  

 

"A&L /* page 2 g  "

WASHINGTON AND LEE UN1VEksI'TY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 20 12

BY THE STUDENTS

AND

FOR THEASTUDTENTS

SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXVI, NUMBER 1

Changing facilities, changing W&L

The 2012-2013 school year arrives with several updates to university facilities and plans for future campus renovations

By Kelly Mae Ross
5 TA F F w R l T E R

Members of the Washington and Lee
community are returning to a slightly updated
campus this fall. The campus will change
even more in the months and years to come.

The University has several renovation
projects lined up, some of which are already
underway.

One of the most noticeable projects
is the multi-year, multi-phase Colonnade
renovation. As of now, work is still being
done on Washington Hall and has already
been completed on Newcomb and Payne
halls.

Tom Kalasky, Director of Capital Projects
at W&L, said the renovation of Washington
Hall is slated for completion by the end of
2012. When the work is done, workers will
move the fencing that is behind the building
to the back of adjacent Robinson Hall.

Work will begin on Robinson in May
2013, after undergraduate commencement.

The Colonnade renovation work includes
“surgically inserting new mechanical and
electrical systems” on the inside of the
buildings, Kalasky said. This includes the
addition of new academic technologies, ﬁre
sprinkler systems and improvements geared
at increasing handicap accessibility.

The work is being paid for, at least in

part, by funds raised through the university’s
$500 million “Honor Our Past, Build Our
Future” capital campaign, launched publicly
in October 2010.

$120.5 million of campaign money has
been slated for physical improvements to
the campus, according to the University’s
website. This includes $50 million for the
Colonnade renovations, $11.5 million for
the construction of a “facility for global
leaming” in a renovated duPont Hall and $50
million for the construction of new indoor
recreation and athletic facilities, according
to the University’s website.

‘Development of community’

Other building projects are also in the
works.

One of these projects is a major renovation
of the Gaines and Graham-Lees residence
halls.

Sidney Evans, Vice President of Student
Affairs and Dean of Students, said the
planned work on Gaines and Graham-Lees
will expand thecapacity of the residence
halls so they will be able to house all first-
year students.

Evans said the University hopes to create
more spaces for studying and socializing
in the buildings to help foster a sense of

community among first-years.

“We feel like right now the ﬁrst-years are
kind of too spread out [in] too many different
facilities,” said Evans.

The ﬁnal plan and budget for the project
have not yet been approved, but Evans said
work is expected to begin in summer 2013
and completed by summer 2015.

Evans said the plan is to make big
changes to the interior of both buildings.
This includes the addition of an elevator and
air-conditioning to Graham-Lees, as well as
upgraded restrooms.

As for Gaines, the interior will basically
be gutted, Evans said.

“lt’s not going to be suite-style anymore,’
she said. “1t’s going to be singles and doubles
with hall baths.”

While many changes are being planned
for the interiors, not much work will be done
to change the buildings’ exteriors.

Evans said the wom-down step leading
into the Graharn-Lees archway, which many
students use to avoid the bad-luck walk
through the center pillars leading to the
archway, will be safe. 1

“Everyone knows that that’s pretty
sacred,” said Evans. “There are some things
you just don’t change.”

9

‘Always doing little things’

While the renovation of ﬁrst-
year residence halls will not begin
until next summer, there is other
work already taking place on
campus.

“We’re always doing little
things,” said Kalasky.

He said most of the work i
being done this year will not
“significantly impact” student
travel around campus.

Some students have already
noticed work being done on the
first ﬂoor of the Telford Science
Library.

The University is building
an “integrative and quantitative
center,” Kalasky said. This “IQ
Center” will include tools such as
scanning electron microscopes and
computer lab equipment.

“It will be a very technology-
rich environment,” Kalasky said.

Materials formerly located
on the first floor of the Science
Library were moved to Leyburn
Library over the summer, Kalasky
said.

Auxiliary  A ‘"1

,—now:  Early

W&L dance   A; 2 S j__ _t
was: in duPont‘ -..   __
now: 10.9 Jefferjsjon  r V

Carnpusi , . .
  was-‘ﬁt Kappajsigml
now: inthe Global‘

  ’Ser:vice’ House ‘
T‘ [forrner-fly§the’. *
.I-House], 1, ‘ ’

..¢

was: in the bdttom '1  .1 

ﬂooriof ‘Comrnons, A
4. jieldin

W&L reins in O-Week nightlife

W&L works with the Lexington Police Department to educate students on good behavior and safety on and oﬂcampus

. By Graham Colton

HEAD COPY EDITOR

In light of the arrests during last year’s
Orientation Week, Washington and Lee
University and the Lexington Police
Department joined forces in anticipation
of this year’s O-Week. Their goal, like
the University’s mission, was that students
conduct themselves with honor, integrity,
and civility.

At the panel, these local authorities
spoke to first-year students “to build a
more collaborative relationship,” said Clay
Coleman, Director of Greek and Residential
Life.

According to Jason Rodocker, Assistant
Dean for the First-Year Experience, “This
[was] late enough for new students to be

“No longer is having this degree enough to be suc-

cessful in life. Employers want to know the content

of your character. ”

Al Thomas, Lexington chief of Police

On Sept. 6, after undergraduate classes
began, there was a Law Enforcement Panel
in the Keller Theatre of the Lenfest Center
for the Arts. The panel to discuss student
conduct included Student Judicial Council
Chair Zach Zoller ’l3, Lexington Chief of
Police A1 Thomas and Rockbridge County
Sheriff Chris Blalock.

somewhat familiar with life in Lexington
and sooner than the panel occurred last year.”
Through this formal introduction,
University administration hoped to forestall
conflict between police and students. Rather
than just enforcing the law and creating issues
with arrests, “law enforcement w§ﬁts"‘to be
seen as a resource, ﬁrst,” said Coleman.

Also through this meeting, the Police
Department sought to prevent arrests by
persuading underage students not to drink.

“We wanted to reach [underage students]
before they violate the law,” said Thomas.

According to Thomas, student behavior
during last year ’s O-Week was not noted for
its honor, integrity, or civility. More than other
years, Thomas said that underage students
consumed hard alcohol and mixed drinks

I en route to dangerously high blood alcohol

levels last year.

Thomas said this heavy alcohol
consumption was “combined with belligerent
behavior toward police officers.” This forced
authorities into an enforcement mode.

At the panel, Thomas noted the importance
of student behavior in the community in
combination with their education at W&L.

“No longer is having this degree enough to
be successful in life. Employers want to know
the content of your character,” said Thomas.

The Lexington Police Department would
prefer to prevent crime than punish it,
according to Thomas. “We don’t want to see
arrest numbers increase,” he said.

Thomas said that arrests will decrease
if students‘ communicate with Lexington
residents to agree on parameters for partying.

“Get out in the community to talk with the
neighbors,” Thomas said. “Talk about your
events, why you’re doing them, when you’re
doing them.”

While students were encouraged to change
how they partied during O-Week, they were
not given less time in Lexington before
classes. The move-in date for Greek housing
remained the same as it has been in previous
years, two days before the start of classes.
‘”That’s something that’s been approved for
the last 15 to 20 years,” Coleman said.

To minimize tiaflic congestion, sorority

and fratemity members moved in after ﬁrst- ‘

year students had ﬁnished doing so, according
to Coleman.

Both W&L and the Police Department
emphasized that underage students themselves
choose to consume alcohol. The blame for
arrests, they said, must fall on none other than
those who break the law.

“If someone decides they’re going to
break the law, and they make that choice...

they have to understand the consequences,”
said Thomas.

Forﬁrst-year students to better understand
the consequences of underage drinking,
they heard from their peers on Residential
Life staff, the Student-Faculty Hearing
Board, Student Judicial Council and the
Executive Committee on Sept. 2 at the Student
Governance Orientation in Lee Chapel.

“Putting the EC, SJC, SFHB and RA
leadership in front of new students so early
on in their time here emphasizes the role of
student self-govemance in developing and
maintaining honor, integrity, and civility in our
campus community,” said Rodocker.

As a whole, W&L may not have a serious
drinking problem, according to Thomas. A
full 15 to 18 percent of students abstain ﬁ"om
alcohol. Last year’s O-Week controversy
arose from the actions of only 15 to 20
students, Thomas said.

To those 15 to 20 individuals and many
others, Thomas issued a challenge.

“Alcohol is very prevalent [at] Washington
and Lee University," Thomas said. “1 think
you’re better than that.”

The Colonnade buildings aren’t the only ones getting renovated in the near future. 5

Universi  

lWYV.*."R.‘§ITY LIBRARY

 

 

t-’i LEE Ul‘lI‘£ERSI'iY

LExIé*ir;“ssN, VA 24450
SP0 1. 22912

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

The Ring-tum Phi’s

EEETEEE TE?)

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012

K‘;

Whether you ’re a disoriented ﬁrst—year or a tenured professor, letlus Show you the best
0f Lexington in our 2012 back-to-school guide.

   

iea/J5‘ I/0J5U!l{5‘«‘-"/id

West Denny C/1-5-/5:

Alumni Field
Alumni House
Baker Dorm
Cadaver Bridge
Campus Services
. Davis Dorm
Doremus Gym
Duchossis Tennis
Center
9 DuPont Hall
10 Early-Fielding Building
11 Elrod Commons
12 Evans Dining Hall
13 Fairfax Lounge
14Gaines Dorm
15 Gilliam Admissions
House '
16Gilliam Dorm
17 Graham-Lees Dorm
18 Howe Annex

®\lO'\U'I-blﬂlv-4

19 Howe Hall
20 Lee Chapel

21 Lee House

22 Lee—Jackson House
23 Lenfest Center

24 Leyburn Library

25 Liberty Hall

26 Liberty Hall Fields
27 Morris House

28 Newcomb Hall

29 Outing Club House
30 Parmly Hall

31 Payne Hall

32 Reeves Center

33 Reid Hall

34 Robinson Hall

35 Science Center

36 Soccer/LAX Stadium
37 Student Activities

Pavilion
38 Sydney Lewis Hall

39 Tennis Courts

40 Tucker Hall

41 Warner Center

42 Washington Hall

43 Watson Pavilion

44 Williams School

45 Wilson Field

46 Woods Creek
Apartments

Restaurants

48 Bistro on Main

50 Lexington Coffee Shop
51 Salerno’s

52 Sheridan Livery .

53 Southern Inn

54 Sweet Things

56 Blue Sky Bakery

57 The Palms

Downtow

59 The Post Ofﬁce

60 Lexington
Presbyterian Church

63 Pap.aga||o

64 Pumpkinseeds

65 Movie Theater

66 R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church

67 St. Patrick's Catholi

Church '
69 Town & Country
Cleaners
70 Trinity United
Methodist Church
71 University Cleaners

Sororities

72 Chi Omega

73 Kappa Alpha Theta
74 Kappa Delta

       

75 Kappa Kappa Gamma
76 Pi Beta Phi
85 Alpha Delta Pi

Fraternities

77 Beta Theta Pi

78 Chi Psi

79 Kappa Alpha

80 Kappa Sigma

81 Lambda Chi

82 Phi Delta Theta
83 Phi Gamma Delta
84 Phi Kappa Psi

86 Pi Kappa Alpha
87 Pi Kappa Phi

88 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
89 Sigma Chi

90 Sigma Nu

91 Sigma Phi Epsilon

C9

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 ’ ' 3 ~ THE RING-TUM PHI '

  

How to getthere

   

. Buena Vista- Take US-60 East . V
o (Nelson St) past Kroger, Taco Bell, 0
: etc. approximately6 miles. Turn right :.

. onto Beech Avenue (US-501) .
O O
: Goshen- Take 11-North out of Lex :
. toward Fairfield.-Turn left onto Route 0 ‘
: 39. Follow Route 39 to Goshen Pass. :

: Safari Park/Natural Bridge- Take I-81 :
0 toward Roanoke. At Exit 180-B turn 9
: left onto the ramp (US-11 Natural :
. Bridge/Glasgow). Follow the signs. 0
O O
: Roanoke Airport- Take I-81 toward 2
o Roanoke. Take Exit 143 onto 0
° Interstate 581 (220 South). Take °
3 Exit 3-E (Hershberger Rd). Get into:
0 the far left lane. Take the Aviation 0
: Drive Exit. Get into far left lane again. :
, The airport terminal entrance is the .
0 second left.   o
O - O
: Walmart- Take Main St. out of Lex :
0 (past VMI) until you see all the 0
: freeway overpasses. lt’s past them :
. on the left side. You can't miss that .
: monstrosity.

 
     
   
  
 

  
  
  
 

     

: Lynchburg- Take Route 60 East .
0 (towards the fraternity houses and 0
: Kroger) untilyou make it into Buena :
0 Vista. Take a right at the light onto 0
0 Route 501 (Beech Avenue). Stay 0
: on Route 501 through Buena Vista :
o and through the first part of the o
0 mountains. Stay straight onto Route 0
: 130 instead of crossing the James 3
0 River .on Route 501. Take this until 

you hit a stoplight across from the '

shopping center. Take a right on :

this road and it will take you into
: Lynchburg.

  
     

  
 
  

Staunton- Take I-81 North until exit 3
220. Follow the signs into Staunton. :

O O
Hull’s Drive In- Get onto Route 11 o
_ North. After 3.7 miles Hull’s Drive-In :
. will be on the left. .
O
' Foamhenge- Follow the directions to :
Natural Bridge. It will be on the right .
after getting onto Route 11. 0

Eezée; 'a ax!  

"Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

      

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA TBuffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - ‘Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

. ' .. , ',—_‘.3"-‘t ..,._?'._:  ‘g  7. -,. - , ‘ ’ —.  -'.I1=_';
’ 

Traveller: (540) 458 - 8900 1 A

. Public Safety: (540) 458 - 8999

2 Student Health Center: (540) 458 - 8401

: Stonewall Jackson Hospital: (540) 458 - 3568  
- Lexington Police: (540) 462 - 3702

Domino’s: (540) 433 - 3111
: Hong Kong [Chinese]: (540) 464 - 1688
; Sa|erno’s [Italian]: (540) 464 - 5757

   

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450_

540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online

-  Twitter @berkysfood   Find us on Face book

  

 

 

       
      
   
 
      
       
      
       
      
     
      
  
 

   
   
 
     
   
    
   
 
   
   
   

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI - . MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012

h   at’_s    
a pemng 
this Week   

 Playinlg in Stackhouse:  
 T e Avengers 

 favorite things” continued from page 3

iallufakeout? i5i»8"3ZI?-’ Sal
ay  d_e‘licgious% I ltaAlia  
entsi Iookjingito;goi,,outr  __a
§.‘,,.if.\aht,th'l,9 c0UiﬁieTs,ri3 hdrelias‘  e 
ourtable, so yougrdo -Shot havejtb 
eirge group of people.~Salerno’ss
jzzastoltalian sahdwichesand;s a
aniecasy Walk fromtcampus. You 
coming down West Washingtonst.

   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 

looks down.

 baekwoods T  
inceria .yrallway, theTrail was Jo, at       
riyvalley-~in119,69,:when_theV gr      ‘   T9d‘W . _

nu and transformed:itsintoth . i   I 7    S”"’Sh’"g ‘he M"~°h’”e" The
galongthev Creek’.   Troubled Legacy of Kantorozicz is

 - -’ “ ‘ I   -  F  kampf’symposia all day at Sydney
Lewis Hall and Elrod Commons.

    

    
   
     
       
     
    
    
   
  
     
     
     
    
  
 
    
       
      

is
2

 

he Trail attractsjjoggersg and gslght     I    , T 077701” 7” OW‘
 t0 the public, With aCCeSS  ” 7 «  ': L"  Auditions for W&L Dance
I  Repertory Company from

 e Woods ,CreekgApa rtments, 
 I I ‘  5 I‘ ' 4:40pm-8pm in Keller Theater.

Mock Trial Meeting at 7pm in
Huntley 221. V

Chess Club Meeting at 8 pm in
Leyburn.

Wednesday-

E  Lexington Farmers Market from
8am-12:30pm on Jeﬂerson St.

Pre-law information session at

 5pm in Huntley 32 7.

Osteopathic Medical School

 
 

wo words: FALL-YOU-CAN-EAT FRO-
,-Hall was good, then you've gottoji
ifferent rotating flavors andlcountl;e;j
ombinations to ysatisfy any tastebu
kevanilla and peanut buttertothei
hd Jolly Rancher fruit punch, the pi ,
iu’re’craving a fruity treat (ma   _
ch indu:lgence(mmm... red velvet;»oakf
here?s something for everyone.t,rS I 
 its totally-cool to-spendlr$ 

  

      
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
    
   
  

  

    

  

iatochsa movie, Greasersty|e.:,rB ti  _ _ _
la; ‘ha||ma‘rk_' ohf,Lexl'ngtongu   Admissions session from 5pm-
         6-'30Pm i'"Parm’y 307-

3iiiiiﬂwtthat.fin;:i2O.    ,’  f   ;-‘if Womenis Soccer game at 4-'00
=ngels,*’~ effectively ?reotned tn thea, ~   pm-

edayyt Hull’s ,"iDriVG'lint Theatre    

ashioned charm, ,offeringrgba"ckgto:,:  
riday, Saturday, alndisundayeveni
ree for childrenill andlunder

  

 
 

 Thursday-
 F ive-Star Festival Weekend
‘-9 begins at Lee‘ Chapel.
SAIL Ice Cream Social from 5pm-
5 6pm in Commons Living Room.
Carol Graham Public Lecture '
ﬁ'om 5 :3 0pm- 7pm in Stackhouse
Theater.

F riday- .
Hall of Fame Weekend begins on I

campus. ‘ 

g Shabbat Shalom at 6pm in Hillel

House.
Volleyball game at 5:30 pm.

  

  

   

at Just for Health-Consciousl,Hil
uggested I Pure“*Eats for dinner, I ha 
‘lining. Afterall, anyrestaurant    
,ithf‘Pure” in its name,;ouighttol beise
fith organiclettuce and-in—seasoj   
rix if you wa,ntthattypeofprnea;l.—   I
 one of the best at that, 
even the veggiecionesl) arefresh, a
potato) are ,o“h-so-tasty.‘ And ‘ did 
ilaple Bacon,?Chai,tand the_Clas io
arijeties niadefresh-thesbestipic

  

  

    
     
      
      
       
    
      
 
     
    
      
 
       
         
   
     
       
 

   

 all  Beforer,GeorgeW
;&L was kenownas Liberty Hall, 
atriotismltheyearithat the_pe,claratisi‘i
hough theschoollburned down

Saturday-

Rockbridge Pie Festival from
I2pm- 7:30pm on Brewbaker Field
Chaise Lounge playing at Lime

Kiln at 7:30 pm. .

_ Bird Identiﬁcation Walk from
8am-10am at Chessie trailhead on
Old Buena Vista Road.

Field hockey game at 2:30 pm.
Football game at 7.‘ 00 pm.
Volleyball tourney at 11:00 am.



, _us]:are still as staplieifor
un,.stargazing0n a clear night or
a5king ini the outdoors, iyou’ll   he s

tOggryq   y   % _  

  

 
 

 then the nearest Starbucks is   I, 
rdinlance that won’t,aIIow- franch' 
5310* 5C dOWFltowniIL9Xlh,8t0lL;ih0   ‘
,9 IIOHS-sleeves and tra nsitiosnitoi 
atte are just out ofjluckl. .Lexringto 7
ough to make up for our troubles-.
mpus on Washington,St,,iLe>§Co’ 

  

 Sunday-

 Lower Gauley Whitewater
 _ _ _ .. C  Rafting Tri'p.

    Erev Rosh Hashanah Dinner at
II, making l -the erfectp   ,
luckyIike;me;,meetlyou pri _  _   I  5-'3”’”’ ’,’”“-i

    ,          

origyourownpersona   ‘ 7  I

 

  OPINIONS / page 3  

It's alt qredzto me!

Margaret Leer dives into the mysterious ,
world of Panhellenic and IFC.

A8lL/ page 6

  

    WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2 0 12

New rankings
place W&L high

Forbes, U.S. News and
Alumni Factor rate W&L

By Hamlet Fort
STAFF WRITE R

In July 2012, Forbes Magazine released their annu-
al rankings of the top colleges and universities across
the country. About three months later, U.S. News and
World Report released their highly anticipated list,
published on Sept. 12. Forbes placed Washington and
Lee University #15 in their overall national rankings
and #1 overall in their list for Colleges in the South.
In U.S. News and World Report’s list, W&L is #14
overall for liberal arts colleges.

W&L is consistently ranked highly in annual lists
of colleges and universities that analyze an institu-
tion’s overall performance, but other rankings exist in

“We ’re not really experts on the
various rankings and their method-
ologies. T hat would be a full time
job, and with so many different lists
and rankings, admissions doesn’t

try to keep track of them all. ”

Jonathan Webster, Dean of Admissions

smaller sub-categories.

According to The Alumni Factor, a new college
ranking platform that proclaims itself as “A Revolu-
tion in College Rankings,” W&L is also #1 in alumni
overall happiness and career success after graduation,
beating out schools like Yale, Stanford and Dartmouth.
These rankings are based purely on the career success
of a col1ege’s graduates based on income, job oppor-
tunities, intellectual development, and overall happi-
ness. Other, similarly speciﬁc rankings exist as well.

W&L is ranked #46 in “contributions to the public
good,” according to Washington Monthly, and is also
ranked #66 in research development. Kiplinger, the
Washington, D.C.-based ﬁnancial advice and business
forecast publisher, ranks W&L #2 overall in “Best Val-
ue for Private Colleges," based on the high graduation
rate (91.7%) and success after graduation. This\rank-
ing is consistent with the Alumni Factor ranking, and
W&L has been steadily rising in the rankings since
last decade.

The W&L Admissions Olﬁcc doesn’t pay much at-
tention to the rankings. Jonathan Webster, Associate
Dean ofAdmission‘s, doesn’t believe the rankings tell
us anything we didn’t already know about W&L.

“We’re not really experts on the various rankings
and their methodologies. That would be a full time
job, and with so many different lists and rankings, Ad-
missions doesn’t try to keep track of them all,” said
Webster.

“We’re always pleased ‘to be recognized as the
great school we are, though,” he added.

Webster also doesn’t necessarily claim that the
rankings impact the number of applicants in a given
year. The applicant pool fluctuates year-to-year, he
says, and the Admissions Ofﬁce can’t track how the
impressive rankings affect the group.

Despite W&L’s recent success in the rankings, Web-
ster said the rankings tend to be subjective. Webster says
he and his colleagues don’t know how the rankings are
calculated, and in fact, no one really does. Therefore,
the rankings can be taken for as much as they are - just
a list. »

BY THE

STUDENTS

AND

FOR THE STUDE

NTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXVI, NUMBER 2

Pass/fail goes electronic

Electronic pass/faildeclaration means less coordination with students and professors

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WR_1TER

Completing a course on a pass/fail
grading system is a viable, although
typically unpopular option for up-
perclassmen of Washington and Lee.
The process of declaring a pass/fail
grade was updated for the 2012-2013
academic year.

In the past, students declared the
pass/fail grade in paper form, re-
quiring signatures from the student,
instructor and academic adviser, ac-
cording to wluedu. The declaration
process will now be conducted elec-
tronically.

According to University Registrar
Director Mr. Scott Dittman, the tran-
sition from a paper to a digital decla-
ration is simpler and faster.

Dittman said: “While the paper
form did enforce face-to-face contact
between the student and the instruc-
tor, it makes more sense to send the
pass/fail declaration directly to the
instructor online. Students will now
spend less time trying to coordinate a
meeting with the instructor.”

According to wlu.edu, under the
pass/fail declaration section, students
will ﬁnd a list of all of their classes
for the given term. Courses that have
the option of a pass/fail grade will
appear with a check box and a green
message stating that pass/fail may be
declared for the course.

Although the pass/fail declaration
process was adjusted, the grading
policy remains the same. According
to wlztedu, pass/fail grading is only
available for upperclassmen and
is limited to elective courses. The
course may not be an FDR require-
ment or a course required for a stu-
dents major. 1

Despite the possibility of taking
a pass/fail course, very few students
elect to do so. The University Reg-
istrar records indicate that between

the fall terms of 2005 and 2011, the
highest number of students taking a
course on a pass/fail grade was 252,
in 2009. The lowest number was 57
students, recorded in 2008.

According to Dittman, the data is
largely affected by INTR-201, an in-
formation technology literacy course
that is required for all Williams
School majors and is only offered on
a pass/fail grade. Dittman attributed
the low 2008 number to the fact that
INTR-201 was not taught during the
fall term that year.

As an institution, W&L maintains
varying views on the possibility to
participate in a course with a pass/
fail grade. Philosophy Professor Paul
Gregory rarely permits students to
enroll in his classes using the pass/
fail system.

“I usually tell students that they
are not allowed to take my courses on
a pass/fail grade because I feel that
they are telling me that they are pri-
oritizing my course lower than their
other courses,” Gregory said.

Gregory was led to this conclu-
sion after a few students took his log-
ic course on a pass/fail grade. In one
situation, a student neglected every
assignment and paper for the course.
After failing, he approached Gregory
and explained that he couldn’t gradu-
ate without passing, but at that point
it was too late to reprioritize the work.

Gregory also had a student who
took his logic course on a pass/fail
grade, but would have otherwise re-
ceived an A for the term. While the
student did pass, an issue can arise
when applying for graduate school
and jobs. Most business profession-
als and graduate schools must fairly
weigh a pass/fail grade across all col-
leges and universities and do so by
awarding the minimum grade, a D-.

Students on the pass‘/fail grading .s'y.s'te/71 during the_ fall

terms of20()5—2()I I

252

*II .\/IHll/(/ /we nu/yd I/ml I/I/'\ 4/um i.\' .\’kc\u’l/ /‘_l' //it’ l.\ Tl\’—_’Il/ ("uitrxu I/ml ix /u/Iii/L-z//or all ll’/'//ilmm

SL‘ll(IlI/ /ing/'ur.\‘. and it UI1/A1‘ _ui\'i'H Ll />m'.\V/[Ii/ glut/L’. T/lL'l‘L'/(“II'L'. in _’/W\'_ //IL’ /ll/Ill/TU].I!//7ll\\>/LII’_Q/'1/lfL’\
i.\' mm’/I /uircr /lL.'L’UI(\'l' //IL‘ rm//'.\'z-' In/.\' not r:t/t’It'i/ in //IL’ /u// IUI'/I7.

“Overall, I feel that the pass/fail
system means grading a student on
a different level of standards and
throws off the dynamic for the stu-
dent and sometimes the professor,”
Gregory said.

The reason some faculty members
may support a pass/fail grading sys-
tem relates to the philosophy ofa lib-

eral arts education. “Having the abil-
ity to explore all over the curriculum
at a liberal arts college is especially
important and pass/fail grading acts
as a parachute for students who have’
a genuine interest in a subjectmatter,
but less time to focus on it,” said Dit-
tman.

First-year students try to avoid

“Graham-Lees Disease”

The new environment increases coughs, colds and viruses for incoming students

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

With coughs and sneezes heard
throughout campus, W&L’s student
body can be assured that school is
back in session.

“Any time that students have been
away and then come back is a peak
time [for illnesses]... becausepeople
have been to different places and
been exposed to different things,”
said Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Stu-
dent Health and Counseling Services.

in fact, a prime example of the

health dangers of changed environ-
ments occurred a few weeks ago.
“We did have an outbreak on one
of the Appalachian adventure trips,”
said Horton. “Someone who had
been sick was just getting over [a
gastrointestinal] illness, and then it
spread to several other people on the
trip.” The decision was made to end
the trip once the illness spread.
Although school medics were un-
sure, they suspected an illness known

as the Noro virus.

Aside from this particular strand
of disease, other medical issues are
more common at this time of year.

“We have a lot of people with al-
lergy symptoms because they are
coming from a different environ-
ment,” said Horton.

Grass pollen and ragweed are very
common at this time of the year, ac-
cording to Horton.

Horton added that pollen levels
have actually been especially high
the past few weeks.

“We are [also] seeing a lot of viral
upper-respiratory infections,” Horton
said.

First-year Anna Russell Thornton
was a victim of such illness.

“Being in close proximity to tons
of other people with totally new
germs certainly made it much easier
to get sick,” said Thornton.

“Most of these things are transmit-

ted through coughing and sneezing,
or germs on surfaces from cough-
ing and sneezing, [sharing] food and
drinks,” said Horton.

While we all know the typical sug-
gestions to prevent disease, such as
washing our hands, Horton presented
a challenge to the student body.

“The simple things work,” said
Horton. “The challenge is doing
them.”

There are a few suggestions to
boost our immune systems that many
of us overlook. For ﬁrst-years in a
new environment, this advice can
come in handy when trying to avoid

the “Graham-Lees Disease.”

“Make sure you are getting plenty
of fruits and vegetables to get Vi-
tamin C and other nutrients,” said
Horton. She added that without the
recommended 7 to 9 hours of sleep
for college students, immunity may
suffer.

“Alcohol can [also] play a role
in suppressing the immune system,”
said Horton.

Although W&L’s party scene
might thus be a factor in the spread of
illness, the academic atmosphere has
its role as well.

“I think that one of the stresses
here is the idea that even if you are
sick you need to go to class to keep

"up academically,” conjectured Hor-

ton.

However, she spoke on behalf of
the health department when she ad-
vised the student body.

Horton said, “We ask that if any-
one has a fever over 100.5, they stay
home from class. We ask that they
stay 3 feet away from people when
they are coughing and sneezing and
use ‘respiratory etiquette’vcough
into your elbow, cover your cough
with a tissue, throw it away, wash
your hands.”

On the bright side, ﬁrst-years
jumping in to a new environment
might be beneﬁting from the change.

“It has also motivated me to
take charge of my own health,” said
Thornton. “Here, 1 said, ‘It’s all me,
so I have to take care of myself.’”

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

wAsHiiic‘ToN 81 use UNIVERSITY

   

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2012

533192012

 

 

Seniors get “future” guidance

Career Development Oﬂice

By Kelly Mae Ross
STAFF WRITER

Abigail Horne wants to go to law
school, but she ‘attended a recent job
Search information session in Stackhouse
Theater just in case plans change. Home
said she isn’t ruling out getting a job after
graduation because she doesn’t have an
LSAT score yet.

“It’s a cover-all-bases-gesture,” said
the senior English and Classics double
major.

Home was one of about 70 seniors
who attended the information session
hosted by Washington and Lee’s Career
Development Center, formerly known as
Career Services. The Development Cen-
ter will host a series of other events about
graduate school applications, internships
and ﬁnding jobs.

The Development Center also offers
daily services from its ofﬁce located on
the top floor of Elrod Commons for stu-
dents of any year. These include resume
and cover letter critiques and practice in-
terviews.

Last year, more than half the students
in the graduating class of 2012 either had
or were looking for a job when they re-
ceived their diploma. About 36 percent
of the graduating class had a fulltime job
in-hand, and an additional 24 percent of

the class was seeking employment at that
time, according to a survey conducted by
the Development Center last academic
yean

Kimberly "Phillips, assistant director .

of the Career Development Center, said
she expects the number of members of
the Class of 2012 who have found work
to jump to about 60 percent when the
class is re-surveyed toward the end of the
calendar year.

These senior surveys are conducted
every year and the numbers have been
consistent over time, even through the
recession, Phillips said.

Some current seniors have already
gone to the Development Center for help
in the past few weeks, but Phillips said
most students shouldn’t be nervous if
they haven’t started searching and ap-
plying for jobs yet. The hiring periods
are different for employers in different
industries, said Phillips.

“It’s all about when employers are de-
termining what their needs are going to
be,-” Phillips said. This happens at dif-
ferent times during the year for different
industries, she added.

For example, fall is the time when em-
ployers in the ﬁnance ﬁeld begin hiring,

but many employers in public relations
and advertising don’t begin hiring until

after graduation in May, Phillips said
Even ~ ' 
though
there may i
be fewer
job oppor-
tunities for
recent col-
lege grads 3
than there 
used to be,
Phillips ' :
said the   3'
consisten- ‘E
cy of the
senior sur-
vey results
over the
past sev-
eral years ~
give her
conﬁdence
that the
Class of 
2013 will ” '
be able to H
ﬁnd jobs.
“I think

 

oﬂers information sessions to seniors seeking jobs after graduation

the seniors in 2013, they want to work
hard and they want to be successful,” she

said.

Can money buy happiness?

Dr. Carol Graham discusses how public policy, money and technology inﬂuence happiness

By Graham Colton
STA F F w R IT E R
Dr. Carol Graham delivered a lecture
called “Happiness Around the World:
Happy Peasants, Miserable Millionaires,
and Questions for Public Policy,” on
Sept. 13. A Senior Fellow at the Brook-

 

Dr. Carol Graham lectures in the
“Questioning the Good Life” seminar

ings Institution and College Park Pro-

fessor at the University of Maryland’s
School of Public Policy, Graham spoke
on the complex relationship between
public policy and happiness.

Happy people, she said, are in good

health, perform well in the labor market, ~

and participate in democracies. Less
happy people, on the other hand, are hap-
py only because of their friends, family,
and religion.

Graham also said that it is not govern-
ment’s job to make more people smile.
However, she said, “I do think that na-
tional policy should give people more
options for what they want to do with
their lives.”

Economists have been studying hap-
piness for about ten years now, according
to Graham. During this time, research
has focused on the relationship between
money and well-being. “Some individu-
als who are destitute report to be happy,”
Graham said, “while others who are very
wealthy are miserable.”

On average, people in wealthier coun-
tries are happier than people in poorer
ones.‘ For example, when the ﬁnancial
crisis of 2008 occurred, average national
happiness levels fell eleven percent.

Graham said that people adapt to their
environments to become happier in them.
Once in her own life, Graham was un-
happy because she had not adapted to
her environment. In a safe section of
Washington, D.C., Graham’s tires were
stolen. Since Graham had not adapted
to the crime of her environment, Graham
became unhappy. If her tires had been
stolen in Lima, Peru, Graham said, she
would not have been as unhappy because
she would have had already adapted to
the crime of her environment.

As Graham exempliﬁed, one is
more bothered by crime and corruption
if they are less prevalent around oneself.
Conversely, one is less bothered by crime
and corruption if they are more prevalent
around oneself.

Graham did not want to over-
look money’s role in happiness. “More
money. . . gives people agency and capac-
ity to control their lives more,” said Gra-
ham.

Not only are the rich happier than the

poor, they are also happier for a longer

time than the poor. “Experienced or he-
donic utility correlates much less closely
with income than does evaluative or eu-

daimonic utility, both in the United States
and around the world,” said Graham.

People who have access to the Inter-
net are on average happier than those
who do not. This is most true for women
in countries with unequal gender rights.
“The Internet,” Graham said, “is an
anonymousiway for women to have con-
nections to the outside world that they
otherwise cannot have.”

As the ﬁrst of six visiting speakers in
the Questioning the Good Life seminar
series, Graham kicked off a year-long,
University-wide colloquium on happi-
ness. Future speakers include a philoso-
phy professor, sociologist, and business-
man.

Derek Barisas ’ 13 was excited to con-
tinue the discussion on economics and
happiness, saying, “As a student leader
of the seminar series, I [was] particu-
larly excited for the lunch meeting [the
day after the lecture]. I think we had a
more personal atmosphere just to voice
our questions that arose during her pre-
sentation.”

Global
News

By Hannah Howard
STA_FF WRITER

Anti-Islam videos continue
to affect the safety of Ameri-
cans.

The Anti-Islam videos that
sparked controversy and violent re-
sponse continue to affect the United
States and its citizens. In the wake
of attacks and anti-American unrest,

. United States officials have ordered
non-essential government workers
and their families to evacuate Tuni-
sia and Sudan. The threat level con-
tinues in a critical state as the Sudan
government attempts to block the
activities of terrorist organizations.

Spanish bailout prevention
backﬁres

The Spanish govemment’s at-
tempt to prevent ﬁnancial bailout has
backﬁred with the people of Madrid.
New policies designed to decrease
spending and increase taxes are be-
ing met with great resistance. Over
10,000 people attended the rally in
Madrid, many of whom were bussed
in from surrounding towns.

Dutch Liberal Party con-
siders coalition with Labour
Party

After a close election in the
Netherlands, the Dutch Liberal Party
has come out on top. They gained
the most votes in the history of the
party. However, representatives stat-
ed on Friday that talks have stayed
focused on the idea of forming a co-
alition with the Labour Party. Many
oﬂicials have also suggested incor-
porating other smaller parties, such
as the Socialists, Liberal Democrats
D66 and Christian Democrats.

Gambia death sentences
halted
Thirty-seven inmates who had
been sentenced to die in Gambia had
their sentences halted on Saturday.
Gambia’s President Yahya Jammeh
chose to suspend their executions in
an attempt to prevent violent crime
rates from rising in the country.
This decision was also a response to
many activist groups’ reaction to the
executions in Gambia last month.

Ukraine EU membership
unlikely
The_ Ukraine’s prospect of be-
coming a member of the European
Union is looking grim. On Friday,
EU officials told the Ukraine that
they would not be granted member-
ship as long as former Prime Min-
ister Yulia Tymoshenko is in prison.
In October of last year, Tymoshenko
was imprisoned by the country’s
new leadership. The charges includ-
ed abuse of ofﬁce, however Tymosh-
enko is denying all claims.

W&L seeks change in master plan for Lee-Jackson House

Lexington Planning Committ

By Yejean Kim

s TA F F w R IT E R
A public hearing on Thursday at the
Rockbridge County Administrative Of-
ﬁces decided whether an application sub-

Built in 1842, the Lee-Jackson House sits between the Lee House and the Morris House, back-

mitted by Washington and Lee to change
its Master Plan would be approved to go
before City Council.

If approved, the amendment in con-
sideration would allow W&L to use
the Lee-Jackson House for office and

residential use, speciﬁcally as a dean’s
office. Currently, W&L’s Master Plan
states that the house is for faculty resi-
dential use.

Originally built in 1842 for the Uni-
versity’s president, the Lee-Jackson

if ‘ House was later converted into offices.

lng Graham-Lees. The University hopes to make this historic landmark more accessible.

Most recently it was a residence for the

'_ Vice President of Student Affairs.

Lexington’s Planning Commission
presided over the meeting. Also in at-
tendance were Steve McAllister, Tom
Contos and John Hoogakkes, Execu-
tive Director of University facilities.

Contos, W&L’s architect and uni-
versity planner, stated in a previous
email that the change was “minor.”

McAllister, W&L’s Treasurer and
Vice President of Finance, said the
change would constitute a “relatively
modest renovation,” and would not
have a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial impact on
the University.

However, according to Michael D.
Zehner, director of Lexington’s depart-
ment of Planning and Development,
public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council are “re-
quired prior to action on a request to
amend the University’s Master Plan.”
Zehner went on to state at the meeting
his recommendation that the motion be
approved.

As the applicant, Contos was called
upon to address the commission. In a

ee discusses W&L is plan to use the historic Lee-Jackson house as a dean 3 oﬁice

previous email, Contos said the house is
a “National Historic Landmark” and us-
ing it as a “dean’s office” would “allow
students and other visitors to experience
a historic campus building that has been
private space for the last decade.”

The changes would also “free up
space in the newly renovated Washing-
ton Hall for faculty and student use,”
said Contos. At the meeting he also said
that this usage would cause “less wear
and tear” onthe house.

The application eventually gained
approval to go before City Council, but
there was a short debate after it was ap-
proved. Planning Committee member
Camille Miller questioned the effective-
ness of the overall bureaucratic proce-
dure concerning Master Plan amend-
ments, asking if it was “serving the city
well.”

Zehner also questioned the process’
efficiency and said that an “ordinance
change” concerning the Master Plan
would be more useful.

As a result of the debate, a motion
was submitted to forward to City Council
an endorsement of a change in the zon-
ing ordinance, with reference to W&L’s
Master Plan. This motion was approved.

The next public hearing concerning
the Lee-Jackson House is scheduled for
Thursday, Sept. 20, before City Council,
and will decide if the amendment will
pass.

 

 

M0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

opinions  

 

Drunkorexia

Managing Editor Julianna Satterly describes a campus phenomenon and how to ﬁx it

By Julianna _Satter|y
MANAGING EDITOR

It would be easy to write my ﬁrst
editorial about the new image of the
Phi, but there are more important issues
on campus than the status of the school
newspaper. Instead, since this is my ﬁrst
crack at the frosh, I want to focus on a
different image. It is not a well-covered
secret that this campus exudes a
certain... image. Men and women alike
feel the same pressure to dress, act, and
look a very speciﬁc way. Don’t believe
me? Look around when you walk
to your classes. But it’s not just the
pressure to dress the same way that we
feel here. The pressure to stay thin is a
nationwide epidemic that coexists with
our revulsion to rising obesity statistics.
Throw in tongue-in-cheek jibes about
the “Freshman l5” and we are all led in
the same direction: thin is in.

College students go to some scary
lengths to stay skinny. I could talk for
hours about eating disorders on this
campus, but there will soon be a ﬂurry
of brightly colored ﬂyers in all the
common restrooms from the fantastic
organization LIFE, that will advise y’all
of their dangers. I don’t want to steal
their thunder. My beef is with the even

l 

roject

   

i u.

Barbie’s proportions p

        

ed onto a “normal” woman. Impossible-to

achieve role models like Barbie only exacerbate modern cultural ideals.

scarier issue that plods right along,
unseen, at our tiny school where social
drinking is the norm: Drunkorexia. I see

it every day at Srat Lunch when girls
grab a plate full of salad and nothing
else. I live it when I pick someone up

off the ﬂoor. Drunkorexia is not an
ofﬁcially-recognized disease, and yet
almost 20 percent of college students
suffer from the compulsive need to
“save up” the day’s calorie rations for
alcohol at night. That’s one in ﬁve.
It’s a seriously simple thought

process to fall into. To stay a certain
weight, an average person who
exercises must eat about 1300 calories
per day. A can of Natty Light has 95
calories; a screwdriver in a Solo ‘cup
has 375 calories; each shot of Absolut
sits at about 69. It adds up pretty fast
if you assume an average drinking
night runs from about 8 pm to 1 am.

. That means if you only have 1300

calories a day, and you’re going to use
900 calo'ies on a Friday night (even
drinking responsibly), you only have

a few hundred calories to squander for
meals. Not only is it dangerous to eat so
little, but low energy wreaks havoc on
a tolerance. Downing a couple of shots

' on low energy drastically increases your

BAC. Get to a BAC of0.3 and
you’ll slip into a coma. You may
not wake up. Ever.

Fall term is a big party term

Rooms for improvement

Sophomore Neil Haggerty discusses the pending Gaines and Graham-Lees remodels

By Neil Haggerty
N E w s E D I T o R

As ﬁrst—year students moved into
their dorm rooms this fall, they learned
that this is the last year that ﬁrst—year
students will be living in Davis, Gaines,
Gilliam and Graham-Lees residence‘
halls as they are today. All future
ﬁrst-year students will live in either a
renovated Graham-Lees or a completely
gutted and transformed hall-style
Gaines. With this decision comes a lot
of frustration from students, especially
those living in the current suite-style
Gaines Hall.

While some students argue that
ﬁrst-years should have an option to live
in a more quiet and secluded suite-style
dorm, the new ﬁrst-year dorm plan
offers a consistent experience for all

incoming students.

Gaines, in its current layout, breaks
students into small groups of four or
ﬁve and separates them from the rest
of the students living in the other suites
in their halls. This setup limits social
interaction between suites and takes
away the larger group “hall bonding”
experiences available to students in
Davis, Gilliam and Graham-Lees.

It is much more diﬁicult for
introverted students living in the current
Gaines setup to branch out of their
suites. Because the halls connecting the
suites are long and dark, students are
less likely to congregate and socialize
outside of their suites.

While there is a game room in

Gaines, it is located at the comer of

the building and may be too large to
facilitate the close relations that Davis,
Gilliam and Graham-Lees offer in halls
of 10 people in close proximity of each
other. ’ '

living in this building. The rest of the
students in the hall are upperclassmen.
When all of the ﬁrst-year students

are living together in ﬁrst-year-only
housing, it will be much easier to create
a ﬁrst-year community that includes the

“The plan to renovate the ﬁrst—year dorm is a step in

the right direction in fostering aﬁrst—year class com-

munity. ”

On top of the separation created
between the suites in Gaines Hall, there
are also only 80 ﬁrst-year students

entire ﬁrst-year class.
All students should have the
opportunity to make a fresh start

1

here, and the pressure for everyone to
drink is enormous. So much so that
only 10 percent of students abstain
throughout the year [2012 statistics].
I’m not telling you not to drink, because
that would be wasted breath. I’m just
asking you to eat well during the day.

’ If you’re so concerned about calories,

don’t drink at night. Or better yet,

drink water. But the combination of
calorie rationing and alcohol is a deadly
combination. According to one study,
Drunkorexia contributes signiﬁcantly to
short- and long-term cognitive problems
including difﬁculty concentrating,
studying and making decisions. Armed
with the facts we can drastically reduce
the number of occupied beds in the
Health Center on any given party night.
First-years, I know it’s easy to get
sucked into the fervor of W&L life. I
also know that you scored above a 1970
on your SATs. Y’all have a brain. Use
it.

For more in/ormcrlion. or to get
help, ('()l7f(lCl the Sn/dent Health

Center at (5 4 U) 45 8-84 ()1

 

in college and be a part of a new
community. By giving all ﬁrst-year
students a comfortable hall-style '
experience, with common rooms in
each hall, the university is allowing all
new students the same opportunity to
meet the same number of people in the
exact same setting as everyone else.
The plan to renovate the ﬁrst—year

dorm is a step in the right direction in
fostering a ﬁrst—year class community.
The close-knit hall-style dorms with
common rooms will facilitate a more
social community and will bring the
consistency needed for every ﬁrst-year
dorm experience.

With the nationwide lack organization will write on excuse. It is an election year,
‘ of intelligable discourse
in political debate, W&L

College Democrats and

topics from public policy it is your country, and it is

to medical marijuana and T your government. Coming

back. Both arguments will to you in our ﬁrst segment is

College Republicans be presented side-by-side immigration. See y’all next

intend to break away from with no commentary. It is week!‘

‘i the norm. Every W€6l(. up to you to be informed

members of each respective and be involved! There is no

 

 

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2012
Opinions Editor Beall shares his article written for Karl Rove 3 and CRN C is PA C, Crossroads Generation ' ,
By JP Beall ' I
OPINIONS EDITOR

In many ways, American politics with her teenage brother. mathematics, but had to work as a do not count in the unemployment rate, above 13%, years alter the Obama
is the politics of conscience. Our Another friend of mine living in handyman to pay his college debt, tried in vain to ﬁnd jobs. administration said the crisis had “hit
Congressmen, Senators, and Presidents Chicago called a handyman to help because it was the only job he could This is the world we college bottom.”
must lay by conscience, and come every repair his garbage disposal. When the ﬁnd. students must compete in. We must Vast parts of the country have been
election, American voters must evaluate compete with the general unemployed, forgotten in the recovery, and they were
the State of the Union, and vote by their Even across the country, the recovery experience discouraged workers, and the last four often the worst hit.
consciences. I ' - _ graduating classes of students across the If you listened to President Obama’s

It is especially important for us, the has been lopsided, Whzl e there IS plenty ofbuzldzng country to ﬁnd work and strike out on State of the Union speech, listening Q

future of America, to look around us
and to vote with our consciences, and
be heard, because this country is our
greatest inheritance.

No one wants economic hardship,
but it happened anyway. President
Obama clearly had wanted to focus on
other things back in 2008. But even in
his recovery plans, people have been
left behind. People like us. College
students and graduates. The future of
America.

One of my closest friends is one
such familiar case. She just graduated
ﬁ'om law school in Norfolk, Virginia,
and attended a top private college for
undergrad. But she cannot ﬁnd work,
and is living at home, sharing a room

going on around DC, areas like Florida and most
of the west are still sitting at the bottom of the

economic crater.

handyman arrived, he was shocked
that he was in his mid-twenties. The
handyman walked into the apartment,
and saw a whiteboard that belonged
to one of the others living in the ﬂat,
covered with complex math, and
shocked my friend all over again. He
started to talk about the work on the
board and critique it. The handyman
had advanced graduate degrees in

The current administration

has tried to address the economic
problems ravaging the country, but

the implementation has been lopsided.
The unemployment rate has not been
below 8% for 43 straight months. The
unemployment rates actually increased
over the last few months to 8.3% as a
wave of discouraged workers, those
who have given up on ﬁnding work and

our own.

And if you’re looking to buy a house
for yourself, you can forget about that!
With no proof of income or income to
speak of, all we can afford to do is wait
and hope. .

Even across the country, the
recovery experience has been lopsided.
While there is plenty of building going
on around DC, areas like Florida and
most of the West are still sitting at the
bottom of the economic crater.

The highways in DC are all freshly
paved. The highways in California
have not been paved since 1950.
Unemployment in parts of Southern
California are still above 10%.
Delinquency rates in Florida are

vainly to hear the President mention
your area for signs of improvement

in his long list of areas he has sought
to help, you will hear DC, New York,
Charlotte, Chicago, and St. Louis
multiple times. I never heard anything
west of St. Louis or south of Charlotte
once. Newsﬂash, folks, the Louisiana
Purchase was 209 years ago. Unlike
state-run healthcare, this is not up for
debate.

With all due respect to our president,
but we cannot try the same thing twice,
and expect a different result. A highly .
respected scientist once said that was
the deﬁnition of insanity.

I am voting for hope and change.
That’s why I’m voting Mitt Romney.

Rough waters ahead, Captain

Staff Writer Yates Wilburnfathoms the deep interlocking webs of foreign policy Chinese foreign policy

By Yates Wllburn
5 TA F F w R I T E R
Threats of a military strike against

Iran. Growing demands for intervention
in Syria. China pushing its claims in
the South China Sea. And now, our
embassies are under attack across

the Middle East. All of these issues

are inextricably linked—save for the
embassy attacks~—and the outcome of
one can have a direct impact on the
results of all the others.

The common factor in all of them
is an increasingly desperate China,
struggling to deal with an economy that
can’t maintain the mythical 8.5% GDP
growth rate economists say is needed to
placate her repressed population. When
combined with the recent disappearance
of Chinese Vice President and
presumptive presidential successor Xi
Jinping and the political opera that is the
B0 Xilai case makes for a disturbingly
tense situation in China.
How the United States handles the

defense of its interests in any one of
these issues will make it all the more
likely to encounter some form of
diplomatic head butting or even open
conﬂict on the other two issues, setting
the stage for a horrifying blow up that
could plunge the world (at least) back
into recession or into some limited
conﬂict that both the US and China will
ﬁnd difﬁcult to mediate or avoid.

Let’s start with Iran. While China is
rapidly attempting to cleanse its energy
portfolio of the stain of Iran due to I
increasing risk, it still got over 10% of
its oil imports from Iran as of last year.
To put that in perspective, the United
States got 12% of its oil imports from
Saudi Arabia, and 9% from Venezuela
in 2008.

Therefore, China has a strong
incentive to maintain the status quo
as long as possible, to allow them to

diversify away before things go up in

COPY EDITORS
STAFF WRITERS

GRAHAM COLTON
VICTORIA BELL
SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
YEJEAN KIM

smoke. Oil
makesup
———————:———— WASHlNGl‘ONANDl.EEUNlVERSl’l'Y —————-—j J-ustunder
T E R T PHI °f
H   o China’s
‘ energy
portfolio,
MANAGING EDITOR IULIANNA SATTERLY .
NEWS EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY a.“d"‘”“
OPINIONS EDITOR JP BEALL “Rely
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR CYNTHIA LAM Playan
SPORTS EDITOR LEIGH DANNIIAUSER increasing

role in it in the future. Any military
strike against Iran’s alleged nuclear
weapons facilities from Israel, the US
or both will create a situation that could
escalate into an open war that China
could not afford to ignore.

This explains China’s renewed and
aggressive pursuit of its territorial
claims in the South China Sea, which
range from inhabited islands to spits
of rock that are only above water for
6 hours everyday. These efforts are
largely aimed at gaining control over
large oil and gas deposits in the areas
of dispute, with the added bonus of
controlling all maritime traffic through
the Sea.

This obviously does not sit well with
other countries in the region, including
Vietnam, the Philippines, and Thailand
to name a few. As a result, these
nations—including Vietnam, arguably
in the biggest way of the group—have
begun warming up to the United States,
who has recently begun its long overdue
diplomatic and military “pivot” to Asia.

However, the most immediate and
pressing issue on the docket is the
Syrian Civil War, which continues to
kill hundreds everyday. China has an
economic interest in Syria in terms of
weapons and investment, and hopes to
keep Bashir Al-Assad in power, or at
the very least have a hefty say in how

O’ '
he leaves and who replaces him. A similar outcome resulted from
Not eager to repeat the situation NATO’s intervention in the Balkans
in Libya where the UN/NATO task . over the protests of Russia, at the ‘
force——~in both China’s and Russia’s expense of Georgia in 2008. The risk
However, the most immediate and pressing issue on
the docket is the Syrian Civil War, which continues
to kill hundreds everyday. China has an economic
interest in Syria in terms of weapons and investment, .I

and hopes to keep Bashir Al-Assad in power...

view——overstepped the boundaries of
the relevant resolutions, China will
never authorize a no-ﬂy zone over
Syrian airspace. This clashes with US
efforts to—at the very least—accelerate
Al-Assad’s removal via the UN.

All of this threatens China’s
economic growth and therefore the
Communist Party of China’s already
weakened authority and legitimacy
among the Chinese people. In this
sense, China would not take kindlyto
any sort of overly hostile efforts by the
US to resolve any one of these issues
against their favor without their input,
and would likely take out their anger
on the US in one or both of the other
disputes.

here is a quick escalation between US
and Chinese proxies that spirals out
of the control of either party, forcing
the US and China into a standoﬁ" that
carries the chance of open or at least
proxy conﬂict.

The world is becoming more and
more dangerous every day these
situations are leﬁ to fester, and must .
be resolved in a way that both the
US and China can tolerate with
limited bitterness. The next president,
whomever that is, must be prepared
to embody the words of Theodore
Roosevelt and, “tread lightly and carry
a big stick.”

Red light, green light -

Columnist Victoria Bell discusses the realities of policy gridlock

By Victoria Bell
STAFF WRITER

MARGARET LEER
ANDREA OWEN

LISA STOISER

SARAH WARD
ALLIE WEISS '
YATES WILBURN
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

KELLY MAE ROSS

MAGGIE VOELZKE

THE RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully.

and thoroughly report news affecting the

Washington and Leecommunity for students,
faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold

leaders accountable. Through our reporting,

we aspire to spark discussions that lead to
discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board. which
can be reached at mediaboard®wiu.edu, but
is otherwise lndependent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters

and advertising do not necessarily reflect

the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of

libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

The media lament over “gridlock”
and “hyper partisanship” in Congress.
Yet, the Founding Fathers established the
United States’ government to be effective
in legislation and its public policies, not '
necessarily efficient. Public policy is deﬁned
as “an intentional course of action followed
by a government or official for resolving
an issue of policy concern.” While likely
not the desired end of public policy, this
deﬁnition holds true in politics today. Rather
than prioritizing policy that best serves
consituency needs, modern public policy
generally acts to resolve issues of contention.

Public policy would best serve the public
through recognition of its incapacity to
make everyone happy. Benjamin Franklin
observes that “to serve the public faithfully,
and at the same time to please it entirely is
impracticable.” Sought after policies should

be those that serve the most collective public.

Instead, many policies are implemented to
appease short-term public concern and fulﬁll
backdoor deals made between Congressmen
on the hill.

The two feature U.S. political parties,
Democratic and Republican, establish and
act on issue platforms. As demonstrated at
the Democratic National Convention earlier
this month, the Democratic Party prioritizes

social issues such as women’s health and
human rights in zealous debate. Such issues
are at the forefront of today’s campaign
because the party recognizes these are issues
of great contention with the public, and

the party seeks to resolve these issues and
appease the public’s concerns through policy
implementation.

For example, President Obama

attempted to resolve an issue of policy
concern through the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act (PPACA). While some
praised its enactment, its passage raised a
variety of policy concems and questions of
constitutionality, the role of government in
healthcare, tax reform, the Federal budget,
government spending, and entitlement
reform. In fact, over the course of a decade,
PPACA operation costs will be over $2.7
trillion. The rhetoric of “yes we can” and
“healthcare for all” loses power when the
public is hurting for jobs, living costs are

on the rise, the bubble of student loan debt
looms, and savings accounts are shrinking.
Rather than a mandated action with tax
consequences for noncompliance, liberation
of healthcare insurance sales across state
lines and veneration of an individual’s liberty
to choose to buy or to not by health insurance
would underpin the healthcare market.

James Madison wrote it would be “vain to
say that enlightened statesmen will be able to
adjust...clashing interests and render them all
subservient to the public good. Enlightened
statesmen will not always be at the helm.”
Just as the Founding Fathers describe what
man should be, Franklin describes what
public policy should be.

To appease every single interest of the
public is not feasible. To not serve in the best
interests of the public is to disregard one’s
duty as an American. To implement policies
that maintain the public’s best interest while
simultaneously pleasing the public’s desires
is a Utopian ideal, but it is an ideal that
should garner priority.

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17-, 2012

5 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&|ife

. Meet and greet IFC and Panhellenic

Sound like all Greek to you? Have no fear;here is everything you ’ve ever wanted to know about these governing bodies

 

By Margaret Leer
s TA F F w R 1 T E R

Greek life is no secret at Washington
and Lee. With 14 fraternities and 6
sororities, these nationally-recognized
organizations make up roughly 80%
of the student body. Such a large
involvement makes Greek life part of
a strong tradition at W&L. However,
Greek life has one aspect that many
students are unfamiliar with: the
Interfraternity Council (IFC) and the
Panhellenic Council (PanHel).

While most people know that these
are the governing bodies of each
national fraternity and sorority on
campus and are crucial to the campus-
wide Greek system, many do not know
exactly what they do for students.

Members (PNMs) and upperclassmen
alike to‘ learn about the governing bodies
of Greek life and understand what they
do for W&L.
Q: What is the IFC?
A: Led by President Danny

Murray, ‘13, the IFC consists of seven
oﬁicers from various fraternities who
work together to “promote the best
interests of all Greek fratemities”

on campus. According to the IFC
constitution, its primary objectives

are education— “making certain, all
Greek men are aware of expectations
and opportunities for personal
development,” programming——- “leading
and motivating Greek men and Greek

entire campus and community,”
and mediation ——”training
Greek men to address difﬁcult
issues, confront inappropriate
behavior, and hold themselves
and others accountable.”

Q: What is PanHel?

A: A group of eight sorority
women led by President
Alexandra Frazier ‘l3, PanHel
“serves to enact positive change
within our campus community,
as well as promote the active
and engaged involvement of
sorority women in university
life.’’ According to its mission
statement, the main goal of the

Pictured from left to rlght: All Greenberg,
Lauren Hopklns, Anne Stafford, Grace Caruccl, Alexandra Frazler, and

éhand

     

V w

lerwatllngton, Anna

 

      
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  

organization is to be

‘ “a proactive and educational

. resource for Greek women”

‘ through various sponsored
events, fundraisers, and
opportunities hosted throughout
the school year.

Q: What are some common
misconceptions students have
about the IFC and PanHel?

Myth: The governing
bodies’ chief responsibility is
punishment.

Truth: Ideally, they promote
self-govemance within the
individual chapters and only
step in when absolutely
necessary. Instead, these groups
seek mainly to promote and
organizations to provide social and improve Greek life for the students as
educational opportunities that beneﬁt the well as organize the recruitment process.

Myth: The IFC and PanHel butt
heads with the administration at W&L.

Fact: The Greek governing bodies.
have a great relationship with W&L
administration. They actually work
closely together to improve Greek life
for all students involved.

Myth: The IFC and PanHel are two
different organizations.

Both organizations are collaborating
and planning events that will be co-
sponsored by the IFC and Panhellenic.
Q: Why should you “Go Greek?”
A: According to Murray: “It seems
like a choice you have to make because
such a large number of people are
involved. However, you shouldn’t join
because it’s popular, but because of the

   

Pictured from left to rlght: James Grasso, Reld Grler, Danny Murray, Nor-

rls Laffltte Ill, Harper Coulson, John Straton, and Jon Hale
Truth: The IFC and Panhel are

working closely together this year
to dispel any notion that female and
male Greeks are completely separate.

strength of the brotherhood. There is
diversity between each chapter that can
offer a lot to individuals. It really is a
unique system.”

As informal recruitment begins, it’s
important for both Potential New

Students lea p right intotree

Forget about tubing down the Maury; students take adventure to extreme heights with this swinging new pastime.
By Maggie Voelzke -*1 s 1 ' ea ’_,;[.
s TA F F w R 1 T E R ’ 2
Washington and Lee students have long
used the Maury River for lazy Spring Term
tubing and swimming. Trees shade the cool
water and the slow current allows for hours
of sunbathing and catching up with friends.
Recently, however, students have been
using the river for something a little more
adventurous——tree swinging and jumping.
Located ﬁve minutes down the road from
the Pole Houses is a small stretch of river
marked by a grassy path and rusted, outdoor
grill. A small rope swing hangs from the tree
closest to the road, accessible via a wooden
latter nailed to the trunk. Swingers can jump
from different heights based on comfort, and

    

 

drop off into the Maury only a few yards from have also discovered the spot and can be seen
the exit latter. Depending on jumping speed, jumping from the trees after school lets out
swingers can throw themselves off the swing during the week.
into the deeper part of the river. Whether you’re a daredevil or just enjoy
For an even higher jump, the tree on cooling off aﬁer a long week, tree swinging
the opposite bank is taller and has a series and jumping provides quick and easy access
of metal rings attached to use as a ladder. to a little bit of adventure and fun. By foot,
Climbers can still jump from varying heights, the location is a 15-minute hike on the trail
but this time the jump is vertical and jumpers behind the pavilion. By car, it is a ﬁve-minute
hit the water at a greater speed. drive past the Pole Houses, and there is a
There has been a rise in student use of this single parking space a little up the road. It is
location this fall. The 2012-2013 Residential open to all students and can be used at any
Advisors visited over their summer training, time. A
and first-year halls and sports teams have
also joined in the fun. Local high schoolers

criii cl nun out (3](LeX.

|il2|.\‘l\'t.'tl h_v the tle|icio11st:1111_1_\' i11terc.xti11g, and the rare
lemon sauce that accon1panies c|1ancc to .x':1n1p|c gclato i11
tl1e x‘c:1loo<|. o1tI‘\’l1l2llll<1\\t1\\zlS|cI1\plit1g.
lhc entree c|1<1ices1':111gc‘ lhe hanai1:1-cl1ocolatc .\'\\ irl
troni :1 cheese plate to :1 §_'.cl:1to..x'c1'\‘etl i11 :1 n1:11’tini
\egeie—li11i'ge1‘ to :111 o\'cI1-
poacl1c<ls:1ln1o11stea|<.'l'|1c
loc:1l |n1i‘§__*e1‘. sen L‘tl \\ill1
apple citlcr sla\\ :1n<lc|1ip.x'.
is:n1ccoi1o111ic:1| tllltlL‘l£l.\'.\'lL‘

l"or.son1e |.exi11gto11i:111.x.
t|1e (‘ool Spri11g()rg_-:111ic
l\l:11'l\ct:111tl(‘;1lc is :1 Iresh
:111tle:1rtl1_\ l>re:1l< li'on1 t|1c
|11tt_\ last--|'ootlrestanr:1I1ts
t|1:1t litter l.ce ||igl1\\a_\.
.r\|l1cit. hcltl to the santc
const1'ictions t|1:1t a sn1:1|l
111en11 li‘onl :1 natio11:1l chain
re.xt:1111‘:111t laces. (‘ool Spring

‘_ ass. oll'c1'ctl :1 1'eli'c.x'l1i11p
\\a_\ to end :1 meal, h:1la11cing
tl1c strong |l:1\o1's ot‘ ha11:111:1
\\cll \\ itl1 chocolate ri|»ho11s
and :1 \a11illa—h:1.\'c<l gclato.

 

 

Male Voelzke mlrrors Tarzan and swings from tree to
tree during a fall day at the Maury Rlver.

 

xllll n1:11\:1gc.\' to oller 11p t|:1i|_v

\‘pcci:1l.\' in so11p.x':111¢lentrcc.\'.
co111hiningne\\~ ll:1\ror.x' \\ith
i11—sc:1soi1org:111ic protlncc
Jllltl meat.

'|'l1en1:1.x'tcrsol‘
present:1tion. (‘ool Spri11g ca11
|ll1ll\C any lacl\' i11 lla\or or
\a1‘ict_\' a poi11t ol'n1z1i11t:1ini11g_-

t1l'g1l|1lC roots antl ati11o.sp|1ere.

Slicer! h:1g11ette.x':11‘e sen ed
lllllllC(lltllL‘l_\ \\itl1:1l‘n||—
hotlictl o|i\c oil, 1'en1i11i.x'cenl
oliltalianrcsl:1u1‘:1I1ts:nnl
l'rcI1c|1c:1l‘es.'l‘l1c grilled
or;_»:n1ic .x'l11‘in1p, :1 somexxhat
c\pensi\e appeti/ct; is :1
111ncl1s111:1l|er\e1'sion
o|'\\h;1t is11orn1:1||_\'
i1n:1gi11etl.
but t|1e
(ll‘_\‘ grilled
taste is
1 well

choice lo1‘.st1nlc11t.\‘. Whilc
tl1c h111‘gcr.\' can he c:1.\'il\‘
o\'crcool\ctl (l .\11gg_1,c.\t _\o11
LlSl\ l‘oI"‘I1ietli11111“il‘}o11

are paltial to :1 c|1argrillct|
lnirgcr). atltlilions |i|\'e h:1co11.
caraiiicli/ctl onio11s.:n1t|
cl1c(ltl:1r:1<ltl c.\tra |l:1\ or to
thc n1c1li1n11 .\'l/Ctl patty.

- “( 'reate \'o1n'()\\n
lfI1t1‘cc.":1 popular 111cn11
.x'c|eclio11. :1llo\\x cn.x'toi11er.x' to
c|1oosehct\\ce11 :1 \e;_»et:1hlc
111e1l|c_\’\\ill1hro\\11riccor
p:1st:1, .\'er\‘ctl \\ it|1 n1_\ri:1(|
sauce cl1oicc.\:1It(l t|1coption.s
ol‘tol'n.e|1ic|\e11.orslirimp.
'l'hc roti11i pasta. topped
\\ itl1 pesto s:1ncc;111tl grilled
ClllCl\Cll. \\a.x' :1 light tllltl
li‘csl1cI1tI'eca1nl :1||o\\ Ctl for
:1 ll:1vorl‘11l sauce \\it|1ont
ontsliiiiing the subtle llavors
ofthe chicken.

l)essert choices \\ere

|’o1‘111:n1_\'sl1nleI1tx.(‘ool
Spring c:1I1hco11t.\'it|ct|1c
t‘ca.s'o1tal3lc price 1'a11gc(:1
tlnnicrhill c:111e:1si|y rcach
fo1‘t_\'tlol|z11‘.x‘l. hnt lot‘ :1
tlclightliil and (lillc1'e11t lxllltl
o|'t|:1teni;_-l1t.t‘oolSpri11;:l1:1s
t|1e at111oxphc1'c and it|eo|og;_\
to n1:1l\c it :1 \\oI'th\\lIilc
c\eni11§.-.

l.:1he|iI1g_1it>cll'z1x “li‘e\'|1.
org_':1nic.:1nt| .\'11x't:1i11:1l1|c.“
(‘ool .\'pri11j_; .\ll()lll(l I'ci11ai11:1s
axlaplc i11 tl1e l.c\iI1j;lo|1:1l'c:I
lorco111hiniI1g t:1.\t_\,o1‘};:111ic
options \\it|1\\ar1n lig;l1ti11j;.
:111 opcI1-l'(1on1 Iccl. and the
atltletl pc;1ce—ol'—111i11<l lot‘

customers li'on1 |\’11o\\in;_1 their
cl1oiccs:1rcl1caltl1)'.'|'l1:n1|\s
to the organic appeal ol‘(‘oo|
Spring. t|1c big price tag
al\\:1_\ s sccn1s snialler.

  

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2012

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&|ife'

 

Bored of Stonehenge? Try Foamhenge F

If you ’re tired of seeing the same landmark over and over again, take a chance and check out this iconic Lex version.

By Lisa Stoiser
STA F F w R IT E R

Looking to get away from the typical
on-campus classroom experience? For ,
less than $3.00 in gas (even less for
carpoolersl), sociology/anthropology
majors can speculate on the cultural
signiﬁcance of monuments and outdoor
ceremonies just inches away from the
giant, meticulously-placed blocks that
make up one of the Rockbridge County
Heritage Sites — F oamhenge of Natural
Bridge. More of a science center
person? The site provides educational
opportunities outside of the humanities
as well — physics/engineering majors
can spend a day exploring the structural
merits of polystyrene foam while
environmental studies students can
study the

_ is commonly known by the

   
 
 
  
  
 
 

decomposition of exposed landﬁll
materials in moderate climates.
Whatever your ﬁeld of study,
Foamhenge has it all.

Okay, so maybe Natural Bridge
isn’t ofﬁcially recognized as a
W&L study abroad destination, and
maybe Foamhenge is really just a
lousy bunch of upright polystyrene
foam blocks (the material

proprietary eponym StyrofoamTM)
arranged in a circle on top of a hill
in the middle of Nowhere, Virginia.
Perhaps the wizard sculpture
that overlooks the circle of faux
megaliths would have been less
creepy if its face hadn’t been cast
from a dead man. Nevertheless,
entrance to Foamhenge is free,
and the place offers the
opportunity to look at a
remarkably convincing
model for Salisbury’s
Stonehenge up close.
Mark Kline of
Enchanted Castle
Studios, the man behind
one of the most visually
accurate replicas of the
real Stonehenge, offers
these words, printed on
a Styrofoam block, at the
entrance to Foamhenge:
“Stonehenge took 1500 years
to complete using stones weighing

as much as 50 tons. An estimated
600-1000 men draggedthe stones from
Marlborough Downs, 20 miles north.
Foamhenge was completed in six weeks
 It took 4-5 Mexicans and one crazy
white man.”

The foam blocks appeared in their
current formation, which happens to
match exactly that of Stonehenge down
to the nicks in the blocks, around April
Fool’s Day in 2004. They will probably
occupy their current hill in some form
for the next million years (polystyrene
grains take a while to decompose)

unless someone decides to take a
chainsaw to the place and make off with
packing peanuts. Thanks to Kline’s
upkeep‘ and an intimidating cautionary
sign posted nearby (“Sometimes I

sit & watch. l’ll let you scratch on
Foamhenge as I do the same to your
parked vehicle”), the blocks are even
free of the grafﬁti and lovers’ initials
that most public monuments inspire.

Whether you want to take that

cute girl from math class on a quirky
stargazing date in the middle of

one of this millennium’s marvels or

Pictured above: Foamhenge in all of its shining faux glory, located right in the heart of Rockbridge County.

accidentally get lost on the way to

the Safari Park, be sure to check out
Foamhenge at least once while you’re
here at W&L.

Directions: Take highway 1]
South... thats it. After 15-20 minutes
of driving, past the zoo in Natural
Bridge, there 71 be a fence with at
“FOAMHENGE” sign on the right.

  A horse show to “beat” disabilities

Students, staff and community members gathered for a day of charity and racing at the Hear the Beat Horse Show

in

By Allie Weiss
s TA F F w R I T E R

Last Sunday was marked by an
important event at the Virginia Horse
Center in Lexington. Hoofbeats
Therapeutic Riding Center, a nonproﬁt
organization dedicated to the belief that
horses provide healing for those with
disabilities, hosted the Hear the Beat
Horse Show.

Deborah Work, Special Events
Director at Hoofbeats, notes that on .
average, such shows raise about $5,000.
Proceeds go towards maintaining and
continuing the work of the riding center,
which caters to those who are affected
by physical, emotional, mental, speech,
and learning disabilities.

This was the last in a series of three

fundraising shows this year. Of the
show, a Hoofbeats employee notes,
“Our riders learned so much about
teamwork, preparation, and goal setting,
as well as getting so

the key ideas ofthis therapy is that

horses are reactionary, and riders must
learn a certain degree of self~control in
order to command them. Furthermore,

Since 1993, Hoofbeats Riding
Center has been a place where people
afflicted with disabilities can feel
welcome. According to Work, staff

and volunteers spent

much experience!”
Riders of all ages
gathered to perform,
at once entertaining
crowds and promoting

the idea that horses are like they ﬁt in. It gives them a lot of conﬁdence. ’
ERICA SCHWOTZER, junior

an effective means of
treating different sorts
of handicaps. Equestrian
facilitated learning (EFL) is a type of
therapy which teaches communication,
discipline, and self-assurance. One of

“Everybody who works there is so incredibly nice

and welcoming. Kids can feel at home there, feel

the reward for doing so is almost
immediate, making EFL a positive
teaching style.

over 2,000 hours in

the last year alone
teaching students with
disabilities.

Junior Erica
Schwotzer, who
participated in Sunday’s
event, described her
experience volunteering
at Hoofbeats. “Everybody who
works there is so incredibly nice and

}

welcoming. Kids can feel at home there,

feel like they ﬁt in. It gives them a lot of '
conﬁdence,” said Schwotzer.

Students on the W&L Equestrian
Team have been getting involved with
Hoofbeats for years. Juli Sorenson,

a junior, remembered her time spent

at Hoofbeats. Said Sorensen: “It was
freshman year, and we had a group from
the Equestrian Team go out and help
with grooming the horses and getting
the kids ready. It was really fun.”

' Being an organization that survives
solely due to the help of volunteers,
Work added that their doors are always
open to students who wish to get
involved, regardless of past experience
with horses.

50 many organizations, so little time

Whether you ’re‘a brand new ﬁrst-year or a seasoned senior, there are plenty of opportunities to get involved on campus

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

We’ve all read those glossy
pamphlets, ﬁlled with statistics, trying
to prove that Washington and Lee is
the best university. One statistic they
always boast: 135 Undergraduate
Student Organizations. 135
Undergraduate Student Organizations
— all unique, all active, all adding to the
overall community of our campus. With
135 organizations, there is a place for
everypassion.

No matter whatyou are interested in,
there is an organization for it. W&L”s
clubs span a wide range of pursuits and
passions, from cultural societies like
the Pan Asian Association for Cultural
Exchange (PAACE) to intramural
athletics such as the rugby league to
volunteer service groups like Campus
Kitchen. And, if by some strange
chance there isn’t something that ﬂoats
your boat, start your own club! Thanks
to W&L’s encouraging attitude towards
student involvement, most organizations
are managed primarily by students
and need the enthusiasm of students to
continue operating.

The beautiful thingabout the A
beginning of the year is how easy it is
to get involved. Organizations are all
vying for your affection (or, I should
say, participation) and reaching out

to you. My favorite tactic: giving out
free food. Last week, multiple groups
hosted ice cream socials ~ Generals’
Christian Fellowship (GCF) and Student
Association for International Learning
(SAIL), just to name two. Cook-outs,
picnics, and bake sales also covered
Cannan Green during the ﬁrst few
weeks of school as organizations strived

to capture the student body’s attention.

And of course, the annual Campus
Activities Fair graced the lawn of
Carman Green. With representatives
from the majority of student
organizations, the Activities Fair was
a great opportunity for ﬁrst-years and

upperclassmen alike to learn more about -

the various happenings on campus.

Didn’t get to attend any of these
wonderfully informative sessions?
lt’s okay! With W&L’s tight-knit and
interactive community, you are bound to
get involved (whether you like it or not).
To learn more, check out the Student
Organizations Page online at the school
website.

 

   

Q

 

 

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBERII7, 2012

7 ° THE RING-TUM PHI '

  

    

By Shelby Flores

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee volleyball team suffered
a tough ﬁve-game loss to Averett University to close
out the weekend at the Warner Center. Averett’s 7-0
scoring run in the ﬁfth set helped the Cougars seal the
victory.

“I think Averett did a good job scouting us,” head
coach Bryan Snyder said about the last match. “They
played very aggressive.”

Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles led the Generals
in the match with 17 kills. Boles and sophomore de-
fensive specialist Kelly McManus led the team with
11 digs each. First-year right side hitter Maddie Kosar
tallied a career-high seven aces.

The weekend still proved a success for the Gener-
als. Wins over Lynchburg College and Randolph Col-
lege helped the team improve to an 8-4 overall record
and a 3-0 record in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference. ' -

First-year defensive specialist Mansie Hough led
the Generals with a season-high ﬁve service aces
against Lynchburg. McManus contributed 13 digs in
the win over the Hornets.

Sophomore middle hitter Katie Toomb led the T
team with 13 kills against Randolph. F irst-year setter .

Alex Kinzer tallied a career-high 31 assists.

“When we got the ball where we wanted it to go, ‘

our offense was as good as it’s looked this year,” Sny-
der said. “We just put ourselves in too many bad situ-
ations with bad ﬁrst touches.”

The team’s next match will be Wednesday, Sept. "

19 at 7 p.m. against Emory & Henry College in the
Warner Center. This weekend, the Generals will face
Virginia Wesleyan College at 12 p.m. and Mary Bald-
win College at 4:30_ p.m. at home on Saturday, Sept.
22.

>.s»~« '

. Va“

Junior setter Meghan Melesjki sets the ball
Photo from W&L Sports Info

Men fall to Guilford, 2-1

Generals fall short in a game ﬁlled with fouls
By Hailey Hartley
3 TA F F w R IT E R

Men’s soccer fell 2-1 in their ﬁrst ODAC
match-up against Guilford on Saturday night.

The Generals pulled out to an early lead with
ﬁrst-year Ben Bayles scoring at 5:18 of the con-
test. They continued their attack through the ﬁrst
half before allowing the Quakers to even the score
just before halftime.

Sophomore Chris Gillespie of Guilford opened

The game was a battle on both sides as over
30 fouls were given out, including four yellow
cards. Each team was given two yellow cards but
Guilford was charged with 20 fouls, nearly double
W&L’s 11.
The loss brings the Generals’ record to 3-2 (0-1
ODAC). They return to the ﬁeld on Wednesday
when they host ODAC foes Virginia Wesleyan at

  

  p o rts  

  Generals take 2 of 3 at home

:. Despite a late loss to Averetz‘, Volleyball improves to 8-4 record over the weekend with wins over Lynchburg, Randolph

  

Sophomores Toby D’Ambo|a and Al Organ with junior
Zach Clarke before a game

"' i .‘ ;'iI'.r-"-T“
‘- -mv '

Photo from W&L Sports Info

HAILEY HAl{'l‘LEY

This NFL season we saw a record setting
ﬁve Week—One rookie starters at the QB
-position, four of whom were ﬁrst round
draft picks. We saw everything from ar-
guably the best ﬁrst half performance by

  

Ii.-.AD

the second half with his second goal of the game 4230.
leaving the Generals trailing 2-1. Washington &
Lee took eight shots in the half but were unable to
even the score before time ran out.

Sophomore goalkeeper Albert Civitarese had
ﬁve saves for the Generals while playing the full

90 minutes in the net.

 

1m.I2 .nuar:Ia11

Andrew Luck - taken ﬁrst overall in last
spring’s NFL draft — will be a star. That be-

ment. Robert Griﬂin III will be a better
pro. This may seem a bit premature, but it’s

 

a rookie, Robert Griffin III, to equally
as arguably the worstvperformance by
a rookie, Brandon Weeden. Making a
statement early on is important in the
NFL, but lasting power is what wins di-

Rookie quarterbacks made big news in the
ﬁrst two weeks of the NFL season, Andrew
Luck and Robert Grifﬁn III included. Which
‘of the two rookie quarterbacks is better?

Hailey and Kyle give you their takes

a notion that’s worth considering. Grifﬁn’s
unique skillset — athleticism, arm strength,
and IQ — made him a Heisman award win-
ner less than a year ago. These abilities also
made him the talk of the NFL combine,
especially after he posted an ofﬁcial time

visions and championships.

Number one overall pick Andrew Luck

showed he isn’t ﬂawless in ‘his Week One performance
against the Chicago Bears. ' His mistakes were glaring
(three interceptions is nothing to ignore) but he threw for
over 300 yards, with a relatively unknown group of receiv-
ers. Luck showed chemistry with Pro Bowl receiver Reggie
Wayne and has a growing connection with Stanford team-
mate Coby Fleener. Players like RGIII and Cam Newton
seem to have less of a struggle with the transition from col-
lege to the NFL. This means that yes, RGIII will most likely
have a better 2012 season than Luck, but his style is not that
of a lasting career and championship wins. ‘I believe Luck’s
style of play is key to the adjustments he is going to have
to make on the ﬁeld. Luck plays with his arm and a pres-
ence in the pocket,,and he will have to adjust to the speed
that NFL defenses play with. He will make mistakes while
he makes this adjustment. Eli and Peyton Manning both
started during their rookie NFL year and hadesimilar weak
quarterback ratings and multiple interceptions. Now both
Manning brothers are Pro Bowlers with Super Bowl MVP
awards. The same can be said for Super Bowl Champion
and MVP Drew Brees.
The Colts have a long way to gogbefore they are contenders
but I think that by the second half of the season we will see
Luck. growing comfortable in the pocket. His timing and
accuracy should improve as he becomes more familiar with
NFL defenses. This will be a textbook rebuilding year for
Luck and the Colts, but it won’t be long before Luck is being
talked about as one of the elite quarterbacks in the NFL.

1 of 4.41 in the forty-yard dash. He also ran

an unoﬂicial time of 4.38 seconds, making
him just the second quarterback ever (Michael Vick the ﬁrst)
to run the dash in under 4.4 seconds. It is Griﬂ’1n’s physical
tools that drove the Redskins to mortgage their future, gam-
bling all their chips squarely on his shoulders, by trading up to
select him second overall. Many argued that the Redskins of-
fered too much in order to move up to the second overall pick,
but it seems as though RG3 has proven the doubters wrong
with his unbelievable ﬁrst game performance. In his ﬁrst regu-
lar season game, Griflin led the Redskins to a 40-32 victory
against the Saints — in the Superdome no less. His stat line was
even more spectacular than the end result: 19-26 for 320 yards
and 2 touchdowns. He also tacked on 42 rushing yards on only
9 attempts. He was voted Player of the Week, the ﬁrst QB in
the history of the league to do so in his pro debut. Luck, by
comparison, nearly doubled Griﬂin in pass attempts but only
completed 51.1% of hispasses. Luck also threw 3 interceptions
— the most telling sign that he might experience heavy grow-
ing pains in his ﬁrst season. Through one game, it seems that
Griffin has been able to transition almost seamlessly into the
NFL. Why, one might ask, has Griﬂin had an easier time than
Luck? The answer is multifaceted. RG3’s physical abilities may
be the best of any quarterback ever, but it is the intangibles he
possesses that will put him far above Luck when their careers
are said and done. Not many people know thatwhile at Baylor,
Grifﬁn made the Honor Roll every year. He graduated with a
degree in political science in just three years. He also intends
to apply to Baylor’s law school. Griﬂin clearly has a strong head
on his shoulders. When you combine this with his raw talent,
it is evident that Robert Griﬂin III will be a superstar for years
to come.

ing said, I’m going to make a bold state— «

  

the season. After being suspended 50 games last month for

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 17, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers

50,000

The number of total episodes that Sportscenter hit on Sept.

13.

.346 ,

San Franslcso Giant, Melky cabera’s batting average‘ for

testing positive for performance enhancing drugs, his sea-
son ended. His battlng average is still good enough to lead
the National League. He is one bat shy of having the neces-

sary total to win the batting title.

52-0  

The ﬂnal score in two NCAA football games on Saturday.
Number 1 ranked Alabama defeated Arkansas and Number

5 ranked Florida State University defeated Wake Forest.

6

The total number of sacks that Green Bay Packer
Clay Matthews has on the season. The next clos-

est is Henry Melton of the Chicago Bears with three.

soapbox

“We've shown we’re willing to give, but
they've got to be willing. It seems like  
there's a pretty hard line there, and they're
not willing to budge.”

-NHLplqyer8ydno1croeir/oniheiooitnutbetuleenplayers
andorrners.itIsihoeeooridIn8yeers,i‘iomESPN.com

“You don't do that. You don’t jeopardize the
offensive line, you [don't] jeopardize the
quarterback. Thank goodness we didn't V
get anybody hurt, that I know of, a couple
of linemen were late coming in [after the
game]."

-NowYori(GienisooechTbm0oimiInel'uarstmdqy'sganie
verotsuIe1brI1paBqyBuooer|oers.whentheGlanI3were
uidruei<rIeotoerIdtho¢emeversus1heBuccanee_n,ooach
engschlenodiedpdlytoid hispiqyerstotaio Giant’:
qInrterbed(,EiiMarllrl¢,to1he9'ound.11ioGianiswonihe
Qrno4.1-34.fl'omEsPN.oom

 

Generals take 2 ODAC games.

Women is soccer outscores opponents I9-0 this week

By Hailey Hartley
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington & Lee wom-
en’s soccer team won in dominat-
ing fashion twice this week, beat-
ing Hollins and Randolph l0-0
and 9-0 respectively.

The Generals ﬁrst hosted Hol-
lins on Wednesday, scoring seven
goals in the ﬁrst half. Sophomore

 

Sophomore midfielder Lauren Abraham
Photo from W&L Sports Info

Haley Ward started the game with
two unassisted goals within the
ﬁrst ﬁve minutes. Sophomores
Katherine Rush and Holly Bea-
sley also had two goals apiece.
A strong performance from the
team kept Hollins at only four
shots. Sophomore goalkeeper

Kingsley Schroeder made one
save «in the shutout while spend-
ing the full game in the net.

On Saturday the W&L women
traveled to Randolph where eight
players scored at least one goal.
First-year Becca Dunn led the
Generals with two goals. First-

year Addie Healy recorded the
only save for the Generals in the
match-up, splitting time in goal
with Schroeder. The Generals
improved their record to 4-1 (2-1
ODAC) and will travel to Emory
and Henry on Tuesday night in
another ODAC match-up.

FH steals win away from Kean

Stefanie keeps hopes alive by tying

By Shelby Flores
STA FF W RITE R

Sophomore defender Caroline
Andress’s game-winning goal in
overtime against Kean University
helped the Washington and Lee

ﬁeld hockey team improve to a

2-3 record overall. The neutral-
site game was played at Roanoke
College.

Junior forward Taylor Zusi as-
sisted the winning goal 8:38 into
the overtime period. The game-

winning goal marked the ﬁrst col-
legiate goal for Andress.
The win over Kean ended the
Generals’ two-game losing streak
and dropped the Cougars to 3-4.
This loss also marks the second-
straight overtime loss for the
Cougars. '
Junior midﬁelder _ Korri
Thompson scored Kean’s only
goal 14 minutes into the second

half.

The Generals’ victory would
not have been possible without
a late goal in the second half by
sophomore forward- Candice Ste-
fanic. Assisted by ﬁrst-year for-
ward Sydney Tomaso, Stefanie
scored with 10 seconds left in the
second half to force the overtime
period. It was Tomaso’s ﬁrst as-
sist and point in her collegiate

the score with I 0 seconds left

career.

First-year goalkeeper Megan
Axelrod helped the Generals with
10 saves in her ﬁrst collegiate
start for W&L. Including’ over-
time she played the full 78:24 in
the net.

The Generals will face the
University of Mary Washington
at 6 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 18 on
the W&L Turf Field.

Sophomore defender Caroline Andress

ondeck

Photo from W&L Sports Info

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
Women’; Saccer VSE&H5Z30 vsVaWes3pm
Men's Soccer vsVaWes4:30pm atH‘S3pm
Field Hockey vsMaryWash.6pm atR-M4pm
womenvs Tennis atMaryWashington8am
Men's Cross Country D9°g:’§3°gn'1"V”°
G 0 I f at Bridgewater Day 2
voneyban vsE&H7pm Homeat12and4:30

 

  

 
  

  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
     
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
    
     
    
   
   
    
    
    
    
 

   

...a tin roof in the trees: your only clue to
the treasure that awaits you, s ‘

ARTS & LIFE / page 6

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENITS SINCE 1897

    JWASIIINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY    -  

’ THE RING-TUM PHI.

Effectiveness gets
new leadershi

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

Washington & Lee recently wel-
comed Mr. Bryan Price as the new Assis-
tant Provost for Institutional Effective-
ness. This Oﬂice of W&L is responsible
for compiling data regarding a wide
range of topics and providing analysis to
assist departments and individuals both
inside and outside W&L, according to
wlu.edu.

Price ﬁlls a role once held by Ms.
Debbie Dailey, who now acts as the
Associate Vice President for Planning,
accreditation and research at Delaware
Valley College in Doylestown, PA, ac-
cording to wlu.edu.

Price maintains 17 years of experi-
ence in an institutional research role,
most recently working at Virginia-Wes-
leyan University. He also held positions
at Eastern University in Philadelphia,
Pa., West Liberty University in West
Liberty, WV. and Salisbury University
in Salisbury, Md. According to Price, his
previous responsibilities at these institu-
tions included assessment, evaluation,
accountability, accreditation and plan-
ning.

Among the committee members in-
volved in the hiring process, experience
was an essential requirement. “We were
looking for someone who had a mastery
of data management, of assessment and
of putting quantitative measurements to
the University’s teaching mission,” said
committee member and English profes-
sor Dr. Marc Conner.

Dr. Robert Strong, Interim Provost
of W&L, agreed that hiring an individ-
ual with a signiﬁcant knowledge base in
higher education was necessary for the
office’s success. Strong said, “Because
Price had a similarjob in some ways, in
fact an even more elevated job at Virgin-
ia-Wesleyan as their Vice President who
reported directly to the President of the
University, he had exactly the creden-
tials we were looking for.”

Price made the decision to join
W&L’s administration for several rea-
sons. After having worked at Virginia-
Wesleyan for ﬁve years, Price believed
he reached all of his goals for the Uni-
versity. He said that multiple opportu-
nities became available, but W&L was
the right choice. Price said: “W&L ﬁts. I
love the location. I’m from Virginia and I
love the Shenandoah Valley region. And
when my family walked around the com-
munity, we found it to be very friendly.”

According to Strong, one of Price’s
biggest responsibilities is accreditation.
As the Assistant Provost of Institutional
Effectiveness, Prices serves as the ad-
ministrator of the Southern Association
of Colleges and Schools (SACS). SACS
accredits W&L through an evaluation of
detailed reports about students, employ-
ees, budgets and many other aspects of
the University. “Being the SACS ad-
ministrator is an important job because
SACS keeps track of what schools in the
south are doing and we need to make

sure we’re providing accurate informa-
tion,” Strong said.

As with any new position, Price ac-
knowledges that there will be challenges
ahead. “The biggest challenge is helping
people to understand that we’re partner-
ing together to demonstrate effective-
ness, not just to external alliances, but to
one another,” he said.

Price added that it’s also difficult, at
any institution, for other departments
and alliances to prioritize the needs of
the Oﬁice of Institutional Effectiveness
along with the needs of their own ome-
es and duties. Price recognizes that the
needs of his ofﬁce, such as ﬁling reports,
can be time-consuming. “The faculty
here is very committed to students, and
to the education of students and dialogue
in the classroom, so we have to find
ways to recognize and reward the effort
that goes into providing that evidence to
our audience,” Price said.

The Office of Institutional Effective-
ness also provides an important resource,
the Fact Book, that is a compilation of
data about the University. The document
can be found on the University web page
for the Ofﬁce of Institutional Effective-
ness and according to Strong. it is a
source of information that more students
should be aware of.

The Fact Book includes data about
the different states and countries in
which W&L students are from, popular
majors of the University, and reports

SRC brings admissions to life

Recruitment committee oﬂers prospectives a picture of life at W&L

By Hamlet Fort
5 TA F F w R I T E R

September is a busy time at W&L
- students are growing accustomed to
juggling classes, sports, parties and ex-
tracurriculars. Most are deciding if they
want to join a student organization and
those who head them are mostly just get-
ting started. There is one group on cam-
pus, however, that hits the ground run-

ning with the new term, as their job starts ‘

when the ﬁrst prospective student arrives
to visit the Hill.

The Student Recruitment Commit-
tee (SRC) is a student-operated group
of individuals who attempt to “provide
the best possible W&L admissions expe-
rience to prospective students and their
families, through comprehensive, infor-
mative tours, blog posts and other com-
munication initiatives that highlight the
many advantages of a W&L education,”
according to their blog.

SRC members are perhaps most well-
known as the students who give tours to
groups of prospective students and their
families. However, according to Lizzie
Engel ’l3, Vice President of Commu-
nications and Recruitment for the SRC,
the Committee does a lot more than just
giving tours. '

“We maintain a blog (wlusrc.word-
press.com) that all of our members can

post to. We use this to give prospective

Cheese To You shop, ‘a hike on Jump
Rock Mountain and other daily events
that make W&L unique.

“T he Oﬁice is constantly adapting the ways they

recruit new students to go with the changing times, ”

says Engel. “More emphasis is placed on technol-

ogy as a recruitment tool and we are trying to take

advantage of that. ”

Lizzie Engel, VP of Communications and Recruitment for the SRC
 

students a taste of what life at W&L is
like for actual students, people just like
them,” Engel says.

The daily life of students at a uni-
versity is usually towards the top of the
priority list for prospective students.
Beyond academics, athletics and extra-
curriculars, students want to know what
their life is going to be like at their school
- and the SRC‘ gives prospectives an idea
of life at W&L. SRC members post to
the Committee’s blog about things like
the new Lexington Coffee Roasters and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The SRC does not review applica-
tions or make admissions decisions -
that’s the job for the Admissions Office.
That does not mean they do not work in
tandem, however.

The Admissions Ofﬁce’s schedule
is picking up steam, and the Office is
molding its recruiting strategies as pro-
spective students change. Admissions
counselors are currently in the “travel
season,” where they travel all over the
country and world visiting high schools
and college fairs advertising W&L.

“The Office is constantly adapting
the ways they recruit newstudents to go
with the changing times,” says Engel.
“More emphasis is placed on technology
as a recruitment tool and we are trying to
take advantage of that.”

The Admissions Ofﬁce is heavily in-
volved in social media, as they maintain
their own blog (wluadmissions.com), a
Twitter and Facebook page, and other
media as an effort to reach out to stu-
dents today who are constantly “tuned
in.”

The SRC is a competitive group, and
applications from current students are
extensive and involve an interview pro-
cess. The Committee takes applications
later this year and those who they ac-
cept begin a “training” process of giving
tours.

To contact the SRC, visit their blog at
wlusrc.wordpress.com.

tutionat effectiveness.

about student engagement on campus.
Strong said: “We come off really

well. In the report you’ll be able to see

that W&L students say they study more

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 3

hours than elsewhere, and when asked if

they have access to their professors, we
get very high scores.”

Hearing board hears
new procedure

By Douglas McNiel
STAFF ,WRITER

The Student Faculty Hearing Board
(SFHB), a conduct committee that deals
with cases of sexual misconduct, hazing
by non-Greek organizations and dis-
crimination, has decided to switch to a
civil rights investigating procedure for
this term.

The SFHB is a committee under the
Executive Committee (EC) composed of
four faculty members and four students
appointed by the EC.

This summer, two of the administra-
tion members attended a training session
in Atlanta hosted by the Association for
Title IX Administrators. The administra-
tion members who attended were Jason
Rodocker, the Assistant Dean for First-
Year Experience, and Lauren Kozak, As-
sistant Director of Career Planning in the
Law School.

At the convention, they learned how
to carry out the new civil rights inves-
tigation procedures. Rodocker said the
“civil rights investigation procedure is
part ofthe University’s continuing effort

will meet the complainant, respondent
and any witnesses and take down each
of their versions of the story. The two
investigators will then use the facts to
write a summary of the report and this
report will be the one used in the trial or
meetings with the committee.

With this process, the victim does not i

have to tell his or her story more than
once. The complainant, respondent, and
witness(es) may have to answer any
questions the SFHB has, but they will
not have to retell their stories.

Caroline Schmidt, Senior Member of
the SFHB, said with the new method of
investigation, “the investigators will be
able to develop a list of undisputed facts,
so that by the time it gets to the Board,
the hearings are shorter and less difficult
for the parties involved.”

The SF HB decided to give this inves-
tigational procedure a try because it has
worked well to increase the number of
incidents reported at other schools. At
the University of Richmond, the number

he investigators will be able to develop a list of

undisputed facts, so that by the time it gets to the

board, the hearings are shorter and less dﬂcult for

A the parties involved”

Caroline Schmidt, Senior Member of the SFHB

to increase reporting and maintain a fair
and equitable process.”

The new investigation procedure is
expected to increase the amount of is-
sues reported because it minimalizes
the amount of times the victim has to
recount his or her story.

Often times, victims of wrongdoings
that fall under the jurisdiction of the
SFHB are reluctant to report their cases
because they do not want to have to re-
tell their story over and over again.

In the new process, two investigators

of reports increased by 200 percent, aﬁer
the civil rights investigating procedure
was implemented this term.

The SFHB would like to remind the
community that students should not be
afraid to bring a complaint forward.
There are numerous peopleon campus
who are equipped to deal with these is-
sues such as Dean Jason Rodocker, Lau-
ren Kozak and any Conﬁdential and Im-
partial Resource (CAIR).

 

 

2

 

0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24,2012

 

Reacting to Innocence

Anti-Islam video sends shock waves around the world, the country and W&L

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR V

Nakoula Basseley, a 55-year-
old California resident with a his-
tory of serious ﬁnancial problems,
jail time and failed business ven-
tures, is the man believed to have
been behind the recently-released
“Innocence of Muslims” ﬁlm.

Nakoula, an Egyptian-Ameri-
can Coptic Christian, said that he
graduated from the Faculty of Arts
at Cairo University.

In 1997, after a slew of ﬁnan-
cial issues, Nakoula was arrested
aﬁer having been found in posses-
sion of ephedrine, hydroiodic acid
and $45,000 in cash. Charged with
intent to manufacture methamphet-
amine, Nakoula pleaded guilty and
served one year in prison.

In 2010, Nakoula was again ar-
rested for bank fraud, as his most
recent hobby was stealing identi-
ties in order to open bank accounts.
While serving a two year sentence
for his most recent transgression,
Nakoula sat down and began to
write down thoughts he had for a
ﬁlm script.

He was released in 2011 and
moved into a halfway house. Just
months later, he began production
on the movie that would lead to
dozens of fatal protests across the
globe.

“Innocence of Muslims” is an
anti-Islam ﬁlm which characterizes
the Muslimpprophet Muhammad as
a homosexual, philandering child-
abuser who spouts foolish thoughts
and makes a mockery of the Islam-
ic religion.

The ﬁlm begins with Egyp-
tian Muslims attacking Egyptian
Christians by buming down their
homes, all the while the Muslim
police stand by and make no move
to interfere. A doctor and his fam-
ily take shelter in their home. The
father tells his daughter that Mus-
lims want to kill all Christians, and

 

the police, being Muslim, will not
stop them.

Later in the ﬁlm, the main
character, Muhammad, is told by
his wife that the Qur’an should
be written by mixing parts of the
Torah and the New Testament to-
gether, creating a false book of
verses. The character proceeds to
be shown having sex with his wife
and other women, allowing the
sexual abuse of children and ad-
mitting that he is gay.

The ﬁlm was shot in 5 days,
and was originally titled “Desert
Warrior.” Cast members were told
that the plot was about the after-
effects of a comet’s crash-landing
on Earth, and the battles which the
event provoked. The original script
had almost no religious content. In
fact, the anti-Islamic content was
added post-production by means
of overdubbing. Actors had no
knowledge that such editing took
place.

The movie was shown to the
public only once, as it was played
for an audience of 10 people at the
Vine Theater in Hollywood. The
ﬁlm itself was not the source of the
riots. Rather, the problem stemmed
from the 13 to 14 minute “trailers”
of the ﬁlm which were uploaded

9.

Anti-Islam video sparks Anti-American protests be-gininig in the Middle

East, Asia and Africa and moving into Europe.

onto YouTube by Sam Bacile (later
discovered to be the pseudonym
that Nakoula used).

On July 14, these trailers were
uploaded onto YouTube in the
original English. In early Sep-
tember, the trailers were uploaded
onto the website after having been
dubbed in Arabic.

7 On Sept. 8, an excerpt of one of
the trailers was played on Al-Nas
TV, an Egyptian television station.

Sept. ll saw a group of over
2,000 protestors scale the walls of
the U.S. embassy in Cairo and tear
down the American flag, replacing
it with the Islamic ﬂag. To the east,
protestors burned the US. consul-
ate and killed U.S. Ambassador J.
Christopher Stevens, along with
three of his colleagues.

The next day. President Obama

publicly addressed the video and
the reactions to it, saying: “No act
of terror will ever shake this great
nation. Justice will be done.”

Sept. 14 hosted a range of vio-
lent events. Protesters advanced
on a Multinational Force and Ob-
servers compound in Egypt, killing
two members of the peacekeeping
force.

In Tripoli, they set ﬁre to Amer-
ican fast food stores. In Sudan,
they stormed the U.S. embassy and
assaulted the security, leading to
three more deaths.

India saw protestors throw-
ing stones at the U.S. embassy in
Chennai.

In Pakistan, the crowds outside
the U.S. embassy demanded that
the producer of the ﬁlm be killed.
Further east, outside the U.S. con-
sulate, they burned the American
flag.

Tunisia received probably the
worst blow of the day, as not only
did rioters invade the U.S. em-
bassy and set trees on ﬁre, but they
also set the American Cooperative
School of Tunis ablaze, risking the
lives of children in grades Pre-K
through 12. .

Sept. I5 was the day that 46
were injured and four were killed

outside the embassy in Tunisia.
The U.S. government urged Amer-
ican citizens to leave the city.

September I6 saw police use
tear gas against the hundreds of
demonstrators that approached the
U.S. consulate in Karachi, Paki-
stan.

500 protestors attacked the U.S.
embassy in Jakaita on the 17th.

A suicide bomber killed 14
people in Afghanistan on the 18th.
And on the 20th, I00 young chil-
dren were caught on tape chanting
anti-American speech in Pakistan.

Such events have spread
throughout the Middle East, Asia,
and Africa, and have seeped into
Britain, France, and Australia.

It is speculated that Nakoula
had anticipated such a reaction.
Muslim ﬁlmmaker Kamran Pasha

has said ofthe ﬁlm. “I am of the
opinion that it is a ﬁlm of ques-
tionable artistic merit, backed by a
group of bitter bigots whose only
agenda was to incite hatred and
violence by smearing the character
of Prophet Muhammad.”

Since the attacks began, You-
Tube has faced pressure to remove
the video from the website. The
White House has asked for the
video to be taken down, question-
ing whether the ﬁlm breaches the
website’s own restrictions.

Washington and Lee students
are largely of the opinion that the
video should remain on the web-
site. The majority of polled stu-
dents reasoned that the reactions
in the Muslim world stem at least
partially from a mob mentality,
and that all this video has done has
been to provide an excuse to lash
out against America.

Google has stated that the video
is within the guidelines and will
remain on YouTube. However,
given the reactions, access to the
video has been limited in Libya
and Egypt.

But the White House is not the
only organization ordering that the
video be removed. After YouTube
refused to take the video down,

the government of Afghanistan
blocked the website altogether.
Following suit was Saudia Arabia,
Indonesia and India.

Cindy Lee Garcia also has a
stake in the video being removed.
An actress in the movie, Garcia is
suing Nakoula, claiming that she
is the victim of fraud, invasion of
privacy, and misappropriation of
her likeness.

“He said he wrote the script
because he wants the Muslims to
stop killing,” Garcia said in an in-
terview with CNN. “I had no idea
he was doing all this.”

Cast members of “Innocence”
released a statement last week say-
ing they were “extremely upset
and feel taken advantage of by the
producer.” Further, said they are
“deeply saddened by the tragedies
that have occurred.”

Garcia claims to have received
death-threats since the attacks
started. Her request to have the
video taken off the YouTube web-
site was denied by Los Angeles
County Superior Court Judge Luis
Lavin as a result of a federal law
that protects third parties from li-
ability for content they handle.

In an interview with the Asso-
ciated Press, Jeremiah Reynolds,
Los Angeles attorney and special-
ist in intellectual property and
First Amendment cases, notes,
“Although it is a much more seri-
ous situation, the [legal] analysis
should be the same. It’s an act that
is protected by the First Amend-
merit.”

Meanwhile, Nakoula has disap-
peared. Having lived until recently
at his home in Cerritos, CA, he
packed up his family and slipped
quietly into the night on Septem-
ber 16. His whereabouts today are
unknown.

 

 

\‘~“

' ~‘7II0'19 "-
By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

23 Americans found guilty of
abduction of Egyptian cleric

A group of 23 American citizens — 22 of whom were CIA
agents — were found guilty by Italian appeals courts for the
abduction of an Egyptian cleric, Abu Omar, from Milan. The
abduction took place in 2003, however the courts have just re-
cently come to a ﬁnal sentence. Ofﬁcials believe the agents are
living in the US and are thus unlikely to serve their sentences.

French magazine publishes
controversial cartoon '

Last Friday, a French magazine published a cartoon that
depicted the Prophet Muhammad. The cartoon could be taken
as highly offensive to Islamic societies, especially in the wake
of the anti-Islam video, “Innocence of Muslims.” As a result,
France is closing their embassies and schools in 20 countries.
French security has also been deployed as a precautionary mea-
sure in these areas. A

Russian executives plan for
nuclear expansion

Russian executives are throwing themselves behind the
“nuclear renaissance.” The country is currently making plans
for nuclear expansion both at home and abroad. According to
research conducted by the Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting,
Russia plans to have 38 nuclear reactors at home and 28 over-
seas by 2030.

Suicide bomber in Somalia
kills at least 15 people

Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, was attacked on Thurs-
day. A suicide bomber targeted a restaurant in the center of the
city. At least 15 people were killed and several more were in-
jured. Among the dead are two Somali journalists. Many oﬁ’i-
cials believe the restaurant was targeted because it is a popular
place for journalists, government workers, and foreigners. This
bombing follows a failed assassination attempt on the new So-
mali president.

Iran and Israel in conflict over
nuclear free Middle East

At the annual meeting of the UN atomic agency, Iran and
Israel reached a point of great conﬂict. The agency’s efforts are
aimed towards creating a nuclear weapon free-Middle East. Iran
pointed a ﬁnger at Israel, as it is the one of the only countries
of the I55 included in the meeting that has not signed onto the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Meanwhile, Israel pointed a
ﬁnger at Iran for continuing to proliferate while hiding behind
the ruse of the‘ treaty.

80 percent of W&L students polled said that YouTube should
leave up the trailers for “lnnocence of Muslims.”

 

  

 

  

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 Health Center readies for ﬂu season

The student health center oﬂers ﬂu shots for students in order to prevent outbreaks in the upcoming season

   lPoliti

 

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

In 2009, W&L was one of the ﬁrst
college campuses to be struck by the

out, and W&L could be ‘assured that it.
was prepared to deal with any ﬂu that

he larger proportion ofthe student population

that we can get immunized, the faster an outbreak

stops because there is not as much of a-susceptible

population to spread it to. ’

Dr. Horton, Student Health center

1

swine ﬂu epidemic. According to Dr.
Jane Horton, Director of Student Health
and Counseling Services, the school
quickly involved the Health Department
and Center for Disease Control, keeping
the ill-stricken in the Health Center and
Woods Creek apartments.

“We were following the recom-
mendations from the CDC at that time,
which was to isolate anyone who was
confirmed to have swine ﬂu for seven
days,” said Horton.

The school was having press confer-
ences, notifying parents, and taking ini-
tiative to educate the student body about
ﬂu prevention. With time, however, stu-
dents were healed, the disease ﬁzzled

came its way.

This year, the Student Health Center
is offering ﬂu shots 24/7—with the ex-
ception of mealtimes from 12 p.m. to 1
p.m. and 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.

The Health Center is adamant about
encouraging students to get their shots
soon. According to the CDC, it takes
two weeks after vaccination for the body
to build up immunity to inﬂuenza, and
although this is a short amount of time,
some say that it is better to get vaccinat-
ed now rather than later.

“We encourage people to start get-
ting them now—late September to early
October,” said Horton. She added that
the ﬂu has been seen at W&L as early as

mid-December before exams, but most
often in January, February, or March.

“If the only time you can come and
get your ﬂu shot is one in the morning,
we are here,” said Horton.

The Health Center will also be offer-
ing “Flu Vaccine Clinics” on Oct. 10 on
the main ﬂoor of Leybum Library from
9:30 to 11 a.m. and outside the Market-
place from ll:30 am. to l p.m., as well
as Oct. 16 from 11:30 a.m. to l p.m. out-
side the Marketplace and from 1:30 p.m.

. to 3 p.m. outside ofthe library. A $20 fee

will be charged, but students will receive
a receipt for their insurance and hope-
fully be able to swipe home. V

Even if a student is not vaccinated
by December, Horton assured students
that they can still get vaccinated into the
winter.

“We will still give them during winter
term or any time after we start seeing ﬂu-
like illness,” Horton said.

Horton said she encourages everyone
to jump on the bandwagon with the other
400 to 600 who usually get vaccinated
annually by the school.

“The larger proportion of the student
population that we can get immunized,
the faster an outbreak stops because
there is not as much of a susceptible

population to spread it to,” said Horton.
She added that the ﬂu can spread fast

up to a week and a half,” said'Ho1ton.
”Missing school for a week during any

Flu Vaccine Clinic Dates/Locations

Oct. 1 0

9:30 a. m. to 11 am. —- mainﬂoor of

Leyburn Library

]1.'30.a.m. to I p.m.——outside the

Marketplace
Oct ; I 6

11:30 a. m. to I p.m.—- outside the

Marketplace

1 :30 p. m. to 3 p. m.-— outside of the

library.
$20 fee

at W&L due to sharing food and cups at
parties, where swine-ﬂu investigations
concluded were the breeding grounds
for the illness.

“The ﬂu can really wipe you out for

given term can make it really hard to

catch up.”

4

 

  

lorgs.

t the ground running

College Democrats and. College Republicans run initial meetings for the new school year and the new election season

By Richard Karlson
STAFF WRITER

College Republicans pacl<”Sailerno’s_forltA W

The College Democrats and College
Republicans have been hard at work for
the past few weeks in order to get ready
for the upcoming school year and the
upcoming Presidential election. Both
groups realize how important the com-
ing months will be for not only the Presi-
dential election, but also for the critical
Allen/Kaine US Senate race in Virginia.

The two groups ’ have expressed

how excited they are about the coming
months, citing their ﬁrst meetings of the
year as the source for their excitement.

The College Republicans met on
Sept.l6 at Salerno’s Family Restaurant
for their ﬁrst meeting; they had over 80
students attend, and over 40 of those
students signed up for volunteering op-
portunities, and another 10 students were
registered to vote in Virginia.

The College Democrats ﬁrst met on
Sept. 13 at the Hillel House, where 25
students attended; the meeting consisted
of hearing speeches from the two sec-
retary candidates within the group, and
spoke about the upcoming Romney-
Obama Presidential debate.

Both groups have been hard at work
advertising for their respective Presiden-
tial nominees, Mitt Romney and Barack

,  meie-tlngljl‘  the year. Over 80pstutientaiwerelinyattendance.

Obama.

The College Republicans have been
working at the phone bank at the Rom-
ney Victory Center in Buena Vista, as
well as going door to door in the Rock-
bridge County. They have also been rep-
resenting “Students for Romney” at such
rallies as the Labor Day Parade in Buena
Vista.

The College Democrats have been

working with the Organizing for Amer-

ica organization, which is the grassroots v

support team created to reelect President
Obama. The group has also said that
they knocked on over 1000 doors in the
Rockbridge area advocating for Obama.

Both groups are also looking to regis-
ter as many students to vote as possible
for the coming election.

 

 

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI '

M O N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

opinions

 

What would Bob do?

Does being a gentleman stop with lying, cheating and stealing?

By Julianna Satterly
EDITOR IN CHIEF

“We have but one rule here, and it is
that every man be a gentleman.”

becomes a part of us, and it deeply of-
fends us when someone breaks our trust.

Being a gentleman embodies civility and respect,
not just adherence to the law. He [Robert E. Lee]

expected more of us.

s

I’m sure all of you reading this can
easily name the man who said it. But
how many of us really think about what
it means? The majority of students at
Washington and Lee only see the Honor
System as it pertains to the student body
in three ways: lying, cheating and steal-
ing. For those of us lucky enough to
avoid a violation, the only tangible evi-
dence of its presence is the Pledge.

The Honor System is a truly impres-
sive institution, if you consider that it is
wholly maintained by students. It allows
professors to give take-home tests with
no fear, or for us to leave our laptops,
iPhones and tablets in the library for
hours. And most students believe that it
holds the same impact during a student’s
four-year tenure. Over time, students of
this University absorb the System_until
it permeates their own belief systems. It

The Honor System is not a guideline that
governs our time here; it becomes a ﬁber
of our being. ‘

From the outside, W&L looks like a
University full of upstanding and moral
citizens who live and breathe the mes-
sage of our fearless leader, Robert E.
Lee. When all other colleges fail to
trust their students, we stand as a shin-
ing beacon of morality and justice. And
for the most part, that is true. We do not
lie, cheat or steal, nor tolerate those who
do. Indulge me for a moment though, as
I burrow a little further below the surface
of a school where image is everything.
In my opinion, there is a rather large gap
between “being a gentleman” and spe-
ciﬁc instances of honor violations. What
about all the other acts I’m quite certain
Mr. Lee would never have considered
gentlemanly? When he created the Hon-

or System here he did not say, “We have
but three rules here, and they are that no
student will lie, cheat or steal.” No, he
said everyone should be a gentleman. If
you really ponder its meaning, he gave
us a blueprint for the rest of our lives.
Being a gentleman embodies civility and
respect, not just adherence to the law. He
expected more of us.

On the whole, I think we do a fantas-

 

tic job as gentlemen and gentlewomen.
In my two years here I have never had
to open a door if there was a guy within
ten feet of me. The two most common
words on the Hill are “sir” and “ma’am,”
and the Speaking Tradition is alive and
well. But we do have room for improve-
ment. Maybe we could adopt the aero-
nym WWBD—what would Bob do?-
for guidance. Think the next time you’re

about to become one of the rabid mob
that plagues the Windfall Traveller stop.
Or when you hear someone spread a ru-
mor about a girl in a different sorority.
It’s deﬁnitely not WWBD to brag about
your weekend hookups. Don’t think I’m
standing above you on a soapbox about
a mile high. I am guilty of all of these
gentlemanly crimes, just the same as ev-
eryone else. '

The '1: of gab

Politicians shoul ditch the TV teleprompter quips and get cracking

By Yates Wilburn
STA F F w R I T E R -

Growing up, Mom always told me,
“no one builds a stop light until some-
one dies in a car crash.” A harsh truth to
hear at a young age, yes, but it taught me
something crucial about human nature.

People will bury their heads in the
sand and avoid their problems as long as
humanly possible, only to ﬁnally address
them when someone gets hurt. We’ve
seen this on the international stage re-
cently through the ongoing violence in
the Middle East revolving around an am-
ateurish anti-Islamic video, resulting in
the deaths of US Ambassador to Libya J.
Christopher Stephens as well as several
across the region.

In a presidential election that has
been entirely consumed with the econ-
omy, jobs, and Congressional partisan-
ship, foreign policy has ﬁnally taken
its rightful place at the top of the list of
campaign issues. After all, representing
and protecting US interests abroad is one
of the few explicitly stated duties of the
President. It only took dozens of people
to lose their lives to get the candidates to
talk about it.

Until the recent violence, the
most we could get out of either Presi-
dent Obama or Governor Romney was
the occasional “China is cheating” or “a
nuclear Iran is unacceptable” or the al-

WASHINGTON AND In Uurvnzsmr

THE RING-TUMPHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-TUM PHI to
accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting the
Washington and Lee community for students, faculty, parents and
alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news affecting campus life
and to hold leaders accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering information that

prompts change. I

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a member of The'Medla Board,
which can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise
independent.THE RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and

advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-TUM
PHI staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of

libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI ‘
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEX-INGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER '
GRAHAM COLTON

SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
JANEY FUGATE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RICHARD KARLSON
MARGARET LEER
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEY RUSSELL
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

ALLIE WEISS
COY FERRELL

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

ways fashionable “we’re winning in Af-
ghanistan” (something my mom also has
much to say about). The media and the
public at large might be able to get both
candidates to elaborate on their tax plans
for an additional 15 seconds, but any de-
tails on their foreign policy beyond the
usual sound bites was absolutely hope-
less.

Now, to be fair, the ‘President has

merit, “It’s the economy, stupid.” Only
when Americans outside of a warzone
are dying, do we as a nation require fur-
ther explanation of their foreign policy
agendas. And even now, it seems that
a large part of the discussion regarding
America’s geopolitical challenges (Iran,
Syria, the Middle East at large, the South
and East China Sea) revolves around
only two courses of action: full blown

The American people must demand more than just

one-liners from their candidates when it comes to

foreign policy.

delved into a bit more detail on his opin-
ions on Israel, Iran, and China, but only
because he’s already the President and
has the entire State Department at his
disposal to speak on his administration’s
behalf. Hillary ClintonAwho I as a Re-
publican would say has been a fantastic
Secretary of State-—has played a large
role in this matter, using her extensive
experience and knowledge to beef up the
White House’s foreign policy creden-
tials. Still, Mr. Romney has done his best
to give an opinion on particular foreign
policy issues when the context arises,
though not with nearly as much grace
and tact as he did in his 2009 book “No
Apology.”

All criticism aside, the candi-
dates are only responding to the interests
of their potential voters, who still hold
true to James Carville’s historic assess-

I

conﬂict or no action whatsoever.

Personally, I ﬁnd this disheartening.
It seems that the citizens of this country
have been conditioned to believe that if
we can’t make war, then we are utterly
hopeless to meet the challenges of our
generation.

A huge crux of America’s strength
is our ability to meet international chal-
lenges with a diversity of possible so-
lutions, both soft and hard power. Eco-
nomics, diplomacy, clandestine actions,
and yes, limited and large scale military
action can all be used and combined to
reach a preferable outcome for America
and her allies. However, since the Amer-
ican people have narrowed foreign poli-
cy down to war or no action at all, they
have received talk of little else from their
candidates when issues of international
relations come up.

My point is this: the American people
must demand more than just one-liners
from their candidates when it comes to
foreign policy. When a candidate says,
“As President, I will renegotiate our
trade relations with China”, ask them,
“How would you do that? Do you real-
ize the implications of such actions, or
even of such language?” When Gover-
nor Romney or President Obama says,
“A nuclear Iran is unacceptable”, ask
them, “What do you want to do about
it? Do you want to strike against their
nuclear facilities? What will China think
about that? Will the use of Azerbaijan’s
airspace for such a strike anger Rus-
sia in any way? What would you do to
prevent this from spiraling into a larger
conﬂict?” These are incredibly basic
questions that even someone as stupid as
I could at least start to answer with some
clarity. '

However, at least on the issue of
Iranian nukes, I won’t hold my breath.
With Republicans screaming for war
in Iran and Democrats refusing to “set
deadlines” it seems that war is the only
outcome through either tactic. In my
humble opinion, it seems that neither
party has ever played poker, and doesn’t
understand the value of protecting one’s
cards or a good bluff to force a peace-
ﬁsl resolution to a conﬂict of interests. I
shudder to think what would have hap-
pened during the Cold War if we had the
posturing, blabbermouth leadership that
we have today.

  

as ,

 

 

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

5 ‘I THE RING-TUM PHI 0'

 

pinions

_ A crime most fowl  

' How Californians ’ freedoms fall victim to ducking the issues

By JP Beall
OPINIONS EDITOR

This last summer, another substance
made it’s way onto the contraband list in
the great Fool’s Golden State amid tor-
rents of ﬁery controversy, and no, it’s not
tobacco or anything you can smoke. The
substance in question is the French liver
pate’, foie gras, which is now strictly
banned in both sale and production in the
state of California.

For the unfamiliar, foie gras is a paté
made from livers of farrn-raised ducks or
geese who are force-fed for a period to
make the liver larger and fattier. Animal
rights activists found the practice inhu-
mane and demanded California put a



stop to it.

The law stipulates that no bird should
be fed “more food than a typical bird of

the same species would consume volun-

tarily.” Between this, and other vagaries,
farmers are ﬁnding it impossible to com-
pete in the Californian market, a multi-
million dollar industry every year.

As of July 1, the prohibition passed
into effect. Anyone producing or selling

foie gras made from force-fed foul is to
be ﬁned as much as $1000 per day under
the new law.

The week before the ban dropped, the
news was ﬂush with reports of foie gras
parties, where restaurants in possession
of the illicit good were closing out their
stocks, drawing huge crowds to eat foie
gras like it was going out of style.

Producers ﬁled a request to halt the
enforcement of the law with the Los An-
geles US District Judge, Stephen Wil-
son, before it went into effect, but their

request was denied.

Said Brian Pease, the lawyer for the

Animal Protection and Rights League,
“It’s not a question for the courts to sec-
ond guess a political branch of govern-
ment.” ‘ .
Of course, the arrogance of Califor-
nian “open-mindedness” has caused a bit
of an international incident, by offending
none other than the French, for ignoring
the deep cultural roots in such a dish. An
oversight, I’m sure.

To many in France,foie gras is an im-
portant cultural institution, and the Cali-
fornian ban has drawn comment from

even the French president, Francois Hol-
lande.

Moreover, there is now a movement
in France now boycotting Californian

wines because of the ban, and a growing
lobby of French politicians who are eye-
ing wines as a way ofreturning the favor,
as they “feel compelled to react.”

In reality though, the ban of foie

compound interest, and then borrow
those funds to pay for Lord-knows-what
is another thing. Recently, four cities in
California have gone bankrupt. Nowhere
else in America has this happened.

State politicians are more concerned with the appe-
tite of ducks than with the general administration of

their state.

gras is not all that effective, because ac-
cording to today’s LA Times, high-end
restaurants across the state are already
beginning to give the pate as an accom-
paniment to the meal, “compliments of
the chef,” which is exactly what hap-
pened during Prohibition. One might
have thought legislators would have
studied those loopholes before passing
their version. One might have thought,
but apparently they didn’t.

California is called a “nanny state”
countrywide, and foie gras only joins
a distinguished and long list of other
goods to be made illegal by.Sacramento,
including most ﬁrearms, wood burning
ﬁreplaces, and spring diving boards, just
to name a few.

Tobacco is taxed at a rate of 32% and
there are always talks about further re-
stricting the already few locations avail-
able for smokers to use because of the
health detriments of smoke of any kind.
Of course, marijuana is hailed as a won-
der cure,'and appears to be exempt from
any arguments previously made against
other smoking substances.

Besides that, there are several other
things going on that ought to be outright
illegal. In times where states are begin-
ning to check IDs for voting, California
is issuing drivers licenses to undocu-
mented individuals, because state of-
ﬁcials do not ﬁnd that citizenship and
other government documents for proof-
of-residence are necessary anymore.

Heck, when I was in Chicago over
the summer, I needed proof-of-residence
to get a library card at the city’s public
library!

The ability for the government to
promise pensions without regard for

One such city, San Bemardino, was
in debt over $40 million and had been
cooking their books for twenty years.

Complaints against ﬁnancial mal-
practice at the city and county levels
have been brought to the state in the past,
and state officials as a manner of policy
turn such complaints back to the city and
county ﬁrst.

This is when I take issue with the
term “nanny state,” because California is
no such place. State politicians are more
concerned with the appetite of ducks
than with the general administration of
their state, which in times of economic
hardship and with the country’s largest
deﬁcit, is in some serious need of reform.

Don’t believe me? The state’s con-
stitution is a book, and it. has hundreds
upon hundreds of contradictory amend-

ments. It is impossible for any important *“

law to get through the Assembly and a

budget has rarely been passed on time T‘

years.
I hope that these examples have ‘yau
thinking. About your home state, /be it
Texas, Virginia, New Jersey, or wher-
ever. Times may be bad, but hopefully
this can give you a little more optimism
in your own respective areas. On the
surface, I give you permission to laugh.
It is funny, and with all the potshots ﬂy-
ing around during the Presidential cam-
paign, we all could use a little humor.
Also, I hope it has you thinking about
constitutionality. What should be and

what shouldn’t, because we are in times_

when even the most elementary concepts
of an American rule of law are coming
under question. And most importantly,
what are you going to do about it?'""

 

 
    
 

     
 
  

, Letter from the presidents: Calling all politicos!
It’s the most important publication. campus regarding questions many consequences, but
election in a generation! We understand that of the principle and the also allows us to shape
You ’ve heard this phrase College Republicans and practical. Moreover, we America for our generation
over and over again. Is it College Democrats do encourage everyone to be a and the generations to
pandering, or are we really not represent the entire part of it. follow. As voters, we ask
at political crossroads? political spectrum on This November, we you to engage in political
. This election cycle, campus. As such, there all bear a very real discourse, and value your
0' College Republicans and will be a short counter- responsibility - the duty citizenship.
College Democrats will point article accessible to of the active citizen.‘ Its a
begin a joint venture, any student for the topic is big responsibility that Lex, President of College
with the Ring—tum Phi following publication. ' _‘_ . carries Republicans
as our medium. Each We mean for thii .\ ' .0 I ‘ -7'   &
organization will choose opinion series ._ Todd, Presidentof
A a representative to author , to develop an College Democrats\'
.’ an op-ed; the topics and intellectual
authors will vary by conversation on
O

 

  

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

arts&life

 

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

Hillel honors High Holidays

Students, faculty, and community members gather to celebrate Rosh Hashanah with dinner, services and festivities

By Caroline Hamp
STA FF WRITER

Last week, Hillel celebrated Rosh
Hashanah from sundown on Sunday,
Sept. 16, to sundown on Tuesday, Sept.
18. For those non-Jewish folks out there,
Rosh Hashanah is the Jewish New Year,
and historically signiﬁes the anniversary
of the creation of Adam and Eve.

Here on campus, Hillel is an orga-
nization which strives to incorporate
student involvement in all aspects, and
Rosh Hashanah was no different. In-
stead of a Rabbi speaking during the ma-
jority of the evening service, students led
the way, reciting prayers and performing
rituals. One revered ritual was blowing
the Shofar, which is a ram horn blown
only during the High Holidays. Another
favorite was eating apples and honey,
because anyone in the Jewish commu-

  

nity will know about the importance of
food!

An estimated 70 guests attended the
dinner, and the crowd included law stu-
dents, undergraduates, and other people
from the Lexington community. Most
of them stayed for the service that fol-
lowed. .

“There was a great feeling of commu-
nity,” said Hillel President Sammy Ros-
ier ‘l4. “We had a
big group of people.
Alot of law students
showed up, plus we
have a good group
of ﬁrst-years.”

Thankfully, Hil-
lel has such a strong
sense of commu-

nity, because celebrating a huge holiday
away from family can be hard. Unlike
W&L’s Christian students who typically
go home during Christmas and the New
Year, Jewish students have to rely on
each other to observe this valued tradi-
tion. Family is a big part ofthe holidays,
and Hillel recognizes that fact.

‘‘It’s only the third year Hillel has
celebrated Rosh Hashanah in Lexing- _

 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 

2... .4...  .-

ton. In fact, it’s the third year that any
large group of people has celebrated
Rosh Hashanah in Lexington,” added
Rosier. .“It’s nice to see such community
involvement.”

Rosh Hashanah was certainly a hit,
but Hillel’s festivities don’t end there!
This upcoming week, Hillel will be
celebrating Yom Kippur, which is usu-
ally viewed as the holiest holiday for the

Jewish commu-

nity. It begins
at sundown on
Tuesday.

The two High
Holidays may
only be ten days
apart, but they do
differ signiﬁcant-

   

ly. In contrast to the celebratory attitude
of Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur is more
solemn and reﬂective. It is a time to ask
for forgiveness for sins.

“It’s not necessarily sad, though,”
said Rosier. “This holiday season is an
optimistic time. It’s like starting new.”

Yom Kippur’s events are completely
open to W&L students with an RSVP.

Hillel also participates in festivities out- ,

side of the holiday season: every Friday
night, it hosts a Shabbat dinner for all
campus and community members.
If you are interested in participating
in any of these events, please contact
Sammy Rosier at rosiersI4@mail.wlu.
edu or Brett Schwartz at bschwartz@
wlu.edu.

  

nfrm cruitmtzcoded   '

Informal recruitment got you stressed? Don 2‘ be; this could be a great few weeks

By Margaret Leer
STAFF WRITE R

Have you been noticing an unusual
amount of activity in the quad recently?
Or maybe you’ve been catching the
game at a fraternity house instead of
your dorm room? That’s right boys and
girls: informal recruitment season has
ofﬁcially kicked off. Whether you’re
drinking more coffee than usual or play-
ing video games with upperclassmen
guys, just the name “informal recruit-
ment” can be pretty intimidating.

The reality is, these should be some
of the most exciting weeks of your col-
lege career. Panhellenic Recruitment
Chair Kaelin Fraley ‘l3 said it best:
“Informal recruitment is such a positive
aspect of Washington and Lee’s recruit-
ment process [because] it allows all ﬁrst-
years, who are interested in joining one
of the chapters, the time to adjust ﬁrst to
the rigorous academic and social sched-

ules that can be so demanding when en-
tering a college community.”

The late recruitment process allows
each and every student to meet all of the
upperclassmen at Washington and’Lee,
a chance that isn’t even possible at most
larger schools. Said Fraley: “First-years

' have the opportunity to get to know up-

perclassmen on a personal level and ex-
perience many of the other great ways
they can be involved on campus besides
Greek life.”

Though the process can seem a little
nerve-wracking, Interfratemity Council
Vice President and Recruitment Chair
Jon Hale ‘l3 gives great advice “to
maintain a relaxed approach during in-
formal recruitment and enjoy the situa-
tion as much as possible.”

According to Hale, “the process
should be treated as neither an interview

nor a test, but instead as an opportunity
to meet fellow students and ﬁnd a sup-
portive niche in new social surround-
ings. While some of those hoping to join
the Greek system may hope to impress
with uncharacteristic behavior, I strong-
ly feel it is instead in their best interest
to present themselves candidly. This
should lead to students ﬁnding a fra-
ternity or sorority that most accurately
compliments their personality.”

So take advantage. of this time and
really get to know everyone on campus.
It’s one of the major pros of going to a
small school with a delayed rush system.
The Greek men and women of W&L
keep the tradition of recruitment alive by
making it a fun and positive experience
for everyone. You only get to go through
this process once - enjoy it!

In between spaces

Sophomore Janey F ugate reﬂects on her stay in Lexington is own Walden-inspired cabin

By Janey Fugate
STAFF wnmsn

",a'l.—’- ‘ «

. . '3.

Pictured above: A photograph of He

    

" 4,-.‘v 

nry David Thoreau’s actual

cabin at Walden Pond oustlde of Concord, Ma.

 

The glint of sunlight on the tin roof
led me to the cabin. I wouldn’t have no-
ticed it nestled in the forest otherwise.
Built by alumnus Henri Hammond-Paul
last year, the cabin is inspired by Thore-
au’s Walden and is intended to be a place
of rest and reﬂection.

Entering the cabin, the smell of raw
cut wood and spicy resin hits me instant-
ly. The austerity of the place strikes me
next. A coil of rope, a lamp, and a broom
are the only objects inside the cabin. I
found myself a little unnerved by its
emptiness. What do I expect to gain from
secluding myself for a night? I’m not yet
so tired of the academic grind and the
party scene that I need a break from it
all. Lacking an answer, I wandered.

I returned just before nightfall. It
came into my mind that if one comes to
the woods to seek true quiet he should
seek it elsewhere. Cicada chirps and
crow caws cut the air. A redheaded
Woodpecker hammered vigorously at the
tree trunk to my right. And if the tree is
nature’s harp, the wind is the muse that
plays it.- A

But it wasn’t as pleasant as all that.

The nastiest spider I’ve ever encoun-
tered disturbed me so much that I chose
not to sleep on the cabin floor. At around
midnight, I hiked to .a cattle pasture on
the other side of the woods and slept be-
neath the stars there.

Wood. Wild. Walden.

Those three words share the same
Germanic root wald. Variants of the root
have come to mean ‘.‘a wild place” or
a “wooded place.” I learned this from
reading Robert MacFarlane’s The Wild
Places. A professor at Cambridge, Mac-
Farlane writes about his solitary wander-
ings through the British Isles. In visit-
ing what he deems truly wild places, he
connects the physical nature of the place
with its history and with his own pres-
ence there.

While I would hardly call the back
campus woods wild, the idea of wild-
ness is woven into the very name of
the forest, the name of this cabin. Fol-
lowing MacFarlane’s thoughts about
the ability of the land to bear the emo-
tions and impressions of the people who
havecrossed it, I wondered about the
nature of this place and the land around

it. Forests have mythically been known
as “in between places.” I did feel very
in between, so to speak. In snatches, I
could hear music from parties ﬂoating
through the darkness - a reminder of
what I would be doing if I were not at
the Walden cabin.

So again, I wondered why I was there.
The answer I came to is this: I was there

to suck the marrow out of that place, to .

taste the forest in a way I haven’t before,
and to chew on thoughts that are born
from real solitude. I was there to ﬁll an
empty space.

Now, back to move within rhythms of 0

school, I carry with me a new thread to
weave seamlessly into the fabric of my
experience here. I believe that has value
in and of itself.

Let me end by answering the ques-
tion of why would I publish this, as it
is highly personal and doesn’t seem to
have a deﬁnitive purpose. I am not sure
myself. Perhaps I wrote this, because in
the words of Into the Wild’s Chris Mc-
Candless, “happiness is only real when
it’s shared.” So be it.

 

  

   
    
    

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

7 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

KYLE JAEGER

   

 

The college football Presidential Over-
sight Committee has voted to enstate a
four-team playoff system starting in 2014.
This seems to be a popular choice, as many
fans grew tired of the current BCS bowl
system. Many argue that change will be
good for the sport. I disagree. College foot-
ball, more than any other collegiate sport,
is steeped in tradition. The game has been
led by a select group of schools, based on
their storied success and commitment to
the game. A four-team playoff could take
away from the legacy and tradition that
football has always been deﬁned by.

Furthermore, the change in the BCS is
not drastic enough to make a great deal
of difference. Superpowers like Alabama,
LSU and USC will continue to make up
these top four teams. The biggest com-
plaint many supporters of the new system
have made in the past is that non-traditional
teams don’t get a fair shake. Will this real-
ly be different under the new system? This
system is not like March Madness, and it’s
not even like the NFL playoffs. Very few
teams will have a chance under this new
system, and it is likely that the ones who
do will be the same each year. Under the
old system, alternative teams could dream
of going undefeated and cracking the top
5, awarding them a bowl game. It seems
that under this new system the chances that
underdog teams will succeed in any form
is greatly reduced.

Fans are illegitimately excited about
this change. I am arguing that this change
is only marginal. A four-team playoff will

IIAILEY lI1\l{'l‘LllY

 

be exciting to watch,
but an eight team play-
off would be even bet-
ter. I believe that the
change the committee

 
       
  
  

This summer a
committee of col-
lege presidents ap-
proved a four-team
playoff system that

made should have been
more drastic in order to
make a difference. If a
playoff is going to be
enstated, why not cre-

The debate over whether colle e football
should have a bowl system or a ayotf system
has been going on for years. Co
is making the switch in 2014 and as stirred
the debate.
Kyle and Hailey give you their takes.

will end the reign
of the traditional
bowl system be-
ginning in 2014.
While the system

e football

ate a bigger stage?

The committee was
too worried about polarizing its audience,
and it limited itself because of this. I think
that the committee should have taken the
risk to make it eight teams because it was
one worth taking. Because the change in
the system is only a slight one, I believe
college football‘ would have been better
off sticking with the old systemjwhich
has been around since the beginning. If
the current system could create and estab-
lish the game we all love to watch, what is
the point in making a minimal change like
this one? The cons outweigh the pros here.
There are still lingering questions about the
selection process and revenue distribution.
It seems this issue is more complex than
a simple shift in postseason format. How
will the major sponsors of bowl games re-
act to this change? How will the various
prominent athletic conferences feel about
this change? This shift will create many
more problems than it will ﬁx. This an-
nouncement is just the tip of the iceberg.
In 2014, I believe we will see the problems
with this decision.

won’t be perfect,
(and probably nev-
er will be), it is a change that is needed
for the current college system.

Fans of’ Division 1 college football
have been treated to the sight of an SEC
team raising the crystal football for
the last six years, including last year’s
champions, the Alabama Crimson Tide.
The win by the Tide is a perfect ex-
ample of exactly why a playoff system
is needed. Alabama did not even win
the SEC‘ championship, and many ar-
gued that they did not deserve to play in
the national championship game. De-
spite this, Alabama went on to play in
and win the national championship in a
dominating fashion over LSU, the SEC
champions. Had the computer (don’t
even get me started) found Oklahoma
State to be the second best team in the
country, we could have seen a much
different result at the end of the season.

I think that the playoff system will
help improve the future of college foot-
ball. The addition of the system will
allow more teams, other than the com-
manding SEC, to be included in nation-
al championship talks. Yes, USC was

in there for a while, but really, we all
see how long that lasted. This season,
teams like FSU and Oregon will have
to wait for LSU and Alabama to trip up
before they can be in contention for the
national championship. And while a
win is a win, we can look at this week-
end’s games, LSU barely beat a strug-
gling, unranked Auburn, while F SU
had a commanding win over top ten
Clemson. The difference between» the
number two team and the number three

or four team may be inconsequential,"

like a last minute ﬁeld goal or a poor
call by a referee.

The playoff system is by no means
perfect. While this year we may argue
that the number three team deserved to
play in the championship, in two years
we may be arguing that the number ﬁve
team deserved to be in the playoffs.
We have to take what we can get; four
teams will be getting the opportunity
of a lifetime as opposed to just two.
Teams will need to show a little more
consistency to win the championship,
and they’ll have to play against the best
in the league to prove it. Potential BCS
busters will probably still be on the out-

side looking in, but the way divisions’

are changing these days, that may be a
shrinking issue.

The size of the league makes it im-
possible to make everyone happy, but
I believe that come 2014 we’ll see the
playoff as a major improvement to the
current system. Maybe we’ll see some-
one besides an SEC member take home
the one “W” that matters.

Generals split ODAC play this week

Ward takes charge against Randolph-Macon for the victory

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s soc-
cer team fell 1-0 on Saturday to Virginia
Wesleyan.

It is the ﬁrst conference loss for the
Generals this season.

The Generals had early chances
against the 14th-ranked Marlins but
were unable to capitalize. Just a few
minutes into the contest, the Generals
had back-to-back shots on goal. Mar-
lins goalkeeper, junior Erica Keil, saved
sophomore midﬁelder Haley Ward’s shot
before saving sophomore forward Katie
Rossi’s shot.

Ward led the way for the Generals

with ﬁve shots, three of which were on
target.

The main difference in the game
came in the 39th minute when ﬁrst-year
forward Samantha Sanders kicked a
loose ball from eight yards out past Gen-
erals goalkeeper Addie Healy.

Healy made two saves while playing
the entire 90 minutes in the net.

Earlier in the week the Generals de-
feated ODAC opponent Emory & Henry
3-0. Scoring for the Generals was Ward
and junior forward Jasmine Soo. Ward
scored her ﬁfth on the season on a pen-
alty kick in the 25th minute. Soo scored

her fourth and ﬁfth on the season in the
second half of the game.

The Generals dominated E&H, tak-
ing 20 shots on goal while keeping the
Wasps to just three. None of the Wasps’
shots were on target.

The Generals also took ﬁve comer
kicks while keeping the Wasps to just
one.

For the Wasps, junior goalkeeper Sar-
ah Jerome made eight saves while play-
ing the full time in the net.

After the weekend, W&L moves to
5-2 overall with a 3-1 ODAC record.
They host Bridgewater on Wednesday.

 

Forward Katie Rossi
Courtesy of generalssports.com

Football cruises past 23rd ranked Centre in home opener

Heinsohn leads the charge for the Generals

By Sarah Ward

STAFF WRITER

 

Running back Luke Heinsolin
Courtesy of generaIssports.com

 

The Washington and Lee football
team scored twenty unanswered points
to reach a 34-10 lead with nine minutes
left, leading to an eventual 34-16 win
over the Centre College Colonels in Lex-
ington last Saturday, Sept. 15.

Junior tight end Alex Evans made
two touchdown catches for the Gener-
als (2-l), accumulating 67 yards on three
passes from junior quarterback Nick
Lombardo. Evans posted the ﬁrst points
for W&L, making a 39 yard catch for
a touchdown with 12:31 left in the ﬁrst
quarter. Evans later capped a Generals’
fourth quarter scoring run with a 9-yard
reception in the end zone with 9:33 left
in the game.

Senior running back Luke Heinsohn
continued to show his versatility by rush-
ing for two touchdowns as well as suc-

cessfully scoring on three extra point kick
attempts. Heinsohn made a two yard run
across the goal line and then completed
the extra point attempt to give the Gen-
erals a 14-3 lead with two minutes left
in the ﬁrst quarter. Heinsohn later scored
with 3:55 left in the third quarter, making‘
a 28-yard run but missing the extra point
attempt. This marks the ﬁrst missed extra
point by the Generals in 104 attempts.

Senior running back Brett Murray
provided 120 rushing yards and one
touchdown for the Generals. His touch-
down came on a 17-yard run with 6:53
left in the second quarter.

The Generals’ defense played well
under the lights and provided opportuni-
ties for the W&L offense to get the ball
back and put points on the board. Junior
linebacker Peter Partee ﬁred up the de-

fense by blocking a punt after a failed
Centre drive to put the Generals on the
Colonels’ 38-yardline. Junior comerback
Mitchell Thompson was exemplary for
the Generals on defense with ten total
tackles, nine of which were unassisted.
First-year defensive lineman Patrick
Wright caused many problems for the
Colonels’ offense, making three tackles.
Wright also had one of three sacks for
the Generals.

Centre quarterback Heath Haden
passed for 311 yards and rushed for 28,
scoring a touchdown in the air as well as
on the ground.

The Generals look to continue a two-
game winning streak as they compete at
Guilford College in a 7:00 p.m. game on
Sept. 29.

Snyder earns his 350th win

Volleyball takes two this weekend, improving to 11-4

By Shelby Flores
s TA F F w R lT E R

All players on the Washington & Lee
volleyball team contributed to the victo-
ries over Virginia Wesleyan College and
Mary Baldwin College last Saturday.

Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles and ‘

sophomore middle hitter Katie Toomb
led the Generals against Virginia Wes-
leyan in the second straight match W&L
hit over .324. Boles led the team with 14
kills and Toomb added 10 of her own.
With the victory over Virginia Wes-
leyan, head coach Bryan Snyder picked
up his 350th career win at W&L. Snyder
is in his 13th season at W&L and has a

.789 career winning percentage.

Snyder asserted that the wins are
not his, but for the entire program. He
praised all of the past and present teams
and assistant coaches who have helped
him reach this outstanding achievement.

“I feel very fortunate to be in the po-
sition I am as the head volleyball coach
at W&L,” Snyder said. ‘‘I look forward
to many more years of being a General.”

The Generals continued their winning
streak on Saturday afternoon against
Mary Baldwin.

First-year Mansie

outside hitter

Hough led the team with 12 kills and
eight digs. Both Hough’s kill and dig
statistics are career-highs. First-year
outside hitter Christina Kamis added a
career-high 10 kills. Sophomore middle
hitter Rachel Guarisco chipped in four
blocks in the Generals’ sweep of Mary
Baldwin.

The Generals will travel to Randolph-
Macon College on Wednesday, Sept. 26
to play against the defending Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference champions
at 7:00 p.m.

Generals lose a tight battle

FH falls to Randolph—Macon, 1-0

By Shelby Flores
s TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington & Lee ﬁeld hockey
team fell to Randolph—Macon College
1-0 in an away game last Friday.

With the loss, the Generals drop to a
2-5 overall record and a 0-1 conference
record.

Randolph-Macon junior defender Ol-
ivia Newman scored the only goal of the
contest in the ﬁrst half on a penalty cor-
ner. Newman was assisted by sophomore
defender Carrie Jacobs.

Randolph-Macon outshot W&L 25-6
and had 19 penalty corners compared to
only three for the Generals. Junior mid-

ﬁelder lziar Moure led the charge against
the Yellow Jackets with two shots on
goal.

First-year goalkeeper Megan Axelrod
played 55:50 and stopped 11 of 12 shots.
Senior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne played
the ﬁnal 14: 10 of the game, making four
saves. '

The Generals return to Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play on Sept.
25 at Roanoke College at 4:00 p.m. The
team will travel to Chambersburg, Pa. on
Saturday, Sept. 29 for a non-conference
game against Wilson College.

 

 

 

8 0 THVE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

S p0I't5

 

in the numbers
6

The total number of ﬁeld goals that Kansas City Chief Ryan
Succop kicked in his game versus the New Orleans Saints
on Sunday. One of them forced overtime, while another one
was the game winner. The Chiefs won 27-24 and are now

1-2 on the season while the Saints fall to 0-3.

86»

The total number of points scored in the Clemson-Florida
State game on Saturday. FSU scored 35 points in the sec-
ond half to put them on top 49-37. They went on a 35-3 run
in the second half to make a comback after being down in

the first half.

45

The number of years since someone has won the baseball
triple crown. Carl Yastrzemski did it for the Boston Red Sox
in 1967. Currently Miguel Cabrera of the Detroit Tigers is
leading the American League in all three categories: batting
average, home runs, and runs batted in. The Tigers have 11

games remaining in their schedule.

soapbox

"You cannot simply switch to a group of
cheaper ofﬁcials and fulfill your legal,
moral, and duty obligations to us and our
fans. You need to end the lookout and bring
back the ofﬁcials immediately.‘

-TheNFLPlqyersAseoclatlontiolheleeguewl<lngforthe
loel¢outofofllclalstoend.111eofllclalshavebeenIockad
outlrythe NFLslnceJune. Replacementoﬂlclalshavabeen
usedl’or1hellrstfawwael<softheseason.FromESPN.com

“Well, if! wanted to keep playing, yes. lt’s a
business. People forget that.”

-DerekJeterafl:erbelngasled,'PaytonMannIngchan¢ed
1namsal'liar1Aseasor:swluiorieteam.0ouldyousee
yourselfdolng1hat?'JehersaysthatltlslheobvlouschoIce,
allhoughhehassald manyﬂmesthathewanlstostaya
Yhnloeforhls entire career. From E3PN.com

Thomas leads the
Generals to 3rd place

W&L XC competes against fellow ODAC teams at the Doc Jopson Invite

By’Bai|ey Russell
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s cross country
team placed third out of four teams Friday night
in Penn Laird, Va. at the Doc Jopson lnvite. All
four teams were members of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

Prior to the race, head coach John Tucker
said, “The top teams in ODAC will be at the race
tonight. lt’s going to be tough to win, but the
guys are excited about running in the best race
of the season.”

Tucker says that this year the Generals have
“outstanding returning runners and outstanding

 

 

Courtesy of generalssports.com

 

Men’s xc before the W&L lnvittinal

new comers.” The team has been training for
5 weeks, and Tucker believes that the men are
faster and stronger than they were a month ago.
This was the ﬁrst time this season that the whole
team ran the same race.

Junior Kane Thomas led the Generals in the
6K race with a fourth-place ﬁnish. He crossed
the ﬁnish line in 20:04.80. Sophomore James
Busch was the next General to ﬁnish, taking 14th
in 21:15.00. Eight seconds behind Busch was
senior Tyler Gehrs in 21:23.00, taking 16th. In
20th with a time of2l:42.30 was ﬁrst-year Jake

Mack. Rounding out the score for the Generals
was sophomore Scott Sugden ﬁnishing 22nd in
21:43:00.

Dan Nafzinger of EMU ﬁnished with the
top time of 19:30.00. Lawrence Minor, senior at
Lynchburg, took second in 19:49.00, and Lynch-
burg sophomore Anthony McBride ﬁnished third
in 20:04.10.

The Generals will compete at the Don Cath-
cart Invitational in Salisbury, Md. next Saturday,
Sept. 29.

Inside W&L’s newest sport

Women is golf is brought to campus

By Pat McCarron
STA F F w R I T E R

Last Sunday, the Washington and Lee
women’s golf team ﬁnished third in the H01-
lins Invitational at Ashley Plantation. This
was the debut of Washington and Lee’s newest
varsity sport, the culmination of efforts by the
University and its Athletic Department.

In general, the installment of new varsity
sports to W&L’s athletic system follows a ten-
tative pattern: if an existing club sport shows
exceptional sustainability of dedication, the
Athletic Director is able to suggest its status
be raised to a varsity sport. This is precisely
what Jan Hathom, W&L’s AD, did two years

  ago after a perfect storm of events transformed

ondeck

 

Te n n is Women at ITA Champs

Tuesday Wednesday

the idea of a varsity women’s golf team into a
reality.

Within a six month period, two key events
occurred: President Ruscio authorized a com-
mittee for gender equality in W&L athletics,
an event that synergized with the establish-
ment of women’s club golf. Any worries of
the ﬁnancial burden a new varsity sport would
have on the school were put to ease when
W&L alumnus, Matt Goodwin, granted the
University a generous athletic donation. It
is this contribution that truly gave the W&L
women’s golf program the initial momentum
it needed.

The donation is set up in such a way that
gives more money initially before decreasing
in subsequent years. This initial capital al-
lowed W&L to hire coach Pete Gyscek, who
has taken over as head coach of both the men
and women’s golf teams since his arrival in
the summer of 2011. A developmental team
was soon assembled, comprised of enthusias-
tic members of the former club team.

The signs of the team’s recent recruit-
ment are evident: almost every member is a
ﬁrst-year. The exception is sophomore Elise
Petracca, the only remaining golfer from last
year’s developmental team.

For ﬁrst-year Nicole Kasica, it was the very
installment of the varsity women’s golf team
that solidiﬁed her decision to attend W&L.

“Even though the main reason that I chose
W&L was for academics and the culture on
campus, the golf team really provided me that
ﬁnal push that led me to choose W&L for my
college education,” explained Kasica.

While the establishment of W&L’s wom-
en’s golf team could not have happened
without Goodwin’s donation, it was the en-
thusiasm, dedication, and the love of golf of
everybody involved that made it truly pos-
sible.

Thursday

by means of dedication and donation

Since the ﬁrst day ofthe Hollins Invitation-A
al last week, a void has been ﬁlled in W&L
athletics. Women’s golf will be in action for
the second time in their short history on Sun-

Courtesy of generalssports.com

day when they travel to the Radford Highland-
er invitational.

Saturday

Men at ITA Champs Men at lTA Champ

M e n ‘ s G 0 If at William and Mary

at William and Mary

Field Hockey

at Roanoke 4 pm

at Wilson 2 pm

Women’s Soccer

vs Bridgewater 4 pm

Men’s Soccer‘

vs. Ferrum 4:30

vs Bridgewater
1:30 pm

Volleyball

at R-M 7 pm

Worthington Classic Worthington Classic

Football

vs Roanoke 4:30 pm

at Guilford 7 pm

 

.9

O‘

 

 

 

   V y i‘7,'ie:e’?”9PlNIONSi/ page 4

It's attgooal iwthe  !  
Props for getting involved, W&L Naborsp  
Service Day was a smashingsuccesslii  

A&L‘/ 

    WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

' THE RING—TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTSAND FOR THE.STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVILNUMBER4

Greek recruitment
feels the pressure

Competitiveness of rush is highlighted in various recruiting methods

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

W&L goes social

Organizations use social media for publicity,

By Hamlet Fort
STA F F w R IT E R
Social media are changing our lives.

With Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus,
Pinterest, Tumblr. and lnstagram, the
list of social media websites seems end-
less. These sites are bringing the world
together, enriching connectivity and al-
lowing people to access people, places
and memories that they thought were
lost. The influence of social media in to-
day’s society is undeniable, and there are
two choices moving forward: reject it, or
accept and embrace it. Washington and
Lee is choosing the latter.

New this school year is a task force
of students with the job of integrating
social media into the W&L experience.
The social media team, #wluSocial, is
a group of eight students committed to
coaxing W&L into the social media era.
According to Bridget Rooney, a member
of#wluSocial and the coordinator ofstu-
dent organizations‘ efforts at marketing
through social. media, most of W&L‘s
previous endeavors with social media
involve alumni. #wluSocial wants to
change that.

“Given the undeniable importance of
social media in the daily lives ofour cur-
rent students, we wanted to expand out

such as sports, performances and ex-
tracurricular life. @wlulex is intended
for current W&L students, so the team
tweets relevant information about what
is happening in and around Lexington
that includes a wide array of different
interests and initiatives.

#wluSocial is working with student
organizations to help get the word out
about their groups and what their mis-
sions involve. Rooney believes social
media are the perfect tool for organiza-
tions to evolve.

The Interfraternity Council (IFC) has
created a Twitter handle this year, @
wluifc, and is hoping to use #wluSocial
to expand their mission through social
media.

Danny Murray ’l3, the President of
the IFC, sees promise in the idea. “Ide-
ally we want to use it (social media) to
get the word out about all the events that
we have,” he said. “For example, we’re
hosting a tennis tournament this week-
end, and Twitter can help us get that in-
formation out there.”

Rooney said she knows that involv-
ing all student organizations will be a
process. “Eventually, we hope that all

“Eventually, we hope that all student organizations

at W&L will use social media to inform, organize

and act. 

BRIDGET ROONEY, memberof #wluSocial

reach to the W&L community living in
Lexington,” Rooney said. “What does a
W&L student want to know each day?
How does he or she go about ﬁnding that
important information? In answering
these questions, we decided to skip the
guessing games and reach out to students
directly--and #wluSocial was boml.”

#wluSocial’s Twitter handle, @wlu-
lex, is “the team’s ﬁrst effort to consoli-
date and communicate the information
relevant to W&L students via social me-
dia,” according to Rooney.

The team tweets University updates,
pictures and links to important events,

student organizations at W&L will use
social media to inform, organize and
act,” she said.” #wluSocial is a promis-
ing start to the University’s goal of in-
corporating social media.

“Our goals for @wlulex and #wIuSo-
cial are to create and nurture a living and
breathing social idea of what it means
to be a student at W&L,” said Rooney.
“What do you want to know? What do
you want to see and improve? #wluSo-
cial is creating a platform for both of
those questions and more. Follow us -
it’s going to be a busy year.”

Follow #wluSocial at @wlulex.

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR _

With the start of informal recruitment
of Washington and Lee University’s
Greek system, fraternities and sororities
are beginning to feel the pressure of en-
suring new membership.

For sororities, potential new mem-
bers (PNMs) are informally recruited
from Sept. 15 to Dec. 7. For fratemities,
PNMs are informally recruited during
the entire fall term.

Alexandra Frazier ’l3, President of
the Panhellenic Council, said that in-
formal recruitment is a time of acquain-
tance between ﬁrst-year women and
upperclasswomen. “During informal
recruitment,” she said, “PNMs have the
opportunity to meet upperclasswomen
sorority members, go on ‘rush dates,’
and attend Panhellenic-sponsored ‘Meet
the Greeks‘ events.”

Fraternity recruitment, on the other
hand, is less structured.

Many fraternities, like Kappa Alpha,
do not recruit in a systematic manner.
“Sophomores generally have the best re-
lationship with ﬁrst-years in class and in
clubs,” said Lawson Neal "13, fraternity
President. “We have ﬁrst-years "over
who we like for dinner, or skeet shoot-
ing, or parties and stuff like that.”

“Frankly, there’s really not all that
much to [recruitment],” said John Paul
Beall ’l4, Kappa Sigma fraternity Presi-
dent. “Rush is really groups of people
socializing and getting to know each
other.”

Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. re-
frains from recruiting entirely. Instead,
it offers information sessions during the
fall and winter terms. Matthew Locke
’ 12, fraternity President on Campus,
said that limited recruiting makes PNMs
inform themselves about the fraternity.
As a result, new members are sure of
their decision tojoin.

Although fraternities recruit differ-

ently than sororities, they both feel pres-
sured to break the rules of recruitment.

Kaelin Fraley “I3, Recruitment Chair
ofthe Panhellenic Council, said, ‘‘In any
sorority recruitment process at a variety
of schools that have a prevalent Greek
system, rush violations can and usually
occur.”

falls under the category of ‘dirty rush.’”

Clay Coleman, Director of Greek and
Residential Life, also said that recruiting
through this program is not a rush viola-
tion.

Greek organizations can also recruit
PNMS by following them on Twitter or
befriending them on Facebook.

“I don ’t know if it [the University Big/Little Pro-

gram] falls under the category of ‘dirty rush.

)1}

LAWSON NEAL ‘13, President of Kappa Alpha Fraternity

Neal said, “It’s hard out there, be-
cause you know you’re competing with
other fraternities.”

Many students on campus have been
made aware of this pressure recently via
a leaked email, in which a member of a
Greek organization encouraged fellow
members to recruit PNMs through the
Big/Little program and through Face-
book.

Regarding this issue, Danny Mur-
ray ’l3, President of the lnterfratemity
Council (IFC), said, “Ideally, with all
sorts of violations, respective chapters
will use an internal judicial process.”

' Despite the heavy greek inﬂuence
on campus, the First-Year Orientation
Committee does not encourage Greek
organizations to recruit PNMs through
its University Big Brother/Big Sister
program.

David Thomas ’l5, FYOC Big/Little
Co-Chair, said that University Bigs are
chosen for their personalities and home-
towns, not for their Greek afﬁliation.
“The goal of the program,” Thomas said,
“is to provide ﬁrst-years with the perfect
transition from summer to school.”

On recruitment through the Big/Little
program, Neal said, ‘‘I don’t know if it

However, Brendan McGoldrick ’l4,
Sigma Chi Rush Chairman, said: “I’ve
never heard of stalking kids and ﬁnding
out what they like. l’ve never heard of
somebody going online on Facebook
and seeing what pages [a PNM] likes.
I’ve never seen’ or experienced it. If
that’s a fratemity’s rush plan, then that’s
its rush plan.”

Opinions differ on the deﬁnition and
extent of recruitment violations.

“I don’t think dirty rushing is preva-
lent,” Frazier said. “W&L’s honor code
extends to all aspects of Greek Life, and
I generally feel like upperclasswomen
respect the recruitment rules that Pan-
hellenic has put in place.”

When Greek organizations incur po-
tential recruitment violations, they pun-
ish themselves. “I feel like it is the cul-
ture of fratemities to handle those sorts
of problems amongst themselves,” Mur-
ray said.

Self-govemance is key. “Fratemities
need to look at creating their own inter-
nal judicial board if they don’t have one
already,” according to the minutes from
the IFC’s Sept. 24 meeting.

Voter registration drive reaches ten percent of W&L

College Republicans ran a voter registration drive in the Commons, encouraging students to vote in Virginia

By Randy Karlson
STAFF warren

The College Republicans are promoting their cause in the upcoming election with their “Done in One”

shirts in the hope that Obama’s presidency will end after one term.

COY FERRELL/ staff photographer

One of the biggest goals of the Col-
lege Republicans this upcoming year
was to get as many students registered
to vote in Virginia as possible. This was
addressed quickly with a voter registra-
tion drive on campus this past week. The
group set up a table inside the John W.
Elrod Commons for most of the week,

including the numbers from the Activi-
ties Fair.

When asked about the week-long
drive, Luther had commented on the
massive number of voters registered,
“We exceeded our goals, but if you look
even closer at the numbers, we reached
more than ten percent of students on

“We exceeded our goals, but if you look even closer

at the numbers, we reached more than ten percent

of students on campus. That is an impact on such a

small campus, if it could be replicated across the

state it would be a huge impact. ”
LEX LUTHER, President of College Republicans

and had a tent and table outside on Tues-
day all day.

The President of the group, Lex Lu-
ther, had set a goal of I00 voter regis-
trations for the week, and said he was
pleasantly surprised when he looked at
the ﬁnal numbers for the drive. By the
end of the week, the drive had generated
160 registered voters in Virginia; includ-
ed in that number are 25 Virginia absen-
tee ballots, as well as over 36 swing state
registrations.

The drive had also included the sale
of more than 40 of the group’s “Done In
One” t-shirts, bringing the total number
of t-shirts sold on the year to over 180,

campus. That’s an impact on such a
small campus, if it could be replicated
across the state it would be a huge im-
pact.”

Because of this sort of turn out in
such a small school in an important
swing state, Luther said, “Needless to
say we are really excited for the upcom-
ing election.”

 

 

    

‘:3 

 

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

 

Statuses, tweets & j-interns

Social media is now playing a major role in the work of journalism interns

By Krysta Huber
s TA F F w R IT E R

Social media is beginning to play a ma-
jor role in journalism education at W&L
outside the classroom.

Every summer, W&L journalism stu-
dents complete internships in radio, televi-
sion and print positions at media organiza-
tions across the country. These internships
are a requirement for W&L students major-
ing in journalism and business journalism
and also include a presentation in the fall
term following the internship, according to
wlu.edu. On Sept. 24-26 and Oct. 1 and 2,
journalism majors highlighted their intern-
ship experiences to peers and professors.

Throughout the presentations, a com-
mon theme emerged — social media is
progressively playing a
larger role

in the

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

news industry. A majority of interns report-
ed daily interaction with social media sites
like Twitter and Facebook, as a means of
ﬁnding story ideas, promoting articles and
keeping developing stories up to date.
Senior Alex Maragos had two intem-
ships this summer: one with the television

 

station Comcast SportsNet Chicago and the
second with the radio station 89 WLS, for
the Roe & Roeper Show. Maragos said that
Twitter was vitalfor the radio show.
“Going live for four hours over the air
means you need to adjust to slight changes
in news or new angles that are presented,”
Maragos said. “I was on Twitter daily at the
radio station and I had to be as up to date
as possible to make sure the station didn’t
miss any breaking news that would be per-
tinent to the day’s rundown.” '
Senior Caitlin Doermer, who worked
for the investigative unit of NBC 5 Chi-
cago, typically used Facebook and
Twitter as a research tool.
For one story in particu-
lar, Doermer had to in-
vestigate the safety of
babysitting websites,
in which Facebook
played a signiﬁcant role.
“I would use potential bab-
ysitters’ Facebook

pages to get their birth date to run their in-
formation in the Cook County record sys-
tem,” Doermer said.

According to Doermer, NBC 5 Chicago
also relied on other, lesser-known media
sites such as EveryBlock. This site was
helpful for the nature of Doermer’s work

because it tracks neighborhood news, down
to the speciﬁcs of a single city block, ac-
cording to everyblock.com. EveryBlock
made it easier for Doermer and her cowork-
ers to narrow in on the pertinent issues of
different areas of Chicago. “Chicago is so

big that looking at issues covered in City

Hall are of almost zero help,” she said.

Junior Laura Beth Ellis, who interned
with Rialto Theatre in Atlanta, Ga., also
used Facebook as a research device. Un-
like Doermer, Ellis researched information
about Rialto Theatre’s competitors.

Ellis said: “I used social media to make
the Rialto Theatre’s own social media
stronger. I looked at all of the social media
for Rialto Theatre’s competition in Atlanta
and compared what they did to what we did.
By gathering this information, the Rialto
Theatre could see what worked and didn’t
work for competitors.”

Junior Logan Nardo worked for K95,
96.5, Hot 100.9 and 103.7, which are all ra-
dio stations owned by Cox Media Group, a
company based in Richmond, Va.

Nardo used Facebook for promotional
purposes, such as informing listeners about
different contests and prizes that the radio
stations were running or giving away. Nar-
do worked at concert venues where he had
to take pictures of the radio station’s booth
and then post them on the station’s

Facebook page. That way, listeners
could log on to Facebook to ﬁnd out
where to win prizes.
Many of the journalism students
who interned this summer believe
that this is only the beginning for
social media’s involvement in
the news industry and it will
continue to grow for a num-
ber of reasons.

Doermer said she sees a
future for social media be-
cause of its simplicity. “So-
cial media is not very time

consuming. It’s quick and
easy and it’s pretty much a one-
person job,” she said.

Ellis said that social media effective-
ly reaches younger audiences, which is cru-
cial for a company like the Rialto Theatre
because it doesn’t always attract teenagers
and young adults.

“In the research that I conducted, the
number of Facebook check-ins, likes on the
Rialto page and followers and re-tweets on
Twitter continues to grow immensely year
after year,” Ellis said. “I can only see posi-
tives for the Rialto Theatre where social
media is concerned.”

ComfortCare comes to Lex

ComfortCare oﬂers services for women and hopes to work with W&L

By Yejean Kim
s TA F F w R I T E R

ComfortCare Women’s Health, a clin-
ic specializing in unplanned pregnancy,
opened its Lexington branch on 631 Wad-
dell Street on Sept. 24. '

ComfortCare ﬁrst opened in Staunton in
1983 and expanded to a second location in
Waynesboro in 1996. The Lexington office
is its third location.

According to Sommer Hansen, President
and CEO of ComfortCare Women’s Health,
the clinic specializes in pregnancy conﬁr-

I mation, nurse’s consultation, peer counsel-

ing on pregnancy options and STI testing,
and aims to provide “medical services, edu-
cation, and compassion” to women who are
facing “the complex physical, emotional,
and spiritual aspects” of unplanned preg-
nancy. *

As a non-proﬁt medical clinic, all ser-
vices provided by ComfortCare are compli-
mentary.

Research into a possible Lexington
branch began in 2007. After recruiting a
local advisory team, ComfortCare and its
Board of Directors and staff studied com-
munity statistics, had discussions with 10-
cal healthcare providers and consulted with
other Virginia professionals, concluding
that such a center would be beneﬁcial to
Lexington women.

The various funds needed to establish
the clinic took several years to procure and
allocate: “The community has been over-
whelmingly supportive,” stated Hansen,
and to date, over $125,000 has been raised
in support of the clinic by hundreds of indi-
viduals from the Lexington community.

Although founded on a Judeo-Christian
framework, ComfortCare strives to serve
all women regardless of any income level,
race, or religion.

However, the clinic does not provide any
abortion services, nor does it provide any
referrals to clinics that do. “We believe edu-
cation for women in unplanned pregnancy
should be free of these ties,” stated Hansen.

While the clinic does not have a direct

‘ She went on to say that the clinic wanted
students to be “supported and equipped to
make a pregnancy decision out of education
and power, not questions and fear,” and that
ComfortCare found it “disturbing that no
organization existed in Lexington to sup-
port W&L students.”

Hansen also expressed the desire to have
ComfortCare work with various campus
groups, but details have yet to be ﬁnalized.

“A woman in college faces certain unique pressures

when faced with unplanned pregnancy. This woman,

in particular, deserves access to convenient, affordable

pregnancy conﬁrmation. She deserves information and

J

compassion. ’

Sommer Hansen, President and CEO of Comfortcare Women’s Health

relationship with Carillion Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital, there is a referral relationship
as well as other professional relationships
with local doctors and the health depart-
ment.

When asked if W&L’s proximity was a
factor in the clinic’s opening, Hansen said:
“A woman in college faces certain unique
pressures when faced with unplanned preg-
nancy. This woman, in particular, deserves
access to convenient, affordable pregnancy
conﬁrmation. She deserves information and
compassion.”

The clinic has also developed workshops
to beneﬁt campus groups, sororities, and
fraternities by providing pertinent infor-
mation about topics relating to unplanned
pregnancy such as hooking up, the mom-
ing after pill, real life stories of unplanned
pregnancies, and continuing education after
unplanned pregnancy.

“We’re privileged to serve W&L wom-
en,” Hansen stated.

Students can make an appointment with
ComfortCare by calling 540-448-0148 or
going to iﬁtspositive.com.

   

r. 

rv‘ g

—I ‘g.

E S
- \4
#-

\

    49‘
- 51:|o'\‘~‘ 3
Water shortages at

'6'};-

devastating levels

UN and non-proﬁts try to deal with an

issue unknown to many college students

By Hannah Howard ..
s TA F F w R I T E R

People cry out for water in the streets of Liberia. Citizens lament the
lack of water in cities in Nigeria. Children in refugee camps in Sudan are
unable to ﬁnd drinking sources. Despite continued efforts by the United
Nations (UN) and many non-proﬁt organizations to solve the problem, wa-
ter shortages in Africa are at devastating levels.

The World Health Organization reported that worldwide, nearly a bil-
lion people lack access to clean drinking water — that’s one out of every
eight people. This has led to 3.4 million deaths each year. In sub-Saharan
Africa, where the effects of water shortages are felt the most, one out of
every nine children dies before reaching the age of ﬁve. This is in large part
due to malnutrition and poor water sources, according to UNICEF.

According to the Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting, the problem is
only growing more severe. Population is expanding, urbanization is oc-
curring and city planning simply can’t keep up. Thus cities in third world
countries aren’t having water needs met. It’s even harder for people to get
water to rural places in these areas. V '

In Liberia, water can cost more than 35 dollars for a gallon. It’s a hard
commodity to come by, especially during seasons of drought. The Pulitzer
Center reported that people struggle to ﬁnd drinking sources everyday and
in some places may spend up to half of their income on water. People often
can’t even guarantee if this purchased water will be clean. Sanitation pro-
cesses in Africa are sub-par at best and nonexistent at worst.

For many people in countries such as Nigeria, their only access to water
is a pump shared by a whole community, according to the Pulitzer Center.
When these pumps break, families are left without any way to get water.
Water rations also make it hard to maintain continual access. These rations
are put out disproportionately to poorer areas of cities. Poor planning by
city ofﬁcials has also resulted in many areas lacking pumps and water lines.

Many people trying to help within their own nations simply don’t have
the resources available to take care of everyone. Refugee camps in Su-
dan are currently ﬁghting against water shortages, according to the African
Press Organization. People housed at the camps are drinking contaminated
run off water.

College age students caught up in the chaos of campus life around them
seem to be unaware of the crisis.

When asked to estimate the amount of people living without access to
clean drinking water, most responded by throwing out random numbers and
said they had no idea.

The majority of students overshot the actual statistic. One said, “I ﬁg-
ured it would be better to end up assuming the problem was worse than it
really is rather than assuming it was better.”

Only 2 of the 20 W&L students surveyed came close to the actual ﬁg-
ures. All students interviewed said they were aware that water shortages
were a global problem but didn’t know any speciﬁcs regarding the problem.

Organizations such as People Water, Global Water and Water Missions
International have recognized the need to educate students on college cam-
puses about global water issues. All three of these organizations offer cam-
pus initiatives and positions for student ambassadors.

 

geaéo 2 ea‘  

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday — Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am — 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu online

S3 Find us on Face book

1 Twitter @berkysfood

 

MONDAY,

OCTOBER 1, 2012

How do I put this gently? Jeb Bush is not run-
ning for president.

Do you know who is running for President? Mitt
Romney. Governor Romney, while he may have
started off as a moderate, is no longer a center-
of-the-road candidate. An evolving party, a tough
primary, and signiﬁcant amounts of money from
the far right have pushed Romney down a radical
path. He can’t keep his base without extreme po-
sitions. and those positions seriously hurt the I 1.5
million illegal immigrants in this country without
any real gains. Romney is not a moderate.

Romney is ‘against-amnesty; which leaves im-
migrants already in the country in a very sticky
situation. This past December, the former gover-
nor stated that these immigrants would need to
leave the country and reapply for green cards.
Illegal immigrants make up 3.5% of our popula-
tion. That’s equivalent to the population of Ohio.

Now, though I can see why Romney would wish
to get rid ofa state where he is currently polling 5
points behind his opponent, it’s hardly feasible to
just send that many people “back home.”

In fact, for many ofthem, this country is home.
The DREAM Act would provide young adults
who came to this country illegally as children with
a path to residency and citizenship. Jeb Bush ae-
knowledges the beneﬁts ofthis bill. but Romney
has said that he would veto it. This is exactly the
kind of behavior that has stalled this legislation,
which was at one point bipartisan, in the House.

.This is the kind of behavior thatled President

Obama to issue an executive order that would
reprioritize deportations, effectively halting the
persecution on these students that Congress will
not protect. The actions ofthese congressmen and
-women, and Mitt Romney’s promise to rescind
the executive order, are not moderate positions to

have.

Mitt Romney supports building “a high-tech
fence" on the border between the United States
and Mexico. Herman Cain, Romney's former op-
ponent, was ridiculed when he suggested a simi-
lar idea during the primaries. This is not a moder-
ate position.

Jeb Bush is not running for President. Mitt
Romney is. And do you know who else is‘? Bar-
rack Obama.

Obama has focused immigration enforcement
on the people who should not be in our country~——
criminals and terrorists. not students and seniors.
He has repeatedly supported the DREAM Act,
and proposals in the Senate that would provide
amnesty to those who would pay ﬁnes and back
taxes. Obama is the moderate here, while Rom-
ney is chasing the xenophobic policies of the far

I right.

° THE RING-TUM PHI '

Dems

By Maureen Nalepa
GUEST WRITER

Immigrants own businesses. Illegal immigrants
pay at least SI I billion in income taxes. They are
not receiving cash handouts from the govern-
ment. and. in many cases, they are legally barred
from receiving welfare of any sort. The I million
people per year who immigrate legally do not de-
serve to live in fear ofraeial proﬁling because it
"might" be illegal. Such policies are ﬁguratively
and literally attacking the surface of immigration
reform. Romney would be forced by his base to
agree with these extreme policies. He simply isn‘t
allowed to be a moderate.

Jeb Bush is sensible. For ob\ ious reasons. I
don‘t agree with him on many issues. and immi-
gration is one ofthem. I can, however. respect his
position because it is at least relatable. But Jeb
Bush isn‘t running. Mitt Romney is. And, thank-
fully, so is Barack Obama.

Congratulations to
Robert S. Thompson '89
on his nomination for
membership in the
Gridiron Secret Society

++ SicVos Non Vobis ++

» Best of luck from those who
have been watching from afar at the

Thomas Jefferson Chapter, the Patrick
Henry Chapter and the
Tidewater Chapter.

Gridiron Secret Society,
University of Georgia Mother
Chapter (est. 1908).

The Greatest Organization on

.

 

 

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI °

opinions

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

To B a kid

New York is ﬂight to “Plan B ”

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR
There are many rites of passage in a
young teenage girl’s life. The ﬁrst day of
high school. The ﬁrst time she gets be-
hind the wheel of a car. Her ﬁrst date.

The ﬁrst time the school nurse offers her .

birth control...

That is, so long as she lives in New
York City. Students in over 50 public
NYC high schools now have access to
birth control as a result of an initiative
to put an end to the teenage pregnancy
epidemic. The New York Post reports
that 28% of students beginning high
school in NYC have had sex. 7,000 girls
younger than I7 were pregnant last year,
64% of whom aborted their pregnancies.

 

That means that 2,200 girls not yet old
enough to vote suddenly had someone
calling them “mommy.” 70% of these
girls stopped showing up to classes.

Perhaps it was this startling real-
ization which had Board of Education
members clamoring for a more effective
solution than the condoms which schools
already dole out in oversized ﬁshbowls.
Obviously, the old plan wasn’t working.

And so they went to Plan B.

Plan B emergency contraception is
a form of birth control that women can
take after having sex. When used with-
in 72 hours of intercourse, the pill is
90% effective at preventing pregnancy.
Sometimes called

  
  
  

 

R‘ °"IY W woinen  .
younger than age '17 ’ f

 One Tablet‘
~. I One Dose .~
within 72 hqu,:?;5:ial;s,
3"" Unprotected sex; ’

e 5°°"9I You take ‘I
bate I . lI'l(‘
will view" all °"°‘5“‘P

1 Trilljlet
L?‘V0".maesIrel 1,43,-r. .

.___

 

again...

the “morning-after pill,” Plan B works
thanks to the use of a hormone called
levonorgestrel, which has now circulat-
ed through the bloodstreams of at least
576 girls as young as 14 in NYC high
schools.

While pills can cost between $10 and
$70 at a clinic, there is no charge if a
student gets them from the school nurse.
Furthermore, this isn’t your over-the-
counter kind of drug. Teenagers under
17 years old need a prescription from
their pediatrician to have access to Plan
B. But high schools don’t bother with
such things—in fact, the students’ par-
ents don’t even have to know.

The idea is that parents can sign an
“opt-out” form, which means that, if
their daughter happens to be sexu-
ally active and possibly pregnant,
they’ll at least get a phone call. But
without that piece of paper, schools
now have free reign to pass out pills
to whomever they like. According
to the NYC Health Department,
only 2% of parents have signed this
form.

Now, some people may say that
such a program only encourages
teenagers to have sex. Some may
say that this kind of under-the-
table drug dealing fosters commu-
nication problems between parents
and their teenagers where sex is
concerned. Some may even say
that this new initiative provides a
false safety-net for teenagers who

no longer believe that unprotected sex is
a big deal, since they are just one visit
to the nurse’s office away from being in
the clear.

However, there is another school of
thought which takes into account that in
2010, teen pregnancy reached its lowest

dents may. overlook the fact that Plan B
does not protect against sexually trans-
mitted infections and that schools may
only be using this program as a tem-
porary Band-Aid while forgoing much
more important programs like sexual
education.

The idea is that parents can sign an “opt—out” form,

which means that, if their daughter happens to be

sexually active and possibly pregnant, they ’ll at

least get a phone call.

 

rate since 1946 (according to the Center
for Disease Control). Since making con-
doms available to ‘students seems to be
working, why not offer another form of
birth control‘?

Of students polled at W&L, the ma-
jority found the program to be a non-is-
sue. Considering the fact that pregnancy
can be a far worse fate to a young girl
than the risks associated with Plan B—
namely, nausea, abdominal pain, dizzi-
ness, and a whole host of other ﬂu—like
symptoms~most students found that
this was a warranted preventative mea-
sure in a city where teenage pregnancy is
so common. There were fewer students
who found that the potential for harm
outweighed the beneﬁts, given that stu-

Maybe there’s a middle ground here.
Perhaps this new program is on the right
track. After all, teenage pregnancy is a
reality. Someone had to confront it soon-
er or later. The real problem with this is-
sue is that the program seems to operate
the way pot deals do—under a fog of se-
crecy and risk. Maybe there should be an
“opt—in” form, so that parents are kept in
the loop. Maybe one of the stipulations
in getting Plan B should be attendance in
a sexual education class, rather than just
“ﬁxing” the problem by freely handing
out the pill, thereby cutting students off
from the need to become educated about
their own sexuality. If birth control is
a necessity in today’s world, at least it
doesn’t have to be a barrier.

“Aporkalypsez” Save your bacon

A grand review of the country with 40 days left before the election

By Victoria Bell
STA F F w R IT E R
Facts are stubborn little things. Some
quick poll numbers: 53% favor the re-
peal of the health care law, 35% say

the most important issue to Americans
with healthcare, government ethics and
corruption, taxes, and education fol-

However we have a sitting president who has yet

to resemble a "commander in chief ” We have a

“campaigner in chief

U.S. is heading in the right direction,

and 64% think too many Americans are

dependent on government ﬁnancial aid.
The economy continues to rank as

lowing closely behind. On the economy
50% trust Romney, 43% trust Obama.
So in this election, we are looking at the
remaining 7% who have not yet made

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM
PAT MCOARRON
LISA STOISER

SARAH WARD
DESIGN EDITORS JULIA LANG
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER AL-LIE WEISS

COY FERRELL
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS
DON DONNELLAN

MISSION STATEMENT: It Is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty.
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

up their
minds, or
4-4 WPSI-l1NGDONANDI.EEUNIVERSITY ———————j— trust mi-
ther.
HE ING-TUM HI. Note-I
worthy: In
MANAGING EDITOR IULIANNA SATTERLY Wiscon-
NEws EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY sin, mili-
OPINIONS EDITOR JP BEALL tary vot-
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR CYNTHIA LAM erg were
sronrs EDITOR LEIGH DANNHAUSER provided
HEAD corv EDITOR GRAHAM COLTON the mew
GUEST wItIrEIIs MAUREEN NALEPA ;:,°tw:iaCt,f
DAVID THOMAS their ba]_
STAFF WRITERS VICTORIA BELL 1 h d
HAMLET roar ' “S a
SHELBY I=LoR"Es ‘°_ be re‘
CAROLINE HAMP C81-Val
IIAILEY HARTLEY The Fed-
HANNAH HOWARD eral Vot-

ing Assistance Program said ballots had
to be returned by November I6 when
the deadline is actually at 4pm on No-
vember 9. So, any ballots received in the
time between November 9 and 16 would
not be counted, possibly creating a large
number of disenfranchised voters.

In other news, Obama has Inade ap-
pearances on David Letterman and The
View, yet he is declining meetings with
foreign leaders like Israeli Prime Min-

ister Benjamin Netanyahu. How many .

times has Obama been on The View?
How often has Obama attended his daily
brieﬁngs? How many games of golf has
the President played since being in of-
ﬁce?

Don’t get me wrong - I think you
need to work hard and play hard, too.
Yet, when you have four years as the
POTUS, your life is a bit of an excep-
tion for those four years (i.e. it’s not all
fun and games). Personally, I’m tired of
watching the President on The View talk
about himself as “eye candy”, and then
when I hear a 30 second news blurb of
Obama declining meetings with foreign
leaders and then a 15 minute segment
beating the dead horse of Romney’s
tax returns, my nerves are vexed. As
POTUS, this is not acceptable. There is
little to zero accountability. If he was ac-
cepting the meetings in addition to going
on The View, that’s different. However,
we have a sitting president who has yet

 Joy Behar 5
1 J

. ,._ ,_.

.. =_._"_',,_.,
f:IlI.»-’ .-
..- 1

3' Follow

C'lZIE1ITIEl is beirig bashed for doirlg the it-‘is.-.w in.-3tean:l of
1'rIeetir1g wcrrld leaders. I-rlajirbe he-.'d rather talk to rue
than I\letan§,ral1u. Ever thinlz. of that?‘

‘¢"‘ ‘r;‘}ll",'  ?v";‘::1~." U’.

to resemble a “commander in chief.” We
have a “campaigner in chief.”

According to the Hulﬁngton Post
and the White House, Obama has not
met with the jobs council in six months
because he’s had too much on his plate.
Let’s talk common sense for one second,
folks. The POTUS is declining meetings
with foreign leaders in a time of inter-
national turmoil and reportedly has “too
much on his plate” to meet with thejobs
council for six months, yet the POTUS
has made regular appearances on The
View as recent as this week? I don’t care
what ideology you believe or who you
support, this doesn’t add up. Unless you,
like Behar, ﬁnd The View of greater im-
portance than meeting with foreign lead-
ers in a time of international turmoil.

Maybe Obama thinks the Middle
East turmoil is just another “bump in the
road.”

In other news, save your bacon,
people. A worldwide pork shortage is

expected in the coming year. Twitter fa-
natics are calling it the “aporkaIypse."
This shortage is expected as a result of
the recent severe drought conditions that
negatively affected this year’s corn and
soybean crop. My prediction? Expect
your gas prices and overall grocery bill
to sky rocket, too.

>

 

Attention‘ Seniors and Young Alumni!

Join us at the Wine Tasting & BBQ on Cannan Green this
Saturday from 6:30pm — 9pm, as we welcome back our
Young Alumni for Young Alumni Weekend 2012.

It will be a great time to reconnect with old friends and
the W&L family, eat great BBQ, taste local wines & beers
and listen to a great band.

Be sure to pre—register on Wednesday or Thursday in
the Elrod Living Room, 9:00am - 3:30pm. Doing this will let 
you enter the event faster! 

Thank you for making this weekend a success, and _for*_

your contributions to W&L.

Alumni Affairs and University Development.

Ci

.9

 

  

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

5 " THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&|if

 

Where the wild things are...

Lisa Stoiser ﬁnds herself face-to-face with the wild side during a spontaneous day trip to the Virginia Safari Park

By Lisa Stoiser
STAFF WRITER

We’ve stopped the car and left it to
idle, somewhere in the third and last mile
of a gravel road that winds through 180
acres of the beautiful green, blue, and
gray layers of the Shenandoah Valley. A
balmy breeze blows over the scene and
plays with the little tuﬁs of grass that
haven’t yet been mowed over by the qui-
etly grazing herd of Watusi cattle. It’s a
wonder that the occasional cow head is
able to rise from the ground to chew... it
seems like the two enormous horns that
grace the Watusis’ heads would be heavy
enough to make even these large animals
living plows. The little I4-page “safari
giide” we’re given says the horns can
span up to eight feet and weigh up to 100
pounds - each.

Suddenly, the breeze picks up, and the
clouds that had made such a pleasant
backdrop for the scene turn the kind of
gray I remember from cleaning too many
colors off my paint brushes in a glass of
water. Thunder starts to roll from some-
where near, and all of the Watusi cattle
stop their grazing to give us an accu-
satory look. One guy, a big, muscular
dude decorated in red and white patches
with horns thicker than my thighs, starts
to make a run straight towards us. The
other dozen or so cattle follow behind,
and for a moment I know exactly what

‘Simba felt when the wildebeests came

running.
Fortunately, Virginia Safari Park is an
attraction to be experienced from the

safety of a car. We just put the car back

_ into gear and continued down the gravel

road to enjoy the rest of the park, as the
cattle raced to their shelter somewhere
behind us. It had been an adventurous
day trip... within a few hours we had
nearly been trampled by traditionally Af-
rican cattle, slobbered on by zebras, and
spit on by emus. After concluding our
drive, we got out of the car and checked
out the Safari Village, where we got to
pet kangaroos, chase peacocks, and roar
with tigers.

If you can stomach the sadness of a
zoo, where animals live at the mercy of
their keepers and their rather unusual
cage mates in wildly foreign environ-
ments, then Virginia Safari Park is not

such a terrible place to spend a Saturday
afternoon. The animals all seem healthy

and happy to put on a show for visitors,‘

and 30 minutes in front of a cage of bril-
liant primates can provide years of phi-
losophizing material for kids and adults
alike.

Need a philanthropic incentive? The
park will open its gates and donate their
entire day’s proceeds to purchase new
winter coats for children in need in the
Rockbridge County area on November
23.

Virginia Safari
Park Additional

Information:
Rates.‘ $15.00 per adult
Hours.‘ Open 9 am-5:30 pm.
Gates to safari area close at
4pm.

Directions: Take I-81 S. After
7. 7 miles, take exit 1 808 for
US-1 I N. Continue on Oak
Bank Drive until turning right
onto Killdeer Lane. C heck
outvirginiasafaripark.com for
more info.

Hey there, “Will you be my Nabor?”

Students from W&L and VMI came together on Nabors Service Day for an afternoon of “naborly ” volunteer work

By Caroline Hamp
STAF F WRITER

On Saturday afternoon, Washington
and Lee and Virginia Military Institute
students joined forces in volunteer ef-
forts all over Rockbridge County for this
year’s annual Fall Nabors Service Day.

Nabors Service League (NSL) origi-
nated thirteen years ago in honor of
Jonathan Nabors. During his ﬁrst year
at W&L, he passed away in a tragic car
accident. A highly-involved, dedicated
student, he was well known for his
good intentions and is now remembered
through the spirit of service. The goal of
NSL, which was established by his fami-
Iy in his memory, is to continue to spread
his generous and happy nature through
various projects and events. NSL strives
to connect W&L students with the great-
er volunteer and non-profit community
of Rockbridge County.

Mr. Eddie and Doris Nabors, Jona-
than’s parents, attend the Nabors Service
Days each year, and this time was no dif-
ferent. Throughout the afternoon, they
stopped by the various volunteer sites
and got to know the people in the com-
munity. Each site was full of joy and
generosity (Mr. Nabors’ favorite site is
Boxerwood Gardens), but there was also
an attitude of solemnity. In remember-
ing their son, the community both hon-

ors and mourns the loss of a loved in-
dividual.

“Jonathan loved this place,” said Mr.
Nabors, referring not only to W&L, but
to the area as a whole.

This year, NSL teamed up with VMI
for the first time, and the outcome was
overwhelmingly positive. The NSL
Special Events Staff included Kathryn
Marsh-Soloway ‘I3 and Natsumi Alva-
rez ‘I5 from W&L and Hunter Harvey
‘ 14 from VMI. Only with their coopera-
tion was Saturday’s event possible.

“I think that having service as the
common goal created a fantastic atmo-
sphere,” said NSL General Co-Chair
Kendre Barnes ‘13. “The differences
that we all seem to notice faded as we
worked together, and we took the time to
get to know one another.”

Combining W&L and VMI led to an
incredible amount of student involve-
ment, with over I30 students partici-
pating on Saturday. The unexpectedly
large turnout resulted in even more stu-
dents than t-shirts! (Speaking of t-shirts,
NSL got punny this year: under a head-
shot of Mr. Rogers, the t-shirt read, “Will
you be my Nabor?”).

With incredible strength in numbers,
NSL headed into Rockbridge County

to multiple site assignments. Groups of
students attended to different non-proﬁts
in the area, which including everything
from the SPCA Animal Shelter to Habi-
tat for Humanity to the Woods Creek
Montessori, to complete many much-
needed projects and tasks.

The day of volunteering was long, but
rewarding. The local non-proﬁt commu-
nity welcomed the students with open
arms and said good-bye with grateful
smiles. The group at Maury River Se-
nior Center was even thanked with tasty
ice cream bars as a token of appreciation.

After multiple hours of working, all
the participants gathered at the BDG
Quad for a barbeque dinner and live mu-
sic provided by Drew Martin ‘ 13, Steven
Stites ‘I3, and Keith Trump ‘ I4, provid-
ing the perfect opportunity to relax, un-
wind, and reflect on a meaningful day of
service.

NSL’s biggest events of the year are the
Fall and Spring Nabors Service Days,
but it doesn’t end there. Throughout the
year, NSL is determined to spread the
spirit of service and connect W&L with
the Rockbridge community.

If you are interested in participating in
a bit of ‘volunteer work, or just want to
get to know some of the non-profits in

Tahe a BITE out cfﬁex

for a restaurant that has sandwiches called
"I)irt_\ Ilarry" and a menu longer than my
sure knows how to keep “lo-

arm. ’\/Iacado

bacon, lettuce, and tomato.

Many sandwiches on the menu are no
more than eight dollars, and with the Inany

CS.

     
 

 

, v ..

the area, check out the Nabors Service
League online at www.wlu.edu/x29569.
xm/. Filling out a volunteer proﬁle is a

Students lending a helping hand

  
    

on Nabors Service Day.
Rachael Samuels/GUEST CONTRIBUTOR

day!

quick and easy way to get involved to— j

The downstairs of Macado‘s includes some
booth seating in the bustling bar area. where

 

cal" and "last - the top two adjectives that
dcsc“be it perfectly. Right in the heart of
Lexi gton on Main Street, this Virginia chain
restaurant takes the very best of local histori-
cal moments and every 4L PN channel to cre-
ate an atmosphere that every college student
should experience.

The extensive menu stretches on and on.
combining creative sandwich names with
huge tariety. Theres no way.you could
eat your way through this menu in a year,
let alone the four that tnost students spend
in Lexington. Its easy to pick favorites as
well. mine being the “Tonto," two buttered

buns holding together a tasty
cotnbination of
breaded chick-
en, honey
mustard,

specials and offers that Macado's serves up
daily. a two-person meal could easily end up
being less than 25 dollars with tip. For the
health-conscious diners, the salads are hearty
and come with a wide selection of dressing
options. The KC Mac and Cheese. a popu-
lar entree which combines creamy macaroni
and cheese with broccoli and grilled chicken.
is a nice change from the normal sandwich
choices and is a favorite among customers.
On Mondays. you can expect to find
yourself with stic fingers after enjt ‘lug
thirty-five cent win The specials change
from half- ‘ed spinach and artichoke dip
on Thursday (which I happily enjoyed with
lightl_v seasoned pita bread) to “Kids Eat
Free" 4pm to 9pm on Tuesday. The servers
know the never-ending Incnu well and can
give good opinions on food and drink choic-

you‘ll always be sure to spot some VMI ca-
dets and locales enjoying a night out in town.
A quieter mood is offered upstairs and outside
on the balcony, which comes with a beautiful
view of Lexington. Of course. Macado‘s of-
fers a nightlife option as well, and if you‘re
under 21. you won‘t be allowed in after I()
pm.

Fora simple SI I .90, I enjoyed splitting an
already half price appetizer with a friend. a
“Tonto“ sandwich, and still managed to leave
an I 8 percent tip. Considering the tnore heav-
ily priced restaurants in Lexington. Macado‘s
offers a more suitable, college student-
fricndly environment along with a tantaliz-
ingly long menu that can keep even the picki-
est eaters smiling.

RELIABLE ANAD AFFORDAB

SPEEDING
DUIS '

LE LEGAL REPRESENTATION
RECKLESS DRIVING

 

OOOOOO

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS
CAR ACCIDENTS
CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS

SHEILAMOHEBMOIIEBLEGALCOM - (540) 520-7355

 

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI '

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

sports

 



Abell-ity to T

W&L s new football head coach proves to be a versati

By Pat Mccarron
5 TA F F w R IT E R

“A few weeks ago I celebrated my 67th
birthday and on that day I found myself
pausing and reﬁecting on my life’s jour-
ney. 1 have been coaching for 45 years
and it feels like it is the right time to re-
tire.”

After 17 years of coaching Washington
and Lee’s "football team, Frank Miriello
retired this past January. Under normal
circumstances, this would have cata-
lyzed a mass search to ﬁll the void ofthe
vacant head coach position. Luckily for
W&L, the football team needed only to
look within its system to ﬁnd the perfect
match.

Scott Abell had spent six years as head
coach at Amherst County High School
before coming to W&L as the offensive

coordinator in 2008. Abell said his aim
was to get his foot in the door hoping
one to day become head coach of a col-
lege football team. Abell did more than
just that. He made an immediate and
sustained impact during his three years
in this position, bringing to W&L what
he describes as a “unique offense.” The
team’s average yards and points per
game increased steadily throughout his
tenure. 1

» Abell’s promotion to Assistant Head
Coach in 2011 was a sign of things to
come. After Miriello’s retirement W&L
picked the experienced Abell as head
coach. Abell said that the promotion was
“a desire I ’ve always had.” The prospect
of coaching in three different positions

in as many years seems daunting, but
Abell says the transition was as “smooth
as I could’ve imagined.” This was due in
part to Abell’s relationship with Miriello.
Miriello gave him a leg up by granting
him liberties to exert his own leadership
from the positions of offensive coordina-
tor and assistant head coach.

While Abell’s coaching abilities were
unaffected as his role on W&L’s foot-
ball team shifted, the relationship he had
with his players inevitably would. The
offense had already recognized Abell as
their leader, but he has taken pains to en-
sure that the defense would as well. Dur-
ing preseason practices he paid special
attention to the defense, getting more
involved in the areas he previously had

ransition

le replacement for Miriello

not. It was important that he built trust,
and he did just that. Abell met with each
defensive player individually so that
each player understood his speciﬁc role.
Now, according to Abell, his relationship
with his defense is analogous to that of
his offense.

The W&L football team is 3-1 under
Abell’s reign, and the Generals have
a promising year of football ahead of
them. Abell and company will take the
ﬁeld against Emory and Henry this Sat-
urday at home.

3

Courtesy of W&L Sports Infor-
mation

    

Heinsohn breaks scorin

Football easily defeats Guilford in their ﬁrst ODAC matchup .

Bysarah Ward
STAFF WRITER

Washington & Lee’s senior running

‘ back Luke Heinsohn scored three touch-

downs and completed six extra point at-
tempts to score 24 of the Generals’ 42
points in a 21 point win over Guilford in
Greensboro, NC on Saturday night.

Heinsohn’s effort breaks the previous
all-time scoring record at W&L with a
total of 228 career points, edging out
Marc Watson by eight points, whose re-
cord stood since 2001.

Junior quarterback Nick Lombardo
posted the ﬁrst points on the board for
the Generals with a l-yard touchdown
run with 13:43 left in the second quar-
ter. The lead was increased to fourteen
as senior running back Sasha Vandalov
rushed for a touchdown from four yards
out with 8:44 left in the half. The Gener-
als entered the locker room at halftime
with a 21-0 lead after Heinsohn scored
his ﬁrst touchdown of the night from

 

thirteen yards out with only 3:43 left in
the half.

Heinsohn continued his dominance by
scoring the ﬁrst two touchdowns of the
second half, ﬁnding the end zone with
12:47 and 0:36 left in the third quarter.
The Generals’ sixth and ﬁnal touchdown
was scored by junior quarterback Luke
Tema on a 45-yard run with six minutes
left in the game.

W&L recorded 426 rushing yards out

of 505 total yards with Heinsohn record-
ing 146 yards on the ground and senior
running back Brett Murray contributing
104 yards.

The Generals’ defense was led by se-
nior safeties Jake Pelton and Russell
Stewart. Pelton made eight tackles while
Stewart recorded four tackles and made
an interception.

Guilford scored all three of their touch-
downs in the fourth quarter, marking

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

their ﬁrst points against the Generals in
seven quarters.

The Generals (3-1) are now 1-0 in Old
Dominion Athletic Conference compe-
tition. W&L continues ODAC action
against Emory & Henry on Saturday af-
ternoon at 1:30pm for the Homecoming
contest.

 

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITE R

The Washington & Lee volleyball team
finished last weekend 3-1 after a tough
.—mid-week loss to Randolph-Macon.
With the victories, the Generals improve
to a 14-6 overall record.
“ On‘ Wednesday ﬁrst-year defensive
specialist Kasey Cannon and junior
outside hitter M.A. Boles led the W&L
defense with 10 digs apiece but the Ran-
dolph-Macon offense successfully shut
down the Generals. Only senior right
"side hitter Taylor Maxey was able to
reach a .300 kill percentage in the match.
Boles said that Randolph-Macon ran
an offense similar to W&L’s with fast
sets and strong hitters spread throughout
the front and back row. Senior outside
. hitter Mallory Carter, junior middle hit-
ter Tori Puryear, and ﬁrst-year middle
hitter Katie Rossberg led the Yellow
Jacket charge against the Generals.
“Two days after the Randolph-Macon
match, the W&L volleyball team trav-

Courtesy of W8iL Sport Information

eled to Washington, D.C. to play four
non-conference matches in the Gallan-
det Worthington Classic.

In the ﬁrst match at the tournament,
Boles recorded her 1,000 career kill at
W&L in a 3-2 loss to Geneva. She be-
comes only the ninth player in W&L
historyto reach that number. Boles cur-
rently has 1,055 kills in her three-year
‘career.

After the loss to Geneva on Friday, the
Generals defeated Shenandoah, Mes-
siah, and Trine to ﬁnish the weekend 3-1
at the Worthington Classic. Many play-
ers contributed in the victories because
the Generals were limited to only eight
of their 14-player roster due to injuries
and illness.

Boles says the team will focus on re-
covery this weekend so they can be pre-
pared for their next match at Christopher
Newport on Tuesday at 7 p.m.

Boles reaches milestone

Boles kills ]‘,000th over the weekend while the Generals go 4-] on the week

  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
   

 

 

Get li7nI(-aslnctl at B Ll5(‘...

IA-xiI|,L,tuII’s Only .‘Ii('l'()l)l'(‘\\'(‘l’)!

BUE 

BREWING COMPANY

No Serving
Pints & Cask Ale

Oktoberfest Now on Tap

IBI1-\\‘c|'y and Tap Ronni
123 S. Randolph St, Lexington, VA

Tap Room Hours:

and as needed... check our website...
www.b|uelabbrewing.com
facebook: Blue Lab Brewing Co., LLC

  
 



AB

     
   

 

540-45 8-Ol 46

Wed 4:30—7 p.m.
Fri 4:30-7:30 p.m.
Sat 2-5 p.m.

    

jh

g record .

 

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012 7 . THE Rm‘,-,.1'uM pm .

 

 

KYLE JAEGIER HAILEY IlAl{'l‘LEY
The Miami Heat became NBA champions in one of the “Not one, not two, not-three, not four...” we all know
most exciting Finals match-ups of the decade. As the play- how it ends. LeBron James was a little hyped at the party
offs progressed, you could almost sense a sort of divine they threw for his and Chris Bosh’s arrival in South Beach,
intervention. It was inevitable that the Heat and Thunder and proclaimed that the Miami Heat would win at least eight
would meet in a clash of the titans. Ultimately, the Heat championships With his arrival. And this is after his prime-
came out victorious, winning in ﬁve games in the highest . _ V _ i _ A .. time appearance when he crushed the hearts in every fan in I
1. rated ﬁve game ﬁnals sin_ce 2004. vlnitiegent Years NBA fr3~nCh1Se_$;haVe,been_5 , one of the unluckiest sports cities in America. Since then
The trio of LeBron James, Dwayne Wade‘, and Chris putting S“Per§‘a“‘°“ the 5a“.‘°1team l.n,the1r ' we’ve seen Chris Paul attempt to move to the Lakers, and
, , attempts to wm charn ionshrps. Is this good .
Bosh came together in the summer of 2010, creating a po— . for the eague? A Dwight Howard and Steve Nash successfully make the move.
larizing effect that no one could have seen coming. On , e , _, The NBA has gone absolutely crazy, and while the personnel
the day that will live in infamy as “The Decision”, LeB- Kyle and Hailey give you their take. m0VeS may be great for the Lakers and the Heat: tl1eY’Te tel‘
ron James became the arch-nemesis of almost every non- ' I rible for the NBA. '
Miami NBA fan in the world, “I seemed to be an outlier ‘ LeBron James is arguably the most talented player in the
on this matter; I celebrated LeBron James for his decision. For the ﬁrst time, one of NBA right now, and yet he needs to surround himself with Dwayne Wade and Chris Bosh
the best players in the league took matters into his own hands. James refused to sub- to win a championship. -They set themselves up as the villains (and wear fake glasses
ject his future to the wills of owners and executives. How can one blame James for While doing it). ‘ We’re forced to Watch them on TV non-Stop; and they’re always expected
teaming up with two of his closest friends (both superstars in the league) to chase a to win. Yeah sure, those are some high expectations, but they brought it upon themselves.
,. championship? I welcomed the decision! I would rather watch the Heat than a smaller The Lakers are in a Very similar situation, With about 100 years of extra experience, but
1 market team like the Bucks or the Timberwolves 10 times out of 10. It was exciting maybe I’m exaggerating. No one wants to see these teams win. Dwight Howard has set
to me that James had single handedly shifted the power in the league, No longer were - himself out as a selﬁsh diva, though maybe that will change in LA. It’s hard to judge how
players trapped, taken advantage of by front ofﬁce ﬁgures and miserable on the court, the moves will play out. Did I mention the Lakers 150 million dollar per season TV deal?
LeBron James gave superstars freedom! But honestly, is there anyone who’s not a *cough, bandwagon* Heat fan who watched the
After the Heat won the championship this season, I think more fans started to un- ﬁnals this year and thought, “Yeah, I’d like them to Win.”
derstand my position. Player movement has increased greatly, and this offseason we Smaller market teams are ultimately paying the price as Well. We haVe seen some of
saw two teams form their own “superteams.” The Nets ﬂirted with Dwight Howard these teams make a statement; the Oklahoma City Thunder made it to the ﬁnals this year,
all summer, eventually settling for a nucleus of Deron Williams, Gerald Wallace, and Which Was huge. Kevin Durant is an amazing player, Who deserves to Win a champion-
Joe Johnson. The Lakers landed the biggest names, adding Dwight Howard and Steve ship, and most likely will within the next year or two. Who’s to say that Durant won’t
(. Nash to their alreadyiimpressive roster_ These big name moves also beneﬁted small want to move in a couple years when his contract runs out? If elite players continue to
market teams _ the 76ers added Andrew Bynum, and the Nuggets received Andre stack themselves on teams it may be less possible for these smaller market teams to win
Iguodala through a trade. Championships:
We should not kid ourselves -.a select few teams have always dominated the NBA. And who can argue the stupidity of players joining together Without a quick mention
The “big three’s” of teams like the Spurs and the Celtics have dominated in recent of players like Michael Jordan, and Larry Bird? Both won multiple championships after
history. The only difference now is that players have a larger Voice in when, where, joining teams With less than stellar records. The average fan could probably name Scot-
and with whom these “big three’s” are formed NBA players are notoriously ﬁckle — tie Pippen and Dennis Rodman as teammates of Jordan, but how many people can name
just look at Howard— which means we can look forward to more and more movement_ teammates of Bird? These guys took good teams and made them elite. The ’86 Celtics and
The league will get shaken up each and every offseason. And for fans that refuse to ’90-’92 Bulls Will go doWn in history as some of the greatest Championship runs. ,
accept this progression, praising "instead the Thunder’s success through the draft, all I Would‘Bird, Jordan, and Magic Johnson have come together and created their own big
can say is good luck, The Thunder are not a model, they are an anomaly, three? Unlikely. Will anything but a championship be acceptable in Miami while BOSh,
Fans, we are witnessing a revolution in the NB A. Instead of griping about Wade, and James play together? Absolutely not. Is the concept of a “big three” dangerous
“big market teams”, we should buy NBA season pass! This could be one of the most to the players’ legacies and the NBA as a Whole? Without a doubt.
exciting decades in the history of the league! The Heat have risen to the top, prov-
ing that “superteams” can be successful — embrace it! Let’s all cross our ﬁngers for a
Heat-Lakers ﬁnals!

 

 

XC takes 7th at Don
Cathcart Invite

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

FH finishes week 1-1

Hampsch scores game winner against Roanoke on Tuesday

 

"'0 By Shelby Flores
, _ s TA F F w R IT E R
Thomas leads the way for the Generals zn
By Bailey Russell .
s TA F F w R IT E R
The Washington and Lee men’s cross Sophomore James Busch came
country team placed seventh out of four- in third for the Generals, taking 56th
teen teams at the Don Cathcart Invite on place in 28:01.00. First-year Levi War-
Saturday. Wilmington took the top spot ring came in 60th in 28:01.00, and Jake
with 34 points, Franklin& Marshall took Mack, also a ﬁrst-year, rounded out
second with 71 points, and host Salis- W&L’s scoring in 61st at 28:07.00. .
bury placed third with 72 points. W&L Men’s cross country will compete '
ﬁnished with 204 points. next at the Desales Invitational on Oc-
l. Junior Kane Thomas ﬁnished ﬁrst for tober 13, their ﬁnal meet before the Old
W&L in 23rd at 26:48.00. Scott Sugden, Dominion Athletic Conference Champi-
a sophomore, placed 52nd with a time of onships.
27:48.00.
0.
Courtesy of W&L Sports lnformatlon
After falling behind 2-0 the Washing- First-year goalkeeper Megan Axelrod Generals took 11 shots with four on goal
ton & Lee ﬁeld hockey team could only started off the ﬁrst 16:24 for W&L. Se- while Roanoke took seven shots with
pull within one point in their 2-1 loss at nior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne played the three on goal.
. Wilson last Saturday. The loss drops the ﬁnal 53:36 and tallied four saves. Axelrod and Kyne each played a half

 

    

ortesy f & Sports Information

Generals to a 3-6 overall record.

Senior forward Maggie Sipps scored
both goals for Wilson. Sipps’s goal in the
ﬁrst half was assisted by junior midﬁeld-
er Megan Schneck. Sophomore forward
Hillary Swartz recorded the assist for
Sipps’s second score.

“Wilson’s offense was very scrappy
and played with a lot of heart,” sopho-
more defender Mary Virginia Long said.
“After their ﬁrst goal, [our] defense
quickly adjusted and made it very difﬁ-
cult for them to get shots off and score.”

Although they lost to Wilson, the
Generals improved their conference re-
cord to 1-1 earlier in the week with a vic-
tory over Roanoke last Tuesday.

Junior defender Riley Hampsch
scored the only game of the contest 15:56
into the ﬁrst half. Hampsch deﬂected the
ball on a penalty corner for the score. It
was Hampsch’s ﬁrst career goal in 41
games for the Generals. »

_The Generals decisively controlled
the game and had 21 penalty comers
compared to only three for Roanoke The

of the game. Axelrod made one save in
the ﬁrst half and Kyne had two saves in
the second half.

“We will continue to improve,” Long
said. “We are continuing to grow and
learn as a team, and we are looking for-
ward to a successful rest of the season.”

The Generals return to conference
play at Lynchburg College on Wednes-
day at 5 p.m. and will return home to
play Eastern Mennonite on Saturday at
12 p.m. on the W&L Turf Field.

 

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -’

sports

 

M O N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

in the numbers
6

The total number of turnovers that the Buffalo Bills had
against the New England Patriots on Sunday. The Patriots
came back from a 21-7 deﬂcit in the third quarter to win
52-28.

This is also the total number of turnovers that the Kansas
City chiefs had against the San Diego Chargers. Chiefs
quarterback Matt Cassel got picked off three times in the

37-20 loss.

55&5

The total number of yards that Miami University quarterback

‘Stephen Morris threw for on Saturday. it is an Atlantic Coast

Conference record. Morris threw five touchdowns, including
a game winning 62 yard touchdown to Phillip Dorsett with
19 seconds left. Miami defeated North Carolinastate 44-

37.

J30:aruiz10

Los Angeles Angels’ center ﬁelder Mike Trout hit his 30th
home run on Sunday, becoming the first rookie to hit 30
home runs and steal 40 bases in a season. He is just two

stolen bases shy of another record: becoming the third
player in MLB history to have 30 home runs and 50 stolen
bases. Only Eric Davis in 1987 and Barry Bonds in 1990

have done it so far.

A 23

The number of games in a row that the Atlanta Braves have
won with Kris Medlen starting for them. This is the longest

such streak in the modern era of the major leagues.

tsoapbox

“Tonight was a season—deﬁning game for
us. We could have gone down big like that
and just packed it in, but that’s not this
team’s M. 0. That’s not how we approach
it.”

-}1anlreesrlgntﬂelderNlckSwIsheraflnrdefeadng
the ToronmBlueJqys9-6onSundqy. Theiankeesare
currenl1yl1edwithtlieBaltimoreOi1olesforilrstplaoe
In theAmei1can LeagueEaadMslon. 1heYankaes
oniyhaveoniya mreegameserieswlththeBostnn'
Redsaxathomeleftlntneseason, fmmESPN.oom

"We expect to score that many points in a
game, but the goal is to score more than
our opponent and we came up a little short
today.”

- Baylorquarlerback Nick Florenceaflier losing
70-Batowestvlrgnla. Floreneethrewilve
touehdawnsand 581yards, breaklngthe Baylor
record prevlouslyheld byRobertGr1flIn IlI,from
PN.eom

ondeck

G 0 I f W: Generals invite Day 1

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The men’s soccer team split two at home
this week, losing 2-1 against Ferrum on Tues-
day and shutting out Bridgewater 3-0 on Sat-
urday. The games bring Washington & Lee’s
record to 6-3 (3-1 ODAC).

Dave Phillips scored off ofa goal kick 25
seconds into the game versus Ferrum, but ul-
timately the fastest goal in Generals soccer
history wasn’t enough to win. The Panthers
scored two goals off of free kicks in the ﬁnal
ten minutes to tie and take the game.

The Generals had possession of the ball
throughout the game and took 21 shots, but
they were unable to overcome a strong Fer-
rum defense.

First-year goalkeeper Kieran McQuilkin

Soccer does the s

Generals lose on Tuesday before upsetting Bridgewater

 

Courtesy f W&L Sports lnformatin

had one save in the game for the Generals.

   

W&L came back from the loss to win a
huge game against Bridgewater, previously
undefeated in the ODAC. The Generals played
an aggressive game, keeping the Eagles to just
one shot on goal. Juniors Parker Wolﬁnger
and Alex Zelinski and sophomore Zach Colby
each contributed to the Generals’ total.

F irst-year Cary Carabasi, senior Basti
Richter, and sophomore Al Organ all contrib-
uted to a strong defensive effort. Sophomore

 Albert Civitarese made one save while spend-

ing the full game in the net for the Generals.

The Generals will play two more ODAC
contests this week, traveling to Shenandoah
on Wednesday for a 7 pm contest, and hosting
Lynchburg on Saturday at 3 pm.

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee was able to keep un-
defeated Lynchburg out of the net in a 0-0 tie
on Sunday.

Hosting team Lynchburg, ranked ninth in
the nation, was kept scoreless thanks to the
goalkeeping of ﬁrst-year Addie Healy. Healy
made eight saves while spending 110 minutes
in goal including three over the course of two
overtimes.

The Generals were outshot by the Hornets
19-10 but did have several opportunities to
score.

W&L had two close shots about 36 min-
utes into the game. Sophomore forward Katie

Rossi forced Lynchburg goal keeper Audrey
Moore to make a save.

Less than a minute later the Generals
earned a comer kick. Sophomore midﬁelder
Haley Ward was able to get the ball to se-
nior defender Alex Todd but Todd’s shot was
blocked by defenders.

Ward led the Generals in scoring attempts
with ﬁve followed closely by Rossi with three
ofher own.

Earlier in the week the Generals were able
to beat fellow Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence team Bridgewater at home. Ward struck
ﬁrst in the 17th minute and the Generals never

W&L keeps Lynchburg quiet

Lynchburg kept scoreless for the ﬁrst time all season in 0-0 tie

looked back, eventually winning 2- l.

Sophomore forward Katherine Rush added
on another goal in the 58th minute of play.

Healy made ﬁve saves in the contest, al-
lowing one in the 71st minute off a shot by
Paxton Sauerwald. '

After the week the Generals move to a 6-2-
1 overall record and a 4-1-1 ODAC record.
The Generals continue conference play this
week with a game at Roanoke on Wednesday
at 7 pm and hosting Eastern Mennonite on
Saturday at ll am.

By Leigh Dannhauser

SPORTS EDITOR

The women’s tennis team was able to
take both the singles and doubles champion-
ships at the [TA Regional Championships on
Monday. I

Sophomore Meghan Buell took the in-

"  dividual title for the Generals. in her ﬁrst

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

By Bailey Russell
STAFF warren

Short Run. Running at Lehigh University, the
Generals took the number one spot with 59
points. Eastern Mennonite took second with
88 points and Lebanon Valley came in third
with 178 points.

The Generals had three runners in the top
seven and seven runners in the top 30.

Senior Lauren Schultz, the top ﬁnisher this
season, led the Generals with a fourth-place
ﬁnish at 22:58. Fellow senior Molly Ortiz ﬁn-
ished seven seconds behind Shultz in ﬁfth at
23:05. Junior Annelise Madison took seventh
in 23:12.

F irst-year Rachel Solomon was the fourth
scorer for W&L in 19th at 24:05, and rounding
out the top ﬁve for the Generals Casey Mack-
intosh with a time of 24: l 0, good for 24th.
The other two Generals in the team’s top sev-
en were junior Brandie Huffman in 24:20 for
27th and ﬁrst-year Kaitlin Bonaro in 24:23 for
30th. -

The Generals have taken the top spot at
each of the three meets the team has competed
in this year,including the W&L Invitational
on Sept. 8.

Solomon commented on the success of

the team by saying, “lt’s really exciting, and

W: Generals Invite Day 2

 

XC takes to

Women win their third in three meets -

 match of the day Buell faced Katie Cecil

of Carnegie Mellon in the semiﬁnals. The
match was close and went to three sets. but

‘_i Buell pulled out the victory in 7-6 (5), 3-6,
., 6-l.

Buell then faced Elizabeth Martin, also

‘ of Carnegie Mellon. Buell was able to take

the match in two sets, 7-6 (2), 6-4, to secure

The women’s cross country team competes

 

oresy of L Sports information

3 i A A o
— Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

M: Ted Keller Memorial Day 1

Buell takes two titles

Women is tennis takes singles ’and doubles ’title at 1 TA Regionals

the championship.

‘Buell teamed up with juior Claire Cahill
in the doubles competition. In the champion-
ship match the duo faced Salisbury’s team of
Jillian Poppe and Natalie Savage. Buell and
Cahill took the match in 6-4, 3-6, 6-4, to take
the doubles’ title and Buell’s second regional
championship ofthe day.

Women’s tennis will continue their fall
season next week. They face Emory and Hen-
ry at Wofford College in a 10 am contest on
October 7.

port invitational.

 
  

M: Ted Keller Day 2

Volleyball

at CNU 7 pm

Field Hockey

at Lynchburg 5 pm

vs Eastern Mennonite 12 pm

M e n ’ s Te n n is lTA Regional Champs

Men’s Soccer

at Shenandoah 7 pm

vs Lynchburg 3 pm

women’s Soccer

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs Eastern Mennonite 11 am

vs Greensboro 1 pm

Football

vs Emory & Henry 1:30

plits ,

p spot again 

The women’s cross country team placed it makes us optimistic about our potential for next on October 13, at the Christopher New-
ﬁrst out of 34 teams on Saturday at the Paul the next meets.” ‘

 

 

  

 camp“: gowrﬁmgarowthc resemblance?
 We did! Here’s your look at some   A

celebrity dopplegangers wandering  

around campus. I
- - A&L / page 5

WAsrHNGToNi}ii\io LEE UNIVERSITY 

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

BY THE sruoturs

AND FOR THE STUDIENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXVII,NUMBER5

‘ Bystanders limit sexual assault

As the number of sexual assaults reported hasdeclined, W&L is taking on a bystander intervention program

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

Although sexual assault is a com-
monly heard term during the weeks of
ﬁrst-year extended orientation, many
would be surprised to learn that unwant-
ed sexual touching of females at Wash-
ington and Lee has actually gone down
in the past years.

According to the biennial National
College Health Assessment survey,
whose results were released this sum-

could step in and do something.”
However, the new school year has
ushered in even further changes in the
realm of sexual misconduct education.
One of the biggest changes is the switch
from Green Dot to the new Bringing in
the Bystander (BITB) program. '
“[Green Dot] is a great program, and
it did some wonderful things for us, but
one of the reasons that we wanted to

“[ Green Dot] is a great program, and it did some

wonderful things for us, but one of the reasons that

we wanted to switch was that we felt it gave us more

ﬂexibility to adapt to our campus. ’

I

DEAN SIDNEY EVANS, Chair of the Healthy Sexual Culture committee
 

mer, the amount of “sexual touching
without consent” dropped from 19.3% to
14.6% of females at W&L between 2010
and 2012.

Jan Kaufman, W&L’s Director of
Health Promotion, said that the school
used to approach sexual assault in terms
of “harm reduction,” but that in telling
the student body how to protect them-
selves from sexual harm, certain “rape
myths” were promoted.

“Rape is always the fault of the per-
son committing the rape period,” said
Kaufman.

“The buzzword right now for sexual
misconduct and sexual assault program-
ming is ‘bystander intervention,’” said
Kaufman, regarding the possible cause
of the declining rates.

In the 2009-2010 school year, W&L
adopted a program called Green Dot,
which was geared at educating the stu-
dent body about sexual assault through
this “bystander approach.”

“Typically, there’s other people
around, and the scenario plays out over
a long period of time, where there’s a lot
of people in the environment, and many
times they are acting as facilitators of
what will ensue,” said Kaufman. “These
people who are in the environment~the
bystanders——and even the facilitators,

switch was that we felt it gave us more
flexibility to adapt to our campus,” said
Dean Sidney Evans, chair of W&L’s new
Healthy Sexual Culture committee.

“It was really hard to blend Green
Dot with the other things we were do-
ing,” said Janet Boller, W&L’s clinical
psychologist at the forefront of sexual
misconduct education.

Kaufman said that BITB is a much
shorter program, allowing more students
to be educated. She continued to say that
Bringing in the Bystander encompassed
more in its subject matter than just rape.

“We wanted to make sure that we
didn’t give the message that only rape is
inappropriate,” said Kaufman.

r
._._s

= hélitliedwithoul their consent

‘National averages
are in parentheses.
Although the
survey question
“as rephrased
between 2008 and

the percen
‘change bet
these mo _
was only a
decrease, nm in

the question an
unlikely factor in
data disc,rcpnnc_\'.

, the rephrasing of

Kaufman described the new program

2004 2006

701')

as including PowerPoints, videos, activi-
ties and discussion.

Along with the BITB program, the
school has adopted other techniques in
dealing with sexual misconduct, such
as creating the Healthy Sexual Culture
Committee,_ which combines members
from SPEAK, l in 4, End It and a small
group of faculty members and adminis-
trators.

“What it started to look like to me is
that many of our prongs were competing
with one another rather than supporting
one another,” said Evans, explaining a

type of hyper pluralism created by too
many different campus organizations
dealing with sexual misconduct.

“We thought it would be good to put
together a group of people that could
think strategically about what our goals
are, what messages we want to send, and
come up with some guidelines that could
help not only us but also the people who
are involved in these activities to assess
the messages of the program and see if

they really accomplished what we want-’

ed,” Evans added.
There has also been a renovation to

the procedures under V»llICll the Student-
Faculty Hearing board tries sexual as-
sault cases.

“We’ve ll10\'€Cl to an ‘investigator
model,” said Boiler. She explained that
two trained investigators will now be in
charge of gathering information about a
reported sexual assault offense.

“They will go and be the ‘evidence-
collectors’ so that if someone does de-
cide to go forward with a he2iring...it is
not just one person‘s word against anoth-
er’s,” said Boller. "“Wc are hoping that
makes it a friendlier process for someone

who would like to move forward.”

In addition, the Healthy Sexual Cul-
ture Committee is extending talk about
sexual assault beyond ﬁrst-year orienta-
tion, going to sororities and fraternities
to talk about the bystander approach and
resources available on campus.

“Any statistic that we have above‘

‘zero’ in the sexual misconduct arena is

too much,” said Kaufman.

“The hope is that through more dis-
cussion, talking about it, more educa-
tion, then [that] is going to impact what
people do.” '

Investigating X-rays and Rembrandt

Uﬂelman discusses new technology that will be implemented in museums to make groundbreaking discoveries in art

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Last Friday in the Science Center,
Dr. Erich S. Uffelman presented a lec-
ture called “Scientific Adventures with
Rembrandt, Vermeer, Veronese, Peale,
Ghissi, and Others.”

The talk focused on how science can
help paintings. Science can determine
an artwork’s condition, its materials and
its artist.

Scientists recently made an interest-
ing discovery about “An Old Man With a
Beard,” a 17th-century painting by Rem-
brandt Harmcnszoon van Rijn. Using
X-ray ﬂuorescence (XRF) spectroscopy,_

E scientists bombarded the painting with

innumerable and powerful X-rays. 'As a
result, the painting’s atoms emitted ﬂuo-
rescent X-rays which mapped out~the
pigments and colors beneath the surface.

It was revealed that beneath the old
man, Rembrandt had begun painting a
self—portrait of himself. “He may have
removed the original paint or perhaps he
never got to the stage of putting the paint
on,” said University of Antwerp Profes-
sor Koen J anssens.

Before their chemicalization during
the Industrial Revolution, paints con-
tained naturally-occurring substances,
like the elements of the periodic table.
XRF traces the ﬂuorescent, or colored,
X-Rays given off by elements like mer-
cury (which emits red X-Rays), iron
(yellow, orange, and brown), and copper
(blue and green).

The art world will soon beneﬁt from
the proliferation and price reduction of
cutting-edge, scientiﬁc technologies. All

 
 

. ; ‘I J
:-, .
. 1}! ‘

4,4:

 

major museums will have mobile X-ray
ﬂuorescence (XRF) scanners within five
years. With these devices, museums
will be able to make more groundbreak-
ing discoveries like Rembrandt’s self-
portrait.

f‘An Old Man With a Beard” -Remb

randt van Rijn

Modem technologies such as XRF,
and still others like infrared reﬂectogra-
phy and X—Radiography, have developed
in light of attacks on artwork known as
cultural heritage objects.

In Germany in 1937, Nazis organized

an exhibition of “degenerate,” or mod-
em art, which was banned for being “un-
German” or “Jewish." Works ofart were
accompanied by slogans such as “delib-
erate sabotage of national de.t'ense,” “an
insult to German \wmanliood." and “na-

ture as seen by sick minds.”

In Afghanistan in March, 2001, the
Taliban obliterated the Buddhas of
Bamiyan for being idols against Islam.
These two statues had been watching
over Asia’s Silk Road for more than
1500 years.

In Baghdad in April, 2003, armed
thieves looted Iraq’s National Museum
while U.S. troops stood and watched.
Donald H. Rumsfeld, Defense Secretary
in 2003, said, “Stuff happens...and it’s
untidy and freedoms untidy, and free
people are _free to make mistakes and
commit crimes and do bad things.”

As cultural heritage objects are en-
dangered further, scientists like Uffel-
man seek to preserve and ‘study the genu-
ine artwork that remains.

For instance, art historian and Dutch
artist Charlotte Caspers is reconstruct-
ing a missing panel of an altarpiece by
Ghissi, a l4th—century Italian artist.

Genuine artwork, it would seem, is
not that common. Art sellers often do
not allow potential buyers to perform
XRF analysis for fear that their work
will be discovered to have been forged.

Uffelman delivered the Inaugural
Lecture of the Cincinnati Professorship
to the general public, including students,
faculty, and President Kenneth P. Ruscio.

Uffelman has taught chemistry at
Washington and Lee University since
1993. During Spring Term,.Uffelman
teaches Science in Art, a course held
abroad in the Netherlands.

 

 

l*‘.!z‘. 
,4lI\~ ..

 

» wlmaliiz

OCT 0 92012

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

 

FY elections brk ground

After speeches last Sunday, ﬁrst-year oﬂicer elections are still in the run-oﬁ’s

By Douglas McNiel
STAFF WRITE R

The elections for ﬁrst-year
representatives of the Executive
Committee (EC), the Student Judi-
cial Council (SJ C) and a First-Year
Class President occurred on Oct. 1.

The EC is primarily responsible
for handling the Honor System and
the budget. The SlC’s primary re-
sponsibilities are to handle inves-
tigations and punishment for acts
that are not covered by the Honor
System, such as sexual misconduct
and discrimination.

The First-Year Class President
is a new position. The First-Year
Class President heads the ﬁrst—year
leadership council. The ﬁrst-year
leadership council oversees ﬁrst-
year class events and fundraisers.
This position is making its re-
turn after a two-year absence on
the ballot due to an oversight.

The elections fall under the
jurisdiction of the Voting Regu-
lations Board (VRB), headed
by seniors Becky Mickel and
Billy Crosby.

The VRB oversees the elec-
tions and makes sure that the
rules are followed and that the
dates are met. —

The VRB expectations
state: “Candidates act in an
honorable manner and conduct
themselves as gentlemen and
gentlewomen. Candidates will
be afforded every beneﬁt of the
doubt, but are nonetheless held
to the highest standards of the

place on Sept. 30 in

University.”

The candidates had to abide by 0

rules including a $30 campaign
budget, no mass Internet commu-
nication and a cap of 20 campaign
posters that must be at least 30 feet
away from each other. These rules
helped ensure that the cam-
paign was fair and ev-
eryone had an equal
chance.
Debates took

Stackhouse Theater.
Each candidate was
given the
chance

to share his or her opinion on why
he or she believes that they are

   
  
  
  

qualiﬁed for the elected office, and
why the po- sition would
be im— portant to
them.
The
'day af-

ter the

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   

bates, the ﬁrst-years voted for the
ﬁrst time and because there was no
single majority in all of the three
elections, the vote has resulted in
three run-offs so far. The run-off
elections took place on Oct. 2. The
election for the offices of ﬁrst—year
EC representative and SJC repre-
sentative went into another run off
that was held on Oct. 5.
BREAKING NEWS: Paqui To-
scano has been elected to the SJC.
EC elections were still in the run-
off stage when this issue printed.

Deans move to Lee—Jackson

Slight renovations to the Lee—Jackson House have enabled several deans to move

from Baker Hall to this historic campus landmark.

‘.

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

The Lee—Jackson House will
welcome ﬁve new members on
Oct. 11 when the Oﬂices of the
Dean relocate to the historic land-
mark on campus.

Dean Suzanne Keen, Dean

bilitation project and came over to
Baker Hall. We knew that it was a
temporary office for us, but did not
know where we were going to be
permanently until this past sum-
mer,” Price said.

“We moved out of Washington Hall for the Col-

onnade rehabilitation project and came over to

Baker Hall. We knew that it was a temporary

oﬁice for us, but did not know where we were go-

ing to be permanently until this past summer. ’

J

WENDY PRICE, Assistant Dean of W&L

Wendy Price, and Dean Marcia
France, along with their two sup-
port staff, Ms. Virginia Garrett
and Ms. Michelle Rothenberger,
are moving out of their temporary
ofﬁces in Baker Hall and into the
Lee—Jackson House located at 8
East Washington St. for permanent
residency.

“We moved out of Washing-
ton Hall for the Colonnade reha-

Several departments have made
the same transition both in and out
of Washington Hall to Baker Hall
or various locations around cam-
pus. “There is a different shufﬁe of
ofﬁces going back into Washington
Hall,” said Price. “The Ofﬁces of
the President, the Ofﬁces of the
Provost and the Ofﬁce of Advance-
ment are returning to Washington
Hall along with the Philosophy

Department.”

Price said it is important to note
that the entrance for students into
the new office is actually the back
of the house. Keen’s ofﬁce is lo-
cated in the front parlor, while the
remaining ofﬁces for Price, France
and their support staff are convert-
ed from bedrooms once used by
previous residents.

The Lee—Jackson House has a
long-standing history. According
to wlu.edu, the house was built in
1842 and at that time was intended
to house the president of Washing-
ton College. Hence its name, it was
also home to Robert E. Lee and his
family during his presidency of
Washington College from 1865 to
1869, as well as Virginia Military
Institute Professor Thomas “Stone-
wall” Jackson and his ﬁrst wife,
Elinor Junkin.

According to Price, the house
has since then been occupied by
several other members of the
Washington and Lee community.
“It’s been lived in by a variety of
other presidents and I believe it
has had faculty housing over the
years,” said Price. “It has been both

an ofﬁce and residential space.”

Due to its historical signiﬁ-
cance, very little remodeling was
done to prepare for the Offices of
the Dean. Ms. Carole Bailey, Proj-
ect Manager in the Oﬂice of Facili-
ties Management, was responsible
for managing the construction.

“The approach was to disturb
the historic fabric of the building
as little as possible in the spirit of
preservation,” said Bailey.

Most of the effort went toward
maintenance. Non-invasive struc-
tural reinforcement measures were
deployed under the house and a
walkway was added, according to
Bailey.

France is especially excited
about the new oﬂice because of
its historical prestige. “It is really
wonderful that I’m working in a
space with such historical signiﬁ-
cance,” France said. “One of the
things I really love about W&L is
all of the history and I think it’s
really cool to get the opportunity
to work in a, building that has so
much of it.”

4

RELIABLE AND AFFORDAB

 

SHEILAMOHEB@MOHEB

O

OOOO

O

IVIQHEB LEQAL DEFEN§E, PLLQ

LE LEGAL REPRESENTATION
RECKLESS DRIVING

SPEEDING
DUIs

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS

CAR ACCIDENTS

CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS
LEGAL.COM - (540) 520-7355

    

r r. if‘ av‘
.  ‘¥By Hannah Howard
A STAFF WRITER

Former Philippine president
accused of stealing funds

‘ The Philippine government accused its former president, Glo-
ria Macapagal Arroyo, of misusing nine million dollars in state
lottery funds. She allegedly stole these funds that had been in-
tended for charitable purposes and used the money for campaign
expenses. She is now in the custody of the Philippine National
Police. This is her third arrest. The current government also ar-
rested nine other ofﬁcials for their involvement.

I I I I
Turkish parliament approves
I I I I I I
inrtiatwes against Syria
Thursday morning, Turkey retaliated against Syria’s mortar
attacks by shelling government military positions. In light of
these attacks, the Turkish parliament approved legislation that
allows for military initiatives against Syria when the govem-
ment deems it necessary. Five Turkish citizens and two Syrian
troops died in the attacks. UN and NATO recently convened to
discuss the matter between the two countries. Council members

soon hope to release a statement condemning the actions of both
countries.

Landslide adds to recent
natural disasters in China

A landslide hit the Chinese village of Zhenhe. This is the
second largest natural disaster to hit the country in a very short
period. China is still recovering -from the Sept. 7 earthquakes.
The landslide destroyed two farmhouses and a school. Normally,
students would not have been in school but they were trying to
make up for days missed after the quakes. Oﬂicial reports say
that at least 18 young children and one villager were buried by
the landslide.

U5. and South Korea reach
agreement on missiles

The United States and South Korea have formed a new agree-
ment regarding the reach of South Korea’s missiles. The agree-
ment is a response to the increased threat from North Korea. The
‘United States agreed to help South Korea bolster their ballis-
tics program capabilities. Previously the range of missiles was
capped at a range of 300 kilometers, however, under the new
terms the limit is 800 kilometers. The agreement will likely rattle
the North Korean missile program.

Russian boy discovers
mammoth carcass in Siberia

An 11-year-old Russian boy stumbled upon a mammoth car-
cass in northern Siberia. It was embedded in the permafrost near
Sopochnaya Karga Cape. The frost left the bones well preserved.
Professors from the Zoology Institute in St. Petersburg exca-
vated the bones and have been studying them for the past few
months. The mammoth, nicknamed J enya, died at 16-years-old,
measuring two meters tall and weighing in at 500 kilograms. The
bones, dated to be approximately 20,000 years old, show signs of
possible human touch.

Libya prime minister
dismissed from post

Libya’s prime minister, Mustafa Abu Shagur, was dismissed
from his post this week. He was the ﬁrst elected prime minister

in the country after the overthrow of the former prime minister _

last year. However, he failed twice to win a vote from the Gen-
eral National Congress (GNC) which would have allowed the
formation of an emergency cabinet. After the second defeat, he
was asked to step down. The GNC now has four weeks to elect
a replacement.

Abortion rights boat barred
access by Moroccan navy

Dutch activists from the group Women on Waves were sup-
posed to land in Smir, Morocco on Thursday to raise awareness
about abortion rights for women. Their boat, dubbed the “abor-
tion boat,” was barred access to the country by the Moroccan
navy. Women on Waves sent another yacht not associated with
the group ahead of the abortion boat because they suspected ac-
cess would be denied. I

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

 

opinions

Ten shades of W&L: fitting

General life wisdom for the ‘collegiate Lexingtonian

By Caroline Hamp
s TA F F w R IT E R

I’m a sophomore now, so obviously
that means I know everything. Professor
Desjardins once poked fun at me, saying
that sophomore originates from the Greek,
“wise fool.” Ijust love it when professors
call me an idiot. Which is why I am here
to give the ﬁrst-years some tips. By this
point, I’m sure you’ve already learned
some of these lessons. After all, the best

way to learn is by doing, right?
Embrace D-Hall. For most stu-
. dents, it is only fully accessible for
the ﬁrst year, so take advantage of it while
you can! Despite the chicken that gets
reused into different platters (completing
its D-Hall cycle in the Mexican Tortilla
Soup), it’s pretty tasty. But beware of the
desserts: you don’t need Royale Cook-
ies, Magic Bars, DIY Cupcakes, Lemon
Squares, AND Mint Chocolate Chip Pie
after every meal. Trust me, the freshman

ﬁfteen is not ﬂattering.
Get to know members of the
. opposite sex. Platonically. Too
much testosterone or too much estrogen
can be a bad thing. There are beneﬁts to
having friends of the opposite sex. For me
(since I’m, you know, a female), it’s being
able to burp without hiding it, watching
sports games with enthusiasm, and openly
cracking up at dirty jokes.
The dorms are only temporary;
. next year, you will probably live
somewhere different. But until then, buy
some Raid (aka cockroach-killing spray).
Wear shower shoes no matter what, even
if you’re stumbling into the bathroom at 2
am on a Friday night. Get used to climb-
ing the stairs (yes, I count my trek to fourth
floor Graham-Lees as a workout). And
don’t be ashamed to put a toddler safety
bar on your lofted bed.

NO CARGO SHORTS. (That
It goes for guys and girls.) People
on this campus are stylish, in a preppy,
straight out of a J.Crew or Lilly Pulitzer
catalog way. I’m not necessarily a stylish
person, and I secretly wish I could go to
class in pajamas on some mornings, but
that would be social suicide. So don’t be
afraid to dress up or have fun with clothes.
Pastels are not just for girls. Cowboy boots
are not just for the ranch. And Sperry ’s are
not just for the yacht.
Class registration is war. Don’t
. worry about getting into the same
classes as friends because you don’t have
time to think about anyone but yourself.
Play dirty. Go ahead; press that “Submit”
button at 6:58 am.
6 Its okay if your entire home-
2; 5. town thinks you go to William
and Mary or some made-up school called

Washington and Franklin in St. Louis.
Just nod your head and let it go, unlike me,
who actually tries to correct them every
two minutes. It’s a pride thing. I mean, we
go to one of the best colleges in the world,
and if people can’t get the name right, well
excuse-moi. Pardon my French.
Make professors your best
. friends. We go to a small school;
embrace it! Knowing your professors will
make life a lot easier. They will love you
and take care of you. They will write fab-
ulous recommendations and take you out
for coffee and help you out when class gets

diﬁicult.
8 Accept the fact that your ID
. card looks like a mug shot.
Your teachers see it. Your friends see it.
And they may judge you based on that aw-
ful photo. Unfortunately, you have it for
the next four years,_ so get used to it and

in for the average freshman

suck it up.
 Get involved! We have
' ‘ . hundreds (literally) of clubs,
athletics, arts, and student activities. Ever
heard of Cat Lovers Anonymous? Okay,
you probably haven’t heard of that one be-
cause we don’t actually have it (andrif you
have, then you might actually be at Wash-
ington and Franklin). But you can start it!
Or there are plenty of other options I’m
more of a dog person anyway.
1@ Be Yourself. Yeah, yeah, I
. had to end on a cheesy note,
but seriously: W&L’s culture has a way of
sucking you in and creating clones. Don’t
be one of them. Despite everything I just
said, this is the most important one, and
if that’s what it takes, I’d rather see more
Converse on campus than cowboy boots.

King Obama robbed by Romney-hood

Why Romney came out on top after last Wednesday is headlining debate

By Victoria Bell
_STAFF WRITER _
Romney was commanding. Romney

looked like a president. If I didn’t know
who was the sitting commander in chief
and had to guess on October 3rd, I would
have placed my bets on Willard. I would
have been wrong. I think Obama expect-
ed the manner of his cadence to win the
approval of the American people. He was
wrong.

Romney was bold, pointing out that
PBS funding and Obamacarei would be
slashed if he were elected POTUS. Rom-
ney addressed Obama directly.Romney
had speciﬁc and pointed actions he would
take as POTUS, whereas Obama regular-
ly look flustered. Mid-interview, howev-
er, it was as though Obama remembered
he needed to smile, for approval ratings
sake, and we saw that ﬂashy smile until
the termination of the debate.

So, what does this mean overall for the

election? Thisdebate is a pivotal point in
the campaign. America is tuned in now,
and many Americans are watching to de-
termine where they will designate their
support. I suggest that after this debate, it
is a different race. The American people-
witnessed Romney in a light outside of
his visage the media has painted in the
campaign leading up to this debate. Ac-
cording to CBS, in a poll of 533 uncom-
mitted voters, 46% say Romney won and
22% say Obama won with the rest being
undecided.

Frankly, both conservatives and liber-
als wholeheartedly believe in the welfare
of the American people. Jonathan Haidt,
a researcher in psychology and politics,
has shown that both conservatives and
liberals are motivated by morality. Haidt
further shows the difference between
conservatives and liberals is the set of

moral categories by which they abide. In
other words, conservatives look to loy-
alty, authority, and sanctity. Liberals look
to compassion and fairness.

While emotions and personal inter-
ests should play a part in legislation,
good policy is not be made on emotional
whims. Still, humans are not numbers
to be shuffled around and put into equa-
tions. Sadly, this often happens. In short,
conservatives,liberals, and the like need
to figure out how to work together to de-
sign policy that addresses the hard policy
questions while maintaining regard for
human nature.

Like what you read? For more
news and opinion, tune in on _
Wednesday nights at 7:30pm to
Straight Talk with AP and Vicky B
.on WLU_R.

 

Surviving as the only male in class

A how-to guide for that one class with crazy ratios

By Jackson Knight
G U E s T w R I T E R

If you wear a size 10 and ‘/2, please try
to put yourself in my shoes. Everyone else
just try to empathize as best you can with
what I am about to say. I walked into one
of my classes on the ﬁrst day of winter
tenn only to see 30 girls staring back at
me. I froze. “Stay calm,” I told myself. All
I knew about females was what I had seen
on the history channel and read in story-
books when I was young. I never thought I
would have to use any of that knowledge,
but I began desperately scanning my brain
for some piece of infonnation that might
help me survive the encounter. I recalled
a story my dad had once told me. Little
Red Riding Hood. That’s it! If I could
somehow disguise myself as a wolf, then
I would be able to disguise myself as one
of them, and they wouldn’t be able to rec-
ognize me until I tried to eat them. Luckily
I wasn’t hungry. Unluckily there were no
nearby wolf costumes, and class was about
to start. So I sat down.

As I sat there staring at the door waiting
for one of my own kind to stumble in and
realize that he and I were in this together, I
sobbed loudly. I looked over at some girls
in the front row having a conversation. I
couldn’t make out what they were say-
ing, but I knew they weren’t talking about
sports. I had to get out of there.

r I have now braved the flock (or is this
one of those weird ones like a parliament
of owls or a murder of crows?) of females
in my class for 3 weeks, and by no.means
am I an expert. But I’m surviving. That’s
why I decided to list a few tips here for the
2 or 3 men that this happens to annually.
Godspeed.

Don’t talk about ﬁght club (they
1: don’t seem/to like it).

Bring food. Girls love food. But

2: this can get tricky. You have to
bring food that says, “Hey, I love calories
just as much as the next guy, but I don’t re-
ally.” Stick with something like cucumber
slices and cranberry juice. The more two
items don’t taste good together, the better.
If one of the females asks if she can have
some of whatever you brought, give her
some. Females aren’t naturally aggressive
creatures, but it is best not to agitate them.
, When you participate in class,
Zn don’t give it away that you are

a male. Of course, they can tell you aren’t
one of them, but as long as you don’t rub it
in their faces, they should have no problem
with your presence. So on the ﬁrst day of
class when the teacher asks for the name
you go by, pick a unisex alias. If your
name is Bruce, I’m sorry but you now go
by Alex. Don’t worry it’s just for one se-

mester.
Shave before every class. They
4: will be less likely to mistake
you for a predator.
If you are colorblind you
55 MUST drop the class. It is too

dangerous.
- If you notice that one of the
6. females is particularly docile,
you might try befriending it. Females are
social creatures, and if one of them devel-
ops a fondness for you, you may be ac-
cepted into a social circle. If all goes well,
you will have a new network of females
who can protect you from rival female

circles. This strategy can be risky how-
ever, because females have been known
to be more hostile within their own social
circles than they are between rival gangs.
Just steer clear of drama within the herd,
and you should be ﬁne. If Clarice tells you
she thinks Gerard is cute, don’t so much
as look at him. If it’s meant to be, you and
Gerard will ﬁnd each other eventually.
Survival is the most important thing right

now. " .
Don’t be late. Females are
73 punctual, and they get an-
noyed if their punctuality is overshad-
owed by your tardiness. However, if you
absolutely have to be late to class for
whatever reason, there are some appropri-
ate excuses that can save you, like “Sorry
I’m late. I was driving behind somejerk
man who was all over the road.” Or you
could try, “Sorry I’m late. I was making
cucumber slices and cranberry juice for

my female partner. She’s the greatest!"
These 7 rules are the reason I am alive
and able to write this article. I still don’t
claim to know everything about the fe-
male race, but I’m learning. Females are
among the most unpredictable of Earth’s
inhabitants, so it is quite possible that I
will slip up,one day and get caught in a

stampede or get too close to their mouths ‘

during feeding time. But, there is one
thought that keeps me going to class day
after day: if some sort of apocalypse oc-
curred and my entire class found some
secret shelter and found ourselves to be
the only survivors, I would be the father
of everyone in the world from then on.
I’ve always wanted children...

The debate:

of nothing

a whole lot

Was the debate disappointing? Yates thinks so.

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF WRITER

The first presidential debate of this

year’s election cycle was, to put it mildly,

painful. Overall, I walked away learning
absolutely nothing new about either candi-
date, and no new details with any kind of
legitimacy arose regarding their respective
plans to rebuild the economy. The most
detail we got out of either candidate was
“according to the AARP [insert random
number] jobs would be lost here” and “ac-
cording to the Association for Independent
Businesses your plan would cost [random
number] jobs there.” Honestly, I had an
incredibly hard time sitting through the de-
bate due to the utter lack of sincerity from
either candidate and I found myself yell-
ing at my computer with every word that
exited their mouths. This debate made me
feel about the same as I would if I watched
a 2-hour campaign ad from each candidate;
I felt sad, angry, and soul-crushingly an-
noyed all at once while learning about as
much about each candidate.

I say “lack of sincerity” because I
couldn’t trust any of the ﬁgures they
were giving me. Obama would say “your
tax plan would raise the national debt by
$5 trillion dollars...” with absolutely no
source cited. Romney did the same, saying
that some random organization somewhere
at some time said that some plan Obama is
pushing would cost 700,000 jobs, with ab-
solutely no math to back up his claims. On
top of this, both candidates constantly ref-
erenced people without last names, people
I highly doubt are real sharing experiences
that I highly doubt ever happened. This de-
bate was completely void of any

meaningful commentary

to  -—_, distinguish these

can-  '-i"'* didates from one

         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

anoth- er, especially since
they both made very clear
don’t support the

that they

Simp- son-

One study gives you time for a Pinterest break

By Allie Weiss
s TA F F w R IT E R

It’s about that time again. The leaves have
started to change, rainclouds have claimed
their territory overhead for the next few
months, and professors have started writing
up the midtenns. If you’re like me, you ﬁnd
it nearly impossible to believe that Reading
Days are upon us, and it’s already time to
commit to memory everything you’ve leamed
in the past month. But don’t worry—thanks to
a recent study out of Hiroshima University in
Japan, cramming for exams just took an ador-
able tum.

You know all those videos on YouTube
of sneezing baby pandas and surprised kit-

I

tens that you watch while you’re supposed
to be leaming about WB. Yeats’ influence on
the Irish Literary Revival? Apparently, all that
procrastination has really been a form of strat-
egy. According to researchers, intermittently
viewing images of baby animals between
cognitive tasks increases focus and" sharpens
attention. ‘

In the ﬁrst of three experiments included in
this study, University students were asked to
play a game akin to the American board game
Operation. During the break, half of these
participants were shown pictures of young
cats and dogs, while the rest were shown pic-

  Is there a furry cure for the midterm blu?

tunes of older animals. Returning to the game,
students who were shown pictures of young
animals perfonned 10% better at the task; their
counterparts performed only 5.5% better.

In the second experiment, participants
were asked to conduct a number search, in
which they had to locate a specific number
on a page of forty numbers. Some participants
were shown pictures of baby animals, some
shown pictures of adult animals, and some
shown pictures of various food items. Pictures
of visually enticing foods like steak, pasta,
and sushi had no eﬂfect on participants’ subse-
quent perfonnance at the task, eliminating the

Bowles plan. Romney says he “has his own
plan” while Obama said that he was push-
ing a “modified plan through Congress,”
an outright lie in my opinion. I think the
President presenting a modiﬁed version
of a budget plan that he very publicly de-
manded then very publicly condemned
would be on the news somewhere.

Aside from a lack of content, I learned
that both candidates are not gentlemen by
any measure, given how horrifyingly rude
they were to Jim Lehrer. The complete lack
of respect both men had for Mr. Lehrer
was a real shock to me, as I was expecting
such rudeness to come from the audience
if anything. The constant interruptions,
time overages, and passive aggressive jabs
directed at Mr. Lehrer are unprecedented,
and I present them as proof that this gen-
eration of politicians is by far the rudest,
angriest, and most unproductive.

Still, the debate wasn’t completely
pointless. According to basically every ma-
jor news source, Romney won the debate.
If you were to deﬁne “win” as “not screw-
ing up” and “not offending every single
non-WASP watching” then yes, he won. I
keep hearing that all over the place, “Rom-
ney won!” but no one can seem to tell me
any particular point, phrase, or topic that
really pushed him over the top. The best
I’ve been able to extract from the politi-
cos is that Obama just didn’t really put up
much of a ﬁght for Romney. Regardless,
this has deﬁnitely shaken up the national
discussion and has stopped Obama’s mo-
mentum to a certain extent. Despite this
however,‘neither candidate has taken this
opportunity to roll out any new ads that
talk about themselves for once, stillbusy
running ads telling you not to vote for the
other guy and how awful a human being
he is. By that logic, I probably shouldn’t
vote for either, considering both are com-
plete monsters according to the candidates
themselves.

On the whole, I think a better use of
everyone’s time would have been to give
each candidate a unicycle, three bowling
pins; and ordering them to juggle while
riding. Think about it: It would get the in-

l evitable embarrassment of the candidates

nomrally associated with gaffes out of the

way, it would humble them both, it would

make me laugh, and we would learn just

about as much regarding the candi-

dates’ policies and opinions. The
debate that I think will draw a big-
ger contrast is the upcoming Vice
Presidential debate, that debate I
will LOVE to watch.

’r‘5s..~t«

possibility that the improvement in attention
stemmed merely from pleasing images.

The ﬁnal experiment involved partici-
pants engaging in a time-task, randomly being

- shown pictures that either included baby ani-

mals or didn’t. Those who viewed the animals
performed better overall, suggesting that focus
is heightened after exposure to cute images.
So go ahead-—-take a break from trying to
understand the economics of war in the Mid-
dle East Because, really, perusing videos of
baby tigers is only going to make you smarter.

  
 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&life'

 

  

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

Students in the General Development Initiative work together to reach out and empowe

By Kane Thomas
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Professors in the Shepherd Poverty
Programs often challenge their students
to not just study and understand Poverty
and its effects, but to actually get out and
do something about it. The General De-
velopment Initiative (GenDev) is a stu-
dent organization that has embraced this
challenge. Recognized as a corporation
by the state of Virginia, GenDev is dedi-
cated to economic self-empowermentfor
the poor. Through small “micro-loans,”
the organization hopes to jump-start the
economic potential of the impoverished
both domestically and abroad. GenDev
now stands on the cusp of its first direct
micro-loan, and is a prime example of
the power for positive change within the
student body at Washington and Lee. I

GenDev’s main vehicle for seIf-em-
powerment comes in the form of micro-

Ioans——smalI venture investments made '

to entrepreneurs who lack access to

E If"?
projects supported by GenDev.

credit and traditional banking. 100% of
the returns from these investments are
then reinvested in new projects, effec-
tively spreading the social beneﬁt of sev-
eral times the original loan amount over
several different communities. Between

2009 and 2012, third-party lenders, such
as KIVA and Microplace, were used to
locate and distribute loans to potential
entrepreneurs and GenDev achieved
100% repayment on their loans. Now,
GenDev is currently embroiled in con-
tract negotiations to disperse its ﬁrst di-
rect, no italics loan to a small Ecuador-
ian village.

The project started last year, when
GenDev was approached by the Presi-
dent of an NGQ based in Quito, who
offered to connect GenDev with a small
village, named Village 235, that was
seeking lines of credit. In,August, Gen-
Dev funded a trip for sophomore Ellie
Bold to visit Ecuador and explore Vil-
lage 235 and report her ﬁndings. Bold
discovered a potential project growing
pineapple along the riverbanks near the
village. The villagers informed her that
pineapple is extremely durable, low-

E

5

E .
§
.5

"'"""""~n1 m

 

 33. i j 3%

This village in Ecuador is just one of the main beneﬁciaries of the

maintenance, and valuable. Furthermore,
the pineapple could potentially become
much more valuable, because a new rail-
way is being installed near the village,
which will allow the village to ship their
produce to a wider area. The only thing

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

 

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS ED|TO.R
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITER

BUSINESS MANAGERS

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

 

 

  

Sophomore Ellie Bold smiles for the camera with grateful residents from Village 235 in Ecuador this

past August. This research trip was funded by GenDev.

preventing Village 235 fromproducing
more pineapple is lack of access to suf-
ﬁcient ‘capital. GenDev is working to
remedy this roadblock, and plans to be-
gin receiving returns on the investment
within 18 months of planting.

GenDev is also exploring potential
projects in the Dominican Republic,
Brazil, and is also promoting self-em-
powerment in Virginia. Senior Haley
Miller leads a GenDev project focused
on aiding and supporting a women’s co-
operative based out of Charlottesville.
The cooperative‘ is comprised of Bhu-
tanese and Burundian refugees who are
now earning money by sewing and mak-
ing crafts. Last year, Miller recognized a
need for basic business education among
the women and headed a program that
taught 8 business literacy courses to the
cooperative. Miller is currently work-
ing on qualifying the cooperative for a
temporary business license, as well as

expanding their production capabilities.
Buoyed by the success of its current
projects, GenDev is hoping to expand
the scope of its operations, and in the
next 5 years hopes to distribute over
$10,000 worth ofmicro-loans. This lofty
ﬁgure will only be possible with the sup-
port ofthe W&L community, in the form
of investors and new members.
GenDev’s team of 10 students en-
compasses a wide variety of majors
and skills, from Latin American Stud-
ies and Journalism to Economics and
Business. The organization includes
Kemper Scholars, Tri-Lingual Students,
Student Athletes, Executive Commit-
tee members and Johnson Opportunity
winners——in other words, average W&L
students. The potential for creative solu-
tions to the world’s problems lies within
the student body of this very institution.
Human inertia, our tendency to choose
to do nothing, is often capable of detour-

Student spotlight: Mica Fleet ‘15

Musical talent? Chick-ﬁl-a? Peacocks? Meet the starting offensive lineman

By Mariel Pearl
STAFF WRITER

Micah Nathaniel Fleet ‘15
Hometown; Memphis, Tenn.

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is_to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but '
is otherwise independent.THE RlNG—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM P-HI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
-FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Major: Journalism
ACEIVIIZIES: Football, Rockbridge Re-
port, WLUR ’

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON
JULIA LANG

M“ E WHSS Nickname from highischool?

Never had one. I’m un-nicknamable.
Everyone tries and they can’t=
ever come up with something
better than Micah.

VICTORIA BELL
SHELBY FLORES
JANEY FUGATE
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
MARIEL PEARL
JACKSON KNIGHT

Favorite restaurant
in Rockbridge Coun-
ty?

The bistro right here in Lex.
D—Hall is a long ways off.

#1 most played song
on your iPod? Q

Don’t have an iPod but the *
song I’m really into right now-
is “You Make My Dreams _
Come True” by Hall & Oates.
I’ve been really into ‘80’s mu-
sic lately.

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

Favorite part of the
Homecoming game?

The second drive of the
game. [We] blocked this one
kid so far back he ran into two
more kids and we pancaked
them all (blocking someone
so hard you put them on their
back) and our running back
ran right off us and scored
after just one play. We turned
around and celebrated at mid-
ﬁeld for an awesome block
while he was running to the
end zone... it was hilarious.

If you could start your own
frat/sorority, what would you
name it and what would your
symbol be?

This is something a friend of mine and
I actually thought of. Sigma Epsilon Chi
(EEK) and our symbol would be a pea-

‘ cock.

Why a peacock?

They’re awesome! I mean big feathers

that fold down into tails and they can still
ﬂy. Plus they strut around like a boss!

Favorite W&L memory?
Getting initiated into my fraternity. It was

then that I made it, I knew I had a.'ton of
guys around me that‘d do anything for me,
but that‘s going to be supplanted when we

win an ODAC title.

Something most students
don't know about the football
team?

We actually are students and nice guys. I

feel like most people have a perception of

football players from high school as meat-
heads that don’t take hard classes. I can’t
tell you how many times I’ve heard one
of the guys talking about some high level
science or math course they study [four]
hours a night for or how many times out at

 

ing us from the potential good that we
can accomplish. It is easier to sit back
and do nothing than it is to invest time
and effort into to trying to solve one of
humanity’s oldest puzzles. GenDev is an
example of 10 students ﬁghting against
the effects of human inertia and striving
‘to combat global poverty despite their

y0UIIg age.

 

a party I’ve seen a teammate help someone
up off the ground or make sure a girl gets a
ride on Traveller before they do.

If you could open any fran-

chise in Lex, what would it be?

Either a Chipotle or a Chick-ﬁl-a. Chick-

ﬁl-a because it‘s something that Ijust love.

Do you have any hid-
den talents?

I’m actually pretty musical.
I played the violin in high
school and was all state for
Tennessee and was actually
asked to audition for a part in
my high school’s musicals but
football got in the way.

Where's Waldo?

Chilling with Elvis and Zpac
in a mansion somewhere liv-
ing off their royalties.

What story does
your family always
tell about you?

There’s one that they say

_ that really shows my love to
° be the center of attention. I
was really little, like 5 or 6,
and someone told ajoke that I
didn’t really, get and everyone
was laughing so I stopped and
said, “Mom, I can laugh, want
I to hear my laugh?” Of course
she says yes and all I do is say
4' “HA” really loud but with no
feeling and everyonejust burst
out laughing. It’s one of my
mom’s favorite stories.

If you could choose to stay a
certain age forever, what age
would itbe?

I’d want to be 26 [be]cause hopefully by
then l‘|l either be at ESPN or an offen-
sive coordinator for a Division I football
program. Plus l’Il still be devilishly hand-
some.

Describe yourself in three
words. .
Motivated, hard-working, and goofy.

 

Genlev goes glob & gives back ,

r the poor across the world

 

 

 

_MONDl-\‘Y, OCTOBER 8, 2012

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&life

By Janey Fugate
STAF F WRITER

With his hair disheveled and his shirt-
tail untucked, Michael Hanson ‘Ol,
31-years-old, paced the dark auditorium
stage in front of a huge screen. Photo-
graphs of Torres del Paine in Patagonia,
shepherds in the craggy hills of Peru,
and the Ecuadorean Amazon ﬁlled the
screen behind him with both their sheer
scope and exoticism.

The images Hanson presented in
Stackhouse Theater last Wednesday are
the fruits of his photography work from
25 trips in 16 countries over seven years.
The story of his career as a photojournal-
ist is as arresting as his published work.

Alter graduating from Washington
& Lee in 2001 with a degree in Span-
ish, Hanson was drafted to the Atlanta
Braves’ minor league team. On the team,
Hanson became the bridge between the
American players and the Spanish-
speaking Dominicans because of his lan-
guage skills. It was this interaction that
piqued his interest in Latin America and
subsequently in photojournalism. '

Now he is an internationally recog-
nized photographer. Hanson’s photos
have been published in National Geo-
graphic and the New York Times, and
are in the collection of pop-singer Elton
John. Last week, his work led him to the
not-so-exotic Lexington, Va., to tell his
own story at his alma mater.

“My camera is my voice,” said Han- .
son. He sees himself as a “visual story- 
teller”'and uses the camera to explore
his primary passion: the source of con-
sumer items.

Hanson explained that the overarching
theme of much of his work is the idea
of tracing everyday objects’ raw materi-
als back to their birthplace and then in-
vestigating the impact of their removal. ; g
The gold in a man’s teeth or the coffee '
in your console have travelled far from
their original extraction where they have
transformed the earth.

This search for the raw, most basic .
source of such consumer items has led
Hanson to document an oil company in
the Ecuadorean Amazon, cacao beans in
Venezuela, a gold mine in Chile, and a
dam in Patagonia. '

Not all ofhis work is as environmental-
ly sensitive as these projects. Although
Hanson has worked on more glamorous
projects for travel magazines, he said, “I
don’t love taking pictures of blue skies
and beaches.” -

There is a component of social justice
that shines through his camera lens and
colors much ofhis work. No matter what
he does, Hanson stands passionately be-

er is a better consumer.”

 

, W&L gets a snapshot of Hanson

Renowned world photographer Michael Hanson ‘OI

returns to his alma mater to share his work and life philosophy

PHOTO COURTESY OFMICHAEL HANSON, NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC

bind the idea that an “informed c0nsum_ A kayaker navigates the crisp sparkling sea waters near the western coast of Vancouver Island. This
photograph was recently featured this year in “National Geographic.”

(late 61 BITE outofiex.

We all know Pure Eats - the burger joint
with donuts that never quite seems to be
open (and it‘s actually not open Monday) but
totes an amazing reputation in the Lexington
area. That reputation has yet to be proven
wrong, because Pure Eats has shown itself
to be the master of donuts and the keeper of
amazing recipes.

Pure Eats donuts are known to disappear
from the counters long before lunch time
(and even more quickly on busy meeting
days like Friday and Saturday). This legend
is well earned, as Pure Eats is home to a “do-
nut artist" who crafts the menu to satisfy our
sweet tooth addictions. While this joint is
well known for its burgers and hand-crafted
milkshakes (which are also delicious, but I
can only eat so much in one day’), its perfect-

ly-sized, three-bite donuts are the
only handmade variety in

Lexington.

On a chilly fall

morning, l en-

tered Pure

Eats to pur-

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EATBu_/"fets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday — Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm

Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm

A Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm

Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm

chase six donuts for a total ofsix dollars and
a penny (a dozen costs ten dollars), and l left
with the satisfaction of pleasant service and
a wide array of tasty options. The donut art-
ist at Pure Eats creates a specialty donut for
each day and switches between options ev-
ery few days, providing for a lot of ﬂavorful
variety.

After taking one donut of each ﬂavor, I

decided to begin with the plain donut: cake- »

like in texture. this was a lightly sweet treat,
not too sugary or overwhelming in ﬂavor,
and great for those who don‘t always enjoy
sweets. The Margarita donut was the special
of the day, and marked with a light green
icing and a salt sprinkled center, it was an
interesting combination of salty sweetness
and the possibility of tequila-soaked batter.
Although it wasn’t my favorite. it offered an
interesting take on the classic donut.

The Banana Pudding donut was outright
delicious, providing just the right amount
of real banana flavor to not make me think
I was eating a banana. Its tasty recipe and
tantalizing aroma sent it to the top of my

 

Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am
Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

l-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, \/,A 24450
540-463-3478
wvvw.Ieehi.com _See our menu online

 Twitter @berkysfood  Find us on Face book

list. Cinnamon sugar, Pure Eat’s classic do-
nut choice (available year round), is a solid
choice for those who do not like icing but en-
joy the sweetness of a topping. On the other
hand, the S’mores donut lacked the classic
“S’more” ﬂavor, failing to balance the dry
graham cracker crumbs with chocolate icing
and a hidden marshmallow topping.

Of these options, my favorite donut (al- I

most in a tie with Banana Pudding) had to be
the Reese’s Pieces donut. Glazed in a won-
derfully light peanut-butter glaze, this donut
tops the ﬂavor chart and fuels my amusement
by including mini Reese‘s pieces in the cen-
ter.

Simply stated, Pure Eats does donuts right.
It isn’t a matter of where to buy your morn-
ing treat donuts, but rather, which donut to
get. l suggest following your eye’s taste bud,
because either way you can’t go wrong with
this hole-in-one donut shop. '

(Pure Eats

» Tues: 1 lam-8pm j
Wed-Sati:i.8am-i8pn't 4: '

 

iOpen.:

 
  
   

Sun: 1 1aim—i8pn:t 7

Where to Got V p
107 N. ‘Main Street;
Lexington, VA .-.g_ ‘I

fCost Rangei .:
' . $

By L.éa.h «ease
js TA If F w R

 

° THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

arts&|ife

 

Spotted: celeb looies

Whoa, is that Britney? Stars ﬁna’
Compiled ,by Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

   
  
    

Curtis corell‘1$ak    

Draco Malfoy

  Davis Turn'1kaD.rake  

their doppelgangers on campus a .

Lauren Woodie '14 T
aa Blake Lively  

7» ~

 
  

 

  

Look Who’s baaaaaaaaaaaaaok!  

Alumni of all ages, past and present, returned to campus to celebrate Homecoming Weekend and shared memories

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee is a place oftradition; however, as the motto goes, W&L_is “not unmindful ofthe future." When talking to returning alumni, the glint oftheir past days is still present in their eyes. The general
‘consensus among Generals ofall ages is W&L will always remain home to any student. past or present. Although various aspects of campus are constantly changing, the timeless tradition travels on.

 
     

Greg Stillman ‘74 relaxes in the up-
graded, newly renovated D-Hall.

Greg Stillman ‘74 on the timeless college years:
“Colleges and universities have a sense of place.
It’s like reliving your experience. Things are so
similar that it’s like I’m in a time machine.”

I974... The year the men s lacrosse team made it

to the Division 1 Final Four c/vanzpionships.

.5, _ Ir ,a vv 9-

Young alums Annie Moore ‘12 and Zoe
Yarborough ‘12 are reunited again.

Annie Moore ‘12 on advice to students: “En-
joy all of your time here as an undergraduate. I
truly believe it is the best place in the world... I
love seeing everyone. I feel like I never left, and
I love it.”

Zoe ‘Yarborough ‘12 on coming back after
graduating in May: “lt‘s surreal. W&L is my fa-
vorite place on earth. l1’s different as an alumnus
but equally as fun.” .

2012... Tl7cv1/‘ear Ille 25tli .‘l/lock Convention suc-
ces.s_'/1'//ly prec/ictecl Mitt Romne_1‘ as the Republi-
can l’res[(lentia/ nominee.

Cynthia Smith ‘02, Sally Mays ‘O2, and
Kate Blocher ‘02 are all smiles.

Cynthia Smith ‘02, Sally Mays ‘02, Kate
Blocher ‘02 on changes to campus: “Everything
is nicer and fancier, but still the same. Even though
things got an upgrade, W&L is still very similar.”

2002... The year sorority row was established.
with the completed construction of the first five
housesfor Greek women. '

1 l I
O
O
1 Hunter Brooks '1 5
aka Ron Weasley 1
O
O
- g 
Dr Marti '1 3 aka
Ashton Kutcher  
O

     

John Allgood ‘O7 unwinds in the book-
store as he peruses some literature. _

John Allgood ‘07 on favorite memories here:
“[Homecoming] was one of my favorite weekends
as a student, and I really like it as an alum. It hasn’t
changed much.”

2007... The year W&L received a $100 million 
one ofthe largest ever donations to a liberal arts col-
lege in history.

 

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

 

..sports

Kyle laeger

The discussion of baseball’s top individual
prize, Most Valuable Player, ignites into de-
bate immediately following the regular sea-
son. This year, the candidates are particularly
compelling. My pick for American.League
MVP is Miguel Cabrera and Ryan Braun for
the National League MVP.

In the AL, fans are torn between two
incredible regular season performers. On the
one hand you have Mike Trout, who turned
the Los Angeles Angels around almost single
handedly — and as a rookie no less. There is
also Detroit Tiger Miguel Cabrera, who won
the Triple Crown this season, leading the
league in batting average (.330), RBI’s (139),
and home runs (44). This achievement is un-
heard of — the last winner was Carl Yastrzem-
ski in 1967. While Mike Trout’s production
was similarly unbelievable, Miguel Cabrera
deserves the MVP. Cabrera not only out per-
formed Trout in the major statistical catego-
ries that typical measure success, but Cabrera
led his team to a playoff berth, something
Trout failed to do. Winning is a priority in the
league, and the fact that Cabrera’s team has
gone farther this season, with similar support-
ing casts, should be the ultimate tie-breaker.
Also, Trout is merely a rookie. It may be in the
league’s best interest to defer his accomplish-
ments until slightly later in his career. If Trout
is given MVP as a rookie, there is not much
he can do to top that accomplishment. Trout
will undoubtedly improve as he matures, and
the accolades he receives should reflect that.
Fundamentally, this debate comes down to
a clash of old school vs. new school think-
ing. Cabrera has led the league in the major
categories of success. Trout led the league in

 

Hailey Hartley

WAR (wins a Now that
above re- the regular
placement) season is

— a new statistic
that is supposed
to measure total

  
 
  

lll-.'..

done and play-
off teams have

performance. I
consider myself
a traditionalist
when it comes to
America’s oldest

As post season baseball begins, many wonder who
was the best during the regular season. Who was the
MVP in each of the divisions?

Kyle and Hailey give you their takes.

been set journalists
around the world
prepping their cases
for MLB Ameri-
can League and
National League

and most storied
athletic pastime, and for this reason, I am
picking Cabrera for AL MVP.

In the NL, San Francisco Giant Bust-
er Posey seems to be the popular choice. I be-
lieve that Milwaukee Brewer Ryan Braun is
getting an unfair shake because of his perfor-
mance enhancing drug scandal this past year.
Ryan won his appeal of the suspension, but the
damaging effects on his image have carried
over to this season. This season, Braun is ﬁrst
in home runs, runs scored and OPS, second

in RBI’s and hits, and third in batting average

in the NL. These statistics should be enough
for anyone to win an MVP award. However,
his tainted image will keep him from what
he deserves. No one will be rooting for last
years “PED-using former MVP”, especially
not the committee who selects MVP winners,
the Baseball Writers Association of America.
The BWAA is also in charge of selecting hall
of fame members, and the association has

shown that PED use effects their decisions.’

I believe that without preconceived notions
of Braun and his choices, Ryan Braun would
have a great shot at winning the MVP award
for the NL.

MVP’s. The Amer-
ican League seems to be down to two play-
ers, Los Angeles Angel Mike Trout and De-
troit Tiger Miguel Cabrera, and honestly if
anyone gives a ﬁrst place vote someone else
they’re either blind or stupid. It’s the rookie
sensation vs. the ﬁrst Triple Crown winner in
over 40 years. The National League could
be considered down to two as well, Milwau-
kee Brewer Ryan Braun, and San Francisco
Giant Buster Posey (Pittsburg Pirate Andrew
McCutchen can also be made an argument
for). The man who faced steroid scandal vs.
one of the best offensive catchers of all time
(coming off of a huge injury).

It’s easy to argue Cabrera deserves the AL
MVP. The Triple Crown is a huge achieve-
ment, one of the hardest things in baseball to
achieve. He’s basically ranked ﬁrst in every
major hitting category. But in all honesty,
Mike Trout deserves to receive the AL MVP
in addition to his inevitable Rookie of the
Year award. The guy was second in batting
average, ﬁrst in stolen bases, and a defen-
sive weapon. The fact that the Angels were
unable to get to the playoffs will hurt him.
I’m not sure exactly what the made up stat

K but its life. Buster Posey on the other hand

of wins above replacement means, but Trout
owns it, not even close. Basically, without
Trout, the Angels would have been an after-

thought, and not even close to a playoff con— 3

tending team. Albert Pujols deﬁnitely would
be taking more of a hit from the media. Trout
brings charisma to the team and is an offen-
sive and defensive beast. Isn’t that the deﬁ-
nition of valuable? Sure, Cabrera rocks the
crown, but Trout was irreplaceable this sea-
son. If he doesn’t win it this year, chances
are, it won’t be his only shot at the award
during his career.

The National League is a bit more com-
plicated. Ryan Braun is a heck of a player,
no denying that. But there is this little issue
that is his positive performance enhancing
drug test from last year. Yes, it was ruled that
the test was mishandled and therefore not ac-
curate, and yes, that was last season. Braun
will always be covering his tracks from it,

whether he did steroids or not, his name will ,

forever be connected to them. Yes it sucks,

has not been connected to steroids and had
a fantastic season. That random WAR stat,
yeah, he’s got it. The NI. battle average title,
he’s the ﬁrst catcher to win it in years. Not
to mention this season was a huge comeback
year for him, returning from a season ending
injury in May oflast year. While Braun may
be the better player, it seems unlikely that he
will get the National League MVP, and Posey
deserves to take the award home.

7- Double the gratification

For Buell, sharing victories is what she values most A

By Pat Mccarron
5 TA F F w R I T E R
Two weeks ago at the ITA South-
east Regional Singles Championship,
sophomore Meghan Buell fended off her
six opponents to take the crown as the
toumament’s winner. While victories in
individual athletic competitions can ap-
pear to many as a gratifying sign of ath-
letic superiority over the opponent, Buell
thinks differently.

Buell’s success did not end with
her singles championship, as she and ju-
nior Claire Cahill defeated the ﬁeld in the
toumament’s doubles competition. Such
victories are what Buell values most.

“It’s so exciting to win some-
thing so big with someone else because
we really had to work together and get
through the rough spots as a team,” said
Buell W'E HAVE TO ATTRIBUTE THE
QUOTE. “[It] makes it that much more
meaningful when we came out on top in
the end.”

This approach to tennis .is re-
ﬂective of the team’s mentality as a
whole. Although tennis is largely an in-
dividual sport, Washington and Lee’s
FIRST REFERENCE USE THE FULL

NAME women’s tennis team makes ex-l

tra efforts to insure the team is united.
Coach Erin Ness, the team’s head coach,
makes use of a simple yet effective man-
tra: be the loudest team on the court. The
constant support from the sidelines has
resulted in the team’s unbridled unity.
For Buell, this is the most distinguishing
characteristic of W&L’s women’s tennis
team.

“The most unique aspect of the
W&L women’s tennis team is the great
chemistry that our team has together,”
said Buell. “It’s hard when you are out
on the court by yourself, but I think the
closeness we have as a group helps us to
compete for one another and succeed as

a team.”

Compete for one another. It would not
be enough merely to cheer from the side-
lines. By investing themselves in their
teammate’s matches, individual victories
feel like team victories. This was the ap-
proach the team took to Indoor Nation-
als last winter, the victory Buell says she
found most gratifying because it was the
team’s ﬁrst major victory that she helped
inﬂuence.

Buell’s accolades—an ll-3 record in
singles and a 21-4 record in doubles last
year~—have certainly garnered plenty of
awards, trophies and medals. Just ex-
pect her doubles championships to have
a more special spot in her trophy case.
This Thursday the team heads to M0-
bile, Alabama to begin the ITA National
Small College Championships. W&L’s
team will be easily distinguishable from
the stands: they will be the loudest. ‘

Courtesy of Generals Sports Info

Gennies struggle

in ODAC

Field Hockey ﬁnishes week 0-2

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hock-
ey team lost a close game against East-
ern Mennonite at the W&L Turf Field to
ﬁnish off last week.

The Generals tried to ﬁght back from
a twolpoint deﬁcit but the Royals were
able to hold on for the 2-1 win. The win
breaks an Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference losing streak for Eastern Men-
nonite.

Junior defender Carol Brinkley and
junior midﬁelder Jessica Blanks scored
for Eastern Mennonite. The Generals
responded late in the second half with
a goal by sophomore forward Candice
Stefanie.

The Generals stayed aggressive on
offense and had a chance to tie the game
as time expired. The tying shot by junior
midﬁelder Alex Hensleigh missed wide
of the goal. _

The loss to Eastern Mennonite
marked the second loss of the week for
the Generals. Last Wednesday, the Gen-
erals fell 4-0 to top-ranked Lynchburg
College in a Conference matchup.

Lynchburg tallied their ﬁrst goal 12
minutes into the ﬁrst half on a W&L
own goal. Senior attack Lindsay Leon-
ard, senior midﬁelder Shelly Milks, and
sophomore attack Kelsey Link scored
the other three goals for Lynchburg.

Senior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne had
a career-high 21 saves for the Generals.
With the performance Kyne has moved
into second on the all-time saves list at
W&L with 212 career saves. She only
trails the all-time record of 248 saves
held by Courtney Harrison.

The two losses last week drop the
Generals to a 3-8 overall record and a
1-3 ODAC record. The team will face
Shenandoah on Tues., Oct. 9 at 5 p.m. on
the W&L Turf Field. On Thurs., Oct. 11
the Generals will play a nonconference
game at McDaniel at 4 p.m.

O

W&L Rushing Offense
Breezes Past E&H

Football wins big in front of alumni

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Generals took advantage of 503
total rushing yards in their homecoming
conference game against Emory & Hen-
ry on Saturday afternoon to win 45-28.

Senior running back Luke Heinsohn
scored the ﬁrst three touchdowns and
extra point attempts for W&L. Heinsohn
had 138 rushing yards on only 13 car-
ries.

Senior running back Sasha Vandalov
scored the ﬁnal touchdown of the ﬁrst
half on a 21-yard run into the endzone.
The Generals headed ' into the locker
room at halftime with a 31-7 lead after
Heinsohn completed a 27-yard ﬁeld goal
with seconds remaining on the clock.
Vandalov ﬁnished the game with 85
yards on seven carries.

After being scored against on the
opening drive of the second half, the
Generals brought the score back up to
38-13 as junior quarterback Nick Lom-
bardo threw to a 13-yard pass .to senior
tight end Eli Chester for Chester’s ﬁrst
touchdown of the season.

Senior running back Brett Murray

scored a touchdown from one yard out
with 12:15 left in the game. Murray ﬁn-
ished the contest with 59 yards on 15
carries.

Lombardo carried the ball 23 times
and ran for 164 total yards, breaking his
career high record. He also passed for 50
yards on three completed passes.

 

'4

Courtesy o Generals Sprts Info

The Generals’ defense was paced
by senior safety Jake Pelton and senior
defensive lineman Greg Barton. Pelton
ﬁnished the game with 12 tackles and
Barton had two sacks and four tackles.

The Generals play again at home on
Saturday at 1:00 pm, hosting the Yellow
Jackets of Randolph-Macon College.



 

 

 

 

s - THE nine-rum PHI -

M o N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers
310

The number of starts in a row that Americal goalkeeper
Brad Friedel had in the Premier League. The streak took
over eight years to compile, starting in May of 2004. He
was dropped by Tottenham before Sunday's game versus

Aston Villa in favor of newly signed Hugo Lloris.

33

The total number of years since the West Indies has won the
world title in cricket. They defeated Sri Lanka on Sunday to

take the World Twenty20 title, their ﬁrst since 19.79.

11

The total number of games that the Cleveland Browns have

Generals defend their territory

W&L defense keeps opponents oﬁ’ the board all week

By Hailey Hartley
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Generals men’s soccer team had two
ODAC conference games this week, beat-
ing Shenandoah 4-0 Wednesday, and tying
Lynchburg 0-0 on Saturday.

Washington and Lee dominated Shenando-
ah, scoring three goals in the ﬁrst half. From
there on out it was smooth sailing for the Gen-
erals. Senior Conor Starr had two tallies, and
junior Alex Zelinski added the third, rounding
out the Generals ﬁrst half goals. Sophomore
Nick Zaharchuk added the fourth and ﬁnal
goal in the ﬁnal minutes of the second half.
Both sophomore Ben Atnipp and fellow soph-
omore Albert Givitailese saw time in goal with
Atnipp recordi-riggtwo saves. W&L recorded
24 shots against Shenandoah in the win.

Lynchburg proved a tougher match-up for
the Generals, resulting in a defensive battle
between the two teams. The homecoming
match-up went into two overtimes before
being called a scoreless tie. W&L had just
three shots on goal, and defensive starters se-
nior Basti Richter, Starr, and ﬁrst-year Cary
Carabasi were able to keep Lynchburg to just
two of their own. The team recorded a save
defending an open net, and goalkeeper Civita-
rese recorded a lone save.

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information
The Generals keep their sights on the

ODAC championship (7-3-l Overall, 4-1-

1 ODAC), playing at Emory and Henry on

Wednesday and at home versus Randolph-
Macon on Saturday at noon.

lost in a row, dating back to last season. The streak contin-
uedon Sunday when the Browns lost to the New York Giants

41-27. The Browns are 0-5 on the season.

soapbox

“I wanted to come out here and play well.
My heart is broken, not for me. My heart is
broken for my teammates and my coaching
staff, and all these fans that have been so
great to Us this year.”

-RellrlngAllantaBravecl1lpperJorieeal'lierAllantawas
knoclredoutoftheplqyoflslnuiewlld Cardameagalnst
lhest. LoulscardInals.TheBravesloetthesln¢legame
plqyofrroundﬁ-8. From ESPN.com

“We deﬁnitely sent a message out to
the whole country. It’s not the old South
Carolina.”

-south carollna tailback Marcus latllmore after defeating
lfieUnlversllyofGeorgla35-7onSaturday.SouﬂiCarollna

Volleyball falls to CNU

Generals see hope in loss to the ﬁfth rankedteam in the nation

By Shelby Flores
STA F F w R l T E R

The Washington and Lee Volleyball team
remains optimistic about the season after fall-
ing 3-0 to ﬁfth-ranked Christopher Newport
University in Newport News, Va. last Tues-
day.

The Generals narrowly lost the ﬁrst two
games 25-19 and 25-22 alter ﬁghting back
from deﬁcits of up to nine points. In the third
game, the Captains’ dominating offensive

play ﬁnished the game 25-8. The loss drops‘

the Generals to a 14-7 overall record.

Senior middle hitter Bailey Jensen and se-
nior right side hitter Christie Fellows led the
CNU attack. Jensen led the team with 13 kills
and Fellows added 10.

Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles led the
Generals with 12 kills. First-year outside hit-
ter Anna Lausberg added ﬁve.

Junior setter Meghan Meleski and ﬁrst-
year setter Alex Kinzer split the setting duties
in the match. Meleski tallied 12 assists and
Kinzer contributed nine in a new setting rota-
tion for the Generals.

Meleski and Head Coach Bryan Snyder
were not devastated by the loss to CNU. In
fact, both think the loss inspired the team for
future matches against ranked opponents.

“It was actually very encouraging,” Me-
leski said. ‘‘It showed us that even with a dif-
ferent lineup we are able to compete with top
teams.”

ourtesy o -‘

Snyder says that Generals will continue
working in practice to achieve their goals.

“At this point, our focus is on getting bet-
ter every day, trying to win an ODAC title,
and then trying to win a National Champion-
ship,’-’ Snyder said.

The Generals return to the Warner Center
on Tuesday, Oct. 9 against Shenandoah. This
weekend the team will travel to Memphis,
Tenn. to play four non-conference matches at
the Rhodes Tournament.

wontholrlolhgamelnarowandlsa-0on1heseason.Thq
faceFlorldanextweek,anolherSECteamthatlsundefealad.
FromESPN.com

 

CONGRATULATIONS TO HAYDEN
WHITE FOR ‘FINISHING SECOND
IN THE SINGLES COMPETITION
AT THE USTA/ITA REGIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIPS LAST WEEK!

GOOD LUCK TO WOMEN'S TENNIS AS
THEY TRAVEL DOWN TO MOBILE, ALA.
T0 COMPETE IN THE ITA NATIONAL
SMALL COLLEGE CHAMPIONSHIPS. THE
CHAMPIONSHIPS START ON THURSDAY
AND LAST UNTIL SUNDAY.

ondeck

 

Cross Country

Generals streaking

Women is soccer lzasn ’t lost since Sept. 22 .

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Women’s soccer team had a busy

The Generals won their ﬁrst game of the

week, taking home three wins to bring their week, beating Roanoke in overtime 3-2 on

record to 9-2-1 (6-l-l ODAC).

 

..-L.t4.p. - ~15 ~4 » -. .~. 4: L- . ..
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Tuesday

Wed nesday

   
   

Wednesday. After a quick goal by senior Ain-

t

Thursday

sley Diagle, the Generals fell behind 2-1 at
the half. A goal by ﬁrst-year Becca Dunn in
the second half was the equalizer that brought
the Generals and Roanoke into overtime.
Diagle scored the ﬁnal goal in overtime to
secure the win. First-year Addie Healy re-
corded two saves in the contest while spend-
ing nearly 103 minutes in the net.

This weekend, the Generals hosted East-
ern Mennonite and Greensboro, shutting
them out 9-0 ‘and 4-0 respectively. Both
games were controlled almost entirely by
W&L. Katherine Rush had ﬁve goals during
the weekend, junior Alexis Blight and sopho-
more KJ Lancaster both recorded two goals.

Against EMU, junior Kingsley Schroeder
spent the full game in the net, making three
saves for the Generals. The Royals were un-
able to get a shot off in the ﬁrst half. The Gen-
erals outshot the Royals 40-3.

Healy returned to the net for the game ver-
sus Greensboro. She made four saves for the
Generals in 90 minutes of play.

With just five games left in the regular
season, W&L will travel to Shenandoah on
Wednesday before hosting St. Mary’s on Sat-
urday.

Saturday
M: Desales Inv; W: CNU

Field Hockey

vs Shenandoah 5pm

Women’s Soccer

at Shenandoah 7 pm

at McDaniel 4 pm

at St. Mary's 3:30 pm

Swimming

Men’s Soccer V atE&H7Pm V5‘-R'M3-29"‘
V 0 | | e y b a | | V5 5hen8nd0ah 7Pm Rhodes Tournament Rhodes Tournament
Football VSR-Mlpml

vs Centre 2:30 pm

 

   

I

‘I

\‘

 

27?»?
RK5?»

 
 

V. [16

no.4,

couam..a..,.   at

OPINIONS / page 3

Night L£~('ecowﬁ0lewtiaL ,
, Ever wonderwhat goes on after 11pm in
Graham-Lees on a Saturday?

A&L / page 8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

' THE RING-TUMPHI.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22,

New housing
in the works

By Hamlet Fort

STAFF WRITER _ _ .
Last year, a Residential Life Task Force

compiled a report consisting of seven recom-
mendations for the Washington and Lee Board
of Trustees regarding University residential life,
including a recommendation that would require
all third-year students to live on campus starting
sometime after 2014.

The report, composed during the 2011-2012
school year, presents statistical data, research,
and reports on peer universities’ housing models
and how they compare to W&L’s. The initiative is
intended to foster a more coherent sense of com-
munity on campus, according to Dean of Students
and Vice President of Student Affairs Sidney Ev-
ans.

The proposal is part of a long-term plan to
move more upper-division students from off-
campus housing into Lexington. The recommen-
dation includes plans for the construction of an
apartment-style complex on campus, intended to
house the entire sophomore class.

Typically, University Greek houses are ﬁlled
by sophomores, and with the new on-campus re-
quirement, juniors would ﬁll the Greek houses
along with some seniors.

The Task Force’s plans are not conﬁned only
to housing. The initiatives also involve plans for
more University dining options, including a ten-
tative proposal for a student center with a bar,
options for food and social capabilities, intended

2012

“They ’re taking away from the

1

community and the students, ’ I
said a Lexington landlord, who
rents ﬁve oﬁ’-campus houses to

‘W&L students. “This is about

control. ”

 
for upper-division students. Evans hopes students
will see the opportunities for more social events
on campus.

“Our primary obligation is to look at the stu-
dent experience,” Evans said.

The movement of hundreds of students to
campus will drastically affect the rental market in
the Lexington area and many local landlords are
opposed to the initiative.

The current income from W&L student rentals
is between four and ﬁve million dollars, accord-
ing to a local landlord. The market should expect
to lose about half of that as a result of the require-
ment, he said.

Some believe this isn’t a move intended only
for community. building, and that it is an “under-
the-radar” power-move by University administra-
tion.

“They’re taking away from the community
and the students,” said a Lexington landlord, who
rents ﬁve off-campus houses to W&L students.
“This is about control.”

Another disagreement has to do with the bene-
ﬁts ofliving on campus versus the beneﬁts ofliv-
ing away. Some, including the landlord, believe
students need to live off-campus as. part of their
development in college.

“lt’s a good thing for them to get out and to
have responsibility and have to live on their own,
and make adult decisions,” he said. The source
also said the Residential Life Task Force didn’t
include the opinions of all parties involved.

“Narrow-minded,” he said of the task force.
“No conversation at all.”

W&L Director of Housing and Greek Life
Clay Coleman fully agrees with the task force’s
ﬁndings, although he was not in the group him-
self. Coleman sees promise for the University’s
future in the recommendation.

“I think it’s a great idea,” Coleman said. “It
puts us in line with our peer institutions.”

Coleman said there needs to be more social
outlets for students on campus and in town. The
plan to build a centerzwith a pub, restaurant and
social center would bring W&L more of a sense
of normalcy compared to institutions around the
country like W&L, according to Coleman.

The Residential Life Task Force will present
their ﬁndings to President Ruscio and the W&L
Board of Trustees this fall and will expect to hear
back from the Board later this year. Of the seven
recommendations made by the Task Force, the
Board can choose to go forward with any number
of them, or none at all.

Evans, Coleman and other administrators are
conﬁdent the Board will approve the third-year
residency requirement, but ' most students and
Lexington landlords hope for the opposite. The
changes would not take place until years into the
future, but if initiated, W&L’s culture will change.

BY THE

 

 

STUDENTS

AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS

SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 6

Coleman resigns after 5 years at W&L

Clay Coleman takes on a position as Director of Student Aﬂairs at a school in Florida

Graham Colton
STAFF WRITER V

from his position as Director of Greek
and Residential Life at Washington
and Lee. Coleman is going to work
at the University of Central Florida as
the Director of Student Affairs. Dean
Sidney Evans will advise the lnterfra-
temity Council in his place.

Coleman created the Alumni
Board/Greek Life Initiative, which is
composed of Greek alumni who visit
with all of the Greek houses in person
to promote low-risk behaviors.

Efforts like these, said IFC Presi-
dent Danny Murray ’l3, have “pro-
moted student self-govemment, in-
creased transparency ‘and led to a
number of improvements for Greek
organizations.” ‘

Coleman also improved residential
life. .
“He has worked to make residen-

Clay Coeman is stepping own ‘I I

  
     

tial life a more positive and fulﬁlling
experience for Resident Advisers by
helping us update programming re-
quirements, providing more helpful
and much needed training for RAs,
and doing his best to ensure that RAs
do not become overburdened in their
responsibilities but that they are doing
the best they can for the campus,” said
Wayde Marsh ’l3, a Co-Head RA for

Upper-Division Students.

Coleman’s support was crucial to
the creation of the Green Dot Bystand-
er Initiative and, more recently, to the
Bringing in the Bystander Program.
Both endeavors were brought about to

’ combat sexual misconduct at W&L.

According to the University web-
site, the Bringing in the Bystander
Program uses a community of respon-
sibility model to teach bystanders how
to intervene safely and effectively in
cases where sexual assault may be oc-
curring or where there may be risk.

With Coleman’s support, fewer
women on campus have been victim-
ized by sexual misconduct in recent
years. In fact, a recent National Col-
lege Health Assessment survey re-
vealed that while 19.3% of women in
2010 had suffered “sexual touching
without consent,” only 14.6% of wom-
en so suffered in 2012.

Coleman will be remembered for
the sincerity of his interpersonal re-
lationships. “He has enhanced Greek
life and residential life,” said Dean Da-
vid Leonard, “by creating open, honest
and frank relationships with student
leaders.”

Students themselves remark on his
exceptional regard for others. “The
best ‘thing about working with Clay
was that he took time to get to know
RAs, on a personal level, and was gen-
uinely concerned about the students he
was working with,” said an RA.

From his time at W&L, Coleman
will most remember the deluge of help
from the campus community in re-
sponse to the ﬁre at the Pi Kappa Phi
fraternity house in 2009.

Coleman has compiled an impres-
sive resume’ in administration in higher
education.

He started at Southwestern Univer-
sity in Georgetown, Texas. Spending
four years there, he worked as the As-
sistant Director of Residence Life and
advised its Interfratemity Council.

Coleman holds a bachelor’s degree
in business from Southwestern Uni-
versity=and a master’s degree in edu-
cational administration from the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin. In addition
to working full-time at UCF, he will
begin studying in its doctoral program
in Communication Strategies.

Five years ago, Coleman began
working at W&L as the Director of
Student Activities and Greek Life.
Last year, he was promoted to Direc-
tor of Greek and Residential Life.
Coleman also served as a resource for
Conﬁdential and Impartial Resolution
(CAIR), which, according to its web-
site, provides information concerning
procedures and dispute resolution op-
tions for complaints by or against stu-
dents.

“He has worked to make residential life a more positive and fulﬁlling experience

for ‘Resident Advisers by helping us update programming requirements, providing

more helpful and much needed training for RAS, and doing his best to ensure that

RAs do not become overburdened in their responsibilities but that they are doing

the best they can for the campus. ’

I

Wayde Marsh ‘13, Co-Head RA for Upper-Division Students

NY trip puts advertising careerson the table

Students visit New York during Reading Days and see several advertising ﬁrms

By Krysta Huber

STA F F w R IT E R ,
A group of2l Washington and Lee

students traveled to New York City
over Reading Days for the annual ad-
vertising trip that is coordinated by the
Williams School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics and Politics.

According to Assistant Dean of

the Williams School Mr. John Jen- '

sen, participants visited eight different
advertising agencies and attended a
reception with W&L alumni who cur-
rently work in the advertising, public
relations and marketing industry.
Students who participated, mainly
sophomores and juniors,_were chosen

PHOTO COURTESY./‘OF SAM SWATSKI

lo
4

through an application process. Ac-
cording to Jensen, the ﬁrst 12 partici-
pants were selected based on GPA and
a committee of faculty members chose
the remaining students. The applica-
tion included a written paragraph in
which applicants had to explain why
they would beneﬁt from attending the
trip, as well as what previous experi-
ence they had, if any, that made them
qualiﬁed to attend. "

According to Jensen, the advertis-
ing ﬁrms that they visited include Ha-
vas Worldwide, MRY, Peppercomm,
Saatchi & Saatchi, TBWA, Bot-

1.;-1., .,
.\ .‘

    

 

“The trip absolutely helped me in thinking about my

career path by allowing me to understand so many

details of abusiness about which I knew very little, ’

J

said McClintock. “It was a great experience that cre-

lated an opportunity for me to learn about advertising

 

andme .-sue essful alumni in the ﬁeld. ”

 

tlerocket, Bliss and Condé Nast.

At each ﬁrm, W&L alumni gave
the students a taste of what theirjob is
like within that company.

“Each ﬁrm’s presentation consisted
of what the day-to-day activities were,
a video or series of slides displaying
the ﬁrm’s successful ads, and basics
of the business,” said sophomore Mar-
garet McClintock. “They also gave us
tips on how to land internships and the
do’s and don’ts of interviews and re-
sumes.”

Junior Callie Deddens said
that the more traditional advertising
companies like Saatchi & Saatchi,
Havas Worldwide and TBWA were
among her favorite.

“These companies were
more like what 1 expected from an ad-
vertising ﬁrm and their clients include
products that we use on a daily basis,
like Nabisco, Planter’s and Skittles,”
she said.

Sophomore Ryan Johnson added
that he also enjoyed Havas World-
wide. “While all ofthe ﬁrms had simi-
lar creative talent, Havas Worldwide
had a logical approach that treated ad-
vertising like a science,” he said.

In visiting these ﬁrms, Jensen said
the hope is that the students gained a
broader understanding of career op-
tions in the advertising industry. Mc-
Clintock said she felt the trip did ex-
actly that.

“The trip absolutely helped me in
thinking about my career path by al-
lowing me to understand so many de-
tails of a business about which I knew
very little,” said McClintock. “It was
a great experience that created an op-
portunity for me to learn about adver-
tising and meet successful alumni in
the ﬁeld.” V

The trip not only informed students
about the daily aspects of the advertis-
ing business, but it also afforded them
the opportunity to make contacts for
potential internships and jobs.

“We don’t really track the number
of students who gain jobs and intem-
ships after attending the trip to a real
degree, but the answer is that they do
because it opens up connections and it
presents them with access to alumni
who are willing to help,” said Jensen.

Jensen noted that the Williams
School saw an increased interest
among _students in comparison to last
year’s trip. He attributed the increased
demand to the Advertising and Liberal
Arts Conference held on campus last
spring.

According to wluadlibs.word-
press.com, the two-day event pro-
vided students with the opportunity to
learn about marketing, advertising and
public relations from the perspective
of W&L alumni who shared their ex-
perience and knowledge. Jensen said
that about 100 students from a variety
of majors and all class levels partici-
pated.

“There is a pent up demand that
we are seeing in the advertising ﬁeld
and we are really trying to capture that
as a part of our broader message — a
message that we are trying to send not
only to the Williams School, but to
the College, to the Journalism Depart-
ment, and to other departments around
campus,” Jensen said.

According to Jensen, the high in-
terest in marketing, advertising and
public relations positions is seen even
in students who are not studying a
related major. Johnson for example,
is a studio art and history double ma-
jor, who said he went on the trip even
though he isn’t sure that he wants to
pursue advertising as a career.

“We are really trying to make stu-
dents aware that you don’t have to be
a certain major to go into a certain pro-
fession,” said Jensen. “Once students
understand that and are comfortable.
with it, then really the sky is the limit.”

 

  

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY ‘
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

OCT 7 3 701?

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22,2012

new

A

 

Viewing Cairo in personal terms _  

W&L\student, Amira Hegazy, is studying abroad in Cairo and oﬂers her perspective on the protests in the city

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER‘.

A group of Egyptians approaches a
few young Americans on the streets of
Cairo. However, it’s not what so many
may expect ~ there is no threat in this
movement.

One ofthe Egyptians says, “We’re so
sorry for everything that’s going on right
now. Please know that those gaining the
most media attention are the minority.”

Another chimes in, “We love Ameri-
cans!”

Exchanges such as this one are not
uncommon for Amira Hegazy, a Wash-
ington and Lee sophomore currently
studying in Cairo. Before taking this
year abroad, she traveled to Egypt seven
times to see the family of her Egyptian
father.

Hegazy is planning on majoring in
Middle Eastern Studies and is currently
enrolled in the Arabic Language Inten-

sive Program. at the American Univer-
sity.

Hegazy was able to offer unique in-
sight to other W&L students about the
ongoing unrest in Cairo.

In addition to the riots over the In-
nocence of Muslims video, “There have
been protests over tuition increases at
the American University,” said Hegazy.
“While the AUC protests don’t have
anything to do with the video, I think it’s
interesting to see how ﬁred up Egyptians
are at this point in history.”

Although many Egyptians were in-
volved in the riots, she said that they
were very much a minority movement.

“Truthfully, the riots were so concen-
trated that if I wasn’t looking for them, I
didn’t have toget tangled up with them,”
said Hegazy.

Within the context of past turmoil in

Egypt, the current unrest can be consid- ‘
ered somewhat minimal, according to
Hegazy.
“Life is going on as normal; this is
just one little thing,” said Hegazy. “
“After going through the revolution,

I think this seems little to them,” said
Hegazy. “Don’t misunderstand that this
wasn’t a very offensive video when it
came out but the people who were riot-
ing were seen as extremists by a large
part of the Egyptian population.” ,

“I really felt like the media was playing up the situation

so much, ” Hegazy said. “One day when CNN was show-

ing pictures of riots in Tahrir one of my friends drove

through the area and posted a picture of Tahrir Square

running as usual with no visual disturbances whatso-

ever. ”

-Amira Hegazy, W&L sophomore studying abroad in Cairo

However, this is not the picture that

most Americans got from news sources.
Many Americans see Cairo as a city con-
stantly overcome with tumultuous pro-
tests. In reality, however, everyone close
to the riots had stopped talking about

V them about a week or two after they were

over. Yet the media doesn’t show people
this aspect.

“I really felt like the media was play-
ing up the situation so much,” Hegazy

’ said. “One day when CNN was show-

ing pictures of riots in Tahrir one of my
friends drove through the area and post-
ed a picture of Tahrir Square running as
usual with no visual disturbances what-
soever.” -

Celebrating farm mechanization

Local workers in the farming industry organized a fair to celebrate Rockbridge County is history infarming technology

By Yejean Kim

STAFF WRITER

Cyr”McCormick’s statue sits in front of the Colonnade.

 

NEIL HAGGERTY/ News Editor

 

Local workers in farming celebrated
where mechanized farming for the world
started with Cyrus Hall McCormick’s in-
vention of the mechanical reaper at the
annual Rockbridge County Farm Day on
Saturday.

The annual Rockbridge County Fall
Farm Day took place this past Saturday
at l Bares Wood Road. First organized
by Keith Holland, Leonard Cash Jr. and
Mike Flint last year, the event was “a
way to help the public learn about the
history of farming in the local area of
Rockbridge County and surrounding ar-
eas,” according to Cash.

Along with his contributions to the
farming industry, McCormick was one
of the ﬁrst people to come to the aid of
Robert E. Lee during his presidency at
Washington and Lee University, accord-
ing to wlu.edu.

McCormick served as a member of
the W&L Board of Trustees during the

last 20 years of his life and he and his
family donated generously to the school,
according to wlu.edu.

Some of the main attractions includ-
ed an iron smelting demonstration using
Rockbridge County ore, the Great Tur-
key Drive, a corn maze, exhibits of an-
tique farm equipment and various games
designed to help visitors learn more
about farming.

According to the event’s website,
the iron smelting demonstration was an
“opportunity for the general public to
see how one of the building blocks of
civilization—and modern farming—was
made for thousands of years.”

Lee Sauder, owner of Germinal Iron-
works and the blacksmith who presided
over the demonstration, is a resident
of Rockbridge County and is known
throughout the blacksmithing communi-
ty for his extensive knowledge of ancient
iron smelting techniques.

The exhibits featured antique gas en-
gines, steam engines, and tractors and
cars. Other attractions included corn
shelling and grinding, rope making, vari-
ous arts and crafts, apple butter making,
food and fresh apple cider and hayrides.

Fall Farm Day was not just a day to
enjoy the various exhibitions and dem-
onstrations. Canned food items were col-
lected all day to be donated to the local
food bank and a portion of the proceeds
from all food sold that day was set aside
to be donated to the Buena Vista Rescue
Squad.

Other supporters of the event includ-
ed Rockbridge Farmers Co-Op, Farm
Credit Services, Albert V. Carr Jr., Frank
A. Parsons, Charles A. Martin and G.
Otis Mead III.

As the sun set on Wood Road, Fall
Farm Day 2012 concluded with a called
dance featuring caller Fred Park and ﬁd-

dler James Leva.

CAREER
DEVELOPMENT
CENTER

Tuesday, October 23 at 7pm
Stackhouse Theater

Lauren Berger, CEO of |nternQueen.com,
discusses strategies for finding internships
and career opportunities

Presented b the Career Develoment Center in collaboration with Student Affairs

 

 

MON DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

A

  

 

First-year class ofﬁ

cers named  

Anna Russell Thornton, Paqui Toscano, and Jok Asiyo have been elected by their peers to lead their class

By Douglas McNiel
STA F F w R IT E R
The results of the ﬁrst-year elections
are in and Anna Russell Thornton was
elected as the ﬁrst-year Executive Com-
mittee representative, Paqui Toscano
was elected as the ﬁrst-year Student Ju-
diciary Council representative and Jok
Asiyo was elected as the first-year Class
President—the head of the First-Year
Leadership Committee.
nna Russell Thornton
Thornton says that she
is extremely honored to be
elected to the EC. She cites the honor
system as one of the major reasons she
chose Washington and Lee, and says she
wants to ensure all students experience
the atmosphere of trust and respect that

so deeply impacted her.

She said she knew that she wanted to
run for the EC while hearing the honor
speech ofthe President ofthe EC, Steele
Burrow. She -says that the speech gave
her “chills.” She hopes that she will be
ableto contribute a unique perspective
because she is the only first-year on the
EC.

When askedabout her duties as ﬁrst-
year representative, she said that she
must attend and participate in all the
meetings. She is also responsible for
opening and closing the door during the
meetings, a “cool tradition” in her own
words. Outside of the EC, Thornton is
deciding what other activities she wants

to involve herself in; however, she has
already begun volunteering at Waddell
Elementary and joined Reformed Uni-
versity Fellowship. She says that she
plans to major in English and would like
to work for Teach for America after col-
le e. '

g aqui Toscano
Toscano said he could not

be more excitediabout his elec-
tion to the SJC. He cites his passion for
justice and law as the driving force be-
hind his entrance in the election. He said
his interest and study of constitutional
law will give him the ability to judge
cases heard by the SJC.
Toscano says that he hopes to main-

tain the ideals that Robert E. Lee put
in place during his tenure at W&L. He
would like to study either English or
Politics and eventually go to law school.
His dream is to become a federal judge,
but he also said that he is interested in
becoming active in many other activi-

ties. _
ok Asiyo
Asiyo was the candidate
elected to be the first-year Class
President. His new position will involve
heading the FYLC and planning activi-
ties for first-year students. His main pri-
ority is to ensure that every ﬁrst-year has
the best experience possible.
Asiyo said he knew he wanted to run

for the position right after he learned
about it. He wanted to make sure that all
members of the W&L community would
feel the welcoming feeling that he felt
during his ﬁrst weeks on campus. He be-
lieves that this position will be a good
starting off point for leadership roles,
and is deﬁnitely interested in further
leadership roles.

Besides being first-year Class Presi-
dent, Asiyo is also on the varsity bas-
ketball team and he hopes to major in
Business Administration and possibly
Computer Science.

    
  
 
 
 
      
  

  

Hall.

The Washington and Lee Journalism Department added a
new feature to their front hall. Members of the W&L commu-
nity can now see The First Amendment when they enter Reid

J

 

NEIL HAGGERTY/ News Editor

"Congress sﬁallmake no law respecting an estalilisﬁment 0]‘
religion, 01’p1’0/ii5iting tﬁe free exercise t/iereof; or aliriafging
t/ie freedom qfspeec/i, or of tﬁe press; or tﬁe rigﬁt of tﬁe peopﬂa
peaceaoly to assem6[e, and to petition t/ie government fora

redress qfgrieuances. ”

~Tﬁe Tirst flmencfment

U

.‘;)rﬁﬂ1e‘righ!o" l i

I!i"'- .‘~  ‘xiii -i'~'I« ' i 1.1‘. . ”’ O ‘

Romney puts spotlghtonLX t

, ’ Mitt Romney stops at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington to discuss foreign policy to students

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 2%.; ~.,,,_

 

Republican Presidential Nominee
Mitt Romney visited Virginia Military

t Institute on Oct. 8. While at VMI, the

Presidential hopeful made a speech to
500 cadets, focused around foreign pol-
icy.

The main message of the campaign
stop was that America must change the
way it is doing things in the Middle East.

“America has a proud history of
strong, conﬁdent, principled global lead-
ership,” said Romney. “A history that has

" been written by patriots of both parties.”

While trying to appeal to VMI cadets
and local supporters through the patri-
otic theme to his speech, Romney also
threw some jabs at President Obama.

‘‘I know the President hopes for a

 ’ safer, freer, and a more prosperous Mid-

dle East allied with the United States,”
said Romney. “I share this hope. But
hope is not a strategy.”

He followed this statement up with
his own plans for the Middle East. His
main solution to the issues in the Mid-
dle East is to “make the critical defense

~a

investments that we need to remain se-
cure.”

Washington and Lee sophomore Ol-
ivia Dickey attended the speech; she
has been working for the Virginia GOP
and has recently been registering W&L
students as well as VMI cadets. Dickey

was able to attend the speech because 7

she volunteered to work the door for the
campaign. When asked about the content
ofthe speech, Olivia said, “His thoughts
on international relations were certainly
interesting.”

Dickey was one of a select few Wash-
ington and Lee students to be able to see
the speech.‘ The speech put Lex-
ington on the national spotlight for a
short period following the past few
Presidential debates. Both Presidential
nominees have one more debate remain-
ing today, at Lynn University in Boca
Raton, Fla.'

The nominees’ performances at this

last debate may very well decide the out- >

come ofthe election on Nov. 6.

 

  

  

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22,2012

opinions

 

NATOat war: Not a big deal?  

Should we be more Concerned as Turkey goes careenirzg towards war with Syria?

By Yates Wilburn
s TA F F w R I T E R

Over the past several weeks, Tur-
key has come under ﬁre from numerous
mortar attacks originating from across
the Syrian border. As a result, dozens of
Turkish citizens have been killed along
with several Inore dozens of Syrian citi-
zens in retaliation by Turkish artillery
ﬁre. A rapid escalation of hostilities has
created a state of near-war between Syr-
ia and Turkey, with Turkish prime minis-
ter Recep Tayyip Erdogan claiming that
his nation is “ready for war,” however
unwilling. This is by no measure insig-
niﬁcant. Given its integral membership
in NATO, Turkey stands to drag NATO
into a military engagement in Syria
should hostilities between Turkey and
Syriajump to more consistent and dain-
aging levels. On the whole, American
media has been relatively silent on this
particular issue, and I have seen almost
no discussion on this speciﬁc possibility.
This goes without mentioning both pres-
idential candidates’ near silence, which I
ﬁnd even Inore horriﬁc.

Honestly, no one could blame Turkey
for going to war. Given the incredible
amount of refugees that have fled to Tur-

key to escape the death . ‘d destruction
Bashir Al-Assad has bI‘oI:'_'bt upon his
citizens, Turkey has exercised incred-
ible restraint in this matter. The refugees
that have already entered. Turkey~over
l00,000 at last count—are placing an
incredible amount of stress on Turkey’s
economy and government as it struggles
to feed, house, and protect them. As a
result of this strain, the Turkish people
living in towns absorbing the refugees
have grown increasingly frustrated as
their local resources are spread thin and
refugees attempt to assimilate.

The possibility of Turkey dragging
NATO into the Syrian Civil War with it
is not an impossible scenario. The other
NATO members would have very little
choice in the matter if Turkey decided
to invade Syria in force in an attempt to
bring the conflict to some sort of con-
clusion. Article 5 of the NATO Charter
stipulates that the organization can clas-
sify any attack on one member state as
an attack on all, as it did with the 9/ll
attacks. This Article could be invoked in

a similar manner to bring the full weight '

ofNATO down upon Syria in defense of

Turkey. This may not be necessary how-
ever, as Secretary General ofNATO An-
ders Fogh Rasmussen has already stated
that “all necessary plans [are] in place to
defend Turkey if necessary.”

Despite the incredible implications
of this situation, the American media
and especially Governor Mitt Romney
and President” Barack Obama have had
almost nothing substantial to say about
it. The general topic ofthe Syrian Civil
War has come up occasionally at rallies
and the debates as a convenient attack
point for Romney to hit Obama with,
but it has amounted to little Inore than a
vague criticism with little to no response
from the Obama campaign. The fact that
the entirety of NATO stands to be en-
gaged in Syria doesn’t seem to warrant
any signiﬁcant speculation or analysis
from anyone, which I ﬁnd very disturb-
mg.
I don’t know ifthe relative silence on
this issue is a worse reflection on Ameri-
can news media, the presidential can-
didates themselves, or on the American
voter that doesn’t seem interested in the
situation enough to ask questions.

  

Albania
Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
9 Estonia
France
. ‘ Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Italy

NATO: Member Nations

   

I Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal '
Romania
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain ‘.
Turkey
United Kingdom
United States

      
         
     
       
       
       
 

 
 
 

Potato farmers and politicians: minorities in

Why the term minority is a relative term we need to move past as a country

By Julianna Satterly ‘
EDITOR IN CHIEF

I am a Polish American.

Did that sound weird to you? That’s
because we don’t identify ourselves by
origin in America, the supposed cultural
melting pot. Unless ofcourse, you iden-
tify as a “minority.”

Here’s the thing though, “minor-
ity” is a bit of a skewed term. Reality
check: 3.2% of American people claim
a Polish descent, whereasjust two ofthe
country’s identiﬁed “minority” groups,
African American and Hispanic, com-
prise almost a third ofthe total American
population (l2.6% African American,
16.7% Hispanic). Who is really a minor-
ity here‘?

Alright, so you may say that minor-
ity doesn’t really mean demographic. It

‘ means a socio-economic or educational

minority. Fair point. Did you know that
in the early 1900s the highestjob a Pol-
ish American could get was working in a
factory or the equivalent thereof? Why?
There were two reasons: one, because
many Polish Americans never even ﬁn-
ished high school, and two, because be-
ing Polish made one the target of intense
ethnic discrimination. Sounds a lot like
a classic “minority”. The thing is, ethnic
discrimination is like a hazing ritual in
the annals of American history. Almost
every ethnicity has dealt with some pret-

WASI ll\'GTO.\' N) IIEE U.\'lVER§lTY

THE RING-

TUM PHI.

Non-
resident
alien, 3%

R White nan-
Hispanic,

 

ENROLLMENT BY RACE/
ETHNICITY AT W.&L

 

  

Black nL':-n- Asian or
Hispariic, 5'.a-:2. Pacific
“~:.;\--..____ Isl;In_r.Ier, 1%

."

 llispariic. 1%

     

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT:

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

IULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
JANEY FUGATE
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE IAEGER
RANDY KARLSON

ty hellacious discrimination during their
time. '

I think afﬁrmative action is good
for exactly two things-—truly helping
deserving people while simultaneously
driving an ever-increasing wedge be-
tween the ethnic groups. What “actu-
ally would help is everyone becoming
an American plain and simple, without
the superﬂuous qualiﬁer in front. Which
leads me to my point in writing this:
there is a new, ludicrous education bill in
Florida which lends my theory a certain

amount ofsupport. The Florida Board of
Education just passed a bill stating that
different goals of achievement in writ-
ing, reading and malliematics. have been
set for each race (go to wwwnytimes.
com for the whole article).‘ I support the
‘motive behind bringing disadvantaged
students up to par. but really‘? Take, for
example, their goals for reading compre-
hension: by 2018 Florida hopes to have
“72 percent of low-income children, 74
percent of black students, 8| percent of
llispanics. 88 percent of white students

tter to the editor

YEIEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
LISA STOISER
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

JILLIAN KATTERHAGEN
DAVID THOMAS

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

It is'the.misslon of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for

students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that

prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING-TUIVI PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Thankfully for Republicans, Barack
Obama is running. Unfortunately, he is
not running on his record. Rather he is
doing exactly what many Washington
insid . o, demonize speciﬁc policy ap-
proaches and plans by prominent Repub-
licans and Mitt Romney. The President’s
administration has done three things in
regards to immigration

l. He has increased border patrol
agents, a positive both parties can agree
on.

2. His administration authorized the
Fast and Furious gun running program
which has led to a good number of guns

being left in the hands of criminals and has
contributed to the death of a border patrol
agent

3. He used his executive authority to
implement a temporary version of his
DREAM Act.

What he hasn’t done is work towards
a lasting and sound solution to our illegal
immigration problem. Democrats are noto-
rious for using the Hispanic vote by prom-
ising high and lofty goals while scaring
Latinos with the evil, xenophobic Repub-
lican plans. The President’s actions are no
different. Under a President Romney how-
ever, Hispanic and other immigrants will

America

and 90 percent of Asians” reading at
grade level. Does that mean Asians have
more of a chance at success than low-in-
coine children? Are black students con-
sidered less capable? Do Hispanics natu-
rally have a lower level of intelligence?
The measures intended to decrease the
ethnic gap are only dragging race into
the spotlight. Again.

These divisions that America makes
all the time in a feeble attempt to help
just cause larger problems in the long
run. Honestly, it seems blatantly patron-
izing to assume that certain ethnicities
need more help than others anyway.
And when those ethnicities keep taking
help, it just promotes the cycle. There
are many success stories and under-
achievers in every ethnicity. It seems
backward, but the very idea of afﬁrma-
tive action promotes ethnic division in a
country that sells a dream of the layman
making his way here despite his origins.

I’m not saying that America’s at-
tempts to rectify racial relations weren’t
honorable. I’m just saying that we took
it too far. All you really get handed to
you for being Polish in America is an in-
grained love of kielbasa and the inability
to spell your family name. And yet we
quietly rose from being under-educated
potato farmers to complete ethnic equal-
ity. On our own. Your move, “minori-
ties”.

not be used as voting pawns. Mitt Romney
knows that part of getting America work-
ing again is by taking full advantage ofthe
drive and enthusiasm of oIIr newest resi-
dents. That  why Mitt Romney will work
to increase legal immigration. to make sure
we have the best workers possible for our
soon to be thriving economy. Mitt‘s first
priority is the ﬁrst priority of all Ameri-
cans, jobs. His approach to immigration
will be no different. Barack Obama”s how-
ever? We will have to wait for the next
election to see.
Sincerely,
David Thomas ‘ I 5

 

 Q

ABLE LEGAL REPRESENTATION

RELIABLE AND AFFORD
 RECKLESS DRIVING

 

SHEILAMOHEB@MOHEB

SPEEDING
DUIS

OOOOO

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS
CAR ACCIDENTS
o CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS

LEGAL.coIvI - (540) 520-7355

 

  

  

M 0ND,AY, OCTOBER 22,2012

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

n

  pinions  

Benghazi and the debates: Hit by a smooth criminal

Analyzing the unsaia’ subtext and the true importance of the Libya question in the Presidential debates

By JP Beall

* OPINIONS EDITOR

Everyone has been talking about the

performance in last week’s presiden-
tial debate at Hofstra University last
Wednesday. Besides Romney’s “bind-
ers full of women” comment that made
the monastic Facebook meinosphere so
giddy in the ﬁngertips, the most notable
point of contention was over a question
about the Benghazi attacks.
' Obama supporters have been roaring
with approval at the reprimand sound
bite handed down from the moderator
to Romney on national television. Bar-
ring entirely that she_ effectively spelled
out how both candidates were right, a
“gimme” question for Romney managed
to become short-term political capital for
Obama.

Far more underpublicized, and coinci-
dentally far more important, than Candy
Crowley dipping her ﬁngers in Rom-
ney’s “cake batter” was how the actual
question was asked, and how Obama
answered.

The question came from a Kerry Lad-
ka, and is included below as seen in/an
NPR transcript of the debate available
online:

“This question actually comes from a
brain trust of my friends at Global Tele-
com Supply. in Mineola yesterday. We
were sitting around talking about Libya,
and we were reading and became aware
of reports that the State Department re-
fused extra security for our embassy in

Benghazi, Libya, prior to the attacks that
killed four Americans. Who was it that
denied enhanced security and why?”
This question was in the context of
several things that happened immedi-
ately before the debate. First, all major
newspapers had just announced that the
State Department recanted its oﬂicial

 

story of the Benghazi attacks, and Hil-
ary Clinton had stepped forward to take
responsibility for the crisis where four
Americans, including the ‘ ambassador,
were martyred for their country.‘

These events took place because State
Department documents came forward
showing that the late Ambassador Ste-
phens had predicted the embassy would
be attacked on 9/ll nearly a month
ahead of the fact. He noted that intel-
ligence said a terrorist plot was being

hatched because it was becoming well
known the embassy was lightly guarded.
His request for marine guard and to be-
gin removing no_n-combatants from the
embassy was buried.

Bearing all this in mind, the question is
quite simple. Who denied our embassy
security, and why? His question was
never really answered, but the answer
provided is telling.

If Obama’s story about Secretary of
State Clinton accepting full responsibil-
ity meant a lick, he would have stuck
with it. It would be easy enough to leave
it at that and move on to an easier ques-

' tron.

But he didn’t.

He began, “these aren’t just represen-
tatives of the United States; they’re my
representatives. I Send them there, of-
tentimes into harm’s way. lknow these
folks, and I know their families. So no-
body’s more concerned about their safe-
ty and security than I am.”

So then, why was the attack allowed
to happen if his administration had prior
warning from his appointee, who has
a family back here in the US he would
have liked to see again? This sounds
more like a carefully worded admission
of guilt rather than an argument for in-
nocence. '

He continued, “So as soon as we found
out that the Benghazi consulate was be-
ing overrun, I was on the phone with my

national security team, and I gave them
three instructions. Number one, beef up
our- security and — and — and proce-
dures not just in Libya but every embas-
sy and consulate in- the region. Number
two, investigate exactly what happened,
regardless of where the facts lead us, to
make sure that folks are held account-
able and it doesn’t happen again.”

This was an attempt to sidestep the
question. His administration was ill pre-
pared for the attack, so he would show
how he reacted. What followed was ad-
mirable interventional foreign policy for
the man who urged the country to adopt
preventative healthcare legislation. I

“Number 2” is a nice glittering gener-
ality, a nod to a campaign plank of trans-
parency. Take another look at the quote.
There are no identifying speciﬁcs. Any-
where. Oddly enough, he still has not
given the audience the story of what ex-
actly happened in Libya. He never men-
tioned if anyone was held accountable,‘
or who should be. Items like these are
good political capital. It can only help
ease blame and remove this particular

~ horse fly from his campaign ointment.

If he had everything to gain from shar-
ing some kind of speciﬁcs with America,
why“ didn’t he? Perhaps the timer was
running low?

Immediately after, he remarked, “Gov-
emor Romney had a very different re-
sponse. While we were still dealing with

our diplomatsbeing threatened, Gover-
nor Romney put out a press release try-
ing to make political points. And that’s
not how a commander in chief operates.
You don’t turn national security into a
political issue, certainly not right when
it’s happening.”

Part of me applauds Obama for say-
ing that national security is not an issue
for politics. This argument might have
worked too, only that Obama is still tak-
ing credit for killing Osama bin Laden,
all the while never crediting the Navy
Seals who actually killed him. As a mat-
ter of fact, he did so again in the very
next paragraph of his response.

Let me get this straight, Obama will
take political credit for foreign policy
successes, and deny any credit for for-
eign policy disasters?

Nearly a month and a half after a na-
tional calamity abroad where four Amer-
ican non-combatants died apparently
needlessly because they were citizens
and servants of this country, and this

> country still does not have the answers.

What’s more, Obama’s attempts at quiet-
ing the furor do not add up logically. Ev-
eryone, this is a point to keep watch on,
because if Romney wakes up and ﬁgures
out what fell into his lap that night, this
is a point that could changethe game.

Between Missouri’s Republican Sen-
ate candidate Todd Akin’s inflamma-
tory remark that abortion is permissi-
ble in cases of ‘‘.legitimate rape” and a
Democratic Natiiorial Convention that
hid President Obama’s \voeful han-
dling ofthe economy behind countless
flashy speeches applauding the pr ‘
dent’s blind support for unrestricted
abortions, the question of abortion has
undoubtedly become a hot-button is-
sue ofthe 20l2 election. Mitt Romney
has provided us with a refreshing and
principled stance on this key issue.
separating himself not only from Akin
and the President. but from the GOP
platform. The GOP adopted a plank
that states that an “unborn child has

a fundamental individual right to life
that cannot be infringed," a plank in-
compatible with the notion of excep-
tions for pregnancies resulting from
rape or incest.

The Romney campaign was quick
to distinguish between the GOP plat-
form and Mr. Romney’s view by not-
ing one slight difference between the
two. Promoting a slightly more mod-
erate position. Mr. Romney is solidly
pro-life. believing that life begins at
conception and that "/\mericans have

a moral duty to uphold the sanctity of

life" while also supporting exceptions
and a woman’s right to choose in the
case of rape or incest.

That aside. Mr. Romney’s view on

largely matches that of his
part, He denounces the Roe v. Wade
decision and believes that its over-
turn will liberate the issue from the
hands of Linelected judges and place
it in those of the American people.
He believes that this will enable the
states to determine their own abortion
laws and trusts the democratic process
to implement the measures that the
American people choose. Mr. Roini i
also intends to end federal funding r
institutions that advocate for abortion,
protect the right of doctors to let their
conscience guide their work. nominate

judges who will not submit to blatant
judicial activism and personal opinion

while on the court, and promote the

protection of life not just in America.
but beyond our borders as well.

Mr. Romney’s reasonable and prin-
cipled stance on abortion only seems
more so when compared to that of
President Obama and the Democratic
Party. The Democratic platform op-
poses all restrictions on abortions
and fully supports Roe v. Wade and
a woman‘s right to ehoose~regai'd—
less of if she can afford an abortion
or not. President Obama even goes so
far as to call the right to an abortion
“one of the most fundamental rights
we possess." As such, the choice is
not between a pro-life or pro-choice
candidate. Mr. Romney‘s view rightly
allows the inal decision on abortion to

Reps

By Jillian Katterhagen
GUEST WRITER
fall to the states, so that the democratic
process will empower the American
people to choose for themselves how
to handle abortion. President ()bama‘s
unequivo ‘al support for Roe v. Wade
suggests that he considers the matter
removed from the hands of Ameri-
cans. The choice. then. is whether or
not we want to decide for ourselves
how to handle 21b0I‘Il0l1, and really,
this isn‘t much of a choice at all. Mr.
Romney‘s abortion platform not oi y
protects countless unborn children
from being killed. it reveals his faith
in the American people and our demo-
cratic system to choose for ourselves
how we want our lives to be governed.
The choice is clear.

8

0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

arts&|ife

 

Pronto Caffe Gelateria might be the best
thing to arrive in Lexington since better cell
phone service. The gelato cafe is the new
project for The Livery Restaurant owners
Fi‘ancesco and Meridith Benincasa, and sits
across from the Southern Inn on Main Street.
By bringing the very best in ﬂavor and char-

_ acter to the classic Italian treat, ice cream

shops in Lexington might have some trouble
keeping up with this hit. _

The interior design for Pronto is fresh and
clean, combining metal tablesland gleaming
trashcans with twine-like chairs and a clas-

sic chalkboard menu. The shiny lighting and -

equipment behind the counter is an impres-
sive sight, and could easily challenge any
Starbucks toacoffee-brewing battle. . _ ‘
Small but mighty, the menu offers sea-
sonal treats like a “Fall Caprese
Sandwich,“ and the

classic choices of

biscotti, cookies,

and croissants

togcreate a

plethora of

Tahe aB|TEOutcf£eX.

meal and snack options. The coffee beans
are all imported directly from Italy, and offer
an extremely rich, authentic taste for coffee
lovers. For those who are not coffee addicts

(like myself), the chai latte is withouta doubt ,

the best combination of cream and smooth
chai flavor in Lexington.

The gelato is served in classic Italian style,
artfully scooped into’ small colorful bowls
and dripping over thevsides. The ﬂavors are
plenti_ful, ranging from classic vanilla to

‘ salted peanut and peach. Gelato, unlike ice

cream, is made with whole and‘ skim milk
rather than cream, and this allows the ﬂavors
to truly impress the taste buds. Chocolate
tastes more chocolate-y and richer, while
the kiwi and strawberry ﬂavors are fresh
andrfruity, but still light and refreshing. I can
close my eyes and'see the strawberry ﬁelds
from which the gelato began.

The gelato ﬂavors are seasonal, and the
ocean waves-like presentation is enough to
make anyone order too much. The young
adults who workat Pronto seem genuinely
interested in theirjobs (or at least in the pros-

pect of free gelato) and provide wonderful
service.

Pronto, despite its high-class style, main-
tains low prices. Gelato prices (based on cup
size) range li'om around three to ﬁve dollars,
while the sandwiches are never more than
seven. The coffee and drink prices take the
cake, with'a single cup being $1.85 and the
small Chai latte costing only $3.50. I

In this small town, I've been waiting for a
cafe to arrive that refreshes my taste buds and
my mind. Ilere, the music isjust loud enough
and the Wi-Fi strong and uncomplicated. So
Generals. whether you need a place for your
family to meet your new signiﬁcant other
this Parents’ Weekend, or you are suffering
from an unmanageable chocolate addiction.

‘ Pronto is the place to go to solve your prob-

lems. At least until all the gelato is gone.

  

Whose cuisine reigns supreme?

PAA CE br0ught“Ir0n Chef” to campus this Saturday, as students teamed up and competed to serve the best Asian dish

By Caroline Hamp
STA F F w R I T : R
The Pan-Asian Association for Cul-

tural Exchange (PAACE) does exactly
what its name says: it exchanges cultural
knowledge within the Washington and
Lee campus. Speciﬁcally, this student
organization focuses on Asian heritage.
They host a slew of events aimed at
spreading the appreciation and aware-
ness of Asian culture. From bringing
in an educational speaker for an engag-
ing lecture, to celebrating the Chinese
New Year with a traditional feast, or
just hanging out with people of differ-
ent backgrounds and learning about
their lifestyles, PAACE brings students
together (often with the help of food).
One of the most popular of these diver-

After a tasty feast of all the competition dishes, sophomores Han-

sifying eventsjust so happens to be their
very own version of Iron Cheﬂ

Here are the basics: five teams, one
dish per team, three judges, and lots of
competition. Although the television
show has a cooking time limit, this past
Saturday’s competition started early in
the afternoon so participants could ad-
equately prepare for dinner. And thank
goodness there were no time restric-
tions: most Asian dishes take a lot of
time, skill, and precision.

The judges didn’t mess around. Pro-
fessor l-longchu Fu, Department Head
of East Asian Languages and Litera-
ture, strived to understand the origins of
each dish. and was particularly keen on

nah Paulk, Monette Veral, and Emily Atsuko smile for the camera.

 

learning which area of the world each
dish came from. (Sophomore Adrian
Xu, who used a recipe straight from
his mother’s cookbook, threw Profes-
sor Pu quite a curveball). At the same
time, International Student Advisor and
Associate Director Mrs. Amy Richwine
focused on the aroma of each dish and
often commented on the varying spices.
Professor David Bello, Associate Pro-
fessor of History and Director of East
Asian Studies, gave each dish an award,
such as Best Appearance for the bright-
ly-colored mixed rice dish.

The dishes ranged from the spicy

Korean mixed rice to the Chinese sweet-
and-sour pork ribs. Senior Joseph Til-
ghman, a lone ranger after his partner
dropped out, was single-handedly try-
ing to win with a vegetarian dish. My
personal favorite was the Korean pan-
cakes, a savory version ﬁlled with veg-
etables and shrimp. Apparently though,
thejudges didn’t completely agree with
me. The winner went to an equally
deserving, deliciously sweet dessert
dish (of course... who doesn’t love
dessert?). Juniors Ginny Huang and
Christy Haiying Cui made double-layer
steamed milk with honey and bananas,
a popular Chinese treat. Their prize:
free Sweet Things Ice Cream!

“I’m glad they won,” commented
sophomore Cathy Wang. “That dessert
is tough to make... it takes a lot oftime
and skill. I was impressed!”

Sound like fun to you? PAACE
continues to teach W&L students about
Asian culture in creative ways. Keep
your eyes peeled for more upcoming
events, or ask secretary sophomore
Christine Jung to receive the informa-
tional PAACE emails.

ophomores Heeju, Jang, Marissa Gilbert, and Thao M long

show off their latest homemade, deliciouscreation.

   

'“-42__.

\2f q9_ngengn.sense

The man sued.... and won.

A North
Carolina man,
having purchased
a case of very rare and

expensive cigars, insured them

against ﬁre among other things. Within

a month, having smoked his entire stockpile of
cigars and without having made even his ﬁrst policy

payment, the man ﬁled a claim against the insurance

company. In his claim, he stated the cigars were lost ”in a
series of small ﬁres.”The insurance company refused to pay,

citing the obvious reason that the man had consumed the cigars in the normal fashion.

In delivering the ruling, thejudge agreed thatthe claim was frivolous, but stated
nevertheless that the man held a policy from the company in which it had warrantedtthat
the cigars were insurable and also guaranteed that it would insure against ﬁre, without

” deﬁning, what it considered to be ’’unacceptable ﬁre,”and was obligated to pay the claim.
Rather than endure a lengthy and costly appeal process, the insurance company accepted
the ruling and paid the man $15,000 for the cigars he lost in the "ﬁres.”

After the man cashed the check, however, the company had him arrested on 24
counts of arson. With his own insurance claim and testimony from the previous case used
against him_, the man was convicted of intentionally burning his own insured property
and sentenced to 24 months in jail and a $24,000 ﬁne.

SSA: revealed

A sneak peek at the apcoming conference events

By Lisa Stoiser
STAFF WRITER

Maybe you’ve run into them by the
Commons. or maybe you’ve tripped over

them in the Quad. Maybe you’re like’

Leah Gose ’l5, and you’ve turned them
into the objects of an open-ended scaven-
ger hunt. Said Gose: “I think they’re up-
side down, but I love ﬁnding them every
day. lt’s a game that I can’t lose.”

So, what are these big blue blocks that
spell out “S-S-A” all over campus?

Upon further investigation, we’ve
found that they are actually just big,
painted—blue, blocks. Hollow plywood
constructions held together with nails. ‘

But, these SSA blocks represent
something more — they are the ofﬁcial
icon of W&L’s 5th Science, Society, and
the Arts conference (SSA).

SSA is a biennial weekend extrava-
ganza in all areas of academia coming
to campus in March. In true celebration
of the liberal arts, everyone, regardless
of political affiliation, poetical prefer-
ences, or major(s) of study, is invited to
participate. After all, what isn’t a part of
science, society, or arts?

Its easy to get involved. Students
can participate in a book colloquia, pres-
ent their own work, or simply attend the
meeting. Classes are conveniently sus-
pended on Friday of the convention, and
everyone who attends gets a free t-shirt, a
lot of knowledge, and some food. Here’s
how tojoin the SSA:

Book Colloquia - 21 book Colloquia
will be held in two separate sessions on
Friday, March 8th. If you sign up online
(ssa.wIu.edu) by November 30, 2012, the
SSA team will send you a free book that
you’-ll get to discuss for about an hour

with ll other participants. Never had
the nerve to buy 50 Shades of Grey for
yourself? Join discussion leader Cynthia
Lam ’l5 in the morning session and get
the book sent to you for free. Don’t be-
lieve everything your history professor
has to say? Aubri Chamigo ‘l3 will be
leading a discussion on Loewen’s Lies
My Teacher Told Me: Everything Your
American History Textbook Got Wrong.

Project Presentations - Have a paper
you’re really proud of? Working on the
masterpict =. composition of your college
career? Then you’re encouraged to sub-
mit your V\u.- °or presentation at SSA5.
The opportunity looks great on a resume,
and almost anything goes... as long as
your work shows some effort and inter-
ests you, it’s appropriate SSA5 material!
Co-authored works and works that are
“almost-there” (but still in-progress) are
welcome as well. The submission dead-
line for project proposals is January 25th,
2013, but no harm comes from submit-
ting early. I

The Meeting - The ofﬁcial meeting
kicks off on Thursday night with posters
and performances, presented and per-
formed by your fellow students. Friday
is ﬁlled with the book colloquia, more
presentations, and a luncheon keynote
speaker. This meeting’s speaker is Dr.
Richard Alley, who will be presenting
on climate problems and potential so-

lutions. He’s a co-recipient of the 2007 ‘

Nobel Peace Prize and is supposed to be
funny, too. Those who register in Febru-
ary will get a free lunch to go along with
the lecture.

 

  

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&life  

. Carr talksjournalism

rr discusses the future of print

Q.

, Student spotlight: Raya Taylor ‘14

Meet the stage manager of the upcoming show “Bye, Bye Birdie, ” playing this week.’

Award—winning reporter David

By Janey Fugate-
STAFF WR ITER

Culture and media columnist for the

New York Times, reporter David Carr
spoke at Lee Chapel Friday night.

“Where are the bones of Robert E.
Lee?” asked Carr. “That makes two
overworked, decimated people in this
college.”

Carr had just finished working on
uncovering the story of how one of the
Times’ chief competitors, the 80-year-
old magazine Newsweek, is ceasing to
publish in print. The company recently
announced that Newsweek will be ac-
cessible only through online subscrip-
tion beginning next year.

“You’re surrounded by invisible gas
and all of a sudden one of the canaries
falls over,” said Carr, describing the
gravity of the news.

However, Newsweek is just one of
many news aggregates and print sources
to go digital or out of business. Carr cit-
ed other examples such as New Orleans,
which no longer has a daily newspaper,
the trend that virtually every media com-
pany has lower frequencies of print, and

By Mariel Pearl
STAFF WRITER

the fact that numerous magazines have
gone out of business, including Men’s
Vogue, Gourmet, and Vibe. ’

The fade of print media produces
nostalgia in many. But despite the un-
settling loss that Newsweek’s transition
portends for the industry, Carr offered
aspiring journalists hope for a future in
an ever-evolving industry.

“Do not confuse the loss of the arti-
fact,” he said, holding up his print copy
of his speech, “with the loss of the cul-
ture of fact.” .

The New York Times’ business
model has gone from tossing rolled-up
papers into people’s yards to sending
out new content via Twitter every 4 sec-
onds. Its stock is up 40% and 530,000
subscribers online. In other words, news
is not going away any time soon.

Carr also dispelled the pervasive
mentality that the younger generation is
only concerned with Facebook, saying
that over 70 million people watched the
first Presidential debate in real time.

But one of the challenges Carr eit-

,a_ as

ed was being spread thin between so

many forms of media. The lines be-

tween radio. TV. print. and web are 2

being blurred. Every news site is com-
peting for the same sets of eyes. and

journalists are now required to jump '

niinbly from posts, to tweets, and back
to traditional articles, in order to stay
competitive.

“It is eatingime alive,” said Carr. He
held up his iPhone and said, “This is
a leash."

However, at the same time these
new forins of communication tech-
nology have expanded the journalists‘

toolbox, making this “the golden age

of media,” as Carr sees it.
Journalism is adapting, growing,

and morphing to meet the demands of

this era of new technology, making it
both an exhilarating and exasperating
industry to be in. But, as Carr put it,
“Revolution is not the Armageddon."

 #what'snew°ncamvus

‘‘I’m not sure exactly what happened last night, but I’m

pretty sure I had fun” #yolo

‘V’ 31lv",4“ "i7t‘l‘i

W&L was ranked #1 over Yale on some list. So, just be
prepared for every alumni you know to reblog, post, and
shout that from the rooftops.

ii t‘i".X’* '3/w‘lI~§:}.'.’

A W&L worthy Wednesday night pregame.

in i I ',.,.,~

White—ou thefootbll game Saturday! Original theme
was blarskout but coaches and players decided there’d be
enough of that on Friday night

 w~;.r—:.»«;

The cops e aly chll ere. #sh**noonesays #TWLM

"".l‘heHeo—-o i pn util 2:30 now... drunk grilled cheese

errday” #coop

A standard W&L classroom looks exactly like an
elementary school lunchroom: boys on one side, girls on
the other. #TWLM

 not-.~ at ;'.,:ri~,a\t'. i'_t.i~w

Name: Raya Taylor ‘14
Hometown: Goldsboro, NC
Ma1or/_ Minor: Global Politics/ Theatre_ _
BA€tl|\3IIl‘I_ZIeS on campus: “Bye, Bye Birdie," Pi
e a I

What is your role in “Bye, Bye Birdie”?
Stage Manager.

What has been your favorite part of the
rehearsals?

My favorite part is seem the actors bond with
each other over a projec we're all working to-
gether to create.

. What has been your favorite class at W&L?

’ Probably “Swords of Shakespeare.” With “Ballet”
as a close second.

Favorite W&L tradition and why?

Dressing up for football games — it's the reason
it cgme to the school. It's such a Southern thing
0 o.

If you could be immortal for a day, what
would you do?

Everything. Assuming “immortal” also ensures
that ti_me means nothing, so I could do every-
thing in one day. I'd probably start by sleeping
unti Iwoke up without an alarm.

.Your fayorite moment of being a student
at Washington and Lee?

The Mock Con Gala - I a|ways_|ike f_orma|s be-
cause everyone is_dressed so nicely, it was _nice
tosee everyone without the pressure of political,
academic, or Greek afﬁliations, ]USt having fun
dancing to a great band. And I got to spend it
with two of my best friends.

What is your nickname from high school?

Raya Sunshine.

 

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

  arts&life'

 

The secret lifeof RAS

I13 4 in the morning. Do you know where your RAS are?

By Andrea Owen
STA F F w R l T E R

Baseball cap? Check.

Binder? Check.

Lanyard with master keys? Check.

On-call phone? Check.

Decked out in “uniform” and
equipped with the appropriate supplies,
Residential Advisers set out Saturday to
patrol and protect the student body.

Every Wednesday, Friday, and Sat-
urday nights, at least two Residential
Advisers are “on-call” for undergradu-
ate and law students, taking 11pm and
1:30am rounds through Graham-Lees,
Davis, Gilliam, and Gaines residence
halls, as well as Woods Creek Apart-
ments.

Of course, as students stumble
throughout the dorms and sometimes
suffer from more serious substance-
related conditions, the RA job often
consists of monitoring drug-and-alcohol

' issues. And although resentment may

build towards RAs for their actions in
this realm, Taylor Gilﬁllan, a senior
Residential Adviser, tells students that
essentially, RAs are not responsible for
repercussions.

“We’re not giving strikes,” said Gil-
ﬁllan during his Saturday night rounds,
explaining that not only are drug-and-
alcohol related prosecutions up to the
Dean of Students and the Student Ju-
dicial Council, but that ultimately, the
responsibility for such infractionslies

on the student.
However, despite the apparent glam-
our of their “crime-ﬁghting” responsi-

bilities, RAs would surely say that their
experience is not WLPD.
In fact, the majority of time spent

doing rounds consists of identifying

.¢'.;*|‘A V " ’ =

From left to right, first-year Residential Advisers Taylor Gilfillan and Jordan Kearns, as well as law-
student Residential Adviser Cara Regan stand ready to face the challenges of their jobs.

he_ lookout for how to make things safe.

maintenance-related issues, from bro-
ken wall ﬁxtures to faulty or missing

   

doorknobs.

Gilﬁllan, his tall stature barely ﬁtting
through the halls of Davis, said jokingly
about the dangling nautical ceiling de'-
cor: “I think we need to put in a work
order for this.”

To deal with the sometimes dull
tasks of patrolling, second-year Resi-
dential Adviser Jordan Kearns says he
ﬁnds ways to spice up his job, as he re-
places off-color comments on hall bul-
letin boards and door whiteboards with
more pleasant remarks.

RAS on call also spend much of their
time picking up stray pizza boxes and
making sure theirrespective owners
deal with clean-up. Gilﬁllan demon-
strated his years of RA experience when
he immediately located the phone num-
ber of pizza-box owners on the delivery
labels to request a clean-up.

And although Gilﬁllan assured stu-
dents that RAs are students just like
those they serve, he understands the
seriousness and importance of his du-
ties to the student body and University
as a whole.

“We did sign our names on the dot-
ted line to uphold University policy, and
if we see, smell, or hear something and
don’t follow through on it, that’s essen-
tially breaking down our integrity,” he
said. “We have to do our jobs.” ,

From making sure hallways are orderly to keeping‘ the peace, resident advlsors a

 

C‘

 

 

   

 

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22,2012

9 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

  

 

 

ports

Generals football suffers ﬁrst loss

31-14 loss leaves the team empty handed

By Sarah Ward
STAFF WRITE R

Washington and Lee scored just two
touchdowns in its 31-14 loss to Bridge-
water at Jopson Field on Saturday, re-
cording the ﬁrst conference loss of the
season.

A fumble in the second quarter at the
Bridgewater 29 yard-line cost the Gener-
als their ﬁrst scoring opportunity and led

to an 85-yard touchdown drive just two ’ ’
possessions later by the Eagles to put the . ‘

score at 10-0.

On their next possession the Generals
were able to make it to the ﬁrst yard line,
but were thwarted after failing to get into

the end zone after going for it on fourth 1

down.

The Generals ﬁnally found me end
zone in the second half with a touch-
down just four minutes into the third
quarter. Senior running back Brett Mur-
ray scored on a 13-yard running play to

Senior defensive back Jake Pelton

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

make the score 10-7 Bridgewater.
A 66-yard touchdown pass two posses-
sions later by Bridgewater quarterback

Willie Logan gave the Eagles a 17-7
edge with 7:17 left in the third quarter.
The Generals responded with a touch-

    

down by senior running back Luke
Heinsohn on a 1-yard rushing play to end
the third quarter with a score of 17-14.

W&L’s next possession ended in a
fumble recovered by Bridgewater that
led to a touchdown with 3:00 remaining
in the game to increase the Eagles’ lead
to ten points.

The Generals’ senior quarterback Nick
Lombardo then threw an interception
that Bridgewater ran back for a touch-
down, which marked the ﬁnal scoring
play, putting the Eagles ahead 31-14.

Lombardo recorded 173 yards with
two interceptions. Heinsohn added 123
yards and a touchdown while Murray
rushed for 80 yards and a touchdown.

Senior linebacker Zach Zoller led the
defense with 11 tackles. 4

The Generals (5-2, 3-1) look to add a
non-conference win to their record ‘as
they travel to Catholic on Saturday for a
1:00 pm game.

Perfect month  

Generals have won every game in October

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s soc-
cer team, extended their wins streak to
nine games this week with wins against
Guilford and Randolph Macon. The
team has not lost a game since falling to
Virginia Wesleyan 1-0 on Sept. 22.

On Tuesday, the Generals hosted Guil-
ford, defeating them soundly by a score
of 6-0. Sophomore Katherine Rush led
the Generals, scoring two goals. Katie
Rossi, Haley Ward, Taylor DeVoe, and
Mary Woodruff Grifﬁn each added a
goal to the total.

Generals’ goalies Kingsley Schroeder
and Addie Healy had an easy day in the
net. In their split time neither of them
were forced to make a save. Guilford got
four shots off but none of them were on
target.

The Generals continued their streak
when they defeated Randolph Macon in
a tough match-up on Saturday, 1-0. Rush
scored the only goal, with her team-lead-
ing 12th goal of the season. Healy had
three saves on the day, preserving the
shutout for the Generals.

1

Going into their final game the Gener-
als record is 13-2-1 overall and 9-1-1 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.
They are currently ranked second in the
conference behind Virginia Wesleyan.
The team ﬁnishes up their regular season
with a home game against Sweet Briar
on Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. before the
ODAC tournament begins on Saturday.

.-34

Sophomore forward Katherine Rush

   

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

United we swim

Coach‘ Gardner, the swimmers enjoying the new make—up of W&L swimming

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER_

Let’s face it: Washington and Lee is
known to be quite segregated by gender.
The swimming program, however, has
broken the mold with its recent uniﬁca-
tion of the men’s and women’s teams.

Early last year men’s head coach Joel
Shinoﬁeld resigned. He eventually be-
came the executive director of the Col-
lege Swimming Coaches Association of
America. In his absence women’s head
coach Kami Gardner took over as inter-
im men’s head coach. W&L’s swimming
program never looked back from there.

Instead of allowing higher authori-
ties dictate the future of W&L’s swim-
ming program, the decision of whether
to keep the team uniﬁed under a single
coach lay in the hands of the swimmers
themselves. This is a process that Coach
Gardner describes as “very student-driv-
en.” The swimmers had thoroughly en-

joyed the fostered uniﬁcation during the
2011-2012 season,‘ as both sides were
able to experience ﬁrst-hand their swim-
ming counterparts’ success. The decision
to unify was easy. In April of this year,
Coach Gardner was officially promoted
to head coach of the men’s swimming
team.

The uniﬁcation’s effect on the team,
even at this early juncture in the season,
is clear to Coach Gardner:

“It has made for a more energetic and
positive atmosphere, and the team en-
joys it,” explains Gardner. “It has led to
bigger and better goals, and [the swim-
mers] want to be viewed as one team.’-’

This boost in morale and camaraderie
is not the only strong foundation for the
team. Gardner herself has earned numer-
ous coaching accolades, including Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Coach of

the Year three out of the previous four
seasons. She believes that her success as
a coach is attributed to the way she al-
locates responsibility to her swimmers,
which gives them “ownership of their
accomplishments and ownership of the
team.”

Coach Gardner begins each season
with the same challenge. “Right now,
this is my team. I hope by the end of the
season you can take it away from me,”
she tells her swimmers. The student-
inspired decision to unify the men’s and
women’s swimming teams is indicative
of the swimmers’ efforts to control their
destiny, to come together without force,
to truly own the team. Both sides will
be cheering each other on as the team
competes against Randolph-Macon next
Monday at home.

women’s first stroke is strong

Brassﬁeld leads well-rounded team

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

After a week of competing in the pool,
Washington and Lee’s women’s swim
team is 2-1 and took the top spot at the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference re-
lays on Saturday.

Over Reading Days the team travelled
to Louisville, Ky. to face Centre and De-
Pauw. They defeated Centre handily by
a score of 184-78 but lost a tight battle
with DePauw 134-157.

First-year Stephanie Foster won two
events for the Generals in the meet. She
won the 100 back in 1:01.87 and the 200
back in 1:00.18. '

The Generals had their home opening
meet on Friday when they were able to
edge out Mary Washington 133-129.

Senior Izzy Brassﬁeld led the way for
the Generals in the close contest with
three ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes. Brassﬁeld won

the 50 free in 25.41 seconds and the 100
free in 55.41 seconds. She was also a
part of the winning 200 free relay. Senior
Delaney Rolfe, junior Meredith Hardy,
and ﬁrst-year Sarah Schaffer joined her
in her efforts.

Rolfe and Schaffer each won individ-
ual events. Sophomore Caroline Hamp
also added two individual victories.

On Saturday the Generals returned to
the Cy Twombly P001 to host the ODAC
relays. W&L took the top spot in nine of
the ten events to take the victory with
454 points. The only event that the Gen-
erals did not win was the 500 yard relay
in which they took third.

The Generals take the pool again this
Saturday as they host Randolph-Macon
at 1 pm.

KYLE JAEGER

   

3
‘Q6

  

the rest of the rotation will be

 

HAILEY HARTLEY

The New York Yankees, my initial pick for the
World Series and personally my favorite team, have
failed me. I felt that the Yankees were the strongest
team in baseball, and to my surprise, the Detroit Ti-
gers promptly swept them. The awe-inspiring per-
formance by‘ the Tigers in the ALCS was enough
to make them title contenders in my mind. Their 4
straight wins, combined with slight personal bias
(if the Yanks can’t win, I would rather have the
team that beat them win) make the Detroit Tigers
my selection to win the World Series.

One big factor in the playoffs is timing. The Ti-
gers are red hot right now, firing on all cylinders.
They seem to have the most momentum of any
team in baseball.-Also, the sweep of the Yankees
gives the Tigers time to rest their pitchers and star
players. The winner of the Cardinals/Giants match-
up will not be as mentally and physically prepared
for the World Series because they will have a much
shorter turnaround time than the Tigers.

The Tigers as a team are stacked. Miguel Ca-
brera, the favorite for AL MVP, combined with
Prince Fielder, give the Tigers the best 1-2 punch
in baseball. They may be the best offensive team in
baseball, as shown by their series clinching 8-1 win
against the Yankees, a perennial offensive power-
house. While the batting is strong, their pitching
may be better. Justin Verlander could be the best
pitcher in the playoffs right now, and any time he is
on the mound the Tigers should expect to win. He
will be well rested entering the World Series, and

able to provide great support
in between his starts.

St. Louis is currently lead-
ing the»NLCS 3-1 against the

 

H.-.A!.l

As I write this, the MLB
National League is still up
in the air. The St. Louis
Cardinals are up 3 games to
2 against the San Francisco

 

Giants. This is a good sign for
the Tigers. The Giants rely on

All but three MLB teams have fallen in their
quest for a World Series Championship. Only
the Tigers, Cardinals, and Giants remain.

Giants. Despite the Giants’
amazing comeback against

strong pitching, and the tre— who wiuwin it any thé R€dS in the N1-D5, 1 3111
mendous bat of Buster Posey_ Hailey and Kyle go to bat for who they think convinced the Cardinals are
will take home the crown.

This could prove problematic

going to be able to pull this

to the Tigers, as the Giants’
pitching might be able to over-
power the Tigers’ bats. However, if the Cardinals
hold on to win the NLCS, the matchup for the Ti-
gers will be a good one. Like the Tigers, the Cardi-
nals rely on a few strong pitchers and a very good
lineup of hitters. The Cardinals make up as a team
is quite similar to the Tigers. The difference be-
tween the teams lies in execution. The Tigers’ play-
ers are simply better than the Cardinals. I would
rather have Justin Verlander on the mound than
Adam Wainright, and I would rather have Miguel
Cabrera and Prince Fielder up to bat than Matt Hol-
liday and Matt Carpenter. I

Overall, the variables of time and matchups
that often set teams apart in the playoffs are point-

"ing in the Tigers’ favor, and they are the most well

-rounded team left in the playoffs. I have no doubt
that the Tigers will win the World Series. I predict
that the Tigers beat the Cardinals 4-2 in the best of
seven series.

series out (okay, maybe I’m

a little biased). They’ve far
exceeded anyone’s expectations of their ﬁrst post-
Albert Pujols season. They’ve done an incredible
amount of damage, defeating the Braves in the
wild card single game elimination and beating
who many considered to be the World Series fa-
vorites, the Washington Nationals.

Their incredible comeback win in game ﬁve
showed they can never be counted out of a game.
They were down to their last strike against the
Nats in Washington. Did I mention they were
down by six in just the third inning? These guys
are incredible. This is a team that very few peo-
ple gave a chance without Albert Pujols. They’re
playing as the upset team, the team no one gave
a chance, despite being the returning champions.

The team is playing at their best when they
need to. Last year’s postseason hero David Freese
is batting .333 against some of the best pitchers
in the league. Carlos Beltran has returned the

Cardinals’ lineup. Young guys like shortstop Pete
Kozma are making a name for themselves this
postseason. And veterans like Carlos Beltran and
Matt Holliday are looking to solidify themselves
among some of baseball’s elite.

The Cardinals’ starting pitchers are getting the
job done. But what’s really making the difference
for the pitchers is the run support. St. Louis is
averaging over nine rims per win this postseason,
while their losses are coming out’ to less than two
runs per game. The batting power is allowing the
pitchers to make little mistakes, which in a tighter
game (aka, their losses) make the difference in
the win-loss column.

The Cardinals just need a little postseason
magic to pull off back-to-back championship sea-
sons. It hasn’t been done since the ’98-’99-’00
Yankees did it with the Core Four. St. Louis may
not have that kind of star power, but they have
the right motivation to keep the Commissioner’s
Trophy in St: Louis.

 

 

10> ' THE RING-TUMi PHI 0

MONDAY,

OCTOBER 22,2012

sports

 

inthe numbers

1

Indiana University is ranked first in the USA Today coaches’
preseason poll. They received 21 out of 31 first place votes
on their way to getting 761 total points. They return four
starters from a team that made it to the Sweet 16last year.
Louisville is ranked second and University of Kentucky is

ranked third.

Number of weeks in a row that Alabama Crimson Tide have
been ranked number one in the AP college football poll.
This is a new school record. The previous record was seven

which they achieved twice, in 1979 and 1980.

soapbox

“We needed something different. I think
you're going to notice a difference. We ,
need somebody to increase the way things
are around here and John’s the guy. I’m
excited.”

-Davld Ortiz about the Red Sox hlnn of
John Ferrell as their new manager. rrell
has been managing the Toronto Blue Jays

“No matter what situation we’re in, no
matter how many points we need or a ﬁeld
goal we need, we have the conﬁdence we
can do it. We have a lot of conﬁdence in
each other, and in Eli. ”

-New York Giants’ receiver Victor Cruz after
Sunday's game versus the Washington
Redskins. Eli threw a game winning
touchdown with 1:13 ieftin the game_to.
take the victory. Manning now has 22
game winning drives in the fourth quarter
or overtime in his career, from ESPN.com

ondeck

By Hailey Hartley
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Men’s soccer fell for the ﬁrst
time since Sept. 25 in a 3-0 loss
to Roanoke on Saturday. With the
loss, the Generals fall into second
place in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference behind Roanoke
heading into the last week of the
regular season.

The Generals had just one shot
on goal against Roanoke. Senior
defender Collier Wiseman was
the lone General to force Maroon
goalkeeper Cole Sinclair to make

a save.

Roanoke’s Chris Conover was
the playmaker for the Maroons,
scoring all three of their goals on
each of his three shots.

On the defensive side, goalie
Albeit Civitarese made two saves
in the entire contest.

The Generals also played a
tough match-up earlier in the
week when they faced Randolph
on Tuesday. The game ended in a
0-0 tie after both teams failed to

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

score in the 90 minutes of play
in regulation and the additional
twenty minutes from two over-
times. '

Civitarese was the main differ-
ence for the Generals. Washington
and Lee was once again having
trouble putting the ball near the
net. The Generals were only able
to put one shot on goal that Ran-
dolph goalkeeper Carter Smith
was able to save. Civatarese made
six saves, including two in the

Generals can’t ﬁnd net

Washington and Lee only gets two Shots on goal in 200 minutes of play

overtimes, to keep Randolph off
of the board.

Going into the last week of the
regular season the team’s record
is 9-4-2, 6-2-2 in the ODAC. The
team will play their ﬁnal game
of the regular season at East-
ern Mennonite on Tuesday. The
ODAC tournament begins on Sat-
urday.-

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

All eyes were on senior right
side hitter Taylor Maxey as the
Washington & Lee volleyball
team swept Guilford 3-0.

Maxey was honored during the
last home match of the season last
Wednesday. She is the only senior
on the squad.

Maxey’s six foot frame is a bit
intimidating once you meet her.
It’s even scarier when you learn
during track season she throws
shot put, discus, hammer as well
as indoor weight.

Beyond athletics, Maxey’s
schedule is ﬁlled with activities
including drama, work at the ITS
Information Desk in James G.
Leybum Library, and her work
study at the Lenfest Center. She
says she is amazed she can do all
of it.

But it was Maxey’s performance
of strength and athleticism that
helped the Generals defeat Guil-
ford 25-20, 25-13, and 25-19.
With the win, the Generals moved
to a 19-7 overall record and a 7-1

conference record.

Maxey contributed four kills
and two blocks in the victory. She
had a .273 kill percentage only
behind those ofjunior outside hit-
ter M.A. Boles and ﬁrst-year out-
side hitter Anna Lausberg. Boles
led the team with 19 kills and
Lausberg added 14.

Maxey had totaled 251 kills and
73 blocks in 184 career sets coin-
ing into the match against Guil-
ford.

The victory last Wednesday also

Snyder wins 400th

Maxey honored in ﬁnal home game of the season

marked 400 career wins for Head
Coach Bryan Snyder. in his 522nd
match, Snyder improved his ca-
reer winning percentage to .766.
His percentage is currently the 12
best in the history ofNCAA Divi-
sion lll coaches with a minimum
of 10 years coaching.

The Generals will return to play
on Wednesday, Oct. 24 at Bridge-
water.

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee ﬁeld
hockey team ﬁnished the weekend
1-] after “sticking it to cancer” on
Saturday and celebrating Senior
Day on Sunday.

The Generals defea‘ted Virginia
Wesleyan 2-1 on Saturday in the
“Stick It To Cancer” game held
on the W&L Turf Field. The team
sold shirts and hadlhalftime ac-
tivities to raise money for the Na-
tional Foundation for Cancer Re-
search (NFCR).

Senior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne
had nine saves to set the record
for career saves at W&L. Junior
midﬁelder Lauren Boone and ﬁrst-
year forward Charlotte MacDon-
ald scored the two goals early in
the game for W&L. V

The achievements of Kyne and
fellow senior Chelsea Stevenson
were celebrated at the last regular
season home game on Sunday at
the W&L Turf Field.

Kyne holds three records for
the Generals; This season she has

which as of Saturday’s game is
134. She also holds the single

set the single season saves record .

game saves record with 21 which
she set last year in a game versus
Catholic, and the career saves re-
cord.

Stevenson has played in all but
two games in her career. Since her
sophomore year she has started all
but two games. This season Ste-
venson leads the team with four
goals. /

Kyne and Stevenson say they
will miss the competition and the
team atmosphere the most. They
advised fellow teammates to en-
joy the time they have left on the
team.

“I can’t imagine how I’m- going
to feel in a few weeks when I am
done with team sports forever,”
Stevenson said.

The Generals lost 5-1 to sev-
enth ranked Christopher Newport
on Senior Day. F irst-year for-
ward Claire Townsley scored the
lone goal for the Generals. Kyne
played all 70 minutes for the Gen-
erals and tallied 15 saves.

The team will ﬁnish up the regu-
lar season on Wednesday, Oct. 24
at Bridgewater.

Senior goalkeeper Kirten Kyne

FH sticks it to cancer

Kyne breaks career record in game dedicated to ﬁnding a cure

 

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

I

. e _ .
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

Field Hockey at Bridgewater4pm ODACSTBC
Men’s Soccer au;-Mu7pm ODACSTBC
wom-envs soccer vsSweetBriar4pm oDAcsT3c

Cross Country

ODACS W:11, M:12

Volleyball

at Bridgewater 6:30 pm

2 contests in ATL

at Emory 3:30 pm

Football 4

at Catholic 1 pm

Swimming

vs Roanoke 4:30 pm.

vs R-M ~1pm

 

’
‘ o

 

Opinions / pa'ge_5

* wawl: govur "swag" hat?
All it takesiis raising $206 for Up ‘1'il Dawn; just
sacrifice that Vinyard Vines polo you’ve been
meaning to pick up. The hat is way cooler anyway.

A&L / page 7

TH

   CWASHINGTONAND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS

SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 7

Keeping journalism on its toes

By Krysta Huber
5 TA F F w R I T E R

The Washington and Lee journalism
and mass communications department
completed its ﬁrst of three phases in the
reaccreditation process last week.

From Oct. 21 to Oct. 24, a groupof
reviewers met with students, faculty, and
administrators and observed and evalu-
ated the curriculum and daily operations
of the department, according to Depart-
ment Head Pamela Luecke.

The reaccreditation process occurs

' every six years and is run by outside

professionals and professors who volun-
teer their time to work as re-accreditors,
according to Luecke. After reviewing a

. self-report provided by W&L and spend-

ing several days within the department,
the re-accreditors construct a report that
calls for reaccreditation, non-accredi-
tation or provisional. The latter of the
three gives the department two years to
improve upon their weaknesses before
reevaluation.

“After the first stage during the fall
term, they leave a draft recommendation,
so it’s not final,” said Luecke. “Their
recommendation can be reversed at any
other stage and the remaining stages will
take place in March and May.”

Over 400 universities and colleges‘

teach journalism and mass communica-
tions across the country, but according
to Luecke, only some 110 are accredited.
Only about 15 of the accredited joumal-
ism programs exist at private universi-
ties, making W&L a unique institution.
According to Luecke, the distinction
of an accredited department is important
to students, parents and faculty because

to itsrcurriculum. Since the last time the
department was re-accredited, a major
change that occurred was the merge be-
tween the broadcast and print journalism
majors into a single journalism concen-
tration.

“In today’s multimedia world, you
can’t be a broadcast major and never
learn how to write a story,” said Luecke.
“You can’t say, ‘I never want to write for

“In today is multimedia world, you can ’t be a broadcast

major and never learn how to write a story. ”
PAMELA LUECKE, Journalism Department Head

it solidiﬁes the strength of the depart-
ment’s curriculum.

“Accreditation is a kind of external
validation that what we are teaching is
current, appropriate and of a high qual-
ity,” she said.

The department’s mission statement
emphasizes the need to teach students
to effectively communicate in today’s
society. As a result, the department
makes consistent changes and additions

a newspaper,’ or ‘I never want to touch
a camera’.”

This message of convergence and
an ever-changing media structure is
stressed to students not only by depart-
ment professors in the classroom, but by

a variety of media specialists who visit

W&L each term to talk about their roles‘

in the media industry.
Recently, New York Times media
columnist David Carr visited W&L as

a participant in the Ethics Institute, run
by the journalism and mass communica-
tions department at W&L.

Carr delivered a speech to students
in Lee Chapel and served as a co-mod-
erator for upperclassmen students in the
ethics course, in a two-day seminar of
real world examples of ethical debate,
according to Knight Professor of Ethics
Edward Wasserman.

As the ethics professor, Wasserman
is responsible for coordinating the guest
who visits during the Ethics Institute
each year.

“David Carr is one of the most in-
teresting, original and inﬂuential media
columnists out there right now,” said
Wasserman. “Having him on campus
enabled students to hear from somebody
who is monitoring the media scene very
broadly.”

Wasserman added that it is impor-
tant for students to learn from writers
like David Carr because it adds a fresh
perspective to the ways that students are
exposed to the current state of the media.

“I don’t think you can separate the
speaker from what we teach in the de-
partment of mass communications as a

whole,” said Wasserman. ‘‘It is a part of
it in the same way that required intem-
ships are — as a package of preparations
that we try to provide.”

First-year student Hendley Badcock
was among the journalism and mass
communications students to hear Carr
speak. She said that Carr made the dis-
tinction that the news industry isn’t
dwindling as so many critics and citizens
claim, but it is instead changing along-
side new technology.

Luecke explained that professionals
like Carr support the department’s effort
to keep its teaching as up—to-date as pos-
sible.

“It’s very important to our program
that our students are prepared for the
profession that they are going to enter,”
said Luecke. “As a faculty we all have
strong professional backgrounds, but
we have been teaching for a while, so
we need to make sure that our students
are aware of what the expectations are
in today’s profession and the profession
of tomorrow.”

Alums make one last Republican push

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

United States Congressmen Bob
Goodlatte and Joe Wilson addressed
Washington and Lee students, local
residents and Virginia Military Institute
cadets for the College Republican’s fall
term keynote address on Wednesday at
Lee Chapel. Both senators made speech-
es and conducted a question-and-answer
session during the event.

Goodlatte, W&L Law Class of I977,
and Wilson ’69, make up “two-thirds of
the W&L delegation” within the House
of Representatives, and have been serv-
ing within the house for 20 and ll years
respectively. Goodlatte was ﬁrst elected
to his position in 1992 for the sixth con-
gressional district in Virginia, which in-
cludes Rockbridge County, while Wilson

Congressman Joe Wilson stops for dinner and dessert at his W&L fraternity, Sigma Nu, before addressing students in Lee Chapel.

was ﬁrst elected in 2001 for the second
congressional district in South Carolina,
which includes the state capitol, Colum-
bia.

The address had begun with College
Republicans President Lex Luther intro-
ducing each representative, starting with
Goodlatte who first spoke about his ex-
periences in Lexington.

After speaking highly of his time
at W&L, he began to speak about the
platform for reelection on Nov. 6. The
main points that the senator believes in
are limited government, less govern-
ment regulation and the traditional fam-

ily, which he said are almost identical to '

Representative Wilson’s beliefs.
Goodlatte then began to criticize

President Obama, saying that his poli-
cy and his presidency “simply hav_en’t
worked.” He also spoke about the need
for Republican reinforcement and the
need for Republican Candidate Mitt
Romney to be elected.

Goodlatte’s main point was to get rid
of the national debt. His main solution to
the debt problem is to create a balanced
budget amendment in the Constitution.
This amendment would force Congress
to submit a balanced budget every year
that would stop the debt from rising and
would allow the government to slowly
chip away at it.

Goodlatte also tried to appeal to the
students in the crowd by speaking about
the importance of making it easier for

them to get jobs after graduating college.
In order to create more jobs, Goodlatte
said that the government needs to focus
on the private sector when it comes to
certain regulated jobs in areas such as
energy production and infrastructure.»

Following Representative Goodlatte
was Wilson, who spoke mainly of the’
new Republican Party dominance within
the southern states, “from Virginia to
Texas.” He stated that all southern states
now have Republican majorities and
many have elected Republican gover-
nors as well.

Following the two speeches was a
question and answer session, which Lu-
ther said was “the best part of the event.”

The two representatives answered a

wide variety of questions, including Iran
as a national threat, the farm bill on the
floor, Wilson’s interruption of one of
President Obama’s speeches, EPA regu-
lation and the decision on Obamacare.

When asked about the Q&A session,
Luther said, “The questions from the
audience were thoughtful and the Con-
gressmen gave really pointed responses,
never skirting the issue.”

If you missed this term’s keynote ad-
dress, the College Republicans are plan-
ning to invite more speakers during win-
ter term for a second keynote address.
Luther said, “It is our hope to have a
keynote address next term that is just as
good for everyone that missed it.”

PHOTO COURTESY OF SIGMA NU FRATERNITY

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

W&L brings in the lnr Queen

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY‘ EDITOR

Students unsure about the internship
process are not alone. Lauren Berger, CEO
of IntemQueen.com, has the answers they
need.

Berger visited Washington and Lee
University last Tuesday to discuss how
college students can attain internships.

Students should start by participating

plying for an internship, students should
read an intemship’s listing in its entirety.
“You want to know what "you’re getting
into,” Berger said.

When a company requests a cov-
er letter and resume, students should send
them as soon as possible.

In preparation for an interview, “look at

in at least one professional experience, at
least one volunteer experience and, most
importantly, at least one on-campus expe-
rience.

Next, students should prepare their
cover letter and resume, tailoring these
documents for the internships they are ap-
plying for.

“The cover letter is not a novel,” Berg-
er said. “Don’t come across as too much
of a fan [of the employer].” Berger said
the cover letter should connect with the
employer in two to three paragraphs.

The cover letter should also clearly
state the dates that a student will be in the
city of the employer. “Employers aren’t
going to waste their time on a candidate
who might go to New York or Los Ange-
les,” Berger said.

The resume should consist of one page
of the most impressive and the most rel-
evant experiences to the internship.

Then, students should apply to at least

the company’s mission statement,” Berger
said. “Try to incorporate some of those
buzz words into the interview when you’re
talking.”

Students should dress professionally
for the interview. Women should wear
dark-colored business suits. Pencil skirts

are acceptable, too. In general, Berger
said, “there shouldn’t be anything looking
at you in the mirror that shouldn’t be.”
During the interview, students should
highlight not only what they did in pre-
vious experiences, but also how their on-
campus experiences relate to the compa-
nies they are applying to. “Put yourself
in the mind of the employer before your
interview,” Berger said. “What can you
saythat will impress them the most?”
Whatever a student’s experience,
“top it off in the interview,” Berger said.
“Explain what you’re doing so that they
understand how impressive your experi-
ence really is.”
After interviewing, students should

write a ‘Thank You’ note on a profession-
al-looking piece of stationery that has their
ﬁrst name and last name on it or purchase
and write on ‘Thank You’ cards sold at the
grocery store that are blank on the inside.

These ‘Thank You’ notes should be
hand-written. In the note, students should
write, “Thank you for the time for the
interview, and I look forward to hearing
from you,” said Berger. The interviewer
should receive the note in the mail two to
four days after the interview.

Once ‘at the internship, students should
network with fellow interns and use the
internship’s resources, some of which can-
not be found elsewhere.

While interning at a public relations
agency, for example, Berger would stay
after work for an hour or so each ‘day to
access the agency’s media guides, which
had valuable contact information for fu-
ture opportunities in the industry.

Interns should acquaint themselves
with company management. Berger, for
instance, emailed the heads of the net-
work, programming, publicity, and ﬁve
other departments at FOX Broadcasting
Company. In the emails, she “played the
student card,” Berger said. In these emails,
Berger asked to meet the executives for
advice on what to do after graduating col-
lege. ‘

Berger then met the executives for
about ﬁve minutes. At the end of these
ﬁve-minute meetings, she was told to
“stay in touch.”

“Those are the magic words,” Berger
said.

Students should stay in touch three
times a year. Every spring, summer and
fall, students should email all professional
contacts. The email, Berger said, should
basically read, “Hi, I’m going to Washing-
ton and Lee, I’m going into my, say, senior
year, I’m taking some interesting classes,
and I hope you’re well.”

In addition to staying in touch three
times a year, Berger emails professional
contacts to celebrate events in their per-
sonal and professional lives. She emails
them around the holidays and on their
birthdays and sets Google Alerts for them
to congratulate them on a promotion or to
wish them well after changing jobs.

At W&L, students should build profes-
sional contacts with W&L alumni and use
the Career Development Center every step
along the way to attaining an internship.

ten internships every semester. Before ap-

Nanceportation;-B

Airports-Medical Appointments

Long Distance Travel

Nancy Osella, Owner/Driver

Reservations: (540) 464-6162 - nancyosel|a@comcast.net ,

Providing personalized service to and from any airport, train station and out of town medi-

cal appointments. Door to door long distance travel; have a friend you want to visitat another
_ University? We can get you there or anywhere.

Specializing in group airport travel during W&L breaks, Nancy pairs riders together, or you
can get a group together and earn referral dollars. When you return from break your car will be
waiting for you at the airport, no need to stand in line and order a car.

Parent’s Weekend Special, book Thanksgiving travel by Wed. Nov. 7 and receive 10% off

regular pricing.

Nanceportation Car Service, LLC

Certiﬁcate #222
Nancy Osella owner/driver

Reservations: home ofﬁce # (540) 464-6162 nancyosella@comcast.net ,
Locally owned & wife of a W&L alum. Serving the community since 2007.

IVIQHEB LEQAL DEF'EN§E, PLLQ

RELIABLEAN

SHEILAMOHEB

D AFFORDAB

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Syrian army airstrikes break truce

The Syrian army started a series of domestic airstrikes on Friday. Activist
groups in the country are saying that the government is behind the attacks. The
first of the attacks destroyed a three—story building in Damascus, killing at least
eight people. These attacks ended a truce that had been reached between the
government forces and the rebels in honor of Eid al-Adha.

Tensions in Myanmar leave areas in

near destruction

Tensions between Buddhists and Muslims in Myanmar continue. Several ar-
eas of the country are near total destruction, according to Human Rights Watch.
The most recent violence forced over 3000 citizens to evacuate their homes
and move towards shelters. These people were added to the over ten thousand
Muslims currently forced to live in small camps around the capital. This unrest
is threatening fragile reform movements in the country.

Activists protest crackdowns on
Russian opposition  

Activists assembled in central Moscow on Saturday to protest the govem-
ment’s crackdown on the Russian opposition. The protest was primarily a dem-
onstration against the alleged torture of Leonid Razvozzhayev, a fellow activist.
Three men were detained by the police during the protest. However, charges are
yet to be brought against them.

Iranian Citizens win EU prize for
defense of human rights

The European Union gives an award every year for dedication to the de-
fense of human rights called the Sakharov Prize. This year, two Iranian citizens
known for their opposition to the'oppressive government were the recipients.
Nasrin Sotoudeh is a lawyer for opposition activists. She is currently in prison
for her work. Jafar Panahi is a ﬁlmmaker banned in Iran. Winners are awarded
a $50,000 prize.

N"l'chama accused of staging coup
in Guinea Bissau "

Captain Pansau N’Tchama is accused of trying to stage a coup in Guinea
Bissau. Some officials believe he is behind the attacks that occurred in an army
barracks last week. These attacks killed six people. The transitional government
of the country arrested N’Tchama on Saturday. Those who are suspected to have
participated in the attacks were also arrested.

Anti-austerity protests continue in

Spain

Anti-austerity protests against the Spanish government continued over the
weekend. A movement dubbed the “Surround Parliament” protest encouraged
people to march on the legislature in order to show their opposition to the new
policies. The protest was anticipated, however, and the people were held back
by metal railings around the legislature. A large police force was also present to
dissipate the crowd.

Tokyo governor steps down after 14
years

Shintaro Ishihara, the governor of Tokyo for almost 14 years, stepped down
this week. He is forming a new political party through which he hopes to ﬁx Ja-
pan’s ﬁscal and political struggles. He blames the central government for many
of the country’s recent economic issues. Ishihara’s party will focus on large-
scale reforms for Japan in his return to the national scene. '

LE LEGAL REPRESENTATION

o RECKLESS DRIVING

SPEEDING
DUIS

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS

CAR ACCIDENTS

CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS  

iMOEBLEiGAL.COM - (540) 520-7355

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

‘v.-‘-.'A:3'r€_l.‘lt’«.’!'i.)f-3 Sr LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXITJGTON, VA 24450
OCT 3 02012’

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER
Rockbridge Area Hospice held its
16th Annual Hospice Hustle 5K walk on
Oct. 27 at Brewbaker Field in Lexington.
The event aims to “raise funds to
bridge the funding gap between the
cost of caring for hospice patients and
theamount we are reimbursed through
Medicare” according to Michelle K.
Jones, outreach coordinator of Rock-
bridge Area Hospice. It is designed to
bring more awareness of hospice care to
the residents of Rockbridge County.
“When patients and families need
care, they already know us by name,”
said Jones. “[We can serve] all residents
of Rockbridge County regardless of abil-
ity to pay if they meet criteria.”
All funds from participants and spon-
sors are used for patients. A committee

consisting of staff, community volun-
teers and board members organize the
event every year. Hospice Hustle also
aims to bring more awareness about

Every year, Rockbridge Area Hospice
aims to “exceed last year’s amount raised

and have more participants,” said Jones.

The event first began 16 years ago as

“When patients and families need care, they already

know us by name, ” said Jones. “[ We can serve] all
residents of Rockbridge County regardless of ability to

pay if they meet criteria. ”

—Michelle Jones, Rockbridge Area Hospice Outreach

Coordinator

volunteer opportunities, the scope of the
hospice’s services and the service area.

a fundraiser for Rockbridge Area Hos-
pice. The ﬁrst Hospice Hustle took place

under Susan Hogg, director of Rock-
bridge Area Hospice, in 1997.

Rockbridge County High School’s
Interact Club has volunteered at every
Hospice Hustle since, and volunteer
Wally Fogo has served as Grand Mar-
shall every year.

This year saw a new addition to the
proceedings when Rockbridge Area
Hospice gave participants a chance to
honor and remember their loved ones
during the event’s opening ceremony.
For a $20 donation, volunteers could buy
a footprint with the name or names of
their loved ones, which were then placed
on Brewbaker Field prior to the race’s
start.

As purveyors of a unique service,

Rockbridge Area Hospice also works

ustling for Rockbridge area hospice

with the students of W&L. Staff from the
organization have come in to speak to
students about hospice care as an alter-
native to more aggressive’ medical treat-
ments, as‘ well as its relation to subjects
such as religion and mortality.

This year’s Hospice Hustle ended
with the event’s ﬁrst ever after party.
Live music was provided by Loose
Change, and the party was free to ev-
eryone in the community. Food and
beverages were available for purchase
and games for children and adults were
also available, giving participants of this
year’s Hospice Hustle and residents of
Lexington a chance to enjoy their hard
work for a good cause.

Crushing and oVer—  
Ralstorfs story

0
COII1]I1 '
0
By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Aron Ralston, the real-life story be-
hind the movie “l27 Hours,” will speak
on Thursday at Keller Theater in Lenfest
Hall. Doors open at 7 p.m. The talk is
free and open to the public. The event
is sponsored by Washington and Lee’s,
Contact Committee and Outing Club.

There will be a screening of “127
Hours” at 4 p.m. on Oct. 31 in Stack-
house Theater, and there will be a table
outside the Commons from 10 a.m. to
1 p.m. on Oct. 30, Oct. 31, and Nov. 1.
Stop by the table to learn more about
the event and for FREE Contact Com-
mittee cups and coozies, Outing Club
stickers and a raffle for signed copies of
Ralston’s book, “Between a Rock and a i
Hard Place.” '

Doors open at 7:00 p. m.

An experienced climber and avid
outdoorsman, Ralston was descending
a remote Utah canyon alone when an
800-pound boulder broke loose, crush-
ing his right hand and pinning him
against the canyon wall. After nearly
ﬁve days — without water and with no
hope of escape — Ralston made a life-
or-death decision. He chose life by sev-
ering his arm below the elbow, rappel-
ling a 65-foot cliff out ofthe canyon, and
trekking seven miles to ﬁnd his would-
be rescuers.

Ralston documented his life-altering
experience in the New York Times best-
selling memoir, “Between a Rock and
a Hard Place,” which has been adapted
for the big screen by Danny Boyle, the

Academy Award-winning director of
“Slumdog Millionaire.” The ﬁlm stars
James Franco as Ralston, and his perfor-
mance, as well as the movie, have been
nominated for numerous awards.

As an inspirational speaker, Aron
Ralston moves audiences with his unfor-
gettable story. An ordinary man pushed
to the limits, Ralston demonstrates the
human capacity for the extraordinary.
He takes you on a riveting jdurney in
which courage, perseverance, and hu-
manity will defy the inevitable outcome.

For more information about Contact
Committee, visit Contact.wlu.edu, like
them on Facebook and follow them on
Twitter at @wluContact.

MQURS

Thursday, Nov. 1, 2012
Keller Theatre, Lenfest Hall
Washington and Lee University

7:30 p. m.

CONTACT

COX l.\ll F.E
rimming Ihl’ |1'urlLl In lrxlnqlnrr
u1nl.u1.Mlil Cd“

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am — 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6. am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am — 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am — 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am — 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
wvvw.leehi.com See our menu online

 Twitter @berkysfood

Find us on Face book

Get Unlcashctl at BLBC...

Lcxillgtolfs Only .\'lit-I°oln'cwcI-y!

  Now Serving
Pints & Cask Ale

Bring the Folks this Weekend
2 year Anniversary Party: Nov. 30 & Dec. 1

|°owc|'y and Tap Room
123 S. Randolph St, Lexington, VA
540-458-0146
Tap Room Hours:
Wed 4:30—7 p.m.
Fri 3:00-7:30 p.m.
Sat 2-5 p.m.

and as needed... check our website...
www.b|ue|abbrewing.com

facebook: Blue Lab Brewin 0

Co., LLC

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

opinions

 

By Yates Wilburn
5 TA F F w R IT E R

After two mediocre to average debate
performances, President Obama ﬁnally
caught a lucky break in the form of the
foreign policy debate this past Monday.
He was alert, prepared, and on target in
seemingly every topic moderator Bob
Schiefer could throw at him and Gov-
ernor Romney. Not surprising, seeing
as how the President has the entirety
of the State Department at his disposal,
daily brieﬁngs from the CIA, NSA, FBI,
DOD, DHS, and the rest of the alphabet
soup. I’m not criticizing him in the least
for this; it’s just a huge advantage going
into a debate where your opponent has
had little to no experience on the subject
matter. I

This reality was on clear display on
Monday night, as Romney just seemed
utterly unprepared to handle the subject
of foreign policy. Everything from “Syr-
ia is Iran’s only route to sea” to Rom-
ney’s lack of knowledge of basic mili-
tary structure (which was not handled
in a very gentlemanly manner by the
President) just screamed a lack of prepa-
ration. Unfortunately for Romney, his
incredible political advantages regard-
ing ﬁscal and economic issues—which
he would have regardless of experience
based on the President’s record—do not
extend to matters of pure foreign policy.

Keep in mind, I’m not talking about

economic issues that have an impact on ‘

how we behave as a country diplomati-
cally; I’m talking about military strategy,
territorial disputes, political recognition
of new countries, diplomatic negotia-
tions, etc. Nothing in Mitt Romney’s life
could have prepared him to adequately
compete with the President on this topic.
The President had four years of direct,
practical foreign policy experience com-
plete with consequences to draw upon
for this debate, obviously he was going
to win to some degree, it was only an is-
sue of how much.

Now, this is not a problem that is
insurmountable to Romney. A decent
portion of our nation’s presidents were
governors. immediately before becoming
president with no other federal govem-
ment experience—9 of 44 to be exact.
Woodrow Wilson and Ronald Reagan
are among those ranks, both of whom

arguably executed their foreign policy
duties quite well, despite having no
previous hands-on foreign policy ex-
perience. This lack of experience was
compensated for by years of previous
education on such matters (Wilson) and
by surrounding oneself with several in-

telligent, relevant, and wise people with

key insight on foreign policy (Reagan).
So, seeing as a detailed education on

foreign policy is a bit out of the ques-
tion for Romney at this point, he should’
probably look to surround himself with
knowledgeable advisors who could aid
him in any difficult decisions he will
face should he win the White House in
November. Personally, I am not pleased
with some ofthe choices he has made in
this regard. 17 of 24 are hand-me-downs
from the previous Bush administration,

one of which is Cofer Black who was
key in the establishment (or maintain-
ing if they were already there) of CIA
“Blacksites,” and putting the prettiest
picture possible on the disaster that was
(and is) the post-Saddam Iraqi govem-
ment.

While Gil have voted absentee for
Romney and I am a Romney supporter,
I am still very concerned about how

Beating around the G.iW. Bush A

much of the Bush II era’s foreign policy
he will continue. This_is not to say that
the President hasn’t kept much of Bush’s
strategies and policies, but I’m not much
of a fan of those either. We’ll see what
the future holds in a couple of weeks.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
_ NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

IULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM
LEIGHDANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA]. KORASH-SCHIFF

SHELBY FLORES
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
BAILEY RUSSELL
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

RONALD MAGEE IR.
DAVID WILSON

DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the

undergraduate school year.

THE RING—TUM PHI is a'

member of The Media Board, which can be reached at

mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING.—TUM~PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and

advertising do not necessarily

reflect the opinion of THE

RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 4-58-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Twisted Halloween advice

By Leah Gose
STAFF w R ITER

Dear Lovely First-Years,

Welcome to the magical season of cos-
tuming at W&L! You have completed the
dreaded October midterms, so put your
books down and sign off from Facebook:
it’s time to get ready for Halloween. Asher
Roth was right to love college, and had he
attended W&L, he would have been a huge
fan of this coming Wednesday.

Your ﬁrst assumption is probably that
Halloween here is like the Mardi Gras of
Lexington. Women running about topless,
men- drinking away their livers, college co-
eds living the life reality television strives
to replicate. I bet this is what you were ex-
pecting:

“Mean Girls” got your hopes up in mid-
dle school, didn’t it? The key to the proper
Plastics-style Halloween costume: begin
with the word “sexy” and fill in the blank
with an animal of your choice. For some
reason, animals of the safari don’t work
as well, so I would stray away from “sexy
hippo.”

Guys, in this sassy Hollywood version
of Halloween, you would normally get
away with being Barack Obama or some-
one that wears a plastic mask. No one off
the hill would judge you for your lack of
creativity, but here we are not typical Hal-
loween participants. Instead, you have to
compete with this:

 

That’s right. You’re looking at the sexi-
est thing to happen to W&L Halloween
Wednesday ever. Boys, unlike the “sexy
kittens” you might see at Blahville Uni-
versity, you get Florence (without the Ma-
chine), a human Twister game, an Avatar
(complete with working tail), and the hot-

test VMI grandma since Betty White.

For all of the ﬁrst-years, out in the coun- _

try (where you’ll most likely experience the
best of Halloween), you’ll see walking (and
probably stumbling) Christmas trees, life-
sized Teletubbies (scary, I.know, right?),
and jailbirds (and I don’t mean like the
women in Chicago). Say goodbye to your
“Mean Girl” fantasies and accept the fact
you’ll probably spend this Halloween as a
Power Ranger.

We take pride in our traditions, so I hope
you plan to stick to your gut this Wednes-
day. Think big! Find the salt to your pepper
shaker. Go all out with the couples costume.
That’s the key to success for your ﬁrst Oc-

tober 31st on campus. This Halloween, es-
pecially, don’t underestimate the lines for
Traveller and think “warm,” since it’s sup-
posed to rain. After all, Sexy Eskimo has a
fun ring to it.

Yours truly,

Twister Girl

 

.. ﬁg

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

to tit   editor

As a black student at this school, I
found the Ring-tum Phi"s recent edito-
rial. “Potato farmers and politicians: mi-
norittes in America,” extremely offen-
si\'e. The \\riter‘s attempt to gloss over
years of systetnalic discrimination and
oppression of the colored minorities in
this nation as little more than a “hazing
ritual“ vs as as disgusting as it was false.
M _\' people were pac into the bottom
of ships and brought here against their

Remember the O-Week barbeque up

i at the Ruins? Munching on pulled pork,

watching the southern sunset, chilling
with friends, laughing at the poor sap
that SoCo picked out of the crowd to
dance to “Kiss the Girl,” and receiving
more W&L themed free stuff to add to
the growing pile in the corner of your
Graham-Lees room?

If that image stirred something in
you, then congratulations, you love your
school. School spirit is in the water here,
and why shouldn’t it be? W&L is the
crowned Queen of the South by college
rankings, and surrounded by awesome
alumni whose loyalty to their alma mater
makes Harvard students blush crimson
with envy.

Flash forward, and you are at a foot-
ball game, rocking your Lee Chapel at-
tire—yes, with the blue blazer, and all

will. Those that managed to survive the
disease-ridden conditions ofslave ships
arrived in a land where USA legislation
stripped them of the most basic human
rights and forced them to work in the
most miserable conditions. It was well
into the l80()‘s before this eountry’s
government recognized our rights as
human beings, and well into the 20th
century before we were recognized as
citizens. I recognize that Po|ish-Ameri-

' staffeditorial

the girls in their dresses and pearls—and
the Generals score a touchdown! The
speakers blast, and that familiar, age-old
tune soars through the air, the Washing-
ton and Lee Swing. Everyone’s clap-
ping until they can’t feel their hands, but
something’s missing. Besides that one
point that everyone yells “LIKE HELL,”
nobody knows the words!

We acknowledge that we could have
a lot bigger problems on our hands than
that we do not know the words to our own
ﬁght song. After all, we’re a‘ Division 3
school; we are not that big sports school
like WVU or Virginia Tech, or—gulp—
Penn State. But even with all that, the
Washington and Lee Swing is more than
some ditty we scream across the ﬁeld to
startle fans and wake up law students.
It’s like knowing the words to the Honor
Pledge‘ or the Pledge of Allegiance; it’s

cans have suffered ethnic discrimination
and prejudice. That said, I do not recall
the part in my history book where Pol-
ish persons were bound in chains and
forcibly brought to this co  nor do
I recall laws against Polish e learn-
ing how to read, own prop , or vote.
The implicit comparison ofthe suffering
of our respective races is insulting and
severely lacking in proper perspective.
“Your tnove, ‘minorities’ "? We have

a tradition that deﬁnes this campus. We
wouldn’t be W&L Generals without our
devotion to preserving tradition.

What a great tradition it is too! Three
W&L students, Mark Sheafe (Class of
I906), Tod Robbins (Class of 191 I),
and Thornton Allen (Class of 1913) are
responsible for writing the Washington
and Lee Swing I02 years ago, in 1910.
Since then, it has become one ofthe most
well-known college ﬁght songs in Amer-
ica, and also one of the most borrowed.

Among the other colleges who have

taken up the swing are Tulane, Gonzaga,
and Iowa State, each Division I schools,
who probably know their version of the
song better than we know the original.
The reason that it is so well known
is probably because ofthe world ofjazz.
Nearly all the great jazz standards in his-
tory, from Louie Annstrong to Glenn

done nothing but move. Every time we‘
rcvolted against the overseer’s lash,
we moved. When we walked down
the streets of Montgomery, Alabama to
protest against the segregation of pub-
lic transportation, we moved. When we
marched on Washington, D.C. for jobs
and freedom, we moved. And every time
we reassert our humanity in the face of
politicians who believe we are uni-
formly deficient and law enforcement

Miller to Pete Fountain and the Dukes of
Dixieland, have recorded “The Swing,”
at some point in their careers. It was even
featured in the 1959 Danny Kaye movie
“The Five Pennies.” -

Impressive, right?

And as bad as it is with the Swing,
most people are not remotely aware of
how to sing the other W&L songs. That’s
right, for those of you who didn‘t know,
we have three: the Swing, Shenandoah,
and the Washington and Lee Hymn, and
each are mostly noted because the three
old a cappella groups, SoCo, JubiL'ee,
and General Admission has adopted one
ofthe songs as a signature. But there are
a lot of other colleges out there with less
tradition, and weaker athletics even in
D3 that still know their school songs.

We really don’t have an excuse. Ju-
niors received cups during O-Week that

ofﬁcers who write off our murders as

justiﬁable, we move. This artie|e‘s effort

to minimize the strides that the colored
minorities ofthis country have made, as
well as the suffering that bred those ef-
forts, reeks ofthe worst ignorance.

Ronald Ray Magee Jr. ‘ l3

  

have the words to the ﬁght song on the
side of it, and every time anyone walks
into the U-Store, they are playing in the
background. If these were songs that
everyone knew before us, those alumni
who are noted for being so loyal to their
alma mater, how loyal are we to W&L
and to our alumni?

The point is that this really is not
about us, or our athletics. It is that we
preserve traditions from the past because
we are mindful of the future. Some of
those traditions should be taken with a
grain of salt sometimes, but these tradi-
tions are what give W&L such a distinc-
tive character. That distinctive character
is what makes this place so unique, so
the next time you go to a football game,

A do everyone a favor and try the words.

It‘s tnore fun for you and everyone else.

a

  

 

    
 
 

P Come ciieer Washgtonand Lee, A
We’re going to win another victory!

    

The White and Blue we will ever wave in triumph
For the University. RAH! RAH! RAH! S
Fight to the ﬁnish we are with you,
Break through the line on every play;

Rush the ball on down the ﬁeld
And we will win this game today.

When Washington and Lee’s menfall in line,
We’re going to win again another time;  
For W&L lyell, lyell, lyell,
And for the University, lyell, like hell!

  And we will ﬁght! ﬁght! ﬁght! for every yard; ’
i , ,Circle the ends and hit that line right hard! H .  

,     R And we will roll those Wahoos on the sod!     l  
 C     Yes, by God!RAH! RAH! RAH!     I   I

   
 

 

 

6 0 THE4RlNG'TUM PHI 0

arts&life

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29,2012

  

 

12 Signs it’sParents’ Weekend

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR
You see random 8 year-olds run

ning around Windfall on Friday night.

Meeting all these new faces,

memorizing all those names - it’s
like O-Week all over again - parents’
edition. #throwback #goodtimes

Southern lnn, Bistro, Brix, Red Hen
- now’s your chance to try them all!

The latest, time-tested, guaranteed-
to-succeed excuse on campus: ‘‘I can’t

“Birdie” soars

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

Sweet Apple, Ohio, was a town of
poodle skirts, steadies, and curfews un-
til Conrad Birdie, the object of teenage
fantasy, swept through the Midwest in
sequined suits and superstar self-impor-
tance. It didn’t take long for bobby socks
to give way to brawls, and pin curls to be
replaced by pandemonium. What ensued
was a medley of hilarious one-liners,
buoyant choreography, and heartfelt mu-
sical numbers. The result was a show that
was alternately whimsical and stirring,
and completely memorable.

The Washington and Lee production of
Bye Bye Birdie was sold-out in all its per-

.   

 

formances. The play, directed and choreo-
graphed by Ms. Jenefer Davies, received
nothing but positive reviews during its run
last Thursday evening to Sunday after-
noon. The packed theater was consistent-
ly brimming with eager audience mem-
bers waiting for the house lights to dim. It
was then, to the amusement of onlookers,
that University President Kenneth P. Rus-
cio appeared to the crowd via projection,
dressed every bit the 19505 news anchor,
and instructed viewers to silence their
cell phones. He would continue to appear
at various points throughout the play in
this quasi-Walter Cronkite role, always
eliciting a well-eamed chuckle from the
audience. Then the lights dimmed, the

first blast of the overture sounded, and the

show began.

A distressed Keith Trump ’ 14, in the role
of company man Albert Peterson, was the
ﬁrst to appear on stage. Albert, who was
visibly upset, revealed that his client, mu-
sic sensation Conrad Birdie (Drew Martin
’l3), had just been drafted into the army.
In walked Albert’s secretary Rose Alva-
rez, played by the perfectly-casted pow-

erhouse Noel Price ’13, who promptly

announced that she was leaving the com-
pany aﬁer eight years of neglect by Al-
bert. After a heated argument, they ﬁnally

. reached an agreement: Albert would leave -

 

Rigt before the opening nightperformance, the ntie cast and
crew come together for a light-hearted moment.

Eager fans of all ages and genders gather around teenage sensa-
tion Conrad Birdie (Drew Martin ‘13) during “One Last Kiss.”

[insert obligation of choice] because my
parents are coming.” And yes, it works

' for everything.

Ever wondered what your room-
mate would look like 25 years from
now? Well, now you do.

Every conversation involves at

least ﬁve “missus/mister/sirs/
ma’ms,” three questions about your fu- .
ture dreams and aspirations, twocheesy

the company to become an English teach-
er and marry Rose, so long as he could
ﬁrst earn enough money to go back to
school. Rose, the brains of the operation,
quickly concocted a plan: Birdie would
perform one last time before joining the
army. He would travel to a small town
in Ohio to meet the randomly-selected

fan, 17 year-old Kim MacAfee, perform ~

Albert’s song entitled “One Last Kiss,”
and then kiss Kim in a gesture designed
to melt the hearts oftans nationwide. And
thus the plot was set in motion.

With farcical plot twists and unfailing
punch, the play introduced Kim (Chap-

  
  

  

man Sklar ’l5), a sweetly naive Mid-
westemer, and the rest of Sweet Apple as
they grappled with the chaos that the hip-
swinging, eyebrow-raising rock god Con-
rad Birdie had brought to their little town.
Throughout the show, numerous songs
stood out. Trump’s rendition of “Baby
Talk To Me” was reminiscent of the
crooners of the past, channeling the likes
of Sinatra. Price had several dynamic
numbers, but her performance of “Span-
ish Rose” was the song that most capti-
vated audience members. Sklar’s “How
Lovely To Be A Woman” was at once
amusing and endearing, and Martin’s
“Honestly Sincere” had some onlook- i
ers clutching their sides with laughter at
his dead-on impression of Elvis. Trump,

 

Martin, Price, and Sklar were joined by
Emily Streeper ‘l6, Southern Virginia
University student Richard Allen Tem-
pleman ’l3, and law student Rob Zahm
‘ l3L to create an incredibly talented main
ensemble.

The outstanding cast, in addition to the
amusing storyline, was what made the
production truly special. Said Davies,
“We have a fantastic cast, who not only
are good actors and singers and dancers,
but they’re great people.”

jokes, and one very enthusiastic “nice to
meet you!” (or two, for brownie points).

You can’t stop grinning, and your
ﬁngers are permanently stuck in the
shape of a handshake.
8 Father and son dream team? Let’s
go.
Q Those lost freshmen wandering
around the quad a few weeks ago?

Now, they’re the ones pointing to maps
and giving directions to all the confused
parents.

E Bookstore sales skyrocket. Dra-

matically. There’s never been
a better time to stock up on your ever-
expanding collection of Nalgenes, Vine-
yard Vines attire, and W&L gear. Mom
and Dad just so happen to be in town,
and oh look, they can pay for everything,

FRIEDMAN     

FOR LEXINGTON

Graduate- LexingtonCity Schools, Waddell,
  Lylburn Downing, Lexington High School, t
Hampden-Sydney College, BS
Work- 1988 topresent in financial services industry
Jacksonville Florida (5), Richmond, Virginia (4) and
j A Lexington, Virginia (15) T
Returned- to Lexington in 1997as a financial .
  advisor and currently an advisor
with CornerStone Bank _
Served on the Lexington City School Board
April 1999 to December 2006
On Lexington City Council 2007 to 2010.
On United Way Board
Serving- Lexington Presbyterian Church,
SJH Community FoundationBoard,
Kendal at Lexington Board, A

March of Dimes

*Education is the cornerstone and foundation
of our Community. Education and responsible
financial operations are the focus of my efforts
for a positive and successful city. As the son
of a school teacher,a professional in the
financial services industry, and my‘ public
and professional experience for 24 years.
I will represent you well on our City Council.

to

too - what a wonderful coincidence!
ﬂ Your room has never looked clean

er. Seriously. You could eat off
the floor.
ﬂ Coming soon this Saturday night:

Mom and Dad take on Traveller. 1'

PLEASE VOTE November 6
FRIEDMAN FOR LEXINGTON

Authorizedand paid for by Friedman For Council

 

M O N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

By Caroline Hamp

0 STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee constantly boasts
that it is possible to start a student orga-
nization on campus if it does not already
exist. Sounds pretty cool, right? But I
have always wondered if this is really
possible — starting from scratch must be
difﬁcult. and success might be hard to
come by. Students for St. Jude has put
an end to all my doubts. After a long
hiatus from campus, it was brought back
by a small group of students in the fall

‘ . of 2009. The organization was started

only three years ago by seniors Olivia
Kantwill, Molly Rountree, and Angela
Tuminno, and it has already made a big
impact.

The success Students for St. Jude has
achieved in these three short years is
unbelievable. Its main fundraiser of the
year is Up ‘Til Dawn, a national event
that takes place on college campuses all
across the country. The proceeds go to
beneﬁt St. Jude’s Children’s Hospital
in-Memphis, Tenn. In the past, partici-
pants have come together for an evening
to personally write, sign, and address
letters asking for donations to St. Jude.
Last year alone, the organization raised
over $l3,000 — double the amount of
money they had previously raised! Talk
about success.

But Students for St. Jude are not going
to just stop there. This.year, the goal is

' to double the amount donated - again - to

raise a grand total of $25,000. Instead
of letter—writing in ‘person, the event will
begin online. Throughout the week,
there will be tables set up in the Com-
mons where students can register online
for a “giving page.” Each participant
has their own page, which they can send
out to friends, family, and professors,
asking for online donations. Ifyou want
to contribute to this success story, stop
by the Commons this week to sign up!
It only takes a minute, and every little
bit counts.

Anyone who raises $200 or more is
automatically invited to the spectacular
Up ‘Til Dawn event, a completely free
evening of _fun, games, food, prizes, and
entertainment, hosted on Nov. 8. W&L’s
very own Jubilee, Washingtones, Beth

.Wellford, and KLAZICS will be per-

forming - and that’s just the beginning.
Tanya Diona and Russell Graham, pro-
fessional musicians from the NYC area,
will also be performing. “Their past gigs
include performing with the American
Idol house band, Beyonce, Stevie Won-
der, Jessica Simpson... and the list of fa-
mous people continues,” said Logistics,
Entertainment, and Decorations Chair
Angela Tuminno ’13. “The duo will be
debuting a song they wrote specifically
for our event, to be available for pur-
chase on iTunes and other online music
retailers, the proceeds from which will

 
. 7 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&|ife

Students prepare for Up ‘Til Dawn  

go entirely to St. Jude.”
You won‘t want to miss this successful
event.

Up ’Til Daw

donations for St. Jude’s Children’s Hos-
pital, you can be a part of all this excite-
By helping raise mentl For more information, check out

\ ,,, 
 ‘ ‘h? >-

and Lee Students for St. Jude.

3‘ 0 I’ 

Students personally write, address, and stamp letters asking for donations to raise money for St.
Jude’s Children’s Hospital at last year’s highly successful Up ‘Til Dawn event. ,

Matt Bass ‘15 

Name: Matt Bass
Hometown: Beaufort, SC

 Major: Biology

Year of Graduation: 2015’ I -

 Activities you are involved in on campus: Outing Club

Is your family coming up for Parents’ Weekend? Did they come
. up

55

'6

, take them to Sa|erno’s or Macado 5.

ast year?
Yes and yes.

What activities are your family going to take part in this Parents’
Weekend?

We want to go to the South Carolina parent—student rece tion that is put
on by the upperclassmen parents. We went last year, an its always nice
to hang out with students from the same area as you. I'm also planning to

I

What was your favorite part of Parents’ Weekend last year?

_ We all j_ust really enjoyed each others’ company, since we hadn't seen each

other since the beginning of the school year.
Are you asking your family to bring anything you forgot?

 I'm having them bring up my bike from home. Walking is overrated.

. What has been your favorite part of fall semester so far?

. ,0 ‘ Justebeing back to see and hang out with all my friends has been awe-
»  som .

0"}: ‘Favorite W&L Tradition?

I‘ I love the Speakin Tradition. It helps build that sense of community that
I , I'm sure every stu ent here enjoys.

0:’ ‘I7, V George or Bob?

Emily Utter ‘16

Name: Emily Utter
Hometown: Quogue, New York
Major: Business Administration
Year of Graduation: 2016

Are your parents coming down for Parents’ Weekend?

Just my mom will be coming down for Parents’ Weekend.

V V I What are you most looking forward to doing with your family?

Just spending some time together, and eating out instead of at D—Hall.

Any plans for the weekend? Any reservations in town?

I I My b_irthday is on Thursday
tha night, and then my mom wan

We all forget a few things mo

M U !Id'd tth'k't '
V ggriowi !he”‘v’laik'?o r'nyW§Sa?n°lUfli

so we have reservations at Southern Inn
ts to go to one of the concerts over
the weekend.

vjng to college. Are your parents

bringing up anything you missed?

to get so cold_here so fast, [and
be so much nicer with them on.

What has been your favorite part of fall semester so far?

I'm really enjoying meeting people from all over the world! '

Favorite class this term and why? 3»

That's a hard question to answer; I like them all a lot!

I have_n’t made it to_ Sweet Frog_ y
Sweet Things, and their ice cream IS

Sweet Frog or Sweet Things?

et —_ it's not nearly as convenient as
delicious, so it works out perfectly!

Bobby Lee, of course. I like his sense of humor!

E ;A

the F acebook page online at Washington

By Mariel Pearl

  

 

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI ~

MON DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

 

arts&|ife

 

 

By.Bai|ey Russell
3 TA F F w R lT E R

Ever wonder what’s going on at
campus while a party is going on in the
country? As soon as the clock hit twelve
last Friday, Public Safety was called to
remove a few students from a fraternity
house due to drinking on the roof of the
house. The officers joked that bad be-
havior came with the full moon.

“In eight years, I‘can count only
about ten really bad incidents,” said Of-
ﬁcer Ms. Kay Bostick. Bostick is a re-
tired social worker who moved to back
to Lexington, where she was born and
raised, to take care of her family.

“As long as 1 don’t interject my
level of maturity, I’m all right,” she
said regarding typical college behavior.
Public Safety gets called for episodes
as harmless as a mouse loose in the Sci-
ence Center or a broken electric breaker
from too many girls blow-drying their
hair at the same time, to something as
serious as transporting students from
the Health Center to the hospital.

Bostick stated that there is at least
one officer and one sergeant working
on every shift. She works a swing swift,
meaning that it varies from day to day.
Each scheduled shift gets split up into
an A-side and a B-side. The A-side
includes covering academic buildings,
while the B—side includes supervising
fraternity houses, sorority houses, and
any outlying buildings from campus.

According to Bostick, the officers
are encouraged to “SLR” — “stop, lis-
ten, respond.” In addition to doing this,
sergeants complete check points, but
mostly on mobile patrol. Public Safety
drives around at night to monitor the
buildings, making sure doors and gates
aren’t propped open. Oﬁicers do not pa-
trol Windfall or the Pole Houses, which
are under the jurisdiction of Rockbridge
County, but they will go to the country
if they get a call.

“You guys don’t like to carry your
swipes, which makes our job harder,”
said Bostick. Public Safety makes sure
the back doors to the sorority houses
especially are locked, and ofﬁcers often
come back to lock them for the night af-
ter Traveller has completed its last stop.
These doors, according to Bostick, are
a “hot spot,” a term used to describe the
areas she focuses most on.

Bostick’s knowledge of these “hot
spots” comes from years of experience,
which is evident in all that she does.
While patrolling the parking lots, for

Public Safety officers on a regular basis.

 

 

instance, she easily spotted an unregis-
tered car, one that she had been warned
twice about before. She has developed
such an eye that she knows exactly '
whose car should be where in the vicin-
ity.

“The city’s only a mile and two
quarters... you can only loop it so
much,” laughed Bostick. She usually
puts about 25 to 30 miles on the squad
car each night as she makes her rounds.
By staying close on course, Bostick
makes sure she is nearby in case of a
call. After all, those one or two minutes
can make_a huge difference in an out-

come. During her shift from 12 am to 8
am the next morning, she usually walks
around buildings three or four times to
stretch her legs and take a break from

’ sitting in the car. Occasionally, Bostick

even shoots a few hoops in the gym as
she passes through.

“Document, document, document...
if you don’t document, it didn’t hap-
pen,” said Bostick. She is familiar with
this principle from her prior experience
as a social worker. Even now, as she is

studying for her masters in criminal jus-

tice, this notion continues to ring true.
“Do yourjob to the best of your

The secret lives of Public Safety

Public Safety officers debrief in the office during a meeting to discuss the different routs and assignments for the night.
ficer takes turns with alternating shifts to make sure that all parts of campus are covered throughout the night.

ability, and don’t worry about the
politics behind it," Bostick said about
holding students accountable for the
Honor System. Ultimately, breaches are
up to the SJC. Sheadded, "I.don’t go
lookin[g] for trouble.” Instead, Bostick
strives to make sure that no property
has been vandalized. Each building is
checked inside and out at least twice a
night.

“The last thing we want is for
someone to get hurt,” she said. On big
party nights, Bostick watches Traveller
stops to make sure crowds of students
don’t overflow into the street. She un-

Scene on Call...

Senior Sergeant Larry Stuart directs trafﬁc and oversee vehicle registration in the student par

__ :_’_‘,'.::_  .,..—~.

   

can {if-

derstands that when Traveller arrives,
students’ only interest is getting onto
the bus, so she always watches for any
potential dangers that may arise during
the boarding chaos. . - < .

“You can lead a horse to water. but
you can’t make it drink,” she said. as 21‘ .
stumbling student declined the ridc,.l%o-
stick offered her. _ _

“This is thejob... thejob is out
here,” she added. No matter where -
students are at night- rest. or don"t rest
- assured that Public Safety is diligently
patrolling campus.

  

 

 

 

 

M ON DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

Leigh Dannhauser

 

I think we all know by now what happened to
Lance Armstrong recently. If not, here is a quick
recap. Earlier this month Annstrong was found
guilty of doping by the United States Anti-Doping
Agency. As a result he was disqualiﬁed from all of
his races since 1998 and more importantly stripped
of his seven Tour de France victories.

When stripping Armstrong of his titles, the Inter-
national Cycling Union and the Tour de France or-
ganization did not name any new champions. From
now on there will be a blank spot in the winners
section from 1998 to 2005.

Some may argue that it would only be fair to
move the second place winners for seven years
up to the winner’s circle. It would make sense be-
cause they would be the top ﬁnisher that qualiﬁed.
However, I believe that the races should remain
winner-less.

The main reason is that there is no ‘way to prove
that the runner-ups did not dope as well. Dick
Pound, former president of the World-Anti-Dop-
ing Agency, summed it up best when talking to
USA Today.

“It indicates that no one in the races was above
suspicion, which highlights the fact that dop-
ing was prevalent during the entire period,” said
Pound. '

How prevalent? Almost all of the top three ﬁn-
ishers in each of Armstrong’s victories have been
somehow connected with doping. Who knows
how far down the results list one would have to
go to ﬁnd the ﬁrst rider that was not connected.
And even though that person was not connected, it

is possible that

   

 

9 ' THE RING-TUM PHI ‘

Hailey Hartley

Lance
their team- Armstrong
mates who has a cloud
helped them along’ of uncertainty
the way were and and distrust sur-

did’ dope them-

 
  

rounding him. His

selves.

It would not be
fair to take the title
away from one man
for cheating just to

Lance Armstrong was stripped of his Tour de France
victories, but no cyclists were named the new victors.
Should the UCI name seven new champions? a
Leigh and Hailey square oﬁf. ’

seven career Tour
de France wins (in
row) were un-
precedented, he was
considered one of,

give it to someone
else who may have
done the very same thing.

The other reason is that it will be impossible to
just forget that Armstrong was the real winner for
all of those years. Armstrong will always be re-
membered, either by those who still believe his in-
nocence and think he was greatly wronged, or by
those who believe that he deserved to lose his titles
and think that he was a massive cheater that ruined
the integrity of the sport.

The lack of any winners will serve as a reminder
for all about the doping. When looking back at the
history, people will see the blank spots and know
about the doping controversy and how it negative-
ly affected the sport. Putting names in Armstrong’s
place will only lead people to forget about what
the UCI has called “the dark years of the sport.”
The UCI cannot afford to forget about this contro-
versy that has had such a great impact on the sport
of cycling and its reputation.

if not the greatest
cyclist in the histo-
ry of the sport. His cancer survival story ‘and
his Livestrong brand inspired countless men,
women, and children with cancer. But what
is to become of him now, and what legacy
will be left behind?

The evidence seems irrefutable; there are
over 20 people, ex-teammates, who are cor-
roborating the evidence that Armstrong was
using performance-enhancing drugs. Arm-
strong did the right thing by vacating his Tour
de France wins. Whether or not he did any-
thing wrong, the evidence seems to indicate
that he did not earn the wins fairly. But the
actions that the lnternational Cycling Union
(UCI) are taking seem questionable.

The UCI has announced that after vacat-
ing his position as Tour de France winner, the
position will remain vacated. No one will be

retroactively named a winner, and no scoring ‘

positions will be changed. They claim that
there is no ‘honor’ to reassigning winners.

Because they will not assign new winners
for the ’98-’05 Tours, the record books will
simply say “vacated.” Even though they say
“vacated,” people will automatically think
about Lance Armstrong. When people see
“vacated” they will think about Armstrong
and the cloud of uncertainty that not only is
tainting his legacy, but the legacy ofthe sport.

-This ruling by the UCI also seems to be a
bit‘ hypocritical. At the 2010 Tour, Alberto
Contador was on the podium as the winner.
But tests after the Tour showed that Contador
had tested positive for performance enhanc-
ing drugs. The UCI retroactively removed
Contador as winner and announced the sec-
ond place finisher, Andy Schleck, as the new
victor. The difference in time between the
win and positive test, or the fact that this is
Lance Armstrong, could be the reason for the
differences. The UCI should remain constant
in their rulings and reassign ’98-‘05’s win-
ners.

By assigning new winners for these Tours,
the UCI can help cycling get _over this scan-
dal, and move beyond Armstrong.

 

VBa11 falls against two ranked teams

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee volleyball
team will host Roanoke on Wednesday,

. Oct. 31 in the Old Dominion Athletic

Conference Tournament Quarterﬁnals.

Last Wednesday, the Generals ﬁn-
ished up regular conference play with a
win over Bridgewater. With the win the
Generals secured the second seed behind
Randolph-Macon in the ODAC Touma-
ment.

Last weekend, the Generals ltrav-'

eled to Atlanta, Ga. to play three non-
conference matches at the Emory Na-
tional Invitational Tournament. The
team ﬁnished the weekend with two
losses to third-ranked Wittenberg and
sixth-ranked Emory and a victory over
UMass-Boston. The losses did not affect
the Generals’ standing in the ODAC.
Wittenberg ended the Generals’
eight-match winning streak on Friday.
Lausberg and sophomore’ defensive
specialist" Kelly McManus each totaled

double digit digs in the match. Meleski
tallied three blocks and eight assists in
the match.

Later in the day the Generals faced
UMass-Boston. Boles led the Generals
offense with 23 kills. Meleski tallied 28
assists in the match and ﬁrst-year libero

Kasey Cannon led the defense with 21 

digs.

On Saturday W&L hit .190 in the 3-1
loss to Emory. The loss marked the last
regular season match for the Generals.
Boles was named to the all-toumament
team.

The ODAC tournament begins on 
Wednesday for the top eight teams in 

the conference. If the Generals win on

Wednesday, they will face the winner  g _V
of the Emory & Henry-Bridgewater   

match. The ODAC semiﬁnals and ﬁnals  j 4
on Saturday will be held at top-seeded — =  = 

Defensive Specialist Kelly McManus
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Randolph-Macon College.

 

Lee wins the

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

In front of a home crowd of over
2,000 people, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity was once again able to take it to
the Virginia Military Institute men’s la-
crosse team in the annual Lee-Jackson
Classic.

The Generals scored 11 unanswered
goals in the second quarter on their way

to taking the victory 19-8.

Senior Cooper Brown and sopho-
more Garrett Paglia led the_ Generals at
their home turf with ﬁve points each.
Paglia scored four goals, including the
ﬁrst goal less than two minutes into the
game. Brown added three goals of his
own.

Junior Dylan Florig also had a strong
performance for the Generals in goal,
blocking 13 shots and allowing just
seven goals in 56 minutes of play. Ad-
ditionally Florig was honored with the
Worrell-Fallon Memorial Award, the
award given to each team’s most valu-
able player.

Classic again

VMI was led by seniors Russell East
and Bernie Mowbray. Between them
they scored six of the Keydets’ eight
goals. East and Mowbray scored three
apiece.

In the net for the Keydets was senior
Matt Lindemann. Lindemann made 16
saves while playing the full 60 minutes.

The Classic was W&L’s only game
this fall. They start up again on Feb. 12
when they host Ferrum.

VMI hosts a three way scrimmage
this weekend to end their fall season.
They start their official season on Feb.
9 when they travel to Annapolis to face
Navy. ‘ ‘

Generals drown Yellowj aekets

By Hannah Howard
s TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee swim teams
had the upper hand in their meet on Sat-
urday, when they took down the men and
women swimmers of Randolph-Macon
College. The Yellowjackets put forth a
valiant effort, but their team — primarily
composed of freshmen and sophomores
— couldn’t keep up.

The W&L men collected 145 points
while the women put up 153 compared
to R—M’s 100 and 103 respectively. ‘-

W&L took ﬁrst place spots in the ma-
jority of the events and even swept the
top three spots in six races. The women
swept in the 200-yard free, 100-yard
breast, 200-yard breast, and 200-yard

ﬂy. The men held all three spots in the 

100-yard free and 100-yard breast.
Senior Rick Sykes swam the 50-yard
free in a time of 20.90, an NCAA B-cut
time. Other top spots went to seniors
Izzy Brassﬁeld for the 50-yard free and
Kelly Mae Ross for the 1000-yard free.
There were many notable perfor-
mances by ﬁrst-year swimmers, as well.
Stephanie Foster took ﬁrst in the 100-

 

~ La

yard back, 200-yard back, and 200-yard
medley relay along with sophomores
Caroline Hamp and Sarah Schaffer, and
fellow ﬁrst-year Hannah Melkun. First-
years Billy Fries, Matt Kiser, and Emma
Swabb also contributed to the Generals’

 

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

list ofﬁrst place ﬁnishes.

The Generals will travel to Charlotte,
N.C. on Nov. 2 to compete against ﬁve
other schools.

XC leads the pack

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee women’s cross
country took ﬁve of the top nine spots
on their way to taking the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship on
Saturday.

W&L ﬁnished 22 points ahead of sec-
ond place Bridgewater.

Bridgewater’s Olivia Mills and Kay-
lee Kubisiak took the ﬁrst two spots
but the Generals’ trio of seniors Lauren
Schultz and Molly Ortiz, and ﬁrst-year
Casey Mackintosh took.the third through
ﬁfth spots.

The Generals sealed the victory
when juniors Brandie Huffman and
Annelise Madison ﬁnished eighth and
ninth respectively rounding out the scor-
ing before the third Bridgewater runner
crossed the ﬁnish line._

Schultz, Ortiz, and Mackintosh were
named to ﬁrst-team all-ODAC for ﬁnish-
ing in the top ﬁve. .

Schultz made the all-ODAC ﬁrst
team during all four years of her W&L
career. Additionally, she was named the
ODAC/Fann Bureau Scholar-Athlete for
the second year in a row.

Huffman and Madison earned sec-
ond—team all-ODAC honors for ﬁnishing
in the top nine.

Hardware was received all around.
Coach Kris Hoey was named the ODAC
Coach of the Year following the meet.

The Generals now get a week off be-
fore travelling down to Atlanta for the
NCAA South/Southeast Regional race
on Nov. 10. e

 

 

 

10 ' THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers
1

Susan Slusser has beome the first woman to head up the
Baseball Writer's Association of America. Additionally,
Gaku Tashiro became the first Japanese member of the

board.

45

The number of unanswered points that the New England
Patriots scored against the St. Louis Rams in Sunday's
game in London. The Rams scored on the first drive of the
game before the Patriots shut them down and scored on

their own first five drives. The Patriots won the game 45-7.

6

The total number of turnovers by the Dallas Cowboys in their
game versus the New York Giants on Sunday._ The Giants

won 29-24 after blowing a 23-0 lead

17

The number of games in a row that the New England Patri-
ots have had at least 350 yards of total offense. This breaks

the old NFL record set by the St. Louis Rams in 1999-2000.

 

soapbox

“Maybe after the World Series, maybe when
Iget back home and sit in my house in a
chair, l’ll say, “You know what? I think I was
in the World Series.” But right now, lfeel
like I’m in a dream.”

1 San Francisco Giant's left fielder Gregor
Blanco about playing In the World Series.
Last year he was not even on a major
Jeague roster, from Sl.oom

“Don’t get me wrong. If you made me
choose, I'd rather watch RG3. He swerves
and curves as though his hips were
removed at birth. But he doesn't seem to
care much about football when he's doing
it. He's fumbled ﬁve times on runs already
this season, and two of them potentially
cost the Redskins games. Give me Luck,
who hasn’t fumbled on a run once.”

-RlckRelllyIn hlscolumforsporlslllusteatedtlllod, ‘QBRor
RG3?'. ltlooks lllo Relllysldeswlth Halley Hartlqrs plddng
oI'Andrewurcl(overRobertGrlfllnlllasthobel1arrooldo
quarlnrbacl(bacl(lnSepIlembor.

ondeok

Monday

Men's Soccer

Faculty-athletic mentor program upholds

ideals of Washington and Lee

By Pat McCarron

STAFF WRITER _
At the beginning of each men’s cross-coun-

try and track season, Professor Holt Merchant
of the history department and faculty-athletic
mentor program tells his athletes, “Here I am,
l’ll listen if you have a problem.” Considering
the multitude of deans, counselors and advi-
sors available around campus, Merchant ac-
knowledges the fact that “chances are, they’ll
go to others ﬁrst” with their problems.

But this is not a negative reﬂection on
Washington and Lee’s faculty-athletic men-
tor program. Beginning in 2008, W&L’s ath-
letic department was inspired by the College
Sports Project to begin the program. CSP’s
primary goal was “strengthening the bonds
between intercollegiate athletics and educa-
tional values,” and W&L saw the value in
this endeavor. In the case of Merchant, the
program has not necessarily caused his track
and cross-country protéges to line up outside
of his door in hopes for him to address their
every problem; again, this duty is primarily
designated to deans, counselors, and advisors.

However, this program largely represents
W&L’s values as a whole. In a Division I
school, Merchant realizes that “integration
[of students’ athletic and academic aspects of
life] would be a real problem,” since coaches
of such athletic programs “have no ﬂexibil-
ity whatever”. In an academically prestigious
school where Division III athletics are not as
demanding, a key realization among student-
athletes and coaches at W&L emerges: aca-

demics always come ﬁrst.

It is for this reason that integration be-
tween athletics and academics has not been
a problem at W&L, even before the athletic-
faculty mentor program was established four
years ago. In fact, this statement held true ﬁf-
ty-one years ago when Merchant ran track and
cross-country as a General. Therefore, while
in Merchant’s case the faculty-athletic mentor
program did not result in clamoring demand
for his mentoring outside of the students he
has already taught, it is still symbolic of the
Washington and Lee ideology.

Jeff Barnett, professor of Romance lan-
guages and mentor of the men’s baseball
team, describes the program as “a symbolic
bridge between the Colonnade-our academic
center-and the playing ﬁelds. I think it’s im-
portant for students to perceive how different
components of their identity come together
to form their greater academic life. In other
words, at a college like Washington and Lee,
academics shouldn’t be set aside as just one
more component - it’s the center of why we’re
here.”

For Merchant, the most valuable aspect of
the program has been the way it has brought
him closer to the students he teaches. He does
not merely attend every cross-country and
track meet; he ofﬁciates them, placing him in
the middle of the action. He is there to lend
his support while also playing a key role. He
also gives an extra effort to attend the games

Profesor Holt Merchant
Faculty-Athletic mentor

of his students outside of cross-country and
track alone, running the gamut from soccer to
football to‘ﬁeld hockey.

The bottom line is, no matter each student’s
background, the student body of W&L is here
chieﬂy for academic purposes. The athletic-
faculty advisor program acknowledges this
notion, while optimistically blurring the line
between two supposedly distinct aspects of-
student life: academic and athletic.

FH falls

By Shelby Flores
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Washington and Lee fell on Saturday in the
opening round of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

The game was originally scheduled to start
at l p.m. but only one official showed up to
the ﬁeld. The game did not start until 4:30
p.m. once a second official could be located.‘

Shenandoah controlled the ball for most
of the game as they defeated W&L 1-0. F irst-
year forward Kelani Bailey scored the only
goal in the game eight minutes into the second
half for the Hornets.

in first round

This was the last time that seniors Kirsten
Kyne and Chelsea Stevenson took the turf.
Kyne played the entire game in the net mak-
ing 13 saves. She ﬁnishes her career with
29] saves. Stevenson ﬁnishes her career af-
ter starting all her games and co-led the team
with four goals. .

Junior defender Lauren Boone led the
Generals with two shots and one on goal.
Sophomore midﬁelder Anna Kathryn Barnes
added one shot and one on goal.

The regular season ended for the Generals

on Wednesday when they lost to Bridgewater,
2-0. ,

Bridgewater controlled the ball for most of
the game and outshot W&L 2l-6. First-year
forward Taylor Prillaman scored both goals
for the Eagles.

After the losses the team ﬁnished with a
6-12 overall record. Shenandoah will advance
to the semiﬁnals of the ODAC Tournament
and play at Lynchburg on Tuesday, October
30.

Heinsohn leads Generals’ charge

Bysarah Ward
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee used an early lead to
defeat Catholic University on the Cardinals’
homecoming weekend on Saturday aftemoon
41-14. The Generals improved to 4-1 in con-
ference play and 6-2, overall.

The Generals scored touchdowns their ﬁrst
two possessions. Senior slotback Brett Murray
gained 84 yards on a pass from junior quar-
terback Nick Lombardo to give the Generals
a 7-0 lead with 6:44 left in the ﬁrst quarter.
Senior running back Luke Heinsohn ran for
23 yards into the end zone to make the score
l4-0 less than a minute into the second quarter.
Heinsohn broke the record for most rushing
yards on this drive.

The Cardinals threw a touchdown pass to
make the score 14-7, but the Generals coun-
tered with a 10 yard touchdown run from se-
nior running back Sasha Vandalov to bring to
score to 21-7 at halftime.

scored yet again on a 5-yard run to increase

the lead to 21. Murray added another six points

i A ‘ _ with a l-yard run to make the score 34-7 with

  

Runningback Lue Heinsohn
courtesy of W&L Sports Information

With 6:08 left in the third quarter, Vandolov

 

ten minutes left in the second half. The Gen-

erals responded to a late touchdown by the

Cardinals with a 6-yard run into the end zone
by ﬁrst-year running back Joseph Beninati to
score his ﬁrst touchdown of the season.

Washington‘and Lee totaled 537 yards in
the game, with Lombardo tallying a career-
high 168 yards. Murray gained 214 total
yards and Vandalov recorded 101 yards on the
ground. Senior safety Jake Pelton and senior
linebacker Jesse Jenkins led the defense for the
Generals. Pelton had eight tackles and an inter-
ception while Jenkins also had eight tackles as
well as a sack.

The Generals hope to break the ﬁrst place
tie in the ODAC next Saturday as they play
Hampden-Sydney at 1:00 pm in Lexington.

Generals fifth, only three points out

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s men’s cross country
team wasn’t able to come out on top of a race
for third at the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championships.

Lynchburg took the team title with almost
ease. They had a total of 28 points, with four
of their ﬁve scorers in the top ten. Bridgewa-
ter took second place with 57 points.

The battle for third place was much closer.
Just three points separated the teams that ﬁn-

Tuesday Wednesday

vs VaWes TBA

ished third through ﬁfth.

Roanoke was able to take third place over
Guilford by two, a team with that had three.
runners in the top ten. W&L took ﬁfth place
just one point behind Guilford. Roanoke ﬁn-
ished with 134 points, Guilford with 136, and
W&L with 137.

Junior Kane Thomas led the Generals,
crossing the line in 19th place.

Senior Tyler Gehrs was the next best ﬁn-

Thursday Friday

isher for W&L in 28th. First-year Levi War-
ring ﬁnished less than two seconds later tak-
ing 30th. Less than a minute later the Generals
scoring was completed. Sophomore Scott
Sudgen ﬁnished in 33rd place and ﬁrst-year
Blake Liebling ﬁnished in 38th place.

The Generals hit the trails again on Nov.
10 as they head to Atlanta for the NCAA
South/Southeast Regional race.

Saturday

 

Sunday

Volleyball

vs Roanoke TBA

vWomen’s Swimming

at Mecklenburg

at Mecklenburg

Men's Swimming

at Mecklenburg

at Mecklenburg

Riding

at Bridgewater lnv p

Football

vs Hampden-Sydney

Wrestling

at VT Open 9 am

  

 

R55
v. ll

- ..
$78-75$

   

V\ 5 . 8

Fattfhshiowmdemskstgle  

A&L / page 8

  Al.Lt:hcv~/orlol is a stage.
And Professor Dobin is makingthe most of it. You'd
never guess that Michael Stewartwas channeling

good old William.

opinions / page 4

~   WASHINGTON AND LEE 

' THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5,2012

Taking action
with Hurricane
Sandy

By Yejean Kim
s TA F F w R I T E R

In light of Hurricane Sandy, the state of Virginia
took several precautionary measures to ensure the
safety of its residents. Governor Bob McDonnell de-
elared a state of emergency, ordering all state agen-
cies to be closed on Oct. 29.

Several schools also cancelled classes, including
nearby James Madison University and the Univer-
sity of Virginia. While Washington and Lee did not
cancel classes because it “did not suffer a serious
event," according to Director of Public Safety Mike
Young.

Sotne precautionary measures were taken in case
of other problems such as power loss. Registration
was pushed back in anticipation of “potential Inter-
net disruptions and power outages" in a schoolwide
email sent Oct. 29, and Public Safety also performed
“readiness procedures” ensuring that they were pre-
pared for a large storm, according to Young. These
procedures involve monitoring weather reports and
taking proper precautionary measures. However, as
the storm turned north. it did not affect W&L as an-
ticipated.

Young said that there was a “danger ofpower loss,”
but as some buildings have “generators or other
emergency power” this was not seen as constituting
an emergency. An emergency management plan is
published on the University website, and is updated
annually after "tabletop discussions” between an
emergency management team according to Assistant
Director of Public Safety Steve Tomlinson.

In case of a prolonged power outage, which was
the biggest threat expected from Hurricane Sandy.
this plan states that students should gather in the El-
rod University Commons as it has an “uninterrupt-
ible emergency power supply.”

As advice to students in light of future inclement
weather, Director Young advised: “Stay calm, fol-
low directions when given them, and remain close
to your residences so that you can be accounted for
should it be necessary to ﬁnd you. We will have
some winter weather this year that may cause some
school cancellations or delays. Just stay close to your
electronic devices and you will have the best oppor-
tunity to know what is going on. We provide a lot of
information electronically.“

Updates on inclement weather are provided both
on the University website, via the campus emergen-
cy hotline. and on WLUR 91.5, W&L’s radio station.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 8

Registration gets complicated

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

Due to the threat of severe weather
last week, Washington and Lee ad-
ministration made the decision to
postpone registration for winter term
courses. Course registration will
take place this week, beginning to-

In order to simplify the registration
process, Locy encourages her advi-
sees to complete their FDR require-
ments as well as their tnajor require-
ments as soon as possible.

“If you wait until your senior year

“It can be really tough to Coordinate schedules be-

cause there are a ﬁnite number of hours in the day

and there are a ﬁnite number offaculty members,

and there are going to be conflicts ”

Toni Locy, Journalism professor

morrow and continuing through Nov.
9, according to Scott Dittman of the
University Registrar’s Office.

Seniors will’ register on Tuesday,
juniors on Wednesday, sophomores
on Thursday and ﬁrst-years will coin-
plete course registration on Friday.
Registration times will remain the
same. beginning at 7 a.m. on each re-
spective date.

“Our concern was that there would
be power outages, no Internet access
or Internet interruptions, especially
for students who live out in the coun-
ty,” said Dittman. "Their temptation
might be to drive somewhere to get
an Internet connection and with the
possibility of high water, we didn’t
want to fool with any ofthat."

When it comes to course registra-
tion, accessing the Internet at the ex-
act time registration begins is some-
times only halfofthe battle. Students
at W&L can experience scheduling
conﬂicts, where two courses that they
are interested in meet at the same time
or overlapping times. According to
Reynolds Professor of Legal Report-
ing Toni Locy, scheduling conﬁicts
happen frequently with her advisees.

“It can be really tough to coordi-
nate schedules because there are a
ﬁnite number ofhours in the day and
there are a ﬁnite number of faculty
members, and there are going to be
conflicts,” Locy said. “At times it‘s a
logistical nightmare.”

to take a course you need, you are
asking for trouble." said Locy. “Un-
fortunately, that's what some students
do. and that”:; why students panic.”

In order to minimize scheduling dif-
Iiculty and determine the number of
sections to offer for a certain class,
Dittman explained that the Registrar
()tI’ice examines the history of en-

rollmcnt in particular courses. The

()fﬁcc also communicates withother
departments that indicate how many
students are of a certain major and
have to take a certain class required
to fulfill their degree.

When conllicts are unavoidable, the
1., willing to work with stu-
dents to figure out the best possible
solution. According to both Dittman
and Locy, students will discuss with
their professor the possibility ofleav—
ing one class early and arriving a few
minutes late to the subsequent class.

In special cases, students have the
option of taking a directed individual
study of a course. According to Ditt-
man, an example of such a situation
occurred this year when a student de-
clared a second major in the middle
of the fall term. One of the courses
required for that major was being
taught for the last time during the fall
term and the student could not coor-
dinate the course around her other
classes. She is instead working with
faculty to plan an independent study
for the winter term.

i‘ .i.
.;.\..iit\

According to Dittman, a directed
individual study can be designed in
several ways and is up to the faculty
member working with the student.

“Sometimes it involves indepen-
dent reading and discussion, a big
paper, or meeting with the professor
three times a week,” Dittman said.

The approach of each new term
brings changes and additions to the
course catalog. According to Dit-
tman, there is a tab on the W&L
course catalog website where stu-
dents can view a list of every catalog
revision for the academic year. The
page also lists deleted courses and
changes made to degree and major
requirements and can be accessed at
catalog.wlu.edu.

For major requirement changes,
Dittman noted that changes only ap-
ply to students who declare their
major under that year’s catalog. If

the changes result in a course being
deleted, the University must make ac-
commodations for the students who
declared their major under the previ-

ous catalog.

“If we delete a course, we have to
substitute it with another one and al-
low it to go towards your major re-
quirements,” Dittman said.

The list for spring term courses will
also be available for students to re-
view in the coming days. According
to Dittman, the most updated version
of the spring term course offerings
will be released this week.

Ditttnan said that he ﬁnds it dis-
appointing when students simply
choose a spring term course by word
of mouth because it limits them from
exploring the many different options
available.

“I think the problem is that people
hear this reputation of a course or a
faculty member and immediately
go to tunnel vision without looking
around at all the cool, new courses,”
Dittman said.

JULIANNA SATTERLY / EIC

It all comes down to Tuesday’s vote

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

After months of watching debates,
campaign advertisements and attending
last year’s Mock Convention, registered
voters will ﬁnally have the chance to
vote in the Presidential election on Tues-
day.

For those students who don’t know

where to vote, the precinct for Washing-
ton and Lee students is in the Piovano
Building at 350 Spotswood Drive (lo-
cated near Stonewall Jackson Hospital)
and is open tomorrow from 6 a.m. until
7 p.m. The voting precinct urges all stu-
dents to “bring everything you got” in

terms ofvoter registration cards, a valid
driver’s license and college ID cards.
There will be many different items on
the ballot aside from the all-important
Presidential election, including: a U.S.
Senate race, a U.S. House of Represen-
tatives race, a Lexington City Council

W&L is getting ready for the election on Tuesday. Students registered to vote in Lexington can vote
from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. There will be an Election Watch Party at the Hillel House at 8 p.m. on Tuesday.

race, the mayoral race and two separate
Virginia Constitution Amendments.

In the Senate race, Republican incum-
bent George Allen is running against
Democratic challenger Tim Kaine.

Washington and Lee Law graduate
Bob Goodlatte is the Republican incum-
bent candidate running against Andy
Schmookler for the 6th District of Vir-
ginia’s House seat.

In Lexington, Marylin Alexander,
Frank Friedman, Camille Miller and
John Morman are running for city coun-

of voting this week. “It is extremely im-
pottant that students vote, regardless of
their affiliation,” said Luther. “Democ-
racy cannot function without popular
participation.”

Another point of emphasis for Luther
was how important it is for young col-
lege students to vote.

“Studies show that if citizens are en-
gaged at a younger age in the process
they are more likely to continue that
trend into adulthood. If there is only one
thing from this past term I hope it’s that

“It is extremely important that students vote, re-

gardless of their aﬁiliation, ” sald Luther. “Democ-

racy can not function without popular participa-

1

tion. ’

Lex Luther, College Republicans President

cil. Mimi Elrod is facing off against
Mary P. Harvey-Halseth in the Mayoral
Election.

The two Virginia Constitutional
Amendments are Question I, which
would prohibit local governments from
using eminent domain for economic de-
velopment and job creation and require
the seizure of land to be used strictly as
public areas. Question 2 would allow the
General Assembly to delay its veto ses-
sion by up to a week to avoid sessions
interfering with events like government
or religious holidays.

Lex Luther, President of the College
Republicans, emphasized the importance

we have helped people become engaged
in the process and they will continue to
be so after W&L,” said Luther.

When asked about the state of the
election, and the prospects of Governor
Romney against President Obama, Lu-
ther said, “Romney is the clear under-
dog.”

For students interested in watching the

results of Election Night on Tuesday‘

night, stop by the Hillel House from 8
p.m. to 12 a.m., where the College Re-
publicans and College Democrats will
be broadcasting election results live as
well as selling Chick—ﬁl-A.

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
1!‘/AS!-!_l1‘JGTC-1\ Si LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

NOV 0 6 2012

/

  

 

Breaking down heal

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER _

The Congressional Budget Office has
projected $ 1 . 1 7 trillion of spending on the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act between 2012 and 2013, said Profes-
sor Timothy Jost, Washington and Lee
Professor of Law, as part of the PPACA
panel discussion on Monday.

The panel, which consisted of three fac-
ulty members, representatives from Col-
lege Democrats and Republicans, and
a Registered Nurse from the Stonewall
Jackson Hospital, sought to clarify, dis-
cuss, and formally debate the provisions
of the PPACA, also known as Obamacare.

Jost began the discussion by clarify-
ing certain aspects of the Act. He said
that under the PPACA, Medicaid will be
expanded to all Americans under 138%
of the poverty line—~not just widows and
orphans as before—with discretion by the
states. However, he said he thought that
most states would end up adopting the
policy for personal beneﬁt.

And regarding the individual mandate,
Dr. Harlan Beckley, the Director of the
Shepherd Poverty Program at W&L, clari-
ﬁed that although people will not have to
purchase healthcare, they will have to pay
a penalty ifthey do not.

According to Jost, some of the other ex-
penses that will be undertaken under the
PPACA include $11 billion for community
health centers, $250 million for pregnant
and parenting teen programs, $200 million
for school-based health centers, $5 billion
for expanding the National Health Ser-
vices Core, and $1.5 billion in grants for
maternal infant and early childhood home
visiting programs. There will also be ex-
tensive reforms of Indian Health Services.

The audience seemed primarily con-
cerned with this realm of costs. Questions

said that the goal of the PPACA is to make
care more affordable to everyone in the
long-term.

But despite costs, the overall attitudes of
the panel towards the PPACA, were over-
archingly positive.

“I think there are positive mental health
effects,” said Timothy Diette, Professor of
Economics at W&L, citing the Colorado
theater shootings this summer and how a
prime concern for those harmed, strangely
enough, was insurance coverage. Diette
explained that not having to worry about
personal healthcare can help reduce stress
for individuals, and that the PPACA could
facilitate the mitigation of this stress.

The economist even thought that extend-
ing, coverage would positively affect the
economy on the macro scale.

“A lot of people are concerned with ex-
tending coverage solely because it increas-
es productivity, it reduces poverty, in the
long run it reduces welfare rolls, and in-
creases educational outcome,” said Diette.

Professor Beckley also thought the PPA-
CA was an important move and looked
at it from what he described as a “moral”
perspective.

“[Healthcare] is not a commodity,” said
Beckley, saying that healthcare should not
be compared to clothing and other like en-
tities. “Healthcare, like education, is nec-
essary for equal opportunity.”

Todd Smith, President of the College
Democrats, agreed with Beckley.

“I think we have a moral imperative
to address this problem for the working
poor,” said Smith.

However, Lex Luther, President of the
College Republicans, disagreed on the
beneﬁciality ofthe act.

“I am ﬁghting an uphill battle here,” he

 

tre facts

age, and they will be forced into PPACA
exchanges.

Jost responded with a semi-rebuttal, cit-
ing different statistics from the CBO which
in fact projected an increase of 3 million
people who will be able to get health in-
surance coverage from their employers.
He said that employers will have the rea-
son they have now for offering health in-
surance: a more productive workforce and
huge tax beneﬁts. The largest tax subsidy
in our country, he said, is for employee-
related health insurance.

The panel discussion also shed light on a
local perspective on the Act with the voice
of Robert Capiro, an RN of Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. Capiro described the
need for reforms for the local healthcare
system.

Capiro said that there is only one physi-
cian in Rockbridge County that will take
new Medicare patients.

“65-70 percent ofthe people at our facili-

ties at any one time are Medicare patients,” _

he said, explaining that many have chronic
conditions, or are elderly. He described the
complications ofthese people going home
in confusion after treatment, unable to take
care of themselves, and getting sent back
to the hospital.

He praised the PPACA because it in-
cludes provisions to keep people from
needing to come back to the hospital and
also gives money to help create electronic
records.

In addition, Capiro said that federal

Medicare regulations help his hospital by

mandating only 25 patients in at time, with

the average stay lasting less than four days.
As for the future for healthcare quality,

Capiro was positive. '

“As there are more patients who have the

I: ~ — - t

A panel of W&L professors, students, and a registeredinurse from the Stonewall Jackson Hospital debate

Obamacare.

were raised as to where funding would
come from, as well as whether healthcare
could really be more affordable under the
PPACA.

Jost explained that much of the funding
would come from cutting Medicare costs,
but that the federal budget deﬁcit would
still increase by $109 billion.

“We aren’t going to reduce healthcare
costs,” J ost said regarding affordability.
“That’s not a realistic goal.” However, he

saidjokingly following the other panelists.

Luther cited a CBO projection suggest-
ing that employers would drop 11 million
employees from coverage. He then pointed
to studies from McKenzie, Deloit, and the
Heritage foundation that suggested a num-
ber closer to the 20 million mark would be
dropped from employee beneﬁt programs.
Lex said that even those with healthcare
right now might be forced into Obamacare
because their employer will drop cover-

By Douglas McNiel
STAFF WRITER

Professor Nathan.Feldman gave his in-
augural lecture for his Rupert and Lillian
Radford professorship on Thursday. The
lecture was titled “Beauty and Surprise
in Mathematics.”

Professor Feldman began his career at
Washington and Lee University in 1999.
“His research is in functional analysis,
complex analysis and operator theory,”
according to a W&L News update.
“Much of his work has focused on the
chaotic dynamics of linear operators and
matrices.”

Besides teaching a wide variety of
math classes, Feldman also helps stu-
dents with summer research. At the be-
ginning of the lecture, he said that he

Bringig

Radford professorship.

    

Professor Nathan Feldman discusses his Rupert and Lillian

ability to be insured, even ifit is Medicaid,

and with some of the aspects of the Afford-
able Care Act, reimbursement will indeed
be better to the physician,” he said. “One
would hope that more physicians in the
community would rise to the occasion.”

Jost explainedthat while there are pro-
visions in the PPACA to improve quality,
he was unsure about their ability to be ef-
fective. However, he hopes the long-terrn
effect on quality will be beneﬁcial.

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Holy Sepulchre in danger of closing ,

‘ The popular pilgrimage site, Church of the Holy Sepulchre, is in danger of
closing its doors as a result of a dispute with a water company. Many church of-
ﬁcials believe the church is exempt from paying water bills. However, the Israeli
company is now demanding payment. The church’s bank accounts were frozen
two years ago. Mediation attempts are still going on between the two groups.

Greek journalist faces charges for
publishing probable tax evaders

Kostas Vaxevanis, a Greek journalist, faced serious charges for publishing
a list of inﬂuential citizens who are probable tax evaders. He was arrested last
Sunday — an action that suggests press freedom is waning. However, he was
acquitted late Thursday night in front of an exuberant crowd.

Egyptian policemen met with
gunfire

Egyptian policemen in the el-Arish region of the Sinai Peninsula were met
with gunﬁre on Saturday morning. The shooters were most likely Islamic ﬁght-
ers that have been hunted by Egyptian police recently. At least three policemen
were pronounced dead after the shooting along with one wounded. Ofﬁcials in
the country are working to bring peace to the region.

China implements new organ donor
policy

The Chinese govemment is implementing a new system for organ" donation
in the country. The new system will be in place early next year. This allows for
less dependence on organs harvested from executed prisoners. The old system
did not require consent of the executed or of their family. This enraged many
human rights groups who claimed that it was highly unethical.

Syrian rebels attempt “to liberate
Taftanaz airbase” 1

Rebels in Syria mounted a major attack on a large air force base. The group
is calling the attack an attempt “to liberate Taftanaz airbase.” The assault started
the night before an important meeting in Qatar to discuss the nation’s plans for
opposition. The attacks seem to be a response to the military air strikes earlier
last week. The destruction of the air base is evidence of the rebels’ gains in
northern Syria. ,~

Train derailing in Australia leads to
one death and several injuries

A train derailed in Australia on Saturday. The accident happened when the
back trailer of a truck attempting to cross was hit by the train. The driver of the
truck was unharmed, but it took over an hour to free the train driver. He sus-
tained serious injuries. Almost a dozen other train passengers received minor
injuries. One man was pronounced dead on the scene.

Demonstration in Bahrain against
ban on public gatherings

Several demonstrations took place in Bahrain on Friday. People are enraged
by the government ban on public gatherings and thus came together in peaceful
protests. A few hundred people marched across the country. The Bahraini police
ﬁred tear gas into the crowds to stop the protesters. Many arrests followed, in-
cluding that of the head of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights. ’

 

loved the tradition that surrounds W&L,
he mentioned the University Chamber
Singers and graduation as two of his fa-
vorite W&L traditions.

Feldman began his talk by relating
math to the two most inﬂuential men in
the history of the University—George
Washington and Robert E Lee. He point-
ed out that both men loved the study of
mathematics. Lee was even an Assistant
Professor of Mathematics during his ten-
ure at West Point, according to Feldman.

After his brief historical discussion,
Feldman began to show several differ-
ent topics in math that inspire beauty and
surprise. He discussed the golden ratio, a cine.

Feldman also used the Pythagorean

ics. F eldman said that there are over 500
different proofs that prove the validity
of the theorem, including one created by
. former U.S. president James Garﬁeld.
Toward the end of his presentation,
F eldman brought up the extremely rel-
evant topic of math in elections. He said
that a candidate only needs .000006 per-
cent of the popular vote to win an ‘elec-
tion. «
Other topics included in the lecture
were the ‘math involved in skateboarding
and probability and statistics in medi-

number that is seen in many works of art.

theorem in his discussion of mathemat-»

gh-

 

   

  Parents

     
  
 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

GWS

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Parents were at the center of campus
activities this weekend at Washington
and Lee. .

Parents and families of current students
visited campus to sit in on classes, attend
musical concerts and go to the football
game at W&L’s annual Parents Week-
end.

The weekend officially began as par-
ents and relatives joined students in the
classroom on Friday. Parents also had the
opportunity to see students demonstrate
physics phenomena at a Physics Fest in
the Science Center, Robert E. Lee Re-
search Scholars present posters on their
summer research projects in Leybum Li-
brary, and senior English majors discuss
their capstone projects in Payne Hall.‘

Various academic departments invited
students and families to meet with fac-
ulty.

In Stackhouse Theater on Friday, Stu-
dent Affairs staff and sorority and fra-
ternity leaders answered questions about
Greek Life.

Also in Stackhouse Theater, Kate
Chenery Tweedy and Leeanne Meadows
Ladin discussed their new book, “Sec-

retariat’s Meadow: The Land, the Fam-
ily, the Legend,” a pictorial history of
Secretariat, the Triple Crown champion
racehorse.

On Friday night, Cantatrici, the Men’s
Glee Club, and the W&L Chamber Sing-
ers performed in the Parents and Fam-
ily Weekend Choral Concert in Wilson
Hall.

On Saturday, the football team defeat-
ed Hampden-Sydney College, 45-42, at
Wilson Field.

Other attractions included Applied
Music Recitals in the Concert Hall in
Wilson Hall and an A Cappella Concert,
including General Admission, JubiLee,
Southern Comfort, and the Washing-
tones. The University Wind Ensemble
also gave a concert at Wilson Hall.

Some special exhibits took place over
the weekend.

In the Lykes Atrium in Wilson Hall,
recreated photographs’ of Rockbridge
County, taken by students from a 2012
Spring Term class, were displayed
alongside the original photographs taken
by Michael Miley in the 1890s and early
1900s. The exhibit is called “Then &

Parents got a weekend look into the life of a general in Lexington this past wekend.

Now: Photographs after Michael Miley.”

The McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp

4 r r ..

W&L parents and families have the oppornity to try out the University dining facilities durin Parents Weekend.

get a peek at Lex Life

 

It .
:8

PHOTO COURTESY OF WLU.EDU

Hall showed paintings by Ohio Wes-
leyan University professor Frank Hobbs,
who once taught drawing at W&L. The
exhibit, which runs through December,
presents his paintings of the Ohio and
Virginia landscapes and ﬁgure paintings

from his time in Italy.

In the Reeves Center on Friday, ceram-
ics collections from America, Europe

, and Asia were displayed to the general

:U_ public. The collections, most of which

 

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF WLU.EDU

5‘ are Chinese export porcelain, feature
, some ceramics that are more than 4,000
years old.

The Staniar Gallery in Wilson Hall

‘ showcased the work of Brent Green, a,

storyteller, visual artist, and ﬁlmmaker

A known for his “DIY folk-punk” animat-
T ed ﬁlms.

His films have been shown at
the J. Paul Getty Museum ofArt in Los
Angeles and the Museum of Modern Art
in New York.

Leybum Library held its Annual Book
Sale from Friday to Sunday.

Next year, Parents and Family Week-
end will occur about a month earlier,
from Oct. 4 through Oct. 6.

ED 1 ﬂexible in the wake of

By Hamlet Fort
5 TA F F w R IT E R

In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, the
Washington and Lee Admissions Ofﬁce
extended the Early Decision application
deadline, allowing applicants affected by
the storm an extra week or so to submit
their applications. Nov. l marked the
formal deadline for the first round of ED
applications. '

Early Decision is an important and
widely-used method of applying to col-
leges, especially at W&L, where a large
percentage of the school’s applicants
are positive W&L is their number one
choice. From the Class of 2016, 48 per-
cent were admitted through ED - a num-

ber consistent with previous years, ac-
cording to Senior Associate Director of
Admissions Erin Hutchinson.

ED only differs from Regular Decision

 

applications in that the results are bind-
ing. Ifaccepted, the applicant will enroll.
Hutchinson says this is the only major
difference between ED and Regular De-

spatial 

 thefrED?l  e _
      Hurricane Sandy

 

 

cision applicants as well.

“The only way that ED applicants differ
from Regular Decision applicants in any
meaningful way is in their burning desire
to be Generals,” said Hutchinson. “With
regard to their academic credentials and
their extra-curricular accomplishments,
they are virtually indistinguishable from
their Regular Decision peers.”

For the Admissions Ofﬁce, accepting
students from Early Decision is as much
of the part of the process of building a
ﬁrst-year class as Regular Decision.
There is no distinction between the type
of applicants in the two pools, except for

Sandy

the deadline.

“Our goal is always to recruit a well-
rounded class, featuring students who
excel in different academic and extra-
curricular areas and who represent
a broad range of geographic, socio-
economic, religious, and ethnic back-
grounds,” said Hutchinson.

The ED deadline of Nov. l is the ﬁrst
of the Admissions season’s deadlines,
but the Admissions Ofﬁce will continue
to receive applications through the week
following for applicants in regions af-
fected by Hurricane Sandy.

The second deadline is Jan. 1, 2013.

Sunday brunches become weekly event

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF warren

Oct. 21 marked the first of the upper-
classmen Sunday brunches sponsored by
the Executive Committee. From ll a.m.
to l p.m., many upperclassmen students
came together for the inaugural event.

The brunch is a joint project with the
EC, originating with the Student Health
Committee. The Student Health Com-
mittee came up with the brunch as part
of an initiative to bring both male and

female students together across campus
outside of the school setting.

The brunch took place in Evans Dining
Hall, and had a great turnout of students

for its ﬁrst event. It was open to sopho-_

mores, juniors and seniors, and offers
upperclass students a wide range of food
options, for a reasonable price of ﬁve
dollars per person.

The EC has worked very hard to

subsidize

costs in a way to offer a high quality
meal for a very affordable price. Stu-
dents were able to pay with cash, Food
Flex, and General Debit for the ﬁrst
brunch. For future events, students
should also have the option to swipe
their brunch home.

The EC hopes to make the brunch a
more regular event with continued suc-
cess. The idea of the brunch was to offer
students an opportunity to eat together in
a different setting outside of the typical
social scene.

When asked about the brunch, sopho-

more EC representative Daniel
Raubolt explained, “We wanted

to give upperclassmen an-
other place to eat on the
weekend, as it can be dif-
ﬁcult for older students

to ﬁnd easy and afford-

able dining options.”

Raubolt mentioned

that he was impressed

by the turnout, and was

, excited for the upcoming

brunches.

The success of the begin-
ning brunches may start a tradi-
tion to continue on through the rest

of the year. There was no brunch this
past week due to Parents Weekend, but
there are sure to be many more to come.

Eezée 'e at  

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am — 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm 4 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu online

 Twitter @berkysfood

 Find us on Face book

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

opinions

 

 

Robbing Uncle Sam: social insecurity

‘ By Ben Ruffle

GUEST WRITER

 ._,..-___,...,__..__,   ..

K

5
; Pr 
.

I-4:  rt-‘W-/.n-«I In
«Ill-Ill ME

 .-.- ..-. .1-1...:

       
      

 

Ida May Fuller received the ﬁrst
monthly Social Security beneﬁt check
ever written on January 31, 1940. Over
the preceding three years, Mrs. Full-
er paid into the system payroll taxes
amounting to $24.75. After she retired,
the Social Security Administration sent
her a check every month until she died,
at the age of 100, in 1975. By the time
of her death, Mrs. Fuller had collected
$22,888.92 from the federal government,
representing a return rate of 92,480 per-
cent on her investment.

The problems posed by entitlement
spending are not at the forefront of the
average young voter’s mind. Yet en-
titlement spending represents one of the
greatest crises in American politics to-
day. Without reform, young people will
have the opposite experience of Mrs.
Fuller with our entitlement programs:
they will pay large amounts in taxes
throughout their working lives, then
when they retire they will receive little
to nothing in return.

Voters face a clear choice on Novem-
ber 6. They can either accept President
Obama’s status quo, mixed in with the
wrong approach toward reform, or con-
sider Governor Romney’s moderate and
workable plan to solve the entitlement
crisis. There is much disinfonnation out
there—~a key stratagem of the Obama
campaign appears to be asserting that
Romney and his running mate Paul Ryan
would personally escort our nation’s
grandmothers off a precipice—but noth-
ing disinfects like sunshine.

There are three principal entitlement
programs: Social Security, designed to
supply supplementary income for the re-
tired, the disabled, and their dependents;
Medicare, crafted to provide healthcare

support for the elderly; and Medicaid,
a healthcare program that aims to assist
the poor. The worst kept secret in Wash-
ington is that all three are unsustainable.
Without reform, these three programs
will either go bankrupt or continue to
absorb higher and higher proportions of
the federal budget, crowding out spend-
ing on education, infrastructure, defense,
and eventually, the rest of the economy.

If nothing changes, young people,
and even adults in their 30s and 40s, will
have serious reason to question whether
the healthcare and Social Security that
they have been promised will be there
when they need them.

There is bipartisan acknowledgement
that our entitlement programs need ﬁx-
ing. As President Obama himself said in
2008, “What we have done is kick this
can down the road. We’re now at the end
of the road, and we’re not in a position to
kick it any further.”

Obama’s record in ofﬁce, however,
has not lived up to his rhetoric. The
president ignored his own national com-
mission on ﬁscal reform, known as the
Simpson-Bowles Commission after its
bipartisan chairmen, when it offered an
equitable proposal for entitlement re-
form. With Obamacare, the president
expanded the rolls of Medicaid, dump-
ing as many as l8 million people on the
over-extended program by 2016. The
law also took $716 billion away from
payments owed to healthcare provid-
ers of Medicare patients, a cut that will
cause a reduction in the service given
to seniors. Obama has at this point for-
warded no concrete plan to return Med-
icaid or Social Security to solvency.

The only nod toward cost control that
Obama has offered is the Independent
Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), an
entity created by Obamacare. IPAB is
comprised of I5 unelected bureaucrats,
and is tasked with restraining the costs
of Medicare. This board has the power
to cut the amount of money the govem-
ment pays to doctors and hospitals that
care for those on Medicare. Despite the
administration’s denials, this cost cutting

would take the form of fewer services for
the elderly, a backdoor path to rationing.
Democrats want people to trust that po-
litical appointees in Washington are wise
enough to control the healthcare costs of
seniors in a fair way. But there is a better
choice than ceding such responsibility to
an unelected body.

Governor Romney has put forth a
practical plan to save our entitlement
programs. First and foremost, Romney

would repeal Obamacare, restoring the ~

$716 billion to Medicare and eliminat-
ing IPAB. Secondly, for Medicare, Rom-
ney would implement a premium sup-
port system for those who are currently
younger than 55. The premium support
system, which has a long bipartisan
pedigree, would grant future seniors
a choice in their healthcare plan. The
government would give seniors a ﬁxed-
amount beneﬁt to choose an insurance
plan. They would then be able to pick a
less expensive plan, and receive money
back from the government, or go with
a more expensive plan, and pay a little
extra. It is important to stress that all of
these plans would by law be required to

offer coverage at least comparable to

present-day beneﬁts.

For Medicaid, Romney would block I

grant the program, which means that the
federal government would give states
the money that it already spends on
Medicaid. This change would give states
the ﬂexibility and incentive to experi-
ment with the program to make it more
efﬁcient, effective, and sustainable.
Block granting has proven successful in
the past—President Clinton signed off
on welfare reform in 1996 that involved
giving control of the program to the
states—an‘d will help secure healthcare
for the neediest for years to come.
Finally, for Social Security, Rom-

ney proposes to raise the eligibility age I‘

gradually to keep in line with increas-
ing longevity. He would also institute
means-testing for beneﬁts, so that more
afﬂuent seniors, who do not need addi-
tional retirement income, would receive
less. Such reforms are reasonable and

 

fair; they would strengthen Social Se-
curity and would ensure that it remains
strong for generations to come.
Romney’s decision to put forward
speciﬁc plans for entitlement reform is
politically perilous. Both parties have
used “Mediscare” tactics—making vot-
ers fearful of such changes to entitlement
programseto great effect in the past.
But the time for such fear mongering
is long past. Demographics, and arith-

metic, will ensure that these entitlement
programs will soon have to change. The
choice in November is clear: either to
vote Romney, and accept some reforms
to guarantee the survival of these en-
titlements, or side with Obama, and put
your faith in rhetoric and your health in
the hands of unelected bureaucrats. But
whatever your choice, younger voters
should make no mistake: there will be no
lda May F ullers in our generation.

 

President Barack Obama speaks at a campaign event at Mentor High
School, Saturday, Nov. 3, 2012, in Mentor, Ohio, before traveling to Mil-
waukee for another Campaign event. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)

WASHINGTON AND In UNIVERSITY

THE RING-

TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUESTWRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

IULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY'
.IP BEALL

 

Crouching NASA, hidden Dragon

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

,.

CYNTHIA LAM .

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE IAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEY RUSSELL
YATES WILBURN
PROF. HANK DOBIN
BEN RUFFLE
KRISTINA SEON
TODD SMITH-
SCHOENWALDER
DAVID ZEKAN

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMA'S

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.'edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 -9 . Today, the world is a lot smaller than
‘A it wasza hundred years ago. London, once

afar-oﬁ‘ land to native Virginians, isonly
. about nine hours away by plane. A train
 ride from Staunton to New York. is‘ only
‘ half a .day’s journey.;And.-if you’re reading
I this paper over your morning cup of cof-

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

I there’s no traffic on the highway. In fact,
you could probably travel to anywhere
within the Eaith’s atmosphere in twenty
 four hours or less.

And, coming soon, you’ll be able to
travel even further than that. '
Space Exploration Technologies Cor-
' oration (SpaceX) has begun to plan for
the day when human beings could buy
tickets to the moon as easily as they might
buy tickets to France. Founded in 2002 by
Elon Musk, co-founder of Tesla Motors,
SpaceX has worked closely with NASA
for years, anticipating the historical launch
which would project one of their shuttles,
called the Dragon, to the International

 
 

  
 

   
 

__ October 7, 2012, making SpaceX the
 world’s ﬁrst privately-owned company to
‘- send cargo to the I SS.

 

, fee, you could be in Canada for dinner if L‘

Space Station. That launch happened on’

SpaceX. isn’t alone, of. course. Com- .
mercial space travel, being amongst the
most exciting prospects of the day, has ' I
become the goal of many brilliant minds.
Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic is the ’
newest branch of the ‘Virgin Group, con.-
cerned primarily with space tourism. Jeff I‘ ' ,
Bezos, founder of »Amazon.com, is also ~' v

‘under, contract with NASA to ﬁirther the  

 
 

exploration into commercialized space A j ,
travel. Roderick and Randa Milliron co- »  5
founded Trans I Lunar Research in «the , '
hopes of creating a manned space station C
on the moon, and are now in the race to
create a shuttle that could transport people
to the moon. . i

The Dragon capsule isn’t intended to '
shuttle mere cargo to the ISS. Though the
spacecraft was unmanned on its most re I
cent journey, SpaceX fully intends that it ’
one day be used to transport humans. The
ISS, a habitable structure that resides in ._
low Earth orbit, could conceivably be afx
travel destination open to Vacationers in
the near future. Once believed to be only
the product of fantasy ﬁlms and wild imag-
inations, space travel is on the verge of be-
coming the most recent feat of humankind

     
      
  
     
 
  

  
 
  
         
 
     
  

    
  
     
   

   
     
     
 

 

   

  

\

 

 

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

5 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

opinions

My kingdom for a kiss

By Hank Dobm
PROFESSOR or ENGLISH
Over the past two months, I have had

the privilege to be a cast member in the
production of Bye, Bye Birdie, which
played six performances to packed hous-
es last week. The thing I most want to
say is how much I admire and respect the
many student cast members who worked
so hard, and so joyfully, on the musical;
their dedication and their talents were
very much on display in the Johnson
Theater. I also want to thank Jenny Da-
vies for asking me to join the cast and
to compliment the combination of tire-
less work and creative imagination she
brought to the production.

But I also want to share some thoughts
about the play itself because, for all of
its fun and l950’s innocence, Bye, Bye
Birdie is a dated dramatic work, and one
that features umnistakably racist and
sexist characters and attitudes. In fact,
Bye, Bye Birdie is far easier to stomach
as social satire today, with more than
ﬁfty years of distance from its open-
ing night on Broadway. The overt sex-
ism and racism (directed at Latinos) in

the play would have made the original
audiences of this Tony-award winning
musical much more uncomfortable in
1960 because the play lampooned and
ridiculed attitudes that were current, and
largely unquestioned, in the post—war
boom years‘ of the 50’s. The civil rights
and women’s movements were only be-
ginning to challenge the status quo. The
play takes on these serious issues with
a playful but clearly satiric touch—by
making Albert’s mother’s casual slurs
about Latinos and other foreigners dis-
tastefully ignorant and by making the
male authority ﬁgures blustery, silly, and
impotent.

What upends the comfortable and
complacent idyll of l950’s American
domestic existence (complacent precise-
ly because the oppression and repression
that made it possible were unacknowl-
edged) in Bye, Bye Birdie? Simple: the
subversive power of rock-and—roll! This
new music threatened the very social
structure of society: it crossed racial di-
visions at the same time it declared gen-

marriage partner.

-

‘“"’“‘ battles over power or sex.

adult sexuality.

What are the main conﬂicts in Shakespearean Comedy?

 ' Generational conﬂict: typically the father tries to control
»__,_____,his daughter, block her happiness, and prevent her choice of

..  Gender Conﬂict: women and men are almost always at each
' J other, often in skirmishes of wit that mask more serious

 Conﬂict between love and sex: the young people in
w”_,Shakespeare’s comedies must resolve the tension between
idealized romantic love and the enticements (and, dangers) of

erational warfare. Itcreated a powerful
youth culture and unleashed the sexual
energy of the buttoned-up, bobby—socks
generation. The parents in the play la-
ment: “What’s the matter with kids to-
day?” And Elvis (or Conrad Birdie) was
at the epicenter of this quake that rocked
society. The 60’s — with short skirts,
long hair, drugs, and free sex»-were
about to be born.

But why my subtitle above? What
can Shakespeare possibly have to do
with Bye, Bye Birdie? Well, for all the
fun and froth of the musical, the play is
deeply traditional in its main comedic
preoccupations, and—upon analysis-
yields insights that are downright Shake-
spearean.

And how do Shakespeare’s comedies
typically end? With the defeat of the fa-
ther ﬁgure, with the daughter marrying
the man of her own choice (but almost
always one who seems unworthy of
her), with some sort of truce between the
lovers (often after the woman bests the
man but then, problematically, appears
to cede authority back to him), and with
the young couple heading off to the wed-
ding bed as the play ends. But careful!
Sex is all foreplay in the comedies; once
sexual consummation occurs, we enter
the world of Shakespearean tragedy.

This simplistic tour of the genre of
Shakespearean comedy can guide our
analysis of the conﬂicts and resolutions
of Bye, Bye Birdie.

Generational conflict? The two

X. central blocking ﬁgures in the
play are Alber’t’s mother—obsessively
possessive and demanding of Albert’s
love and attention~and Mr. McAfee—
trying to maintain control over his fam-

ily, especially Kim. (Fascinatingly, he
tries to block both rivals for Kim’s affec-
tions; the virtually pre-pubescent ‘Hugo
is as much a threat to his patriarchal do-
minion. as is the hyper-sexualized Con-
rad.) But both blocking characters lose

in the end.
Gender conflict? The play
2 . mocks male authority as both
ridiculous and futile—whether it is Mr.
McAfee’s pitiful attempts to exercise do-
mestic control (“Nero is back in town!”)
or the Mayor’s dismay as Conrad’s phys-
ical presence lets loose an explosion of
female sexual energy and willfulness
that turns his quiet town into utter cha-
os. (The Mayor’s own wife comically
swoons at the least twitch of Birdie’s
hips.) And Albert himself is no match
for Rosie, who is much more clever,
resourceful, and conﬁdent than he will
ever be. Rosie describes him as a “tower
of jello” and wonders in song what she
even sees in him. When Albert tries to
assert his masculine prerogative at the
end of the play in an overtly sexist rant,
the audience just laughs at him, at least
in part because we know he doesn’t even
mean it. We all know who will wear the
pants in the relationship — just like Rosa-
lind, or Viola, or Portia. -
Love vs‘. sex? The lovers in
3. Bye, Bye Birdie—like those
in Shakespeare’s comedies—are trapped
in an idealized notion of romantic love
that is simultaneously drawn to and fear-
ful ofthe power of sexual love. Kim and
Hugo may get “pinned” but they are so
clearly non-sexual that the revelation at
the end of the play that Hugo has pro-
posed to Kim can only appear ridiculous.
Mr. and Mrs. McAfee are the epitome
of the de-sexualized suburban mar-

ried couple. And there is absolutely no
“chemistry” between Albert and Rosie.
He seems virtually neutered; any passion
comes only from the frustrated Rosie-
although when she unwittingly rouses
the Shriners’ dormant libidos, she ﬂees
in alarm.

The sexual energy of the play ema-
nates from Conrad and threatens to
overwhelm any semblance of order or
decorum. Like Elvis, whose hip thrusts
were too offensive to be aired on the Ed
Sullivan Show in 1956, Conrad symbol-
izes freedom, rebelliousness, and fun.
The teenage girls of Sweet Apple lose all
self-control, ﬂirting not just with Conrad
but with danger. The parents panic. The
girls play at grown-up seduction (“Let’s
have an orgyl”). And when Kim and
Conrad are alone, the mood turns vague-
ly menacing. Only by arresting Conrad,
getting him out of town, and ultimately
subjecting him to the regimentation of
the army can the specter of unbridled
sexuality once again be contained by
the societally-approved institutions of
romantic love (marriage for Rose and
Albert or “going steady” for Kim and
Hugo). Interestingly, mama has to go
too; an infantilized and de-sexualized
Albert won’t do Rosie any good either.

And so order and peace are restored
in Sweet Apple. As they are in lllyria,
Arden, Ephesus, and Padua. Okay, Bye,
Bye Birdie is not exactly Twelfth Night.
But any work of art is both a product of
its own time and place as well as an ob-
ject for enjoyment and interpretation in
our own. Bye, Bye Birdie may be dated,
but it came to life — in all of its fun and
all of its possible meanings — on stage at
the Johnson Theater last weekend.

  Is San

By Julianna Satterly

EDITOR IN CHIEF

 

A strange tidbit ﬁnally broke the Lex-
ington bubble this morning. A hurricane,
newly dubbed “Sandy” is slowly mean-
dering its way up from the Caribbean
and heading for the Atlantic seaboard.
Nobody around here seems concerned.
Hurricanes never make it past Florida,
right? I secretly hope it does. I have nev-
er seen the fury of a storm before, and
I want a piece of the action. I want to
cower in the basement with candles and
a good book.

 

Sandy has already killed 21 people in

dy all Washe

the Caribbean, and by this morning has
devoured almost 2000 miles of ocean.
The storm is continuing to stretch like a
spring: reaching from the tip of Florida
all the way up through North Carolina.
There is a strange wind in the air, and
bruised clouds blanket the entire sky.
She is coming.

I went to Wally World today to get
cooking supplies, and there are no bat-
teries. There are no ﬂashlights. There is
no water, or candles, or canned foods.
There are no people to watch. I have
never seen a Wal-Mart that silent. The
employees looked at me questioningly
as I went about my business, shopping
for everyday supplies. It reminds me of
Y2K when there was no rice to be found
for hundreds of miles. Every conversa-
tion leads to what they are now referring
to as the “Frankenstorm.” Sandy com-
bined with an arctic front then added to a
jet stream. Strange things are happening
here.

 

I woke up this morning to a how]-
ing wind. The trees are shuddering,
and the leaves are winding their way to
the ground. As Pooh would have said,
it was quite a blustery day. And yet all
two thousand of us had to trudge our
way through the wind to school. But
the weather man is predicting snow for
tomorrow, and with snow comes power
outages. We can’t possibly have class
with a power outage, right?

It is now only 7 p.m., and the
world is black. The clouds covered the
sunset and moon and stars. All there is
around is wind. As I walk back to my
apartment I am surrounded by groaning
giants; their cracking limbs making a»
dull thud as they hit the sidewalkfl start
to walk a little faster, because I would

11 .

prefer not to be impaled. As I walk in-
side the lights start to flicker. Well,
there goes the power. I think Sandy is

~ ofﬁcially upon us. Every other school

for two hundred miles is closed tomor-
row, and yet we haven’t heard anything.
The TV is blaring that conditions will
only worsen throughout the night. I’ve
called my family in New York and heard
of how Manhattan is in terrible shape.
People are kayaking through the streets
of Long Island. There are SCUBA div-
ers in Times Square station. Fires have
destroyed almost a hundred homes in
Queens. The area’s schools have ofﬁcial-
ly been suspended until further notice.
Any moment now, and Sandy is going to
reach us, almost three hours inland.
Before I go to bed I unplug all
important electronics; 1 don’t want them
to fry during a power surge. I parked my
car on the second ﬂoor of the parking
deck: covered from the elements and too
high for ﬂooding. I put a ﬂashlight by my

head and candles within reach. We have
lots of bottled water stockpiled and extra
batteries, and we all showered today in
case the hot water is suspended. I called‘
my parents and told them not to worry,
and that I love them. We are so ready!
Bring it on, Sandy. T-Minus twelve
hours until apocalypse level.

 

Nothing. I woke up and it was a
beautiful day, with a few wispy clouds in
the sky. No snow. No storm. The school
website tells me that “Washington and '
Lee is operating on a normal schedule.”
Well, crap. I guess I’d better do that
homework I was so sure I wouldn’t have
to turn in today...

By Yates Wilburn
STAF F W RITE R

. t ’

Some interesting remarks were made
recently by Ambassador Shin Bong-kil,
Secretary-General of the Trilateral Co-
operation Secretariat—an organization
dedicated to strengthening economic ties
between China, South Korea, and Japan.
In the remarks, made during a round-
table discussion at the Center for Stra-
tegic and lntemational Studies in early
September, the Ambassador claimed that
the “deepening economic ties and boom-
ing people-to-people exchanges are driv-
ing the three countries towards a greater
integration than ever before.” Speciﬁ-
cally, he pointed to a recent agreement
between the three countries to discuss
the “Trilateral Free Trade Agreement
(FTA)” which he equated to an East

 

Asian version of NAFTA as evidence of
this dynamic. In addition, he cited the
overwhelming amount of aid from China
and South Korea to Japan in the wake of
the devastating earthquake last year as
evidence of deepening ties. However,
these remarks were made well before the
anti-Japanese riots in China and Repub-
lie of China (Taiwan), as well as the in-
crease of Chinese maritime presence in
the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands. While the
Ambassador did mention the dispute be-
tween China and Japan (as they stood at
the time) in the remarks, it was only in a
passing reference and he provided little
to no explanation as to why this seri-
ous disagreement would not impede any
progress on such an economic union.

While the economic ties between Ja-
pan and China in particular have become
a huge source of revenue for both coun-
tries—China is Japan’s biggest trading
partner, Japan is China’s third—that trend
has shown signs of decline recently. Ac-
cording to recently released economic
data (cited in the New York Times),
Japanese trade has decreased by 1.4%
in the past 8 months after an increase of

14.3% last year. According to the NYT ‘

article, Japanese ofﬁcials blamed both
the global economy but also “concems
over political issues.” Ofﬁcials added
that growth of investment from Japan
to China has slowed to 16% growth in
the most recent 8 months, with the same
period last year showing a 50% growth.
This news comes despite Japan’s “near-
total reliance” upon China for rare earth
minerals, as “Japanese companies seek
out countries with even cheaper work
forces and less-touchy diplomatic rela-
tions.”

Despite the incredible volume of
trade and dependence China and Japan
share with one another, it does not ap-
pear to be enough to smooth over these
“concems over political issues,” nor is
it a situation that many Chinese citizens
support, as protests in China have ex-
posed a segment of the population that
does not appreciate the amount of trade
done with Japan.iStill, both countries
seem to need the other for the near fu-
ture, as both economies are very fragile,

still weathering a tenuous global recov-
ery. Hopefully, this will be enough to
keep the region from becoming more

- Trade reorients eastern tension

diplomatically tense as territorial dis-
putes cloud the judgments of the govem-
ments of Japan, China, and South Korea.

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

opinions

 

By David Zekan
G U E ST w R I T E R

Although the October 29th discus-
sion on the Affordable Care Act proved
to be insightful regarding the speciﬁcs of
the act, it was ultimately very one-sided
with only the positive aspects ofthe act
being addressed by the collection ofleft-
leaning professionals. The six-inan pan-
el consisted ofthree professors, an R.N.,
and two student representatives from
their respective political organizations.
The perspective ofa physician was only
mentioned when it came to serving
one’s community. Not once was the
sustainability of medical practices or
physician’s opinions on speciﬁcs of
the act mentioned.

In a Nov. 1 interview with a
practicing physician. who re-
quested to remain anonymous, the
attack on doctors by federal institli-
tions was adamantly aﬁirmed. He
claimed that medical records are
being attacked and it is becoming
such that more importance is placed
on documentation than on care for pa-
tients. The federal govemment has
mandated electronic medical records,
a practice which is “turning MDs into
computer technicians” and dehuman-
izing the bookkeeping that comes with
a medical practice. Although this may
simplify management, it puts patients at
risk and a question ofthe constitutional-
ity ofthis mandate arises.

According to the interviewee, the
goal of the federal government is to force
doctors to work for hospitals instead of
in private practices because the govern-
ment has a substantial amount ofcontrol

  
  
 
  
   

 

  

 

O
. R s t
I 1 m ‘V 11' it.
over these bureaucra- forms could be made _to the Ameri- gig
cies. Government can system, the physician referenced
d€t€FmiI1a- healthcare savings accounts, ‘
’ which he believes should be As this election cycle nears a
expanded. He claimed conclusion, we are reminded of our
that “the expansion of greatest political freedom: the right
tion of a healthcare savings to vote. However, we must also rec-
pl‘-V' aC°0U“‘ W0U1d lead ognize that no such freedom can exist
5'' ‘O ‘he lowermg Of without its necessary protectors.
l“S:j”a“°e. ‘ates Throughout our history, American
in 3" lnciease liberties have been challenged over C
in deductibles. . _
Essentially un_ and over again; each time, honorable
der 3 heaithcare men and women respond by sacrific-
Savings account ing themselves in war to defend the
a pariem puts rights of their tellow citizens. If we
money into the are to truly do justice to their service,
account indepen- then we must exercise the most basic
dent of his or her tenant of our democracy. We must
insurance and uses Voto_
‘his m°“e3’ ‘O Pa-V dc‘ As president of College Demo-
ductlbles if he °‘ She is crats lmake this pledge‘ If on de-
in need of care.” He also . ’ . . ' .y
cide to vote in Lexington this Tuesday,
added that these would not C " D ," _
be mandatory, but a good option 0 ege emoctats WI gladly provide .
for healthy, young individuals who the transportation. Arrangements .
wanted insurance, or under the AC A had can be made through 5m'th5ch°e"'
‘ mg]. to have insurance due to the unconstitu- W3ld9Vt14@m3"-Wl|l-ed|l- Funnel"
ciaii’s practice tional individual mandate. Physicians more, this invitation is open to each
l'eimburse- insurance that are not just looking out for themselves student, regardless of political affili-
ments is common Lin- was approximated to cost and their practices in opposing the ACA, ations_
der Medicaid, and will remain this way $31,000 a year with a $100,000 they are also promoting quality of care Let us honor the Americans who
under the ACA. The interviewed physi- deduciib1o if something does go wrong and the rights of individuals to choose have made the ultimate sacrifice for
cian claimed to be paid $430 to remove during the procedure, The sheer magni- which physician they see and when they our ﬂ,eedoms_ This Tuesday, let us
an appendix from 8 lVlCdlCal‘Cl patient tude of these numbers brings mio ques- SCC him Or‘ her. t
While The h05Pllal lnakes avwcximately tion the sustainability of a private prac- V0 e' .
$5000 for the paticnt’s slay during What tice and the government’s so-called free sincerely’
is normally a two to three day recovery. market values, _ roddsmltbschoenwalder .
However, the physician is required to buy when asked what i-ogpoiigib1e ro- P’9-“dent ofcollege Democrats
0
I
I
O
0 o
G‘
. A cappella has been lirepresented in recent years by the.likes
of angst-ridden:h_igh school 1students and overly.—reminiscent'
/Qfﬁce workers, Howey/ier, on’;,Sa’tur,day night, acappella «donned a
different, kindev"of.lth_e*atri\ iVty;.’lr'our Washington and Lee groups
took the stage in“ ‘l.ee1__~ .l);a’pe,l to perform mash-ups of their
1 favorite songs. The .Vl/aIsh£i__,rfgT,ones~(center)‘started the show 9
with an arrangement_c_onfi.bining Ben E. l<_ing’s “Standby Me”9
and The Police's *‘Eve‘ry Breath You Take.” General Admission
(top),took the stageivneitgttaclkliing Michael Bubl_e1‘s“Just Haven’t,
Met .You Yet” and;J‘aso‘r1_Mraz:’;s,"fl.Tm.:Yours.” JubiLee (bottom)~
took on Michael 'Bub!:e’s“:Heartache Tonight" and" Diana Ross’-s
“Ain't No Mountaiyn‘Hig;"*En9ug,h,,”’A Southern Comfort (not
1 pictured), aftera brief ,pij  ’_ otijyingito convinocelthe audience
that this would be .tl1eir.;‘last:»show..Outside of the wedding
circuit, performed ’N‘ellly’fjs,“f-‘Ride Wit Me,” The Clovers’s “One 0'
Mint Julep,” and !‘fSou1‘v-to’.-$lo;u_,l;.” -- 1. 1‘ O

 

 

 
  

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5,‘ 2012

7 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&|ife

Betweena rock and a hard place

By Caroline Hamp
STA F F w R I T E R

Instead of getting caught up on how
your life looks on paper, focus on the
things that really matter, like your family
and friends. That was the advice skilled
outdoorsman and adventurer Mr. Aron
Ralston offered to a packed audience
during his speech in Keller Theater last
Thursday night.

Invited by the CONTACT Committee
and Outing Club to share his story, Aron
Ralston is the hero behind “127 Hours,”
the movie which documented his hor-
riﬁc, yet life-changing experience in late
April and early May of 2003. While
hiking through the majestic canyons of
Utah, a boulder, suddenly unsecure, fell
on Ralston and pinned his hand against
the canyon wall. He stayed there for 5
days until he ran out of water, and was
left dehydrated and mentally exhausted.
Within an hour of that boulder falling,
Ralston knew that he would not be able
to survive; he had not told anyone where

he was going and didn’t expect anyone _

to be searching for him.

On the ﬁfth day, Ralston accepted his
death. He wrote his name, birth date,
and assumed death date on the canyon

 

 

wall; in other words, he was standing
in his grave with an epitaph already
engraved above his head. Ralston then
proceeded to make a video of his last
will and testament. ‘

‘,‘As I’m sitting under that tape,‘ I’m
learning a lot,” said Ralston, recalling
that critical moment. ‘‘It was a great
reminder to know what is important...
I was standing in my grave, yet I was
smiling.” I

In his tape, Ralston didn’t'mention
school, work, or money. He didn’t dwell
on those silly little accomplishments
that, at the time of their achievement,
had seemed so huge. His normally type-
A, overly ambitious attitude faded away.
Instead, he spoke to the people in his life.
He professed his love to his family and
friends. '

And then, in the midst of these ﬁnal
words, he experienced the strangest,
most realistic vision of all — a vision
of-his future life. The vision included
a beautiful baby boy, laughing and
playing and calling him ‘daddy.’ Sud-
denly, death was no longer in the cards.
Ralston had a future, and he was going to

I

Ralston, pictured with his hunting gear and equipment, at the scene of the boulder. He was

  
 

see it through.

With that in mind, Ralston broke his
radius and his ulna, and then cut through
his ﬂesh and bone with a multipurpose
knife that he had gotten for free with a
Wal-Mart ﬂashlight. It was the most
pain he had‘ ever experienced when that
knife tore through the nerve.

Despite the pain and suffering the boul-
der had given him, Ralston did one last
thing before he escaped his grave — he
thanked the boulder. He didn’t lose any-
thing (except a dismembered hand), but
he had gained the insight to a better life.
He had learned the strength of the power
of love.

“Our will to love — our strength and
courage comes from that,” Ralston said.
“It saved me.” '

So when you have to deal with that
l5—page midterm paper, a stressful
chemistry test, or a nerve-racking in-
ternship interview, remember that those
aren’t the only things in life. Tum those
anxiety-ﬁlled obstacles into blessings:
talk to your professor about the paper,
study with a friend for the test, and get
a few pointers from your parent for the

trapped here for five days before deciding to make his harrowing escape.

&L Outng cm,

3*?‘

«:;<i the Film 12? 

The CONTACT committee and Outing Club promoted posters
around campus to spread the word about speaker Aron Ralston.

interview. Or better yet, just put your
life into perspective. That’s the point
of Ralston’s message. Relationships are
more important than what you can see
on paper. Relationships trump the paper,
the test, and the interview - every time.
Ralston’s speech fell on perfect ears.
Families, visiting campus for Parents
Weekend, shared laughter, gasps, and
tears together as Ralston shared his story,
which generated plenty of ‘I love you”s

afterwards.

“I’d even cut off my other hand for
this little guy,” said Ralston, referring to
his son at the end of his talk. “And I bet
there is someone that you would do the
same for.” '

Behind the scenes of Traveller

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

It’s Saturday night and there’s a band ington and Lee, the answer is obvious: to get around safely, but the buses would
party at County Seat. How are you get- Traveller, of course. W&L’s safe ride have stopped running a long time ago if
ting there? For most students at Wash- system makes it easy for all the students it was not for the Traveller drivers.

And let’s be honest: those drivers put
up with a lot. The buses can be a crazy
place. Just getting on is one of the most
difficult tasks. When the Windfall Hal-
loween party was shut down by the po-
lice on Wednesday, masses of students
rushed the doors of the bus in an effort
to make it home.

Earlier that night, another push for
seats caused the windows on the door
of one of the buses to shatter. Last year
a student ran down the aisle of a bus
and busted straight through the back
window. And it’s
not just shattered
glass that Travel-
ler drivers

     
   

have
to attend to.

Driver John Smith, who has driven
the buses for seven years, said: “Usu-
ally the biggest problem we have is that
people have trouble controlling their
bodily functions. I don’t think people
realize that [the drivers] have to clean
everything up.”

Uncontrollable bladders,
chain-reaction vomiting — the Traveller
drivers have seen it all. Smith contin-
ued, “You never know what you’re go-
ing to get covered with.”

Buses that get damaged or
messy have to be serviced, and thus
can no longer be used for the rest of
the night. This setback really puts the
drivers behind. Between taking the bus
back and using fewer buses for rounds,
they end up losing a huge length of
time.

A Students line up outside the bus to board Traveller on a busy party
night. Traveller serves nearly 2000 students every week, working

to make sure that everyone gets home safely. per the most part, however,

 

Traveller isn’t too bad. These problems,
while troubling, certainly aren’t constant
occurrences. Students pile on, maybe get
a little rambunctious, but generally have
a good time together. Driver Dennis
Patterson, who is in his second year of
working for Traveller, said that he plays
music to keep the students happy and
contained.
During a typical party night,
the buses are ﬁlled with shouts, laugh-
ter, and the occasional student trying to
swing from the overhead rack. Picture
taking is, of course, a must. It is not un-‘
common to have a series of Traveller
“selﬁes” after a night out. Singing and
dancing ~ if it can even be called that —
are always present.
The
cite-

   

CX-

   

drivers take care of the entire W&L com-
munity. On Friday night, a student was
overheard saying to Smith, ‘‘I’m going to
introduce you to my mom and tell her all
about how much you’ve saved me this
year.”

Any student can attest to the fact that
the drivers aren’t just protectors; they
are a vital source of information. It is no
secret that Traveller drivers know every-
thing: where the best parties are, which
parties are dead and which are still go-
ing, whether or not cops have shown up
— whatever it is, they have the
facts.

Said Smith: I T
dents 

 
       
 
    
   
 
 
    

,_ » ways
 ask us
' what’s

going
ment on or
was al- where

most tangible when “Wagon Wheel,”
“Jesse’s Girl,” and “Sweet H:.me Ala-
bama” began playing on a bus last Sat-
urday. Said Smith: “The students are a
great source of entertainment. It’s ﬁm to
see them having a good time.”

The Traveller drivers enjoy having the
students just as much as the students ap-
preciate having them. They are an inte-
gral part of the W&L community and
a staple in its nightlife. In fact, a large
portion of the student body befriends the
drivers.

“I’ve made a lot of friends over the
years,” said Smith. “Some call just to
check on me. A few threw me a birthday
party last year, and probably more than
300 students showed up.  lot of the stu-
dents really care.”

Befriending the drivers can be incred-
ibly beneﬁcial for students. After all, the

the place to be is. After a while, you learn
everything about the houses because al-
most every party is a yearly tradition.”

Regardless of all that can happen on-
board Traveller, drivers ﬁnd it to be
highly rewarding. It is primarily a posi-
tive experience. Said Patterson: “I like
driving for Travellerjust ﬁne. I wouldn’t
do it ifl didn’t.”

Smith continued: “I enjoy it. The peo-
ple are really great. Plus, you save a lot
of people. To get someone home safe
and keep them either out of the hospital
or out of jail is really rewarding. You feel
like you’ve done a good thing.”

  

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

arts&life

 

P.E. classes cure winter blues

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

x

 

A Thought you kne

12- 

w all about PE? Think again. At W&L, physical education is much more than your average high school gym class. For-

  

get about dodgebali; here, students can choose anything from Self-Defense to Boot Camp to Yoga to fulfill their FDRs this winter.

Some Washington and Lee students
are ﬁnding their physical education
classes to be life saving.

Among these students is sopho-
more Self-Defense student Caroline
Crichlow-Ball. “Before taking [Self-
Defense class], I would have had no idea
how to respond if I were attacked,” said
Crichlow-Ball. “Now, self- defense tech-
niques have become instinctual.”

"'Self—Defense, taught by the Uni-
versity’s own public safety officers, is
just one of the many P.E. classes on the
course-offerings list for upcoming win-
ter registration.

W&L gives students a taste of its
liberal arts “status” by requiring all un-
dergrads to take four terms of physical
education. The school’s goal for these
classes is to “encourage social efficien-
cy” through physical activity. According
to Director of Physical Education Mr.
Neil Cunningham, P.E. classes “only
enhance the true W&L experience” and
provide “an excellent release for our stu-
dents.”

if a good workout takes precedence
over the cold weather this winter, then
there’s the option of taking 8 a.m. Boot

Camp or 10 a.m. Aerobic Running. For
those lessenthused about running, Pro-
fessor Wendy Orrison will be offering a
therapeutic Yoga class.

College sports aren’t for everyone.
However, if you’re missing your high
school sport this winter, soccer, vol-
leyball and basketball are open for sign
up. Others may decide to “branch” out
with Professor James Dick’s Wilderness
Leadership class. g

“in the winter semester the classes
that are indoors are most popular due to
the weather," said Cunningham. “in ad-
dition, Boot Camp and Weight Training
are extremely popular ‘after the break as
everyone starts that ‘new’ ﬁtness cam-
paign."

First-year lacrosse player Caroline
Hutchinson, like many other ﬁrst-years,
is looking forward to trying a different
form of exercise. “i want to take Dance
Conditioning so 1 can improve my danc-
ing skills while at the same time enjoy-
ing a sport different from lacrosse,” said
Hutchinson. . ‘

Another option is to knock out two
credits with Cunningham’s own Phi-
losophy and Techniques of Coaching, or

 

Williamson is offering a Therapeutic Ex-

another class for preventing and caring already injured, this term trainer Joshua
for athletic injuries. For those who are

‘»‘:§‘~ N’

ercise course, or physical rehab.
Cunningham finds that indoor
sports like badminton, racquetball, in-
door soccer, basketball, volleyball and
yoga, are most popular among students
for winter classes. Part of the appeal
comes from the fact that professors do
not expect their students to be previ-

, ously skilled in any ofthe physical ac-

tivities that a class may entail.

Senior Sallie Griffin has ﬁrst-hand
experience with the variety in P.E. of-
lerings after taking badminton. “i like
that you don’t need any prior experi-
ence and you can still be competitive
and have a great time," said Griffin. “I
would suggest it to anyone who wants
to broaden his or her sports horizon."

According to Crichlow-Ball, her
favorite part about Self -Defense is her
professors’ dedication. “You can tell
they teach this class because they re-
ally care about W&L women's safety,”
she said. '

The Physical Education Department offers numerous different courses to satisfy the wide range of
student interests. Pictured above are students carrying tanks and training underwater for scuba
diving, a class taught during Spring Term.

Studen

Coming from Costa Rica to Mon-
golia,’parents ﬂew in from all around
the world to attend the annual Par-
ents and Family Weekend Multicul-
tural Students’ Dinner, hosted by the
Office of Diversity and inclusion in
the Evans Dining Hall last Saturday.
One of the highlights of the evening
was the global fashion show, orga-
nized by sophomore Cathy Wang,
who aimed to showcase the student
body’s diversity through traditional
costumes. The event was highly

successful, with 24 participants rep_—
resenting 12 different countries in
colorful attire. ‘What a night to re-
member!

 

  

 .
Maria H

\
1

 

The international fashion show featur
12 different countries in colorful costumes and outﬁts.‘

-.{.&£..i..[I LI

errera '16, Sofia Sequeira ’15, Alejandro Paniagua ’16'(all
Costa Rica), and,Myrna Barrera '15 (Mexico) smile for the camera.

\

  
 

IauntcuItu'<~>

ed 24 participants, representing

    

Alejandro Paniagua '16
(Costa Rica) takes a bow.

 

  

 

L.

Alna Hamrick 6 (Korea)
shows off a traditional bow.

 

 

  
 

  

Stephanie Do"15 (Vietnam), Soﬁa Sequeira '15 (Costa Rica),
Waringa, Kamau '15 (Ethiopia), Daphine Mugayo '15 (Uganda),
and Susan Dittma

shion

 

Fred Gisa '16 (Rwanda)
showcased a family chief
cane andanimai skins.

  

'5

 

n (Kenya) proudly ﬂaunt their costumes.

v'_

. 

‘A-

 

’15(china), Maria Herrera

Multiple countries were represented by

 

Sofia Sequeira ’15 (Costa iiica), Cathy 

 

O p '16 (Costa, Rica), Stephanie Do '15 (Vietnam), Oyumaa
Daichinkhuu '16 (Mongolia), and Ahn ‘la '16 (Vietnam). V  g

 

   

1

 

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5,2012

9 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

..sports

Kyle Jaeger

 

 

In perhaps the most shocking trade of the offsea-
son, the Oklahoma City Thunder decided to break
up their powerful young core by shipping James
Harden to the Houston Rockets. This trade was
perplexing to many who asked, why break up a big
three of James Harden, Kevin Durant, and Russell
Westbrook who led the Thunder to the Finals just
one year prior? Others understood the trade but
felt that the Thunder should have waited until the
end of the season to trade Harden, especially when
there was no threat of losing him for another six
months. I believe that the Thunder made a great
trade, and their timing was right.

The Thunder could not afford to keep Serge
Ibaka, Durant, Westbrook and Harden due to the
luxury tax. In signing lbaka to a new contract, the
Thunder essentially chose him over Harden. They
valued Ibaka’s presence and the pieces they could
get in return for Harden over maintaining their big
three. They asked Harden to take less money, and
he refused. Harden is not to blame for wanting what
he felt he deserved. The Thunder showed poise in
a difﬁcult situation. They showed they could make
hard choices to better their team, which is promis-
ing for the organization.

The Thunder made this move before the season
started for two reasons. First and foremost, they
got more value in this trade than they could have
next year, when there would be more pressure to
sign or trade Harden. The Thunder got Kevin Mar-
tin, a comparable offensive threat, Jeremy Lamb,
a promising prospect, and two ﬁrst round picks.
These picks are especially valuable, because one
of them is indirectly from the Toronto Raptors.
The Raptors project to be a lottery team, so in this
draft, the Thunder will most likely have a lottery
pick. It is rare for a deep playoff team to acquire

such high lev-
el picks. Sec-
ondly, if the
Thunder had let
the contract nego-
tiations drag on,

  

Hailey Hartley

The Rock-
ets believe
that they have
found a player that
they can build a

it could’ve turned
ugly. The Thunder
have a very speciﬁc
strategy, and they
made their position
clear by trading

The Oklahoma City Thunder traded James Harden to
Ithe Houston Rockets for Kevin Marlin, Jeremy Lamb,
and twaﬁrst-round draft picks.
Hailey and Kyle tip off about whether or not it was
. good trade.

championship team
around in James
Harden. A young,
skilled guard, he
still has so much
room for improve-

Harden when he
refused to accept
less money for the good of the team: lfthey hadn’t
traded Harden, the situation could’ve turned dra-
matic and distracting for the Thunder, in a similar
way to the Orlando Magic last year.

The Thunder are looking beyond the immediate
impact of this trade and towards the future. The
transformation of the Lakers this offseason has
made the Thunder’s current path to the Finals more
difﬁcult. In making this trade, the Thunder may
sacriﬁce some ability to contend in the present, but
in the future they will emerge stronger. The Lakers
team can only last so long, and stockpiling draft
picks and young players for Harden will help the
Thunder contend when the Lakers team grows old.

Overall the Thunder again demonstrated their
savvy management skills. They were unafraid to
make an unpopular and risky move to better their
team. The Thunder make moves that time and
time again serve as the blue print for the rest of
the small market NBA teams. Surely, we will all
look back in ﬁve years and marvel at the foresight
of the Thunder.

ment. So why did
A the Thunder seem to
give a player with so much potential away?

The Thunder have a superstar in
Kevin Durant. Russell Westbrook, Serge Iba-
ka, Kendrick Perkins, and Thabo Sefolosha
round out ,a solid starting five. The team will
be a dominant force in the Western Confer-
ence for years to come. Despite the strong
roster, the team chose to trade away James
Harden rather than give him the deal he de-
served.

Harden averaged over 30 minutes off of
the bench last year with an average of four
rebounds and almost 17 points. His efforts
earned him the Sixth Man Award for the sea-
son. Harden played like a starter, and giv-
en time, could be one of the most dominant
players in the NBA. He was the Thunder’s
first round pick in the 2009 draft, and is only
23-years-old. The guy seriously had nowhere
to go but up.

The Thunder were not willing to give
Harden the deal he felt he deserved. And they
will suffer because of it. Sure they will still

be a playoff caliber team, they’re talented
there is no doubt about it. But, Harden only
improved the Thunder and he may have been
the key to more playoff runs. Harden wanted
a big deal that he knew he was unlikely to
get, and was given a choice. Accept the deal
shorter, lower salary deal being offered, or
book plane tickets to Houston. The Thun-
der’s loss is ten times the Rockets gain, and
they took the opportunity to basically steal
what they believe is an all-star level player
for many years to come.

The Thunder are losing what potentially
could have been a major player for the Thun-
der for years to come. He was an offensive
threat, and still with plenty of years to so-
lidify himself as a consistent and all-star
NBA starter. And yes, hindsight is 20/20, but
we can already see just a week into the NBA
season that Harden has MVP potential. He’s
playing at a high lev- el that is proving he
is worthy of the contract he de-
manded from the , Thunder. Only
time will tell, ; but the Thun-
der are looking " to be on the
losing side of the deal.

  
  
  
  

 

. Soccer falls

' to VA Wes

By Hendley Badcock

1 ou ned 110
about IM sports  

       

By Hailey Hartley
STA F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team’s hunt for the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship ended when they suffered a
loss in penalty kicks to Virginia Wes-
leyan on Thursday.

. Virginia Wesleyan was the ﬁrst on
the board just over six minutes into
, the ﬁrst half. Sophomore Isaac Ar-
rington found the net to give Virginia
Wesleyan an early lead.

Senior Dave Phillips responded in
the second halfoff of a cross coming
in from fellow senior Basti Richter.
Neither team was able to ﬁnd the
goal during the rest of regular play,

 

or the two sessions of overtime play.
Generals’ goalkeeper, sophomore
Albert Civitarese, had three saves
during the 110 minutes of total play
before the game went to a shootout.

Virginia Wesleyan goalie Jake
Burtch was forced to make just two
saves in the same time period.

Although the game ofﬁcially end-
ed in a tie the shootout determined
who would move on in the ODAC
tournament. The Generals were un-
able to top the Marlins in the penalty
kicks, losing 3-1.

With the loss the Generals’ season
ends. They had a record of 1 1-4-3.

STA F F w R I T E R
“Get out and just play,” Ray Ellington.
Assistant Director of Campus Recreation,
encourages Washington and Lee students,
faculty and staff. The flexibility and ac-
cessibility of intramurals allow even the
busiest student to take part in some light-
hearted competition. W&L offers a wide
variety of sports-—- including soccer, ten-
nis, dodgeball, and volleyball. The flag
football season is currently underway,
with the championships expected to take
place before Thanksgiving break. Hand-
ball, the newest intramural on campus,
will begin this Monday.
Throughout the year, Campus
Recreation also offers special events such
as the Big Pink Volleyball toumament for

breast cancer awareness held in October.
In the spirit of the Presidential election,
the Red, White and Blue Fun Run will
take place on Nov. 6. Finally, a softball
tournament will occur in late April.

Campus Rec welcomes anyone to cre-
ate a team and register. Greek Houses
comprise a large number of the intramu-
ral groups. Ellington points out that “the
fantastic job the Resident Advisers have
done helping to promote intramurals,”
has increased the number of Residence
Hall teams this year. Furthermore, he said
that an Intemational House Team, a Hil-
lel Team, a Faculty/Staff Team and a Law
School team participate in most sports as
well.

Registration for intramurals is simple.
Each league and tournament has a differ-
ent deadline, posted on a variety of media,
including Campus Notices, posters, and
the Campus Rec website. Forms, avail-
able on the website, must be turned in
along with a registration fee to the Intra-
mural Ofﬁce, 416 Warner Center. Look
out for the next registration deadline;
Campus Rec will accept forms for volley-
ball Jan. 7 through Jan. 10.

For those interested in assuming a
paid intramural position, “there are also
opportunities to join the Intramural Staff
as a game official, supervisor and score/
clock keeper,” Ellington advises. Please
contact Ellington at sellington@wlu.edu.

. ODAC spells consistency

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

Seven out of nine. 78 percent. No
matter which way you cut it, this value
signiﬁes the consistency of .Washing-
ton and Lee’s women’s cross country
throughout the last nine seasons. The
team has captured nine Old Dominion

Athletic Conference titles, while Coach
Kris Hoey has received ODAC Coach of
the Year as many times. But while the
success itself throughout the years re-
mains consistent, the year—to—year make-
up of each team is unique.

‘.‘As you win more and more
championships, they all mean something
different. lt’s really all about the ladies
on the team right now, and each one has
been different,” explains Hoey.

And this year’s ODAC champion-

ship stood head and shoulders above the
rest: for the ﬁrst time since she began
coaching at W&L, Hoey’s team scored
a miniscule 29 total points, placing ﬁve
runners in the top nine. A victory of this
fashion places the team in a good posi-
tion as the team prepares for the NCAA
South/Southeast Regional Champion-
ship meet this Saturday. The changes
in roster and different ways of win-
ning, however, seem to have been the
only variables in W&L’s women’s cross
country throughout the years. From the
approach to coaching, to the team’s
preparation for competing, consistency
has been the source for success.

“We try to instill similar values: hard
work and dedication. It’s something
we try to maintain throughout different
years. Success comes from drive and
determination from current athletes, but
the approach never changes,” said Hoey
who, along with Assistant Coach Kristin
Cupido, is always tough on her runners.
Just as the team values remain constant
from year to year, so does the team’s
mindset from race to race:

“A lot of people think we have to do
things differently [for the NCAA South/
Southeast Regional Championship], but
one of the goals from the beginning was
to contend for the title of every meet,”
said Hoey. “We’ve been running in a
manner to win the title in every meet,
large and small.” The team has won four
of the ﬁve meets that it has participated

for W&L XC, Kris Hoey

in this season.

It is the work outside of the meets
that have been instrumental in setting
the stage for the team’s success. Lexing-

ton’s hilly terrain is ideal for cross coun- ,

try training, and Coach Hoey has taken
advantage of this during her time coach-
ing in the Rockbridge area. For example,
when the team goes to compete at Har-
risonburg, a course Hoey describes as
“hilly and challenging,” her team is con-
ﬁdently prepared going in. They have
trained in a comparably tiring environ-
ment. Thus, the team faces no challenge
that it is reluctant to face head-on.

The ODAC championship that the
W&L women’s cross-country team has
recently won signiﬁes the habitual suc-
cess of the team under Coach Hoey’s
reign. Still, Hoey is ﬁrst to admit that
she sets thebar high for her athletes. If
she hadn’t, the team would not have won
the conference championship seven out
of nine years. This is just the ﬁrst step
of the women’s cross country cham-
pionship season, one that Coach Hoey
hopes will end with a national title.
If and when the team competes there,
don’t expect a change in approach. The
women’s cross-country team competes
next Saturday, November 10 in Atlanta
for the NCAA South/Southeast Regional
Championship.

 

   

10 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers
¢433

The total number of yards that Andrew Luck
threw for the Indianapolis Colts on Sunday on the
way to defeating the Miami Dolphins 23-30. This is
the most ever by a rookie. He surpassed Ryan Tan-

nehill’s record of 431 set earlier this season.

1!l

The age of Guan Tianglang, a Chinese golfer. He became
the youngest person ever invited to the Masters after win-

ning the Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship.

45].

The total number of rushing yards that Washington and Lee
had in Saturday’s game versus Hampden-Sydney. W&L de-

feated Hampden-Sydney 45-42 after four overtimes.

:13

The total number of years since the New York Knicks
opened their season 2-0. So far this season they have de-
feated the reigning NBA champions, the Miami Heat, 104-

84. On Sunday they defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 100-84.

soapbox

“Its like when you find out that Santa Claus
isn ’t real.”

- Spencer Conway, one of over 600 runners
that went to unofﬂclally run the New York
City marathon after It was cancelled due to
the devastation of Hurricane Sandy. Many
of these runners ran with supplies to give
to people that they ran Into along the route.
from ESPN.oom

“It's particularly hard for me, because
I'm not the most patient individual in the
world.”

—LosAngslesLakerKobeBryant.1heLakershavaopened
theseasono-3.theflrsttlmedolngthatsInoe1978.0vor
thethreegames Bryanthasaveraged30.7 polrrlspergame,
fromE.SPN.oom

ondeck

Generals Voted eighth
1n pre-season poll

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER _ ~

In Forest, Va., the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference released its 2012-13 men’s bas-
ketball preseason coaches’ poll last Thursday,

putting Washington and Lee eighth out of 12  i A - '

schools. Virginia Wesleyan, defending league
champion, took the top spot with 11 out of 12 -

ﬁrst-place votes.
The Generals will hit the court this season

with 11 returning players, including all ﬁve ..

starters from the 2011-12 team that went 13-
14 overall and 5-9 in the ODAC. Senior for-

ward .l.D. Ey returns as the Generals’ leading

scorer and leading rebounder. Last season, Ey
earned Second Team All-ODAC honors. In
addition, W&L returns with sophomore guard
Javon McDonald and junior forward Larry
Whitaker. Ey, McDonald, and Whitaker had
the three highest points per game average last
season.

W&L will scrimmage against Southern
Virginia University on Wednesday at 7:30

p.m. in the Warner Center before their regular “‘ -

season begins on Nov. 16.

Generals take bac:

ODAC

By Kristina Seon
s TA F F w R IT E R

After four overtime periods, Washington
and Lee came out on top over Hampden-Syd-
ney 45-42 to take the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference title.

451 of their total 489 yards was gained on
the ground.

Senior running back Luke Heinsohn
rushed the ball for three yards and scored the
ﬁrst points for the Generals with 2:35 left in
the second quarter. The Generals headed into
the locker room at halftime losing 17-6.

The Generals took advantage of the ﬁrst
drive ofthe second halfto score a touchdown.
Heinsohn carried the ball for 35 yards to score
his third touchdown ofthe game with 2:35 left
in the quarter.

With 0:39 left in the fourth quarter,
Heinsohn again rushed the ball into the end-
zone to tie up the game at 27 points.

After a scoreless ﬁrst overtime period,
senior running back Brett Murray scored a

CTOWI1

touchdown in each of the second and third
overtime periods. Heinsohn kicked a ﬁeld goal
in the fourth overtime period and the Generals
defense was able to stop Hampden-Sydney.
“lt was the most unbelievable game l’ve

ried the ball 30 times for 170 yards, breaking
his career high single game record. He also
passed for 36 yards on two completed passes.

The Generals’ defense was led by seniors
safety Jake Pelton and linebacker Doug Fra-

“It was the most unbelievable game I’ve ever been a part of ”

said sophomore running backAus‘tz'n Eisenhofer. “T0 ﬁght back

ﬁrom 1 7 down and to win in four overtimes‘ showed a lot of heart

and ﬁght that personiﬁes this team. ”

ever been a part of,“ said sophomore running
back Austin Eiscnhofer. “T0 ﬁght back from
17 down and to win in four overtimes showed
a lot of heart and ﬁght that personiﬁes this
team.”

Senior quarterback Nick Lombardo car-

ser, andjunior cornerback Mitchell Thompson
with ten, eight, and seven tackles, respectively.
The Generals will host the Hornets of
Shenandoah University on Saturday at 1:00
p.m. for the last game of the regular season.

Volleyball sets  
themselves into N CAAS

By Shelby Flores
STAF F W RITE R

The Washington & Lee volleyball team
will return to the NCAA Tournament for the
ﬁrst time since 2010.

The Generals came back from a ﬁrst game
loss to defeat Lynchburg 3-1 in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Championship
match Saturday afternoon. The win gave
W&L an automatic berth into the NCAA Tour-
nament.

F ourth-seeded Lynchburg upset ﬁrst-seed-
ed Randolph-Macon in a semiﬁnal match ear-
lier Saturday morning to earn its spot in the
ODAC Championship.

Head Coach Bryan Snyder said he expect-
ed that Randolph-Macon would win because
it had the home-court advantage but he was
not surprised when Lynchburg pulled off the
upset. Snyder said the team did not change its
mindset in the championship game because
they simply focus on the team across the net.

First-year outside hitter Anna Lausberg and

ﬁrst-year right side hitter Maddie Kosar had
career numbers in the Championship match.
Lausberg led the team with 21 kills and Kosar
added 14. Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles had
19 kills and led the team with 17 digs.

Lausberg, Kosar, and Boles represented
W&L on the ODAC Tournament All-Tourna-
ment Team. The W&L players were chosen
for the all-tournament team based on each
player’s individual performances in the tour-
nament against Roanoke, Bridgewater, and
Lynchburg.

Snyder said that the team’s overall prepa-
ration will remain the same no matter what
opponent they face in the tournament and
that they will attempt to keep to their normal
weekly schedule. The team will also continue
to strive for a national championship, a goal
the team set at the beginning ofthe season.

The Generals will not ﬁnd out who or
where they play until the NCAA selection

 

show on Monday. Nov. 5 at 11 am. NCAA
Regionals are from Nov. 9 to Nov. 1 l.

  
  

 

  

1

Courtesy of W&L Sports Info;

   

 

Men’s Basketball

Tuesday Wednesday

vs Southern Va. 7:30 '

Thursday

 
 

Saturday

Women's Swimming

at Sweet Briar 7 pm

 

W o m e n ’ s X C NCAA Regionals
M e n ’ s X C NCAA Regionals
W 1' 6 5 T l l n g at Wash. and Jeff. Invite
F 0 0t b a ll vs Shenandoah 1 pm

 

 

3 onwtcrittas T

iSPORTS/ page 8

I!

t-iomesmcthome?

Looking forward to your warm bed
and food-laden kitchen table? New
Englanders may be in for a bit of a shock.

A&L / page 6

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY       

° THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12,2012

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE ST-U

DENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXV||,NUMBER9

Hillel, Chick-fil-A and 4 more years

By Randy Karlson
STAFF warren

[iv

 

Last Tuesday America spok
told us that they want four more years of

Barack Obama. Obama won the popular

election by just over three million votes
and won the Electoral College by a mar-
gin of 126 votes.

The domination ofthe Electoral Col-
lege by President Obama is due to his
virtual sweep ofthe swing states, which
included Virginia, Florida, New Hamp-
shire, Wisconsin, lowa, Ohio, Nevada
and Colorado. Obama won every single
one of these states, but none were won
very convincingly with Governor Rom-
ney putting up very good ﬁghts.

In Virginia, which usually votes red,
Obama pulled out a victory. The Con-
gressional seat was won by Democrat
Tim Kaine, who beat out Republican in-
cumbent George Allen. Washington and
Lee’s very own, Republican Bob Good-
latte (L ’77), won Virginia’s Sixth Dis-
trict convincingly by a margin of 32%
of the vote.

When asked about Obama’s victory
on Tuesday, Todd Smith-Schoenwalder
(College Democrats’ President) and Lex
Luther (College Republicans’ President)
had very different reactions about the
win.

e, and

‘NM

Smith-Schoenwalder had believed
that “an Obama victory was very likely.”
Luther said he “was surprised and
disappointed” and he “didn’t think Pres-
ident Obama was going to be able to es-
sentially sweep the swing states.”

Luther also believed that this election
has to be awake-up call for the national
Republican Party leaders in Washington,
D.C.

“I think with back-to-back defeats
this has to be a wake-up call for the par-
ty,” said Luther. “The leaders in Wash-
ington have to realize that voters want
solutions, notjust ideology.”

Smith-Schoenwalder did not have
anything to say about the state of the
Democratic party, but he was extremely
proud ofhis group on campus.

“Every weekend, College Democrats
had been canvassing all over Rockbridge
County,” said Smith-Schoenwalder.
“Everyone was excited that our efforts
made a difference.”

Despite all of the differences that the
two parties and the two groups have,
the College Republicans and the Col-
lege Democrats put on a very successful
Election Night Viewing party at Hillel
House on Tuesday night.

  
   
   

      

  :-

houghout the night the two grups
were selling Chick-ﬁl-A sandwiches and

 W’ .‘

Students met in the Hillel House for an Elc

chicken nuggets in order to fundraise for
future events.

“The W&L College Republicans
were much more successful than the
national party,” said Luther. “Selling
Chick-ﬁl-A was a great fundraiser for
the club and we are looking forward to

ations kept absolutely civil, making the
event enjoyable for all who attended.”

J ack Clarke, a ﬁrst-year and ﬁrst time
voter, said he identiﬁes with the Repub-
lican party and was quite worried about
the election in the early part ofthe night.

First-year Matt Kinderman said

“Every weekend, College Democrats had been can-

vassing all over Rockbridge County, ” said Smith-

Schoenwalder. “Everyone was excited that our

eﬂorts made a diﬂerence. ”

Todd Smith-Schoenwalder, College Democrats’ President

the next term.”

Smith-Schoenwalder had a similar
reaction when asked about the turnout
on the night.

“We had a great turnout at the Elec-
tion Night party, co-hosted by College
Democrats and College Republicans.”
said Smith-Schoenwalder. “More impor-
tantly, students from all political afﬁli-

    

Wtc

 

e.
tion

h Party on the night of the elenction.

he identiﬁed with the Democrats and
was not surprised by the results of the
election. He was quite conﬁdent in the
Democrats’ strategy for the Electoral
College.

   

RANDY KARLSON/ Staff Writer

Fightin

By Hamlet Fort

STAFF warren _
Fraternity men at Washington and

Lee can expect changes to New Member
Education beginning in January.

The lnter-Fraternity Council (IFC),
Student Affairs Committee (SAC), and
Campus—Community Coalition have
worked simultaneously to alter New
Member Education, or as it is colloqui-
ally known, pledgeship, in a way that is
more conducive to the New Members, or
pledges. ,

Starting this year, new fraternity ini-
tiates will see changes to contact hours
from fraternities and the minimum Grade
Point Average required tojoin.

The SAC, led by Dean of Students
Sidney Evans, formed a report on the
state of New Member Education at
W&L, and commissioned the IFC in an
effort to make amends. Among the rec-
ommendations presented was a proposal
to shorten New Member Education from
its normal eight weeks to six weeks. The
SAC’s main objective, according to IFC

President Danny Murray, is to “change

the culture of New Member Education
that would legitimize the purpose, which
is to instill a sense of brotherhood.”
Murray says the administration’s
main concern for pledges is a diminished
quality of life, including lower GPAs, a
less regular sleep pattern and forced ac-
tion in certain situations. Most fraternity
presidents disagree with the proposal to
shorten New Member Education, accord-
ing to El Wislar, President of Sigma Chi.
“Less time would simply mean
heightened intensity and very little

would change except making those 6,

weeks worse,” says Wislar.
However, Wislar admits some as-

for pledgeship

pects ofNew Member Education should
change. “As ofnow, a step must be taken
by the fraternities in order to show that
we are willing to work with the adminis-
tration,” Wislar says.

The lFC countered the SAC’s report
with a report of their own, a list of pro-
posed amendments to pledgeship that

happen, though not so drastic as cutting
pledgeship to six weeks.

“We want to increase the student
quality of life and have a better structure
that allows for less manipulation of the
system,” said Murray.

. The IFC and the New Member Edu-
cation Task Force has ideas for doing so,

“Less time [for New Member Education] would

simply mean heightened intensity and very little

would change except making those six weeks

J

worse. ’
EJ Wislar, Sigma Chi President

would keep the eight-week length intact,
including the changes to contact hours
and minimum GPA. Previously, the
hours in which New Members would be
“on-duty” were from 7:00 a.m. to mid-
night. These hours have been changed
from 9:00 a.m. to midnight.

New Members also must now have a
minimum 2.3 GPA in order to join afra-
temity, instead of the previous 2.0. This
change comes in an effort to realign New
Members’ priorities from pledgeship to
academics, a major concern for the SAC.

Additionally, a New Member Educa-
tion Task Force has been created to fur-
ther investigate potential changes. Wislar
says one alternative being considered
is removing one day a week from New
Member Education altogether, essen-
tially shortening it to seven weeks, while
maintaining the eight-week time frame.

Murray agrees that changes need to

says Murray, including “mandating that
pledge educators have more control.”
Murray and Wislar are conﬁdent that
all parties involved can get what they
want. “The IFC has worked hard to
maintain the Greek values which have
made this University great and will con-
tinue to do so,” says Wislar. “In my opin-
ion, a happy medium can be reached that
will not jeopardize the fraternal tradition

_ but will appease those administrators and

faculty who have complaints.”

As of now, only the changes to con-
tact hours and minimum GPA will be in
effect this January. These minor changes,
and potentially others, will undergo a
one-year trial period to judge their ef-
fects. The issue will be revisited next
fall by the SAC and the IFC, and more
changes could come then.

Easing the

By Douglas McNie|
STAFF w R ITER

Although Parents Weekend is usu-
ally held late in the fall semester, it will
be moved to an earlier date next year.

Assistant Dean of Student Affairs
Sydney Evans said that there are mul-
tiple reasons for the switch. She cites
the main reason as the administration
believing that it would be more beneﬁ-
cial to first-years if their parents visited
earlier on in the fall semester.

If parents visit earlier in the semes-
ter, then there is a better chance that
they can contact and/or alert the deans
ofany initial problems their child might
face in the transition to college, accord-
ing to Evans.

While ﬁrst-year parents are by no
means the only parents who visit dur-
ing Parents Weekend, the majority of
the programming is aimed toward them.

Currently, only two weeks separate
Parents Weekend and Thanksgiving. By
the time the break rolls around, many
students have already seen their parents
recently.

The administration believes that
it makes more sense to widen the gap
between parental interactions so the

adjustment: parents
to come back earlier

initial gap of starting school and see-
ing parents at Parents Weekend will be
shortened. The administration expects
that this will help the ﬁrst-years have a
better transition to college living.
Besides the main issue, another
reason for the switch is the increased
chance of inclement weather. While the
possibility of poor weather was not the
main factor, Evans cited the icy weath-

‘Parents Weekend Schedule:
2o13: Oclzober 4-e

2o14: october 3-5
2015: october 9-11

 

er, which occurred in the 2011 Parents
Weekend.

The team that was charged to over-
see the change faced many challenges,
including scheduling the new dates
around all the other events that oc-

. cupy the fall University calendar. They

wanted to ﬁnd a weekend with a home
football game, while not interrupting
important events such as Homecoming
and the Board of Trustees meeting.

The earlier Parents Weekend is al-
ready on the calendar for the next three
years. In 2013 it will occur on Oct. 4-6,
in 2014 it will occur on Oct. 3-5, and in
2015 it will occur on Oct. 9-11.

 

 

IINIVERSITY LIBRARY
V‘/A‘3i‘i.lx'~if§T0l%I 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450‘

NOV I Hill?

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 12,2012

 

Celebrating uss

By Krysta Huber
s TA F F w R | T E R
The Celebrating Student Success
Initiative selects two students to be rec-
ognized for their accomplishments and
contributions to Washington and Lee as
Generals of the Month, every month.
This month’s recipients, awarded at a
reception in the Marketplace on Nov.
1, were seniorsiAli Hamed and Jennifer

 

Ritter, according to wlu.edu.

“The Celebrating Student Success
Initiative is purely an effort at praise,”
said Assistant Dean for First-Year Ex-
perience Mr. Jason Rodocker. "It‘s

ia Tech Research Symposium. Hamed
has also been a teaching assistant to
physics students, according to wlu.edu.

Ritter is an Appalachian Adventure
Leading Edge Trip Leader and co-
president and student choreographer of
the W&L Repertory Dance Company.
She is also the personnel chair of Chi

Omega sorority and the co-president of
Catholic Campus Ministry, according
to wlu.edu.

In addition, both Ritter and Hamed
are members of several different honor

  

the Physics Honors Society, works for
Traveller, is in his third year as an RA
and has been a member of the varsity
basketball team for three years.

“The award was a great pat on the
back,” Gilﬁllan said. “When you’re so
involved in multiple projects, it’s good
to know your work has not gone unno-
ticed.”

Deutsch is also the Assistant Gener-
al Manager and Music Director of9l.5
WLUR FM, Co-Chair of First Book,
Vice President of Philanthropy of Pi
Beta Phi sorority and Programming
Chair of SPEAK.

“Winning the CSS award was such
a humbling and exciting experience,”
said Deutsch. “I never really took into
account how much work I did on and
off campus prior to the CSS nomina-
tion, so having my work recognized
was such a wonderful surprise.”

After an informal ﬁve-minute cer-
emony in the Marketplace, two posters
of the Generals of the Month, created
by Director of Publications Ms. Mary
Woodson, are hung in the Marketplace.
The ceremonies are always held on
Thursdays, between ll:30 a.m. and
12:30 p.m.

“We intentionally put the ceremony
on the same day as a special dinner so
that the posters get the widest recog-
nition,” said Rodocker. “On a typical
day, 500 people may come through. On

“Winning the CSS award was such ‘a humbling and exciting experience, ” said

Deutsch. “I never really took into account how much work I did on and oﬂcampus

prior to the CSS nomination, so having my work recognized was such a wonderful

surprise. ”

Joni Deutch ’14

an effort to draw attention to positive
things that occur within student life.
So often people focus on some of the
negatives and that’s what all the con-
versation revolves around.”

According to Rodocker, the CSS
committee is composed of students,
faculty and staff. The committee looks
to award students who add significant
depth to the W&L community, but
aren’t being recognized for their ef-
forts.

The CSS initiative is typically
spread by word-of—mouth: if a friend
is named General of the Month, stu-
dents will usually nominate other peers
that they believe are deserving of the
award. Rodocker hopes that more
members of the W&L community will
participate in the nomination process in
the future. Students can be nominated
at go.wlu.edu/css.

“We’re looking for the person that
is running an organization and doing
it in a really good way, or they’re in-
volved in Habitat for Humanity, but no
one other than those in Habitat know
that,” said Rodocker. “A lot of titnes
it’s notjust one thing, but an accumula-
tion of things — the student is a good
friend to their peers; they’re someone
who is trustworthy and dependable.”

The November Generals of the
Month were recognized for a variety
of activities that they are involved in
across campus. Hamed, who is a dou-
ble major in physics-engineering and
economics, participated in extensive
research studies over the last two sum-
mers, which led to his involvement in
presentations at the American Physical
Society Meeting and the W&L-Virgin-

University-Shenandoah _
opened its season, called;
World,” witha concert con
Europe and Russia.’’. ,.' ~

Conductor of the USS
fomiance of Shostako

societies on campus and have been
awarded a number of scholarships

 

a special dinner, they might have V1000
people.”

Ali Hamad and Jennifer Ritter (above) were Generals of the

Month for November.

throughout their four years at W&L,
according to wlu.edu.

Along with Ritter and Hamed, se-
niors Taylor Gilﬁllan, Alexandra Fer-
nandez, Ronald Magee and Rachel
Pityk, and junior Joni Deutsch have
received the Generals of the Month
award this school year. Both ‘Gilﬁl-
lan and Deutsch were recognized for
their involvement in Orientation Week:
Gilﬁllan served as First Year Orienta-
tion Committee Chair this year and
Sodalis chair in his junior year, while
Deutsch acted as the General Co-Chair
of FYOC this year.

Gilﬁllan is also chapter president of

PHOTO COURTESY OF KEVIN REMINGTON

Rodocker also added that a simi-
lar poster is sent to the students’ high
schools, letting them know that their
graduate has been recognized at W&L.

“It’s doubly beneﬁcial because it is
recognition for the students back home
and is also nice PR for us as a univer-
sity,” Rodocker said.

“I can say that spending time with
the students who are receiving this rec-
ognition is the best reminder I have of
why I do what I do,” Rodocker said.
“It’s exactly why people want to come
to this college, be involved with this
college and work with this college.”

I

,”_;' Tchaikovsky’s “Variations on a Rococo Theme,
op. :33," featuring Julia Goudimova, cellist; and Gold-
fnark’s “Rustic Wedding Symphony.”

, ..On Feb. 2, the USSO will perform its next concert,
titled “Music of Western Europe.” On March 30, it will
 ‘esent “Music of the Americas.” ' ’

eported by Graham_Colton, Head Copy‘Editor

 

i

   

3»
.6’

STAFF WRITER

Earthquake in Guatemala

Guatemala was hit by its biggest earthquake in over thirty years on Wednes-
day. It measured a 7.4 magnitude and left multiple areas of the country in sham-
bles. Landslides that ensued after the quake are making rescue attempts diﬂi-
cult. At least 52 are dead, many missing and countless trapped. Approximately
73,000 people are still without electricity.

China prepares for space mission

China is preparing for its next space mission, officials say. A manned space-
craft, the Shenzhou-I0, is set to launch in June of 2013 carrying two men and
one woman. They will be working on the country’s first experimental space sta-
tion, Tiangong-l, for 15 days.

Suicide bombing in Afghanistan

People across Afghanistan were killed on Thursday by various blasts. A sui-
cide bomber in Kandahar killed at least three policemen and wounded other
citizens. Five soldiers died in a landmine explosion in the eastern region ofthe
country. In addition, a roadside bomb went off in Helmand killing at least ten
people.

Violence continues in Myanmar

Violence continues between Buddhists and Muslims in western Myanmar.
Nobel laureate, Aung San Suu Kyi, encouraged the government to send more
troops to the region in an effort to restore peace. She claimed that more forces
are needed ifthe killings are going to be stopped. The government needs to ac-
cept this responsibility for human rights, she said.

Iran puts ban on “luxury goods”

The government of Iran on Wednesday placed a ban on what it deems “luxu-
ry goods.” This group includes foreign-made cars, laptops, watches, coffee and
more. The list ofitems totaled 75, many ofwhich are basic everyday goods. The
purpose ofthis ban is to save billions of dollars by eliminating many of the na-
tion’s imports. Citizens are now left with no choice but to purchase these items
on the local markets.

Greek citizens demonstrate outside
Parliament on austerity vote

Eartlier last week, nearly 70,000 Greek citizens demonstrated outside Parlia-
ment as austerity measures for the 2013 budget were put to a vote. In order to
repay a 5 billion euro treasury bill on November 16 the Greek government needs
a bailout loan. However, the last austerity measures passed were not sufﬁcient to
receive the loan. Without the economy could easily default this week.

BBC head steps down in the wake of
scandals

The new head of BBC, George Entwistle, stepped down this week after just
two months. He said it was the “honorable thing” to do in the wake of two scan-
dals regarding poor reporting about the alleged sexual misconduct of a former
BBC employee and a former senior politician.

V 1'
.  ‘By HannahyHoward

am, *4. at LEE Ill

“Hands Down the In Host Truckstop In America“
- The Travel channel, Most Extreme Truekstopa

Home Cooked Meals & Sonrkmr Ho.tplral1r_r!

Orderfmm our complete menu
(Jr Jain urfar our ofaur A (J, }'0u[-' (bl.-I-' EA 1‘ .li‘uﬂ"t:.r.'

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday — Friday 6 am — 10:30 am
Saturday 5 5und‘a1,r6 am -1:30 pm

Daily Hui Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am . 10 pm
Soup, Salad. 8. Fruit Barltllweel-:10:3O am - it pm
Friday Mghl Sealoo-:1 Buffet 5 pm - ‘I0 pm
Saturday Night Pod: B80 Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicitenﬁ Port-:LoInt1am-9pm
Fridays. Saturday Late Night Breaklast Buffet 11 pm — 2am

Order Breakfast 24 Heu rs a day, ? days a week!

I-31 8. I-54. Exit 195. 2516 N. Lee Hwy.. Lexington. VA 24450
540-463-3478
www.laahi.com See ourmami amine

 Twitter Qberltysfoud  Find us on Face book

MONDAY,

NOVEMBER 12, 2012

3 ° THE'RlNG-TUM PHI 0

opinions

O

ByJP Beall
OPINIONS EDITOR

When you think of Washington and
Lee and how it came to be, what comes
to mind? Do you think of George Wash-
ington, and how his gift of canal stock
served to keep the young Liberty Hall
going? Do you think about the Lee Pres-
idency, which institutionalized much of
our W&L culture? .

Lee gave this campus many impor-
tant traits that we might be hard pressed
to recognize W&L today without them.
Lee cemented the newly forming Honor

No leeway

System and gave us that “one rule here.”
From this culture of civility, Lee gave
us what we now call the Speaking Tra-
dition. Though sometimes it seems that
there are some people who would have
the Speaking Tradition fall silent.

I think most people here have had
at least one encounter by now with that
one person walking down the brick path-
way—wearing the “I Whale Bob and
George” shi1t—who knows people are
coming, and rather than give a quick
nod, holds out that cell phone for ev-
eryone to see, perhaps fakes a text, and
looks the other way.

First off, we all text and talk while we
walk—l am notorious for it—and some-
times we miss people who smile, nod, or
say “hi.” It’s an honest mistake~maybe
you show that you heard them—and
they understand. I hardly think General
Lee meant for people to drop everything
when pre-occupied and shake every-
one’s hand when between classes.

But he did mean for people to act
honestly and with respect towards other

people in their community.

Let’s face it, if we all talk and text
while we are on the move, we can tell
who is taking rather than acknowledge
that the rules of civility apply to every-
one.

‘'We éaae ﬂat ewe rude 

For one thing, the fakes are trying
way too hard to look like they’re texting
or talking. The pained look of effort is
smudged all over their face like coal-
dust as they struggle to come up with a
line to whisper into their phone or tap
furiously into the keys.

Of course, there’s nothing better than
watching that one person use the old
singing trick, and mouth “watermelon-
watermelon,” and try to look interested
when Silence, equally interested, an-

swers them.

Isn’t it easier at this point to just
make eye contact, or nod, or smile? All
these other tactics, in addition to being
more work, and more transparent, are
ﬂat-out dishonorable, and no amount of

~2a5e¢t 5. .4’ee

W&L tridents or Bob & George pattern
can ﬁx that.

I’m deﬁnitely not saying that people
should be liable for dismissal for snub-
bing someone on the sidewalk. If noth-
ing else, the EC would never leave their
chambers. But the Speaking Tradition
used to be enforced.

Not too long ago, there was a cam-
pus organization called the Assimilation
Committee. It was a group appointed
by and answerable to the EC, and was

on Speaking Tradition

charged with enforcing different things
of cultural importance to W&L, like
wearing blue blazers at Lee Chapel, the
Speaking Tradition and other things.
Students who did not were ticketed.
Never mind the occasions where stu-
dents were just ﬂat out caned by snubbed
upperclassmen.

While an institution like the Assimi-
lation Committee could be a construc-
tive institution here on campus, we are
fortunate to be charged with self-en-
forcement ofthese things. After all, isn’t
that what General Lee wanted us to do,
was to hold ourselves accountable?

Yes, that gives us wiggle room to put
up idiotic pantomime charades with our
cell phones as props, but then you know
what you’re doing and so does everyone
else. But at least you didn’t have to be
bothered for a split-second to return a
friendly gesture.

STAFF WRITER

To: Donald Trump

By Yates Wilburn
Subject: Your Future in American

 Politics

’.

Just so you know where I’m com-
ing from Mr. Trump, I am a Republican.
Now, I’d like to ask you--with nothing
but genuine politeness--to take a few
deep breaths, count to ten, and cease
communication with society at large.

Why, you ask? Well, when you take to
Twitter questioning President Obama’s
citizenship--an issue (if it ever really was
one) settled long ago--declare the death
of democracy when a president wins
electorally but not popularly (which he
didn’t), claim that 2 million votes were
forged, or encourage your fellow Ameri-
cans to take up arms against their legiti-
mately elected government, it presents
several problems. First, less intelligent
people in our own party may take you
seriously, which could be very bad for
their careers, legal situations, and sanity.
Second, less intelligent people OUT-
SIDE our party may take you seriously,
and assume we are all reactionary, in-
ﬂammatory children desperate for atten-
tion. Seeing as we now live in a political
and economic situation that requires the
most respectful and delicate nature of
negotiation and compromise, neither of
these is helpful.

Now, don’t get me wrong, there is

nothing wrong with criticizing, question-
ing, and improving one’s government;
that’s the American way. Furthermore, I
agree that our country is certainly in dire
straights that I felt would be better navi-
gated by Mitt Romney. However, simply
throwing a toddler’s temper-tantrum on
the intemet in the hopes of validating
one’s existence in a desperate bid to stay
relevant is not constructive. For God’s
sake, we have reality TV for a reason.

So, please Mr. Trump, stop talk-
ing politics and head back to where we
like you: reality TV. We lost, President
Obama won, time to adjust to a new real-
ity. I suggest you leave the big decisions
America is facing to the adults--meaning
people with maturity of an l8 year old or
higher. Don’t take it personally, I think
the same of all spoiled children I meet.

In essence Mr. Trump, “you’re ﬁred.”

Sincerely,

Yates Wilburn

P.S. This obviously disregards the fact
that I can’t seem to recall you making a
super big case when President Bush AC-
TUALLY lost the popular vote in 2000
OR that you have donated mountains of
cash to Democrats in the past only to re-
cently ﬁnd your tried and true conserva-
tive feelings in the past year.

the apprentice: done in one

Election leaves America in the weeds

By Julianna Satterly
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Cannabis.
Weed, pot, reefer, grass, ganja, moon-

K. ﬂower, dope, hash, marijuana. Whatever

you call it, Cannabis sativa has made
quite an impact in the world. Chances
are, you’ve smelled it, seen it or smoked
it in your life. But how much do you re-
ally know about the number one illegally
used drug in America? Since legalizing
the stuff has become a front-running
topic of late, I thought I would ﬁll you in
on all things pot. And it is quite possible
that at some point we will be voting here
on the same sensitive bill that just passed
in Colorado and Washington.

A brief history lesson

Indigenous to Central and South
Asia, evidence of psychoactive cannabis
use has been dated as far back as 2,000
years. The ancient Assyrians ﬁrst used
it in religious ceremonies, and the mod-
em name ‘cannabis’ probably comes
from the Assyrian word ‘qunubu’ mean-
ing ‘way to produce smoke.’ Traces of
marijuana have been found all over the
world from the writings of Herodotus
to Shakespeare’s home in England. Pos-
session of the plant was not made illegal
globally until the 20th century, with the
United States leading the crusade. Now
almost every country has outlawed the
possession of any amount of weed.

This is your brain on pot

The active ingredient in Cannabis
sativa is THC, or Tetrahydrocannabinol.
It affects the transmitters of the spinal

cord, and ultimately modiﬁes the way
you feel pleasure and pain, memory,
thought, concentration, time percep-
tion, appetite and motor coordination.
Sound familiar? Other areas of the body
that THC impacts include the heart and
lungs.

There are both negative and positive
effects of using reefer. People claim that
smoking relieves pain, lessens nausea,
decreases stress-related problems, and
even clears up asthma. The downside: a
combination of lowered blood pressure
and increasing heart rate causes smok-
ers to have a 400 percent higher chance
of heart attack. Also, pot users have the
same lung problems as tobacco smokers,
and are three times as likely to get cancer
as a non—user. More obvi-
ously, it hinders
driv- ing and
think-
ing

ability.

Guys, you

might want to

have a seat, because

grass also decreases

sperm production

and functionality if

smoked by young
men.

Informed
voters?
Washington and
Colorado have both

passed bills decriminalizing the posses-
sion of less than an ounce of dope for
people twenty-one and older. Now, stop
jumping up and down, because all is
not rainbows and sunshine in the world.

government is missing a giant opportu-
nity. Yes, ganja affects the brain pretty
severely. So does alcohol. The only real
difference is that hash causes more last-
ing damage. Can you imagine the rev-

housing for cannabis rule-breakers.

Is it worth the cost? I don’t think so.
I’m not saying that I agree with a “pot
for everyone!” world, but I do like the
idea of being debt free. The entrepreneur

0

. Pot is the #1
most used
illegal drug
 m  in the US

crs

mega; pot is a $35 billion imiustry

-4.
.-

Smoking increases the”, ,
odds of cancer 3x,.and 
a 400% greater chance  v  .- ,. 
of heart attack  ’ ‘ ~Cannab‘is has '  
wt;  1 been around for“ ‘

 .,

C0 and WA jo‘ ed the Neth-
erlands’, Peru . _ nd" Danglae-.  =, 
desh as the plac"_es?-Vvhere  ~~ ‘
weed possession is legal ,_ W

 M  ' at
‘ The US annually. , ’
spends $15 billion? 3.‘

’ L

2900 years  

I

 ,_ on Prohibition  I

First, the federal government has not
lifted the ban. What this means for us
is the beginning of a battle between the
states and nation. Technically, the fed-
eral law supersedes state law. Which is
probably the precedent that the Justice
Department will want to set, as this is
the ﬁrst time in history a law of this sort
has been passed anywhere in the world.
So even though two states are pushing
for the Promised Land, chances are high
that they will get shut down.

If you ask my opinion, the federal

enue generated by putting an outrageous
sin tax in place? Economists can, and
they say that the industry could gener-
ate between $44 billion and $100 billion
in revenue for the country. Per year. Can
you say deﬁcit reduction? More ben-
eﬁcially, drug stores popping up sea to
sea would be some serious job inﬂux.
Around 75 jobs per store. If that’s not
incentive, here are some sobering facts
(pun intended): the US spends almost
$14 billion every year in prohibition
costs, plus over $1 billion on prison

in me sees a booming industry ahead,
and I honestly don’t think there’s much
we can do to stop it. The black market al-
ready exists. Legalizing weed would de-
crease the street cost, and therefore drug-
related crime, and completely eliminate
the related black market. A strongly reg-
ulated endeavor can only help us. Mari-
juana (for medicinal purposes) is already
the number one cash crop in California.
All in favor raise yourjoint.

   

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

Now with
4BR/2BA Units. A Two & FOUR
Kitchen, Laundnt

 BEDROOMS
& Huge Living Room  AVAILABLE

    G NE ALS’   °
RETR AT -

NOT f~xfﬁh.:~ma(1 with \Nashingt0r1 5. Lee Ur1i~.n‘2r':5i{‘y'

Townhome Style Apartments
On Nelson Street

2BR / 1BA UNITS and
4BR / 2BA UNITS

WASHER.jTDRYER , WATER, TRASH, FIBER OPTIC INTERNET ALL INCLUDED

  
 

       
       

g1>-I'.IT

,, over here!
*5

‘I ,. ’ ‘ ’ 3, 5 E‘: J
E , ‘ , , ‘X ‘ V;;‘.‘ Ev V V’ ‘I V’
i

<2
i.

,,.vnaI0N

540-464-373
ian@tbmcom.com

 
  

W Volleyball 2. Bus-V~bulI

V

THE QIJTLIDIIF-E MANADCICNT CD

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&Iife

, Dank’s Giving

A collaboration between the General ,

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF WR ITE R

In preparation for Thanksgiving, a
group of student organizations brought
the band Dank Sinatra to campus on
Friday night. Dank Sinatra, based out of
Athens, Ga., is one of the best and most
popular jam bands of the South. The
ﬁve—man band consisted of two guitar-
ists, a bassist, a keys player, and a drum-
mer, all of whom also sang.

Activities Board, the Student Activities
Board, and multiple fraternities includ-
ing KA, SAE, Sigma Chi, and Sigma Nu
presented the band at the Pavilion from
9 p.m. to 12 a.1n. last Friday night. The
goal of the beneﬁt concert was to raise
money to purchase instruments for stu-
dents at the Rockbridge County High

-_i H‘.
Li,-

Name: Eric Rosato’ l3.
Hometown:'Syracuse,_N.Y.- ,
Maj or(s): Biology and Politics ‘
Activities on campus: Mock
Convention, Peer Counseling

Where will you spend
Thanksgiving this year? a

It wﬂl be my first 
outside of the States as I head

to London to visit friends and to
see a Mumford and Sons show.
Trying to honor the holiday in the
UK will prove an interesting task,
undoubtedly, but I’m sure we’ll
dnim something up.

What are you looking most
forward to doing during

A Thanksgiving break?

'I‘raveling and visiting friends in a
setting outside Lexington.

Pumpkin, pecan, apple or
cranberry?
Apple.

ti LI.-:E‘.. LI::i~.-rt

ii‘ Eric Rosato '13     

What will be the hardest pet 

about ieavingwahroi e  .
Forgetting that We have”—to come _ — a

back to ﬁnals and terrn papers V ,

Does your family  any ’
Thanksgiving traditions?

Our neighborhood had an
annual Turkey Bowl in which the
fathers and sons play a game A
of ﬂag football’ on Thanksgiving T
morning before heading off to
celebrate ﬂie holiday with our
families. But as the sons have
gotten older and headed in

different directions, it’s a tradition” .7

that has passed. Other than

V that, it’s.usually arun-of-the_—mil1 _ _

Americanthanksgivingforus. _  , _ it »
i  * T  I'a_vorit_e_clas‘s_atW&L?- ,

f, African.Politi'cs with Professor‘,

What are you most grateful
for? . , ‘ ‘

My health. Then my family and I ‘
friends. » » . _ V

Who would you rather have
at your Thanksgiving table,

comes early to W&L

ah, up .

Band members of Dank Sinatra played from 9 p.m. to 12

.§e,_ ~.

a.m.»last Friday at the Pavilion, doing the

     

benefit /concert to raise money to purchase instruments for Rockbridge County High School students.

School. Tickets were sold the week
before and at the door for $5 each, and
alcohol was available at a cash bar for
students over 2 1.

Like many Pavilion events in the past,
there was a less than impressive turnout,
due to the location as well as poor ad-
vertising. This, however, did not affect
Dank Sinatra’s performance in the least,
who put on a exciting show and stayed in
a great mood regardless ofthe amount of
people there.

Sophomore Patrick Wellborn coin-

: 2+ .
  merited, “l’ve been to every single Dank

Sinatra show at this school, and they
were as good as ever tonight.”

' By Mariel Pearl
S’;__1'A_l_*'F:' WRITER ~

\

. ',lliobertE.,Ilee‘or‘George    
 2 "   
A,  on;.Hisir\strumental_ v— f 

. . . _o11rtding.of nation’
metl'1ing’_.l would be more A '
sted in hearing about V"

A ’  life jor1_.ee;Te_ ' ye
 a chance tositwitliitlte ﬁrst _’

pﬁsildentilof United. States W

andsomeone ‘so pivotal in the . 3’ ’ ‘
" cireation of the institutions that still a

 this nation today would be ,

_ great and something‘: couldn’t

pass up:

A Favorite spot to study on
5 campus? ~ .

 r

.Dickiovick 9 it was a spring term
study abroad program in Ghana.

We had a great group of students -

and professors, the material was
beyond interesting, and there's

, just so_‘methingabout_ being able

Dank’s nonstop three hour show was
ﬁlled with a variety of southem clas-
sics mixed with their own originals. By
blending different music genres together,
the band created a unique sound which
was “something that can only be de-
scribed once it has been experienced,”
according to the group’s biography.

Although there wasn’t a majority ofthe
student body present, every person who
attended seemed to have a fantastic time.
At midnight, Dank Sinatra ﬁnished off
their set with a glorious, electric guitar-
led Star Spangled Banner. After speak-
ing with the band after the performance,
they expressed that they really enjoyed

to immerse yourself in the culture
and its people that can’t be
matched by a simple classroom
lecture. It is an experience I will

V take with me for years to come.

the show and would love to come back
and play again at Washington & Lee.

Said bass player Clint Meadows:
“We’re not going to worry about where
this band will be in two to three years.
We’re thinking about where this band is
right now and what things we can do to
improve and master the sound of Dank
Sinatra for our fans and ourselves alike.”

Hopefully in the future, Dank Sinatra
will return to play many more shows
where many more students will be able
to attend.

  

What do you do in your spare

’ time?

Spare time?

  Caroline Bearden '16

 blame: Caroline Bearden ‘ 16

_.‘_'I-Iometown:Summit,N.].
I ,_ Major(s): Business _

I  ‘, 'ties'onpus:Riding

Team, Outing Club

. 4 Where will you spend

_At home. _

i if  are you most loo’

S forward to doing during
Thanksgiving break?

. Seeing my family, catching up

with friends, and relaxing!

 iwhatwillbethehardest

part about leaving W&L for a

week?

Missing all of my friends here

Pumpkin, Pecan, Apple or
Cranberry?
Pumpkin.

Describe yourself in three
words.
Determined, nice, easy-going.

Favorite spot to study on
campus?
Book Nook in Leyburn.

Ifyou could choose to stay a

certain age forever, what age

would it be?

All ages have their advantages
and disadvantages, I wouldn’t
want to live forever and miss
the things that come later in
life.

and the freedom of college life.

Who would you rather have
at your Thanksgiving table,
Robert E. Lee or George
Washington? ‘ Why?’

Robert E. Lee — he is just the
ultimate gentleman and man of
honor (not that George isn’t, of
course).

 

 

 

 

' THE RING-TUM PHI -

M O N DAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

arts&Iife

 

 

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

For most families, Thanksgiving is a
time of reﬂection and rest. It is one of
those all-too-rare days when we can
come together to share a‘ meal, recall

memories of the years gone by, and

show gratitude for those we love. But for
some students, this Thanksgiving break
won’t be what we have all come to ex-
pect. Those who will be traveling home
to places hard-struck by recent weather
catastrophes are in for a far different ex-
perience.

Students from New York City, New
Jersey, and Long Island have been hear-
ing stories for weeks about the chaos in
their hometowns. After Hurricane Sandy
struck, it left a host of issues in its wake.

Some families have been living without .

power for more than two weeks. With
the chilly weather of November well
underway, the loss of heat is more than
merely an inconvenience.

Said Frank Diez ’ 14 of Bronx, N.Y.: “I
didn’t have any power in my house for
almost a week. My mom couldn’t stay
in her house because nothing was work-
ing.”

“My family lost power on the 29th and,
with the recent snow storm, they’re not
expected to get power back until the 13th
at the earliest,” said Kristina Seon ’l5 of
Long Island, N.Y. “It’s frustrating being
here and knowing my family is going
through this. It’s incredible how much
we rely on electricity now and they don’t
have any of it.”

 

   

9-at.

Hurricane Sandy proved to be the most
destructive storm in the history of Con
Edison, the energy company which pro-
vides electricity to much of New York
City. 174,680 customers lost power on
Staten Island alone. While turning the
power back on is the company’s main
priority, many homeowners now have
to contend with the damages from the
ﬂood which might delay the restoration
of electricity.

According to Diez, “I know that most
of Manhattan got ﬂooded. My friends
who live in the lower part of Manhattan
were forced to stay home because every-
thing was so ﬂooded. There wasn’t any-
where to go.”

Furthermore, New York City and New
Jersey have become subject to fuel short-
ages. For the ﬁrst time since the 1970s,
officials have started rationing gasoline.
This posed a huge problem in recent
weeks for parents of W&L students, who
had planned on visiting campus for Par-
ents’ Weekend.

“There were hour-long lines at the
few pumps that were still working, and
sometimes they ran out before everyone
had a chance to reﬁll, so people had wait-
ed hours for nothing,” said Sarah Scaf-
ﬁdi ’l5 from New York City. “My mom
was able to make it down to see me for
Parents’ Weekend, but she had to drive
an hour upstate to get gas because there
is such a shortage in our neighborhood
and in New Jersey.”

. . . I

passerby examln the extensive damage lft behind by Hurricane Sandy at the

Shenerock Shore Club in Rye, N.Y.

I

  

.- ‘ -..i J’, » '
_‘/mi’ 

_ .

  

5

«L:

‘ iii’ «J:

This aerial photo shows a collapsed house along the central Jersey Shore coast on Wednesday, Oct.

31, 2012. New Jersey got the brunt of Sandy, which made landfall in the state and killed six people.
More than 2 million customers were without power as of Wednesday afternoon, down from a peak

of 2.7 million.

With Break right around the comer,
students from these areas are gearing up
for the unexpected. Though the clean-up
has been a slow process, the city has be-
gun to repair itself.

Said Seon: “The city is still trying to
get back on its feet too. I think Thanks-
giving is going to have a different feel
this year, [and we will be] thankful for
things that we didn’t think about before.”

f .

- KATHRYN LANG

  

MIKE GROLL/AP PHOTO

  

‘PI
2.’.

, ‘  ru
‘ 3% ..

A car goes through the high water as Hurricane Sandy bears down

 

on the East Coast, Sunday, Oct. 28, 2012, in Ocean City, Md.
Governors from North Carolina, where steady rains were whipped
by gusting winds Saturday night, to Connecticut declared states of
emergency. Delaware ordered mandatory evacuations for coastal

communities by 8 p.m. Sunday.

ALEX BRANDON/AP PHOTO

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

.IP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
MARIEL PEARL
BAILEY RUSSELL
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to'edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

For Politics Professor Eduardo Velas-
quez, spinning isn’t just a fonn of exer-
cise, but rather a source of revival from
a debilitating illness. “Spinning brought
me back to life, literally,” said Velasquez.

Several years ago, the Colombian-bom
professor was diagnosed with Lyme dis-
ease. It took 15 years before he was ﬁnally
diagnosed, allowing the bacteria to spread
into his system and brutally alter his me-
tabolism and sleeping patterns.

According to Velasquez, many students
unconsciously carry Lyme diseases. “It
just completely incapacitated me,” said
Velasquez about the illness. “At that
point, I thought: ‘my career is over.’”

Before physicians could ﬁnd the cause
of Velasquez’s pain, his body could hardly
handle simple, everyday tasks. “I came to
the point where walking up four ﬂights
of steps was painful,” he said. “I wanted
to move my body, but everything hurt so
much that I couldn’t even exercise.”

In October 2009, the pain became so se-
vere that Velasquez was forced to take a
leave of absence, with the advice of sev-
eral professionals. However, even Lyme
wasn’t strong enough to stop his tenacious
character.

“I have spoken with and continue to

Professor Eduardo Velasquez gives
politics a whole new “spin.”

speak with students devastated by ill-

  

A new spin on

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

things

   

Professor Velasqez, aka Eddie V, will be teachingspin classes Mon-
day, Wednesday, Friday at 12:15 p.m. during winter term.

nesses they don’t yet fully comprehend
-- because even specialists don’t,” he said.
With the help of a heavy dose of hope and
antibiotics, Velasquez began his career
on the bike. The slow peddling at the
start of his spinning career is symbolic
of his incremental recovery, where each
step forward is like one turn higher on

4 the bike dial.

Although his “body is not what it was,”

. he uses every ounce of strength left to

teach spin classes at the University, with

' the goal of helping others feel happy and
I supported. “I surrender to spin and cel-
- ebrate that life is a gift,” said Velasquez.

“Whatever that is reminds me that we are
not alone in this universe.”

Velasquez’s spin classes are more than
just a series of scheduled workouts. He
uses his background music to create
trust with his students. With the help of
social media, it’s “impossible” not to
get to know his students on a personal
level. This week, he used ﬁrst-year spin
student Elizabeth McGarry’s online Spo-
tify playlist during class. He also creates

Facebook pages for his politics and spin
classes.

Professor Velasquez spins like there’s no
tomorrow, as he says spinning tomorrow
is no guarantee. He tends to smile after
every workout “because me teaching spin
does not make sense.” After all, he never
imagined that he would be in the condition
he is in today - feeling stronger and better
than ever before.

“My illness is an odd sort of blessing.
It reminds me at every moment that that
moment is all we have, and we don’t even
have that,” said Velasquez. “I can’t avoid
the conclusion that I am a better person
for it.”

EddieV’s spin classes will be held Mon-
day, Wednesday, and Friday at 12:15 p.m.
during winter term. He will be offering a
spring term course titled, “A Course About
Nothing,” where he will incorporate spin
and yoga into teaching about getting out
of our heads and learning to be present in
everything we do. Check out his spinning
Facebook page online!

Going home to fmily and Sandy ,

-er

 

 

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

..Sp0I‘t

 

By Sarah Ward
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee rounded out the
regular season with a 42-23 win over
Shenandoah in Lexington on Saturday
afternoon. With 4:10 left in the ﬁrst quar-

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

ter, senior running back Sasha Vandalov
ran six yards for a touchdown, posting

the only points for either team in the ﬁrst
quarter.

Shenandoah scored the first points in
the second quarter, completing a ﬁeld

    

goal with 12:38 left. The Generals re-
sponded with two touchdowns in the last

~ W&L takes Shenandoa

43 seconds of the ﬁrst half. Vandalov ran
four yards for his second touchdown of
the afternoon.

The ﬁrst play ofthe Hornets’ next drive
resulted in a fumble recovered by the

,  Generals and consequently a 13-yard
‘ i pass from junior quarterback Nick Lom-
i bardo into the endzone to junior tight end

Alex Evans with just 26 seconds left in

- the half to bring the score to 21-3.

The Generals began the second half
with a four yard touchdown run by se-
nior running back Brett Murray as a
result of an interception by senior line-
backer Zach Zoller. The Hornets then
scored a touchdown on their next drive
to end the third quarter with the Generals
up 28-10.

W&L scored the ﬁrst points ofthe ﬁnal
quarter as well with yet another touch-
down by Vandalov, who ran 22 yards to
reach the endzone. Sophomore kicker

*' Joe Campbell took over kicking duties

from senior Luke Heinsohn after Van-
da1ov’s third touchdown to score his ﬁrst
point ofthe game.

Several ﬁrst-year players saw time
in the fourth quarter, including fresh-
man running back Jimmy Moynahan
who scored his first career touchdown
on a three yard run with 8:03 left in the
game. Shenandoah scored two additional

h, next NCAAs A

Defensive back Jeff Schulte and inner line backer Peter Partee

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

touchdowns in the fourth quarter, but the
Generals still ﬁnished on top with a ﬁnal
score of 42-23.

Kevin Travaline, Jake Pelton, and Wal-
ter Ramsey each had six tackles on de-
fense for the Generals.

The Generals now await their matchup

for their first NCAA Division III playoff
game, which will be announced on Sun-
day night. W&L, the ODAC champions,
earned an automatic bid with their win
last Saturday over Hampden-Sydney.

Rugby comes with challenge and responsibilty

By Hendley Badcock
STA F F w R I T E R

As with many club sports, the rich tra-
dition and spirited camaraderie of Wash-
ington & Lee Minks Rugby Club provide
players with an enjoyable environment
to compete and challenge both them-
selves and their teammates. According

to Coach John Welsh, rugby’s inclusive- A

ness is what makes the sport so distinct.
He explains, “there truly is a position for
everyone on the ﬁeld [as] each position
demands something different.”
Generally, the team consists of twenty-
ﬁve men; ﬁfteen players comprise an
“A” and a “B” side during match play.

This year, seven seniors have led the
club through the regular season with a
5-1 record.

Watching the complex plays and
unique formations for the ﬁrst time can
undoubtedly lead to some confusion
about rugby. Having to learn and enact
those plays brings out a whole new level
of devotion to the sport.

“You deﬁnitely have to want to learn,”
ﬁrst-year Wilson Prioleau states. Sur-
prisingly, 80% of the club has never
been exposed to rugby before. Prioleau,
a ﬁrst-time player, recalls how it took a

couple of games to really ﬁgure out their
positions. Fellow ﬁrst-year Blake Odom
agrees. “It was pretty easy to pick up be-
cause most of the other freshman hadn’t
played either,” said Odom. Welsh and
Coach Tom Lovell, as well as the upper-
classmen, always offer help and encour-
agement to the younger players. Welsh
himself began playing rugby at Radford
University before participating in the
Roanoke Men’s Club.

Minks rugby competes in the Virginia
Rugby Union against Lynchburg Col-
lege, Roanoke College, Hampton Syd-

ney, Mary Washington, and Christopher
Newport, their most challenging oppo-
nent. Outside of ofﬁcial matches, rugby
also plays against some Division I and
11 teams, namely VMI and James Madi-
son University. From mid-August to the
beginning of November, Minks rugby
participated in the fall season; beginning
after February break, they will advance
to the spring post-season. “Even if we

don’t make the post season [due to our

fall season rankingll we still schedule
tournaments and matches,” Welsh states.
“Players not only learn how to compete

but how to handle the responsibility of
managing a team,” Welsh remarks. A
club sport, rugby requires much leader-
ship from players to handle everything
from scheduling matches to managing
ﬁscal issues. These jobs are distributed
amone...:h,e.. I.{IP.$.i§1§,£1t;.,,.££9aS‘1¥9?§a.;.§§l?L"¢h
secretary, recruiting chair, and captain.

Rugby welcomes new players at any
time; those interested should contact
rugby President Jack Gallagher, galla-
gherj13@mai1.wlu.edu. Practice takes
place every Tuesday, Thursday, and Fri-
day, 4:00-6:00 on Fudge Field.

Volleyball falls in the first round of the NCAA tournament

By Shelby Flores
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington & Lee volleyball team
will not move on in the NCAA Tourna-
ment after a loss to ﬁfth-ranked Christo-
pher Newport University last Friday.

The Generals kept the ﬁrst and third
games close but were unable to pull out
the win in the 25-22, 25-11, 25-20 loss to
the Captains.

CNU’s strong blocking kept W&L at

Kyle leger

a .099 hitting percentage. Head Coach
Bryan Snyder said that CNU blocked
better against them than the ﬁrst time the
teams met in early October.

“In general, both teams played at a
higher level,” Snyder said. “We just
eouldn’t come up with a big kill when
we needed it.”

First-year outside hitter Anna Lausberg

led the Generals with 14 kills in her ﬁrst
NCAA Tournament appearance. Junior
setter Meghan Meleski and ﬁrst-year
libero Kasey Cannon led the team with
nine digs a piece.

The loss ends the 2012 season for the
Generals. The team ﬁnished the season
with a 26-10 overall record and a 10-1

conference record. This year

marked the team’s 13th ODAC title and
its 11th trip to the NCAA Tournament.

Snyder is happy with the improvement
his team made this year and he says he is
excited for next year. The Generals will
return all 12 players next season, includ-
ing seven ﬁrst-years.

“We can continue to build and improve,
rather than try to rebuild,” Snyder said.

Coach Snyder says he would like to
thank the players, the coaching staff,
the athletic training staff, and everyone
else who supported the team this year for
making the 2012 season so successful. _

Hailey Hartley

Michael Vick is perhaps the most polarizing quar-
terback to ever play in the NFL. Vick has dazzled
fans for years with his unique skill set, but shocked
them with his off.the ﬁeld issues. In 2007, he was
implicated in a dog-ﬁghting ring and it seemed that
his career was over. The Falcons, his former team,
were disgraced and promptly released him. After
serving jail time and ﬁling for bankruptcy, the Ea-
gles took a chance on him. Initially not the starter,
Vick worked hard and created a QB controversy,
earning the starting job. In 2010, his second year
with the Eagles, Vick was a revelation, however,
he has been in a downward spiral ever since.

It appears that Vick has reached another rock bot-
tom in his career. This season, the Eagles are 3-5,
following last years performance in which an in-
credible offseason earned them the “dream-team”
label. Vick led this so-called dream team to a dis-
appointing 8-8 record. This season is going even
worse. Through eight games, Vick has thrown 9
interceptions and fumbled 10 times. Vick has been
so bad that Andy Reid, one of the longest tenured
coaches in the NFL, might lose hisjob.

Not only has Vick been bad on the ﬁeld, he has
created controversy off it. His brother, Marcus
Vick, recently tweeted during last week’s Eagles —
Saints game,“P1ease trade my brother. We request-
ing out of Philly! ! 1! Please please please.” Michael
Vick had nothing to do with the tweet, but the
peop1e"who Vick surrounds himself with have let
him down yet again. Michael Vick has not handled
the press particularly well himself, either. When
asked how he felt about his potential benching,
Vick said he would support Andy Reid’s decision.
Vick should’ve been more outspoken, asserting
himself as a leader and claiming his stake as the
startinggquarterback. Instead, he appeared unsure
and timid.

After two disappointing seasons, Andy Reid

is on the hot
seat. In order
to protect his
job, Reid needs
to make changes,
to show the orga-

  
 
  

A losing re-
cord is never
really accept-
able in the NFL;
with only 16 games
in a season, even

nization and their

fans that he is still
a great head coach.
The change started
with the ﬁring of
defensive coordi-

he Eagles have been struggling this season. They are
3-6 and are at the bottom of the NFC East standings.
Who is to blame, Quarterback Michael Vick or Head
. Coach Andy Reid?
Kyle and Hailey line up on the issue.

week one can have
playoff implications.
The NFC East has tra-
ditionally been one of
the toughest divisions

nator Juan Castillo.

Vick will be next.

The Eagles have rookie Nick Foles waiting in the
wings for his opportunity. Reid can bench Vick and
insert Foles, and if Foles shows promise and wins
some games, Reid’s career could be salvaged.

Starting Nick Foles is a win-win move for the
Eagles. If he performs well, the Eagles have found
their quarterback for the future. If Foles tanks, the
Eagles will have a better shot at a high draft pick,
where they can select a long-term solution to their
quarterback problem.

The Eagles organization is in a state of disarray.
The team has failed to meet expectations time and
time again. The Eagles have some great pieces on
both sides of the ball, but a struggling quarterback
and offensive line has kept them from reaching
their potential. Andy Reid needs to do something
soon, for the team and for his own sake. It appears
that change will be starting Nick Foles at quarter-
back. No one can know for sure when this impend-
ing move will happen, but it seems inevitable. If
the Eagles lose to the Cowboys this weekend, and
Vick continues his poor play, get ready for Nick
Foles against the Redskins on November 18th.

in the league. The Gi-
ants are the defending
Super Bowl champions, and the division race is
always close.

The Philadelphia Eagles are 3-5, home to some
of the toughest fans in the nation, and people are
calling for heads. When Michael Vick arrived,
fans and NFL experts believed that this was the
Eagles’ time. They picked up huge defensive free
agents last year in Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie
and Nnamdi Asomugha. The Eagles were poised
to be the Miami Heat of the NFL. So what isn’t
working?

One of the most frequent suggestions to help
ﬁx this err-er-prone team is to bench Michael
Vick. The guy’s status as a superstar just hasn’t
been what it was when he was in Atlanta. There
are flashes of his brilliance, and then he drops the
ball... and not on purpose. But should Vick really
be benched? Probably not.

Nick Foles deﬁnitely is not the answer. Mi-
chael Vick hasn’t lost his talent; he seems to have
lost his direction. His offensive line is horren-
dous, and the few times he actually gets a chance
to do something with the ball he’s probably so

 

shocked he forgets what he’s supposed to be do-
ing. Hence the 19 turnovers. The team is talented
and under the right direction, they could be living
up to the standards that they have set for them-
selves. -

The solution for the Eagles is for Andy Reid
to step down as head coach. The guy has had a
rough year, no one can blame him for that, but
his inability to inspire and drive his team is unac-
ceptable. He’s been a great coach and loyal to
the Eagles, but his time as head coach is winding
down. I believe that given a new coaching staff,
the Eagles can play at the highest level. If they
are able to come out strong the second half of the
season, Philadelphia can still salvage the season.
Their best chance of doing this is with Michael
Vick under center.

 

 

 

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

s ports

 

in the numbers
10

The total number of weeks in a row that the Ala-
bama Crimson Tide spent at the top of the Associ-
ated Press college football poll. Alabama fell to
fourth this week after losing to Texas A&M on Sat-

urday, 29-24, while at home.

76

The total number of goals that Lionel Messi has scored
this calendar year. He scored numbers 75 and 76 to take
the record from Pele when Barcelona beat Mallorca on Sat-
urday. He is also nine goals away from Gerd Mueller’s career

record.

17

The average point differential for the New York Knicks this
season. The next highest for any team is the Miami Heat
with 9.5. The Knicks are 4-0 while the Heat are 5-1, with

their only loss going to the Knicks.

55

The total number of points that the Baltimore Ravens
scored in their game versus the Oakland Raiders on Satur-
day. This is a franchise record for the Ravens. This also ties
the Raiders’ franchise record for points allowed. The Raid-
ers allowed 55 points twice before, once in 1961 and again

in 1981.

420
The total number of touchdowns that Peyton Manning has
thrown in his career. He threw number 420 while leading
the Denver Broncos over the Carolina Panthers on Sunday.
He is now second on the all-time list. Only Brett Favre has

-thrown more touchdowns in a single career, with 508.

Congratulations to Molly Ortiz and Lauren
Schultz for earning bids to the NCAA Cross
Country Championship. They earned their bids
by placing eighth and ninth respectively at
the South/Southeast Regional Championships
on Saturday at Emory University. The National
Championship is Nov. 17 at Terre Haute, lnd.

 
 
 
 
 

.. -v‘:

W&L Voted last in
ODAC preseason poll

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

The Old Dominion Athletic Conference re-
leased its 2012 Women’s Basketball Preseason
Coaches Poll and placed the Generals at 12th
place. Guilford, the defending ODAC cham-
pion, received eight ﬁrst-place votes and took
the top spot in the coaches’ poll.

Washington & Lee will return with
ﬁve players and two starters from the 2011-12
team that went I4-13 overall and 11-9 in the
conference. The Generals progressed to the
ODAC semiﬁnals, where they lost to Virginia-
Wesleyan, 60-58.

Senior forwards Rachel Warrick and
Katy Wilson return as the top two scorers.
Warrick started 26 games last season and aver-
aged 8.1 points per game and 4.0 rebounds per
game. Wilson, a 2012 Third Team All-ODAC
selection, started all 27 games last season and

had 11.8 points per game and 8.8 rebounds per 

game.

The Generals’ team will feature 11
members, including ﬁve ﬁrst-years. W&L
begins the season under the direction of new
head coach Christine Clancy on Thursday in
Roanoke for a 7:00 p.m. game.

enlor Katy Wilson
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Women’s swimming leaves
Sweet Br1ar 1n the1r wake

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s swimming
team won their only match this week when
they visited Sweet Briar by a score of 114-78.
The Generals swept ﬁve individual events in
the match-up and set four pool records.

In the 200 Free, ﬁrst-year Sarah Schaffer
won with a pool record of 2:12.73. Sopho-
more Kate Feeser and senior Kelly Mae Ross
rounded out the top three. The Gennies also
swept the 800 Free, led by Sydney Gay. Re-
becca Brown, Emma Swabb, and Rachel
Adams-Heard, taking the top three spots re-
spectively, swept the 50 Free. Sophomore

Caroline Hamp led the 200 Individual Medley
efforts and Colleen Moore won the 200 Fly.
The Generals set several relay pool re-
cords, including the 200 Medley. A time of
2:06.61 was set by Hamp, ﬁrst-year Stephanie
Foster, Swabb, and Schaffer. Foster"s leg of
the 50 back set an individual pool record. The
400 Medley, made up by Swabb, Schaffer, se-
nior Delaney Rolfe and sophomore Meredith
Hardy set a pool record with a time of4:09.28.

 *3

  

 

The Generals will return to the pool when r.

they travel to Carnegie Mellon fora quad meet
on Nov. 17.

Junior Katie D’lnnocenzo
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Monday

Men's Basketball

Snyder sets up the
Volleyball team for success

By Pat McCarron
STA F F w R l T E R

Having grown up in rural Ohio and Pennsyl-
vania towns and attended Washington and Lee
during his college years, Coach Bryan Snyder
is no stranger to the tight-knit community of
W&L. Perhaps it is his upbringing that makes
him the perfect coach to bring teams together,
to get the most out of his players. The last
eleven seasons for W&L’s women’s volleyball
team prove this notion.

On Nov. 3 the volleyball team won its ninth
Old Dominion Athletic Conference title under
Coach Snyder’s tenure, a reign that has also
brought him the honor of ODAC Coach of
the Year eight times. His team moved on to
the NCAA tournament, where they hoped to

 expound upon the team’s already successful
"  2012 campaign.

But don’t expect Coach Snyder to place
much value on his Coach of the Year acco-
lades. He says they mean little to him person-
ally. He prefers to view them as a representa-

 tion of the team’s success as a whole:

“[They are a] sign that the program is very

strong, but there were years when another

oach deserved it and didn’t win. It’s just

~. given to the best team, but not really the best

coach,” said Snyder. “But it validates all the
hard work and it’s something I’m very proud
of.”

Snyder tends to credit his team more than

. himself, but his guidance has instilled key val-
‘ ues into his players. As is necessary for suc-

cess in any sport, Snyder demands “consistent

Tuesday Wednesday

hard work,” something that as a coach, he has
prided himself on his whole life. The bottom
line is, the players know what they are getting
themselves into: they are put to work every
day, and are placed in a tough schedule. But
according to Snyder, the key attributes of the
typical W&L student athlete allow his players
to rise to the challenge.

“The student athletes of W&L are great: they
are willing to be pushed and respond to that. A
great coach without great players is nothing,”
said Snyder.

Bryan Snyder knows a thing or two about
the typical W&L student. He is one. Before
graduating from W&L in 1995, Coach Sny-
der played for W&L’s club men’s volleyball
team. This was not any ordinary club team.
Snyder was pitted against some of‘ the great
club teams in the area, challenging the likes
of Duke and the University of Virginia in the
Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association
South Conference. In addition to serving four

years in the men’s volleyball club team, Coach '

Snyder honed his coaching skills as a student
assistant for W&L’s women’s team. He has
not stopped coaching since.

Although his return as a General was not
immediate upon his graduation, there is no
questioning Coach Snyder’s allegiance to the
school, and it was his familiar sense of com-
munity that brought him back. When asked to
return, Coach Snyder did not hesitate.

“To be able to come here and impact their

Thursday - Friday

at Rutgers-Newark 6pm

experience in a positive way was something I
couldn’t pass up,” said Snyder.

The most special aspect ofcoaching at W&L
has been the relationships he has formed over
the years. Having gone through the experienc-
es of his athletes himself, he “can share suc-
cesses and support through challenges.” These
relationships have hardly been limited to the
prototypical coach-player bond. Whether it’s
attending a former player’s wedding or a sim-
ple visit during alumni weekend, the relation-
ships he has built with his players have formed
lasting memories that he will forever cherish.

The prospects‘ were high this year, as W&L’s
youngest, and perhaps most well-rounded
team headed to the most important games of
the season.

“This year’s team, from top to bottom, is
skilled in all areas. We have no specialists and
the skill level all-around is probably the high-
est it’s ever been. We’re not as big, but we’re
athletic and fast. Everybody can do everything
and we have a plain style and system this year
where were wide open.”

Although the Generals lost in the ﬁrst round
of the NCAA tournament, next year they will
lose just one senior from this year’s team.

  

Saturday Sunday

at Rutgers-Newark

Women’s Swimming

at Carnegie Mellon

Men's Swimming

at Carnegie Mellon

a.

Women’s Basketball

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs Swarthmore 7pm at Swarthmore

Cross Country

NCAA’s

Football

at Hobart

Wrestling

at George Mason

 

V.

  
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
 

 

 

 

 

KT‘
$78. 755
R551

Ilé

no, to

  

 

  

I It’s anew

    term, and this is one class all
i youifirst-years are going to want to take

_A&L / page 7

‘WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY    -  

' THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS" SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXV||,NUMBER10

Crunch time for intern applicants

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

With ﬁnal exams approaching and
winter term around the corner, the Ca-
reer Development Center is anticipating
an increase in the number of students
contacting the office for assistance with
job and internship applications.

According to Assistant Director of
the Career Development Center Ms.
Kimberly Phillips, prime internship
recruiting takes place from January to
March. As soon as students return from
winter break, the internship process is in
full swing.

' Phillips said that while the majority
of students begin to visit the office after
the first of the year, this year she has no-
ticed an inﬂux in the number'of students
seeking help from the Career Develop-
ment Center in the fall.

“Students see classmates who are
looking at investment banking and po-
sitions in ﬁnance, which typically hire
very early,” Phillips said. “Students in
other disciplines start thinking about it
earlier because their classmates are get-
ting offers and already have internships
lined up.” .

Phillips said that she is pleased to see
this type of proactivity from students be-
cause deadlines approach very quickly

and there are several steps that make up
the internship application process.

‘‘In general, students who are looking
for internships need to be thinking about
putting together their resume, network-

of the College. The Johnson Opportunity
Grant is also an option, which Phillips
considers to be one of the best grants
that a student can apply for.

According to wlu.edu, the Johnson

(K

- n general, students who are looking for internships

need to be thinking about putting together their resume,

networking with other people and coming into our oﬁice

to have a conversation about what they need to be doing

right now to meet deadlines. ’

J

KIMBERLY PHlLLIPS,‘Assistant Director of Career Development

ing with other people and coming into
our office to have a conversation about
what they need to be doing right now to
meet deadlines,” said Phillips.

in addition to internship applications
and creating a resume, students also
have the opportunity to apply for vari-
ous grants and fellowships to support an
unpaid summer internship. According to
Phillips, there is a list of several grant
and fellowship applications on the sec-
tion of the school website for the Dean

Opportunity Grant is available to sopho-
mores and juniors participating in spring
or summer experiences across the globe.
Between 20 and 30 students who are, se-
lected each year by a committee of fac-
ulty, staff and previous grant winners,
receive an award between $1,000 and
$4,500.

Phillips said that the award is put
toward a variety of expenses, such as
transportation to and from the location
of the internship or living expenses if the

student is working in an area outside of
their hometown.

“Some students ﬁnd great opportuni-
ties where they can learn a lot and‘ it’s
just something that is relevant to what
they want to do in the future, but is un-
paid,” said Phillips. “The students are
looking for funding to get them where
they want to be — to have this great expe-
rience that could really help them."

Another beneﬁt to the Johnson Op-
portunity Grant, according to Phillips,
is that the grant is exclusively for Wash-
ington and Lee students, narrowing the
competition and increasing the likeli-
hood of receiving an award. Phillips said
that while there are a handful of students
who take advantage ofthe grant, she be-

lieves that not enough students are aware ~

of it, but should take the time to apply.
“The application process isn’t very
lengthy, but there are several coInpo-
nents: a professional resume, a personal
statement about why they want to have
this experience and the money, and how
this will help them down the road," said
Phillips. “They also need recommenda-
tions from faculty,” Phillips said.
Previous grant winners have stud-
ied and interned across the globe, from

Shanghai, to Ghana, to Costa Rica, ac-
cording to wlu.edu. Junior Dillon My-
ers applied for the Johnson Opportunity
Grant to intern at a ﬁnancial company in
Shanghai, China, and according to wlu.
edu, used his grant to pay for the high
cost ofliving and travel. Myers not only
gained professional experience as a ﬁ-
nance intern. but also had the opportu-

,nity to polish his Chinese by conversing

with subway passengers during his daily
commute.

Senior Jina Park, another Johnson
Opportunity Grant winner, used her
grant award to participate in a clinical
service opportunity in San Jose, Costa
Rica. According to wlu.edu, Park said, “I
thought that volunteering in developing
countries such as Costa Rica would not
only offer me a better understanding of
the clinical and medical dynamics ofthe
country, but also provide another pur-
pose of pursuing a career in medicine.”

Phillips added, “The Johnson Oppor-
tunity Grant is a great oppoitunity for
students who find experiences that could
really beneﬁt them, not only academical-
ly, but ,in ways that ﬁt with their personal
and professional goals.”

Mock Con1O

By’ Randy Karlson
STAFF w R ITER

On the morning of Nov. 7, Presi-
dent Barack Obama was re-elected to
a second term, which means one thing
at Washington and Lee: the next Mock
Convention will be for the Republican
Party.

First-years will have the chance to
lead this event.

Mock Con has been a Washington
and Lee tradition since 1908, the'second
oldest in the country to the convention
at Oberlin College, which dates back
to pre-Civil War times. Our convention
predicts the winner of the primary elec-
tions of the out-of-power party for every
Presidential election.

The students in charge of Mock Con
are able ‘to predict the nominees using
research. Since 1948, the only times that
the committee has gotten a prediction
wrong was in 1972 when they chose
Edward Kennedy over George McGov-
ern, and in 2008 when they chose Hilary
Clinton instead of Barack Obama.

Last year, the delegates correctly
chose Mitt Romney, with 1781 votes,
more than 1500 votes more than Newt
Gingrich, the runner-up in the conven-

. tion.

Not only is Mock Con an extremely
accurate and serious event, it is also full
of fanfare and revelry. The ﬁrst event
leading up to the convention is the

spring kickoff, during the spring prior to
the event. The Presidential gala follows
in the fall. There is also a big parade
through the streets of Lexington during
convention weekend.

The separate events leading up to
Mock Con are coupled with famous
speakers and debatesjln the past, the
event has drawn names such as Jesse
Jackson, Jack Kemp, Lamar Alexander,
Jon Huntsman, Jr., Herman Cain, Mike
Huckabee, and James Carville and Ann
Coulter in a debate.

For students interested in being a part
ofthe next Mock Con, applications will
be accepted until Dec. 7 for both Politi-
cal and General Chair and the Executive
Treasurer. All three of these positions
are up for grabs this year. Students in-
terested in accounting are encouraged to
apply for Executive Treasurer, the nerds
among the group are encouraged to ap-
ply for Political Chair, and those inter-
ested in management are encouraged
to apply for General Chair, according
to Ali Greenberg, senior and Facilities
Chair from last year’s convention.

The Executive Treasurer is a new
member of the Tri-Chairs and is in
charge of all monetary funds for the
event -- the unofﬁcial “CFO” of the
convention.

Greenberg said they are looking for

“an extremely motivated and attentive
student to oversee and implement [their
large budget] as the Executive Trea-
surer.”

“It is a large responsibility, as the Ex-

ecutive Treasurer manages every single -

ﬁnancial aspect of the convention,” said
Greenberg. The position is extremely
important in terms of the convention
and will provide great experience for
anyone looking to enter an accounting
ﬁeld after graduation.

The position of General Chair is the
head of the whole convention, which has
many different responsibilities. Some of
those responsibilities include managing
people and many moving parts, running
meetings, maintaining a unifying vi-
sion for the organization and making all
parts of the organization cohesive.

The position of Political Chair is the
ideological leader of the organization.
This person must have “a passion for
politics” and a “vast understanding of
the current and past political landscapes
as well as an intense desire to learn,”
said Greenberg. Some of the respon-
sibilities of the Political Chair include
running the political research process,
overseeing the political team and con-
ducting extensive research.

Attention!    

[F C announced that new member education
activities will not be permitted on Tuesdays

By Hamlet Fort
STAFF WRITER

     
         
 
    

      
     
   

The Washington and Lee Inter-Fraternity
Council took a step towards improving New ;
Member Education on Monday, electing to A
eliminate all pledgeship activities on each

Tuesday during the winter.

 
     
      
 
     
   

The IF C, at the suggestion of the
Student Affairs Committee, took a
survey of all fraternity presidents and
the new measure was passed by a ma-

 
 
     
     
 

jority. The SAC, concerned with the

 
   

quality of life of New Members as 
it pertains to grades, sleep patterns 
and overall health, presented a re- .
port to the IF C that contained rec— V.
ommendations for changes to the .
New Member Education system. '
The SAC’s major initial rec—-

ommendation was shortening

New Member Education from
its cur‘rent"eight weeks to six
weeks, a motion rejectedpby

the IFC and fraternity presi
dents. ‘

Instead, the IFC formed a
New Member Education Task

    
 
      
        
 
     
 
        
      
 
    
      

Force, with the goal of formulating new
ideas and potential initiatives for improving pledgeship.
Eliminating Tuesdays during New Member Education is
a recommendation of the Task Force. ,
Danny Murray ’l3, IFC President, released a statement on

behalf of the IFC.

The statement reads: “This decision follows the ongoing
suggestions of the Student Affairs Committee to address the
numerous inefﬁciencies inherent in the current system - pri-
Inarily, students’ quality of life. The IFC decided this mea-
sure, along with several other initiatives spearheaded by the
NME Task Force, will help address the changing dynamics of
the W &L student body and overall rigors of the new member
Greek experience for ﬁrst-year men.”

This change to New Member Education follows previous
changes to daily hours (now 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.) and the
minimum GPA for New Members (now 2.3).

— Current and potential fraternity men can expect more chang-

es in the future.

 

 

DEC 0 6 zoié

  

 

  

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

I16

 

Wakin

Happiness: how do we get there?

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Charles Taylor, emeritus professor of
philosophy at McGill University, talked
about “Relating Morals to Ethics” in the
Commons last Thursday.

“What makes a life really worth-
while?” asked Taylor, the third speaker
in the “Questioning the Good Life” in-
terdisciplinary seminar series.

Unlike morals and ethics, Taylor
pointed out that happiness is often con-
ceived today as something that just hap-
pens to you.

But before considering the modern
interpretations of happiness, Taylor
urged that we “step back, look into his-
tory and see how we got here.”

Aristotle thought that if someone
does all the right things, then they de-
serve the good life.

“What is the wisdom of the ancients
that’s worth carrying forward?” Taylor
asked the audience.

The central concept of Plato and Ar-
istotle pushes for a certain kind of ful-
ﬁllment or completion. The paradigm of
this case, Taylor said, is “living things,
such as the potential of an acorn to be-
come an oak.” Similarly, there exists a
vast chasm between our potential and
realization thereof.

In the end, an “internal direction of
growth” makes the acorn an oak tree,
said Taylor.

The relationship between potential
and the realization thereof can be seen in
love and death.

Love, Taylor said, has a component
of what happens and turns out. Perhaps
a couple “met in Paris,” Taylor said.
This is a “happening accident from the
outside; the kind of happening of an
organic process.” It comes from the in-
temal dynamic of this couple’s relation-
ship, said Taylor.

After a happenstance meeting, a
couples love relationship has an inor-
ganic growth. “It’s like the growth of a
garden,” Taylor said. “Unless we fail to
water the garden or pull the plants out,
you see the person more ful_ly and realis-
tically for who they actually are.”

As to death, Taylor said, to die well is
to have some sense of completing one’s

life. Death creates a sense offulﬁllment .

because before death, one is inclined to
repair a relationship with children or of-
fer insight into what is truly important
in life.

To do so, Taylor said, there “has to
be some kind of uptake by the person
whom you’re leaving behind.”

Left unanswered today is the ques-
tion of how you can do all the right
things while still being happy yourself.

This conflict has resulted in a clash
between egoism and altruism, which
Taylor called the “axes of modern think-
ing.”

These axes can be restated as desires,
the fulﬁllment of which constitutes hap-
piness and, on the other hand, the right
thing to do. Morality and happiness are
“rivals,” Taylor said.

For example, ifa father gambles and
his children starve, the father is happy
but immoral.

Similarly, sometimes we see “people
as severely addicted to something as not
real candidates for happiness,” Taylor
said.

In spite of the short-sightedness
which prompts happy but immoral de-
cisions, there remains, Taylor said, “a
sense of the larger order in the light of
which one works out one’s idea of the
good life. Good life choices are taken‘ in
the context of the larger picture.”

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

. 

Ging in 

 

g magic for mature mul

In the Northen Auditorium last
Wednesday, Lev Grossman read an ex-
cerpt from his fantasy novel The Magi-
cian is Land, the yet-to-be—published and
ﬁnal installment in a trilogy that began
with The Magicians, followed by The
Magician King.

The New York Times bestselling au-
thor also ﬁelded questions from the au-
dience on other writers in the fantasy
genre, a television adaptation of his
books, and the writing process in gen-
eral.

Currently, Grossman has complet-
ed one-third of The Magicians Land.
When writing, Grossman said, he cre-
ates his fantasy world by ﬁrst basing it
in reality. This basis does not exclude
profanity. Due in part to his penchant
for the profane, Grossman, according to
The New York Times, writes “Harry Pot-
ter for adults.”

“I was very conscious that the ﬁrst
time I wrote... I could hear ten thousand
middle school library book sales evapo-
rate,” said Grossman. “But I stood by
my integrity.”

Grossman confessed his struggles
with how he ought to end the series. “Is
this book the end of the world? I’ve

been looking at the way people end a se-
ries,” Grossman said. “You play a funny
game. You’re ending the story. Burn
the place down; everything that’s been
hanging there I can ﬁnally lay off.”

To do so, the novelist has taken in-
spiration from The Last Battle of C.S.
Lewis’ The Chronicles of Narnia. “A
lot of people don’t like The Last Battle;
l’ve been looking a lot at what Lewis
did there. I wondered if he succeeded in
theilogic of what he did there by having
Aslan’s world fall apart,” he said.

On the other hand, Grossman learned
his writing from Philip Pullman, the au-
thor of The Golden Compass and argu-
ably Lewis’ harshest critic, which seems
to refute the Christian overtones in
Lewis’ works. “I actually met him and I
had this conversation that was incredibly
liberating,” Grossman said. “He was so
angry at Lewis, even at breakfast early
in the morning, that he turned purple at
8 am.”

Despite the mentorship of Lewis
books and Pullman himself, Grossman
admits to sometimes writing poorly. “I
want to insist for everybody who’s inter-
ested in being a writer that everybody’s
ﬁrst drafts are crap.”

9

But there is a method to his madness.

First, he “start[s] with action, then
dialogue to allow [characters] to talk to
each other.” His ﬁrst drafts tend to be
skeletal rather than “morbidly obese.”
In these drafts, he is primarily concerned
with plot and action, saying, “I like the
narratives to be very well laid out, orga-
nized, and nicely paced.”

To lengthen a draft, Grossman at-
tempts to fully immerse the reader with-
in a fantastical world. “It’s very easy to
write about sight and sound, but I tend
to focus on the other senses,” he said.
“Then I make everybody react to what’s
going on. Then they react to their reac-
tions. Then I make up what people say.”

Sometimes, though, his draftsjust are
not long enough. Grossman said, “When
you’re making a living by writing, you
become obsessed with word counts... I
try to hit 145,000, but after the ﬁrst draft
I come in at around 100,000.” Eventu-
ally, he added, “The thing starts grow-
ing and it sort of magically becomes the
proper length.”

Grossman’s fantasy ﬁction may soon
be adapted for television by Showtime,
Syfy, or AMC. Look out for The Magi-
cian s Land, coming soon.

“ape for fi

nal exams

 

  

I

  
 

W h’
as mglon and Lee offers

  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  

>[<1r you ‘plan on .
being - f ' I
to keep Physica1— *Frlday (D60 14): Only

1}’ mentally and bars or fru granola 1 Write “exai ' I ’> L’ I
’ 2 e ' . It 11-, y b c asses off d  I  "I magrams, Wh h 2
        .
, ' yc mg as we” a . . . Ilexc ange for . _
. _   Yoga , g _ S . pIZZa_‘. ‘- ‘V :‘ I V I <
‘ PM r_ 2 I , 2.  
L N.-.' , r . V ~ 4 U U »
V‘ moggs O“1:i1<1:e E: Hpealtl? Pro- cisé!  _ EKETT 3‘ Take breaitky ‘ d  . I _
tips frorn Student r0U10t1ng A _ -g  
‘ Health101 G - . _ ‘
about meal planning to avoid roup ﬁtness Classes will *ActlVe Mlnds W111 PIO-

unhealthy convenience foods be free during exam Week’ Vide ‘snacks and hot‘ *LIFE will be giving Out 5 A

 When studying ' with Sﬁght modiﬁcati °h0COlate for the tu Stress balls in the=Co
7 ° schedule. , ‘ f>I1s to the body Wednesda S dent mon Atrium starti m-
 , f _ _Y, Dec. 5, d .’«,D 11g Mon-
 >l<C_Thop Vegetables, boil * S tu _ I .111(‘)0:I: 9 10 p.m. m the book , ay ecI.J3.A
I » rice, bake Chicken and (S1 1-day and Sunday *0 , 4 ' _ * 0f>al massage ther.
§§e§,a’° “her healthy meals Celled 60' 8‘9)"C1aSSeS Can‘ soilffing C15” 18 S"°“‘ head antiprlitcskwm be giving .
6 Weekend so th t i . 8 a_ ackcampus massages in
£>:S:]ea(iY L0 be eaten dl.é11r1'I1];‘:/E161 >l<€V’Ie0é1da};i - through :1lIlI<1e Sunday, Dec. 9 at 10:00 glosllunnllggi 5: frggn 6-9 p‘,m_ .
Wee - “es ay (Dec ‘ ' H " “ ca , 10-5 and
. 12 : ' 10‘ ' 6-9
>]<Pack healthy food fro ) Normal Schedule >[<F1rst-Year ' Leadership . and ?(I)l_6Monday (Dec, 10)’
.D'HaH for your do m *ThurSday (Dec. 13)‘ s ‘ Councll Wm be SP°1'1- 11) Y on "."‘Sd‘?*Y (Dec-
mom If-you d . rm Only classes offered - ormg a study break in the . . ou Can sign up in Com-

lunch-

ar . . .
‘ 6 Commons Lrvmg Room on '
01138, as Well as 4

Sunday, Dec. 9 from 9-12
D.m. F1'rst—years are invited to

mons 249. For more info

Contact Kels G - . .—
kgoo dWin@ V513,; 'edt':1odw1n at. .

By Andrea owe" .
S“‘F.F- WRITER

_ .  7 "Ti-‘I



 

 

 

 

 

M 0 N DAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

 

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

Pure eats, pure bea ?

By Graham Colton
STAFF WRITER

Pure Eats might soon be as musical as
it is mouthwatering.

The popular local eatery is in nego-
tiations with a landlord to agree upon a
lease and other legal obstacles that would
convert the restaurant’s basement into a
music venue.

Owner John Blackburn hopes to plug
in the amp and get the party started.

“I want to create a performance space
down there for plays, storytelling and
concerts,” Blackburn said. “I’ve talked
to so many people in Lexington who are
musicians, DJs, performers of various
kinds, and they really feel the need for a
place in Lexington for performance.”

Blackburn seeks to bring together
“different constituencies” in the heart of
Lexington. “The jet-set DJ crowd, old
time musicians, rock guys, teenagers,
poetry, storytellers and really any other
performing artists,” he said.

Blackburn said he is not in it for the
money.

He said, “I would be really surprised
if I make any money off of it and I prob-
ably won’t.”

Blackburn said he would like the per-
formance space to exist as a community
resource, which musicians, bands and
performers would reserve for art open-
ings, performances and practices.

If all goes well, the venue would
be paid for by $100 passes that would
grant patrons access to a year’s worth of
events, Blackburn said.

“If we get enough of those people,
then we should be able to ﬁnance the ba-
sic outﬁt of the space.”

The space should not cost too much to
ﬁnance. “It’s not going to be fancy or de-
luxe,”_Blackburn said.‘ It will consist of
“four concrete pillars, a concrete ceiling,
and old metal windows,” he said.

Washington and Lee students might
be able to help create the space. “I’d love
for art students or area artists to adopt a
section of the wall for a period of time

to do murals and participate in creative
expression,” said Blackburn.

In addition, there might be students in
physics and engineering who could work
with the acoustics of the concrete base-

ment.

The timeline for completion is fast ap-
proaching.

“I would love to get outﬁtted this
winter and early spring so we could start
having shows in early April,” said Black-
burn. “That’s based on my hopes rather
than a concrete schedule.”

Blackburn made a ﬁnal gesture to
W&L students.

“We could start a fundraising cam-
paign and I would love for W&L sup-
porters of good music...either to donate
toward it or to shore up some help and
volunteer.”

Blackburn encourages students to
email him with their thoughts at info@
pure-eats.com.

V 5’;
-7 *‘~~
bi \

  

  , \~‘
0” - 51:1 0'19 "6

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Unrest in Mexico under new President

The new president of Mexico, Enrique Pena Nieto, is dealing with public un-
rest before his term even starts. Just before his inauguration on Saturday, protest-
ers clashed with police outside of congress. Protesters threw Molotov cocktails
while police forces fought back with tear gas. At least 25 people were injured.

Communications blackouts spark
controversy in Syria

Communications blackouts occurred across Syria earlier this week in the
wake of some of the worst ﬁghting since July. Many people suggested that the
government was behind the blackouts. Internet access was restored to most of
the country on Saturday.

Bus accident devastates in Bolivia

A passenger bus overturned on a major highway in Bolivia early Saturday.
Eight people were pronounced dead and at least 36 others were injured. The
injured were taken to a local hospital for treatment. Authorities are waiting for
more information on the state of other victims.

New settlements approved in Jerusalem

The Israeli government approved the construction of 3,000 new settlements
in Jerusalem and the West Bank on Friday. The Prime Minister also approved
the establishment of 1,000 homes in the area connecting Jerusalem and Ma’aleh
Adumim. The approval of the construction follow a UN vote to improve Pales-
tine’s diplomatic status.

Tokyo tunnel caves in

A tunnel‘ near Tokyo caved in on Saturday morning. The tunnel is one of the
largest tunnels on a major highway in Japan. The accident trapped at least three
cars and authorities suspect that ﬁve or more people were trapped inside. Three
others who were able to get out are injured. Smoke surrounding the area was too
thick for rescue teams to get closed immediately.

Somali refugee camp shut down

Somali reﬁigees seeking asylum set up a tent camp in Amsterdam two months
ago. On Thursday, the mayor of the capital city ordered that the camp be shut
down. Police entered the area after breaking through a group of activists. About
95 asylum-seekers were arrested.

Taliban behind explosions at US. base

Explosions were heard late Saturday night at the United States military base
near Jalalabad in Afghanistan. The Taliban admitted to being behind the attack.
However, their entrance onto the base has not been conﬁrmed. Gunshots contin-
ued to be heard after the explosions ended. Reports of casualties have not been
released.

cA$H FOR THE HoLioAY$

~ Bring your UG and LAW
  books to buybackj,

  Last year, the Universitysput over $250,000 in the hands of 
0 students at our buybac . Plus, with every booklyou sold you  

helped the University offer more used books to your l"e

Dec.

of the new price!

COMMONS ATRIUM

Dec. 6- 7
8- 9
10- 14
15

1 Dec.
  Dec.

   
   

 

for up to 50% 5 

  
   

9AM—6PM
10AM-4PM
9AM-6PM
10AM-4PM

ow students!

 

 

 

 

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M O N DAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

opinions

 

Walkin

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF W R ITE R

As many of you know, Dec. 21 ofthis
year is considered by many to be the day
of the Apocalypse/Arrnageddon/End of
the World, pick your poison. This belief
is based on a loose understanding of the
ancient Mesoamerican calendar~speciﬁ-
cally the Mayan calendarwthat places
the date at the end of a 5,125-year-long
cycle and the start of a new one.

i There are many theories as to what
this “new cycle” means. Theories range
from a “positive physical or spiritual
transformation” to alien contact to an
Earth—ending event, despite the fact that
all apocalypse theories have been de-
bunked by researchers from almost ev-
ery scientiﬁc discipline. Just in case, I ’m
here to help you prepare for the poten-
tial doom awaiting us at the end of the
month. So, gather up as much food, wa-
ter, gas, guns, ammo, and spiky shoulder
pads as you can now, because the world
of Mad Max is brutal and unforgiving.

President Obama Royally Screws Up
There’s really nothing you can do
about that now, just be prepared.

   
    
  
   
  
  
 
  

The “6-Mile-Wide Astero'
This one is by  "
able. Even if the I

The Nukes G0 Off

Assumptions: Enough nukes are
detonated to send the world into nuclear
winter without total global extermina-
tion, you’ll be able to live in the waste-
land left behind, and you have time to
make a run to somewhere safe before the
bombs drop.

I. Figure out what you need to sur-
vive all that radiation cancer and muta-
tion free. No need to grow a third arm

and lose everything’you’ve ever known
in the same day! . ,_ .  I ., , I " L
2. GCL 35:3,,  , T
targets of arn  
large cities, ma“ 
nuclear niisbife
centers of- I
3. Get as
in a structure a I V
sible. Forget that ‘50’s‘ 5 . I.
crap, which was a complete lie. If ’ ..
can see the explosion, you’re pro
done. I K _
Ok, now that you’ve survived as _, ;
clear holocaust, you’d probably thi F
hard part is over...and you’d be 
This part of the soul—crushingly lo

existence you will call “life” is rnucil-ii

easier if you’ve played agiy of the Fallout»: ‘t at‘ ' .
:,+»j_ ,-- ‘~= . .

      
   

games. ’f.*f‘  <35‘
The America fhats
harsh, unforgiving wasteland ﬁlled with
mutated animals, radioactive water, and
ruthless bandits eager to kill you and

.5

take your precious supplies. Given that, A

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

have impenetrable force ﬁelds protecting

them from all »forms of modern weap-

‘uh

 out a nice
' I new alien

    
 
  
   
   
   
  

, ‘I o siimes that the apoca-

Fe will take the form of a nearly 100%
al virus for which there is no hope
v _ ‘Vaccine or cure. In this case, you’ll
V.-3 get as far away from super popu-
, ' areas and just try and wait it out.
ere isn’t much you can do except buy
’~.,j AZMAT suit, a box of Kleenexes,
. ‘-71 boards for your windows. Beyond

could t  gamble on the ru-
 g, 7* rsist about the vi-
‘ O

‘ _ rvive above certain
altitudes, above/below certain tempera-
tures, or in certain parts of the country.
These will all likely be cruel lies created
by desperate people unwilling to accept

    

    
    

' ’'‘‘p;pods-  Approach:

9. Attracted to: minorities exhibiting
offensivelystereotypical behavior, peo-
ple without love interests, those stingy
with bullets, selﬁsh/pragmatic surviv-
alists, people with useful skills, people
who breathe a sigh of relief, and people
too selﬂess for their own good.

10. Repulsed by women with: a lik-
able demeanor, concern for her_ fellow
human beings, blonde hair, a love inter-
est spurned by a lack of options, an un-
willingness to “go on without you,” and/
or large breasts.

ll. Repulsed by men with: strong
chins, six-pack abs, a loner attitude, a
“reluctant leader” mentality, perfect hair,
a love interest spurned by a lack of op-
tions, and/or an interesting backstory.

12. Fast.

13. Near instant conversion rate.

14. Increased strength, athleticism.

15. Heightened senses, minus pain.

16. Can breakdown doors, climb bar-
ricades, and outrun some vehicles.

 

'91.,

H '  l raider.

lmn unstoppable alien aittny comes

we-*“few rednecks, you’ll have a.

be sure to link up with said bandits as
..

quickly as possible. If post-nucl 
ies have shown me anything, it’s

i

_ 1 to your acceptance as an al

Alien Invasion!
wn hoping to do more than abdu

available to you:

1. The “Tom Cruise” Appro;
cally just run around screamirl
kids hoping Earth’s germs and
Freeman kill the aliens.

2. The “Jeff Goldblum” Ap
Learn to program a virus, ﬁnd a bl
lot (preferably Will Smith), grab a '
ship, and hope that the alien mothe 1
uses the same operating system as
virus.

3. The “Falling Skies” Appro

Gather up as many people and guns’, 4 a
you can and kick them off the plM% 
Also, be sure to pray the aliens don '

     
    
  
  

at
ing a lone hero or a morally soil1nd' ‘
lage is not the way to go; better to ~. »
‘forms-a roving band of raiders e ,_-, .
life to remember those spikey I '

few optio

the reality they’ve been thr into.

I .

        

horror music is available.

       
    

  
   

  
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
 

9

‘ y0u7

 ‘ without checking them an riéﬁinfgcting

it

.,le eople "I71"

g in a winter zombieland

the whole place, plus everyone will be
thinking the same thing

DON’T GO TO THE CDC

Pick a safe house with a maximum
of two ground entrances, minimum win-
dows and is away from a lot of activity

Should I try to ﬁnd a safe zone, refu-
gee camp, or other oﬂicial area of pro-
tection?

No! There is no way to tell if such a
place is real, and whoever told you about
it could be trying to get your precious
hiding place!

Assuming you’ve already found a
safe house/room, best to stay put, let the
, government come to you

TRUST NO ONE

How do I kill/defend against a zom-
bie?
Fire is always ﬁm
If ﬁre is unavailable, use a blunt ob
ject like a bator crowligr
Keep gunﬁrdito 31 mini " ‘ you’ve
only got so Ipany b_ and guns
Q ac , V ies

  
    
  

  

   
  
  
 
  
 
 

about all you can do to
pending doom waiting for
inal note, be sure to grab

 
   
    

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

undergraduate school year.
member of The Media Board,

advertising do not necessarily

SUBSCRIPTION

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the

mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and

RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
IANEY FUGATE
LEAH GOSE
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
ANDREA OWEN
MARIEL PEARL
BAILEY RUSSELL
JOSH WHITE

YATES WILBURN

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

THE RING-TUM PHI is a
which can be reached at

reflect the opinion of THE

RATE $45

re.‘ ‘=
1.. .5.

Eating together, coming together

By.lP Beall
OPINIONS EDITOR

With a school as closely knit as ours, we
can always be evaluating, exploring, and
expanding the ways and means the people
of Washington and Lee connect, whether
it’s here at Evans for upperclassmen, pro-
fessors and the town, or even in other parts
of the country for W&L’s extended corn-
munity.

We have been doing many things pretty
well. D-Hall’s recent makeover to expand

' selections for students was both well timed

and well done (although the glass shields
on the food cart are a consistent obstacle
for anyoneabove 6 feet tall). The expan-
sion of Co-op hours to reach 2 a.m. is a
fantastic slice of Sausage Sunrise heaven,
and Hillel serving on Sundays is just one
more reason why Hillel is awesome.

However, one major drawback about the
extension of Co-op hours was that it is now
closed all day Saturday and Sunday mom-
ings, which is pretty difﬁcult to maneuver
for an upperclassman with partial meal
plans and ﬂex dollars.

This is why some major congratulations
are in order for our Executive Committee
(EC) for coming up with the best idea since
putting sliced bread in a toaster, and that is
their Executive Committee upperclassmen
brunch, which has been held several Sun-
days over the last term. Not only is this a
great option for Generals without their 60
swipes per week to eat a great meal for 5
bucks, but it’s also an opportunity to bring
together the fragmented upperclassman
community.

This is a great solution to the weekend
“food desert” for upperclassmen. When
you have the Evans Dining Services cook-
ing, and are almost certain to see a group of
people you know, the positives are pretty
substantial. In particular, it is a great spot
to see friends of both genders who you may
not normally have a chance to hang out
with. This is something you do not always
have with other venues. Opportunities that
bring a large portion of the different pieces
of the W&L community together are lim-
ited and valuable.

Another beneﬁt is that we get to put Ev-
ans Hall to good use. The former ﬁrst-year
dining hall before the Commons came in
is probably one of the most awesome ven-
ues on campus, and sadly one of the lesser
used. It is a great venue for bringing people
together, whether that is students or other-

 

wise. For instance, some other small liberal
arts schools have a special venue for dinner
lectures, for students, faculty, alumni and
community members to get a little dressed
up to hear distinguished lecturers and
alumni speak on a variety of topics. Great
food, lively Q and A, and the opportunity
to eat with the likes of Mark Zuckerberg
and Condoleezza Rice has become a uni-
versity touchstone for those schools that
unites the various sections of campus.

We already have a large amount of lec-
turers coming to W&L, whether it’s be-
cause of our fantastic Contact Committee
or the various lecture endowments of de-
partments. Heck, being close to Washing-

'ton, D.C., we have unparalleled access

to lecturers. Expanding to a single venue
like Evans can only help to cement such a
W&L institution, and further academic and
networking opportunities.

Along another line with Evans, how
many opportunities and venues are there
for professors to get together and have dis-
cussions as a community‘? I have spoken
with several professors about the grow-
ing sentiment of having a Faculty Club,
whether to go sit someplace to read a book,
have a discussion about research, or recon-
nect with a friend in another department
to talk shop over coffee. Professors don’t
really have anything of that kind to bring
them together, and something tells me that
fraternity parties (as awesome as they are)
are not going to be the way to start. Even
alumni have the Hotchkiss House! Why
not put the Fairfax Lounge (the one place
everyone knows, but does not know what
it’s for), or Evans to good use there? Some-
thing of this sort is only one more amenity
and selling point to continue to bring the
best and brightest faculty to one of Ameri-

ca’s best and brightest schools.

And what about a club for the extended
W&L network? This Thanksgiving, I had
the experience of staying with my cousins
at an Ivy League club up in New York. The
ﬁrst thing that ran through my mind was
that if there was one university that ought
to have a club, it’s Washington and Lee.

There are probably those who wonder if
such an idea is past its prime, but the new-
est of those clubs up in New York is the
Cornell Club, which was only founded in
the l970’s. With the second highest Greek
participation rate in the country, in addi-
tion to a large, active, loyal base of the top-
ranked alumni in the country, the people of
Washington and Lee are among the most
clubbable people on the face of the planet.
If they found life on Mars, I would be will-
ing to amend the statement and, say, solar
system. To have a venue of that sort, say in
Washington, D.C., where Generals could
stay the night, eat meals, or meet at the bar,
library or squash courts would be invalu-
able.

In particular, D.C. would be a great loca-
tion for all those students here whose trav-
els to and from W&L sometimes exceed
one day’s time. Having a home base to stay
at would be fantastic. And if the club had
reciprocal agreements, these opportunities
could be open across the country, whether
someone is in a city for an interview, or
simply looking for a meeting place for
school friends.

Civility and hospitality are at the core of
the W&L cultural tradition, and thereare
many ways that we can allow this tradition
to evolve. One of these ways is to expand
the discussion, just like the EC has done.
Are you going to join the conversation?

  

  

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012 V _ 5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

pinions

I . Black-eye Friday 93:1” Mittens

_ _ STAFF WRITER
By Allie Weiss , , _ ,
DESIGN EDITOR  Its been almost a month since the Presidential

Election. I expect that many of the Romney support-
ers on campus are still clinging to their bumper stick-
ers and yard signs. I understand - losing is hard and
you certainly can’t win them all (and you really didn’t
win this one). 4.3 million votes and 6 big swing states
short of the Presidency, Mitt almost had it in the bag
(and by that I mean he took a shot from the 3-point-
line and it was an air ball).

While I could take the politically correct stand-
point and blame his loss on fractions in the GOP and
the alienation of minorities and the lower-class, the
true culprit is America. See, it isn’t I or the liberal
media elite (because we all saw the atrocity that was
FOX News on that “terrible” Tuesday night when
polls closed). It’s not even you, the dedicated conser-
vative who wanted so badly to “believe in America”
(albeit, what were you believing in before‘?). America
is the “Plastics” clique from the movie “Mean Girls”
and poor Mr. Mitt was not invited to wear pink on
Wednesdays (or to be the President).

Since the dawn of time (and in this case that would
be the beginning of Twitter), America has taken to de-
stroying any and everything via the “Intemets” (and
then you remember President Bush’s comment). What
is our obsession with nit-picking people’s comments
and quotes via 140 character battles online? I honestly
have no idea, but my guess is that people would rather
have a “Best Bushisms” day calendar than one with
Norman Rockwell paintings. We enjoy a good laugh

_ at the expense of other people’s mistakes. And unfor-
tunately, in the eyes of many Americans, Romney has
made a potent number of errors.

Yes, I understand! Romney was supposed to save
America! But sadly, McKayla and the 65 million peo-
ple who voted for Barack Obama were not impressed.
I wonder though how you couldn’t be impressed by
a man who has binders full of women. Does that not
show a tactful and organized character on Romney’s
part? What about Big Bird? I mean we all know some
money-minded children’s network on cable would
have picked up the government budget-draining
show. The 47% percent - they’ve got their bootstrapsl
What are they waiting for?

_ . __ I am quite aware that the majority of Mitt Rom-
?‘ " ' " " j ‘ L I . V V’ "S. ‘ ney’s comments were taken out of context, but this is

“ ’ ’ ' if ' ‘ America and we never follow rules (The Revolution-
ary War, anyone?). It isn’t fair that Romney got the
short stick and Obama had only one (really) bad de-
bate! America, what were you doing subconsciously
attacking Mitt Romney? Shame on us for not giving
Mitt a chance. Obama said we didn’t build our busi-
nesses but we sure built the failure that was Romney’s
bid for the White House. So my dear conservative
friends, I understand your pain. I almost sympathize.
You were smacked down by your country, but that’s
how democracy works. As a consolation prize I will
be offering hugs until your chance again at the Big

 

Two thousand years ago, December 25th was a 2012 was possibly the worst Black Friday that At another WalMart in Tallahassee, Fl., a not-so-
date of little consequence to most people. It was a America has experienced in recent years. In many friendly dispute over a parking space led to gun-
day just like any other, and came and went with- places, it was a scene right out of ﬁlm noir, char- shot wounds being inflicted upon two customers.
out event. These days, December 25th is for many acterized by suspicion, guns, and murder. In San Fortunately for the customers, the injuries are not
people a day on which to celebrate family, friend- Antonio, Texas, a man tried to cut in line at a Sears life-threatening. Unfortunately, they lost the park-
ship, and faith. In other words, it is a looming store. When confronted by another customer, the ing spot.
deadline to have gifts wrapped, cards signed, and man punched his accuser in the face, only to ﬁnd To top the evening off, a man in Springﬁeld, Ma.,
packages shipped. And the culmination of all this himself looking down the barrel of a gun a mo- was babysitting his girlfriend’s tod_dler when he

. stress: a marathon shopping day that comes with ment later. Because the customer had a permit, he had a sudden desire to purchase a flat-screen TV
' its own warning label. was not arrested. The line-cutter was last seen as at the local Kmart. I-Ie buckled the child in, drove

.‘

For years, Black‘ Friday has been dedicated to he was ﬂeeing the scene. to the store, and then reached a dilemma: would

. outrageous deals and aggressive marketing. The Meanwhile, at a WalMart in Lithonia, Ga.. a man it be smart to take the boy inside? Apparently, he

day’s history dates back to the late 19th century, decided to steal two DVD players. While he was decided against it, Somewhere between locking

when the major Thanksgiving Day parades would casually strolling from the store, loot in hand, em- the child in the car and purchasing the television,

conclude with an appearance by Santa Claus, sig- ployees attempted to prevent him from leaving the the man lost track of where he had parked. With a

nifying that Christmas mania officially begins the premises. A ﬁght broke out between the shoplifter shrug, he called a buddy to pick him up, and drove

moment Thanksgiving ends. Sure enough, the next and the employees, resulting in the man being put home with the ﬁat-screen. The two-year-old was

morning, stores would open their doors to reveal into a pretty serious chokehold. After the ambu- still sleeping hours later when the police ﬁnally
bargains unparalleled during the rest of the year. lance had dropped him off at the hospital, doctors broke the car window to rescue him.

And thus the mania would begin. pronounced him dead. House in 2016.
s .. ~ 1’ ’
. “" : it 1 "ii 5 t‘ ‘ B " I: v “is ,4‘ I J 3 P
. .3, Q
4' -an ‘-

WASHINGTON and LEE
v UNIVERSITY STORE

..   ANNUAL THANK YOU     

: HOLIDAY SALE   v

 Friday Saturday Sunday Monday - Friday "'
3 Dec. 7th Dec. 8th Dec. 9th .Dec. 10th - 14th '9'.
3AM- 7PM 10 AM- 5PM 10 AM— 5PM SAM -7PM 

     10% OFF     

‘i

‘ -Iain‘
 TIRE STORE   
5“ (t.'Ji.‘{:l':'.l{.f:‘,'£-' rc.\'rbaak5, rrt;:g:t.:n"trc::, 
. rm-rlfcfrus-, (Tt>a:*o:.- .M.-'12; :ma' .-»‘e!¢-cred ftermr) 
ﬂ‘

» 50% OFF   
 SPECIALLY SELECTED ITEMS   

"0 Conytwlimenragv gift wmpping for all in store purchases!’ Sale applies to purchases in the store. 

F ' ""_ I l I 6' 1? , as ,3 '” * 1; 1 s 3  1 , . I ‘  ‘

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3,2012

arts&life

ByJosh White
STAFF wnm-zn

What are you doing this weekend? If
the answer is “I don’t know” or “just
going to another party,” you should con-
sider checking out the Outing Club as an
alternative.

 

The Outing Club at Washington and
Lee offers students a variety of outdoor
activities and classes, acting as a gate-
way for people with similar interests to
meet each other and get involved.

“Sometimes I think college students
just need a little nudge,” said Outing
Club Director Mr. James Dick. For
many people on campus it may seem like
all that’s happening on the weekends is
partying, but that’s not the case. Stu-
dents are doing activities in the outdoors
all the time, whether it be rock-climbing,
ﬁshing, mountain biking, or just going
for a leisurely hike. As the weather gets
colder, more winter activities will be
possible too, such as skiing.

“People come to college to explore
life;. .the outdoors should be included in
that experience,” said Dick. Since we are
all going to be old some day, we should
take advantage of our youth now, and go

places and do things that we might not be

able to do in the future.
“Everything is okay in moderation,”
said Dick, “but if you’re only drinking

every weekend, or only rock climbing

every weekend, that’s bad.” The Outing
Club philosophy promotes a well-round-

a ’ ’

ed college experience in accordance with
the liberal arts nature of the school.

With excursions organized almost ev-
ery weekend so far in the fall semester,
the Outing Club’s activity is only recent-
ly reaching a level of relative tranquility
as we approach ﬁnals week.

But it’s never too late to start planning
ahead! In the upcoming winter term, ski
and snowboard trips to the Homestead
Ski Area and others nearby will be or-
ganized through the Outing Club with
outstanding deals.

Looking further ahead, sign-ups for
a 14-day trip to Tanzania this summer
have just opened this past Wednesday,
with ﬁfteen spots available. Dick de-
scribed the opportunity as “the trip of
a lifetime.” There is also an upcoming
sea kayak trip to the Everglades during
Spring Break that is “perfect for an inex-
perienced enthusiast.”

Weeklong break trips can get costly,
but there are always opportunities for
scholarships. One anonymous alum
who donates funds every year to spon-
sor one break trip has only three criteria:
any recipient must “positively contribute
to the group, share the experience, and
[not] suck!”

If you’re looking for a less time-con-
suming way to get involved, there are
shorter weekend and even day trips or-
ganized by students within the Outing
Club. Joining is as easy as coming to
one of the biweekly Wednesday meet-
ings at 7 p.m., or simply stopping by
Dick’s office in Commons 115 to ask
what’s going on.

Membership to the Outing Club is $40
for all four years. This fee includes un-
limited use of gear from the Outing Club
barn - from kayaks to tents to scuba div-
ing gear - discounts on organized trips,
and the latest updates on all the latest
happenings in the club.

 

t I oig Cubi Path offers

By Josh White
STA F F w R IT E R

Looking for an escape from the stress-
es and chaos of school and life? Bodhi
Path is an international organization of
Buddhist centers which provide a non-
sectarian approach to Buddhism. The
Meditation Center is open to all visitors,
with the philosophy that “leaming to
meditate is of beneﬁt to everyone.” It
offers a sanctuary for relaxation, peace
and quiet, and self-reflection.

My interest was sparked by a friend
who told me that his political philoso-
phy class had visited the center. He said
it was a great place to relax, and having
some free time over break, I resolved
to check it out for myself. I decided to
make my trip a two-wheeled endeavor.
I departed on Thanksgiving morning at
8:00 a.m. with vague directions, a bike

 
 

with meagerly inﬂated tires, some warm
clothes, and a liter of water. My inten-
tion was to meditate a bit before I ate
myself into a coma later that day.

I found out the hard way that (in what
was an astonishing revelation to me) an
ll-mile bike ride with flat tires is no

t : joke. I considered turning around mul-

tiple times on the trip, but came to think
of it as a sort of metaphorical mountain,
ifyou will, that I had to climb in order to
reach the temple. Don’t get me wrong; I
think the commute is well worth the ef-
fort if you’re seeking a spiritual journey
of sorts.

The beautiful Lee-Jackson Highway
will take you about eight miles south
through scenic country landscapes ﬁlled
with unsettlingly observant cows and
the occasional prancing doe. You then
take a right onto Broad Creek Church
Road for about a mile, and another right
onto Galloping Path. Follow the signs
for another mile and you will ﬁnd your-
selfin a peculiar cluster of cottages. Pay
close attention to the signs, because they
will direct you to the actual Meditation
Center (which just looks like another
cottage).

The center is always open, and is usu-
ally occupied by the Resident Teacher
Tsony, who was nowhere to be found

 

 

that morning (I assume he was celebrat-
ing the holiday). The facility is warm
and inviting, with pamphlets available
to pique your interest. Also available is
an overwhelming assortment of tea and
snacks, complimentary, of course. of
which I took full advantage.

After you satisfy the appetite ybu’ve
conjured up from your journey, pick a
cushion from the copious assortments
and ﬁnd some inner peace. The atmo-
sphere really is conducive to relaxation
and was a refreshing chance for me to
calm my mind and connect with myself.

Once you’re ﬁnished at the center,
make sure you ﬁnd the outdoor monu-
ment (it’s right up the hill), and check it
out. There’s a large statue with a Bud-
dha encased in glass, and a nicely mani-
cured garden area surrounding it. The
view from which the monument stands
serves as a nice accent to the tranquility
of it all.

If you have some extra time and any
appetite left after you’ve ravaged the
snack table at the Meditation Center,
stop by Layne’s Country Hams off Lee
Highway and grab something to eat or
drink. They have all kinds of cool nov-
elty foods, plus the guy at the counter is
really nice - always a beneﬁt. I

4

 

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHl -'

 

arts&|ife

Will “The Hobbit”

By Janey Fugate
s TA F F w R IT E R

The Lord of the Rings ﬁlm trilogy is
considered to be one of the greatest cin-
ematic works in the history of live action
ﬁlms, a reﬂection of the trilogy’s status
among fantasy books. However, whether
or not the upcoming Hobbit ﬁlm will rise
to the standard set by its predecessors
remains to be seen. For most fans and
critics, the movie’s potential to be one of

‘ the classics depends on the quality ofthe

character development and how well or
not it clings to the spirit of J.R.R. Tolk-
ien’s vision.

For those of you who are unfamiliar
with the story, the events of The Hob-
bit take place about 50 years before The
Lord of the Rings. The story begins when
Bilbo Baggins, a hobbit, is visited by the
wizard Gandalf and a company of 13
dwarves led by Thorin Oakenshield. The
unlikely company sets out to reclaim
the legendary Arkenstone, the dwarves’
most valuable treasure stolen by the red
dragon Smaug. They encounter goblins,
trolls, giant eagles and shape shifters

v on their way to the Lonely Mountain,

Smaug’s lair.

l was one of the many fans who
breathed a sigh of relief when Guillermo
del Toro stepped down as director in
2009, turning thejob back over to Peter
Jackson. Del Toro directed Hellboy and
Pan 3' Labyrinth, so who knows what
kind of shenanigans the dwarves and
Bilbo would have gotten into. At the
very least, Middle Earth would certain-
ly have looked a bit wackier and more
steam punk under his aesthetic. But even
with Peter Jackson’s tempered and trial-
tested vision, The Hobbit as a movie will

be considerably less conservative than
The Lord of the Rings ﬁlms were.

For one, The Hobbit is not just a
single movie, but will be split over three
separate ﬁlms. The three movies are
titled An Unexpected Journey, The Des-
olation of Smaug, and There and Back
Again, respectively. Fans usually fall
into two camps: the ﬁrst consists of those
who are ecstatic that the excitement will
be prolonged, and the other is comprised
of people concerned, and rightly so, that
by adding so much material, the movie
will move’ away from Tolkien’s original
vision.

So what exactly is Jackson adding?
Much of the extra content is inspired by

,Tolkien’s Appendices. We can expect to

see some background on the fall of the
dwarven kingdom (the Lonely Moun-
tain), the workings of the White Coun-
cil, Gandalf’s solitary adventures when
he leaves Bilbo and the dwarves, and
the addition of several characters not

1 in the book. Legolas, Elrond, and even

Galadriel will make an appearance. And

. from the trailer, we know that the story

will be told Princess Bride-style with
an elderly Bilbo reading his story to his
nephew F rodo.

Even more worrisome are the subtler
controversial liberties Jackson is taking.
Attractive beardless dwarves? A sexy elf
warrior woman? Jackson and Philippa
Boyens, the screen writer, say they have
no problem bringing the book “up to
modern times,” hence the inclusion of
a female warrior, and such. However,
those of us who consider the book to be
a universal classic don’t feel the need to

have a ﬁery woman leading the Mirk-
wood elven guard. This is not a question
of sexism. Rather, it’s a question of re-
specting the brilliance of Tolkien’s vi-
sion and the timelessness of his story. As
for the beards... come on.

How Jackson will balance the light
storytelling style of the book with its
more serious themes is another area of

concern. Tolkien wrote The Hobbit as a
children’s book, and therefore its prose
is simpler and more humorous than that
of The Lord of the Rings. Translating this
humor without cheapening the story will
be a challenge given the book’s more
complex themes, such as humanity’s de-
sire for comfort versus our innate long-
ing for adventure.

be as precious?

     

Overall, I believe The Hobbit will be
an outstanding ﬁlm on its own. Howev-
er, the extent of its loyalty to the book
and how it treats the scenes that diverge
from the original remain questionable. I,
along with all of the Lord of the Rings
junkies across the country, will be hold-
ing my breath until December 14th,
when The Hobbit will be released at last.

Rush

By Christian Kennedy
STA F F w R IT E R

lf you are a ﬁrst-year‘ male student,
it is most likely that you are interested
in joining a fraternity, and _it is equally
likely that you have no idea what goes
on during formal rush week. So before
all the confusion, here is a little descrip-
tion of some of the festivities. ’

On either Sunday night or Monday of
formal rush week, a list will be posted in
the dorms with your name that has you
set up with four separate dinner or des-
sert events to take place between Tues-
day and Wednesday, located at four dif-
ferent fraternities. The location is based
on your top four fraternity preferences.
You can see where all of your friends
are scheduled to go as well, so you can
plan to go to certain places with friends
beforehand.

After attending these events, which
almost always require formal attire, if a
fraternity wants to give you a bid, they
will let you know on either of those two
days, and invite you back for dinner on
Thursday. Thursday is bid night, where
you receive your actual bid from the fra-
ternity, and engage in the fraternity’s tra-
ditional festivities. Some people will go
to multiple fraternities to get bids ifthey

0:]; What you need to know

have not yet decided on one.

After you get a bid or multiple bids on
Thursday, during the day on Friday, you
will go to Student Affairs in the Com-
mons and ofﬁcially sign your bid card
for the fraternity you have chosen. That
Friday night is No-Contact Night, where
your prospective pledge class will get
together for an evening of completely
sober activities, board games, and such.

And ﬁnally, Saturday evening, Tear
Night, is the last day before the begin-
ning of pledging, and is usually a mixer
with another sorority, and possibly the
most life-threatening night of your ﬁrst-
year experience. Prospective pledges
have quite a blast on this last night of
freedom to kick off what is sure to be a
fun and educational eight weeks of New
Member Education.

Overall, the rush process for male
ﬁrst-years is a bit less stressful and dra-
matic than the female equivalent; how-
ever, it is still important to know what is
going on so you are not caught unaware.
So good luck to all the ﬁrst-years, and
may the Greek gods be with you during
this fantastic week.

By Leah Gose

5 TA F F w R IT E R
Congratulations.’ Ladies, you have
reached the last weekof informal rush.
After what has been essentially a four-
month-long girl-date, you can probably
name the six sororities whose houses
you will visit during formal rush week.
You might (okay, you probably do) have

    

an idea about what sorority you would
like to be a sister in - right‘? My ﬁrst
piece of advice: walk into formal rush
with an open mind.

The different processes that all the
sororities use to build a pledge class (aka
the girls who will become sisters with
you) work. I have no idea how (and trust
me when I say no one does), but rest as-
sured that you will most likely end up
where you belong. Formal rush week is
singularly yours - always consider your

Top 10 Wags to iemcvnstévvnte stuola for Fi.v\.aLsf

1) Iwastesomuchtimecom. You’re welcome.
2) Following #studying, #finalsweek, and #co||egeproblems on Twitter. lt’s never been
more thrilling to see all your stress condensed into 140 characters or less.

3) Deck the halls - literally. Its time to break out the boughs of holly, partridge on the pear
tree, chestnuts roasting on an open fire, and dreidel, dreidel, dreidel (yes, all three of
them!) to celebrate the most wonderful time of the year. 1
4) Stalking all your friends’ photos from Christmas Weekend on Facebook. You’re using"
your research skills, so that’s productive, right? ,
5) Been naughty or nice? Write your wish list for the holidays, and while you’re at it, your
letter to Santa (we know who you are). You deserve it.
6) Updating your Pinterest with everything you couldn’t fit onto your wish list.

7) Hanging out on the main floor of Leybs. Maybe if you surround yourself with people w
ho are actually studying, you’ll feeling like you’re working too! .

8) Create your holiday playlist. Didn’t get enough of Mariah at X’mas in the Country?
Well, here’s your time to shine. |t’s totally cool if you’re playing “All I Want for Christmas
is You” for the fifth time... on repeat... in the last hour.
9) Watching “25 Days of Christmas” on ABC. All those Hallmark holiday specials.

And is that a Home Alone marathon?!

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

So much TV, so little time.’

10) Wishing for snow. Sure, we’ve all heard of the rain dance, but what about the snow

dance? Bring it on.

BONUS: All the articles on College Humor about finals week. And all the videos. And
pictures- Okay, make that everything. i '

feelings ﬁrst and,do not takegut reac-
tions for granted.

You’ve got three wonderful weeks
for Winter Break, and from this Friday
until the end of formal rush week, a
strict code of no-contact between soror-
ity and non—sorority women is assumed

(i.e. no talking outside of studying for
ﬁnals and no Contact at all during the
holidays). It will be a tad awkward at
ﬁrst, but think of it like a diet from the
Speaking Tradition.

When you get back to campus on Jan.
7th, the ﬁrst night is Open House - you
will visit all the houses and at the end of
the evening, you will rank the sororities
according to your desire to be a sister
there. As the week goes on, you will be
invited back to fewer and fewer houses

(to help narrow both your and the sorori-
ties’ preferences) and the outﬁts will get
“fancier” (remember - you’re dressing
for other women, not men).

On Thursday, you will return to a
maximum of two houses (and some-
times only one) for the last event night.
From when you go to the houses to af-
ter you “pref” your top sorority, you are
not to speak to any other women. Strict
no-contact between sorority and non-
sorority women begins after Thursday
(“Pref”) night until you possibly receive
a bid (an offer to join a house) on Friday
late afternoon.

By this point, you’ll be dead tired,
because you thought it would be smarter
to gossip and not do your homework
(seriously, don’t forget about home-
workl). Friday night is spent with your
new soon—to—be sisters and the festivities
continue into Saturday night. The all-
campus party is (to say the least) excit-
ing, so be safe and stay with your new
“family.”

My last piece of advice - don’t let this
confusing process scare you. You make
the sorority great- it is not the other way
around. So, take a deep breath and get
ready for a lot of smiles and small talk.

 Twitter @berkysfo-ed

gezée It at’  

"Hands Down the Tastfast Truckstap in America"
— The Trave! Channel. Most Extreme T.-uckstaps

Hiinw (‘an-£'vii' .‘|»i'r':ri‘.~ at .S‘imtiu~rn h'mpi:rJ!.r'l'_i*.'

Orriwfrrim our L'ﬂm}'.|u't"i'I'.’ mmm
Ur Jm'rr uxﬁwr our ufuur .-ILL YOU l'.f'.«I.~"i' E.-I T BHj]'i.'b.'
Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 5 am - 10:30 am
Saturday 3: Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm

Da Iy Hm Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 113 pm

Soup. Salad. & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Fnda»,-F Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - it) pm
Sun(lF_w Baked Clmglugn 8. Pork Luin11 am - 9 pint
Friday 8- Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

()rdr:r ‘Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-S1 5; l—B4. Exit 195. 2515 N. Lee Hwy. Lexington. VA 2-1450

540 4463-3478
www.|ea-hi.-com See our menu uni’.-‘ne

E Find us on Face hook

 

- THE RING-TUM PHI -

arts&life

Student QIPEEEET

3

IIIIIII

Down

1. Where many band parties are held during Homecoming and
Christmas Weekend.

2. Aka Huntley. Business, econ, politics, and accounting majors
unite!

3. Craving super-sized pizza slices and gigantic platters of pasta?
This popular Italian restaurant is the place to go.

5. Home of the hummus bar, fro-yo machine, Sunday brunches, and
too many lovely ﬁrst-year memories to count.

7. The center of campus, this building houses D—Hall, the Co-op,
the Living Room, and the bookstore, just to name a few.

8. Where you ﬁnd the best bagels on campus. And the smoothies
are pretty good, too.

10. Abbreviation for “sorority,” or the female equivalent of “frat.”
Also used in “Girl, ~_ it!”

11. The infamous black-tie affair that sweeps over campus every
March. Last year, we went to Russia. This year, who knows?

13. Need shampoo, hangers, Oreos, or towels? Just over a mile
away from campus, this iconic superstore has it all.

Across

4. Stranded at Windfall on a Saturdaynight? Have no
fear, is here! (Actually getting a seat, on the
other hand, is a completely different story...)

6. Endearing nickname for good 01’ Lexington. Also
reminiscent of a certain famous city in Nevada.

7. Open until 2 in the morning, and here to satisfy all
your late-night cravings. (No, it’s not Wendy’s.)

9. For 98% of the student body, this is your very ﬁrst
W&L party during O-Week.

12. The only time of the year when you can party with
Mom and Dad. <

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

By Mariel Pearl
STAFF wmrsa

On'Nov. 30, the S udent Association for

. International Learnin p_rese.nted”Showcase for

Morocco!" at 8:00 p.
talent show was a fu

in the Marketplace. The

' poverty-stricken you 1, ‘A
-Gir|s,”a non-proﬁt or 

‘ .Kamara, and Renée Pr‘

lnvisibles claimed ﬁrs

was awarded second,

bronze. Congratulatio‘
articipants!

M 0 N DAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

By Hendley Badcock
STA F F W R I T E R

As the semester draws to a close and
you think about your plans for the new
year, keep lntramurals in mind. The
week ofJanuary l4 marks the beginning
of one of the most popular lMs at Wash-
ington and Lee, volleyball. As many as
thirty teams, men and women, generally
participate in IM volleyball each year.
Matches take place in the evenings for
two weeks in Doremus Gym.

Assistant Director of Campus Rec-

reation Ray Ellington explains that
matches are played using the standard,
Varsity set up. While Ellington estab-
lishes schedules, assigns ofﬁcials, and
purchases equipment, students operate
the actual games.

“Volleyball is traditionally managed
and oiﬁciated by a good number of the
Varsity players,” Ellington states. Man-
aging matches gives Varsity athletes “the
opportunity to be around the game they

   
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

enjoy and support their sorority teams”
since they are not permitted to play their
sport at the IM level. As with.all lM
sports, volleyball fosters an entertaining
environment. that allows both students
and faculty the opportunity to stay active
and healthy, even during the harsh winter
months. i
Registration will begin Jan. 7 and con-
clude at noon on the 10th. Forms for
all lM’s can be found online. .Ellington

9 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

   Juniors
step up

By Shelby Flores
STA F F WRITER

‘I.

The Washington & Lee men’s track
and ﬁeld head coach does not believe the
youth on his team will be a problem this
season.

“I look at the fact that we only have
three seniors as a plus for our team, es-
... pecially moving forward,” Brandon Uhl
said. “We have a very good group ofju-
nior leadership that helps our team.”

Uhl said that the primary goal for this
— season is for the team to work hard each

day and continually develop the skills
necessary throughout the season so the
. ..  team can be the best it can be.
After eight weeks of training, the Gen-
. erals opened the 2012-l3 season at the
Liberty Kick Off last weekend. Overall,
Uhl said he was pleased with how the
ﬁrst meet went and that the team will
continue to focus on improvement.

The Generals will return to competition
at the Marietta Invitational on Jan. 12.

 
  

suggests teams of around 10 to 12 play-
ers, as it takes at least 6 to ﬁeld a team.
Forms are to be turned in to 416 Warner
Center. A Captains’ Meeting will take
place in Doremus at 6:00 p.m. followed ‘ 7
by an Ofﬁcials’ Meeting at 6:30Tp.m. El- .
lington will post match schedules online I
and at 416 Warner Center by noon on the =. -~
1 lth. For more information, contact Ray
Ellington at sellington@wlu.edu.

Junior Parker Howard
Courtesy of W&L Sports Infor-
mation

  

replace him. Both decisr
many. Phil .Ja'ckson:lwas th
the head coaching job, and the
take in hiring D’Anton _ ' ’

After Mike Brown w is " M
that Phil Jackson w_ou "
conﬁrmed that the Laker
him. Phil Jackson
- is considered o ‘

Mike D’Antoni, on the ot_:'
reach Jackson’s level.._of_,.greaV
greatest success was his highly. en fta
en-seconds-or-less system ’_withvthe-gt lioe x Suns.
D’Antoni led the Sunsdeep ’i'nto t

after year (leading the Suns

..e‘ -.fstill,’?'l,1ave',f~'
.3-.. l.1énc¢’.t0.5¢ :*
= strong’ competi-
‘ sbthis season »
.1th_" D’Antoni i_

at the helm;

‘ad the Lak-’ I

érs -l_1ired"JaCk-
son, ‘ the. Lakers

i . would have had

back MVP Steve Nash. -Per
parison to this LA Lake A

_ami Heat, is the New

D’Antoni coached. lnlNe'v‘v ork, l)"
forced to deal with see ‘

ning‘‘recipe. Soon aﬁer D n ‘nil ‘ "York,

the"Knicks started showing a great deal of promise.’

Joining the Lakers, vD."’Ai1toni__wi|l ‘,bfe.‘f2tced with

the same task — dealing wit needy uperstars — on
a much larger scale, anjdwith much ‘more: pre"ssure.,:.
D’Antoni will crumble under. the-media‘ scrutiny, ,
because he lacks the proven‘ successand imposing’, J

toni was - i.

glyi incompatible super- ~
stars, Amare Stoudemi1:e’and‘Canhelo Anthony.’
D’Antoni’ was unableto ﬁ_ da al " _c and a'win--

_v the ehafnce to
.»:be one 7of the
A bestteamsofall A
time..T_he vision‘ .
of what could; I
hav' been 5 a 
; super‘ team ’ of
V ffou'r_"future .all- A

V ' coa

.:!l‘hé1intl 'La.k-V ’ ' 5’

ers fans forever."

Los Angeles Lakers have some of the big-
gest names in the__NBA on their roster right
now. Steve Nash‘,’Dw'ight Howard and Kobe
Bryant arenames even the casual sports fan can
recognize. They. came together to form a top
contender, a team to beat in the West. But they
started the season 1-4. And coach Mike Brown
was ﬁred after just one full season and ﬁve
games. The Lakers seemed to jump the gun
when they ﬁred Brown; the team is in a period
of adjustment, and the season had a long way
to go with 77 games left. Nonetheless they had

- — ‘ a decision to
make: who
would be the
new coach of
the LA Lak-
ers‘?

The press
jumped at
the idea of
Phil Jackson
retuming as
head coach.
Jackson
coached the
Lakers for ll
seasons and
ﬁve national
champion-
ships before

 

\\\‘\.‘§.‘\ \\\\\‘§.‘\

fore he had the opportunity to send his agent
to LA to meet with the front ofﬁce, Mike
D’Antoni was interviewed and offered the po-
sition. Even though Jacksonseemed to be the
easy decision, D’Antoni was the right decision.

D’Antoni is less accomplished, yes. Less
experienced, yes. But he is a better ﬁt. This
Lakers team is not the same one Jackson had '
two years ago. and without the technicals, his
coaching style wasn‘t as compatible with this
new team. D'Antoni provides a more ﬁtting
style. He also has experience with many ofthe
players aﬁer helping to coach the USA.Olym-
pic team during the 20l2 Summer Olympics.
He also has experience and chemistry with for-
mer Phoenix Sun, Steve Nash, from his tenure
as Suns head coach.

The Lakers couldn’t afford to move back-
wards; they‘re a L rent team in a more dif-
ﬁcult Western Confe nee than ever. Jackson‘s.
hesitation showed that he couldn’t have whole-
heartedly rejoined the organization. He left
the organ tion for a reason, and there is no
need to backtrack. Since D’Antoni began head
coaching. the Lakers have gone 3-3. While not
spectacular. the team seems to be getting on
the right track with an 8-8
record. ‘ D’Antoni has
high  l , expectations
for the ‘ Lakers, and
with ‘ V .  =- their roster

_V,_;:.m.-2-.,,__

Yhe Lakers recentlyﬁred'Head Coach
Mike Brown after the team went 1-4. 7hey
replaced him with Mike Dklntoni, but there

are many who believe that the Lakers should
have hired Phil Jackson. Who should have
gotten the job?
Kyle and Hailey give you their take.

Mike Brown
became

head coach.
Jackson was
asked to re-
join LA. but
asked for a
chance to
consider. Be-

and . ; his role as
head A ' . . coach, they

: j . > should be
met, . - A j  and the Lak-
ers ‘  - . should be the
force \ ‘ 7 ” _ in the
NBA. J 

  

10 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers
2:39

The time that it took Andrew Luck to lead the Indianapolis
Colts to two touchdowns to come from behind to defeat the
Detroit Lions 35-33. The game winning touchdown was a

14-yard pass to Donnie Avery with no time left on the clock.

3

The total number of years since Kansas City Chiefs quarter-
back Brady Quinn has led a touchdown drive. He did it last
in December of 2309 when he was the quarterback for the

Cleveland Browns. The Chiefs defeated the Carolina Pan-

thers 27-21.

24»

Tlie total number of years since the Notre Dame Fighting ‘
Irish has won the National Championship. That was also the
last season that they finished the regular season at the top
of the Associated Press College Football Poll. They will play

for the National Championship on Jan. 7 against the Ala-

bama crimson Tide.

soapbox

“From the get—go, from the ﬁrst play, it just
wasn't my day. ”

-NawYorkJel3quartarbackMarkSancliezaI'lnrttIelrnnie
varsusthehlzona cardlnalsonsundqy. sanchezthrewfor
]ust97yardswlu1thraelnheroepuonsbeforebelngbenched
In thethlnd quarter. Thlrd-suing quarterback Greg McElrw
ledtl1eJcl3tothe 7-Bvlchorywllh atouchdawn In hlsllrst
NFL drive, from EsPN.com

‘‘I’m going to tell you, I think it’s a crying
shame Georgia doesn’t get to go to a BCS
bowl game. They should get to go to a BCS
bowl game. They played a tremendous
game. out there today. That was just a great
football game by both teams, and they
could have won at the end just as soon as
us. It came right down to the last play.”

-Alabama crlmsonlldecoach Nlcksabanal'harA|abama
deI'eatndtheUnlversltyofGeorgla32-28lnthesEctllle
ame. Helalnrsaldtl1atltwasrI’tfaIrthatteamsthathavaa
worsoriaoordbutwlnthelrcorrferencetlueasttogotioaacs
bowlgarnewhen UGAdoesn't¢atthatopporlunlly.

“Just because our players don't have huge
name recognition doesn’t mean we're not
fun to watch and can't compete. Sure,
people relate to star power, but we believe
in the team aspect and‘ we’re marketing
this team as a team instead of a group of

individuals.”

- Phoenlxsuns Presldentlason Rowleyabout ‘Satisfaction
Guarantee Night’. On Dec. Gthesunsormnlmtlon will be
guararrlleelngthatfanswlll havefun attheame ortheycan
gatthelrmonejback.

ondeck

Monday

Women’s Swimming

BBa11 falls to 22nd-ranked team

By Bailey Russell
STAFF wnman

Thursday night at Mary Washington, the
women’s basketball team was defeated in a
56-38 loss to UMW. Washington and Lee se-
nior forward Rachel Warrick tied up the game
_at the 5:16 mark of the ﬁrst half, but UMW’s

Senior Katy Wilson
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

junior guard scored 5 points, carrying the Ea-
gles to a 24-19 lead going into the break.
W&L got no closer than 10 points the ma-
jority' of the second half as the Eagles pulled
away for their second straight win in the

series. The Generals were led by ﬁrst-year
guard Alena Hamrick, who totaled 11 points
and 4 rebounds. Senior forward Katy Wilson
notched 9 points and 4 boards, while Warrick
tallied 8 points.

With added depth, Generals set eyes on the title

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee women‘s track and
ﬁeld team is striving for an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championship win this
yean

“It would be amazing to take home the team
title,” said junior captain Leigh Dannhauser.
“It was very close last year at the indoor meet

 

xix-L

Sophomore Jillian Katterhagen
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Tuesday - Wednesday

and I think we all agree that we can come out
on top this year.”

Both Dannhauser and senior captain Lauren
Schultz think that the team has greatly im-
proved in all-around depth from last season.
The squad only lost one senior last year and
added 15 ﬁrst-years this year.

l~'3*l.FlTlY

Thursday Friday

The team performed well at the Liberty Kick
Off last weekend to open up the 2012-13 sea-
son. The Generals faced competition from Di-
vision I, II, and Ill schools and were able to
make it into the Top 5 in nine events.

The Generals’ next competition will be on
Jan. l2 at the Marietta invitational.

      
  

 

Saturday Sunday

Men’s Swimming

Women’s Track

Men’s Track

Women’s "Basketball

Men’s Basketball at Ferrum 7 pm

vs. Averett 7 pm

Wrestling

 

 

 
 

aewwrears

clpwmgm ml:

A&L/g page 6

If that’s

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSl,'1Yi 

whata up affl   A   ,
what you were thinking after 
selling back books, you’re not alone.

OPINIONS / page 4 1

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2 0 13

By Andrea Owen
5 TA F F w R IT E R

With the challenges of winter weather
and all concurrent patterns at Washing-
ton and Lee—from “New Member Edu-
cation” to academic stressors——the sec-
ond term takes a toll on student health.

Seasonal Affective Disorder

“There are certainly people who are
sensitive to less light in the winter,” said
Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Student
Health and Counseling Services, as she
described Seasonal Affective Disorder,
or SAD.

MayoClinic deﬁnes SAD as “a type of
depression that occurs at the same time
every year,” usually during the fall and
winter months.

According to the National College
Health Assessment survey data from
2012, the percentage of students at W&L
who “have felt very sad” within the last
12 months is 69.1%, which is almost
10% higher than the national average,
61.0%. I

With a population at seemingly higher
risk for mood issues, the school is pre-
pared to deal with SAD.

As bright light exposure has been

Avoiding

B STUDENTS

the school offers light lamps at various
campus locations: Leyburn Library (5
lamps), the Science Center Library (2
lamps) and the Law Library (2 lamps).
The school tells students, however, that
natural light has a stronger effect than do
therapeutic lamps.

Horton also assured the student body
that the Counseling and Student Health
Centers are available to students with
symptoms of depression.

ln addition to the disturbance of mental
health at this time of year is the distur-
bance of physical health.

“There are also people who probably
don’t get out and get as much exercise
during the winter,” said Horton.

She emphasized that getting regu-
lar exercise as well as eating right and
sleeping 7-8 hours a night support not
only one’s immune system but also his/
her emotional health.

Sororities and Fraternities

And in addition to the challenges of
the weather that cause health problems
at this time of year are factors more spe-
ciﬁc to W&L.

“Winter term seems to be quite stressfulfor students

given that they are trying to do ﬁraternity and soror-

ity recruitment and new member education on top of

a busy academic schedule. ”

JANE HORTON, Director of Student Health and counseling Services

found to alleviate symptoms of SAD,

“Winter term seems to be quite stress-

AND FOR
0

ful for students given that they
are trying to do fraternity and so-
rority recruitment and new mem-
ber education on top of a busy
academic schedule,” said Hor-
ton, describing some of the pri-
mary concerns the Health Center
has for students in January and

 

INTHE LASTIZMONTH
.._.VVERY,SAD V.

THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXV|l,NUMBER11

S.A.D this Winter term

  

s, HAVE You

   

February.
“There are times when we’ve
had to write notes to the pledge

educator of the fraternity or
president of the fraternity ask-
ing students to be excused from
what activities are supposed to be
mandatory,” said Horton.

 

Horton said that she believes

 

pledge educators do in fact honor

  
 

Health Centerrequests.

She also said that not only
does pledgeship often interfere
with sleep and cause numerous
alcohol-related health concerns,

Males Females

U.S,'col|ege students" 51.00% 66.30% 5 ’
W&L students 54.60% ’ 76.40%
...V.ERY LONELY

, . Males . ‘Females TQta.l A  “"7"
U.S. college students 77.20% 91.00% 5  ‘86.10%
W241 stiidents ' 82.50% 96.40%» '

...,E-XHAU STE D(NOT FROMPHYSICAL AcT1v1Tv‘)i 

» R611 (1%.

 
 

. 7;,’

    

but that fraternity and sorority —. g , Males Fema|es‘— '5 ‘Total »  
members are, she believed, much 1 ’ ’ 1 ‘N  1 T. ‘I
61036,“, each other at this time US. college students 73.20% 86.10%  .1 ,.,_8_1.6,0%,,
of year. allowing gems to Spread W&L students 79.40% 91.50% . ” '87.4Q%_‘
quickly. I ‘  ' ” ‘
“we’11 often see 3 or 10 mem- the week. ter, the University makes sure there are

bers of a fraternity all coming in with the
same symptoms over a weeklong period,
and that is presumably being passed
from person to person,” said Horton.
Jan Kaufman, W&L’s Director of
Health Promotion, added that disease
is common at this time of year because
people have brought back illness from
their winter travels. In fact, Dr. Horton
said in a Tuesday meeting that she ex-
pected to see the ﬁrst case of ﬁu within

Prevention

“We are aware that [winter term] is a
more difﬁcult time for people at the Uni-
versity,” said Jason Rodocker, Assistant
Dean for First-Year Experience. “We
deﬁnitely do make certain that there are
a lot of activities and options, a lot of
positives going on.”

Rodocker explained that to help stu-
dents deal with the stresses of the win-

plenty of events through organizations
like Outing Club.

Jan Kaufman also emphasized the text-
book methods of personal care, such as
exercising, eating right, washing hands
and getting enough sleep, to help stu-
dents deal with the health issues of win-
ter term. .

“I can’t overemphasize that,” she said.

 

Washington H

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Washington Hall, the oldest building
on campus, now looks like the newest.
F-A . . . .
 ’  N 1‘ .| . ‘
. .-“J ..-‘jrgﬂy  

2011.

For just the second time in nearly 200
years, it has been renovated. Opening
ﬁrst in 1824, this winter term it opened
for the ﬁrst time since mid-July 20,11,
welcoming the Oﬁices of the President
and Provost, University Advancement,
a few professors in the English Depart-
ment and nearly all faculty members of
the Philosophy Department. '

The Ofﬁces of the President, Provost
and University Advancement had been
in Mattingly House prior to moving in.
Faculty in the English and Philosophy
Departmentshad had offices in Baker
Hall.

“The exterior should look fresh and re-
newed,” said Tom Kalasky, Director of
Design and Construction at Washington
and Lee’ University. “The interiors, we
call that a historic rehabilitation, where

we’re very sensitive to maintaining as
much of the historic fabric as possible.”

1-‘ 5 -

The $7.5 million renovation is part of
Washington and Lee University’s $50
million, ﬁve-year blueprint for restor-
ing the ﬁve main buildings comprising
the Colonnade, designated a National
Historic Landmark in 1972 by the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior. Washington
Hall, the center building on the Colon-
nade, has not been modernized since it
was made ﬁreproofin 1936.

The crux of the problem is preserving
the building’s historic status while reha-
bilitating its outdated components. “The
challenges are always, ‘How do you get
modern systems into a building while
still maintaining the historic fabric?’,”
said Kalasky.

The University has acknowledged as
much, having named its capital cam-
paign, “Honor Our Past, Build Our Fu-

all opens its doors

I

ture: The Campaign for Washington and
Lee.” The renovation of this and other

‘?  _ ‘ .i_._i,. ~ :1’

Washington Hall has just opened up for Winter Term. It has been closed due to renovations since July

buildings on the Colonnade is funded, in
part, by this projected $500 million ef-
fort which, thus far, has amassed $384
million.

Similarly, Washington Hall, by recog-
nizing the University’s continuing tradi-
tion of philanthropy, has honored its past
in a manner which the newly-renovated
Newcomb and Payne Halls did not.

Kalasky said that in spring 2011,
“President Ruscio invited a commit-
tee to recommend a design plan for the
lobby that would honor George Wash-
ington’s philanthropy to W&L, connect
ﬁiture support to that tradition and create
a welcoming destination that reinforces
the centrality of Washington Hall to the
visitor and student experience.”

The lobby now features the Honored
Benefactors Wall, displaying the ap-

 

pellations of benefactors who have en-
dowed the University with $l million or
more.

The typical classroom now has a re-
cessed screen, central air and /heating,
an overhead projector and Wi-Fi access.
Throughout the facility, new install-
ments include handicapped—accessible
toilets, elevators, fire alarms, automatic
door openers and a sprinkler system.
Faculty offices have been equipped with
storm windows, new furniture and larger
bookshelves.

What have been removed, however, are
window air conditioning units. In the
past, they had been so noisy that students
and faculty had had trouble hearing each
other.

“One of the points in our strategic‘

plan,” said Kalasky, “is to provide an ed-
ucation for the 21 st century. We _want to
build out space that meets the program-
matic needs ofthe University.”

Renovation on Robinson and Tucker
Halls has not yet begun, but will likely
conclude in 2015.

Construction workers workon the statue of George Washington

atop Washington Hall.

 

 

JAN15 

2 * THE RING-TUlV| PHI -

M on DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

 

Contact preps for Paul

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Former l2-term Congressman and
three-time Presidential Primary Candi-
date Ron Paul will deliver the ﬁrst speech

policies based on commodity-backed
currency.
He is known among both his colleagues

currence of current national issues such
as debt, privacy and freedom to the gov-
emment’s neglect to follow the U.S. Con-

Ron Paul will be speaking to W&L students in Lee Chapel on Tuesday. Doors open at 6 p.m. and seat-

ing is limited.

of his 2013 College Tour on Tuesday in
Lee Chapel. The event is sponsored by
Contact Committee, the Washington and
Lee University Politics Department and
W&L College Republicans.

There will be a table in the Elrod Coin-
mons on Monday and Tuesday from l0
a.m. to 2 p.m. with information about the
event, free Contact Committee gear and a
chance to win free VIP seating.

Congressman Ron Paul of Texas enjoys
a national reputation as the premier ad-

vocate for liberty in politics today. Paul ‘

is the leading spokesman for limited con-
stitutional government, low taxes, free
markets, and a return to sound monetary

in Congress and his constituents for his
consistent voting record in the House
of Representatives: Paul never votes for
legislation unless the proposed measure
is expressly authorized by the U.S. Con-
stitution. In the words of former Trea-
sury Secretary William Simon, Paul is the
“one exception to the Gang of 535” on
Capitol Hill.

At the podium, Paul is known to de-
liver a candid look at the dysfunctional
American political system. Using anec-
dotes from his 23 years in Congress, he
highlights the need for a limited govern-
ment and more personal liberties. Paul
captivates audiences by relating the oc-

stitution.

Despite the less than ideal condition
of the country, Paul is an optimist. His
unwavering passion leaves audiences
motivated to speak out, wake up and let
politicians know what they want. A

Doors open at 6 p.m. and the event is
free and open to the public. Seating is
limited.

Applications pour in

By Hamlet Fort
s TA F F w R lT E R

The Washington and Lee Admissions
Ofﬁce witnessed a 5% increase in Early
Decision I applicants from 20l 1, ac-
cording to a press release from the W&L
News and Media Ofﬁce.

Admissions accepted 192 students out
of 464 applicants, an approximate ad-
missions rate of 41 percent. The total
number of applicants increased from
443 applicants in 201 l_.

The Early Decision program is bind-
ing, and the application deadline of Nov.
15 was the first oftwo ED deadlines for
this admissions cycle. The second dead-

3 line was Jan. 1, the same deadline for ap-

..‘..

plications for Regular Decision and the
Johnson Scholarship.

Prospective students admitted through
Early Decision will withdraw all other
applications to other colleges and uni-
versities. The Early Decision 11 program
is also binding, and more applicants
for each incoming class are applying
through Early Decision.

The academic strength of the ED stu-
dents of 2017 is as strong as any W&L
has seen, according to the press release.
The general academic proﬁle of accept-
ed students including class rank and SAT
and ACT scores are top-quality.

 

v

According to the Admissions Office
and the press release, the students ac-
cepted for the Class of 2017 through
Early Decision are among the most di-
verse group of students ever accepted.
Nearly 20% of the admitted students
are of American minorities, Pell Grant
recipients or ﬁrst-generation college stu-
dents,raccording to the Communications
Ofﬁce’s release.

Early”Decision ll applicants will be in-
formed of their decisions later this term,
and Regular Decision applicants will
ﬁnd out their fate around Apr. 1.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

STAFF WRITER

Mercury levels doubled

The latest statistics from the UN report that the mercury level in the earth’s
oceans has doubled in the past 100 years. Coal plants and small-scale gold min-
ing are increasing spread and thus people’s exposure to the toxin. Serious health
concerns have led officials in Geneva to try and create an international treaty that
will cut mercury levels in the ocean.

Poverty gap grows between southern and
northern Europe .

The economic crisis in Europe has created a severe poverty gap between
southern and northern Europe, according to the EU. Jerez, a city in southern
Spain, is now the most indebted city in the country, owing at least $6000 for ev-
ery inhabitant. Government public services have been withdrawn, encouraging
charities to aid the poor in order to survive.

Bus accident devastates in Bolivia

A passenger bus overturned on a major highway in Bolivia early Saturday.
Eight people were pronounced dead and at least 36 others were injured. The
injured were taken to a local hospital for treatment. Authorities are waiting for
more information on the state of other victims.

Raids in Kenya continue

Thursday marked another in the series of raids in Kenya’s Tana River delta
region. Ten were reported dead and another two wounded. This raid happened
only a day after another raid in a nearby village left nine people dead. These are
the latest attacks in an area that has been experiencing ongoing violence since
August between farmers and their pastoral neighbors.

Bolivia in anti-narcotic convention

Bolivia was readmitted to the UN’s anti-narcotics convention on Saturday
after it pulled out over a year ago. The country’s condition for its return was the
decriminalization of the coca leaf. The coca leaf, an ingredient in the making of
cocaine, was outlawed by the 196] UN convention along with other narcotics.
However, Bolivians, who have been chewing the raw leaf for centuries, argue
that the cocoa plant has health beneﬁts.

French president pushes for Gay marriage

The French president, Francois Hollande, has been pushing legislation to le-
galize gay marriage and adoption and seems to have a Parliamentary majority
in his favor. However, the ﬁrst mass demonstration in Paris since he took ofﬁce
occurred on Sunday protesting the bills. Thousands of Parisians organized in a
demonstration they are calling “pro-marriage rather than particularly anti-gay.”

I
India protests sexual assautt
Mass protests in India are pleading for police to be more active in ﬁghting
against growing rates of sexual assault in thecountry. Those in charge seem to
be listening as six men have already been arrested for the gang rape of a woman

on Friday. The attack was very similar to the Dec. 16 attack that sparked all of '

the protests.

Taliban suspected in Pakistan attacks

An attack near Dosali village in Pakistan took place early Sunday morning.
A'roadside bomb hit a military convoy, demolishing two vehicles and damaging
one other. The most recent report counted at least 17 soldiers dead and at least
another 22 wounded. Although the attackers have not been conﬁrmed, ofﬁcials
suspect the bomb was the work of the Taliban.

By Hannah Howard

 

 

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

  
 

  

. \

Spring term gets quirky;

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

The University Registrar Ofﬁce re-
leased its ﬁnal list of course offerings
for the spring term over winter break,
featuring a variety of new and previ-
ously popular courses.

New courses have been added in
multiple departments, including sci-
ence and politics. English courses
like Superheroes and sciences cours-
es like Disorder & Chaos remain as
spring term staples.

In the science department, a new
class called CS1: W&L, an inter-
disciplinary course of biology and
chemistry that will be co-taught by
Assistant Professor of Biology Fiona
Watson and Associate Professor of
Chemistry Fred LaRiviere.

According to wlu.edu, the course is
an introduction to forensic science,
a ﬁeld that applies science to the
criminal justice system. The course
will require students to analyze trace
physical evidence, such as glass and
ﬁber, and biological evidence like
hair and blood.

The purpose of the laboratory is
to “analyze collected crime scene
samples and to utilize some of the
commonly-used forensic techniques
such as microscopy, chromatogra-
phy, and spectroscopy,” according
to the course description. CSI: W&L
fulﬁlls the science laboratory FDR
and is suited for non-science majors
in all grade levels.

Among the available politics cours-
es, Topics in Public Policy is a course
that is consistently offered, but fre-
quently changes subject matter. This
year, Associate Professor of Politics
Rebecca Harris will be lecturing
about food policy.

Harris said that she developed the
topic following the recent drought.
“It put a renewed interest in the price
of food, modern farming and food in-
dustry practices, and believe it or not,

food policy is almost never discussed
in political science considerations of
public policy,” she said.

According to Harris, students will
participate in several ﬁeld trips to lo-
cal livestock auctions, vegetable auc-
tions, feed mills and large production
farms, and will then analyze the ex-
perience based on content learned in
class.

“Another part of the course will
focus on food industry politics, with
a ﬁeld trip to the largest supplier
of non-grocery food, Sysco Corp,
as well as considerations of school
lunches and the health food indus-
try,” Harris added.

Food Policy does not have any pre-
requisites and fulﬁlls one of the so-
cial science requirements.

Certain spring term courses are
popular each year, especially Su-
perheroes, an English course taught
by Visiting Assistant Professor of
English Mr. Chris Gavaler, who at-
tributes the course’s initial popularity
to its name.

According to Gavaler, the idea for
the course was suggested by a group
of W&L students in the honors pro-
gram. Gavaler was immediately
interested as someone who loved
reading comic books in his youth and
with his children today.

“While on the surface superheroes
seem like a particularly silly looking
top layer of pop culture nonsense, if
you dig just a little, the genre reﬂects
some of the most important political
and cultural issues of the 20th cen-
tury,” Gavaler said.

According to Gavaler, the course
focuses on the development of the su-
perhero character, beginning in 1938
through present day. Students will
study literary texts and write their
own creative works. This course sat-
isﬁes the literature FDR and is only

open to those who have completed
the WRIT 100 requirement.

Like CS1: W&L, another spring
term course in chemistry is geared
toward non-science major students.
Disorder & Chaos, which is taught
by Professor of Chemistry Steven
Desjardins and Professor.of Chem-
istry and Supervisor of Labs Andrea
Abry, has been taught at W&L for
more than 20 years. In that time, en-
rollment has jumped from 15 to 100
students, but since adding the labora-
tory section, the course maintains a
group of about 36 students.

In the course, students use the cha-
os theory and mathematics to predict
future behavior of complicated sys-
tems like the stock market and the
weather, according to Desjardins.

“Everything, physical or social,
changes with time,” said Desjardins.
“If we understand how things change
with time, we can make predictions
about the future. Some things we un-
derstand pretty well, like the trajec-
tory of a baseball. Other things, like
the stock market, are much harder to
understand and predict,” he added.

Disorder & Chaos satisﬁes the sci-
ence laboratory FDR and is open to
all levels. A

Course registration for
spring term begins Jan.
29 for seniors, followed
by first-year students
Jan. 30, juniors Jan. 3]

and sophomores Feb. 1.

Founrs’ Day

Convocation Adjusted  

C'ass5°“°d"'°  

Adjusted  [Ugr)

 

    

Founders’ Day Convocation - Friday, January 18, 2013

Convocation held 11:45am—1:U0pm

V Normal class times
8:0Uam—8:S5am .
8:00am-10f0Oam
8:35am—10:00am
9:05am-10:00am
10:10am-11:05am
11:15am-12:10pm
12:20pm-1:15pm
1:2Spm—2:20pm ‘
1:2Sprn—4:30pm
2:30pm—3:25pm
2:30pm-3:55pm
2:30pm-4:30pm
3:00pm-4:25pm
3:3Spm—4:30prn
4:40pm-5:35pm

Adjusted Class Time
8:00am-8:45am
8:00am-9:40am
8:3Sam—9:25am
8:5Sam—9:4Dam
9:50am-10:35am
1U:4Sam—11:30am

, 1:10pm—1:S5pm

2:05pm-2:50pm
2:OSpm—4:30pni
3:0Opm—3:45pIn
3:00pm-3:50pm
3:00prn—4:4IJpm
3:05pm-3:55pm
3:55pm-4:40pm
4:S0pm—5:35pn1

Laboratories and Studio classes

8:00am? 12:10pm
8:35am-11:40am
1:25pm-4:30pm
1:25pm-5:35prn

8:00am-11:30am
8:35am-11:30am
2:05pm-4:30pm
2:05pm—S:35pm

 

 

 

 
 

Congratulations to everyone
on a snccessfulrecrnitment

tﬁis year!

Jlﬁalta Delta Bi (ﬂID Bi) - 34

Cfti Omega (Clti O) — 34

4335
cm:
"2

Kappa Jiigofia Tfteta (Tﬁeta) - 34

Kappa Kappa gamma (Kappa) — 34

  

Beta Tlteta Bi (Beta) — 18
Cfti :Psi - 6

Kappa ﬂigolia Order (KJZI) — 10
Kappa Sigma (Kappa Sig) - 7
Lamlida Clii Jéllplia (Lambda) — 14
Blii gamma Delta (fiji) — 8

Tlii Delta Tlteta (Bfti Delt) - 28 ,

"‘ The Bat did not hear from Kappa Delta, Tﬁi ‘Psi, or SAB
‘ 7

Bi Kappa ﬂllpfta (BiKJ4l) — 12

A

‘S

  Sororities
Kappa Delta (KD)*

A fraternities
Blti Kappa Psi (Blii Bsi) — 25*

directly Eiy tlie time we went to print

7

Bi Beta Phi (Bi Bfii) - 36

 

Pi Kappa Blii(?i Blii) — 18

Sigma Jilgofta Bpsilon (SﬂB)*
Sigma Clii — 16
Sigma Nu — 1o

Sigma Blii Bpsilon (Sig Bp) — 4

   
  
  
 
  
      
    

    

   

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

pinions

 

Shotty health practices

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

The map below shows the proportion of outpatient visits a health care providers for ﬂu—like illness. It does not

measure the extent of geographic spread of flu within a star

Minimal Low

 

You’ve probably heard the excuses.
People say that they don’t want to get
vaccinated for any number of reasons—
vaccines arenothing but a recurring
source of revenue for pharmaceutical
companies, getting a vaccine one day
will actually make you sick two days
later, people would rather take their
chances of getting the ﬂu than risk one
ofthe vaccine’s side-effects.... Then, of
course, there’s good old laziness. One

 Moderate

I High

way or another, people ﬁnd a way each
year to justify not getting a ﬂu vaccine.

It is no secret that the ﬂu is going
around. This time of year is usually host
to a peak in ﬂu activity.

So stop for a minute and think: how
many hands did you shake last week?
Considering that it was recruitment
week, one of the coziest weeks of the
year~—what with everyone cramming
into sorority and fraternity houses for

For more information. see the CDC's Fen‘-./éevt.-' travzker.

BEE

NJ

DE

hours at a time—the answer is probably
a lot. And of those whose hands you
shook, how many looked a bit...under
the weather? '

Given that last week was a blur of .

late nights, loud singing, and enthusias-
tic cheering, it was easy to chalk up the
fatigue, hoarse voices, and achy muscles
to the price you pay for having a fun time
during recruitment. However, according
to Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Director of the

National Institute of Allergy and Infec-
tious Diseases at the National Institute
of Health, “We are into what would clas-
sically be described as a ﬂu epidemic.”

By this point, 47 states have reported
widespread ﬂu activity. 3,710 hospital-
izations have occurred as a result. Va.
health officials have stated that the last
time the ﬂu attacked the population like
this was nearly a decade ago—it has
reached the “widespread” stage in Va.,
the’ highest of ﬁve levels of ﬂu activity.
The scariest part: according to Fauci,
we’re only 6 weeks into a 12 week ﬂu
cycle.

“I’ve been in infection control 26
years and I’ve never seen it this busy. It
ranks up there with the busiest I’ve ever
seen a ﬂu season,” says Carolyn Palmer,
Infection Prevention Control Coordina-
tor for Augusta Health in Fishersville,
Va. On Saturday, New York State de-
clared a public health emergency, step-
ping on state law in order to allow phar-
macists to administer vaccinations to
anyone between 6 months and I8 years
of age. Massachusetts has experienced
18 ﬂu-related deaths already this sea-
son, and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino

.also declared a public health emergency,

stating last Wednesday that “This is the
worst ﬂu season we’ve seen since 2009,
and people should take the threat of ﬂu
seriously.” Especially since, on average,
25,000 people will die of the ﬂu every
year in the United States.

15 states are reporting extraordinarily
high levels of the ﬂu. Among these are

New York, Utah, Minnesota, Texas, and
Virginia.

And yet people still have avoided
getting vaccinated. Perhaps what they
don’t understand is that choosing to
forego that one little shot is essentially a
selﬁsh move. The ﬂu can be contagious
to anyone standing within six feet of an
infected person—that means that those
who choose to risk getting the ﬂu by
refusing vaccination are putting every-
one with whom they come in contact at
risk, including infants younger than six
months, the elderly, those who‘are aller-
gic to vaccination, and those for whom
the vaccination may simply have not
worked. Especially in the cases of babies
and the elderly, whose immune systems

are not on par with people in their prime, ‘

this sort of selﬁshness on the part of one
person could be fatal.

The CDC advises that everyone 6
months and older should get an annual
ﬂu vaccine.

According to Dr. Thomas A. Farley,
“It’s a bad year. We’ve got lots of ﬂu,
it’s mainly type AH3N2, which tends
to be a little more severe. So we’re see-
ing plenty of cases of ﬂu and plenty of
people sick with ‘ﬂu. Our message for
any people who are listening to this is
it’s still not too late to get your ﬂu shot.”

Flu vaccinations are available to
W&L students at the Student Health
Center. Walk—ins are welcome at any
hour of the day or night, and the charge
of $20 can be swiped home.

Tearin

By Leah Gose
STAFF wmren

“Rush is over!” said the W&L mass-
es. The world can ﬁnally return to nor-
mal- no more awkward “No Contact"
rules. The Speaking Tradition reigns
again. But even ifa week’s worth of or-
ganized social systematizing is over, the
pinnacle pride ofGreek Life is the Satur-
day night after Recruitment Week.

At the conclusion of Recruitment

nup-

Week, the entire campus exhales a
breath of relief. No longer are first-year
students at risk of having petty mistakes
destroy their chances at acceptance in
the Greek System. With the acceptance
of a bid (offer to join a fraternity or so-
rority organization), the Greek world
provides almost immediate protection
from gossip-fueled ostracizing. So with

THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITER

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
HAMLET FORT
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
PAT MCCARRON
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEY RUSSELL
JOSH WHITE

AUBRI CHARNIGO

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING—TUM PHI
to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting
the Washington and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news
affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable. Through
our reporting, we aspire to spark discussions that lead to
discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING~TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a member
of The Media Board, which can be reached at mediaboard@
w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI

welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and advertising do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel
and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
' LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

limited social repercussions left post-
Bid Night, what do you think that leads
to ‘come Saturday?

You guessed right- the entire campus
takes a break from making responsible
decisions. Tear Night is named in part
because the men “tear” up bids they
chose to not take from other fraterni-
ties and celebrate with their new broth-
ers. Sororities share in the festivities
by having “Celebration Parties” with

we

Greekstyle

fraternities. At the same time, I could
also say that Tear Night brings with it
crying, tears, and emotional outbursts
from those who did not have a success-
ful recruitment week (or didn’t have the
experience they truly wanted).

2013’s Tear Night was a hot mess in
part because it was about 55 degrees and
because this campus skimps on noth-
ing- especially not on memorable par-
tying opportunities. The iPhones were

out and Facebook was blowing up with
pictures. The Health Center, well aware
of what happens, had nurses and wheel-
chairs waiting at the door. Lexington
sounded like a giant basement, with
music booming from almost all frater-
nity and off-campus houses. The Divi-
sion of Student Affairs even provided a
“Midnight Breakfast” in Evans Dining
Hall_- a common stop for students that
night and a magical place to people-
watch (many eggs were consumed with-
out the normally necessary fork). Even
with the opportunities for unsafe con-
ditions, our campus takes pride in our
growing ability to make Tear Night safer
and fun. The Student Health Center de-
serves a hug and paid vacation. I’m not
even certain how the employees who
worked the Midnight Breakfast could
stand watching what appeared to be like
the ﬁrst meal of the Donner Party post-
starvation. Speak and’ “l-in-4” provided
stickers (the best!) and cups to remind
students to make responsible decisions.

Were responsible decisions made?
Who knows? But I do know that Tear
Night will stand as a recurring event on
campus until the end of Greek Life. It
may not make the list for “most respon-
sible decision making” night, but like
streaking the Colonnade, it’s something
you have to do once.

That’s so cheap...

By Aubri Charnigo
GUEST WRITER

At the end of last semester, I ﬁnished
my exams, packed up my textbooks into
a big bag and dragged them to the buy-
back table in the Commons. As a senior,
I did not have high expectations of the
fortune I would make selling back my
books, but when I was consistently of-
fered one to two dollars for each book,
I was infuriated. Naturally, I did not
sell them back. Overall I was offered
a total of $13 for ﬁve books originally
purchased for $107.25. For some of my
books, I would only make back 8% of
the original cost, in spite of the fact that
my books were like new.

It is absurd that as students we keep
the book buyback companies in busi-
ness. We have the power to refuse to
accept such low prices and to sell the
books ourselves. If enough students
refused to sell back their textbooks for
such ridiculously low rates, we could
force the companies to buy them back
for more. I’m sure that the book they
wanted to buy from me for $1.25 would

' have been sold used in the bookstore for
over $10. By eliminating middlemen
and selling directly, students can beneﬁt

by determining themselves what their
books are worth. For example, I have
both bought and sold expensive sci-
ence textbooks through advertisements
over Campus Notices, throu ‘the new

    

of th semester. I have even borro d
textb ks from friends who wanted to
keep ‘book for grad school or MC
but di _n’t need it that semester. I
Th§ Facebook Textbook Exchange
is a ﬂood start to organizing a m_re
efﬁci t and fair way to buy and ski]
textb ks. The student body sho Id
conti e to organize and reﬁne a me -
od fo students to buy and sell to e h
other ecause the students on both e s
of these transactions beneﬁt. We are 1-
ready paying thousands of _dollars to o
to school and hundreds of dollars for
textbooks. The least we can do to save

some money and help ourselves and
each other is to not give our business to
the book buyback companies. We de-
serve better than that.

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

   

 

 

 

   

MONDAY, JANUARY 14,2013 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

a rts&| ife
Top ten signs it’s Tear Night

. By Christian Kennedy
STAFF WRITER

 

3. Breaking glass things

1- L05ing eXP‘5“5lVe Clothing v 2 Dancing like a crazed maniac l
  ~ sw>eia— PKA ca L-E

 QLASS‘

   

 

   
   

 

A ' 1:5: FQU\N1>, Rerumxl

'4. Eating obnoxious amounts of breakfast at midnight

is THE NAFFL

    

 

mi

    
   
  
         
   
      
     

The Career Development Center
cordially invites students to an

ETIQUETTE DINNER A

9. Creative interpretations of what a bathroom is

.. 7!!‘
.   -®w£‘%%l{l‘3’-' MW‘ - -~

r‘ g  0
Cartoons by Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

  

Register in person at the
Career Development Center
January 14th-18th A
$15 fee includes dinner and
instructional materials.

i Space is limited. Register early.

Tuesday, January 22, 2013
. 5:30-8:00 p.m.
Sheridan Livery Inn

*Registration now open*

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI-

arts&lif

Byioshvvhne
STAFF WRITER

Winter for the recreational outdoor
enthusiast can be a challenging time
of year. Finding activities to do in the
winter may seem diflicult if you don‘t
like battling the elements, but the fact
is there are many different but equally
enjoyable activities available for the
casual and experienced alike. One op-
tion available year-round is stargazing,
which is exactly what I set out to do this
last Wednesday.

Despite a cloudy day, the skies
cleared up to reveal the beautiful night
sky we are used to here in rural Lexing-
ton. l trekked to a far corner ofcampus
to minimize the impact ofunnatural light
on my view. Regardless of my efforts,
good views were hard won. Fortunately,
there are many places nearby campus
that would provide much better views.

On this very average night. however.
we were able to see the planet Jupiter,
as well as ()rion‘s Belt and the brightest
star in the sky, Sirius, the Dog Star.

Stargazing is an easy and fun way to
spend a night ifyou are looking to get in
touch with Mother Nature: trust me, she
misses you in the winter when you hide
inside too much. lt’s not uncommon to
see a few shooting stars during your trip.
as well.

Jan. ll was the new moon, which is

Star night, star b

the best time to view stars, due to the
minimal light. The next full moon will
be .Ian. 28, so if you are interested in
connecting with your inner werewolf,
that evening would be a good time to go.

The equipment for stargazing is very
minimal. I would recommend bringing
either some blankets or a sleeping bag
so you can lie down comfortably. Either
coffee or hot chocolate would be good
too, as the nights can get cold during this
time ofyear. It wouldn’t be a bad idea to
bring a date either. as stargazing can be
quite romantic. - _

There are also stargazing apps you
can download on your il’hone or il’ad
that use the gyroscope inside the device
to help you tind constellations. planets,
and other neat objects in the sky. So
pack up your stuff and head outside on
the next clear night, and prove that in-
element weather is no excuse to stay in-
doors.

MON DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

right: it’s your tu rn

Stargazing is an easy and fun way to spend a night

ifyou are looking to get in touch with Mother Na-

ture; trust me, she misses you in the winter when you

hide inside too mz./ch.

Heads-up for O-Week

By Caroline Hamp
3 TA F F w R IT E R

Get ready for O-Week 2013! Wait...
already? Yes, you heard correctly. The
First-Year Orientation Committee
(FYOC) is on the tip of their toes, pre-
paring. to dive head first into planning
the events for Orientation Week, com-
ing soon in September 2013.

FYOC is in charge of everything re-
lated to O-Week, from the Adviser Din-
ner to SODALIS to Activities Fairs to
informational meetings; in short, they
create a jam-packed schedule for the
ﬁrst-year’s very first week on campus.

The main goal of O-Week is to facili-
tate a great first experience and impres-
sion of Washington and Lee. Everyone
is aware of the highly-anticipated ex-
citement that is O-Week. It is all fun
and games, thanks to the mid-week start
date for classes. We all have our favor-
ite memories, typically sponsored by
the fratemities and their evening events.
But the fun doesn’t end_therel Plenty of
people consider their favorite memories
to be meeting their University Big or at-
tending the crazy carnival afterwards.

The week also includes a ton of edu-
cational events, aimed to be as exciting,
yet still helpful, as possible. These ﬁve
days are crammed full of informational

meetings and beneﬁcial resources. It is
a time ofleaming and acclimation as the
ﬁrst-years learn what college life will
entail for the next four /years.

FYOC has a lot on its plate in the up-
coming months. The biggest event for
O-Week 2012 was the Casino Night in
Elrod Commons, which featured prizes,
a mini bar, game tables, and incredible
decorations. It was expanded signiﬁ-
cantly from previous years, and grew to
encompass various rooms and areas in
the Commons.

The most recent O-Week also saw
some major changes in the event sched-
ule, primarily with the Off-Campus Per-
spectives Tour
of Lexington,
which featured
stops at various
sights and re-
sources offered
by the school,
as well as the
Big Brother/
Big Sister Car-
nival.

FYOC Gen-
eral Chair Joni
Deutsch ‘l4

 BY.» pi

s,TuDENTsi.AGA1NsT A
."fROCKBRIDGE. AREA  

~ ..fH_UNGER (SARAH)

 {fig-:OOiil_3.M_ — 9:30 PM.
;   FRIDAY,’ JANUARY 25 .

   AT 730

RM.

  i”iTlCK‘ETSAAVAlLABLtl§
EOR $1oiN COMMONS
  7.1/21 91/25, AND AT  

EVENT.  

*IF sTuDENTswOuLD

II I
  I

:15
I  / ,
lag?‘

lﬁlﬂ ‘
‘AIL
RpllII«
llﬁl
lwl
III
II!
II!
m

I5
I Ii
“, I I5
W is’

LIKE To ENTER A TEAM.
CONTACT PERRY GIVEN
AT GlVENS13@l\/IAILWLU.

EDU.

\

intends to pursue the growth of these
events. “We plan on expanding the Off-
Campus Tour and the Carnival by mak-
ing them bigger and attracting more
people,” explained Deutsch. She hopes
that they will be fun for both ﬁrst-years
and upperclassmen alike.

FYOC also collected feedback from
members of the Class of 2016 after this
previous O-Week, in hopes of mak-
ing changes and improvements. Said
Deutsch, “We are excited to invite in
a new class with events they will be
stoked for!”

Want to help make O-Week 2013 the
best yet? Well, now you can! FYOC is releasing
applications to join the Committee this week,
and they will be due at the end of January.
Questions and concerns should be directed to Joni
Deutsch '14 at deutschj14@mail.wlu.edu, or Dean
Rodocker at jrodocker@w|u.edu.

I Ifjllglnlulnu
l,5J!.t!-E lllilllll
  ﬂung-rsunnnu.

.1311:
m.“umn,,
ml.‘~:y*
Ilun-

”WIIIllll
ﬂlllll
IIIIIII
JIIIIE
IIIIIE

‘lﬂlll
.llll
nuns,

._..§.>.._»

Take a spin with Katie Gahan:
instructor gives exercise a twist

By Lindsey Burke '
STA FF WRITER

At a typical spin class with instructor
Katie Gahan, students never experience
a dull moment. With high intensity and
loud music, this class is full of energy.

“I always ask for music suggestions or
new moves they would like to try,” said
Gahan. “It works out great because I love
trying new music, and I want to be sure
the participants are getting the workout
that they want and hearing the music that
they want.”

This Southern Virginia University
graduate became “addicted” to cycling
after she found classes to be her perfect
stress release. Since then, she has been
leading group exercise at Washington
and Lee for the past two years. Now, she
teaches Cycling, Core, Sports Circuit,
and Body Attack classes.

According to Gahan, Body Attack is
a high cardio class that combines endur-
ance and strength. Sports Circuit mixes
cardio with weight training, and Core fo-
cuses on increasing core strength. How-
ever, for Gahan, spinning has remained
her favorite.

“Cycling is a fast paced indoor cycling
class full of great music, and I try to do
moves that are outside of just road biking
to keep people engaged and having fun,”

X-D‘?

said Gahan. “It comes really naturally
to me and I don’t have to think about it
while I am teaching.”

As one of the school’s younger in-
structors, Gahan feels like she can con-
nect with students with her music and
energy. She makes it a personal goal to
keep her students excited with motiva-
tional tools. With her use of loud, upbeat
music and her motivational references to
delicious foods throughout the workout,
her classes never involve just “sitting on
a stationary bike.”

“When you get to envision cheese-
cake, shoes, bread sticks or Brad Pitt at
the [top of the hill], it makes it a little
easier,” she said.

Gahan’s students are just as enthusias-
tic about her spin classes as she is about
teaching them. “During the treacherous
last 20 minutes of spin class, I am usu-
ally dying, but Katie is so positive and
encouraging,” said senior Kerry Cotter.
“I always get a fantastic wokout from her
class!"

Katie Gahan teaches spin on Tuesday
and Thursday evenings, and Sports Cir-
cuit classes Thursday evenings.

r.\n 1

Ltpl11.~L
llllllll

  

5 C

 

 

 

M o N DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

    

sports

Men’s XC Coach John Tucker retiring  

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

It seems that nothing can keep men’s
cross country coach John Tucker away‘
from what he loves—not even retire-
ment.

Washington and Lee’s athletic depart-
ment announced the retirement of Coach
Tucker late last year. it will be executed
in the form of a phased retirement, with
Coach Tucker remaining at_ W&L for
up to an additional four years teaching
physical education.

“What a privilege it has been these
past 24 years, working with such out-
standing students, athletes and col-
leagues in such a beautiful place,” said
Tucker. “it truly has been the best years
of my life.”

Although he has relieved himself
of coaching duties, Coach Tucker still
hopes to keep his connection alive with
the University.

Coach Tucker’s hopeto maintain his
connection to W&L resembles his yearn-
ing to continue his success in track and
ﬁeld, long after his collegiate career.

As a track athlete at W&L, Coach
Tucker earned many accolades: as a
four-year track letterrnan and a two-
year captain, Coach Tucker led two of
his teams to ODAC championships and
school-record setting relay teams in
1976 and 1977. It was also during these
years that he was awarded the Forest
Fletcher Trophy for overall excellence
and sportsmanship his last two years.

Coach Tucker, however, would not
hang up his spikes just yet. He remained

an active participant in various track and
ﬁeld competitions until age 50, winning
local, state and regional competitions.
Some of Coach Tucker’s most crown-
ing achievements occurred at the USA
Track & Field national competitions,
where he has won All—American honors
in ﬁve events. Coach Tucker took home
pentathlon gold in 2000 when competing
in the 50-54 age group at the USA Track
and Field National Championships.

Coach Tucker’s 24-year reign as
men’s cross country head coach has
brought the team great success. W&L
has won league championships in cross-
country in seven of these years, includ-
ing four straight titles from 2004-2007.
Coach Tucker won NCAA South Region
Coach of the Year in 1995 for bringing
W&L’s cross-country team to the NCAA
Division lll championships, and has
won ODAC coach of the year honors six
times.

it seems that Coach Tucker’s phased
retirement is appropriate. After all, he
never really retired from being an ath-

lete, and with physical education teach- A

ing in his future, Coach Tucker will also
be slow to relinquish active ties with
W&L.

While it was his athletic ability and
love for the sport that kept Coach Tucker
on the track for so many years, it is his
love for W&L that will keep him here for
at least a few more years, even after his
announced retirement.

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s swim

Bridgewater by a score of 115-84.

team won their home meet on Saturday against

The Generals had six ﬁrst place ﬁnishes, two
by junior Lauren Kasoff. Kasoff ﬁnished ﬁrst in
the 200-yard freestyle with a time of2:01 .65 and
the 100-yard backstroke, ﬁnishing in 1:03.37.

Other ﬁrst place winners were senior Colleen .
Moore in the l,000~yard freestyle, senior Izzy 
Brassﬁeld in the 50-yard freestyle, and ﬁrst-year
Meredith Murphy in the 200 yard individual .
medley. The 400-yard medley team consisting l7
of ﬁrst-years Stephanie Foster and Sara Schaffer,
sophomore Caroline Hamp and Brassﬁeld also

came in ﬁrst with a time of4: 12.56.

_ Sophomore Sydney Gay, Hamp, and ﬁrst-
year Emma Swabb also had strong individual
performances with several of the second place

ﬁnishes of the day.

The men’s and women’s teams will return to
the pool on Saturday when they will be taking on

Marymount and Catholic at home.

 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  

   

    eralmi the pool

 

..  V X.

 

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF warren

in its inaugural year, the Men’s Vol-
leyball Club has made quite an entrance
into Washington and Lee sports. With
goals of fostering camaraderie, exposing
the game to all skill levels and excelling
in a competitive conference, “the MVC is
surpassing others’ and my own expecta-
tions”, said Andrew McCaffery, creator
and President ofthe club.

First-year McCaffery explained that
while the MVC is a member of the Na-
tional Collegiate Volleyball Federation, it
participates in the Division ll-South re-
gion of the Eastern lntercollegiate Volley-
ball Association. The MVC has already
faced a number of league competitors
in pre-season scrimmages including the
University of Virginia and Virginia Tech.
The president noted how driven he and
the team is to gain experience from more
established programs. The team now
looks forward to their ﬁrst matches of the
regular season at the Eastern Carolina In-
vitation Tournament in early February.

While the MVC is rather competitive,
McCaffery sought to bring volleyball as
an enjoyable extracurricular to the men
of W&L. Since he established the club
through development plans and meetings
with coaches and athletic directors, the

Promising start for Men’ Vlciall 

entirely student-run program has yielded
a lot of interest. The team consists of
roughly twenty-ﬁve students of all skill-
levels. A council of ﬁve players handles
everything from their budget to recruit-
ment. McCaffery commented that this
varied membership “allows for mutual
coaching and improvement and presents
students with opportunities in peer-lead-
ership and running a business.” Not only
do participants hone their digging, setting
and spiking skills—or practice them for
the ﬁrst time— but the club also gives
men a chance to lead and encourage their
teammates. Anyone interested in joining
the club should contact MVC ofﬁcer Jack
Melhom at melhomj 1 6@mai1.wlu.edu.

(let Unlc

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

ashcd at BLB‘...

lac-xin,<_-;ton’s ()nI_\' ;‘Ii(‘l'l)l)l‘(‘\\'(‘l’)'!

 

  

Noing
Pints & Cask Ale

Bring the Folks this Weekend
2 year Anniversary Party: Nov. 30 & Dec. 1

l3rc“'cry and 'I‘ap lhunn
123 S. Randolph St, Lexington, VA
540—4S8—0 1 46
Tap Room Hours:
Wed 4:30—7 p.m.
Fri 3:00-7:30 p.m.
Sat 2-5 p.m.

and as needed... check our website...
www.b|uelabbrewing.com
facebook: Blue Lab Brewing Co., LLC

 

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI - MONDAY,.lANUARY 14,2013

 

S P 0 rts

in the numbers   Men’s Bballfalls short in OT at EMU  

The Generals forced overtime after com-
ing back from a 12-point deﬁcit with 7:10 left
in the game, but fell 91-84 to Eastern Men-
nonite on Wednesday night.

EMU held a 59-47 lead with 7:10 left, but
Washington and Lee used a 7-0 run including
a three-pointer from ﬁrst-year forward An-
drew Franz to reduce the lead to 59-54 with
5:47 remaining in the game.

The Royals fought back and pushed their
7 0 lead back to seven points at the 3:13 mark, but

The total number of W&L student-athletes that earned
scholar-athlete awards for the fall semester. The student-
athletes need a grade-point average of at least 3.50 to earn

« the award.

the Generals used a 5-0 run to make it a 67-
65 game with 2:28 left in regulation. Junior
forward Drew Kimberly hit a free throw and
ﬁrst-year guard Darren Douglas was fouled
on a three-point attempt following a Royal
turnover. Douglas hit one of the foul shots,
and Franz drilled a three-point shot to make it
a two-point game.

EMU went back up ﬁve points, but senior
guard Kelton Buchanan canned a three-point-
er with eight seconds left to send the game
into overtime. The Royals started with an 8-2
run capped by a dunk from their senior for-
ward.

I Kimberly led W&L with a career-high

20 points on 7-of-ll shooting from the ﬁoor
4 8 and 6—of-8 from the foul line. Junior guard
, Kevin Gill scored 14 points, while Franz got
1 1 points, six rebounds and three assists. Bu-
chanan tallied eight points, ﬁve rebounds and
ﬁve assists, and senior forward J.D. Ey added
eight points, seven rebounds, four assists, two
steals and two blocks.

a the

Dec. 19 ‘ vs. Bates @, Dayl:ona.Beach, Fla. _ 7

The number of yards of the completed hail mary from Bal-

-timore Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco to receiver Jacoby

Jones with just 31 seconds" left in regulation on Saturday.
The play forced the game with the Denver Broncos into over-
time. The Ravens won in double overtime on a 47-yard field

goal by Justin Tucker.

 

The total number of games each National Hockey League

team will play in a shortened season starting Saturday. A

seven day training camp began Sunday and the playoffs will

begin on” April 30. The lockout lasted for 113 days.

     

‘ 

Baytona Beach Shootout . 5 ‘

Dec. 21 5 vs. Mar‘/mount (Va.) @ Daytona Beach, Fla. 5 I ' G 7 w, 70-57 Final

 

 Daytona Beach Shootout
T M L Kenyon T 4’ . _ A . i , . - ._ »  W, 59-53
11:3;/p/ékgp//:335bf;:1tfni;r§;§;}t;l to  3 r.’§‘$3:::?.“;f.“:   2          .
   b. Jan. 5/ I  ‘ l i _ .,  68,67 > Final
—San Francisco 49ers uarterback Colln - V - ’ -' S ’ g - . ‘ ' 9 ' if
K38 (11. In a  gargeenon . (Courtesy of Generals Sports)
urday. Kaepemlck passed for 263 ’ ‘ ‘

yards and two touchdowns on his own
whlle rushln for a quarterback-record 181

yards. From PN.oom ViCk leads the Genﬂrs   . l

  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

By Bailey Russell .  V '
STAFF WRITER V 
"/ W0’ [Win ire)/J '50 £0 Wh9F€V€F .....E’Z.Z§i.‘i:Z’E1225Z§l’.fle§‘§f1l‘§7V7§2h.§315
    Wer  The Eastern Mennonite University lead contin-

ued to 14 points before the Generals closed the

questions directly, honestly and ?3f:2i"‘rLf;“;:‘ei‘;‘:§;‘:‘;flg]:"t::::kf° make “a

 
  

         

Candid/y_ That’s a][ [ Can Say_ ” . EM‘U'scor.ed theﬁrst six points after the -V ; 
intermission, increasingtheir lead to 39-23 en E 5.

_|_anQe Nmgtmng |n a text to the route to defeating W&L 69-43. A 

Associated Press on Saturday. There are Flrétﬁr tgnvtard Wfsfggl Vd'°'<b'fd £26

reports   n  be  f\::)at>C/l'l:(1l a czfeerﬂshicleireltfl religuneds (aliidetied : .
to  a  ofme oplng scandal In an career—high with l0gpoints. First-year forward A

 wlth  wlnfrey  Thursday‘ Shelbi Hendricks scored nine points on 4-of-5 4‘ I G

shooting from the floor, while sophomore guard ,3,
Annie Guaf and ﬁrst-year guard Paige Corvino ‘‘ "
each scored eight points.

“There’s always satisfaction in '

denying Michigan the No. 1 spot REAR

in the COUWFY-" Dec. 16 Southside Virginia c.c. w, 72-15 Final

— Ohlo State Buckeye Evan Ravenel after .
defeating Mlchlgan 56-53 on Sunday. ' '
The Wolverines ranked #2 In the country, ‘Di 1 _ 29 A 5 _ ‘ A T 1 ‘ . . ‘W’ 49.25 i:- I

were the last undefeated team in Dlvlslon l n 3‘ °‘”a"e°   e T ' T y   i e A ‘"3

basketball. Number 1 ranked Duke lost on T 4

Saturday.

Jan. 3 at Emory St Henry * W, 60-49 Final
Jan. 5 Lynchburg *7 7» _ : 4 H 2   B S L, 60-501 a Final   Q
ondeck 2 5 n -     .
Men’s Basketball atE&H7pm vs.Roanoke7pm _ V5-GU“f°ld2Pm
Women's Basketball v5_Rando|ph7pm 3tShenand°ah2pm
Women’s Swimming vsMarymount1pm
vs Catholic 1 pm
Men’s Swimming vsMarymount1pm
vs Catholic 1 pm
at McDaniel 11 am .

Wrestling ’

   

 

l
'.
i
.
l.
;.

 

 

A o
:(_~z,.75S

V.

e57.
Illa

h

0--

‘? .0" ‘ii’   ‘ll‘*at»ﬁsh1($/érb)

, . « SPORTS/pagel9‘

acpamdwei horizons '

Six Generals share their abroad
experiences and beststories.

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2 0 13

ODK celebrates

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

 
  
   

t

On Founders’ Day last Friday in Lee
Chapel, 24 Washington and Lee juniors
and seniors, seven Law School students
and four honorary initiates were in-
ducted, or “tapped,” into Omicron Delta
Kappa (ODK), the national leadership
honor society founded here at W&L in
l9l4.

Dr. Andrew H. Delbanco, Director of
American Studies and Julian Clarence
Levi Professor in the Humanities at Co-
lumbia University, spoke at the event. ’

Author of the 2012 book “College:
What It Was, Is and Should Be,” Delban-
co presented a speech entitled, “What is
College For?”

In light of the mass media’s recent
characterization of college as a bad in-
vestment, Delbanco endorsed college as
a venue for maturity, diversity, argument
and, most importantly, change.

College is a place where young adults
should “take time for reflection, self-dis-
covery, contemplation," Delbanco said.

“We want to be a society where you
aren’t told who you are, and are not con-
strained by the circumstances of your
birth; that you have something to say
about who you will be in the world,” said

   WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY - -  - 

° THE RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVll,NUMBER12

Delbanco.

College is also a place of diversity
of not only gender and race, but also of
thought and character. in addition to
learning “vertically” from professors,
students can learn “horizontally” from
their peers, said Delbanco.

Third, Delbanco said. collegians
ought to learn how to engage one an-
other in rational, yet civil discourse, all
the while listening with discernment
and tolerance. “The college classroom,”
Delbanco said, “is the best rehearsal
place for democracy that we have yet
invented.”

Lastly, college should never lose its
ability to change one‘s mind. “Most of
all,” said Delbanco, “the classroom is a
place where you can walk into the room
with one point of view and walk out with
another, or at least with some productive
doubt of what you were sure of when
you walked in.”

If this can be said of any college, it
can be said of W&L, according to Del-
banco. At W&L, “there is an incendiary
capacity in every teacher and a ﬂamma-
bility in every student,” Delbanco said.

It is this ﬂammability to which stu-

ATHENA CAO) photographer

§-u I\>M:.u¢.v.xu .
, l
: ' I

dents strive, yet must always try to at-
tain. (

“It doesn’t matter what the subject
is. Sometimes the sparks will ﬂy and the
students will catch ﬁre,” Delbanco said.
“Other times it’s like you’re pouring wa-
ter down the proverbial well or talking

into the void. it’s as if there is a third
force in the room that makes the decision
about whether the student will catch ﬁre
or not. it’s a mystery.”

Delbanco’s speech was followed by
remarks from Wayde Marsh ’l3, Presi-
dent of the ODK Alpha Circle, and the
Tapping oflnitiates.

Founders’ Day occurs annually on
the birthday of Robert E. Lee, W&L’s
President from 1865 to 1870. ODK rec-
ognizes achievement in scholarship, ath-
letics, campus or community service, so-
cial and religious activities and campus
government, journalism, speech and the
mass media and creative and performing
arts.

The ODK honorary inductees are
Loranne Ausley. of Tallahassee, Fla.,
James J. Livesay of Houston and Mark
H. Grunewald and Pamela K. Luecke of
Lexington.

personal learning

CLASS OF 2013

Kendré Simone Barnes (Omaha, Neb.); Alicia
Owen Bishop (Jacksonville. Fla. ); Megan Elizabeth
Bock (Holnidel, ,N.J.).' Samuel Lee Brett (Raleigh.
N. C. ): Elizabetl1_Rebeeea Engel (Lexington. Ky.):
Kerriann Elise Laz/bae/2 (lW(’ll’l1II‘/‘((_).', Pa): Andrew
Clzanning Martin (Midlotliian. Va.).' Brett L. A/lurray
(Lookout Mountain, Tenn.).' Nathaniel Wilson
Reisinger (Urbana, Ohio): Betlianj‘ Anne Revnola's
(Timonizim, Mcl.),' Eric Robert Rosato (Cortland.
N. Y): Kelly Mae Ross (Endieott. N. Y); Emily S/in
(San Jose, Cali_'f.'),' Kathr_)'n DeArmon Stewart
(Charlotte, N. C. )5 Robert Grifﬁn Vestal (Memphis.
Tenn. ): and Isaac Daniel Webb (Portland. Maine).

( ‘LASS 01*‘ 201 -1

Emilia Rose DiGiovanni (Franklin. Tenn. ).' Nicole
Samara Gzinawansa (Portsmouth, -Va.): Morgan
Elizabeth Luttig (Lake Forest, _[ll.); Annelise A.
Madison (Roea, Neb.).' Eric M. Shaman (Black
Mountain. N. C . ); Jake Elijah Strz/ebing (Amherst,
N. Y.): Alvin George Thomas (Sko/tie. Ill);
and - Victoria Hart Van Natten (Towson, Mil).

limv (?L.»\ss 014‘ 201:;

LutlierR. Aslzwortli ll (Meelianiesville. Va. ): Douglas L.
Dzia (Morris Plains, N../.).' Kyle R. Hos/ner (Brighton.
C0l_o._); Alexander‘ M. S1./gzda (Old Greenwich,
Conn); and Alan James Waiger (Buena Vista. Va. ).

LAW’ CLASS OF 201-}
Joseph Tyler Black (Orinda, Calif ) and Thomas L.

Short (Lexington, Va.).

Pre-meds go international

By Krysta Huber
STA FF WRITER

Several Washington and Lee students
returned to campus after studying abroad
in Scotland during the fall term. Applica-
tions are already being accepted for next
year’s fall term abroad program at St.
Andrews.

Although the program is open to non-
science majors, the partnership between
W&L and St. Andrews was created with
W&L students interested in the sciences
and health professions in mind. It is one
of the few study abroad programs in
which pre-med students can participate.

According to wlu.edu, pre-med stu-
dents are able to participate in a special
seminar taught by a member of the St.
Andrews Medical Faculty. The seminar
includes visits to hospitals and clinics in
the area. ,

The partnership allows students on
the science and pre-med tracks to receive
a grade toward their W&L transcripts in
the classes that they take abroad. How-
ever, non-science courses only receive
course credit and grades are not included
on a student’s W&L transcript.

Many science majors and pre-med
students choose this study abroad op-
tion, but understand that it comes with a
price. According to junior Kelsey With-
erspoon, the St. Andrews program is
quite demanding academically.

“You have to sacriﬁce a lot of the
experiences that other study abroad stu-
dents have,” said Witherspoon. “You are
not having the same abroad experience
as your friends who are in other pro-
grams because the emphasis ofthis pro-
gram is on the study.”

Other participants echoed With-
erspoon’s sentiment in terms of their
academic experiences at St. Andrews.
Sophomore Katie Price and Junior Da-
vid Hsu said that the course design was

much more independent at St. Andrews,
with very few or no assessments before
the ﬁnal exam.

“The biggest challenge academically
was being disciplined with yourself to
study the material even though there
were no assessments until ﬁnal exams,”
said Hsu. “In the European academic
system, it isn’t uncommon for the ﬁnal
exam to be worth 60 or 70 percent ofthe
entire class.”

Sophomore Jordan Edgren also said
that she felt the courses at St. Andrews
required a lot more independent learning
and that the ﬁnal exam strongly indicat-
ed your overall grade in the course.

However, Edgren said that such a
class structure did not apply to the or-
ganic‘ chemistry class she took. The or-

. ganic chemistry course was essentially a

W&L class in a different setting.

“Organic chemistry was structured
more like a W&L class in that only W&L
students were enrolled and we were
taught by one professor for the entire
term,” Edgren said.

Edgren added that her other courses
frequently changed professors — some-
times with ‘a different professor for ev-
ery lecture - so that students were taught
by someone who specialized in a given
topic.

Although students found themselves
busy with school, they did have time to
get involved in extracurricular activities
at St. Andrews and travel to other parts
of Europe.

Hsu said that his favorite experience
was the club sports program on the St.
Andrews campus. Because St. Andrews
is relatively larger than W&L, Hsu said
that there were many different sport op-
tions available at all levels of competi-
tion.

  
   

Price said that her favorite memory
of studying abroad was the traveling
she did all over Europe. Following their
organic chemistry midterm, a group of
students spent the weekend in Paris. “It
was probably one of the best trips of my
life,” she said.

free time studying in Europe.

Every student who chose this option
strongly encouraged it for pre-med stu-
dents wishing to travel abroad.

Hsu said, “I highly recommend this
program as a last chance to see the rest
of the world before spending the next de-
cade of your life in medical school and

&L students Ellie Stoops, Hannah Crowder, Katie Price and helle Ponder visit Paris during thei

residency.”

Applications including a $50 non-
refundable application fee for Fall 2013
are due no later than Feb. 15 to The Cen-
ter for International Education.

photo courtesy of Katie Price

”A&'L / page 6

 

   

.. ‘-JERSSTY
"flirt 

 

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

JAN 2 4 2013

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

 

Rememberin

By Mark Gensburg
GUEST wn ITER

Civil rights "legend Martin Luther
King Jr., in the midst of one of his tough-
est protest campaigns, almost came to
give a speech at the very place where
Robert E. Lee is buried, Washington &
Lee University.

In 1961, Associate Professor of The-
ology Dr. Lou Hodges took two vans full
of students over the Blue Ridge Moun-
tains to Lynchburg to watch a speech of
Martin Luther King Jr. Not long after
that, these students asked King to lead a
seminar on Christian ideals at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Yet the University Christian Associa-
tion (UCA), which was in charge of the
seminar and of which Hodges was the
faculty advisor, decided on a 7-2 deci-
sion to ﬁrst seek the formal approval of
the Board of Trustees to invite King.

Much to the dismay of Hodges and
the UCA, the Board of Trustees denied
the group permission to invite him.
With no justiﬁcation for its decision, the
board quickly came under ﬁre from both
the faculty and students alike. And Dr.
Hodges led the charge.

Quoted in the Oct. 20, 1961 issue of
the Ring-tum Phi, Hodges said, “The
board gave us an answer, but no excuse.”

Soon a ﬁrestonn of contempt aimed
at the Board» of Trustees swept across
‘campus. The decision was decried in ﬁve
different issues of the Ring-tum Phi and
in a survey presented on Oct. 27, 1961,
no student on campus could be found
who supported the board’s apparently
arbitrary decision.

The controversy spread and was
headline news in local papers as far
away as Nova Scotia. Closer to home,
it was publicized in the Roanoke Times
and Virginia Inquirer.

The school and its reputation, it
seemed, was being dragged through the
mud. Critics from inside and out called
the decision to prevent Dr. King from
speaking as a decision to restrict the
students’ “freedom of inquiry.” Many
charged that the board was politicizing
the students’ education and the Ring-tum
Phi cried that the decision violated the
students’ “liberty of mind.”

It was at this point that Hodges was
summoned to speak privately with Fred

g a fight for free speech

Cole, President of the University.

“Well this will be the dismissal of
me,” Hodges recalled in a recent inter-
view. “I had only been on for one year. I
thought that I would be ﬁred.”

Hodges was not ﬁred. In fact, he
went ‘on to get tenure and teach at W&L
for another four decades. He pioneered
W&L’s ethics-in-the-professions series,
which spawned the journalism ethics
chair that he held until retiring 10 years
ago. He came to be known nationally as
one of the pioneers of journalism ethics
education. ,

President Cole was not even upset
with the controversy the King invitation
had caused, said Hodges, who turns 80
this month.

“Invitations of speakers should never
need to go to the Board of Trustees,”
Hodges recalled President Cole saying.

“A new rule was created which dealt
with the board and got it ﬁxed that the
board would never again do what they
did to me.” I

p Eventually the controversy faded and
life on campus returned to normal. Yet,
Professor Hodges remained in contact
with Dr. King. He said he even received
a letter from King from the Birmingham
jail in 1963 — not the famous one King
wrote from that jail cell to moderate
white Birmingham ministers, criticizing
them for seeking patience from protest-
ers.

While the decision to prevent King
from speaking was never reversed, the
conﬂict resulted in the availability of
two new theology majors and a slew of
expanded freedoms for the Department
of Religious Studies.

Although the Board of Trustees nev-
er released a reason for their decision,
Hodges suspects that it was based in ra-
cial prejudices.

“The group seemed to think ‘Negro’
speakers were inferior to white people,”
he said.

That is only his hypothesis. But this is
a fact he could utter with a smile on his
face: “Now faculty can invite whomever
they want.”

Lee-Jackson D

By Yejean Kim 7 .
STA F F w R I T E R

This past weekend, Lee-Jackson Day
was held by The Stonewall Brigade
Camp, Lexington’s branch of the Sons
of Confederate Veterans. A celebration
of both Robert E. Lee and Thomas J.
“Stonewall” Jackson, the day was dedi-
cated to honoring both ﬁgures’ military
feats as well as their characters.

This year’s Lee-Jackson day will see
the continuation of a controversy that
emerged in 2011, when Washington and
Lee’s Associate Professor of Russian

’ ATHENA”CAO'/iiliotrographer
\ \_ ‘ ,. , \

.2» ._‘

1

Anna Brodsky began to question the
traditional ﬂying of Confederacy-related
ﬂags for the holiday in Lexington. A pe-
tition protesting the ﬂags, bearing about
350 signatures of students and staff from
W&L, made its way to city council. The
petition’s front page, which was read to
city council by Professor Brodsky, stated
“For many of us, the Confederate ﬂag
symbolizes slavery, civil hatred, vio-
lence and state disunity.”

A ban on ﬂying any ﬂags but the

‘s

 

American ﬂag, the state ﬂag and a mu-
nicipal ﬂag was decreed by City Council
as a result ofthe petition, drawing the ire
of the holiday’s ardent supporters.
Brandon Dorsey, commander of
The Stonewall Brigade Camp, said that
“those who are most vehemently against
the ﬂags in Lexington are older, aﬂluent,
liberal, white people who have bought
into the notion that they are somehow
guilty of society’s ills and therefore must
discredit their family associations with

ay flags a tra

that past in order to cure past wrongs.”

This year, opposition to the decree
continued as ﬂag supporters protested
the ﬂag ban. F irst-year student and North
Carolina native Nicole Kasica, who wit-
nessed several protestors bearing Con-
federate and Confederacy-related ﬂags
downtown, said that “today the ﬂag sym-
bolizes Southern pride more than any-
thing else, but since it still has a negative
connotation, I definitely think there’s a
better way to express that pride.”

iti O D

However, the historical signiﬁcance
of ﬂying the ﬂags was also defended by
Dorsey.

“Flags are power icons of symbolism
and identity and most nearly everyone
would immediately associate the ﬂags
with the holiday, Lee and Jackson,” said
Dorsey. “Their purpose was to promote
the holiday in the same manner covering

an area with U.S. ﬂags does during the
4th ofJuly celebrations.”

 

  

 VAu

  

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

By Andrea Owen
STAF F WRITER
Stepping onto Traveller, many
Washington and Lee students may not
realize that they could be saving the
cost of an ignition interlock device.
Virginia’s»new DUI law, effective
last July, requires that ﬁrst-time DUI
offenders install this device that pro-
hibits them from operating their vehicle
if their BAC is over the legal limit4.08
percent for those 21 and over and .02
percent for those under 21. The device
will be installed for a minimum of=six
months and must be paid for entirely by
the offender.
However, in addition to the even

‘more serious threats of drunk driving,

driving under the inﬂuence could now
incur ﬁnes of over $200 for installa-
tion and $100 of monthly rental—not
including maintenance costs——as well
as the hassle of constantly needing to
blow into the device.

“This new law was designed to be
strict, in order to discourage people
from becoming repeat offenders,” said
DontBlowItVA.com, a website spon-
sored by Mothers Against Drunk Driv-
ing (MADD).

“I don’t think they are [aware of the
law],” said Officer Ron Condry of the
Lexington Police Department in re-
gards to W&L students. He explained,
however, that because W&L students
are smart in using Traveller and sober
drivers, the law might not have the
largest effect on them.

“I don’t think it’s going to have as
big of an effect on the student body
as it will for the local popula-

tion,” Condry said. He explained,
though, that because Lexington bars
are a gathering place for people in sur-
rounding areas, drunk driving is an is-
sue for the community.

With the success that ignition inter-
lock devices have had in other states,
the effects that the new laws may have
in Virginia might create a safer envi-
ronment for students. According to

pdates DUI law

Even if drunk driving is not a large
issue on the W&L campus, it still ex-
ists, said Michael Young, Director of
W&L’s Public Safety Department.

“Drunk driving is still an issue,”
said Young. “It’s always going to be an
issue as long as we have vehicles and
people who drink.” Young said that
approximately 15 W&L students get
charged with DUls every year.

“Drunk driving is still an issue, ” said Young. “Its

always going to be an issue as long as we have ve-

hicles and people whodrink. ”
MICHAEL YOUNG, W&L Director of Public safeg

MADD, other states that adopted the
interlock device laws saw a 52 per-
cent decrease in alcohol-related deaths.
Studies “show that interlocks reduce
repeat drunk driving offenses by an
average of 67 percent,” according to
MADD,

Considering that one in three people
will be involvedin an alcohol-related
crash in their lifetime, these new laws
might have positive outcomes for the
Lexington communit .

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

The campus was abuzz with anticipa- l
’tion on Tuesday with the impending visit

of former Congressman and Presidential
nominee Ron Paul.

The monumental stop was the ﬁrst
for Paul on the beginning of his speak-
ing tour after his recent retirement from
politics. Paul spoke at LeevChapel after
his agent reached out to the W&L Con-
tact Committee about being the ﬁrst stop
on his tour. .

Paul has served many years in Con-
gress, beginning his career as a politician
in 1976 as the Republican representa-
tive from Texas’s 22nd District, when
he won a special election to replace a
former Congressman. He was defeated
in 1977, but ran again in 1979 and won
the seat back. He maintained his position
until 1984 when he stepped down and
decided to run for the U.S. Senate.

After Paul lost in his ﬁrst run for Sen-
ate, he stepped away from politics for a
few years. He reemerged into the politi-
cal scene in 1987 when he resigned from
the Republican Party and joined the little
known Libertarian Party in order to run
for President under his new affiliation.

Paul finished third in the popular vote
in the 1988 election with over 400,000
votes and brought national attentionto
the up-and-coming party. He decided
not to run in 1992, and instead endorsed
Republican Pat Buchanan. Paul stayed
away from the political scene until 1996
when he ran for Congress yet again, and
won in a difficult campaign.

Paul held this office until this year
when he retired from law making. Dur-
ing his tenure in his last stint in Congress
he ran for president in both 2008 and
2012 in the Republican Party primaries,
but he was not able to grab enough states
to gamer a nomination.

Greeted with a standing ovation in
Lee Chapel, Paul spoke mainly about
the current state of the American gov-
ernment, almost exclusively about the
troubles that are facing our policy mak-

ers today.

True to his nature, Paul focused
mainly on the aspect of law makers
that everyone seems to be criticizing:
the amount of truth they are telling. In
speciﬁc he said, “We need to bring the
Honor Code to Washington!”

ility is to not let poli-

ticians getaway with lying to us,” said
Paul. “This was followed by a criticism
of the job that we have done thus far. We
have politicians that continually lie to us,
and bend the truth, yet we continue to re-
elect them,” said Paul.

Along with the idea of receiving truth

“I think the penalties are as strict as
they should be,” said Young in speak-
ing about safety.

Condry told of a time when he had
to inform a young man’s parents that
their son had died in a drunk driving
accident. The boy had been a long-time
classmate of his daughter.

“l’ve had to do that,” he said. “I
don’t want to do that at all.”

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

The end of 20 1 2 did not mark the end
of the crisis in Mali over territory and
governmental power. The slow collapse
of state control that has occurred over the
last few years culminated in March 2012
with a military coup that ended a twenty-
year democratic rule.

Denis Kennedy, a Visiting Professor
of Global Politics at Washington and
Lee, said, “One of the true tragedies
is that, prior to the crisis, Mali was an
established democracy, one reasonably
well-regarded by human rights NGOS
for its press and political freedoms.”

The end of democracy in Mali is
proof of the incredibly uncertain times
that the state is currently operating in and
has been dealing with for the last year.
Despite the recent attention in the inter-
national scene, the tensions have been
brewing for quite some time.

Kennedy said, “The rebellion in the

north began as a Tuareg rebellion in Jan. '

2012; this is the latest in a series of rebel-
lions dating back to the colonial period.”

This rebellion was different than
those in the past because it was assisted
by other factors. According to Kennedy
there is no monocausal explanation.
BBC reports stated that the Tuaregs, a
nomadic tribe in the north of Mali, be-
gan an insurgency over land and culture
rights in the 1990s. Dubbed the National
Movement for the Liberation of Azawad
(MNLA), the Tuareg nationalists con-
tinue to seek independence for the north
of Mali.

The MNLA rebellion was aided in its
efforts during the 201 1 Libyan Civil War.
“What makes this rebellion different was
the inﬂux of armed and trained Tuaregs
who had served on the side of Gaddaﬁ
in the Libyan Civil War,” Kennedy said.
“This is the precipitating factor.”

The nationalist rebellion occurred
in conjunction with the rebellion of the
Islamist group, Ansar Dine. Ansar Dine

joined the Tuareg forces and is controlled

by a Tuareg rebel leader. According to
BBC, its goal is to impose Islamic law
across Mali. Ansar Dine is also linked
with al-Qaeda.

The addition of systemic factors,
such as colonial legacies and underde-
velopment, and internal factors, such as
unpopular leadership in the’ capital of
Bamako, only increased unrest.

Kennedy explained the timeline of
rebel control in Mali aﬁer the coup in
March. “By April, these groups con-
trolled the north; by June, the MNLA-
Ansar Dine alliance had fallen apart, and
by July Ansar Dine had taken control of
northern Mali,” said Kennedy.

Ansar Dine’s control of the northern
area of Mali has led to multiple human
rights violations. The lack of account-
ability for abuse on both sides escalated
the aready present ethnic "tensions, ac-
cording to Human Rights Watch. “The
Islamist groups have committed. ex-
ecutions, ﬂoggings and amputations
as punishment, recruited children into
their forces and destroyed religious and
cultural shrines,” according to—Human
Rights Watch.

Kennedy said, “Mali is a good ex-
ample of a ‘complex humanitarian emer-
gency’ - emergencies owing to multiple
causes, involving multiple actors and
compelling an international response.”

In an effort to regain state control
and alleviate human rights issues, the
government of Mali asked France to in-
tervene. Officials in Paris sent military
forces into Mali earlier this month.

According to BBC reports released on
Jan. 14, French troops were successful in
stopping the rebel forces from invading
Bamako. However, they are now faced
with the task of how to hold together the
dividing state.

“They had initial success with their
airstrikes, but the situation is already
showing signs of turning into a stale-
mate,” Kennedy added. “The interven-
tion was successful in preventing the fall
of Bamako — a success that we should not
understate - but retaking territory is go-
ing to be incredibly difficult.”

Oﬂicials are hoping to be able to see
some progress in the coming months.
“A critical priority will be to ensure that
military progress for the government
forces and their allies is rapidly followed
by humanitarian assistance and develop-
ment support,” BBC reported.

. Pul ne traions of honor

from our policy makers, Paul also spoke
ofthe individual liberties that we, as citi-
zens, receive. He believes that we should
receive all individual liberties that are
guaranteed to us in the Constitution, be-
cause the Constitution is the most impor-
tant document in our country, and should
be followed as such.

Paul said that the Constitution “is not
a living, breathing document,” and sim-
ply something that ‘has been laid out for
our society to use as guidelines.

Paul also spoke about the recent issue
with Lance Armstrong and the idea of

government intervention in athlete hear- ~

ings. He believes that the government
should not be spending their time on
athletes who use performance enhanc-
ing drugs, because, as he says, “almost
all Congressmen use drugs as well...
alcohol.”

Paul brought up some very contro-
versial points that have given him his
reputation as a politician thus far. Some
of those points included the abolition
of the Federal Reserve and the TSA, as
well as staying on the side of “freedom
of choice” in the marijuana legalization
issue that has been a hot topic since the
Nov. 6 elections.

Paul finished the night with criticiz-
ing the governmental system that is
now in place in our country. He stated

that “the system we have now is just not
working,” and “the evidence is clear that
the system is failing, which means that
we need a new system.” The new system
that he envisions is spearheaded by col-
lege students and young Americans like
ourselves.

The Contact Committee said that the
night was an absolute success consider-
ing it was the ﬁrst time in several years
that the Committee ﬁlled Lee Chapel.

The Committee also had a few words
to say about the congressman himself:
“The Congressman is extremely kind
and down-to-earth in-person. He in-
spired us at the dinner with him prior to
the event and I know he inspired a cha-
pel full of people during his speech.”

 

Twitter @berkysfood

am 2 at LEE lll

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EATBuffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450
540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online

E Find us on Face book

I

 

 
 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M O N DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

opin

\

ions

 

State of the University: a note from the E.C.

By Steele Burrow
GUEST WRITER

Besides its commitment to the Honor
System, the Executive Committee has
committed itself to a number of other
initiatives this year with the goal of im-
proving campus life and bettering the
opportunities for the student body as
a whole. We have worked to address
pressing student concerns, such as wire-
less access, as well as to improve more
nuanced parts of the campus that will
have the greatest effect upon the under-
classmen.

Our most tangible accomplishment
during the fall term was the beginning
of upperclassmen brunches, which we
hope will become a regular tradition.
We helped to organize four last semes-
ter, most of which had an attendance of
about 400 students, and we plan to in-
crease the number held this term. They
began with a simple thought: add a Sun-
day brunch for those who are not ﬁrst
years, grant students a chance to catch
up with friends in a community din-
ing experience, and make the all-you-
can-eat meal available for the price of
a burger and shake at Kenney’s. With
coordination from the administration,
we have been able to adapt each from
student feedback, and we welcome other
thoughts or recommendations.

Technology has been another focus.
For about two years, it was hardly a se-
cret that wiﬁ on campus — particularly
with Macs — often fell short of stu-
dents’ needs. Disconnections occurred
randomly, and speed tended to dimin-
ish during times we needed it most, like
exam week. Through signiﬁcant coordi-
nation with ITS and the efforts of several
EC members, those issues are now large-
ly gone. Room for improvement on the
technology front will always exist, but
the major wireless problems have now

abated. This semester, we hope for more
improvement in the on-campus printing
options, with the possible addition of a
printer in the commons entryway, a con-
venient option for those on the way to
class.

Two other dimensions in which we
are currently engaged are housing and
mental health. A number of students
have had questions about the nature of
the proposals on upperclassmen housing
within the administration and the Board.
We will be publishing more details on
the speciﬁcs of those soon. An informa-
tional survey from the E.C. will also be
distributed within the next month, and
student feedback on that will be incred-
ibly helpful.

Regarding mental health, the EC has
worked with Active Minds to explore
additional resources on campus for those
challenged by stress, depression and
other conditions. We also are consider-
ing a proposal to add peer counselor sup-
port for students faced with a potential
Honor Violation. This change would add
a training program for a small group of
peer counselors who could offer help to
accused students as an optional addition
to Honor Advocates.

Closer to the honor-related business
ofthe E.C., we have considered the role
of the Honor System on campus from
several dimensions, and the concern has
arisen about limited student exposure to
it after their freshman year. Tests, papers
and ﬁnal exams certainly remind us of
the role we all play in the Honor Sys-
tem. But how often do we discuss the
broader context of it? After the ﬁrst year
Lee Chapel speech, how often do we
consider the larger institutional role of
the Honor System here on campus? Or
the role it has in shaping the lives and

 

careers of W&L alumni?

To encourage dialogue on this topic
beyond the classroom, we have ad-
dressed those questions three-fold. First
is a series of open talks and discussions
on honor in its various forms. The IFC
began a panel discussion for first year
men during winter term last year. This
semester we intend to repeat that, with
improvements to make it more interac-
tive. Further, we hope to partner with a
number of faculty to develop a more per-
manent group of professors and students
committed to dialogue on the Honor
System and organizing discussions,
speakers and programs that bridge the

 

    

topic of honor with other realms of cam-
pus, both academic and extracurricular.
Also in progress is a recommended
reading list to be published on the EC’s
website as a resource for those interested
in learning more about the history and
context of the Honor System and vari-
ous forms of its principles. We plan to
include a variety of subjects, both ﬁction
and nonﬁction. Recommendations and
selections will be sought over the next
six to eight weeks, with the ﬁnal product
completed by Spring Break.
The third project focuses speciﬁcally
on the history of the Honor System here
on campus. Building upon past research,

archives, and articles, we plan to produce

a comprehensive history of ‘the Honor
System that can be read and downloaded
online. From Robert E. Lee’s earliest
conception to the interpretations by stu-
dent generations from World War I to
today, we hardly lack material.

A W&L student wrote in a newspa-
per column from l9l9 that, “The Honor
System in operation is a high tribute to
the fundamental sense of honor in hu-
man nature, but a higher one to the at-
mosphere of Washington and Lee.” We
hope to continue in that spirit and tradi-
tion.

Hacktivism: heroism or terrorism?

ByA|lie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

It is known asa new frontier, charac-
terized by unruly vigilantes, gold mines,
thievery, and dubious governance. No,

it’s not the backdrop to a John Wayne
movie. Today’s picture of the Wild
West takes place on a different kind of

WASHINGION AND I1-I UNTVERSTFY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITOR
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

HEAD OF DISTRIBUTION

, ANDREA OWEN

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 453-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM .
LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SNCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER .
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

BAILEY RUSSELL
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

STEELE BURROW
MARK GENSBURG

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

screenﬁcomputers.

Hacktivism is a form of protest done
via computers in order to make a politi-
cal statement. The earliest known act of
hacktivism occurred in I989, when the
WANK worm ﬁrst appeared in objection
to nuclear killers. The worm, believed
to have been created by two Australian
students of Julian Assange, invaded

_ the computer network used by NASA

and the US Department of Energy just
as a spacecraft" powered by plutonium
was about to be launched. Protestors
believed that the risk'of the spacecraft’
combusting, thus spilling the plutonium
and resulting in the death of all those
near the launch site, was unacceptable.
The worm caused the lyrics of a popular
Australian band to appear on computer
screens which read, “You talk of times
of peace for all, and then prepare for
war.”

Since then, hacktivism has been ram-
pant in countries all over the world. In
1999, a group called the Hong Kong
Blondes launched 228 cyber-attacks
against the Chinese government in
protest to what they called unfair busi-
ness practices with America which
trampled upon human rights. In 2007,
Estonian organizations were victims of
cyber-attacks believed to be the result
of the country’s actions in relocating the
Bronze Soldierof Tallinn and exhum-
ing Soviet soldiers’ remains; Russians,
obviously unhappy with the Estonian
government, flooded the computers

‘of these organizations so that use

was next to impossible. And in late
2012, a group calling themselves the
“Cutting Sword of Justice” wiped

clean the hard drives of three quar-

ters of Saudi Aramco’s computers,

replacing the data with an image of
a burning American ﬂag, in order to

speak out against oil policies in the

Middle East.

. The issue of hacktivism has
come to the foreground of American
news once again, as Aaron Swartz,
the man responsible for download-
ing and distributing millions of arti-
cles from J STOR, attempting to
give people free access to
the digital library’s
material, killed
himself
on
Janu-

313’

11th.

As
computer
hacking
constitutes
a felony re-

gardless of the hacker’s political agenda,
Swartz was looking at decades of prison
time. ,

The news of Swartz’s death has once
again brought about the question of
whether or not hacktivism is an essen-
tially moral act. Swartz believed that
academic research should be made pub-
licly available, and that charging inter-
ested parties a fee would only inhibit our
progress as a species. Those who rallied
around him believed in the nobility of
his ideas, painting him as something of
a hero.

Similarly, Julian Assange has been
construed as a human rights activist,
though he is now wanted by govern-
ments of Britain, Sweden, and the Unit-
ed States. The founder of WikiLeaks has
been accused of stealing U.S. military
documents, and is living as a free man
only because he was granted asylum by
the government of Ecuador. Meanwhile,
in 2011, his website was nominated for a
Nobel Peace Prize because, according to
one Norwegian legislator, “WikiLeaks
wants to make governments account-
able for their ac- tions and that
contributes to
peace.”

So what
is the ac-
tual moral
nature of

if

hacktivism? Is it a necessary guardian of
human rights, or is it the shadowy under-
taking of online-terrorists?

In my opinion, hacktivism is today’s
version of the vigilante antics ofthe Old
West. Sometimes, these cyber-cowboys
get a little too high on their horses~cer-
tainly, attacks on foreign governments
for the sake of individual vendettas are
not heroic. But for the most part, I think
that the Norwegian lawman was right.
Hacktivism is simply the modem-day
version of protest, much like the March
on Washington or the Orange Revolu-
tion. It is the citizens’ way of holding
their government accountable for the
general wellbeing of its people. In a
world that functions by use of the in-
ternet, political statements made online
are merely the logical way of making
those in power pay attention. While not
all acts are reasonable—Swartz’s ideol-
ogy may have been honorable, though
it seems that he did not take capitalism
into considerationgl believe that the at-
titude which causes one to defend their
beliefs and to stick up for the oppressed
is what constitutes America’s greatness.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 21,2013

 

Where do we go from here?

Graham Cohen and Yates Wilburrz give their take on the recent tragedies, and the future of gun control in America _

Taking aim at gun control

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF warren

The recent mass shootings in Aurora,
Colorado and Newtown, Conn. have
once again brought gun ownership into
the limelight of our political discussion.
As has already been proven, simply pro-
hibiting weapons doesn’t work. Hand-
gun bans in Chicago and Washington
D.C. were in place for nearly 40 years
before being ruled unconstitutional, and
had little to no demonstrable effect on
those cities’ murder rates or the amount
of crimes in which a gun was used. Even
ifone pointed to the rapid drop in violent
crime nationally through the 1990s and
claimed that these handgun bans were
responsible, one would still have to ex-
plain why it took nearly two decades for
them to have any noticeable impact. Fur-
thermore, the same person would have
to explain why there are more guns in
the hands of more Americans today than
at any time in history (not to mention
the highest rate of gun ownership since
2001), and yet murders involving guns
nationally are at their lowest since 1981,
while robberies and assaults involving
guns are at their lowest rates since 2004.

Mexico’s gun laws prohibit carry-
ing ﬁrearms outside the home, allowing
only for certain guns to beikept inside
the home, and have resulted in only one
govemment-run store in Mexico City
being; authorized to-s‘ell ﬁrearms to the
entire-population. On top of this, the pro-
cedure to acquire a ﬁrearm makes ours
look like a cakewalk. The result? A 2012
murder rate of 16.9 per l00,000—com-

.‘x

isi>oNso1§Eo, BY, s_T  if

AGAINST RQCKBRIDCE AREA".

HUNGER (SARAH) 

pared with 4.2 in the US. Many reading
this will claim comparing Mexico to the
United States as unfair, but l’ve never
heard the argument made that banning
ﬁrearms works “in certain places.” ,

Am 1 making the claim ‘that more
guns or fewer laws will result in less
crime? Ofcourse not. I am simply show-
ing that the common liberal argument
that-more guns results in less crime is
just as ﬂawed. Neither side has the evi-
dence to prove causation. Now if one
were to make the claim more guns in the
hands ofcriminals results in more crime,
you would hear no disagreement from
me or the National Rifle Association for
that matter.

Criminals don’t get their guns through
legal avenues; they don’t walk into a gun
store and give up when they fail a back-
ground check. Banning gun sales does
one thing: it keeps guns out ofthe hands
of law-abiding citizens. It does nothing
to stop criminals from getting them. 1
am by no means saying that we should
allow anyone anywhere to purchase any

r gun with zero accountability, that’s fool-

ish and irresponsible. There are certainly
several things that can be done (closing
the gun show loophole, stricter account-
ability on private sales) to make the sale
of ﬁrearms in this country safer. But to
say that simply banning the purchase
of all ﬁrearms (or just assault weapons
for that matter) by law-abiding citizens
is the answer to all of our problems is
equally foolish and naive. A horrifying

l

*8:OO l’.M. - 930 Em. A I

1"“:

FRIDAY, JANUARY 25  1

Eoooksv OPEN Ar 7:30 PM ' S

if *T1c1<E'rsIAvA1LA13LE._EQR $108, 

IN COMMONS .;-?  .-

1/21 - 1/25, ANDAT EVEN

 Err sTu'r5i>’EN'rs.woiL1L1): Like To
ENTER A TEAM, CONTACT r>ER1_<Y’ H
GIVEN AT ClVENS13@MAlL wtu.,EDu. ‘_ ’

lack of even the most basic gun knowl-
edge is equally frustrating.

But let’s give the liberal argument the
beneﬁt ofthe doubt. Let’s say we plug up
the gun-show loophole, ban privatesales
outright, force everyone purchasing a
gun to take a polygraph test and ban the
purchase of all automatic ﬁrearms (as
opposed to those made after 1986, as is
the case now). While we’re at it, why not
ban assault weapons and high capacity
magazines? That should work, right?
Wrong. The Columbine High School
massacre happened ﬁve years into the
ﬁrst ban. High capacity mags were cov-
ered under that ban as well, so the shoot-
ers brought a lot of smaller mags. Oh,
bonus fact, none of the weapons they
used were automatic. Straw-man pur-
chasers (like sending a 21-year-old to
get a teen booze) purchased all of those
guns legally under the assault weapons
ban. The only weapon the shooters could
not have obtained easily under the cir-
cumstances outlined above would have
been their TEC-9, acquired by a straw
man at a gun show. For the others, po-
lice wouldn’t have known any laws were
broken until the shooters actually started
their killing spree; the inherent problem
with simply throwing more laws at the
problem.

‘ So under a ban, what is considered an
assault weapon according to Congress?

1'Tl_iI!;5_I liq

 

  

S tinue to" be employed to devastat-
- ing effect.) ,, Instead, 1 simplylargue
*thatjone’s‘ ‘mind, in addition to one’s

‘ good meiitai health, thenthere would
 fa:r‘gfevs:er horrors such as the‘ one
that  this article. ‘

1. Semiautomatic riﬂes able to
accept a detachable magazine
and two or more of he
following:

-Folding or telescoping stock
-Pistol grip

-Bayonet mount
-A ﬂash suppressor, or a barrel
designed to accept one

-Grenade launcher

2. Certain types of pistols and
shotguns

Newsﬂash: the shooter in the New-
town, Conn. shooting could have just
as easily carried out his rampage with
weapons that featured only one of
those items, that being a pistol grip.
The only thing that would have put
these weapons (owned by his mother
in a classic example of straw-man pur-
chase) in violation ofa ban would have
been their ﬂash suppressors, something
he could have easily done without for
his purposes.

The point here is this: Even if you
ban all private gun ownership, orjust
concealed carry, criminals and psycho-
paths will still get the weapons they
want to commit their atrocious acts.
Think of all the things that are totally
banned in this country: Cuban cigars,

er for against 
e 1 think that guns,

opinions

pot, heroine, cocaine, crystal meth, LSD,
ecstasy, mushrooms, prostimtion and
hiring an illegal immigrant. Despite be-
ing banned under the threat of stiff legal
penalties, they all crowd the headlines
and impact our lives. So many activists,
politicians and special interest groups
advocate for the legalization of several
of these activities, pointing to the utter
failure of the prohibition of alcohol as
proof that prohibition not only doesn’t
work, but makes the problem worse. And
yet, when many of these same people are
asked what they think about gun control,
they fall on the exact opposite side of the
discussion. I hope these people will read
this and gain another point of view.
I will leave you with this scenario:
Imagine for a moment that an armed
bystander were present at the theatre
in Aurora, Colo., or an armed teacher
were teaching at the school in Newtown,
Conn. Imagine that these armed citizens
were able to kill the psychopaths before
they could carry out their acts of vio-
lence, and well before the police arrived.
Even if the intense 8-hour safety
courses and shooting tests required for
concealed permits by most states—in-
cluding my home state of South Caro-
1ina—don’t prevent such collateral dam-
age, consider this: wouldn’t it be better
to read, “Psychopath kills 10, armed
bystander shoots and kills shooter and 3
in crossﬁre” in the newspaper than “Psy-
chopath kills 28, injures 3 at Newtown,
Conn. school”? \

 
    
 
 
  
 

body, ought: to be checked at an an-.  

jnual meclicalicheckup. "Also, so thati.
;i,‘everyoncf‘.’s,.‘mindv is healthy, everyone 1;

ought ’to“5;be_ required, by law, ‘to have
a-yearly checkup. If everyone were in

Wm...

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MON DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

7 ~' <3; « - ‘ If

.  A ,,,:,£iM3il’lSa 1 a
Favorite part about studying abroad?
Being able to learn about another country’s culture, while getting to
witness it ﬁrsthand.

What you missed most about W&L while you were gone?
I missed my friends from W&L the most when I was gone. I also
missed my extracurricular activities, such as Bonner and Chamber

Singers.
Craziest (Phi-appropriate) study abroad story?

Since I was in a pre-medical course, we got to visit hospitals, and in one B

hospital I got to see a live birth! It was probably the weirdest, scariest
and coolest thing I got to see during my time abroad.

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
abroad?

I never expected to jump on trampolines along the harbor in
downtown Copenhagen. Copenhagen has placed these trampolines in
the city merely for the public’s enjoyment, and  I. V ,
they are awesome! ..  ‘ "

Three words to sum up your
experience?

Life-changing, enlightening,
fantastic! .

Copenhagen, '

By Cynthia Lam
A&L EDITOR

Best part about studying abroad?

I loved being able to branch out and do crazy things I would
never normally do! I learned to play the bagpipe and joined the 
mountaineering club!

Reason why you chose to study here?

I wanted to go to an English-speaking country, but most] , I wanted
to go somewhere beautiful! I wasn’t let down by Scotlands rolling
mountains, vast lakes and year-round green fields!

What you missed most about W&L while you were gone?
My friends! Good food (Scots don’t like to season...)! And Sweet Frog...
there’s nofro-yo in Scotland.

Craziest (Phi-appropriate) study abroad story? ..

I went to Paris with a bunch of other girls from W&L. We knew we had
to get to the airport at 3 am the next morning for our ﬂight, so we just
stayed up all night, walked along the Champs-

Elysee, and enjoyed the sites!

Three words to describe your
experience?

Different. Breathtaking.
Transforming.

St. /4nc[’tews, 560

Reason you chose to study here? ‘
I couldn’t decide where to go so I found a program that went, er,
everywhere. .

What you missed most about W&L while you were gone?
The people. The parties. The Colonnade. Def not Natty Light...

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
abroad? I
Finding jesus (in Rio, I mean).

Three words to sum up your experience?
Delightful. Dangerous. Dank.

. t est part about studying abroad?
H _ B, ’ Those moments of perfection that would

  ‘  occur whenlwas chatting and drinking tea
with a tea shop owner, hangingout with the oldsters in the park
playing mahjon , or being a voyeur watching the city of Kunming
descending on the Green Lake on Saturdays.

Reason why you chose to study here?

I am a Chinese major, and I therefore naturally wanted to further my
language skills. I chose a program where you couldn’t speak English. It
was instrumental in helping me with my goal of a true exchange.

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
abroad?
Eating boiled bee larvae. Plump and white. Slimy, yet satisfying.

New phrase/language you picked up?
Oooh man. Too many to mention! My favorite is pronounced like gub-
murr. It is like “dude ’ or “bro.”

Something you wish you could have brought back to W&L with you?
The food! Oh my god the food! The mushrooms were a Yunnan
specialty, and man when they were grilled at the little barbecue stands
on the roadside; heaven.

Best part about studying abroad? _

Having the opportunity to ex erience a different culture ﬁrst-hand

and to be able to begin to feellike a local. There came a time when all
the major sites ceased to blow me away when I would see them. After
passing by the Colosseum or the Pantheon ten or so times.i. it had all
become a part of normal life for me. That’s when I realized I had moved
beyond tourist-mode to experiencing the place like a local.

Reason why you chose to study here?

Gelato. (joking, of course, but seriously, that was a major plus!) I
chose Rome because the Italian culture seemed very rich - their food
is incredible, all of them dress unbelievably well and family is one of
the most important things to them. I hoped that maybe a few of their
characteristics would wear off on me. As it turns out, I came back with
a Florentine leather jacket and a dead-sexy haircut. On top of that, as a
Roman Catholic, I knew that it would be an incredible opportunity to
live at the heart of the Church.

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
b ad? ‘

‘ ‘i ~  ever thought thatlwould be personally chautfeured to my

 I‘ 1 esidence byaformer Archbishop and current member ofthe
“ s College of Cardinals . Being a bit of a Catholic nerd, that
as a pretty cool experience for me.

from across the world]

$e<rraéef ./daze 34 A

Best part about studying abroad? ‘
Meeting new people and visiting different countries across Europe with
friends.

Reason why you chose to study here?

Having experienced Scotland for an entire semester, I wouldn’t have
wanted to study abroad anywhere else. You escape the homesickness
of being in a country where you don’t know the native language but
you also get the pros of studying abroad and having that cultural
experience that you’ll remember for the rest of your life.

What you missed most about W8rL while you were gone?

The free food that is everywhere on campus. Paying 18 dollars a meal
tends to empty your bank account pretty fast.

Craziest (Phi-appropriate) study abroad story?
Fitting two people on a tiny rental bike and biking through the streets
of Paris at 3 am, and then accidentally merging onto a highway.

Something you thought you would never do
but ended up doing abroad?
Doing a 20-foot pier jump into the
orth Sea in the middle of December.

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

7 ~ THE RING-TUM PHI 0

  

 

arts&life

Finding the “Keyes” to happiness  

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

What constitutes a “good life”? What makes
humans happy? Is it attainable‘? So many ques-
tions and so few answers! “Questioning the
Good Life,” a year-long series seminar with six
visiting speakers, attempts to answer these deep
questions and many more. So far, the speakers
have addressed everything from the economical
to philosophical facets of happiness. Last week,
Dr. Corey Keyes, a sociology professor at Emory
University, was the fourth of six speakers, and he
discussed mental illness and health.

“In policy terms, even if we could cure men-
tal illness tomorrow, that doesn’t guarantee good
mental health,” Keyes told an audience in Stack-
house Theater last Thursday.

His reasoning: although mental illness and
mental health are correlated, they do not belong
in the same dimension. While the United States
government primarily focuses on mental illness.
Keyes believes it would produce better results to
focus on mental health.

There is a stigma associated with mental ill-
ness, especially in light ofthe multiple shootings
that have occurred recently. Mental illness, in
the minds of many Americans - thanks to grue-
some stories in the media - is linked to violence.
(In reality, only 1 percent of people diagnosed
with mental illness are prone to violence.)

The government responds to this popular fear
by creating special programs for the mentally ill.
Unfortunately, in today’s healthcare world, men-

tal illness is treated, but not cured or prevented.
According to Keyes, the government spends
their money on “squashing all the illness before
investing in health.”

Keyes sees more potential in the positive side
— mental health. First, he deﬁned “ﬂourishing”
and its counterpart, “languishing,” in terms of
psychological, social and emotional well-being.
He then studied the resulting effects of those at-
titudes. By using statistics and graphs (he really
likes graphsl), he demonstrated the movement
towards ﬂourishing, which promotes the increas-
ingly positive outcomes.

When people are happy, “there is a greater
return in terms of investment.” Keyes’ advice
to the government is to start providing resources
for ﬂourishing. There is not enough ﬂourishing,
and not ﬂourishing is a burden, yet with promo-
tion and protection, this can be easily remedied.

“If we take happiness seriously, we will pre-
vent mental illness in the first place,” attested
Kcyes. .

Keyes is a sociologist and psychologist. He
teaches at Emory University and has written
multiple books. His model of health is being
adopted by Canada’s public health sector and
some ofhis ideas are being implemented into the
United States Healthy People Program 2020.

Dr. Corey Keyes discusses the role of happiness in mental illness and health
during his speech in the “Questioning the Good Life” series on Jan. 17.

   

"ta

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

  

  
 

GETTI-IERE

From Lexington, get on Highway 64 and
head west, driving for about 40 miles
until you reach Exit 21 for VA-696. That’s
where you will turn right onto Selma Low
Moor Rd, and then immediately left onto
State Route 1101.
State Route 1101 for two miles until you

Continue following

reach a turning point at an intersection
with Jackson River. Turn right and fol-
low State Route 1104/Valley Ridge Rd

for 0.1 miles, and watch out for the ‘cave

entrance on your right.

Island Ford Cave is a popular desti-
nation for recreational cavers, and offers
an adequately challenging experience

' for both beginners and more experienced

professionals. Its main inhabitants in-
clude bats, fossils, leisurely cavers and
the occasional geology class. Located in
Covington, West Va., about 40 minutes
away, Island Ford Cave offers an excit-
ing opportunity for adventure.

This weekend, I had the chance to
‘visit the cave with the Outing
Club. The group, led by Mr.
James Dick, consisted often stu-
dents of varying experience lev-
els. Though I had been caving
before, I was excited to take on
this experience with my fellow
spelunkers. The endeavor surely
fostered new friendships and re-
inforced old ones, as adventure
always does. I,

The ﬁrst step to planning a
caving trip is to make sure you
are adequately prepared; ‘there
are a few essential rules to live
by. The most crucial rule is to
‘NEVER go caving alone. It is
easy to get lost, _or worse, in-
jured, deep within thecave, and
without a partner, the risks» in-
volved in the pursuit ‘are much\
higher. It" is also important to
go with someone who has been
in the cave before, or at the very
least to bring a map or some oth-
er means of knowing where you
are. Finally, always bring at least
three independent sources ‘of
light, including back-up batteries
and light bulbs if you’re using a

  AVIN

ﬂashlight, or some waterproof matches
for an emergency situation. , .

A hard hat is a must,(I probably hit
my helmet inside the cave at least ten
times). Kneepads are a worthwhile in-
vestment, as well, especially when you

will be crawling on the ground. Many .- ,

caves have surprisingly low tempera-
tures - Island Ford stays around 55 _de-
grees year-round — so make sure to bring

warm clothes that you won’t mind get- ,
ting (very) muddy. Closed-toed shoes .

are vital; if possible, waterproof shoes
would be ideal,’ because the trek through
Island Ford (if you do the whole loop)
can involve a lot of water and mud.
Once you are adequately prepared,
the fun can begin. The entrance to 15-
land Ford is an ominouslylarge, trian-
gle-shaped hole just off the side of the
road. Once you’re inside the cave and

away from the outside light, it can take I

the eyes up to 40 minutes to completely
adjust to thedarkness (personally, I felt
ﬁne after about ten). A certain cold hu-
midity lingers - a uniquesensat‘ionI have
found only in caves - perhaps a product

of the stagnant air. Together, the, atmo- -

sphere invokes a sense of adventure.

Island Ford Cave is notan easy walkiii
through the park; the path you follow is ’ V V A _
‘g at all times)’, Don’t leave any 

one of climbing, sliding, duckingiand-'
crawling.) Though there are a number "of
different paths you can take andimany

dead ends to explore, the most common e

route is tostay on the old streambed on
the way in and leave by following the
existing stream.

The old streambed is'a  Ive the.cur- 
rent, running stream, and 'is‘visib_le at
times during your trip. Don’t be dis- '

.1 . and ﬁnd food. The bats can onlyhave so

in up the winter before their small’ bodies 

    
 
     
   
    

By Josh White
_$T‘AFF WRJTE
couraged, by very narrow sections where
you might have to crawl in order to keep
‘ onmoving forward; the pathkeeps go-
ing until you reachranwopen roomfwith
‘a low ceiling and a large clear pool of
water. if .  ~’ 
Among the numerous breatlxtakin
sights are the cave bats. They are about»...
the lsilzeof your thumb, and during hi *
time of year, theyiwill be hanging frorh
the ceiling in hibernation. The bats at‘
very sensitive creatures during the w
‘ ter, so doeverything in your power? no
to wakethem up. The heat ﬁ'orn}th'
' light of yourﬂashlight can be enou ‘ t
change the chemistry in their‘ bodie so
that they will think;it’s time to go outsid

  
   
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
    

, manyof these falseawakenings during

out, so itis best to “exercise -caution 
awareness when you encounter them

the . stones .,tra’iling¢th  _ d
tinue to «follow it all the " 
entra;nce.of the’ cave.‘ I '
narrower andyvetter
ing in,buti it is worth it
As always,’ treat the c

: other natural environment, it
atmosphere, and one of Ve
mains 'open_to the pub M

. one thing to ‘-remember,‘ " g_
have an awesome timelf, I

   

  

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

  arts&|ife

 

Spotlight: Generals of the Month  

Courtesy of Celebrating Student Success

PRESS RELEASE

Washington and Lee University
seniors Shannon McGovern and Ke-
aton Fletcher will be recognized at the
Generals of the Month presentation
for January on Thursday, Jan. 24, at
11:45 a.m. in the Marketplace in El-
rod Commons.

McGovern, of Silver Spring, Md.,
is a journalism and mass communi-
cations and computer science double
major. She is a member of the W&L
Outing Club, a trip leader for The
Leading Edge Appalachian Adventure
pre-orientation trip, and a member of
Chi Omega sorority.

A graduate of Georgetown Visi-
tation Preparatory School in Wash-
ington, McGovern is a computer sci-
ence lab assistant and works on W&L
Campus Recreation Social Media
placing announcements and ads. Last
summer, she interned at U.S. News

and World Report interv_iewing po-
litical authors and policymakers and
covering current political news, legal
controversies and policy changes.

psychology and neuroscience double
major. He is a Johnson Scholar, presi-
dent of Lifestyle Information for Ev-
eryone (LIFE), development chair of
Beta Beta Beta Biological Honor So-
ciety and vice president of recruitment
for Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.

A graduate of Columbine High
School, he is a member of Psi Chi
Psychology Honor Society and a .
member of General Admission, a coed
a cappela group. He has been on the
Dean’s List during the 2009-2010 and
2011-2012 academic years.

Fletcher, of Littleton, Colo., is a

Generals of the Month is coor-

dinated by the Celebrating Student
Success (CSS) initiative and spon-

sored by the Division of Student Af-
fairs to inspire engaged citizenship at
Washington and Lee University. CSS
seeks to recognize students who are .
not typically or sufficiently touted for
the depth and breadth they add to our
campus community.

McGovern and Fletcher were se-
lected by the CSS Committee, which
is composed of students, ‘faculty and
staff Any member of the campus
community can nominate a W&L stu-
dent at any time with the online form : --
at go.wlu.edu/css.

Future CSS presentations during
the 2012-2013 academic year will be
held during lunch in the Marketplace
in the Elrod Commons on Feb. 14, and
dates in March, April and May, yet to
be determined.

 

Tsone

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

Not many people can match the
athleticism of Washington and Lee’s
Pilates instructor Julia Tisone.

Interestingly enough, Pilates is not
Tisone’s original area of expertise.
She extends off Pilates with back-
grounds in gymnas-

tops Pilates

As a result of her developing love for
these classes, and Reynold’s depar-
ture from the University, Tisone de--
cided to get her Pilates certiﬁcation.
“My favorite part is playing with
the balls and weights,” said Tisone

Junior Courtney Lewis is one of
Tisone’s younger students. “It’s a re-
ally good complement to cardio be-
cause [Tisone] doesn’t do many repe-
titions, but goes through the stretches
and exercises slowly so that every

muscle is worked

tics, trail running and
bike racing.

“I’ve been an ath-
lete all my life, so
[Pilates] is just a good
continuation of it,”
said Tisone.

She came to the

University after he‘ and knows how to work with eve muscle in on] °“13’ an h°“"5
..hus,b.and,.J,ames Dick, '3’ 3’

’, TVVaS named DlI'€CtO1' Of   is  ”

Student Programming

A “[Tisone] doesn’t do many repetitions, but goes LeWiS_ “You can
through the stretches and exercises slowly so that
every muscle is worked or stretched... You can tell

that Julie really understands how the body works h°“"° ‘”‘’’k with

and Campus Recre_ Junior Courtney L€WiS

ati0n_  is reSp0n_   Pilates class on

sible for running the

Outing Club, Group Exercise, Sports
Clubs and lntramurals and student
programming and events.

According to Tisone, her position
as an instructor evolved after taking
classes with.the school’s previous
Pilates teacher, Elizabeth Reynolds.

about her class.

Tisone said her students’ range
from ages '18 to 60 plus. Due to the
large age gap, Tisone tries to use a
wide range of music selections dur-
ing her class. All of her music comes
from her own personal collection.

12:15 p.m. in the Dance Studio.

or stretched,” said

tell that Julie re-
ally understands
how the body
works and knows

every muscle in
class!”

Interested stu-
dents ' and staff

can take Tisone’s

Thursdays at

.

 

.WZetcﬂe/3 76’

‘I

   

Exhibit showcases a bright Future

By Graham Colton ,
HEAD COPY EDITOR _

Last Wednesday in Wilson Hall’s
Concert Hall, Emily Smith, the guest
curator of Staniar Gallery and Director
of 1708 Gallery in Richmond, Va., dis-
cussed Future Perfect, Staniar Gallery’s
exhibition of the artwork of recent grad-
uates of Virginia Commonwealth Uni-
versity’s Graduate School of the Arts.
The young artists’ work can be enumer-
ated from traditional to nontraditional
media.

 

Plctured above: Sayaka Suzukl'_s “Hunting for the Spirits,” photo-

“Katie lets the painting evolve as she
makes it,” said Smith.

Unlike Baines, Sayaka Suzuki, a glass
sculptor, takes care to make wrought (lit-
erally) an object whose implications are
as clear and hard as the glass of which
it is made.

“There’s a duality to her projects,”
Smith said. “Using a material as delicate
and fragile as glass, she portrays menac-
ing, threatening and violent images.”

graphed by Thomas J. Condon, a feature in the art exhibit.

The work of Katie Baines, made
from acrylic on panel, is nonrepresenta-
tional and surreal. Her Cornucopia, for
instance, experiments with the Thanks-
giving cornucopia by painting the wick-

er basket a rainbow of colors, while still ,

coloring the basket brown in spots. In
another work of hers, Baines depicts a
pile of multicolored paint which has
haphazardly pooled in the comer, sym-
bolizing the artist’s free-ﬂowing, unin-
tentional style which, despite its lack of
planning, retains its aesthetic appeal.

In “Hunting for the Spirits,” a pho-
tograph, a camouﬂage-clad hunter is
shown wielding a glass riﬂe, through
which glow the warm, golden-brown
rays of a setting sun. Similarly, in an-
other photograph, “Landscape of Rain-
bows,” caste shell casings and bullets,
colored in the brightness of the Crayola
spectrum, rest side-by-side to one anoth-
erin an undulating line.

Whereas Baines and Suzuki, respec-
tively, make art out of the more tradi-
tional media of acrylic paint and glass,

 

the world, it should be noted, is Naoko
Wowsugi’s medium. ‘

Born in South Korea, raised in Ja-
pan and schooled in the United States,
Wowsugi is a world traveler whose citi-
zenship is, as Smith deadpanned, “none
of your business.” Seeking to leave her
mark across the planet, Wowsugi makes
noninvasive connections to businesses
and people from everywhere.

’For example, at a Richmond cafe
where straws and stirrers were served
in three Styrofoam cups, Wowsugi re-
placed one of them with more sustain-
able ceramic mugs. Without knowing
who did so, management agreed to the
change by swapping the other two out
for more mugs.

At a mom-and-pop bakery in Ver-
mont, Wowsugi replaced a framed
magazine article or photograph on the
wall with a new photograph once every
twenty days. The bakery consented to
the interior redesign by simply rearrang-
ing the placement of the photographs on
the wall after all the magazine cutouts
had been supplanted.

With people, Smith said, Wowsugi
is “trying to ﬁnd relationships and her
place.” Just as she did with businesses,
Wowsugi chooses a single element (a
person), changes it (befriends him), and
replicates that change on a large scale
(asks her new friend to introduce her
to his friends). Wowsugi then does the
same with someone in her new friend’s
group of friends.

The artists presented thus far
have used acrylic paint, glass and the
world. Alina Tenser, however, uses
nothing. Instead, she lets nature do the
work, having taken a boulder from a
Richmond riverbank and dubbed it “art.”
What is artistic about, in Smith’s words,
“taking something out of its natural set-
ting and plunking it down on a gallery
ﬂoor”?

As the water, wind and erosion of
nature itself, Tenser assumes the role of

artist as Mother Nature. Although unac-
companied by video at Staniar Gallery,
Tenser’s boulder is meant to be accom-
panied by a video in which her disem-
bodied hands mold rock. This seems
to symbolize the formative influence of
touch (or lack thereof) both physically,
as seen in its sculpting of the boulder,
and antisocially, as exemplified by the
continual stretching, reaching and long-
ing of her hands for some other set of

hands which is just not there.

Future Perfect, a collection of the
work of Katie Baines, Genesis Chap-
man, Will Machin, Valerie Molnar, Matt
Shelton, Sayaka Suzuki, Alina Tenser
and Naoko Wowsugi, will be on display
in the Staniar Gallery until Feb. 7.

Show off! Take a day off of classes and present your favorite
course essay, new cover album, or studio art masterpiece at
SSA5. Project submissions are due Jan. 25th at ssa.w|u.edu.

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 21,2013

1;/M 11,4./M4//sir

Manti Te’o has been in the public eye recently
thanks to a Deadspin story by Timothy Burke and
Jack Dickey that broke the fact that his alleged
girlfriend never actually existed. y

We now all know that his alleged girlfriend,
22-year-old Lennay Kekua, was not involved in a
car crash early in 2012. We now all know that she
did not die of leukemia the same week as Te’o’s
grandmother back in September. We now all know
that the photos on. her Twitter account were of a
different woman, unaware of the use of her picture.
The real question is this: did Te’o know all of this
all along or did he ﬁnd out with the rest of us?

It seems that Te’o. learned what had happened
in December after receiving a phone call fromethe
woman whom he. knew as Kekua . According to

USA Today, Notre Dame started an investigation V

at the beginning of January, a week after Te’o in-
formed the University of the alleged hoax.

After the Deadspin article was published, Notre
Dame released a statement saying that the creation
of Kekua was a “sad and very cruel deception to
entertain its perpetratorsf".

Te’o was duped, plain and simple.

He. never met Kekua . _

1 and had _V V
' no reason; to doubt

anything‘ ;.that . she
said or didflt was an

online 1 relationship, -

the sort) that [many

 Amer'ic_ansi. A have '.to- l
» day.’ Even MTV has a"

ishlowvtitled ‘fCatﬁsh:

. The TV‘ Show” about

people in‘ ‘ the "same

Vsort of situation as
 Te"o:a .and~.;t*,be,lieve 

that-they are in love was

' Kekua

with someone and don’t know tl1at'theyrdon’t actti.:.

ally exist. .

She, was also apparentlya selﬂess "girlfriend?-_ ~
who told him to put football before her. He received ‘
texts and letters that she would write on,her iPad .
before each of his games. Hesaysthat he’d_idn’t‘goV

. to the funeral because shetold him to never iniiss‘-ai-V

game. L .
~Te’0i thought
that he talked to
her on’ thephone
every night when
she was in the-
hospital, -falling 
asleep listeningto,  1 y

, her breathing. He ‘

had talked to her_,'_. 
onfthe’ phone in , 
the lockergroom, «
even passing the ’
phone /to team-'
mates". Nobody
thought anything. 
was amiss.‘ 3," ‘V
‘Although

wasn’t

actually

,1  A _ _s’s"ed,Vb
entirevordeal and has not'tspoken__1ti'uch' of it.»
‘week he granted an interview to'ESPN,after

story broke. This week will‘b e his first on?-cam

interview- with Katie Couric on her daytime.-.t_a_,lk’ 
show on Thursday. We mayinev__efr”f1nd. out all‘o_ he 5*
* details -of this elaborate hoax vbutvit se_etns“-tha

_was.the victim, not one.ofthe'per'petr"

This week the world ound out that the tragic 1
death of Manti e’o’s girlfriend this past
September was fake. Did Te’o know it was
fake the enitre time?
Leigh and Hailey square 017 on the
controversy

This college football season Manti Te’o served
as aninspiration to Notre Dame and football fans
alike. His story of overcoming the loss of his
grandmotheriand girlfriend within the span of a
few days was heartbreaking and moving alike. His
performance against Michigan State was the pas-

sionate response just days after their passing. The a
is 1 game ball was 1

presented to _v

5 dearly V.

Te’o’s
departed "girl.
friend.’ His story
-brought,’ fans to

tears, and served _ W

1 as; an

.  -Butt  then
fﬂeadspin -' "re- 5

‘itileased a story

‘ .put,’to”getl1er with 8
: evidence 1. that.

= Te’o’s girlfriend,

' » "L'enn_ay Kekua, .

1 never , existed.
"Kekua was an
1 __ Tonline personali-

less than an hour’

' Notre Dame re- a
sponded almost immediately to the story that went _

viral, claiming that they were aware Kekua was not

real and that Te’o had known about the hoaxsince '

December 26. Te’o and Notre Dame had appar-

ently been planning on releasing the information,‘

on their own time before the4Deadspin story broke.
_There are many questions surrounding the

hoax’. The most important being, what was Te’o’s »
involvement? The reaction to the hoax, and the

subsequent ﬁndings, could impact Te’o’s draft
stock. Either way it seems like a lose-lose for Te’o:
he was either naive enough to fall in love with an

-thro erence

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

_ ty created by who
‘is-', now known,
to’ be:- Ronaiah 
Tuiasosopo. 1n’,

On Tuesday, senior forward Katy Wil-
son hit a game-winning free throw with 3.5
seconds left in the game to push the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s basketball team to
a 55-54 win over Randolph.

After the Generals came back from a
nine-point deﬁcit, cutting it to three, ﬁrst-
year forward Shelbi Hendricks recorded a
three-point play to tie the game at 54-54
with 1:26 on the clock. Neither team could
break the tie until a foul by Wildcat ju-
nior guard Emilee Dunton sent Wilson to
the line and led to the game-winning free
throw. .

W&L opened the second half with a
jumper by Hendricks for a four-point ad-
vantage just 35 seconds into the period.
Randolph fought back with consecutive
points to take a 31-30 lead by the 16:53
mark. Generals’ senior guard Megan Marks
pulled back the lead, 33-31, only to have

Wildcat ﬁrst-year guard Abigail Bullins an-
swer with a jumper at. 16:23 to tie the con-
test at 33.

The Generals controlled the next 5:44 of
the game as they held a steady lead until
8:51, when the Wildcats took a 43-42 lead
off a jumper by sophomore forward Allie
Druffel. A free throw by Wilson tied the
game at 43-43 with 8:00 left to play, but
Randolph went on an 11-2 run over the next
3:18 to pull forward and claim the nine-
point lead at 4:42.

The teams went back and forth to start
the game and were deadlocked at 6-6 by the
15:34 mark. The Generals went on a 12-4
stretch to give it an 18-10 at 12:50. Ran-
dolph continued to stay in the game, scor-
ing the next nine points and holding W&L
scoreless for eight minutes.

The Generals regained ' the lead and
pushed it to ﬁve by the 2:12 mark as Marks

connected on a layup. After back-to-back
shots by Randolph, the score was again
tied, 26-26, with 1:26 to go. Neither team
scored again until senior forward Rachel
Warrick landed two free throws to push the
Generals’ lead to two (28-26) at the break.

For the game, the Wildcats shot 38.2
percent from the ﬁeld, while holding W&L
to 33.3 percent from the ﬂoor and 21.4 per-
cent from long range.

Hendricks paced the Blue and White
with her ﬁrst career double-double on 18
points and 11 rebounds, while adding three
assists and two steals. Marks notched 10
points and four boards, and Wilson collect-
ed 12 points, eight rebounds, ﬁve assists
and a pair of blocks.

THE RING-TUM PHI '

\\.\\\.‘x.‘\ \\\‘i\\‘\.‘t.‘\

imaginary girl he had met online and lied about his
face-to-face interactions with her to cover up his
embarrassment, or he was a part of the scandal.
selﬁsh and manipulative.

Since the story broke Te’o has done an ofl’cam-
era interview and a source has come out saying
that Tuiasosopo was behind Kekua‘s internet pro-

ﬁles and-'Te‘o was ‘never aware of the hoax. The

hoax has become he said-she said. While people
are coming outsupporting Te’o, and his interviews

» seem gen"uine,‘1 have a hard time believing his sto-
' ; ry. We live in a world that is dominated by media

andtechnology,» albeit 4media.,'that don’t bother to

Check person is real. This is the day and age of

«Skype‘_ ~Face‘time,iSn'apchat and various other so-
’ f  es‘thatfallo_w..us.' to: communicate with
on V. A , o"inatterf_:'how much distance sepa-
rates us. ’i' _   ‘ » ’ ’
~ Aceordingito the Deadspin article, Te’o claimed

'toi'ha‘ve‘m_e't Kekua in 2009. That’s three years dur-
mg which -they supposedly‘ knew each other. Even

if it was an online re.lationship that'Te’o truly be-
lieved was real, there had to have been an oppor-
tunityjfor them to make some sort of face—to-face
contact. While Te’o might not have known imme-
diately that she was not real, there is no possible

\ way he didn’t ﬁgure it out within the three years

he claimed to have been friends/dating her. The in-
volvement ofTuiasosopo,_tweets made by Te’o and
comments ‘made by friends and family suggesting
that they had met Kekua are all too coincidental.
The truﬂrabotit the hoax may never be ﬁgured out,

1 but the effects are inevitable and we’ll see how the
NFL feels about either thestupidest man entering

the draft, or the most conniving.

  

10 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MON DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

sports

 

in the numbers
17

The total number of points that the San Francisco.49ers
were down in Sunday’s NFC championship game against
the Atlanta Falcons. The 49ers were down 17-0 at the be-
ginning of the game, came back to pull it to 17-14 by the

end of the first half and ended up winning 28-24.

‘92

The age of Stan ‘The Man’ Musial when he passed away
on Saturday. Musial played for the St. Louis Cardinals for
22 years, starting in 1940 and retiring in 1963. He took a

season off in 1945 to 'serve in the U.S. Navy during WWII. He
held 55 records when he retired and was honored with the

Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2011.

0

The total number of years that Lindsey Hunter has coached
before being named as interim head coachjfor the Phoenix
Suns on Sunday. He replaces Alvin Gentry, who left the or-

’ ganization on Friday. Hunter was the Player Development

Director for the Suns and played in the NBA for 17 years.

.s0apboxf

“I just had a flashback from 2012. It was
maybe 45 minutes shorter, this match,
than the one 12 months ago, but still it
was exciting. I tried to enjoy the moment
and couldn't ask for more. What a match
point...unbelievable. ”

- Novak D okovlc after I ng tennis over 5
hours to efeat Stanls as awrlnka In the
fourth round ofthe Australian Open. He won
1-6, 7-5, 64, 6-7 (5), 12-10. Last r he

Iayed for 5:53 to defeat Rafael adal In the
nals. Djokovlc has won 18in a row atthe

Australian O n, including winning the last two
titles, from PN.com.

“There's so much more that goes into it,
and that’s what people have to realize.
What happens when I leave? Who
becomes the next head coach? What
happens to those players? It's not as
easy as making reservations for dinner.
You’re not just changing your life, but
other people ’s lives.” .

-New Philadelphia Eagles’ Head Coach Chip
Kelly, reiiectin on the dlfﬂcult questions that
he had to cons der while mulling over whether
or not he should leave the Univers of Oregon,
where he used to coach. for the N Kelly,
considered by ma to be the favorite for the
job, had been torn n remaining with

a school atwhich he had had great success,

or leaving the school for the spoils of the
professional ranks.

londeck

Women’s Basketball

nexntxaﬁknn
By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

      
  

1pool,2 records

By Hailey Hartley

s TA F F w R IT E R .
 The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s

swimming teams defeated both Catholic and
Marymount in a home meet that celebrated this
year’s seniors.

Two pool records were set during
the meet: Rick Sykes broke the 50m
freestyle record with a time of 20.50
and the women’s 200-yard medley re-
lay team swam in a time of 1:52.08.
Stephanie Foster, Sarah Schaffer, Car-
oline Hamp and Izzy Brassﬁeld made
up the record-breaking women’s relay
team.

Both teams took home ﬁrst place
ﬁnishes in several events, including
the men’s 200-yard medley relay team
made up of Wayde Marsh, Wesley
Sigmon, Brennan Haley and Sykes.
Other winners included Kelly Mae
Ross and Alex Cram in the 1000-yard
freestyle events, and Delaney Rolfe
and Tyler Gehrs in the 200-yard free-
style. Altogether the men’s team had
11 ﬁrst place ﬁnishes, while the wom-
en’s team had ten.

Both teams will be swimming at
VMI next weekend, Saturday the
26th. The meet is scheduled to begin
at 1 p.m.

Racquetball enthusiasts across campus are
competing against each other in a ladder chal-
lenge all winter term.

Although this is not the ﬁrst time Washing-
ton and Lee hosts a recreational sports ladder,
“it is the ﬁrst time the ladder lives on Sakai,”
explained Assistant Professor of Physics Dan
Mazilu. Registration, scores and rankings are
all conveniently managed online.

Furthermore, self-scheduled ladders offer
flexibility, a necessity to University students
and faculty. Mazilu reports that participants
challenge any player within two ranks of his
own position at a minimum of one racquet-
ball match per two weeks. Within 10 days of
issuing the challenge, the competitors must
complete their match. All matches follow
USRA rules. Afterward, results are sent to
Mazilu who updates Sakai and sends emails
ofthe competitors’ progress to all participants.
Matches conclude Apr. 5 'and ﬁnal standings
are published the following day.

Mazilu started the racquetball ladder sim-
ply out of love for the game. “I ﬁnd it’s not
nearly as popular as it deserves,” he adds.
Registration is ongoing, and over a
dozen students and faculty members
already participate. Many more——
especially women—are encouraged
to come out and play. So, anyone
interested in a friendly racquet-
 ,_ ball competition this winter
 ’ term should please Contact Dan

 Mazilu at mazilud@wlu.
edu for registration and

 
   
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   

    

'-~'-'4-»._-' » 1. .

\

!v1[:r.2ﬂr- " 7

Gen n 1e s top
By Bailey Russell 
STAFF WRITER 
Coming off a solid win over Sophomore guard Javon Mc-
-Emory & Henry on Monday - Donald added nine points, two
night, Washington and Lee men’s if rebounds and an assist off the
basketball returned to the War- bench. ,
ner Center to face Old Dominion W&L began the second half 4’
Athletic Conference rival Roa- with a 34-33 lead, but the Ma- 
- noke. The Generals were able to roons scored the ﬁrst six points 
‘hold Roanoke to 12 second-half of the second to take a 39-34 V
‘points on their way to a 61-48 lead with 15:10 remaining in the
victory. game.
or Senior forward J.D. Ey got his »,_, Head coach Adam Hutchinson
third double-double of the season [5 called time-out for the Generals,
.1 with 15 points (6 of 10 from the and the team returned with 10
’ ﬁeld) and 11 rebounds. Addition— '‘ of the next 12 points, capped by
ally he had ﬁve steals, four blocks a three-pointer by junior guard
and two assists to lead the Gener- Kevin Gill, to regain an advan-
, als (8-8, 3-4 ODAC). tage (44-41) with 9:52 left to go.
The score was tied at  at ,W&L kept the lead, as the Gen- ‘
the 13:56 mark, after the teams U erals ﬁnished the game on a 17-7
traded baskets to start the game. ' run.
W&L went on a l3-2 stretch to ‘ For the game, W&L shot 21-
gain the lead with 8:30 left in the of-54 from the ﬁeld and 6-for-20
half. Five Generals scored dur- from long distance. W&L shot i7
ing the run," including layups by more free throws than Roanoke,
Ey (twice), junior forward Larry‘ , but only converted on 13-of-23.
Whitaker, ﬁrst-year forward An-
drew Franz and junior forward
Drew Kimberly.
/ Roanoke rebounded from the
double-digit deﬁcit by out-scor-.
iing the Gennies, 23-12, in the
gﬁnal eight minutes of the half to
7pull within one, 34-33, heading
0 into the break.
, Franz joined Ey in double
' ﬁgures for the Generals with 15
,5 points. Franz also grabbed sev- ‘3‘.=‘*‘
en boards and tallied one steal. -

         
     
       
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 

 

  
 

Thursday Sunday

at York 7 pm

Wednesday Saturday

vs Roanoke 7 pm at RM 4 Pm

Men's Basketball

at RM 7 pm at Va-Wes 2 pm 3

Swimming‘

at VMI 1 pm

Track and Field

at Denison 1 pm

Wrestling

vs Johns Hopkins 12 pm
vs NYU 12 pm

 

 

 

 

A SPORTS / page 7

Walalcwfmn. I

On assignment, Josh White spentthe

night channeling Thoreau. ,‘

A&L/ page

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY - A ~ ~  

  THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 28,2013

BY TH

E STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXVll,NUMBER13

W&L experiences ﬂu outbreak

By Andrea Owen
STAFF warren

W&L has met the criteria for a “ﬂu out-
break” this month, said Dr. Jane Horton.

According to Horton, Director of Stu-
dent Health and Counseling Services, I5
to 17 percent, or 160, ofthis months 932
Student Health Center visits had been for
inﬂuenza-like illness as of Friday. This
percentage is about double what the
community has seen. .

Horton said that the 100 doses of ﬂu

vaccine the SHC had at the beginning of
the term were gone within the ﬁrst week,
much quicker than usual at this time of
year

“I think there was much more interest
at the beginning of winter term because
of what was happening nationally,” said
Horton.

Horton said that CVS and the Rock-

 

A’:

bridge Area Health Center still sell ﬂu

 

shots, although it does take 2 weeks for
the vaccination to build up immunity.

“We encouraged [getting ﬂu vaccines]
in the fall so people would have time to
build up immunity,” said Horton.

However, the SHC does its best to help
those with the ﬂu and protect those who
are well.

Horton said that the SHC uses Tamiﬂu,
an antiviral medication, for those who
already have ﬂu symptoms or have been
exposed and have not been vaccinated.

The SHC also uses isolative measures.

“We encourage roommates who are

The Student Health Center is an outlet for students w
to stay away from other students and use the beds in the health center.

sick to come down and stay with us to
avoid exposing a well roommate,” said
Horton, who also said that a student with
a sick roommate may choose to stay with
a friend until the roommate is off medi-
cation and without fever for 24 hours.

“We are asking [sick] people to get
their friends~a ﬂu buddy—to get them
meals to go, rather than coming and ex-
posing those people in the dining hall,”
continued Horton.

Sick students can ﬁll out the brief
“Sick Meals” form on the W&L website
to let their “ﬂu buddy” pick up a meal

ith flu-like symptoms. sick students are asked

ANDREA OWEN/ Staff Writer

for them.

A “ﬂu buddy” is asked to wear aimask
around their sick friend. The SHC em-
ployees use these masks themselves
whenever they are around people with
inﬂuenza-like symptoms and ask these
sick students to wear them whenever
they are in public.

More information about ﬂu buddies,
as well as preventing and ﬁghting the
ﬂu, may be found at the W&L website’s
Health Library.

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

While many students choose to study
abroad during the fall or winter terms
of the school year, others are restricted
from that option as a result of their ma-
jor’s heavy course load. W&L sponsors
several summer study abroad programs
to make study abroad a viable option for
all students.

One popular summer study abroad
experience is the Virginia Program at
Oxford. The summer school program is
run through St. Anne’s College at Ox-
ford University in England. According
to Associate Professor of English Holly
Pickett, VPO is a six-week study ofthe
literature and history of Renaissance
England. Students earn three credits in
both history and English that they can
use to fulﬁll FDR requirements. ‘

Senior Jillian Oyama participated in
VPO because she felt that studying at
Oxford would provide her with the most
in-depth understanding of English his-
tory and literature. ,

.“I wanted to go to Oxford because I

wanted to have a study abroad experi\

ence that would fully immerse me in
what I was studying,” said Oyama. “And
I had always wanted to go to England,
so this seemed like the perfect opportu-
nity.”

Junior Sarah Williams was attracted to
VPO because the courses satisfy W&L’s
FDR requirements. '

Said Williams: “As a dual’-idegree stu-
dent, I’m required to have 140 credits
rather than the typical 1 I3. Going abroad
in the summer rather than the school
year enabled me to garner extra credits
I would have otherwise needed to over-
load to get.”

By studying at Oxford, students get a
taste of the English college class struc-
ture, which, according to wlu.edu, com-
bines daily lectures and weekly tutorials.
Oyama explained that the tutorial classes
consisted of three students who were led
in discussion by a tutor.

“During tutorials we would have an

I - Students take f

intellectual battle basically, which re-
ally forces you to think and develop your
ideas thoroughly, and often on the spot,”
said Oyama.

An additional unique aspect of the
program is that students from multiple
Virginia colleges and universities par-
ticipate and study all together at Oxford.
Both Williams and Oyama agreed that
this was one of their favorite parts of
their experience abroad.

“I was able to form friendships with

light in summer study

Academic Exchange Service, DAAD.
This summer, DAAD is offering W&L’s
Research Internships in Science and En-
gineering program, known as RISE. The
RISE program is geared toward students
majoring in the sciences and will send
students to research institutions through-
out Germany. Although the program is
in Germany, students are not required to
speak German.

According to wlu.edu, "RISE partici-
pants work with a post doctorate scien-

receive a scholarship as a stipend for
their living expenses.

German Professor Paul Youngman,
who is new to W&L’s campus this year,
is W&L’s DAAD ambassador. As the
DAAD Ambassador, Youngman is the
point of reference for students interested
in applying for this summer’s RISE pro-
gram. Youngman’s job is to spread the
word about opportunities in Germany
for both students and faculty.

As a new faculty member, Youngman

W&L students and faculty participate in the Virginia Program at Oxford. Pictured left to right: Jillian

 

Oyama ’13, Chris Schneck ’12, Eric Gehman ’13, Professor Holly Pickett and Kyle McGinnis ’12.

people from colleges all over Virginia
that I typically wouldn’t have met,” Wil-
liams said.

Another summer study abroad oppor-
tunity is available through The German

tist in Max-Planck-Institutes, which are
free standing research institutions. Un-
dergraduates gain hands-on lab experi-
ence and are exposed to Germany’s sci-
ence social network. RISE participants

wants more members of the W&L com-
munity to be aware of his role within the
DAAD. Youngman became involved
with the DAAD about ﬁve years ago. He
was approached because he has had ex-

tensive experience working in Germany.

“I think a lot of students don’t under-
stand why they need to go see someone
in the German department for this, but
I’ve been working a lot with scientists so
that’s why I’m connected to the DAAD,”
Youngman said.

Outside of the DAAD, Youngman also
works with another study abroad pro-
gram called AmCham and he is promot-
ing it for the ﬁrst time this year at W&L.
It is designed for business, engineering,
physics and computer science majors.
AmCham provides participants with
paid internship experience at a German
company.

“AmCham was started by a,German
lawyer in Atlanta. He decided that he
was a little frustrated with the state of
German study in the US, so he combined
the US Chamber of Commerce and the
German Chamber of Commerce to pro-
mote business and German as a lan-
guage,” Youngman said.

According to Youngman, because Am-
Cham internships exist in the private
sector and require more social interac-
tion, students must be a double major
in German and one of the business or
mentioned science majors in order to
participate.

Youngman said he hopes that AmCham
will be successful at W&L, but said ‘it
is difﬁcult to ﬁnd students who double
major in both German and business.‘ He
has seen more overlap in the majors like
chemistry, biology and other sciences,
which are better suited for the RISE pro-
gram.

Applications for the RISE program are
due I an. 31 and applications for VPO are
due Feb. 15.

“It’s all totally worth it — if for no other
reason than making connections with
people for future opportunities,” Young-
man said. '

 

  

UNIVERSITY LEBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE Ui‘iiVERSlTY

LE)§li‘\lGTON, VA 24450
«Wit 3 0 2013 . .

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

new

 

  Potential

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Last Tuesday in the Science Center,
Courtney A. Peckens, a Ph. D. candidate
in civil and environmental engineering

. at the University of Michigan, delivered

a lecture entitled, “Highly Compressive
Real-time Sensing Nodes for Structural
Monitoring Application based on Co-
chlea-Inspired Design.”

in other words, Peckens explored the
functionality of a low-power sensor node
as demonstrated on a structural monitor-
ing application.

Using sensing and data integration by
the biological nervous system, Peckens
plans to make great improvements in data
management and overall energy con-
sumption in engineered systems.

“In an age of a crumbling U.S. infra-
structure, the upkeep and maintenance of
bridges is a challenge worth undertaking
in an innovative, scientiﬁc fashion,”_ she
said.

zerland and the Tamar Bridge in Saltash,
England employ this structural monitor-
ing system.

When installing this system, one must
choose between wired and wireless moni-
toring. The advantages of the latter seem
to greatly outweigh those of the former.

Wireless monitoring installs at a low
cost, deploys dense networks of sensors
and is capable of parallel processing. The
J indo Bridge in South Korea and the New
Carqinuez Bridge in California are the
latest bridges to be installed with wireless
monitoring.

Whether wired or wireless, however,
the sensing system is not without its limi-
tations. ‘

“There is an inherent delay in the sys-
tem due to conversions between analog
and digital domains,” said Peckens. “The
system requires a reliable power source.”

Biological systems, according to Peck-

in biensing

ilar membrane, Peckens is converting the
magnitude of the vibrations of bridges to
electrical pulses.

Utilizing an Optimal Filter Bark De-
sign, Peckens’ goal is clear.

“My colleagues and I hope to mini-
mize signal distortion incurred through
frequency decomposition,” said Peck-
ens. To do so, Peckens has constructed
modular, low-power and low-cost neural
sensing units.

Using a test bed at Pusan National Uni-
versity in South Korea, researchers have
tested Peckens’ technology by applying
an input signal to shake the table as a
bridge might be rocked by an earthquake.
The bridge was unharmed.

“A stack of sensors monitored respons-
es to the breach in the structure,” said
Peckens. “The information was resent
to a centralized location, where human
intelligence immediately prompted and

What remained of the I-35W Mississippi River Bridge in Minneapolis after it collapsed in 2007. The
collapse could have been prevented by Peckens’ biologically-inspired sensing nodes.

Peckens proposed using a structural
monitoring system, in which a bridge is
maintained by a sensing system which
acquires data, which is ultimately pro-
cessed by an end user. In turn, the end
user reverses the process, sending evalu-
ations of the data all the way back to the
sensing system, thereby “teaching” the
system how to respond to new data.

The Stork Bridge in Winterthur, Swit-

ens, can offer a potential solution.

Drawing inspiration from signal pro-
cessing techniques used by the central
nervous system, Peckens is exploring the
use of biology for the next generation of
sensuators and actuators.

By engineering the same process that
occurs when the cochlea, in the human
auditory system, interprets a sound wave
through mechanical vibrations of the bas-

thereafter taught the monitors how to cor-
rect the problem.”

In summary, Peckens proposes the
widespread use of a sensing unit that uti-
lizes the mechanisms employed by the
biological functions of the human audi-
tory system.

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Rebel Errtr_ean soldiers call for release of
political prisoners

Rebel Eritrean soldiers sieged the Information Ministry on Monday calling
for a release of all political prisoners in the state. After some negotiating it seems
that the mutineers have surrendered. Reports released on Tuesday stated that the
capital of Asmara was “calm” again. However, many ofﬁcials remain unclear as
to the details of the negotiation.

New law for Morocmn women’s rights

After many protests and demonstrations, women’s rights groups in Morocco
were happy to see the first step taken towards ending violence against women.
A new law was passed on Tuesday ending the law that stated rapists could avoid
charges by marrying their victims. This reform comes a year after a rape victim
committed suicide when she was forced to marry her attacker.

Explosions in Baghdad

Three separate explosions occurred on Tuesday in and around Baghdad. The
ﬁrst occurred near an army base outside the city when a suicide bomber drove
past in a car packed with explosives. Two other car bombs went off that day. ‘At
least 17 are reported dead and another 50 wounded.

U.S. expands North Korea sanctions

On Thursday the United States recently expanded sanctions /against North
Korea and denounced their ongoing nuclear testing. The UN followed with their
own set of stricter sanctions against the state. On Friday, in the wake of this in-
temational tension, North Korea threatened to attack South Korea if they support
the UN sanctions.

Feminisl_:s rotest outside World
Economic orum

Ukrainian feminist activists protested outside the World Economic Forum in
Swiss resort of Davos. The activists were from the group Femen. The topless
women set off ﬂares while trying to cross a security fence. They claimed that
the Forum, which ﬁnally drew to a close on Saturday, was not presenting the
interests of women.

Protests in Baku

Protesters gathered in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, on Saturday. The pro-
test was sparked by a similar demonstration in a small northern town earlier in
the week. Protesters called for the resignation of the current president, llham
Aliyev. Police came quickly to the scene and arrested about 40 of the protesters.

Czech Republic elects new president

‘ Milos Zeman is the new president of the Czech Republic, bringing in at least
54.8% of the vote on Saturday. His victory is the result of the ﬁrst direct elec-
tion within the country and ends the ten-year presidency of Vaclav Klaus. EU
ofﬁcials are conﬁdent that Zeman will take more of a pro-European stance than
his predecessor.

French and Malian forces fight to push out
rebels

French and Malian forces continue their ﬁght attempting to push rebel forces
out of the northern part of Mali. The troops were under attack early Saturday but
by that afternoon had captured the rebel stronghold of Gao. No ofﬁcial report on
casualties has been released. The liberation forces allowed for the return of the
town’s mayor who had previously ﬂed to Bamako.

NY investment

By Douglas McNie|
STAFF WRITER

On March 13 20 Washington and Lee
sophomores will depart for New York
City for the New York Investment Trip.
The Trip lasts through Saturday March
16.

The students will have the opportunity
to visit big name ﬁrms such as Wells
Fargo, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, J. P.

mercial real estate. They will get to meet
with Washington and Lee alumni at each
of the 12 ﬁrms. They will also attend an
alumni reception wither over 50 former
generals who currently call New York
City home.

Jensen said highly recommends the
trip. He said he has proof that not only

“There is no doubt there is a correlation between

going on this trip and gaining success in thejob

market. ”

JOHN JENSEN, Assistant Dean of the Williams School ‘
 

Morgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, De-
loitte, Ernst & Young LLP, New York

Stock Exchange, Morgan Stanley, Mar--

cus & Millichap and Bank of America;
and will hopefully gain a better under-
standing if the world of Investment
banking is right for them.

According to John Jensen, Assistant
Dean of the Williams School, as sopho-
more and junior year internships are
becoming more important the trip has
switched from seniors looking for a post
college career to younger students look-
ing for advice and potentially summer
internships.

The students will visit 12 ﬁrms rang-
ing from to investment banking to com-

is the trip informative but it is also lu-
crative.

Nine students who attended the trip
last year will be interning at ﬁrms they
visited this summer and two students
from last year interned in a commercial

‘real estate ﬁrm they visited last summer.

“There is no doubt there is a corre-
lation between going on this trip and
gaining success in the job market,” said,
Jensen.

Jensen wants to emphasize that being a
Williams School Major is not a require-
ment for the trip. The skills needed to
succeed in ﬁnance or similar industries
are not only learned in Williams School
majors. He cites himself as an example.

3'55‘

trip lauches careers

  

Jensen was a History major at Wash-
ington and Lee University and he later
went to spend ten years working on Wall

Street.

1:. l

 

 

sign up sheet located outside Jensen’s

Students interested in applying for the oﬂice in‘Huntley Hall.

trip should sign up by February 8 on the

   

 

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28,2013

(

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

opinions

 

. The Red Lin

By Yates Wilburn
STAF F W R ITER

While the UN Security Council
(UNSC) has been largely a non-factor
in the brutal violence of the Syrian Civil
War as a whole, the council’s individual
members have played signiﬁcant roles
outside the organization for better or for
worse. While each of the P5 has brought
something to the table in an effort to re-
solve this situation for their own favor—
whether that involves Bashir al-Assad
in power or not—the United States has
made the most effort and effected the
most change in terms of international
action on Syria, hoping to ride the wave

- of the Arab Spring and knock over a bel-

ligerent dictator and constant ally to Iran
and its proxies. Regardless of its inten-
tions or efforts, the United States has
repeatedly allowed challenges to its nu-
merous “red lines” go unanswered. This
conﬂict has taken tens of thousands of
lives and has once again put the inade-
quacies of the UNSC and uncompromis-
ing multi-lateralism in the spotlight.

How did it get this bad?

The United States’ current position

resulted from failed attempts at peace‘

ever since the violence began almost
two years ago. Previous efforts to stop
the violence failed primarily due to the
resilient protection of al-Assad by Rus-
sia and China from any meaningful and
real action from the UNSC. Primarily
motivated by economic investments in
the form of arms sales (China) and a lone
friendly Mediterranean port following
the Cold War (Russia), these P5 mem-
bers have done all but publicly encour-
age al-Assad to continue slaughtering his
people. In the case of Russia, al-Assad
receive direct assistance in the form of

helicopter gunships and a half-hearted,
later aborted Spetsnaz landing in June
of 2012. While China hasn’t even pre-
tended to have an idea for peace, Russia
offered to act as a mediator between the
two sides early in the conﬂict provided
al-Assad stayed in power. Later, as that
became a lost cause, Russia offered al-
Assad a safe haven in Russia should he
decide to jump ship. All things consid-
ered, this would probably be a favorable
and practical alternative to other efforts
both past and present to end the war.
American eﬂforts at conﬂict resolu-
tion have taken the form of the “Friends
of Syria” international diplomatic task
force that has successfully managed to
isolate al-Assad, his family, and inner
circle from most of the outside world
ﬁnancially, and has put incredible pres-
sure on their remaining international
allies Russia and China. This effort
was the culmination of the multiple
failed attempts to halt the violence in
Syria through peace deals and consider-
ably mild resolutions via the UNSC (in
both February and July of 2012), Arab
League, and European Union. More
speciﬁcally, the US organized this effort
during the implementation and assumed
failure of the UN-Arab League peace
plan (UNSC Resolution 2043) put into
action in April of 2012 under the guid-
ance of Koﬁ Annan. Designed to act to
stop the violence, the US put together
this body of over 90 nations follow-
ing even a denouncement resolution in
the UNSC. Through this body, member
states have been able to coordinate ac-
tions against Syria outside the UN and
the inﬂuence of Russia and China. With

They asked, "How are you?” ,

. (Doeyou actually- care hoviil am?)-

I replied, "Good, how are you?” 

(I’minot very well, though. And I-don't truly care

about your well-being.) I I ‘ "p I '

. ' Sometimes, we don't really mean it. My" thoughts, in
parentheses, might even resemble yours at times.

Once I asked someone, "I-low are you?” They replied,

"Good, how are you??,’ I res
-"Good, howlare you?” ;
~ . I, and maybe even

By Anna Brodsky
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF RUSSIAN

To the Editors,

I write to correct an error‘ in your sto-
ry “Lee-Jackson Day Flags a Tradition,”
(January 21, 2013, p. 2). There, your re-
porter incorrectly refers to a controversy
over the “traditional ﬂying of Confeder-
acy-related ﬂags for the [Lee-Jackson]
holiday in Lexington.” In fact, there

never was a tradition of ﬂying Confed—‘

erate ﬂags from the city ﬂagpoles. It
has been the traditional annual practice

_ that on Lee-Jackson Day, private groups

four meetings so far, the coalition has
been the most coherent effort to halt the
violence so far.

In addition, the United States helped
facilitate the election of a uniﬁed leader-
ship of the military and political wings
of the countless rebel groups operating
in Syria, bringing what was a disorga-
nized rabble of ﬁghters and activists—
each with their own goals—under one
united command as the Syrian National
Coalition. This group only came togeth-
er at the urging of the US, who refused
to recognize the Syrian National Council
as the legitimate government of Syria,
with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
criticizing it as a body made up of people
who “have in many instances not been in
Syria for 20, 30, or 40 years,” calling on
a new group to be formed with represen-
tatives from the frontlines being present
before any recognition could be given.
The Obama Administration feared that
demanding anything less would risk a
repeat of Iraq, where recognition and re-
liance upon a similar body of expatriates
made a complete mess of any transition
and left the United States running the
government of the country for several
years before even a provisional govern-
ment could be put into place. This de-
mand motivated the SNC to ﬁnally put
aside their disagreements with other
rebel factions and unite, allowing more
aid, weapons, and political support to be
given by the international community.

In the futureeaside from the obvious
concern of continued violence by tradi-
tional means—the United States must
concern itself with the considerable
stockpile of chemical and biological
weapons possessed by al-Assad and his
military, as he grows more desperate. As
President Obama, Sec. of State Clinton
and many others in the US government
have wamed, the use of these weapons
is a “red line.” While ‘there have been
many other “red lines” drawn in the sand
during this war by the same people, this
one must be completely unbreakable.

The ﬁnal “red line” has been drawn
at chemical weapons, a possibility that
looks more and more realistic with each
passing day. Now, this country is in a
situation where action is not only an op-
tion, but also the only option. There is no
more bluff al-Assad can call. Allowing
the use of these weapons and respond-
ing with anything less than devastating
retribution against Assad and his forces
would be‘ setting a horrifying precedent
that future tyrants will look to as they
carry out violence against their people.
Military intervention (at the very least
one that is limited to securing said weap-
ons) in such a contingency must not “be
on the table,” nor should it be a “threat,”
it should be an unquestioned promise the
United States must be prepared to follow
through with.

p‘onc_led withoutfthinking, _ ‘

‘you,.ought :tol_bé more sincere. "

 A  By’ Graham Cotton A

“ §EAD COPYEDITUR

. to the editor

assemble in Lexington to parade down
Main Street and carry the Confederate
ﬂag. That was an unobjectionable exer-
cise of their First Amendment rights.

In 2011, however, a private group
insisted that the City of Lexington was
obligated to ﬂy Confederacy-related
ﬂags from municipal property. That
amounted to serious over-reaching. Far
from exercising their free~speech rights,
the private group in effect argued that
others, too,--all the citizens of Lexing-
ton, in fact—- had to send their message

for them, by ﬂying their ﬂag from city-
owned property. Nothing in the First
Amendment requires that. It would be a
crazy world where private groups got to
dictate to cities what they had to display
on municipal property.

Your reporter quotes Brandon Dors-
ey, commander of the Stonewall Bri-
gade Camp, who claims that opponents
of forcing Lexington to ﬂy the Confed-
erate ﬂag from its ﬂagpoles are “older,
afﬂuent, liberal, white people.” I can
assure you that it is not simply aﬂluent

esof Friendship

 

By Marc Conner
ENGLISH DEPARTMENT CHAIR

Dear Ring Tum Phi,

I was pleased to see. Krysta Hu-
ber’s article in the January 14 edition
about the “quirky” courses being of-
fered in the W&L Spring Term. The
range and unique nature of our Spring
Term courses is garnering national at-
tention, and everywhere I go in aca-
demic circles, people want to know
more about the Spring Term, how we
work it, what the courses are like, how
it is for students and faculty. I think
one of the great things we have going
with the Spring Term is the contrast it
gives us with our long terms—going
from the steady, intense pace of the
12-week fall and winter terms, into the
fully immersed, downright wild pace of
the 4-week Spring Term, offers a varia-
tion and a change that I ﬁnd energizing.
Today’s students are SO active and SO
busy, doing classes, service work, being
involved in church and community, ath-
letics, student leadership, and an active
social life, that the academic year can
seem overwhelming at times. How won-
derful, then, in the Spring Term to focus
on one thing and only one thing, a trans-

whites who opposed the measure. When
collecting signatures to oppose the ﬂy-
ing of Confederate ﬂags from municipal
property, I spoke to a lot of people from
a broad racial and economic spectrum:
many of them told me that they felt in-
censed and threatened by seeing the
Confederacy related ﬂags waving from
the city’s ﬂagpoles.

The city has now passed an ordinance
limiting the ﬂags to be ﬂown from Lex-
ington ﬂagpoles to the ﬂags of the Unit-
ed States and the State of Virginia. That

editor

formative course that engages the mind
and spirit in such rich and provocative
ways as does “The Physics of Music,” or
studying Moby Dick on a whaling ship,
or computer forensics, or the chemistry
of cooking (in Italyl). One other point
that bears emphasis, as we approach
registration: as with any academic term,
not every student will get her ﬁrst choice
for a Spring Term course—and this can
seem especially tough with the Spring
Term, when that one unique course isn’t
available. But our studies of student
experience in the Spring Term tell us
that 98% of the students end up “very
satisﬁed” with the class they eventually
end up with, even if it wasn’t their ﬁrst
choice—98%! That’s a success rate that
is virtually unheard-of in such a ma-
jor academic initiative. It’s testament
to how many great courses our faculty
have created for this dynamic, and truly
“W&L,” Spring Term.

Marc C. Conner

Ballengee Professor of English
Chair, Department of English
Director of the Spring Term

does not prevent private groups from
exercising their First Amendment rights.
And, in fact, in the two years since the
enactment of the ordinance, private
groups have assembled on Lee-Jackson
Day to carry their ﬂags and send their
message.

Anna Brodsky
Associate Professor Russian

 

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&life

 

M O N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

May the foods be ever flavorful:

By Graham Colton
HEAD copv EDITOR

From 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. last Satur-
day in Evans Dining Hall, the Multicul-
tural Student Association (MSA) hosted
its ﬁrst annual Hungry Games, a cook-
ing competition where three judges as-
sessed the presentation, originality and
taste of the cultural food creations of
eight teams.

The team of Kennedy Castillo ’16,
Oyumaa Daichinkhuu ’16 and Karen
Villarroel ’ 16 were awarded the top
prize of a $75 Walmart gift card for their
ripe plantain casserole.

For their candied yams and deviled
eggs, Randl Dent ’ l 5 and Candace May-
nard ’l5 ﬁnished in second place and
took home a $50 Walmart gift card.

And in third place, taking off with
a $25 Walmart gift card for “Sandy
Beach,” a version of pineapple fried
rice, were Christy Cui ’ 14, Ginny Huang
’l4, Wenda Tu ’l4 and Cathy Wang ’15.

Lest you think that the ﬁrst place team
simply whipped up a ripe plantain casse-
role out of thin air, let it be known that
they had to overcome their fair share of
adversity to bring home the blue ribbon.

“Finding a kitchen was really hard,”
lamented Castillo. “First, we wanted to
work in Hillel, but that didn’t ‘work be-
cause this dish has beef and dairy. And
then [the] other dorms’ kitchens were
occupied.”

But Castillo and company kept faith.

With some help, Castillo and compa-
ny chopped, cured and caramelized their
way into culinary celebrity. “We cooked
in the I-House, so thanks to some people
in the I-House who made this possible,”
acknowledged Castillo.

Second-to-best and crestfallen was
the dynamic duo of Dent and Maynard.
Maynard, visibly upset yet admirably
willing to be interviewed, defended her-
team’s dish.

“We really wanted to capture some—‘
thing that’s Southern, something that
captured the African-American com-
munity, but something that everyone,
regardless of where you’re from,’ could
enjoy,” Maynard said. “The candied

9

let the Hungry Games begin

Pictured above: Kennedy Castillo ’16, Karen Villarroel ’16 and Oyumaa Daichinkhuu ’16 pose with their first prize-winning plate, ripe
plantain casserole, at the first annual Hungry Games hosted by the Multicultural Student Assocation this past Sunday.

yams were sweet, but they also had a
lot of ﬂavor. And with the deviled eggs,
that was a good combination.”

Despite just falling short of the top
spot, their bone-stickin,’ tongue-lickin,’
down-home Southern sustenance really
hit the proverbial spot, in the opinion
of myself and many other foodies inter-
viewed.

And last but certainly not least was
“Sandy Beach,” the tropical take on clas-
sic fried rice, brought to you by Cathy
Wang and her gang. But who would

have known how to turn a plain ol’ Asian
dish into such a crowd-pleasing hit?

Mom, of course. Cui explained: “It
was a homemade dish that my mom
made. She sent me the recipe, I looked
at the picture, and it looked fun.”

The recipe really can’t be found any-
where else. “It comes from a little island
in China,” Cui clariﬁed. “People there,
they eat a lot of tropical fruit. Pine-
apple’s one of them, and it tastes really
good.”

The Hungry Games started, as Presi-

dent Jillian Oyama ’l3 opined, “because
MSA is kind ofseen as the minority club
a lot of the time. But one of my goals
as President is to get rid of that impres-
sion because I want it to be a blending of
cultures. Cooking is a great way to do
that because every culture has food. We
were originally deciding to have a pot-
luck, but we thought it would be more
interesting to make it a competition, so
that way we could bring in a Dean, too.”

Dean David M. Leonard, his wife

I Cindy and Oyama served as judges for

the Hungry Games.

In addition to the teams listed above,
fellow competitors were: Kendre Barnes
’ l 3 and Hannah Esqueda ’ 13, who made
fajitas and horchata; Jordan Edgren ’l5
and Deirdre Tobin ’ l 5, sticky toffee
pudding; Thomas Groesbeck ’ 14, Cuban
crushed potatoes; David McKennon ’ l4,
clubhouse chicken squares; and Lauren
Mosely ’ I5, taco pie.

Students make 25th annual Lip Sync a smashing success

By Lindsey Burke
snxrr warren

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

LINDSEY BURKE
HENDLEY BADCOCK
ATHENA CAO
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEYRUSSELL
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

ANNA BRODSKY
MARC CONNER

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
KANE THOMAS
JONATHAN SELLS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty. parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead todiscovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board,
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise lndependent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to editsubmissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

which can be reached at

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Every year, Students Against Rock-
bridge Area Hunger (SARAH) hosts
a danc.e competition fundraiser at the
school’s Pavilion. This time around, con-
testants from different sororities, frater-
nities, and the student dance group, The
Klazics, choreographed and performed
dances in front of the crowd.

Senior President of SARAH Perry
Given served as the main announcer of
the event, by introducing each dance
group on stage. With the help of junior
Vice President Christopher lves, the two
made it possible for a smooth show.

The entry fees for the audience and
the entering groups formed the proceeds
that SARAH donates to the Rockbridge
Area Relief Association (RARA) and the
Glasgow Food Pantry.

“These proceeds are one step forward
in ﬁghting against local hunger,” said
Sam Campbell, Co-Sophomore Chair for
SARAH. .

This year, the judges were three of
the school’s very own faculty members.
For each dance, the judges indicated
to Campbell and Brett Bauer, the other
Co-Sophomore Chair, when to “gong” a
group off stage. At the end of the night,

the judges were responsible for naming
the winners.

“Essentially, the groups are trying to
win the crowd’s vote as well as thejudg-
es’ vote,” said Campbell.

Freshman participant Claire Towns-
ley commented on the judging process.
Said Townsley, “The show was judged
fairly and accurately, keeping the com-
petition entertaining and civil.”

Groups this year ranged from the
cheetah-themed to nineties throwbacks
to boys in cut-off jean shorts. However,
every dance was kept sufﬁciently appro-
priate for the faculty and kids that came
to watch the event.

The Klazics came out with yet anoth-
er crowd-pleasing performance. How-
ever, Kappa Alpha Theta ﬁnished up on
top this year, followed by Chi Omega at
second place and Chi Psi at third.

“It wasa fun way to bond with my
sisters while supporting a great cause,”
said freshman Sarah Schaffer, a member
of the winning Theta group. “Winning
wasjust an added bonus, because we put
so much work into our dance.”

Last year, SARAH raised around
$8,000 through the event.

It .11.

According to Campbell,
aimed'to surpass those numbers this
year. This goal was reached by Thursday,
when sales were already comparatively
higher than the previous year. Over 200
tickets were sold before the event, and

numbers were raised even higher with

door ticket sales.

“It was great to see so many people
involved for such a great cause and for
a night of fun,” said freshman partici-
pant Katie Wildes. “The upperclassmen
that came were sosupportive and really
encouraged the freshman up there to do
their best and have a good time.”

  

Congratulations!

1st Place:
Kappa Alpha Theta

2nd Place:
Chi Omega

3d Place:

Chi Psi

SARAH .

   

Pictured above: The members of the winning Kappa Alpha Theta team smile and pose for the camera
after the Lip Sync last Friday night, a highly successful event which raised over $8000 for charity.

I

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

Nothing tastes better than a hearty
bowl of soup, especially after the cold
weather this past week. Except maybe
twenty cups of soup. And no, that‘s not
an exaggeration.

This past Sunday, Campus Kitchen at
Washington and Lee hosted an all-you-
can-eat local fundraiser, creatively titled
the Souper Bowl, where twelve Lexing-
ton restaurants serve a variety of soups
in Evans Dining Hall from 1 1 am-2 pm.

Plenty of businesses were offering
their best soups: The Red Hen, Lexing-
ton Golf and Country Club, the F.-Cafe’,
Full Circle Catering, and many other
nearby eateries were there. From chili
to lobster bisque to chicken and rice, the

multitude of soups was incredible. My
personal favorite was the sweet potato
and chicken from The Bistro, but all of
them were delicious (and yes, I tried ev-
erysingle one).

The ﬁrst ever Souper Bowl put a new
spin on fundraising. For students, the
suggested donation price was only ten
dollars — quite a bargain for eating ‘until
you explode, especially since the pro-
ceeds went to charity. The earnings will
beneﬁt the Weekend Backpack Program.
a program dedicated to eliminating local
child hunger.

Through school lunch programs,
most children are guaranteed breakfast
and lunch, Monday through Friday.

However, when the weekend arrives, no
such meals are provided. The Backpack
Program was started in 2009 in hopes of
feeding local children on Saturday and
Sunday. Campus Kitchen ﬁlls different
backpacks with at least seven food items
each. then distributes them to the kids in
need every Friday. On Monday mom-
ing, the kids return the backpacks to re-
peat the cycle. _

This program is essential to the Rock-
bridge County education system; many
teachers acknowledge the fact that their
hungry students often struggle to con-
centrate on empty stomachs. At Waddell
Elementary, 20 percent of students re-
ceive a backpack. the lowest percentage

number of the schools involved. In con-
trast, at Natural Bridge Elementary, 64
percent of students receive a backpack,
the highest comparative percentage.

With such an overwhelming need in
the area, I was pleasantly surprised by
the light-hearted and festive atmosphere
at the Souper Bowl. There was live en-
tertainment scheduled throughout the
entire event, thanks to many talented
folks; a cappella groups sang and a few
daring musicians played instruments, in-
cluding a guitarist and a cellist.

The children who participate in the
Backpack Program helped run the event,
serving food and cleaning up, all the
while smiling and chatting. Plenty of

0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&Iife

. CK ren owl Sunday

people attended, from W&L students
and staff to community members and
families. The ﬁrst ever Souper Bowl
was such a smashing success; I ’m keep-
ing my ﬁngers crossed that it will be-
come an annual event.

But it doesn't stop here - Campus
Kitchen can use your help all year round!
lf you want to continue to support the
Backpack Program through donations or
Wednesday afternoon volunteer shifts,
please email Jenny Davidson atjdavz'd-
sor7@w/u.edz1 or check out the Campus
Kitchen website online.

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28,2013

arts&| ife

 

A needed esca

ByJosh White
STAFF WRITER

There are, it seems, a surprising
number of students on campus who are
unaware of one of W&L’s most recent
spectacular additions. That is the Walden
Cabin, located right here on the universi-
ty’s own back campus. The Cabin, built
by Henri Hammond-Paul ‘I2, was based

off the one famously depicted in Henry _

David Thoreau’s Walden.

Last Thursday evening, I decided to
visit the cabin for myself. Although I
hadn’t read Walden yet, I was familiar
with the story, and was eager to get out-
side and experience it for myself.

I packed up my bag at around 12:30
p.m. after ﬁnishing my homework for
the night. I brought two sleeping bags
(due to the "arctic weather forecast), a pil-
low, an extra ﬂashlight to go along with
the lantern provided by the Outing Club,
some scalding hot chocolate, a joumal,
one subpar pen, and some other extrane-
ous camping supplies that always stay in
my pack.

I was given very speciﬁc directions to
the cabin, and if it had been daytime, I
expect it would have been easy to ﬁnd.
Sadly, however, due to the overcast sky
and time of clay, I found myself wander-
ing through the woods as snow came
down in ﬂurries for quite a bit longer
than would have been enjoyable. Trust
me when I say the woods can get quite
eerie when you’re walking around alone
at night. Against all odds, I ﬁnally spot-
ted the cabin through the trees at around

1:30 am, and it was a welcome sight,
indeed. n

The cabin is quaint and peaceful, and
the surrounding wooded area couldn’t
have been chosen more perfectly. At the
entrance, there is a porch and awning
with a wooden rocking chair for quiet
reflection. The cabin itself consists of
just one room and includes a cot in the
corner, a neat hand-powered lantern, a
few windows, and a lock for your peace
of mind after a longjourney in the dark.

I would have liked to sit outside for a
while, but due to the time and tempera-
ture, I had to make some sacriﬁces. Af-
ter snuggling into my doubled-up sleep-
ing bags, I took some time to just sit and
think for a while. The absence of tech-
nology was actually something I hadn’t
experienced yet since coming back from
winter break, and in the middle of a
stressful school week, I couldn’t have
imagined anything better.

Pulling out my journal for a truly
Thoreau-like experience, I began to
write down some of my reﬂections (as
well as a few notes for this article). Un-
fortunately, the ink in my pen was freez-
ing so I didn’t get to write as much as I
would have liked. I checked my handy
thermometer - it was 12° - and realized
the night wasn’t going to turn out to be
as pleasant as I would have liked. After
the pen drew its final breaths, I called it
quits and closed myself into my cocoon.
The ‘chilly weather failed to improve

l
‘i
I‘

_:e

 

ed from getting a solitary experience to
merely not suffering hypothermia.

With that said, I can’t exactly rec-
ommend you to visit the cabin during
a night of such extreme weather, but I
can say that the cabin is deﬁnitely worth

t roug outt e night, an my goa s l - I

.l'7“-H . ~ ~*" 4- .3. -

giving a visit once it gets a littl‘é_warmer
out. 1-, for one, plan on returning in the
spring. If you want to reserve the cabin
for a night, either now or in the future,
you can contact either the Outing Club
or Emily Crawford ‘I4 to schedule a

time and receive further instructions.

W H

pe: night at Walden .

   

  
t is wesome getaway ocate
right on campus, it would be crazy for
you not to take advantage of it at least
once during your four years here, so get

outside!

1»

 

  

 

By Caroline Hamp

STAFF WRITER

The third Monday of January, which
fell on January 21st this year, marks the
celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.’s birthday. It is a national holiday, so
banks, post offices, and public schools
close for the day. And yet, Washington
and Lee’s class schedule forges ahead as
usual.

I heard a million and two complaints
last Monday about how we don’t cel-
ebrate MLK Day and how disrespectful
that was. Let’s be honest, you all just
wanted to get out of classes! Because
we did celebrate MLK Day, and in a big
way: Terrence Roberts, one of the Little
Rock Nine, spoke in Lee Chapel on Sun-
day evening in honor of King.

V The Little Rock Nine was a group of
nine African-American students who, in
1957, were enrolled in Little Rock Cen-
tral High School in hopes of initiating
gradual integration. It was a huge step
forward for the American people and the
Civil Rights Movement. Segregation
and racism had been openly practiced
since 1619, dominating American cul-
ture since the intentional implementa-
tion of enslavement.

“If you practice something for 335
years, you tend to get good at it. We, the
American people, had become practiced
at discrimination,” explained Roberts.

So, after 335 years of segregation,
how is direct and forceful integration
handled? With a lot of anger, hatred,
violence, and fear. Every morning when
Roberts walked into his tenth grade
homeroom, he knowingly accepted what
the rest of the day would entail: there
was 100 percent certainty that he would
be beaten up. Every day.

“Here is the dilemma: we get upset
with the people who have imperfections

I for most Americans permanently. The
American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012

I  takes away.the Bush tax cutsonly for

1 individuals making more than $400,000

$450,000. It also increased the payroll
taxbyl twolpercent for incomes up to
$1 13,700.and tax rates on dividends and
capital gains to 20 percent, inladdition

__from 15 percent for the top eamers. _
'1 _ The Joint Select Committee. on Deﬁ-
cit Reduction, a ‘bipartisan, 12-member

the Budget‘Control Act to reduce the
FEDERAL, deﬁcit by» $1.2 trillion over
the next decade. _But Goldsmith said the
act wouldiraise only '10 percenteoftliat
n$1‘.2 trillion total becausethe govem-

alI';_.i'-  2 e . A _ .
 According to-statistics from the Con-
gressioiial Budget 01Til:e,]if there had

panel, was created in August 2011 by» e A j 
. Program, ‘whichcommitted $470 bil- 

1. lion - andihas paid $387 billion -‘toibail  j:
3 out the banks and other ﬁnancial institu-"1 -

tions.’ "By the end of ‘ 2012, the interest 
declined and the-federal budget  . ,, 
merit spending will not be affected at. ' ‘I I ‘l I I

.a year and couples making more than.

to the 3.8- percent Medicare surcharge,-

. rate had

beennno ‘change in President Clinton_’s 1:
economic policies after he leftkoﬂicev

in 2001, there. would have, been a $5.6‘. ;, -.  ‘Goldsmithi f“If*you =gi_Ve<.¥ithis

ting MLK Day with

trillion federal surplus accumulated in pa '

. decade. ' .

But at the urging of President Bush, '

Congress passed ‘tax ‘cuts in 2001 and"
2003, which lowered both income’ 
ratesand capital gains tax rates, de-
creasing taxrevenue by ‘$1.8 billion

from 2002 to 2009. At the same’ time, 3‘ 

Bush spent $1,469 billion on the Iraq
and Afghanistan wars and defense.

After President Obama took office, 
"Congress passed a $787 billion 1stimu- it
his package tocut taxes and create job.s,~7 __

Sand createthe iTr"o‘ubled Asset Relief

jlvdeﬁcit totaIed'$l.1 trillion."

rate is already close to zero. A , ' :

sensitive industries Swill donwell,-but the

In theory, lbondholders win he iabie? ’ _’ V

_ » to make‘a:_gapitaI gain from the‘decIine-  ,
L . in the -iiiterest rate, but they should .not,/ 
‘ expect much return,‘ because the’iIltei'C:St:" '

 

 ith’S takeon post~,   

‘I  is  up. eo

reduction in the interest rate, 1 interest-
consumptiori«—spending "is going down
even-ritiorf  the ‘itivesttnent.

‘ r.-- ,9‘ " ' i sin’ ~_,‘;§;x«,{»_,

A-

   

    
   

: _for;_the StOCl§1.ﬁ)&rket.”   r '

 , .

1 erg:-1-. ' ""

c Finance Tip of the Week:
Get a Bank Account!

If you don’t have one already, sign up for a 
savings account. Not only do banks offer interest 
on your money, they also provide valuable
services speciﬁcally tailored for college students:
V check cashing, debit cards, online banking, %
balance alerts, personal loans, and direct deposit
are just some of the many perks!

... ‘

       
 
     
   
  

 

   
   
  
   
  
  

 



 

different than our own,” said Roberts.

Roberts, self-aware of his potential
anger, knew that he could not face those
imperfections with hatred. That would
turn ugly, fast. Instead, he took some
wise advice from Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. King had visited Roberts early
in his ministry and taught him one very
important lesson: There will not be prog-
ress unless you truly love your enemies.
This principle of nonviolence has stayed
with Roberts for his whole life.

For example, while teaching about
racial tensions, Roberts learned from

" one of his students that she had a rac-

ist grandfather. Roberts was neither an-
gry nor judgmental; he simply told her

i _ to continue to love him with even more

“In my wildest dreams, we could progress without legislation... we would have a gi-

ant, nation-wide dialogue on issues that matter. ’

}

TERRENCE ROBERTS a student from The Little Rock Nine ~
 

care than before.

Many people who attended Central
High with Roberts have since then called
him to express their deepest apologies

" and guilt for treating him poorly. One

man, who would stand and watch every
day as Roberts got beaten up in gym
class, regretted his inaction. Roberts,
ﬁlled with love, understood that this
man feared for his own life and immense
courage is not always easy to come by.

“In my wildest dreams, we could
progress without legislation,” said Rob-
erts, who believes in considerate com-
munication over angry ‘action. “We
would have a giant, nation-wide dia-
logue on issues that matter.”

Instead of rash or violent decisions,
the American people need to practice
more understanding and respect. Martin
Luther King, Jr. believed in nonviolent
principles. He believed in love, not hate,
and that is why he is still celebrated to-
day.

  

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

- A’ 3,

Zsllorts

Women’s basketball falls to York

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

Thursday night York College claimed
a 61-48 victory over Washington and
Lee women’s basketball.

York (15-4) made good on only 36.7
percent (22-60) of its ﬁeld goal at-
tempts, but they took 11 additional
shots and out-scored W&L by eight
points (13-5) at the foul line.

The Generals (6-10) held an early 4-3
lead, but the Spartans took a 16-6 lead
at the 9:28 mark of the first half. W&L
made four more ﬁeld goals out of 19 at-
tempts for the remainder of the half.

W&L opened the second half with
a 16-7 run over the ﬁrst 5:49. Senior
guard Megan Marks scored ﬁve points,
and four points came from both senior
forwards Rachel Warrick and Katy Wil-
son to make it a 37-32 game with 14:12
remaining. But after York’s junior for-
ward scored the next nine points of the
game, the Spartans held a 46-32 lead
with 8:32 left on the clock. York carried
a double-digit lead the rest of the way
toward the win.

As a team, W&L shot 40.8 percent
from the floor, but had 19 turnovers,
while just eight for York. Wilson and
ﬁrst-year forward Shelbi Hendricks led
the way with 11 points each.

Flrst-year Shelbi Hendricks

Courtesy of W&L Sports lnformatlon

club Bball in
its first year

This winter has much activity to offer as basket-
ball fans add yet another sports team to the list of
Washington and Lee clubs. Club Basketball, cre-
ated by ﬁrst-year Kyle Jaeger, perfectly combines
competition and enjoyment for players of all levels.

Jaeger started the club at W&L to keep up with his
high school pastime. “I missed playing highly com-
petitive pickup basketball,” Jaeger said. He says
that once he oﬂicially brought club basketball to the
University “a lot of great basketball players were
excited to be a part of it.”

Around 20 men make up the team. Not all partici-
pate at once, so that gives the players some ﬂexibil-
ity. “We try to practice two times .a week on week
nights,” J aeger said. Jaeger is solely responsible for
organizing practice, dealing with the budget, and
managing the team. There is no oﬁicial coach, but
the men learn from one another and encourage each
other on the court. Club sports offer the unique
opportunity to be completely student-led, entirely
peer-oriented. Relationships form quickly simply
through love of the sport and the drive to be out
there playing.

J aeger explained that they have had a lot of sched-
ule changes, since this is their ﬁrst year as a club.
The team hopes to create a solid schedule to carry
them through the rest of winter term. For more in-
formation regarding Club Basketball and its sched-
ule, contact Kyle Jaeger at jaegerk16@mail.wlu.
edu.

Remembering the legendary Joe Lyles

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

the Harlem Globetrotters.

 

To play a professional sport, coach
at the college level, or to serve in the
Army would make a great career for
any individual. Joe Lyles did them all.
Washington and Lee lost a cherished
member of its family when on Nov. 13
Joe Lyles passed away at the age of 83,
leaving behind multiple lifetimes’ worth
of achievements.

Lyles was born on October 28, 1929 in
St. Louis, and began to build his legacy
by becoming a member of St. Mary High
School’s Hall of Fame, playing multiple
sports. He went on to receive Bachelors
and Masters degrees in physical educa-
tion at Springﬁeld College.

His studies, however, were put on
hold, for good reason. From 1949-1954,
Lyles played professional baseball with
the St. Louis Browns organization as an
outﬁelder and pitcher. He also split the
years of 1949-1953 playing professional
basketball with the St. Louis Bombers as
a guard and forward. In the midst of his
professional sports career, Lyle served
for the Army in 1952. It was also dur-
ing this year Lyle traveled the globe as
a member of the United States All-Stars,
visiting 44 different countries to_ take on

I}’£'[/It’ ['7

After playing multiple professional
sports and completing his education,
Lyles began his career at W&L. His
coaching career was not only long, but
varied: Lyles head-coached baseball
from 1959-1978, soccer from 1959-
1976, and assistant-coached basketball
from 1959-1969. He achieved a 108-
229-3 record in baseball and a 100-85-
17 record in soccer during his tenure. He
was a two-time W&L Coach of the Year,
once for baseball in 1972 and once for
soccer in 1974.

Lyles’ inﬂuence spread far beyond the
conﬁnes of the W&L campus. He ful-
ﬁlled the position of chair for the Penn
and South Region Conference, the Old
Dominion Athletic Conferences’s prede-
cessor. He also served on various com-
mittees for‘NCAA baseball, including
national chair for Division III baseball
and as a member for the National Base-
ball Rules committee.

More telling of Lyles’ altruistic person-
ality was his participation in programs
through which he could serve others.
During off-seasons he served as a con-
sultant and recreation specialist for the

U.S. Office of Economic Opportunity.
He trained staff members of the Spring-
ﬁeld College Job Corps and Volunteers
in Service to America (VISTA). Lyles’
also devoted his summers to directing
summer camps in Virginia and New
Hampshire.

While Lyles will be remembered for-
ever as one of W&L’s great athletic
leaders, he was equally beloved for his
sense of humor. Lyles often displayed
his wit through his famous “Lylesisms.”
Whether he was taking inventory on his
teams,”1 want the left-handers over here,
right-handers over there, and the rest of
you come with me,” or bestowing valu-
able knowledge upon his players, “This
year, all our home games are going to be
here,” Lyles’ always prevalent and some-
times dizzying style of comedy garnered
the love of everyone in his presence.

On Nov. 18, Joe Lyles was buried down
the street from W&L in Stonewall Jack-
son Cemetery. The memory of W&L’s
most legendary coach and the Generals’
biggest fan will forever prevail on cam-
pus.

While the San Francisco 49ers are the popular
pick to win the Super Bowl — with their exciting
young quarterback Colin Kaepemick, a massive
offensive line, and stingy defense — I believe the
Ravens will pull out an upset. The 49ers are cer-
tainly a strong team, but the Ravens present some
challenges that the Niners will not be able to over-
come.

In the recent past, the Super Bowl winners were
teams that got hot at the right time. Teams like the
Packers and Giants did not have great regular sea-
son records, but they were able to perform well in
the playoffs. While the Ravens are not a wildcard
team, they match this trend more closely than the
49ers. Momentum is key in the playoffs, and the
Ravens have rallied around Ray Lewis, who an-
nounced this would be his last season. Many felt
that Ray Lewis’ announcement would not affect
the team ’s performance, but it has proven to be just
the spark they needed.

Ray Lewis headlines a strong. seasoned and
savvy defense. This group has been together for
many years, and they have been exposed to all
types of offenses. No matter what, they always
ﬁnd ways to execute their defensive gameplan at
the highest level. I expect this game to be no dif-
ferent. Colin Kaepemick has a unique skill set, and
the threat of the Niners’ read-offense has caused
problems for other teams. However, I believe that
the Ravens will expose this offense, proving it
more ofa gimmick than a threat.

Jim Haurbaugh has been given a lot of credit
for making a tough midseason switch ~ promot-
ing Kaepemick to starting quarterback ahead of
Alex Smith. However, John Harbaugh also made
a difﬁcult, less celebrated decision. John decided
to ﬁre Cam Cameron as offensive coordinator and
hand the reigns over to quarterbacks coach .lim
Caldwell, former head coach of the Indianapolis
Colts. This move has paid dividends, as the of-
fense has exploded. averaging over 400 yards per
game in the playoffs with a revitalized Joe Flacco

performing well because of increased freedom.
Caldwell will surely have a strong gameplan for
the Super Bowl that will overwhelm a terriﬁc Nin-
ers defense.

The Ravens have demonstrated their ability to
beat top teams like the Broncos and Patriots in
the playoffs, and the primary reason has been Joe
Flacco. Joe F lacco has always been a good,"but not
great quarterback.
He almost led
the Ravens to the
Super Bowl last
year. and this year
he was able to get
over the hump.
During this play-
off run Flacco has
posted some in-
credible numbers.
In the postseason,
Flacco has tossed
8 touchdowns to
only 1 intercep-
tion. and has an
average passer
rating of 114.7.
In several games,
Flacco has proven
he isable to put
the team on his
back, especially
when Ray Rice
struggles. Flacco
has a chance to
leap to elite status q ~
as a quarterback with a victory on Sunday. We can
expect strong performances ﬁ'om both the Raven’s
defense and Ray Rice, but if the Ravens win the
Super Bowl. it will be because ofa great game by
Joe Flacco, and I expect him to win Super Bowl
MVP.

After 18 games 017/ regular and postseason
play, two teams ave come out alive. The
San Francisco 49ers and the Baltimore
Ravens will face of in Super Bowl XLVII.
Kyle and Hailey line up on op osite sides of
the ball on who they thin will win.

_ The Baltimore Ravens vs. San Francisco 49ers
match-up is everything the NFL could have asked
for in a Super Bowl. The headlines outnumber the
writers to create them. There’s the future retiree
who has become a symbol of the town he repre-
sents with his pregame dance and passion for the
game. There’s the team that _chose to switch start-
ing quarterbacks halfway through the season under

' much contro-
versy. And of
course there's
the fact that the
head coaches
are brothers,

, leading many
to‘ rename next
week’s game
the "Harbowl"
(the same name
was used dur-
ing their regular
season match-
up last year).
My per-
sonal opinion
is clouded by
the fact that I
choose the 49ers
at the beginning
of the season to
win the Super-
bowl (I admit.

I worried when

Kaepemick was

named start-
ing quarterback) and had a terrible experience at
a Ravens game when l was in middle school and
heckled by a grown man for wearing the oppos-
ing teams jersey. But personal opinions aside, I
believe the Jim Harbaugh and the 49ers are going
to pull this one out.

During the regular season, the 49ers were one

, \\\‘\.‘\.‘\ \\\\‘\‘\_‘:.‘\

of the best all around teams in the league. They
made some terrible mistakes sure, but they seemed
to rally and overcome them with ease. The team
has taken to Kaepemick and he has become a suc-
cess story that no one saw coming. But it‘s not
their new style of offense that has me convinced.
it's their defense. I am of the personal bcliefthat
defenses win championships, and their defense is
one of the top five in the league. And hey. if they
can‘t stop .loe Flacco, they really don‘t deserve
to win. The onceidominant Ravens defense isn’t
what it used to be, and they won’t be able to keep
up with the Kaepemick led offe sc. If the 49ers
are able to establish a passing game early the Ra-
vens won‘t have a chance. Nonetheless, I think
it will be a close game. Lets just hope it doesn't
come down to ﬁeld goals, which would be bad for
both teams.

  

 

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

sports

 

n the numbers
1 8

Lionel Messi became just the eighth player in La Liga his-
tory to score 200 goals. At the age of 25 he is the youngest

player to do so.

3

The number of years in a row that tennis’ Novak Djokovic
has won the Austrailian Open after defeating Andy Murray in

four sets on Sunday. It was his fourth overall title.

0424

The amount of time between the United States and Ger-
many’s combined times at the Bobsled and Skeleton World
Championships. Lolo Jones and teammates took home the

gold to defend their title.
26%!
The total number of days between victories for the Wash-
ington Capitals before they defeated the Buffalo Sabres

on Sunday. It is also the same number of days since Alex

Ovechkin scored a goal. The Capitals won 3-2.

 

.soapbox

"Most of the [NFL players] are well-
compensated for the violence they do to

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

On Saturday, Jan. 19,, the Washington
and Lee men’s basketball team won its third
straight game and ended 22nd-ranked Guil-
ford’s nine-game winning streak.

Sophomore guard Javon McDonald scored
seven three-pointers (7-of-9) to lead W&L
with 21 points. The seven triples tied a Gener-
als record for three-pointers made in a game
(done six times), with Mike Stuart ’05 who
most recently reached the record in 2004 in a
game at Lynchburg.

The Generals never trailed in the game,
and led for the ﬁnal 15:13 ofthe second half.
Guilford (14-3, 6-2, ODAC) cut W&L’s lead
to two points, 57-55, with 2:32 remaining in
the contest on a layup. After a turnover by the

 

Sophomore Javon McDonald
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

  

  

Gennies, the Quakers missed a jumper that
would have tied the game.

Junior guard Kevin Gill hit a three from
the top of the key to increase the advantage
to 60-55 with 52 seconds left. Guilford re-
sponded with a layup, and GC.immediately
fouled to send Gill to the line for a l-and-1.
He missed the ﬁrst, but the ball got back to
W&L when GC sailed a pass out ofbounds.

First-year forward Andrew Franz sealed
the game, nailing two shots from the charity
stripe creating a ﬁve point lead (62-57). Guil-
ford’s junior guard Jarren Hinton split ‘a pair
of free throws with .3 seconds left to reach the
ﬁnal score of 62-58.

The Gennies led 36-33 at the half, after

  
 

1.

l 

.v .. if.

t 

 

92:-
't.,. .,
‘:3 r«_;‘v-tr‘

 

Gennies upset No. 22 Guilford

making 8-of-17 three-pointers in the opening
20 minutes. W&L led by as many as 11, 26-
15, at the 8:24 mark, but GC ﬁnished the half
on a 21-7 run to get back into the game.

McDonald hit six of his seven three-point-
ers in the ﬁrst half and also ﬁnished the game
with three rebounds, two assists, and one
steal. Franz drained 10 points, while grabbing
ﬁve boards and dishing out three assists. Se-
nior forward J.D. Ey barely missed a double-
double with nine points and 12 rebounds. He
additionally added three blocks, two steals
and two assists.

GC ended the game at 39.3 percent from
the ﬁeld, and connected on only 7-of-21
threes. They also turned over the ball 1-1 times.

   

  

their bodies... You read some of these
stories about college players who undergo“
some of these same problems with
concussions and so forth and then have
nothing to fall back on. That's something
that I'd like to see the NCAA think about.

-PreslderitBarackObama In an lntiervlewwlui1heNew’
Republlc.1'helmiervlewwlll appearlnuieFeb. 1.1.lssue.

 

 

Clancy new

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

Coach Christine Clancy is in her ﬁrst year
as Washington and Lee women’s basketball
head coach, and she brings more than just a
knowledge for the game to the table. Having

‘coached and received an education from some

ofthe top schools in the country, it seems that
Coach Clancy represents W&L athletics ap-
propriately: with a combination of athleticism
and intellect.

Coach Clancy spent her college years at
Brandeis University, playing bothbasketball
and tennis. Coach Clancy won ‘the Coaches
Award in both sports, and in her senior year
led her basketball team as team captain.
Coach Clancy received a Bachelor of Arts
degree in economics, and showcased her bal-
ance of athleticism and intellect by becoming
a three-time member of the University Ath-
letic Association All-Academic Team.

From 2006 to 2008, Coach Clancy was
the assistant coach for women’s basketball
at Smith College. While coaching at Smith,
Coach Clancy furthered her education by
earning a Master of Science degree in sports
and exercise studies. She also spent her tenure
at Smith as an athletic administrative intern.

 

Coach Christine Clancy
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

In the following three years, Coach Clancy
led the women’s basketball squad at Colby

to job, not to basketball

College, spending her ﬁrst two years as an as-
sistant before receiving interim head coach-
ing duties in the 2010-2011 season. In her
second season of assistant coaching, Coach
Clancy helped lead-her team to a school re-
cord 24 wins and its ﬁrst NCAA Tournament
berth in program history. In her ﬁrst year as
head coach, Coach Clancy’s team followed
up in similarfashion with a 22-6 record and
another NCAA Tournament berth.

Coach Clancy’s athletic and academic in-
ﬁuence was evident in her ﬁrst year as she
helped coach Becca Bolton to the ODAC
scholar—athlete award. In her second year at
W&L and ﬁrst year as head coach, Coach
Clancy has also been named an assistant pro-
fessor of physical education.

Having played, studied and coached at
places like Smith, Brandeis, Colby, and
W&L, Coach Clancy represents the Univer-
sity well, striking a balance between smarts
and athletic ability. Her Generals are current.-
ly 7-10 and travel to Bridgewater on Thurs-
day to face the Eagles.

      

So homore Jillian Katterhagen
of he Woodlands,_Texas, broke
the school record in the indoor
ole_ vault_this_ weekend at the
enison Lid Lifter Invitational.
She vaulted 3.36 meters to
take first place.

ondeok

_ Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

Men’s Basketball

W&L outswims neighboring VMI

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s and wom-
en’s swim teams won their meets this week-
end across the street at Virginia Military In-
stitute. The men’s team defeated VMI, their
only competitor, while the women’s team took 1
home wins against both VMI and Ferrum.

The men’s team won 11 events, and the
women tallied nine. Top performers included
Rick Sykes and Stephanie Foster with three
event wins each. Other winners include Bren-
nan Haley in the 200-yard backstroke and

at Bridgewater 7 pm

Wesley Sigmon in the 2000-yard breaststroke.
The 200-yard medley relay team made up by
Stephanie Foster, Sarah Schaffer, Caroline
Hamp and Izzy Brassﬁeld also won. Kelly
Mae Ross and Billy Fries took ﬁrst in the
women’s and men’s 1000-yard freestyle re-
spectively.

The next meet for both teams will be their
respective conference championship meets.
The women’s team will travel to Greensboro,
NC for the Old Dominion Conference Cham-

a

pionships on Feb. 8 for three days of competi-
tion. They will look to defend their title that
they have had for ﬁve years running.

Then on Feb. 13th the men’s team heads to
Charlotte, NC for the Bluegrass Mountain
Championships when they will take on teams
like Johns Hopkins, Wingate and Randolph-
Macon.

at Hampton-Sydney
2 pm

Women’s Basketball

at Bridgewater 7 pm

vs Virginia Wesleyan
4 pm '

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

    an

'78

great! 

Not one, not two, but THREE Generals of
the Week are accomplishing great things.

A&L / page 6

 at WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

HE RING—TUM PHI.  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

By Krysta Huber
STAFF w R ITER

Washington and Lee recently received
a $2.5 million dollar donation from the
Dyson Foundation to put toward build-
ing a center for global learning on cam-
pus.

The gift represents the leading contri-
bution to the new building, which will
be attached to a renovated DuPont Hall.

According to Vice President of Univer-
sity Advancement Dennis Cross, the Dy-
son Foundation developed an interest in
the project because two of its members
are connected to the university’s com-
munity. Chris Dyson is an alumnus and
his father, a W&L parent, is the presi-
dent of the foundation.

The Dyson Foundation has made con-
tributions to W&L in the past, includ-
ing the revitalization of spring term and
priorities of the university‘ campaign.
Through frequent communication with
W&L’s advancement ofﬁce, the Dysons
expressed interest in promoting intema-
tional education on campus and there-

' fore wanted to help build the new center.

“The Dysons believe that we live in
one world and they want to make sure
that our students are a part of that world.
This building is a way to bring that em-
phasis to W&L students,” Cross said.

Dean of the College Suzanne Keen
said she is very appreciative of such a
large gift.

“I just feel grateful and lucky because
it seems that the ball is really rolling,”
said Keen. “The gift makes it all seem
real.” I

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXV.|l,NUMBER14

Global learning comes to life

Director of International Education
Larry Boetsch echoed Keen’s sentiment,
saying that this process, which * dates
back to 2005, has now entered its second
stage.

Boetsch explained that the early phase
of building the new center was a way
to establish what the university was al-
ready doing in support of global learn-
ing and then to ﬁgure out what W&L
should add and improve upon. Boetsch
explained that thinking differently about
study abroad was a major focal point in
the ﬁrst stage of the project.

According to Boetsch, the project
has now entered its second phase. This
phase involves creating credit courses to
prepare for study abroad programs, in an
effort for students to reap more beneﬁts
from their time abroad.

“You might be thinking about a proj-
ect you want to get started while you’re
away, and complete when you come
back,” said Boetsch. “Right now, we’re
trying to ﬁgure out how that would hap-

pen.”

“In the second phase, everything is
becoming connected - faculty, courses,
curriculum, study abroad — It’s all com-
ing together,” he added.

According to Cross, discussion to ren-
ovate DuPont hall had been in the works
for a few years, but was ofﬁcially added
to the university campaign in 2010.

On the campaign released in Octo-
ber of 2010, one of W&L’s priorities
was to create a campus appropriate for

the 21st century. Changes that have so
far achieved this goal include the Hil-
lel House and renovating and restoring
buildings along the Colonnade.

The Center for Global Learning proj-

ect was originally described on the cam-
paign as “a state-of-the-art facility for
global learning in a renovated and en-
hanced DuPont.” Cross said that the ac-
tual layout and details of the new center
were not yet established, but now that a
vision for the building has been execut-
ed, it willbe easier to solicit support for
the building.

“You can’t just go out there and solicit
funds if you don’t have plans, if you
don’t know really exactly what’s go-
ing to be there,” said Cross. “You can
explain it in general, but you won’t get
gifts until you have it deﬁned.”

Now that the final product for DuPont
has been established, the University Ad-

“vancement Oﬁice has begun to release

pamphlets that advertise the Center for
Global Learning. The pamphlet includes
a plan of the overall site, as well as sec-
ond and third floor plans.

According to the pamphlet, the center
will house the Ofﬁce of lntemational
Education, ofﬁces of visiting interna-
tional faculty and multiple language de-
partments.

The Center for Global Learning has
been designed to include the most up-
to-date technologies that will allow stu-
dents to bring the world onto W&L’s
campus.

Boetsch described his vision for what
he imagines will take place in the center.
“An open classroom reveals small
groups of W&L students in animated
conversation with groups of Italian stu-

dents at one of our partner institutions

abroad,” said Boetsch. “In a virtual
classroom, art history students join their
professor on the ceiling of the Sistine
Chapel to examine the details of the re-
cent restoration.”

He also added that it was important to
make a distinction between the purpose
of the center compared to other academ-
ic buildings on campus.

“This will be a place you walk into and
it will be like no other place on campus
because it will be the marketplace for
global ideas and activity,” said Boetsch.
“This is a building to accommodate pro-
grams, not just a building in which of-
ﬁces happen to be located.”

Both Boetsch and Cross said that they
are pleased with how the plan to create
the center has been progressing. Both
are optimistic about receiving more
donations because global learning has
become an important aspect of the cur-
riculum.

Cross said: “I feel very optimistic. I
think that over the next 18 months or
so, we will be able to get committed do-
nations and get the project started. We
have a good case to make, and I know
that [aIumni, students and parents] will
be a receptive audience.”

Students ‘
work to

update our
constitution

By Dougas McNiel
STAFF WRITER

The Constitutional Review Commit-
tee has been hard at work reviewing and
proposing changes to the student body
constitution since October.

The committee is headed by junior
Annelise Madison, and eight other un-
dergraduate and law students. The other
members are law students Rob Ridge-
way, Jay Gordon, and John Langley;
undergraduate seniors Cameron Higgins,
Emily Zankman and Clark Hildabrand;
junior Alex Berger; and ﬁrst year Paqui
Toscano.

Annelise Madison says that the main
goals of the review are too “make the
Constitution more comprehensive so that
it can act as a framework for student gov-
ernment, creating an article of student

rights, and clarifying the powers of the ,

Executive Committee”.

The committee began the process by
identifying what they believed to be the
problems in the student constitution and
then discussing methods of ﬁxing the
problems. Their objective this semester
has largely been to harness feedback
from the Washington and Lee commu-
nity about their proposed amendments
and to spread the word about the process.

The Constitutional Review Commit-
tee will hold a town hall meeting in the
Northern Auditorium and the Moot Court
Room where students can share their
opinions about the proposed amend-
ments, on Feb. 28. After this, the com-
mittee will consider the student body's
input and present the amendments to the
Executive committee sometime in early
March.

Later in March the student body will
vote on each amendment. Every amend-
ment must be voted on by half of the stu-
dent body and must receive a two-third
“yes” majority in order to pass.

One proposed amendment is a creation
of separate legislative branch and judi-
cial branch articles. Although both of
these articles fall under the jurisdiction
of the Executive Committee, the com-
mittee hopes that by separating the two
articles they can clarify some the powers
of other student body organizations such
as the Student-Faculty Hearing Board
and the Student Judiciary Council.

The Constitutional Review Committee
will be releasing information on the pro-
posed amendments through Facebook
and through articles in the Phi.

Fighting for c

By Hamlet Fort

STAFF WRITER
A Washington and Lee Law School

student tried to change University policy
last year regarding a national holiday
that most college students nationwide
have off from classes. '
David Knoespel, ‘l4L, attempted to
submit a petition to suspend classes for
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day to the under-
graduate and Law administrations last
year, but the effort was not successful.
Knoespel believes Washington andLee
should follow other universities’ method

Dr. King’s birthday (Jan. 15). Hundreds
ofcolleges, universities and high schools

_around the country have a holiday off

from classes in remembrance, and usu-
ally host an array of events celebrating
Dr. King’s legacy.

Washington and Lee is not exempt
from such events. However, the Uni-
versity feels canceling classes is not the
right path to take.

We believe that canceling classes is
not the only way, or even necessarily

“In a sentence, the symbolic value of MLK Day is

too important to just let it be another day of going

"through our everyday motions. ”

DAVID KNOESPEL, ‘14L

ofcelebration for the national holiday.

“In a sentence, the symbolic value of
MLK Day is too important to just let it
be another day of going through our ev-
eryday motions,” said Knoespel.

Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is cel-
ebrated on the third Monday of every
Jan. in the United States, right around

the most meaningful way, to respect and
honor Dr. King and his legacy,” said Jeff
Hanna, Executive Director of Communi-
cations and Public Affairs. The ofﬁcial
University policy regarding MLK Day is
such, regardless of an attempt at a peti-
tion from Knoespel.

Instead of suspending classes, Wash-

ange on MLK

ington and Lee hosted a number of
events to celebrate MLK Day on Jan. 21.
One of those events was a lecture by Ter-
rence Roberts, one of the famous Little
Rock Nine, entitled “Lessons from Little
Rock,” in Lee Chapel on Sunday, Jan.
20. The Little Rock Nine were a group
of African-American students credited
with integrating Little Rock Central
High School in 1957, made famous by
the intervention of Arkansas Governor
Orval Faubus and President Dwight D.
Eisenhower. The event is considered one
of the most important moments in the
Civil Rights Movement ofthe 1950s and
1960s.

The Shepherd Poverty Program hosted
a day of service on Monday, Jan. 14, in
honor of Dr. King’s commitment to com-
munity service and dedication to helping
others. Roland S. Martin, award-winning
journalist and political analyst, delivered
the keynote address in Lee Chapel on
Jan. 16, followed by a Remembrance
Concert at the First Baptist Church in
Lexington and Jan. 21.

Washington and Lee doesn’t ignore
Martin Luther King Day, but some stu-
dents feel suspending classes is an im-

portant step towards improving W&L’s
remembrance efforts.

“We hope that in time W&L will
choose to place more signiﬁcance on
MLK Holiday and the things that the
holiday represents,” said Knoespel.

Knoespel believes change will come
to Washington and Lee in time. “Ulti-
mately, I think that W&L in the future
will change its policies,” he said. “I think
that the stakes are too important and the
downside too small for W&L not to
change.”

Washington and Lee hosts events for
Martin Luther King Day, and the Uni-
versity believes students must make
an effort to ﬁnd them and participate.

3

  

Suspended classes affect every student,
and that seems to be the most obvious
measure of remembrance. Students who
aren’t aware of W&L’s MLK Day events
may believe that no celebration is occur-
ring.

The University hopes students will
make an effort in the future to celebrate
MLK Day without calling for suspend-
ing classes.

“Through our week-long celebration of
Dr. King’s life, sponsored by the Office
of Diversity and Inclusion, the Univer-
sity strives to create a signiﬁcant tribute
that involves both our campus commu-
nity and the Lexington community,” said
Hanna.

 

 

    

 

  

Ur-' “   1“  : =r;*:7.*tir-:y
vmsi. '   :::_z .. :3RfilTY
1  2:‘.-7.-zen
2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2013
FEB 0 5 2013

n ews  

 

 

lnvestigati n

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

"'39:. 5,‘

 

I.

  

I

 

Shester looks into the growing problem of Public Housing in America. Some of the questions she delved
into were our obligations to provide housing for the poor and how projects affect children.

Last Tuesday, Assistant Professor of
Economics Katharine Shester tackled the
growing and concerning problem of hous-
ing the poor in the United States.

To do so, we are confronted with two
options: we could either give them money
or we could use that money to provide
them with in-kind subsidies, including
speciﬁc goods or services such as food,
shelter and clothing.

Shester looked at several questions

 

Assistant Professor of Economics
Katharine Shester

with this issue. Why are we obligated to
provide these beneﬁts? Is this not a case of
paternalism? lfso, do we really care about
children? And ﬁnally, might there be other
indirect goals, such as promoting less seg-
regation, or stimulating economic growth?

Housing for the poor, the most basic of
human goods, can be distinguished into
two types. First, there is unit-based hous-
ing, in which the government subsidizes a
speciﬁc housing unit to let the poor reside
there. Second, there is tenant-based hous-
ing, in which the government subsidizes a
speciﬁc tenant, thus allowing them to live
in a place oftheir choosing.

Before choosing between the two, one
ought to take note of the history of public
housing in this country. .

“The New Deal of 1933, the Hous-
ing Acts of 1937 and 1949, and the U.S.
Housing and Home Finance Agency of
1964 have provided ﬁnancial assistance
to the indigent for the elimination of un-
safe and unsanitary housing conditions, for
the eradication of slums, for the provision
of decent, safe and sanitary dwellings for
families of low income and for the reduc-
tion of unemployment and the simulation
of business activity,” said Shester.

Continuing the tradition of govemmen-
tal initiatives in public housing, the federal
government today spends $50 billion for
the slums and such, but has been seeming-
ly unable to shrink the long waiting lists
for public housing and vouchers.

“lt’s not always households with the
lowest incomes who get into public hous-
ing,” said Shester.

So to eliminate this ineﬂiciency, vari-
ous economists have studied and proposed
solutions to this gross bureaucratic prob-
lem.

One such solution, proposed by the
economists Janet Currie and Aaron Yelow-
itz, purports to answer the question, “Are
public housing projects good for kids?”

Currie and Yelowitz suggest that the
size of a unit that a family is eligible to

get in public housing be determined by
the number and gender of their kids. The
bigger the unit, they say, the bigger the
subsidy. For example, assuming that par-
ents reside in a bedroom of their own, if
there were one boy and one girl, the fam-
ily would be allocated a three-bedroom
unit. If there were two boys or two girls,
however, the family would only have two
bedrooms.

Public housing projects are, indeed,
good for kids. “According to the results of
their study, living in public housing proj-
ect buildings PH project makes you: less
likely to live in an overcrowded unit, more
likely to live in a building with less than 50
units and makes children 11 percent less
likely to have been held back in school one
or more grades,” said Shester.

Finally, Shester addressed Lawrence
Katz’s “Moving to Opportunity” Experi-
ment from 1994-1998, in which 4,600
households in Baltimore, Boston, Chi-
cago, Los Angeles and New York, all liv-
ing in project-based subsidized housing in
high poverty areas, were divided into three
groups.

The ﬁrst group received vouchers to
live in areas with less than ten percent pov-
erty, the second group received vouchers
to go anywhere and the third group didn’t
get anything

In the end, the second group reported
greater safety, fewer crimes and less psy-
chological distress.

Vouchers are, in Shester’s words, “the
manner by which we ought to address pov-
erty in America.” D

Global News Feature:
SAIL takes students
out of the ‘‘bubble’’  

By"Hannah Howard

STAFF WR|TE9‘SN  

, ,. .
4% *
0 .

       
  

 

V
V*'‘ 1:
— CV
E :
'4 9

., $3‘
- min’?-‘ '\

As students, we have a tendency to get caught up in the all happenings on
the Washington and Lee campus ‘— the “W&L bubble,” It is often necessary
to take a step back from everything and remember what is going on else-
where. The Student Association for International Learning, or SAIL, aims to
help students do that.

Soﬁa Sequeira, president and active-chair of SAIL said, “SAIL is an
organization dedicated to addressing international issues within the W&L
community and to sharing new and different answers to social, cultural and
political questions.”

SAIL is one of the most active clubs on campus and has been for quite
some time. Amy Richwine, SAIL’s advisor, said, “The association existed as
the lntemational Club well before I arrived on campus twelve years ago.”

It is easy for students to get involved with the group. Just sign up and at-
tend some meetings or offer to help out with one of the events. There are a
few different committees within the club that are available as well.

The Outreach Committee organizes events that deal with international
cultures and interests. This committee also coordinates activities between
SAIL, the W&L campus and the Lexington community.

The International Development and Relief Group (IDRG) educates stu-
dents about current humanitarian efforts and campaigns. The Publicity Com-
mittee creates posters 'to, raise awareness on campus of SAIL events and
maintains the website. .

SAIL hosts events year round in an effort to “bring the world to our cam-
pus” and raise overall awareness of current events and crises around the
globe.

Sequeira said, “The student body is well informed about global affairs,
but we still need to try to get more people involved and interested in them.”

Some of the events that try to spark interest on campus are the annual Ice
Cream Social in September and the Showcase for Morocco in November.
The Showcase was one of the largest events this year. February will mark the
2013 Friendship Dinner and in March the second large event for SAIL, An
Evening Abroad, will take place.

Sequeira continued, “Most importantly [these events] promote exchange
between the diverse cultures at W&L. The student body should also be aware
of more ways in which they could improve the wellbeing of the global com-
munity.”

Increased global awareness helps students to understand people across
the globe through a different lens.

“SAIL helps students to understand aspects about the world through
someone else’s eyes and through a diﬂerent perspective,” said Sequeira. “We
do so by learning about other people’s stories, experiences and views.”

This understanding is important both on campus — for forming a stronger
community — and off campus — for successful interactions on a global scale.
Sequeira spoke on her personal beneﬁts from SAIL: “Being the chair has
given me the opportunity to interact with people with dilferent interests and
concerns regarding global issues and cultural matters. It has been a learning

exerience that has widened m ers ective on the world.”

 ”

 

By Yejean Kim
STA F F w R IT E R

Lexington City Council banned the ﬂy-
ing of any ﬂags on city-owned poles ex-
cept for U.S., Virginia, and city ﬂags, in
2011. The ban was enacted amidst pro-
tests of the Confederate ﬂags that were
ﬂown in honor of Lee-Jackson Day that
year. .
Many residents of Lexington, includ-

.ing several students and teachers at

W&L as well as several prominent busi-
ness owners were among the protesters.

One of these business owners is Al
Hockaday, a former Marine and owner
of the Shenandoah Attic and Victorian
Parlor along with his wife, emestine.

In a speech at an event for protesting
the ﬂags in 2011, Hockaday stated that
he hoped to never see three ﬂags ﬂying
in Lexington: the swastika, the rising
sun of Japan and. the Confederate stan-
dard. When contacted at the Shenandoah

I stated that the defendantsil..we:rei to ..pa

 

Attic and Victorian Paillér,  emestige;
said, “This establishrrient,d<iesn’t have ,,
anything against the ﬂags¥but  ”

The ban was not the ﬁrst time‘ 7'
ington history that the ﬂags have drawn’ 2'
criticism.

On June 25, 1993, the Sons of Confed-
erate Veterans, Virginia Division, ﬁled a
complaint alleging that they were hin
dered from displaying the Confederate
ﬂag at a rededication ceremonyforl M M
cemetery statue of General;.,'l.‘lto_1;:ias,;J'
“Stonewall” Jackson. A  " 

The settlement eventua y

F ban IaiCOI1ﬂlCt Of

g the lawsuit reinstated against the

However, Constitutional experts say
that the SCV has a slim chance of mak-
"rig a Constitutional argumentebecause
' gton has the right to control speech

the Sons of Confederate S
$1 in “monetary relief”, acct):
case‘summary, as well-N A I

  

  

from the suit.’-   A 
More prominently, the case also re-

used as a national or battle ﬂag of the
Confederacy.”

The protest and subsequent ban in
2011 led the SCV to ﬁle another lawsuit
protesting the ban on several grounds,
including the 1993 injunction and a vio-

 
         
     

Nebraska: “Iii
of the heritage o

 
   
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
    

where people are coming’ from‘ when
they say it’s offensive, Personally, I was
a little offended myself, because I don’t

gm! rights. While the
D‘ _ 1' ‘ 'issed, there is a hearing
,  4th U.S. Circuit Court
1  on March 20 in the hopes of
this region is an aspect to be proud of.”

. This was corroborated by ﬁrst year

ﬁcult to not feel anything negative about
it, because in the North it’s a symbol
of everything negative aboutithe war-—
slavery, and treason. Michigan was one
of the ﬁrst states to rebel against the
laws against slaves, so we have a par-
ticular view on it. I know it’s a symbol
of Southern pride around here, but when
you grow up viewing it as something so
negative it‘s hard to put that aside.”

Next year’s Lee-Jackson Day will fall
' an Jan. 17-18. ‘

property, including ﬂag poles.
‘_‘,Lee-Jackson Day saw re-
": . including protesters
' grate ﬂags down-
' zimgge ﬁlled with

   

     

  
  
  

think that that aspect of the history of

Erica Schiller, who said: “It’s really dif-

4-»;
Im

 

 

 



 

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

3 ' THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

  pinions

 
   

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

TH LIBERATION OF TIBUKTU

J .

  FEBRUARY 1. 2013 I

'l‘he.\l()S'l‘
l’()\\~’l§Rl«‘L‘l.
Wm! “W  

VP \

DY MICHAEL TOMASKY

_ Hard as it is to believe, Hillary Clin-
ton was, at one point, little more than a
girl scout from Park Ridge, Illinois. She
was on student council, wrote for the

school ' newspaper, and ‘played’ baseball‘

lilillltﬁﬂ lilli llild

ll;  :

has exalted the political icon as “the most
powerful woman in American history.”
The president has referred to her as “one
of the ﬁnest secretary of states we’ve

ever had.” Havingr t-ravelled“‘)56,73,3.
miles during"her time with the Obama ~

administration, Clinton has been named
by The Atlantic “The George Clooney of
global affairs.” And some have reason to
believe that she’s just getting started.
Clinton stepped down from her role
as secretary of state on Friday on the
heels of a committee investigation into
the death of U.S. Ambassador Christo-
pher Stevens. Stevens, killed in Libya
on Sept. ll when Libyan rebels attacked
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, was ini-
tially thought to have been murdered as
the result of the ﬁlm The Innocence of

‘Muslims. However, Stevens’ diary later

revealed that the ambassador had been
fearful of an attack for some‘ time, be-
lieving both that the tensions in Libya
had reached a peak and that Al Qaeda
had placed him in their crosshairs. As a
result, Stevens had requested increased
security at the consulate, which the U.S.
State Department ultimately ignored.

, The committee found that several ofﬁ-

cers had behaved negligently in the time
leading up to Stevens’ death, and three
employees were eventually let go.
Despite this, Clinton was untouched
by blame. During the congressional
hearings about the attack, Clinton was
treated for the most part with respect. A
brief run-in with Sen. Ron Johnson con-
cerning what he considered to be a slow
reaction on her part after the attack only
served to further portray Clinton as self-
composed and dedicated. Her reply to
his hooded accusations had her asking,
“With all due respect, the fact is we had
four dead Americans. Was it because of
a protest or was it because of guys out
for a walk one night who decided they’d
go kill some Americans? What differ-

ence, at this point, does it make?” If _

anything, Clinton walked away from the
scufﬁe having picked up yardage in the
eyes of supporters.

As Clinton leaves her position, she

wasserts,‘ -‘“I am more convinced than

ever in the strength and staying power
of America’s global leadership and our
capacity to be a force for good in the
world.” Looking back on her years as
the 67th secretary of state, Clinton has
a clear view of all of her many mile-
stones. She broke the record pertaining
to the number of nations visited by the
secretary of state, trumping Madeline
Albright’s 98 different countries with
her own 112 (having crossed enough of
the world to circle the globe more than
38 times). She was the ﬁrst secretary of
state to visit Myanmar in more than ﬁfty
years when she helped to free political
prisoners who opposed the country’s

istory still in the making

how I’m going to adjust to not having a
schedule.”

But those close to her say that Clin-
ton has never been the type to sit back
and let the country be run without her.
Dee Dee Myers, who was press secretary
when Clinton’s husband was in oﬂice,
says of the out-going secretary of state,
“One of the things I think that Hillary
has done consistently over the course of
her career is she’s always opted for in-
stitutional power. She wants to make big
change, touch people’s lives in a lasting
way. Now she faces a similar decision.
She can join her husband’s foundation.
She can create her own foundation. She

“One of the things I think that Hillary has done consis-
tently over the course of her career is she s always opted
for institutional power. She wants to make big change,
touch people is lives in a lasting way. ”.

Dee Dee Myers, former White House Press Secretary

leader Aung San Suu Kyi. More impres-
sively, she oversaw the State Depart-
ment at a time in our country’s history
when America was waging wars in both
Iraq and Afghanistan.

So what’s next‘?

According to Clinton, what she wants
now is nothing more than to catch up on
20 years of lost sleep. In an interview
with Michele Kelemen, Clinton did not
mention having any intention to run for
president in 20l6, stating, “I don’t see
myself getting back into politics. I want
to be involved in philanthropy, advo-
cacy, working on issues like women and
girls that I care deeply about. I want to
write and speak. I want to work with my
husband and my daughter on our mutual
foundation interests. So I’m going to
have my hands full. I don’t quite know

can work on issues she cares deeply
about and have a huge impact, but it’s
not the kind of institutional power that
she seems to gravitate toward.”

Supporters have rallied around Clin-
ton, even begu a super-political action
committee on her behalf just in case
she decides to run. For her part, Clinton
has been coy about the subject, not yet
having denied outright that she will be
running. There have been many remarks
made to the effect that she cannot see
that far into.the future. To many fans
who had given up hope of ever seeing
Clinton in the Oval Ofﬁce after she lost
in 2008, these remarks have resurrected
their optimism.

for the pleasure of it._Today, Newsweek

Comb attin g

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF WRITER ,
Recently, Secretary of Defense Leon
Panetfa signed an order using the pow-
ers of his ofﬁce to lift all restrictions
and barriers to women in combat posi-
tions in the US military. While women
have been allowed to serve in the US
militaryand attend its academies since
the early I990’s, they have‘ never been
allowed to serve in frontline or offensive
combat roles, but this does little to keep
them out of the line of ﬁre in today’s
modern urban warfare. With this last
act of his authority, Panetta has liﬂed
the ﬁnal piece of the “great glass ceil-
ing” to women in the greatest ﬁght force
the world has ever known. This has not
gone by without some controversy, as
numerous critics have cited both poten-
tial false accusations of sexual assault by
female soldiers and an increase in actual
instances of sexual assault as a threat to
the combat readiness of our ﬁghting men
and women. Personally, I feel that his-
tory, geopolitics, and previous examples
will prove these concerns to be minimal,
certainly not enough to justify the bar-
ring of qualiﬁed ﬁghting women from
serving in frontline combat in our mili-
tary. I
*7’ Currently, according to the Wash-
ington Post, 17 countries currently al-
low women to serve in frontline combat

“roles in their militaries, among them be-

ing France, Australia, Germany, Poland,
and Israel. _
Let us ﬁrst see to the particular geo-

political and defensive situations of a
few of these militaries, so as to establish
that the women in these militaries are
more than capable of ﬁghting along-
side their male comrades. Currently,

. the French military is engaged in what

is shaping up to be a long-term military
conﬁict in Mali as it ﬁghts to reinstall
its democratically elected government
and defend the nation against ruthless
Islamo—fascists that will present F rance’s
ﬁghting men and women with brutal ur-
ban conﬂict. Germany, Poland, and Aus-
tralia have all been major contributors
to the “Coalition of the Willing” in Iraq,
and ISAF forces in Afghanistan, and as
such their female soldiers have certain-
ly experienced numerous tests of their
bravery and skill without signiﬁcant or
abnormal fault. North Korea meanwhile,
just from anecdotes alone most certainly
has some of the most demanding train-
ing regimen and brutal physical require-
ments in the military world. If North Ko-
rean women can survive their nation’s
military, American women can certainly
survive in ours. While anecdotal at best,
this at least lends credence to the case
that women present no real threat to the
combat eﬁectiveness of a military.
Regarding sexual assault on women
in militaries, the US situation provides
for some depressing reading. According
to a 2006 study of female veterans spon-
sored by the Dept. of Veterans’ Affairs,
an estimated 23%-33% of all female

misconceptions

veterans were sexually‘ assaulted during
their time in the various branches of the
US military. Meanwhile, the rate of sex-
ual assault among women in the general
population of the US is l7%. For the re-
cord, 14.6% ofthe US military is female.

Everyone would agree that this is dis-
turbing, but where I differ with critics»
of increased female participation in the
military is the logic that such participa-
tion would inevitably lead to more sexu-
al assaults. Taking a look at-the effects of
women’s presence in the Israel Defense
Force may prove helpful to this discus-
sion. Israel has allowed women in front-
line combat roles (consistently) since
2000, and they currently make up 3% of
the IDF’s combat soldiers, 33% of all its
soldiers, and 51% ofits ofﬁcers. Further-
more, of all the positions that exist in the
IDF-—from private to general—women
can be found in 69% of them. Despite
this high prevalence of women, 1 in 7
(14.2%) female Israeli soldiers will be
sexually assaulting during their service,
nearly 3% less than will be assaulted in
the US general population.

The point is, that simply having more
women in a military doesn’t automati-
cally guarantee that more sexual assaults
will occur. Further, more women in the
military doesn’t automatically reduce the
combat effectiveness of a military; Israel
stands as proof to both of these state-
ments. If a nation as besieged as Israel
can maintain a ﬁght force as effective

and efficient as the IDF with such a high
proliferation of women, there is no rea-
son the US military cannot do the same.
Personally, I feel that if anyone can meet
the physical, mental, and emotional re-
quirements of service in the US military,
male or female, they should be allowed
to serve in any position to which they
are suited. To bar a qualiﬁed person’
from service simply because of their”
sex is not only discriminatory, but 

it is incredibly short-sighted. In,,f,
an era where the US military is 
accepting convicted felons in 
order to boost recruitment_,.{
numbers, turning away ,' 
willing volunteers on I

such an arbitrary and un-

founded fear is ridicu-

lous. Then again, it is

easier to simply bar

women than actu-

ally address the

issue of sexual

assault in the

military.

Giving credit where it is due

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Colleges ought to give credit for in-
temships, for'many reasons. ,

First, according to a 2012 survey by
the National Association of Colleges
and Employers, more than half of re-

cent college graduates had had intem-
 hips while undergraduates. These
‘days, internships, especially at colleges
as well-rounded as W&L, are nearly
 requisite to- a fulfilling collegiat ‘é}ipe-
__Yet some particularly elite colleges

     

,; \zir,l;rich,.,they suppose, falls fat short of

which these institutions may make the

 
  
 

 

are against granting credit for-"Work 

   

-‘::.;tl1e._1'igor of their typical worlgloagfg . 
  There are, however, variousways by?‘

  

cubiclea bit more like tl1ep,classroom.p_.p

Essays, intemship-related coursework
and reﬂective blogs all help to intel-
lectually stimulate both the intern and
scholar in today’s college-age person.
Internships also beneﬁt students
and schools alike. Students, on the
one hand, get more bang for their (par-
ents’) buck by working while learning.
- This work, rather than waiting tables or
pumping gas, is within a student’s ﬁeld’
‘~ of interest. Schools, on the other hand,
 ,berf:ef’it  "having more of their gradu-
ates, duejto internship experiences, be
placedin be/tter-paying, jobs in ﬁelds
;  ' ggteako their talents.
  , gberal arts college, even
_j_‘one,_La,S ‘prototypical as -ours, can give
‘credit for .inten1ships. "Q I 

   

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

l.

 

Ema fa at LEE Ill

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop' in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am — 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

www.|eehi.com See our menu online

. ' Twitter @berkysfood ”  Find us on Face book

540-463-3478

 

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY,’ FEBRUARY 4, 2013

arts&life

 

Roses are red, Violets areblue: Valen

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER .

Valentine’s Day is quickly approach-
ing. Men, it’s time to swallow your pride
and venture down the pink and red aisle
of Hallmark and buy into the holiday. On
average, each person spends about 125
dollars on the 14th, mostly on jewelry
(if you get my drift, boys). It’s a tall or-
der for a college student to live up to the
hype and to make the day memorable.

If you’re going to go big, you might

I as well do it right. 220,000 marriage

proposals occur on Valentine’s Day. My
goal isn’t to get you down the aisle, but
through the day without disappointing
that special someone. Trust me when I
say that messing this up is worse than
getting stuck at Windfall after Traveller
stops running.

If you’re an underclassman, and don’t
have the money to go big. You don’t need

to go home and give up by buying cheap
candy at Walmart (although it does boast
an impressive selection) - just take your
special someone out star gazing. Lexing-
ton is lucky to be surrounded by some
of the best scenery, all of which can be
reached by foot or car. Grab a blanket
and head over to the Ruins. The stars are
way better than a movie (which is certain
to be ﬁlled with many high-school age
couples that you’ll want to avoid).

If you do have a car, I suggest driv-
ing through the Blue Ridge Parkway
as a beautiful getaway. Its entrance is
located past Buena Vista by ﬁve miles,
and the signs lead you right out onto the
parkway. There are great stops along the
way, including an old train track, water-
fall and multiple scenic viewing sites.
Google directions to decide where to get

Tate a B!“ auto Lot

l he Red Hen is possibl_\ the best upscale res-
taurant in to\\n. lleautiliilly designed as a barn
nestled bet\\een the brick buildings on W: '
ington Street. the Red Hen is a \\onderliIl oz .
tor the taste buds. ’|'he presentation is iInpee-
cable \\ith colorllll art\\ork and an open kitchen
equipped \\ ith a \\el|-stocked bar.

Starter prices are S to ll dollars \\hile en-
trees range lroni IX to 35. lhe proper 3-course
dale \\ould probabl_\ run you arotind ninety dol-
lars. ()l'course. the Red Hen is InoI'e for special
occasions than lirst dates (there are ten step—ups
ll-om the Red Hen ityou start so big).

.\lll1ough the prices are stc w. the food is
ama/ing. "l he l:d\\ard of Surry VA Peanut l"ed
.\'urr_\ano \\as an aina/ing combination of com-
meal “_iohnn_\ cakes" topped \\ith perfectly cured
ham. pickled carrots. quail egg. and a surpI'is—
in«__vl_\ delicious maple hot sauce.

lot" the main course. I enjoy ed the special
ol'roasled duck breast on spael/le topped \\ ith
a chestnut sauce. lhe duck \\as phenoinenal.
and the entree ol‘ Shrimp Stalled V" ‘ginia (‘oast
Flounder pro\ ed to me that the chels at the Red

Hen can cook meat \\ith expert per-
The lish \\ as \\ ell bala-
nced \\ ith potatoes and‘
broccolini cm ered in a
jalapeno butter sauce (hot
‘trough to a\\e. bttt not to

shock).

I ended \\ith Dark Chocolate l3"‘te Noir for
o ganaehe

dessert. lleautiltilly presented est

topped uith homemade wliipped Ill, I could

not have picked a better treat. lhe Bete Noir is

easily split. and considering that Iny table at the
Red Hen was shared by the two of us, it was a

great date night dessert (no mess_ ‘Lady in the

'liI‘aInp“ style noodles. but still oh-so-romantic).
I,uek_\‘ for you. the Red Hen is lraviiig :1 Val-

entine‘s Day Special at 55 dollars per person for

a t'our—eourse Ineal. Il'you ean‘t make the Valen-
' ‘ ay event. the restaurant is liaving a “Vir-

‘l.o\ers“ liour-course dinner with wine

llth. The Red lien is a

e night setting with

fantastic food and a \\'0l‘l(lCl'llll atmosphere. Call
ahead for reser\ations (and seriously. call soon,
or you‘ll miss out on the chance to impress that

off and rest, or you could just decide to
keep driving until dawn.

If you are single on Valentine’s Day,
it’s the perfect night to catch up on amaz-
ing television. Start a 30-day free I-lulu
trial and enjoy the night in. Or Macado’s
is a great place to go with the gang for a
fun meal on the town without worrying
about all “the hype.”

Either way, Valentine’s Day is a great
excuse for everyone to indulge a little
and eat way too much chocolate. Don’t
worry if you forget to take my advice
now: l’ll have some last minute ideas for
you next week, so keep your heart and
eyes peeled!

T/ie Reef?-[en

signiﬁcant someone).

tine’s Day is here

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSTIY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS.

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG ,

ALLIE WEISS .
SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO
HAMLET FORT
LEAH GOSE
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
MARIELPEARL
BAILEY RUSSELL
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS

MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which'can be reached at
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE_'
RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRlPT_|ON RATE $45

“Rise Up” to the challenge

By Josh White '
STAFF WRITER

Climbing is one of the few unique
outdoor activities that is not restricted to

"a certain time of year. That’s because it

doesn’t always have to be outside! Rise
Up Climbing Gym, located in nearby
Lynchburg, is only about an hour’s drive
away. A single adult day pass costs $13,
which includes access to all of the fa-
cilities and various walls. An few extra
bucks will cover the fee of equipment and
gear rentals.

Climbing is one of my personal favor-
ite activities, and it is a great way to relax
and have fun after a stressful week. The
combination of the adrenaline you get
from dangling up to forty feet in the air
(Rise Up’s highest wall), and the satisfac-
tion of getting in touch with your inner
primate, creates a uniquely exhilarating
feeling.

My experience at the gym was fantas-
tic: the friendly and laid-back staff is ea-
ger to make the best out of everyone’s ex-
perience, regardless of the climber’s prior
knowledge and history. The vibe in the
gym itself is chill, and the music selection
is very agreeable and suits the atmosphere
well.

V For those with more clirnbing_expe-

 

 

rience, the gym requires only a brief test
before you can belay (ﬁxing the rope
around a partner to secure yourself). For
the newbies out there, there is no better
place to start than here: the staff is trained
and have the resources on hand to teach
the belaying technique quickly, for only
a small price. There were a few people
on our trip who took the class for the ﬁrst
time, and were belaying each other on
their own that same day!

The gym consists of two sections, one
for bouldering and one for top rope and
lead climbing. For those with climbing
experience, the roped section of the gym
ranges through grade 5.12 (very high level
of diﬁiculty) and the bouldering section
up through v.7 (moderately-highly chal-
lenging level). Of course, there is a wide
selection of offerings for beginners as
well, with more than half of the gym de-
signed to be within reach for a ﬁrst timer.

Perhaps the best part about the trip

(or any outdoors trip) is getting to know

some people you might not have other-
wise gotten a chance to meet, or building
on previous friendships. What better way
is there to get close to somebody than to

  

trust them to be there and catch u if ou

C’/zeae it out!

7225  .S)t
Cg/uxﬁbmg, U19
24504

   

/434/ 845-7625

fall? Climbing itself is a very social ac-
tivity, and further opportunities await dur-
ing the scenic and mountainous drive on
the way to the gym. If you go with the
Outing Club, you are sure to make some
new friends, as well as have some great
conversations.

The next time you ﬁnd yourself with
free time, I highly recommend you go
climbing. Not only is it a great workout,
but it is also a great way to hang out with
friends. So quit wasting time, get your
game face on, and get out there!

 

 

 

MO N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&Iife

. Teac

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

What if you could change the lives
of young students everywhere? What if
you were given the opportunity to make
a real, lasting impact soon after gradua-
tion? What if you could pass on the love
of learning to ﬁiture generations, for
years ‘tocome’?

Photo courtesy of Wikimedia commos.

With Teach for America (TFA), you
can do all of this - and more. As one of
the most prestigious non-proﬁt organi-
zations to work for post-graduation and
one of Forbes’ 100 Best Companies to
Work For in 2012, TFA is dedicated to
making a difference in low-income com-

munities by producing lifelong leaders,
learners and educators.

For years, Washington and Lee has
maintained a strong partnership with
TFA. In fact, there are numerous alumni
located all across the nation who are
currently teaching or have ﬁnished their

time in the corps.

Joining the ranks of these dedicated
advocates will soon be the 13-17 seniors
from the class of 2013 who have been
accepted to the highly competitive pro-
gram and have committed to teach in
socio-economically disadvantaged com-
munities all over the country.

Some of these students have always
been passionate about TFA’s cause.
Many of them, however, had never even
considered TFA or teaching post—gradu-
ation until a few months ago, when they
learned about the organization and its
goals. A
According to its website, TFA aims
to “provide an excellent education for
kids in low-income communities... [by
recruiting] a diverse group of leaders
with a record of achievement who work
to expand educational opportunity.”

Selected students are placed in a
low-income community to teach for two
years, as part of a nationwide movement
to help the 16 million impoverished
American children overcome education
obstacles and achieve at the highest lev-
els.

Said TFA Recruitment Manager for
W&L Dana Cronyn, who taught biology
while serving as a 2010 Charlotte TFA
corps member: “Growing up 1 had an
excellent public school education that
provided me every opportunity 1 have
today and connected me to my passion.
Upon coming to college, I began to real-
ize that for the 16 million students grow-
ing up in poverty today, education does
not afford them opportunity.”

Added Cronyn: “After hearing ‘sto-
ries of TFA corps members changing
the lives of their students—helping stu-
dents attend college, taking students on
trips abroad, and teaching students to
love leaming—1 knew there was no bet-
ter way for me to have an impact after

h for America touches lives

graduation.”

In selecting its newest teachers, TFA
looks for candidates with “a deep belief
in the potential of all kids and a commit-
ment to do whatever it takes to expand
opportunities for students, demonstrated
leadership ability and superior inter-
personal skills to motivate others, and
respect for individuals’ diverse experi-
ences and the ability to work effectively
with people from a variety of back-

grounds,” among various other criteria.

“W&L students are uniquely poised
to make an impact in classrooms because
of the university’s strong emphasis on
achievement—both academically and as
campus and community leaders. Those
skills transfer directly to the classroom
and give W&L students the opportunity
to make a lasting impact,” said Cronyn.

TFA is currently the school’s top
employer, with the highest number of
students working with the organization
after graduation.

The ﬁnal application deadline for
TFA is Feb. 15. Seniors who are inter-

ested in pursuing this work can still ap-‘

ply, and any underclassmen who want to
learn more about TFA are welcome and
encouraged to contact Kalli Havens ‘l3.

“Your ﬁrst job out of college should
be one that helps you build to your fu-
ture career goals. Don’t be afraid to take
on a challenge and leverage the skills
you’ve been developing for the last four
years,” said Cronyn.

“There is no more prestigious, im-

, portant work after graduation than shap-

ing the future of our country. Imagining
a world where every politician, CEO,
and doctor has changed the lives of low
income students is why I continue this
work today.”

 

Business office _
offers direct deposit

ByAthena Cao
STAFF WRITER

Students no longer have to walk all
the way over to the Business Office to
get refunds. According to Associate Trea-
surer and Controller Deborah Caylor, the
Business Office now offers deposit reim-
bursements and account refunds directly
to students’ bank accounts. Students who
have set up direct deposit for their pay-
rolls need to sign up again in order to get
reimbursements and refunds.

Financial aid students or anyone who
has a credit balance in the university ac-
count can now get disbursement of re-
funds directly to their bank accounts.
Financial aid disbursements of refunds
for undergraduate students are made af-
ter Jan. 15th in the winter term and Sept.
15th in the fall term. Students who are
off campus during spring term can be re-
funded for the cost of the meal plan after
notifying Auxiliary Services:

To sign up for a refund deposit, a stu-

dent must have a bank account with an

American Banking Association (ABA)
routing number. Although the registra-
tion window is located in the Employees’
section in WebAdvisor, a student does
not need to be a student employer or a
work study student to sign up for the ser-
vice.

On the Employees page, click on
“Accounts Payable (Non-Payroll) Bank
Information (U.S.)” under the Finance
Information section. Then choose De-
fault Bank Account Information and
click “submit.” Fill in the required in-
formation, including the routing number,
account number, and account type, then
agree to the terms and conditions to sub-
mit the completed application. A conﬁr-
mation e-mail will be sent after the direct
deposit becomes effective.

For more information on how to set up
this service, contact the Business Office
at business@wlu.edu or call (540) 458-
8730 today.

   
       

Finance Tip of the Week: Save 57. of
your income for a rainy day fund. a

Saving money can be hard for a college student, but saving
a little bit at a time, consistently over an extended period, can

make a big difference when an emergency hits!

Meet Shana Levine ‘11

By Lindsey Burke
5 TA F F w R IT E R

For Associate Athletic Director Sha-
na Levine ‘ 1 1, her love of sports and
Washington and Lee never died post-
graduation.

After receiving an Bachelor of Arts
in Biology from W&L in 2011, earning
a law degree at the University of Pitts-
burgh, and working at the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association (NCAA) for
ﬁve years, Levine found herself back on
campus.

“I missed being on campus and see-
ing the rewards of that,” said Lev-ine. “I
love it here.”

Levine can be found in numerous lo-
cations around campus. As the Associate
Athletic Director, she oversees all athlet-
ic facilities, events and sports clubs, and
handles dining for sports teams. In addi-

 

tion, she teaches a spring term “Women
in Sport” class, and instructs Sports Cir-
cuit and Cycling classes every week.

During her time here, Levine was a
four-year letter winner and a team cap-
tain for the W&L soccer team; she then
served as an assistant women’s soccer
coach at Carnegie Mellon University.
Now, she incorporates her leadership
and team experience into her group ex-
ercise classes.

“My classes bring the team sport
mentality and carry it over to the gym,”
said Levine. “I pull a lot of exercises
from past workouts that I’ve had to do
as an athlete.”

Levine eliminates monotony from her
Cycling classes by replicating an outside
bike riding experience. A representative

the house was vacant.

 

[GREEK ll-.[lFlE lt\lllE'l*llll§:
EJEEJ '\1?'@llll E§[l§ll@l‘ll’7'§’

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF WRITER

l]... The vacant Phi Kappa Delta fraternity house may be used next year for
upper-classmen housing. A tentative plan, which includes co-ed living,
with one ﬂoor for males and one ﬂoor for females, is currently in the works.

2:. The ”No-Tuesday”adjusted schedule of New Member Education has
been followed well by fraternities, with only one instance of a violation.

3.: Any fraternity which has been previously kicked off campus must fulﬁll
the criteria set by the school, as well as their own nationals, in order to
return. This may include paying back rent to the school for the years that

4]‘: The IFC has created a template for New Member Education to aid
fraternities that do not have a well-developed program. Members of the
IFC will be assigned to certain fraternities to discuss how a certain chapter's
program matches up with the new template.

5.. The "Lexington Triad” refers to the three fraternities originally formed
here in Lexington: Kappa Alpha at W&L, and Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma
Nu at VMI. All three were established during the Reconstruction period
following the Civil War. '

(5.. According to the U.S. News and World Report, W&L‘is the highest ranked
university out of all schools with student bodies that are over 50% Greek.

workout with continuous music is her
priority.

“I blend all of the songs together us-
ing software so there’s not a break [be-
tween songs],” said Levine. “ If you’re
outside climbing a hill, you don’t get to
stop every three minutes just because the
song changes.”

In Sports Circuit, she combines car-
dio and high repetition/low weight lift-
ing, while also using music as a tool
to keep her students engaged. Because
these classes are so different, Levine said
she couldn’t pick a favorite one.

According to Levine, her ability to
interact with students and athletes was

one of the main reasons she came back to ‘
\ W&L. Getting to know .her students on

a more personal level is an added incen-

.2)

tive for teaching group exer-
cise. In the Cycling and Sports
Circuit classes, she forms re-
lationships that go far beyond
the classroom.

“I really like how I get to
know students in a whole dif— _
ferent way in group exercise,”
she said. “It’s‘a great way to
see students with their guard
down, not worrying about
grades.” '

Students and faculty can
attend Levine’s Cycling class-
es on Tuesdays and Thursdays
at 12:15 p.m. Her Sports Cir-
cuit classes are Mondays and
Thursdays at 7:30 a.m. and
Monday evenings at 5 p.m.

  

‘B ‘ THE RING-TUM PHI 0

Wh did. ou.get involved with‘

the abors ervice League (NSL)?

For four years all students call
Lexington our home, yet, unless
wevare Eroactivelyseekin to learn
about t e agencies that
dents, we may as well be_estran ed
visitors. I got involved with NS to
learn about Lexington and the sur-
rounding area through service, and
to help other W&L‘studen_ts become
excited about serving their home.

What is_ your favorite aspect of
volunteering in exington.

The eople. Volunteering is one
form 0 networking. Some of the

service rendered may not be very

glamorous, _but eople notice and
appreciate it. I ave met tens of
community leaders and enuine-
ly kind-hearted people w o I am
lucky_to call friends through serv-
ing with them. i

What has been the highlight of
your winter term so far?

Organic chemistry.’ (Not really.)

elp resi- ‘

?SarahIrIardman «lg 

‘V  Meet the star of A rsenic and Old Lace, playing Feb.

.-

_Best part about winter in Vir-
gmta?_

Sunrise after a snowfall on the
Colonnade-. Magical.

Favorite class this semester?

Dean Strau han’s Marketing
Management US-211).. It’s a
business _ class yet is quintessen-
tially a liberal arts course because
of its seminar style. A very tan ible
subject with lots of real-worl _ap—
plication for all types of organiza-
tions whether they are corporate,
governmental, or nonproﬁt.

What are you doing over Feb
break?

I will be serving at a free clinic in
my hometown. i

What do you want to do when
you graduate?

Investment banking.
If_ you could make u your own

ipgtng Term class, w at would it
e.

Stephanie Foster ‘16

A swimmer speaks on the ODA CS, D—hall and more  if it it i ‘V

3-2

 

gnaw

Microﬁnance in F1_]l.
A George or Bob?

He’s on the currency for a rea-
son: George.

The best W&L tradition 
why? .

' Strong alumni ties. It is incred-
ibly easy to talk to any alum face-
to-face or on the phone. Graduates
are always happy to help current
students and given the diversity of
grofessionals, it’s not difﬁcult to

rid someone who has made it in
your dream career.

MONDAY,

= arie ear
TAFF WRITER

Bayan Misaghi ‘15g

This Nabors Service League Chair shares his insights

FEBRUARY 4, 2013

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

The coveted Spring Term brings more
than just a warm weather, interesting
academics, and frequent festivities. It
also offers some unique opportunities to
spend your four weeks challenging your
comfort zone and learning new skills,
all while earning a P.E. credit. Whether
you’re SCUBA diving in Lake Rawlings
or mountain biking on Carvin’s Cove,
you will enjoy your time taking a Spring
Term P.E.

Through SCUBA, students will learn
the procedures of open-water diving
and earn lifetime certiﬁcation through
NAUI. James Dick, Director of Student
Programming and Outing Club, leads
the course with instructors Pam and Matt
Landrum of. Roanoke Island Outﬁtters
and Dive Center. Students will spend
the.ﬁrst week of the course on campus,
in the classroom and the pool. The
course concludes the next weekend with
a camping trip and open water dives in
Lake Rawlings, Va.

Dick, who has been certiﬁed for about

10 years now, understands that diving for
the ﬁrst time can be a little nerve-wrack-
ing. But helping people get out of their
comfort zones to experience something
adventurous is truly remarkable, he said.

“One of my favorite experiences while
diving is to look at the beginner student’s
eyes underwater while they are doing it
for the ﬁrst time,” Dick said. “Their eyes
are usually really big, and they break
into a big smile and look so happy and
thrilled.”

Students can seek other adventures
while trekking the mountains surround-
ing Lexington and Roanoke. Washing-
ton and Lee’s Head Soccer Coach Rolf
Piranian has been offering a mountain
biking course every Spring Term for 25
years. With a bike as the only requisite,
beginners and up are encouraged to join.
Every Monday, the class will venture out
for an afternoon of prime biking.

“Prepare to break a sweat and prepare
to be physically challenged” Piranian
said The course progresses in difﬁculty,

with the longest rides range from one to
two hours.

Within Carvin"s Cove in Roanoke are
some of Piranian’s and the students’ fa-
vorite trails. From Enchanted Forest to
Songbird. these trails offer some really
enjoyable rides.

As one of the most popular P.E.’s,
Mountain Biking also attracts people of
the community. Furthermore, Piranian
noted that seniors who take the class re-
gret not taking it sooner. And students
who do have the opportunity to take it
early on in their college career often reg-
ister for it again.

So don’t be the one to regret never get-
ting SCUBA certiﬁed or mountain bik-
ing while you had the chance to during
school. Take full advantage of Spring
Term and register for one of the many
interesting and popular P.E. courses of-
fered.

55;.

-‘'‘.$‘‘ , ..

-“tit

Hz; /1; [it

Last weekend the -national spotlight
shone brightest on two College Basketball
powerhouses, Michigan and Indiana. In a
matchup between two top ﬁve teams (Indi-
ana ranked #3 and Michigan #1), the teams’
stars duked itout for supremacy and atten-
tion on the highest stage. Michigan’s Trey
Burke and Indiana’s Cody Zeller have both
made their cases for the Wooden Award,
which goes to the best player of the year.
However, the player who most deserves the
award this season plays in a conference far
away from conferences like the Big Ten and
the Big East. That player is Doug McDer-
mott, who is quietly leading #21 Creighton
to a 20-3 record and to the top of the Mis-
souri Valley Conference.

McDermott’s situation at Creighton is

very unique, as Doug McDermott is actual-
ly coached by his father, Greg McDermott,
who has been head coach of the BlueJays
for the past three years. Because of this
Doug McDermott is especially obliged to
play unselﬁsh, team basketball. This is well
reflected in the BlueJays’ team statistics.
Creighton is leading the nation in ﬁeld goal
percentage at 52%, and seventh in the na-
tion in points per game, with 79.0. This is
indicative of the unselﬁsh brand of basket-
ball the team has bought into.

Creighton’s team success has been im-
pressive, and has lead to more media atten-
tion, but Doug McDermott’s personal suc-
cess is truly what puts him head and shoulders
above the rest of the ﬁeld. Doug McDermott
is averaging 24 points and 7.3 rebounds in
only 31.1 minutes per game. McDermott
is the nation’s second =leading scoring, and
ﬁrst in points per '40 minutes. McDermott
does this all as an undersiied forward. He
has been considered a “twe§ener” without a

7,?

6.

real position. He" plays toomuchi like 
man to be considered a small forward, and’ .
at 6-8, he is slightly undersized for the vpow_- r

er forward position. This just dem”on'strates
how much . I F ' '
harder McDer-
mott I works
than everyone
else, a senti-
ment that has
been echoed by
his teammates.
McDermott

hustles hard ev-
ery game, and
for that reason
he draws a lot
of compari-
sons to former
Wooden Award
winner, Tyler
Hansborough.
With Creighton
poised to ﬁnish
out the season
strong, McDer-
mott should
have a great
post season,
boosting his
stock during * ‘ ‘ V

March Madness as the general public will
be able to see his unique andpotent ‘skill
set on National Television. Jimmer. Fredette
proved in 201 1 that the Wooden Award does

not always go to the best player in the stron-

gest conference. McDermott, based on his
skill set, statistical greatness, and‘ team suc-
cess will again show this to be the case in
2013.

It seems that a new la er has been in the
NCAA Men’s Basket al spotlight each week.
Which one deserves to be player of the year?

Kyle and Hailey give you their picks

\\\.\\\.‘x.‘\ \\\\\‘\\.‘s.‘\

» This season of college basketball has
been anything but predictable. It seems like
the number one seed is different every week,
and upsets are often you can’t keep track.

- The same can
be said for the
outlook of the
player of the
year. At the
start of the sea-
son Indiana’s
Cody Zeller
was lead-
ing the pack,
and at times
Duke’s Mason
Plumlee seems
like a shoe-in.
Both play-
ers are still
in contention
for the POY
award come
seasons end,
but frontrun-
ners including
Michigan’s
Trey Burke
and Creigh-
ton’s Doug
McDermott
are building their cases for the award with
each game.

Michigan’s Trey Burke is easily the best
point guard in the nation, and is arguably
the best player in the nation. He is currently
leading the number one team in the nation,

0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

sports

  pring Term PE offers uniqe experinces

Students biki down one of the trails

a

(pending the resultof the Indiana game)
with a commanding court presence. Michi-
gan’s only loss came with Burke’s worst
game of the season. He is a leader through
his dominating play and his conﬁdence in
the team.

Burke‘s biggest downfall is his lack of
spectacular numbers. He doesn’t lead the
nation in points, ﬁeld—goal percentage or
rebounds; his stat closest to commanding
is assists in which he stands at seventh in
the nation. While his name may not top any
charts, his game is the all around most solid.
He puts up consistent numbers each game.
He averages 17.9 points and 7.1 assists per
game. His game play reﬁects an unselﬁsh
player who uses his strengths to win the
game, whether that means taking the shot or
ﬁnding the man with the open shot.

Burke’s response to Michigan’s loss to
Ohio State has shown his resiliency and de-
termination to lead his team. A great team
that continues to show Burke’s skills sur-
rounds him. The fact that he is currently on
the number one team in the nation will only
help to bring more exposure to his great play
this year. Ifhe keeps up his level of play the
remaining two months ofthe season I think
we’ll see Michigan continue to dominate.
And if we see Michigan do well the remain-
der of the season, which includes two game
against Indiana and Michigan State and a
rematch against Ohio State, I think we can
consider Burke a top contender for the POY
award.

  

8 ' THE RING-TUMCPHI -

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

S p 0 T TS  

 

in the numbers
4-0

The run that the Boston Celtics have gone on since losing
Rajon Rondo to a torn ACL earlier in the season.Four-time
All-Star was averaging 13.7 points per game before the

season-endinginjury.

228

The total number of games in a row lost by the California
Institute of Technology baseball team before they defeated
Pacifica in the second game of their double-header on Sat-

urday. The team had not won a game since Feb. 15, 2003.

9ﬁ38J68

The new high school indoor 2-mile record. 16-year-old Mary
Cain set the record on Saturday at the New Balance Indoor
Grand Prix. She topped the old record, set by Melody Fair-

child in 1991, by over 17 seconds.

soapbox

‘‘I couldn’t be more optimistic about it
because the game of football has always
evolved... we’ve made changes to our
game, to make it safer, to make it more
exciting, to make it a better game for the
players, for the fans, and we have clone that
in ,a very calculated fashion.”

-NFLOommlselonerRo¢erGoodellaI'terbelri¢aslradlI'he
wouldwanthlschlldtnplqyfootball In an lnlnrvlewwlth
cBS’s'FaoetheNatlon'afawhoursbeforiethesuperBowl
onSundqy,fiomEsPN.oom

“We certainly want him back, but like with
any player, there’s a limit to where we’re
going to go. He's been a terriﬁc player for
us, he’s a fan favorite, he does a lot for our
franchise, but there is a limit.”

- NewYbrkGlanls co-ownerlohn Mara aboutlllctorcnz
when lalldngaboutcontracrswfdireportaronsaurrdqy.
Marasaldthatl-laleenNlcl¢s’oontractlsahI¢herpr1orltn
llomESPN.com

  I-i\thlef the Week

 

Senior Rachel Warrick lead the women’s
basketball team with a combined 32 points this
week against Virginia Wesleyan and Bridgewater.
She also tallied nine rebounds and ﬁve assists.

ondeck

Gennies u

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

Saturday Jan. 26, the Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team shot 51.9 percent from
the ﬁeld (27-52) to upend Virginia Wesleyan,
69-68, at the Warner Center. It was the first
time the Generals beat the Marlins since De-
cember 2, 2001.

The Generals led by one with 4:19 left on
the clock, before sophomore forward Patrick
O’Connor-nailed a three-pointer to up the lead
to four, 59-55. VWC’s senior point guard Tre
Ford scored a pair of free throws on the ensu-
ing possession to get back with two.

Senior forward .l.D. Ey pushed the advan-
tage to 61-57 with a layup with 3:20 remain-
ing. A couple of free throws by Chris Teasley
of the Marlins made it a two-point game with
just under three minutes left to play.

After an offensive rebound by ﬁrst-year for-
ward Andrew Franz, O’Connor nailed a comer
three while being fouled, and connected a free
throw to push the lead to six, 65-59, at the 2:40
mark. Senior guard Kelton Buchanan then got
two free throws to give W&L an eight-point

/at .~*

p',/

First-year Andrew Franz takes a shot
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

From the

By Pat McCarron
STAFF WRITER

Coach Marc Vartabedian
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

as

_ _ 

lead (67-59) with 2:18 left in the game.

VWC scored nine ofthe next 11 points, led
by a three and a layup by Teasley to get within
one, 69-68, with 25 seconds left. Then Teas-
ley stole the ball as the Gennies attempted
to break the Marlins’ press with 15 seconds
left. Teasley looked to have an easy layup to
steal the lead, but Ey blocked the ball into
the stands with 13 seconds left on the clock.
On the final possession the Generals defense
forced the Marlins into a long three-point at-
tempt that missed wide left.

Franz led the Generals, coming close to a
triple-double. He ﬁnished with 18 points (on
8-of-14 shooting), a career-high eight re-
bounds, and a career-high seven assists.

He clearly followed his motto, “You have to
tolerate the set-backs,” and came out on top.

“The fans bring a lot of energy to the game,
and we feed offof that,” Franz said about the
victory.

Ey led the team with 20 points and had eight
rebounds, four assists, three blocks and two

Last week, Washington and Lee announced
the hiring of Marc Vartabedian as assistant
coach for women’s tennis, ushering in more
than just a change in W&L’s coaching staff.

Coach Vartabedian has spent much of his
post-collegian years travelling from city to
city, and match to match. This is the type of
life demanded of professional tennis players.
For two years, Coach Vartabedian played As-
sociation of Tennis Professionals (ATP) Pro
Tour.

Now Coach Vartabedian ﬁnds himselfcoach-
ing in small-town Lexington, a sharp contrast
to his former on-the—go lifestyle.

“[Coaching in Lexington is] definitely a
change of pace... But it’s nice to settle in one
location. It’s the first time in two and a half
years that l’ve been in the same spot. lt’s very
relaxing,” said Coach Vartabedian.

A change of pace it is. From 2011-2012,
Coach Vartabedian traveled Europe com-
peting in professional doubles play, visiting
France, Italy, Serbia, Poland, Belgium and the
Netherlands.

Coach Vartabedian’s traveling continued
into last summer, when he served as the Na-
tional Team Coach for Tennis Europe. During
the tour, he coached nationally-ranked junior
players as they competed throughout Western
Europe. '

Coach Vartabedian began his coaching ca-
reer in 2008 as an instructor with the Southern

pset VaWes

steals. O’Connor added 11 points and tied a
career-high with six boards.

VWC started out with a 10-2 lead in the first-
four minutes of the opening half, but W&L
responded with an 11-2 run over the next six
minutes to take a 13-12 lead at the 9:49 mark.
The two teams went back-and-forth over the
ﬁnal 10 minutes of the half, with the Gennies
taking a 27-26 lead into, the break.

Along with their 51.9 percent shooting from
the ﬂoor for the contest, the Generals went
4-of-11 (36.4 percent) from the three-point
line and ll-of-16 (68.8 percent) from the char-
ity stripe.

The Marlins out-rebounded W&L, 37-31,
but the Generals had 19 assists compared to
eight for VWC.

The victory ended a 23-game losing streak to
the Marlins, and was the first home win over
Virginia Wesleyan for the Generals since Jan-
uary 2, 2000. It also ended VCW’s six-game
winning streak dating back to January 5.

 
 
  

pros to Div. III

California Tennis Academy. The organization
trains nationally-ranked high school juniors
and seniors.

Although a ﬁrst-time collegian-level coach,
Coach "Vartabedian already has considerable
coaching experience and knowledge from his
previous positions.

“I learned how to handle different players
and game types, because everyone has differ-
ent strengths and weaknesses. Coaching is all
about seeing what a player does well,” said
Coach Vartabedian.

Despite being new to W&L and perhaps un-
used to Lexington’s small community after
years on the road, Coach Vartabedian already
feels at home. Recently, he has been working
the men’s basketball game clock.

This year, the women’s tennis team will
adopt a new assistant coach. Coach Vartabe-
dian has already adopted a new lifestyle.

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 7 Friday Saturday
Basebaii vsRochester12and3pm
Menis Basketbaii vsE&H7pm atRandolph4:30pm

Women's Basketball vsE&H7pm atLynchburg7pm vsHol|ins2pm

Rid i n g at Bridgewater 4 pm at Randolph/Lynchburg IHSA Sweet Briar IHSA
W o m e n ’ s S w i m m i n g ODAC Championships ODAC Championships ODACs

T r a c k Lafayette—Rider Winter Games

W I, e S t I i n g ‘ vs Roanoke 4:30 pm at Gettysburg 12 pm

  

 
 
 

 

   
 

'f527z;_.I5$
5 Z
v. I/(p
Vl0.I5

 

    

.L¢vsunaLtveaatsmbaea+emn.aega»ef .

A ‘ opmious / page 3 A I .  ,

" "-ct. j 

W&L swimmers broke six records at the
A ODACchamfjionships thisweekend

rccorals,sol£tttctivw:!

 "i   . I SPORTS / page8

   WASHINGTON AND LE U

 

f THE RING-TUM PHI.

  PiKA sus

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

By Neil Haggerty
N EWS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee University
community will have the opportunity
to witness the honor system at work in
a Student Body Hearing on Thursday in
Lee Chapel.

A student was found guilty in a closed
hearing by the Executive Committee
and decided to appeal this hearing to
the W&L community. If the accused is
found guilty in this hearing, he or she
will be dismissed from the University.
If the student is not found guilty, all re-
cords from the hearing will be destroyed
at the end of the academic year.

THE PLAY'ERS

The President of the Student Bar As-
sociation, Amy Conant Law ’ 13, will act
as the chair of the Student Body Hear-
ing. Conant appointed Benjamin Willson
Law ’ 14 as the Sergeant-at-Arms, who is
in charge of logistics for the event.

According to the White Book, the ac-
cused student may have up to three
honor advocates in the open hearing.
The Executive Committee ofthe Student
Body may also have three of its mem-

bers acting as advocates for their side of
the case.

The hearing will be judged by a jury
of members of the student body. Sev-
enty-ﬁve students are initially chosen
at random by the University Registrar,
according to the White Book. These stu-

dents will then be interviewed in order to '

determine that there are no conflicts of
interest involving this speciﬁc hearing.

Of the 14 jurors ultimately chosen for
the hearing (two of them are alternates),
four must be from the same school (un-
dergraduate or law) as the accused and
no more than four can be members ofthe
same graduating class, according to the
White Book.

TIIE Pl{OCESS

The accused student may choose to
withdraw from the University at any
point before the hearing, but the White
Book requires‘ that the W&L community
be informed of a potential Student Body
Hearing seven days before the actual
hearing.

If the accused does not choose to

THE I{I.ILES

1 . NO II\'1“()R.\[.\’l‘IO\’ I“I{g().\-I :TI’I’I<] SIl‘I 'l)El\"I“

B()l)‘{.j;IIl*li\RI1\'(’: i\ri\\'7r:ii¥:ii\'1«; 'I‘IIiI11W\\’&I. (.‘:()1\I.i-

.\I17.\'I'l Y.

2 . )IEv.\rIBI<3RS ()I<‘ TIIE \V&L gT()B'lAI‘,YX ITY
;\II'ST PRESENT A PROPER '\V&L II)I<‘.\"I‘Il*‘I(i‘,=-\-
TION T() BE A]);\[ITTEI) I.\,’—T() LEE (,‘-IIAPEL. g

3. LEE CHAPEL'ATTIRE IS REQUIRED

4:. THE F‘OLL()\\'ING ITEl\IS ARE PROHIB-
ITED  LEE (‘IIAl’EL: I

-I\’OTEPADS AND PENS

-BOOK BAGS AND PURSES

-BIOBILE AND I.\'TER.\'ET DEVICES

-(.‘Al\IER.v\S

-RE(‘()RI)IN(} DE\'I(‘ES

-FOOD OR DRINK

 

withdraw, the hearing will move for-
ward, starting with the Chair reading the

‘ charge of the accused. Then, both the ac-

cused or an advocate of the accused and
the Executive Committee advocates may
issue opening statements.

Both parties may call upon any wit-
nesses from a list that they must give to
the Chair 24 hours before the hearing,
according to the White Book.

Witnesses from both parties will then
be called to speak about the case. Wit-
nesses may be questioned by the ac-
cused, the advocates of the accused, the
Executive Committee advocates and any
member of the jury, according to the
White Book

These witnesses are obligated to ap-
pear upon being summoned, according
to the White Book.

Witnesses will be excluded from the
hearing when they are not giving their
testimonies. At the discretion of the
chair, they may remain in the hearing af-
ter their testimonies, but those who are
allowed to remain cannot be recalled, ac-
cording to the White Book.

Both parties may make closing state-
ments after all witnesses present their
evidence. Then the Jury will deliberate
privately.

Thejury will vote in a ballot form and
those ballots will be counted by the Chair

._‘~_N g

 

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUl)ENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXVll,NUMBER15

 Appeal calls for Studen

THESCHEDULE

-DOORS OPFN: 8iA..\I.

-HEARING 'BE(-}INS: 9 ..t.'.\r.

-LEAVE AND RE-ENTER: ./\1<"I‘ER ()l’l<].\‘-
ING S'IL\'l‘E1\I] <1;\"I‘S ANI) m«:'1‘wI«:1«;. * w1'1‘.\'i«:ssi«:s

-BREAK FOR LUN(.‘.I~I: 13]<:'1‘Wi«:1«1.\' 12 I’..\I.
AND 1_:3o1>.M. -

-D.(V)ORS REOPEN: 1 RM.

-I—IEARIN(} LASTS UNTIL i.»\ \'ERI)I("T IS
R EA( ‘H EI)
*11-‘ (.)I'}<]S'l‘I().\' or‘ \\'l’l‘.\'l<1SSl<JS l<1X(‘l«Jlv1l)S '().\‘l<)-II()l'l\’, 'rni«:
(‘IIAIR .\-IAY l)l.~J(?1l)l<l ’l‘() i.;i:1i«:1»‘m' <)m«:.\' DOORS FOR s'ri'i>i«:x'r's
2'l‘()l<}XI'l‘. A I

and the Sergeant-at-Arms. Eight “guilty”
votes are required for a guiltylverdict.

After votes are counted, the Chair will

‘announce the verdict, according to the

White Book. This verdict cannot be ap-
pealed.

tBody Hearing

   

 

Student Body Hearings are held in Lee Chapel. All members of the W&L Community are welcome
to attend the hearing, but must present a proper W&L ID card.

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF warren

Students living in the current Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity House were required to move out. They may

only use the house to eat meals and conduct chapter meetings.

  

.},

NEIL HAGGERTY/ News Editor

Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity was sus-
pended until the end of this academic
yean

After the weekend at the end of formal
rush week, the Ofﬁce of Student Affairs

was made aware of potential conduct vi- .
olations made by Pi Kappa Alpha frater- .

nity submitted by an anonymous source.
There was a subsequent investigation
that discovered multiple instances of

high-risk behaviors, including drinking, ,

during that weekend. _
The current process is that a report is
written by Student Affairs and sent to the
lnterfraternity Council (IFC) to rule on.
The IFC conducted a trial in which PiKA
was found guilty of being involved in
high-risk activities that went against the

' policies onnew member education set

by the IFC andtheschool. ' g p
The ruling by the IFC was to suspend

PiKA as an active fraternity chapter until

the end of the academic year. This ruling

demanded that the current members ,liv- '

ing in the fraternity must move out of the
house, as all Washington & Lee sopho-
mores must live in University-owned
housing.

Both the fraternity in question and the

school have the opportunity to appeal the I

decision by the IFC, but neither decided
to appeal as both parties agreed that it
was a ‘fair ruling. . I

In order to return to campus in thefall, ,

the fraternity must fulﬁll certain sanc-
tions issued by both the school and‘-the

PiKA nationals. The school asked the

fraternity to institute a chapter wide’
standards board, to restructure their new

pended for the year

member education, to participate in a
day of service and to ﬁnally publish a

_ letter of apology in this newspaper.

. Additional ‘sanctions imposed by the
fratemityis nationals were to send mem-
bers to national events and to form an
alumni board to deal with fraternity is-
sues.

Current PiKA President Dan Dent ’13
explained that although the fraternity is
disappointed in what took place, they are
conﬁdent that they will be back in full
force in the fall. .

_ “We intend to take this as a learning ex-

' perience asopposed to being bitter about

it,’-’ said Dent. He said he believeshis en-
tire fraternity shares the same views on
the subject.

Dent explained that he beliejges  fra-
ternity was given a fair trial iind iiéport,

and is happy with- the way they‘ have,

been treated by the IFC and the school.

Dent also said that the school has been
very helpful with the transition out of the
house; in providing housing in Woods

Creek and Gaines for the members.
‘PiKA is also __alTowe'd to continue to
have meals in the house, as well as chap-
ter meetings. T
Dean of Students Sidney Evans said
she was impressed byithe cooper‘ 

and‘ respectfulness the jactiiiesiland of-_

ﬁcers of; ‘PiKA Mdispliayed throughout
the entire-‘process. Evans stressed that
this«_cas’e“_.i’s_  important example of the

—scho0l’s'liero tolerance olic on an '
P Y Y

type of hazing or high-risk activities,
‘and encourages students tognot hesitate
to report any dangerous behavior.

  

FEB13 7013
- THE RING-TUM PHI -

  

2

IMASE--Eli~éGT{iN 8. EF.‘ Li'i.esiiii§s:1‘Y
LE);iix1GT0ll, VA 24450

 

MON DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

Making legal waves

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

5000
4500

G)

E 4000

£2

o

>-

+. 3500

C

M

.2

Ti 3000

CL

<:
2500
2000

2008

2009

Applicant volume to Washington and Lee Law 2008-2012. The top line represents actual applicants to W&L Law for the
ﬁve years (with a new 3L program introduced in 2009), while the bottom line represents Professor MoIiterno’s projection

4582

 

2010

for applicants had W&L not introduced its 3L program.

Washington and Lee Law garnered sig-
niﬁcant attention and respect in the legal
blogging world two weeks ago when
Indiana Law Professor Bill Henderson
deemed the law school “the biggest edu-
cation story of20l3.” .

At the end of January, Henderson post-
ed a comprehensive analysis of W&L
Law’s school survey known as the Law

School Survey of Student Engagement. _

According to Law Professor James Mo-
litemo, the survey was created and con-
ducted by Indiana University and com-
pleted by every W&L Law student.

According to wlu.edu, the LSSSE con-
sists of a series of 100 questions on an
array of topics. The questions focus on
information such as student-faculty in-
teraction, classroom environment, style
and number of exams and the extent to
which students feel prepared for the pro-
fessional world.

In his essay, Henderson said that the
W&L LSSSE showed substantial in-
creases both internally and externally
— W&L saw major improvement when
compared to its older school surveys, as
well as other top law programs through-
out the country.

As a result ofthese ﬁndings, Henderson
explained that for the ﬁrst time, there ex-
ists “empirical evidence that proves that
W&L is delivering a signiﬁcantly bet-
ter education to its [third year law] stu-
dents.” Henderson made such a distinc-
tion to third year students because the
structure of W&L’s law program during
the third year is quite different from other
law schools.

According to Molitemo, the ﬁrst two
years of law school at W&L are similar

   

tril m i

 Andreaioweni

$T”A‘FE-VIIRITER ,
“ ’_-‘A committee of ‘ four W&L professors
,‘.is'°preparing a possible ﬁlm'stu_dies mi-
%nor, for which a student poll will be re-

    
   
 

  

ftleaseii to ascertain interest. at A ‘ .

  “From many points of view, ﬁlm is the

. great‘,-‘art fonn .of?theJ20th century, and
 "e'.5are now in the 21st-century,” said
nglish Professor Edward Adams, who

   

  the ‘very few eh-tei‘sma1l_colleges I
‘-;'tliat“tioés not have a_ ﬁlm studies major
program or minor program.” I I
-15:. _ The ‘committee also consists of Andrea
 vep”ag’e;f‘rom theart history department,
Kathi‘ynfChenoweth from romance lan-
"l5jgx1a'g‘es,;‘and-Robeft .de Maria from jour-
P alisrnand masscommunications. 7 ;_ 0
“We have beenjstudying what isthe
i‘ \ est! and most feasible iijnodelforla ﬁlm
.',.§tudies minor atwashington and Lee,”
7,"¥s_aid?-Adams’. He said thatithetcommittee

 

   
  
   
  

o,th'er_usmalI colleges lilce'W&L have
_ ;,togéthe1;’under similar circumstanc-

  

 
 

 has few ﬁlm courses, theseiproduction
courses may, _'for now, include ,ones,1il<e* ~
photography, certain theaterc__ourses,”or' .
the_ screenwriting course which will (be I”

51;, af§paI"t:ofTthis conrmit-tee. “W&L is I

.-create the newminor was the iintroduc-2

if as been looking, at virhat ﬁlrnjprograms ’

 minor  -

to those of other schools. However, the
third year is centered on experiential
learning. It can be supplemented by one
traditional course during each semester if

the student would like to take that option.'

“In the W&L third year, every student
experiences the role of lawyer in clin-
ics, externships and elaborate simulation
courses such as immersions and practi-
cums,” Molitemo said.

Molitemo added . that at other law
schools, the third year curriculum simply
continues like the second year — students
choose elective courses throughout their
ﬁnal semesters in law school.

This differing third year structure is
fairly new to the law schools curriculum.
According to Molitemo, it was instituted
in 2009 and was originally optional.
Many students chose to participate and it
ofﬁcially became a requirement in 2011.
The LSSSE data have conﬁrmed that
students see a serious beneﬁt in the new
structure of3L.

“The data are striking. It reports sub-
stantial increase in third year student
engagement in their studies. They are
writing more, collaborating with other
students and faculty on projects more,
applying their learning to real world
problems more, engaging in more pub-
lic service and clinical experiences, and
they are more pleased with their educa-
tion than previous classes of W&L stu-
dents and their peers at other comparable
schools,” Moliterno said.

Henderson also highlighted other data
in his analysis that Molitemo presented
during a conference at the University of
Denver this past September.

During the Educating Tomorrow’s

most likely consist of six courses: an"
introductory course, a capst'one~course,'

4% I . ii

"Or I" t

3408

2080

2011 2012

Lawyers conference, Molitemo dis-
played a graph showing a large spike
in the number of applications received
by W&L Law in the last four years. The
graph compared W&L’s applicant pattern
with its new 3L curriculum, to its predict-
ed applicant pattern had the school not
changed the curriculum.

The graph shows that in 2010, with the
new curriculum, W&L received almost
two times the number of applications
that it would have received following the
traditional law school program.

Henderson wrote, “When many schools
are worried about revenues to survive
next year and the year after, ‘W&L is
worried about creating the bandwidth
needed to educate the surplus of students
who enrolled in the fall of 2012, and the
backlog of applicants whom the school
deferred to the fall of 2013.”

Molitemo said that he is conﬁdent fu-
ture surveys will continue to reflect the
same results as 2012.

Henderson acknowledged in his essay
that while the data are truly impressive,
there is of course, room for improve-
ment. However, Henderson emphasized
the point that W&L Law is at the fore-
front of legal learning and is a model
other schools should look after.

Concluding the narrative portion of his
analysis with a metaphor that cited W&L
as a Model-T and traditional law pro-
grams as horse-drawn buggies, Hender-
son said: “What ought to be plain to all of
us, however, is that, just like automobile
industry circa 1910, we are entering a
period of staggering transformation that
will last decades.”

 
     
 
   

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Tuberculosis outbreaks

Outbreaks of tuberculosis are on the rise in Africa, India and other develop-
ing countries. More than 400,000 people globally have developed a multidrug-
resistant fonn. On Tuesday, a report stated that this was due to the circulation of
fake or substandard drugs. Samples taken showed that many of the drugs given
out in these areas failed basic quality control tests.

Tech nocrat govt. pro

Hamdi Jebali, prime minister of Tunisia, put forth a proposal for an interim
government of technocrats. This proposal put him in opposition with his party,
Ennahda. In this time ofuncertainty for the nation Jebali believes this move will
be best for the state. He announced on Wednesday that if the proposal is not ac-
cepted, he will resign as prime minister.

Russian fighter jets in Japan

Japan’s foreign ministry reported on Thursday that two Russian ﬁghter jets
flew into Japanese airspace near Hakkaido. The Japanese had to quickly assem-
ble combat ﬁghters in response. The supposed intrusion took place in the middle
of Japanese rallies held for Northern Territories Day. Russia issued an oﬁicial
denial ofthe charge.

Camp Liberty attacked

Camp Liberty, a temporary transit camp in Baghdad, was attacked on Saturday.
The facility was being used to house Iranian exiles formerly living at Camp
Ashraf. Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general of the UN, condemned the mortar
attack and insisted on an investigation. Authorities are currently unsure who is
behind the attacks. ‘

Palestinianscamp in protest

In January, Palestinians began setting up tent camps in protest ofillegal Israeli
settlement plans in the E1 sector. The ﬁrst was a 24-tent camp outside of Jerusa-
lem and the second was just outside of Beit lksa. While Israeli forces removed
these camps, the activists continued to set up more camps on the West Bank.
Saturday marked the most recent destruction of these protest camps by Israeli
forces. Six people were arrested.

Opposition leader in Russia
arrested

Sergei Udaltsov, a prominent Russian opposition leader, was accused (along
with his group the Left Front) of provoking mass disorder to overthrow President
Putin. On Saturday a court in Moscow ruled to place him under house arrest for
two months. He will also not be allowed contact with family or lawyers during
this period. Udaltsov is denying all accusations. However, if found convicted of
all charges, he faces a ten-year prison sentence.

Conspirator against Indian
parliament arrested

Afzal Guru, a conspirator in an attack on the Indian parliament in 2001 that
killed at least nine people, was hanged for his involvement on Saturday. He
was originally sentenced to death in 2004 but the sentence was not carried out
until his mercy petition was rejected by the Indian president, Pranab Mukherjee.
Guru’s hanging is only the second to occur in India in almost a decade.

and four more courses distributed in  A if

three categories; additional ﬁlm courses,  1

visual culture courses and production ’
courses. ‘ ‘ ‘ “

Adams said that because W&L current__-  7 ‘

offered this spring term. .

Adams, who has been teaching film i

at W&L for years, said that one .or;m_e
things that prompted the initiative to,

tion of Professor Chenoweth. With both
Adams and Chenoweth able to teacli'the"

introductory ﬁlm course, now an ‘English ,
. course titled “Film,” the course may be  '

taught regularly. ’ .

He added that although there havebeen  . ‘ 

ﬁlm courses at W&L, having anfofﬁcial

“ minor may be beneﬁcial for various rea-
sons. ‘ .

“What I am hoping

is that ‘byghaving f A I

PFiDa'3' I. . CIT I('II;‘\l
l':|F~‘E7'L.".1Tf.‘.‘»R
'i?A‘.'iE RF‘.

£7! .t'«.T E SCI E N E

 

  

   

 

i

MON_DAY,

FEBRUARY 11, 2013

3 o

 

opinions

10 best ads of Su

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

If you’re like me, you look forward to the Super Bowl .every
year. Not because you’ve been following the teams throughout the
regular season, or because you have some deep-rooted sense of ap-
preciation for a game of this magnitude. In fact, if you’re like me,
you weren’t even 100% sure who was actually playing until about
ten minutes before the game started.

No, what you’re in it for is the commercials. _

_The Super Bowl is the most watched broadcast in America,
drawing an estimated l64.l million viewers this year—-that’s more
than any other game in Super Bowl history. It’s no wonder, then,
that running an ad during the game will set someone back $3.5 mil-
lion for every 30 seconds bought. For that kind of a price tag, and
with that size of an audience in mind, companies scramble each
year to make sure that their ad will be the most memorable. Such is
the competitive mindset that- has brought us the likes of Alec Bald-
win as an alien, Kim Kardashian mid-work—out, Mean Joe Greene
downing a kid’s Coke, and Betty White playing tackle football.

This year was no exception. The ads that ran during Super Bowl
}(LVII were alternatingly touching and hilarious, offering viewers

. {everything from an answer to the question “Where do babies come
I ‘ from?” to a miracle stain in the shape ofloe Montana. Here are the

top ten for 2013:

/\

A tribute to farmers everywhere, this commercial ﬁnds Paul Har-
vey giving a sermon about the eighth day ofcreation. “On the eighth
day," he says, “God looked down on his planned paradise and said,
‘I need a caretaker.‘ So God made a farmer." A testament to the bru-
tal work that farmers undertake day in and day out. this ad was less
about the truck and more about appreciating those who break their
backs to feed the nation. But maybe that’s a good thing-

5. Jeep Whole Again

 

Oprah Winfrey narrates this touching ad, which speaks to the.

men and women returning home from war. I held it together until
the very end, when a mother in fatigues hugs her daughter as Win-
frey attests, “Because when you’re home, we are more than a fam-
ily. We are a nation that is whole again.”

This coi11ntercialivvas hilarious for one reason: after a man spills
salsa on l1is_ier§ey and becomes the center ofattention in the sports
world whe‘n the stain bears the face ofloe Montana. he goes looking
for the jersey one day only to ﬁnd that it is no longer framed above
the mantle. When he asks his wife where thejersey went, she replies

nonchalantly that it had a stain on it. so she washed it. Then, with a ‘

. sly grin at the camera. she whispers. “Go Ravens.“

]. Budweiser Brotherhood

‘T .

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

The creators of this ad may be able to retire early—their work is
pure genius. A boy is playing with his football in a park, when the
neighborhood bullies steal the ball and challenge him to come back
only when he has a team. Instead of backing down, the boy shrugs
and goes to collect his teammates. His mother, driving her Hyundai,
picks up quite the cast of characters: a set of twins lifting weights, a
boy working in his father’s welding shop, another wrestling a griz-
zly, and ﬁnally a boy walking out of a burning building while carry-
ing a middle-aged» man to safety.

6. Doritos FashionistaDaddy

If you‘re a guy in your forties, you‘vevgot to really love Doritos
to blow offa pick-up game with your buddies and dress up in a pink
feather boa and tiara in order to snag some chips from your daugh-
ter. That‘s exactly what the father in this charming commercial did.
donning a full-blown makeover and pirouctting around his daugh-
ter‘s tea party while munching on his favorite snack. By the end. he
had all of his friends dancing right along with him.

§.

9. Kia Space Babies

 

“Daddy, where do babies come from?” It’s the question that par-
ents dread. But if you’re aparent that drives a Kia, the answer is
easy: they come from a planet ﬁlled with babies of all kinds, includ-
ing pandas and pigs, who are launched into space in a rocket ship
and sent to Earth to be with new families. It's pretty obvious that
Kia was going for the cute factor here, but if it works, it works‘,

 

' big thing,

per Bowl   

. a dozen times.

On his way home, a man eating Doritos spots a sign that reads
“Goat 4 Sale." You can almost see his thought process: Why not?
The man and the goat seem to live in Dorito heaven for a while, hap-
pily snacking on a few of the hundreds of bags of Doritos that are
kept in the house. It isn‘t long, though. until the idea of sharing his
chips drives the man to put the goat up for sale again. The closing
frame is ofthe goat cornering the man in his bedroom, looking none
too happy about the decision. I



Willem Dafoe plays Satan in this minute-long commercial. De-
spite the short timespan, this ad has the story arch and star-power of
a Hollywood hit. A man can buy a Mercedes car, and suddenly he’s
rubbing elbows with supermodels and singers such as Kate Upton
and Usher. Set to the music of the Rolling Stones, this commercial
appealed to men of all ages.

Featuring Seth Rogen and Paul Rudd, this ad ﬁnds the two actors
bickering about who is the “Next Big Thing” after discovering that
they are being cast in the same commercial. At one point, Rogcn
turns to Rudd and says, “Maybe in, like.” 1998 youwere the next
“ to which Rudd replies, “You make people physically
uncomfortable." lt‘s Judd Apatow-style humor at its best.

  

THE RING-TUM PHI °

Hands down the year’s favorite Super Bowl commercial, this
ad features Budweiser’s newest foal, Hope. I don’t think that any-
one can watch this commercial without tearing up. It starts with
a young horse being cared for by his owner, the two of whom
become friends as the years pass and the horse grows. Eventually,
the Budweiser truck comes and takes the horse to join the other
Clydesdales belonging to the company. Three years later, the man
goes to see his old friend in the Budweiser parade as it passes
through Chicago. Initially, it seems as though the horse doesn’t re-
member him, as it walks past without a second glance. At .the end,
though, the horse looks back and sees the man, and sprints over
‘to give a silent greeting which breaks the heart. Set to the back-
ground of Fleetwood Mac’s “Landslide,” this ad is worth watching

   

4 0 THE RING—TUM PHI '

M O N DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

 

  opinions

 

 

The Constitution in review

By Annelise Madison
c u ssr w RITE R

In March, the student body will vote
on amendments to the Washington and
Lee University Student Body Constitu-
tion proposed by the 2012-20l3 Consti-
tutional Review Committee (CRC). The
CRC drafted these amendments based
on feedback from students and faculty
members. As Chairman of the CRC, it
is my duty to inform the student body
of the substantive amendments that may
be brought to a vote in March so that

we can collectively make an informed ,

decision about whether to accept or re-
ject them. Proposed substantive amend-

]. Duties of E C

- Specifying what constitutes “EC
approval” in clauses of the Constitution
that do not currently do so.

° Requiring the Executive Commit-
tee to, by a majority vote, appoint one of
its representatives to help oversee bud-
geting allocations along with the Vice
President and one representative to help
oversee committee appointments with
the Secretary.

- Requiring the EC to notify the
Student Body with justiﬁcation for in-
creasing the Student Activity Fee by

ments include:

 

 Twitter @berkysfood

emu/a cw‘ LEE III

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, 8; Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online

 Find us on Face book

WASHINGTON AND In Umvazsm

THE RING-

TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
,ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

‘JANEY FUGATE

LIONATHAN SELLS

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA .I. KORASH-SCHIFF

LINDSEY BURKE

LEAH GO.SE

HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
PAT MCCARRON
ANDREA OWEN

ANNELISE MADISON
TYSON JANNEY

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS

 

greater than ﬁve percent from the previ-
ous year.

- Specifying that the Student Body
Secretary must post the record of Stu-
dent Body and EC meetings within two
weeks of each meeting, excluding aca-
demic breaks

° Requiring the Student Body Secre-
tary to publically post a tentative agenda
for the weekly EC meeting at least 24
hours prior to the scheduled meeting,
after consulting with the Student Body
President.

- Stipulating that the EC may, upon
proposal of any EC member, enter into
Executive Session.

- Stipulating that the EC has the
power to remove any of its members for
continual non-attendance, as deﬁned by
three unexcused absences. ,

- Striking out the requirement that
the incoming President of the Executive
Committee must appoint standing and
special committees by June 1 of each
yean

2. Clarifying the
Structure of
Government

Splitting current “Duties of EC” Ar-
ticle into two articles: “The Legislative
Branch” and “The Judicial Branch.” The
Judicial Branch Article would include
clauses on the jurisdiction, composition,
and procedures of the SFHB, S] C, UBA,
and EC. ‘

3, Add “Student
Rights ”Article

- The right to due process if accused
of misconduct that is under the jurisdic-
tion ofthe EC, SFHB, or SJC.

- The right to at least one honor ad-
vocate if accused of misconduct that is
under the jurisdiction of the EC, SFHB,
or SJC.

- The right to appeal an EC decision
to the Student Body and to appeal a SJC
or SFHB decision to the UBA.

- The right to equitable and unbiased

L

 

consideration under the rules and proce-
dures of student governing institutions.

- The right to vote in Student Body
elections, even if studying abroad during
an election.

- The right to appear before stu-
dent governing institutions with any
matter of interest or concern.

4. Reworde
Preamble

“This Constitution is the
expression of a self—govem-
ing Student Body and is the
foundation of its government
by providing the overarching
framework for its mainte-
nance. Every student body
member shall adhere to /-
these provisions and
applicable Univer-
sity policy. ,

It is the intent
of the framers of \
this Constitution to
present an instrument
devoid of complexity, which
shall promote the interests of all, shall
represent a means of settlement of all
affairs that concern the Student Body
or any part thereof, and shall be inter-
preted and administered by the Execu-
tive Committee of the Student Body to
the advancement of the best interests
of Washington and Lee University stu-
dents.”

5. Miscellaneous

' Adding the words “to uphold the.
Student Body Constitution” to the oath
of ofﬁce for Student Body officers.

- Requiring all elected officials, rath-
er than only EC members, to take the
oath of office. i .

- Eliminating the office of First-Year
Class President.

~ Eliminating the Media Board.

- Requiring the Constitutional Re-
view Committee to convene every three
years.

- Including the duties and purpose of

/ j 


    
  
 

the
Voting Regulations Board in the Consti-
tution.

- Changing all mentions of
“Freshman” to “F irst-Year.”

- Eliminating the requirement that
the SBA make a proposal in. the spring of
each academic year for necessary money
to operate from August 15 until the end
of September.

To see a copy of the current Student
Body Constitution, please visit the EC
website. Members of the CRC will pub-
lish articles in future additions of the Phi
explaining the justiﬁcation for and im-
portance of some of these amendments.
The CRC will also host two town-hall
meetings on February 28, one at the
Northen Auditorium at 7:00pm and one
at the Moot Court Room at 8:30pm.
Contact Annelise Madison (madiso-
nal4@mail.wlu.edu) with any feedback,

, questions, or concerns.

MICHAEL DONNELLAN

KANE THOMAS

to the edior 

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that

" prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published _Mon_days during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board. which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising'do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

A very real debate rages across the
United States, and indeed across the
globe, about homosexuality and its place
in the culture. It is a large and, in some
cases, very complex argument about the
nature of family, morality, and sexual-
ity. Whilel do have my own opinions on
the issue, I want to look at the usage of a
very speciﬁc word: “homophobia.” This
increasingly common word both insults
and marginalizes those who object to
homosexuality (for any reason), and is
ultimately harmful to rational discussion
about the issue.

The insult of the word “homophobia”
lies, of course, in the “phobia.” Phobias
are generally either completely irrational
(such as agoraphobia, the fear of wide-
open spaces) or induce fear far out of

proportion to the actual danger involved '

(such as “germophobia,” being unreason-
ably terriﬁed of germs). To label someone
who disapproves of homosexuality as a
“homophobe” implies an irrational fear,

a gut reaction to homosexuality with

little-to-no basis in reality. I think it’s fair
to say that almost no opponent of homo-
sexuality, from the most frothing, ignorant
and hateful to the most intellectual, quiet
and reasonable, experiences some sort
of panic attack when confronted with
homosexuality. The disapproval might be
moral, religious, intellectual, or cultural,
but realistically it almost never has‘ any
basis on physical revulsion. The label of
“homophobe” implies that an opponent
of homosexuality is somehow inferior;
that they haven’t mastered their childish
fears and unreasonable worries. It proﬁts
neither side in the debate to take such a
condescending stance towards the other.
The word “homophobia” also mar-
ginalizes opponents of homosexuality,
merely by its existence. A recent Pew poll
claimed that 49% of Americans polled
were in favor of gay marriage, while
40% opposed (the issue of gay marriage
is separate from a moral opposition to
homosexuality, but the statistic is a good
benchmark). Clearly there remains a very

large portion of the population that does
not approve of homosexuality. “Homo-
phobe” implies a tripartite distinction in
the debate over homosexuality: 1) homo-
sexuals themselves 2) “homophobes” and
3) everyone else. Instead of almost half of
the population, those who disapprove of -
homosexuality have become an out-group:
a strange, hateful holdout baring its teeth
as the rest of the “normal people” move
on. “All the sane, well-balanced people,”
the word implies, “are ﬁne with homo-
sexuality. Except for those ‘homophobes’
who can’t stand it.”

The national discussion over homosex-

uality is far too important for insults, jeers L

and condescension to muddy the issue. I
urge people from all sides of the debate
to remove this word from their active vo-

‘cabulary. It serves only to alienate, which
_ will achieve nothing positive.

-Tyson J anney
Class of 2013

 

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11,2013

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&Iife

Women learn all about ﬁnance

By Lindsey Burke
STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s female stu-
dents in “Women in Finance” are leam-
ing the secrets to safe investments and
keys to ﬁnancial success.

Women in Finance is a student-run
organization that started this winter.
Sophomores Garland Neal and Emma
Busse, and junior Emily Hudson are the
club’s founders.

The group’s main objective is “to em-
power W&L women to make sound in-
vestment and ﬁnancial decisions through
a series of informative presentations,”
according to the founders.

Despite its recent creation, the club
already has 30 active members, many of
whom are Williams School of Commerce
(C-School) majors. However, the club is
not limited to C-School majors. These
women are netted together through their
passionate interest in learning how to
manage their present and future ﬁnances.

Topics of meetings are varied and can
range from paying taxes to buying your
ﬁrst home. .

“We try to ﬁll in the topics that aren’t
necessarily covered in our undergradu-
ate education,” said Neal. “The goal of
‘Women in Finance’ is to try to prepare
women for life after graduation.”

For Neal, starting this organization
was more than just ﬁlling out a piece
of paper. While she initially intended to
extend a national investment education
program, “Smart Women Securities,” to
W&L, Neal found it unﬁtting for W&L’s
campus.

With some aid from Dean Jensen,
Neal got “Women in Finance” on cam-
pus. However, according to her, promot-
ing the program and creating an image
was the hardest part of the process.

“1t’s been really rewarding to be able
to have this idea and do all of the leg
work, then see it develop,” said Neal. “I
hope that this is the beginning of some-
thing that will last even after I graduate.”

She, along with her fellow founders,
worked to create a syllabus of ﬁnancial
topics. They arranged the program’s
schedule after brainstorming ﬁnancial
concerns that had not yet been addressed
in any of their classes, said Neal.

In addition to the beneﬁt of learning

 By Leah Gose
' STAFF warren I

  

how to self-regulate ﬁnancial decisions,
“Women in Finance” allows undergrad-
uate women to network. Almost every
meeting, a presenter, often a W&L alum,
comes to speak to the group.

“I hope that our members not only
create relationships with other members
but also make connections and establish
mentor relationships with alumni,” said
Neal.

The ﬁrst meeting started with Laura



Steuart ’97, an Associate Broker at
Washington Fine Properties. Future
meetings will include talks from Sarah
Ann Knier ’01 of Barclay’s Capital and
a Skype session with Sarah Miller ’ll
of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey in At-
lanta.

‘“Women in Finance’ is a great op-
portunity to learn about ﬁnance from
women who are actually out in the world
and successﬁilly don h tthev eniov,”

said sophomore member Sarah Morgan.
“One of our speakers, Laura Steuart, is a
residential real estate agent in DC, and
after her presentation I think about half
of us were considering going into real
estate!”

Meetings are held every Thursday
evening. Applications are required to
join the program, and qualiﬁcations in-
clude a genuine interest in the club and
willingness to contribute in meetings,

according to Neal.

Next tall, Neal wants to expand the
topics of the sessions and hopefully in-
corporate an investment competition,
possibly involving a charitable aspect.

Said Neal, “We want to make it fun
and competitive so we can apply what
we’ve learned to a real life situation.”

Laura Steuart ‘97, Associate Broker at Washington Fine Properties, describes her job in the financial world during the very first meet-
ing of the “Women in Finance” club last Thursday. The organization, founded by three female students, aims to create an environment
where young women can make informed investment and financial decisions, by attending weekly presentations and talks.

   
 
 

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
  
   

 
 
 
 

u ve.,f9rg0ttengabout.’ '

      
   
     

 
   

 
   
  

    

widéfrstandgno i<'j>h.é¢ha$ verfhearil I
_,,F,_ _ .  . .  .,

‘ will not  yourday. The restau‘--
« rants are booked’ and the candy is‘
 sold out. Instead ’of_chastis,ingv you
;  (like your‘ signiﬁcant Lo_ther_ prob-' ’, 
7-Jajbly will), I}ami.suggesting ﬁve-:  _
ways ‘to spend ip‘,\{a1qen‘tine’sI Day on  _. 3 
tile ﬂy or‘fOn}ajbudget.V  if c I‘ ' ‘

   

 
 

I ’-.f1Iif{'y§u’ve. gmsiy

  to  Wendy . or, .
  '1 value-meal ‘splurge

A  name? ygumaom M
tral.” Hit thevending machines for
‘ some sweet-candy and soda pop

U ' for ottein-ial-ll abﬁ'(?iut’i’_: _ I , . , .
',Va1gem-inéés Da‘y:;d“e.,_.’.gt_1clean‘break. Yes, you .11 probably
.  an r
 
A  g .Tak¢y0ursQmeb9 y.

    

    
  
  
  
   

      
  
 

Waimart’et@—itI6l1]’tlie' . . ‘_ I
' * ” :98c'e1'1t .bi_ns,;»./or the ~
 Sig-op‘ tov,’3-enjoy.jor,ie;;

 

  WT Here ’s

I I Go ‘dorm-hall ‘ i

' H “shopping”

. for Ipillows
  - yQu_~;can bor-
iO“I~7roW and re-
-“Snuggle Cen-

 

and y‘o’u_’ve, got ourself a medio-

 yeti:possiblfsuccessful. eve-

. ‘Y’, ,

Just break
up with your

e signiﬁcant
 , other. If
- “ i V '0 _ you’ve been
ingiabout doing so, ‘and you
forgot .Valentine3sj Day, you really
can’t ﬁnda better way to make a

  
  

 
  

more socially ostrac.ized than
jTigf'er.;,Woods,3 but nothing says
‘‘It’s ’] like a “We Need ‘2 Tlk”
tefctvn V-"Day-I ”  - .

A [Findj a ‘calendar
for next Vyearon
. ._:W0rd.an-d change
vtlite ‘year. to 2013.

l’rint , the sucker V

.Are you the
conﬁdent
(yet still for-
getful) type?
If so, pull a
Joh Cusack and grab an over-
sized raincoat and a boom box.
Serenade your crush (and the rest
of the quad) with a Taylor Swift
song. And nobody knows true love

 

 
     
  
  
      
  
  
 
       

how to (not) celebrate this special 

   

 

better than serial-dater Taylorher
self. _

A; no matter what I yo
choose to do for Valentinefs
Day, I wish you the best of luck.»
May the odds be ever in youiji
vor. A

  
  
  
  
    
 
        
   
    
    
 
   
       

  

  

6 ' THE RAING-TUM PHI -

arts&life

 

MONDAY,

Still-lifes come to life in

By Janey Fugate
STAFF WRITER

Anita Dawson’s collection of acrylic
paintings in Holekamp Hall is at ﬁrst
glance underwhelming. Fairly tradi-
tional still-lifes generally do not excite
the modern viewer, let alone your aver-
age college student. Beginning with the
sultry wine reds and rich browns typi-
cal of still lifes, the pieces’ alignment
moves the viewer around the room to a
fresher green sequence facing the dark
paintings hanging on the opposite wall.
Knives, bowls, books, fruit, insects and
hydrangeas are among the repeated im-
ages that, combined with a particular
style, give the collection an easily rec-
ognizable unity, if not vigor or energy.

But art is never meant to be glanced
at, and as the co|lection’s title “Emblem-
atic Objects” so pointedly implies, the
paintings’ signiﬁcance lies in the depth
of symbolism the chosen images allude
to. If these objects, most being common

subjects of still lifes, are emblematic,
what are they symbolizing?

There is a certain subtle strange-
ness to some of Dawson’s paintings that
may shed light on this question. Part of
this comes from the way she plays with

  
 
 

open book has an illustration ofa crow
perched on a slim branch. With its beak
open and body stretching towards the
bowl, the bird appears to be leaning out
of its page to‘ peck at the plums just out
of reach. This peculiar placement con-

fuses our conception of proper spatial
dimensions and imbues the simple still
life with a slightly surreal feel.
Similarly, in another painting, berry
branches stitched on a pillow seem to
protrude out and morph into real branch-

   
  
     
   
     
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
    

Spatial F€-  es stretching
lationships. ., over another
The second  bow] of
painting, if, fruit. This
one walks . curiosity
Cpuh(t€T- . is perhaps
c oc wise meant to al-
around the lude to the
f00m, d€- stranger ele-
picts a bowl ments of the
of purple rest of the
plums sit- collection.
ting on an A5 I see
open book. it, the bird
The left illustration
page of the and the ber-

  
  

«Objects»

ry branch connect the other inanimate
objects in the painting to each other.
This gives a certain life to the book and
adds the element of relationship to the
painting. Relationship in the sense that
the inanimate object is shown to be in-
teracting with another inanimate object.
Perhaps this is emblematic of the con-
nectedness of the assortment of objects
in the paintings.

The ﬁeur-de-lis stitched on the nap-
kin is a symbol of power and prestige.
Books represent knowledge; the shiny
knives and ripe fruits in silver bowls
allude to wealth. Perhaps these objects
juxtaposed with the wilder images, such
as the birds or striped beetle crawling
over the books or the lizard hint at a
certain connection between such items
loaded with human signiﬁcance and oth-
er natural, simple beings that share the

same space.

 

Students, professors, and community members
came together at the annual Lunar New Year Cele-
bration to usher in the year ofthe snake last Thursday
in the Commons Living Room. Hosted by PAACE,
SAIL, and the Department of East Asian Languag-
es and Literatures, the evening featured a variety
of songs and dances presented by different groups.
From the third-year Chinese students,’ take on the
popular “Gangnam Style” hit to the Nolza Crew’s
lively K-pop performance, the event spanned across
a wide range ofAsian cultures and languages. High-
lights included a special brush-painting demonstra-
tion, a spirited rendition of Mulan’s “l Will Make
a Man Out of You,” and a student’s study abroad
memories from Japan. The night ended with a feast
of Chinese food, as the entire community gathered
to reminisce, reﬂect, and rejoice on a successful eve-
ning, and the many more that lay ahead in the days to
come. ‘Happy Chinese New Year!

C By Cynthia Lam
A&L EDITOR

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

FEBRUARY 11, 2013

  
  

 

  

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

Catching up with C

. By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University’s As-
sistant Golf Coach Jonathan Bowden,
coaching in his ﬁrst year at the colle-
giate level, values his role as mentor.

Before arriving in Lexington, Coach
Bowden spent much of his time helping
to develop young golfers in his home
state of South Carolina. A couple of
weekends each month, Coach Bowden
coached young girls ages 7 to 16 for the

. LPGA-USGA of Greenville.

“It was a good opportunity to help the
community and to coach and mentor.
I wanted any experience I could do to
get into coaching and I took a lot from
the different positions [I’ve coached
fro'm],” explained Coach Bowden.

Bowden also coached for his high
school alma mater in 2010. Through
this experience, he learned the skills of
coaching golf while also recognizing
the commitment required.

“It was neat getting to coach where I
played high school golf. We had suc-

z

 cessful teams and to coach under my old

coachrl learned a lot. I took a lot from
it. I looked back and appreciated the
amount of time he played with us,” said
Coach Bowden, about his experience.
Last year, Bowden and his brother
created Bowden Brothers Golf, a lo-
cal company that helped junior golfers
in South Carolina to contact college
coaches, build their resumes and orga-
_nize golﬁng schedules all in an effort to
enhance each player’s game and ﬁiture

. prospects.

     

3

But things changed. Bowden’s brother
joined the PGA, and Coach Bowden
took his current job as W&L’s Assistant
Golf Coach. Coach Bowden hopes one
day to restart the company.

“lt’s something we wanted to do in
the future, but there’s other opportuni-
ties for now. It was a viable source of
income and good for the community,”
explained Coach Bowden.

Now after years of mentoring young-
er golfers, Coach Bowden is at W&L
with a wealth of knowledge, both from
a coach’s and a player’s standpoint.
Coach Bowden teaches that short cuts
are not the roots for good golf—espe-
cially from a coach.

“I’ve played with a lot of good play-
ers, shot some good scores, and I try to
apply those things in a way that I can
show my players what the entire pack-
age needs to be. Some coaches use
‘Band-Aids.’ I like to give my players
an outline,” said Coach Bowden.

Though now away from his home-
town where he served his community
by teaching golf, Coach Bowden has
brought those same ideals to Lexington.

“I ‘feel like I have a gift in terms of
mentoring, coaching and teaching with-
in the game of golf,” said Bowden. “I
try to use the knowledge I have that oth-
ers don’t, and I want to peruse [coach-
ing] and see where it goes.”

'. Hg,

 

V

tloach Jonathan Bowden I . I

Courtesy of W&L Sports lnformatlo

Courtesy of W&L Sports
Information

.&L n’s hoops falls

LYNCHBURG, Va. — Randolph senior
guard Colton Hunt paced four players in
double ﬁgures with 17 points as the Wild-
Cats defeated Washington and Lee for the
ﬁfth straight time, claiming a 64-59 ODAC
men’s basketball victory on Saturday at the
RAD Center.

W&L (1 1-12, 6-8) grabbed its ﬁrst lead of
the game at the 9:52 mark of the ﬁrst half
as ﬁrst-year forward Andrew Franz (Char-
lotte, N.C. / Ravenscroft) nailed a three-
pointer to give the Generals a 20-19 lead.
Randolph used an 8-0 run, featuring ﬁve
points by Hunt, to push back out to a 27-20
lead at the 8:19 mark en route to posting a
34-30 lead at the break. I

The Generals knotted the game at 41-41
with 13:49 remaining on a Franz layup, but
the WildCats reclaimed the lead the next
time down the ﬁoor on a three-pointer by
ﬁrst-year guard Corey Brown and never
trailed again. W&L remained within a
single possession of tying the game until
back-to-back jumpers by junior guard Mike
Ehilegbu and Hunt gave RC a seven-point
lead (57-50) with 5:54 to play. The Gener-
als sliced it to a ﬁve-point gametwice in
the ﬁnal 2:54 but could get no closer as

the WildCats improved to 19-4 overall and
10-4 in the ODAC.

Washington and Lee shot 47.1 percent
(24-51) from the ﬂoor and committed just
ll turnovers in the contest. The Generals
were led by Franz, who scored 17 points
and grabbed seven rebounds. Sophomore
guard Javon McDonald (Schaumburg, Ill. /
Schaumburg) tallied 14 points, while soph-
omore forward Patrick O’Connor (Rich-
mond, Va. / Douglas Freeman) notched
12 points and grabbed ﬁve boards. Senior
forward J.D. Ey (Charlotte, N.C. / Myers
Park) chipped in six points, eight rebounds
and a career-high 11 assists.

Randolph also shot 24-of-51 (.471) from
the ﬁoor and also committed just ll tum-.
overs. However, the WildCats knocked
down 9-of-22 (.409) attempts from be-
yond the arc. Hunt grabbed 13 rebounds
to go with his 17 points, while Ehilegbu
notched 16 points on'6-of-9 shooting, in-
cluding 3-of-4 from distance. Brown and
senior center Chris Battaglia both added 14
points.

Washington and Lee returns to action
on Wednesday when it travels to Roanoke
College for a 7:00 pm contest.

 ,,_.  ,....~

Sophomore Patrick 0’Connor defends the ball against Lynchburg '

Courtesy of W&L Sports Informatlon

ports  

Oaeh Bowden Does

  Flacco

deserve

the big
bucks?

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Baltimore‘ Ravens are the NFL
Champions. They played a relatively con-
sistent season and then turned it on during
the playoffs. They beat teams led by future
Hall of Famers and some of today‘s most
feared quarterbacks, Peyton Manning and
Tom Brady. They also beat two of the fu-
ture star quarterbacks, Andrew Luck and
Colin Kaepernick. But where does Joe
Flacco play into the rankings of quarter-
backs?

This was the last year of Flacco’s contract
and he needed to make a statement after
four years of relative inconsistency and his
claims of being an “elite" quarterback. ‘He
did what he needed to do. and won the Su-
per Bowl MVP trophy. But now Baltimore
is faced with a whole new issue... how
much is Flacco really worth? Not nearly as
much as he claims to be.

Following the Ravens Super Bowl win.
Flacco’s agent Joe Linta said that because
Flacco won the MVP, he deserves to be the
highest paid quarterback in the NFL. And
I‘m sorry but he is not even close to be-
ing worth as much as Tom Brady or Peyton
Manning. Flacco had an impressive post-
season, there’s no denying that. but he was
not the driving force behind the Ravens‘
win. His throws were otftarget, constantly
being over and under thrown. I think the
wide outs deserve a lot more credit than
they are getting. Torrey Smith and Anquan
Boldin had some impressive catches dur-
ing their Super Bowl win. Not to mention
the fact that while not as impressive as they
once were, the defense played a solid game.

During a conversation about Flacco‘s
worthiness with my mother she compared
him to the Giants’ Phil Simms during the
eighties. They are solid players. with fan-
tastic receivers. and a great defense, but by
no means the best in their league. While
players like Brady and Manning have
proved that the quarterback can drive their
team to a Super Bowl win. this was deli-
nitely not the case this season.

Flacco deserves a nice contract from the
Ravens, and General Manager Ozzie New-
some is conﬁdent that they will be able to
come to an agreement with Flacco and his
agent. I believe that they will come to an
agreement. and I believe that Flacco de-
serves the contract ofa top ten quarterback.
ljust hope that they don‘t give him money
that he doesn't deserve.

 
  

andolph

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

sports

 

I 
' \..¥5ll' 

in the numbers
5

The total number of overtimes in the men’s basketball
game between No. 11 Louisville and No. 25 Notre Dame. It
was the longest regular season game in Big East history.-

The Fighting Irish came out on top 104-101.

3

The number of games in a row that the University of Kansas
men’s basketball team, ranked number five in the country,
has lost. They lost to Oklahoma 72-66 on Saturday. The Jay-

hawks lost to Oklahoma State and TCU earlier in the week.

31.3

The shooting percentage of the Kansas State Wildcats in
their game versus the Syracuse Orange in the second round
of the NCAA tournament. The Wildcats went 21-67 from the

field while losing to the Orange 75-59.

soapbox

 

Swimmers

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Generals across the pool have been entering
the school, and conference, record books.

In the ﬁrst two days of competition at the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships, Washington and Lee has set six
school records en route to a commanding lead.

After Day 2 of competition, W&L had ac-
cumulated 653 points. Randolph-Macon,
the second place team, had just 356 points.
Bridgewater was third with 283 points.

Along with six school records, the Gener-
als have recorded three championship meet
records and two conference records.

On Friday the Generals set records in the
200 individual medley and the 200 free relay.

First-year Emma Swabb swam the 200 [M
in 2:09.93 to win the event and enter the re-

 

 - «{§:~.-"ta 
I W  
‘Q
.1 - ,
f‘  ‘ll.
_ ’,,;.r '1.
 " ,_ »   e, we:
 "“ :4 :’*‘'.*’'°‘ - r

A General competing in freestyle
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

«I -I.

cord books.

Swabb was also a part ofthe second record-
setting performance of the day. Senior Izzy
Brassﬁeld, junior Meredith Hardy and ﬁrst-
year Sarah Schaffer joined her in the 200
free relay. Their time of_l:37.15 took home
the victory, and the ODAC and championship
meet records.

Saturday saw more records for Generals

Swabb broke her third school record of the
meet in the 400 individual medley. Her time
of 4:40.25 easily broke the old record of.
4:43I68 set back in 2002.

The Generals broke another ODAC and
meet record in the 200 medley relay. The team
of Brassfield, sophomore Caroline Hamp,
Schaffer and fellow ﬁrst-year Stephanie Fos-

 

 

ter swam a time of 1:48.11 for the victory.
Hamp broke a meet record in the 100 ﬂy.

She broke her own school record from last

year by almost half of a second with a time

set sixrecords

1

of58.52. v '

Hardy swam the'200 free in 1:55.73 fo
another school record and another Generals
event-win.

Championship competition ﬁnished up on
Sunday for the Generals. Qualifying athletes
will compete at the Div. 111 National Cham-
pionships in March. For the others it was the
last meet ofthe season.

 

 

“It was awesome, something I ’II remember
forever, and I’m sure a lot of people will. ”

-WboonsInbaskatballplqyarBenBmst. Bnrsthltahalll
courtshotInﬂiellnalseoorldsofd)elrmnlowisusNo.3
Mlchlgantoforoethemmelnlnoverume. Wisconsin won
theame66-62,,1lomESPN.oom

“Every day improves and increases the
conﬁdence for me. Every day that the knee
answers well is a lot of positive energy for
me, and that's helping me a lot. The feeling
day by day is better —— the feeling on court.”

-RaI'aelNadaIaflnrmal<lngthellnalsln bolhtheslndes
anddoublescompeﬂuonat 1heVTROpenInchIle.Befora
1hetnumamentNadal hadmtplqyedforsavan months,from
ESPN.com

Athlete of the Week

First-year swimmer
Emma Swabb has been a
part ofthree new school
records this weekend
at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference
championships. She
broke the 400 IM and
the 200 IM records, and
g was a part of the 200
free relay that broke the

  

a 64-56 decisionto Hollins

Courtesy of W&L Sports
Information

LEXINGTON, Va. — Hollins University
used a 14-3 run midway through the second
halfto pull away for a 64-56 win over Wash-
ington and Lee in ODAC women’s basketball
action on Saturday afternoon at the Warner
Center.

The game was nip-and-tuck for the ﬁrst
30 minutes, featuring 14 ties and four lead
changes before HU’s run gave it the game’s
largest lead with 7:27 remaining.

The Generals (8-14, 5-9) held a 46-43 lead
with 11:06 left after a three-pointer by ﬁrst-
year guard Paige Corvino (Clarendon Hills,
Ill./Fenwick). Hollins (8-14, 4-10) senior
guard Lacie Forrest (Richmond, Va./Mead-

  

 .   a  
.0-
  € as  3
 f ' 2 I

)

bounds. Junior forward Chanci Wright (Eden, points on 5-of-6 shooting.
Texas/Eden) notched 10 points and 17 boards", Washington and Lee returns to action on.
and ﬁrst-year forward Alexa Smith (Barbo- Wednesday when it travels to Randolph for a
ursville, Va./William Monroe) recorded 10 7:00 pm contest.
l’5l(-¢&5.<9ii.‘=’::¢4»\',“ : -"i

O

owbrook) matched the triple with one of her
own 18 seconds later to begin the decisive
run. Forrest followed her three-pointer with
a jumper the next time down the floor for a
48-46 lead and sophomore forward Lauren
Hays (Saginaw, Texas/Boswell) hit a jumper
to extend the lead to 50-46.

W&L ﬁrst-year forward Shelbi Hendricks
(Louisville, Ky./Kentucky Country Day)
nailed a triple of her own to cut the HU lead
back to one point (50-49), but Forrest canned
another three-pointer and added a jumper at
the 7:27 mark to cap the run and give Hollins
a 57-49 lead. _

The Generals trimmed their deﬁcit to three
points (59-56) following a jumper by senior
guard Megan Marks (Oxford, Ohio/Talawa-
nda) with 1:41 left but could get no closer as
HU claimed its fourth straight win over W&L.

As a team, the Generals shot just 32.8 per-
cent (21-64) from the ﬂoor and were out-re-
bounded 48-28. Senior forward Katy Wilson
(Chattanooga, Tenn./Baylor) led W&L with
16 points, six rebounds, three assists and three
steals, while Warrick added 13 points. Marks
chipped in 11 points and Hendricks posted
nine points.

Hollins shot 46.6 percent (27-58) from the

  

  

v v‘ v-M-v—s~rr=s 

   

 

 

recordo floor and claimed 16 offensive rebounds lead- ,
111% ‘O '6 5eC°“d'°h3“°€ I’°1“t5- Forrest ﬁn‘ Megan Marks drives to the hoop against Lynchburg
ished with a game-high 21 points and nine re- courtesy of W&L sports mformation
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday _ Friday Saturday Sunday

Men’s Basketball

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs Shenandoah 2 pm

Women’s Basketball

at Randolph 7 pm

vs Shenandoah 4 pm

Men’s Lacrosse

vs Ferrum 5 pm

at CNU 3 pm

Riding

at Bridgewater

Men’s Swimming

Bluegrass Champs

Bluegrass Champs Bluegrass Champs

Bluegrass Champs

Men’s Tennis

at Elon 1:30 pm

Women’s Tennis

vs Radford 3 pm

Track

VMI Winter Relays

Wrestling atUrsinus11am r

 

 

 

  
  

A re
%'I‘3*.75S
R55’).
VI (,6
110.15

 

BY THE

insideLO6K

  What did
you do
 last night?

\ You may. actually

be inhibiting

_ ‘your future

’~ 2 career when

,  you go for

; that last
double-shot.

Is the Maker’s

Mark worth it? .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
      

     

  “'2.

Women in chains.
Women across the globe
are still treated in scary

ways. Why should we care
in the Lex bubble? Have
you ever seen “Taken”?

   

Friend us on

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

F acebook with “‘
e9

 

News...2
Opinions...5 '
Arts & Life...6

 

Wednesday
Partly Sunny

 
   

 Partly Sunny



 Saturday
42-.   Partlysunny

 30°-54°

 , Sunday
Rain &Snow

28°-48°

{W4

,,,>-*~»lt4 I Manda?
 "I" V
‘E ’  fr PartlySunny

240_480 V

  
 

 

 

I is

STUDENTS AND

FOR»THE

 

1897

RING-TUM PHI.

STUDENTS SINCE

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 16

national‘

By Andrea Owen
STA F F w R IT E R
National Eating Disorders Awareness

Week, Feb. 24 through March 4, spot- '

lighted an issue especially applicable to
the Washington and Lee community.
On Sunday, March 3, Active Minds
hosted its third annual Eating Disor-
der Panel, a panel of ﬁve students who
shared experiences related to eating

Panel takes steps to decrease etin disorder prevale

pcrson’s life.”

Jan Kaufman, W&L’s Director of
Health Promotion, described the com-
pulsive exercise and restrictive eating
components of disordered eating that
may or may not constitute a full-blown
eating disorder.

     

nee at W&L.

many of the risk factors that contrib-
ute eating disorders-—college age, high

. SES, white, traditional gender roles,”

she said. “I think living and eating in
the sorority house also contributes to the
prevalence of eating disorders.”
Regarding this year’s panel, McCune
described a point that struck her per-

 

disorders. . . .
Although the percentage of W&L Anorexla Bullmla
students who reported diagnosis or 3.0%
treatment of anorexia or bulimia de-
creased from 2010 to 2012, the dis- 25%
orders are still twice as prevalent here
compared to the national average. 0
In addition, junior Madison Mc- 2'0 /0
Cune, the President of Active Minds,
cited some ofthe important things stu- 1.5%
dents should know from the panelists’
discussion: many eating disorders do 1 00/ ‘
. . . o 0
not ﬁt the anorexia/bulimia mold.
“I think it’s important to know
most eating disorders aren’t as simple 0-5%
as that,” she said. “There is a large
spectrum of behaviors that are more gs: N; gy-
complex than just not eating or just $9 Q $9’ Q
throwing up.”
Clinical Psychologist Cliiisty Bar §.‘:.'.°.;;!‘.“tv— .".'."tfl .'t~i.'L‘,?§.'&*;‘§.§§‘l'§$tl'§.HT.-S‘l'Li¥é;$!l%i1'.?é
Oiigaii» who Came on Staff in 2002 .2i‘.?l§'.'I"vl';étl.E::-'.‘ 35221133?! i:2«"/I. '"“"'“‘*"M“‘°°“““l““5°"

sonally.

“One of the things that really
struck ‘me was that social media was
able to have such a negative impact,”
she said, “Online bullying was very
impactful in a negative way....it’s not
just ajoke.”

Barongan described the best thing
to do if someone is concerned a friend
may have an eating disorder.

“I think it‘s best to start by talking
to the person ﬁrst about changes you
have noticed (weight loss, skipping
meals, etc.) and to ask them what‘s
going on,” she said. “Accusing them
of having an eating disorder is not as
helpful, but I wouldn’t get too caught
up in saying it wrong. It is better to say
something than to say nothing at all.”

Barongan said that a concerned
friend may also talk to a school, coun-

because of her expertise in eating
disorders, also emphasized the idea that
many serious eating-related issues may
not ﬁt the category of a traditional eat-
ing disorder. ,

“I would say that most people fall in
the disordered eating range, and this is
just as much of a reason to get help as
having a ‘diagnosable’ condition,” she
said. “Sometimes disordered eating can
become an eating disorder, and even if it
doesn’t, it still affects the quality of the

She also explained why eating disor-
ders maybe more prevalent here.

“I think we have high achieving stu-
dents who are perfectionistic [and that
is] characteristic of people with eating
disorders,” she said.

Dr. Barongan also mentioned some
factors.

“While eating disorders can affect
people ofall ages, SES levels, and races,
the student population at W&L includes

selor to discuss what to do. She added
that the counseling center has pamphlets
with information for students.

McCune accentuated the seriousness
of eating disorders.

“Eating'disorders are very serious,”
she said. -“They often end in death.
They are mental illnesses that for our
age bracket have the highest mortality
rate....[and people] take an average of
seven years to recovery fully.”

‘ A1‘ _‘.. ».a§

Junior Margaret Klein carries the ball upfield against Randolph in the Generals’ first win of the
season. W&L won 16-5 but has otherwise had a slower start to their season than usual.
Story on page 12. Photo courtesy of generalssports.com.

Making a
“major?!
decision  

Sophomores declared.
initial majors on March
1, but changes can be
made

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITJER

Washington and Lee University sopho-
mores recently declared their initial majors
after submitting major declaration forms to
the University Registrar Oﬁfice on March 1.

Though March 1 was the deadline to for-
mally declare an initial major, W&L students
have the flexibility to add or change majors
through January of their senior year, accord-
ing to Scott Dittman of the University Reg-
istrar Office.

The declaration process requires students
to ﬁll out a form listing their major(s) and/
or minors, with signatures from their advi-
sor and the department head for their major.
Students can use this same form when look-
ing to change or add a major or minor, or to
switch advisors.

When students wish to make changes to
preexisting information, they must include
a copy of their “My Proﬁle” page from
WebAdvisor. Dittman said that this allows
the Registrar Ofﬁce to quickly see what ma-

jor the student had previously declared.

“Whenever they turn a new form in, it
completely supplants the previous one so
that we’re only dealing with one form at a
time,” Dittman said. “lt’s a fairly easy pro-
cess as long as you’re thinking ahead.”

The current declaration date has not al-
ways been in place, Dittman said that until
2010, sophomores were not required to de-
clare until the end of the sophomore year.

“Its a liberal arts experi-
ence, so you ’re supposed to
be exploring. You don ’t want
to be looking yourself in. ”
Scott Dittman, University Registrar

“So many people started taking spring
option, going abroad, or a lot of advisors
weren’t here,” Dittman said. “We backed up
[the declaration date] so that we would have
the information ready because sophomores
are often registering for important courses
for majors in the fall of their junior year.”

Dittman said that it is crucial for all of
the departments and the Registrar Oﬂice
to know the number of students per major
well in advance. The number of students per
major is an indication of how many course
sections a department needs to offer to ad-
equately meet student needs. _

“There is a need for the department heads

to know how many people are planning a’

certain major because that affects courses for

the next 4, 5, even 6 terms," Dittman said.v

“They need to start thinking now about how
they’re going to accommodate whatever in-
creases in numbers or decrease in numbers.”

Because of the course planning involved,
this year, students declaring business admin-
istration majors were required to submit their
forms a week earlier than other departments.

"Business Administration Department

Head Professor Robert Ballenger said that
the department pushed up the declaration
date because unlike other departments, the
business administration department also
needs to assign students to advisors.

 

 
 

~ ll. & lEE.UlH¥lilSl

 
    

G%,VA 24455

..E3'm‘»3aI;::

lY

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

MARl420l3

IIGWS

 

V

Spreading the honor

A VMI conference is putting a spotlight on honor

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WR lTER

   

Executive Committee President Steele
Burrow ‘ 13 and Second-Year Law Rep-
resentative of the Executive Committee
David Pelletier participated in the Vir-
ginia Military Institute’s Honor Code
Conference on March 4 and 5.
According to Burrow, the conference
included students from VMI, Washing-
ton and Lee University, Duke Univer-
sity, the Virginia Polytechnic Institute

.5:

and Burrow both participated in that
portion of the conference.

“As a representative from a school
with an honor system, I spoke after one
of the vignettes, explaining how The
Honor System and the White Book Pro-
cedures would have handled the given
situation,” Pelletier said.

During the presentation, Pelletier fo-

cused on the law school, while Burrow ‘

“There are plenty ofhigh s
to be held accountable for

chool students that want

their actions and want

to create a positive community of trust like we have

here at Washington and Lee. ’

I

DAVID PELLETIER, Second-Year Law Representative of the EC

and State University, the U.S. Naval
Academy and several other schools.
Burrow said that the purpose of the
conference was to educate students
about various honor systems.

“[The conference] tried to bring to-
gether college students involved with
their schools’ honor systems or codes
with high school students and leaders
interested in beginning their own,” Bur-
row said.

Burrow said that the college students
explained their honor systems by ex-
amining a variety of casesand showing
how their school would handle such a
case under its honor system. Pelletier

  

 

continued from‘ page 1 ,
“We also have to deal with the fact

Major declaration

discussed the overall importance of the
system. .

“I focused on the traditional role of the
Honor System at W&L since Robert E.
Lee was here in the late l860’s, while
David emphasized the procedures of
honor cases and the unique experience
of the System’s interaction with a law
school,” Burrow said.

Pelletier said that he became involved
in the conference due to his work on the
Executive Committee. The Honor Code
Conference was not the first time he has
worked closely with VMI.

“Earlier this year, The Honor Council
at VMI invited us to lunch at their Cen-

ter for Leadership and Ethics where we
shared our experiences as well as pro-
cedures and policies we follow,” Pelle-
tier said. “It was a great opportunity to
learn how another school handles honor
within its community.”

Following the event at the Center for
Leadership and Ethics, VMI invited
W&L to participate in the Honor Code
Conference. .

One of the most rewarding aspects of
the conference for Pelletier was seeing
how many high school students were
interested in learning about different
honor systems.

“There are plenty of high school
students that want to be held account-
able for their actions and want to cre-
ate a positive community of trust like
we have here at W&L,” Pelletier said.
“That was an empowering thing to hear
and very motivating.”

He added that he was glad to have
the opportunity to talk one-on-one with
many students whose schools didn’t
have an existing honor system. Pelle-
tier said he hoped that his conversations
with those students were helpful to cre-
ating an honor system in the future.

‘Burrow said he hoped that the stu-
dents who were looking to create an
honor system at their school were able
to fully comprehend its advantages.

“I hope they gained a deeper under-
standing of the options before them
and, more crucially, the beneﬁts of hav-
ing an honor system of any kind,” he
said.

systems. around the country

1. THE SCIENCES

 
    

Though Pelletier and Burrow were
responsible for educating many people
about W&L’s honor system, Pelletier
said that he personally learned a lot in
the rocess. He was particularly inter-
ested in other schools’ procedures un-
der their honor systems.

“Leaming how other schools handle
or do not handle conﬁdentiality, for
example, was educational,” Pelletier
said. “The same can be said for inves-
tigations and hearings and trials them-
selves.”

Pelletier said that participating in the
conference allowed him to reﬂect on
W&L’s current honor system. He said
that although conversations reflecting
on the current honor system at W&L
are ongoing, the conference reinforced
that discussion.

“This doesn’t necessarily mean [those
conversations] were about change, al-
though certainly there is room and op-
tion for that,” Pelletier said. “One ofthe
strengths of the way W&L has\created
its Honor System vs Code is its ﬂexibil-
ity and ability to evolve.”

Burrow agreed with Pelletier, say-
ing that he doesn’t foresee any major
changes to the honor system in the near
future.

“I don’t see us implementing any
changes as a result of that conference,
bLIt I did feel that the experience was
valuable,” said Burrow. “Every system
must address the context in which it
exists, academically and socially, and
I think W&L’s is ideal for our school.”

 ‘ll’. if

   

  Wilson
leaves
growing
legacy

By Neil Haggerty
N EWS EDITO R

John‘ D. Wilson, President of Washington
and Lee University during the transition to

 Coeducation, passed away on March 2.

Wilson served as W&L president from I983
to I995. According to an interview with Wil-
son in a 1994 Alumni Magazine, the decision
to go coeducational under Wilson’s leader-
ship in I984 brought emotional responses,
but “contributed to the elevation of the Uni-
versity’s reputation.”

Coeducation was not Wilson’s only contri-
bution to W&L.

Wilson appointed the very inﬂuential John
Elrod as Dean of the College in 1984. Wil-
son’s Presidency also witnessed the renova-
tion of 15 fraternity houses, the introduction
of several academic departments, the open-
ing of the Lenfest Center for the Arts and a
$147 million capital campaign, according to
a press release by Jeff Hanna.

The capital campaign funds helped fund
the construction of the Watson Pavilion, the
Duchossois Tennis Center and the renovation
of the.ScienCe Center, according to the press
release.

The 1994 interview highlighted Wilson’s
avoidance of «political correctness as repre-
sentative of his desire to make W&L a place
of neutrality for perspectives right and left.

  
   
    
    
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
    
  
   
    
  

 

Wilson’s memorial service is on
March 16 in Lee Chapel at 3 p.m.

10.

 

CLASSICS. RELIGIONS,

PHILOSOPHY

2. POLITICS

tion date to the beginning of February to
avoid adding more work for the Regis-
trar’s oﬁ’ice in January.

“If the deadline was Feb. 1, [business
administration majors] wouldn’t have to
have a special separate little process,”
Ballenger said. “And it gives us time to
have our course schedules together before
registration.”

Dittman said that regardless of where
the oﬁicial date to declare a major stands,
the best part about declaring a major at
W&L is that students have the freedom to
make changes without fearing that they
won’t graduate within four years.

“It’s a liberal arts experience, so you’re
supposed to be exploring. You don’t want
to be locking yourself in,” Dittman said.

that a lot of those people have not had a
business professor,” Ballenger said. “We
have to spread all of the workload out to
all of the advisors so that the workload is
evenly distributed.”

Ballenger also said that he anticipates
the entire Williams School will move up
its major declaration deadline next year.

“There has been a signiﬁcant increase
in business, accounting, and econom-
ics majors and we want to make sure we
have enough spots for everybody,” he
said. “We’re trying to take the guesswork
out of it.”

Both Dittman and Ballenger said there
has been talk of making the declaration
date even earlier for all W&L students.
However, Dittman said the issue is that
the Registrar Office is quite busy in Janu-
ary.

“Backing it up into January, which
is already so full of stuff - we’re doing
spring registration in January; it’s nuts,”
Dittman said. “But that would help the
faculty make better plans when we ask_
them in mid-February, ‘How much are . .
you going to teach in the fall?”’

Ballenger said that one possibility for
the future is to move the major declara-

, 11. HISTORY

'3. BUSINESS ADMIN .
12. PSYCHOLOGY
4. SHEPHERD POVERTY
PROGRAM 13. JOURNALISM & MASS

COMMUNICATIONS

9‘

ECONOMICS
14. MATH

9"

ENGLISH

15. THE ARTS
FOREIGN LANGUAGES
16. FOREIGN CULTURE
STUDIES

2“

. ACCOUNTING

W
"
J
W
'-é
A
—
E
“
A:
L‘-"'
j

5'’

ART HISTORY 17. SOCIAL SCIENCES

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI» -4

 

news  

 

By Hannah Howard
STAFF warren

’ The face of
. ADVERSITY

. The global ﬁght for women is rights rages on

Friday marked the occasion of Inter-
national Women’s Day.

Although diﬁerent forms ‘of this
day have been observed since the early
1900s, it was not until the 2000s that an
official, annual day was set. Intemation-
al Women’s Day serves to celebrate the
accomplishments of women through the
years and the obstacles that they have
overcome.

At the same time, it reminds citizens
across the globe of the struggles that
many women still endure and also pro-
motes women’s rights. Although many
believe that all the battles for women
have been won, it is clear in many areas
of the globe that this assumption is far
from the truth.

In light of this day, it is important to
bring to light the reality of many situa-
tions where women ﬁnd themselves in
crisis.

“In crisis areas, it is often women
and children who suffer the most,” ac-
cording to reports by the Pulitzer Cen-
ter. “Countries with underdeveloped
economies and countries at-war face
countless diﬂiculties, but stories of the
particular misery faced by women and
children are often overlooked — result-
ing in far-reaching human, social and
economic consequences.”

Everyday, women across the globe
are subject to various rights violations
and suffering that often goes unnoticed
or unaddressed.

Alise Sochaczewski, a psychothera-
pist from Los Angeles, said to the‘Los
Angeles Times during a march for In-
ternational Women’s Day, “Women live
in poverty around the world. They also
bear the brunt of wars that men start,
and it needs to stop.”

DISCRIMINATION

The most common example of dis-
crimination against women that people
report is in the economic sector.

The Guardian reported that it is gen-
erally accepted by many professional
women that they will have to work
harder than a man of equal capability in
order to be given the same amount of
respect.

However, there are cases of discrim-
ination that carry with them even heavi-
er repercussions. In Lebanon, only men
are allowed to pass down citizenship.

Greg Constantine of the Pulitzer
Center said, “The inability of a Leba-
nese woman to pass on her citizenship is

seen by many women as a gross viola- ’

tion of a fundamental right that in many
ways thwarts almost any progress the
country has made related to the ‘equal-
ity’ of women.”

If a Lebanese woman marries a man
from another country or a man who has
stateless status (lack of citizenship pa-
pers) then their children, despite being
bom in Lebanon and having a Lebanese
mother, will have no claim to citizen-
ship.

Amal, a woman interviewed by Con-
stantine who is married to a stateless
man, said: “I feel lost and with so much
pain it is killing me. I can’t do anything
for my children. I am Lebanese of a
Lebanese father and I can’t do anything
for my husband and for my children.”

This discrimination perpetuates
statelessness in future generations and
creates more people who have no na-
tional claim. This increases general un-
rest and instability within a state.

SEGREGATION

A young girl just
reaching maturity is ban-
ished from her home and
sent to live for a week in
a shack, exposed to in-
numerable dangers. In
a ritual called chaupadi
that is still common in
Nepal, girls are'segre-
gated while menstruat-
ing. They are consid-
ered impure because of
biological factors over
which they have no con-
trol.

Allison Shelley and
Allyn Gaestel, a pho-
tographer and writer,
respectively, who have
studied the issue, said: “They are not
allowed to touch kitchen utensils, share
the same water source, go to school, or
sleep inside the home during their pe-
riods. Instead, they sleep in huts, ani-
mal sheds, caves or even in the open.
Women and children have died from
exposure, burning or animal attacks, all
while practicing chaupadi.”

Cultural traditions keep this ritual
strong even in modem times. These
small villages do not have access to
the medical knowledge that could save
these women. In addition, many indi-
viduals who practice chaupadi believe
the gods will punish them ifthey do not
adhere to it.

This continued tradition of segrega-
tion is stirring outrage in many people.
Laxmi Bhul, who was interviewed by
the Global Press Institute, said, “I am

Sharba.t7Gul_,a,, Afg
Middle E851" -

frightened to stay here alone. Mother
will not let me in the house and the local
women will not let me use the nearby
[water] tap. I wish nobody would be
born a daughter.”

The Nepali activist Dhurbar Sunar
said, “I think this is a social crime in
terms of women’s rights.”

Sunar is in leadership at Samabikas,
an organization working to end chau-
padi in Nepal. Unfortunately, their work
is incredibly difﬁcult because, accord-
ing to the Global Press Institute, many
women have been brought up to believe
that this practice is right and necessary.

RAPE
Globally, one in three women and
girls will be beaten or sexualiy abused

 
 
    
      
  
   
   
 
 

 ‘United K

V we

 &ia|d.Government Action

.3 bill intendé todi1n_inishviolence‘against women has been put up before
P A  alﬁlgssembly, jbut»-at conservative religious group is opposing

equire ppro_vaI.from al‘l four provinces before it can gointo effect.

“ ' dom isﬂleading aUN Commission on the Status of Wom-

lobalﬂinitiatives to end all violence against women glob- .

” sediinelanuaryiin Morocco that nulliﬁes the previous law, which
 the raw if the perpetrator married the victim.
 series of tough--new laws to end sexual violence in re- I ,,
 ibrufta  irape ofawoman in December.
F the Vidlence Against Women Act on Thursday.
 ovemment will approach survivors and per- ~

 efugee, beca

in their lifetime.

Reports of violence against women
have increased in recent months in
places such as India and various Afri-
can countries. This is evidenced by the
high proﬁle coverage of the gang rape
in New Delhi, the kidnappings in Paki-
stan, and the protests sweeping multiple
countries.

New legislation is in the works in
many countries such as India and Mo-
rocco. However, it still isn’t enough.
Reporting can still be minimal in some
places and attempts to prosecute are of-
ten ineffective.

A report by the Physicians for Hu-
man Rights read: “Every year, sexual
violence is used against tens of thou-
sands of women and girls during and
after armed conflict. And all too often,
those who commit the violence will
never be accused, they will never be ar-
rested, and they will never stand trial or
even face a ﬁne.” '

Reporters at the Pulitzer Center gave
an example: “Few Pakistani media
outlets carry the stories and no demon-
strations have been held. Even if rape
in Pakistan received the same kind of
attention, however, ﬁnding justice for
crimes of sexual violence can be an ex-
tremely arduous task.”

Women are victimized by rape in ev-
ery comer of the globe, especially in ar-
eas ripped apart by war. Wherever war
goes, increased rape statistics follow.

“Armed groups use rape to spread
disease, and wreck or uproot commu-
nities, with shame turning victims into
outcasts,” said the Pulitzer Center.

Currently, this problem is particu-

larly prevalent in Africa. Author Jeremy
Rosen said, “Rape is endemic in Africa
and female mutilation is widespread.”

The United Nations estimates that

over 200,000 women have been raped
in the Democratic Republic of the Con-
go.
Solange Furaha, Executive Secre-
tary of South Kivu Congolese Women’s
Caucus for Peace, said, “Sexual vio-
lence is continuing to tear people, fami-
lies, and communities apart... Leaders
must be accountable to the women and
girls ofAfrica.”

The problem is not only in Africa and
the Middle East. Women continue to be
attacked in the drug wars in Mexico.
Rape happens every day on the streets
of fully developed, ﬁrst-world coun-
tries. The problem is not going away.

TRAFFICKING

Human trafﬁcking is just as promi-
nent as it always has been. Everyday
more girls leave their homes for the
promise of a job that will help them
support their families only to ﬁnd that
they have become slaves. Still others
are kidnapped. Some are even sold by
their friends or families.

Statistics released by the State De-
partment in 2010 estimated that 12,000
Nepali women were trafﬁcked to Indian
brothels alone. This number has, of
course, only risen.

Reports from the Pulitzer Center

stated, “Once they get to India there is
little help available for them. Most are
hundreds of miles from home and in ter-
rifying surroundings. They often don’t
speak Hindi, the main language in In-
dia. Many reports have noted that the
Indian police are often in cahoots with
the brothels, making it almost impos-
sible for girls to get out.”

Trafﬁcking is continuing in India as
more locals are being targeted as well.
Villages on the banks of the Brahma-
putra River are often destroyed during
the rainy season as the river drastically
ﬂoods. Many die while others have their
livelihoods washed away. During this
desperate time, women go missing.

Journalist Carl Gierstorfer said,
“Traﬁﬁckers have identiﬁed their vul-
nerable situation and lure them with
promises of a better life in Delhi. Some
of the women are outright kidnapped
and sold as brides or prostitutes.”

The demand for trafﬁcked women
has not diminished and little is being
done to stop it. As such, many think the
outlook is rather bleak for these women.

These are just a few of the issues
that women across all nations face ev-
ery day. Some areas of the world are
indeed hit harder by these than others,
but it is an international crisis. Though
it may seem like these problems are far
removed from students and everyday
life, they surround everyone.

Women are in crisis. Raising aware-
ness through Observances such as Inter-
national Women’s Day is merely a small
step towards further progress and end-
ing gender violations globally.

g _  tlge world’s most, recognized female of the war-to
‘ n her  A ture graced the cover of National Geographic in 1985.

Closer
to
home

’’I’m not educated about
women’s issues on the
international scale but I wish
I was,” said ﬁrst-year Sarah
Knenleih. ”People need to
know what's going on so it's
definitely something the
campus needs some buzz

about."

The ﬁrst step to realizing
that this is a global problem
is to see the seriousness of it
locally, as well. Knenlein may
not know much about the
international issues, but as

a SPEAK member she works ’

to educate students about
rape and assault on campus.
SPEAK is an organization of
female students who work
to empower women in the
W&L community to speak
out against rape and the
mistreatment of women.
"This crisis is prominent,
but a lot of women aren't
comfortable talking about

' it,” Knenlein said. ”We know

it's happening. We know it's
a problem and we know it
needs to stop. Sadly, nothing
can change if people don't
address it.”
Students on the W&L
campus can take a step
towards change this month
by participating in Speak
Week. Speak Week (March
25-28) keeps the spirit of
International Women’s Day
alive by reminding people to
be aware of women’s issues
and encouraging them to
talk about the problems.
The week culminates with
Take Back the Night, an
event held on March 28
that gives sexual assault
survivors a forum for their
voices to be heard.
Knenlein added:”We want
people to become more
comfortable talking about
this Crisis. It's everywhere
and it's not going away until
we recognize its presence
and push for change.”

 

Twitter @berkysfood

I ‘gezéa/a MIIBE lll

"Hands Down the T‘astiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin_11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

,Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

l-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450 I

540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online .

 Find us on Face book

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

 

  

/‘ A

‘ /

New ApPE

The campus recreation and PE departments merged this term

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER »

Campus Recreation is getting a
new look.

The Physical Education Depart-
ment merged with the Office of
Campus Recreation in an attempt to
create a campus-wide, over-arching
recreation department within Wash-
ington and Lee University starting
this term.

The new department is called Phys-
ical Education, Athletics, and Rec-
reation and will be led by Athletic
Director Jan Hathom. It will include
physical education classes, varsity
athletics, intramural and club sports
and group exercise.

The new change is mainly due to
convenience for everyone involved
in the two merging departments, due
to the fact that Campus Recreation
can only use the ‘Physical Educa-
tion facilities _and because the two
work so closely together, according
to Associate Athletic Director Shana
Levine.

When discussing the long list of
advantages of the two departments

_merging, both Levine and former

head of Campus Recreation Ray El-
lington said it will make the budget
for recreation more effective.

Campus Recreation was formerly
a part of the Student Affairs depart-
ment at the school and would often
use the Physical Education equip-
ment and facilities for intramural and
club sports and for group exercise.
Now Campus Recreation is in the
Warner Complex, communication
and budget coordination with the PE
department should be more efﬁcient.

Another change to the department
is to have a focus group generate a
“Campus Recreation Task Force”
that will work to create a better
schedule for group exercise as well
as implementing ‘more ‘W&L-ap-
proved activities.

“The focus group will be represen-
tative of the entire campus, fratemi-

ARance

ties, sororities, and people who live
in residence halls,” Ellington said.
“We want to improve campus recre-
ations for everyone.”

The group will meet as a whole
twice a year in order to discuss the
state of the department as a whole,
but there will be more frequent “sub-
groups” that will be more focused on
certain activities and trying to im-
prove only those activities.

“With this transition, it’s a good
time to change,” said Levine.

This is exactly what Ellington is
trying to do with the focus group:
to change campus recreation for the
better across the entire W&L com-
munity.

Ellington will be recruiting stu-
dents across the campus soon in or-
der to create the Campus Recreation
Task Force. If you are interested in
becoming a member of the group,
send an email to sellington@wlu.
edu.

 

May 28—JulIe 20., 2013

‘i

 Earn four college credits*

urban university in Greenwich Vill
- Network with top professionals
Collaborate with peers

R *Check with youricollege to see if credits are transferable.

‘iii

K  ..

INTENSIVES

:. An affirmative action/ equal opportunity institution. Photo: Matthew Suss‘

  

 iv‘ 4 -

Four-week Courses and Workshops
in'Dance, Environmental Studies, '
Film Production, and Writing A‘

6

i‘  - Study at The New Schoo|—a legendary

age .

 
  

    

 

WASHINGTON AND in UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS-EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise Independent.THE
RING-TUM PHI welcomes’a|| letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
' FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADC‘OCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
ANDREA OWEN
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

MONICA DEVLIN
KRISTINA SEON

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

  PBl{ISociety of the
Cincinnati Convocation

Adjusted Schedule
Thursday, March 14

Normal class times
8:00am—8:55am
8:00am-10:00am
8:35am-10:00am
9:05am-10:00am
10:1 Oam-1 1:05am
10:10am-11:35am
10:10am-12:10pm
11:15am-12:10pm
11:50am-1:15pm
12:20pm-1:15pm
12:20pm-2:20pm
1:25pm-2:20pm
1:25pm-2:50pm

1:25pm-4:30pm
2:30pm-3:25pm
2:30pm—4:30pm
3:00pm-4:25pm
3:35pm-4:30pm
4:40pm-5:35pm

Adjusted Class Time
8:00am-8:45am
8:00am-9:40am
8:35am-9:25am
8:55am-9:40am
9:50am—10:35am
9:45am-10:35am
9:50am-11:30am
10:45am-11:30am
10:45am-11:35am
1:10pm-1:55pm
1:10pm-2:50pm
2:05pm-2:50pm
2:05pm-2:55pm
2:05pm-4:30pm
3:00pm-3:45pm
3:00pm-4:40pm
3:05pm-3:55pm
3:55pm-4:40pm
4:50pm-5:35pm

Laboratories and Studio classes
8:00am-12:10pm 8:00am-11:30am
8:35am-11:40am 8:35am-11:30am
1:25pm-4:30pm 2:05pm-4:30pm
1:25pm-5:35pm 2:05pm-5:35pm

Are you

an ally?

Virginia Colleges
Equality Symposium
challenges students
to support LGBT

By Leigh Dannhauser
STAFF WRITER

“We’re locked in a civil rights battle,
right now,” Marcia “Ma” Purdy told
the audience at the 2nd annual Virginia
Colleges Equality Symposium and

‘Gala held here at Washington and Lee

University on Saturday.

Purdy’s speech, titled “Ally Devel-
opment: l’m Out Too” was geared to-
wards how important allies are to the
LGBT community. ‘

Purdy, herself an ally, told her per-
sonal story about living in a time of
mass discrimination and homophobia.

It is still an issue, Purdy said, be-
cause people are bystanders instead of
upstanders.

“People just don’t know how to start
helping,” explained Purdy. “They
don’t have the tools.” ,.

But, there are many ways that peo-
ple can make a difference, even on a
campus-wide scale. One of the biggest
things that Purdy stressed was general
support.

She mentioned Lavender Gradua-
tion, which is where members of the
community and their allies walk at a
separation graduation and support one
another.

“Sometimes there is nobody cel-
ebrating that event in an individual’s
life so as an ally show up and celebrate
and be there,” Purdy explained.

Although the community has made
much ground in the civil rights battle,
there is still a good distance to go to
achieve true equality.

At the end Purdy reminded everyone
how important the ally is to the com-
munity. “The voice of an ally LGBTQ
provides people great relief, because it
reminds us that we do not have to ﬁght
this alone.”

 

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11,2013

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

opinions

A The real Value of a scholarship

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

This past week, a little over 180
eager and nervous high school seniors
ﬁocked to our campus to win one of a
limited number of merit scholarships.
The Johnson Scholarship, introduced af-
ter a donation of$l0O million was made
(anonymously at ﬁrst) by Mr. Johnson,
provides around ten percent of every in-
coming class with full-rides.

That is a lot of money. More impor-
tantly- that is the potential for a lot of
possibility. When the ﬁnalists come to
campus,’ we are getting a taste of the fu-
ture- a sampling of what could be. Con-
sidering that 67 percent of the class of
2016 applied for a Johnson scholarship,
it seems that a lot of students want that
opportunity.

Even so, it seems that animosity sur-
rounds the winners when they matricu-
late. It is much like beginning a demo-
cratic government system in a recently
war-tom country: everyone wants the
power, but the winner always seems to
be the ﬁrst ridiculed and blamed.

But why? Do we like to villainize
the ‘winners or are we harboring a seri-
ous jealousy issue? The scholars are not
chosen out of a hat- and all are deserving

of almost a quarter million dollars (this,

year, the ﬁnalists’ average ACT score

was a 34). To better paint the picture,
professors and current Johnson scholars
perform the interviews and help to se-
lect the winners. I would happily place
the future of millions of dollars in the
hands of our professors and students
for one reason: our community is built
on the idea of intellectual and personal
growth.

All students are beneﬁciaries of
our campus’ environment--receiving a
scholarship does not take away from our
General state-of-being (pun intended),
but it allows students the ability to grow
here. The Johnson scholarship’s purpose
is to bring in the smartest students, but
more so—-the most promising. Winning
a scholarship means that those in our
microcosm of higher education chose a
ﬁnalist because they bring so much to
the table.

Not winning does seem discourag-
ing. But regardless of the scholarship,
being here is like winning the lottery
anyway. Without the whole of our
school, the intellectual prowess would
be lost, and the opportunity for commu-
nity building would disappear. We are
all the future. As a whole, the possibili-
ties for our future are endless.

Instead of creating such an environ-

ment of animosity and jealousy, we can
only thank each other. Without the pres-
ence of myriad types of students, we
would not be able to experience all that
Washington and Lee University can of-
fer. This does not mean that we should
raise statues of our winners, but that we

should remember that we are all stu-
dents, we are all adding to the wonderful
environment that is, at its foundation, a
stepping stone for our futures.

Yes, at times we can be a little jeal-
ous of the seemingly “lucky” scholar-
ship winners (it is only fair, we are hu-

man). But without all of us here, our
world would never grow. So what am
I trying to say? We are all winners- the
money has nothing to do with it.

Drone program striking out

The governments attempts to prevent terrorism threaten the liberty of American citizens

By Yates Wilburn
s TA F F w R I T E R

During the ongoing conﬁrmation
hearings for President Obama’s nomi-
nation for CIA Director John ‘Brennon,
senators involved asked some pretty
awkward questions regarding the U.S.
drone strike program. The questions
ranged from its effectiveness and preva-
lence, to its legality under the U.S. Con-
stitution. Now, the main focus of politi-
cal and media attention didn’t so much
revolve around the use of drones on sus-
pected terrorists, but rather around their
use on U.S. citizens suspected of terror-
ism. The increasing use of these drones
overseas and at home when combined
with the Patriot Act and the President’s
authorization of indeﬁnite detention of
U.S. citizens by the military last year
combine to create a unsettling situation
regarding the state of our civil liberties.

The source of these questions can
trace their genesis back to the use of
drones to track and kill U.S. citizen An-
war al-Awlaki in Yemen back in 2011.
Readers will remember that Mr. al-Aw-
laki was, at the time, serving as al-Qa-
eda’s spokesman in the Arabian Penin-
sula. The reason senators have seen ﬁt to
bring this issue under scrutiny now has a
lot to do with the fact that Mr. Brennon
was and is a key player in the develop-
ment, deployment, and use of America’s
drone program overseas, as well as at
home. As a justiﬁcation for the use of
the program, President Obama stated,
“we conduct these drone strikes because
they are necessary to mitigate ongoing
actual threats, to stop plots, to prevent
future attacks, and to save American
lives. These strikes are legal, they are
ethical, and they are wise.” Neither the
President nor Mr. Brennon have made
clear the exact legal or ethical criteria
used in their assessment.

Also left unexplained is the legal jus-
tiﬁcation for violating a U.S. citizen’s

right to a fair trial on the mere suspicion
of terrorist activity. While Mr.‘ al-Awlaki
was ce1tainly—from all available evi-
dence-a violent terrorist, he was still
a U.S. citizen, and therefore entitled to
a lawyer, a trial in a court of law, and
his 5th Amendment liberties. When he
was killed on the President’s order, he
was robbed of those liberties simply be-
cause one man (the President) ordered
it so. According to House. Intelligence
Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-
MI) however, there is “plenty of over-
sight” on the drone program. He states
that as a chairman of his committee, he
conducts monthly reviews of the CIA,
and is “aware and part of those discus-
sions” regarding the targeted killings.
What he seems to have failed to men-
tion is what he is able to do as a member
of the House of Representatives to stop
a drone strike on someone he feels is be-
ing falsely accused. ‘ -
Still, the increased use of drone

against suspected terrorists overseas,
even one that is an American citizen,
is not what worries me. I highly doubt
that this administration would make the
jump to using such methods domesti-
cally, or even west of Libya. What wor-
ries me is what future administrations
may do with the precedent being set by
this program, those set by the Patriot
Act, and the implications of President
Obama’s signing of the 2012 National
Defense Authorization Act.

As readers may know, the Patriot _

Act (enacted in early 2002 and reautho-
rized three times since) allows the U.S.
government to do several things that are
constitutionally questionable at the very
best (from The American Civil Liberties
Union):

° Access citizens’ ﬁnancial records,
phone records, medical history, intemet

activity, travel patterns, and other infor-
mation held by a third party without the
traditional requirements of: A

0 Evidence that the target of a search
is an “agent of a foreign power”

0 Reasonable suspicion that target
materials are related to criminal activity

0 A search warrant or even approval
from a judge

- Engage in surveillance based on
a citizen’s First Amendment activities
such as intemet activity, book purchas-
es, or letters to the editor (that probably
covers this very article)

° Conduct (secret) physical searches
and wiretaps to obtain evidence of a
crime without proving probable cause
as the Fourth Amendment requires

This boils down to the FBI having
the power to completely sidestep ju-
dicial oversight by simply uttering the
phrase “terrorist suspect.” I

Even still, this is not enough to wor-
ry me. There are several cases working
their way through the U.S. court sys-
tem that will eventually make it to the
Supreme Court where even the most
inadequate justice will call the Patriot
Act unconstitutional. The law that truly
unsettles me, the one that could make
the drone program and the Patriot Act
truly frightening, is the 2012 National
Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).

In 2011, President Obama signed the
NDAA into law as he has done every
year of his Presidency, specifying the
budget expenditures for the Department
of Defense, and allowing Congress to
engage in oversight of the Department
of Defense. Typically, these yearly bills
carry a few other provisions regarding
defense, but raise few eyebrows due
to their routine nature and the fact that
they’ve never really been used for any-
thing but budget allocation. However,

that year’s NDAA carried a very unique
provision stating that the President has
the authority to “use all necessary and
appropriate force” to detain “covered
persons” “under the law of war without
trial until the end of hostilities.” What
are “covered persons”? The act deﬁnes
“covered persons” as:

1. “A person who planned, autho-
rized, committed, or aided the terrorist
attacks on September 11, 2001, or har-
bored those responsible for the attacks.”

2. “A person who was a part of or
substantially supported al-Qaeda, the
Taliban, or associated forces that are
engaged in hostilities against the United
States or its coalition partners, including
any person who has committed a bellig-
erent act or has directly supported such

hostilities in aid of such enemy forces.”

Sound unfamiliar? Don’t feel bad;
the U.S. media completely missed this
incredible violation of the U.S. Consti-
tution without so much as a questioning
glance. This complete lack of joumalis-
tic diligence came even as the President
himself—~just before promptly signing it
anyway—said he had “serious reserva-
tions with certain provisions” of the bill.
Regardless, upon signing this incredible
affront to our civil liberties, he had the
nerve to attempt to placate what little
outcry there was by simply promising
not to use the greatest legal trump card
given to a President since the phrase
“executive privilege.” I apologize if I
sound cynical; I simply have an exten-
sive record of Obama’s broken promises
to work from, like his promises to:

° Close Guantanamo Bay-BROKEN

- Clarify the legal status for defense
contractor personnel-BROKEN

° Stop circumventing the Geneva

Convention in America’s handling of
war detainees—BROKEN

- Stop prosecuting citizens using,
growing, and/or distributing medical
marijuana in “clear and unambiguous
compliance of state law.”-BROKEN

° Never use signing statements and
executive orders to circumvent legisla-
tion signed into law-BROKEN

Disregarding the human rights is-
sues against non-U.S. citizens con-
tained in this language, nowhere in this
or any other language of the rest of the
NDAA does it exempt US citizens from
this treatment. This act authorizes the
President to detain any U.S. citizen sus-
pected of terrorism without a lawyer or

trial until the “end of hostilities.” What '

does “end of hostilities” even mean in
the conﬂict our country ﬁnds itself in?
When the U.S. military and her allies
leave Afghanistan? When radical Islam
no longer inhabits the thoughts of any-
one on Earth? When no one on Earth
ever gets frustrated enough to pick up
a gun and try to depose an American-
supported dictatorship under the guise

of a religious motivation? l’ll tell you I

when: whenever the U.S. government
says it’s over.

By using the Patriot Act, NDAA, and
drone program, future presidents will be
able tohave the FBI tap the phone of a
political blogger with a less than favor-
able opinion of the President, shouting
‘‘national security” right past the judge’s
otﬁce. Then, he can send the National
Guard to his house, have him arrested,
and keep him in jail without charging
the blogger until the “end of hostilities.”

« Or, if for some reason he can’t ﬁnd the

blogger, he can just have him killed with
a drone strike and call him a terrorist to
answer any awkward questions from a
news media that gets easier and easier to
fool every time.

 

  
 

MONDAY, MARCH 11,2013 , 6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

arts&|ife -

  #Tﬁio[0e5Somj'-‘1/om

Editor-in—Cfiief

 

Design Editor

Wondering why the paper looks so different this week?

Washington and Lee University’s own Ring-tum Phi recently went to San Francisco, California for
a national college newspaper conference, where we met more than ﬁfty editorial staffs from around the

j_  country. It was awesome. And thanks to the Journalism School and Career Services, we could afford
' to go. That’s the beauty of a school like W&L. There’s always a way to go.

' Here’s the run-down of what happened: We ﬂew in on Wednesday night, and had all day Thurs-
day to explore. We walked almost sixty blocks from the Fisherrnan’s Wharf down to Chinatown. We
ate brunch with the sea lions of the Wharf, lunch with some hipsters in Little Italy, and dinner in the
sketchy basement of a steaming Chinatown alley. ‘

Alright, that last one deserves an explanation, as it was my favorite memory from the trip. After a
long day of exploring the city and gallivanting up and down the hills, we found ourselves deliriously
in the middle of Chinatown. We had asked the concierge at the hotel for a dinner recommendation, but

' 1" all the places he gave us were sterile and generic and, well...safe. Being the adventurous types, we
asked one of the clerks in a souvenirs bazaar where her favorite place to get “cheap and good” food
was. Her immediate response was, “Are you okay with basement food?” We were onto something here. She pointed us in the direction of
a dark alley with steam rising from the sewer vents. The smallest possible doorway and staircase led us to an incandescent basement ﬁlled
with locals and menus in solid blocks of Chinese. When the food arrived, it‘ was stacked in front of us in mountains of plates the size of small
countries. We were all ﬁt to burst in approximately twelve minutes, and the total bill per person came to less than ten dollars. The moral of
the story is to say yes to basement food. .

Friday and Saturday were packed with journalism and newspaper design from 9 am to 5 pm, and then homework after dinner (we are
W&L students after all). Sunday was a zero dark thirty flight back to the east coast. Look forward to watching our metamorphosis for the rest
of this year and even bigger changes for next year. Between the ﬁve of us, we are stuffed with every possible new story idea, design element,
and angle to cover. [Teaser alert: there is a real website on the very close horizon]. So enjoy browsing our trip to San Francisco, and all the
incredible things we learned! ’

fbifia. Lang

When I look back on our trip to San
Francisco, there are so many memorable
moments that come to mind; whether it
be exploring Fisherrnan’s Wharf, delving .
into Cynthia’s cultural roots in Chinatown,
or nearly being hit by a riding crop in a
lecture (I know this sounds weird, but the
Professor preferred riding crops to point-
ers), there was never a dull moment during
the conference.

One highlight of the trip was venturing
to Coit Tower on our day off from the con-
ference. Our journey to the tower began
in Fisherman’s Wharf. where we noticed
the tower off in the distance and decided
to check out its view; little did we know,
we were in for quite a hike. Starting out
at sea level, we were soon in the midst of ‘
the infamous hills of San Francisco. Leigh
(our track star), of course, was in the lead,
sprinting up the hills, while the rest of us
were huﬁing and puffing behind her. Al-
though the walk proved to be a “steep”
challenge, it was deﬁnitely worth the spec-
tacular view. It is hard to beat a view of
San Francisco Bay with the Golden Gate
Bridge in the distance!

After exploring all day on Thursday,
we had the pleasure of attending the As-
sociated College Press Conference. There .
were so many incredible professors and
professional journalists that attended the
conference and shared their personal ad-
vice with all of us. Although I could prob-
ably write a novel ﬁlled with all of the
information I gathered during the two-day
conference, the main tip I came away with
is to not be afraid to stir the pot. Start a

Juficinna Scitterfy

Opinions Tditor

3-» r‘: » . ’ . "- 1 ‘- When the idea ofgoing to San Fran-
 5 - ’ cisco to attend a convention ﬁrst came
up, it seemed like the kind of thing that

would be fun to think about but would

never actually happen. San Francisco,

" lapart from being clear across the coun-

 try, seemed like much too large a place

 for the editors of our little W&L news-
‘I

paper.

So when it became clear that we
 were, in fact, going to this convention, I
3 i couldn’t help but worry about what was

going to happen once we got there. It

Cyntfiia Lam
ﬂlflie We iss

    

Trsay mornig. Instead of sitting in  I i I  Wasnil “mil We were Wmewhere OVCT . .

. . . ‘ , - - - c t e ! J 1 t ed
class and funously scnbblmg notes from V Keontucky that my nerves gave way to excitement. Here we were, flying into t(‘)"“)‘:‘:l‘£)(:lSli'pic‘1’(‘::;at11]Sen‘sa1j§eIﬁsutgulgpooiot J.
the chalkboard, I was standing smack dab 70 weather, towards the home ofthe Golden Gate Bridge, cable cars, and (‘ﬁi.1— t V f rt‘ le I t b . _t .;;, .
on the Bay Bridge, right in the heart of San gers crossed) an actual Sta’rbucks. I couldn’t have asked for a better California 5 ray 3W3)’ mm 3“ 3 10 I115 3031156 1

might start a debate: these sorts of articles
are what draw readers’ attention and keep
them on their toes. .

This is one of the many things that
the Ring-tum Phi hopes to work on over
the course of the semester. Thanks to the
J-School and to the speakers at the con- ‘ *
ference, we will be revamping the Phi as
we move forward in the hope that these
changes bring us a stronger following of
student readers.

Francisco’ Calif_ The Salty Scent of Seawater experience than Thursday, when we spent the entire day roaming various piers,
shopping at Fisherman’s Wharf, and soaking up the west coast sunlight. My
favorite moment was when we kicked off our shoes and sat dockside, enjoying
the fact that we were thousands of miles away from classes while the Paciﬁc
Ocean rose and fell across our ankles.

This isn’t to say that I didn’t learn a truly inspiring amount of information
about journalism“; we all came back bursting with ideas about how we could
improve what no longer seemed to be such a little newspaper. But the most
important thing I learned out there was to embrace the scary opportunities.
They’re usually the ones that take your breath away.

wafted in the air as the waves lapped softly
against the pier. Never have I felt more at
peace. There I was, thousands of miles away
from campus, gazing out at one of the most
breathtaking sights in the world - and this
wasjust the beginning. I
These ﬁve days opened my eyes to a myr-
iad of amazing experiences, from the beauty
of San Francisco to the inspiration presented
in the conference. Throughout the weekend,
I gleaned so many different ideas from the
, speakers, workshops, and fellow journalists
there. Attending “Sex, on Deadline: Cover-
ing Campus Love, Lust, and Every Kink in
Between” was one of my favorite moments,
because it showed me aworld of possibil-
ity pn what could be covered in the news-
paper. Seeing what other publications have
done, and the incredible impact those stories
have had on campus, inspired meto bring the
same sort of in—depth coverage and excite-
ment to the Phi (coming soon: a love, rela-
"-1rl1'O'IliSI'1lpS, and sex columnl). After all, jour-
 Vlismis about taking risks and reporting the
I truth, and that’s exactly what we aim to do.
Going to this conference was deﬁnitely
one of the highlights of my semester! It
 would not have been possible without the
generosity of the journalism department and
the dedication of our devoted Phi readers.
~ Never would I have imagined that I would
be standing on the Bay Bridge on asunny

  
   

Sports Z-fcfitor
’ V, j  - ’  The Ring-tum Phi’s editorial staff trip to San Francisco was the experience of a lifetime. I was
able to learn so much about joumalism, about the city, and even about myself. The extended week-
end was packed with catching the sights and going to journalism sessions, and of course I could not
forget to do my track workouts.
When I entered the ballroom for the ﬁrst keynote speaker I was unsure of what to expect. Would
I have already have heard all of this from my journalism professors here at Washington and Lee or
would I learn a ton of new information that I wish thatlhad leamed before I was a junior?‘ Was it
going to be worth missing two days of classes to attend acollege newspaper conference?
- if  es, yes and yes. The truth is that I have heard some of whatyyaas disgugssed before
7 . in Reid Hall; But I3-—also‘I83“?€d many new things. In Reid Hall I knew how to be*":i"l5etté“ii‘1‘éspoi;t,eij,,,....< is 
At this conference I leamedihiow’-ti;_be a_ better editor. Overall I learned many very important les-
sons. I learned to trust my interests. If I soiriething isinteresting than probably somebody else , 1
will to. I already have the best camera for what and it’s my smartphorie. And ﬁnally,_I~ «i » ;v'°*”” .

   
 
 
   
   

  
  

feign Damn/iauser
.3

learned that the answer will always be no if you don’t"a\S’I(;_3-;    ; *1 ,
on our trip. I didn’t have"'to  49: ,
"up to Coit Tower because I

‘ being able to see the fog

These are going to help me, even outside of the world of journalism. They had alre';‘>idy’~helped 
around an extra camera while we explored the city. If I didn’t ask if anyone wanted to try andirnake
thought it would have been a fun experience then we wouldn’t have gone. Standing at the top of th’
_MarCh morning, Soaking in thesights and rollingacross the Golden Gate Bridge was easily my favorite moment of the trip. _ - f. ;~ . ‘ me e  V J 
 — absorbing the passion of Storytelling Sup ' While standing in the airport waiting to board our ﬂight back to the East Coast I was thankful for_.the’,o7 A A vitiesethat this *tr1'p:ha_d  

rounding me. Moments like these are why . given me. In addition to the knowledge and the sights, lwas able to see my uncle who I rarely see becauge  istapgie between us. If
it wasn’t for the generosity of the journalism department I wouldn’t have been able to have that with him, nor cou "°—I-"i'i‘ave been able to
say thatit was one of the most enjoyable learning experiences of my life. »

    

we have an “Arts and Life” section, because
' that is where the simple beauty comes alive,

throbbing and ethereal. Yes, it is Thursday

morning, but here, it is so much more.

     
  

AME
Ween

 
 

. ‘V:

ann auserln ront of the oden ate Bde.

 

  
 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013 7 . THE RmG.1-UM pp” .

    

ll gou haven't read our exploits on the previous page get, gou should. It will explain a lot.

Bach? Great. So we have given gou a hlanlt page, and we want gou to lill it [metaphoricallg ol course, unless gou actuallg want to give us this page l)El(2l( with gour ideas and scrihhles]. What do gou want
us to tallr ahout? Post it on Twitter or Facehooh with #tellthephi. Are gou creative? Funng? Draw cartoons For us. Something or someone to piclr a hone with? You alwags have a hlanlr spot in Opinions.
The hest part: we are redesigning our nameplate [see the top ol the Front page, it sags The Ring-tum Phi etc.], and we want to picl( someone From the student hodg to design it lor us.
. The Rules:
I. you must include the lollowing phrases:
The Ring-tum Phi
By the students and lor the students since l897
Washington and lee llniuersitg
And a place For the date and issue numher

2. lt must either he electronicallg generated or drawn on an "X" piece ol white paper.
3. your entrg must he dropped otl at the Phi ollice [Commons 341] or emailed to us [phi@wlu.edu] hg the last dag of classes this gear, Mag I7.

G()()(l llI(Il(!

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

arts&|ife

 

 

  More than just ABCS and 123s

ESOL members spent February Break in the Dominican Republic, teaching English to the village kids and natives

By Athena Cao
STAFF WRITER

This time, it’s all about the kids. In-
stead of teaching baseball players at the
San Diego Padres’ training camp, as it
has done in the past, English for Speak-
ers of Other Languages (ESOL) sent 12
students to teach primary school stu-
dents English in a Dominican Republic
village over February Break.

During the week, the group enjoyed
more than just the beach and sunshine.
At 9 a.m. every day, half of the group
walked to the local primary school to
teach basic English words like colors,
body parts, and days of the week. They
made the learning experience fun for
the students by singing the “Days of
the Week” song and dancing along to
“Head, Shoulders, Kneesiand Toes.”

 

"rm Jor 17- :.t._:t

The ri

 

.   l   .3.  '

Because Dominican teachers have
been on strike due to complaints over
their low salaries, thevprimary school
students have only been able to go to
school for an hour every day. So after
10 a.m., the teaching half of the group
would walk twenty minutes to the after-
school program, where the other half of
the group was taking care of the kids.
The after-school program allowed the
group to communicate with local chil-
dren, learn more about their lives, and
to simply have a good time.

It is often assumed that children in a
remote village are shy, but they can be
very outgoing. All of the kids loved pos-
ing in front of cameras and taking pic-
tures of everything they saw. At lunch,

‘1.

   

_f,-12.», 'f¢'P"S,‘,-3-‘ . W wt

_ %$'; . V ,3./..

.4- » ,-._--'1». 

the group would review the photos on

their cameras and iPhones that the kids
took, and it would not be surprising to
see hundreds of pictures (mostly selﬁes)
on the camera roll. One trip leader, ju-
nior Vincent Kim, said his favorite part
of the trip was “hanging with the kids
who got swagger.”

Spending a week in a Dominican
village was like accidentally running
through the “Namia” closet, except for
the 80-degree temperatures. Najayo, a
village on the south shore of the Domin-
ican Republic, is not even recognized
by Wikipedia. Situated in the heart of
the Caribbean, it has a beautiful beach
and a clear view of the night sky with
dazzling stars.

 

Najayo locals seemed to be profes-
sional procrastinators on the beach.
Or maybe the natives living on the is-
lands simply didn’t face the pressure to
compete with others. This was demon-
strated one afternoon when the group
decided to get ice cream from a local
store. A sign on its door said the store
opened at 2:30 p.m. but the shop own-
er did not show up until about 3 p.m.

 e   l

      
 

‘ri
x.

Overall, this was an incredible learn  "
ing opportunity for everyone who went. ‘,2
on the trip. The students leﬁ a lasting ..
impact on the village, and in retum,
gained a lifetime of memories. This '
time, it truly was all about the kids.

For more information, please contact
ESOL by reaching Vincent Kim ‘ 14 or
James Biemiller ‘l5. _

    
    
      
    
    
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

  
 

    

ipactf that next drink

Dr Scott Schwartzwelder discusses the psychological and physical implications of alcohol on the adolescent brain

By Monica Devlin
G U EST w R IT E R

During a time in their lives when stu-
dents are supposed to be, maximizing
their‘ potential, are they actually per-
manently damaging it? On Feb. 28, in
a talk. entitled “Hangover 3,” Dr. Scott
Schwartzwelder of Duke University
came to Washington and Lee University
to discuss the long-terrn effects of alco-
hol on the young adult brain. As he said,
he did not come to preach or to scare;
he came to teach, so that students could
make their own informed decisions
about how to use alcohol.

Dr. Schwartzwelder described the de-
velopment of the adolescent brain, a
stagethat extends into the mid 20’s, as
a “double-edged sword.” The adolescent

brain has a greatly increased capability
to learn, but it also has an enhanced vul-
nerability to drugs, such as alcohol, and
to the possible long-terrn effects of those
drugs. These circumstances mean that at
a time in a person’s life when his brain
is speciﬁcally built to learn and has the
greatest potential to form long-lasting
memories, he is also at the highest risk
of damaging his learning and memory-
forming capabilities for the rest of his
life.

This phenomenon is due to the fact that
overuse of alcohol by people under the
age of twenty-ﬁve can affect the hippo-
campus and the frontal lobe, the parts of
the brain responsible for memory fonna-

x

tion, problem solving, feeling, thinking,
and planning. After the age of twenty-
ﬁve, when it has frilly formed and de-
veloped, the brain is not as susceptible

Hippocampuis .    f

to this sort of damage from the use of

al

cohol
So when students wake up and can-

not remember what they did the night
before, they have not simply lost a one-
time memory. If such occurrences are re-
peated over the course of several years,

St

udents may damage their memory

capabilities permanently. This damage
may mean that they will never reach the
full potential they could have, had they

not drunk heavily throughout college.

This is a frightening realization, espe-

 
 

If If‘!

<-fr‘



'~.

cially because it is much more damaging
to binge drink. Students who have heavy
schedules of schoolwork, extracurricular
activities, and group-work at night may
have the opportunity to drink on only
one or two nights a week. This situation
promotes the drinking of a large amount
of alcohol in a short time-span, or binge
drinking. If a student consumes a large
amount of alcohol over the course of
a week, but drinks it in two nights, he
inﬂicts a lot more damage than if he
were to drink that same amount over the

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

This was the
award-win-
ning article
selected
from Profes-
sor Blythe’s
class,
BIO-111:
, Addiction
- and Drugs
u f Abuse.
ongratula-
‘ ions to ju-
nior Monlca
Devlin for
writing this
piece!

      
  

course of ﬁve nights.

Dr. Schwartzwelder encouraged stu-
dents near the end of his talk by remind-
ing them that the very quality that makes
the adolescent brain sensitive to damage
also allows it to heal more effectively. So
there is hope. If students make smarter
choices about how much and over how
much time they drink, they can make
sure that they are spending college as
they are supposed to: increasing their
potential, not inhibiting it.

0

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

9 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

Timetotap

 

into your  
mner Muse

W&L is literary magazine takes center stage

By Caroline Hamp
5 TA F F w R IT E R
don‘t consider myselfa cre-
ative person. but this year I
contemplated contributing
to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s literary arts magazine. ll/II.\'(’.
Why‘? Because there is something
beautiful about putting the most abstract
concepts ofthe mind onto paper. Mak-
ing thoughts tangible is miraculous, and

yet we do it everyday. The purpose of
Muse is to take those expressions ofthe
mind and create a collection. a master-
piece.

Will Fulwider ‘ I4, the primary edi-
tor of Muse, understands the idea of
creating masterpiece and sees 1‘/lI.V(’ as

a collective, communal project. Each
person who contributes adds something
incredible. and the more people who
add to the magazine, the more poignant
it becomes.

Fulwider describes Muse as a cir-
cle of ﬁre. “Everybody has a creative
spark._ whether they acknowledge it or
not. M1/.s'e is a platform for these ere-
ative sparks," he said. “i’t»lz/se is an at-
tempt to take these disparate sparks and
ignite a ﬂame. Fires tend to attract at-
tention." ~

You don‘t need to be the next Von-
negut or Picasso or Bach to be a spark.
A spark can be anyone, no matter who
they are or how they choose to express
themselves. Said Fulwider: “It does not
matter if you think yourself a ho 'ilie
writer, painter, singer, or are con inced
of your eminent elevation to lit./z «
sic fame, we want you all to submit."

The .v\l1/xc staff have high hopes for
the literary arts magazine. Indeed, Ful-
wider himself lirst joined the organiza-
tion because of his desire to improve it.

“In high school, I was a very mi-
nor and little-contributing member of
our literary arts magazi ‘alled Bare.
Coming to W&L and ﬁnding that its
literary arts maga/_ine was little noticed
intrigued me." said Fulwider.

He decided to change that by be-
coming a part ofthe staff. Fulwider saw
a lot ofpotential in the literary arts mag-
azine because art can be so inﬂuential.
According to him, the most effective
pieces are those which "tug and play the
universal heartstrings like a lyre, yet the
reveiberations to each individual feel as
though they were played just for her."

This year, pl/z/se will be published
once duriiw ring Term, but in the fu-
ture. the s opes to publish multiple
editions each "’II‘. They also strive to
procure as many contributors as possi-
ble. Ful\\ider‘s ultimate goal‘? To have
every W&L student‘ to provide a work
ofart.

Said F uluider: “How wonderful
would it be if every single person on
this campus submitted a piece of their
creativity’? What a campus map that
would be.“

Considering submitting a part ofyou
to ll/1/sc‘? liven ifyou just have the tini-
est desire, please take the risk and put
yourself out there next year. Your art-
work could be the filial spark in a bril-
liant ring of fire.

By Josh White
STA F F w R IT E R
One of the many amazing and free op-
portunities that have been available over
the last couple weeks here on campus is
the Outing Club’s Kayak Rolling class.
Many of you are probably wondering
what exactly that is; [will explain.
When white water kayaking, the in-
dividual fuzzes himself into the kayak
to create a kayak-human hybrid capable
of going to exciting, but often less-than-
ideal places in rivers. Sports enthusiasts
do decide to go to these dangerous plac-
es because it is super fun! Those intui-
tive readers out there might have already
guessed some of the problems that come
with making a kayak an extension of the
human body — which is precisely the
problem when a kayak ﬂips over with a
person inside it.
Luckily for us, we do not need to
gworry about this burdensome deterrent
to white water prowess, for the Outing
Club has been hosting sessions teach-
ing kayakers of all abilities how to ﬂip a
kayak back up to its right side from the

 

,. -‘-‘izlr

Outing  oﬂers free lcayak roling classes for outdoor enthulasts

seated position. In fact, I myself have
been attending said kayaking classes for
the last four weeks. Having completed
my experience, I am ready to share all
that you need to know, and hopefully to
inspire you to get out there yourselfl.

The kayaking classes take place in the
warm and comfortable environment of
our very own Doremus Pool. Sessions
last about two hours and allow groups of
up to six participants who are taught by
two instructors, including Outing Club
Director James Dick.

Even though I had never hadxany ex-
perience using white water kayaks be-
fore, I felt very comfortable and stayed
within my limits from day one. The in-
structors let me move at my own pace
and gave me the tools to succeed. With
the aid of such great teachers, I had my
roll down by the third session, and the
fourth was merely an exercise in conﬁ-
dence.

For those of you who are wondering,
the art of rolling a kayak is not ﬁtness-

dependent, rather, your success will rely
on technique and ﬁnesse. And for the
more ambitious, there are many other
things one can practice in the pool aﬂer
mastering the roll. Both instructors are
experienced in paddling technique and
alternative roll styles, and can offer help-
ful tips in these areas. Kayakers who are
really looking for a challenge can even
try to learn how to roll their kayaks with-.
out a paddle.

I cannot stress enough how great this
opportunity is, and the timing couldn’t
be better. With spring coming up, leam-
ing how to handle yourself in a kayak
could open up a world of opportunity for
you this summer, and maybe even spark
a new lifelong passion. Fortunately,
there are- many more to come! These
free classes will be held every Monday
and Thursday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.,
starting up again in the next few weeks.

F eel free to contact either James Dick
or myself for more information.

Take a spin with Kelsey Cotter

Junior Kelsey Cotter acts as both a student and a teacher here on campus, leading regular spin classes at the gym

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

   

Junior Kelsey Cotter holds a dual
status as a Washington and Lee Univer-
sity student and instructor.

A native of Salem, Va., this English
major’s selﬂess attitude inspired her to
become one of the University’s group
cycling instructors.

“I wanted to be able to motivate peo-
ple to work out in a fun atmosphere,”
said Cotter. .

She stands out among her fellow
instructors, as she maintains a full aca-
demic schedule in the University and
still ﬁnds time to teach cycling. For
Cotter, being a student and instructor
allows her to get a great workout while
her friends follow her lead.

Although she is an avid runner, Cot-
ter picked up cycling after searching for
a different form of exercise.

“I wanted a low impact workout that

 

I could alternate with running, and cy— l
cling seemed like the most fun choice,”
she said.

   
   

Cotter said that. she got lucky on her

 
   
    

road to becoming an instructor. While
in Boston over the summer, she en-
rolled in a Spinning training weekend.
She is a certiﬁed Spinning instructor
through Mad Dogg Athletics.

Now, she teaches classes at the Uni-
versity three times a week. “It’s a quick
45 minute workout with my friends, so
it’s the perfect break from schoolwork,”
said Cotter.

Cotter said her classes entail a vari-
ety of music and positions, keeping her
students engaged throughout the short,
intense workout.

Students and staff can spin with Cot-
ter on Wednesdays at 8:30 a.m. and 6
p.m., or on Saturdays at 12:15 p.m.

 
   
   
   
   
     
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
 

   

    
 

 
    
    

  

 

   

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

 

‘I Congratulations to the Class of 2013 !

GRAD FAIR
3-DAY ANNUAL U.G. GRAD FAIR

Wednesday, March 13”‘ — Friday, March 15”‘
10:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.

  Atrium, Elrod Commons

The time to celebrate the end of your four year journey is fast approaching! V

From the moment you ﬁrststepped on campus, you knew you were entering a most special place. The
deﬁning traditions of Washington and Lee University: academic rigor, student self governance and lives
measured by truth and integrity will mark you as honorable men and women and leaders of the future. As
your journey comes to a close and as you celebrate your graduation day on May 23rd, enjoy the memories

of campus life, afternoons spent at Goshen, hikes up House Mountain, Fancy Dress and the many
friendships you have made. Celebrate with family and friends this special day!

  ORDERING YOUR  
CAPS& GOWNS!

 

This is the ONLY opportunity to be
ﬁaedforyourenvironmentally

  

10- THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

“green ” caps and gowns!
(Purchase price is $50.00)

Washington and Lee
University

  Engraved Chairs
Arm Chair or Rocker

 



“a lasting memory”

  

The Official Class Ring

Seniors!
Order in time to wear for graduation!

A Balfour representative will be
available to ﬁt you for this handsome

ring.

 

2013 Graduation photos
(Each graduate will be photographed as they
receive their diploma from the University
President. Photos may be purchased at
PhotoStore after graduation)

Quality photo frames, lined
with a mat embossed with the University

name and crest are available at the Grad
Fair and the Washington and Lee
University Store

PhotoStore
photostore.wlu.edu

Fy

Fly ﬁshermen from W&L and VMIj0m

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

s p o rts 

11 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

    Women’s struggles will continue

Casting clinics and ﬂy tying lessons.

A ﬁlm festival and an invitational tour-
nament. In only their third month as a
club, the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Fly Fishers (WLFF) have ofﬁcially
made their debut.
_“We are just as interested in getting
novices on the stream for the ﬁrst time
as we are in teaching experienced an-
glers advanced techniques and tourna-
ment tactics,” Biology Professor Robert
Humston said.

Fly ﬁshing has been a part of W&L for
several years through the Outing Club
and led by senior Bryan Kloster.

Activity really picked up when
Humston began spearheading events
to connect W&L students with anglers
from the Virginia Military Institute’s
Fishing Club.

Humston, who taught at VMI before
coming to W&L in 2008, noticed there
were not many efforts to bring the insti-
tutions together. He has since worked
alongside Col. Lee Dewald, VMI math-
ematics professor, to bridge the schools
through sport.

“[Col. Dewlad and I] ﬁshed together
a few times and have always talked,"
Humston said. “We wanted to connect
[VMI and W&L] in service and as an-
glers."

Last year, before WLFF was even an
idea on campus, Humston led a series of
“learn to ﬂy ﬁsh" events with Col. De-
wald to break the ice between W&L and
VMI ﬁshers.

“[Those events] culminated in the ﬁrst
W&L-VMI Fly Fishing Tournament,”
Humston said. “It was one ofthe coolest
things l’.ve ever pulled off.”

At the beginning of the event, hosted
last March, Humston was unsure how

in

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

In the last month sports fans have seen
some huge strides for women in male-
dominated sports. Danica Patrick held
the pole position at Daytona, the Ulti-
mate Fighting Championship had their
ﬁrst female title bout, and a woman
had a try-out for the NFL. The strides
women have been making are remark-
able without a doubt, but do women re-
ally have a future in these sports? Will
we see additional women entering the
NASCAR Sprint Cup? Will we ever
see a woman in an NFL jersey, or in an
MLB uniform‘? I

As a female sports fan, it truly is dif-
ﬁcult being taken seriously because pro-

Road is difficult, but no impossible

For years, female athletes have strug-
gled to gain recognition in sports domi-
nated by males. Sports such as football
and baseball appear as elite fraternities
only available to the best male athletes,
with no space for even the most talented
females. One could simply chalk this up
to differences in physicality. but upon
closer examination, female athletes
across sports are staking their claim in
“male”-dominated leagues.

In some sports, incorporating females
into male leagues seems difficult and
far-fetched. For example, Brittany (iri-
ner recently scored 50 points against
Kansas Sate and dunked. Griner has
been dominant in NCAA women’s bas-
ketball for years. However, when coin-
pared to NCAA men‘s basketball greats
like Shaquille O‘Neal. the physical dif-

bringing the two groups together would
play out. _
“It started out as all the W&L stu-
dents over here and the VMI cadets over
there," Humston said. “But by the time
they came in for lunch, they were having

_ a great time together. Then the ﬁshing

pairs were talking strategy. It was so
great to watch.”

The toumament’s success caught
the attention of the press and inspired
Humston to establish an ofﬁcial ﬂy ﬁsh-
ing club at W&L. WLFF has continued
its ties with VMI and has connected their
program with other organizations.

"Now, W&L folks are constantly going
over [to VMI] and VMI cadets are al-
ways coming over here,” Humston said.

Since WLFF’s inception in
December, there have been about ﬁve
events leading up to the second annual
VMI-W&L Fly Fishing Toumament,
including casting and ﬂy tying clinics, a
guest speaker, and the Fly Fishing Film
Tour at VMI.

“Also, Kloster was instrumental in
connecting our club with Trout Unlim-
ited,” Humston said.

The national organization promotes
conservation of North American water-
sheds. Humston serves as the ofﬁcial of
W&L’s Trout Unlimited student chapter
and of the regional chapter.

“The local chapter...has been incred-
ibly helpful and supportive, with chap-
ter members volunteering their time for
[clinics] and serving as on-water in-
structors and oﬂieials during the tourna-
ment,” Humston said.

Similarly, WLFF incorporates ﬁshing
into service. y

“We organize stream cleanups and vol-
unteer to teach folks at VMI and Sweet

fessional sports are still seen as a man's
game, no matter what the actual fan base
is. Nonetheless, l’ve never seen playing
most professional sports as something
that women can really break into. Not
only do I think that it would complicate
the sports world beyond words, but I just
don’t see a large amount of females be-
ing able to physically perform in most
sports the way men do.

I think it’s important to note that some
of these female additions seem to be
driven by sex appeal, which may (unfor-
tunately) be the key to women breaking
into the sport. People either love or hate

-Danica Patrick but there is no denying

fercnces are overwhelming. Men"s bas-
ketball appears to be one of the more
diflicult sports to break into.

On the other end ofthe spectrum. soc—.
cer has become one ofthe most uniform-
ly accepted and enjoyed sports by female
athletes at all levels. The US. womcn‘s
world cup performance in Ztlll can at-
test to the popularity of the sport as a
whole. In this case, the womcn‘s team
was much more exciting to watch than
the U8. men‘s, who were not nearly as
successful in their World (‘up attempt.
This is perhaps an example of where
keeping men and women separate in
sport could actually propel female ath-
letes to higher public regard than their
male counterparts.

There are many gray areas in this dc-
bate. Much of what we know about

Briar how to cast and ﬂy,” Humston said.

WLFF has also worked with Project
Healing Waters.

“The purpose is to get veterans who’ve
been injured in combat into ﬂy ﬁsh-
ing,” Humston said. “Club members
have volunteered as guides and teachers.
Their assistance could be as simple as
tying ﬂies.”

In part, the second annual tournament

on March 23 is a reward to club mem- .

bers for their service throughout the
term.

Later this spring, the club plans to host
more events. There will be a beginner’s
event on April 27 at an alumnus’ Blue
Ridge lodge. Anyone interested is en-
couraged to come out.

“We want to provide people the op-
portunity to leam...it’s not magic,”
Humston assures any wary beginner.
“Just a simple 30-minutes _of practice,
and you’ll start to feel comfortable with
casting.”

For more advanced ﬁshers, WLF F aims
for a competitive level. Some members
already have a great deal of tournament
experience.

WLFF President Will Travis, ‘l4,
competed on the U.S. Youth Fly Fishing
Team in the 2009 World Championship
in the Czech Republic. .

“Before I met Will, I had no idea
competitive ﬂy ﬁshing was a thing,”
Humston said.

“There’s a lot ofinterest in competitive
ﬂy ﬁshing in Pennsylvania, West Vir-
ginia, Georgia, and so forth,” Humston

. continued. “We aim to send people to

those tournaments.”

In fact, WLFF received its ﬁrst invi-
tation to a tournament, the 4th Annual
Harrnan’s National Invitational Fly Fish-

the fact that she is attractive, or ignor-
ing her (30 Daddy ads. Anyone who fol-
lows MMA knows that the same can be
said about former fighter Gina Carano,
(she’ll be in the new “Fast and Furious”
movie) and new UFC Champion Ronda
Rousey. And I am still confused as to
how the woman was chosen for the ﬁrst
NFL tryout (for the Jets nonetheless).
The girl didn't know how to set up the
tee! Still there are exceptions, but this
may be what is needed to drive the ad-
dition of females in these sports, and we
can hope that soon we will get beyond it.

None of this takes away from the
strides that are being made by women.

female and male athletes is subject to
change and there are many opportuni-
ties for female athletes to make moves
into male sports. While I believe this
will occur in the future, many females
are already making a name for them-
selves today. Perhaps the most notable
of these athletes is Danica Patrick, who
is outperforming many men in her ﬁeld
of N/\S(‘/\R and proving her doubters
wrong. Patrick‘s success should inspire
other \\ omen to try and join NASCAR,
and it's possible \\e could see more rac-
ers like her in the future. In football, the
lirst female player performed at a draft
combine this year. Lauren Silberman at-
tempted to wow scouts with her leg and
make it to an NFL team. While she came
up short. she proved that this is another
opportunity for females in male sports.

It is awesome to see such success sto-
ries ofwomen in male dominated sports.
The ﬁrst female UFC ﬁght was one of
the most exciting ﬁghts I had ever seen,
(I’m more than a casual fan) and Dani-
ca’s feat was equally as impressive. is
there a future for the young girls who
say they are going to break the gender
barrier in the NFL or the MLB? There’s
no way of knowing, but in the mean-
time, I don’t think we will see an over-
whelming increase of women making
similar feats.

.1!

By Kyle Jaeger

STA F F w R IT E R
She also drew comparisons to Katie l-ln-
ida, the ﬁrst kicker in Division l-A foot-
ball. They both serve as examples for
future female football players to follow,
and in the near future I believe we could
see female kickers in the NFL.

It is dillicult to debate a subject such as
this, because there is so much that could
change in the future. Rather than con-
sidering this a “head-to-head" subject. it
should be viewed as a discussion. While
it is clear that in many cases it would be
difficult for women to compete on the
same level as men, there are also sev-
eral opportunitics for female athletes to
gain respect and fame in both male and
female leagues. For now. we can only
sit back and encourage female athletes
everywhere  we see what the future
holds.

g com etes as a team  

together to form an oﬁcial club, and have plans to compete

Participants of the ﬁrst annual VMI-W&L Fl Fishig tournament

courtesy of Steve Romine

ing Event.

On May 3 and 4, junior Julian Kindrish
and ﬁrst-year Oliver Nettere will com-
pete for W&L, the only University of the
16 teams competing.

The club has only been around for
some three months and already has great

plans. Humston and club members
strive to achieve competitive excellence,
all the while maintaining a pure love for
the sport and desire to share it with an-
glers of all skill levels.

 

 

  

12 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

sports

’1

I

 

  it

in the nu mbers
The total number of losses that the Liberty University men’s
basketball team had when they qualiﬁed for the NCAA Tour-
nament. They are just the second team in history to have
that many losses and still qualify. They defeated top-seeded

Charleston Southern in the Big South Championship to

earn the spot.

48

How old Bernard Hopkins was when he won the IBG light.
heavyweight championship on Saturday. With the victory

Hopkins became the oldest boxer to win a major title.

7

The total number of players ejected in the World Baseball
Classic game between Mexico and Canada. A brawl broke
out in the ninth inning after Mexico’s Arnold Leon threw a
pitch into the back of Canada's Rene Tosini. Canada won
the game 10-3. With the loss, Mexico was eliminated from

the tournament.

soapbox

“Whoever says that we’re just here as an

Big city team 
small town Lex

Harlem Globetrotters perform at Cameron Hall

By Kristina Seon
GUEST WRITER

   

Globetrotters game were ex:
actly what my friends and I
needed midweek as an ex-
tended study break. Grow-
— ing up in New York, I had
heard about the exhibition basketball team
frequently. The chance to see a full show that
boasted a combination of athleticism, theater,
and comedy was one that I simply could not
pass up.

The Harlem Globetrotters have a rich his-
tory, dating back to their start in 1927. The
team originated on the South Side of Chi-
cago but moved to Harlem as its home city
in 1928 because it was considered the cen-
ter of African-American culture at the time.
The Globetrotters became known more for
entertainment than sports as they gradually
worked comic routines into their act. Some
of the more notable Globetrotters through-
out the years have been NBA stars, such as
Wilt “The Stilt” Chamberlain, Connie “The
Hawk” Hawkins, and Nat “Sweetwater” C lif-
ton. '

My friends and I arrived at the arena, not
quite sure what to expect but we were not dis-
appointed. The players amazed us with their
tricks, artﬁil passing, and carefully crafted
and executed plays. One player even came
over the bleachers and shot from a few rows
up, at which he was successful after a few at-
tempts.

The best (or worst) part came in the third
quarter of the game. During a time out, a
player named Big Easy had stolen another
player’s water cup. Big Easy and Scooter, the
other player, came to the comer of the court

 

ront row seats to a Harlem

   
    

near us and fought about to whom the water
belonged. Big Easy was forced to give the cup
back, but instead took a spectator’s chicken
sandwich and ate it. Afterwards, he claimed

that he needed some water now so Scoot-
er, still mad about the incident, threw
the water cup at him and splashed all

of us in the first row. Right after, .
Big Easy targeted me and took my ,.l 

ill

jacket to wipe the water and sweat rt‘ $77
off of him. The situation would 
have been a lot more amusing ifit . ‘ kl
hadn’t happened to me. Needless '
to say, that jacket will be washed 
a minimum of three times before
I wear it again.

The Globetrotters entertained '
us with their jokes and cool
skills, but to be honest it was
definitely targeted more towards
younger audiences. The young-
er children were constantly 
laughing, begging their parents _‘
to ‘buy them the overpriced 3
basketball, and the ﬁrst ones ’
out of their seats at the end of
the game to get autographs. 
Even so, my friends and I
still had fun. I’m not sure if
it’s an experience I would pay
to see ever again but I’m glad
I got the opportunity to see it. .
Who says nothing exciting
happens in Lexington?

34*’, i.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 

. 3‘ ~ ,

   

4

 

   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 

2;‘ _

sic’

extra spring training game or we’re just
here to say we represented our country
and then go home obviously didn’t see how
intense that game was and what it means
to everybody that was involved.”

-canadlan baseball playanuaun Momeau about Canada's

¢nmovorursMadooln1hoWorldBasebaIlclaablo.Modoo
wonthogameln-3.,fromsl.com

“But you look at a guy like Kobe and he
doesn't care about nothing but going out
there and playing hard. That's a lesson a
lot of us have to learn - - especially young
guys.”

-Lnomaeleslalorowldrtﬂowaruabouthowhlscanie
mon1alltyIiaacliari¢addurln¢theNBAAlI-elnrBreak. Hotold
roportnrsthathewusafraldtomlasbirtwulnhIn¢Bryanthas
dvonhlmlrisplruuontnnotletmlssesusthlmdalimmrom
Sl.com ’

Athlete of the Week

 

Senior Mac Means has led
the 10th- ranked men’s
lacrosse team with 13 goals
this season in six games,
including three in Saturday's
11-9 victory versus Franklin
and Marshall.

 

ondeck

Slow start for L

Team has one forfeit and three losses against ranked teams

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

Junior attacker Katie Hagen runs the ball up te field.

‘I

ax

    

 
   

Hagen scored two of her four goals on the season in a 16-5 home win against Randolph.
Courtesy of Washington and Lee Sports Information

The W&L women’s lacrosse team is off
to one of their slowest starts in years, start-
ing the season of with just two wins and four
losses.

The season began for the Generals with a
forfeit to St. Mary’s due to several players’
suspensions for breaking team rules. In ad-
dition to team injuries and illnesses, Coach
O’Brien said that the Generals would not
have been able to ﬁeld a full team. The Gen-
erals then suffered a one-goal loss to current
#19 Christopher Newport. _

Since the losses, the Generals have opened
up play in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-

ference with two blowout wins after host-
ing Randolph and Hollins. They have also
suffered two home losses at the hands of #9
Franklin and Marshall and #2 Salisbury.

The Generals have had several key per-
formances through the beginning of their
season. First-year Emily Conway leads the
team in points with l_4 after commanding ap-
pearances against Hollins and Randolph. Ju-
nior Meade Brewster has had dominant per-
formances tallying eleven points, including
having a hand in four of the goals the Gener-
als put up against Salisbury. First-year Carly
Taglienti, sophomore Catherine Klinedinst,

and junior Katie Hagen have been offen-
sive weapons throughout the ﬁrst six games.
Goalie sophomore Cara Mulligan has had an

, impressive start to the season, establishing

her role as a leader in goal. Juniors Leanne
Stone and Olive Waxter have been dominant
on defense for W&L.

The Generals continue their ODAC sched-
ule when they travel to Roanoke on Wednes-
day for a game under the lights. Their next
home game will be on Saturday when they
take on Virginia Wesleyan at 2:30 on Watt
Field.

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday - Saturday . Sunday
B a s e b a I I vs Stevenson 3 pm vs.‘S. Va. 3 pm at Guilford 12 and 3 pm
G o I f" at OWU Day 1 at owu Day 2

Men’s Lacrosse

vs. R-M 1 pm

Women’s Lacrosse

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs. Va Wes 2:30 pm

Men’s Tennis

vs R-M 4 pm, Va-Wes 7pm

Women’s Tennis

vs R-M 4 pm, Va-Wes 7pm

at Roanoke 10 am

Track and Field

at Lynchburg Open

MONDAY, .

Who’s behind all the fun
this past week? Meet the
soon—to-be brothers of Phi
Kappa Psi.

Friend us on
Facebook!

       

MA§cH'

   

    
 
   

@ringtumphi

"\
P
4

Have a story ideafor us?
Send it to US on Twitter or
Facebook wit/1

News...2

 

Opinions...3
Arts & Life...5

“Q, as .
fr"

 

M ,l’Vec,-’1ttzes¢/c/ktT‘
 Partlysunny

I’ 

 '1"/zz.//we/(,1_tv’
“*5: Partlysunny

»,.N** “tag F/‘idea’

4‘?
Ah;

74- Partlysunny _



Sc1tzn‘a’a_i‘

 g «...1

 Mostly Cloudy

23?-45,°,-..- ..

,)~‘«i«<t,4 Szzna’a_t’

V’

 

my

  '  Part|ySunny
‘  31°"-43°

V Mona’at~'
we“  '  Cloudy

VT

32°-50°

 
 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS ANID FOR THE STUDENTS S|NCE‘.1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 17

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

Despite Washington and Lee Uni-
versity‘s Honor System, students should
take precautions to protect themselves
and their belongings due to threats from
the community, said Director of Public
Safety Michael Young.

“There are times when l do think the
Honor System gives us a false sense of
security,” he said.

On Tuesday, March 5, at around 7:30
'p.m.. a local citizen began banging on the
door of the Sigma Nu fraternity house,
yelling at the students to let him inside.
The fraternity brothers quickly called
Public Safety, who arrivedjust before the
police to take care of the situation.

Sophomore David Thomas, who wit-

nessed the incident, said the man might
have been high on drugs and had already
been accused of trespassing in the com-
munity. Thomas said that fraternities
commonly leave their houses unlocked
due to the schools Honor System.

“Well often leave our doors open, and
there'll be times when no ones there,” he
said.

Young said that theft has also in-
creased on campus this year. He specu-
lates that the recent spike in theft is to be
blamed on community members, rather

_V than students bound by the Honor Sys-

teni.
“We‘ve had issues with some of our
local citizens entering buildings this aca-

demic year,” he said.

He added that theft most commonly
occurs in the Commons, library and gym.

In fact, Head Wrestling Coach Nathan
Shearer described an
incident that befell the
team during a February
practice.

“All types of items
were stolen: cash, cell
phones, clothing, jack-

their belongings in the gym.

Young gave advice to the student

body.
“You can’t simply leave your laptop

ets jewelry shoes vED:”°vR_ [N Tc”,
etc.,” he said. ‘    
Young speculated as ,_ dog .>  g

to why theft has risen.

“I think that with
the tough economic
times people are look-
ing for easy opportuni-
ties to steal from us,”
he said.

Young said he has
seen students react to
the inci‘ease in theft.

“It would appear
that our students are
more [conscious]' of
their security and
aren’t leaving stuff ly-
ing around like they
were,” he said. He said
students are not leav-
ing as many bags in the
open and are securing

the creeper ,

Jmmeone to

Campus theft on the rise

Honor System creates a false sense of protection from local criminals

computer out unprotected for hours at a
time and expect it to be there,” he said.
“We are all responsible for our personal
security.”

. 

X .

 " --

9

if Men’s tennis crushed both Randolph-Macon and Virginia Weslyan in a doubles match last’ Friday. Saturday they lost to Mary
Washington, but rallied on Sunday to defeat Emory & Henry. Senior and Captain Ha
record of 8-3 after the weekend’s games. Photo courtesy of generalssports.com.

yden White has led his team to a season

51"‘) average party length

active fraternities

years SOLO has been
the “party cup "

SOLO cups per party

cans of beer
In one keg‘

Students don‘t tend to make the envi-
ronment their ﬁrst priority when enjoy-
ing Washington and Lee’s party scene.

  

Named the “most raging party scene” last

year by College Prowler, W&L sees a
great deal of “party waste.”

Where there’s a party, there are Solo
Cups. According to senior Mike Jensen,
his fraternity uses on average of 600 plas-
tic Solo Cups per party.

“Most of the time, we don’t recycle.
its more of an inconvenience factor,”
said Jensen when asked about his dispos-
al of the cups post-party.

These petroleum-based Solo Cups
impair more than support sustainability
with their slow decomposition rate, said
one UNC news source. Therefore, an in-
crease in the amount of Solo Cups ulti-
mately harms the natural environmental
process due to their failure to decompose
at a fast rate.

Director of Environmental Studies
Jim Kahn said that the two issues afﬂict-
ing W&L’s party scene are not only ex-

tensive cup usage, but also the “aesthetic

 

impacts of the laziness of party goers,
who simply refuse to put their cups in the
trash and throw them on the ground.” He
also points out the potential environmen-
tal problems of cups blown into the river
at the Pole Houses.

“There are two primary impacts of the
cups,” said Kahn. “One is that the county
is running out of landﬁll space, and this
is going to necessitate a more expensive
treatment of trash disposal in the future.
The second is the energy use associated
with the cups, which contributes to global

warming.”
However, without beer, there would
not be much need for Solo Cups.
Environmental impacts from beer

stem mainly from its packaging and trans-
portation. While aluminum cans are eas-
ily recyclable, kegs are efﬁcient in their
re-usage. An environmental advantage
of kegs is the lack of packaging required

compared to aluminum cans. While kegs

community.”

 
  

  

are a primary choice for most fraternities
on campus, there is still an abundance of
aluminum beer cans that go unrecycled.

“[Our fraternity] usually mixes it up,”
said sophomore Alex Cram. “We use
kegs because they are cost eﬂ‘icient and
cans because they are convenient and
sometimes preferred.”

W&L students have access to several
recycling resources on campus. Cram
said the recycling bin in his fraternity is
placed directly next to the trash can.

Kahn emphasizes the need to use
these resources out of respect for the en-
tire local community.

“Although the cups are usually
picked-up within 24 hours, the residents
of houses and apartment near the fratemi-
ties wake up to an ugly sight,” said Kahn.
“I think it also is interpreted by Lexing-
ton residents as one more example of the
lack of respect that students have for the

  

 

 

.\!‘|“li'.‘”'.A W‘
\,3»lP.‘. H .1; .~

 

 

 
 

I ‘W M, Mr 
K” .

Nw.,R2l‘2l)l3

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

 

Taking the road of

  humility

Speaker addresses the importance of humility at Phi Beta Kappa Induction

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WR lTE R

The best and the brightest of the Classes
of20l2, 2013, and 2014 and alumni were
inducted into the Phi Beta Kappa Society
Gamma Chapter of Virginia on Thursday.
Langboume M. Williams Professor of
American History at the University of Vir-
ginia, Professor Elizabeth R. Varon, gave
the keynote address.

This year the society inducted four se-
niors from lastlyear, 27 current seniors,
22 juniors and two alumni. The seniors
must have “excellent grades” while the ju-
niors must have a cumulative GPA in the
top 2.5% of their class. The alumni must
be alumni of at least 10 years, and must
be “distinguished.” This year the alumni
are faculty members, Professor Theodore
C. DeLaney ’85 and Professor John Holt
Merchant, Jr. ’6l. Three seniors who were
inducted last year were also honored on
Thursday with a “belated induction.”

Varon’s address emphasized the idea of
humility in tackling one’s work.

Varon looked back on all of her work
and realized that she had not done any of
it without help from others. She realized
that some of her best work had become a
reality with the help of many people, in-
cluding family, friends, and strangers. She
said the main lesson that she had learned
was to approach history with a sense of
humility, and that you have to “be humble
in your judgments, because we aren’t per-
fect.”

DeLaney said, “The speech was excel-
lent because it provided ﬁne insight into
the work of the historian that should apply
to scholars who do research in any other
ﬁeld in the arts and sciences.”

Inducted Senior Aleksandr Vandalov
said, “The professor stressed the impor-
tance of keeping a balance between being
proud about your work and staying hum-
ble throughout achievement.”

Vandalov related the speech to his own
life.

“It made me’realize that I have never
done anything ﬂawlessly; there is always
room for improvement,” said Vandalov.
“Also, each accomplishment was never

Phi Beta Kappa Initiates

CLASS OF 2012:
Ann C. Bernacchi
Blair Constance Gillespie
Alexis Wurth Harrison
Jessica Rene Strait

CLASS OF 2013:

Rachel Katherine Alexander
Weining Bai

Derek Arthur George Barisas
Alicia Owen Bishop

Danielle Kay Breidung
Michelle Amanda Coriell
Ainsley Olivia Daigle V
Elizabeth Rebecca Engel

Paige Elizabeth Gance

Michael Lawrence Grimaldi
Wayde Zachary Christian Marsh ‘
Madison Shea McCune ‘
Michael Scott McGuire

Amy Leigh Nizolek

Leslie McFann Peard

Allison Emily Plump

Katharine Mary Price
Nathaniel Wilson Reisinger
Courtney McNeill Ridenhour
Delaney Oliver Rolfe

Kelly Mae Ross

Hannah Juliet Sackfield I

the result ofjust my abilities but relied on
the help ofmy family and peers.”

When asked about the honor of being
inducted into the Phi Beta Kappa Society,
Professor DeLaney said, “I am greatly
honored by my colleagues who have be-
stowed this award on me.”

“There is a humbling and humorous as-
pect to being tapped into Phi Beta Kappa
as an alumni member—that is the only
way that I could possibly have been a
member,” said DeLaney. “My college

Thomas joh n San ford

Qiuchi Sun I

Richard Dixon Sykes
Aleksandr Vladimir Vandalov

Emma Cait von Maur

CLASS OF 2014:
Ebony Lynne Bailey
Em_ily Grace Comer
Hillary Faith Cooper
Erin Gretchen Dengler
Ryan Atticus Doherty
Kathryn Elizabeth Driest
Max Dyer Farrington
Caroline Hodges Gill
Virginia Claire Irligginbotham
Christopher Winthrop Ives Ir.
Jordan Taylor Kearns
Ioseph Liu
Annelise Alissa Madison
Olivier Mahame
Julia Elizabeth Murray
Karen Arlene Roth
Andrew Michael Seredinski
Eric Matthew Shuman
Lorraine Marie Alice Simonis
Haley Elizabeth Smith
Jake Elijah Struebing
Thomas Christopher Wolff

grades were not shabby, but they were not
Phi Beta Kappa level.”

“I am very honored to have been induct-
ed into Phi Beta Kappa,” said Vandalov.
“I know this is a very prestigious award.
lt’s something l’ll be able to carry with me
for the rest of my life.”

Julie Campbell, President of the Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of the society, hon-
ored the new initiates by stating that they
are “those who have truly excelled in the
pursuit of knowledge.”

Under the microscope

W&L is new provost, Daniel A. Wubah, highlights his plans for change

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

Virginia Tech deputy provost Daniel A.
Wubah has been named provost at Wash-
ington & Lee University.

Wubah will take over as provost in July
once he leaves his position as deputy pro-
vost of undergraduate education at Virgin-
ia Tech. He said he is excited to move to
Lexington with his family.

“I am looking forward to listening to the
W&L community and learning about the
culture and priorities of the institution,”
Wubah said. “Working with the faculty,
students and staff to advance the institu-
tion’s mission is high on my list.”

One of Wubah’s ﬁrst priorities at W&L is
to get to know students and faculty so that
he can begin to understand their needs.

A

Dr. Daniel A. Wubah, the soon-to-be provost.

“Assembling that information will help
me to decide what we can do collectively
to enhance the academic experience of our
students by supporting our faculty in their

scholarly pursuits,” he said.
Wubah said that from this information.

website to understand W&L’s culture.
“The commitment of the faculty, the

“F or now, I think enrollment management in the

form of providing resources to support the distribu-

tion of students in various majors is an area that

1

needs attention. ’

DANIEL A. WUBAH, W&L Provost

he hopes to generate new programs and
activities that effectively satisfy students
and faculty.

In addition to im-
proving academic
programs, Wubah
said he is eager to
be involved with
W&L’s strategic
plan.

Wubah said he
believes that enroll-
ment management
will be one of the
biggest challenges
he plans to address
as provost.

“For now, I think
enrollment manage-
ment in the form of
providing resources
to support the distri-
bution of students in
various majors is an
area that needs atten-
tion,” he said.

_ _ Wubah was one of
I  several candidates
whom a W&L com-
mittee contacted
throughout the past year for the position.
He said that once the search committee
reached out to him, he began talking to
colleagues and looking over the school

high intellect of the students, the outstand-
ing quality of academic programs, the
dedication of the staff, the strong loyalty
of the alumni and the Honor code are a
few characteristics to which I was drawn,”
Wubah said.

Wubah added that W&L President Ken-
neth Ruscio’s vision for W&L aligned
with his own beliefs and played a signiﬁ-
cant role in his decision to accept the offer.

In addition to serving as Virginia Tech’s
deputy provost, Wubah is a microbiolo-
gist and botanist. He said that he hopes to
teach courses in microbiology once he has
settled into his role as provost.

“I will take advantage of any opportu-
nity in the future to team teach a course,
especially one that will involve hands—on
experiences,” he said.

Wubah said he is excited to have an im- _

pact on the future of W&L.

“I am looking forward to engaging stu-
dents and faculty in intellectual discus-
sions that will shape the future of W&L
in my role as the chief academic ofﬁcer,”
Wubah said. *

Ruscio reiterated how passionate Wubah
is about undergraduate education.

“Daniel is deeply committed to under-
graduate education, which is why, at this
stage in his career, he wants to be at a
place where undergraduate education is a
priority,” Ruscio said.

By Hannah Howard
sr/arr wmrsn

New Pope announced I

The newest head of the Catholic Church was elected on Wednesday. Pope .

Francis is not only the ﬁrst to come from Latin America, but also the ﬁrst from
the Jesuit order. A day after taking the reins, he warned the cardinals that with-
out a serious and extensive renewal the Church would end up as little more than
a “compassionate NGO.” His election brings with it potential changes for a
Church in the midst of scandal.

EU collaborates on Eurozone
Econom

EU leaders met in russels on Thursday to discuss the current economic state
and options for boosting the Eurozone economy.’ French and Italian leaders ar-
gued for increased spending to aid growth, while German representatives pushed
for strict austerity measures. Thousands of people met outside the meeting to
protest the proposed austerity measures.

Afghanistan sporting match
attacked

Suicide bombers attacked a sporting match in Northern Afghanistan on
Wednesday. It is possible that the terrorists were targeting high proﬁle members
of the crowd. The district police chief was one of the wounded. Among the dead
was the family of a Parliament member. At least eight others were pronounced
dead. No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.

Anti-government protests
mark anniversary

Thursday marked the second anniversary of Saudi intervention in Bahrain.
The day consisted largely of riots by anti-government protesters. The demon-
strations proved that the opposition has not died since Saudi troops quelled un-
rest two years ago. Rioters threw ﬁrebombs at police in what were the worst of
the riots in weeks.

Corruption destroys crops in
Myanmar

Corrupt businessmen destroyed Myanmar farmers’ crops when they convinced
the government to cut of water supplies. The businessmen are using their ties
with ofﬁcials to steal the farmers’ land. Formerly, farmers faced violence if they
spoke out. But with the establishment of a more civilian-based government, they
are now comfortable protesting the thefts. A commission recently came together
to investigate the situation and stop the land grabbers.

CITES environmental
convention comes to close

A two-week conference of the Convention on International Trade in Endan-
gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) came to a close on Thursday.
People from 178 countries traveled to Bangkok to discuss various environmental
issues. The conference marked a few landmark decisions: Thailand agreed to
end its domestic ivory market; trade of turtles and tortoises was limited; and an
agreement was reached to restrict commercial shark trade.

Baghdad witnesses series of
bombs

A series of bombs went off in Baghdad on Thursday. Oﬂicials say that the
three car bombs and one suicide attack were coordinated near government build-
ings including offices, foreign embassies, and the house of the Justice Ministry.
At least 24 were killed and another 50 were wounded.

Protesting unemployment in
Algeria

Ten thousand people gathered in Ouargla, Algeria on Thursday to protest un-
employment and government behavior. The demonstrators stood in the square
and chanted, “the people want the downfall of corruption.” Although Algeria
has strong markets in natural resources, the people‘~do no beneﬁt from the wealth.
The protesters claimed that the government was preventing development in the,
central and south regions of the country. Although the groups refused to dis-
perse, no one was arrested.

Sexual violence on rise in
Democratic Republic of Congo

Information released by human rights groups and the UN on Friday stated that
rape and other acts of sexual violence are on the rise in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo. This comes after a statement by UN officials earlier in the month
that they would stop supporting Congo troops if the rapes did not stop. Armed
troops in the DRC often use sexual violence as a tool of war as shown by at least
126 rapes that occurred in the wake of a ﬂeeing oﬂensive.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

rom  editors

At the end of the aisle in Lee Cha-
pel. there is a pedestal with two docu-
ments. One is a large bound book with
thousands of names written in black ink.
The other is a tiny booklet with ‘a white
cover. You are about to add your name
to decades of students before you. Did
you stop to think before you signed‘?

The White Book is W&L‘s hard copy
ofthe procedures and statements encom-
passed by our Honor System. When we
sign the White Book [and since we are
a private University], we sign away our
First Amendment rights. For the most
part, there is no conﬁicting interest be-
tween the two. , I

Then there’s_the Student Body Hear-
ing.

When someone is accused of an hon-
or violation, the White Book grants the

right to a closed and conﬁdential trial. If ..

a student is found guilty in this trial, he
or she has the ability to appeal it in an
open Student Body Hearing. The White

Unfortunately for the Ring-tum Phi staff,
the clause severely limits our ability to
cover the Hearing.

And that concerns us.

We strive to dig deeply into issues
that affect the school community and
provide accurate coverage of the impor-
tant news on campus. In our opinion, the
facts of. a Student Body Hearing are the
news. As such, they should be shared
with the W&L community.

' Aside from the facts, we were told by
the Executive Committee and the Stu-
dent Body Hearing Chair that we could
not publish any statements from the ac-
cused in an article about W&L during an
open hearing. We were told that there
would be no discussion after they made
the decision, one made without consult-
ing us.

We were prohibited from practicing

- print. 'Social

-speak: we have an ethical duty to report
both sides of an issue and any accused
persons have a right to defend their sto-

ry]. As more ofa pressure point, they in- ’

sisted that we sign a press release listing
the changes to our agreement.

This is not to say that wedo not ap-
preciate the flow ofdialogue between our
organizations or the strides they made to
allow us to have a press box. We also
understand that as W&L students, we
signed some of our rights away in order
to gain access to the Honor System — a
system we greatly appreciate.

But we have to stop ignoring the
technology that is glaring us in the face.
When the White Book was drafted, mul-
timedia communication was limited ‘
to television, radio. and ‘ S

the ethical principles of accuracy and , . '

right-of-reply [translation
from journalism . ~

media is not going to disappear, and it
seems naive to trust that students of
W&L will not gossip about hearings,
Instead of allowing rumors to spread,
like wildﬁre, is it not better to allow
someone to spread the truth? As time
passes it will become harder and harder
to police rumors and murmuring, and,it
will be equally hard to sort out the facts.
We are appealing to the entire student
body, as advocates of transparency and
free speech. It is time for the student
press to be able to report all of the news,
and remain a beacon of truth and inde-

pendence. '

it is time to update the White Book.

-Neil &Julianna

News Editor &
Editor in Chief

Book states: “No information about the
Student Body Hearing is allowed outside
the Washington and Lee -
C ommunity.”

update

. In our Feb. I 1, 2013 issue we ran a story that PiKA was suspended
from campus. One of the stipulations for Pi Kappa/Ilpha returning
— to campus next fall is an apology to the student body.

gezét/d cuf LEE lll

“Hands Downthe Tastiest Truckstop in America”

Dear Washington and Lee community, - The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

A decision handed down by the IFC has suspended the Pi Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha on
Washington and Lee's campus. We are deeply saddened by this outcome, as we have en-
deavored to be good members of our college community since our colonization in 1896.
Our policy violations, as adjudged by the IFC, were endangering our new members as a re-
sult of having insufficient leadership and oversight within our house to be able to conduct

. our new member education program responsibly. For this, we as a fraternity would like to
apologize to those we have hurt. We do not take this suspension lightlyand are undertal<—
ing an evaluation of our pledge education process to ensure it conforms to Washington
and Lee's new member education regulations.

The following words are the Pi Kappa Alpha Preamble:

”For the establishment of friendship on a ﬁrmer and more lasting basis, for the promo-
tion of brotherly love and kind feeling, for the mutual beneﬁt and advancement of the
interests of those with whom we sympathize and deem worthy of our regard, we have
resolved to form a fraternity, believing that, thus we can most successfully accomplish
our object.”

This statement has been our guide for how we conduct ourselves as brothers of our
fraternity. It states that the bonds of fraternity run deeper than mere friendship, that we
are a community based on common interest, and that our bond as brothers is what allows
us to become greater than the sum of our parts.

We afﬁrm that the bonds of brotherhood we share as a house run deep, for our associa-
tion is life—long and our higher duties are to serve equally faith, family, community, alma
mater, and Fraternity. Pi Kappa Alpha will continue to be an instrument of good in the
university community by participating in philanthropy and continually aspiring to better , . 
ourselves as men. Our suspension will end after the current academic year and we will   _
return to campus next fall without restriction if the chapter meets the requirements set ‘if  Twmer @berkysf°°d
out by the IFC and the National organization, which we intend to do. We regret that our
. actions have resulted in our suspension and apologize again to those we have hurt.

—The Brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha ~

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday — Friday 6 -am — 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am — 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm — 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am — 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm — 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450
540-463-3478
wvvw.|eehi.com See our menu online

 Find us on Face book

 

 

 

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

 

DO YOU LOVE W&L?

CONSIDER KATHEKON
What is Kathekon?

Kathekon comes from a Greek phrase meaning: “to
serve.” It is W&L’s ‘student alumni’ organization.
The juniors and seniors of Kathekon connect with
top administrators, help Alumni Affairs with campus
events, stay ‘involved as alumni after graduation, and
have opportunities to network with alumni.

How does it work? If you arecselected,
next year you Will:

[I Attend some informal and short meetings to learn
about W&L from senior university officials.

I] Help lead the Senior Class Gift Project to support the
W&L Annual Fund.

I] Provide reliable and valuable hands—on assistance
to Alumni Affairs during large alumni reunions on
campus.

I] Understand, embrace, and promote the Speaking
Tradition.

El Be a leader of “Philanthropy Day,” when students

_ thank our alumni donors. 4

I] Assist with the “100 Days” party for seniors, and

Senior Night at Liberty Hall Ruins.

Membership Process:

Membership ‘is by application only, limited to rising
juniors and seniors in goodacademic and general
standing. Alumni Affairs seeks a diverse group of
students who have a passion for W&L and wish to
deepen their connection with the University. Alumni
Affairs staff and current Kathekon members will
conduct interviews between April 1 and April 3 with

those chosen as ﬁnalists.
Please send your resume and a brief statement of
why you are interested to Mary Webster, mwebster@

wlu.edu by March 25th.

 

WASHINGTON A\'D LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO
VICTORIA COATES
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
ANDREA OWEN
JOSH WHITE

DAVID THOMAS
PAQUI TOSCANO

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

It’s just time...

Should the Republican Party

By David Thomas
G U EST w R IT E R

The Republican Party and marriage
equality have not had the best relationship
in the past. This is understandably so as
we are the party of traditional values and
strong religious inﬂuences. At the same
time, we are the party of individual liberty,
small government, and religious freedom.
We recognize each person’s rights to enjoy
their liberties and make the choices that are
best for them and their family. It is in keep-
ing with these traditions that I believe the
Republican Party should support marriage
equality among all states and is the reason I
support gay marriage.

In the eyes of the government, marriage
is a contract in which the individuals share
in an economic and cultural relationship.
In the eyes of the church, marriage is a
commitment before God; a commitment I
believe is precious and sacred. The govern-
ment cannot tell the Pope what a marriage
before God is any more than the Pope can
tell the government how to run Congress.
The two are separate, each with their own
View on the operations of the other but
without the ability to control results. The
separation is key to our ability to enjoy the
unique religious freedoms we have. Re-
publicans champion these ideas and should
champion gay marriage as well.

Marriage is a contract that in all states
heterosexual couples can engage in. Giv-
ing the ability for some states to grant this
right to form a contract to both heterosexual
and homosexual couples while not enforc-
ing the recognition of that contract in all
states, is not equality _under the law. Re-
publicans believe in state rights and sup-
ported policies that allow states to choose
marriage requirements. The right of a state
to choose marriage policy, however, does
not bypass the Constitutional protection

 

to equality under the law as guaranteed
by the 14th Amendment. This protection
to be considered equal members of society
is paramount in a free society Republicans
want our nation to be.

Ultimately, the support of gay marriage
aligns with Republican values. The ideals
of limited government, individual liberty,
and freedom of religion are both reasons to

2"

support marriage rights in every state?

support gay marriage and fundamentals of
the Republican Party. I support gay mar-
riage because it is just and the Republican
Party should support gay marriage because
it aligns with their values. Ultimately
though, America should have marriage
equality because it isjust time.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Behind the scenes

For Several months the CRC has been working to update the White Book

By Paqui Toscano
GU EST WRITER

Since soon after undergraduate reading
days in October, the Student Body Constitu-
tional Review Committee has been meeting
and working on revisions to the Washington
and Lee Student Body Constitution. After
ﬁve months of meeting, the Constitution
has become more than just a document for
us; it has become more than just a collec-
tion of words that few people know about
and even fewer people have read. In short,
we have a vision for what the Constitution
is and can be, and we would like to share
that vision with you.

As President Woodrow Wilson once said,
“the Constitution of the United States is not
a mere lawyers’ document: it is a vehicle
of life, and its spirit is always the spirit of
the age.” Unequivocally, we feel the same
way about the W&L Constitution; likewise,
each and every student should indeed care
greatly about the Student Body Constitu-
tion because it preserves the framework of
the nearly-autonomous student government
from which every student beneﬁts.

Perhaps most obviously, the CRC’s revi-
sions to the preamble encapsulate this pivot-
al role of the Student Body Constitution by
reading that the Constitution is “the founda-
tion of [Washington and Lee’s] government
by providing the overarching framework
for its maintenance. Every student body
member shall adhere to these provisions
and applicable University policy.”

' With this goal in mind, the CRC
launched a campaign to make the Consti-
tution truly reﬁect the student-govemment
scheme at Washington and Lee. We updat-

ed, revised, and expanded certain aspects of
it, for instance, to fully reflect the breadth of
the student govemment’s partitioned nature
on this campus. Probably the'best example
showcasing these types of revisions is the
Article on the Judicial Branch, which spe-
ciﬁcally outlines the roles ofthe Executive
Committee (EC)~in itsjudicial capacity—
the Student Judicial Council (SIC), the Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board (SFHB), and
the University Board ofAppeals (UBA).‘

Although a copious amount of the work
we did—such as adding and explaining the
different, but sometimes concurrent, juris-
dictions of these fourjudicial panels—was
very detail driven, the CRC saw it as imper-
ative to ﬁnish our year’s work with a Con-
stitution that truly is the overarching design
for student government at Washington and
Lee. lndisputably, many of us take that sys-
tem for granted, but we wouldn’t be able to
do that ifthe Constitution did explicitly and
lucidly outline the role of each student gov-
ernment organization.

Because the Student Body Constitution
is a document drafted and revised in the in-
terest of the student body to preserve a rule

of student governance that protects every

student, the CRC added an absolutely cru-
cial Student Rights article, which includes
the following essential rights: (1) the right
to due process pursuant to the guidelines
and rules set forth by the University, this
Constitution, and the White Book ifaccused
of misconduct that falls under the jurisdic-
tion ofthe SJC, SFHB, or EC; (2) the right
to at least one honor advocate if accused of

misconduct that falls under the jurisdiction
of the SJC, SFHB, or EC; (3) the right to
appeal an EC decision to the Student Body
and to appeal a SJC or SFHB decision to
the UBA; (4) the right to vote in Student
Body elections and all matters voted on by
the Student Body, even if studying abroad;
(5) the right to appear before student gov-
erning bodies with any matter of interest or
concern.

We are not pursuing this amendment out
of the belief that current student g0vem-

Inent ofﬁcials abuse their power; rather, our‘

motivation in adding this to the Constitu-
tion involves our responsibility to the stu-
dent body to ensure that each student, now
and in the future, has explicitly guaranteed
rights.

I cannot emphasize enough that the
entire CRC feels strongly about all of our
amendments. We would love to talk to you
about these changes and more. Be sure to
vote March 26-28. If you’re still on the
edge about a certain amendment or want
to know more, please contact us. We have
spent a lot of time on these amendments
and see each one as worth of your approval.
The future of the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Student Body Constitution rests in
your hands.

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

Raiders and

srat cats and

Genghis, oh my!

The worst weekfor them, the best week for us. The last

week of pledgeship always creates a buzz on campus,

as the pledges from Phi Kappa Psi parade around in

anything from trafﬁc cop attire to the classic banana
and gorilla. Here 3' a look at our top 8.

‘;',“U?R(?}GGH!”

1 Explain your task for the week. , . A ' ~ I

_I am the warlord Genghis Khan and I must conquer‘
‘ all of Lexington. I like to pillage arid plunder, and _ ' 
. strike fear in the hearts of all students. A V I 

How much have you pillaged thus far? . ’
Three SSA blocks, a trashcan, a bench, a box of

“cheese puffs, one cigarette ash stand, a glittery,neck-
lace and a water bottle. a

.. VWhatis yourfavorite thing about your character? /
 Fighting or tackling people along with screaming.

‘Best reaction from abystander? ~ gt ‘

. A D-Hall lady told me, “Don’t do that .agai,ri,r.it7S, f in ii
iscaring people.” I I I    _,:. .;.

“Thereis only one team in football that is not'worth- .
.. less.” I - »

Explain your task for the week. V
I dress up like an angry Oakland Raiders fan and walk
- around being really mean to people in true Oak-

style. «

Just how good are the Oakland Raid-

ers?  _ I
_ Absolutely fantastic. They are better
‘  than every other team, hands down.

Why don ’t they win every game?
They do. They’ve never lost.

What would you say to some-
one who thinks the Raiders
stink? A ‘ ’

I would punch them in the
face. Enough said.

Who is your Favorite Oak- I A
land Raiders player? I’
All of them. Also the one that
throws the football.

Have you gotten into any

ﬁghts recently? ,

Five minutes ago, some dude

said the Ravens were the best
team so I punched him in the
face.

0 o -
Mitchell Brlster
t“‘Yoga is not just exercise; it is the meaning oftirue love.” I

2’ Explain your task for the week. A

:I teach yoga classes throughout the day, and
open the hearts and minds of students as I do it.
Yoga is my life. '

.....What makes yoga so great, in your opinion‘? ,
 There is nothing better’ than to feel the warm air _

A’i‘i:'W'l1at yoga pose is your favorite? .  ' T-_   s  _ ~ 
“Either Warrior Oneor Warrior Two,‘-anything that tones '
the glutes, really. » ' i I .

How comfortable are those yoga pants‘? ‘
A;They feel so wonderful, like marshmallow fairies;



':--‘caress the smooth curves of the body while you r’'' -
gracefully ﬂow from one pose to the next. a R —

arts&life

Matt Kiser .

“Look both ways before crossing...”

H Explain your task for the week." _
I help make Washington and Lee safe by directing trafﬁc during high-risk,
high-traffic times outside the Commons.

4 How many accidents would you guess you have prevented so far?
l’_robably hundreds, it’s a very dangerous intersection. Probably about four
ives. .« -

How often do you blow your whistle?
Whenever necessary. About 300 times a minute. At about 150 ‘decibels.

Is law enﬁorcement in your" future?
I think it’s ‘the duty of every citizen to enforce the law. So yeah.

Anything you don ’t like about your job?
’ Myshorts are too long.

KieranMcQuilkin ’ Smtlat

“Shout outta my srat ladies, don’t leave meow-t to dry!”

Explain your task for the week. a
I hang out behind the sorority houses with all the other cats and do feline
things. .

— How have you been treated by the girls living in the soror— ”
ity houses? ; I V
Sorority girls have treated me very well. They don’t seem g
bothered by an overgrown cat man stealing boxes or chas- 33> '

ing birds.

Have you caught any mice?

I haven’t caught any rnicebut I did befriend a
banana. I also caught about 3 pieces of plastic
that didn’t see me sneaking up on them. Stupid
plastic. ,

How many bowls of milk have you lapped so
far this week?
Two bowls of milk, two of hot chocolate
~ (hopefully made with extra milk)

Favorite part about-being a cat?

Well, I can say my favorite part is that until now,
meowing. at girls hasn’t worked out for me, but this week
its worked every time! I’d also like to send out a warning -
that cleartshiny stuff that’s-laying on the ground near the ,
trash in a bunch of pieces? Very sharp. Not for play— A
mg. ,

“It’s hard to resist all the tasty people walking by.” -4

Explain your task for the week. .

I am an alligator. When I’m not sunbathing to recharge my body, I
get my feed on and stalk my prey throughout campus. My favorite
food is tour groups. .

‘How many students have you consumed this week so far?

At least ﬁve or six people, a little below average. Happy Carlock was the most tasty.

Where is the best place to sunbathe? I
Right in front of the door to the Commons, also _because food is only a couple wiggles away. The pillars all
across campus make for great stalkingplaces. When it’s really cold, I hang out in the library. .

  Nate Breitenfeldt Mist

“My drawings come from my soul; I don’t even have to look at the subject.”
 _ Explain your task for the week.
,_ I offer free caricature drawings to anyone on campus.

"‘ Have you had professional artistic training?
No, for me my skill just comes naturally. Nature versus nurture, you know.

_: ._ Best comment from someone you drew:
V:;,:‘o ‘‘I am speechless,” or “breathtaking”... “the next Van Gogh.”

'i Any advice for aspiring artists?

. Practice makes perfect, so keep practicing. Don’t listen towhat other people say as
5»  long as you like your art. If they don’t like it, say it’s abstract. Cubism is way too hard;
 don’t do it.

Oliver Nettre  

“The poison ivy was a mistake.”

Explain your task for the week. .. -
I dress“ up in a ghillie suit, and instead of shooting people like a sniper
"would, I. just scare people. One girl dropped her coffee this morning.

Do you wear the suit in class? i V 1’ _ . V
Yes, but it is difﬁcultto see out of. It’s also ‘distracting when bugs ' '
crawl out of it onto kids next to me.

Do you feel one with the foliage acrosswcampus? ‘ ,,,  A A“ ' .; A I
Deﬁnitely. It gives me an opportunity to disappear, like going to . wt‘  V _  _. _.
astate school._,pg  “ p U A ' .  .  - V’ g ff ‘__  ’ A

What is your strategy for scaring people? , .1: 
Well, most people don’t notice me, so I normally just reach out and ‘

grab their leg or something. The key is to ﬁnd a spot where the path

forces people close to a bush. The best targets are sorority girls tex-

ting. , . ' -

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

 

Shaving for Saint Baldricks

W&L is very own Veronica Durando will shave her head for childhood cancer research

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

Not many Washington and Lee women
have the guts to shave their heads. All of
it. Hair, completely gone. Sounds terri-
fying just reading the words, doesn’t it?
Yet ﬁrst-year Veronica Durando has the
courage to do it. On April 13, at Rock-
bridge County High School, she will.
completely shave her head if enough
donations are made. The funds donated
will go to Saint Baldrick’s. Foundation,
an organization dedicated to supporting
childhood cancer research.

“I have decided to dive into the deep
end by donating all of my hair and rais-
ing as much support as I can... having
my head shaved will be a reminder for
what is really important,” Durando said,
putting it in perspective.

Apparently everyone agrees that a

-  ii '5

St. BaIdrick’s Foundation, ntionalorgnization, is dedicated
to promoting childhood cancer research.

There,C|i

. ..|\

 Josh White  ‘
5,’?-A,!=;l=; WRITER :4 

  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  

 

.  Last Friday, I climbed outdoors for the
_~ ﬁrst time this year at Goshen Pass, VA.
 I had been waiting eagerly for some
.favorable. weather to line up with a
0 free weekend, while keeping myself in
shape at the closest, climbing gym, Rise
' 7 Up, in'._ri‘eé1rl1y‘I;ynchburg. Fortunately,

I‘didij’.t"ha'xie.to wait long, because the

 on Friday was a comfortable
ﬂégrees with, few clouds in sight.
»  climbing, warmer weather is
’ usually preferred because rocks tend to

stay close to air temperature, and cold
‘ rocks are no fun to hold. However,
65 degrees did the job, so cold rocks
weren’ta‘problem.

  

Goshen Pass, for those unfortunate
few who have not yet been there, is a
breathtakingly beautiful area that pro-
vides a variety of options for outdoor
 recreation, ranging from angling to
0' kayaking, hiking to swimming, and of
course, rock climbing.

Goshen is actually a vague reference
to the entire area of Goshen where
. many established areas for climbing are
.'_ located. Where we were, possibly the
3 most accessible area, was the Maury
River Wall. The Maury River Wall is
a humble cliff of about 20 routes. The
routes range in rating from a 5.2 (basi-

. 7”...

BE BRAVEKGET BALD.

bald head will make a bold statement.
It seems like the whole school is sup-
porting her, not to mention her friends
and family from across the country. If
you are Facebook friends with her, you
can’t miss the Saint Baldrick’s posts.
Originally, her donation goal was $500,
but people were so enthusiastic that she
upped the stakes and her new goal is
$750. It seems like Durando’s motto
these days is “go big or go home.”
Saint Baldrick’s isn’t Durando’s ﬁrst
experience with cancer research fund-
raising; she has previously participated
in Relay for Life and also donated 9
inches ofher hair to Locks of Love. Her
reason for involvement stems from the
fact that, like most of us, she has watched
the effects of cancer on a loved one. Her

grandmother passed away from pancre-
atic cancer and her high school lacrosse
coach beat breast cancer.

“It is through witnessing their will to
survive and appreciation for their strug-
gle that got me to play a more active role
in promoting support and awareness for
those who suffer from the disease,” stat-
ed Durando.

She is certainly spreading awareness
and gaining support. Her courageous
act is getting plenty of attention, but
she knows shaving her head is nothing
compared to the experience of cancer
patients. They have the real courage.

“I could not imagine the mental and
physical strength it must take to ﬁght
and overcome cancer,” said Durando.‘
“Learning about what these people,

,2 .

  

  
    

   

ndo strives to spread awarenesst
cer research.

children no less, must endure to ﬁght
a cancer they could not have prevented
or foreseen really helps me put things
into perspective. Everyone deserves the
same right to a good life and participat-
ing in this event is a small way that I can
help in their struggle against this wicked
disease.”

There are tons of ways to help in the
ﬁght against cancer: shaving your own
head, going to the Saint Baldrick’s
event on April 13, or simply telling your
friends! If you want to help Durando
reach her fundraising goal, check out her
participation website, www.stbaldricks.
org/particinants/mypage/61 9 783/2013.

   

{ .

  
  
   
 

<1 I To get to the Maury River Wall drive to
. Goshen Pass and take the gravel road

cally scrambling up a steep slope) to a
brutal 5.l0 that could give most climb-
ers a run for their money. This range of
difﬁculty makes this a friendly area for
climbers of almost all abilities.

We set up top ropes (the most com-
mon andsafest way to climb) on two
routes: “Bicycle Grip,” a 5.7 climb
named for a unique hold near the start,
and “Vacuum,” a 5.6 wall with mul-
tiple lines of ascent. Both routes were
unique and challenging, offering amaz-
ing views of the gushing Maury River
below and the proud mountains all
around, once summited.

  

Regardless of the difﬁculty rating of
the wall, it is always easy to get an ex-
tensiveiworkout from climbing. By the
time we were ﬁnished, my arms were
pumped and my hands thoroughly rug-
ged. The fresh air of the Appalachian
Mountains and the soundtrack of the
river running below are an exercise of
the spirit as much as the wall is an ex-
ercise ofthe body.

What has and always will be the best
part about climbing, of course, is the
camaraderie, the quality time spent out-
side with friends doing something fun
and exciting, challenging and reward-

bed:T’héf    

"I-of , 
"*‘>*r:«'.-./I-:. " 7 . 
Directions:

 and walk along the Maury for _about

      
    

  

on the right to the footbridge. Once
across the bridge turn directly right 

    
     
     
 

300_vards and you will be at the cl:'rrib-
ing area.

  
    
 
 
 
 
  
  

     
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

ing. If you ﬁnd yourself getting tired
of the gym, yearning for the outdoors,
or simply wanting to have a good time
with friends, go climbing. Just remem-
ber that safety should always be the
ﬁrst priority. Get outside and enjoy the
nice weather!

Climbing gear is available through ”
the Outing Club for experienced climb- I
ers. If you would like to climb but
don’t know yet how to do so safely,
contact the Outing Club today!

und

..

world in

Dolls, Lolz
and Life: No
Chi|d’s Pla‘

Davidson is

dolls are creepy
insofar that they
eerily resemble
ourselves.

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

“Make Up,” an exhibition of
paintings and sculptures by Sta-
cey Davidson, was on view at
Washington and Lee’s Stan-
iar Gallery from Feb. 13 to
March 15. The artist gave a
public lecture at a closing reception for the
exhibit in Wilson’s Concert Hall on March
13 at 5:30 pm.

Staniar Gallery featured an exhibition of
paintings, sculpture, and works on paper by
Davidson. Davidson’s work reﬂects her in-
terest in the exploration of character and per-
sonal emotion, concerns that reveal them-
selves in her cast ofthree-dimensional dolls
which are portrayed in gouache and oil.

Trained as a painter, Stacey Davidson be-
gan to create dolls in 1997 to bring her paint-
ing to new and unseen territory. After a peri-
od of intense experimentation using the doll
form as a sculptural concept, Davidson re-
turned to painting in 2006. Having learned
how to sculpt, make wigs and costumes by
hand, the artist began asking how the dolls
might best be used within the context of her
two-dimensional work.

Often anatomically incorrect and with
vacant expressions, the dolls ultimately be-
came vehicles or actors for further explora-
tion with the medium of painting. Always
testing the media with which she works,
handmade dolls such as “Mrs. B,” “Rose,”
and “Lorrine” were used as points of de-
parture to investigate personal narratives
in gouache and oil. The results are at times
menacing and at others entrancing, but al-
ways with the aim “to expose the psychic
pressures and histories we all carry.”

In this exhibit, the poignancy of David-
son’s paintings is strengthened by the pres-
ence of the characters depicted. Dolls such
as “Rose” and “Mrs. B” are featured along-
side two-dimensional portraits that illumi-
nate various aspects of the dolls’ person-
alities. In an oil on paper work Rose, blue,
2007 (29 7/8 x 22 5/8 inches), “Rose” is de-
picted in a blue dress holding paintbrushes.

The two-dimensional medium is also used
to establish relationships between the dolls.
This can be seen in the gouache on paper
work Rose, Knecht Ruprecht, 2008 (20 1/8

v x 25 5/8 inches) in which the doll “Rose”
 is now shown with the much smaller doll

“Knecht Ruprecht” under her arm. The con-
trast between the sweet demeanor of “Rose”

" and the menacing features of “Knecht Ru-

precht” (who is known in German folklore
as a violent assistant of Saint Nicholas) ex-
empliﬁes the many facets of human nature

I’ considered in Davidson’s work.

The artist created a sculptural installation
speciﬁcally for the Staniar Gallery, react-
ing to architectural details in the exhibition
space. Davidson’s work is in the collections
of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, the
Weisman Art Museum, and the Cleveland

' Museum ofArt. She is represented by Marl-
v‘ borough Gallery, N.Y.

Davidson received a B.F.A. in painting
from the Maryland Institute, College of Art
(MICA) and an M.F.A. in painting from the
University of Cincinnati. She recently re-
located to Rock Hill, S.C., where she is an
assistant professor of ﬁne arts at Winthrop
University. She previously lived in St. Paul,
Minn., for 14 years as a practicing artist and
teacher.

 
   
  

S80  s. .. how about 3 hours?

Students set SAIL for an evening abroad, ﬁlled with foreign cuisine, exotic performances and colorful costumes

By Athena Cao
STA F F w R I T E R

Ever wanted to go overseas? Last Fri-
day night, the Student Association for
International Leaming:(SAIL) took stu-
dents abroad for the evening, by bring-

' ing the world to the Marketplace. The

20th annual Evening Abroad showcase
not only provided an opportunity for
students to see and hear about other cul-
tures, but also stimulated their taste buds
with delicious foreign dishes.

“lt’s an event that was designed mainly
by the international students to showcase
all of the wonderful cultures, and expe-
riences that our international students
bring to campus,” said International Stu-
dent Advisor Amy Richwine.

When trying a new restaurant for the
ﬁrst time, many people choose to or-
der something ordinary, like burgers or
chicken parrnesan, because it feels safer

to already know what is going into their
mouths. But at Evening Abroad, that’s
not an option.

Korean potato pancakes, rice in a pine-
apple, jambalaya, coconut macaroons,
curry with hard-to-identify ingredients,
sausage spread out on crepes... it truly
took some guts to try these dishes. De-
spite the uncertainty, these foods turned
out to be mind-blowingly delicious.
Freshman Meera Kumar could not agree
more, claiming the jambalaya and coco-
nut macaroons to be her favorites.

According to sophomore Thao Mee
Xiong, a student organizer who was in
charge of the food, all the dishes were
prepared by W&L student volunteers
and Richwine. “We sent out an e-mail
for volunteers, and we got a lot of feed-
back,” Xiong said. “[Sophomore] Cathy

[Wang] made pineapple rice from China,
[Richwine] made the chili-corn muf-
ﬁns, and I made some Korean potato
pancakes, which I hope are really good,
and we just have a little snacks here
and there... so, hopefully a taste of the
world.”

It was also a visual feast for students
who were dressed in costumes represent-
ing different cultures. An international
student from Mongolia, Oyumaa Daich-
inkhuu, wore a traditional Mongolian
dress that she had brought from home.
Alejandro Paniagua and Soﬁ Sequeira,
both from Costa Rica, presented the at-
tire ofmen and women back home. Rich-
wine showed her collection of costumes
from around the world and allowed
students to try them on. According to
Xiong, the willingness and enthusiasm

to try costumes from foreign cultures
showed the openness of W&L students.

Sophomore Lauren Mosely was one of
the students who borrowed a costume
from the collection. “I am wearing an In-
dian costume. [Richwine] had extras and
she let me wear it,” Mosely said. “I am
actually performing as well. A group of
us are doing a song called “Like This”
by a Korean hip-hop group called Won-
der Girls.”

According to Mosley, only one of the

three people in their performance of the -

upbeat Korean song was actually Kore-
an.‘ This demonstrated the wide breadth
of interest in foreign culture. In addition
to her rendition of “Like This,” Mosely
also performed a hip-hop dance.
Throughout the night, many students
presented examples of foreign folk art,

and three students who recently came
back from studying abroad shared their
stories. Kumar sang the Indian song,
“Jhoolatha Radha,” that she was named
after. Senior Kendre Barnes, who just
came back from Spain, presented Se-
villanas folk dance and ﬂamenco while
wearing a bright red and white Flamenco
dress. ~

Daichinkhuu enjoyed watching the
performances. “I really liked the cul-
tural dances that a lot of W&L students
performed, including [freshman] Karen
Villarroel’s Bolivian parade dance, the
ﬂamenco dance and the Korean hip-hop
dance,” Daichinkhuu said. “[Now] I am
really inspired to study abroad and make
plans for my future.”

'..
. "1 V.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

W’

{nostalgia}

Through the years FD has done some
0 pretty crazy and really awesome
things. Here 3 a look back at the past

  (907

The  Dress was held,
Q and completelyfuggded by, librarian
Annie I/y,Vlzz'te,,‘.;_.y;;Thye budget was $42.

are-W

Fancy Dress ball was held in a
skating rink.

 

Guests at a Playboy-themed cocktail
party submitted photos of their dates
for a bunny contest. Hugh Hgner

announced the winner via p one
during the party.

(3969

A rented llama
escaped from
3 the ball during
“Carnival: A
night in Rio. ”

7

Security escorted a camel from
the premises after it angrily spit
on guests during “Magical Carpet
Ride.” ..

  
 

 

  
 

  
 
       

Facing the

Fancy Dress Date—Dash got you down.

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND Ll‘FE EDITOR

lt’s ofﬁcial: Fancy Dress is exactly 5 days, 19 hours, 45 minutes, and 8
seconds away (but who’s counting, anyway?). If you have an FD date already,
congratulations! Don’t have one yet and still want one? No worries - you’re
not alone. Meet Georgiana, a typical W&L girl. Let’s take a look at her week.

Stage 1: Denial {Monday}

 
 

 Dateless for FD

v.- "

Si:-; lonlrs ?éll'i.E rinthirig's happening ll'll5 weekend Especially "int. -:»n
Salli!-day night tenpe, s.til|::ari‘lthinli tit anytriin-g; V’?.if.ill';‘ll'lil'ii'.l>.:; '4,»

Stage 2:Anger {Tuesday}

 

Dateless for FD  _— ‘
WHY HAS NO DNE ASKED ME TC: FD’?lll i hate boys Officiatly
canceling my -dress urrser Take in-at, Rent rm-. Rui1'.«.«‘3-,i'l

igi i;.;:lg:;;it:_: up-,.::,; _ii;ln::-_; :- rial‘-i;-.i ii;e_-.

Stage 3: Bargaining {Wednesday}

  

 Dateless tor FD

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

With Homecoming Weekend,
Christmas Weekend, fraternity for-
mals, sorority formals, Lee Chapel
events, Fancy Dress, the occasional
weekend galaeit doesn’t come as
a surprise that every girl at W&L
has plenty of cocktail and black tie
dresses gathering dust in the back
of her closet. With this in mind,
the W&L Ladies Club is hosting a
dress drive, allowing W&L students
to make some much needed room
in their closets and become “Fairy
Glam Mothers” for the young girls
of Rockbridge County.

The brainchild of senior Nataki
Hemmings, Co-Chair of the Ladies’
Club, her inspiration for the dress
drive was culled from reading about
DonateMyDress.org, a national net-
work for local dress drives, in issues
of Seventeen Magazine. “I...always
admired the people, some younger
than me, that took the initiative to do
something like this for other girls in
the community,” she said.

Explained Hemmings: “Over

. tee 1S

ll -':li‘iy‘i'Iilﬂ ricirds Ll dale. Yd trivia lo gr: as lrreriris I I'll pay For my
cum ticket. Heizlit %'ll even thri:rw in dinnerl Any lai-;>:=r5't gsifrini; inzrr. an

February break I was ﬂipping
through another issue...and 1 men-
tioned to my mom that with a Fancy
Dress each year, all the formals that
sororities have, and the Mock Con
Gala every four years, W&L could
provide enough dresses to donate to
a graduating high school class!”
After this revelation, she did
some research and presented the idea
to the Student Coordinator of Rock-
bridge High School, Dean Tamara
Futrell, and Ladies’ Club members,
and Fairy Glam Mothers was born.
The dress drive is only the ﬁrst

' part of the Fairy Glam Mothers proj-

ect. The second part will be a “bou-
tique day” on March 30, where the
girls get to come choose their dress-
es. Stated Hemmings:

“The
Fairy
Glam
Mothers’
commit-

   
     
      

working

«Q7
C. ,.

ll

 
  

  
“‘  .:i’“ I 

Stae 4: pression {Thu}  

Dali!!!-5 tor FD

 

Just spent the night crying intnmy pillow hi:-i:l igiiess this is it.
tin an-r": wants me l‘ni |u!?.i going to die  nld rnairi .=«.*;isi‘ii‘«.ylié:rl :-“l':n_ii.=e

Stage 5: Acceptanee{Fiiday}

 

" Y iZ:2iLi:Ci

Dateless for,FD .1  »
Ullttilﬁlllly‘ gating in Fiji st;-iggi ’.'i!h<'J ii.-.=ei'-.i*ii.=i t:e»,s'i Gzil niy i1iess_ nails,
hair‘ rieaiﬁly _.il'3 gt}il"lr‘ie;'i l)l_‘. 33 l_ll3§_€i! -li,'i:.;s;;;i,: \:iiiis,;li:.ji'i:,lrijiiii_l'i~ti;irriir'igli;i

Sunday...tlie momingafter

Dateless for FD .

 

leurigs "ll’llJSl‘l'_t'

So you see, no matter what happens, everything will work out just ﬁne.
Who knows? You might just get a date sometime this week (you mean, there
are actually guys who wait and ask, like, three days before the dance?! that
really happens here?). As Georgiana would say, everything happens for a rea-

Had siinn a great time at l7l"Ji inns at awesnrrie nice, 
iiivriiiilik. arid eiitiugli Liwtrsdiiu: meiiii.iii-L-e llJ l:.ial ii iilelirrii: <3 =‘-'Efi’iW‘

son, and this is no exception. Happy 106th Fancy Dress, everyone!

Abracadabra! Be a fairy {glam}mother

Got cocktail dresses? W&L Ladies Club wants you to donate and make wishes come true

hard to make this day fun and excit-
ing, and realistic to a regular prom
shopping trip; We also have a few
rallies and gifts for the girls.”

All dresses are welcome, includ-
ing formal, bridesmaid, Fancy Dress,
or old prom dresses. Dresses must be
dry-cleaned before being donated.
Collection runs from March 15-29 in
the Commons Living Room.

Stated Hemmings: “I want Fairy
Glam Mothers to ﬂourish even after
my departure from W&L. In a so-
ciety where appearance takes such
precedence, ﬁnding a prom dress can
be one of the most stressful experi-
ences for any girl. A dress drive al-
lows young girls to have the same
experience of ﬁnding that perfect

  

 

3]

 

dress without limiting themselves by ’

location or ﬁnances.”

She added: “I want Fairy Glam
Mothers to be an experience that
these young girls can actually look
back years from now and appreciate,
and maybe donate one of their dress-
es to a dress drive for. other young
girls to beneﬁt from.”

As for those who are still on the
fence and need some extra incen-
tive to donate, take this advice from
the venerable Dean Futrell herself:
“You know the rule—once you get
photographed in it, you can’t wear it
again!”

   

  

  

I and chat with the man known on campus

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

  sports

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

  Baner: a father of Generals’ athletics

Wilson Stadium ’s equipment manager takes immense pride in his work and inspires W&L student-athletes

By Pat McCarron
STAFF WRITER

Tucked underneath the grandstand of
Wilson Field is the ofﬁce of Washington
and Lee’s current equipment manager
Thomas Bane. The window for his_ of-
ﬁce is always open for athletes to stop

simply as Baner.

Baner has held multiple positions of
authority in his more than 41 years at
W&L—from equipment manager at the
old stadium, to security ofﬁcer, and now
back to equipment manager at Wilson
Field. But these titles are not what Ba-
ner is most proud of. He is above all a
father ﬁgure to what he calls his family,
the thousands of students and faculty he
has met in his years at W&L.

Baner grew up in Lexington from his
humble beginnings as a farm boy. His
equipment-managing job is nothing
short of a dream come true for him.

“I grew up here as a farm boy. If you
would have told me then, ‘Baner, one
day you’re going to be the equipment
manager for W&L,’ I would have looked
at you like you were the craziest person
in the world,” Baner said.

He remembers coming to watch Gener-
als football as 2. kid, and has since been
attached to W&L athletics. While he is
not a coach, he remains an inspiration to
various teams on campus by delivering
pre-game speeches.

He particularly recalls his speeches
to the football team, who has won the
ODAC championship twice in the past
three seasons.

“I go in the locker room and Coach
Abell lets me get after those boys. That’s
my family. I preach to them that when
you put that W&L helmet on nobody
likes you. They hate us with a passion
and you know what I tell them‘? I don’t
like them either.” Baner said.

Since the women’s tennis team’s na-
tional championship, Baner'has a key
piece of inspiration that he brings into
locker rooms for his speeches.

Baner on the cover of his wife’s book, FamiIy& Honor

\  A‘

“What an honor it is to work with
‘a national championship tennis team.
Now I have something to take into the
other locker rooms to get the kids ﬁred
up: ‘Come on boys, the girls are na-
tional champions,” Baner said.
Although he says this kiddingly, he
genuinely loves to see W&L teams

‘ ii . win. Two of Baner’s most prized pos-

sessions are the football championship
rings the team presented him with to
thank him for his part in helping the
Generals win two ODAC champion-

 :. ships in the past three seasons.

But Baner does not wait until ath-

-«i.‘ ll letes commit to W&L to impress his
" inﬂuence upon them. One of the ﬁrst

people coaches introduce recruits to is
Baner himself, an honor he does not
take lightly.

Baner sees this as an opportunity to

 convince recruits that W&L is where

"' 1 they belong.

     

“I’ve had a bunch [of recruits] come

4, back this year, and their dads with
‘w them and say, ‘Baner, do you remem-
-~ ber me? I say ‘I remember the face.’

Then they tell me ‘because of you I’m
coming to W&L.’ What an honor that
I have this god-gifted inﬂuence on a
family,” Baner explained.

Although Baner acts as something
like a second coach to W&L athletes,

I he still takes the utmost pride in his
, duties as equipment manager. His of-

ﬁce is organized like no other~uni-
forms folded and hanging with care,
washers running constantly, every jer-
sey, bat, and helmet accounted for. He
cleans and organizes the locker rooms
to make sure he is doing all he can
so that his athletes are ready to go at

game time.

Baner’s only regret is that he cannot
manage the equipment for all teams on
campus. '.

“I’d like to be the equipment man for
all of the students. I think some of them
are missing a little something that I could
give them,” Baner said.

Baner’s life at W&L is captured in a
book entitled “Family and Honor," a
book written by his wife Doris. Within
the pages of this book are the memories
of the many lives Baner has touched over
the years.

After a 1ifetime’s worth of memories
Baner has had at W&L—enough to ﬁll
a bookehe is not willing to call it quits
just yet.

“I know for a fact that I’m staying for
three more years. But I might stay four,
may stay ﬁve. I’m not through yet. I
wish I was a young man, because I know
there’s some high school kids that are
going to come here, and I won’t be here,”
said Baner.

It is notable that Baner’s only regret is

that he wants to continue to expand the '

family he loves so much. With a tear
in his eye, Baner describes his pride for
his school as “the old W&L in me,” and
seeks to interact with as many students
and athletes as he can.

But for now, Baner sits in his ofﬁce over
40 years since he ﬁrst began working at

W&L still the same person, unchanged .

from all of his honors, accolades, and
contributions to the University.

“All the praise that the kids give me
hasn’t changed me one bit. I’m still the
same Baner that came here over 40 "years
ago,” Baner said.

Lax loses close game

W&L falls to Roanoke in double-overtime, but wins big later in the week

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The women’s lacrosse team split their
ODAC match-ups this week when they
suffered a loss in double overtime at
Roanoke on Wednesday, and soundly
defeated Virginia Wesleyan at home on
Saturday.

The loss to Roanoke was another close
one for the women’s lacrosse team who

_ ended the week with a 3-5 (3-1 ODAC)
record overall.

overtime tied up at 12 but were unable to
score in either overtime period, losing in
the last minute of a sudden death situa-

     

r:.‘%'e-2;.» ;
o£J"il"id‘.'-
'.,i‘a"¢I‘i



The Generals went into"

ta‘

game, scoring three quick goals, W&L
was able to come back and keep it close
through regulation. The Generals went
6-6 on clears, but missed several goal
chances by going only 4-13 on free posi-
tion shots. Junior Meade Brewster con-
tinued her dominance on the ﬁeld with
‘three goals and two assists. First-year
Margaret Pascale also netted three goals
for the Generals.

W&L ended the week on a high note
with a win over Virginia Wesleyan at
home on Saturday. Junior Meredith Lavin
started the game off with a free position

      

 _ . . V‘ p .\l.',,,,-

   
 

    
  

   

W&L’s victory qt;/or Virginia Wesleyan 

goaljust over ﬁve minutes into the game.
Virginia Wesleyan was able to keep the
game close through the ﬁrst hall‘, but they
were unable to hold off the Generals in
the second half when W&L scored eight
goals to the Marlins’ two. Junior Marga-
ret Klein had four goals for the Generals,
andjunior Katie Hagen added three.

The Generals return to the ﬁeld on Sat-
urday when they travel to No. 13 Catholic
for an 11:30 a.m. match-up.

 LI
II

 

    

vi ’
K
'5!‘

ii-r, ‘

'...
.. ,, .a
J ‘ "" 7'y

and travel seasons.

W&L graduates.

Job Opening
Undergraduate
Admissions
Counselor

The Washington and Lee Ofﬁce of Undergraduate
Admissions announces an opening for Admissions
Counselor. Responsibilities include managing
a recruitment territory and travel schedule,
conducting group information sessions and
interviews, and evaluating admission applications.
Other duties will be assigned based on the selected
candidate’s background and skills. Evening and
weekend work is expected during the academic
year, especially during peak application reading

A Bachelor’s degree, a valid driver’s license, and the
willingnessto commit to the position for a minimum
of two years are required. Strong communication
and writing skills and demonstrated organizational
abilities are expected. The successful candidate
will be both willing and able to work as part of a
successful admissions team, yet will be capable of
creative self-direction’. Preference will be given to

Interested candidates should apply for the position
through W&L’s Human Resources website (http://
go.wlu.edu/j-obs) no later than noon on March
27, 2013. A W&L Employment Application, a
cover letter, résumé,‘and the names and contact
information of three references are required. EOE.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

9 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

 

 

ESS

We ’ve helped you with the opening bracket, now ﬁll in the rest!

L

. 13
11 MTSU/STM FT"
3
14
7 CREIGH
10
2 DUKE
15 ALBANY
1 G N2
15

C
8 PITT

9 WI H T
5
12 MIS

 

4 KAN sr
13
5 ARIZ .
u_%l————

, 3 N MEX

. 14 HARV
7 N DAME

10

2 OHI sr
15 IONA

 

5' of interestingfstory.._lines,for'fanV V.
‘rye or‘

:tree agencyg period and thereis ho lack *
I EV“ — .
...with i1>1‘ ‘fr df-btf ‘

make their 'pr‘edictions"eon-

_e.ca-ti o Jyv speculate how things

regular se‘as_‘on‘.1 . ' ‘

I '.1lIl?turri out; until _;Sep_tern'ber a‘nd—the '-

1 live the roughil1fe.of a Dolphins fan; .—

it’s_ never-ending. torture, but "this is the

I ' first year the Fins -have -really given‘ me

hope for the upcoming season. Despite
claims by the Miami front-ofﬁce that
the free agency wasn’t going to ‘be im-

portant for the Dolphins this year, they

have dropped majormoney on some ‘big
names._ Receiving corps pick-ups Mike

7-- PET‘.

‘Wallace,’ Dustin Keller,‘ and '1 Brandon

Gibson A akesense and should provide
earjquarterback Ryan Tannehill

“s_iv'e weapons that
My . ‘The choice to drop
inebaclwrs 5'» not Miami’s

’_.;Philip Wh.eelerand Dan-

. ' , ,' is. questionable‘ but will no
oub trengthe the_already formidable

_Do1ph1n§1 -id‘ fense_.' ut ‘the Dolphins

‘J:  money: to spend, so why’ not?
‘-The losses of Jake Long?‘ and Reggie

Bush ’we‘re5‘really"ine\4ita’qle and while

they weret-wo'of thebiggest names on
' the ‘team ‘last. year,fthey should be re-

placeable. Altogether the’ Dolphins are a
more talented team today than they were

1 KANSAS
N
‘ MI
1 ST
3
14
7 SDSU
:11
2
: 
.1
16
8
9 T
L
I 12
SYR

g BUTLER
1

3 MAR
14 DAVID

a week or so ago," and we should (or at '
least I hope. to) see some major improve-
ment on both sides of the ball next sea- ..

. son. Not to mention the ﬁve draft picks:-' 7

they have in the ﬁr‘st‘l-three‘ro"u ds ‘ofvthe.;,

draft, but that’s forApriI. ‘  
There are some other; ajor pick-up

that -really have impressed me so .far‘i

the free agency »p“eritod>.- l.think.tl1at the 

Steven Jackson ac_l tion “in “-Atlanta. is .'

1 solid and shouldimpro e"their—toffensel "

if he can play at the high‘ leveI.{.of abil-
ity that he has. The addition of Percy '

' Harvin in Seattle should be a success‘-‘
ful one as well. ‘Heshould fit into the 1 .

Seahawks’ young; athletic teain and bar-

7 ILL

—-—-—-tar:
2 MIAMI
15 PACIF

be a greatitarget for ‘Russell Wilson.

‘And while I understated the. loss of Reg-

gie Bush‘ forll)/Iiami, I?'t_ ink‘ that he’s a
greatfadditiori to a Detroit offense that

-‘does _very'li'tt1e besides‘ passing the ball
‘ to Calvin Johnson. ' I I

It’s impossibleto say who the win-
ners_in'_.t_he' free agency are -now, but I
hai/ehigh hopes for. a lot of teams. and

' their pick-ups. It will only make for a

more ‘interesting ‘season come Septem-

, ber whenwe start to learnwhether these

playersjare worth the money that teams

I haveshelled out for them.

ring any injury‘(o migraine) he should .1. ‘

ree agency this year fullof big I

There have been several car|_v losers
in free agency this NFL offscason. The
team that has received the most criti-
cism for their choices is the Baltimore
Ravens. The Ravens. co1ni11g off a Su-
per Bowl victor; igncd quarterback
Joe Flacco to a mas. ivc deal. but l1ad to
sacriﬁce other key pieces in the process.
So far this olfscason. the Ravens have
let go of/\nquan Boldin. Paul Kruger.
and Dannell lillcrbc, all ol‘ wl1on1 con-
tributed heavily to the Ravens‘ s ‘
While Boldin appeared to be ovcrp
l1c expressed a desire to stay with the
organization, and was ignored. Kruger
and lillerbe are very valuable players on
the defensive side because oftheir youth
and ability. The Ravens also lost Ray
Lewis to retirement and could see [id
Rccd leave the team as well. The team
l1as failed to retain both their young
prospects as well as older cornerstones
like Reed and Boldin.

Coming into this ol‘l‘scason. the Steel-
ers were in a very similar position to
the Ravens. Both teams are perennial
contenders w 1o are currently strapvd
for cash. The Stcelers cut manv imp ‘
tam pieces. such as ‘C0l1tlill '_
Kccnan Lewis and Ryan Mund)’. and of-
fensive stars Mike Wallace and Rasliard
Mcndcnhall. The Stcclers also released
former dclcnsi c force James Ilarrison,
without bringing in any exciting new tal-
cm.

The Jets also lost out in this _vcar”s lrce
agency. The Jets cut important faces on
defense such as Eric Smith. Calvin Pace.
Sione Pouha, and Bart Scott. Thcsc
players contributed migh1il_v to the Jets‘
back-to-back Al-‘C title game runs. The
Jets also face a great deal ol‘unccrtaint_v
surrounding Darcllc Rcvis. their best
player and biggest question mark. I low-
cvcr. the bigg 1 loss ol‘ all may have
been tight end Dustin Kcllcr. who signed

an all-loo alTordablc contract with Mi-
ami. Keller has been Mark Sanchcfs
onl_\ consistent salcty valve, and without
him. Sanchez (or whoever becomes QB
in New York). will struggle even n1ore.

/\ddilionall_v the Rams struggled this
oil’-season. With a developing quarter'-
back like Sam Braclforcl. it is especially
important to surround him with weap-
ons. So far. the Rams have let go of
their two best receivers. l)annv Amen-
dola and Brandon Gibson. They also
lost their best ol‘l’cnsivc player ol‘ the
past livc years, Steven Jackson. who l1as
never given up on the team and is truly
a \\0l'I\'l1()l‘SC. The Rams have ol‘l'crcd a
contract to left tackle Jake Long ol‘ the
Mizm1i l)olphins. and ii‘ l1c accepts. the
Rams will be i11 much better shape, es-
pecially with two lirst round draft picks.
llowcvcr, ifthc Rams fail to sign Long,
they will be one ol’ the ycar‘s biggest
losers.

By Kyle Jaeger
STAFF WRITER

Finall_v. the most active players in
free agency, the Miami l)olphi s. have
made some l1ugc n1ovcs. While these
deals might work out in the short run. I
do not see them as long run fixes. The
Dolphins had n1onc_v available. and
went on a spcnding'sprcc. bringing in
Mike Wallace at wide receiver. and two
lincbackcrs -- Dannell lillcrbe and Phil-
lip Whclccr -— who don‘t really lit their
needs. These players came from con-
tenders who traditionally lock up their
important players. and w crc unwilling to
match these contracts. This might s g-
gcst something about Wallace and l-Illcr-
bc. Overall. the Miami Dolphins could
emerge as lrcc agcncy‘s big winners.
or they could become the next “l)rcan1
Team" Philadclpliia Eagles —- especially
if they fail to retain cornerstone player‘
Jake Long - getting little value out ol‘
their acquisitions.

  

 

 

 

10 0 THE RlNG-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18,2013

 

 

   

      
 

 

‘“““’ """;*;°“ Baseball second in ODAC .

The number of games that the Miami Heat have won in a

 

row. This streak ties the second-longest win streak in NBA
history set by the 2007-2008 Houston Rockets. The record
is 33 games in a row set by the Los Angeles Lakers during

the 1971-1972 season.

13

The total number of Washington and Lee student-athletes
inducted into the Phi Beta Kappa Honor Society on Thurs-

day.

soapbox

"You have to be good and be lucky to beat a
great team. We're a little bit of both.”

-tlnlvsnllyofMarylandooaoh MarkTur¢sonal'Isrths
MarylandTsrpsdslsatsdthsu1sn-ssoondranlcsd DuloBlus
Dsvlls lnthsAccTournamsnt. Marylandwonaa-74for1hsIr
sscondvlo'lnryaalnstDulothlsssason. Marylandfellln
thstlllournsmlrisl:UNc,fromcBSSPORTS.oom

"This is one of those things I can’t come
back too early. We saw last season when
I tried to play too early [with a calf injury]
what happened. lfl try to play too early
from this we could miss the whole season,
and we don’t want that.”

-NswYorkYbnksss' first baseman MarkTslxslra about his
mostrsosntlnlury. He hurt hlswrlstwhlle hltllngofralss
durlngpraollesforthsworld Baseball classic. Hsadmlttsd
lb rsportsrsthaths hasnoldsa howlongthe lnlurywllltaka
tohsal,from ESPN.com

 

ATHLETE 0 THE WEEK

‘ ‘ to sixth-ranked Washin

,  ,i 
Sophomore track and ﬁeld athlete Janey
Fugate broke the school record in the 400
hurdles this weekend at the Dr. Jack M.
Tom's Invite. Her time, 62.92, broke her old
school record of 63.59 and is currently the

fastest time in the country in the event.

 

ondeck

BasebaH

Monday

W&L sweeps a double-header against Guilford to improve to 4-2 in the ODAC

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

fl’ Halfxi/ay-ithrough its season,G_enerals’ base-

~cof‘1 stands at 4E-2.” . v .
Th_e‘Generals most recently outhit the Guil-

nine of which were homerun_s, from the Quak-

ers." ,. ‘ -

. The Generals start'ed’their season in much
the same way that they outplayed the Quak-
V.ers’—-with big leads. W&L opened its season
with a 12-Odefeat of Rochester (Micht). They
carried another “W”, in thesecond game. _
E Senior Ian Shawﬂandsophomore Cory Smith
pitched to hold Rochester’ at bay. They served
many strikes and ‘allowed for absolutely no
runs; Shaw, junior Nate Plein, and seniorpEric
Wilsotsky currently hold the best pitching re-
cords on the team. ’ v

0 Soon aﬁer sweeping Rochester, the Generals ‘ A ‘ .
continued to secure winswith big, early leads '

against New Jersey City, Emory, and Alver-
nia. In these games, the Generals’ three big-
gest hitters, seniors Will Salley and Jonathan
Stutts and junior Keegan Dolan, all started
their commendable hitting streaks. ,
The week before the Generals’ most re-
centlvictories this weekend, W&L struggled
against Randolph-Macon, Stevenson, and
Southern Virginia, of which only Randolph-

.Macon<is_an ODAC contender. The Generals .. '

have since overcomethese losses with great
wins to propel them forward through the re-

;- mainder of the season. . x
The Generals will play at home against Earl-

ham on Tuesday at 3 p.m. and again at home
against Bridgewater on Wednesday at 4 p.m.

p.baIl”has’.brought its recent los_ing‘ streak around [ -
with a.9‘:-8Vl;record.p In the OId‘Dominion Ath— '
letic Conference, Washington and Lee’s Are-.

ford Quakers in a doubleheader lastsaturday. H
‘The-men started out strong and held their lead-
throughout the day. In all,-W&L took 20 runs, _

 
 

  
  

 
 
 
 
    
 
      
    

 

 A

vs Earlham 3 pm

Lax starts 6-1 1‘

Men is lacrosse is ranked ninth in the nation after averjy strong start to their season

By Victoria Coates
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team is having one of their strongest seasons
in years, starting off with ﬁve wins and just
one loss since being picked second in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference preseason poll.

The Generals, currently ranked ninth in
the NCAA, began their season with a strong
nineteen-point win against Ferrum University.
Since then, the team has beaten top-ranked
Salisbury, 7-6 in two overtimes, .and ended
their three-game losing streak to Franklin &
Marshall. They have suffered one away loss
ton Colle e.

Tuesday Wednesday

 

“We have played tough and gritty lacrosse
having come from behind to win in most of
our games this season,” Head Coach Gene
McCabe said. The focus ofthis season is team
chemistry, which -will be a critical component
to the Generals’ success this season.

“Seniors are doing a great job leading this
team,” added McCabe. Senior Joe LaSala
is playing very well after back-to-back ACL
surgeries, having caused seven turnovers in
the Franklin & Marshall win. Captains Mac
Means and Cooper Brown have had impres-
sive starts to the seaso stablishin

Thursday

 

vs Roanoke 12 and 3

ship and demonstrating their abilities on the
ﬁeld. Additionally, sophomore goalie Warren
Berenis has had a fantastic season, inspiring
conﬁdence among his teammates. Berenis has
played a major factor in the team‘s success so
far this season. _

The Generals will host their next three
games against Mary Washington, Guilford,
and Lynchburg. The team is already anticipat-
ing the pivotal game against Lynchburg, who
is not only in the ODAC conference but is also
currently ranked eighth in the country.

    

Saturday Sunday

Men’s Golf

vs Bridgewater 4 pm

at Marine Corps Intercollegiate Golf Tournament

Women’s Golf

at Randolph-Macon invitational

Men’s Lacrosse

vs Mary Washington 7 pm

vs Guilford 3 pm

Women’s Lacrosse

lat Catholic 11:30 am

Men’s Swimming

Division III National Championship

s in Shenandoah, Texas

Men’s Tennis

vs Bridgewater 4‘ pm

vs Shenandoah 10 am

Women’s Tennis

vs Bridgewater 4 pm

at Emory 10 am

at Em0TY 9 am at Emory 9 am

Track and Field

W&L Track Carnival

 

 

 
  

013

- WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVl|,NUMBER18

    

thought we were

the Generals...
And yet our Rugby Club
is named the Screaming
Minks. Wondering why?

    

N690“
A ‘Z

opinions | 5
Are we too perfect?

We all know that we go to
a top caliber school. Is it
starting to affect our per-

sonal lives?

Friend us on
Facebook!

  

/6

“  @ringtumphi

   

"..”* "ir’

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

at; ”I<éI>“‘

News...2
Opinions...5
Arts & I.ife...6
Sports...9

,,>;AA_t,, Wednesday
7. Partlysunny

 26°-44°

      

Thursday
Partly Sunny

25°-46°

Friday
Partly Sunny

32°-51°

Saturday
Partly Sunny

33°-51°
Sunday
Cloudy & Rainy

38o_ 530
Monday
Sunny

   

  
   

    
  

  
 

  

  

 39°-62°- -

Taking ethics to  
the next level

Philosophy Professor Angela Smith was named Director of the Mudd
Center for Ethics thanks to Roger Mudds $4 million donation.

By Neil Haggerty
N E ws E D I TO R

Washington and Lee University is
the logical place for the study of ethics,
says award-winning journalist Roger
Mudd.

Mudd, a 1950 graduate of W&L,
donated $4 million for an ethics center
on campus to be directed by Philosophy
Professor Angela Smith.

Smith says that this center, which
will be housed in the Matting'ly House,
is an opportunity to integrate ethics
across the curriculum. She cites the
many pre-professional programs at
W&L as a reason for ethical discussion
across the board. »

Many of the academic departments
at W&L currently offer applied ethics
courses, but there is a discrepancy in
resources applied to different depart-
ments.

Ethics is a cornerstone of the jour-
nalism and mass communications de-
partment, according to for Knight Pro-
fessor of Ethics Edward Wasserman.
The department conducts an ethics in-
stitute in the fall and winter terms every
school year.

The science department, on the other
hand, has not offered an applied ethics
course in over a year and a half, accord-
ing to Professor Lisa Alty.

Izzy Brassﬁeld, a senior Biology
and Philosophy double major, says it is
important for people in medicine to be
trained in ethics with the changes hap-
pening in healthcare.

Brassﬁeld said this is her driving
motivation to continue her studies in
a Bioethics graduate program at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.

All Business Administration majors
are currently required to take a course
in either Business Law or Business Eth-
ics, but Professor Sandy Reiter says she
thinks that all majors should be required
to take both courses.

Reiter says she sees newspaper sto-
ries about people in business failing in
some ethical capacity every day. She
said people in Business should be bet-
ter trained to deal with these dilemmas.

Reiter said she hopes that the Mudd
Center for Ethics will provide a richer
environment at W&L focus on ethics to
raise awareness.

Some ideas for raising awareness
for ethics in the Mudd Center include
professional guest speakers across all
academic departments, discussion pro-

Roger Mudd ’50 is sparking ethical conversatis across cam-

‘Ax .

pus. He is an award winning broadcast journalist.

grams and even a ﬁrst-year seminar,
said Professor Smith.

She said it would be ideal for all
W&L students to take a course in ethics
before graduating.

Mudd cites some of the ethical di-

lemmas he has faced in his career as a’

reason to donate money for an ethics
center.

Mudd said the self-promotion that
occurs in television brings many of the
ethical dilemmas in society to light. He
said the emphasis on being the ﬁrst to
report a story often made accuracy take
a back seat.

Mudd said that honor system is one
reason for W&L students to be inter-
ested in studying ethics. He said the
system made life as a student more
worthwhile.

But even the honor system raises
ethical questions.

Mudd was the senior representative

on the Executive Committee when he
attended W&L and remembers a major
ethical dilemma when it came to en-
forcing the system.

He remembers a case where a stu-
dent was reported to the Executive
Committee in an almost helpless situ-
ation. The student was found guilty of
an honor violation in a ﬁve to four vote.

“That case always bothered me,”
said Mudd.

Smith said the challenge in getting
the Mudd Center off the ground is to get
both students and faculty interested in
ethics. She said her next step in the pro-
cess is to brainstorm with faculty and
students on ways to bring the center to
life.

Mudd says he hopes the center will
help students see that an ethical life is
indeed a rich life worth living.

“It frees you from all the little wor-
ries,” said Mudd.

..

Senior Wayde Marsh competes in the 100 meter backstroke at the NCAA Division III Swimming
and Diving Championships. He tied for 27th overall with a time of 51.19.
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

 

 

 

W&L reps
named

The student bodyelected
EC and SJC oﬁicersoon
Sakai this weekend

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

The student body elected a new Executive
Committee President, Vice President, and Sec-
retary as well as the Student Judicial Council
Chairman and the unopposed secretary posi-
tion.

The winners are as follows: EC President
- Nathan Kelly (72 percent of the vote), EC
Vice President - Daniel Raubolt (59 percent),
EC Secretary — Anna Russell Thornton (62
percent), SJ C Chairman — David Robinson (64
percent) and SC] Secretary ~ David Thomas
(100 percent).

Nathan Kelly, former representative and
secretary on the EC, started upperclassmen
brunches, created an EC twitter, worked with
ITS to improve wireless lntemet on Macs and
worked with mental health groups to address
concerns on campus.

Kelly said his experience on the Executive
Committee makes him qualiﬁed for the job as
president because he has been involved in nu-
merous honor hearings. He said that he knows
what goes into the planning and administration
of these hearings and that “it is important to
understand the procedure front and back and
to understand the context in which you are
working.”

During the candidate’s speeches to the stu-
dent body on Thursday, Kelly discussed his
plans for the EC if he was elected president.
He said he would like to see more class-specif-
ic activities, such as barbeques up at the ruins.

Currently, many Greek students do not
have weekend dining options. Kelly said he
would like to expand upperclassmen brunches
to improve this situation.

An additional plan for the following year is
to “expand our tailgating in order to increase
attendance at athletic events throughout the
year.”

Newly elected EC Vice President Daniel
Raubolt has “spent the last year working with
the EC to uphold the Honor system.”

Raubolt said he stresses the idea of honor
within the EC and throughout the campus as a
whole. He said that as a member of the Execu-
tive Committee he has had the “opportunity
to see the Honor System in action, and truly
understand its impact on our community of
trust.”

Raubolt said he would like to “help to en-
sure that students have more signiﬁcant sway
on the direction of our university and the deci-
sions of the administration.”

Newly elected EC Secretary Anna Russell
Thornton said she wants to build on this year’s
progress. She said she has worked on “compil-
ing a history of the Honor System” and “ex-
ploring additional housing and dining options
on campus.”

Thornton said she plans to start an EC
Facebook where students can comment and
have discussion on Facebook about current
school issues.

The new Student Judicial Council Chair-
man will be David Robinson. During his time
on the SJ C, Robinson “developed an initiative
to revise and update and modify the policies
and procedures in order to make these more
cohesive and transparent to the student body.”
He did this working directly with the General
Council as well as the Dean’s and the Student
Affair’s oﬁice to get this going and to get the
ball rolling.

While as the chairman of the SJC, Robin-
son said he hopes to continue these efforts and
to continue to work with the members of the
different organizations in order to make the
SJC as transparent as possible,

David Thomas, the new SJ C secretary, ran
unopposed in the race and did not have a plat-
form. He said he will “look forward to serv-
ing as the SJ C Secretary this upcoming school
year.”

  

UNlVEF.SlTY
llrll-‘.Sllll‘lG'l'f;l\l & LEF. lllll

  

. X

tirénsin

 

 

LE}(ll~i{‘;TON, VA 24459

APR 0 ’l 2013

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

 

I

Did you hav say?

Constitutional Review Committee creates amendments to give students a bigger

voice.

By Krysta Huber
STAFF wmrea

After collecting more than 100 signatures
in support of a disputed amendment for the
Student Body Constitution, the Constitutional
Review Committee added an amendment to the
ballot one day before the Executive Committee
released the proposed Constitution to the stu-
dent body.

Members of the Constitutional Review

“This change allows for some institutional
memory as well,” Hildabrand said. “Since
none ofthe current members ofthe CRC was at
W&L for the last review, we have no idea what
happened, and no record of the past CRC’s
work remains.”

Toscano agreed with Hildabrand. He said
that enabling students to serve on the Consti-

“Since [the Executive Committee s] decision was moving in the

opposite direction from our original amendment, we decided to

collect signatures to bring our original amendment before the

student bodyfor a vote. ”

CLARK HILDABRAND ‘13, Constitutional Review Committee member

Committee circulated a petition in support of
the Constitutional Review Committee meeting
every three years to review the current docu-
ment. The current Constitution states that the
Committee will meet every four years.

The Committee originally proposed the
amendment to the Executive Committee with-
out the petition. But they decided to circulate
the petition after the Executive Committee re-
sponded with a proposal to review the Constitu-
tion every six years.

“Since [the Executive Committee’s] deci-
sion was moving in the opposite direction from
our original amendment, we decided to collect
signatures to bring our original amendment
before the student body for a vote,” said Con-
stitutional Review Committee Member Clark
Hildabrand ‘ 13.

Hildabrand and other Committee members
including Emily Zankman ‘I3 and Paqui To-
scano ‘ 16, collected 101 signatures within two
days. Hildabrand said that the Committee had a
small window to obtain the signatures because
the Executive Committee voted in favor of a
review every six years last Monday, one day
before the Constitution was scheduled to be re-
leased to the student body.

Hildabrand said that the Committee felt the
time period should be changed to three years
to guarantee that every student, including law
students, could contribute to the Constitution
in some way. Because law students are only
enrolled for three years, the current four-year
review plan prohibits them from serving on the
Constitutional Review Committee.

In addition, the six-year review plan pro-
posed by the Executive Committee would mean
that some Washington and Lee classes would
never be able to serve on the Committee.

tutional Review Committee more than once
would help the Committee make more effective
changes.

“[Retuming Committee members] would
have the knowledge to pick up where the last
CRC stopped so that the transition process
could be made as easy as possible and the wheel
would not have to be completely re-invented,”
Toscano said.

The Committee also favored a review every
three years because they felt it was logical to
have the Constitutional review coincide with
the review of the White Book, which also hap-
pens every three years. The Executive Com-
mittee agreed that it made sense to review
White Book procedures and the Constitution
in the same year, but felt that three years was
excessive.

Executive Committee President Steele Bur-
row said that because the review of White Book
procedures occurs every three years, the only
two options were to have the Constitution re-
viewed every three or every six years.

“Repetitive meetings suggest a mandate to
change something in the Constitution, regard-
less of whether or not it needs changing,” Bur-
row said. “Through the preexisting amendment
process, the Constitution allows for changes to
be made at any time without this Committee.”

Burrow added that, over the course of six
years, the student body will experience more
signiﬁcant changes.

“[Reviewing the Constitution every six
years] would result in a more substantial re-
view,” Burrow said.

Executive Committee First-Year Represen-
tative Anna Russell Thornton added that mak-
ing changes to the White Book and the Consti-
tution separately is a time consuming process.

She said that making changes to both in the
same year would be very difﬁcult.

“The idea of operating in multiples of three
makes sense to ensure that no Executive Com-
mittee will have to deal with the White Book
review and CRC meeting in the same year,”
Thornton said.

Hildabrand acknowledged that reviewing
both the White Book and the Constitution was
a demanding workload for the Executive Com-
mittee.

“We understand that serving on the Execu-
tive Committee takes a great deal of time, and
I greatly respect each EC member’s dedication
and diligence.”

To avoid this problem, Hildabrand said that
the petition calls for the Constitutional Review
Committee to meet the year alter the White
Book is reviewed.

“That way [the Committees] can build off of
each other without taking too much of the EC’s
time,” Hildabrand said.

Thornton also said that she did not think the
Constitutional Review Committee should wor-
ry about institutional memory.

“The excellent notes and records this Con-
stitutional Review Committee has kept this
year will serve as institutional memory them-
selves,” Thornton said. “And every three years
seems like too often for a document that should
not be so malleable.”

The remaining amendments to the Constitu-
tion range from grammatical changes to policy
changes. One of the amendments that the Ex-
ecutive Committee and Constitutional Review
Committee feel is an important isithe student
rights section. ’

“I think [the student rights section] is a nec-
essary addition to highlight a theme of the Con-
stitution: that the ultimate power in our student-
run government lies in the hands of the student
body,” Zankman said. M

Thornton said that the rights in the section
were preexisting but listed in other areas of the
Constitution.

“The rights listed in this section are not new,
but instead reﬂect those rights that students al-
ready have at W&L,” Thornton said. “Most
were detailed in other places in the Constitu-
tion and/or White Book and are now compiled
for clarity.”

Students have the opportunity to vote for the
revised Constitution through Sakai or at voting
booths in the Commons and the Law School.
In order for the Constitution to pass, at least
half of the student body — both undergraduate
and law students — must vote. Voting ends on
March 28.

W JobOpening      A  
Undergraduate Admissions Counselor .  

The Washington and Lee Ofﬁce of Undergraduate Admissions’   
announces an opening for Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities '   
includemanaging a recruitment territory and travel schedule,’ I I
conducting group information sessions and interviews, and eva|:uatin'g _
admission applications. Other duties will be assigned based on the.’.i'» .  E
selected candidate's background and skills. Evening and weekend:  I
work is expected during the academic year, especially during peak  I 
application reading and travel seasons. W    '

A Bachelor's degree, a valid driver's license, and the wi|l..ing’nessAto.— _ .
commit to the position for a minimum of two years are requ‘ir_e'd; Strong  .-
communication and writing skills and demonstrated orjganization,a_;,l_i.: [ Q I
abilities are expected. The successful candidate will be both willing‘ and.. 7
able to work as part of a successful admissions team, yetiwill be ‘capable
of creative self-direction. Preference will be given to W&L graduates. .   

Interested candidates should apply for the position;th_rpugh. W&Lls- 
Human Resourcesiwebsite (http://go.wlu.edu/jobs) no later than noon ]

on March 27, 2013. A W&L Employment App|ication,a coverfletiteir,  ;
résumé, and the names and contact information of three references are

required. EOE.-

8
A I

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Trial of Guatemala
President Tuesday

The trial of General Efrain Rios Montt began on Tuesday.
The former President of Guatemala is being charged with geno-
cide for “tuming a blind eye” to the killing of 1800 native peo-
ple in the 1980s during the Guatemalan Civil,War. Tactics such
as rape, torture, and arson were all used against the Mayan Ixil
people. Although there is no evidence of a written order from
Rios Montt inspiring this slaughter, prosecutors hope that his
inaction will be enough for a sentence.

Religious tensions
cause Myanmar riots

Riots in Myanmar continue as tensions between Muslims
and Buddhists grow. At least ﬁve people are conﬁrmed dead
after a street riot on Wednesday involving around 200 people
in Meiktila. Three mosques were also destroyed. In response
to the situation, police set a curfew through the night in order to
control the town. This is the latest development in riots across
the country that have left 180 dead since June 2012.

Cyprus close to bailout
solution

Officials in Cyprus said on Friday that they may be close to
ﬁnding a solution to their bailout crisis. After Parliament ended
on Thursday with a request to have more time, debates over
how to handle the situation are ﬁnally coming to some common
ground. The leader of the Democratic Rally in Cyprus told re-
porters that an agreed-upon platfonn could be reached in a few
hours. This platform would fall within guidelines set by the EU.

Australian government
apologizes

A year after the original recommendation by a Senate Com-
mittee, the Australian government issued a national apology on
Thursday. Prime Minister Julia Gillard gave the historic apol-
ogy in front of Parliament to all of the unwed mothers forced to
give up their children for adoption from World War II until the
early ‘70s. Gillard allotted $5 million for services for affected
families, which will include eﬂ°orts to reunite separate families.

Bedouin tribe men
threaten tourists

Two tourists, an Israeli man and a Norwegian woman, driv-
ing towards a beach resort in Egypt on Friday had their car in-
tercepted. Six men from the Bedouin tribe in the area forced
them into their truck at gunpoint. These kidnappings, however,
do not appear to be part of a political tactic. Bedouin contacts
said they wanted to trade the hostages for imprisoned relatives.
Kidnappings such as this have recently been a common issue in
the Sinai Peninsula. 1

Prime Minister of
Lebanon resigns

Lebanon’s Prime Minister, Najib Mikati, resigned on Friday
after two years in oﬁice. His resignation follows a deadlock in
his cabinet over parliamentary election preparations. Mikati an-
nounced publicly that he hoped his decision to step down would
bring various political groups together as a uniﬁed government
that can lead Lebanon through their current state of uncertainty.

War suspect to appear
before International
Criminal Court

Bosco Ntaganda, a war crimes suspect, will make an appear-
ance before the International Criminal Court on Tuesday, March
26. They set the date after he turned himself into the American
Embassy in Rwanda. He is wanted by the ICC for seven charg-
es of war crimes and three charges of crimes against humanity.
These include rape, murder, and the use of child soldiers in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. Ntaganda is the ﬁrst sus-
pect to hand himself over to the Court.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

Student Body Constitution

The new Constitution as proposed by W&L’s Consitutional Review Committee. Don't forget to vote
’ on the changes in Commons by March 28th. I

PREAMBLE
This Constitution is the expression
of a self-governing Student Body and

‘is the foundation of its government by
providing the overarching framework

for its maintenance. Every student body
member shall adhere to these provisions and
applicable University policies.

It is the intent of the framers of this
Constitution to present an instrument devoid
of complexity, which shall represent a means
of settlement of all affairs that concern the
Student Body or any part thereof, and shall
be interpreted and administered by the
Executive Committee of the Student Body
to the advancement of the best interests of
Washington and Lee University students.

I. MEMBERSHIP

All regularly matriculated students
at Washington and Lee University, as
determined by the Registrar, shall be
members of the Student Body.

II. STUDENT RIGHTS

A. All members of the Student Body,
as deﬁned in Article I, shall be guaranteed
these explicit student rights:

1. The right to due process pursuant
to the guidelines and rules set forth by the
University, this Constitution, and the White
Book, if accused of misconduct that falls
under the jurisdiction of the Student-Faculty
Hearing Board, Student Judicial Council, or
Executive Committee.

2. The right to at least one honor
advocate if accused of misconduct that falls
under thejurisdiction of the Student-Faculty
Hearing Board, Student Judicial Council, or
Executive Committee.

3. The right to appeal any legislative
action of the Executive Committee or any
guilty verdict from an Executive Committee
honor hearing to the Student ‘Body and
to appeal a Student Judicial Council or
Student-Faculty Hearing Board decision to
the University Board ofAppeals.

4. The right to vote in Student Body
elections and all matters voted on by the
Student Body, even if studying abroad.

5. The right to appear before student
governing bodies with any matter of interest
or concern.

III. STRUCTURE OF
GOVERNANCE

A. Student Body government
includes both the Legislative Branch,
comprised of the Executive Committee,
and the Judicial Branch, containing the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board,the Student
Judicial Council, the Executive Committee,
the University Board of Appeals, and other
conduct review bodies established by the
Executive Committee or the University.

B. The officers of the Student Body
shall be a President, a Vice~President, and
a Secretary to be chosen by and from the
members of the Student Body.

IV. DUTIES OF OFFICERS

A. The President

1. Shall preside at all meetings of
the Student Body and of the Executive
Committee;

2. Shall call a meeting of the Student
Body or Executive Committee when
necessary, or upon request of two-thirds
of the Executive Committee then in office,
or upon petition in writing signed by one
hundred members of the Student Body;

3. Shall appoint all special
committees and oversee their progress,
subject to the approval of a majority of the
members of the Executive Committee;

4. Shall report directly to the Board
of Trustees regarding the state of the Honor
System and other issues concerning the
Student Body;

5. Shall have the power, subject to
the approval of two-thirds of the members
of the Executive Committee, to do anything
necessary to promote the interests of the
Student Body; and

6. Shall perform all additional duties
prescribed by The Honor System White
Book.

B. The Vice-President

1. Shall fulfill the duties of the
President in the absence of the latter, or in
case of illness, death, or withdrawal from
the University;

2. Shall manage disbursement of the
Student Body funds;

3. Shall oversee the-» official
recognition of student organizations, subject
to the approval of a majority of the members
of the Executive Committee;

4. Shall monitor the expenditures and
acts of officially recognized organizations;
and

5. Shall perform all additional duties
prescribed by The Honor System White
Book.

C. The Secretary

1. Shall keep an accurate record
of the proceedings of the meetings of the
Student Body and Executive Committee,
to include general reasons for entering into
Executive Session, and shall publicly post
these minutes upon completion of the next
business meeting.

2. Shall communicate with the
Student Body ofﬁcers to create a tentative
agenda for Executive Committee meetings,
and shall publicly post this agenda at least
24 hours before each meeting.

3. Shall take charge of all available
records, documents, and other papers of the
Student Body;

4. Shall take charge of all clerical
duties to be performed for the Student Body
or the Executive Committee;

5. Shall post, at a minimum on the
EC website, any notices called for by the
Constitution as well as any other that the
Executive Committee may advise; and

6. Shall perform all additional duties
prescribed by The Honor System White
Book.

D. Succession of Officers

1. In the event that the President of
the Student Body leaves during the year,
the Vice-President shall take his place and
the Secretary shall move to ﬁll the Vice-
President’s spot. The Executive Committee
will vote on one member of the Committee
to become the Secretary. Two-thirds of all
members of the Executive Committee must
approve this appointment.

2. The order of succession speciﬁed
above shall apply for the position of Vice-
President and Secretary of the Student Body.

3. In order to ﬁll the vacated spot on
the Executive Committee, a class election
will be held for that member’s class that has
been voted on to move to an officer spot.

V. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

A. The name ofthis committee shall
be: “THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE STUDENTBODYOF WASHINGTON
AND'LEE UNIVERSITY.”

B. The Committee shall be composed
ofthe following members:

- President of the Student Body

- Vice-President of the Student
Body

- Secretary of the Student Body

- One Representative from the 3rd
Year Law Class

- One Representative from the 2nd
Year Law Class

- One Representative from the lst
Year Law Class

- Two Representatives from the
undergraduate Senior Class

- Two Representatives from the
undergraduate Junior Class

- Two Representatives from the
undergraduate Sophomore‘ Class

- One Representative from the
undergraduate First-Year Class

C. Any members of the Student Body
may seek these offices through student
elections, except those studying abroad
during any academic term coinciding
with the tenure of the position offered for
election. Students of the Legal Law Master
(LLM) Program may seek office through
the 1st Year Law Class.

D. Seven membersof the Committee
who possess votes shall constitute quorum
for non-honor matters. Ten voting members
shall constitute a quorum for all honor
matters. '

E. The President shall try to preside
in accordance with Roberts Rules of Order
unless the Committee votes by two-thirds
majority to observe another procedure.

VI. THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

A. The Executive Committee shall
have primary legislative power in all matters
pertaining to the Student Body. It shall act
as the representative of the Student Body in
any situation in which such representation
is needed.

B. It shall establish a Voting
Regulations Board to superintend Student
Body elections according to Article IX,
Section E.

C. It shall pass upon all resignations
and may require the resignation of any
unsatisfactory officer upon two-thirds vote
of members of the Executive Committee.

D. It shall have the power to fill
vacancies occurring on the Executive
Committee, Student Judicial Council, and
all other Executive Committee appointed
positions.

E. It shall remove any of its members
for continual non-attendance, as deﬁned by
three unexcused absences from meetings per

term in ofﬁce, and see to the installation of '

a successor as provided for in Article IV,
Section D.

F. The President shall temporarily
appoint members of the Student Body to
help meet any quorum requirements.

G. It shall take charge of the
installation of new Executive Committee
oﬂicers and members.

H. It shall allow any student who
desires to appear before it in person, to
present for consideration any question of
interest or concern.

1. While in office, the President shall
appoint standing and special committees and
their Chairmen, subject to the approval of a
majority of the members of the Executive
Committee. To these committees shall
be entrusted during the coming year the
formulation and enforcement of regulations
in accord with the nature of the Committee.
Such committees and regulations are subject
to the control and approval of a majority of
the members of the Executive Committee.

J. By direction of the Board of
Trustees of Washington and Lee University
it shall be the duty of the Executive
Committee to appoint each year the
student members to all appropriate Faculty
Committees, at the time designated by the

Board of Trustees.

K. An Executive Session is deﬁned as
a session of the Executive Committee that
is closed to the public. Individuals who are
not presently serving on the Committee can
be present only at the express invitation of
the Committee.

L. The Executive Committee may,
on a vote of two-thirds of a present quorum
or the discretion of the president, decide to
enter into Executive Session.

M. The Executive Committee shall
establish guidelines for recognizing student
organizations. The current policy shall
be on the Executive Committee website.
Amendments to these guidelines may be
adopted by a two-thirds vote of the quorum
present in two consecutive votes, provided
that such votes are at least one week apart
and at least 72 hours of notice has been
given to the Student Body prior to the
initial vote.

N. The Executive Committee shall
establish guidelines for funding student

organizations. The current budget policy

shall be on the Executive Committee
website. Amendments to these guidelines
may be adopted by a two-thirds vote of the
quorum present in two consecutive votes,
provided that such votes are at least one
week apart and at least 72 hours of notice
has been given to the Student Body prior to
the initial vote.

0. The Executive Committee shall
amend the student activity fee as set forth
in Article XII.

VII. THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

A. Jurisdiction

1. The Executive Committee shall
have jurisdiction in every Honor System
case, as provided for by the Board of
Trustees. Each case shall be conducted
in accordance with the Honor System
procedure as stated in The Honor'System
White Book.

2. The Executive Committee shall
see that the Honor System is carefully and
thoroughly explained to the entire Student
Body and faculty. It shall provide all
students and faculty members with access
to the Constitution and Honor System
White Book.

3. The Executive Committee may
delegate some of itsjudicial power to other
judicial bodies if necessary, in which case
these bodies may have jurisdiction over
a speciﬁc non-honor related type of case,
as stipulated by the Executive Committee.

4. The Student-Faculty Hearing
Board shall have jurisdiction over all
misconduct cases involving hazing,
discrimination, harassment, or sexual
misconduct. The Executive Committee may
adjudicate cases that involve an alleged
honor violation‘.

5. The Student Judicial Council
shall havejurisdiction over all misconduct
cases that are not under the jurisdiction of
the Executive Committee or the Student-
Faculty Hearing Board. The Student Judicial
Council may refer cases to the Executive
Committee. The Executive Committee may
adjudicate cases that involve an alleged
honor violation.

6. The University Board‘ of Appeals
shall have jurisdiction over all appealed
cases that are not honor—related.

B. Composition I

l. The Executive Committee
members shall be elected according to the
procedures in Article IX.

2. The Student Handbook outlines the
composition of the Student-Faculty Hearing
Board, the Student Judicial Council, and the
University Board of Appeals.

C. Procedures

1. The judicial procedures of the
Executive Committee are outlined in the
White Book.

2. The procedures of the Student
Judicial Council, Student-Faculty Hearing
Board, and University Board of Appeals are
outlined in the Student Handbook.

D. Appeals

1. All cases under the jurisdiction
of the Student-Faculty Hearing Board and
Student Judicial Council may be appealed
to the University Board of Appeals.

2. All guilty verdicts from'Executive
Committee honor hearings may be appealed
to an open student body hearing, as
stipulated by the White Book.

VIII. OTHER STUDENT OFFICES

A. With the exception of the Law
School representatives to the Executive
Committee, who shall be elected in
accordance with this Constitution, other
elective offices in the Law School shall be
deﬁned by the Constitution of the Student
Bar Association. ‘

IX. ELECTIONS

A. Student Body Officers

l. A petition with the signatures
of one hundred and ﬁfty students shall be
required from every candidate for President,
Vice-President and Secretary of the Student
Body and for Chairman and Secretary of
the Student Judicial Council. The election
dates and the date the petitions are due shall
be scheduled by The Executive Committee.
The election will be carried out by the
Voting Regulations Board.

2. The Executive Committee may
call a voluntary assembly of the Student

Body after the petitions are ﬁled and in no
event less than two days before the election.
The purpose of the assembly shall be to
provide the candidates for the position of
President, Vice-President, and Secretary
of the Student Body and for the position
of Chairman and Secretary of the Student
Judicial Council an opportunity to brieﬂy
relate their views and to provide the Student
Body a sound basis for casting their ballot.
The President of the Student Body shall
preside as speaker of the assembly.

B. Class Representative Positions

1. A petition with the signatures of
ﬁfty students from the student’s respective
class shall be required from every candidate
for Executive Committee and Student
Judicial Council. The election dates and the
date the petitions are due shall be scheduled
by the Executive Committee. The election
will be carried out by the Voting Regulations
Board.

2. The election for First-Year
Executive Committee Representative and
the election for the 1st Year Law Executive
Committee Representative shall be held by
the sixth Monday that the respective school
is in session.

C. Other elections—The Executive
Committee shall provide for other elections
as necessary.

D. General Provisions for this Article

I. Due notice of all elections shall
be given, as provided in Article IV, Section
C, 5.

2. All officers and Executive
Committee members elected in the Winter
shall enter upon their duties the last day of
undergraduate Winter Term examinations.
All Executive Committee members elected
in the Fall shall enter upon their duties upon
installation.

E. Voting Regulations Board

I. The Voting Regulations Board
shall be the sole administrator and arbitrator
of Student Body elections and shall adhere
to the election time(s) designated by the
Executive Committee.

2. The Voting Regulations Board
shall be comprised of one or more members
ofthe Student Body, who shall
administer Student Body elections.

3. The elections may be conducted
electronically or manually.

4. The Voting Regulations Board
may call on the advice and support of (a)
faculty and/or staff member(s) in creating,
administering, and regulating the polls.

5. The Voting Regulations Board
shall:

A. Inform the Student Body of open
elective positions in a timely manner;

B. Answer any questions of
candidates regarding the elections;

C. Review and publish the rules,
regulations, and procedures governing
campaigns and elections. If necessary, it
may make amendments to the regulations
in consultation with the Student Body

5 President;

D. Administer the elections by secret
ballot with one vote per student;

E. Ensure that the elections are
fairly administered and that the results are
accurate;

F. Count_all ballots and decide if
ballots set aside for review, due to an
ambiguous marking or controversy, shall
be counted;

G. Publish the results to the Student
Body the day after each election;

H. Provide each candidate with

the results, including percentage of votes

awarded to each candidate, the day after
the election;

I. Administer runoff elections or
special elections as needed;

J. Sanction any candidate who is
in violation of anyiexpressly stipulated
campaign or election rule. These sanctions
may be appealed to the Executive
Committee.

K. Review results of vote individually
with a candidate who appeals the results
to the Voting Regulations Board or the
Executive Committee.

X. INSTALLATION

All student government officers
and representatives shall be given the oath
of office by the outgoing leader of their
respective organization within one week
after election. Officers and representatives
added throughout the year shall be given
the oath of office by the current leader of
their respective body. The following oath
shall be taken:

“I (giving full name) realize the
high trust and conﬁdence placed in me by
the Student Body of Washington and Lee
University, and being fully aware of the
remorse of conscience that would attend my
failure to perform my duties, do solemnly
swear to support the Student Body, to
uphold the Student Body Constitution, and
to perform the duties of office to the best
of my ability.”

XI. STUDENT BODY MEETINGS,
POWER, ETC.

A. A meeting of the Student Body
shall be called by the President when
necessary, or upon request of two-thirds
of the Executive Committee then in ofﬁce,
or upon petition in writing signed by one
hundred members of the Student Body.

B. One-half the membership of the

Student Body shall constitute a quorum.

C. A two-thirds vote of a quorum
by the Student Body, at a meeting which
has been duly advertised for three days, as
provided for in Article IV, Section C, 5, may
require the resignation of any unsatisfactory
officer named or appointed under this
Constitution.

D. A two-thirds vote of a quorum
by the Student Body, at a meeting which
has been duly advertised for three days,
as provided for in Article IV, Section C, 5,
may rescind any non-honor matter of the
Executive Committee.

XII. STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE

A. With the approval of the Board of
Trustees, an activity fee, which shall be set
by the Executive Committee by a two-thirds
vote of those present, shall be payable at
the time of registration and will cover the
current school year. I

' . B. If the Executive Committee
proposes to change the Student Activity
Fee, it shall notify the Student Body ofthe
proposal and providejustiﬁcation at least 72
hours prior to voting on ‘the change.

C. Central Student Body Fund

1. Student Activities Fees, together
with all other money accrued to the Student
Body, shall go into the Central Student Body
Fund.

2. Each Activities Fee shall be
disbursed as determined by the Executive
Committee. Prior to September, the
Executive Committee shall prepare a budget
for the coming school year. All ofﬁcially
recognized student organizations shall be
entitled to request money from the Central
Student Body Fund.

3. The Committee shall pass’ the
budget allocations by a two-thirds vote
of the members. Following adoption of
the budget any change in allocations shall
require a two-thirds vote of the Executive
Committee.

4. Executive Committee Accounts:

a. The Executive Committee
Reserve account shall provide for all
general expenses of the Executive
Committee.

b. The Executive Committee
Honor Reserve account shall provide funds
in the case of a Student Body
Hearing.

c. The Student Body Working
Reserve account shall cover organizations
that spend more than allocated. This
account can also be used to allocate funds
throughout the year when organizations
request additional funding (i.e. Winter
Term).

5. The Committee will place money
into an interest bearing account on an annual
basis for Mock Convention. This will not
affect their ability to request additional
funding if needed.

6. At the end of the academic year
all residuals from organizations funded by
the Student Activities Fee shall revert to the
Central Student Body Fund.

D. The University Treasurer:

I. Shall assist the Executive
Committee in overseeing receipts,
disbursements, and transactions to student
organizations.

2. Shall keep separate book accounts
of each organization. ,

3. Shall provide the Vice-President
of the Executive Committee with ﬁnancial
account statements.

XIII. AMENDMENTS

A. Any amendments to the
Constitution shall be proposed:

1. By a two-thirds vote of the
Executive Committee; or

2. By being presented by a petition
signed by one hundred members of the
Student Body. ’ '

B. Any proposed amendment shall
be public information for at least one week
prior to being voted on, as provided in
Article IV, Section C, 5.

C. A proposed amendment shall be
voted on by secret ballot by the Student
Body, of which at least one week’s notice
has been given.

D. For adoption, a proposed
amendment must receive two-thirds of the
ballots cast; provided, however, that at least
one-half of the Student Body casts ballots.
Balloting on the proposed amendment may
extend no longer than three consecutive
days.

E. This Constitution is to be reviewed
every three/four/six years, starting in the
2012-2013 academic year, and continuing in
the -----, etc. academic years. A committee,
consisting of eight members and one
chair, will be appointed by the Executive
Committee. This Constitution Review
Committee shall gather information and
promote awareness of the Constitution
through discussions with the Student
Body and propose amendments to the
Constitution, as provided in this Article.

F. The Constitution Review
Committee shall maintain a detailed report
of its recommendations, proposals, and
justiﬁcations for such as a resource for the
next review committee. These records shall
be kept and maintained by the Executive
Committee.

 

  

  

 

4 I

THE RING-TUM PHI °

1

From left to right: Blake Huddleston, John Houser, Margaret Leer, Kristi Gennette, Christina
Lowry, Kate Ballou, Drew Teitelbaum

By Douglas McNie|
5 TA F F W R I T E R

Washington and Lee’s Mock Trial
team competed at the national level
in the ORCS competition at Furman
University. -

Although they did not place in this
competition, Mock Trial president,
senior Abbie Caudill said “While
neither team placed high enough
to make it out, everyone had a re-
ally great weekend and we competed
well. I am extremely proud of both
teams for working as hard as they did
this year”.

Despite their recent loss, the Mock
Trail team has had a very impressive
year. At the WONK competition held
earlier this year, senior Nate Reising-
er won an attorney award and sopho-
more Elizabeth Elium won a witness
award.

The entire “A” team took home
ﬁfth place at the competition, which
was hosted by American University
in Washington D.C. Also earlier this

_ year, the “B” team was awarded ﬁrst
place overall at the Coastal Carolina
invitational in Myrtle Beach, S.C.
andjunior Julia Wingﬁeld won an at-
torney award. The “A” Team won 3rd

place at the Spider Invitational at the
University of Richmond, and sopho-
more Jackie Yarbro won an attorney
award. ,

More recently, at the regionals
tournament hosted by UNC Chapel
Hill in early March, the “A” team
won 5th place overall, earning them
a spot in nationals. At regionals, the
“B” team was awarded 9th place and
juniors Christina Lowry and Kate
Ballou both won attorney awards. Al-
though both teams failed to place at
nationals, junior Christina Lowry and
freshman Margaret Leer won witness
awards.

Mock Trial is a combination of
law and acting. President Abbie
Caudill said that practices consist of
“witnesses learning their afﬁdavits
and their roles and attorneys practic-
ing objections, crossing witnesses,
speeches, and directing their wit-
nesses”.

Due to high participant interest,
the Mock Trial program is divided
into two separate teams, the “A”
team which consists of the more
experienced members, and the “B”

Repertory Dance Concert gives
audience a diverse experience

By Andrea Owen
STAFF warren

Washington and Lee’s
Repertory Dance Company
concert was unique in its va-
riety, said Jennifer Davies,
an assistant professor of
dance and the artistic direc-
tor ofthe show.

“There’s a lot of diver-
sity," she said.

The show opened with
a I2-minute piece called
“Foreground,” created by a
guest artist, Lauren Edson,
who came in the fall.

“it was a big deal that we
were able to get her here,”
said Davies. “We were re-
ally excited." The dance,
as Davies described it, was
"highly intense” and “difﬁ-
cult," showing the dancers’
virtuosity.

She said that because the

€IlC€.

their

Company is now in its sixth
year at W&L, it can bring in

gasps from
when they unwound head-
ﬁrst towards the stage.

But this dance was not
the only sho ‘
In “St
“sad and ten ‘
man and a V» "L
through a e7
relati
scribed by
couple danc
in their und :.

“lt‘s k
piece. but
said Ritter,
dance.

Davies sat
the dance  V
and was Clfiﬁaw (lib
artist, it was anew’ a
for the dancers. . ' ,

“I think it’s really be, ‘re
ful,” she said. 1 V .

She continued to describ

the audience

many more gll€Sl €lI’IlSlS.

Davies described the
quality ofthe performance.

“I think this concert, more
than any one we’ve ever
done before, has consistently
high-quality choreography,
as well as performance by
the students,” she said. “We
are able to challenge them
in a new way because their
abilities have just gotten
[progressively better]."

One of the most well-
received dances was “Alone
in a Crowd,” an aerial silk
dance performed by Dana
Fredericks ’ l2, Jennifer Rit-
ter ‘ I3 and Erin Sullivan ’ l3.
Dancers performed acrobatic
moves while suspended by
a special fabric, provoking

the variety of dance.

"There [are] some su- ,
per serious...high-intensity 
dances and then there’s some
silly stuff,” she said.

The piece following in-
termission, “Inspired by
Leo,” , played -...-witlw.«u:enaLm.g,,,,. .
illusion. ,_,The dancefwas‘. i
projectedﬂsideways onto a
screen adjacent to the dance
itselfand was inspired by the
choreographers’ trip to the
Edinburgh Festival Fringe
last summer.

During the performance,
ﬁrst-year Jenna l-‘aude com-
mented on the show.

“They really tricked you
into believing you were in a
whole other world," she said.

team which consists of the younger
members who do not have as much
experience.

At the beginning of each year ev-
ery team is given a potential trial sce-
nario. This year the W&L Mock Trial
Team scenario was a civil case about
a couple who went scuba diving with
a company. One of the people died
while on the trip and their spouse is
suing the company.

Each competition consists of

four rounds. A round is run much in
the same way as a real trial. Caudill
said, “The trials themselves consist
of pretrial, opening statements, three
plaintiff witnesses with directs and
crosses, three defense witnesses with
directs and crosses, and closing argu-
ments. .
Also impressive, the Mock Trial
team competes against and holds its
own against schools much larger than
W&L. The team competes against
schools like William and Mary, Vil-
lanova University, Florida State Uni-
versity and The University of North
Carolina.

 

MON DAY, MARCH 25, 2013

By Rachel Adams-Heard
STAFF WRITER

As an elite private school, Washington
and Lee University has a higher tuition than
its public school counterparts. Over the years
W&L has gained the reputation of being
among the most expensive in private higher
education. A standard cost of attendance of
$59,313 has earned W&L a spot in Business
Week’s “Most Expensive Colleges.”

Some ofthese costs come-from a student-
to-faculty ratio of9: 1 , which allows individu-
alized attention and a plethora of resources
that aid in the school’s strong standing in the
world of higher education.

But what does the $43, 750 tuition actu-
ally pay for? Are these fees fair?

A talk with Washington and Lee Treasurer
and Vice President of Financial Aid Steven
McAllister helped clear up a few questions
about just where tuition goes.

McAllister labeled the tuition revenue as
“unrestricted.” This means that there is no
speciﬁc program or goal that receives tuition
funds. Unrestricted funds are different from
restricted funds that are allocated toward one
particular department or goal. An example of
a restricted fund would be a large donation
by alumni, in which the donor may work with
the school to determine a purpose for the con-
tribution.

Expenses can be deﬁned by their purpose
(functional classiﬁcation) or by type of ex-
pense (natural classiﬁcation). For purposes
of showing where tuition funds are allocated,
the functional classiﬁcation is more practical.

The largest expense is Instruction, mak-
ing up 36.7 percent oftotal expenses. Second
is Student Aid, coming in at 22.6 percent,
which helps pay for students who are eligible
for ﬁnancial assistance. Institutional Support,
or General Administration, accounts for ll.l

 

Instruction

   

student A
Services
7%

  
    
  
 
  
  

I bottom represent research (2%) and public
service (0.5%).

Small school, big money

A look into how the university allocates tuition funds.

Sources of Income

Auxiliaries
1 1%

Tuition and Fees

g 54% 0

   

percent of expenses, Instructional Support for
9.4 percent, Student Services for 7.3 percent,
Research for 1.6 percent and Public Service
for 0.5 percent.

The remaining 10.7 percent of W&L’s ex-
penses is Auxiliary Enterprises, “which range
from Dining Services to Housing to Univer-
sity Store to Printing and Copying Services,”
said McAllister. Auxiliary Enterprises is the
only expense for which tuition revenue does
not help pay. These services rely on fund-
ing from room and board, as well as sales of
goods and services. v

In terms of paying for the experience of
a Washington and Lee student, tuition does
not cover the cost of one’s four years here. ‘
For this, W&L relies on its strong alumni
support. A large portion of philanthropic do-
nations goes toward athletics, co-curricular
activities, academic programs and various
student services. Without this additional sup-
port, W&L would not be able provide what
McAllister and many others call “an opportu-
nity for a high-quality liberal arts education.”

     
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   

 

37%

Spllll:|l0 ll0lll?)0||V

Note: The two unlableed wedges at the

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

opinions

  . Obsessed with perfection

Does our status as a school affect the drive in our social and asthetic lives as well? Leah thinks yes. ,

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

Our campus is obsessed with perfec-
tion. This ﬁxation is not like my weekly
need to watch “Grey’s Anatomy,” but
something much greater: a psychological
need that has consumed our minds and
thoughts. While my attempt at maintain-
ing a bird’s-eye view of our campus’ so-
ciocultural habits may be obscured, upon
my matriculation at Washington and Lee
University I quickly noticed that we are
perhaps the best of intra-social self-ma-
nipulation I have ever experienced.

Who said we weren’t perfect?

W&L is ranked as the l5th top col-
lege in the United States. This status
is well- deserved with acceptance and
graduation rates of 17 and 93 percent, re-
spectively, high numbers of happy grad-
uates, and a hugely successful alumni
network. W&L graduates are the cream
of the liberal arts crop.

I do not write this with the intention
of levying accusations or pointing ﬁn-
gers at anyone. However, when I picked
up the Phi this week and read the article
on the rise in thefts on campus and the
accompanying editorial I felt I could not
reasonably keep quiet on a topic that has
long troubled me as a Washington and
Lee student.

As a Bonner Scholar I have been
afforded the opportunity to become in-
volved in the local community. and in
the last three years I have met with some
of the most honest, hard-working indi-

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

Recently, the citizens of my home
state, South Carolina, went to the polls
to vote in special Republican and Demo-
cratic primaries to select the parties’
candidates for District l’s open seat.

Somewhere along the path students
remain on for four years a standard is
set. Arrival before O-Week is the great
equalizer; no ﬁrst-year has yet to estab-
lish their dominance in any one area,
whether social, academic, or elsewhere.
But with the passing ofEC elections, fall
term grade reports, and formal Greek
organization recruitment, the “best” be-
come known and the top spots in all hi-
erarchal categories are claimed. What is
perfect? — '

It is doubtful that remaining time
spent at W&L is a “Game of Thrones”-
like battle between peers to rule campus.
Students here excel in a multitude of
areas, but we seem to want to win at it
all. Interestingly enough, desire is not
the brainchild of a certain demographic,
clique, or student group, but the student
body as a whole.

totheeditor

viduals I have ever had the privilege to
know. In fact, I would argue that I have
learned more about honor and character
from the residents of Roekbridge Coun-
ty than from my fellow Washington and
Lee students—honor system or not.

I was therefore understandably dis-
turbed by what I view as extremely di-
visive and classist language directed to-
ward the citizens of Roekbridge County
in the most recent edition of the Phi. I
have spent my time at W&L trying to
break down barriers between students
and the community, a task that is made

Fooled me thrice

South Carolina is continued proof of political and moral insanity

For the readers who don’t remember,
that seat was left vacant when Governor
Nikki Haley (R) appointed its previous
occupant, Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) to
an empty Senate seat.

THE RING

WASHINGTON AND LEE U?\'l\*'l2RSIlY

-TUM PHI.

.-

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

R/NG—TUM PHI welcome's all

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully. and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE

to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA .I. KORASH-SCHIFF

RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO

LEAH GOSE

HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER

RANDY KARLSON
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
YEJEAN KIM
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
YATES WILBURN

ANGELICA TILLANDER

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

letters. We reserve the right

 

An unspoken aspiration we share (am
I breaking our “Fight Club” rule?) is to
be the fashionable, ﬁt, straight-A (s/I)
ratstar. Of course, I am generalizing, but
what would perfection be without a ste-
reotyped example?

On a campus with just under 2,000
students, it is easy (and almost habitual)
to pass a classmate or friend and wonder
if he or she is doing better than you. The
Speaking Tradition is an excuse tojudge
passersby and not be accused of staring.
Our constant nearness to one another is
the equivalent of a real-life Facebook
status update ~ our appearance and de-
meanor say it all.

Being “better” isn’t better.

So much of what we strive to be in
our appearances or on paper is irrel-
evant. George Washington did not give
over $20,000 in bonds for us to all want

considerably harder by prejudicial lan-
guage essentially accusing residents of
Roekbridge County of being criminals.
I don‘t think that anyone intends for that
to be the message, but when articles are
written with lines like “what ifl was a
townie who wanted access to the gold-
mine of swag that is a college dorm,”
and “I even adopted a iniIdly-Rock-
bridge accent [when trying to infiltrate
the dorms]” the implication is that all
Roekbridge citizens must want to steal
from students.

There are criminals and dishonorable

The ﬁeld ofcandidates for the respec-
tive nominations was massive, boasting
a list of 18 names in total—l6 Republi-
cans and two Democrats. Among them
were some very famous people, includ-
ing Elizabeth Colbert-Busch (sister of
Stephen C olbeit) and Teddy Turner (son
of CNN and TBS founder Ted Turner).
In addition to these instantly recogniz-
able names were 16 other highly quali-
ﬁcd candidates, including my state house
representative Andy Patrick, who served
for over a decade in the Secret Service,
started his own security ﬁrm, and has
done my beloved town of Hilton Head
Island a great service during his tenure.
However, the ﬁeld was not without an
infamous name, with disgraced former
governor Mark Sanford eagerly throwing
his hat into the ring for the Republican
nomination. On March 19, a whopping
36.92% of South Carolina’s Republican
primary voters endorsed Mark Sanford
as their nominee, with Charleston City
Council member Curtis Bostic coming in
a distant second at 13.32%. While San-
ford hasn’t won a large enough plurality
to avoid a runoff, it is unlikely that Mr.
Bostic will be able to pull off an upset.

This outcome shows a consistent
problem that has plagued South Caro-
lina politics for countless generations.
Time and time again, South Carolinian
voters have united to demand the highest
standards of moral and political integrity
both through the electoral process and in
the court of public opinion. Oftentimes
politicians’ fear ofthis leads them to in-
vestigate their colleagues ofsuch actions
so as to avoid suspicion of questionable
activity themselves.

Yet, many of my fellow South Caro-
linians like to think it is moral integrity
and a willingness to defend their state’s
rights that they hold dear. Despite this
public facade painting the state as a
wholesome, freedom-loving place,
South Carolinians continue to support
candidates with proven records of ex-
treme moral shortcomings, speciﬁcally
marital inﬁdelity, often excusing it with
the selectively-applied Christian prin-
ciple of forgiveness. This trend ﬁies in
the face of South Carolinians’ proven
record of abhorrence of comparatively
(by some standards) minor—let’s say
“morally controversial”—activities
such as gambling, Sunday drinking, and
marijuana use. Furthermore, for all the
talk by the state’s leaders and citizens
about the “threat” homosexual marriage
poses to heterosexual marriage, the same
people seem all too willing to overlook
the damage that rampant inﬁdelity has
caused the institution.

to be the next W&L’s Kim Kardashian.
Robert E. Lee does not have a whole
museum beneath Lee Chapel because
his mission was to educate blood-thirsty,
competition—obsessed students. This
school was founded on the value of in-
tegrity — the absolute opposite of hypoc-
risy andjudgment. Integrity comes from
the Latin word integer, meaning “whole
and complete.”

In short, to show integrity is to be
honest and consistent in one’s values and
principles, to be “complete” in an entire-
ly personal way. To have integrity and
character is truly to be oneself. It would
be a dishonor to our founders to want
only to outdo fellow classmates. We
possibly strive to be so “perfect” because
we are held to such high standards of in-
tegrity and honesty, but honesty means
accepting your strengths and weaknesses

individuals in every community, includ-
ing our own campus; it is not something
unique to Roekbridge County. Addition-
ally, I am willing to stake my life on the
fact that the overwhelming majority of
Roekbridge citizens would never steal
from anyone let alone a W&L student.

I think there is a real need for people
to be conscious ofthe words they choose
when writing about such important top-
ics. One of my favorite authors, Tatnora
Pierce, wrote something that has always
stayed with me: “you need never unsay
anything that you did not say in the ﬁrst

Name recognition, not qualiﬁcation,
moral ineptitude, nor previous job per-
fonnance, wins the day.

The most recent example of the
phenomenon revolves around allega-

tions that the current Speaker of the SC.

House, Mark Sanford, misused state
funds and assets. Mr. Sanford underwent
similar investigations both before and
after his bizarre affair with an Argentin-
ian journalist was revealed. Regardless
of the politician’s popularity, despite
the minority of the offense, it is moral
failings that take South Carolina politi-
cians down. After all, it wasn’t until Mr.
Sanford’s inﬁdelity was exposed that
major calls were made for his impeach-
ment despite his two terms of question-
able spending activities and completely
impotent and inatticulate agenda for
the state. Further, it was not Governor
Haley’s lack ofexperience, refusal to use
state loans to save Hilton Head Island’s
Heritage golf tournament, or numerous
statements opposing special tax breaks
designed to attract business to the state
that were used against her during the
campaign. Instead, itlwas the allega-
tions of inﬁdelity deployed by compet-
ing candidates that were used to halt her
momentum.

Despite this highly charged electoral
environment that demands nothing less
than moral perfection from its politi-
cians, South Carolinian voters have time
and time again waived moral purity for
their better-known candidates. By my
own observation, it seems that name rec-
ognition, not experience, qualiﬁcation,
or ethnic background is the most impor-
tant factor in a candidate’s chances for
election, even when their moral integrity
has clearly been violated.

For example, Nikki Haley was dead
last in the polls during the six months
leading up to her gubernatorial election,
with her opponent holding a command-
ing lead of 10 points over the nearest
challenger (who was not Haley). Then,
a month before the primary vote, Sarah
Palin endorsed Haley, sending her throt-
tling into the lead with over 30%, and
then winning the Governor’s mansion.

Despite this extensive pop-psycho-
logical justiﬁcation, it is still difﬁcult
to understand why South Carolina Re-
publicans would select Mark Sanford
as their potential Congressman. Surely
Sanford has the name recognition, but
only because his downfall was incred-
ibly spectacular and bizarre. It’s crazy
to think that Republican primary vot-
ers—who as a general rule are more in-
formed simply because they care enough
to go out and vote in a primary—would

(and not berating those of others).

It would be considered irrational to
say we are “perfect,” but George and
Bob did not leave -us with even an in-
kling of what perfection might be. We
are making it all up. We are obsessed
with an idea, a self-developed shrine to
a standard that can never be met. All we
can ever be is who we are, upholding the
highest standards of integrity. Perfec-
tion is not real. So, instead of clawing
our way up a meaningless hierarchal
ladder, we should all take a look in the
mirror and decide ifit is time to be noth-
ing more and nothing less than the better
version of ourselves. It is our duty, after
all.

place.” I am calling on my fellow stu-
dents and the writers of the Phi to con-
sider their language next time instead
of accusing Roekbridge County at large
of being criminals. Perhaps adopt the
phrasing: "what ifl were a thief, what if
I were a dishonorable person."

I would also encourage my fellow
students to go out into the community
and get to know our neighbors; I promise
you won‘t regret it.

-Angelica Tillandcr

 

choose Mark Sanford with the hopes of
improving the prospects of the state or
the nation. Sanford is the quintessential
do-nothing status-quo politician inher-
ent to SC politics, and it is baffling that
the same voters who routinely demand
moral perfection of their representitives
continue to vote for people like Sanford
and Gingrich. This seems to ﬁt the text-
book deﬁnition ofinsanity: repeating the
exact same action, each time expecting a
different result.

In my opinion, any such voter would
have to go through the following men-
tal process in order to justiﬁably select
Mark Sanford: -

I. Look at the candidates

2. See 16 names

3. Realize you don’t recognize 14 of
the names

4. Find the one you do (Mark San-
ford)

5. Think to yourself, “Oh yeah! I
know him! Not for a particularly good
reason, but still! Recognition alone is a
great qualiﬁcation to serve in Congress!”

lt’s simply mind-boggling. Even if
you disregard his inﬁdelity—something
probably 80% of male politicians are
guilty of—he was still a do-nothing gov-
ernor who contributed nothing positive
of note, and continued the awful gutting
of the state’s education system. Further-
more, there is more than a strong indica-
tion that he used state funds and assets
for personal use.

Mark Sanford’s political career is not ‘
one of service or an attempt to improve
the state of South Carolina. Instead, it
is an exercise in political grandstanding,
one in which he serves as a conservative
rubber stamp or obstacle depending on
the situation. In Sanford’s entire po-
litical career he has failed to make one
original contribution of positive note by
any analysis, only able to claim that he
“stood for” this or “defended” that. Mark
Sanford’s political career is a theoretical
exercise in libertarian political dogma
that without the beneﬁt of the charisma,
actionable change, results, or even clear
objectives of improvement that charac-
terize the tenures of Gary Johnson and
Ron and Rand Paul. In short, Mark San-
ford is all talk.

Personally, I’ll be voting for Mrs.
Colbert-Busch, breaking ranks with the
party I identify with most to support a
candidate I feel is qualiﬁed (overly so
compared to the majority of potential
company she’ll have in the House), pri-
oritizes the issues I feel are important
(education, business tax breaks, veter-
ans’ care), and seems truly committed to
helping my state succeed.

 

6 3

THE RING-TUM PHI -

arts&|ife

MONDAY,

MARCH 25,2013

 

To-go (box) or not to-go (box)?

A closer examination at all the paper cups and cartons used in D-Hall

ByAthena Cao
STAFF warren

Forgot to bring your to-go box back
to D-Hall... again? Turns out you’re
not the only one. Students often use
the green, environmentally-friendly to-
go containers to grab food on the run.
The process is quick, easy, and efﬁcient.
But, as it turns out, there is often a cost
to this convenience.

Since D-Hall started using green to-
go boxes three years ago, about 2,000
paper cartons are saved every week, ac-
cording t'o Ordering and Receiving Co-
ordinator Mr. Tommie Roper. However,
these beneﬁts come with a price.

“It is saving us money, paper—wise...
even though the system is really not
working the way it’s supposed to—[the
green boxes] are supposed to be returned
often [but] they are not,” Roper said.

Green boxes get checked out about
100 to 125 times every day and most of
them are returned after students ﬁnish
their food, but some are not, according
to Manager Ms. Kelly Brown. Due to
students who do not return their green
boxes, Roper needs to put out about 50
more green boxes every two weeks..

In fact, some students don’t like us-

ing the to-go green containers, because
they have to remember to return them
afterwards. When asked if he uses the
to-go boxes, junior Jackson Buttery said,
“No, I always forget to bring one back.”

Unlike Buttery, juniors Nicole Gu-
nawansa and Haley Smith said they both
take the green boxes back after they use
them. But that’s not the only reason
students choose not to use green boxes.
The green to-go boxes are designed to
carry a whole meal, even though some-
times students may only want a snack.

“It’s a larger box—if I only want
something small, then maybe that’s the
only time l’ll grab a different type of
cup, for like cereal,” Gunawansa said.

According to Roper, D-Hall goes
through 1,000 plastic cups and 3,000 pa-
per cups a week. Not long ago, students
could get paper soup bowls at the cof-
fee and tea bar, but they are no longer
available, unless they are speciﬁcally
requested.

Brown said that students were sneak-
ing away with too much food in them.
“What happens is a lot of people come
in here and they eat in here»-ok, they

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

will sit down, they will eat, [and] then _
they will pack up a whole bunch of stuff
to go—that’s not the way it’s supposed
to work,” Brown said. “All you can eat
down here, now [with the soup bowls] is
all you can eat to carry out.”
According to Brown, a student only
gets a paper soup bowl now with the
purchase of a to-go meal, and only about 
ten students ask for them every day. 
But the absence of paper soup bowls
did not solve the problem, because stu-
dents are now using paper cups as food
containers. Without the 1,000 soup
bowls that students previously used in a
week, the quantity demanded for paper
cups has gone up, but paper cups cost
more than paper soup bowls because
they come with the hot cup sleeves.
“That does not make sense to me, be- ‘
cause the hot cups are more expensive,” ’
said Roger, after doing a cost compari-
son between the two alternatives.
While the solution to this dilemma is
not clear, students may help alleviate the
situation by remembering to return their .1 . *  x '
to-go boxes more often. . . \ — e ‘C _ .« g ,9”

No “rocks for jocks” here at

 

Thought geology was an easy major? Think again. Turns out there are tons of perks to becoming part of the crew

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

The “tight-knit, family” relationship
within Washington and Lee’s Geol-
ogy department has made it increasingly
popular to the student body. The ben-
eﬁts of being a geology major are both
tangible and emotional.

Not only are declared majors reward-
ed with an extensive package including
t-shirts, Nalgene bottles, hats, and ac-
cess to a fully-stocked fridge, but they
also have the chance to develop pow-
erful relationships that go beyond the
classroom.

“Faculty and students get to know
each other in a less formal way,” said

Associate Geology Professor Lisa Greer-

“I get to know [majors] as people, not
just as students.”

Much of this bonding comes from
the unique trip opportunities offered by

the department during spring term. Last '

year, geology students, along with Pro-
fessor Greer, studied in Belize. Students
would go out into the “ﬁeld,” or snorkel
in the coral reefs, and discuss recorded
observations together. Resembling an
actual family, students and faculty lived
together on these trips.

For junior Liz Olson, the Belize trip
was enough to ﬁnalize her decision to
become a geology major. “I was an En-
vironmental Studies major my ﬁrst two
years at W&L and after going to Belize
last spring term, I decided to make the
switch,” said Olson. ‘‘I realized that I
really liked the science aspect of the En-
vironmental Studies major and didn’t re-
ally know what geology really entailed
before that spring term class.”

This spring‘ term, students and pro- _

fessors are looking forward to visiting
Hawaii. Long hours in the ﬁeld and in

labs contribute to the closeness within
the department. The relationships be-
tween students and professors even
grow stronger through occasional Skype

‘ sessions.

“[Geology professors] give out
their cell phone numbers and tell us to
text them with questions, and I have
even seen majors Skype with a profes-
sor because it was late at night and the
questions could only be answered if the
professor could see the students’ com-
puter’ screen,” said sophomore Elizabeth
Elium. “We call all of the professors
by their ﬁrst names in the geology de-
partment. I’m not entirely sure why we
do that," but it does seem to keep things
more friendly and casual.”

The time students spend with each
other and with professors makes this
small but rising department more per-
sonal and family-like.

“We’re growing quite a bit right now
[and] it’s really exciting,” said Greer,
referring to the department’s size. “Ev-
ery major has groups of people who are
attracted to each other because they’re
interested in the same things, and I feel
that really strongly here [in the Geology
department].”

Geology students ﬁnd these friendly
dynamics between students almost, if
not as important, as the student-profes-
sor interactions. According to Olson,
“Everyone is always willing to help
each other out; if I have a question about
something, I can walk into the Geology
Computer Lab and undoubtedly ﬁnd
someone who will stop what they’re
working on and answer my question.”

Another chief advantage of majoring
in geology is the vast array of opportu-

"ting a liberal arts education at Colo-

nities available after graduation. W&L
graduates with geology degrees do not
have diﬂiculty securing spots in gradu-
ate school, and often ﬁnd themselves in
a growing ﬁeld of job opportunities.
Professor Greer found herself in
W&L’s Geology department aﬁer get-

rado College and receiving a PhD for
teaching at the University of Miami.
The closeness developed with students
within a smaller liberal arts environment
brought her to W&L.

“For me, I get to travel, I get to be
outside, and I get to do work in the ﬁeld,
and those are all priceless to me,” said
Greer about her position in the depart-
ment. “When I’m teaching, I feel like
I’m also getting something back when
students are talking in the class; I get to
have conversations with them and get to
know them.”

Other beneﬁts of being a part of this
department include weekly guest lec-
tures, an abundance of rocks around the
classrooms, and even a “wall of shame”
with pictures of geology students bond-
ing both inside and outside of the class-
room.

While the time spent together in labs
and research creates this strong relation-
ship within the department, students
bond even further outside of ‘the class-
room by helping each other understand
this distinct area of study.

“The classes are challenging, but to-
tally worth it!,” said Elium. “I’m sure
we’ve trespassed a time or two, but
nothing beats having a lecture on top of
a mountain, next to a beautiful river or
deep inside a cave.”

Last spring term,‘ geology students went out in the “field” to
examine the state of coral reefs in Belize. While exploring the
oceans, theiyrdrew samples for their studies.

After a morning of scuba diving, geology students return to the boat to examine their findings. These trips are just one of the many
department form strong relationships and close connections. This year, there will be a trip to Hawaii during spring term.

 

 

 

 

MON*DAY, MARCH 25,2013 ‘ ' 7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

  
  

‘ V I
i_ As part of our ongoing effort and dedication to please all -
. of our students and guests, Washington and Lee Dining !iI
Services annually participates in a, national customer

satisfaction survey to gauge our results. NACUFS, the
National Association of College and University Food Services,
collects and analyzes the data and supplies the results to us.

A I —  " ‘ “  For participating in the survey, a drawing for seven prizes  ,
' V _ .3‘  ‘I .. A 9 V M.,. was held. The Grand Prize, a 36”Flat Screen TV, went to Ellen if _ _
' ' ‘s ‘ ' 1" ' ‘ ‘ ‘ Johnston 1L, Second Prize, a $100 Food Flex credit went to Q A , 

Kaela Fiutak'16. Additionally, ﬁve Third Place Prizes of $25

Food Flex credit went to Simone Baldus, U, Randi Wilson '13

Tara Bradsher 3L, John Hellmuth, ITS, and Virginia Garrett,
Dean of the College Ofﬁce, completing the list of winners.

From left to right: Joe Calicchio, Dean Evans, Paul Renzi andxDwight
Bitz,'during the drawing of the prize winners.

 

A big thank you to all of theW&L community for participating
in our survey and for being the best customers anyone could

 

Pictured second from left: Grand Prize winner Ellen Johnston 1L ’ Pictured Second from left! Second PIECE P|’IZe Wlnnel Kaela Flutak
welnt home with a new television_ "I 5 presents her award Of $100 FOOd Flex credit.

   

AUTDADJUSTSPI - ll mu... . '

  

- Valuable Fellowship Opportunity for Rising Seniors
and Juniors
Do you care deeply about honor and integrity?
Are you looking for a meaningful extracurricular
activity next year? ' ' I
Would you like to travel and represent Washington
‘ and Lee? 5

‘ TIME SENSITIVE: SEE "DEADLINE BELOW

Current sophomores and juniors are invited to
apply for the S. Cullum Owings, Jr. Fellowship for
the 2013-2014 year. Cullum was a very ﬁne person
from Atlanta, class of 2003, who died tragically in «
an automobile accident during his senior -year. The
Owings Fellowship, under the auspices of the W&L
Institute, for Honor and our Honor System, seeks to
promote academic integrity and a community of trust
in secondary schools. Two students chosen as Owings ,
Fellows will visit at least two schools next year to foster
conversations about academic integrity and honor
systems. Each Fellow will receive a tuition credit of
‘ $2,000 each term. .

We seek applicants of outstanding personal integrity
and solid classroom performance, who embrace
the W&L community of honor and trust and would
welcome the opportunityito speak publicly with
younger students about these values. E.C._ experience
is "relevant but not required.

Apply by email to Jennifer Mero jmero@wlu.edu,
not later than midnight on WEDNESDAY APRIL 3. i
The subject line’ of your email should say "Owings
Fellowship App.”On|y in Word or PDF. Please include: a

(1) An unofﬁcial copy of your transcript (order it now). p
(2) A summary of campus activities and any special
— talents ' A

. . . . . I I I  . 3A fl h "250 d ‘ii
Acclaimed creative ﬁction writer Danielle Evans performed a reading .(,,,§,5o',‘,§.“\;"§’.L‘,’es°.;°’,§ot. :,?pe,ie‘,2'fe' cfu‘;T,fy9‘;'o¥,°§'§

- ° - ° - represent W&L as an Owings Fellow.
from her work in Northen Auditorium in Leyburn Library on March (4) Youragreemenwmakeatleasuwo oﬁﬁmpus.
18. Winner of multiple awards, including the PEN American Robert W. _ visits next year. _ . I
(5) You WIII be on campus for the fall and winter terms.

Bingham Prize, the Paterson Prize for Fiction, and the Hurston-Wright (6) Two members of thfe faculty or administration as‘
. . , . . . . - , re erences. * ..
Award for Fiction, Evans has received critical praise for her short—story 4 I V I ~
~ . . w ‘ll h ﬁ I‘ r ° ' ,I‘kl
collection, ”Before You Suffocate Your Own Fool Self.” The event, which df,}’,‘§'g }fl§fi."2I'2‘f',§,';‘§‘§;‘§'.,‘i‘.'I'us'if':,§f,°,,$ﬁ°,§';

was well-attended by students, faculty and community members, was gfgnbgggfslgi-‘fig

" ' maiI.wIu.edu and Alex Mara os, maragosa13@mail.-
sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment to support the promotion of Wmedm or Selection commistitee Chair Beaug.DudIey,% V

the expression of art through pen and tongue.” Executive Director of Alugnni Affairs, wdudIey@wIu.»
I e u., . ~ .

 

 

   

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

arts&|ife

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

Marinus Ensemble moves

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

The Marinus Ensemble, an intema-
tional chamber music collective, per-
formed on March 20 at 8 p.m. The con-
cert was held in Wilson Hall’s Concert
Hall on the campus of Washington and
Lee.

Founded in 2010 by siblings Rachel
and Joseph Kuipers, the Marinus Ensem-
ble is united by a spirit of collaboration
and guided by a search for quality and
expression of the human spirit through
solo, chamber music, and conductor-less
orchestra performances of the past and
evolving musical heritage. Its members
are pianist Amy Yang, violinist Grace
Park, violist Rose Armbrust Grifﬁn, and
cellist Joseph Kuipers.

During the performance, the ensem-
ble played four pieces: Pohadka for Cel-
lo and Piano; Legende, opus 17; March-
enbilder (Fairy Tale Pictures) for Piano
and Viola, opus H3; and Piano Quartet
in E-ﬁat Major, opus 47.

Kuipers played solo first while Yang
accompanied him. He performed a rous-
ing rendition of Pohadka for Cello and
Piano, by Leos Janacek. Its ﬁrst two
movements, Andante and Adagio, are
full of short motifs and rhythmic ﬁgures
that alternate with lyricism to create dra-
ma and develop a musical current. An-
dante begins with a sweet and innocent
piano introduction. The cello tentatively
enters with repeated iterations of a pizzi—
cato phrase, modulating andintensifying
until it eventually enters into a beautiful
singing melody.

The second movement, Adagio, is co-
quettish and ﬂirty, beginning with pieces
played by both cello and piano. .How-
ever, it quickly transforms into a lyrical
duct, and continues to use the playful
rhythmic material as the basis for the
movement, even in the lusher moments.
Allegro, the third movement, begins and
ends with a folk-inspired cello solo. The
cello predominates throughout this, the
most lyrical movement.

In the group performance of Piano
Quartet in E-ﬂat Major, opus 7, by R.
Schumann, a bright and bouncy Allegro
quickly emerges, based on four exuber-
ant chords already heard in a slower form

 

in the introduction. It IS an exploration
of counterpoint, yet full of beautiful me-
lodic themes, starting with the cello and
passed between the instruments.

The Scherzo is nimble and dashes by
with urgency. Rather than the usual sin-
gular trio, Schumann uses two: one me-
lodic and one sustained. Between each
trio, the scherzo ﬁgure returns with the

 

cello and piano pairing off against the
violin and viola. The movement closes
with a whispering echo of the ﬁrst trio.
Andante Cantabile begins as if it is
already in motion, with the violin intro-
ducing the gorgeous cello melody. The
major and minor sevenths throughout
express this romantic longing for the un-
attainable that so influenced Schumann’s

Fancy Dress channels Gatsby

By Christian Kennedy
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Washington & Lee’s annual black tie
event was once again a big hit with stu-
dents. Apart from another good excuse
to dress up, Fancy Dress offered stu-
dents fantastic music and dancing until
I a.m.

The Gatsby-themed setup was simi-
lar to that of last year’s, with the smaller
gym set up with a DJ and the big gym
with the big band onstage. After walk-
ing up the red carpet past the “Gatsby”

projection on the building’s exterior,
students could enter the dimly lit dance
ﬂoor on the left with the DJ, or towards
the loud soulful tunes provided by the
big band Camivale.

The entire event was fully decorated
with ‘20s-themed adomments, matching
well with the attire worn by the fashion-
excelling student body. Said sophomore
Stephen Moore, “I gave Jay Gatsby
multiple hugs and congratulations for a

 

Twitter @berkysfood

geeée 'e at    

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am — 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 70 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
wvvw.leehi.com See our menu online

 Find us on Face book

great party, only to realize he was actu-
ally President Ruscio.”

Similar to previous years, the upper
level wine and beer garden was avail-
able to guests over 21. The Fancy Dress
Committee’s fundraising efforts sure
paid off with the great success of the
event

Said Fancy Dress Co-Chair junior
Emmanuel Nwakibu, “There is a com-
mon misconception that the Fancy Dress

Committee gets a huge budget, when
in reality we only get $8,000 from the
[Executive Committee] and get charged
to use the gym.
balance the budget, trying to keep the
event affordable for students, while
making up for what the EC doesn’t give
us.”

Nonetheless, he was pleased with
the results of the night. The FD Com-
mittee was very satisﬁed with the num-
ber of tickets and amount of memora-
bilia sold. Said Nwakibu, “When it’s
all said and done, I am very happy how
the event turned out and look forward to
keeping the tradition going next year.”

Additionally, more students stayed
and danced until the very end. Sopho-
more Patrick Wellbom commented: “I
wish the night never ended! I could
have danced for at least two or three
more hours.”

As per usual, students visited the
midnight breakfast in Evans Dining
Hall, which was also very well at-
tended. This year’s Fancy Dress most
deﬁnitely kept up with its legacy of past
successes. For many students, the only
disappointment of Fancy Dress might
have been waking up to a late March
snowstorm the next day.

It’s very difficult to_

writing. While the melody is simple, it
is sung with intense expression as it is
passed from instrument to instrument
and adorned in various ways. At the end
of the movement, the cello tunes down
to_sustain a low B pedal, while the vio-
lin, viola, and piano anticipate the mate-
rial of the ﬁnale.

Like the ﬁrst movement, the impetu-

audiences with musical mastery

    

ous Finale centers on counterpoint, with
the viola leading the way. The piano and
violin follow as if in a Bach fugue, but
Schumann quickly turns things into a
swinging and energetic dance. The work
intensiﬁes and develops the theme with
a lengthy coda based on fugal imitation

.before rushing to an exciting end.

 
 
 

   

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

s po rts  

9 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

Note: Hailey and Kyle's Cinderella predictions were written before the tournament began. Like mostly everyone’s bracket at this point, their teams are out.

j By Hailey.Hartlell A “ ‘
;_sTAFF WRITER T - >



You don’t want- to goto war.-.. WITH

 THE RAMSI! 'j.Don"’,t start no stuff,
Vwon’t beno stuff! s Okay so it really

doesn’t make anyjsense, but the'Virginia
Commonwealth University ,war chant
is really catchy, and‘ really. captures the

. VCU_, 'spri’t. .»I7in’a‘IsRichmond girland
VCU, Havoc,-.ands Shaka Smart are in— _
escapable. ‘ The, tearnhas brought some

well-‘deserved attention to the city and

 .« the school, "and._'a It_ean’1>that‘once was a
' .3 Cinderella shockerhas turned into a sol-
 id Top 25 tean_1.'that;?has'*.not only made

—i_tgto thetoiirnaineh.t1‘consistently, but is
. salsolcompeting ‘fo '
onship. " ‘

He‘ NCAA Champi- ,

theunderdo

.miliar_ with VCU and theiriHavoc’ style 

This team, and the A-l0 in general,

(sad to see the bulk of its power leave-
after the season) may be a mid-major, ’
but they are really‘ .representing and
showing the country that they are just as
good as the ACC, the Big Ten, or the Big
East. They have ﬁve representatives in
the Tournament who have gone 5-5 in’
theﬁrst round and they won ’t stop there.

‘VCU has a rough path to the Champi-

onship, but if they play and shoot well
and stay out of foul trouble they can
beat any team. I know that seems ob-
vious, but every loss VCU has had, has
a glaring issue inone or both of those
categories. ‘For those who aren’t fa-

’ lot of turnovers and score a lot of points

 t_ 

play, they basically pressure, ever‘yone,;j' .
everywhere, all the time. They cause a 

Theirllavoc style defense has teams on-
their toes, and thosewho‘arenftpreparecl'

to face it ﬁnd themselves five seconds M“

behind VCUI‘on almost every play. , A
I VCU also has the advantage of some

the day he leaves :‘—\/_(;3U.’for_.arna_ior team‘

-He is easily one of the top ﬁve coaches:

in m_en’s ibasketballfright now andlisre-J
ally responsible ‘for what this team has‘

become.'— Senior Darius The-us is also a

:huge ‘pattjof tlie’-5Rams’- morale. He is

one '0f:tW,,0'fS}eniors' thesteam, he was

1 ‘a member ofthe ljteam that went to
 the ,Final_ oixrfaiid hefadvocates the im-

the, entire. team to fans and .

 as the talent iandhthe‘ passion to

 make-‘la trunffor,-the ijchamplonship this
fantastic leaders. Shaka Smart is the ce- 5 ' ‘ “ i I
lebrity. in Richmond and deservedlyso. ,0:
I, as well as most Richmonders, dreads’ ‘—

man years to come. ‘ They
' the underdog role for

i c_ha‘ngi Now. is the

Buter will make it to the Sweet 16

Butler — the number 6 seed in the East
Region - is this year‘s team-to-watch
from a non-major conference. While
Butler can’t really be considered a Cin-
derella team after two appearances in the

V Finals, they still compete in the A-I0, a
- league that is not considered to be of

the same caliber as leagues like the Big

, East and Big Ten. Although the A-I0

has enjoyed one of its most competitive
years in history, the lack of consistent
challenges may have caused Butler to
receive only a 6 seed.

However, one must simply look to

 their regular season resume to see that
‘ Butler is a strong team that is capable of

. making a huge run in the tournament.

. to

nileujlured on

 , » aiiexiierl in

entation. Meet him and gellipns from local businizssés at the reception.
I /on by iii’ ‘Oriﬁce oi Diver3iTt\ I and

r net the Czirger D918]-D'plfJ£’il‘ll _- nter.

Butler has wins over two teams that
have. at one time. been number one in
the nation »- Gonzaga and Indiana. But-
let‘ also has quality wins against UNC
and St. Louis. The key to Butler‘s SLIC-
ccss this year will be a combination of
leadership and experience. In 2010 and
20ll Butler reached the final game as
huge underdogs, taking down giants like
Michigan State, Florida, and Wisconsin
along the way. Much of this was due
to the excellent coaching of Brad Ste-
vens, considered one of the best young
basketball minds in the NCAA. Butler
beat Indiana in overtime by two points.
and Gonzaga by just one. This team has
seen it all, and executed in crunch time,

which is often a big question mark for
bigger, well-known teams.

Butler‘s 3rd round game against Mar-
quette is favorable, as Butler beat Mar-
quettc 72-7| on November 19th. Mar-
quctte looked shaky in their second
round matchup against Davidson, in
which it took a last second comeback
to win the game against just a I4 seed.
If Butler can get past Marquette, they
face a true challenge in Miami, but it is
reasonable to expect Butler to make it
to the Sweet Sixteen. No sixth-seeded
team or lower has the potential to make
a run quite like Butler, besides perhaps
Villanova. who, like Butler, has some
strong wins on their resume. The fact

By Kyle Jaeger
STA F F w R I T E R
that Butler is in such a position despite
the quality of their league says a great
deal about the level of the men's basket-
ball organization. ‘
Proven success and a move to the new
"Big East” is a great blueprint" for the fu-
ture ofthis team. RotneiClarke, a senior
guard leading the team in scoring at 16.7
ppg. and Roosevelt Jones, a sophomore
forward. averaging I0 points and 6 rpg,
should carry Butler to the Sweet Sixteen.
Brad Stevens, the move to the Big East,
and the overall strength ofthe organiza-
tion should propel Butler into the upper
echelon ofcollege basketball.‘

Track Carnh/al is runners’ favorite I

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

This past weekend, Washington &
Lee held its annual Track and Field Car-
nival, replete with athletes from dozens
of different schools all over the country,
as well as a much praised Chick-Fil-A
truck.

According to Head Women’s Track
and Field Coach Nate Hoey, a mix of
about 26 Division I, II, and III schools
competed in the meet this year, totaling
to about 2,500 athletes, as well as some
“very strong post collegiate athletes.”

Previously the W&L Track and Field
Invitational, the event was transformed
into the Carnival when lights were
added to Wilson Stadium in 2008. “We
wanted to start a fun, unique meet,”
stated Coach Hoey. “We split the meet
over two days and have a Decathlon,
Heptathlon and a distance night under
the lights with music going and the
spectators really get into it. It’s an out-
standing atmosphere.”

Brandon Uhl, head coach of the
men’s track and ﬁeld team, corrobo-
rated, “It’s been a great event for us. We
get to get the cow bells out, and it’s a
home event, which is rare.” As for the
meet’s affect on athletes, he stated, “A
lot of national level performances come
out of this, especially for D3. A lot of
the athletes tonight and tomorrow will
put in the best times and jumps they’ve
ever had.”

Mark Gensburg, a ﬁrst year, was the
last W&L competitor to run on Friday
night, in the notoriously grueling 10K.
He stated about competing, “This was
my ﬁrst 10k and I really just trusted
that Coach Uhl knew that I was ready
to compete.” As for experiencing his
ﬁrst Carnival, Mark stated, “I loved the
Carnival. It offered a truly unique atmo-
sphere where,I could compare myself to
D1 athletes. The music was truly great
to ‘have. It allowed me to think of the
lyrics instead of the pain during some of
the race’s tougher points and anything

that allows me to do that is OK in my
book.”

On watching Mark run, ﬁrst year
and member of the Men’s Swim Team
Billy Fries stated, “It was really great
watching my friends compete. It was so
cold, and I know that if I were out there
running in that I would want people
screaming for me too.”

First year Levi Warring competed in
both the l500m run and the 4x8.00m in
the Carnival and stated, “I felt very ner-
vous about running in two events, espe-
cially since there was more pressure to
do well at our home meet. It was excit-
ing to compete against some excellent
runners from other Division III and DI
schools. Running under the lights is an
awesome experience, and it was great
to have friends cheering us on during
the races.”

I Junio ander Tallman was a m

I

Junior Annelise Madison, who com-
peted in the 800m and l500m run, came
in second in the l500m run, with a dif-
ference of only three seconds between
her time and ﬁrst. She stated about her
performance, “It’s really exciting that
my time is so competitive right now.
The DI competition really pushed me
to run a fast time. I knew that the race
would be very competitive because this
year the Carnival was bigger than ever
with over 20 teams and 2,000 athletes.
Coming off of a strong indoor ODAC
meet performance, I was excited to see
what I could do in a highly-competitive
ﬁeld.”_ She concluded, “Every year the
Carnival is my favorite track meet be-
cause it is such a high-energy, competi-
tive meet. This year the Carnival was
made even more special by the fact that
there were so many teams and athletes.”

41 ‘e

mber of the school-record set-

ting 4x1 squad. Courtesy of W&L Sports Information.

 

 

10 - THE RlNG-TUM PHI -

25, 2013

sports

 

  in the numbers
4

The total number of weight classes that Cornell's Kyle Dake

has won NCAA wrestling titles. He is the first person to win 4

four different NCAA titles in four different weight classes.

7

The total number of times in NCAA men’s basketball tourna-
ment history that a number 15 seed defeated the number 2
seed in the ﬁrst round after Friday. The seventh was when
the Florida Gulf Coast Eagles defeated the Georgetown Bull-

dogs 78-68.

The number of three-pointers in ‘a row that the
Wichita State Shockers hit in the second half to de-
feat the Gonzaga Bulldogs 76-70 on Saturday. Gon-

zaga was the first number one seed eliminated from

this year's NCAA men’s basketball tournament.

 soapbox

“I made a big mistake today and we should
have stayed in the position. I messed up
that situation and took the lead from Mark
and can say now he is upset. Apologies to
Mark. The result is there, and all I can say
is that I didn't do it deliberately.”

-Fonnulaoriedrlvorsehestlanvelllnlaboutpeselng
teammate Markwebbertovrlntliemalqyalanerand Prlxon
sundamwebborandvettel hadoonlrollalialntheraoovrhon
thelrtaamtoldwebbertnslowdowntbsavehlsorﬂneand
llree.Vel1ielpessedWebboreoonal'ter.tromESPN.oom

“It was an embarassment to football,
disrespectful to the game.”

- 0ostaRloanatlonaltnamsocoerooaohJomeLulsPlnto
allaroostaklcaloetgtotlrellsl-Oonl=l'ldqy.11ienratclrwas
plqyedlnﬂremlddleofasnoulstnrmlnberlvenllieﬁame
rnsstnppedtocleartlrepllnlinrarldnabelbreresumlrig
plqnandth'eyplqyedlwUrayallowandpurpleball.11roteam
planslr:llleanol‘llelalpmtestwllhFlFA.

Athlete of the Week

Senior Rick

1 Sykes earned All-
 American accolades
1 at the Division

III Swimming

and Diving

H 7 championships in

_ two event last week.
He ﬁnished fourth
overall in the 50
meter freestyle and
then teamed up

_ with senior Wayde
Marsh,junior David
 Ireland, and ﬁrst-

 ’ ~ _ year Brennan Haley
to ﬁnish 12th place in the 200 medley relay.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

  B BI'Ol3  
lVIinksR  

By Hendley Badcock
S TA F F  R lT E R

With only one week left in its spring sea-
son, the Washington and Lee Minks Rugby
Club is making the most of its time together,
on and off the ﬁeld.

“The spring season is when we usually
have exhibitions with teams in Division II,
and they don’t count toward our ﬁnal stand-
ings in our division,” said junior and team
captain Michael O’Connor.

Three weeks ago, the Minks made their
way down to Savannah, Ga. to compete once
again in the annual St. Patrick’s Day touma-
ment, in which they ﬁnished 1-1.

“A lot of teams play in the toumament—
Men’s Division, Men’s Club, DI, DII, DIII,”
said sophomore Charlie Myers.

With such a range of levels, the tournament
offered great competition and practice.

“After losing a hard-fought battle against
UGA’s team, we came back to win a neck-
and-neck game against Chapel Hill,” said
ﬁrst-year Mitchell Brister. “It is one of the
biggest tournaments in the southeast. So, of
course, the Minks are going to be present and
dominating.” .

Indeed, the Minks have had a solid record

MONDAY, MARCH

this year. -
Last fall, they 
place in the D3 m
the Virginia Rugby "
this spring, the tea a» 1' H
W&M this weekendli . '  ‘
school year. i: V .
Yet, despite their a -I »

' great deal of students don  M

the sport. ‘ _

“Rugby is a mix betwee if  '
and WWE,” explained Bri 1, h .i
mer baseball, football, so i" H
player, [I’d have_to s
most chal1enging,er‘n‘os '-‘
ing sport to play andtpﬁt M

The Minks welcome anyone interested, ex-
perienced or not, to come out and play.

“The [20 to 30] players come from all dif-
ferent fratemities,” said Myers. “That’s my
favorite part; it’s almost like a completely
separate fraternity. Everyone’s really good
friends with each other.”

Furthermore, the Minks carry on amusing
customs from their rich heritage.

“People don’t really hear about the culture’

  
 
  

 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
    
     

later i ._ _
this nam  -

Since t 3 ii i e rugby team has assumed the
mascot and recognizes, just'for thrills, its imp-
ish connotation.

So, while April marks the end of rugby,
those interested can certainly join the Minks
when they begin preseason practice before 0-
Week.

“We’re always looking for new players,”
Myers said. “And what young man wouldn’t
want to join in on all their fun?”

 

Blue and White fall
short to Catholic

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
team came out to a 3-0 lead against Catholic

» on Saturday, but was ultimately unable to hold

off the Cardinals, losing ll-9.

First-year Carly Taglienti started the game
off for the Generals with a goal ten minutes
in, quickly followed by a pair from sopho-
more Catherine Klinedenst. The Generals
were unable to hold off Catholic as they re-

sponded with three unanswered goals of their
own. The Generals traded goals with Catholic
up until the end, but were unable to overcome
being three goals down with just under ten
minutes to go.

The Generals were even with Catholic in
shots taken, but were unable to ﬁnd their way
around Catholic goalkeeper Tricia Pehnke.
For the defense, junior Leanne Stone led the

team with ﬁve groundballs and captain Olive
Waxter returned to the ﬁeld after being out
over two weeks. Junior Katie Hagen had two
assists and two goals for the»Generals in the
ﬁnal minutes of the match-up.

W&L has two ODAC games this week
when they host Randolph-Macon on Wednes-
day at 4:30, and travel to Lynchburg for an
11:00 a.m. match-up on Saturday.

 

Junior attacker Katie Hagen controls the ball during W&L’s game versus Catholic on Saturday
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

ondeck         ,,

Tuesday Friday V

    

Wednesday Thursday . Saturday

at EM4pm

_ at Emory & Henry 1 and 4 pm

B a s e b a ll at Bridgewater 4 pm

Men’s Lacrosse

vs Lynchburg 7 pm at Va Wes 1 pm

vs R-M 4:30. pm

Women’s Lacrosse at.Lynchbu,g11am

M 9 n ' 5 T9 " n i5 ‘'5 '-Y"°hb“''g 4 Pm vs Carnegie Mellon 12:30 pm vs NC Wesleyan 2 pm

Women’s Tennis vsLynchburg4pm

Track

vs Carnegie Mellon 10 am
at CNU 12 pm

 

   
  

WASHINGTONANDLEEUNIVERSHY     —

  RING-TUM PHI.

  
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 

0
BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 voiiiivircxvii, NUMBER 19
. ‘ A The identities of several
‘ members of the Cadaver Society
have been revealed!
_ p. 2
The eprtome of
Y O L O
The Outing Club is upping
their game and challenging
other clubs to go the extra
mile.  S
. .

 

0 HV crisis.
A string of Natural Light
Beer thefts leads to a
bafﬂed Le‘xPo. Safety in

numbers!

go social

     
   

    
  

     
   
 

Friend us on
Faoebook! ,

@.mgt..mpm Warns ﬁgalnst     W ./ii. @E..!.ii.Ii§ilt3lE as
bumming      TIHIIE roe IiEllE.iit.E]Eal1ii§ilE5

i ecurity       ii  A     A ilk?  

 

By Hannah Howard

‘ STAFF WRITER . , _ V
Hal/e Cl St0l"y l-d€af0V US? "I honestly just d0n’t understand yvhy people care  wear         

Send it to us On Twitter or Pajamas and sweat Pa'"5~” Said 5°Ph0m°rC Ma“ 3355- Latest ratings demonstrate that'W&L exhibits greatest racial diversity in "student body, beating out histor-

Facebook with I‘ Bass is one of the students who felt the consequences of new- ‘ ica11y_bIack colleges and California state Sch0O1S_
v ly enacted policies on dress. Although Washington and Lee has ‘ ‘ — i ' ‘

.  a higher percentage of students who do look nice for class, the V S i ’
ﬁe amount ofi>e0i>1e who bum it is increasing. 2) 42-Year-Old Student Found Wandering in Graham-Lees; Still Lost
Many people such as Bass see no reason to dress up merely . " ‘ . . . i »
~ to sit at a desk for an hour. First-year Wilson Prioleau said, “I  A—”.TheSe Years ‘ . ‘_ _ . h
enjoy teaming in early Classes, but I Wouldrather wear Comfom iVIlSSlI:1ghSt11dteIlt from tCltahss of  ﬁrﬁalllly discovered on the third ﬂoor stairwell. He claims e never
able clothing — sweat pants for example." _ eameg ow 0 navlga e 6 con smg a Ways‘ _ ‘

However, the administration is cracking down. Many profes-

News...2 1 sors reminisce about -the days when men put on a coat and tie to t   What   Pledgeshl-[7
opinbns---4 merld Class‘ .ACC.0n.hng. 10 a Suﬁ/.ey Ofthe faculty’ 81 percent of S New member education teaches Pledges how to swing dance, hold doors Open for girls, look good while
Arts & _ professors think it is disrespectful for students to attend class liﬁing and make the idea] ﬁ0»_y0 Swirl “Pm a'new man now” says Om Student ,
L'le''' while wearing clothes in which they clearly slept.  .' ~ ‘ i ' I .’ '
sport-.s___ Campus security is responding to the situation at the request ’

of the faculty. Students who are seen wearing sweatpants or g  Real RQCISOI1  C0-Op N0 LOI’lg€7‘ S€I"V€S Specially FVléS
. pajamas to class will be written a warning by ofﬁcers. After Studies found the specialty ingredient of Woods Creek run—off may be potentially damaging to students’
the officers issue the citation, they will require the students to health; Similar investigations are being conducted for the Colonnade Stack and Sunrise sandwich.‘

change before their next class. After receiving three citations,

, Wednesdo? d ‘ "llb - "d v «iiﬁ .  A A . »
' ' V} SmTEli]6:tS"idiiiini:ti:tCi:ii liot:si)tiliyaf1th:1iiin lldienentation of this 01- i it Ciadaverss Unmasked! » - ‘
5 Snow icv Wmihelp brim a mm: positive and gmfessional atmospgere _‘Professors,.faculty members, and sorority house moms revealed to be members of the secret society,
i S 11°. 30° tO'Ca,,,puS ‘ . g‘_‘Th'e c/apesare really cool,” confesses one member. “And you get to talk in these deep voices. You just
 Although they expect to meet resistance to the new strategy, <:”can‘tbeat..that' » ’ ' I S I
"[7/ll”,-Sday not“all_stu‘dents are opposed. . . ” . . . I g . V . ~ . . x t
_ It isn tthat dllllCUl[ to throw on nice pants and a shirt, said _   Surge ofStudents SlI’8ClklI’lg the Colonnade . t g ‘
Ram first-year /\rmai1i Smith. “i don’t think this Will he that big Of a . Forget about the pregnancy pact! With graduation right around the corner, seniors are forming “streaking
J . ; I

 
  
 
  
   
   
  
    

4 4 44 19°,  ° _ d  . , t g ,_ I Paths”  taking the Solonnade by storm.

  Resemblance between Sorority Bigs/Littles i if

 

C F ‘
rzdav ,
R . ‘Ii often said that old married couples look alike. This same phenomenon has been found between soror- . ’
am i ' ,,ami Littles, who demonstratestriking resemblance between generations. ‘ A A
€444 23°.40°   Q r i    
ee ~———~—*~em~**~ 1A-ecu-Weather predicts consistent seasonal weather for the rest of
Saturday heyear  ; .- . _ - : .

, V 7 evce/nt reports promise 100% accuracy infall future weather predictions. “Forecast aheadshows clear ,
-‘ L skies‘, with the occasional hurricane, but otherwise it looks good,” says weathennan.

 Driale
M 20°-35°

Sunday

 Mondciyiii

Snow

10°-32°  

.  9) Student Arrested by Campus Securityfor Wearing Sweats to Class
, K , “She wasn’t even wearing Norts,” sighs Public Safety officer, shaking his head. “She should have thought
I » ,-twice’ ,before“committi_ng such a serious fashion faux-pas... it’s unforgivable.”

 V 10) ‘Hidden’ Resolurces. on Campus that Every Student Should Know

  . S , '  . . .i _ " . 
._"~Did",n"t:lmow about the pool in Huntley or the coinnioriroonzi on the ﬁfth ﬂoor of Graham-Lees? Have no

—- fear!‘ Here’s your guide to all the greatest (Avery-well’) hidden resources you’ve never heard about (and. __

‘ - probably never will).

  

‘ The Ring-tum Phi is recyclable.

 

 

 

UNIVEFESITY LIBRARY
WASlllIIG'I’JN & LEE U:‘llllERSlTY
EKEIIEIUN, VA 24450
‘II 0 Z 

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 1,2013

fromthe
e d it 0 r

Readers,

I have decided to resign my position as Editor
in Chief of the Ring—tum Phi. This is a decision
that has taken me many days to eventually decide
upon, and one that I feel quite relieved to be
making. The truth is, the Editor position here at
the Phi is miserable. The oﬁice is a dark, damp
hole in the bottom of Leyburn, we use 1998
Dells to draft stories, and I ’m pretty sure I ’ve
contracted Bronchitis.

Another reason I ’veﬂnally cracked under the
pressure is because of the commandeering Jour-
nalism department. Although it may not appear
that the two organizations are connected, the
Phi staﬁ" operates under the iron ﬁst of the cruel
Professor Luecke. She may seem like a helpful,
kind department head. That is her greatest dis-
guise. On a weekly basis I am required to sit in
her oﬁice while she and the other Journalism
professors rant about the state of the paper.
They claim that it is an unprofessional mess that
should be burned at approximately 451 degrees.
Fahrenheit. The censorship that takes place is
incredible, and even as I write this I look over
my shoulder to make sure I ’m alone.

T he ﬁnal nail in my editorial coﬂin is the read-
ership. It breaks my heart to see papers strewn
about campus, trodden into the mud. Thrown in
the trash. Not even the recycling. The general
claim that nobody reads the paper That we are
useless. Well if you don’t read the paper, then
stop sending me death threats! I admit that it
has helped me to grow a “tough skin, ” sloughing
ojf the impending drowning, death by D-Hall,
stabbed with a high—heel, etc. but please. I beg
you; I am just a person trying to make it in the
world.

So I admit that I have ﬁnally given up. There
is no light in the Phi world, and I am sick of
printing the paper with my own blood. So I
am oﬂicially stepping down. Fear not, faithful
readers (of whom there are supposedly none).
You will not be left without a Captain. I have
put much of thought into choosing my succes-
sor,_ as it would be wholly irresponsible to leave
the organization without a leader Some of you
may know my fearless replacement: his name
is Mark Collins. I chose Mark as my successor

for several reasons. T he ﬁrst is that he just got
back ﬁom Europe and wants to make himself a
greater-known ﬁgure on campus. The second is
that he successfully reached 98% of the W&L
population in one day. A feat I could never hope
to accomplish. Cheers to you, Mark. I think you
will do a ﬁne job.

Thank you to those who have supported me
through the ups and downs of this position, and
I’m sure you will all see the transition through
smoothly. And to the Phi, in the words of the
great Humphrey Bogart, “Heres looking at
you, kid. ”

Postscript: Editor in Chief Collins would like
everyone to know that he has a side-job offering
as his personal assistant. The duties will include
gathering his and the Phi ’s mail, paying print-
ing costs, shopping for editor gifts, and waiting
for packages. He is offering the generous sum
of $800 per week for the lucky new assistant.
Please contact him if you ’re interested He says
it will only take five hours a week.

Sincerely,
Ex— Editor in Chief
Julianna Satterly

A new dynasty for W&L

IF C and Panhellenic run President Ruscio out of power: assume control

By Randy Karlson
STA F F w R IT E R

This past weekend the Interfratemity Council
and the Panhellenic Council staged a takeover of
the University and forced President Ruscio out of
ofﬁce and into hiding at VMI where numerous ca-
dets are protecting him until the two parties can
work out a resolution.

IFC President Richard Coulson and Panhel-
lenic Council President Anne Stafford are the mas-
terminds behind the maneuver and stated, “We’ve
been working on this for months, and everything
went exactly as planned.” The two groups were
able to execute their plan by recruiting ﬁve soldiers
from every Greek organization and invaded Wash-
ington Hall on Friday where they forced President
Ruscio tolhand over the oﬂice of President to both
Coulson and Stafford. V

When asked why the IFC and the Panhellen-
ic Council wanted to take control of the school,
Coulson answered, “Well, since 85% ofthe school
is a member of some sort of Greek organization,
we ﬁgured that everyone would be okay with it.”
While Stafford added, “It just made sense to us,
and I guess we wanted the last 15%.”

In the only interview that Ruscio has given
since the takeover he stated “I...I just don’t know
what happened, one minute I was surﬁng the web
in my ofﬁce, the next I was being thrown out by
.20 students covered in various Greek letters.” He
also added, “I had to give in to their demands. It
was a completely hostile takeover and I was forced
to give up the presidency to Mr. Coulson and Ms.
Stafford. I will be meeting with the two new pres-
idents in the coming days in order to work on a
more peaceful agreement to the situation.”

Even though Ruscio wants to work the situation

out, both Coulson and Stafford have impressive
plans for the school under new rule. “The ﬁrst thing
we plan on doing is converting all independents in
the school into Greek members,” stated Coulson,

“we’re going to create a new fraternity and soror-
ity for all current non-Greeks.” The new fraternity
and sorority names are yet to be announced, and he
mass initiations for each group of students will be

in Lee Chapel on April 3 and will be immediately
followed by a Red Square band party as well as
parties until 2 A.M. in the country.

Since the takeover on Friday there has been a
party at every fraternity every night, as well as the
Student Health Center being overrun by alcohol-
related visits. Kroger, Food Lion, and Wal-Mart
have all reported that they have sold out of all
Red Solo Cups and are planning to order three
times their normal supply for the remainder of the
school year. Lexington Police have also reported
numerous noise violations as well as the letters of
every fraternity and sorority being spray painted
throughout the campus and Rockbridge Country as
a whole.

The story of the Washington and Lee Greek
takeover has garnered national attention when
the story featured on CNN. The reporter who was
live on campus stated, “A school that is known for
preppy clothes, bricks and columns has been over-
run by their massive Greek population,” while a
student streaked the Colonnade in the background.

Coulson and Stafford are both pleased with
their work and Stafford even stated, “This has gone
beyond our wildest dreams, we didn’t even expect
to be put in the national spotlight and the power of
the new oﬁice feels great.” With his feet on Presi-
dent Ruscio’s desk, and a poster with John Belushi
wearing a “College” sweater on the wall behind
him, Coulson stated “I think this is the best for the
University; people are having fun, classes have
gotten easier, and we’re no longer a school that
people ask ‘Where?’ when you tell them where
you go. We’re now the school that’s been taken
over by Greek organizations and I love it.”

‘‘It’s all a part of the rush, man!”

W&L is Outing Club embraces the future of the Outdoors with several new trips

Bylosh White
STAFF WRITER

Diving off an airplane 5000 feet above ground -
without a parachute? Paddling through the world’s

most perilous rapids - blindfolded? Scaling the A

Rocky Mountains - one-handed? If this sounds
like fun, then the Outing Club is perfect for you!

Recently, the Outing Club has been experiment-
ing with new ways of getting an adrenaline rush in
an effort to attract more students. Its upcoming
plans include introducing various new classes and
activities, with the sole purpose of providing an
exhilarating experience.

This past month, the Outing Club invested in
ﬁve technologically advanced “wing-suits” to be
used recreationally by the student body. These
wing-suits, previously used only by experienced
skydiving professionals, allow the wearer to ﬂy
like a squirrel, and will be made available to all
Outing Club members.

Washington and Lee is not the ﬁrst school to
purchase these suits; in fact, it has become a na-
tional trend. “Programs at other schools have seen
amazingly positive feedback regarding the suits,”
said Director of Student Activities James Dick.
“What’s more, they’ve caused relatively few fa-
talities!”

According to Dick, only three students have
suffered life-threatening injuries so far. “Of these
injuries, one student crashed into the George Wash-
ington statue on top of the Colonnade and another
got stuck in the peak of Lee Chapel.”

“Dude, it was wild! I got to ﬂy over Commons

9

and see Woods Creek from all the way up there,’
said Bill Ding ‘ l3.

2‘ »When»asked about the possible legal repercus-
sions of having such a dangerous activity provided
by a school-funded organization, University repre-
sentatives responded by quoting the Outing Club’s
new catchphrase: “It’s all part of the rush, man!”

The school is also planning on offering a new
“sink or swim” PE course next fall, in which stu-
dents with little to no previous experience are
thrown into high intensity situations. This can
range anywhere from kayaking through class-ﬁve
rapids while blindfolded, to being led miles deep
into a cave and left without lights to ﬁnd your own
way out. These classes can be taken for a biology
lab credit when scheduled concurrently with Bio
ll 1: Natural Selection, Sur-
vival of the Fittest.

Dick sees a promising future of
unexplored outlets for students to quench their
outdoor and adrenaline thirsts. This Spring Break,
the Outing Club will be coordinating a free-solo
climbing (no ropes!) trip in Califomia’s legendary
Yosemite National Park. No prior experience is
required. 

Later, a crash course in '
wilderness survival will be
offered, in which participants 7‘i?~*’x:_'
will be dropped off some- I
where deep in the Alaskan
wilderness without supplies ,4

emu 2 at III III

"Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 8. I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online

Twitter @berkysfood E Find us on Face book

1% 6%

8%

5%

:>
5‘
O
PT‘
60
Cl‘
0
Cl‘
CT‘
CD
a
Pi.
2°
t"
5-
‘<2

 

An intensive study into how W&L students spend their time while on
Campus. This is the most wide-spead study ever done on the subject and
included almost 90% campus participation.

I Reading Campus Notices

V Following W&L Crushes and Compliments

ii‘ Going on Wa|~Mart runs

I Ordering Domino's at 2am

I Working Out to Burn Off All the Domino's

I Pretending to Study on the First Floor of Leyburn
I Actually Studying in the Library

I Listening to "Wagon Wheel"

or any means of contacting help. This program
has also been offered at other universities with
great success. According to faculty members, stu-
dents have written fascinating thesis papers about
surviving a grizzly bear attack, cannibalism, and
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) aﬁer par-
ticipating in the course.

The future of the Outing Club is brighter and
more exciting than ever before. If any of these
new opportunities interest you, do not hesitate
to contact either James Dick to express your
interest or to look in WebAdvisor for the
up— coming class options.
So I  long for ‘J

     
      
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   

now,
and re-
member,
it’s all
part of "I
the rush,
man!

    
 

 
      
  
  

 

 

 

   

MONDAY, APRIL 1,2013

 

I16

_ 3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

,.

 

The love letters of Robert E. Lee

By Allie Weiss

DESIGN EDITOR

It was a sunny Sunday afternoon when
President Kenneth P. Ruscio was moving
a piano into the comer of the Lee House
sitting room, out of the way of a lunch par-
ty that would take place later in the week.
As he pushed against the aged wood, an
enormous creaking sound erupted, and
one of the black boards came loose.

Upon closer inspection, President Rus-
cio ‘found that the inside of the piano was
not hollow, as pianos usually are. There
was something inside, barely noticeable
and decrepit with age. Reaching inside,
he withdrew a powdery, crumbling sheet
of thick yellowed paper. What he noticed
next made him drop the paper immedi-
‘\ ately and back away from the piano: the
paper was a letter, signed in 1869 by Rob-
ert E. Lee.

The history department got hold of the
letter—and several dozen others just like
it which had spent over a hundred years
buried inside of the piano—not long af-
terward. Apparently, the Lee House has
kept much of its fumiture since Lee died
in the dining room in 1870. Including the
piano. The letters had been laid to rest in-
side the instrument, unbeknownst to any-
one besides Lee himself, since that eerie
night on which he died.

“This is an amazing discovery,” says
" Jen Jenkins, historicist brought in to study

the letters. “It tells us so much about his
life, the thoughts. We can really get a bet-
ter grasp on who this man was. lt’s truly
incredible.”

But something bafﬂed department
members: the letters were all addressed
to, or signed by, M.K. Robinson. In the
whole of Lee’s biography, nowhere does
anyone by that name appear. So who was
this person? And why did the great war
hero go to such lengths to conceal these
letters?

“We can’t say anything for sure yet,”
Jenkins says. “There’s still so much to
dissect. But given the language that has
been used, and the level of familiarity
with which Lee corresponded with this
person, we think M.K. was a woman. We
think that they may have had a relation-
ship when he was youngAthe earliest let-
ter was dated in the spring of 1825.”

Lee left for West Point in the sum-
mer of 1825. Given Jenkins’ news, it is
possible that the young Robert Lee met a
woman before leaving for school and kept
in contact with her throughout his life.

Though the letters were not yet avail-
able to the public, a few phrases were
shared which hint at the nature of the re-
lationship.

“My dear Robert, I have not heard
from you since you left Hickory Hill. All

must be well, for I trust that I would have
heard were you injured. The news of your
recent promotion has reached us, and all
the town has been rejoicing! Oh, that you
were here with us now, that I could ‘rest
my weary eyes upon your face again...”

“...I am sorry to hear that your son is
still sick. Rest quietly, though, dearest.
Were I with you, I would provide the sur-
est comfort. Imagine me beside you, my
arms outstretched...”

“Your last visit was far too short. While
I understand that the duties of a husband
are numerous and consuming, I do wish
that they had never taken hold of you. Or,
if they must have, then I wish that they
had done so with you as my husband. It is
a dream I relive often...”

Such remarks were hardly appropri-
ate at the time. They have left scholars to
conclude that Lee, for all his valor and no-
bility, may have led a life apart from the
glory and fame. This private life, recorded
in the looping scrawls of what seem to
be century-old love letters, cast Lee in a
whole new light.

_ Beer bandits behind bars

The entire W&L student body was arrested at Walmart for nickin ’Natty

By Graham Colton
copv EDITOR

This just in:

All 1,838 undergraduates at Washing-
ton and Lee were arrested in the wake of
reports of a series of thefts of 30-packs
ofNatural Light at the local Walman.

The Lexington Police Department is

hedging their bets, by arresting everyone,

whovﬁts the description of the alleged
beer bandits.

The police are looking for a Cauca-
sian woman, from 18 to 22-years-old,

about 5’8’’, 130 lbs, with long, straight,
blond hair, who was wearing a green
Barbour jacket and cowboy boots. They
are also on the hunt for a Caucasian man,
who also appeared to be between I8 and
22-years-old, about 6’0”, with hair part-
edto the side, wearing a Ducks Unlimit-

-ed t-shirt, khakis, and those fratty boots.

Both suspects are purported to be
students in the Williams School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics.

A second theﬂ occurred one night
later, and this time a similar-looking
woman broke the law in casual and
sporty style. Bundled up in a Women’s
Metropolis Parka layered atop of a Pata-
gonia pullover, whilst sporting Ray-Ban
Aviators and stowing Wayfarers in her
black North Face backpack, she strode
inconspicuously to the tower of tipple,
somehow hid some cans of Natural
Light in her spandex pants and dashed

out the automatic doors in a blur of ne-
0n—colored Nike running shoes.

Security camera footage remains in-
conclusive.

One school administrator, speaking
under the condition of strict anonymity,
is acting in concert with every student’s
father.

“Their dads, yes. Their dads will pay
the lawyer fees to get them out ofjail
and then we can put this all behind us,”

she or he said.

A sociology professor, also convers-
ing conﬁdentially, shed light on why ev-
eryone looks the same.

“It is a veritable cornucopia of so-

cietal expression run horribly a_mok,”_
she or he said. “These arrests beg the,

question: if _ fashion is a means o,f,se_lf;,

expression, then what are these students
saying? I’m loath to postulate an eluci-
dation.”

u

Total 8

, revamped

 

ByYejean Kim
STAFF warren
er

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

rat Move:

According to Jim Brown of Campus 
curity, as well as various Victims, a random l
W&L sorority girl—identiﬁed as such only
through a glimpse of her monogrammed Ter- 
vis tumbler——has been stealing Barbour jack- ‘
ets since after Feb. break. ‘

“I was just walking down Srat Row, tex- ;
ting my roommate, when she came out of 
nowhere and ripped my Barbour right out of
my hand!” stated sophomore Abigail Schue.
“If anyone’s seen it, it has a gold ribbon my
grandmother wore to her cotillion tied to the ,
tag. I’d really like it back.” M

Even the male population isn’t safe. “I ‘
was alone on the porch at one of our houses,” ~
stated junior Harris Miller, “taking a break
from a so-far clutch night, when this super
hot, super fast chick came ﬂying out of no-
where and took my Barbour right out of the
chair I’d put it in. Then she jumped the rail
and ran off. She was really ﬂexible, actually.

' It might have been because she was wearing
yoga pants.”

According to Campus Security, at least
twenty-seven students have reported thefts of
their Barbour jackets, with an estimated thirty
or more too devastated to come forth.

“I hate to say it, but this sorority girl, who-
ever she is, seems to be real fast and on a real
rampage,” Mr. Brown stated. “If you want
your Barbour to remain safe, you’re going to
have to keep your closet under lock and key.
That’s just the way it is. Who knows, the cow-
boy boots may be next.”

As for Miller, he only has a few words for
the perpetrator: “You’re clearly crazy. But
you were also smoking hot. Call me.”

INTENSIVE
YOR

May 28-June 20, 2013

Four-eek Courses and Workshops
in Dance, Environmental Studies,

- Earn four college credits*
- Study at The New School—a legendary
urban university in Greenwich Village

- Network with top professional

‘Check with your college to see if credits are transferable.
An affirmative action/equal opportunity institution. Photo: Matthew Sussman.

- THE RING-TUM PHI -

Politial animal esca

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF WRITER

As part of an increasingly common
trend in her political life, Congresswom-
an Michelle Bachnian (R-MN) has once
again escaped the security and censor-
ship zone of her entourage and has yet
to be relocated. According to reports,
Mrs. Bachman has taken to assaulting
citizens of the District of Columbia with
unsubstantiated claims regarding her
political rivals’ ethnicity, religious afﬁli-
ations, and sexuality. In certain circum-
stances, it has been said that whenever
victims of her verbal assaults inquire as
to the sources of her claims, she imme-
diately criticizes them for “distracting
the American people from the heart of
the issue” blaming the “lamestream me-

dia” for people’s skepticism regarding
her behavior, looking ‘off in the distance
seemingly into a camera despite the fact
that no media personnel or cameras were
present.

The Congresswoman verbally as-
saulted one victim, Michael Terrance
of D.C., while he was on his way to an
internship interview. “Yeah it was really
weird. She just kept shouting about how
the White House had been penetrated by
the Muslim Brotherhood, only to accuse
me of muddling the issue when I asked
her to back up her claims.” A witness to
the bizarre attack, Ms. Betty Woodward,
was passing by when she saw the Con-
gresswoman “just screaming this poor

pies from zoo,

guy’s head off, constantly blocking her
face to a camera that wasn’t there.”

When the Ring Tum Phi inquired to
the Congresswoman’s ofﬁce regarding
this most recent episode, her former
Chief of Staff claimed that her “tradi-
tional M.O. is to shoot ﬁrst, ask ques-
tions later, especially if none of her staff
is around to keep her from just making
stuff up. It’s really all about getting on
TV, getting noticed, because if she just
ran on her abysmal win-loss record in
the House no one would give her a sec-
ond look.”

This attitude is what led staff to con-
struct a cage-like structure in her Capital
office and DC home,.so as to prevent fu-

M o N’DAY, APRIL 1, 2013

Sunsets on sunrise

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

This past Sunday, President Rus-
cio announced that the famous Sunrise
Sandwiches sold only at Cafe 77 (or
better known as the Co-Op) will no lon-
ger be offered on the menu or anywhere
else on campus. Citing that the “addic-
tive and unhealthy” sandwich was not
“real food”, the President solidiﬁed that
the sun will never rise again for students
hoping to use up their Food Flex Dollars
before the end of the year.

The Sunrise Sandwich is possibly
the best combination of all the worst
things: a browned croissant ﬁlled with a
fried egg and American cheese, and the
possible choices of bacon, ham, and/
or sausage. As I watched on of the last
Sunrise sandwiches to be made, a Cafe
77 employee informed me that the sand-

 wiches will be made until the ingredi-

ents run out.

‘President Ruscio claimed that the
sandwiches, which are made-to-order
any time of day, did not “make sense
on campus” and “do not maintain the

, sanity of the ‘sandwich’.” After talk-

ing to multiple Deans with offices lo-
cated in the Commons, it was noted that
many did not agree with the President’s

"choice. An anonymously quoted Dean
informed the Phi that they had seen the
President continuously send his admin-
istrative aid to purchase a sandwich dai-
ly (which was never purchased at a time
intended for eating breakfast). ‘‘I do not
understand what I’m supposed to do for
lunch when I am too lazy to pack one”
added the source.’ 4»

Without the classic Sunrise Sand-
wich, Washington and Lee students can
expect to see no replacement before the
year is out. It is rumored that President
Ruscio’s addiction to the sandwiches
has led to this school wide “blackout”.
Whether or not students and Deans will
be likely to voice concern for their ob-
vious loss, Cafe’ 77 employees worry
that there will be massive increase in
the purchase of “loaded fries” (a tasty
choice as well, but not as movement-
friendly). “I don’t understand why the
President can’t just say ‘no’,” added an
employee “this is not fair to the students
or whoever has to work the fryer.” The
Sunrise Sandwich will be missed, but
rest assured, I most deﬁnitely enjoyed
one of the ﬁnal few.

evades handlers

ture incidents like those seen at her 2013
CPAC speech wherein she claimed the
President’s budget was $1.4 billion for
dog—walkers, ﬁve chefs, and projection-
ists. Again, neither she nor her staff pro-
vided sources.

When the Phi inquired to Congress-
woman Bachaman’s old professors at
Winona State University, many ex-
plained that her basic sourcing and at-
tribution skills left much to be desired.
Prof. Steve Smith elaborated that “when-
ever I would confront Michelle about the
utter lack of liberal arts etiquette and ba-
sic sourcing in her writing materials, she
would take out a big video camera and
claim that I was detracting from the is-

sue and that I was liberally biased.”

While there are many questions re-
garding the Congresswoman’s recent
behavior and she is still at large, some
questions have been at least partially
answered. For years, many pundits have
speculated as to the motivations behind
Marcus Bachman’s (Congresswoman
Bachman’s husband) disturbingly strong
dedication to “reparative therapy” for
homosexuals. This episode lends cre-
dence to the argument that Mr. Bachman
is simply jealous at the idea of homosex-
uals being in a happy relationship with a
mentally stable partner, and is commit-
ted to preventing others from experienc-
ing such happiness.

   
 
    

O

. Look familiar?
The Gay marriage debate
rages on both in Washing-
ton and Lexington. Who’s
going to come out on top?

as

 

What’s yours? Find your
own happiness even in the
doldrums of Finals Week.

    

Friend us on
Facebook!

 

C
Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or
_ M F acebook with ' W‘
. News...6
Arts 8: Life...8
Sporls...9
Wednesday
Sunny
23°- 51°
C
Thursday
 Partly Sunny
A 35°- 51°
Friday
Drizzle
3o°- 50°
Saturday
I Brilliant sun

39°-56°

Sunday
Partly Sunny

45°- 61°
Monday S
Cloudy

.   480.660

 

 

The use of study drugs

is a growing concern on

campus

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

With ﬁnals approaching, students are
buckling down. Some are chugging
coffee, others are swigging Five-Hour
Energy shots, and others are taking am-
phetamines.

The National Institute on Drug Abuse
says that stimulant medications like Ad-
derall, Vyvance, Concerta, and Ritalin
“elevate mood, increase feelings of well-
being, and increase energy and alert-
ness.”

Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Student
Health and Counseling Services, further
described stimulant medications.

“Stimulant medications are used to
treat Attention Deﬁcit Hyperactivity Dis-
order,” she said. “In those people, they
improve focus and concentration and al-
low them to be better organized in terms
of approaching their work. [The medi-
cine] sort of puts them on [a more equal]
playing ﬁeld as someone who does not
have that medical condition.”

Sophomore, Particia Kirkland went 2-0 in her match on Saturda
the No. 7 seat, 7-2.

THE,STUDENTS AND

One student at W&L who was diag-
nosed with ADHD in second grade, has
a legal prescription for Vyvance to help
her academic coherence, focus, and mo-
tivation.

“Trying to do work without it, my sen-
tences run on, I lose focus, and it just
doesn’t make sense,” she said. “And
also without it a lot of times l’ll do my
work fast, but I’ll miss words or [things]
like negative signs or numbers which can
screw up the whole meaning or prob-
lem.”

She also said that the medicine helps
her socially. .

“Without it, I have no ﬁlter, my thoughts
aren’t coherent, and I say anything that
pops into my head,” she said.

But not all students who take these
medicines have prescriptions.

In 2011, 19.5% of Washington and Lee
students said they had used non-pre-
scribed stimulant drugs that year either

Q o

ust kidding, now on to the
AL news...

SINCE

1897

RING-TUM PHI.

FOR THE STUDENTS

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 19

recreationally or to enhance academic
performance, according to the National
College Health Assessment.

Another W&L student said he took Ad-
derall to help him with ﬁnals this year.

“I never lost focus or energy,” he said.
He said he thinks he did better on his
exams than he would have without the
medication.

But some say these ‘drugs do not en-
hance academic performance in every-
one.

“Professors often say they can tell
when someone has written a paper using
stimulants because it will be a whole lot
of words, but not necessarily something
that could not have been said in a lot
less,” said Horton. “So they don’t neces-
sarily think the quality of work may be
any better. In fact, it may be worse.”

One W&L student described a time he
used a non-prescribed amphetamine in
high school before his ﬁnal exams.

y versus Carnegie Mellon. W&L women's tennis upset Carnegie Mellon,

- ' ’
. sir.

“I wrote a lot on my ﬁnal exams and I
thought I’d crushed [them], but I’d pretty
much gotten Cs and Ds and Fs on all of
them,” he said.

He said that although he felt focused,
he also felt he lacked creativity while on
the drugs.

A W&L student cited using a friend’s
medication during pledgeship. He also
said that although the drugs got him to do
his work, they might not have improved
the quality of the work.

Horton also explained that stimulant
medications might hurt academic perfor-
mance because they interfere with sleep.

“If those medications interfere with
sleep, then they can have a negative ef-
fect on the kind of learning and memory
that we think people should want to get
out of college, which is long-terrn and
not just cramming for a test,” she said.

Continued on page 7

 

 
    

 

 

 

6 0 THE RING—TUM PHI -

 

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

 

 

wluSocial is gaining presence both on and oﬂcampus

By Krysta Huber
STAFF warren

Since the early days of Facebook and
Twitter, social media has proven to be an
increasingly important source for infor-
mation, especially among young adults.
Recognizing this fact, W&L web com-
munications is building on its social me-
dia initiative on campus.

Under the guidance of Web Commu-
nications Specialist Jamie Goodin, a
group of 8 students have been working
since September to maintain W&L’s so-
cial media presence on sites like Twitter,
Facebook, and Pinterest as part of the
organization wluSocial.

wluSocial operates under the account
name @wlulex on these sites. It works to
fulﬁll the promises of its mission state-
ment:“@w1ulex is the student—led social
media hub of creativity, information, and
interaction for the Washington and Lee
community in Lexington.”

And provide information @wlulex cer-
tainly does.

If you open your Twitter account right
now and read through the account’s
tweets you will ﬁnd an array of informa-
tion ranging from W&L sporting events
and scores, to guest speakers on campus.
Similarly its Facebook page and Pinter-
est are covered with posts and pins on all
things Washington and Lee.

Goodin said that before wluSocial was
created, W&L’s social media sites were
more successful in reaching alumni ver-
sus current students.

“The bread and butter of the school,
the current students, were not being
reached,” Goodin said. “Where are they?
What do they want to know? What’s the
best way to answer these questions? Go
to the source and talk to the students
themselves.”

One of these sources who currently
works for wluSocial is Hank Hill ‘l4.
Hill said he became interested in wluSo-
cial because of his future career plans.

“My post-graduate plans involving ad-
vertising heavily involve social media,”
Hill said. “So learning the professional
ropes while at W&L was right up my al-
ley.”

WASHINGTON AND IEE UNIVHISITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

Bridget Rooney ‘l4 also thought that
working for wluSocial would be a ben-
eﬁcial experience for her academic in-
terests.

“I’m interested in advertising and Pub-
lic Relations, so this seemed like it could
be a good opportunity to learn more
about social media,” Rooney said. “It
has turned out to be a great way to have
real world experience during the school
year and learn how to use social media in
a professional setting.”

Another member, Jessica Duffy ‘13
sought a job with wluSocial to fulﬁll her
work-study position.

“When looking for a work study posi-
tion I expressed interest in doing some-
thing with technology or with the com-
munications office,” Duffy said. “It was
suggested I apply for the @wluLex posi-
tion, and I’m really glad I did.”

Hill said that wluSocial members are
each in responsible -for publicizing a
certain aspect of the W&L community.
Hill covers recreational activity includ-
ing Outing Club events and Intramural
Sports, while Duffy is responsible for
sports. -

“Each of the members also has a proj-
ect per semester such as Fancy Dress, or
Accepted Students Day,” Hill said. “I’m
actually making a promotional video for
Lexington.”

Web Communications Director Jessica
Willett said she thinks that W&L’s social
media presence is more advanced than
other institutions.

“We know that W&L is one of only a
handful of schools that have embraced
student input on our ofﬁcial social me-
dia channels,” she said. “It felt like a big
gamble at ﬁrst, but we are really happy
with the results so far.”

Goodin agreed that W&L’s role in so-
cial media is relatively strong.

“Sure, we’ll never have as many fol-
lowers as a 16,000+ student school, but
it’s not about quantity. It’s about qual-
ity,” Goodin said. “Our student insights,
mixed with our advanced knowledge of
social media and technology trends will

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

LEAH GOSE

HAILEY HARTLEY
RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER

KYLE JAEGER

RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

ANDREA OWEN

keep us useful, relevant and engaging.”
wluSocial is currently accepting ap-
plications for the 2013-2014 academic
year, which are due by April 21. Ap-
plication questions can be found on the

htejjactlon, for the Washington and Lee Unhrersityoolmnunlty in‘

Profile summary

Web Com-
munications

section of the
school website.

Rooney

E: ‘R’ 

Lexington.

Lexington, VA - http://www.wIu.edu ‘

2,416 878 956

 WLU Crushes Samantha Sisler, Rachel Christensen 

wluLex

Isl

Wilkins play for the next hour. l.iveA'.TheLab

Details

wluLex

H

wluLex

I053

closes today! wlucareers bi:.ly,-"Ol,8VLio

 wluLex

." " I“ ....maybeasign of spring? - sprlnglecomlng Iexpic TwitpiC.CC-n'1-" 

G010 ‘LII proﬁle 

said

Beer and live music are still flowing at Blue Lab! Head on over to hear Alex

Bored? Go over to Blue Lab from 2:30 - 5 to hear alum Alex Wilkins play
Li-ie-‘«.:TheLal:~ and grab a pint {or two) of Coffee Chocolate Stout.

Want to take the MCATS over spring break? Registration for the 4/ l 3 test

Running with the #hashtag ,

 
  
   
   
   

that
she is look-

ing forward to having new
members join the wluSocial team. One
of the biggest challenges she has faced
this year is coming up with new content
ideas.

“We’re excited to hire some fresh
minds for next year’s team,” she said.

Goodin said that one of the character-
istics they will be considering with each
applicant is attitude. While prior skills
are certainly beneﬁcial, they are also
something that can be taught.

“Is this student open-minded, able to
learn, responsible? Does this student
understand, appreciate and love what it
means to be a W&L student?” Goodin
said. “lt’s the basics of being a purpose-
and team-driven learner that we’re look-
ing for.”

yria: An
ongoin

  

 

confli

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

BUSINESS MANAGERS DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS

KANE THOMAS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
’/I WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Growing from protests and small
bombings to multiple massacres and
a large refugee problem, the situa-
tion in Syria continues. It is com-
mon knowledge to most students on
campus that Syria is in the midst of
a brutal civil war. However, it can
be diﬂicult to understand the rea-
sons behind the war and the interna-
tional ramiﬁcations of the conﬂict.

Although Syria is primarily made
up of oneethnic group, according to
the CIA World Factbook, it is very
religiously diverse. This has often
caused tensions in the past and is
part of the reason behind the current
civil war. The main impetus for the
war, however, is the anti-govem-
ment sentiment that has been grow-
ing in many countries in the area.

Since March of 2011, rebels have
protested the authoritarian regime
of President Bashar al-Assad. Ac-
cording to BBC reports, the ﬁrst of
many protests started in Deraa after
“the arrest and torture of some teen-
agers who painted revolutionary
slogans on a school wall.” How-
ever, by June of 2011 the riots had
spread across the state.

The govemment’s attempts to
suppress the uprising with military
force left 700 people dead after only
a month. After an original rebel re-
treat in April 2012, additional mis-
sions by the military have been un-
successful.

  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  

The situation in Syria is creating
such an international controversy
because of the human rights issues
arising in the midst of war. In Dec.
2012, the Ofﬁce of the High Com-
missioner for Human Rights in
Geneva stopped trying to estimate
deaths because the counting had
grown too difficult.

Bombings and massacres are
the root of the majority of deaths.
Assad’s ofﬁcials blame terrorists for
many of the bombings, while rebels
blame the security forces. It is un-
clear who is actually behind these
civilian attacks. However, the UN
has accused the pro-govemment
military of violating humanitarian
law by targeting innocents.

The threat of human rights viola- T

tions has caused many people to
ﬂee the country. The Syrian refu-
gee situation is a crisis on its own
as neighboring countries try to ﬁnd
a place to house the runaways. Ac-
cording to BBC, more than one mil-
lion people have moved into Jordan,
Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey.

As of now, there has not been
a heavy amount of international
involvement. Many nations are
watching the situation closely. Yet,
other than an EU arms embargo,
there has been little active.move-
ment or aid by the major global
players. Time will tell if they will
intervene as the crisis progresses.

  

 

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM.PH| -

 

 

 

, Joining the debate

W&L students see an increase in acceptance of the LGBT Q community

: By Rachel Adams-Heard
STA F F W R IT E R

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Washington and Lee University
students are actively participating
in the Gay marriage debate both on
campus and in Washington.

The Supreme Court heard the first
arguments on Proposition 8 and the
Defense of Marriage Act on Tues-
day, March 26. Demonstrators lined
the sidewalks outside the Court, both
protesting and supporting the debat-
ed legislation, which specifies that
marriage should only be between a
man and a woman.

First-Year Madison Smith went
to Washington in hopes of observ-
ing Westboro Baptist Church for
her research paper. After reading
their scheduled protests on the WBC
website, Smith attempted to catch
the group at the Pentagon and the
Arlington Cemetery, but with no
luck. When she arrived at the Su-

 

 

 
 
 

preme Court at noon, she received

Westboro had been there earlier in

word from another protestor that’

the morning.

Smith spoke to an anti—gay mar-
ri_age protestor, who wore a burlap
sack over a denim shirt that bore his
name embroidered on the right side,
and held a sign that read, “God made
them male and female, and said...a
man shall be joined to his wife,” a
verse from Mark 10:6-7.

Smith said the man repeatedly ig-
nored her when she asked him about
how the Constitution applied to gay
marriage.

‘ Back in Lexington, sophomore lg-

‘ nacio Portela, better known as “Na-

cho,” explained that he considers

the current debate “silly, [since] the

principles that America claims to go

by should give the same rights and

freedoms to everyone.” Portela then

said that he sees gay marriage in the

' country’s future and that much of the
argument right now is superﬂuous.

Senior Wayde Marsh said he hopes

to see DOMA and Prop 8 defeated

 

Madison Smith ’16 observes Westbbro Baptist Church protests in Washington for a research paper.

Continued, from “Poppin’ the pill”

Two W&L students said they had tak-
en Adderall recreationally. Both said
they felt very focused on anything that
grabbed their attention, but that they had
stayed up until 7 a.m., much later than
they had wanted to.

Horton said that she occasionally sees
students come into the Health Center
agitated and drunk after using the drugs
recreationally with alcohol.

And there are other complications that
the drugs can have. The student who
was prescribed Vyvance for ADHD de-
scribed some issues she has had with her
medication in the past year.

“[My doctor] found out last year that I_

have a heart murmur,” she said, explain-
ing that the stimulants had exacerbated
the murmur. ‘

She also described the negative effects
on her personality.

‘‘I’m a lot happier and more carefree
when I’m not on it,” she said.

She added that the medication also in-
terferes with her appetite and that she
usually skips lunch and that ﬁnding the
right medication for her has been a dif-
ﬁcult trial—and-error process.

In addition, Horton says that she has
seen students come into the Health ‘Cen-
ter after overdosing.

“Occasionally we will see someone
who has a prescription for it and has
been trying to finish up a lot of work and
has taken too much of it, and they will
come in with a rapid pulse, high blood
pressure, feeling very anxious,” she said.

In her 25 years, Horton has seen 2-3
episodes when students who had over-
dosed on stimulants had to be taken to
the hospital.

Horton also described the legal conse-
quences of non-prescription stimulant
use.

“I think a lot of students are not aware
about how serious the legal consequenc-
es are,” she said. Even giving the drugs
to a friend who does not have a prescrip-
tion, she said, is a Class II felony.

*Sources have been promised conﬁ-
dentiality.

_ _ K“ index] I (,nc,,_....) . L -
r-11 .

» fullnwrngf l‘\‘.cur.\.'\\.c f ‘ . ‘
\l“7n xhk . —T -. ‘H-“‘“"‘ \S 4;'\\
\ Al O as -.n;:un\L.ntx. --\ u.-e\
jut Jli

index) '-

mg. .

gm

1 L

 

“ hk,“ ﬁn» tullus-mug ‘~k..,\“\.‘VQ‘

’.. -an

(3

  

\\ . » .
L‘ O as '.\rgun\cI\\\‘-. unuxuu \\ \_ “
.\ “Q

1-,~(__rin'-3 ) ‘

- dexl
Until-"1

-.§,,Li. . V . \
‘ ‘(tn \“ ‘1 I.
vs 1\’§""-

\ ~st:\i‘3”“

-4- examp'1.‘.’5(Bt'-‘l-’<-¥?‘U'\<3. index 4. 1‘ 3

M,‘ \\m.,N.,g¢;g \Vtnt\£x%‘g ..
..f \_u ixxxfitg
\‘ ,_.k‘mt_; _ gmd. 3
‘>“.‘,\..““-1?‘ DY

 
 

on the basis that marriage equality is
a civil rights issue, but he promotes
patience and open communication
on both sides of the argument.

“If we do notitake the time to have
a fair dialogue with both sides, the
issue will not be resolved peace-
fully, regardless of the outcome of
the Supreme Court’s decision,” said
Marsh.

Both Portela and Marsh said they
believe that the W&L environment
is increasingly supportive of the
GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual,
Transgender, Questioning) commu-
nity.

Marsh adds, “I think our campus
has found a nice balance where the
GLBTQ community is more wel-
comed and supported, but not at the
expense of demonizing or alienating
those who do not believe that those
are acceptable lifestyles.”

.7 >'¢'..;'..§,,,‘,‘a‘V,_?hw‘r

W; on <:c=.v.,»t'\es
e‘x‘e~::i\!\‘;,
ea ‘$x\u:., s'.\u;\\ 13*

1 ..~ :1 t\’\t‘_ £t£i>?“‘?im““i

  

 

 

 

 

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

a rts &l i fe

 

 

  Speak Hosts  
Ta e Back the N ig

 

nulal
t

Survivors of rape and sexual assault come forward and share their stories in a cat artic evening

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

This past Thursday, SPEAK held its
annual Take Back the Night in a collab-
orative effort with l-in-4 and the Uni-
versity Counseling Center. Held, at the
Cohen Amphitheater,jthe night proved
to be cathartic for the survivors who
shared their stories and enlightening for

its often shocked listeners. ‘ ‘

First started at Washington and Lee six
years ago, the night is an opportunity for
survivors of rape and sexual assault to
come forward and share their stories.
Said senior Johanna Cho,'President‘ of
SPEAK and herself a survivor: “For the
speaker, talking about such ‘a personal
experience in public can beespecially
cathartic and healing. It’s a way for the
student to feel a sense of empowerment,
[over] herself and over her life, which
can seem lost to a survivor of sexual as-

grea” , yvar

Fnding

Does anything else matter? Cancelmo a’e

By Graham Colton
c o P Y E D I T 0 R

Laborious hours spent wasting away
in the bowels of Leybum; four hours
of a science lab; endless, soul-crushing,
mind—numbing, irksome hours of aca-
demic drudgery.

Hell, on earth.

Be happy.

Richard P. “Duke” Cancelmo Jr. ‘80, a
partner with Bridgeway Capital, an in-
vestment management company based
in Houston, spoke on how to be happy
at work. His presentation was the ﬁnal
talk in Washington and Lee’s yearlong
“Questioning the Good Life” interdisci-
plinary seminar series. ,

With a thick Texas drawl and good-
natured Southern hospitality, Cancelmo
asked, “The Good Life: Can Your Work
Life Become Your Life’s Work?” It was
open to the public at no charge. His
employer keeps half of their proﬁts for
themselves and donates the other half to
charity.

The all-mighty, never—ending, tear-
inducing quest for eudaimonia (human
ﬂourishing) begins and ends with, in
Cancelmo’s words, “people, places,
and purpose.” Rather than summariz-
ing how that works in his world, I’ll see
how we can integrate his scheme into
ours. Inspired by Leah Gose’s no holds
barred, truly insightful commentary on
our dehumanizing and deindividualiz-
ing pursuit of perfection, I can see how
we can be happy while at work at W&L.
Thank you, Leah.

People. Perhaps you relate to your so-
rority sister or fraternity brother. And
they make you happy. But go on, min-
gle with a Jeed (GDI). You might like
it. We may not be as attractive, athletic,

  

sault/rape. Second, it is important for
the community. All members of our
community need to hear these stories
because one of our aims is to foster ‘a
healthy and safe campus culture.”

The night began with a speech from
psychologist Janet Boller, who de-
nounced the victim-shaming mentality
that is rampant in today’s culture, espe-
cially due to social media. Giving ex-
amples such as two female anchors who
lamented the effects -of a guilty verdict
on two young rapists, she shed a new
light on how deeply these behaviors
have pervaded society today.

The night then continued with stories
from several survivors, some of whom
were present to tell their ordeal, while
some stories were submitted anony-

intelligent, well-dressed, or socially un-
awkward as you, but... were something
else. I often ﬁnd my greatest happiness
in mingling with the uncool. For in-
stance, though I may feel it obligatory
to say “Hey, (blank)” to an attractive girl
(and interact with her no more), I know
that I’m just another person on the long
list ofthose seeking to greet her. But on
nights when Cafe ’77 is really busy, and
the line’s long, and everyone’s enjoying
themselves except for the wage-slaves
(i.e., digniﬁed people) behind the coun-
ter, I can’t help but compliment myself
on my upstanding citizenship for ask-

ing the woman behind the cash register,

 

inger also spoke, representing a member
of a rarely-heard faction of the student
body: male friends who became conﬁ-
dantes for survivors. In a particularly
distressing moment, he stated, “I re-
member being shocked when a friend
came to me and shared her story. But
then another did. And then another.
And lthenlanother. And then another.
And then three more.”

Horrifyingly, the number of survivors
who have come forth remains about the
same every year, which was both frus-
trating and aggravating for Cho.» “Why
does this keep happening?,” she asked a
silent, attentive crowd. “What more can
we do to prevent it?”

However, she also praised W&L for
implementing active bystander train-
ing, and ended the spoken portion of

rd rto:i:re,ate-7'
v ' .:,.~‘.T.,f

‘How are you?” and actually meaning
it. ‘

And then places. Some among us feel
a great attachment to this, the alma ma-
ter. But where else do you ﬁnd mean-
ing? In what places? We would do
well to step outside of our dwellings
(be they Greek houses, residence halls,
or off-campus habitations) and ﬁnd an-
other home away from home away from
home (that is, somewhere else than here
or home). I found mine at the Lexington
Ofﬁce on Youth, where mainly minor-
ity children of low socioeconomic status
accepted me, a spoiled, Caucasian col-

5

legian, as one of them. The dirt on my

the night by calling the Head RA, Head
Peer Counselor, and President of l-in-4
to say The Pledge, along with the audi-
ence, whichpromises that the speaker

, will never “commit or condone sexual

violence of any kind.” The night ended
with a candlelit walk for’ every survivor
of rape and sexual assault.

As for all the ‘attendees, Cho stated:
“Your attendance is symbolic of your
absolute intolerance for sexual assault
and rape on campus. It is also a demand
for a healthier, safer campus culture.
Who doesn’t want that? You would say
the answer is ‘no one.’ No one is against
a safer, healthier campus culture. No
one is against better, more meaningful
relationships between students, platonic
or otherwise. No one is against happi-
ness and health.”

’ _ l

Happiness in College

ivers the last of the “Questioning the Good Life ” series

jeans (from playing football with them)
is proofenough, no?

Finally, purpose. What’s yours’?
What’s mine, you ask? Um, being the
pest person I can be, despite numerous
fallibilities. But I often succumb to
these fallibilitics, and ﬁnd myself un-
happy. Our purpose must go beyond
large breasts, muscles, hair, one‘s place
on Gree/(Ran/<.cnm, and the getting of
A’s and girls and guys. In the words
of Kanye West, “Whachu about?” Are
you about the above purposes‘? Or other
ones?

Stickin’
It to
the

Man

Raging hard with
Henry David Thoreau

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Laura Dassow Walls, an English pro-
fessor at the University of Notre Dame,
spoke last week about Henry David Tho-
reau.

Thoreau’s pretty interesting, to say the
least. Just as we are ﬁnding ourselves
during these four years, Thoreau spent
his entire life in search of himself. Dr.
Walls classiﬁed his work into four sec-
tions: counter frictions, truth, beauty, and
cosmos.

Counter frictions. There’s certainly
some friction in my life. Between my
suitemates and I, when ‘they turn on a
light in a room that no one’s in (I’m sure
I annoy them, too). Between my par-
ents and l, as they indoctrinate me with

Christianity (as they have since I gained V

sentience). And between my professors
and l, as I try to raise my grade and they,
I’m tempted to say, don’t do that. But
where’s the love, y’know? How do I be
myself without rubbing others the wrong
way? How do you do that? I think that
we should turn off the voice in our head
that neatly judges and categorizes others
according to our perceptions of them. I
must admit, Jesus (supposing he exist-
ed) said it best: “Judge not, lest you be
judged.” I don’t wanna bejudged.

Truth. I’m in constant pursuit. Dur-
ing study breaks, I like to force myself
to read Jesus’ words from the Bible. If
he was, as all of the Western world be-
lieves, the truth teller incarnate, then all
I’d like to do is drop out of college and
see what was on his mind. What’s your
truth? Facebook? Twitter? Netﬁix? I
think we’re in an age of constant nihilism
in which nothing touches bottom. We
are constantly moving or doing, texting
or calling, emailing or Skyping, reading
or writing, studying or home working,
eating or sleeping, exercising or fornicat-
ing, practicing or competing, rehearsing
or performing, the list goes on. Where
does it end? Where does our treasure lie?
Granted that I’m judging you, the reader,
permit me to do so if it makes you reflect
on your circumstances, some of which
may have been listed above.

Beauty. We worship it. Those who
have it skyrocket from Potential New
Member to Kappa Kappa Gamma or Phi
Delta Theta (or to another one; you’re
beautiful too). _But don’t you agree (to
some extent)? May I remind you where
true beauty lies? Inside, yes. As hard as
it is for me to look past her physical ap-
pearance, I find that the uglier she is on
the outside, the more utterly breathtaking
she is on the inside, behind a misfortune
with which she was born. As I grow my
hair out, I ﬁnd myself adjusting it to the
parted WASP look once an hour or so.
Just to ﬁt in with the paradigm of male
hair here. And still, as I do so, I lose a bit
of myself. And he was handsome. Love
thyself.

Cosmos. The world is not to be plant-
ed with ﬂowerbeds, paved over, and
squeezed dry of every last drop of its
stunning ineffability. Rather, it ought
to be preserved. How are we doing so?
By carpooling (that is, one person is in
the car), in Chevy Suburbans to drive to
class? By unwrapping a Solo cup and
sending it to a wasteland ﬁve minutes
later? By getting a new green cup (with
the world map on it) from D-Hall for cof-
fee every day and sending it to the same
place? By getting water from the Co-Op
in those plastic cups, then throwing those
in the trash? Geez.

 

“Yes, please do.”

 

  

 

 

MONDAY,

APRIL 1, 2013

9 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

  ‘hi’ mix  
E! t

., ‘ff
‘-1’ vi

.-

  i

I

),

J

E.

- be a power shift in coll

Big East are

, By Hailey Hartley
srA F F w R I T ER , i
The college basketball season is wind-
ing down and we’re getting ready for

‘ 3 another major shift in the conferences.

But first we’ll see a new champion cut
down the nets and we’ll be facing the
 constant debate as toiwho was the best
3 conference in basketball this season. Ev-
ery conference’s image is marred by a
black sheep or two (or three "or four) but
on the whole, the Big East has dominat-
_ ed this post season. And isn’t that really

‘ what matters? ' -V
A The Big East is home to seven teams

that made it to the big dance,‘ three of

is strong and will get even better

As March Madness unfolds and many
traditional wowers play far into the tour-
nament, it is important to consider the
landscape of college basketball for 20 l 4
and beyond. Many ams will be chang-
ing conferences next ye and there will
basketball.
The catholic 7 (s “en teams in the Big

' East) will form a new Big East with But-
ler and Xavier. The movement ofteams
to new conferences is an exciting time
for fans, as we will get to witness new
matchups and better basketball in Wu-
eral. The crossing over of teams also
changes the liierarehy of college basket-
ball, and I believe next season the ACC

I‘, will surpass other power conferences
like the Big East and Big Ten as the best

vorites going into t
from Louisville‘—‘o'f co

number one seed‘

ment, and on ;and lumber-I one team

conference in basketball.

The /\("C is already a strong basket-
ball conference. This season we saw two
number two seeds come out ofthe AC C .
in Duke and Miami. Also, UNC. an eight
seed in this year‘s tournament, is alw" '
a threat to make a run in the tournament.
These three teams form a core for AC C
basketball. Anytime these teams face off
it is must see TV. When you consider
teams like NC State, Florida State, Vir-
ginia. and Georgia Tech, strong teams in
the ACC can never afford to take a game
off.

Other than the Pac-l2, which has I5
national championships due to the dy-
nasty of UCLA, the ACC has the most
national championships in basketball

to ‘the. tourna- _,i V

the favorite by many. to be -the last team ’
 standing at the,_end,‘and while its not -al
- creative pick,-it’__s deﬁnitely a safe oneto.
‘ » make. ‘T hey ‘have a tough testiintheir
“rematch against Duke to make'it‘.t0' the
‘rial ‘ Fou_r,,i but they have been-_.beating_'
ugh teams allyear. This _is "theio_ppor- .
‘ tunitythat theyvvill have to take full ad-
 ‘vantage of, and if theyldo, ‘will unques-
, pg ‘tionably be the favorites going into

the
Final Four. C i "

The Big East really is the most well
rounded conference in the nation.

-They’re not only well represented in the ‘

with 12. Teams like Duke and UNC can
always be expected to compete for a
national championship y tr in and year
out. The Big Ten and 13‘ lzast trail be-
hind with l0 championships apiece.
What makes the ACC truly the best
conference in basketball is their future
outlook. In 2()l3. Notre Dame, Pitts-
burgh and Syracuse will join the confer-
ence. This is a huge addition and will
make the conference even stronger. S
aeuse proved this year that it is a cham-
pionship caliber team. one that will com-
pete ﬁercely with the likes of Duke and
Miami. Notre Dame and Pitt are teams
that will pose as a challenge to any top
25 team. Best of all, however, is Louis-
ville, who will be joining the conference

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY STORE

UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS

need more

CASH FOR SPRING BREAK?

Fz'm'.r/yea’ excmzr? Before A/9ecza’z'77g /.20/726,
brzﬂgj/our books to #96 E/rod C ommom Atrium

(Walk away with up to 50% of the new price in CASH.)

5. the national champ, ns p.

tournament, buttheyfre doing well in it.
While the ‘ tournatnent doesn’t. necessar-

,ily represent the overall isiuccessfulness
M of a team or coirferenc

A '_t’s what mat-
ters when it co:

By Kyle Jaeger

STAFF WRITER
in 2014. The Elite 8 matchup between
Duke and Louisville is a preview ofthe
future strength of the conference, and
guarantees that an ACC team (in 2014)
will make the Final Four. Louisville is
the number one overall team in the tour-
nament, and Syracuse has reached the
Final Fou When you add these two su-
per pt rs to alist that alread, includes
UNC, Duke, Miami, and NC State, the
ACC becomes the best conference in

basketball, and a nightmare for out of

conference opponents.

CASH for your books!

Help W&L provide more used, lower priced books for future terms.

Buyback will be available in the Elrod Commons Atrium for 8 days!

Thursday & Friday, April 4 & 5. . . . . . . . .
Saturday, April 6. . . . . . . . . . .
Mondaythru Friday, April 8 —

12.

9 a.m. e 6 p.m.
 10a.m.—4p.m.
9 a.m. ——6p.m.

 

o it,—winning A

 

1o ‘- THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

sports

   

in the numbers

3

Brittney Griner became the first woman with three dunks in

a game. She slameed three hoem in Baylor’s game versus

Florida State in the NCAA Tournament. Baylor won 85-47.

11

The number of matches in a row that No. 2 Maria Sharapova ‘

has lost to No. 1 Serena Williams, a streak that has lasted.

over ten years. Williams bested Sharapova on Saturday in

the Sony Open 4-6, 6-3, 6-0.

31,419

The career points total for Wilt Chamberlain. Chamberlain

was fourth on the NBA all-time points list until Kobe Bryant

surpassed the total on Saturday. Topping the all-time list is

Kareem Abdul-Jabbar with over 38,000 points scored.

soapbox

“I have been so fortunate and blessed in
my life, and an opportunity to lead one of
the greatest programs in college basketball

history is a once-in—a—lifetime. ”

-slnvaAlfordafterslgnlng1nbecomeUclA’srIowhead

baslratbalIooachonSauirtlqy.Afawdqlsearllorheslmed
a10yaardealwlu1NewModoo,but|smlmlnbuyhlmself
otrtofthocontraet.UOLAwlllnothelphlmwllhthobI1yout,

fmmSl.oom

“The bones 6 inches out of his leg and
all he’s yelling is, ‘Win the game, win the
game’. /’ve not seen that in my life... Pretty

special young man.”

-LoulsvIlleheadbaskatbaIlooachRlolrPltlnoabout¢uard
Kevin llhra. Warabrokahlslowarleglntwospotsln
Sundqy'sNcMToumamentpmobetwaenloulsvllloand
Dule. Loulsvlllewantontowlntheﬁme85-63.

Senior Hayden

hlete o theek

 

Baseball

White won
his 13th
consecutive
tennisvmatch
on Sunday.

— White

defeated
Robert
Kjellberg

to help
Washington
and Lee defeat
No. 16 North
Carolina

 Wesleyan 7-2.

 

vs. Eastern Mennonite 4 pm

Womerfs lax takes

two, im

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

9%’

~«_

Junior Margaret Klein looks to shoot in the General’s victory

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Men lose  
ranked Hornets in OT   "

By Leigh Dannhauser
STAFF warren

The men’s lacrosse team fell in overtime
versus Lynchburg last Wednesday, in a re-
match of last year’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference ﬁnals.

The Generals took a 4-0 lead over the eighth-
ranked Hornets in the second quarter thanks to
two goals from senior Mac Means. After ju-
nior Joe Wood’s second goal ofthe night with
8:26 remaining in the third quarter the Gener-
als led 7-1. ' .

The Hornets worked their way back into the
game by the end of third quarter, closing the
gap to 8-3.

Senior Joe LaSala takes the ball away from the Viginia Wesleyan offense

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Tuesday

 
 

Hﬁl

Wednesday

vs Averett 3 pm

Lynchburg then scored ﬁve unanswered
goals in the fourth quarter to force the game
into overtime where they were able to keep
the Generals at bay and earn the victory.

The Generals were able to come back from
the tough loss when they defeated" Virginia
Wesleyan 16-11 on Saturday.

Washington and Lee was losing 3-1 early in
the game ‘before scoring six unanswered goals
over the ﬁrst and second quarters.

The Generals took a 9-5 lead into the half
that they never relinquished. The Marlins
staged a late comeback with a 4-0 run in the

  

ah- ‘.E;

Thursday

proves to 5-6

The women’s lacrosse team took two big ODAC
wins this week when they beat previously undefeated
Randolph-Macon 13-7 on Tuesday and Lynchburg 12-
10 on Saturday in overtime. ‘

The Generals started off their. week with a strong
win over Randolph-Macon on Tuesday. They started
off quickly and scored three unanswered goals by Carly.
 Taglienti, Margaret Klein, and Katie Hagen. Meade

 Brewster had three goals and one assist. The team was
A‘ successful on over 75% of their clear attempts and had
14 draw controls. Before their loss to W&L, the Yellow
Jackets were 8-0, 3-0 ODAC.

On Saturday the Generals took on longtime rivals
Lynchburg. The Generals went back and forth with the
Hornets exchanging goals. Lynchburg was able to tie
things up at ten all when they scored what would be
their final goal with 36 seconds left in the second half.
Taglienti and Annie Murphy both added scores in over-
time, and Cara Mulligan’s two saves were enough to
preserve the Generals lead. Klein had a big game with
four goals, four ground balls, and three caused turnovers
for the Generals.

The team returns to the ﬁeld on Wednesday, April
3rd, when they travel to Shenandoah for a game under
the lights at 7 p.m.

 
  

against Lynchburg.

fourth quarter but the Generals scored two
goals of their own take control and seal the
victory.

The game was a team elfort, with seven

Generals scoring two goals each. Means, fel-‘

low senior Luke Heinsohn, juniors Jack Re-
uter and Tim Werner, and sophomores Cam-
eron Dabir, Garrett Paglia, and Tyler Goldman
each tallied two goals.

The Generals take the field next when they
host ODAC opponent Bridgewater on April 3
at 7pm.

on Wednesday.

  

Saturday

  
 
   
    
 
     
       
       
      
 
   
   
 
    
  
 

 
    

Men's Lacrosse

vs Bridgewater 7 pm

women’s Lacrosse

at Shenandoah 7 pm

Riding

ODAC Championships

. .

 

   

 

37 3 . 755
R552.
V. I i 5
r“‘.0 . 2 0

 
    

WASHINGTON AND Liar UNIVERSITY   «

I S I
. MONDAY,ltl 013 BY THE STUDENTS AND FORSTHE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEOXV||,NUMBER20

insil-SK ZI)¢:vv:I:'.|.to  

  , D — V  .

ommu . um mm

news | 3

Students are
“Boston Strong”

Students across the coun-
trfy take action in su port
0 the bombing inci ents
in Boston.

 

   
  

   
   

  
 

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF warren

  
   

    

Several W&L students opt
out of classes for spring
0 term by spring option— 4%;
ing. See how students are '
spending their spring op-

tion this term.

go social

  
 
  

 

Friend us on
Faoebook!

K .

 
 
 
 
   

@ringtumphi

 

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

     
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

   

     

Facebook with \“
\t\\39 Challenging
' at d d
. I s. I S
 stpicture
0pinions...5 ,
Ans &ufe___6 I 0 . _ g ‘ n  _ é ‘_ H   V g V _ We’9«L semor exposes a
spo,._.,___g -  T V g  2,  __ ~  _ . - V.    frustrated zmage of Afrzca m
 e T ’  ‘      ‘_  s so -A 1 Western Media
.  ‘ A 0'. N V S . ,  .  ' . V  .  :5‘ By Andrea Owen
X Wednesday ' ‘ ‘  STAFF WRITER
partly cloudy ’ Atrica’s image in Westem media needs to be I
0 0 , challenged, said sophomore jOLlI'I’1al1SI11 major Waringa
'  I  .- Kamau in her 10-minute documentary.
 Kamau, who grew up in Kenya, wrote and narrated
‘ the documentary, “Africa in Western Media,” for her
Thursday ‘ = , V , . ~  - Race, Religion, and Media class last term. The video
MOSH)’ Sunny . has gotten over 2,000 views on YouTube since being
49 0. 710 ' ~ uploaded about three weeks ago.
At the beginning of the video, Kamau said she has
. been fortunate to be able to travel across Africa.
Friday “The Africa that I have grown to love and call home
7» g pa c|oudy ,__ is beautiful, bursting with cultural diversity, and it has a
. ” guy 0  Promising future,” she said.
49 '  But she said that the image of Aﬁica in Western
, media is predominantly negative.
, . g __ i . Saturday  A‘f:1Isike  Aﬁiclans, I am frutszatedkt/>y tthe way
i '  '- - ica an 1 peop e are presen e in es em onns
s '  S‘ 0 Mosuy cloudy of media,” she said. “Africans are always starving and
- 53 0_  0 dying and caught up in never—ending war.”
_W_ in the film, Kamau asked Washington and Lee
d , students to describe how they think Africa is portrayed

8”” 0)’ , in newspapers and television.

Few Showers ' , ‘ , p _ ‘_ y  Students mentioned starving children, AIDS,

1 4 0 0 ' animals, the savanna, hot weather,‘mosqu_ito nets,
4 4 4 54 '  .     8 poverty; and poor education.
. _ _ _ _ However, Kamau said in an interview that not all
Monday . &L_ Men’sér%n_nIs;|:s %n|;aA<():f tltrle ma_ny tﬁamsgthat taghigéed sticcgsslfugl refsulttis in 0DA(c:l’s. Men's Students beiievethese gtereotypm ’
enms WOI1 - In e C amplons ID 8 ams fl ewa 6|‘ 0 e e 0|‘ 9 SGCOI1 CONSECU-
3h0We|'S ive season this Sunday. Photo courtesy of generalssports.com. V continued on page 2

 

53°-72°  

  

 

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

M 0 N DAY, APRIL 29, 2013

 

Prospective students get a glimpse

ByYejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

if

'-. " '  ' "-'.«.,ow_ .4-....;.A<-. _, _
- wot; ...».....a.... . ,
rut,-nuelnownznvo . _. .

=4’ """“"“"*f1='VI2o-nnv:r.v'vy1- . _
.. .,-,... « .,_ _ v

. «z ,....,.,'.“,



 

 

Admitted students and their families got a full tour of the W&L campus last Wednesday.

EANKIIVM / staff writer

 

Washington and Lee University was
ﬂooded with prospective students this

. past Wednesday.

According to Chris Browning, an
admissions counselor, 211 accepted
students were welcomed to campus. In-
cluding their families, over 500 visitors
were on campus that day.

Visitors came from 30 different
states, as well as the District of Colum-
bia. However, exact statistics will not be
available until later this summer, as the

, Ofﬁce is “still in the process” of admit-
. ting students, according to Mr. Brown-

mg.
The day included a continental
breakfast, followed by an introduction
to W&L with Dean of Admissions and
Financial Aid William M. Hartog and
President Ruscio.

Various panels addressed questions
not answered during the introduction
and student life presentation. A lun-
cheon was served on Canaan Green,
allowing students and their families
to bask in the sunshine and beauty of
W&L’s campus.

The admitted students experienced a
student activities presentation followed
by tours of all residence halls. The vari-
ous academic departments also had open
houses.

While Accepted Students’ Day is
held mostly for students in closer prox-
imity, current W&L students also hosted
students from states that were further
away.

Jacob Strauss, a ﬁrst-year student,
hosted two students, one from Dallas,
Texas and one from Colorado Springs,
Colo. “They’re both trying to decide be-
tween W&L and one other comparable
school, so I tried to just be honest and
straightforward about the school.” he
said.

First-year Joy Putney had an accepted
student from California. “She was look-
ing at the same program I’m in, and I re-
ally love the program so of course I tried
to sell it to her,” she said. Presenting a
full picture of W&L also meant that both
hosts took their students out.

8’née/eotilii 

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join us for one of our ALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday- Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday& Sunday6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm

Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu online

 

   Find us on Face book

 

Breaking the Bank

By Rachel Adams—Heard
STAFF WRITER

While the Washington and Lee
Spring Break week is free of academic
pressures, the travel culture brings a ﬁ-
nancial stressor.

W&L students ventured near and far
for their 2013 spring break. Many stayed
within the country, renting houses in
Georgia, Alabama and Florida, while
others ventured to Cabo San Lucas and
Punta Cana. One thing all these trips
had in common, however, was a price.

Senior Caki Buckthal was one of the
more adventurous travelers this spring
break. She, along with over 100 other
W&L seniors, ﬂew to Punta Cana in
the Dominican Republic for a round-
trip price of $550, not including the $60
worth of gas it took to get to the Dulles
Airport in Washington, D.C. Once they
arrived, the cost of staying at the all-in-

$1”

 

clusive resort amounted to $554 per per-
son. When factoring in $50 for airport
food, Buckthal spentjust over $1200 on
her senior spring break trip. _

While upperclassmen tend to choose
more expensive and exotic locations for
their ﬁnal undergraduate spring break,
ﬁrst-years and sophomores look domes-
tically when picking the perfect spring
break spot.

First-year Hays Cochran organized
her sorority pledge class’ trip to Gulf
Shores. For their beachfront property
that housed 40, each person paid $357.
Cochran collected an additional $30 for
a community food fund, which paid for
meals the pledge class cooked together.
The steepest price was gas for the 827

miles from Lexington to Gulf Shores,-

which amounted to almost $500 for Co-

chran and her friends to take a fellow
sorority sister’s car.

An alternative to the relaxing and
sandy break spent by many W&L stu-
dents was the Reformed University Fel-
lowship’s trip to Chicago to help Sun-
shine Gospel Ministries and their ﬁght
against poverty.

First-year Payson Miller paid an
initial cost of $540, which included a
place to stay at one of Sunshine’s facili-
ties and most of his food. Miller said he
spent an additional $60 on food and $10
on souvenirs for a total cost of $610.

“Even though it was comparable in
price to a beach trip, I got the added
beneﬁt of personal growth and serving
others,” said Miller.

» HANNAH MELKUN / photographer

   

,7
1‘

 

 

L.

 

  

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

Unitin

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

   

On the days following April 15, it
was nearly impossible to tune into any
news source that wasn’t talking about
the bombings at the Boston Marathon.
The nation was on high alert as people
across the country anxiously watched
thestory unfold..

The immediate coverage of every
new detail in the crisis pinpointed the
w_ay that news and media have evolved.
Information poured in from every pos-
sible source. Regular people, notjust of-
ﬁcials, got involved with the reporting
process, giving the situation an; interac-
tive element.

Washington and Leejoumalism pro-
fessor Claudette Artwick said, “Instead
of having th_e authorities of the main-
stream media conveying their expert
knowledge, coverage of an event like
Boston is becoming more ofa conversa-
tion.” (A full reportof Artwick’s com-

ments can be found on the W&L web-
site.) ‘

Regardless of potential positive or
negative consequences of such quick
and interactive reporting, this change
in coverage style heavily impacted the

. la‘  »  ,.
break at the time of the bombing. Many
were frantically checking to see if their
friends were safe not by going to news
sources but by searching for Facebook
or Twitter updates.

The use of social media in report-

“I think so many people wanted to help because it hit so

close to home for a lot of us. I was so shocked when I

ﬁrst heard. It could have been me there.

LILLIE JOHNSTON ‘16

way in which students across the coun-
try heard about and responded to the
bombings.

Many students ﬁrst heard about
the attack through some kind of social
media. This was particularly true for
W&L students, who were on spring

ing also gave students a way to quickly
organize and respond. Despite campus
shut downs at many of the major univer-
sities in the Boston area, students joined
together to do what they could.

‘W&L ﬁrst-year Lillie Johnston said:
“It was incredible to see how so many

communities came together to support
the city. All ofthe efforts and responses
of such a large number of people made
me really proud to be a Bostonian.”

Two students from Boston Col-
lege organized- an event called “Boston
Marathon: The Last Five” that will be
held on May 3 to provide support for
the community and to gather donations.
It started as a small event publicized on
Facebook and already has over 18,000
planning to attend.

Boston University created a scholar-
ship to honor a student who was killed
in the bombings. In addition, one ofthe
fraternities at BU changed their annual
laser tag tournament to a fundraiser for
Boston.

Students everywhere joined in the
media conversation by posting on Face-
book and Twitter with updates, support
statements and personal responses to the

g after Boston bombings

situation. ,

Students at the University of Kansas
started an online fundraising campaign
to assist victims of the explosion. Com-
munity runs are also being set up across
the country to show support for all in-
volved with the Boston Marathon and to
gather funds. These runs will be held at
the University of Massachusetts, Syra-
cuse University, the University of South
Carolina and other universities.

At ‘W&L, students who are from the
Boston area promoted the sale of “Bos-
ton Strong” t-shirts. The phrase has
become a sort of rallying cry for all of
those affected by the attack.

“I think so many people wanted to
help because it hit so close to home for
a lot of us,” said Johnston. “I was so
shocked when l ﬁrst heard. It could have
been me there.”

' STAFF WRITER

Devastation continues in Texas

By Randy Karlson

~* a .
.n

-.p.

Explosions at a fertilizer plant in the small town of West, Texas killed 14 people and injured about 200.

Explosions at a fertilizer plant dev-
astated the town of West, Texas on April
17.

The_blast killed 14 people and injured
an additional 200. The event closely fol-
lowed the Boston Marathon bombings
on April 15. _

West is a small town 70 miles south
of the Dallas-Fort Worth area, and about
20 miles north of Waco,‘ Texas. It has a
population just fewer than 3,000 people
and is part of McLennan County.

The West Fertilizer Plant exploded at
around 8 p.m. and was caused by a ﬁre
that started around 7:30 p.m. on April
17. Though the source of the. explosion
is known, the cause of the ﬁre is not and
is still under investigation. The explo-
sion shook houses over 50 miles away
and registered a 2.1-magnitude earth-
quake by the U.S. Geological Survey.

Oﬂicials from the Safety Engineer-
ing Network based out of Milford, Ohio
said that a possible cause of the ﬁre is a

substance called ammonium nitrate that
was stored in the West Fertilizer Plant
in excess of 270 tons. This substance is
explosive when mixed with a ﬂammable
substance and exposed to a ﬂame, and
was used in the Oklahoma City bomb-
ing in 1995.

ProPublica reports that the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Administration
had not inspected the plant since 1985
and the plant’s owners had not reported
how much possibly ﬂammable fertil-

izer they housed to the Department of
Homeland Security. This raises many
questions about whether the plant was
operating under safe conditions and if
the ammonium nitrate was housed safe-
ly.

Even though there are many ques-
tions about the speciﬁcs of the explo-
sion, there has been an incredible out-
pouring of support for the victims and
the entire town of West during this tough
time. The close proximity to the Bos-

ton Bombing brought the United States
together in a somber reﬂection and this
was expressed throughout many memo-

rials and tributes in Texas and the rest of

the country.

President Obama spoke at the West,
Texas memorial service. “You have been
tested. West,” he said. “You have been
tried. You have gone through ﬁre. But
you are and always will be surrounded
by an abundance of love.”

Obama spoke of the resilience of

West and America as a whole. “America
needs towns like West,” he said. “That’s
what makes this country great, is towns
like West.”

Not only did President Obama sup-

port the victims ofthe explosion, but lo-
cal sports teams like the Texas Rangers
and Dallas Stars also gave support. The
Rangers collected relief supplies at the
gate of their game against the Los Ange-
les Angels on April 23 as well as money
throughout the course of the game from
fans and the Texas Ranger Baseball
Foundation, raising over $40,000.

The Dallas Stars Foundation raised
over $3,000 during their game against
the Vancouver Canucks on April 22.

This explosion also affected

lives at Washington and Lee due to our
school’s large Texas population. Many
students reside in Dallas, just 70 miles
north of the affected area, including Hal
Hundley.
‘ Hundley was home in Dallas when
the explosion happened. “I was stunned
when I heard about it,” said Hundley.
“Mostly just hard to hear that happened
in such close timing to the Boston Mara-
thon bombings. I don’t know anyone af-
fected and I don’t have family out there
luckily, but it was just mostly a stunning
thing to hear about.”

 

 

   
  

mtg-.\-'1"-t-,’2_:.€=‘,! ‘E’ l-l’-‘H’-“.4i‘.l-‘<Y
 ._  8-. LEE ti3\3liIEli3iTY
LE1..;.?-Zf‘~i"L7i~5, W 24'-450

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

my 032013

I1 GWS H

 

Continued,

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

“At this college, people are smart,
so some of them do know that’s not the
reality,” she said. “It was pleasant to
know that people know about the nega-
tive image, but not all of them think that
that’s actually what’s there.

In the ﬁlm, African students de-
scribed some of the stereotypes they
have experienced in America towards
Afr'ica and its people.

“One time, someone asked me if
people from Nigeria lived in trees,” said
ﬁrst-year Honor Oghosa of Nigeria.

Similarly, sophomore Emmanuel
Abebrese of Ghana said that a camp
counselor once asked him if he had ever
eaten zebra meat.

Abebrese added that someone once
assumed he had to have learned all his
English in the United States rather than
in Africa.

“But we have good schools in Gha-
na, and that is where I learned most of
my English,” he said.

Kamau said in the ﬁlm that positive
stories about Africa are omitted from
Western media.

“Stories about Africans doing nor-
mal things like setting fashion trends and
making progressive political policies do
not receive much coverage,” she said.
“Instead, the media gravitate towards
those stories that reiterate the image of
Africa as the ‘dark continent’...Imagine
if African media only told Africans of
the shootings in Newtown, Chicago, and
Virginia Tech.”

Abebrese said he would like to -see
new images of Africa in the media.

“I’d like to see images about dance,

from

In

“Like many Africans, I am frustrated by the way Africa and its people are presented

in Western forms of media. ’

WARINGA KAMAU ‘13

J

 

I’d like to see images about cultural ar-
tifacts, images of history,” he said. “I’d
like to see images of technological ad-
vancements. I’d like to see images of
children having fun, not children starv-
ing, not children so close to death, but
children happy.”

Senior journalism major Papa Osei,
a native of Ghana and the producer and
editor of the video, said he partially

understands why the negative images

dominate, although he would like to see
a more balanced representation of the
country. 4

“Especially after [myjournalism pro-
duction class] I understand why, because
no one cares ifa billionaire from Nigeria
opened up a new business,” he said. “It’s
not newsworthy to the market in Ameri-
ca. . .but sometimes they need to balance
it out.”

“Challenging a depressed picture”

In the .video, Kamau also speculated
that the lack of positive coverage of Af-
rica could be due to the commercializa-
tion of news and that negative stories are
more popular with the public.

But Osei said he has seen an im-
provement in the past few years, not
necessarily in daily news but in features
or special segments, in which reporters
go to African countries and cover good
things. However, these reports should be
more prominent, he said.

Kamau said in the video that she
thought Africans should take more ac-
tion to change the perception of their
country in the West.

I She said that Africans are using so-
cial media to challenge stereotypical im-
ages that make Western headlines, but
that this initiative should be stronger.

Kamau said that she wants to help
start up a cable news channel that helps
Africans tell their stories.

And Kamau and other students are
already spreading awareness about Afri-
can culture on the W&L campus as part
of the African Society. This organiza-
tion of African and non-African students
celebrates African culture on campus
through events like African Cultural
Day.

Kamau emphasized the need to take
action to challenge the stereotypical im-
age of Africa.

“We can’t just sit and hope that may-
be one day a more balanced picture will
emerge,” she said.

Africana Studies minor o

By Krysta Huber
5 TA F F w R l T E R
In an effort to provide a more global

education of African studies at Wash-

ington and Lee University, the African-
American studies minor has been re-
placed with Africana studies.

Beginning in the fall of 20l3,'stu-
dents wishing to minor in Africana stud-
ies will enroll in courses that have an
international focus on the subject mat-
ter. French Professor Mohamed Kamara
said that the new version of the minor

expands its study of African culture be-
yond US borders.

“The African-American studies mi-
nor was originally restrictive,” Kamara
said. “The Africana studies minor is all-
inclusive.”

In addition to examining the Af-
rican-American experience, the Afri-
cana studies minor will cover the Afri-
can continent, the African experience
in Latin American countries and the

WASHINGTON AND IEE UNIVERSITY

TUM PHI.

' EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is t

students, faculty, parents and
I deeper into news affecting ca
accountable. Through our rep

prompts c

THE RING—TUM PHI is publis
undergraduate school year.
member of The Media Board,
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all le
to edit submissions for conte

advertising do not necessarily

court definitions of ii

LEXINGTON, VIR
TELEPHONE: (54

EMAIL: PH|@

TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for

discussions that lead to discovering information that

mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE

RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

FAX: (540) 458-4059

SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA .I. KORASH-SCHIFF

RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
HENDLEY BADCO-CK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO

HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER

RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

ANDREA OWEN
KRISTINA SEON

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

he mission of THE RING-

alumni. Our goal is to look
mpus life and hold leaders
orting, we aspire to spark

hange.

hed Mondays during the
THE RING—TUM PHI is a
which can be reached at
tters. We reserve the right
nt and length. Letters and
reflect the opinion of THE

be! and obscenity.

GINIA 24450
0) 458-4060

WLU.EDU

greater'African Diaspora, which is any
given time throughout African history.

Politics Professor Tyler Dickovick.
who teaches African politics, said that a
major effort in changing the minor is to
show students the links between differ-
ent areas of the subject matter.

“Part of the idea behind the program
is to illuminate the connections between
the African-American experience, Africa
itself and the African diaspora broadly,"
Dickovick said. “The African-American
perspective is still central to the pro-
gram, just supplemented by the Inore
global element.”

While adopting a global perspective
of Africana studies is signiﬁcant to re-
designing the minor, both Kamara and
Dickovick cited several other reasons for
the change. Both agreed that increased
student demand and increased interest
among professors have made the new
approach possible. I

“We have long had many strong fac-
ulty in African-American studies and
more recently we have expanded the
number of faculty interested in African
studies,” Dickovick said. “As the facul-
ty have offered Inore courses on Africa,
students have been better able to pursue

' those interests in the curriculum.”

Kamara said that the new approach
to the program would remind the W&L
community of its strong ties to African
studies. A

"ers a broad perspective

“Part of the idea behind the program is to illuminate the

connections between the Aﬁrican-American experience,
Africa itself and the African diaspora broadly. ”

TYLER DICKOVICK, Professor of Politics

“Many people don‘t realize that Wil-
liam Morrison was a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee," he said. “Morrison,
who lived in the Congo, is considered
to be one of the very ﬁrst human rights
activists for Africa. There is a plaque
hanging in Lee Chapel in his honor.”

The altered minor lends itselfto new
courses. One new course. AFCA I30:
Introduction to Africana Studies, will be
required of all students minoring in Afri-
cana Studies. Students will learn about
the major issues, debates and events that
have affected and continue to affect peo-
ple ofAfrican descent.

Courses that fulfilled requirements
for the African-American studies minor
will continue to be taught. The courses
cover a wide range ofdisciplines includ-
ing art, history, literature, politics, soci-
ology and music.

Though it has not oﬁicially been add-
ed to the course catalog, a new course
being developed by the history depart-
ment will study people of African de-

scent living in Latin America. He said
he anticipates that the course will be of-
fered in 2013.

Dickovick said he is hoping to per-
manently add his African Politics course
to the university catalog. In the past, he
has taught African Politics during a few
terms on campus and during springtenn
as study abroad programs in Ghana and
SenegaL

The faculty also hopes that the chang-
es to the minor will further increase in-
terest in African studies. Kamara said
that the faculty would not have pursued
any changes ifthey didn’t think students
would be interested.

Dickovick agreed that W&L has seen
a growth in the number of students inter-
ested in African studies. ~

“It seems to me there has been a dy-
namic. self—reinforcing cycleof student
and faculty interest that means the idea
of expanding into Africana studies is
now ripe.”

HOW MUCH DO YOU KNOW

ABOUT

.ﬂl.

 

   

 
 

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

opinions  

Sex in Lexz the power struggle of W&L’s hook-up culture

By Graham Colton
COPY EDITOR

 

Why do you have sex? Because
there’s nothing else to do when you and
she/he are drunk? Because it relieves
stress? To lose weight? Because it’s
pleasurable? To be pleased? To please
your partner?

But what should it be about? Each
other. I’m no six-star general, butI know
that sex should not be about what your
partner can do for you, but about how
you can bring pleasure to your partner.
Do you keep track of those with whom
you’ve fomicated? If I were sexually
active, I sure would. Why, you ask?
Because I, perhaps like you, view sex
not as a mutual communion of equally
autonomous individuals, but more as a
power play by which we gain a sense of
control over each other, having seen our
partner in her/his most vulnerable state

(of undress) and having had our way
with her/his most vulnerable body part
(her/his genitals). After intercourse, we
revel in the victor’s spoils, so to speak,
by telling others of our sexual ‘conquest.
At least I would. Anyway...

I believe that this fact says that I, as
an individual, am, by my very nature,
power hungry. Rather than seeking
the upper hand in sexual intercourse,
I ought to gain fulﬁllment from giving
my partner pleasure instead of receiv-
ing it. In the long term, I would actually
be more fulﬁlled than if I had received
more pleasure than I had given. If I
were an unselﬁsh sexual partner, then I
would ultimately not fornicate-and-tell.

Our so-called hookup culture — in
which self-interested individuals have
sex, in part, to gain power — might per-

petuate the high levels of sexual assault
we seem to experience. Non-monoga-
mous sex is, put bluntly, about power
and the demonstration thereof

Don’t you agree? I await the day
on which the commendable efforts of
l-in-4‘ pay off and rates of sexual assault
on this campus have fallen far below
the national collegiate average. When
women and men sit together at upper-
classman brunches (and elsewhere).
When “gender relations” is no longer a
buzz-phrase. When women won’t serve
food to men during Derby Days. I guess
I’m rambling.

In short, I urge you not to tell your
friends about what it was like with her/
him. A true gentleman, one such as R.E.
Lee, does not fomicate-and—tell.

Why has violence increased in America?

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

Unless you’ve been living under a
rock for the past few months, you’ve
been bombarded with news about the
gun control debate. Everyone and his
neighbor has an opinion about this topic,

and most people have stopped keeping-

their thoughts to themselves. But what if
gun control isn’t the real problem here?
What if, instead, all this talk about the
Second Amendment and background
checks is just a byproduct of a_larger is-
sue? ,

In the l980s and early 1990s, crime
rates spiked in almost" every major city
in America. Everyone has a different
explanation for why this happened. In
New York City, Los Angeles, and Mi-
ami, it was the “crack epidemic.” In
Chicago, it was a population problem.
Some people ‘say there wasn’t a strong
enough police presence. Others have
mentioned the economy. Not surpris-
ingly, a large crowd claimed that there
wasn’t enough regulation concerning
the sale ofﬁrearms.

And then, almost overnight, crime
rates quietly began to decline. Clinton
came out with a ban on assault weapons.
Reliance on prisons increased signiﬁ-
cantly. Drug markets began to change.
Incidents of violence plunged to histori-
cal lows, and have stayed relatively low

 

.y at » _«

ever since. '

However, experts now have reason to
believe that this trend might be chang-
ing. 2011 was the ﬁrst year since I993
that the year-to-year crime rate compar-
ison showed an increase, according to
the US Bureau oflustice Statistics. And
the main reason for the change? There
has been a surge in violent assaults.

lt’s easy to believe that violence is
becoming a progressively prominent is-
sue in America. In the past ﬁve months,
a school shooting in Newtown, Conn.
resulted in the death of 26 people, and
bombings in Boston killed three and
injured 260. Last year, the town of Au-
rora, Colo. was rocked by a mass shoot-
ing in a movie theater. In a university in
Oakland, Calif., a student stood up, told
his fellow classmates to line up against
a wall, and proceeded to execute seven
of them. At a high school in Chardon,
Ohio, a student killed three of his-peers.

When incidents like these occur
within such a small timeframe, you
begin to wonder what is triggering vio-
lence on such mass scales. Is it really
just that people have access to guns? Or
is there something else going on, caus-
ing Americans to act out in devastating
ways?

Several points have been made about

why there is an apparent increase in
violent crimes. Perhaps we simply have
more information about what’s happen-
ing around the country due to today’s
media coverage, and there really isn’t
that much of an increase at all. Perhaps
violent video games have seeped into
our systems and provoked us to act this
way. Perhaps it’s just a cycle, and, like
it did in the early ‘90s, crime rate will
once again decrease without any osten-
sible reason.

One thing that I’ve learned as a
psychology major is that the answer is
usually “it’s a little bit of everything.”
More often than not, it’s a combination
of many different factors that results in
any-one outcome. So while it’s tempt-
ing to point your ﬁnger at the latest Call
of Duty, or shake your head at the fact
that the news is giving way too much
attention to a situation which could eas-
ily be replicated by an attention-hungry
viewer, or demand that the government
crack down on weapon sales, the truth
is that it’s probably not any single as-
pect which is the root cause of this lat-
est trend. Rather, all of these things, and
many more, mos‘tTIik€ly contribute to
what we’ve seen ih in recent
months. " e“

That said, I’d like to propose a the-

 NBC (NEWS

 

From left to right, Tamerlan Tsarnaev (Boston bombing suspect), Eric Harris (Columbine shoote

 

if .

ory. Today, teens are more and more
isolated. Even when they’re together,
it’s common for people to be on their
phones, checking social media web-
sites and texting, completely caught up
in their own worlds. It’s so much easier
today to watch a movie on one‘s com-
puter rather than going out and social-
izing. It seems like most communication
is done via e-mail. This lack of connec-
tion to one another is becoming the new
norm. As a result, our ability to develop
relationships is being put at risk. Since
2007, the rate of diagnoses for disorders
such as autism and Asperger syndrome
has increased 72%. 15 million Ameri-
cans have been diagnosed with social
anxiety disorder. Depression has be-
come an epidemic. Bullying is the con-
stant nightmare of every school ofﬁcial,
as the Internet has made it both easy and
ubiquitous.

In short, a social numbness is spread-
ing across our country. Is it any surprise,
then, that people seem to have a snow-
balling knack for being so brutal towards
one another? The potential for someone
to feel ostracized, powerless, and unim-
portant is huge. Today, if someone feels
bullied by a particular group, they may
turn toward video games or television
shows, rather than returning to the social

-v

sphere. Most often, the person pictured
in the top right-hand comer of news
programs was the one who was isolated
from his peers. The shooting at Virginia
Tech in 2007 was perpetrated by a man
who had previously been described as
notoriously shy, largely due to the fact
that an anxiety disorder caused him to
have trouble speaking. One of the shoot-
ers who carried out the Columbine High
School massacre in 1999 was reported
to be suffering from depression; both
had been victims of bullying.

I don’t think that Facebook is to_
blame for the fact that more and more
students are standing up in the middle
of class and executing their neighbors;
rather, I think it is the changing culture
in America~one that allows for a per-
son to look at a computer screen for
days on end without a single social in-
teraction interrupting them—which has
contributed to a sense of isolation and
insigniﬁcance in today’s youth. This
powerlessness, I believe, has an im-
portant place amongst the contributing
factors that have led to so many recent
tragedies.

  

r), Dylan Klebold (Columbine shooter), T] Lane (Chardon, OH shooter),

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev (Boston bombing suspect), One L. Goh (oikos University shooter), James Eagan Holmes (Aurora shooting suspect), Seung-Hui Cho (Virginia Tech
shooter), Adam Lanza (Sandy Hook shooter) '

 

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

 

  arts&life

 

 

‘r 62.. ..a_.  .A ’,ﬁ. —‘|=‘K~.'{

Social media across Washington and
Lee has been ﬁlled with both pride and
rivalry from this past weeks annual
Derby Days. Every year, Sigma Chi
hosts Derby Days, where the sororities
compete against each other in various
events and activities, in hopes of coming
out on top.

From colorﬁrl banners hung in the
Commons, to Facebook proﬁle pictures
promoting each sorority, to personally
designed tanks, Derby Days receives
clear publicity around campus and
nationwide. Sigma Chi holds this
philanthropic event every year at a
number of universities, with the goal
of raising money for a wide variety
of charitable causes, ranging from
the Children’s Miracle Network to
Huntsman’s Cancer Institute.

This year’s Derby Days events
started on Tuesday at the Pole Houses
I with various relay races, including

  

.'¢"*"”"\‘-"¥£!..C' ' wt .: ts

  

 

  

water balloon tosses, tug-of-war, and
three-legged races. Wednesday marked
the annual cook-off and Thursday

and Friday got more heated with‘ ﬂag
football.

Throughout the week, each sorority
revolved its activities around a speciﬁc
theme.»'Chi Omega got creative with its
slogan, mocking a Jack Daniels bottle
design and incorporating their chapter
name. Kappa Kappa Gama used “Keep
Kalm and Derby On,” also integrating
its sorority’s Greek lettering. Kappa
Alpha Theta’s slogan was, “Forget the
Rest; Derby with the Best,” while Pi
BetavPhi had a country theme with a
cowboy hat as a ﬁnishing touch on its
banner.

Other sororities drew inspiration from
popular culture. Kappa Delta channeled.
the hit videogame with “Call of Derby,”
andAlpha Delta Pi created a campaign
around the television show “Game of

Wu

     

~15! . v ‘. ITf‘}n ‘Ru...

 ‘ '4' Thrones.”

;5-.

While the competition may get ﬁerce

 

   between sororities, with an injured ankle

already appearing alter Thursday’s
’ football games, participants seem to use
g this as a prime opportunity for pledge
class bonding.
’ ‘- “lt’s been a great way to bond as a
' ; pledge class, and I think it’s awesome
;‘_ to see so many people come together
_v.‘ for a good cause,” said ﬁrst-year Bailey
_j‘i Russell.
7 The hard work Sigma Chi put into
J ‘ these events, along with the overarching
driving force of philanthropy, kept this
competitiveness tamed in the minds of
many sorority ﬁrst-years. '_
“Overall, Derby Days has been a super
fun experience,” said ﬁrst—year Hadley
Edwards. “Although we got completely
dominated in football one day, Derby
Days brought about a competition‘
that fueled the ultimate goal of raising

p for charity. First-year women seemed

I classes to bond while helping a greater

  

Continued, from “Down to Derby?”

money for charity, and I feel like all of
the sororities along with Sigma Chi did
a greatjob of making this happen!”
Derby Days brought students together,

including males, from all around
campus to watch the games in action.
While ﬂag football is notoriously .
popular, dishes like Jack Daniels fudge,
burger sliders and Mexican foods from C.
Tuesday’s cook-off attracted others to "T
the events. The 2013 Derby Days were i
another success in entertainment and

enthused about their first experience
with the games. V
“Derby Days is a fun way for pledge

cause,” said ﬁrst-year Mary Elizabeth
Shutley. “It has been a great week and
you can tell all the Sigma Chis worked
really hard-to plan the event and make
sure everyone had a good time!”

  

I

     

Artist, activist... and pothead?

Visionary leader Cheech Marin shares his take on different paintings

Graham Colton
c 0 P Y E D I T o R

In a public lecture on Monday, April 22,
Cheech Marin discussed an exhibition
entitled, “Chicanitas: Small Paintings from
the Chwch Marin Collection,” on display
at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar
Gallery through May 24.

You may know Marin from Cheech &
Chong, the comedy duo of the 1970s and
‘80s premised on cannabis cravings. But
Cheech, it would seem, knows his way
arotmd the art scene. .

Since the 1960s, artistic expression has
been an important agent of political activism
for the Mexican-American community;
its members marginalized by both law
and custom in the United States. As
Chicano/a artists garnered public attention
and respect,»their works have moved from
the peripheries of the art world to more
naditional museum and gallery spaces while
continuing to embrace themes of heritage,
legacy and community.

According to Marin, Chicano was
originally “a derogatory term by Mexicans
to refer to other Mexicans living in the
United States.” More recently, however,

the tenn has become “less of an insult and
more of a description.” As such, “Chicano”
has been used to describe an emerging
subculture of artwork.
Throughout the exhibit, Marin presented
various interesting works. The first was
. Ricardo Ruiz’s La Envidiosa, roughly

translated to “the greedy woman.” In this
painting, what does the mamacita desire?
Well, she is looking at the devil at her right
ear, so this sexy, spicy Chicana — baring

her cleavage and pooﬁn’ up that hair —
seems, uh, estrous. The color red repeats
throughout the painting — e.g., her red dress,-
blush and earrings — suggesting that she is
in concert with the red devil, not the white
angel. And why, I ask, are her eyes so much
larger than her lips? Perhaps because she
looks at boys more than she kisses them.

Second, John \_/aladez’s La Butterfbz

features a gaunt, nearly emaciated woman
who looks at us with tired, heavily made-up
eyes. An actual-size butterfly is tattooed on
her stemum. In this all-too-real depiction,

I see a prostitute, marked by her pimp

by the tattoo, fatigued by her profession.

She wears a Jesus piece in hopes of being
forgiven for providing for her child by the
7 only means she believes she can. Her lips

are plump, plush and party to the sins of bad

men. She‘does not smile.
Third and ﬁnally, Yinais Tattoo, by Sonia
Romero. In this work, Romero tattoos a

cigarette on a woman’s lower jaw. By doing

so, she makes visible an addiction that the
woman would rather hide. Our addictions
or even our secret shortcomings, Romero
suggests, will manifest themselves in one
way or another. Our public image, no
matter how perfectly prepared or deceitﬁrl,
will inevitably crumble to show ourselves
for who we truly are. This woman is, I
believe, addicted to cigarettes, the harsh
realization of which has made a lump in
her throat. As a result, she has diﬁiculty
swallowing, or, metaphorically, facing
reality.
A stretch of analysis? Maybe, but the
. same message that uniﬁes the entire exhibit,

nevertheless, remains: I should act with
the foreknowledge that who I truly am will
come to light.

 

  

 

MONDAY, APRIL 29,2013

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI *

 

°    arts&|ife  

True Life: I amTaking Spring

By Athena Cao , I
5 TA F F w R I T E R
From writing a ukulele album to preparing
for graduate school to simply relaxing, more
than 40 percent of seniors have chosen
Spring Option this year. These soon-to—be
graduates have opted to spend their last
Spring Term free from the constraints of
Washington and Lee University courses in
order to pursue personal goals.
. According to University Registrar
Supervisor Scott Dittman, a total of 221
students have declared to take Spring Option
up until last Thursday. Among the 173

seniors who constitute this number, some
are preparing for graduate school and/or
seeking employment, while some are ﬁnally
realizing a dream that they have never been

, able to pursue during school, and of course,
there are others who simply want to sit back
and enjoy their “last tree month.”

"‘A lot of people get this idea that [taking
spring option] is just ﬁrn, hanging out, going
out, going down the Maury,” said senior
Taylor Gilﬁllan. “Yes, some people might

do that, but for other people, it’s trying to get

to

ready for the real world.”
Gilﬁllan has a lot to do before he moves

down to Houston, Texas, for Teach

For America after graduation. He has
committed to teach at Sunnyside High
‘School for the next two years, but he plans
to stay there for even longer, said Gilﬁllan.
Besides getting his teacher’s certiﬁcate,
Gilﬁllan will also need to pick up his
Spanish skills, since Surmyside students
are predominantly Hispanic and African-
American. With the amount of work he '
-« 'r."n‘ = '-= _ , It .

7

    

    
 

   

said, he would not be able to take a course
this Spring Term.

“Spring Term is invaluable in my opinion
for people in my situation,” Gilﬁllan said. “I
know a lot of the other Teach For America
people here at W&L are doing the same
thing [Spring Optioning] for the same
reason.”

.. While Gilﬁllan is preparing for the real
world, fellow senior James Grasso is seizing
his last few days in college. With his two
friends, junior Kane Thomas and senior
Michael Novack, Grasso plans to spend his
Spring Tenn writing and recording a ukulele
album. '

‘‘I signed up for a class initially, and then
I realized that I am never going to have this
opportunity to spend four weeks to pursue
one thing [again],” Grasso said. “This is
kind of like my June because I start work,
like 20 days after graduation.”

According to Dittman, W&L started to
allow students to take Spring Option in
2009, and the number of students who
' declare the option has increased sharply
from 24 in 2010 to more than 200 this year.
.. Spring Term used to be six weeks long
— and students were required to take two
courses, but in 2010, the university decided
to increase the intensity of Spring Term
courses and shorten the semester to four
* weeks. Dittman said it was partly because
some faculty decided not to teach, or only
teach one Spring Ternr course, after the
". required faculty course load dropped from
7 12 courses to 11 courses for every two-year
’ period in 2006.

‘ “We were concemed about [not] being
able to offer enough courses that would give
every student a chance to take a course,”
Dittman said. “And we were hearing from
_ students, ‘we have an opportunity from this
V advantage here, we can start our summer
jobs, internships... whatever, in April, and
get a whole month ahead of most other
institutions.’”

Last week, junior Trey Hatcher started
3 his internship at J .P. Morgan in New York
3 City. Hatcher and two other juniors, Kip
Landry and Max F arrington, are working
as summer analysts in Investment Banking.
Among the over 100 interns coming from
all across the country, these three W&L
students are the only ones who were able
to start early and therefore increase the
duration of the 10-week internship up to

Senior Taylor Gilfillan isspen -

C He is also working  anoither,  «

 

morrg1arr:_ci.saying golodbye to every

with the‘M,ot_e.M,a-rine

Junior Shawn Swaney decided tor , , V A ,
bioiogy with hands-on

Laboratory in Florida. This programrﬁit
activities and» interactions, taking his.

 

1 has to complete before graduation, Gilﬁllan

Option

0 Nope, it is‘ not just about partying and tubing down the Maury. Students choose to Spring Option for a variety of reasons

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
 

  

16 weeks, Hatcher said. Ultimately, their
outstanding performance this summer could
win them full-time offers from J .P. Morgan.
Hatcher said the internship is tough but
worth it.

“We are working up to 100 hours a week,”
Hatcher said. “It’s a very intense experience
to set up your ﬁre—so to speak—but that’s
really how you want to learn and get your
hands dirty, early and whatnot”

While there are many beneﬁts to taking
Spring Option, there are certain tradeoﬂs
too. Perhaps the biggest tradeoif is missing
the opportunity to take an inspiring class.
Dittrnan gave some examples.

‘‘[I would take] any of them,” he said.
“[Like] the one last year, [when] Jim Warren
taught about whaling in Moby—Dick, and
they went up to the whaling museum in
New England. I mean, have you really
looked at the courses that are being offered‘?
The casino accounting one just sounds
fascinating; I’d like to know more about the
auto industry; [Econ 244] is going today to
Detroit; Professor Merchant is taking people
to civil war battle ﬁelds. . .”

Despite the vast array of classes,
some students use Spring Option as an
opportunity to take their education to the
next level, by enrolling in classes not offered
by the University. Junior Shawn Swaney,
for instance, will learn more about marine
biology as he intems at the Mote Marine
Laboratory, a prestigious lab in Sarasota,

F la. According to Swaney, the Marine
Stock Enhancement and Aquaculture
Program allows him to learn something that
W&L does not offer.

“[Marine biology] is something that is
not offered strongly at W&L,” Swaney
said. “While people are doing Washington
Term or taking a geology class, there wasn’t
anything like that for me on campus. So I
decided to pursue [an option] off campus. ”

Clearly, students make the decision to
Spring Option for a wide variety of reasons.
No matter what these reasons are, Grasso
said, a plan will be helpful.

“I would recommend everybody [who is]
taking spring option to conre in with a plan,”
Grasso said. “It’s nice to just hang out and .
party and relax with a ﬁiend, but if you have
one thing that you try to accomplish by the
end of the option, you can really make your
Spring Term a lot more meaningful.”

  

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, APRIL 29,2013

  

 

 
 

    
   
  
   

l" the nllmbele W ’ L t G if d
2 8 W&L takes down the "top-ranked seed en route to the ODA C title game
By Hendley Badcock . V
3 TA F F w R l T E R .
The number of games in a row that W&L sophomore Drew our - - ~ -
With win after win after win, the ~ _ ,, ~ v - I ~ V  “ls:/Emma eglrsllterﬂ: Seasimi L hb
. . , . - - - j‘ In I v--r--r ’«--‘H’ . erour ains c wewere
Weprinsky had hit In after Saturday s loss to Hampden- vV3’(:)irsI::’gSt<]>2Il1C%r1(I)1;lS te in « I  if  excited about thegoveminge win big: weuklngew we
sydney ended the Generals’ season the Old Dominion Athletic Conf§r:nce  5 iii;-Iiffiiffrlgrrzrrrr ' ﬂ ll ' 1 °°”ld Play berrer ‘hen we r‘ ” Waxter Sale “We
I ,, Tournament Championships this Saturday. l =' *7»!'!§A‘.f5T;§’ I 1.5’ if Jr 1'’: :3   Went into [lasl Wedr‘eSdeY’5l ganle really tlylng_t°
 Samrdayﬂhe Generals defeatedtop f‘ .7  ,v,p‘.r-r='ff';’:”.r ﬁﬁgwi clegn upktline little things likelcatchingandthrowmg
 dedc .lf d. h ODAC .ﬁ 1, .. - _;_. ,1” viii‘  _ -_-gr)‘ ,,zf,g ; an wo gmoreco esivey.
9 }::l3_ U1 or mt e , gem] nas ,‘T,:'r‘”" 9" lw l _ -. “ , ‘'°' ‘‘ " ‘I Teamdynamicshasplayedahugeroleinthe
 W&L gained an 8_5 lead by the second  1., g ' '_ Generals’ rise to success andtthheir current peak.
The number of games in the Big Ten’s football season start-  Ultimately Pulled 014 the el0Se '1   1 "  .;- be:1El:c:::i:ll;:f/Sgrgfiillelhviiloli23:11:/ltzaglﬁogslgjgo .
ing this fall. The conference will be divided into two divi- l The Generals. Were C0T1r1<lenrg0lng into ll .  - our Selllslllless and act as °lle.llllll’” ﬁlSl'yeal.Meg
; the game after their previous win against fl  I .-/l Pascale Sa1<l- We have done just that  I think
sions East and West The East division will host five games I Lynchburg and their 0Verall record °f  I ' V 3' It has made aposmve Impact on our ablhty to play
’ ' tl ‘ — " r ‘ V r to ether.”
:13-9. 'iI"J'Il'll.I_ " I‘ 3 . . .
during the even-numbered seasons and the West division 5 “When both sides of the ﬁeld are playing T J W T E T T .l H T I i H Tlleioldel playels exlllblled lllls example
their best lacrosse and working together, 3 esileclfllly to the younger Women‘
will host five games during the odd-numbered seasons start- we 3r e an UnSt0PPable team,”j1lI1l0r 0liVe We V6 asked a lot Oflhe lmderclasslnen and
I Waxter said. “We are playing our best Illeyﬂllle rfgly sletppedgrl and are Slamllg to Come
. . 1 uh t- nan A - oge er, rewsersai.
mg m 2016' s:‘;(E)Srfe:,\flhiC}::irsn‘l::,1;na:P]:),teaItntl1:):):; gctlrr” A lot of time and practice kept the Generals
A ' Junior Captain Meade Brewster agreed focused and working to succeed all throughout the
- that the Generals were “on the up.” Seflsoll , _ ,
“There,-S no better time for a team to As a freshman it was hard tojoina new team
peak than during toumamem play and gill Ofltl€Wtg1rlSt,hbUt.0uﬂI;g(t))Ee1lS.f0r'l.l'Ili:)6aS§;11 _d 
The total number of titles that fifth-ranked tennis player We’fe deinglust That” Brewster Said “gl/llilladlls 0g]: Stlaitll E lgllllllllg’ as ehsald'
Nonetheless, the Generals expected t 6 3 lg‘: y nﬁzll p liylllg some Vely al
Rafael Nadal has won after taking the Barcelona Open on GUllf0Fd W0uld notbe defeated easily eilgls la 6 (rlflll C0 eflllcei d d
“They have some very strong attackers _ ul our pe, Olmallce as lmplove an_ we
Sunday and are V60, physical,” Waxter Said _A V [were] all excited to get another opportunity to play ‘
I "They would like nothing more than to   ’ GUllf0Tdf’ Pascale Said-
beat us, the ramming Championsfi . Now, the Generals move on from their hard-
2 Two wecks ago’ the Generals let Last Wednesday, the Generals held their lead . fought  to face the second-seeded Shenandoah
Guilford ﬁnd a way around W&L’s agarrrsr the Lynchburg Homers  rlre ODAC l Hfme“ lllls Saturday‘
defense early, leading to Guilford’s quarterﬁnals r0 Pull Our 3 l3'9 Wrr1- l _lfwe €13: our gzmeblintgailghl folnthe 
The number of W&L student athletes who achieved a Ultimate Vler0rY- The gallle lwedneidalll was absollllely 1 3, B V6 {:0 0-1; we W1 “Wm e
“This time we [were] ready for them and awesome, Waxter said. Our team played well  _ M , I News er 531 - 0

4.0 GPA during the winter term. They are among the
179 student-athletes who earned scholar-athlete ac-

colades by achieving at least a 3.5 for the semester.

“Now we have to go into a hostile
environment and they’re going to be trying
to get it over with. They don't want to come
back here, but we do.”
-BostnrI0elt|c¢uardJasoriTerryafterﬁielrGame4vlehory
Inthooponlngmund ofthe NBAPlqyofrsvarsusthoNew
YbrkKnIclss.ThoKnIcI<swaraIeadIn¢thoserIes3-oonuerlng
thearnoaridwarolooldngforthosweep, butaostnn

prevailed In overumototaletheserlesto NowYork. Boston
hopestnwlnand briruIhoserlesbackhome,fromsI.com

pi‘?

on both sides of the ﬁeld and we really played as a , A, g  T 9‘ g . 
‘ognqreyqaljkeeper Cara Mulligarti‘ after saving 't y
, c

[did] not give up a lead so easily,” Waxter
unit.”

' said.

759
ball f

I H

     

 

 

 

The Generals had succeeded with this
e li ._ hout

.e3.. }r'.A'-._....'.¢

  

W&L shows athletic prowess

Generals ’spring sports all represented in ODAC tournaments

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Five Washington and Lee teams made it
into their respective Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournaments this past week. ,

Leading the way for the Generals is the women’s
tennis team. W&L, ranked 16th in the nation,
took the title over Roanoke in Sunday’s ﬁnal,
5-0. Including this year the Generals have taken
the ODAC title 21 of the past 23 seasons. The
team quickly advanced up to the ﬁnals with a 6-0
win over Guilford and a 5-0 win over Virginia
Wesleyan.

The men’s tennis team made a similarly easy
run to the title match. After defeating both
Hampton-Sydney and Virginia Wesleyan 5-0,
the 23rd ranked and top-seeded Generals faced

The Generals were determined to pull out another
Vwin aganst Lynchburg after def e Hornets I  _ A , _

   

 

Bridgewater. The Generals defeated the Eagles
5-0. ’

Additionally, the women’s lacrosse team has
made it into the title game to be played next
Saturday in Shenandoah. W&L played Lynchburg
at home on Wednesday in a rematch of their close
overtime victory a few weeks earlier. W&L was ’
able to win more comfortably by a score of 13-9.
On Saturday, fourth-seeded W&L traveled to top-
seeded Guilford and earned their trip to the ﬁnals
with a 14-13 victory.

Baseball entered the ODAC tournament as the
fourth-seed alter taking both games of a double-
header with Virginia Wesleyan on the last day of
the regular season. On Saturday in the opening

   
  

sday’s gap: _s_
gnerr .\ ' l

 

  
 
 
 

  

round, the Generals fell to Harnpden-Sydney in
extra innings. The two teams entered extra innings
tied at 4 until the Generals took a 5-4 lead in the
top of the 1 1th inning. The Tigers responded

with two runs of their own to hand the loss to the
Generals.

The men’s lacrosse tournament has yet to start
play, but the 12th-ranked Generals are seeded
third. Tournament play begins for the Generals
when they host sixtli-seed Virginia Wesleyan on
Tuesday. If they win they travel to Lynchburg
on Saturday to face second-seeded Lynchburg
in a rematch oftheir overtime loss a month ago.
Finally, if they are victorious they will play in the
ﬁnals on Sunday in Roanoke.

 

"When I made the decision to walk away, I
wrestled with it long and hard, and I knew
it was ﬁnal. Once I retired, that was it. My
mind is in a different place. Mentally, going
back would have been too hard.”

- Ruurodsan Dlegocharuor Labalnlan Tbmllnson about
bolrt¢aoIodtnrie|oInthe1nam.Heplqyadfor|hocharaors
forrnoetofh|scareorbeI'oreplqylngasaNauYorkJetfor
twoooaoorisﬂoslmedaorio-dqyoonhactwlththocliaruers
ln2009aohocou|d retlrewlth1hom|nslnad,fmmSl.com

Athlete of  

te Week

   

‘Junior attacker Katie Hagen scored six goals
in Washington and Lee's upset of Guilford on

Saturday. She has 27 goals on the season, good
for second on the team.

ondeck

  

Men’s Lacrosse

W&L Women’s~T&F Takes
Second at ODAC Championship

Courtesy of Generals Sports

LEXINGTON, Va. —— The Washington and
Lee women’s track and ﬁeld team totaled a
program record 155 points at the ODAC Outdoor
Track and Field Championship on Saturday at
Wilson Field. The Generals ﬁnished second
behind Roanoke (178.5 points) for the team title.
Lynchburg was third with 125 points.

W&L had three individual titles on Saturday,
to go along with two on Friday, and earned three
individual honors. Junior Annelise Madison
(Roca, Neb./Roca) was named the ODAC/

Farm Bureau Insurance Scholar-Atlilete of the
year. Senior Lauren Schultz (Hopkinton, Mass./
Hopkinton) was named Co—Athlete of the Meet
with senior Carmen Graves of Roanoke. Schultz
won the 3,000m steeplechase on Friday and took
second in the l0,000m. Head Coach Nate Hoey
was honored as the Coach of the Year.

Of the three winners, sophomore Janey Fugate
(Atlanta, Ga/Whiteﬁeld Academy) won the
400H (1204.91) for the second straight year, senior
Marissa Thompson (Chatharn, Va./Chatham)
crossed the ﬁnish line ﬁrst in the 100H (15.39) and
sophomore Jillian Katterhagen (The Woodlands,

Tuesday

Wednesday
at Guilford 7 pm

vs. VaWes 7pm

Texas/The Woodlands) claimed the pole vault
title for the second year in a row with a mark of
3.26m (10’08.25”). All three competitors eamed
First Team Al1—ODAC honors with their ﬁnishes.
Thompson also came in ﬁﬁh in the triple jump
with a mark of 10.33m (33’ 10.75”).

The Generals also took second and third in the
pole vault. First-year Kaela Fiutak (Skaneateles,
N.Y./Skaneateles) was the runner up at 3.16m
(10’04.25”) and junior Alexandra Hagan
(Tampa, F la/H.B. Plant) claimed thud at 3.06m
(l0’00.50”). Fiutak garnered Second Team All-
ODAC honors and Hagan earned Third Team
All-ODAC.

Along with Fugate’s win the 400H, the Blue and
White also placed second and fourth. First-year
Johanna Goeigen (Kinnelon, N.J./Kinnelon)
crossed the ﬁnish line second in 1:05.76, and

l senior Paige Gance (Wilton, Conn./Wilton)

ﬁnished fourth with a time of 1:08.78. Fugate

also scored in the 400m, taking fourth (58.95).

Classmate Sarah Helms (Cummings, Ga./North

Forsyth) ﬁnished sixth in the event at 1:01.13.
In the distance events, W&L had six Top 5

Thursday

 

ﬁnishes on Saturday. In the 800m, Madison took
fourth in 2:20.80. The team had two competitors
place in the 1,500m. Madison ﬁnished third
(4:57.23) and senior Molly Ortiz (Ketchikan,
Alaska/Ketchikan) claimed fourth in 5:00.12.
In the 5,000m, the Blue and White took second,
third and ﬁfth. Ortiz ﬁnished second in 18:20.35,
Madison was third with a time of 18:34.21 and
sophomore Casey Mackintosh (Marietta, Ga]
George Walton) placed ﬁlth in 18:42.53.

W&L had a second and third-place ﬁnish in the
relays.‘ In the 4x 1 00m, the quartet of Thompson,
Katterhagen, junior J ulia Murray (Bridgewater,
N.J/Bridgewater-Raritan) and ﬁrst-year Molly
Ungiady (Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla./The Bolles
School) came in third (50.52). The combo of
junior Lauren Woodie (Blueﬁeld, Va/Graham),
Goergen, Helms and Fugate claimed second in the
4x400m in 4:09.41.

The Generals compete next Saturday, April
27, at the Paul Kaiser Invitational hosted by

Shippensburg.

Saturday

Women’s Lacrosse

at Shenandoah 1 pm

Men’s Tennis

vs Mary Wash.2 pm

Women's Tennis

at Emory 12 pm

vs Mary Wash 12 pm

. Men’s Track

at Clemson

at Clemson

Women’s Track

’ at Liberty Twilight

5 at Duke Twilight

 >

 

372.755‘
11557.-

v. HE»
“D 1'1

    
  

          WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSHY     

RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXV||,NUMBER21

      

A On Friday afternoon, Washington and Lee stu-

V_.,«  dents were alerted to. the fact that a ﬁre had con-

"i ~* sumed the majority of the Preston Street home of
four W&L seniors. ’ -
First responders were called to 106 Preston

Street on Friday due to a ﬁre that initiated on the

porch of the house. ‘According to, Sidney Evans,

the VicevPresident for Student Affairs and Dean
of Students, the ﬁre “severely damaged [the] off-
campus residence”. Public safety director, Mike

Young, called the ﬁre “a total loss”. ‘

Although none of the W&L students were in-
_ jured, few of their belongings were salvaged
from the remains of the ﬁre.

Young said the W&L students “are being as-
sisted by Student Affairs staff members, Dean
Futrell and others”. According to Dean Evans,
the Dean of Students office was “working with
them to secure housing and to help obtain basic
supplies”.

“The affected students are all seniors, and I
know that everyone in the W&L community will
join us in supporting them as they ﬁnish the ﬁnal
weeks of the academic year,” Evans said.

For those that wish to contribute any form of
support to these students, please contact Dean
Evans at sevans@wlu.edu.

  
       

-".)_’§‘
Q

   

'nsiciei;o

  
  

 
  

     

    
 
      
 
        
  

Alumni rel

their giory days
See what Washington and
Lee alumns have to sa
about W&L “back in t

97

day . A

 
   
      
     
     
     
       
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 

 

must have!

Who wouldn’t want to
have an ap that helps you .
pick u gir s and keeps you
up to ate on Kanye West?

   
  
 

  

  
 

 
  

  

  
    
 
 

Friend us on
Facebook!

/<

  
 
 
   
  
    
  
 

  

@ringtumphi

  

 Holocaust
j survivor
  tells story

By Graham Colton

STAFF WRITER _ _v
Washington and Lee University

students have their share of troubles,
but after listening to Marcel Drimer’s
childhood stories, one would ﬁnd that
these trying times are nothing that
can’t be handled.

   

_.._(--  f

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

. at;l\lh"e9“‘ 0. 

7&1‘ ’

        

 

  
 
 

News---# “We thought about giving up  but

I opinionS_'_# we didn’t,’’ said Drimer, while talking

(_ & _ # about his experience surviving the Ho-
Alts I-"em locaust. -

- Drimer’s talk was just one event of
many during W&L’s Holocaust Re-
membrance Week. Just three weeks
ago, Drimer, along with other survi-
vors, met with President Obama for
Holocaust Remembrance Day.

Sporls...#

 
 
     

Wednesday

    
  
  

7 Thunder showers Born in 1934, Drimer was only ﬁve
. 0 0 years—old when Germany invaded P0-
52 .69 land and his hometown of Drohobycz

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

fell to Soviet control in 1939. The
town was small, with a population of
about 10,000, he said.

“You had some well-educated Jews
who were doctors and lawyers, but
then you had others who scraped by to
make a living,” Drimer said.

 ..  Thzrtrsday
 M  Partly Cloudy

54°-76°

     

. _ Ff'iaICl“V It wasn’t until July 1, 1941, that
\  -_ paruy cloudy the Germans inﬁltrated the town and
. '  0 0 began putting restrictions on Jews.
59 -79 Drimer said he and his family were
m——-—-—------———  —— only allowed to walk in certain places,
[turd I 7 and were required to wear arm bands

Sa C") identifying them as Jews.
Scattered Drimer described the terror that
580_ 770 came with German aktions, or violent
A operations against Jewish civilians.
I, — During one speciﬁc German aktion,
/ L , S14/76 0}’ , ' his family hid, in a wheat ﬁeld under

' Fewshowers .f —  his mother’s beidge choat..

. J J 0 0 , your . I‘... at “We starte earing Germans
44 4  '74 screaming, dogs barking, people cry-

ing, begging for their life, and then
shots ﬁred, and then it was quiet for 10
or 15 minutes,” he said,

congratulate the women’s lacrosse players whom you know! See page 6 for more information on the
team's victory this weekend.

   

Monday

   
   

Continued on page 2

<n

  

J,T}_z,e  ‘is recyclable.‘

 

 

 

l.“JI32iZ«lii:‘f:7§‘i'}I‘5 ii

 

,,,.,. ,m.~g._~,-,4»-‘Q -r
I.—‘:- :>,'~ ,; r-.u|
..-s.r... -..u.i.._...

 '%».:,1t:g 3-was

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013

PowerDown cuts ener

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee has begun its
ﬁrst Spring PowerDown Challenge to
reduce energy consumption.

Students living on-campus are en-
couraged to unplug and turn off appli-
ances and electronicsnot in use. The
dorm, Greek house or theme house that
reduces consumption by the largest per-

centage between May 3 and May 10 will
win a Power Sundae Party at the Lee
House on» Monday, May 13. Mr. and
Mrs. Ruscio will also be participating.
“We are hoping that [the competition]
will give people a reason to. . .take a look
around their room or... their dorm and...
look at those things that are on that don’t

 

W&L’s energy specialists.

In 2009, Washington and Lee attend-
ed an energy conservation conference to
learn that the University was dead last
in a list of 30 schools for energy use per
square foot, said Stewart. The schools
were all part of the Jessie Ball DuPont
Fund that gives money to schools for
energy projects. After the conference,
Washington and Lee decided to step up
its game to reduce consumption. Stewart
said that energy use per square foot has
dropped since then and that W&L is no
longer at the bottom ofthe list.

In fact, Morris Trimmer, W&L’s oth-
er energy specialist, says that the new
energy program reduced consumption
by $600,000 to $800,000 in the past year.

The PowerDown Competition is the
ﬁrst major push to reduce consumption,
said Trimmer.

Stewart said the changes students are
asked to make are small and easy.

“We’re not really even really asking
anybody to sacriﬁce anything,” she said.
“We’re talking about...not using some-
thing ifyou don’t need it.”

She said that one of the energy-wast-
ing practices that sticks out to her is fra-
ternities leaving on lights outside their
houses when they are not in Lise.

Stewart said that the competition is
a most improved model because it mea-
sures a percentage drop. This method
was chosen because buildings have dif-

need to be,” said Jane Stewart, one of‘

ferences in energy use beyond student
control. For instance, all heating and air
conditioning pumps are located in the Pi
Beta Phi house, so it has the highest en-
ergy use of all sororities.

Stewart said she had an idea of who
would win the competition based on past
responsiveness, but she would not men-

 

From March 26-28, the Student
Body voted on the Constitutional Re-
view Committee’s (CRC) proposed
amendments to the Washington and
Lee Student Body Constitution. Here
are the results as printed in Campus
Notices on April 1:

Of 1330 ballots cast, 749 voted in
favor of the amendment for The Con-
stitutional Review Committee to meet
every 3 years (56%), 198 voted in

stitutional Review Committee to meet
every 6 years (15%). Neither amend-
ment passed. '

  
  

Venture club seeks  
new members

By Krysta Huber
STA F F w R IT E R

Now wrapping up its second year on
campus, the Venture Club is seeking new
members for next fall.

Club members will be hosting an in-
formation session evening at 7 p.m. on
Monday, May 6 in Commons 345. Inter-
ested students of all years and majors are
encouraged to attend.

The Venture Club is Washington and
Lee’s entrepreneurship organization,
which works primarily with alumni busi-
nesses. Venture Club members focus on
the many aspects of startuppconsulting,
helping new businesses to set up suc-
cessful business plans. , ~

Venture Club President Mark Sowin-
ski ‘I4 said that the overall purpose of
the club is to foster a genuine interest in
entrepreneurship.

“The mission of the Venture Club is
to develop the spirit of entrepreneurship
within the [W&L] community,” said So-

an investing branch, the Venture Invest- I

ing Group. Vice President of ‘Investing

Henry Luther ‘ 14 will lead the group be- .

ginning in September.

Luther said that this summer, the in-
vesting group will be creating a system
and assigning criteria to the Venture
Club’s investments in entrepreneurial
companies.

“I will be looking speciﬁcally for stu-
dents that have the needed skills to make
this group successful,” he said.

Vice President of Marketing Casey I

Mackintosh ’15, who is responsible for

publicizing the Venture Club on campus, ' ii’ ‘I in

said that the new investing group was '

one of the reasons why-she wanted to be
the Vice President of Marketing.

“I wanted this position because I be-
lieve that this club has a lot of growth po-
tential, especially with the launching of
the Venture Investment Group,” she said.

“‘T he strength of a Venture Club experience is the diver-

sity in experience and the ability to obtain a true and

deep understanding of how start-up businesses work. ”

Mark Sowinski ‘14lVenture Club President

winski.

Sowinski said that the club works
toward its mission in three major ways.
One of the club’s efforts is through con-
sulting. Venture Club members work
with several startup companies each se-
mester.

The Venture Club has recently con-
sulted with two alumni companies, Ice-
box Coffee and HeroMe. Sowinski said
that Icebox Coffee, which was started
by Bebe Goodrich ’07, is a coffee con-
centrate that can be mixed with water or
milk to make instant iced coffee.

HeroMe, which was developed by
Josh Bryan ’07, is working on a line of
action ﬁgures that-is customized to the
preferences of each purchaser.

Venture Club Director of Consulting -

Alex Hensleigh ’ l 4 said she believes that
Icebox Coffee bodes a promising future.

“Icebox Coffee is an awesome com-
pany because they have a great product
and great growth potential,” Hensleigh
said.

Sowinski said that the club is cur-
rently consulting with Icebox Coffee
and will be-meeting with Goodrich in the
next few weeks to discuss sales strate-
gies for her company.

The Venture Club also hosts events
on campus throughout the year, which
are open to all W&L students. Sowinski
said that events like the Entrepreneurship
Summit and the annual Startup Pitch
Competition give students the opportu-
nity to network with alumni.

The Venture Club’s third effort in
achieving its mission is the newest ofthe
three. The club is currently developing

“With this new branch, the club will now
encompass marketing, venture capital,
investment and consulting projects.”

During weekly lunch meetings, Ven-
ture Club members interact with lead-
ing entrepreneurs and venture capitalists
via Skype. The ofﬁcers all agreed that
the advice they’ve been given by those
entrepreneurs has been one of the most
valuable experiences of the club.

“Venture Club is a great opportunity
to work with real businesses and gain ap-
plicable skills,” Hensleigh said.

Mackintosh said that the tangible
skills she has also learned as a Venture
Club member, such as creating business
models and writing research briefs, are
extremely important and will certainly
beuseful after college.

Sowinski said that a key distinction of
the Venture Club is how different each
member’s experience can be, given their
role in the club, the types of companies
they work with and the variety of stu-
dents they collaborate with.

“The strength of a Venture Club ex-
perience is the diversity in experience
and the ability to obtain a true and deep
understanding of how startup businesses
work,” he said. .

Sowinski added that the skills stu-
dents acquire by participating in the Ven-
ture Club are beneﬁcial to many careers.

“Graduated members of the Venture
Club have gone into careers as varied as
investment banking, marketing, venture
capital or Teach for America, as the skills
developed in the club are widely appli-
cable across many ﬁelds.”

it

through adversity.

Drimer’s first-had, eyewinessiacou

  

nt of th Holicaust wa

Continued from
Holocaust survlvor

By Graham Colton
STAFF WRITER

“And then it would start all over
again.”

“It was like a symphony of death,”
said Drimer. ‘

Shortly after, as day turned to dusk,
Drimer said he and his mother and sister
encountered a German soldier, and they
all made eye contact and stopped.

“It was only for a minute, but it felt
like an eternity,” Drimer said.

The soldier, for what reason Drimer
does not know, turned around and walked
away.

Drimer also talked about a “tale of
two coats,” when he, his mother and his
sister were hiding in an attic for an ex-
tended period oftime. His father would
bring them food when possible, but they
went without food for several days when
his father didn’t come back.

“My father eventually bribed his way

out of prison with a fur coat,” Drimer
said, as Jews were not» allowed to have
such things at the time.

When his father returned, he brought
a peasant woman whohad some provi-
sions. Drimer said his mother was will-
ing to barter with her, and the woman
said she wanted Drimer’s sister’s winter
coat in return for some bread.

“And my mother said, ‘But that is my
child’s winter coat,’ and the woman said
‘It doesn’t matter, you will all be dead by
winter,”’ Drimer said.

Once liberated in August 1944,
Drimer said he had a hard time acclimat-
ing to life post-war. He said his muscles
were weak, so he had to relearn how to
walk. I

However, Drimer is thankful to have
survived. Only 400 people from his town
were able to get through the Holocaust.

Results of the       
Student Body Vote t  
on Constitution    

favor of the amendment for The Con-.

gy use

tion the name of the dorm or house.

As for the future, Trimmer said he
thought the competition could change
long-term behavior.

“Hopefully it will have an impact be-
yond the challenge period,” he said.

    
     
      

Of the 1251 ballots cast, 883 vot-
ed in favor of passing all remaining”
amendments (71%). The remaining’
amendments passed. _

The updated Constitution is posted P
on the EC website. CRC Chairman’
Annelise Madison would like to thank:
the students who voted on the amend-S
ments and encouraged others to: vote;
Also, thanks to CRC members Pa-.
qui Toscano, Clark Hildabrand, Rob
Ridgeway, Alex Berger, John Lang-*
ley, Cam Higgins, Emily,Zankma_:n*
and James Gordon for allof their hard,
work this yean — i I ‘ "' ‘ ‘

    
     
            
     
        
      
     
      
       
       
   
   
 

 
 

 
 

   

PATRICK HINELY '73 / photographer

 
   

the ltimate testimony to perseverlng

He now lives in Burke, Va. with his wife,
while his son and two grandchildren live
elsewhere.

“Out of the 6.5 million people killed,
1.5 million were children,” Drimer said.
“Think of what they could have done for
this world.”

Drimer said he’s written about more
than 10 separate stories from his war ex-
periences, "and has been told he “writes
with an accent." He said it is important
for him to write and speak, as there are
still some individuals who insist the Ho-
locaust never happened.

“I was a witness to what was happen-
ing, and by you listening, now you be-

. come witnesses,” he said. “We must see
’to it that nothing like this ever happens

again.”

  

  

  

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

"By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Violence in Syria continues

Violence continues in Syria with massacres in several towns. At least 50 were
announced dead in al-Baida on Friday after pro-Assad troops raided the village.
This tally included women and children. After the attack, Syrian opposition is_—
sued a plea for international action to the Arab League and the United Nations.
Reports suggest that what has been called a “large scale massacre” was a re-
sponse to the earlier attack on a bus carrying pro-Assad ﬁghters.

Russia unveils new landmark

On Thursday, Russia_unveiled its newest cultural landmark in St. Petersburg.
The Mariinsky Il Theater, a modern ballet and opera house, celebrated its open-
ing with a large gala event. Director Mikhail Piotrovsky and others criticized the
building for its unappealing exterior architecture. However, ofﬁcials are excited
for the future prospects surrounding the theater.

Musharraf banned from
elections

On Tuesday, the Pakistani courts banned Pervez Musharraf from the upcoming
elections. Musharraf, a former military leader, returned to Pakistan in March to
support his political party and run in these historic elections. In response to his
banning, his party is boycotting the elections. They claim that a free and fair
election is no longer possible.

Arab League revises plan

In meetings early last week, the Arab League revised their peace plan for Israel
__and Palestine. The new initiative accepted the possibility of land swapping in the
future. Although many leaders praised the revision, Palestinian Hamas ofﬁcial
Ismail Haniyeh said that land swapping was not an action that outsiders could
decide on for the nation: “Palestine is not a property, it is not for sale, not for a

swap and cannot be traded.”
Garment factory collapses

A garment factory collapsed in Bangladesh on April 24. Authorities are still re-
covering bodies from the rubble; the total reached over 500 on Friday. Dozens of
victims were buried by the ruins and many families are worried that their victims
will never be traced. Nine people were taken into custody after the collapse for
charges such as negligence. This disaster shed light on many of the companies
that outsource to Bangladesh because of cheap labor.

Interest rates cut in Europe

The European Central Bank cut interest rates on Thursday by .25%. This cut,
which is the first in ten months, brought rates to a record low .5%. The cut did
not come as a surprise in the midst of rising unemployment in Europe and a drop
in eurozone inﬂation below the target level. Unemployment levels hit a record
high in March and, since then, oﬁicials at the ECB have been closely monitoring
economic situations and waiting to act. The ECB’s hope is that the economic
situation will turn for the better later inthe year.

Malaysia elections spark
controversy

Drama surrounds the elections in Malaysia on Sunday because of recent ru-
mors that the ruling party has been unfairly “buying votes.” The former swing
state of Sabah has been a stronghold for the current party in control for the past
two years. Suspicious arose in the time leading up to this election that previous
administrations gave illegal immigrants citizenship in exchange for votes. Au-
thorities are investigating the allegations.

Relivin glory days

Alums say W&L has evolve , but it is still the mine Cainpzi/s

By Athena Cao
STA F F w R I T E R

Washington and Lee is evolvino, but
nothing has changed, alumni say.

More than 600 alumni came home for
their reunions last weekend. Many are
amazed at the renovations on campus. but
they say the W&L spirit never changes.

“Obviously there have been new build-
ings built everywhere you pop-up, but
the more it changes, the tnore it stays the

same,” says Thomas O’Brien ’88, ‘9lL. -

“The essence of W&L is still the same.
[and] the spirit of W&L is still the same."
Living in Louisville, Ky., O‘Brien
drives down to Lexington about once
a year to recruit for his law firm, Frost
Brown Todd LLC. He said some of his
classmates were shocked at the changes
on campus because they “literally" had
not come back since graduation, but to
him, the school is evolving gradually.

Scott Fowler ’83 also said that some as-
pects of W&L remain the same. Fowler”s
grandfather, father and sister are all W&L
alumni and last weekend, he brought his
son Cameron, a future W&L General, to
campus as well. Scott attended activities
like the alumni party at the Liberty Hall
Ruins and the Five-Star General event
with his father.

He said it felt like home.

“It’s always great to come back to Lex-
ington—it’s sort of like coming home.“
Fowler said. “The foundation and basics
of what the University is about, what
George Washington and [Robert] Lee
gave it as character has always remained

insistent."
Rick 'Wootlwttt‘ti ‘73 and his wife be-
lieve it was the tncntztlity of the honor

system and st'te:tki*tg tradition that glltlltls
the \\7t&‘;l spirit. il‘l'lCl‘C are few’ other plac-
es like W&L. \‘v'oodwartl said.

"\’y'hen V-.e"\e been walking Z1l'()Ulltl. l
reali/.c<l I li()'('gtli to talk to people» they
speak‘ to me.“ ‘.‘t7t.>t‘>ti\\.:tt'<l said. "I lit ed
in New York for a while. If you try to
speak to people in 1\§e\\ ‘t"ork, the) call
the cops and say. ‘Vt hat are you. stalking
me or sotttetliing‘.""

Woodward said l.e.\ington was a little
“‘rtttt—dowt‘t“ iii the 1970s with ver_\ few
nice restautattts.

"Tliere are actually nice restaLtt'ants
dcl'initel_\ not the case when l was here."
Rick said. "We used to go to this place
called the Central Lounge. also known
as the ‘Liquid Lotttigef which was run
b) a fornter police officer »‘()ft'iect‘
l)uck" and his wife worked there ‘too.
‘Mrs. Dttck" And I ncxer knew their teal
names.”

To alumni '-\ ho had grat.luated before

the Utti=.er~:it} went co-ed. like tltarlie .

(‘Itambcrs ‘(ml the Lnit.er~;it§ ntigltt not
he tltat llllll.‘ll the saint).

(‘han'tbcrs said i.llC} hati to w cat’ Ll ettztt
and tie to class. atttl lllt.’_\' were only al-
lowed to h;.\ c three absetttres in a semesx-«
let: lat1e_\ l)t  tiseti to he the "w eelxettd

-rm and winter term Lind

 
   

hetweett iitll
there was no h1\‘ak in h-_-lweett. he siiitl.

l\’l;t<:l«.e_\ "l'ilti’t;ttt “()3 ‘éllltl that he and his

wife are closely connected with his Phi
Delta Theta fraternity brothers.

llis w ifc. Nancy Tilman; said W&L has
become more global.

“l)ocsn‘t it also seem it’s more glob-
al‘.‘.“ :\laney said. “We went to the as-
scnibly last night and that is what struck
us too——--it  more global; the world is
getting smaller in everyway.”

/\t the Student and Alumni LinkUP Re-
ccption on Saturday morning, Douglas
Pan/er ‘98 emphasized the importance of
networking with alumni. Hosted by the
t'at‘t:er Development Center, the event in-
‘sites the newly inducted Phi Eta Sigma
tneznbers to meet with alumni.

Rttnning his own law practice, Panzer
said he has learned from other alumni’s

' wins and scars.

"I am actually in touch with a number
of older alumni from the ‘70s who are in-
credibly helpful,” Panzer said. “They can
tell me things that I can’t possibly have
learned at this stage of tny life.”

Alumni connection bonds together gen-
eralions of W&L Generals. Panzer said
this Op[)0l‘ltlllll_\' is like no other.

“You are in one of the tnost important
fottt‘—yeat‘ periods in your life, develop-
me-ntallV\.— educationally,” Panzer said.‘
"You w ill never have the opportunity to
mt"-et people with such a shared back-
grottttd and shared love of something.”

  

P Elsa Sigma inductsi

ne members

_, - "By Graham Colton

»

    

c o P Y E D l T0 R V

On May 3, the students in the top 20 percent of the ﬁrst-year class were inducted
into Phi Eta Sigma National Honor Society.

Jason Rodocker, the Assistant Dean for the First-Year Experience, and adviser to
the W&L chapter of Phi Eta Sigma: “The quality and caliber of our student proﬁle
continues to improve and the academic accomplishments of the ﬁrst-year class are
very impressive. Many of these students will obtain further academic accolades
and even graduate fellowships as they progress through their undergraduate years
at [W&L].”

Moving off, cuttng costs

Housing in Lexington is cheaper than it is in many other college towns

By Rachel Adams-Heard
5 TA F F W R I T E R

t

ington and Lee is the way in which off-
campus housing is chosen.

For some, housing is done through fra-
ternities and sororities. An older Greek
member will often pass a house down to a
younger brother or sister.

For those not afﬁliated with Greek life,
the search for an off-campus house may
prove more difficult.

Whether the closetie between housing
and Greek life is positive or negative. one

thing is certain: thcrel-a1ivel.\' low cost of

Le\ington ll.t,‘U.\‘lllg to other college towns
is a nice break in the otherw isc liiglt price
of attending Wasltitt<__itort and Lee.

()l‘f-eatnptts ltolirélltg can be scpamted
into ‘tw o t,‘1lll.‘\:',tIl‘lt_‘SI town and eouiltry
Many properties are rented for two }’eZ1l'.\.
it stttdents _l'tllli0l‘ and senior year, w hile
others are _\early leases.

Another t]'Lltllll_\' of W&L housing is that
yirtuall_\ L‘\"Cl'_\ house has a name. ltrom
‘the rather self-e.\plantttot‘y names such as

Poles l. 2. 3. 4. 5 and 6 and the Cabins, to
the more creative titles like County Seat
and l’lllllpl()Wll, W&L housing is personi-
iied in a way that further distinguishes it
front any other school.

Paul Wilson. a former W&L and VMI
prol‘essot*. has been renting houses to
W&L students for almost 20 years, start-
ittg with the Igloo in l994. He rented out
the ri\ er houses, which burned down, and
l)t-wttstrcant. Rent for these houses rang-
cs from $350 per person a month to $525.
This priee, ‘Wilson says. makes “parents
lauglt with surprise and relief.”

Wilson explains that part of the joy in
being a landlord in Lexington is that he
enjoys college students. Although he
could charge tnore for his houses, Wilson
sit} s it is a lower priority than having ten-
ants who make life easy and pleasant.

But there's tnore to the cheap rent story.

Part of the reason is that Lexington is
home of one of the smallest universities
in the country. It makes it harder for land-
lords to increase their rates when future
tenants are in close relation with current
tenants and have knowledge of the price
they pay.

/\nother factor in the low cost of hous-
ng is gcograplty. It is well known that
l..e.\ington is not the shopping mall-
equipped Richmond. or even the home of
a (\lllCl\—lll-/\ like Roanoke. The quaint-
ncss of primttrily locally owned, family
operated shops and businesses is part of
the appeal of the small town life in Lex-
ington. but it also draws fewer families
and people searching for jobs. This low-
ers the demand for housing, which in turn
decreases the overall price of property in
Lexington.

 

  

 

 

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MAY 6,2013

  opinions

 

Germany: the good, thebad, andthe plain old weird

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

For the past three weeks I have been
on the Washington and Lee University
Spring Term abroad trip to Germany. It’s
a six week long program with a 4-week
class based in Bayreuth sandwiched
between trips to Salzburg, Berlin and
Munich. I have been to Germany once
before, but this longer trip has made
many interesting facts about this Euro-
pean powerhouse much more evident. If
you plan to visit the Bierland any time
soon, here are some of the best, worst
and weirdest things I’ve seen thus far.

 

TWE DEER,

America, you will never
win the award for best
0 beer if any German beer
(maybe even the one euro variety from
McDonald’s) enters the competition.
Since the Middle Ages Germany has had
strict laws about what goes into a beer.
The legal beer drinking age is 16 and
beer drinking could probably be con-
sidered a national pastime. No football
(okay, soccer) game is complete without
it.

it ,
N H]

W.»
J

WOWEK
ONTD
O 0 It

seems that the citizens of Germany en-
joy the most complicated of power out-
lets. Big and bulky, they sit far off the
wall (normally somewhere near the light
switch). Apple computer chargers paired
with adapters make the worst combina-
tion, constantly falling out. Germans
also must enjoy hiding power outlets
because they are most commonly found
under beds or wardrobes.

        

mg‘-

A§§gf

literally a bread type for every meal,
piece of cheese and meat. lt’s impres-
sive in a way that makes every tourist
feel overwhelmed and a little stupid. The
taste and freshness always makes up for
one’s embarrassing ignorance- trust me.

“adj
lfllwlﬁ, .

0 know what you’re
thinking- the ‘90s were forever long
ago- which while a true statement, it
seems the German club scene is stuck
in 1996. The sets normally follow the
structure of 90 percent nineties music,
one German song, and a slightly over-
played Macklemore song. It’s almost
endearing considering that Germans not
only do not, but cannot dance. A talent
left to the proud and the free, I would
suggest toning down the dancing while
in a German club, or everyone will know
you’re American.

  

  

-Cf}
k.__2 '

.,glII(
.’-A--"

  

 

BED
  o JWEETJ.

There aren’t any here.
Instead, the Germans use a large duvet
cover and nothing else. While comfort-
able, it’s a little awkward getting used to
letting your feet hang out. Also, the pil-
lows are all square (???). ‘

Of course, there are a plethora of
other things about Germany that make it
a completely entertaining place to visit.
More importantly, the culture and poli-
tics make for an interesting environment
as well.

LEDEKD
WOJEN.

The German
pants/suspenders combination is most
deﬁnitely a fashion and a history state-
ment. Rather unattractive, they do make
the beer festival more entertaining.

DKEHD,mm

can bread makes no sense 0

0 now that I have only been
enjoying the German varieties. Here
they call American loaves “toast” be-
cause that’s all they use it for. There is

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

4 apps that will leave

MISSION STATEMENT:

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

IULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

.IUL|A LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HANNAH HOWARD
ATHENA CAO

RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
ANDREA OWEN

KRYSTA HUBER

LEAH GOSE

YEJEAN KIM

JAMES MCCULLUM

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

it is the mission of THE RING-TUM PHI

to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting
the Washington and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our-goal is to look deeper into news

affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable. Through
our reporting, we aspire to spark discussions that lead to

discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a member of
The Media Board, which can be reached at medlaboard@w|u.

edu, but is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI welcomes
all letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions for

content and length. Letters and advertising do not necessarily

reflect the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
‘ SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

you laughing

  
  
    

Tﬂe @n1°1@n

In case you didn’t know
that Kanye West had recent-
' ‘ ly retired to a small farm in
Ohio, or that a fourteen year
_ old genius has just balanced
the national budget, The On-
ion is the news source that
keeps you up to date. This sa-
tirical newspaper is full of fun
facts about celebrities, politi-
cians, sports stars, and more.
For example, did you know
that Sony has just released
nose buds so that you can re-
lease various smells into your
nose at all points of the day?
" Now on sale for $49.99.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

W Man Unwilling To
I Discuss Lifetime
r Denny's Ban

Have you ever played that game \\ here you stick a post-it
on your forehead and guess what‘s written on it based on the
Clues your friends give you‘? Heads Up! is e.\aetlytl1ut, only in
app-form. Backed by the “I5llen" brand. this game is hilarious.
provided you‘re willing to act out “rid g a horse" and hum
the melody of"Mm Bop” as last as you can.

‘l)ﬁC7e Ural

      
  
 

When I was 21 kid. I used to love reading the
"‘l1Iimies" with my grandma. Now. newspaper coin-
ics can be delivered right to your iPhone.

“I’ve never had a dream I

come true until today when
I met you.” If you’ve ever
been the victim of a truly

SOMETIMES

   
 

    
 
  

   

love this one. To begin, you I 
press a button that reads “Tap 3:3” F“'°""° PI°I"u" or  %HE  RIGHT,
Me,” and a new pick-up line .-. 
will appear on your screen. Barpick up “ms . WQRST Jog Lkv .
My personal favorites? “Ifl   ‘Y?’ ‘A
kdtMD ld’,I’d ~

Xaiirriee a esandvsichnzftei you Best PM up I-ms . W0 R I" 
called the McGorgeous.” “If Corny Pick UP Lines V

t , Id E
you were a aser you wou Dmy Pick up “Ms .

be set to stunning.” And ﬁnal-
ly, “You’re hot. l’m ugly. To-
gether we could be average.”

   
        
     
  
 
 

   

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013' 9 5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

arts&life  

D

vi“’:'Most students spend their summers away from Lexington, but some just can ’t seem to get enough of oarl
A’ By Yejean Kim ‘ I -

‘__/'AsT'iAi=i= wmrsn

 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 

town I

      
    
  

For most Washington and Lee students, the
next two weeks of spring term will be spent
basking in all of Lexington and their free
time. However, for some students, these next
two weeks are just the beginning of their time
in Lexington. Without the rigor and demands
of the regular school year, these students will
be free to pursue their passions, in a familiar
environment, during the many summer op-
portunities both W&L and Lexington have to
offer.

 
   
 

WHO: Cara Scott, ﬁrst-year

K WHAT: Resident of Lexington‘

THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I’m working in V

the bookstore because I want to stay connected ‘ ‘ ‘,5’  C,

V to campus over the summer. I’m actually pret- ' 

_- ty excited because I know a few other people .  *’ Q G _ ,,

. who will be here, plus all my friends from high , g .  ' ' I
school will‘ be back, so I think this summer will _ , ; I

be better than previous ones. Lexington tends ‘

I to be pretty dead over the summer, but between

work and seeing friends from both college and

high school, I think it could be fun!”

   
 
  

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

  
  
  
     

   

 

! WHO: Andrew Conlon, ﬁrst-year
WHAT: Research with Professor Kue-
hner .
THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I am ‘
very excited to have a research opportu— }
nity as a freshman and I plan to make the
most of staying in campus. I really enjoy _
getting practical experience in any sub-
ject, not just physics and I will deﬁnitely
‘ explore campus, Lexington, and the sur-

   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

WHO: Yishu Liu, ﬁrst-year
" WHAT: Summer RA with the
Alumni College ‘ ,

THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I
think it will be a blast, might be
kind of boring without all the stu-
dents, but it will be a great experi-

. Dad

 

     
  
   
  
  
  
  
 

 
 
    

:3:

ar_ 11:-

rounding area as well.”

ah

..J ALI»

WHO: Jordan Edgren, Sophomore

WHAT: Genetics research on local species

of crayﬁsh with Professor Cabe

THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I’m really
looking forward to staying! It’s an awesome
opportunity to do some unique undergradu-
ate research. I know a lot of people are
staying here this summer as well and it will
be a great time to bond with new_and old

friends.”

__.f 

  ii ‘hf -5
sh arananda on his

 

   
   

A‘. I ‘_ I

  
 

O

ence.”

   
  
  
  

   

Q

 

’ portunity as a freshman.”

ptalism

  
       
   
 

WHO: Danielle Rosenthal, ﬁrst-
year '

WHAT: Neuroscience research
with Dr. Whiting . V
THOUGHTS, ON STAYING:
“I’m happy to have a research op-

 
      
   
 

:_f-"!I'-‘, J‘

-. .

Renowned activist, writer and monk discusses the emerging role of global capitalism and economic social theory

By James Mccullum
G U EST w R IT E R

Dada Maheshvarananda, born in the
US, is an activist, writer and monk.
Since 1978 he has taught meditation and
yoga and supervised social service proj-
ects, in Southeast Asia, South America
and Europe. His recent book, After Cap-
italism: Prout 3 Vision for a New World,
has been published in I0 languages.

He has given hundreds of seminars
and workshops around the world about
social issues and spiritual values. In
Oct. 2006 he opened the Prout Research
Institute of Venezuela, which he directs.
It is the passion of his life. Here is an
interview from Dada just after he left
Washington and Lee University.

Q: Ifyou had to choose one individual
who inspired you the most throughout
life, who would it be and why?

A: First, I’d like to say that I have been
inspired by many great women and
men, in this country and around the
world, who are totally committed to
changing the world and who walk their
talk. Still, I would say that Sarkar con-
tinues to be the greatest inspiration to
me. I personally and met him regularly
during the last 12 years of his life. Yet
he’s a diﬁicult person to describe.

I think he was a genius, a renaissance
man with revolutionary ideas in many
ﬁelds. Because of his stand against cor-
ruption, the caste system, the exploita-
tion of women and the exploitation by
political parties, he was imprisoned for
seven years in India. Yet he was a very
humble man who had more uncondi-
tional love than anyone I’ve ever met.

The scientific lessons of meditation

 

\.

that he taught empowered me; he made
me feel that I was the most important
person in the world to him; he inspired
me to dedicate my life in service to hu-
manity. I know many other people from
around the world who felt the same
way. Prout is based on unconditional
love for all, that we are one universal
human family, hence we can leave no-
body behind.

Q: Your book, After Capitalism, claims
that global capitalism is “terminally ill”
and doomed to collapse. Why do you
think our country is in distress and what
do you think we could do to avoid an
economic depression?

A: Unlike what the corporate-owned
media tells us, global capitalism will not
last forever. It is terminally ill because
it is based on proﬁt, selﬁshness and v
greed. It works well for some people,
but not for everyone, and nearly half
the world’s population is living, suffer-
ing and dying in poverty. This poverty
is completely unnecessary, because the
planet has enough resources, if we share
them, for everyone to have a high qual-
ity of life.

‘Global capitalism suffers from inher-
ent contradictions that include growing
inequity and concentration of wealth,
addiction to speculation instead of
production, and rising, unsustainable
debt. Committed to growth at all costs,
global capitalism has become a cancer,
out of control and lethal to our planet’s
life support systems. It cannot last. The
way to avoid an economic depression is
by building strong local economies in
every town and city. Local economies
with sustainable agriculture that grows
healthy food, renewable “green” indus-
tries and credit unions that offer loans
to local people are all elements ofa vi-
brant community. *

Q: As risk takers and opportunity seek-
ers, entrepreneurs enrich society, some-
times beneﬁting millions with creative
products, services and employment.

' Would you want to stop all their creativ-

ity and innovation?

A: Not at all. Yet most great innova-
tions are done in teamwork. Because
the physical resources of the planet are
limited, the hoarding wealth or using it
for speculation rather than productive
investment reduces the opportunities of
other people and causes poverty. A fun-

-damental principle of Prout is to limit

theaccumulation of wealth and create a
maximum salary that is tied to the mini-
mum wage.

In the United States, all government
federal employees have a starting an-
nual salary ofUS$l7,803 (General
Schedule grade I). With education,
experience and promotions, the high-
est pay scale for a president or general
or judge is US$l79,700 (Senior Ex-
ecutive Service), just ten times higher.
Similar pay scales exist for all state and
municipal government employees. In
Norway, the gap is only 5.3 times, and
that country has a very high standard
ofliving. We need an adequate “living
wage” for every worker; all earnings in
the private sector should also be capped
at reasonable maximum levels. The dif-
ference between the minimum wage and
the maximum salary helps to motivate
people to be productive and contribute
to society, but they should be fair and
appropriate. Just as everyone thinks that
government salaries are fair, I think that
tying the maximum salary to the mini-
mum in the general economy would
also be fair.

Q: On the back cover of your book,
After Capitalism, it says this is “inspired
by P.R. Sarkar’s Progressive Utilization
Theory or Prout.” Sarkar lived in India,
a country very different from the United
States. What is Prout; is it a relevant
model for this country? _

A: Prout is the acronym for Progressive
Utilization Theory, a new socio-eco-
nomic model based on self-reliance of
each region, cooperatives, environmen-
tal balance and universal spiritual val-
ues. Prout supports local economies and
the empowerment of people to make
economic decisions that directly shape
their lives and communities through
locally-owned, small-scale private en-
terprises, worker-owned cooperatives,
and publicly-managed utilities. It decen-
tralizes decision-making and gives citi-
zens the right to choose how their local
economy should be run.

Noam Chomsky said, “Prout’s co-
operative model, based on sharing the
planet’s resources for the welfare of
everyone, deserves our serious consid-
eration.”

Q: Why do you say cooperatives are the
“businesses of the future”? Can they re-

ally provide decentjobs for everyone?
A: Not everyone is aware that more
than one billion people, a sixth of our
global population, are members of co-
ops. And that cooperatives provide over
100 millionjobs around the world, 20
percent more than multinational en-
terprises! Cooperatives are also more
likely to succeed than privately-owned
enterprises. In the United States, 60-80
percent of private companies fail in
their ﬁrst year, while only 10 percent
of cooperatives fail during that period.
After ﬁve years, only three tovﬁve per-
cent of new U.S. corporations are still in
business, while nearly 90 percent of co-
ops remain viable. Cooperatives beneﬁt
communities by creatingjobs, retaining
wealth and increasing social connec-

tions among the people.

Q: Why have you chosen to live in Ven-
ezuela for the last six years as director
of the Prout Research Institute of Ven-
ezuela? What was your opinion of the
late President Hugo Chavez?
A: I have taught Prout and done social
service work for 35 years in Asia, Eu-
rope and Latin America. Ten years ago,
on June I, 2003, I was invited to meet
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on
his weekly television show to present
the Spanish edition of my ﬁrst Prout
book, which was published in Caracas.

He said, “Dada Maheshvarananda has
given us a book that we appreciate very
much. Your visit has come at such an
opportune moment.... Thank you very
much, brother, and let’s continue with
spirituality, spirit, good faith, moral-
ity and the mystical force that moves
the world. Dada Maheshvarananda and
other citizens of the world are welcome
to visit, especially those who come in
good faith’ and offer their ideas, their
spirit and their moral ﬂame to the Boli-
varian Revolution. This has attracted the
attention ofthe whole world, especially
those who struggle and dream ofa bet-
ter world, just as it says in After Capi-
talism.” His words inspired me.

Many of the goals of Prout are the
same as the goals of the Bolivarian
Revolution, such as to guarantee the ne-

cessities of life to all, to be self-reliant ’

in food, and for workers to manage

their own enterprises. President Chavez —

called for a “socialism for the 21st Cen-
tury,” but he admitted he did not know
exactly what that meant. Sarkar has

called Prout “progressive socialism”,
and I believe this is the most logical and
rational type of economic and social
system that will benefit all Venezuelans.

Q: Where can we see models of Prout
or economic democracy in practice?
Have any countries adopted Prout? Is
this model really practical?

A: The Future Vision Ecological Park

- outside Sao Paulo, Brazil is a model of

integrated rural development based on
Sarkar’s vision. Founded in 1992 by Dr.
Susan Andrews, the center teaches per-
sonal transformation through Biopsy-
chology and community transformation
through Prout to more than 9,000 course
participants each year. In the Philip-
pines, nine major regional Prout move-
ments are active, each with a different
language and ﬂag; together they have
formed a Proutist coalition called Ang
Kasama, which means “united compan-
ions” in Tagalog.

With 5,000 activists and 200 Proutist
leaders, they have adopted the slogan
“Our culture is our strength!” They
promote local languages and cultures,
start cooperatives, promote solidarity
among all Filipinos, and ﬁght against
pseudo-culture and psycho-economic
exploitation. In an extremely poor rural
district of Chhattisgarh, India, Pradeep
Shanna and 15 young Proutists have
started more than 100 village agricul-
tural cooperatives that are earning each
woman the equivalent of about $4 per
day for the produce they grow; chronic
malnutrition is disappearing, while the
purchasing capacity and quality of life
of the people are increasing. There are
many more.

Although examples of Prout coopera-
tives and communities exist on every
continent, the world has not yet seen
how this model can enrich the living
standard and quality of life of all in an
entire state or country. Personally, I be-
lieve that the Prout is the most complete
and practical way to solve the problems
of the world: to end hunger, poverty and
war, to protect and restore the natural
environment, and to bring a high quality
oflife to everyone. Prout is not a rigid
mold to be imposed on any society.
Rather, it comprises a holistic set of
dynamic principles that can be applied
appropriately to help any area prosper in
an ecological way.

 

   
  
  
  
  
  

_ URTESVQF «ERIN SULLIVAN
. _ _, , , .

   

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013

sports

   

.45

numbers
1

The total number offirst-place votes that Miami Heat player

 

Lebron James took for the NBA MVP voting. It was the
fourth time that he won the award. Oklahoma City Thunder
Kevin Durant was second and New York Knick Carmelo An-

thony was third.

6

Kevin Durant scored six of the final seven field goals for the
Oklahoma City Thunder in their Game 1 win in the second
round of the playoffs over the Memphis Grizzlies. He scored

35 points, had 15 rebounds, and six assists for the game.

44

The total number of wins that boxer Floyd Mayweather has
after he defeated Robert Guerrero by unanimous decision

on Saturday. He remained undefeated.

 139

The total number of runnings of the Kentucky Derby after
Saturday’s running. Orb won at Churchill Downs with jockey

Joel Rosario. The win gives trainer Shug McGaughey his first

ever victory at the Kentucky Derby.

 
 
  

 

“It was a difficult decision, and we talked
about it, but looking at the long—term and
the future of this organization,l felt it was
best to look elsewhere to try and ﬁnd the
right fit.”

-BrooldynNel3GeneralMana¢erBIllyKlngaboutnot
rulalnlng Head coach PJ. carleelmo. carleelmowentss-19
wlttithomlswhenhebecamelntierlmheadcoachaftar

replacing Avery Johnson, mm eepn.com

Athlete he Week

   

..~..._.

1

- i This weekis aihlete of the wee is Aaron
Jeong. Jeong tied the school record in the
100m on Saturday, running a 10.84 in
the prelims. Wes Boyd, clas of 1990, and
Marc Watson, class of 2001, also have run
a 10.84. Jeong just missed the same time

again in the finals, running a 10.85.

ondeck .

    

Lax takes ODAC title

By Leigh Dannhauser
spo RTS

EDITOR
is

Courtesy of Genersalssports.com

The road was not easy, but the Washington
and Lee women’s lacrosse team once again
hoisted the ODAC championship trophy on
Saturday after defeating Shenandoah 1 1-8.

The fourth-seeded Generals took on sec-
ond-seed Shenandoah in an away game re-
match of their loss earlier this season.

This time the Generals came out on top. It
was a tight ﬁrst half with W&L taking a slim
3-2 lead. The game remained close through-
out the entirety of the game, but the Generals
were able to gain some breathing room when
they started a 3-0 run under 19 minutes to go
in the game. Junior attacker Margaret Klein

 

scored two unassisted goals in a row to bring
the score to 7-4, quickly followed by fellow
junior midﬁelder Meade Brewster who added
another unassisted goal of her own.

Shenandoah was able to cut the lead down
to 8-6 with just under ten minutes to go but
W&L went on another 3-0 run to keep the
Hornets at bay. Shenandoah scored the ﬁnal
two goals of the game but it was not enough
to make up the difference.

Kleinfound the back of the net four times
in the afternoon to lead the Generals. First-
year midﬁelder Emily Conway contributed
three. goals of her own. In the net for W&L

The women’s lacrosse team won the ODAC title, having defeated Shenandoah on Saturday. ‘ '

was sophomore Cara Mulligan. She played
the full 60 minutes in goal, making ten saves.

Additionally, ﬁve Generals were named
to the all-tournament team. Mulligan, Brew-
ster, and Conway made the team along with
ﬁrst-year defender Rebecca Dean and junior
attacker Katie Hagen.

With the win W&L earns an automatic bid
to the NCAA tournament for the fourth year
in a row. The opening round is on Wednes-
day with the location and opponent yet to be
determined.

n

SAL
seeded Roanoke College broke open a 2-2
game with a three-goal run in the second
quarter en route to posting a 10-9 victory over
12th-ranked’ and third-seeded Washington and
Lee in the ODAC Men’s Lacrosse Champion-
ship Game on Sunday afternoon at Kerr Sta-
dium.

The Generals (15-4) knotted the game at 2-2

 with 2:55 left in the opening quarter when ju-

'-2

.‘. 1
1*}-‘.'»f' " ""éé‘.-' ilifs‘

nior midﬁelder Joe Wood (Bfonxville, N.Y./
Bronxville) scored unassisted on an extra-
man advantage. However, the Maroons (15-

- 3) seized control of the contest with their

aforementioned run that began just seven sec-

;;" onds into the second period. Senior attack-
:2; man Richard Lachlan scored all three goals in
' a span of 4:06, the last occurring man-up with

10:47 left in the half for a 5-2 lead.
Senior midﬁelder Cooper Brown (Balti-

 more, Md./Gilman) scored a pair of goals
 in the ﬁnal 8:08 of the half, and sophomore
S attackman Cameron Dabir. (Grosse Pointe
' Farms, Mich./Culver Academy) scored a goal

between a pair of Maroon tallies as Roanoke

 carried a 7-5 advantage into the half.

-T he Maroons pushed back out to a four.-goal

J. lead (9-5) early in the third quarter on scores
g: by ﬁrst-year attackman Tyler McWilliams and
 senior midﬁelder Mike Hayden, but the Gen-

erals climbed back to within three goals when
Dabir scored unassisted at the 3:33 mark of

 the third quarter.

W&L sliced the RC lead to 9-7 when sopho-

 more attackman Tyler Goldman (New York,

N.Y./Loomis Chaffee) scored off an assist
from Brown just 38 seconds into the ﬁnal pe-
riod. The Maroons made it 10-7 on a goal by

 ﬁrst-year attackman Will Pilat at 12:58, but

the Generals made a run at tying the game in
the ﬁnal minutes. Wood scored with 6:40 re-
maining and W&L made it a_ one-goal game

  

Tuesday Wednesday

Laemrosse Falls to ‘

-r

  

"'1 V  ‘in if 

(10-9) with 3:14 left when Dabir scored 0
a feed from Brown.

W&L received a man-up opportunity in the
ﬁnal two minutes, but Roanoke junior goal-
keeper Charles Pease posted a save with just
over a minute remaining andthe Maroons
possessed the ball for the rest of the game to
walk away with the title. _ ‘ " 1

Dabir led the Generals with four goals-' and
one assist, scoring his 100th careerlpoint in
the process. He now has- 103 career points.
Brown totaled two goals and twolassists, and
Wood ﬁnished with a pair of goals. Sopho-
more Warren ‘Berenis (Ocoee, Fla./Lake

Thursday

“Ne. . 1’ . ' 'n"_E.d' ‘ "’*‘";~’->5‘"U'**%"‘3*‘5€Y£¢:%&%5sTfJﬂ§2?~ﬂ&HiM%6W £*F§.

9

3. 

 il’rep) played the duration in goal} .

and made nine saves. Brown, Berenis and se- ,
nior defenseman Joe LaSala (Wilton, Conn./ 
Wilton) were all named to the all-toumamentfr‘
team. 
Lachlan pacedthe Maroons with four goals,
while Hayden had two goals and three assists. 
Pilat added one goal and three assists, and
Pease totaled 14 saves in goal. ' 

Washington and Lee will now wait to ﬁndf
out it if will receive an at-large bid to the
NCAA Division III Tournament which begins
with the ﬁrst round on Wednesday. The ﬁeld
will be announced this evening at 10:00 pm.

\
~

   
  

Saturday

 

Men’s Lacrosse

Women’s Lacrosse

1st round NCAA TBD

Men’s Tennis i

1st round NCAA TBD

2nd round NCAA TBD

3rd round NCAA TBD

Women’s Tennis

1st round NCAA TBD

2nd round NCAA TBD

3rd round NCAA TBD

Men’s Track atLynchburg

at Lynchburg

at Roanoke

women’s Track atLynchburg

 

at Lynchburg

at UVA Challenge

   
   

   

278.755
R551
v.|lb
vio.q_‘2..

 
 
    
  
   
       
 
    
   

' W LE U  
I ' ‘O
O ' . .
BY THE STUDENTSAND FOR ‘THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVII, NUMBER 22
O
‘ Traveller drivers were

recognized for their dedi~

cation to student safety on

Friday evening.
0

.\ \ ’

HI-\&L 1
Dear seniors...

So begins a love letter to
W&L. Seniors look back
at their most memorable
moments as they head into
their futures.

Friend us on
Facebook!

 

F. @ringtumphi

Have a story ideafor us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

F acebook with 

   
   
      
 

     
 

       
  

0
Arts& Life...7 ' F ‘  “   4 ' . ~ i
 Six W&L 
W4 ‘ Wednesda I ‘ .. i V
2»    3/ PHI AVVARDS .
»  Partly Cloudy A ~ , s  A
 _   " 0. 0 _  :Every year, the Phi recognizes four seniors from the
60 ' 83 A ‘' ‘graduating class for their impressive achievements. Edu-
*  *'" W?" W‘ ' m'*""" . ' cation goes“far beyond the classroom, and these students
 .4’?!  Z I rsday I have been noted for everything that they have done both
 -3: Part|yC|0UdY u [1 g :2,“-tr;:.ff.‘:3i:‘.:“:c:::r.%i;:e;::::‘;::i::;.:;:"e:::’;:§
 ” ’ 0 ° ° ' aisingover $30,000 for St. Jude’s Children’s Hospital,
7 7 _g  7_____i5iQ__   B Dane Davis ' these seniors stood out for their remarkable commitment
- y 4 ': anddedication. Regardless of what they have done, they
]7r[d(]; STAFF WRITER . , .
. y I V . .. . ~ 0 ha  made the most out of their four years at W&L.
~ ‘ Isolate t—storms  ' 1 ‘Congratulations to all of the winners!
59° 80°         
' After submitting the highest number of apes!’ ° " ' r i
’ ’”"’ FF" W ’F”’’ plications yet, six out of sixteen W&L students
\ S 61 I Z! Fda V have received Fulbright awards this year. ‘.  _
’ -   V After competing with almost 10,000 stu-. ’ -‘\
W Isolate tstorms dents across the country, seniors Max Chaps. ., V/ l“ .3 ’
58°. 83° nick, Derek Barisas, Rachel Urban, Isaac '
 V, H ._,,;__.,,___.. ..-,_,.,__ Webb, Bethany Reynolds and Kendre Barnes . .
HIM‘ , were selected for the Fulbright Award. _ student WhQ’.§.,gQi§1g.,_§  _ 
 " A  Sunda) -The Fulbright Scholar Program isan inter— kﬁet owner, not , j 
.g:;V\A‘,v-*  Partly Cloudy national exchange program sponsored by the‘ ‘ ofalab,  g l
O  61-O_ 840 U.S. government. It provides both US scholars " t;oAre'c_ei=’ve. M E‘:
W   7 and foreign scholars the opportunity to educate , S’ Q 5 A, 7 ‘ «=1 
. V...‘ 4_i"'""' WWW students, conduct research, and become im¥ M   
V?‘ “'4 Mme/I 2 ' V
  er ( C l mersed in their host country’s culture.’ -

   

 

--....

LEXll‘lGTON, VA 24450
MAY 1 6 2013

WAHNGTN 3 LEE UNIVERSITY

 
   

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

new

 

Travell

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER



pi

Director of Public Safety Michael
Young, Traveller Chair Megan Bock,
and Traveller Communications chair
Katie Jarrell presented a Certiﬁcate of
Recognition Award to Traveller Transit
drivers Dennis Patterson, Jerry Massie,
Chris Fauber, and James Hickman in a
ceremony Friday evening in Commons
Lobby.

John Smith was away, but will re-
ceive an award from Young next week.

“I could never imagine doing the job
that they do,” said Bock in an interview.
“They are very patient, they work very

hard, and I think everyone here really -

appreciates them.”

Bock described how the drivers go
out of their way to keep students safe.
For example, she said drivers‘ will pick
up students stuck at Windfall even if it is
past 2 a.m., when Traveller is scheduled
to shut down.

Patterson, who has been with Travel-
ler for two years, said he was grateful for
the recognition.

Impact

In the 2011-2012 school year, there
were 67,027 rides recorded on Traveller,
up from 56,854 the previous year.

Dean David Leonard, who has seen
Traveller evolve since he came to W&L
in 2003, described Traveller’s impact.

“Ideas for, improving the system
are often implemented,” he said, “and
we’ve witnessed a decline in the number
of charges for driving under the inﬂu-
ence and other tangential issues pertain-
ing to the law.”

Young said in an interview that al-
though one cannot measure the amount
oflives saved from Traveller, the system
has done a lot of good.

“The best part is the amount of kids
we get home safe,” he said.

“Most students are good passengers and good citizens,

but overcrowding at some oft/1e bus stops occasionally

leads to pushing and shaving to secure a seal. ”

DAVE LEONARD Dean of Student Life

 

2016 Mock Con Tri-
chairs announced

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

The 2016 Mock Convention Tri-
Chairs were announced last weekend.

Andrew McCaffery was named Gen-
eral Chair, Katherine Hodges was named
Political Chair and Tanner Waggoner
was named Executive Treasurer of the
quadrennial tradition at Washington and
Lee.

All Tri-Chairs are ﬁrst-year student
because the convention will be held dur-
ing their senior year. '

McCaffery said that he was drawn to

search on a grassroots and national level

' and acquiring prominent political speak-

ers for the convention.

Hodges’s interest in the position
comes from a serious interest in politics.
“Tri-Chairs have the most important re-
sponsibilities in Mock Convention and
I knew that there would be no position
more fulﬁlling in the organization than
Political Chair,” said Hodges.

Waggoner, a ﬁrst-year out of Scott-
sdale, AZ., will take the ﬁnal position

“We have already started working, believe it or not, af-

ter being selected the second weekend of Spring Term. ’

1

ANDREW McCAFFERY, General Chair

the position “by the opportunity to man-
age a company, as Mock Convention is
not just an event.”

“Mock Convention has...stuck out
as one of W&L’s most outstanding fea-
tures —- it’s that extra element that dis-
tinguishes us from so many other great,
similar schools,” said McCaffery. “This
is because Mock Convention is rooted in
student involvement, and showcases this
unanimous participation on a national
level.”

Not only is McCaffery excited to get
started on his work, but he also has big
plans and has put the wheels in motion
almost three years before the event. “We
have already started working, believe it
or not, after being selected the second
weekend of Spring Term,” said McCaf-
fery. “We are developing a hiring strat-
egy for the fall, as well as deﬁning our
long-term goals and hopes for the 2016
convention." »

Hodges’s main responsibilities as
Political Chair include overseeing the
regional and state chairs, conducting re-

of Executive Treasurer. The position
includes keeping track of the ﬁnancial
aspect of the event as well as handling
fundraising activities to raise funds.

Waggoner was interested in the po-
sition due to Mock Convention being a
“practical exercise of American Civics,
but also, an educational opportunity for
students to receive real-world experience
in nearly any subject that may interest
them.”

Waggoner said he looks forward to
building chemistry between the three
Tri-Chairs and recruiting- a Steering
Committee that has the same type of
chemistry.

“My primary goal for the convention
is to recruit an interdependent and moti-
vated sector of students for that speciﬁc
purpose,” said Waggoner. “Stemming
from the Tri-Chairs down to the State
Delegates, Mock Con is a student-run
organization, and its success depends
entirely on how we, as a collaborative
student-body, choose to function.”

Leonard continued to support what
Traveller has brought to the campus.

“It’s purely anecdotal, but increased
ridership has made more students aware
of those who may need extra assis-
tance,” he said, “and our students have
been more active in ensuring that intoxi-
cated students are placed in good hands
for the evening.”

“It does an awful lot of good, and
people don’t think about that,”‘Young
said.

Student Reaction

Young said that he is sometimes dis-
appointed in the way students treat driv-
ers and the Traveller system as a whole.

“It seems that there are a lot more
students now who take it for granted,”
he said. .

Leonard agreed that some students

can disrespect the Traveller system.
“Most students are good passengers

. and good citizens, but overcrowding at

some ofthe bus stops occasionally leads
to pushing and shoving to secure a seat,”
he said. “On occasion, those who have
consumed too much alcohol are unruly
to Traveller monitors and/or drivers.”

Bock said she also wishes students
gave more recognition.

In addition, Leonard added that many
people would prefer seeing less trash at
various Traveller stops.

Young expanded on the need for dif-
ferent attitudes from students.

“People work hard to make sure our
students are safe...and they shouldn‘t
be abused or cussed or thrown up on or
things like that,” he said. “Students need
to be a little more respectful...and re-
spect the system for what it is."

Knapp and Conner appointed to new

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER _

With spring comes new beginnings,
even in the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity faculty.

Elizabeth Knapp, associate provost
and associate professor of geology, has
been appointed senior assistant to the
president and director of the Johnson
Program in Leadership and Integrity.
Marc Conner, the Jo M. and James M.
Ballengee Professor of English and head
of the English Department and director,
was appointed associate provost.

Elizabeth Knapp

Knapp graduated from W&L in 1990
and returned in 1997 as assistant profes-
sor of geology. She received her PhD in
environmental science from the Univer-

campus positions

sity of Virginia, and teaches geochemis-
try, hydrology, and biochemistry.

Knapp has served as associate dean
of the college for four years, balancing
the responsibility with teaching and re-
search in the Geology department. She
joined the provost’s ofﬁce July 2011.
Some of her responsibilities included
undergraduate academic advising, new
faculty orientation, student research op-
portunities and teaching award nomina-
tions.

Previously held by Valerie Cushman,
the position has been redeﬁned.

Knapp will work with about 160
Johnson scholars currently attending
W&L, as well as administer the new
Johnson endowment, designed to help
Johnson scholars conduct special sum-
mer projects and research. She will also
asses the Johnson program, and work on
initiatives for the president’s ofﬁce.

Marc Conner
Conner joined W&L’s faculty in 1996

after receiving his B.A. from University
of Washington in English and Philoso-

‘ phy and PhD in English literature from

Princeton University. Conner created the
Spring Term program in Ireland, taking
W&L students there to experience the
literature and culture of Ireland since
he “started it in 2000” and is director of
Spring Term. Conner also teaches
courses in Shakespeare, the Bible as lit-
erature and courses in literature and reli-
gion and literature and philosophy. His
appointment as director of Spring Term
in 2010 has led to the creation of almost
300 new courses. He will continue to
serve as director while also serving as
associate provost.

‘‘I’m very excited about taking on
these new challenges, but also I feel a

bit daunted because it is a new set of
responsibilities,” said Conner. There’s a
set of high expectations for this position
but I’m looking forward to it, because
that’s obviously what I was seeking.”

Conner will perform two main roles
in his new position.

“There’s a whole lot of initiatives 1
get to work on, like spring term, faculty,
and students together, the other part is
more open-ended it’s really supporting
the new provost and all the other aspects
ofhisjob,” said Conner.

Conner will continue to teach one
course a year and will teach his Bible as
literature course the -upcoming fall term.

  

 

 

 

MON.DAY, MAY 13, 2013

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

EC sets
budget
allocations

By Rachel Adams-Heard
STAFF WRITER

The Executive Cointnittee held in-
terviews with student organizations to
decide budget allocations for the 2013-
2014 academic year last week.

Each year ar_ound 50 to 60 school
recognized organizations ﬁght for funds.
These funds come from the student ac-
tivity fee, which pays for student organi-
zations, as well as Traveler.

The process of allocating budgets to

5 these organizations is not an easy task.

The EC spends several days holding
interviews and meetings until an agree-
ment is made. Vice President of the Stu-
dent Body Daniel Raubolt plays a criti-
cal role in the process. As VP, Raubolt
is responsible for proposing an overall
budget plan to the rest ofthe Committee.

The EC looks over each organiza-
tion’s projected allocation as proposed
by the VP until all members reach a
consensus. Members then vote on the
overall budget, and the majority decides
whether or not it is passed.

“Usually, the General Activities
Board, Contact Committee, the Student
BarAssociation (the law schools student
government), and Mock Con receive the
most funding," said Raubolt.

These organizations all have high
expenses and are unable to generate the
necessary revenue on their own. Smaller
organizations that may not have as many
expenses or that earn money through
their own means typically receive less
funding from the EC.

Junior Matt Hesser was one of the
many student leaders vying for funds.
Hesser is presidentof I in 4, an all—malc
student organization that aims to prevent
rape and sexual assault.

Hesser said he wishes to expand the
organization and change the message
from one of harsh statistics to an encour-
agement of healthy relationships. As is
often the case, this expansion brings an

increased need for funding.

This year, the General Activities
Board was given the biggest alloca-
tion with‘ $120,000, followed by the
Student Bar Association with $109,000
and Contact Committee with $91,000.
Other large budgets include Fancy Dress
($18,000), Mock Trial ($16,500). Nabors
Service League ($14,000) and Mock Con
($10,000). 1 in 4 received $5,500, which
is comparable to the $5,250 allocated to
its female equivalent Speak.

Below is the full list of budget allo-
cations as posted in last Wednesday and
Thursday’s Campus Notices.

23 $l,l00 7

l in 4 $5,500‘
Active Minds $1,400
African Society $750
Arts League $1,500
Brazilian Club $350

Campus Community Coalition $1,500 '

Campus Kitchen $15,000

College Access $1,350
Community Financi_aI Freedom $2,250
Contact Committee $91,000 A
Dance Company $5,600 '
Engineers Without‘ Borders $3,100 I
ESOL $1,300 *
Fancy Dress'$l 8,000

GAB $120,000.

Genl)ev $7,000

German Club $50‘ ' 4
GLBT Equality Initiative $6.000
GRAAC $500 "
Habitat for Humanity $250

In General $4,800

.1 ubilee $900

LIFE $2,75_0

Literacy Campaign $1,000

Men‘s Volleyball Club $2,250
Mindbending $2,250

Mock Con $10,000

Mock Trial $16,500

Model UN $2,500

Muse $2,950 _

Nabors Service League $l4,0_00
l’.L A.Y. $1,500

P4T $2,000

PAACE $5,000

Parliamentary Debate Team $1,500
Peer Counseling $3,500

Political Review $2,000
Production $2,000

Quest Scholars $1,000

Relay for Life $2,000

Rugby $3,500

SABU $2,500

SAIL $6,000

SARAH $750

SBA $109,000

SEAL $1,900

SPEAK $5,250 ,

Student to Student $1-=,000

Students for St. .lt1de'$'l,f:00

WITS $350 '

Pakistan elections
a milestone

By Hannah Howard
STAFF warren

On May I 1 the people of Pakistan took
to the polls in what proved to be a monu-
mental election for the country.

The voting for this election shaped up
to be unlike any other Pakistani elec-
tion in the past. For the ﬁrst time in
the history of the state, political parties
were allowed to campaign in the Feder-
ally Administrated Tribal Areas (FATA).
This region didn’t even have the right to
“one person, one vote” until almost this
century.

Despite strength in the arena of trade,
people in FATA have never held much
-— if any -—- political power. Historically,
political representatives from this area
were not associated with any of the
political parties, but were instead iride-
pendents who merely supported the gov-
ernment at the time in order to receive
resources. .

“With the introduction of free cam-
paigning and the entry of political par-

ties proper into the race, as well as the
large number of independents, it is clear
that old electoral trends may no longer
hold,” said Analyst Zalan Khan, before

the election. “What they are to be re-

place by, however, remains to be seen.”
This landmark election and the cam-
paigning that led to it displayed a ﬁerce
battle between six of Pakistan’s largest
political parties. These include the Awa-
mi National Party (ANP), a left wing,
secular, Pashtun nationalist party; the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM),
a secular, liberal but ﬁscally conserva-
tive group; the Pakistan Muslim League
- Nawaz (PML-N), a center right, con-
serxative party that was the lead_ing op-
position in the outgoing parliament; the
Pakistan Muslim League A Quaid (PML-
Q), a center right party formed by defec-
tors from PML-N; the Pakistan People’s
Party (PPP), a secular, socialist group
that was the incumbent party heading

 

into the May 11 election; and ﬁnally, the
Pakistan Tehreek-e-lnsaf (PTI), an anti-
status quo and anti-corruption party that
was the “wildcard” in this year’_s parlia-
mentary election.

Throughout the campaign season, Pak-
istan has been consumed with violence.
On May 9, the son of former Pakistani
Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani was
kidnapped. People on a motorcycle and
others in a car opened ﬁre on the prime
minister and his son during a campaign
rally then forced his son into a car.

The campaign was also hampered by
threats from the Taliban. The vote that
took place on Saturday was a democratic
milestone for a country ruled for so long
by its military. For quite some time it
looked like this milestone would be pre-
vented by potential suicide bomber at-
tacks at polling stations.

On the eve of the election, one of the
candidates was shot and killed along

with two of his supporters while cam-
paigning in Karachi, the ﬁnancial capital
of the state. The attack was the last of
many along the campaign trail, which
brought the death tdtal to 127 since mid-
April. .

On May 10, as it all was coming to an
end, 600,000 polling staff and 70,000
army and security forces were deployed
to the various stations throughout the
country. The election was one deﬁned
by a “raucous mix of celebration and
violence,” according to reporter Asad
Hashim. -

The ﬁnal voting process had 15,000
candidates competing for 849 seats.
There were explosions at a few polling
stations but overall, the day was marked
by an outpouring of democratic partici-
pation. Voting hours were even extended
in many cities. »

The country must now wait patiently
for the results of this landmark election.

Continued from Fulbright
scholars      

By Krysta Huber

Chapnick added that he believes the
purpose of the Fulbright scholar pro-
grams is to emphasize the importance of
being a cultured individual.

“ln my understanding, the mission of
the Fulbright grant is to provide students
with unique study abroad experiences,”
he said. "Andin doing so, foster cross-
cultural awareness.”

The program offers three different op-
portunities. Students can apply to work
as researchers, English teaching assis-
tants or in the arts. W&L will be repre-

sented in each area.

Chapnick is the ﬁrst W&L student to
be working and studying in the arts pro-
gram. Chapnick will be studying in New
'/.caland, where he will cam a Masters in
Writing for the Page in Poetry at the In-
ternational Institute of Modern Letters at
Victoria University.

He will be completing a Masters thesis,
which in.volves writing a poetry manu-

_ script. Chapnick’s poetry will focus on

the intersections ofpoetry and physics.
In addition to the Master program,
Chapnick will also be auditing graduate-

. level physics classes at Victoria Uni-

versity. And he will be teaching middle
school and high school students how
writing and science can work as comple-
merits.

Chapnick said he is conﬁdent that his
experience will prepare him well for
graduate school and his future.

“I think that the opportunity to live on
my own in a foreign country as a repre-
sentative in the US will teach me a host
of invaluable skills, whatever I do next,”
he said.

Urban and Barnes were selected to
work as English teaching assistants in
Bangladesh and Panama, respectively.

But after much consideration, Urban
decided to turn the opportunity down to
attend graduate school at the University
of Michigan. Urban received a full fel-
lowship and a living stipend for the uni-
versity’s Masters program in Japanese
Studies. '

“The Center for Japanese Studies at the
University of Michigan is the oldest in-

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Meet the scholars! From leftﬁto right: Kenclre Barnes, Isaac Webb, Derek Barisas, Max Chapnick, Rachel Urba

cause she felt it would be a great setting
to gain teaching experience and explore
her intellectual curiosities.

“I have a particular interest in ques-
tions concerning race, identity, literature,
and the experience of diaspora and mar-
ginalized communities and voices in the
Spanish—speaking world,” she said. “And
Panama has such a rich history as a ra-

“Fulbright awards are given to students who have a

global perspective. The student who ’s going to be out

talking to a market owner, not spending their entire day

inside of a lab, is the type of individual who is going to

receive this award. 

JANET IKEDA, W&L Fulbright Scholar Program Adviser
 

terdisciplinary center in the US devoted
exclusively to Japanese Studies, so it
was quite an honor to receive this oppor-
tunity,” Urban said.

Urban plans to reapply for the Ful-
bright Scholar program in the future.

“I am really sad that I wasn’t able to do
the Fulbright this year, because it’s some-
thing that I feel so passionate about,” she
said. “I sincerely hope that I’ll be able to
have the opportunity to do it again.”

Barnes, a Spanish and English major at
W&L, said the Spanish department had
a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on her decision to
apply for the Fulbright award.‘

“I am extremely grateful for [the de-
partment’s] conﬁdence and encourage-
ment throughout the entire process,”
Barnes said.

Barnes said that she chose Panama be-

cial, ethnic, and socio-economic cross-
road between North America and South
America.”

Barisas, Reynolds and Webb were all
selected for Fulbright’s research pro-
gram.

Barisas will be doing genetic testing
of the black-tailed godwit in Iceland. He
said that Iceland’s unique environment
encouraged him to select the country for
his Fulbright experience.

Reynolds will travel to China, where
she will be conducting education re-
search for migrant children in China’s
Zhejiang Province.

Webb declined to comment on his ex-
perience, but will be conducting research
in the Ukraine. V

When discussing the application pro-
cess, Ikeda and many of the Fulbright re-

     
  

  

n, Bethany Reynolds.
cipients stressed the importance of start-
ing early. lkeda said that she is happy to
see sophomores and juniors in her ofﬁce
to start conversation about the Fulbright
programs.

“The application process only has one
on-campus interview and after that the
selection committee relies on the stu-
dents’ paper application,” Ikeda said. “It
is important for me to get to know the
students well so that I can help them be
sure their application conveys who the
are.” -

Ikeda added that her experience as the
Fulbright program adviser has given her
the opportunity to meet many interesting
and driven students.

“Working with this year’s group was
very enriching,” Ikeda said.

Urban and Barnes strongly encouraged
anyone interested to apply. Urban said
that the application process is beneﬁcial
to the job search in general, even if a stu-
dent isn’t selected for the program.

“You will have the experience of writ-

 

..ing a personal statement and putting

together a resume? all of which are
necessary skills for other postgraduate
applications,” Urban said.

Barnes added that applying for a Ful-
bright grant is inspiring.

“We can never see what the outcomes
of our decisions and efforts will be, but
leaving ourselves open to be surprised
and learn is an experience that cannot
be underestimated,” she said. “Those are
the experiences and the moments that
in the end we are not only grateful for,
but that encourage someone else to start
their own journey.”

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI ' . MONDAY, MAY 13,2013

The  and :-
Of 2012-2013 ‘

D~Ha11f Steps it Up     , Puppy Love
Aﬂhoughryour Waisﬂine may not be President Ruscio’s family adopted a furr
lovin’ D-Halls new improvements, it is new member named Muey this year At y

 I S M I ’2?rI:yI:fI:::;;::_I/mrgtz :‘?Zr’Zae'E).CeI‘Il_e'SS p only 6 months old, Miley is already a ‘ A .

    

YouTube sensation.

:=- - - . -
 E‘! Eﬁ;I§$.

The beloved specialty fries L , 0
were removed from the Co— "I
Op’s menu leaving many ‘

heartbroken students... Aldisterslhit campus

, , SPOTTED on campus: Ron
. V « ’ Paul, Hillary Clinton (well, at V

   I . ‘ VMI), and Aaron Ralston. Can I
‘   L get an autograph, please? .
I The line between “raise the

roof” and “put ‘em up” got

blurred this year ascops

became the new unwanted -
guests at country parties.

We’re,
like, never
getting ‘ I
_ back
as;   5   together’
%ﬁ@’T-‘@559’; ' ' I   like ever.
9::   

  

 

_ TSwift new

PIKA, FIJI, and Kappa Singb, “We Are
Sig all get the boot. For Never Getting

one reason or another, all B k T th ,,
three frats were kicked off bjgamggtﬁe er .
campus...some for longer new bre‘ak_up

than others. . .anthem_ .

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF JULIANNA SATTERLY  . <-
NEWS EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY '  .
OPINIONS EDITOR ALLIE WEISS I  I
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR CYNTHIA LAM

SPORTS EDIToR LEIGH DANNHAUsER  5 -
» HEAD COPY EDITOR GRAHAM coLToN ’ I , Party L1k€
DESIGN EDIToRs JULIA LANG .

ALLIE wEIss' _ TVS 

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR SARA KORASH-SCHIFF

P I P = " Fancy Dress
STAFF WRITERS RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD , I 

LINDSEY BURKE

3/,;I;<;,L,',,~E,,;*,*;,I,",,**,, QISASEES %'!!!(E$. I Fitzgera|d’s

g,I::,gI,A,I;,I,;§:g,      greatest
YEIEAN KIM ‘ . i — character to life 0
- ANDREA OWEN From the fire on Preston
. for attendees.
Street to Hurricane Sandy, the with an the
BUSINESS MANAGERS DAVID wILsoN' elements were never in our
DILLoN MYERS favor glamour of the
DISTRIBUTION STAFF MIcHAEL DoNNELLAN -  s - ,
JONATHAN sELL_s' ; Roaring 203:
KANE THoMAs p _ the Gatsby

 
     

theme was a
hit.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-TUM PHI to accurately,
truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting the Washington and Lee
community for students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable. Through our
reporting, we aspire to spark discussions that lead to discovering information
that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the undergraduate school year.
THE RlNG»TUM PHI is a member of‘The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI welcomes
all letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions for content and length.
Letters and advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-
TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel and
obscenity.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY coMMoNs ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060 I ‘-
FAX: (540) 458-4059 - » 5 . .
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU I '
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

Performing
for Parent’s
. Weekend

The Gennies
brought their A-game
Parent’s Weekend.
Aka, they actually
won...and people
actually wentto the
game.

The Phi Gets a
Much~Needed.

Makeover

After attending

a conference in
SanFran, the Phi
staff gives thepaper
a little primping and
pampering. Get
ready for a totally
revamped paper in
the upcoming year!

 

£37, 5% g!.§§:‘=%

Student favorite, Clay

Coleman, headed south to

sunny Florida.

  Gettin’ Derby
Sigma Chi’s Derby Days, as
always, kicked off Spring Term
with a bang. W ‘

EEFEEE ' A E!‘="5E.E
'53?! #55? t

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

Magorly Crushm’ Out
Campus cuties got their day when
social media pages such as WLUCrush
and Compliments allowed students
to pour out their heart and soul
anonymously. WLUBeef on the other

hand“.

  

Derby Days and cat fights,
oh my! Between a broken
nose and a broken elbow,
the F rosh clearly took their
competition seriously.

 gratings

 "'2' i"=i!?§
Srat row was blessed with

several smelly inhabitants
this year. A

%=‘§§?.-ii 
nsessas    

 ‘E9
1: 2&2‘: EE'€?s§5!!!§

The infamous Mark Collins
hacks the wlu.edu mail

' system. Who wouldn’t want

10 emails a day about
becoming his “|ucky new
assistant”?

5 E "5 so ?§§!'!'§E-£5!-if:
..nl5.ai:‘»2.;§;ea

Students called it a night early on
Ha|loween’s Windfall Wednesday
not because they “had too much
fun”; rather, it was because of the
unexpectedly early arrival of the
P0 P0.

i§§§%'=§ﬁ§.%- — ﬁgs:
sags ass:-was

-Students were saddened to

learn of an EC hearing that
was open to the student body.

A Though it never happened, the A
trial was a reminder ofjust how  

seriously we take our Honor
System.

 

2';  Even after Dominos
 and Papa Johns turn
 ~ off their ovens for the
y  .’ night, munchies are
I  still available. As of
if  this year the Co-Op
  remains open until 2
 ,__?- AM.

  It’s a

 - T Snowpocalypsei

When it comes down
to it, students will
chose sledding over .
Sociology any day.

Several Fridays were

snowed out...who

wouldn’t wanta three-

day weekend?!

The Ultimate

T Midnight Snack

Hub

4:

l

||e[e is to a
  Elﬁﬂllﬁall

 

- THE RING-TUM PHI °

ﬁeztzéaﬂﬂ/5’

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

  . /aye/w V °
£072!/I/£0

Hometown: Buffalo, NY

Major(s)/Minor(s): English and Classics
Activities: RA, Students for St. Jude, Work Study
in University Store, Latin Tutor, FYOC

Awards: Richard J. Miller Physical Education
Scholarship, Residential Adviser of the Month

“Be yourself, and put 100%
into everything you do. While
academics areimportant, know
when to put down the bool<s-
W8<L isn’tjust about the GPA!”

“Don’t stop yourself from
experiencing, growing, and
changing through your time at
college._This is a great environ-
ment for you to ﬁgure things
out; explore your options and
paths. I'm a much different per-
son, with much different goals
and priorities, than when I first
came here.”

Hometown: New Orleans, LA
Major(s)/Minor(s): Physics—Engineering and Eco—
nomics

Activities: Honor Advocate, Sigma Nu, Volunteer
at Hull's Drive—In, Habitat for Humanity

Awards: Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma

- ggeczy./awe;

Hometown: Monroe, LA

Major(s)/Minor(s): Journalism and Mass Communications
Activities: Rocl<bridge Report, inGeneral Magazine, Kappa Del-
ta, Voting Regulations Board, Mock Convention

Awards: Rouse—Bottom Journalism Scholarship

“Remove the word, ‘maybe,’ from your vocabulary.
Commit yourself to your actions, decisions and
goals sooner rather than later, so you don't look
back and wonder where you made a wrong turn”

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

Hometown: Milford, DE

Major(s)/Minor(s): Politics and Religion .

Activities: Varsity Swimming, Track and Field, Omicron Delta
Kappa, RA, Special Olympics,1 in 4, Phi Kappa Psi

Awards: Phi Beta Kappa, General of the Month, 3-Time Swim-
ming School Record Holder, Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award;
Scholar—Athlete for Track and Field and Swimming

“Ta|<e advantage of the many incredible opportuni-
ties that are available only at W8<L. We have some
of the most brilliant, but also the most helpful and
caring professors invthe country as well as one of
the strongest and most honorable communities
anywhere. Use these to get the most of your time
at W&L because it goes very quickly.

Hometown: Lorton, VA

Major(s)/Minor(s): Economics/Poverty

Activities: Alpha Delta Pi, Bonner Scholar, Campus
Kitchens, Students for St. Jude, Student to Student
Mentoring, l<athe|<on

Awards: Danny Thomas Leadership Scholarship for
Executive Director of the Year (St. Jude), Johnson Op-
portunity Grant, Cabell Brand Scholarship

“Your life will never again
be as simple as it is now, but
instead of wasting your time,
ﬁnd the things that will de-
ﬁne not only your college

 experience but also your life,
whatever they may be, and
make those a priority”

  

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&life

. Mandatory Heartwarming,
Slightly Sappy Graduation Letter

 

 

With graduation Vightr.

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

   

  

  

una’ the corner, seniors reﬂect on the highlights of their past four years here at W&L

they 0

awesome f w J09 J9
, pf vet‘! 01/'

t1"l6ute to e 6 St owl ofna e two
It was a 0 Wu [e ’W [ Ytyneﬂt.

-. . it sw r, )9 tire of 0‘

, A A I ashe , t an n 7, they
._ x * coufof WV event 70 esso 0‘: 1% flow eSS(:JYS, the
"  th1’@e “Egg 5 of ’W om the?) “gout ’tfL<’/1,1,/g3,,(f“st1"o1”L£3 Ye-

‘. r . ~u
"am “ u]7}0° t Sys gffrequeﬂtfg Past f0
we Kd them

01’ tfy C
— ent pe1’$0"’ e y  etfec,
Wﬁlffjcftétiever the casOe,6(Ia Flo)” of nut V to [at g q oflnsteatf, waYd:11’1L/51,];
t ' , 0 T11 1110 9
afwt/1‘j}(::w;:,¢) [ t’s Pride (fright around the co §:get who
731“, , tw’e 15 . em’ 5 , there 15
the immhuhhn f r the Past fihltrrrgovy? TOY 5 fnostafgia’ u Si1’lCeYeW’ unity of Stuiems
[efs foo favor e , ﬁadg the ['11 Smg e The Comm
ha bring f 0 am“
Do you ﬁat Vvlafoyev 1’ T5 are Jumb e f ﬁadt
moment ‘F [ tﬁetrfo ‘J2’/(“WW to man ,
Wwmyyeoﬂv : ed “lave ct dug). mortes irwofv R
e  ﬁne Sutﬁe EC?/Flroge $’[6ll’ld’01/It  mem y was EA/1t
Stmte everyon » hose favor of th Wm’
for .1:Lea]ez[1’L1’L1f Y mtmi, lcfaiice com? ﬂy’ pee who M“ e
fr1e;g,?9s- Y5“ 5 with t f 0W5 t at 1t LS 0 fang hours 5}’
wee Eefgsexjie Btr 1e,d grate “IVS t gays hsome
Cast 0 ‘J. Sat 9 mt it s 61 W
‘te me ormtlnce" »
3:13-22-  eztizi  at“: th  cw 9::
on 5 0 -
heSt,7’e0ye(:’ ca it .lC°Yg:,: a &L ’ W? pyttofz ve1’V 6
9.[0’vV€V ’ 2 Ce 1/ fl t (ea?-1/1 Y 1
heavily  Zfiﬁf Mldw O
sors aw 1"

Reason #2  pring Term Rocks

The classes - all of them. Students go beyond the classroom, from Hawaii to Belize, to gain rea

By Lindsey>Burke , _ 
STAFF WRITER "

'2. -7 1 5- .;'‘~
1' H A T h ‘

       

l, ﬁrsthana’ experience

"9&':§‘_;.¢.r»

From biking the terrain of local Lex-
ington to snorkeling the waters of Be-
lize and Hawaii, spring term courses at
Washington and Lee clearly aren’t con-
ﬁned to the classroom.

This term, courses offered include

,Mountain Biking, the Economics of

Tropical Coastal Seascapes, Self Help
and the Pursuit of Happiness, and the
Geology of Hawaii.

For sophomore Holley Beasley, leam-
ing economics while travelling to Belize
has been an unmatchable opportunity in
her time at W&L thus far.

“It was an awesome experience,” said
Beasley, a student in the Economics of
Tropical Seascapes. “We got to see ﬁrst-

 

 

hand what we have been reading about
in class.”

This economics class, taught by Pro-
fessor Casey, applies economic survey-
ing techniques with environmental pres-
ervation in Belize. According to Beasley,
the class studied “tourists’ willingness to
pay to keep whale sharks from going
from vulnerable to extinct.” in order to
experience the nature around them and
understand their studies through obser-
vation, the class did various activities
such as snorkeling, a monkey river tour
through the rainforest and a crocodile
hunting tour.

“The opportunities were once in a life-
time,” said Beasley. It is clear that these

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

  

‘_'Liz Ols h.’exari1In‘e_s rocks dun[i3i‘g'

 
   
  
   

S, ‘ Econ-288 students were able to turn their
’ pages of their textbooks into real life.
g Other students chose to venture into
'1. the landscapes of Lexington. Head
men’s soccer coach Rolf Piranian taught
Mountain Biking this term. Since Pirani-
- an ﬁrst introduced the P.E. course in the
1990s, students have come out from the
i ’- adventures, both enthused and satisﬁed.
Piranian describes himself as an “avid
outdoorsman,” and has been a mountain
biking advocate since he was introduced
to the sport in the 1970s. The class rides
Mondays and Saturdays, where there is
 never a dull moment. This year, most

Sophomore lg Iey A. ‘
crocodile on e Be‘

 

rides have been plagued by rain.

“There are a lot of war stories,” said
Piranian about the course. “Every trip,
there’s something new.”

For those looking for a less intense
class, Self Help and the Pursuit of Hap-
piness also provides real-life explana-
tion through observation. According
to the syllabus, the course relates the
pursuits to religion, by considering
the “philosophical, psychological, and
medical-scientiﬁc perspectives on these
pursuits.” The class meets Monday and
’Wednesday, with yoga on Tuesday and
Thursday, and meditation on Wednesday

afternoons.

“I have learned topics that are incom-
parable to any other class I’ve taken at
W&L,” said senior Mike Jensen about
the class. “Yoga and meditation allow us
to apply concepts we’ve learned in the
classroom to realistic settings.” '

Whether students are enjoying the sun
exploring Hawaiian topography or trav-
elling to the local Shakespearean theater
in Staunton, it is clear that spring term
this year has provided students with
ﬁrsthand experience combined with
their studies.

 

  WAS 

 
 

UNIVERSITY sro    

Celebrating “a place like no other”

Congratulates the Class of 2013!
   r-f‘
    4’   _     .3
  BaccalaureatcServ1ce \§
Wednmday, May 22
'   10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

 

  

Graduation
Thursday, May 23
10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

celebrate this accomplishment
with
a special remembrance 

GRADUATION SPECIAL STORE HOURS  

Saturday, May 18, 10:00 a.m. — 5:00 pm.
Sunday, May 19, 10:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.

Thank you for helping the University
by patronizing your UNIVERSITY STORE!

All revenues go directly  University scholarships, salaries 
  and Lee  budget.

 

 GTON AND LE

 

 

 

 
 

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

 

By Leigh Dannhauser ' S 
sPoRTs EDITOR

,  G  .i‘].'i-ii == '

’ '1 M4 I ‘S .’   .
. iii, 1 _  
.~.: i‘- « -.  -
““ 1 “I 4
.

.  +4, _

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team came out on the ’ ‘

losing end of a 13-6 decision in their NCAA tournament opening
round game at York.

York, ranked ninth in the nation, opened up the game with seven
straight goals. Sophomore attacker Catherine Klinedinst was the

-~ E»? first General to ﬁnd the back of the net with just under 12 minutes

remaining in the ﬁrst half.
Washington and Lee was outscored 10-4 in the iﬁrst half and was
not able to make up the deﬁcit.
Junior Meade Brewster scored three ofthe Generals’ six goals.
‘ ~ Leading the way for York was Leah Schultz who scored ﬁve times.
‘:11 3?. Kim Wayson and Erica Mulford also scored three times each for the
 . Spartans. »
it The Spartans held the advantage in shots on goal, 21-14. W&L
’ sophomore goalkeeper Cara Mulligan and Spartans’ goalkeeper

   
   
 

ii ‘ Ashley‘ Smith both played the full 60 minutes forltheir teams and _

each made eight saves

even 10-10 overall record and a 7-3 conference record while win-
‘ ning the conference title.

' THE RING-TUM PHI '

..sports

 

  ork ends Generals’ seaso

. 5 W&L falls in theﬁrst round of the NCAA tournament 13-6

      
   
  
 

-; The loss ends the season for the Generals. They ﬁnished with an i

VNASIPIINGTSONS AND LEE

 UniversitySt0re Q’    

'l:tt".'iI.‘?d3‘3"tTl'il..l‘?:£f ' <1‘ ,i'.:'t':7-.i'»r !i'.|':e ma r.I.i'.l:er”

 

   

Buoy 1 or lull lll

“Hands Downthe Tastiest Truckstop in America” '
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

   

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join us for one of ourALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday& Sunday6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week10:30 am . 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loinii am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet it pm -2 am  

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu oniine

. or .1 «,'.‘:-r~

    

59%;;

V  Twitter @berkysfood

 

    Find us on Face book

i-81 &|-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450 3

Undergraduate -Students
DO YOU T CASH FOR SUMIMER?

.Ft'nishaa' Exams? Before leaving campus,

bringyuur books to the 0d COIHHIOHS 

‘ I 'extbook Buyback!
. . . Get sash (up to 5l}% of value of book)!
. . . Help your store obtain n1o«re used and cheaper hooks for your future semesters!

6 Days in the Elrod Commons’ Atrium

Thursday & Friday, May 16 & 17, 9 a.m. — 6 pm.
Saturday & Suruday, Belay 18 & May 19, 10 a.m. -4 pm.
Monday & Tuesday, May 20 & 21, 9 am. -4 6 pm.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

10 " THE RING-TUM PHI‘ “

Congrats to all sports teams
for contributing to W&L’s
win of the Dan Wooldridge
Cup for the 11th year in a

row!  

 

soapbox

“I look at it that baseball has high
standards for their umpires and I have
high standards for myself and I didn’t
meet those standards last night, so I am
absolutely OK with everything.”

-MLB umplre Floldln culbraﬂnaftarbelngsuspendedfortwo
wneson Fﬂdqyforallamrigﬂousliormsunsmoldenianacar

BoPoruertolmproperlychan¢aroI|efpItchorsIn1homIddIe
dfan|nnlrig.PoI1arwasaI|owed1nclIalI¢op|u:herstwlce
whenthe1IrstpIt:::herhadn’tfacedasIn¢obaunr.11ieruIes
emetiiatpltclienlnaveinfacoatleostoriebaunrmvan
whenapllnch hluerlsaerrtuplnplaooorwhotheythought
wasorUnaIlygolngtobeat1hep|a1B.fromE$PN.com

“if! can inspire people by doing what I
think is easy, that's awesome.”

-H|gheehoolpolevaul|nrchar|oﬂnBmwn,whop|aoed
elghu1In1heTaiassurIneIiamp|orishlpmeetevan1houm
shels|eallybIlnd.sheuaesuirfmataIon¢aldo1herunwqy
tomnsualglrnandoounlshorsiepsandllsuamforher
coaohforwhen1n1aloofl',fmmE.SPN.oom

thlete of the Week

 

This week’s athlete of the week is junior
Leanne Stone. Stone was chosen for as

an All-American earlier this week. _Stone,

as a defender, also won First Team All-
Chesapeake Region honors and First Team
All-ODAC honors. She was selected for
Third Team All-American honors for her first
A/I-American honor.

What is your earliest memory of lacrosse?

I remember playing pass with my dad in our backyard before 5th
grade tryouts. I actually remember being so frustrated because I was
dropping every pass and had no idea how to throw. The other sports
I was playing at the time like basketball and soccer had come natural
to me, but lacrosse deﬁnitely did not. I remember being so nervous
and hesitant to even tryout, but my parents told me to at least just try
it. Most of .my friends were trying out as well so that was also a con-
vincing factor. I don’t really remember the tryouts, but I’m assuming
I had a lot of fun and I’m pretty sure the sport grew on me really fast!

What’s been your favorite moment playing lacrosse?

I think the end of our season this year, bringing home the ODAC
trophy, was deﬁnitely one of the highlights of my lacrosse career.
Both in the semiﬁnals against Guilford and then in the ﬁnals against
Shenandoah we were the lower ranking and both teams had beaten
us earlier in the regular season. To have a second chance to play both
teams who we knew were beatable made the tournament competi-
tion that much more exciting for us. And then taking that second
chance and coming_out of top was such a rewarding feeling. Even
more so, I would say, than in years past when we were the #1 ranking
and the expected winner. During a team retreat at the beginning of
the season, we were asked if we would rather be the underdog or not.
Almost everyone answered that they would rather be the underdog,
and after winning the championship, I think all of our opinions were
conﬁrmed.

What’s next for you? Do you have goals set for next year?

I deﬁnitely want to get another ODAC championship, but more than
that I just want to enjoy my last year of playing a sport competitively
at the collegiate level. For me, I tend to do my best when I’m just
‘enjoying myself and remembering why it is I play a sport in the ﬁrst
place (to have fun!) I am so grateful that I have been given the op-
portunity to continue doing something I absolutely love, and I just
really want to soak up everything I love about it for my last season.

ondeck

  

Men’s Lacrosse

By Graham Colton 4 -.""‘
COPY EDITOR

    

5: ' 
ifseniorplac ' _

In the opening round of the NCAA Divi-
sion III Toumament on Wednesday, May 8 at
Wilson Field, the eighth-ranked Washington
and Lee University men’s lacrosse team beat
Sewanee 19-6.‘

Early in the second period, the Generals
scored six straight goals to raise the tally to
9-2. During the scoring surge, senior mid-
ﬁelder Jack Switala and sophomore attack-
man Cameron Dabir each had two goals
and one assist. At 12:37 of the second pe-
riod, Dabir, assisted by junior midﬁelder Joe

Season ends, but team I
ties school record for
victories.

".“_(‘y£_nnux.»£7T-‘L v":

The eighth-ranked Washington and ‘Lee
University men’s lacrosse team was up-
set by the 12th-ranked Salisbury Univer-
sity Seagulls by a score of 7-4 in the second
round of the NCAA Division 111 Men’s La-
crosse Tournament last Saturday at Wilson
Field.

Salisbury opened the game at a torrid pace,
with two quick goals from ﬁrst-year attack-
man Brady Dashiell, scoring unassisted at
1:19 and again at 10:53 with some help from
junior attackman Rhett DePol. With only .1 .5
seconds remaining in the opening period,
sophomore midﬁelder Kyle Goss, assisted
by senior attackman Evan I-Iammersly, found
the back of the net.

wt.’-

  

 

cﬁ ‘ Thirteen different Generals scéore

V .1

. ~ge_!.':a"w;lear shot.‘ .
 '«a-nviiasisiaigti;-.1.  "F Jr:-I   v”
Wood, scored a man-up goal: A few goals
later, Switala ﬁnished off the Generals’ tlurr)
with goals at 8:38 and 5:39. Senior midﬁelder
James Millard stopped the bleeding for the "li-
gers at 4:51. At the end of the period. W&l..
led comfortably by a score of 10-3.

W&L began the third period with three con-
secutive goals in the ﬁrst 3:54 to break the
game wide open, by a score of 13-3.

With the win, the Generals tied the program
record for wins in a season, going to 16-4
overall.

Men’s Lax Ousted

l

by saliuryv

Inw-

. 2 H V
r ‘  ‘
*1‘ 5 : .

Only 28 seconds into the second period, ‘I
DePol scored to pad the Seagulls’ lead to ”

4-0. At 9:43, however, senior attackman
Mac Means put the ball in the back ofthe net
all by himself. Only 1:29 later, sophomore

attackman Tyler Goldman did the same,‘

shifting momentum to the Generals and the
score to 4-2.

Just before the break, though, Salisbury.

regained control of the game, as sophomore
defenseman Knute Kraus converted on a

man-down in transition with 2:04 left before

the end of the period.

In the third period, the only goal was tallied ,

by junior attackman Luke Phipps at 5: I 9.

Generals goalkeeper Warren Berenis keeps his eye on the ball.

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information.

Tuesday Wednesday I

   

Thursday

; ‘in an NCAA Tournament opening-
round rout.

For the Generals, Switala led in scoring xx ith
three goals and one assist; Dabir lxcpl pace
with two goals and one assist; and sopliomoI‘e
attackman (‘am Lewis. senior .’,|ll2‘.Cl\’1!lLl1l Mac
Means and first-_Vear iniclliolrltw "lirixtirin
Zane-lis each con‘u*il)utl.r<.l ‘mo goals.

For the Tigers. Senior niin.ll'iclder l)re\\‘
Lincoln scored twice and junior 'clII1lL‘l~;m£ll1
Michael Morris assistc<.l on mo <__>-0:115; xxbilc
scoring one.

-aa_._~ . f, A

 

Saturday _

    

Women’s Lacrosse

Men’s Tennis

Women’s Tennis

‘Men’s Track

at Swarthmore

Women’s Track

at Swarthmore

B88 L2~P7553

11/25/13 18388 Sm

an

    

  
   
   

 

