One worked in an office, one
worked with mules. Two
students tell two very

Women ’s soccer goes
to 6-0 as Karen Treese

different stories about their
summer jobs. '

FEATURES

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 2

SPORTS

extends her "all-time
W&L goal scoring lead.

@ PAGE4 @

ﬂing -

Sorority housing
location decided

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
NEWS EDITOR

There’s no place like home.

No one knows this better than
Washington and Lee’s sororities,
which are now one step closer to ﬁ-
nally having a place to call their own.

At a meeting of Dean of Students
David Howison, Dean Leroy “Buddy”

A Atkins, Panhellenic Council members

and sorority presidents Wednesday, a
much-anticipated consensus was
reached on the type of sorority houses
the university will build and where
they will be constructed.

But the Board of Trustees still
needs to consider the resolution at
their meeting in early November.

The actual date for contruction has
not yet been set. “We still need to
decided on an architect and other

plans,” Panhellenic Housing Chair-,

man Katherine McAlpine said. “I see
the best case scenario being 1999.”
“I am confident that the Board will
approve it,” Panhellenic Council
President Laurence Phillips said. “But

' there are no guarantees.”

If the resolution is passed, the uni-
versity will build five sorority houses
in the Woods Creek Ravine area,
southwest of the Footbridge, near th
tennis courts. - I

“The central issue in making the
decision was one of equity,” Howison
said. “W&L has fine fraternity
houses, and now the time has come
for women to have comparable hous-

77

mg.

“The property has some nice, in-
teresting terrain because it’ s wooded,”
Howison said. “And it is above the
ﬂood plane.”

The Montessori Center for Chil-
dren lies at the end of the property,
but the plans will not affect the school,-
Howison said.

“It’s a beautiful piece of property,”
Phillips said. “It is a very convenient
and safe location because it is close

C

A‘ shares words of wisdom

' on getting and keeping a

to campus. I encourage everyone to
go and check it out.”

Each house would have an occu-
pancy of 20 (four single and eight
double rooms), a housemother’s suite,
a dining/chapter room to accommo-
date 80 or more and a lounge area for
all-purpose use such as rush, recep-
tions, leisure and study. Exterior pa-
tios and recreation spaces would be
integrated into the house sites. Each
house would have a full kitchen. Each
sorority will decide whether they will
hire a cook.

“Nothing like this has happened for
W&L women thus far,” Phillips said.
“Women will ﬁnally have a physical
presence on campus.”

“This is a very exciting announce-
ment,” Panhellenic Council Sara
McCrone said. .

“Before there was talk of having
some sort of communal housing, but
the decision for each sorority to have
its own house and its own kitchen
seems to be the right one for every
sorority.”

Sorority members were given sur-
veys and invited to voice their opin-
ions in seminars about sorority hous-
ing, McCrone said. “This resolution
matches what women on this campus
want.” — R
“The fact that the university has
made this a high priority represents a
big victory for sororities and women
in general,” Panhellenic delegate
Christina Shumate said.

If more chapters are added, the
university will accommodate them,
Howison said.

“If a sixth sorority is added, the
university will provide comparable
housing for that sorority,” Howison
said.

“We might see a decrease in the
number of girls who pledge sororities
and might not be able to support an-
other chapter anyway,” Shumate said.
“The dues will rise to an amount com-

East Lex, Sa|erno’s victims of bridge

and upgraded.” He does not know who will be paying for
these “upgrades” or how much they will cost.

The gas pumps will also have to berelocated. Besides
the fact that VDOT plans to place guardrails where the
pumps are now, Bowen recently discovered that the pumps
are on state land. “The place I get gas from owns the
pumps,” Bowen said. “I guess they’ll have to pick up the
tab since the pumps are on state property.” The pumps
will probably be moved to what is now an undeveloped,

BY HILLARY COOMBS

MANAGING EDITOR

nly two-tenths of a mile and three lanes of as
phalt separate the East Lexington Store and
Salemo’s, but their futures are miles apart.
After the Commonwealth Transportation Board’s ap-
proval of the $8.7 million East Lexington bridge project
recenty, both businesses will have to go with the winds of
change.
East Lex must build a new entrance, but will remain at

. its current location. Salemo’s_must move. The owners still

don’t know where it will go. ’

They do have a common past, though. Both propri-
etors leamed at a Feb. 13 public hearing at the National
Guard Armory, sponsored by the Virginia Department of
Transportation, that their businesses would be affected by
the project.

“I had no (initial) input at all,” Jim Bowen, owner of

East Lex, said. “No one ever came by to talk to me. I fi-
nally went to the meeting in February after a couple of
friends who had some knowledge of the situation and the
latest plans told me access to my property would be cut
off.”

Bowen did not attend earlier meetings because “The
original plans were presented as not having an effect on
the store.”

In fact, the additional lanes will not encroach on
Bowen’s property or limit access to East Lex. The prob-
lem isn’t the lanes; it’ s the guardrails. They will run through
the space in front of the store where the gas pumps are
now located, effectively cutting off the current entrance.

Eventually, Bowen and VDOT worked out a new route
to his convenience store, via state Route 631. “The main
effect it will have will be on the driveway usage and ac-
cess to the property,” Bowen said. “The (new) entrance 
will be where the parking is now. It will have to be paved

Alumnus shares perspectives

wooded area behind the store.

Bowen is trying to concentrate on the positive aspects

of his forced exterior redecorating.

“It may be safer to get in and out,” he said. “If it
helps smooth out traffic flow, then it won’t have that

grave an effect.”

He does not know, however, what the long-terrn effect

of the rerouting will be on his business.

The owner’s of Salemo’s do. The news the Graziano
family eventually received about the effect of the bridge
project was that they would have to move their business.

The experience has been anything but positive.

“We have no idea what will happen to us,” Carol
Graziano said. “We thought we were going to be taken
care of, but VDOT won’t even talk to us.”

After learning that the property on which their busi-

on honor, honesty in business

BY GEORGE URBAN
STAFF WRITER
Richard Duchossois ’44, legend of
private industry and benefactor of
Washington and Lee’s Duchossois
Tennis Center, returned to Lexington
on Thursday. He met with several stu-
dents at an afternoon reception, shar-
ing insights on family business, inter-
national business and regulation of
private industry. After dining at the
Lee House, Duchossois gave a talk at
the Commerce School on “Doing
Business Honorably.”
Praising the culture of honor at
W&L, Duchossois advised students,
“Never compromise your integrity.

Your honor is the most valued pos-
session you can have.”
He added that once honor is lost, it

is impossible to regain.

“Honor is a verb — it is something
you do,” Duchossois told the audi-
ence. In the course of time, not doing
the right thing will cost you success
in the business world, he said. “You
may get away with something once
or twice, but eventually it will catch
up to you.”

Duchossois has developed a cul-
ture strongly based on honor in his
company, Duchossois Industries. He
attributes much of his corporation’s
success to this way of life.

“You have to have the confidence of
your customers and run a good busi-
ness, too.”

Running a good business is some-
thing Duchossois has excelled at, also.
Keeping the company private has al-
lowed him to look to the future, “add—
ing value to everything we do,” in-
stead of trying to pad the next
quarter’s figure to keep public share-
holders happy.

Duchossois’ success is deeply

rooted in his commitment to custom-
ers. He believes that nothing is impos-
sible and leads his team by example.

if) sag ALUM ma 5

ness stands would be acquired as part of the project, the
restaurant’s owners asked to be released from their lease
so they could move their business. Their landlord refused.

Salemo’s must now wait until the state acquires the
property and tenninates its lease before the business can
afford to relocate. They have heard that will be before the
end of 1997. The family does not yet know whether they’ll
receive any compensation for the trouble the new bridge
has caused them. They plan to relocate, but so far, the
uncertainty of their situation has prevented the Graziano’s
from securing a new lease. .

“We’re in the hands of VDOT,” Graziano said. “And
they really don’t care a bag of beans about us. To them,
we’re just a spot in their way.”

Homecoming date.

I PAGE 8

Monday
SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

parable to fraternity dues. Many
women now take advantage of the
present system which is relatively in-
expensive, but with the increase in
dues, we might see a decrease in girls
pledging sororities.”

However, Phillips believes that
sorority housing will spark an increase
in Greek women.

“Women will have a physical
meeting place to meet and be with
friends,” Phillips said. “I think this
will attract women tojoin sororities.”

Each sorority will select sopho-
mores and members from the 1998
pledge class to decideon particular
color schemes for the houses.

The sorority_ women livingin the
old Delta Tau Delta house was an ex-
periment with sorority housing that
has worked out tremendously well so
far, McCrone said.

“The women are definitely taking
advantage of the resources available
to them here,” Resident Assistant
Heather Cook said. “They love it here
and don’t want to leave.”

It has not yet been determined what
will happen to the house when soror-
ity houses are built, Phillips said. “I
hope that we can keep the house to be
an annex to the sorority houses,”
Phillips said. ‘‘It is a central place
where sororities can have parties.”

In contrast with fraternity houses,
the sorority houses would have no
“party room” basement area. Since
National Panhellenic/Sorority rules
prohibit alcohol in the houses, there
is no need for such a place, Phillips
said.

The Sorority House Corporations
would lease the sorority houses from
the university and be responsible for
hiring housemothers and managing
the kitchen operations. Room rates
would be set in accordance with Uni-
versity room rates. Throughout this

Q) SEE HOUSING PAGE 2

 

/“vi? ii .L—l-
Fi:>-Lr o

37 $5 .’75"’.:7
BT31-

I 433/ L0,’? '7
v. /00

new}:

(«L

Dyson
speaks at
Lee Chapel

BY JULIEANN ULIN

PAGE 2

STAFF WRITER

Freeman Dyson, the physicist who wrote this year’s
required freshman reading, “Inﬁnite in All Directions,”
is no stranger to the poverty that he seeks to correct.

His wife grew up in an East Gemian village whose
economy was destroyed by the fall of Communism. “I
have seen with my own eyes what happens to a village
when the economic basis of life collapses,” he said, at
his lecture Wednesday in Lee Chapel.

Dyson visited his wife’s childhood town a few weeks
ago, and said the village’s revival was the result of mod-
emization and low interest loans.

The lecture, which was broadcast by WLUR-FM and
Cable 2, centered around the reduction of poverty and
the overcrowding of cities through modern technology
such as solar energy, genetic engineering and the Internet.
Dyson praised Washington and Lee’s fall seminar on pov-
erty for promoting awareness of this worldwide crisis.
“My mission in what is leﬁ of my life is to put new tech-
nologies to work in the cause ofsocial justice,” he said.

“The international market devalues the work of the
village,” Dyson said._ “Without work, the younger and
more enterprising peoplemove out, leading to the de-
struction of the village economy and the resulting over-
crowding of the cities.”

“His contribution to science through his research in
theoretical physics ‘and to the contemporary life of the
mind is an unparalleled example of human accomplish-

ment,” Dean Laurent Boetsch said in the introduction.

Dyson’s solution to poverty incorporated the use of
the lntemet and the genetic engineering of trees capable
of hamessing solar energy as a means of enabling busi-
nesses and fanners in remote places to function as a part
of the global community, ending the global isolation of
poor countries and poor people.

At the close of his speech, Dyson turned to a message
of hope. “I see a hope that all the world will move far
and fast in the direction I have been describing. Let us all
help to push the world in that direction as hard as we can.
It does no harm to hope.” _

Dyson is a graduate of Winchester College, the
University of Cambridge and Cornell University. He
has been the recipient of 17 honorary degrees, includ-
ing ones from Princeton, Dartmouth and Oxford. He
is currently a professor emeritus at the Institute for
Advanced Study at Princeton University. Dyson also
aided with the development and design of the Orion
spaceship in 1956.

Phi lunchtime poll:

Freshmen

I1€WS

refelct

on first crazy month

BY DAN BIRDWHISTLE
—-————————— Smrr WRITER

To give the class of 2001 a chance
to shine, we at The Ring- Tum Phi ven-
tured out to ask some probing ques-
tions of this the first class of the new
millennium.

What is the strangest thing you

have done at W&L so far?
“I can’t say— I’m not allowed.”
-Geoffrey White

How was lunch?
It was wonderful! -
-Annabelle Wirth upon
exiting the D-Hall

What are you doing tonight?
“I dunno, why?”
-Martha Combrooks

What is the strangest thing you
have seen in the dorms so far?
“Becca got rolled in toliet paper last
night, and the other night, two guys
were spanking each other.”
-Emily Grandt

How is your chicken?
“A little burnt, but not bad.”
-Will Baker

How many upperclass guys have

hit on you thus far?
‘‘I have not been hit on by any- yet!”
-Carson Schroder (male)

Where were you last night at mid-
night?
“I was in Birdie and Tom’s room
eating Swedish ﬁsh.”
-Kathleen Moroney

How many upperclass guys have
hit on you thus far?
“I don’t wanna answer that in the
paper!” I
-Lacey Winford

Was she in your room eating
Swedish fish last night?

“Yeah, among other things.”
-Birdie

What do you think of the fresh-
men guys?
“Well, there are a few cute ones.
Dan Birdwhistell is our favorite.”
-Amy Hall upon conferring
with her friends over lunch

What is it like eating with Dave
Lehman, the coolest man in the
world?

“Well, it’s nice. It makes me feel
cool.”

-Etan Levine

Do you like the Lucky Charms

' in the D-hall?

“Yes, here is how I eat them.
First, you eat the little cheerio-
like thingies, then you eat the
marshmallows, cuz that’s the best
part.”

-Katie Harding, illustrating the
Lucky Charms eating process

fEHoRNsBY

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

the Town” (1990), “Harbor Light”
(1993) and “Hot House” (1995) have
sold over 8 million copies worldwide.
Homsby’s new album hits the record
stores this August.

He has also written Top Ten hits
with other artists, such as Huey Lewis
and the News and Don Henley.
Homsby was also a part-time mem-
ber of the Grateful Dead from Sept.
1990 to March 1992, performing over
100 concerts in America and Europe.
In 1996 Horsby was a part of the post-
Greatful Dead “Further Festival” tour.

Tickets go on sale in front of the
Co-op Wednesday for W&L students
for $10. Ticket sale for non-W&L
patrons start next Tuesday for $16.

SEPTEMBER29, 1997

 

PROGRAM FOCUSES ON THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL

“Alcoholiday!,” an autobiographical comedy/drama performance by Andy Hill that fo-
cuses on alcohol addiction, will be presented on Sunday, Oct. 5, at 7 p.m. in the Keller
Theater of the Lenfest Center. ,

It is sponsored by the David Thompson Endowment Fund, which was established in
1996! by Thompson’s family to sponsor educational programming in relation to alcohol use
at W&L.

“Alcoholiday! Graduated, Unskilled, Unemployed: Confessions of a Party Animal” fo-
cuses on the progression of addiction to alcohol, which often begins with the choices and
issues facing college students today.

After the performance, Hill will answer questions and help create a workshop for those
who want to help students consider the choices to make about alcohol at W&L. Admission
to the performances is free.

PULITZER PRIZE WINNER W.S. MERWIN TO SPEAK

W.S. Merwin, who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1971 for “The Carrier of Ladders,” will give
a poetry reading at W&L on Wednesday, Oct. 8,-at 4 p.m. in the Leybum Library’s Northen
Auditorium. The reading is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Program.

Merwin’s newest collections of poems are called “The Vixen” and “Flower and Hand:
Poems 1977-1983”, which reprints three earlier collections. His prose collection, “The Lost
Upland”, was named one of the 10 best books of 1994 by The New York Times.

W&L STUDENT RECEIVES SCHOLARSHIP

Senior Glenn F. Miller of Red Bank, N.J. has been selected to receive a $500 Paul B.
Slater National Competition Scholarship from the Sigma Phi Epsilon Educational Founda-
tion. Miller is one of fifteen National Competition Scholarship recipients for 1997.

STUDENT HEALTH SERVICE ENCOURAGES VACCINE

The Student Health Center will offer the inﬂuenza vaccine to all University students and
staff members. Weekly clinics will be held in the University Center Room 109 from 1 1 a.m.
to 1 p.m. Tuesdays, beginning Oct. 14 and concluding November 18. The vaccine is also
available daily at the Health Center located on the lower ﬂoor of Davis donnitory, between
noon and 1 p.m. and 6 to 7 p.m. There will be a charge of $5 for the vaccine.

BETA TO HOLD FOOSEBALL TOURNAMENT

Beta Theta Pi will hold a charity fooseball tournament to raise money for the Roger
Hazelwood Memorial Fund. Hazelwood died of a heart attack this summer. He was the
Beta’s cook for ﬁve years, and the brothers felt a strong attachment to him. Tickets are $25
for teams of two. For more information, contact Tom F allace at 462-5189.

—Compiled by John F idler

/

  N
s§‘§

 

  ,..sINsTANT CREDIT  

Guaranteed Credit cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No credit, No job, No parent-singer, No security deposit!
no credit * bad credit * no income?
Uuu Ban ﬂualifglo Heeelue

Tum [If the Illust lllidelg Used
Credit Cards In The UJor'_|d Today!

\

astercard

 

Wanil/ISA 69- MasterCard Credit Cards?

ORDER FORM  

YES!

I want Credit Cards immediately.

CZLJ/\RAl\lTEE[) APPRGVAL
CRA, Po Box 1 6662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

I



Tired of Being Turned Down?

' , GUARANTEED $10,000 IN CREDIT

  

n" ...;;.i=.;=.n~z
.: umvensarv

 

1;

ii

Drunk hook-ups:

YOU may wakeﬂe

up with more
than just a 9
hang-over Q

BY GINGER PHILLIPS
——-——-——— STAFF Wizniai
It’s something we don’t like to talk
about. It’s something we don’t
even like to think about. But the fact
is that sexually transmitted diseases
are rapidly spreading throughout col-
lege campuses across the nation-
even here at Washington and Lee.

The American Social Health As-
sociation reports that two—thirds of
new STD cases in the United States
each year affect people under the age
of 25. This is a scary number and a
trend which we must combat.

“Many people hear stories about
others with STDs, but they never think it
could happen to them until it does,” said a
ﬁeshman who declined to be named.

There are many misconceptions
about the spreading of STDs, so an
understanding about how

sex,” according to Dr. Jane Horton of
the SHC.

Good communication between part-
ners is always important. “A person nwds
to clearly think out their personal values
ahead of time,” Kaufman advises.

Clear thinking can prevent hasty
and possibly regrettable decisions.
Kaufman also stresses that drinking
“clouds judgement and makes good
decisions more difficult.”

Fumbling around in a drunken
haze can also impair the ability to ef-
fectively use protection. Although
students may believe they know how
to use a condom, they often do not
know how to use it correctly. A con-
dom must be put on and removed cor-
rectly, remain in place during inter-
course and not break or tear in order to
be effective. Even with the right tech-

nique, some infections

sexual diseases are trans-
mitted is very important.
STDs are transmitted
when body ﬂuids mix
through direct contact
with an infected area. You
can contract an STD with-
out having intercourse,

More important
than GMAT:

The most popular
STD test at the

Student Health.

Center is for HIV.

can pass through micro-
scopic openings in the
condom.

STDs at W&L The
most prevalent STDs at
W&L are HPV, herpes,
chlamydia and HBV.
HPV, or Human

and you will not always be able to tell
if your partner is infected. Symptoms are
either not visible or do not occur at all.

THE INVINCIBILITY MYTH
“Many college students have a feel-
ing of invincibility which leads them
to‘ believe that they could never be in-
fected,” says J an Kaufman, Student
Health Center (SHC) Coordinator.

Many W&L students believe that
because other W&L students are gen-
erally from good families, the risk of
contracting an STD from another stu-
dent is low. This is another myth that
students must disregard; anyone can
be infected with an STD.

While not all STDs are curable, all
of them are preventable. You’ve al-
ways heard that not having sex is the
only sure prevention, and as blasé as
that may sound, it’s true. “There is no
such thing as safe sex, but there is safer

Papillomavirus, is the most common STD
on college campuses nationwide.

HPV has many different strains,
sometimes resulting in genital warts and
cell changes that can lead to cancer.
Warts are often hard to spot. They are
either invisible to the naked eye or lo-
cated in places that cannot be seen —
so just because the symptoms aren’t ob-
vious doesn’t mean that the disease is
not there. HPV is treatable, but the body
must rely on its own immune system
to ﬁght the virus. Once infected, a per-
son is infected for life.

Another incurable virus is herpes,
characterized by either sores in the
oral or genital area. A person infected
with herpes can also be symptom free,
and the first outbreak is usually more
severe than subsequent outbreaks.
Treatment is available for this STD.

Chlamydia is a bacterial infection

which is six times more common than
genital herpes and 40 times more com-
mon than syphilis. Symptoms include
a burning sensation during urination,
pain during intercourse and vaginal
and penal discharge. However, over
75 percent of women and 25 percent
of men have no symptoms of this dis-
ease. Chlamydia is curable with spe-
cial antibiotic treatments.

One in 20 Americans has been diag-
nosed with HBV, or the Hepatitis B Vi-
rus, which is often transmitted through
sexual intercourse. There is a vaccination
for the prevention of HBV, and it can be
administered in the SHC.

Despite the fact that HPV, herpes,
chlamydia and HBV are the most com-
mon STDs at W&L, the most testing at
the SHC is for HIV, or human immuno-
deﬁciency virus, which causes AIDS.

Dr. Horton believes one reason for
the high risk of STDs among college
students is serial monogamy. Stu-
dents practice monogamy while in a
relationship but have multiple relation-
ships and multiple sexual partners in a
relatively short period of time.

She also says that many students

SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

under the inﬂuence of alcohol engage
in behaviors which they might not
normally do. “Students don’t always
think about safety, as their judgement
is being impaired by alcohol.”
Kaufman thinks that a lack of un-
derstanding of and communication
about STDs has contributed to a greater
number of cases. Often students are un-
comfortable talking about
STDs. Students may fear
rejection ﬁom revealing an
intimate part of themselves
by discussing their sexual
history with a new partner.
However, there is evi-
dence to support the fact
that W&L students are
practicing safer sex.
W&L’s results in the
Harvard Alcohol Survey
indicate there has been a
decrease in the last three
years of students who en-
gage in unplanned sexual
activity and who do not
use protection. This is par-
tially due to the fact that students are
becoming more informed about HIV and

crash coursei
Brochures in

the University
Center inform
you about STDs.

other infections and know more about
safer sex practioes than they did in the past.
SOLUTIONS So what should you
do if you think you might have a sexu-
ally transmitted disease? Talk to a doc-
tor. Don’t feel embarrassed about seek-
ing counseling or being tested. If you
are infected, then getting tested will
only help you to receive treatment car-
i lier. If not, then testing
will give you a much-
needed sense of relief.
Visits to the SHC are
strictly conﬁdential, and
parents will not be noti-
ﬂed of your visit or test
results. Students may
discuss testing and treat-
ment options with a doc-
tor. The SHC is open 24
hours a day, 7 days a
week, and appointments
can be made by phone.
It’s not necessary to re-
veal the reason for the ap-
pointment. Just tell the
nurse you would like to
have a “personal talk” with the doctor.
An STD doesn’t effect a student’s

status at W&L. The University Policy
on AIDS states that HIV-positive stu-
dents “will not be excluded from en-
rollment or employment or restricted
in their access to University facilities.”

The SHC and various organizations
offer many resources relating to STDs.
Condoms may be obtained for 25 cents
from machines in the student laundry
rooms or free from the SHC.

Students can find pamphlets on
STDs and other sexual concerns near
the counseling offices in the University
Center. LIFE conducts programs to
educate students on sexuality. Univer-
sity counseling, Peer Counselors, dorm
counselors and Student Athlete Men-
tors are available for counseling.

The risks of sexual activity are very
high. Having safe sex doesn’t neces-
sarily mean having no sex, but stu-
dents must learn to be responsible.
There's a lot more at stake here than
failing a test or missing a party.

Kaufman has this advice: “Stu-
dents need to think about what it is
that they want from a relationship, and
they must communicate, which means
listening as well as talking.”

here’s something to be said for

planning ahead and meticu-
lously applying for several summer
internships to increase your odds of
unearthing the perfect opportunity.
I wish I could say I was that
organized.Instead, I sauntered into
the Career Development and Place-
ment Office last January expecting the
perfect internship to land at my feet
with minimal effort on my part. To
my dismay, the receptionist pointed
me in the direction of the library.

I riﬂed through book after book
before I realized that while many
internships were available, not many
ﬁt my three requirements: money, real
work and a Philadelphia-area location.

The vast majority of internships
offer students the opportunity to im-
prove communication skills (while on
the phone with secretaries of big
shots), to become more worldly (while
sending international faxes) and ex-
perience corporate meetings (while
pouring coffee). To show their ap-
preciation for months of drudgery,
they offer a warm handshake and the
same letter of recommendation
they’ve used for the last 10 interns.

I wasn’t interested in the vast
majority of internships. Instead, the
CDPO helped coordinate an alumni-
sponsored internship in the Global
Ventures Department of Covance Inc.,
a contract research organization for
pharmaceutical and biotech industries.

Patrick Durbin, my internship di-
rector, told me he expected big things
from the start. In his mind, I wasn’t
a peon, but a professional.

My first week was divided be-
tween meeting inﬂuential co-work-
ers and department heads and attend-
ing training sessions. Patrick, con-
cerned that I might be intimidated
working with so many men, arranged

a lunch and mentorship with Diana
Faillace, a senior attorney for
Covance and one of few women in
senior management.

Exciting and challenging
projects began the following week
and lasted the surrirner. Covance re-
cently signed an agreement with the
Chinese government to teach inter-
national clinical, laboratory and
manufacturing standards to state-
owned facilities. Covance hired me
to research the Chinese pharmaceu-
tical industry and then summarize
the infonnation in an hour-long in-
temal presentation about Covance’s
prospects in China.

I quickly established a rapport
with the Corporate Marketing De-
partment. Patrick encouraged me
to pursue my interests. I developed
an internal database of important
contacts in the health-care industry
for Covance, completed a survey
and analysis of Covance’s perfor-
mance at the annual Drug Informa-
tion Association trade-show and re-
searched and wrote a bi-monthly
Product Pipeline bulletin designed
to support sales teams.

Other projects included reassign-
ing and expanding client billing
numbers, assisting on the Japan
1998 budget projection and 1997
budget report and researching infor-
mation for ConnectNet, the
Covance newsletter.

The uphill battle I fought to find
a well-paid, intellectually stimulat-
ing internship was well worth it.
Not only did I have an incredible
time working for Covance, but they
have tentatively offered me a job
upon graduation. So while my
peers are tearing out their hair look-
ing for jobs, I can relax and enjoy
my senior year.

Melody Andreola,
with sponsor Jim
Utterback, '77.

‘ Vaness¢iHal1, m
the wilderness

Two
seniors
tell us
how they
spent the V
summer

very time I mention my sum-

mer job as a trail worker to a
W&L student, I am rewarded with
a very strange look — a look which
combines perplexity, a bit of awe
and a deep concern for my mental
health. I have been stationed for the
last four summers at the Big Prairie
Ranger Station ~— a small cluster of
old cabins in the Bob Marshall Wil-
derness in Montana.

Most summer jobs include going
home at night and working five-day
weeks. Not mine. It’s a 33-mile
hike on foot to the nearest road. It’s

. very difficult to leave on weekends,

seeing as it would consist ofa 66-
mile hike on foot. I did it. Once.

My job includes working with
primitive tools (all machine-oper-
ated equipment is banned from the
wilderness, including chain saws
and motor vehicles) such as cross-
cuts, axes, polaskis, shovels,
picomatics, etc., maintaining trails,
and doing construction as needed -
puncheons, turnpikes, waterbars,
etc. Lots of hiking, digging, saw-
ing, and chopping. But it’s the du-
ties left out of the job description
that I will always remember.

I have developed a strong affec-
tion for mules in the past four years.
With lots of heavy equipment for
trail work, we depend on mules and
horses for riding and packing our
supplies.

The first time I saw a mule, I
burst out laughing. Mules are pretty
funny looking creatures with big
floppy lips, large ears, and a bray
halfway between that of a horse and
a donkey. Each has a very strong,
distinct personality of its own.
One little adventure with Bertha
(my all—time favorite mule) sticks
out in my memory.

After unloading Bertha at the end
of a hitch, I led her to the pasture to
join her four-legged friends and
graze to her heart’s content. Tired,
peaceful, and absorbed in the spec-
tacular scenery around me, I
rounded the last comer before the
corral’s gate and was brought out of
my reverie as Bertha rapidly pulled
back and stood at attention. Next to
the gate was the biggest black bear I
have ever seen.

The bear was minding its own
business, rooting around for grubs
. '1 berries, so I wasn’t really wor-
ried. Black bears are shy and gen-
erally not aggressive to humans. As
I stood there admiring the bear’s
size, I noticed some very odd, heavy
breathing next to my ear. Turning
around, I saw Bertha’s whole body
trembling, her ears standing up and
her chest vibrating with short, jerky
breaths. She was hyperventilating
— too smart to move and trigger a
response from the bear, but almost
too frightened to breathe. I turned
Bertha right around and got her out
of there, slowly at ﬂrst, then more
quickly as we drew further away
from the bear.

While my job probably doesn’t
sound like much fun to most people,
during these past four summers, I’ve
learned to expect the unexpected,
live in primitive conditions, do hard
manual labor and truly enjoy the
challenges that my job affords.

While it may be some people’s
nightmare, spending three months
away from civilization with only my
fellow employees, our livestock and
the wilderness for company has be-
come my dream-come-true — a way
to temporarily visit a way of life
nearly extinct today and a part of
nature unspoiled by man.

STAFF WRIIER

nder the Route 60 overpass on Woods Creek is a
house once occupied by Chemistry Professor
Shillington. It’s now occupied by children.

The house is W&L property, and today the Montessori
school leases the property from the university. The school,
unique in its own right, has a unique relationship with W&L.

Montessori has occupied the house for three years, said
director Catherine Bodnar. Before that, it operated out of
local churches. Many of its 28 students are children of W&L
and Virginia Military Institute faculty, W&L law students
and university staff. Though the school is not exclusively
for these groups, it is convenient for them.

Montessori is indeed a school, Bodnar asserted, not a
day care facility. The students range in age from two-and-
a-halfto six.

“We respect children as capable learners,” Bodnar said.
It’s an “individual-oriented, child directed” school, she con-
tinued, where the teachers follow the leads of students who
are “hooked on learning.” Dr. Nancy Margand of the W&L
Psychology department is on Montessori’s school board, and
she said that even the toys in the school are “very educational.”

Montessori’s relationship with W&L goes even further.
In the past, psychology students in need of classroom ob-
servation or interaction have gone to the school to work.
Two W&L students currently work for pay at Montessori.
Margand said the psychology department’s involvement
with the school has decreased in recent semesters, but in-
terested students can still inquire with her or with Bodnar
for work opportunities.

According to Bodnar, the student-to-adult ratio is 4:1 in
the toddler class, which consists of two-and-a—half and three-
year-olds. The class of older children has a 15:1 ratio because
the older children tend to need little instructional assistance.

Margand spoke highly ofthe program, saying that it is
“special for a lot of kids.” She also said the school has
scholarships available for students with ﬁnancial need.
Bodnar said that the school will remain at its present loca-
tion as long as W&L’s long-range plans have room for it.

Bodnar said that other schools for young children in
Lexington cannot rival the Montessori program.

“It” s amazing what children are capable of doing,” she said.

 

PAGE 4

RESULT;

-Football (0-3)

14
30

Sat.: “W&L
Centre

Volleyball (6-4)
7th at Maryville Tournament

Women’s Soccer

(5-0)
Sat.: W&L 5
Guilford 2
Sun.: W&L 3
Greensboro 1
Men’s Soccer (4-1)
Thurs: E&H 1
W&L 6
Sat.: Goucher 2
W&L 4
Women’s X-Country
Sat.: 8th of 16 at
Dickenson
Men’s X-Country
Sat_; 9th Of 19 at

Cortland St. Inv.

AHEAD

Football
Sat.: at Randolph-Macon

' Volleyball

Tues.: Home vs. RMWC
Warner Center at 6:30
Thurs.: at Bridgewater

Rugby
Oct. 2: Season opens at
VMI on the Parade Grounds
Men’s Soccer

Wed.: Home vs. Western
Mennonite at 4:00

Sat.: at Guilford
Women’s Soccer
Thurs.: Home vs. S. Briar
Sun.: at SW Texas @RMC
Women’s X-Country
Sat: 10/11.: at VA St. Meet

Men’s X-Country -
Sat: 10/11: at VA St-. Meet

sports

SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

Colonels prove too much for ‘

BY CHRIS PUGSIEY
—--j-H-———— STAFF WRHER
_ he day after ﬁve former Gen-
, I erals athletes were inducted
into the Washington and Lee
Hall of Fame would be the perfect
time for the Generals’ ﬁrst win of the
season. Unfortunately, a very tough
Centre College team stood in their
way and proved to be too much for
W&L, defeating the Generals 30-14.
The Generals did play a solid game
showing strengths both offensively
and defensively, demonstrating that
there are still good things to come in
the future.
Offensively, J .T. Malatesta had a

1 100-yard receiving day including a 54

yard pass down to the Colonels’ two-
yard line. The Generals’ offensive
line, led by junior Marc Granger and
senior Stefan Neumeister, provided
excellent pass protection for its quar-
terback despite the excellent coverage
by the Colonels’ secondary. These
traits led to two ﬁrst half touchdowns
for the Generals and closed the half-
time gap to 21-14.

The second half was a great oppor-
tunity for the defense to show its fans
that they could make an impact, and
they did not disappoint. Superb cov-
erage from senior All-ODAC
comerback John Benazzi along with
senior Ryan Fletemyer and a good
pass rush by the defensive line held
the Colonels to nine second half
points. Seniors Omar Moneim, Jack
Boyd and Scott King all gained pen-
etration through the Colonels’ offen-
sive line and shut down Centre’s op-
tion attack in the second half. The
Generals also came up with a fumble
recovery and an interception in the
second half, giving the offense some
extra opportunities to score points.

 

Generals n all f ame Da

  

third straight to the Centre Colonels . CHRISTIE PHILLIPS/RING-IUM PHI

Unfortunately, the Generals’ of-
fense could not get started in the sec-
ond half with Malatesta drawing
double coverage and the Colonels
flushing quarterback Christian
Batchellor out of the pocket. The
Generals remained scoreless in the
second half and fell for the third

straight week. But both playing units
showed signs of good things to come
in the next few weeks and with only
one conference loss, the Generals still
have a very good chance to make
some noise in the ODAC.

Women’s soccer is unbeatable

BY FRANCES GROBERG
———j-——j—-— STAFF WRHER

And they keep winning.

The women’ s soccer team defeated
two North Carolina teams this week-
end, Guilford and Greensboro, to go
6-0 on the season. With these wins,
the Generals have opened with the
second best record in school history,
one victory shy of last year’s 7-0 start.

On Sunday against Greensboro,
senior Lorraine Taurassi scored ﬁrst
for W&L, putting the Generals out in
front just 12 minutes into the game.

Natalie Serianni of Greensboro
evened the game a short time later
with a feed from Nicole Jurand.

The tie would not last long, as long
as the Generals’ leading scorer was on
the ﬁeld. With eight minutes left in
the half, junior co—captain Karin
Treese scored to put W&L out in front
once again with a score of2- 1. In six
games, Treese has scored 1 1 goals and
is the all-time leading scorer in W&L
women’s soccer history.

Freshman Shana Levine, who re-
corded two goals on the weekend,

   The Problems with Pro Baseball

By Brendan Harrington

In the world of baseball, the play-
offs start tomorrow night and the eight
teams that will battle for the World
Series crown have all been deter-
mined. In the American League, the
defending champion New York Yan-
kees will take on the Cleveland Indi-
ans in a best of ﬁve series. While the
other series has the Baltimore Orioles
taking on the Seattle Mariners. In the
National League, the Houston Astros
will take on the Atlanta Braves and
the San Francisco Giants will face off
with the Florida Marlins.

I ﬁnd myself not all that excited
for the beginning of the baseball play-
offs. When I was younger, I wit-
nessed such thrills as game 6 of the

1986 World Series between the Mets
and Red Sox and Kirk Gibson’s dra-
matic home run in the ﬁrst game of
the 1988 World Series. But due to
recent events that have basically ru-
ined professional baseball for me, my
interest is at an all time low, though
last year was a very exciting post sea-
son.

For starters, I hate the current play-
off system. The Houston Astros
should not be in the playoffs. Both
the Dodgers and Mets have better
records than the Astros, but since the
Central Division champ gets in no
matter what their record is, the Astros
get a ticket to the post season. There
have been many different suggestions
for realignment, including talk of put-

ting teams such as the Mets and Yan-
kees in the same division to promote
geographic rivalries. This new sys-
tem would do away with the National
and American Leagues as we know
them and ruin the tradition of base-
ball. In my opinion, the best thing to
would be to keep both leagues intact
but do away with divisions. Just sim-
ply take the teams with the four best
records from either league and put
them in the playoffs.

Another problem I have with base-
ball is the length of the games. While
I was riding down to Lexington from
New York I listened to a Yankees/
Orioles game that turned out to be the

{D SeeJUNK1E page 5

 
   
       
   
 
     
  

 
 
   

lively bistro
8: outdoor patio ‘

Breakfast Lunch Candlelight Dinners
Fine Wines Imported Beers
Cappuccino Espresso
Homemade Baguettes 6’ Croissants
Outrageous Desserts

10% off with
college Ill

19 W. Washington St.
540 /464-1900

widened the gap to 3-0 with just un-
der six minutes left in the ﬁrst half.
The General’s defense remained solid
for the rest of the game, and the score
stood at 3-1 at the game’s conclusion.

Saturday against Guilford proved
to be a day for captains and freshmen.
The Generals defeated the Quakers by
a score of 5-2, thanks to a scoring
explosion in the second half when
W&L rocketed three goals in three-
and-a—half minutes past Guilford
goalie Jenny Ackman.

In the ﬁrst half, however, victory
was not always certain. Freshman
Margaret-Hunter Turner opened scor-
ing in the ﬁrst half for W&L with just
17 minutes remaining to put the Gen-
erals up 1-0, but Alison Schott of
Guilford answered quickly with a goal
of her own, tying the game at 1-1.

Late in the ﬁrst half another fresh-
man, Amanda McDermott, put W&L
ahead again with her goal off a pass
from freshman Elizabeth Olson.
Guilford answered again with a goal
from Abbey Weiner to tie the score
at 2-2.

The game remained deadlocked at
halftime and through most of the sec-

 See SOCCER page 5

Coach Frank Mirielo attmepts to boost the morale of his disgruntled defensive troops during the Hall of Fame Day where the Generals dropped their

STATS:

lst
Downs

Rushes-
Yards

Centre 20‘ 56-145

W&L 10 28-41

Passing Off. Plays- Time of
Yards Yards Possession
175 82-320 36:00
181 55-222 24:00

 Jock Shorts
- Cross Country runs over most of opposition
- Men’s soccer wins and loses - Volleyball

takes 7th

Men’s
Cross-Country

The men’s cross country team trav-
eled to the Cortland State Invitational
Saturday looking for a considerably
better showing than the 16th place ﬁn-
ish they took home last year. In ﬁn-
ishing ninth out of 17 schools in a
strong ﬁeld, that is exactly what was
achieved. Senior Jason Callen ran a
season best time of 26: 1 8 to place 12th
overall in a ﬁeld of 1 10 runners, and
senior Will Olsen ﬁnished eight sec-
onds later to claim 15th place. This
weekend the team gets a chance for
some much needed rest and relaxation
before heading down the road Octo-
ber 1 1th to compete in a meet at VMI.

Women’s
Cross-Country

The women’s cross country team
journeyed to Dickinson College Sat-

urday to compete in the Dickinson In-
vitational Cross Country Meet. Jun-
ior Natalia Dorofeeva placed seventh
in a ﬁeld of 136 to lead W&L to an
eighth place ﬁnish among the 16
teams present. Dorofeeva ran a sea-
son best time of 19:50 to lead the Gen-
erals for the 3rd consecutive week.
Senior Carson Flowers was second
across the line for the Generals with a
time of2l:07 to ﬁnish 36th overall.
Like their male counterparts, the
women’s cross country team will also
be taking the weekend off before trav-
eling to VMI in two weeks.

Men's Soccer

Junior forward Sam Chase is a
scoring machine. With three goals
and an assist in Thursdays game
against Emory & Henry, Chase pro-
pelled the Generals to a 6-1 victory

 See JOCK SHORTS
page 5

  er/e/We

.,..M

24 o/lam Mama o%eer
540-464-5800

l:lNE
WALIAN
CLJISINE

I

 

L “ SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

 

 JOCK SHORTS

the overall record was somewhat

sports/ news

PAGE 5

QTJUNKIE

and I must admit, I’ll be a little ex-
cited if the Yankees and Orioles meet

 

 

,  CONTWUED FROM PAGE 4 tarnished due to participation in the for the American League Champion-
tough Maryville Tournament over   CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5 ship. As for my predictions, it all
and moved into third place on the all- the weekend. Before the Generals k d _ , , longest nine inning game in the his- comes down to pitching, pitching, and
time W&L scoring list. 11 traveled to Maryville, however, off:V:e::,:w::trt:’g:‘°C: n:“ll1pe‘:::5 to Predict the baseball Play‘ tory of baseball. The game took over more pitching, especially relief pitch-
Jami€ParkeT and I are rea y Start- they first had a contest against con- ’ ' 4 hours and 20 minutes. That is just a in . The Yankees won the world se-
J. ing to play yvell together, Chase com- ference foe Roanoke on Tuesday in NLCS/ WORLD ridiculous amount of time for a nine riegs last year because their bullpen
mented after Thursdays hat tr1ck,When Salem. CHAMPION inning game. Pitchers should not be dominated in the post season.
we are in sync the goals start to come. Led by sophomore offensive star A1-CS SERIES allowed to take five minutes between Mariano Rivera and John Wetteland
Goals are deﬁnitely coming for Nancy Reinhart, who is currently Braves every pitch and throw overto first base were unstoppable. But this year is a
(_ Chase. With the winning shot in tied for the ODAC lead in kills per Brendan Harrington Marlins Braves six times. It makes the game BOR- different story, The Baltimore Orioles
Saturday 4-2 trlumph 0V6r Goucher game with 3.32, the Generals had a Columnist Orioles INGI now have the best pitching of any of
College, Chase upped his total ca- little trouble dispatching Roanoke, Orioles ' My biggest problem with baseball, the playoff teams, and for this reason
reer goals to 35, only ﬁve beneath winning 15-3, 18-16, 15-7. Yankees like many others, has to do with the 1 believe they will win it all. How-
‘ the School record of 40 Set by Scott It was the 20th consecutive B strike and the issues that go along with ever, they will face a stern challenge
' Fechnay in 1969. ODAC regular season victory for raves it. Baseball players are incredibly from the Atlanta Braves, who I think
h Althoplgh Chase tis gnlyka .l£1I1l(ii‘, the Iprolggrgm, astreakTt1l1iat d:tes back Matthew Craig Marlins Braves ovefpzigi Thlfire 15 1110 “1’:Y 3 Eledle‘ Will Pre‘/all in the Natienal I-eat‘-i.Ue~
e 1S we on pace 0 rea t e a - tot e 5 season. eyt en trav- . Orioles _ cre mi e re ievers ou ma e over But the la the ames forareason,
time W&L record within the next eled to Maryville, to a tournament Cm‘ Manager Orioles 3 nnlllon dollars a year. It-S just not We Canyoilyywatcgh and wan
ll. few weeks. With the victories over that featured two opponents ranked Yankees right. And free agency has turned the
Emory & Henry and Goucher this in the South region. Braves game into a joke. I can’t even keep  
week, the men’s soccer team re- The Generals played the first of Marl. _ track of what team a player is on any  S  C E R
bounded from the 3-0 loss against those opponents, Savannah A&D, Jason zaoher ms Marlms more. 1 CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
Virginia Wesleyan last week and im- on Friday. Despite 1 1 kills from Exec_ Editor Mariners Mariners Players have no sense of loyalty to
‘l‘ proved their overall season record Nancy Reinhart, Savannah A&D, Yankees one city and will simply go wherever 0nd half, until Treese, proving once
to 4-1. ranked #5 in the poll, defeated the they can find the most cash. Even the again just how valuable she is to W&L
“We didn’t ay especially well,” Generals 15-7, 15-8, 15-6. On Sat- defending champion New York Yan- women’s soccer this season, scored
noted Chase, “but we did what it urday, the team played three Brav-es kees have an entirely different-look— with just seven minutes left in the
- 7» - - - John Stewart Marlms Braves ~ -
‘. takgs to  th. C h P. ‘a niatches, winning one and losing Sports Editor Yankees llﬁg team Ehfin aciiygar ago. A1nd,Ihz;te igI:iCITr1e€€;.s:£:;l1I:.:S11aSgC.Cr)1r:d if; a 53:5 to
ne o e ings oac irani n wo. Mariners e recen en 0 ren ing p ayers or r i o - . e an-
did this week to improve the The first match was against the Yankees the pennant chase and playoffs and other freshman, Levine sealed the vic-
General’s attack was to move All- #6 team in the South, Westminster. then getting rid of them at the end of tory with her unassisted goal to put
American sweeper Michaiel Parker Led by Nancy Reinhart (12 kills), B’aVe5 the year . The)’ Play With 3 team for 3 W&L "P 5’2~
,(_ into the midfield. Hilary Martin (1 1 kills) and Ali Chris Pugsley Marlins Marlins month and a half and get a World Se- Next to face the Wrath of the unde-
is}-Iaving Parker as a defensive Beard (21 assists), the Generals Sports writer , Orioles ries ring and then move on to another feated Generals will be Sweet Briar,
mid gave us an extra go-to guy in played tough despite a poor start O“°1°S team. How are you supposed to have when the 1997 team will try to repeat
the middle,” said Chase. ~ and ultimately fell in three straight Yankees a favorite team when half the team is the 1996 t<=am’s 7-0 start. The game
The experiment worked wonder- games 1-15, 11-15, 11-15, _ different from year to year? Will be held on Thursday, Oct. 2 at
‘‘ fully in Thursdays game. Parker Next came tournament host Logos courtesy of Major League Baseball But for now, on with the playoffs, 4:30pm on Liberty Hall Field.

scored the first goal a few minutes
into the first half and freshman
Yacek Mucha, Parkers replacement,
4 played solidly the entire game.
However, in Saturdays outing
against Goucher, the plan may have
- backﬁred as the defense allowed two
suspect goals. It will be interesting
4 to find out how Coach Piranian plays
the Parker and Mucha combination
this week against last years ODAC
champions Eastern Mennonite Uni-
1» versity.

Maryville, In a marathon match, the
Generals lost a heartbreaker 14-16,
15-5,11-15,15-11, 10-15. Nancy
Reinhart once again led the offense
with 16 kills, and junior Megan
Snodgrass added 10 kills and 5
blocks in the losing cause. The Gen-
erals finally broke out of their los-
ing streak in the last match of the
tournament against ODAC foe East-
ern Mennonite.

Behind Nancy Reinhart’s 16 kills
and senior Holly Thomsen’s 13
kills, the Generals won 3-1. With
that victory, the team finished 7th
in the tournament and improved
their record to 7-4. This week they
play two conference games, at home
on Tuesday against Randolph-Ma-
con in the Warner Center at 6:30
p.m. and at Bridgewater College on

Committee, Panhellenic President
Suzanne Sharp announced that a
special Sorority Housing Commit-
tee would be established, and would
report to the Board of Trustees at
the October 1995 meeting.

At the Campus Life meeting in
October 1995, the Sorority Hous-
ing Committee presented its report,
favoring the construction of houses
for each sorority with an occupancy
of20-25, meal facilities, a common
social/meeting space and no large
“party room.” Discussions contin-
ued throughout the 1995-96 aca-
demic year.

In January 1997, representatives
of the Panhellenic Council met with
the University Master Plan Consult-

‘ZDHOUSING

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

process, the University would
continue to work with the city of
Lexington in developing a Master
Plan that includes that new soror-
ity houses, in accordance with ap-
plicable zoning regulations.

Over the past five years, the
Campus Life Committee of the
Board of Trustees sought and re-
ceived regular reports on soror-
ity housing from student leaders.
Formal discussions about soror-
ity housing began at the Campus
Life Committee in May 1995. At
the behest of the Campus Life

ant, the Hillier Group, to discuss ,/’ I ‘
sorority housing. At the May 1997   M
   
a resolution which was supported
by the Board of Trustees to “adopt
as a very high priority the construc-
tion of sorority housing.”

The final decision on sorority
housing comes 12 years after the
first female class at W&L and eight
years after the establishment of the
first three sororities -— Kappa
Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega and
Kappa Alpha Theta. Pi Beta Phi
was added in 1992 and Kappa Delta
in 1997. After the January 1997
rush, 67 percent of W&L women
were sorority members.

Judi McKeage, who accompa-
nied Duchossois, praised his “top-
down, open-door” leadership.

The principles Duchossois
shared with the students are the
same ones that elevated him to
the top of private industry. He as-
sured students that their time at
W&L would be an asset through-
out their lives, although he noted
that one thing has changed since
he was a student.

“I’ve never seen so many beau-
tiful women on this campus!”

Volleyball

The volleyball team went into

‘ last week with an impressive 5-1
overall record and a 2-0 ODAC
record. Though by week’s end their
undefeated ODAC record and con-

       
   

     
     
       
    
      
       
        

    

, secutive win streak were still intact, Thursday.

I

  ' W ’ W h -

- This eek 5 eat er.

"' Tuesday Wednesday Thursday

4

n High: 73° High: 69° High: 73°

Low: 53° Low: 49° Low: 46°
“ Saturday Sunday
. www.arthurandersen.com
i‘‘
U Who
 Juniors anél Ssenioiisnvnvith
l - . , ma'ors in - choo , ath, .
l A H'9h' 74° "'9"? 75° and Computer Science i
L°W= 47° Low: 53°
l
, What When
3 A
Courtesy of the National Weather Service Informational Meeting on Thursday, October 2, 1997
Internships and Permanent at 7:00 p.m.
opportunities with Arthur Andersen
5.
COSTA RICA Wh‘-“'9 Wm’
. . - d't '
V Siudy Paradise this Spring C School Au lonum ;c:tLeuarrrAr?:jcg.:§:_out
The Organization for Tropical Studies in partnership with
Duke University offers a lielcl-oriented semester abroad program
in tropical ecology and Latin American culture. Students earn 16 credit
6 hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language 8: culture.
Credit: may be transferred from Dulce.   
0 hands-on biology 0 cultural immersion - field trips
0 independent projects - remote field sites
‘A. 0 research 0 exotic wildlife
For brochure and application materials, conlcicl
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633
Tel: (919) 684-5774; E-mail: <nao@acpub.dul<e.edu>
1 liltp://www.ols.dul<e.edu
Applicolion deadline for i998 Spring semester is October l5, l997.

 

 

gour

t might have seemed like a
weak weekend, but things
were still bumping and

grinding in Big Lex. If you
couldn’t or didn’t make it out to

Davidson. Park and Red
UEUC this weekend, here’s a

 

 Band Party — Friday
Night. A ton of people, a great band

for dancing ——  On.

And a perfect way to get sweaty
without feeling guilty about it in
the morning. Bill, the Domino’s

P”
man who was selling $3 pizzas

touch. (I)A(“) Band Party -

turday ' ht. Three words:

CC 2111211121

lab ‘Out. No this isn’t my
sick sexual symbolism again, just
the name of a kicking band who had

a lead singer with super-powerful
lungs.

There was also enough room on the
dance ﬂoor to shake your bootie
without shaking it in someone else’s
space (unless that was your plan, of

course).  Tropical Party

—— Saturday Night. Lambda Chi
went all out once again for this
annual party. Mad props go out to
the boys for rigging up the huge

WalCI  that fell from the

roof into a pool below. (Although it
looked suspiciously like Sigma Nu’s
annual Spring Term Shipwrecked

The dance ﬂoor was sparse at times
but the bar was always full --

imagine that.  Band party

' Saturday Night Yeehall Kappa Sig’s

“Redneck Ball Mixer with Theta
opened up around 11 p.m., at which
time everyone was offered a chance
to see what it’d be like to live like

the townie-S.

Hay covered the ﬂoor, chicken
wire surrounded the bar and people
traipsed around in more camouflage
and bright orange articles of
clothing than at a hunting gear
exposition.

The band, Sneaky Pete,

set the mood for some down home
country fun and when I overheard
someone say, “Naw I ain’t got no
book learnin”’ way too authenti-
cally, I realized how lucky I was that

SIMPLE
Soi.u1'ioNs son
THE SociAi.i.v
CHALLENGED

doesn’t score you any

Dear Ms. Etiquette,

l’m in a major predicament.
There’s this guy and we’re friends
at best. Okay, we’re halfway be-
tween acquaintances and friends.
Lately he’s been calling me, like
everyday. l’m not his girlfriend!
How can I let him know that, and
most importantly how can I pre-
vent him from asking me to Home-
coming?

-Dodging Phone Calls in Gra-
ham Lees

Dear Dodger,

“All these boys keep calling
me.” Wah, wah. You need to get
over yourself before NO ONE is
calling you. Seriously though, the
only way to let him knowthat you
don’t like him like that without
hurting his feelings is to simply‘

FIND YOURSELF ANOTHER
MAN AND MAKE SURE HE
KNOWS ABOUT IT. So what are"
you waiting for?! Get to work  the
Homecoming scramble has already
begun.

Dear Ms. Etiquette,

Wednesday night, I hooked up
with the dreamiestboy! As an added
bonus he asked me to Homecom-
ing! So what’s the problem? Iwoke
up the next day and realized we
were both totally trashed the night
before.

So now what? Do I call and see
ifthe date is still on? Do you think
he’ll even remember my name?

-Scared to be Dateless

£30|91$9ﬁﬁoﬁﬂ$063QOQ§BUGOO8I$#¢§8O3ﬂ€i49$

 

Miss Etique1.te’s tip of the Weelc
Pay attention to your I}Hall habits. Bad ones can Cost
you your friends. and dropping your tray on the floor
points in the cool deparmient

$93&0$83ﬂOEQJDGOﬁQ$€¢OCt§I9$Q$£$lC§€08¢5B

Dear Scared

Put that phone down now! Of
course you don’t call him. I hate to
be the bearer of bad news, but  sit
and wait for the phone to ring. Wait
to see if he says anything.

If you realize that it’s the
Wednesday night of Homecoming
week and you’re still waiting by the
phone, run, do not walk, to the
nearest fraternity party and strut
your stuff.

Being picky is no longer an
option. Take whatever you can get.
Beware, W&Lfemales on the prowl
the week of Homecoming are more
vicious than Lee’s troops them-
selves!

Since my box has been ﬂooded
with anxious questions from
frightened freshmen, I decided to
provide y’all with some tips on how
to snag that ever-important Home-
coming date.

1. GET OUT THERE! Being
visible and seen out at parties often
is a MUST! Having three tests and
a paper due Monday is not an ex-

. cuse to stay in, nor is bronchitis.

2. Always look your best, you
never know who you’re going to
run into while doing laundry or
takingthatquickietriptoWal—mart.

3. This is not the weekend to get
trashed. Throwing up on a fratty
boy’s feet will cost you an entire
house of date options.

4. Always look like you’re hav-

V ing a good time, even when you’re

not.

 O E.C. Budget meeting-
we beg for money 9  O
AED Seminar: “Medical School Ad-
missions” Aileen A. Edwards and
' Cynthia M. Heldberg Medical College
of Virginia Room 214 New Science
Building 5 p.m. 0 Volleyball vs.
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Warner Center 6:30 p.m. O Environ-

  

—

 mental Studies Program: Christopher
Science Building 7:30 p.m. Q  9 June 1998 degree
applications due THIS MEANS YOU, SENIORS 9 Men’s Soccer vs. Eastern
Mennonite at Liberty Hall Field at 4:30 pm. O‘Trident hits the newsstands Q
 O Rosh Hashanah 9 Women’s Soccer vs. Sweet Briar at
Liberty Hall Field at 4:30 p.m. 0 Friday 0 Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
at SigEp 0 Start the mad search for a homecoming date 9  O
ALCOHOLIDAY! Sponsored by the David Thompson Endowment Commit-
tee in the Lenfest Center at 7 p.m. 9 DJ Party at Sigma Nu (this could be Friday)
0 Huge Party at Big “E” 6 Sunday; Listen to Eric and John from 1 0 to
12 on WLUR 9 Think about catching up on all that reading you’ve been

Camuto in the Great Hall of the New

ignoring for the first month of school 9

Colonnade Club

quick review of some of the parties

we made it to; out front all night, was also a nice

Dou

a n d R o b i n’s
st  Southern Inn. The restaurant has
been a Lexington landmark since the
V]  dawn of time. Its has been under new
ownership since October and we had
heard good things since this change.

T(l;e7§.0lj‘f,:?; 139,131“ We arrived late on a Thursday night with Andrea and
. ‘ I 5 _ ' Steven. Since we were all hungry, we opted for an appe-
Ratmgs ( ' )° tizer. The waitress infonned us that there were no more

Lee himself probably ate at The

Sewlcea 3 fried mushrooms, so instead we chose blooming onion.
P9 Per Grinder, 0 As usual Dou o ted for wine and re uested a glass
P , 3 P _ _ Q

Bathrooms, 4 of the house White Zinfandel, which was Glen Ellen.
Food Quality, 4 Robin selected Slice, while Andrea chose a tall glass of
presentation 4 iced tea and Steven drank water.

Prices_ $6_20’ The specials of the day tempted Andrea and Steven.

He chose crab cakes as his entree, with a salad, baked
potato and green beans as the vegetable of the day. Andrea chose a large piece
of red meat: the rib eye steak, medium rare, with a baked potato and veg-
etables. She also requested a bowl of the soup of the day, potato. _

Andrea’s previous visit had given her the inside scoop on the chicken, so
Robin accepted Andrea’s suggestion and ordered the Crispy Chicken and or-
dered a bowl of the black bean soup. Doug’s selection, BBQ pork chops, also
came with salad, a baked potato, and vegetables.

First, Andrea and Robin received their soups. Andrea declared hers de-
lightful and well-seasoned. Robin’s black bean soup was equally enjoyable,
particularly with the sour cream, which provided a nice contrast to the soup.

The onions arrived next: two smaller onions, sliced into straws but still
attached at the base, breaded and fried, which came with ranch dressing for
dipping. The appetizer was freshly prepared and quite tasty; Andrea and Robin
both noted that it was less greasy and more ﬂavorful than similar onions they
had tried in the past.

The salads were pleasantly arranged platters of a variety of green garden
delights, with small pieces of other colorful vegetables for contrast. All of the
dressings (Italian and honey mustard) were tasty, and the salads quickly dis-
appeared, making room for the entrees.

, Andrea’s steak arrived dramitically on a sizzling platter cooked to perfec-
tion, exactly medium rare and quite tender. Steven enjoyed his crab cakes,
although he noticed some shells left from the preparation.

Doug’s pork chops were a great success, covered in a tangy barbeque sauce,
and Robin’s chicken lived up to its reputation: well-seasoned, lightly breaded,
tender and scrumptious. Everyone enjoyed the baked potatoes, which had been
cooked with something unidentifiable to give them an unusual taste.

Doug and Andrea called dibs on the last two pieces of chocolate cake,
Steven selected pecan pie, while Robin chose lemon meringue. The_pecan
and lemon meringue pies were excellent. Doug and Andrea found their cake
somewhat dry, such that Doug had to wash down each bite with coffee.

We rolled out onto Main Street, well satisfied with our meal. The Southern
Inn offers variety and quality, in plentiful portions. Sandwiches are available
during the week, while the entree menu takes over and expands on weekends.

For those who need somewhere different to spend a nice night out with

friends, The Southern Inn is a good place to try.

party) The tiki torches and palm

_ this was just another awesome party
fronds also added to the ambiance.

at W&L.

On the earth, there stands a mountain.

And on this mountain, there stands a rock.

And on this rock, there stands a table, made of oak.

And on this oaken table, there stands a bust of Jean—Jacques Rousseau.

And on this stone representation of Rousseau’s head, there stands a
common house fly.

And on this common house fly, there is a speck of dust.

And on  to infinitude.

But then the house ﬂy furiously beats its tiny wings and takes ﬂight,
completely obliterating the infinite set. The ﬂy must carry infinity on‘ its
back, and infinity, being infinitely heavy, tends to weigh down the ﬂy.
Seeing another bust,thistimeof
Franz Kafka, the  y decides to
land there and Tom M011a00 rest. Also rest-
ing upon Kaﬂ<a’s What? head is a cock-
roach.

The cockroach also shoulders a heavy burden: self doubt. For you see,
the cockroach was shown that his existence had been a hindrance to
others, whom he believed he was helping. This left him to ponder the
question, “has my entire life been dedicated to achieving the opposite of
my desires?”

The ﬂy found this dejected cockroach moping about Kaﬂ(a’s frontal
cranial region and said to him:

“You look as though something terrible has forsaken you, my friend.
What is it?”

The cockroach explained the source of his gloom, and to this the ﬂy
responded:

“My dear fellow, it seems as though you have been misguided by your
reason. All actions are mere grains of sand in an endless desert, and,
therefore, have no meaningful consequences. I, for example, am part of
an infinite set, in that, all things which I am part of can be encompassed
by the word “universe,” which, as we have learned, appears to be »
constantly expanding. While all which is part of me can be categorized
by the word “atom,” which as we continue to discover more subatomic
particles, seem to be constantly expanding, at least in the context of our
knowledge.

So, henceforth, all the actions that we take are so minuscule in the
entire scheme of life, that they hold no lasting or meaningful conse-
quence. There is no sense, then, in dwelling on things which, in essence,
mean virtually nothing; instead, one should focus one’s attention on the
present and near future, because these are the periods of time which hold
the most meaning for us. We cannot question our intentions because all
of our intentions are good, save the intent for inactivity. So, my friend,
what you are presently doing is pointless and must be stopped.”

The cockroach did not respond to, oreven understand, what had been
said to it. The fly’s words had erased all of the reasons for the cockroach ’s
gloom from its memory. - — « ~

Now, seeing that he had nothing to worry . about, the cockroach
walked off Kafka’s bust to go live a normal cockroach life.

As they say: Ignorance is bliss.

‘G.l. Jane’: Moore ofthe same

we of 4 stars — The pitch: “|t’|l be like
‘Alien 3’ meets ‘In the Army Now’—
wait, neither of those were hits.”

ALEX CHRISTENSEN
—-—?——P’HI IVIOVIE CRITIC
Every time I talk to someone about
“G.I. Jane,” it seems, they all find a
way to get around to telling me, “It
shouldn’t really be called ‘G.I. Jane,’
you know. G.I.’s are in the Army, and
the movie is about the Navy. Theyjust

used this name because it sounded better.” Who cares?! It does sound better.

And besides that, it’s symbolic. “G.I. Joe” is symbolic ofall men in uniform,
so when a woman attempts to take on a role reserved for men, the term “G.I.
Jane” has a unique resonance. Although, of course, the classic contrast isn’t Joe
vs. Jane, but John and Jane, as in John and Jane Doe, or Jack and Jill, or Joseph
and Mary. But then, “G.I. Mary” is another movie altogether. Nathan Lane, call
your agent.

As luck would have it, the title is the best thing about the movie. Yes, you
get to see her naked. Whew, we got that out of the way. Only from behind,
though, in the shower, in a decidedly unsexy moment. And she’s worked out
so much that she looks like a man, but she isn’t, so God knows who this butt-
shot was designed to appeal to. Truckers and Eastern European shotputters,
maybe.

Some executive probably found out that’s a hot demographic, so he gathered
up all the hacks he could—Ridley Scott (director of “Blade Runner” and “White
Squall”), writer David Twohy (“Terminal Velocity,” “Waterworld”) and the
ever-resourceful Demi Moore and said, “Please take my ﬁfty million dollars
here, go work this chick out until she looks less like a young mother and more
like a missile silo, then beat the hell out of her while she swears like a sailor and
sort ofgrits her teeth for two hours, and put it all on film and we’ll make a mint.
What’s that? Okay, Ridley, you can put your damn opera music on the
soundtrack.”

  

And so, they did. Might as well rent “Striptease.” It’s mildly entertaining,
plus more naked. '

'_I‘ruth.is, I’ve. never been a fan of the brutalize-a-woman film, and in
anticipation of this review, I’ve been wondering whether that’s sexist. I didn’t

I have a problem when, say, Marvin got his head blown off in “Pulp Fiction.”

There are a lot of reasons why that’s different, of course. I think “G.I. Jane” is
the most recent example of not just making an action film with a female star, but
making a film where a woman is treated brutallyjust for the fun ofit. “The Long
Kiss Goodnight,” one of the worst films of all time, is another example. The
female character actually luxuriates in her sick, slow torture in a way that no
male has ever done on film, unless there was something seriously wrong with
him. And then these women are practically lionized, if not canonized.

“Alex, Alex, Alex,” someone will say. “What’s your real problem? Can’t
women meet challenges, too? Do they have to all be nice, retiring homemakers?
Men have been in these kinds of movies for a long time, and they’re great.” That
last part is the ﬂaw, though. Not only have men not been in these kinds of
movies, but if they had, they would have been just as perverse and disgusting.
Jodie Foster’s character was raped in “The Accused.” In Jack Hill’s “Foxy
Brown,” Pam Grier’s character was tied naked to a bed and fondled, and had to
slaughter a bunch of rednecks to escape. But they didn’t sit back later and say,
“Oh wow, l’m so glad I went through that. It was not only a learning experience,
but I think I actually nipped out during it.” There’s a [mint to the Vlolenrp
There’s a plot. There’s a dramatic continuity.

“G.I. Jane” doesn’t give us any of that. There’s some basic tension-building;
Ridley Scott is a professional director, though for some reason he shoots every
scene to look like either dawn or sunset. There are even good moments. Demi
Moore’s Lt. Jordan O’Neil confronts Anne Bancroft’s weaselly Senator Lillian
DeHaven in a particularly triumphant one. And Viggo Mortensen, it seems, can
make almost any role interesting. (He actually gave “Daylight” a little bit of
spark and kineticism, however brief.) And, of course, Demi Moore worked out
a lot. Woo hoo.

I’d like to see an action movie where the star bragged about sitting around
eating big baked potatoes with sour cream and bagels with cream cheese for two
months, laughing hysterically while fast-forwarding through stuff like “Aliens,”
and “Mission: Impossible” between takes. Instead we get Demi again, naked
again, not acting again. At least her stripping had style. Here she just gets
punched in the face and dragged through the mud. But she likes it. She loves it.
You betcha

Hollister Hovey

 
    
  
   
 
 

 

ILL
A kg?-*AT VLEVVXE I ctlkéé WILL-

EUTTN 0?i>i;'<t1 “lb 120
11419 I llrl\\-’E:’i’o eer
i>i>WN "tile iLu't-1-‘-sl.

 

tr youll menus
min wet Yam
pom we Vet/reﬁll‘
WM 12, V99 “I3 07" l

EoPlE“:9, l7E“3l“‘l/’l—:’{:l‘ ta: Tpgjz; (,p(r[2__
TF4?’-I ll , Mil) 5. , :
Pr:iZr=ao'r _l7€329DN " 5” \‘’‘’¢ 7; Y!“ M
f<v\'ﬂf%9:“'l WY 1 ;:i_ L . J U
\ k?«?~N‘T /\Li,ol\ie~t2. 9

)’t=‘/‘:6 9i?-: él4¥l\ll> A/lA6l9P~

PUEA of ‘Ill? ilvuee,

\NV/ WM Vattovv youe.
l/éAP.

  
 

   
 
  
  
 
 

 
 

TH‘? Ni2><r W.Ffry,,_

   

Dkl/lt\l' l livid? MY Vl/AN WM
W094. l/9UAL\»‘l  Hl\VE.”~
9u?»’7’l$ ey Now, u'i"l
Ca}?-99 lit?»
LWL 19E‘-721%?-F,‘”:
ALWM9 Lilac:

  

  

  

Millage U9 Looié l2J€~A\.t,\1 ;00lJ.

iv .

_"..

  

 

sonal belongings unsecured. Sure,
it is great to take unproctored ex-
ams and have professors take you
at yourword. Most assuredly, honor
trials and the single sanction are an
important part of that system. But,
if we were making Venn diagrams,
that would be the small circle stuff.
Big circle: General Lee wanted
his students to “behave like gentle-
men.” In modern, PC, gender-
neutral language, that boils down
to character and integrity. Over at
VMI they would call it discipline,
“doing the right thing in the ab-
sence of orders” and, as you have
discovered, oftimes in the absence
of others. In a day long gone, in the
South, we called it “honor”. There
are a lot of folks these days who
call that archaic, impractical be-
havior, butlthinkitis the one thing
that separates W&L from every
other school. By reinforcing that
character trait, we make leaders.
When you leave Big Lex, you
will have a lot of memories of tail-

when you have proved your mettle
through many character building ex-
periences, you will be a valued person
in this society, because you will be
one of a very few persons whom oth-
ers can trust. The thieves beyond the
Colonnade can stealalotofthings, but
only you can give away your honor.

We need more people we can trust,
so don’t despair. You have a whole
world counting on you.

Mike Webb ’88, ’00L

Realize the boundaries
of the Honor System

To the Editor:

Joshua Heslinga’s letter to the edi-
tor in the Sept. 22 issue of the Phi
underscores a common pitfall, indeed,
one might even say, a shortcoming of
the W&L Honor System. It is a short-
coming which, to my knowledge, has
never been broached in a public fo-
rum, possibly..due,to. the wild and

ington vendors to adhere to a system
which applies only to students. Fur-
ther, it is not a stipulation of the Stu-
dent Handbook that townspeople must
respect the W&L Honor System, or
that they should hold students to the
standard of excellence which is en-
capsulated within.

Familiarity with and respect of the
implicit honor of a W&L student de-
pends on the prerogative of each indi-
vidual townsperson. Any other point
of view betrays the ‘dangerous
mindset’ of which I speak.

Unfortunately, the recent rash of
thefts and Heslinga’s confession serve
as all too vivid reminders that the
honor system extends only as far as
the responsibility of a single student
and his interaction with his peers and
the faculty. This is important for
students to take note of, for miscon-
ceptions about the boundaries of the
Honor System have dangerous impli-
cations for one’s interactions in the
real world.

There exists a negative quality im-

opin_ior1& edit Ori 211

of the Lexington vendors
to adhere to a system
which applies only to the
students.”

77

upper-class student reading this piece
will be to scoff to himself, ‘‘I’m not
that naive.” However, even if on a
conscious level one is aware of the
obvious boundaries of an honor sys-
tem, the pattern of behavior which
proceeds from obeisance produces a
subconscious sense ofmoral guidance.
And here in the subconscious is
where the real danger lies. A sense of
trust and the expectation of honorable
behavior become subliminal guide-
lines for the passive W&L mind when
it is thrust into the real world. This
creates a certain vulnerability and the
potential for more serious problems
than those related by Heslinga in his
disenchanted missive. Years of living
as a Coddled pup do not adequately
prepare a young pup for the wild.
Perhaps I am making a boil out of

PAGE 7

I
I I
Letters to The Ring-tum Phl
4 Th“ "'°“°' System ming in Goshen, and tales about “the .,,,,,,, ,,,c,,,,,tl mm ante, an traps within and rigid code of ethics. are somtooi tho most formative roars Phi needs to pull its
creates leaders » - y P y whichonc mi ht h t ' ~b ' of our lives. What we learn now will - -
one IOSI IOVC WhOg0l away. YOU Wlll mention of our Honor System. i g C attlc cttze at’ tllng l _  
Dear Editor; havealot ofbook knowledge thatwill please note that l do not intend to 5“hVet5'V¢tY P3Vl0‘’13h- 3)’ thlsi t attcct 0”’ t"’ha"‘°ra 0”’ achhhsi 0”’
place you in good standing with your defile or bellllle our honor system as mean thatthe Honor System promotes lives. We must therefore choose our l lrnrllore you to qllestloh your
a r am writing in response to peers from other SchoolS_ some archaic beastbom Oroutmoded conditioned behavior, a thoughtless own code of ethics and keep our eyes lntegrltyt your use of the article
Joshua Heslinga’s letter to the Phi And! 35 You get even Older’ thah)’ idealism. I have the highest regard hallelll of acllolls wlllcll follow all wldc. Open" Of Course’ we mllsl also Cohceththg ml’ tttehd tack
. in which he sccmcd saddened that of those experiences will fall into the for out Honor System, when it is ldeallzcd Slllrldardr 3 Stahdhrd Whose Crlhhhllh to rcspcct the W&t- H0"°_t Bowden’s death to advertise the
others outside our community do class of “childhood memories.” In exerelsed and adnllnlsteled in a 'mPh‘33t‘0h5 arc Perh3P5 hht tuhy S_Y5t‘?th ahd the hclatdcda t0ttY trad“ presence of The Ring-tum Phi on
, notcare aboutthe HonorSystem. I this f3St'P3C°d World You will be thoughtfuland realistic way, thoughl grasped by llle followers‘ , lloll ll leplcSClllS' the thtelhet ts dePt°tahte- The
hr agree that it is regretful, because tempted to throw “honor” in that cat- am not Sure that tllls is the case_ 1 The W&L Hohor SYStem '5 ho ex‘ P _ k t l ’ article itself was so poorly written
there was a time, long before “big 6800/ of ththgs that had Stghtttcahce merely wish to point out, rather, that ,ccpll0ll lo idle, rule’ Frcslllllall Sllldcrlls alllc wllllamsoll 98 that t Cohstdeted Pmtestthg at that
business” came to Big Lex, when only atone moment in time. Iremem- asystern intended to lnstlll Vlrtlle and ‘h general afflvc atthls university with time. I did not because I felt that
there was a more sympathetic feel- berwell my days in Army Special Ops honorin the individual within aclosed °“l3l’. a lhalldlll ””‘l“rSl‘”“l'”g ‘ll. ll?“ Open Letter to the yourrrowspapor would have a pro-
yk ingtowardsthe HonorSystem from where the unofficial motto was, “If System through the eoneeot of a rnn_ Zhptlcatttzjho ft”: H0h0ISY5t°T:l’Vhh1h Cadaver Society dominately new staff this year, as
the mom andpopshopsbeyondthe Y0" aﬂhtcheahngr Y0“ alnlttfylng-” tual trust also has the potential to l’ dull SO 6 Camhllsllll lls ah Y°”‘P’°ht““S°tt35tYearstemmed
Co1onnadc_ Howcvcr, all too of- The fact is that few understandthat create a dangerous mindset in that P_hCat'Oh as 3 Code Of ethtcs tater 1" t primarily from apathy and incom-
tcn, wc get caught up in the “pet. the value in honor comes from keep- some individual‘ life. 'll“thel:wo should not be confused. Dear Editor, petence. I was dissapointed by
I 50"-‘ll hen‘ thgh-Thatstmple Heslinga’s singular reaction to l l. lll ll Safe lo Say lllal W&L’ , , The Rr”3““’" Phi» "°tt°tth° thst
ll efits” of the “ act Will t6St YOU being duped as an unwise consumer Amell.C2.l alldllle real world alhdlspalr Thls letter ls addressed to the Ca‘ time‘
Honor System In this f3St"P3Ced W0rld in ways YOU 0311- illustrates the nature of this mind set, ale lllllllles “llllcll vary gleally.lll lemls drlvel Srlclely l At Yohthahdsa the S3dde5tCh3P'
and lose the you will be ten-lptcd to 1103 hﬁgth t0 fortunately in a relativel)’ harmless Ohllllﬁslylé’ ldeolrlgy ind elllcllcs ll ls tel lh my llfe ehdhres‘ Every lsshe
P°tht of What 4: 9) . imagiheibutyou way. I3)’ complaining about the mis— l .6“: Ole lmpelallvel at Stu ems re‘ Dear Members’ of The Rr”g't“”‘ Phi’ Save Ohly
tr’ General Lee thI'OW honor III that wlllllndstrength trust and alleged lmproprlety of SeV_ ahze that the Hhhol SYSt°m PTOPCT I l _ your most recent edition, heralds
r W3m¢d- category Of things that Und€fﬁf€- When era] local vendors, Heslinga reveals Cahlfhty h: 3PPh_edl0h CamPU5- t I know your organizationtis full of your own virtues with Hollister
Sure, it is d _ ,f_ 1 t others are l,llr_ his own mlsoohoeotlort of the reallS_ 0W: t C t)’P'C3 Ie5P0h5e 0t the school spirit for W8iL, so I d like to Hovey’s photo ofthe very private
greattobeable ha 518111 lcance on y a dened with cynl_ tlo hollnrlarles ofollr Honor Systemis (C bring to your attention a matter that notes and flowers left outside Gil-
to leave your one moment in time.” cism, you will jurisdiction. It is not the responsibility directly atttfcts W&L_a"d 0UrS0°ioty- liarrt Those were not meant to be
AC bikes and per— )7 ﬁnd hope. And, It is not the responsibility of Lex- The matter is the taping of paper oop- exploited by your paper to add a

ies ofthe symbol of your organization
all over the campus. W&L’s campus
is known for its beauty and the night-
time littering of the campus is unac-
ceptable to me and to others who ap-
preciatethis beauty. Additionally, your
organization does nothing to facilitate
the clean up of your litter.

I would also call your attention to
the fact that we should all be more
conscious of conserving the trees and
not wasting paper. And now a sugges-
tion to solve the problem: Since W&L
has two wonderful methods of com-
munication, why not make use ofthem
to broadcast your enthusiasm for the
school? The PhoneMail and E-mail
systems willcontact everyone on cam-
pus.

I hope you will think seriously about
your actions and work to change them.

Thank you,
Maryanne Simurda
Biology Department

touch of “sentiment” or whatever
you thought you were doing by
includingthe photo. The items left
below J ack’s window were expres-
sions of personal grief.

The actual article was no im-
provement; it smacked of the in-
sensitivity and sensationalism
found so frequently in your paper.
If your authors cannot deem what
is appropriate, then your editor
should, although the spelling er-
rors and grammatical mistakes
makes me wonder if you have an
editor at all.

I miss Jack as acutely as the day
he died. Please, ease the pain of
those who remember the delight
Jack brought to this campus and
stop using the issue addressing his
death as an advertisement ploy.

On a final note, if the staff of
The Ring-tum Phi does not have
the time or energy to do theirjobs
well, I suggest that they abandon
their enterprise entirely.

 

 

  
   
 
  

 
 

      

 
  

 

ll gate and fraternity parties, swim- indiscriminate praisewhichinthesame plicit within any honor system, per— la hllrlplet rlllr l lrllly rlelleve that these Ashtel’ P°hk3Va loo
l - l TIAA--CREF.
l the ﬁg ﬁlm
We 6:  l Proven
' \2\\t>.\:§ ll) thmttot ***** 
Qt‘ —Mornin3star ratings for the 19 Last
CREF Global Equities Account, CREF Equity Index Account, _
and CREF Growth Account‘ 8' lllfetlmed
We take a lot of pride in gaining
‘l 50 Write IO  N _ high marks from the major rating
us! send your Lexingtgllnal?/Aslgjﬁlgo services. But the fact is, we’re
letter to 540_463_6O equally proud of the ratings we
or _ get in the mail every day from
ph'@w|u -edu s or our participants. Because at
leave it by our ./ﬁx-kaob  TIAA-CREE ortourtootho finan-
ce at room I cial futures of the education and
p.  in the Uni Gfeat Cuts & Styhng’ Pefms on gu,,,ey»»- research community is something
I Coloring’ Foiling’ Hot Waxing’ that goes beyond stars and

"e"'tV cehtet Manicures & Pedicures Facials “”“‘l°e‘S' S°l’°’“ll‘l°ll‘l°““l

, I . . . .

l ll of deposit  in walk_ins Welcome and variable annuities to life

. r insurance and personal savings

OUT mailbox. . . (‘Your sffyl l  plans, you'll ﬁnd we provide

l Please  S if wlllla»ul.“,.RaVdln’TlAlAr the right choices —and the

l . _ _ .

l 1 Ieﬂefs to ﬁve L ' o ded1cat1on—to help you achieve

l CXI , . .

l hundred words.  n  U n d  S C   a l1fetlI’T1e'Of ﬁnancial goals. The

l; _ and rating services back us up. So
we may ed” does Bill.

it your |eﬂ'ef_   0 N S To receiveta free Personal
Anonymous . . Investing Kit, including charges
leﬁers  be   Main StI‘€€t, Lexington and expensesplus our variable
A  h d annuity prospectuses, call us at
pu IS e Upon 1 800 226-0147. Please read them
0 e : 8 . .- . .
approval of the P [I 3 m 6 p m Teresa D8ttOlO, OWHCF carefully before you invest or
Monday-Saturd ay 464-4001 Send money
Executive Edi- . ‘
.r, www.tiaa-cref.org

; tors. (They look
like the rest of Guitars, Amps, PAS, -l l
us but are .

l ll‘ ’ 8;  Ensuring the future
’°°'°l'V °°‘”' DIANA MADSEN sciioiliin   ""°  

   G        h ‘Wt ‘.6 ilvesirris-.l:i:iiri-i

I ., they call "A.P.  _ my til?Em‘:«l’l3£“.'.v2Y.2’.iSill

1 ' - e ”) Ques-  Lexlllgtollt   lei _ e e e it We (M77, Wife  l    pl‘""’ll““*“’““““"“""‘l"'”""“'“““‘”“
I ' Q lilllllle (540) 4lt3_5455  oi.r.::;;::* ...€is:,:;:::.. tc.:=:::i:.s::;:'.. ...°.i::‘.: <::::::...  °"§£.‘.’;f.“.""
  Stai Rating Ntiiillplii stlal_l?.aiiii:i lVllllIIl)l‘Z SllrtllllElltl;l|rlf.El)ngl1Lltll3:3:::"Ol S!atD§:It|ei;g[;r'CI\£:uCllll::l or stnlji:dtlenSgUdNEl,llndltel ol
.\i _.\_,_.t. ~lii]rI)h=’_rll7.'r1IL‘Cl ACC%hlllh[§2%a[ed At_-cot/mtg Rated

. t W" "5 °*4o2- LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BOOKING AVAIL/ABLE: i  _   

ll 4060' It It I, B D] l =l l3 t  l r i;.I'_§  ,. . ﬁll-‘r‘i'i.}‘r3rl>i?L‘.ll.llf..E‘.‘.'.i.l3l7.l$f.1l§lLl."i£il3f.l€"ill$3fI3.‘{.il§7ll3li.‘ffZll~.'?.ll

‘_l —  

 

 

 Solution for b q r| E , gi;<;;;,°:;,;;.,';§, »

. - A . I i m, J  cifirireEe.F°ui:rs i
Ev I-la] drinking drop Hop] ::;f‘;*...".:::°$. /
mes m29.1997 the age to 18 amen’ ,  *

/L-
      As well—intentioned as the new hol abuse but they cannot ignore it,  , "

_ policy of BYOB is, its effective- either. What results is an often-futile .\\ i .5
  nessisdefinitely lacking. Can any- and hodgepodge attempt to bring a ‘C I
one say that they, as result of this degree of control to something that is \ r‘ i
new policy, have decreased their fundamentally uncontrollable. __
It’S hard to call Washington and Lee intake or, even more importantly, So what can be done? Asimple and A
home, when you don’t have 3 house_ Since their desire for such “beverages”? sensible answer is simply to repeal the
1989, womenhavebeen second-class hous- 21'y°a"°td drinking age‘ Utidetage

I-(men the Iﬁft drinking on college campuses would

mg Citizens’ no longer be an issue because no one
This week, the university selected a lo- Laura Knapp ’99 would be«underage_» Honestly, iftho ’ ii

cation for sorority houses. It is now up to i ‘'j‘‘“‘—‘‘'‘ government of the United States en—

rhe Board QfTfusteeS to approve the physi- The situation that has resulted is trusts 18-year-olds with the right and I I
Cal plan of Sorority housing This approval not the faultofa misguided admin— privileges to vote and fight in wars a r I n g I e a g e — O

istration but just signs of a larger then what is the logic in not extending

 
 

will bi? a positive Steip  a t_:am_puSiwhiCh problem — a problem that cannot that same type of responsibility to - it’.

sometimes seems as if it is still fighting the and will not be fixed by any one drinking‘ _

coeducation transition. college administration. ltisaprob- Ifwe are not “old”enough to handle S u e n  m P a I n
Thophiapplaudsthosewhohaveworked lem which lies in the stigma at— our alcohol, how can we be “old”

tached to underage drinking and enough to make decisions and take when lacking ideas for acoiumhi ooiumrrisis at D 3. End the enforcement of the 2-hour parking,

so diligently on the housing issue and call _ , _ . .
the stigma ofthe 2i 'Year‘°id drink‘ actions that Writ have an imPaet ‘ he W&L have a few pet topics they can always fall back limits on city streets for students with W&Lparking

upon the Board of Trustees to finalize the

. . . ing age~ matter how iarge er smaii ‘ en the on. Topics such as the Honor System, student au- Stickers.

measure? m_the1r November meetmg This Prdbiem is n0teXeinsiVet0 endurance Of Our nation? G0Vern‘ tonomy, hazing and how ugly the library is. My Irealizelamprobablypreachingtothechoirwith
Despite its detractors: the success Of the Washington 4 ‘ ment'enr°ree_d fallback topic for the week is parking, or rather, the thissuggestion. Thisisn’tbased merelyon blindself-
sorority housing in the old Delta Tau Delta and Lee by Even though it may [)3 Prohibition did lack thereof. interest (although moving my car at lunch every day
house is proof that Sorority housing can be any means. ho Cress and at times not _W0ri(_t°r the This isnotanew issueat W&L Studentsprobably is annoying.) The two-hour limit is ﬁne for people
It’SafaCt: C0i- p nation in the in whocometotowntoshopatthewidevarietyofshops

a success on this campus. The students

. . . I d ointless it is the res on- 1920-s and it is
living there love it thus far, and the pros- age an p ’ p

drinkin are i i i i . Sim “ineffective  a El.  Metrobexhastooffer.However,moststudentswho
3 sibility of the University

oorne into town spend much more than two hours on .«

 
 

pects for the future are bright. and win 31- for those below Eric Swenseri ’98 the hill. If the school was your job (as it often seems’
The suites rovided for the sororities in waysbeinevi- t0 adhere and enforce the the 21-year-old 'j"'—— tobe), how efficient would itbeto dash outofwork
P . . .
Gaines Hall have never fully met the needs tabiiiy aisoelli laws set by the Common- :”°Sh°td Ittirtiayri °°":iPta'i'ii°d aboutthe piriikingritiienthey god‘: hajrsiirs’ every “:10 mu.“ to move your Cat?
fth h . - -t- __ h- h ate wit eac . . . Of 0nC€,_ In not ran -newsport-uti ity ve ic es,tosc oo . i e _ Besi  think about all thethings we add to the
O 6 “tftgleiilw O Soioilii ‘es W 1C other regard- Wealth of Vlrglnla ” deregulation 0f- iust about everyone on campus agrees about the need cityofLexingtonintermsofliveliness,funand, most
amoun 0 v_V0't tr S O _ 6 women on less of the cir- _ _ fersthe b6StS0iU- formoreparkingspacesanywherenearcampus,there importantly, money. This city wouldbedead with-
C3II1PUS- Having 1313068 WhlCh Can aCC0h'1' edmstanees er r“ies- . _ t'°n- _ _ i is only one slight problem: there is no land available out us, I’ve been here in July, and I almost got
modate 80 plus people will help the sorori- Sewhat Sine P01!" 0i°0"°°1V1"g 3"‘ the 1mPh°3h0"S that i0ii0W within the city of Lexington. Well, duh. Everyone knockedoverby a giant tumbleweed. Anyway, who

and enforcing a Peiiey that is at‘ idwering the drinking age are ex‘ knowsthat. Assumingthatweeliminatesuchradical would the police arrest forbeing drunk in public or

ties with their social functions. . . . .
read)’ deemed t0 tan? EVen thdngh tremei)’ imP°rtant to e°nsrder- with a ideas as paving over the front lawn, no new parking cite for noiseviolations if we weren’there? Students is

Although these houses will not ,haVe a it ma)’ he h°Peiess and at times reiaxatien Of the drinking iawa there will be built at W&L anytime soon. So, to make the pumpplentyofcashintothiscityasitis. Don’tharass
“ art room” or basement the will ro- ' n 1' h ‘bi’ f b t ' 1 - . . .
P y ’- y p Pom essai ‘st e resP°nsr i it)’ 0 must e eenettrren seeia Programs best use of what we have, here are a few simple uswith $10 parking tickets.
vide meal facilities and a common socia1/ the university to adhere and en— initiated for not only college students Suggestions; Uhforruhareiyi those are an the practical ideas 1
meeting Space. force the laws set by the Common- but for much younger children as well. D 1. beam how to park! haVe_ Since 1 sh" have some Space to ﬁn’ here are a 

wealth ofVirginia. lt istrue as well The more and earlier children are in-
that alcohol abuse at W&Lisareal formed of problems that are associ-

few pipe-drearris.

These women will finally have a place TheConalresemblesahighschoolgeometryclass

for their forrnals, their chapter meetings Problem To ignore it with rho atoo with aroohor use and abuse the mostmomings,asrushedormerelylazystudenispull CI 1.Gut the library and turn it intoamulti-deck
and their T11Sh- ho es that it would 0 awa is better the chance of reachin them» "W45degreeanglesmsteadofparkmgpetpendtcutar parking garage’
i’ g y g toth rba90d lf th ht led
Though sorority dues will increase With simply unacceptable and not even before the onset of teenage rebellion. ihehcuh (h I egree aing)e /pirl osieiviilioissrugg D2./X goifoorrforovory Student -r-hiswayiovon r
_ _ .  . Wl I scoo eome . eas o saces. . .
the housing’ the extra cost will be our_ an option. The loss of any present Responsibility and moderation must in the (goomii go fnused glory day because Siuiiiienis if youdoget stuck parking two miles from campus,

or former student as a result of be stressed and a zero tolerance for you’re spared the walk.

weighed by the long-term positive effects pull in at odd angles. And, to help out those who

alcohol abuse is not only a horrible drunken driving must be enforced.

of having a place each Sorority can can its tragedy but a reflection upon our- The notion of “alcohol as a rite of ﬂunked geometry facﬁli 3;i:ini:i:i:S:r:::i:::i§):i::(hF§if:::fi:: 0/fifttiiiii:
0Wh« selves and our institution. passage” must be destroyed. Only D 2- Line the Parking Spaces in the Corral. a mo of running out of Crass to move ihoii Cars 5

This decision, 12 years after the first . Herin liesthe dilemma on which through these changes in the Shelling out cash for white paint to create actual every two houisandamomhofrookingai thegream
female Class arrived at w&L and eight this ‘entire ‘debate rests: college macrosystem can we effect any type parking spaces might make lt.pOSSlbiC forstudents to in Banoi,SeyosaShetowsrheiioaisitheyhcomeup
years after the establishment of the first administrations can not stop alco- of change in our own microcosm. ﬁnd the spaces after the sun rises. with a Solution. Tmsi me.

 

    

   

three sororities, gives women a permanent . . . t’
place on this campus, aplace to call home.  asses and actlvltles _ 
OF THE WEEK great COIIGQB balancing act be mgitum hi
I’m considering chaining W€iC0m€S guest Coiumnsi
. . never seem to have enough time. You’ve prob pursuits and have something to show for it.
rnyﬂf to the  In Iably had the same experience: a calendar full of There is an aspect of rebellion in working for the Phi,  b t t’
due dates, a few heft s llabi and the sixteen tests despite its detractors. lt’s cool to be one ofthe few people YOU are angry a Ou
protest. V Y . .. . 
V your prpifessors scheduied for Wednesday all claim yiviho litiiiowsivhaif flllg-flt4Ii:lPhl rhalilyi means. (/rtihtuaiolyr Something and would 
____J - J H h th irst rig [to your attention, ee 1 oria S a oesn now W a 1 means el er, U » _
un1Orcr:SS(.)iiilg 0: Sn lonmoe we know where it comes from, and we’re determined to t0 gCt 3 public forum fOr h
1 a 6 S * stick to it by stickeri burn!) The hard work is counter— o - ‘
Flnal Vlevv balanced bythecamaraderieofthePhieditorial staff. The your Ideas’ turn In a guest
_ David Balsley ’99 people with whom I worked always made time spent in Colurnn,
 .. . . . th Ph' ff’ t t ' ' .“B b‘ G'l”b A d
- . . ommewmmre .;:.;:::.':.::;'::::.%....::.';.;;:::::;;a .
   There are Sunday nights when the editors get to Therg are three Ways to
Execim.vcEdi.mS Courtney Mm" You may feel that, between your classes, your watch the street cleaners run up and down Washing-
Jason Zach”. extracurricular work and your Greek organization, ton Street, and then there are the Monday mornings gﬁt yOur CO1umn t0 us.
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs you don’t have enough time to get all your work done. when I get to go to a nine-o’clock class with only , .
Asseetate Editor Andre“ Ewing You may be right. three hours of sleep. .      6' ‘C
. I have felt that way recently. It was solely out of I consider the members of the editorial staff to be - -
N Ed! K th M lk , _ _ _ _ _ _
w&,:}:sEd;:o:_: Lia, Dreyriierayum consideration of time that I resigned this week as my friends; it win be hard to not See them on a mall to phl@LUlu.edu,
Tarah Grant Opinion & Editorial Editor of The Ring-tum Phi. regular basis. I have been offered the opportunity to ° ' ' _
0pinion&EditoriaIEditor DavldSBalsley Although I love the job’ I donai have time for it return to rho Phi Starr. rt is an enticing offer, but I      
Sports Editor John tewart - ~ - - , . . . . . .
Copy Editor Crm. wooney Working forthePht can beatoughjob to enjoy. There don t know if liwill be able to accept. it. ” i ‘ box In the Unlvgrslty
Asst. Copy Editor Holly Estes are probably better places to spend your nights. In the meantime, fans of my ‘brilliant editorial _ _
PhozoEdiror Holllster Hovey lt’s frustrating to print outapage ofthe paper, only work will have to put their lives on hold. You may CCntCr Or  It In Our
0"""eEd“0’ T°'“ w“di°“’ to find that you misspelled “anthropomorphism” in be able to content yourselves with the fourth season i “d b 99  th€ L. ,
Business Manager Rebeca Cimy one offyour heﬁidlinpﬁ. Maihy iiieoplie lovedtolgut you ofi‘;ER.”bl liinder(sitani:l/I that] the remaiirliingtepisodes I‘Op OX . yr
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig Own or wot mg ere: as mg on an 6 3C3‘ Wi not e We, 16. T. ooney Wl no mess up - .
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown demic faculty included. The work is hard, but it’s also any more lines). Of course, watching TV won’t help drlve on Jefferson‘
Asst Advertising Editor Stew“ Kim! rewarding. lt’s thrilling to put a lot of time into your you find more time. lt’s a vicious tetrahedron,
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the ‘

undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee 'k
University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Rlng- . .

tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub- I   .  has been your Impression Of  SO far?

scriptlon revenues. The Washington and Lee Publlca- t .

tlons Board elects the Executive Editor and Business  .. i V ..

Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent. 3 T

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub- ’

missions and letters. All subrnlsslons must be in the

Phi office. room 208 of the University Center. by noon

on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-

tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumblsslons {or ht
content and length. Letters. columns. and “My Views"

do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-

rial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of

The Rlng-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes

current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity. N.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Oﬁlce Box 899 . . ,
Lexington‘ Virginia 24450 “There ’s no trouble getting beer at “Beer ﬂows freely for females. " “BYOB = M]. P. ” “lm against it, but it ’s working out.
Telephone: (540) 462-4060 fi'“ter.’tir)’ houses I worry that people would start i
Fax: i540) 4624059 ~—Sarah Healherington '00 —J.C. Waldron and gctziizg excluded though.”
E'mah= Phi@Wh1~ed“ ——F1oyd Stimpson '00 Rich Balzer '00 ——Jessica Helm ’00

 

 

L Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 3

The Ring-tum Phi recalls the past 120 years of Homecoming
traditions and keeps W&L up to speed on the upcoming
festivities. From our glory days of football to the fizzling

out of traditions in the 1960s to the new tradition
of banners in the D-hall, Homecoming has survived.

PAGES 6-7

Cadets engage
in forbidden
..kiss, receive
(Stiff penalties

“.4.

4.

(Qp Two freshmen were

caught kissing under
a desk in the dark,
despite regulations
prohibiting cadets
from dating while
on the rat line.

BY HEATHER MCDONALD
STAFF WRITER

 

The inevitable happened at Vir-
ginia Military Institute last week.
A male rat and a female rat were

(1 caught kissing Saturday Sept. 20, an

act that is explicitly forbidden.
Sometime that night, a member of
the guard team walked into the rat’s
room to perform a routine room
‘check. Finding the room dark, he
turned the lights on and found the
two kissing under a desk. The two
offenders were immediately placed
on report; their actions were re-
ported to the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee handed
down their decision and possible pen-
alty Oct. 2. Both cadets were placed

_ on four weeks of conﬁnement, and

were each given 30 penalty tours.
Penalty tours are 50-minute marches
from one end of barracks to the other.
These situations were considered
when VMI went co-ed, Director of
Public Relations Col. Michael
Strickler said. »
“Visitation with the lights out is

. prohibited,” said Strickler. “This was

added to the rule book this year be-
fore the female cadets arrived.”

Strickler describes the incident
as “not a big deal,” but says the
cadets must receive the appropri-
ate punishment.

“With the military system and
structure of VMI, we must be care-
ful. The message had to be sent be-
cause of the close conﬁnes that we
are in,” Stickler said. “It is simply a
part of military discipline, like the
training of troops. We do not con-
done this kind of behavior because of
the intimacy of barracks. It is even
closer here there; can be one room
with three to four guys and next to
them are three to four girls.”

The incident does not come as sur-
prise to most people at VMI.

“You have men and women, boys
and girls. You aren’t going to keep
that from happening,” said Strickler.

“It’s human nature, andl expected
something like this to happen,” a VMI
junior said. “But I do think that we
need to stop things like this before

they get out of control.” . . . . ,

Letting things like kissing on the
rat line get out of control increases
the risk of sexual harassment, the
cadet said.

“If sexual behavior is not curbed, it
might get to the point where if you look
at a person the wrong way, or give them
a friendly pat on the back, it could be
construed as sexual harassment.”

Cadets are forbidden to date
each other while on the rat line.
After the rat line, male and female
cadets can date each other, just as
long as their partner is not in the‘
same company.

-Kathryn Mayurnik contribited to
this article.

 

JAMES .
WASH,NG1‘.3olr5Eg’?_téI;N UBRARY

LEXINGTON, VA

087 07

24450
W

0"“

    

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Fire destroys English
P"°f9$5°"

ASSISTANT ENGLISH Professor Edward A dams’ country cabin was destroyed in a ﬁre the afternoon of Sept.
28. HoLI.1srER Hot/Er/PHOTO EDITOR

UNIVERSITY

s

.
. \
.5 5;",

se

BY WILL HARDIE

   

 
    
   
    

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Pennit No. 7
Lexington. VA

Monday
OCTOBER 6, 1997

VISITING EDITOR

ire gutted the country cabin

of Assistant English Profes-

sor Edward Adams last
Sunday.

By the time the three ﬁre crews
brought the blaze under control, the
house and all of Adams’ posses-
sions had been destroyed. Adams
was unavailable for comment.

The ﬁre broke out early Sunday
afternoon at the four-apartment
wooden country cabin, about 10 miles
north of Lexington The emergency
services were called at 1:24 p.m. The
Kerrs Creek ﬁre truck arrived within
two minutes, followed by Lexington
andBuenaVistaﬁre crewsandthe
Lexington Rescue Squad

Kerrs Creek Fire Department
Chief Southers said that by this
time “the ﬁre was well advanced.”
Flames had engulfed two of the
four apartments and were starting
to scorch through the back walls of
the other two.

Fireﬁghters entered the house
and attacked the blaze through
the two unaffected apartments.
They brought the ﬂames under
control within half an hour, but
damping down and clearing up
took until 7:45 p.m.

Luckily, none of the inhabitants
were home, but two ﬁreﬁghters
were taken to the hospital and were
treated for smoke inhalation and
chest pains related to exhaustion.
Neither was kept overnight.

Southers said the ﬁre took hold
fast and was hard to ﬁght because
the building was wooden.

Authorities believe the fire
started accidentally but have no
clues as to the precise cause.

PiKA won’t appeal ruling

BY ERIC SWENSEN

and Lee community.

STAFF WRITER

i Kappa Alpha has decided for now not to appeal
the social probation handed down by the lnterfra-

ternity Council, choosing to correct its mistakes.

“We haven’t decided yet, but we probably won’t ap-
peal in the short term,” PiKA President Andrew Cuny said.
“We want to take positive steps and not repeat the mis-
takes we’ve made.”

PiKA was ﬁned $2,500 and placed on social probation

A for the remainder of fall term by the IFC last week for two

violations of the IFC’s alcohol policy.

The positive steps will include presenting new guidelines
to the IFC that will govern how PiKA’ 5 parties operate.

“We’re in the process of drawing up new guidelines
concerning alcohol, security and guest lists,” Curry said.
“We want to present the guidelines to the IFC to get their
input and help and make sure these guidelines comply with
IFC regulations.”

Also important, is educating the chapter members on
alcohol-awareness, Curry said. “We want to make sure
that everyone knows what their responsibilities are and
what the consequences are for failing to follow the rules.”

PiKA will schedule a mandatory speaker on alcohol
awareness for its chapter members and hopes to sponsor
an alcohol awareness speaker for the entire Washington

Curry is hopeful that the social probation won‘t have
an adverse effect on rush.

“It won’t help,” Cuny said. “But we’re not looking for
the kind of guy we’ve seen just once at a party and who’s
pretty cool when he’s been drinking.”

PiKA’s can still socialize with freshman when in
groups no larger than ﬁve brothers, Curry said. “Ac-
tually, the smaller groups might help us get to know
the freshmen better.”

While PiKA deals with the consequences of failing
to follow the new BYOB policy, many fraternity men
said they haven’t noticed much of a change under the
new regulations.

“Not much has changed,” junior Roy Burns said. “I
brought my own alcohol out to a party, and some girl asked
me, ‘Are you really following the BYOB polic_v?"’

“People aren’t more concerned about the welfare of
others,” sophomore K.D. Vo said. “They’re more con-
cerned about breaking IFC rules.”

Doug Peddle, a junior, doesn’t think the BYOB policy
has had much effect in curbing binge drinking.

“I think it’s interesting that more freshman have gone
to the inﬁrrnary this year than last,” Peddle said.

University Computing takes heat,
Students criticize new system

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
WT NEWS EDITOR

The new computing system at
-Washington and Lee came under ﬁre
in the last few weeks in a series of let-
ters on the newsgroup wlu. computing.

The controversy began with a letter
from senior Adam Avitable and four

words: “George Orwell wasright.”

“I don’t like logging on through

Netware and having every move I
make recorded in the history ﬁle,”
Avitable wrote. “It’s no one’s  busi-
ness. What’s next? A retina scanner
at the comer of the computer to verify
who the user is and a three hour a
week limit for checking e—mail?”
Avitable’s other gripes include the
“inconvience” of waiting for the com-
puter to restart each time a user logs

off and the “stingy” $20 per year print
subsidy. Avitable complained about
the disappearance of the dot matrix
printers, which were always free.
Senior Jason Sorens responded to
Avitable’s letter, agreeing with most
of his points. “The new system
makes all file management very

SEE C()l\/IPUTING PAIBF. 2

EC dishes it out:

39 organizations receive

BY JASON ZACHER
—":—"?" EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Forty-two campus organizations
begged and pleaded their cases over the
past two weeks to the Executive Com-
mittee in a desperate attempt to receive
funding. Thirty-nine were successful.

“We had about $450,000 worth of
requests,” said EC Vice-President
Chris Baldwin. “The only problem
was we only had about $330,000 to
give out. We had to shave more than
$100,000 off the requests.”

The club Ice Hockey team asked
for money for the ﬁrst time this year.
After being suspended last season

from the league, senior Dave Bruett
is trying to get the club started again.
The $1,885 they received is already
spent paying for ice time at the
Roanoke Civic Center, where the
league plays.

“We asked for $2,400 for fees, jer-
seys and pucks,” Bruett said. “I’m
happy, though we’ d like to have a little
more. We could have purchased the
jerseys and re-used them every year.”

Baldwin argued that the EC tries
to give the club sports the money they
need to ﬁeld a team, but with the in-
creasing number of clubs and organi-
zations striving for their piece of the

“cash

EC pie, the allocations become harder
each year.

Some organizations came out of
this year’s process unscathed.

Women in Technology and Sci-
ence, a recent addition to the W&L
campus, received every penny of the
$355 they asked for. W.I.T.S. Vice-
President Laura Goodwin was excited
to receive the money.

“We were really lucky,” Goodwin
said. “We think that we got it beacuse
we asked for a modest amount and we
itemized everything.”

 SEE BUDGET PAGE 3

3000

2500

Li re Drive

2000

Ice Hockey

Bridges o commu-Iity

1500 -

Dollars

1000 -

500 -

Duck 5 Unlimiter

Organizations

Wom n's Foru

.I.T.S.

 

    

PACE 2

=C§ECOMPUT|NG

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

difficult,” Sorens said.

Student Computing Coordinator Dirk van
Assendelft wrote a letter in response to Avitable’s
scathing comments. “On most new systems, the
reboot time is less than 30 seconds,” van Assendelft
said. “This seems to be a reasonable time to wait
to insure that your personal information on the net-
work is secure.” I

Looking for ways to minimize the reboot time
is an ongoing project, van Assendelft said.

In response to Avitable’s gripe about “every
move he makes” being recorded in the history file,
van Assendelft said, “We do not keep any history
files of your Netware activity.”

“As a matter of fact, it would be simpler for us
to record your every keystroke on Liberty than it
would be to monitor your Netware use.”

Executive Committee Vice President Chris
Baldwin wrote a letter in reponse to the crossfire.
“  I find the new system very frustrating to those
who are accustomed to liberty,” Baldwin said.
“I’m still uncertain as to what was so wrong with
Liberty  it accomplished all of my e-mail needs.

“I’m sure that there are a few students out there
who are adept enough to take advatage of the new
system’s perks. However, for the overwhelming
majority of returning upperclassmen, I don’t be-
lieve that they have any clue what these perks are
or how to take advantage of them.”

Van Assendelft also responded to B.aldwin’s let-
ter, stating that W&L was lagging behind similar
universities and was well behind the “real world”
last year, and the change was needed.

Correction

Last week, The Ring-Tum Phi in-
correctly reported that the inﬂu-
enza vaccine will be offered at the

A Health Center from noon to 1 p. m.
daily and 6 to 7 p.m. The vaccine
‘will be offered daily except from
noon to I p.m. and 6 to 7 p.m.

Phi lunchtime poll:

IICWS

Yet another week of
total randomness

BY DAN BIRDWHISTELL

We have once again decided to stalk
people in the D-Hall in search of the
most profound, meaningful thought of
W&L students.

If someone from the Phi came up
to you during dinner today and

asked you a question for the
newspaper, what would you do?

I’d probably ignore them and walk
away.
— Bryant Adams

Who is your favorite lunch
worker?

Wanda, cuz she takes care of me. She
helped me one time when I was chok-
ing. She calls me Texas Boy.

—— Nathan Urquhart

Why didn’t you eat the turkey dogs
tonight?

I’m not that bold.
— Rives Granade

Why did you eat the turkey dogs
tonight?

I just love turkey.
— Josh Glober

Do they have turkey dogs in Tur-
key?

No, we do not eat turkey.
— Didem Akyel

How were your turkey dogs?

They are eating my stomach! ! !!
+ Patrick Wright

Did you ever wonder exactly what
was at the end of the conveyor belt
in the D-Hall?

Yes, I have. I think there is a small
man running in a wheel that keeps it

going. When it stops, it means that the

STAFF WRITER lunchworkers forgot to whip him.

-— J .C. Waldren

How do you pick the best banana
in the D-Hall?

They are long and bright yellow.
— Beth Meyers

What is that? (pointing to a
rounded, yellow, mushy thing in
a bowl)

It’s Polenta. Want me to spell it?
P-O-L-E-N-T-A. It’s not very good.
— Alexis Yee-Garcia

If, after a long night of partying,
you returned to your room to
notice that your roomate had
brought his pet goat over, would
you stay or leave? Why?

Ah, $#!%, I can’t think of anything
witty.
— Aaron Knoll

Are you excited about Bruce
Homsby coming for Homecom-
ing?

Yes, more thrilled than I have been
in my entire lifell

What does he sing?

I dunno
— Keenan Weston

If that guy over there offered you
a piece of candy, would you
take it?

Warily
-— Shari Henderson

If you woke up one morning duct-
taped to Old George at the top of
the Colonnade, what would you
do?

I’d yank out a stogey and smoke it.
— Matthew Gooch

OCTOBER 6, 1997

 

UNIVERSITY PARTICIPATES IN NATION-WIDE
PROGRAM TO SCREEN FOR DEPRESSION

University counseling psychologists will offer anonymous, free screening and
conﬁdential interviews as part ofa nation-wide program on Oct. 9 from 9 a.m. to 5
p.m. The screening is designed to provide information about the signs, symptoms
and treatment of depression. Staff, faculty and students will be given the opportu-
nity to ﬁnd out if their loved ones may be suffering from depression. The screen-
ing is not meant to provide them with a diagnosis, but to detect symptoms.

WALK TO HELP THE FIGHT AGAINST CANCER

Chi Omega and the Catholic Campus Ministry are co-sponsoring a “Making Strides
Against Cancer” ﬁindraiser on Sunday, Oct. 12. The walk begins, rain or shine, at the
Harris Teeter parking lot at 1:30 p.m. Participants are invited to seek pledges from
friends, professors, family and others for the ﬁve mile walk through and around Lex-
ington. People who turn in the most money on the day of the event will receive prizes
at a ceremony held after the walk. The dormitory hall or residence section most repre-
sented will be taken to lunch at the Willson-Walker House by Dean of Freshmen and

_Residence Life Dennis Manning. There is also penny voting for the “Favorite Dog

Contest,” which will be held outside the Co-op this week.

The American Cancer Society will use the money for research, education and treat-
ment of cancer. Three out of four Rockbridge County families will have a member
affected by cancer, according to a pamphlet distributed by the Virginia Division of the
American Cancer Society.

FILM SOCIETY CANCELS SCREENINGS

The W&L Film Society has chosen the following additional ﬁlms for Fall Term: “In
the Company of Men,” (USA, 1997), directed by Neil LaBute, “Ridicule,” (France,
1996), directed by Patrice Leconte, and “Shall We Dance,” (Japan, 1997), directed by
Masayuki Suo. Due to the absence of their projectionist, the Film Society canceled the
screenings of “Looking for Richard” and “Everyone Says I Love You.”

YOUNG DEMOCRATS SPONSOR TALK

The Young Democrats will sponsor a talk entitled, “Global Warming, Clean Air, and
the Fight for Clinton’s Environmental Soul,” delivered by Dean Ruscio of the Com-
merce School. The talk will focus on the President’s upcoming decision on global
wanning and this past summer’s dispute over the Clean Air Act. The talk will be held
on Wednesday, Oct. 8, at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb 7. All are welcome. If you have any
questions, please contact Jason Hahn at 462-4141.

-C0n’2/piled by Kathryn Mayurnik

®§9

 

INSTANT CREDIT

Guaranteed Credit cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No credit, No job, No parent—singer, No security deposit!
no credit * bad credit * no income?

lleu Ban ﬂualifg To Receive
Tum 0f the ﬂlostlllidelg Used
llredit Bards In The world Today!

Want VISA 69- MasterCard Credit Cards?

\

 

ORDER FORM

YES!

Name

Address

Tired of Being Turned Down?

I want Credit Cards immediately.

C]L_JARAl\ITEEE) APPR®VAL
CRA, PC) BCDX 1 6662, ATLAl\ITA, CA 30321

GUARANT

‘EED $10,000 IN CREDIT

'"““"“‘”“”“"“"“%

 

K

    

OCTOBER 6, 1997

  town red  Virginia Military Institute displays its school spirit with the gigantic

banners, despite their big loss in football to Georgia Southern Saturday. After the game, restrictions were lifted

and cadets on conﬁnement were able to venture out into Lexington. HOLLIS TER HO VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

I1€WS

 

:1» EC
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

W.I.T.S. is an organization made
up of almost 30 W&L women who
bring in girls from the middle schools
to try to interest them in science. Their
program will run nine labs through-
out the year, and the money W.I.T.S.
received will be used for purchasing
items like glassware, lab coats and
even sharks and cow eyeballs for the
dissection lab.

According to Baldwin, the EC
uses four general criteria to determine
the allocation for each group. First,
an organization must show how they
are using the money, and second, how
much of the money has been spent in
the past. Though this is easy to de-
termine for some organizations, it is
difficult for those who generate their
own revenue.

All of the money the EC dis-
burses comes from the $155 each

student pays as the student activi-
ties fee. Because of this, the EC
examines the reach of the group as
the third criterium.

“We really try to see what a
group gives to the W&L commu-
nity and who their activities in-
clude,” Baldwin said.

The fourth criterium is the strengh
of the group. First-year organizations
and publications typically do not re-
ceive funding because, according to
Baldwin, the EC wants to make sure
the group will use the money.

In addition to the money dis-
bursed for organizations, the EC
keeps part of the money for their
operating expenses and it keeps a
reserve in the event of an open
honor trial.

The EC also keeps a portion of
the money set aside in case of emer-
gencies, and according to EC Trea-
surer Taylor Shultz, thelUniversity
requires the EC keep part of the
money set aside in case of trans-
fers or withdrawls.

IS YOUR FRIDGE
OLDER THAN
‘YOU ARE?

DO YOU HAVE
CARPETING IN
YOUR KITCHEN?

HOW LONG DID
YOU HAVE TO
WAIT TO GET
YOUR TOILET TO
FLUSH?

ARE YOU GOING
TO FILE SUIT
AGAINST YOUR
LANDLORD WHEN
YOU GRADUATE?

This Weeks Weather:

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
H ‘I/,e}1_ ‘J; |I_Jt}1, V’; .«J?1;,p.
ih  gilt ‘ill: “I.  g
.p':|.:;§ .-':I-:_'{'  -

High: 83° High: 79° High: 77°

Low; 56° Low: 56° Low: 56°

Fﬁday

Saturday

    

 

Sunday

High: 74° High: 74°

Low: 54° LOW: 51°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

 

events

Nelson Street.

More upcoming

Q Project Horizon will sponsor a candlelight vigil Monday, Oct.
6 at 6:30 p.m. The vigil will take place at Hopkins Green in Lex-
ington and will honor the survivors of domestic violence and sexual
abuse, those still living with the trauma and those killed at the
hands of their abusers. Survivors and those whose lives have been
touched by domestic or sexual violence will speak in addition to a
lighting of the candles in honor of survivors and victims. Music
will be provided by Catholic Campus Minister Burr Datz. The
guest speaker will be Joan Meier, Visiting W&L Law Professor.
The rain site will be at St. Patrick’s Catholic Church at 221 W.

(D W&L women interested in sororities should attend the “Meet
the Greeks” casual “cookies and cokes” social sponsored by the
ﬁve sororities. The social will take place Wednesday Oct. 8 from
4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Liberty Hall Ruins.

DOES YOUR
LANDLORD DE-
SERVE THE
MEDAL OF
HONOR OR THE
BONEHEAD OF
THE WEEK
AWARD?

IF IT'S ANY OF
THESE, OR
SOMETHING
MORE INTRIGU—
ING, CONTACT
KATHRYN
MAYURNIK AT:

KMA‘/URNI@WLU . EDU .

GO

MO

BAGELS * GIIOISSANTS * MUFINS

CINNAMOII ROLLS * SCOIIES &
WIIAT FOLKS SAY IS TIIE BEST
COFFEE THIS SIDE OF SEATTLE

   

lllllllllll

_:.__.__..._.._........—......—.—.........-...-



   

lively bistro

8: outdoor patio

   

9 W. WASHINGTON ST. * 464-6586

WEEKDAYS 7:50-5:50

SATURDAY 8:00-5:00 * SUNDAY 9:00-4:00

 

Breakfast Lunch Candlelight Dinners
Fine Wines Imported Beers ’
Cappuccino Espresso
Homemade Baguettes Er Croissants
Outrageous Desserts

/ 464-1900

19 W. Washington St.

 

J7
-Alafanraideazh Pzwtw

771a So/rg 777a /l/rye/3
.-S/hgflme
’/our 14/is/7 Z/st 64/7
Be 2'?/M/ed

AA.
Obizmhyj" C3/zzbz’

Sunday A 

‘We’
&T ’s 
%/L0 yaw c9lb9{earib
&Sw@m 

zecl/[oi/giant

76‘)/laxwlflt/£amcS’o.

463-7786

THOMAS C.

  
 
 

1

Wll

E SHOP

G-FAX

S MOUNTED

7 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VA

 

f Thu.:

K Sun.:

I Fri./
5 Sat.:

 

 

PAGE 4

RESULTS
football (0-4.)

' Sat.: W&L 3
‘Randolph-Macon .24

Volleyball (9-4)

Tues.: RMWC
W&L
Thu.: W&L

Women’s Soccer (8-0)

Thu.: Sweet Briar
W&L
W&L

SW Texas

_.0

3

3.

Bridgewater 2

0

4

Sun: 3
1

Men’s Soccer (6-1)
E. Mennonite 1
W&L 4‘
iW&L 4
Guilford O

. Water Polo (8-0)
W&L 19'
UVa 3 ’
W&L 14
JMU 6
W&L . 15
Georgetown 11
W&L 15
Rutgers 3 ‘

AHEAD 1

Football

Sat.: Home vs. Davidson

Volleyball
Tues.: Home vs. Lynchburg

Wamer Center at 6:30
Fri./Sat.: Emory Tournament
Men’s Soccer
Sat.: Home vs. Hampden-
Sydney at 2:30pm
Wed.: at Lynchburg
Women’s Soccer‘ 1

Thurs.: at Roanoke
Sat.: Home vs. Goucher at
' 11:30am

Men’s & Women’s
X-Country
Sat: 10/1 l.:iat VA St. Meet

Generals stretch
their ODAC

winning streak to
22 matches

BY KIEFH WIDNB2
STAFF WRHER
t was a milestone week for head
Ivolleyball coach Terri Dadio, who
collected her 100th victory in
Tuesday’s defeat of Randolph Macon
at the Warner Center. Dadio has com-
piled a 100-34 record in ﬁve seasons
at W&L. As well as guiding the Gen-
erals to their lone ODAC champion-
ship in 1995, the Generals currently
have a 22-consecutive-game regular-
season conference winning streak.
The Generals won their 21st on
Tuesday with a 15-4, 15-4, 15-5 win
over the Wildcats. The match fea-

tured the two most potent offensive -1

players in the conference, W&L
sophomore Nancy Reinhart, who
leads the ODAC with an average of
3.53 kills per game, and Randolph
Macon senior Ginger Raymond, who
is second in the ODAC with 3.45.
Raymond won the statistical battle,
compiling 10 kills compared to
Reinhart’s nine, but lost the war. In
the ﬁrst game, a well played game
despite the lop-sided score, senior
Holly Thomsen started strong, scor-
ing a kill in the initial set and then
serving to make the score 2-0. After
trading points, Nancy Reinhart’s serv-
ing sparked another W&L run and a
5-1 score. Randolph Macon then ran
off two straight, but could do little
more as junior Megan Snodgrass, se-
nior Hilary Martin and Thomsen
served to make the score 14-4. After
several sideouts for both sides,
Reinhart ﬁnished the game off with
an unreturnable serve.

In the ﬁnal two games, Randolph
Macon could not muster much resis-
tance to the W&L attack. After the
teams fought to a 1-1 tie in the sec-
ond game, Reinhart served three
straight to make it 4-1. After a ser-
vice point by freshman Mary Beth
Brookby made it 5-1, senior Ali
Beard, who had 21 assists for the
match and is currently sixth in the
ODAC for assists per game, ran off
ﬁve straight serves to blow the game
open. The Generals subsequently
cruised to a 15-4 victory, with sopho-

sports

Volleyball silences Bridg

 

OCTOBER 6, 1997

ewater

TOWER OF POWER

Although the Generals got to the top of this mountain, they dropped their season opener to 1/71/11 in a grueling and bloody battle of brute strength.

HoLL1srER H01/EY/PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR

.* L

more Megan Macy earning the kill on
the ﬁnal point. In game three, the
Generals, behind four kills from
Reinhart and two kills from freshman
Melissa Williams, again had little
trouble against the Wildcats.
Snodgrass did most of the service
work and earned akill on the last point
as the Generals closed the match 15-5.

On Thursday, the Generals trav-
eled to Bridgewater, the defending
ODAC champions and the last con-
ference team to defeat W&L in regu-
lar season play, albeit in 1995.
Bridgewater, ranked 4th in the con-
ference in the preseason, gave the
Generals all they could handle. After
losing the ﬁrst two games 12-15, 12-
15, the experienced players on the
W&L roster stepped up and refused
to let their winning streak vanish.

Reinhart had a season-high 19 kills,
14 of which came in the pivotal games
three and four, when the Generals
faced elimination. Ali Beard had a
season-high 42 assists and a career-
high 23 digs. Thomsen had three ser-
vice aces in game three, while Megan
Snodgrass had four of her seven kills
in game four. The ﬁnal score was a
General’s victory 12-15, 12-15, 15-
9, 15-6, 15-10. This is the second
straight year that the Generals have
come back from a two-game deﬁcit
against Bridgewater. With the win,
the W&L improves to 9-4, 5-0 in the
ODAC, while Bridgewater falls to 8-
2, 2-1.

The Generals will next play Octo-
ber 7 in the Warner Center against
Lynchburg.

Generals remain winless heading int
Homecoming with 24-3 loss to RMC

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
———-————— SFAWWRHER

The Generals continue to search

for their ﬁrst victory of the season,.

as they lost 24-3 on Saturday.to
Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland. '

Two touchdown passes from
Randolph- Macon quarterback
Sidney Chappell to wide receiver

Michael Becker led the Yellow:

Jackets to a decisive victory and
improved their record to 3-1 on the
season. The loss dropped Washing-
ton & Lee to 0-4 for the season and
0-2 in the ODAC. A

The Generals’ offense continued
to struggle as they picked up only
187 total yards compared to

Randolph-Macon’s 460 total yards.’
The only W&L points came on a 32’-

yard ﬁeld goal from senior Matt
Holbrook after senior Matt Luka
returned and interception 44 yards
to put the Generals deep into RMC
territory.

The Yellow Jackets got off to a
quick start as midway through the
ﬁrst quarter Sidney Chappell threw
a 72-yard touchdown strike to
Michael Becker to give Randolph-
Macon a 7-0 lead. The Yellow
Jackets would not strike again until
late in the second quarter when
tailback Michael Hurt dashed 13
yards for a Randolph Macon touch-
down. RMC also added a 22-yard
ﬁeld goal with 0:53 left in the ﬁrst
half to take a 17-0 lead into the
locker room.

The Generals pulled to within 14
after Ho1brook’s 32-yard field goal
following Luca’s interception re-
turn, but that would be as close as
the Generals would get. With 6:04
left in the game Randolph-Macon

put the Generals away after Becker
scored his second TD of the game
on a 5-yard pass from Chappell.
Becker finished the day with 114
yards on 4 receptions and a pair of
touchdowns while Chappel ﬁnished
with 302 yards passing and 2 touch-
downs. The third piece of the Yel-
low Jackets balance scoring attack,
Michael Hurt, rushed for 96 yards
on 16 carries and he also scored a
touchdown.

For the Generals, tailback Seth
McKinley had his best game of the
season as he rushed for 73 yards on
15 carries. However, this was the
only bright spot for an otherwise
nonexistent Generals offense.
Quarterback Christian Batcheller
completed nine of twenty-five
passes for only 102 yards and 2 in-
terceptions.

The Generals continue to miss
the presence of junior WR Chas
Chastain who has missed the last
two games with a knee injury and
whose return for the remainder of
the season is doubtful.

The Generals’ olfense could only
muster up 10 ﬁrst downs on Satur-
day compared to 23 for Randolph-
Macon. The Yellow Jackets also
dominated time of possession; they
held the ball nearly twice as long as
the Generals.

The Generals will try to regroup
for next week as they face Davidson
College for homecoming. The Gen-
erals hope for a little extra inspira-
tion in front of a homecoming
crowd as they will attempt to make
it into the win column for the ﬁrst
time this season. Kickoff is at 2p.m.
at Wilson Field.

 

Results

League Standings

ODAC record Overall

W L W L

Guilford 2 0 3 1

I Emory & Henry 1 0 4 0
Randolph-Macon l 0 3 1
Bridgewater 1 1 l 3
W&L 0 2 0 4
Hampden-Sydney 0 2 0 4

Randolph-Macon 24, Washington & Lee 3
#8 Emory & Hemy 37, Greensboro 3
Guilford 25, Davidson 22

Bridgewater 24, Hampden Sydney 0

Game Stats
W&L vs. Randolph-Macon
W&L RM
lst downs 10 23
Rushes/yds. 32-85 43-151
Passing yds. 102 309
Off. plays/yds 57-187 79-460
Time of P05. V 22:02 37:58

Also in this issue:

Page 5: A preview of
next week’s Homecom-
ing game against
Davidson

Pages 6&7: The rest
of the Homecoming
activities including
Homecoming Queen
nominations and the list
of band parties

Women’s soccer is still

unbeatable

Generals set new W&L winning streak record
with most recent victories

BY FRANCES GROBERG
j"“————'*“' STAFF WRHER
At the outset of the season, Coach
Jan Hathorn expressed her wish that
this year’s women’s soccer team re-
peat some of the accomplishments of
last year’s squad. This season, the
Generals have not only matched their
feats of 1996, but surpassed them.
With their two wins in the past
week against Sweet Briar and South-
west Texas, the Generals set a new
school record for most consecutive
wins to start a season with their im-
pressive 8-0 start. “Down the line, we
hope to be the ODAC champions,”
said junior co-captain Karin Treese.
“Collectively, the team believes that
we can do it, especially this year.”
Sunday’s game against Southwest
Texas proved to be the most difficult
for the team thus far. The score re-
mained 0-0 throughout the ﬁrst half
and most of the second half, until
Treese scored off of a deﬂected cor-
ner kick with 3 :09 left in the game to
give the team a 1-0 victory. Treese,
who is W&L’s all-time leading scorer,
has 13 goals on the season and has
scored seven out of the eight game-

 

5} S

    
   
 
   

P0

to, I ‘,baseb’all‘,playoff action.
Si_n_c‘—l’ve: been trying to dig my
‘ " y._through a stack of resumes and
 to send out, I could care
,. , j s’ whatwilson Alvarez’s pitch
;' countis. _Not that I would normally
j -care. Fortunately, I can log onto the
Internet from a computer lab or
check the Headline News
SportsTicker at 2 a.n1. to see what I
. missed. .

  =7 So far, it hasn’t been much. Both
of the NL first round series ended
. bin sweeps, and Baltimore is prepar-
ing to do the same to Seattle in the
AL. Only the Yankees-Indians se-

ries may go the full ﬁve games.
Although Atlanta and Florida
were clearly the two most talented
teams, I was still surprised that
Houston and San Francisco were
swept. The Astros and the Giants
were two of the most pesky teams
in baseball all season, and both held
off late challenges to win their di-

 

  
 

     

   
ea. lgnmentcouldilbe headed for Liexjl-I

tha  ifriendglyl _ vi,sioris,.- Yeah, all Houstonhad to I
, lurnnist must have 3
ﬁsh V,V6f€1<:‘"V.V1ieIi'he hardly I
ed of the scintillating ﬁrst‘

winning goals for W&L.

, Thursday’s game against Sweet
Briar proved not so taxing for the
Generals, and they cruised to a 4-0
victory. Before the game, Treese ex-
pressed her feeling that this would be
an important game for the team, and
that a win was crucial.

Evidently, she didn’t have much
to worry about, as she put the team
ahead midway through the ﬁrst half
off a cross from Margaret-Hunter
Turner. The score remained 1-0 until
the second half, when sophomore
Ginny Jemigan took a great pass from
junior Elizabeth Richey, blasting it

past Sweet Briar goalie Carol Skriloff.

The Generals also got goals from se-

nior captain Claire Bowers and fresh-

man Liz Olson in the ﬁnal ﬁve min-

utes to set the ﬁnal score at 4-0.

“Thursday’s game was good for us.

It was one of those games we needed

to win, and we all pulled together for

the victory,” said Treese.

The Generals will play at Roanoke
on Thursday, October 9, and will be
back at the Liberty Hall Field for their
game against Goucher on Saturday,
October 11, at 11:30.

   

 

do to capture the lousy NL Central .
was hold oﬁ‘penny-pinching Pitts- ,
burgh, but the Astros appeared on j
the verge of total collapse at sev- V
eral points this year only to some-
how right their ship. Aﬂer ﬁnish-
ing last in 1996, the Giants’, 1,9975?

campaign was remarkable. ":"rne§;. '

got hot at all the right times to. 
outlast Los Angeles. It also helped 7 »

that the Dodgers, the Titanic of 5:

baseball teams, collapsed in the last
coupleof weeks of the season. I
The Orioles, meanwhile, were .
busy drubbing Randy Johnson and
the Mariners in Seattle, which is
nothing short of incredible. This ’
just might be the Oriole’s year.
While the O’s try to reach the
World Series for the first time in
14 years, Atlanta will attempt to
make it back for the ﬁfth time in
the past six postsesaons. The
Braves-Marlins series should be the
classic. Both teams have solid start-
ing line-ups and feature closers

«[0 See BIG FAN
page 5 j

-2

 

  

OCTOBER 6, 1997

   

HOMECOMING PREVIEW

® BIG FAN

sports/ news

PAGE 5

through. For all their dissension, the
owners are unanimous on two things:
realignment needs to take place, and

ginia. There would be no more geo-
graphical complaints if everyone

Sox and the Rockbridge Baths Yan-
kees? How about the Lexington Kegs
(renamed from the Devil

  

 

    

 

Students’ Night
7-9 porn.

“Mluncliies” Buffet -- 

Specials on some drinlrs

Open Mon—So’r. 10-6

played within 100 miles of each other.
4 CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5 no owner wants his team to move. Minnesota, Milwaukee and Colo- Rays)vi.siting the BV Marlins withthe
'  n e  I S h u n g W The ﬁrst plan was to put Arizona in rado would move to the AL Central division crown on the line? And wait V
___ . _ the NL West and Tampa Bay in the and Seattle, Arizona, and the ﬁve re- 1mtilA1b€1‘t 33113 311dth5 I-Yncttbtlfg
, . . 301311116 §it%:g:'F1:r1i;:0;§: AL Central, and move Kansas City maining California teams would form White 50;g¢1tltt\eiTt;|TSg.g131tCe atthie
   r    gofthe lzgames in the Season Series to the AL West. But Kansas City the AL West, The remaining 16 raucous I  anan n ians crow .
, 4.. . dtdn t want to move(although under teams would be split oﬁ‘ into four NL The pOSS1b1llIleS are endless.
and has the best home record in the th f _ 1 , _ _ . Don,t lau h too much becaus
- league. e ecurrent .orr.nat, it won dplay more d1v1S10nS. _ . _ hi lgd h  _ e
of   W Atlanta will probably prevail in games outside  division than inside NL Skyline. Charlottesville, ;I11‘ytTn_g cou appen atk‘ is point.
this gems because ofits Starting pitCh_ it). Then a radical plan, which would Harrisonburg, Staunton, Fairfield I le tvivinstarlelalgelagy  ing about
'1 BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON Struggling Generals» Offense. erg‘ Kevin Brown, Al Later’ and hlave §(t)hIIlpl6tel)l’ geographicaltlly NL Maug §o(slhen,Gllockbridge . 301:: nEb(:lSe;))allcoal:l(:ll‘l;l:,c:(:!:1t1I2‘i
-:———-—-*——STAFi~‘ WRHER “Our olfense is very YOURS; We A1exFemandezare goodpitchers,but 3 ‘gm ema-lot eagueS’appar°n y Bam5’Nam _" ge’ asgow, ': R E: .d ha h.nkg
have a lot of freshmen and S0ph0_ they,re not M 3 d dux’ Glavine and made too much sense, so the owners .NL I-64: Lexington, Buena Vista, 0 0C I1 Se 500115“ 11 Wet 1 -
he big Homecoming foot mores,” said Miriello, “we need Smoltz. And’ Tony Sanders isnat in shot it down. Another plan involv- Clifton Forge, Covington M2}Ytf€ some wealthy alumnus could
I ball game this weekend fea another big threat on offense and the Same hemisphere as Denny ing seven teams switching leagues NL Deep South; Buchanan, chip in afew million dollars so Lex-
'“ tures two teams which are hopefully the experience and the Neag1e. was also put on hold, so now the situ- Lynchburg, Roanoke, Blacksburg lﬂitogtecfltl 6ﬂteft1t_:°tf‘vXP3“51<5’1(; 
hoping to get back on the right ability of Hodge will help.” The other big issue in baseball 3t1°n *5 back t° Square 099-  net?’ f01’m3tW0111_d CT‘-’v_3te 111' 3“ t Ngm 3“: PC ll?“ 2‘; :11 
track with avictory on Saturday at Despite the 0-4 start, there still lately, besides the Pete Rose case’ is ‘Never fear, for I have come up tense rivalries. Can you imagine the sea 2_1tt)’_ lg t  . er a , 1
Wilson Field‘ Seems to be a positive attitude that realignment continues to fan with the solution: send emall to Vir- bad blood between the Goshen Red you build it, they will come.
v‘ The Generals enter the game among the players and coaching
with an 0-4 record and are seeking staff _ Sophomore quarterback
their ﬁrst Victory Of the Season. Christian Batchellor describes the
T116 D3Vid-S011 C011?-86 Wildcats, team as positive and optimistic. A I H I H i : N H 
an independent Division I-AA “The season isn’t over, we still '
it school, will enter with a record of have six games left,” said
2-2 but have lost their last two Batchellor “We tend to finish
games, including a 25-22 loss to strong, and I think it’s justa matter
Guilford. Guilford defeated the oftime before things start clicking.”
I‘ Generals 34-20 on Sept. 20 in Lex- The sentiment was similar on
ington. the coaching staff, as Coach
Washington and Lee has failed Miriello describes his team as
to  a          I N T RAM U RA L T EA M s -
to turn things around on Saturday. “We’re used to coming into I
g, The Generals have especially Homecoming witha losing record.
struggled on Offense as they haVC We tend to rebound well from set-
averaged a dismal 16.3 points per backs, and I know one will drop
game. for us soon,” Miriello added. 4
     As     P LEAS E RE PO RT YOU R GAM E SCO RES
"4 receiver Chas Chastain has not Miriello describes Davidson as an
helped their cause. Chastain’s ca- “experienced team with an explo-
reer was ended after he re-injured sive offense,” However, Miriello
 he         AN D H IG H LI G HTS TO THE RING- TUM PHI
1‘ is a very big loss; he’s a great losses showed some unexpected
ballplayer and a great kid,” com- vulnerability, and he feels conﬁ- ‘
mellted Head Football Coach dent heading into Saturday’s game.
Frank Miriello. “Our olfense is coming around, . .
‘ Chastain is expected to stay in- and our defense is back laying C  t 4 O 6 O 1 -t
K volved in the program as a wide typical Generals defense?” said a   3   a
receivers coach, but his presence Miriello, “ I think it will be a very _ .
on the field will definitely be com etinve am.-,2’ ° Z d d h
missed. However, the Generals are P g p  U. 3 u   t   
9 hoping for the return of senior F I. t. f . . . .
" wide receiver and team captain or a is mg 0   U C t
Nick Hodge, for Saturday’s big Homecoming activities,    e   
game. Coach Miriello hopes that please see pages 6 & Z
the return of the three—year starter
4' Hodge might help jump-start the in
.. “W '
‘ /1 - 6 / lNonhMonSl4eel
ERID Drop By For 
I
i ' lexln ton \lA2llt0
     omecoming 4 »
.       . A    6464646464
-  1 Thursday .
it I

  VERY

Clliccll: our catering specials

Limited Edition Civil War
and W&L Prints

tor any occasion on or cit site

See our website at http://wWw.Webfea.t-inc.comlsheridanlivery

,. 55 North Main Street —— Call for reservations 464-188'? Specializing in Museum  Framing

       

NIGHT OWL MSIC co.

Lexington 's original, RAL alternative music stop.

25 S. Jefferson Street
1‘ Lexington, Va 24450

Open 11 a.m. ‘till 7 p.m.
Monday-Friday

Between The Palms 11 a.mé- 5 p.m.
- - ' t d

‘K & Domino s Pizza 464_405O a ur ay W Q/%M%  Cymd
,1‘ NEW 3, USED _Night Owl will match  2 WWW”. '

con moi onscs ;::,W:.‘::.z;.:;'e:;a::.::9. 
K CASSETTES & LPS sale price on any item! l:l [\l,E_§

ITALIAN
CUISINE

Order by e-mail: nightow|@rockbridge.net

 

 

PAGES 6 & 7

Flﬁra d i t

This is the Way things Were, back when pajamarlad
freshmen paraded LeXington’s streets carrying torches, when foot-

ball was great and Homecoming drew thousands of people to the

bleachers at Wﬂson Field. This is how it was.

CouiziNhYMiu£R

 

1925 —- The Bonfire

' "Get Virginia, Get Virginia,
Get Virginia "Friday evening,
1000 students, alumni and faculty
gathered for a pep rally. Bonfires
roared, the band played and
supporters’ yelled out.

The first speaker, Cy Young,
graduated in 1916 and earned 16
varsity letters during his time at
W&L and led the first of the
university’s truly dominating
teams — tems that are part of the
13 winning seasons from 1905-
1914. He traveled from Helena,
Ark., and continued to travel to
each of the Generals’ games
during the 1920s.

The second speaker, G.H.
Denny, a former W&L president
who had gone on to become
president of the University of
Alabama, which was was criticized
for stealing the W&L Swing and
calling it the Alabama Swing. .
Denny, still fond of W&L, told the
crowd, the alumni, “Strip the
Washington and Lee Campus of
every building and every dollar,
and are leﬁ some things more
precious than silver and gold.”

The Game

On a cold, wet Saturday,
thousands of people crowded
Wilson Field to watch the Generals
play University of Virginia. It was,
as the 1925 Alumni Magazine
announced: “The First Ofﬁcial
Annual Homecoming Day.”

Tickets were $2 and seats were
reserved. Students were advised
that extra seats were added at each
end of Wilson Field_— enough to
accommodate 10,000 people.
November was selected for the
annual game because it was the
most convenient time of the year‘ . ,
for alumni to return. Fraternity
House managers opened the
houses to visiting alumni. The
railroads offered special rates from

9 all over the state, tickets-for the

game were sold in Roanoke,
Lynchburg and Staunton. p
Local merchants were asked to

close their stores during the
afternoon so that everyone in town
could attend the game. It seemed
the whole state of Virginia turned
out for W&L’s first homecoming.

It was wet day, but the Generals
played well. As one reporter in the
Ring-tum Phi wrote:

“Sloshing around in the mud,
though, did not dampen the ardor
of either the Generals or their
enthusiastic supporters so that for
the third consecutive time Wash-
ington and Lee triumphed over her
traditional foe, the University of
Virginia.”

The final score was 12-0.

The Dance

They held the first after-football
dance that night. Southern Colle-
gians, the school’s orchestra,
provided the music. According to
the Phi, “A large crowd from
Virginia are expected to attend the
dance, and an equally large
number of girls.”

This dance, soon evolved into
an event called “Openings.” The
gymnasium would be lavishly
decorated and sometime during the
dance, the Homecoming Queen
would be crowned.

Big-time Football

Those were the early years, the
years traditions began. Between
1925 and the mid 1960s these
traditions and other traditions such
as Fraternity decorations, freshmen
parades, the 13 Club, pep rallies
continued.

For years at Homecoming the
Alumni Association awarded a
prize to the fraternity with the best
decorations. Fraternities decorated
their front lawns (if they had them)
orgtheir houses. They made
banners and carried them during
the Freshman Torchlight Parade.

The bonﬁre and pep rally
eventually expanded to include a
parade. The night before the game,
freshmen in their pajamas and

' other students gathered in the gym

for a‘pep rally. W&L’s (male)
cheerleaders would lead students
in cheers and speeches would be
givenby the coaches and players.

clad, would carry torches through
Lexington’s streets.

Another group of football
supporters, known as the 13 Club,
used Homecoming as a marker
for initiation. Thirteen days
before Homecoming, the 13
Club would begin its
initiation period of its 13
new pledges (who had
paid their initiation fee
of$l3.13) from 13
different fraternities. At
some point during these 13
days, it was usual for the statue of
Cyrus McConnack to be tarred and
feathered and the base covered
with little 13s.

The 1960s

The frivolity of these traditions
soon clashed with the serious state
of the country. Most of the
traditions died in the late 1960s
when 1.: Vietnam war was more
important than traditions.

But it was also a time of new
traditions, Keith Shillington,
professor of chemistry, began his
own. He crowned the Homecom-
ing queen and planted a big kiss on
her check at the football game. In
1990 he was unable to participate
because of a stroke, and he retired
the next year.

The last mention, in the Phi, of
a house winning a decorations
award was Lambda Chi in 1969.
The writer stated: “It seems that
for the most part, an alumnus
returning to campus is a lonely
experience.”

In 1970, Homecoming received
only passing attention in the Phi.
Besides noting its existence, the
article informed students of the
Friday night conceit, a tradition
continued today, and the Saturday
game.

After the game there was a
grain party in Red Square. Star-
tling when contrasted with the
1955 Homecoming issue of the
Phi. In which the E.C. stated its
policy on drinking in public would
be strictly enforced.

The class of 1925, had their
reunion that year.

1930

a
new
tradition
was born.
The
crowning of
the queen was

turned over the
student body. They in
turn created a spectacle of
skydivers and a sealed envelope.

In 1992, the Homecoming

- parade was restored. It looked a

little different: no torches, just
ﬂoats. But was its first appearance
in a quarter of a century.
Kathekon, the student-alumni
relations committee, is responsible
for reviving the Homecoming
parade.

The parade featured a variety of
participants. Non-W&L parade
members included fire depart-
ments, marching bands, and Mayor
Homer E. Derrick.

Alumni groups involved in the
event included the Five-Star
Generals, and the class of 1938
complete with the mysterious
Hotchkiss Llama. Various campus
organizations and every W&L
sorority and fraternity also
participated.

1997

This year marked the loss of the
traditional parade and the introduc-
tion of a new tradition — the
banner.

The crowning of the Queen will

10118

(

>11

W&l homec

I 3
Pi

Julie A.  N

no g

Jjlliil

this Homecm =
end of one, the
ginning of auto
competition. I
Only ffvegyei
coming parade,

W_ASH1NGT.0 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
 

 

 UNIVERS

The Washington and lee Swin

Come cheer for Washington and Lee,
We’re going to Win another victory;

)

The White and Blue will ever wave in triumph, "

For the University. RAH] RAH! RAH!
Fight to the finish we are with you,
Break thru the line on every play;
rush the ball on down the field

and we will win this game today.

When Washington and Lee’s men fall in line,

We’re going to win again another time;
For W&L I yell, I yell, I yell,
And for the University, I yell like hell

And we will fight! Fight! Fight! for every yard; ’

 

I F

    
 

, The’ Genéralsbpen their
ﬁrst football season —
making the team older

 

    
  

  

Washington and Lee’s football tradition began 124
years ago in a game against Virginia Military Insti-

‘ tute.

Not only was it the first meeting between the two
schools, it is recognized by many historians as the
ﬁrst college football game ever played in the South.
W&L’s first official season began in 1890. The sched-
ule expanded to include other southern schools and
annual games against VMI became a battle for brag-
ging rights.

In the early part of the century, the Generals expe-
rienced a golden era of football. The team had thir-
teen consecutive winning seasons from 1905 to 1917
and in 1914 picked up their first title by winning the
South Atlantic Championship. The team continued

 

the team lost 20-7 and finished the year ranked No. 18.

The glory days of W&L football ended in 1954.
Two players were caught turning in tests with exactly
the same responses. The Executive Committee began

as head coach. His excellent coaching skills tumed
the forgotten team into a powerhouse of football again.

The 1959 Generals turned in back-to-back im-
maculate seasons. The 1961 undefeated team was rec-

   

seasons or better seasons and was named the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Coach of the Year in
1996.

The team has yet to win this season.

After students became enthused 19905 continue durin half-time. The ‘
. and spirited, the freshmen, pajama Aﬁer Shi1lington’s retirement in best things nevir die. Yes  God! RAH! RAH RAH!
   at   . A     .  
i 1 The Gbnerd a Follo rig i oééii Lee .. . , |,9*iIitl?TQ1'_"tii/Ieif first 3
4-0 mark in the Southern McLaughlin’s tragic death, W&L win this season against Davidson.
Conference to claim the goes 10 years without a winning The Wildcats beat W&L 23-12
than the Phi championship ﬂag. season. last season.
3!
1900 1910 j1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990
Tn9;eerai§;i1rs;ggoiden vv,’_&L fhdlotballichanges The Ge,i,,i;iera,_. it, , cgjacn Gary
football era ends. Between forever — the Board of Fanon, wjﬁ meiffirst ODAC
1905 and 1917, the team Trustees abolishes athletic championship. It is the first of six
reeled off 13 straight scholarships in order to straight winning seasons for the
winning seasons. emphasize academics . team. f
-Ema‘ to win, but it was another 20 years before they picked an investigation and when the dust settled, incrimi- ognized as the best small team in the nation and Sports
up another title. In 1934 the Generals claimed the nating evidence forced 14 football players and one Illustrated devoted six pages to the team.
championship ﬂag under the direction of coach W.E. cheerleader to withdraw. The team continued to win under McLaughlin’s .
“Tex” Tilson. The scandal, coupled with a debt incurred from coaching, but after his tragic death in 1968 the team  ‘Q
During World War II, the program stopped, but athletic scholarships forced the Board of Trustees to lost its magic. The Generals didn’t have another win-
resumed action in 1946. By 1950 the team was back stop awarding athletic scholarships. Although most ning season for 10 years.
on the gridiron. Led by quarterback Gil Bocetti and alumni protested, the Trustees decided to emphasize - In 1978, Gary Fallon arrived and woke the team
future NFL All-Pro linebacker Walt Michaels, W&L academics over athletics. Big-time football had to go. up. In 1981 they won the school’s first ever Old Do-
won the league title. This decision left the football team decimated. minion Athletic Conference championship. Fallon and J?
A year later, W&L made its first and only trip to a Freshman recruits decided on other schools as did the Generals won it again in 1985.
post-season bowl game. On New Year’s Day 1951, most of the remaining scholarship players. The win- After Fallon’s unexpected death in 1995, his de-
the team played against Wyoming in the Gator Bowl. ning stopped. fensive coordinator, Frank Miriello, began coaching
Michaels was unable to play because of appendicitis, And it didn’t start until Lee McLaughlin was hired the team. He has led W&L to back-to-back winning .

 

  
      
   
  
         
       
   

E

is y

licarosky

 

, Staff Writer
:ington and Lee is
ad for its traditions
ilius it’s ﬁtting that
ring witnesses the
parade, and the be-
ther — the banner
\

:1l'S ago, the Home-
*compos_ed prima-

lANDLEE

rily ofGreek ﬂoats built by pledges,
was revived as one of the activities
for the first big weekend of the
school year.

Kathekon, the student-alumni re-
lations committee, revived the pa-
rade with the help of the Alumni Of-
ﬁce. The parade tradition dates back
to the first Homecoming in 1925 and
was discontinued in the l970’s

T h e
incep-
tion of
W in te r
R u s h ,

    
   
  

"Y

lastyear,
left the
fraterni-
t i e 5
without

  n SN

a thing 1997

ear it’s banners not floats

labor to build the time-consuming
ﬂoats. Although all four sororities
and two non-Greek floats sauntered
along Lexington’s streets, only two
fraternities entered. This lack of par-
ticipation sent a tacit message to the
Alumni Ofﬁce. The ﬂoats were not
a top priority with the students.

Assistant alumni director Frances
Smith, class of 1996, said “For a
Homecoming parade to be a success,
it needs to be student owned and re-
ally desired as something to rally
around. Students need to want to par-
ticipate, but as it was last year, it was
too much of a struggle trying to get
students involved.

As an alternative to the parade,
there will be a banner competition.
Kathekon will provide the Greek or-
ganizations and various
other clubs with most of
the necessary materials;
each group is encouraged
to decorate its banner in a
way which expresses its
individuality, and at the
same time, supports
Homecoming.

The banners will be
displayed in the Dinning
Hall tomorrow morning, and then

SING IT BABY “TheWashington and Lee Swing” has remained fer
80 years the most popular and most widely imitated ﬁght song in
. vl collegiate history. It is the ﬁrst victory song ever composed for a
university by its students.
A copy of it was carried into space on the Shuttle Columbia by
U.S. astronaut and W&L graduate, G. David Low. In 1958, Louis
¢ ‘Satchmo’ Armstrong played at a W&L Homecoming “and ended on
a screaming note with the ‘Washington and Lee Swing’,” according
to the Ring-tum Phi - 1958.

THE QUEEN Natalia Garcia, 1996 Homecoming

Queen, with her date Glen Miller. File Photo

 

    

 
    

OCTOBER 6, 1997

moved on Friday afternoon to the
fence surrounding Wilson Field. In
an effort to help freshmen feel in-
cluded in Homecoming activities,
freshmen will

judge the banners

in the Dining Hall FRE’SHMANl
on Thursday and Be Sure to
Friday.

“I think that the Vote for
banners area good the best
idea because they
will show support banner
for the football either
team during the Thursday
game,” said senior _
Berry Blankinship. OT F1'1d3Y

Many students in the
are unaware of the . _
preparations that Dmmg
an event such as Hall.

Homecoming re-
quires. Preparations for Homecom-
ing are handled entirely by a three-
person staff in the alumni office,
with little student participation; plan-
ning begins in July’, and it entails
working with the Lexington Police
Department and other organizations
in the community.

Thus, “When the police depart-
ment wanted a guarantee of good

100 YEARS.

student participation, we (the alumni
planners) had to rethink whether the
parade would be in everyone’s best
interest,” said Smith.

Additionally, planners had no-
ticed that the annual Homecoming
parade was taking some of the ex-
citement away fonn the Mock Con-
vention parade.

“With a student body as small as
W&.L’s, there just wasn’t enough
support to justify having that many
parades,” added Smith. As a result,
it was decided to skip the parade this
year.

Next year, a 250'“ anniversary
parade is planned, and it will be run
solely by a student committee in an
effort to make the parade a student
activity ag"“n.

Most students seem to support he
planners’ decision. “I think not hav-
ing a parade is a good idea. The
ﬂoats were a waste of time and no
one went to the parade anyway,” said
Ryan Jancaitis, sophomore.

As for the future of this latest
twist on Homecoming, Smith says,
“The banners are an easy tradition
to continue because they do not take
100 percent participation, and yet
they can still be a success.”

    
 

’I'I4IS ARTICLE IS TAKEN FROM THE Novmzaazz 7,
1925 ISSUE OF THE R_nvG—:r'LM PHI. IN CONTINUING
ouzz cE.N:r'EMvIAL CELEBRATION,

WE ARE LETTING OUR

READERS KNOW WHAT WE'VE DONE IN THE LAST

Home-coming and the annual clash of the Generals
and the Cavaliers will undoubtedly attract a record break-
ing crowd to Wilson ﬁeld this Saturday, according to
the advance sale of tickets recorded in the graduate

manager’s ofﬁce. Mail orders for tickets have been
swarming in to the office from all parts of the state and
from other states. Several blocks of good tickets have

been put on

sale

in Roanoke and other

surrounding towns.

Extra seats have been added at each end of Wilson
ﬁeld and every available foot of space will be converted
into seating capacity by Saturday afternoon. There are
accommodation for more than 6,000 now and it is ex-

pected that there will be plenty of room for a crowd of

over 10,000.

A petition will be made to the local merchants to the
effect that they close their stores so everyone may at-

tend the game.

All students who do not have tickets by Thursday
night will have to pay the regular price of $2.00.

And the nominees for best female at a
Washington & Lee Homecoming are ...

 5 I Ashley Penkava, sophomore

   

    
 

Sarah Nash, sophomore
CDKZ Anne Iamar Brown, senior
HKA has other things on their mind
HKCD Erica Reineke, senior

The Bands

  Ben _
The Convertibles
X‘?

F ightinlglgravity

Liquid Pleasure
K2
Beiigaeha
Bobb&)l\A/Iéosssano
Phunlé)-1oAMatic
Closed
em;
Cciiiéi
Deep Ba.i11IaIr<1ax Blackout
l"'tli€cil°“
Spit  Nine

Stayin’ Alive
EX

Uncle Mingo
ZN

Lovestone
ZCDE
Funky Soul Symbols

1925:The first Homecoming story

The Phi Delta Phi goats and the Lexington High
School football team will serve as ushers for the game.

Special rates to Lexington from all parts of the state
are being
given by the
railroads for
the game. A
special train
will run from
Cliarlottesville,
arriving here
just before
the game.
The entire
student body
of the Uni-
versity of
Virginia will
be present for the occasion, occupying the stadium seats,
while the Washington and Lee students will be located
on the opposite side of the ﬁeld in the new bleachers
recently purchased by the athletic association.

Most of the fraternity houses here are planning to
receive their alumni this week-end, to help in the cel-
ebration for the big game, and to participate in a gen-
eral reunion.

 

ZAE Kathy Kitchens, senior
XX Christian Adams Stevens,

   

 
  

KA Caroline Keen, junio 9

HBCD Dana Hood, senior

 

-/'

 

e I OCTOBER 6, 1997;‘

1

    
   

SIMPLE '
SOLUTIONS FOR

THE SOCIALLY
CHALLENGED

 
 

Vnﬁn 100, Nm 2

Sorority housing location I  ;, I
decided

Eh: ﬁling-tum ilﬂhi
ONLINE

    

ugxnnqnuginiz 
ooooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooo piN""Ba°'  ‘
' Miss Etiquette’s tip of the Week: , - '-
Be careful of what you say to potential dates; choose     'n1ﬁ"|I°PIII=¢
the right pick-up line for the right person. For a more in- W “I. 
depth look, see below  .51, ,,,,_,,,,,,,,,|,d,,,,,
coooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ﬁnnlylnvimapluzulocllali
Dear Ms. Etiquette, "am ‘Main db.-"E
I’ve been here less than a month and I’m already bored SMHBI  _
with the Lexington night life. Don’t get me wrong — I  “'3 'I_"“""'*p   

 

v;.r'.' :i

love the fratparties; they just have becomeabit monoto- B‘! mi  " "I"  "ii"  ’ I ‘  ’
nous. How can I spice up my life? . .
-BoredinLex OW, uslng y0llI' COHIPU 91', y0ll Call.
Dear Bored,

A weekend escapade could be just what the doctor or-
dered. After spending a weekend at another university, I
you’ll come to a reciate W&L’s small-town charm. Here ' '
at W&L, you d:ri)’t have to worry about someone throw—     C   S 9   S   
ing up on your feet or getting trampled to death by a mosh L
pit. Appreciate it while you can. Your four years will be '
up before you know it and you will no longer be able to

view boys dancing like animals on a regular basis!     3  

For all y’all who still haven’t snagged a Homecoming
date, here are Ms. Etiquette’s most successful pick-up lines:

I. Are you in my class?

2. Didn’t I see you on the Hill yesterday? (This could .
be dangerous if said to someone who doesn’t go here.)

3. Are you a freshman? (Be careful — recipient may
ﬁnd this insulting, especially if not a freshman.)

4. Did you do your homework yet? (While
a good conversation starter, this can make you look nerdy.) ' ‘b d ° f 1 ' 1 g

5. Where’dyou 5.... W Eddie Bauer or  Sub s cr1 e or a verti s e rom our on me request forms . .

6. You’ve gotta stop by sometime and see my new con- V 1 ' V
federate ﬂag. (Warning — could scare off unsuspecting

Northemers, Westerners or Liberals.)

I 7. Would you buy for me tonight? (Never ask this of a
potential beau. This is tres-embarassing.) " 3 .

8. So, what’d you think of the vote today in Congress?

Do you think the new Campaign Finance Reform legisla- Ar - .
tion will pass? (This will notmake you appear smart; move 1 I I B {E   I
on, C-School junkie.) ' . .

9. Can I get you a Nattie—Light?

‘ I
- A A
...;.?s‘:;.:z::::V:.*:.‘z::’::;;:::;:?sssismss£22‘: |T 5 JUST T" T E 5*

Read your favorite columns

Check U.S. and international papers using our links *

Here at W&L, you’re just another general in khakis.)

.j ‘T
oLppogo9.Qo' \  »
l‘I<IN(1II’I,I~1Su_/‘SOUNDRli'I'IREMliN'I‘IN\'l~.sII\(.
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing ,,
and Accessories *3 , .
Happy Homecoming!
23 N. Main St. I ” I
Lexington, Va 24450 (540) 463-5988
Lexington Laundry Service ~
V and
  ALTERATIONS   *’
22 N. Main Street; Lexington
. g V _ K
Open: 8 a‘m'_6  .Teresa Dattolot Owner Average annual compound rates oftotal return (periods ending 6/so/97)“
Monday-Saturday 464-4001

YOU’RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY I
Guitars, Amps._ RA-s. OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO  *  
& A°°eSS°“eS- INVEST IN STOCKS. WE RECOMMEND BOTH. A I

  
 

  g X T hether you want a fund that selects U.S. stock market as a whole.  ‘ 
     k speciﬁc stolpks, or one tha,Ct)co\/Ce::;sI‘tlIi‘e . lLike our $REF StpckdAccZ1;1t,_thS°I:rge:t ;
. . . . t, ' t sam . ur 3 sin man e ui un in enca, an
    r8:(:\:th:1Vri:dreC(E:EFeEquiteyFl:1€deex Accounts ourggxlobalagzuitihs t./izccount, which actively
Phone (540) 463-5455

1. i’\’r«- linrk. NY

use two distinct strategies for investing in the seeks opportunities 3 ‘ _

stock market, but both aim to provide what  38"/o  /o  61°/o worldwide, our I

every smart investor looks for: long~term ' ' ' accounts are managed  .
r T)‘:-ars Sinc pr ,‘

growth that outpaces inflation.” "W
The CREF Growth Account searches investment professionals. They're the same

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BOOKING AVAILABLE:

e incc ion ' '
4/29/94 by experienced

' for individual companies that we believe experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF  ,
    are poised for superior growth. In contrast, the largest pension system in the world, with 
the Equity Index Account looks for more $190 billion in assets under management. ;

diversification, with To find out more about building your 
    24% a portfolio that portfolio —and your future——-with TIAA- i
' ' seeks to mirror the CREF, just call 1 800 842-2776. And take 1 I

ly

  Ladies (gr [mews
Kitchen Shoppe I

si"‘.°,i§'«f,°=,'l""" experience of the your pick.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org

   

mu) /lnnuiry /lsutrtilllinl/Ctrllryr Rrlirrmrnl I‘)/m'Iir.I HIIIJ. 7 TU Thin’ l‘ll\’llll

  
        

  

’ A A 

‘ Ensuring the future
gar aff our C0051}; neeo/s ..   for those who sha it.“
1 Y 7  pe
Cut ery * Aprons * Bridal Registry 
Pizza Accessories * Gadgets * Coolzhoolzs  °Tl1¢mtaI returnssho ‘
Coffee Essentials * Gift Baslzets * Gourmet Foods  1:‘:   it  ’ L“ "
. o ....::';:T.: :5  ~  :" i"
/22 5011/5 mam csfreel (540) 464-3636 Kx *m~'udins~+~se=a~«'«~ = ‘ " "*7 /

 

 

 .  ' ion

 

C
rial
PAGE 9 OC1‘. 6, 1997

.Road-cheese
Homecoming Queen?

'1 For over a decade now, the boys at Washington
and Lee (we’re not referring to the general male
population as “men” because that is a title that
boys must earn) have not had to go as far to find

5‘'girls for date functions  but wait! Despite the
adequate number of women right here on oompus,
our boys still hop in their sport-utility vehicles and
voyage over to Sweet Briar, Hollins and Mary

x\aBa1dwin to entice those girls (who aren’t lesbians)
to come to W&L for various parties, date func-
tions and, yes, even Homecoming.

L Although some W&L women dream of

‘someday being Homecoming Queen, their
ehanoes are limited because a number of the
fraternities in the past (only ONE fraternity, and
you know who you are, nominated “road cheese”
this year) have nominated “road cheese” for the
{W&L Homecoming Queen title. Let’s say that
’pne more time: W&L Homecoming Queen. This
is our school, and that means that one of our
women should be Queen. We do not refute the

' fact that some of the girls from the all-female
schools are attractive and nice, but guys, wake up!
Look around you. There are hundreds of attrac-
live, friendly, intelligent women right here at

4 }W&L. Or do intelligent women intimidate you?

; We also do not refute the fact that most of the
?‘road cheese,” since they lack the presence of I
:males at their schools, are more than willing to

4 pome to W&L frat parties, hook up and/or spend
:the weekend (we know of girls who claim to be
‘coming for a party, yet they have three-days’
:worth of luggage secured in the trunks of their

1 gears  how convenient!)

' Guys, don’t get us wrong; we don’t expect every

Eboy here to find the woman of his dreams here as well.

3But we would ask that you stop overlooking the incred-
gible females right under your noses (no, not literally 

‘-;that would be a Hollins girl) and ask some of us to
Ifunctions at our own school for a change. Many
iwonderful females are left dateless or must resort to
:,asking VMI cadets.

, i. If the tables were turned, and W&L was
surrounded by all-male schools, how would you
boys feel if you weren’t able to get a Homecom-
ing date? Take a walk in our shoes for a change 
those heels hurt you feet, don't they?

66

" or THE WEEK
I can’t take any
i more country music!
It’s melting my braim
p — Anonymous foreign student

99

° @112 itting-tum lﬁhi

Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs
Andrea Ewing

Executive Editors

K Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor Kathryn Mayumik

w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
‘ Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
Asst. Copy Editor Holly Estes
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
‘ Business Manager Rebecca Cuny
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown
Asst. Advertising Editor Steven Klotz
A

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
V tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office. room 208 of the University Center. by noon

: ﬁt, on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-

tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters, columns, and “My Views“
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
H The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Oﬂice Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Girls, Girls, Girls
on Broadway

I have never met an expert on
erotic dancing, but at least twelve
Roanoke citizens have.

On Tuesday, jurors in the trial
of “art” establishment “Girls, Girls,
Girls” met Judith Hanna, a doctor
of anthropology and “expert on
erotic dancing,” according to The
Roanoke Times. Hanna testified

that stripping is an art form and that

 

the obscenity charges against the
club were unmerited.

In court, Hanna compared strip-
ping to ballet and argued that erotic
dancing requires artistic skill simi-
lar to what you would see at a circus.

I admit I was unaware that
circus performers have artistic
skill. I was also unaware that
erotic dancing is a possible
topic of research.

For Dr. Hanna it is; she has
spent 37 years researching dance,
apparently includingthe kind which
involves a runway, a pole and flash-
ing lights. Her work has taken her
to 23 striptease clubs across the
country. Her expertise has been
requested in numerous courtrooms,
according to The Roanoke Times.

The nature of Dr. Hanna’s work
raises a few questions.

First, how did she decide that
this was what she wanted to do
with herlife? Atayoungage,when
all the other little girls told their
kindergarten teachers that they
wanted to be doctors and lawyers,
didsherunaroundscreaming,“I’m

going to spend my life in strip barsl”
Is she following a pattern of behavior
which she learned from her father/
mother/sick Uncle Leroy?

Second is Dr. Hanna’s book, “To
Dance is Human: A Theory of Non-
verbal Communication,” only sold in
stores which also feature private view-
ing booths? Does it consist mostly of
pictures? Would other “scholars” fre-
quentsuchstoresinordertodo“research”?

Third, where would Dr. Hanna take
her friends? On Friday night, if she
turned to you and said, “I know about
this great little club across town, do
you want to go?” what would you say?

Dr. Hanna’s testimony from the
trial is even more interesting than her
line of work.

At the trial, Dr. Hanna argued that
the female body is of special interest
to many because we all come from the
female body, according to The
Roanoke Times. Men like strippers,
then, because they remind them of
their mothers. That would explain
why, among the cries of “Hot damn!”
and “Yeah, baby, yeahl”, men fre-
quently shout at strip clubs, “Hi, Mom,
I did well on my math test.”

Dr. Hanna also compared the strip-
ping at “Girls,Girls,Girls”toaBroad-
way production. If Broadway is any-
thing like a strip club, l’ll skip “Cats.”

Dr. Hanna’s 37 years of research
was not enough to convince the
Roanoke jury. “Girls, Girls, Girls”
was found guilty and fined the maxi-
mum possible punishment, despite Dr.
Hanna’s efforts.

The owner of the establishment has
vowed that the club will remain open,
however, and that the dancers will
keep dancing.

“Art” marches on.

 
  
 

  

  

 
 

outdriitkin

 

 seejust how silly’ and ineffec

  
  

In a far, away land, with the [yellow-nosed zouses, 7
Live happy fratboys in tlaeizhappy fr_at1iouses.* " 
The Phi Delts,,the Fijis,-the 1’iKA'.s~and Bi Phia
1 The Phi r<aps,I:he sees, the Snus and the.Chi Psrs ,
 They party all ‘day, they party all night.’ "
 . iTl1ey-party with gallons of Natnrai-Light.“ii

 

‘ ."But a grouchy old grinch iived,rigirt, next‘ door. ‘ ’ I
He gettingiquite: sick of no sleep" before, fouzfi.
_ ’?he‘.grinch wanted .peace and 1ie.wanted.fsornetqur
are would get better sleep, in athirty-?block‘riot-.)..,

 }._.  But the grinehhad a devious thought in hisheadk :
  Steal an their beer and they’ll‘ithen‘ go tqbea. , 

ifv”ifhe:very next rnorxriqng, passe,d‘o_ut‘on"the floor. E, _
,;'I‘hey‘rnissed the grinch sneaking i1__r:..,tl1_r,ough,the doo
'  He took the hard ‘liquor and ‘ziilljtheiitiaps
‘I lie Stoleail the Coors, the’BiiCI arrdthe Pabst. ';

. _ He, smashed all their bottles, of ruin ands of gin,
And flushed an the Becks and tl1e"Killiaa. I

;.tri.e’yé;‘e ‘art smok: I post-—i ‘

whiaisreéallynots¢much.anat:¢:n;:t"
  BYOB policy. is sofunny thatomakingjokes abo V t,it[1s ‘

  
     
 
 
   
    
   
      
   
 
  
  
   

the e

  

 (sup rm
1" 

 

“I know something about a ‘piano

BEERNUT5
HEY CHUCK -

l<lCl<lN' PARTY!

   

You LADIES IJANT
To c;oMe up AND
see mv GRBRT
PUMPKIN?

<a+uT%~—-

LET'S G0,
SIR.

 
 
  

Drinking not solely a
fraternity experience

“The answer, I think, is for colleges and
universities to do away with the selective cam-
pus fraternities and sororities that have bullied,
insulted and hazed their students for genera-
tions.” -Walter Kim, The New York Times,
October 3, 1997. i

 

I don’t know how many of you read TheNew
York Times, so it’s likely you missed Kirn’s
column. In light ofthe alcohol-related deaths of
two fraternity pledges in the last few weeks and
his Aownexperiences” as an undergraduate at
Princeton, Kirn believes all fraternities and so-
rorities should be abolished, saying that frater-
nities and other social clubs “exploit students’
desperate hunger to fit in” by encouraging, even
pressuring them to drink heavily.

Kim is sadly mistaken if he believes the
pressure to fit in and the pressure to drink
are restricted solely

five after five, and we stayed until the bouncers
kicked us out at five after 10. Suffice to say,
this kind of offer doesn’t encourage the aver-
age college student to merely sip his beer.
Laterthat night (or so I was told by my incredu-
lous friend the next morning), I dove head-first
off a bunk bed onto the concrete floor. Yet,
strangely, I didn’t see a fraternity man all night
or go anywhere near a fraternity house.
However, Kirn’s column makes a more
damaging assertion, at least indirectly. What
he is saying is that fraternity and soroity houses
are nothing more than places to drink and
party. I don’t believe this is true. Being an
officer in a fraternity or sorority can provide
excellent leadership or ﬁnancial experience.
As far as I know, every fraternity on this
campus maintains a cold test file, designed to
help their brothers succeed academically. Many
fraternities do fundraisers or other community
service projects. Last weekend, for example,
Beta held afoosball tournament to help pay the
funeral expenses for their cook, who died over
the summer.

to college fraterni- ‘‘
ties. My first year-
and-a-half of high
school was miser-
able, basically be-
cause I didn’t drink,
while everyone else
did.Oncelwas more
or less dragged out

Kim is sadly mistaken
if he believes the pres-
sure to fit in and the
pressure to drink are
restricted solely to
college fraternities...

So why, then, are
fraternities’ reputa-
tions so poor? The po-
tential to do the posi-
tive things mentioned
above go untapped
more often than not.
Think about how fra-
ternities sell them-
” selves to potential new

of my house by some
teammates on the
basketball team to drink with them, the last
two-and-a-half years of high school was a
wild ride and a crazy time. Alcohol opened
the door to all that fun.

Kirn also cites surveys that show fraternity
members drink more and are more likely to
engage in binge drinking. I have no surveys to
back up my claims, but rather some powerful
anecdotal evidence l’ve picked up on my visits
to other college campuses, places Kirn probably
hasn’t been to in 20 years.

Two years ago, during Thanksgiving
break, I went to see a friend of mine at
Marist College. I arrived at his dorm room
around 4:30 on a Saturday afternoon. My
friend asked me if I wanted to go to a
“drink-up” at a bar in town, which consisted
of all the beer you could drink for five
dollars from 5-10 p.m.

We were the first two customers in the bar at

 

man, ’ but I don ’t think that’s him. "

—Johnny Bubb ’00

“Yeah, we do. We're his biggest fans. ”

—Vanessa Chen ’0I,
Megan Mulligan ’0l

members. Rush is of-
ten nothing more than one long party.

Once these freshmen pledge, what do
fraternities do to show pledges that there
is more to fraternity life than band parties
and kegs in the country? Fraternities make
themselves easy targets by encouraging
portrayals of themselves as nothing more
than a place to party.

Fraternities are under siege. I guarantee
that there are college administrators
throughout the country reading Kirn’s col-
umn and agreeing wholeheartedly with
what he proposes. Fraternities here aren’t
threatened. Not yet, anyway. Fraternities
need to differentiate themselves from two
dollar pitcher specials at The Palms. Oth-
erwise, when you come back for Alumni
Weekend ten years from now, your frater-
nity house may be substance-free, and fra-
ternity-free as well.

*5 ck: Who is Bruce lqjornsby and can you name his songs?

    

‘I.

“Not before I read the titles. ”

—Kenneth E rvin ’00

 

  

 

PAGE 10

opinion& editorial

Highschool textbooks in Lex?

True story:

Wednesday in my 9 a.m. class,
Sarah Meldrum informs me that I
should stop by the library to pick up
alost item.

“A what?” I ask.

_“You left somethingthere last year,

‘W-an Hick ROW

  

and you should go pick it up,” she
repeats. “Your name is on the list.”

That’s strange, I think. I don’t
remember losing anything last year.
So I forget about it.

Class ends; I do homework, eat
lunch, go to lab. An uneventful day.

At the end of lab, Sarah asks, “Are
you going to go to the library to get
your lost item?”

Yeah, I think I will, I say. I am
curious to see what they have waiting
for me. '

At the circulation desk of the li-
brary, I find the list of people who

, have left things at the library.

My name is on it. It’s misspelled,
but it’s me.

I tell Kelley Joy from across the
desk that I lost something last year.

“It’s Balsley,” right?” she asks.

“Yes,” I say, “but it’s misspelled.” .

Kelley walks to a set of shelves,

 
    

‘\

u. w-- .\w \ \-
z/. \/ M1 ._\//.3./‘._\
‘.~2/.*f~«r<‘\‘~e<*.‘\‘-944%.-44x

     
   

\

’ \'7~\>7~\'7~\:»/=\°7*\>7~\>:/~
.  .\

    

    
    

    
  

o ;..\\

‘by Herman Melville.

\\>2;"»‘/\\,7:?,’x7e\>/a '

looks around a little, and pulls down
something and hands it to me.

“Here you go,” she says.

I look at my lost item.

“What is this?” I ask.

Before me sits a large, burgundy
book, about the size and weight of a
Bible. I ﬂip through it a little.

Kelley asks, “What?”

Kelley again asks, “What?”

I turn to the front of the book again.
Inside someone has stamped, beside
my name, “PROPERTY OF THE
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA DE-
PARTMENT OF EDUCATION
ACT195.”

I am holding my English textbook
from my senior year of high school.

9 Sure enough, ‘‘
inscribed on the
inside is my
name, “David
Balsley.”

I ﬂip through
it some more. I
recognize short
stories and po-

Somehow, I think, my
English textbook from
my senior year has trav-
eled hundreds of miles
from Pittsburgh, Penn...
(and) has managed to
return itself to me.

How did this
get here? lwon-
der. Did I bring
itwith me? What
would I have
used it for?

It’s possible
that I packed it
and brought it
with me fresh-
man year — no,

ems.
“What is
this?”Iask again.

I turn the book over so I can read
its cover. It’s the sixth edition of
Literature.‘ Structure, Sound, and
Sense,” edited by Laurence Perrine
and Thomas R. Arp. I open it again.
I recognize “Bartleby the Scrivener”
I recognize
“Defender of the Faith” by Philip
Roth. Without thinking I start to

_ look for Ernest I-Iemingway’s “Hills

Like White Elephants.” I have al-
ways liked that story.
I have always liked that story —

‘since I read it in high school.

“Oh my God,” I say to myself.

SHOE
by Jeff MacNelly

 
 

' I 3*‘ 7 ‘ ‘ 7.
”",-}‘»;‘\’9/. . , ' 4 .-2/,/‘\'.:>‘x,/".-//,

\ \- ,,\ ,~\ ,~\~ ,~\o
.,~,\_,~g;.,,< 2,\,’~\ ’ :;>fx\2,>’\ ‘

wait, “Property
of the State of Pennsylvania”; I re-
turned this to my teacher Mrs. Lynch
at the end of my senior year.

But the book’s here, I think.

Somehow, I think, my English text-
book from my senior year of high
school has traveled hundreds of miles
from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and
through the services of Leyburn Li-
brary, has managed to return itself to
me.

I tell Kelley: “I think my high
school textbooks are stalking me.”

True story.

 

Washington and Lee University

OCIOBER 6, 1997

‘hens-mm

we
° \2tto:a

So write to us already!
There are four different ways
you can get your letter to us!

First, you can e-mail it to
phi@WI11.€CI11, or drop it in
the Phi's “DI'Op BOX” on

the L: drive of Jefferson.

If computers and e-mail are
not your thing, you can put it in

our mailbox in the Uni-

versity Center. Ifyou want

to walk a little further, you can
take it to our offices at room

co as
to the max:

208 in the University

Center.
All letters should be limited

to 500 WOICIS, and we may

edit your letter. Anonymous
letters will only be published at

the approval of the EX-

ecutive Editors (they look

like us, but are secretly pow-
ered by a force they call “A.P.
Style”).

If you have questions, please

feel free to call our offices at
462-4060.

I I snu THINK we SHOULD
PAS

  

WHAT HAPPENS
IF YOU DON T
BALANCE THE

BUDGET
AFTER THAT?

5 THE BALANCED
BUDGET AMENDMENT.

0 '1‘ I
1 j/.§f.->4 ./I.\e/<\.9/r.\.g/4\-/4

Remembering

General Robert E. Lee

A Memorial Service
Commemorating T/oe I27t/7
Anniversary ofHi5 Deal‘/7

Sunday Afternoon, 12 October 1997
at Five Minutes Past Two O’Clock

Lee Chapel

GUEST SPEAKER:
Mary Tyler Cheek McClenahan

 
  
 
 

.'\' ‘z
\

//.~ 9/;-\
.":}\r,".-74

     
    

m 

  
 

  

Tl-EN WECAN
1 BLAME IT ON THE

 
  

o/goo o.~

\- ;\ o,/‘»\v /"~\-,,‘\p r \. "\. ~ 0 . . -
. L .

<1

 

 

s........ .. .. \ .....-...t...i...«.=. )9l.n.H

ll OCTOBER 6, 1997

 

.A.A.J(\Atu.A.A.'

Pizza in the Co-op:
morning, noon and night

 

:1; MMMM!

BY SYBIL 

STAFF \WRrrF.R

learned long ago: “Leave the cooking to someone else.”
In past years the Co-op would follow its own recipes to
make the dough and sauce for the pizzas. The chef du jour

It’s 10 p.in. on a Tuesday. You have about hundred might add a little more of this or a little less of that - the

hours left of studying to do and your
stomach is as empty as a beer bottle
on a Friday night. Your taste buds are
screaming “pizza, pizza,” but your
wallet is screaming “Hey, don’t look
at me! I haven’t seen anything green
for a week.”

What do you do? Well, you could
join the hundreds of other Washing-
ton and Lee students who have
discovered the delicious yet “wallet
comforting" taste of Stone Willy’s Pizza.

 

W&L’s Co-op rescued students from the “I’m too poor

to call Dominoes or Pizza Hut” blues. Cheese

lovers,

carnivores and veggie lovers can satisfy their pizza

cravings at the Co-op.

“The sausage pizza was good; I genuinely enjoyed it,”

said Sonia Hall, sophomore. "

This is a 180-degree turn around from the feelings
students held about prior pizzas. “Last year’s pizza was

really bad,” recalled, Ezter Bados, sophomore.

What accounts for this sharp contrast? Well, it’s a
simple concept that kitchen illiterates and couch potatoes

result? Less than appetizing.

“Now we buy pre-made dough
and sauce,” says co-op manager Don
Burch. “The result is a better quality
pizza with a more consistent taste,”

W&L students show their appre-
ciation for the tongue-tempting treat
by purchasing almost nine hundred
pizzas a week. That’s a lot of dough!

Probably a lot more than Miss
Willia P. Stone ever expected.

According to the legend, Miss Willia P. Stone was the
world famous explorer, writer and culinary innovator who
founded the Stone Ground Flour and Breads Company.

But not all students are in favor of the ﬂavor. “It tastes
average if you’re really hungry. I wouldn’t eat it if I had
another choice,” said Colleen Benjamin, freshman.

“Sometimes it’s good, sometimes it’s not.” Senior
David Butler adds, “Either way it’s too expensive.”

The majority of W&L students, however,
thanking the ‘pizza gods’ for sending Stone Willy’s
their way.

are

.C9_ld_.B1i,ﬁets  

-'.ll'll.lUClb 7: condiinmts}

The Executive Rolls Royte
$39.95 $54.95
-.'?>erve.~ 18 to Z0} {Semis B In 23‘;

llbs Iioast Baal 1 lbs. Roaslliocl

l lb. 'l‘url<L"y ‘i ll). Koshetr Salami
l lb. Ham 1 lb. Ham

I/1 lb. lrfusliez‘ ﬁzilami l lb. ’l'iirl<ry

I ll). ".~S\'L<$ 1 lb. (hm Beef

1/.’ llt. l’ro\'olor't’ Ci’-’l lb .“\Wl5h

3/-T lh. .\".l18f1SlEI‘
The Continental The Graduate
$i‘.’.°_7 $29.93

I'*rr‘.'tas 2‘; (0 1’; ; "Serves IV} to l.’~'.=
1 ll)»; lliiiti l l/'2 lb. Roastﬁeel
l lb l<n.~l‘ici*'\alami 3/4. lbliain

lib. .\'lt‘Sqllil(" I ll 1 lb l‘iii'l<ry

E ii llxs. Roast Heel  lb. Swiss
3f~l lh .~\ineri't.3n l’l lb Muertstei
14 lb Viriensrrrr
f>paiil<v‘s Delight International

5+1 er?» $39.03

<$eF;es I8 lt‘- Liv i’$cr*:e.~' 2'» to ‘S0?
1 lfllh. Roast Ilettl Ill) llum

lfl lli. I-(ti,sl1r1' Salarni '2 lbs. Rmst l.’v£‘.t.’l
Ill). lliin I ll) l§«..6l1fl'f>ﬂlilml
I lh lirrlsrx l lli.'>,»ms‘

3" lb. Nixx I lb. l‘iovolono

3/4 lh. Nliimster Zlhs. ‘Trinity

1 lb. Com Beef
l lb. Aiiiericiii

Brent} ’l'"r‘tiys
Priced t1§C()lIlIl‘i;Z in the nnrnber 0 people A ‘IOC/person

lrirltidzs xx hittz vrlmt iw and pUII’il')(’.lTllx‘l\t‘.l rolls
(.1 ores-ants - 736 extra rah

Rrlislt Trj{i§,;,5

    

l ..l . llkalll .4.~.~oriineri‘. (ll lr‘,IIlk‘F. lDll‘d10_l’>1»'.il'(lt'T.llKl olrves. 81.00 per person

Turkey Balietl Hair
Roast Beef Millltfotli wf Nlaiirrara Sauce.
Meat lasagm V‘ table laaugn
(}iit;l<eri Panmssaii Baltndl ' 'lyBmded Chidien
Mzsqulir. Bﬂktll Giickm Kriozkmirsi and Snuerkniii
Hot \:'e:§1ah.l§§._§:_Salads.
Green Beans Broccoli w.:’ l‘lollandaise
Mashed Potatoes Baked Mmimni in Chorsc
Boiled Bmwncd Potatoes Coleslaw
luliar. Salad Potato Salad
Macarorii  Tossed
Czeniiaii Potato Salad Fruit Salad
Fruit Salad Cooides Brownies Applr Cobble‘

Alioirvailable, lr_)'m4It’lIt€S¢(dl!t$f7'}i¢S avu'lablc¢I- niitimdtm.

B_u_lTet_.Pri.c.es.
Option I $7.95/person  2 $9.‘?5/‘person
CJro‘ior,: 2 Entrees Clii)ic€.: .3 lintms
4 \»’egis.’.~‘aliirls 6 \’cgits/Salads
‘lnessezis 2Dessatsoi‘l[)csscn’l'r-my

liitlieiwhoicc nicltzdcs. roller. tea. letiiniiadc and rolls wiili butter.

£_li§§:e:;.1fz:rI.}?.s:
Cheese. trajis ronibiiic assomtresii of the lines: tzlmrsae milalilc.
hicludes liuit and 
Si 3.95 [serves 10 to 15) 529.91‘) (srms 1:3 to 35)

l.lTgt?I(ll).l.¢T.IT..ﬂ \.::5
A conibiriaiion ol lrrsh wgciablcs {in smsonl
ariaiiged ‘Mill llair Jmitrid vegeiiir‘-le dip.
$l°.9S (saves I 3 to 10‘: $19.93 (_scI\’cs 23 to 30)

All prim! .sepm'uirl_y, piazsc ask you:  avmng cimttltuntfor pricing.

.—.w......

W&l'1fe

A musician in our
Senior Mary New ﬁnds ex-
pression through the cello

Stone Willy '5 Pizza
is a popular entree in
the Coop. Students
and faculty purchase
around 900 pizzas a
week. and Lee’s most talented cellist.

HOLLISTER Ho VEY/
Puoro EDITOR

PAGE 11

lty

facu

BY GABRl1'-ZLLE Brsr
STAFF WRHER
ry may be a typical name,
but Mary Taylor New is far
from a typical girl. This
modest senior may be Washington

Born and bred in Richmond, Va.,
New continued a family tradition by
a tt e n d i n g
W&L after
g r a d u a t i n g
from St.
Catherine’s
School. “My
grandfather,
father and two
older brothers
came here,
but I am the
first girl!”
says Mary.

New began studying the violin at
the age of three. After four years,
New’s music teacher, an accom-
plished cellist, could no longer teach
her the violin. At the tender age of
seven, New exhausted her teacher’s
knowledge of the violin.

Instead of finding another teacher,
New decided on a new instrument, the
cello. She began studying the cello
for many reasons, the most instru-
mental being comfort.“I like the cello
better because I can sit rather than
stand,” New remarks.

Fourteen years later, New still
plays the cello, but does not consider
herself an expert. It has taken time
for her to become comfortable with
her playing expertise, especially us-
ing the classical style.

“There can be no expert in music,”
New professes modestly. “It is a
learning process and every day I learn

 

New

/-3

_- 1
6
l

\
_l\

./[K

midst:

and appreciate something new.”

The striking thing about New is
that she is not a stereotypical musi-
cian. Most other musicians ofNew’s
caliber are studying at music schools.

“They all have friends who are
musicians,” she says ofmusic school
students, “Whereas my friends are
not, and well, I am in a sorority.”

Although music is a major part of
New’s life, it is not her life. New
practices for two hours every day, not
including rehearsals and perfor-
mances, but this has not affected her
social life. Not only is she a member
of Kappa Kappa Gamma, but she is
also a member of Kathekon.

“Music is part of my daily rou-
tine,” New said. “It always has been
and always will be.”

Perhaps New’s artistic streak runs
in the family. “My mother is very

“I attend music festivals every
summer,” she says, “But although I
do not know exactly what I want to
do, I know that I do not want to be a
professional player.”

Most recently, New attended the
De Boudoin Summer Music Festival.
While there, she was tutored by a pro-
fessor from the prestigious Julliard
School of the Arts. This summer,
she realized how much she would
prefer to teach than perform profes-
sionally.

New finds it challenging and re-
warding to perform for children. “I
love teaching,” she says. “I really
want to teach music and I think that
is what I will do.”

Both at home in Richmond and
here in Lexington, she has performed
for kindergartens.

“Children come up with the most

artistic,andI brilliant
ﬁuessdl }i1n—  questions
erite t at and answer-
love of ex- - - ing them in
pression Muslc lspartofmy awaythatis
“°’“ “W daily routine. It “°‘ °“’Y
New says. correct but
“I use my always has been and understand-
music as a _ abletothem
means ofnot always‘ WI” be. is not only
only ex- challenging
pressing my- but also
self but also - Senior Mary New very fulfill-
as a way of 7 ing.”
relating At 21,
events in my New defi-

life to the music. Ifl have a sad piece,
I simply remember an occasion when
I was really sad and I express the feel-
ings I felt then in the piece.”

Although New is very modest
about her accomplishment, she has
many.

“   -  
‘Q’ .\ 

.
iviuir:

\
\‘»‘ \

ts‘
5".

rile I
ll

. I
.i

.n- -‘

H6

/: uillrl
tr HI l l
W’ lirllll '

l .
Illil.l.".l ‘ll-I
t‘.

  STORE - 463-5064
T67 S. Main Street - Corner of Preston

nitely has a long way to go, but she
has both the focus and talent to suc-
ceed.

“My ultimate goal is to get
people to appreciate music even
more — not only as music, but how
it relates to day-to-day living.”

0


l
l
l

‘.
[.9 gllil.
“|:l!.’l "
'l

I re
tlwlllw

l

 

- Domestic & Microbrewery Kegs - Many in stock!
— QUANTITY DISCOUNTS! FREE DELIVERY!

Catering and Kegs

HAPPY HOMECOMING W&L!!!

 

_ . apart because ourschedules didn’t

PAGE 12 ° OCTOBER 6. 1997

FRESHMAN JOHN
D U N CAN is the founder ofa
role-playing club. HOLLISTER
H0 VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Clubseeksplrs
who love nudity,
violence, action

ZACH HANK5 repetitive and anticlimactic (despite
' ’ wonderful graphics andasoundtrack
compiled by Trent Reznor), and in
multi-player mode it couldn’t touch
Duke Nukem 3D ’s raw violence, fast
action, and copious blood and nu-
dity. Via Mplayer, players connect
to a dedicated intemet server through
Ethernet, provided by W&Lin all the
dorms (no more ﬁghting University
Computing to play games on the net-
work). Up to 16 players can play, eight
toateam, in the vicious game of capture
the ﬂag.
An assortment of characters can
be played, each with their own unique
abilities, aptitudes, and weapons, in-

STAFF Wanna

When asked to write a story about
a new gaming group forming on cam-
pus, I was skeptical. I myself started
a gaming group my freshman year;
- we played for a few weeks then split

permit us more than intermittent play.

. Freshman “J” Duncan’s group has

a bit more to offer than mine did- spe-.

. ciﬁcally, intense network ‘computer

game play with no hindrance to the
school’s computer network.

The grouphastwoprimaryfoci: role-

playing games and multi-player on-line

computer games. The role-playing

gameson whuch they intend to focuson eluding soldiers, spies, scouts, snip-
include Shadowmn, a game inspired by ers and engineers. J’s goal is to end
thecyberpunkgenrewhich includessuch up with a group of eight players who

books as Neuromancer, and the latest
edition of the game that started it all,
Dungeons & Dragons. J emphasized
that his gaming group is not a formal
club, in the sense that it has no ofﬁcial
membership requirements, but is just
seeking students who are interested in
getting together on weekends for some
imaginative entertainment.

work as a team and challenge other
teams up and down the East coast.
J was kind enough to let me try the
game, called “Two Fortresses,” on his
roommate’scomputer. Bigmistake,J.
Six hours later, I reluctantly managed
to pry myself out of the chair and leave
his room. He had to open the door for
mebecause my handsweretoo cramped

The computer gaming group will to operate the knob.
focus on such games as Descent and J canbereachedoncampusatexten—
Command & Conquer. However, I sion 4627. As for me, I want another
think the game that should have people crack at that sniper that kept picking me

ﬂocking to their phones to call J, is
online multi-player QUAKE. In '
single-player mode it was achingly

off from across the board. That’s right
buddy, I’m oomin’ for ya. I’ve got a
grenade with your name on it.

   
 

 9 Spy on the faculty
meeting in Northern Auditorium
at 4:30 p.m. 9, Tuesday 9
UVA School of Medicine presents
admissions seminar in VMI Sci-
ence Building, room 316 at 5 p.m.
9 Volleyball
Lynchburg in the Warner Center
at 6:30 p.m. O 
day Q W.S. Merwin reads po-

ems in Northen Auditorium at 4

team faces

 

seven

p.m. 0 Eastern Virginia Medical

School presents admissions seminar in VMI Science Building, room 316
at 1 2 p.m. O  9 Opening Homecoming Assembly at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel 0 Alumni Reception in (guess where) the Alumni
House at 9 p.m. O  O HOMECOMING WEEKEND!!! (get
drunk and vomit in nice clothes) 9 Film Society presents “Everyone
Knows I Love You” in the Troubadour Theatre at 7:30 p.m. 9 Bruce
Homsby with Agents of Good Roots in the Pavilion at 9 p.m. Q S3311‘-
day 9 Women’s soccer takes the field at 1 1:30 a.m. 9 Homecoming
football game at 2 p.m. 9 Men’s soccer game at 2 :30 p.m. 6 Film Society
presents “Everyone Knows I Love You ”in the Troubadour Theatre at
7:30 p.m. Q  Lee Memorial Service in Lee Chapel at2 p.m.

Colonnade Club I

 

Awurté Mltxluree LATE-Z... I

Student Activities Board

recently announced that the
Homecoming concert will

 

feature The Bruce Homsby Band.

The Bruce Homsby
Band? Ididn’t know
that Mr. Homsby is still
alive. Maybe he isn’t.
Maybe this is the SAB’s
clever adaptation of

“Weekend at Bernie ’s.”

Regardless of my feelings on
the washed-up 1980s wannabe
rocker known as Bruce
Homsby, which I will keep to
myself, what is done is done.
With one band scheduled for
this year, we should turn our
attention to the

 

Amzx CHRISTENSEN
———j—~— MOVIE Game

I want to like George Clooney. But
I must admit that the actual movies
themselves, while often featuring good
work by Clooney, have been less than
stellar. “From Dusk Till Dawn” was
sub-par; “One Fine Day” forgettable;
“Batman and Robin” embarrassing.

That’s why I was so glad to see a
movie which is good, solid entertain-
ment and in which Clooney’s charac-
ter both is likable and kicks ass.

The Peacemaker,” starring Clooney
and Nicole Kidman, is one of those
rare actioners in which the story is
believable, the pace taut, the
storytelling lean and the acting above
average. “Executive Decision”comes
to mind as another good example.
Unlike such obvious fakery as “The
Saint” and “Air Force One,” the ad-
mittedly Hollywood-ized political
background of “The Peacemaker”

Fancy Dress concert.

I, for one, hope that we will not be
visited by another rap band. I do not
dislike rap: I dislike rap concerts.
They are as entertaining as double-
entry bookkeeping.

The rap industry’s old
standbys are getting old.
Nearly every rapper, since
Grandmaster Flash first
entered the industry in the
early 1980s, has turned to the
audience at some point
during his or her concert and
said, “Somebody yell ho!”

Who is this ho? What has
this ho done to deserve so

much attention? Doesn’t she get

tired of us yelling at her every
time the SAB schedules a Fancy

doesn’t stretch credulity to the break-
ing point.

The unique feature of “The Peace-
maker” among action ﬂicks is that it
plays remarkably like a very smart
“60 Minutes” report in which Mike
Wallace acutally has enough live foot-
age. There is literally no wasted space,
even through an extended hijacking
prologue some have labeled boring. I
found it fascinating to watch. A hi-
jacking is essentially a secret, quiet,
eminently physical crime. Mostﬁlms
would out much of the actual physical
activity to focus on the muscular con-
frontations typical of the genre.
Schwarzenegger would grunt, “Your
presence on this locomotive has be-
come superﬂuous!” and throw some-
one over the side. Mimi beder, the
former “ER” directorwho helms “The
Peacemaker,” resists this temptation,
and comes up with something inter-
esting and gripping. To see simply
the hijacking take place without a lot
of talk and bluster is a joy. It’s prob-
ably stretching things to compare this
sequence to Dziga-Viertov’s “Man
with a Camera,” but only a little. The

Dress concert?

I know that I grow tired of yelling
at her. I also get tired of watching
rappers walk around the stage in an
effort to appear energetic.

After a while, I begin to feel as
though I am watching a track meet.
A very noisy track meet. A very
noisy track meet where the runners
move slowly in small circles.

Rap concerts quickly
become tedious. I don’t
feel obliged to wave
my arm because

   
  
   
 
 
 
  
 

“I am a true
player.” I’d
rather not “give
it up” for
anyone’s
disc jockey.

Rappers’
amazing ability

to link words

which rhyme (see
also Dr. Seuss)

motivate me to
yell “make money money make
money money money.”

So who should the SAB bring to
campus this spring? That should be

same powerful kineticism of pure vi-
sual storytelling keeps the images from
being anything but boring.

And we haven’t even seen Clooney
and Kidman yet. Clooney plays Lt.
Tom Devoe, a sort of an independent
operator who specializes in undercover
work to discover and contain nuclear
weapons smuggling. Kidman is Julia
Kelly, the interim director of the White
House Nuclear Smuggling Group.
When ten warheads are stolen from a
train in Russia, and one is exploded,
Kelly and Devoe have to work to-
gether to get the remaining nine back.

I should mention that George
Clooney is very much a television
actor. His little mannerisms and facial
expressions are very limited. He al-
ways plays the same kind of character
(when he plays his character well) that

- is, a sort of a bad boy who is charming

and is always being forgiven for his
little mistakes and foibles. I don’t
mean there isn’t a lot of room within
those parameters for him to have a
great career; there certainly is. But
this may be part of the reason he hasn’t
usually burnt up the box office. We’d

up to us, shouldn’t
I am not sure
much in-
student

have

ﬂuence
input can
on the
process of

attracting a band
to campus.
Wherever the
student body can play a
role, though, it should. I
would like to thank the SAB

for the work, time and commit-
ment which they dedicate to
arranging concerts at Washington
and Lee.

Although I have not appreciated
the groups which have perfonned at
Fancy Dress recently, I appreciate the
work that the SAB put into obtaining
those bands.

My personal, subjective opinions
on music do not reﬂect my opinion
of the SAB. They deserve the same
commendation as any other hard-
working group on campus.

Ijust hope they don’t bring
back another rap band. Washington ’
and Lee has many traditions;
bringing a rap band to FD shouldn’t
be one of them.

GEORGE CLOONEY
and Nicole Kidman make
love not war in The
Peacemaker. The action
ﬂick has been held over at
The State. Catch it this
weekend. Screen times are
7:15 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
Friday, 2:10 p.m., 7:15
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Satur-
day; and 2.'10 p.m. Sunday.
M. ARo1vow1rz/
DREAMWORKS PICTURES

Clooney’s a real star
aaaof 4 stars —The pitch: “|t’|| be like,
‘Mission: Impossible’ with a plot.’’

rather have him in our living rooms
where he can charm us in person. His
likability still comes across on the big
screen.

Kidman and Clooney have a real
chemistry in the film, though it is
never the subject of the film. The last
thing I wanted was a “Speed”—Iike
“now we’re boyfriend and girlfriend
because we went through so much
together” ending.

Instead, they have some real con-
ﬂict and emotional sequences together
but focuson theirwork, as they should.
Very little is hackneyed about the plot
of this film.

Even the villain is well-portrayed
(and I won’t spoil it by saying who it
is). This is pretty rare. We don’t
sympathize with him, but we believe
him, and that’s enough.

Overall, “The Peacemaker” is a
promising debut for the new
Dreamworks SKG studio. This
Christmas will bring “Mouse Hunt”
and Steven Spielberg’s “Amistad,” and
we’ll see if they can keep dodging
convention and making money at the
same time.

5»

    
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   

A

Hollister Hoxey i

vieANvIm\.e, www www

Hezwmze M 1149 INFIZMEPY

00H YEAH! Llo mgr
995‘ 0F 99641 FUNNELINI7
»“"'* rwsavzer, I'LL
’ €’/ Ytutxl U? «owe Lira
I J) FLDDIZ‘. MET V-arm’
‘:3’ FOR THE 011! NIL 0?
\{ov\Z Lire, iéwvwtes,

   
   

   
 
 

.UFl‘éLV

 
 

Om (7 ’A- We‘.
(ix \/U 6‘.

 

 

  
 
  
 
  

MP l‘Now\,r:é, I r)oN‘T
EV6N WANT rv [LN ow
Ibw. arr ‘/ou wxve. A
9E\/92-29] ¢,¥-vise.-P

I590Vl+P<(aU‘2 '-’ V7
M¢.cAvﬁeLI7
i&E9V0N9l?7\X:?

WELL, I
eueee You
couw (M

1‘l«h3«T,D0b...

   
      
    

 
 

 

  
 

 

and Robin disk

fowl toad.

 

PAGE 3

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 4

Food critics Doug

out the skinny on

 

;...,:'vuu.,; ,;, ,_‘_—_ybURN UBRARY

WASHINGTON & LE

5 UNiVEFISlTY

LEXINGTON, VA 2.44.59

ucI141997 ’

  
  
  
  
  

Trips to
heaﬂh
center

on rise

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

STAFF WRITER

The Student Health Center has
been a busy place this year.

Alcohol-related admissions to the
inﬁrmary have been more than double
so far this year than at this time last
year. The SHC has held a total of 24
freshmen, three sophomores and one
senior overnight for observation this
year. Only ten students had been ad-
mitted to or visited the SHC by mid-
October I996.

Alcohol-related admissions,
which include an overnight stay, in-
cluded students who were suffering
from alcohol poisoning and severe in-
toxication. Visits to the SHC included
injuries resulting from impaired fac-
ulties, less severe intoxication and re-
quests for the moming-after pill.

The Blood Alcohol Concentration
of students who have gone to the SHC
has ranged from 0.125 to 0.337. The
legal limit for those under 21 is 0.02
and 0.08 for those 21 and over.

“It is a very complicated problem,”
Director of Health Services Dr. Jane
Horton said. “The environment of
W&L, the behavior of the (freshman

' I and sophornore’;'peerigro"upattptay1r”*'

part (in binge drinking).”

“Another factor is that all the fresh-
men live together and are a fairly ho-
mogenous group.

Many students already have ex-
periences with binge drinking ‘in
high school so there is already a his-
tory of it.”

There has been a noticeable drop
in the number of juniors and seniors
who have alcohol-related problems,
Horton said.

“This means they have either
moved away from the social scene or
they know their limits better,” said
Horton.

Yet Horton emphasized that more
visits to the SHC do not necessarily
mean more drinking, but that students
are more responsible about going to
the SHC or bringing their friends

Campus
thefts
conﬁnue

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
——————————-—- NEWS EDITOR

The crime spree at Washington
and Lee isn’t over.

Last week, there were two
more incidents of theft on this
campus. Thursday night, junior
Laura Goodwin’s wallet was sto-
len from her science library car-
rel. Although Goodwin spent
four hours on the phone cancel-
ing her various accounts, the thief
was able to charge $89 on one of
her credit cards on an Internet ser-
vice. No cash was stolen.

A W&L student and an assistant
science librarian were sitting near
Goodwin’s carrel and did not no-
tice anything suspicious.

Young feels that the use of the
credit card will aid authorities in the
apprehension oﬁthe thief, although
they have no le' s.yet.

In a separate incident last week,
$10 in cash was stolen from a W&L
woman’ s bag in the Doremus gym-
nasium women’s locker room.

“Everyone should be cognizant
that we have a problem here. The
honor system is a wonderful thing,
but it doesn’t apply to people who
don’t believe in it,” Young said.

BASKING IN THE GLORY 

Senior Mary New accepts her title as 1997 Homecoming Queen with her escort T.J. Griﬂin ’97. The
parachuter, who delivered the announcement, bears a striking resemblance to George Washington  in
“Saturday N ight Fever. " HOLl.lS7Y§R H0l’EY/PHOTO EDITOR

In a dazzling display of

offensive mastery, the

Generals claimed their

ﬁrst victory of the season

in front of a massive
Homecoming crowd.

PAGE 4

-tum Iﬂlti

 

  

Upcoming midterms
will be The death of
Associate Editor
Andrea Ewing.

PAGE 4

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Pcnnit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
OCTOBER 13, 1997

  

when they’ve had too much to drink.

“Everyone has experienced in-
creased sensitivity after Jack
Bowden’s death last May,” Horton
said. “The increased number of visits

may well be for different attitudes,
and advertising by the SHC.”
Horton said that she would much
rather have inebriated students
brought to the SHC than having

them put back in their rooms.
Horton and four seniors recently
attended a convention to investigate
ways to curb binge drinking and will
be researching various approaches.

BYOB drains East,Lex’s
normal alcohol profits

“Fratemities should not be looked at as bars,” IFC

BY KELLY TOTTEN

BYOB has put a dent in the kegs at East Lex.
The East Lexington Store, the convenience store that
has sold party supplies to fraternities for 21 years, is feel-

STAFF WRITER

the regulation.

ing the repercussions of the Interfraternity Council’s new

“Bring Your Own Booze” policy. Owner Jim Bowen esti-
mates that one-third of his business comes from fratemi-
ties. The new policy, however, makes it illegal for frater-
nities to use house funds to purchase alcohol.

“It’s definitely off from what it would normally be,”

Bowen said of fraternity business.

In the past, many fraternities had accounts at East Lex.
Now, accounts are only used for ice, cups and other non-
alcoholic party necessities. The fraternities’ accounts for
beer have been replaced by individuals who have collected
money on their own to pay, Bowen said.

“lt’s not helping my business,” he commented, “but
it’s not like I’m looking for a huge growth in alcohol con-

sumption.”

The BYOB policy, implemented this fall, has forced
fraternity members to come up with alternative ways to

provide beer.

An account at East Lex used to make collecting beer
money easier for Chi Psi, said President Russ Woody, but
they’ve canceled it this year. Although it never ofﬁcially
used house funds to purchase alcohol for parties, the
fratemity’s practice of “passing the hat” is now considered a
violation of the IFC policy. Brothers are responsible for
bringing their own beer and liquor, which also means they
are responsible for who drinks their beer and liquor.

Individual responsibility is one of the objectives be-

hind the policy.

President Jason Callen said.
With the increasing national focus on risk management
and fraternity responsibility, Woody was not surprised by

in SEEKEGSPAGE2

The East Lex tradition hangs in the balance after the

implementation of B Y QB. H01./.I.s'1I;k H()l'l;‘l/PH()l'() En/'roR

It

SJC stakes
own turf  

ERICA PROssER

A STAFF WRITER

he Student Judicial Commit-

tee has extended the concept

of honor. But they claim they

don’t have to step on the toes of the
Executive Committee to do so.

The rumor that the SJC has be-
come the new hearing board for
honor violations is untrue, SJC
President Mary Jo Mahoney said.
The Executive Committee is still
the final word for lying, cheating
and stealing. However, students
have come to associate honor sim-
ply with those three concepts.
Mahoney and the SJC believe that
“honorable behavior” does not
end with those things.

“It’s the same idealistic founda-
tion,” Mahoney said. “The deﬁnition
of honor can be carried past lying,
cheating, and stealing.”

Mahoney explained that the SJC’s
growth since spring 1996 has been
complicated and important and many
students are unaware of the commit-
tee and the procedure changes. Few
people know, for example, that the
SJC Blue Book was modeled after the
EC White Book.

“People were losing confidence
in the SCC,” Mahoney said.

The‘pr'o’ces's'of creating the cur-
rent SJC was poorly followed by
students, Mahoney said. Open fo-
rums held for discussion ofthe Blue
Book were usually attended by only
a few people. She said that the
changes made are important; proce-
dures in the committee have been
defined more clearly, and automatic
penalties exist now. Students need
to know about the changes before
they suffer penalties they didn’t
expect for an action.

Mahoney said that the students
have not been well-informed, and
the SJC needs to make itself more
known to the W&L population.
Therefore, the jurisdiction of the
SJC can be more easily explained
for the students by the term “hon-
orable conduct.” Acts such as van-
dalism, fighting and other “un-

gentlemanly” practices cannot be
categorized as lying, cheating or
stealing, so the SJC becomes nec-
essary. But the committee is shar-
ing power with the EC, not taking
power from it.

“The SJ C can turn cases over to the
EC and vice-versa,” Mahoney said.

Every case is evaluated for the
proper jurisdiction. The procedure for
reporting cases to the SJC is much the
same as in reporting cases to the EC;
a student can try to work out the situ-
ation on his own, but the committee
will act on what is reported.

Mahoney emphasized that the
change in the appeals process directly
affect students.

Previously, a student could ap-
peal a case to the University Board
of Appeals, which would send the
case back to the committee with a
recommendation. Now the stu-
dent may appeal to the University
Board of Appeals, and the Board’s
decision is the final word on the
matter.

The concept of “honorable con-
duct” and the SJC is nothing new. All
student governing bodies on campus
exist to discourage “ungentlemanly”
behavior. But simply using the word
“honorable” may help to remind stu-
dents that honor does not end with the
three major offenses associated with
the EC.

Mahoney made it clear that a
violation of SJC rules is not an
“honor violation,” and she said
that students should remember
that the EC still holds the power
of punishment for lying, cheating,
and stealing. But the SJC is serv-
ing a purpose in the enforcement
of Robert E. Lee’s “notion of in-
dividual responsibility.”

“We’re trying to get people to carry
themselves more honorably,”
Mahoney said.

President John Elrod praises
the efforts of the SJC. “They’ve
been trying really hard to empha-
size personal responsibility and
exercise actions that fall outside
the jurisdiction of the EC.”

Local help for battered women:

Habitat, Project Horizon
build Lexington shelter

BY DANIEL SOZOMENU
STAFF WRITER

 

Lexington is by deﬁnition a small
town.

Unfortunately, it is not without
big- city problems. Domestic vio-
lence, an enormous problem in this
country, is a real problem here, de-
spite the apparent peacefulness and
beauty ofthe Shenadoah Valley.

To help on a local level, Wash-
ington and Lee’s Habitat for Hu-
manity and Rockbridge County’s
domestic abuse organization Project
Horizon are beginning work in the
next few weeks on the first shelter
in Lexington for battered women
and their young children. Most of
the construction will take place in
April.

The shelter will have three floors
and a basement and will immedi-
ately accommodate 12 women.
Plans to expand capacity for 16
women are already in the works.

“This is the first project with
strictly students involved first-
hand,” Habitat President David
Sugerman said. “The shelter is a
way to reduce potential problems
for women who have no option but
to leave.”

The nearest shelters are in
Stanton and Roanoke, neither of
which is exactly around the corner,

tn

Sugerman said.

This newest project will incor-
porate manpower from both the
W&L and Virginia Military Insti-
tute Habitat for Humanity
programs.The construction will be
supervised by the Timber Framers
Guild.

Professor Grigg Mullin, an in-
structor ofcivil engineering at VMI,
had recruited cadets to put together
the catapult called Trebuche, which
now resides on the VMI parade
grounds. The cadets assembled the
device through the use of heavy
timbers, piquing the interest ofthe
Timber Framers Guild.

Since then, the TFG has been ac-
tive in the Lexington and Buena
Vista areas, especially in the erect-
ing of houses.

“The women will be able to be
independent as well as live and talk
with other women who endured the
same things,” Sugerman said.

The W&L Executive Committee
allocated $7500 for the affair, while
plans to rafﬂe off President EIrod’s
parking space to raise more funds
are in the works. In addition, the
W&L and VMI Student Activities
Boards are working in conjunction

to arrange a benefit concert, with
its revenue defraying the operating
costs ofthe shelter.

  

PAGE 2

APO
builds
steps

ANDREA EWING
‘—“'—“—“—* ASSOGATE EDITOR

behind the library; there is a
ew addition to the hill. Last
Saturday morning, 14 members of
Alpha Phi Omega, Washington and
Lee’s service fraternity, helped to
build eight steps down the slope
leading to Woods Creek, making it
easier for Woods Creek residents
to get to the library.

The group began around 9 a.m.
with tools provided by Buildings
and Grounds.

APO started the project with
only eight steps and will add seven
more soon.

The area itself will be the object
of an ongoing project with a hand-
rail to be added later as well as some
plants and a bench.

Junior Patrick McCormack
first introduced the idea at a plan-
ning retreat a year and a half a
ago. The project was given final
approval at last year’s spring
planning retreat. McCormack is
working with Scott Beebe of
Buildings and Grounds through-
out the evolution of the area.

I t’s a little easier to climb the hill

  I1€WS

GET THE SKINNY ON GRADUATE SCHOOLS

There will be a presentation Tuesday, Oct. 14, in Northern Auditorium about graduate
school . The discussion will focus on what to expect in making applications for graduated
study. The presentation will be followed by a question and answer session with Cecile
West-Settle, associate dean of the college, and Ken Ruscio, associated dean of the Will-
iams School of Commerce.

“The whole projectwill make it easier good to invest in our school while we HAMMING IT JAZZ UP   AT THE 
to go from Woods Creek to the library,” are here and try to make it better. up  Two Beta
McCormack said. “When the new stu- With the number of people who Theta Pi ‘s goof _ , . _ _
dent center is built there will be much Showed up to he1p,the group was able oﬂduring the . Assistant. MUSIC Professor Terry Vosbem and four_W&L students will present a free
more traffic’ not only from woods Creek to get done What it had planned to Homecoming jazz concert in the GHQ today from 8:30-10 p.m. The jazz ensemble includes’ saxaphone,
but the whole 5 ch 0 01.” complete_ football game trumpet, piano, drumns and contrabass instruments. There will be free soft drinks and hot
The main idea behind the project ac_ “There were some limitations’ but against beverages served. The event is sponsored by the Sonoklect Festival of Twentieth-Century
cording to McCormack is to “make it a the heart was there and we did as much Davidson, The Mus”
much better environment where students as we could with the limitations,” Washington
can go and study.” McCormack said. and Lee
None of the supplies used to build the These past Saturday mornings Generals won SCIENCE CENTER DEDICATION
Stegsugglrfegusrﬁﬁsgg ‘:;11:hr::r(())::n::'S 36:33 tsgdirrilgfoil/I; (t):eg(;lrI;ga EEJSICS imk The new science center will be officially dedicated Sat. Oct. 18, at noon followed by a
Came from the Southeast Railroad Com_ the library HOVEY/PHOTO buffet luncheon on Stemmons Plaza. There will be an open house with informal tours and
. laboratory demonstrations from 9 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. The Robert Lee Telford Lecture will
pany in Salem. All the labor came from The group wants to get other orga- 1;1)[T()R

nizations and Students involved not be delivered by Dr. Stephen Jay Gould from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel.

only in this project but also helping

other areas of the campus.
McCormack says that any group or

individual who wants to help in this

students who wanted to help improve
their campus.

One of the four main areas of service
for APO is service to the university, and
McCormack feels this project embodies
just this principle.

-Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik

or any project can contact him by
phone at 462-5245 or by e-mail at 3-2.
pmcc0rma@wIu.edu.

But he says “improving campus

at a party, you are literally taking money out of
needs to be a campus-wide effort. It is

someone’s wallet,” Callen commented. “Per-
sonally, I don’t feel like it’s my responsibility

 

ke Wl;l1_L Y93 , , , CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 as afratemity member to pay for everyone else’s
ta me ome.  f t beer}:
1000’ ’ 851319"! 1   “There was no way of getting around it. It’s Others feel that their Friday and Saturday
takes two orphan _ _ , all about liability,” Woody said. “BYOB was nights are losing the sense of escapism provided
blk’"e”’5 "}’:e The headhne 1n last Week 3 inevitable.’ by worry-free bartending and an endless sup-
" 9551778 0 t 3 ' - - Woody claims that the policy is not a big 1 ofbeer,
. » edition incorrectl stated th . . . . . . P Y
ammals 0’ the y ’  deal, it just simply takes the responsibility off “Some brothers feel that parties are more
Robert E. Lee purposg of J Duncan 3 gafnlng from the fraternity. BYOB will also raise about risk management than having fun,” said
Epistzcal Church 1 b H k .   1 .th party-goers’ awareness, believes Callen. John Dziok, treasurer of Sigma Phi Epsilon.
last Sunday. C u - 6 See 3 1n 1V1 ua S W1 People should not just be aware about how “But the penalty is too huge to even think about
K"”""’” ’V"""”’“/ creativity and imagination for mud‘ theya"? drinking, but Whose alcohol going against (the policy)?’
R"N°'"’M PH" _ they are drinking, he S81d- Sig Ep never used house funds to purchase
h1S club. “People need to stop expecting beer when alcohol but, unlike Chi Psi, the fraternity has
' i I - theyrgo to “these parties. When you ask for beer kept its account at East Lex- to buy ice,

No credit, No job, No parent-singer, N0 security deposit!

no credit "‘ bad credit * no income?

Guaranteed Credit cards with Credit Limits

Up To $10,000 Within Days!

'.'ou [Ian ﬂualifg To Receive
Tum |]f the [Host Illidelg Used
Credit Cards In The lllorld Today!

Want VISA 6- MasterCard Credit Cards?

N

 

ORDER FORM

YES!

CRA. PO BOX

I want Credit Cards immediately.

GUARANTEED APPROVAL
1 6662, ATLANTA, GA 30321




  Tired of Being Turned Down?

GUARANTEED $10,000 IN CREDIT

I
I

I

I

I

I

I

 .
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

II

OCTOBER 13, 1997 E

 

 

 

PAGE 3

W&life

 

OCTOBER 13, 1997

.Woods Creek Grocery celebrates anniversary

BY LIZDEITER

w&un3 EDITOR

It’s often compared to the Whistle Stop Cafe, but al-
though the Woods Creek Grocery may evoke images from
“Fried Green Tomatoes,” this little ﬁnd isn’t the ﬁgment
of a Hollywood imagination.

Oct. 27 will mark the one-year anniversary of the re-
I markable renaissance of Woods Creek Grocery. In the year
that has passed since Mellie Strickler bought and renovated
the ramshackle convenience store on Lime Kiln Road has
evolved into a warm and inviting cafe.

. After 5 years as a restauranteur in Farmville, Va., Strickler
t‘ had decided to take some time off. While in Lexingtonvisiting a
friend, she looked in the paper for a house to buy.

“I actually had no intention of buying a business,”
Strickler said. “I was going to spend a year skiing and pad-

st dling. But then I saw a picture of this place and fell in love
with it. It wasn’t even a good picture!”

When Strickler bought the grocery, it had been closed
for the first time in its 75 year history. She redesigned the
store, brightening it up and adding a kitchen. At ﬁrst,

¢« Strickler concentrated on stocking groceries and prepared only
baked goods, breakfast, soup and take-out sandwiches.

Soon after Strickler opened, she was visited by Pennie
Griffin, an old friend from their bartending days together in
Washington, D.C. Strickler quickly convinced Griﬂin to quit

 

moved here the following Wednesday,” laughed Griﬂin.

Woods Creek Grocery has that kind of enchanting ef-
fect on people. The small wooden building nestled next to
the Chessie Trail is charming and unpretentious, with a porch
out back and seating inside. The grocery is stocked with
alcohol and foodstuﬁs. The restaurant developed as its repu-
tation grew. Customers became friends and donated chairs
and tables, painted a mural and spread the word.

“I’ve never seen anything like this,” Grifﬁn said of
the grocery. “People are always saying, ‘When are you
going to expand?’ but if we did, we’d change the charac-
ter of the place. lt’s nice being small.”

While most of the customers are townspeople, stu-
dents are catching on, too. Strickler has hired a third per-
son to adjust to growing demand, but is happy with the
small size of the grocery.

Soup, salads and sandwiches are standard fare, but
Strickler and Griffin vary the dinner menu. Their recipes
come from the combined 42 years of restaurant experi-
ence between them, as well as cooking magazines. Din-
ner prices range from $4.25 to $8. Excellent choices in-
clude the Cajun grilled chicken breast, crabcakes and any
of the tempting desserts.

After a year in Lexington, the two friends mean to
stay here long into the future.

“I plan on staying here forever. I’ve never been as

‘ . _ . V _ _ WOODS CREEK GROCERY is located just beyond the Lenfest Center, close enough to campus to grab lunch
her job in DC. and move to Lexington to help run the store. happy as I am now,” said Strickler. be twee ,1 Classes. HOLUSTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDHOR
“I came down the ﬁrst Friday in November, and I “lt’s a great town,” added Griffin. 4
topics as career de- In January 1998, Schroer-Lamont
velopment, balance will travel to Sweden for six months

4 D e a n A n n e S C h  e r_ L a  O  I between work and with her husband, who has received a

I family, sexual ha- Fulbright Fellowship to teach and re-

. I I rassment and search there. She is taking this op-

P I O n e e r | n g e n d e r I S S U e S gender stereotyp- portunity to enrich her studies again.
ing. Participants Through her extensive research,

4 received instruction in Schroer-Lamont has focused onanarea

schools, and the language careers ﬁeld put themselves in challenging situa- tion composed of re- how to locate sources for gen- which has traditionally been ignored.
BY GINGER PHILUPS STAFF WRITER dried up. During this time, Schroer- tions both intellectually and physi- searchers, professors der research and how to construct Schroer-Lamont also serves as the
Lamont began to seriously consider cally to see how resilient they are.” and professionals V A a quality gender case study. advisor for the Women’s Forum and
4 ean Anne Schroer-Lamont counseling as a profession; she later In 1985 Schroer-Lamont began a from over fifty  p A I In an article written for the Women inLeadersliip, two student or-
has proven herself to be an received her doctorate in counseling 10-year study on women here at countries. There she “ served as a WACRA newsletter, Schroer-Lamont ganizations forwomenhere oncampus.
asset to the W&L community and higher education administration at W&L. She followed these women moderator for researchers and speak- and her col- C C These groups pro-
in her role as director of counseling the University of Northern Colorado. through their undergraduate years and ers. She also met two other women at leagues write, mote interaction be-
and as Associate Dean. Schroer-Lamont came to W&L in 1985 into their graduate and professional the conference who were active in the “Gender cases ] have had the tween female stu-

,( Schroer-Lamont was raised in when the school became coeducational. lives. This study was continued when ﬁeld of gender study. present an area of beneﬁt of he] in dents andfemalefac-
northwestern Pennsylvania and at- Schroer-Lamont is a pioneer in Schroer-Lamont was a Scholar in Following the conference, Schroer- complexitywhich p g u1tyanddealwithis-
tended undergraduate school at Deﬁ- another area as well: gender issues. Residence at the Center For Women’s Lamont and these two colleagues de- many students are wom en becom 6 sues faoedby women
ance College in Ohio, where she pio- She began to research women’sissues, Research at the University of Oslo veloped a presentation to teach re- not prepared to Str0nger_ inschoolandiritheir

_ neered the junior-year study abroad including key decisions that women during the winter of searchers and educators how to write address in their personal hves.

‘~~ program. Schroer-Lamont took ad- must make in their 1996. She compared 110 case studies on gender issues. Ac- future work- “I have had the
vantage of the program that she had personal and profes- Norwegian women with ' cording to Schroer-Lamont, case place.” Schroer- - Anne Schroer-Lamont benefit of helping
hel ed to establish; she studied sional lives. Of spe- the W&L women and studies are invaluable tools used at Lamont’s partici- women become
abrgadyherself at the University of cial interest to her. advanced cross cultural universities, law and medical schools pation at the con- . 7 , stronger,” Schroer-

‘ Strasbourg in.Frar__ice.. 1 . . . . are gifted women. ..researchinthis ﬁeld. and other educational institutions. ferenoewassoenjoyed    .‘,'1€;QQe gfthe most:

After getting a master’s degree in and how they deal During the summer of Amazingly, the entire presentation asked to return in 1998 for the confer- rewarding job and I feel blessed to
French and Spanish, Schroer-Lamont with work, family, 1997, Schroer-Lamont was arranged through e-mail and was ence to be held in Marseille, France. have this position.”
began teaching high school French. and society. attended the World As- presented at this year’s WACRA con-
Even then she was utilizing her coun- “Personal strength sociation for Case ference in Edinburgh, Scotland. In

.i seling skills, as students would often and courage are very method Research and this way Schroer-Lamont has helped

seek her advice. important qualities for Application conference to bring gender issues onto the inter-
In the 1970s, foreign language re- women to access,” she ‘ ~ 5 in Warsaw, Poland. national scene.
quirements were removed from says. “Women should 5Gh|'0ef-Lamont WACRA is anorganiza- These gender issues include such
it
I , .
Gourmet meals with a college student s budget.
I I I
«Feathered friends in your kitchen
BY DOUGLAS BROWN 8‘ preparation of that versatile white An important initial element is and be sure to use anti-bacterial soap
ROBIN SEATON meat, chicken. We eat chicken fre- properly handling raw chicken. To on your hands before handling other
‘ STAFF Wm?” quently, because Doug prefers meat protect your kitchen and yourself items in the kitchen. If you place the s
‘ The notoriously limited budgets of and starches to vegetables, and be- from bacteria, place chicken in aplas- meat on any surfaces, cleaning them
college students affect even yours cause there are so many unique ways tic bag before youbring it home. The immediately with anti-bacterial
truly. So we have decided to dedi- to prepare it. bags found in the vegetable section cleanser is necessary. Utensils used
cate this week’s ar- at the grocery store work well. If withthe chickenmustbe cleanedthor- _ T V ' 1 ;: ~:  V _  ‘s  Vi _ g, . ' ,  A ' a
ti ticle to the budget- a . you plan to wait several days before oughly before using them on other  ff ‘Asmey  "’¢1‘~?”'¥f’ "7. , K’S§ the G"4s' "R’tM0."NT PICTURES

    

conscious home

 

I
Cut boneless chicken breasts into
several small strips, the more the bet- ' 9 9
ter. Fry them in olive oil until they  ‘  s
. start to turn golden brown. Wash the 0 Q o
h’ chicken off your knife and cut small  
strips of your favorite raw vegetables; pjaee who1e boneless skinless
We 036“ Ch°°5e gr°_'3“ PePPer5> mush‘ breasts in a casserole dish. Liberally
r90rn5> 1°t5 Of °n19n_a rnayba Snrne douse chicken with Worcestershire and
‘( pineapple - the possibilities are limit- soy sauces’ salt, pepper and onion pow-
1655- Continue Cookrng this rnixture, der. Spoon contents of small container
adding WhateVer 5P1Ce5 You Prefer? of frozen concentrate orange juice onto
garlic, soy sauce, lots of salt, a honey- chicken. Cover with foil and allow to
mustard Saucaa Italian Salad dressing: marinate for several hours in refrigera-
it etc. When the vegetables are soft and

Doug’: Stir-Fry:

pliable, serve your creation over rice
or noodles and enjoy.

V0

        
 

  

x rest‘: From
f Nit I-.1:-vi

J

tor, and then bake, still covered, at 3 50
degrees until golden on top. Wild rice
makes a tasty accent for this dish.

"3 0 1

cooking it, freezing the chicken
is also advisable.

Wash raw

chicken thor-

oughly before

you begin to

cook it,

      
  

dishes. We may sound overly-cau-
tious, but we know several people
around Lexington who have made
themselves and others very sick
through their carelessness.

We have several suggested meth-
ods for preparing chicken. We hope
you have gain a sense of the numer-
ous possibilities available when cook-
ing chicken. Experimenting with it

. rarely goes wrong. lt’s

healthy, tasty and

friendly on the col-

lege budget.

   

  

Southern Fried Chicken:

Fill a large Ziploc bag with two cups of ﬂour, salt, pepper, onion
powder and any other desired seasonings. Drop each chicken piece indi-
vidually into the bag; seal and shake to coat chicken. Cook chicken in a
skillet of hot vegetable or olive oil until crispy. We suggest mashed
potatoes with gravy, corn and sweet tea to complete this meal.

 

  

 

1 . ‘  Theﬂpreview for “Kiss the

, . Girls" looked so promising..Scary,

3 = seductive —— something for every-

9 _rref;We wanted our ﬁrst cinematic

critique to be positive; however,
"the movie sadly let us down.

Kiss the Girls stars Morgan
Freeman, Judd and Cary Elwes.
Ashley Judd and Elwes are easy on
the eyes and Morgan Freeman is a
talented actor. He plays the role
‘of smart cop better than anyone
(is. “Seven”). The actors did well
with what they had. But they did
not have much.

The plot, while intriguing, was
shallow in its execution. A serial
killer is victimizing beautiful tal-
ented women in Durham, N.C. He
collects the women (not girls) and
stores them away in a dungeon in
the woods. He feeds them peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches, drugs
them, and presurriably rapes them
(although we are fortunately spared
any scenes of sexual violence).

Judd, a young doctor and ama-
teur kick-boxer, uses her superb
butt-kicking skills to escape from
the dungeon. Freeman, who is

  

  
 
    

 

    

 

(3-o irls’.doesn’t
xpectations

. some kind of cop psychologist,
comes to question Judd and to-
gether they set out after the killer.
Freeman, coincidentally, is the
uncle of one of the missing girls
and thus has a strong emotional tie
to the case.

There are few twists and turns
in the plot. There is actually more
than one killer, but we are never
told how the killers came to know
each other or what their childhoods
were like or any other juicy infor-
mation that might help us to un-
derstand their motives.

We heard a rumor that the book
on which this movie is based is
pretty good. Perhaps it would an-
swer our questions. Maybe one of
us will actually get a chance to read
it some day, but not this term.

While we don’t have too many
good things to say about this
movie. we still suggest that you
check it out. It was not horrible‘, it
just wasn’t as good as we’d ex-
pected. We would place “Kiss the
Girls” somewhere in the tliree-out-
of-five stars range. It is a moder-
ately entertaining way to spend a
couple hours —— particularly con-
sidering the other options available
in Metro Lex.

 

PAGE 4

 

RESULTS

Football (1-4)
Sat.: A W&L"
Davidson

Volleyball (10-8)

32
22

 

Tues.: Lynchburg 0
W&L 3
Fri./ W&L 2
Sat.: Sewanee 3
W&L 2
Westminister 3
W&L 1
Centre 3
W&L 1
Greensboro 3
Women’s Soccer (10-0)
Thu.: W&L 3
Roanoke 2
Sat.: Goucher 0
W&L 2
Men’s Soccer (7-2)
Wed.: W&L 6
Lynchburg 2
Sat.: H-Sydney 3
‘ W&L 0
Men’s X-Country
1st place in Virginia State
Championships
Women’s X-Country
3rd place in Virginia State
Championships
AH EAD
Football
Sat.: at Hampden-Sydney
Volleyball

Thurs.: at Guilford

Men’s Soccer
Wed.: at Bridgewater
Fri.: at Savannah A&D

Women’s Soccer
Wed.: Home at 4:00 vs.
Lynchburg
Sat.: Home at 12:00 vs.
College of ND
Men’s"'&’W6’iii‘en’s‘ ‘
X-Country
Sat: Allentown Invitational

Before a capacity Homecoming
crowd at Wilson Field,
quarterback Christian Batchellor
led the Generals to victory

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
STAFF WRHER

F:[Vhe Washington & Lee football
team celebrated homecoming
in grand style as it captured its
first victory in a 32-22 win over
Davidson College. Sophomore quar-
terback Christian Batchellor tied a
school record as he threw 4 touch-
down passes including a 47-yard
strike to freshman wide receiver Wes
Hardy in the third quarter. It was
surely a career day for Batchellor, who
ﬁnished the game 18-28 for 288 yards,
no interceptions and four touchdowns.
Tailback Seth Mckinley also had a big
game as he picked up 94 yards on 28
carries and ﬁnished the game with 146
total yards.

It wasn’t only the offense that got
the job done for the Generals, the de-
fense and special teams also played
extremely well. The defense, led by
Jack Boyd and Omar Moneim, con-
sistently stopped the Davidson offense
in key third down situations. The de-
fense wrapped up the game when de-
fensive back Ryan Fletemeyer recov-
ered a Davidson fumble inside the
Generals ﬁve-yard line late in the 4th
quarter. The kicking game was ex-
cellent for the Generals as Matt
Holbrook had a great day. Holbrook
booted a 35-yard ﬁeld goal in the ﬁrst
half but more importantly he pinned
the Wildcats inside the five-yard line
twice in the second half, including a
49-yard punt that tolled out of bounds
at the Davidson two-yard line.

Things did not look good for the
Generals early as they fell behind 14-
3 early on in the game. With two min-
utes left in the 1st quarter, the Wild-
cats took the lead 7-0 after Eric

' ‘Ferguson ran 10-yards straight up the

middle for a touchdown. The Gener-
als offense looked like it was going to
have yet another long day as it failed

FRESHMAN AMANDA MERMO (#5 ely dodgesjeeble attempt by a Goucherplayer to illegally bring

to pick up a single ﬁrst down in the
opening quarter.

However, the Generals put to-
gether a four minute drive early in the
second quarter which ended in a 35-
yard ﬁeld goal from Matt Holbrook
to cut the lead to 7-3. Two minutes
later, the Wildcats struck back as quar-
terback Tommy Dugan ran 54 yards
to the Generals two-yard line and then
ran it in from there for a touchdown.
The option worked well against the
Generals in the ﬁrst half as Dugan
picked up over 100 yards in the open-
ing half.

In what would be the turning point
of the game, the Generals scored 15
points in the ﬁnal two minutes of the
ﬁrst half and took a 18-14 lead into
the locker room. With two minutes
left, Christian Batchellor connected
with freshman Scott Humphreys in the
corner of the endzone for a touchdown
and then Batchellor hit Scott Moses
for a successful two point conversion
making the score 14-1 1. The Gener-
als defense then forced the Wildcats
to go three and out and the Generals
got the ball back with under one
minute remaining. After two long
passes across the middle to
Humpheys, Batchellor connected with
l.T. Malatesta for a 13-yard touch-
down and the Generals took the lead
for good.

Batchellor took advantage of ex-
cellent pass protection from his offen-
sive line and he was able to sit back
in the pocket and utilize his strong and
accurate arm. The Generals went up
by l 1 after Batchellor threw a 47-yard
touchdown pass to Wes Hardy off a
play action fake. However, the Wild-
cats came roaring back as Tommy
Dugan hit a wide-open Eric Ferguson
for a 27-yard touchdown and follow-
ing a successful two-point conversion
the score was 25-22.

her down. The Generals proceeded to silence the Gophers 2-0 extending their season record to 6-0.

H OLLISTER H 0 VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Women’s soccer extends  
winning streak to 10

BY FRANCES GROBERG
———:—-j—-—— STAFF WRnER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team is just unbeatable. This
past week, they extended their win-
ning streak to ten, the longest in school
history, with victories over Goucher
and Roanoke. The team is now 10-0
for the season.

On Saturday, while most of the
W&L population was busy tailgat-
ing, the Generals were in the midst
of their fourth shutout of the sea-
son against Goucher. The game was
scoreless throughout the first half,
but the women managed to pull out
the game.

Less than four minutes into the
second half, freshman Amanda
McDermott scored her second goal
of the season, unassisted, to put the

team up 1-0. Then, with 3:20 left
on the clock, junior captain Karin
Treese scored her 15th goal of the
season off a through ball from se-
nior Erica Reineke.

The Generals’ success in the game
came from their midﬁeld domination,
which was so effective that the W&L
goalies, Stephanie McKnight and
Lauren Harris, did not have to make a
save. The Generals outshot their op-
ponents 17 to four and won seven cor-
ner kicks to Goucher’s three.

On Thursday against Roanoke.
Treese scored her eighth ganie-win-
ning goal of the season to preserve
the women soccer teams unbeaten
record. The junior captain has
scored all but one of the game-win-
ners this season.

During regulation time. it didn’t

always seem like the women would
have trouble with Roanoke. Junior
Nicole J olmson scored the ﬁrst goal
ofthe game and the only goal ofthe
first half on a cross from Reineke.
Midway through the second half,
freshman Shana Levine scored on a
pass from junior Elizabeth Richey
to increase the margin to 2-0 for
the Generals.

Roanoke would not back down,
however, and would get two goals
late in the second halfto force the
game into overtime. With 12 min-
utes left in regulation time. ten
minutes after Levine’s goal,
Roanoke”s Cozy Joseph headed a
corner kick into the goal.

Despite the decreased margin. it

{CD See SOOCER page 5

sports

Generals trounc

-

OCTOBER 13, 1997

  
 
  
     
  
  
   
    
  
     

SENIOR DEFENSIVE TACKLE Omarlltoneim (#99) crushes the Davidson ball-carrier; exemplifj/ing the

Generals superior defensive performance in their ﬁrst victory of the season against the Wildcats.

H OLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

However, in the end it would be
the Generals day. Early in the 4th
quarter Batchellor tied the school
record after he threw his 4th touch-
down of the day, this one a two-yard
strike to Scott Moses. The Generals
smothering defense and Matt
Holbrook’s clutch punting helped
hold Davidson scoreless in the ﬁnal
quarter and F letenmeyer’s fumble re-
covery sealed the deal.

The homecoming victory improves
the Generals record to 1-4 and drops
Davidson to 2-3. Washington & Lee
now heads back out on the road for
two straight road games. Next week
they are at Hampden-Sydney and the
following week they are at Sewanee.

  Game Stats
W&L vs. Davidson

W&L Q
1 st downs 17 21
Rushes/yds. 35/174 38/39
Passing yds. 288 185

Off. plays/yds 66/377 66/359

Time ofPos. 32:38 27:22

THE SPORTS IUNKIE
BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

NHL Dream Team Ruins
Spirit of Olympics

s the National Hockey
League enters its 81st sea
son, there will be a new
twist to the nine-month long
hockey season. This February,
the NHL will have a two-and-a-
half week break so the best profes-
sional hockey players in the world
can participate in the Winter'Olym-

: -pro  in Nogono, Japan; This
TThas:.;drawn many comparisons to

basketball’s “ Dream Team” of the
1992 and 1996 Summer Olympic

Games in which the United States
Olympic basketball team was made
up of a cast of superstars from the
NBA. However, this is not the case
in hockey as the NHL has a much
more international ﬂavor. Not only
will star players from the NHL par-
ticipate for the United States, but
players from Canada, Russia and
Sweden will also play for their re-
spective countries, each of them
with a good chance to win the gold.
1 ﬁnd myself strongly opposed

to the use of professional athletes
in the Olympics. Like basketball, I
think this is yet another eifort to
promote a league and make more

proﬁts. That is what sports is all
about in this era: making money and
lots of it. The NHL sees this as an
opportunity to make so more money
off the game of hockey by using the
Olympics as a personal method of
advertisement to help sell the game
across the globe. The NHL has al-
ready’ begun this campaign as last
week the Anaheim Mighty Ducks

and the Vancouver Canucks faced ‘
off in a regular season game in

Tokyo.

The use of professional athletes
does away with the use of amateur
athletes that created hockey legends
such as the 1980 United States
hockey teams “Miracle on Ice." A
group of unknown amateurs would
bring together the entire country in
shouts of,  USA! USA! USA!”

Now the professional “Dream
Teams” are ruining the actual
dreams of amateur athletes who
grew up with visions of represent-
ing their country in the prestigious
Olympic Games.

Personally, I found the basketball

®seejUNKii3page5

GW Semester in Washington

An lliitlcmrarltiatc Prorrram in Political Maii.1<rcincnt
D D a

Spring, Suinincr, and Fall Sessions

Make Connections to
Launch Your Career

Now Accepting Applications
On A Rolling Admissions Basis

Apply NOW!

Session Deadlines:

Spring - October 31, 1997
Summer - March 3l, i998
Fall —lune l, l998

Ther e
at n
nive ity

WASHINGION UL

GW is an equal opportunity/ollirmalive oclion inslilulion

Tile Graduate

 

School of
Political

anagement

f

For More Information, And To Receive An Application, Contact:

(800) 367-4776, (202) 994-6000 hltp://www.gwu.edu‘/~gspm

Now Accepting Applications On A Rolling Admissions Basis.
Apply NOW! Spring Session Deadline: October 3l, I997

   
 

   
  
    
    
    
      
    
     
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
    
   
   

     
 
   

 

 

7“ OCTOBER 15, 1997

Jock Shorts -

- Men’s soccer collects homecoming loss -
- Volleyball gets swept at Maryville tourny -
‘  - X--country score high in states -

Men’s Soccer

g With a large Homecoming
crowd looking on, the men’s soc-
cer team on Saturday dropped a
huge game to ODAC rival
Hampton-Sydney. Hampden-
Sydney, as yet undefeated in
league play, looked hungry for a
win on Washington and Lee turf.

. The all-male school scored two

‘ goals within the ﬁrst ﬁfteen and

a half minutes of play, and the
shaken Generals would never
recover. Though they created
several opportunities to score,

ﬂ the Generals couldn’t capitalize

and were shut out 3-0 in what

could prove a tell-tale game for
their season.

The men’s soccer team came
into the game riding on a ﬁve-
game winning streak and look-
ing for a big Homecoming vic-
tory against the first place
Sydney. A win on Saturday
would have boosted the team’s
overall season record to 8-1 and
established their status as a ma-
jor contender this year. How-
ever, Hampden-Sydney’s early
goals and physical play proved
a bit too much for the Generals
to handle. The Sydney players
attacked constantly and aggres-
sively, and managed to rack up
26 fouls despite the fact that the
referees called a very loose
game. At times things got a
little out of hand, with the con-
test looking more like a cheap
street-fight than a ﬂuid soccer
game. However, the teams
managed to avoid a full scale-
brawl despite a few close calls
in the second half.

Saturday’s loss does not bode
well for the men’s soccer team
who came into the season with
very high expectations. Although
playing well, the Generals have
been unable to rise to the chal-

650

A age

I there
its

your
. ]

'I3UToe61°<5‘”b

“ 0Frhe Hf

lenge of big-time competitors
Hampden-Sydney and Virginia
Wesleyan. Although Saturday’s
game is deﬁnitely not the last word
on their season, the Generals will need
to ﬁnd the will to rise to the occasion
if they wish to be number one.

Volleyball

Perhaps head coach Terri
Dadio’s team should stop schedul-
ing tournaments and instead stick to
conference games. The Generals
struggled once again in an out-of-
town tournament last week, ﬁnish-
ing last in the Emory Tournament,
following a seventh place ﬁnish in
the Maryville tournament several
weeks ago. On the up side, they
continued their impressive streak of
consecutive ODAC regular season
victories against Lynchburg on
Tuesday. It now stands at 23
straight games. The Generals are
currently 10-8 overall, 6-0 in con-
ference play.

Against Lynchburg, who entered
the game with a 14-5 record, 2-2
ODAC, the Generals put away a
stingy defense to roll 15-6, 15-11,
15-11. In the first game, the teams
traded points and serves until the
score reached 7-5 in favor of the
Generals. After two serves from
sophomore Nancy Reinhart and four
from senior Hilary Martin, however,
W&L leaped to a 13-5 advantage;
the run featured kills from Reinhart,
senior Holly Thomsen, and junior
Megan Snodgrass. After trading
sideouts, sophomore Megan Macy
served twice, one of which was an ace,
to end the game.

Games two and three were hard-
fought affairs. Lynchburg was able
to keep both close due to a strong de-
fensive effort, especially in terms of
blocking potential W&L kills. In
game two, Lynchburg pulled to a 10-
6 advantage before Reinhart, helped
by kills from Thomsen, and Martin,

 

_Guitors, Amps, RA.s,

  

ROCKBRIDGE

MUSIC
Q

served ﬁve times, including an ace,
to make it 11-10. Freshman Pam
Saulsbury closed the game with
three service points, the last of
which was another ace. Overall, the
Generals had nine aces for the
match. The ﬁnal game was much
of the same, as the Generals fought
their way to a tenuous 10-7 lead.
However, consecutive service
points from senior Ali Beard,
Snodgrass and freshman Melissa
Williams made it 14-7. After sur-
rendering four straight, the Gener-
als iced the match with a 15-11 vic-
tory. Overall, Reinhart had 14 kills,
Martin 12 kills and 11 digs, and
Saulsbury 23 assists.

Little went right for the Gener-
als at Emory. In the ﬁrst match,
they fell to Sewanee in a heartbreak-
ing marathon match 15-6, 10-15, 5-
15, 15-8, 10-15 despite 23 kills and
22 digs from Reinhart, 19 kills and
20 digs from Thomsen and 34 as-
sists from Beard. They followed
that loss with a rematch against
Westminster, a team they faced in
the Maryville tournament. The re-
sult was the same, however, as re-
gionally ranked #8 Westminster
cruised to a 15-2, 15-7, 15-12 vic-
tory. Martin led the team with seven
kills. In the third game, the Gener-
als faced Centre. Despite 11 kills
from Reinhart, nine kills from
Snodgrass and 27 assists from
Beard, W&Llost6-15, 17-15, 3-15,
4-15. In the last game, Greensboro
defeated the Generals for seventh
place 15-4; 15-5, 11-15, 15-6.

The Generals play only once this
week, at Guilford on Thursday.

X-Country

Senior Jason Callen, with a time
of 26: 18, and junior Darrick Alford,
with a time of 26:24, ﬁnished 1-2
to lead the men’ 5 cross country
team to the Virginia Division II-III
State Championship at the
Rockingham County Fairgrounds
on Saturday. The Generals ﬁnished
with a score of 31 to distance them-
selves from runner-up Roanoke by
25 points. Other top ﬁnishers were
Alex Taylor who finished eighth

& Accessories.

DIANA MIIDSEN-SCHUFIELD
205 North Main Street 6
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Phone (540) 453-5455

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BOOKING AVAIIABIE:
|| 1010!, DUO], TRIOL BAND!

sports

  

Open: 8 a.m.—6 p.m.
Monday-Saturday

Lexington Laundry Service
and

ALTERATIONS

22 N. Main Street, Lexington

Teresa Dattolo, Owner
464-4001

/D/eare 66/ffé

 

Frau/by a/ra/ftaaé/(I29
ﬂex//9 /a////after 43/net? a/Ia///13-es’

J. 5%/y fczta/so/ag //"0//( 9 am - 7 /Mr

  //%ei/21f/‘,0/rb‘ of tie
W /1/Ewe/6.?/if €e/(L‘e/‘/

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

overall with a time of 26:55, Greg
Ruthig who ﬁnished ninth with a
time of 26:58, and Will Olson who
ﬁnished llth coming in at 27:25.
Next week, the men will head
Gettysburg to compete in the
Gettysburg Invitational.

The women’s cross country team
finished in third place, just two
points behind eventual winner
Lynchburg, at the Virginia Division
II-Ill State Championship meet at
the Rockingham County Fair-
grounds on Saturday. Junior Natalia
Dorofeeva once again led the squad
with a second place ﬁnish overall
and a time of 20:05. Other top ﬁn-
ishers for the Generals were Carson
Flowers (sixth overall, 20:21),
Elizabeth Grenfell (12th, 21:18),
Wendy Case(l9th, 21 :39), and Jana
Heisler (20th, 21:41). Next week,
the women will travel to Gettysburg
to compete at the Gettysburg Invi-
tational.

Q9 SOCCER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

looked like W&L was going to
come out with a win, but with just
1:18 left on the clock, another
Roanoke player, Jenn Sember, rock-
eted a shot into goal from way out-
side the penalty area.

This time it was the Generals
who would not give up. (Freshman
Lindsay Williams had a great
chance off of a cross Reineke with
just ten seconds left in the game, but

it hit off the crossbar, forcing the

game to go into overtime.

1:08 into overtime, Treese was
fouled outside the penalty box. Her
low shot around the left side of the
wall beat Roanoke goalie Kate
Enright to the near post, giving the
Generals the overtime win.

This week, the Generals will try
once again to defend their unbeaten
record on Wednesday against
Lynchburg at 4 p.m. and Saturday
against Notre Dame of Maryland at
12 p.m. Both games will be on the
Liberty Hall Fields and promise to be
entertaining.

® JUNKIE

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

dream teams not nearly as exciting as
they were built up to be. What is the
enjoyment of watching a team that
you know is going to win go out and
destroy someone? I saw the decision
of the United States to put together
the basketball dream teams not only
as economically selﬁsh, but also as
egotistical and ethnocentric. We
couldn’t stand losing to anybody at a
game that we invented, so we had to
go gather up our greatest players, tell
our amateurs to take a hike and prove
that the United States doesn’t take
crap from anyone.

This doesn’t apply as much to
hockey, as I mentioned earlier, it isn’t
only the United States that’s stacking
their team. However, hockey does
surpass basketball in one aspect. The
N1-IL actually has to interrupt its sea-
son to take part in the Olympics, while
the Olympics conveniently falls in the
off-season for basketball.

But despite my objections to the

NHL’s decision, there still are some.

 

LEE{::§HI TRAVEL

PAGE 5

interesting aspects to having NHL
players in the Olympics. Players who
are teammates during the regular sea-
son will now ﬁnd themselves on op-
posite sides of ice when they play for
their respective countries. Or, on the
opposite side, players who ﬁnd them-
selves against each other in big NHL
rivalries such as the Red Wings and
Avalanche, will ﬁnd themselves on
the same team. It certainly makes for
interesting happenings in the locker
room.

Professional sports will continue
to move in on the Olympic market and
you will most likely see more and
more dream teams in coming Olym-
pic games. The amateurs will con-
tinueto have their dreams and goals
shattered, and the Olympics will con-
tinue to become an economically
driven event. However, many fans
will enjoy seeing their favorite NHL
starts going head-to-head in the big-
gest sporting event in the world. As
for me, I’d much rather cheer for a
bunch of young nobodies whose
dreams of representing America
would have come true in Japan.

 

   
 
  
   
   
 
   
       
 

,5  ‘:".’:..‘

*DAYTONA DUAL
Sit-Down Racing

  

‘A’ GOLDEN TE 9'1
3-DCOLF

 

GAME ROOM

The Lexington Area’s
Best Equipped Arcade

      
  
     
    

ELVIRA. BUST-A-MOVE. AND MUCH MORE

BRING A FRIEND.
Come on by and have fun

Rt. 11 North
Provided by Top Notch Amusement

 

> PLAZA

  

*MﬂXlH(IH FORCE.
E POLICE TRGIHER
GUN COIN

*MEGA-TOUCH X-L

TOUCH SCREEN

  

   

J

MO '

BAGELS ° CROISSANTS ° MUFFINS
CINNAMON ROLLS ° SCONES &
WHAT FOLKS SAY IS THE BEST
COFFEE THIS SIDE OF SEATTLE

9 W. WASHINGTON ST. ° 464-6586 - WEEKEDAYS 7:30-5:30 ° SATURDAY 8:00-5:00 ° SUNDAY 9:00-4:00

 
   

 

IIXINIITIIN

Wemo"-.Wm6°e

    

lICl'l1l:lil_\'

Spring Term,
Semester, or
Full year

GAME ROOM UNIVERSITY CENTER

S\\ cdcn

at

7:00 p.m.

in

l;Ii\\.|n

STUDY ABROAD

General Information Meeting

on

Tuesday, October 21  

Limited
Financial Aid
Available

I)cnm.irL

mIn,In.j lrrnun )

 

 

 

'-'*'-'-'-.'-'-'-*'-'-'-.'-'-'- . '-'-'-'-'-'-'-'i
.\ .H.Ec’H.1'$/ 
‘ MAY COMPANY L

/F.=E'.=E.PT°.~\ i

@ TuEsdAy, OCTobER 14 ®

    UNivERsiTy CENTER j
RM. 114 _

®   7pI\/I @J :

  Tuesdaynigkt wag 
never so mucjn $6   

gﬁ

 

.,,,.,W,,.ﬂ..._.,”_.W.H_Wm~

 

 

A

1

I

V.

1

R

ion
rial

PAGE 7 OCT. 13, 1997

Binge Drinking:
it’s time to stop

Binge drinking — it’s almost a buzz word
these days. The kind of drinking defined as
more than five drinks on one or more occa-
sions in two weeks.

Alcohol-related admissions to the infir-
mary have more than doubled this year.
That's right, 28 students have spent the night
recovering in the student health center. Last
year, after homecoming, only 10 students
had been admitted.

So far this school-year, at Louisiana State
University, and then at Massachusetes Insti-
tute of Technology students died from binge
drinking.

It could never happen here. We’ve heard it
said a thousand times, this school is too
small, BYOB is working, students here are
educated about the dangers of binge drinking
and yet 

Every weekend students drink beyond
their limits, beyond the buzz. The amount of
alchol a person consumes shouldn’t give him
or her bragging rights, but at this school, it is
a common Monday-moming conversation.

It’s okay to have a few drinks, enough to
losen inhibitions, dance wildly and ﬂirt
fantastically.

But you can always stop. That’s right, turn
down the last beer, start to sober up as the
night wears on.

The benefits are amazing, you’ll wake up
with a clear head the next day. No hangover,
no reason to stay in bed past noon.

Recalling how you ended up in bed will be
much easier. Recalling who you ended up in
bed with will be much easier. You’ll even be
able to relate stories about your friends.

Most of all,you won’t take that one drink
that puts you over the edge. The one last
drink that puts you in a coma. The kind of
coma that looks a lot like sleep.

A sleep you never wake up from.

“Q
UOTEOFTHEWEEK

You might want to turn
off my alarm clock, I’m
not coming horne.

—— A considerate roommate

99
Elite iiitng-tum lﬂlit

Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs
Andrea Ewing

Executive Editors

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor Kathryn Mayumik

w&life Editors Llz Detter
Tarah Grant
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
Asst. Copy Editor Holly Estes
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

Asst. Advertising Editor

Rebecca Cuny

Matthew Craig
' Douglas Brown

Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office. room 208 of the University Center. by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters. columns. and "My Views"
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

WLUR

almost

arealcoﬂege
radio station

I was surprised to hear a song by
Less Than lake on WLUR Monday
morning. l was even more surprised
when a punk cover of the “Cheers”
theme followed it, and lwas shocked
when a ska cover followed that.

Brick Row
gavii Balsley ’99

.,.-.53,

  

I nearly cried, l was so happy.

i have been a fan of college radio
sincelwasafreshmaninhighschool.
I enjoy listening to different styles
of music, and college radio has al-
ways been the place to find some-
thing different. WRCT (Carnegie
Mellon University) and WPTS (Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh), whose
playlists ranged from classical to
punk to ska to Crazy Sid’s Scream-
ing Accordion Death Metal, pro-
vided me with a badly needed alter-
native to the dreary world of classic
rock and pop radio.

So I was excited when I found
that WLUR isstarting to sound more
like what i had heard at home. Like
WRCT and WPTS, WLUR seems
to be incorporating more variety
into its playlist. Their Fall term
broadcast schedule includes a few
ska shows, and l have been told that
their required playlist includes a
number of modern, aggressive
bands.

The injection of ska and punk
intoWLUR’splaylist does notplease
me as much as the transition to play-

ing lesser-known styles of music by
lesser-known bands.

It is important for college radio sta-
tions to play this music because they
are the few who can get away with it.
Other stations depend on advertising
revenue and must play their most popu-
lar songs in order to attract a wide
audience. Even commercial stations
which promote themselves as being
different or “alternative” are just pop
stations in disguise. Only independent
stations can offer a true alternative
from mainstream radio.

College radio stations should take
advantage of their independence, at
least for the sake of variety, if not to
promote talent, creativity and artistry.
Independent stations provide opportu-
nity: they offer their listeners an oppor-
tunity to hear bands they have never
heard before, and they give lesser-
known groups the opportunity to be
heard. it is important forthem to fulﬁll
this role.

But few students in Lexington can
tune into classic rock and mainstream
stations. So WLUR should play those
styles as well. But they should not
sacrifice all of a progressive playlist for
songs which students may better rec-
ognize. As acollege station, they should
continue to provide an alternative.

What does this mean for WLUR? I
hope that the station will continue to
incorporate less mainstream music into
its playlist. I have enjoyed the move to
different kinds of music, and I hope
that the trend will continue.

With any luck, l’ll get to cry every
Monday morning.

  
 

‘ mbmﬂk
some To LOVE

DENNIS THE DRUNK

     

THOSE says! Tnzru.
NEVER 9: AN ADULT

 

[my math skills aren’t C

 
 
  

Women of your dreams
may only be an hour away

Well, Homecoming Weekend has come and
gone, and, amazingly, the sky didn’t fall and the
earth didn’t stop spinning on its axis. 1 mean,
these things should have happened. After all, a
girl from a road school was nominated to be our

 

Eric Swensen ’98

Homecoming Queen.

So let’s clear up a few inaccuracies printed in
last week’s hysterical (and I don’t mean funny)
Phi editorial. First of all, there are not an
adequate number of women on the Washington
and Lee campus. Last time I checked, men make
up 59 percent of the W&L student body. Now,

Then there’s the term “road cheese.” It
always makes me laugh to hear women who
would be mortally offended by such terms as
“honey,” “babe” or “chick” refer to other
women as “road cheese.” it’s always nice to
see such solidarity among the women of the
world.

Do intelligent women intimidate us?
No. Amazingly, some intelligent women
actually reside at places besides W&L. If
you took the time to actually talk to some
road school women, you might find that
out. Of course, I realize it’s much easier
and safer to cling to stereotypes, like most
intelligent women do.

Road school women have always been
and will continue to be an integral part of
the W&Lcommunity. Without them, plenty

very‘ goodfbut I think i
that means that even if
every W&L guy wanted
to date a W&L woman,
there aren’t enough of
them to go around.
Then, of course,
there’sthetime—honored

I, for one, have been
rejected by plenty of
road school women
over the last three
years.

of fine young gentlemen,
based on sheer numbers,
would go dateless. if road
school women are a part of
the community, why can’t
we nominate them to be
Homecoming Queen?
Besides, it’s up to the

stereotype that every

road school girl wants to hook up. Not so. I, for
one, have been rejected by plenty of road school
women over the last three years. Besides, if you
think that only road school women want to hook
up, you’re wrong. Haven’t you heard of “the
walk of shame?” Everyone either knows some-
one who’s done it or done it themselves. Early
risers on Saturday and Sunday are usually wit-
ness to a host of W&L students stumbling out of
fraternity houses, apartments or dorm rooms
clad in wrinkled clothes and frazzled hair, smell-
ing like the previous night’s party. l’ve got news
for you. They weren’t sleeping on the couch.

9 ’ nominating groups to de-
cide who they’ll nomi-
nate. Most fraternities tend to nominate a

steady girlfriend of a senior in the house,
road school or not.

I have nothing against W&L women. I
took one to Homecoming. Personally, I
think if women here don’t like the avail-
able pool of W&L men, they can always
road trip themselves. l’ve heard Pi Beta
Phi is having a mixer with Hampden—
Sydney. The person of your dreams may
not be anywhere on this campus, but he or
she could be an hour’s drive away. Go out
and find them. And stop complaining.

Old South not something to be glorified

lam a white female. Members of my father’s family
fought for the Confederacy. l have lived the majority of
my life in the South, but I certainly don’t have “Old
Fashioned Southern Pride.”

Don’t get me wrong. l love the South. I think we’re
living in some ofthe most beautiful parts ofthis country.
I’m excited that places such as Atlanta, Charlotte,
Columbia, Houston, and Dallas are thriving cities, add-

My View
Rebecca Curry ’O0

 

ing to the economy and strength ofthis country. lfl live
in the South for my entire life, I wouldn’t cry.

Yet, as i look around W&L, gazing upon all the
Confederate flags and watching Civil War reenact-
ments, I begin to wonder why anyone would glorify
such a sad part of the South’s history.

The Old South had no really advanced technology or
industry; it survived on its cotton and tobacco. Most
people lived meager existences; the Rhet Butlers and

Scarlet O’Haras only constituted a small percentage ofthe
South’s population. During this time, wealthy people
owned human beings and treated them like livestock
simply because they were black. Women were considered
a step above property, as long as they were white and had
family money. To preserve this glorious time, the South
seceeded from the Union, splitting this country in pieces
for four years. Southern ﬁghters had passion, but no
resources to fulfill their desires. Thank God.

As a Southerner, l have no desire to see the old South
“rise again,” and it kills me to see people of our genera-
tion, who are from good families and are well educated,
wanting to celebrate such a dismal past. it would be the
equivalent of having students expressing German pride,
saying, “sieg heil,” waving swastika flags, and reenacting
the goosestep.

Which brings me to another point: most people would
be greatly offended ifa Nazi ﬂagwas hanging in someone’s
room. Yet, if one person on this campus has a problem
with the Confederate flag, he or she becomes an outcast.
No matter how people may cherish that battle flag, it will
always be a symbol of racism in this country, and I know

that many students here, both white and black, are deeply
distressed to constantly see it.

Even more important though, glorifying that flag,
parading in Confederate uniforms and longing for the old
South,willalways representasplitinthis nation. Hadthe
South won, the home that every American knows would
not exist. Our unity keeps this country strong, and it
offends me when anyone would desire to break that bond.

I can imagine that, if Robert E. Lee were alive today,
he would be greatly distressed to see W&L students
glorifying the old South. it broke his heart to see the
United States divided in two, but he could not fight
against his own home and family. Yet, when the war

' ended, Lee devoted the rest of his life to establishing a

school which would educate Southern men, helping to
rebuild a war-torn country and insuring that they would
learn from the past and never relive it.

To those who find happiness in glorifying the old
South, ask yourself why. What are you really saying?
Who are you offending? And how would Robert E. Lee,
the essence of our beloved Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, respond? it is time to move on.

the  Mn.

Illi "?(e§telrs°to° thVe"‘ed?.to?:

Letters to the editor can be e—mailed to phi@w|u.edu, deposited outside room 208 in the
University Center or left ir our mailbox located across from the Dean of Fun in the University Center. Letters should be limited to five hundred
words. Letters may be edited prior to publication. (We’re editors. We can't help ourselves.) Anonymous letters will be published upon
approval of the Executive Editors. if you have any questions, please feel free to contact us at 462-4060.

 

As students head toward midterms they hope for one thing 

 

  
 

       
 

   

 

 

  0 t ‘
l: ‘ ee::.,*.   
V ‘ANDREA Ev;/ING ihéllli Idam, l nlotonlly left the prolfizlssor a notei but I alzo
jmA_s;soaA7-15 EDITOR ca e to exp ain t e situation. e reaction receive g
PAGE 8 OCTOBER 13, 1997 ext week is mldtormo during the phone call was basically‘ «Andrea, Chili.” TIPS 
B l h h lo d l - h h ll h Rather than listening to my paper be torn to shreds, he
, N ihlcliooghvbsy (elixir C:/le(l_l::arvtl:(tl ptroefoassotrseo Stress calmly reassured me that everything was okay.  
 Q lectures are going I have no problem with ll suggestfthe tiolllolyvinlg sillresé
" y y _ Th l re ievers: a ree- u ar in e 0-
on all day; Domestic Violence as eifairgeffende :1: lilsﬁgﬁltienrg op’ oi naked yoga oh the Coioh_ mg 1
a Social Movement: A Historical to actually take them. I eeemiwim 3”‘ ”l:‘de'l What Couhld i"°relrel‘”““g TN
   o Moo voodoo
wenicomeso e ~, ,
9 9 7:30 p.m. a series oflectures actual exam, whatever I g exeéetlhsese f t 1, (10115 Ifﬁemblmg 30Ur if
- « - - or sources 0 s ress re levers ,.
entitled 011151 Vl0l€nC€ and D5‘ just spent like a mlnlon W ' hut 8 Bee mi ht be ames of in the tail on 5-
hours learning seems to . . g g P _
stroction in Northen Auditorium disappear. I can go into a l ' e the Professor a”.d "mal bummg of Z) Deca itate all your
- textb k lth kl o~ ball P
9 Tuesday 0 noon hang we knowing every word b t Oho Sid b hm dadge rise ll stuﬂéd anirnals '
in a reading, but when l a S S 0” e an e O” O a I " ,
out with the W&L Employees‘ :1(§)[r)‘l:)r/ntglrtril tr)r;2rit[e(i;itzillirll gseem Hm ioa El“ lEh+ :§‘;‘rj;Il‘:SSS1‘:/‘VT:/Tllé Eeﬁezejtiﬁorigﬁéers 3 Male I-iiuai Saci-i_ 1;
T Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Accordin ' so...  Or, 10 in_ . ~ .
gto the Surgeon or E” :: oi iii 3' 3 ﬁoes to Cyrus
. - - "'"“°*°' I guess the way to solve the ‘
 Lunch‘ Room 113’ University Sfeﬁiigligaigleenggflgiifaaggn ""'°"——"H4———-—°‘--~—31bW'l' problem is to add another I2 hours lvlcfbrrnick.
Center . You will go the Fe” is one of the major signs W' M Neil }FheVer}hdaiy(ir!Ne1l’d0 Someltahinlel 4) Far Out and shied h
Choral Concert at 8 p.m. in Lenfest  O at 4 P-m- eigiggelrﬁsetreee eeueed by ~f1v.dlgadl Mu law Coleirg iieeiunalignivlagleeogilhagaizrti if €VeI.y third page of l‘
the women's soocer team plays Lynchburg (go watch them kick butt) 6 To Combat this  JWJMJT U try and get more down time. _
. . bl lb l~ Just keep screaming to YOU-V RU-3S131'1 text‘
 0 Reading Days start (these are not actually for reading, PEG 13”}: 9 “We “list ;_°__n1;g;A_:_-3-, yourself. ll; l GET THROUGH k
. s ou ave a man a o '".'.-:-..-:m.’:.'.'-.':"' ' boo
so get out of town) 9 Ocxning Soon 9 Karaoke in GHQ 8- 12 nap time for all student? w THIS WEEK, 1 WILL E91 BE 1' l,
p.m. Friday 9 10:30 a.m. Saturday "Evolution" seminar in Lee Chapel 0 and Professors fmm 1'2 STRESSED I L BE CALM’ 5) Chrnb to the top
p.m., like the ones we had I WILL NOT RAMBLE ABOUT of \xéiShin Han
Dedication of the Science Center 12:30 p.m. Saturday (it finally gets a in kihderganeo MY PROBLEMS. l MIGHT BE gton
name) . garui-day highr go jam at Fiii with their D__i_ Q You know you need a break when your professors TAKEN To THE ROCKBRIDGE and ‘play?’ sniper
MENTAL HEALTH CLINIC, BUT I WILL SUR-
tell you to cool down. (True story.) Wednesday I turned V“/Em SEREMTY Nowlll 
in a paper five minutes late, and being the perfectionist  
A Wiggg EEFMZIE ll12MEoz2Mi!\fé- FIZIDM kl léitr l ﬁlé ' l (Alexi uoﬁlé i7A‘7T ;
t- we PM/T‘ niiia‘ M‘l were. 9 AL?-eAv”l
. . Trrizowixl U? 
eemezvieee i/M o
NAME, 99¢/tI?ED
I rte NEEDED  D ,
W6 A LEN: 0Ui9ii>E
Wiueou wkwee, mo »
Nvw rliv; rite “i$l\léi/E?
IN Wt rooui/we ' 9
C/»A?~. l‘M ET‘0l\l
0” X ’ l‘ M v" 1
W"’filEIi’-/
7
I
PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING l

We’re looking for people who

  look at this glass and say: OVER ONE MILLION .
“There’s gotta be other OF THE BEST

glasses of water.”   MINDS IN AMERICA

HAVE ALREADY "

CHOSEN THE BEST .

R RETIREMENT SYSTEM.

 

‘I
TIAA'  .
hen it eemes to plamm_lg_a eemfert offers an impressive range of ways to help you e
eblle future’ ever 1'8 mime“ of create a comfortable and secure tomorrow.
Amenea 5 best aed enghteet eeem 0“ From the guarantees of TIAA’s top-rated l
TI/'\A'CREF‘ Vlvlth $190 bllllen m assets’ Traditional Annuity** to the additional growth ‘‘
we re the world 5 largest rememem eem' opportunities ofour variable investment ac- ’«
. , .
paI_1y’thenat'en 5 leader 1” eustemer . counts, you'll find the ﬂexibility and diversity
satisfaction, and the overwhelming choice you need to help you moot your long_term , e
W d I bl f A d C ltl ff C nt ff P f l l Ed pfpjeople in education, research and related goals. And tho)/.re all backed by some oftho
l e nee peop e capa e o n ersen onsu ingo ers ‘e e or lro essionla ’ u'cal- ie s. most knowledgeable investment managers in ~
going beyond ha|f—full or half- you the chance to work in a . tion in St. Charles, Illinois, is Just The reason? For nearly 80 years, the mdust
empty thinking. People who see variety of projects-with clients in one measure of our commit- TiAA_CREF has imr d d . t iii em W‘ < _
subleties. Who are quite frankly a wide range of industries. ment. We train you for a career— _ _ '0 uee 1n e g i T0 learn m0f€ about tl1€ W0Tld S
bored by easy answers and off- We are the leader in helping not just a job. solutlons to A_me“Ca s lonf-Warm Plalmmg premier retirement Organization, speak to one of
the)-shelf sollutions. t H orgréltnizlaiﬁioris lahpplybinformation talilﬁgygggséoelrson to/e’fre weds. Wegioneeredtplonable bene(fj'iis.l d our expert Consultants at l 800 84247-/6 (8 1
eopew o are cons an y ec noo o eir usmess . e in o emvente t evaria eannuity an ie pe _ .
challenging their own thinking advantage. Every hour of every person with an unquenchable popularize the Very Concept Ofstock a.m. 1 l p.m. ET). Or better still, speak to one
and are thirsty for new ideas and business day, we implement a desire for challenge and . . f t. I . I of Your °0lleagues- Fmd Out Why when It
knowledge. solution to help one of our more professional growth? 'nVe5t'"t‘3’r Odr re ‘]r_e]':eA"t(:l’RaI‘:l3'“E>‘ _ comes to planning for tomorrow, great minds
You'll have a degree from a than 5,000 clients worldwide. If so, come talk to us. And find 0 3)’: - ‘ ‘ S expense think aljke_
top school. Getting a job won't What makes that possible is out more about a career with /‘ll
really be an issue. The question the quality of our people. And the Andersen Consulting.
is: which job? Which industry? quality of our training. We're Visit us on the Internet at www_tiaa-cref_0rg
You don't want to get locked known for both. l l
into one area and then discover Because business and A T1 .
three to five years from now that technology are everchanging, we  CREF Ensuring the future 3
you don't like it. By then you've see training as a continuing C forthose who Sha o it_.<m
invested too much, process. And our $123-million  p
if.";ljﬁ"lliiifﬂlf‘3ﬁ|"ji':i:|;:""l\‘l“::f"“ﬂ:f"l""“"’ *Based on a survey conducted in 1995 by an independent organization in \\hich 96% of respondents expressed overall satisfaction
‘  ‘  ' with TIAA-CREF.
- - - ' ° - **TlAA is one of only a handful of companies that currently hold the highest marks from the nation's leadino independent rationg
Please loln us for our lnforrnatugn Sesslonl/receptlon on agencies for stablity. sound investments. clcaiins-paying ability. and overall financial strength: A++ (Superiorle /\.M. Best Co.: AAA. e
OCtOb€I'  from  "  In  University Center! Duff & Phelps: Aaa_ Moody's Investors Service: AAA. Standard and l’oor's. TlAA's guarantees are backed by its claims—paying
. . . k 1 N b 3 d ability. These ratings of TIAA as an insurance company do not apply to CREF. CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF
Flrst round lntervlews ta e P ace on Campus on Oven‘ er r - Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. For more complete information. including charges and expenses. call I 800 842-2733.

extension 550‘). for 21 prospcctiis Rciid the prospcciiis C1lIL‘lllll_\ bctorc you iiivcst or send lll0liL‘\.

 

T

"V

LIJ
E
.4
05
3

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 5

The Wal-Mart Garden
Center transforms into
a haunted house for

children of all ages for

a price that isn’t smry.

PAGE 3

 
 
 
 
 

Dorm counselors
reprimanded

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
+-—-?---— NEWS EDITOR
Three dorm counselors were rep-
rimanded by Dean of the Freshman
Program Dennis G. Manning last
week for not enforcing the University
alcohol policy in the dorms as strictly
as he had hoped. .
_On the night of Friday, Oct. 17,
three dorm counselors and a large
group of freshmen were socializing
in a Gilliam second ﬂoor/infir1nary-
side room.

A freshman girl was drinking a
beer when a fourth dorm counselor
walked into the crowded and noisy
room. The dorm counselor gave the
freshman the penalty for drinking
in the dorms and reported the other
three dorm counselors in the room
to Manning.

The three dorm counselors told
Manning that they were not con-
suming alcohol at the time and were
not aware that there was alcohol in
the room. '

“It was a really crowded room and
they were on the other side of it from
where the freshman girl was drinking
the beer,” said Chaz Frank ’99, head
dorm counselor.

Since they were not drinking with
the freshmen in the dorms and since
they were unaware that alcohol was
being consumed, the dorm counselors

Swiping for safety?

BY HEATHER MCDONALD
-——-——-—- STAFF WRITER

“Excuse me, can you let me in? I
forgot my card.”

This is not an altogether uncom-
mon phrase at W&L. But how do you
know that person is a student and even
has a card in the ﬁrst place?

Such is the dilemma concerning
University cards, better known as
“swipe cards.” As on-campus thefts
skyrocketed this year, many are won-
dering whether or not the swipe cards
are doing their job.

“This year has eaten us up,” W&L
Chief of Security Michael Young said
about the thefts that have occurred this
year. The system has cut back on
thefts overall, although this year is an
exception, Young said.

“The thefts have been mostly from
residence halls and the library,” Lex-
ington Police Chief Bruce Beard said
there have been at least 12 on-cam-
pus thefts this year.

“I can’t explain the increase,”
Beard said. “I hope we’re able to ap-
prehend the person or people who are
responsible for these thefts.” I

Dean of the Freshman Program
Dennis G. Manning had a different
perspective on the thefts.

‘‘I would hardly call [the thefts] a

have been put on a probationary pe-
riod instead of suffering stricter pen-
alties, Frank said.

The probation entails a review of
their position on the dorm counselor
staff by Manning at the end of the term.

“I was not pleased,” Manning said.
“I don’t expect the dorms to be a po-
lice state, but I felt that they should
have been more vigilant about enforc-
ing the alcohol policy.”

“I thinklthat alcohol offenses in the
dorm have existed since alcohol and
dorms have existed,” Manning said.

Manning thinks that the dorm
counselors are doing a good job over-
all of enforcing the alcohol policy and
hopes that they aren’t getting soft.

Dorm counselors sign a contract
specifying that they will enforce the
University’s policy on alcohol in
the dorms.

“I think we have an effective al-
cohol policy in the dorms,” Man-
ning said.

The first offense for an alcohol
infraction is six hours of work in the
Dining Hall and a $50 fine. The
second offense is another six hours
in the D-hall, a $100 ﬁne, referral
to an alcohol education program,
referral to Dean Manning and noti-
ﬁcation to parents. A third alcohol
offense means expulsion from Uni-
versity Housing.

trend,” Manning said. “But you can
lock your door and practice good
sound personal security without be-
traying the Honor System. We live
in a town of 7-8,000 people and more
hi the surrounding county, who are not
a part of the Honor System.”

He added that there is no way to
connect the this year’s thefts to the use
of swipe cards.

The swipe card system was first

installed in the freshman dorms in the
fall of 1995. The year before, there
were approximately 30 thefts in the
dorms, according to Young. After
swipe cards were installed, the num-
ber of thefts in the dorms dropped to
about 3, said Young.

Gaines Residence Hall and Woods
Creek Apartments had the swipe card
system installed last year, and the
number of thefts in the dormitories
was about the same.

“One (of the perpetrators) in
Woods Creek was in the building as a
guest of someone else,” said Young
about one of the thefts two years ago.
“That’s something we can’t control.
It’s up to you if you let a thief stay
with you.”

This fall, the old Delt House was

QEDSEESWIPEPAGE2

 

SPORTS

PAGE 5

Water polo wins third place
in the Mid—Atlantic
Championships in true Varsity
fashion, and women’s soccer
bounces back from first loss.

 

he Tiling-tum {ﬂirt

X-Files Correspondent
Mayur: ‘k knows wha it takes
t be a die—hard_ an.

Lambda Chi Alphas have turned
their fraternity house’s main ﬂoor
and basement into a haunted house
every Halloween for as long as the
brothers can remember.

“It requires a lot of preparation,”
Jeff Mitchell ’99 said. “The whole
house gets together that afternoon
and puts things up.”

DOING ‘I’HE“l\l’/lONSl‘ER MASH 

Each room of the house has its own
theme, and the brothers who work in
the room dress up to match the theme.

Lambda Chi will probably spend
about $75 on candy, make-up and a few
new props for the house, Mitchell said.
The Lexington Police Department usu-
ally donates $50 to the project.

“The haunted house has the double

effect of doing something fun for the
kids and giving all the proceeds to the
United Way,” Scott Kees ’98 said.

The Lambda_Chi haunted house
usually raises more than $200 for
the United Way. It runs from 7:30
p.m. to 9 p.m on Oct. 30. Admis-
sion is around $1.

@ By Hillary Coombs 1

Giving up the ghost:

Rumors of W&L spooks abound

BY KATHIE SOROKA

part of campus.

Washington and Lee folklore, it is probably be-

F ail any midterms this past week? According to
cause you walked between the two center columns

in front of Graham-Lees dormitory.

This legend is just one piece of the ever-evolving local
mythology and ghost stories which surround the W&L

campus and the Lexington area.

Stories of Robert E. Lee and his family occasionally

ﬂoat around campus.

' One of the most eerie stories is that Lee still visits the
Payne Hall 21 classroom in which he was inaugurated.

Professor Sanders, University Historian, heard of a

spectral sighting in Lee Chapel. This time, it was not Lee

himself, but his nephew who was spotted with a woman

on the chapel’s stage.

Sanders doubts Robert E. Lee is actually haunting any _

Educating through the tap

BY COURTNEY MILLER
——%———— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

It was free beer, Beam and cokes
and screwdrivers for the over-21
participants at Washington and
Lee’s controlled drinking experi-
ment last Wednesday.

Sponsored by Peer Counselors and
Lifestyle Information For Everyone,
the evening was designed to educate
students about tolerance.

Zach Lee, senior and LIFE
member, was pleased with the
evening’s turnout.

“You can always hope for more,
but we got people to participate and
there was a good size audience sitting
around hanging out and listening to
music,” Lee said.

This is the second year Dr. Jane
Horton has been involved in the ex-
periment. She introduced several
changes, including serving hard alco-

hol in addition to beer, differentiat-
ing between men and women and in-
viting Catholic Campus Ministry
Chaplain Burr Datz’s band to enter-
tain the students. ’

Seniors Kelly Dyer and John
Osborne enjoyed the evening of free
drinks.

“To be honest, I’m here because I
wanted to know how much I could
drink,” Osborne said.

After two cups of bourbon and
Coke in an hour, Dyer had the low-
est blood alcohol concentration of
the participants.

“I know I have a pretty high toler-
ance,” he said.

Three Lexington policemen were
on hand to administer breathalyser
tests, which determine a person’s
Blood Alcohol Concentration, or a

CD SEE BEER PAGE 2

Senior Sunda Wells takes a
breathalyzer test during the
Controlled Drinking Experiment.
WILL H.4RL>11/R1N(;—im/ PHI

 

STAFF WRITER “If anyone passed over to the other side, it was Lee,”

he said.

The most famous Lee legend deals with Traveller, Lee’s
trusted horse. The current garage to Lee House was once
Traveller’s barn, and the doors were always left open.
After both Lee and Traveler passed away, the doors were
closed, but not for long. Legend has it that Traveller was
heard bucking and making a ruckus that night. The doors
have never been closed since.

Professor Brian Richardson recalls a recent story of a
Pennsylvanian student returning to campus after vacation.

“Something freaked him out so bad, he jumped in his
car and drove back to Pennsylvania,” Richardson said. “He
stayed there until his roommates came back to school.”

Lexington is full of ghost stories outside ofW&L, as well.

{Q9 sag GHOSTS PAGE 2

  

Kathryn

PAGE 10

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
OCTOBER 27, 1997

Study
reveals
faculty
salaries

QB Elrod calls the
Chronicle of Higher
Education’s report of
faculty income
“unseemly.”

BY WILL HARDIE
——"—-i*—— VIsITINo EDITOR

A report naming President John
Elrod as the third highest-paid private
higher institution president in Vir-
ginia has touched some raw nerves
on campus.

The paper also divulged the sala-
ries of the top five university officials,
all Law professors.

Elrod called the report “unseemly,”
and Director of Personnel Bob Fox
branded it “a Violation of confidence
and a violation of privacy.”

The study in this week’s
Chronicle of Higher Education is
based on data from the federal tax
returns of 477 private colleges and
universities nationwide.

President Elrod received a total of
$177,500 including benefits in the
year 1995-96. He refused to comment
on the figures.

“I find it unseemly having salaries
flaunted in print, and as unseemly for
me to talk about my own salary,” he
said.

Elrod made no objection when simi-
lar figures were published last year.

Fox objects to the publication of
employees’ salaries.

“Talking about the salaries of in-
dividuals is a violation of confidence
and a violation of privacy,” he said.

Other than Elrod, the top five paid
W&L employees are all law profes-
sors. Barry Sullivan, Dean of the Law
School, received $199,079 including

beneﬁts; professors Bezanson, Kirgis,
Rendleman and Groot earned between
$150,000 and $180,000 in 1995-96.

“If you want a law school with
competitive professors you have to
pay competitive salaries,” Professor
Doug Randleman said. “A success-
ful lawyer in a similar position
would be getting several hundred
thousand dollars.”

For the last decade, state law has
required private institutions to submit
the salaries of their ﬁve most highly
paid employees, to review the tax
breaks available.

Public schools are subject to the
Freedom of Information Act and so

 SEE SALARY PAGE 2

   
   

 ,.    _ g V  EDITOR
2  ‘ Arearesrdent  Kessler beg’an’servinfgi70 days
1 in jail’ last~~Eriday,, ifii‘p,axt_for1’th¢ .*hett ‘of 3.3 cassettes I
“and nine CD’s ﬁjomsenior, Chris Baldwin’s carFebru- V
, 5', Kessler,   by the name‘ ‘fDavic1;’}:i-eceived ,
‘ 30iday§ foriithe‘thefts,,30I'for—a trespassing charge and
10 for an assault and battery charge. He was originally
charged with felony grand larceny, since the origi-
nal value Baldwin gave the police was $315. How-
ever, the ‘charged was changed to a misdemeanor
before the trial when the courtdeterrninedthe value
to be less than $200. Both the trespassing and as-,
sault and battery. charge were alsooriginally! felo-
nies, but were dropped down to misdemeanors. They
were unrelated to thefts. g 1 I V 5
Kessler was arrested after trying to sell the items to
Wayne Raynal, owner of Night Owl Music, who had

items. ‘

» night.”

e   for theft
   I Istudent’s car

  tipped off by Baldwin with a list of the stolen

. Almost 30 of the cassettes and four of the CDs were
rare and valuable Dave Matthews Band bootlegs.

“At ﬁrstgl thought I had misplaced them,” Baldwin
said, “but then I realized they must have been stolen.” .
. Baldwin's car showed no sign of forced entry, ac-
cording to police reports. It was parked in front of the

Baker-Davis-Gillam quad when it was broken into.
“I did think this could happen in Lexington,”

Baldwin said, ‘fFor- that reason, I usually lock my car

when I park oﬁ' campus. I just didn’t do so on that

g . All of the items‘ were returned to Baldwin aﬁer the
trial, except for two CD5 which never surfaced.

Before the trial, Kessler told the Phi that he was
leaving Lexington and going out west to visit friends
after the trial. Kessler quit his employment at Evans
Dining Hall after his arrest in early March.

 

   

 

PAGE 2

 SALARY  
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

must release all salaries. Randleman argues that the
release of only‘the top ﬁve ﬁgures for private institu-
tions is misleading.

‘‘It would be more palatable if this was universal,”
he said. “That is, selective release of such ﬁgures lacks
context.”

A handful of private schools deﬁed the law and with-
held their data last year. Some religious schools felt it
was not appropriate to have salaries made public. Other
schools with no federal funding reasoned that the gov-
ernment has no reason to know this information.

Although W&L resents having to give up salary in-
formation, it will stop short of such drastic action be-
cause it is illegal and punishable by substantial ﬁnes.

The University has no objection to the publication
of aggregate ﬁgures, because individual salaries are not
divulged. The average W&L full professor earns
$76,900, 14 percent above the national average. Asso-
ciate professors earn $53,500, 7 percent over the na-
tional average. Fox said that such competitive wages
attract high caliber professors.

The Chronicle study uncovered much larger sala-
ries nationwide. Dr. John A Curry of Northeastern Uni-
versity in Boston received almost a million dollars in
compensation.

“That is a lot of money for anyone, certainly for a
college president  it is hard to imagine how he could
deserve it,” Elrod said.

3";

 SWIPING

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

equipped with the swipe card system.

The fraternity houses do not yet have the system,
but, “that would be excellent,” Young said.

However, the system is not cheap; the original in-
stallation of the central system in Security and in the
freshman dorms in 1995 cost about $800,000. The
Gaines and Woods Creek systems cost about $100,000,
Young said.

Although rumors have circulated that residents who
are not connected with the University obtain swipe
cards to use the weight room, Young says this is un-
true. Only students and staff members can obtain
swipe cards.

Each card is speciﬁcally programmed with the iden-
tiﬁcation number of the student or staff member. The
scanner in the swipe station found outside a dormi-
tory door reads that number individually.

This database of ID numbers is updated regularly.
As soon as one graduates or leaves the staff, the number
is discontinued, but the name of the person and ID num-
ber remain in the database for identifaction purposes.

Young gave the example of a student who gradu-
ated two years ago.

“This man came back for a visit, and tried to enter

Graham-Lees,” said Young. “The door wouldn’t open .

for him, but his name, ID number and year of gradua-
tion showed up on the main terminal, in addition to
the exact door which he tried to get in.”

Blakelock stuns
Birdwhistell in
bocce debut

BY DEAN DAVID HOWISON

SPECIAL TO THE RING-TUM PHI

The ﬁrst round of the Class of 2001 W&L Bocce Tour-
nament produced a stunning upset as Carly Blakelock led
her Grahan-Lees team to victory over the pre-season favor-
ite Birdwhistells. After splitting the ﬁrst two min-games,
the Blaklocks and Birdwhistells locked up in an epic decsive
third game. Facing match point elimination with only one
throw leﬁ, Blakelock launched a shot from thrity feet that
struck the pallina and blocked Birdwhistells’ wining posi-
tion. Following Blakelock’s effort, the Birdwhistell team
of Dan Birdwhistell, Hugh Rabb, Brent Walker and Brian
Eachus fell apart, throwing several balls off the Lee-Jack-
son Filed in frustration. The ﬁnal score was 12 to 3.

In a magnanimous gesture, W&L Bocce Ball Commis-
sioner David Howsion granted the Birdwhistells a special
dispenation and permitted the team of Carly Blakelock,
Alexis Berstein, Carin Ritter and Nathan Urquhart moved
to the second round and established itself as the team to beat.

The next match will pit the Trey Overdyke team against
the Jennifer Strawbridge team on Wed., Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. on
the Lee-Jackson Bocce Ball Field. \

 G H OSTS
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

The building on the northeast corner of Nelson Street
and Lee Avenue, now Mountain Copy Graphics, is also
famous for its superhuman sightings. An anonymous
faculty member who has been here for “500 years” calls
this the “Home of the Uncooperative Ghost.” He attended
a séance there, but no ghost appeared.

A friend of Lexington resident Katie Letcher Lyle had
a supernatural experience in one of the apartments above
that building.

“He was terriﬁed one night to wake up to see a man
peering over him,” she said.

The apparent ghost then descended into the ﬂoor as if
he were descending down a staircase. A search for the
previous owner revealed that a stair case was once lo-
cated at that spot.

More stories of local myth and mystery can be found
in Anne Knox’s book, “The Gentle Ghosts,” published
by the Brandon Publishing Company of Lexington, Va.

BEER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
ration of alcohol to blood and sobriety tests.

After the ﬁrst hour, most of the participants’ BAC’s were
lower that projected. Many students also passed the sobri-
ety tests which included following the tip of an ofﬁcer’s
finger and standing on one foot for 30 seconds.

“People lose the ability to judge and they feel more in
control as their alcohol level gets higher,” Horton said.

Ofﬁcer Mark Riley said most of the students he catches
on drunken driving charges have been drinking for several
hours. He said although having one drink greatly increases
a person’s chances of having an accident, that those plan-
ning to drive should drink no more that one drink per hour.

After the second hour of controlled drinking, more than

A half the participant had BAC higher than .08 percent, which

is the legal limit for operating a motor vehicle in Virginia.
The highest was .14 percent and the lowest .044 percent.

The levels depend on a person’s weight, sex how long
it’s been since he/she last ate and what they are drinking.
Typically carbonated mixers speed the alcohol absorption
process, said Horton.

Since alcohol is distributed in body water, and women
have less body water than men, a woman’s BAC will be
greater than a man of equal weight.

Overall the participants and organizers felt the evening
was a success.

“I would like to have had more demonstrationsj’ Horton
said. “Students need to know how a standard drink is mea-
sured outside of this school.”

Senior Sunda Wells agrees.

“Most people pour Beam with a splash of coke, or a vodka
drink with a pinch of 0].,” she said.

A standard “mixed-drink” contains 1 and 1/4 ounce of
alcohol per glass. At W&L this can vary greatly depending
on who pours the drink.

1

 
  

. We

lT,ALI72§I\I
CLJ|Sll\l—£-

24 o/Vm yﬂam @9399;

540-464-5800,
I. l\l —

l I

IIOWS  

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 

PARENTS’ WEEKEND DESCENDS UPON

US YET AGAIN FRIDAY OCT. 31

Washington and Lee University will observe its 43rd annual Par-
ents’ Weekend on Friday, Oct. 31 and Sat., Nov. 1. Activities will be-
gin on Friday morning with open classes held by many of the academic
departments; parents are welcome to attend.

The Phi Eta Sigma initiation for sophomores, parents and advisors
will be held in the Leybum Library’s Northern Auditorium Friday at
3:30 p.m. The speaker will be Theodore C. DeLaney, Jr., assistant
professor of history at W&L. Other Friday aﬁemoon activities include
scheduled appointments with faculty and an open house for freshmen
and their parents from 4-5:30 p.m. at the Lee House. At 8 p.m. the
University Chorus and Chamber Singers will present a concert in Lee
Chapel. Saturday, parents are invited to attend a 10 a.m. report of the
deans titles “Academic and Student Life at Washington and Lee” in the
Commerce School Room 327 featuring Laurent Boetsch, dean of the
College and David L. Howison, dean of students. President John Elrod
will deliver the annual report to parents Sat., at 1 1:30 am. in Lee Chapel.

ENGLISH PROFESSOR DABNEY STUART

PUBLISHES SHORT STORIES

Dabney Stuart, S. Blout Mason Jr. professor of English at W&L has
published his 15th book and second collection of ﬁction, The Way to
Cobbs Creek. The new work is a collection of short stories, and has
been called “a book replete with wonders, of place, of character, of
feeling, a dynamic meditation on the mysteries of family, judgement,
mercy, being. These are works of poetry and power by a writer in full
command of his art.”

A volume of Stuart’s poetry was published recently by the LSU Press,
Long Gone (1996). It was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize, the fourth
such nomination for Stuart.

W&L ALUMNUS PRESENTS ONLINE

BANKING LECTURE

James S. “Chip” Mahan III ’73, founder and chief executive ofﬁcer
of Security First Network Bank, will speak in Room 327 of W&L’s
Commerce School on Thurs., Oct. 30, at 7 p.m.. His lecture is titled
“An Introduction to Cyber Banking,” and the public is invited to at-
tend. Prior to becoming CEO of Security First Network Bank, Mahan
worked for Wachovia Bank & Trust Company for 10 years until he
returned to his home state of Kentucky to become the president of a
Lexington community bank. Security First Network Bank,
www.sfnb.com, is the country’s ﬁrst entirely “online” bank, meaning
that it has no physical location except for the back ofﬁces that maintain
the network.

lg Ladies C502’ [mews
Kitchen Shoppe

   
     
    
  
   

   

. .2)
f/701' a//your coofiny needs

7/H Cutlery * Aprons * Bridal Registry,
Pizza. Accessories * Gadgets * Coolzboolzs
8 Coffee Essentials * Gilt Basleets * Gourmet Foods

/22 (Sou/512201172 (S/red [540] 464-36936’

app 0910990  

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing '
and Accessories

mﬁsmmbﬁ

Welcome Parents!

23 N. Main St.

Lexington, Va 24450 (540) 463-5988

   
 
   
 

Now Thru
November

  , 2nd!
/Aw t=<-‘=2:--F7‘7 ' #

Birkenstock Footwear..................ALL 15-25% Off!
Warm &fuzzy Fleece...................ALL 20-30% Off!
Sleeping Bags ....  ........ ..ALL up to 30% Off!
Internal Frame Packs...............ALL up to 35% Off!
Gor—tex Rainwear....................ALL up to 25% Off!
Patagonia Underwear.......Buy 1, Get 1 Half Price!
Assorted Vests (Hunting, Travel, etc.).........$20.00l

All Winter Coats, Ski.Parkas............SAVE $30.00!
Sel’ cted Tents, Hiking Boots and Bikes on Sale

Rockfish Gap Outfitters

Route 250
Waynesboro
540—943— 1 46 1

as;

G0

  

 

Open Sundays
Til Christmas !

  
 
 

 

,\

)\-

1

   

 

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 

PAGE 3

Fertilizer, shovels, plants and ghosts

Wo.1-Mo.rt’s
horticultural
house of ham:

BY HILLARY COOMBS

MANAGING EDITOR

Raven House (It’s Haunted) is not as scary
as the construction mess around the soon-to-be
Lexington Super Wal-Mart, but it’s certainly a
lot more fun.

‘‘It was cool when the spiders were coming
down and stuff,” said Chris Hall, 9. “I don’t think
there was any really scary stuff, though.”

Whether there’s any “scary stuff’ depends
on who you ask. All Keith Burley, 5, could do
when he came out of Raven House was repeat,
“It was scary.”

Ghost guides greet visitors to the haunted
house, which opened Oct. 3 in the Wal-Mart
Garden Center. Each guide tells the funny story
of his demise and then leads visitors through the
30-by-60-foot house.

Local artist R.J. Ogren, whose studio created
Raven House, describes the project as “a cross
between Disney’s ‘Haunted Mansion’ and R.L.
Stein’s ‘Goosebumps.

“lt’s all based on a script, ghost guides, a
lot of humor and fun scares,” Ogren said. “The
way you really scare people and make it funny

don’t expect.”

cause Ogren believes that

family tradition,” Ogren said.

and hopes that by then the

Raven House closes on
from Nov. 7 to Nov. 15 as

A FRIGHTENING TOWNIE welcomesguests
into the Raven House, Wal-Mart ’s haunted
Garden Center. HOLUSTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

guides through the scenes

CD Alum Michael Sokolowski
releases debut instrumental album.

BYMLGOOCH

STAFF Wizmza

“In November Sunlight,” the debut CD of
the instrumental group “Soko,” reveals a style
of music similar to the Charlottesville scene
where it was spawned. The listener hears
traces ofthe jazz-rock experimentalism which
has dominated the Charlottesville scene since
the late ’80s. 

In fact, Leroi Moore and '3’.
Tim Reynolds of Dave
Matthew’s Band has of-‘< ~.
ten played with “Soko”
and Dave himself per-
forms on “In Novem-
ber Sunlight.” The
debut album is a re- ,7
freshing mix of up— i
beat piano melody‘
paired with a solid
blend of inspiring
bass and drum
rhythm.

M i c h a e l
Sokolowski, the
band’s composer and
pianist, believes that pure in-
strumentalism gives the artist freedom to com-
municate emotionally with the listener with-
out the distraction of words. His music exudes a
unity derived from the trio’s»organ playing.

Although occasionally the music seems
drawn out and vague, it always reforms to a

ern music industry.
The history of “Soko”

music that he plays now.

in

   
 
    
   
  
  
 
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
  

4!"

have

I; “Soko” is

nity bands.

Lexington music stores.

  

BY GINGER PHILLIPS
STAFF Wanna

0 you ever wonder if all those things you stay up way too late at
night studying will ever have any real signiﬁcance? What better
way to find out than to experience those cultures once seen only in
postcards and pictures. Washington and Lee of- 
fers a wide range of opportunities for students to

0

without making it disgusting is to set them up ,
purposefully and have something happen they

Ogren spent four years working for Walt
Disney World as an animation artist. He and his
wife, Suzanne, moved to the county after he de-
cided to open his own studio. They relocated to
Lexington out of a love for the Shenandoah Valley
and the accessibility of interstates 64 and 81.

There’s no blood or gore in Raven House be-

Instead, the ghosts and ghouls he thinks were the

traditional stars of Halloween come alive in the

house through black-light special-eﬂ°ect painting.
“What we’re creating is a haunted house in the

And they have. Ogren says that in the week
they’ve been open, only two children have refused
to enter Raven House. People of all age groups, from
infants to the elderly, have taken the guided tour.

Most of the guides are local high school students.

“lt’s like getting paid to have fun,” said Leslie
Gordon, a Rockbridge County High School student.
“I like to scream when I know something’s coming
up just to make them scream.”

According to Ogren, Raven House averages
about 100 guests a night. Many are people who came
to shop at Wal-Mart. The store makes an announce-
ment about the haunted house every 15 minutes.

The house has had visitors from as far away as
Charlottesville. Ogren attributes that to Raven
House’s ad in “Visiting Lexington and the
Rockbridge Area,” the Lexington Visitor Center’s
guidebook. He plans to run local radio spots adver-
tising the house during the last week in October

averaging 400 to 500 visitors per night.

Raven House is open from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m.
daily. Some of the “scares” work best with a crowd,
so go during the peak times of Friday and Saturday
night. Visitors can get $1 off the $3 price of admis-
sion when they bring in a canned good for the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association.

effect Christmas attraction. Guests will follow

featuring the wicked Professor Frost. Santa Claus,
his elves and reindeer will also make appearances. ‘

Basking ‘In November Sunlight’

soothing and uplifting theme. “Soko” should re-
ceive its highest praise for its true originality. For
although the band’s sound can be traced to the
Charlottesville genre, “In November Sunlight” de-
parts from the standard regurgitation of the mod-

’83, started out playing in a band called “405" while
he was a student here at W&L. It was during his
college years that Sokolowski discovered the style of

After,-a nine year hiatus ﬁom this style,
' the gifted composer and pianist

’ met a bass and drum rhythm
duo that had played together

3 band has played with vari-
., ous artists and its members
done much to launch their
careersas professional musicians.

prospect of returning to Lexington for a gig,
and their laid-back style ofmusic would certainly

present a healthy change from the token frater-

‘‘In November Sunlight” is now available in

 

   
    

they’re desensitizing.

“Kids can go through it.”

(Professor George Ray). L()(lI.\‘l;' U1«‘/«'/«.‘u.4AN/Sr/it 1/A

BY ANDREA EWING
Assoazm; E)rroR
The search for inner peace is the theme
of Uncle Vanya, presented by the Washing-
ton and Lee theater department this week.
Issues of ﬁdelity, feminism and environ-
mentalism are woven through the story of a
family in late nineteenth century Russia. The
audience feels the characters’ unease as they
deal with jealousy,
love and hatred. As
Chekov writes, “There
is something wrong
in this house.” The
unsettling feeling es-
tablished in the first
scene lingers until the
final bows.
Chekov’s play
centers on the concerns
ofthe intellectual elite.
An elderly professor
and his young wife
come to stay with the

professor’s brother-
in-law on his estate in the country. In the
ensuing drama, conflicts arise as people
fall in love.

I saw the dress rehearsal for the show Oc-
tober 23rd and was duly impressed. The acting
ability of the students amplified my fascination
with the play. The entire cast was well chosen
and did a splendid job. Appealing time-period
costumes and a remarkably simple set added to
the perfonnance.

The staging enhances the tension of the play

haunted house will be

  

Oct. 31. It will reopen
a black-light special-

of an adventure story

begins when Sokolowski,

for two decades. And
i o, in Charlottesville
in 1991, Michael
_o k 0 l o w s k i ,
Johnny Gilmore
and Houston Ross
,. fonned the band who

eventually called
t h e m s e l v e s
“Soko.” Since 1991, the

enthusiastic about the

MARIA (Megan Johnson '98) tries to prevent a confrontation between Vanya (Zach Hanks ‘98) and Professor Serebryakov

Johnson Theatre recreates

any

I. 'l'() '['Hl:' RING-7'!/M PHI

by bringing the audience in touch with the
lives of the characters. The show is staged
in—the-round style with the stage in the cen-
ter and the audience on all four sides. This
allows everyone in the audience to have a
better view, but calls for the actors to play to
all sides...

The principle character is Uncle Vanya,

played by senior Zach

 

3 ll
e ers Hanks. Vanya is a doleful

man who cannot find love
and puts his life on hold for
his brother—in-law, the pro-
fessor. Hanks plays a be-
lievable embittered old man
and makes the
audience feel
the pain of the
character.

Dr. George Ray plays pro-
fessor Alexander Serebryakov,
an old man who believes he is
the center of the household. A

19th century Russia
hypochondriac, he makes his

wife and family wait on him

and and foot. Ray’s portrayal adds comic relief
to an otherwise very serious production.

I was perhaps most impressed by Erin
Mullaney, senior, as the professor’s young wife,
Yelena. Mullaney’s talented performance con-
veys the frustration of an idle woman trapped in
a loveless marriage. Yelena’s situation derives
from her sense of duty to her husband, which
prevents her from leaving her marriage.

PLAY REVIEW

I1C

    

Mitchll CD See VANYA page 4

W8L’S WORLDWlD€ CLASSROOM

Students who have done it agree, you can

ited number of exchange programs with universities in Japan, Denmark,
Hong Kong, and England.

Generally, over 100 W&L students study abroad each year. The majority
go abroad during the spring tem, and a relatively small number of students

choose to leave forithe full academic year. “Students enjoy being here at W&L
so much that they are often afraid of being gone too long,”

Director of International Education William Klingelhofer said.

study and work around the world —— from learn- Study abroad opens This fall, W&L students are studying in such dis-
ing Spanish in Madrid to studying Shakespeare in up the worldfor parate places as Ireland, Israel, Ecuador, Austria, Mada-
London. gascar, Hungary, Denmark, and France. Students study-

W&L presents several study abroad programs Students-" ing abroad for the full year have gone to South Africa,
during the six week spring term, which begins in mid- Venezuela, Scotland, and Taiwan. If a student desires
April and ends in late May. Students can travel to _Wl-[ll-am Kl]-ngelhofer to study in a country which is not part of any W&L

countries such as Germany, Italy, Spain, France,
Poland, and England. The university also has a lim-

 

program, numerous colleges in Virginia and around the
nation offer programs which are accepted by W&L.

77

broaden your mind

 
     

o

ith a trip

Despite the fact that W&L offers a greater variety of opportunities than
other universities, only a small number of W&L students actually study abroad.
Klingelhofer believes that the ﬁnancial requirements for these trips are one
reason for this tradition.

And because of the International Education Ofﬁce was established only
this year, it has not been as easy for students to access information about study
abroad programs in the past. Since international study has not been a part of
W&L’s past culture, there has been little communication between students
who have studied abroad and those who might be interested in such an oppor-
tunity ifthey only had more information.

Klingelliofer says, “Study abroad opens up the world for students in very
concrete ways.”

Senior Kelley Totten learned this fact on her trip to France during the

CD See ABROAD page 4

 

 
 

  l  '\ , I _., I ,_ _";“_=I:‘I7/
LEXlNG’i'6N:'QA EAAESHSITE‘ .

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 silatest releas
ards From’ the Road.” A

the essence of a‘ Rayburn show
comedy, the songs and the e

(D SONYA
(Shelley Adams
‘98) comforts
Vanya (Zach
Hanks '99) after
everyone has
left them. L()l/[SE
UI~'lv‘h'l.MAN/
SPEC/A1. 'I'() THE
RING-YUM PHI

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

piness he feels.

Johnson Theater, because of the staging.

Junior Shelley Adams plays the plain Sonya, Vanya’s niece
and the professor’s daughter. She is in love with the doctor, but
he does not know she exists. Adams’ moving monologue re-
veals a girl who longs to be beautiful, yet who knows she is not.

Only a few tickets are leftfor the Saturday of Parents’
Weekend, so reserve yours‘now. The show is held in the

The doctor, portrayed byjunior Drew Higgs, is a tired,
sensitive man who longs for a different life. Dr. Astrov
drinks incessantly, his only way of dealing with the unhap-

See the play 8 pm.
Mona/2 y or Tbcsday in
the Lenfed Centa.
Yhere W171 Ix’ a special
P.zn’:‘n£s* Wedrend
pezfonnmce 2 p.m.

° S7tu1d7}/.
Tickesz 4638000

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER e CO.
INVESTMENT BANI<ERS

INVESTMENT BANKERS TO THE MIDDLE MARKET

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER Ed’ CO IS THE PREMIER PROVIDER OP MERGER
AND ACQUISITION AND PRIVATE PINAN CE EXPERTISE TO THE MIDDLE
MARKET. OUR CLIENTS INCLUDE PRIVATE EQUITY GROUPS
AND DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL CORPORATIONS.

WE OFER A TWO-YEAR ANALYST PROGRAM OPEN TO
MOTIVATED UNDERGRADUATES WHO HAVE A
DEMONSTRATED RECORD OF
ACCOMPLISHMENT.

]OIN US FOR A COMPANY PRESENTATION.

 ABROAD

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

winter and spring terms last year. She
took classes not offered here at W&L,
and her learning extended beyond the

four walls of the classroom to the his-'

tory, art, and architecture of France.

“The cultural approach gave me
a different perspective on what I was
learning in class,” she said. “When I
came back to W&L I could see a parallel
between my experiences in France and
the classes I was taking here.”

Totten made the decision to be-
come a French major after her ex-
perience abroad. This supports
Klingelhofer’s theory that the best
way to reinforce language study
here at the university is language
study abroad.

Study abroad also provides an
excellent opportunity for personal
growth. Heather Cook, ’98, studied
at the University of Reading in En-
gland last fall. “The experience deﬁ-
nitely made me more independent,
and I had the best time,” Cook said.
She believes that studying abroad is
an excellent chance to meet new
people from all over the world.

Students who study abroad on
non-W&L-sponsored programs will
receive credit for the courses which
they take in foreign countries; how-
ever, the grades themselves are non-
transferable. Tuition is paid directly
to the program, not to W&L.

For all W&L-sponsored pro-
grams, fees are paid in addition to
regular university tuition, and finan-
cial aid is applicable. Certain pro-
grams require students to undergo
speciﬁc preparation for their upcom-
ing trips abroad. Those programs in-
volving foreign language study often
require students to meet with native
language assistants and participate in

How are you? Fine.

cultural infonnation sessions before
they go abroad.

The international education of-
ﬁce is doing a great deal to increase
participation in the study abroad
programs. Students can access the
library of study abroad materials
available in the IEO in the ofﬁce,
located on the second floor of
Tucker Hall. A web site is in the
works which will make information
on international study more acces-
sible to students.

Klingelhofer hopes that students
will think of international education
in a broad sense and consider intern-
ships and job opportunities as well
as university study. “A real under-
standing of other people’s cultures
and societies gives students the in-
ternational perspectives and skills
to help them in the marketplace,”
he says. “There is virtually no
market in which international skills
are not important.”

SENIOR HEATHER COOK met a
Yeomen Warden at the Tower of
London when she studied abroad.
PHOTO (.‘()URTliSY or Hl:‘ATHER COOK >

What did you do today? Nothing.
Anything exciting happen last weekend? No.

Find out what your
child isn’t telling you.

6111: King-tum ﬁhi welcomes you to Parents Weekend. Since 1897, we've
covered all aspects of W&L campus life.
A subscription to the Phi costs only $30 for a full year (25 issues).
Send your name, address and a $30 check to The Ring-tum Phi, University
Center, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

THEATER AT LIME KILN

presents

FOLKTALES BY FIRELIGIHT

October 29-31, 7 p.m.

in the Kiln

Parents will enjoy a night of 5CARY -TALE5, 5P00l’)’ 50NG5 and lots of
laughs under starry skies.
‘And they may even “treat” you for telling them about it.

Adults $4
Children $2

Come in costume, get in for 1/2 price

Call Subway ioraPaIiy Sub
, orParly Platter. You tell us how
.. long you wanlyour Party Sub-
and we'll make it.
And we'll stuff your Party Plailer
with your favorite subs-sliced in
tasty 4" portions. Save our number.
And lalklo us when is party lime.*

PARTY LINE.

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1997, 7:00 PM
UNIVERSITY CENTER, ROOM 114

ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1997

RESUME DROP DEADLINE -- NOVEMBER 6, 1997

IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO ATTEND THE PRESENTATION, BUT WOULD LIKE TO LEARN
MORE ABOUT BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER a CO. PLEASE SEE OUR COMPANY
BROCHURES AT THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT OEEICE,
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT WWW.BHC—CO.COM, OR CONTACT MICHAEL HOWLEY,
CAM DYER ('96), JUSTIN DARDANI ('96), OR NATHAN MYERS (’97)

AT (704) 348-1000.

‘Advance notice required

Subway Lexington
453 E. Nelson St.
_4’63-3322

BOLES HOLLOWELL CONNER e CO. CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

 

OCTOBER 27, 1997

RESULTS

Football (2-5)
Sat.: Sewanee
W&L

Volleyball (10-8)
Tues.: RMWC 0
W&L 3
W&L 3
Sewanee 3
3
2
3
1

48
14

Thu.:

W&L
Averett
W&L

C. Newport

Sat.:

Women’s Soccer (13-1)
Wed.: W&L 10
E&H 0
RM 0
W&L 1

Sat.:

Men’s Soccer (7
Tues.: VMI
W&L
W&L
RM

)

-2

0

1

Sat.: 1

2
Men’s X-Country

9th of 25 at Gettysburg
Invitational

Women’s X-Country

16th of 25 at Gettysburg
Invitational

AHEAD

Football
Sat.: Home at 1:30 vs.
Bridgewater

Volleyball
Sat.: at C. Newport

Men’s Soccer
Wed.: Home at 3:00 vs.
Roanoke
Sat.: Home at 1:00 vs.
Denison

Women’s Soccer
Wed.: ODAC 1st Round

Men’s & Women’s
X-Country
Sat: ODAC Championships

 

Sewanee rolls over
the Generals, 48-14

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
———?— smr Wm

ash ington and Lee im proved
their record to 2-4
after they destroyed

Hampden-Sydney 29-7 last Saturday.
Leading the way for the Generals was
running back, Hanley Sayers, who
gained 112 yards on 20 carries and
also had two touchdowns. Sopho-
more quarterback Christian Batcheller
followed up his record breaking per-
formance against Davidson with an-
other ﬁne game He was 12 for 19,
completing for 141 yards and two
touchdowns, a 49 yarder to J.T.
Malatesta, and a 6-yard strike to fresh-
man Wes Hardy.

Washington and Lee took the lead
late in the second quarter with a saftey
and they led 16-0 at halftime. The
Generals would add 2 more touch-
downs in the second half and
Hampden-Sydney would get their
lone score in the fourth quarter on a
19 yard touchdown pass to Thomas
Ransom from Karl Tuhey. The loss
dropped Hampden-Sydney to 0-6.

The Generals saw their two game
winning streak dissapear on Saturday
as longtime rival Sewanee rolled over
the Generals 48-14 in Sewanee, Ten-
nessee. Sewanee gained an impres-
sive 539 yards on the ground as the
Generals defense simply could not
stop the Tigers running game.

The loss dropped Washington &
Lee to 2-5 and Sewanee improved to
4-3 with the win.

The game was close early as the
Generals took a 7-6 lead after fresh-
man Hanley Sayers scored on a 39
yard touchdown with 9:01 left in the
first quarter. That would be the last
time the Generals would see a lead
however, as Sewanee tallied 35 con-
secutive points on their way to vic-
tory. The Generals were kept out of
the endzone until the fourth quarter
when Sayers scored his second touch-
down of the game, this one from 2

ports

PAGE 5

Women’s soccer
withstands first loss

Suffering its first loss to Lynchburg, the
Generals come back strong, setting new record
of 13 season victories

BY FRANCES GROEERG
—““"*"“'—“'_‘:‘ STAFF \WRl'1‘ER

the women’s soccer team. Last

Wednesday, the team suffered its
first loss of the season to Lynchburg,
but came back strong to win the re-
maining three games. As a result of
the Generals’ efforts, the team ended
their regular season 13-1 overall for
the season and 8-1 in the ODAC tour-
nament.

This past weekend against
Randolph-Macon, the team set a new
school record of 13 wins in a season
by defending the six-time defending
ODAC champion by a score of 1-0.
With the win, the Generals broke
RMC’s 69 game ODAC unbeaten
streak, which dates back to 1991. The
last game RMC lost prior to Saturday
was also against W&L. In defeating
the Yellow Jackets, the Generals also
set a new school conference win
record of eight.

The game was scoreless until the
ﬁnal six minutes, until freshman Mar-
garet-Hunter Turner passed the ball to
senior Erica Reineke, who booted it
past the RMC goalie Carrie Plunkett.
Despite the fact that RMC outshot the
Generals 14-6 and won 13 corner
kicks to W&L’s one, the team was still
able to pull out the victory. When the
ﬁnal buzzer sounded, the scoreboard
showed 1-0 in favor of W&L. Sopho-
more Stephanie McKnight and fresh-
man Lauren Harris, W&L’s two goal-
ies, recorded a combined seven saves
and recorded their sixth shutout of the
season.

To celebrate the momentous vic-
tory, the Generals decided to “bare all”
and participate in a ceremonial run of
the Colonnade.

Against Emory and Henry on

It’s been a down and up week for

yards out. Sayers ﬁnished with 143
yards on 27 carries and 2 touchdowns,
a lone bright spot in an otherwise dis-
mal Generals perfonnance.

The Tigers dominated virtually
every major statistical category. Ti-
gers players rushed for more than 98
yards, including Craig May who
rushed for 121 yards on 9 carries, an
impressive 13.4 yards per carry. All
in all, the Tigers ran the ball 68 times,
passed only 9 times and averaged 7.9
yards per cany as a team. The Tigerss
strategy was simple: run the ball right
down the General’s throats and see if
the General’s defense could stop them.
The answer turned out to be an obvi-
ous no and Sewanee ran on the Gen-
erals all day long.

Washington and Lee will see if
they can get back to their winning
ways when they host rival
Bridgewater next Saturday, at Wilson
Field at lp.m. Next week is parent’s
weekend and like homecoming, the
Generals will have some extra incen-
tives to do well.

_W&L vs. Sewanee

Game Stats

Thursday, junior co-captain Karin
Treese boosted the number of school
records she holds to four as the Gen-
erals defeated the Wasps by a score
of 10-0.

With her four goals and three as-
sists of the game, Treese set a new
W&L single game pont record with
11 and a record for the most goals in
a season with 22. She also broke the
record for most points in a season with
the game with 49. Treese holds the
record for all-time goals as well.

In the game, W&L took control‘ at
the very beginning and held onto it
for the duration. Less than 10 min-
utes into the game, the women had
already extended a 3-0 lead with a
goal from Treese in between two from
Ginny Jemigan. By halftime, the lead
was increased to 8-0 with goals from
senior Erica Reineke, senior co-cap-
tain Lorraine Taurassi, two more from
Treese, and one from freshman Lind-
say Williams.

This still wasn’t good enough for
the Generals. Treese and freshman
Courtney Nolan would each net a goal
in the second half to give W&L their
second 10-0 victory of the season.

Last Saturday, during the read-
ing days, the team played against
Notre Dame of Maryland. Though
the score was a little closer than that
of Emory and Henry, the Generals
pulled out a 3-1 victory.

It was Treese, who once again
started the team on the right foot,
scoring an unassisted goaljust over

10 minutes into the game. The

score stood 1-0 in favor ofthe Gen-
erals at halftime and through the
first part of the second half until
Nolan scored another unassisted
goal to put W&L up 2-0.

Notre Dame didn’t give up, how-
ever, and rebounded with a goal from

Casey Hentz to decrease the Gener-
als’ margin to 2-1. Erica Reineke
sealed the victory as time expired with
a goal off a pass from Nicole Johnson.

Sophomore goalie Stephanie
McKnight played the entire game, re-
cording five saves in the non-confer-
ence win.

Wednesday the 15th was a clash
between two undefeated teams—W&L
and Lynchburg. Someone had to win,
to break the other’s record. Unfortu-
nately for the Generals, it was
Lynchburg who came out on top.

For just the second time this sea-
son, W&L failed to get on the
scoreboard ﬁrst, as Kerrie Swarts of
Lynchburg scored from the top right
comer of the penalty area to give LC

1-0‘lead 14 minutes into the game.
Latrisha Wahe scored for Lynchburg
just six and a half minutes later to ex-
tend their lead to 2-0.

The Generals mounted a comeback
with a goal and a successful penalty
shot from Treese off a foul on fresh-
man Margaret-Hunter Turner, tying
the game at 24:32.

The tie was broken midway
through the second half as Swarts of
Lynchburg scored her second goal of
the game. Then, after numerous
chances for W&L to tie the game once
more, Lynchburg counterattacked on
a failed W&L comer kick, and Kristen
Kowit sealed the game at 4-2 with her
goal.

“What it came down to was that
(Lynchburg) played 90 minutes and
we didn’t,” said co-captain Taurassi.
“I think we needed the loss to wake
ourselves up a little. Lately, we’d
been just settling for the win. Now
we’re back to playing our game.”

Next on the schedule for the Gen-
erals is the ﬁrst round of the ODAC
champoinships.

H()I.I.IS'I'I;'R H()Vl:‘Y/PH()’l'0 EI)I'I‘()R

FRESHNEN WATER POLO players took a jog around Evans Dining
Hall in their uniforms on Thursday to raise support for this weekend ’s
Mid-Atlantic Championships. After crushing U VA, 24-5 on Friday, the
Generals dropped a thriller to West Chester, 9-10 on Saturday. They
claimed 3rd place yesterday by beating Georgetown, I6-8. In their first
year as a club team, the General ’s 12-2 record forcefully demonstrated
their ability to compete on the varsity level. Let's hope someone noticed.

all it baseball’s version of
the Ice Bowl.

The 1997 World Series
will be remembered as much for
the elements than for any of its on-
field action. It was so chilly in
Cleveland (a balmy 38 degrees
during Game 4) that the Jacobs
Field fans must have thought that
the Browns were back in business.
Rumor has it that Bart Starr was
warming up in the bullpen and
hockey legend Gordie Howe was
on the on-deck circle, trying to
make his token appearance in yet
another decade.

Strangely enough, the
warm-weather Florida Marlins
took two of the three in Cleveland
despite the raucous crowd and the
teams. The epic Game 4 lasted

THE‘. BIG I-‘AN

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER

The Frozen Field
of Dreams

so long (four hours and 12 min-
utes) that Thanksgiving turkeys
were on the clubhouse tables. The
longest World Series game ever
without Mitch Williams also fea-
tured the wackiest ninth inning in
Series annals.

Aided by three Cleveland er-
rors, the Marlins scored seven
times in the ninth to take a com-
manding 14-7 lead, then watched
the Indians storm back with four
runs in the bottom of the ninth
before the final out was recorded.
Despite network executives
moaning about two small market
teams and horribly low ratings,
this was a very competitive World
Series. Cleveland and Florida
were not the best teams in base-

«[159 SeeBIGFANpage6

FRESHMAN ANDY ROBINSON (#35) andjunior Trey Carr (#15) watch
anxiously as the Generals drop their first game in three weeks to Sewanee
48-14. This loss came after an impressive streak of two victories against
Davidson and Hampden —Sydney. 1‘10LI.ISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

W&L S
1st downs 13 26
Rushes/yds. 37173 68/536
Passing yds. 87 104

Off. plays/yds 65/260 77/643

Time ofPos. 28:41 31:19

Interested in
Women’s Club
Squash?)

  Contact Kim Russell
462-4745

<CDJock Shorts.

'- Men’s soccer loses tough OT battle -
- Volleyball collects two key victories -
- X-country runs them over at Gettysburg -

Men’s Soccer

With the rain falling like the anger
of the soccer gods, death came sud-
denly to the men’s soccer team in
overtime play on Thursday.

A messy, bitterly fought battle with
Randolph-Macon had resulted in a 1-
1 tie at the end of regulation play.
During the game, the Generals had
fought back from a 1-0 lead with a
head goal from sophomore Ben Th-
ompson. After the goal, Washington
and Lee had produced several chances
to put the game away, but fate decreed
that a win for the Generals was not to
be.

With only four minutes expired in
sudden—death overtime, Randolph-

Macon’s Scott Eley fired a shot which
proved to be the death blow for Wash-
ington and Lee. Like a poison arrow,
it ﬂew straight and true to W&L’s far
post, beating both the defense and the
goal-keeper.

The 2-1 loss to Randolph-Macon
came as a big let down for the W&L 1
team, who hadjust come offofa huge 3
win against crosstown rival Virginia
Military Institute. Ben Thompson‘
(who has been on a scoring spree as ‘
of late) scored the game’s only goal .
in the second half. The shot was a
hard, low liner from outside the eigh-
teen yard line that beat VMI Keeper
Jonathon Cabrera to the far post.

While it looked as if VMI would

 Se€_lOCK SHORTS page 6

 

    

PAGE 6

CI; JOCK SHORTS

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5

score an easy goal on an open net just
three minutes later, All-American
Mikel Parkermade an incredible play,
clearing the ball and saving the game.
The more physical VMI team out shot
W&L 14-10, but keeper EJ. Murphy
proved magniﬁcent with nine saves,
putting a plug on VMI’s attempts to
score.

The men’s soccer team will play
their ﬁnal regular season league game
against perennial power-house
Roanoke on Wednesday. A win
against Roanoke could give the Gen-
erals the spark they desperately need
as they prepare to enter post-season
ODAC play.

For the Generals, the key to beat-
ing Roanoke and winning in the
ODAC tournament rests in the ability
of goal scorers Sam Chase, Jamie
Parker, and Ben Thompson. The de-
fense anchored by Mikel Parker can

keep the games close, but the Gener- '

als must now turn on the offense if
they wish to win.

Junior Sam Chase became the all
time leading Washington and Lee
point scorer and tied the mark for the
most career goals last week in a game
against Savannah College of Art and
Design. However, Chase and fellow
forward Parker were held scoreless in
the last two games against VMI and
Randolph-Macon. Ifthe Generals
hope for ODAC success, these two
must ﬁnd a way to score

Volleyball

It was an up-and-down week for
the General’s volleyball. On the
Thursday during Reading Days, they
lost their ﬁrst regular-season confer-

. ence match in over two years to

Guilford 16-14, 11-15, 4-15, 15-8.
They re-entered the race for the
ODAC championship, however, by
defeating Randolph Macon, which
was tied for second in the conference
with W&L, on Tuesday night 15-6,
15-11,15-8 and Hollins15-4, 14-16,
16-14, 15-7 on Thursday night.
Those two wins set up the match of
the season Thursday night in the
Warner Center against league lead-
ing Eastern Mennonite, who the Gen-

 

  

  

‘: grim 

 

 

7' it-iii: .‘.."....ie-zit-.-mL.. .I


~ ':"-‘tar:

erals have already defeated once. A
victory would ensure a third-straight
regular season conference champion-
ship for the Generals.
The loss to Guilford snapped a 23-
game winning streak in ODAC regu-
lar season play, which dated to a 1995
loss to Bridgewater. The match was
also signiﬁcant in a positive way,
though, in that senior Hilary Martin’s
team leading 11 kills made her the
ﬁrst player in school history to record
1000 kills in a career. With that loss,
the Generals dropped into a tie with
Randolph Macon for second in the
league with a 6-1. They took sole pos-
session of second in their subsequent
victory over RM. Despite the 3-0 mar-
gin, each game of that match was awell
contested affair. In game two, in fact,
the Generals had to rally from a 9-1
deﬁcit to claim victory. In game three,
5 service aces were the biggest differ-
ence, three of which were by sopho-
more Nancy Reinhart. Overall, the
Generals were led by junior Megan
Snodgrass, who was particularly domi-
nating in game two, and Reinhart with
8 kills apiece. Senior Holly Thomsen
had 7 kills, while Martin tallied 6. Ali
Beard, senior, had 24 assisits.
Following that victory, the Gener-
als traveled to Roanoke, where they
defeated Hollins in four games.
Snodgrass was again dominant on of-
fense, tallying a career high 18 kills.
Katherine Kline, a freshman setter, had
a career high 33 assists, as well. With
the win, the Generals improved to 8-1
in the conference. The squad left the
ODAC over the weekend when they
traveled to Christopher Newport. The
Generals ﬁnally broke through against
a regionally ranked school, something
they have failed to do all season, when
they defeated #8 Avarett. 11-15, 16-
14, 8-15, 15-11, 16-14. Beard had
46 assists, while Reinhart had 23 kills
and 21 digs. Martin and Snodgrass
also contributed with 20 and 16 kills,
respectively. They then defeated host
Christopher Newport in four, winning
15-9, 16-14, 13-15, 15-12. Reinhart
again led the offense with 21 kills, and
Snodgrass added 13 kills and 3 ser-
vice aces. Both these strong wins
against tough regional competition

should give the Generals boost of .

conﬁdence when they host Eastern
Mennonite in the ﬁnal game of the
season on Thursday.

Ruff Hewn - Ladies
Eagle’s Eye
Pendleton

Woolrich - Ladies

Corbin - Ladies

Men’s Ruff Hewn
Firehose Pants

T 

X-Country

Washington and Lee’s men’s cross
country team traveled to Gettysburg,
Pa. on Saturday to compete in the
Gettysburg Invitational. -With a team
score of 296, the men chalked up an
impressive 9th-place ﬁnish out of 35
teams. The leading runner for the
Generals was Jason Callen who ﬁn-
ished 20th out of 223 runners with a
time of 25:36. Other top runners for
the men were Will Olson, who ﬁn-
ished 28th overall with a time of
25:49, and Greg Ruthig, who ﬁnished
38th with a time of 26:06. The team
will return to action on November 8th,
when they make a run at the ODAC
championship.

The women’s cross country
team, like their male counterparts, also
traveled to Gettysburg to compete in
the Gettysburg Invitational. The
women ﬁnished 16th out of 33 teams
with Natasha Dorofeeva once again
leading the way with a time of 18:21
and a 15th place overall ﬁnish. Other
top runners for the women’s team were
Carson Flowers, who finished 63rd
with atime of 19:23, and Lisa Brennan,
who ﬁnished 81st with a time of 19:49.
The ladies will take this weekend off
and resume competition November 8th
at the ODAC championships.

SOITS

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 BIG FAN

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5
ball this season, but who cares?
They won the games when it
counted most and put on a good
show for the fans. After all, when
was the last time there was an ex-
citing World Seriesl?

It is just too bad they couldn’t
play in better conditions. Cold
weather will become the norm in
future World Series unless the own-
ers reduce the season from 162
games to 154 games or axe a play-
off round. The current situation
doesn’t work. With the season start-
ing at the end of March, several
games this year were postponed be-
cause of snow or cold temperatures.
(‘Fortunately for baseball, the
Rockies were not in the World Se-
ries this year amidst the major
snowstorm in Colorado.) And hav-
ing eight teams in the playoffs in-
stead of four makes a long season
useless.

Of course, ifthe TV bigwigs had
their way, they would cancel the
season and put the Braves and the
Yankees in the Series every year.
They would also consider starting
postseason games at 1l:0Op.m. in
order not to disrupt Must See TV.

College football pollsters are at
it again. Three years after they

slighted Penn State for the national
championship in favor of Nebraska,
history could repeat itself. Each
time, it has happened in similar cir-
cumstances. In 1994, Penn State led
at Indiana 35-14, but the Hoosiers
scored two late touchdowns to make
the score deceptively close at 35-
29.

Pollsters looked at that score and
then saw Nebraska hammer Colo-
rado, so they dropped the Nittany
Lions to second. Earlier this year,
Penn State lost a share of No. 1 af-
ter Florida beat another opponent
82-6. After regaining the top posi-
tion for one week, Penn State got
knocked around at home last week
by an undermanned Minnesota
team, trailing 15-3 midway through
the fourth quarter.

The Lions could and should have
lost, but they rallied late to win 16-
15. But after watching Nebraska
blast a similarly mediocre Texas
Tech team at home, the pollsters
voted the Cornhuskers No. 1. What
makes it worse is that because of the
bowl alliances, Penn State and Ne-
braska could both go undefeated
and not meet for the national title,
like in 1994.

This madness has got to stop. In
most sports, a team remains cham-
pion until it is beaten. Margin of
victory and quality of play counts

for nothing. But not in Division 1
football. While Nebraska and Penn
State may argue over No. 1, teams
like Florida State, North Carolina,
Michigan and Washington State may
wonder why they’re not ranked
higher. The easy solution would be
to eliminate the polls and institute a
playoff system similar to most other
levels of collegiate sports (including
D11 and III football). It would be an
improvement in college basketball.
Again, unlike basketball, Division
1 football has no power poll in place
to detemiine strength of schedule, so
teams are almost encouraged to
schedule non-conference cupcakes
and win brownie points by running
up the score. Coaches like Joe
Patemo who will not annihilate other
teams are usually burned. As knowl-
edgeable about football as the

coaches and writers who vote may be,

the championship should be decided
on the ﬁeld. A 16 or 32 team play-
off over four or ﬁve weeks should
be instituted, along with scaling
back the regular season by one
game.

To make everyone happy, the
bowls could be used to stage the
playoff games. The bowl game to
establish the true, not mythical, na-
tional champion could then be held
every New Year’s day, right after
Game 7 of the World Series.

Beginner Walk Trot
Windy Kimble - 1st
Beginning Walk Trot
Canter

Stacey Parris - 6th
Advanced Walk Trot
Canter

Cassie Shaner — 4th
Intermediate Equitation
on the Flat

Lindsay Gatling - 4th
Intermediate Equitation
over Fences

Christing Starer - 6th

The W&L Riding Team

Results vs. Hollins College

Lindsay Gatling - 4th
Open Equitation on the
Flat ‘

Sarah Rector - 1st
Lydia Nichols — 4th
Britta Gaffey - 4th
Anna Lowden - 6th
Open Equitation over
Fences

Britta Gaffey — 3rd
S'arah Rector - 4th

OVERALL SCHOOL
PLACEMENT - 6th

Results vs. Virginia Tech

Beginner Walk Trot
Windy Kimble - 4th
Beginning Walk Trot
Canter

Stacey Parris - 5th
Advanced WalkTrot
Canter

Cassie Shaner - 3rd
Novice Equitation on
the Flat

Ryan McDaniel - 2nd
Kim Russel - 6th
Novice Equitation over
Fences

Kim Russel - 6th

Intermediate Equitation
on the Flat

Christine Starer - 1st
Lindsay Gatling 5th
Intermediate Equitation
over Fences

Lydia Nichols 2nd
Christing Starer - 3rd
Open Equitation on the
Flat

Sarah Rector - 3rd

Lydia Nichols - 4th

Britta Gaffey - 4th

OVERALL SCHOOL
PLACEMENT - 6th

All

Corbin Suits / Sport Coats
Ruff Hewn - Men’s
Gitman Shirts
Alynn Ties
Woolrich
Northern Isle Sweaters

Parents

Serving Washington 82 Lee Since 1926

Thank You For Your Support

In appreciation - we are offering ,
ALL SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

A Smash Hit!

20% Off
LADIES B

LAZERS

See Our

Ladies Window

f€&fﬂ€t§t

Great Sweaters

The College Town Shop  

 

 

PAGE 7

advertisement

, 1997

OCTOBER 27

§

1

\ \\

yo U if yo  
1-SOOIT E L 

e
b
M

U

0

C
......H.

andabpl

TOWER 

NORTHWEST AIRLINES.......................

THE SHARPER IMAGE

an:nnnuunuuwnpunnuqtqnunn

9.
I
.1
u
I
1
n
I
u
u
-
u
u
u
u
p
.
u
-
n
a
n
n
u
n
n
u
u
.
u
w
I.
.1.

DISCOVER

 

Cash 

bﬂll U000 0000 0000

 

To am omine, go to www.d iscovercard .com

@1997 Greenwood Trust Company. Member_FDfC. ‘Up to 1% paid yeemy based on annual law of pu:chas‘_es.

 

 

 

 

   

 

Q Q  I 9 I f
1 O D I n 9 I n Q 0 r The D ysfunc fional Family Circus
I I l ",3
- Pole Position ;
i I I1 I played a lot of Atari 2600 when I was growing up. 
- I loved those games. Pole Position was the first Atari it
game I owned. I could sit and play for hours, racing '
around the same track six times per game while yellow
PAGE 8  27,  rectangle opponents slid by. =_
.—r,;x,»'/Jvg _ 

We are always §,e‘i Buds ROW
representatives of W&L 

An incident recently came to our attention The games Were dirt simple Pao-Man, Donkey ii
that greatly disturbed us and made us realize Khmlli and (fourngﬁfls °ih°ra gﬁiiliesgresﬁnhed the Slim:

. n e ve over . a

that even when we leave Lexington’ we bear iihraeeepliyers basketball hagd just twdeanad scgiiiiieietiniiiis C
the burden of either holding up or breaking games dldnrlinnve any_ ill,
down the reputation of Washington and Lee. I had just gotten an Atari track ball controller when I

On the drive up Interstate 81 over reading Nintendo Game ei_ong- it Changed eVer>’thing- Games
days’ a group of W &'L Students almost ran one now had levels with different challenges to overcome

at each turn. War games now had real soldiers with I
of our Staff members Off the road‘ They real guns shooting real bad guys. Sports teams started '5
proceeded to weave in an out uncontrollably, to ﬁeld all ofthelr players
almost running everyone else off the road as I found someone in my neighborhood who had a
  passed people on the shoulder and Nintendo and said goodbye t0 the Atari. The Nintendo
came within inches of tractor trailers. games were just better. Although Nintendo meant leav- .
. mg behind my favorite games, it also meant having V

our Staff member lost them for a while’ only more fun I learned to enjoy the new games even more
to see them pulled over on the side of the road, then the old eneS_
urinating in broad daylight. A lot of other people made the switch as well. Al- A

 car was a menace to the road and Could tl’l0I.lgl1 Atari Still has llCS place On the Internet, Nintendo _ . _ . i 
have Very well injured or killed anyone on it. ' :n;lteSr<I:1gadll]il<:gSl1teh:c021fd1<‘:‘.ta'lr‘lie popularity ofthe newer "SO, l Said, take YOU!’  hands offa lllm, he's mine! And
The W&L sticker and a fraternity sticker were y This is why I don7t undersland why so many Wash- the Wench Slapped me!
Droiriiiieiii Oii iiidir Vehicles and anyone driving ington and Lee students don’t like the new network
on Interstate 81 saw that these irresponsible system and Pegasus e-mail. ’ ’‘
young people were Students at W&L_ I know a lot of people who are frustrated with their I h i  a u  i C O n  .

When we leave this campus, we do not cease 2?“; agcess tl° Shﬁrelf and i’::S,"‘:lali) d“"e5'bI 315° k:‘h°w p p g

. oo eo ewoaveno rie ea

to be W&L students. It IS a badge that we feel mail) Pigs is enough for them g Sus ecause ey - I I l g
carry wherever we our travels take us. Last . lt’s the same as the switch from Atari to Nintendo. fo r rocrastl n al] 0 n l u r 0595
year, the White Book Review Committee and The new campus-wide network system has many ad-
the Executive Committee clariﬁed the concept Vaiiteges 0Ver the old sYstem- Now, all students enjoy
of honor outside tho Lexington al~ea_ ‘ :'nrl:iy;rliiil'1:lli;d;:: “’ii° °°“id "59 the Science 5erV°r . In attempts to find copies of The step even beyond their absurd pester- vage the program. The sources of their g

ln Short, if a W&L Student Commits an ’ - _ Ring-Tum Phi or The Trident, many mg of Virginian freshman. But two information are murky at best.
h . 1‘ t. h t h t. You ddii iiidVe i0 °3i'i'Y diskettes aii}’iii0i93 Y0“ iiaVe procrastinating students might have pages into this periodical, it became ap— Liberty includes a number of other

0.n(_)r V10 ‘1 Ion W e_n a , ome or oil vaca 1911’ §’°“r °“'ii  drive i0 Save Your iii°5- ir_Y°“ 53“ 3 iiie parent who wrote it and what it aims articles whichtiyto orient students with

this is grounds for dismissal. The idea behind in the H: drive somewhere on campus, you can get to it was ll is no more than abrllllanl piece the ideas 0fLlbeltarlalllsm_ The articles =
this is that we should always conduct ourselves firiywhere on eempus Without ha‘/mg to deal With an of propaganda. deliberately focus on topics about ,
in an  mariner.  reckless 1nt:)nnedl§.I-y diskette‘ f t . I  tlle Way      members Of Gelleratlon  haVC
drlvln ‘S 0b -0 Sl not an honor V-Olaf , -t epeii ‘rig °ri 3f°“r Pr° e55°r5= Y0“ Cari ri°W “iii in cal was disseminated - anonymously the most concerns and interests, like the
. til ‘:1 u y 1 Ion 1 _Y°“r iiies °ie°rr°iii°aiiY arid have them reiiiriied r° 3'9“ and furtively - completely disturbing. Internet, school choice and the environ- .
is no Onora 6' _ _ _ in the same Wa}’- Professors can Put ﬁles Youlneed In noticed the appearance of a third More profoundly, its content and the merit. Upon reading these articles, it is

Honor should exceed the guidelines of lying, public folders, rather than post them at websites and newspaper on calnpug_ way ll ls presented melts most nnnen,_ obvious where the wrlters stand on g
cheating or stealing and should permeate every require you to download them- You now haVe another Liberty, as it is called, is not a ing aspects. Its purpose is to look like these issues. I
aspect of our liVeS_ Merely the threat of get_ wayrlllo comnflunicate with ‘)1/ourtprofelssors. t W&L publicztion, itsdairival on a newspaper_ Libemlxianisili, in g.ener-a1, demands
t- k- k d t f h l h ld lb th _ eviiew egasiis e‘m3i sYs em 3 soiepreseii s an campus can 6.attI"1 ute to a stu- Newspapers, according to main- Constitutional literalism, and conse-
rleng lcf 6  0 hSC 00  Cu I10 e e 111‘-1pI'O\I6I‘nC'I1t. It has   features Ofplne,  11565 3. den[-run organlzatlonl The polltl- Sn-earn nouns, Should  nonnally do) quently the end ofthe Federal govern- g

ason (_)r ac mg Onora y‘ friendly P°iiii'aiid'°ii°i‘ iiirerriicd ii 5 iiidre like Other cally aware might have already provide information in anunbiased and merit control and inﬂuence over all as- "

Washington and Lee has become a popular Windows programs you would use. It includes some known of the existence of another erlllenl nlannen By using this logical peels of American life_ Republicans
place to apply in past few years, as it becomes Oiiier iiiiPr°Veriieiiis_°Vei Piiie as Well» siicii as aii easier political group besides the Young progression, readers of this periodical find these ideas appealing for obvious
increasingly more dlfﬁcult to get in melznstof dOWl’1l10a(;.l1l‘lg attachments togylour letters.‘ Democrats and College Republi- associated the information in Liberty reasons while l)emocrats are attracted

As we gain more public attention this also Ninlzsn as We 3 ° _8iV° “P 0i" ijiiis 0_ eiiJ0)’ cans on campus. The College Lib- with“truth”wheninreality, it certainly to its laissez-faire attitudetowards gov- ,

. . . ’ do, We haVe i° giVe up our obsessions with “the ertarians have taken it upon them- is not. Since the publisher of Liberty is eminent imposed social values. I
pLltS US I'I'lOI'C 111 the pllbllC llght.  A7614./S and way things were” and the Pitlﬂ e~mail system t0 enjoy selves to engage in forms of ideo- not clearly acknowledged in the peri- HOWCVCI‘, the goals of Libertarian-
     NO. 8   the new Computer Configurations Oln Campus. logical Vvaffare and   odlcal,  exempliﬁes that the purpose ism are contrary to and a Subversive of

arts colleges. D0 Y0“ ihiiii<_iii3i Pine e'm'<1il is good enough for attempts to win members to their l for this publication is to remain secret. the American political and legal tradi-

It’s about time that we starting acting it Y_°“? was Atari r°°rbaiir with i°“r Players ‘iii eiicii Cause. It is obvious that it target audience tion, clearly seen in their position on 3

iide, good enough? Try Pegasus e-mail. Stop playing I admit to procrastinating and is college students. The front page ar- gun control. They demand the repeal
_ Se? Barrie and si3i’i.Pi3Yiiig _C°iiii”3- _Y0ii may eh‘ actually spending time reading this ticle, using Generation X jargon, states: of laws which ban or seek to control
“ Joy if more Besides, if)/011 tr)’ it and decide You don’t publication. Even beyond attempts “Social Security: A Raw Deal.” It uses the sale of weapons to anyone, mean-
like it, you h3Veii t lost an)"th1iig_- to divert my attention away from scare tactics to suggest to its audience ing criminals are Freeman groups as 
uOt€ Of  W€€k: Make the switch, or at least g1Ve the new systems 3 schoolwork, lwas suspicious about that the government has ineptly caused well. Yet this fundamental tenet of Lib-
iryr Ydiil iii:Ybeiil:i iiPAl00l_<ii_ig hack on Pills: thel some the intentions of this newspaper. I the end of Social Security through fis- eitarianism was not included inLiberty.
' ' Way Y0“ 00 39 0“ la“? it Was great W i 9 ii asieda immediately thought that it Was the cal irresponsibility and that a privatized Anyone want to guess why?
  but the newer games are always more fun. work ofthe College Republicans’ a system would be the best way to Sal-
2 I:
two of the urinals. D gt b  ' d k
on 0 er — our arents a rea HOW OU
- controlled drinking experiment participant  y p y y
If your parents bring you a gift-wrapped bottle of Jim 0 Make dinner reservations... for next year. less, except for one minor detail, like forgetting to "3
" ~ 0 Beam and dance at a band party until the cops break it up, The chances of finding a table at a restaurant in sweep the dust off your unused history books. Either ' \
   Parents’ Weekend is the perfect weekend for you. Of Lexington that doesn’t have a drive-thru window are way, your parents will mock your feeble attempt, so .
, course, if your dad has an afﬂnity for knee-high striped slim to none, so go to Roanoke or Staunton. If you don't worry about it.
Exeucifve Editors Courtney Miller socks and ﬂoral shirts, then you may be searching right enjoy talking to your parents, it’s anice chance to catch 0 Be honest with your parents. ll '
Managing Edgar ‘lI{"i:l‘;"ryZ::°0':)°n"bs now for a light ﬁxture sturdy enough to hang yourself up. If not, it’s a long enough trip to enjoy a nap. Don't waste your time trylng to convince your par- .
Ame,-we Edge, Andrea Ewing from.  0 Don’t bother cleaning up for your parents. ents that you spend every night in the library study-
  rom  '  Remember, you grew up with your parents, and ing until 2 a.m. (However, if you do study in the li-
News Editor K_athrYn Mayurnik  9’/'  21 ar 00 . they remember if you were a slob or not. Parents brary every night until 2 a.m., please go out this week-
‘”&i’f9 E‘r”°’5 %Zrl’h°i(‘;°r'am »..../gg, El-lc swensen 98 can smell a last-minute cleanup from miles away. end in order to spare this university’s fine party repu- I
Oplrm-on & Edllon-a, Ed,-,0, Frances Gmberg But if they can smell your dirty clothes from miles tation.) Sooner or later, no matter how much you beg,
Sports Editor John Stewart Most parents fall somewhere in between these two ex- away, it might be a good idea to do a little cleaning cajole or bribe your friends, they will let it slip about V
A gap)’ gjiror Clill Woolley tremes, and most students have similarly mixed emotions anyway. the time they found you slumped over a toilet, passed 
ssl. opy ’ itor Holly Estes P W k _ - G ll ll h l _ - l - 9 b cl 11- k_ 5
           r
n ine itor Tom Wadl ' ' ’ ’ ' '
ow age D-hall delicacy, but then again, didn't we spend 18 is so spotless that your parents immediately figure Show your parents that college parties aren’t 
‘Business Manager Rebecca Cuny years waiting to get out from under their thumbs? To help out that this is the only time all year you’ve cleaned drunken orgies filled with loud music. On the other 
C'::Z:‘;’r'$r’:”£;’§:: lililflltgilszvgcrztlifl you cope this weekend, here are some handy suggestions. your room. In the second case, your room is spot- hand, maybe you should just tell them to stay home. f
Asst. Advertising Editor Steven Klotz ' ,I
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during

the undergraduate school t W h’ gt d -

Lee University, Lexington,\ii::i'rnila. lﬁaisridilngifblriinhe  are you golng to be for Halloween?

Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and j

subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee  3

Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and

Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phiis otherwise

independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible

submissions and letters. All submissions must be

in the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center,

by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition.

The Ring-tum Phi’ reserves the right to edit

sybmissions for content and length. Letters,

columns and "My Views" do not reﬂect the opinion

of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its

staff. This newspaper observes current court

deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
wa§§i‘gt°” “Gil L-‘ii U§$3r°s’§“y “ ' h ” “B 1k‘ ” “C ' Larry ” tr - =r »
Tel:l)nrlg(§p1rer,(51:g)1)I1;6g2_406O Gansta Bitc es. a ie. ousin . A Roman Princess 
il:j,):li,$,4gl,:i(,§,f,l:_oe:?, - Jenny Webb & -Riley Greene ’0O -Jack Alford ’00 -Heather Schweninger ’97,§
Lora Ellison ’0O

 

l

  

CCFOBER 27, 1997

 Lettersto The Ring-tum Phi

1‘? c‘om'in"g ¢utn is a lifetime thing dents in Virginia, attend an all-women’s college for
 ‘   , * . ’ I , its educational beneﬁts. Not, as insinuated by the
. i—Editqr;’s_nore.- ’ The author wished tharthis letter be author, for the weekend hook-ups or even the slan-
prin, d n0ctobér 11, National Coming Out Day, The der from other females who attend co-ed institu-
Ietfe aﬁrotideliveredto our oﬂice until this past week. ti0115- It has been PT°V"-11 in Study after Study that
ypyg »ap“o'1io'g”'izeﬁ;,-. any inconvignence this might have women who attend single-sex colleges are more
‘at r 1’ = : - — likely to attend graduate school, earn a more com-
1' petitive salary, andtalre on upper-level management
positions with greater ease. From all these beneﬁts,
I elected to not be surrounded by men seven days a
[week and atterulllo " S College,‘ of . which I am a
proud resident; I,frlid‘_rtot;elegt to attend Hollins and
sit in a sociallc ~.foui7-years either.
'1 S 1' heifrtjicle the author
‘ts: .é;1.1;-fs=ma.1..e 291-

  
  
 
   

     
 
  
 
 
       
  

 

Father. . I am a Gay Grandfather. I I am
 ‘of W&LeClass of ’53. I am a
umatiilséihgl  .     I 1 -   I
o’r’rr1e V V

coming out not and has not been a
"ng.’It is andtshallgcontinue to be a A
thing VThe,proce‘oss' consistsgof an endless _
b t ' ..Eac steptaken contributes to
 stair-*wo‘r’ai; and most‘ _

   
    
 
  

  
   

     

 

      
     

 

an tpairticuliirly-_, 15 National Coming Out ’" J
 tall and erect in front of afmirror,  V,
'‘d¢l>.thS.i°f.iI1Y-.€Y€Si3tllli15fesliﬁgthgg ; —. ..
tours f my face with my 'ﬁrigers_and the  of L 
hands,-and -with heartfelt Prideand Humility. ‘ A I 
ei e»re:_flected.back:. r_-   f _ _ ,1  .j   :

   
 

 
 

. ii?  ‘fzir Tit  T  __

  
     
 
  

    

 

 

W8; W mejn-'1narrow-iiniintlded. _

‘iiiiién'ti‘6-niiigi I-‘i‘Rioad“ ‘

   
     

   

 ,  _ . , , , _ spend timewith us,"‘inlorally-upstanding‘womeiif: 
.9.-‘F15’ 3.t3e.nt1°.11 T4151 We-,e1E§.“E1_VV1..‘}1§-’ .Ho1linsstudents_have7a;ld,t;to?offer-tofotlieizworrient.1.

‘ University College, Oxford
&
‘ Washington and Lee University

Student Exchange Program  

I It has recently been determined that
Washington and Lee’s student exchange
program with University College, Oxford,
i will continue to operate, although areas
of study supported by University College
will be more limited than in the past.

Professor Carl Kaiser
Williams School of Commerce
Room 313
463-8617

‘Rising juniors who are interested
in this program may contact:

- editorial 8: opinion

 

PAGE 9

Microsoft satellites, Bill Gates,
and the Jefferson server

The new network. Just mention-
ing it can turn students and faculty
alike into Jell-O. Stand on that spe-
cial spot in front of Lee Chapel, and
not only will you hear someone in
front of Washington Hall talk, you’ll

  

. josh Heslinga ’98

hear voices all over campus asking
things like: “I put my Net where?”
and “Isn’t it ironic that Jefferson is
slowly eliminating Liberty?”

Take this simple true/false test to
see if you too have an acute case of
network-itis.

l) DVA stands for the new Digital
Video Adapter that you can use from
any networked computer.

2) Jefferson is just the ﬁrst step to
the REALLY powerful servers,
Hamilton and Adams, which come
on-line next year.

3) All you really need to know to
use the new network is your name,
class year, and any word over ﬁve let-
ters long.

4) In exchange for switching the
campus to Windows 95, Bill Gates
bought W&L a super-secret satellite
capable of locating and electronically
tagging students who forget to log out.

As you might guess, the ﬁrst, sec-
ond, and fourth statements are false.
DVA stands for Dirk van Assendelft,
a man you should get to know well,
as he is the new student network ad-
ministrator and your ﬁrst resource if
you forget your Jefferson password.

Second, while the faculty will soon
have a server similar to Jefferson
named Madison, reliable sources say
the rumors of more centralized Fed-
eralist computers to be run out of a
secret room in the Commerce school
are totally unfounded.

Finally, any of you following the
news would know that Bill Gates’ spy

satellites observe Janet Reno, not
W&L students.

It might surprise you that the third
statement is true. Buy some ﬂash
cards, memorize your name, class
year, and password of your choice,
and you can login successfully.

Hopefully, everyone knows how to
login as themselves after two months.
Those of you that have been using the
guest login actually do need to login
as yourself now, since the guest login
has been severely limited in number
and capabilities.

Speaking of passwords, if you
know your password but want to
change it, you can from any non-lab
network computer. Use a friend’s
personal computer (in any dorm
room) or stop by the HelpDesk in
Tucker Hall. Choose Start, Run, and
then type “setpass” in the box. Once
you’re logged in, everything becomes
easier. You don’t care about new fea-
tures? Fine. Just choose Liberty or
Netscape from the Start Menu, and
nothing’s new.

What good is all this new stuﬁ‘?
Remember when you had to be in a
certain lab to use one of 20 university
hard drives? Now there are only three
network drives, available in any pro-
gram across campus, and almost all
programs can be used from any lab.

The H (or Home) drive points to a
“home” directory that’s your personal
space. To create a web page, just cre-
ate a directory called public_htrnl and
save all of your web ﬁles there. People
can then access your page at http://
student. wlu. edu/-youmame/.

You should save your main page as
index.htrn, the default ﬁle for the Web
address above. Since you can save di-
rectly to the H drive from any program,
using Jefferson for your Web page
eliminates the cumbersome FTP pro-
cess necessary on Liberty.

You can also save other ﬁles to your
home directory on the H drive and stop

carrying a ﬂoppy disk. Be careful —
there is a limit of about seven mega-
bytes here. If you try to store large
sound ﬁles of Obi Wan Kenobi’s ad-
vioe, you’ll run out of space quickly.

The K (or Shared) drive is open
space. Need your friend to proof-read
that ftmd-raising letter to female alumni
from Alaska who played lacrosse? Just
put it here, and he can open it, change
it, or copy it from any computer on the
network. One word of caution: this isn’t
long-terrn storage. The K drive is de-
leted about once a week.

The L (or Work) drive is for class
work. Techno-sawy professors can set
up a class directory and save assign-
ments for you. Note: if the assignment
will take time to do, save it to a ﬂoppy
disk or your home directory ﬁrst. Once
it’s saved to the L drive, you’ve turned
it in. And there’ s no way for your ﬁiend
with arms like an anorexic gorilla to pull
it out of your professor’s electronic in-
box.

What else is new? Each lab has la-
ser printers you can use at 10 cents a
page from Netscape, WordPerfect, or
whatever. You even get $20 from the
University to start out. (If you multi-
ply $20 by the number of students at
W&L, it amounts to one person’s yearly
tuition increase.) You can check your
balance when logged in by moving the
mouse over the little dollar sign in the
bottom right comer.

There’s also Pegasus e-mail, which
lets you cut and paste, not to mention
send and receive e-mail attachments.
There is a limit on the size of e-mails
that pass through Jefferson, so you must
exchange large ﬁles via the Shared
drive. When you’re done, just choose
Start, Shut Down, and then Restart the
Computer.

Finally, remember the most impor-
tant thing: if you have problems, dial
the HelpDesk at XHELP. All they’ve
ever wanted to do with their lives is help
people. Give them a chance.

    

    NIGHT owt. MUSIC 
xington's orginal, RL altentie msi stop.

25 S. Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va 24450
, Between The Palms
 & Domino's Pizza

Open 11 a.m. ‘till 7 p.m.
Monday—Friday
11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Saturday

   
 
  
 
 
 

464-4050

NEW & USED
 COMPACT DISCS
fCASSETTES & LPs

Order by e—mai|: nightowl@rockbridge.net

Night Owl will match
(if we don't already beat)
any downtown CD store's
sale price on any item!

Error

 

Ask for our chef,
Mike Goff

See our website at http://Wwwwebfeat-inc.com/sheridanlivery
55 North Main Street —- Call for reservations 464-1887

Welcome

Porenls

Célleoliam
die/pa//uyacca/siorv
an/a/z/a#s4Lte

ii 

llilllllllllllllillﬁ

A r\-=l()Rl ( Rffllll

\= f »‘\PPR(_.)»\C.ll

 

lNonh Mo Steel

‘n
lexinglo ,\/llllllll

Open |\/lon—So’r. 10-6

Limited Edition Civil War
and W&L Prints

Specializing in Museum Quality Framing

 

 

PAGE 10

 
 

By Kzitliiyniyumik
X—l'ile< ”‘I‘l'€S[)0n(lI

Lastyear, my roommate broke her nose. I think she wanted
me to take her to the hospital, but she ended up walking to
Stonewall Jackson in the snow. The fact ofthe matter was that
this was in the middle of Super Bowl Sunday-—Super Bowl
Sunday’s episode ofthe X-files, that is. And I wasn’t about to
miss seeing the freak who can regenerate .his entire body and
afterwards bathes in tubs ofiodine.

OK. I know it’s a little psycho to be that obsessed with a TV
show, but I assure you that I’m not alone. The X-Files, and
shows like it, are becoming a national pastime. Science fiction
used to be reserved for
socially inept people
whose entire wardrobe
consists of Mr. Spock
T-shirts, but it has now
infiltrated the main-
stream population. Our
society in general has
becomes obsessed with
little green men with
big heads and big eyes,
and government con-
spiracy. At Six Flags
Great Adventure this
summer, the most popular prizes were I0-foot ﬂuorescent green
aliens in black cloaks.

And think about the some of the past year’s most popular
movies: “Independence Day,” “The Arrival,” and “Contact.” I
call this the “millenium syndrome.” Because the end of the
century looms before us, people are becoming more and more
fascinated with and paranoid about the supernatural. By the year
2000, Washington and Lee students will be suspecting that Pro-
fessor Brian Richardson is an alien from Vulcan.

And then there’s the phenomenon of science fiction actors.
Miraculously, they appear in other freaky shows after they’ve
been cancelled. David Duchovany, X-files FBI agent and babe,
played a transvestite FBI agent on the most bizarre show of all
time, “Twin Peaks.” Four other “Twin Peaks” veterans have
made token appearances on the “X-Files” including the dwarf
who danced and spoke in really messed upjargon. He appeared
in an episode that I saw last night, along with a man who was
covered in jigsaw puzzle tattoos and ate live animals.

Next week is the much-anticipated conclusion of last season’s
ﬁnale ofthe “X-Files.” It also happens to be the night that we
lay-out the Phi. I know what my priorities are.

9 The pitch: “lt’||
be like ‘Harvey’
meets ‘The
Birdcage.”’

 
     

  

 

  

By Alex Christensen
——-————P/ii Movie Critic

Boy, if nothing else has ever driven it home to me, “In &
Out” sure did: tailoring any work of ﬁction to a political view-
point sucks all the life out of it. I should have known before.

And I’ll take almost any try at comedy over “In & Out.”
Sure, it has its moments, but overall, the tone ofthe film is one
of nervousness. You can actually conjure up images of one of
the most talented screenwriters around, Paul Rudnick (“Addams
Family Values,” “Jeffrey”), sitting at his laptop thinking, “How
far will Hollywood go?” Instead ofusing that guideline to push
the limits, as he might have done to some effect, he has let it
keep the film from saying anything much at all, and also cut
away most ofthe real drama and humor that the film’s situation
would seem to suggest are ripe for exploitation.

In case you don’t know, the situation ofthe film is based on
the real—life Oscar acceptance speech made by Tom Hanks af-
ter his first win, for “Philadelphia.” In it, he thanked some of
his gay teachers by name. The makers of “In & Out” recog-
nized a great premise when they heard it, you’ve got to give
them that much. Their inspiration was to ask what might hap-
pen ifa teacher was outed who wasn’t out, maybe not even to
himself. So we have the story of Howard Brackett (Kevin Kline),
outed in a similar way by his former student, Cameron Drake
(Matt Dillon) just a few days before Howard’s planned mar-
riage to his girlfriend Emily (Joan Cusack). Though Brackett
denies being gay, he is finally forced to confront the truth after
being dogged by questions from tabloid reporters, including
the openly gay Peter Malloy (Tom Selleck).

So Rudnick sits down. with a bunch of 3x5s and starts free-
associating. “What would be great movie scenes we’ve never
seen before?” And, oh, he has a bunch ofideas. Spoof the Os-
cars. A Kline-Selleck kiss. Drama at the altar. Bing, bing, bing,
the ideas are coming like sausages off the conveyor belt. Un-
fortunately, because of the way he thinks he has to write the
movie for Hollywood to accept it, he knows he can’t get at any
truth. He has to skim the surface, go for easy conﬂicts and situ-
ations, and, in the process, he doesn’t write in a main character.

And that’s the main problem. The politics preclude creating
a three-dimensional main character, the necessary ingredient
for any successful dramatic enterprise, up to and including a
broad farce, which “In & Out” wants to be. That’s why it fails.
Howard Brackett is a cipher. Not a Capra-esque everyman or a
comedy-of—errors scapegoat-a-cipher. The humor of such a char-
acter lies in his being able to deceive himself for so long and
then suddenly being able to “discover” he’s gay without hardly
even blinking. It’s essentially a Jimmy Stewart role, Theodore
Honey of “No Highway in the Sky” or Elwood P. Dowd of
“Harvey.” But the Brackett ofthe ﬁlm has no comic depth with
which successfully to pull off this kind of non-transformation
transformation, which would trigger the comedy. And it’s not
Kevin Kline’s fault. He has nothing to work with except his
physicality, which he uses to full effect. Rudnick just hasn’t
been willing to let the audience feel Howard’s pain, to coin a
phrase, and so no one else in the film can respond honestly,
either. He thinks it would be too uncomfortable-for Hollywood,
for mainstream moviegoers. He’s wrong.

Still, there are many things to like about the film. In general,
the supporting performances are top-knotch. SeIleck’s likabiI-
ity and magnetic screen presence bring to his character a weight
lacking in any of the others. Selleck and Kline’s kiss is a won-
derful moment all the way around. Joan Cusack steals nearly
every scene she is in, especially her inspired breakdown se-

quence at the wedding. Bob Newhart and Debbie Reynolds are

also standouts, as the school principal and Howard’s
mother, respectively.

All in all, “In & Out” is a good time at the movies. There are
enough laughs to keep you in your seat and there’s enough good-
heartedness to leaven the tiiiiidity, but there’s not nearly enough
honesty and wit. Watch it, but then go rent “Beautiful Thing.”

 

 

Q

OCTOBER 27, 1997 T

I)’ 0 ii  :1‘ R0 b i n’s‘ 7
)‘ ,est_aurant
A ievlews .

  

_ Parents’ Weekend means shopping, parent’s ques-
tions, and eating out with mom and dad.

We have quickly become. familiar with the best
(and worst) dining options in the Lex Vegas area,
and thus we proudly present a brief list of sugges-
IIOIISI. Doug and Robin’s “Parents’ Weekend Great-
est Hits.”

A For varied fare, we suggest the Sheridan Livery
Inn, conveniently located downtown. Dinner meals
typically include salad and bread, and entree options
range from the delightful spinach chicken with pesto
to steaks and seafood.

The dessert menu offers delicious choices, and
the Inn boasts a subdued atmosphere, with soft mu-
sic and the soothing sounds ofa fountain.

_ If you seek a boisterous atmosphere, you might
investigate the options at the Palms. In addition to

_ sandwiches and drinks, the Palms has several delec-

table entrees, including the excellent filet mignon and
tasty seafood dishes.

Robin recently tried the chicken stir fry: a spicy,
hearty dish with a choice of baked potato, mashed
potatoes or vegetable on the side.

The Palms is also an excellent place for your par-
ents to meet with you and your friends later in the
evening for cocktails.

Oh, the places you’ll
go with parents in tow

The Southern Inn offers good food within easy walk-
ing distance. Under new ownership since last fall, the
restaurant has changed its offerings and improved its qual-
ity dramatically. The soups, salads and appetizers are
excellent beginnings for any meal.

An expanded entree menu is available on weekends;
the crispy chicken, barbecue pork chops and steak are
among our favorites, but there are many additional op-
tions. Portions are extremely generous, and the staff is
friendly and helpful.

Maple Hall offers fine dining if you are willing, or
able, to make the drive out past Lee—Hi on Route 1 I. For
big weekends the restaurant typically‘ offers a special
menu with three to four entree options.

Salad and dessert are included with each choice, and
the atmosphere is extremely elegant.

Prices exceed those at most in-town options, but the
experience promises to be memorable. We suggest ad-
vance reservations.

If none of these options pique your interest, venturing
outside the Metro Lexington area is an excellent option,
whether to Staunton, Roanoke, or elsewhere.

The big thing to keep in mind is to avoid the unknown;
your parents are paying, have them take you somewhere
that you know and love. For all the good places to eat in
Lexington, there are two more that are bad.

  
 

S€V€l’l

ONDAY ‘iv’ & TUESDAY 3 p.m. Uncle Vanya in the
Johnson Theater WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY nothing

24“

as interesting as the bands this weekend FRIDAY Q}

EX has Doug Clark; ZN jams with Doxy’s Kitchen; ZAE has

 

l"¥.i'E‘§u":'r“;:l$‘t’=.a‘f:.F '\'‘ﬁI§l.‘l‘1'I—. .. =‘~“f;.5,I.!1I7§§-v:'

Parents’
Weekend

Voltage Brothers; X‘I’—Right On
KA-Doug Clark; K2-The Convertibles; (DAT-Midnight Mov-

SATURDAY

ers; CDKZ-Blues Jones; I'IK<D—R&B All Stars; <DK‘I’-TFC

IF YOU THINK CARRYING A BRIEFCASE
5 IS WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT.

ii‘.

SEE IF YOU HAVE WHAT IT

TAKES TO CARRY THIS.”

/t’s tough work to become a /eader in the corporate wor/d. it's even tougher to be a /eader
in our company. it takes strength, wisdom and determination. These aren't easy characteristics
to develop. But if you’re willing to try, then Officer Candidates School (OCS) 0
is your chance to perfect these ski//s and become an Officer of /\/Iarines. See
if you've got what it takes to carry the title — United States /\/Iarine Officer. 77ieR:w;71u-I’mud.Th¢-Mm-ines-.

MARINE OFFICER

If you qualify for our program you will not have to start at the bottom of the
corporate ladder. See Capt. Walker or Gysgt. Hebert at the University
Bookstore between 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. on 28 Oct. or call 1-800-542-5851.

 
 

COROLLA

 
 

THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLE THINGS LIKE
THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER THE PAST 30 YEARS,
I OROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
ARS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT‘S ALL-NEW...WITH
H ORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
I LUMINUM ENGINE THAT‘S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER

GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA IS SAFER AND

 

Colonnade Club.

Hollister Hovey

    

,-{9Wl2E’THI3P¥-T} we wow» -\
M? ?‘2MBM?76iZ~ I/MIT ‘/EAIZIII.

   

.| -\  “ .

 

r-zti

o(o\

I2-E/W)’ F0?‘
401*/IE Moria}!

  

 
 
 

QUIETER, AND BEST OF ALL. IT STARTS
AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
MONEY. WHAT A
REFRESHING
’ CHANGE!

 

 

TOYOTA oi/oicqolaq

 
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  

  

 

wsﬁwé

i

K

P.

K

I.

4.

4..

k

,1.

A

 

 

   

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 6

Phi Eta Sigma members offer
study tips to students.

PAGE 3

Ultra

 

LAST WORD

 
  
 

Alex Christensen reveals the
secrets of L.A. Confidential.
PAGE8

tug-tum

James  

gets

light
enalty

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK _
—”'—:—_“‘—“"’ NEWS EDITOR

ashington and Lee junior

Elizabeth James escaped

punishment on a felony hit
and run charge when the charge was
reduced to a misdemeanor at her trial
Tuesday.

If James was convicted under her
original charge,» she could have re-
ceived one to ﬁve years in prison
with a minimum of 12 months in jail

, and/or a ﬁne of $2,500. Instead, her
sentence under the misdemeanor
charge was a $50 ﬁne and a $30
court fee. James could not be
reached for comment.

James, who is from San Antonio,
Texas, was charged with hitting
sophomore Dylan Walsh the night of
Sept. 13 with her Volkwagon Bug.
According Walsh, the person who hit
him yelled “sorry” out of the window
and kept on driving. Walsh suffered
minor injuries. Walsh did not return
phone calls from the Phi.

Both James and Walsh had been
drinking, Lexington Police Ofﬁcer
Michael Hess said. However, police
could not determine whether alcohol
played a factor in the accident due to
the 90-minute lapse of time between
the accident and James’s arrest.

sriggm‘

' .' .' II ' '2
s:‘g;g;,;:.g;gs;s  frsrsus /.5553
.

.
R

'21-
? .../5...s.m..'ss...:...... ./ss:.s:s:m5r.s=
x." y? *s*£5s,5s$ss*~ $6 _5 _m:'s' ':
.. ,,. . .
.

2
r 1

5* I.
. ..... ...
..s= .. .  .  g.
§?;.g/’¢.s:5..ssss*. rsﬂrw" $"».'v?’.$.’-$’5;5$
.
.

“*~‘*-‘:::E:::
..

.
.........

wig,  .55.. .:.,;;'¢ ﬁn

, . . . x
,.

u r

......
““=§E3.§§
-~*\\u

..
§:”’”’»£§EE§§‘§§§;’ ~ '
7,¢.~’*/’ . ’ =

\.\\ .3.
\

.5S"§‘*“
\ N \
\‘3¥o‘vt

\\
\\\
N“
N as
V‘. V‘
.
~'-tz:Eit......t '- K
V. ti... W. *.\.!.\.|. .

N\\\\ ~. ~.
~.~s~.~.\3‘.§'.$""""

. «* ;
_,s.... ,.....

.* HI! #5-

\~. w:-*-
:$I.\\.-.§~.%‘
'\N\‘.'.\ 5:‘. __§

ﬁns.

\‘.‘t
\. ti-
‘.
t...
‘ASQ
\ 2
z N -K
at ‘at =: ‘ta
&‘ to
\\K
. R§\\\§%Vt‘
\:l\
K‘.
.
tliiiiﬁffitttttt.
.w.........-.-.

t; .
. .
, , -,. .
. ~.u”
' ’ -§$..ss. . éiésiééiés 334$: * *
3'.-.;rr_.-rz/I 4'.-1.’:/:.;;_Z-.y.g'/J_a _

-.-.-.-. \.

SINGING IN THE RAIN 

- ,,.,.,,, , _. ,  ' . WI’. A dutiful rugby parent sticks it out at Saturday afternoon ’s soggy game.
Sydney 24-12. H orusmz H OVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

The Generals smashed Hampden-

Classof 1999 celebrates 250th in styl

BY HILLARY COOMBS

— MANAGING EDITOR
Hey, juniors, were you jealous when upperclassmen

snapped up all the 1996 Mock Convention commemora-
tive bottles of Jack Daniels Kentucky Whiskey?

Now’s your chance to own an even rarer slice of Wash-
ington and Lee history — a ring produced exclusively for
the 250th class.

This distinctive limited-edition treasure can be yours
for only $275 (women’s styles only).

These commemorative masterpieces are for sale only
to the university’s undergraduate and law classes of 1999.

Call 1-800-355-1145 now to order!

' “To my knowledge, nothing like this has ever been done
before,” said Neil Penick, director of the 250th Obser-
vance. “I can tell you for a fact that it wasn’t done for the
bicentennial class.”

The rings come in yellow or white gold, are set with
the university crest and have the 250th Observance logo

Picking up the pieces:

on the left shank and the proﬁles of George Washington

and Robert E. Lee from the school seal on the right shank.
The idea of a special ring came from the three-member

student committee of the 250th Observance.

“It’s a special occasion,” committee member Nate -

Tencza said. “We thought it would be neat to have
something a little different while still maintaining
tradition.”

The Campus Committee for the 250th Observance
chose Milestone Marketing Inc., a company based
in Exton, Penn., to design and manufacture the com-
memorative rings. Milestone is one of two compa-
nies that come to W&L each year to market their
class rings. '

“We felt that a smaller, local company would give
us something more unique,” Tencza said. “We didn’t
want to just get a generic special-occasion-type
ring.” I

Milestone will take ring orders at the University

Adams moves on after fire

1 , JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
I I MSHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Bridgewater in Par
Weekend mud n
PAGE4

hi

L-EXrNGToN.vA so
I at 199‘?

 
 
  

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
NOVEMBER 3, 1997

anky’s flouts
ire regulations,
gets burned I

BY HILLARY COOMBS
————————— MANAGING EDITOR
The Lexington Fire Department
responded in moments to a Sunday
morning grease ﬁre at Spanky’s Res-
taurant and Delicatessen. Their quick
response wouldn’t have been neces-
sary if the restaurant had complied
with Lexington’s building code.
“Any commercial kitchen must
have a range hood over all its equip-
ment,” said Bill Blatter, Lexington’s
building and zoning administrator.

 Inside should be a chemical tire sup-
pression system.”

Such a system is automatically ac-
tivated by the heat of a grease ﬁre. It
immediately shuts off all appliances
in the kitchen and sprays out a ﬁre
retardant chemical, smothering the
blaze.

“Sometime within last few months
[Spanky’ s] had installed a range hood
without getting a permit,” Blatter said.
“But it didn’t include a ﬁre suppres-
sion system.”

Because Spanky’s was already in’

business when the building code was
enacted, they were initially exempt
from installing such a hood under a
“grandfather clause” written into the
code. However, wherrthe restaurant
installed a new hood, it should have
had a ﬁre suppression system.

“Had they had a ﬁre suppression
system, the ﬁre should have been out
before we got there,” said John
Mutispaugh, the ﬁre department’s in-
vestigator. “As it was we ended up
having to put the ﬁre out with dry
chemical extinguishers.”

Mike Ogier, Spanky’s manager,
refused to comment on the
restaurant’s failure to comply with the
building code.

He did explain what happened
Sunday.

“It was a normal day,” Ogier said.
“I came in and turned everything on
and went to the restroom. When I
came back, the fryer was on fire.”

Ogier called 911, then grabbed a
ﬁre extinguisher and tried to put the
ﬁre out.

“It was lucky that [the ﬁre depart-
ment] did get here as soon as they
did,” Ogier said. “Otherwise we might
have lost more equipment.”

The ﬁre started around 8:45 a.m.
The ﬁre department arrived Spanky’s
by 8:50 a.m. and had the ﬁre out soon
afterward.

The exact cause of the ﬁre is un-
known.

“The manager said they had been
having trouble with deep fryer,”
Mutispaugh said. “Whether it shorted
and caught the grease on ﬁre, I don’t
know.”

The ﬁre. damaged two 220-volt
lines electric lines in the kitchen and
three 110-volt lines going to various
appliances, and did an unknown
amount of damage to one panel box.

The fryer and a toaster were de-
stroyed. The toaster has already been
replaced. A new fryer has been or-
dered. According to Ogier, the fryer
that caught ﬁre was new and had only
been installed about two months ago.

Mutispaugh had not ﬁnished. the
fire report and was unable to make an
estimate on the cost of the damage to
Spanky’s.

Spanky’s was allowed to reopened
Ti1esdayat5 p.m afterinstalling aﬁre
suppression system and repairing the
damaged wiring. Blatter inspected
both, but did not cite the restaurant for
violating the building code.

' “In trying to understand what hap-
pened, I don’t feel there was any will
deceive me about it,” Blatter said. “It
was a misunderstanding, and [the ci-
tation] wouldn’t have stood up. I
didn’t feel it was worth the eﬁbrt.”

Spanky’s was closed for lunch and
dinner on Sunday and Monday and
lunch on Tuesday. Ogier estimates the
restaurant lost approximately $6,000

GD SEEFIREPAGE2

e Cancer forces

BY ERIKA PRossER
"“:‘—“** STAFF WRITER

Yesterday marked the ﬁve-week
anniversary of the day Assistant En-
glish Professor Adams’ house burned
down.

Adams had lived for several
years in the house, which was built
by Washington and Lee students in
the 1960s. The ﬁre started around
1 pm. on Sunday, September 28. It
was probably caused by electrical
problems, but investigators told
Adams that the house had been so
badly damaged that the cause was

“hard to ﬁgure out.”

Two days before the ﬁre, Adams’s
application for a loan for a new home
had been approved. He lived with col-
leagues for a few weeks, then ﬁnally
moved into his new home on Jack-
son Street last Thursday. His new
house was designed by famous archi-
tect Frank Lloyd Wright.

Adams lost valuable material for
his second academic book project in
the fire, but has already [begun
reaquiring the research and returning
to the project.

Adams has stayed busy with other

work. Over the weekend of Oc-
tober 25, he attended a conference
in Waco, Texas, where a great
collection of Browning works is
kept. He also visited the Branch

Davidian compound and brought

back a piece of wood from the
rubble. He later joked that he

sympathized slightly with David

Koresh’s losses after suffering
from his own fire.

Adams lost most of his clothes
and belongings in the fire. “It
would be unseemly for me to talk
about how in debt I am,” he said.

Bookstore on Nov. 5 and 6 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
The company will sell its usual line of W&L class
rings as well as the commemorative ring.

“We thought [the commemorative ring] was a
great idea only in that it was another option,” Penick
said. “In other words, we didn’t want to shove this
down anyone’s throat.”

Both companies offer an interest-free installment
payment plan, and rings can also be ordered through
the mail or over the phone.

“The 250th is going to be celebrated in so many
ways: big public celebrations, visiting dignitaries
and parties,” Penick said. “This is one of the most
important commemorative items because it’s lim-
ited.”

Penick said all profits from the sale of the 250th
Observance ring will go to Milestone. The univer-
sity and the Committee on the 250th Observance will
not receive any proceeds from the sales.

 

THE 250TH OBSERVANCE class ring is available
only to the law and undergraduate classes of I 999.
HOI.LlSER H0 VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

projectionist to
surrender hobby

BY SARAH MELDRUM

STAFF WRITER

A small group of students found the Troubadour the-
ater empty and dark when they went to see “Looking for
Richar ” Friday, Sept. 26. They were among the few that
hadn’t heard the news that all ﬁlm screenings were can-
celed. Floyd Lynch, the ﬁlm society’s projectionist, has
cancer, and is no longer able to enjoy his favorite hobby.

“He’s a terminal patient under hospice care,” said his
wife, Dora Lynch. “I'm fortunate I have a daughter-in-
law who is a registered nurse.”

Mrs. Lynch’s daughter-in-law has greatly helped care
for her husband, who otherwise would have gone to a
nursing home.

Lynch is former head of data processing for the carpet
division of Burlington Industries. He loved being a pro-
jectionist.

“It was his paying hobby,” said Mrs. Lynch.

Lynch was so proﬁcient at operating the projection
system that there was no choice but to cancel the screen-
ings.

“The projection equipment is very complicated,”
Film Society President Marisa Frost said. “That ma-
chine is such a monster, and would be too much to
explain to a student.”

“He was your regular sweet older guy,” Frost
said. “He always came down before the shows to
chat and share his opinion of the ﬁlm.”

“We will really miss having him at the screen-
ings,” Meredith Welch, vice-president of the film
society, said. “His commentaries on the films were
always very enlightening.”

Film society screenings resume with “Looking

(D SEE HOBBY PAGE 2

 

 

NOVEMBER 3, 1997

=5

  I1€WS_
Computer Iogins

get face-I ift
Changes are more than cosmetic

BY JOSHUA Hi‘:r.LiNoA
SPECIAL TO THE RING-TUM PHI

Over the past few days, University Computing installed a new
program that will improve the network login process.

The new program, named SFLogin 95, allows students in computer
labs to log into to the W&L network by typing their user-ID alone,
instead of having to enter their class year after their user-ID.

This change does more than improve appearance. SFLogin 95
uses a search process to automatically identify the full network con-
text, or user group, of each user. This eliminates the need for the class
year and allows faculty to use lab machines without remembering their
network context.

SFLogin 95 improves network security too. It erases the last user
from the screen, so the machine’s next user can’t identify the previous
user. By automatically routing each user to his or her group, it also
makes administrative systems off-limits to those without access privi-
leges.

Finally, SFLogin 95 integrates the login process with Windows 95.
Computers will no longer tell students that they have not logged on at
that machine before or display other annoying messages.

This upgrade marks an effort by University Computing to make the
dent Computing Coordinator said. “I know it makes some minor adjust-
ments but it makes the login process simpler and quicker.”

Van Assendelft cautioned students to pay attention to the change. Re-
peated efforts to enter a class year in SFLogin 95 can interfere with a
student’s ability to login successfully.

“The first time you enter your year, it ignores it,” he said. “But if you
insist on it, you will have problems logging in.”

So far, students seem to have mixed reactions to the latest change.

When informed of SFLogin 95’s new features, junior Dan Hilley said
simply, “Sweet.” 3

Others displayed cases of technological whiplash. “As soon as we un-
derstand the procedure, they change it,” said Elizabeth Richey, a junior.

Computers in Newcomb, Leybum, Reid, and the Commerce School all
received the upgrade to lntranetware and SFLogin 95. The Science Center
and Gaines labs will get the upgrades soon.

Due to licensing restrictions, SFLogin 95 is not available for students
on their personal computers.

FIRE

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

OPEN AUDITIONS FOR CRIMES OF THE HEART,
ALL ARE WELCOME

The W&L Theater Department will be holding open auditions for the winter term pro-
duction of Beth Hen1ey’s comedy “Crimes of the Heart.”

Auditions are Tues., Nov. 4 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. There are parts
available for four women and two men, and all are invited to audition. Scripts may be
borrowed from the Theatre Department secretary (463-8001).

Directed by J .D. Martinez, Crimes of the Heart is a warm-hearted, zany and bril-
liantly imaginative story about the plight of three young Mississippi sisters betrayed
by their passions.

TICKETS ON SALE FOR RICHMOND BALLET, $3 FOR‘
W&L COMMUNITY

The Lenfest Series at W&L will open its season with the Richmond Ballet on Nov. 10
and 1 1 at 8 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. Tickets are sale now at the Lenfest Box Office (463-
8000). '

The program features two dance masterpieces of the twentieth century. George
Balanchine’s Concerto Barocca, set to Bach’s Concerto in D minor for two violins and John
Butler’s Carmen Burana, set to the stirring music of Carl Orff. Tickets are $3 for students,
faculty and staff.

UNIVERSITY-SHENANDOAH SYMPHONY ORCHES-
TRA OPENS SEASON NOV. 8

The W&L University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra will open its 1997-98 season
with a performance on Sat., Nov. 8, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. Jose Ferreira Lobo from
Porto, Portugal, will be the guest conductor. The concert is open to the public, free of
charge, but tickets are required.

The program includes music by Tchaikovsky, Mendelssohn and Dovark. The repertoire
for the 70-piece ensemble this year will include performance of the Symphony in D minor
by French composer Cesar Franck, a performance of Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue by the
world-renowned Romanian pianist Mihai Ungureanu, and ﬁlm music by Max Steiner.

DAVIS MERRITT TO BE KEYNOTE SPEAKER FOR
JOURNALISM ETHICS INSTITUTE

to $8,000 in revenue.

French fries will be the only things missing from the menu while Spanky’s
waits for its new fryer to arrive. Although many of the restaurant’s other
appetizers are usually deep-fried as well, Ogier says they will be prepared by
other methods.

Ogier was the only person in Spanky’s at the time of the ﬁre. He was
treated for smoke inhalation at Stonewall Jackson Hospital and released.

®HOBBY

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

for Richard” on Nov. 7 and 8 at 7:30 p.m. Carol Calkins, University
Center Coordinator, organized the search for a new projectionist.
The efforts yielded local resident Todd Owens and Andrew Martin.
Owens will be the head projectionist and Martin will be the backup.
They will show “Everyone Says I Love You” the next weekend and
“In the Company of Men” Dec. 5 and 6.

“Koyla,” the last film that Lynch projected, was a good movie for
his final showing, the Lynches agreed.

“It was such a wonderful movie,” Mrs. Lynch said.

Davis Merritt, senior editor of The Wichita Eagle, will be the keynote speaker for W&L’s
24th annual Institute on the Ethics of Journalism Nov. 7-8. Merritt will give a public lecture
on Fri., Nov. 7 at 4:30 p.m. on “Disconnecting from Detachment: Six Arguments for an
Ethic of Journalistic Purposefulness.” The lecture will be given in Room 327 of the Will-
iams School of Commerce.

The Journalism Ethics Institute is part of W&L’s program in applied ethics and
Society and the Professions, which brings nationally recognized scholars to the cam-
pus to engage in classroom and public discussions on ethics in the ﬁelds of law, medi-
cine, business andjoumalism.

W&L ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES SERIES PRESENTS
TALK BY H.T. ODUM

Howard T. Odum, graduate research professor emeritus in environmental engineering at
the University of Florida, will speak at W&L on Tues., Nov. 11, at 7:30 p.m. Odum will
speak on “Environmental Resources and the Limits to Infonnation.” The talk will be in the I
Leybum Library’s Northern Auditorium and is open to the public. Odum is the fonner
director of the Center for Wetlands in Florida. He has assembled a wide body of research on
ecology. ecological economics and environment engineering. His recent work discusses
“energy” as a way of accounting for ﬂows into and out of a system, such as a river or
wetland. -

The Envionmental Studies Program at W&L has been established at W&L to raise aware-
ness of the environment with activities such as guest speakers and colloquia.

This Week’s Weather:

ALUMS SPEAK ABOUT SEXUAL ASSAULT EXPERI-
Wednesday I

ENCES THURSDAY

W&L alums Lyrae van Clief-Stafanon and Betsy Kleiner will share their personal stories
of coping with sexual assault Thursday at 7 p.m. in Science Center Room A214. Men and
women are invited to come and listen and talk about the roles of communications and re-
spect in gender relations. The event is sponsored by LIFE, Women’s Forum and Chi Psi. A,
reception will follow afterwards.

Thursday

Sunday

Saturday

          

High: 62°
Low: 40°

High: 54°
Low: 30°

High: 54°
Low: 43°

58°
Low: 38°

High: High:

Low:

60°
38°

 

-Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik

 

ubwoy andwiches       x <14/reg grew,

and olods

      
 

 453 E. Nelson 31.
Lexington, V0
_5A}43-3322

.3:

W wk 36 ond$l2/Hr.

Leave name and
phone no. with

  
    
 
 

’2‘.;’:’.‘i..gwarmer  

If you had a choice, would.n’t you choose fresh, hot  _‘__ 

tilt Sﬁwwi 

that’s been left sitting under heat_,lai_nps?. Then choose Subway ‘  ,1
where you can get our Subway  I‘ I " , ' , - -3 . _',,
7  J       b      it     UNIVERSITYARTWORKS
I :>h1€l:v:ni( 8c Chrc sub hot and  on read  j  . _ 

www.siibvm_v.cnIn

'.i'l’i:’i

. ]-:-¥'“ 1 i...‘ .; 4 \w». |.|l< «- lm

Oi 463-4353

 

 

    

i 0

NOVEMBER 5, 1997 PAGE 5

F .
I .
I I I

' O
“ .

BY LIZ DEHER & WM HARDIE W81 E sadness, hopelessness and guilt; the inability to to 20 questions about the frequency with which

think; and suicidal tendencies. Transitory feelings they experienced feelings of depression. V

R “A1ways alone in the midst ofpeople, 1 return of depression can be totally normal reactions to The screening was successful, and Counseling

stress, but the long-term or recurrent presence of
four or more of these symptoms in combination is
cause for concern.

Since self-diagnosis of depression can be elu-
sive, Washington and Lee University Counseling
Services decided to offer the W&L community the
opportunity to be professionally evaluated for de-
pression. Oct. 9 was National Depression Screen-
ing Day, and Counseling Services and Peer Coun-

Services plan to do it again next year.

' According to Dean Anne Schroer-Lamont, 18
people were screened, including undergraduates,
law students, staff members and family members of
staff. Roughly 40 percent of those screened were “
clinically depressed.

“I think a lot of people came in to see where they
stood and were pleasantly surprised to realize that
they were just having a down day,” said Catherine

home in order to give myselfup, with unspeakable
melancholy, to my dreams. How do I regard life
today? I give way to thoughts of death.” Ifthe
words of a 17-year-old Napoleon Bonaparte strike

It a familiar chord, you may be depressed.
Depression is one of the most common mental
illnesses, especially among young adults. Some
estimate that as many as one in ﬁve women and
one in fiﬁeen men experiences clinical depression

“ during his 1jfel;'irne_ selors administered tests for depression in the Uni- Haddock, senior, alter helping to administer the test.
Depression can aiso be diﬁienlt to diagnose, versity Center. Those who were diagnosed depressed had the
signs ineindeg 3 enange in eating and sleeping The tests were designed to determine whether a option of a 15-minute counseling session with ei-
patterns; headaches and stornaenaehes; 1oss of person exhibits symptoms of depression and the tlierDean Schroer-Lamont orDr. James Worth Most
4 interest in life; fatigue; feelings of worthlessness, S€V61'i’iY Oflhose Symptoms. Test-takers responded - .
(I) See DOWN page 4 ‘
Want to raise your grade-point average?
‘ .
Phi Eta Sigma members
‘ lth ' t
‘~ BY Km” TONE” Sm? W studying and be _well rested.” . l '
Classical music entertains Michele Connors, along with moti-
aities are over. Weekend getaways are things of the vating her to do well. She prefers Mozart to accompany her
past. And, you’ve ﬁnally canceled the premium movie readings.
l channels. , Brown nose.
After midterm grades and a visit from the parental unit, you Sure, other students might call you names and laugh, but are
have decided (been forced) to study*. Now before foreheads they members of Phi Eta Sigma? Going in and talking to the
start to crimch, migraines take hold and ﬁngernails are bitten to professor doesn’t just add a few brownie points in the grade
the quick, RELAX -- you can do it! As a service to its readers, book, it can actually teach you something. Ask questions and . _
,4 The Ring-Tum Phi asked the experts how to tackle the daunting ‘ show your professors outlines and rough drafts, said Jordan v 
task of studying for success. Bulger. *3 A -
The following study tips were gathered from the new ini- “These are the people who are trying to teach you,” he. said. THE BREAKFAST CLUB i S one of;/V&L s mosipopuia, bimdS_ PHOTO Br GUYMOLYNEUX
tiates of Phi Eta Sigma, the sophomore honorary society. These “One on one never hurts.” ' _ _ -
studious sophomores gave advice on everything from what to Choose the right time. Breakfast  COITIGS t0 the PaVIIlOn and Students are
‘I write to what to eat. Follow their advice, and you too can earn “Study when you study best,” Sula Jacobs answers simply. . .
an A**. She is a morning person whose best study hours are between
Write it all down. 5:30 to 7:30 a.m. (butaskher how early she goes tobed)."  I e e 
Writing everything down on notecards helps Brittany Ginny Jernigan is just the opposite. She’s a night person who
‘ Ahlstrom orgaruze, learn and remember. It also keeps her from hates the constant interruptions during the day.“ Once every- BY SYBIL PRIME & LIZ DEn_m This weekend, relive the Reagan era when the
getting belund. one goes to bed, she said, I finally have Sim, WRHER ,
Shannon Bell has a more sophisticated some peace and quiet.” . . . Breakfast Club Comes to .town' .The pgpular 805
system She makes Study guides byrec0py_ ‘ 6 Avoid tests _ Remember a time when the most pressing thing on cover bandwas last seen in Lexington in late Sep-
ing her notes in two columns. On the left Just don’t take tests is Jennifer Fisher’s yollrmmdwasthenumber ofhokis lnyourjeans? when tember atP1KA and SPE The ﬁatemuy basements
g side, she writes down what the professor I do work all day philosophy. Of course, this means she has  83:?’ (D .
said in question form, with the answers on b etween classes so 1 tips for writing papers. The right mindset is q gm ' ‘ 386 CLUB page 4
the right side. Bell keeps up with the study key for Fisher. Her computer makes monkey,
guide throughout the term, so at test time don‘? /’laVe to Cram frog and other jungle sounds when she turns
she can use it to quiz herself. at n ight it on. “They get me all kinds of psyched for
5 Key words and phrases help trigger writing papers,” she said.
Nancy Reinhart’s grey matter, so she makes Of course, most W&L students have no
a list and tests herself until she can iden- -Brandon  way around the test-taking, so these Phi Eta

tify all the test material with the key words.
Just get it done.

“I do work all day between classes so I
don’t have to cram at night,” said Brandon Chalk. He actually
finds he can study amidst all the distractions of his. room.

Jason Nichols suggests the library. “Lock yourself in a car-

  
 
 

 

 

, , Sigmas contributed a few secrets for the day
of the test.

, Both Connors and Nichols have lucky
pencils. Nichols used long-terrn thinking to choose his charm, a
mechanical pencil. Connors, on the other hand, prefers the tradi-
tional pencil.

comes to the

Lenfest Center

‘ 7M '1'} Ii: P1 11 H

The Lcnfcst Scrics at W&L will open its sci -
son with thc Richmond Ballct on Nov. 10 and 11
at 8pm in thc Kcllcr Thcatrc.

r rel,” he said. “It motivates you to do your homework so you “It’s kind of a limited supply,” said Connors, referring to her Fciltll "Cd in thc I) |'0'.5|‘="" =1 "C “'35” ’l°“‘5 "ll
ean ﬁnish and go home,” _ ’ lucky slaridard grapliiio “So it has to be a really’ roally’ really the 20th ccntury--Jolm Butlcr's Carmina
“Them are SO many Other things I0 be doing With your time important test.” Bu rana and Balanchine's Concci1o Barocco.
at W&L,” said Ashley Buck, whose secret of success is “just Nichols has another ritual to help himout. He always untucks "F-=10“ 0Wl<‘St‘ “’0|’kS«" S*'."54||1i-WC‘“"°W"‘
gt’/(ting around 10 it.” the back of shirt, leaving the front neatly in place. Stoncr Winslctt. “cxhibits the path ofcvolution
‘ Eat, sleep and be merry. “I did it orioo before a test and did really Well,” he said, ﬁgup of ballot in this ccntury, one which has U! the
“A quiet place with chocolate” is Heather Reid’s answer. ing it must have helped him out in some way. “W” twill"!-i~ l'“°"S°- “'l""-‘|"‘°“‘l P“ "l"‘l "f*"‘°‘
She always studies with some form of chocolate near by, prefer- Beanie Babies provide support for Jacobs. She uses the little i"l"ll.V 5" 1|“ 0f dank‘? hN0|'."-”
ably Reese’s Peanut Butter cup. ereatnres to have something to no1d on to, in the same manner a Carmina Bu ra na is a thcatrc piccc based on
, Jordan Btilger takes a more serious approach to his brain stress ball works. She chooses diiferent animals from her collec- pocms disco\'crc(l in the library of thc Bavarian
food. “Eat as though you’re an athlete,” he suggests. “It’s a tion depending on the subject. Bcncdiktbcurcn M on; 'tcry and set to thc stir-
competition and you need to be set, mind and body.” Of course, superstition is not for everyone. “"15 "1 "550 0f C?!” 0' T-
Dr. Thomes Nye, professor of biology, suggests proteins in “I don’t use luck,” said Stephanie McKnight. “I either know A """““l"“ "f l-W‘ “""“ '1" 5"'~‘355 3"" |’"'
the morning rather than carbohydrates. Bell ﬁnds this helpful, it or I don’t_” ‘ cms by minst rcls and monks who had frccd them-
u especially before tests «I am decidedly ami_liioky charms,” said Roslmi Nirody, ro_ sclycs of the monastic discipline. they arc secu-
Sleep is a common tool used by these honor students. ferring to “charms of luck,’’ but also expanding on the cereal. "W "*'"“"'"‘*"‘ 5“""°d° Th" "illlc" " "l’“"'*'*“
“I’m big on making sure I have a decent night’s sleep,” said “They just use way too many marshmallows. They keep adding lillld-*'t‘=|IK' 0f "‘0"C"‘<""~ "Oi 3' |‘k‘i|ll“lt‘ I’0|1| =|.\'1|'
Leah Schaefer. “I would rather forgo some them to make it more appealing, but ovemually it isjust going to of thc pocms. Thc p rologuc bi-moans thc
be all marshmallows arid morors going to be no merit to that c\'crclIan;:,in;_r, fate of man who can soar onc mo-
! ooroalj’ " mcnt only to comc crashing: down thc ncxt.
when it comes down to it, yoiiiiisl need to loam Carmina Bu rana is dividcd into thrcc sec-
tlio material in ordorio ace mo test. lions: thc fi ‘ 1 part sings of thc delights of
“Ifyou really wam to learn what yourro do- spring; thc sccond cclcbratcs thc plc- surc. c.\—
irig,” said Matt Mills, “mm mo Ty olfl” tra\a;:,anccs. and dcspai rs ofthc tavcrn; and thc
ll" third is a scrics of love poc Thc cpiloguc
* Study (as defined by Random cchocs the tone of prologuc.
House diciio,m,.y)_- application ofihe Conccrto Barocco. sct to the music of Bach's
mimiio the acquisition oﬂoiowiedge’ Conccrto in D minor for Two Violins. is dc-
a as by reading’ investigation, or ,.e_ scribcd by Balanchinc as tryingto “intcrcst thc
ﬂeet,-0,,‘ audicncc only by its dancing, its treatment of
music.just as Baroquc art and architecture in-
ane This is not a gua,.a,iree’ the tcrcst pcoplc not bccausc of their subjccts. but
author and The Ri,ig_Tu,,i Phi ,.eii,,_ bccausc ofthc ilccorativc treatments that cm-
‘ quish all responsibility in the outcome b°"i5h‘~‘d 'th"5° 5“l’.lC 35-"

 

of your grades. If a method fails, blame
the honor students for their lousy ad-
vice!

Tickcts for thc Richmond Ballct arc on salc
now at thc Lcnfcst Box Officc. Thc pricc is S3
for studcnts, faculty _aml stall’.

 

PAGE 4

REsuLTs

Football (3-5)
Sat. .0 Bridgewater 10
W&L 22

Volleyball (16-9)

Thu.: E. Mennonite 0
W&L 3
Sat.: Greensboro 3
W&L 1
Women’s Soccer (14-2)
Wed.: W&L 10
E&H 0
Sat.: RM 0
W&L 1
Men’s Soccer (7-2)
Tues.: Roanoke 2
W&L 1
Sat.: Denison 2
W&L 1‘

AHEAD

Football
at Emory & Henry

Volleyball
Sat.: ODAC Toumy
@ Hollins

Sat.:

Men’s Soccer
Tues.: ODAC Tourny
1st Round (TBA)

Cross Country
Sat: ODAC Toumy

  sports

NOVEMBER 3, 1997

Generals poach Eagles, 22-10

Forcing four Bridgewater turnovers during a Parents’ Day mudbath, the
Generals’ defe'nsive squad unleashed its beast

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
"’j“““‘"j“"‘ STAFF \5(/RITER

ed by an outstanding defensive
I performance, the Generals
made it a happy Parents’
Weekend as they defeated
Bridgewater 22-10 Saturday at Wil-
son Field. Bridgewater held a slight
edge in most of the key statistics but
the combination of solid defense, key
kick-returns, and early turnovers
helped the Generals get the win.

Things didn’t get off to a great start
for the Generals as quarterback Chris-
tian Batchellor was intercepted by
Bridgewater defensive back Richard
Glovier, on the ﬁrst play of the game.
Batchellor tried to make a difﬁcult
pass on the run while being pursued
by a Bridgewater lineman and wound
up throwing a ﬂoater, which was eas-
ily picked off.

But Bridgewater would quickly
return the favor as Generals defensive
back Ryan Fletemeyer intercepted
Eagles quarterback Brith Osinkosky
after the ball bounced off
Fletemeyer’s teammate, John
Bennazzi. Fletemeyer returned the
interception 39 yards to the
Bridgewater 23, setting up a Chris-
tian Bachellor 1 yd QB sneak for a
touchdown. On the ensuing extra
point attempt, the kick was blocked
but the Generals’ David Ritchey was
able to recover the ball in the endzone
for a two-point conversion and the
Generals took an 8-0 lead.

The teams then exchanged punts
for a good portion of the first half. The
Eagles failed to capitalize on a scor-
ing opportunity early in the second
quarter when kicker Michael Padgett
missed a 22-yard ﬁeld goal. It ap-
peared that the ball was partially
blocked. Bridgewater did manage to

put points on the board late in the sec-
ond half as Padgett booted a 21-yard
ﬁeld goal with one second left, to cut
the Generals’ lead to 8-3.

Early in the third quarter, the Gen-
erals’ Harry Brookby returned a punt
27 yards to the Eagles 39 yardline set-
ting up another Washington and Lee
touchdown. After tailback Hanley
Sayers exploded for 14 yards to the
Eagles 3-yard line, fullback Scott
Moses ran it in for the touchdown.
The touchdown was followed by a
Batchellor run for the two-point con-
version and the Generals’ lead was in-
creased to 16-3.

Bridgewater refused to roll over
and the Eagles attempted to mount a
comeback in the fourth quarter. On a
4th and 8 play Eagles’ punter Von
Lewis faked the kick and ran the ball
28 yards to the W&L 24-yard line.
The Eagles converted on the fake as
tailback Colby Allen ran it in from the
3-yard line, cutting the lead to 16-10.

But once again the Generals’ de-
fense stepped up and got the job done.
With five minutes left in the game and
the Eagles driving, Matt Luca -recov-
ered Colby Allen fumble and ran it
back to the Bridgewater 30. This
would prove to be a game—saving play
as the Generals went up 22-10 aﬁer
tailback Wesley Sayers rushed 5-
yards for a touchdown.

“The ball just popped out of
Allen’s hands and I was just right
there,” said Luca. “ I was just in the
right place.” Luca was a large part of
the Generals’ solid defensive effort:
he was in on 11 tackles, recovered a
fumble, and also had a big sack on a
crucial third down play. But Luca was
quick to point out that it was a team
effort. “It was a great effort by the
entire defense; the whole defense was

TAKING A BREAK, the defensive unit recieves praise from Head Coach Miriello following their shutting down of
the Brigewater offensive attack. The Generals’ defense forced four turnovers and held the Eagles to 274 yards on
64 plays. Despite the rain and mud, the team enjoyed their thrid victory in front of a capacity Parents’ Day crowa’.

HoL1.1srE1e H()VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

in on it,” he said.

Defensive Back Ryan Fletemeyer,
who came up with the big interception
early in the ﬁrst half, was also pleased
with the defensive effort. “The defense
did a great job,” he said. “ We really
shut them down, we were all playing a
little harder because of Parents’ Week-
end.” Most of the players seemed to
agree with Fletemeyer. They do seem
to play a little harder for the games dur-
ing Homecoming and Parents’ Week-
end, and the Generals won both of those
games.

The Generals have 2 games remain-‘

STEAMING IN THE COLD, members of the Generals rugby team await
their chance to crush a Hampden-Sydney tiger. In they end, they did,
defeating the Tigers by a score of 1 7-12. 1‘10LI.lS7ER Ho VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

3

Beginner Walk Trot
Susanah Carr — 4th
Meredith Welch — 2nd
Intermediate Equitation
on the Flat

Christine Starer - 4th
Intermediate Equitation
over Fences

Lydia Nichols — 4th
Christine Starte - 4th

The W&L RidingTeam

Results at Virginia Intermont

Open Equitation on the
Flat

Lydia Nichols — 2nd
Britta Gaffey - 5th

Open Equitation over
Fences

Britta Gaffey — 4th

OVERALL SCHOOL
PLACEMENT - 6th

ing. Next week they travel to Emory:

and Henry before returning home the
following week to face Swarthmore. So
now the question for the Generals is can
they win their last two games and make
it to the .500 mark? The Generals seem

to be conﬁdent that they can as they
will go in to the ﬁnal 2 games having
won 3 of their last 4. “I think we can
do it,” added Fletemeyer. “We’re play-
ing really well right now and have a
good shot at it.”

 

Women’s soccer season
ends in the ODAC semis

BY FRANCES GROEERG
——-mm‘- STAFF Want-‘R

raditions die hard at Washing
I ton and Lee. Tailgating lives
on-, the honor system still
works, and the women’s soccer team
still fail to capture the ODAC title. The
Generals, after shutting out Sweet
Briar 2-0 in the ﬁrst round, were de-
feated by six-time defending champi-
ons Randolph Macon, by a score of
2-1.
But W&L did not give up without
a ﬁght. The Generals fought into two
tough overtime periods before the
Yellow Jackets were able to score and
seal the victory. Randolph Macon
scored ﬁrst, with a goal from Beth
Kirby at the 44:30 mark. W&L got a
goal from sophomore Ginny Jemigan
at 63: 13 to even the game. The score
remained tied until the second over-
time period, when R-MC Kirby scored
her second goal of the game. Fresh-
man Lauren Harris was credited with
six saves for the game.
W&L’s ﬁrst round game in the
ODACs against Sweet Briar turned
out much more favorably for the Gen-

erals, as they pulled out a 2-0 victory.
Junior co-captain Karin Treese scored
W&L’s ﬁrst goal of the game midway
through the ﬁrst half, picking up a re-
bound from co-captain Claire Bow-
ers and blasting it past SBC goalie
Carol Skriloff. With 23 goals this sea-
son, Treese shattered both the record
for goals in one season and for all-
time goals.

Freshman Amanda McDermott,
with her third astounding goal of the
season, sealed the victory with a
rocket of a shot. The Generals outshot
Sweet Briar 35-0, and won 12 comer
kicks to Sweet Briar’s zero. W&L
was so dominant in the middle that
goalies Lauren Harris and Stephanie
McKnight did not have to make a
single save to record their seventh
shutout of a season.

Though this year’s season ended
with a loss, the women’s soccer team
can be consoled by the fact that for
most of them, there is always next
year. Of the 22 players on this year’s
squad, 18 will return in ’98 for another
run at the ODAC championship. It
was a great season, and the ’97 Gen-
erals have nothing to regret.

£679 Jock Shorts

- Men’s soccer loses two more OT battles -
- Volleyball wins its sixth straight -

Men’s Soccer

The regular season drew to a dis-
mal close for the men’s soccer team
Saturday as they surrendered their

, third straight 2-1 overtime loss, this

time to non-ODAC contender
Denison College. The loss seemed to
epitomize the season for the Gener-
als, who seemingly had been on the
brink of glory all season long, but con-
sistently fell short. The Generals will
play their first game in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Touma-
ment on Tuesday, with a ﬁnal chance
to turn their season around.

The game on Saturday against
Denison was a messy one that quickly
deteriorated into a muddy game of

<DSeeSOGCERpage5

Volleyball

The Generals volleyball team won
its third straight ODAC regular sea-
son championship on Thursday. They
beat Eastern Mennonite 15-13, 15-9,
15-12. Both teams entered the match
with an 8-1 conference mark, and the
win propelled the Generals to the no.
1 seed for this weekend’s ODAC tour-
nament. Following that victory, the
squad hosted their non-conference foe
Greensboro, to whom they lost in the
Emory Tournament in Oétober. This
time, the Generals concluded the regu-
lar season with a 16-14, 9-15, 15-8,
15-11 victory.

As beﬁtting a big game, both teams
entered Thursday’s match excited.

$15 See VOLLEYBALL page 5

 

  

1! NOVEMBER 3, 1997

CE) DOWN

people't'ook" the option. Schroer-Lamont and Worth
advised_ people as to whether they should seek
further treatment.

“We have caught some situations that might have
gotten worse if we hadn’t done the screening,” said
Schroer-Lamont.

Depression is on the rise nationally. Schroer-Lamont at-
tributes this to the high stress-level in modern society. De-
pression oﬁen surfaces in college, when new situations and
pressures increase student's stress. Alcohol can exacerbate
the situation. \

Everyone gets depressed when something major goes
wrong in his life. But some people ﬁnd it harder than oth-
ers to get back on an even keel. These are the people who
are at risk to depression.

Several factors contributeto such problems, including
genetics and probably brain chemistry. But many psy-
chologists believe that the way people think about their
problems is particularly important. A person who is sus-
ceptible to depression is likely also to be the type to blame
failures and problems on fundamental and enduring as-
pects of himself. And three times more women than men
are diagnosed as depressed.

Counseling Services and Peer Counselors are available
to help students who feel overwhelmed.

“Here at W&L we have two professional counselors,”
said Haddock, “and I think that if anyone needs to talk to
a counselor they should take advantage of that. We have

the resources, and it’s not cheap off-campus.’’ .
Schroer-Lamont was unsure whether the location of the

depression screening in the University Center deterred
more people from participating. She does not believe,
however, that students attach a stigma to depression

 91  Peter?‘

PAGE 5

EIGHTEEN PEOPLE came to the university-sponsored depression screening clinic last month.
PHOTO BY HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

or counseling.
“More and more students seem to talk openly about

their depression, especially about medication,” she said.

Depression is a serious illness that can be treated. Coun-
seling, medication therapy, and psychotherapy can be ef-
fective. All of these services are available on a confiden-

= sports

tial basis through the university, which also has links to
professionals in Lexington and Roanoke.

Do not hesitate to seek help if you think you need it.
Friends are supportive, but talking to a professional
can make a depressed person feel a great deal better
surprisingly quickly.

do SOCCER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
slosh-ball. The Generals scored ﬁrst

off a free kick from Andy Crawford.
The ball felljust short of the goalie’s
range and Jaime Parker, seeing the
advancing keeper, skimmed it off his
head and over the keeper’s out-
stretched arms for an easy goal. De-
spite the Generals’ early lead, the game
did not go their way. The wet field
conditions seemed to favor Denison’ s
sloppy style of play. Denison scored
the equalizer early in the second half.
After the W&L squad failed to retali-
ate with a goal of their own, the game
moved to overtime. With two minutes
remaining in the first overtime period,
Denison’s Brian Hylbert connected
on an unassisted goal to win the game.

Washington and Lee’s game on
Thursday with ODAC rival Roanoke
was less ugly than Saturday’s 2-1
overtime loss to Denison, but the re-
sult was identical. After falling be-
hind 1-0 to Roanoke in the first half,
the Generals came back with a second-
half goal by Jaime Parker which forced
a sudden-death overtime period.
Three minutes into the period, W&L
keeper E.J. Murphy made a great save,
knocking a hard blast from Roanoke’ s
Chris Hewitt over the goal and out
of danger. But, Roanoke’s Kevin
Goodwin won the game with a
header goal on the ensuing
comerkick.

The 1997 season was one of ups
and downs for the men’s soccer team.
With an overall record of 10-5, the team
won twice as many games it lost. But

the Generals fell just short in several
essential games that could have trans-
formed their season. Now there will
be no room for error. On Tuesday the
Generals will begin the ODAC touma-
ment, most likely against rivals
Hampden-Sydney. Will they rebound
from their regular season losing streak
and ﬁnally come together to win a big
game, or fall hopelessly short of glory
once again? As far as their fans are
concerned, victory is inevitable.

QD VOLLEYBALL
CONHNUEDFROMPAGE4

“We knew it was for the champion-
ship, and that EM is a pretty big rival
anyway, so’ we were very fired up en-
tering the match,” said junior Megan
Snodgrass. Both teams played espe-
cially strongly on defense, and the
W&L offense was in full force. In
game one, the Generals opened a 3-0
lead behind a block from senior Hilary
Martin and freshman Williams, a kill
by Williams, and a kill by sophomore
Nancy Reinhart. The teams traded
points before a block by Williams, and
Snodgrass gave the Generals a 5-2
advantage. EM closed the gap to one
before Snodgrass ended the rally with
an emphatic kill. She then served, and
with offensive help by senior Holly
Thomsen and good defense by the
entire team, gave the Generals an 8-4
lead. The teams subsequently battled
to a 10-5 score, with the tenth W&L
point coming off a block by Reinhart
and Martin. EM then went on a rally,
evening the game at 10-10 due mainly
to some W&L defensive breakdowns
and some timely offense. The Gener-

als then went on a run of their own
behind the serves of Martin and took
a 13-10 lead, which they never relin-
quished on their way to a 15-13 vic-
tory.

Games two and three were equally
competitive. EM opened game two by
exploding to a 4-0 lead. The Generals
battled back, however, behind two kills
from Reinhart and one kill from Will-
iams. A service ace by Reinhart
evened the game at 4-4. The teams
traded points and sideouts until the
score was 7-6 in favor of W&L. The
Generals then ran off six unanswered
points with kills by Williams, Reinhart,
Thomsen, and Snodgrass. They ulti-
mately rolled to a 15-9 victory.

Game three was a back and forth
affair, with each team managing no
more than one point per service op-
portunity. Then, the Generals broke
open an 11-11 tie, behind the serves
of Thomsen. A kill by Martin closed
the game and the match at 15-12. Over-
all, Nancy Reinhart led the way with
13 kills. Snodgrass had 8 kills, while
Martin had 8 kills, 10 digs, and 5 blocks.
Senior Ali Beard, who last week broke
the school record for assists in a ca-
reer, totaled 36 more of them.

The Generals defeated Greensboroon
Saturday to improve their record to
16-9 for the season. Reinhart had 16
kills and 18 digs and Martin had 15
kills. Snodgrass and Thomsen
chipped in with 12 kills apiece.

Beard finished the regular season
with a season high 51 assists. The
Generals can now look forward to
the ODAC tournament, where they
have won only once (in 1995) de-
spite being the No. 1 seed for the
past three years. They are confi-

dent entering this weekend.

“We hit our peak this week, which John
was a good time to do so. We have a Stewart
lot of momentum going into this week— [1
end, where we ex t t h "'e€' '€"'m

I _ pee I o ave some meet the mym
good competition, said Snodgrass. SteWam,@Wh1_edu

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

were hot and sweaty, as throngs of students ﬂocked to
hear one of W&L’s best-loved bands.

Thanks to Fridays!, the Nov. 7 performance of the Break-
fast Club is scheduled for the Pavilion. The larger venue
should prevent the over-crowded conditions that prevailed
in September.

“It’s definitely a plus that they’re playing the Pavil-
ion,” says Justin Riedell, ’98. “That way we won’t all be
packed in like cattle.”

If past performances are any indication, the Pavilion
will be packed Friday night. W&L students just can’t get
enough of the Breakfast Club.

“We like performing at Washington and Lee,” guitarist
Scott Banks said. “Y’all aren’t afraid to raise hell.”

Group members Scott Banks, Michael Mundy, Richard
Leverone and David Allen welcome requests and often
invite audience participation. They claim the ability to
recreate any song from the early to mid-eighties.

“As far as we’re concerned, it is 1985,” they said.

Their costumes support this boast. The lead singer of-
ten appears looking similar to Sting in his Police days,
while the keyboardist sports the Robert Palmer style. All
together, the band does a great job revitalizing the pop
music of the ’80s with enough energy and enthusiasm to
infect the entire audience.

The Breakfast Club travels around the southeastern
United States playing colleges and bars. While most of
their fans were too young to party during the ’80s, they
also have a growing older retro audience.

“We make a good living,” Banks said, “but we are al-

ways on the road and don’t have many days off.” .

The Breakfast Club originated in Winston-Salem, N.C.,
but after several member changes, their home base is now
in Atlanta.

In addition to touring, they are working on an album of
original material.

As usual, the Pavilion will feature a beer garden, allevi-
ating the problem of BYOB regulation. If you’re over 21
and want to drink, don’t forget your ID.

The Breakfast Club starts 9 p.m. Friday, Nov. 7 at the
Pavilion. Tease your hair, throw on some ripped jeans and
be there. It’ll be very.

. 3 '4»-n-4;, ,/

./r .;,.
I’

/fsgg, 


2
‘K-gas '- '5 ' kw‘
. 5: I
/?- -'

-1 a. -. ¥- 
 /
V‘

r
z
e

._§
./
4;?’

,.
 ﬁi  " /,.«,=/

. Z   --
 .'.


‘ ﬁgs‘ .
//
<5

_   .-.-. use or / §;$§'f""$‘7Bs‘;l

.. 7 /

‘If’, my /. I  s_,.99
_.  at’
//''’:,x. I I‘? ,//f %

/ '/’
/J/’ '

, THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLE THINGS LIKE
THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER THE PAST 30 YEARS,
' OROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED

RS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT'S ALL-NEW..WITH
ORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
LUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL,

IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER

GALLON HIGHWAY COROLLA IS SAFER AND
QUIETER, AND BEST OFALL, IT STARTS

AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST

YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS

MONEY. WHAT A

R E F R E S H I N G

C H A N G E !

TOYOTA I ovorqdaq

Ms. Miller, Mr. Zacher,
1VIs. Ooombs, Ms. Ewing,
Ms M3YUIT1i1$ Mn Hardie,
Mr. SteWa1t,Ms. Groberg,
Ms. Grant, Ms. Detler and
M. Coffee. These are the
people who live and die
for the H212 Most of them
are failing at least one
class, others have given
up Weekly conversations
with the parents and
other loved ones. They’ve
been sucked into the
black hole of University
Center 2()8. You may not
see us again, but if you
do it’d be great if one of
you faithful, loyal, smart
and cool readers would
say, “thank-you.” So
when you see our blea1y— .
eyed, ponytail/ ball cap
heads on the hill today,
Smile and speak to them.

 

 

B I N I h
I  g  Docnsbrewery By Keggy Trudeau
I
  k
Oﬂd I H   l E
I-tony, miter DENNIS - =9 -‘
vac.-nib 1'. uvt.WIe|5H- M?’
E
I always worry when my parents come to see me. ‘l"""_lr1Te. 1:  i__‘_
In the days before my parents travel to Lexing— 2:13 in ii: ll’ _
._ ton to visit, I fret over what we will do. I worry . ‘
PAGE 6 NOV, 5,  that we won’t have anywhere to go, or worse, that
we won’t have anything to say to each other. The
sights of Lexington can be exhausted in little over '

Ah, midterm grades. Letters on a tiny slip of an hour. My classes don’t offer us much common
paper sent home to tell parents one of two things; ground for conversation. Where does that leave us?
either that the education their little darlings are
receiving is indeed worthy of the tuition money for Red ~

. , ck R0
which they ve mortgaged the house for, or that B11 W /- H‘ h‘ ‘dd’ *4’ ll‘ ‘H h
they are paying $20,000 a year for their child to DﬂVlCl Balsley '99 V /
party farther away from home. I

Are these grades accurate? Not really. In fact, My parents make things a lot easier by planning
they probably cause both students and parents a lot what they want to do. Last year, we drove to Goshen 1'
more perspiration than is really necessary. Pass to see the changing colors of the leaves. This

There are essentially two causes of midterm year, We Walked under Natural Bridge.
inaccuracy. The first is beyond the professor’s And We rallsed We dlsedssed my Classes: loom‘
control. The second, well, the second is just the males: sleelhllg habits» Plans for 33 major, hopes for It
professoras fault an internship and taste in beer. We talked about

Midtemi grades tend to exclude one essential m.y brother’ my dog’ my nelghhors at home’ my
in redient in their calculation‘ the rade for the hlghschool teachers and my small" We were com‘

is _ r . g fortable with each other. I was happy to see them, ﬁemerﬁ ere‘ wgwnﬁr new "up
respective midterm test. Because many classes and they were happy to Se e me ‘ere heme, 1
Walt llhlll after readlhg days to adrrlllllsrer tests, It turns out that my parents and I are a lot alike. I i
there ls 3 leek of llrhe left for gredlhg them before When an announcer introduced himself on TV Sat-
grades are due. Because most of us like the fact urday evening, my dad and I waved and said hello.
that we get the extra days to study (or procrastinate My mom and I both moaned at some of my father’s R
about Studying), there’s no [33501] to cgmplain jokes. My dad and I lOOl( a lOt alike,  IS all
about thin right,with me, because my dad’s good looking.
The Second reason for grade irmaeuraey is that Our similarities made it easy for us to talk to one
. . another. I found out last weekend that a mother,
some professors, in order to scare students into , . .
. . father and son don t need similar schedules to get I‘
workmg harder lor’ for that matter’ Startmg to along They just have to have similar personali-
work), will deﬂate marks, sometimes by an entire tree, which my parents and I do.
letter grade On Sunday morning, the three of us ate brunch

Thls ls Wr0hg- Why shellld stlldehts h3Ve t0 at Aunt Sarah’s. We sat and talked to each other — ' ' ’
guess what their grade is in a particular class, when like adults. In this respect, our relationship has I n g S J u S  n  n e ‘’
professors have the ability — and the responsibility changed since I came to college.

— to accurately represent a student’s efforts? The l hope that l’Ve become more mature since high ' L 3
result of this is that students are handed letters and 5°h°°l= and l,h°l’_e that has helped “5 lo hetler gel  m e S I n   S e  u 
;gn;§>;;;,;; ,‘:l§’.§‘;%,..‘.,‘l;’;‘..§.fi‘,§“,i‘,i’i;‘;Z,‘2,?T$f..,iS..‘E‘E,Z‘;%..‘i:.S.f£; 4*
SO wh e"/en have midterm fades? True the as friends. It’s 3:30 a.m., and deep in the one was friendly. Fraternities had have started to believe this, Look
y _ _ , g ' ’_ y Being able to talk to my parents on an even keel dorms, groups of students have gath- pledges early in the year, and used around you! The Shenandoah Valley
can be an effectlve motlvatlonal tool’ promptlhg means a lot to me. It also requires a lot of me: I ered to play computer games. Where them help to do things to give back to is one of the most beautiful parts of
sllldehls to Werk harder- But to he truly effeetlvea have to be more responsible and I have to do a bet- is your school is headed? the Lexington community. Save for the world; enjoy your surroundings '‘ '
the grades lnnsl be accurate representations Ofa ter job of taking care of myself, so I won’t be em- the occasional ﬁght with VMI, the Get out, meet people — you don’t
student’s achievement (or lack thereof) in a par- barrassed when I tell my parents what I’ve been up V, community and the students inter- have to drink ifyou don’t want, Join '
ticular class. Professors who “guesstimate” grades to. The fewer bad grades l haVe to report, the less I My le W acted well. a service or social organization to
can cause students to panic, but no one pays feel like a child when I call home. The more re~ Douglas Brown :98 _ Iknow it sounds like I am describ- make new friends, but please stop try- n
attention to a grade they know has been deﬂated sponslble I am, the more I feel like an adult, and __._*....._ 1n_g an idyllic place, but that’s what ing to change our school just to make
To make midterm grades worthwhile for any_ the better I can talk to my parents as an adult. r this schoolused to be. Recently, how- yourself happy_
One, freshmen or uppepciassmene both Students My mom, dad and I finished the day with a drive These students who have found ever, admissions has chosen to recruit If you really did not know what to
. . along the Blue Ridge Parkway and a trip to Harris they re not happy here, and the frus- a bunch of really bright students who expect when you came to this school,
and teachers Wm have to Start takmg them more Teeter They took me back to my apartment helped tration has caused them to withdraw have no idea what they are getting and ou are not ha with what ou s
:eri:uSly' _ Professohs have K? Stop trying to Scar‘? carry the groceries inside, then started to get ready inside themselves. Once academi— into. I came here knowing full well founyd, then you  always wlork
res lheh lhre sh-ldylhgs and In tilfn, freshmen Wlll to leave. My mom gave me some money for din- callyjsuperior extroverts, they now what sort of place I was coming to. hard, improve your grades, and then
actually pay attention to the ominous number at the nor, I gave my parents a hug and walked with my hide in a fantasy world to escape the Why have so many other students transfer somewhere you think you
bottom. mom outside. dark reality of life (as they see it) of come here wanting to change the will be happier,

Many students, especially in winter term, , My concerns about not having anything to say Washington and Lee. school? Diversity isn’t a bad thing, Most importantly: don’t let school l"
completely discount their grades because they "or do during their visit seemed silly. We had talked This scene plays out more and but if diversity is what you expected get inthc way of your education You
understand now the professors are grading about everything. We had gone different places and more frequently as our school blindly to ﬁnd at college, you Came to the can learn so much from college just

This makes the midterm grades worthieee had a good time: I had enjoyed their visit and looked strives to achieve some pinnacle of wrong place. . by being here_ Get your nose out of

forward to talking to them again next weekend. I US. News and World Report excel- . Recentlyafew noisy students have the books, or off the computer screen, n
had realized that we really are a lot alike. lence. I don’t want to sound like an decided that the only things to do here and see what other experignces are
‘c I stood and waved as they drove away. ‘I was old codger, but when I was a fresh- are drink, study, and hook up. That is open to you. You may find that you
happy to have shared a wonderful weekend with my man, things here were different. We a very narrow-minded view, and I really are happy here after all, and that
uote of the  parents. had fall Rush, lots of beer, and every- think some of the more naive students there is no need for change, ‘
I I I
“I never thought to equate Dr. Reg I St rat: 0 n In te rm 5 Of Wh O , H Ot Wh at
Nye’s smile with a s#$!—eating
' 72 W
gnn° This upcoming week is one of my least favorite times of graduate, I can’t reveal that right now. Anyway, the War Two and modern Chinese history which I likely
. . . the entire year. It’s registration Week, the one Week When average student is left with a class or two per semester wouldn't have taken otherwise.
" PSYeh- mad or to a B10‘ ma] or  otherwise normal, Well-adjusted Students here at W&L de- in which he can take pretty much whatever they want. Professor Porter is another truly entertaining history pro-
Gide it’s '8 good idea to break out the Sleeping bags and Camp Many students look for the easy way out through an fessor. His enthusiasm for his subject is undeniable. He of-
out at Newoonlb Hall and the Science Center all night for easyclass. Let’s face it: this isn’t State U., and there aren’t ten punctuates the point he’s trying to get across in class by I
I -v . - those Classes they absolutely must have NOW, 1 Could sit any easy classes (Well, actually, there are, but I'm sure slamming his list down on atable. Then there is his disdain
   here and write a lengthy tirade about the registration system as hell not going to tell you what they are. I want to sign for the supposed intelligence of freshmen. As everyone who
that requires me to get up before the Crack of dawn to gel the up for them). Even if you do discover an easy class, has been here longer than a year knows, every freshman
Ereucitve Editors Coumley Miller Classes 1 Want, but, quite honestly, Would be like shooting chances are people began camping out for it on Friday, class that enters this university is the smartest ever. A quick ir
. . ‘l".’°“ Z"°"" ﬁsh in a barrel. Besides, you can always make use of the so you won't get in. aside: wouldn’t you love it if one year the admissions de-
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs . . . . . . , . ,
Armrare Edna, Andrea Ewing drop/add period in January and end up with the classes you The real secret 1S not to choose classes, but profes- pamnent said, Well, this year s freshmen class isn t all that
Wanted anyway Wllllolll Pllehlng 3 tent sors. A lousy professor can suck the life out of a sub— bright. The people we really wanted chose Swathmore and
News Editor Kal1uynvMayumik ~ ject you've been fascinated about for years, while a Davidson, sodon’t expect much fromthe freshmenwe ended
"’&l’fe Ed"°" ¥:r:)h"'r‘;":mt From 3 Bar Stool great professor could make underwater basket weav- upwith. Professor Porter loves to mock that notion His quote 1
opinion & Ed,-ierr-ei Edna, Fmees Grebere Erie Sweneen .98 mg the best twelve weeks of your life. For example, this year, after asking us if we had found a frleslimen tutor
Sports Editor John Stewart T. when I do venture outside the journalism department, yet: “This is the only school in America w ere you pay
Copy Editor 'Will_Hardie With that problem s0lVed, the next problem is how to where, of course, every professor is absolutely fantas- $100,000 and leave (lumber than when you came here.”
5   schedule as enjoyable an academic term for yourself as tic. I’ve found a lot of good professors in the history Just about every professor on this campus can teach you re
possible (without taking a term oﬂ). Of course, there are department. Professor Jeans is one of the few profes- something, but notallof themcanreally challenge you, make E
Business Manager Rebecca Cimy always at least one of two Classes 3 term, either in your sors I know who can lecture for over an hour - 82 and you laugh, or even keep you awake. Remember, whenever
Clm<lali9"_ Manager Matthew Craig major or for general education requirements, that yourcan't a half minutes, to be exact - and actually hold my in- you praise or criticize a class, you’re not talking about the
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown possibly avoid. Science Inalofs haye organic chemistry, terest for the entire time. He also runs a great seminar, class, but the professor who taught it. So why not choose a
Am Advemsmg Editor ' Steven Kim and journalism majors h3Ve-~-Well, Since lslill need to so I’ve ended up taking classes on Japan during World ' professor instead of a class? .
The Rtng-tum Phi is published Mondays during ,

the undergraduate school year at Washington and  (‘K  e

‘Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The _ _  ; 1° ge ,_ " . . . .

R*’;9"“;"eP“‘ comes vnmglvvgorgragrgewsing ind  e:  Irjé. ti‘ What d id your kids do with you this weekend?

S11 SCI‘ p 01'} revenues. r 8 as 11 on 311 ee ' .

Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and I _ _ r ' . ’

Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise ’  ii  i . .  V i  5 ' l i

Independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible

submissions and letters. All submissions must be

in the Phi oﬂlce. room 208 of the University Center. ,

by noon on Saturday to appear In that week's edition. “

The Rtng—tum Phi reserves the right to edit

sybmlsslons for content and length. Letters.

columns and "My Views" do not reﬂect the opinion

of The Rlng- tum PhtEdltorla1 Board. Advertising does

not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its n

staff. This newspaper observes current court ‘

definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Rln9'h1"l Phi “It was wonderful, except for the rain. “She was 1/2 an hour late for breakfast this “She made us Walt an hour and 8 half _“She got us warm beer from Sigma
203 Unlyerslty Center we went to the footbaii game the moming-—she’s really busy. We were just Whlle she Was in the bathroom doing her Chi, and that was really an act of love.”
Washington and Lee Urnversity honors banqugt listencd arefiuuy to th C0l'1CCIT\Cd  morning ,CaUS€ WC WCIC the hair and make'up',l '
Lexington‘ Virginia 24450 ehernist leetni-e and then failed the C only parents without a daughter." —— Jay and Kim Reynolds
Telephone: (540) 462-4060 ‘Y = V _ J. d D n T . . ,
Fax, (540) 462-4059 test.” iman of g1 erzigg parents of Cecily 99
E- ail; hi@ 1 , d — Bill and Kim Connors — Bob and Cheryl Hazard parcms ° “San
m P w u e U parents of Michelle ’00 Parents 0fRebeCC8 ’0l

      
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

s.:.~a.s....nn.u_nnnnu-u- nun: tnuuluiulut.

DISCOVER

     

ising

’ 1997 advert
Itcould be

TOWER 
NORTHWEST AlRL|NES................,......
THE SHARPER 
Cash 
T; apﬁzy ‘cage, gb Q  drsébvefcard .com- _
©1997 Gneenwood Tmsi Ccmpany, Member FDIC. ‘Up to 1% ge_:any_ba'sed ‘an aunuagi

 Q
§

s.

NOVEMBER 3

 

_l;’_AGE 8

Get out and

By Oourtney Miller

Rock the Vote Girl

Hey freshmen! Yeah you with the unusually-high-
brown-nosed- mid-term grades and a roomful of good-
ies stocked by your parents. You’ve got something to
do today.

Vote! That’s right wander over to the D-hall ( you
know the place with free meals that are be-
ginning to look a lot a like, not to m e n -
tion that awfully familiar taste)
pick up a ballot and check
someone’s name off.

Maybe you were won over
by the chalk-on-the—sidewalk-
advertisements, or the multi-
tude of colored paper plas-
tered around campus. Maybe
your roommate or hall mate in is
the running. I don’t care if you
vote for someone based purely on the sound of
his/her name. Or even pull my favorite stand-by - cast
your ballet based on gender.

 

‘BY Al€X y first choice to direct
 an adaptation Of a
WEE James Ellroy novel

ld not e Curtis Hanson. He’s

basically a director-for-hire (not that
that’s a bad thing) who just takes
whatever he’s given and puts it on
screen with little imagination or
style. If you’ve read James Ellroy,
you know that his novels are all
imagination and style and hard-
charging, blackly funny, gut-
punching action. Hanson, on the
other hand, is the director of the
crap-fests “The Hand that Rocks
the Cradle” and “The River Wild.”
Films that play on rather mindless
levels of low-grade suspense: “Will
the crazy killer be around the next
corner?” Brian Helgeland, the hack
screenwriter of “Conspiracy
Theory” wouldn’tbe my
first choice to co-write
either.

All of my doubts about
the two men are confirmed
by the ﬂawed ﬁlm “L.A.
Conﬁdential” is.

For a long while after
seeing the ﬁlm, I just
couldn’t decide what I

thought. I thought I might want to

Lost
in
the

trans-

lation

  

0 .0 ' .
Basical?y, someone has to be In charge, or there will

be no one to blame. SAB takes all the heat for band
selection, and the FD steering committee gets to de-
fend such all-startheme choices as the “Reconcilia-

  
   
  
  

tion Ball of 1865” (for further information on
that scandal see issues of the Ring-tum Phi,
c i r c a 1988.)

Look around and decide who can
handle the pressure of being
“frosh” class president, otherwise
known as the dude who gets to collect

 
 
    
 

 

NOVEMBER 5, 1997

last word  

On the run

President
0 Dan Birdwhistell, 9 Stephen
Philipson, 9 David Sullivan
ViCe—President
Tim Angelillo, 9 Katie Baldwin,

0

   

Ot

 

see the ﬁlm again, sitting farther

back in the theater to get a literally
new perspective on it. I also read the

novel a long time ago, and hadn’t
wanted to reread it in case it might
spoil the experience of the ﬁlm for
me. This review should deﬁnitely be
read with these cautions. “L.A.
Conﬁdential” left me conﬂicted.

The things I’m not conﬂicted
about are many. The acting in the
ﬁlm is uniformly superb, even from
Kim Basinger, who hasn’t done
anything good since “Batman.” The

art direction and cinematography are

stunning, though Hanson takes
rather moderate advantage of these
strengths. The material, Ellroy’s
novel, is the major factor contribut-
ing to the strengths the ﬁlms does
exploit.

I believe the major problems are .'

all found in the adaptation from
novel to screen.

The story of “L.A. Conﬁdential”
is a complex play of power among
people who live outside of society’s
ethics. Criminals and corrupt cops,
movie stars, prostitutes, pimps and
tabloid reporters. Russell Crowe
(“The Sum of Us,” “The Quick and
the Dead”) plays Bud White, a
tough cop who hates violence

class dues. This is the person who’ll be
knocking on the doors of Graham-Lees, hat
in hand, begging for money. It’s got to be a
face you’ll want to see.

Your E. C. representative of today could

be president of the E. C. tomorrow. You
could make history here, vote for :1 FE-
MALE. There has never been a chick in

the oﬂice of prez. It would cement your
place in history. Put that class of ’0l (affectionately
known as the Millenium Falcons) on the map of Washing-
ton and Lee.
So for better or worse, waste some paper and vote.

9 Catherine Mead, 9 Emily
Ramey, 6 Brent Walker, 6 Carter

\lV1lliarns.

E.C. Representative

Q) Ashley Anderson,
Bianco, ®
Cook, (9 Mike Crittenden, © Tyler
jorgensen, ® Mills Palrn, Kathie
Soroka, ®

(3 Stephanie
Vanessa Chen, G) jeff

Keenan Weston

“It’ll be like
‘Chinatown’

meets

‘The River
Wild’.”

against women and is dedicated to
stopping all of it he can. He’s a
physical powerhouse, solving
crimes often by bringing them to
violent confrontations, which he
wins. Kevin Spacey plays
“Trashcan” Jack Vincennes, the
least developed character, a Holly-
wood cop who is an adviser on a
“Dragnet”-like TV show and who
engineers hi gh-proﬁle busts with
Sid Hudgens (Danny DeVito), the
editor of the tabloid “Hush-Hush.”
And Guy Pearce (‘‘Priscilla, Queen
of the Desert”) is Ed Exley, a
supposedly principled cop trying to
live up to his detective father’s
memory. A mass murder in a coffee
shop, known as the Night Owl
Massacre, and the subsequent
investigation, lead these three men
into conﬂict with each other, a weird
movie-star lookalike prostitution
ring, and L.A. Police Chief Dudley
Smith (James Cromwell of “Babe”).

I understand that things have to
left out of movies made from thick
books when they are transferred to
the screen, but if this redaction is all
that goes on, it’s got to ultimately
fail.

The effort has to be made to
capture the attitude and style of the

ﬁction on screen. By all rights,
“L.A. Confidential” should look
and feel darker, make you laugh at
things that aren’t funny, punch
you in the gut and leave you
breathless. It’s a tall order, but
Ellroy has given the filmmakers
the interesting creative problem of
capturing making such a film.
They largely squander that
potential. They cut too much,
they make it too cute, they invent
devices which are too clever by
half to get across information
they could have conveyed with
dialogue or by picking up the
pace.

There are a few exceptions.
The shootout at the end is a great
scene until the end. Kim
Basinger ’s role is given the kind
of attention it deserves. Spacey’s
performance allows a lot of room
for certain plot points to be
glossed over. And some of the
atmosphere is right, though it’s
choppy.

Overall, “L.A. Conﬁdential” is
a good ﬁlm, probably better to
watch if you haven’t read the
book. But after you’ve seen it, if
you want more, darker, less easy,
check out some uncut Ellroy.

 

seven

7} MONDAY it Winter Term Registration
Begins (if you are a science or history major it
means bonding with others in the registration
line) 71} TUESDAY ‘A’ become one with
your W&L Catalog ‘:2’ WEDNESDAY 11}
go out to the Palms and drink away your night;
it will help you deal with the stress of registra-
tion 7} Biv Markie at Pi Kappa Phi ii}
THURSDAY 7} study so you can go out this
weekend; also make sure you watch “E.R.” and
the rest of Must—See—TV 7% FRIDAY 7} the
HELL ends; Registration is over!!! 71} Go and
see the most awesome Eighties Band ever to

Colonnade Club

play at W&L; The Breakfast Club will play

in the Pavilion at 8 p.m. in the Pavilion wk
Sigma Phi Epsilon will jam with Sideshow Bob
71} SATURDAY 11} Become a more
cultured person  The University
Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra in the
Lenfest Center at 8 p.m. 71} Lambda Chi
Alpha hosts Lambdapalooza I

The Caddy.  

that zigs 

Near the end of September as we were driving back
from Staunton, we tried to stop at The Pink Cadillac for
dinner, but it was closed. A note on the door indicated
that the restau-
rant was “closed
indeﬁnitely due
to staff short-
ages,” but a sign
out on the street
said “Opening
October 1”. We
. were quite con-
fused but went
on our way to ﬁnd
dinner elsewhere.
A short time later
The Trident did
some checking
on this situation
and found that
the restaurant
had undergone a

change in ownership. The Pink Cadillac has now been
open for a month, so we decided to check it out and see if
change was truly bad in this case.

We arrived late on a Thursday night, after Doug’s bal-
let class, to ﬁnd things much the same. Same wonderful
atmosphere, and the same wonderful menu with the addi-
tion of new dinner specials.

The majority of the specials featured “fresh” seafood,
but due to Doug’s issues with seafood we refrained. Ear-
lier in the evening we spotted Steven, our g1i1l—chef friend,
passed out on his couch from low blood sugar, so we
brought him along in an effort to revive his spirits. ,

Robin and Steven both selected the “Elvis” burger,
Robin’s perennial favorite. A double-decker masterpiece
with two patties, a center bun, lettuce, tomato, and a spe-
cial sauce, the Elvis burger typically arrives with a side of
fries. Both paid extra to upgrade to Brew City fries, a Pink
Cadillac specialty.

Doug chose 16 ounces of prime rib (because there is
something about eating a pound of cow), also with the
Brew City fries. To drink the men opted for vanilla
milkshakes, while Robin had a chocolate. Doug also or-
dered a “Route 66” root beer (in the bottle); Steven had
Coca-Cola (in the bottle), and Robin drank Diet Coke (in a
glass).

The beverages arrived and we found that the
milkshakes had changed slightly: they are no longer served.
with whipped cream and a cherry on top. The waitress
now brings the extra shake to the table in the metal sleeve,
however, so you really get your money’s worth.

Next the entrees arrived and our grill-chef companion
proclaimed them all to be properly grilled and well-pre-
pared. The prime rib in particular was cooked to perfec-
tion; the way in which the fat melted down Doug’s throat
was, in his opinion, second to none.

Both burgers were juicy, succulent, and tasty. The

_ special" sauce on the burgers gives them a unique and
pleasing ﬂavor. The Brew City fries, as usual, proved
excellent —— well-seasoned, freshly-prepared, and hot.

Our meal lasted beyond the Pink Cadil1ac’s normal clos-
ing time, and yet we felt no pressure to hurry with our
meals. Our waitress encouraged us to try some of the
tempting desserts, but after such a ﬁlling meal, we had to
decline. ,

The brief drive back to Lexington provided an excel-
lent opportunity to recap a fabulous and plentiful meal.
The Pink Cadillac’s new owner seems to have improved
upon a good thing.

This change appears to be a positive; the staff is friendly
and courteous, and the food is just as good as, if not
better, than ever. Fans of this classic diner have nothing
to fear.

 

Wanted I!!! Individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
Spring Break Travel Packages ’
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS !mM

SPANISH TEACHER WANTED:

yam foofzlrzy/‘or a/oerson wﬂo 113
1})/ere:/ea/1}2 /eacfzlrzy my /5120 C51}/c/ren
/a gay ano/yr/1'/, ayes 6 ano/<5’ res/oec/1'ue@/
CS/OdI2I:S‘£ ygey are go/ﬂéeeng zh/ere:/eJ
anofegwoufofwanl /ﬁe /eac-fer /o co122m17/o
/essons /wice cz wee} azzo//0 /eac-5 /Hem 50/5

a/ lie same //zne,  lﬂal 1'3 /003.315/e.

Please call L. Shank at X8941 if you are interested.

By Hollister Hovey

Ainuiwiwél

’l'l'H9W0?-LD

comma TD? /1‘   Cg
5i°<9"" H3)‘

    

  

Tum ?—P<M
INT 0? E969‘.

 

 

I

R

P

i

 

‘l

ﬂ

1

K

‘.1

‘I

‘D

3

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 7

   
 

Volleyball triumphs
over Eastem
ennonite in nail—biter
to take ODACS.
ﬂit"

Ulie ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

 

  

JAMES G. LEYBURN LlE?.l‘;;‘\R't

‘”"*°’”"”GTON & LEE UN’ ‘ s
LE.x[NmON' VA 24£\éSRSlTY

NOV 1.1199!
Desperate for that Cutie

in Politics 100?
Ms. Etiquette tells you
' What to do.
PAGE 8
Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID

Pennit No.7

Lexington. Va.
Monday

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

Thief strikes again,
students’ cash stolen

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
——*-j?*-* News EDITOR

The unusually high number of
thefts this year have left students
glancing over their shoulders, look-
ing for that suspicious-looking char-
acter lurking in the shadows who’s
waiting to steal their hard-earned

cash. Most likely, though, the cul-
prit is someone who looks just like
you.

“Whoever it is, he must look a
lot like a student,” said Washing-
ton and Lee Security Chief Michael
Young. “This person is not draw-
ing attention, because no one ever
sees anything suspicious at the time
of the crimes.”

An ‘incident Tuesday evening
points to the possibility that the cul-
prit may be a student or someone
who fits in very well against the
W&L backdrop.

Between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m., the
University Chorus and the Univer-
sity Chamber Singers were practic-
ing in duPont Hall, the chorus in
Room 102 and the chamber singers
in Room 104. About 90 people at-
tended and, as usual, they left their

backpacks, purses and coats outside
the room.

Senior Amanda Bradford, a
chamber singer, noticed that her
backpack was missing after prac-
tice. Chamber Singers Director
Gordon Spice found the backpack
in the men’s bathroom soon after-
ward. Bradford checked her wallet
and realized that the $37 was gone.
A few minutes of checking wallets
revealed thatjunior Shelley Adams
and senior Kate Bowdy had also
been robbed.

Adams had $60 in her wallet,
which was on a couch outside the
rooms and covered by her coat and
gloves.

“I had just cashed my paycheck,”
Adams said. “When I picked up my
wallet, it felt empty. And it was.”

Adams found the incident par-
ticularly distressing because the
thief probably knew that the groups
practiced at those speciﬁc times and
that the students usually left their
belongings unattended.

“It was kind of sad the next day
when all of our stuff was in the prac-
tice rooms and not out in the hall,”

Bowdy said. “We’ve been doing it
that way since freshmen year.”

Bowdy had $7 stolen from her
wallet. “I’m glad I don’t carry around
a lot of cash,” she said.

Although Young did not say that
the thief is a student, he reiterated that
it may be someone who looks a lot
like one. i

“If a student picked up a backpack
in the library, no one would think a
thing about it,” Young said.

Because of this fact, it is even
more important for students to keep
belongings with them.

“Whoever this person is, he’s
real, real slick,” Young said.

Young encourages everyone to
report any crimes or anything sus-
picious.

“People have been really good
about calling in,” he said.

Young said security is doing ev-
erything it can to catch the culprit
or culprits, but he refused to give
any speciﬁc details about the hunt.

“IfI told you how we were go-
ing about catching him, [the thief]
could very well read about it in the
newspaper,” Young said.

‘A time to celebrate everything we’ve gone through’:
J unior cadets whoop It
up at Ring Figure Ball

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

Tatterson said. “It makes you proud to realize that you’ve

News EDITOR

made it so far and you don’t have much time to go.”

Every Virginia Military Institute junior has something
so big that it is almost legally considered a weapon.

VMI second classmen received their class rings this
weekend in a Wednesday—through-Sunday extravaganza
called “Ring Figure.” The rings vary in size, but most ca-
dets get the 40 “pennyweight” ring. Anything above this
weight has to be registered as a weapon. _

The ﬁve—day celebration is unparalleled even by Wash-
ington and Lee’s Fancy Dress.

“People get trashed pretty much for ﬁve days,” VMI
junior Willis Tatterson said.

The main event of Ring Figure was a ball Friday night.
All the cadets’ dates were required to wear white dresses.
As the couples were announced, they passed through a
ten-foot replica of the class ring.

“We waited in line for two and a half hours,” Tatterson
said. “I told my date to wear tennis shoes, but she didn’t,
and ended up suffering.”

Cadets claim that Ring Figure is much more than a fancy
ball and is more important than graduation.

“It’s atime to celebrate everything we’ve gone through,”

Most cadets’ parents come for the weekend, while W&L
students would be mortiﬁed if their parents showed up for
FD, cadets think nothing of it.

“Parents have been there for you all through the rat
line supporting you,” Tatterson said.

“You have to be even more supportive than if your
son was going to a regular college,” said Tatterson’s mother
Nancy. “You have to be supportive enough to make him
stay.”

The actual rings the cadets receive stand for the “blood,
sweat and tears” they have endured for the past three years.
Each year, the ring is designed by the class members. One
side illustrates the Institute and the other side tells a story
about the class’s rat year. This year, the Institute side dis-
plays a cadet who fought in the Civil War battle of New
Market.

Cadets have the option of getting a “combat” ring in
addition to the gold one. In the event a VMI graduate is
engaged in combat, they can wear the combat ring, with-
out the fear of damaging the gold one. There were four
proposals Friday night, two before the ball and two as the

I ton and Lee. ,  ,  A

 ‘ ‘I am determined toemak

_ class the jbvesttitcaii be, ,,

 ’Birdwhistell.wonTth, ﬁes
president election ;,by. «
Monday. His

jclipart .s1gns,«,

 

jtures of’TBrad..'P‘i’ _ ‘ ,, V
. ‘McCarthy and sidewalk  ‘But?
‘ this Kentucky native '

ﬁt

a “Bird”: histell‘

couples passed through the ring.

Other cadets buy miniature versions of the ring for their
dates. This practice is seen as a “pre-engagement” and
can be compared to a fraternity member pinning his girl-
friend. Sophomore Amy Kane receive a miniature from
her date, Carl Trask.

“For some couples it is a pre-engagement, but it isn’t
that way with us,” Kane said. “He said that he gave it to
me because he loved me and yada, yada, yada,” she said.

A big privilege for the weekend was the opportunity to

stay outside of barracks, but within Rockbridge County.
Normally, when cadets go away for the weekend, they must
leave the county. Most stayed at the Ramada Inn. Friday
and Saturday nights, tent parties were held at the Red Oak
Inn. Friday night was a DJ party and Saturday featured
“Agents of Good Roots” and a late-night DJ.

However, the weekend was marred by one event. Friday
night, cadet Matt Baswhall was table dancing at the tent party
when his table collapsed. He fell on a broken beer bottle,
severing a portion of his ring finger.

. TGovernment=Association. , j"
 Baldwin is ﬁxated and MPPY
. about her new position and plans‘-to?
address the needsof theclass to the
 best-of her ability. ,

7.t01_1,.NJ."-‘Attefr 9
on lursningja caree as
“Is -6‘ ‘ j

_ “I-feel this is a great way to get *

involved and to serve the class,” she
said. “I’m thrilled to have the op-
) jpfoftunity to represent the class.”
V A “the W&L“ political scene led
Nick Cimino to run for Student Ju-
I jdicial-.Committee justice. . ‘
Q ' R Cimino had confidence in his
djabiiityj to win the office, but he ad-

Katie Baldwin

itedt it if

Counting up the
calories with the
cabbage plan kids

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
—"—-T-— News EDITOR

Crash diets abound at this time of
year, as students strive to lose a few
extra pounds before the holidays. But
do these crazy, quick-ﬁx solutions re-
ally work?

“Crash diets are usually not bal-
anced and doomed to fail,” said Dr.
Jane Horton, Director of Health Ser-
vices. “Your body is eventually go-
ing to crave food, and the weight will
be gained back again.”

Horton warns that crash diets, es-
pecially ones that are high in protein
and low in carbohydrates, can put
stress on the kidneys.

“I recommend a balanced diet that
is high in complex carbohydrates and
lower in protein,” she said.

Horton also emphasizes that exer-
cise is necessary for healthy living and
key to weight loss.

“Ifyou want weight loss, I recom-
mend exercising about an hour a day,

ﬁve days a week,” she said.

“You should change your eating
habits over a long period of time and
find something that you can stick to,”
Tad Stanley, a Health Services nurse,
said. “Some of these crash diets are
dangerous because they can cause
dehydration.”

The Health Center brochures on
healthy eating recomend following the
“food pyramid.”

The pyramid, from top to bottom,
is the following: bread, cereals, rice
and pasta (6-1 1 servings); vegetables
(3-5 servings); fruits (2-4 servings);
milk, yogurt,cheese (2-3 servings);
eggs, nuts, meat, poultry, ﬁsh, dry
beans (2-3 servings); fats, oils, sweets
(use sparingly.)

Sophomore Yulia Gorodetskaya
has gone on a few crash diets, includ-
ing the Slim Fast diet and the Suzanne
Somers diet.



 

PAGE 2

I1€WS

Frosh pull out
the big guns

BY DAN BIRDWI-IISTELL
STAFF WRITER

The war is on — a penny war
that is.

The Freshman Leadership Coun-
cil is hosting the first “Battle of the
Dorms” penny war in Washington
and Lee history from Nov. 10-Nov.
19th. Baker, Davis, Gilliam and each
side of Graham-Lees will be set
against one another to see which dorm
has what it takes to survive.

The rules are simple: for each
penny placed in one’s jug, a point is
given; for each nickel, dime, quarter
or bill placed in a jug, the respective
number of points are deducted. For
example, if Baker had 1000 pennies

and some Graham-Leeser busted out
a quarter and dropped it in the Baker
jug, 25 pointsvwould be deducted
from the Baker clan. Each dorm will
have ajug placed in the D-Hall and
the winners will be presented with
“Battle of the Dorms” banner at the
conclusion of the contest.

The FLC is also selling Krispy
Kreme donuts this week at $4 per
dozen, delivery included. FLC-ers
will be knocking on doors Sunday-
Tuesday to take orders; the donuts
will be delivered early Saturday
morning. All proceeds from both the
donut sales and the Penny War will
go directly to the budget of the Class
of 2001.

Letyourschool
pride fly high

BY WILL HARDIE
——*j-———-- CORY EDITOR

As the flyer reads, “Betsy Ross
did it in 1789, you can do it in
1997!”

Students with even a modicum of
artistic talent now have a chance to
make their mark on Washington and
Lee. President John Elrod has issued
a challenge to design a new set of
University ﬂags. The winning de-
signs will be processed at Univer-
sity ceremonies, and rewarded by
$100 credit at the bookstore.

President Elrod was inspired by
ﬂags at the graduation ceremony at
the University of Virginia. He wants
one ﬂag for the whole university,
one for the Williams School, one for
the Law School and one for the Col-
lege.

“The idea was to try to bring
some color into our commencement
ceremony and to add some ﬂair,”

The ﬂags will be used at Fall
Convocation, Commencement and
Baccalaureate.

Professor Holt Merchant is orga-
nizing the competition. “We
thought that this would be a good
way to involve the student body,”
he said. “It is a much nicer idea than
to pay a consultant who doesn’t
know us. We want someone who
knows us to do it.”

There are no formal guidelines
for design, but Elrod gave a few
hints. “I hope they will be colorful,
perhaps with Latin inscriptions,” he
said. “I hope that the students’ in-
spiration and creativity will bring us
some wonderful designs to choose
from.”

Proposals should be submitted to
Professor Merchant in the Depart-
ment of History, no later than Thanks-
giving break. The winners will be an-
nounced before Christmas break.

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

 

FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE PAT
BUCHANAN TO SPEAK AT W&L

Patrick J. Buchanan, columnist and former presidential candidate, will speak at
W&L on Tues., Nov. 18 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The public is invited to attend
and there will be a reception following the speech in the Great Hall of the Science
Center. The event is sponsored by Contact, the Mock Convention Committee and the
Young America Foundation.

Buchanan has been a senior advisor to three presidents and twice a candidate for
the Republican nomiation for President. He was an assistant to Richard Nixon from
1966 to 1974 and White House Director of Communications for Ronald Reagan from
1985 to 1987. In 1992, Buchanan challenged George Bush for the Republican nomi-
nation for President, and in 1996, he won the New Hampshire primary. He went on
to finish second to Senator Bob Dole with 3 million Republican votes.

After leaving the White House in 1974, Buchanan became a syndicated columnist
and a founding member ofthree ofthe most enduring television political talk shows:
The McLaughlin Group, CNN’s Capital Gang and Crossﬁre.

W&L FILM SOCIETY TO PRESENT LATEST WOODY

ALLEN FILM

Everyone Says I Love You (USA, 1996), an offbeat musical comedy directed by
Woody Allen, is the next ﬂlm society presentation. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m.
on Fri. and Sat., Nov. 14 and 15, in the Troubadour Cinema. There is no charge for
admission, but contributions are welcome.

Everyone Says [Love You is Allen’s 26th film, and his first musical. Cast members
include Allen, Goldie Hawn, Alan Alda, Edward Norton and Natalie Portman.

POET AND DANTE TRANSLATOR TO READ

Allen Mandelbaum, translator, poet and scholar, will read from his work on
Tues., Nov. 18 at 4 p.m. in the Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. The public
is invited to attend this reading, sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Program.

Mandelbaum’s verse translations include Virgil’s Aeneid, Dante’s Inferno and
Homer’s Odyssey.

W&L CONCERT GUILD PRESENTS THE
NETHERLANDS CHAMBER CHOIR, NOV. 17

The W&L Concert Guild will present its second event this season with the Nether-
lands Chamber Choir on Mon., Nov. 17, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

The choir will perform Singet dem Herrn ein neues lied by Bach, Mass in E-Flat,
Op. 109 (Cantas Missae) by Rheinberger, Choral Songs by Mendelssohn, Due
composizioni coralu by pizzetti, Reincarnations by Barber and Del [ubilo del core
che esce in voce by Heppener.

Tickets are required for the Concert Guild Series. For more information and reser-

he Said vations, call the Lenfest Box Office, (540)463-8000.

NORFOLK SOUTHERN MARKETING MANAGER TO I

SPEAK AT W&L, NOV. 20

John M. Kraemer, marketing manager for the agricultural division of Norfolk South-
ern Corporation, will speak at W&L on Thurs., Nov. 20, at 7 p.m. in Room 327 ofthe
Commerce School. The topic of his talk will be “Transportation: Marketing pi
Perpectives From The Inside Out.” A question and answer session will follow the
lecture. The public is invited to attend.

UNIVERSITY SCHOLARS PRESENTS ‘STATE OF THE

DISCIPLINE LECTURE SERIES’

The University Scholars will present the first in the 1997-98 “State ofthe Dicipline
Lecture Series” Wed., Nov. 12 at 7:30 p.m. in duPont Auditorium. The lecture will
be given by Professor Ellen Mayock and is titled, “Latina Writers: Bicultural
Contruction.” The public is invited and refreshments will follow the lecture. 9 (

SCHOLAR TO SPEAK ON CHINESE CULTURE

“Privledged and imperiled: Children of the Han Court” is the title of the lecture that will
be given by Anne Behnke Kinney, associate professor of Chinese at the University of
Virginia, on Tues., Nov. 18, at 4:30 p.m. The lecture, which is sponsored by the East Asian
Studies Program at W&L, is open to the public. 9

—Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik ’

 DIET
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

The Slim Fast diet “guarantees” that
you will lose ﬁve pounds in ﬁve days.
Gorodetskaya lost three.

The Suzanne Somers diet entailed
complicated combinations of food
groups on specific days.

“I didn’t lose any weight with that
one,” she said.

Senior Erin Rosencrans has used the
“cabbage soup” diet. The diet lasts for a
week, and you can eat as much cabbage
soup as you want all week, mixed with
different combinations of fruits, vegetables
and some meat and chicken.

“You lose seven to ten pounds, but it
makes you really tired,” Rosencrans said.
“And you have to start eating normally
‘very slowly, or else you get sick.”

Then there are those who turn to more
inventive measures. An anonymous se-
nior purchased a bottle of “Body Sculp-
ture” thigh cream from a magazine, which
is guaranteed to “make your body of work
of art.” The bottle claims that “individu-
als in one study lost  three to six inches
from their thighs with no skin rashes.”

“It’s made my skin really smooth,” the
senior said. “But I think it was probably a
waste of money. I think I’m going to send
it back.”

For more information about healthy
eating and correct methods of weight loss,
stop by the Health Center and check out
the many brochures available.

Featuring Balanchine’s
Concerto Bzzrocco 65'
Butler’s Czzrminzz Burzzmz

Nov. 10th & 11th
8:00 p.m. ° Lenfest Center
Tickets' 463-8000
$3 for W&L students, faculty 8C staff

 

W&life

 

 

   

, NOVEMBER 10, 1997 PAGE 3
F
F
F
!

BY ERICA PROSSER STAFF WRHER D-ryde. The one and only.” brother and her mother, as well.

Senior Stephen Osborn had more of a story to tell about his old plate, Gasparovic had a story about the confusion her nickname has caused.

   SGL-GUY. “When I was in the 6th grade, my class was at our end of the year picnic

I ' ' “Well, I had a vanity plate sophomore year which read SGL GUY (Single and everyone was swimming,” she said. “My dad yelled ‘Snake’ to get my

It’s not a foreign language, and it’s not a strange new government
code. These are examples of some of the vanity plates found on the cars of
W&L students. How many students have vanity plates? The plates seem
to run rampant in the student parking lots, but Mike Young, Director of

Guy). This, of course, referred to, well  the fact that I was eternally single,”
he said. “Shortly after I got [the plates], I met a girl and, well  the plates had
to go. Funny thing though, after I got rid of the plates, she got rid of me. So
now I have those very boring, very plain all white Virginia plates, but, hey, at

attention, and 6th graders starting running out of the river because they thought
that there was a snake in the water. I couldn’t figure out what was going on
because I just answered out of habit.”

,1, W&L security, said that there really aren’t many W&L students with per-

sonalized plates this year.

“In fact, there are probably more professors with vanity plates than

students.” he said.

For the few out there who might not know, vanity plates are personal-
‘ ized license plates for cars. For a fee, people can decide what their little
metal placard says. Some people choose to reveal their name, their person-
ality, or even their hair color in the seven or eight letter space. Several online
websites specialize in vanity plates by offering examples of interesting mes-
sages and stories (the most common vanity plate, incidentally, is the kind

least I am still the single guy.”

Colleen McFeely (’98 L) has plates that come from a nickname she earned

in the Navy.

“My license plate is ‘FRGIE’ - stands for Fergie,” she said. “They give you

call-signs (nicknames) in a Navy aviation squadron. You know, like in Top Gun.
Anyway, when I was stationed at a Navy F-14 squadron, they started calling me
Fergie, because somebody thought I looked like her (Sarah Ferguson)?’

Junior Dale Pretila has plates that aren’t even his. Well, half of the plates
are his. The plates were personalized to his brother because the car was his
brother’s before it was his.

 

Gasparovic chose SSSNAKE because SNAKE was already taken in Mary-
land, her state.

Don’t be fooled by imitations in the world of vanity plates. Mike Young
mentioned that some Virginia plates that look special may not be vanity plates.
Rather, they are the special Virginia—issue plates that always begin with “W&L,”
in honor of the school. The next three letters or numbers in the sequence may
or may not be chosen by the car’s owner. ‘

Senior Maggie Wooldridge doesn’t have a vanity plate like most people,
but her plate is still out of the ordinary. It looks like a Texas flag, and it says
“Texas, State of the Arts” at the bottom.

“We ordered it through the museum of ﬁne arts in Houston,” she said.

4
with the names of a couple on it, like DAN N JAN or BOBANDJ O). “On the back, the vanity plate reads NOEL, which is my brother’s name,” Similar special-order plates without personalized letters or numbers exist
Some campus plates are pretty obvious: W&L or W&L l, for example, he said. “On the front, however, is a neat plate that reads MINE.” in most states for a higher fee than standard plates. One that appears fre-
stand for the institution of higher learning we call home. Others could use Second-year law student Shannon Gasparovic’s plate is a name her fa- quently in Virginia, for example, is the “Save the Chesapeake” plate that fea-
some explaining. ther coined for her. tures Chesapeake Bay wildlife on a blue background. Those who buy this
4 Sophomore Denise Wallin said that her plate, D RYDE, is pretty simple “My license plate (‘SSSNAKE’) is because my father has called me ‘Snake’ plate are also making a donation to the Save the Chesapeake Foundation.
to understand. since I was an infant,” she said. She doesn’t know why her father chose this While not every strange plate on campus can be explained, at least some
“It’s because my name is Denise and it’s my ride,” she said. “It’s the name, and he claims that he doesn’t know, either. He has pet names for her of the confusion has been cleared up.
1
4.
R
WHAT do you get for the student who has everything? Vanity plates complement students ' sport utility vehicles and provide an excellent way to give useless information to complete strangers. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR
i.

Liberty Hall is the site of ritual gatherings
* DEBAUCHERY AT THE RUINS

CD This weekend is the last tail-
gate of the year. By the way, the
Generals will play Swarthmore
down on Wilsongﬁeld.

I BY KELLEY Torn~:N

STAFF WRHE2

t’s Saturday, 11 a.m. and you’re ironing.

Preparing for an interview? No, you’rejust

“ etting ready to head out to Liberty Hall

ruins with the rest of Washington & Lee’s stu-

dent body for an afternoon of socializing and

drinking. Oh yeah, and for the first half of a
football game.

This Saturday will be W&L’s last tail-

gate of the season, which coincidentally is

the last home football‘ game this year. W&L

students don’t really question the purpose

V of this Saturday afternoon tradition. They

dress up, head to the ruins, drink, and dis-

. perse. Some go to the football game; some

go home.

“At W&L, [the tailgate’s purpose] is to
socialize —— to see and be seen,” said Alison
Rohas, senior, who transferred her sopho-
more year from University of Virginia.

“It’s a different culture there com-

,1 pletely,” she said. “Fall focuses around
‘ football at UVA. Here, it’sjust sort ofa nice
little addition.”

Tailgates at UVA and other big schools are
merely the precursor to the football game. Its
intent serves to boost school spirit and excite-
ment, along with alcohol levels. The games also
become a community event. Alumni return for
every game, notjust Homecoming.

In Alabama, Auburn University football fans
show their spirit through their
devotion to the school mascot. 
Home games at Auburn trans-
form the small town into a cha-
otic mass of“War Eagle fever.”

“Random shouts of ‘war

I think we ’re better
than other schools.

pressive, said Jon Hughes, junior. He visited
friends at University of Notre Dame during Read-
ing Days in October.

“30,000 people in the parking lot is over-
whelming,” he said. “But it’s not as classy as
we do it. And it’s harder to get beer.”

W&L students may not have the numbers
or the spirit, but they do have
class. The guys sport their
“uniform” of khakis with
W&L belts, white button-
downs and ties. The women
have more options, but few

eagle’ can be heard all around We get dolled up stray from the safety of the
you,” said Auburn senior Kim- standard sundress or “some-
berly Collins, “from little kids and lookpretly and thing black.”
yelling it to you from the street Sl’l0W oﬂour co0kie- “I think we’re better than
to people just saying it in pass- cutter c[0theS_ other schools,” said Tim Zink,
ing in place of‘hello’.” senior. “We get dolled up
The entire population and look pretty and show off
clothes itself in blue and or— - Tim Zink our cookie-cutter clothes.”

ange garments. Future genera-

tions of Auburn graduates

come to games with their fami-

lies, dressed as cheerleaders and football play-
ers. The bigger the game, the bigger the ma-
nia surrounding it.

“For really big games, some people set up
‘camp’ in their R.V.s a week in advance and hang
around campus until after the game,” Collins said.

The spirit, multiplied by the thousands of
fans, can make the tailgates at big schools im-

CASEY HUKE, ‘O0, enjoys the tailgate during Parents Weekend. H011./sT1;R H()I’7;'Y/PHOYI) EDITOR

The absence of beer at

,9 W&L tailgates is one of the

most obvious differences be-

tween W&L and other schools. Students can be

found mixing, shaking and stirring drinks at Lib-
erty Hall, but never pumping a keg.

W&L students do not stoop to using as-
phalt; parking lots are for cars. The ruins pro-
vide a scenic backdrop for everyone’s Kodak
moments, as well as unifying the student body
in one location.

“At UVA, there is no real area where ev-
eryone can gather,” said Rohas. “I just like
the designated area here where we can all hang
out together.”

At Wake Forest University, a liberal arts
school in Winston-Salem, N.C., with approxi-
mately 3,600 students, undergraduates relate to
W&L students’ attitudes. Tailgates provide a fun
excuse to party away from the Friday and Satur-
day night fraternity parties, said WFU senior
Kristin Thompson. The tailgates bring everyone
together in a relaxed atmosphere where conver-
sation is the primary medium of entertainment.

“Unfortunately at Wake, I don’t know iftail-
gates boost school spirit,” said Thompson. “Our
football team sucks so no one goes into the
game. But we still love Wake Forest, so in that
sense parties make you appreciate your school.”

If school spirit equates to enthusiasm for
tailgates, then W&L students are bursting with
pride. But for many, it’s the socializing and alco-
hol, not the football, that generates excitement.

“We should have [tailgates] every week-
end,” said Laura Knapp, junior, “regardless of
football games.”

MEGAN
JOHNSON

UPCOMING ROLE: Meg (“Crimes ofthe Heart”)

Johnson’s performance of Meg will be the culmination of her Senior
Thesis Project. The play is about three sisters who return to their home-
town to face their “crimes.” Johnson chose “Crimes of the Heart” for
her project because of its strong female roles. “lt’s a very introspective

but funny show,” she said.
OPENING NIGHT: Feb. 6

 

FIRST ROLE: Max (“Where the Wild Things Are”)

PREVIOUS LENFEST ROLES: Maid (“She Stoops to Conquer”),
Monkey (“Faust”), Lydia (“Children of a Lesser God”), Ann (“Present
Tense”), Maria (“Uncle Vanya”)

REPUTATION EARNED THROUGH PERFORMANCES:
“In almost every show I’ve been in, I have taken off some article of
clothing.”

HOURS PER WEEK SPENT IN THE THEATER: 10-30 hours
(depending on rehearsal schedules)

“It’s a love/hate relationship. I feel if you really have a love of theater,
you stick with it. Sometimes you complain about it, but when it’s not
there, there’s an empty space in your life.”

MOST HUMOROUS EXPERIENCE ON STAGE: During the
One Acts last year, Johnson played a teenage girl in “Present Tense.”
In one scene, she was in bed with her boyfriend. The stage was dark so
the audience couldn’t see what was happening, but the lines were very
suggestive: ‘No, I do11’t want to.’ ‘Why?’ ‘Because.’ ‘But why not?’ It
was a humorous scene, but during one show, the audience seemed to
ﬁnd it extremely amusing. After the show, Johnson found out what
everyone found so funny. When the male character asked Johnson,
“Why not?" Johnson’s father answered, “Because her father is in the

, audience.”

OTHER MAJOR: Broad-
cast Journalism

Johnson combined her tele-
vision production skills and
her dramatic talent during
Spring Term last year. Star-
ring in her own production
of the MTV game show
“Singled-Out,” Johnson
filled the role of Jenny
McCarthy.

AFTER GRADUATION
PLANS: Johnson plans to
save money for a “bi g move”
to the West Coast where she
will try screen work for five
years. “It will be my make-it-
or-break—it time.”

 

Jonson, with an Leavy ( 97)
—Comp1led by Fmnues Iilztor 711ml) Grant

  
   

  

“No one can telliyou how to act. It's something
Within you that you have to find.” — Megan Johnson

 

PAGE 4

 

RESULTS

Football (3-6)
Sat.: ..W&L 17
Emory & Henry 27

Volleyball (16-9)

Sat.: Guilford 1
W&L 3
Sat.: E. Mennonite 2
W&L 3

Men’s Soccer (11-6)
Tues.: Hampden-S 1
W&L
Sat.: Va. Wesleyan
W&L

F-‘l\)l~J

Men’s X-Country
1st place at ODAC Toumey

Women’s X-Country
2nd place at ODAC Toumey

Men’s Swimming (1 -1)

Sat.: W&L 127
Centre 70

Women’s Swimming

(1 -1)

Sat.: W&L 118

Centre 79

AHEAD

Football
Sat.: Home at 1:30
vs. Swarthmore

Swimming
Sat.: at Swanee

Wrestling
Tues.: VMI Keydet
Invitational

Cross Country
Sat: Regional Champs

Soccer
ﬁnishes
second

CHRIS KAUFI-‘MAN
STAFF Wnrrnz

The men’s soccer season ended
abruptly Saturday afternoon as Wash-
ington and Lee surrendered a 2-0 loss
to Virginia Wesleyan in the semiﬁnal
round of the ODAC tournament.

With less than ﬁve minutes ticked
off the clock, the Generals gave up a
goal to Virginia Wesleyan’s Nathan
Hatcher. The Generals put up a val-
iant effort to comback, out-shooting
Virginia Wesleyan 15-8, but were un-
able to find the back of the net. Vinnie
Scullio made the score 2-0 in Virginia
Wesleyan’s favor late in the first half,
and the Generals were unable to re-
spond with a goal of their own. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan advanced to the finals,
and the Generals returned with over-
all record for the season of 1 1-6.

The 1997 fall proved to be a mix
of triumph and disappointment for the

<DSeeSOCCERpage5

sports

 

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

Generals capture ODACs

Volleyball wins
second crown
behind Beard’s
51 assists

BY KEITH WEIDNER
MT STAFF \WRITER

The W&L volleyball team captured
the school’s second conference cham-
pionship Saturday, beating Eastern
Mennonite in a ﬁve-set thriller.

The Generals accomplished what
they have failed to do the last two sea-
sons, which is win the regular season
crown as well as the more important
tournament championship. They ended
the season with a 19-9 record, courtesy
of a nine game winning streak to con-
clude the season.

The top-seeded Generals beat East-
em Mennonite on October 30 to earn
the regular season conference crown.
Mennonite put up a better ﬁght in the
rematch, but W&L won 15-13, 5-15,
16-14, 14-16, 15-11. Senior Ali Beard

AS THE GUN sounds, the men ’s cross country team takes oﬂ toward the third lowest score in ODAC history.

had 51 assists and sophomore Nancy
Reinhart added 16 kills to lead the Gen-
erals. Seniors Hilary Martin and Holly
Thomsen also added 13 kills each.

“Winning the championship my se-
nior year is so awesome,” said
Thomsen. “This was an extremely dif-
ﬁcult tournament, but our determina-
tion and especially our strong defense
won it for us.”

In the quarterfinal match, the top-
seeded Generals faced Emory and
Henry. Behind the offensive leadership

Ho1.L1SrER H0 VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

of junior Megan Snodgrass and
Reinhart, who each totaled 14 kills,
W&L won the match 15-4, 15-12, 13-
15, 15-2. They had to battle through
the temporary loss of Martin, who was
injured late in the ﬁrst game. The Gen-
erals struggled in games two and three
without her, though she came back in
the fourth game to help the Generals
crush E&H 15-2. Thomsen added 12
kills and Beard 42 assists to the offen-
sive attack, while the defensive leaders

were freshman Melissa Williams, who
had ﬁve blocks, and Reinhart, who had
19 digs. In limited action, Martin con-
tributed ﬁve kills and three blocks.

In semiﬁnal action, the Generals
faced Guilford, the team that ended their
23 game ODAC regular season win-
ning streak, which had dated back to
1995, in mid-October. Many on the
team credit that loss to a change in atti-
tude for the Generals.

“Before our loss to Guilford, we

Football loses heartbreaker to
Emory & Henry 27-17

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

u

Coming into yesterday’s game, the Generals hadn’t
defeated the Emory & Henry Wasps since 1982. In 1982
most of this freshman class was about three years old,
Ronald Reagan was in ofﬁce, and a guy named Mike.Jor-
dan was playing for the North Carolina basketball team.

For the ﬁrst three quarters of yesterday’s game at E&H
it looked as though the string of 14 consecutive losses to
E&H might come to an end. With less than 10:00 to go in
the game, the Generals led 17-6 but a fourth quarter col-
lapse which included four W&L turnovers led E&H to a
27-17 comeback win. The win also extended the Wasps
home winning streak to 32 games, the second longest cur-
rent home winning streak next to Nebraska.

The Generals scored on their ﬁrst drive of the game as
a scrambling Christian Bachelor found freshman tailback
Wesley Sayers in the back of the endzone to give the Gen-
erals a 7-0 lead. The Wasps responded near the end of the
1st quarter when Chris Helvey ran three yards for a touch-
down but the extra point sailed wide left and the Generals
still led 7-6.

In the second quarter Batchelor was intercepted by the
Wasps’ Gerald Jones who ran the ball back 59 yards for
an apparent E&H touchdown. The touchdown was called
back because of a holding penalty on the run back, but the
Wasps still had the ball on the Generals’ 12-yard line.
Minutes later it looked as though the Wasps had scored
again, but a holding penalty called back another potential
E&H score.

The Generals defense than forced the Wasps to turn
the ball over on downs and then drove 74 yards to set up a
Matt Holbrook 24-yard ﬁeld goal and the Generals led
10-6 at halftime. Penalties would plague the Wasps all
day long as they would ﬁnish with 13 penalties for 115
yards.

In the second half, the Generals gained even more
momentum as Christian Batchelor threw a incredible 78-
yard touchdown pass to J .T. Malatesta. Malatesta simply
outran his man on a ﬂy pattern and went all the way for
the score. The Generals defense would keep the E&H
offensive attack in check until the fourth quarter as nu-

STAFFWRITER

merous players stepped up to shut down the Wasps on
critical 3rd and 4th down plays. All phases of the game
were clicking for the Generals and it looked as though
they might pull off the improbable upset.

But then there was the fourth quarter. The disaster
began when the Wasp’s leading rusher, Oliver Jordan,
returned to the game after missing the ﬁrst half of the
game with an injured knee. Jordan helped the Wasps drive
56 yards for a touchdown; the drive was capped off by a
6-yard scramble by senior quarterback Aaron Brand for
the touchdown.

Then, with less than 6:00 to go in the game and the
Generals up 17-14, freshman Wesley Sayers fumbled the
ball on his own 3-yard line where it was recovered by the
Wasps. E&H converted on the turnover and took the lead
21-17 after a Chris Helvey two-yard touchdown run.

The Generals looked like they were going to regain
the lead as they drove 62 yards down the field, but
Batchellor was intercepted by Issac Williams on the E&H
14-yard line after the pass was batted up into the air. The
Generals got the ball back with 2:00 left but Batchellor
threw 4 straight incomplete passes and the Wasps got the
ball back and put the game away after Helvey ran 24 yards
for his third touchdown of the game. The extra point was
blocked.

It was a hard loss for the Generals to swallow as they
led for almost all of the game. Until the four turnovers in
the ﬁnal quarter the Generals played nearly a ﬂawless
game. It was a great effort by the Generals on both sides
of the ball. The Generals ﬁnish out the season next week
at Wilson ﬁeld against Swarthmore.

 Sitatsi        .

. lst Rushes- Passing Off. Plays- Tm,
* Downs Yards Yards Yards .

E&Il17 60-232 59711 76-329 ‘f 33:46
W&L 17: 21-22 304 65-326 26:14

Club Hockey revived, looking for a win

RING-TUM PHI WIRE SERVICE

ashington and Lee’s ice
hockey program is off to a
promising start this season

despite its 0-2-1 record.

Plagued in the early few weeks by
injuries and schedule conflicts, the
young team has shown plenty of po-
tential to make the rest of this year as
exciting as their electrifying come-
back against rivals VMI.

The biggest problem for W&L has
been getting a full lineup on the ice.
Several team members’ equipment did
not arrive in Lexington until after the
second game, and scheduling conﬂicts

such as homecoming weekend left the
Generals short-handed in each of their
ﬁrst three games.

The highlight of the season so far
was the homecoming weekend game
against undefeated VMI. The Gener-
als put up only six skaters against
VMI’s three full lines. After leading
most of the game, a weary W&L al-
lowed VMI to charge to an 8-5 lead
in the third period. Down by two, with
just over three minutes remaining in
the game, the Generals rallied to a tie.
Senior Dave “Brewsky” Bruett scored
both goals, the first on an awesome
end to end play started by a perfect
pass from junior George Urban. VMI

was left stunned by the comeback.
The ﬁrst three games were a tre-
mendous learning experience for the
team. Never having played together
and not having an ice rink for prac-
tice placed the team at an immediate
disadvantage to the rest of the league.
The Generals have come together,
though, and expect a great season.
Bruett and sophomore Jamie Buckley
are the team’s offensive sparkplugs,
scoring a majority of the goals in the
ﬁrst three games. Urban is due to bust
out of his goal-scoring drought, hav-
ing hit two posts and a cross-bar this
season. Freshman Brian “The Long
Island Goon” Bagdonas leads the team

in penalty minutes, putting fear into
the Generals’ opponents.

Senior Doug Panzer has made key
contributions along with Bryan
Petrilla, Brooke deRosa and Jeff
Sloan. Steve Bucci, who suffered a
broken toe in game one, should return
to the line-up soon.

The Generals return to action at
the Roanoke Civic Center on No-
vember l9th at 8:45 p.m., against
Roanoke College. The team is ﬁred
up and hopes to see a few fans in
the crowd. Parking and admission
are free. Bring your own refresh-
ments. There is no security to check
your backpack.

were a complacent team. After that
game, our attitudes changed. We real-
ized that we weren’t going to have the
season we expected to have if we con-
tinued our lackluster approach to vol-
leyball,” said Thomsen.

Guilford was the only conference
loss of the year for the Generals. W&L
avenged that loss with a 15-10, 14-16,
15-1 1, 15-6 victory. Reinhart led the
offense with 23 kills. Beard had 47 as-
sists, while Thomsen had 15 kills.

Callen grabs
individual title,
Cross Country

dominates
13‘I_MAlT_MlIE5‘E.LL_

STAFF Wanna

The Washington and Lee men’s
cross country team dominated the
ODAC Championships Saturday en
route to a score of 26, the third lowest
in conference history.

With a time of27:07, senior Jason
Callen won the overall title earning
ODAC runner of the year honors.
Along with Callen, senior Will Olson
who placed second, freshman Alex
Taylor who ﬁnished ﬁfth, and senior
Greg Ruthig who came in sixth all
earned All-ODAC honors.

Other top ﬁnishers for the Gener-
als were Darrick Alford who ﬁnished
10th and senior Taylor Shultz who f'm-
ished 11th.

The W&L women’s cross country
team ﬁnished second to Lynchburg
College by only five points, 35-40, at
ODAC Championships on Saturday.

Junior Natasha Dorofeeva and se-
nior Carson Flowers ﬁnished second
and fourth respectively to earn All-
ODAC honors for the Generals. Other
top ﬁnishers for the team were Lisa
Brennan who finished 10th, Jana
Heisler who ﬁnished 1 1th, and Ashley
Smith who finished 13th.

Both teams compete Saturday at
the NCAA Regional Championships.

  

We are the Champions . . .

CHI OMEGA (T.-1/’I'URl:'1) rm; 1 997 woM1;N'.s‘ INTRAMURAI. BASKEIBAL1,

CHA/\1I’I()NSHI1’.

THI5 A/ll;‘N IS INIIt.»lr’\{URAI. 'IENNI.S' FLA Y()I"I7S BEGIN THURSDAY, WITH THE

('THAIt1I’I()NSI‘III’ T() HE PLA Ylil) NI:)\7'.?lI()r\'I)AY AT 40 I’.M. IN THE TENNIS CENTER.

It is that time of year again to re-
cap the accomplishments of the W&L
fall sports teams. They can be
summed up in one word: fantastic.

One tradition we can always count
on here is our fall sports teams doing
well. Year after year, all of the teams
are at .500 or better by the end of the
season. In fact, we can become
spoiled by their success and not real-
ize how much effort goes into main-
taining a winning tradition. It is never
a problem for W&L to getmotivated
for big weekends and games against
rivals like Roanoke and Hampden-

mance in the games between that
count the most. Judging by their sea-
son records, the fall sports teams did
not have a problem motivating them-
selves against lesser opponents and

of writing on Saturday afternoon, the
teams were a combined 46-22.
What is more impressive is that
four teams had chances to win cham-
pionships this weekend, the last ma-
jor weekend of the fall sports season.
The men ’ s cross country and
women’s volleyball teams captured
their ODAC titles. Although the
men’s soccer team’s dream of an im-
probable ODAC title ended against
Virginia Wesleyan, the team still ﬁn-
ished a hi ghly-successful season with
an 1 1-6 overall record. The women’s

THE BIG FAN
BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER

Genera|s fa"  
were “Fan-tastic,’.’  C

Sydney, but it is the Generals perfor- ‘

non-conference teams. At the time .

cross country team ﬁnished second.

The women’s soccer team’s sea-
son ended last weekend, and it too
had a terriﬁc 1997 campaign. The
Generals had their best season ever,
establishing a‘ season record with 14
wins against only two losses. Un-
fortunately, one of those losses came
in the ODAC semiﬁnals, which
eliminated the Generals from the con-
ference toumament and a chance at
the NCAA tournament :

The men’s soccer team knew it
would have a tough time moving up
the ladder in the ODAC tournament,
seeded sixth, but that did not stop it
from knocking off nationally-ranked
Hampden—Sydney along the way.
Aﬁer three straight heartbreaking 2-
1 overtime losses, the Generals this
time made their one goal stand up,
prevailing 1-0 when a last-second H-
SC ﬂee kick sailed high.

It took the volleyball team (most
of the season to ﬁnd itself, but when
it did, the rest of the league had no
chance. The Generals rolled off eight
straight wins near the end of the sea-
son to win their third straight regu-
lar-season title and the ODAC cham-
pionship. A bigger problem for the
team will come after the season
when it must decide how to replace
the senior trio of Hilary Martin,

BIGFAN pages

 

 

  

NOVEl\/[BER 10, 1997

The sulfuric dance of.
the little people

A tel‘evis‘io'n rests, inert, on a me-
tallic foot _locker in my dorm room.
Its screen displays nothing but static
since it is not connected to the exte-
rior cable service yet. However this
does not prevent me from collapsing
on my bed and turning on the televi-
sion. Contrary to what you may be-
lieve, observing static is not that un-
interesting; in fact, I ﬁnd it more
stimulation than many of the altema-
tives offer by cable (e.g. any show un-
fortunate enough to be part of ABC’s
“TGIF”).

    

During one of my periods of re-
laxation in front of the static machine,
the static faded away to reveal a tele-
vision show “already in progress” (I
knew this because a disembodied
voice had just told me so). This show
consisted of an outrageously tall man,
who conversed with one of the little
people, who I believe to be elves, but
I am told that they are “midgets”. I
have also been told that I should not
refer to these people by either of these
two descriptions. I am not sure what
these little people prefer to be called,
I have heard that they should be re-
ferred to as vertically challenged, but
I am sure that this must be a joke.

At any rate, the conversation be-
tween the two men went as follows:

Disembodied voice: This program
has been taped in front of a live stu-
dio audience.

Tall Man: What does it mean to
you?

Short Man: What does what mean
to me?

T: What do you mean?

S2 What is this “it” of which you
ask?

T: Well, “it” is: ( life, human ex-
istence, this conversation, Piaget’s
occlusion, the concept of microscopic
civilizations, etc, etc, etc. . .).

S: I’m sorry, were you just speak-
ing in parentheses?

T: Yes, I was. Why?

S: I cannot understand language
which is enclosed within parentheses.
You see, the first parenthesis is like a
language encryptor, which transforms
all words that follow, into nonsense

T: Well, that makes things very
difﬁcult.

S: How so?

T: The “it” I discussed earlier is
defined within parentheses; therefore,
it is impossible for me to explain it to
you.

S: Well, what should we do now?

T: How about the “Sulfuric Dance
of the Little People”

Before the short man can object, a
bucketful of concentrated sulfuric acid
splashes down from above. The short
man begins a reﬂexive series of gyra-
tions, as the sulﬁiric acid begins to
burn his ﬂesh.

This “Sulfuric Dance of the Little
People” was a huge success with the
“Live Studio Audience”, who ex-
ploded with a mixture of laugher and
applause with the short man’s ﬁrst
gyration. Even I sensed a slight grin
cross my face, for although I knew the
short man was inpain, his dance was
just too humorous to resist. He was
exactly like a giant dancing koala bear
that I had once seen, but that is an-
other story entirely.

Heading

Gt C€t€I' 21

PAGE 5

towards

the real world

I’m getting old. Now, I realize ev-
ery administrator and professor who
reads this paper is now rolling around
on the floor in hysterics at that state-
ment, but please bear with me. I’m
working towards my point. This real-

From a Bar Stool
Eric Swensen '98

ization hit me on Thursday. My after-
noon class had been canceled. It was
cold, rainy and dreary outside, so I
went back to my house. Unfortu-
nately, it has no insulation. Fortu-
nately, I had to do some laundry, so I
could sit next to the dryer for warmth.
Anyway, I was enjoying the silence
when my sister called me. She’s 17
and a senior in high school, but my
enduring memory of her is as a kin-
dergartner. It was the only time the
two of us were together in the same
school. I can still remember the ﬁrst
day of school that year when she and
her pigtails and bright, beaming smile
broke out of a line of little moppets to
come running over to me to say hi.
Since I was a big, tough ﬁfth grader, I
was incredibly embarrassed then.
Now, it brings a smile to my face.
Of course, that memory gets harder
and harder to hold onto every time I
talk to her. We talked Thursday for
twenty minutes, and she told me about
her college applications and the party
she threw while our parents were
down here visiting me. Specifically,
she told me how she got drunk, threw
up all over herself and broke one of
my mom’s vases. That, and she

doesn’t have pigtails anymore.

Just like my sister isn’t a kinder-
gartner anymore, things are changing
for me as well. I turned 21 this week-
end, and I’m sure at some point dur-
ing the weekend I fell off my bar stool.
It’s all happening too quickly. My sis-
ter should be at home with a baby sit-
ter, and I should be in the woods be-
ing chased by cops breaking up a high
school keg party. Instead, college
went by in about ﬁve minutes, and
now I’m faced with finding a career
and deciding what I want to do with
the rest of my life. Young people don’t
worry about this kind of crap. They
think from minute to minute, not years
down the road. Young people (young
men, at least) worry about if the beer’s
cold and if that young woman on the
dance ﬂoor in that short skirt is dat-
ing anybody.

Careers don’t come complete with
a Parents Weekend and Spring Term.
If you miss class two or three times a
term, your attendance record is exem-
plary. If you don’t show up for work
two or three times every twelve
weeks, you’ll probably get ﬁred.

This is life’s biggest transition. In
June, I’ll be starting out on my own,
hopefully with a job, hopefully with an
idea of where I’m going and how the
hell to get there. Right now, the only
thing I know, or at least I’m fairly cer-
tain of is that I’m graduating in June.
The rest is a big mystery. That scares
me to death.

My suggestion to everyone who’s
not graduating this year is this: Enjoy
the ride. And start looking at graduate
schools.

5.2,.) BIG FAN
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

Holly Thomsen and Alison Beard.
That will be next to impossible, con-
sidering that the Generals have lost
only once at home in the last three
years with that trio on the court.

If there is one W&L sports tra-
dition to count on, besides the fans
staying for only the first half, it is
the football team’s habit of starting
slow and ﬁnishing fast. Although
the team started the past three years
at 0-3, 0-2-1 and 1-4, it still man-
aged to finish each season with a
.500 record or better. It will falljust
short this season, but not by much.

Also this fall, the golfteam won
the Randolph-Macon/ODAC Invita-
tional en route to being ranked 19th
in Division III, and the men’s cross
country team captured the State
Championships. In tennis, junior
Dale Pretila took fourth place in Di-
vision III men’s singles, and seniors
Berry Blankinship and Ericka
Shapard finished sixth in Division
III women’s doubles.

A former W&L varsity sports
team, the water polo squad, also had
an amazing season. It definitely
showed with a remarkable 12-2
campaign. Maybe in the process it
turned the heads of those who
thought that the team could not
compete at the varsity level.

While the fall sports teams have
continued their winning tradition in
1997, the winter sports teams usu-
ally have a difﬁcult time following
suit. But optimism runs high at the
beginning ofthe season, and there
is no reason why the winter sports
teams cannot surprise the naysayers.
Congratulations to the Generals on
a successful fall season, and let us
hope that their success can become
a year—round tradition.

Ellie Ring-tum lﬂhi
  ONLINE

http://www. wlu. edu/~phi

Now, using your computer, you can:

- Check the latest campus news, features and opinions
- Check the latest Generals’ sports scores
- Read your favorite columns

- Check U.S. and international papers using our links

- Subscribe or advertise from our online request forms

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬁhi
IT'S JUST THAT EASY

Tuesday

High: 49°
Low: 39°

 

Wednesday

    

High: 47°
Low: 34°

 

High: 45°
Low: 35°

This Week’s Weather:

Thursday Friday

 

High: 47°
Low: 35°

Courtesy’ of the National Weather Service

 

High: 46°
Low: 29°

High: 45°
Low: 30°

Want to do
the “Hippy,
HlPPY
Shake” at
one in the
morning?

Want a

excuse to
fall asleep
in class
Monday
morning?

Ever

Span) your summer in the
Colombo 7€oo.éies

Experience the outdoors and help create
9°°d memories at King Mountain Ranch Resort.
For an application and our summer job
openings call 800-476-5464 or e-mail
hosts@kingranchresort.com

danced

with the
Devil in
the pale
moonlight?

Then work
for The
Ring-tum
Phi.

lIll|‘l|l mountain |l|IlllBl‘S

i 00% Wool Socks
Handmade by North Mountain Knitters

His goals go beyond Friday night blowouts. Which means if he drinks, he does
so responsibly. And that's what BACCHUS is all about. Students helping students
pursue healthy, responsible lifestyles. As a proud supporter of this organization,
Discover Card celebrates all students making their own healthy statements.

Go to www.bacchusgamma.org for more information or
www.discovercard.com/student to apply for a card.

Come to Sidewalk Sale @ 110 W Washington sr. gjfmfgou

‘V 33;dneS_ Fri. Nov. 14 &Sat. Nov. 15, 70-5 ;_+~===
463-7095

3 day night
meeting.

'7-'l‘J“4/ Gii3cri.«iw'u‘, Imxl Cifll wrmv f."iI"Vlip-: l'ilIL'

 

 

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

advertising

there are a variety of industries and business areas you can explore and excel in

 

You°Ve come this far. Now see how much farther you can go at Capital One — a company .
whose phenomenal growth is matched only by that of its employees. We°re more
than just one of the nations largest and fastest growing credit card issuers. Born in and
leading the information age, Capital One is an information-based company that°s bringing
powerful ideas, resources, and technology to scientific marketing, and shaping a variety of
existing and emerging industries. There°s no better place for creative, analytical, and ambitious
people to be. Then again, there°s no company quite like Capital One.

We invite yoy to explore the following  
Management Trainee opportunities now available
at Capital One. '

We will be on campus TONIGHT - Monday, November
10th, for a presentation hosted by
Dan Mortensen, Director of Operations, in Room 114
University Center from 7:00pm-8:30pm.
Refreshments will be served. ~

'   g CapitalOne® ‘

W/vere Information Builds Success.

We are an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in the workplace.
We promote a drug—free work environment.

For more information, visit our web site at www.capitalone.com 1 i

  
 

where one

 

 

PAGE 7

Nov. 10, 1997

It’s a jungle down
at Woods Creek

When we chose Washington and Lee, most

of us thought that we were coming to school in

the temperate Southeast. However, many

students later realized that Lexington is in fact

located in the rainforest. And what a cold and
rainy rainforest it is. Contrary to popular
belief, Lexington receives more anual rainfall
than Brazil.

All kidding aside, this school does not

properly address the fact that it does rain a lot.

In particular, the bridge that residents of
Woods Creek Apartments use to walk to the
library ﬂoods with the ﬁrst drops of rain. The
the little bustling stream of Woods Creek
transforms into a raging torrent, forcing stu-
dents either to wade knee-deep in freezing
water or go all way around to the path behind
the Commerce School. This has caused many
students to be late for class over the years.
The worst is when it rains during the day,
and you attempt to return to Woods Creek via
the back door of the library. Due to the poor

lighting, it is difﬁcult to see until you are right

on top of it that the creek is ﬂooded. One
choice is to walk over the other, higher bridge
that is closer to the law school. This too is

often ﬂooded, and one must perform a balanc-

ing act and walk on the ledge of the bridge

while holding on to the railing. Again, the area

behind Woods Creek East where the second
bridge lets you off is poorly lit, and the two
minute walk back to Woods Creek Central or
West can be frightening, not to mention cold
and wet.

A Phi staff member complained to a dean
and to building and grounds two years ago
about the situation. A few days later, B&G

workers were dredging the creek, in an attempt

to stop the ﬂooding. This was a commenable
act, but it did not improve the ﬂooding for
long. A new bridge needs to be built, before
residents of Woods Creek are carried down-
stream and washed away.

(6

 uote of the Week:

y__ ‘

Student 1: I thought that this was a small,

liberal arts school where you could always get

the classes you wanted.

Student 2: No, that just means that they can
call you by name when they tell you a class is

full.
—two students camping out for
class registration 
U1! 73' 1 1911'
Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
w&lMz Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Business Manager Rebecea Cuny
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown
Asst. Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The
Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phiis otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be
in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center,
by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit
sybmissions for content and length. Letters,
columns and "My Views" do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum P121’ or its
staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: pht@W1u.edu

Give Letitia a
chance; she’s
good to you

There is something you have always wanted to say,
but never had the nerve to say, for fear of being ridi-
culed by your friends. So I will say it for you: Letitia
Pate Evans Dining Hall is a great place to eat.

Alright, maybe you wouldn’t say that, but I would.
I have good reason to say it, too.

} ed Brick Row
 "4 Balsley 99

  

First, the food is usually good. I can ﬁnd some-
thing there every day that I want to eat. Between the
main serving lines and the vegetarian foods, the D-hall
offers three or four different options for each meal, at
least one of which is guaranteed to suit my tastes.

More importantly, the D-hall watches out for your
nutritional needs. If you have good intentions when
you start through the line, you’ll ﬁnd a healthy meal
on your tray when you’re done.

If you don’t like the food as the D-hall serves it to
you, either use it to ﬁx something you will like or ﬁnd
something else altogether. For instance, if that chicken
breast doesn’t seem too appetizing, slice it into strips
and put it over a salad. Or put it on a piece of bread,
add some cheese and marinara sauce from the pasta
bar, microwave it and add another slice of bread for a
chicken parmesan sandwich. Use your imagination.
Get slap-happy wild.

Admittedly, the D-hall serves some of the same
meals over and over again, and yes, they have found at
least seven different ways to feed you french fries (i.e.,
regular, shoe string, curled, criss-cross, crinkle-cut and
steak fries, as well as potato wedges and spiced ver-
sions of some of the above). But considering that the
D-hall serves hundreds of meals three times a day, they
do a great job. Give the D-hall a break: if you don’t
enjoy what’s being served, fmd something you will like.
You can enjoy every meal you eat at the D-hall.

Second, the D-hall has great atmosphere. Unlike
the Co-op, the D-hall is big enough to let you relax.
The columns add a stately feel to your meals. The
people who work there are friendly. Go ahead and talk
to Wanda: she already knows your name, your siblings’
names, your favorite meal and where you like to sit.
You’re in good company at the D-hall.

The the D-hall also gives you the opportunity to play
the D-hall games. For instance, you can eat your choco-
late pudding or mousse while holding it upside down.
You can celebrate if you get a green or pink tray or a
piece of silverware with a pattern. You can nickname
people who eat at the D-hall and compete with your
friends to see who ﬁnds them ﬁrst. You can rock out
to the Hanson or Spice Girls song on the radio.

Third, you can enjoy the D-hall for the effort the
people there put into making your holiday meals inter-
esting. Do you think the employees of a certain hoity-
toity Bostonian Ivy League university dining hall dress
up on Halloween and pass out candy? No! Yet an-
other reason why W&L is better than Harvard.

D-hall always celebrates holidays, which makes
eating there fun. Their decorations and special foods
help to relieve the doldrums of college life. I would
imagine that few other universities offer students a
semi-formal Christmas dinner that includes shrimp.

In addition, the D-hall’s celebration of Martin Luther
King Day is one of the few ways the holiday is hon-
ored on campus.

So give the D-hall another try. If you haven’t en-
joyed dining there before, go back with the intention
of eating a good meal and having fun doing it. With a
little effort, D-hall can be a great place to eat.

Pastries and

So I was sitting in my room, playing with my
Voltron action ﬁgures, when one of my fraternity broth-
ers burst in, complaining about having to ﬁll out a stack
of forms to register our next party. Like I give a damn
about how many forms he has to fill out. So I throw
one of the plastic lions at his head and tell him to shove
off. But later that night I was plagued with a troubling
though — why can’t I get a good knish in this town?

i-3,§:§i<ei»m McManemin ’00

No, wait, that wasn’t the thought. I was actually
wondering when our society turned into such a bunch
of pathetic, litigious little worms. Are there any as-
pects of our lives that aren’t controlled by lawyers? Is
there anything we can do without first having to ﬁll

The Bar Side

?

Professor Frickinfrack’s newest genetic engineering idea, the “Bud”vine, was
even more harebrained than the whole Heinekenopotamus ﬁasco.

Utopia is fading atrW&L

I ﬁrst visited W&L as a senior in
high school about three years ago and
was amazed that there actually was a
place where the students enjoyed their
lives, free from the trendy political
hyper-correctness that was ruining
other campuses nationwide. I also
visited many of the over-rated New
England schools and found miserable
students more worried about whether
they were being offended by another
than actually learning. So when the
time came to chose a college, there
was little debate that the little town in
Virginia would be my home for the
next four years.

:2-.:.: Bl Walker ’99

But over the last two years, this
university has changed. It hasn’t been
dramatic —— the Colonnade is still the
center of learning and khaki is still the
predominant color of campus — but
there is a noticeable difference in feel.
W&L is no longer a carefree commu-
nity of hardworking, fun-loving stu-
dents who never have to worry about
the trivial aspects of life, such as the
administration on the Hill.

But now everything is suspect. It’s
not as if the Hill is bugging our rooms

and passing curfews; the changes have
been more shadowy, more suspicious.
It is as if they were trying to change
things without our knowing. It’s dirty;
it’s underhanded, it’s wrong. More
importantly, it raises the question of
what the Hill really is trying to do with
the future of this school.

A good example of this is the re-
cent freshman class. I’ve met many
of them and they seem to be assimi-
lating relatively well into the W&L
community; that’s not the problem.
The trouble is there are so many of
them. Traditionally, W&L has striven
to maintain an undergraduate student
body of around 1600, or 400 per class.
The recent freshman class, however,
has almost 475 students.

While it would be a great thing to
let all the world experience the nir-
vana of W&L, that many students se-
riously hurts the ability of W&L to
maintain the traditional educational
experience that has made us famous.
Worse, President Elrod doesn’t seem
willing to hire additional faculty to
accommodate this new inﬂux of stu-
dents. Classes have swollen to unnec-
essary sizes, especially in history and
biology, two of the most popular ma-
jors on campus.

If the Hill wants to admit so many
students, they should be willing to hire
the faculty to provide us all with the

education our parents are paying for.

But who’s to say that letting in
more students is a good thing? W&L
has always been able to pride itself on
a small, exclusive student body. While
some people complain about lack of
autonomy, they are drowned out by
the praise of such a close-knit com-
munity. It’s safe to say the vast ma-
jority of W&L students feel lucky that
they are part of a community where
every student can be trusted, even
strangers

That sort of security is only pos-
sible in a small community. Merely
increasing the student body to 2000,
a hundred more students per class,
could prove disastrous to such a dell-
cate trust.

If the Hill does intend to pursue
this policy of increasing the enroll-
ment, it should explain why. I’m not
satisﬁed that anyone has done that.
As the attention of the nation turns
to us in the next few years for our
250th anniversary celebration, we
have a right to know in what direc-
tion they intend to lead this institu-
tion.

Will they totally eliminate frater-
nity drinking or dramatically in-
creasing minority enrollment? Both
seem likely. At this point it is not a
question ofright or wrong; it’s sim-
ply a matter of letting us know.

bureaucratic action figures

out papers? Anyway, if we continue down this slippery
slope of litigation, here is what all future parties will be like:
Hello, and welcome to Delta Iota Kappa ’s semi-an-
nual legally sanctioned co-ed social gathering! But be-
fore we let you in, we ’re going to need you to sign these
forms attesting to the fact that you ’re over 21. Then,
womyn, you ’re going to need to sign form 65 0—B waiving
your right to sue for sexual harassment should some het-
erosexually oriented male person make eye contact with
you. Guys, sign form 650—C. Now, I ’m required to warn
you that our band will be playing at unsafe decibel levels
and that entering the dance floor may put your eardrums
in danger. So if you ’d sign form 744-E waiving your right
to sue for eardrum damage, that would really help us out.
We do have a bar downstairs, but I'm legally required

to inform you that we also oﬂer a wide variety of soft drinks.
Also, we don ’t actually have any alcoholic beer, as the
insurance premiums would be too high, but we do offer a

tasty beer substitute! And we're going to have to cut you
oﬂ at one. Hey, sorry, I don 't make the rules, I just blindly
follow them. Well, that ’s about it. Come on in, and have
fun! But not too much fun! In fact, we ’re going to have to
ask you to sign form 6 77—F, swearing that you will not, in
fact, have any fun at all.

I think it’s time that we as a society put all this silliness
behind us and accepted the dumbass theory of human be-
havior. Basically, some people are dumbasses, and no
amount of laws and forms and papers is going to change
that. Protecting them is just a bad idea from the evolu-
tionary sense. What would Darwin say? He’d tell us to
let the defective genes drink themslves to death, and not
bury everyone else’s lives under mounds of paperwork.

To those of you who argue that every human life is
sacred and precious, I offer two words: Tom Arnold. Think
about that the next time you’re crusading to save lives.
And while you’re at it, find me a good knish.

T     If you could be any member of any band, who would you be?

 

“Maybe Gwen Stephanie or Stevie
Nicks. Or maybe Jewel would be
good...”

—Charlotte Graham ’99 Sic”

‘A.

“I’d like to be Dr. Alex Patterson,
a.k.a. ‘The Orb’ because he ex-
plores the depths of electronic mu-

 

-Daniel Sozomenu ’0l

“One of the Fiolent Femmes. I
don’t know their names, but any
one of them would be cool.”

-Anthony Dvarskas ’99

“I would be Elvis, ’cuz he was the
beginning of a whole era of mu-
sic. That would be cool.”

-Margaret Penn ’0l

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

W&L Diversifies

By W111 Hardie
——-—-——————? Copy Editor

A few Washington and Lee seniors
seem to be doing some grouching.
Apparently the freshman class is a bit
too different, too diverse for some
people’s liking. There aren’t many
specific complaints, and it’s not that
this is a particularly radical bunch of
newcomers, they just don’t seem to
be doing things quite the W&L way.

This is a perennial problem at tra-
ditional institutions. It is almost a law
of nature that those who have grown
fond of a way of life lash out when
they feel that it is threatened. This
reaction is helpful when it stops new-
comers trying to ﬁx things that ain’t
broke. It is dangerous when it stiﬂes
the healthy dynamics of change that
keep institutions alive.

Naturally traditional and conserva-
tive, W&L can be proud of many of
its values: honor, stability, security,
tradition, heritage, excellence. These
qualities to some extent define what
W&L stands for. But they are not
automaticly threatened by novelty.
We must all look beyond what is al-
ready here. W&L is not perfect and it
will not get any closer to being per-
fect if its older students do not let new-
comers try out new ideas.

Diversity unsettles some people.
Part of this is a fear that newcomers
might unwittingly destroy something
valuable, and a feeling that they erode
comforting familiarity.

But on top of this, those who
grumble about change may be strug-
gling not to have to admit to them-
selves that new ways of going about
things might actually be better. Many
seniors are nostalgically aware that
freshmen still have a clear chance to
mold their college years. And if fresh-
men get more out of their college years

while not following in the tracks of
generations, that means that those
who did follow those tracks have
wasted their time. Better make sure
they conform then, just in case.

It has even been suggested that
Freshmen who are not “W&L types”
or who are not prepared quietly to
conform and change, should transfer
to a college which suits them better
rather than try to make this college
suit them. This is a tragic mistake. Di-
versity is crucial for people and for
institutions to ﬂourish.

People thrive on diversity. The
best way to reﬁne your ideas is to
have them challenged by people who
think differently. The best way to learn
about people is to meet as many
people as possible who have lived
different lives, who have seen things
you have not seen and thought
thoughts you have not thought. For
people who only ever meet people like
themselves, social life is an elaborate
hall of mirrors.

Freshmen should not be brain-
washed into generic W&L clones.
They have enough common sense to
see this college’s admirable qualities;
that is probably why they are here in
the first place. Leave the dynamics of
change alone.

W&L is a very homogeneous
place. One advantage of this is that it
is a friendly community. But pride and
homogeneity become a probem when
they constitute an inpenetrable bar-
rier to new ideas.

Institutions are subject to natural
selection. Do not let W&L become a
dinosaur. Be proud of its admirable
qualities but also be prepared to
change. If this college is not open to
diversity, it will be leﬁ by the way-
side. If you are not open to diversity,
you are wasting your life.

 

S€V€i'l

MCINDAY ir 8 p.m. Rich-
mond Ballet at the Lenfest Cen-

ter * TUEDAY ~k Richmond

Ballet at 8 p.m. ~k WEDNES-
DAY*DJatTH((D*Th1J1S-
day ~k watch must see T.V. ~k

FRIDAY ‘A’ Fridays! presents
Puchline in the GHQ at 8 p.m.
~k 5-7:30 p.m. Happy Hour at

KA*DJat2X at SATUR-
DAY * 1:30 p.m. Football

game (tailgating) ~k CDT A —
Agents of Good Roots at Legz

at 2d>E for Caveman -k rock
with Zen Trixters at ZN

Try some ‘Soul Food’

By Alex Christensen

The disturbing trend about Hollywood and black

  

came to mind as I watched this ﬁlm.

Nothing about “Soul Food” is one-dimensional.

people isn’t that Hollywood is willing to pay for
black movies that make money. That’s always
been the case. What is disturbing is that the
black non-buddy comedy ﬁlms Hollywoodrhas
been making lately, which make money, have been
uniformly entertaining and creatively dynamic.

Hollywood has been taking a big chance on
these ﬁlms, ﬁrst, because it senses
that the market for them exists, and
second, because it has no idea what kind of black

ﬁlm will make money. So instead of using the usual proﬁt criteria,

the studios have been entrusting modest budgets to promising tal-
ents and asking only that they not lose money. Far from losing
money, the ﬁlms have proven to be sleeper hits.

But this can’t last. Pretty soon, instead of learning that by giving
chances to talent, they can make money, Hollywood will start lump-
ing black non-buddy comedy ﬁlms into a big pile. We’ 11 have “Wait-
ing to Eat Soul Food” and “Set Up to Exhale.” So skip out to your
local theater now and check out what Hollywood has wrought with-
out even hardly meaning to, before it disappears.

“Soul Food” is ajoyful film about a black family in Chicago whose
life centers around Mama Joe (the fabulous Irma P. Hall), the family .
matriarch, whose abundant spirit and Sunday soul food dinners
keep them together. When Mama Joe’s health is endangered, so is
the life of the family. Ahmad (Brandon Hammond), Mama Joe’s
grandson, tries to bring the family back together despite the ob-
stacles it faces. The family is made up of Mama Joe’s three daugh-
ters and their families. The sisters are Teri (Vanessa L. Williams), an
attorney, Maxine (Vivica A. Fox), a housewife, and Bird (N ia Long),
who runs her own beauty salon. The relationships and motivations
of the characters are convincingly written and portrayed. There is a
certain soap opera feeling to it in places, but not any more than
exists in real life, and that’s what the ﬁlm recreates for the most part.

The acting by Hammond, Hall, and Fox as three generations of
family members adds up to more than the sum of its parts. Fox’s face
echoes Hall’s in a particularly powerful scene.

Cinematographer Paul Elliott’s lighting and camera work bring
out the faces and the emotions of the black cast in a way I haven’t
seen done quite so successfully since “Do the Right Thing.” He’s ;
lighting their faces from a black perspective, just as white movie
star’s faces have been lit from white perspectives. The characters,
accordingly, feel bigger, more real. The phrase “people of color”

P/21' Movie Critic

 

last Word

 Where’s the Beef?

   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
     
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

§#"$$'

Ill
,,
5m§,/:-,5ss:
w,,§..... -
IV-I

» . - " 1 my
.- an: ».- - - ~ an .a.-.-2; II .a_
ﬁg; .-a , . .-.-.-.r ’J-12,}! 5

.2’;

Ir
 £235’-“"35
Ni ,

.-z
5’:

  
 

 

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

By Douglas Brown and Robin Seaton
Phi Food Critics

Welcome to ﬂavor country. Due
to popular demand, we are back
this week with a few more tips for
budget-conscious home cooking.
Beef, like chicken, can be a very
versatile meat. To many it seems
that there are two choices with
beef: hamburgers or steaks. But
on the contrary, there are many
more options with much less ex-
pensive cuts of meat. Both of our
parents have beef cattle, so we are
‘forced’ to eat our ‘friends’ on a
regular basis.

Safe cooking pre-

cautions: any
ground meat
needs to be

cooked completely
through, well done.
Steaks and other large
cuts only need to be
cooked to the point of
browning the outside, me-
dium rare. Doug usually finds
more flavor when his steaks are
prepared medium rare, but Robin,
having issues with pinkness and
blood in her meals, likes every-
thing browned thoroughly. Any
surface that comes in contact with
the raw meat, e.g. plates, counter-
tops, knifes, your hands, should
be washed well before coming into
contact with your vegetables, etc.
People really do get sick from this
stuff; play it safe.

Picking the meat: we have gen-
erally found that in Lexington, Har-
ris Teeter has the best beef. You’ll
want to grab some of those veg-
etable baggies to put your meat in,
lest it bleed all over your other gro-
ceries. Meat that is well marbled,
with streaks of fat running through-
out its pink or red surface, will al-
ways have more ﬂavor. The fat, al-
though _unhealthy, is where most of
the ﬂavor resides. Beware of meats
that have started to turn brown in
the store; old-fashioned people like
to consider these meats ‘aged,’ but
in reality they have just started to
go bad and will probably taste like
it. Here are some low-cost meals for
lovers of red meat:

Beef stew frequently serves sev-
eral people, or one person on mul-
tiple occasions. Choose approxi-
mately one pound of chuck, and cut
the meat into small pieces, approxi-
mately one-inch cubes. Fill a large

» Ziploc bag with ﬂour and add the

meat to it; shake the bag well to en-
sure that all surfaces are covered.
Remove the meat and place it into a
large non-stick pot. Saute the meat
in vegetable oil until it is well-
browned. Remove the meat from the
pot and spread it out to drain on
paper towels. Saute onions, if de-

   
    
  

sired, in the aforementioned pot
with vegetable oil, and then drain
off the fat and grease into a safe
container. Don’t pour it down the
drain! Return the cooked meat to
the pot, and add two cups of beef
broth and enough water to cover
the meat and onions. Allow the
contents to simmer for one to two
hours before adding slices or
small pieces of carrots, potatoes,
and any other desired vegetables.
Allow this to simmer for an addi-
tional ﬁfteen to thirty minutes, and
add seasonings such as onion
powder, garlic powder, salt
and pepper if you
wish. If you prefer a
thicker gravy-like
consistency, mix ‘a
. tablespoon of ﬂour or
cornstarch with a
tablespoon of water in
a separate container
until no lumps remain,
and then add this mix-
ture to the pot of stew.
If you add thickener, increase the

heat and continue cooking until
the stew sauce thickens as de-
sired. Your stew is ready to eat.

Chicken-fried steak is one of
Doug’s favorites, particularly
when he has gravy, potatoes, corn
and no green vegetables on his
plate. Preparation of chicken-fried
steak is very similar to that offried
chicken. Cube steak and round
steak are good cuts to use, but
any small ﬂat cut of meat will suf-
fice. Mix flour with salt, pepper
and any other desired seasonings
in a Ziploc bag. Add meat one
piece at a time and shake the bag
to coat thoroughly. Then fry the
steak in vegetable oil in a skillet,
and drain the cooked meat on pa-
per towels to reduce excess
grease. This recipe offers a quick,
inexpensive option for those who
enjoy fried foods.

Doug also has a special recipe
for very ﬂavorful hamburgers. We
often eat them sans bread, as ham-
burger steaks, in order to enjoy
the rich ﬂavor without ketchup,
mustard, or other toppings. Mix
ground beef with salt, pepper, on-
ion powder, garlic powder, and a

. steak sauce such as Dale’s or A-1

before making the individual pat-
ties. If you experience difficulty
in obtaining cohesive patties, you
may wish to add a raw eggpr piece
of white bread to the mixture so
the meat will hold together. Ham-
burger patties are excellent grilled,
fried orvbroiled; to ensure that the
meat is thoroughly cooked, press
on the patty with a spatula. If the
juices run clear, the meat is done,
but a pinkish color in the juices
indicates raw meat at the center of
the patty.

Wanted !!!!

Individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
Spring Break Travel Packages

Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
,T Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS

E

 

ﬁx.

THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT‘
: ENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE
HE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER THE PAST 30 YEAR
" I ROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
RS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT'S ALL-NEW...WITH V
ORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
LUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER
GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA IS SAFER AND
QUIETER. AND BEST OF ALL. IT STARTS
AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST

TOYOTA j

YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
’ MONEY. WHAT A I
REFRESHING
c H A N G E 1

   
  
 
  

  
     
   
 
      
   
   
     

iv

2.

 

_.....,._/e ..-cg:-P‘

 

 

. Nashington and Lee University

‘Students
‘attacked

  

     

« I2 

 

f v

‘i .1 ,4.
F5:
‘ft ""lP‘A

2"‘!
, I.
C-.

Lseytf 

PAGE 5

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 8

ange.”
SinceConnier
had seen the

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

that these men
NEWS EDITOR

were trouble.

“I told them
that I wasn’t (in
the mood for ul-
tra violence),” he

 

reshmen Tim Cormier has

seen the movie “A Clock-

work Orange,” which glori-
ﬁes violence and rape, several times.

TEE-enerals slam
§warthmpre; in

season finale.

violence,” one of the men said, quot-
ing a line from “A Clockwork Or-

movie, he knew ,

Does VMI
prepare
men for
“The. Real
World?"
Dave

find out.

 

‘(HE

R: L _
woRl—D

Burns, senior, may just

A

 

PAGE 3

 

ran away,” Cormier said.
Three juvenilles were arrested by
the Lexington Police later that night,

said W&L Security
Chief Michael
Young.

I’m in the mood for

_ They are also
some ultra-violence

suspected of as-

__ attacker saulting a law stu-
dent Saturday
7’ night.

Cormier suf-

When he was walking home from
Phi Gamma Delta Saturday, he didn’t
expect to have a run-in with an aﬁ-
zionado of the ﬁlm.

Cormier was walking up Washing-
:on Street around I I p.m., on his way
to check on a friend, when three men
accosted him near Lee House.

“I’m in the mood for some ultra-

Smoking

be banned in

said.

The three men knocked Cormier to
the ground. To protect himself, he
rolled over on his left side and as-
sumed the fetal position.

The men started kicking and
punching him all over his body.

“I think they saw a security guard
or something because they ﬁnally just

fered minor injuries: a cut and
bruised«hand, a swollen arm and
cuts and bruises on the right side of
his head.

He was treated at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. Cormier plans to
press charges against thejuvenilles.

— Hollister Hovey contributed to
this article.

may

They've got a ml

bucks, of W&L’s endowment
to invest. Do you know

W110 they are?

JA'\IlF=.Q r: LEYBURN LIBRARY
71%-I-2t?’slIi'J§i?|l-ON &  
LEXINGTONNA 

NOV 181$Z

PAGE 7

Uh iliing-tum Iﬂlti

Rats

llion

 

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Pennit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
NOVEMBER 17, 1997

riot

400 break into mess hall

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
~——--eNEws EDITOR

They wereithrowing dishes, tear-
ing stuff off the walls and smash-
ing up a Post Police car. An upper-
classman cadet said it was “just bed-
time.” Some might call it a riot.

Virginia Military Institute Post
Police Ofﬁcer Matt Bennett called
the Lexington Police Department
for backup around 11:15 p.m. Sun-
day after a late-night rat activity got
out of control. Lexington Police
Ofﬁcer Michael Hess was on the
scene.

“There was a riot going on and
they needed more officers,” Hess
said. “The rats were tearing stuff
offthe walls ofthe cafeteria, break-
ing dishes and throwing chairs.”

Hess arrested 21-year-old cadet
Samora Leacock for smashing the
windshield ofa Post Police vehicle.

“When I got there, he was the
only one left messing with the car,”
Hess said. “But people said that
there were 20 or 30 guys trying to
overturn the car.”

“He (Leacock) said that he was
told by his superiors to do it, and that
he was following orders,” Hess said.
“All of the upperclassmen were just
standing around and watching.”

The riot was a “show of rat mass

unity,” and was the ﬁrst one this year,
a reliable source at VMI said. The rats
attempted to burn down the barracks
last year, he said. “But you can’t light
cement on ﬁre.”

The rats’ original intention Sunday
night was to take the chairs from the
mess hall and spell out “98” in the
middle of the football ﬁeld. _

“98” signiﬁes this year’s graduat-
ing class. Each rat has a special rela-
tionship to one senior, a mentor that
they call a “dyke.”

However, the rats got overzealous.
They broke into the mess hall to get
the chairs and began tipping over the
tables, which were already set for
Monday’s breakfast, and broke doz-
ens of plates and glasses.

“When you get a bunch of young
kids together this kind of thing is go-
ing to happen,” junior Ben Murray
said.

A frenzy like this breaks out ev-
ery year, and this year was no worse
than last year, with the exception of
the demolished car, Hess said.

“The class starts out as 425 indi-
viduals,” Hess said. “And at the end
of the year, they are supposed to be a
one-minded group. And that group
gets together and destroys stuf 

 SEE RIOT PAGE 2

seeping  om eyes

Gaines residents

BY WILL HARDIE
-—e—————: COPY EDITOR

A local man was caught peering at
female students through a Gaines Dor-
mitory window Friday night. Brian S.
Armentrout, 21, was served a tresspass
notice, meaning he will be arrested if
caught on campus again.

A 9mm automatic pistol was later
found in his posession. Since the gun
was unloaded, Lexington police could
not charge him with a weapons viola-
tion.

At 8:20 p.m. Friday, sophomore
Lauren Walter noticed a strange man
looking at her through the window of
her ﬁrst ﬂoor Gaines suite. “He looked
ﬁshy, so we drove to security to re-
port it,” she said. The man had long
blond hair and a small beard, and was
wearing a gray ﬂeece and blue jeans.

The man’s description was immedi-
ately broadcast on security radio, which
is also monitored by Lexington police.
By the time Walter returned to Gaines,
a Washington and Lee security car and

a police squad car were on the scene. _

Walter told the officers that the
stranger had driven off along Wash-
ington Street in a blue Chevrolet
Cavalier, and gave them the licence
number.

Lexington police and W&L secu-
rity ofﬁcers spread out to search for
the stalker. Driving out of town on
Route 60, police spotted his Cavalier
heading back into town.

They spun round at the junction of
Liberty Hall Road and turned on their
sirens. The police car and a W&L se-
curity car pursued Armentrout back
into Lexington and up Washington

Street. Joined by a second police car
they pulled him over opposite Lee
House. A third police car screeched
up soon afterwards, and a small crowd
of students gathered round.

Security Ofﬁcer Rodney Early said
Armentrout was shocked by the rapid
response. “He was freaked, like, where
did all these people come from so
fast?” he said. “This was the bust of
the year,” said Security Ofﬁcer Scott
“wild Irishman” Rowe. “We were in
front of Chi Psi when the call went
out and were there in less than ten sec-
onds.”

Lexington Police Officer Fred
Smith noticed a pistol lying on the
Cavalier’s passenger seat, so drew his
own gun and cuffed Armentrout
against the car. Armentrout’s 9mm

(L3) SEE PEEPER mg 2

public rooms

BY WILL HARDIE

COPY EDITOR

moking could be banned from all public build-
ings on campus as soon as next term, if current
draft proposals are implemented. Faculty would no
longer be allowed to smoke in their offices, and the li-
brary smoking lounges may be closed.

While some welcome the proposals as overdue, many
faculty who smoke in their ofﬁces are up in arms.

Current university policy, dating from September 1994,
bans smoking in all university public areas. Smoking is
only allowed in designated places such as some residence
hall rooms, faculty and staffofﬁces and smoking lounges.
Faculty members who smoke in their ofﬁces are asked to
keep their doors closed and are given the option of using
air ﬁlters. I

Worries about the health implications of second-hand
smoke and complaints from students, faculty and staff,
prompted the administration, the deans and Director of
Personnel Bob Fox to initiate a policy review. An addi-
tional ﬂurry of complaints resulted from the shufﬂe of
ofﬁces associated with the opening of the new Science
building. _ «

Last week Dean of the College Laurent Boetsch sent
department heads a draft policy revision, extending the
smoking ban to faculty ofﬁces. He asked for comment
and response, and received plenty.

Professor Lad Sessions, head of the philosophy depart-
ment, is in favor of the plan.

“Faculty have an obligation to their students not to scare
them away or damage their health with their smoking, and
to think more kindly of their colleagues who are bothered

 

PUFF DADDY A smoking student studies in one of
the library's smoking lounges, which may soon be
closed by the school. LORA ELLlSON/ RING-TUM PHI

by second-hand smoke,” he said.

“Smoking should be not permitted in public spaces,
and that includes faculty ofﬁces. They are not private
spaces; they are not owned by the faculty.”

Knight Professor of Journalism Louis Hodges, who
smokes in his ofﬁce, welcomed the review but criticized
the current proposals.

“There has to be a way that the university can accom-
modate the needs of non-smokers and group dedicated to
promoting free expression on campus smokers,” he said.

Boetsch said the university had expected adamant op-
position to the proposals, but that there are no real alter-
natives. The university has abandoned compromise mea-
sures such as keeping doors closed and the use of air ﬁl-
ters. Fox said these have failed to protect non-smokers
from second-hand smoke. “Any additional physical reha-
bilitation  really won’t work,” he said. I '

Sessions agreed. “It’s hard for many faculty to keep
their doors shut because they want to be open to students,”
he said, and added that smokers have not always kept to
the rules. He cited cases of smokers refusing to close doors,
refusing to turn on air ﬁlters on the grounds that they are
too noisy, and in one case refusing to get an air ﬁlter.

“Moving them all into the same building  would be
an interesting compromise,” said Sessions, “But I think it
would be undesirable for the smokers. That would mean
that they could share their smoking with one another but

fl) Isa PUFF ma 2

Protest planned against
Pat Buchanan’s speech

BY JASON ZACHER

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The Young America’s Foundation contacted Washing-
ton and Lee’s Contact committee in an attempt to ﬁnd a
“friendly engagement for Patrick Buchanan.” But when
Buchanan speaks in Lee Chapel Tuesday evening, he will
be greeted with something he might not expect from a
small, conservative, southern school — a demonstration
against a Republican.

Seniors Victoria Kumpuris and Kate Giese sent an e-
mail last week to more than 45 students about the demon-
stration

Organizers of the demonstration stress that they are
demonstrating against Buchanan — not Contact’s deci-
sion to bring him to campus.

In the e—mail, Kumpuris said, “Apathy is the worst
reaction to these inflammatory statements. Be glad he is
coming.” *

A Kumuris is actually looking forward to attending the
speech.

“It is a great opportunity to see someone of his stature
speak,” she said.

“I think a lot ofpeople disagree with some ofthe things
in Buchanan’s platform,” added Giese.

Contact Chairman Josh Heslinga is not worried about
the protest. ’

“The only .,
concern I have is X
if the demonstra-
tion interfered
with the speech,”
Heslinga said.
“It if did, it
would reflect
poorly on the
school.”

The Young
America’s Foun-
dation, a conser-
vative group «
dedicated to pro- Patrick Buchanan
moting free expression on campuses, suggested Buchanan
to Contact. Its lecture program brings conservative speak-
ers to college campuses throughout the country.

Buchanan’s honorarium is set at $15,000. The Young
America’s Foundation is paying $5,000 of that total, Mock
Convention is paying $2,000 and Contact is picking up
the other $8,000.

“It was a real good deal to get someone with this much
name recognition,” said Heslinga. “Young America’s felt

 

 SEE PROTIST PAGE 2

 

  

PAGE 2

IICWS

NOVEMBER 17, 1997 ‘

Light shed on dismal topic  PUFF

BY MELODY ANDREOLA

SPECIAL TO THE RlNG—TUM PHI

Professor Art Goldsmith packed the house Thurs-
day evening.

His lecture, “Economics: Dismal Science or Dis-
mal Scientists,” covered the evolution of economic
thought over the last several centuries and concluded
with an optimistic vision of its future as a hopeful sci-
ence.

“My goal was to encourage people to think more
broadly about the questions that are asked in each dis-
cipline and that sometimes a conventional point of view
should be questioned.”

Goldsmith boldly denounced the assumptions ofthe
prevailing economic models using the empirical evi-
dence he has collected since the ’70s about the psy-
chology of labor.

Goldsmith’s insightful and well-supported com-
ments rang true to Professor of Economics Charles
Phillips.

“My general concern is that we’ve been more inter-

ICED RIOT

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
“We just stand by and make sure no one gets hurt,”

Hess said. Luckily, no one was iniured during the inci-
dent.

“We were all just mezrnorized at what was going on,”
the source said.

“After we made the arrest, they all started to calm
down,” Hess said. Superintendent Josiah Bunting was
called out of bed during the incident. “Alter Bunting
got there, they all just lined up and went back to bed.”

As punishment, the rats were up at 6 a.m. Monday
morning participating in a “sweat party.” The “party”
entails an extensive work-out and push-ups.

The class will probably have to raise the money to
pay for the damages, the source said.

ﬂ Will Hardie and Courtney Miller contributed to
this article.

CGTDPEEPER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

.380 caliber gun appeared to have been recently
unloaded. The loaded clip was found under the
seat, but one shell was lying beside the gun on
top of the seat.

Armentrout was charged with driving with-
out a licence and was released. His licence had
been revoked for traffic offenses.

Walter said she saw Armentrout in Wendy’s
the following day, and that he had walked up to
her and stared at her.

“It was scary,” she said.

ested in building models than with the underlying
assumptions,” he said. “Have economists become
model builders at the expense of reality?”

“It was refreshing to see a professor who for
once let his true beliefs be known,” senior Jeremy
Adams said. “Oftentimes, especially in the C-
school, professors hide their true convictions in the
almighty name of objectivity. I had a pretty good
idea about what Professor Goldsmith believed and
his talk simply confirmed it.” '

Goldsmith tempered his economic discourse by
including his two children in the presentation, elic-
iting many smiles from the audience.

This was Goldsmith’s inaugural address for re-
ceiving the Jackson T. Stephens endowed profes-
sorship. For an endowed or chaired professorship,
a donor gives a large, lump sum to the university.
The university then invests the sum and pays the
professor from the interest earned on the invest-
ment. ~

“The endowed professorship is a way to honor
professors,” said Professor of Economics Bruce
Herrick.

‘ETD PROTEST

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

this would be a good place for a friendly engage-

ment. It will still he a friendlier engagement than
what he would receive at other campuses.”

The last political protest at W&L was 25 years
ago, when students organized protests throughout
Lexington against President Richard Nixon’s deci-
sion to mine Haiphong harbor in Vietnam.

“One should not undersell the significance of a
small southern school protesting theNixon policy,”
said Pete Swart during preparations for the 1972
protest.

Organizers at the time set up “telegram booths”
so students could send telegrams to their congress-
men about their protest.” Twenty-five years later,
Heslinga said, “They have every right to protest. I
wish them luck.”

Buchanan will speak in Lee Chapel Tuesday night
at 7:30 p.m.

Anyone who would like to join the demonstra-
tion against Buchanan is encouraged t0_contact
Victoria Kumpuris.

 CAS H
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 7

long-terrn and will not be dealing with daily fluctuations
and short-temi volatility. The Oct. 28 prices would have
been good buying prices, but WIS will invest for long-
term growth and capital appreciation.

Barret and Deupree developed the idea for WIS last
year. While studying at the London School of Econom-
ics, Barret met other American students who had ben-
eﬁted from investment organizations on their campuses.
He and Deupree agreed that an investment group would
be natural at Washington and Lee.

“lt’s a common-sense extension of student interests
and has a strong precedent,” Barret said.

Deupree and Barret worked with Professors Joseph
Goldsten, Michael Anderson and Andrew Holliday and
members of the administration to establish the organiza-
tion. “We took the idea to reality at the beginning of this
year,” Deupree said. They held an application process
and brought in 21 students to the group. Other students
serve as informal associate members.

The students are business administration, accounting,
philosophy, economics, politics, and European history
majors, and are divided into seven teams of three. “Each
team does research on a speciﬁc industry,” Deupree said.

Before WIS invests any money, the teams will present
and defend their research.

Deupree anticipates taking 12 to 18 months to build a
complete portfolio of 25 to 40 securities. “Most of our

research has been preliminary. Our main goal is to find -

fundamentally sound companies that are fairly valued in
the market,” he said. WIS is still in the preliminary re-
search stage, and needs to do a thorough evaluation be-
fore deciding in which companies to invest.

“I don’t think that we were the first at W&L to have
the idea for such an organization,” Barret said. “I’m just
glad that we had the opportunity to set it up.”

37 DAYS ’TIL CHRISTMAS

COME SEE OUR SELECTION OF on-‘r BOXES AND BASKETS
WEEKDAYS 7:30 — 5:30 - SATURDAY 8:00-5:00 - SUNDAY 9:00 - 400

WWW

(l;(’ .(”r)0.s'///39' (rill

9 W. WASHINGTON ST. - 464-6586

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

would be a fearsome place for everyone else.”

“Folks opposed to the change in policy argue that they
are not hurting anybody and that the character of the uni-
versity is such that individual freedom is desirable,” said
Hampden Smith, journalism department head.

But Sessions denounced the idea that smokers’ indi-
vidual liberties are at stake.

“If you’ll pardon the expression, I think that’s a
smokescreen,” he said.

Although not required in the draft proposals, it seems
likely that the two smoking lounges and the smoking study
in the Leybum Library will also be declared no-smoking
areas. Although these rooms are enclosed, staff and stu-
dents have complained that smoke drifts out. “It’s not
clear yet what will happen, but it is the staffs view that
maybe the time has come to declare this a no-smoking
building, Barbara Brown, head librarian, said.

An anonymous senior, who spends an average of 6
hours a day in the fourth ﬂoor smoking lounge, is op-
posed to the change.

“It’s not like the smoke spreads into the library,” she
said. “If you don’t have a place to smoke, you will be
forced to go outside and smoke in the freezing cold.”

Senior Steve Komonytsky, a non-smoker who works
in the library, has no problem with the smoking lounges.
“If smokers didn’t have a place to smoke, there would be
more people hanging around and smoking outside,” he
said. “Even though the lounges smell, there are plenty of

other places to go and study. I see no reason to get rid of
them.” - ‘

The senior believes that the absence of smoking
longues will be detrimental to students who need to smoke
while they study.

“It will not be conducive to smokers’ study habits,”
she said.

F ear of litigation by victims of diseases caused by sec-
ond hand smoke has contributed to the decisions of many
institutions to impose no-smoking policies. But Boetsch
denied that this is an issue‘ here. “We’re not looking at
this in legal terms,” he said. “It’s a question of the overall
welfare of the community.” _

“Imagine the disruption that would occur for those who
smoke if they are forced to go outdoors every time they
want to have a smoke,” said Hodges.

With winter approaching and no plans to create new
indoor smoking areas, smokers are likely to face consid-
erable inconvenience. And the prospect of faculty and stu-
dents huddling in doorways to smoke raises more poten-
tial problems, such as litter and security. Boetsch acknowl-
edged that these were issues that will have to be addressed.

“lt’s not uncommon that in trying to deal with one prob-
lem you cause another set of problems,” he said.

The deans and Fox hope to make recommendations to
President John Elrod by the end of temi. Elrod must en-
dorse any change in smoking policy. If he decides to imple-
ment the plan, campus smoking could be outlawed as soon
as the start of next term.

 

Date

Location

 

PICK UP APPLICATIONS FOR
FOR DORM COUNSELORS,
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS ‘

Applications are due Monday, Dec. 1 for
dorm counselor and resident assistant

posistions. They are available in Payne Hall I

4. If you have any questions about the appli-
cation/selection process, contact Dennis G.
Manning, Dean of the Freshman Program.

ATTEND MOCK CONVENTION
MEETING WED. NOV 19

A Mock Convention 2000 Information Ses- 3

sion will be held Wed. Nov. 19 at 6:30 p.m. in
the Commerce School, Room 221. For all
freshmen, sophomores and first year law stu-
dents, this is a unique opportunity to partici-
pate in one of W&L’s best events!

CHECK OUT IMPROVED,
NEW ONLINE CALENDAR

The W&L calendar is now on-line and can
be accessed on the W&L Homepage by click-
ing on the box, Jan.l, under the Calendar list-

ing. All events which have been placed on the 1»

calendar for this academic year should be vis-
ible on the Master Calendar as well as on the
School Events‘Calendar.

If you put something on the calendar, check

to make sure all information is correct. Also, ‘

ifa scheduled event is canceled, or if the date
is changed, contact Evan Atkins at X8955 or
by e-mail, eatkins@wlu.edu.

UVA PROFESSOR SPEAKS
ABOUT CHINESE CULTURE

“Privledged and Imperiled: Children of the
Han Court” is the title of the lecture that will
be given by Anne Behnke Kinney, associate
professor of Chinese at the University of Vir-
ginia, on Tues., Nov. 18, at 4:30 p.m. The lec-
ture, which is sponsored by the East Asian
Studies Program at W&L, is open to the public
and will take place in the duPont Auditorium

—Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik 1*

0%

GR EAT ‘BR I'I'AI\I
AUSTRALIA
I B E I.AI\I D

N EIl|l ZEAI.AI\I D

o:-

ARGENTINA
CI-III.E
COSTA RICA

Fa/of «gar/ﬁg an /fa//%a/6, cﬁéa/a/océfar riled/dz!/e.

Study Abroad Information Sessions:
Representative: Steve Seaworth

Tuesday, November 18
5:00 PM

Tucker Hall 5 18

For further information contact the Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University.
4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208, Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax 317/940-9704

INKHTUTEFORSTUDYABROAD
BUTLERIUNIVERSITY

l

 

 

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

  
   

BY ERICA PRossER

STAFF WRIIER

t’s the true story of seven strangers chosen to live together in a great

house in a hip city —— their every moment captured on video. It’s

MTV’s Real World, a chronicle of twentysomethings as they struggle to
get along, and next year a VMI cadet just may be in the mix.

Dave Burns and Nate Blackburn, VMI seniors, are in the ﬁnal stages of
interviews and considerations necessary to become members of either “The
Real World” or “Road Rules.” “The Real World” traces the interactions of the
participants and airs them on TV “Road Rules,” on the other hand, involves
adventurous people travelling around the world, following clues left for them.
Both shows have already run several seasons on MTV.

Burns described his initial casting call as “just kidding around.” He hap-
pened to be in Richmond while MTV was holding an open casting call in six
cities. Richmond was one of the cities, and Burns wandered into the Cobble-
stone Pub, the casting call location, for fun.

“Nate was more premeditated than I was,” Burns said “He wants to be anactor.”

The long interview process snagged both the cadets. The second round
was held at the Berkeley Hotel in Richmond. This interview was a ﬁlm shoot;
interviewees and interviewers relaxed and talked in front of the camera. Burns
said that the questions he was asked sought information about his past, his
personality, and his best and worst points.

5

Two senior cadets may ,0
star in the next season
of MTV’s hottest shows

 

PAGE 5

W&life

MTV held the next interview at VMI. Burns sat in front of a camera while
speaking to the interviewers on a speakerphone. He then had to send the
tape in to the studio. Burns said that this step in the process was elimination
before the semiﬁnals.

As you might have guessed, Burns and Blackburn were notiﬁed of semiﬁ-
nal status four days later. MTV ﬂew producers and a director to VMI to follow
the candidates around with a camera. The MTV people watched Burns and
Blackbum through parade, fomiations, dinner, and nearly everything in between for
a whole day. Then another interview ended the day.

Two days later, Burns received a call telling him to go to Washington,
D.C. for another round in the selection process. He drove his ’69 convertible
up and met the MTV crew at a coffee shop. They wanted to ﬁlm him driving
the car with the top down.

“It was like 55 degrees outside,” Burns laughed.

They all piled into the convertible, and with cameramen and a direc-
tor riding along and ﬁlming Burns drove around D.C. The group en-
countered a slight problem when Burns got lost.

He went to a gas station for directions, and the gas station worker
gave him the wrong directions. Burns ended up asking for directions in
residential Alexandria. The group ﬁnally made it back to the hotel,

though, and the crew had ﬁlmed Burns’s entire experience with getting
lost in D. C.

The ﬁlming at VlVl1 and in D.C. willbe used for the premiere of the show,
Burns said. He’s not deﬁnitely a member of the cast yet, but he says it “looks
good.” Some have told him that he is deﬁnitely “in” at this stage, but he’s
going to stay skeptical until he’s sure. The MTV staff will visit his home in
Boston over Thanksgiving to speak with his family.

IfMTV picks Burns, he will go to Seattle for ﬁve months, begin-
ning in January. The show would air next July.

Burns said that the producers look for a mixture of passive and
nfrontational people for the cast. 1 He plans to be more confronta-
tional than passive, addressing the issues that come up as he usu-

allywould.

Burns was very positive about the interviews and the MTV
people he has worked with. “I’ve bonded with these people amaz-
ingly,” he said. “Even if it doesn’t work out, I had a great time.”

ThisisBurns’slastsemesteratVMI. Hehasajob1inedup,andheadmit1edthat
the show would “shake that up.” But, he said, this is an experience.

“With an experience like this, you have to take it,” he said.

Burns has seen a few episodes of “The Real World,” but he has never
seen “Road Rules.” He thinks that Blackburn will probably be on “Road
Rules” if he is chosen. He and Blackburn are close friends, he said, almost
like brothers. Blackburn could not be reached for comment.

Burns looks forward to the rest of the process.

“It’s ano-lose situation,” he said “I amwhatl arri, and ifthey likethat, ﬁne.”
SEATTLE
will be
Burns is
new home
starting in
January if
MTV
chooses
him

for “The
Real
World. ”

 

A EULOGY FOR JACKOPIERCE

THE END IS NEAR for Jackopierce. HTTP.‘//WWW.JACKOP1ERCE.COM

Fin Itour

- -‘r. "‘6., - : "Q, N‘ -. -  ar 5‘ *
    as
I S ‘ ,   

no iwake

lBYKELI.EYTO'ITEN

    

STAFF WRIIER

saw Jackopeirce for the ﬁrst time as a freshman and now, unfortu-
nately, as a senior, I’ll see the band for the last time.

Jackopierce is breaking up, but for its ﬁnal hurrah it has booked an
extensive farewell tour, playing across the country almost every night.
Tomorrow, the tour hits Trax in Charlottesville a regular venue for the
band whenever it is in Virginia.

The band started with two friends — freshmen theater majors at
Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. Jack O’Neill and Cary
Pierce combined their guitar and vocal skills, their love for music, and
their names to form Jackopierce. They started by playing in a local club
and soon had an avid college following.

In 1994, my brother Brent tried to introduce me to Jackopierce. Prac-
tically every time I spoke with him, he mentioned the band, urging me to
listen. I didn’t though, not yet anyway. I mean, this is the guy who tried
to convince me that Dave Matthews was going to be ultra-popular.
What did my brother know about music?

Then I started hearing little murmurs about the band. Friends at
home in Atlanta were starting to talk. I started to receive e-mails from

friends at other schools who had seen Jackopierce. My dorm counselor
(an all-knowing upperclassman) was playing their CDs.

Then in Spring 1995, W&L’s Mock Convention Kick-off brought
Jackopierce to Zollman’s. I called Brent; a visit was in order. And so
began the ﬁrst of many brother/sister memories with J ackopierce.

Over the next few years, I saw the band as often as possible — in
Roanoke, Charlotte and Atlanta. Their ﬁfth CD Finest Hour received
extended air play on the local alternative radio station. The popularity of
“Trials” and “Vineyard” sparked numerous promotional events around
Atlanta during the summer of 1996.

After that summer, I missed J ackopierce for awhile. I didn’t see them
the next fall, and I was studying in Europe winter and spring (unfortu-
nately, the band just doesn’t get any attention in the shadows of the
Spice Girls over there). I spent this summer in a twilight-zoned town in
Montana ——— I’m not even sure if they have ever heard of Elvis, let alone
this small college band from Texas. So, needless to say, I was way behind
in my Jackopierce stalking. .

One day this term, I returned from classes to ﬁnd a message from in
brother. He was quite polite and restrained, yetl could .hear his snickering
undertone: “Just calling to say hi. I’m going out tonight ...[and then the
stab to my heart]  to see J ackopierce.” I could feel the jealousy burning
inside, but then Brent worsened the blow, turning the dagger  oh yeah,
and this is their Farewell Tour.”

The next day, Brent called again. I suppose he felt guilty for his cruel
message, so the ﬁrst thing he I

 

said was, “Jackopierce 15 play- . M§§§§:‘=§§§:55¢:'
ing at Trax on Nov. 18, don’t
worry.” As Ibreathed a sigh of
relief, my brother told me about
the concert he had just seen.

The show, entitled “An
Evening with Jackopierce,”
begins with just Cary Pierce '
and Jack O’Neill playing an
acoustic set of old favorites.
It is rumored, if we’re a good
audience, that they’ll even
play “Please Come to Boston,”
a favorite of the fans, but a
song that Jackopierce vowed _ . . .., _
never to play again. After a I '0 .
short break, Jackopierce will
return (now with bassist Clay
and drummer Earl) for another complete set, plugged in and energized.

Brent raved about the show. He saw it in Athens, Ga. and immediately
bought tickets for the show in Atlanta. He couldn’t believe the stamina of
Jack and Cary, playing two complete sets. As the show progressed, Cary,
known for jumping about the stage, became more and more enthusiastic
and animated. The next day, my brother was still hyper talking about it.

Now, I can hardly wait for tomorrow night. In anticipation, I worked
throughout the weekend so I could attend the concert guilt-free without
worrying about the tests and papers the ﬁnal week before Thanksgiving ensues.

So maybe I love Jackopierce because, in a way, it has tracked my
college years. Or maybe I love the band because its one of the few things
my very different brother (he’s the middle child) and I have in common.
But, honestly, the band just plays good, fun music and you leave their
concerts bubbling over with energy and excitement.

If you want to catch Jackopierce for the last time, or even the ﬁrst,
tickets are available at Night Owl or at the door (if they are not sold out).
Doors open at 8 p.m. Call 804-295-8729 for more information.

4-
5

/ '/

JACKOPIERCE.

  

Blues band to play
Christmas Weekend

BY GINGER PHILLIPS

STAFF WRHER

It’s coming. In less than three weeks it will be “Christmas Weekend” —
notorious for being two of the most ﬁin-ﬁlled days each year at W&L. A huge part
of all that fun is always the great bands sponsored by the Student Activities
Board. This year the SAB is bringing the Gibb Droll Band to campus.

The Gibb Droll Band has earned a reputation as one of the best bands in the
Southeast. They have toured with such bands as Widespread Panic, B.B. King,
and W&L favorites the Dave Matthews Band and Agents of Good Roots.

The band’s overwhelming succg/s,s,.ar;j1 opularity keep them on the road in
' s for over 200 shows each year.
(1 delivers an eifective mixture
iige center of the maelstrom. In
' tches from Virginia to the

   
  
   
     
   
  
  
    
    

Rocky Mountains.”

Josh Harvey, sophorrigf j_oll Band. “I think with the

recent Blues explosion,  he said.
Harvey, an aspiring  River at a Charlottesville
concert at Trax this Gibb Droll,” said Harvey.
“They’re pretty renowned? 
The band was form ', /A , roll. Droll began playing
the guitar at age ten whenfa; ﬁrst guitar. His respect for
the great blues guitarists  his own unique style and
the passion for music whiclfé e. Droll says, “What we are
trying to do is put somethingégéi 'n’t normally hear, something

that will get the audience involv
you can dance to.” ///,/
The other members of the band are drummer Mike Williams, keyboardist Pete
Mathis, and bass player Bob Bowen. The four members together create an explo-
sive chemistry on stage that maintains the high energy of both the band and the
audience. The band ’s ﬁrst release, Dhaiina, sold over 10,000 copies in less than a
year, by word of mouth alone. Narrow Mouth Jar, the band’s second CD, was
released in October 1995 and has achieved a high level of praise for its originality
and diverse content. ~
The band will play at the W&L Pavilion on Friday, December 5.

ut with a furikier ‘90’s style that

         
      

-. ".-r 77,” -

BY L1H5'rYiE INIORMATION FOR EVERYONE

PUBLIC SERvi<E ANNOUNCEMENT

We all know about AIDS. We’ve heard
the lectures, seen the documentaries and
some of us even know people with AIDS or
HIV AIDS seems to have been around for
our entire lives. That’s closer to the truth
than many of us might have imagined. For
17 years, the world has recognized AIDS as
a serious epidemic and has attempted to ﬁnd
ways to combat it.

Although education about the virus has
increased, many things people still may not
know all the facts. The percentage of AID S-
related deaths in the United States dropped
by 19 percent in 1996; the number of people
living with fully developed cases of the disease increased to almost 215,000.

This number is up 10 percent from 1995 and does not include an estimate of
how many undiagnosed cases there are in the United States. Women are still 33
percent more likely to die than men from AIDS. By the year 2000, an estimated
80,000 children in the United States will lose their mothers to AIDS. This has
already happened to nine million children world-wide.

The majority of new AIDS cases are found amoung people aged 15-24.
In addition, African-Americans and Latinos are considered to be “high
risk” groups. AIDS is the leading killer of Americans aged 25-44. Roughly
20 percent of the reported AIDS cases among women (through mid-1996)
are Hispanic. In the same year, 23 percent of children’s AIDS cases occured
among Hispanic children.

December 1 is World AIDS Day. Celebrated since 1988, the purpose of
this day, according to the American Association for World Health, is to
create an “increased understanding of the magnitude of the HIV/AIDS epi-
demic and its global dimensions, with an emphasis on promoting action
and sound policies to prevent HIV transmission and to minimize the
epidemic’s impact on children, their families and their communities.”

LIFE is sponsoring activities throughout the day all over campus. Between
noon and 3 p.m., there will be free and conﬁdential HIV testing at the Student
Health Center. This has no affiliation with
the University, and there will be no record
made in your health ﬁle.

LIFE will sponsor other activites on
campus to raise awareness. At 2 p.m., the
bell at Lee Chapel will chime 17 times in
observance of the 17 years that AIDS has
been considred an epidemic. “And the
Band Played On,” a movie about the be-
ginning of the AIDS epidemic starring Lily
Tomlin, Alan Alda, Richard Gere and
Anjelica Huston, will be shown in Northen Auditorium at 1 p.m. and again
at 9 p.m. LIFE will provide refreshments for the 9 p.m. showing, and every-
one is invited to bring pillows and get comfortable.

For more ‘infomiation, look for the table in the library with associated infor-
mation, or check out http2//www.aawhworldhealth.org.

 

  

PAGE 4

Hoofbeats gives
children a leg-up

BY HILLARY OooMBs

MANAGING FDIIOR
Sometimes Mike Gorman looks out of his liv-
ing room window and catches a glimpse of his
daughter riding her bike through the neighborhood.
Many parents would take the sight for granted.
But Gorman never will.

His daughter had to overcome difficulties with
delayed ﬁne and gross motor skills in order to ride.
He credits Hoofbeats, a therapeutic riding center in
Natural Bridge, with making the 11-year-old’s trav-
els through the community possible.

“I attribute her success on horseback to being
able to teach her to ride abike,” said Gorman, direc-
tor of Washington and Lee’s Lenfest Center. “She
learned balance and not to fear.”

Hoofbeats is the creation of Carol Branscome,
a riding instructor from Blacksburg, and Trish
Rogers, once a Vir-

“People see the pictures of the very physi-
cally disabled taking part in their riding, but a lot
of people look at that and think it’s just a pony
ride,” Rogers said. “They don’t realize that tlrere’s
a true physical beneﬁt to posture and balance
and range of motion.”

For some Hoofbeats clients, riding provides
even more than exercise.

“It’s so good for self-conﬁdence and plan-
ning and task orientation — even spacial ori-
entation,” Rogers said. “A lot of handicapped
people don’t have any sense of personal orien-
tation. With most of our kids, the main goal is
to build their conﬁdence.” .

Branscome researches the disability of each
new client who comes to the center and constructs
a riding program to ﬁt his needs. I

“It’s safety ﬁrst, and she’s very responsible about

the whole thing,”

ginia Tech molecular Rogers said “She really

biologist. does her homework on
“It was one of a new client with new

those kind of kismet disability.”

things you hear of The riders have a

now and then,”
Rogers said. “Carol
was managing a
huge barn, and not
happy with where
she was. Iwas a mo-
lecular biologist at
Virginia Tech. I just
decided that I wanted
to have more direct
contact with people.”

The two were

 

A

HOOFBEATS is located in Natural Bridge. HTTP.’//
NS.ROCKBRIDGE.NET/OR G/I-IOOFBEA TS

lesson once every two
weeks, on average,
from March through
November. Lessons
last an hour, are usu-
ally private and cost
$10. Rogers says that
Hoofbeats is a bar-
gain, because the go-
ing rate in the county
for an hour-long
riding lesson is $20-

  

-/z

 

considering opening a therapeutic riding center when $30. She estimates that Hooﬂ)eats’s actual cost per
Rogers’ husband, Gary, a geotechnical engineer, was hour lesson is between $3 5 and $3 8.

oﬁered a professorship at Virginia Military Institute.
After studying the area, Rogers ,
and Branscome decided ‘ C “"""“
Rockbridge County would be the
perfect place to open their center.
Hoofbeats was incorpo-
rated as an nonproﬁt organiza-
tion in 1993. By the spring of

 

With most of our
kids, the main goal
is to build their

“Those who can’t afford to pay sign a fee
waiver,” Rogers said. “To date
we’ve been able to supply all fee
waivers people have requested.
No one has been denied access
on basis of paying.”

Because Hootbeats’s ‘costs are
so much higher than its revenues,

19 94, the two were training six C Onﬁden Ce- the center relies heavily on the more
donated or borrowed horses for than 40 volunteers on its rolls.
use in therapy. The center « Trish Rogers “We haven’t found a way in

opened its barn doors June 1,
1994, to 12 disabled and six able-
bodied riders.

In the past three years, the center’s client
list has grown to approximately 40 physically and
mentally disabled riders who range in age from
four to 60.

“At our center, we’ve attracted this huge
range of riders,” Rogers said. “We do have chil-
dren and adults with
physical disabilities, but
we also have children with
emotional disabilities,
speech disabilities and
learning disabilities.

Dr. Richard Bidlack’s
son, David, is another
Hoofbeats rider. The
seven-year-old has low
muscle tone.

“[David] has developed
a certain psychological bond
with the horses,” said Bidlack,
a W&L history professor.
“Riding develops his muscle
tone and his conﬁdence, and
he really enjoys it.”

Rogers explained the
beneﬁts of therapeutic riding
for the physically disabled.

A 1.

 

 

A VOLUNTEER iritroduc

of the Hoofbeats is ponies, to a new friend.
HTTP.‘//NS.ROCIQ3R1DGE.NET/ORG/HOOFBEA TS

our area to raise enough money to
7 9 pay salaries to everybody,” Rogers

said. “Carol, we pay kind of a mini-
mal salary, and she does do a few lessons to non-
disabled people on the side.”

Hoofbeats is also trying to branch out into
working with local schools. The center has estab-
lished Project ASTRIDE (A Study of Therapeutic
Riding’s Impact on Developmental Education), a
two-year study of the ben-
eﬁts of therapeutic riding,
with Natural Bridge Elemen-
tary School. The school
buses 10 first and second
grade learning and emotion-
ally disabled students to
Hoofbeats once a week,
where they do an academic
riding lesson. Branscome
and the students’ teacher

son on math, spelling and
grammar that the children
can do while on horseback.

Gorman explained the
impact of Hoofbeats and its
founders have had on his
and other families.

“It’s like angels ﬂew into
town,” he said.

  

 

kg. .

es Granny, one

 

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

W&life .

work together to plan a les- .

 

       
 

 
 
 
 
   
 

-W
I
a '
NATE
TAYLOR sings
Hopper Genie s .1.
original lyrics.
’C4<»4o4¢o4.o€«’,n~1K4~14;o4~ZMc/~€1;1KoA4«4«wow '
But I (,A»rv4¢61ZA147o4~'/1b4¢/no4s$/
/3yM£¢o4/41/40  — So 
‘l/6eKé/1/«XI/,k€t{~4«§o,14~5«o4v
R:»w1«£MZo4;ow»e(ne«n~4ZM~eo1« '-
/c4444&4/o4~4é4v7/L'4/l/1ZﬁT«4t/ﬂy
So 4me4/o4~/wloilowo/»U.
Wdtzalzozgloolowwmwi R
'CM-4&a;o4~’4x&go214o wwcﬁlcﬁ‘/Io [Mam
Tlow’/mm {~€aa/leﬂzo go ,
Yo4~'»t/&§o1«4~o44//owltf/I10 14-Mv

  
 

HOPPER GENIE
got its start playing
in fraternity
basements.

 
   
 
   
 

sole member of the trio that met the require-

DOUG PEPDLE merit. Being honorable gentlemen, the students "
‘7CC0’”P“’f’eS- Taylor chose to tell the truth about their ages. They
0” the gum” were denied the opportunity to perform.
“For one day, we were all happy  it was
BY JON B gm}, WRITER our greatest success but also our biggest dis- 9

   

appointment,” said Taylor.

Hopper Genie has had to content them-
selves with Lexington venues. Their perfor-
mances on November 8 at the Sigma Nu house
and November 9 at Lambdapalooza met with "-
mixed results.

The party-goers enjoyed the music, al-
though attendance was not as good as it might
have been. As for future shows, look for Hop-
per Genie next month at Champs. No date is set
as of yet, as the band calls scheduling for its
concert dates “sporadic.”

The band puts on a tight show. They do play
cover songs, but their originals are deﬁnitely q
worth a listen. Peddle says their unique sound
comes from the band’s variety of inﬂuences. While
self-taught guitarist Taylor ’s inﬂuences are mostly
in punk, Peddle is more inﬂuenced by Pearl Jam
and Metallica, while Panzer ﬁnds inspiration in "
the classic rock of Jimi Hendrix and Cream.

This seems to be what keeps Hopper Genie
from being just another punk band. While their
songs ﬁt within the punk genre, the band’s other
inﬂuences add something unique to the music.

The band is unsure about what its status will
be after graduation in June, but hopes that it will
still be able to play together. They would love to
make a living doing what they do, but admit that V
making it big is very diﬁicult. For now, they are
just enjoying making music.

Although, admittedly, this band is not the
best to dance to or sing along with, it is a good
change from the music that normally dominates

Lexington’s party scene. It is a chance
to hear loud and fun songs like their
catchy hit “Beer Goggles,” and, in gen-
eral, just have a good time. Although it
might be difficult to get a mosh pit go-
ing, ifyou enjoy punk rock, you’ll enjoy
Hopper Genie.
“We’re loud and fast,” said Taylor.

ith a music scene dominated by DJ parties

and Grateful Dead cover bands, you

would not expect to see a band like Hop-
per Genie emerge as one of W&L’s most promising mu-
sical acts. Brandishing a heavy yet melodic punk sound,
similar to MxPx or Lagwagon (Green Day for those of
you who know nothing about punk), Hopper Genie is a
refreshing change for those who enjoy rocking out and
getting rowdy on Friday nights.

Made up of guitarist and songwriter Nate Tay-
lor, senior, bassist Doug Peddle, junior, and drum-
mer Doug Panzer, senior, Hopper Genie formed in
January 1996. Last year, they recorded some ma-
terial using Taylor’s own four track recorder and
the recording studio in DuPont. The product of
these efforts is a tape entitled “In My Pants” on
sale at Night Owl.

This summer, Hopper Genie had a chance at
fame and fortune when it was selected to appear at
the House of Blue in New Orleans. The band sent
a tape to an unsigned bands contest sponsored
by the House of Blues. The judges liked its sound
and chose Hopper Genie as one of the top ﬁve
bands in the New Orleans area.

When the band members got the news in July that
they had been picked, their elation was short-lived.

“We were supposed to go back to play at the
House of Blues in New Orleans,” said Taylor, “but
not all of us were 21, so we couldn’t do it.”

Jim Beam Whiskey, one of the contest’s spon-
sors, required bandmembers to sign a form to prove
that they were aged 21 or higher. Taylor was the

 
 
 
 

As for the origin of the name, the band
calls it a “secret.” But it’s no secret that as
long as Hopper Genie is around, punk rock
music lives on in Lexington.

— W&L1fe Associate Editor Liz Detter con-
ributed to this article.

(-

DOUG PANZER carries the punk beat. A

 

   

“You can kind of jump around to it.” I

 

  

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

RESULTS

Football (4-6)
Sat.:” Swarthmore 13
' W&L 41

Men’s X-Country
2nd place at NCAA South
Regional Meet

Women’s X-Country
7th place at NCAA South
Regional Meet

Men’s Swimming (1-2)

Sat.: W&L 75
Sewanee 118

Women’s Swimming

(1-2)

Sat: W&L 81

Centre 124

AHEAD

Men’s Basketball
Fri.: at Swarthmore
Sat.: at Haverford

Women’s Basketball
Fri.& at Camagie Mellon
Sat.: Tournament

Women’s Swimming
Sat.: at Hollins
Invitational Meet

PAGE 5

Sports

enerals end season with victory

Sophomore quaterback Christian Batcheller leads squad to a 41-13 win over
the Swarthmore Garnets, breaking two offensive records in the process

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
mm‘? STAFF \X/Rnm

The Generals closed out their
season in grand style Saturday on a
cold and grey afternoon as they de-
stroyed Swarthmore College 41-13.
Sophomore quarterback Christian
Batchellor threw for 296 yards and
four touchdowns and, broke two
school records, all while nursing an
ankle injury he suffered in the ﬁrst
quarter. On two consecutive plays
in the second quarter Batchellor
broke two separate single season
records as he set a new mark for
both touchdown passes and yard-
age.

Batchellor finished the season
with 1,998 passing yards and 15
touchdowns, breaking the old
records of 1,876 yards and 12
touchdowns set by Phillip Sampson.

The Generals ﬁnish the season at
4-6, winning four of their last six
games after starting the season with
four consecutive losses. The loss
completed the second consecutive
winless season for Swarthmore,
who ﬁnished the year at 0-10.

Batchellor had his way with the
Swarthmore defense all day long,
sitting back in the shotgun and us-
ing the strong accurate arm that has
brought him so much success. Had
Batchellor played the whole game

he most likely would have thrown
over 500 yards. J.T Malatesta also
ﬁnished a great season with a qual-
ity performance, catching six passes
for 130 yards and two touchdowns.

Senior captain Nick Hodge,
plagued by injuries all year, caught
his first and only touchdown ofthe
year, a 27 yard touchdown pass
from Christian Batchellor.

Swarthmore did hang around
early, scoring a touchdown early in
the second quarter after Joe Aleffi
took a screen pass from Ford
O’Connell in for the touchdown to
make the score 10-7 for the Gener-
als. But that was as close as they
got as the Generals offense took
advantage of four interceptions to
put the game out of reach by half-
time.

The victory marked the final
game for the Generals seniors, many
of whom played key roles on the
Generals defense, such as Matt
Luka, Ryan Fleetemeyer, Omar
Moneim, Jack Boyd, Scott Dynan,
and John Bennazi. The Generals
will also say farewell to tailback
Seth McKinley, wideout Nick
Hodge, and kicker Matt Holbrook.
Holbrook had a steller year, taking
care of all the kicking and punting
for the Generals. All ofthe seniors
will be sorely missed next season.

ON THE ATTACK, freshman Hanley Sayers carries the ball towards the endzone during one of his I 0 carries for 45
yards. Oﬂensively, the Generals were onﬁre, accumlating 450 yards on 71 plays. 308 of those yards were from passing
by sophomore quaterback Christian Batcheller. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Cross country winds
up a strong season

 

FALL ATHLETICS ROUNDUP

Old Dominion

 

Volleyball

FIRST TEAM
Hilary Martin
Nancy Reinhart

SECOND TEAM
Alison Beard

PLAYER OF THE YEAR
Nancy Reinhart

COACH OF THE YEAR
Terri Dadio

Women’s Soccer

FIRST TEAM
Nicole Johnson
Claire Bowers
Lorraine Taurassi
Karin Treese

SECOND TEAM
Erica Reineke

Athletic Conference
Honor Recipients

Men’s X-Country

FIRST TEAM _

Jason Callen

Will Olson
Greg Ruthig
Alex Taylor

SECOND TEAM
Darrick Alford
Taylor Schlutz

RUNNER OF THE YEAR
Jason Callen V

COACH OF THE YEAR
John Tucker

Men’s Soccer

FIRST TEAM
Mikel Parker
Jamie Parker

HONORABLE MENTION

Sam Chase
E. J. Murphy

BY FRANK RIZZO

 

Al-‘F WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
cross country team ﬁnished 17 points
behind Frostburg State to claim sec-
ond place on Saturday at the NCAA
Southern Regionals at Sewanee.
ODAC Runner of the Year senior cap-
tain Jason Callen qualiﬁed for the
NCAA Division III championships
next weekend, coming in ﬁfth place
with a time of 26:57. The top W&L
runners this weekend were All-ODAC
First Team members senior Will
Olson, with an 8th place ﬁnish (27: 13),
and Greg Ruthig, who ﬁnished 26th
(27:52). Other impressive perfor-
mances came from All-ODAC Second
Team members senior captain Taylor
Shultz, who cruised in at 19th positon
(27:37), and Alford who earned 29th
with a time of 27:55. Except for Callen,
who will be competing in the NCAA
Division Ills next weekend, the sea-
son is over for the rest of the squad.
Olson summed up his career and this
last meet: “We were disappointed. We
ran as well as we could. We worked

hard all season an, unfortunately, had
a bad day when it counted. As a se-
nior, it was a bookend to my career to
ﬁnish with the ﬁrst four senior run-
ners on our team. The four of us did
the same thing freshman year.”

The women’s cross country team
also had a strong race this weekend at
the Southern Regionals. Leading them
to their 7th place ﬁnish was junior
Natasha Dorofeeva, ﬁnishing in 20th
place with a time of 20:07. Other top
ﬁnishers were senior captain Carson
Flowers in 24th place (20:18), Lisa
Brenan in 50th (21:11), and Ashley
Smith in 56th (21:30). According to
Flowers, “It was a really good season.
The freshmen did really well and
helped us out a lot towards the end of
the season. Everyone improved. We
ended the season on a high note with
a strong showing at Regionals.”

Both cross country squads were
supported by the strength of their
underclass runners. Though it was the
ﬁnal season for the senior leaders of
the two teams, the core of younger
talent ensures these teams will have
successful seasons in the future.

Do you play an intramural sport?
Would you like to publicize your success?

Give your pictures
and results to the
Ring-tum Phi!

Then everyone will know.
And you’ll be proud.

 

 
   

O

PAGE -6

ion
rial

Nov. 17, 1997

Relax, they are
only your grades

The ﬁnal few weeks of Fall Term 1997 are here.

Everyone on campus is freaking out, trying to
ﬁgure out what percentage of their grade has been
determined in each class, hoping that their is a
glimmer of hope for a higher grade.

So when you are stressing out this week, re-
member a few things. These are your grades, it
is really not worth risking your health over. There
are much more important things to worry about
—— seniors, have you found a job yet?

There are plenty of things to do to de-stress
this week. If you need a study break, there are
plenty of good shows to watch that aren’t broad-
cast on Thursday night on NBC. Spin City,
Michael J. Fox’s television comeback is on ABC
Wednesday at 8 p.m. Party of Five is on FOX
Wednesday at 9 p.m. Frasier is on NBC at 9
p.m. Tuesday. Miami Vice, the X-Files and the
A-Team are all on FX every night.

Remember all of those other shows you never
missed in high school? Many of them are still
on, just ﬁnd someone with a television, tell them
to go to the library to study, grab a coke and re-
lax for a little while.

For sports junkies, ESPN has the Florida Pan-
thers and the New York Rangers Tuesday night
at 7:30 p.m. Don’t forget the 2 a.m. SportsCenter
every night.

For those of you who aren’t “TV” people, there
are a host of lectures this week. Patrick Buchanan
is the biggest of these, but there are several oth-
ers. The W&L calendar lists them all. Go over to
the Lenfest Center Wednesday night and listen
to some of your talented classmates at the Ap-
plied Music recital at 8 p.m.

There is always packing for your trip home next
week. Packing is a great way to eat away hours.

Seniors, have you ﬁnished that work on your
resume that you’ve been meaning to do?

Don’t worry, like exam week, you’ll get by.
Find a senior and ask them about their ten favor-
ite ways to procrastinate and de-stress. Four years
at this school teaches you to be a pro at that, if
nothing else.

“ iuoite of the week:

Remove Parrott from
building.
—— Helth Department inspection report

77

@112 liking-tum lﬁht

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs

Associate Editor Andrea Ewing

News Editor
w&life Editors

Kathryn Mayurnik
Liz Detter
Tarah Grant

Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg

Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie

Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

Asst. Advertising Editor

Rebecca Cuny

Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown
Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sybmissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reflect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

Upperclassmen hangups with housing

Washington and Lee University should not require
sophomores to live on campus.

W&L cannot offer enough housing for both the
sophomore class and juniors and seniors who want to
live on campus. Requiring sophomores to live on cam-
pus against their will means that upperclassmen who
want to live in W&L liousing must suffer through the
uncertainty of the lottery system. Worse, the require-
ment forces some upperclassmen to face the possibil-
ity of living in an apartment or house that they
cannot afford.

gr-" Brick Row
‘<‘-if:-oavid Balsley 99

W&L does not guarantee housing to juniors and se-
niors. W&L cannot determine how many students will
be living in Gaines or the Woods Creek Apartments
until after Winter Rush. At that point, sophomore
women and men who have not joined a fraternity are
allotted rooms. The remaining rooms are divided up
among rising juniors and seniors, who receive top pri-
ority for the Woods Creek Apartments.

If more rising juniors and seniors want on-campus
apartments than are available, some will be left out in

Alternatives  
to Tuesday’s
party scene

Tired of the monotonous W&L social scene? Don’t
feel like wasting away another night in an alcoholic
stupor? Well don’t worry, because now the Tuesdays!
Committee is here to provide fun and exciting alterna-
tives to’ the smothering Tuesday night party scene. Hey,
check out these fresh upcoming Tuesdays! events:

 

- Nov. 18 — Stuttering poetry reading. Hear some
of today’s leading stuttering poets read their most fa-
mous works. Donald Kelly reads his epic “The-the L-
1-l-l-1-1-leaves in th-the- T-t—t-t-t-trees in A-a-April,”
Kelly McDonald reads her,“L-l—l-love on A S-s-s-s-
Sunday,” and much, much, much, much, much more.
- Dec. 2 — The Controlled Eating Experiment. Find
out how long it really takes for those extra calories to
show up. Free cheesecake is provided, and members
of the Rockbridge County Weight Watchers will be
standing by with scales. Put on the entire “Freshman
15” in half an hour!
- Dec. 9 — Brain Damaged. Rockbridge County’s
only all-banjo Pink Floyd tribute band. See the show
that the Floyd’s Roger Waters dubbed “insulting, em-
barrassing, and terriﬁcally off-key.”
- Dec. 16 — Mark Markowicz. A one man entertain-
ment extravbaganza. He sings. He dances. He plays
17 instruments at once. He tells jokes. He juggles. He
repairs airplane engines. He cooks a seven course meal.
He chews his own arm off and surgically reattaches it.
Rolling Stone calls him “the most entertaining college
act we’ve seen in minutes.”
° Jan. 6 — Shakespearean mime theater. See some
of today’s hottest street mimes act out classic scenes
from Shakespeare’s plays. “Very quiet” —— the News
Gazette. “I don’t remember Hamlet being trapped in
an invisible box” — the News Dispatch. “Terriﬁcally
off-key” — Roger Waters. “Speak up!” — the Dis-
patch Gazette.
- Jan. 13 -— Nick Gatto, the oboe experience. New
Jersey’s fourth best oboe player brings his exciting one
man electric oboe show to W&L. “Much louder than
those f***ing mimes” — the Times Gazette Dispatch.
“There wasn’t a dry eye in the house, mainly becuase
everyone walked out” — the Courier Post Ledger. “The
J imi Hendrix of the oboe, except that J irni had talent” —
the Daily Herald Gazette.
- Jan 20 —— Paint! The only act that splatters paint on the
wall and lets you watch it dry! Great fun for C-school
majors and other dull people. “Still better than the mimes”
— The Daily Ledger Post Dispatch Post. “Heh-heh, look
at it dry!” — the Ledger Ledger Gazette Times Ledger.
“Dry, but still magniﬁcently off-key” — Roger Waters.
Yes, the Tuesdays! Committee. Because who ever
said fun has to be any fun?
Disclaimer: If you stutter, play the oboe and/or banjo,
are a mime, C-school major and/or Roger Waters, please
address your complaint letter and/or subpoena to:

The Opinion Page Editor
The Trident
W&L University Center

 

the cold. Consequently, rising juniors and seniors cannot
count on campus housing.

This system is ﬂawed.

First, it is insulting to take the ability to make deci-
sions away from rising sophomores, who are supposed to
be mature and responsible enough to care for themselves.

Second, requiring sophomores who would rather live
somewhere else to move into campus housing forces some
juniors and seniors off campus. Both groups would be
much happier if sophomores were allowed to move off
campus so that rising juniors and seniors could move
on campus.

Third, the lottery system forces rising juniors and se-
niors who want to live on campus to wait until the spring
to ﬁnd out if there will be room for them. At this point, if
they did not get a campus apartment, they will have a
hard time ﬁnding somewhere else to live since leases for
many houses and apartments are signed in the fall. Due
to Winter Rush, however, the lottery cannot be held ear-
lier in the year. Under the current system, rising juniors
and seniors face months of uncertainty. .

Last, and most importantly, requiring sophomores to
live on campus means the possibility exists that some jun-
iors and seniors may have to live in off campus apart-
ments and houses they cannot afford.'Students who need
to live on campus because W&L housing would be cheaper

 
 

than the apartments or houses they could ﬁnd elsewhere
are not guaranteed housing. They must deal with the pos-
sibility of having to ﬁnd a house or apartment they cannot
afford.

Not requiring sophomores to live on campus could help
to relieve these problems. Allowing rising sophomores to
do what they want would mean that campus housing could
be guaranteed to more rising juniors and seniors. At the
very least, rising juniors and seniors could be told earlier
in the year how many rising sophomores are moving off
campus and how many rooms would be available.

Whether or not requiring sophomores to live on cam-
pus promotes sophomore class unity could be debated.
Whether class unity is more important than providing hous-
ing to students who cannot afford to live elsewhere is
equally questionable.

The Board of Trustees’ decision to build sorority houses
raises a ﬁnal possibility. W&L could allow sophomores

to live off campus until the sorority houses were built. At -

that point, there would probably be enough campus hous-
ing both for the sophomore class and for juniors and se-
niors who want or need to live here. W&L could then
decide whether it wants or needs to reinstate the require-
ment that sophomores live on campus.

Until then, sophomores should not be required to live
on campus.

Dilbutt

by Sam Adams

ooa-teem-—r, Cll-ccI< rumour.’ I are r my am.
1” ,4 cu.” doom. Sale‘: /4 Alva “core 45

4 89-;-,-ow-3 lag wit: I 1 LITTLE c¢~t=us£0
no MMNTS To um/E Lsser4~ cv3stLs€:<

1, (KP!-’.-¢l0'IE;v7_t rats /5 so not»!

    
   
 

tow IOOULD :atewANT
1'» rmvg 4.55::/t/V ,
(Y<?EK.£&¥ “l1’IIY"°-

l
l

wo~l>E& wukr or-2 coups cute?

   

/"1

I \ Avrrogg

vuEu—, ‘I To-D o+r—tL THAT I use A /6
YEAR 090 atm, co1vFvJ‘E0 /PGWT my
sexoat. toeurt-‘r~/, ‘roof

\

‘nus IS 50 coon‘,

 

Making W&L a state school

Why did you come to W&L? I came here because it
wasn’t a big nameless, faceless state school; because W&L
was different. Now a dubious plan has begun to make
W&L more like one of those cookie-cutter schools.

Few people, normally just seniors, are actually happy
with our current class registration process. Lines, people
camping out, and classes ﬁlling up early are all among
the complaints I have heard with the current system.

My View -
. Douglas Brown ’98

Plans are now in the works to move to an online regis-
tration process, in which you would use a computer to
pick your classes. No more lines. No more people camp-
ing out for classes. No more talking to professors. Just
you shut up in a dark room with your computer picking
your classes. Or if you don’t own a networked computer,
you’ll be waiting in line at the computer labs the day of
registration. Half the student body lives off-campus; will
they be expected to dial-in to the school’s facilities, which
are sketchy at best, pay RGV for the time to register, or
use the computer labs?

What’s wrong with this picture? Isn’t faculty-student

 

 

interaction one of things we treasure most? Isn’t the dis-
cretion that the faculty is able to exercise over the speciﬁc
students in their classes part of the academic freedom they
have as professors?

There are problems with the current system —‘ namely
not enough faculty involvement. Whenever possible, I
want the professor to sign me up for the class. If I don’t
like the professor well enough to ask about getting into
their class, then I am not going to take their class. The
lines and people camping out come into the picture when
the department secretaries handle the registration, but the
current process still isn’t that bad.

What is so wrong with camping out to get a class? If
getting into the right class is not important enough for
you to wake up a little early, then maybe that class isn’t
important enough for you to take. People like to com-
plain, but I have actually had some enjoyable times camp-
ing out for classes since I have been here. Leam to enjoy
it; it is part of this school Having the right attitude going
into it makes all the difference.

Statements have been made that camping out and still
not getting into the class you need isn’t “fair.” This new
system is supposed to make registration “fair.” Got some

{D See REGISTRATION page 7

What do you think about Buchanan coming to W&L?

‘‘It should be interesting to hear
such a closed-minded person
speak.”

—~ Mike Critenden ’0l

“Pat Buchanan is a sexist, ho-
mophobic, anti-semetic, xenopho-
bic Christian extremist.”

 

 

— Ashley Marano ’0O ion”,

-— Adam Henry ’00

“I think that it’s great that some-
one so controversial will happen
here. It’ll force people to appreci-
ate the right to express their opin-

“While he’s not everybody’s fa-
vorite person, and not everyone
shares his viewpoints, he has a
needed insight into issues that need
examining.”

—— Kevin Funk ’00

 

5

1.

    

1 NOVEMBER 17, 1997

How to succeed in invest-

BY SARA MELDRUM
-4- STAFF WRITER

Seniors Phil Barret and Reed
Deupree received $1 million last Sat-
urday. The Board of Trustees ap-
proved their proposal for the Williams
Investment Society, a student invest-
ment group, and dished out $1 mil-
lion from the school’s endowment.

The WIS will serve as a money
manager to the school. ‘If the group’s
investments make any money in the
long term, the Board will decide how
to use it. However, the primary aim
of the group is to educate students and
give them an opportunity to learn
about investing.

The recent stock market crash and
the subsequent cheap prices were a
dream come true for some investors,
but the’WIC was unable grab the op-
portunity.

“We would have liked to have had
cash on hand on the 27th,” said group

BY ANDREA EWING
——————e——- ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Expressions of concern, confu-
sion and support dominated the at-
mosphere of the Lexington Planning
Commission meeting Thursday
night.

The Project Horizon Safe House
for battered women was the topic of
discussion as Project Horizon’s
Board of Directors sought a condi-
tional use permit. If the proposal is
approved, the house will be built at
16 Fuller Street.

Kitty Sachs, director of the
Project Horizon Board, said the lot
is “ideal.” Its location is within
walking distance of elementary
schools, the grocery store» and the
Project Horizon Office. The house
will also be only a half-block from
the Police Station.

Safe House Project Director
Brian Richardson addressed the
Commission with the particulars of

founder Barret. “Corrections not trig-
gered by changes in long-terrn eco-
nomic fundamentals can create great
buying opportunities - essentially,

ing a million without trying

corporations go on sale.”
The W1C will invest only in the

 SEE CASH PAGE 2

    

MONEY MAN The Board of Trustees gave the Williams Investment

Society $1 milion to invest. H0LL1s7‘1;RH0V15I//PH070 EDITOR

Battered women’s shelter 1
given preliminarynod

the house. It will be a little under
3,000 square feet, and house two or
three families at once. The plans
call for it to look very similar to
other one family houses on the
street. .

“It will fulfill a critical commu-
nity need,” Richardson said, “We
will provide a safe environment,
and we will be good neighbors.”

After the presentation of the
plans for the house, the Commission
called for comments from the sev-
eral people gathered in the first floor
courtroom. I

Many residents of the Diamond
Hill community do not want the
house to be built in their neighbor-
hood.

‘‘I am totally against it being in
my front door,” one resident said,
“We don’t need it there.”

Pastor of the Lexington First
Baptist Church Lavert Taylor says
the Commission needs to recognize

the resident’s concern and reassure
them of their safety.

Residents of Fuller and Massey
Streets expressed their anxiety.
Many cited the history of violence
in the community. When asked what
the residents’ main concern was
Doris Porterfield answered that lo-
cation was the issue.

Sachs then asked, “Doris, is your
point that other undesirable things
have been built in your neighbor-
hood?”

Sachs then said that one member
of Project Horizon will be in the
Safe House 24 hours a day.

Of the two conditional use per-
mits for group homes that are now
in existence, both are on the other
side of Main Street.

The Planning Commission will
vote on the conditional use permit in
two weeks, and if it is approved by
the City Council, construction will
begin the first weekend of April.

    

 

45°
22°

High:
Low:

Wednesday

~« Ami-v—'x~ »rv**'*2‘!

High: 44°
Low: 28°

This Week’s Weather:

Tuesday

Thursday

    

High: 43°
Low: 26°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

 

High: 53°
Low: 28°

Saturday

    

High: 58°
Low: 33°

I1€WS

 

Attention C-School majors...

CJ112 iliing-tum {ﬂirt

is looking for a business manager to
take over at the beginning of Winter
Term.

Gain some practical experience run-
ning the financial side of a newspaper.
Gain some valuable resumematerial.

If you are interested, please call the
Phi offices at 462-4060 or send e—mail
to phi@wlu.edu.

 

Wanted lll! individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS ‘TFIIWIT

Z3‘

. . . . . . .._

Ms. Miller,
Mr. Zacher,
Mr. Hardie, ,
Ms. Mayurnik,
Ms. Detter, and
Ms. Hovey
invite you to be
a part of the
Sunday 5 a.m.
crew in the Phi
ofﬁce.

. Over 75 accredited courses
C French Immersion Program
C Fine Arts Program

C Advanced Photography and
Web Design Programs

C Cultural Excursions

198 ’%i‘

For more inﬁzrmatian, tall or write:

The American University of Paris
Summer Programs, Box S-2000
102 rue St. Dominique

75007 Paris, France

Tel. (33/1) 40 62 06 14

Fax (33/1) 40 62 0717

New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414

THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGs THAT WE CAN

REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP Us ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT .-
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE
.THE TOYOTA GOROLLA. OVER THEI>AsT 30 YEARS,
OROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
ARS IN THE WORLD. AND Now IT'S ALL-NEw...wITH
MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
LUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL,
IT'S MORE ECONOM1CAL...UP TO as MILEs PER
GALLON HIGHWAY. GOROLLA IS SAFER AND
QUIETER, AND BEST OF ALL, IT sTARTs

Web site - http://www.aup.fr
E-mail - Summer@aup.fr

 

 A\./' \ /'

SYRACUSE
SUMMER ABROAD

AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
MONEY. WHAT A

A R E F R E S H l N G

CHAN” Asia - Africa - Europe

South America 0 Australia

Internships - Academic Programs 0 Traveling Seminars

For information contact: Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad
1-800-251-9674 0 DlPAsum@suadmin.syr.edu

ToYoTA or/orqolaq

 

PAGE 8

a an of liilumor, Opiuiou,

last Wgfd

 

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

Empty hellos, brief meaningless eye contact, fake smiles and a nanosecond of recognition:

Hey, Whazzup with the Speaking Traditon?

By Iora Ellison

P121’ Staff Writer

It’s 4:00 on Wednesday afternoon and you just bombed
the biology test that you’ve been sweating over for the
past 28 hours.

You got two and a half hours of sleep last night, you
haven’t showered in what feels like weeks, your face is
broken out and you’re PMSing. You have a history paper
due tomorrow that you haven’t started yet, you’re dying
for a cigarette and have no money on your card. Actually,
you lost your card, so you can’t get food either. You’ve
decided that you hate this school, socially and academi-
cally, and really all you want to do is lie down on the side-
walk right there and sleep/cry.

As you shuffle forward in your zombie-lil<e state, beau-
tiful Mary (ﬁll in appropriate 2nd name) strolls
by in her short black skirt, tight sweater, with perfect
makeup, and smooth hair that’s neatly curled under and
perhaps adorned with a bow. She smiles a glossy smile
and, though she barely knows you, greets you with a,
“Hey. Whazzup?” And you respond, despite all your ail-
ments, “Fine. How are you?” Sound familiar?

Someday I’m going to break loose and tell that random
person along the Colonnade sincerely what’s up. “Actu-
ally, Mary , I’m having a miserable week, and a

very confusing year. I don’t know where my life is head-
ing and I’ve considered that moving to Mexico and wash-
ing dishes in the back of a trashy restaurant might be a
nice alternative to this straight and narrow path towards
the American middle class. I’m tired of pretending and
being surrounded by pretenders. I thought that by com-

university I would

And if someone asks you how you are doing, answer
them truthfully.

Everyone knows that in order to matriculate at this
school that you have to be told about the wonderful
speaking tradition at least, I don’t know, two or three
thousand times. And I chose this school largely be-
cause I loved the idea ofliving in
a small community where every-

ing to an elite
(C

be surrounding
myself with intel-
lectual thought
and the pursuit of
life’s meanings.
Instead, I’ve
found myself in a
world where we

Perhaps as we nod our heads at one
another in recognition, we should think
about why it is that Lee set up the tradi-

tion in the first place.

one said hello and made you feel
as though you belonged. I guess
what is lacking is a sense of sin-
cerity behind it. I still get several
heys every time I go to class, but
they tend to be mere acknowledg-
ments of my existence, habitual
respect of the tradition, not an at-

all follow the pat-
tern. We wear ,
our pretty clothes, major in economics, take a passively
conservative standpoint, join fraternities and sororities,
get drunk on the weekends, and thoughtlessly smile and
say hello to each other as we pass. How are you?”

After that, I would probably have people fleeing in
all directions at the sight of me on the hill. But I say, if
you don’t care about how someone is doing, don’t ask.

Garden provides a fresh experience

 

Doug and Josh stopped at the
Palms for a few drinks while Robin
and Christine shopped downtown.
Then we all piled into Blue, Robin’s
Volvo, and headed down to road to
freedom, W&L-style: Roanoke. We
drove straight to the Olive Garden,
where the crowd was growing on a
busy Friday night. After a brief
twenty-minute wait in the bar, where
Josh and Doug tried Mai Thais and
Robin sipped a strawberry daiquiri,
we took our seats in a spacious
booth.

Our waitress quickly appeared
to take drink orders. Christine se-
lected sweet tea, while Josh or-
dered Coke. Doug ordered a glass
of the house white Zinfandel,

water. We also ordered

tion. Josh commented, “I like this
reviewing thing. You get to try new
things. I like that a lot. It rocks.”

As with the appetizer, the salad was
quickly served, and we cleaned out
the bowl with ease. Doug requested
fresh ground pepper for his salad,
which was belatedly produced by our
waitress. She left the pepper grinder
with our table, however, so Doug was
able to use it on his entree as well.
The salad was fresh and appetizing,
topped with a light dressing, croutons
and freshly grated cheese. At this
point Josh excused himself brieﬂy from
the table. Remember this.

Shortly thereafter the main dishes
arrived. Christine enjoyed her peren-
nial favorite, Lasagna Classico, which
met her usual standards. Josh had
ordered
the

Chicken Parmigiana. This time Josh
found it tasty and plentiful, with three
pieces of chicken and an excellent
sauce, but a previous visit to the Ol-
ive Garden left him disappointed with
this dish, he told us. Hearing his defa-
mation, the great Olive Garden fan
Christine responded, “Shut your
mouth, you heathen!” The engaged

said to be more health-conscious than
other entrees. This signiﬁed no re-
duction in size, however, as the entree
arrived in a dish larger than Robin’s
head, overﬂowing with bow-tie pasta
and stir-fried chicken and vegetables,
tossed in a light sauce. The chicken
was well—seasoned, and the veg-
etables were complimentary to the
pasta and chicken. Robin was pleased
with her meal but brought half of it
home in a“To Go” box.

Just as Christine, Robin and
Doug began to discuss dessert op-
tions, we heard clapping in the dis-
tance. Suddenly a large number of
waiters and waitresses descended
upon our table, clapping, singing,
and placing a small mint green
chocolate cake before Doug. Josh
could not suppress his pleased

look, having tipped the wait

staff off about Doug’s re-

cent birthday.

5 Rather than try-

ing the dessert

menu, which we all knew to contain

numerous excellent options, we ate

cake and laughed at a,very embar-

rassed Doug, who hates surprises.

Doug mentioned then that he ate at

one of the first Olive Gardens, an

experiment to test the restaurant’s

market appeal, which opened near

his home in Houston nearly ﬁfteen

years ago. Old Man Doug turned
twenty-three last Tuesday.

We boxed up the remaining»
cake and, gathering our com-

while Robin stuck with

an appetizer, hot arti-
choke-spinach dip, to
start the meal. The wait-
ress quickly supplied our
drinks and warm
breadsticks; the latter
disappeared, as did two
additional baskets during

The chicken was well—seasoned,

and the vegetables were

complimentary to the pasta and

chicken.

the meal.

The appetizer arrived shortly there-
after, with warm pieces of toasted
bread and celery sticks for dipping.
Even the men in the party enjoyed this
vegetable-laden dish, and after we
dipped all ofthe provided bread and
celery, we tried other items so as not
to waste the dip. Josh and Doug
even expressed a preference for
jalapeno peppers, found in the salad,
with the dip, although Christine and
Robin declined to try this concoc-

couple then launched into an argu-
ment on the merits of II Palazzo versus
those of the Olive Garden.

Feeling adventurous and raven-
ous, Doug dove into the Pasta
Abbondanza, which included grilled
chicken, fettuccini alfredo, and cannoli
ﬁlled with meat and cheese. He was
pleased with the wide variety and plen-
tiful portions in his dish. Robin opted
for one of the Garden Fare menu op-
tions, Chicken Giardino, which was

Colonnade Club

aw 17M aumwmé uroooniile etaeeou 6’ W§L

plimentary mints and as much
energy as we could muster,
moved slowly out of the res-
taurant with very full stom-
' achs. The Olive Garden is al-
ways an excellent option for a

hearty meal at a reasonable-

price, and for occasions when

you want to embarrass the
birthday boy, or girl, it’s a solid
choice. The escape from Lex Vegas is
also a desirable feature, as well as the
Olive Garden’s location adjacent to
Valley View Mall. The wait staff is
friendly and helpful, although some-
what harried on weekend evenings.
For a reliable and tasty meal, whether
in Roanoke, Erie, Chattanooga, Hous-
ton or anywhere the chain has
reached, the Olive Garden is
a sure bet.

9 ) tempt to make any sort of actual
human connection.

Perhaps as we walk along the Colonnade and casu-
ally nod our heads at one another in recognition, we
should think about why it is that Lee set up the tradi-
tion_in the first place. If we see each person that we
pass as someone full of deep thoughts, dreams, fears
and confusion, then maybe we can look them in the
eyes and give them a sincere smile and hello.

 

MONDAY ‘A’ 8 p.m. Netherlands Chamber Choir in

the Lenfest Center ‘A’ TU$DAY * 4 p.m. Allen

Mandelbaum Speech ‘A’ 7 p.m. Lawerence Rosen ‘A’
7:30 p.m. Pat Buchanan * eat Thanksgiving dinner at

the D-Hall ‘A’ WEDNESDAY ‘A’ 8 p.m. Applied

Music Recital in the Lenfest Center * AY

‘A’ study for that test you have Friday ‘A’ pack ‘A’ watch
T.V. if you have already accomplished the above sugges-

tions ‘A’ FRIDAY ‘A’ go home ‘A’

l

/

i/,//,_ .t’/,/_.../ /I/ ////"

l///ll .-’/ /l//:,, //[(.,r/’

‘Living in a m

By Andrea Ewing

P121’ Associate Editor

Have you ever wondered what you would do with a
million bucks?

Well, the Board of Trustees gave the Williams Invest-
ment Club one million dollars from the school’s endow-
ment to invest in the stock market.

This caused me to wonder what I would do if I had that
much’ money. I certainly would not invest it in the stock
market. Well, maybe a little, but I would deﬁnitely have to
blow a little of it before even actually considering responsi-
bility.

Let’s see, there
was that pony I
wanted for my
seventh birthday,
which my parents
never bought me
— no, I’m not bit-
ter. I could also
start looking at
the 1998 Jaguar.
But, what about
buying a nice little
weekend house in
St. Thomas, and a
jet to get me there.

Other sugges-
tions to spend a
million greenbacks on: one million Cokes to pass out on
campus (Die, Pepsil), a huge pizza party for the entire stu-
dent body, a printing plant so the Phi could go intema-
tional, a million lotto tickets, a villa in the south of France, a
Fancy Dress date.

I know that paying my parents back for the tuition and
spending money for these four years of my life would be
the proper thing to do. But can’t I be greedy for once? A
little bit of planning could allow me to make use of the
money for years to come, but what about instant gratiﬁca-
tion? Admit it-, we all want a little bit of fun. '

This would be kind of like winning the lottery. What

 

aterial world’

would you do? Would you quit school and spend the
cash, or would you take the responsible route and plan for
the future?

I hear cases of people winning millions of dollars and
then keeping their jobs working at the local factory, and I
question these people’s sanity. Maybe we should con-
sider that they are actually doing the responsible thing.

But, where is the fun in this? I want to take the money
and spend it not considering the results. Non-eamed cash
is meant to be spent.

The Barbie Dream House and the pink Corvette were
Christmas wishes as a child, but when I think about it a
huge mansion and
a race-car would
not be that bad.
“We are living in a
material world, and
I am a material girl.”

Diamonds may
be a girl’s best
friend, but cash is
even better. It’s
real, and you can
spend it. Do with it
what you will. My
personal choice is
to be the irrespon-
sible twenty-year
old that I am —take
advantage of my
youth and when
someone asks me why I was so stupid, tell them, “I only
wanted to have a little fun.”

We live in a society that puts an emphasis on what we
have and not who we are. A nice car, a designer name
wardrobe, and the ability to spend your summers in Eu-
rope must be nice. Supposedly money cannot lead to hap-
piness, but it sure can make us a lot more comfortable than
we could be without it.

The next time the Board of Trustees decides to dole out
a little bit ofcash, I hope it will keep me in mind. And ifmy
luck holds out, it will happen before I am too resonsible to
enjoy it.

By Hollister Hovey

17/tr Bur/mum old Hie“\/mug 

   
   
  
     

Wt 8uol—t#<t\)AN to
,, . _?té1oH A cow «evil.

_  5; C0l/(\lT?- WOULD
 BE A Mvotl iiaemea
Moe lz’— lie: wan;
fiZt%ii>eNT. WE New
Awtw Maze oi:
U19 t2l2M\Ji>‘ OF

 

"éoMram\ie'g vw/as km;
é0lM&T’0 FZEV/llL.wHvl( Hal
0”"-97Wltv9E z/ouut Z1 L4 if
it N‘twM’.’ wttma l/imam,
(ml/‘(Z swig we MML
uxirez-Peae witll Mwé
gill/‘I’ ED 136 /‘-1’/Wvlfloirle
t at, ur Must xr
Aldo Vizoreor lrtlé  F
T095 M7lZAot1cw(,
4/oi7oMIte? —9uomwIw
The iéwaxs an aw.
Z7}; -01»

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

1% clrtw Au btxl l’lVl"lt>99XUf<L‘7. ..

   

4 QALLA5 Mcztxlm
, NEW6, 1.-Mb

    

 

Buokkwkuou WoM¢N;_| “womaq
gag ./7iMt7i,\{ Nt7i”6NDOW6P WlTH’lH‘E
ewe Mtawauﬂe 0F 9lN bl,9’MlNl799
kMgmviJ mo THE \/VKLLTD 6944660
IN TH12 Ftazc aw wM?armvE watzw
w 0? WEQTEFN awtrrxtiemt‘ —
WT \77Uolrt>«Np<N

4T-WVI5 70‘fl'-Dl’2F,A:t‘ul 7.-16410 \

 

 

 

. -ix

Will Hardie is trying Very
hard to get clean, but it’s tOO

    

Men’s basketball
scores third place in

Your house is a very very
fine house._..
But are you ppymg too

D -— much. the St. Louis much work because someone
—-I ind out — ?heck out -the tournement. keeps taking his detergent.
ca Rmg- tum Plus rent survey.

’ PAGE 3 PAGE 4 PAGE 6

«   ~ 4' 4' :;i.:.::.
‘ Penlfiiilgo. 7
- I Lexington. Va.
x Washington and Lee University ’ M0"d3Y
DECEMBER 8, 1997

   

 

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 9

. Sophomore
injured in

‘hoﬁday

“accident

BY COURTNEY MILLER AND SYBIL PRINCE
——-——:-——j EXECUTIVE EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

Q9 Track team co-captain, Jill Kosch,
will be out for at least the first
three months of the season
because her neck was broken in a
car crash.

A Washington and Lee sophomore sustained serious in-
juries, including a broken neck and a ruptured spleen in a
car accident Friday, Nov. 21. Jill Kosch is co-captain of the
track team; her injuries may sideline her for the
entire season.

Kosch is part of the university’s record holding team for
A the 100-meter and 400-meter relays. She is recovering at
her home in Columbus, Neb., and expects to return in time
for Winter Tenn.

Junior Chris Zarek was driving Alfred Dom inek, junior,
and Kosch to National Airport in Washington, D.C., when
the accident occurred. Zarek’s Saturn slammed into the back
, of another car.

i Neither Zarek or Dominek were available to comment.
‘ “It was very scary. At that time I didn’t know what my

,, injuries were and I was pretty frightened,” said Kosch.

Kosch was initially taken to the Shenandoah County Hospi-
tal in Woodstock, Va. The attending physician determined. her
injuries were more serious than the hospital could handle and
transfened her to the University of Virginia Medical Center.

3 Zarek called Kosch’s family and informed them of the acci-
dent. Her parents ﬂew to Washington, D.C., and then drove to
Charlottesville. They arrived late Saturday attemoon.

The doctors determined that Kosch had fractured two verte-
brae in her neck and several ribs and had ruptured her spleen.

‘ At UVa., Kosch was shuffled back and forth between

departments. She said she spent six hours getting CAT scans

and X-rays to detennine the extent of her injuries. At first
doctors feared Kosch might be paralyzed. Further tests re-
vealed that her vertebrae had not severed any nerves in her
spinal column and that her spleen would heal on its own.

She remained in the hospital for the next six days and was re-

leased on Thanksgiving day.

“Jill was in such great physical condition,” said John Tucker,
1 I(osch’s track coach. “The doctors said it aided her condition.”

Kosch stayed in Charlottesville for follow-up treatments
through the weekend and returned to Nebraska on Monday.
Tucker said that Kosch will be missed as a team leader and one
of the strongest sprinters.

“J ill’s participation is drastically curtailed. She won’t even
be able to start jogging until spring break,” he said. “But

, University plans garage, arts center

 

creative decorating of the fraternity houses. Although the KA ’s once again proved no one
in the house can see in color and the Phi Delts found tinsel in every color, some houses

. like Beta Theta Pi (pictured above) managed to look somewhat festive as well as beautiful.
Ho1.1.1sr1;R HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

LEXINGTON’s JINGLE BEILS JROCKED 

this weekend during Christmas weekend, a long -standing W&L
tradition. This was the last chance most students had to let lose before
the onset of ﬁnals. W&L was thrust into the Christmas spirit by the

even if she’s not out on the track she will be participating 
helping me make decisions as all my captains do.”

The track team began practicing in mid-November and their
first meet is in January. Kosch will be in a neck brace for the
next three months.

“Hopefully I’ll catch the tail end of the season. It’s kind of a
bummer I have to miss the first couple of months,” Kosch said.

Since Kosch will not be able to retum for finals, her profes-
sois are sending them to her. She will be able to take them in
Nebraska.

“Everyone has been really helpful and understanding,”
Kosch said.

Series of thefts continue:

Looters take
advantage of
empty Gaines
Hall during break

 

IO

 

Jll Elizabeth Kosch ‘00

BY HEATHER MCDONALD
——————-—-—— STAFF WRITER
Washington and Lee may ‘end up
with a major face-lift if all fares well
for the Master Plan.
7 The plan includes sorority housing,
a parking garage, a university com-
mons and a music and arts center.
There are also plans to improve the
outdoor athletic facilities and to
reconﬁgure the Lee Chapel Memorial
Gates, located at the very front of the
campus.

“The construction will introduce
problems, but they can be solved,”
said Frank Parsons, Coordinator of
Facilities Planning. The construction
will cause parking shortages, Parsons
said. “We hope that after that period,
temporary inconvenience will be re-
placed by conditions better than be-
fore,” Parsons said.

Parsons cites the sorority houses as
a high priority.

“We have started the process of

Greeks

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
-—--m-—— NEWS EDITOR

’Tis the season for skiing in Vail. ’Tis
the season for window shopping in New
York. ’Tis the season for gathering around

a table for a big Christmas dinner. _Al- .

though the lives of Washington and Lee
students are opulent compared to those
of some in the surrounding area, some
are making sure that it is the season for
everyone, including the poor.

Pi Beta Phi runs an “angel tree” for its

approval with the city immediately so
by the time we receive ﬁnal approval
we will have selected an architect for
the sorority [housing] project,” he
said.

If all goes well, the university and
the city of Lexington should be pro-
ceeding to review site plans by early
summer. The proposed location for
sorority housing is off the ravine be-
hind the upper tennis courts, near the
stadium. The houses will extend to
Nelson Street. Five houses will be
built and room is being reserved for a
sixth house.

The university commons will be
built behind the Williams School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics
extending below ground level off the
ravine. It will replace most of the
parking spaces behind the Graham-
Lees and Reid Hall. The administra-
tion is working with consulting ﬁrm
Litsky, Craig and Associates, in or-
der to analyze space and feasibility

give time, energy

Christmas philanthropy. In coordination
with the Salvation Army and Wal-Mart,
Pi Phi set up a Christmas tree, omamented
with the ages and sizes of children be-
tween ages four and 12, outside the Co-
op. People can take the ornaments and
buy a present for thechild described.
“The angel tree provides the under-
privileged children with a better Christ-
mas,” Pi Phi President Becca Bagdonas
said. “Their parents can’t really buy

needs of the university commons.

While it is uncertain what will be
in the university commons, the possi-
bilities are exciting.

Ideas include a ﬁtness center, a
student postal facility, multipurpose
rooms for activities offices for the
Dean of Students and University se-
curity. The GHQ, the Co-op and the
bookstore will also be relocated. The
multi-level parking garage will be lo-
cated behind the Warner Center. How-
ever, freshman parking will not be
relocated. The University Commons
and other proposed buildings will
most likely be built in the style ofthe
Science Center and Leybum Library.

The Board of Trustees, the Lex-
ington City Planning Committee and
the City Council must approve the
Master Plan. Both the Planning Com-
mittee and the City Council require
separate public hearings in order to
approve the plans for construction of
new buildings. On Nov. 19, President

to

them much, so it’s really wonderful that
they can get something nice from a stu-
dent who cares. We have so much and
it’s only right to give back to the com-
munity.” J

The Pi Phis will be outside the Co-
op all day Monday and Tuesday.

Junior Sigma Nus Patrick
McCormack and Jet? Hayden volunteer
at the Rockbridge Area Relief
Agency (RARA).

John Elrod gave an informal presen-
tation on prominent aspects of the
Master Plan to the Planning Commit-
tee, City Council and city and univer-
sity administrators. The specifics of
the Master Plan are not being released
to the public yet, due to any changes
which may occur before the Board of
Trustees is scheduled to approve it on
Feb. 13. The plan is expected to pass
at all levels, Parsons said.

“We will always find a way to
agree,” Parsons said. “There is always
a risk, a sticking point, but we’ve al-
ways found a way to agree in the
past,” he said.

Other plans include a music and
ﬁne arts center to be built at the end
of the Warner Center, near the Lenfest
Center.

While unsure of what will be placed
in Dupont Hall if the departments are
moved, Parsons said, [The new music and
arts center] will be more pleasant than the
monolithic wall found at that end!”

needy

McCormack and Hayden prepare
packages of food for families to pick
up. Area churches, Harris Teeter and
Evans Dining donate the food and
RARA puts the packages together for
speciﬁc families.

Anyone interested in volunteer pro-
grams can contact Professor Beckley,
who has infonnation about many op-
portunities to help the underprivileged
in Rockbridge County.

BY WILL HARDIE

 

COPY EDITOR

A gang of looters took advantage
of the Thanksgiving break to riﬂe
through vacated Gaines rooms, tell-
ing students they encountered that
they were “looking for John.”

Around 4:40 p.m. on Tuesday,
Nov. 25, a black man wearing a hat
walked into a female student’s Gaines
suite. He said he was looking for his
cousin John. When the student asked
him for John’s telephone number, the
man changed the subject, and asked
several times whether she was stay-
ing there alone, and whether she
would be leaving soon for the break.

“I didn’ttell him exactly when,just
in case,” she said. “I wasn’t scared
because he didn’t seem violent. There
are always people around Gaines who
aren’t students.”

Soon afterwards, a man answering
to the same description walked into
the Gaines suite oflapanese exchange
student Naoko Nakane. He asked her
whether she knew “John,” and
whether this was Lewis Hall.

“I know several Johns but I didn’t
understand what he wanted, so I said,
no,” said Nakane. “I was so scared.”

Before long, the John-seeker
struck again. “This guy opened my
door unbidden and stuck his head
in,” said sophomore Lance. Clack.
“He made up some question tojus-
tify his presence  he asked for

John. He obviously wasn’t a stu-
dent.” Clack called security, then

checked that the other doors on his
corridor were locked.

Security officers Scott “wild
Irishman” Rowe and Tony “Italian
stallion” Prince rushed to Gaines.
Just as they arrived, a suspect
walked out of the building and
straight into their arms. A minute
later another man stepped out, car-
rying a Toshiba laptop computer, a
Nikon camera and a Jurassic Park
video. The officers ordered him to
stop, but he ran away. Prince
chased him across Nelson Street and
up to the Lenfest Center, where the
man dropped his loot and escaped.

The stolen items belonged to
Courtney Yevich. The tape and the
computer screen were smashed, but
no information was lost from the
computer’s hard drive.

“I had heard all the stories about
robberies but I didn’t think it would
happen to me,” she said.

The police arrived and picked up
17-year-old Eugene Jordan. He
named his three accomplices. Police
arranged a photo line-up, from
which Clack picked out his room.
Police arrested Jason Alstock at his
home later that evening.

Gaines has been at the epicenter
of the recent campus crime
expolosion. On Nov. 17, local Brian
Armentrout was spotted peering
through Gaines windows. Security
and police officers chased and
caught him, and found a 9mm au-
tomatic pistol in his car.

 

  

PAGE 2

IICW S

DECEMBER 8, 1997

 Weeks Weather:

Tuesda Wednesday

       

Thursday

       

 

Ice I Snow showers Showers Cloudy Cloudy Pt. Cloudy
High: 36° High: 45° High: 44,, High: 50, High: 46° High: 45, CHAMBER SINGERS PRESENT SERVICE
LOW: 32° LOWI 35° I-ow: 35°. I-ow: 32° LOW: 36° LOW! 32° Washington and Lee’s University’s annual Christmas Candlelight Service will be held
Thursday, Dec. 1 1, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The public is invited to attend.
O0l1IT5Y Of The Nationﬂi Wﬁﬂlﬁ SGIVICE The Service of Nine Lessons and Carols is an ancient form of corporate worship during
the Christmas season. The service, which is broadcast each year from King’s College,
Cambridge, tells the story of sacred history from Creation to the Incarnation. The prayers,
lessons andhymns are used widely both in England and in the United States.
Wanted l!!! Individuals, Student T '1 e Music for the traditional service will be provided by the University Chamber Singers,

Organizations and Small Groups to Promote:
Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS ﬁg

CO-ED RESIDENTIAL SUMMER CAMP
needs male and female cabin conselors,
Adventure Counselors, Instructors
(Swimming, Horse, Canoe, Ropes),
Health Coordinators and Area Directors.
Located Near Greensboro, NC.

For more information call Netta at
(910) 349-9445 or
e-mail mel/iott@amarog.ces.ncsu.edu

AMUSIC INDUSTRY OPPORTUNITY

Breaking Records (Atlantic) is
seeking 1998 College Reps.
Unpaid, great beneﬁts.

by 5 p.m.

Zting-Izmz ﬂit‘
is looking for a new

Business
Manager.

Submit a resume

and cover letter to

the  mailbox

inthe University Center

January 9.

Jr. will preside over the service.

Big Brother/Big Sister program.

GET INTO THE HOLIDAY SPIRIT; ATTEND HOLI-
DAY CONCERT TUESDAY LENF EST CENTER

The annual W&L Holiday Concert will be held on Tues., Dec. 9, at 7 p.m. in the Lenfest
Center. The concert will feature the University Chorus and the University Wind Ensemble.

Under the direction of Barry Kolman, the chorus and wind ensemble will present Terry
Vosbein’s Winter Symphony. The program will also include popular carols and festive

‘ holiday music.
Vosbein is a composer and an assistant professor of music at W&L.
The concert is free and open to the public. But due to the popularity of the concert,

tickets are required for admission. Call the Lenfest Center Box Ofﬁce, 463-8000, for ticket
information.

APPLICATIONS FOR UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, OX-
FORD EXCHANGE PROGRAM NOW AVAILABLE

Rising juniors who are interested in the Washington and Lee University, University
College, Oxford program for the l998-1999 academic year, now is the time to apply!
Contact Carl P. Kaiser from the Williams School of Commerce, room 313, 463-8617. For

more of a personal account, contact this year’s exchange student from Oxford, Will Hardie
at hardiew@wlu.edu.

-Compiled by Kathryn Mayumik

conducted by W&L professor of music Gordon Spice. The Chamber Singers are upper-
classmen chosen by audition after at least one year of experience in the University Chorus.
Professor of music Timothy Gaylard will play the organ for the service. Readers will be
chosen from the university community. Acting University Chaplain Thomas Litzenburg

The service is sponsored by the University Federation, a nondenominational student
group that sponsors religious and community activities including the Rockbridge Country

can Mr. Wilkins (303) 779-3803

 

fa/raay 3- §é///

76 .  a/5!
Zea;/Eytv/9 Z/9%/Er/a

WRANGLER
FLY FISHING GUIDE

***>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<

PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH IS SEEKING
COLLEGE STUDENTS TO WORK FOR THE
SUMMER OF 1998 AS WRANGLERS AT OUR

CORRALS OR AS FLY FISHING GUIDES UPON OUR
SMITH RIVER. MUST HAVE GOOD EXPERIENCE IN
EITHER FIELD AND MUST BE WELL ABOVE
AVERAGE IN PEOPLE SKILLS. SPECIAL
CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO
GRADUATING SENIORS.

PLEASE CONTACT AMY HITLIN OF THE
CAREER DEVELOPIVIENT OFFICE IN
MATTINGLY HOUSE FOR INFORMATION,
INSTRUCTIONS, AN APPLICATION, AND
AN INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT-

PLEASE ALSO WRITE TO ELK CANYON RANCH,
1 1 5 1 SMITH RIVER ROAD, WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS,
MONTANA, 59645 FOR SPECIAL INFORMATION ABOUT
THESE TWO POSITIONS.

16 DAYS ’TIL CHRISTMAS

LEXINHLUN

(gel/[iv .(/I’l)(I:\'/I'l‘I(/ (ii;

COME SEE OUR SELECTION OF on-‘r BOXES AND BASKETS
WEEKDAYS 7:30 - 5:30 - SATURDAY 3:00 - 5:00 - SUNDAY 9:00 - 4:00
9 w. WASHINGTON sr. - 464-6586

DECEMBER 8, 1997

  

 

PAGE 5

What students pay for rent

sion to live at 306 McLaughlin Street next year.

Country houses cost a bit more, but students
find that the perks of country life justify the extra
cost.

“This is our one opportunity to live in the coun-
try,” said Chris Forrest, senior.

His house is surrounded by 100 acres of land
and features two—story ceilings and a fireplace.

The minimum and maximum rent prices found by
the survey show that students can rent a country
house for between $175 per month and $312.50 per
month. The average monthly rate is $245.

Jonathan Gorab, senior, cites “the house itself”
as the primary factor in choosing to live at Low Dell,

and on-campus housing looks pretty good.

Archer and her roommates will live off—campus for
the ﬁrst time next year — their senior years. They chose
to stay in Woods Creek Apartments this year to avoid
the need to buy furniture and the expense of summer
rent. She was “thrilled” to learn that the rent for her
apartment next years is lower-than-average.

The graph below illustrates the distribution of
off—campus student rent prices in town and in the
country. The frequency of sample values in each
price interval is shown.

—— Gary Justice,’00, and Kirk Garrett,’00, contributed
to this article.

Ho1.1./sn;R Hoi'15Y/PHo7o EDITOR

CD As the new year approaches, the
scramble for off—campus housing heats
up. The Phi gives you the skinny on
average student rent prices.

BY LIZ DEHER
W&lii~'E Eorron

In the whirl of parties and panic that concludes the
fall term at Washington and Lee, sophomores and jun-
iors have yet another stress on their minds — choosing
their abodes for the next school year.

The decision to stay on campus or to venture into
the grown-up world of landlords, monthly rent checks
and utility bills involves a variety of factors. Of utmost
importance are rent prices and location.

To help students see how their prospective rent
stacks up against the competition, The Phi acquired
the results of a Management 201 statistics project that
estimated the average rents of off—campus housing.

Lee museum

will lose its most
valued treasure

(D After over two decades of caring for Robert E.
Lee’s artifacts, Capt. Robert Peniston will retire at the

end of this academic year.

BY ERICA PROESER
. STAFF \X/Rriiaz

THE BORDELLO in the Red Light District is just one of many oﬂicampus, in-town rentals available to students.

and Westmoreland was being dogged
by people who made mischief.

A random sample of W&L juniors and seniors
living off—campus asked students their monthly rent
excluding utilities and whether they would charac-
terize their residences as “town” or “country.” The
results revealed that the average student rent is
$226.68 per month.

The survey found that the average town dweller
pays less than the overall mean rent, at $217 .76 per
month. Country houses generally have more amenities,
driving up the cost of rent. The cheapest apartment in
the town sample costs $100 per month; the most luxuri-
ous goes for $350 per month.

This is good news to Robert Sein, a senior who has
lived above the bakery at 8 North Main Street for the
past two years.

“Looks like I’m getting a deal,” said Sein, who pays
less than the mean rent for his apartment.

Many students also choose to live in town be-
cause of its proximity to campus. Kendra Archer,
junior, mentioned the need to be within walking dis-
tance of the Hill as a motivating factor in her deci-

 

When the new Lee Chapel mu-
seum is finished, it will have a new care-
taker to go with it.

Capt. Robert Peniston will retire
in June 1998, after over 20 years in the
job. “it’s in the best interests of the
University,” he said. He said that he
won’t be around much longer, and the
new museum would beneﬁt from a new
caretaker. The decision to leave the
job behind was entirely his.

Peniston spent 30
years on active duty in

“After he gave the lecture, he
opened the ﬂoor to questions. A ca-
det raised his hand, but he let the [mis-
chief makers] have the first question,”
Peniston recalled. “They asked, ‘What
about homosexuals in the military?’
And he answered, ‘I don’t know any-
thing about that.”’

The general’s answer roused a
big roar of an ovation. The people
who asked the question left quickly
after that response, and
Peniston called the ova-

the Navy (and three
years before that at the
Naval Academy) before ,
retiring and taking the

W&L job. He has be— 

tion “the loudest I have

  ever heard.”

One of the most
moving events that
Peniston remembers was

come a popular person-
ality on campus over the
years. Professor Gordon
Spice of the music department made a
Parents’ Weekend concert tribute to
Peniston on Oct. 31. The concert took
place at Lee Chapel, and Peniston said
that he felt humbled and honored by
the performance.

Peniston had a few stories to tell
about things he has seen over the
years in Lee Chapel. He remembers one
occasion in January 1980 when Gen-
eral Westmoreland spoke at the chapel,

 

LEE CHAPEL. .

the dedication on May 9,
1986 of the plaque hon-
oring the Medal of
Honor winner from W&L.

It was an impressive ceremony,
Peniston said. The winner’s com-
manding oﬁicer came to speak, and the
chapel was full of moist eyes.

Now, the retired ofﬁcer is leaving
the chapel to someone else’s care. He
said that the museum, the reason for
his retirement, will be state of the art.

people say, ‘Why

a country house with a pool
and lots of land. Rent was

also a consideration for him-
self and his four roommates.

Gorab and his roommates

drive to campus each day. All
five of them have cars, obvi-
ating the need to live within
walking distance of school. '
L “We had to negotiate
with the landlord for the
price,” said Gorab, whose rent
is close to the mean.

Some students opt to
spend theirjunior and senior
years in University housing.
Gaines Hall, Woods Creek
Apartments, the Old Delt
House, the International
House, the Chavis House and
the Outing Clubhouse are at-
tractive options for students
who like Dean Manning as a
landlord.

On-campus housing
ranged in price from $1, 760 to
$2, 660 per year, according to
the 1996-1997 University Cata-
logue. This works out to from
$195.55 per month to $295.55
per month. Factor in the extra
costs of summer rent and utili-
ties for an off-campus address,

-.00-I11

16

14

12

10

Rent Prices: Town v. Country

100-150 151-200 201-250

Pn'ca intervals
1: Town

251-300 301-350

I country

PENISTON will retire at the end of this academic year He has been the Lee
Chapel caretaker for over two decades. Ho1_L1s'rER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

one for its time.”

He said that the museum, which
will cost about $1 .5-2 million, should
be completed by May 1998.

Peniston
will not be

“A lot of
C6

are you changing
[the chapel]?’” he
said. The answer
is that the chapel
will finally be up to
modern museum
standards. The ex-
hibits will not
change much, but
the displays,

 [Peniston] is as much a
part of the school as
General Washington and
General Lee...

—— Dr. J Davis F utch

leaving the
area when he
leaves his job,
though. His
family has had
ties to Lexing-
ton for years.
His son at-
tended W&L,

cases, lighting, cli-

mate control and security systems will

all be top-of-the-line. The construction

also includes the installation of a handi-

capped access ramp from the Corral.
“The old museum was built in 1962

or ’63,” he said. “It was A-number

7 but he died

shortly before
graduating. Peniston’s daughter mar-
ried a W&L graduate, and Peniston
and his wife have been comfortable
in the area since his retirement from
the military. Besides, many members
of the W&L community, like Dr. J.

Davis Futch of the history depart-
ment, see him as an important part of
the W&L community.

“Dr. Futch was my son’s favorite
professor,” Peniston said. “The ﬁrst
letter we received after my son’s death
was from Dr. Futch. We’ve become
good friends.” Peniston stops by
Futch’s office several afternoons a
week to chat with him.

Peniston’s replacement may be a
scholar and an expert in the museum’s
artifacts, but he or she will never be
Peniston. The retired Navy captain
contributed much to the personality
ofW&L, and he will be sorely missed
on the Hill.

Futch has wami feelings for the
caretaker: “For me, [Peniston] is as
much a part ofthe school as General
Washington and General Lee, and I
think he should have a statue on cam-
pus right beside Cyrus McCormick’s.”

 W

Lexington offers
unique gift ideas

BY GINGERPHIILIPS

Srm Wanna

]:[t’s stressful. lt’s confusing. No, it’s not ﬁnal exams. It’s Christmas
shopping. You’re probably wondering what in the world to buy for your
parents and friends. The answer to all your problems is right here in
town. Lexington may not be a booming metropolis, but it does offer a wide
variety of unique shops where you’re sure to ﬁnd great Christmas presents
for everyone on your list.

The best shops for mom are The Victorian Parlour and Virginia Born
and Bred. The Victorian Parlour, 13 S. Main St., is the place to shop for
the mom who likes elegant and decorative items for her house. There
you can ﬁnd beautiful porcelain and crystal items such as cups, plates,
and jars. Lace, jewelry, fragrances and other toiletry items can be pur-
chased at the Parlour.

Virginia Born and Bred, 16 W. Washington St., sells many attractive
objects with local themes such as Lexington boxes, tobaccojars, and pottery,
and W&L glasses and ornaments. Many of these items can be engraved
with a message or the W&L Trident.

Owner Julie Lindsey says, “Food
baskets and cookbooks are extremely .
popular gifts. You can buy a premade
basket or you can design your own.” Bas-
kets can be ﬁlled with anything from cof-
fee and cookies to jams and Virginia
wines.

Since those food baskets can also
be great gifts for dad, another shop to
visit is The Shenandoah Attic, 23 S. Main
St. The Attic also offers some great gour-
met food items and wines. You can buy
coffee mugs, wind chimes, lamps and
wooden objects. Another store for dad is
Alvin-Dennis, at 102 W. Washington St.,
where you can buy neat ties and other
men’s clothing.

For friends or siblings, Sunday’s
Child, 16 N. Main St, has tons of cute and
unusual gifts, such as stationary, calendars, ﬁgurines, books and jewelry.
This is deﬁnitely the place to go for kids’ presents, like stuffed animals and
those little virtual reality pets. Crossroads and Night Owl Music are also
great places to buy CD5 and tapes for your friends.

Artists in Cahoots, 1 W. Washington St., is a truly unique store with»
gifts to ﬁt almost anyone’s taste. All of the items sold in this shop are created
by local artisans. You can buy beautiful paintings, etchings and photographs
of Lee Chapel, the Colonnade and Lexington. Owner and artist Maureen
Worth says, “it’s a great place for students to ﬁnd gifts for their parents, and
the parents usually want to come in themselves on Parents’ Weekend.” You
can also ﬁnd sculptures, jewelry and glass objects like vases, ornaments,
paperweights and bottles.

So you don’t have to go very far to ﬁnd great Christmas presents that
everyone will love. Turn your stress over ﬁnals into a little fun with a shop-
ping excursion to downtown Lexington. If you still don’t have the time,just
visit the University Bookstore, where you can find a huge selection of books,
cards and W&L gift items. The Bookstore’s Christmas sale is on Wednes-
day, Dec. 10, so don’t miss it. Happy shopping!

 

ROBERT E. LEE
NUTCRACKERS make unique
Christmas gifts from Lexington.
1'/()[.LIS77:‘R H()l’l5Y/PHOYO EDITOR

 

PAGE 4

REsuL'rs

Men’sBa_sketball (3-3)
Wed.: W&L 44
Hampden Sydney 42

Lopata Classic at Washington
University, St Louis, Missouri
Fri.: W&L 56
Washington U. 81
Sat.: W&L 55
- Occidental 46
Women’s Basketball (3-1)
Thurs.: W&L 62
RMWC 51
Men’s Swimming (1-3)
Sat.: W&L 89
VMI 110

'Women’s Swimming (3-2)-

Tues.: W&L 91
RMWC 29
W&L 85
Sweet Briar 36

AHEAD

Men’s Basketball
Tues.: home VS. Emory
& Hemy at 7:30pm

Women’s Basketball
Mon.: at Bridgewater

Women’s Swimming
Wed.: home vs.
Marymount at 6pm

Men’s Swimming
Wed.: home vs.
Marymount at 6pm

sports

Men’s basketball captures

third place at Lopata Classic

tournament in St. Louis

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
j"""'_-"'_'j-‘ STAFF \X/RITE!

the men’s basketball team as the

Generals went 2-1 last week. On
Wednesday night the Generals pulled
off a monstrous victory as they
downed Hampden-Sydney 44-42 and
snapped a 15-game losing streak
against the Tigers. The Generals then
traveled to St. Louis to play in the
Lopata Classic where they got a rude
awakening against a strong Washing-
ton University team. They lost 81-56
after falling behind 27-2 in the ﬁrst
half. But the roll coaster ride contin-
ued as the Generals went out the next
night and downed Occidental College
of California 55-46 in the consolation
game of the Lopota Classic. The Gen-
erals ﬁnished the week at 3-3 overall
and 1-1 in the ODAC.

The Generals pulled off a huge
upset Wednesday night as they
downed Hampden-Sydney College
44-42. In what was most likely the
biggest win for the program under
third year coach Kevin Moore, the
Generals used a Princeton-like strat-
egy of ball control and back-door
passes to pull off the improbable
conquest.

Senior forward Kelly Dyer led
the way for the Generals as he
scored 21 points and hit four three-
pointers. Dyer tied the game on a
free throw with 45 seconds to go
and the Generals took the lead for
good after Scott Hudson hit a free
throw with 12 seconds left. Trail-
ing 43-42, Hampden-Sydney had
one last shot but came up short on a
jumper in the lane and the Generals
added a free-throw to make the fi-
nal score 44-42.

Hampden-Sydney came into the
game with a 3-0 record and had av-
eraged 98.7 points per game, but
"W&L held the Tigers to only 13
points in the first half en route to
the victory. This triumph snapped a

It was an up-and-down week for

 Jock Shorts

- 5 Generals named to GTE Academic football team -
7 Generals named to All-ODAC football team -
Women’s swimming marks two victories - Women’s
basketball claim victory -

For the eighth consecutive year, the
Generals had the most selections to the
GTE Academic All-District III foot-
ball team. The selections were senior
defensive linemen Jack Boyd and

Omar Moneiin, senior offensive line- 

man Stefan Neumeister, sophomore
offensive lineman John Sensing, and
sophomore wide receiver .l.T.
Malatesta. These five honorees have
the possibility of being named to the
All-American GTE Acedemic foot-
ball team to be named in the upcom-
ing weeks.
Seven members of the Generals
1997 football team have been named
to ODAC All-Conference team. Play-
ers named to the First Team All-
ODAC were junior offensive lineman
Marc Granger, sophomore kicker
Matt Holbrook, and senior defensive
end Jack Boyd. The four Generals
named to the Second Team All-
ODAC were junior tight-end David
Ritchey, senior defensive tackle Omar
Moneirn, senior linebacker Matt Luka,
and senior safety Ryan Fletemeyer.
The Generals extended their ODAC
dual meet winning streak to 30 consecu-
tive meets, by defeating Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College 91-29 and
Sweet Bria: 85-36 in a double dual meet
on Tuesday evening in the Cy
Twombly Pool. Senior co-captain Bligh
Wollner and junior Margaret Hoehl
were each triple winners for W&L.
Wollner won the 100 yard free
(1 :00.28), the 200 yard tree (2:09.52)
and the 500 yard free (5252.75); Hoehl
won the 200 yard butterfly (2:22.59),
the 200 yard backstroke (2:22.63) and
the 200 yard individual medley
(2223.16). Lauren McKeever also swam
well for the Generals, as she won the
100 yard breaststroke (1 : 15.2 1) and the
200 yard breaststroke (2250.44). The

Generals will host Maiymount next
Wednesday at 6:00p.m., and then will
be off until winter term.

The women’s basketball team im-
proved its record to 3-1, 1-1 ODAC
with a 62-Slconference victory’ over
Randolph Macon Women’s College on
Thursday in the Warner Center. They
were led by senior forward Tonia Dean,
who recorded her third double-double
of the season by scoring 13
points and grabbing 13 re-
bounds. She now has 552 re-
bounds over her career, which
breaks the previous career re-
bounding mark of 545 set by
Sandra Holmes, who played
from 1993 to1996.

In addition to Dean, three
other W&L starters recorded
double-digit points. Junior 
Chrissy Burghardt led all the '
Generals with 16 points, fresh-
man Missy Weathersby had 13
points, 6 rebounds, and a team-
high 7 assists, and junior Am-
ber Hinkle had 10 points. De-
spite their complete destruction,
Jennifer Baptist led RMWC
with 19 pointsand nine re-
bounds.

The game was close until the
nine-minute mark of the first
half, at which the Generals went
on a 19-6 run to break a 12-12
tie and finish the half. They
extended their 3 1-18 lead to 15
early in the second period, but
RMWC scored 12 straight un-
answered points to cut the lead
to only three points. W&L
weathered the stonn, however,
and ultimately claimed a nine
point victory.

— courtesy of staﬂ reports
and Sports Information Oﬂice

   c o

15 game losing streak against
Hampden-Sydney that dated back to
1990. The win moved the General’s
record to 1-1 in the ODAC and 2-2
overall, already matching last year’s
record.

The Generals traveled to St.
Louis following the big victory and
were in action on Friday night
against host Washington University
in the 14th Annual Lopata Classic.
Things did not go nearly as well for
the Generals on this night as Wash-
ington Uninversity jumped out to a
27-2 first half lead as the Generals
went scoreless for over 14 minutes.
The Generals were never able to
recover from the deficit and went
on to lose the game 81-56.

Kelly Dyer scored a bucket for
the Generals with 17:17 remaining
in the first half and the Generals did
not score again until freshman Eric
Owsley hit a pair of free throws with
3:26 remaining in the half.

After trailing 37-14 at the halfthe
Generals did make the score respect-
able as they played well in the second
half. Shooting guard Eric Owsley was
the leading scorer for the Generals as
he scored 17 points. Kelly Dyer and
Scott Hudson each added 8 for the
Generals. The loss dropped the Gen-
erals to 2-3 overall.

The Generals rebounded well from
the tough loss and downed Occidental
College of California 55-46 in the con-
solation game on Saturday night. The
Generals led Occidental 25-18 at the
half and led by as many as 12 in the
second half before Occidental stormed
back behind the hot shooting of Eli
Engle and tied the game at 38. How-
ever, the Generals took the lead for
good on the next possession and went
on to defeat Occidental 55-46 and even
their record at 3-3.

Kelly Dyer led the Generals with
17 points, 10 of them in the final eight
minutes of the game. -T he Generals
out-rebounded the Tigers 43-25.
Dyer and sophomore center Scott
Hudson each grabbed 9 rebounds.
The Generals sealed the deal by go-
ing 5-7 from the charity stripe in the
ﬁnal minute ofthe game.

The Generals played all three
games without the services of sopho-

more Rich Peterson, last year’s
ODAC freshman of the year, who is

out with a broken finger. They hope
to have him back for the ﬁrst game
after the break.

The Generals will play their final
game before the break in the home-
opener against Emory & Henry Col-
lege on Tuesday at 7:30pm in the
Warner Center.

DECEMBER 8, 1997

THE
GRAND
FINALE...

In his ﬁnal race as
a Washington and Lee
General, senior cross
country captain and
ODAC Runner of the
Year Jason Callen
placed 137th in the
NCAA Division [11
Championship as the
sole member of this
year's team who quali-
fied. C01/R’l‘1:‘SY or
SPORTS IN]-‘ORMA no/v
01-‘I-‘I(‘Ii

Winter lntramurals are starting.
Publicize your results with the Phi.

e-mail: phi@wlu.edu
Everyone deserves to read
about your success.

ROLLA

THERE ARE A FEW sPECIAL THINGS THAT wE CAN

REALLY COUNT ON TO IIELPUsACCOMPLIsII ALLTHAT _
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE
THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER TIIE PAsT so YEARS.
COROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
CARS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT'S ALL-NEw...wITiI
MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
' ALUMINUM ENCINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILEs PER
GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA 18 SAFER AND
OUIETER, AND BEST OFALL, IT STARTS
ATA PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
YEAR. MORE CAR...LEss
__ MONEY. WHAT A
”, REFRESHING
C H A N G E !

 

I

8

'riion
* rial

PAGEM5 J mo. 8, 1997

That dysfunctional
Jefferson server

Like so many of the students, faculty and
administration at W&L, the Ring-tum Phi relies
heavily on the Jefferson server to complete its
work every week.

At about 10:25 p.m. Sunday night, 25 min-
utes after the HelpDesk closed, Jefferson
decided to shut itself down again, extending its
stellar crash record for the past two weeks.

Another crash happened at almost the exact
same time one week ago.

The faculty at -this school take the “com-
puter” excuse for late work about as well as the
“my dog ate my homewor ”~ excuse. University
Computing employees routinely tell students
simply to use that story with professors.

What may be at the root of the problem are
the upgrades made to the server over the
Thanksgiving holiday. Was there really a
pressing need to change the server one week
before law school exams and two weeks before
undergraduate exams? Any time major changes
are made to a computer system, some instability
can be expected, so why risk that before such a
critical portion of the term?

University Computing should consider a
major overhaul of the Jefferson server over the
Christmas holiday. There are two weeks in
which to solve these problems, and if there are
still problems after the vacation, the ﬁrst few
weeks of a term are not critical working
weeks. Most students are not frantically
trying to ﬁnish 20-page papers during the first
week of school.

Among all of the lost papers and projects,
there are some lessons to be learned. If you are
using a public computer system, keep a copy of
your paper or project on disk, especially since
the Jefferson server is becoming more of a
liability than a resource.

If University Computing really wants to
make the campus more online, they need to
make sure that the equipment is working
correctly. They also need to be a little more in-
touch with the true need of the W&L commu-
nity: computers on which to ﬁnish their work
that are reliable.

,»5"(‘(HN'~'§‘.

“  A uote of the week:

at N

S}.

<«..,,.,«. .

I love shoes. They’re the only thing
that can’t make me look fat.

—Anonymous freshman girl

77

Ellie ‘tiling-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coom bs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
w& life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
‘ Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Business Manager Rebecca C uny
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown
Asst. Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit sybmissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “My Views”
do not reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions ofthe
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

GENERATION Lax

UH/if SORDRNY RUSH IS...

,uHnr IT siioutv 9:...

Letters to The Rizng-tum Phi

EC Secretary responds to writer
in The Southern Collegian

In thearticle entitled “Notes from the EC Under-
ground” that Mr. Alex Christensen generously-com-
piled for me in the latest Southern Collegian, I dis-
covered that I am much more clever than I origi-
nally thought. According to Mr. Christensen’s
evaluation ofthe EC’s minutes this year, I have been
“ﬁnding a way to comment a little wryly on the go-
ings on (at the EC) without being too obvious.” The
truth is, however, I fall short of deserving Mr.

(C

I consider the position to i
which I have been entrusted a
delicate duty to be carried out

carefully and humbly.

77

Christensen’s compliments regarding my wit and
sardonic sense of humor.

The Southern Collegian claims that the article
is “by Taylor Schultz,” and “compiled by Alex
Christensen.” The Southern Collegian broadly, if
not incorrectly, employs the word “compiled.” The
EC minutes Mr. Christensen cites comprise less than
a third of the article, so I can scarcely claim or be
attributed authorship. Of course, I am certainly not
above parody. Indeed, I am ﬂattered that the South-
ern Collegian made me the subject thereof. But I
am disappointed to be associated with parody poorly
done. Mr. Christensen’s article is misleading and
irresponsible. He wrongly speculates that in an ef-
fort at self-expression I attempt to animate with sar-
casm what would otherwise be “dry” EC minutes.
Implicit in this is that I ridicule certain campus or-
ganizations and belittle certain EC business.

As evidence of my artistic license, Mr.
Christensen cites in his article excerpts from EC
minutes that I have composed this year concerning
Contact Committee plans, Fridays! Committee fund-
ing, and alcohol issues at W&L. I intended neither
the language nor the juxtaposition of these items to
be read humorously or sarcastically. Mr.
Christensen’s suggestion that I treat these matters
with disregard is misguided. I consider the posi-
tion to which I have been entrusted a delicate duty
to be carried out carefully and humbly. I can assure
Mr. Christensen that whatever humor I might har-
bor did not seek expression in these matters. .

On the other hand, I believe that blatantly trivial
matters, such as the plans for an EC social that Mr.

I Christensen also cites in his article, lend themselves

to comedic treatment. Thus, on the occasion that
such innocuous matters arise in a meeting, I treat
them accordingly in the minutes.

The EC, in addition to adjudicating the Honor
System, takes seriously its prescribed tasks includ-
ing the allocation of student funds and oversight of
student committee activities. For anyone truly in-
terested in the conduct of EC meetings, note that
we meet with open doors each Monday night at 7:30.
Yet open doors or not, I should warn that EC meet-
ings are much less lively and audacious than Mr.

 ‘ii.’
an -.~*~~... J- *1, 3
: l" (.---*i' ‘A M i-

:

Christensen portrays, and much more tedious and se-
rious-minded than he can know. '

Cordially,
Z. Taylor Shultz
EC Secretary

The Gadfly defends his purpose

I am writing this letter in response to an article that
appeared in the most recent edition of the Southern Col-
legian. In it there appeared an article which told of a
mysterious pamphlet released to various members of the
faculty written under the pseudonym “The Gadﬂy.” While
I recognize that the purpose of the Southern Collegian is
to “piss off W&L,” it is unfortunate that my article was
initially explained in this forum. The issues discussed
are of a serious nature and consequently are in need of
serious people to discuss them — not “Scruffy the Wea-
sel.” Consequently, I feel the need to explain myself.

First things first. W&L being what it is, I feel as though
I must dispel the author’s opinion of my identity as a
disgruntled independent male who can’t drink or garner
female attention. I am not an independent. The staff at
The Palms knows me by name. I have no shortage of
amorous affection. I repeat my belief that many of you
would be surprised by my identity...

My article was aimed at the faculty in the belief that
many of them were unaware of some of the activities tak-
ing place within the Washington & Lee University com-
munity. Acts that were once shameful in the Washington
& Lee community have become commonplace while the
administration and faculty turns a deaf ear. Because it is
the faculty that students look up to and regard with a
deep sense of esteem and veneration, it is the responsibil-
ity of the faculty to assume a position of moral leader-
ship. In short, to re-instill shame and redefine honor!
The central argument of my article was this: “that Wash-
ington & Lee has reached a defining moment in its his-
tory.” The principles that animate our actions, the vir-
tues that we intimately cherish, and the honor we once
observed are in question. Welno longer feel inspired by
the magnanimity of true honor, no longer possess the
desire to be one with something greater than ourselves.
We no longer reﬂect on the state of our souls or the de-
gree to which the ideal of honor should inﬂuence our
everyday actions. If we continue on our present path, Rob-
ert E. Lee’s moral project, meant to inspire and invigo-
rate our souls, will ultimately end in shameful failure.”

My article went on to explain the wide gulf that exists
in different areas of student life between our honorable
ideals and the state of Washington & Lee. My hope was
that the article would be contained to faculty members
because I was aware that my article could be made the
object of jest and failed attempts at journalistic humor.

I have employed anonymity because I wanted my
claims to be engaged on their own terms, not as the “preju-
diced” opinions of “XXXXXX.”. It is easy to discredit
ideas by attaching labels and attacking the author rather
than his/lier ideas. The editors of the Southern Colle-
gian seem to believe that anonymity is simply a mark of
cowardice, devoid of any purpose. However, what is lost
on them is that ideas are what matter. If used correctly,
they can be agents of action so as to return us to the ani-
mating principles that make Washington & Lee a truly
wonderful place. Indeed, many of the writers who fueled
our convictions of freedom and equality did so under the
protective guise of anonymity —— not because of cowardice,

“I went to the seediest bar in
Charlottesville to see four white
guys and a drunk, blind black man
without many teeth sing,”

those.”
— Hollister Hovey ’00
Phi Photo Editor

“You know those hats that you
put the beer on, and you suck the
drink through a huge straw? I
drank a margarita out of one of

— Kathryn Mayumik ’98

 
     

P to celebrate 
_ ,méxtey,;andi’,f6,
’ .2: ,t;t&3’§1tiC§ac,cs.lti=.ict:iii "
aiislduriag tltiﬁ see»-
me will write ‘pack. 5

V 9

6,4?

5
3

u
t
at
4
_u
'1
5
3
y.
4
5
s
4
l‘
I
4
5

-I

     
   
   
  
  
  
      
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
  

control pills lietore. In- ,
. ,’” ‘sureyosz’li.‘fod%nter~ ~
% e orormt Girl.’s<Gu;"dei tat: Azioa-exlaz and .

     

 

tihel?hish album you want; liot9{’e‘»1é:r,’ 
ézittreqilést ft/)1’/Pitch hen, lteli hen, a ;i
3it‘for,tlte'ol’ peace pipe. in-;‘l~. heir." It
I youeknow-what in Armrica 
eye to Amsterdam and then f.

,tio’:t,of your qiialiﬁeations 
undecided to pursue other ean~ 
” veatinot ﬁll every Christ» 
all otlr,positi<3as are st2x.i*t‘ed 
wisliyottitlxe best of loci: in all 
d  you for }’{':v‘v.i‘.  '

 

Santa Claus’ Sccretaify 1;

«onctjbecause you’ve been at

Iastivinte:-i°when youéiazedg
e1é3.:in..;§:oz:ci‘ete miss been {A

1rner,s‘.7. Yeah,  reacts:

ogaéinegftoe.

'..Si!i*=¢re1y,

7. .Santa .Claus

t1 /Students Union,
" tnyliaissioii to  .=»:l1:'
veiiiment \vell’ai‘e 5
A ioévery house in tiir: world
” eat program is that effi-

  

but because they understood that ideas :.in: ll:.c ‘.-Y ’\
personal power that can compel l‘CllL‘C’s.l()l‘. zmd  ..lE_lt‘.

I have enclosed with this letter a cop) :7-ll my article
should the newspaper find it newsworthy to p1'ln‘.. l lizu 2
no doubt that if it were to be printetl. it martial ~:\ okc the
passions ofthe Washington & Lee comm unity. Witli this
in mind, I invite every one of you to ask :.in}.’ one oftlic
deans for a copy.

Do not ask yourself who I am! Ask )(>l‘2'.\L‘i1iiilvllzll I
am saying is true! If what I say is wrong. tlicn the Illin-
of truth is on your side and all that is iicctled in‘) smit inc
away is to understand on a personal leyel i10\\.' 2;m;l xx li_\ l
have been incorrect in my assessment of iiormr at 'W&l..
My intent is not to instigate an editorial war or propagzitc
another campus debate in the spirit of /\le.x: C lnisieiiser:
and Glenn Miller.‘ lfthe W&L toinniuniiy <‘£ll‘.liU{ 1.23».
seriously my claims because ofaiionx inn}. l ‘»\!illli1IVl‘;li-'
reveal myself at the time.

llll Li/‘\l.?l‘l.V.'l

 ’ What did you do over Christmas Weekend?

 

as

up

Phi News Editor

“I watched my house get
trashed and then decided with my
roommates that sleep was more
important than cleaning the place

 

"kio1in\ lz'.iir~;.,i‘. ';..-..l ' .
on the next t«.l1;imi oft.‘-,\ i'i;:i‘ior
niaiiifestn."

"rim;-‘«'.*.1i

( i.i*~\ 1

— Jason Zacher ’98
Phi Executive Editor

 

 

PAGE 6

I aliilol Humor, ®pini0n,li,eviews

Laundromat bandits:

Who’s been deflowering my detergent?

By Will Hardie

Copy Editor

Every week as I heave my sack of socks into the Woods
Creek West laundry, 1 notice something amiss. I ﬁnd I
possess just a little less Harris Teeter President’s Choice
Extra White Ultra Laundry Detergent than I left last week.
The lid of my box has been left open a crack. The little
plastic scoop hasn‘t been put back quite the right way.

My little white box is sitting slightly askew on top of
its Pepsi machine. It guiltily refuses to make eye con-
tact; assaulted, violated, raped. Deep in the concrete
bowels of Woods Creek West, I know that the villain
has struck again. D

Someone’s been pillaging my powder.

I can picture just what’s going on in the mind of this
ﬁend. J ealously he zooms in on my sweet little receptacle,
as she reclines innocently in the dust and lint. Perhaps a
small trail of dribble escapes the twitching comer of
his mouth.

But the predator checks himself. He knows he can’t
just wander over and ravish her. What if he is seen? The
dishonor of being sprung swiping just a couple of scoops
of Harris Teeter President’ s Choice Extra White Ultra Laun-
dry Detergent would be unbearable. But he’s fairly sure
he can get away with it if he’s fast enough. He’s only in

Alex knows ‘what you did last summer’

‘ trouble if I actually catch him in the act.

So he develops the art of the speedy detergent heist.
He strolls nonchalantly into the laundry. He cases the
joint while casually slinging his ﬁlthy briefs into washer
number three. All clear. Faster than lightning he strikes.
He leaps over to the Pepsi machine and seizes the unwit-
ting container.

Rapaciously he rends open my carton, ﬂicks a couple
of scoops of the precious white stuff into machine num-
ber ‘three, then frantically tosses the carcass back into
place. Safe.

Maybe he sniggers, Beavis-like, to himself as he melts
into the night. He’ll live to pillage another wash.

Adrenaline courses through this twisted mind. The
thrill is addictive. So he doesn’t splash out $3.49 for his
own little box of Harris Teeter President’s Choice Extra
White Ultra Laundry Detergent. He would rather take mine
and get away with it, he would rather screw my girl than
get his own. Is this a personal thing? Is he pursuing some
vendetta against me by raping my Harris Teeter grains?
Or is he just a chronic sociopath who lacks the funda-
mental respect for another man’s laundry accessories?
One of these days I will catch him cock-in-hand, unmask
The Lone Laundry Raider, and put my mind at rest. Watch

last   Word

your back, Raider, I’m comin’at ya.

By Alex Christensen
N P/21' Movie Critic

Horror is in transition. It used to be
enough to have a crazy/monster/ ghost-
type creature and a lot of nubile scream-
ing babes. Everybody by now knows
the cliches of the slasher ﬁlm, if not from

- actually having seen them, at least from

having seen “Scream,” where the
“rules” of the horror game are ruthlessly
subverted and parodied in the name of
good fun, and even better scares.

As the world of comedy has learned,
however, there is only so much mileage

to be had from self-referential irony.

Letterman was hilarious when he was
making fun ofhirnselfas apotential mem-
ber of the comedy establishment; now
that he’s there, the establishment itself,
his non-comedy comedy does not play
nearly as well as it used to. Conan
O’Brien works in the world of the sur-
real and ridiculous with great success
— when all else fails to get laughs, the
theory goes, be funny.

So we ﬁnd ourselves in the Letterman
phase of horror ﬁlms. They’re going to

But that’s going to get old fairly quickly.
Then what? Back to pure scares, hope-
ﬁilly avoiding the cliches so thoroughly
dissected by self-aware gore-fests like
“Scream.”

Kevin Williamson, the smart, funny
screenwriter who started this revolution
with his script
“Scary Movie,”
which became

 

ten and “I Know What You Did 2” will
be up next year.

“I Know What You Did” straddles
two worlds of the self-awareness of
“Scream” and the older (and newer)
“pure scare” movies like “Halloween”
and “Nightmare on Elm Street.” It’s not

’ The pitch:

“swam,” (on? “lt’|| be like
might argue it ‘ ’
started, with Halloween
“Child’s Play,”

“Gemilins 2; The meets

New Batch,” or

“Wes Craven’s ‘SC|"eam.’”

New Nightmare”)
seems likely to be

» able to ride the wave of irony and come

out on the other side, with his real abil-
ity to write scary. He may have the privi-
lege of being his own Conan O’Brien.
“I Know What You Did Last Sum-
mer” is the second of Williamson’s
scripts (and hardly the last) to be pro-
duced. “Scream 2” hits theaters this

 

completely outside itself. It wants to be
a straight thriller/slasher ﬁlm, but it des-
perately wants to leaven the proceed-
ing by maybejust a wink here or there.
But these attempts are rather pointless,
even grotesque, like a bad pick-up line.

Aside from this post- “Scream” un-
certainly in places, “I Know What You

be good for a while as self-exploitations.

Colonnade Club

Christmas, “Scream 3” is already writ-

Did” is scary. It’s the story of four teen-

 

DECEMBER 8, 1997

Find elightenment on e-mail

By Tom Monaco

Staff Writer,
I would like to begin within the bounds of reality for a few
moments to give you a few words of advice that I have picked
up along the way and hopefully to spark your interest in the
work of a brilliant man. I realize that for the three or four of

them: The Eleven Statements Toward Personal Enlight-
enment.
1.) Driving under a tangle of overpass.
‘ 2.) Pulling gears to hear switches click; feeling a gust
of nerves.
3.) In the mind of my mind, a hand saunters motives

you (if that many) to coils.
who have consis- ‘ C 4.) The Hand of Randomness.
tently read and 5.) The Hand of Unspeakable
enjoyedmy earlier Be forewarned that these are not ‘hints’ Language-
°°‘“"‘_“S"h‘5_w“1 in the true sense of the word, in fact, I like 6') The Hand °f U“5°°“ 5°‘
be a bit of a d1sap— quence.
poimmem, and 1 to call them: The Eleven Statements 7.) the Hand of1_heUnknown_ .
apologize in ad- Toward Personal Enlightenment. 3-) U“d‘“-“he Pi“°Wa the G11“
Vance for this. 9 ’ breathes.

During my 9.) Texas vs. France?
relatively few Who wins?
years as a universally-oriented scholar of intricacies, I 10-) The spiny Creatures Ofthe deep.

have come across some very interesting facts, people,
and ideas (some of which have been alluded to in my
earlier columns). I must admit, though, that none of these
persons have been more fascinating than the poet/musi-
cian/philosopher J .C. Fitzsimmons. Since both J .C.’s and
my intellectual flags are hung on the same ﬂagpole, we
have developed a mutually engrossing line of correspon-
dence via electronic mail services. In one of the electronic
correspondences, J .C. left me with “a few hints” that I feel
would be worthwhile to share with Washington and Lee
University. Be forewarned that these are not actually
“hints” in the true sense of the word, in fact, I like to call

1 1.) Sin will find you out.

Bonus: Shoveling coal into the open grate.

A quick suggestion before I end: after reading these
hints, make photocopies and send them to your family,
friends, and other assorted loved ones. I would tell you to
put them on Christmas cards, but I am not sure if J .C. would
approve of that.

That is about as much reality as I can stand for right
now, however, I must admit that the circus clown, who lived
with my family for three years, was right when he told me,
“that a little reality really can be interesting, as long as it is
taken in moderation.”

agers, Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt
of “Party of Five”), Helen Shivers (Sa-
rah Michelle Gellar, TV’s “Buffy the
Vampire Slayer), Barry Cox (Ryan
Phillippe), and Ray Bronson (Freddie
Prinze, Jr.), who are celebrating the end
of their last summer together when they
accidently hit someone crossing the
road. Instead of going to the cops, they
decide to dump the body and pretend
it never happened.

Anne Heche, the relatively new ac-
tress whose roles in “Volcano” and
“Donnie Brasco” have marked her as a
real talent to watch, makes a fascinat-
ing cameo.

It’s all a lot of fun. Horror ﬁlms often
are critcized for being predictable and
having stupid characters. These char-
acters are less than smart at times, but
you never have to forgive the screen-
writer. It’s all motivated, explained within
the ﬁlm. And it’s fun to watch. You
won’t guess who the killer is. It doesn’t
go on too long. Everybody’s good-
looking, though a little more nudity
would have gone a long way (Hey, it
would have). People die interestingly.

seven

51¢ All day-Bookstore Sale
W&L Lessons and Carols service sung by the Chamber Sing-

ers in Lee Chapel 353? FRIDAY 34? last day of classes 351‘?
SATURDAY 3335 8 p.m. Handel’s Messiah sung by the
Rockbridge Choral Society at Lenfest 3? SUNDAY 35¢ 3
p.m. Rockbridge Ballet Holiday Dance Concert in Lenfest *1‘?

NEXT WEEK: 51¢ Take those ﬁnals *1‘? do some Christmas

shopping for your roomates, family, and any one else from
whom you want a present 3?; do laundry so your mom won’t

MONDAY 354? 8 p.m. “The
Ninth Step” in the Johnson The-

atre ¢I»‘< TUPSDAY 35$? 7p.m.

the University Chorus and Wind E
Ensemble present a Holiday Con-

cert ¢I’¢ 7:30 p.m. Men’s bas-
ketball in the Warner Center 35¢
9 p.m. “The Ninth Step” 51*?

WEDNESDAY 1%: 6 p.m.

Men’s and women’s swimming

$5 THURSDAY *3? 8 p.m.

have to when you get home 35¢

By Hollister Hovey

W0?-L0 Aios1>A~i.1?t=‘a l= 1?/me
\/

SPEND A SUMMER WORKING IN
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS OF MONTANA

>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<*,

PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH WILL SOON
BE RECRUITING ITS STAFF FOR THE 1998
SUMMER SEASON. BOTH WELL MOTIVATED
UNDERGRADUATED AND GRADUATING SENIORS
WHO DO NOT HAVE SPECIFIC FALL PLANS ARE
‘ENCOURAGED TO INTERVIEW FOR THIS
OPPORTUNITY. REPRESENTATIVES FROM ELK
CANYON RANCH WILL BE ON CAMPUS
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4TH TO CONDUCT
INTERVIEWS.

PLEASE CONTACT AMY HITLIN OF THE
CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE IN
MATTINGLY HOUSE FOR INFORMATION,
INSTRUCTIONS, AN APPLICATION, AND
AN INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT.

l«lvLL‘/woovt .//A

    

WAIaHiNé'PN ‘lt Lee...

Gifts

Always presentable’

CRABTREE 8: EVELYN”

available at:

 

22 West Washington St.
Downtown Lexington
464-3625

Mon—Sat. IO-5pm
Sun 12pm-3pm

 

   
 
 
 

  

   

 

 

 

YC . » I JAMES G. LEYBURN LlBHAH‘r
(£‘F€)”(?( —,,-5,9 NASHINGTON & LEE umvensm
 it I l L’ lEXiNGTON, VA 24450
  JAN 15 net
I ’  25 34
I - 1998 Winter Rush:
- ~ - — — — — — — - ~ - — — — — - - - - ~ - ~ ~ > - - — ~ - A - ~ — - ~ — — — ~ — vi , -—-~——~———~—~———A~~—~ ——————-———-
zo %%%%%% -  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% - ‘lfhe Numbers Never Lie  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% - .-
~ 3 ------ — — - - — —————————————————————————— - - . 3 -------------------- — — - -
as Approximately 80 percent of freshmen 3
E 15 " ‘ ' ’ ' ’ ' ‘ ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ ’ ‘ ’ ’ ‘ ’ ‘ ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ’ ' ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ “ males accepted fraternity bids Kappa Sig 2 3° ' ’ ’ ' ’ ' ’ ’ ’ " ' ‘ ’ ' ‘ " ' ‘ " " ‘ " ‘ ’
0. ' 1
3 — — — — — — - - ~ — - — — — — - — - snagged the most pledges, 23. *Lambda “.5 — —
, g 1o _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ - _ _ Chi didn ’t tear any pledges. (See related § 23 .
E page one story.) 5
= - _ __ 7 _ , _ _ _ _ =
z
z 5 _ _ V _ Approximately 70 percent of W&L women 25 _
pledged a sorority. This was KD ’sﬁrst
‘ _ M " _ rush conducted by W&L women. Chi-0
Ben xw KA K2 AxAu me on om ox: r1i<A r1i<d> ZAE xx ZN ms and Kappa were the only sororities to 24 ' '
Fraternity meet quota. Sorority
ii 3 ¢ .7 Bulk Rate
I Lexingtcn,Va.
B   t PWMM
4 Washington and Lee University Monday
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 10 JANUARY 12, 1998
~ I WO m ale
. ff'GS h m 9 I1
Ci B I d
k N ' ht - h I C U
I BY HEATHER MCDONALD AND WILL HARDIE
‘T-*— Assr. Nizws EDITOR AND COPY EDITOR
“It wasn’t this bad [last year], I can tell you that,” said
Dr. Jane Horton of the Student Health Center.
. Ten freshmen, five men and ﬁve women, ended
women’s Bid Night intoxicated in the infirmaiy Friday.
Three of the men were transferred to intensive care at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital with blood alcohol concen-
trations over .300, a level doctors consider physiologi-
ii cally dangerous. A BAC over .400 can be deadly, possi-
bly leaving the patient unable to breathe.
Two of the men were held overnight in intensive care;
the third was released back to the SHC.
The casualty’ ﬁgures for Saturday night were unavail-
'i able at the time of press, but in previous years Tear Night
has claimed more victims than Bid Night. On Bid Night
last year only one freshman was taken to the Stonewall
Jackson ER, but on Tear Night two freshman women and
I‘ one freshman man were taken to the SHC, two of whom
were transferred to the ER.
On Saturday afternoon, Horton, Security Chief Mike
Young, Dean Leroy “Buddy” Atkins, IFC President Ja-
son Callen and the fraternity presidents met to discuss
g the situation.
“Basically, all we talked about was toning stuff down,”
said Callen. “Unfortunately, there tends to be a lot of dam-
age to people and fraternity houses on Tear Night, and
we wanted to prevent that.” 7 Phi Psi junior, and freshman Mindee Perdueﬁolic in the spillover. This year 195
3 “Traditionally at W&L, Tear Night is a rough night, N OHﬂN LIKE A CHEAP CAN OF BEER ' " men and 156 women accepted bids from Greek organizations.
and we just wanted to make sure everyone had a safe Brian Cenviva, Phi Psi pledge, is ritually showered in beer, while Adam Ingols, a HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR
night,” he said.
I
* US mutual selection DFOCGSS
leaves freshmen t ' th Id
, y ou in e co
BY KATHIE SOROKA one I was invited back to, so 1 con- foimals with them. They were nice . . , . ,,
—‘——‘——‘——-“STAFF WRITER sjdered dropping out of Rush _ _ _ and about dropping me’ but sti”, I was Sup mg Y0“ It 5 not _801ng t_0 W0Tk Out-
Rush is supposed to be a time of Washington and Lee,” she said. “I felt prised.” . Two. other. dllappomted freshman
having fun, making friends and find- so rejected. Ikept asking myself what He has chosen to stay independent ,g,lrls’ .K,i,ent1€?/lug ihemselves .aS
I ing a place in a fraternity or sorority. I had done to make all these girls not rather than face the “stigma” of pledg- Francle and Rose’ wer.e not qulte
Unfortunately, some people fall like me.” ing an unpopular fraternity. as devastated‘ These glrls were
through the cracks. She was told Rush was “laid back” “It’s not the end of the world; I’ve drgppéd from Rush completely after
“In 3 Perfect W0F1d, and if and “notabig deal,” yet she does not moved on,” he said. “But, I did en- Skl: Fight" .
Panhellenic had its way, no one would feel this is the case. tertain thoughts of transferring and I m glad It happened to me and Pot
' fall through, but the way, no one “It’s unfair that they cut so many I’m not alone. Having frats at a S0mel?0dy.wh0 really cared about it’
would fall through, but the way the people after one night,” she said. “I school doesn’tautomatically make ev- Francie Sad’ I.mean’ I m not gomg
system works, there are inevitably wanted to be in a sorority my whole eryone happy,” Eibelllfclntherapy 111 1_0 V6315 because Of
going to be glitches,” said Panhellenic life. This was devastating. I’ve seen He feels the dorm counselors iS' 0w.S0me glrls 01.1 my.han W110
Rush Chair, S€I1i0F H0113’ Th°m5en- 50 many girls get their feelings hurt.” didn’t do an adequate job of prepar- this was 2.1 h.fe or.death Sltuanon for‘
“There’s a lot of confidential stuff in An anonymous freshman boy was ing the boys for Rush. Francle 15 a 1‘‘“‘?.h“" though‘
about. It’s a crappy process.” temities. wasn’t expecting duplicity,” he said. inouthﬁ She Saw‘ “It did hurt _m)’ feel‘
One anonymous freshman only got “I considered these guys close “While you’re at their Rush date they lugs" I was Stunned’ a1moSt.mcredu'
‘ invited back to one sorority aﬁer Open friends,” he said about one fraternity. say, ‘We’d really love to have you back 1:95’ lfecause I tholiight ,1, did every-
House Night. “I h . . h h . 1 f b . , ’ t ing was suppose to.
“I wasn’t very comfortable with the Homzhscorariifilgigeirfdlthhvdt gcinzlriosltliscei i1heoi1(ex’ihc‘l3ayr$:)liie:gSeltll2:ep)l,1(:)liiefziliilelif ‘Tm not upsei that Pm indepen-
- dent, but I wish 1]: was more of my
' ' ' choice than some ody else’s ” Rose     /’..
Faculty office smoking falls victim to - i . hnsto_phe‘r~Lue’
d. “I f 1 fl f b h .   .*~    ’
~ Zeéiifé Si eftctitede ..',’2f’i ~“*h°¢sh 1ﬂ¥'nl=*1iet?nx;ﬁna1¢xa!ns .
new pol icy ‘fis h bowl’ s moki n still 0 K Just have nothing to do ” ””~A‘““”t“““° W“ ~”‘’i°‘‘‘°”‘*‘ “”
’ ‘ g Francie suggests that Rho Chi’s tell .‘. iB»u‘tA°\f°r  most part mere”
BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK weighing the rights between smokers and non-smokers.” their girls more about the possibility of V
at NEWS EDITOR “Anyone who broaches the subject of smoker’s rights not making it to Pledge Night.
The administration has successfully extinguished fac- will instantly be told that smokers have no rights,” “I was led to believe that they had
ulty office smoking, after a heavy crossﬁre and debate MacDonald said. “So I never really touch that subject aspot in the sororities for all the girls
between non-smokers and smokers. President John Elrod anymore.” pledging,” she said. “We never'dis-
released a statement Friday outlining Washington and “All fall, we listened to the views of smokers,” Dean cussed with my Rho Chi about not
’ Lee’s revised smoking policy, one that will prohibit fac- Laurent Boetsch said. “We understand that it will be in- getting into a sorority. In fact, she
ulty smokers from lighting up in their offices. convenient for professors to go smoke outside and inter- said each sorority’s pledge class was  
“It was done in the interest of health and safety,” Elrod rupt their work. But the same goes for non-smokers. A the number of girls pledging divided   p  ' 
Said- _ lot of non-smokers were forced to work at home because by ﬁve.” as p   » p  p  , t ‘ " Nohjfﬁtemﬁg  952 .
, "(lj‘he smoking lounges in the library will still accom- of the second-hand smoke.” “I didn’t know a lot of the upper-    R  - "  P ‘ “ " ’ A   .
mo ate smoking studiers. Creating smoking lounges in academic buildings classmen girls, but I was under the '
b “I donh’t see anynproblelms Cxlvithithe smoking longues, to accommodate professors who smoke was not an op- impression that you can go there and  m  a C h I d    S h
ecauset ey are we -venti ate an insulated,” Elrod said. tion. meet people and you still have a “ _ ,
Elrod said that he hasn’t heard any negative feedback “We barely have enough room for professors and stu- chance,” Francie said. BY KATHRYN MAYURNIIVIEEWS EDITOR There 15 no threat Ofus losmg our
* from faculty members, but Professor of Journalism Ronald dents, let alone smoking lounges,” Boetsch said. Rose agreed. “Everybody says you Size doesn’t matter, At least not charter bécause of our .Small num-
MacDonald, a pipe smoker, is slightly steamed about the The committee of deans and Director of Personnel make so many friends during Rush, for Lambda chi Aipha_ b(?rS’” Sald Rush Chalrman Dan
change. Robert Fox explored the question of second-hand smoke. but I just don’tsee it,” she said. “You I Lambda Chi voluntarily tore no Hmey‘ “weave been worse Off be-
“I’m not happy about it,” he said. “But it is something “It was the best decision for the majority,” said Boetsch. meet people for a second, and they’ve freshman Saturday since the 21-man fora” .
.[ that I have to go along with it and find a way to survive.” “Those with respiratory problems especially suffered.” met the rest of the freshman class that house consists of 10 seniors and only A group of me" want to tear with

Professor of Journalism John Jennings smokes, but
never smoked in his office.
‘‘It really won’t affect me,” he said. “It was a matter of

In response to more smokers pufﬁng outdoors, the Uni-
versity will provide more outside ashtrays to cut down on
littering.

night. By the time you leave, you
don’t remember the names of the
people you met.”

four sophomores, some might feel that
the fraternity is in a precarious posi-
tion. The brothers disagree.

them immediately, but they want the
chance to get to know a few others

(D SEE RUSH PAGE 2

 

    

  

AE    V 0   W JANUARY 12, 199 I.
ODK Inductees

  
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
   

 

C1388 Of 1998 David Andrew Lehman
Byron Bernard Burns, III David Edward Sugerrnan
Anurag Nunzni Chandra 1
Timothy Francis Cleary Law Class of 1998
§’"a1:“I:l‘¥ ‘ref’; D°l‘°”Y Jeffrey Alan Keithline
a°,d Dlc a_e F gorm Timothy Josephy Keefer
Davih 8:/;‘l'lSh olszr M. B. Long I
zlaziiiefiiive I)1:ni:: Hzigd/(e)Sck David Tilton Mclndoe
Joshua David Heslinga
Glenn Frederick Miller  ClEassk0f  LIP  COMPETITION  T0 
TIN oynrecsoni I
“\;;§{ama{€§;ar§WO,SOn Wm, Owens Lewis FUNDS,FUN FOR AREA CHARITY ON JAN. 19 -
Celeste Elizabeth Rasmussen Hutchinson
Anne Carter Shaw Enen Marie wasilausky The 13th annual Lip Synch competition will be held Friday, January 23, in the Pavilion.
Lorraine Marie Taurassi Act registration is $30; there is a six-person limit on acts. This year’s competition will be
John Joseph Thrall Honorary Members hosted by Matt O’Brien and Wes Armstrong. There will be a mandatory meeting on Thurs- ,
Laurent Boetsch , 69 day, January 22 to detennine the order of the acts. The number of acts per group is not limited.
Class of 1999 Ben S Gambi“ ,67 All proceeds will go to Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger (S.A.R.A.H.). Last
Lindai Kramz year, over 8 tons of food were collected for local area food banks. Organizers Matt O’Brien I
Maflﬁwesley A1'm5tT°ng Ed ar  S encer ,53 and Gerry Darrell are hoping to surpass last year’s record level of participation, when the 20 :
Natalia M- D°r°feeVa g ' P acts including the Housemothers and Dining Hall staff. Contact either Matt O’Brien at 464- I‘ I

1221 or Gerry Darrell at 462-8596 if you have any questions before the meeting.

FOUNDER’S DAY/ODK INITIATION JAN. 19;
DISTINGUISHED CIVIL WAR HISTORIAN TO SPEAK ’

The 127th observation of Robert E. Lee’s birthday will be celebrated Jan. 19 at 1 1:30 a.m.
in Lee Chapel. This year’s speaker will be James I. “Bud” Robertson, Jr., who is widely
acclaimed as one of the nation’s leading Civil War historians. The title of his lecture is “Lee: '
The Marvelous Man.” He has received every major honor given in the ﬁeld of Civil War
history, and has authored or editored over 20 books. Robertson is Alumni Distinguished
Professor in History at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Va.

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary fraternity founded at W&L, will initiate 20
undergraduate students, seven law students and four honorary members.

Founder’s Day was instated after Lee’s Death, when the Washington College board of
trustees declared that his birthday should always be celebrated at the college. ODK was founded
in 1914 to recognize superior leadership achievements in various aspects of campus life.

WLUR TO HOLD MEETING TONIGHT AT 7

WLUR 91.5 FM is holding an organizational meeting to organize the winter term radio
schedule on Monday, Jan. 12, at 7 p.m. in Reid Hall 203. No prior experience is necessary. ’‘
Everyone is welcome.

JOHNNY GRIFFIN JAZZ QUARTETTTONIGHT AT 8

The Johnny Griffin Jazz Quartet will be performing at 8 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. For
tickets call 463-8000. Tickets cost $3.00 for students, faculty and staff.

—. Compiled by Heather McDonald
/5‘: I to ‘mold tliemﬁ’ U - ' 1 A A , ‘
[\,‘  R U S H Lambda Chi builds up their freshmen, instead of break-

Cl(;N-HNUED FROM PAGE 1 ing them down, Hilley said. 

The fratemi is proud of their strong stand against
who they met too late during the rush process, men who hazing. ty    G I I 
fell through the cracks. Instead of extending bids to just *

. _ “People think that because we do not haze, Lambda
anyone to increase their numbers, the Lambda Chis are

striving to be more selective to get Pledges that will pre Chi is just a iignﬁup Sheet1’l”hHmey i%aid‘f“But th§g.ilS.n’t * * * * * * * * * * * *
t ' . Th ' t res onsi i i .
serve their besie ttetetnitv neliey and redefine their in tl?s1:entialT)f,ewer:e:vili1l:::iiinin:iIi:m(io:un d 1‘r:i'atemityt.)’I’ PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH IS SEEKING
ag?.f‘;°“E‘§;“5' h ,h b ,h , are 0,, ,0 We on ‘fwe are Yety excited ebetit setting a eete green of COLLEGE STUDENTS TO WORK FOR THE ,
°n ” "f’w °“_’ 3 r0 e S g g mrate quality individuals who are willing to take’up this chal- SU1‘,I1\,IER OF 1998 AS ‘VRANGLERS AT OUR
these men, Hilley said. We really want to conce lenge Hllley Sald_ It 5 hke Stamng oven R
on getting quality guys, instead of quantity.” " ’ V  OR AS FLY FISHING GUIDES UPON 
“it was really “aid t° meet 'f‘" °“h‘i Mme‘? '°°°a“.“ Wanted nu Individuals, Student SMITH RIVER. MUST HAVE GOOD EXPERIENCE IN \
th: Ill”l3_l();ify ofour house coritsilstslpfserEiors,:)Hilleytsaid. organizations and small Groups to Promote EITHER FIELD AND NIUST BE V‘/ELL ABOVE X
“ 0t 0 our seniors are ou 00 mg or _]O s, S0] was 19975 - 3,eak1',-ave] packages A.
really hard.” Earn snhs‘§§'n"§’di MONEY and ease mes AVERAGE IN PEOPLE SKILLS. SPECIAL ,
The freshmen that Lambda Chi will end up initiating AT Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS  CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO
will deﬁne the fraternity for the next four years, said Hilley. ‘1-800-3 27-601 3 GRADUATING SENIORS,
“We’re looking for a core group of leaders that will ’
take over most of the house offices in the spring,” Hilley PLEASE COXTACT A]_\/IVY HITLI:§ OF THE
said. “Since the sophomores are always the best at rush- CAREER DE‘/ELOP1\/‘[Ej§T OFFICE IS
ing guys, we want to be more selective about this year’s R D {AT}: Om
members, so they can recruit in greater numbers next EXCELLENT BJATTIXGLY SE  ON Am) V
year.” EXTRA INCOME NOW! INSTRUCTIONS , AN APP ,
This way, Hilley says, the fraternity will not be top ENVELOPE STUFF|NG_s5oo_$8oo every week AN ISTERVIEV7 APPOI$Th4E$T-
heavy, because they will lose smaller numbers of gradu- Free Details, SASE to
ating seniors in the upcoming years. A International Inc. PLEASE ALSO WRITE TO ELK CANYON RANCH,
...;3‘:‘:..“:;°.:‘.‘*;*t:;::..it;:;:.:it:;‘:.::f;tt:;::::*‘:.:; aI3I»‘«~5é’."»‘i«!v'v‘'v‘’«'~‘r‘i‘i‘t'ieo 1151 SMITH RIVER ROAD» WHITE SULPHURSPR‘NGS= ’
. . g h. W}; H d " ' MONTANA, 59645 FOR SPECIAL INFORMATION ABOUT
unique image ont is campus,” i ey sai .
After Lambda Chi tears the group of freshmen, they THESE TWO POSITIONS’
will seek out independents in a deferred rush process. ,
“We are looking for guys who maybe

its":.2::.W.::‘.‘:t.z.::::‘t:‘:.:“:::t;:*::I: SPEND A SUMMER WORKING IN
 ’ w ﬂﬂféﬂﬂ @3049” THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS OF MONTANA .

Lambda Chi President Trey Lee admits
that image is sometimes a big catalyst at

an tattisissometimesw some ' * * * *  * * * *
‘Y:?i§1‘L§TE3%En§::Z‘..d5...... PC'PP°g°“°’5 W‘ “T97 Sale PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH WILL SOON

°fII0 fau,1I0ftheiI°WIIa”’Lee Said,-_ _ BE RECRUITING ITS STAFF FOR THE 1998 '
weliv:sSkfr]:1‘titr(iiriti:rs(:1rIOi3i':i<itgztfcjiigifiaiz Slices and Clothing SUMMER SEASON BOTH WELL MQTIVATED

in a period of transition, and Lambda Chi

feemhatit,s,e,dyf0,,heCh,,,g,,_ : _ 1 V UNDERGRADUATED AND GRADUATING SENIORS
¢‘Tl'1lS is adworld where there is grow- plmne 4©3_5Q58 _______ V Q3  Meiin __e><mg‘LOri        

ing adversity against fraternities because

people are failing out ofbundings and get |”5”o‘.ED REs[DEN'r/AL suMMER CAMP‘ ENCOURAGED TO INTERVIEW FOR THIS

ting drunk,” Lee said. “By our very dif-

ferent nature, we have an edge, an inher— ‘ needs male and female Cabin COnSe/O/‘S,     ’

:E;:?‘;f;?:’2.i2:?.:? :t:.i:“.:t::.‘;:;*:;"*:::§ Adventure Counselors, instructors CANYON RANCH WILL BE ON CAMPUS

L-ambdahChi is the fastest growing frater- (Swimming, HOrSe, CanOe, Ropes),     

nit in t e nation.” ' ' in
)l~Iowever, W&L’s chapter of Lambda Health Coordinators and Area Directors. 

Chi has not been growing as fast as the LOCated Near Gree/7SbOrO, 

I1ati0f1al fFatemit)’- PLEASE COXTACT AIVIY HITLIX OF THE
tt h d h ' d'ff d , , I

untr:dit:t)ri:fl,”‘l-Iiﬁ:yl:aicI?‘Mar(iyei’1fa::]r- For more information call Netta at CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE IN

MATTINGLY HOUSE FOR INFORMATION, ‘ ,
INSTRUCTIONS, AN APPLICATION, AND
AN INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT.

nities follow a military system with their    or
pledges. They break them down in order _ _
e-ma// me//IOtt@amarog. ces. ncsu. edu

 

JANUARY 12, 1998

l‘? 2,: . ‘kw

ltﬂyou can handle

 

ANNEIISER-IUSCN
Washington and Lee students may put their uncanny
appreciation for beer products to good use in the market-
ing and distribution departments of the company.
Feb. 1.

BY 5’IEPHEN Prisca
SrAi=i=WRnisR

Many summer internships do notoffer any monetary
compensation for months of work.While some interns may
be happy to accept better understand-
ing of a particular industry and few
other beneﬁts, some students yearn
for greater things.

Some are awestruck by the raw
power of a big, rolling wiener. Some still

  
   
  
  

IAYWATOII
Students will witness ﬁrst-
hand the genius behind the world’s
most absorbing drama. Rolling Deadline.

_ OOMEDY CENTRAL
°‘‘“‘"'.‘‘‘‘’'_ 35 t‘lh° l;1‘f‘°k'f‘:’h‘h:d 5P¥ -°“‘°':1S ‘lyl; South Park!!! April Fools Deadline.
nanllte In t C W ltC'C 0 C Spy 5 San WIC   

in the latest issue of Mad Magazine. Some
twenty-year-old eyes illuminate with the magic
unlocked by the twist of an Oreo cookie. Some
still clearly see the logistics of a talking dog solving mys-
teries with his friends.

If you are one of those students who wants more than
an insider ’s understanding of a certain industry—even if it

 Interns aid in sensory analysis, prod-
uct distribution and development while enjoy-
ing the mountain recreation of Golden, Colorado. March 1 .

FORD MOTOR COMPANY A
Interns work in manufacturing and marketing and
get to watch the crash test demonstrations.

   

is just a few Doritos—read on. APT“ 1-
The following internships for the sunnner of 1998 are FOX INCORPORATED

all legitimate internships that require hard work and help Interns work closely with movie

pave the way for future employment. They also have some screenings and get a free video. Roll-

odd, interesting or different characteristics. Further infor- irig Deadline.

mation about these and other internships for this summer fﬁrfc LAY

can be found in the Career Development and Placement «Chip heaven}: March 31'

Office in the Mattirigly House. "‘""A ."a£'A

‘cA°EM' of '£I'EvIsI°" ‘'78 Interns must have a double “o” in their name.

AND SCIENCES

Ain’t that right, Boo-Boo. Rolling Deadline.
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
Harley—Davidson provides work in marketing

and distribution. Interns meet many interesting
people. March 31.

The Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences offers a highly esteemed, hands-
on internship within the television indus-
try. Deadline: March 31.

 

Escape Lex’s quaintness
for D.C.’s grandeur

BY MELODY ANDREOLA

BY SARAH NIEIDRUM
——————-—— SrAn=WRni-:1

K, so maybe the Greek scene
isn’t your cup of tea. At
Washington and Lee, some-

times it seems as if the Greek scene is
the only form of entertainment around.
The school does throw the occasional
lavish party-think FD, Mock Conven-
tion—but there are a lot of other week-
ends when not much appears to hap-
pen. -

Students who choose to remain
independent are not cutting them-
selves off from their friends in frater-

8rAn=WRnnz

Some 19-year-olds in the nation’s capital wake up every morning and
head to work at Burger King. Last spring, Jason Hahn, ’99, woke up each
morning and went to work at The White House. Junior Nathaniel Tencza
made the morning commute from his Connecticut Avenue apartment to
CBS News headquarters.

Halm and Tencza took advantage of W&L’s spring term internship
program in Washington, D.C. During the Washington Tenn Program run by
Professor William Connelly of the Politics department, students intern
Monday through Thursday, and attend class and guest lectures on Fri-
days. They receive credit for their work.

Hahn, a politics major, interned at The White House travel office.

“It was really exciting working there,” he said.

Although he didn’t get to meet President Clinton, Hahn did see him
and the First Family. “We used to have Chelsea and Hilary sightings in the
hall,” he said.

The main component of the six-week program, the internship, is the
student’s responsibility. With the help of Professor Connelly and his assis-

tant, Danielle Simonetta, students can apply for internships in almost any BY ERICA PROSSER SWFWRHE,

ﬁeld. Students find their internships during Winter Term while attending a V stardom has beckoned to a

weekly class aimed at preparing students for the program. I cadet and he has answered
Tencza used the alumni network to land “,5 a Show called The Real World

his internship at the newscast division of CBS
News. He produced, edited, wrote and con-
ducted interviews for the two- to three- minute

that claims to be about  well, the real

Interns learn . world. Now, one VMI cadet will be-

by d01ng- clips used on the evening news. come a ."‘‘’'‘“b“ ofthe MTV Show ﬂlat
—William Tencza covered a variety of high- roﬁle made Vlewers understand what reahty
. . . p . really is.
Connelly news stories, including man—on-the-street in-

Dave Bums, VMI senior, has fin-
ished the complex and lengthy inter-
view process, and he has worked his
way into the hearts of the executive
producers. Confirmation of his place
on the show came through the first
week of December. Burns is ofﬁcially a
member of The Real World VII, the sev-
enth season of the popular program.

The show consists of seven

_j_______ 9 ’ terviews about the controversy surrounding

Joe Camel. “It was the hardest thing to walk
up to people on the street with a microphone in my hand and a cameraman
behind me and get them to talk with me. It was great,” said Tencza.

The Washington Tenn Program is open to all majors. Interns in the past
have worked in Congress, think-tanks and lobbying firms, as well as The
White House and CBS.

“The Washington Program works well with any liberal arts education
because it exposes students to an array of different elements including
history, politics, and science,” said Jeremy Adams, senior.

“Intems learn by doing,” said Professor Connelly.

The course complements each student’s internship. Professor Connelly
tailors reading assignments to support the student’s internship experiences
with the related theories. The aim of the course work is to force the student
to think more broadly about what he sees and hears it: the internship and
within the classroom.

“Washington Term is an opportunity to combine theory and practice
and forces you to question ideas in the face of competing evidence,” said
Adams about his experiences.

The last part of the course, the guest lectures, exposes students to a

  

e igtiliiﬁrresroritrrg
Jan. 16 & 17

 

variety of professionals working in Washington, DC. Past lecturers include Underground
Mack McLarty, the former Chief of Staff to President Clinton, and Washing- Tw 0 e ,1 , re P , e n eu , 1- a 1
ton and Lee alumnus, Congressman Jim Davis. friend, hide the,-rfaml-[ms

To apply, pick up an application outside of Professor Connelly’s oﬂice.
in the Williams School. Attach a resume, a writing sample, and an unofficial
copy of your transcript. Students must have completed Pol 100, 101 or 1 1 1 .
If you have any questions, contact Danielle Sirnonetta.

——W&Life Editor Liz Detter contributed to this article.

and neighbors in a base-
ment shelter during W W]
and convince them to
manufacturer weapons to
sell on the black market.

jjjjjjjjjjjjjjq

   

3a‘,%, «;.m_ », .» ,. J’rul' ’

could be driving the Wienermobile

PAGE 3

 
  

  

    

compe ition,

Q3???

stiff

 

TNE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE

Interns work closely with the decision-makers and
top executives of the NFL and get free merchandise.
April 1.

NOME IOX OFFICE

Interns with programming of the nation’s
two most popular pay television stations, HBO
and Cinemax. March*3 1.

THE LATE SNOW WITN DAVID
LETTERMAN

Program admittedly limits interns to
secretarial work, but they know the Top Ten
List before any of their friends. March 1.

MAO MAGAZINE

“Free pinball instruction from a man who was once
known as ‘The Big Gun’ and ‘Gunther.”’ Interns partici-
pate in brainstorming for upcoming issues. May 1.

MATTEL
Mattel offers internships in product development,

    
 
  

NIELSON NORTH AMERICA

Someone needs to tell those people what we re-
ally watch on television. Rolling deadline.

OSCAR MEYER WIENERMOBILE
The Oscar Meyer Wienermobile is looking for joumal-
ism, public relation and advertising students to be spokes-
persons for the wieneimobile. _ And that’s no bologna. Feb. 2.

PLAYIOY MAGAZINE

Interns work in distribution, mar-
keting and other areas, learning the
magazine industry in a perky, upbeat

'aW5’.!§

   

Jan. 23 & 24
Microcosmos
Using specially designed
cameras, this documentary
tracks a day from dawn to

 

marketing and other ﬁelds. One intern started her own
personal line of the famous Barbie doll. March 31.

c%7a¢

Rolling deadline.

MTV

Music Television-Intems get to wear
casual clothes and hang out on the beach.

NAIISCO

Nabisco offers work in public relations, cus-

atmosphere. Rolling deadline.
IIOII
Reebok requires attendance at
seminars on the importance of not wearing Nike and offers
$5 massages to all interns and employees. March 15.

\t

O
hgr

l

ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE

tomer service and marketing, not to mention free cookies.

Interns generally gain 15 pounds by the end of the program.

Marchl.

NATIONAL IASKETIALL ASSOCIATION
Interns work closely with the decision-makers and top

executives of the NBA. March 31.

NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY

Interns work in various capacities during the intem-
ship, including sports, news, comedy, and drama. April 1 1 .

Proud to be
Greek free:

Social scene
for independents

nities and sororities.

“The majority of my friends are
Greek,” Tadzia GrandPre said.
GrandPre tried to start an Independent
Union with fellow senior Andrew
Ruppar a few years ago.

“[We] tried to do it for two years,
but there’s not much interest in it,”
GrandPre said. The Independent
Union no longer exists on campus.

Maybe independent students
simply like being, well, independent.

“It’s certainly possible to have a
ﬁilﬁlling college life without belong-
ing to a Greek organization,” senior

strangers picked to live in a house and
get along for ﬁve months. MTV some-
times puts conditions on the members
of the cast, just to make things inter-
esting. The cast of the sixth season
had to spend 20 hours each week do-
ing community service. Burns does
not yet know what, if any, conditions
will be placed on him, but that part does
not matter as much as getting to be on
camera 24 hours a day.

For Burns, it all began with an
open casting call in a Richmond pub.

Burns impressed the show’s pro-
ducers and directors from the first. He
endured several interviews, both on-
and off-camera, over the course of sev-
eral months. Interviewers asked him
about his life at VMI, his family back
in Boston, his future plans and his

Jan. 30 & 31
The Blue Kite

dusk in mi-
cro-metropo-
[is of tiny
creatures in-
habiting a
F r e n c h
° meadow.

An epic docudrama
about I 6 years of birth
and death, tears and
laughter, and happi-
ness and tragedy in a
Chinese home.

 

Interns examine the magazine industry through the
eyes of pop culture. March 30.

SESAME STREET
This is the only internship that places you next to big

fuzzy puppets. Rolling deadline.

WALT DISNEY STUDIOS
Walt Disney Studios offers internships in the world’s

foremost in the animation industry. Interns examine the

March3l.

Milagros Daly said. Daly
is a member of numer-
ous clubs, including
the International
Club, which holds
events for all stu-
dents. Daly said
that the International
Club plans to host a
Polish dance festival
later this year.

The Fridays! committee, started
by former “Dean of Fun” Michelle
Richardson, provides Friday night en-
tertainment. GrandPre, president of
the committee, said Fridays! likes to
bring in comedians, bands, and other
entertainment.

work of the animation studios. Ask for “J imbo.” He teaches
the most eﬁective ways to slip perversions in the cartoons.

“They’re things you can do be-
fore going out to parties,” she ex-
plained. Students are welcome to at-
tend, whether or not they participate
in fratemity or sorority Rushes.

Junior Mark Slomiany decided
against rushing when he was a fresh-
man. Although he does not regret his
decision, he does think there are ben-
eﬁts to belonging to a fraternity, such
as having a place to gather with a large
group of friends.

“It would be nice if W&L had a
student center like other schools,” he
said. Until the new student center is
built, independent students will lack a
central meeting-place.

But independents do not lack

social options in Lexington.

(6

It’s certainly possible to
have a ﬁilﬁlling college life

Dorm rooms, apartments,
restaurants, and movie the-
aters are some of students’
hangouts.

“I think Greek afﬁliation

without belonging to a deﬁnitely loses importance by
G1-gek organization the time people reach senior
_MilagT0S D a [y year, said Vanessa Hall, senior.

“The Palms and the Staircase

personality. They invited him to Wash-
ington, D.C., for another interview. Fi-
nally, Burns brought the show’s direc-
tors and cameramen home to Boston
with him over Thanksgiving to meet
his family. The directors were collect-
ing footage for the premiere episode
of the show, in case Burns made the
cut. After that break, the executive
producers gave him the thumbs-up,
and Burns was ofﬁcially made a mem-
ber of the cast.

A week in Los Angeles followed
his selection. This month, Burns will
head off to Seattle to spend ﬁve
months in a house with six other
people, all the while under the eye of a
video camera. The complete season
will air in July 1998, and Burns will be
back in Lexington to see it. Although

 Cut-it-out 
Washington and Lee  Society Calendar

All screenings are at 7:30p.m. in the Troubadour Cinema at the comer of Main and Henry Streets.

Feb. 6 & 7
The Pillow
Book
Aroused by
having men
write on her
naked body, a woman
chooses lovers who are’
good calligraphers to sat-
isfy her fetish.

 

hjjjjjjjjjjjjjj

’ become the center of the so-
cial scene.”

VMI cadet enters The Real World

his work at VMI is almost complete, he
needs to spend a sunnner finishing up.

The Real World has thrown
strangers together in six major cities
to date. The ﬁrst season of the show
was set in New York City and aired in
May 1992. The other cities selected
have been Los Angeles, San Fran-
cisco, London, Miami and Boston.
Cast members are chosen from across
the country and are identiﬁed by only
their ﬁrst names while on the show.
Like other cast members, Burns will be
paid an undisclosed fee for participat-
ing in the show. Nothing is yet known
about whether MTV will create an
eighth season of the show or where
such a season would be ﬁlmed.

MTV has asked VMI and Burns
not to comment on his role in the series.

oNE ACT

AU DITIONS

Jan. 17 & 18, 2-5 p.m.
in the Johnson Theater

Black actresses and actors
are especially needed. Parts
are available for one black ac-
tress in Alex Christensen’s
“Raimie” and one black actor
in T. W. Leshner’s production of
Richard Kaliban’s “Gladiator.”

Scripts available at the
third-ﬂoor Lenfest Center re-
ception desk.

 

 

 

PAGE 4

RESULTS

Men's Basketball (5-5)
Mon.: Va. Wesleyan 53
W&L 59
Thur.: St. Mary’s (MD) 80
W&L 62

Sat: Roanoke 72
W&L 62
Women's Basketball

(53)

Tues.: EastemMerm. 44
W&L 62

Thur.: W&L 64
Hollins 45

Sat.: W&L 54
Roanoke 61

AHEAD

Monday

Men's Basketball -
Dickinson

7:00 p.m., Warner Center

Tuesday

Women's Basketball —
Va. Wesleyan

7:00 p.m., Warner Center
M&W Swimming —
Buffalo State

7:00 p.m., Twombly Pool

Wednesday

Men's Basketball —
Lynchburg

7:30 p.m., Warner Center

Thursday

Women's Basketball —
Randolph-Macon

7:00 p.m., Wamer Center
Wrestling — Anderson
7:00 p.m., Doremus Gym

Saturday .
Women's Basketball —
at Lynchburg, 2:00 p.m.
M&W Swimming —
at Goucher, 10:00 a.m.
at Catholic, 4:00 p.m.
Women's Track —

at Va. Tech Invitational
Wrestling —

at Swarthmore
Invitational, 10:00 a.m.

Basketball falls to
Roanoke after up-
and-down week

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
:“‘“:"“’* STAFF VVRITER

The Generals closed out an up-and-
down week with a tough loss on Sat-
urday Night at the Warner Center to
arch rival Roanoke College, 72-62.
The game was full of physical play
and ended with a altercation after the
ﬁnal buzzer between players from
both sides. The loss concluded a 1-2
week for the Generals hoopsters, who
downed Virginia Wesleyan 59-53 in
a thriller on Monday night and lost to
St. Mary’s of Maryland on Thursday,
80-62.
The Generals led Roanoke 37-32
at the half, sparked by the hot shoot-
ing of Will Ballard and his 10 ﬁrst-
half points. But the Generals met with
disaster in the second half as the Ma-
roons outscored them 40-25.
Roanoke capitalized on the Gen-
erals’ inability to take care of the bas-
ketball, forcing 23 Generals turnovers
on way to the victory. The Generals
were not able to control the pace of
the game as Roanoke forced an up-
tempo game, using Generals’ tum-
overs to get out on the fast break.
The Maroons were led by a bal-
anced scoring attack as four players
finished in double digits. Junior guard
Dewane Bullock led the way with 20
points, back court partner Nathan
Hungate ﬁnished with 10, sophomore
forward Kyle Murphy ﬁnished with
10, and Tom Dettloff finished with 12.

The Generals were led by senior
Kelly Dyer who finished with 21
points and Scott Hudson who scored
14. The loss brought the Generals to

    

5-5 overall and 3-2 in the ODAC, one
game behind first place Hainpden-
Sydney, who downed Guilford 102-
74 on Saturday.

The win improved Roanoke to 5-
5 overall and 2-2 in the ODAC. The
loss marked the fourth game of a six-
game home stand in which the Gen-
erals have gone 2-2 thus far. The
Generals return to action Monday
night as they host Dickinson in a non-
conference battle at the Warner Cen-
ter at 7:00 p.m.

Washington and Lee 59

Virginia Wesleyan 53

The Generals kicked off the 1998
portion of their season with a thrill-
ing victory over Virginia Wesleyan
on Monday Night at the Warner Cen-
ter, downing the Marlins 59-53 with
a huge second half comeback.

The Generals trailed the Marlins
24-13 at the half as they shot a miser-
able 22 percent from the ﬁeld in the
ﬁrst half. But the Generals came roar-
ing back in the second half,
outscoring the Marlins 46-29 and
shooting 59 percent from the ﬁeld to
pull off the upset. The Generals also
forced 23 Marlin turnovers through-
outlthe course of the game.

With less than 3:00 left in the game,
the Generals again found themselves
trailing the Marlins, this time 53-47.
But the Generals ended the game with
an amazing 12-0 run, including an
amazing tip in by Kelly Dyer with 0:25
left in the game and one second remain-
ing on the shot clock. Head Coach
Kevin Moore praised the Generals for
the amazing comeback.

Are you good with numbers?

0112 ilting-tum {ﬂirt

is looking for a

Business Manager.

SUBMIT YOUR RESUME AND A
COVER LETTER TO TH E PHI

IAAILBOX IN THE

UNIVERSITY CENTER BY
p.m. Friday, anuary 16.

You will get paid!

sports

JANUARY 12, 1998

PHOTO BY HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

' Sophomore Rich Peterson shoots from the charity stripe Thursday night in an 80-62 loss to St.
Mary ’s (MD). Peterson ﬁnished the night with 12 points.

“An old W&L team would have just
given up, but this is anew W&L team,”
said Moore. “ We had a lot of different
people step up for us at crucial times.”

Moore went on to praise the play of
sophomore guard Matt Jackson, who
led the Generals with 18 points, and
freshman forward Eric Owsley, who
played a crucial role down the stretch.

“Matt [Jackson] had a huge game
for us and Eric [Owsley] made a lot
of plays that just don’t show up in the
box score,” commented Moore. “We
don’t have a player who is going to
carry us; we have a lot of good play-

ers and each game we’ve had some-
one different pick up the slack.”

Sophomore forward and last year’s
ODAC freshman of the year, Rich
Peterson, made his return from his
hand injury and scored ll points and
was 5-6 from the line including key
free throws down the stretch.

The Marlins were led by Jason
Nickerson, who scored 12 for Vir-
ginia Wesleyan. Tim Petrillo added
10 and Troy Walton scored 1 1 for the
Marlins. The win dropped the Mar-
lins to 6-2 overall and 3-2 in the
ODAC.

St. Mary’s Md. 80

Washington and Lee 62

The Generals couldn’t keep up with
a tough St. Mary’s team and lost to the
Seahawks 80-62 Thursday night at the
Warner Center. The Generals trailed
from the beginning and could never
come back to catch the quicker and
faster Seahawks.

The Seahawks shot an amazing 74
percent from the ﬁeld in the second half
and finished the game shooting 69 per-
cent from the ﬁeld. The Generals were
outscored by nine points in each half
and could not find the mark on offense.

Division III Preseason
Men’s Lacrosse Poll

Washington and Lee is ranked 1 1th in the preseason men’ s
lacrosse poll. W&L was ranked 13th at the end of the 1997
season. W&L opens its season at Guilford on February 25th.

1. Nazareth 1,306
2. Washington College 1,265
3. Salisbury State 1,180
4. Ohio Wesleyan 1,087
5. Gettysburg 1,048
6. Roanoke 905
7. Denison 824
8. Middlebury 730
9. Alfred 706
10. Hartwick 640
11. Washington and Lee 610
12. Ithaca 512
13. Williams 415
14. Hampden-Sydney 410
15. Western Maryland 364
16. R.l.T. 361
17. Cortland State 213
18. Springfield 192
19. Franklin & Marshall 174
20. Amherst 169
21. Bowdoin 145
22. Connecticut College 104
23. R.P.l. 89
24. Greensboro 74
25. St. Lawrence 49
26. Whittier 47
27. Randolph-Macon 40
28. St. Mary's, Md. 35
29. Marymount 25
30. Lynchburg 24

 

Winter breakjust
a brief pause

“Not long enough.” That was the over-
whelming response to last week’s frequently
asked question, “How was your break?”

The brief respite from school known as
Christmas Break was a mere two weeks this
year. Not that this is unusual; Washington
and Lee students get a three-week vacation
only during leap years.

While most college students around the
nation have a month off of school before
returning for classes, the Generals have just
enough time to dash home, see the parentals,
get some presents and celebrate New Year’s
Eve before rushing back to school.

The short break is a by-product of the
trimester system. The same system that
created the fabled lazy days of spring term is
the reason that the W&L academic calendar
is so bizarre.

Classes start later in Lexington than
almost anywhere else in the United States.
In May, long after friends at other schools
have left their books behind for summer jobs
and internships, W&L students are starting
spring term.

While spring term brings students the
opportrmity to study abroad, take special
seminars and make frequent trips to Goshen,
the trimester system also has some draw-
backs. The unique schedule poses problems
for starting dates for summer work, prevents
students from holding semester-break jobs
and doesn’t allow enough time to relax
between terms.

Aubetter way for W&L to keep the tradi-
tional» advantages of spring term and lose the
negative side effects would be to have a four
to six week optional term, either_in January
or in June. Fall and winter semesters could
be lengthened and courseloads increased to
ﬁve classes.

With the extra time off at Christmas,
students could actually get a chance to
unwind, and return to Lexington rested,
refreshed and ready to resume studying.

/’ 
“  uote of the W€€l{:'

Inﬁrmary Nurse: “Who’s the president
of the United States?

Anonymous sorority pledge: “Elrod.”

7?

Ellis itting-tum ilﬂlri

Exeucitve Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs

Andrea Ewing

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
w& life Editors

Kathryn Mayurnik
Heather McDonald
I.iz Detter

Tarah Grant
Frances Groberg
John Stewart

Will Hardie
Hollister Hovey
Torn Wadlow

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor
Asst. Advertising Editor

Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown
Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The
Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues.The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be
in the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center,
by noon on Saturday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit
submissions for content and length. Letters, columns
and "My Views‘? do not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does not
reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@ulu.edu

Fraternity
pledgeship:
a haze of
innocence?

“Thank you sir, may I have another?”

This, of course, is the famous line uttered by Kevin
Bacon during his pledging ceremony in the movie Animal
House. It's a funny line from a funny movie. But it’s not
so funny when it's your ass on the chopping block.

As fraternity pledgeship begins this week at W&L, one
should note the commonwealth of Virginia deﬁnes haz-
ing as just about anything under the sun, up to and in-
cluding staring cross-eyed at a pledge. When I talk about
hazing, I mean beatings, forced drinking and activities of
that sort.

From a Bar Stool
Eric Swensen 98

Let’s ignore for the moment the harm, the suffering and
even the possibility of death that these types of activites
can cause. The important question is, what purpose these
activities serve. I have been under the impression (a mis-
taken one, obviously) that pledgeship is supposed to teach
pledges something about the ideals of their fraternity or
the skills needed to assume leadership positions in the fra-
ternity some day, as well as testing their character. While
beatings and forced drinking may test character in some
sort of warped way, they certainly don’t serve any of these
other purposes. After all, if these activities are so valuable,
then why will no one stand up and defend them in public?
On the other hand, they do serve as excellent training for a
career either as Evander Holyﬁeld’s sparring partner or as
Ted Kennedy’s personal assitant.

Why do these activities continue if they serve no
discemable purpose? A good person to ask (if you can
ﬁnd him) would be John Taggart, a pledge at FIJI back in
1993. When asked by Dean Manning why he had missed
English class that morning, Taggart said he overslept. When

. asked why he overslept, Taggart proceeded to descrive two

nights of forced drinking and puships at the FIJI house.
Taggart then depledged. In what I'm sure was merely a
coincidence, Taggarfs dorm room was broken into later
that year. He had stereo and computer equipment worth
more than $3,000 stolen. Unsurprisingly, he decided to
transfer at the end of the year. I don’t mean to single out
FIJI or suggest that members of their house participated in
the break-in. It is clear, though, that there is a price to pay
for speaking out.

What this boils down to is quite simple. Fraternity mem-
bers want the pledges who follow them to go through a
pledgeship as tough, if not tougher, than the one they went
through. After a year of getting your ass kicked, it's only
natural to want to return the favor. Making things “easier’-’
is simply not an option.

Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending on one’s
point of view), there is not much the administration can
do to stop hazing. A crackdown would simply drive
hazing out into the country. There are plenty of places
in Rockbridge County where no one can hear a pledge
scream in pain.

It’s doubtful that hazing will end anytime soon on
this campus. I wonder what it might take to change
students’ attitudes toward hazing. Judging from what
it took to make changes to the alcohol policy, I shud-
der at what the answer might be.

/5i"t7t"7t?T*s't—L

Fifteen Minutes of Shame

3; c.,:‘f' #1 k
Fg,ar-3239*-

L ‘M isvwru 6 m~f\.f.EL.F-
/I ‘Fz>£_ *|*\ﬁr‘Do.~JNA.

When trees Show oﬂ their battle scars

95%, ‘_',l.,'. 601'
A ,‘,,,,_,¢--ru:,t4«~J, I-°""f7’

~17 AN
gldggft’ gcfoi. A“

A-T «MIC-:5

Seinfeld’s co-stars aren’t

happy about

<scene: Jerry Seinfeld’s apartment. Herry is eating a
bowl of cereal when Jason Alexander comes in. >
Jason: Ho-HO! You've really done it now! Had to quit
the show, didn't you?

Jerry: Look, I just felt that we’ve done enough that the
show had nowhere to go but...

The IDODCY Bin
Kevin Mclvlanemin 00

Jason: Nowhere to go? Nowhere to go? Now I’ve got
nowhere to go! If it wasn’t for Seinfeld, my life would
still be nothing more than struggling actor jobs and the
occasional off-off Broadway play.

<MichaeI Richards bursts through the door. >
Michael: (quivering) -Say it ain’t so! -« - -
Jason: Oh it’s so, baby. IT"S SO!.

Michael: No! (has drastic bodily contortion, knocks
some papers oﬂ a nearby table)

Jerry: Look, Michael, it’s not so bad! I'm sure NBC
will give you your own spin-off show. “The Kramer
Hour,” or “cooking with Cosmo” or something.
Michael: (smiles) Giddy-up.

Jason: Oh sure, SURE! He’s a popular character, and
he can milk this Seinfeld gig for years, but do you know
how hard it is for a stocky bald man to get a job on TV?
Jerry: What about Dennis Franz?

Jason: Alright, Dennis Franz is the exception.

ditching NBCj

Jerry: You know Dennis Franz won an Emmy Award.
Jason: ENOUGH ABOUT DENNIS FRANZ! L
<Julia Louise Dreyfuss enters and takes a water bottle out of;
Jerry’s ﬁidge.> "
Jerry: Look, don’t bother trying to convince me to stay.‘
NBC already offered me ﬁve million dollars an episode and,‘
I turned them down. '1
Julia Louise: Get out! (pushes Jerry down)

Michael: (says something unintellible, like “yibagavawa, ”..
while having drastic body convulsions, and knocking over a3
box of crachers)

Jason: Five million dollars an episode! FIVE MILLION‘
DOLLARS? WHOA-HO! I gotta ﬁre my agent.

Julia Louise: Think about who you’re really hurting here!
<enter casts of "Suddenly Susan, ” “Caroline in the City, "
"Just Shoot Me, ” etc. > .
Brooke Shields: Please, Jeny, don’t leave Must See TV. I’m
begging you. You know our writers can’twrite comedy! With;
out your cushy lead-in ratings, we'll go the way of “The Single
Guy!”

Jerry: You know, l’ve really got to start locking my door.
Alright, everybody out! I'm taking my girlfriend to see
“Anastasia” 7
Jason: Jer, hold on, I’m begging you here! Begging! Just give
it another season. Stick with the schitck, Jerry! Stick with the
schtick! ;

Jerry: It’s over! (voice in high pitched whine)

<everyone leaves. Jerry cleans up his cereal bowl, then puts on
a cape and ﬂies out through the window into clear blue  >1

Think the books are bad? Check out their price

I once spent so much money on textbooks that the
bookstore ladies gave me a free lollipop.

I didn’t know I was going to spend that much money
that day. There had been nothing to warn me: no as-
trological signs of foreboding in my Cheerios; no pre-
dictions of devastation in the Almanac; no dead ca-
nary at the entrance to the bookstore.

Red Brick Row
David Balsley 00

I was thoroughly unaware.

I arrived at the bookstore early that day. Students
were carrying their drop/add forms from the gym. Pro-
fessors were disappearing into the C-school. I made
my way to the basement of the bookstore and had a
look around.

Not too bad, I thought. This must be the one
time this entire week when the bookstore isn’t hop-
ping busy.

I started to pick out books, double-checking my
classes, times and professors. I grabbed a book here

and there, piling them in my arms. I checked out
the book covers as I went. I opened the books to
see how many of the pages were text and how many
were pictures.

That's when I realized something was wrong.

Before too long, I was having a hard time pull-
ing books off of shelves, let alone opening them. I
didn’t have a free hand anymore. I had gathered
up the books for just two of my classes, but already
my arms were full. I was carrying a mountain of
books which could rival Mount Everest.

As I picked out the books for my two other
classes, I came to a dreadful realization: Not only
did I have to read all of these books, but I had to
pay for them, too.

Maybe it won’t be so bad, I thought as I lugged
my books upstairs. I set them down on the counter.
The cashier began to scan their bar codes.

These books couldn’t be that expensive, I
thought. A lot ofthem are small. I should be okay,
I thought.

The cashier looked up at me. “You’ve spent
more than $300 on books. Go ahead and pick out a
lollipop,” she said.

I caught my breath.

“What?” I said.

“You’ve spent more than $300 on books. You can
pick out one of those lollipops,” she said.

Three hundred, I thought. Three hundred, I thought.
I just spent three hundred dollars on books, I thought.

I never meant to spend three hundred dollars on
books. I was setting records I hadn’t intended to set.

In a stupor, without seeing what I was doing, I chose
a lollipop. The cashier smiled at me from across the
counter. She was expecting some sort of
acknowledgement for her generosity.

I didn’t say thank you. I was too dazed.

Instead, in my weakened state, I did the only thing
I could do: I charged that mother ofa bill home.

I left the bookstore with my $300 of books without
saying anything else. I never thanked the cashier, who
had been nice enough to give me a free lollipop.

So I would like to thank her now:

I don’t know if you remember me, but when I spent
more than $300 on books one semester, you let me
pick out a lollipop.

Thank you.

 ""  i ' 1 If hazing were allowed, what would you do to your pledges?

“Clean my bathroom.”

— Kathryn Frankle '00

A “Force them to take Dean
Manning’s freshman English

class.”
— Marshall Sutton ’99

“Replace their sport utility
vehical with yugos.”

— “Lisa Brennon ’99

 

PAGE 6

By David Balsley

Staff Writer

This summer, when my brother Stephen left for his first
year at the University of Iowa, my parents had not planned
on bringing him home for Thanksgiving break. When No-
vember rolled around, they changed their minds.

So began my brother’s big adventure.

My parents bought Stephen a bus ticket and a train ticket.
A bus would carry him from Iowa to Chicago, and a train
would carry him the rest of the way to Pittsburgh. The whole
trip would take an aﬁemoon and a night.

Stephen caught his bus in Iowa City on Wednesday af-
temoon without any problems. The bus ride was dull. He
read most of the way.

When my brother arrived at the bus station, he began to
look for a taxi. He did not have to look for long.

A man greeted Stephen at the street. The man sported
dreadlocks and a smile and was dressed in a t-shirt, shorts

and sandals. It was 25 degrees outside.

“Hey, man, you need a taxi?” the man said in a Jamaican
accent. “I’m the best taxi driver in Chicago. I get you where

you need to go.”

1 ahitoi Humor, Opinion andlieviews
as Word

Getting the best taxi driver in Chicago for only five bucks

travel at 60 m.p.h. through crowded downtown streets.
Stephen’s taxi raced through Chicago. His driver wove in

and out of trafﬁc, steering into oncoming lanes to get around

cars stopped at red lights. People

Stephen told the
cab driver that he
needed to get to the

C(

Drug dealers offered to get him high.

swore at the taxi as it went by.
The driver swore right back, as

_, th h’t th'flhh
train station, and he re- Female hookers propositioned him. ha(:juag1,nl(,SVtvthe‘::,r au H at e
5P°“d"'d that the ‘rip Male hookers did the same My brother huddled in the
W°“1d°°5““Y “Other ' back afraid thatthis would be his
ten dollars" My  last c,abride ever

brother said that was
a little expensive, but that he was willing to pay ﬁve bucks.
The man said, “I’ll get you there for ﬁve dollars,” and
started to load my brother’s things into the taxi. Stephen got
in the back.
The best taxi driver in Chicago, my brother discovered,
likes to drive with all the windows down. He also likes to

Suddenly, the taxi veered
sharply to the left. The driver pulled into a parking garage,
took a ticket and drove through the garage to the other side
of the block. The driver said to the parking attendant at the
exit, “I didn’t park here, man, I don’t owe you nothing,” and
pulled back onto the street and up to the train station.

The meter read exactly ﬁve dollars.

JANUARY 12, 1998

Stephen’s adventure was not over yet. He got out of the
taxi, collected his bags and his wits and walked into the train
station.

Stephen sat down on a bench, hoping to relax after his
harrowing trip. No such luck. Drug dealers offered to get
him high. Female hookers propositioned him. Male hookers
did the same.

He told them he had no cash, and they left him alone.

A little while later, my brother got up to use the restroom.
Inside, he found a lady casually eyeing the men as they came
and went through the door. She stood as though she be-
longed there, in the men’s room.

“Wow, she’s stunning,” Stephen thought.

Stephen looked again. He thought, “Wow, she’s a man.”

My brother got into Pittsburgh on Thursday morning,
and left again on Saturday evening. He took a train, then a
bus, back to Iowa.

Jackie Brown: Tarantino, Grier, Jackson, De Niro

By Alex Christensen . _

——-—-———— Phi Movie Critic
The pitch: “It’ll be like ‘Foxy

Brown’ meets ‘Get Shorty.’”

I have been hesitant in the past to
be one of the geek army that worships
Tarantino as a cinematic god who can
do no wrong. While I have seen ev-
erything he’s ever written, rewritten,
directed, or acted in, including that
episode of “The Golden Girls” in
which he played a sneering Elvis im-
personator at Sophia’s wedding, I al-
ways took pains to make it clear that it
wasn‘t like I thought he could do no
wrong. But after “Jackie Brown,”
which was preceded by the other two
Tarantino-written-and-directed ﬁlms,
“Reservoir Dogs” and “Pulp Fiction,”
I think I can safely say that when
Quentin Tarantino writes or directs
something, it’ 11 be great. If that makes
me a Tarantino geek, I’ll just smile and
pull down the brim on my Kangol ball
cap.

love letter to Pam Grier, the blaxploitation
star of the 1970s who made her ﬁrst mark
in such ﬁlms as Jack Hill’s “The Big Bird
Cage,” “Foxy Brown,” and “Coffy” (her
best ﬁlm role), along with gentler
actioners such as “Sheba Baby,” “Fri-
day Foster,” and “Scream Blacula
Scream.” She’s also known for roles in
“Fort Apache the Bronx,” “Escape to
LA,” and “Mars Attacks,” and for her
stage work, which has linked her with
the works of Sam Shepard. While some
view Grier as a B-movie action star,
which she was, she’s also a much
underappreciated actress of the high-
est caliber, and “Jackie Brown” proves
it. If Grier doesn’t win the Oscar, it’ 11 be
pure Tarantino backlash, and nothing
to do with her shattering performance.
Grier plays the title character in this
story based upon Elmore Leonard’s
novel “Rum Punch.” Tarantino has
changed the character from a white
ﬂight attendant named Jackie Burke to
our black ﬂight-attendant heroine, to
create this stellar part for Grier. The

setting has been changed as well,
from the underworld Miami of
Leonard’s works to the underworld
L.A. Tarantino portrays in his ﬁlms.

Jackie Brown works for a little air-
line called Cabo
Air, ﬂying back
and forth from
LAX to Cabo San
Lucas. Not ex-
actly the best job
for a forty-ﬁve-
year-old woman
who has been a
flight attendant
for 20 years. In
order to supple-
ment her income, Jackie has been
moving money for a gun dealer
named Ordell Robbie (Samuel L.
Jackson). When Jackie gets caught,
she and ball bondsman Max Cherry
(Robert Forster) concoct a scheme
to try to play the feds off Oredell’s
trail in order to keep Jackie out of
jail and out ofharm’s way.

  

A rough outline can’t convey the
incredible pace, humor, and depth of
character with which the story is told.
Other characters includes Louis Gara
(Robert de Niro), an ex-con who may

‘ The pitch:
“|t’ll be like
‘Foxy
Brown’

2 meets ‘Get
Shorty.”’

have seen some better days, his pot-
smoking compadre Melanie Ralston
(Bridget Fonda), Beaumont Livingston
(Chris Tucker), a hood with a craving
for chicken and waffles, and Ray
Nicolet (Michael Keaton), the ATP
agent after Ordell.

Working in the crime genre,
Tarantino has been criticized for over-

His trip back was uneventful. My parents were relieved.

the-top violence. That charge is bo-
gus. Tarantino portrays violence, but
does not lovingly on it. It’s another
element which may advance the plot,
add humor or a jolt of adrenaline,
and which always has conse-
quences. Like real-life violence (like
I hang out at gang-ﬁghts, right?). But,
Tarantino’s real talent is a Jane
Austen—like attention to manners
among the small-time hoods, dealers,
and hangers—on he portrays. Who
would imagine a ﬁlm in which the ﬁre-
works fly not over verbal gymnastics
or gunﬁghts, but over the looks Ordell
and Melanie give each other, over the
sexual ethics of Louis Gara and over
the ahnost-underground depth of emo-
tion of the love story between the
tough Max Cherry, and the even
tougher Jackie. It all works sublimely.
The characters truly live and breathe.

Of course, in addition to the true,
almost believeable perceptive writing,
the acting is what puts the characters
over. In addition to Grier for Best Ac-

need I say more?

tress, I’d like to hereby nominate Rob-
ert Forster for Best Actor for his ca-
reer-changing acting bravado; Samuel
L. Jackson and Robert de Niro for Best
Supporting Actor; and Bridget Fonda,
in her acting debut (not her movie
debut) Best Supporting Actress.
Somebody told me they were wait-
ing the whole movie for Robert de
Niro to do something. They missed
the point. They should have
watched what Louis Gara was doing
— every second he’s on screen, De
Niro is wonderfully in character.

“Jackie Brown” is one of the most
tightly and cleverly plotted ﬁlms I’ve
ever seen. The Money Exchange se-
quence takes your breath away with
its economy, intricacy and suspense.
Characters and relationships have
their own theme songs. See also witty
reference to Hitchcock’s “Shadow of
Doubt,” “Saturday Night Fever,” and
“Taxi Driver.”

See it. Don’t expect “Pulp Fiction
2.” Expect Brown. Jackie Brown.

 

“Jackie Brown” is a funny, moving

A ﬁne line separates culinary preparation from knife

juggling. At Kabuki, a small restaurant in Roanoke,

this line becomes blurred. Seated eight to a table around
, A r  a large Japa-
' nese grill, pa-
trons watch
the showman-
ship of one of
their many
fine chefs as
he prepares
the meal. Fly-
ing knives,
good drinks,
flying food
and a differ-
ent type of at-
m 0 s p h e r e
complete this
experience.
For nearly $20 a person, you get very full on some ﬁne
Japanese dishes, prepared right at your table.

We headed down there on a Friday night; it was
Andrea’s birthday and it seems we end up going to
Kabuki at least once a year for someone’s birthday.
The place hadn’t changed much since our last visit.
After we were seated, our waitress took drink orders
while we waited for other patrons to ﬁll out our table.
Andrea celebrated her twenty-first with a frozen
margarita, while Doug had a strawberry daiquiri and
Robin sipped on bourbon and coke.

On this evening we sat and dined with ﬁve people
we didn’t know. As soon as everyone was seated and
enjoying drinks, chicken broth soup and salads arrived.
We all opted for the house ginger dressing on our sal-
ads, which added a tangy, unusual ﬂavor to the typical
iceberg and cucumber fare. We all struggled valiantly
with chopsticks to complete our dining experience, and
met with moderate success.

As we finished the salads, our chef arrived and the

Colonnade Club

Mkote, Ma we a»
Exémrdcv 11119 wean.
l l‘NEW lTWOULp Be.
Ft/N WHEN THE}
WLD U9 To 65
FEALD1 Vlclové.
"P<"V"lEt<P~1t<tMo6it
wewr wé/we Esme
term ruvwi
THEN wmwatilewie

t/We MU

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
 
 

 
 

show began. He double-checked our orders before
beginning to cook. Andrea chose Samurai Steak, pre-
pared medium rare. Robin selected Hibachi Chicken,
while Doug opted for the Kabuki special, both chicken
and steak, prepared medium.

The chef commenced his act with shrimp appetiz-
ers. He ﬂipped one ofthese successfully into Andrea’s
mouth, although his attempt to toss shrimp tails
through the air into a bowl adjacent to Doug was not
as well-aimed. The chef tossed knives and various
seasoning containers through the air as he prepared
chicken, vegetables, onions, and fried rice with veg-
etables. He doused these thoroughly in oils and vari-
ous seasonings, and at one point lit the display in an
impressive and startling burst of ﬂame.

The chef saved preparation of the beef until last.
He repeated the quick moves with knives, seen in his
early maneuvers with the chicken, and prepared a por-
tion of meat to each patron’s specifications. After
completing the show, he quickly cleaned off the grill
and retreated, followed by the sounds of applause
from our table. We ﬁnished our hot entrees quickly,
enjoying well-seasoned fare with tasty dipping sauces
for the meats.

Then from the distance we heard an unusual song,
which vaguely resembled “Happy Birthday” but
seemed to be in another language. Our waitress placed
a small birthday cake before Andrea, who after mak-
ing a wish, blew out the candles. A member of the
staff even took a picture of us with the birthday cake,
and we received a card containing the photoand wish-
ing Andrea a happy birthday in Japanese, before we
left the restaurant. We ﬁnished our meal with the ex-
cellent yellow cake, topped with rich white icing, and
pronounced the evening’s expedition a success.

Kabuki Japanese Steak House is located at 3503
Franklin Road in Roanoke. There's another one in the
Market Place in Christiansburg. Reservations are sug-
gested, and the phone number is (540) 981-0222.

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 

 art. awe N
WITH THE M09!’
A'rF0aoU$ men:
90 l!\l~’—,vr‘&P~V we laeeiuc
Hell BUTT, l‘i'Dl/D
tree aware alvvtv

wt wear; oHeAP awe.
eueaziao ?—léH'l‘Tl'tWl?,
%UT\Fiev1?«E no MT

  

WANT FUN
WITHYOUR
FOOD? Watch
cheﬁs cook your
dinner in front of
you. Robin, Doug,
and Andrea enjoy
dinner at the
Kabuki Japanese
Steak House.
Dinners range in
price from $1 1-22.

kl think I’m turning Japanese; I really think so

3 it
I


I{ ‘

A different type
of atmosphere.

-———~;;

are

Auditorium 51¢ 8 p.m. Lenfest Series presents the Johnny

Griffin Quartet $19? TUESDAY 51¢ 7 p.m. Women’s B-
ball vs. Virginia Wesleyan 31¢ 7 p.m. Men’s & Women’s

Swimming at the Twombly Pool #1’? WEDNESDAY $3?
4 p.m. Department Heads Meeting §>I¢ 7 p.m. Men’s B—ball

vs. Lynchburg :93? THURSDAY #1‘? 7 p.m. Woman’s B-
ball vs. Randolph—Macon ‘>145 7 p.m. Wrestling vs. Ander-

 

MONDAY 5% Law School

Spring Semester Starts 51¢ 7
p.m. Men’s B—Ball vs.
Dickinson 1%? 7 p.m. “Window
to Paris” —— a film in Northen

son in Doremus Gym *1‘: 7:30 p.m. State of the Dicipline
Lecture Series with Professor Marc Conner in Northen

Auditorium 333? 8 p.m. Senior Recital featuring Erik Christ
and the W&L Chamber Singers 1%‘ FRIDAY 35‘? 7:30
p.m. Film Society shows “Underground” in the Trouba-

dour 3>I¢ SATURDAY *5 7:30 p.m. “Underground”

WEN Tthaee \IvP<e Tine
0t\’<??- LHILE 6- -68 who
P¢WP<Lb"l TOLD ME ‘ME
WA-9 V-EALM 6009??! '
wm\ mute eel/\MA
gins. 1 iuerrow
1-letZ -riwétleo EETTER
RAVE l-V611 U17’: 40176?
t»Luer> T?7'll'l‘5lP— 
8écA1/9E’Wl€?E wAéN T
A 6No\N8ALU9 NW5?
(N WELL ‘ll'l’l°ﬂ‘ WED
ewe tree A an.

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

By Hollister Hovey

 
 
 
 
 
  
    

in MK 6017, "lvu
atciutltvaetmwéé
TD 0VP- Fl/‘2llE¢"77.
m2~ma\iuiaeiZ—
Tlhzl/\ t\lEVE¢Tl>l«l>“
U9 TD 98 Wlblvuﬁz...
new 6P<io’§}> BE
'VlVl°vclov9.

 

\1

Vi

I

 

   

W&L|FE§‘

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 11

Sanders
vacates
Newcomb,
goes home

(D A notice posted on Professor
Sanders door told students if they
wanted to talk with him, he’d “be
in front of Newcomb Hall at 11
a.m. on most week days.”

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

NEWS EDITOR

“For Rent: Ph.D will teach for food,” reads the black
and ﬂuorescent orange sign on Professor of History 1.
Taylor Sanders’ door. A closer look reveals a small, type-
written note below, implying that the outside of his door
is all anyone is going to see of Sanders’ office this term.

The note outside his door states that he will be work-
ing at his house for the remainder of the term and will not
continue his regular office hours. Sanders is also drop-
ping his advisees. ‘

“I request that you DO NOT disturb me there (at
home),” he states. He will be outside Newcomb Hall
around 11 a.m. on “most week days,” he wrote in the
note. “As of Jan. 12, I will no longer serve as an advisor
 I hope this change does not inconvenience you.”

Jan. 12 also marked the date of Washington and Lee’s
new smoking policy, which banned smoking in all univer-
sity buildings, with the exception of the smoking rooms in
the library. The policy change greatly affected faculty mem-
bers who, like Sanders, customarily smoked in their oﬁices.

Sanders refused to comment on whether he is work-
ing at home because of the new smoking policy.

“I think that it (the note) speaks for itself,” he said.

Laurent Boetsch, Dean of the College, was not aware
of Sanders’ decision.

“I don’t know how to react,” Boetsch said. He
would like to reserve comment until after he speaks
with Sanders.

Boetsch was unclear about any action the university
might take against Sanders or whether professors need to
have a certain number of office hours per week.

“We ask professors to post office hours,” Boetsch said.
“It appears that Professor Sanders has posted his as 11
a.m. every day outside Newcomb Hall.”

Senior Rust Cadwallader, who has taken many of Sand-

Unviversity Scholars: Q)

Who are they? What |—

do they do?
The Phi

M
O

 

Men’s Basketball:
The boys just finished the
week 2-1 by beating
Dickinson and Lynchburg —

N JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBHAHV
ASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
IEXINGTON, VA 24450

awarded roles in

investigates. n_ find out the details. year’s shows.
PAGES PAGE 7 pAGE 3
3&4 m

 

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

Seven ofieA—§Ct%s,32,%998
chances to win. Discover

the lucky students

this

 

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Pcnnit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
JANUARY 19, 1998

ZEUS—— KING
OFALL DOGS

Emily Framptom, senior,
and John Welford, junior

are co-owners of Zeus. The

chocolate labrador arrived
with F ramptom after
Christmas Break. The
puppy was a present to
herself Zeus lives at
Welford ’s house on Route
60 because F ramptom ’s
landlord doesn '2‘ allow
pets. F ramptom spends
more than eight hours a
day with Zeus, who weighs
1 1 pounds. She purchased
the labrador for $200 in
Kentucky. Welford and

F ramptom are still
deciding who Zeus will live
with after graduation.
Pnoro COURTESY or ERICA
Pelletier

ers’ classes, would not comment on his decision.

“He is just a great guy,” Cadwallader said. “His lectures
are very engrossing.”

B.J. Walker, a junior who is in a class of Sanders’ this
term, said that Sanders has cancelled two of their papers,
but that this change has nothing to do with Saunders’ move
to his house.

“I think that it has more to do with the fact that there are

Sprinkler sprays Kappa Sig

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

AssT. NEWS EDITOR

A fire alarm went off on the third
ﬂoor of the Kappa Sigma house on
Friday, Jan. 16, activating the sprin-
kler system in senior Eric Ridler’s
room.

All the brothers had been down-
stairs eating lunch at the time of the
sprinkler activation.

“Someone yelled downstairs,
‘Hey Ridler! Your sprinkler’s on!’
I thought they were joking,” said
Ridler.

When he went upstairs, there
were three-and-a-half inches of wa-
ter on the ﬂoor of his room. No one
knows why the ﬁre alarm went off.

“I just got my phone working to-
day,” said Ridler.

The damage is considered exten-
sive, although there is no" monetary
estimate on the damage yet.

The water then leaked down to
the second ﬂoor, causing minor
damage.

Although much of the damage s
has since been fixed, there are

problems with the electrical wiring.
“The lights go on and offsomtimes,”
said sophomore Kappa Sigma Eric
Englebart.

W&L’s deductible for damage to
the house is $5,000, and Ridler says
that his personal homeowner’s insur-
ance will most likely pay for the rest.

“It really sucks,” said Ridler. “I’m
hoping to get some of my stuff back
in my room early this week, but it I
don’t know ifI can plug stuffin yet.”

His belongings are still drying and
strewn throughout the house.

One small step for smokers

BY WILL HARDIE
COPY EDITOR

When faculty smokers were turned
out into the cold last week, one campus
smoking haunt got a surprise reprieve.
Rather than closing as expected, the li-
brary smoking rooms will remain open
indefinitely. Strong pressure from
smokers who used the rooms helped
win over the library staff.

Some professors who used to smoke
in their offices are now taking advan-
tage of the library smoking lounges, due
to the ban on all classroom and admin-
istrative building smoking that was
implemented Jan. 12.

“I see a lot of professors during the
day now, popping in and out to have a
cigarette,” smoking lounge resident
Vanessa Hall said. “I’m glad that they
didn’t close the smoking lounges-they

are the only place you can smoke on

campus now.”
In a letter circulated to all students
Jan. 9, President John Elrod said, “This

revised policy is prompted by the
importance ofproviding a healthy
environment for all members of
this community.”

The library was allowed to de-
cide its own policy.

During the smoking policy con-
sultation period in November,
Head Librarian Barbara Brown
implied that the smoking study and
the two smoking lounges were go-
ing to close, even though the li-
brary was not included in the pro-
posed policy change.

“It’s not clear yet what will hap-
pen, but it is the staffs view that
maybe the time has come to de-
clare this a nonsmoking building,”
Brown said Nov. 15.

Since then, Brown and her staff
have reconsidered their position.
Brown said Wednesday that she
had been surprised by the degree
of opposition to the closures.

“I did hear from some students

about what was going to happen
if we didn’t have any smoking
space, and I listened to that,” she
said. “I was worried about the is-
sue of library users walking
through a haze of smokers to get
in. And smokers standing at the
side doors and propping them
open is not good from a security
point of view.”

All ofthese issues were aired,
arguments then seemed then to be
in favor of closing the smoking
rooms. The main concern was
smoke leaking out ofthe lounges
and affecting non-smokers. But
smokers’ recent protests helped
sway the balance.

“This is a facility that needs to
be used by everybody,” said
Brown. She decided that ifit was
possible to accommodate smok-
ers without bothering nonsmok-
-ers, the current arrangement
should remain.

a lot more students than he expected in his classes this term,
and he didn’t have time to grade all of them,” said Walker.

Walker believes that the smoking policy is unfair.

“I don’t smoke, so I think its kind of annoying,” Walker
said. “But, I don’t think they should prevent him from smok-
ing in his ofﬂce. He’s not hurting anyone.”

—Liz Detter, Andrea Ewing and Courtney Miller con-
tributed to this article.

Another one bites the dust

The first female to enroll officially at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute has withdrawn from the school.

The Associated Press reported Sat. that Beth Hogan
of Junction, Ore., dropped out of school Friday because
VMI’s rigorous testing of its freshmen was not for her.

Hogan went to VMI with hopes of becoming a Navy
pilot, VMI spokesman Michael Strickler said Saturday.

Disaster Strikes Graham-Lees:
F ly i n g s o u p
cans damage
dormitory

BY WILL HARDIE

COPY EDITOR

“There was soup everywhere -— all over the walls, all
over the ﬂoor. It wasjust incredible,” said security guard
Scott “Wild Irishman” Scott Rowe.

Around midnight Saturday Rowe stumbled across an
overexcited freshman hurling cans of Campbell’s veg-
etable soup against the walls on the first ﬂoor of Graham
Lees dormitory. “There was a crowd gathered around him,
and they were all shouting, ‘go! go!‘,” said Rowe.

Rowe said he made the freshman wipe up the mess
with his own towel.

Last weekend’s fraternity pledgeship celebrations were
associated with a spate of property damage and vandal-
ism around the university, for which Dean ofthe Fresh-
man Program Dennis Manning said, “there is no excuse.”

“lt was mindless exuberance. There is no excuse for it
at all and we have no tolerance for it as a community,”
Manning said.

Graham-Lees was at the epicenter ofthe damage. On
Friday night, rampaging freshmen sprayed shaving foam
on the walls of first ﬂoor corridors, and stampeded through

 SEE SOUP PAGE 2

Captive Nations Week:
Contact asks

ex-Panther
to lecture

BY WILL HARDIE
COPY EDITOR
Once a leftist freedom ﬁghter, the man who later de-

nounced communism as “humanity’s vomit. Wipe it out!”
will speak at Washington and Lee.

Ex—Black Panther and hijacker Anthony Bryant will open
W&L’s Captive Nations week on Thursday.

Originally a tough left-wing freedom fighter, Bryant is
now a human rights activist, and ranks among Fidel Castro’s
most vehement critics.

Bryant graduated from three of the nation’s toughest peni-
tentiaries, to become a senior officer in the Black Panthers
by 1969. At the time he joined the Black Panthers, he had a
rap sheet “three feet long” for armed robbery and several
other felonies. ’

On March 5, 1969, he hijacked a ﬂight to Cuba, intend-
ing to solicit Castro’s support for his race war. But he care-
lessly robbed an undercover Cuban secret service officer on
the ﬂight, and was ﬂung into jail as soon as he touched down.

Having spent twelve years in unspeakable conditions, sub-
jected to torture, a year in solitary and for the rest of his time
consigned to a 4-by-8-foot cell, Bryant quickly renounced
his revolutionary beliefs.

On return to the United States in 1982, he told reporters,
“I am deliriously happy. The United States is the greatest
country in the world!”

Since 1992, he has led several military operations against
Cuba. In 1997 he denounced violence and began a peaceful
political and propaganda campaign in Miami and is consid-
ered to be a “true American hero” by Miami’s Cuban com-
munity and others.

Bryant is now a columnist for several Miami newspa-
pers, works to free Cuban prisoners and is active in local
politics.

Bryant will speak in the Northen Auditorium at 7.30 p.m.
on Thursday Jan. 22. The series of speeches will continue
next week with anti-subversion exert Morgan Norval on
Tuesday night, and Chinese dissident Hairy Woo on Thurs-
day. '

Congress established Captive Nations Week in 1959;
W&L will observe it in January rather than in its traditional
June, which would be outside term time.

 

PAGE 2

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   

BY ERIN MORORONY

 

STAFF WRITER
If you are a fratemity boy who loves
pizza and is interested in a free band
party for your fraternity, Domino’s is
sponsoring a contest just for you.
Domino’s is hosting a ten-day fra-
ternity challenge. The fraternity that
orders the most pizzas will get the
chance to have a party with The Hose,
a band popular in Roanoke and neigh-
boring states, Domino’s Marketing

news
Pizza: food for
gods, frat boys

JANUARY 19, 1998

Owl],” said Siegel. “Wayne is a great
guy and we thought that we could use
the contest to help him out, too.”

The contest began this Friday and
concludes at midnight on Superbowl
Sunday. You can get an update on how
your fraternity is doing at the Interfra-
temity Council meeting Jan. 19 or by
calling Domino’s either before noon
Jan. 23 or right before the Superbowl
kickoff Jan.25. Winners will be an-
nounced at the IFC meeting on Jan

 
  

   
 

  

  

Psijunior John McAllister. “Now that
we could get a free band, you can be
sure that I’m going to eat Domino’s
even more.”

Siegel said that W&L fraternity
members are some of Domino’s best
buyers. Having the contest would show
the appreciation of Domino’s, while at
the same time boosting pizza sales.

“Fratemity boys are great custom-
ers,” said Siegel. “The FIJIs sometimes
manage to clean us out of pizzas on the
weekends. Our sales to fraternities are

just as high as our sales to hotels.”

To~take part in the contest, just or-
der from the fraternity house phone to
receive a one pizza credit. Domino’s
has created a system that automatically
logs the time and origin of orders.

For those who want the band, but
don’t want to put on too many pizza
pounds, make a trip to Night Owl. For
every CD or tape purchased, you can
earn an additional two points. If you
really want to win this contest, buy The
Hose CD or tape and earn a whopping
four points.

“We know that the new Crossroads
music store is stiff competition for

Wayne [Raynal, the owner of Night

Be aPart of 1.:

Become a Trained Peer Health Educator
on Health and Wellness Issues

Alcohol

Exercise

Nutrition

Mental Health

Sexuality ~
Stress Management

Make a Difference at W 85 L

Pie/e up an appiieationform and sign-upfbr
an interview by Tuesday, fanuary 27, at the

University Center in front of Carol Calkins’ oﬂiee
Training begins Tuesday, February 24.

Questions?

Call the Health Education Office

@ 462-4501

    
    

Manager Jennifer Siegel said. 26.

siege] presented her idea to the In- Domino’s expects to sell at least
terfratemity ‘ one hun-
Council  __ dred piz-
during last !}azr=sm=a’H‘2_,__gv_ _ o,t.mg;3g_<m‘;.;.«.« zas dur-
Monday ’ s ﬁsminvk Pizza .’_l{:jmsna‘s mm ing the
meeting. week. If
Recogniz— the con-
ing that the test goes
contest is a w e l 1 ,
no-lose situ- no-gig. ' raw Siegel in-
ation, IFC ‘“*:!€'f"°’*'f7’5'! tends to
members  p l a n
enthusiasti- ,- __ ’ a_,,,,,,,,.:f,1;’;j,“;,A other ac-
cally ap- " ..M3»o»i~%r¥»‘sr*ir.~.~ tivities or
proved the ”"”'“"°“'""’ competi-
ideas. tions for

“I love Domino’s,” said Phi Kappa Spring Term.

“We would like to get sororities in-
volved with some type of Domino’s
contest, but I realize that might be im-
possible,” said Siegel.

“For some reason people seem to
think it’s just great for guys to pig out
on pizza, but it’s not so great for girls

thsoup

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

the third and fourth floors, overtum-
ing all the trash cans. Someone also
broke all the covers off the vents out-
side the laundry room, and on Satur-
day trespassers damaged the back gate
of the Liberty Hall ruins.

Chief of Security Michael Young
is convinced the incidents were related
to drinking at fraternity parties. “There
is no doubt in my mind,” he said.

Those perpetrators who have been
identiﬁed, including some upperclass-
men, have met with the Deans and have
been referred to the Student Judicial
Council for disciplinary proceedings.
Possible punishments include proba-
tion and a ﬁne of 150 percent of the
value of the damage caused.

 

W&L CELEBRATES GERSHWIN’S

100TH BIRTHDAY WITH JAN. 20 CONCERT

The W&L music faculty and friends will present a musical celebration of George
Gershwin’s 100th birthday at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Jan 20 in the Lenfest Center.

Some of the featured pieces include a duet version of the Three Preludes performed by
Timothy Gaylard and Shuko Watanabe; “Walking the Dog” performed by Barry Kolman,
clarinet, and Watanabe, piano; and “Bidin’ My Time,” sung by Scott Williamson, Gordon
Spice, Robe Mish and Al Gordon.

The performance is open to the public, free of charge.

CAPT I VE NATIONS WEEK FEATURES SPEAKERS

The Contact Committee is hosting three speakers during Captive Nations Week. An-
thony Bryant will speak on Monday, Jan. 22, Morgan Norval on Tuesday Jan. 27, and Harry
Wu on Thursday, Jan 29. All lectures will be held in Northen Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.

Anthony Bryant was a former Black Panther who advocated violence to overthrow Fidel
Castro’s regime in Cuba. Now he focuses on freeing Cuban prisoners and has begun a trust
fund for the jobless.

Morgan Norval is considered an expert on terrorism and guerilla warfare; he has pub-
lished seven books on the subject. He is also the Executive Director of the Selous Founda-
tion, a Washington, D.C. think tank which studies unconventional warfare, terrorism and
subversion. His lecture is titled, “The Triumph of Disorder.”

Harry Wu is a Chinese dissident who was denounced by the Communist Party in 1956 as
a 19-year-old college student who criticized communism during the Hundred Flowers Cam-
paign. After spending the next 19 years in a labor camp, he obtained his visa and came to
the United States. Wu is currently the director of the Laogai Research foundation, and has
testiﬁed before congressional committees concerning human rights violations in China. His
lecture is titled, “China’s War on Human Rights.”

PIANIST CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR TO PERFORM

Christopher Taylor will perform Saturday, Jan. 24, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. He is
the ﬁrst American since 1981 to reach the ﬁnals in the Van Clibum lntemational Piano
Competition, and went on to win the Bronze Medal. In April 1996, he received an Avery
Fisher Career Grant.

The concert is open to the public free of charge. A reception will follow.

FILM SOCIETY PRESENTS “MICROCOSMOS”

“Microcosmos,” a French ﬁlm directed by Claude Nuridsany and Marie Perennou, will
be shown Friday and Saturday, Jan. 24 and 25, in the Troubador Theater. The ﬁlm is in
French with English subtitles.

Described as a documentary about the insect world, “Microcosmos” is also a poetic ﬁlm.
Though at times shockingly violent, it shows the comic and tragic dimensions of animal
life.

There is no charge for admission.

J OURNALIST, AUTHOR TO LECTURE AT W&L

Slavenka Drakulik, a Quinlan lntemational Scholar at Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege, will speak. on Monday, Jan. 26 at 7 p.m. in duPont Auditorium. She will lecture on
“The Writer and War.” Drakulic is a native of Croatia, and is a journalist and novelist
whose work has been published in The Nation, The New Republic, The New York Times, The
Los Angeles Times and The New York Review of Books.

The public is invited to attend.

—Compiled by Heather McDonald

Blair Beach
Stephanie Bianco
Carly Blakelock
Julie Boncarosky
Amy Calce
Christina Campbell Elizabeth Meyers
Katherine Carter
Vanessa Chen
Catherine Clark
Erin Ferguson
Laura Green
Catherine Harding
Nicole Hartley
Victoria Hays
Anne Hazelett
Sarah Heatherington
Georgiana Hickam

Chi Omega Congratulates its

1998 Pledge Class

Elizabeth Holleman
Lauren Ivanick

Christina Lollar
Christine Metzger

Jessica Parillo

Christine Philips
Ann Richard
Susan Slim ,
Allison Smith
Sarah Walters
Melissa Williams
Mary Woodaard
Alexis Yee Garcia

Jenny Anne Kneisal

Mary Evelyn Payne

7

I

I

 

Q

JANUARY 19, 1998

PAGE 3

SHENANDOAH

The Washington and Lee University Review

Smith creates nationally
acclaimed literary journal

BY FRICA Paossiza

STAFF \lVRl'lER

R.T. Smith can relax. Through the window, he can see

Virginia Military Institute and the mountains behind
it. Birds perch on the windowsill to munch on the birdseed
he provides. All seems very right with the world.

“I love thisjob and I love Lexington,” he said. “I got

In a comfortable office over the Troubadour Theater,

: tired ofteaching.”

Smith, who taught creative writing and literature at

“Auburn University for 19 years, is the editor of

Shenandoah, the literary magazine maintained

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

by Washington and Lee. Smith publishes the magazine
four times a year, still finding enough hours in the day to
pursue his own writing. That writing, incidentally, earned
him a nomination for a Pulitzer Prize for poetry last year.

Smith never publishes his own work in
Shenandoah, and he doesn’t need to: the magazine re-
ceives hundreds of submissions for every issue. Most
of the writers send in their work unsolicited, though
some are commissioned to write for him. He collects
the three types of writing—poetry, fiction, and essay —
and shapes them into an elegant publication, complete
with a colorful cover.

“The cover art comes from lesser-known artists or
lesser-known paintings,” he said. The cover usually has
something to do with the contents of the magazine, but
sometimes, the painting isjust a beautiful piece deserving
ofa place. Again, some art is solicited, some is not. All of
it, however, means something to Smith.

“You see ihe one with the hummingbirds?” he asked,
pointing to an older copy of the magazine with a cover
picture of hummingbirds against a ﬂowery background.
“The same artist did the cover art of [winter l997’s issue].”
He held up a winter 1997 issue, which indeed fea-
tured a similar painting, this one with scarlet birds.
The artist, Walter Inglis Anderson, impressed
Smith, though Anderson is not as well known as
many other contemporary artists.

The contents of Shenandoah mean as much
to Smith as the cover. He said that the magazine
prints more poems than anything else, but the
majority ofspace is dedicated to prose. A steady
flow of contributed work is accepted and consid-
ered for two to four months before publication.
He has to reject most ofthe contributions, but for
those he keeps, the writer is paid. Poetry pays
$2.50/line, while prose pays $25/page.

Good writers might even make more money
than that, Smith said. The magazine offers three
awards, one for each genre, every year. The win-
ners from the previous year select the winners for

the current year, an arrangement that Smith

wouldn’t change. ‘ ' I ' ‘

“Having to choose a winner, to me, is like
having to choose a favorite child,” he said.

When winners are chosen, they receive award
money. Poetry and essay winners receive $500,
while the fiction winner receives $1,000. The prize money
comes from endowed funds at W&L. The winners receive

IN A SEC LUDED OFFICE ABOVE TROUBADOUR THEATER Shenandoah Editor R. T. Smith reviews submissions
from writers around the world and creates one of the nation ’s top literary journals. 1‘/0I.l.IS’1I:‘R HoVI5i'/R/.v(;-711M PHI

more than money, though: they receive recognition and
honor among the magazines subscribers, of whom there
are many.

“We have about 1,200 subscribers,” Smith said.
When other sales are added to that number, the total
copies sold each season is about 1,500. The number of
sales and the vast number of submissions keep Smith
and his coworkers busy. In the office, he has a manag-
ing editor, a work-study, and an intern. Senior Robin
Seaton was his intern last term.

“It’s a fairly competitive internship,” she said.
Smith offers the three-credit internship though the
W&L English department and gives the job to one
student per term. The student works about eight
hours each week, keeps a journal, and receives a
grade. Seaton got an A.

“I worked on the webpage, did general projects,
learned how to tell what’s good from what’s bad in the
submissions,” Seaton said. “I learned a lot.”

Smith, she said, was fun to work with, although he
was a quiet person. She plans to study English at gradu-
ate school, and this internship was thefirst job of this
caliber she has done.

The help ofhis staffisn’t the only thing Smith enjoys
about his job.

“I have a good sense of autonomy,” he said. “I
keep my own schedule.” He manages to spend one to
two hours each day working on his own writing. His

eeling intellectually stifled?

University Scholars offers students relief  

BYLIZDEITER

\Y/&LirE EDITOR

hat is it and why is it here? At the be-
ginning of the term, many freshmen
and sophomores received an invitation
via e-mail to apply to the enigmatic Uni-
versity Scholars program. Some call
the honors program elite; others call it elitist.

University Scholars consists of 72 members, chosen by
faculty and students. Freshmen and sophomores with a
cumulative GPA of3.5 at the end offall term are eligible for
the program. Scholars and faculty members conduct inter-
views to determine which 18 students to admit. When
choosing the new members, interviewers look for moti-
vated students with a drive to learn.

“Intellectual curiosity wouldlbe high on the list [ofcri-
teria for selection],” said Professor John Lambeth, Direc-
tor ofthe University Scholars program. “All ofthese stu-
dents are smart; it’s not like we’re trying to pick out the
smartest ofthe smart.”

In order to graduate as a University Scholar, students
are required to take a humanities, a social science and a
natural science seminar, write an honors thesis and gradu-
ate with a cumulative GPA of 3.25. University Scholars
courses are also open to a limited number of other stu-
dents. Students who have taken two seminars with a grade
ofB or above and who meet the 3.5 GPA requirement may
apply tojoin the program.

Senior Jennifer Buckey liked the opportunity as a Uni-
versity Scholar to take upper-level courses to fill General
Education requirements, and called the seminars some of
the most “amazing” courses that she has taken at W&L.

“Their aim is far-reaching,” said Buckey. “The profes-
sors teach in broader terms, and as a science major, some
ofthese courses have helped me keep my writing ability.”

“I’ve never had a class before where we watched “Mary
Poppins” or “Terminator,” said Roshni Nirody, sophomore,
about her University Scholars seminar fall term.

Nirody took “Economic Themes in Literature and Film”
to fill the social science seminar requirement.

Professor Arthur Goldsmith used slightly unconven-
tional curriculum to challenge the class to examine socio-
economic perceptions in the aim of increasing students’
economic literacy.

Both students and professor enjoyed the results im-
mensely. “University Scholars is an ideal teaching situa-
tion,” said Goldsmith. “Students come to class with differ-
ent skills and interests. Put them together and they have

really interesting conversations. I enjoyed the breadth of
the conversations we had in class and I learned a lot from
them.”

University Scholars and professors cite the interdisci-
plinary nature of the courses and the variety of majors
represented by students as the main strengths of this
unique program.

Lambeth said that University Scholars provides pro-
fessors with an opportunity to experiment with new topics
of interest and new methods of teaching.

The classes are designed to be demanding and often
have heavier-than-normal workloads in an effort to chal-
lenge students. It can be difficult for some students to
fulfill all of the requirements. Lambeth said that although
each class has 18 Scholars, only around 12 or 13 typically

(6

I’ve never had a class
before where we
watched “Mary Poppins”
or “Terminator.”

—R0shni Nirody

77

graduate with the words “University Scholar” stamped
across their diplomas.

One University Scholar, speaking under the condition
of anonymity, expressed concern that it can be especially
difficult for science majors to write theses.

“In the coming years I hope to do something so that the
program might be a little bit more friendly toward science
majors,” said the Scholar. “I think that the new leaders of
the program would be willing to work on this.”

In addition to the seminars, the University Scholars pro-
gram has also organized several lectures on campus and
given Scholars the opportunity to meet visiting lecturers.

The “State of the Discipline” lectures were prompted
by Scholars’ desire to learn about W&L professors’ re-
search. Last week, the series featured Marc Connor, assis-
tant professor of English; on Feb. 5, assistant professor of
philosophy Jack Wilson will speak.

“I like the new direction that the program is going in,"
said Sara McCrone, junior. “They’re having lots of new

ideas about in-
volvement, with
going to dinner
with speakers on
campus and plans
to renovate the

Red House.”
Goldsmith and
Lambeth ex-

pressed the hope
that the program
stimulates the “life of
the mind” of students
both in and out of the class-
room.

“Students can beneﬁt from being in contact with other
intellectually curious students,” said Lambeth. “A lot of
scholars are people who like to talk about ideas. They are
not the kind of people who worry about whether they are
going to look like nerds for talking in class.”

The University Scholars are involved in choosing new
members and reviewing proposals for upcoming seminars.
The group has a president, vice-president, secretary and
several committees. The University Scholars common
rooms in the Red House provide a meeting place for the
group. Lambeth believes that University Scholars facili-
tates new friendships and contacts for students.

According to Lambeth, a study several years ago re-
vealed that a higher percentage of University Scholars go
on to graduate study and receive academic fellowships
than among the student body at large.

However, some question the need for a university schol-
ars program. Wayne Dymacek, Professor ofMathem atics,
has opposed the program on philosophical grounds since
its inception.

“I don’t think that labeling a group of people as Schol-
ars — when I would think that all ofmy students are schol-
ars —— is a good idea,” he said.

On the other hand, some believe the group to be truly
special.

“I was inspired by working with these students," said
Goldsmith. “A lot ofthe kids from this program are going
to go on and make a mark in their communities They are
very creative and talented men and women.”

Applications are due by Jan. 29. Applicants must sub-
mit an essay and a letter of recommendation from a profes-
sor to be considered. Interviews will be conducted during
the first week of February.

    
  

work is printed in The Georgia Review, The Gettysburg
Review, and Chelsea, all literary magazines.

W&L, too, appeals to him. He loves Lee Chapel, he
said, and he loves to bring visitors there.

“They’re always astonished,” he said, because of a
powerful aura in the building, a feeling that overwhelms
him every time he goes inside. He said that he has always
been a fan of Robert E. Lee.

He also makes frequent trips to Ireland. He has roots
there, but more than that, he appreciates the Irish culture
and literary style.

“I have an abiding interest — as both writer and critic
—~ in Irish literature,” he said. “Poetry, which in the States
is usually considered at best irrelevant to ‘real life’ and at
worst a self—involved perversity, still plays a vital role in
the life of the community over there.”

But despite his travels and his other interests, Smith
has no plans to leave Lexington. He has found a niche,
comfortably settled into the editor’s chair at Shenandoah.
He even has plans for the future of the magazine.

“I’d like to put art inside Shenandoah,” he said.
“I’d also like a contest with a lighter focus, like an imi-
tation Poe contest.”

Smith’s ideas for the future ofthe magazine, com-
bined with his success in his first two—and-a—half years
as editor, make him the best man for thejob. With luck,
W&L will have Smith in the community for many more
years to come.

Gershwin revival
features faculty

BY I.aYLA,CusiER
-—-——- STAFF Wanna,

The Washington
and Lee Music Depart-
ment will present “An
Evening of Gershwin”
on Tuesday, Jan. 20 at 8

‘ p.m. inthe Lenfest Cen-
ter. The concert is in
honor of the 100th armi-
versary of American
composer George
Gershwin’s birth.

All performances will be done by the music fac-
ulty. Some highlights of the concert include a “bar-
ber-shop” quartet, a duet anangement of Gershwin’s
three preludes and familiar vocal selections. The
peculiar vaudeville-style performance will also in-
clude “an unusual stage set-up,” said music profes-
sor Dr. Timothy Gaylard.

Gershwin was born in Brooklyn, N.Y., where
he first learned to play piano by car. He began
his career in his late teens, and reached fame in
the 1920s. _

Gershwin oﬁen collaborated with his brother,
Ira, for song lyrics. The two wrote many famous
musicals, such as “Lady Be Good,” “Oh, Kay! ,” and
“Funny Face.”

Gershwin’s talent was not limited to Broad-
way, but ranged to include opera and classical
works. In 1935, Gershwin wrote “Porgy and
Bess,” the first opera with a black cast. The op-
era was later adapted into a musical. But perhaps
most famous of his compositions is “Rhapsody
in Blue,” an instrumental piece that combined jazz
and classical elements.

Gershwin’s tunes are well-known favorites,
and have been preformed by such artists as
Harry Connick, Peter Nero, the Canadian Brass
and Dave Grusin.

Just two years after writing “Porgy and Bess,”
Gershwin died of a brain tumor. But during his
short life, he had made a lasting impression on
the music world.

Since Gershwin was such a diversely talented
composer, “An Evening with Gershwin” this
Tuesday is sure to be a combination of all types
of American music, enjoyable for even the most
critical audience.

 

GERSHWIN.

 

 

PAGE 4

 

Music major Erik

Christ’s senior compo-
sition recital took the spotlight
at the Lenfest center Thursday
night. The performance com—
prised his Requiem Mass and a
more casual second half with
Christ at the piano singing six
songs that he composed.

“The concert was very
successful,” said Dr.Gordon
Spice, head ofthe music
department and conductor of
the Requiem Mass. “A lot of
people put a lot of work into it.”

The Washington and Lee
chamber singers and a string
ensemble began rehearsals for
the Requiem Mass two weeks
ago, and Christ thought their

performances were remarkable.

In addition, Gary Wertman, a
high school friend of Christ,
played guitar and sang
backup for a song in the
second half.

Christ, who worked on the
mass from May to November, is

By Charlotte Graham and Kelley Totten
— Staff Writers

0\f\Q

familiar with the text of
the Roman Catholic Mass, having
completed twelve years of catholic
school.

“I chose the funeral Mass as
the basis of my senior project
because I view this recital as the
culmination of my college career,”
Christ said in the program notes.
The textjuxtaposes the feelings of
loss and hope that accompany not
only funerals, but also graduation.

The difference between the
first and second halves of the
concert was like the difference
between church and a smoking
lounge. The choir and string
players peeled away leaving Christ
alone at the piano, literally with a
martini and an ashtray for the
occasional cigarette. Red and blue
lights caught the smoke, and the
ambiance was that of a smoky bar
around closing time.

“Ultimately, ifI had my way,
I’d be a rock star,” said Christ,
who will graduate in June with
degrees in music composition and
mass communication.

Two friends support him in that.

“He’s an awesome guy,”
A a r 0 n Michalove said.

W&life

Hints of Mozart, Billy Joel in Christ’s senior recital

“Sometimes at three in the

morning he would drag me up to the
fourth floor of duPont and play his
latest song. Even though they make
you want to cry, they always make
you feel better.”

Jamie Kalista, who sings with
Christ in General Admission, was
with him and some alumni when
Christ played several of his songs.
“They asked him who wrote the
songs and were impressed when he
said that he did.”

But his biggest supporter is his
mother, Donna Christ. “He was in
the boys’ choir at eight; in high
school, he was into drama, thejazz
band, and chorus. He has always
loved performing, and he has
always loved singing.”

As far as composing the Mass,
“I wanted to write something that
would show offmy abilities stylisti-
cally and technically,” Christ said,
“but at the same time, something
that I personally wouldn’t mind
listening to.”

The Requiem Mass combined

JANUARY 19, 1998

tradition with a
contemporary pop style.

“There are some very
effective moments in the
composition when a nice
degree of unity between
the text and the music is
reached,” Spice said.

Several peers commented.
“It was exciting to play a piece
written by a fellow music major,”
said Rebecca Bagdonas, a
violinist for the concert. “The
Mass has been done by so
many composers before, so it
was fascinating to see what one
of my peers did with the text.”

Christ will graduate in June
and hopes to work in the record
industry. He will continue
composing, but will not risk a
career in songwriting at the
present.

“I can’t thank all the people
involved enough,” said Christ.
“They were all instrumental in
getting it done; without them, it
never would have happened.”

Guess who? E—mail the correct names of these faculty members to phi@wlu.edu by 12 a.m. Tues. to be eligible
for a random drawing. The winner will receive an ice cream sundae from Sweet Things, complements of The Phi.

Got a HOT news tip? Call 462-4060

ter You Hit

0
opes.

When you're ready for a study

break, head for Massanutten.

Because College Days are back

during January and February.
Every Wednesday and Friday
from 12:30 to 10:00 p.m. you can
get $18 ski and snowboard lift tickets
and $13 rentals with your valid college ID.

We've got an area just for snowboarding
plus a new snow tubing park. So escape from
the library (or your roommate) and come enjoy
Massanutten. It will save you some money—and

maybe a few brain cells.

1-800-207-MASS

www.massresort.com

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

,1-lit

Wanted llli

if

individuals,
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
1997 Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS

1-800-327-6013

Student

NVELO PE STU FFING

EXCELLENT
EXTRA INCOME NOW!
E

— S600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

Hgotld UBININHS

  

gwv

0 Over 75 accredited courses
0 French Immersion Program
. Fine Arts Program
I Advanced Photography and

  

Web Design Programs
0 Cultural Excursions

For more infbrmatian, tall or write:

The American University of Paris
Summer Programs, Box S-2000
102 rue St. Dominique

75007 Paris, France

Tel. (33/1)-1/0 62 06 14

Fax (33/1) 40 62 0717

New York office: Tel. (212) 985-1414

LEXINGTON
UNPLUGGED

BY GINGER Pnrurps
—————— STAFF WRHER

If you didn’t catch the acoustic
concert at Lenfest Saturday night, then
you definitely missed out on some
great music and a lot of fun. “One
Acoustic Evening” was a benefit con-
cert for the spring break in Nicarauga
and Christmas in April. For three
hours twelve local groups entertained
a packed house with music ranging
from oldtime and bluegrass to rock and
alternative.

Organizers for the Nicaragua trip,
sophomore Elizabeth Harvey andjun-
ior John McAllister, believe the con-
cert was a huge success. “It was amaz-
ing to see the turnout. There were
people sitting in the aisles, and we
even had to turn some people away,”
said Harvey.

The benefit concert was orga-
nized by guitarist Burr Datz, whoalso
performed in the show. Other artists
included Mike Seeger, an oldtime gui-
tar player who has recorded with Bob
Dylan; Carol Elizabeth Jones and
James Leva, a couple who play and
sing beautiful, somber music in the
Grand Ole Opry style. Bruce Clark and
the Ruley Boys also performed.
Seeger says Clark is “a living encyclo-
pedia offolk music,” and it is obvious
that this banjo player performed folk
songs with an upbeat rhythm.

Many other performers were W&L
students, professors and alumni.
Sophomore music major Josh Harvey
played piano while senior Robert
Hughes sang. Sophomore Ginny
Jemigan said, “Josh is amazing and

Robert’s singing is phenomenal. All
of the musicians are so talented, and
this is a really great show.”

Senior John Wilbersjoined VMI
senior Mike Kelleher for some acous-
tic rock songs. Chris Leva (W&L ’86)
jammed on the guitar, and Larry Keel,
ﬂatpicking champion and his wife
Jenny (W&L ’89) also played some
great tunes. My personal favorite act
was Wildshadow, the duo of Tom
Jennings, Director of Law School De-
velopment at W&L, and Mary Jo
Ramsey-Smith. Other acts included
local realtor and guitarist, Jim Brown,
and singer/songwriter Leslie Tucker.

W&L philosophy professor W.
Lad Sessions said, “It is wonderful
that we have so much local talent. I
really enjoyed the show.”

Over 450 people attended the ben-
efit concert, which raised around
$2,250 to support the alternative spring
break projects. Organizers of the
projects believe that these are worthy
causes to support. This is the fourth
annual trip to Nicaragua, and organiz-
ers hope to go again next year.

The eight students traveling to
Nicaragua this February will helpto re-
build an orphanage. McAllister said,
“It is is a great opportunity to gain
global respect for one of the poorest
countries in Central America. It should
be a life-changing experience for both
the W&L students and the people in
Nicaragua.”

Freshman Colin Tate summed up
the concert, “It was a wonderful expe-
rience, and I think that it’s great that
it has brought the Lexington
community together.”

111111111111111111
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.|

STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
TO A $35
DISCOUNT WHEN ADVER-
TISING WITH THE H11.
THINK ABOUT IT.

Subway Sandwiches and Salads
453 E. Nelson St.

FEED A menu or
PRTYA

    

it
Make your bash a smash with a Subway Party Sub or Party Platter.
You tell us how long you want your Party Sub — and we’ll make it
And we‘ll stuff your Party Platter with your favorite subs —
sliced in tasty 4" portions. Call Subway and make plans for
your party. Big plans.

 

463-3322

njmnu.

V”

 

  

JAN 19, 1998

Wash those hands and
do not touch your eyes

Winter Term is under way. ‘Tis the season
for radical Virginia temperature swings,
erronious snow forecasts and the ravages of the
ﬂu bug. There are few people on this campus
who haven’t had the ﬂu, or at least have a
friend or roommate who has it.

On a campus of this size, and especially in
the dorms, it is almost impossible not to catch
the bug that is going around. If it starts down
your hall, you can almost count the days until
you get it.

So, The Ring-tum Phi would like to give
some health advice to those of our fellow
students who are unlucky enough to contract
the ﬂu.

First, cover your mouth when you cough.
Not only are you spreading germs, but it is also
really disgusting. No one wants a View of your
infected tonsils.

Second, if you are really sick, don’t go to
class. Most professors on this campus are really
understanding about sickness, especially around
this time of the year. If your professor makes
you show up to your class, take that empty seat
in the back comer of the room.

Third, touching your eyes is a really good
way to get sick. Wash your hands often. You’ll
keep yourself and others from getting sick.

Fourth, don’t hook up if you’re sick. There’s
still plenty of time to get an FD date. Getting
sick is another of those really gross post-
hookup presents you’d rather not deal with.
The walk of shame is deﬁnitely enough.

Fifth, take care of your friends. If one of
your friends or roommates is sick, help him
out. It goes a long way to making them feel
better, and you might get the favor returned
when you are lucky enough to get it. Chicken
soup, saltiries, and lots of ﬂuids are wonderful
gifts for those in need.

In short, the ﬂu bug, well, just bites. It’s no
fun to get it, it’s no fun to live with those who
have it. So take care of yourself, take care of
your friends, and we’ll all be a healthier, hap-
pier campus.

“ rim?

‘i%,,,W(j”uote of the week:

~23.
'<:7:.,-.
wag-r

.«r'

No comment.

— many different people when Phi writers
contacted them this week.

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Courtney Miller

Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Assistant News Editor Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
retlect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Ah, the joys of pledgeship season

Yes, it’s the most wonderful time of the year —
PLEDGESHIP! Judging by the already record number
of stomach pumps this class has needed, we can assume
that this year’s frosh are really quite a dimwitted bunch
of sheep, even by W&L standards! Since none of them
are likely to_question a single aspect of their pledgeship
programs, that means it’s holiday time for slave-driving
upperclassmen. So put down that paddle and join me in
singing our traditional pledgeship holiday songs.

 

Violent Night

(sing to the tune of “Silent Night”)

Violent night, bloody night

I’ve seen more love at a gang ﬁght

Round up pledges and beat them with sticks
Bonding like brothers through punches and kicks
Christ, my clothes are all torn!

Christ, my clothes are all torn.

Violent night, gory night
S&M freaks have orgasmic delight
Beaten by brothers with paddles and whips

Yes, sharing is
for everybody

Sharing is something we all learned to do in kinder-
garten.

It was easy. If I had the ﬁretruck and you had the
ﬁremen ﬁgures, we played together. I traded you a cookie
for a piece of celery covered in peanut butter. V Ifl needed
somewhere to sit on the way home, you moved over so
that I could sit on the seat, too.

  

 Brick Row
‘ 

When we shared, everything worked out well.

Nowadays, we have bigger toys. Instead of G.I. Joe
ﬁgures, we have the classrooms other people want, the
computers other people need to write English essays, the
lab equipment other people need tomorrow.

Like our toys, the rules have changed as well. Shar-
ing isn’t always seen as the norm. Sometimes, sharing is
not possible at all.

For example, many students choose to study in the

science building in the evening. l,.Jr1ifortunately,,the mg- ,_

jority of these students seem unwilling to ‘share the class-
rooms they ﬁnd. It’s as though they’ve staked their terri-
tory and posted fair warning for any unwanted visitors.

In one extreme case, my friend James walked into a
geology lab he needed one evening only to ﬁnd two stu-
dents studying economics. He worked quietly, doing what
he needed to do. When he left the room, however, the
two students locked him out. The work James needed
was inside and he was trapped outside.

(This story has a happy ending: James used his lab
key to get into the room. The two students seemed sur-
prised. James went back to work.)

We should be more willing to share classrooms. We
only need one of the dozens of seats in any given room.
Two people ought to be able to comfortably occupy a 30-
foot-by-30-foot room.

I don’t rrrind using a room with another student. I
only ask one courtesy: It’s polite to ask if you can use a
room that someone else is using. That’s sharing.

Unfortunately, bigger toys means it’s not always pos-
sible to share. Computer labs are a good example. One
of the computer science labs is set up so that only CS
students and majors can use the computers there. A sign
on the door of the geology computer lab warns students
that the lab is for geology students only.

There are good reasons why these restrictions have
been established. First, software which CS and geology
students need is only available on those machines. If
Turbo C++, a programming software package, were on
all of the computers across campus, then there would be
no need to keep people from using the CS labs. As things
stand, however, access to those computers needs to be
restricted.

Second, some computer labs olfer free printing to stu-
dents who are enrolled in classes associated with those
labs. Only students in those classes are intended to enjoy
that privilege. Since there is no way to make some people
pay and to offer free printing to others, only certain people
should be able to use the labs.

The rules have changed, but the idea is the same: If
you have something that you can share with others, you
should. If someone can’t share with you what you want,
then go get a different toy.

See you in the science building. I’ll bring the cookies.

v4"

  

3*“

*3‘ 
TAI ,K     

 

“I’ll probably have to be a wait-
ress for Sigma Chi.”
— Matt Howenstein ’0l

      

 

“Strip naked and paint my enitre
body green and white.”

Forced to chug vodka and whiskey and dip
Christ, my clothes are all torn!
Christ, my clothes are all torn.

Hark, the Sisters Serenade

(sing to the tune of “Hark, the Herald Angels Sing”)
Hark, the sisters serenade ‘

Naked on the Colonnade

Singing silly sorority songs

Dressed in less than bikini thongs

Joyful guys on the hill that night
Who happen upon this happy sight
With a trembling voice they shriek
“Hope you do this again next week!”

God Rest Ye Weary Freshmen

(sing to the tune of "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen”)
God rest ye weary freshmen, you’re gonna need that sleep
You’ll never see your bed again for several busy weeks
Thcy’ll forceyouto do menial tasks cuzyouare such a sheep
Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy,

Southern Comfort and joy
Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy

God rest ye weary freshmen, it’s only three o’clock
Your brother wants some cigarettes so head on down the block
Or we’ll attach you to car batteries and give you quite a shock

Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy,
Southern Comfort and joy
Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy

Rudolph, the Red Nosed Freshman
Rudolph, the red nosed freshman
had a rather trying night

Tried to consume eight gallons

Of Michelob and Natty Light

All of the other pledges

Call each other by pledge names
They beat the pants off Rudolph

In several rounds of drinking games

Then in the infirrnary, the doctor came and said
Rudolph, with your nose so red

Medically you should be dead.

Then all the brothers loved him

And they souted with elation

“We’re glad you didn’t die, dude,

’Cuz then we’d be put on probation!”

Wreck the Hill

(sing to the tune of “Deck the Halls”)

Wreck the Hill with frat graﬂiti, fa la la la la, la la la la
Makeyourdesklookcheapandseedy, falalalala, lalalala
Write Greek letters on the tables, fa la la la la la, la la la
Prove your frat’s for f-ing a-holes, fa la la la la, la la la la

15 Minutes of Shame

   
   

Mn\<-hot.
ovnruli-J15

7’/z.

   

?
G QU-J  TJ+Q.ol)‘-it
J

‘NM-‘r

1 wave, 8 co~smu~7
ammonia.

pearl. _

 

 

  
   
 

’ cntrrrem
KMLL ar.t:‘r-fﬁ*“‘

 

L.-

ii solution to the smoking issue eonve

A1 '?.¢1>o \l°‘-"5":

  

  

D

Avirmﬁ _J
nieotly overlooked by President Eliot

One columnist

makes

amends for past grievances

(Editor ’s note: Reeling from the controversy that last
week’s colunm stirred up, Eric Swensen has vowed to be-
come a kinder, gentler columnist, striving to be as bland
and inoffensive as possible. Without any ﬁirther ado, here
is the new, improved Eric Swensen.)

 

Washington and Lee University is located in the hu-
colic city of Lexington, Virginia, a cultural Mecca and cen-
ter of progressive social thinking. Students enjoy a fabu-
lous relationship with the residents of the surrounding area,
whom they have affectionately dubbed “townsfolk.”

Students also get along well with cadets from the Vir-
ginia Military Institute, whom they refer to as “military
gentlemen” (and “gentlewomen”). Other frequent visitors
to campus include scholars from a number of surrounding
women’s colleges. They are greeted warmly by W&L
women, who call them “our sisters-in-arms.”

W&L facilities are top-notch. The students frequently
boast about being a “Division III school with Division I

“I’m just going to the

—— Jack Alford ’00 — Max

.-

 

house and we’re ordering pizza.”

facilities.” Parking on campus is more than ample. If, for
some reason, you can’t ﬁnd a parking spot on campus, don’t
worry about those signs in town that say “two-hour park-
ing.” Those signs are there just for show.

Academically, W&L is among the top schools in the cam-
pus computer system, ensuring every student has access to
fail-safe computers for research and writing.

Of course, there is much more to W&L than just hard
work. The unoﬂicial student motto is “Work hard, and do
your best to ﬁnish that six-pack.” Administrators are con-
cerned about students’ refusal to come out of these aestheti-
cally pleasing library before midnight on weekends and to
chip in for communal sources of alcohol. One administra-
tor, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “I wish these
kids would cut loose and have a good time once in a while.”

The social scene centers around W&L’s 15 fraternities,
though independents can have just as good a time. Most
Friday and Saturday nights, students gather in the basement
“party rooms” to the debate the issues of the day, such as
“America’s foreign policy during the Cold War” and “Do
tan khzikis match everything?” While enjoying a selection
of all-natural fruit juices from the bar.

In short, what’s not to like?

What are you doing for the Super Bowl?

 

“Going to watch Denver lose be-
cause they beat Pittsburg.”

— Kurt Acker ’0l

fraternity

Smith ’0l

 

 

 
 

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

FIJI objects to Swensen’s words

I was very disappointed and shocked when I
read Eric Swensen’s column, “From a Bar Stool,”
in your last edition. As a journalism major, I was
shocked that someone who received the same
education as me would take part in such
irresponsible journalism. I was disappointed
because my fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, have
done everything possible to be model citizens
since the incident mentioned ﬁve years ago, yet
our name is being slandered again.

My utter disbelief stems from the liberal
attitude Mr. Swensen took towards the facts.
Although he said in his column that he didn’t
mean to implicate us in the break-in of a FIJI
pledge’s room five years ago, by bringing up the
incident, and through his snide, underhanded
remarks, he implicated us in every way. although
no FIJI was ever convicted of the break-in, Mr.
Swensen decided to try the case in his paper
where there would be no defense. I ’m certain that
the University and the police looked into the
incident at the time and determined the any of
FIJIs were guilty, but ﬁve years later, Mr.
Swensen makes us defend ourselves again. I
thought there was no such thing as double
jeopardy.

There are no brothers who are currently active
in the FIJI house who were even attending
Washington and Lee at the time of this alleged
break-in. The university gave us a stiff penalty for
the hazing incident and we have done everything
possible to make sure something like that doesn’t
happen again. We have rebuilt the house from a
membership of less than 20 after our penalty to a
st_rong one consisting of more than 40 brothers.
Yet Mr. Swensen wants to write about an incident

that occurred before he was here and one which
he knows nothing about.

I recommend that Mr. Swensen get of the bar
stool, stop drinking and start attending some
journalism classes so that he may learn
something. On this one he really missed the
mark.

Eric Zavolinsky
Phi Gamma Delta brother, Class of 1998

‘No Smoking’ policy to drive
many professors from offices

It would be irresponsible of me not to respond
publicly to your encyclical prohibiting smoking
in faculty and staff offices. The wording of your
memorandum of January 9, tends to obscure the
real issue because it makes no mention of the
actual change you have mandated. All faculty
offices are located in classroom buildings, and
the policy in place prior to today prohibited
smoking everywhere in those buildings except in
offices assigned to faculty and staff.

For those of us who choose to smoke, the new
policy is far more than inconvenient; it is oner-
ous. It will have the certain effect of driving
many of us out of University office space. We will
not be as available to students as we should be,
and that nullifies Washington and Lee’s excellent
and long-touted policy of doors open to students.

I agree that your policy change may be called
for, but we do not have reliable evidence that it
is. Air quality in classroom and administrative
buildings may in fact be dangerous to the health
of those who do not smoke, and tobacco smoke
might contribute to poor- air quality. But as Dean
Boetsch told me this morning, no actual measure-
ment of air quality has been made, so we obvi-
ously cannot know whether smoking in faculty
offices is a threat serious enough to warrant the
prohibition you have declared.

Dean Lourent Boetsch also told me that the
Director of Personnel Bob Fox looked at a variety
of sources in trying to determine the degree of
health risk posed by different levels of exposure
to tobacco smoke. They found that clear and
reliable data do not exist. Reliable data do exist,
of course, to show that exposure at some level of
intensity and duration is injurious to health, but
there exists no agreement in the scientific and
medical communities about what those level are.

Because we do not know what level of expo-
sure constitutes a threat, and because we do not
know what the air quality in our classroom and
administrative buildings, your policy smacks
more of political correctness than of evidence-
based management. That constitutes a serious
departure them the management principles that
have in place here since 1749.

Moreover, this is the first time in my 38 years
at Washington and Lee that i have not been at
liberty to determine what may go on in office
space assigned to me by the University. Now that
I am no longer authorized to control the office, I
have cause to wonder what other conduct may be
prohibited, or required, in the future. I also
understand that, once the University prohibits a
behavior, all conduct not specifically prohibited
is permitted. Certainly that is a tinie-honored
principle in law.

Dean Boetsch told me that complaints about
tobacco smoke came from two kind of people,
those who have a diagnosed medical condition
that can be exacerbated by smoke and those who
harbor some fear of possible future illness
traceable to exposure to tobacco. It seems to me
that little imagination is required to find ways to
isolate those colleagues without causing such
drastic disruption to smokers. I am sure there
were complaints also from some who re merely

offended by smoke, just as others are offended by
other things in our air. These people can simply
be ignored, because no one can expect to live in
community with others and have an environment
that is altogether to one’s aesthetic liking.

While I do not question the university’s
genuine and proper concern for health in the
community, I do have good reason to suspect that
health-based concerns were not the dominant
motive for the new policy. Colds and ﬂu are a far
more immediate and widespread health problem
than smoke, and yet the University ignored Dr.
Jane Horton’s sensible suggestion a year or so
ago that we place anti-bacterial soap in all
restrooms.

Coming now, finally, to my own individual
situation, I want to be as accessible to students as
possible. Otherwise I can do my work in my
home office, coming on campus only to met class
and keep scheduled appointments. It would be far
more desirable, however, to be in an office
adjacent to campus, perhaps some place like the
old Dutch Inn. It might make sense for the
University to rent office space off campus for
smokers’ offices. Doing so would have the further
advantage of opening up office space on campus.

For what it is worth, in my days here Wash-
ington and lee has never done anything before
now that left me with so deep a sense of alien-
ation from the community I love. You may be
assured that I am trying in every way possible to
overcome that, including writing this letter. I
have tried not to be strident and I assume you
will not take personal offense.

Louis W. Hodges
Knight Professor of Journalism

Thomsen clarifies quotations in
sorority rush story

I am writing in response to the article in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi dealing with sorority rush.
As Panhellenic Rush Chariman, I find several
problems with the article and quotes that were
attributed to me in it.

Ifind it distressing and unusual that, after one
of the most successful women’s rushes in the
history of this campus, the Phi decided to run an
article about the minority of women who fall
through the process as if it were a major problem.
Only four out of 177 women fell through the rush
process this year. It is unfortunate that anyone
falls through rush, but I do not think that the fact
that less than three percent of women who rushed
failed to receive a bid warrants a prominent front
page article that mentions nothing of the suc-
cesses of this year. Contrary to the tone of the
article, the system really does work.

I would also like to address the quote attrib-
uted to me in the article. Perhaps some of my
original words were lost in the editing mistakes
that seemed to chop the quote in half. Whatever
the cause, I feel it is necessary to address a quote
that so misrepresented the spirit of my entire
interview with the author. A huge majority,
probably 90 percent, of my statements during the
interview were focused on the positive aspects of
rush and how happy I am with the results of this
year’s process. It was a very good year for us, and
I made that very clear in the interview. I did say
that there will be glitches in any system and that
it is unfortunate, even “crappy” when girls fall
through the system. I did not say that the rush
process itself is a negative one. The comments
attributed to me in the Phi seem to be a conglom-
eration of the very few negative words I said,
taken out of context and twisted to match the
negative tone of the article. My words and the
focus of my entire interview was very positive.
Obviously, the article implied otherwise.

Obviously and unfortunately, it is too late to
go back and write about the real results of
women’s rush. But I would like to have the
opportunity to assure all of the sorority women
and freshmen with whom I worked this year that
I believe in and support the rush process.

Holly Thomsen
Panhellenic Rush Chairman, Class of 1998

@112 Ring-tum iﬂlii
always encourages
letters to the editor.

To submit your
letter, simply drop it
in our mailbox in
the University
Center by noon on
Saturday.

opinion 8: editorial  

JANUARY 19, 1998

City: ‘ilting-tum Iﬂlii

is still accepting applications for

BUSINESS MANAGER

SUBMIT YOUR RE—  
SUIVIE AND A COVER
LETTER TO THE H—//
l\/IAILBOX IN THE
UNIVERSITY ENTER.

INTERVIEWS ARE
COMING SOON. SO
APPLY TODAY!

YOU Wlll BE PAID!

Students... D

é
Join us for our Super Buffet, only

$5 .99, every Thrusday-Saturday night
and Sunday brunch. Every Monday
night students receive 10% off all
entrees. Drink specials available every
weeknight. Delivery available daily with 10% off
to all students

463-3330
(behind McDonalds)

Ea/P

JANUARY 19, 1998

RESULTS

Men’s Basketball (7-6)
Mon.: Dickinson 55
‘W&L 69
Thur. Lynchburg 41
W&L 55
Sat.: W&L 34
Rand-Mac 49
Women’s Basketball
(7-5)
Tues.: Va Wesleyan 80
(OT) W&L 76
Thur.: Rand-Mac 67
W&L 45
Sat.: W&L 65
Lynchburg 48
Sun.: Wesleyan (Ga.) 31
W&L 57
Men’s Swimming (4-4)
Tues.: Buffalo State 36
W&L 107
Sat.: Goucher 44
W&L 95
Catholic 120
W&L 82
Women’s Swimming
(6-3)
Tues.: Buffalo State 66
W&L 106
Sat.: Goucher 66
W&L 96
Catholic 129
W&L 70

AHEAD

Tuesday

Women’s Basketball -
Bridgewater,

7:00 p.m. Wamer Center

Wednesday

Men's Basketball —

at Emory & Henry,

7:30 p.m.

Women's Swimming —
at Radford, 7:00 p.m.

Thursday
Women’s Basketball —
at Guilford, 7:00 p.m.

Saturday

M&W Indoor Track —
at East Tennessee State
Wrestling —

W&L Invitational,

9:00 a.m., Warner Center

Sunday

M&W Swimming -
Emory/Johns Hopkins
at UNC—Chapel Hill,
11:00 a.m.

The

Iuankie

By
Brendan
Harrington

Men ’s Basketball:

Generals dominate
Dickinson, Lynchburg:
end winning week 2-1

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—:'—":’— SPORTS WRHER

The Generals went 2-1 last week as
they destroyed both the Dickinson Red
Devils and the Lynchburg Hornets by
14 points.

On Monday, the Generals dominated
Dickinson College, downing the Red
Devils 69-55 in a non-conference
matchup at the Warner Center. On
Wednesday the Generals closed out
their 6 game homestand with a 55-41
win over ODAC rival Lynchburgh Col-
lege to finish 4-2 during the homestand.

Rich Peterson led the way for the
Generals on Monday night, bouncing
back from his two-point performance
against Roanoke last Saturday to score
a game—high 14 against Dickinson.

“Rich really stepped up for us,” said
Generals head coach Kevin Moore. “ I
really think his hand injury is not a fac-
tor anymore.”

The Generals went on a 14-0 run to
take control of the game and led 24-10
midway through the ﬁrst half. The Gen-
erals led by as many as 23 points but a
late run by the Red Devils brought them
within 12 with 3:50 to play.

Senior Nate Brought led the way for
Dickinson as he poured in 16 points and
added 5 rebounds while Nikki Edmunds
added 10 points for the Red Devils. The

_ Generals ﬁnished the game with four

players in double digits, as Peterson led
the way with 14, junior point guard
Kevin Cobbin scored 13, and senior
Kelly Dyer and Freshman Will Ballard
each added 12. The loss dropped
Dickinson to 5-6.

The Generals dominated the boards,

 

outrebounding the Red Devils 44-25.
Peterson just missed a double-double
as he picked up 9 rebounds en route to
the victory.

On Wednesday night, the Generals
overcame some early shooting woes to
down ODAC rival Lynchburgh 55-41.
W&L trailed 12-4 with 9:00 left to go
in the first half before Rich Peterson
took over the game.

Peterson scored 11 points in less
than 3230, including an acrobatic steal
and layup which brought the Warner
Center crowd to its feet. Peterson ﬁn-
ished the game with l7 points and 8
rebounds for the Generals, who im-
proved to 7-5 overall and 4-2 in the
ODAC.

“The guys really came up big to-
night,” said coach Moore. “Rich was a
huge spark for us off the bench tonight.
He came up with some plays that re-
ally got us going.”

Peterson was injured early in the
year when he broke his ﬁnger and has
been coming off the bench since his
return. However, Moore expects last
year’s ODAC freshman of the year to
return to the starting lineup in the very
near future.

“It’s deﬁnitely a possibility,” com-
mented Moore. “ lt’s worked out well
with Rich coming off the bench and you
don’t want to mess with a successful
lineup. But it’s deﬁnitely something to
think about.”

The Generals led 26-21 at the half
and went on to shoot 58 percent from
the ﬁeld in the second half as Peterson
continued his superior play. Kelly Dyer
added 12 points for the Generals and

spo

 

PAGE 7

   

Eric Owsley had 9 points. C r1s
Whelan led the way for the Hornets as
he scored 14 points. The loss dropped
Lynchburgh to 4-7 overall and 2-3 in
the ODAC.

On Sunday, Randolph Macon held
the Generals to just a mere 34 points

  

ANSLEY
MILLER
POWERS
down the lane,

smoking her slow
and clumsy Georgia
Wesleyan opponent
and marking two.
The Generals
proceeded to
dismantle the
worthless
Wesleyans, 5 7-3 1,
improving their
record to 7-5.

Puoro BY 1']()I.l.lS'I'l~.'R
Ho Vl:'Y/PHO’I'() Eur/‘or

 

and W&L shoflonly 32 percent from

the ﬁeld as the Generals fell to the Yel-
low Jackets 49-34 in Ashland, Va.

The Generals trailed at the half 21-

‘ 14 before Macon extended the lead to

41-21 with 7:00 left in the game.

Randolph-Macon was 17-19 from the

 

free throw line and outrebounded the
Generals 36-32.

The win was the 20th straight vic-
tory for Randolph Macon against the
Generals.

The loss dropped the Generals to
4-3 in the ODAC and 7-6 overall.

It’s that time of year again every-
body. Time for yet another Super
Bowl, the thirty-second to be exact,
and time for me to predict who will
win the biggest game in the world.
Even though nobody will run out
and make a bet based on what I will
say, I still feel it as my duty to ac-
cess my physic powers and tell you
the next Super Bowl Champion.

Though I didn’t exactly predict
the World Series accurately, as
Cleveland didn’t even make it, I am
conﬁdent that the Super Bowl will
be a different story. I have already
successfully picked the Broncos and
Packers to get here, despite the fact
that they had to play on the road, and
I expect my momentum to carry

right on through to the Super Bowl.

Jan 22, 1984; That is the last time
the AFC won the Super Bowl. And
like the New York Rangers and the
year 1945, 1984 will soon be a year
that will be synonymous with a lost
cause. In 1984 I was 5 years old,
Ronald Reagan was president,
Washington & Lee was still all male,
and Patrick Ewirig‘ was still playing
for Georgetown. That was a long
time ago.

Will this year be the end of the
14-year stretch of NFC dominance?
Will John Elway ﬁnally win the big
one? Will Brett Favre and the Pack
dance all the way back to Wiscon-
sin with the Super Bowl Trophy?
All right, enough suspense, 1 give
you the 1998 Super Bowl Champi-
ons: The Green Bay Packers.

Though my heart will go out to
the Broncos for yet another Super
Bowl loss, you don’t bet against a
champion, and that’s exactly what
Brett Favre and the Green Bay pack-
ers. If you watched the NFC cham-
pionship game last week, the Pack-
ers man-handled the 49ers in their

own backyard. San Francisco is a
good football team. Nothing against
Denver, I love Terell Davis and I love
Elway even more, I just don’t think
they have the weapons to knock the
Pack from their throne.

The score? I still think it will be
close. The ﬁnal score will be 27-17
but the Broncos will be lurking the en-
tire game. Terell Davis will present
his usual challenge, but the not-so-
sure hands of Rod Smith and the frag-
ile Ed McCaffery will not be able to
handle the tough Green Bay second-
ary which includes all-pro safeties
Eugene Robinson and LeRoy Butler.
So color the Super Bowl green and
white and watch the cheese-heads
dance in the street as Green Bay will
make it back—to-back Super Bowl Vic-
tories.

For all those who haven’t gone to
a Generals men’s hoops game, I urge
you to come out to the Warner Center
a week from Wednesday to cheer on
the Generals against first place
Hampden—Sydney. The Generals are
off to a great start and have won more
games midway through this season
then they have the last two years com-
bined. They are 7-6 overall and 4-3
in the ODAC and they upset
1-lampden—Sydney the ﬁrst time they
met, 44-42 in early December.

Crowd support has been poor in
recent years for the Generals, though
this year’s success has brought a slight
increase in attendance. Last Wednes-
day, various fraternity pledge classes
were at the game, some with painted
faces and bare chests. One group of
pledges even danced shirtless on the
ﬂoor to a time-out musicjam. So stop
coming up with those excuses and
come out and give the Generals some
support. Both Coach Moore and the
team have earned it and you might
even have a little fun.

HOUSE FOR
RENT

4 goo/rooms’, 2 do/hrooms,
washerwyem rﬂshwasheign

gull,/%-JON £67?

29 Hook Lane
463-2556

Ask for Matt or Jason

 

 

PAGE 8

  

MILKMEN WANT WOMEN 

Sign-up for acts will be
Wednesday and Thursday in ﬁont
of the C 0-op. Entry fee is $30 per
act. First prize is $100 and a
Fancy Dress ticket,’ second prize is
$50 and a Fancy Dress ticket;
third prize is a Fancy Dress ticket.

First place acts of years past
include “Thriller" performed by
Kappa Alpha Theta pledges and a
dance mix of ABBA hits performed
by the Park View roomates,
Vanessa Hall, Erin Rosencrans,
Shelli Henderson and Nejma Petit.
Spice Girls are sure to make an
appearance this year.

‘The Rules:’

By Andrea Ewing. ‘ate Editor

Everyone discusses the social atmosphere at
Washington and Lee, but do they really know what
Ms. Manners would have to say about hooking up?
I will attempt to establish guidelines to be followed
by the ever-clueless. For those of you who still won-
der what is the proper way of scamming and then
hooking up with someone, I shall try to erase those
questions.

Tear Night might have been an experience you
either wish you could forget, or that you do not
even remember. This night has a reputation for be-
ing one of the more eventful nights on campus. The
ever present “walk of shame” can be witnessed even
more prevalently on this night than on many others.
Some other very busy weekends include Homecom-
ing, Christmas Weekend, and Fancy Dress.

Yet many still ask: What is the proper way to hook
up?

Rule #1: Getting it on in front of everyone on the
dance floor might seem cool, but get a room! Those
of us who are not as lucky as you do not want to
witness the hormone-
driven moment you are
sharing. Cg

BLUES BROTHERS ’00

The 12th annual Lip Synch
Contest is next Friday at the
Student Activities Pavilion. The
doors open at 8:30 p.m. and the
show begins at 9 p.m. Admission
is $5 at the door, or $4 ifpur-
chased in advance in front of the
Co—op. The proceeds are used to
purchse food for four local food
pantries and 10 percent is
donated to the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.

Senior Matt O ’Brien is the
chairman of this year 's event. He
hopes SARAH will be able to top
last year ’s four-ton purchase of

 I food.

 

 

Hooking-up
at Washington and Lee

Rule #6: Scamming is encouraged. Stalking is not.

Rule #7: Vomiting is not a good prelude to a kiss.
Consider this scenario: She looks into his eyes, and
he leans down to kiss her. She then says, “Hold on,”
and bolts through the door to the bathroom.

Rule #8: There is a difference between hooking-
up and HOOKING-UP. One requires more extensive
removal of clothing and burns more calories.

Rule #9: It may seem smart to leave a party with
the person you are going to hook up with, but real-
ize that others know exactly what is going on. People
talk.

Rule #10: Avoid at all costs the urge to spend
the night in a room other than your own. The walk
the next morning can be damn cold.

Rule #11: Freshmen girls should realize that Se-
nior guys may seem interested in what you are say-
ing, but they have other things in mind. This can
hold true for males as well.

Rule #12: A friend ofthe other sex should not be
the one to hook up with. Itjust gets messy. Class or
lunch the next day could be awkward.

Rule #13: Hooking up with someone because their
name sounds cool is not the greatest reason to ini-
tiate physical contact.

Rule #14: Realize
that the person in

Rule #2: Scamming
someone takes effort
don’t just hand them
the beer. Try, if pos-
sible, to say something

No matter how many times you
hook—up with someone, you are not
dating unless specified.

whom you are so inter-
ested now could actu-
ally not really be that
hot once the beer
wears off.

witty or humorous.
This might require
thought and could be
difficult depending on your state of intoxication.

Rule #3: If you know someone is regularly hook-
ing up with another, do not call that person’s room
late on a Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday night. It
will not be appreciated.

Rule #4: No matter how many times you hook up
with someone, you are not dating unless specified.
Dating requires spending time outside of the bed-
room or the fraternity party, and spending of money.

Rule #5: Males should come up with a better line
than, “Hey honey, you want to see my CD collec-
tion?” or “I have a really cool black-light in my room.
Want to make use of it?”

Colonnade Club

77

going to hook up in
your own room, make
sure that you do not
disturb your roomates. The hanger method is rec-
ommended. Also, make sure to lock your door, oth-
ers do not want to be traumatized by viewing you in
positions they have never imagined possible.

Ifthis set of guidelines does not clue you in, trans-
fer. Washington and Lee is not for you. In truth, one
does not have to participate in the hook—up scene,
and there are many couples on campus who can at-
test to this. Just realize hooking up can be a positive
or negative experience depending on the situation.
Make sure that you do not do anything you will re-
gret, but have fun.

Rule #15: Ifyou are

abitot Humor, Opinion aniB,eviews
Word

I-lazing independeniis

By Heather McDonald _
——e Assistant News Editor

e phone rings. It’s 2 a.m. I
groggily reach for the phone,
knocking over the books on

my nightstand.

“Hello?” my voice is weak and
raspy.

“I want you to go out and get me a
pack of cigarettes. Now!”

“Yes, Independent Smith. With plea-
sure, Independent Smith.” I get out of
bed, throw on some sweats and
stumble out into the sleeting cold.
The guy at Stop-In is now my friend; I
see him constantly because of my
“errands.”

I know once I survive it, I can do
anything. I know that it will make me
stronger. I know I can be one of them.
I want to be one ofthem. I will be one
of them.

I will be an Independent.
doesn’t kill me first. _

Sometimes in the middle of the‘
night, I wake up from dreams of what I
did during the day, and I wonder if it’s
really worth it 

“Four—eyes! You little wuss! You
can’t handle being Independent!” he
shouted at me as I continued to count
aloud my push-ups. One hundred and
one  one hundred and two  I can’t
respond. To breathe is pure agony, to
speak is torture.

“Keep going until I get back. Four-
eyes. If you stop, I will know. Do you
know why, Four-eyes?”

If it

JANUARY 19, 1998

“Because you’re Independent, In-
dependent Jones?” I whispered with
all the force I could manage.

“That’s right, Four-eyes!” He
stomped out the door. When he came
back four hours later, I had passed out
on the ﬂoor. I did it until I couldn’t do
it anymore — that’s the key to being
Independent.

Tear night was bad. They took all
of us Independents to one of the side
rooms in the D-Hall. And they said,
drink. And because we are Indepen-
dent pledges, we do as we are told.

I have never drunk so much in all
my life. I was never been a big drinker
in the first place, so this was even
worse. I was so sick. I couldn’t see
straight. My head was reeling. I was
shaky, dizzy, ready to cry. My stom-
ach could not hold the vast amounts
of liquid that I was imbibing. I had no
say in what I was drinking. After six
full D-Hall glasses (straight, not on the
rocks), I cried uncle.

“Independent Miller! I don’t think
I can drink anymore! Please let me
stop! Ireached my limit! I’ve maxed
out! I’ll die!” My words were already
running together. It was really bad.
But Independent Miller said, “No.”

“If I tell you to drink, you will, Four-
Eyes. Now DRINK!” And so, I started
on my seventh glass of Hawaiian
Punch. Then they started us in on the
Country-Time. I had four—<)r was it
five—oh hell, I can’t remember. I had
a lot. The sugar in my system was

0

enough to put me in a hyperglycemic
shock. Independent Smith and Inde-
pendent Miller took me home and gave
me some water. The next day, I was
told that I was doing the Macarena to
the Spice Girls on top of a D-Hall table.

I don’t remember any of it. But I
survived it. And that’s the key to be-
ing an Independent.

They say hazing is illegal, and out-
lawed and wrong. I don’t think it’s
wrong. My Independent class and I
have grown so much tighter than be-
fore. We act as one, we grumble as
one, we do stuff as one. When some-
thing really bad happened to my Inde-
pendent sister, she could tell me what
happened — no one else —— because
we’re Independents. I can’t tellyou
what happened, because you’re not
Independent, and if you are, then you
know what I’m talking about. You
know, the night when Roach was taken
to the top of House Mountain and 
well, you know the rest.

It’s only three weeks into the
pledge season. I have another five
weeks to go. Already, my grades
have dropped, my Greek friends
have gone their own way and I’m
constantly sick because I get no
rest.

I have bruises on my wrists and
whip marks on my back. But ifl sur-
vive it, life will be grand. I’ll be what
I always wanted to be.

And that’s the key to being an
Independent.

“Raimie”
Wes-Jason Miller
Raimie-Sybil Prince

“Gladiator”

Joe -Scott McKelvey
Peter-Tim Cleary
Bill- Ryan Truax

“Impromptu”

‘ Tony—Colin Tate
Ernest-Drew Higgs
Lora-Anne Hazlett
Winifred-Erin Mullaney

“The Love Talker”

The Redhead-Susannah Carr
Bun-Justin Moncrief
Glowdie-Brittany Alshstrom
The Love Talker-Matt Clymen

One Act Play Casts Announced

 

“The Philadelphia”
Al-Josh Carpenter
Mark-Francis McWilliams
Waitress-Erika Van Helden

“Here We Are”
He-John Bubb
She-Cassie Ritter

STUDENTS NERVOUSLY
await their turn to audition
for this year ’s one-act plays.
The plays are directed by
students from Washington
and Lee ’s Theatre Depart-
ment. Every year the
department presents the
student-directed plays as a

one-act series.
HOLLISTER HOI’1§Y/PHOTO EDITOR

“Business Man’s Lunch”
Frank-Gordon Meeker

J ohn-Eric Zavolinsky
Nick-Brian Prisco
Bentley-Pat Driscoll
Waitress- Danica Oliver

svn

MONDAY *1‘? Robert E. Lee’s Founder’s Day

*1‘? 11:30 a.m. ODK Convocation “Lee: The

Marvelous Man” (adjusted class schedule) =3‘? 8
p.m. Class of ’63 lecture in Northen Audito-
rium — “Moral Education in Diverse Society:

How (if at all) should universities teach ethics?”

31¢ TUESDAY 31¢ 7 p.m. Women’s B-ball

vs. Bridgewater 33545 8 p.m. W&L music fac-
ulty & friends present “An Evening of

Gershwin” in Lenfest 3%? WEDNESDAY i>I¢

go out 51‘? THURSDAY 1555 7 :30 p.m. Con-
\ tact brings Anthony Byrant to speak on “The

Coming Demise of Cuba” in Northen i>I‘v‘= FRI-

DAY ‘PK 4 p.m. Math Colloquium: “Finite
Subgroups of Complex Matrix Groups” in
Robinson Hall Room 6 33¢ 7:30 p.m. Film
Society shows “Microcosmos” in the Trouba-
dour $1‘? 9 p.m. Lip Sync to benefit S.A.R.A.H.
in the Pavilion 51¢ Breakfast club at Chi Psi 151‘?

Easy E at Pi Phi :>I<= SATURDAY as 9 a.m.
W&L Wrestling Invitational in the Warner Cen-
ter i>I¢ 7:30 p.m. “Microcosmos” 51¢ 8 p.m.
Sonoklect Concert with Chris Taylor in Lenfest
*1‘? The Ernies at Chi Psi

By Hollister Hovey

eeez-17419 9//H1>‘oL'9\

 
   

l7!W7‘i’l7P0TE’:T eiuoe

HDW WDNIHZFUL wouw
OUIZ uﬂlé wauo 9;

I P TH19 TZENV
\ éoN1’1Nuiae?I.

      

 

Tlmrixiiein A

   

 

Tihé TEIDENT

at/main erawem
TU 13:; DEAN OF

 

  

1-Hg ¢INé*Tl/M 77H’!

1944;»; lk&i/-90N,TF-
1v 131; LA w ecH1>oL
9 iv EMT!

 

[:55

   

 
   
 

   

‘.

 

8

 
   

/itch M
, *2"?-2. ‘ass
i’<. 

1‘/.  5.’)

(I

ll   The moming-after pill:

hope is close at hand 

W&L|FE

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 12

Demure dancers
triumph at Lip
Synch flesh fest

 Judges favor skill, practice and
choreography over drunken strip-
tease and wanton destruction

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

NEWS EDITOR

With over 840 spectators and 32 acts, this year’s Lip
Synch contest turned out to be the place to be Friday night.
First place went to Chi Omega’s “Men in Black,” second
place went to Chi-O’s “Everybody Needs Somebody,” and
third place went to Kappa Delta’s “Son of a Preacher Man.”

“At first we thought we had been disqualiﬁed because
we had more than six people on stage, but then they called
our name,” said Faith Collins, a KD pledge. “It was so
exhilarating! You couldn’t see any of the people in the
crowd, but you could just hear this one big cheer from
them. It was one of the most fun nights this year.”

$5,080 was raised for Students Against Rockbridge
Area Hunger. Coordinator Gerry Darrell said Friday night,
“It will keep four area food banks filled for the rest of the
winter.”

This year’s contest was the largest ever: it had the most
acts and the largest audience, and it raised the most money.
Last year, only about $3,500 was raised, and only 575
people paid to see the show.

“I was very pleased with the response of the specta-
tors. It was a very successful tumout,” said Darrell.

Junior Wes Armstrong, the Lip Synch MC, agreed.
“We had the most people ever  It was the craziest I’ve
ever seen it,” he said.

Crazy is perhaps the best way to describe some-of
the acts. Ranging from classic such as James Brown
and Nancy Sinatra to more contemporary spoofs of
movies such as “Austin Powers” and “Men in Black,”
the acts ran the gamut from the carefully choreographed
to the chaotic.

There were mishaps with two acts. A Phi Psi pledge
accidentally exposed his genitalia. The unintentional
exhibitionist could not be reached for comment. \

The Sigma Nu act also got out of control. At the
end, the pledges tore down the white lattices, which
were the background for the stage. Security person-
nel rushed onto the stage and pulled the act.

“We were just trying to have fun,” said Sigma Nu
pledge Matthew Herman. “Our intention was not to
destroy anything. By accident, things got out of hand.”

“I felt that the acts were tamer and more under control
than in past years, with two egregious exceptions,” said
Dean of the Freshman Program, Dennis G. Manning.
“[The majority] behaved more responsibly  Out of the
32 acts, there seemed to be a larger number than usual
that took time to prepare and rehearse their acts.”

“There was a lot of rowdy and artistic and creative

talent — there was truly a wide range,” said Manning, .
who has served on the panel of judges for SIX years.

Darrell had a slightly different perspective.

“I have some serious concerns about the conduct
of some ofthe acts,” Darrell said. “We are grateful
for the support of the spectators and acts, but we
need to address the other concerns. It was asking

Sanders takes
back advisees

BY LIZ DETTER

W&I.IFE EDITOR

The black and orange “For Rent” sign no longer hangs
on Professor of History 1. Taylor Sanders’ office door. A
black and white drawing of an aardvark.

“It’s my totem,” said Sanders.

The notice, which apprised his advisees that he would no
longer serve as an advisor, has been removed. In its place is a
new note, which states that Sanders will take back his advisees.

“Last week I was amazed and touched by how many of
you came by Newcomb and asked to remain as my advisees,”
reads the notice.

“It was a decision that was made on Thursday,” said Sand-
ers. “It’s really no big deal.”

‘‘I’m very happy that he agreed to remain my advisor,”
said one advisee who asked to remain annoymous.

Laurent Boetsch, Dean of the College, was also pleased
with Sanders’ decision. “I don’t think it comes as any sur-
prise. As long as I’ve been here, Professor Sanders has been
among the most dedicated and committed professors to his
students and teaching,” said Boetsch. ’

“I believe that Sanders has taken his advisees back, and is
using his oﬁice again, and I am glad that is so,” President John
Elrod said. “ It is very important for faculty members at Wash-
ington and Lee to be available to students outside class time, and
no-one has been more faithﬁil in doing that over a very long
career at Washington and Lee than Taylor Sanders.”

Sanders also reinstated office hours. He will be available
Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 1 1:10 to I 1:30 a.m.

When disaster strikes, your best last

 

SPORTS

PAGE 7

Men’s Basketball:
The Generals pulled off a
spectacular second—half
turnaround to beat
Emory & Henry 6362.

   

LAST WORD

ﬂing-tum   It

 

 

   J u.‘ Freshman Vanessa Chen, (1 Chi

Omega pledge, lip synchs to "Everybody Needs Somebody to Love,” from the movie “The Blues Brothers.”

Howsme H01/EV/B1070 [book

too much of security to control a crowd ofthat size
and that was with five full-time campus security of-
ficers, in addition to five student security [aids].” Ac-
cording to Darrell, there was some destruction back-
stage. A table was broken in half, some furniture “was
beaten up” and a lamp was also broken.

“I hate to put a damper on the evening, because ev-

eryone did a great job,” said Darrell. But, paying for
the damage done cut into the proceeds to S.A.R.A.H.

Manning offered a different perspective.

“The real significance of service to others gets lost
in the frenzy,” said Manning. “There is a real sense of
community spirit; the fraternities, sororities, MSA, in-
dependents. A lot of good comes out of it.”

Dutch Inn may reopen as beatnik coffee-house:

Spirit of revolution is back

BY WILL HARDIE
NEWS EDITOR

It takes revolutionary ideas to dislodge societies which,
wheels lodged finnly in the ruts oftradition, are trundling
inexorably toward decadence and stagnation. The Romans
never got their act together and bailed out of Rome in
A.D. 330. The French sorted themselves out in style in
1789, and heads rolled. A bunch ofguys in Lexington are
hoping that 1998 will be remembered as the year they
breathed some artistic and intellectual life back into their
town.

With the support of Scott Sayre, local entrepreneur and
modest philanthropist, a band ofWashington and Lee stu-
dents calling themselves the Rapscallions are planning to
convert the vacant Dutch Inn into a salon and coffee-house
which, they say, “would serve as a gathering place for the
exchange of ideas.”

Many students and others have welcomed the plan as
an alternative to the present social system at W&L, which
is limited in its potential for intellectual discourse and can
put pressure on students to use alcohol.

The dearth of fashionable and fun student venues that
are not connected with drinking is sure to have contrib-
uted to the alcohol—related medical and social problems
that are plaguing the university. Sayre had this in mind
when he got involved in the project. He has not been im-
pressed by the fraternities’ use of alcohol. “The impres-
sion the minority makes in glamorizing alcohol is good
for no-one. I see this as a possible alternative to the fra-
ternity scene and the glamorization of alcohol,” he said.

The health authorities agree. Tom Houlihan is director
of adult clinical services, responsible for the Lexington
alcohol and substance abuse program.

“I would very much support the development of any
kind of alternative for students. There certainly does seem
to be a lack of alternatives to using alcohol,” he said.

President John Elrod also approves of the venture. “It
is an intriguing concept and I got very enthusiastic about
it. It would be a wonderful asset to the community, not
just to W&L,” he said. Because it would provide a drink-
free atmosphere? “I think it’s a nice opportunity to give to
students to drink coffee and tea.”

The core purpose ofthe scheme is artistic and intellec-
tual. At a meeting of supporters Tuesday night, Chief Rap-
scallion Dow Harris, who originated the idea, said: “Lex-
ingtonjust doesn’t have a place where all the diverse fac-
ets of society can come toand musicians in Lexington.
There is talent here, there and everywhere that wants to
meet the students.”

30 students and ﬁve locals attended Tuesday’s mock-
secret meeting, the purpose of which was to gauge and
canvas support for the plan. The Rapscallions had handed
out scraps of paper reading, “Confidential ~ secret meet-
ing tonight  bring allies, don’t tell the enemy. Special
password: Pyrite.” The idea was to make the venue sound
exciting and subversive.

The students seemed enthusiastic. “W&L desperately
needs somewhere outside school to hang out,” said

‘CD SEE DUTCH PAGE 2

   

.....,_»,-  L.';Yi3 nu LIBHAHY
4/ASHINGTON 3. LEE UNIVERSE‘:
lﬁxiucamu. VA was -

Jiiisoisn 

Is your relationship going
 down the drain? When
 King John comes calling,
  feminine sensibilities get
flushed 

      
  
 

Bulk Rate
US l’ostage
PAII)
Pcnnit No. 7
Iexington. Va.

  

PAGE 8
Monday

6
JANUARY 26, 1998

Crowd surfer
unleashes
wave of ﬁlth

(CD Electrocution terror puts end to
Breakfast Club party

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

.\/lANAoII\'c. EDITOR

After the beer ran out at Friday’s Lip Synch and the
final strip-tease was performed, hordes of Washington and
Lee students headed over to Chi Psi to listen to the “Break-
fast Club.” Most left smelling bad and soaking wet. And
it wasn’t men that were raining.

Around 12:00 a.m., before the “Breakfast Club” had even
taken their first break, a W&L man was “crowd surfing."
While being tossed around by a group of students, he grabbed
one of the exposed pipes that line Chi Psi’s ceiling. It was
the emergency sprinkler pipe, and as soon as it was pulled
down, dirty, stagnant water gushed out and drenched every-
one in its path. Two inches accumulated in the basement
within minutes.

“I just want to dispel the rumorthat it was a sewer pipe,”
said Chi Psi President Russ Woody. “The water was just
dirty and had been in the pipe for a long time.”

Woody grabbed the pipe immediately and attempted
to turn offthe valve. “We couldn’t figure out which valve
turned it off,” he said.

Senior Kelsay Berland was standing next to the pipe
when it broke. “The water that first came out was very
muddy and smelly, but after that, the water was actually
pretty clean,” she said. “I was soaked."

“Everybody panicked and screamed, probably because
they were so many drunk people there,” Berland said.
“Some people headed for the door and some just stood
there and got even wetter.”

“People really overreacted, and were screaming that
there was gasoline in the water,” senior Megan Johnson
said. “Why would there be gasoline in the water? It wasn’t
even that disgusting or that foul.”

“We were just really worried about the electric current
from the band’s equipment,” said Chi Psi President Russ
Woody. “But luckily they pulled the plug right away.” No
damage was caused to the band’s equipment.

“I’m just surprised that no one got electracuted,”
Berland said. “I jumped up on the wooden stage because I
didn’t want to get fried.”

She says that the situation was compounded by the large
number of people packed into the fraternity to see the popu-
lar ’80s band.

“There were just so many people there, pushing against
each other,” Berland said. “A lot of people had bruises on
their legs from pushing into the partition they put in front

Ii) sea WATER Pier 6

   

  

 I    gun,
Wutospeak

. . I NEWS EDITOR

; , ' ;;Preside‘nts-John Eirodwas astonished when he heard
‘ the ne’y§s.1“My mouth’ dropped open when I saw that
,they’d got Harry Wu. Ithink it’s fantastic, I’m de-
lighted,” he said. J
5 The world~renowned Chinese dissident and promi-
nent human rights activist will visit Washington and
Leeion Thursday. He will give a speech in the Northen
zauditorium‘ 7.30, p.rn., as part of W&L’s observance
. of Captive Nations Week.

The conviction that has made Wu one of the world’s
most outspoken dissidents is rooted in cruel experi-
ence. While a student at Beijing College, Wu was de-
nounced as“a “rightis ” and sentenced to life impris-
onment for questioning communism. The year was
1956; Wu was 19 years old. He spent the next 23 years
of his life in labor camps, where the Communist gov-
ernment attempted to “reform him through labor.”
They failed.

Wu was released in 1979 at the age of 42, and in
1985 he came to the United States determined to ex-
pose the system that had enslaved him along with
nearly 50 million other Chinese since 1949. He has
branded the Iaogai gulag system “the biggest use of
slavery this century,” and compared it to the Nazi and
Soviet concentration camps.

China has more than 1000 gulags and slave labor
camps, more than the Soviet Union had when
Solzhenitsyn wrote The Gulag Archipelago, accord-
ing to the W&L Captive Nations Week website,
www.wlu.edu/~freedom/. In 1992 Wu founded the
Laogai Research Foundation to expose to the world
the injustice of the system he says uses slave labor to
produce products exported all over the world, inc lud-

 

 

PAGE 2

  

 

  

an ;gg;ii}érizlizetfor you if
statﬁments: A

,.{I,’.a,bst
so much rahrrtj. g g
. at.,.thatbig Whit¢:§1attice“. .
j   the stage

  . And whenet;9.¢r£4iI¢ Per
.i;,.¢€'.1@.i?? 115516139
1}, ‘jingltan Austin Powers 0

   

  

    
2‘313399998i1P¢’C¢i1t”inak¢d

;   riobsérﬁiiggi.  .l;i,;;k,;;,f_Le_1_g
pulled on stagejby the KD.girls.

'    up onstagé
, but youknow, ustbouldn?
“ see me'.cuzial1qof.those. 

 
 

 
    
     
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
   

I1€WS

Clinton pledges
work-study cash

BY WILL HARDIE
 NEW'S EDITOR

President Clinton wants to spend
an extra $70 million on the federal
work-study program, but quite how
that might affect Washington and Lee
students remains to be seen. Clinton
called it “an opportunity to help us
build the promise of America,” but
Washington and Lee Director of Fi-
nancial Aid John DeCourcy said, “The
effect will be negligible on the indi-
vidual students.”

If Congress approves Clinton’s
budget proposal, the federal govem—
ment will spend an extra $70 million
on the Federal College Work Pro-
gram, which currently helps pay for
the college education of more than
940,000 students across the nation.
According to a White House statement
this is one of the greatest investments
in higher education in the past 50
years. Clinton’s proposals have the
tentative support of both parties in
Congress, though the Republicans are
cautious about overspending.

330 W&L students currently re-
ceive ﬁnancial aid from the Federal
College Work Program. The Univer-
sity received $172,000 for the pro-
gram in 1997, which it topped up by
25 percent.

Federal work-study is separate

 DUTCH

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

A Sophomore Jessica Helm. She said

she had been pleasantly surprised to
meet many like-minded students
whom she didn’t already know.

The organizers still need to
raise a large amount of cash be-
fore the scheme can go ahead, but
they are optimistic that they will
find a way. “We need a major
miracle at this point,” said Sayre.
“We need $200,000 to fall out of
the sky. Financially the best thing
to do would be to level it and do
Something else with the land, un-
less you’ve got the Chinese army
to do all the work. Well it looks

from the W&L work program, on
which 58 students have jobs on cam-
pus to help support their study.

It is unclear how the situation at
W&L would change were funding in-
creased. Even if Clinton obtained the
$70 million he wants, nationally this
would be worth only $7.45 per cur-
rent recipient. If Clinton’s extra dol-
lars were shared out equally among
work-study programs nationally, ac-
cording to the number of students on
each program, W&L would receive a
$2500 increase, to $174,500. Finan-
cial Aid assistant Kim Ruscio said the
department hopes for $180,000 in
1998.

This much cash could be used to
fund 15 more work-study places at the
current rate. But how any increase in
funding is to be spent will depend on
federal guidelines. Ruscio said it is
likely that Clinton will concentrate on
the community service program,
through which Federal work-study
students work as volunteers on local
community literacy training schemes.
32 W&L students are participating in
11 such local schemes this year.

“We will just have to wait and
see,” said Ruscio. DeCourcy was
more skeptical. “I really don’t
think it will have have a large
impact,” he said.

like we’ve got the Chinese army,
with all the support we’re get-
ting.”

The original concept for the
plan was based on the salons of
17th-and 18th-century France,
which were the breeding-grounds
of the ideas that sparked the
French Revolution. Harris hopes
the Dutch Inn salon would revive
just such intellectual vigor and
vitality in Lexington. “It would
be a cultural thoroughfare where
artistic creativity would flourish.”
As he writes in his proposal, ‘‘It
would be a bazaar where dancing
ideas would be able to find part-
ners.”

JANUARY 26, 1998

 

VA COOL TO HOST AMERICORP TRAINING

Jay White ’96 and VA COOL, the Virginia Campus Outreach Opportunity League,
a non-profit organization located on the campus of the University of Richmond, will
host a training session for VA COOL Americorps members Friday Jan. 30 through
Sunday Feb. 1.

Workshops focusing on Conflict Mediation, Mental Health Assesment, Team-Build-
ing, Grant-Writing, and Relaxation Techniques will be held Sat. Jan. 31 in Commerce
School room 221 and Sunday Feb. 1 in UC 114. The Washington and Lee community
is invited to attend the workshops, but space will be limited. Saturday afternoon, VA
COOL and individuals from the W&L community will be participating in an afternoon
of community service at the Mayﬂower Retirement Home on North Main Street. Call
804-289-8009 or e-mail Jay White atjwhite2@richmond.edu for reservations and fur-
ther information.

VA COOL is the statewide ofﬁce for collegiate voluntarism. W&L became a mem-
ber in 1997.

SUMMER PROGRAM, ST. ANNE’S COLLEGE

Washington and Lee is one of six area schools that sponsor a summer program at St.
Anne’s College, Oxford, England. The Virginia Program at Oxford uses the English
tutorial system to study the literature and history of Tudor and Stuart England. The
course will run from July 6 to August 15, 1998. The application deadline is March 2.
There is some scholarship aid available. The cost ofthe program is $3,850 which cov-
ers full tuition, room, board and group excursions for the six-week program. See Prof.
Pamela Simpson in the art department for more information.

KEEN TO SPEAK ON CONTEMPORARY FICTION BY

WOMEN, RECEPTION WILL FOLLOW

Professor Suzanne Keen, from W&L’s English department, will speak on Thursday
Jan. 29 at 7:30 p.m. in room 221 of the Commerce School. Her lecture will be entitled
“Contemporary Fiction by Women.” A reception will follow, and the public is wel-
come. The lecture is sponsored by Xi Pi Xi Society, an independent women’s organi-
zation at W&L. For more information, contact Robing Seaton, Xi Pi Xi Society Trea-
surer, via e-mail or on 462-4562.

SCIENCE LECTURE ON “NEUROPSYCHOLOGY OF

ANXIETY,” PUBLIC INVITED TO ATTEND

Jeffrey A. Gray will give a lecture in room A214 of the New Science Center on
Wednesday Jan. 28 at 4:30 p.m. Gray is head ofthe psychology department at Maudsley
Hospital’s lnstitue for Psychiatry at the University of London. His lecture is entitled,
“What’s Where in the Neuropsychology of Anxiety.” The lecture is sponsored by the
New Science Center Dedication Committee, which is responsible for organizing ac-
tivities to celebrate W&L’s new science facilities. The public is invited to attend.

CONTINUE) ONPAGE6

THE FORCE OF IDEAS

Meet representatives from
The Advisory Board Company
and learn more about our
Research Associate position.

W WEDNESDAY, IANUARY 28, 1998
W UNIVERSITY CENTER, RooM 114

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY .
W 7:00 P.M. ’

g Honest Conduct’
Servant3Heart I 2
Surplus Value I ,
Team Engagement  _i
Spiritof Generosity V ;
Ethic0fHard Work ii
Constant Growth
. ThePowerof.
Language C
RunningToWard ’
Qriticisrrr A ' "

THE ADVISORY BOARD COMPANY
The Watergate, 600 New Hampshire AVe., N.W.
Washington, DC 20037-2403

For additional information, please visit our Web site at
www.advisory.com

An Equal Opportunity Employer

 

 

JANUARY 26, 1998

 

BLOW OUT OF TOWN and leave the stress of schoolwork behind during
Washington Holiday. ARTBY H()1.IJSTER H0l7§Y

Students make a
break in February

BY KEiii3Y TOI'IH\I

STAFF Wanna

ashington Holi
day traditionally
provides Wash
ington and Lee
students with
time to get away from the grind and
escape Lexington. While some stu-
dents will forget their studies and en-
joy their vacations during February
break, some motivated seniors will turn
the break into opportunities for their
futures as rock stars or stockbrokers.

Underpants Cowboy, comprised of
W&L rockers Jimmy Angel (stage name
for James Angelos), Jed Hazlett, Greg
Chow and Matt O’Brien, will launch its
kick-off tour in the Southeast.

“It’s pretty low—budget,” said
Angelos. “We’ll probably be sleep-
ing in the actual car and eating fast
food, like Jim Morrison when he first
started out.”

While Underpants roams the
Southeast in search of listeners, eco-
nomics major Helen
Kim will be gearing
up for the corporate
world. Junior Laura
Cohen and senior
.-Dana Hood will head
for Mexico to wor-
ship the sun, and a
group of freshmen
will play in the pow-
der in New York.

The band will
travel in two cars:
Angelos’ Buick
LeSabre and Hazlett’ s
Oldsmobile. “Greg is
not allowed to drive
in North Carolina for
various traffic violations,” said Angelos
of Chow, who received a speeding ticket
in Yadkinville, N.C.

“They said my privileges to oper-
ate a motor vehicle in North Carolina
have been revoked,” Chow said. He
refuses to pay the $25 fee to reinstate
his license.

Angelos, vocalist and rhythm gui-
tarist, doubles as the manager, “sort-
of,” for the band. “That’s our problem-
we need a manager,” he said. “We’re
rockers, were bad at organization.”

Right now, the band has only one
venue booked. Underpants will end
(and perhaps start) the tour Saturday,
Feb. 21, in Charlottesville at the To-
kyo Rose. The band plans, tentatively,
to travel through North Carolina,
South Carolina and Georgia. If
Angelos does not find any places to
play, the band will probablyjust show
up on people’s doorsteps, ready to
play, he said.

“It’ll be a rock’em, sock’em, good
time,” said Chow.

Underpants will use their perfor-
mance this Thursday in the Pit at 8:30
as a warrn-up for the trip. “We’re hon-
ing our scales down and working out
the kinks for the World Tour,” said
Angelos.

O’Brien, Underpants’ percussion-
ist, who describes their music as a
“jazzy, sexy, eclectic feel with
an undercurrent of

 

  
 
 
 
  
 

electric shock therapy,” thinks the tour
will attract some professional recogni-
tion.

“I hope that we can just meet some
record executives,” said O’Brien, “and
spread the word of the imminent Top-
40 status of Underpants Cowboy.”

The seniors have been playing
music together, just fooling around,
since they started at W&L. They
formed the band this fall when solo
guitarist Chow brought his drum set
to school for O’Brien to play. Accord-
ing to Angelos, the name was bassist
Jed Hazlett’s idea.

“Jed believes that there’s a cow-
boy in everyone of us, just beneath
the surface,” explained Angelos, “just
like underpants.”

If the band proves to be a huge
success, Underpants would like to
continue the tour internationally this
summer. Band members boast that the
group is already a mega-hit abroad.
According to Angelos, grass-roots
distribution has resulted in a huge fol-
lowing in Ireland.

“We’re really, re-
ally big in Belgium
right now,” claims
O’Brien.

While Under-
pants roams the
Southeast in search
of listeners, eco-
nomics major Helen
Kim will begearing

up for the corporate
world.

Kim will spend
Monday through
Friday of February
break working 8 a.m.
to 6 p.m. for Morgan
Stanley/Dean Witter, a brokerage firm
in Washington, D.C.

“I suppose it’s a taste of the real
world—— for what’s to come in June,”
Kim said. “I will basically be a gopher
for my February break.”

The first weekend of the break, Feb.
13-15, Kim willjoin some friends in
Wintergreen, Va. at senior Hillary
Martin’s cabin.

“We’ll go skiing, rentsappy mov-
ies, and drink a lot of hot chocolate.
We’ll also be complaining about
Valentine’s Day,” said Kim, who de-
scribes her fellow vacationers as a
“Valentine support group.”

Kim will head home to Fairfax, Va.
Sunday night to be at work bright and
early Monday morning. But working
through a vacation isn’t new for Kim;
she spent the two weeks of Christmas
break with Dean Witter. When she was
hired, the company asked when she
would be available and Kim gave them
her calendar.

“I told them about my 2 breaks in
winter and spring, which was a huge
mistake,” said Kim. In retrospect, she
thinks it might have been a better idea
to havejust told them she was free in
the spring. But she figures that giv-
ing up both of her vacations should
pay off in the future.

“It looks good if I look like a hard,
committed worker,” Kim said. “Pay
your price now, so life is a little
easier later.”

Whether they are role-
playing in the real world or
performing at anonymous
venues around the

Southeast, these se-
niors will work to-
wards their future dur-
ing February break
while junior Laura
Cohen and senior
Dana Hood are taking
their sunscreen to the
beaches of Cabo San

PAGE 5

W&life

The condom broke?
Maybe it’s not too late

 

BY GINGER PHHJJPS

STAFF Wanna

guess we just weren ’t prepared. . . I thought we were being safe, but
the condom broke. . . Sure, I ‘m on birth control. I just forget to take it

sometimes. . . What if I 'm pregnant?

The best way to prevent an unwanted pregnancy is the consistent use
of a contraceptive before sex, but sometimes that plan is never made or
simply goes awry. There are many cases in which contraception fails, but in
more than half of the cases of unintentional pregnancy in the United States,
no contraception was used at all However, a drug can be used to prevent
pregnancy after unprotected sexual intercourse has already taken place.

Last year the Food and Drug Administration approved a combination of
two drugs called the emergency contraceptive pill, commonly known as “the
moming-after pill.” The name of this dnig is misleading because the moming-
after pill can actually be used effectively up to 72 hours after unprotected sex.
This emergency treatment consists of two high doses of combination birth
control pills which work before a woman has become pregnant. The first dose,
administered within the first 72 hours after intercourse, is followed by a sec-
ond dose twelve hours later. Women who are unable to take regular birth
control pills are also advised not to seek this treatment.

The pills work by altering the signals that govern hormone release. “The
pill changes the hormonal environment to make impregnation less likely to
occur if there is a fertilized egg,” says Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Health
Services. The fertilized egg is pre-
vented from being implanted inside
the uterus, where it would normally
grow into an embryo. Because the
pill stops implantation, timing is
essential for its success.

The emergency contraception
pill is not to be confused with RU-
486, the so-called “abortion pill.”
RU-486 induces abortion of an im-
planted embryo when used within
the early stages of pregnancy.
Available in Europe and Japan, it
has not been approved by the FDA
for use in the U.S.

The morning after pill has
proven to be very effective. Dur-
ing a woman’s most fertile time of
the month—the five days before
and during ovulation—the risk of
becoming pregnant is about 30 per-
cent. The moming-after pill can reduce that risk by 70 to 90 percent. During
the last ten years of use here at W&L, the pill has only failed once. By
using the treatment, a woman will not know whether or not she would have
become pregnant, the pills may not actually be doing anything at all. How-
ever, with even the slightest possibility of a pregnancy, the pills can pre-
vent the unwanted results of unprotected sex.

About one-third of women experience side effects like nausea, vomiting
and tenderness of the breasts. If the user is unable to keep the pill down, anti-
nausea drugs should be taken before the treatment is repeated. As with most
drugs, there exists the possibility of serious health problems, but none have
been reported in connection with the use of the morning after pill.

C6

The SHC staff doesn ’t
make you feel uncom-
fortable at all. I was
embarrassed, but'z't’s
deﬁnitely better to be
embarrassed than to
be pregnant.

- Anonymous student

77

The Student Health Center offers the moming-after treatment. If a student
wishes to seek treatment, she must go to the SHC as soon as possible and within 72
hours after having unprotected sex. It is not necessary to explain the reason for the
visit until she meets with the nurse or doctor, and the visit is strictly confidential.
The student must sign a consent form before the pills can be administered. Many
students may neglect treatment out of fear of embarrassment. “The SHC staff
doesn’t make you feel uncomfortable at all. I was embanassed, but it’s definitely
better to be embarrassed than to be pregnant,” said a student under the condition
of anonymity.

Many W&L students are unaware
that the moming-after pill is offered
here. Dr. Horton says that dorm coun-
selors are educated about the treat-
ment and that programs such as LIFE
try to inform incoming freshmen about
the consequences of and solutions to

unsafe sex. However, the treatment is cur. Dr. Horton be_
not widely advertised around campus.

“After 1 took the pill, Iwas talking with “eves that 1/1 is is due
a male friend ofmine about it, and he to th e excessive

had no idea what I was talking about,” amo unt of drinking

the same student said. “There are a _
lot of people who don’t know about that goes 0}’! during
these times. ”

the pill. I spent almost three years here
before I heard about it.”

During the 1996-1997 school year,
the moming—aftertreatment was administered 63 times. So farthis year 32
treatments have been given, almost double the amount given in the same
period of time last year. The numbers indicate that more women are seeking
treatment during months in which major W&L social functions occur. Dr.
Horton believes that this is due to the excessive drinking that goes on
during these times. “Alcohol clouds people’s judgements and affects their
appropriate use of contraceptives,” Dr. Horton said. As Fancy Dress nears,
students need to think about the consequences and responsibilities that
can come with bad decisions such as unprotected sex.

The moming-after pill is equivalent to a high dosage of regular birth
control pills. However, the amount of regular pills a student must take
depends on the brand of the pills. While the moming-after pill is what
Horton calls “a wonderful addition to help women with their health needs,”
it is not safe to use as a routine fonn of birth control.

“I only took it once, and I feel that there are probably some people here
that use it as an actual birth control method, and that is not good,” an
anonymous W&L student said. “It is a privilege to have as a service, but
it should not be abused.” She believes that girls should learn something
from their treatment. “You should only make that mistake once—vnot many

“... more women are
seeking treatment
during months in
which major W&L
social functions oc-

 

times,” she said.

(I3 THE MORNING-

AFTER PILL is actually a
series of pills. During the

1 996-1 997 school year, the
treatment was administered
63 times. Pnoro FROM

WWW. 1-‘IRSTC UT. COM

 

CD See TRAVEL page 4

GARRICK OHLSSON will entertain students and faculty Tuesday in the
Lenfest Center. PR1-.‘SS1’H()’l‘()

Concert Guild brings
Ohlsson to Lenfest

PRESS RELEASE
B-HFILB

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Concert Guild will present pianist
Garrick Ohlsson in a performance at 8
p.m. Tuesday in the Lenfest Center.

Ohlsson will open the program with
Beethoven’s Sonata No. 18 in E-ﬂat
Major, followed by Prokofiev’s Sonata
No. 8 in B-ﬂat Major. The remainder of
the program will be works by Chopin:
Ballade No. 2 in F Major, Six Etudes from
Op. 25, Nocturne in F Minor and
Scherzo No.2 in b-ﬂat Minor.

Ohlsson has long been regarded as
one ofthe world’s leading exponents
ofthe music Chopin, although his rep-
ertoire encompasses virtually the en-
tire piano literature. He is also noted
for his masterly performances of the
works of Mozart, Beethoven and
Schubert, as well as music ofthe late
Romantic era. During the 1994-95 and
1995-96 seasons, he gained accolades
for his sold-out cycles ofthe complete
solo works of Chopin performed in
New York City, Toronto, Ann Arbor
and Purchase, NY. He will repeat these
programs this season in London, Paris,
and Warsaw.

He has recorded the complete solo
works of Chopin for Arabesque, as well

as other recordings on Arabesque,
RCA Victor Red Seal, Angel, Bridge.
BMG, Delos, Hanssler, Nonesuch.
Telarc and Virgin Classics labels.

A native of White Plains, N.Y.,
Ohlsson began his piano studies at
the age of eight. He attended the
Westchester Conservatory of Music
and at 13 entered The Julliard School
in New York.

Although he won First Prizes at the
1966 Busoni Competition in Italy and
1968 Montreal Piano Competition, it
was his 1970 triumph as the Gold
Medal winner at the Chopin Competi-
tion in Warsaw that brought him
worldwide recognition as one of the
finest pianists of his generation. He
also won the Avery Fisher Prize in the
Spring of I994.

Ohlsson has appeared as soloist
with many major symphony orches-
tras in the U.S. and in Europe. He is
also an avid chamber musician and.
together with violinist Jorja Fleezanis
and cellist Michael.

Grebanier, is a founding member of
the San Francisco-based FOG Trio.

Tickets are required for W&L’s
Concert Guild Series. For more infor-
mation and reservations. call the
Lenfest Box Office at 463-8000.

 

 

PAGE 4

(D THE

PICTURES OF
THE YEAR will
be on display in ‘
Leybum Library
until the end of
January. The
53rd annual
competition is
sponsored by
the National
Press
Photographers
Association and
the Missouri
School of
Journalism.
H()l.l.lS7ER HoVi:r/
PHOTO E/)I7oR

Photojournalism on display in Leyburn

BY CHRISFINA JULIAN
STAFF \WRl'I‘ER

Standing beneath a multitude of hungry outstretched

hands, a small child hoping to receive a meal gazes
into the crowd.

This picture, by Carol Guzy of The Washington Post,
made her Newspaper Photographer of the Year in “Pic-
tures of the Year,” the 53rd annual competition sponsored
by the National Press Photographers Association and the
Missouri School of Journalism. Washington and Lee stu-
dents have a unique opportunity to see the best pictures
of the year, on display in Leybum Library.

The exhibit, on the main and ﬁrst ﬂoors, will remain in
the library until the end of January. Though journalism
students may find the display particularly interesting, the
pictures are “useful to the wider University community,”

said Hampden Smith, professor of journalism. “They con-
front all of us with the information newspapers give us.
We are able to look at the most dramatic and interesting
photographs which define our time.”

Who could forget the picture from the Oklahoma City
bombing of the fireﬁghter carrying out a small child? Pow-
erful photography leaves an impression on one’s mind
that lingers long after the headlines or stories. “The dis-
play allows us to see and recognize that images we keep in
our head remind us of the good and bad,” said Smith.

“Pictures of the Year” has come to W&L for three years,
and the Journalism Department plans to host the traveling
exhibit again next year.

Smith advised anyone ﬁirther interested in photojournalism
to visit the famous photos on displayuat the Associated Press
Museum in Arlington for its 150th anniversary celebration.

 

W&life

"lncrediblg maTure "his vocal Ta|enT and "...ThoughT provoking
and sophisticated abiliTg on guitar original Tunes that are
songvm-ring" give a strength and Top quayfg"

individual ﬂovor
~ MUSC Reviews Ton familar and: -Bd,mmd Music
imeless Tunes Journal

Quarterlg
~ Rdimond Music
Joumal

APPEARING l|'I'

F73/D/IV JANUARY 30 9.00 //V THE PA V/l/0/V.

(BEE/2 GARDEN)
SPONSORED ray THE OFF/CE OF S71/DE/\/M67/l//7/ES

I.IIIII( EIIII 'I'IIE IIELEASE III‘ THE
PAT IVIl:IiEE Bl|IlII’S NEW
Illl Ill EEBIIIIAIIY 1997!

JANUARY 26, 1998

ILDTRAVEL

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

Lucas, along the Baja strip in Mexico.

“It’s nice to get away to some place
warm,” said Cohen, who has spent her
past February breaks in St. Lucia and
the Grand Cayman Islands. “We’ll get
a lot of sleep and get a lot of sun.”

Cohen is getting the thrill of vaca-
tioning along with the benefits
of home: she’ 11 get to see her
parents. They knew they
couldn’t get their daugh-  
ter to come home for break, s4
so instead, they’ decided to g o
to the same place. They’re also foot-
ing the bill.

It’s somewhat like bribery, said
Cohen, but she doesn’t mind. Her par-
ents will be celebrating their twenty-
sixth wedding anniversary and it gives
her the opportunity to combine cel-
ebrating with them and vacationing
with a friend. Plus, the parental watch-
dogs will be staying in a different ho-
tel, allowing Cohen and Hood freedom,

without consequences, to check out
the club scene.

When asked if she would set aside
some time from the fruity beverages
and sandy beaches to crack open a
book, Cohen laughed. “I’ll bring [my
work], butl probably won’t do it,” she
said.

While Cohen and Hood are playing
with the colorful umbrellas in their drinks,
eight freshmen will be a d d i n g
marshmallows to their hot
chocolates in

  
    
  
 
   

upstate New York

Freshman Kim Russell has invited
seven friends up to her grandmother’s
sinnrner home on Big WolfLake, near Lake
Placid. Since her grandmother is not there
for the winter, they will have the entire
house to themselves.

Raijah Yarborough, Alexis Yee-
Garcia, Meredith Bryk, Max Ivankov,
Tyler Green, Scott Meister and Pat
Renton willjoin Russell to go skiing,
hang out by the fireplace and relax.

The group of friends has chummed
about together since the beginning of
the school year. They are inseparable,
said Bryk, and the house is just big
enough to give them all a little space.
Bryk is looking forward to spending
time outside of school with everyone.

“Some do [ski], some don’t,” she
said. “We’re all going to learn.”

With eight people, transportation to
upstate New York will prove a bit tricky.
“The plans change daily,” Bryk

said. She and her boyfriend,
Renton, will catch a ride up
to her home in Connecticut,
get her little brother’s car, and then
drive up to New York.

Meister will go home first, then ﬂy
up to meet everyone while the ﬁve oth-
ers will pile in Russell’s car for the trek.

Although this vacation is noth-
ing new for Bryk, who has always
had this week offin high school, she
still appreciates it. Bryk has quickly
learned the reason behind students’
elaborate, and sometimes outra-
geous, February break plans: “Be-
ing in Lexington all winter long
seems to make people stir crazy.”

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee

Counselors for Summer Scholars

July 5-31,1998

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program for 140 rising high
school seniors. Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 students in
Graham-Lees dormitory and plan evening and week-end activities.

Application deadline is February 24, 1998

Special Programs Resident Assistants
June 18-August 5, 1998

The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L students to serve as
Resident Assistants for a wide variety of Special Programs including
Alumni Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar receptions, and shuttle
driving. An outgoing personality is a must.
Application deadline, March 15, 1998

For further information, please contact the Office of Special Programs,
Howard House, 463-8723

IIAEELE

For the use of President Elrod’s Parking space
on the hill until the end of the winter tenn

Rafﬂe Tickets
1 for $3.00
2. for $5.00

January 19th - 23rd

in front of the Co-op

Yllll llllll IIIIHIIEE I'I' IIIIME !!

Proceeds go to.....

A HABITAT run l|IlIVIlIIlI'I'Y  

Students...

D
a

Join us for our Super Buffet, only

$5 .99, every Thursday-Saturday night

and Sunday brunch. Every Monday
night students receive 10% off all
entrees. Drink specials available every
weeknight. Delivery available daily with 10% off

to all students

535)

ti-i;......,..9..,..i....<ii.-....rs..,.Cirwi.i...a..i

(behind McDonalds)

463-3330

 

  

JANUARY 26, 1998

RESULTS

Men’s Basketball (8-6)
Wed.: _W&L 65
E&H 62
Women’s Basketball
(7-7)
Tues.: Bridgewater 66
W&L 51
Thur.: W&L 61
Guilford 77
Women’s Swimming
(7-3)
Wed.: W&L 138
Radford 97
Sun.: W&L Late
Emory
W&L Late
Johns Hopkins
Men’s Swimming
(5-3)
Sun.: Johns Hopkins Late
W&L
Emory Late
W&L
Wrestling
W&L Invitational:
4th of 7 teams

AHEAD

Monday

Women’s Basketball —
Emory & Henry,

7:00 p.m., Warner Center

Wednesday

Men’s Basketball —
Hampden—Sydney,

7:30 p.m., Warner Center

Thursday
Women’s Basketball -
at RMWC, 7:00 p.m.

Saturday

Men’s Basketball —
Guilford,

2:00 p.m., Warner Center

Women’s Basketball ——
Guilford,
noon, Warner Center

M&W Swimming -
at Mary Washington,
2:00 p.m.

Wrestling —

W&L Quad
(Swarthmore, Ursinus,
West. Md.), 11:00 a.m.,
Doremus Gym

Men rally from 14
point deficit to
beat E&H 65-62

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
-j‘*1=“*:‘ SPORTS VY/Rmaz

Men’s basketball coach Kevin
Moore says this years Generals bas-
ketball team is a different kind of team
than years past.

On Wednesday night there was
even more evidence that the Generals
are for real when W&L pulled off an
unbelievable second half comeback
that left both Emory & Henry and the
rest ofthe King Center in shock.

Rich Peterson scored 17 of his sea-
son—high 23 points in the second half
as the Generals overcame a 36-22
halftime deﬁcit to down the Wasps
65-62 in Emory, Va. The win im-
proved the Generals to 8-6 overall and
5-3 in the ODAC as they prepare for
their showdown with first place
Hampden—Sydney on Wednesday
night

“This year our team is different,”
commented Moore. “We have so
much more conﬁdence and we have
a lot more character. If that was last
year’s team or even the year before,
we would have given up at halftime.”

Emory & Henryjumped out to the
first halflead behind the hot shooting
of Patrick Moore, who hit four three-
pointers in the first half and ﬁnished
with 15 points for the game. Sloppy
play and poor execution contributed
to the Generals’ first half deﬁcit.
Coach Moore was upset with the play
of his team at halftime and let his play-
ers know about it.

“1 did a little yelling at halftime and
let the guys know how bad a half they
played,” said Moore. “We played as

bad a half as you could play.”

But as bad as the Generals played
in the first half, they turned it around
and showed some of their best bas-
ketball in the second half. Tremen-
dous play by sophomore Rich
Peterson, freshman Will Ballard, and
senior captain Kelly Dyer brought the
Generals charging back and put them
in position to pull off the comeback.

“I was really pleased the way the
guys stepped it up in the second half,”
said Moore. “Kelly [Dyer] came up
with some huge shots, Rich [Peterson]

had his best game of the year, and Will .

[Ballard]gave us a huge boost.”
Ballard finished with 15 points and

ﬁve steals for the Generals while Dyer

added 12, including a series of piv-

otal base line jumpers down the .

stretch. W&L took the lead for the
first time, 62-60, after freshman
Ballard made an impressive open-
court steal and lay-up with less than
2:00 remaining. Eric Owsley ex-
tended the lead to 63-60 with a free-
throw before Emory & Henry’s
Donald Thurston scored on a lay-up
with 47 seconds left to make the score
63-62.

With 15 seconds left in the game
and the shot clock running down,
Dyer buried a 15-footer from the left
baseline to give the Generals a 65-62
lead. E&H had two chances to tie the
score as they got off two three-point
attempts but couldn’t ﬁnd the net; they
walked off shocked at the events in
the closing minutes.

Now all eyes turn to Wednesday
night as W&L hosts first place

PAGE 5

Hampden—Sydney, who have only lost
twice all year, once against the Gen-
erals, 44-42 in early December. The
Tigers hadn’t lost a game from that
defeat by W&L until Saturday night,
when they lost 80-75 to the same
Emory & Henry team W&L beat last
Wednesday.

“lt’s a big game, but I told the guys

we have nothing to lose,” commented
Moore. “We already beat them once
and they’re supposed to win. All the
pressure is on them, not to mention
we’re playing them at home.”

Tip-offis at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday
at the Warner Center. W&L will also
host Guilford College at the Warner
Center Saturday at 2:00 p.m.

Elway, Broncos and AFC end frustration

At 9:45 pm. last night, hellfroze over.

For the ﬁrst time in be last 14 years,
an AFC team won the Super Bowl.
When the Los Angeles Raiders beat the
Washington Redskins 38-9, for an AFC
team’s last championship in 1984,
Rockwell and Wham! were still popu-
lar, nobody had yet hard of Geraldine
Ferraro and Jim Bakker still wanted
your money. I only vaguely remem-
ber watching that game, and it certainly
would have been hard to fathom that I
would be a senior in college before an
AFC team won again.

THE BIG FAN

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER

Would you like to work at a
Wyoming Guest Ranch this summer?

The A-Bar-A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of southern Wyoming,
surrounded by national forest and wilderness area. We have openings in all
areas of guest services. If you are available from early June to late August or
the end of September, we would like to talk with you about the possibility of
working with us this summer. The manager, Bob Howe, will be interviewing
on campus February 2. To arrange an interview or get an application check
at the Careers Ofﬁce. Or, check us out on—line and get an application at:
www.coolworks.com/a-bar—a/default.him Questions? Call (303) 838-1950 or

While the AFC has been frustrated
for all these years, one of the teams most
indicative of this frustration was the
Denver Broncos. Before the Buffalo
Bills came along, the Broncos were
identified as the epitome of a choker.
They lost the Super Bowl three times
during the ’80s. Counting the one they
lost in 1978, the Broncos would have
set a record with five Super Bowl losses
if they had dropped this year’s game.

But when John Mobley batted away
Brett Farve’s fourth and six pass to seal

email us at: abararanc/1@a0l.c0m.

- Denver’s 3 1-24 victory over the Green :

Bay Packers, all the frustration came
to a halt. For the AFC, the Broncos
and especially John Elway. The quar-
terback who has won the most regular
season games ever could never even
come close in the big one, and who
gave him a chance this year?

The Packers had demolished San
Francisco on the road, had a three-time
MVP at quarterback and were 12-point
favorites against a four-time Super
Bowl loser. Green Bay had never lost
a Super Bowl. Was there any doubt?

I told anybody who asked me in
the last few days that I thought Den-
ver would either win or at least keep
the game close. And no, I’m not just
saying that in a paﬂietic attempt to look
smart. This year, the Broncos ﬁelded
the most gutsy and complete team that
the AFC has seen in more than a de-
cade. After all, they became the first
wild card team since the 1980 Raiders
to win the Super Bowl. In doing so,
they completed a revenge tour by beat-
ing the team that knocked them out of
the playoffs last year (Jacksonville),
two teams that beat them this year
(Kansas City and Pittsburgh) and then
winning the elusive Super Bowl.

Denver had the type of team

condusive to keeping the Super Bowl
close, because unlike previous AFC
representatives, the Broncos were not
one—dimensional. This year, they had
Terrell Davis, a solid offensive line and
a decent defense. The ironic thing about
last night’s game was that Elway was
nowhere near his best. He was an un-
spectacular 12 for 22 for 123 yards and
threw a costly interception in the end
zone. The Broncos still managed to win.

They can thank Davis for that. Talk
about guts. This guy sat out the second
quarter with a migraine and still rushed
for 157 yards and a record three touch-
downs. Time and time again, he pierced
the heart of the vaunted Packers de-
fense. The victory was certainly no
ﬂuke. Denver did what it had to do by
pressuring Favre into making several
bad decisions, and it dominated Green
Bay at the line of scrimmage.

ygetting warmer

If you had a choice, wouldn’t you choose fresh, hot food over food
that's been left sitting under heat lamps? Then choose Subway,

where you can get our Steak 8c Cheese, Subway Melt or our
Roasted Chicken sub, hot and fresh on bread that’s just out of the

0VC1'l.

110

 

tilt

www.subway.com
- Nu" l)Ht’It>[’~.\\~u\I.ll\'~lllt

Subway Sandwiches & Salads
453 E. Nelson St.

Lexington

Regardless of the outcome, it was a
wonderful game to watch. Green Bay
showed plenty of guts themselves,
twice erasing deﬁcits, and had every fan
on the edge of his seat during their ﬁ-
nal drive. And Bill Romanowski didn’t
even spit on anyone. Finally, a game
worthy of being a Super Bowl!

Although it was nice for sentimen-
tal reasons to see Denver and Elway
ﬁnally get the money offtheir backs,
it was also nice to see the AFC losing
streak broken. The streak has been
over-hyped in recent years, making
it sound like the AFC was an inferior
conference against the NFC. Now the
NFL is back to square one, and writ-
ers and fans can focus on the teams
next year instead of the streak. Hope-
fully that will still be the casein 2010
when the NFC again wins the Super
Bowl 

(‘gin

    

THE
suB.ii.iii.:r
SHOULD BE.

 

phone:
(540)463-3322

All set and ready
for Spring to arrive

Pre-season All-American
Ed Dougherty leads the
#11 Generals towards the
elusive NCAA tournament
bid. Here, Dougherty
celebrates a goal in last
year’s Lee-Jackson Classic.
Men’s lacrosse opens their
season Feb. 25 at Guilford.

Women’s lacrosse, ranked
#8 at the end of last season,
opens the 1998 campaign
Mar. 4 against Guilford.

The #4 Women’s tennis
team looks to continue
their NCAA dominance
when they open their

season on March 4 against
Randolph-Macon.

Men’s Tennis is ranked
#18 in Division III heading
into their opener Feb. 26 at
Radford.

Check out previews of all
of these spring sports and
more next week in the Phi.

Women
drop two,
fall to .500

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

It was a tough week for the Gener-
als, going 0-2 last week with a pair of
disheartening losses. On Tuesday
W&L lost to an amazing Bridgewater
team, 66-51.

Bridgewater came into the game
undefeated and ranked #1 in the
South. On Thursday the Generals fell
to Guilford 77-61 in Greensboro, NC.
The Generals now stand at 7-7 over-
all and 4-7 in the ODAC.

Tuesday at the Warner Center the
Generals led Bridgewater 29-28 at the
half and were tied with the Eagles 37-
37 with 15:00 left in the game. How-
ever, the Lady Eagles outscored W&L
29-14 in the ﬁnal 15:00 to remain un-
defeated at 14-0. The Generals used
a combination of suffocating man-to-
man defense and red hot shooting to
gain the lead in first half as Sopho-
more guard Ansley Miller had four

steals andjunior center Amber Hinkle
had 13 points in the ﬁrst half.

The Generals seemed to run out of
gas during the second half as fatigue
seemed to play a large role down the
stretch. Only seven players saw ac-
tion for the Generals while ten play-
ers hit the floor for Bridgewater. Jun-
ior forward Connie Ritchie led the
way for Bridgewater with 19 points.
Miller had 19 for the Generals while
Hinkle ﬁnished with 15.

On Thursday the Generals seemed
to suffer from bus lag as they dropped
a 15 point decision to Guilford in
Greensboro, N.C. Sloppy play and
lack of intensity plagued the Gener-
als as they were within striking dis-
tance of Guilford for most of the game
but just could not put together a rally.
W&L shot 57 percent from the ﬁeld
in the ﬁrst half but the Generals ﬁn-
ished with a season high 32 turnovers,
18 of them in the ﬁrst half as W&L
fell trailed 34-25 at the half.

The 1-2 punch of Laura Haynes
and Marija Preimats was too much for
the Generals to handle as Haynes
scored 29 and Preimats poured in 28,
accounting for 57 of Guilford’s 77
points. Miller was the Generals’ high
scorer once again with 19. Hinkle
added 14 and Chrissy Burghardt had
10 in the losing effort. The win im-
proved Guilford to 7-7 overall and 5-
5 in the ODAC.

The Generals host Emory & Henry
tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Warner
Center. On Thursday they travel to
Randolph-Macon Women’s College
and they play the first game of a
double-header on Saturday at noon at
the Warner Center against Guilford.

 

    

PAGE 6

'1

JANUARY 26, 1998

I1€WS

NEW ZEALAND PROFESSOR TO SPEAK

THURSDAY

Neil McNaughton will speak on Thursday Jan. 29 at 4:30 p.m.
in room A214 ofthe New Science Center. His lecture is entitled,
“Interdisciplinary Recursion: How the Rat’s Brain Can Tell Us
About Human Anxiety.” McNaughton is a native of Scotland,
and now teachers at the University of Otago in New Zealand.
His visit is sponsored by W&L’s Neuroscience Program.

MASTER PLAN FORUM TO BE HELD,

THURSDAY JAN 29 AT 7 P.M.

W&L will hold an informal public forum on its proposed mas-
ter plan on Thursday, Jan. 29, at 7:00 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge
in the University Center at the corner of Washington Street and
Lee Avenue. The public is invited to attend. Drawings of the
preliminary master plan will be on display during the public fo-
rum. Contact the W&L News Office at 463-8460 for more infor-
mation.

USSO, ROMANIAN PIANIST TO PRESENT
RHAPSODY IN BL UE AT LENFEST

Renowned Romanian pianist Mihai Ungureanu will serve as
soloist for the Jan. 31 performance of George Gershwin’s Rhap-
sody in Blue by the University-Shenandoah Symphony Orches-
tra. Barry Kolman, W&L’s associate professor of music and
music director of USSO, will conduct. The performance will be
held at the Lenfest Center at 8:00 p.m. Admission is free and
open to the public. For more information, ca1l462-4535.

W&L FILM SOCIETY TO SHOW “THE

BLUE KITE” FRIDAY JAN. 30

“The Blue Kite,” a powerful Chinese drama, will be presented
by the W&L Film Society and International Club, in conjunction
with Captive Nations Week. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on
Friday Jan. 30 and Saturday Jan 31 in the Troubadour Cinema, at
the corner of Main and Henry streets. Admission is free. The
film is in Mandarin, with English subtitles.

“The Blue Kite” is directed by Tian Zhuangzhuang, and won
the Grand Prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 1993. Chroni-
cling the first 20 years of communist rule in China through the
destinies ofa child born in 1954 and that of his mother, the film
earned international acclaim. However, Tian Zhuangzhuang was
blacklisted by China’s Ministry of Film, Television and Culture
for the film’s controversial themes.

PULITIZER PRIZE WINNING PLAY,

CRIMES OF THE HEART AT LENFEST,

W&L’s first production of 1998 will be Crimes of the Heart
by Beth Henley. The play won the Pulitzer prize and the New
York Drama Critics Circle Award in 1981. Crimes of the Heart
will be presented on Feb. 6, 7, 9 and 10 at 8:00 p.m. and on Feb.
8 at 2:00 p.m. For information or reservations call the Lenfest
box office at 463-8000.

GENERALPROBE, GERMAN COMEDY AT

LENF EST FEB. 6-7

On Feb. 6-7, GENERALPROBE will perform the two-act com-
edy Hin und Her (Back and Forth) by the Austrian dramatist Odon
von Horvath. The show begins at 8:00 p.m. in the Keller The-
ater. Admission is free.

GENERALPROBE is a group of W&L German students, «fac-
ulty and friends dedicated to German language drama. The play
will be performed in German, and a detailed English synopsis
will be provided in the program. The comedy takes place on a
bridge between two hostile countries — a bridge on which, in
one short night, a homeless man takes up residence, couples fall
in love, drunks drink, smugglers smuggle, guards let their guard
down, the human spirit triumphs over adversity and a grouchy
man catches a very large fish.

RICHARDSON TO GIVE CLASS OF ’62
LECTURE FEB.i5

Associate Professor of Journalism Brian E. Richardson, ’73,
will present this year’s Class of 1962 Fellowship Lecture on
Thursday Feb. 5 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. The title
ofhis lecture is “Britain 2,000: The Millennium is the Message.”
The lecture is open to the public and will be followed by a recep-
tion. During the 1996-97 academic year, Richardson taught at
the University of Birmingham, England, and did research at Ox-
ford University on the British media’s coverage of the 1996
American presidential election and the 1997 Parliamentary elec-

tions in UK. His lecture will focus on Britain and the British’

media coverage at the threshold ofthe millennium. The Class of
1962 Fellowship Program was established in 1987 with a gift of
an endowment to support the scholarship and research ofthe un-
dergraduate faculty.

UFFELMAN LEAVES LENFEST CENTER
TAKES COMMUNICATIONS POST,

Former assistant to the managing director of the Lenfest Cen-
ter Louise E. Uffelman has assumed the position of communica-
tions writer at W&L. She will work with both the publications
and the news offices to develop write and produce news releases,
stories for the Alumni magazine and other publications as needed.
She will also assist with media visits to the campus. Uffelman
assumed the position on Jan. 1.

PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS PHILIPS

EARN S DISTINGUISHED AWARD

Charles F. Philips Jr., the Robert G. Brown Professor of Eco-
nomics at W&L, was honored at the annual meeting ofthe Trans-
portation and Public Utilities Group ofthe American Economic
Association. He received the group’s 1997 distinguished mem-
ber award “for significant contributions to the field during his

career.” During the meeting, Philips also chaired two sessions,

presented a paper titled, “Social Objectives in an Era of Deregu-
lation,” and concluded his two-year term (for the third time) as
President of Omicron Delta Epsilon, the international honor so-
ciety in economics.

Considered one of the foremost authorities of industrial orga-
nization, corporate economics and government regulation of busi-
ness, Phillipsjoined the economics department at W&L in 1959.
His book, The Regulation ofPublic Utilities, now in its third edi-
tion, is widely used by experts in the field.

-— Compiled by Heather McDonald

"-

 WAT E R

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

of the stage.”

“The place was packed,” Woody said.

“It does get really crowded in the base-

ment,” Chi Psi Social Chair Anthony Allen
said. “But I don’t really think that it is an
issue for us because the way the basement
is set up, people spill out into the other
room.”

Someone pulled down a pipe over Par-
ents Weekend too, Woody said. “A per-
son was standing on some risers we put
up, they lost their balance, and grabbed
onto the pipe.” Woody said they have

‘(:3 G U LAG

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

ing to the United States. He has
testified on several occasion be-
fore congressional committees on
Chinese human rights violations.

Wu has visited China four
times since 1991 on his quest to
elucidate its twilight prison re-
gime. On his most recent trip Wu
again fell victim to the system he
is fighting, when he was impris-
oned for several months, accused

Tuesday

 

Snow
Showers
High: 41°
Low: 34°

Wednesday I

 

Partly
Cloudy
High: 47°
Low: 34°

since moved the risers.

Since all of the pipes in Chi Psi base-
ment are exposed, there is always the dan-
ger of something like this happening,
Woody said. “We might try to strengthen
the pipes in some way.”

“Our pledges were real all-stars,” said
Woody. “As soon as the pipe broke, they
were already sweeping it outside with
brooms.’

Before the pipe broke, it was the best
party at Chi Psi in a long time, Woody
said. “It was tragic for it to end so
soon.”

He pointed out that it could have
been a lot worse. “Someone could have
pulled the hot water pipe.”

of spying.

US pressure facilitated his re-
lease, but his struggle continues.

Three of Wu’s books have be-
come New York Times bestsellers:
Laogais The Chinese Gulag; A
Memoir of My Years in China's
Gulag; and Troublemaker.‘ One

Man ’s Crusade Against China ’s‘

Cruelty.

China’s human rights record
has been under the spotlight over
the past year, with the handover
of Hong Kong and the visit to the
USA in October 1997 of Chinese
president Jiang Zemin.

Guess who?

Both of these bands played at Washington
and Lee in past years. E-mail the correct
names of the bands to phi@w|u.edu by 12
a.m. Tues. to be eligible for a random draw.
The winner will receive‘ an ice cream sundae
from Sweet Things, complements of the Phi.

Cl/75
COZO/P

6010/?
60/Q/PE6 l/0/V

F0/Z//\/6

0990

The Crystal Tower Building
131 West Campbell Avenue
Roanoke, Virginia 24011
(540) 342 2460

LAWRENCE

This Weeks Weather:

Thursday

Showers

High: 45°
Low: 34°

 

Saturday

   

Partly
Cloudy
High: 45°
Low: 33°

Fire and
Brimstone
High: 45°
Low: 30°

Hard Rain
High: 46°
Low: 29°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

 

 

PAGE 7

Lip synch or strip show?

Friday night’s lip synch proved that sex not
only sells, it buys tons of food for area food banks.
With 32 acts, the biggest show in its 12-year

history, this year’s should have come with a
parental advisory and a NC-17 rating (for full-
frontal male nudity.)

These acts were comprised mostly of Greek
members, who bared chests and genitalia to tunes
like “I’m too Sexy” and “It’s Raining Men.” Not
only were members of the student body and
faculty treated to a musical review of pop hits
from the 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s, they got a glimpse
of sorority and fraternity unmentionables.

Audience members were exposed to male
genitalia, bare butts in white spandex, countless
male chests, (some hairy, most not), a lot of
women’s legs, views up their skirts, really tight
halter tops and really tight pants.

Those groups who performed fully clothed won
the judges heart. Chi Omega, with two squeaky
clean acts, took first and second place. Their skits
lacked originality (“Men in Black” was a direct
copy of the video) but the dancers were well
choreographed and clothed from head to toe.

The beer garden ran out of beer well before 11
p.m. The guffaws and fall—outs of this year’s show
drove many an upperclassman to the beer garden
in search of reprieve.

Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger
limited the number of students participating in
each act which increased the number of acts in the
show. It also seemed to have increased the amount
of skin shown on stage.

Although the show has a history of drunken
revelry and skin thrills, this year the tradition
reached an all-time low. The crap on stage was
comparable to the crap spewed during Chi Psi’s
after hours water pipe spill.

Members of the last act refused to let the
tradition of ripping apart the stage die. In a last
minute frenzy they pulled down the stage’s white
lattice supports and were then booted off stage.

Washington and Lee students need to learn that
the °°Uras.e.£0 .I2<“«.rf9rm doesnfl some in. ..a..ﬂask-
Drunkiiisiiiyt always funny. There are only so many
times Slimer can fall on her ass. The winners of
this year’s lip synch were well choreographed and
sober enough to remember the moves. It is a
disgrace to the W&L community when men fall
out of their pants, tear down the stage and girls
willingly offer a glimpse up their skirts.

“ J i uote of the Week:

Alcohol uplifts the spirit
and brings it closer to God.

—— Politics professor quoting an
Islamic sect from Albania

7)

Ellis ﬁling-tum lﬁlti

Executive Editors Courtney Miller

Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

Sick of ideology? This club’s for you

“... and thank God that I just don’t care.”

—— The Velvet Underground, Heroin

Here at Washington and Lee, the ﬁve or six campus
liberals can join the College Democrats. The College
Democrats provide a forum for discussing the best way
to ruin everyone’s future with idiotic social programs.

}’,The Loony Bin
  Mclvlanemin 00

Those with even fewer brain cells, and who are able to
trace at least one ancestor back to the Mayﬂower, can
join the College Republicans. Or, if you just like root-
ing for losing teams (like you Denver fans) the Col-
lege Libertarians provide a great forum for becoming
familiar with the concession speech.

But what about the rest of us? What about us cyni-
cal Generation X-ers who don’t give half a holy hoot
about the petty world of politics? What about those of
us too lazy and too jaded to possibly care?

Well I’m founding a club for all of us slackers: The

 

Apathetic Student Society. Our mission is to promote
the political ideals of "apathy. In order to do this, we’re
never going to meet, we’re never going to sponsor de-
bates or rallies; in fact, we’re never going to do anything.
The Apathetic Student Society promises not to try and
shove some ridiculous ideology down your throat. If you
don’t agree with us, we don’t care. We’re the only club
willing to admit that we have no idea what’s best for you.
We hope that no one will show up for these events:

Apathetic Student Society Winter Schedule
January 29th —— nothing

February 15th — nothing

February 30th —— nothing

March 5th — nothing

You see, the political doctrine of apathy (founded in
Athens, 485 BC by Apatheticus, the town drunkard)
doesn’t involve time-wasting chores like protest rallies,
letter writing campaigns or voting. We believe in solv-
ing problems by ignoring them in the hopes that they’ll
go away by themselves. Sure, our political methods of
watching TV and playing video games strike our oppo-

  

15 Minutes of Shame

 
   
 
  

¢¢,¢p_g,,;-r _e</Ir:-~‘rs lo

(Dues k rwv.
-gu-opu~l6 ISPACGKM

HA5 ANYONE EVSE
HA9 AN flFFmtt wmt
pnesroeﬂ ¢u~‘f°~?

 
     
      

  
 

   

FIN
4I‘L‘4‘Lt‘l m"-'ms A
ﬁlls Luvs‘! T*5“I¢‘l‘

Poor Chelsea

 
   

Journalism ethics shouldn’t
be an oxymoron at W&L

Journalism Ethics.

All around campus, students break out into laughter as
I put these two words together in a sentence (and no, not
just FlJI’s). When I told people I was taking an indepen-
dent study class injournalism ethics this winter, the jokes
flowed naturally fro their lips. There were witty remarks
like, “Joumalism ethics? That must be a short course,”
or, “Not much history of that, is there?”

 

Journalists often get a bad rap for being, shall we say,
ethically challenged. Frequently, the accusation is war-
ranted, as the cases of Diana, Princess of Wales and oth-
ers have amply demonstrated. The journalism department
at Washington and Lee is at least doing its share to change
that reputation by offering its students an expanding num-
ber of classes in ethics. However, the rest of W&L does
not seem to be following the joumalism department’s lead.

This university is better suited than most for the teach-
ing of ethics and morals, which is basically the question
of “How ought we to live?” As members of the W&L
community, we have committed ourselves to a moral phi-
losophy, embodied in the Honor System. We have
pledged not to lie, cheat, steal or commit other breaches
of trust. Every day, in and out of class, we strive to up-
hold these principles.

    

“I think it was just a plot by Chi
Psi to have a wet t-shirt contest.”
— Carly Nasca ’0O

  

“Gaﬁldeﬁsh — and lots of it.”

Strangely, though, few students at W&L receive much,
if any, instruction in ethics. It would seem logical that at a
school where morality is cherished, campus discussion about
morality and ethics would continue beyond the occasional
White Book review and the night during Freshman Orien-
tation when the Executive Committee screens its video on
the Honor System. Granted, the video is effective, as well
as scary enough to require a change of underwear, but eth-
ics and morality are far more complex than a short list of
prohibitions.

For example, in the journalism ethics survey class I took
last term, we touched on 13 separate topics involving what
it means to be an ethical journalist. I can’t imagine how
many topics could be involved in what it takes to live an
ethical life. Yet we seem content to limit the teaching of
morality and honor to that Honor System video and its ad-
monitions not to lie, cheat, or steal.

W&L’s website says that “Honor is the moral comer-
stone of Washington and Lee University.” Having lived
here for almost four years, I don’t doubt that. The Honor
System should remain our moral cornerstone. But shouldn’t
we be thinking more about how to live honorably, as op-
posed simply to how not to’? Why not require all incoming
freshmen to take at least one class in ethics? Clearly, stu-
dents who come to this school want to live honorably. As
a university we should start them down that path. As a
community, we should be doing more to help students who
pass through this university become ethical people, not
merely educated people.

 

clear.”
— Dan Grattan ’00

 

“All I know is that it was not

—— Jessica Helm ’00

nents as foolish and irresponsible. They claim we’re wast-
ing our lives. But our philosophy is: politics, schmolitics.
We’ll all be dead in a hundred years anyway.

Perhaps you’re unsure whether or not this radical ide-
ology is for you. Here are a few of the bold positions we’ve
taken on some of today’s hottest issues:

Abortion: Who cares?

Drugs: None of our business.

Taxes: Whatever.

Gun control: Hey, Ihope I’m not missing The Simpsons

Education: Oh, wait, they’re not on for another hour.

We will also speak out on campus issues. For example,
we couldn’t care less about this new smoking policy. And
if we have to read one more boring article in the campus
papers about pledgeship, we’re going to shoot ourselves.

I’m convinced that if we all work together, we can re-
ally accomplish nothing this year. With a little indiffer-
ence and a lot of indolence, our club can one day become
almost as politically impotent and useless as the College
Democrats. Now if you’ll excuse me, it’s nap time.

The Apathetic Student Society

Unity - Apathy - Nap time

“So lazy that we don ’t even bother ﬁnishing our”

Sleeping around
on campus

I’m tired. You’re tired. We’re all tired.

Chances are, you are one of the many people on campus
who didn’t get enough sleep this week. It’s equally likely
that you won’t get enough sleep next week, either. Or the
week after that. And so on.

It’s a big tradeoff: If you stay awake longer each day,
you can get more work done, but if you stay awake too
long, you’ll sleep all the next day and your dreams of aca-
demic success will be shot straight to Patagonia.

So what should you do? I couldn’t begin to tell you. But
I will offer you some things to consider:

  

 d Balsley 99

 

First, the longest anyone has voluntarily stayed awake is
11 days, 18 hours and 55 minutes, according to the 1971
edition of the Guinness Book of World Records. Bertha
Van Der Merwe accomplished that feat in 1968, effectively
bringing new meaning to the term “all-nighter.”

Second, researchers have recently found that the platy-
pus spends up to eight hours a day in REM sleep, according
to the Sep. 8 issue of Science News. This means that if you
too were a platypus, you could potentially get more sleep
than what you get now.

Third, the Reid Hall library is the best place on campus
to sleep. Oh yes it is. Between its comfortable couches and

_ near 8_(_)-d_egree_temperatures, the J-school library is an ideal.

place to conk out for a day or two. (Honorable mention-
goes to the fourth ﬂoor Parmly reading room - it takes home
special merits for its reclining lounge seat.)

Fourth, it is not a good idea to sleep anywhere on cam-
pus where guided tours are lead. I once woke up in the
library only to find about a dozen high school seniors and
their parents standingjust beyond my head. This is not an
experience you want to have. Trust me on this one.

Sweet dreams.

“I thought it was sh-t — there were
brown chunks all over me!”

— Ross Hinkle ’O0

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

la”§f"‘i3"§”7””<r3”fd

JANUARY 26, 1998

Bathroom Wars: The Battle of the Sexes stakes new territory

ByI.izDetter

W&Life Editor

he fumbles with her keys, hopping from leg to leg
as she unlocks the door. She dashes in and makes

a beeline for the bathroom. Hikes up her skirt and
pulls down her knickers, leans back to sit, when “Eeek!”
escapes her lips
as she feels the
icy cold water
of the bowl hit
her rear.

She fell in.
It’s a terrible feel-
ing, reminiscent
of childhood.
She curses as
she stands up
and reaches for
atowel.

He did it
again. No mat-
ter how many

I I
I
By Alex Cliristensen _ .
Phi Movie Critic

Everything about “Titanic” is huge: the story, the
history, the ﬁlm itself, the expense of putting it on the
screen, and, most of all, writer and director James
Cameron’s vision of a grand love story as the emo-
tional foreground for his unprecedented recreation of
an unprecedented historical event. And it all works -
except that last part.

I realize that I may be stepping on some toes. The
American public has made it clear that it thinks this ﬁlm
is the return of Hollywood grandeur, cinematic
storytelling at its ﬁnest, a beautiful, compelling trag-
edy. There’s even Oscar talk: “Titanic” is the
frontrunner, though “L.A. Conﬁdential” may yet have
some surprises in store.

But it turns out the main action
of this story of star-crossed lovers
Jack (Leonardo DiCaprio at his most
embarrassing) and Rose (Kate
Winslet, a cipher), is a colossal fail-
ure.

In a ﬁlm of such bigness, I truly
think some people have tried to ex-
cuse the corny, melodramatic, unbe-
lievable, uninteresting love story by
tying it up with the really very well
realized disaster. They let the emo-
tional intensity ofthe disaster bleed
over into the hokey love story until
it seems like a smoldering romance
on the order of Hugh Grant and
Kristin Scott-Thomas in “Four Wed-
dings and a Funeral.”

The ﬁrst time we see Jack, he’s gambling in a tavern.
“When you ain’t got nothing, you ain’t got nothing to
lose,” he says, ﬂashing that movie-star grin. It’s a line
from Bob Dylan’s “Like a Rolling Stone.” Is this a criti-
cism? Not in itself. But Jack doesn’t get one ounce more
character development. DiCaprio, in interviews, says it
was a challenge to portray Jack, a “free spirit,” “an art-
ist.” Well, that’s what Jack is. A free spirit. An artist.
That’s all. Rose is the rich girl who learns something.
Period.

DiCaprio and Winslet seem genuinely at sea in this
cheap little affair. They are given some of the worst
dialogue I’ve heard on screen since the legendary

C C disaster of

“Things to Do in
Denver When
You’re Dead.” In
that film, the
c h a r a c t e r s
seemed to be
speaking Mad

DiCaprio and
Winslet seem genu-
inely at sea in this
cheap little affair.
9’ Libs, and they
actually had to

stop every few minutes to deﬁne the ludicrous, invented
slang they used. In “Titanic,” the characters speak in
song lyrics and anachronistic phrases when they’re not
simply exchanging some ofthe most predictable “love
sugar” I’ve ever heard. I’m not cynical. I can appreciate

Colonnade Club

 
  

  
   
 
   
    

/70M? MEN’.
Weeéz 11/91”
A MMVLETE
i,i\1,q4pFMoF»°<1/W’!
@ozN6' 0N ttﬁzﬁ’.

   

fl”

5%’

times she tells him, he still refuses to put the seat
down. Why? What is it about the male psyche that
creates a mental block about this small gesture of
civility?

If he could see her -— pathetic, knees at chest-level,

can tell himself that he’s not whipped, that he’s still his
own man, in charge of his own life, a carefree bachelor
who makes his own rules. Dammit, he’s lord ofthe toilet!
King John would probably laugh at the vision of
his little woman sputtering and muttering with fury
over his inconsiderate-

he laugh, or would he
learn? Her mom finally
won the bathroom war
with her father when he
saw his sad little girl,
embarrassed, lower lip

stuck in the loo — would C ‘

He’ll never know the shock of frigid
porcelain on bare skin and the sting
of cold water on exposed ﬂesh.

ness. He wouldn’t see it
from her perspective, that
little things like this can
make all the difference.
From her point of view,

quivering and eyes
filled with tears, her
little tush all wet from her first plunge into the toilet.
That was enough for her dad to relent, repent and
redeem himself by reforming his behavior. He’s been
a kind and considerate man ever since, careful to
replace the seat after each use.

But not this guy, oh no! With him it’s a matter of
pride. His refusal stands as a symbol of his indepen-
dence, his unwillingness to succumb to her control. He

Even Cameron
can’t keep it up

love stories. This one is just hollow.

The ship’s great. Don’t get me wrong. Cameron shows
us the Titanic. That’s why the ﬁlm gets two and a half
stars: just on the edge ofa thumbs-down, but not quite.
You’ve got to see the ship. The problem is, these se-
quences work so well, you start to think. You’re actu-
ally down there in the wreck. And you’re not alone.
There are thousands of ghosts there with you. They
want their story told. Cameron had the best chance to
bring it to life, and he decided to write a hackneyed
teen adventure-romance.

When I ﬁrst saw the previews for “Titanic,” I was
very excited. Cameron brings us an epic. I’m ready. But

 

-PUBUCITY PHOTO

it’s just simple courtesy to
”leave things the way you
ﬁnd them. You close the cabi-
net door after opening it; you replace the milk in the
refrigerator after using it; you clean up your own mess.
These are the rules that her mom taught her, and like
any good daughter, she grew up to expect others to
play fair. It’s a simple matter of good breeding, of at-
tention to detail, of her right to set the standards of
conduct in her own apartment, of respect for her and
women everywhere.

’ The pitch:

{.7}. .. - |t’|I be like
‘ ' ‘T2’ meets
‘A Night to
Remember.’

  

the trailer also made me nervous. From the action, it -

seemed to me that the ﬁlm might turn from an epic re-
telling ofthe Titanic disaster to a cheap love story with
a contrived jewel—heist/gun—chase ending. Boy. I was
never so right. Anyone who actually believed Billy
Zane’s character (What was his name again? Snidely
Whiplash?) chasing the young lovers into the bowels
ofthe sinking Titanic deserves to see this ﬁlm over and
over again. As for me, it’s on to anything else.

He’ll never
know the shock
of frigid porcelain
on bare skin and
the sting of cold
water on exposed
ﬂesh. He thinks she
can learn to antici-
pate the lingering re-
minder ofhis mascu-
line presence in her
feminine domain, that
it’s a fair tradeoff for
the other benefits of
his visits to her abode.

But she’ll have her re-
venge. As she gets ready
for their rendezvous at his place, she slips
something extra-special into her bag. It’s a roll of
cellophane. He’ll have a nice surprise waiting for
him when he stumbles blindly into the bathroom in
the morning. Better hope he has a mop.

Wannaraisehell?

Doyourfriendstellyoutoputa
sockin it?

Do you see yourself as a critic-

at-large?

lfyouansweryestoatleastone
of these three questions,
you should be writing for
the Last Word.

Sushi at Sake Housein Salem

Serving sushi at Wilson Field? Unfortunately for
you folks from California (where they would actually
do something like that), we don’t think so. If you still
need a ﬁx of raw ﬁsh, there is a great little place down in
Salem that will take very good care ofyou. Sake House
also serves many other traditional Japanese dishes to
appeal to the average person, who may not like sushi.
We drove down to Sake House on a Saturday
evening with Doug’s roommate, Justin, whose grand-
mother is Japanese, and his visiting friend Rachel
from Vanderbilt, who is a vegetarian. The four of us
were a diverse group with varying tastes, so we tried a
variety of dishes.

Beginning with the appetizers, we all enjoyed miso
soup, a light broth with tofu and green onions, and a
green salad with the house dressing, a tasty light gin-
ger.Doug and Robin sampled the plum wine, a sweet

 

seven

MONDAY 53? 7 p.m. Women’s B-ball vs.
Emory & Henry 31¢ 7 p.m. “The Writer and the
War,” a lecture by Slavenka Drakulic in Dupont
Auditorium ii‘? TUESDAY 565 7:30 p.m.
Contact presents Morgan Noval; Northen
Audtorium 3'53? 8 p.m. Concert Guild brings
Grruck Ohlsson to Lenfest 39?? WEDNES-

DAY 51¢ 4:30 p.m. Science Center dedication
lecture: “What’s Where in the Neuropsycho1—
ogy of Anxiety”; room A214 of the Science
Center 345 7:30 p.m. Men’s B—ball vs.
Hampden—Sydney =51‘? THURSDAY 35¢ 7
p.m. Public Forum addressing W&L’s Master
Plan in Fairfax Lounge 1145 7:30 p.m. Contact
Lecture with Harry Wu in Northen 3%? 7 :30 p.m.
Xi Pi Xi Society presents Suzanne Keen speak-
ing on “Contemporary Fiction by Women”; C-
School 221 ¢I<= FRIDAY rt: 7:30 p.m. Film
Society shows “The Blue Kite” in the Trouba-
dour $5 SATURDAY ii‘: 11 a.m. W&L Wres-
tling 51¢ 12 p.m. Women’s Basketball vs.
Guilford $5 2 p.m. Men’s Basketball vs. Guiford
3%‘ 7:30 p.m. “The Blue Kite” 3% 8 p.m. Uni-
versity-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra at
Lenfest 11:30 p.m. Sh**kickers at KA 11¢

     
 
  
 
    

  

77 NW 1312 /race T?)
‘E9? we 17/wrs
$tPPI2o- 172 mm;
Fpizv TH"fZ‘ &(g_L19(/Odég
‘T7’ NOT coweiotaz
0% ea 17A11raF

A <79xUA(/
¢a,m7oNeHi1?..

   
 

 

and delicious beverage, while Justin and Rachel opted
for more traditional beverages, green tea and Coke re-
spectively.

Our entrees more accurately reﬂected our varied
tastes. Justin ordered the sushi deluxe, a tray of as-
sorted sushi delicacies. Rachel selected the vegetable
tempura, which consisted of sliced vegetables, lightly
battered and fried, with a bowl of tempura sauce for
dipping. Doug opted for his favorite Sake House dish,
kobe beef, small cubes of beef tenderloin cooked in a
black pepper
and garlic sauce
and served over
a bed of cab-
bage. Feeling
more adventur-
ous, Robin tried
the ahiru, roast
duck and scal-
lops served with
carrots and on-
ions. Justin as-
sisted those of
us inexperi-
enced with chop-
sticks, and we
dove in.

Most of us
sampled Doug’s
beef, which was ».
plentiful in portion and very tasty, and although Justin
offered tastes of sushi, no one took him up on the offer.
Robin’s duck had a rich sesame ﬂavor, and was tasty, al-
though slightly greasy for her tastes. Rachel enjoyed her
vegetable entree, which included unusual elements such
as sweet potatoes and zucchini. Justin raved about the
consistent quality and fine preparation that he found in
the sushi every time he visited.

We were all impressed by the authentic decor and tra-
ditional seating at Sake House. The service was also ex-
cellent, and the prices were reasonable for the quality and
quantity of food we received. We highly recommend Sake
House to all those folks from California, and anyone else
interested in enjoying this type of ﬁne dining.

 

By Hollister Hovey

     
 
 
     

wa,u,l @0699,
got HA/A9 1’lAl/l¢HU(7
AWUT THE W2, L
Rook’ U? éoérxta.

 

  
  
 

 

MIIIIETBHII

 

MEN ’s, WOMEN ’s Hoops
SUFFER Lossss

Washington and Lee University
vowmrz 100, NUMBER 13

PAGE 3

 

No ONE WANTS TO ADMITIT....
BUT IT EXISTS AND IT IS A

PROBLEM:Ca mp us

BAP

PAGES 4-5 ‘

 

 

JAME°
'VASHlN§j%N

might hit
Clinton below
the belt.

Movi e Revi ew
by Al ex
Chris tensen

 

LAST WOR

PAGE 8

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

r Lab swiping?

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

I computer labs, student computing

‘ that users swipe their university

‘i still subject to approval, would not

‘ ginning of the winter term.

it van Assendelft said.

BARING" IT FOR THE BROTHERS...

Phi Delta Theta pledges show their support for sophomore Phi Delts

Matt Jackson and Brian Ricketts, who playedlflzorlthe Generals in
Wednesday night ’s basketball game against Hampton-Sydney.
Horusmz Horzsr/Pnoro EDITOR

 EWS EDITOR
Following recent thefts from

is asking for card readers to be in-
stalled on the doors of campus com-
puter labs.

Memory has been stolen out of
three computers, and an Ethernet
card was taken from another. An
entire Macintosh computer was
stolen from a lab last summer.

The card readers would require

card to get into the computer labs,
much like getting into a dormitory
or residence hall. The plan, which is

be budgeted for the next academic
year, but the 1999-2000 academic
year.

“The library is open 24 hours a
day, and people canjust walk in and
take out memory or a machine,” said
Dirk van Assendelft, Student Com-
puting Coordinator.

However, the card system would
further restrict public access to
W&L’s computer labs. The guest
account was discontinued at the be-

“At the end of the fall term, the
guest account was being abused by
area high school students. The li-
brary staff asked us to disable [it],”

Plan seeks to solve issues

BY KATHIE SOROKA

This would mean lesser administration ofﬁces could
STAFF WRITER

Anyone with six million dollars to spare and a plan to

solve Washington and Lee’s parking problem, please see
/Vice President of Finance Lawrence Broomall.

A public forum met Thursday to discuss W&L’s “Mas-
ter Plan,” which includes a six million dollar parking ga-
rage. The Master Plan is a ﬁve-year, long-terrn, “big pic-
ture” construction plan targeting problems and adding new

features to campus.

Other features of the plan include sorority housing, a
university commons, improvements to the athletic ﬁelds
and a music and arts building. Joel Spaeth, of the Hillier
Group of Princeton, N.J., presented the plan at the forum.
Frank Parsons, W&L Facilities Planning Coordinator, and

Broomall also attended. '

“Parking, parking, parking. Every campus we look at,

parking is a problem,” Spaeth said.

In accordance with Board of Trustee wishes, the ﬁrst
priority of the plan is sorority housing.

However, at the forum, town residents and students as
well as Spaeth, Parsons, and Broomall expressed desires
for a parking garage to be constructed simultaneously.

The problem is funding. Funding will be raised through
traditional methods, however, with no plan to raise tuition

to cover expenses.

Since W&L’s enrollment is ﬁxed, there is expected
growth, the plan focuses on making better use of existing
facilities. For example, according to Spaeth, the DuPont
Building does not adequately support either music or art
programs. A new music and arts building would be at-
tached to the wall of the Warren Center, leaving DuPont

free. .

be moved out of Washington Hall and replaced with
academic rooms. The President’s office would remain in
Washington Hall.

Another possible location for administration ofﬁces
would be the new University Commons. Spaeth said
the commons would be the social hub of the campus. It
would be located behind the Commerce School, replac-
ing the parking lots and built into the like the library and
science buildings.

The Co-op, bookstore, GHQ, club offices, and recre-
ational areas would be housed there. One advantage to
movinithe Co-Op and bookstore there would be an
end to e traffic hazard and noise disturbance created
by morning delivery trucks backin g into the alley next
to Graham-Lees Dormitory.

Yet, because the commons eliminates parking lots,
Spaeth said, “We cannot build the University Commons
without the parking garage.”

The four-level parking garage, which will accommo-
date about 440 cars, is currently planned for the area
behind Doremus Gymnasium.

The ﬁve sorority houses will be built in the area up-
stream of Woods Creek Apartments, with room for one
more. They would be similar to fraternity houses and
would each house about 20 women.

“They’ll be ready August 2000,” Broomall said.

The Board of Trustees will take a look at the Master
Plan on Feb. 13 and 14.

Spaeth stressed that current plans are just “con-
cepts” and that some changes in location and detail are
still possible.

Wu takes stand in lecture

4 BY SARAH MEl_DRUM

STAFF WRmaz

When the Soviet army invaded
Budapest, Hungary, in 1956, Harry Wu

I, was a geology student at the Univer-

sity of Beijing. He played shortstop
on a baseball team and had a girlfriend.
Four years later, he was in the laogai
Chinese prison system for life in

V prison. His crime? Speaking against

communism during the Hundred Flow-
ers Campaign.

Wu’s lecture on Thursday culmi-
nated Captive Nations Week, spon-
sored by the Contact Committee. Some
members of the audience in Northen
Auditorium had to sit on the ﬂoor and
in the aisles.

People began to trickle into the

I room an hour before Wu was sched-

uled to speak, ﬁguring correctly that
the combination of an important
speaker and a small room would leave
no empty seats.

Wu described his years in the
laogai, occasionally pausing as if rc-
counting his experiences was open-

ing old emotional wounds. He told of

one of his fellow prisoners, who was
so obsessed with sex that he eventu-
ally went mad and committed suicide.
Wu’s family renounced him after the
government declared him a Counter-
revolutionary Rightist. In the end,
Wu’s father was tortured and died, his
mother committed suicide and his
younger brother was killed.

Wu was freed in 1979 at the age of

42, and came to the United States in
1985. He founded the Laogai Research

Foundation in 1992 to investigate the
laogai, the Chinese prison system Wu
compared to the Nazi concentration
camps and the Soviet gulag. Wu ex-
plained how the government uses laogai
prisoners to mass-produce products for
export to the United States.

“We impose our values on China over
copyright law to protect products, but
will not [impose our values] to save hu-
man lives,” said Wu. He explained that
there was an executive order in 1993 to
stop the import of forced labor products
to the United States.

China did not stop, and President
Clinton withdrew the order. The Chi-
nese Embassy spent $5 million in 1992
lobbying Congress. However, in 1995
and 1996, the embassy did not need to
lobby Congress; 800 American compa-
nies lobbied for trade with China instead.

Wu said the laogai also sells death
row prisoners organs, sometimes before

the prisoners have even died. “I
wish the American president and
government would become the ﬁrst
government to nationally condemn
the laogai system,” he said.

Junior James Sammons was im-
pressed by Wu’s presentation.

“It was thought-provoking to
hear from someone who had actu-
ally been tortured, interrogated, and
held in a camp for 19 years,” he said,
“because you get a perspective on
freedom that we don ’t usually have.”
Sammons added that people oﬁen
toss around the phrase, “I have a
right to...” as if it were a toy.

In addition, added Sammons, Wu
was denied privileges Americans
take for granted, such as the ability
to criticize the government without
fear of reprisal.

Heather McDonald contributed
to this article. I

southbound lane is ﬂanked by a steep

Senior drives
off 20-foot-cliff,
flips into creek

BY Liz DETTER

w&Lrr-1-: EDITOR

drop-off above Buffalo Creek. Ruppar’s
car plunged into the ravine, fell about 20
feet, plowed through trees and brush and
landed upside down in the frigid creek.

“The car filled up with water imme-
diately, like a half a foot  I had no idea
[how deep the creek was] so I tried to
look out the windows to see how much
time I had. At this point, I was think-
ing the worst — you know, like rescue
91 l where you have a little air pocket
to survive.”

Ruppar’s power windows did not
work once he had cut off the engine,
and three of the four doors were
blocked by boulders in the creek.

“That was the worst part  you’re
disoriented because your car just got
into an accident and ﬂipped over, it’s
pitch black outside and the car’s ﬁlling
up with water I was trying to not freak
out until I got out of the car.”

Ruppar tried to salvage what he could
before getting out. “My accounting ‘text-
book started ﬂoating past me, [and I]
grabbed my book-bag with all those ex-
pensive textbooks, and threw that out
by the ravine. I’d had an interview that
morning so I had my interview suit —
my one interview suit with my nice shirt
and tie that I always wear to the first in-
terview — in the back seat, and for some
reason it seemed completely logical to
go back into the car to grab the suit.”

SEE CRASH PAGE 6

Upside down, hanging sus-
pended by the seat belt as his car
ﬁlled with water, senior Andrew
Ruppar had enough presence of
mind to grab his backpack and his
interview suit before kicking open
the rear passenger-side door and
climbing out into the snow.

Ruppar was one of the many
casualities of the icy and snowy road
conditions caused by the winter
storm on Jan. 27. That Tuesday night,
he was heading home on Route 11
South. The three-lane alternating
highway had been plowed, but the
continuing snow produced treach-
erous conditions and limited
visibilty.

As he neared Possum Hollow
Road, a few miles outside Lexington,
Ruppar lost control of his 1990 Mer-
cury Topaz and drove off of the road.

“I was doing about 20, 25 [mph],
and being from Texas I’m not sure if
that’s good for snow or not,” said
Ruppar. “Right as I started to slow
down to brake beforéthe ‘tui'"n”,"5Il'tl1e
wheels locked up and the car just
slid forward. There was a little road
sign, and the worst thing I was think-
ing was, ‘oh, no, I’m going to hit the
sign and it’s going to scratch my
car.’” .

On that stretch of Route 11, the

Error in phone
charge notice has
phones ringing

BY SARAH MELDRUM

STAFF WRITER

A decimal makes a big difference. Students with campus phones were told
last week that they could make long-distance calls at the cheapest rate in the
nation, a quarter of a penny per minute.

Unfortunately for them, this was a typographical error.

“We’d be making the national news if we’d found a way to do that,” said

. Flash Floyd, manager of University Services.

A ﬂyer announced new ﬂat rate prices for long distance calls inside the
United States. It said “Flat Rates = Savingsl”

The box below that bold statement gave great rates. It advertised .25 cents
per minute during weekday calling hours, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. In other words, one
penny for every four minutes of a long distance call during peak hours.The
prices given for night-time calls, 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., and weekend hours were both
.12 cents a minute.

Unfortunately, all three were typographical errors. The box should have
read 25 cents per minute for 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Mondays through Fridays, and I2
cents for the other times. A decimal makes a big difference.

The ﬂyer, which came from the W&L Telecommunications department, warns
students to read the ﬁne print of all agreements. It advises students not to fall
for calling card tricks, saying that many calling cards include per-call surcharges
or monthly fees.

“If a student is able to ﬁnd a ten-cent-a-minute deal with no surcharge or fee,
they’ll have found a great deal,” Floyd said. He said calling card advertise-
ments are “a little deceptive in that there are hidden fees.” If a student ﬁgures
out the effective rate of each call, the price will probably be higher than the
publicized rate.

MCI is Washington and Lee’s carrier for direct dial long distance services.
Floyd explained that the school belongs to a consortium of more than twenty
schools that buy a long distance carrier in bulk. MCI was the lowest bidder. The
new ﬂat rates will take effect Feb. 1.

The MCI system breaks the rates into standard blocks of 12hours, 7 a.m. to
7 p.m. It also charges a ﬂat rate, instead of billing according to the time and
distance of a call. Students who live on campus receive a 7-digit authorization
code to use when making long distance calls. Some students opt to use a
calling card instead.

Matt Mills, sophomore, uses Sprint’s ten-cent a minute plan when he calls
his friends at other schools. “It’s cheaper,” he said. He uses the school’s sys-
tem when he calls home, and his parents pay that phone bill. “I can keep things
separate this way, and my father doesn’t have to pay for my personal calls.”

The new ﬂat rates affect only calls within the United States. The old system,
which charged students according to the time calls were made and the distance
of those calls, will remain in effect for international calls.

“So when my parents move to South Korea, that’s just gonna suck,” junior
James Sammons said.

 

 

  

   ".Ch:_-"happ_ens“bétween’i‘1l1€i"Freshs 7  

I manandseiiior years; ‘ Weat the Phi are A  '
takingthis week to highlight the differ-
ences» between these two classes.

_ 7Fresh_man: Goes out Wednesday, Fri-
day, and Saturday. ,

. Sénliocr,-1 Mayestop by The Palms for a

0 :‘‘'‘’’’_‘'le.-; ff"; . ‘

I Freshman; . Is excited abnoutglife,  L
leizrning, and the many; intellectual ’

_’ and social opportunities. that Wash-
 ington and7Lee has to oﬂer.‘ _
Senior.‘ Is excited about the new cook-
ies in the GHQ. “

is“Newéombéhalléit6.%s¢t—.«ti?€{i.!?lzil0€9P’?J'. , .
.cbu,.Se_, I {- ,f    ~' r:

' Senior: Calls the professor a few days
later to , get that Philosophy course.

rooms in the7library. 3- r 0 IV , _ --
‘ Serti9r:.«e,Finds”e‘0?h¢rr’3 ='.“*‘-."7.5J.7",":'.”lf_.’:?.’e"'

Freshmanr,  ‘those ‘closed e A j

  

 

“neecdsls'omething.c  ‘ ’ V  ‘A V
 Senior}?  Calls a freshman: to ,go to
H ‘Stop’-In'when he needs_somet_hmg.

Freshman: Gets a box of cookies and a
birthday card ﬁom mom in the mail.

' Senior: ?Gets awarningjrom the IRS in »
the mail.cc> ‘ “—  s A ‘

I Freshman (girl): Wearsstretch pants," I
a nice sweater, and heels on a‘Geology A
Fieldrtrip. )    _ I I 

. Senior: Shows up in jeansfrom the last j
three ﬁeld trips. — ‘ r

  

;‘ Ecreshmangfv Spends.-the night in ._ --

1.;«FAesimiam;~aGoés.jogsropgrnicgiﬁerif,

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

IIGWS
Cadets pay price

for ring figure riot

BY WILL HARDIE

News EDITOR
On Saturday, Nov. 8, VMI cadets partied hard to celebrate their Ring

Figure ceremony, and, just as importantly, the chance to spend a night out
of the barracks.

Wednesday, three of them shufﬂed uncomfortably in Rockbridge
County Court as police described just what they had done in that exu-
berant haze of drink.

William Meyers and Anthony Kaspyrzyk, both 19, sat stifﬂy in regula-
tion ill-ﬁtting gray uniforms; Robert Hunt, already suspended from VMI
following his conduct that night, slouched in jeans and a bomber jacket.

Rockbridge County Deputy Sheriff T. A. McFaddin told the court how
he had spent most of that night herding rebellious cadets into their motel
rooms and trying to stop them causing too much damage and commotion.
At the Red Oak Inns he found Kaspyrzyk being carried along by two other
cadets, who dropped him when they saw McFaddin.

“When he saw us he started shouting at us, ‘you a**holes,’ this and
that, then he took off up the stairs,” said McFaddin. He caught up with
Kaspyrzyk on the second ﬂoor, where they “had a little conversation.” The
ofﬁcer said he smelled alcohol on Kaspyrzyk’s breath and gave him a
Breathalyzer test, which registered 0.20. He arrested him for underage pos-
session of alcohol.

But McFaddin’s night was not over. Just after 3 a.m., he told the court, he
saw a stationary green Cadillac straddling the dotted line on Route 1 l, with its
left indicator blinking. He said it pulled off right and driﬁed erratically between
the lanes, then ran a red light making the left turn into the Econo Lodge parking
lot. McFaddin pulled it over and peered through the window at cadets Meyers
and Hunt, who «was driving. He gave Meyers a Breathalyzer test’-because he
looked “glassy-eyed”: it registered 0.07. Meyers said in court he had had 10
drinks over the course of eight hours at Ring Figure.

But Hunt refused the test. He told the court that he had drunk two and a
half cans of Budweiser between 9 p.m. and 3 a.m. “I was worried that the
beers would show up,” he said. So McFaddin administered a ﬁeld alcohol
test. Hunt missed two numbers while trying to count to 30, swayed and
raised his arms while attempting to stand on one leg, turned left when told
to turn right, and failed to touch heel to toe while trying to walk in a straight
line. He told the court that he had not driven erratically or ran the red light,
and that he wasn’t drunk. “I felt ﬁne,” he said.

Assistant Director of Cadet Affairs Captain Julianne Faltz saw McFaddin
pull the cadets over and followed the cars into the Econo Lodge parking
lot. She offered to take them back to VMI, but McFaddin said he would
have to arrest them. Meyers was charged with under age drinking, Hunt
with driving under the,inﬂuence of alcohol.

All three pleaded not guilty to the charges; Judge Joseph E Hess found
them all guilty. Kaspyrzyk and meyers were ordered to attend an alcohol
awareness class, with a $75 fee. Kaspyrzyk was also sentenced to 41 hours’
community service. Hunt is appealing his verdict.

VMI has inﬂicted its own punishment. Hunt, already in disciplinary trouble,
was suspended. Meyers is serving four months’ barracks conﬁnement, two
months’ social probation and has been sweating out 1 10 hours of marching.

The annual Ring Figure celebration, at which VMI juniors receive a
heﬂy 40 pennyweight ring commemorating their class, is typically a riotous
affair. It is one of the few occasions when cadets are allowed to spend the
night outside the barracks. Tent parties with kegs of beer were held atthe
Red Oak Inns on Nov. 7 and 8., when most cadets stayed at motels.

CCM SPONSORS LOVE TALK TONIGHT

Listen to voices of experience as you prepare to celebrate Valentine’s Day, the holiday of
romance and of hope. “Falling in Love  Forever!” presenting true love stories from President
and Mrs. Elrod, Captain and Mrs. Peniston, and Jan Kaufman and Art Goldsmith, will be held
at the Gaines Gatehouse on Monday, Feb. 2 at 7:00 p.m. The discussion is sponsored by the
Catholic Campus Ministry. Everyone is welcome.

BLACKMER TO LECTURE ON ISLAMIC MUSIC

Hugh Blackmer, Science Librarian at W&L, will give a talk entitled “Music in Muslim Lands”
on Tuesday, Feb. 3 at 7:30 p.m. The presentation will be given ir1 Room 1 14 of the Science Center.
Blackmer served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Malaysia in the mid-’60s, where he assisted in
community development and ﬁlrnmaking. He received his Ph.D in anthropology from Stanford
University, and taught anthropology courses at Acadia University in Nova Scotia for 18 years.
The lecture is sponsored by the department of religion, in coordination with a seminar on Islam,
and is open to the public.

CRIMES OF THE HEART OPENS FRIDAY

The theater department at W&L presents Crimes ofthe Heart, opening Feb. 6 at 8:00
p.m. in the Johnson Theater. This Pulitzer prize-winning play by Beth Henley centers
around three passionate, eccentric southern women who harbor secrets they are afraid
to share. The show continues with performances on Feb. 7, 9 and 10 at 8:00 p.m., and on

Feb. 8 at 2:00 p.m. For information or reservations, please call the Lenfest box office at
463-8000.

FILM SOCIETY SHOWING “THE PILLOW BOOK”

The next presentation of the W&L Film Society will be the exotic drama “The Pillow
Book” (England/Hong Kong, 1996), directed by Peter Greenaway. The film is in English, Japa-
nese and Mandarin. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 6 and Saturday, Feb 7, in the
Troubadour Cinema. There is no charge for admission.

USAF HERITAGE OF AMERICA BAND TO PERFORM

The United States Air Force Heritage of American Band will be performing on Monday,
Feb. 9 at 7:00. Admission is free, and the concert is open to the public. They have performed
before the Queen of England, the President of France, and several U.S. presidents. The perfor-
mance will include John Williams’ Winter Games Fanfare, Toccata and Fugue in D Minor by
J. S. Bach, The Black Horse Troop by John Philip Sousa, and selections from the music of
Andrew Lloyd Webber.

POLISH SOCIOLOGIST TO SPEAK AT W&L

Aleksander Lutyk ofthe Polish Academy of Sciences will present a lecture on “Pri-
vate Entrepreneurs and Peasants: Social Change in Polish Agriculture after 1989.” The
lecture will be given on Monday, Feb. 9, at 7:30 pm. in Northen Auditorium. It will be
open to the public. His visit is sponsored by the Shepherd Program in the Interdiscipli-
nary Study of Poverty, the university lectures committee and the department of sociol-
ogy and anthropology.

CD

CONTINUEDONPAGE6

shock that he ended up in a creek.”

COLLEGE
NIGNT

ROCK-N—BOWL

SNACK BAR OPEN
VIDEO GAME ROOM
POOL ROOM

LEXINGTON LANES

COMEJOIN US FOR
"NEON NIGHT S’
EVERY FRIDAY 8. SATURDAY
IIPM IILL IAM

EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
9:00PM TO MIDNIGHT

$2.00 PER GAME/FREE SHOE RENTAL

 

@:D CRASH

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Once Ruppar got out of the vehicle, he realized that the
creek was only a foot deep. He climbed out of the ravine
and started walking toward Lexington. He caught a ride
with a family in a truck to the Stop-In Texaco Station on
Route 1 1. The family outﬁtted him with a turquoise
woman’s coat.

“They had a coat in the back of the car that they were
going to drop off at Goodwill, so they gave it to me in-
stead,” he said.

Ruppar called the state police and a tow truck from the
Shell Station in Natural Bridge.

“I saw Andrew, he was soaking wet,” said Heather
Clark, who was working at the Shell Station that night.

“He was cold and wet. He was drenched, with soaking
wet feet and soaking wet pants. He was in a little bit of

Wanted llll . .. Individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
1997 Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS

Call INTER‘-CAMPUS PROGRAMS
1 -800-3 27-601 3

According to Clark, the tow truck driver said Ruppar
was “lucky to be alive.” I

“[The car] was totaled, that’s for sure,” said Clark. “It
didn’t look so good. It had been upside down in a creek.”

Ruppar’s car was insured, and he hopes to be able to
replace it soon.

“The worst part of it is that l’ve been trying 1" do really
well in my classes this term, and l’ve been super nal about
my notes,” said Ruppar. Although his notes and books
were mined by the accident, Ruppar said that his profes-
sors have been very understanding.

At least two other students were involved in auto acci-
dents the same night; both escaped without injury. Kelsay
Berland, senior, drove off of the road to avoid hitting a car
as it spun out of control on I-81 northbound a few miles
from Lexington. Freshman Aaron Knoll damaged the frame
of his ’94 Ford Explorer 12 miles north of Roanoke on I-
81on the way home from an Aerosmith concert.

BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. ALL
SPRINGBREAK
locations. Florida, Cancun, etc. from $89,
register your group or be our Campus Rep.
Inter-campus programs 800-32.’?-60 15

  

O

 
 

 
 
 
 

maybe a few brain cells.

  
 

ter You Hit
opes.

When you're ready for a study
break, head for Massanutten.
: Because College Days are back
during January and February.
Every Wednesday and Friday
from 12:30 to 10:00 p.m. you can
get $18 ski and snowboard lift tickets

Massanutten. It will save you some money—and

1-800-207-MASS

www.massresort.com

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

INTENSE
HEADACHE?
ACHING
JOINTS?
RED,
ITCHY
RASH?

  

,1-lit

 
      

BLURRED
VISION‘?
You ARE
VERY

ILL.
Go TO THE
INFIRMARY.

  
  

 
    

    

 

rr‘ .~.~v,,- JI.""'

 

aw*,/ I

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

RESULTS

Men’s Basketball
(3-8)
Wed. Hampden-Sydney
L 61-68
Guilford
L 55-58

Sat.

Wornen’s Basketball
(8-9)
Mon. Emory & Hemy
W 60-56
at RMWC
L 42-53
Guilford
L 59-77

Wrestling (2-7)
Swarthmore
L 27-15
Western Maryland
L 46-4
Ursinus
L 24-12

Thu.

Sat.

Sat.

AHEAD

Monday, February 2
Men's Basketball —
at Bridgewater
Tuesday, February 3
Women's Basketball ——
at Emory & Henry
Wednesday, February 4
Men's Basketball —
at Va. Wesleyan
Thursday, February 5
Women's Basketball —
at Va. Wesleyan
Saturday, February 7
Men's Basketball —
at Eastern Mennonite
Women's Basketball —
Lynchburg, at 2:00,
Warner Center
M&W Track —
at VMI Relays
Sunday, February 8
Wrestling-
at Va. State Toumy

Men’s b-ball loses to
ﬁrst and worst
teams in conference

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
-—-——-j*‘ STAFF \X/Rmaz

It was a rough week for the men’s
basketball team: they lost to both
the first place team and the last place
team in the conference.

The Generals went down to ﬁrst-
place Hampden-Sydney 68-61 on
Wednesday night at the Warner
Center in front of a large home
crowd. They had beaten the ODAC
leading Tigers 44-42 earlier this sea-
son at Hampden-Sydney. But they
just couldn’t get the job done that
night. Four Tigers ﬁnished in double
digits and a late W&L rally fell short.

On Saturday afternoon, the Gen-
erals played a sluggish game in
which they seemed to overlook last
place Guilford College and went on
to lose to the 58-55. Kevin Cobbin’s
last-second three-pointer, which
would have sent the game into over-
time, came up short. The Generals
now stand at 8-8 overall and 5-5 in
the ODAC.

On Wednesday night, Hampden-
Sydney used a 14-0 run over the end
of the ﬁrst half and the start of the
second halfto put themselves in po-
sition for the victory. W&L trailed
24-20 with 3 :45 to go in the half after
Matt Jackson hit a desperation
three-pointer as the shot clock ex-
pired. Hampden-Sydney then went
on a 7-0 run to close out the half
and make the score 31-20.

In the second half they picked
up where they left off and went on
another 7-0 run to expand their lead
to 38-20 early in the second half. The
Generals trailed by double digits for
most ofthe second half but put to-
gether a late rally, pulling back with
a Rich Peterson lay-up to 66-61 with
29 seconds left. Following Peterson’s
basket, Cobbin came up with a great
steal and had a chance to bring the
Generals within two, but his three-
pointer drew iron and the Tigers put
the game away at the free-throw line.

Sophomore guard T. J. Grimes led

the way for the Tigers, ﬁnishing with
21 points. Joining Grimes in double
ﬁgures were sophomore center Jeremy
Harris with 13, sophomore guard
Chris Fox with 12, andjunior guard
Alex Robbins with 10. For the Gen-
erals, Peterson had a double-double,
ﬁnishing with 19 points and a ca-
reer-high 11 boards. Freshman
guard Will Ballard added 13 and se-
nior Kelly Dyer had 10.
Hampden-Sydney shot a solid 9-
17 from behind the arc in route to
the victory, including a 4-6 perfor-
mance from Grimes. When these
teams met earlier this year,
Hampden-Sydney shot 1-15 from

‘three-point land and the Generals

went on to win 44-42. The win im-
proved the Tigers to 15-2 overall and
9-2 in the ODAC.

On Saturday afternoon, the Gen-
erals showed a lack of intensity and
were plagued by poor foul shooting
as Guilford pulled off the three-point
upset, 58-55. The Generals led by ﬁve
at halftime, 26-21, and continued to
lead the Quakers for most of the sec-
ond half. But the Quakers put to-
gether a late rally, which was capped
off by a key steal and basket by
freshman guard Jaron Randall,
which gave the Quakers a 50-46 lead
with 2:32 left in the game. Randall
was the high scorer for Guilford: he
scored 11 ofhis 14 points in the sec-
ond half to lead the comeback effort
for the Quakers.

The Generals trailed by seven
with less than a minute remaining
and the game looked all but over.
But following a quick lay-up by
Peterson, the Generals got the ball

back under their own basket after a W

Quaker in-bounds pass went ﬂying
out of bounds without anyone
touching it. Dyer then hit a three-
pointer to make the score 57-55 and
the Generals then fouled Guilford’s
Kenyatta Ramsey with only eight
seconds remaining. Ramsey hit the
ﬁrst shot to extend it to a three-point

sports

PAGE 3

    junior Rich Peterson crushes his opponent’s leg. Despite his15 points
and 10 rebounds, the Generals dropped a close one to Guilford, 58-55

HOLLISTER H0VL‘y/PHOTO EDITOR

lead but missed the second shot to

‘give the Generals ayﬁnal ‘chance to

tie the game. Junior guard Cobbin
dribbled the length ofthe court and
got offa good three point look after
spinning out oftrouble, but it came
up a bit short and the Quakers
walked off the court with the upset
victory.

Randall ﬁnished with 14 for the

T

/T 7


171

Washington and Lee hosted
three Centennial Conference
teams in a wrestling quad meet on
Saturday and came away with
losses to Swarthmore, Western
Maryland and Ursinus. Leading
the Generals effort was sopho-

 Jock Short

- Wrestling drops three -

more 126-pounder who went 2-0
before sitting out the ﬁnal match.
Sophomore heavyweight John
Sensing went 2-1 with both of his
wins coming by pin and junior
150-pounder John Grumbine had
two wins. -from staff reports

Give your
intramural pictures
and results to

(71112 ﬂing-tum iﬁhtl

_ Quakers and fellow freshman Jon

Evans‘ ﬁnishedwith 12. For the Gen-
erals, Peterson ﬁnished with his sec-
ond double-double of the week, hav-
ing poured in 15 points and had 10
rebounds. Dyer added 11 and
sophomore center Scott Hudson
added 10. The Generals were only 9-
20 from the free throw line while the
Quakers converted on nine of their

last 1 1 attempts in the last ﬁve min- 
utes of the game. The win moved 1

Guilford to 5-14 overall and 3-11 in
the ODAC. The Generals next travel
to Bridgewater College on Monday
where they will face the Eagles for
the ﬁrst time this year. The next
home game for the Generals will be
next Monday night, Feb. 9, against
Randolph-Macon.

Quakers crush women’s
hoop squad like rice cakes

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—“*““*‘_" STAFF WRHER

The Lady Generals had yet another
up-and-down week: they went 1-2 with
a win over Emory & Hemy and losses
to both Randolph-Macon Women’s
College and Guilford College.

They are now 8-9 overall and 5-9 in
the ODAC.

Washington and Lee started off the
week with a win on Tuesday night at
the Warner Center, downing the Emory
& Henry Wasps 60-56. W&L centers
junior Amber Hinkle and freshman Leah
Sawyer scored 30 points and grabbed
18 rebounds between them, en route to
victory. Hinkle ﬁnished the match with
a game-high 16 points and 10 rebounds,
while Sawyer ﬁnished with 14 points
and eight rebounds. Sawyer came into
the game averagingjust 3.5 points per
game. Junior forward Chrissy Burghardt
added 13 points for the Lady Generals.

For the Wasps, junior guard Jaclyn
Dickens led the way with 14 points and
senior guard Angie Simpkins had 10
points and seven assists. Dickens hit
four three-pointers in the second half
and the Wasps shot 5-11 from behind
the are for the game.

The Generals led by as many as eight
points in the second half but needed to
overcome a late rally which brought the
Wasps within two points, 58-56, with
less than 30 seconds remaining. Soon
aﬁer, senior Tania Dean put the game
out of their reach by putting in two free
throws. Their loss dropped E&H to 6-9
overall and 3-8 in the ODAC.

On Thursday the Lady Generals hit
the road and traveled to Randolph-Ma-
con Women’s College where they suf-
fered a disappointing 53-42 defeat. The
Lady Generals led 26-21 at the half but
could only muster up 16 points in the
second half. They shot a lowly 25 per-
cent from the ﬁeld.

Tara Carelton was the high scorer
for the Wildcats, pouring in 19 points
and grabbing eight rebounds. Team-

mate Kai Felton scored 14 as she went
4-4 from three-point land; Jennifer Bap-
tist ﬁnished with a double-double with
11 points and 14 points for the Wild-
cats.

Their win improved the lady Wild-
cats to 8-7 overall and 6-6 in the ODAC.

For the Generals, Burghardt led the
way with 11 points and sophomore
Ansley Miller added 10. Once again
both of the W&L centers played strong
games. Hinkle had eight points and a
career-high 15 rebounds while Sawyer
had nine points and 13 rebounds.

The Lady Generals, who came into
the game ranked #2 in the nation for

free throw shooting, were only 3-7 from '

the charity stripe.

On Saturday, turnovers plagued the
Generals in their loss to the Guilford
College Quakers, 77-59. W&L turned
the ball over 18 times in the ﬁrst half
and ﬁnished the game with 27 tum-
overs. They had lost to Guilford in
Greensboro just 10 days previously. The
Lady Quakers now stand at 10-7 overall
and 9-5 in the ODAC.

Marija Primats had a huge game for
the Quakers: she finished with 25 points,
ﬁve assists, and ﬁve steals and was 5-6
from three-point land. Laura Haynes, #3
scorer in the nation, ﬁnished with 18
points and 15 rebounds.

For the Generals, Sawyer recorded
the ﬁrst double-double of her career and
completed a great week with 17 points
and 10 rebounds. Hinkle also recorded
a double-double with 10 points and 12
rebounds.

For the week, the combination of
Hinkle and Sawyer averaged 24.7 points
and 22.7 rebounds per game. The Lady
Generals travel to E&H on Tuesday for
a rematch with the Wasps and then
travel to Virginia Wesleyan on Thurs-
day.

Their next home game will be next
Saturday at 2:00 p.m. in the Warner,
when the Lady Generals will host
Lynchburg.

 

 n PAGE 4

   
  
   
 
  
    
 
     
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
       
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
      
   
        
  
  
   
    
  
 
     
   
    
       
 
   
    
      
      
     
      
   
 
 
       
  
   

7

or
W .9}

w . of white columns a taboo topic hides. Febrnia
' ashington and Lee that rarely goes reported, and it is a crime that Vioiates eVei'Ything this school hoids

g, cheating and stealing in one package. to
lle .e campuses is a serious national crime. It has reared its ugly head» at the little School in the Shenandoah Vaiiey Where Parents Send their C121 tght

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  

« I

..%W~

        

will be sexua
1 in four coll:
committed ac

y assaulted in her lifetime 0 22% of all rape.v
ge women have either been raped or suffered air
that meet the legal definition of rape 0 75% ‘-
-n acquaintance rape had been drinking or using d?
Page ~,.

 

involved in

. icial rapes on campus in several years, W&L has reported percent of all women involved in an acquaintance rape had been using alcoho
=tWeen Aug i 2 i994 and iuiy 3 i 7 1997- The iast “Stranger drug use impairs a woman’s ability to communicate her decision about seigfas.
to judge a woman’s response. Despite the fact that a woman might not
0 i 1990. detines tape as “sextiai inteiootiise against the Wiii of intentions obvious, it still does not justify any “accidental” sexual assault.

, t e threat of force, intimidation or victim incapacitation.” A “Men Should never take advantage ofa drunk woman,” Young Said
as any sexual act against another Person against the persons Wiii Though oﬂicials say that there is no way to prevent a rape, there are ways to '
of iving consent. “There are people out there looking to harm women. It’s a control thi’ ;
t tionai siitVeYs ofooiiege Women show that oniY i in eVeiY 25 need to be aware of what you are doing and who you are with.”
,, h0FitieS- The UniVeisitY oniy tepotts those otieiises that are Rape counselors and psychologists stress several steps that can be taken .
con rmc y crimma oi iinivefity judicial action. self inabad situation; at ‘
“Date rape is the most und errepoited crime in the country,” Michael Young, Director of 0 Set sexual limits. It’s your body, and if you don’t want to continue sexfi
University Security said. nothing wrong with you. If you know how far you are willing to go beforeh

account #1:

 

 Dean of Students Dayirl It-l owi son agrees. “It is a signiﬁcant problem to get people to report.” decision stronger.
F ebnliny 4. 1995. The night Ofthe This problem is ampliiied iii a smaller community. Often, victims who report their crimes are 0 Be independent and aware on dates and at fraternity parties. Ddn’

Sathptes Chhchtté the htst :°'h°W ht subjected to rigorous questioiiiiig and have their stories ridiculed. Dr. James Worth, Univer- someone’s house if you asked to go to the dorms. Make sure you still ha
the year; ﬁve days until my 19th birthday; . 1 . . V  I , X j. . . . ' ""
the night my best friend raped me. I had sity Psycho o gist, tllllilxs» that me size of the school contributes to the problem. surroundings and make sure you get your own drinks. _
bronchitis, and uninforn-led about tho effects “This is a small enough community where the victim fears being shunned, exposed or ridi- 0 Be forceful and ﬁrm. If you are sure of yourself, your message will be 1
ofmixing alcohol and antibiotics, Idrank that culed. There IS little anon,yniity at this school,” he said. 0 Trust your gut-level feelings. They do not lie to you. If you think you
night» Rennning t0 my dorm room a1one,‘I The fears a victim might have ofbeing exposed or ridiculed are not simply aW&L phenomenon. you probably are.
takilked ttzﬂalgttt Oh my hah “hth I t°°°tV"tt his “One problem is our society doesn’t look at rape as a crime,” Young said. “Like every 0 Avoid falling for lines like, “You would if you loved me.” Ifhe loved)

one c . . . . , . . . . . . .
p He was Coming Over despite my excuses other crime, if your car is stolen, you d report it. If you are raped, unfortunately, there is a your decision and would not pressure you into doing anything you do notvzi
than was going to boo Ho stigma attached. 0 Be careful when you invite someone back to your home or room. The
arrived, and I let him in. He W& L women feel that the stigma is ampliﬁed on this campus. places for a rape to occur.
W85 Iny _beSt friend. I ‘  --—~——- “I think women would be afraid to report a rape,” said senior Emily 0 Have your own transportation. Many parties have sober drivers, and ‘
 1l1iIi‘r)nS.1la1Tne1E::m\;vﬁ: He was my bes t lE1Tamptf)lll. “oeopllle here would not see lie: as ‘the girl who was raped,’ but on Wednesday, Friday and Saturday nights, Live Drive can be contacted at
lay down on my bed and friend I rat er as, the girl w o tumed so-and-so in . . V I 0 Avoid excessrveouse of alcohol or drugs. I .
would not ieave when 1 trus te d him . For some W&L men, the thought of women feeling unsafe on this campus 1S Oﬁen, rape victims worry about making a scene and will not make thei.
asked. There Va 3 no t h 1. n g against everything for which this school stands. public, but if a woman waits until they are both in her room, it is a private _pla
He Said he W0Uid giye unusua 1 _ um t 1. 1 “There should be absolutely no reason for any W&L female to feel like she must be anyone to help her.
the it back thasstitge to ‘the’ take a selfdefense course for PE so that she can safely attend a frat party without “Be very aware of what you do and do not want to happen,” Margan
viate my coughing and to he lay down on my . . ,, . . ,,
help me fall asleep. bed and mm 1 d n O t an army of her soronty sisters, said freshman Thomas Wood’. ‘ about offending the person.-
Iawokoy face down: oa_ leave when I In a national survey of college students conducted earlier this decade, 35 Worth olfers some advice to males:
ked in my own bed, with a sk e d percent ofthe men surveyed indicated that they would commit a violent rape “Imagine yourself having gotten arrested on a drunk in public char e3
him iiiiono me Oniy the of a woman ifthey were assured that they could get away with it. This creates someone else gets thrown in there with you. He is much bigger than you,‘h
Word h° came tmth thy T“ 7 7 a dan rerous situation when this attitude is combined with alcohol use and the force to hold ou downand sodomize ou. Ima me how ou would fee ,.”
g Y Y g Y

lips as he entered me. It was

Over in a few mmmes Ibm_ assumption that W&L is a completely safe environment.

ion my head in my pillows and mod. 1 According to the National Victim Center, 75 percent of all men and 55
couldn’t do anything else, for I was numb t
with confusion, shock and disgust. Finally,
he left my room.

I was lost. I went to the school doctor;
they told me that I had an alcohol problem. I

local rape hotline A police»
463 -RAPE (24 hours) 4(,%.2g1

     
 

went to a peer counselor; he just wanted de— C ouns e 1 1 ng S tudent . A
tails as to which position the act occurred in. Dr‘ Anne S°h°r°t'Lath°“t3 1 46
Then, through the advice and help of five of 463'8750 toﬁtce) 4636478 (home) campus».
my closest friends, Ibrought charges against Dr‘ James W°rth: ‘ i " ' ~. on‘, 46.
him through the Student-Faculty Hearing 463'8592 toﬁtce) 4634000 (home) .

website:

i _ Sexual Assault Information Page
'h¥ittp': //www. cs . utk . eclu/~bartley/saInfoPage . htm

Board. In a unanimous verdict, he was found
guilty of “sexual exploitation through ma-
nipulative and predatory behavior.”

His punishment entailed counseling by a
school psychologist, prohibition from enter-
ing the freshmen dorms and social proba-
tion through the end of the year. A week
after his appeal against these sanctions was
denied, he was caught out at a fraternity party.

Given the opportunity to withdraw from
the university or go before a disciplinary
committee, he chose the former and trans-
ferred to a nearby University, continuing to
return to campus quite frequently for the next
two years.

sex survey

  
 
     
 
 

On Wednesday, May 14, 1997, A professor initiated an innocent discussion of gendeli rel
at Washington and Lee basedon “The Colonnade Club” cartoon that had appeared in the R ' _
tum Phi that week. The professor was astonished when the students requested that they co
duct an anonymous survey to determine some sexual facts about the 24 members of the cl -'
The professor wrote the following four questions on the board, the students wrote their answ-
on slips of paper which were collected, and the results tabulated as follows: t

  
     
 
   
   
     
    
       

  

_ Have you ever had sexual intercourse? yes: 71% no: 29% ,1
it has take“ the 3 iohg time to Put that Have you ever given oral sex? yes: 83% no: 17% F
night behind the i am ooihtoited With the Have you ever received oral sex? yes: 75% no: 21% no answgrzi ‘
khowiedge that I W35 Shppottett by my How many partners have you had in sexual intercourse? 5
friends, and that I may help others to heal Zefoi 29% One: 13% two: 13% three: 17% four: 8%i
through my own experience. However, I will ﬁve. 4% Six: 8% no answer; 8% :1

    
 
       
   
      
 
  

never forget those minutes, when. I lay help- A‘
less and immobile, before he who was my

b f o d This class, being a general education class, contained many students with differenihfba .
est rien .

grounds and majors. During an after class discussion a student said that he believed the t
biggest extracurricular activities on this campus are drinking and sex.

    

"‘?7§I:* ,m:iiwr iwitizéfi rim rm;-2-zg !i(zi:e' {}"i".€?!” tire ivcriitz, fifé’ ift£3g5.’i‘.-'.
riize eafzicrzfc-2:3 oven“ ziw ir.¥—if:;rtie2i'e*r!. rite t.’,it‘,I.?é;’1‘ii£’?2{1‘£?{1t over the (‘liilffi
dmermmrﬁM3ﬁh-meﬁwnmnmgornmﬁhwneanwﬁaﬂia
2713:. or if (sitar! £ib.sce2ic*e3_fi*(.ziii it wires fizz? crisis zm‘.iiiz'r.s‘ .:':‘_. wife‘ 395:9
;iirg£;i fi;;i:r."

Writer & Editor: Jason Zacher

Artist: Hollister Hovey
Layout Design: Tarah Grant

* The accounts were given to The Ring-tum Phi by
students who wixli to reiiiam anonyiizoizi. Naiiim
med iii the accoimti have been c/ranged.

  
  
 

  
  

  
   
 
 
    
       
    
    

€

  

ry' 2, 1998

ers to be “safe.” Next
I amtd.

:-

It

.ictims
.eptp ted
)f male
iugs

  

I

tor drugs. Alcohol or
- A e as a man’s ability
‘be. able to make her

  
   
      
  
 
  
      
  
     
    
   
    
      
    
     
  
   
   
     
     
    
   
    
   
    
 
 
   
  
      

‘It 'eyourrisks.
I"? Young said. “You

'0 avoid putting your-
It

1 activity, there is

d, it can make your

aciept a ride back to
e control over your

nuch clearer.
are being pressured,

.ou, he would respect
t to do.
-seilare the most likely

om 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.

63-8100.
‘F

intentions known in
:e and there might not

to sdid. “Don’t worry
Later in the evening,
e hi s you and he uses

— by Jason Zacher

  

alth center
mwi
security
-8999

     
    
  
    
   
  

    

   
   
   

   

  
 
  
  

 
   

  
   
 
    

    

 
    

  
   

   

 

     
   
 

.
',,- .,._._.7{.. e»
4 ‘.5; :1;

t;’;;2;;, .s?f‘%.°:<::‘£.?: 

         
     
      
  

' . " r- ..
-* in 4: ‘mm.
Z i...‘x 3:._- 3. 't..

 

F

 

PAGE 5

report

    
   
 
  
    
     
    
 

. .
it  :’,i'.="».-kit’ s.‘.«'§ ::§.s2?f§i’}{‘»~

v 113%’ ;,a:;';zi§»9z:arr;2 in

 

four in five
women.who

are‘victims
of sexual

assault know

their

attackers

 

  5:} ..‘33Z"‘‘ ”

Where do I start?
The weirdest thing is that fresh-

man year he told people that we slept
together, and now he refuses to admit
that we ever hooked up. Last week I
found out one of his friends saw me that
night with Scott*. I was plastered. I
thought, God, why didn’t you help me?

‘ And he said, it didn’t look like you

needed help.

I was totally freaked out. I was a mess.
I’ve blamed myself for three years, so I
didn’t tell anyone. I thought, I was too
drunk and I should have known better and
all the typical things; I should have con-
trolled myself Obviously I was hooking
up with him beforehand, voluntarily. He
was my best guy friend. I didn’t know any-
body when I came here, except him. So I
had all this trust in him. He was going to
take care of me. He’s gonna be my big
brother and watch out for me and make
sure no one hurts me. And he was the one
that ended up doing it.

It was during orientation. The whole
thing was awkward. I didn’t want it to hap-
pen. I didn’t plan on it. We went to afrater-

nity house and it was late. I really trusted
the kid. I really liked him. I was always on
his hall, hanging out and I felt really com-
fortable with his friends.

We all got really sh**-faced. My mom,
.0 this day, refuses to believe that my drink

wasn’t spiked, because I absolutely
blacked out. But I think it was just the
beginning of a series of blackouts for me. I
think I had a drinking problem... after that.
I had never drank that much before so it
was my ﬁrst blackout. And that’s the worst
part of the whole thing: I can’t tell you ev-
ery detail of what happened. All I can tell
you is that I remem-
ber being with him. I
remember being at
the fraternity. I re-
member a whole
bunch of us saying
we were going back
to the dorms and it
was so nomial for me
to be on his hall.
Hanging out with
them. I didn’t think
twice about it. For a
while his friends
were there and I re-
member we were eat-
ing, watchin g TV in
Scott’s room. I
guess they all left.
And we started
hooking up.

I just thought it was really strange, be-
cause it kind of broke the boundary of our

v friendship. It was weird. I was so drunk

and I said, Scott, maybe we shouldn’t do
this, and he just kept kissing my neck and
I was trying to talk about it and obviously
he wasn’t participating in the conversation.
I would get up and sit back down, the whole
time wondering what I was doing there.
All I know is that I remember kissing him

 

coping by Jason Zacher

Coping with a rape can be very hard on a small campus. The personal atmosphere
and closeness that Washington and Lee students share often make concealing trau-
matic events difficult. There are many ways to get help while keeping the assault a secret.

There are some immediate concerns that victims need to consider after an assault.
The Virginia State Crime Commission tells victims of a sexual assault not to: shower or
bathe, brush or comb your hair, change clothes, eat or drink anything, brush or rinse
your teeth, touch things where the incident happened or put on makeup.

Ifthe attack took place in a dorm or in a fraternity house, the victim should call campus
security immediately. The victim should be taken to the inﬁrrnary as soon as possible.

Any person who is a victim of a sexual assault should also call a friend or relative and
get to a safe place. She should keep warm and write down all of the details she can
remember. This will make any future prosecution or University judicial proceedings easier.

According to rape counselors, many rape victims are severely affected psychologi-
cally after the incident. Several studies have shown that there are several speciﬁc
stages that rape victims go through during their recovery.

The ﬁrst is the crisis stage. A victim is shocked that the assault really happened,
and might appear visibly disturbed, cry, shake or even faint. The most common emo-
tion is fear, fear of the attacker returning, fear of the place the attack occurred, fear of
people who remind her of the attacker. There are so many different feelings a victim
might feel during this stage — all of them are normal. She might not want to be touched,
or she might want physical affection from someone she trusts. She may talk about the
attack, or she could be completely quiet for a long time.

Counselors deﬁne the second stage as the denial stage. The victim will try to assure
their friends that she is okay, but she probably feels that her friends are tired of hearing
about the incident. This stage can be very brief or it can last for years. She might try
some harmful things during this stage like: overeating, not eating, overworking, as well
as severe alcohol or drug abuse.

The suffering stage is when the assault ﬁnally sinks in for the victim. There is
typically a feeling of loss, and the victim might experience depression. Other common
reactions include: fear, nightmares, changes in eating or sleeping, sexual problems,
anger, guilt and shame. She might also have ﬂashbacks and have frequent, disturbing
memories of the assault. ,

When a victim becomes a “survivor” rather than a victim, she is in the resolution
stage. The assault becomes an accepted, if painful, part of her life.

While almost every victim of a sexual assault goes through these stages of recov-

is different, but all will go through the same stages. Services such as University
Counseling are critical for helping a woman progress smoothly through these stages.

“We are available to both women and men,” said Dr. James Worth, University
Psychologist. “We have done counseling for both.”

Rape can also be very traumatic for friends of the victim. It is common for friends
to have strong feelings of anger and rage against the assailant, but as a friend, there
are several things you can do to help a rape victim.

- Listen, do not judge. Do not make her prove her story. Accept her version of the
facts and be supportive.

- Be available. She may need to talk at odd hours. She might not tell many people
and she might rely strictly on one person.

° Give comfort and offer shelter. She may not want to be alone. Stay with her or let
her stay with you.

- Don’t ever tell her what she could have done to prevent the rape. The only person
who can prevent a rape is the rapist. Let her know she is not to blame.

- Do not be overly protective. She needs to feel control in her life.

- Deal with your feelings somewhere else. Don’t discuss your feelings with her. Call
a hotline or talk to another friend.

“We encourage all victims to report it to the police department and prosecute,”
said Michael Young, Director of University Security.

Even if a victim does not want to press charges with the police, she can petition the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board.

The SFHB’s purpose is to investigate allegations of sexual misconduct at W&L.
The board consists of four students elected by the Executive Committee and four
faculty members. There are also two alternate students and two alternate faculty
members in case of a conﬂict of interest.

A victim can submit a complaint to either the Dean of Students, Davd Howison, or
the University Mediator, Dean Anece McCloud. McCloud will also present all of the
alternatives available to the student.

“An investigation does not occur in the sense of an EC investigation,” SFHB
President Nancy Margand said. “If the case comes to SFHB each student tells their
side of the story, can call witnesses to corroborate and turn in “evidence” they think
will support their view. Students receive help from advocates from the law school.”

Conﬁdentiality is stressed throughout the process to all parties. The SFHB can
hand down punishments ranging from counseling and social probation to suspen-
sion and expulsion from the University. \

University officials stress that no matter what course of action a victim wants tr

ery, there is no timetable in which she will complete them. Every sexual assault victim

and talking about it. I remember laying
down, just passing out. When I passed
out, I had my clothes on, or when I remem-
ber nothing else, I had my clothes on and I
was not in danger.

And when I woke up, really early, ﬁve in
the morning or something, he was next to
me and all my clothes were on the ﬂoor. I
freaked. I had no idea what had happened.
I got up, put my clothes on without talking
to him Ileﬁ.

Before this I would see him every day
without fail. Four days go by and I didn’t
even hear from him. No contact. I was so
scared. I didn’t tell anyone. I felt like some-
thing was wrong and I was sure I’d had
sex. I felt weird because I hadn’t had sex in
a really long time. It was the ﬁrst time at
college that it had happened to me and ob-
viouslyitwasn’t in any waythat I’dplanned
I was a naive little girl who thought sex was
important and you had it with the people
you love He crushed those expectations.

The next day, I remember trying to ﬁnd
out  I asked a friend of his, “So have you
talked to Scott?”

He said, “Yeah, Scott says that you guys
slept together.”

“Oh, he did?”

And that’s how Ifound out — through

member details of what he did to me, what
happened And I can’t remember anything.
And I think part of it is that I blocked it out,
emotionally, for so long that it ’s not some-
thing that I can think about.

This summer I ﬁnally talked to some
people about it. I told my mom for the first
time. She knew the summer after freshman
year that something was wrong. She kept
asking, Why are you behaving like this?
What is wrong with you? She tried to pull
me out of school. She’s still mad at herself
for not doing that. I guess she’s trying to
take responsibility and she can’t.

I convinced her to let me come back. So
this summer, I told her and of course she
lost it again I told her I’ve dealt with it I’ve
beendealingwithitforthreeyeais. I’mmore
stable about it now. I can talk about it. For
her, she just found out, so it was like me,
freshman year. She wanted to help me and
tried to pull me out of school again. I al-
most let her. I thought, I’ll stay home for a
year, get myself together. I don’t want to
go back and have this pattern of behavior
continue and she said, well you shouldn’t
drink. For a while I didn’t, and then just
with my roommates. And now I drink, but
it’s better. I feel like I have ﬁnally gained
some control over my life again.

It’s sad, because

a friend of his. I
didn’t know 
what to do. I
didn’t tell any-
one. I felt stupid.
I guessIinternal-
izedita1l:I’mjust
anidiot Thiswill
go away. We
don’thavetotalk
anymore.
Forme, drink-
ing helped me
forget. That has
been my main
fault in the whole

thing.

conscious.

weight.

It wasn’t a violent

But I know

that I didn’t consent
and that I wasn’t

probably just dead
Like a fish .
It ’ s sick to think
tha t he proceeded.
It’s really sick.

I see a friend going
through the same
thing this year, the
same pattern of be-
havior, and I just
found out, last week,
she was raped. It’s
everywhere. You
have no idea. At the
time it happened to
me, I didn’t know it
was rape. You know,
this was my ﬁrst ex-
perience in college.
So I’m thinking, this

I was

ordeal. I handled
it the wrong way. I’ve read a lot about it.
There are two basic reactions. Some people
shut themselves off to all men: cold, afraid
of everything. Or like me: No big deal! A lot
of women that get raped become alcohol-
ics. It’s sad because I know college would
have been so different if this hadn’t hap-
pened to me. I believe that.

I think about confronting him. Perhaps
I will .. . when I’m ready Now it would cause
too much pain. Who would believe me? I
had a bad past. My freshman year just got
worse and worse. It would be hard for any-
one to remember me the way I was before it
all happened and believe what I said. Most
people would say, whatever, you were just
drunk. And you regretted it the next day.
And that’s just not the case. I’ve experi-
enced those feelings too. This was differ-
ent. This was wrong. Something happened
that night that made me feel terrible about
myself. Nothing else was like this. That’s
how I know it was rape.

It wasn’t a violent thing, but I know that
I didn’t consent and that I wasn’t con-
scious. I was probably just dead weight.
Like a fish. It’s sick to think that he pro-
ceeded. It’s really sick. I try to sit and re-

’ 9 is how it works, you
get drunk and sometimes you do stuff you
don’t want to do — and you have to get
over it. Then it started affecting my men-
tality, my drinking, I was a different person
freshman year, I had to be the party girl
who could go out until ﬁve in the morning
and out-drink the guys. That’s just not
me. I’m ﬁnally starting to feel like my nor-
mal self. I’mtrying to regain some stability
in my life, some security, peace.

A lot of girls just aren’t aware, they think
it’s OK and that shows guys get away with
it. The girl that talked to me recently that
said she was raped said, ‘Listen, its no big
deal. You just have to get over it.’ And I
told her, “this happened to you recently
and you tell me its no big deal and you
sound just like me three years ago.”

They were both drunk, but he was vio-
lent with her. He held her down, was hurt-
ing her. lt’s so sad, I want everyone to know
who he is, because I don’t want anyone to
be around him. It scares me. At this school,
you’re trapped. Nobody’s going to believe
you. I want everyone to be aware. People
aren’t reporting this sh**. And it goes on.
A lot. So many women here have probably
been through this. My mom is so angry,

she wants me to take revenge and post
these guys’ names all over campus. I would

_ get crushed. That’s why no one reports it.

Nobody wants to go to a counselor
here. You’re trapped. I want to warn fresh-
man girls. It’s not enough what they did
for us freshman year. Looking back on
that thing we went
to, the video on
rape, we were jok-
ing around the
whole time. This
isn’t going to hap-
pen to us. We just
were not thinking. It
happened to me
that week.

We were so na-
ive. We trusted ev-
erybody. And the
one person I tnisted
the most screwed
me over. Now Ithink
twice about every
guy  I just wish
people knew. Iwant
to graduate in peace.

It’s possible that he was too drunk to
know what he was doing. I don’ 1 think he
did it with malice. He probably didn’t know
what was going on. After that he tried his
darnndest to be my friend. Every fall, he
starts getting friendly, calling, dropping by.
I think he wants my reassurance that he
did nothing wrong. He must know it isn’t
all right. When I see him now, I don’t ac-
knowledge his existence.

Now I want to talk to people, freshmen,
I guess. Ifsonieone in my sorority had said,
this happened to me, if you need anyone
to talk to  I would have gone to them. I
was so convinced that I was the only one
this happened to and didn’t know who to
talk to. I didn’t even know we had a peer
counciling system.

I didn’t know about the rape recovery
group, either. I’d like to go, now. Everyone
recovers in different phases. I feel like now
I could help other people. Its taken me
three years, but now I can deal with it, con-
front it. It seems like the next step is using
this in some positive way, to help other
people. It’s horrible that I thought there
was no one I could talk to. I didn’t even tell
my mother. I tell her everything. It was a

 

persue, it is important to seek out help to recover from the incident.

look around, everybody’s drinking! I was
different. I wasn’t just drunk and coming
home; I was drunk and going home with
whoever. It was bad. God, the trauma of
answering the questions. I think I’m most
defensive about people not believing me.

The worst part is, this "r1 I talked with
to d me the same
kind of story. She
was drunk, she
blacked out. I
didn’t believe her.
The ﬁrst thing that
came into my head
was: “Yeah right.”
And I caught my-
self and thought,
“Jesus, what are
you doing, you

have to beheve her.
Why would she
be making this
sh** up?” Ithink
it’s rare that girls
make this stuff up.
It’s not fun to go
, through, or to pre-
tend to go through.
I want to know what he thinks hap-
pened. But I don’t want to talkto him. I just
want to say, you know, you are a horrible
person. This is a terrible thing to do. You
hurt me and it will be with me for the rest of
my life. This is not acceptable. And then I
want to walk away. I don’t ever want to
talk to him again. I don’t think he remem-
bers that night and thinks, ‘I raped that
girl.’ I’m sure he doesn’t put that label on
it. He probably thinks it was a drimken
night gone wrong. Maybe not eye." that.
Who knows?

The worst thing is, I don’t remember.
Maybe I’m lucky, I don’t know how it felt,
physically, you know. It’s so ﬁustrating that
I can’t remember exactly what happened.
People told me we had sex. I woke up with-
out my clothes ori. I can’t ignore the fact
that it happened.

I’d never been to a psychologist. I went
011 my lunch hour and I start bawling cry-
ing, couldn’t go back to work. She said its
so common, that it happens to so many
young women. Society makes women into
the guilty party. We have to accuse the
men; they become ‘the victims’ and every-

hard year for one is second-
me. Peopletalk ‘ C guessing and judg-
about how in ou.
much fun It ’s not enough what gals Such a
freshman year they did 1'-Or U3 f 1? eshman fu**ed-up system.
was. I think: year. Looking back on We’ve been raised
“Oh, my bad that thing We Went to, to make ourselves
year.” Ididn’t the video on rape we desirable to men.
care about any— , , ' Men are raised in a
thing. Ididn’t were -7 Oklng around the subtle way so that
care about my- W110-7-9 time - This 1511 ' t its okay for them to
self. Atall. Ilet going to happen to us. look at us like ob-
myselfgo, with Wt. j u S t were no t jectsl Now tk have
an one. . . eo e to ta to.
yOne of my thinking’ It happened p lpalways wonder
friendscame to to me tha t week ’ if I am the only one
me about the , 7 who was raped by
drinking - Scott. I wonder if

which was about half the problem. But I
didn’t think anything was wrong. C‘mon

        

there is something I could have done to
have stopped it if I wasn’t.

 

    

PAGE 6 FEBRUARY 2, 1997

  news
Norval warns of new threats

Third World, will increase competition for scarce re-

STAFF WRITER sources. Norval predicted that would lead to mass mi-
What should we do with terrorists? “Hunt ‘em down grations, which heighten ethnic tensions, and to wars
and kill ‘em like rabid dogs,” Morgan Norval advised, between countries over dwindling resources. And the
not entirely joking. United States is equally at risk. “When there’s nothing

CQTQIFC

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 7

academic performance of a pledge. 2. No
pledge activities except community service
projects may be scheduled to occur outside
the Lexington city limits. 3. Pledge activities

GENERAL NOTES

DUPONT TO HOST TALK BY SCHAPIRO

BY SARAH MELDRUM

An opening reception and talk by exhibiting artist Miriam Schapiro

will be held in the duPont Gallery on Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 8 p.m. The
public is invited to attend.

“A Seamless Life,” works by Schapiro from 1961 to 1966 are currently
on exhibit in the duPontGallery until March 31. Gallery hours are Mon-
day through Friday, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Admission is free.

Schapiro will be spending three days on the W&L campus where she
will be visiting art classes in addition to presenting the public lecture in
conjunction with the reception for the exhibit on Tuesday.

Her visit to the university is being sponsored by the department of
ﬁne arts, the Glasgow Endowment Program, the visiting lecturers com-
mittee and endowments from the W&L Classes of ’63 and ’65.

EMINENT HISTORIAN TO LECTURE

Dr. Eugene D. Genovese will lecture at the Lenfest Center on
Wednesday, Feb. 1 l at 7:30 p.m. He will talk about his new book, A
Consuming Fire: The White Christian Response to the Fall of the
Confederacy, which focuses on how white Southerners came to
terms with their defeat through religion.

Dr. Genovese is the president of the Historical Society and the
retired scholar-in-residence of the Atlanta University Center. This
lecture is sponsored by The Contact Committee. Admission is free
and the public is invited to attend.

CHORAL GROUPS’ PRESENT
“SCIENCE CENTER SERENADE”

The Great Hall of W&L’s new Science Center will be the setting for an
evening of choral music presented by the university’s choral groups on
Thursday, Feb. 12 at 8:00 p.m. The public is invited to attend.

Renaissance music, as well as pieces from other various period
that were written to be performed in large cathedrals, will be offered
by the University Chamber Singers, directed by Gordon Spice, and
the University Chorus, directed by Scott Williamson and accompa-
nied by Joshua Harvey.

The groups will combine under the direction of gues conductor
Donald Nally to perform pieces by Mendelssohn, Schtltz, Barber, Beibl,
and Lauridsen. The ensembles will oﬁer a program of song that span
ﬁve centuries, from the 15th to the 20th centuries, that take advantage
of the acoustical properties of the science building’s Great Hall.

The “Science Center Serenade” is presented by W&L’s department
of music.

are only pennitted between the hours of 7 a.m.
and 10 p.m. 4. Pledge activities other than
study hall shall be permitted only on one night
during the academic week, Sunday through
Thursday. 5. A chapter will not ask pledges
to spend more than four hours total during
the academic week or ﬁve hours on a week-
end engaged in pledge or initiation activities.
Before the start of the pledgeship period,
all fraternities are required to submit pledge
education programs to the IFC Judicial Board.
These programs, which list the schedule of
pledge activities and the goals of pledgeship,

and social disorder.”

Norval, who spent ten years in southern Africa ﬁght- to lose, there’s nothing to fear,” he said.
ing terrorism, spoke Tuesday evening as part of
Contact’s Captive Nations Week.

He said the new world order is bringing new terror-
ists threats. “The world is more volatile, more uncertain
than it was in the Cold War.” He said former communist
nations are now afﬂicted by “debilitating fear, chaos,

are subject to approval by the Dean of Greek
Affairs. All ﬁfteen fratemity presidents and
pledge trainers have put signiﬁcant amounts
of time and effort into designing programs
which adhere to all of the above regulations.
Fraternity presidents have also shown posi-
tive initiative in voting to end all pledgeship
activity one week early this year. By March
22. 1998. all pledgeship nrograms must be
completed and all pledges must be initiated.
Activities such as the compelled consump-
tion of alcoholic beverages, physical abuse, sleep
deprivation, paddling, and other aixivities deemed
ashazing will inno waybetolerated Individuals!
suspected ofhazing will be referred to the Stu-
dentAffairs Committee Hearing Board and will
face possible suspension or expulsion. These
individuals may face criminal charges as well.
An effective pledgeship period depends
upon cooperation between three elements
in a fratemity: the fratemity leadership, the ‘
brotherhood, and the pledges. Washington
and Lee’s fraternity leaders have designed
ﬁﬁeen safe and effective pledgeship pro-
grams. Brothers in every house must ad-
here strictly to these programs when con-
ducting pledgeship activities. Pledges must
understand the general regulations for gov-
erning pledgeship and not tolerate hazing.

Would you like to work at a
Wyoming Guest Ranch this summer?

The A-Bar-A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of southern Wyoming,
surrounded by national forest and wilderness area. We have openings in all
areas of guest services. If you are available from early June to late August or
the end of September, we would like to talk with you about the possibility of
working with us this summer. The manager, Bob Howe, will be interviewing
on campus February 2. To arrange an interview or get an application check
at the Careers Ofﬁce. Or, check us out on—line and get an application at:
www.coolworks.com/a-bar-a/defaulthtm Questions? Call (303) 838-1950 or
email us at: abararanch@aol. com.

\ He warned that the United States is not adequately
prepared to ﬁght small groups of terrorists, which have
gained increasing military effectiveness. Some even
possess weapons of mass destruction, and are prepared
to use them. He pointed to the Tokyo subway attack by
Aum Shinri Kyo, the Supreme Truth Sect, which re-
leased sarin nerve gas on ﬁve subway trains on March

The rise of the information superhighway, while mak- 20, 1995, killing 1 1 and hurting about 5,500.
ing it possible for nations of the world to communicate
and work together, has facilitated the dissemination of
propaganda by terrorist groups.

Norval said that even though the United States has
the most efﬁcient military in the world, its unprepared
response to such attacks would be like the “redcoats”
The rapidly expanding population, especially of the marching through the forests of North America.

— Compiled by Heather McDonald

Sincerely, ,

A rue ARMY CAN HELP YOU
GETA silo ooo EDGE ..
on COl.LEGE.

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to
$40,000 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill plus the Army
 ‘ College Fund. V
Here’s how it works. Enlist
for four years. You then con-

Counselors wanted for residential

summer program at UVA for gifted

students 6/2.8-8/8/98. State of VA

application required - refer to Job
Category Code Q18AB £9” return to UVA
by 5:00 pm 5/1/98. Apply to UVA Dept.

_ of Human Resources, 914 Emmet St., PO

Nutrution workshop

BY ERICA PROssi=.R

STAFF WRITER

Students who don’t know the ﬁrst thing about eating healthy may learn something
Thursday night.

The Lifestyle Information For Everyone Wellness Group is sponsoring a nutrition
lecture and cooking demonstration at 7 p.m. in the dining area of the Delta Tau Delta

  
   

House. Admission is free, and the Washington and Lee community is welcome. BOX 9007 ’ Charlotesvﬂle VA 22906‘ For tribute $100 a month for the
“This is for busy college students,” said Wellness Group Chairwoman Cathy Moore. information about application Process ﬁrst Year ﬁ”0H1 YOUF 311,100
“There will be snacks afterwards and a booklet handout as a follow-up.” can 804/924-3 1 82_ EEO/AA ﬁrst Year S31a1'Y- The Army V

The session will be led by L.I.F.E. members, and the cooking demo and health tips the“ Contributes the remain’

der. Enlist for three years and

   

  

    

will target nutrition and proper eating among students. $33 000 E f
L.I.F.E. members came up with the idea while brainstorming ideas for a new you Cam ’ or en St or
CU  two years and earn $26,500.
program. - .
“ _ ” _ _ _ g V . Army opportunities get I
We always do things on substance abuse, etc., said Moore. She said that nutri- - ‘ are better every day. Ifyou
tion programs are almost never done, but that they are still very important to health. 6‘ qualify, you could train in one of over 200 challenging and reward-
If L.l.F.E. gets positive feedback on this program, Moore said that the group will ing high—tech skills in ﬁelds like avionics and electronics, satellites
consider expanding with more lectures and demonstrations. Until then, healthy cook- 6101  and microwave communications, computer and radar operations-
ing is just a free seminar away. ° 0 0 just t0 ﬂame 3 f6W. ii
9 EON It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
m m . Om 75 mmdmd mums ‘ about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.
C 0 French Immersion Pro rain The Crystal Tower Building
m . 9 Fine Arts Program 3 1 31 West Campbell Avenue  7  _ 8 8 6- 2 6 5 I ® 1
0-  ran . '$:;"1;°:i;h;::::f;':md g¢.:1or;o|3(:;Vi2|'4g;r(1’ia 24011 ENCE  WWAW%o%rnY}’gnI"  BE:
-LIL‘: ursions  ' '
H I 0 Cultural Ex:
 For more infbrmatio call or write:
.-m  g The American Uniiriersity of Paris _ 7
’::': Summer Programs, Box S-2000 ' . .
L - 0 102 rue St. Dominique  G S ‘N h
  o gm ;;i,.,-5;; ,, mm  mm W emester in as in ton
 '2 I Fa: 83/1; 4062 07 17 ENVELOBE STUFFlNG — $600 - S800 every week . . . i
Q ' L; NcwYork°$ce:Te|.(212)983_1414 Free DemI|==5.A'5;r:<:naﬁ°na‘|nc. An lliiilcrgrailiiatc Progra in in Political i'\lallJgCll1L‘l1t ,
 1375 Coney Island Ave. . ‘ ,
,»;:. i_::2 ‘9 Web Si[C— i...,,.//..m..,,.i. B'°°*<'vn- New York 11230 Spring, Suniincr, and Fall Sessions
‘_ F.-mail - Summer@aup.fr » ~ »
>~
11 (1 Make Connections to
S ummer l O17 S at  as lngton an Lee Launch Your Career
Counselors for Summer Scholars . _ . ‘
July 5-31,1998 9 Now Accepting Applications
Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program for 140 I‘lSlI(1lg high On A Rolling Admissions Basis 3
school seniors. Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10.stu. ents in Apply Now!
Graham—Lees dormitory and plan evening and week-end act1V1t1eS.
Application deadline IS February 24, 1998 session Deadlines,
$
. . - - Summ —M h 31,1998
Special Programs Resident Assistants °' 3"’
J 18 August 5 1998 F“"“"""° 1' 1993
IIIIB - 9
The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L students to seric/le as i
Resident Assistants for a wide variety of Special Programs me u ing Ther The Graduate
Alumni Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include 1&6 n School of I A _ - ~ .
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar receptions, and shuttle nlvergggl polmcag )1
. . . . . t. wAsuiN0i0~4 og anagefnen
dnV1ng' An Outgolng perSOna1l£:It3,p;lS_(/‘:;‘:1_01’l’lS dea dline’ March 15, 1998 GW isan equal opportunity/aliirinalive action insliluiion
For More Information, And To Receive An Application, Contact: -g’ ‘A H _, _. 9,
For further information, please contact the Office of Special Programs, lsool 367r:l4,7_7A6, (2,02)A99l.4-6:000 l1l'lp.://www.gwu.eclu/~gs‘pm .
Howard House, 463_8723 o.yv ccepiing pp lCOllOl'l5 On A Rolling Admissions Basis. -

 

  

lit reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

   ion
orial

FEB 2, 1998

PAGE 7

‘Time for another action
to be single sanction

During the year that it took for the Phi to put
together the Campus Rape package on pages four
and five, one point kept coming up. Why is rape
not considered a single-sanction offense‘?

‘l There are rumors ofa petition to make rape a
single-sanction offense at Washington and Lee. If
these rumors are true, this newspaper is behind
that petition 100 percent.

at The national statistics are frightening. Thirty-

five percent of college men would rape a woman

ifthey could get away with it. One in every six

women at this University will be raped. One in
; four will have rape attempted.

Honor is the cornerstone ofthis institution. It
is one ofthe main reasons that many of us chose
W&L as the place to continue our education.

3 While gaining book knowledge, we would also
I learn how to live honorably and become better
members of society.

Theft of material items is minor —— those
things in life can be replaced easily. Cheating in
class is wrong, but also relatively minor com-
pared to the life-long trauma of rape.

If the Executive Committee is correct in

, saying that there is no degree to honor, then why
is rape still something for which an individual
receives only social probation?

Not only is rape the theft of everything women
hold dear, trust, hope, and control, but it is an

3 outright lie by the perpetrator to deny that he
committed the act. Is raping a woman really
behaving like a gentleman?

It is time to move the honor system from its
rigid, academically-based foundation. Ifwe are
to learn to be “gentlemen” (in Robert E. Lee’s
eyes), how can we allow such amazing social
wrongs to continue at this school? The honor

,‘ system needs to be expanded to include all

aspects of W&L life. _

Lee was a progressive. He would have loved to
see women at his school. He would be appalled
to know that a W&L man would rape any woman

I and receive only probation.

To be honorable, this campus needs to recog-
nize that this is happening. To be honorable,
fraternity brothers should turn each other in for

'1 rape. To be honorable, this school needs to stop
denying that this happens.

There is no honor violation that anyone at this
school could commit that would be more severe.

“' cc r””““.
  uote of the week:

 

“Cow-tipping is better than sex..”

V.
~— Anonymous
4
Elli ii‘ 1 lﬂlf
Executive Editors Courtney Miller
‘V Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
4 Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
j Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz
D
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and

4.

subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
5 Submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not

Advertising does not reflect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

,( The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
3' E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

  
  

Stiff competition for White House internships

For this week’s Looney Bin I’ll be discussing the
latest presidential sex scandal, partly because it’s an is-
sue that a lot of people are talking about, but mostly
because I can’t think of a single original topic (like that’s
stopped me before...). -.

Now there are probably four or five of you out there
who think that Clinton didn’t do it. Well, this is the
opinion page, which means we’re not constrained by
the facts.

We go by my opinion, and my personal opinion is
that it’s really irrelevant whether or not he did it. The
whole thing makes for damned good comic material,
and comedy is more important than truth, so I say let
the oral sex innuendos commence.

 Looney Bin

Sure, Clinton has really blown it. His political ca-
reer is going down. It’s going to be hard for him to
come up with a rock solid alibi. Yet as much as this
scandal must suck for Bill, the media is practically hav-
ing an orgasm over the story.

I for one think that the media is completely off the
mark. They’re focusing on aspects of the scandal that
no one cares about —- such as the possibility that El
Presidente may be impeached.

Look, John Q. Multinationalmediaconglomerate, most
Americans haven’t the foggiest idea what impeachment is.
They can’t even spell impeachment. So keep your 25 cent
fancy book—leamin’ words to yourselves and just stick to
the basics: who, what, where, how many times a night, and
in which positions. '

The media should focus on the shame and outrage all
Americans feel dc to the simple

stand. Admit it, fellas. If we talk about this subject in mixed
company we’ ll all come down very harshly on Bill. “Oh, no,
infidelity is monstrous! Impeach him!” But deep down, we
all know we would have done the exact same thing if we had
a powerful political office, a wife that was out of town, and
an intern ready and willing to go for it.

 

-1

I’m sorry, ladies, but there’s something buried deep within 
the male psyche that will 1

fact that Monica Lewinski is
not remotely attractivel

She’s the kind of girl that
friends probably try to set up
with blind dates using the line,
“well, she’s got a great person-
ality.” As an American in good

You see, when a man gets aroused and
the blood rushes into Mr. Happy, it ’s
arriving from a tube connected
straight to the brain.

Hugh Grant syndrome —

standing, I find it disgraceful
that the most powerful man in
the world (next tot Bill Gates
and maybe Dean Manning) can’t find a better looking
woman to cheat with. I mean, Paula Jones was no prize
either, but now 01’ Billy Boy’s really scraping the bottom
of the nasty barrel. ,

Perhaps I shouldn’t be so critical. I suppose if I was
from Arkansas my standards wouldn’t be all that high ei-
ther. “Hey, at least she’s not my cousin” was probably the
only concern on Slick Willie’s mind as he unzipped his
trousers and began polling the constituents.

I must confess, though, that being a guy, I can under-

I5 Minutes of Shame

Tmwics F011 TGHNO T“?-
V", wqrg, HDUSE Thori-
HER-6,5 Yoga QFFICIAL.
Pen,’ AAQQ’ PHOTO. 
Pi2esioe~rmi. I<N55\°'*°5-

Fornigate

‘Camaraderie of the Doomed’

Crisis brings people together. True story:

A few weeks ago, everything was scheduled for Fri-
day. A Computer Science 312 project and a CS 211
project were both due that day. A multivariable calcu-
lus test and a geology test were lined up for noon and 1
o’clock, both on Friday.

 “Red Brick Row
‘“° 4;” “ David Balsley 99

I knew that I should have worked harder earlier in
the week to get everything done — or even better, the
week before, or possibly sometime during F all semes-
ter. 1 had worked hard and put in a lot of hours. Had I
worked even more, though, I would not have had so
much left to finish, I told myself. But there I was, on
Thursday night, with two unﬁnished projects left to do.

Time was running out. It was the type of situation
which makes you think, when Joe So-and-So dropped
out for a semester, they knew what they were doing.

I ate dinner, then dutifully marched to the Science
Building about 6:30 p.m. I gathered my books, a pen,
some paper and my last dying conviction that every-
thing would be alright. It was going to be a long evening.

A dozen other people had beat me there. When I sat
down to get to work, I sat down among a crowd of
people, all racing to ﬁnish the same work I was about to

 

“Never eat yellow snow.”

—— Keenan Weston ’01

l

“I stepped into a ig pi e ofsnow,
my foot sunk in, and llcouldn’t
find my shoe!

— Junko Ota, exhange student

do. They were quiet and anxious, as though they all ex-
pected to have long e . enings, too.

Then a funny thing happened. I’m not sure what it was,
but it could be called the Camaraderie of the Doomed.

Someone joked about how much work he had to do.
Someone else said there was no way she would get to bed
that night. A third said he would not only stay up all night,
but probably fail anyway as well.

Soon there was a chorus of people all talking about how
much they had to do and how little time they had to do it
and how they had promised themselves that this semester
would not be this way but already it was and so on.

We worked, moaned, worked, bitched, worked, com-
plained. All in all, if we had worked as much as we com-
plained, we would have finished twice the work in half the
time. We whined anyway. The amount of work I had to do
still frightened me. But somehow it seemed funny. It was
amusing that 1 could not have finished everything that night,
no matter what I did. It was comic that I was desperate.

Realizing that other people were in the same boat that I
was, and complaining with them that the boat was sinking,
helped me to make light of a bad situation. We seemed to
band together in our hopelessness. We were doomed, but
we were doomed together.

We worked well into the night, laughing and complain-
ing and carrying on, even though we should have cried —
the Camaraderie of the Doomed.

'..""Q‘-'

  

 

patch of snow.”

 

“When Ashley Mar-ano raced for
‘shotgun’ and wiped out on a

— Haley Hall ’oo

77

which can temporarily im-

cause us to throw away ev- I
erything for a quick lick to 
the [expletive deleted]. It 3
seems that the Y chromo- 
some carries with it a certain :
genetic deficiency —— called 1

pair reasoning functions. ;
(This opposed to women, '

who simply have no reasoning functions).

You see, when a man gets aroused and the blood rushes 1
into Mr. Happy, it’s arriving from a tube connected straight L
to the brain. Without this blood, the brain starts forgetting 
little details, like “you’re not my wife” or “you’re not attrac- «
tive” or “you’re my adopted daughter” (Woody Allen syn- ,

drome).

Bill has got to learn to veto his hormones. If he doesn’t, 3
his political career is going to bite the big one. Much like

Monica did...

More fun than
Jerry Springer

I realize that loyal readers of this column have come to
expect Swensen on a soapbox, tilting at various windmills
on campus with my mix of sarcasm and idealism.

In a move that I’m sure will greatly sadden all of you,

I am on no great moral crusade this week. Instead of '

asking you to change deeply held beliefs and attitudes, I
just want you to see a play this weekend.

 

I’ll admit it: I am no great patron of the arts. While it
doesn’t fill me with pride to say this, college basketball,
“Must See TV” on NBC, the Jerry Springer show and the
Friday night movies on Cinemax are generally higher on
my viewing list than the average theater production.

Of course, this is no average theatreproduction. First
and foremost, my friend Cassie Ritter is starring in the
play, a comedy by Beth Henley entitled “Crimes of the
Heart.” At the very least, she’s featured on the poster that
has been plastered all around campus (that’s her on the

« far left of the poster). ' ~ - :~

She asked me to plug her play in my column, expect-
ing only a few sentences at the end. Little did she know
her request would give me an excuse not to think of an
actual column topic this week. When I called her to say I
was stopping by her room for an interview, her reaction
was something along the lines of, “You’re doing what?”
Once I got there, she warmed up to the task. Slightly.

It turns out that this play has many of the elements I
enjoy in the Jerry Springer show. For example, Cassie’s
character, Babe Magrath, is beaten by her husbai.d, whom
she later shoots. Meanwhile, Babe, who is 24, is having
an affair with a 15-year-old and attempts to kill herself
twice, once by sticking her head in a gas oven. Appar-
ently, Babe and her two sisters have never gotten over the
death of their mother, who hanged herself in a closet 16
years ago — along with the family cat.

Now if that doesn’t sound like an episode of the Jerry
Springer show (minus the catfights, the burly security
guards and Springer’s “Final Thought”), I don’t know what
does. And that’s only one of the three sisters.

Unlike the Springer show, however, “Crimes of the
Heart” is actually well written; it won a Pulitzer Prize for
Literature in 1981.

Also, unlike Springer, the play is intentionally funny,
and every second word isn’t bleeped out.

Not actually having seen the play, I can’t promise that
it will be funny. However, I have been promised a slow
death if I don’t show up and watch the play at least once.
What better advertisement could you ask for than that?

1. Letters to the Ring-tum Phi

Pledgeship rules have been established by the IFC
Dear Ring-tum Phi,

With the start of winter term, the Interfratemity
Council wishes to help foster a better understanding of
the rules governing fraternity pledgeship. The general
regulations are clearly outlined in the 1997-98 Inter-
fratemity Council Constitution and are as follows: 1.
No pledging activities may take place in the dorrnito—
ries or dining hall. These activities cannot hinder the

(D SeeIFCpage6

What’s the strangest thing that’s ever happened to you in the snow?

    

 

 

I While snwboding, the fence w
holding on to gave way and I dragged
it all the way down the mountain."

— Jeff Wehner ’00

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

By Alex Christensen

Phi Movie Critic

A little update to start off: “Titanic” still sucks. And
it’s about to beat “E.T.” to become the biggest-gross-
ing ﬁlm of all time, excluding re-release proﬁts. I’m OK
with that.

There is really an entertaining and thought-provok-
ing ﬁlm playing in town. Barry Levinson’s “Wag the
Dog,” adapted for the screen by David Mamet, has been

getting a lot of press lately with this whole Clinton

porn scandal or whatever that is.Ever since the story
broke, the box ofﬁce takings on “Wag the Dog” have
gone up and up, which never happens.

It seems the ﬁlm resembles real life a little too closely.
In fact, it is real life, in the sense that whetheror not it’s
true, it’s true enough that we can’t know just how true
it might really be. Catch my drift? I know it’s a bit ofa
brain-teaser, but nevertheless, as George Bush would
say. “Nevertheless.” That’s all he would say. Creepy.

In “Wag the Dog,” the President is just a few days
away from the election when a scandal breaks: a little
Fireﬂy girl accuses the President of taking liberties with
her in the Oval Ofﬁce. This, as we say, could be bad.
Who gets the call? Conrad Brean (Robert De Niro), a
shadowy political ﬁxer who immediately comes up with
the perfect plan. If the nation can be distracted by some-
thing really big, like a war, the President could coast
into his second term and then deal with all of the messy
sex stuff.

A war? That means we need an enemy, a theme song,
a backstory. Enter Stanley R. Motss (Dustin Hoffman),
a Hollywood producer who specializes in making prob-
lems go away. “This is nothing,” is his motto. Brean
hires Motss to produce the “pageant,” and the thing
kicks into high gear.

The idea of creating a war out ofthin air may seem
implausible for some, and that’s why the movie was
made. It’s not just a fantasy, as I said before. It’s the
way things work, with a dark, cynical, and hilarious
twist: this time it’s not “true.” Of course this raises the
question of what is really true about any media phe-

Salesman’
Strangelove’.”

nomenon, which is what
major news stories have be-
come in our day and age. (I
don’t like to think ofmyself
as a wacko conspiracy theo-
rist. In fact, I resent the way
that the press has turned
the very word “con-
spiracy,” which simply
means a scheme involving
more than one person, into
a code word for “crazy.” Anybody who believes a
scheme involving more than one person could exist and
affect the world is crazy? When did this become the
accepted wisdom?)

The point is, all the American people need to go
along with anything ~ a really spectacular murder, a
war, a re-election —— are full stomachs, a few compelling
images, and a plausible storyline. If we’ve got all that,

“|t’|| be

meets ‘Dr.

NEW LINE C mam PRODUCITONS

. Po Do‘
By Hy lg IastWordEditor

_ Lexington is, admittedly, a small place. The social
scene here is not exactly a hotbed of action. There are
fraternity parties, but if you’ve seen one, you’ve seen

pens like some drunk guy pulling a pipe down). If you
want to listen to a local radio station that doesn’t have
frequent Hank Williams Flashback Hours, _well, good
luck to you. Even the Phi’s own restaurant reviewers
ran out of local places to review in an embarrassingly
short period of time, and were forced to move on to
bigger towns.
A I was abruptly reminded of this when I passed ﬁve
Virginia Military Institute cadets returning home early
one recent Saturday night. Not that simply passing them
caused me to remember, but when one of them shouted
repeatedly, “I HATE THIS (choice ‘words deleted here
because we’re running a family show) PLACE!” and
proceeded to punch a sign with the silhouettes of Bob
and George on it, I began to wonder about the social
scene here. (We’ll ignore the potential issues of disre-
spect and childish displays of anger for the time being.)

There are several constants I’ve noticed in my short
time at Washington and Lee.

struggling sport utility vehicle industry, for one. The
amazing number of women with surnames as first names,
and men with roman numerals aﬁer theirs, for another.
That khaki thing. The disturbingly high proportion of
students’ time spent desperately typing in the computer
lab as opposed to sleeping. And the unanimous and
oft-repeated complaint that there is simply
nothing to do.

Nothing to do but complain about how there’s noth-
ing to do. It’s become ritual. I have lived in towns with

“I9 TICUBIR WITII WIIIIGIS

‘em all (unless something really cool and exciting hap- _

‘skills that are going to help us out in the real world. This

The university-wide trend toward supporting the .

populations ranging from under 500 to somewhere in
the millions. And though some might be hard pressed
to believe it, there were activities in that town of 500
that did not involve cow -tipping. But I have come to
the conclusion that kids will always complain about the
lack of stimulating activities available in their place of
residence. It doesn’t matter whether they speak from
New York city or the thriving metropolis of Lexington.
And this is precisely the problem with whiners. I
have to spend time I could be passing in any of the
soon-to-be-mentioned-funner—’n-heck ways listening to
them do what they do best. Don’t get me wrong, I my-
self am prone to complaining every once in a while. -
However the fact remains that we are priveleged enough
to be spending four years on one of the most beautiful _
campuses in the nation which, conveniently for our fu-
ture incomes, is also ranked eighth academically. We’re
learning (albeit at the cost of much blood and sweat)

ain’t state school anymore, Toto. «

W&L is certainly not a perfect place, nor am I tum-
ing a blind eye to its’ imprefections. There are not a
zillion exciting things happening every minute. But get
over it. It’s become tiresome. Really, go take a spin ir1
your (sport utility) vehicle, crank your (louder-than-God)
stereo system and drive around in a very (loudly) un-
spoken statement of how great it is to simply be (you).
Gosh, what I meant to say is there’s just nothing like a
nice Friday night game of (strip) Twister, accompanied
by (rum and) Coke and a lively intellectual discussion
(on the merits of your favorite Spice Girl). Or God forbid,
just go to sleep.

See? There’s always something to do, even in Lex.
And even if there’s not, don’t let on because who knows
what would happen if professors were to suspect that
we didn’t have enough to do?

Colonnade Club

I abitoi Hunor, Opiionand Reviews
last Word ,
WAG THE DOG: FICTION MIRRORING REALITY?_

The pitch:
like ‘Speed-the-Plow’

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

we don’t ask questions. There are still a few people out

there who get disturbed when things fall into place a ‘

little too well, but just let them stick their heads up, like
Hillary Rodham Clinton did on the “Today” show last
week, and look out. Everybody yells “Nut!” and that’s
the end of the inquiry.

We don’t want to hear that C C

of staff, Willie Nelson as a country impresario, William

H. Macy (of “Fargo”) as a CIA operative, Woody}

Harrelson as an American hero, and Denis Leary as the
on-top-of-everything Fad King. Just watching them talk
to each other is the chief pleasure of the ﬁlm. Listen
closely, you might miss
something. My favorite

there is a group of people —
maybe not the same people,
maybe not well organized,
maybe not permanent — but a
group of people that invents
our national life for us, and we

It seems that the ﬁlm resembles real
life a little too closely  with the
whole Clinton scandal going on.

“Jim Belushi is Albanian.”
A close second is De
Niro’s: “Well, you get
some time, you could read
7 9 the cover.” You can pick ‘i

really have no say except at the

ballot box, and who votes any more anyway? “Those booths

are so claustrophobic. I can’t vote in conﬁned spaces.”
Mamet and Levinson provide a quick, witty script,

which is memorably acted with impeccable timing by

Hoffman, De Niro, Anne Heche as the President’s chief

your own.

A special mention should be made of the music. The
film is practically a musical; the songs and Mark
Knopﬂer’s guitar score are characters of their own in a
way that is rare on ﬁlm today, but completely in context
in the story. It’s ajoy.

  

"“"""’evell

MONDAY 35¢ 11:30 a.m. Monotony broken
only by the latest scintillating issue of the Phi
13¢ TUl3DAY 15?? 7:30 p.m. “Music in Mus-
lim Lands” lecture in Science Center by Hugh
Blackmer, obscure music guru. 51¢ WEDNES-
DAY 51¢ 7:30 p.m. Lecture in Northen Audi-
torium : “The Problem of Biological Individu-
ality,” by Associate Professor Jack Wilson 3‘?
7:30 p.m. SAB presents hypnotist Tom Deluoca
in Doremus Gymnasium 91¢  AY 51¢
7:30 p.m. Class of ’62 lecture in Northen Au-

ditorium — “Britain 2000: The Millenium is ,.
the Message,” with Associate Professor Brian
R:bha1dson.¢I¢‘= FRIDAY #145 7:30 p.m. Film
Society presents “Pillow Book” at the Trouba-
dour. H4? 8 p.m. Theatre Series: “Crimes of the
Heart,” in Lenfest’s Johnson Theatre $145 Ger-
man Play: “Hin und Her,” (German with En-
glish synopsis provided) in Lenfest’s Keller
Theatre. iii SAB Concert, “The Voltage Broth-
ers” in the Pavilion. $14 Deep Banana Blackout
at Sigma Nu 91¢ Bomb-Ass Valentines Day DJ
Party at Phi Kap 1*? SATURDAY 31¢ 2 p.m.

Women’s Basketball vs. Lynchburg in the 

Warner Center iii? 7 :30 p.m. “Pillow Book” 15145
8 p.m. “Crimes of the Heart” in the Lenfest’s
Johnson Theatre 51¢ “Hin und Her” in the
Lenfest’s Keller Theatre 11¢ DJ Party at the In-
ternational House iii Right On! at Kappa Sig
5145 Uncle Mingo at Pika 35¢ Lambda Chi’s
Nuclear Waste Party, featuring Rarely Heard

The frightening reel’ of our ,

campus conspiracy

By Kathryn  Managing Editor

This week the Phi received an anonymous letter
from an individual who claims that the Washington
and Lee adminstration is behind a massive and elabo-
rate conspiracy. The author threw around terms like
“secretive” and “masterful puppeteers” but didn’_t
really seem to know or understand the intricacies
that are at the heart of the conspiracy.

As ajournalist at this school, I’d like to think that
I’ve found out a little more about this administration
in the past four years than the average student, and
feel that it is my duty to inform. I actually have been
investigating this very conspiracy for the better part
of two years, and now, in light of this illuminating
letter from this exceptional, if a bit confused, stu-
dent, I have ﬁnally decided to go public with my
research. (If you’ve ever spotted a woman dressed
in a brown bear costume, wearing infrared glasses,
lumbering around campus at 3 a.m., that was me in
my disguise.) A ~

Well, here’s what I found out:

From the minute that you received your accep-
tance letter in the mail, you have been an unwilling
participant in an elaborate conspiracy. Within days
of your happy news, several undercover W&L op-
eratives posed as high school students and attended
classes with you. They wore wrinkled khakis and
beer-stained blue blazers. They told you that you'd
be “the bomb” if you bought a hunter green Grand
Cherokee and stacked heel loafers. They bugged
your house and your phone, finding out all of your
pet peeves and matching you up with a roomate that
they know will drive you to drink and eat incessantly,

nes

resulting in an average 80-pound weight gain by the?‘
end of Fall Term. They knew this would arive you so
insane that you would have to join a fraternity to
escape.

They convince you that cash is bad, and that uni-j
versity card debit points are really good. Since most
people here charge it all home to Mummy and Daddy,
it’s no skin off your teeth to throw $100 on General
Debit. On Monday you go to the Co-op and buy one
Tootsie Roll and a mini-packet of Advil. On Tues-7
day you buy a bag of Milano cookies and some fro-
zen yogurt. On Wednesday you attempt to buy a
pack of cigarettes and the Co-op lady says, “Sorry,
you’re out of money. Stop by the business office.”
Enough said. 7

Then there’s BYOB. Seems like a nice way to get
us all to drink a little less. Oh, but it really couldn’t
be that simple, could it? In fact, BYOB is all an elabo-
rate conspiracy headed up by NAFTA to promote“
the Mexican Pot Growers Association and to ensure
that W&L students increase their weed intake.

Then there’s the University’s plan to build a stu-
dent center, a parking garage and sorority housing.
They subversively call it “The Master Plan.” Throughﬂ
many long nights of slinking around Lee House in a
B&G uniform, I have discovered that it is actually
President Elrod’s master plan to become master of
the universe.

Ifthis all seems really hard to believe, consider"
this. What is more probable, that hazing is a con-
spiracy headed up by the Cat—o-Nine Tails and Whips
Association of America or that Monica Lewinsky is
involved in a conspiracy run by radical conserva-yr
tives trying to ruin Bill Clinton’s pristine reputation?

By Holhster Hovey

 

0H— lW0N'T.13l/f
l Hlzvervweée

  
   
 

(F r-lf7;2ﬂP%?;g7. the
fines A-96614
TH«ﬁZE"‘7 N0 U/t’<V\
l wuw rtroe. 1
WAVE 1?» arm’
WWELFIUW A’lPr  
Li-it/%AcoA@ui'FI“ l
’liva$ra'Lt 136 Nb
éoov-uvoevtz tx/IE’)

line is Willie Nelson’s: ,

 

J

 

 

 

 

 J ~X§.TiS%$og3f‘i‘é‘é”uili$‘eA$‘s‘.n
~ V‘/5/0? D ‘F’: .TON.VA 24450 P

W 0:1. Is YOUR IDEA OF COOKING W D:   13

F WOMEN'S BASKETBALL DEFEATS PB&J 7 EFHCA P305353 O 1998

M LYNCHBURG COLLEGE To TAKEA COM- TAKES A 3'75 OUT OF THE E  I | 
l O MANDING THREE GAME LEAD FOR FINAL MYTH THAT STUDENTS ARE W A C .

 PLAYOFF SPOT. CLUELESS IN THE KITCHEN F   5  I5

E Q) OVER FOR THE PERFECT MOVIE

~ in “
PAGE 4 PAGE 3 —| PAGE 6
‘ ~ Q . Bulk Rate
US Postage
. Lexington. Va.
  *  I  I Pcnl:l’i\‘I£°'7
Washington and Lee University Monday

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 14

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

«Hodges quits
,office over
smoking
‘policy “edict”

‘BY W111. HARDIE AND HEATHER MCDONAID

News Fprrons
Knight Professor of Journalism Louis Hodges an-

nounced Wednesday that he is quitting his campus office
because of the smoking ban imposed Jan. 12. He will work

‘gfrom home from now on, he said at a press conference in
the Reid Hall library.

“President Elrod’s recent edict prohibiting smoking in
this office has forced me to work elsewhere as much as

‘possible,’’ reads a notice on his office door. “ I will, of
course, remain readily available, especially to all students.
This office will remain open. Appointments may be made
through Mrs. Murchison  I regret this minor change as
much as I lament the policy that forced it.”

3,, “There is no way my smoking is going to bother any-
one,” Hodges said at the press conference. He said he
had two air filters in his office, and would not smoke in
front of students unless _.they suggested it. Hodges said
that not being able to smoke in his office was disruptive,
since he had to get up and leave his office, interrupting his
work.

President John Elrod said, “As we have said before,
Washington and Lee has had a long history of faculty
being in available to students in their ofﬁces. It is an hon-
orable and well-respected tradition, and I hope all profes-
sors will abide by it.”

Hodges said that the problem was not just about to-
bacco. “It’s further loss of individual liberty,” he said.

,, Hodges also said that the smoking policy wasia part of
a growing trend for W&L to be governed from the top
down. He said that W&L is now more hierarchical than
when the previous president, John Wilson, arrived. He calls
the policy change an “edict.”

*v( When asked to respond to that allegation, Elrod said,
“The new policy is in the best interests of the students.”
Why was the issue not put to a faculty vote? “It was an
academic decision,” he said.

. Hodges said he was disturbed by the lack of published

" response from students and faculty. He said that he re-
ceived support from smokers and non-smokers alike, but
no one came forward to protest the policy.

“I don’t expect the policy to be reversed. To undo the

g policy would be to admit a mistake,” Hodges said.

Hodges will now be working out of his home. Buildings
and Grounds workers moved his belongings out of his office
Thursday and Friday, and his new “office” will be ready to-
day. His new home computer and phone will be hooked up

'. to the University network. It was unclear whether the Uni-
versity or Hodges will pay for the new computer.

Claudette Artwick, Associate Professor of Mass Com-
munications and Journalism, moved into the office vacated

‘ by retired Professor of Journalism Ronald MacDonald at the

‘ start of the academic year. He smoked a pipe regularly in the
office. Artwick requested that B&G deep-clean the rug and
re-paint the walls. She said that afterwards there was no de-
tectable odor of smoke.

 

ﬂ Louis W. Hodges, Knight Professor of Journalism,
stands on his porch. He will now be working out of his
home, because he cannot smoke in his office due to the

”e"’ 5’"0/“"3 P°“Cy- HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

 FLYING AWAY TO NEVER-NEVER LAND

Sophomores Kelly “Wenay " Stewart, Kappa Delta, and Jason "Peter Pan" Nichols, Phi Delta Gamma, at the
“Famous Lovers” mixer between KD and Kappa Kappa Gamma.

HoL1.1sTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Ala. visitor charged for
making himself at home

(I) Sweet Home Alabama: felony burglary charge for confused Sigma Nu

WILL HARDIE
Nsws EDITOR

Ryan Stephens thought he had a
good reason for breaking into law stu-
dent Jessica Janov’s apartment and
crashing out on her couch. He told
police he was so drunk he thought he
was at home in Alabama.

Stephens, a student at Jacksonville
State University, had come to Lexing-
ton for a Sigma Nu party. At 1 1:10 p.m.
Saturday, after heavy drinking, he
found himself on Henry Street and
decided to try to get into J anov’s apart-
ment. She was out.

When he found the front door
locked, he smashed a six-by-three-inch
pane of glass in the door open it, ac-
cording to the police report.

W&L law student Jason Mayfield,
who lives in the next apartment, heard
the glass breaking. “I went out and
said to him, ‘what are you doing?’,
and he said something to the effect
of, I’m getting in my window,”
Mayfield said. “When he turned
round and talked to me, I could tell he
was pretty wasted.”

Mayfield called police, and officer
Michael Hess arrived at l l:l5. He saw
the broken glass and the open door,
and went inside to find Stephens
sprawled on the couch in the front room.

“I asked ifthis was his house two
or three times, and he said, yes.” said
Hess. But it was clear that Stephens
did not live there.

“I saw a bunch of ladies’ hair curl-
ers in the bathroom and I asked him
how often he used them,” said Hess.
According to the police report,
Mayﬂeld has straight, short hair.

Stephens was speaking rapidly and
slurring his speech, and had blood-
shot eyes. Hess said Stephens told him
that he thought he was at his house in
Jacksonville, Ala., and that he had for-
gotten his keys so had had to break
the window to get in. Hess charged
him with felony burglary, trespassing,
and public drunkenness.

Janov was at a lawyers’ ball at VMI
at the time, and found out about the
break—in when police turned up there
asking for her. She was unshaken by
the break- in, but was not sure whether

to believe Stephens’ story.

“What makes his story very shaky
is that he had looked at my bills and
he knew my name,” she said. “It makes
me wonder whether he really thought
this was his apartment. If his story is
true and he really thought it that it was
his home then he has got a real prob-
lem, if he was drinking that much.”

Hess said that Stephens had not
stolen anything, but agreed that his
story sounded odd.

“He was drunk, but he knew who
he was, he knew what frat house he
had been at and he knew what hotel
he was going to,” said Hess.

Janov is not eager to press charges.
“I would rather he went into an alco-
hol program than any action was taken
against him,” she said, “but it’s really
out of my hands now.” _

Stephens must return to Lexington
to attend court on Feb. 24.

Though it is unlikely he would be
given the full guideline sentence, if
found guilty of burglary and trespass-
ing Stephens could face between six
and 21 years injail.

‘Margand clarifies rape issues at Women’s Forum

BYSARAH MELDRUM
I

STAFF \WRlTI'-R

“Rape is a single sanction offense at Washington and Lee.”
With that statement, Nancy Margand, chair of the Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board started Tuesday night’s
Women’s Forum meeting.
ii Confusion and misunderstanding surrounds the pun-
ishment for rape at W&L, Margand said.
. According to the page 32 of the Student Handbook, rape,
defmed as forced sexual intercourse, will result in a dis-

 r

missal from the University. Other forms of sexual miscon-
duct may also be grounds for dismissal, although no one at
W&L has been convicted of rape for over five years. And
many rapes go unreported on this campus, Margand said.

The SFHB hears and judges cases of sexual misconduct,
but many victims do not know what to do after an attack.

“People will come in and say, ‘I didn’t know where to
go, so I didn’t say anything,” Margand said. She empha-
sized where to turn for help, and how to turn someone in,
needs to get out to the student body.

If students are victims of sexual assault, they should
seek medical attention regardless of their intent to pursue
charges. The school’s counselors can tell students their
options.

During freshman orientation, all students receive wam-
ings about rape and violence and advice about how to
respond to them. In the confusing rush ofinforrnation that
week, though, most papers are forgotten or shoved in a

CD

SEE RAPE PAGE 2

Professor
Conner skids
on ice, rolls
sport utility

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

MANAGING EDITOR

Although sport utility vehicles are extremely popular,
they come with some excess baggage. Most jeeps and
trucks bear a warning, stating that the vehicle has a ten-
dency to ﬂip. Assistant Professor of English Marc Conner
and is family found that out the hard way last week.

Conner, his wife and his 18-month—old son were making
their way to Lexington from their farm in the Timber Ridge
area through inclement weather Wednesday around noon.
Although Lexington‘ received a less than an inch of snow
last week, accompanied with rain, Conner’ s area received
six inches of snow Wednesday, two inches Thursday and
six more inches Friday. Conner lives about 6 miles from the
city of Lexington.

As the drove down a steep hill, Conner drove his 1995
Ford Explorer cautiously. However, when he hit a patch of
ice, the truck went into a skid and hit an embankment.

“Then we ﬂipped over and skidded about 10 feet,”
Conner said. “I was kind of wondering how long it was
going to last before we would stop. But I was mainly wor-
ried about my son and how he was doing.”

When the car finally came to a halt, they couldn’t get the
doors open. “I was able to crawl out the driver’s side win-
dow. My wife crawled in the back seat to get my son and I
helped them out one of the back windows,” Conner said.

“My son was crying and he looked a little wide-eyed,
but once we got him out of the car he started to laugh. I
think he wanted to go for the ride again.”

Conner said that he knew that Explorers have a propen-
sity for ﬂipping over. ‘

“It isia trade off between how the car will handle impact
and its tendency to roll. And although my car did roll, it
didn’t collapse and we were all uninjured.”

Conner canceled his classes for Wednesday and Thurs-
day. On Friday, he attempted to drive into Lexington in his
Toyota. On his way off the farm, he slid into a foot-and-a-
half snowdriﬁ and got stuck. “I just left the car there. Some
of the farm hands helped me tow it out later,” he said.

Conner said that he was usually very comfortable with
driving in the snow having lived in Washington, New Jer-
sey and Indiana.

Conner and his family did not leave their farm from Tues-
day night until Saturday morning. “We were all going nuts!
We couldn’t stand it,” he said. “The worst part of all of this
was that I had to miss class for three days. I also had to
move a paper date and a midterm.”

Students left
out in the cold

BY ERICA PROSSER
STAFF WRITER

Every winter, grade school children press their noses
against windows at the first ﬂake of snow, hoping for a
day without school. Washington and Lee students do
the same thing, but while Rockbridge County grade
schools close for just a few inches of accumulation, W&L
classes are never canceled for such a small snowfall.

“Ice or a blizzard are the only conditions that we will
cancel school for,” said Scott Beebe, Director of Build-
ings and Grounds. “The road conditions and campus
conditions have to be judged unsafe before we’ll close.”
Who decides what “unsafe” is? President John Elrod
would make the ultimate decision to close the school, but
he would consult with Beebe before doing so. ,

“The President asks if I can make the campus safe,”
Beebe said.

“We confer in the morning, about 5:30 a.m., on days
[when the weather is questionable].”

W&L students may get annoyed that the few inches
of snow that keep them trapped in the country are not
enough to cancel classes. That doesn’t bother Beebe.

“We’re not like the Rockbridge County schools,” he
said. “We don’t need the whole county to be cleared
before we can open.”

Some students are disgruntled about how rare class
cancellations are. One junior said that the policy seems
like a way to maintain W&L‘s “macho reputation.”

‘‘It isn’t necessary to make everyone drudge through
a ridiculous icy mess just to be able to say that W&L
never closes,” she said.

Junior Megan Carleton agreed.

“I believe the weather policy is a bit extreme,” she said.
‘‘I value my life more than my education. When I hydro-
plane to class at 20 miles per hour, there’s gotta be some-
thing wrong.”

CD

SEE SNOW PAGE 2

 

 

Perhaps Dan was too busy with making hislown ,
' Valentine’s Day plans this week to write his column. ‘,
, As an alternative, we otfertwo handy top-ten listsyo,
- jump-start your February Break. ‘ « " ’

TOP TEN PLACES FOR W&L STUDENTS 
To HOOK UP AT 3 A.M.

10. The 50-yard line ofwilson Field
‘9. The Lexington Post Office .
8._ Graham-‘Lees/Gilliam laundry rooms
7. I Libra:ry’locked~study carrels
6. 'I‘heJ-school computer room
-5. Moot Courtroom
4., Chi Psi late night
i 3.('Thelibrary roof , , ~
2. virgmia Military Institute academicﬂbuildingsg9:; 
I. The Ring-tum“Phi office  * ‘  I I Q

 

  
 

TORIEN PICK-UPLINES To use  AM. 9‘
10. Nice shoes.....  V‘ ,  .
9.’ Was it love at ﬁrstsight, or should Iwallt by 
8. Would you like to have breakfast tomorrow? Should, A

I nudge you or call you? A‘ "I
7. ‘My name isn’t Fred Flintstone, but I could sure) I
I . make yourBed—rock., , ' _ I  H’ A
A 6. Damn! [thought Very Fine Ionlycamein acanl‘ _ V
5. I Pardon me miss, Illseem to have lost my phone ,
number. Could I borrowyours? . L I A  
, 4. ’I’ve had a pretty bad day, and it usually makes Inc I 9
feel better to see a pretty girl smile. SoL..wouldyou' . I.
careto smile forme? , . V . “ll 9 .
v 3. That dress looks,nice.;,O‘f course, it would look :
 even better crumpled  in the  of’ . 

can see myself‘. in your pants!
1. Take me drunk;I’ni home.

 

Needrnore?Checkoutht1p://www: .ithaca.edu/oI*gs’pIW 

I 2. Do you wash clothes in Windex?- Because  7 I

 snow

IICWS

FEBRUARY 9, 1998 E

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Beebe said he was surprised by
how many W&L students don’t
dress appropriately for the weather.
He suggested that students wear
clothing designed for walking in the
snow, since there is no chance the
school will close for flurries.

“I see students in high-heeled
pumps walking through the snow,”
he said. “I mean, get some boots!”

According to a popular campus
rumor, when the school closed for
a few inches of snow in 1962, the
students all left to go skiing. The
administration‘ got so angry that
they vowed never to cancel
classes for just a few inches of
snow again. Beebe, who has heard
that rumor, cannot confirm its
truth, but he said that any past
closing problems have no bearing
on current school closings.

The last time W&L closed was
in January 1996. The Blizzard of
’96 had just deposited three feet
of snow on the ground, and stu-
dents and faculty could not make
it back to W&L from Christmas
break. Classes were canceled for
two days.

Before that, W&L closed in
January 1995. In that case, ice was
the culprit, keeping roads and side-
walks dangerous. That closure was
also due. in nart. to Virginia Power.

They asked W&L to close down
that day to conserve power in the
freezing Rockbridge County.

“I got complaints from faculty
who did manage to make it in that
year,” Beebe said. “They’d get
out of their cars and slip, then
complain about the ice.”

When the school actually does
close, the word needs to be spread
to students and faculty. Brian

Shaw, Director of Communica-_

tions and Public Relations, has
the job of notifying the W&L
community. “We want class to
continue, but not at the expense
of safety,” he said.

Shaw maintains a weather line that
anyone can call. He is not sure how
popular the weather line is, but he
has one good clue.

“We can’t count the number of
calls on the weather line,” he said.

“But there’s a woman in Lexing-
ton whose phone number is one
digit off of the weather line. She
complained that she got over 100
calls from students last week, ask-
ing her about the weather.”

Just in case the weather is threat-
ening, the weather line number is
462-GOOD. Students can call any-
time to hear an automated response
detailing W&L’s operating hours for
that day.

member. Thankyou.

ECADDRESSES.
   oursioe   

_ A .- ; fIfhe‘Executive Committee has received.queriresl,w  tltepiiiitjlica-;7,’
 tions of the Honor System with regard to the ”tise"6f false  .
. tions. While it is not customary forthe Exject;nyé‘t:ommieeé to tea
/I spend to hypothetical inquiries regarding potentialvlionor V19, atiohs; 
, the Committee will, on occasion, comment on-certain issues‘ where I
. some confusion or much discussion exists. , 9", lg,  V, I
‘ I f Students should note that the use of a fake ID, whetltef ‘
‘ j,Lexiiig'ton, may be considered an Honor Violation.  
 Executive Comn‘iitt?:e.merely seeks to have} students consider‘
:*stIs1‘ej consequences of using,a.faI<e.ID in light ofthe
, lgiponer System. The Committee maintains its policyofnot ey, ,
“an inclusive or exclusive code of honorable_ conduct}.
ff  Committee, encourages students to add ‘$5 9,
cerning the 'Honor;,System or student government In '”g‘ene’ral'to

I .~ #?¥evi2.1?s'*€ﬁ> €.~¢~

I

   
   
  
   

 

HOUSING Q&A SESSION TO BE HELD TONIGHT

A Question-and-Answer Session about the Housing Application process will be held to-
night at 8:00 p.m., in the Commerce School, Room 327. Rising sophomores are reminded that
they are required to live in University housing, and no matter what their housing plans-frater-
nity house, theme house, Gaines Hall, or Woods Creek Apartments-they must submit a Hous-
ing Preference Fonn no later than noon on‘Friday, Feb. 13, in Payne Hall 4.

EATING DISORDER SCREENING AFTER FEB. BREAK '-

W&L will be participating in the National Eating Disorders Screening Program. Students will
be able to take a brief screening test for eating disorders and have an immediate evaluation from
one of our professional counselors. The screening will take place between 9:00 a.m. to 3 :00 p.m.
on Wednesday, Feb. 25, in Room 108 of the University Center. The scoring will be done by a I
nurse from the Health Center. Anne McThenia, University Counselor, and J an Kaufman, Health
Educator, will be available for consultation and evaluation after the screening test. An infOrma- I
tional slide show will also be presented by LIFE on Tuesday, Feb. 24, at 8:30 p.m. in the
University Center, Room 109. Questions? Please call the Counseling Service at 463-8590 or

Health Education office at 462-450 1. I
PHI ETA SIGMA SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS DUE
All current members of Phi Eta Sigma are eligible to receive scholarships for graduate or ‘

undergraduate work. Scholarships of $2,000 and $1,000 are available for undergraduate work;
for graduate work scholarships are in the amount of $2,000. Washington and Lee will nominate
one student for the undergraduate work scholarship; applications for the graduate scholar-
ships are unlimited. All applications are due March 1. Interested students please see Dean
West-Settle on or before Feb. 16. I y

— compiled by Heather McDonald

 RAPE

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

desk drawer. “What frustrates me is that when you need it, people don’t know where to look,” Margand
said.

The high alcohol consumption rate on campus aggravates the problem of acquantance rape and 1'‘
assault, Margand said. If a woman is incapacitated, she cannot give consent. Margand said that those
cases can be difficult for the SFHB to decide, especially if both parties are drunk.

“How are they to know if he’s telling the truth, and so is she?” Margand asked. “He may think she
gave consent, she may think she refused, but then both are drunk, no one can be sure.”

Many students are brought forward on conduct charges, which carry lesser penalties, such as
social probation, if an accused is found guilty. When the SFHB hears a case, it posts its ﬁndings on
campus in the same manner used by the EC. The SFHB must trust the convicted student to obey the
probation because the names of students involved are kept confidential. The student body must rely
on the honor of the convicted student. If he is caught breaking the probation, he is dismissed from ,.
school. Only people who were involved in the investigation are the only ones who can catch him.

Margand agreed that social probation seems like a minor punishment for some forms of sexual
misconduct. “We ought to be treating [sexual misconduct] more seriously than we are,” she said.

, « 
Apt for RENT, , . . . V
T //
0%,, EXCELLEN 72‘/E MAJORS 54/? /5 C0/W/V5,. ,
LOCATION,

CUTS ,
cry-°>ta' 5010 3 BEDROOM’ @ Are you still confused about choosing a major? ‘
Tower 73 MICROWAVE
Building  . ' h
131 Wes, CORRECT/ON FOR MORE  Would you like to have a chance to talk Wlt r
¢:..v.::::II F0/U/V6 INFORMATION’ V faculty and explore SEVERAL majors?

Rea-_-o_ke. CALL 465'76q) ® Does your dayplanncr always seem to overlook '
};';:',',";:,i‘;’1;,, UWENCE this IMPORTANT activity?
NOT TO WORRY.’
3 Bed Apt 93-99 Music Indus")! —The MAJORS FAIR is coming to your rescue!———
School Year Opportunity. ,
Vl‘é?SSr:‘V€\=,;‘/grzlél:-‘V Breaking Join your favorite members Of the faculty and a
Microwave e(eA;::“' star senior from each Of the majors: 1‘ :
Short walk from _"998 cones’: T d F b 10 1998
W&L _ e 1- a
308 McLaughlin Relprest-e:tatIv¢tes. “es ay9 u 1y 9 ’
St t npal grea _ . , _ - -
Cafifany be,,e’ﬁts 5.30 — 6.45 p.m. Evans Dining Hall
Swisher Call Mr. Wilkins ,
:66§’:97§§§)((l:;fri::)) at (803) 7793803 The format is informal, remember this is a FAIR!
There will be PRIZES, GIFTS, and a DRAWING FOR "
DINNER FOR TWO at the WILLSON—WALKER House!

 

  

  

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

  

Lenfest Center’s
_|atest production
showcases women

‘BYCOUR’INEYMlI.LER

4 B1rRr;vrwnz

Although “Crimes of the Heart” is a refreshing ve-
hicle to showcase the talented actresses at Washington
and Lee, the two-and-a—half-hour play needed a jump start
during the first act of Saturday’s performance. In con-
trast, the ﬁnal two acts bristled with electricity and energy
between the Magrath sisters.

Currently playing at the Johnson
Theater in Lenfest Center, “Crimes of

3 the Heart” centers around the Magrath
women, who are eccentrically southern.
The sisters, Lenny (Holly Estes ’00),
Meg (Megan Johnson ’98) and Babe
(Cassie Ritter ’0 1) have come together
to support Babe, who hasjust shot her
abusive husband.

Johnson ﬁilﬁlls the production re-
quirement of her senior thesis with this

* production. She is conﬁdent and sin-.
cere in her portrayal of Meg, the middle sister who returns
ﬁom California.

Estes makes her debut on the Lenfest stage as Lenny,
the older sister who, at age 30, is stuck playing mother to

"' her sisters and nursemaid to her grandfather. While Estes
is strong when interacting with other sisters, she was over-

 

HOLLY ESTES, Megan Johnson and
Cassie Ritter are the Magrath sisters in
Crimes of the Heart.

0:”

whelmed in the ﬁrst act. However, by the end of the play,
she had come alive thereby giving Lenny the charm and
vitality she lacked in earlier scenes. While part of this is
due to Beth Henley’s script, which won the Pulitzer Prize
for Literature in 1981, Estes seemed to lack presence and
conﬁdence on stage during the first act.

Ritter as Babe, “the prettiest and most perfect of the
three...” makes her debut in W&L theater. Ritter is con-
vincing as the sweet, juvenile sister and the scenes be-
tween her and Johnson are the best in the play. Especially
in the second act, when Babe confesses to Meg her affair
with a 15-year-old black boy.

The supporting cast includes Chick (Alyssa Sellers
’99), Doc Porter (Ryan Truax ’0 1 ) and Barnette (Peter Duvall
’00). Sellers, who most recently played the narmy in “Uncle
Vanya,” is a fabulous character actor.
She milked the part of Chick and
seemed to genuinely enjoy the role,
especially being chased out the door
with a broom.

Truax and Duvall seemed lost
among a cast of such strong females.
Duvall’s weak accent and Truax’s dis-
appearing limp did little to strengthen
their contribution to the cast.

The actresses’ costumes were par-
ticularly fun, especially for a play set in
the early 1980s.

Overall ,“Crimes of the Heart” is a strong play. It sold out its
weekend perfonnances. It is refreshing to see women dominat-
ing the Lenfest stage. Johnson should be more than satisﬁed
with her senior thesis performance and Ritter and Estes should
look forward to more ﬁne performances on the stage.

 Final shows are tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m.

Puaucnr Prroro

W&life

rimes
he Heart

Mil“ 3

Hey goodlooking,

«Whatcha

_got cookin’?

BY ERICA PRossr~:R

 

STAFF \Y/iznnz

unior Elizabeth Huston eats on
Y campus and in restaurants, but she
never cooks.

“The only thing I ever make for my-
self is tea, which I don’t think counts
as cooking,” she said. She has a full

It kitchen at her disposal. She does not
use it, but she is completely happy
with her lack of cooking habits.

Is Huston typical, or do college
students actually cook more than most

" people expect?

The widespread myth is that
Huston is typical. Students are not
expected to be gourmets, or even

'slightly adept in the kitchen. Even

‘Julia Child, the famous chef, didn’t

have her ﬁrst bite of French cuisine un-
til she was 37 and long out of school.

Writers make fortunes from books

1 like “The Student’s Cookbook” which
feature recipes any well—trained dog
could manage. Do all W&L upperclass-
men leave their own kitchens empty
while they dine out, as Huston does?

Against the expectations of most
people, some students actually cook,
and often. Senior Jake Sewall cooks
every day, and he never uses a boxed
4 mix like Hamburger Helper.

“I make salad, steamed vegetables,
broiled steak, and homemade bread,” he
said. He uses a ten-meal plan for
lunches and dinners during the week,

I but weekday breakfasts and weekend
meals mean breaking out the cookbook.
One dessert he made
recently for a date was ‘ C
a French custard recipe
which called for con-

 

I

Iwasamacand

” and his breakfasts are

grand affairs consist-
ing of waffles, pancakes, or biscuits,
all prepared from scratch. He even

‘uses pure butter and pure maple

syrup. He, like Huston, is the excep-
tion to the rule; most students fall
somewhere in between.

Jerry Darrell, director of Dining Ser-

hfvices, said that most upperclassmen

take advantage of meal plans and food

debits on campus, even though most

of them have kitchens of their own.
“80 to 85 percent of the [upperclass]

SOPHOMORE ADAM HENRY in the kitchen.

student body uses the food debit declin-
ing balance system,” Darrell said. Stu-
dents keep money on their university
cards which they can use to buy food
tax-free on campus. It is the most popu-
lar meal plan among upperclassmen.

Still, Darrell said, about 150 upper-
classmen take advantage of the ﬁve-
and ten-meal plans. These plans al-
low students to buy meals at all three
W&L dining spots. The students re-
ceive ﬁve or ten meals per week, but
unused meals from one week do not
carry over into the next week. Both
plans feature a “plus” option, as well;
that means that a set food debit bal-
ance can be maintained along with the
ﬁve or ten allotted meals.

Freshmen are required to use the 20-
meal plan, which is the most restrictive
of the plans. All 20 meals must be used
in Evans Dining Hall, and the plan does
not include a food debit. Only a dozen
upperclassmen use the 20-meal plan,
Darrell said.

Dining on campus, then, is a fre-
quently-used choice, even among stu-
dents with kitchens. Huston’s cooking
abstinence, however, is an exception,
not a rule. Most students do make use
of their kitchens, though not usually
with the ﬂair of the Frugal Gourmet.

Junior Sarah Meldrum said that she
uses her ﬁve-meal plan
for lunches on campus
and cooks dinner with
her roommates in their

stant stirring for more cheeseconnolsseurr Woods Creek apart-
than two hours. Sewall but over winter break merit.
stirred dili entl , and “ Wedo thin slike
«the dessertg carrl/e out my mom bought sourl, rice,] potftoes,
perfectly. me “C00kZ'7’1g F01‘ pasta, frozen pizza, but
Sewall also bakes Dblmmies. H sometimes we go all
loaves of bread from out with a real meal,”
scratch every week, T" Nathan Hager she said. A real meal,

97 according to

Meldrum, includes a
meat dish, vegetables, bread, and other
well-balanced courses. She said that
the four of them sit down together like a
family and enjoy dinner.

Junior Rebecca Fitzsimmons’ eating
habits are just that: habit. She eats the
same dishes nearly all the time, but her
dinners do require the use of a kitchen.
“For dinner I will have one of the fol-
lowing things 99 percent of the time:
macaroni (easy to make—just boil wa-
ter), a fat free hot dog, or two bagels

 

H0u1srF1z Hover/Puoro EDIIUR

with fat free cream cheese,” she said.

Junior Nathan Hager said that this
year has brought about an increase in
the amount of cooking he does, but that
last term, he was less capable than
Fitzsimmons. “Last tenn, I didn’t know
how to make mashed potatoes. I was a
mac and cheese connoisseur,” he said.
“But over winter break, my mom bought
me “Cooking For Dummies,” and it has
a recipe for mashed potatoes. Now I’ve
progressed enough in my cooking skills
so I can follow very simple recipes, but
I still rely a lot on reheating frozen food.”

Why don’t students cook more of-
ten? The expectation here is that
students simply don’t have
the ability to cook. W&L
students disagree, however.
“The cooking part is fun,”
Meldrum said. “It’s the clean-
ing up later that’s a pain.”

Cleaning is indeed a cook-
ing deterrent, but the most prevalent de-
terrent is the time necessary to ﬁx some-
thing nicer than pizza.

“I don’t have time to ﬁx the kinds
of food that I want; they take too
long,” junior Jessica Simpson said.
“I’m usually way to hungry to wait
for something that I have to put in the
oven or on the stove.”

Fitzsimmons said that cooking
comes down to time priorities. “I
would rather sleep later than get up
and cook a big breakfast,” she said.

Are students happy with this ar-
rangement? Huston is happy just mak-
ing tea, and Simpson and Fitzsimmons
are both content with their arrange-
ments. In fact, the only person who
expressed any discontent was Sewall.

“I wish I cooked more,” he said.

Students may want to take cook-
ing a little more seriously, though;
some students ﬁnd cooking ability at-
tractive in members of the opposite
sex. Sewall’s idea ofa date is to make
a full gourmet dinner for his guest.
Hillary Coombs said that cooking is
an odd choice for a ﬁrst date, but a
great idea aﬁer a few dates. Clean-
up, again, is a major concern, though.

Coombs’ roomates threw a dinner
party for her birthday. “I said, ‘This
is a really nice idea, guys, but ifl have
to clean this stuff up, it’s not nearly
as nice.’ Everybody stayed and
helped clean up afterward.”

 

PAGE 3

CRIMES OF THE HEART, Beth Henley ’s Pulitzer prize—winning play, centers around three passionate, eccentric southern

women who harbor secrets they are cgfaial to share. Tonight and Tomorrow at 8 p. m.

PI/Bucnr P1-I070

HELP FD Committee needs
WANTED; more contract workers

BY KHLEY TOITH\I

STAFF Wizrraz

t’s money, baby, money. For all those Washington &

Lee swingers who think they can’t afford to go to the

Fancy Dress Ball this year, think again. Power tools
and paintbrushes can ﬁnance your FD.

The FD Committee is looking for contract workers to
help build and decorate Doremeus Gymnasium for the ball.

“You can’t build the whole FD with just 50 people,”
said Carolyn Lee, the committee’s auditor. The committee
hires students to help with the actual construction de-
signed over months of planning. Contract workers also
paint sets, sell memorabilia and do various other odd jobs.

Contractors are expected to work 25 hours between
now and Friday, March 6, the day of the ball. In exchange,
they will receive tickets for two people and a memorabilia
package for one. ’

The work started in the Pavilion on Saturday and will
continue there until the week before FD, when everything
will be moved to the gym.

“It’s a really fun way to get involved in FD,” said Jenni-
fer Justema, president of the committee. “It doesn’t take
too much time and energy and [students] can have a really
ﬁrn time with it.”

One of the perks for contractors includes ﬁnding out

the secret theme before the rest of the W&L

community. Lee hinted at a “particularly intricate construc-
tion” that will require a lot of talented carpenters. She
refused to comment further.

“It’s something that they’ve ne‘ver"seén before,” said
construction co-chair Christine Bragg. The design of this
year’s FD has been a collaborative effort between the con-
struction and decoration committees, said Bragg, who en-
visioned this year’s gala along with co-chair Matthew
Kirby-Smith, junior, and decoration committee chair Jenny
Stone, junior.

“Any help from anybody would be great,” said Bragg,
who mentioned that contractors could even have a say in
some of the final decisions and decor. “It’s not all set in
stone —— we’re still using new ideas.”

Approximately $70,000 will be spent on this year’s FD,
said Lee. The majority of the funds will be spent on the
decorations and the bands.

Invitations, which will reveal the theme, will be sent out
over the Washington holiday. Tickets and memorabilia will
be available starting March 2 in the University Center.

So far, approximately 30 people have signed up to help.
Ideally, the committee would like to have at least 40 work-
ers. Anyone interested should call either Justema at 464-
5220 or Mary Michael Pettyjohn at 464-5924.

“We’re not going to be able to pull this off without
teamwork,” Bragg said. “It will be a roaring good time.”

BY ROBERT SEIN
——-—-—-—-—— smut/am

Sadly, Valentine’s Day (along
with St. Patrick’s Day and, if you stay
on campus, Thanksgiving) seems to
be one of those holidays that fades
into unimportance once you get to
college. As grade school students,
reminders of the prevailing holiday
surrounded us in the form of paper
cut-outs, dioramas and posters.
Most of us remember our elemen-
tary school teachers demanding that
we cut out little red hearts to give to
our moms.

dead.”

Scarcely more ro-

Cupid comes to campus

liberately or accidently forgotten. Many
students seem to think that giving a
Valentine’s Day feature article space
alongside “legitimate” articles is to give
it undeserved status.

This year, Valentine’s Day falls on a
Saturday —the day af-
ter Friday the l3th —
a black omen for some
students. Vanessa Hall,
senior, numbers among
those disenchanted by
the holiday. “In the
Neitzschian sense,” she
said, “God, and Love, is

more Angelo DiStefano hopes to
score big this Valentine’s Day with his
pick-up line: “I may not have the best
body, but you know what? You do.”

When asked to sum up his
Valentine’s Day plans, Junior Pat
Driscoll stated mat-
ter-of-factly: “Just
shag, baby.”

Some prefer a
more sensitive ap-

Cé

Some girl gave
me chocolate

boobs one proach. Anurag

. , Chandra, senior and
Valentine sDay. dOrm_counSel0r
—BlllWarn0Ck extraordinaire,

’? thinks women are
best appealed to

As far as I know, few professors at
Washington and Lee suspend their
scheduled lectures to make Valentine’s
Day cards. So, for the W&L student
who hasn’t been stung by Cupid’s
arrow, the holiday is most often de-

Ho1.I.Is775R Hoi'r;r/PHo7o EDIIUR

 

mantic, “a blank check” is sophomore
Mike Healey’s prefered method to
convey his undying passion.
Stephanie Frank,junior, thinks of her-
self as one of the casualties of this
mentality. “My male and female friends
never give me Valentine’s Day gifts,”
said Frank, “because my birthday is
the next day.”

The student body as a whole,
however, seems eager to throw away
the apathy and get a little crazy. Just
ask Bill Wamock, a senior who, speak-
ing only in vague terms, claimed that
“some girl gave me chocolate boobs
one Valentine’s Day.”

Senior Kris O’Neal suggested a
similarly direct route: “Just ask her to
come home with you” was his advice
to aspirants for a lady’s heart. Sopho-

through their stomachs. “Have a
romantic dinner,” he said, “but don’t
go out — cook it yourself.”

Marisa Frost, senior, agreed. She
thinks the best Valentine’s Day giﬁ
is food. When pressed to be more
speciﬁc, she qualified it by saying
“anything but soup; and nothing
you consume with a straw — that’s
not sexy.”

Junior Jeff Mitchell, quite the Don
Juan, suggests that the best way to ro-
mance a girl is to “take her to some cul-
tural event.” A poem is the way to a
woman’s heart insists sensitive man
Geofﬁey Haydon, sophomore.

Whatever your style, Valentine’s
Day presents a unique opportunity
to make spur-of-the—moment moves
fqr that special someone.

 

    

PAGE 4

 

REsuL1's

Men’s Basketball (9-10)

Mon.: W&L 57
Va. Wesleyan 68

Wed.: W&L 57
Bridgewater 53

Sat.: W&L 70
E. Mennonite 87

Worrien’s Basketball

(9-11)

Tue.: W&L 69
E&H 79

Thur: W&L 65
Va. Wesleyan 74

Sat.: Lynchburg 48
W&L 55
Wrestling

Saturday: Finished third of
three teams at Va. State
Tournament

AHEAD

Monday

Men’s Basketball -
Randolph-Macon

7:30 p.m., Warner Center

Tuesday

Women’s Basketball -
at E. Mennonite, 7:00 p.m.
Women's Swimming —
Hollins

6:30 p.m., Warner Center

Wednesday
Men’s Basketball —-
at Lynchburg, 7:30 p.m.

Thursday

Women’s Basketball —
Hollins

7:00 p.m., Warner Center

Saturday

Men’s Basketball —
at Roanoke, 7:30 p.m.
Women's Basketball -
at Roanoke, 4:30 p.m.
Men’s Track -

at Va. Tech Invitational.

Sunday
Women’s Track —
at Dickinson Invitational

Give your intramural or
club team’s pictures
and results to

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂliil

Drop them in our mailbox in the University Center

Women take three-
game lead for last
playoff spot

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—"“"""""“""‘? STAFF WRHER

The Washington & Lee women’s
basketball team came up with a huge
victory on Saturday aﬁemoon at the
Warner Center as they defeated the
Lynchburg College Homets 55-48. The
win snapped the Generals’ four—game
losing streak and put them one step
closer to securing a birth in the ODAC
tournament.

Of the eleven teams that compete in
the ODAC in women’s basketball, only
eight qualify for the toumament. W&L
(6-1 1 ODAC, 9-1 1 overall) now stands
in eighth place in the ODAC and has a
three-garne lead in the win column over
ninth place Lynchburg (3-1 1 ODAC, 4-
13 overall).

The Generals got off to a fast start
and led 20-8 midway through the first
half but soon ran into problems against
the Homets’ zone press. The Generals
went scoreless for over 8:00 and
Lynchburg closed out the half with a
20-4 run which gave the Hornets a 28-
24 lead as Julie McClure banked in a
long three-pointer at the buzzer.

In the second half, the Generals came
storming back to take the lead behind
the hot shooting ofjunior Amber Hinkle
and sophomore Ansley Miller and led
Lynchburg 50-41 with less than ﬁve min-
utes left in the game. The Hornets then
went on a quick 7-0 spurt to cut the
Generals’ lead to 50-48 withl :57 remain-
ing, but the Generals scored the last ﬁve
points of the game to come away with
the victory.

The Generals, ranked first in the na-
tion in free-throw shooting, shot 10-1 1
from the line including a pair of clutch

free throws from Hinkle in the final
minute of the game. Hinkle lead the way

for the Generals with 17 points despite
turning the ball over eight times, and
Miller had 15. Heather McLandlish
scored a game-high 20 points and 16
rebounds for the Hornets in the losing
effort. The Hornets shot a dismal 21

percent from the ﬁeld in the second half
and shot only 26 percent for the game.

The Generals dropped a pair of
games on the road earlier in the week,
losing to Emory & Henry 79-69 on Tues-
day night and Virginia Wesleyan 74-65
on Thursday night.

On Tuesday night at E&H, the Gen-
erals led 60-50 with 11:19 leﬁinthe game
before the Wasps put together a 29-9
run to pick up the win. Miller led the
way for the Generals with 18 points and
shot 8-11 from the field. Three other
Generals finished in double digits:
Hinkle had 16, junior Chrissy Burghardt
had 13, and senior captain Tonia Dean
had 13 points and 9 rebounds. Jaclyn
Dickens led the way for E&H with 16
points as the Wasps improved to 5-8 in
the ODAC and 8-9 overall.

On Thursday the Generals trailed the
Marlins by as many as 10 points but
came back to takea57-56 lead with 6:00
to play. However, the Marlins outscored
the Generals 18-8 down the stretch as
Virginia Wesleyan came away with the
74-65 victory inNorfolk. Freshman Leah
Sawyer had another huge game for the
Generals as she scored a career-high 20
points on 9-13 shooting from the field.
Dean added 14 for the Generals in the
losing effort. The Generals shot a solid
55 percent from the ﬁeld for the game
but were plagued with 30 turnovers.

sports

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

PHOTO BY H01.I.1srI;R H0VEi//PH0'1'0 E[)l'l'()R

   freshman Leah Sawyer gets a few hands in her face as she
attempts a shot in W&L’s 55-48 win over Lynchburg College on Saturday.

Men’s basketball ends tough week with two losses

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
T STAFF Vt/Rnni

If a basketball game ended after the
first half, the Washington & Lee men’s
basketball team would have rode back
from Eastern Mennonite on Saturday
with a convincing upset victory over
the Royals.

The Generals seemed to do no
wrong in the first half and took a 39-32
lead into the locker room behind Se-
nior Kelly Dyer’s 15 first-half points.
Unfortunately for the Generals, there
are two halves in a basketball game
and the second half of Saturday’s

BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. ALL
SPRINGBREAK
locations. Florida, Cancun, etc. from $89,
regster your group or be our Campus Rep.
Inter-campus programs 800-327-6013

SEMESTER ABROAD IN COSTA RICA

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke University are
accepting applications For the Fall 1998 semester tor a field-oriented,
science based semester abroad program in Costa Rica. Students

earn 16 credit hours in tropical ecology, environmental science and policy,
field research methods, and Spanish language and culture.

Credits may be transferred from Duke University.

° hands-on experiential learning ° independent field project:
° cultural immersion 0 extended stays at remote field sites
' home stays - extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Tel.: (919) 684-5774; Email: <nao@acpub.dulte.edu>

http://www.ols.dul(e.edu

Application deadline for 1998 Fall semester is

March 20, ‘I998.

‘OTIS

 

. . . A consortium of universities providing leadership in education. research
and the responsible use of natural resources in the tropics.

game was dominated by EMU.

The Royals scored 55 second-half
points against a Generals defense that
is ranked second in the nation and
went on to down the Generals 87-70 in
Harrisonburg.

In the first half the Generals trailed
the Royals 25-18 midway through the
half before going on a 21-7 run to take
the lead at halftime. Dyer ended the
half with a three-pointer at the buzzer
to give the Generals the seven-point
halﬁime lead. Dyer scored 15 points
in the ﬁrst half and ﬁnished with 26
points to lead all scorers.

EMU used a combination of deadly
three-point shooting and up tempo
play to outscore the Generals 55-31 in
the second half as the Royals im-
proved to 8-5 in the ODAC and 13-6
overall. The loss dropped the Gener-
als below the .500 mark for the first
time since December, as they now
stand at 6-7 in the ODAC and 9-10
overall.

The Royals finished the game with
four players in double digits with se-
nior guard Carey Keyes leading the
way with 21 points. Senior forward
Troy Gerber had 12 points for the Roy-

 

PH0r0 Bl’ HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

THE RIVALRY CONTINUES. W&L’s ice hockey team lost to

VMI last week, bringing W&L’s record against VMI to 0-1-1. Junior
George Urban (left) and VMI captain Matt Wilson pose after the battle.

db:

Happy Valentine’s Day!
I’m rubber. You’re glue.
l’ll always love you!
-pooh!

als and broke the 1,000 point mark for
his career. Scott Hudson added 1 1 for
the Generals and freshman Eric Owsley
had 12. The Royals shot an impres-
sive 60 percent from the field in the
second half and was 21-24 from the
free throw line.

Va. Wesleyan 68, W&L 57

W&L traveled to Norfolk on
Wednesday night to take on Virginia
Wesleyan but couldn’t get past the
Marlins as they dropped an important
ODAC battle 68-57. The Generals
trailed by double digits for most of the

second half but managed to put to-
gether a late run to pull within four
points with under 2:00 to play before
the Marlins scored the final seven
points to pull offthe 1 1-point victory.

Junior forward Jason Nickerson led
a balanced a scoring attack for Virginia
Wesleyan as he ﬁnished with 14 points
and three other Marlins ﬁnished in
double digits. Senior forward Kelly
Dyer led the way for the Generals as
he ﬁnished with 16 including 12 points
in the final 6:00 of the game. Rich
Peterson added 13 for the Generals in
the losing effort.

   

  4

1

K

is

O  ion
rial

PAGE 5’ FEB 9, 1998

A fine line between date and rape

Friday afternoon a man, who claimed to
have been identiﬁed by one of the personal
accounts in last week’s Ring-tum Phi, verbally
abused a staff member.

The man accused the woman in the article of
lying. He stressed that his conviction was not
for rape, but for sexual misconduct. The
Student Faculty Hearing Board voted unani-
mously to convict him and place him on social
probation. When he violated social probation
he was asked to leave the school and no longer
attends Washington and Lee.

The man also intimated that the Phi had
ruined his reputation and had clearly identiﬁed
him in the account.

He said, she said. It’s an old story, one often
repeated on this campus. The line becomes
especially fuzzy when alcohol or drugs are
involved.

_I Nancy Margand, professor of psychology,

said at Tuesday’s Women’s Forum, “How are
they to know if he’s telling the truth and so is
she? He may think she gave consent, she may

It think she refused, but when both are drunk, no

one can be sure.”

The Phi doesn’t want to make that call. We
just know that women across this campus are
having unwanted sexual encounters —— espe-
cially after drinking. In both accounts from last
week’s issue, alcohol was involved.

How can women keep themselves out of a
situation that could result in an unwanted
sexual encounter?

According to the experts, women need to
decide before they go out, before they drink,
what they want to do. -

A woman needs to set her limits, she needs
to know where her boundaries are before she
meets a cute intoxicated boy with a good line
and a nice look.

Women and men on this campus need to
realize that sex is not a casual act and can have
serious consequences.

If either party feels too drunk to consciously
make that decision, there’s only one real
option.

  
  

C6 
 uote of the week:

The guys beat their pledges.
The girls just give their pledges candy to make
them fat so they’ll stop stealing upper-class men.

— Anonymous Vixen

77

@112 Ring-tum lﬂlit

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Business Manager Jill Jamieson
Assistant Business Manager Brian Rogers

Circulation Manager Matthew Craig

Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

According to
St. Hallmark

As I sit here looking at my lovely and free Washing-
ton & Lee school calendar, I can see that this upcoming
Saturday the 14'“ is a very important day. Yes, besides
being the date of the Board of Trustees Winter Meeting,
(contain your excitement), it is also Valentine’s Day.

 

Now many people think that Valentine’s Day, much
like marriage, was created by women to make men spend
money. But nothing could be further from the truth (ex-
cept maybe a White House press conference). Valentine’s
Day was actually founded by a saint -— Saint Hallmark,
later canonized' by the Catholic Church for his important
contributions in the ﬁeld of guilt.

'(note.' this word is not as cool as it sounds. It actu-
ally refers to the process of Sainthood. )

Legend has it that Hallmark was at a saints’ conven-
tion in Antwerp when he hit upon the idea of Valentine’s
Day. Now the saints were by no means the most pleasant
group in the world. Most were unshaven, wore tattered
rags for clothing, smelled like teamsters, and many had
already been beheaded.

“Wow, what a bunch of losers,” young Hallmark
thought to himself as he strolled around the lobby con-
verting the potted plants. There was St. Ethel (patron saint
of Schenectady, N.Y.), St. Eustas the Useless (patron
saint to Pat Sajak), and of course St. Saint, the patron
saint of saints. Most of them simply milled around the
convention trying to sell their own ﬁngers as holy relics.

Hallmark headed out the door and was about to hail a
cab (considered a miracle in medieval times as cabs hadn’t
been invented yet) when he noticed something coming
down from the sky. He looked up, and ’twas a miniature
Rolls Royce and eight tiny reindeer. As soon as it landed,
elves opened the door, and a jolly old fat man stepped
onto the ﬂoor. He had a white beard and a big red tuxedo,
his hair was greased back like a New Jersey Guido. His
fingers had rings and his outﬁt was slick, his name tag
read “Hello, My Name is St. Nick” (sorry).

“W Wow!” stuttered the stunned young Hallmark.
“You’re the patron saint of holidays and crass commer-
cialism! You’re not anything like the other saints. What’s
your secret?”

“I bathe regularly,” answered St. Nick, whose belly
started shaking like a bowl full of jelly as he let out a
hearty laugh.

“No, I want to know your secret to becoming a rich
and powerful saint.”

“Find a human emotion that’s pure and decent and
exploit it for all it’s worth, my boy!”

So, after an unsuccessful attempt to ﬁnd a holiday
based on “I just want to be friends,’ Hallmark began
Valentine’s Day as a celebration of romance. The heart
soon became the symbol of Valentine’s Day, due to the
erroneous medieval notion that love originates  theheart.

Scientists now know that feelings of love originate in
the wallet. And so now every Valentine’s Day, the men
of the world must buy ﬂowers and candy for their sweet-
hearts, and take them out for expensive candlelight din-
ners at expensive restaurants where expensive waiters
recommend the expensive clams in expensive sauce. Men
go along with this in anticipation of later rewards, and
I’m not talking about the frequent ﬂyer miles they’re go-
ing to rack up by using credit cards.

Of course, this year Valentine’s Day falls over Wash-
ington Break, when most of us will probably be back
home. So, ladies, you may not have your W&L
Valentine’s dream date with Chadwick C. Chiselchest
IV after all. However, you may end up getting a call from
Bobby Mudd back home. Sure, you remember good 01’
Bobby, he sat behind you in homeroom. Now he’s got
three kids, twelve communicable diseases and a sweet
job down at Arby’s. He’d like to take you out for a ro-
mantic night in the back seatof his ’74 Chevy Caprice.
Who ever said that romance is dead?

15 Minutes of Shame

 
  
  

Press Secretary Mike McCurry’s worst nightmare: A Chinese
multi-millionaire real—estate mogul with a penchant for Big Macs and oral sex.

F'm_§T‘ WE'LL I-lA\f’E
ccprpgﬁt THEN WE LL-
55-r To rue 6°00
S’I’uFF[

Swensen put
out by policy

This tenn, one of my four classes is every student’s
dream an independent study. There are no lectures to sit
through, no set time to work, and most important, the free-
dom to choose what you want to study. The only class
requirement (besides a lengthy paper; well, nothing’s per-
fect) is that I meet with my professor once a week or so to
update him on my progress and ask him any questions
about or explain any problems with my research.

;F}rorn a Bar Stool

5En'c Swensen ’98

   

So, one day last week after lunch, I went up to his of-

. ﬁ¢¢.t0 see if he had f<.>.11I..1..d...S0.me ethics. codes .1 r1.ee.sic:.d for -

my research. I knocked on his door. No answer. His door
was locked. Only then did I notice the sign hanging from
his door. It read:

President Elrod ’s recent edict prohibiting smoking in
this oﬂice has forced me to work elsewhere as much as
possible. I will, of course, remain readily available, espe-
cially to all students. This office will remain open.‘ Ap-
pointments may be made through Mrs. Murchison  I
regret this minor change as much as I lament the policy
that forced it.

Louis W. Hodges

On a selﬁsh level, of course, this affects me person-
ally, since it will make it somewhat more difﬁcult for me
to see Professor Hodges. I’ve talked with him in his office
four or ﬁve times this term, and only once have I made an
appointment. Unfortunately, as much as I’m sure Profes-
sor Hodges will try to remain accessible, the fact is that
nothing is as accessible as an on-campus ofﬁce.

More important than my inconvenience, however, is
the policy that leads a faculty member to make this kind

 

of decision. I realize that President Elrod was only look-
ing out for the _general health and well-being of the W&L
community when he banned smoking from every build-
ing on campus except the smoking lounges in the library.
I’m not going to debate the dangers of secondhand smoke.
I hate breathing in smoke as much as anyone.

The real problem with this policy is that it codiﬁes
something that we as a community should be able to handle
with common courtesy and respect. Banning smoking from
public places is one (entirely understandable) thing. But
faculty ofﬁces are essentially private places where others
stop to visit.

When a faculty member is alone in his ofﬁce with the
door closed, why shouldn’t he be able to smoke? I don’t
understand how that could bother anyone. If a student or
someone else stops by, all that faculty member has to do is
have the courtesy to stop smoking if it bothers his visitor.

One of the things frequently touted by W&L is how eas-
ily reachable professors are for students. Generally speak-

..-iv? '

C"

E
I
3
i.

‘c
L

ing, I’ve found that to be true. The University should be 

doing everything it can to make professors easier to see, not
tougher, especially when another solution is available.

Letters are not enough during controversy 

Letters to the editor will not resolve the controversy
over Washington and Lee’s new smoking policy.

Like the other letters that preceded it, Patrick
Bradshaw’s letter in the Feb. 4 Trident conveys the
dissatisfaction some feel for the smoking policy. Those

    

.., ed Brick Row
{_ David Balslg 99

letters, however, do not do as much to resolve the
controversy as would a public meeting between the
proponents of each side of the issue.

In any campus debate or crisis, letters to the editor
are helpful in several ways. First, they make it known
publicly that people are upset and that current policies
are not unanimously agreed upon. Second, they
delineate various aspects of an issue. Third, they

I   What is your favoritc Valc1jLi1'ic’:;-2

“My dad used to send me ﬂowers from
a ‘secret admirer.’ It was really sweet.”

— Ashley Penkava ’O0

 

“The guy I was dating showed up on my
doorstep with the cliche tedddy bear and
longstem red rose.”

establish representatives for opposing sides of an issue.

In the case of the smoking policy controversy, professor
Louis Hodges’ letter in the Jan. 19 Phi and Patrick
McCormack’s article in the Jan. 26 Phi accomplish those
tasks. They are sincere and direct. They move the controversy
towards its resolution.

In contrast, sarcastic, insulting letters that deal indirectly
with a topic accomplish little. They communicate the authors’
dissatisfaction but do nothing to solve the problems. Such
letters are often little more than an excuse to take pot shots at
others from the safety of newspaper print. It’s like telling
someone you don’t like them without giving them the
opportunity to tell you the same thing.

Bradshaw’s letter is an example of this. If he has a
personal problem with President Elrod, he should
personally talk to President Elrod in a manner suitable for
addressing the president of a university.

But sincere letters, while helpful, are not enough to

boatdock.”
~— Shay Ansley ’00 I

 

“I made my girlfriend a romantic din-
ner and we had a picnic on her

—— Derek Dodson ’01

resolve a controversy. One-way communication between
opposing parties does not allow the debate and eventual
compromise needed to resolve a disagreement.

So, in order to end the controversy over the smoking
policy, we need representatives of both sides of the issue
to meet with the intention of establishing a reasonable
compromise. I suggest that Hodges and President Elrod
hold a public debate, using Hodges letter to the editor to
establish the issues which would be discussed. The debate
should include suggestions for alternatives to the no
smoking policy.

The debate should be held in public because the smoking
policy aﬂ°ects more than just professors who smoke. Students,
who depend on professors to be their advisers and for help
with their classes, need to know that they can count on their
professors to be around when they need them.

More letters to editors will not help, but a meeting in
Northen Auditorium will.

I3:-13' T1’l.Cfll(i)l‘\\,_”.?)

  

“I got a rose from a random person in
class once. It was sweet.”

— Carly Blakelock ‘O1

.-

.".
‘ ~

co-
4~

-v

'.-'e'o':'. ‘o'a-To .-re-'01‘; ‘c 1'0‘: ..::e:o.c .«..

 

 

.v

v ~« .9 vs «-x-».v.«-1 v:.vv.w,'v.- .~

«~2:¢-p -

QV'9.O

«
4

9329: . . ‘ .~a.v:0.»:.ev.9.i.9.¢.4:_4.v.v.w.v.!_-:.v.v

 

 

PAGE 6

ahit of umor,

BY ERICA PRossER

 

_ STAFF Wrzrrnz
So, how about that Washington and Lee debate team?
What debate team? you ask.

The one that’s one of the best-kept secrets in the
school’s history.

The team began in the 19505. When Professor Halford
Ryan, who teaches public speaking, came to W&L in 1970,
he took over as coach and has run the show ever since.

“I really wish that more people knew how much fun de-
bate is,” said freshman Mary Payne, a team member. She
says the experience is incredible, though the team is small.

“There are four, ﬁve or six members on the team at a
time,” Ryan said. “This year’s team has been really suc-
cessful.” Ryan said that each team member has brought
home an award this season. How could such a strong
W&L program fall through the publicity cracks?

The team is mostly unknown because it is not open to
the general student population. Debating rules call for
the Lincoln-Douglas debate style, so students must take
Public Speaking 203 to learn how it’s done.

‘‘It’ s a one—on—one policy debating style,” Ryan said. “The
afﬁmiative [side of the issue] must show the need, the plan,

 

‘£9

By Alex Christensen

Phi Movie Critic
Lots of movies are good. Quite a few are great. Mostly my
ratings for movies come to me after some consideration after
the movie is over, or even after I have seen the movie two or
three times. Then there are the movies you begin to feel after
the first ﬁve minutes are going to be great. Indi-
vidual moments are great. You find yourself pulled
in immediately. Sometimes the feeling turns out to
be unjustified: in the case of “Good Will Hunting,”
not only is the whole ﬁlm fun and exciting to watch,
but you get so totally emotionally involved by the
end, you want to spend even more time with the
characters. It’s a great escape. You don’t want it to
end. Only “Jackie Brown” felt similar this year.
“Good Will Hunting” is the story of Will Hunt-
ing (Matt Damon), a janitor at MIT who sneaks
around solving physics brain-teasers when he’s not
starting ﬁghts or cutting faux intellectuals down
to size. Despite not really being a very intrinsi-
cally likeable character, something about Will and
his friends (Ben and Casey Afﬂeck, Cole Hauser)
pulls you in. There’s something more going on
than a bunch of useless smart-aleck tough guys
making trouble. Something even more than the
usual Hollywood cliché of“the genius.”
What it is, fmally, is family. These guys with nothing to
hang on to at least have each other. That’s the heart of the story.
The complications set in when Will makes his mathemati-
cal genius known. By working out a difficult problem set up
by the faculty as a test for the most talented students, Will
brings himself to the attention of professor and Gerald Lambeau

Colonnade Club

\/P~L6NTwtE’é- PM 4409 .

MvMM~4,MoMM~1! Loolé MALL M‘/
vkuemwrset eveemue caves ME‘,

  

    
 
     

ANYONE Ex-BE.
909%; 5-Ave

ﬂltls

‘L.A. Story.”

   

6L0
\lAlr-urn r.\r-( I

and the solvency [proof that the plan will work].” The policy to
be debated changes every year, and students are responsible
for research and planning that goes into their strategies.
Colleges and universities across the country host tour-
naments for competing schools, and the tournament struc-
ture is complicated. Students compete in four to six pre-
liminary rounds upon arrival. For each round, the student
has one judge and two scores: one made up of speaker
point totals, and one that names the student winner or
loser of the debate. Based on the preliminary win-lose
scores, the student may advance to the elimination rounds.
“The student usually needs a 4-2 win record [for their
rounds] to break into elimination rounds,” Ryan said. “The
downside is that there’s no distinction between varsity,
junior varsity, and novice experience levels in the rounds.”
Elimination rounds progress through quarter ﬁnals,
semiﬁnals and ﬁnals. Only one school wins, but team
awards go to all schools that make elimination rounds.
The elimination rounds feature three judges, who are
coaches from other competing teams.
The fun doesn’t end here. Team members who make elimina-
tion rounds in early tournaments qualify for the national
tournament, the National Forensic Association (NFA) Na-

Mrs r

(Stellan Skarsgard). Lambeau gets him a deal to avoid jail
on an assault charge if he agrees to spend time develop-
ing his mathematical ability with Lambeau and to see a
therapist to help him deal with his aggression.

Also complicating things is his burgeoning relationship
with Skylar (Minnie Driver), a charming and beautiful British

 

Miramax Pictures

Harvard student. All of the threads come together when Will
enters therapy with Sean Maguire (Robin Williams), a psy-
chology professor at a local community college, who was
Lambeau’s college roommate. Maguire is dealing with his
own emotional issues, primarily the death of his wife. Will
goes straight for that pain in an effort to keep himself at a

last 

Debate tearn’s silent sueeess

 
    
 

ITLDULD We t39ra~J- IPA!-60
ﬂzétﬂ WELL F0? M0 011‘
/~ '\ GlZw°<V9l'~’0l‘.’l’HE9l&929T
<z3>[<EI>l bﬁﬁf-lN'TH‘59t~1'l'lFE-6l4°\99
*‘ ' eez\rrMe A 6?¢Nknow,9vr
Wow ‘T 1’l’<lNl4 myoma
5. FWNI7 NF Mbeaer tr
6 WP62N‘T LIKE \‘D QENT
ONE 172 Mtwaue AND
TI?-190172 ??€rEND
14%? I N3l'UALL\1 trkv
A one... Lute icomiwew
ooudb LMTYEM1.

    
    
 
 
 
   
   

  
 
   
  
     

 

 

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

tionals, in April. Ryan said that quali-
ﬁcation for nationals is usually the
main goal of the competition season.

Five students qualiﬁed for Nation-
als this year. The team consists of
Lance Clack, Martin Milner, Mary
Payne, Kathleen Curameng, and
Joyce Lee, and all managed to make it
at least as far as the quarter ﬁnals in a
tournament. So far this year, the team
has competed in four tournaments.

The lack of publicity doesn’t
bother Ryan.

“I couldn’t handle lots of people
being on the team,” he says, adding
that the team works as well as it does
for this school because of its small
size. The team turnover is reasonable, too; some people
quit the team when the class ends, but others stay on the
team for years after the term has ended. These are the
participants who get good at debating.

“It’s a skill,” Ryan said. “The longer you’re in it, the
better you get.”

Grind W27] Hmimg

e marir

distance from his own pain, but Maguire is not so damaged
that he has forgotten how to help people.

Tl1ere’s little doubt at this point that Matt Damon will be
nominated for Best Actor, Williams for Best Supporting Ac-
tor, and “Good Will Hunting” for Best Picture. It’s always
satisfying when popular support and genuine storytelling
grace come together in such a way that both build
upon each other. Not like how “Titanic” is being
swept along to Oscar glory, or how obscure act-
ing turns sometimes make it onto the lists of the
best of the year. Public attention and critical ac-
claim have converged memorably around this ﬁlm.

Damon and Williams are particularly good. There
are a few high—octane moments when you would
expect even Keanu Reeves could have pulled off
the emotional intensity needed, but most of their
performances are in little moments when they sim-
ply do little things the audience could not have an-
ticipated. Also memorable are Minnie Driver as Will
Hunting’s love interest and Ben Aﬁleck (“Chasing
Amy”) as Chuckie, Will’s best friend, who supports
him more than Will had any right to expect.

Damon and Afﬂeck also wrote the screenplay,
a remarkably well balanced and nuanced piece of
work. They won the Golden Globe for Best Screen-
play and seem poised to repeat at the Oscars.

Director Gus Van Sant (“My Own Private Idaho,” “To Die
For”) translates the screenplay with aplomb. The images
live up to their potential. Views of Boston, a bafﬂing love
scene between Damon and Driver are particularly striking,
as well as the way he visually suggests the relationship
between Will’s genius and his troubled background.

vALeNrwE% wt -14 01 4

I1’ WAC; 6» eweer ae
DAV ID 173 wt Ma.
maze 6l+vooL Mela-
T00 am» He em" 3,
HVNW4 E9???-E.
W<9l49'r?2ALL Wamce

Wt? /’<rErHeM M.
OH WELL’ H2614
cAw\?i-ac, Foe

     
  
    
  
  
   

  

THE W&L Debate Team I unsung heroes: Mary Payne, Kathleen Curameng,
Joyce Lee, Lance Clack, and Martin Milner. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO E01701:

   

Ryan said that research experience and adversarial speak-
ing skills gained from debating come in handy for the future.
“Law schools look favorably on debaters,” he said.

Those who participate never walk away empty-handed
from the experience. ~

“It is a good way to contribute to W&L and have ﬁrn at
the same time,” said sophomore team member Lance Clack.
“I wish we had three or four more people on the team, but
the ﬁve we have now are all dedicated and skilled.”

Payne was even more enthusiastic about her experience.

“This was an activity that I seriously wanted to continue
in college,” she said. She said that the friendships she has
made, both with members of the W&L team and with mem-
bers of other teams, will last a lifetime. She also said that
the hard work is worth it for the experience of debating.

“[W&L] debate is a wonderful activity that more people
should know about,”said Payne.

SEVEN

MONDAY 335 4:30 p.m. Lecture: “Chartres
Cathedral and the Medieval Mind,” John
Kevem, Northen Auditorium. 51¢ 7:00 p.m.
U.S. Air Force Heritage of America Band,
Lenfest Center. ’~'>I¢ 7:30 p.m. Men’s basket-
ball vs. Randolph-Macon at the Warner Cen-
ter. 131‘? 8 p.m. Outing Club presents Kayak
Roll Class, Doremus Pool. 23¢ TUl$DAY
*1’? 6-10 p.m. Ballroom dancing lessons ev-
ery hour on the hour, in Fairfax Lounge. $40
for six hour—long private lessons. Practice for
F.D.! *1‘? 6:30 p.m. Women’s swimming vs.
Hollins in Warner Center. ii‘? 8 p.m. Theater
Series: “Crimes of the Heart” in Lenfest’s
Johnson Theatre. >145 WEDNESDAY #15? 6-
10 p.m. Private ballroom dancing lessons ev-
ery hour in Fairfax. 393? 7 :00 p.m. Outing Club
Meeting for February Break Trip 1% 7:30
p.m. CONTACT presents Eugene Genovese
in Lenfest’s Keller Theatre #1‘? DJ Party at Phi
Delt.  THURSDAY 11¢ 7:00 p.m.
Women’s basketball vs. Hollins in Warner
Center. >1‘: MSA presents Kevin Powell of
MTV’s “Real World.” 51¢ 8:00 p.m. “A Sci-
ence Center Serenade,” featuring the Univer-
sity Chorus and the University Chamber Sing-
ers, Science Center. $5 FRIDAY $5 Wash-
ington Holiday: conveniently begins after
classes! Have a great break! 1%‘-

By Hollister Hovey

VALENTINE’? UM ~l‘l ab

H64 W«1%"\—L¢r'9
ewes! I'LL Na/ee-
Lér qou A/><u_ ME
Yovtt evteeiavv.
I'LL Nﬁvéﬂ WWI?
MDNB1 0N WW, I'LL
TELL EVQIONE WV
600‘? ‘lav We IN 9917,
l ILEALM t7aN'T1/114%

 
    
    
  
 

  

   
  
 

   
  
   

 

--.~.........x-uhﬂvuauaa-mwzmv - xo'2L..... I '

I

E

Q

 
 

 

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 15

“A. “>".=-TS .3 . 1?

. ‘="i.<J:‘iN LIBHAPIY
.-\'cSr1ll\,o’lOi\l  LEE. UNIVERSIT‘
‘ CXINGTON, VA 24450

HAR0419$

“lfr me we 3* freer./”
NCY DRESS BALL
/I///I/1/21,4‘ ﬁnal? F/a//pa/tr, my]; and Jazz

U112 iltiug-tum lﬁlti

1998
4/1 /l@/U

 

Monday
MARCH 2, 1998

Alcohol abuse

dominates

State of W&L
open forum

BY Wm HARDIE

NEWS EDITOR

Alcohol abuse on campus dominated President John
Elrod’s informal “State of the University” open forum in Gaines
gatehouse Tuesday evening.

Elrod said that he thought the IFC “bring your own bottle”
policy was a good first step, but that further action needs to be
taken. “Hazing and alcohol abuse are  I should say, have
been  a serious threat to the integrity of the institution and
the well—being of its students.”

Elrod’s comments were led by questions from the 40 or so
students who attended, and covered a range of issues, includ-
ing the master plan, the class registration system, University
policy on sexual orientation discrimination, and concerns over
the increasing size of the student body. But questions about
alcohol just kept coming, usually prefaced by, ‘‘I’m sorry to
ﬂog a dead horse, but ....”

One student asked Elrod’s opinion of the decision by five
national fraternities to ban alcohol from their houses.

“I think this is a bad move,” Elrod said. He suspects it was
driven by fear of potential litigation by fraternity members in-
jured under the inﬂuence ofalcohol.

“There is no way they can enforce dry houses,” he said.
“Alcohol is a part of human life and has been for a very long
time. We need to teach freshmen to drink responsibly. If you
ban alcohol from houses, students will drink out in the county
like there’s no tomorrow.”

“Drinking in fraternity “houses isfme,” Elrod said. “But
students should remain conscious and in control and be able
to go to bed under their own steam.”

“The idea is not abstinence. The right idea is responsible
consumption of alcohol. Students shouldn’t drink responsi-
bly because ofthe law, they should drink responsibly because
it is the right and healthy thing to do.”

Another student pushed Elrod further to explain spe-
cifically how he plans to persuade students not to misuse
alcohol.

“The solution is incredibly simple,” Elrod said. “It is for the
people who are the leaders—the older people-to tell the younger
people, ‘don’t do it.’”

The dead horse had to be flogged one last time for Elrod to
give details of what he intends to do about alcohol abuse, but
still he did not say how or when his plan might be implemented.

“We have to go back to square one,” Elrod said. He said that
faculty, the administration and students must agree on a set of
very specific guidelines for responsible behavior. The student
body would have to agree to abide by those guidelines, and
would be frequently reminded of them.

There would follow an aggressive education campaign to
justify and explain the guidelines, and procedures would be
put in place to deal with individuals and groups who ﬂout
them. Individual offenders would first be given counseling for
alcohol abuse. If that failed, they would be disciplined and, if
necessary, suspended.

The disciplinary process would be the responsibility ofthe
students. “We can’t say no to drinking,” Elrod said. “We’re
talking about the student mind set here, an alcohol culture. It
is the students who make up that culture. You can’t change it
as outsiders.”

“We can’t do this in a few days, weeks or months. It will
probably take a whole generation of students to implement.”

Steering committee members put the finishing

Fancy Dress Ball Friday night. Construction is tak-

FLAPPER MANEQUINS LOOK ON 

ing place in the Pavilion, and the entire set, including a
touches to the elaborate decorations for the 1998 working fountain, will be moved to the Warner Center
on Wednesday.

Gaines Thanksgiving break
burglary suspects tried

BY ERIN MORONEY AND Wm HARDIE
j'——'—m STAFF \VRIIER/NEWS EDITOR

The Commonwealth’ s Attomey’s evidence, or lack
of it, determined the fate of the two Rockbridge County
teens charged with the Thanksgiving Gaines break-
ins. At a preliminary hearing Feb. 17, one was told he
would stand a full trial next month; the other was let
off with community service.

Jason Alestock, 19, of Lexington, and Thomas
Allman, 19, of Raphine, were charged with breaking
into Gaines Hall on Nov. 25. Judge Joseph Hess de-
cided that the evidence against Alestock was suffi-
cient to send his case to a bench trial March 4. Ac-
cording to his attorney, Ross Haine, Alestock will plead
not guilty to grand larceny.

But Al1man’s attorney, Bob Armstrong, persuaded
Hess that the evidence against Allman was too weak
to justify taking his case any further. Allman’s plea
was reduced to trespassing and he was ordered to
complete ten hours’community service.

Armstrong argued that the Commonwealth could
prove only that Allman was in the vicinity of Gaines
on Nov. 25. “An investigation concluded that he
[Allman] wasn’t actually in the Gaines building, he
was not in possession of any stolen property and he
wasn’t acting in concert with anyone else,” said
Annstrong.

According to Lexington Police Officer Fred Smith,
a man entered sophomore Courtney Yevich’s Gaines
apartment during the Thanksgiving break, and stole
her Toshiba laptop computer, a videocassette of Ju-
rassic Park, and a Nikon camera. Smith said that the
same day a man also entered sophomore Lance Clack’s
room. Clack’s roommate, Steve Straub, became suspi-
cious when a man walked in and asked where “John’s
room” was. He and several other Gaines residents who
had seen strangers behaving suspiciously called cam-
pus security, who called the police.

Security officers Scott Rowe and Tony Prince
caught local Eugene Jordan, 17, leaving Gaines,
then a minute later saw another man walking out of
the building, carrying the items taken from Yevich’s
room. Prince chased the man across the road to
the Lenfest center, where he droppedthe stolen

items and managed to escape. The police arrived and
arrested Jordan, who implicated three other men in the
break-in. Prince later identified Alestock as the man who
he had chased; Clack also identified Alstock, from a
photo line-up.

Just eight days before the Gaines incidents, Alestock
was charged with attempting to steal two locks, doors and
windowpanes belonging from the Fitzgerald Lumber Com-
pany in Buena Vista.

Alestock was found guilty and was sentenced to 60 days
in jail. Haine said that the punishment was harsh for that
crime, which is a misdemeanor. Alestock’s appeal against
that conviction will be heard on March 25.

Manning to
leave W&L for

headmaster
position in
England

BY WILL HARDIE NW5 EDUOR

In three months’ time Dean of the Freshman Program
Dennis G. Manning will be learning a whole new set of
freshman names, but this year it will 4,000 miles away.

Manning will leave Washington and Lee at the end of
the academic year. He has accepted the position of head-
master at a private school in England.

“He’s made an incalculably great contribution here and
we’re going to miss him,” said President John Elrod.

“I have agonized over the decision,” said Manning. “I
have loved it here and it’s going to be very difficult to leave.”

The University will conduct a nationwide search for a
replacement, who they hope will take over in time to over-
see next year’s freshman class.

Manning was offered what he called a “once-in—a-
lifetime opportunity,” to be headmaster of the TASIS
England school,just outside London. “It’s an idyllic set-
ting, a really magniﬁcent campus,” he said.

What will Manning miss most about W&L? ‘‘It’s the
people. I feel like I’ve been part of a family. I’ve tried to get
to know on an individual basis as many students and as
many people as I can from the W&L family and I will al-
ways treasure those relationships.”

“I will also miss the sense of civility among our stu-
dents. At least in daylight,” said Manning. “I will miss
least going to bed every Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
night worrying about students.”

Manning is renowned for his ability to remember the
names of almost all the students at W&L. “I have only met
the guy once, and he knew my name,” sophomore Jessica
Helm said. “It was really scary.”

Dean of Students David Howison will chair the commit-
tee that will search for Manning’s replacement. The posi-
tion of Dean of the Freshman Program will be advertised in
next week’s Chronicle of Higher Education.

“I’m delighted for Dennis and his family,” said Howison.
“On the other hand, it’s sad to lose an invaluable member
of the Washington and Lee Community.”

“This has to be one of the most interesting and ap-
pealing opportunities in American higher education,”
Manning said. “I am guessing there will be hundreds of
applicants. I think they will have no trouble finding some-
one superior to me.”

Howison said that Manning’s successor might not be
able to start work before August. If so, Howison would
have to work with Manning before his departure and then
with the successor, to ease the transition. “We have to

move efficiently but not rush this because we want to find

just the right person,” he said.

Manning’s newjob will start on July 1. “The month of
June for me is going to be given over to moving my entire
family, selling two cars and a house and somehow picking
up lock, stock and barrel and moving 4,000 miles away. It’ s a
daunting, daunting prospect,” he said.

“I’m so sad; he’s my favorite person,” said freshman
Sarah Riggs. “I think it’s a great opportunity for him, but
we’ll miss him round here.”

When buying a used car
means treading a minefield

BY GINGER PH1u.rPs STAFF W

Over February break, senior Andrew Ruppar went in
search of a used car. On his way back to school, he discov-
ered how scary the wrong decision can be.

Ruppar didn’t have much time to make a decision; his
previous car was irreparable after he slid off a 20-foot cliff
on Jan. 27. He also had to find a car for less than $5,000.
Ruppar bought a 1981 Jeep Wagoneer, which required a
few minor repairs.

On the way back to school, his car completely shut down,
forcing him to coast to the shoulder of the highway. Smoke
filtered into the inside of the _car, and oil leaked from the
engine. Not long after calling 9] l, Ruppar watched the en-
tire front ofhis car burst into flames.

Though it took two ﬁre-trucks to douse the ﬂames, Ruppar
still believes that buying a used car can be a wise decision.

“It’sjust one ofthose things,” he said. “Somehow the
oil or fuel hose must have cracked during the drive back,
and nothing was wrong when I had it checked. Ifyou need
a car and one that is cheap, a used car isthe answer.”

“People usually buy used cars because they want all
ofthe accessories that they could not, or don’t want to pay
for on a new car,” Mike Parker, owner of MP Chrysler Ply-
mouth Dodge in Lexington, said. However, he says that a

used car must be thoroughly checked out before any pur-
chase is made. He recommends taking the car to a trusted
mechanic. “All new cars get warranties, and there is a
reason‘ for that. Eventually the car will break. You just want
to make sure that the chances of that happening right after
your purchase are low,” Parker said.

The following are a few simple checks to keep in mind.
Listen to the engine and check for unusual noises. Look
for rust, mismatching paint and dents. Examine the tires for
uneven wear, which could indicate bad alignment or sus-
pension problems. Check the shock absorbers by leaning
hard on the comer of the car and suddenly releasing. If the
car does not continue to rock up and down, then the shocks
are fine. Check windows and doors for a close fit, and
carefully examine the car’s interior. Also beware of odom-
eter tampering, especially if the car appears to have had a
lot of wear and tear butthe mileage is unusually low.

As with any car purchase, whether it is new or used,
safety is a big concern. Small cars account for nearly twice
as many fatal accidents as large cars.

“I chose my car because it was bigger than my previous
car, which makes it safer,” Ruppar said. However, cars with
higher centers of gravity, like sport utility vehicles, are
more likely it is to roll over in an accident.

'pion
  rial

PAGE  0 MAR. 2, 1998

Keep course
registration off
the computers

It seems as though everyone has gone crazy for comput-
ers. The Internet is ﬂooded with web pages authored by
hordes of ’net enthusiasts. The frenzy over Microsoft has
turned Bill Gates, the least likely of heroes, into a celebrity.
And even my grandmother sends e-mail.

  David Balsley 99

With this excitement has come a drive to adapt more and
more tasks to computers. They now perform jobs that would
have seemed foreign to them just a few years ago. They have
replaced cashiers at supermarkets that offer self-checkout
lines. They help your younger brothers and sisters research
science reports. In the future, computers will assume even
more responsibilities.

The excitement for computers seems to have caught on at
the Registrar’s Ofﬁce. A new, friendlier, more functional
online course listing accompanied last week’s spring term
registration. I received my course listing for this semester
via e-mail. The Registrar’s Office seems to be moving to-
wards an increased use of computers, possibly culminating
in a system which would allow on-line course registration.

Computers are useful. It is possible, however, to push
them too far, to try to use them to perform a variety of tasks
that is too wide, so that they become a hindrance, not a help.

Consider the possibility of publishing books via the web
or compact discs. A book has several advantages over its
electronic counterpart: it’s more portable than a computer,
easier to use, and more efﬁcient than any electronic browser.
A book is a good example of something that can be imple-
mented on a computer, but whose implementation is less
helpful than the tangible object.

The same may be true of the Registrar’s Ofﬁce. Incorpo-
rating computers and online offerings into the office’s ser-
vices may make these services less helpful than they would
be without computers.

Online registration provides another example. It may be
easier to get to the Registrar’s Office than to find an avail-
able computer in a public lab. Filling in a registration form
may be easier than selecting options from web pages. Ask-
ing a secretary to sign a registration sheet may be easier than
manipulating a program to get permission for a course.

The current means of registering for courses also offers
more security than online registration. When you sign up for
courses now, you have a written record of which courses
you will take next semester — a sort of guarantee that you
have what you need.

Online registration, however, provides more room for
error. Trusting your course registration to a series of wires
and switches increases the chances that something will go
wrong, that somewhere in the network your classes will get
lost. The consequences of such a loss could mean the differ-
ence between graduating on time and staying for a fifth year.

Like an electronic book, a Virtual Registrar’s Office could
be less useful than the genuine article.

As the Registrar’s Ofﬁce progresses towards increased
use of computers, I hope that they will be careful to offer
more electronic services only if those services represent an
improvement over how the office currently works. Com-
puters can be useful, but pushing them too far could make
future course registrations a virtual hell.

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬁlii

Courtney Miller

1.

joked Brick Row

   

5'”

Executive Editors

Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
Heather McDonald
w&ltfe Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views" do not
reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
     

A new event for the Winter Olympics

Announcer 1: Good evening, and welcome back
to Nagano for our continuing coverage ofthe 1998
Nielsen Ratings. Uh, I mean the Winter Olympics.

Announcer 2: Tonight we’ve got an interesting
event. This event is as stepped in Greek history as
the Olympic games themselves, only this event
appeals to a different kind of Greek. Yes, it’s the
always controversial men’s freestyle chug.

 

Announcer 1 : First up is Dan Irongut of the United
States. Now Dan is a seasoned drinker who spent six
years in a fraternity before turning pro. This is Dan’s
first non-special Olympics. Dan will be competing in
the freestyle chug event — that means that the judges
are not only looking at time, but they’ll be focusing
on the artistic aspects of his program as well as sheer
drinking ability. But first, a cheesy video over-senti-
mentally portraying Dan as a true American hero.
<cue corny music>

Narrator.‘ Dan Irongut is a true American hero.
When he 's not training for the Olympics. he ’s here,
at the Community Resource Center in Tempe, Ari-

Letters to the
Ring-tum P121’

Connotation of headline disputed

To the editors:

Having read your front-page report about me in
yesterday’s paper, I now know what it is like to have
journalism done to me.

Your headline, “Hodges quits office,” like your first
paragraph, “he is quitting his campus office,” and
“He will work from home from now on,” are wrong.
I am not moving out of my office. As your article
correctly stated, despite the sensational headline, the
office will remain open.

Like almost all of our faculty, I have long worked
both at home and on campus. What I am now doing,
because the President has banned smoking in my of-
fice, is to shift everything I reasonably can to my of-
fice at home. I shall do more of my research, writing,
and grading in the home office — whatever I can do
more efficiently there.

The general tenor of your story makes me appear
to be deserting students and shirking my professional
duty to be accessible. Neither is true, of course. I can
be reached by phone, by e-mail, and through Mrs.
Murchison, whose hours are 8:00 — 12:00.

As I stated in the Wednesday conference with Dr.
Artwick’s class and a few reporters, one among the
many excellent teaching practices at Washington and
Lee is that faculty are available to students in their
offices. For 38 years I have viewed that practice as a
“tradition,” as President Elrod called it, but as more
than tradition: it is a duty and obligation of all re-
sponsible teachers. I shall continue to meet that obli-
gation, which I have welcomed ‘over many years.

Sincerely,
Louis W. Hodges

Wheeler commends rape article

To the editors:

I’d like to thank Jason Zacher, Hollister Hovey,
Tarah Grant, the Ring-tum Phi, and, most of all, the
women who gave such frank and moving testimony
in the special report of February 2nd, “Campus Rape.”
Sexual assault has cause persistent academic and per-
sonal problems for many women I have taught and
known, here and elsewhere; victims too often suffer
in humiliated silence, cut off from the help they need
and support they deserve. We need to change the cam-
pus culture which tolerates rape, and pieces such as
this one are an encouraging start.

Sincerely,
Lesley Wheeler
Asst. Professor of English

Morning-after pill debated

To the Editors:

In your Jan. 26, 1998 issue of the Ring-tum Phi, I
was appalled to read the article “The Moming-After
Pill.” This article promotes chemical altering as a
healthy, less embarrassing response to pregnancy. The
moming-after pill is a form of abortion. Pregnancy is
the natural biological response to sexual intercourse
and results in a new life.

Asjoumalists, are you willing to provide informa-
tion on alternatives through your publication? There
are many resources for women for support and care
through an unanticipated pregnancy. Being a student
and being pregnant does not mean the end of pursu-
ing an education. To end a life through an abortion
procedure is truly not a choice, but an act of hopeless-
ness or of panic.

Sincerely,
Madge L.K. Head

Moming-after pill is “chemical warfare”

Dear President Elrod,

It is with great sadness that I find it necessary to
write you this letter, but I have no other alternative
given the fact that the University continues to publi-
cize and promote the use of abortafacients by the stu-
dent body. I refer of course to the article on “The
Moming-After Pill” in the Jan. 26, 1998 issue of the
Ring-tum Phi.

The article contains several outright lies, the first
sentence being the most egregious. It says, “The best
way to prevent unwanted pregnancy is the consistent

zona, reading books to underprivileged rodents.

Dan.‘ I do it for the animals, I do it for the future,
but I mostly do it as part of my plea bargain. It counts
as community service.

Announcer 1: Boy, that Dan is sure a true Ameri-
can hero. And now, Dan is stepping up to the keg.
There’s the starter pistol  and he’s ofﬂ He’s tossed
away his cup and is drinking straight from the tap! A
bold choice.

Announcer 2: Very bold. Reminiscent of Johnson
in ’88. And he’s still drinking  drinking  ooh,
he has to stop for a second to breathe. That’s going to
cost him.

Announcer 1: But he’s back! Dan is quite a com-
petitor. You know, he’s trained hard to get here. He’s
done a strict physical regiment of 100 push-ups, 200
sit-ups, and 20 shots of Everclear every day for the
past month.

Announcer 2: That stuff cleans you out faster than
a divorce. Dan has truly ingested an epic amount of
alcohol tonight. He’s going for the silver, he’s going
for the gold! No, wait, he’s going for the porcelain.

Announcer 1: Now the judges will be looking at
his form in this puke. His neck is arched, his shoul-
ders are relaxed, and he seems to getting it all inside
the bowl. First-rate puking. And now  oh my God,
he’s going back to the keg! What a competitor!

Announcer 2: Eye ofthe tiger, heart of a champion,
liver of a Rolling Stone.

Announcer 1: Dan is back up and  oh dear, he
appears to have gone blind! He’s groping around like
Bill Clinton in a “Hooters.” He’s tripped over the keg.
The flip — the roll — the triple lutz — ﬂawlessly ex-
ecuted! The crowd is going wild as Dan falls on his
face. What a showman!

Announcer 2: I haven’t seen anyone this out of it
since we covered snowboarding. And  yes! His heart
has stopped. That signals the end of his routine.

Announcer 1: Scores are rolling in. He got a 4.7
from the Irish judge, a 5.8 from the German judge, a
5.2 from the Anheiser Busch judge, and a 4.6 on the
breathalyzer.

Announcer 2: The scores are high, and so is he. Ex-
cellent round.

Announcer 1: Yes, he will definitely be in contention
for a medal, if not a stomach pump. Well next up is Sergei
Smirnoff of one of those little hard—to-pronounce coun-
tries that used to be part of the Soviet Union.

Announcer 2: Sergei is a very tough competitor. He’s
been drinking vodka professionally for 27 years.

Announcer l: Quite a feat for this plucky plucky 26-
year-old. Sergei trained under Boris Yeltsin himself.
First 1et’s cut away for the true spirit of the Olympic
— commercials. '

15 minutes of §hame

me '?"‘uwm mes uses}

 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

/lvn’/184,5! 9

 
  
  
  
  
 

use of a contraceptive before sex ...” The last time I checked,
abstinence was 100 percent effective at preventing un-
wanted pregnancies while the most effective contraceptive
/ abortafacient was only about 97 percent effective.
Another falsehood that is present throughout the ar-
ticle is the indentification of this treatment as a contra-
ceptive rather than as an abortafacient. I know that Dr.
Horton and others will continue to play word games in
an attempt to cover up the reality of what is going on.
They will say that there is no pregnancy prior to the
implantation of the fertilized ovum in the uterine wall

and that therefore the woman has not conceived. This
sort of activity simply attempts to dodge the real issue.
At what point is human life present? The only honest
answer is at conception. The fertilized ovum is undoubt-
edly alive (i.e. not dead) and it is also undoubtedly hu-
man (it can be distinguished from all other species, it is
not a goat, donkey, whale, etc.). The conceptus is both
alive and human. The moming-after pill is chemical war-
fare against this tiny human life.

Some of the tenns used in the article would be laugh-
ably ridiculous is the matter were not so serious. On the
front page next to a picture of birth control pills, the cap-
tion reads: “The Moming-after pill: When disaster strikes,
your best last hope is close at hand ...” Why is pregnancy
a disaster? Pregnancy is the natural response of the fe-
male body to sexual intercourse. Since when is a healthy
body, acting in the way it’s supposed to, as disaster? Lik-
ening pregnancy to a ﬂood, hurricane or tornado is dis-
honest and demeaning of the real beauty of human sexu-
ality. I hope you and the students at the University do not
consider your existance the resuly of a “disaster.” Call-
ing pregnancy a disaster is simply a transparent attempt
to shift the responsibility away from oneself by pretend-
ing that one has no control by pretending that one has no
control over whether pregnancy occurs.

Equally as ludicrous is Dr. Horton calling this “a won-
derful addition to help women with their health needs.”
Since when is interfering with the normal functioning of
the human body by administering a high dose of hor-
mones a “health need”? Indeed the article admits that this
treatment is not healthy because it is not safe to be used
on a routine basis.

But the crowning irony is that students learn about
this pill as part of the I_._I_F_E program, read about it in the
w&@ section of the newspaper and have it adminis-
tered by the Health Services. This pill does not bring life
and health, but death.

As a priest and citizen of Lexington, I askyou to take
the first step toward the restoration of respect for human
life at the University by banning this so-called treatment.

Sincerely yours,
Rev. N. Alan Lipscomb

 

  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
   
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
     
    
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   

"7  uote of the Week:

  

Y./'

Dear God, What will We do With-
out Big Brother?

— anonymous freshman on Dean
Manning’s announcement

The Ring-tum Phi incorrectly identified two
people in the picture on page one on Feb. 9. The

 

two people were not Jason Nichols and Kelly Stewart
dressed as Wendy and Peter Pan, but actually
Meredith Mlynar and Charles Faulkner dressed as
cave people. We apologize for any inconvenience
this might have caused.

  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   

  

  

MARCH 2, 1997

advertisernﬁlt

 
   

 

§ u\_\ \.
>\_x

 

. ‘
§~.\9s\\:\

\
1‘

\ \\§\\

G.\\\

\ x \\\\»g\\\\\\\

\\\x
»w\

\\

xx \ 

_ s\\\\\§.+,§.\§.¢¥>.

.$\>A\ _. ,\
§§x§%
\§§\§ .

 

 

PAGE 4  O r ‘ S MARCH 2, 1998
Men’s Lacrosse (2-0) ’
we we 23 Men s lacrosse
Guilford 1
I
5”‘ Va'W°S‘e’a“ 9 d ['0 5 fl rst tWO
W&L 21 ,
W°'"e"'sLa°'°e° opponents
(0-0)
At the south ofthe Border BY BRENDAN HARRJNGTOETAFF WRHER freshman Wes Hays held Guilford
TOumamentinDm.ham/ scoreless in the second half.

Cha 1Hil1 N C For some reason the men’s lacrosse On Saturday the Generals once
pe ’ ' ' team didn’t want to score ﬁrst in ei- again gave up the ﬁrst goal and this
Season Opener Wednesday ther of their ﬁrst two games this sea- time found themselves trailing 6-3 to
at home against Guilford. son. But once they did score, they Virginia Wesleyan early in the second
ran away with both games and quarter. The Generals went on an 11-

Baseball (1 -3) outscored Guilford and Virginia 0 run, however, to Put them Well on

Th Sh d ah 3 Wesleyan by a combined score of 44- their Way to a 21-9 Win over the Mar-
11.: enan 0 10_ lins. Virginia Wesleyan went score-
W&L 7 “We got off to a slow start in both less for over 21 minutes as after lead-

of those games,” said senior tri-cap- ing 6-3 in the second quarter as they

. ’ ' “ did not score again until the end of

Menys-I-enn|s(1_1) tam Chip Thompson. But once we .
got going, we really showed how the third quarter.

Sat; Methodist 2 strong our offense was.” The Dohgherty h°Ys, Ed and
W &L 5 On Wednesday afternoon the Gen- Colin, each added ﬁve goals for the

erals kicked off their season at Guilford 1 ‘Generals While freshman Matt Dugan

on me a - _ with a 23-1 trouncing ofthe Quakers. had two goals and three assists and

W n S1-enms (0 2) The Quakers scored the ﬁrst goal of senior Paul Stanley had three goals.

F1-i_; JMU 8 the game before W&L went on to score For the Marlins, junior Scott Chan-
W&L 1 the next23 goals and shutout Guilford dler led the way with three goals and

for the rest of the game. The W&L two assists and senior Tom Lewis

freshmen combined to score 14 of the added two goals and three assists in

Sat. St€tSOIl 7 Generals’ 23 goals as attackman Matt the losing effort. The win improved
W&L 2 Dugan led the team with six points on the Generals to 2-0 Overall and 2-0 in

three goals and three assists. Class- the ODAC While the loss dropped the

Wornen’s  mates Ben Lucas, Pope Hackney, and Marlins to 0-1 overall and 0-1 in the

Tom Burke each added three goals in ODAC.

(86) the winning effort. The Generals travel to Lynchburg

Placed ﬁrst ofl 5 teams at Sophomore g0alie Dan Grattan 011 Wednesday afterlhoon 35 they takle

. made the ﬁrst start of his career; he on the Hornets in a ey ODAC batt e

Atlantlc States picked up three saves and only gave and then h0St Cortland State on Sun-

championships up one goal. Senior Scott Jackson and day afternoon at Wilson field.
Men’sTrack Interested in sports? P J Z _ / E g V E
. . . . ,9 HOT0 BY ASON ACHI;R X1:(.(/TIVE orrora
Flmshed Second at Want to Wrlte about tile  Sports Scene In  Phl '     senior All-American Mary Jo Mahoney hunts down a
ODAC championships The Rzng—t um Phl 1S lOOl{lflg fOI' SpOI'tS Wr1terS- Colgate attacker in Saturday’s 9-1 jamboree loss. The Generals were in action this past weekend at Duke and ‘
Call  for more infol-[nation L'NC-Chapel Hill in the South of the Border Tournament. '
Women’s Track '
Finished fourth at I . .
 Spring sports look to make their mark nationally »
Women’s Basketball , ’ " ' » - , .
(1243) Men s Lacrosse Women 5 Tennis
Thu: W &L 49 Their is only one thing the 1998 The Vi/omen’Stennis team plans on on the fact that she’s gone.” -7
Washington & Lee men’s lacrosse maklhg1tt0NCAAT0lh'hamehtag31h This Weekend, the team Played
Rand‘ Macon 78 team has on its mind: making a tri to this Yeah The)’ ﬁnished fourth last Year James Madison University and
p . . .
End ofSeason the 1998 NCAA Lacrosse Champion- in the championships and second the

AHEAD

Monday

Baseball —

West Virginia Tech
3:00 p.m., Smith Field

Wednesday

Women’s Lacrosse —
Guilford

4:00 p.m., Liberty Hall Fields

Men’s Lacrosse ——
at Lynchburg, 3:00 p.m.

Men’s Tennis —
Guilford,
3 :00 p.m. Upper Courts

Women’s Tennis —
R-MWC, 3:30 p.m.
Lower Courts

at Hollins, 3:30 p.m.

Thursday

Baseball —
Bridgewater

3:00 p.m., Smith Field

Saturday

Women's Lacrosse -
Denison,

2:00 p.m. Liberty Hall Fields

Sunday

Men’s Lacrosse —
Courtland State

2:00 pm. Wilson Field

March 1 2-14

Women’s Swimming —
at NCAA Div. III
Championships

March 19-21

Men’s Swimming —
at NCAA Div. III
Championships

ships, a goal which barely eluded last
year’s team despite a very successful
1 1-3 record. The Generals were ranked
as high as No.3 in the nation last year
before a pair of losses late in the sea-
son kept them from competing in the
NCAA tournament.

This year the tournament ﬁeld has
been expanded from eight teams to 12,
which means the Generals, who start
this season ranked No. 1 1 in Division
III, will have an excellent shot at quali-
fying for the NCAA tournament.
Coach Jim Stagnita, however,
downplays the expanded field.

“It’s still going to be every bit as
competitive,” commented Stagnitta.
“We’re not going to aspire to be one
of those final four teams that qualify.”

The Generals retum a core of play-
ers from last season and add a talented

. group of young freshman whose im-

pact should be immediately felt.

“The freshman class is phenom- I

enal, the best class I’ve seen in my
four years at W&L,” said senior tri-
captain Chip Thompson. “ Our senior
class is really united. Overall the team

Pyoro BY HOLLISTER H0 VEY / PHOTO EDITOR

 

The men’s lacrosse team was ﬂying high during practice this week.
Ranked eleventh in the preseason, the Generals hope to make a strong

NCAA run this season.

chemistry is just great.”

Along with Thompson, midﬁelders
Robb Greenﬁeld and Paul Stanley will
also serve as captains for the Gener-
als. Also returning for the Generals is
midﬁelder Ed Dougheity, who recieved
honorable mention All-America hon-
ors last season. The Generals will miss
the prescence of Ande Jenkins, who

against the University of Texas.

PHOTO BY JASON ZACHIER / E/\'l:'(7l/’l‘lVI5 EDITOR
Senior Lorraine Taurassi makes a pass under pressure

was a first team All-American last year.

The Generals’ defense will be the
biggest question mark in the upcom-
ing season, since the Generals lost
their three starting close defensemen
to graduation.

“The key for us is to maintain a level
of play throughout the season,” said
Stagnitta.

Women’s Lacrosse

The women’s lacrosse team ﬁnished their pre-season
against mostly Division I foes this past weekend. They
ﬁnished 4-5 for the weekend.

The Generals are looking to capture the elusive ODAC
title this year. They last won the title in 1993, the same year
they earned an NCAA tournament berth. Despite ﬁnish-
ing eighth in the ﬁnal NCAA poll last season, the team was
locked out of an NCAA berth because of ODAC rival
Roanoke College. This year, the NCAA tournament has
been expanded to 12 teams, with both W&L and Roanoke
picked to represent the ODAC. W&L returns ten starters
from last season’s 12-4 team.

Like the men’s lacrosse team, the women started off
with an impressive 10-1 mark before losing three of their
last ﬁve games. Two of the losses were at the hands of
Roanoke, including an 8-7 hearbreaker in the ODAC ﬁnal.

Leading the Generals will be seniors Mary Jo Mahoney
and Whitney Parker, both pre-season All-America selec-
tions. Parker will anchor the defense while Mahoney will
join senior captain Lorraine Taurassi up front. Taurassi is
currently ranked seventh on the all-time W&L scoring list.

“We have a lot ofretuming players, so we know we will
be strong this season,” Taurassi said. “The tournament
went really well. Things were really clicking.”

Coach Jan Hathom is looking for her ninth straight win-

ning season at W&L.

year before that. This year, they are
ranked fourth in the preseason.

“We’re pretty confident,” said
sophomore Erin Eggers. “We did re-
ally well in the fall.”

The team mourned the loss of se-
nior Natalia Garcia, a highly-ranked na-
tional player.

“She was a valuable member of the
team,” Eggers said. “I think it was im-
portant for her to concentrate on her
education major. But we can’t dwell

Men’s

The Washington and Lee Men’s
Tennis team is entering this season
ranked 18th nationally. i

The team now has a one and one
record losing to Divison 1 Radford Uni-
versity. “They are looking good,”
Coach Gary Franke said.

Junior Dave Pretila is playing in the
number one spot, and is currently
ranked 18th in the nation. He is paired
with Freshman Chris Haun to form the
Generals’ top doubles team. The
doubles team of Pretila and Haun are
15th in the national rankings.

Haun is the number two singles
player for the Generals this season. Jun-

Stetson College, both Division I teams.
The Generals lost to JMU 6-1 and lost
to Stetsen 7-2. 7
“I think that we went into 1; know-
ing they were very strong teams,”
Eggers said. “We thought of it as good

practice. As a whole, we played well.” #

Eggers said that the strong fresh-
men players make up for the three top
six players the team lost last year.

Their schedule remains strong, with
games against nationally ranked‘!
Kenyon College and Emory University.

Tennis

ior Scott Babka is in the number three 7

spot with senior Glenn Miller, freshman
Kelly Radford and junior David Lehman
rounding out the top six.

Babka and Radford form the second 34

seeded doubles pair while Miller and
Junior Thomas Washbum form the
number three doubles team.

Coach Franke says the season has

gotten off to a good start, and he will >

watch the team in the next three to four
weeks as they enter conference play.

“The team is not as experienced as
last year, but we arejust as good. The )4
guys have good strokes and are funda-
mentally sound,” Pretila said.

B21S€b£lll )1

Washington and Lee baseball will
be returning eight regular starters in
all eight ﬁelding positions and will lose
only one after this season. The Gen-
erals hope to make up for a disappoint-
ing season last year, and are looking
forward to a rebuilding season for the
team. Coach Jeff Stickley says the pro-
cess is “a two to three year deal. To
keep building is the key.”

The pitching staff includes eight
who will be here for at least two more
year. Junior Bob Weston will be the
starting pitcher. Last year, Weston ties
for second most single season wins in
the history of the team with six. He
leads the team with eleven starts and
is expected to do so again this year.

. This year’s number two pitcher is
sophomore Chris Stakem. The left-
hander adds depth to the Generals
pitching. Stakem has a .357 batting

average and started all 29 games dur-
ing the 1997 season.
Juniors Chad Reynolds and A1

Dominick add experience to the 

young pitching team that includes
sophomore Kevin Senson and fresh-
men Will Ogilvie, David Sigler and Bill
Christ.

Sophomore Christian Batcheller ’‘
will lead the outfield playing right
ﬁeld. Batcheller had a .490 batting
record while breaking W&L records
with nine home runs and 45 RBIs.

Coach Stickley said “our team
should compete in the ODAC. We have
to improve on defense. Experience will
play into improving the defense. Hope-
fully our offense will stay the same.” fl

Last year’s offense hit .332 as a team,
with 28 home runs and 208 runs scored
in 29 games. The team’s performance
is expected to be present again in 1998. ‘

 

market trading hits record high

16. Stocks tumbled without airplane stocks as Curtiss ‘hero and

g yesterday in the largest Wright Aeronautical 1 there,

g volume ever to hit Wall the selling par’ g ‘ other
t. By day's end, sales had issues. ‘  gomery
ed 4,820,840 shares, more than V”  ,.:neral Motors,
'9 of these changing hands in th *‘  ,.,tric, Allied Chemical,

New clances, styles stir American youth

May 15. The New York State York University News. “It is, 
Legislature has passed a law giving indeed, an alarminv ' tion wl‘ Q E
a state commissioner the right to our 20th Cer-‘ ite  _,
censor dances. In Utah, a statute out arr’  ‘ ~.
is pending providing for the impris- e X  ‘ § 7
onment of women wearing skir‘  .iv1exi' ., ~ g ‘
higher than three inches 9‘  -uI'C and ’ Q‘ § i 1 . "  ' ‘ours, with ma"'  -nmerican Can.
3nk1e~ And in Vl"‘ g  Paper W1’it55 1- é »~* ' ' i i  my]: ‘ O 0 . Wall Street ﬁnancial analy:‘s
decolletage. "  -., that over a dance flot‘ . . '   :2 - , ‘. g S ‘efore were at a loss to explain why tli
lawrn.,u , . S g .u shrink. rhythm With mus . . _ V-. - I . . .  . ,   market had cracked, since nothin

°‘ ' , American Wlil'l8SS, “but to  h I H10 ' are ejgh U ‘ ‘rw place to underming cor
“ . T ir heels and like a chicken on a reo 39% O V ' _ . i V ' re yed wom I
lndul hat seems -- me time shaking\° ,,e°«  . ' ._ v 3 I P 1 ,D’- Amﬂe."
to be ’ ion agains iverslikeadistufi‘. 06° ' '" . ' , i J ' ‘ -' ' ’ "*9 ‘go? [113 CM
the st es of the’ not only tI'6l'I16l).00§~  g. i ' -  ii -_:'Ia, Iojd to]
parent s. And . , but it is an 01. Q0 \‘z>  ‘ I i . mlalco C dele.
cordi rvey byt mmon decency t_X\‘3‘o5°:°%Q“'c‘ . V I. . _ . vention
New rary Digest, . t be permitted in a sen.\° 4.: 52,990 56‘? . V ' . ‘- N‘ ' ‘ W Bllsj-
maj , . icials and re— le road-house.’’ ‘0 ‘ . N . , ' ' ’ '
po » -I at the burgeoning e respected Nation of Can YOU believe Iio
y -- - is a sign larmist view. “The rank A  gel for 

r _ - n n

{ni111o
In the
Rein-
ege in

- iagazine Television
Daven Corpora-
'Jersey. has put '
first television “ g
ei to be manufactured in

' h U ' d States. The television is
actlon tqucite inriiipensive, only S75. A more
‘ S or V advanced model will be presented a1
on in Berlin on July 31.

wa

tod

new -

ed by

was awa

year for s

tum theo

the pho

light ca

rons by L.

Bohr ' I '

using q , ‘ (cent:  Wedham.
internal , I’

model
circling

II

atom. El ‘ 9
/

e

iewest dance craze

S
x
I
lower or J ' Q 9 “Up on your heels, down on your

. I’
energy 1

8 ' - toes. . .” So begin instructions for
Bohl-‘S m . T ’’ vtcomplishing the Charleston, a fad
acceptedb A ” <3» ° '

diets the e - _ 61 g t 5 \ gents to S ,y be{ fer  ’ 0 0 "harleston, South Carolina,
emitted by p. . V a < . v e {used K) 5 ‘(mg -‘ o G 0 /J. ’ /0’! «e first noted at an all-
The‘ I)’ _ .1 -, a mute “\0: t 6 er» \ 0%   opened in New
. 0 '
. ‘ ., ter0“°a 663 / sf‘ e /0

¢ becoming an institution. Devel-

turned-in toes,

Jying legs,

antically than

. Chaplin. The

o 5'00, .ross age lines; the

{e S\ g 0

:3‘ <1’, 070 . . .

e I 1 _

' I (7 %o [6 00 Q2? W/3 ﬂ 'r1set are doing

J2/C. J‘; D C)!‘ O
. g _
go 6,50?/,& Qiawaodéeg (6 :13 ,{b $902641 06 //26, ,4” '17‘, \eOp1e who
1?/O/b}(3§;) (00 Q 0 ”o’f.J‘9eeJ’ ”e,Jf‘ .ne e.‘/Q. 70%) stand-
,o,- 05 . £9 a, otly still w./0 J’ ass-

/) C} 63 J‘ 6  0

hands back and . 9/6’ fess

ﬂying took her 1'
the outskirts of
Island. Laura
most Americ
7 >_ {Q 3‘ Cadbury, who died trjjay in Birm-
Single-Seat us -, man V f .  ii i ‘ ' _ ii 7 V’  W    83 years of

fellfmma . by . ,' me 2 _.- , .. . T 1,  . _ _.,    rianufacturer.

mai plane equipped with a 40
horsepower Liberty motor at Cu ‘- '

tiss Field, Long Island, at 5:45 thigvg‘ 

evening. The flight from San Fran
isco was completed in 27 hours and
1 minutes. Miss Gatlin undertook
gde| A; I-mile ﬂight to draw atten— '
ie National Association of
0 °'d°" Gold Mothers, which she

I

hen not perro}mi§«~ '; duties as

-~ ‘ax’ aiT'°‘” Brothers,

‘l
 heIdu‘he...volved in
S C -.,iul'In, and‘ in support of
iuch work, he bought four newspa-
ers in the Birmingham district in
391. Ten years later, he assumed
iancial responsibility for The
ily News. Along with his wife,

Ba/I theme revealed, prepare for a:
Rhapsodyin
blue and white

BY LIZ DETTER
W&l.IFE EDITOR

aiting for the library elevator
on the Thursday before
Washington Holiday, two
Washington and Lee students
turned to each other in confusion.
“What were those strange eyes
copied onto a white page and tacked
to the bulletin board all about? Was
it a cryptic reminder about the Honor
System as the midtenn crunch hit?”
The eyes were everywhere, but
it wasn’t the Executive Committee
that was responsible. The eyes
were a hint from the Fancy Dress
Steering Committee about this
year’s FD theme: “Anything Goes:
Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night.”
“I knew people were going to
think it was an E.C. plot,” said FD
Publicity Chairman Sarah Rector.
Every year, the FD Steering Com-
mittee puts up posters and signs
before February Break to raise ex-
citement about the Ball. Junior
Susannah Carr drew inspiration for
her rendition of these eyes from the
eyes of Dr. T .J. Eckleberg, a famous
literary symbol from F. Scott
Fitzgerald’s classic story of the

- good life in the 1920s. Along with

several other hints, the posters were
intended to give clues to the theme
ofthis year’s FD Ball.

“The eyes are a play on the Great
Gatsby,” said Rector. “In the book,
the eyes look over the town, so we
thought they were appropriate.”

Rector also posted signs that
read “You’re Wright,” evoking the
popularity of airplanes in the 1920s.
Earlier in Winter Term, students may
have noticed signs that read, “The

Great Bambinof? That was the nick-
name of Babe Ruth, legendary base-
ball ﬁgure ofthe ’20s.

Once students returned from
Winter Break, they received FD in-
vitations in the mail that unveiled
the theme ofthe Ball. This year’s
choice of the 1920s marks a depar-
ture from the themes of the past few
years.

“I’m very excited,” said Rector.
“I think it’s going to be elegant and

a lot of fun. The theme is getting .

back to reality — it’s not Alice in
Wonderland. It’s not a circus. It’s
more real.”

The l920s is a theme idea that is
submitted every year, said FD
Chairman Jennifer J ustema. In years
past, 19205’ themes have included
“A Tribute to the Silent Screen” and
“Gatsby’s Gala,” but this year’s
theme aims to incorporate several
aspects of the decade at once.

“It was the feeling of the de-
cade that appealed — the glamor
— obviously FD is a glamorous
affair for us,” said Justema. “The
whole idea of decadence and dan-
ger was a good idea for a black tie
event.”

“Think of the old days when
FD was the social event of the
South, when people use to come
into Lexington by the train-load
for the Ball,” said Christine Bragg,
one of the decoration planners.
“We’re trying to get back to that
instead ofthe $80,000 prom.”

So throw on a beaded dress or
some spats, practice the Charles-
ton, and get jazzed for Friday night
when ﬂappers ﬂy into town for the
social event of the season.

Anything Goes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

MARCH 2, 1998

BRUSH ON,

BRUSH OFF
Senior Mary
Michael Pettyjohn
and Junior Ashley
Smith work on
Fancy Dress
Decorations. FD
workers earn free
tickets and a
memorabilia
package for one
for 25 hours of
work.
Construction
started before
February break
and will most
likely continue
until the eve of the
ball.

HoLI.1.s"I'I;R H0VI;r/
PHOTO E[)l’I‘()R

Decorations hit home run

BY ANDREA EWING

T AssocIATE EDITOR
t is all in the details. This is per-
haps the most true for events like
the annual Fancy Dress ball at

Washington and Lee University.

This year’s decorations may not
be the whimsical tents of a circus or
the large mushroom of Alice’s cat-
erpillar, but they will transform the
Warner Center and Doremus Gym
into a night that might have taken
place 75 years ago.

The decorations for the 91st an-
nual Fancy Dress ball are meant to
carry the W&L community into an-
other age —— a time of “Anything
Goes: F lappers, Flight and Jazz All
Night.” According to Decorations
Chairman Jenny Stone, the outside
entrance was designed to look like
a Broadway Marquis.

The hall between the Warner
Center and Doremus Gymnasium
will be carpeted in red carpet, and
there will be a grand piano in the
entrance hall.

“I think it will look really el-
egant and impressive this year,”
Stone said.

Doremus will be decorated in a
“Great Gatsby” mood. The gym
where liquid Pleasure will play is
meant to capture the garden party
atmosphere of the novel by F.
Scott Fitzgerald.

A large white tent with white
drapes and streams of white lights
will surround a working fountain.
Silhouette shadows will surround
the tent.

The large gym will be a l920s
night scene with different build-
ings guests can look inside.
There will be a bar, a hotel, and
even a gangster scene with a
shot-out car.

“This year is really impressive,
because it involves a lot of actual
building,” FD Steering Committee
‘Chairman Jennifer Justema said.

On the balcony a speakeasy
with a bar will be set up.

This will be lit with reddish

lighting to give the area a surreal
kind of atmosphere

Perhaps the biggest difference
this year from the last two years is
the approach the whole commit-
tee is taking.

“This (theme) allowed us to do
something more glamorous  the
others were fun and colorful,”
Justema said. “This one is sophis-
ticated  it was a nice change.”

Justema feels the decorations
will speak for themselves, “Every-
thing is done on a grand scale this
year. There isn’t one specific
thing that stands out. There is an
overall continuity  It is very
much one big set. I am looking
forward to the whole thing  I
can’t wait to see it ﬁnished with
all the details.”

Students will work on the deco-
rations in the Pavilion and then
move them into the Warner Center
and Doremus before the event. But,
the real magic comes when everyone
is dressed up and the music plays.

0990

The Crystal Tower Building
131 West Campbell Avenue
Roanoke, Virginia 24011
(540) 342 2460

LAWRENCE

ﬂ@z4ma

ﬂlneltahan
Cgkme
24 emu % e%«eer

540-404-5800

ATTENTION COLLEGE
SENIORS: WHAT DO I DO
NEXT? Be a live-in nanny for
UVA professors’ family for one
year, starting August 1. Regular
weekday schedule, generous
salary, paid vacations and
holidays, health insurance, free
room and board, own spacious
living quarters (with bathroom and
separate entrance), all utilities,
summer pool membership,
privacy, respect. Non-smokers,
good drivers, college graduates or
students only. Call 804-924-7815
or e-mail aw2b@virginia.edu.

w ewe ea

shoes, dresses, and

accessories for

FD

phone LLOB-SQ88

'23 N Main Lexington

MARCH 2, 1998

Take plunge,
bring flapper

BY JASON ZACHER
EXECUTIVE EDITOR

or many Washington and Lee

students, the search for a

Fancy Dress date can be as
simple as calling a girlfriend or
boyfriend, or as random as ﬁgur-
ing out who they woke up with
last Sunday morning.

Some students have it easy. If
they are in a relationship, the
search for an FD date starts and
ends with their “signiﬁcant other.”

“He’s a built-in date,” said
sophomore Kelly Sewell of
her boyfriend Louie Stryker.
‘‘It is one of the perks of a
serious relationship.”

Senior Ericka Shapard’s search

' for a date took her to her boy-

friend, senior Nick Hodge.

“It was easy,” Shapard said. “l’ve
been dating the same guy for three
years.”

Another issue many W&L stu-
dents contemplate is whether to stick
with another W&L student for a date
or import from a road school or home.

“The past two years, I’ve im-
ported a date from home,” said

Working

BY WILL HARDIE
:‘—“"“j"’ NEWS EDITOR

lthough the mammoth organiza-

tional operation behind this

year’s Fancy Dress ball has
taken dedication, commitment,
blood, sweat and tears by the
bucket-load, many of those
who have toiled away think
it’s worthwhile.

Around 100 students applied in
September for places on the Steer-
ing Committee, responsible for or-
ganizing all aspects of the ball.
About half were accepted.

“We were looking for people
with some experience, some skills
and some ideas,” said FD Commit-
tee Chairman Jen Justema.

Justema, with the help of the
vice-chairman and auditor, chose
sub-chairs for decorations, con-
struction, publicity, memorabilia,
invitations and the playbill.

This year’s ball will cost between
$60,000 and $70,000, all ofwhich
will be paid for by ticket and
memorabilia sales.

For their pains, committee mem-
bers will receive two ball tickets and
a package of memorabilia. The 40

Anytliinglloes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

Junior Travis Winfrey.
“This year, I’m sticking
with a W&L student.”
Senior Steve
Komonynsky, who
prefers W&L women
for dates, may have to
head to the old W&L
dating grounds — the
local girls’ schools.
‘‘I’m going to call her

today,” he said. “If she’s
taken, I will sieze on a girl
from down the ma .”

While some students, including
Winfrey and Komonynsky, simply
pick up the phone to ﬁnd a date, some
guys, like one potential date
for Shapard three years ago, go to
great lengths.

“Freshman year, I had a boy come
into a midterm I was taking,” Shapard
said. “He told me he needed to talk to
me, mid-test, mind you, pulled me out
into the hall and asked me to FD. It
was very strange! I bombed my mid-
tenn and we did not go together.”

No matter what approach you
take, some seniors give this advice
for those having trouble ﬁnding a
date for this year’s Fancy Dress.

down to

student contract workers hired to
help put the ﬁnishing touches will
each get two tickets and half the
memorabilia package.

As well as that reward, Justema
said a lot of committee members had
fun putting it all together.

‘‘It’s nice because there’s a real
variety of the student body,”
Justema said. “There are people
from every class and it’s a
good chance for different classes
to get together.”

Vice-chairman Mary Michael
Pettyjohn agrees.

‘‘It’s been greatjust because it’s
such a diverse group,” she said.
“We have people from every soror-
ity. And we’ve even had a
couple of boys. We’ve all worked
well together.”

There have been no major hitches.

“lt’s gone pretty smoothly, and
it’s been relatively stress-free,”
Justema said. “Hopeﬁilly we can ﬁn-
ish it all up within the week and put
on a good ball.”

Students can purchase two tick-
ets to the ball for $53, or two tickets
and a memorabilia package for $88.
The sale starts Monday in the Uni-

1. Go out on a limb. Ask that
person you’ve had a crush on.

2. Ask a friend to go before you
ask that random hook-up victim. You
just might have fun.

3. For W&L women, Virginia Mili-
tary Institute boys are always an op-
tion. Pro —— men in uniform, always
a good thing. Con — they have to
behome by 1 am. For W&L men, it’s
about time they start bringing VMI
women to FD. Pro — women in uni-
form. Con — bald women don’t
make for good party pics.

4. Pick up a random townie at
Spanky’s, the Palms or the ever-
popular Taco Bell.

5. RCHS isonlyashort drive away.

the wire

versity Center.

“Everybody seems very dedi-
cated,” Pettyjohn said. ‘‘It’s really
fun. I’d much rather be in the pavil-
ion than in the classroom.”

The fivestages of the FD date experience

I DoN‘T WONT
A F1/G./IN6 D975.’

0
0
O

ANGER

lunar awe: oa~E WONG?
Oo a smgu. 90. some Tuna’.
Fm Got/~16 To 505*?” FOR

0 (HEEL...

DEI'I?ES'SI0/V

PAGE 3

Avoid jail bait,
Swensen says

BY ERIC SWENSON
STAFF WRITER

ut ofall the staff columnists, l
as the lucky one chosen to
write the column on Fancy
Dress. I’m sure I was chosen be-
cause my editor has faith that I
will turn out a column on FD that
will warm your heart and tickle
your funny bone. More likely than
that, she was throwing darts at
pictures of her columnists while
trying to decide who to pick and
happened to hit me right between
the eyes. Anyway 

People often stop me in the street
the week before FD and ask, “Eric,
oh wise one, I don’t yet have a date
for Fancy Dress weekend. What-
ever shall I do?” (OK, so no one talks
like this, and no one stops me in the
street to ask me questions. lt’s a
column. Work with me a little bit.)

My first responseris usually,
“Have you trolled the parking lot
at Rockbridge County High
School yet?”

Most people laugh, like l’mjok-
ing. Then they realize I’m serious
and begin to panic. They ask almost
pleadingly, “ls there nowhere else I
can turn?”

Ofcourse there is. You can turn
to the bottom rung on the date week-
end totem pole — the blind date.
Suddenly, RCHS looks much more
attractive. But wait just a minute.
Blind dates can work out beautifully.
Here’s a true story from which the
dateless and the desperate can draw

some inspiration.

Back when we were both fresh-
men, a good friend of mine (who will
remain nameless in case he doesn’t
want the entire campus to know this
story) was set up on a blind date
with a young woman for a formal at,
shall we say, another nearby insti-
tution of higher learning (a.k.a. a
road school). My friend had a repu-
tation back then for being, well, a
bit of a booze hound, and the guy
who set him up did so expecting my
friend would pass out, leaving his
blind date ripe for the taking. My
friend found out about this little
scheme. Mainly out of spite, he
stayed semi-sober the entire week-
end. He ended up really hitting it off
with his date, who turned out to be
a knockout. They fell in love and

"began dating. The ﬁrst date func-

tion they went to as a couple was
FD. This year, they’ll be going to
their fourth FD together.

So what is the moral of this story?
Blind dates can work out betterthan
your wildest dreams. Ofcourse, the
chances of that happening to you
are about as likely as getting struck
by lightening and winning the lot-
tery in the same week.

After all, blind dates are the ulti-
mate crapshoot, sort of like leaving
your car parked on the streets of Lex-
ington for more than two hours.

Then again, ifyou’re not willing
to take that risk, the lovely men and
women of RCHS are but a short
drive away.

no Bic, VEAL - I'LL 6E7
A DGTE TomOf(tLou7.
O

D
O

/DEN/QL

PLEILSE oar) I'LL NEVEA
D/{INK A»(,Au\( n= Y00 6|‘/E
me A Dara,

O

O
0

/3.‘)/?6 :9/N//V 6

flag... I w0~DE& M1‘ AN)’-

one NEEDS A $088‘
:>mvsrL ‘runs WEEKEND.

r9CcE/’7'AA/L E.

1F You A/£5 éowé
Takouul mesa “"653
B-?CAu.$€ 7_o_o I>°~’7 “AVE
A 9,;-re) Cut. Tlhs No.1
1 .. goo- Sur,i< :7’ UP!

8To¢° Bswe A v3'ABv)
mice A DEEP 139-&ﬁTu_.,
A/vo ILEAAAEE runs is Jvsf
Pﬂom wmr 4 B16652 B00653‘
Mo S4—ibHTl«Y ante; msre.

AVIITEBLE

AnrninaGves=F1awers, Flehtwd Miriam

‘Kiss Off’ Thursday night

BY HEATPIER MCDONALD

NEWS EDITOR
hursday night, the Pavilion will
burn like a blister in the sun.
This year, the SAB contrasts

new and established musicians
with blues guitarist Corey Harris
for the opening act and the ever-
popular Violent Femmes for the
1998 Fancy Dress concert.

Many have asked, “Who is
Corey Harris?” Corey Harris is a
young, up-and-coming blues gui-
tarist that some have compared to
a young B. B. King.

Harris released his debut Com-
pact disc, Between Midnight and
Day, in 1995 on the Alligator
Records label after being discov-
ered in New Orleans. His follow-

up, “Fish Ain’t Bitin’”, was criti-
cally acclaimed. Rolling Stone
magazine said that with his “coun-
try-blues acoustic guitar style and
soulful voice, Harris recalls old
blues masters.” However, Harris
attributes some of his inﬂuences
to African drumming styles he
heard while studying linguistics
in West Africa.

The Violent Femmes, originally
from Milwaukee, had their first re-
lease on the Slash label, way back
in 1982.

Their most popular song, “Blis-
ter in the Sun,” was first released
on this album, along with “Kiss
Off,” “Add It Up,” and “Gone
Daddy Gone.” Since then, the
Femmes have released 1 1 CD5.

They finished recording a
twelfth CD in January. The release
date is unknown. The Femmes
were popularized recently for their
re-release of “Blister in the Sun”
for the “Grosse Pointe Blanke
soundtrack.”

Gordan Gano, the lead singer
and composer, writes lyrics that
are personal and powerful.

If you can’t get enough of the
Femmes and don’t have a date for
FD, drive on up to Washington,
D.C. on Friday night. The Femmes
will be playing at the 9:30 Club.

The concert begins at 9 p.m.
The show may sell out, so pur-
chase tickets in advance. Tickets
are $10 for students ($l2 at the
door) and $16 for non-students.

MARCH 2, 1998

In Concert

In 1982, a band came out of
Milwaukee not with a whimper,
but with a bang. The Violent
Femmes had appeared, and with
the group came a multi-platinum
album full of songs of frustra-
tion and rage. Still together to-

C ourtesy of Erica Prosser/ FD Playbill

Violent Femmes

day, they have changed only a
little from their early sound
and style.

The group is made up of sur-
prisingly normal people. Gordon
Gano, the lead singer and com-
poser, is a practicing Christian
and responsible for the religious-
sounding songs the band per-
forms. Bassist Brian Richie is
an atheist who puts up
with the sometimes-Christian
slant of things.

Drummer Guy Hoffman re-
placed Victor De Lorenzo, the
former drummer for the group, in
1993. Now, the three-man band
is riding the wave of their “come-
back,” after a lull of success in
the 19805.

Small Gym

Liquid Pleasure

Liquid Pleasure will be the '
featured band in the small gym
at Fancy Dress 1998.

In an industry where the av-
erage life of a band is about
ﬁve years, Liquid Pleasure has
set a new standard. As they
enter their 20th year, they have
ﬁrmly established themselves
as the area’s premiere show
and dance band.

Three out of the six present
musicians who make up Liq-
uid Pleasure are original mem-
bers. This type of consistency
combined with exceptional tal-
ent sets Liquid Pleasure apart
from the rest.

Over the years, the band
has appeared with such no-
table artists as Paula Abdul,
The Temptations, Whitney

B0 -Thorpe

The Bo Thorpe Orches-
tra will be the featured band
in the big gym for Fancy
Dress 1998.

Every now and then
something truly unique
comes along in the world of
music. One ofthese is The
Bo Thorpe Orchestra. This
is a band that has this gen-
eration ofAmericans danc-
ing again.

Courtesy of Erica

Prosser/FD Playbill

tlrehestra

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY
YOUR LOAN.

After just three years in
the Army, your college loan
could be a thing of the past.

Under the Army’s Loan
Repayment program, each
year you serve on active duty
reduces your indebtedness by
one-third or $1,500, whichever
amount is greater, up to a
$65,000 limit.

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans
and certain other federally insured loans which are not
in default.

And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army
will give you. Get the whole story from your Army
Recruiter.

(703) 886-265 1
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Houston, The Four Tops and
  Aretha Franklin.

Courtesy of Erica Pr0sser/ F D Playbill

Fancy dress is a
memorable occasion so
dine at a memorable
restaurant make
reservations now to
avoid the last minute

/AN

III C Ill 5 III
III III III
III III III
UII 00' Ill
- -l i l . .
. .i. . l .. .
-

The______.

WILLSON- 
WALKER 
HOUSE  __

Restaurant’

Special fancy dress dinner
menu serving creative
American cuisine

Walking Distance To
Visitor Center & Both Colleges
30 N. Main Street

MARCH 2, 1998

'4/‘tar mrtra/htr A/‘the lII’£IIl7i%} WM 119...

Speakin’ easy

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
—--——--mMANAGING EDITOR

me would think that Washing-
ton and Lee students had enough

of Prohibition in the 1920s.
Apparently not.

Sigma Nu is holding a “speak

easy,” a party that will mirror a 19205
«club during Prohibition. The location
is secret, and the guest list is exclu-
sive. If you don’t know the secret
password, you’ll be spending
Wednesday night watching Beverly
“Hills902l0.

All music at the party will consist
of jazz and swing tunes from the pe-
riod, as well as retro-swing like “Big

‘Bad Voodoo Daddy.”

“The purpose of the party is to
circumvent Prohibition and drink
bootlegged alcohol smuggled directly
from Al Capone,” said the suave host.

4 Other activities during Fancy
Dress will follow traditions that
have been around longer than
underage drinking.

Sigma Nu other tradition is for the

‘(brothers and their dates have dinner
together at the fraternity house., in-

stead of breaking apart into smaller
groups and traveling to Roanoke or
other nearby towns.

“All of the brothers get a chance
to get together and eat together, toast
together and walk over to the ball to-
gether,” Senior Doug Hesney said.
“It really brings us together as
a brotherhood.”

Toasts are essential at

Anything Goes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

dinner, ladies included.
“We always run out,”
Aaron Michaelove said.

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY

Senior

Other fraternities like Sigma Chi

and Sigma Alpha Epsilon hold cham-
pagne brunches after the ball.
Pi Kappa Alpha has perhaps the

most interesting tradition of all.
“We have one tradition,” Brian

Rogers said. “Every year all of the broth-

ers and their dates rub Scott

IN

Hooks’

head for good luck and good dancing -

mostly for good dancing, thou

Sh?’

Sigma Nu, and get quite in-
teresting after the house
goes through the wine.

“We have two that we
do every year,” an anony-
mous fraternity member
said. ‘“To honor  get on
her and stay on her  to
honor!’ and ‘Here’s to ly-
ing, cheating, stealing and
drinking. If you’re gonna
lie, lie for a friend. If you’re
gonna cheat, cheat death.
If you’re gonna steal, steal
a woman’s heart. If
you’re gonna drink,
drinkwith me!”’

One bottle of wine is or-
dered for each person at

APT for RENT,

EXCELLENT LOCATION,

3 BEDROOM,

MICROWAVE FOR
MORE INFORMATION,

CALL 4()3*76QO

LAW

LONDON
CLINICAL

INTERNSHIPS

May 25-July 17, 1998

Division of International Programs Abroad

Summer Programs Ofﬁce
119 Euclid Avenue
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
1-800-251-9674

E-mail: DIPASUM@suadmin.syr.edu

Summer Tour Guides
The W8L Admission Oﬁice is now accepting

applications tor summer tour guide positions. All
interesded students should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday, March 30,
_ 1998 to
Julia M. Kozalz
Associate Dean ot Admissions
Ottice ot Admissions

ERIDAN

, \’ I
 1:-.2

Seatood Deliv

Dailyl

Fresh Cut Steales

and Pasta!

FANCY DRESS 1998

WE LOOK FORWARD TO
BEING PART OF THIS
MEMORABLE EVENING!
ENJOYAN EVENING
OF FINE DINING
AT LEXINGTON ‘S
NEWEST EATERY!

MAKE YOUR
RESERVATIONS TODAY
4644887

tor oletails at

X8876 or ><880l

CW/lode/§&  .'

male/female for drawing
and painting classes
please Contact

Drotessor Quin

Pay  
is $ 10/hr.

SEMESTER ABROAD IN cusm RICA

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke University are
accepting applications for the Fall 1998 semester for a ﬁeld-oriented,

science based semester abroad program in costa Rica. Students earn,

16 credit hours in tropical ecology , environmental science and policy, ﬁeld
research methods, and Spanish language and culture.

Credits may be transferred from Duke University

-hands-on experiential learning - independent ﬁeld projects
- cultural immersion - extended stays at remote field sites
- home stays - extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact
Organization for Tropical Studies. Duke University
Te|.: (919)684-5774; Email: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>

http://www.ots.duke.edu

Application deadline for 1998 Fall semester is

March 20, 1998.

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY

O
>
K
O
i-
‘L’
:
n
H.

O
>
Z
O
I-
‘L’
::
in
IL

O
>
1".‘
O
I-
2
:|:
a
ll.
_ O
>
¢
0
I-
5'.’
:c
c:
II.

O
>
G
O
I-
2
:c
a
II.

1907 Bal Masque

Librarian Annie Jo White used $42 in leftover theater
funds to create the first Fancy Dress Bail. The Feb-
ruary 9, 1907 issue of the Ring-tum Phi announced
the upcoming “Bal Masque” on Tuesday, February
12. it promised an “affair...exceptionally pretty and
brilliant...and quite an innovation to Lexington soci-
ety.” The crowd danced to the sounds of the VMI
orchestra, who ended their set with “Home Sweet
Home” at 2 a.m. There was class the next day.

1908 Fancy Dress

1909 Fancy Dress

From 1909 to 1914, the Fancy Dress Balls were held
on a skating rink on Main Street.

1910 Bal Masque

1911 Bal Masque

1912 Colonial America

1913 Bal Masque

1914 Bal Masque

1915 Colonial America

1916 Court of Louis XIV

1917 Bal Masque

1918 Europe and Columbia, Gem of the
Ocean

AMidsummer Night’s Dream

Bookland

1921 The Chinese Court of Chu Chin Chow
1922 The Scottish Highlands

Evergreen trees decorated 1922’s Scottish Highlands.
The Ring-tum Phi reported, “The most notable part
of the whole ‘carnival’ was the unusually beautiful
girls who thronged to Lexington  Such a type of
femininity is peculiar only to certain particularly fa-
vored comers of the inter-collegiate world.”

1923 Le Bal des Operas

1924 My Lady of the Fan

The 1924 ball was the first one under the control of a
president elected by the student body.

1925 Romance of the Dance

Romance of the Dance celebrated the evolution of
dance from ancient themes to the modern age. Two
orchestras performed on the Fancy Dress floor for
the first time.

1926 Bal Beaux Arts

Following the 1926 ball, the Ring-tum Phi urged a
change in Fancy Dress dance policy: “Due to the
crowded conditions which will exist on the floor, it
has been suggested that the ‘Charleston,’ which has
been banned at several southern schools, be limited
as much as possible.”

1927 Carnival of Venice

Women from Sweet Briar College (usually the most
popular among W&L men) couldn’t attend the dance
because ofa diphtheria quarantine; Hollins women
couldn't come because ofexams.

1928 Bookland

Decorations included two huge Dutch wind mills in-
side Doremus Gymnasium.

1929 1001 Nights

1930 Spanish Fiesta

1931 Robin Hood

1932 Colonial Ball

1933 Ball of the Grandees

1934 Coronation of Emperor Alexander III
1935 Congress of Vienna

The Associated Press distributed pictures of the ball
viaits new wire-photo service. Ballgoers received a
commemorative picture frame emblazoned with the
university.

1936 Queen Elizabeth and the Earl of Essex
1937 Italian Renaissance

The Fancy Dress Ball committee set aside $350 to
decorate a “smoking room” for the 1937 ball.

1919
1920

i"i"'!I'2‘¥"es=.F'**Pt'=*s’ 

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD

1938 Charleston, SC on the eve of secession
Annie Jo White told the Ring-tum Phi she liked this
year's theme but she felt Fancy Dress was “getting
to be too much of a public affair now  it used to be
almost a private dance, but now anyone can get in.”
1939 Knights of the Golden Horseshoe
Juniors and seniors were admitted to the main dance
ﬂoor, and sophomores and freshmen were admitted
to the balcony. Spectators were also admitted to the
balcony for $1 per person. For the bail there were
1,100 advance room reservations in Lexington.
Women from 30 states, Cuba, and Canada attended
the ball. So did Virginia Governor James H. Price.
1940 Kentucky Derby

Students wore costumes reminiscent of the “Roaring
‘80s” at the 1940 Fancy Dress. Kay Kyser’s orches-
tra premiered its new song, “At the Fancy Dress Ball.”
it had been arranged that morning in less than thirty
minutes. CBS radio broadcast the evening’s perfor-
mance.

1941 King Rex and his court at Mardi Gras
1942 A Night at the Monte Carlo Casino in

1861

The December before the ball the faculty committee
on student social functions recommended modifica-
tions to Fancy Dress plans “Purpose of the action
was summarized as twofold: to demonstrate, by steer-
ing away from a ‘too ostentatious’ affair, that the
student body is aware of ‘responsibilities  in a pe-
riod of grave national emergency”’ and to avoid rack-
ing up a budget deficit. The Fancy Dress chairman
did travel to New York and Philadelphia to iron out
details with decorations and costumes.

1943 American Spirit

American Spirit was the last Fancy Dress until 1947
because of World War II. The ball portrayed groups
of American patriots: the 1776 revolutionaries, the
group of U.S. military and naval heroes in the War of
1812, the heroes of the Mexican War, the Civil War

MARCH 2, 1998

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD

fighters, the Spanish-American War soldiers and the
World War I ﬁghters.

1947 Carnival at Rio

Fifteen inches of snow did not stop 2,000 people
from attending the ball.

1948 Hampton Court under Charles II
Decorations for the bail included a “fratemity hall.”
Each fraternity was given an 18-foot longsection of
the wall to decorate in fraternity colors and to put up
large cutouts of their crests or pins.

1949 George Washington's Birthday Ball
1950 King Arthur's Court

Students made the decorations for the first time at
the 1950 ball, instead of hiring professional interior
decorators.

1951 Carmen

A bullﬁghting arena was constructed on the dance
ﬂoor.
1952
1953

The Works oi Shakespeare

The Court of King Louis XVI

1954 King Rex and his court at Mardi Gras
1955 An Odyssey Through Empires

Costumes included the Greco-Roman, Ancient Chi-
nese, Central Asian, Arabian, Egyptian, Moorish and
Viking peoples. WSLS—TV in Roanoke broadcast foot-
age of the ball the next day.

1956 The Wizard of O1

1957 Mozart's Don Giovanni

1958 Gilbert and Sullivan at Buckingham
Palace

1959 Golden Jubilee (50th anniversary)
1960 The Evolution of Man

The exams schedule of Hollins College prevented
Hollins women from attending the ball. The Ring-
tum Phi’s Hollins correspondant wrote: “Have a drink
for us.”
1961 Shakespeare in the court of King
James

1962 High Society

“My Lady of the Fan”

“A Carnival in Venice”

BACK IN

THE DAY
During the
1920s, Fancy
Dress was a
costume ball.
That meant
students spent a
lot oftime and
money dressing
up to ﬁt the
theme. These
pictures are
taken from the
1924 and 1924
Calyx. The
1924 FD was
the first one
under the
control of a
president
elected by the
student body.

MARCH 2, 1998

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HIS-

1963 American Civil War Centennial

The cocktail party held before the ball in honor of
Fancy Dress’ chairman had a quite a different theme:
Playboy. The party room was decorated with Play-
boy paraphamelia: rabbits, balloons, and free sou-
venirs. Each escort was asked to submit a photo of
his date; contest chairman Ralph Wiegardt said:
“Don’t hide your bunny under a bushel, enter her in
the Playmate contest!” Playboy publisher Hugh
Hefner called during the party to name a winner.
1964 Mardi Gras

1965 Mississippi Riverboat

1966 Derby Day Ball

In the election for Fancy Dress chairman, senior Joe
Miller was opposed only by Fritz, a white German
shepherd and mascot of the Phi Ep house. Fritz got
one-fourth of the votes in the race.

1961 Opening Night

1968 High Society

An article in the Washington Post said the balls in
the late 1960s used to center on the “ﬁgure,” a dance
in which couples formed the shape of the Washing-
ton and Lee crest. This included a four-sectioned
blue, red, and yellow shield with a noble bird and a
bottom ribbon inscribed with the school motto.
1969 Inaugural Ball

1910-13 Only Concerts were held

1914 Mardi Gras

Tickets were $4 for fraternity members and $7 for
non-fraternity students. During the ball, students
dumped a pitcher of beer on University President
Robert Huntley.

1975 In the Mood 1941

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HIS-

Anything Goes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

1916 Hurray for Hollywood!

1911 Passport to Paris

1918 Glories of Egypt

The ball was held in Evans Dining Hall and the Uni-
versity Center and featured a professional belly
dancer named Jameela. Ajazz pianist played in the
Executive Committee room. John-Ivan Palmer, an ex-
pert in the area of extra—sensory perception, set up
shop on the second level of the University Center.
1919 A Taste of the Big Apple

The day after the ball the freshman class sponsored
its annual grain party.

1980 Monopoly: A Stroll around the Board
An editorial in The Ring—tum Phi on the I980 Fancy
Dress Ball said tickets were selling on the black mar-
ket for $40 a couple. Tickets to the ball were limited
because, according to city ﬁre code, only 2,500 people
could fit in the building. At the ball, a woman from
Hollins had her $10,000 mink coat stolen from the
coat room, but the Lexington police soon recovered
it.

1981 On Broadway

1982 A Diamond Jubilee (15th anniversary)
The two spotlights outside prompted claims of UFO
sightings from Lexington residents.

1983 An evening along the Mississippi River
1984 Lost Cities ol Gold

1985 The Mini: Dynasty

Mink Dynasty featured live exotic birds where tro-
phy cases in the gym used to be.

1986 Carnival - A Night in Rio

A llama rented from the Natural Bridge Zoo escaped
from the dance. The Phi reported that quite a bit of

I PAGE 7

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HIS-

Killian's red ale was consumed at the ball, and a law
student slapped his date, prompting a Student Con-
duct Committee investigation.

1981 The Darlc Continent

The Minority Students Association boycotted the
ball.

1988 Reconciliation Ball of 1865

1989 The Orient Express

An Evening Excursion on the Orient Express was the
most expensive Fancy Dress ever; it cost over
$100,000.

1990 Gatsby‘: Great Gala

1991 A Royal Festival at King Arthur‘: Court
At 9 P.M. at the ball, the committee realized it had
purchased 700 pounds of ice, 450 liters ofCoke, but
had forgotten to get cups. A committee member was
dispatched to East Lex to purchase 4,000 cups. A
record 3,500 people attended the ball.

1992 Voyage to the Age of Exploration

1993 Celebrating the Silver Screen

1994 A Magical Carpet Ride

Magical Carpet Ride featured a live, photogenic camel
from the Natural Bridge Zoo. The camel was led away
soon after he became angry and started spitting on
people. Inside the ball was a l4-foot—tall throne at the
top of a staircase where ballgoers could have their
picture taken. A Ring-tum Phi camera also captured
the image of a male ballgoer seductively dancing with
a team of middle-aged belly dancers who performed
during one of B0 Thorpe’s band breaks.

1995 Une Soiree Parisienne

1996 A Mad Tea Party

1991 Under the Big Top

FANCY DIIDSS IS THIS FRIDAY!

ANYTHI

l~’Iz:;:;2z2z*.s', i"l{g'i;£; t
A .  ““

K.

”’tf

Dist zlrzsszzzzi
lhsliington & Lea I/nivcrsity Marc]: 6, 1998

NI} GOES=

 .i:2zz All iiigkt‘

l...

TICKETS AND MEMDHADILIA
  AIIE DN SALE THIS WEEK IN
THE DNIVDHSITYCENTEH,
HDDM 109.
NIDNDAY TD WIIDESDAY:
IDAM TD APNI AND 6 TD 9PM

THURSDAY: IDAM TD 4PM

FRIDAY: IDAM TD 2PM

and Robin’s

agent

a mestead
_ rve Garden

exington and the surround-
' area offer a host of din-
. n g
options on the average night,
but the quest for a pre-Fancy
Dressrestaurant requires more
thought and planning. For FD most
restaurants in this area provide a
special, albeit limited, menu. This
normally consists of at least three
varied entrees, and can also include
appetizers, etc.

Most restaurants accept reser-
vations several days, even weeks,
in advance, so planning in advance
is a must. Lexington is a strange
place. There are many ﬁne restau-
rants to serve a very small popula-

‘é

A Z
The Last lizlngll

‘Ar ‘A’ it ‘A’ of 4

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN
—————— H11 MOVIE Cnmc

.W. Murnau’s “The Last

Laugh” (1924) is an odd

film, one that deﬁes ﬁlm
conventions ofplot, characteriza-
tion, valuejudgement which can
still be seen throughout the cin-
ema. “Der letzte Mann,” the Ger-
man title, can also be translated
as “The Last Man,” with the con-
notation of “The least of men.”
To examine a man described with
such an appellation is a fascinat-
ing experiment. And even more
than most films with title charac-
ters, “Der letzte Mann” concen-
trates completely on its old door-
man. There are perhaps four or
ﬁve scenes that do not include
his physical presence, and these
are all set—ups for his reactions to
them. The audience is truly in-
vited to get inside the psyche of
this hotel porter, almost to the ex-
clusion of other characters or the

tion, but some of these places would
not make it in the big city.

If you come from a place that is
known for ﬁne dining (Houston,
Atlanta, D.C.), then comparing these
restaurants to the places you have
back home is an exercise in futility.
For many different reasons, includ-
ing the availability of certain ingre-
dients and a competent staff, it is
always best to judge the restaurants
in an area against each other.

Maple Hall - Situated out past Lee-
Hi on route 1 1, Maple Hall has been
our pick for the last three years. At
Maple Hall you will receive ﬁne food
and excellent service. You do pay well
for what you receive, but compared
to the other Lexington options, we
consider Maple Hall the best choice.

Sheridan lilVel'y lﬂll - Located in town
for convenience, the Inn normally
provides good food and service. The
prices are more reasonable than those
at most places, but the boisterous at-
mosphere can be a big detraction. For
the budget conscious dinner,
Sheridan Livery Inn is a great choice.

Willson-Walker Ilonse — Also located
in town. Most people seem to like
Willson—Walkeras a back up in case they
can’t get reservations somewhere else.
The service and the atmosphere are both
always great, but from our experience
the food is not nearly worth what you
pay for it. We guess the owners have to
make a living somehow. If dining in town
is important, you have money to burn,
and you are not ravenously hungry as

milieu ofhis city or home life.

The doorman, played master-
fully by Emil Jennings, is a pa-
thetic yet noble character who is,
ironically, fired for doing hisjob
too well. He heroically moves a
heavy trunk without any assis-
tance, assistance he normally has,
then stops for a short break. Only
the break is noticed by the hotel
manager, who demotes the door-
man to restroom attendant, strip-
ping him of his identity and sta-
tion in life.

Previously, we have seen the
effect his uniform has had on the
doorman. Respected, at least to
his face, by his friends, family, and
neighbors, he moves with pride
and a puffed-out chest down the
streets where he lives. We see him
salute passersby, who seem as
delighted by hisjoviality as he is.
He is dignified and correct, yet
tender, stopping to prevent the

my:

Doug always‘ is, Willson-Walker is a
good choice.

The Inn at Union Run - Some people
really like Maple Hall; some people
prefer Union-Run. The debate has
been raging for years at W&L, but
we feel both places have their merits.
If you don’t mind a short drive for
your meal, Union Run offers a delight-
ful atmosphere and
quality food.

The Staircase -

Probably not most
people’ s ﬁrst choice,
but this little bar and
grill has been know
to bring out the
tablecloths and ﬁx up
a special menu for
Fancy Dress. An-
other eatery located
close to the action,
the prices should be
reasonable and the
service good.

The Homestead - President Clinton
has been there several times; the
food must be pretty good, or then
again maybe they are serving him
fried chicken. In any case we have
heard of several couples making the
really long drive to dine at the Home-
stead, and all have returned with
good reports. If you are looking for
something really different, and you
don’t mind the drive, then this may
be just what you are looking fo‘r.-

The lllive Garden - You’ll have to
drive to Roanoke for this one, but it

I’ I 1’ Capture the spirit of the twenties with a

‘Last’ flick for FD

other little children from teasing
another child, brushing the child
off and giving him some candy
before passing on. Jannings
plays all of the doorman with
gusto and big, robust
movements which never
go overboard.

So the ﬁring, with its reposses-
sion ofthe doorman’s uniform, hits
hard Besides the effect of ﬁring
on the man himself, the neighbors
begin to gossip and make fun of
the doorman and his family, fi-
nally driving the doorman’s new
son—in-law to kick him out ofthe
house. Although this is the most
unbelievable part ofthe film, it
does have some validity and
moves the story to its intended,
and necessary, destination.

The camera effects, ones which
might be criticized in a ﬁlm reach-
ing for realism, actually add to the
realism here. Effects such as see-



MARCH 2, 1998

may be just what you want. The
menu never changes, not even for
Fancy Dress, and the quality of the
food is consistently good. The prices
are reasonable, and on a good night
the service is great. However you
may not be able to get reservations.
Recently the Olive Garden stopped
taking reservations for Friday night,

so this could be a problem.

Tips for a pleasant dinner and
FD: Many restaurants allow you to
give a credit card number in advance,
so after your meal, there’s minimal
hassle with the bill.

Don’t try to put the cork back

in the wine bottle. You might hit ’

your date in the head with a cork!
(Personal experience)

If your chosen restau-
rant plays music (or muzac)
in the background, call
ahead and make a request
for some lighter classical
music, rather than tinny
renditions of Hanson and
the Spice Girls.

Wherever you eat, we
hope everyone has a safe and
enjoyable FD, and one more
word of caution: it‘s probably
a bad idea to get sick on the
Dean or University presi-

dent of your choice.

BAND Stnlllnnn

B G) H

NO BAND

X ‘I’

Uncle Mingo OPEN

E N

Baker CLOSED

(D A O

Deep Banana Blackout CLOSED
(D F A

Belizbaha DAY OPEN

CD K 2

Voltage Brothers DAY OPEN
G) K ‘I’

NO BAND

K 2

Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
OPEN

U KA

Junkyand Bhuda OPEN

H K (1)

Big Mama Boogie Band DAY
OPEN

Breakfast Club CLOSED NIGHT
Z X

Convertibles DAY OPEN,
HOUSE CLOSED

Belizbaha NIGHT OPEN

2 A E

Circle Jerk and the Wonder
Dogs DAY CLOSED

Voltage Brothers NIGHT OPEN
2 CD E

Wild Grass DAY CLOSED
Convertibles NIGHT OPEN

ing things from the doorman’s

jpoint of view, even when he is

drunk or confused, actually recre-
ate natural processes in ways that
take the viewer inside the
doorman’s mind.

And the elaborate production
design, with beautiful sets and
well executed costumes, allows
Murnau to show us a place that
does not really exist: the city from
the perspective of the doorman,
darker and more forbidding than a
real city might have looked had it
been used for shooting some of
the exterior scenes.

“Here the story should really
end for, in real life, the forlorn old
man would have little to look for-
ward to but death. The author took
pity on him and has provided a
quite improbably epilogue.”

This sarcastic statement, near
the end ofthe ﬁlm, points the ﬁlm
in a new direction, changing it from

a moody, almost documentary
story about a ﬁred doorman to a
short “rags—to-riches” comedy vi-
gnette.

We see the man, abandoning
the family who has abandoned
him, lording his newfound wealth
over the manager who ﬁred him,
now remembering the night watch-
man who took pity on him and the
poor who are treated by others
with disdain.

The shock of the ending,
strangely, seems to counteract
some of the heavy-handedness
ofthe first part ofthe film which
was not as believable. Now the
audience is simply happy for the
doorman instead of considering
his own missteps that may have
added to his misfortune or the
overreaction of the other char-
acters. The ending provokes
thought long after the film
has ended.

 

class

 

The Women’s lacrosse team

 

  

Swensen debates the practicality of

Hi l('3 starts off 20. Meanwhile the tl1e Swiss drug policy ourEditon'al
4 __ Find out l'lOW the m , _ , '
_| av _On womens tennis team doesn’t argues that the Honor System
 ca Km Gog Hgege Studem 0 drop a set While cruising to a sometimes helps those who exploit
.. ‘( ; Spends his Week Q_ 20 ODAC record. it,
t PAGE 3 (0 PAGE 4 PAGE 5
R ~ ‘ ‘ liplk Rate.
A B ‘I III -111111 
I  Washington and Lee University Monday
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 16 MARCH 9, 1998

t Eating disorders
, lurk below surface

BY WILL HARDIE
NEWS EDITOR

nly ﬁve students turned up
to take part in the national
eating disorders screening

program on Wednesday Feb. 25.
University Counsellor Anne
McThenia believes that the poor re-
sponse belies the true extent of the
problem at Washington and Lee, and
is disappointed that so few took ad-
vantage of the opportunity.

On Feb. l7, all Washington and
Lee students had received an e-mail
saying that screening tests would be
available throughout the day on Feb.
25. The screening program, run by
the non-proﬁt National Mental Ill-
ness Screening Project, aimed to raise
awareness of eating disorders.

None of the students who were
screened were at risk. “For them it

- served as an educational tool,” said

McThenia. “They came because
they had concerns and wanted to
validate them.”’

According to the National Insti-
tute of Mental Health, more than ﬁve
million women in the United States
suffer from eating disorders. Bulimia
is the most common, afﬂicting be-
tween 2 and 3 percent of young
women. About 1 percent of young
women are anorexic, and about 2 per-
cent of the general population have
binge eating disorder, which is un-
usual as it affects men to the same
degree as women.

“We know there are a large num-
ber of people with eating disorders,”
said McThenia. “The question is how

‘i to reach them.”

She believes that about 5 percent
of college-age women have an eat-
ing disorder. “Knowing that that ﬁve
percent are out there makes us want
to reach a wider audience,” she said.

The university health services
considered mandating at—risk stu-
dents, such as athletes, or even all

It freshmen, to be screened for eat-

ing disorders. The idea had to be
abandoned, because it was thought
too intrusive.

But Jan Hathom, women’s soccer

and lacrosse coach, said she would
support such a program. She has seen
three cases of eating disorders among
athletes in the last six years.

“I recognize that it will feel rather
intrusive to the ladies. They are not
going to like it, but it’s not going to
hurt either. It is the most likely way
to deal with this issue.”

04 Because of the secretive nature of
eating disorders it is diﬂicult to gauge
the extent of the problem at W&L.
But there are several reasons to be-
lieve that the incidence here may be
higher than the national average.

Psychiatrists believe that eating
disorders are associated with certain
personality traits, such as perfection-

ism‘and ambition, and with higher
socio-economic class.

“W&L draws people that ﬁt the
proﬁle,” said McThenia. “And the
pressures at this institution make
them doubly vulnerable.” She said
that danger factors at W&L include
the high pressure to succeed, the high
expectation to look a certain way, the
the low level of intolerance of dif-
ference.

“People who are at W&L want to
go into professions that seem to em-
phasize appearance more than the
wider ﬁeld, I think irresponsibly,”
she said.

Another factor might be the rela-
tively recent arrival of women as a
group at W&L. “Those women who
ﬁrst came here knew that they were
under great pressure to succeed aca-
demically and socially,” said
McThenia. That pressure might have
been passed down through succes-
sive generations of students.

Dr, Jane Horton, Director of
Health Services, agrees that this may
be a factor. “They are very much visi-
tors in a male social environment,"
she said.

The building of sorority housing
might shift the social balance in fa-
vor of women. But, Horton said, “So-
rority houses are by their nature not
the sort of places where these big
parties happen. The question is, can
they create a different social environ-
ment that is healthier?”

Health Educator Jan Kaufman
said her task is “getting people to
accept their body images, to learn to
feel comfortable with themselves.”
McThenia said that the atmosphere
at W&L does not help them to do
that. “This would work better in this
environment if it were tolerant of dif-
ference of every kind,” she said.

Kaufman has come across a vari-
ety of disrupted eating patterns
among women at W&L, including
what she calls the “bagel diet,”
whereby a student eats nothing but
bagels, and the “popcom and diet
soda” diet.

Eating disorders are particularly
difﬁcult to treat at college age be-
cause the attitudes that underlie them
developed as early as fourth or ﬁfth
grade or in high school.

“The difﬁculty is that it’s a whole
societal problem,” said McThenia.
According to a 1992 study, half of
9-year-olds and 80 percent of 10-
year-olds have already dieted. 40
percent of American women are on
a diet, though half of those are not
overweight. Kaufman blamed the
cultural and media emphasis on thin-
ness, as well as “the belief that look-
ing thin is a prerequisite for being

(GD SEE FAnNG PAGE 2

Sophomore Riley Greeme dips
his date, sophomore Susan Terzian.
This is their first FD together,
Greeme and Terzian have been dat-
ing for three months. (Left)

Sophomores Joe Hawkins and
Ellen Klenk socialize in the gym
lobby. They have been dating since
high school, which was in India-

FLYING FLAPPING AND DIPPING 

napolis, Ind. Klenk transferred from
Dickinson to W&L this year. (Top
Right)

T.J. Griffin, '97, chats with a
ﬂapper on the dance floor. Griﬂin
returned earlier this year to escort
senior Mary New, the 1997 Home-
coming Queen. (Bottom Right)

FD Committee workers ﬁnished

decorating the gym by 3 pm Friday.
In years past, workers constructed
until the start of the ball. As of
Thursday night, the FD Committee
reported that $60, 000 worth of tick-
ets were sold. Most of the
committee’s budget comes from
ticket sales and a small portion
comes from the playbill.

D-Hall
workers

upsetat.
FD cost

ill?) Controversy arises over
half price FD tickets

BY SEAN MCMANUS

 

TAFF WRITER
Serving side dishes and swiping cards
brought sonre Dining Hall workers more
than a free meal. Student workers received
half-priced Fancy Dress tickets, but not
without some controversy.

About I0 of the 28 D—Hall workers
took advantage of a compromise reached
between a disgruntled D-Hall worker and
the FD Committee. Knowledge of the dis-
count passed between workers through
word of mouth.

According to Carolyn Lee, FD Audi-

- tor, it had been customary in years past
for full—time, non-student Dining Hall staff
members to give away their ﬁee FD tick-
ets to students. This year the Committee
decided to begin stamping faculty and staff
tickets with the label “For faculty and staﬂf
only.” This made the tickets non-t1ansfer-
able, a decision which angered many D-
Hall workers who had grown accustomed
to going to FD for free.

“We were losing thousands of dollars,”
said Lee. She said the $25 tickets were for
this year only. The workers received no
discount on memorabilia. Since FD is
frmded exclusively through ticket sales,
Lee was looking for a “fair” way to tighten
the budget without raising ticket prices or
slashing the decorations budget.

Last Monday, Omar Vannoy, student
manager for the D—Hall, alerted the Ex-
ecutive Committee to the D—Hall work-
ers’ concems, accordingto Chris Baldwin,
vice-president of the EC. He noted that
given the context of fratemities at W&L,

‘Lord knows, Anything Goes’:

Fancy Dress a crowd pleaser

BY ANDREA EWING

“people come to rely on certain things
from year to year, and it’s hard when you
take those things away.”

Vannoy could not be reached
for comment.

Lee said a “certain D—Hall worker
threatened to strike” if the workers didn’t

ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Anything Goes. Especially on Fancy Dress weekend.
Friday night a majority of students at Washington and Lee,
some faculty and staff celebrated the 91st Annual Fancy

Dress Ball.

The theme was the “Roaring Twenties: Flappers, Flight,
and Jazz All Night.” The gym became the scene of gang-

sters, ﬁappers and a speakeasy.

Senior Bill Wamock summed the weekend up when

he said,» “I had a hell ofa time.”

The overwhelming reaction to the ball was one of awe
and appreciation. Awe because of the decorations, and
appreciation because there was not a rap band for the
Thursday night concert. Junior Nathan Hager said, “Thank

God for a rock band Thursday night.”

From the standpoint of the Fancy Dress committee,
the ball was different from the past two years. Junior Mary-

*First woman elected to EC

I
BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
=—--—-———j- MANAGING EDITOR

Fourteen years after the first
women were permitted to attend

Q Washington and Lee, Beth Formidoni,

’96, ’99 Law, was elected the first fe-
male Executive Committee President.
She received 524 votes to junior James
HasIam’s 281.

Formidoni doesn’t believe that gen-
der elected her, but stated that it “was
about time.” “I was really glad that
gender didn’t impede my campaign in

a any way,” she said.

As a graduate and a second year
law student, Formidoni has noticed
some distinct changes at W&L.

“Women are more accepted at

‘V W&L now,” she said.

“This just doesn’t apply to my elec-
tion, but to Amy Gorham’s election
to Vice President two years ago. I
don’t think that would’ve happened

my freshmen year,” Formidoni said.

Haslam posted signs around carn-
pus plugging himself as the candidate
“Continuing 250 years of tradition.”
Haslam denies that the slogan had
anything to do with gender. “I didn’t
know how to interpret it,” Formidoni
said. “I have to assume the best and
assume that he meant it in an innocu-
ous way.”

Although some surveys say that
leadership differences do exist be-
tween men and women, Formidoni
believes that this will not have any
bearing on her ofﬁce.

“I think that gender may make a
more pronounced difference in a dif-
ferent context, like the President of the
United States,” she said. “Women are
usually less violent, and this would
make a difference when going to war.

Q9 SEEECPAGE2

NEW EXECUIVE Committee
president Beth F ormidoni will be the
first woman to hold that position.
H0l.l.I3'l75R [‘]()l"EY/RING-IUM PHI

Sommers Burger who was on the committee said the
decorations were “sophisticated” and was quick to point
out that many members of the Theatre Department
helped to build the set—like decorations. “It looked pro-
fessional. Not like a bunch of college—students with
some paint brushes,” she said.

Whether Greek or independent, students cel-
ebrated Fancy Dress in their own ways.

Burger, a Kappa Kappa Gamma, spent the week-
end at various parties in Red Square..

“It was a lot offun since all my friends were there.
Wejust hung out and had a good time and then went
to Lee-Hi,” freshman Betty Alkire said.

Fancy Dress tends to be W&L’s “80,000 dol-
lar answer to the prom,” but this year was a memo-
rable one. _

“They rolled out the red carpet for us,” Wamock
said. “New Orleans has Mardi Gras. W&L has F.D.”

receive free FD tickets. According to
Baldwin, the workers felt the non-trans-
ferable tickets were a surprise and there
wasn’t time to save for the cost of FD.
“... We reached a compromise in spite
of the threat not because of it,” Lee said.

According to Director of Dining Ser-
vices, Gerald Darrell. “No one ever came
to me about a strike,” Darrell said, “and
even if one student chose to walk out, he’d
be there by himself.”

Students who can’t afford to attend FD
can apply to be part of the committee
or to be a contract worker.

“We hope no one would be pre-
vented to coming [to FD] for ﬁnan-
cial reasons,” Lee said.

Courtney Miller contributed to this article

   

   

   

P '  '5 Msnaerisc Epirox’
 rtislrdrorne every day at
‘ «half-Fit edwomen, militant

 

  

   

A I 2. smaenaaa.2ige:‘memii¢ney’sw$ru;.,r1ieycan;-};ia;.Zi.i-
someone like thatongc-SP , .”   . .   ‘ 
SomethinkitW8S'§‘bad‘ideato’givé'up‘onSpringer..:

“I think that all Contact  here,are,;

   

 

I ,_ ,_ V ,  ‘ lovers:  ‘Washington and
A   the shmce to hearthe king
, of allof these valueﬁthe talk show host Jerry Springer.
Contact came very close to booking him, but after they
2 discovered lira:-‘Springer would be, speaking for what
Contact lfresiderrtiioshua Heslinga call “other motiva-
tions,” they decided against it. ‘ l
Contact had been speaking with Springer’s agent
fora few months. They had the option of waiting for a
few months or giving‘ up altogether. “

 

 

from his agent that Springer doesn’t speak to speak, but

his price at $5,000, which is low forsomeone of his cali-
ber. But that was obviously for other motivations.”
Heslinga said that Contact looks for speakers who are
interested in coming to W&L and interacting with the
studmjtgi “Ifthey’rejust here to promote themselves, the

“We were hoping to get him but “we also found out

speaks to promote his show,” Heslirrga said. “He kept ,

out for promoting'thern‘selves or abook they’re writing,” ‘ 
said senior  Fobi, an avid Springer /viewer’. “Con- V
tact always bringgthesame types here. i There are‘1,000

Pat Buchanan clones here, so we really don’t need more

peopletlikc   you think because he’s so

outrageous”,  here, it would’ve been bigger
than Jesus: Everyone loves Jerry.”

Fobi believes  Springer represents Americana.
“Jerry is theAlexis 'de’IToqueville of the 20th Century.
Like Toquevilledid-mthe 1800s, Jerry gives an accurate
picture of America. ‘If you want to see what America
looks like, watch Jerry.”

Fobi,_cites his ﬁworite episide as the one titled, “Pm a
High Class CalfGiﬂ, but You’re Just a Cheap Ho.”

“It’s right up thae with the last episode of M"A*S*H
and the “who shot JR” episode of Dallas,” he said.

Springer’s “Too Hot for TV” video has been a hot

SEEJERRY PAGE 2

 

/W/i
FOL./0
379,765

 

       
  
  

/IR :3 :3 "Z-,  
/ 99 7/ ’~i’ )4
V. /o 0
14 . I
:7,   ‘I settle those matters as well as to console. I don’t
‘KCEEC *1’ kn h dl’h d ‘t
 OW PW TO ea Wlt rape an  acommi -
tee don t know how to deal with it.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 Fomiidoni was disappointed with the poor
But obviously, this won’t be a situa- Voter turnout.
tlon I Will have to deal With a5 EC “I am really surprised that voter turnout would
President-” be so poor on such a small campus. Gossip gets
Eollhldohl does hot pel5ohall}’ be’ around so fast, but the fact that an election is going
lieve that rape should be considered on goes unnoticed)’
an EC matter and an honor Vlolatlon- How did Fomiidoni feel aﬁer she heard the leg-
“l think that it l5 a Very dlshonorable endaiy “leave now” speech her freshmen year?
act! hllt lt l5 not an apptoptlate matter “I was scared,” she said. How does she feel < .
for the EC to deal With” about delivering it in September? “I’m scared,” Need 21 DISC Jockey for your next party? 2 The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke
Making rape a matter for the EC she said. “I don’twant to scare the freshmen, but '3‘ University are accepting applications for the Fall 1998
would not be fair to the victim, and I want them to really understand the honor sys- can the Mark Daughtrey DJ Service at  E semester for a field-oriented, science based semester ‘
would decrease reports of rape on cam- rem, But I really don’t want to be just explaining it dable 3 abroad program in costa Rica. Students earn 16 credit
pus, Forrnidoni said. “The Student and not be Serious about it I will deﬁnitely p,ae_ Serving Thel/VXL c<:rnn'ii.in“l’i_.; since|o8o vi.i‘l‘n ast, depen ca hours in tropical ecology , environmental science and policy,
Faeulty Hearing Board is trained to me the Speech” semce a gem, sound sjsfemland an Ofgour favmfeparrg 1-mes E ﬁeld research methods, and Spanish language and culture.
a
lqaomlg 3 bash at lhela5l ml“-‘Te? D3-7e"dl"l9 °" 3"3l3blll‘.-it Mail‘ 9"‘ g Credits may be transferred from Duke University }
beal 90! Pall‘-‘L sehp’ and be readg To ljag Wlﬁin a Coude of E -hands-on experiential learning - independent field
hours of gour all 5 projects
- _ - |—- cultural immersion - extended stays at remote field site
The Mark Dall8ht1'eY  Servlce Lexlngton ‘IL’ - home stays ° extensive travel to diverse ecosystems it
I7 2
4 __6__ 3 - 9 3 3 53' For brochure and application materials, contact

   
    
  
   
       
    
  
 
 
 
  

Fathers and older broth-

      

    

 

V
 ers often trigger eating
(C.   N G disorders.” She said it has
'‘ E1 a particularly strong im-
CONTINUED FROM PAG pact when women feel NG‘ THAT WE CAN I
asked out, and for success in jobs.” that men are. eValllatlhg THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL Tl“ 3 ‘
She said many students have expe- them In the dining hall  REALLYCOUNTON TOHELP USACCOMPLISH ALLTHAT 
rienced pressure from families and The ‘°"=‘%e’,“b“?"“a‘  Wl3NEEl)TODO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE 4 re
boyfriends to lose weight eatlng bel‘‘”'.‘” '5 3"  THETOYOTA COROLLA. OVER THE PAST 30 YEARS, E
”°."°“ .f°“°ws “P ‘° te" mes loweddto f°?,:”::ie,,’e:,h§  COROLLA HAS BECOME one or THE MOST TRUSTED V 7
ofeating disorders on a regular ba— more eep 3’ g _ e .  ‘ THE WORLD AND NOW ITS MLNEW Wm!
sis, and acknowledges that this may becomes, the more dlffl- ,3 ‘ CARS lN ' ‘ l 
be the tip ofthe iceberg cult it is to reverse, and  MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALI.-NEW 
“Those are the ones who are the more Serlous the ' ALUMINUM ENGINETHATS ONLY MORE POWERFUL,  I
seeking help,” she said. “so much physical damage It IT'S MORE ECONOMlCAL...UP 'l‘O as MILES PER ’
of the disease is based 0“ denial °a“”5' The .°°"”' GALLON lllGli\\’AY. COROLLA is SAFER AND ‘"
and se°ie°Y- EV“ Wile" We °°“' 9“‘°'“°.°‘°‘ °f l°a‘”“g eat" QUIETER,ANDBESTOFAl.L,lTSTARTS
front someone we suspect has a lng dl5oldet5_ ““tteated ATAPRICELOWERTHAN LAST
pmbiem’ She often w0n9t ae- are very serious.‘ they YEAR MORECAR LESS 1‘
knowledge it.” have among the highest . 
“If anything, it’s going to get death rate of any P5)" MONEY. WHAT A 
worse,” she said. “This is going to Chologloal dl5°rder- Be‘ REFRES H l NG 
continue to become more promi- tween 5 and 20 Percent CHANGE; ’
nent. Mothers who have grown up of Untreated ahotexlos 'l
under thinness are teaching their die, from the damage
daughters that behavior.” StarVatloll does to ‘hell
Horton has seen a gradual in- bodies or by S1l.lelde- av
crease in eating disorders at Horton adVlSeS all)/' *
W&L, but said that this might rep- one seeking help for her-
resent an increase in awareness. Self or for 3 friend to Vlslt .
Though around 90 percent of the Counselling Center, the '
eating disorder sufferers are health edUCat1onCenter,a
women Horton stressed the role peer Counsellor or a l-lEE
of men in the problem. “We un— member, WhleheVer feels
derplay the male role,” she said. more comfortable. All ii
“Things they say affect women. services are conﬁdential. -

Todd parker 
March13, 1998        i..,.‘}'='.;‘.“.‘§.'i'.‘,’.'.."‘i’=‘I'.'.‘....»
Get ready W&L, Todd Parker          l  
is about to hit the stage! His e      Yrggijgﬁtﬁm aVer:/
Comedic talents have been   l  ’a“”g‘°'Wi ~-WiiiiamRavdin,T|AA-CREFParticipant
showcased on FoX’s“Married HIGH MARKS FROM   »

With Children” and MTV ’s &8ﬁ1’,A1§g%lI)%I£S, _
“Singled Out.” He will be °

“Money Magazine, January 1993

. . ‘ N ;e take a lot of pride in gaining high marks operating expenses that are among the lowest in the E
  r a   S O ‘ ‘ I from the major rating services. But the fact insurance and mutual fund industries."
is, were equally proud ollthe ratings we get every With TIA/\-CREF.you’ll get the right choices-

day from our participants. Because at TIA/\-CRlil’, and the dedication ——to help you achieve a lifetime
0 - )i
th    E ' V ' ensuring the financial futures ofthe education and offinancial goals. The leading experts agree.
C C C

research community is something that goes beyond So does Bill.
stars and numbers. Find out how TIAA-CREF can helpyou build a

\Ve became the world's largest retirement orgii- comfortable. financially secure tomorrow. h
nization‘ by offering people a wide range ofsound Visit our Web site at wvvw.tiaa-crefiorg or call 5

investments, a commitment to superior service, and us at l 800 842-2776.

III
1

Ensuring the future

-. for those who shape it.
Q i 5
     ' .\UX|l(\': .\luniiiigsi.ir. lmz. l.iuii.u\ 31. I998 .\luriiiiig«r.ir i« .m ll\tlk'|\\'lI\lL'lIl wrxicc Ill.ll l.llL'\ IllllI\l.ll Illlltls .mr‘l \.iii.il\|c .|lIl|l|ll|C\ ‘I lie mp lIi“..ui't'iiiiti\ in .in lll\L'\Ill\\‘III c.iu~gi>r\- (L'\'L'I\k' iiw \r.ir~ and ilic |lC\[ 22 .-'-“..
’ 9 :- rccciic rah .ll\ .\InrIIIIIg\t.li piU|VI‘l£‘l.lr\ X.II||Ig\ .-i-tit» L l]|l '

.u «ml pt-iilnni.iiitr .iiul .\u- \|Il‘]t’\'I ll aiigc cu-ix iimnrli. ’l hcr .irc r.iluil.irul fruni ll\\' .iu'uiixir’~ rhrcn .||||I it-int-.ir .I\L'r.|iLL' .iniiii.il
mums III -tthriiri ii.“ llk'.\\\|l\ lull !l'lllIli\\\Illi J]

5 p . .l\ll|l\Illl£’ili\..lll\l.llI\hY.l«‘li|i |li.ll I\'ilk'\I\| ri'
piililhliui l’.lIlIl_L'\. uliitli .llL' uciirliiul .i\m.i_ur-ml ll\ll\ll'L‘ .ii\r

   
 

 

(IrlII.|l\tk' l‘\'lH\\ 90 L..I\ 1’ bill fL'l|Il’|l\. ‘inc ii\\‘t.\ll \l.lrr.1IIII_L'~ IL kllkkl Iil.Il3ii\L' .l|k' .\i..i.i..i,v.i...x 

 

id mi \k'.ll l.llII\g~ lril )‘\'lIU\l\\'|I\l|||_I.l l.iuu.ii\ RI. [998 liic ~ci\.ii.irr-iiiiipiilwlislicdiuiiiiigxiiirmtlini’rlicpciiml~.iir

 ciuir Stuck Antonin CRBF Global Equities Amum cur Equity Index Account our Gm-ch Account cur Bond Mum Auoum cur Soda! Choice An-oum

‘ .\ur Kiriiig xur RJ|||\§ \r.u l{.iiiiig \i.n lLiiii|g .\i.ir R.iiing, .\r.ir luring

3 X|IlIllK'lUll71ilIl\'\lIx hiiiiri .\'iiiI\l\'rui lIllL‘rI\.l!IuII.Il l'qilll\ .\'..mi».lr..i ihmh-ti.‘ mun .\'.i.iii~i-mi‘i>i..iim..- iqmh xuiuix-n-i’i‘nt-ii llk(illK‘.\uUlII\l» .\'uiiil\'rnl isiiiiimc iqmn

. . E Period \u'-mun Kuui \u<iIiii(~ lL\lnl .\uI'\Illl\ R.iiul .‘\\'t'0\Il\l\ iumi R.iictl .\tL'UlllIl\ iLih~.i

E 3 \1~.u 4 'l,?lS(i -l 391 5 i_.\-an . 5, Liesh 4 '(\'5 4 1_x.:ri

j .;'\'\'.H 4 1.2124 5 10' .\‘ v\ _\' 'x\ 4, 443 4 1.118

' iu.ia-ii 5 hi: x ,-\ .\' A x,ci. .\'/A x,.\ F

 
 

. l E --'i‘iit-wi..,i,,...,.gt.i.cind-.i...i i'i.u~..-wt-,»n......iii...mhiimiigrii.iiiiim ,i..i...g..i..i.h .m.i mt-..iii.ipa.ui.igpt-ri2mii..ii.c lR.I\(‘kl(III.I\~£'i\\IlInlCl |l\.|lLIgt'lIk "smiimmi oi-.....-2 Int!!!‘/lYlii' I(irIm_n .iimii..i.

r . iw‘. l.imVv.'r .‘\lI.Il\ll\‘.Il .\('r\ICk'\, liu . 1,.’/l[|i‘l"l)ii'i'i‘liii"r ;lIillI\'lli'il[ Iinm. 1w‘ .rg.i..ni-mi < lll F\L‘i1Iii\.IlL'\ Jlhi II\!t‘r\'\[~ H) flu‘ 'l'l.\.\ it.-ii i«i.n.— .\(x |lI .l L" ilixirihiirnl In iiu ('KH- lII\li\lAllI.Il .m.i

- S i lilslitlilinihll \'t».n.i-t l‘iirlllilI’L'\'U|l\plCIt'Illilirllulliill, IIl\'l\I|lIIl§1\'ll.lIgr~.\lul n’\|\'I\\4'\.L'.|ll I xiioxiz l_33,\‘\Xt'll\IiIll 5.:i(W_liirllk' i'itii.m.i iiu k1'.\l l'\l.Ilt' .‘\\'\'U|III( ]VrU\|M'\ln\<'\ i<i~.i.i llk'lI\\‘.\YL'lllli\ IK'|ilIk'
. \ \(I|l |II\k'\l U! \L'lI\l |Hi!I\\'\

. .../

r; 1 r-vei l-Tu‘. i i'".-‘"v"RY
_,,._....  .

JAiv‘i‘E$_ _
w,A_si-litwitii _
i.,EXiNf.:'

     

l

 

 

MARCH 9, 1998

class

&life

Survey of freshmen

PAGE 3

jobs which provide them with the
opportunities to interact with and

disease and health care as their
primary concerns.

11
\ StUdentS re\/93/3 tone help others. The percentage of students who
- - W&L’s class of200l has already plan to enter the workforce after
for new millennium shown its willingness to be more in- graduation and those who plan to
volved in the community. The Fresh- do some type of graduate work is
9;’ man Leadership Council has created split nearly down the middle. Sixty-
a partnership with the local commu- two percent do not want to follow in
nity center. Each week freshmen stu- the professional footsteps of their
dents tutor and play games with parents, and popular career choices
. young children participating in the of the class of 2001 include busi- In a typical week the aver-
"g V After School Program at the center. ness, law, psychology, education, age Generation 2001 col-
. “Our country’s leaders have al- medicine, and computer and tech- lege student spends:
 ways been quick to endorse nology-related ﬁelds.
; | volunteerism and helping others,” “Even though Generation 2001 o 44 hours sleeping
(  (s1aidtl(rtzt11ne. ;The surveys resulths in- studflntsfglave nlot hafdd to exlperience . 26 hours socializing
. icae att 1S generation may ave muc o erea wor ont eir own, _ " . 0
taken the advice to heart.” they recognize that they need to work '7 hours °°m°.[° class
BY Gmcm PHI”-‘P5 8 Northwestern Mutual Life Insur- The survey shows that 75 percent Students also ranked their main hard to achieve good things and work ° '5 hours 5”'dy"‘‘=’>
‘ Tm “"131 ance Company recently commis- of freshmen believe that it is more political and social concerns in the with like-minded creative and idealis- ° 15 hours listeningto music
 sioned a survey of a cross-section rewarding to work for their success survey. Education topped the list tic people,” said Krane. “In return, - 1 1 hours using a computer

e always remember those
“ﬁrsts” throughout his-
tory — the ﬁrst to land

on the moon or the ﬁrst to ﬂy an
airplane.. W&L’s freshman class
also has its claim to fame, as it will
help to constitute the ﬁrst college
graduating class ofthe new millen-
nium. They are the class of 2001,

of 2,001 freshmen from 101 Ameri-
can universities. The survey found
that a majority of this new genera-
tion has established speciﬁc goals
for itself and that students are con-
ﬁdent that they will be able to reach
those goals.

Freshman Wendy Case said, “I

than to simply get a lucky break.
David Krane, vice president of
the survey company Louis Harris
& Associates, said of the class of
2001, “They also recognize that
achievement isn’t going to be
handed to them on a silver platter
——- they will have to work hard and

as 68 percent of freshmen say that
education is the most important is-
sue that needs to be addressed by
the nation.

The same holds true at W&L.
“Our class is very determined, fo-
cused, and goals-oriented. We are
hoping, through education and hard

they will be rewarded with a lifestyle
that they grew up in.”

The prospects for the class of 2001
are limitless. It is the responsibility of
each individual member of the class
to ensure that this new generation
lives up to its potential. If the W&L
freshman class is any indication, then

° 8 hours in front ofthe tube‘

' 7 hours playing sports
or exercising 4

° 7 hours dating

' 6 hours surfing, the net
or_E-mailing

° 3 hours reading for plea-

in and it will be up to them to set the can deﬁnitely see this data reﬁected perhaps make sacriﬁces to achieve work, to better our lives,” said this should prove to be no problem. sure_
stage for succeeding generations. in the freshman class here at W&L. their goals.” Freshman Leadership Council mem- “We are a very well-rounded class
“I don’t want our generation to Our grades have been so high, our Generation 2001 is also notavery ber Jeff Cook. “We deﬁnitely have with a lot of leadership, intelligence, How do you think "W&L
haveapoor reputation,” W&L fresh- S.A.T. scores were excellent, and selﬁsh group of young people, as our heads on straight, and we un- and motivation,” said Katie Baldwin, Students Compare? write
V man Deena Johnson said. “It is our people seem to genuinely care about nine out of ten students say that derstand that education is the best Freshman Class Vice President. “Ibe— Us at phi@w|u.edu. The

responsibility as both young people
and the ﬁrst class ofthe millennium
to prove ourselves and our capabili-
ties to the world.”

their futures.”

However, the class of 2001 is fully
aware that the key to achieving suc-
cess is hard work and determination.

helping others is a higher priority
than helping themselves. Over 65
percent of the college freshmen sur-
veyed say that they hope to find

bet to success in the future.”
Students in the survey also

cited crime and violence, the en-

vironment, political leadership,

lieve that we will live up to our poten-
tial and even surpass it to raise the
standard for the entire national class
of 2001.”

results of our informal
study will be published
next week.

l Workbench provides
links for Christian
in community

BY ERICA PROSSER

(13 Dedicated students work long hours 

to help students, improve University
Computing’s reputation.

BY ERICA Pizossiziz

STAFF Wanna

om Weatherly was once a frustrated student. He

knew a little about computers, but he sometimes
had bigger computer problems that only an experienced
person could solve. This is how Weatherly ﬁrst en-
countered the University Computing HelpDesk.

“From my own experience with the HelpDesk as a
client, [the HelpDesk attitude] made me, and possibly
others, feel that the client’s problem is not nearly as
important to the worker as it is to the student,” he said.

His concerns about Washington and Lee comput-
ing were shared bylifaculty and students all over cam-
pus. All that has changed, though, and Weatherly
knows it because he now works for the HelpDesk.

“They take enonnous amounts of pride in their work,”
he said. “It is this drive to solve problems and help that
has made our senior employees so knowledgeable.”
Now that he’s on the other side, Weatherly is becom-
ing knowledgeable, too, and he helps with the best of
them.

But the attitudes of most students have not changed.
What is the HelpDesk? Who works there? What does
it do? And most importantly, is it to blame for the com-
puter trouble that has students griping at 3 a.m.?

According to the HelpDesk website, any student
withr“a personable demeanor, some knowledge about
computers, and an interest in learning more” can apply
to work for the service. The HelpDesk stays open for
set hours (9-5 Monday through Friday, 7-10 on Sun-
day), and 22 students share those hours in shiﬁs. Each
student can work up to 10 hours each week, and most
students work 8-10 hours. When one works for the
HelpDesk, though, one becomes part of a power struc-
ture of which few students are aware.

The hierarchy is complicated enough to be mistaken
for a that of a European royal family: The workers are
broken up into four “teams,” and each team has a stu-
dent “team leader.” The teams are Operating Systems
(led by senior Doug Brown), Applications (led by
sophomore Justin Wagoner), Labs (led by senior Josh
Heslinga) and Hardware (led by junior Cliff Woolley).

Over all the students sits a grown-up supervisor,
Dirk van Assendelﬁ, who works in University Comput-
ing and is known as the Student Computing Coordina-
tor. The average student’s mind reels at the complexity,
but HelpDesk employees take it in stride, concentrat-
ing instead on getting the job done.

“We provide help to anyone who contacts us (stu-
dents, faculty, staff, etc.) on almost any computer-re-
lated topic, free of charge,” said Heslinga. “As far as I
know, there are no general kinds of problems that we
can’t solve.”

There are a few kinks in the system, though, since
the big switch of the campus computer systems this
year. For one thing, a few speciﬁc computer models
simply will not support the Novell log-in software that
runs in all the computer labs. But it is computers’ ten-
dency to crash that causes most resentment.

“Any time someone is working on a paper or some-
thing at 12 midnight or 1 a.m. and Jefferson crashes, that
person tends to be very disgruntled with University Com-
puting,” said Woolley. “When the same happens to the
same person more than once, that person starts to feel

SrAFi-‘\WR1'i‘Hz

Washington and Lee Christians have a web resource
they may not know about.

The Carpenter’s Workbench, a set of pages on the W&L
web site, provides Christian resources for anyone through
links, information and pages tailored to the W&L student

4 community.

Junior John Wilbers started the pages when he was a
freshman at W&L. ‘‘I wanted to increase communication

_ between the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the Inter Var-

sity Christian Fellowship, and local churches,” hesaid, ‘There
" 3 were very few W&L organizations with web pages then.”

Though the W&L web site grew around it, the
Carpenter’s Workbench, so named because Jesus (a car-
penter) works through the groups on the page, remained a
steadfast resource for Christian surfers. The site has had

ll about 2,000 hits since it ﬁrst went up, a number that sur-
prised Wilbers.

“it’s a much bigger turnout than I expected,” he said.
He said that most of the page’s viewers are not current

4 W&L students. Rather, they are prospective students and
their parents, Christian people who are curious about the
religious life on campus. The prospectives and their fami-
lies are always glad to see the pages, Wilbers said.

“I get a lot of e-mail,” he said of the positive feedback

’4 he receives on the page. “I get a few every couple of

weeks, but it adds up.”

Freshman Lee Anne Applegate used the page as a re-
source when she was considering attending W&L. The
page gave her some idea of the Christian groups on cam-
pus, and she was able to contact involved students di-
rectly through the page.

“It’s nice to have somewhere to ﬁnd W&L students to
get in contact with,” she said. “It made it much easier.”
4 Wilbers and a handful of others keep the page up and

running with their programming skills. University Regis-

trar Scott Dittman provides some guidance for the page.

As site administrator as Wilbers is the one who answers J

the mail and makes the big decisions. For now, his next

V major project is the new Carpenter’s Workbench.

The new page will feature the same resources as the old
one, but it will do it with more style. A draft of the new
page is already up, and curious people can view it from the
old page. Wilbers predicts that the new page will be up by
mid-March and ready to help Christian surfers everywhere.

“I want to continually improve this page,” he said.

Wilbers won’t be around forever, though, and after he
graduates next year, someone else will have to be the ad-
it ministrator. Wilbers hopes that a responsible freshman or

sophomore will step in for thejob so that turnover is mini-
mized. The page needs a trustworthy leader because its
popularity continues to grow.

With the plans for expansion and the existing popular-
ity, the Carpenter’s Workbench is set to become a key-Chris-
tian resource for surfers everywhere. But Wilbers never
forgets the true meaning behind the page.

‘ The Carpenter’s Workbench can be found on the W&L

‘ website by looking under “Organizations” or by linking

directly to lg)://www.wlu.edu/~workbnch.

THE HELPDESK receives around 100 calls per week H011./.s'11;IeHoV15r/PHo7o EI)l'I()R

When there’s somethin’ strange
in the network neighborhood...
Who ya gonna call?

HelpDesk

of students coming in, broken laptops cradled in their
arms. A few minutes later, those same students would
be smiling and thanking the staff for their help as they
left. The creation of the Labs team (a new group this
year) means that some members of the staff are respon-
sible for running around to the campus labs and making
sure the printer paper is stocked, the computers in gen-
eral are working, and the users are happy. Overall, com-
plaints about the campus computer service have
dropped since the initial problems ofthe system switch
at the beginning offall term.

Do the employees like their jobs? Despite the fact
that they, too, have overheard the muttered, negative
comments about the HelpDesk, they generally enjoy
what they do.

‘‘I’m pretty new to the
HelpDesk,” said freshman
Robert Marmorstein, “but
it’s a wonderﬁiljob and very
challenging.”

Heslinga has worked at
the HelpDesk since the be-
ginning offall term, and he
said he has beneﬁtted from
the experience.

“I think l’ve learned a lot
about computers during my
time on the staff,” he said.
“Sometimes it’s frustrating when a particular problem

more complex than it seems on the surface. It gets even
better; maintaining the ten or ﬁfteen servers around cam-
pus is a 24-hour-a-day job, but employees do it for the
sake of the 2,000 to 2,500 people who use the campus com-
puters and services.

What about individual computer problems that students
may have? The HelpDesk works for them, too. Any mem-
ber of the student body, faculty or staff can bring in a
computer and have it examined. If the computer owner signs
a waiver, the HelpDesk workers will do their best to ﬁx the
machine. Some things have changed about the service in
the past year, though.

“Our policy does now include ‘no house calls, said
sophomore Steven Klotz. He addresses complaints about
this change by saying that
fewer house calls means a 
more efﬁcient and helpful
HelpDesk, which all mem-
bers of the W&L community
can appreciate.

The HelpDesk is not re-
sponsible for the error of the
computer owners, either.
“We may not be able to help
students that do not follow
the guidelines we provide,”
Heslinga cautioned.

Still, the staff does every-

an

Several members of the UC staﬂ
myself included, are on call 24
hours a day in the event of a server
crash to wake up, come in, and
restore things as quickly as we can.

- Cliﬁ’Woolley

77

3 thing possible to perfonn a service to the computer-impaired.
like UC and the HelpDesk aren’t doing their jobs.” Woolley acknowledged that nobody is perfect, and that mem- can’t be solved, but more often you get the satisfaction
But crashes are something that can’t be predicted, bers of the HelpDesk have been wrong in the past, but that of helping someone successfully.”
and Woolley said that the HelpDesk and University the service overall is a comprehensive and great one. So that is the University Computing HelpDesk: no
Computing employees do everything they can to ﬁx “We attempt to always have the phone answered when longer a ghostly entity lurking behind the computer
i problems when they arise. the ofﬁce is open, and there are always multiple people on failures on Campus, but a friendly and helpful staff of

“Several members of the UC staff, myself included,
are on call 24 hours a day in the event of a server crash
_ I . to wake up, come in, and restore things as quickly as
 ‘ ' '  we can,” he said. “There’s an automated monitoring

IN-I-ERVARSI-I-Y '3 one 0fW&L»s Ch”-S“-an gmupS_ The device that pages the staff within ﬁﬁeen minutes of

Workbench provides information on the group. Pm)‘/r) any server g°l"g d°wr_" , _ _ _ .
CWRHW 0,, CHRIWNA JULIAN Thewhole production is beginning to look a little

duty so that at least one person can be in the ofﬁce all the
time,” he said.

is the HelpDesk doing itsjob? lt certainly seems to be.
While it used to take employees two weeks to repair and
return students’ computers, tum-around time is now a
matter of days. lf_a visitor were to sit and observe the
HelpDesk in action for an evening, he would see a handful

students. Crashes will happen, but the HelpDesk will
try to ﬁx them.

“The only sure-ﬁre way to make sure that no coin-
puter on this campus ever crashed would be to turn off
the electricity on campus," said Klotz. “ln l‘CZllli}", we
have University Computing and the University
Computin’ HelpDesk.”

 

...,..2.¢..a;,c~....n-on»...-,..

“Y

 

    

AHEAD

Tuesday
Baseball —
Lynchburg

3:00 p.m., Smith Field

Men’s Tennis—
at Roanoke, 3:00 p.m.
at E. Mennonite, 3 :00 p.m.

Wednesday
Women’s Tennis -
Sweet Briar

4:00 p.m., Lower Courts

Thursday
Women’s Lacrosse —
at Hollins, 4:30 p.m.

Women’s Tennis —
Randolph-Macon
3:30 p.m., Lower Courts

Fﬁday

Women’s Tennis —
Kenyon

3:30 p.m., Lower Courts

Saturday
Women’s Lacrosse -—
at Bridgewater, 1:00 p.m.

Women’s Tennis ~
Colgate
3:00 p.m., Lower Courts

Men’s Tennis —
at Hampden-Syd., 1 1 :00 am.

Baseball —
Va. Wesleyan (DH)
1:00 p.m., Smith Field

M & W Track —
W&L Invitational, all day

Sunday

Men’s Lacrosse —
Gettysburg

1:00 p.m., Wilson Field

Women’s Lacrosse ——
at Frank. & Marshall, noon

Women’s Tennis —

Va. Wesleyan (SS)

2:00 p.m., Lower Courts
at E. Mennonite, 2:00 p.m.

March 19-21
Men’s Swimming —
at NCAA Div. III
Championships

ExBamvEE3rroR

PAGE 4
RES u LTS
Men’s Lacrosse (3-1) W , I
Wed.: W&L 10 omen S ax
Lynchbmg 6
I
Sat.: Cortland'St. 12 2 "0  h I n d
W&L ll 3
womenmosse young attack
(2-0) ’
Wed.: Guilford 3 BY JASON ZACHER
W&L 17
For the women’s lacrosse team, there is no place like home.
Sat’: Denison 10 The team extended its home winning streak to nine
games with a 14-10 win over Demson and 17-3 win over
W&L 14 Guilford last week. The team was led by two players who
were not even around when the streak began.
Baseball Sophomore Katherine Riddle lit up the Denison de-
M _ W V T h fense with ﬁve goals on Saturday, and Freshman Liz Borges
On“ ' a‘ ec scored ﬁve goals and added an assist in her ﬁrst intercol-
W&L ppd. legiate game on Wednesday against Guilford.
“Riddle and Borges are doing really well on attack,”
Thm._: Bridgewater 5 senior captain Lorraine Taurassi said. “lt’s great to have
W &L 2 fresh faces that can get the Job so early.
“I don’t think I stood out,” Riddle said. “I didn’t do
anything the rest of the team didn’t do.”
Slmi Wash & Jeff Against Denison, the Generals scored ﬁrst and jumped
W&L (DH) ppd, out to a 3-1 lead. Denison kept the game close and only
trailed 6-5 in the waning monents of the first half, but se-
’ _ nior Emily Gipson scored one of her three goals with only
Men $1-enms (24) two seconds left in the half extend W&L’s lead to 7-5.
_ . The beginning of the second half belonged to W&L.
Wed" Gmlford 0 During the first 13 minutes, Denison was outscored 7-1 as
W&L 7 the Generals put the game out of reach by building a 14-6
lead. Denison scored sporadically through the rest of the
Women’s Tennis (2.2) second half, and closed the score to 14-10 by the end of
the game.
Wed.: R-MWC 0 “Overall, we played a really good game, even though
W&L 9 we shut down a little at the end,” senior captain Lorraine
Taurassi said.
Leading the Generals were Riddle with ﬁve goals,
W&L 9 G’ d T ' h d h 1 h d B
Hollins 0 rpson an aurassi a t ree goa s eac an orgess,

seniors Betsy Howe and Whitney Parker added one
goal each. Sophomore goalkeeper Ginny Jemigan made
13 saves.

On Wednesday, the Generals opened their season
with an impressive 17-3 win over Guilford. Borgess
scored ﬁve goals, all in the ﬁrst half, as W&L opened a

sports

MARCH 9, 1998

JASON ZACHER / EXECUTIVE EDITOR

GET OUT OF MY WAY. Senior Whitney Parker beats two Guilford players for the ball in the first
half of W&L ’s 17-3 victory Wednesday. Senior Betsy Howe looks on after taking the draw.

12-0 lead by halftime.

Ten different women scored for the Generals, and Riddle,
Taurassi and Parker each added two goals. Howe, Gipson,
juniors Lauren Francis and Cory Metee and freshmen
Caroline Gee and Ellen Ritsch each added one goal.

“We all have a lot to work on, but we have such a great
team this year,” Riddle said. “We are deﬁnitely starting on
the right foot.”

“Things are coming together very smoothly,”
Taurassi added.

The women go on a three-game road trip this week,
playing ODAC opponents Hollins on Thursday and
Bridgewater on Saturday before heading to Franklin &
Marshal on Saturday.

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

Sporas Warm

They say that baseball is the
game of inches, but the Washing-
ton & Lee men’s lacrosse team might
argue that statement after yesterday
aftemoon’s heartbreaking 12-11 loss
to Cortland State.

The Generals suffered an early sea-
son blow to their NCAA tournament
hopes when a last—second shot, which
would have tied the game for the Gen-
erals, bounced off the crossbar.

The game was played on the Uni-
versity of Virginia’s artiﬁcial turf ﬁeld
in Charlottesville due to the poor
conditions of a rain-soaked Wilson
Field. The 17th ranked Red Drag-
ons improved to 1-0 while the loss
dropped ninth ranked W&L to 3-1.

“It was obviously a tough loss,”
said freshman Pope Hackney, who
led the Generals with three goals.
“We lost to a team that we thought
we were better than.”

Cortland State took control early on
and extended their lead to 8-5 midway
through the third quarter before the
Generals came roaring back and scored
three staight goals to tie the game 8-8

HELP WANTEDT

Men/Women ear $375 weekly
processing/ assembling Medical l.D.
Cards at home. Immediate
openings, your local area.
Experience unnecessary, will train.
Call Medicard 1-541 -38605290 Ext.

going into the ﬁnal quarter.

In the fourth quarter, the Drag-
ons scored three straight goals of
their own after freshman Chris Dailey
found the back of the net and ex-

tendedthe Cortland_State lead to 1 1-
8 with 6:30 left in regulation. W&L
freshman Pope Hackney cut the
lead to 11-10, scoring two goals in
less than a minute but Cortland
State freshman Jim Cianfracca
scored his fourth goal of the game
to give the Dragons at 12-10 lead.

W&L once again rallied and
trimmed the lead back to one after
freshman attacker Matt Dugan made
it a 12-1 1 game. In the final minute of
the game, W&L had two golden
chances to send the game into over-
time, but Cortland goalie George
Breers came up with a huge save be-
fore the Generals’ ﬁnal shot hit the
crossbar with one second to play.
Breers came up big for the Dragon and
had 16 saves as Cortland outshot the
Generals 50-25.

 

Men’s lax suffers early season
loss at hands of Cortland St.

Cianfraccapaced Cortland 

‘four goals. Hiackneyihad three goals

and classmate Dugan added two
goals and two assists for the Gener-
als. The Generals also had trouble
taking advantage of extra-man
oppurtunities — only going one for
seven in those situations.

“There’s a long way to go,” said
Hackney. “ It will be interesting to see
how we respond from this setback.”

Senior captain Chip Thompson
is disappointed with the team’s per-
formance so far this season.

“The team as a whole, during that
game, and so far this season, is not
displaying the level of intensity that
we should,” he said. “We still have
three quarters of a season left, and
if we start displaying that intensity,
we’ll put a good run on.”

 

I DO NEXT?

ATTENTION COLLEGE SENIORS: WHAT DO

Be a live—in nanny for UVA professors’ family for
one year, starting August 1. Regular weekday
schedule, generous salary, paid vacations and
holidays, health insurance, free room and board,
own spacious living quarters (with bathroom and
seperate entrance), all utilities, summer pool
membership, privacy, respect. Non—smokers, good
drivers, college graduates or students only.

Call 804-924-7815 or e-mail aw2b@virginia.edu.

nu--nu-u.

 

GIFT SHOPPE

13 South Main St.
(540)464-8888
Lexington, VA 24450

Chi Omega

Kappa Delta
Kappa Alpha Theta

Kappa Kappa Gamma
Pi Beta Phi

We Have the Handkerchiefs
You Need for your Sorority
Initiation
Also See Our Large Selection
of Miniature Boxes

 

Go to grad school and avoid the inevitabilit-

   

 

 
     
   
     
    
 
 
  

1 . . . W
Ihave been told that there is life after college. l’m seen, most graduate schools won’t even consider me leges and universities, education is where I Wztlll. to be. 

not sure that I believe it but ‘ust in case I’m consid- unless I raise in GPA above a 4.66. a ly to nearly every academic institulioii this f~'.i(lC oftlic :1

9 SJ 3 y  yr

ering my options. In addition, some programs have special requirements. sun. Ifl am lucky, I will be accepted at one of I.li<:in. I will 

, What will I do the day after I graduate? The possi- Ifl want to study English, for example, I’ll have be able spend the rest of my life reaping the bcncl‘ii<. wt‘ Ii  :.t:itii~. ;

‘i " bilities seem endless. Icould take the noble route and to recite “As I Lay Dying” backwards while arguing in nery and e—mail. 
 5 _ MAR. 9  join the Peace Corps for a year or two. I could take sign language that this is how Faulkner intended his book r Ifl decide instead that I would ratliei‘ciit<:i the worl:I‘or-tc 

’ the European route and travel. I could take the “I’m to be read. Ifl want to study math, my chances ofbeing right after graduation, thereby skipping gizul srrliool ﬂltv 

Not Leaving” route and apply for ajob in the Admis- accepted are better ifl prove at least 17 different theo- gether, I still have to worry about being ar;r.:cpt:.:z.l some 

‘ sions Office. I could dojust about anything. rems in the next year and a half, and name them all after where. I will spend my senior year wearing tics ever} da; 1

I H S rk A , obscure mathematicians with long, Germanic names. Or in the off-chance that a recruiter will SlltlLiDI1l\ ‘~;~;w:a.*' ll’: ‘.4
   S ) ed  ROW at least the requirements seem that tough. the Co-op. I will miss class, parties, l)ll'll‘i'.lEI_\l~'. l.i»li<ii:3s;E

f  d‘ h    Ifl am accepted to grad school, I will Spend the next and graduation to travel like the loads from IIIICI“. im to 

Or e   e s_ David Balsley '99 three years working on academics I69 hours a week. interview. When no ones around, I will pimtiti: Ill)’ I1I;\‘\'i:

it ' My professors will explain the secrets behind life’s great Work Force Sense of Humor. 
It used to be that at wasihgtoh and Lee, one When I’m done with all that, however, it seems as mysteries, including (but not limited to) trigonometry, Ifl land ajob, I will getanew car, a[’)Zlll‘llil"Hl \‘-.71-Ir-(ll’.'iriM,‘ 

. . ’ « ' ' r’ ' ' 2 1, 2 ‘I r./sji 3.‘.

could really beiwe m the Honor System. Re_ though I m bound for one of two places. the Real beer commercials and the Levi Company s insane urge and a hefty bill to accompany then. nl.  in ..I7llI <  

\ 1 h .t h b d World and ajob, or graduate school. Each has its own to rivet all oftheir clothing together. My work will cul— graduate student, who manages to llVC tilt at I « «.;~n:.- .1:
cent y’ Oweverf I _ as_ ecome mofesan more advantages and disadvantages. minate in apaper that I will defend against rabid ludites, week, I’m earning money. I’ll spend :1 lot oi‘ vim: in OYE:

( Chfﬁeuh to put fahhm thls Sacred tradh1oh- Why? If I decide to continue my studies in graduate who, once conquered, will reward me with a diploma around the bar scene. ;3
Because it’s not working. i - school, the first hurdle I face is actually getting into a and a hefty bill. Personally, I would rather go to grad sr.:lw~.o‘ i«~- mi mii.r 

In the last week alone’ over one hundred do]- graduate school. From the posters and pamphlets I’ve I decide that, having spent nearly a decade in col— that GPA  

lars was stolen out of the Graham-Lees dorm ' _ - - . 

“ rooms, and laundry stolen from the basement  S S d  _ fl
laundry room. g 1 5 Mlnutes Of Shame if:

, Now some may say that it is partly the fault of I _ . _ 
r \ ‘he“”‘‘°‘‘*‘“‘”‘*‘°‘‘*‘°“‘’"‘“‘“‘‘“‘°“°’ Oi IC V9 50 T H E 7’ T 2: LL ME “ (5 we me A (i',.4«{3--7".7‘:wfv’ 
. stolen. But in speaking to these people, differ- _ A N D 3: 5 Ass, Mr H (r r. 
. r *_

ent perspective arises. The money stolen was I OK 6 IV E ME D ll r
not lying out. It was taken out of a closed desk t I 5
drawer. Another person’s money was stolen out  n    E V E N  O F6 SS0 R

of a closed wallet in a zipped purse. The laun-

dry stolen has often been missing between the
time the dryer stops and the ten minutes it takes

’TH£lR. Ass) T>‘~‘t’*"iI
FANCY is/Less :.i’-tiered
How CA/\l \/that

Switzerland hands out free heroin to heroin addicts.
Now, don’t go shouting thatfrom every rooﬁop, be-

  

    

_ _ cause if President Clinton and Newt Gingrich get wind V - s 
for the Person to go oowh the four fhghts ofstahe of it, they’ll probably move to decertify Switzerland E /Q D - -I § A 7/]  To  O A K“  
to fold it. as a cooperating country in the fight against drugs, (9 S S ,6 by £)(Pﬁ(/er r  A [Us rig is  _. .. :
THI -
In the past, many have blamed the 5o-ea11ed then ban. the import of Swiss chocolate and watches N 7 I N 0 _ er s rs  s
“townies” for some of the theﬁs. But there is no ‘° A{:r‘°"t°r:"rSner::r°“5?” “r‘(°“€:‘:sr():(::r‘:t;'rr"is“;}:‘tlS;‘:§)::‘ TOO - s I D R U N KQN   V is  * 
. wou ra e e 0 us ne 1 - ,_ .  ,. ig I
wayfshat allrsgf the trhfhﬁs foulhcﬁnbe c:mmm_edbt_)y ment in Switzerland. Why? Because it’s working.  D  PU N ' _  DA’ H i’ ' 
outsi ers. one o e res an orms 1S ig  -m‘ To (/05E aw (s L) p it 4,1 ~.‘:
enough that strange, un-student looking people ' ,1,  3 Bar Stool ‘TRYING A D i WA WA 1; V ,1. \ wt 
. . ;. i; . ’, ‘ti 2 -‘W X’ .-
would not be noticed roarmng through the halls,  ‘c Swensen ’98 CROW D, M T H’! NC: .s ‘r 7 ,r 
- - - ' "he ———————-———————- QM " I Soeif’ f’ _ < ,. »_,j
gokinlgsetilelr hgads lln ro0n11§Wh.ere arty Otzlvlously Between 1994 and 1997, as reported in the Wash— Fe O L O 6; S E I7 S s . ,r 
on t ohg- eop e wou h°t1ce' car ‘access ington Post, the government of Switzerland identi- j Qgl S   Q i R \\ LU H’  ﬁt C’ *
3YStem was Put oh the door to the Gm-ham'Lee5 ﬂed 1,146 heroin addicts for whom traditional meth-    F 5 . ,5) « = --2
laundry room for this reason. No signiﬁcant ods oftreatmenthad failed. Forthese addicts and these D _ . 47+ ( S Werif‘  V " ’ r
numbci-of outsiders could possibly be riding in on addicts only, injections of pure heroin were provided Dr FFE  N T A8 00 s s , 5 #0 LL   V  f). r
- - three times a day at treatment centers around Switzer- ' .3’ [NY
the coattails of students entering the dorms. And _ _ I S “@436 .. , . 4, 4- ,.i
. . . land, along with counseling.  (/L.  r . s ,  T 7/!   ti i , I
once the Outslders are ruled out as S1gmﬁcamsuS- The results were overwhelmingly positive. Before .. -.  ’ , .  . 
Peetss that old)’ 1eaVe5s Well» 1h51oe,F3- beginning the program, 59 percent of the addicts were N O D - . ‘ _ ' ’ 1 Ce   ‘f
The Honor. System is becoming a thief’s criminals of some sort. Since their heroin was now A» i i \ I  r , ._ M;
dream. Because such a big deal is made out of free, elim_ina_1ting th_€ {Iced t0 Pay high brlack-market 1’ “CL” A UN I ’ “*~~\(‘’4“0”'    P
the traditions people trust in it’ making it much prices, criminal activity among the addicts dropped TH 03 C \,  st}  

to 10 percent. Also, many addicts found mainstream

easier for the dishonorable on campus to operate J. ob s and homes Homelessness among the addicts .EDiiToK ~ .  ;_ ti,  ‘i .r=-r<r .‘
1h 3 homthreatehlhg atmosphere People heed dropped from 12 percent to almost zero. The rate of E 
to realize that the Honor System isn’t what it used HIV and hepatitis and skin infections fell, and the death A R’ Mr Ur Q r s 1:
to be Things are getting st01cn_ 30 Wake up rate dropped by half. Some addicts even sought con- [6 HT ‘
~ - ’ ' 1 b t’ tr t t {L ' “
start locking your door, and don’t believe any- "e"”‘?”a 3 5:"‘°"°° ea me“ ‘ -1
h . . h s s 11 th s sh Of course, Switzerland’s program is not working _- .. .1:
one W 0 IS nalve enoug 0 e yo? a se in the traditional American sense. We view the drug
Honor System really works. Because it doesn t. pmbiem as a war, as an enemy whose scourge must
be wiped off the face of the earth at any cost. The
g g Swiss seem to acknowledge that the best that we can
i do is mitigate the harmful effects of having addicts in
 Of   society. The difference between Switzerland’s drug

problem and the one in the U.S. is this: Theirs is
grounded in reality.

Drugs have been around since ancient times, and
while their names, types, and forms may have changed,
human nature has not. Just as Adam was tempted by
the forbidden fruit, some human beings will always
_ Senior referring to his pepper at give into temptation and seek the easy fix, the escape,

_ the pleasure that drugs provide. Human nature cannot
dmher before Fancy DreSS- be changed by legislation, but its worst side effects
7 9 can be lessened. We need to treat drug addicts as sick
people who need help, not as criminals who need to
_ be locked away.

ml] 3. _ ‘ah. The beneﬁts will accrue not only to drug addicts,
B ‘l   I as the Switzerland study shows, but to society as a
whole. 85 percent of drug addicts in this country com-

It’s not polite to spn'nkle your date.

Executive Editors Courtney Miller

Jason Zach“. mit some kind of crime, often, as the Switzerland ex-
Managing Editor Kath nMa urnik eriment shows, to pay for dru s. Intravenous dru
_ _ I’! _y P _ S 8
A55°¢'“’€ 54110’ Andrcﬁ Ewing users are the leading cause in the spread of HIV. If we
News Edimr Wm Harare treat the addicts as people, not as menaces, and, in
M ,,,&1,fe ;;d,-,,,,_, U, mm, exchange, encourage them to seek some fonri of help,
Tarah Gram whether it is heroin maintenance, methadone (a syn-
0Pi"i0"&Edi'0"'a/Edffor Ffﬁnces Groberg thetic opium which removes the craving for heroin)
spom Edllor Job" S'°l"" or traditional drug treatment, we can reduce crime and
Last WordEdiror Polly Doig _ _ _
Capygd,-,0, win Hmiie make this country a healthier, safer place to live.
Photo Editor Hollister Hpvey I’m not suggesting we hand out heroin (or any other
OW"? 54"" T0"! W*|d'°W drugs) like juice and cookies at a nursery school. I

don’t know if Switzerland’s plan would work on a
larger scale here in America. What we do need is a
plan that treats drug addiction as a health problem.
‘ -- V It’s a realistic solution. It’s also the best solution for
I_ The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the dealing with drug addiction and the numerous prob-
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee [ems it causes addicts and sccicty_
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding forthe Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and

subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee  __ _  _ I '
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and    r,€"“; ,7"
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise Em.» 9 -..—"'1. ‘m--«-‘ J.»  c What was the craziest thing that happened to you on FD W<?.':l-=.!‘ii.tl‘.9

Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
g Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
‘ Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center

 

  

         

_v  Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450 ' i l ' “-».,_s
Tl : - “ ' ' ' - es - » V ..
6 <;Phf>n§4(()5‘*406)2‘:<;>(2)5‘::)060 Looking for a hiking trail, the I enjoyed Mark Granger s break- “I was the ﬁrsr w&L Guy to rake a ..NO Commem
3”" ( ) brakes on my friend’s car went out ” dancing exhibition” ~ ~~ D
/ E~mail: phi@wlu.edu ' VMl girl.

1 — Warren Hedges ’00 —- Matt Klimas ‘O0 -“Drew Heron '98 iii,  , . a- , in.

 

 

PAGE 6

Alex’s b to, S

Auzx OlRlsll~:NsEN
PHI MOVIE Ozrnc

ell, folks, it’s about two weeks until the Os-

Wcars (you can watch them on ABC March
23 — please, no wagering), and l’ll tell you
the winners now: Best Supporting Actor will be Burt
Reynolds for “Boogie Nights,” Supporting Actress will
be Gloria Stuart for “Titanic,” Best Actor will be Robert
Duvall for “The Apostle,” Actress will be Helen Hunt
for “As Good As It Gets,” Best Director will be James
Cameron for “Titanic,” Best Original Screenplay will be
Ben Affleck and Matt Damon for “Good Will Hunting,”
Best Adapted Screenplay will be Brian Helgeland and
Curtis Hanson for “LA. Confidential,” and Best Pic-
ture will be “Titanic.” I’m a 100 percent certain, too.
This year’s handicapping was way too easy.

Just because they’re going to win, ofcourse, doesn’t
mean they deserve to. I have my own personal list of
what was the best on screen this year, and it’s more
than a little different.

In the category of Best Supporting Actor, I chose
Samuel L. Jackson for “Jackie Brown.” He has won
several film festival awards for Best Actor for his role
as gun—runner Ordell Robbie, but I think that,just as he
really belonged in the Best Actor category for “Pulp

Fiction,” he really belongs in the Best Supporting Ac-

  

Colorlnade Club



MARCH 9, 1998

JC and WOVSL flicks

tor category for this one. Jackson’s portrayal of a man
on the verge of scoring big or going bust, constantly
checking out all the angles the best way he knows how,
blows all of the Oscar nominees out of the water (ex-
cept for Robert Forster, also from “Jackie Brown,” who
really belongs in the Best Actor category). My run-
ners-up are Robert De Niro for “Wag the Dog,” Robin
Williams for “Good Will Hunting,” Kevin Spacey for
“LA. Confidential,” and Matt Malloy for “In the Com-
pany of Men.”

For Best Supporting Actress, Gloria Stuart is the
overwhelming sentimental favorite. A former silent-
film star who makes a big impression in “Titanic,” she
is unbeatable, but there were many more notable per-
formances this year. My choice to win would be Alison
Elliott, who plays a serenely doomed heiress in Iain
Softley’s quite good “The Wings ofthe Dove.” Elliott,
who happens to.1ook a lot like Jodie Foster’s little sis-
ter, steals the show from putative star and undeserving
Best Actress nominee Helena Bonham Carter, who
couldn’t act her way out of a paper bag, but manages
not to ruin the ﬁlm. Other worthy performances, in
order: Minnie Driver for “Good Will Hunting,” Heather
Graham for “Boogie Nights,” Bridget Fonda for “Jackie
Brown,” and Christina Ricci for “The Ice Storm.”

Best Actor is atough call this year. There were more

than a dozen great performances that I saw. None,
however, topped Robert Duvall’s loud, raucous, con-
tradictory Holiness preacher in his film “The
Apostle.” This is the first time I have seen a reli-
gious character who isn’t either an unbelievable saint
or a blatant hypocrite. Sonny isn’t a perfect man,
but he loves God and believes in God, and, for him,
that’s everything. My runners-up are Sean Penn for
his sweetly lost maniac in “She’s So Lovely,” Chris-
topher Guest for “Waiting for Guffman,” Philip Baker
Hall for “Hard Eight,” and Peter Fonda for “Ulee’s
Gold.”
Best Actress
was a sparse
category this
year, almost as
sparse as Best
Actor was
crowded. Four
of the Oscar
nominees are
British, and so
they won’t win
over America’s
s w e e t h e a rt,
Helen Hunt.
The Academy
went out of its
way to ignore
some other great American performances, though.
My pick for Best Actress is Pam Grier for “Jackie
Brown.” She got a great part and showed she was
worth it. Not only beautiful and hard-boiled, Grier
can be tender, and vulnerable yet tough, and she
has a charm and sense of timing that light up the
screen. Her kiss with Robert Forster was a religious
experience. Runners-up are Stacy Edwards as the
deaf secretary in “In the Company of Men,” Robin
Wright Penn for “She’s So Lovely,” Julie Christie for
“Afterglow,” and Kim Basinger for “LA. Confiden-
tial,” who was nominated in the Supporting Actress
category but belongs here.

I don’t like to separate Best Director, Picture, and
Screenplay categories — I really don’t think they
can be judged separately — so let’s go ahead and
give them all to Quentin Tarantino and “Jackie
Brown.” The director’s third film is a gem ofa caper
with sex, drugs, soul music, and plenty of action and
humor. An incredible cast and attention to detail
make it worth watching more than twice. Robert
Forster’s Oscar-nominated performance is the come-
back of the year, if not the decade. The guy’s John
Wayne.

“Jackie Brown” was adapted from Elmore
Leonard’s “Rum Punch,” so that leaves Best Origi-
nal Screenplay unawarded. Woody Allen gets it for
“Deconstructing Harry,_” a Bergman-esque romp
through the travails of novelist Harry Block, which
delivers deep, solid, prolonged laughs, plenty of
wonderful eccentricity, and a cosmic message which
isn’t new, but is as true as it ever was.

Along with Bests come Worsts. My pick for

$1337

Worst Supporting Actor is Matthew McConnaughey
for his stunningly similar and dull work in “Contact”
and “Amistad.” Sure, he looks like the love child of
Paul Newman and Marlon Brando, but the promise
he showed in “A Time to Kill” has gone largely un-
fulfilled, at least so far. Worst Supporting Actress
honors go to Julia Louis-Dreyfus for “Father’s Day.”
I can’t figure out why she was there. Worst Actor
this year is Nicholas Cage for “Con Air.” It was not
a good movie and his corny hamming it up and lousy
Southern accent were some reasons why. Worst Ac-

Courtesy Miramax Films
Pam Grier, Christensen ’s pick for Best Actress, stars as the title character in Quentin
Tarantino ’s movie “Jackie Brown. "

tress goes to Kate Winslet for “Titanic.” I kept hop-
ing she would wake up, but she just sat there like a
lump on the screen, with a sort of dewy incompre-
hension on her face. Maybe it was the LSD some-
body slipped into the catered food (this really hap-
pened). Worst Director and Picture go to David
Cronenberg and “Crash.” There were a few interest-
ing things going on, but then there would be long,
boring, depressing love scenes which Cronenberg
complained critics didn’t recognize as actually con-
stituting the plot and action. So maybe Ijust didn’t
get it. But I think I did, and I think it bit. Other
notable flops: “Dead Men Can’t Dance” (don’t ask
why I watched that), “Con Air,” “Gentlemen Don’t
Eat Poets” (a.k.a. “Grave Indiscretion”), and the
abominable “One Eight Seven.” “Amistad” has to
take a hit in this category, too. It’s the worst ﬁlm to
which, I gave a thumbs-up this year. For some rea-
son, Steven Spielberg decided not to translate what
the captive slaves, the heroes of the film, have to
say at what seem like vital moments in the film. An
otherwise quite passable ﬁlm becomes an exercise
in frustration as we understand less and less well
the motivations and feelings ofthe main characters.
It’s an inexplicable and unforgivable mistake in judg-
ment on Spielberg’s part.

The unfairly pummeled of I997: the actually quite
good “The Devil’s Own,” “Air Force One,” “Abso-
lute Power,” “Nothing to Lose,” “Speed 2: Cruise Con-
trol,” “Fierce Creatures,” “The Lost World: Jurassic
Park,” “Air Bud,” “Picture Perfect” and “Steel.” Give
‘em a try sometime. I’m not saying they’re masterpieces,
but they’re better than “Amistad.”

See ya at the matinee.

S€V€l'l

MONDAY $ 8:00 p.m. Lecture: “German Ex-
iles in Hollywood: Trouble in Paradise,”
Wulf Koepke, Northen Auditorium. #14 TUES
DAY #14 3:00 p.m. Baseball vs. Lynchburg,
Smith Field. 1% 7:30 p.m. “Democracy and
Environmental Problem Solving: The View
From Quincy Library,” Mark Sagoff,
Northen Auditorium. 1% Shepherd Poverty
Lecture: “Racial Intergroup Disparity: Eco-

 
 

nomic Theory and Social Evidence,” William
Darity, C-School 327. ¢I¢ WEDNESDAY $14 4:00
p.m. Women’s Tennis vs. Sweet Briar, Varsity
Courts.” #15 7:30 p.m. State of the Discipline
Series: “Reading Pictures: Objects, Texts, and
Academic Angst,” Professor George Bent,
Northen Auditorium. it Staple Mixer at Phi Psi
¢I¢ THURSDAY $14 ALL DAY: Phi Beta Kappa
Convocation — adjusted class schedule. #1:
12:15 p.m. “To Climb the Highest Mountain,”
Hugh David Young, Lee Chapel. 3% 3:30 p.m.
Women’s Tennis vs. Randolph Macon/
Ashland, Varsity Courts. =I¢ 4:00 p.m. Math
Colloquium: “Mathematical Applications to
Economic Theory,” John Turner ’95, Robinson
Hall 6. 51¢ 8:00 p.m. Lenfest Series: Aquila
(Birds) Lenfest Center. 34% FRIDAY at: 7-10 a.m.
25th Annual Institute on the Ethics of J ournal—
ism. ¢I¢ ALL DAY: Cholesterol Screening, open

to W&L community, University Center 108.
¢I¢ 3:30 p.m. Math Colloquium: “The Actu-
arial Profession — Using Your Mathematical
Ability in Your Career,” Stephen T.
McElhaney ’67, Robinson Hall 6. 3&4? Women’s
Tennis vs. Kenyon, Varsity Courts. 35¢ 4:30

p.m. “Journalism and the Egalitarian Soci-
ety,” Maxwell King, C-School 327. #14 7:30
p.m. Film Society presents “Eve’s Bayou” at
the Troubadour. #3? 8:00  FRIDAYS! pre-
sents comedian Todd Parker at the GHQ. =>I¢
SATURDAY 31¢ ALL DAY: W&L Track Invita-
tional :1: 12:00 p.m. Baseball vs’. Virginia
Wesleyan, Smith Field. 5?: 3:00 p.m. Women’s
Tennis vs. Colgate, Varsity Courts. 31 7:30 p.m.
Film Society presents “Eve’s Bayou” by Kasi
Lemmons, Troubadour Cinema. 91¢ 8:00 p.m.
Lenfest Series: Julius Caesar. Lenfest Center.
#1:: 2:00 a.m. “Rave” at SAE. =>I¢

 

By Hollister Hovey .

 

  
 
  

 
 

 
 
  

azaeecvee A
t7eo6ueM

l JWT KAN Oi/I’
013 Hawaii ‘4
Tlhz WlFE’9
NUT NEA?-U1
I71?-Ul\1lL El\l0U(’H
T7791/ﬂ?—E.
LAN vlou
9?0rMe7.

 

pi

 

 
   
 
    
   
 
  
    

.;AM.I:-e  I.r:YI3m~ uaum

~‘”‘l.3.HINt37‘r)N 3, rgﬁ
- » ‘ _ - UMVH%s§‘ny
‘ EXINQI QM, VA

"AR 2 4 19:,

Men’s lacrosse posts

   
  

 

The P121‘ wants to know what
students think about printing
the names of students
arrested for a DUI. Read the
editorial and respond to:
pl1i@wlu.edu

Students may have an
an important
overtime 8-7 victory
against the

Gettysburg Bullets.
PAGE 4
Monday

U11 ‘tiling-tum hi   

aster plan to
solve multiple
campus needs

BY JASON ZACHER

4 LL -easier time Winning a

pub in Ireland than

getting Dave Matthews
Band tickets.

..|
«
l-

l l 
ll!

U)
I-
M
O
D.
(D

   

PAGE 5

Bulk Rare
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

T

Washington and Lee University
«VOLUME 100, NUMBER 17

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s rash of construction and renovation is not over yet.
The University still has more than $53 million worth more to complete.

With the ﬁnal approval of the ﬁve-year plan by the Board of Trustees, W&L
took the first step toward making many rumors reality. The proposals in the
ﬁve-year plan include a parking garage, sorority housing, a new art and music
building, improvements to athletic facilities and a University commons. Uni-
versity officials are hoping that the sorority houses and the parking garage can
be completed by the fall of 2000.

W&L officials went before the Lexington City Planning Commission on
Thursday night to receive a ﬁnal approval for the structures. A decision from
the city is expected sometime in early May.

“The University has worked from the start with cooperation from the city,”
said David Howison, dean of students. “There has been support from the city.

While W&L is exempt from standard zoning by the city, the University must
still go through the city for approval of construction projects.

The specifics of many of the capital improvements are still being ﬁnalized,
but the basic plans have been decided.

Art & Music: A $15.4 million art and music facility will be built between the
Warner Center and the Lenfest Center. The art department will receive a 35,000
sq. ft. facility that includes studios and galleries. A 31,400 sq. ft. area will be
dedicated to the music department, including a 200-seat recital hall. DuPont
hall will be renovated for administrative ofﬁces.

“The art and music building is a high priority,” Howison said. “At a liberal
arts university, there should be first-rate facilities for the arts.”

Even though current music and art students will not benefit from the new
facilities, there is excitement about the proposal.

_ _“_It’s deﬁnitely needed. M We need to grow as a department,” said Josh Harvey,
ajunior music major. “The composition department needs to be updated and
expanded, and Lenfest is amazing, but it will be better to have a small recital
auditorium.

University Commons: Plans for a 90,000 sq. ft. commons are still being
made, but it will probably be located on the existing Warner Center parking lot
near Graham-Lees Dorm. Some of the ideas being considered for inclusion in
the commons include: meeting rooms, the bookstore, a post office, recreation

QSEEPLANPAGEZ

IFC to put cork in
hard liquor bottle

H01.L1srER HOVEY/PHOID EDITOR
Monday Night Raw, Monday Ni-
tro and Thursday Thunder
every Saturday morning on
Channel 2 and WLUR.

NWA BUENA VISTA STYLE 

David Jerico (standing) prepares wrestling match in Buena Vista on
to put “The Lady Killer” into a Saturday night.
‘I ﬁgure four leg lock at an N WA Former WWF and WC W member

Greg “The Hammer" Valentine and Ax
of WWF fought in the title bout.

Wrestling fans can tune into Steve
Purrell '5 wrestling commentary about

A few good candidates

Wanted

BY COURTNEY MILLER
*  EXECUﬁ\E EDITOR

When the class of 2001 head
to the polls next Monday, they

Exceeding occupancy limits threatens safety of students

Popular bands draw big
crowds to frat basements

containing the ﬂood and pulling the plug on the band’s

won’t just be electing two Execu-
tive Committee representatives.
The individual with the most
votes will also replace the class’
current EC representative, who
left school due to chronic fatigue.
‘ Tyler Jorgensen, the current
Freshmen EC representative, re-
turned to his home town of
Houston, Texas, on Saturday
 March 9.
‘ He is not expected to return.
“I believe he is out indeﬁ-
nitely, which means there is a
good possibility he won’t be
here during the spring term,” said
Chris Baldwin, EC vice-president.
Petitions for class EC repre-
sentatives, presidents, vice-
presidents and Student Judicial
4 Council members are now avail-
able in front of Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center.
The petitions must be re-

,’ CDSEE VOTE PAGE 2

BY ERIC SWENSEN

STAFF WRITER
he Breakfast Club, a popular 1980s cover band,
often packs the basements of Washington and
Lee’s fraternity houses. At times the crowd be-

comes so dense students have little or no room to move.

When do these crowds become dangerous? Can there

be too many people in a fraternity basement?

Students were packed tightly enough on Jan. 23, for
students attending a Chi Psi band party to crowd surf.
One of the crowd surfers, an unidentified W&L male,
grabbed an exposed pipe along Chi Psi’s ceiling and

equipment. While some students panicked and
screamed, there was no stampede of students to the
exits, and no one was injured.*

But the problems presented at Chi Psi that night lead
to an interested question: When is a party too big, cre-
ating a dangerous situation for students out only for a
good time?

Most public places, like arenas, clubs and even
schools, have occupancy limits which are determined
asa buildings is designed to ensure a safe and speedy
evacuation in case of a ﬁre of other emergency.

 

pulled it down.
two inches of water.
Berland said.

the plug immediately.

said Berland.

Stagnant, dirty water, which had apparantly been in
the pipe since the mid-’70s, ﬂooded the basement with

“Everyone panicked and screamed, probably because
there were so many drunk people there,” senior Kelsay

The most immediate danger was the electric current
from the band’s equipment. Fortunately, the band pulled

“I’m just surprised that no one got electrocuted,”

Fortunately that night, a disaster was averted. Mem-
bers of Chi Psi and the Breakfast club acted quickly,

So what are the occupancy limits for the fratemtiy
party rooms? Not many people know.

In many cities, ﬁre marshals are responsible for de-
termining occupancy limits.

Not in Lexington.

A Lexington ﬁreman, when asked how the city fire
marshal could be reached, said, “Are you kidding?”,
and suggested that the Lexington Building & Zoning
Administration would know.

Eric Schetzler, an employee of the Building & Zon-
ing Administration, said’ that each fraternity house
should have its occupancy limit posted in the base-
merit.

(I)sat~coDIasmc.-.2

. Students experiment at gym pajama party

BY SARH MELDRUM
——--————‘STAr=r WRITER
ome students brought mov-
ies. Others brought food.
I_ Junior Erika Woodson
brought some lab equipment.
“Dr. Wielgus allowed me to steal
his heart — model for the teaching ex-

j ercise!” she said.

' The Washington and Lee students
joined a group of girls from Maury
River Middle School for a lock-in Feb.
27. The slumber party included middle

1 school and college members of Women
in Technology and Science (W.I.T.S.).
W.I.T.S. brings the girls from
Maury River Middle School about
twice a month to run science experi-

7 ments with them.

 

The group was formed through the
efforts ofjunior geology major Erin
Kraal. Kraal wanted to provide
middle school girls with science and
mathematics role models. Kraal or-
ganized the first lab experiment in
the fall of 1996.

The group spent the night in the
gym. “We watched movies, swam, ate
subs and donuts, played volleyball,
got to know each other, and discussed
the pros and cons of Leonardo
DiCaprio,” said Woodson.

The group originally intended to
have a yoga instructor come in, but
she pulled a muscle and instead sent a
video.

Both Doremus Gymnasium and
Warner Center remained open all night

with volleyball, basketball and badmin-
ton nets set up, and the racquetball
courts were also open. A midnight feast
included a six-foot sub and make—your-
own sundae bar. The group also had
use of the swimming pool for an hour.

At eleven o’clock, Woodson ran her
experiment measuring pulse rates. She
gave a brief lecture about how the heart
works and how blood circulates through
it, then they measured their pulse rates.

They did jumping jacks for three min-
utes. “Man, we almost passed out,”
Woodson said.

“I was like, can’t we stop at two?
Some ofthe girls actually stopped. It’s
not every day sixth graders are forced
to do vigorous exercises hours after
their bedtimes.”

Professor of Biology Dr. Wielgus
donated the stethoscopes, stop-
watches and sphygmomanometers
(for blood pressure) the group used
for the experiment.

“Departments have donated ma-
terials and lab space, and individual
professors have donated their time,”
junior Laura Goodwin said. “I think
that Erin is a genius for having come
up with this.”

“The professors are awesome,”
Kraal said. “We are very grateful for
their support. We are also grateful
for the support of Mimi Elrod, who
funds some aspects of the programs
and is always available for advice.”

“I think that when it was over,

(1) SITE xvrrs rm. 2

 After almost a year of
BYOB, the IFC prepares
to vote on another big
change tomorrow night.

BY KATHIE SOROKA
—jj——STAI=r WRITER

The Inter-fraternity Council
hopes to reduce alcohol-related in-
cidents on Tear Night by ofﬁcially
banning hard alcohol.

According to IFC President Ia-
son Callen, the initiative started with
this year’s Bid Night, when two
freshmen went to hospital.

The IFC called an emergency
meeting the next day and decided to
informally ban hard alcohol for the
upcoming Tear Night.

Although Rush is supposed to
be completely dry, Tear Night is not
technically a part of Rush, since the
pledges already have their bids.

“It worked out well. It was a re-
ally quiet Tear Night,” Callen said.
He does not feel the ban on hard
alcohol was the only reason, but that
it was a definite factor.

Former Sigma Phi Epsilon Presi-
dent Glenn Miller had mixed feelings
on the matter.

“I think banning [hard alcohol]
on Tear Night is a good idea, but
I’m afraid everybody might push
their Tear Night activities to a dif-
ferent night,” he said.

Some are skeptical about the
IFC’s ability to enforce such a
policy.

“There are people in the houses
over 21,” said freshman Susan Slim.
“How are they going to stop them?”

Callen responded to such criti-
cisms.

‘‘I’m not naive  lfsome frat mem-
ber really wants to give a pledge
brother a shot. we’re probably not
going to ﬁnd out  But, I do believe

it will be toned down.”

Callen cites the receptiveness of
the fraternity presidents as support.

“If all the frat presidents were op-
posed to the idea, then I’d think
maybe we’d better not try it, but they
were receptive to it. So, I’m opti-
mistic.”

“I think there would be less
chance of people ending up in the
infirmary,” said Scott Cameron, a Pi
Kappa Alpha pledge.

Some freshmen are less optimis-
tic.

“I don’t think it’s going to make
much ofa difference,” Phi Gamma
Delta pledge Mike Crittenden said.

Freshman Dana Early agreed. “If
you want to get trashed, you can

get trashed drinking hard alcohol or '

by drinking beer,” said Early. Fresh-
man Meredith Bryk holds the same
perspective.

“I think on Tear Night, people are
going to get drunk no matter what,”
said Bryk. “It just means all that
much more beer consumed.”

Bryk also questioned how well
the policy could be enforced. “Un-
less there is someone enforcing [the
policy] in each house, I don’t think
the houses would really voluntarily
adhere to it.”

Junior Jay Pfeifer, a Kappa Sigma,
disagreed.

“Generally, I support [the
policy],” he said. “Hard alcohol is
the most dangerous of all.

Pfeifer feels this danger manifests
itself when students drink shots.

“You can still have fun drinking
beer. Kids usually go to the hospi-
tal after doing shots, not from beer,”
added Pfeifer.

Fraternity presidents will vote on
the ban of hard alcohol tomorrow
night. Callen hopes that “most presi-
dents will take the high ground and
realize that it’sjust one night.”

    

PAGE 2

 PLAN

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

areas, dining services and ofﬁces. Security and other stu-
dent support facilities will also be relocated. Price tag for

the commons: $19.4 million

Sorority Housing: Five sorority houses will be built on
the North side of Woods Creek near Wilson Field. Each
will be 80,000 sq. ft. and have room for 20 women. The ﬁve

houses will cost $8.2 million.

Athletic improvements: The University is also plan-
ning on making $2.3 million in improvements to athletic
facilities. Plans include an Astroturf ﬁeld, renovations to
Wilson Field and the Pavilion and relocation ofthe base-

ball ﬁeld.

Parking Garage: W&L wants to build a four or ﬁve
level parking garage that will total 450-550 spots. A bridge
will also be constructed to link the garage to the sorority
houses. The garage will be designed to accomodate the
loss of parking elsewhere due to new construction and

IICWS

Also in the long-terrn plan is a 90,000 sq. ft. ﬁeld house
so teams can practice indoors during inclement weather.
While not included in the five-year plan, the University
feels that this too is an important addition.

Some students expressed surprise at spending $2.3 mil-
lion on athletic facilities, but Howison argues that there is

strong support for the facilities.

“The consensus isthat our athletic facilities are, in many
areas, not competitive with top Division 111 programs,”
Howison said. “The Astroturf ﬁeld has strong support. A

turfed, lighted field has extended uses with little

maintenence.”

The men’s lacrosse team was forced to play last
weekend’s game against Courtland State at the University
of Virginia in Charlottesville because rain made Wilson ﬁeld

unplayable. Current facilities are tight when considerations

are made for varsity, club and intramural sports.

Liz Borges, a freshman lacrosse player, hopes to be able
to use the new athletic facilities.

“It’ll be better when it rains,” Borges said. “We’ve been
inside a few times, and it would have been better for the

should cost $6.4 million. team if we could have played outdoors.”
,/T"O’\, . . /‘
  Occu anc Llmlts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 Beta Theta Pi 336 CONTINUED FROM PAGE1
Schnetzler, for his part, was unable Chi Psi* Wrlfed Tuesda)’ (35 Pa_‘“°k’5 Day)
to ﬁnd the occupancy limits for any of Kappa Alpha** hurmg the Rhles Meetmg at 5 pm‘
the fraternity basements. He said that Ka a Si man: In the EC Um_VerSh3,' Center room’
W&L’s Buildings and Grounds depait- pp g . The °1e°"°“ Wl“ be M°“da.‘/a
Lambda Ch‘ AIPI1-3 324 March 23 and the run—off Tuesda
ment would have the answers. Re- _ * y’
peated calls to Scott Beebe, Director Ph‘ Delta Theta March 26'_ _
of B&G and March Fontenot Frater— Phi Gamma D€1ta* Accordmg to Baldwm’ 3 general
. S . f B&G’ t _ . P .* consensus was reached among mem-
$2; 8 (:1 pewlsor or were no re Phi Kappa _s1 * * bers of the EC about Jorgensen’s sud-
Only six of the ﬁfteen fraternities Ph1Kappa Slgma ' den departure‘ “The constitution
- ~ . Pi Kappa Alpha 200 mandates that we hold elections to
knew the occupancy limit of their ' _ ” _ “
house’s basement.(See box at right for P1 Kappa PI" 250 replace someone’ he Sald‘ The gen"
further information.) Sigma Alph Epsilon 418 fralhcohlsehjws W31: t°1g° %head and
The rest couln’t ﬁnd the inforrna- sigma chit en 6 e echhhs ta 6 P ace‘
tion or didn’t know. In nine ofthe fra- - A hote wlh be added to each bah
temity basements the Occupancy 1im_ Slgma Nu 300 lot indicating that the class of 2001
its were not Clearly posted Sigman Phi Epsion* is not only voting for next year’s EC
*inforrnation taken from the Janu- *Didn’t have the occupancy limit reipresematfwes’ but also for a re‘
ary 26,1998 edition of the Ring—tum Phi " re ’ “ p acemeht or 'I°rgehSeh'

  L rolled over Hollins College on Thurs- Hall Fields.

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
we’ve ever played,” Taurassi said.
Saturday, the Generals were greeted

with temperatures in the mid—40s and
winds gusting over 40 m.p.h., but
Bridgewater became W&L’s fourth vic-
tim of the season 15-6. Parker, Borges
and Taurassi all scored hat-tricks for the
Generals. Borgess also picked up three
assists, Parker had two and Taurassi
added one. Freshman Ellen Ritsch
scored twice. Senior Mary Jo Mahoney,
sophomore Katherine Riddle and fresh-
man Caroline Gee each scored one goal.

The normally sharp Generals played
uncharacteristically sloppy against
Bridgewater.

“I’m not sure we were all that intense
because of our history with
Bridgewater,” said coach Jan Hathom.

“We played like we warmed up,” said
Taurassi. “We were much more focused
on Sunday, and it showed.”

In their first win of the week, W&L

day 21-5. Nine different Generals scored
goals, led by Borges and senior Mary
J o Mahoney, who each had four goals.
Parker and Taurassi added three each.
Borges also added two assists. W&L
jumped to a 13-3 lead at halftime and
never looked back.

The ninth-rariked Generals look to
move up in the NCAA rankings aﬁer
seventh-rariked Roanoke College’s up-
set loss to Randolph-Macon 15-13 Sat-
urday. W&L now controls its own
ODAC destiny next Saturday when they
travel to Randolph-Macon for a show-
down between the only two unbeatens.
Roanoke was picked to win the ODAC
— Roanoke travels to W&L for a game
March 3 1 .

“I’m not that surprised,” Hathom
said. “I said last year that Randolph-
Macon was going to be good. It’s not
going to change anything we do.”

Before Randolph-Macon, W&L
must get past Lynchburg College on
Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. on the Liberty

 

M19"    
Stllllll  

  
   
  

 

Arie

Editors 
Managers  needeOdil*gfr”
Ring-tum Phi. . . . . .   .2.-
.one...,...*agg.go....oo.¢Cél'.

. . . .  . . . .P0litical  1
 C C . V. . . . . . . C . I. . . . 

Submit a resum  
letter by March   
the box in the IIIlIIIEI'8I_t_V  5
neuter in front of Carol    
Caulkins’ office.   I ,

Interviews will be    a

March 25. g

  

“Obviously Randolph-Macon is
paying better this year,” Taurassi
said. ‘‘We’ 11 deal with them after we
get past Lynchburg.”

 

Need 21 Disc Jockey for your next party?
Call the Mark Daughtrey DJ Service at 465-9337.

Sel'\Arig1‘neW8.LccrrrruJriTgslncel989vlA1I1fasf,dq:>erldabIe
ser\4ce,ageaTsaJndsgsIern,arldaIofgoJrfavorltepartgtunes

Pmr1ngabashaT1‘nelasfn1rlu1’e? Depending orl availabittg Marl<can

beatgoupartg sehp, andbereadg toplag vutrin a coupleof
hours of gour cal.
The Mark Daughtrey DJ Service — Lexington

463-9337

  

MARCH 16, 1998

EEILETTERS

i   TINUEDIFRO/MPAGLE5,

 

;.Ce"cIIine and articleon
Editor,  I

.1;

60st.

 
 

~.«

  
  
  
    
 
  
  
       
   
 
    

4 ~ g  dining hallworker at Washington and Lee
~ U verjsity,IwishHtofﬁ1lin the gaps that the Ring-tum
ti] cant in their. story, “D-hail workers upset at

x: iegito quote any ofthe dining hall
akirigfithardyfor me to believel a headline that ' I ’

‘  I resent thgeir feelings toward Fancy Dress.

 ’ ~ 1 W yvorléérs werenot upset athaving

tickets. In the pastisome of the, ~
9ﬂ?’°1§:¢1‘3°Y°<3 gétﬁng their
‘om the kitchen staff who did not

. fén,al$1¢T’.P51i¢y Was a shoiik
hall unable to attend , g ,
dad  i,hrough.,.the ’
.Pit¥1°.i¥sé:ai1i the pﬁvilegeé I  ‘
rah I I " 

I hope that in the future, the Ring-tum Phi will be
more careful when it prints headline stories about a

group of people that it never even interview.

FD cost» 4
’ with Jerry Springer article
DearEditor,

almost gets Springer” article last week, Kathryn

, . since it was pretty slow the week after FD. Aﬂer
reading the ﬁnal story, I am sorry to see that

Mayurnik printed the story she wanted toprint,
2 , slantingthe article to create controversy.  v  

2

It

   
 

  

« y , gspéaker:   weido see
‘ , ;’ spe s that will do more "than give .a one hour

 

. Sincerely,
Charlotte Graham ’99

Contact chairman concerned *

When she called to interview me for your “W&L

Mayurnik told me that the Phi was looking for news’

*C0l1taCt’,Wantedft0 bring Jerry Springer to W&L _
I We felt that he would {create a fun event, especially if
he agreed to do a mock show on campus. Unfortu— .; .
, nately, after talking to agent, it became_c1earj to  
. that  chances of getting Springer were extremely  i
at slim. It-Iisagerit toldfps that«Roanoi<e, an, I 1
» I iinportantTV maiicetto Springerand that~.Springer 1,  
. _' , therefore expressed no real interest iii! speaking here. ., »

      

  

  
 
 
 
 

Admissions Counselor

The W & L Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for a possible
admissions counselor position. All
interested graduating seniors should
submit a cover letter and resume no
later than‘Wednesday,

March 25, 1998 to
Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions
Office of Admissions

ATTENTION COLLEGE SENIORS: WHAT DO
I DO NEXT?

Be a live—in nanny for UVA professors’ family for
one year, starting August 1. Regular weekday
schedule, generous salary, paid vacations and
holidays, health insurance, free room and board,
own spacious living quarters (with bathroom and
seperate entrance), all utilities, summer pool
membership, privacy, respect. Non—smokers, good
drivers, college graduates or students only.

Call 804-924-7815 or e-mail aw2b@virginia.edu.

 

 
 

COROLLA

  
 
 

._ THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
‘ REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALLTHAT
 WE NEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE

 ' THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER TIIE PAST 30 YEARS,
COROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
 CARS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT ‘S ALL-xNEW...WITH
>§" MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
 ALUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMlCAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER

 
 

QUIETER, AND BEST OF ALL, IT STARTS
AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
‘X YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
' ' I MONEY. WHAT A '
R E F R E S H I N G 3

 

CHANGE!

TOYOTA 

 
 

GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA IS SAFER AND 

c’/\./C/Vi/IOIEI/I

 
 
  
 
    
            
  
    
  

,1»

  

..,~

 

MARCH 16, 1998

llappq ﬁt.

  

FD affects
local prom

CD Since the Fancy Dress committee
won’t be passing on as many decora-
tions as in previous years, Rockbridge
County High School is making some
changes to its usual prom plans.

BY ERICA PRCBSER

STAFF Warm:

The Rockbridge County High School prom is getting
its first facelift, thanks in part to Washington and Lee.

For the ﬁrst time ever, the prom is moving out of the
gym and into the Natural Bridge Hotel. That’s not exactly
a break in tradition (the school is only ﬁve years old), but
it is certainly a change, and it all came about because of the
W&L Fancy Dress Ball, said prom sponsor and art teacher
Cindy Kleinchester.

“This is the first year we won’t be able to get anything
[for decoration] from W&L,” she said. Traditionally, local
high schools have come to W&L the morning after FD and
taken decorations for use in their proms, but this year,
things have changed. Matt Kirby-Smith, the W&L stu-
dent in charge of construction for FD, says that Kleinchester
is not entirely correct.

“I think there are going to be small things that the high
schools can have,” he said. But
the majority of decorations will
not be given away this year. The
FD committee is not heartless;
rather, it is frugal. Some decora-
tions are rented, and other FD
construction tends to be well
done and expensive. For the first
time, the committee will try to re-
cover some of the expense.

I “If we just stored the con-
FEW FD struction from one FD to the next,
DECORATIONS the school could save about
will be used by RCHS $15,000,” said Kirby-Smith. Stor-
tlzisyear. Ho/us’/7~.'/I age is not an option this year, but
H()W-J)/PH()7I) E1)/'/on since many of the decorations are
well-constructed theater sets,
they will be sold for a discount to local theater groups.
K irby-Smith said that, for example, the fountain constructed
for the small gym will be sold to Shenanarts, a local theater
<'~<lllj?£lIl}’, when the dance is over.

As financially sound as these ideas are for W&L, RCHS
has been left without a source of prom decorations.
Kleinchester said that was not a problem. Traditionally, even
with the free decorations, the high school has shelled out
$5,000 for its prom. This year, for the same price, the school
was able to book the Natural Bridge Hotel ballroom and pro-
vide food and drinks for promgoers. The school has even
sinpper_l relying on FD themes as themes for the prom.

'‘we’ve always gone with the FD theme in the past,”
szticl Kleinchester. This year, without decorations to back
up a ’20s theme, the prom committee came up with a new,
simpler theme. Kleinchester could not divulge this year’s
theme, since it is kept as a surprise until the night of the
prom, but she did say that the hotel would “run the show”
with its already evident beauty and elegance.

The prom change has led to other improvements, too.
A provincial fireplace in the hotel will serve as the back-
drop for prom pictures, making a welcome change from
the usual backdrop provided by the photography studio.
The traditional deejay will be spinning the CD5, and the
prom committee will decorate the hotel entrance and each
prom table. Kleinchester said that the students have just
begun to get excited about the event;junior Meredith Cox
said that prom has been the topic of conversation in the
school halls lately.

“Everyone is talking about dresses, dates, and other
prom stuff,” she said. She doesn’t yet have a date, but she
has a couple of months to get one.

The prom, scheduled for May 9, will host about 400
students for four hours. Thejunior class must pay for the
prom, but thanks to fund raisers held by the class since
September, the school can again keep the prom ticket prices
low. Tickets are $10 per person, which makes it easy for
even the lower income students to attend.

Money does not seem to be as big an issue as some
might expect, Kleinchester said. Even students from low-
income families go all-out, renting limos and buying ex-
pensive dresses. The result was a success for the handful

ofgirls who participated; they need only purchase acces-
sories and shoes to match the gowns.

Cox isn’t sure whether the prom will be better than previ-
ous years, but Kleinchesterthinks that the whole experience
will turn out well. ‘‘I’m looking forward to it,” she said.

 

 

i-teat’

&life

 

ﬂatritlfa Bag!

PAGE 3’

ENTRY FORMS are available wherever Guinness products are sold. Ho/././s’/me HoV1;r/PHo1'0 EDIIUR

In honor of St. Patrick’s Day

rink &

Think

Brewery sponsors essay contest

BY TARAH GRANT

FI=AIURI§ EDITOR

Ifexperience helps on job applica-
tions, Washington and Lee students
will have an advantage in at least one
career opportunity.

Guinness Import Company has an-
nounced its ﬁfth annual “Win Your
Own Pub In Ireland” contest. Thejob
application consists of an essay con-
test: Explain, in 50 words or less, why
Guinness is your “perfect pint.” The
contest deadline is March 31.

Competition is stiff. Last year
45,000 people entered, and Guinness
selects only 10 finalists.

Finalists win a trip for two to Ire-
land to participate in the Grand Prize
contest, which includes an evalua-
tion ofeach ﬁnalist’s Guinness pint-
pouring skills, a dart-throwing com-
petition and an another essay deliv-
ered orally. The top-scoring finalist
wins the grand prize: Finucane’s Pub
in Listowel, County Kerry, lreland.

Finucane’s is a fully functional
classic Irish pub with a wood bar,
booth seating, a pool table, a liquor
store and a loyal following of local
customers. Above the pub, there’s
a two-story apartment with four bed-
rooms, a large kitchen, living room
with ﬁreplace, dining room, bathroom
and roof terrace.

The grand prize winner will live in
the apartment and operate the pub.
The approximate market value ofthe
prize is $330,000.

Students over the age of2l are eli-
gible to enter the contest. On the
Guinness ofﬁcial contest website, the
company offers entrants some advice:
“When artists need inspiration to cre-
ate great works of art they often
choose a subject that appeals to them
most. So, when it comes to writing a
great essay on Guinness, what better
way to get inspired than by experienc-
ing a Perfect Pint firsthand?”

Lexington’s pub, The Staircase,

has three Irish beers on tap, including
Guinness. Should a W&L student win
the contest, Sam McArthur, owner of
The Staircase, said, “I would be happy
to give them all the advice they need.”

Guinness has many loyal fans at
W&L. ‘‘I like beer like I like my men—
tall, dark and bitter,” junior Trevor Reed
explains. With Guinness-drinking
students and professors, Lexington
could generate a fair amount of con-
test entries.

_ To enter, complete_ the form located
on ih'e"Gu'ihiie's's”'Web’ Sité,"ht'tp'i//
www.'gui'nn‘ess. You can enter as often
as you wish, but each entry must be
different and transmitted separately.

The web site also has examples of
previous years’ winning essays to
read for inspiration and a virtual
QuickTime tour of the object of de-
sire, Finucane’s Pub.

For people who aren’t Internet
savvy, you can print your entry on an
ofﬁcial entry form (available at Harris
Teeter) along with your name, address,
telephone number, conﬁrmation that
you are at least 21 years of age, and
mail it to: Guinness Contest, P.O. Box
3169, Grand Rapids, MN 55745-3169.

Entries will bejudged equally on the
basis of originality, relevance, appeal,
clarity and appropriateness for use in
publicity and advertising. Finalists will
be notified on or about April 24,1998,
just after we return from spring break.
The grand prize competition will take
place in Ireland May 8-14.

Previous winners include a female
Oregon Department ofFish and Wild-
life worker, a retired sales manager
from Florida and a Minneapolis mu-
sic technician (who sang an ode to a
pint of Guinness during the Grand
Prize competition).

So far, no college students have won
the contest, but with a little luck and a
few well-chosen words, a Washington
and Lee student could be the next
owner of an Irish pub.

“As the cool, creamy
head of a pint of
Guinness settles, adver-
saries become partners,
problems become solu-
tions and acquaintances

become good friends.-”
—Finalist Robert ‘coe 'ofCo'rinécfi%ut ‘
wrote in his essay last year.

¢cw.mmw...,..,,. ,,,,,,,r, ,,,,,,,W,

» ?’1mi>°*¢ Ccmr.-We its afﬁmmvi
;-.-.'conipanie‘s and agencies,and

 

‘ :,Z01K‘-. 3 (C0,. UT; NM; NV, WY,"

   
   

; Pptenniii ti/nalistsivill be notiﬁed

 

; OFFICIAL RULES: I ,_

~ I.a ELIGIBILITY: No purchase
necessary to enter or claim prize. .
Contestopen to US. . residents 21.

” andfolder. Employees of Guinness .

I members o_f5the immediate fami-

._ lies oi‘ households of such employ-_

‘ ‘c’es‘,ar‘e/notieligible. Void where
prohibited. ‘

2; JUDGING: Entries will be
judged equallyvdn the basis oforigi-
nality, relevance to; Guinness prod-

‘ uct, appeal, clarity’/and,appropri-
ateness for useiti publicity and
advertising. Judging will be con-

» ducted jointly bye panel of iride-
pendentjudges and Guinness Im- ‘
port Coinpanyjemployees, under

_ the supervisionof Clarion Mar-
keting and, Communications. Ten-
tinalists will be chosen, one —ﬁ'om
each of terrcontest zones: Zone 1 "
(ME, VT,‘NH, MA, RI), Zone 2

. (CT, NY, NJ), Zone 3 (DE, VA,
MD,'DC, NC), Zone 4 (PA, WV,

Z OH), Zone 5 (SC, GA, MS, LA,

‘~"',rN, FL; AL, AR),'Zone 6 (IN,

VQKX, MI, IL, VYI), Zone 7 (MN,

 ND, SD, NE,vIA, KS, M0, OK), ~

A2), Zone ‘9 (wA,~oR, ID, MT, Y

AKJII),/Zone I0,(CA),.provided. ;

g uﬂicient number’ ofqualiﬁed en- ‘

. Ines received. In the event of 
V» a‘tie,‘fmalists’;will be determined
- byithe higtiéstf ‘originality score-

 why/»rnail on 9:. about April 24,.

, I 1998; ’Eaeh,fcjualiﬁed finalist will

°\iv,iu;a trip fortwo to Ireland to
‘participate in the Grand Prize con-

’ ,”}test, which will includegan evalua-

,Tti,ori of each‘ fiiialist’s" Guinness

; “pint-pouring skills; a,dar”'tsiconi-

f 9 peﬁtion and an another*‘es§ay?.de~

fglivered orallyl  top-scoring fi- i°=
nalist will win the giraridfrize. V 

;  PR'IZES:u(l.)V‘G'rattcl.Pri2e_- 

: authentic Irish pub“,ljooated.;in 

 Listowel, lrelari;l,-fwitli;§,approxi-: 7?,

jate market,value,.of,,$3§ 000.

    
 
   
  
    

 
     
 

V ‘expenses relatjedto ti  ‘tic’ .
 Waiting anrissiﬁtsd !l°.°nS¢S». -
" ‘ ging l‘or"appropriaté.insurance
verage upon taltingstitlertothe -
. rdpercy and qperatiris, i>u'b:<:o) _
iFin'alist Prizes} .- :iA}.!rip I,for.tw6 ‘tor
and.» Prize consists ‘of round.‘
grip coach air travel from tlie,Aer ,
*I';iiigusv gateway‘ city ‘closieste to
'7 /””w‘inner’s residence,’ doublettroom
 accommodations for siit ,dayslﬁve\
 nights.-.andl  
”;mncIt,»saern;Itisi, " ” I .

  

 

    
  
   

iisiltilittf Oﬁtiﬁ‘ .
ar{ticipafing,_eritrants

_ les /'and.decisio1'is
 as titiar’ir‘r an are-I
"sp‘t:Tcts,_.~All ,e tries ‘become the 
»P’l'."?l>l=‘rty»4¢v,'lf.,s'poi_is;0r, ‘,and"entrant ' —
., grants tosponsoriill rights bf own-

‘;  Sponsor  notfresponsible
 for late, ‘lost,‘incornplete, stolen,

 

 
   
   
 

‘ ,  .. .3s_2,,. ..
abilvitjilpublicityreleasewhichmust ,

‘V returned‘  fseveri days ,0:
ternate winner may be se-
ri,"_'i‘ijriirel companions must
$139 9<!f*'Vi2l¢t¢.‘S*Iliﬁ*fli'Y’l"l"‘l°*‘Y
=‘reI,ease:1fl3,a:.=’h} winner‘ and (travel
_ comvénicn agrEe..«=s"vt.<z the. use of

f tslher name and/or photograph
gjfoi advertising‘ and publicity pur-
Tj: poses withoiit additional ,com'pen-
 '§iiion;;Nq.pnz¢ transfer or sub- <
.« ‘giirrrtiajns/exceptﬁasiiletcnnined‘ by
  to unavailability.“
‘ *5;-« WINNERSLIST: For a list of
 w{nners,1send;a self-addressed,
  envelope, to be received

Mafchj‘q3»1,‘-1998, to: Guinness
ontest Winners,» PO. Box 704,
‘ Siiyreville-,;.NJ 0.8871-704. Re-
’ ests will be‘fu:l/:t'ill‘ed after June
$51998,-Additionally, the list of
rnpers will be posted on the
 jiinness Web‘ site at http://
“ ‘ww-w.guinness,ie through June 30,
7_7I‘9,98.- I"

 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  

Local boy gone big time returns to his old stomping ground

   

(13 Dave Matthews’ 1998 tour starts in
Roanoke. Tickets go on sale Saturday.

BY STEPHEN PESG5

 

STAFF \WRITER

pring tenn classes commence on

Monday, April 20. Saturday the

18th, Dave Matthews Band
opens its 1998 Tour at Roanoke’s Vic-
tory Stadium. Opening in the band’s
home state, the U.S./Canadian tour
will last through July 7. The Roanoke
performance should potentially re-
ceive wide national attention be-
cause it is the first ofthe tour.

The band’s fourth album, “Before
These Crowded Streets” will be re-
leased on April 28, ten days after
the concert. The ten-number song
list contains: “Rapunzel,” “The Last

Stop,” “Don’t Drink the Water,”
“Stay,” “Halloween,” “The Stone,”
“Crush,” “The Dreaming Tree,”
“Pig” and “Spoon.” ‘

The first day ofspring marks the
first day that tickets will go on sale
for the concert. Doors open at 10
a.m. this Saturday, March 21, at the
Roanoke Civic Center box office and
Ticketmaster offices.

Dave has not played in the area
since October 1994, when he ap-
peared at the
Rockbridge 

ous fraternity house basements.
W&L students feel a close tie to
Dave Matthews from his perfor-
mances way back when and affec-
tion for the band within the commu-
nity remains. The local boy gone big
time will certainly draw an enormous
crowd, and students hoping to get
tickets may have to resort to the
freshman tactic of camping out for
what they want (though the results
ofthis campout would certainly be

Horse Center.
Many stu-
dents remem-
ber or have
heard stories
of when the
band per-

Students will have a greaz‘ opportunity
to witness first-hand a band that many
enjoy so much wiflzozu‘ lingering
worries ofclasses and tests.

formed in vari-

77

more memorable than a scarcely at-
tended biology class).

Freshman lean Rowan expressed
disappointment that the band will be
playing while students are still on
break. “Many friends who won’t be
able to make it in will miss a chance
to share an awesome experience,”
she said. “You’d think they would
have acted more considerately to-
wards a community that has singly in-
vested in millions ofdollars
worth of Dave Matthews

BandCDs.”
Yet, quite
possibly, the
timing of the
concert may
be ideal. Stu-
dents will

have a great
opportunity to

witness ﬁrst-hand a band that many
enjoy so much without lingering
worries of classes and tests. Po-
tentially, the Dave Matthews con-
cert on April I8 may prove a fabu-
lous beginning to a fantastic
Spring Term.

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

PAGE 4

RESULTS

Men’s Lacrosse (4-1)
Sat.: Gettysburg 7
W&L 8
Won1en’s Lacrosse
(5-0)

Thu: Hollins 5
W&L 21

Sat.: Bridgewater 6
W&L 15
Sun.: F&M 8
W&L 11
Baseball (3-5)
Thu: Bridgewater 5
W&L 2
Fri.: Lynchburg 1
W&L 2
Sat.: VA Wesleyan 1
W&L 4
VAWes1eyan 5
W&L 3
Men’sTennis(5-1)
Tue.: Roanoke 0
W&L 7
E. Mennonite 0
W&L 7
Sat.: Hamp.-Syd. 1
W&L 6
Women’sTennis(7-3)
Thu: Rand.- Macon O
W&L 9
Fri.: Kenyon 7
W&L 1
Sat.: Colgate .3
W&L 6
Sim.: VAWes1eyan 0
W&L 9
Sun.: E. Mennonite O
W&L 9
Monday
Golf —

at Ferrum Invitational
Men's Tennis ——
Ripon, 3 :00 pm,
Upper Courts

Tuesday

Baseball —

Savannah A&D, 3:00 pm,
Smith Field

Golf—

at F errum Invitational

Wednesday

Women’s Lax —
Lynchburg

4:00 p.m., Liberty Hall Fields

X Thursday

Baseball —

i at E. Mennonite, 3:00pm

Smith Field

Women’s Tennis —
at Lynchburg, 3 :30 p.m.
Women’s Tennis —
at Roanoke 3:30 p.m.
Men’s Tennis —

at VMI, 3:00 p.m.

Satu rday

Women’s Lacrosse —

at Rand-Macon, 1:00 p.m.
Women’s Tennis -—

Mary Washington
12:00p.m., Lower Courts
Men’s Tennis —
Wooster, 1:00 p.m.

M&W Track —

Roanoke Invitational, all day

Sunday

Baseball —

at Mary Washington
1:00 p.m., Smith Field
Men’s Lacrosse —
at Franklin & Marshall
1:00 p.m.

sports

MARCH 16, 1998

Men’s lax upsets Gettysburg in 2nd OT

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—-—j—-T SPORTS \X/Rriiaz

For anyone with a history of heart
problems and high blood pressure,
it was probably best to avoid Wil-
son Field yesterday afternoon dur-
ing Washington and Lee’s show-
down with national rival Gettysburg.

W&L freshman attackman Tom
Burke scored the game winning goal
with 2:00 left in the second sudden-
death overtime to give 12th ranked
W&L an 8-7 victory over fifth
ranked Gettysburg in front of an
elated home crowd.

W&L had a number of
oppurtunites to end the game in
both overtimes as the Generals
outshot the Bullets 8-0 in the extra
frames. With just over 2:00 left in
the second OT, senior captain Paul
Stanley blew by a defender, faked a
shot, and made a spectacualar pass
to Burke, who ripped a shot into the

back of the net to give the Generals

the dramatic victory.

“I just tried to attack the goal and
I saw two guys open in the crease,”
said Stanley, descirbing the last play
of the game. “Burke made a great
move to get open, I got him the ball,
and he put it in.”

The Generals got off to a quick "

start and led the Bullets 5-2 midway
through the second quarter before
Gettysburg scored four unanswered
goals to take a 6-5 lead with 4:06 left
in the ﬁrst half. Matt Dugan then
scored his third goal of the half to
tie the game 6-6 before Ross
Garetson gave the Bullets a 7-6 lead
with 3:08 left in the half in what
would turn out to be Gettysburg’s
last goal of the game.

Gettysburg went scoreless during
the second half and both overtimes
as W&L scored the only goal ofthe
second half on a short handed goal
by senior Ed Dougherty with 1:23
left in the third quarter. Senior goalie

YOU TAKE IT. Senior captain longstick midﬁelder Robb Greenfield slides between two Gettysburg players and passes it
to junior midﬁelder T om Super. The General ’s defense was onﬁre in their double overtime win over the #5 Gettysburg Bullets.

HOLLISTER Ho VEY / PHOTO EDITOR

Scott Jackson was the unsung hero
for the Generals, as he came up huge
in his first start of the season, a ca-
reer high 17 saves and shutting out
the Bullets during the ﬁnal 38 min-
utes of the game.

“I had a strong game because of
our defense and because of our
coaches,” said Jackson. “The defense
really played well and our coaches did
a great job getting us prepared.”

“Scott had a really strong game
and our defense really stepped it

Undefeated women’s lax
crushes Bridgewater, F&M

BY JASON ZACHER
——j—-— EXHIUTIVE EDrroR

Cold temperatures and strong
winds could not cool off the
women’s lacrosse team last week-
end as the Generals picked up three
wins in four days.

Washington and Lee moves to 5-0
(3-0 ODAC) on the season, outscoring
their opponents 78-32. It is the sec-
ond time in the last three years that
W&L has opened their season 5-0

Led by sophomore goalkeeper
Ginny Jemigan, the Generals’ defense
stoned Franklin & Marshall 11-8 and
Bridgewater 15-6 over the weekend.
Jemigan made 40 saves on 53 shots
in the two games.

On Sunday, W&L dumped Franklin
& Marshall behind the strong offen-
sive play of senior captain Whitney

Parker. Parker scored ﬁve goals, in-
cluding one in the ﬁrst minute of the
game. Mid-way through the ﬁrst half,
F&M held a 5-3 lead, but behind three
goals from Parker, the Generals went
on an 8-1 run to take the lead for good.

Even though the Generals were held
scoreless in the final 20 minutes,
Jemigan made 23 saves to preserve the
victory for W&L.

“Even though she has only played
for two -years, she looks like she has
been a player forever,” said senior cap-
tain Lorraine Taurassi. “We feel very
conﬁdent with her behind us.”

Taurassi added three goals for the
Generals. Freshman Liz Borges, sopho-
more Katherine Riddle and junior
Lauren Francis also scored.

“We played one of the best games

CD SeeIAXpage2

@Jock Shorts

- Track claims 4th at W&L Invitational - Women’s
tennis wins ﬁve of six matches-

Track

Wilson Field was the site of the an-
nual Washington and Lee Track and
Field Invitational on Saturday aﬁemoon
and both of W&L’s track teams took
fourth place in what was the opening
meet in the outdoor track season. Se-
nior Greg Ruthig led the way for the men
as he won the 1,500 and finished sec-
ond in the 800.

For the women, junior Lisa Brennan
also won the 1,500 and took second in
the 800. In the women’s 800, W&L took
three of the top four places as junior
Natalia Dorofeeva finished first, Brennan
took second, and freshman Kathleen
Moroney took fourth.

The W&L women also captured first
place in the 4x400 relay. Frostburg State
won the overall title for both the men
and the women.

Women’s Tennis

The W&L women’s tennis team had
a tough week, playing six matches in
five days. They came away with ﬁve
wins, only losing to NCAA nemesis

Kenyon College. The Generals
blanked their four ODAC opponents,
Va. Wesleyan, Sweet Briar, Randolph-
Macon and Eastern Mennonite, win-
ning all nine matches.

The Generals have won seven of
their last eight matches, bringing their
record to 7-3 (6-0 ODAC). W&L has
not lost a single individual match to
and ODAC opponent.

No. 1 ﬂight player, senior Ericka
Shapard, only lost two games in her
three ODAC matches. No. 2 player, se-
nior Berry Blankinship, swept her two
ODAC matches. Kenyon, who beat the
Generals in the semi-fmals of last year’s
NCAA tournament, dropped the Gen-
erals 8-1 on Friday the 13th. Only fresh-
man Anne Castello won for W&L. The
doubles team of sophomore Erin Eggers
and sophomore Brook Hartzell almost
pulled out a victory, losing 9-7.

This week, the Generals play split-
squad matches Thursday against
Lynchburg College and Roanoke Col-
lege. Saturday, Mary Washington
comes to town to take on the Generals
on the Lower Courts at high noon.

up,” added Stanley. “The coaching
staff really prepared us all week; we
knew what was coming and we got
it done.”

The Generals, who came into the
game ranked 12th in the nation in
Division III lacrosse, improved their
record to 4-1 on the season.

The victory is extremely impor-
tant for the Generals NCAA tourna-
ment hopes, especially after they
lost to 10th ranked Cortland State
last week.

“They were ranked ﬁfth in the na-
tion so it’s obviously a huge win
for us,” said Stanley.

“This puts us one step closer to
our goal: making the NCAA touma-
merit,” addeed Jackson. “But we
still have a long way to go.”

The victory marked the third
consecutive year that the Generals
have defeated Gettysburg College,
a team which made it all the way to
the NCAA Division III semi-finals
last season. It was only the second

game of the season for the Bullets,
who fall to 1-1 with the loss. The
Bullets have played ﬁve overtime
periods in their first two games; it
took them three overtimes to defeat
Roanoke 10-9 in their first game of
the season.

Next, the Generals hit the road
and travel to Lancaster, Pennsylva-
nia to take on Franklin & Marshall
next Sunday. They return home on
March 25 to host Connecticut Col-
lege on Wilson Field.

WASHINTQN AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Annual Fund Staff Associate

The Office of University Development has an
opening for an Annual Fund Staff Associate. This
position assists in the development and management
of strategies to increase involvement in the ﬁnancial
support of Washington and Lee through the Annual
Fund which provides direct support to the ‘
University’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a second year,
with preference given to recent W&L graduates

As this entry-level position depends on creative
communication to a varied constituency, the
successful candidate should posses excellent writing
and verbal skills. Also necessary are demonstrated
initiative, an ability to work within specific
deadlines, ability to prioritize and juggle multiple
tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student
workers and alumni volunteers, and a willingness to
assist other staff members as needed. Candidates
should also be prepared for evening and weekend
work and some travel. Familiarity with computers
and with public relations principles is a plus. A
bachelor’s degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter
of application to Robert W. Fox, Director of
Personnel Services, Washington and Lee Univ_ersity,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

,,,,_,,.,,¢u-n-..-i.-.«....~-.-»,.»«.~ , -. 

7

 

   
   

Will tear night get ripped off?

A potentially troublesome message was sent out to member on this campus,’ is that these proposals send the
fraternity members at the Inter-Fraternity Council message that the fraternities lack the ability to take care of
meeting held last Monday. At that meeting, proposals their affairs responsibly. The proposal to ban hard alcohol
for a number of rule changes were made. Two are of on tear nights suggests that fraternities are unable, as the
particular interest, number of visits made. to the hospital by freshmen over the

The first would ban all hard alcohol on Tear Night. last few Tear Nights indicate, to ensure that its members
The second proposed change deals with destruction of and pledges drink even semi-responsibly. The proposal
university-owned property in fraternity houses. mandating an IFC review of punishments for acts of Se-

 mj“ struction in fraternity houses suggests that this damage as
" " T ' t  €’FI‘0II1 3 Bar  gotten out of control and that the punishments handed out

0 p  n    V 5- 7 by fraternities have been ineffective or nonexistent.

, c Swensen 98 . ,
.  _?___._ Are these suggestions true? I don’t know. I don t have
 n   p   n a  Whenever University property in a fraternity house an intimate knowledge of the workings of every fraternity
Q is broken, that fratemity’s judicial board willbe required on campus. But I believe someone — whether it be thlei
A letter which appeared in last Week’s issue to invisiigate the incident E;I:df[i)I'C:1:ntdIlS findings to the lioard 0§1T1I'(Li1Stt:]eS,etlir:] pf:1:si;lit(yr;stlti(e k2,l:It:11IlIélSmIe(:;Il,e:):h:y

~ - - - ' IFC. I t e erson res onsi e or e amage isa mem- ree — o 5 es 1 .

O; The Trldefnttatgaclfedffhelr  Efupnntlng ber of thatliouse, theii thejudicial board must also iin- are true or not doesn’t really matter. As longas these im-
t e names 0 S u en S C arge W1 g pose a punishment on that person and report it to the pressions are held by people with the power either to force

I
lp-o

 

-.«.-. .. .«....-. -...-..-..«.....-;....-,.—.(-.-J

  

 

iconcerned,al;fgut it. ‘ 

 

9

  
 

‘editoriat. As“  »

  

   

 Possession in the dorms“ This raises interest" IFC, which may refer the student to the Student Judicial changes or to pressure us to make changes, our autonomy . V 70319  ;
ing issues, namely the The Ring-tum Phi’s council for further action. will be slowly chippedawayi . .  7-
policy of not regularly publishing the names of If a fraternity will notreveal who is responisiblefor a A lot has c1liangeg‘s{ip)c1: I amyted (fm ca:inlr)lLl1sshf\ov1:1rS)t'1<:ra:: 17‘ amen em?» 0 
Students who are Charged with driving under piiltnciilf1::):ﬂ1Ofr(:l:i-ii):liiiitil]:h:[ft1li:r:r:ii?:nil<i)eii’:ifyii: jfgekéslgrigﬁsaiidagledgeshil:vi:;e<fIalr(iif):t two semesters.

)' the mﬂuenee _ revealed to tllepllrg That has changed, and these two current proposals may

This mformation is 3- matter of Pubhc My point is not to debate the merits of these propos- lead to even more changes.

‘ record, and though we often come EICFOSS DUI als. From what I’ve heard, these and the otherproposals Maybe times have changed. Maybe — especially in re-

tme in ‘he W b°°‘< at the    ‘F3 ‘tr S°‘“:.:::‘:‘::i::'::: %.:“l;‘.1:‘§3E;.:I?.E?.:Z:if;;y i‘§u§“£Z‘§I.§$Z‘;i§i¥Z‘2?.;Z
Police station’ we do not puiﬂlsh them. frilyhdeiiirgziesitiieieeanfi glfetpcéii/sli1<:‘t3s‘2/1(t)the IFC. I don’t to cio with a growing lack of faith in the fraternities’ ability

Smce only two Students Smce January _haVe believe that they made these proposals entirely of their to take care of their own business. We had better change
TeeeiVed DUI5» this Seems not to be a Senous own free will. this impression quickly. Who knows what they might look
3 problem at Washington and Lee. However, What bothers me, and should bother every fraternity to change next.

one intoxicated person who gets behind the
wheel can mean death for the driver or an - .
innocent bystander. Drunk drivers kill hun-  Mgnofes gi Shame

y llreds of people each year. This is a tradegy, a .
Afradegy that can easliy be avoided with one
easy step-don’t get behind the wheel.

‘ With the institution of BYOB this year and
two upcoming dry houses in the year 2000,
many suggest that incidents of drunk driving
will possibly increase due to more drinking in
the country and less drinking in fraternity

N houses.
A debate ensued in the Phi office about what
we, as a student paper, could, or should, do as
a deterrent for drunk driving. One person
I suggested that we print, as a matter of policy,
the names of students who receive DUIs.
Perhaps the feeling of shame in front of
classmates would serve as a deterrent to driv-
ll ing under the inﬂuence. We realize that this is
a policy change that will cause a ruckus on this
campus. As a student newspaper, we always
try to benefit the students as a whole and to
minimize any harm that may be caused as
result of our policies, editortial or articles.
Therefore, the Phi is very interested in
knowing what the student population thinks of
this idea, and would appreciate any feedback,
in the form of a signed letter to the editor, that
anyone would like to share.

.4. 44-. ‘J ‘A'A'.h‘.A'.A’A‘4‘L'A‘p‘A'a‘A'A'L'L.'A 1- am - 5': -. -a 'b‘A.‘A..‘_A.‘ACL -n~a.‘;.n:

...
' I
... ..-..-.......i...........r..-a...—.».;-..v.- ~.-.~.-.-.-.s.-.~.—i-1-.-. ..-.:. I‘A'ﬂ1AA‘.l‘l‘A‘l\'A ,.~. . - . .~.-.-.. » ..-..-s~

    



" C C   
 uote of the Week: 

" I_h°pe Pm turning it out when 17" What else can we blame on 81. Nlﬁo? 
sixty-two. "

'.'~'

. Voterparticipation can’t be counted on

—— Anonymous senior on sex

9 ’ I saw the voting booth in front of the Co-op during a stranger who, for all I know, could turn out to be the _ One problem with this proposal is that it gives stu+ 
the last student election, and a member of the Voting General Robert E. Lee of EC presidents. So I didn’t vote. dents who can write well an unfair advantage over less I
1‘ ~ Regulations Board waiting expectantly for people to fill Prior to the election, I could have learned more about talented writers, regardless of their political qualifications. E
E B   i out little slips of paper. I saw him watch me as I walked the candidates so that I would have been prepared to vote. But maybe that’s not such a drawback aﬂer all. Maybe ;
by. I didn’t vote. But I never have a lot of spare time, and when I carve up the President of the EC should be able to express herself 
Executive Edam Courtney Mm" [SE B  R what spare time I_do have, learning about the candidates in or himself well -— maybe that should be one of the quali- 
Jason Zach"   1 fl OW the next big election falls low on my list of priorities. fications for the lob. !
vi Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik ., l “ David B3181 99 I imagine that a lot of other students feel the same way. Through whatever means, it is important that students ,
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing e-"1 ~ —-——-——ﬂ— That may explain why nearly 1,000 of them did not vote. receive more information about candidates than what they l
N Ed? W," H d_ , Iknow that it’s important to vote. If Tabatha Soren To explore educating students about candidates, we receive now. With more information, we would have 5
ews I or I ar . . , . , . . . . , _
w&,Ife Editors Liz Dmer” has taught me anything, it s that I must vote as often as should ﬁrst consider students time restraints. This restnc- more incentive to vote. 
{ Tarall Gram V I can, even if I am bedridden in Pakistan. tion rules out a public meeting where candidates could ex- -
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg But I didn’t feel I knew the candidates well enough plain their qualiﬁcations to students. No one would go. . . .
Sports Edifvr John Stewart to vote for or against them. I have been in class with Instead, I suggest that both campus newspapers reserve 
Last  fvoillllylgfilée some of the candidates and I can attach faces with most their Opinion and Letters to the Editor pages for candidates ‘
phom Edna, Hamster Hovey of their names. Of the candidates I knew, however, I one week prior to an'electi.on. The candidates could write The Rm _tum Phi would like to a 010 ize
1; Online Editor Tom Wadlow did not know any well enough to decide whether they letters to the papers in which they would introduce them— g ,  g
4 g _ would be suited to the positions they wanted. selves and explain why they are running for office. This to the members Ofthe Women S 5W1m team
 g:::te':]°::]Etrz"'g Even worse, I didn’t know some of the candidates at way, students could learn about candidates, via the papers, for the errors in their letter to the editor last
all. Maybel don’thang around Lewis Hall often enough, at a time which would suit their needs ~— between class, week The mistakes were the P}, 1' ’S fault and
‘ ' h V . I but  have never met our new Executive Committee during a homework break or whenever fitted-their sched— in no way reflect the Original letter. We
The Rmg-tum Phi IS published Mondays during the President Beth Formidoni or our Vice President Wen ule best. Publishing information about the candidates would 1 . f h .
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Hutchinson.Iwould not feel comfortable voting against make that information portable and convenient. apo Oglze Ort ese m1stakeS'

 

University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding forthe Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and

I. subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee ‘E M (M
i Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and E"  fwd‘.
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise law,’ C_ 

independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
l’ Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
[um Phi‘ reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views" do not
i ' reflect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

7 Advertising does not reflect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

Lnblsol

 

i T pWhat do you like best ut L?§

   

'A'.'n.'p.‘: .-nu r. ;‘5‘A ._IK . 4,. _li_A_A._5_A

The Ring-rum Phi
«( 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. Virginia 24450 . » ,_ , . ,
Telephone: (540) 462-4060 ll “ . l , . ,, l . .
Fax, (540) 4624059 The small classes, professors, and I like the classes and the professors ‘i love the friendly people. ‘ The people are so nice. especially
Email; p;,,>@,.v1u,e,1,, the honor code.” and I like the architecture." my host!”

1 -Elizabeth Manning, Ft. Worth, TX ~ Lindsay Maybin, lrino, SC ~ Katie Mitchell, Wichita. KA —- Alison Trinidad. Corona. CA

    

. .‘.'n‘.‘a‘a

 

     

4
u

«
a
J
4

 

 

PAGE 6

ahitoi Humor, ©pinion andlieviews

 

 

The pitch: “It’s
like ‘Hawaii Five-

5
0 h m eets A
I H
Passenger57.
By Alex Christensen love a really good episode of“C.Hi.P.S.” Always have.
Pf11'M0vie Critic But the ﬁlmmakers here simply cannot even leave that

One good thing about “The Fugitive,” even though
it was adapted from a TV series, is that it left that heri-
tage behind deﬁnitively. Like all good TV-show adap-
tations, from “The Flintstones” to the “Brady Bunch”
ﬁlms to the SNL successes, “The Blues Brothers” and

TV-show level of good enough alone.

Think about it. You know what you’re going to get
when you tune in to any cheesy TV drama. That’s pre-
cisely why they’re successful. _You’ve got two part-
ners. One is old; one is young. Or one is the ladies’

man, one is the straight-

“Wayne’s World,” “The

Fugitive” succeeded be- 
cause it took full advan-
tage of the longer and yet
more succinct story arc and
the cinematic visual style.
This lends itself very well
to increased symbolism

[The film] wouldn’t have anywhere
near approached ‘The Fugitive’ in
quality, but there was never any dan-
ger of that, really, now was there?

arrow with wife and kids.
Or one is the bad-ass and
one is the moral compass.
They have conflicts.
Their boss gets on their
backs halfway through,
and it really unites them.

and less close-up-focused
than television’s visual style, to tell an old, familiar story
with panache and a certain freshness.

A couple of years later, in walks “US. Marshals,”
with different writers, a different director, and no
Harrison Ford. From the opening moments ofthe ﬁlm,
you feel like you’re watching the opening of a really
good episode of “Starsky and Hutch” or “C.Hi.P.S.”
Despite it’s appearance, this really is not a criticism. I

There’s a shoot—out. One
gives his life for the other, or tries to. Book ‘em, Danno.
There’s nothing too hard about it, except,of course,
doing it well.

“The Fugitive,” of course, didn’t follow this formula
at all. That was a very large part of its considerable
success. It knew it was a movie and so it set up a
protagonist and an antagonist who were both good
guys, but whose priorities put them in conflict. There’s

for FREE!

|\/Iorion Kelly
March 20, 1998

Washington and Lee will be
bowled over by Marian Kelly,
March 20 in the GHQ at 8
p.m.! She is a Writer and
featured comedian for the
“Tonight show with Jay Leno.”
She has also performed on
MTV’s “Half-Hour Comedy
Hour” and Evening at the
Improv.” She has received rave
revies dueto her reality based
act which is without the usual
cliches. She promises to ,
overwhelm the audience with
laughter and you get to see her

—sponsored by Fridays.’

last Wor
“US.  l\/Iediome :
T.V.Copd1amaatitsmostmedioc1e

MARCH 16, 1998

nothing quite as
breathtakingly
simple or effec-
tive in the se-
quel.

“U.S. Mar-
shals” starts out
with some pass-
able action and
then we get Rob-
ert Downey, Jr.,
a counterintelli-
gence agent, as
Tommy Lee
Jones’ foil in the
hunt for fugitive
Wesley Snipes.
So the conflict is
young vs. old,
experience vs.
inexperience,
and federal gov-
ernment vs.
shadowy spy-type agency. These are all rich conflicts
rife with potential. Ifthere had been a straightforward
hunt with some interesting chases interspersed with
scenes where these conflicts could flare up individu-
ally, “US. Marshals” would have been far more satisfy-
ing. It still wouldn’t have anywhere near approached
the quality visible in“The Fugitive,” but there was never
any danger of that, really, now was there?

Nevertheless, they throw even this potential away.
The plot is convoluted completely unnecessarily. In-
teresting characters are only barely shaded in. There
are no really good conflicts between Jones and Downey.
The resolution of the chase is deeply unsatisfying.
There aren’t even any good catchphrases, an absolute
must in my book for any self-respecting action ﬁlm, be
it something standard like “Face/Off” or “Supercop,”
or something a little bit more ambitious like “The Fugi-
tive.”

“I didn’t kill my wife.” “I don’t care.” There’s noth-
ing nearly that stunning in “Us. Marshals.” Not even
close.

And Marshal Sam Gerard is practically a cipher. Now,
I’ve seen Tommy Lee Jones in bad movies. I’ve seen

  

him in movies I wouldn’t show my dog. But if you
watch him closely, you can still enjoy your time in the
theater. He’s never simply just wisecracking or scen-
ery-chomping. He’s always creating a character who is
powerfully real and alive.

But even Tommy Lee Jones isn’t more powerful than
a bad director in an editing room. Sure, he can take all
the bad scenes in the world and make them work, but if
the director doesn’t know enough to keep as much of
him in as possible, he might as well have hired Jamie
Farr. Director Stuart Baird, who was so good with “Ex-
ecutive Decision,” seems to have lost all his good in-
stincts here. Jones still manages to shine through in a
couple of powerful moments, but there’s nothing like
his Oscar-winning “Fugitive” role here for him to work
with.

In the end, it’s unfortunate. Robert Downey, Jr. is
working hard. Wesley Snipes is ready for action. Irene
Jacob, the ﬁne French actress from “Red” and “Othello,”
seems poised to do something interesting the whole
ﬁlm.

But, in the end, none of these potential strengths
pays off.

    

 

   Tennis vs. ,
~  qg.i;“:aVar:,.e,ity.;.g.§:<>‘;iirts.an 7:00 p.m.~ Lec-

t’i1rei:,.“Hitler,Florence, and the Manipula-
 oafgtl1e.'_ Renaissance,” -Roger, Cr/urn,

 

 

 '00  A afgieball vsglsavannah Arti’&“
.  Field. « ‘>1?’-5 J 7330 ’p.m. ,L_ectur_,e:
f?NATQ.%En!iérg§ enft a:,1fs1r European Src.¢gi—

   ’ Ambassador"
’Janusz.Reiter_ofPoland. Commerce School,

  8:;00‘p.pi.’rSenior Recital:.Mary

‘New ~‘98,’ cello. Lee Chapel.’ :1: WEDNES-

DAY 51‘? 4:00 p.m. Women’sLacrosse vs.
Lynchburg, Liberty Hall Field. a 7:30 p.m.

CONTACT “presents “The Biochemical

0 Challenge to,Evolution,f’ Michael Bane,’

,Carter. ScienceCenter Rm. 2014. #153

 sioredfshowing oifsskin Deep,” Science

“limeirceiy Schoolpkm. 221, book signing to fol-

diuﬁistnt.Aqditolr:.um.‘ as TUESDAYJ: ,
i If A  L ’ :.’‘.‘Mrs’.,’.Brown.’’ ‘»*I~“=”8:00
  presents comedian
Ingram 1{e11y,.a.t”;he GHQ. =>I¢ SATUR-
 l2’:00_p.m. Women’s Tennis vs.
rM,ary(W,ashif1gton, Varsity Courts. #14 1:00

Northen’Auditorin1n. y; 5‘: Lecture‘: “Silver
Rights: The Struggle for Justice in Missis-
sippi,” Constance Curry and Mac Bertha

  :00 p.m. , PRIDE 1 spon-

.Center"iRrn. A214. §I¢ 7:3n,p,m. Reading
 Dan Philippon and “Mike Branch, ‘au-
thors of “The Height of our Mountains:*I$Ia-
turepwriting {mm Virginia’s Blue Ridge
Mountains and Shenandoah. Valley,” Corn?

low. >’PI§\8:00 p.m. University Chorus con-
cert: “Music for the Four Seasons,” Lenfest
Center: Q   *1‘? 7:30 p.m,._Fi1rn

p.m.IMen’s Tennis) vs. Wooster.  7/:‘30—
p.m. Film Society presents “Mrs. Brown.”
3%? 8:00 p.m. Sonoklect 20th,,Century"Vo-
cal Fest, Lenfest Center. *3? Right’On at
Sigma Nu 1% Gran Torino at PiKa J

Work for @112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

The Phi is always looking for people to ﬁll po-
sitions with all aspects of the paper’s operaton.
If you would like to write, come to our story board
meetings on Wednesday nights at 6:30 p.m. at the
Phi ofﬁce, or e-mail us at: phz'@wlu.edu.

The Phi is also looking for help with advertising

and circulation. We offer commission on ad sales,
so you can make money! If you might be inter-
ested in advertising, contact Business Manager
Jill J amieson at:j]'amz'es0@wZu.edu. Circulation
interest should be directed to Matt Craig at:

mcraig@wZu. edu.

i

PHOTO COURTESY WARNER BROS. ‘( 1
It

5 .

 

 

.4

4'7

A

lN&iLlFE

Y

.51

V

- Fm ‘
A  <. 7" '~‘:
1' Q__'~ '._M*x K‘. 
t>—-9L” x_'- .32
PO‘ ‘I "~"

PAGE 3

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 18

The one act plays next weekend
promise sex, Violence and much more.

JAMS 6. LBVBUHN LIBRARY

"“5*W»‘II‘:t't.“‘T

ON, VA M490

HAR27‘%

& ms in-avaasm

SPORTS

PAGE 4

Jared Fribush placed 12th at
NCAA’s, women’s lacrosse
assumes Control of the ODAC
and baseball loses to Mary
Washington.

U112 ilting-tum {ﬂirt 

Kelley Totten disproves
the common
misperoeption that
watching Fox TV is bad
for your health.

PAGE 6

Bulk Rate
US Postage

MARCH 23, 1998

Students, locals
nabbed at police
DUI checkpoint

 A City, County and State police
roadblock caught Saturday night

drivers unaware; about 40 were
charged with drunken driving.

BY WILL HARDIE

News EDITOR

N A About 40 motorists were charged with drunk driv-

ing at a police roadblock on Route 11 in East Lex-
ington Saturday night.

State police drafted in extra officers from Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge County police departments to run
the checkpoint.

Virginia Military Institute cadet Ryan Weisiger was
arrested and charged with DUI at 11:51. Washington and
Lee students Megan Mulligan and Robert Tucker were
both charged with reckless driving and DUI, though not
at the checkpoint.

VMI cadets face a minimum punishment of a year’s
barracks conﬁnement if found guilty of DUI, and could be
suspended for a year or expelled. W&L students face social
and conduct probation and 20 hours’ community service.

Junior J .R. Leitch was among the many W&L students
who made it through the roadblock. “I think it’s good to have
DUI checkpoints,” he said. “But it’s pretty nerve-racking even
if you haven’t been drinking.”

Senior Milagros Daly was also stopped. “I thought they
were polite,” she said, “[but] the whole idea makes me un-
comfortable because they are just stopping them without
suspicion. But I understand the need for it.”

Daly also said she thought the police could have cho-
sen a more effective location on a quiet country road. This
is the third checkpoint police have set up in Lexington
this year. Previous ones were located on Nelson Street
outside Harris Teeter, and on Route 11 at Cameron Hall.

' Police must apply in advance for approval for a check-

point, which must be targeted at a specific type of driving
offense. Saturday’s roadblock targeted alcohol; others
have focused on vehicle defects.

According to Lexington Police Officer Keith Haraway,
checkpoints are intended both to catch drunk drivers and
to deter potential offenders. Haraway said he hopes sober
people pulled over at the checkpoint will think twice be-
fore drinking and driving in the future. He said that their
reasoning might be, “If I decide to drink and drive, they’ 11
be sitting here next time.”

Haraway said that the stiff DUI penalties have suc-
ceeded in deterring people from drinking and driving. “1
have noticed a reduction in DUIs in recent years, and we’re
glad for that,” he said. He also attributed that reduction to
cooperation between police and the Interfratemity Coun-
cil, and to the Live Drive sober driving program at W&L.

N I G H T  L  C  as Senior Nate Taylor, a Hopper Genie, performs at the store on

celebrate the release of their CD. It will be available within a few weeks. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Some W&L students think drinking age should be 18

Va. creates binge drinking task force

BY SARAH MELDRUM
““““‘j‘ STAFF WRITER
arlier this school year, five
Virginia college students
died within a month be-
cause of alcohol. One fell from a
dorm window, one appears to
have fallen down stairs and three
died in drunk driving accidents.

Students and administrators
have been paying a lot more at-
tention to campus drinking since
then. Members ofthe public have
clamored for action.

Some have even suggested
lowering the legal drinking age to
18 to take away the rebellious appeal
of alcohol for college freshmen.

Now, the attorney general’s of-
fice has created a task force to study
binge drinking and suggest ways of
changing a collegiate culture.

“I do not believe that lower-
ing the drinking age is an appro-
priate, viable or beneficial public
policy. So, let us take that off the
table right now,” Virginia’s Attor-
ney General Mark Earley said in
a speech March 9.

That speech launched his Task
Force on Drinking By College Stu-
dents. Initiated by former Attorney
General Richard Cullen, the task
force will study the negative effects
of binge drinking and should make
recommendations on how to ad-
dress binge drinking.

Sophomore Kappa Alpha Christian
Batcheller supports the promotion.

“I think that kids drink any-
way; ifthey want to, they will do
it,” he said. “When you’re trying
to hide the problem with a 21
drinking age, it makes it more
dangerous.”

Sophomore Chi Psi Stephen
Hopkins also thinks that the
drinkiung age should be lowered
to 18.

“If you’re old enough to live on
your own, you are old enough to
make decisions about alcohol.”

Death is the most drastic and
well publicized consequences of
collegiate drinking, but it is far
from the most common.

Earley cited a nationwide study
done by the National Center on
Addiction and Substance Abuse at
Columbia University, which
found that alcohol plays a role in
more than 40 percent of academic
problems and in 28 percent of col-
lege and university dropouts.

Earley said that the task force will
hold team meetings and public hear-
ings throughout the state to hear from
the public about binge drinking, and
to build strong community support for
its work.

The 44 members of the task
force are divided into four teams,
each of which has specific ques-
tions to consider. The members

include university and college of-
ficials, students, business leaders,
parents, citizens and Elizabeth
McClanahan, Esquire, Chair-
woman of the State Council of
Higher Education.

Earley hopes the task force will
lead discussion to produce what
he calls common sense solutions
to change the culture of binge
drinking on campuses.

The task will not be easy. Some
students fail to take advantage of
the academic and character build-
ing opportunities.

For them, Earley said, “college
is one endless party void of any
sense of personal responsibility or
self-discipline.”

Earley wants to promote talks
among students, educators, par-
ents, public leaders and citizens
to find ways to change the alco-
hol-laden culture on many college
and university campuses.

A State Council ofHigher Edu-
cation survey found that 38 per-
cent of students at four-year
schools in Virginia engage in
binge drinking.

A college alcohol study done
by the Harvard School of Public
Health in 1993 found that “being
white, involved in athletics, or a
resident of a fraternity or soror-
ity made it more likely that a stu-
dent would be a binge drinker.”

Batcheller disagrees with the
national statistic.

“I know plenty of white, male,
fraternity members who don’t
drink,” he said. Bathcheller, who
plays football and baseball thinks
the same goes for athlete drinking.

“I seem to think that drinking is
more widespread and it doesn’t have
to do with athletes in particular.”

Senior Ericka Shapard, a white so-
rority member involved in athletics has
mixed feelings regarding the statistic.

“The high rate of white drink-
ing doesn’t surprise me as much
as the athlete drinking,” she said.
“But the fact that athletes drink more
on a national level surprises me.”

Earley said the way to combat
binge drinking is to change the
collegiate culture in Virginia. He
said he hoped the task force will
“dismantle the culture of binge
drinking and replace it with com-
mon sense.”

So far the task force has met
only once, at its kickoff. The first
task force team will meet and hold
a public hearing at Longwood
March 31.

After six more meetings, in-
cluding a national symposium on
campus alcohol practices, the task
force is expected to present its fi-
nal recommendations to Earley.

Andrea Ewing contributed to
this article.

Housekeeping
makes things
messy for SNu

 When Dean Atkins arrived at Sigma
Nu on Monday morning, he said he
found two ﬂoors of the house covered
with eggs, bird seed and what looked
like cake icing.

BY WILL HARDIE

NEWS EDITOR

All five Sigma Nu pledges worked through the night
of Sunday, March 15 to clean up the disaster zone their
fraternity brothers had left them. But by moming the mess
was still so bad that buildings and grounds workers re-
treated in disgust.

“They had smashed eggs and thrown bird seed all over
the hallways on the second and third ﬂoors, and there was
what looked like cake icing slung around there too. It was
a mess,” said Associate Dean of Students Leroy Atkins,
who was called in to witness the scene.

“It was a little excessive,” Sigma Nu President Dari
Hendricks conceded last night. “It was a rough weekend.”

The Interfratemity Council gave Sigma Nu a week
of social probation, to allow the house judicial board
to find the culprits and decide on punishments.
Hendricks will report the results of that investigation
at tonight’s IFC meeting.

“Obviously this kind of vandalism is unacceptable,”
said IF-C President Jason Callen. “It came as a surprise to
the IFC — the Sigma Nu leadership has been strong, and
it was disappointing to see them slip up.

“I am hoping Dan is going to come in and say what the
house has done to punish the individuals who did this,”
said Callen. Previous vandalism incidents have been pun-
ished by several weeks of social probation and a ﬁne of
150 percent of the cost of repair. “There is no strict for-
mula, but we are expecting something along those lines,”
Callen said.

The “hell week” of intense pledge activity leading up
to initiation is supposed to be a cathartic bonding experi-
ence, but the Sigma Nu pledges faced a colossal task. “This
was the worst I have ever seen,” said Callen. B&G work-
ers were “working overtime” through the week to scrub
out egg-yolk stains on the walls, Callen said.

When asked whether the pledges had been given an
unreasonable task, Hendricks said, “It would have been
hard to get it all done. I don’t know if it was impossible.”

Director of Buildings and Grounds Scott Beebe said

Saturday to that it was absolutely unacceptable for B&G workers to

{D SEESIGMAPAGEZ

R “ raaai..s.a. :ran;

, .Yo’u‘ want toydiﬁit 
, ipyouire scared, bixtfﬁiend ‘

V .¢hatIt,§jYou{ii loveit,,you’1llove 
 ,they-chant; Gripping tliegseat with;
I sWeatypalms,you screaniandiyour 7 ’

heart plummets to your  You are
now ready for the Volcano. ‘ ”

I iiamnmsuspendeasin

  Wiﬂ}:_1§g3.idéns1inglﬁ°¢{. f
jnthe iicartofthe  '

3A: .speedsH»up tp';7o’mf.;§1ii,,,
' . ’ energy‘ sendsithe.

For some students, this expen'-H 

M A ence couldbelindulging inga forbid-I
  den volcano at Hanan But

forthose  atlieﬁart,tti’e new
rol1erAooastér'atParairiouiit’s,Ki,ngi’s

Dominion mightbetheﬁrstxandlbest-I
. quick ﬁx.for,Spring  ,King.’,s

Dominion starts its season Saturday, A

March 23 with $25 million /worth”

of new attractions.

According to someiW8tLl’stu“ I

dents, thenew attractions at

King’s Dominion were fa ‘long?

time coming.

“King’s Dominion  sornciar-i
eas that are run down,”‘said_ junior‘

Erika Woodson. “The old area,
Hanna Barbarra Land, iskind of

don’t get rid of old stuff.”

The principil attraction is the
world’s first suspended roller
coaster powered by linear induc-
tion, meaning that the Volcano
will utilize electromagnetic en-
ergy to blast straight out of the

enter.iloi’fthe’cra er: The;

‘en,follow,si1i§’ﬁi*stoffourheai1:‘o5llg
,circ1iii"g bacl<”.at‘ou:rid§the i
ioiniy§iiui‘b¢1foir¢“.dmppin7s- an°*h°f
0.3-:;»,i. ‘nd-jreturning to the I

pfecial‘ lerieas "andfa muflti-‘ ,
midi , /6,1316 experience end this

o§n1iriute~ride‘, in an attempt to

[r’e"create the experience of being
A ‘thrust fromga volcano. ,
1  ‘A Other new. attractions in-
grade James Bond 007: License

to Thrill and Nicktoons Block

.-“Party. , 
delapidated. They add new stuff but —

» Regular priced ticketsxiarc
$31.99, a little pricey for starvg,’

ing students. However, coupons ~

good for $8 off are available at
Burger King’. 7 A ’

Information from this article
was taken from a King ’siDomin-
ion news release. ’

  

 23, 1998

 SIGMA

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

be expected to clean up such a mess.
Sigma Nu was given a pledge
violation for keeping its pledges
in the house overnight, so their
pledgeship ended on Monday.

technically.” What does that mean?
“There are some technicalities we
need to resolve.” What technicalities?
“These are not matters I want to dis-
cuss outside the chapter,” Hendricks
said.

If the pledges have not been fully
initiated, Sigma Nu may face further
IFC sanctions.

Because oftheir social probation,

PAGE 2

I1€WS

ATTENTION COLLEGE SENIORS: WHAT DO
I DO NEXT?

Be a live—in onanny for UVA professors’ family for
one year, starting August 1. Regular weekday
schedule, generous salary, paid vacations and
holidays, health insurance, free room and board,

- I
pit stop _u_
take Cl broke
from the race I

The deadline for pledge initia-
tion was yesterday, and it is un-
clear whether the Sigma Nu
pledges initiated in time.

“They are no longer pledges,”
said Hendricks. Does that mean
they have initiated? “They have,

Sigma Nu had to cancel a perfor-
mance by the band “Right On,” which
had been scheduled for Saturday
night. The band had already been paid
for, so they played instead at a pri-
vate house on Route 39, owned by
non—Sigma Nu members.

own spacious living quarters (with bathroom and
seperate entrance), all utilities, summer pool
membership, privacy, respect. Non-smokers, good
drivers, college graduates or students only.

Call 804-924-7815 or e-mail aw2b@virginia.edu.

Going home or just taking a trip up/down I-81,
stop in at Mint Springs Pit Stop (Exit 217-EXXON)
Purchase Sgallons or more of gas, show college ID
receive free 20 oz coffee, cappuccino, or fountain drink

Admissions Counselor

The W & L Admissions Ofﬁce is now
accepting applications for a possible
admissions counselor position. All
interested graduating seniors should
submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Wednesday,
March 25, 1998 to
Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions
Office of Admissions

U.8.NllW§

Fred Drasner
Chief Executive Officer

   

from

(L)

Dear Student:

one grade. One roll of the dice to measure your performance.

school, they should certainly be an important part of the analysis.

issue of the magazine to help you manage your life.
Good luck in law school and good luck on making the right choice.
Kindest Regards.

Sincerely,

” Shipping and linmlliiig tlmrges tultlitional.

1290 Avenue of the Americas, Suite 600, New York, NYil0104l,_  -

Lexington, Virginia

New Management and Renovations

Econo Lodge

Accommodations:
'48 Attractive Guest Rooms

°Color Cable TV - free ESPN and HBO

‘King Beds and/or Two Double Beds

‘Scenic Mountain Views from your Room

‘Non-Smoking Rooms Available

°Free Continental Breakfast: Free Local Phone Calls

‘Restaurants within Walking Distance

Attractions:

‘Natural Bridge ——\ 1.6 inilesgg
‘Virginia Military Institute
‘Washington & Lee University
°Virginia Horse Center

'Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

An Open Letter to Students
Planning to Attend Law School

U.S.News & World Report

DON’T YOU JUST HATE TO BE GRADED? Well, by their shrill protests about U.S.News & World Report law school
rankings, so do most of the deans of the law schools you are considering. However, as a law school graduate with both a
].D. and a LLM. degree, I can tell you that these same deans will subject you to rigorous grading. You will be required
to endure lectures from tenured professors who have not changed their class notes since the Battle of Hastings. Then,
after attending Class for a full semester, you will be given one exam to determine your grade. One exam, one semester,

At Ll.S.News & World Report we are far more equitable (to use a legal term). We have a multifaceted, multi-
dimensional, sophisticated ranking system developed and evolved over many years to give you guidance on what
may be one of your largest financial investments and certainly one of the most important choices for your career in
law and perhaps beyond. While our law school rankings should not be the only criteria in your choice of a law

Get your copy of Ll.S.News & World Reports Best Graduate Schools guide on newsstands now. Or, to make it easier for
you to see the book that 164 law school deans would prefer you not see (notwithstanding their commitment to the First
Amendment), call l-800/836-6397 (ask for extension 5105) and I will arrange for a copy of the book to be sent directly
to you at $1 off the newsstand price.* This will also ensure that you have a copy of these important rankings because, as
a result of publicity surrounding the deans’ determination to have you ignore the rankings, they are a very hot item.

These law school rankings are a small part of our philosophy of News You Can Lise”: information we bring you in each

 

Econo

Location: ,
At I-64 and U.S.l1

RR 7 Box 81
Lexington, VA 24450
703-463-7371
Toll-Free Reservations
1-800-424-4777

to Roanoke ~1«

 

ft‘

 

 

MARCH 23, 1998

 

RYAN TRUAX ANDTIM CLEARY bring
violence to the Johnson stage with “Gladiators. "
Pl/l3I.I( '11)’ PHOTO

BRIAN PRISCO, Gordon Meeker, Danica Oliver,
Patrick Driscoll and Eric Zavolinsky chat in
“Businessman ’s Lunch. " Pi/13u(fr1rPHo'1o

ERIN MU LLAN EY, Colin Tate and Drew Higgs
. deal with their insecurities in the one-act
V “Impromptu. ”P(/H1.1('1ir PH()’l‘()

A JOSH CARPENTER and Francis Mc Williams
find solutions to their problems in
"Philadelphia. " Pl/BI.I(7l'IY Pnoro

W&life

PAGE 3

The seven plays opening this weekend for the annual

Festival of One Act plays have it all.

The One Acts are ﬁlled with fun and drama, and the short
length of each play allows the audience to watch multiple
plots unfold without having to wait for hours and hours.
Each one-act play has its own unique style, and the best part
about the series is that it is a result of all of the hard work
done by students. The Theatre Department’s directing class
chooses and directs the plays in which actors both old and
new to the Lenfest Stage perfonn.

The plays are perfomied
on two separate bills. Bill A,
which includes the plays “Im-
promptu,” “Businessman’s
Lunch,” “Here We Are” and
“Gladiator” will be performed
on March 26 at 8 p.m. and
March 28 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.
“The Love Talker,” “The Phila-
delphia” and “Ramie,” which
comprise Bill B, will be per-
fonned on March 27 at 8 p.m.,
on March 29 at 2 p.m. and on
March 31 at 8 p.m.

Seduction. Disappointment. Hilarity. Violence. Paranoia.

Of

IMPDOMDIU is “raw, and
even terrifying,” according to

a preview

this play, the actors them-
selves play actors, and its
effect is quite interesting to
see. “Impromptu” is about
every actor’s worst night-
mare —— being on stage with-
out a clue as to why or what
to say. “The actors are
stranded up there with noth-
ing more than their own in-
securities,” said Adams. “Im-
promptu” stars Erin Multaney, Colin Tate and Drew Higgs.

bUS|llfSS/‘\ﬂll'S lUllCl1 is a comedy about corporate
America. “It’s also perfect for W&L,” said director Wes
Armstrong, “a school that prepares so many students for
the corporate world, often failing to mention what this world
is really like.” Actors include Brian Prisco, Gordon Meeker,
Danica Oliver, Patrick Driscoll and Eric Zavolinsky.

llfl?f Wf lll?f takes place in the l930’s in a Pullman
traincar. John Bubb and Cassie Ritter play a newly mar-
ried couple who realize that they don’t have as much in
common as they thought. “Dorothy Parker uses her wit
and humor to show how men and women relate, and as a
commentary on relationships in general,” said director
Megan Johnson. She hopes those in attendance will be

by
Ginger
Phillips

AAAAAAAAAAAA

ffSl|Vﬂl

director Shelley Adams. In - :   E

VVVVVVVVVVVV

as impressed as she by her “wonderful cast" of Cassie
Ritter and John Bubb.

lllf OlﬂD|lllOP is an unusual play about a lifetime
convict and his “warped” behavior. “The play does con-
tain violence,” said T.W. Leshner, director. “Consider-
ing that a person cannot turn on the TV without seeing
much the same thing, I think it’s valuable to try and
understand the motives which underlie violent behav-
ior.” Ryan Truax and Tim Cleary star in “The Gladiator."

lllf lOVf llllltfl? is a story rooted in myth and legend
about an ‘evil spirit that seduces men into insanity deep
within the backwoods of
Virginia. “It appealed to
me because it is so
twisted from the norm,"
said director Matthew
Kirby-Smith. “The evil in
the forest is personiﬁed
in the Love Talker, an im-
mortal spirit that has
driven men insane and to
their deaths for ages."
The cast of this play in-
cludes An Wise, Justine
Moncrief, Matt Clymer.
and Susannah Carr.

In lllf Dll|lﬂDflDlllﬁ

Francis McWilliams
stars as Mark, at man
who is having a terrible
day. He consults his
friend Al, played,by
Josh Carpenter, about a
solution. “Although
the premise is very cl-
ementary, the actual
situation is ridiculous,“
said Alyssa Sellers.
Also starring in “The
Philadelphia” is Erika VanHelden.

l2lllI‘lli should also prove to be an interesting play.
Its plot involves Wes, a white college strident, who
meets Raimie, a black woman whom he remembers
from his childhood. Writer/director Alex Christensen
believes that the Wes and Raimie’s “conversation
and its consequences” make the play a compelling
event to watch. This one act stars Jason Miller and
Sybil Prince.

So now that you’re intrigued, make sure that you
see some, or even all, ofthese amazing short plays.
Tickets are not required for these performances. and
since the one acts are always a popular event at W& L,
plan to arrive at Lenfest early to snag your seat.

Support the National Conirnitteeito
prevent child abuse Project Horizon

  

Shamroclt
Project

Basketball
Tournament

Sunday March 29
1 pm. Warner Center
Ask any Kappa Delta For details

I Mayo Island proudly hosts a series of random concerts through out the sum-

 

mer known as the 

MAYO ISLAND CONCERT SERIES
To BENEFIT FEED THE FUTURE

The first concert in this series will be 

Sundav, llnril 20th, 1098
2:00 - 7:00 PM
0n Mata Island

(|nttienmana,Va.)

  

g I

with special guest T.B.A.

tickets $lll.llll

0n Sale Right Now At All Ticketmaster taeatians
0r cnatae ltll Phone at 004-2020100

All Ages Events Kids 6 and Under are Free -— Rain or Shine —
No Dogs or Coolers

Event intaimatian 004-043-0001 0t
www.mavaisIantl.aam

MAYO ISLAND IS LOCATED ON THE 14TH STREET BRIDGE IN DOWNTOWN
RICHMOND, VA LIMITED PARKING IS AVAILABLE ON THE ISLAND ADDI-
TIONAL PARKING IS AVAILABLE IN STREETS AND LOTS THROUGH OUT
SHOCKOE SLIP /SHOCKOE BOTTOM A FREE SHUTTLE TO THE ISLAND MAY BE
PICKED UP AT THE CORNER OF 15TH ST. AND MAIN STREET IN FRONT OI’ SEA
BREEZE CAFE.

 

 

PAGE 4

Fribrush
finishes
12th at

NCAA’s

Washington and Lee sophomore
Jared Fribush earned honorable men-
tion All-America honors after placing
12111 in the 50-yard freestyle at the
NCAA Division III Swimming and Div-
ing Championships at the St. Peter's
Rec Plex on Thursday night.

Fribush matched his career-best
time of2l.15 seconds to post the 12th
place ﬁnish. He swam a time of2l.25
seconds in the morning qualiﬁer and
was seeded 16th heading into the
consolation ﬁnals, and shaved a tenth
ofa second off his time to move up
four spots.

Fribush also placed 31st inthe 200-
yard freestyle in a time of 1:47.89, and
38th in the l00—yard freestyle in a time
of48. 13.

—from staﬂ reports

Dorofeeva
Wins at
Roanoke

Junior Natasha Dorofeeva won the
1,500 meter run in a time of 5:01 to lead
Washington and Lee’s women’s track
team at the Roanoke Invitational. W&L
also placed second in the distance
medley relay and got third place fin-
ishes from Meredith Mylnar in the jav-
elin and Lauren McKeever in the 800.

McI(eever’s outlook for the season
is optimistic: “It’s been a great season
so far. There’s a really positive, fun
atmosphere among my teammates.
We‘re looking foward to a challeng-
ing meet against Mary Washington
next weekend.” When _asked about
Dorofeeva’s success, McKeever re-
marked: “Natasha’s an amazing run-
ner. She’s so versatile. Usually, she runs
the 800. Her victory in the 1500 show
just how talented she is.”

— from staff reports

Baseba

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
 PORTS WRITER
s they often say in baseball, a
walk is as good as a hit. This
roved true for Mary Wash-
ington College yesterday afternoon as
the Eagles used 11 Washington and
Lee walks by seven different pitchers
to down the Generals 10-3 in a
nonconference battle in
Fredericksburg.
The loss dropped the Generals to 4-6
on the season as W&L ended up 1-1
for the week.

Mary Washington jumped out to a
5-0 lead before the Generals came
charging back with three iuns in the
top of the sixth inning including an
RBI-single by sophomore

Christian Batchellor and a pinch-
hit two run single by junior E.J.

   

MARCH 23, 1998

  
 
    
    
  

 

 1 ;DRII.LED.'..
Q, guniorilférré Wéwbburn
.  an_ace_pgst his » _

  
 

  

néznningilieays foltowingi
a" 7-0. shutout qj:Ripon g

 

Women’s tennis annihilates

Lynchburg and Roanoke

BY FRANCES GROBERG
-—TOPINioNs EDITOR

e women’s tennis team made
short work of their opponents
this week, improving their sea-

son record to 1 1-3.

On Saturday against Mary Wash-
ington, the Generals defeated the
Eagles by a score of 9-0. All ofthe
Generals posted wins, including
Ericka Shapard, Brooke Hartzell,
Berry Blankinship, Erin Eggers,

Christina Campbell and Anne
Castello in singles, and Blankinship/
Shapard, Hartzell/Eggers and
Campbell/Castello in doubles.

The squad, split between
Lynchburg and Roanoke on Thurs-
day, defeated both teams 9-0.

Wins were recorded at Roanoke
in singles by Hartzell, Eggers,
Campbell, Castello, Brumby and Bell,
and in doubles by Eggers/Hartzell,
Campbell/Castello and Bell/Brumby.

I walks to a loss

Murphy. That was the closest the
Generals got, however, as MWC
went on to outscore the Generals 5-
0 in the final three innings to cap-
ture the victory.

“It was a tough day to play base-
ball and our pitchers just had a rough
day,” said junior catcher E.J. Murphy.
“They pitched us out of some tough
jams, but the weather defenitley af-
fected us”

“Wejust didn’t play well,” added
junior second baseman Parick Hall.
“It’s easy to blame things on the
weather. It was a factor, but we have
to take responsibility for our play.”

On Tuesday afternoon at Smith
Field the Generals’ bats came alive
as W&L pounded out 13 hits on the
way to a 8-4 victory over the Bees.

The Generals had six doubles,

including three by E.J. Murphy, who
went 3-5 on the day.

The Bees had 13 hits oftheir own
but they were all singles.

Errors also played a big role in the
ball game. A total of eleven errors were
committed in the game: four by
Savanah A&D and seven by W&L.

Freshman Josh Glober picked up
the win to go to 2-0 on the season as
he pitched the first innings and allowed

. no earned runs.

Chris Stakem moved over from his
ﬁrst base position to pitch the ﬁnal
three innings and earn the save for the
Generals.

Savanah A&D is managed by
former Boston Red Sox pitcher Louis
Tiant, who was seen signing a few
autographs for various Generals play-
ers and fans after the game.

THE BASEBALL TEAM claimed their fourth victory last Tuesday against Savannah A&D by a score of 8-4. This

weekend, on a cold day in F redricksburg, the Generals lost I0-3 against Mary Washington, bringing their season

record to 4-6.

H()1.l.lSTI;‘R Ho VEY/PHOZD EDI-10R».

The team dropped only four games
to Roanoke.

At Lynchburg, Shapard, Laura
Schramm, Mina Guiahi, Elizabeth
Gay, Ashley Buck and Ann Richard
all recorded singles victories.

In doubles, wins were posted by
Shapard/Guiahi, Hays/Schramm and
Buck/Gay.

Next for the Generals is yet another
split team effort on Saturday at Guilford
and at Bridgewater.

i-‘ 0 R 1/...-

and related fields.

I’. I) L.‘ C A T I () N

hen it comes to planning a comfort-

able future, Americas best and
brightest turn to the expert: TIAA-CREF.
With over $200 billion in assets under
management, were the world's largest
retirement system, the nation's leader in
customer satisfaction‘? and the overwhelin-

ing choice of people in education, research,

Expertise You Can Count On

For 80 years, TIAA-CREI7 has introduced
intelligent solutions to Americas long-term
planning needs. We pioneered the portable
pension, invented the variable annuity. and
popularized the very concept of stock investing
for retirement. In fact, we manage the largest

stock account in the world.

Women’s lax
wins two, takes
control of ODAC

BY JASON ZACHER
T-— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team took control of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference this
week, beating two top conference op-
ponents. Lynchburg College fell 13-9
on Wednesday and Randolph-Macon
fell 8-6 on Sunday.

Going into Sunday’s game, W&L
(7-0, 5-0 ODAC) was tied with
Randolph-Macon atop the ODAC.
Randolph-Macon’s (4-2, 4-1 ODAC)
victory over Roanoke College last
week set up the showdown. The game
was played at R-MC on Sunday after
rain in Ashland, Va., caused the game
to be postponed on Saturday.

Sophomore attack Katherine
Riddle and senior defender Betsy
Howe each scored two goals Sunday
to lead the Generals. Seniors Mary Jo
Mahoney, Lorraine Taurassi and
Whitney Parker also scored one goal
each. Freshman attack Liz Borges
added a goal and two assists, bring-
ing her team—leading point total to 25.

Randolph-Macon scored the ﬁrst
goal less than two minutes into the
game, but the Generals scored four un-
answered goals from the 16:28 to the
9:31 mark, taking a 5-3 lead at halftime.
R-MC would come within one on two
other occasions, but could not man-
age to score the tying goal. Randolph-
Macon’s Carrie Winker scored all three
of her goals in the first half.

The two-goal margin held up
through the second half, behind strong
play by the defense. Despite W&L’s
trouble with the transition game, the
defense held RM-C to only 15 shots
on goal. Sophomore goalie Ginny
Jemigan continued her strong season,
making nine saves. '

“The defense was awesome today,”
said Borges. “We lost the ball often in
transition, but the defense kept
Randolph-Macon from capitalizing.”

Jemigan commended her defense
after the game.

“In every crucial situation, they

R I‘) S If A R C

a It 4)

 

OVER ONE MILLION OF
THE BEST MINDS IN
AMERICA HAVE ALREADY
CHOSEN THE BEST
RETIREMENT SYSTEM.

TIAA-CREF.

Today. TIAA-CREI’ can help you

achieve even more ofyour financial goals.

think alike.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-crel'.org

...
u A A
0' Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.
-1097 I)/\l.l5/\I< I)L‘lIl\L'(I cmu..i...mt.. i-:\.iIl.-...t- R......5. 11..., |v‘»lll)lll\.llli£ |\ ..., 5.....»..mi. ..i i..u..-.- .~.....l.... Cltlil’ lt’lliII\i|lC> .....l lIVIL*lk'.\l\

in the Tim RL‘;.Il i-xi IlL' ‘\A.tnllI\l (tl’(' .I....-.l...i..I 1., ‘l'l\.\—Cl{I1l‘ln.ln.i!...il.m.| i......i.........l s. l\l\«‘~ i'...~ IHHIL‘ t4)IIl|III'Ii \IVl|ilII\.tIl(iIl, m. I...l..,;_v

(Il;|r‘g(‘s .mil L'X'IL‘H.\t'>. Kxlll 1 Run X-1'1-27.3.3. mi-.,...... =..=.n<J, 1... ill.-,1...-,..-.1...“ i<,»...1 111.11. ...,~i~i.lII_, Ilrllill ,.,...,.,.-.1.” .1-.,.1.n.n..-_\. W 2, us

From tax-deferred annuities and IRAs
to mutual funds, you'll find the flexibility
and choice you need, backed by a proven
history of performance. remarkably low
expenses. and peerless commitment to
personal service.
Find Out For Yourself
To learn more about the world's

premier retirement organization, talk to
one oi‘ our retirement planning experts
at I 800 842-2776 (8 a.m.—ll p.m. HT).
Or better still, speak to one oliyour
colleagues. Find out why, when it comes

to planning for tomorrow. great minds

made a big play,” Jemigan said. “They
played so wonderﬁilly; I couldn’t have
asked for anything more from them.”

The Generals’ 7-0 start is the best
since 1993, when they opened 9-0 en
route to an NCAA tournament bid.

Wednesday, the Generals exacted
revenge on Lynchburg College 13-9.
Lynchburg handed the Generals their
first loss of the season last year.

W&L jumped out to an early 3-0
lead, but Lynchburg fought back. At
the twelve-minute mark in the first half,
the game was tied 3-3. The Generals
owned the rest of the half, outscoring
the Hornets 6-1. Lynchburg pulled to
11-9 with only 3:32 remaining in the
game, but Parker scored two goals to
put the game away.

Parker, last week’s ODAC Player
of the Week, finished the game with
four goals to lead the Generals.
Borges and Riddle chipped in three
goals each. Taurassi scored two and
junior midfielder Lauren Francis
added one goal.

The women will spend this week
playing two non-conference matches
before next week’s conference show-
down against Roanoke. Colby College
comes to town on Thursday for a 4
p.m. game, and on Saturday, Mary
Washington heads to Lexington at 2
p.m. W&L beat both schools by a com-
bined score of 30-8 last season.

“We can’t take them lightly,” Howe
said. “Both are very good teams. They
have been very challenging in the past.”

 lacrosse  
ijgame postponed

,  ;jfI‘lie in_ei_i’s lacrosse team’s

, .g_an_1e, against, Franklin ,&
‘Maféhali  postponed due to ' ’

‘n5W on Stindayft,At press‘t'ime,.
 no niake-up date has ibeeniset.‘ 

 The men were ranked sev-

enth inthe latest STX/USILA

" Division III poll. after beating

Gettysburg last week.

 

 
 
  

H C()i\IMUNITY

‘I’

‘I’

1'

I

._-——..

 

‘l
l

4

V

0

PAGE 5- 0

ion
rial

MAR. 23, 1998

Don’t hide behind

‘anonymous letters

Editorial commentaries are meant to be
questioned, objected to and argued over. They

‘ are simply opinion — the opinion of the writer.

'4.

If an editorial bothers a reader, he
shouldn’t hesitate to tell the paper. The
Ring-tum Phi encourages letters, but if a
reader wants an argument to hold weight, he
must admit authorship.

Anonymous personal attacks against writers
and cartoonists are not taken seriously. The
Phi columnists put their names and reputation
on the line every time they write. The same
standard should and does apply to any reader
wishing to voice complaints.

The staff editorial (what you are reading
now) does not have a name because it repre-
sents the collective opinion of the Phi staff. As

I_ with most daily newspapers, the Phi does not
I print the name of the individual who writes the

editorial, since each week a different staff
member writes it.

The Phi requires that at least one staff
member know the identity of an anonymous
letter writer. The editors then decide whether
or not a valid reason exists for the writer to
remain anonymous. ‘

If an individual takes the time to write or
call the paper, he should at least attach his
name. Students should feel conﬁdent in voic-
ing ideas in a public forum. ’

Do not hide behind pseudonyms or Greek
letters. Be brave enough to face any contro-
versy that might arise. Make people think.
That’s what columnists do.

All opinion is not serious. Our columnists
have funny bones, and so do our cartoonists.
Lighten up, you’ll live longer. ,

Remember, no one is forcing readers to read
anything the Phi prints.

If a reader disagrees, or doesn’t like an

, opinion, he can always stop reading. No skin

off our backs.

/"N

C C
‘note of the week:

When there’s grain and
booty involved, everything
changes.

— Anonymous sophomore the
morning after St. Patrick’s Day

77

flip: ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Kathryn Mayurnik

Andrea Ewing

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor
w& life Editors

Will Hardie

Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Frances Groberg
John Stewart
Polly Doig

Will Hardie
Hollister Hovey
Tom Wadlow

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Jill Jamieson
Brian Rogers
Matthew Craig
Steven Klotz

Business Manager

Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Almost time to
hand me the
chicken suit

Once again, I ﬁnd it necessary to abuse the (lim-
ited) power of this column to further my own self-
ish ends instead of the (supposed) well being _of
this campus. 0

I need ajob. I need ajob right now.

But how could an obviously gifted and talented
writer such as myself(please note the sarcasm) not
have dozens ofjob offers to choose from?

W, M?
jogn a Bar Stool
,._..Efic Swensen 98

Well, it’s simple really. When I chose a major
three years ago, I pickedjournalism, apparently the
only industry to have absolutely nojob growth over
the last decade. Lucky me.

This means that an expanding pool of trained
journalists are competing for the same number of
jobs. Actually, with the number of newspapers that
have either folded or merged recently, the number
ofjobs injournalism has probably declined over the
past decade.

Thanks to the glut of journalists on the market,
the jobs that are available to the recent J -school grad
come complete with some interesting choices. Most
jobs offer a salary and a package of beneﬁts. Injour-
nalisin, you get a choice of one or the other.

Meanwhile, computer programmers who show up
for interviews in cutoffjeans and sandals and who
have a drooling problem get offered $100,000 a year
plus stock options.

So what is a young man like me supposed to do?
My friends, most of whom have cushyjob or gradu-
ate school offers lined up, have offered me plenty
of helpful suggestions. The most recent (and my
favorite) piece of advice was to find a job writing
paragraph-long teasers for movies in porn catalogs.

While I’m certain thejob has its fringe benefits,
I’m pretty sure that is not what my parents intended
for me after spending all this money on my educa-
tion.

One of my professors suggested I seek out work
in war zones in order to make a name for myself.
While not a bad idea in theory, I remember the movie
“Spies Like Us” every time I consider it. You might
remember the scene when Chevy Chase and Dan
Akroyd were dropped in some desert without being
able to speak the local language. A gang of rebels
appears from over the next hill, armed with riﬂes.
Trying to calm the rebels down, they exclaim,
“We’re Americans!” In the next scene, they"re hang-
ing upside down, bound at the hands and feet.

I’m probably overstating the peril I face as I en-
ter the job market. I’m sure I can find ajob some-
where like the Podunk Press writing obituaries from
midnight to 8 a.m.

One image, though, constantly pops into my mind
as I search for ajob. It was my senior year in high
school, and I was interning at United Press Interna-
tional, a newsgathering service, in New York City.
One day I met my dad, who worked a few blocks
over from my office, for lunch. As we were walk-
ing back to our offices, a person wearing a bright,
enormous chicken outﬁt accosted us. He was hand-
ing out coupons for a fast-food restaurant down
the street.

Something about it struck me as especially de-
grading, because I remember telling my dad, “If you
ever catch me wearing a chicken suit, just shoot me
right on the spot.”

I don’t think things will ever come to that point.
Just in case though, dad, start cleaning your riﬂe.

15 Minutesiof Shame

g

GIG-.

’Tlt~E—
4}; sin:

3E!-bl SVKI C

U LTRA __ ‘i Yo MINORITY

Cousenvnnve

93% ALcaHoLlc.S

MKSPRINGER, HERE'S
THE eermus oN TH4T _
wast-u~c-rou on LEE l‘MH'“"“‘4£ss

(Au.-El KL.

NO WAY”
Tnose PEOPLE mes
FKEAKSl

Tue
:47 smrz

Let’s start treating kids like
regular members of society

The V-chip is a tremendously bad idea. Let me put that
in perspective:

Non-alcoholic beer — bad idea

A sitcom starring Pauly Shore and Tom Arnold — very
bad idea

Moving to Delaware — extremely bad idea

The V-chip — tremendously bad idea

J .-

For those who don’t know, the V-chip is a chip that
will be installed in every television in America and will
theoretically solve all of society’s ills by keeping naughty
programs from children’s view. My problem with the V-
chip isn’t with its methods. Hey, I like government cen-
sorship as much as the next guy.

My problem is with the very bad idea behind the V-
chip. It attempts to suppress adult entertainment in order
to protect the innocence of children. Frankly, I don’t see
the point in protecting childhood innocence. It only lasts
for a few years anyway. No one remains blissfully igno-
rant of the problems of the world forever (well, except for
conservatives).

Centuries of this misguided attempt to build a perfect
world by protecting childhood innocence had failed. The
only thing we’ve done is created a generation of bitter,
cynical adults. Besides, our cruel society only makes a
shallow mockery of childhood innocence by blatantly ly-
ing to children. Santa Claus? The Easter Bunny? Let’s
stop ﬁlling our kids’ heads with silly stories and give them
a strong dose of reality. Hey, maybe if we let twelve-year-

olds into R-rated movies, they wouldn’t have as much
time to have sex (it’s true you know).

The solution is simple: Don’t get rid of the sex and
violence on TV, just get rid of childhood. Think my po-
sition is extreme? Well consider this: How many of the
world’s great scientiﬁc, artistic and philosophic accom-
plishments have been made by children? None. In fact,
the only notable thing children have ever done is the
Children’s Crusade —— the worst organized war in his-
tory (and I’m even including any war that included Spain
or Mexico). Thanks a lot, kids. I say it’s time we stop
letting this sizable portion of the population leech off the
rest of us.

I propose we eliminate this troublesome childhood in-
nocence with a little device I’ve invented called the C-
chip. This little gizmo will automatically block out all
inane, childish programming on your television. The gun
ﬁghts and naked breasts and curse words stay in, the danc-
ing purple dinosaurs and snufﬂeupaguses (snufﬂeupagi?)
are blocked out.

Within a few weeks of watching C-chip TV, your kids
will be as disillusioned as  say  Dennis Miller (and
just as foul mouthed). Within a month, they’ll have given
up their foolish dreams of being pony-riding prircesses
and movie stars and will be perusing the want ads for en-
try-level jobs in the service industry.

Let’s accept defeat and let children join the real world
(not the MTV show The Real World, which is ironically
the exact opposite of the real world). It’s time we treated
children like human beings, and human beings do not live
in some sort of magic fairy world (well, except for liber-

als). Down with childishness, I say. If you disagree with

methen you are a dumb, smelly doo-doo head.

Dogs are all we need to improve the campus

Some of my favorite science building occupants
never shave.

They’re the dogs who accompany professors to
campus every day, the four-legged creatures who
brighten the buildings of Washington and Lee with
their playfulness and their sense of fun.

§':‘Red Brick Row

5

"5:gI)avid Balsley ’99

Dogs are fun to have in academic buildings for a
number of reasons.

First, they are less demanding than their owners.
Your professors expect you to know things like
Lagrange multipliers and structural deformations
caused by convergent boundaries and the relation-
ship between the Retained Earnings Statement and

TALKbaC

“I’d have to get academic credit”

— Lance Clack ’00

“I actually do go to them voluntarily.”

the Balance Sheet. Your professors’ dogs expect you
to scratch their heads. Period. So far as they’re con-
cerned, if you can do that, you can go home now be-
cause you have an A for the semester.

If it weren’t for my personal inhibitions (both of them),
I’d be out there running around, too.

Some people worry that dogs kept in academic build-
ings willjump on people or make messes. This doesn’t
seem to be the case. The

Second, dogs can help
you relieve stress. No 
matter how bad your day
has been or how much
work you have to do, a dog
will think you are great.
Take the unconditional
adoration when you can. It

Aﬁer being in class all day, I ’d love
to follow the example set by some of
W&L ’s canine visitors and take oﬂ
running wildly across the Colonnade.

professors who bring dogs
to campus are good about
keeping them in their of-

The dogs themselves seem

will make your bad day
and your work seem a little less stressful.

Last, academic dogs do some of the things I would
love to do. After being in class all day, I’d love to
follow the example set by some of W&L’s canine visi-
tors and take offrunning wildly across the Colonnade.

a dog were to make a mess,
7’ stains come out.
why carpeting is made of carpeting and not silk, after
all. .

The university may be planning to spend $53 mil-
lion to improve W&L, but dogs are the only addition
to campus I need.

. What would it take to get you to a
- Washington and Lee sporting event?

—— David Damiani ’00

“A competent W&L team.”

-— John Zimmer ’00

‘‘If they’d announce it more.”

— Khriss Stone ’00

ﬁces away from students.‘
well-behaved and quiet. If’

That’s

 

PAGE. 6

As Seen on T. V.,

allit of Humor, Opinion anlB,evi.ews
last Word

MARCH gs, 1998

HE: Co LLEQE OF CABLE

BrKl1 T
i eey Omen Staffwnter

Some people believe that the television is a detri-
ment to the mind. It quickly sucks the viewer into the
vortex, strips him of coherent thought and transforms
him into a mere vegetable.

Contrary to this vicious rumor, television actu-
ally provides a quality education. Sure, the profes-
sors here at Washing- 

the-job insight by witnessing the workday at an ad
agency, DND, when they tune into “Melrose Place.”
General education requirements draw many students to
the popular psychology classes entitled, “Suffering
through life: dealing with cancer, alcoholism and teen-
age marriages,” taught by the Salinger family from
“Party of Five.”

This past fall term marked the beginning of
Fox’s graduate program with the induction
ofthe award-winning law school. All courses are taught

by Professor Ally McBeal.

ton and Lee are great
— they have the cre-
dentials, the enthusi-
asm and sometimes
even a sense of humor
— but, are they hon-
estly preparing us for

Will biology or physics teach us
anything we couldn’t have already
learned from “Doogie Howser” or

“Quantum Leap”?

Even the old standard,
“Beverly Hills 90210” has
revamped its syllabus to
create a seminar combining
lessons from the music in-
dustry and journalism. Pro-
, fessors David Silver and

the real world with

unique information? Think about it. What could
biology or physics possibly teach us that we haven’t
already learned from “Doogie Howser” or “Quan-
tum Leap”?

Take for example, Fox University. Under the skilled
guidance of President Aaron Spelling, Fox University
has significantly expanded its course offerings over
the years. Prospective advertising majors receive on-

Brandon Walsh are co-
teachers of the course that brings current issues into
the forefront.

This, however, is a very small slice of Fox University’s
selection; it offers much more quality programming to
appeal to the widespread interests of all students.

If you find yourself to have a wanderlust with the
remote control, venture away from the Spelling empire
and you will discover that education continues across

 

Collins

Friday, March 27
at 8 p.m. in the

Collins can be seen on
comedy Central’s “Stand Up
Stand Up” as well as MTV’s

“Half-Hour Comedy Hour”
and VHI “Stand-Up Spotlite.”

Collins has also been a

featured performer on
“The Late Show with David

See him in action for free this

   

GHQ

Letterman.”

Friday.

This is your last chance to get in on Fridays!
Mad March Comedy Extravaganza. It’s free and
J a great stress buster for upcoming exams.

Colonnade Club

the television dial. Students in search of relationship
advice can find all the tools they need during daytime
television. A wide variety of programs offer new per-
spectives on reality to help you through those
troubled times with a loved one.
These shows also feature spe-
cial seminarsin relevant topics
such as, “How to Fake a Preg-
nancy,” “Coping with an Evil
Twin,” and best of all, “Adjust-
ing to Life with Amnesia.”

Public speaking courses
have become increasingly
popular lately as more and more
professors offer panel discus-
sions. Seminars that discuss
dysfunctional friendships,
cheating spouses and cross-
dressing alien lovers are popu-
lar topics for Jerry Springer,
Jenny Jones and Ricki Lake.
Professor Oprah Winfrey—_
teaches a highly rated monthly
class on literature, with her
book-of-the-month club, while
the more musically-oriented Rosie O’Donnell offers a
Broadway sing-along.

For those of mply find it impossible to
get out of bed in the afternoon, check out the offer-
ings at the networks’ night schools. David Letterman,
Jay Leno and Conan O’Brien all hold intimate dis-
cussions with today’s heroes (you know, movie stars

   

and musicians) along with personal insight and com-
mentary on current events. For a more in-depth study of
public policy issues, try Bill Maher’s “Politically Incor-
rect.” There’s also another show out there, something
called “Nightline.” I’ve heard
that it isn’t half-bad, but the
professor has really bad hair,
which I ﬁnd distracting.

24 hours ofhighly educa-
tional programming, seven
days a week. Have you ever
seriously considered the
endless possibilities of
television’s intellectual offer-
ings? So, the next time you
decide to pick up that book
on Max Weber instead of the
T.V. Guide, perhaps you
should stop to think for a
second, “What will I really be
learning?”

Now, I understand that
these revelations might be
distressing. After all, you’re
making the realization that

1

(

J

?

V

I‘

you could be wasting your parents’ entire savings on '

an education you could have gotten for the bargain
price ofthe monthly cable bill.

Don’t fret; though somewhat harder to obtain, the
sheepskin diploma from W&L looks much classier on
your wall than Sally Struther’s correspondence college
degree. Trust me.

  
 
   

“You

have Carolyn Bloomer @ Will-

bf air-13 in  iams School room 337

}’0111' h€ad: MONDAY WEDNESDAY

YOU haVC feet 3 p,m_ French show; 7:30 p.m. “Global Climate
in your shoes", “L’Amour, la Mort et les Change and the National
- DR S0658 Rhinoceros,” Interest,” James

O . . . .  . O . . . @ duPont Auditorium. MacKenzie, Woodrow

° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° TUESDAY Wilson Visiting Fellow @

TUESDAY
12:30 p.m. Golf: W&L
ODAC Invitational @
Lexington Country Club

WEDNESDAY les Rhinoceros” @ duPont Auditorium
3 p.m. Baseball THURSDAY
vs- Hampden-Sydney @ 8 p.m. One—Act Plays, Bill A» THURSDAY
Smith Field @ Johnson Theatre 3 p.m. Writing Program:
3:30 p'm° Menis lax VS‘ FRIDAY “Writing in Psychology,”

Connecticut College @
Wilson Field

THURSDAY
4 p.m. Women’s lax vs.
Colby @ Liberty Hall Fields

FRIDAY

All Day: Men’s tennis
Invitational (through Sunday
@ Upper Courts)

SATURDAY
1 p.m. Baseball vs. Emory
& Henry, Smith Field
-Women’s lax vs. Mary
Washington @ Liberty
Hall Fields

PARTIES

No known
fraternity parties
this weekend

ARTS&

8 p.m. University Wind
Ensemble Pre—tour Perfor-
mance, Lenfest Center
-“L’Amour, la Mort et

8 p.m. Comedian Wali
Collins at the GHQ
-One—Act Plays, Bill B
SATURDAY

2 p.m. One-Act Plays, Bill
A, Johnson Theatre

8 p.m. University-
Shenandoah Symphony
Orchestra @ Lenfest /

ooooooooU7"o/ooooooo

LECTURES

TUESDAY I
4 p.m. Reading/book-

signing by Professor Bill
Oliver @Northen Auditorium.
7:30 p.m. “Cultural Modes
of Information Perception:
Marketing American Prod-
ucts in China and Japan,”

Northen Auditorium
°“l\/lodern Chinese Painting:
Roots and Shoots,”

Carolyn Bloomer

Professor David Elmes @
Game Room,
University Center

°Math Colloquium: “And
Then There Were Two: A
Look at the Banch-Tarski
Paradox,” Paul Humke @
Robinson Hall 6

FRIDAY

All Day: Law Symposium:
“The Future of International
Human Rights”
@ Lewis Hall.

iiiiBy—Hoﬂister Hovey

Wvo0— PM 90

 
   

all WT ‘(av
W014 LIFE TH9
T‘lt7a'_ Vou ‘(Z-2
é‘Dlt~l' VOWN‘.
A’HP<l\ I HM -
HR’HB’HA

HA‘.

 
 
     
   
   
   
   

 

 
   
   
 

60.wltA1'9
Yo ut2- NAME?
I worse You
ltkvra 9°
GU we AND
FEALD1 WE
O-HALL ’O\9lhZ"7‘.

   
 

   
   
    

  

N o I VON 'T-
ANO WWW"?
You?-NME»

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

A Tc/lo

‘_ JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBHAHV
5 371. . 76:.»

A/ASHlN_GTON 8: LEE UNIVERSII‘,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Q 55 "2. 
* \ r  ..r
‘ :4); i5‘
Phi Seniors’ Mayumik Skank against 0) Men’s lacrosse upsets
4 and Swensen, give racism; Ska festival |_ Roanoke in (311 Menas
good nddance to the In Norfolk CE tennis claims third place at
! paper. Harrrsonburg and O W&L InVitatiOna1_
Washington D.C. n-
PAGE 2 PAGE 3 (D PAGE 4
at
"' 0 0 
Y       j       Lexington. ‘Va.
Washington and Lee University l ‘ Monday
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 19 MARCH 30, 1998

‘Save the trees

is

 

BAMBI ENJOYS the woods that some feel are doomed by the Master Plan.

XSAB stands behind
«band, money choices

BY GINGER PHILLIPS
—-———————-—- STAFF WRITER

«{ As the legend goes, “REM”, once

played at Washington and Lee’s Fancy
Dress. Every year people talk about the
what ifs and the maybes and the “I will
deﬁnitely go ifs.”

: This year, the big names thrown
around the colonnade included, “The
Mighty Mighty Boss Tones”, “Black
Crowes” and the “Beastie Boys.” Real-
ity? The “Violent Femmes.”

‘=’ The SAB sold around 1300 of the

I 800 tickets, said Philippe Barret, SAB
treasurer. Although the concert did not
sell out, Wes Armstrong, SAB president,

,, said the percentage of W&L students

‘ was greater than in years past.
In the past four years, only Coolio
and “Widespread Panic” have played
to sold out crowds at the Student Pavil-

"l ion. Amistrong attributes this sell out

to the purchase of tickets by local resi-
dents and high school students.
Despite the recent wave of criticism

Q the SAB has received, Chris Noland,

vice-president of entertainment, feels
the interests of the student body are at
the heart of its decisions and existence.

The SAB encourages any unsatis-

'4 ﬁed student to become personally in-

volved with the SAB in the following
years. The current board consists of 62
members who vote on the band choice.
This year their choices included Bruce

Homsby and the “Gibb Droll Band.”

According to Noland, more than 35
bands were considered based on price
and availability. Some bands like “Wide-
spread Panic” were out of the country
during the week of FD. Barret said the
SAB looks to spend between $30,000
and $50,000 on an FD band.

At a total cost of $30,000, the “Vio-
lent Femmes” were cheaper than Coolio
or “Widespread Panic.” Top dollar
bands like the “Beastie Boys” are too
expensive.

The SAB is funded by the Execu-
tive Committee through student ac-
tivity fees. Of the $135 fee each stu-
dent pays, about 25 percent of that or
$34 goes to SAB. Armstrong says the
SAB spends every cent it is allocated
each year. Generally students pay be-
tween $10-12 for tickets to the “big”
concerts of the year: Homecoming,
Christmas Weekend and FD. The SAB
also funded hypnotist Tom Deluca in
February and the band “Right On”
during freshman orientation.

“We ﬁgure if the EC gives it to us
we should spend it,” Armstrong said.

The SAB is in good financial
shape. It is trying to put together
some Spring Term concerts and it will
put money into the Buffalo Creek
Music Festival this year as it has in
years past.

Courtney Miller contributed to this article

Students support
car, not bikeculture

BY WILL HARDIE
—-——--—?-News EDITOR
en President John Elrod
first arrived at Washington
and Lee, he asked Facilities
Planning Coordinator Frank Parsons
why there were so few bicycle racks
on campus.

“I said to him, ‘it’s hard to park a
BMW in a bicycle rack,’” said Parsons.

A student on a bicycle is still a rare
sight at W&L, a fact that vexes Uni-
versity planners working on the long-
temr development master plan.

“If more students would ride their
bikes instead of driving their sport-
utility vehicles, it would solve a lot
of our traffic problems,” said Par-
sons, who is known in University
planning circles as “The Parking Czar.”

The master plan mentions cy-
cling, but proposes no changes to
encourage it.

“Although the campus is gener-
ally compact and conducive to bi-
cycle transportation, very little use
appears to be made of bikes on cam-
pus,” the document reads. “There

_ is a bike rack at Graham Lees Donni-

tory which gets good use, but stu-
dents are seldom seen on bikes!”
Parsons said that many students
use their cars for unnecessarily
short journeys, such as from
Davidson Park fraternities to the
“Corral” parking lot on Jefferson
Street. Such journeys could easily
be made by bicycle, saving parking
spaces and easing road congestion.

“It ought to be an idea that would
occur to students who are as smart as
they are suppose to be here,” Parsons
said. “The ultimate human quest to-
day is not a cure for cancer or world
peace or getting to Mars, it is for the
parking place of ultimate proximity.”

Senior Brian Fobi shipped his bi-
cycle to W&L from Oregon three
years ago, but still has not ridden it
in Lexington. Although W&L’s ge-
ography might be conducive to cy-
cling, he said that the attitudes of
its students are not.

“It’s a car culture,” he said.
“They think riding bikes is a high-
school thing.”

Parsons agrees that social mores
make all the difference, and added

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
e—MANAcINo EDITOR

Junior Rhett Stook, an avid
outdoorsman and a member of the Out-
ing Club, stood on top of Jump Moun-
tain Saturday, looking out over the ter-
rain of the Lexington area.

One of the main reasons that Stook
came to Washington and Lee was to
take advantage of the outdoors. As he
soaked up the view, Stook wondered if
the several million dollars worth of ad-
ditions to W&L, which will be added in
the next several years, will be visable some-
day from the peak of the mountain.

He, and other members of the
Outing Club, feel that the master
plan, especially plans to build a new
baseball. field between the pavilion
and the law school parking lot, will
encroach on the community’s enjoy-

ment of the landscape.

“I feel that the woods in that area are
a valuable resource to W&L and the
Lexington community,” said Stook.

Stock is also concerned that the con-
struction will affect the trails in that area.

“I spend a lot of time back there moun-
tain biking,” Stook said.

However, President Elrod be-
lieves that Outing Club’s concerns
are “ill founded” and the new base-
ball field and other projects will not
affect the trails.

“The stand of trees in that area where
the trails are will not be removed,” Elrod
said. “The wooded sight line will remain.”

However, Elrod does admit that the
woods where the baseball field will be
built will have to be cleared.

“But, to my knowledge, the baseball
ﬁeld will not affect the trails in any way,”
Elrod said.

Coordinator of Facilities Planning,
Frank Parsons, said “ he didn’t know” if
the trails would be affected.

“But I do know that this school needs
a new baseball field, .and that is very
important to the atheltic program,” said
Parsons. “And there are trails that cross
that area where the baseball field will be
built I think if the Outing Club is con-
cerned about the removal of the trails,
they should meet with us and suggest
where we can build new ones.”

Parsons said it is unfortunate that
trees need to be cut down, but says that
this is a necessary step toward improv-
ing the university.

“Sometimes its impractical to put a
lot of money into saving trees when the
trees end up having to be taken down
anyway,” said Parsons said.

Many of the trees, like the ones on
the sorority house site, are old and

, says outing club

rotting and ready to come down any-
way, Parsons said.

“Those pine trees by the
pavillion are only there because
they were planted by the university
in the first place  And those trails
haven’t been there since the Indi-
ans either.”

Nonetheless, Stook feels that the
master plan is an omen of doom for
W&L’s landscape.

“I foresee this campus expanding
into the woods even more as the
years go on,” he said. “Before you
know it, nothing will be left.”

Stephanie Miller, a member of the
Outing Club, agrees.

“It is just a valuable resource,”
Miller said. “Chances are, the deple-
tion of that resource will continue,
and it seems like such a shame to
lose that.”

W E HAVE  ll\l A  Senior Bill Warnock vivaciously leaps for his “sock ball, " as senior Reed Deupree looks

on. Many students took advantage of the 85 degree weather this weekend Hollister Hovey/Photo Editor

that students’ tastes can be fickle.

“If more people [started cycling],
all of a sudden it would become the in
thing to do,” he said.

Because bicycle racks are already
available and parking spaces are
scarce, there is little more that the
University can do to encourage cy-
cling. Parsons said that the admin-
istration would be reluctant to try
to coerce students away from their
cars, because such a move would
be unpopular and would draw accu-
sations of authoritarianism, cur-
rently a sensitive issue.

Though cycling is healthier than
driving, Parsons said that some may
be put off by the risk of an accident.

“Riding a bike in Lexington can be
adventurous in terms of personal
safety,” he said.

Lexington’s roads are narrow and
often lined with parked cars, and its
drivers are not always attentive to cy-
clists, he said.

“Even if half of students started
cycling and the other half stick with
cars, ifthey kept going at the speed
they do now, there would still be a
problem.

“Nothing would be more pleas-
ant than if more students would
ride bicycles, but I don’t know the
magic words that would make them
do it.”

Delt house, a very, very
fine house, residents say

BY CHRSTINA JULLIAN
—j—————- STAFF WRITER

What happens when you put 18
girls from four different sororities
in one house? Not what most
would expect.

In its first year as a residence
facility, the former Delta Tau Delta
House has proven to be a success.
The house provides a unique
housing opportunity for sorority
members while serving as an al-
ternative to Gaines Hall or Woods
Creek.

“The Delt House is used pri-
marily as a residence facility, but
it also holds sorority functions,”
said Sarah McCrone, Panhellenic
president. Currently 18 women
from four sororities occupy the
house.

Although Kappa Kappa
Gamma’s national charter prohib-
ited them from living there this
year, but several Kappas will live
in the Delt House next year.

The women in the house now
have enjoyed the luxuries it af-

fords. Elizabeth Harvey, sopho-
more KD, said, “The Delt House
is really awesome, and I think it’s
even better than the frats. Every-
thing is new and the house pro-
vides many amenities. It’sjust like
being at home.”

The house has a living room,
breakfast room, kitchen, and TV
room for its residents. Harvey be-
lieves that it far surpasses Gaines.

Some people think that those in
the Delt House are isolated, but
Harvey disagreed.

“We are actually less isolated
than you might think. We get to
live with about 20 others whereas
those in Gaines live in much
smaller groups.”

Harvey also noted that as a
special bonus they are able to
mingle when sororities have func-
tions downstairs.

Because the Delt House has
been so successful, many fresh-
men were eager to live in it next
year. Any interested sorority mem-
ber turned in her name to her so-

rority representative on the
Panhellenic Council, and lots were
drawn to see who the lucky
women would be.

Georgianna Hickam, a freshmen
Chi Omega, was pleased with the
results.

_ “It looks like we’re going to
have a great group of girls in the
house next year. I’m looking for-
ward to becoming friends with
women from other sororities.”

Sarah Riggs, a freshmen Kappa,
is also excited about meeting other
women.

“The Delt House might serve in
breaking barriers between the sorori-
ties. We’ll have a great opportunity
to interact with people we may oth-
erwise never know.” Riggs decided
to live in the Delt House because of
its accommodations.

“Since our class won’t have a
chance to live in sorority houses,
the Delt House will provide the
type ofcamaraderie found in a so-
rority house,” Riggs said. “It will
be a very beneficial experience.”

 

 

PAGE 2

Don’t you ever wish
you could have been
Eric Swensen?

I wish I was Eric Swensen. I wish I was Kevin
McManemin. Heck, sometimes I wish I was Jackie
Terrebone.

I’ve been an editor on the Phi since spring term of
last year, and in that time, I’ve had to bite my glib lip
and hold my opinionated tongue every time the Phi
received a letter about how much I suck or how much
the paper sucks in general. I hold great envy for those

""'<E"“' “““““““““““““““““““ “

,f:°"l?i”or,r1 the P121’ Throne

  

student journalists, like Swensen, McManemin and
Terrebone who are able to vent their opinions to the
entire campus each week. This has not been a luxury
that I have been allowed to enjoy.

There are certainly other luxuries that I haven’t
enjoyed as managing editor of the Phi. Sleep, prob-
ably being the number one luxury (yes, sleep is a
luxury, not a need) and possibly my sanity. Because
even when you are reading the paper at dinner, and
you point and mock at the misspelled word on the front
page, I was up until 5 a.m. in the morning, trying my
best to make sure that didn’t happen. For all of those
mistakes, I apologize. The last thing I wanted was to
cause anyone any indigestion.

This is my last week as managing editor . (Don’t
all breath a sigh of relief now.) My last week of writ-
ing articles that are likely to piss people off. My last
week of eating three times my weight every Sunday to
stay awake. My last week of missing the X-files Sun-
day night.

And like Swensen, I’d like to thank a few people.
(Eeee, gads, this sounds like the Academy Awards.)

To the graduating Phi staff: I have seen you at your
best, and at your worst, but I truly believe that these
have been some of our ﬁnest hours.

To the Virginia Military Institute cadets: thank you
for all of the interesting material you have provided
us this year. If you weren’t doin’ the nasty under bed-
room furniture, you were beating the crap out of your
mess hall. That stuff was fun to report on. And spe-
cial kudos to my “Deep Throat.”

And, at last, to our readers: we have always genu-
inely strived to serve, maybe not please, all of you. I
speak for all of the senior editors when I say that the
Phi has always believed that student journalism serves
a higher purpose than to just amuse the freshmen in
the dining hall or the fraternity guys at dinner. If our
coverage of issues and on this campus have even par-
tially inﬂuenced the administration to take steps to-
ward making this a safer and more astute institution
or have sparked debate, then we have done our job.
My only hope is that this campus will continue to par-
ticipate actively in student journalism, as writers or
editors, or as students giving both papers feedback.
Because this is our school. And when we have two
student newspapers in this small community, nothing
should be allowed to be swept under the rug, going
uncovered.

If you have any juicy news tips spring term, I might
consider doing some work for the Phi. You can ﬁnd
me at the Palms, sharing a bar stool with Swensen.

Ellie, ﬂing-tum lﬁlii

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayumik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Will Hardie
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Jill Jamieson
Brian Rogers
Matthew Craig
Steven Klotz

Business Manager

Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring—tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E—mail: phi@w1u.edu

Lastcaﬂ
From the
Bar Stool

It’s just about quitting time for this columnist.
After two semesters of providing you with commen-
tary, opinion and humor, it’s time to retire to greener
pastures (Goshen) for Spring Term, leaving the task

 a Bar Stool

  

of engaging, outraging and occasionally offending
you to new columnists (or possibly the same ones
who’ve been doing it all year).

Writing this column (almost) every week has
been quite an adventure. It’s taken me to new and
exciting places, like President Elrod’s office. Oth-
ers have considered suing me for libel. I’ve touched
on what I think is a fairly wide spectrum of issues,
like drinking (hey, look at the title of my column),
hazing, parking, the IFC, Swiss drug policy, the
theater productions my friends are starring in and
my inability to ﬁnd a paying job in the journalism
industry. The column has also produced a lot of
positive feedback, other than the summons from
President Elrod and an angry phone call from Fiji
after my hazing column.Well, no one’s perfect.

I’m sure some of you have read this column on a
weekly basis and determined I’m abitter senior who
hates this school. Granted, there were stretches this
year where week after week I climbed up on my
soapbox and discussed things that I don’t like about
Washington and Lee.

It’s not that I hate this school. Actually, it’s quite
the contrary. I’ve loved my four years here, and I’ll
take away countless memories and numerous friends
from W&L. That doesn’t mean this school is per-
fect. There isn’t a school in America that couldn’t
use improvement in one area or another, and W&L
is no exception. So over the past seven months I’ve
tried in my columns to outline the areas where W&L
could and should be better, and I won’t apologize
for doing that. You may not have agreed with ev-
erything I wrote, but if I sparked even a little
thought or debate, then I’ve done my job.

Before I wrap this up, let me take the opportu-
nity to thank the people who have helped make this
column possible every week.

First, I need to salute my three bossesf Courtney,
Jason and Frances. Back in September, it was
Courtney, Jason and Frances. Back in September,
it was Courtney who gave me a chance to try col-
umn writing, and she and Jason have backed me up
no matter what I wrote or who I pissed off.

Frances is the person who puts together this page
on a weekly basis. Despite not actually meeting her
face to face until last month, she has always been
more than understanding when my column hasn’t
been right on time. Her tireless efforts to make the
editorial page look good have made my column look
a lot better than it should. I owe them all dinner for
putting up with me this year.

Also, I want to thank my legal adviser, Prof. John
Jennings, who assured me that writing the truth
could not get me sued for libel. Fortunately, it was
too late for him to change my grade in Journalism
Law.

Finally, let me thank everyone who read my col-
umn every week, or even glanced at it on the way
to the cartoons. I hope you enjoyed it.

It’s time for me to hop off this ﬁgurative bar stool
and pull up a literal one down at The Palms. Hope-
fully, you’ll hear from me again some day. Hope-
fully, it won’t be from inside a chicken costume.

C6

   
 

1%

(K ,..:uote of the week:
£1;

Damn, I can’t

believe we’re
DONE!

C‘

-<

— One of the Phi Executive Editors
at around midnight Sunday night

 

 

“The Trident was a little more
boring than the Phi.”
—— Will Baker ’00

 

it 7 _
-l-‘I/YT if‘!-‘ll’ (
t:H_f\"Il’r 

15 Minutes of Shame

   

$Lt<.K WI‘-L-Y

  

 

V"’°ER S756 E J

/‘N /Iv-Tasu: mm g

$TtC—'<Y 313- m

 

‘Wt’! av:-i

 

1

    

“The Talkback made it deﬁnately worth
reading. It kept me going through the paper.”

" ...-~...J
4»: 1 Know THEY DoN'T SEEM KBLATED, 3”?’
THE same NUMBER 0? reams wee’? WW” °” 3°“!

     

    

  

... it
gsg ._ _..
g;¢’_’,9 Tunrruwtr
grim )'ouD0.‘ Y
 - -
Ala.
>
r Y
Ti-+E)‘lHl£:
V

Le:ters to the

Zimmer makes ammends

Dear Editor:

In the March 23, 1998, edition of the Ring—tum Phi, I
was quoted in the “Talk Back” section of your paper in
response to the question, “What would it take to get you
to a W&L athletic event?” I responded “A competent
W&L team.” This response, accurately quoted, was poorly
worded on my part. It conveyed a meaning that I did not
intend. Due to the offense that has been taken by mem-
bers of ’The the W&L community with regard to my quote,
I ask that you please print the following clariﬁcation in
your next issue.

I have said a lot of stupid things in my life. After 53
phone calls, 12 angry letters, 25 menacing e-mails, 2 death
threats, and 3 burning eﬂigies of myself, I must rank my
response to the Phi’s “Talk Back” question in last week’s
issue among the most idiotic of them. In that publication,
I said that it would take “a competent W&L team” to get
me to go to a W&L athletic event. While I meant what I
said (and I was accurately quoted), what I said was not
what I meant. Okay, that didn’t make any sense. What
I’m trying to say is that what I actually meant by my quote
was that I go to W&L athletic events in order to see com-
petent W&L teams play.

I was not (intentionally) implying that we have no such
teams‘. Granted, my response was poorly worded to say
the least, and if I weren’t me, and I read what I had said,
not only would I be unsure of my identity in this twisted
hypothetical situation, but I would also think, like many
of the Phi’s readers" did, that I (the “I” who was quoted)
was an ignorant jerk who knew nothing about the hard-
working, talented W&L teams I was bashing. In fact, I
would be the ﬁrst to burn myself in eﬁlgy while damning
me to hell. But alas, the whole thing was a mistake. I
chose my words carelessly and ended up offending people.
For all of you I unintentionally slighted, please accept my
sincere apologies. I am aware of the successes of W&L
athletics and furthermore am proud of them. So please
accept my sincere apologies. I am aware of the successes
of W&L athletics and furthermore am proud of them. SO
please forgive me and whoever left that headless chicken
on my doorstep, please remove it.

Sincerely,
John Zimmer ’00

A modest proposal for smokers

Dear Editor,

Having witnessed the suffering of out smokers during
the recent cold snaps and monsoons, I am moved to offer
this proposal on their behalf:

That we construct some well-ventilated gazebos, per-
haps modeled after our seemingly-trademark gatehouses,
at suitable locations around campus (though certainly not
anywhere which could be seen from our historic front
lawn). Within each would be a 55-gallon oil drum and a
plentiful stack of butt ends of 2x45, which, as anyone who’s
spent time around a construction site in cold weather
knows, provide the world’s warmest heat. Hardhats would

‘i

—- Maciej Golubiewski ’99

 

“I haven’t spent a lot of time
thinking about the Phi.”
— Elizabeth Huston ’99

V

R1iog—a1m Phi’

be optional.

In warmer weather, he drums could be ﬁlled with sand,
loosely packed, and serve as ashtrays. Smokers could alsox
use the sand to bury their heads in, should they be as-
sailed, no matter how civilly, with antismoking rhetoric.

Patrick Hinely ’7 3

Sexual misconduct is the worst
kind of honor violation

There is a disturbing trend at this university to View dis-y
honorable conduct only in terms of lying, cheating and steal-
ing. Lee’s concept of honor was meant to apply not only to
academic situations, but to social ones as well. The Student
Handbook acknowledges this — in most cases. For example,
the Student Judicial Council rules, which deal with most)‘
non-academic violations, list physical assault and “(activi-
ties) which endanger a person” as violations which require
“immediate suspension” (p. 28).

The Handbook treats situations involving sexual mis-
conduct differently Sexual misconduct can include, but is‘
not limited to, forced sexual contact, physical assault with
sexual intent, and forced sexual intercourse. Of these, only
a conviction of rape requires the penalty of dismissal from
the university. A conviction of another form of sexual mis-x
conduct warrants lesser penalties.

All fomis of sexual misconduct should be punished by
dismissal from the University. Matters involving sexual
misconduct are matters of honor. We consider stealing to
be an honor violation ~—- regardless of whether the amount)»
stolen is $10 or $10,000 — and sanction it with dismissal.
Why? Because “honor is not measured by degree.” The pun-
ishment does not reﬂect the magnitude of the crime, but
rather the student’s disregard for standards of honorabl
conduct. Likewise, a person convicted of any form of sexual‘
misconduct should not be allowed to remain at this Univer-
sity simply because he did not rape.

Currently, a student found guilty of sexual misconduct
(other than rape) can be penalized with counseling, con‘.
duct probation, and/or social probation. Ifit happened again,
chances are it would never be reported; less than 1 in 100
acquaintance rapes are. Yet, oddly enough, that same stu-
dent could steal from you and the University would expel
him as a matter of honor. V

The message this sends is disturbing — it is less of a
breach of honor to sexually assault a girl that it is to steal a
few dollars from a classmate. How can we make this kind
of claim? Sexual misconduct is the worst kind of honor vio-
lation — it is lying, cheating and stealing all at once — and
is of greater gravity than a violation of academic trust. Lee
would be appalled. His standard of gentlemanly conduct
did not end at the classroom door. It applied then, and should
still apply today, to all areas of student life. Sexual assault
and rape are violations of honor and trust which strike at
the heart of the ideals on which this University was founded.
How can students who commit such crimes be deemed hon-
orable? “

Kristen Hitchens ’00 I

What was your opiriieri of the P121’ this year?_.,

 

“I don’t think you want my quote.”

-— Cassie Shaner ’00
K

1 spring issue of Shenandoah,
' The Washington and Lee Uni-
-. versity Review is now avail-

 work by Lousie Herreshoff,
. Lucia Perillo, W.S. Merwin and
» Kathryn Stripling Byer.

V Rector and Shaner.

  New Shenandoah now

‘ versity Bookstore.

if Shenandoah has published
- award-winning ﬁction, poetry,

  

MARCH 30, 1998

Oliver shares stories
from new collection

BY ERICA Paosslzlz

STAFF \VRlTE-R

Bill Oliver insists that the title of his new book, Women
and Children First, is not an attempt to cash in on
the recent popularity of the Titanic.

“Most of the stories [in the book] are about women
and children, from their points of view,” he said during a
reading and signing of the new volume.

The book, which came out at the end of January, is a
collection of 12 stories which won the Midlist Press First
Series Award for Short Fiction.

Oliver, a tall ﬁgure wearing a purple sweaterand a broad
smile for the occasion, appeared in Northen Auditorium
Tuesday aﬁemoon and read “Companion,” the last story
in the book, to a crowd of about 30 local teachers, stu-
dents and fans.

“The reading was pleasant,” he said afterwards. “l
was nervous beforehand, though.”

Oliver was among friends, however. He is director
of the Virginia Military Institute Writing Center, and
teaches at VMI and W&L.

His stories have been published in literary maga-
zines and earned him prizes for writing.

He has published several story collections already, and
copies of Oliver’s last few volumes were clutched in the
hands of the mesmerized listeners during his reading.

Oliver admitted that he, too, sometimes has difﬁculty
with the creative process. He said that “Companion,” a
low-key love story, was difﬁcult for him to write.

He said he had been trying to make the story into some-
thing it wasn’t, but once he accepted the story for what it
was, he was able to create it to his satisfaction.

Overall, he is content with his teaching and writing.

This latest book is already a hit; members of the audi-
ence who had read the stories discussed their favorites
and praised his work. After Oliver ﬁnished his reading, he
was met by a line of people seeking autographs and words
with the author. He smiled, chatted, and signed copy after
copy of his book.

“Women and Children First is also an ironic title,” he
said, pointing out one of the more appealing aspects of
the book. “Most of the characters don’t get any help
from men. They’re strong on their own.”

ESPN covers W&L
Riding Team event

B-HFILB

f the six members of the W&L riding team who quali-

ﬁed to compete in last weekend’s Regional Finals in
Raleigh, NC, ﬁve members placed high enough to qualify
for the Zone Finals which will be hosted by W&L and
covered on ESPN on April 20.

The team also ranked 6th over all for the season — up
two places from last year.

This year’s regional qualiﬁers were Sarah Rector, Chris-
tine Starer, Lydia Nichols, Lindsay Gatling, Cassie Shaner
and Wendy Kimble. Nichols, who won her division, was
named Regional Champion.
Nichols, Rector, Gatling,
Shaner and Kimble are
zone qualiﬁers.

The W&L Riding
Team, started only
three years ago, is led
by tri-captains Starer,

   

available in bookstore

HaFl1.l':s

ust in time for the lazy
days of Spring Term, the

§l~l'1€1?~I:-\N.l‘)t')Ait

able for purchase at the Uni-

The spring issue features

 

Edited by R.T. Smith, _ A
Spring issue.

essays and interviews since 1950. Work published in the

- magazine is regularly included in The Best/fmerican Short

A _ Stories, The Best American Poetry and The Best American

Essays annual anthologies.
Copies of the magazine are available for $5.00 at the
University Bookstore. Take a copy to Goshen with you.

Lenfest presents new

plays by new playwrights
H1IFrlrs

he playwriting class will present a reading of new plays
by new playwrights 7 p.m. April 2 in the Johnson The-
atre. Tickets are not required.

Sheri Hamilton, Alex Christensen, Michael Duderstadt,
Wes Armstrong, Anthony Dvarskas, Alyssa Sellers, James
Sammons and Hampton Richards will read from their work.

The playwriting class is taught by Professor and Pro-
fessional Playwright Tom Ziegler during winter term. lt is
an introductory workshop in scene writing. The composi-
tion and staged reading of a short, one-act play culminates
the course.

GD Tonight and tomorrow are the ﬁnal performances of
the annual Festival of One Acts at 8 p.m. in the Johnson
Theatre. No tickets are required and admission is free.

Ska Against Racism tour

brings genre back to its roots

BYHOLLISTERHOVEY
——:~— PHOroE3nloR

ome claim that ska made

multi-racial bands legiti

mate to the public. This

month, the genre is

coming together to ﬁght

for one of its original

messages — abolishing racism. The

Ska Against Racism tour is crossing the

country raising money for local chari-
ties in each city to abolish prejudice.

“Less than Jake,” “The Toasters,”

“Mustard Plug,” “The Blue Meanies,”

“Five Iron Frenzy,” “Kemuri,” Mike

“Bruce Lee” Park and “MU330” are

iheadlining the one-and-a-half month

ltour that hits The Boathouse in Nor-

folk, VA on April 17, Godwin Hall in A

Harrisonburg,VA on April 18 and the
9:30 Club in D.C. on April 21.

Ska music has a 40-year history
intertwined with politics and politi-
cal activism. “Ska music originated
in Jamaica as they were gaining their
independence from Britain in 1962,”
Rob “Bucket” Hingley, head of
Moon Ska Records and lead singer
of “The Toasters” said in a recent
interivew. A few years later, eco-

’ noniic depressionhit Jamiaca, /and
the music became slower and more '

depressing, evolutionizing into rock
steady and reggae.

Even though original ska is upbeat
and happy, it always was a form of pro-
test music. “A lot of the original mes-

sages of ska music are being lost,”
Hingley said. “First, right from the get-
go it's rebel music coming from the
trench tainted ghetto  In the ’70s, for
example, it was particularly politically
charged because it was like a reaction
against Margaret Thatcher and right
wing politics in England. It was a
shout out against unemployment. A
shout out against racism. A shout out
against sexism.”

Original Jamaican ska bands like the
“Specials” were characterized by a “two-
tone” theme representing the black and
white races. There were both black and
white members in many of the original
bands, at a time when
this was quite rare. A
checker board is still

A l t h o u g h
original ska

dynamite issue at that point.”

In the 1950s, before ska’s transfor-
mation into reggae, former Island
Records president and founder Chris
Blackwell brough ska legend Laurel
Aitken to England. The genre became
fairly popular, but didn't make its way
across the Atlantic for over a decade.
In the late ’70s Hing1ey’s work at a comic
company sent him to the United States.
He wanted to feed his love for ska mu-
sic, so he formed a band in ’81 that he
called “Not Bob Marley.” This small
band that played music previously un-
heard by Americans renamed itself “The
Toasters.” Within two years, it had an
album under the
Moon Ska label which
Hingley started.

one of the most recog- I Since then, “The
nizable symbolsofska 1 S 1.1 p b e a t Toasters”has re-
music, but much of the a n d h a P P Y I married very success-
meanlng was lost . ful and Moon Ska ls
when ska came to 1 t a 1 W a Y S one ofthe most influ-
America ﬁom England. wa s a f o rm ential ska labels in the
“For me itwasapretty O f P ro t e S t industry with new-
politicallychargedmu- . ska bands like
mu S 1 C .

sic in the ’70s, but it
has’t translated too
well to music in the ’90s because people

'dori‘t’havé too much to worry about if

you think about it,” Hingley said. “I
think racism is a big issue over here that
no one wants to talk about. 1 think
that’s one of the reasons they didn’t
promote “two-tone” over here be-
cause politically it was too much of a

“Dance Hall Crash-
ers,” “Let's Go Bowl-
ing,” “The Slackers,” “The Bluebeats”

I and “Hepcat.”

While most of these bands stay
close to actual ska standards, the
bands that have infused punk with ska
have become the most popular. Punk-
ska bands like “The Mighty Mighty
Bosstones,” “Less than Jake” and

“Goldfinger” started out as purely
punk bands, but added horn sections
as the ska trend spread.

The popular band “No Doubt” can
be considered a pop-punk—ska band,
but the ska inﬂuence is actually smaller
than the media has made it out to be.
“A lot of people just see some punk
band playing an upbeat guitar on MTV
and think that’s [ska],” Hingley said.

He hopes that the transient fame
surrounding these pop-ska bands
will help bring authentic ska music
to the forefront.

“Hopefully we’ll just be in a little
bit ofa better position,” Hingley said,
“because well make some inroads in
terms of publicity and get some
grounding for real ska music off the
backs of the wannabies.”

Hingley believes that the original
genre will withstand the test oftime as
long as passion remains. “There are
people who really believe in the music
for what it is because it’s a way oflife
for them. Then there’s people who are
only in it for the money. Those are the
types who will desert the sinking ship
when it’s not fashionable, but 1 don’t
really care about them,” he said. “I’1l

still be playing this musiciwhen ’tliey’re' '
i doing something else.”

* * * The interview with Hingley
took place this fall over the phone at
WL UR for the Skatology radio show
hosted by Lara Ellison, Jessica Helm
and H ollister H ovey.

Skeletones.

 Plug.

HELP WANTED

Men/Women earn $375
weekly processing/assembling
Medical I.D. Cards at home.
Immediate openings, your local
area. Experience unnecessary,
will train. Call Medicard 1-
541-386-5290 Ext. 118M

mo

 

pit stop

take a brake
from the race

cappuccino or fountain drink.

Going home orjust taking a trip up/down l-
81, stop in at Mint Springs Pit Stop (Exit 217-
EXXON). Purchase 5 gallons or more of gas,
show college ID and receive free 20oz coffee,

    

  

 

gm. ..

Rue $3153 55‘
,‘,w,,,,,,e tgvgggxw maxim ‘Ema

  

vi
a....»..~o-

. ~ ‘« mims¥K"§
(lrrtt1i W"

FOR the EDUCATION and RESEARCH COMMUNITY-

 
 

  

  
 
  

g‘o\k*t§*‘~
\ glx;r‘1\*§“§;‘;:;E:“§‘iitl§? 
rsiexs.-‘tor . ., “‘ -~s 
 1‘\<3”‘7i“» 9, :rte.t3‘ME M»-
our-it .»r1;j,".\.“~‘l\»*’-‘*1’   ,,,-- 
  nest rat. . ,"_,~,..mw-r""”'"MWA‘MM 

Attention College Seniors:

What do I do up-Kt?

Be a live-in nanny for UVA professors
family for one year, starting August 1.
Regular weekday schedule, generous
salary, paid vacations and holidays,
health insurance, free room and board,
own spacious living quarters (with
bathroom, and separate entrance), all
utilities, swimming pool membership,
privacy, respect. Non—smokers, good
drivers, college graduates or students
only. Call 804-924-7815 or e-mail
aw2b@virginia.edu.

11:1

ecommentl Tl/\r\-CRl’.l’ SR/\s. SR/\s are tax-
(lL’l.Cl.rCd Z\nnUitlE'5 lllill Ciln l1Clp ‘VOU l)Ull(l r:\(l(lili0n{ll

asst-t.s—Inoll(’_\' lltat run l11£ll(L‘ tllo (lillol‘ol1t‘t‘ l)ct\\'oen

Oi‘ l‘Z1St l'Cll€l" l’vl‘(7lT1 ilk‘ llilggillg ilCl1(‘ Oi. IIIXCS. \\'C
T

, living and living rill’/l in rctircrncnt.

Contributions to SR/\s iIl‘L‘(‘Ull\‘CI1l(‘I1ll‘\'(iC(llI(‘lC(l
from _\'our szrlal‘_\' on il pl‘vt.'lx lrusis. lilo r‘L~sLllt'.’ .\lol’v:
money ll1\'CSl(.‘(l. l“L-\\'t‘l‘ taxes now. :\ntl Slllkl‘ im L‘S[l1‘lL‘l1I
earnings are tax (lCl(‘lT\‘Ll until _\'ou l‘ot'oi\'c tllem as
income, the lnonL'_\' you <lnn't st-nil to \\':r.<l1illr__>‘tol1 turn

\\’0I‘l\' C\'L‘ll ll£ll‘(lL‘l‘ l.()l' _\'()ll.

\Vll;lt else (l(l Sl{.‘\s <)llcl"? /\ llull range (ll. ll1\'L‘SllTl(‘lll

Cl1()lCL‘Sl ll llCl})l.Ul l0(|ll lL‘£|lUl'(‘. ilnkl ll1L‘ llll(lIlCl£ll CXPCITISC

of"l‘lr\r\—CRl‘:l“, tllc \\'ol‘ltl's largest retirement s_\'slcln.:‘

Now l\lor‘e \\'a_vs to Nleet Your Goals

'l‘orl;l_\' ll.-\.'\-CRl‘ll“ can lrclpyou meet even more

ol'_\'oul‘ linllnt iul (‘Il)lL.‘L‘ll\'L‘S, \\'itl'r lRz\s. mutual lumls,

zlnll rnurc. \\’tVll lrclp _\'ou select the solutions that suit

_\'0ul‘ lioctls. Visit _\'0ul‘ l)L-nclits oil-lt‘c or call us ill

l   I0 l(‘i\l‘ll ll10I'€.

Do it lmluy —il \Ulll(ll1‘l hurt.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa—Crel'.or'g

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.

I Irll .l‘\t l~ mulm tH.lI\.l:\‘Ilu'III

ll.t~t‘4
I l \ \-Cl{|-L|- lmlnr-lu.r| .uul lII\lIllIlItvIl.ll S\'I\Il\‘\tll\lIll>lllt'~ L’l(|.l

1... .  l.II‘_,'\'\.|llIlk'\t\\'H~r'~,l.lll 1 Nllll.\‘4‘_‘.‘,'."f.'u .\i

..~...ll.....-....l .,.l.-...\..... .l..- l'I\\ llml l-.......- \tHIllI\l  ...... 
 rm. l... .l.. ,.....,..-.l...... Rlhlll rim. ...,.-l..ll\ l..-l....- ltlll .....»..  \L'|lIl  -_ws

 

 

PAGE 4

Men’s lax defeats
Roanoke College

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—-————————— STAFF Wiznra

Ed Dougherty and the rest of the
Washington & Lee Men’s Lacrosse
Team were a little dazed at the begin-
ning of sudden-death overtime during
Saturday aftemoon’s showdown with
ODAC-rival Roanoke College.
Roanoke had just tied the game with
10 seconds left in regulation and had
also drawn a penalty, giving the Ma-
roons an extra man advantage and a
great deal of momentum heading into
the extra period.

But just when things looked dark-
est for the Generals, an All-American
came to the rescue. Senior Ed
Dougherty scored a short-handed
goal ten seconds into OT to give the
Generals a thrilling 6-5 overtime vic-
tory in one of the most dramatic la-
crosse games in Generals history.

Since the Generals had possession
and were a man down at the end of
regulation, there was no face-off at the
beginning of OT and instead the extra
session began with the ball in the stick
of Dougherty. The all-American blew
by the entire Roanoke defense, ripped
the game-winner past Maroons goalie
Evan Kaplow, and was immediately
mobbed by his teammates in a post-
game celebration.

“I wanted to ﬁnd an open man and
pass it to him, but we were a man down
so nobody was open and I really didn’t
know what to do” said Dougherty as
he described his heroic game winning
goal. “All of the sudden I saw an open-
ing and Ijust ran; 1 saw an opening in
the goal. I just shot it and it went in
and then I just started going crazy.”

The game was tied 3-3 at the end of
the ﬁrst half as the Generals got first
half goals from sophomore Colin
Dougherty, and freshman Matt Dugan,
and senior Tom Fallace. Both teams
went scoreless during a defensive
third quarter as the game entered the
fourth quarter still deadlocked at three.
The Generals soon took command,
however, as freshman attackman Ben
Lucas scored back-to-back goals to
give the Generals a 5-3 lead with 5:59

to play.

But just as the Generals were be-
ginning to smell the sweet scent of an
upset-victory, the Maroons came back
to tie the and send the game to OT
with two goals in the final 2:40.

Momentum was obviously was
with the Maroons heading into the
overtime but someone forgot to tell
that to the Generals.

“We had it in hand and then here
we are all of the sudden in overtime
down a man,” said Dougherty. “We
were pretty nervous. I’m sure nobody
expected us to come out and score
with a man down like that.”

“We were conﬁdent going into
OT,” added Dugan, the leading scorer
for the Generals who had 1 goal on
Saturday. “It wasn’t the prettiest goal,
but it went in and that’s all that mat-
ters.”

It was a huge victory for the Gener-
als and for their seniors especially, who
had not beaten Roanoke during their
ﬁrst three years at W&L.

“We [the seniors] had never beaten
them before,” commented Dougherty.
“It was one of goals this year for both
the seniors and for the entire team.”

Now the question for the Generals
is whether or not they will face the al-
ways-feared let down aﬁer a big win.
The Generals have been recently
plagued by late-season losses which
have knocked them out of the NCAA
tournament.

“We’re really excited right now but
we have to be really cautious,” said
Dougherty. “We’ve been this high
before and we’ve gotten knocked right
back down.”

“We can’t overlook the weaker
teams,” added Dugan. “We have to
go out and play hard everyday.”

Senior goalie Scott Jackson had
another huge game for the General as
he tied his career-high with 17 saves.

The victory improves the seventh
ranked Generals to 6-1 on the season
and W&L should climb a few slots in
the new poll. The Generals also
knocked off 15th-ranked Connecticut
College 12-8 earlier in the week.

Baseball extends
winning streak to 4

Washington & Lee's baseball
team improved its record to 8-6 and
6-2 in the ODAC by sweeping Emory
& Henry (2-10, 0-2 ODAC) yester-
day afternoon at Smith Field.

In the first game, the Generals
used a three-run second inning in
which the Wasps commited three
errors to grab a 4-1 lead. Sopho-
more right ﬁelder Christian Batcheller
slammed his ﬁfth home run of the
year in the fourth inning to give the
Generals a 5-1 lead. Sophomore sec-
ond baseman Andy Thompson hit a
two-run triple in the ﬁfth inning to
ﬁnish off the scoring at 7-1.

Junior pitcher Bob Weston gave
up seven hits and one run, while
striking out seven and walking none
in seven innings to run his record
to 4-1.

In the second game, junior des-
ignated hitter Patrick Hall broke a 2-

Lexington, Virginia

Accommodations:
'48 Attractive Guest Rooms

‘Non-Smoking Rooms Available

Attractions:

Natural Bridge — 16 miles
'Virginia Military Institute
°Washington & Lee University
‘Virginia Horse Center

‘Color Cable TV — free ESPN and HBO
'King Beds and/or Two Double Beds
‘Scenic Mountain Views from your Room

°Free Continental Breakfast: Free Local Phone Calls
°Restaurants within Walking Distance

‘Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

2 tie in the second inning by sin-
gling homejunior left ﬁelder Mike
Nolan. The Generals added a run
when Thompson was walked with
the bases loaded in the sixth inning.

Sophomore pitcher Chris Stakem
earned his ﬁrst victory of the sea-

.son by pitching seven innings of
six-hit baseball. E&H's Justin Jones
allowed only ﬁve hits in ﬁve innings
pitched.

Earlier in the Week, the Generals
came up with conference wins over
Eastern Mennonite and Hampden-
Sydney. On Tuesday W_&L downed
EMU 8-1 and on Wednesday W&L de-
feated Hainpden-Sydney 9-5.

The Generals have now won eight
of their last eleven games and are on a
four game win streak. They will return
to Smith Field on Tuesday for a 3:00
battle against Eastern Mennonite.

—from staﬂ reports

New Management and Renovations

Econo Lodge

sports

MARCH 23, 1998

JASON ZACHER/EXECUTIVE E01101:

BY ]AsoN ZACHER

SENIOR EMILY GIPSON and freshman Liz Borges prepare to snatch the ball from a Colby defensemen who
has just received a clear/rom her goalie. The Generals went on to lose to the White Mules by a score of 12-8.

Women’s lacrosse resumes
winning ways vs. MW, 13-7

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team split their
two games this week. They
dropped a strong Mary Washing-
ton team Saturday 13-7 after a dis-
appointing loss to Colby College
Thursday.

“The loss to Colby was a good
wake-up call for us,” senior
Whitney Parker said. “We realized
that we needed to get over it and
move on. [Mary Washington] was
a good win for us.”

In addition to getting the Gener-
als back on a winning track,
Saturday’s win also marked coach
Jan Hathorn’s 100th victory at
W&L. Hathom is currently in her
tenth season as coach of the Gen-
erals. The milestone was an-
nounced after the game.

The Generals (8-1, 5-0 ODAC)
led 7-3 at halftime and scored the
ﬁrst two goals of the second half to
open a six-goal lead. Mary Wash-
ington scored three straight goals
to cut their deﬁcit to 9-6 with 21 :56

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

to play. W&L put the game out of
reach by scoring four goals in just over
four minutes.

“I think we really stepped it up on
Saturday,” said junior Lauren Francis.
“We really put it all together.”

Seniors Whitney Parker and
Lorraine Taurassi each scored hat-
tricks for the Generals. Freshman Liz
Borges, Senior Betsy Howe and Se-
nior Mary Jo Mahoney each added
two goals. Junior Cory Metee also
scored for W&L.

Borges, Parker, Taurassi and Senior
Emily Gipson also added an assist
each.

Ginny Jemigan was the story for
the Generals once again, kepping the
Generals in the game by saving 75 per-
cent of Mary Washington’s shots.

“There’s always a couple of players
who step-up every year,” Parker said.
“She’s one of the ones this year. Last
year was very hard for her, playing be-
hind (All-American) Brooke Glenn.
She’s really amazed me this year.”

Despite four goals from Taurassi,

 

the Generals dropped their first
game of the year Thursday to Colby
12-8.

The game was back-and-forth as
the clock neared the 15 minute mark
on the ﬁrst half, but the next 15 min-
utes belonged to Colby. Seven
goals later, Colby took a 8-3 lead into
halﬁime.

Parker added two goals for the
Generals, while Borges and Mahoney
each scored once.

The win over Mary Washington
put the Generals back on the winning
track before their ODAC showdown
when Roanoke College comes to Lex-
ington Thursday at 4:00 p.m.

Roanoke (4-3, 3-1 ODAC) in on a
two-game losing streak, dropping
games to Middlebury and Hartwick.
Roanoke has also lost to Randolph-
Macon and only defeated Mary
Washington by two goals. The Gen-
erals beat both RMC and MWC.

‘‘We’re really psyched,” Parker
said. “In my four years, we’ve only
beaten them once, and they’re our
biggest rivals: We all know there is
a lot on the line.”

 J O C k 3 l1 0 I18 —fr0m sramepom

Women’s Track

Washington and Lee set two
school records and won both events
at the Battleground Relays. The
4x800 relay team of Kathleen
Maroney, Lauren McKeever,
Natasha Dorofeeva and Lisa
Brennan won in a record time of
9:46.0. The distance medley relay
team of Wendy Case, Maroney,
Dorofeeva and Brennan won in a
school record time of 12:59.9.

[F-a‘?‘il

Location:

 

At 1-64 and U.S.ll

RR 7 Box 81
Lexington. VA 24450
703-463-7371
Toll-Free Reservations
1-800-424-4777

to Roanoke 4-

Women’s Tennis

Washington and Lee's women's
tennis team swept both Bridgewater
and Guilford 9-0 in a pair of Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
matches on Saturday as a split
squad. The Generals are 12-3 for the
season. They are continuing an
eight game winning streak since a
loss to Kenyon. Next, the Generals

travel to Emory to try to improve

their record to 13-3 on Friday.

THANK YOU

The women's lax
team would like to
thankJohn Zlmmer
for providing inspi-
ration for the rest
of their season.
Damn it, we're a
competent team!

Design contest ($100 Cash Prize)
Designs due outside Carol Caulkins’ )1
office by April 10th.
Questions? Call 4057 »

Men’s tennis?
grabs 3rd in .
W&L Invite

BY FRANCES GROBERG A
---——:j—--- O’iNIoNs Eorroizv

The W&L men’s tennis team im-
proved their record to 1 1-2 this week-
end, taking 3rd place in the W&L invi-
tational. 7

On Sunday, the team pulled out a
narrow 4-3 victory against Claremont
to clinch the position. Victories were
recorded in singles by Chris Haun,»,
Glenn Miller, Kelly Radford, and David
Lehman. Narrow losses came from
Dale Pretila, Scott Babka, and the
doubles teams of Pretila/Haun,0Babka/
Radford, and Miller/Tom Washbum. )1.

The Generals weren’t as success-
ful against Kalamazoo in the semiﬁ-
nals on Saturday, losing 7-0. Pretila,
Haun, Babka, Miller, Radford, and,
Lehman all took losses in singles. V
Miller did, however, take a set off of
his opponent by a score of 6-3. The
three doubles teams also recorded
losses, including the teams of Pretila/7
Haun, Babka/Radford, and Miller/
Washbum.

To get to the semiﬁnals, W&L de-
feated Kenyon on Friday, 5-2. Win-
ning for the Generals in singles were ‘‘
Pretila, Haun, Miller, Radford, and
Lehman, but Babka lost a close match.
The three doubles teams all lost their
matches to Kenyon, including Pretilal )
Haun, Babka/Radford, and Miller/
Washbum.

Next for the Generals is home on

Wednesday against Lynchburg at 3 :00.
>1

--ﬁfong sitzﬂirepor si

Mock GOP Convention 2000
Applications are now available for 1
positions of secretary and trea-

surer outside of Carol Caulkins’ ofﬁce V
' Logo ,

 

 

rt. 1 g ,_
e ':.."/5« /'9‘--’
  
/0*?

19.2.0

/-
.r

‘

X

/'5 ‘V \'

LI.I
.

_I
06

-

(13 It’s rhyme time: National

Poetry Month is in full swing.

CD W&L musicians are back
from the Greek Isles.

PAGE 3

Y

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 20

 

4 SENIOR CAPTAINS Lorraine Taurassi, Melissa Foote and Whitney Parker hold the Old Dominion Athletic
‘ conference Championship trophy after their victory over Roanoke College. The Generals gave the Maroons a 9-5
spanking, bringing their ﬁnal season record to 13-2, with an ODAC record of 10-0. JASON ZACHER/SENIOR EDITOR

I

Professor Gunn, a Sigma Chi
alumnus, challenges W&L
students to stop hazing.

PAGE 4

he iliing-tum Iﬂlii

BY PoLLY DOIG

’Sophmore arrested for

obstructing justice

(D Wiping chalk off

*' tire to avoid parking
ticket results in
misdemeanor charge

" BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
T SENIOREDITOR
Washington and Lee sophomore
Paul Spencer was charged with ob-
.0 struction of justice Tuesday, after he
removed a chalk mark from his car tire.
Special Services Officer R.D.
Clark marks tires of cars parked in
two—hour and ten-minute parking
4 spaces in Lexington to ensure that
vehicles are not parked for an ex-
cessive amount oftime.
Arresting ofﬁcer F.W. Smith said
that, “Ofﬁcer Clark advised me ear-
“ lier on that day that he had prob-

lems lately with students wiping off A’

the chalk marks on their cars on
Henry Street. I put myselfin a posi-
4 tion where I could observe the stu-

  
   
  
    
  
 
 

. ,, at p j
 as , 
f9V¢r‘f6.fﬁ1e,°YJsn 
"ad°’%W16°a1'mi9t*ébfs9i9ry.. 
. ¢xt99I§‘9n99fﬂ1eﬂév6i§;d9¢:r I
 ui5.:%'1itt1e;ic‘reatedaiini¢Iue..i.

 ,dbot,tledit.”“ " “ 

   

, hp its, special beer,‘
sh saidﬂiatiotlifer  chap-
if I
befex',wine,orchocolatesfirIoeIebta-'

I ofW&L?s2$0th'anniversa1y. 
 Christine. Julian .

dents coming and going from their
cars. I didn’t witness any infractions,
so I went about my regular patrols.”

When Smith was driving down
Henry Street around noon, he ob-
served a young man wiping off the
chalk from his tire.

“He was looking kind of ner-
vously toward Jefferson Street as he
was doing it,” Smith said. “But by
the time he saw me, it was too late.”

Smith said that Spencer looked sur-
prised and tried to get away before he
arrested him and took him to jail.

“I thought, no way they’re going
to arrest me for this,” said Spencer.

Smith took him in anyway.

“I had a nice, sit—down conversation
with him, and he was very quiet on the
way to the jail,” Smith said. “When I
arrested him, his buddies were really
whooping it up, yelling ‘F.W.’s got an-
other one, F.W.’s got another one.”’

Obstruction ofjustice is a Class I
misdemeanor, meaning that if Spen-

cer is convicted at his May .26 trial,
he could receive a year in jail and/
or a $1200 fine. The term obstruc-
tion ofjustice is deﬁned as an ac-
tion by “any person by threat or
force, who attempts to intimidate or
impede a law officer.”

“There was no threat or force on
my part so I thought the charges
were a bit excessive,” said Spencer.

Spencer will plead not guilty and
intends to hire a lawyer.

“They know people do it all the
time so by catching me, they kind of
caught everybody,” said Spencer. “I
just think I took the brunt of it.”

Although Smith says the judge
could go either way in the case, he
admitted that the judge will most
likely ﬁnd Spencer guilty and give
him a ﬁne and possibly probation.

A student appealed as far as the
Virginia Appeals Court on a similar
charge about ﬁve years ago, and the
Court ruled in favor ofthe police.

Elrod waiting for reply
from President Clinton

BY TARAH GRANT
-j-——--— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

ne year has passed since Presi

dent John Elrod sent an invita-
tion to the White House asking Presi-
dent Bill Clinton to speak on respon-
sibility at Washington and Lee
University’s 1999 opening convo-
cation. Elrod hopes to receive a
reply soon.

“How better to call our 250th
birthday to the attention of the na-
tion than by involving the office of
the presidency,” Elrod said.

In April I997, the 250th Commis-
sion selected Clinton to be the key-
note speaker at the 1999 convocation
to be held on Sept. 8, and Elrod
promptly sent him an invitation.

A month later, they received a let-
ter from the White House conﬁrm-
ing that the invitation had been re-
ceived and put on ﬁle, according to
Director of the 250th Observance
Neil Penick. The Commission then

asked alumni and friends ofthe uni-
versity to contact the White House
on its behalf.

‘‘In some cases President Clinton
has told these people personally
that he would like to come but he
can’t commit yet,” said Penick.

The 250th Commission should
hear within the next couple of
months whether Clinton will be able
to attend, according to Penick.

IfClinton declines the invitation,
former Senator Bill Brock (’53) has
agreed to give the 1999 convocation
address.

The 250th Commission was
fonned by Elrod in the winter of 1997
to plan the University’s year-long
250th birthday celebration. Accord-
ing to its website, the Commission
is comprised of4l trustees, emeri-
tus trustees, members of the law
council and alumni board, friends,
parents and alumni of Washington
and Lee.

(D
I-
M
O
D.
U)

 

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY

WN‘-‘4'*!'=ToN & LEE UNIVERSITY

 

2 M .-  VA 24450
MAY 0 1 Q
Men’s lacrosse

suffers a crushing
116 loss to
Hampden—Sydney
in ODAC title game.

PAGE 4

Iiulk kale
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
APRIL 27, 1998

’ I I
SN u s Imprisoned
Retaliation for pubic hair removal leads
to abduction and assault charges

News EDITOR

hat began as a night of

partying ended up on a

lonely country road with
“innocent” college pranks clashing
with the law.

Three members ofthe Sigma Nu
fraternity were arrested and jailed on
charges of abduction and assault
and battery, following an incident
late Thursday night in which they
retaliated against two Sweet Briar
College women for shaving a
brother’s scrotum.

Sophomores Chad Austin Casto
and Ryan William Walker, and fresh-
man Jonathan Paul Barker were all
arrested and jailed on $5,000 bond
in Amherst County.

Additional charges of aggravated
sexual assault were filed Friday
against Sweet Briar students Lisa
Karen Williams, an exchange student
from England, and Jessica Saveall of
Maine, by an additional Sigma Nu
brother. He claims that one women
mounted and began to disrobe him
while the other attempted to shave
his pubic area.

He says the girls realized that he
wasn’t passed out, left the room and
then succeeded in shaving the scro-
tum ofanother brother.

“We are so shocked; it’s just a
countercharge,” said Williams. “The
fraternity is sticking together and
will do anything to make us drop the
charges and to protect themselves.”

Following these incidents,
Casto, Walker and Barker offered to
give the girls a ride back to Sweet
Briar. However, along the way the
brothers stopped near a desolate
cemetery in Amherst County. Ac-
cording to Saveall, the boys bound
the hands and feet of Saveall with
duct tape, lifted her skirt, and threat-
ened to shave her pubic area with
an electric razor.

Seeing this, Williams fled
through the countryside until she
found a barn where she hid for sev-
eral hours.

The threesome left Saveall, and
went in search of Williams. While
they were gone, Saveall managed to
free herself and call the police.
Saveall and local residents searched
for several hours for Williams, until

they found her in the barn ofa Sweet
Briar employee where she was hid-
ing.

Local authorities immediately
arrested and jailed Casto, Walker
and Barker. Barker posted bond on
Friday morning, while Walker and
Casto were released Saturday.

The women claim that the
charges against them are false and
deny shaving the pubic area of a
Sigma Nu brother. “We did not go
after him with a razor. We did not
touch his genitals,” Williams said.

They claim that the incident
was in retaliation for denying
sexual favors to the member of
Sigma Nu who pressed charges
against them.

“It’s just another case of a lot of
boys with a lot of money in a frater-
nity house, who can basically do
whatever they want,” said Williams.

There is no official comment
from Washington and Lee, accord-
ing to Director of Communications
Brian Shaw. “We have to let the
judicial procedures work, then
hand it over to the student judi-
ciary bodies.”

T

 
   
   
  

.,_Mai¥ylan’dL I3as‘t¢iﬁ?Tjsii’¢ré. ems

‘ f iﬂ1iinjuries.t0.Y-héir buttocks

9 hadto “undergo surgery to remove


‘av.

  
  the United states 

" K9PI"!Alph3 P5iP1°Sis'es~afe hosI>i-"I

. 1 woodenfpaddle:over,a‘...t
I ’ period of two.inonths'.,0nepledge
, , W x, S , _ University,BatonRouge,LA.SigmaAl-
, two i5fol1t:i11cl1b.by;2ne’-irich deep gan- ’
, - *— ’ f

“ :r'>'.~d

Keydet George Wade, Jr., said that the
>,‘.tipperclassrnen beat him and five other

9‘ rats with a belt and a coat hanger about
», three times aweek for a month, causing .

Vtwelts and bruises on their buttocks. (Or-
jlando Sentinel, March 23, 1998)
I  I August 1997 - Louisiana State

pha Epsilon pledge Benjamin Wynne,
20,. dies of alcohol poisoning with a

X i _ blood-alcohol level of .588. Three other
I SAE pledges are hospitalized for alco-
S hol poisoning, with one in critical con-
’ dition. SAE pledge, Gavin Fugate, I9,
' ' I later comes forward with allegations of
V ;, :,being sodomized. with a bar of soap,

 

 to  until he vomited blood

I   and forced to slide naked across a glass-
 strewn ﬂoor.» Brothers then allegedly

 his cuts in Tabasco sauce. (Den-

' -5  l5,l998) ‘
 A I February 1997 - University of

-‘Texas-Austin, Austin, TX. Parents of

I  T1995 hazing victim Gabe Higgins win

‘ awrongfui death lawsuit with a $1.09

inillion, settlement. His parents say
V x that the Texas Cowboys spirit group
Ylsubjected  toidrinking games and

;,,dexneainiri'g exercises before he

I Colorado River swim.,'I‘he group?‘ 
denies any hazing. (The Houston’
Chronicle, February 25, 1997)  ,-

I October 1995 - University’. .
of Colorado.-Boulder, Boulder,C0. I

H Phi Kappa Tau pledge Michael “Bo” 
Montoya nearly dies after being
bound neck-to-toe with an extension
cord, duct-taped to a chair, forced

, to drink more than apint of whiskey ,

V and denied important medication}
Montoya and his family success-
fully sue the fraternity for 88,500.
(DenverPosI, March 15, 1998)

I March 1994 - Southeast
Missouri State University, Cape
Girardeau, MO. “Kappa, Alpha Psi
pledge Michael Davis dies of head

‘injuries February 15, 1994. He also
-sustained internal bleeding, broken

‘ ribs, andalaceratedkidney and liver.
His parents sayiDavis was beaten
unconscious aﬁer attempting to run
away. He never regains conscious-
ness. His parents successfully sue
the ﬁaternity for $2.25 million. (St.
Louis Post-Dispatch, December
19, I996).

—~Compiled by Executive
Editor Hollister Hovey

PH0To Eorrok

IN PREPARATION FOR their trip to the Grand C(lIl)'()Il during the last three weeks ofSpring term, .s‘tu(leIIts in
the Geology of the South west class examine the strati g raph y of an outcrop in the Lexington area. CHRISTIE Pm1./Ps/

 

 

  

Zion
    rial

APRIL 27, 1998

Just when the we at the Phi thought things might
get boring around old Lex, we’re faced with news
of poorly shaven scrotums, abductions and an ob-
struction of j ustice with chalk. It’s not even Alumni
Weekend yet. What a welcome to the new staﬁl
Keep up the good work! We can’t wait to see what
you cook up for us next week.

It’s good to have such great news to ease us into
our new reign over the paper with the 100 year his-
tory and a name no one understands. It’s great to be
in control. We thought you’d like to know who ex-
actly it is that ﬁlters the ﬂow of infonnation around here.
TARAH GRANT: The smallest member of the staff,
but wields great power. She’s the president of the
Society of Professional Journalists and the Landon
Lane Memorial Scholar, thejoumalism department’s
highest academic honor.

HoLLIsTER HovEv: Yes, she used to take pictures
and draw the damned infamous Colonnade Club,
but now she shares the top position. So, if you still
have leﬁover misplaced angst about the cartoon, go
ahead and try to complain. Write a letter to the edi-
tor. It’ll have to get past her first. She wrote for the
Kansas City Star for a couple years, and was the
Kansas High School Journalist of the Year.

JoHN STEWART: He’s one of the news guys. Al-
ways late. Always uncombed. He’s got a little
goatee. He’s one of the rare frat boys on staff, so he
adds a completely pro-establishment quotient to the
editorial scheme.

PoLLv Dotc: She’s the other news guy who trans-
ferred here from New York to take the Southemjour-
nalistic world by storm. She’s the only staff mem-
ber with a nose ring.

FRANCES GROBERG: Star LAX player and co-sports
editor. She’s dating the former executive editor, but
that’s unrelated to her rise to fame.

BRENDAN HARRINGTON: Famous sports commenta-
tor for the juggernaut we call WLUR. He’s the Matt
Pinﬁeld of sports knowledge. Try “taking it to the
matt” with him.

ERICA PRossER: Her mother has a sugar glider (don’t
ask, just read her features section next week). She’s
the Kappa Alpha magazine journalism intern.
GINGER PHILLIPS: Freshman features phenom.
STEPHEN PEscE: We wrangled him into doing the
editorial section, then he put himself in TALKback
— a major faux pas, but we’ll forgive him.

KEVIN MCMANEMIN: Our great columnist has taken
over the reigns of the Last Word.

CHRISTIE PHILLIPS: She’s the new photo girl with
major experience under her belt. She took photos
for the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel in high school.
TOM WADLOWZ Dating Tarah. Computer guru/genius.
Put up Phi On-line last year and will continue to make it
a truly interactive experience for you.

THE MONEY PEoPLE: Jill Jamieson rules in this little

faction of C-school types that includes Brian Rogers I

and Steven Klotz. Unlike the rest of us, these guys
actually make money (at the Phi and will in life, too).

@112 iliing-tum ilﬂlti

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Opinion & Editorial Editor Stephen Pesce
Sports Editor Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Last Word Editor Kevin MeManemin
Photo Editor Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco
Business Manager Jill J amieson
Circulation Manager Brian Rogers
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “My Views”
do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060

Fax: (540)462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

http://wlu.ea'u/~phi

Rumble at
registration

What do you get when you take a few hundred PE-
desperate students, wake them before dawn, sit them in
the gym and let them stew for a few hours?

At Washington and Lee, you almost get a riot.

 
  

 2 ed Brick Row
 David Balsley ’99

Such was the situation on Monday morning in the
Warner Center. By 7:30, so many people had come to
sign up for PE classes that the line looped from Doremus
Gym down the hall and back again to the gym. When
sign-up began, the people at the end of the line rushed to
join the people at the front of the line. Students from the
middle of the line, who now found themselves at the end,
were left to wonder just what the hell the latecomers
thought they were doing.

PE registration should match registration for other
courses: it should be divided by class, with upperclass-
men signing up before underclassmen. This would cut
back on the number of people waiting in line for PEs. It
would also make it easier for seniors to get the PEs they
need to graduate. Hopefully, it would also prevent scenes
like the one that occurred last Monday.

Although splitting registration this way would help
upperclassmen, it would hurt freshmen and sophomores,
preventing some of them from racking up gym credits in
their first few years at W&L. This could mean that stu-
dents would have to take more PEs during their junior
and senior years, which may not be what we want. This
could be the main disadvantage of registering for PEs by
class.

The need to offer gym classes to graduating seniors,
however, justiﬁes disadvantaging underclassmen. Also,
splitting PE registration by class would not prevent all
freshmen and sophomores from taking gym courses.
Some students would ﬁnish their PE requirements later
than others, but in the end, everyone would have the op-
portunity to take one last gym course if they needed to.

PE registration could be altered so that upperclassmen
would sign up in the morning and underclassmen in the
afternoon. It would be better, however, if juniors and
seniors could register on Monday and everyone else on
Tuesday. This would allow everyone more ﬂexibility in
registering for PEs. It would also benefit upperclassmen
with Monday morning classes or underclassmen who have
class in the afternoon. I

A second option for alleviating PE lines would be to
use gym registration as a test case for online registration.
If the Registrar’s Office would like to switch to online
registration, it could first require students to sign up for
PE courses by computer, using a scaled-down version of
the system intended for all course registration. This would
help shake bugs out of the system and test its usefulness,
as well as give students a chance to sleep in.

Given what happened last Monday, do we need marked
queues to make sure that students stay in line at PE regis-
tration? I don’t think so. The people who almost jumped
the line last week eventually returned to the end. So long
as students remember that the Honor System applies ev-
erywhere, including PE registration, we should be alright.

  

uote of the Week:

1 did :{3t go after him with a
razor; I did not touch his
genitals.

— Lisa Karen Williams
explaining her weekend at Sigma Nu , 7

Write a letter to 771eRz'ng-tum H612

Turn in letters to the Phi Of-
ﬁce by 5 p.m. on Friday for pub-
lishing in the next week’s edition.
Or join the Phi staff. Writers,
photographers, cartoonists and
all types of special helpers are
always needed.

....-a

l I 
   U D

by Jean Rowan

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

For Fraternity Gentlemen:
A Decent Proposal

To all members of the W&L fraternity system:

Let me get this straight, enduring hardships brings the
sufferers closer together and actually endears them to their
antagonists. Let us accept this porposition and ask, what’s
all the fuss about? The KAs should become even closer
with one another and, when this ordeal is over, they will
be closer to the admnistration.

What? This reasoning is ﬂawed? So too is the propo-
sition then, so we cannot rely on reason to justify hazing.
Can we rely on the law? What about God or morality?
Hmmm...0kay, honor? Considering all fraternities have
signed promises not to haze and yet we do, this seems
doubtful. Oh! Tradition, that’s it.

Lee always promoted tradition. Yet, Lee’s tradition
was honor and discipline. Discipline is good reason for
pledge activities, but activities with discipline also give
one a sense of dignity. Diapers, laxatives, and dignity.
Okay, so we’ve even failed that test. The only reason left
to haze is to justify why we suffered through these things.
To change would be to admit we were wrong to endure it.
This is a good reason, but it is no excuse when every other
value we hold dear screams against hazing.

Wait! What about unity, that is surely important. True,
suffering does give people a strong common bond. Hos-
tage survivors will always have that in common and be
able to share and help each other cope with their feelings.
Do we really have to survive horrible experiences to be
each other’s friends? Well, no there are other ways.

Come on gentlemen, what are our intentions? We moan
about losing autonomy, but autonomy only works when it
is exercised. When is the last time (outside of the honor
code) that students truly punished other students? The
IFC slaps people on the wrists, but in the end we all treat
each other gently in the hope that when (not it) our par-
ticular fraternity gets caught, everyone else will take pity.
If we want to complain about student power, let’s at least
use it so we can point and say, “We are responsible.” In-
stead we kick at the ground and pout like boys when we
are caught.

The real victims from those last few weeks of Winter
Term truly are the KA pledges. They deserve to have a
fraternity and I am pleased that it sounds like the admin-
istration will let them come back in 1999. However, to
imply that the fraternity should not be punished is outra-
geous.

We know when we break the rules; we all do it in some
form. We know the consequences and accept the risks.
When men get caught, they admit their guilt and take
their punishment, bearing it with quiet dignity.

I have never been more proud of this school’s sense of
honor than when I read everyone involved came forward
of his own accord. Let us not ruin the only digniﬁed mo-
ment in this whole mess by circling the wagons and cry-
ing foul; we all know better.

We accuse Elrod of doing something wrong, for pro-
tecting the welfare of students and for guarding the Uni-
versity against liability (and for enforcing hazing rules
we students made). We accuse Elrod for doing his job.
We pat ourselves on the back because we don’t want to do
our jobs. This attitude will not ensure the survival of a
strong Greek system on this campus, but will likely bring
about the opposite.

Gentlemen, when do we become men?

Gregory Scot Kees
Class of 1998

A Challenge to W&L Students
Why Hazing is a Bad Thing

1. Hazing is childish.

2. Hazing by fraternity members is hypocritical. It is
totally irreconcilable with the declared high ideals of fra-
temities.

3. Hazing works in opposition to the proper mission of
the University.

4. Hazing is a criminal act under the laws of the Com-
monwealth of Virginia, and those who commit it are sub-
ject to criminal penalties.

5. Arguments advanced in attempts to justiﬁy hazing
are specious at best and silly at worst. It is an inferior
way to seek bonding in a group of young people.

6. Hazing is a cheap shot at younger students, taking
advantage of their naivete and their desire to prove them-
selves and to be accepted by the group, not realizing that
they can decline from doing this.

7. Hazing is ungrateful in a University that has devoted
tremendous financial resources and much human effort
to enhancing the fraternity experience.

8. Hazing is dreadful public relations in a world un-
sympathetic to fraternities to begin with. Among other
things, it plays into the hands of those who would take
away the tax exemptions now enjoyed by fraternities.
9. Hazing undemrines the credibility of the friends of
the fraternity system, those of us who see large potential
in the system for contributing to constructive develop-
ment of young people are frustrated repeatedly in its
defense, and disappointed ourselves, by a system that
approaches its potential so seldom.

10. Hazing in any particular fraternity at W&L at this
time makes its president to be either an ineffective leader
or an insincere and unreliable person, since all the frater-
nity presidents assured that it would not happen this year.

But the most important faults:

1 1. Hazing puts strain on the Honor System. It appears
very likely that a number of falsehoods have been ut-
tered by a number of different people, in denying it.

12. Hazing is extremely risky, in several regards:

a. It risks the health, and even the lives, of those
subjected to it.

b. It risks criminal penalties for those who com-
mit it. In recent years, every death in the United States
that resulted from hazing, and many serious injuries,
has led to conviction and imprisonment.

c. It risks ﬁnancial ruin for both the local and
the national fraternity, for individuals, and perhaps for
their parents.

13. Worst of all, it is demeaning to those upon whom it
is committed and destructive to their self-conﬁdence and
sense of self worth.

In short, hazing is a hateful practice.

It is a blot on the University.

It is a much larger blot on the fraternities that tolerate it.
It is a still larger blot on the individuals who commit it.
It is a blot of a different sort on those who submit to it.

For these reasons, I challenge every W&L student to
face this issue with intellectual honesty, to consider the
real and potential harms of hazing, as well as its enor-
mous risks, and then to live up to your own highest ideals.

John M. Gunn
Lewis Whitaker Adams Professor Emeritus of Economics
Class of 1945, Member of Sigma Chi Fraternity

What was the most interesting thing you did over Spring Break?

E” ‘K, .  ‘V’
TALKo Ci:

 

“I went bungee jumping.”

—Shana Levine ’Ol

“I went to Greece with the
wind ensemble.”

—Lauren LaFauci ’0l

 

“I took my friends for a snipe
hunt for animals that don’t exist.”

~Nathan Urquhart ’0l

as the Elrods.”

“I got to ride on the same plane

—-Stephen Pesce ’0l

*4

 

is

 

APRIL 27, 1998

April goes from bad to verse

<1) It’s National Poetry Month, and W&L has both rhyme AND reason

BY ERICA PRossER

Question: If roses are red, what color are violets?

All right, so that question is a little too easy. This might be
a bit harder: Do you know why the caged bird sings? Or what
happens to a dream deferred? Or what force through the green

fuse drives the ﬂower?

Stumped yet? Then maybe you should take advantage of

National Poetry Month.

National Poetry Month, held in April of each year, was
established in 1995 by a coalition ofAmerican poets, organiza-
tions, publishers, Iibraries and educators, including the Ameri-

can Poetry & Literacy Project and
the Academy of American Poets.
The purpose: to celebrate poetry
and its place in American culture.

Though the event might be young
by some standards, Washington and
Lee University has celebrated it since
its inception. In fact, we’re celebrat-
ing it right now.

R.T. Smith, editor of Shenandoah
literary magazine, is the coordinator of
all W&L Poetry Month events. He
brings speakers to campus, organizes
displays in the library and prints free
poetry for the W&L community.

“[National Poetry Month] is a
great idea,” he said. “We start prepar-
ing for it about two months in ad-
Vance.”

Perhaps you noticed a television
set up in the lobby of Leybum library
earlier this month; the tape playing
was made last year when local poets
read their work aloud to celebrate Na-
tional Poetry Month.

This year, Smith booked the
Fairfax Lounge on April 22 for another
reading, this one by two visiting po-
ets. The lounge was a good choice of
location, he said.

“Some people think that a poetry
reading has to be in an auditorium,” he
said. “This was a quiet and intimate
setting. We had about 40 people there,

so the room was full, but it was comfortable.”

The featured readers were Elizabeth Seydel Morgan and
Reetika Vazirani. Morgan was a faculty member at W&L about
10 years ago, and Vazirani will be the poet-in-residence at Sweet
Briar College for the next academic year. Smith called the event a
success, though very few students appeared in the audience.

Okay, so you might have missed the reading. Now what?
Well, with ﬁnancial help from the library, Smith was able to print
about 200 copies of a poem by Chinese poet Li P0.

The poem is called “The Fisherman,” and it appeared on bul-
letin boards all over campus in early April. Smith enlisted the help
of two Chinese friends to translate the poem and create the callig-

Br FEATURES EDITOR

raphy in the background. If you can ﬁnd a copy, you can keep it.
Smith printed the poems as a gift to the W&L campus.

If you’d like something else poetic to look at, visit the display
cases in Leybum. The cases contain books by Virginia poets and

posters printed with poems by campus bards.

books for anyone interested.

Keen even has a grant to write

R.T. SMITH, editor of Shenandoah, organizes all the
Poetry Month events at W& L. His most recent book of
poetry is Trespasser, and he is currently working on a
series of Civil War poems. HOLLISTER HOVEY/EXECUTIVE
EDITOR

suggestions.

tion might:

said.

[Vazirani] will be there,” he said.
In thinking of ways to get students more
involved with the activities, he had a couple of

, » “Next year, I’d like to do something a little
more pop,” he said. “Maybe a performance poet "
and a more ‘literary’ poet side by side.”

If that doesn’t grab you, his other sugges-

“I think it would be a good idea to require
that students attend some of these readings,” he

The Lexington Public Library also has a display of poetry and

You say you don’t know any local poets? Au contraire. Most of
the W&L English Department faculty members are poets; Dr. Suzanne

poetry. She did not get too involved
with the events this year, but she has
been involved in the past.

“National Poetry Month is a nice
idea,” she said. “It doesn’t have an
impact on my relationship to poetry,
but that’s because I work with poetry
all the time.”

Poetry is now celebrated across
America every April, but this year’s
national celebration is especially
unique: Andrew Carroll, Executive Di-
rector of the American Poetry & Lit-
eracy Project, has been driving a truck
from New York to San Francisco, dis-
tributing 100,000 free poetry books to
the people he meets. Like a modem-
day Johnny Appleseed, he’s stopping
in small towns and large cities alike,
spreading verse to the masses.

A poetry reading was also held at
the White House last weekend, fea-
turing Poet Laureate Robert Pinsky
and former Poet Laureates Rita Dove
and Robert Hass. Overall, National
Poetry Month is a national big deal
that spreads the good of verse to ev-
eryone it can.

So April is almost over, and
you’ve missed most of the fun?
Don’t despair; Smith is already pon-
dering ideas for next year’s celebra-
tion.

“We might do ajoint thing with
Sweet Briar next year, since

FOR the

    
  

N¢““'

EDUCATIO

“heﬂiiietkeanent 

Te

cuties: .
. - ~\Av’ " ’
no n.;x;:k_ ,,l'§“itnr\'t

  
 

' A AND “";NﬁU\

N aiiiz RESEARCH COMMUNITY-

  

 

 

- ville alli"ﬂ’""“i.mm

,A1“l€§Y;£€%.ETlREN\ENT . . . .
PL , feipttstetl»

   PAINKILLER. 

   



W&life

PAGE 3

Blackwa ter 8 jbgackfi res

BYHENRYGOLA

H173rAn=WRntR ,

Rating: ﬁsh’ of5 I I I‘ I 

[Rating system: 0= terrible; l= poor; 2 =__fair; 3 =- good‘ 4 I excellent; 5 = classic]

 

Last year during the Super Bowl in New (Orleans, llucked out and got a front row seat to
see the well—known blind Blues guitarist Brian  raw intensity and passion for his
music gave the crowd that was jammed into the small, sweaty club a great experience. Robert
Bradley, a veteran blind singer-songwriter out of Detroit, evokes some of the same passion on
his Blackwater Surprise album. I 1 , V  I  ‘ i  1 I I V I I.

“Most of the time, it was something I’d just write on the spot as it came into my head,”
said Bradley of his music. “Basically, a ‘ i‘
I’m a singer. I wasn’t on the street
because I was hungry, or homeless.
I was there because I’m a player. _I I
wanted to sing.” ,

The band is made up of Michael
Nehra (guitar), his brother Andrew
(bass), drummer Jeff F owlkes and
keyboardist ‘Tim Diaz. The group
supports their sound and their pas-
sionate leader. I

“This is just something that’s so V
obvious, so natural and effortless,”
said Andrew. “Robert’s vision and
ours wasaperfect blend. We spent
hours having fun jamming until we
found our sound.” _ e

That sound has quite‘ a follow-
ing, as well; the group has  with I
The Dave Matthews Band, BigHead_ ' ,2 i I ; I V . I
Todd and the Monsters, Cowboy‘Mouth, and other popu groups. Parts of this album live
up to the «band’s apparent reputation:  group ' acks up.;B d1ey’s raspy vocals with upbeat
funk on the first track, “Bellybone,”  A movothirh , , on “Turn.” Despite the versa-
tility ofthe group, though,/the bandlineinbers tnt  newer songs. . They stick to
average, stale riffs and beats that smell of adult co emporary radio. “The song “Shake It Off,”
which sticks out as the only ’70—ish guitar song, sounds] e adirect rip, of Led Zeppelin.

The strength of the album, however, is Bradleyfsexperience, which he channels through
his lyrics and emotional voice.‘ (Tackling subjects in lit‘ in CaIifornia‘coffee houses (“Cali-
fornia”) to political problems (“Governor”) to roman ic  1unphs‘(‘§‘l5‘or the Night”), Bradley’s

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
     
  
 
 

, wails sound sincere. Brian McCoIlum of the Detroit Free Press noticed Bradley’s vitality and

spontaneityin concert, and he sawpit as unique: , _
“Bradley’s irnprov explodes into a,su‘cjak pf static,,
set ends with a ham, and thekids go nuts  kn ' 
special.” O; T’ ’  ..
The outcome for this album: The spirit is williri bu

     
   
 

eato,screams,” he wrote. “The
ve seen, something really, really

3   -

 

,   -.us:u«isi«\mw£mu  “ ‘ ,
- . - -. .

_ .

"BY‘GINGERPHlLI.H’S' . .. ~., ..
- V V V 4 ’ HFFFAHRFS EDITOR

For many students, Spring Break consisted of sleeping for hours on end and
tanning in the backyard, but for some Washington and Lee University musicians it
was quite a different story. Members of the University Orchestra, Wind Ensemble
and Jazz Band packed up their violins, cellos and trumpets for a trip to Greece.
Fifty-eight students and three professors spent eight days surrounded by ancient
ruins and the timeless beauty of Greece.

“The trip was amazing,” junior Jason Hahn, a baritone sax player, said. “It was
a wonderful opportunity to perform and visit a beautiful country.”

The students stayed in the capital city of Athens for the majorityof the trip.
There they dazzled guests at the Athens Hilton Hotel with two concerts. The
group also had a large audience at another concert in Nafplion, a small town on the
Greek coast.

“The people of the town were so excited that we came,” freshman Lauren
LaFauci said.

While the main purpose of the trip was to share W&L’s musical talent with
another part of the world, students were also able to see many wonderful cities and
sights. Students toured the Acropolis, the city of Mycenae and the National
Archeological Museum.

“It was interesting to ﬁnally connect ancient Greek history in our minds,” said
LaFauci. “Playing music was part of the trip, but actually experiencing the country
itself was something that we would maybe never get to do without this trip.”

The group also went on a cruise to the Aegean islands of Aegina, Poros and
Hydra. Some students were stuck on Aegina for several extra hours when they
missed the ferryboat back to the mainland. They took advantage of the time to explore
the island on motorbikes. Renting the bikes proved to be another problem because
the students did not have their passports, which were required for the rentals. Fortu-
nately, the generous employee accepted their driver’s licenses instead.

Although the students did not stay with host families, freshman percussionist
Kate Muter said, “Even in a hotel we were able to interact with the people and get
a lot of cuIture.’’ ,

Muter summed up the experience when she said, “I would go again in a minute.”

or fast relieffrom the nagging ache oi‘ taxes. we
Frecommend TIA.-\-CREF SRr\s. SR.-\s are tax-
delerred annuities that can help you build additional
assets-money that can make the dillerence between
living and living --'c// in retirement.

Contributions to SRr\s are con\'enientl_\' deducted
from your sal;rr_\‘ on a pretax basis. The result? .'~iore
money il"l\'€SIL‘(I. Fewer taxes now. And since im-estrnc-nt
earnings are nix (lair-rrcrl until you r'ecei\'e them its
income, the lI1l\l’lL'_\'_\'0ll don} svml to \\';r>lringrmi run

\\'OI'I( EVEN I'1¢'|I'(I€‘I' L0!‘ .\’()U.

til

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.

 

'l'I.\.\«CI(l".l-' Iui|nulu.il .i-ril Ill>III||lIlI|\.lI Sci \Il\\tlI~|lllI|lIt‘~ L'l(|-.l- IV

\\/hat else do SR.'\s oIler'.’ A full range oi‘ investment
choices. a helpful loan feature. and the linancizil expertise
oliTI:\.>\-CRHF. the world's largest retirement system."

Now .VIore \\'a_ys to iVIeet Your Goals

To(Iu_\' TI.'\i‘\.-CRISI" can help you meet even more
ol'_'.'our linuncial objectives. with IR.-\s. mutual funds.
ziml more. \\'e'Il helpyou select the solutions that suit
_\'our neerls. Visit _\'our l)(-_’nt’l-ll.\‘ olliru or call us at
I 800 842-2776 to It'&lI'll inure

Do it l0LIll‘\’--II C0llI(I|'I’I hurt.

Visit us on the Internet at www.ti.1a-cref.org

II.l~\’lI mi |\\\‘I\ lI|Ill\‘l llI.llI.|£.'\'IIIK'I’1l
i-- .iuil |Illllt'~Ix in llw 'l’|.\.\ R\'.ll li~r.iu» \\\lIlII\l I-"iii IIIIII l' iiiiiiplir. llllkll llhlllllll.
lII\Ill1lI|I'.' \I|.Il‘E\‘\.llllll'\'|\'l|>\'\\.IlI ixoo.\'4'_'.'_".... .\i_ ).\Il‘I. I... Il\r |tHr\'i|_'\|l|~0\ R.-...l lI\I'Ill ..ii-.-iiillr l)\IlrI\' \r\\l IrI\r<~I ...- ...i,l IIllIlI\’\

in default.

Recruiter.

 

VV&L_ musicians   go GR€€K

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY
YOUR LOAN.

After just three years in
the Army, your college loan
could be a thing of the past.

Under the Army’s Loan
Repayment program, each
year you serve on active duty
reduces your indebtedness by
one-third or $1,500, whichever
amount is greater, up to a
$65,000 limit.

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans
and certain other federally insured loans which are not

And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army
will give you. Get the whole story from your Army

703 886-2651

 ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Surf and Turf in Lex

( :rab your running shoes, a bike
and a canoe and participate in

the 23rd Annual Lexington Road and
River Relay on Saturday, May 2. The
relay will begin at 10 a.m. with a 3.5
mile run, followed by a 9.1 mile bike
ride, a 2.4 mile canoe/kayak course and
an additional l.l mile run.

Pre-registration forms for indi-
viduals or teams of up to ﬁve mem-
bers can be picked up at City Hall or
the Chamber ofCommerce. The costs
are $60 per team or $20 per individual.
Serious competitors can show offtheir
skills, and fraternities and sororities
can show their spirit orjust have fun
outdoors. For more information, call
Jon Ellestad at 463-7 I 33.

CORRECTION

Two actors were omitted from the
March 23rd article on the Festi-
val of One-Acts. Anne Hazlett
starred in “Impromptu,” and
Scott McKelvey appeared in
“Gladiator.” The Phi apologizes
for the omission.

 

 

PAGE 4

sports

APRIL 27, 1998

335%" °"* Women’s lacrosse wins ODAC

of ODAC’s;
splits Guilford

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

Go-Srroms Barron

Two weeks ago the Generals sat atop the ODAC
standings with an 8-2 record and looked to be well on
their way to qualifying for the ODAC tournament. Two
weeks and ﬁve losses later the Generals are on the out-
side looking in.

The Generals’ tournament hopes died yesterday af-
ternoon when Bridgewater swept a double-header from
Emory & Henry and knocked the Generals out of the
playoff picture, claiming the fourth seed in next
weekend’s four-team double elimination tournament in
Lynchburg.

Going into Saturday afternoon the Generals’ playoff
situation was more complicated than an advanced math
class. Ifthe Generals would have won both games in
their double-header at Guilford on Saturday they would
have qualified for the tournament regardless of
yesterday’s Bridgewater victories.

But the Generals could only manage to win one of
the games against Guilford as they won the ﬁrst game

18-6 and lost the second game 6-3. They had to wait
and watch to ﬁnd out ifthey would qualify for the tour-
nament.

The Generals kept their playoff hopes alive after they
won the first game against the Quakers (1 1-5 ODAC,
19-20 overall) 18-6 on Saturday afternoon as the Gener-
als scored a season 18 runs on 14 hits.

Sophomore Christian Batcheller hit his eighth and
ninth home runs ofthe season, including a grand slam
to tie his own single season record. Sophomores
Schulyer Marshall and David Hanson also went yard
while freshman Josh Glober pitched a complete game
and picked up the victory.

In the second game, the Generalsjumped out to a 3-
1 lead in the top of the fourth and it looked like they
might not have to worry about the Bridgewater games
on Sunday. Rusell Wrenn had an RBI single in that
inning and Mike Elder had a two-run triple. But the
Quakers got one back in the bottom of the fourth and
broke the game open in the ﬁfth on a three run homer
by Chris Butcher and went on to the 6-3 win.

The Generals lost two games earlier in the week as
they lost 9-2 at Lynchburg on Monday and 11-9 at
Hampden-Sydney on Wednesday. The Generals ﬁnish
the year 9-7 in the ODAC and 12-13 overall.

Tennis teams

victorious in ODA C

Pretila. All three doubles teams were
victorious over their opponents.
The women’s tennis team also

BY FRANCES GROEERG
———————-——— CO-SPORTS Barron

Once again, the men’s and

SOPHOMORE KATHERINE Riddle blows by her defender in the women's lacrosse ODAC

Championship against Roanoke College on Sunday. The Generals defeated the defending

champion Maroons by a score of 9-5.

 ;Gﬂ_ Sm, Em,

It was a win four years in the mak-
ing.

Since their last Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship
in 1993, the Generals have been con-
tinually frustrated by Roanoke Col-
lege. Washington and Lee (13-2, 10-
0 ODAC) exacted their revenge over
the third-seeded Maroons on Sun-
day 9-5.

“l’m speechless,” senior Whitney
Parker said after the game, “This is
what l’ve worked for all these
years.”

The Generals opened the scor-
ing only 40 seconds into the game
en route to a 2-0 lead. Roanoke (10-
6, 7-3 ODAC) evened the score a
few minutes later, but freshman Liz
Borges scored her three goals in the
next 17im’inutes to open a 6-2 lead.

“The team played so well to-
gether today,” coach Jan Hathorn
said. “It would be hard to single any
individual player out.”

The win snapped Roanoke’s
string of four consecutive ODAC
championships, including last
year’s 7-6 win over W&L.

“We had to get revenge because
we lost to them last year, twice. It’s
about. time we beat them,” said
sophomore Katherine Riddle.

Parker and senior Lorraine
Taurassi each scored two goals for
the Generals, senior Mary Jo
Mahoney and Riddle added one a
piece.

Roanoke senior Ali Oglesby, the
second-leading scorer in the ODAC,
did not score, due to a smothering
Generals’ defense and several big
saves by sophomore goalkeeper
Ginny Jernigan. Oglesby scored ﬁve
times in the first meeting this sea-
son.

Jernigan made 18 saves, in addi-
tion to the 15 she made in the semi-
ﬁnal game Saturday. ' ' ‘

“She realy played huge today,”
Hathorn said.

The Generals dominated play for
the ﬁrst 50 minutes of the game,
opening a 9-3 lead. Roanoke scored
two quick goals near the nine-
minute mark, but it was too little, too
late. The vocal Roanoke fans con-
tinually berated the officiating
throughout the tournament, blaming
the ofﬁcials for Roanoke’s misfor-
tunes during the title game.

It was the second time this sea-
son W&L has topped Roanoke, the.
ﬁrst coming at the end of March 10-
9. The first win helped boost the
Generals’ conﬁdence.

“In past years we’ve played
scared,” Parker said. “This year we
were excited and conﬁdent.”

“When a team has their way with
you for so long, you become a little
intimidated,” Hathorn said. “The
fact was, we weren’t intimidated to-
day, it wasn’t even a thought.”

W&L will now wait for March 3,
when the NCAA tournament pair-
ings will be announced. According
to Athletic Director Mike Walsh,
W&L is “on the bubble.” Three
teams will advance from the southern
region, and W&L is one of four teams
with a shot. Johns Hopkins is almost
assured of moving on. Before their
two wins this weekend, the Generals
were ranked eleventh in the nation,
dropping four spots after a late-sea-
son loss to St. Mary’s (Md.).

Hathorn sits on the tournament
committee and could not comment
on W&L’s odds.

The Generals ﬁnish the season
with the best regular-season record
in ODAC history, and the lowest
goals-per-game average in the
league this season at 7.2.

“I’m just enjoying this victory,”
Parker said, “I’m not worried about
the NCAA’s right now.”

 

Men’s lax loses heartbreaker 11-6

BY BRDJDAN HARRINGION
:———— cospoms FDrroR

The Hampden-Sydney Tigers
used a lethal combination of preci-
sion passing and overpowering de-
fense to defeat Washington and

women’s tennis teams proved their
dominance in the ODAC conference
by wrapping up title victories this
weekend.

The men, playing at Guilford Col-
lege, racked up 71 points, beating
their closest opponent, Hampden-
Sydney by 16 points, recording 55
points.

Wins were posted by freshman
Chris I-laun, junior Scott Babka, se-
nior Glenn Miller, freshman Kelly
Radford, andjunior David Lehman.
A loss was recorded byjunior Dale

defeated their opponents by an ex-
tremely wide margin. The Generals
earned 72 points. Second place
Hollins earned a meager 34.5 points.

Senior Ericka Shapard, sopho-
more Brook Hartzell, senior Berry
Blankinship, sophomore Erin
Eggers, freshman Christina
Campbell, and freshman Anne
Castello all recorded victories. All
three women’s doubles also won.

Next for the women’s team is the
NCAA tournament, which will be
held at W&L from May 5-11.

Track finishes
3rd, 4th in ODACs

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

Co—SPoRrs EDrroR

The men’s and women’s track teams took third and fourth respectively at
the ODAC track championships on Saturday afternoon in Bridgewater.

The men ﬁnished with 52 points behind ﬁrst place Lynchburg (134) and
second place Bridgewater (61), ahead of fourth place Roanoke (17) and ﬁfth
place Eastern Mennonite (5). Omar Moneim led the way for the men, winning
the shot put (45 1/4 ft.), taking second in the discus, and fourth in thejavelin.
Senior Will Olson won the 1500 in 4:04.88 and ﬁnished third in the 5,000 while
teammate Jason Callen ﬁnished second in the 5,000 and ﬁﬁh in the 1,500.

The women ﬁnished ahead of ﬁfth place Eastern Mennonite (17) and be-
hind ﬁrst place Bridgewater (76), second place Roanoke (65), and third place
Lynchburg (59). Natasha Dorofeeva ﬁnished ﬁrst in the 800 and set a school
and meet record with a time of 2: 1 8. I 6. Meredith Mlynar won the javelin throw
(98 ft.-10 in.) and the 4x 1 O0 relay team made up of Dorofeeva, Kathleen Moroney,
Laurin McKeever, and lsaris Bonilla ﬁnished ﬁrst in a time of 4:1 1.73, which

was just off a school record.

Leel 1-6 on Saturday afternoon at
Wilson Field. The win gave the Ti-
gers their third Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championship
while also putting them in excellent
position to grab one ofthe top four
seeds in the NCAA tournament.

The Generals faced two unlucky
breaks in the first half that didn’t
help their cause. Senior captain Robb
Greenﬁeld was knocked out of the
game with a concussion just 19 sec-
onds into the game and a question-
able three minute stick penalty at
the beginning of the second quar-
ter cost the Generals two goals. But
despite the untimely events, the Ti-
gers dominated from start to finish.

“Both of those events played
key roles in the game,” said se-
nior captain Paul Stanley, who
scored two goals on Saturday.
“Things would probably have
gone different ifthose two things
didn’t happen, but it’s still no ex-
cuse. The bottom line is that we
didn’t go out and do the things
we practiced all week.”

Things went wrong for the Gen-
erals from the very beginning as
Greenfield’s concussion left him
unable to return until the fourth
quarter, when he scored a goal the
first time he touched the ball.

“Losing Greenﬁeld really hurt
and it really hurt team morale,” said
freshman attackman Matt Dugan.
“Robb is not only a lacrosse player,
he’s our emotional leader.”

The Tigers jumped out to a 1-0
lead two minutes into the game on
the first of five goals by junior
midﬁelder Doug Parker. Three min-
utes later the Generals bounced back
and tied the game 1-1 on a goal by
freshman attackman Ben Lucas.

That would be the last time the
Generals would tie the game, as
freshman attackman John Neely
scored back—to-back goals in the ﬁ-

SENIOR PAUL Stanley tries to beat his defender in the Hampden-Sydney-

nal 2:30 of the half to give the Ti-
gers a 3-1 lead at the end ofthe ﬁrst
quarter.

At the beginning of the second
quarter Tom Super was given a 3:00
penaly for a long stick violation. The
penalty was the result of one ofthe
random stick checks that take place
each game after the ﬁrst and third
quarters. It was highly unusual for
the referees to chose Super, how-

Tigers battle on Saturday. The Tigers beat W&L I 1-6 in the ODAC Champi-

onship game.

ever, as they do not usually pick a
player who is often involved in the
faceoff. Super’s stick was deter-
mined legal at the beginning ofthe
game but during the course of the
game was bent as a result of his par-
ticipation in the faceoff.

On the resulting extra man advan-
tage, Doug Palmer scored two goals
to give the Tigers a 5-1 lead.

Senior Tom Fallace added a goal
for the Generals two minutes later
to cut the lead to three but Palmer
scored his fourth goal with 10:06 left
in the half to and the Tigers took a
6-2 lead into the locker room.

In the second half the Generals
cut the lead to three on three sepa-
rate occasions but that was as close
as they would come. Greenﬁeld’s
goal in the fourth quarter made the
score 9-6, but the Tigers’ Chammie
Burroughs then scored two of his
three goals to make the ﬁnal score
11-6.

The Generals are at Randolph-
Macon on Wednesday before re-
turning home to take on VMI in
the 11th annual Lee-Jackson La-
crosse Classic on Saturday.

There is a strong possibility
that the Generals could meet up
with this same Hampden-Sydney
team in the NCAA tournament be-
cause of the tournaments’ re-
gional setup.

“We know we might see this
team again in the tournament and
we look forward to playing them
again,” said Dugan. “This loss
does not ruin our season.

“We want to see them again in
the tournament so we can show
them that we’re the better team,”
said Stanley. “We want revenge.”

RESULTS
, MEN’S
MEN’S LAX MEN’S TENNrs* BASEBALL WOMEN s TRACK LAX
H_S H w&L6 w&L 71, 11.5 55 W&L 18, GC6 4"‘ place in ODACs
’ , * , * CC 6» W&L-7’ MEN’S TRACK W€d~ @ R-M

WOMEN s LAX WOMEN s TENNIS H_s 1 1, W&L 9 3... place in ODACS
W&L 9, RC 5 W&L 72, Hollins 34.5 Lynchburg 9, W&L 2 Sat. vs. VMI

GOLF . Il:ee-éackson

3"‘ place at Lynchburg invitational *0D/‘C C/“Imps ax ass“:

UP NEXT. . .

WOMEN’S WOMEN’S
LAX TENNIS
NCAA Toumy NCAA Toumy
Time and @ W&L
Location May 5-1 1

TBA

MEN’S GOLF
TENNIS

NCAA Regional Mon. & Tues.
May 8 ODAC Toumy
TBA

‘i

 

 

 

A

vi»

Q

A

IAPRIL 27, 1998

PAGE 5

 

FOREIGN STUDENT SPEAKS AT REUNION

"1’ A keynote address by Phillippe Labro ’58, a noted French author
and journalist, will kick off the alumni weekend festivities 8:30 p.m.
Thursday in Lee Chapel. The title ofhis speech is “As The World Turns:
W&L 40 Years Later.”

Labro’s best selling novel, The Foreign Student, is based on his college

I years at W&L in the mid-’50s.

ACLU LEADER VISITS W&L
Ward Connerly, Chairman of the American Civil Rights Institute, will explain
‘I why affirmative action should be abolished during his speech in Lee Chapel on
Wednesday. Connerly has gained national attention as an outspoken advo-
cate of equal opportunity for all Americans, regardless of race or sex. The
lecture, which is sponsored by Contact, is free and open to the public.

A.
I CONTACT HOSTS SIERRA CLUB PRESIDENT
Adam Werbach, president of the Sierra Club, will speak in duPont Audito-
rium 4 p.m. Thursday.
~ As the 46th president of the largest grassroots organization in America,
’ Werbach, 24, is also the youngest president elected in Sierra Club’s I04-year
history. He heads the board of directors and leads the lobbying and conserva-
tion organization of more than 600,000 members across the country. Werbach
is currently leading the Sierra Club in campaigns to clean up America’s air and
it strengthen protection of our national forests.

DUO PERFORMS IN DUPONT

The Findell/Lugo Duo will perform a double bass recital on Tuesday at 8
,( p.m. in duPont Auditorium. Leanne Findell Lugo, currently on the music fac-
ulty at Washington and Lee, and Leland Lugo have been touring and perform-
ing their own special brand of chamber music together since 1994.
For two years, the duo performed in the Caribbean, Alaska and the Mexican
Riviera with Princess Cruises. This year, they will be traveling throughout
* Virginia performing recitals and promoting their new children’s book, Jeremy
and Grandpa ’s Magic Clock.

KNIGHT PROFESSOR GIVES LECTURE

X Louis W. Hodges, the John S. & James L. Knight Professor of Journalism
Ethics, will present a lecture next Monday titled “A Provincial Press in a Global
Setting.” The lecture will be given at 7:30 p.m. in Leybum Library’s Northen
Auditorium and is open to the public.

 SONOKLEC1“ SEASON ENDS WITH NASHAWATI

Violinist Bassam Nashawati, acclaimed as the “finest violinist in Syria, per-
haps the entire Arab speaking world,” will present the season’s ﬁnal concert
for Washington and Lee University’s Sonoklect series at 8 p.m. next Friday in

1 the Lenfest Center. Pianist David Riley from the Eastman School of Music will
accompany him.

The concert is open to the public and free of charge. A reception will follow
the performance where members of the audience can enjoy refreshments and

‘r meet the -performers.--4

MAYO ISLAND INVITES YOU TO JOIN US IN KICKING OFF OUR

1998 SEASON WITH...

6
I“

4

featuring

,A—

4

l’

noon - 7pm

,5

«A!

E
E
I
E
E

4%

ceﬂeﬁhaticut

TO BENEFIT FEED THE FUTURE

Southern Culture on the Skids

GOOD GUYS
SPIKE THE DOG

Sunday, May 3, 1998

$5 advance / $6 gates
available at plan 9 only

TICKETS AVAILABLE AT ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS
OR CHARGE BY PHONE AT 804-262-8100

Mayo Island is located off of the 14th Street Bridge in downtown
Richmond, Va. Limited parking is available on the island. Additional
parking is available in streets and lots through out Shockoe Slipl
Shockoe Bottom. A free shuttle to the island may be picked up at the
corner of 15th Street and Main Street in front of Sea Breeze Cafe.

« I1€WS

ALUMNI ARTISTS EXHIBIT IN DUPONT

Michael Kopald and Patrick Hinely, both Lexington residents as well as
members ofthe class of 1973, will present ajoint exhibit oftheir works,
Chinese brush paintings and photographs, respectively, in the university's
duPont Gallery from April 27 to May l4.

Their show overlaps W&L’s alumni weekend and the 25th reunion for
the Class of 1973. The opening reception will be held this Friday in the
gallery and the public is invited to attend.

PHI NOW PUBLISHES CLASSIFIEDS

Need a hot date? Need to find someone to shack up with next year? Need
to sell stuff? Then buy a classiﬁed ad in The Ring-tum Phi. Two dollars buys
ten words.

Drop off your ad in the Phi business ofﬁce on the 2nd ﬂoor of the univer-
sity center by 5 p.m. Thursday, and your message will be printed in the follow-
ing Monday’s edition. '

LEXINGTON RESIDENTS PUBLISH BOOK

Good-bye to Old Peking: The Wartime Letters of U. S. Marine Captain
John Seymour Letcher I 93 7-39, co-edited by Roger B. Jeans and Katie Letcher
Lyle, hasjust been published by Ohio University Press. Capt. Letcher was a
1924 graduate of the Virginia Military Institute and a member of Washington
and Lee University’s 1927 law class.

Lyle is the daughter of Capt. Letcher and was born in Peking. Jeans is the
Elizabeth Lewis Otey Professor of East Asian History at W&L. Together, they
have edited the letters which Capt. Letcher wrote to his mother in Virginia
between 1937 and 1939, during which time he commanded a company ofthe
U.S. Embassy Marine Guard in Peking.

W&L AWARDED TWO FULBRIGHTS
The Fulbright Scholarship Board recently awarded fellowships to

Hampden H. Smith and Christiana P. Callahan. Smith is a professor of ‘

journalism and chairman ofthejournalism and mass communications de-
partment. Callahan is a senior chemistry and German literature major from
Alexandria, Va.

Next academic year, Smith will be the Fulbright Scholar to the American
University in Blagoevgrad, Bulgaria. Callahan will study at the University of
Aachen in Aachen, Germany. During her 10-month visit she will perfonn bio-
chemical research on the genetic predisposition to develop allergies.

CONNORS WINS AWARD

Sophomore Michele K. Connors has been awarded a Barry M. Goldwater
Scholarship for the 1998-99 and 1999-2000 academic years.

Goldwater Scholars are selected on the basis of academic merit from a field
of more than 1,100 mathematics, science and engineering students nominated
by the faculties of colleges and universities nationwide.

ANNUAL LEE-JACKSON GAME THIS WEEKEND

The Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic will be held this Saturday on Wilson
Field at 2 p.m. W&L hopes to maintain its winning record in the annual game
against its neighbor.

STUDENTS SHOULD REGISTER THEIR DOGS

According to a recent article in The News-Gazette, the city animal war-
den is checking up on dog licenses. Pet owners found in violation of city
pet statutes will receive summonses. Unlicensed dogs found in the city
are subject to impoundment for up to five days.

Dog licenses can be obtained at City Hall with proof of rabies vac-
cination. -

 

JAMES EARL RAY DIED THURSDAY

Convicted assassin of Martin Luther King, Jr., James Earl Ray, died
Thursday of liver disease at 70. Ray’s brother is planning the open
funeral for three weeks away to assure that Ray's pastor is available. He
encourages King's family to attend.

GUNMAN KILLED IN MCDONALD’S

One of two gunmen who took about 15 people hostage at a New
Bedford, Mass. McDonald’s late Sunday was found dead after police
crept into the restaurant. Police don’t know ifthey shot the man or ifhe
committed suicide. None ofthe hostages was injured. The other suspect
fled in a car with one hostage and was at large.

JACKSON HAS EYE ON POLITICS

While he downplayed talk ofa presidential bid in 2000, the Rev. Jesse
Jackson nonetheless said the gap between rich and poor must be a defin-
ing issue during the next two election years at a meeting at Ohio Univer-
sity in Athens, Ohio. “More and more Americans are being left behind,”
he said. “That must be the essence ofthe debate in ’98 and 2000.”

Jackson’s two-day visit to this city of 2 1 ,000 about 60 miles southeast
of Columbus has been labeled as an attempt to gauge his appeal for a
possible presidential bid for 2000, but Jackson said it was too premature
to make that decision.

‘GRAMMY’ ARRESTED FOR SEXUAL ABUSE

After five years of house arrest and failed appeals, Boston residents
Raymond and Shirley Souza are preparing to spend the rest of their lives
in prison. The Souzas were convicted of raping two granddaughters, 3-
and 4-year-old girls who told of being forced to touch the private parts of
“Grammy” and “Papa.”

Experts found physical evidence consistent with sexual abuse, but
not conclusive proof of it. The Souzas are 66. If they end up behind bars,
they say they expect to die there.

GOVERNORS DISCUSS RACE ISSUES

On Thursday, 12 governors will get involved in President Clinton’s
dialogue on race by taking part in activities focused on racial issues,
such as panel discussions or town hall meetings, as part of a national
effort by the YWCA to focus on the elimination of racism in Washington.
Six others planned to issue proclamations urging a statewide focus on
racial issues. Hopefully, the discussion will trickle down to benefit local
communities.

DILBERT WINS AWARD ‘

“Dilbert” was named this year's top newspaper comic strip Saturday
night and creator Scott Adams won the Reuben Award—cartooning’s
highest honor—at the National Cartoonist Society's 58th annual Reuben
Award ceremony.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Annual Fund Staff Associate

The Ofﬁce of University Development has an
opening for an Annual Fund Staff Associate. This
position assists in the development and management
of strategies to increase involvement in the ﬁnancial
support of Washington and Lee through the Annual
I Fund which provides direct support to the

University’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a second year,
with preference given to recent W&L graduates

As this entry-level position depends on creative
communication to a varied constituency, the
successful candidate should posses excellent writing
and verbal skills. Also necessary are demonstrated
initiative, an ability to work within specific
deadlines, ability to prioritize and juggle multiple
tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student
workers and alumni volunteers, and a willingness to
assist other staff members as needed. Candidates
should also be prepared for evening and weekend
work and some travel. Familiarity with computers
and with public relations principles is a plus. A
bachelor’s degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter
of application to Robert W. Fox, Director of
Personnel Services, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

 

 

PAGE 6

ahitol Humor, ®pinion alndlieviews

Lost In Space crashes on the

blg screen

BY BRIAN Paisoo
H17MovIE Cxrnc

When I heard that Last in Space had knocked Titanic
out of number one in theaters across America, I was ec-
static. At last, I thought, something new, something excit-
ing, something without that God-forsaken Celine Dion song
in it.

Then I saw the movie.

Lost in Space is the updated remake of the 1950s space
voyage show of the same name. The multimillion dollar
budget was used to tune up the black and white of the old
show and the result is a movie with more bells and whistles

L as T", I N ::=ri>..c..I'a

 

The cast is star-studded and some of the stars burn a
little brighter than others. William Hurt is pretty boring as
Dr. Robinson, and Mimi Rogers (Maureen Robinson) is
just there. She isn’t bad, she isn’t good. Heather Graham
(Judy Robinson) is basically very attractive. Her sole pur-
pose for being in the movie is so that horny teenage boys

can stare at her and imagine what she
looked like in Boogie Nights naked.

than Kit from Knight Rider. It was
just lacking one small thing: a de-
veloped plot. C C
The movie follows the exploits
of the Robinson family as they jet- Matt LeBlanc
tison across the cosmos en route
to Jupiter. Dr. John Robinson (Wil-
liam Hurt), a brilliant scientist but a
shoddy father, is dragging his fam-
ily on a 20-year trek in a spaceship
piloted by Captain Don West (Matt

my belief that the Friends
cast cannot act. He has
one emotion: stupid.

She seemed inappropriate as the bril-
liant scientist.

Matt LeBlanc is absolutely abys-
mal as Captain West, and furthers my
beliefthat the Friends cast cannot act.
He has one emotion: stupid. He was
almost the downfall ofthe movie, but
they left that honor to Lacey Chabert
(Penny Robinson). I wanted to see

 furthers

LeBlanc). Trouble arises when a
saboteur, the villainous Dr. Smith
(Gary Oldman), sets the ship up for a self-destructive course
into the sun and the family is hurtled into the black void of
space and time.

This movie had a lot of potential to become interesting.
It had aliens, robots, space travel, intrigue, espionage, the
whole nine yards. The problem with Lost in Space is they
choose to do all of it, so there are more gaps in the plot
than Gaps in the Mall of America. I wanted to like this
movie, but they didn’t do anything with it. Elements kept
being introduced and then were never explained.

For instance, they discover this little alien that can
change color and looks like something out of a Dr. Seuss
book. What potential! Do you know what they end up
doing with the creature? Nothing! It just appears and you
see it bobbling around the background. That’s it. Crap like
that happens throughout the movie. They start to develop
these wonderful plot points and then forget about them.

The truth is out there: W&L
conspiracies finally revealed

BY KEVIN MCMANEMIN

9 9 her ﬁred out ofa porthole in the open-

ing credits ofthe movie. This was her
first film, and I hope movie audiences won’t be subjected
to her high-pitched Smurf whine in any more.

Then there’s poor Robbie the Robot. What they did to
Robbie is a crime. In the old show, he was this lightbulb—
headed machine that covered all the comic relief. In this
version, he looks like a cross between a Go-Bot and a Eu-
reka vacuum cleaner. He’s used as a cheap gimmick and it
pains the fans of the old show to see him.

Don't get me wrong, there were a few good things about
this movie. Gary Oldman was, as usual,just phenomenal.
The man cannot act poorly. And Jack Johnson (Will
Robinson) was absolutely terriﬁc. Expect good things from
him in the future. Also, the special effects were spectacu-
lar. Ijust hope that Hollywood will finally learn that special
effects don’t make great movies. Hollywood needs to get
its head out of its collective rectum and start finding some
better story lines before more of their plots get as “Lost”
as this one.

THEIOONEY BIN

They say that President Elrod and his jack-booted deans have wiped their
noses on the honor system, thrown up all over the SJC and decorum prevents me
from mentioning what they did to the IFC. They say these are all part of a wide—ranging
conspiracy to wrench control of W&L away from the students and put it completely in

They say that student autonomy at W&L is as dead as Sandra Bullock’s career.

the greedy little hands of the faculty.

Of course, like most rumors, they’re all true. Is it a mere coincidence that “faculty”
and “fascism” start with the same two letters? Well, probably. But that’s not the point.

The point is that there are a number of far-reaching conspiracies currently brewing in
the President’s ofﬁce. After several months of tough, intensive investigative joumalis-
tic work that would have made myjoumalism professors proud (despite the grades they
gave me last tenn, the bastards) I managed to uncover none of these conspiracies. So,
like any good journalist working on a deadline, I made some up.

I ) TH€ SATURDAY CONSPIRACY: Most students spend Saturday afternoons sleeping
and Saturday night drinking. Many even enjoy Saturdays. Clearly, this is not the kind of
environment we want to foster at W&L. So Saturdays will be replaced by another

Wednesday.

2) THC LIBRARY CXPANSION CONSPIRACY: Leybum Library is running out of space
to put books. The recent purchase of The Complete Stephen King set now takes up the
entire third floor and most of the fourth. So frat house basements, which were previously
wasted as dubious dens of dirty dancing and drunken debauchery, will be ﬁlled with

books.

3) THC ROBOT CONSPIRACY: By the year 2000, students will be replaced with hyper-
intelligent robots. Studies have shown that robots party less, work more and require
absolutely no food or sleep. This means that donns and the D-hall can be

turned into really bitchin’ faculty lounges.

4) THE: JFK ASSASINATION CONSPI : Oliver Stone only scratched
the surface. It was Castro, backed by Elrod, in league with the Mafia,
under orders from the CIA, funneling funds from the EC. Dean Manning
was the second shooter on the grassy knoll. (Well, why do you think he’s

ﬂeeing to England?)

5) THE: SORORITY HOUS€ CONSPIRACY : A closer look at the “Master
Plan” reveals: site for proposed sorority houses - Woods Creek. Site for

proposed sorority house showers - President Elrod’s office

6) TH€ €XPULSlON CONSPIRACY: Fraternities can now be kicked off

campus for any of the following infractions:

-consumption of beer, root beer, birch beer or any other liquid
-failure to pay Housing Corps kickbacks regularly and promptly

-house’s columns not polished a “sparkly white”
-excessively loud laughter

-fratemity president has more than five letters in his last name

-cattle prodding without a permit

last Wor

seven

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
Sports

SATURDAY

2 pm. Men's lacrosse: l.eealack-
son Lacrosse Classic. W&L vs. I/Ml
@ Wilson Field

V Parties
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

"L -SATURDAY

I Chi Psi - me Convertibles

Lambda Chi - me Standard
Phi i)elt- Mike Co!-ado, (afternoon)

1 Right 0!: (evening)

OQOOOOOQOOOOOOOOIO

Arts & Entertainment
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

I . TU ESDAY
8 pm. Concert: The Findell/Lugo
Duo, violin/viola double bass re-
cital @ duPont Auditorium A

' 4 sun.’ “G|acial~l.ake outburst

2:30 p.m; Symposium: thund-

. Room ,327,_Williauts ‘-

 

APRIL 27, 1998 V

  
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

A  

WEDNESDAY    Alumni Weekend
12p.m.SpanishTertulia: span-j, Evém-s_‘ 
   

15 Universityﬂace    I
oooooooooooooooooo§;‘;§‘39Pt"!?“9"?W’  I  5/
Lectures I  

oooooooooooooooooo   
I ’ — I ‘A  94'5"-‘if ”.“.‘~'?".l :§‘°“l°l.’."
MONDAY  Alumni 

Floods in the Mountﬁverest Re-f ,
giant of Nepal: Flow Processes.
Flow Hydraulics, and Geomor-xi; .
phic Effectiveness,” Daniel _.
Cendere|li.@RooInG-14,Science ‘

VVEEﬂNES[WxYWf;§¥
7:30 pm. Contact: ‘fAbolishitfg 
Affirmative Action." Award _:
connerIy;@ l.eeClta])el f: I  

THURSDAY -
4p.m.contac.~t::AcIam  ‘I,
president‘ of ,e‘$i,erra"
dul?ontAud_itorium 

-t

 

Qistinguisned Alumni Awards

   

tureotwoman aII¢I!iI°1\'19tifi>ll:
tics: “Male and 
He Themisonie iﬂetlections on ,.
Genesis 1-3,” ltonnajiurger @,

 

Lexington, Virginia

area.

H E LP
WANTED
Men and Women earn
$375 weekly processing/
assembling Medical I.D.
Cards at home. Immedi- ,
ate openings, your local 0
Experience unnec-
essary, will train.

Call Medicard 1-541-
386-5290 Ext. 118M.

0

O

O

O

Econo Lodge

  

Comfortable and aﬂordable, the Econo Lodge at Lexington is
conveniently located at the Intersection of I-64 and US Highway
1 1, putting you close to all the historical sights of this area.

Accommodations:

9 48 Attractive Guest Rooms with Scenic Mountain Views

0 ColorCable TV — Free ESPN and HBO
King Beds and/or Two Double Beds ——Non-Smoking Available
Free Continental Breakfast; Free Local Phone Calls
9 Restaurants within walking distance
Attractions:

Natural Bridge —— 16 miles

Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee University
VA Horse Center

Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

9192 IT gllévnﬁ"

.90 Pt: ‘(IN ripen; rte
501,0 NN we LLUY27.

Do you rmNI<- Yvvtlé
PI/NNY? ?vrYvv%9lF
oI\I THE LINE: 70% mole -
oI=t=eND Trleawvadr Bowl,
0FFél~|D THE FMVLW, Flt»/I’:
Foul. goes/IIT \/I>v?- owu

Tvem ‘am IN AT,
me tin DFFWE.

BJT’.

 
       
     
  
  

4

TIIERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT wE cAN ‘
 REALLY COUNT 0N TO HELP USACCOMPLISII ALLTIIAT , 1* '
 3 WE NEEDTO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE 
.. Tlll‘. TOYOTA coRoLI.A. ovER THE PAST so YEARS. ~ V
 coRoLLA IIAs BECOME oNE or THE Iiosr TRUSTED ,,
V§f’cARs IN IIIE woRLD. AND Now rrs Al.L-'NF.\V...WlTH '1 
:2; -' MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NI-‘.\V
 .ALllMlNUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
’ rrs MORE ECONOl~llCAL...UP T0 3s__ MILES PER 
GALLON IIIoIIwAY. coRoLLA Is SAFER AND ‘ ?
 QIIIEIER, AND IIEsroEALL. IrsrARrs
AT A PRICE LowER TIIAN LAST
YEAR. MORE cAR...LEss
MONEY. WHAT A
REFRESHING ?

  
 

CIIANGIZI

  

TOYOTA lg ox/orbldalj

 

 

-q,‘

ls

‘_

A

J.

1.

xx.

4!

LIJ
E
.4
05
3

 

CD Move over Rover!
New pets are crawling out of
the woodwork
CD Is the bookstore overpriced?

PAGE 3

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 21

(D The benefits of Online
Registration

(D A challenge to student
autonomy

 

PAGE 2

  ifttng -tum {ﬂirt 

(D
I-
M
O
D.
(0

Wet, but victorious at Wilson Field

Following a violent cloudburst, alumni and students stand soaked at the Lee-Jackson Classic. When the sun finally came out again, the men ’s
lacrosse team had shutdown the VMI Keydets 1 7-10. The victory marks the 10th time in a row that the Generals have won the annual game
between the neighboring institutions. HOLLISTER HOVEY/EXECUTIVE EDrroR

Class of

‘73

gives largest gift
in school history

BY HOLLISIER HOVEY
-—:——-—j-—F.xBw'nvE FDrroR

The class of 1973 presented the
university with the largest 25th re-
union gift in the history ofthe insti-
tution at the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association Saturday. The
gift ofover a million dollars will cre-
ate an honor scholarship in the name
of the class and support the annual
fund over a ﬁve-year period.

The fundraising process began
last June when John W. Folsom took

over the reigns of the Class of ’73-

Alumni Committee. By a follow-up
meeting in October, Folsom and
members ofthe class set the goal of
$1 million.

The class came to Alumni Week-
end on Thursday nearly $200 thou-

Pavilion

Three years ago, Alex Christensen
saw freshman (now junior) Torn
Wadlow smoking cigarettes and “act-
ing like a jer ” in the Lenfest’s produc-
tion of Butterﬂ ies are Free, and immedi-

    
  
  

sand short of their goal, but they
were able to exceed their planned
numbers by Saturday morning when
they presented the gift to President
John Elrod. Individual gifts ranged
from $25 to $125,000.

“It raises the bar for all 25th re-
union gifts,” Elrod said. “lt’s a mag-

niﬁcent gift from a wonderful class.-

We’re greatly indebted to the Class
of ’73...It’s a cause for celebration
all over the university.”

The Class of ’73 not only showed
financial support during Alumni
Weekend, but they also won the
Reunion Bowl for most attendance
with 96 registered alumni at the re-
union. The Class of ’58 also made a
large donation in the half-million
dollar range.

ately thought of Steve Buscemi in Res-
ervoir Dogs. At that special moment,
the aspiring producer/director started
thinking about doing a stage version of
the Quentin Tarantino ﬁlm at Washing-
ton and Lee.

This Friday and Saturday night at
7 p.m., Washington and Lee
University’s Student Pavilion will
serve as a hideout for the seven

professionals who
IR were supposed to

commit the perfect

 crime: freshman
i Kevin Dean as Mr.
Orange, senior Brugh

Foster as Mr. White, Wadlow as Mr.
Pink, junior John Floumoy as Mr.
Blonde, sophomore Greg Pleasants
as Nice Guy Eddie, freshman Phelps

goes to the dogs

Harmon as Joe, senior Dave Howard as
Holdaway, Christensen as Mr. Brown,
and freshman Ryan Truax as the unfor-
tunate policeman Marvin Nash.

After their simple robbery turns
into a bloody ambush, they rendez-
vous in a warehouse to ﬁgure out who
is the ‘rat.’

“There’s lots of swearing, violence
and blood,” Christensen said. “We’re
trying to bring theatre to the people.
The people who like lots of swearing,
violence and blood.” He wrote the script
for the play, adapting parts from
Tarantino’s first draﬁ, the published draft
and the movie. Props for the play in-
clude two cars, a straight razor, several
guns and many pints of stage blood.

— from staff reports

 

 

Both men’s and
women’s lacrosse
host first round
NCAA tournament
games

 

PAGE 4

Bulk Rale
US Postage

Monday
MAY 4, 1998

ix VMI cadets
convicted by
Honor Court

Hazing charges brought against mentors
of three freshmen lead to conflict
between honor and self-incrimination

BY PoLLY Doro

News EDITOR

Drums rolled early Saturday
morning as six Virginia Military In-
stitute cadets were escorted off cam-
pus, immediately following an Honor

4 Court conviction for lying.

Amidst charges of beating fresh-
men, seniors Donald Evans and
Phantamith Prompol of Alexandria, Va.,
and Jason Roderiques of North
Dartmouth, Mass. were expelled as a
result of lying about their involvement
in a “whack system.”

The seniors allegedly posted a list
of offenses such as receiving bad
grades or listening to country music
that would earn freshmen “whacks”
on the buttocks.

Freshmen Brandon Crane of
Evansville, Ind., Terence Redmond of
Hockessin, Del. and Arnold Gore of
Richmond, Va. were expelled for
falsely denying that the battering oc-
curred.

Much like neighboring institution
Washington and Lee University,
VMI’s Honor Code calls for a single
sanction for lying, cheating or steal-
ing—-—immediate expulsion from the
school.

The Honor Court is made up of
seven members, two faculty repre-
sentatives and ﬁve students. It is
completely run by cadets, accord-
ing to VMI spokesman Colonel
Michael Strickler, and a jury is se-
lected at random from the cadet
corps. Defendants are also allowed
to be represented by outside coun-
sel.

The Honor Court trial com-
menced Wednesday morning, with
defense lawyers attempting to sup-
press the original statements of the
cadets, claiming that they were co-
erced. According to the cadets, they
were dragged out of bed in the
middle of the night by student in-
vestigators.

The Honor Court returned with a
decision late Friday night following
two days of intense proceedings
and ﬁve hours of deliberations.

The verdict was followed a few
hours later by a “drum-out” cer-
emony, in which the guilty cadets
are led out as their names and crimes
are announced to the rest of the ca-
det corps.

Shortly thereafter, at 3 a.m. Sat-
urday morning, a ﬁre broke out in
an unoccupied basement room of the

VMI barracks.

The ﬁre was quickly noticed by
students studying nearby, but the
room was damaged and rendered in-
habitable. Strickler declined to say
whether the incident was related to
the convictions, or whether the
room was that of the three expelled
seniors.

The seniors claimed a conﬂict be-
tween the Fifth Amendmentfthe
right against self-incrimination, and
the VMI Honor Code, which explic-
itly forbids lying. The seniors were
told that they did not have to in-
criminate themselves, yet were
asked if they had beaten the fresh-
men. Thus, according to the cadets,
the choice was either lying or self-
incrimination.

Lawyers for the freshmen in-
volved stated that their clients were
under pr.essure to cover for the se-
niors, who were their mentors (or
“dykes”). VMI tradition mandates
that freshman be loyal to their se-
nior mentors.

“The Honor Code is held before
loyalty to oneself or to one’s fellow
cadets. It is held above all other sys-
tems,” Strickler said.

The trial was postponed from its
originally scheduled date of April 8,
so that the constitutional issues
raised by the cadets could be ad-
dressed. ,

All six cadets involved ﬁled mo-
tions with the 4th U.S. District Court
of Appeals to expedite their appeal
and delay the trial. The Appeals
Courtjudge questioned hisjurisdic-
tion in an Honor Court matter, and
the cadets’ motions were subse-
quently rejected by the Appeals
Court.

The three seniors involvedwould
have begun ﬁnal exams this week,
and subsequently graduated on
May 16.

Following the verdict, the cadets
plan to request a temporary restrain-
ing order Monday, which would
postpone the expulsions and make
it possible for the cadets to return
to campus in time to take their ﬁnal
exams.

The original Appeals Court judge
has been notiﬁed ofthis intent, and
has scheduled a hearing for 8:30 a.m.
Monday.

“Whatever the court, the law of
the land, decides, we will certainly
abide by it,” Strickler said.

What would
Mr. T say?

Phi Gamma
Delta freshman
Adam
Santosuosso
shaves Mike
C ri ttenden ’s
head while Tim
C orm ier stands
guard. Observ-
ing the annual
tradition, the Fiji
freshmen don
mohawks a week
before their
biggest party of
the year: the Fiji
Island Party.
PHOTO BY HOVEY

 

 
 

Op'nion
Ed rial

MAY 4, 1998

PAGE 2

Alumni Weekend:
Return to the good ol’ days

oes Alumni Weekend just pro

vide a short break from the daily

grind of being a corporate mo-
gul by inducing the nostalgia of a bet-
ter time when the priorities were drink-
ing, studying; fraternizing and wearing
the best khaki? Or is it just more of the
same in the life of a Washington & Lee
grad in corporate mogul form?

Maybe the alumni just strap on their
W&L insignia belts for this one special
weekend a year, but we doubt it. We
become a cult of preppy clones after
graduation. We behave the same, drink
the same, dress the same, speak the same
and move onto associate with people
just like the ones we met in college.

This is not necessarily a bad thing,
though. If anything, W&L teaches us
how to survive in the country club so-
ciety where we belong. The connections
propel us to the top of the corporate
world. The speaking tradition helps us
stay there by making us suck up to all
and appear to care about others. And the
“fashion” hasn’t changed since Bob
Dole was born, so there’s absolutely no
fear of being out of “prep-a-porter.”
Yup, we go to a charm school. There’s
just lots of extra homework.

It’s obvious that many of the alumni
deﬁnitely did their homework when it
came to binge drinking. You’d think
that some of the good ol’ boys would
have grown out of the Animal House
mentality, but old habits die hard. Years
of work, child rearing and middle-aged
maturity don’t put a wet blanket on
W&L alumni fun. Once they smell the
clear Lexington air, they’re taken back
to their 20s.

A W&L reunion is a great remedy for
a mid-life crisis. Despite the mortiﬁca-
tion that might ensue from a night of
alumni revelry, a reunion could actually
be very good for one’s mental health.

@112 ilting-tum iﬂhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Andrea Ewing
Sarah Meldrum

Executive Editors

Associate Editor
Copy Editor
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow
Stephanie Bianco

w&life Editors

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Photo Editor
Online Editor
Layout Assistant

Jill Jamieson
Brian Rogers
Steven Klotz

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring—tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060

Fax: (540)462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

http://wIu.edu/~phi

w;.L ENi>vwMEi~irVAvLTl

    

M,

 

Time to take action

against troublemakers

In the three weeks since the allegations of hazing against the Chi Psi and Kappa
Alpha fraternities first came to light, several pressing issues have remained unre-
solved. Many of the individuals with whom I have spoken are convinced that the
investigative andjudicial proceedings for both cases demonstrate an institutional
disregard for the rights of students, and many more are frustrated with the degree
to which our faculty and staff seem ex-
called to account for

empt from being .
apparent acts of im- The H111 propriety. Without
being overly dramatic, MCQOI-mack ’99 one might con-

clude that the com- munity of trust at
Washington and Lee University is be-
ing replaced by one of mutual suspicion between the administration and stu-
dents.

Granted, there has always been some level of tension between those on oppo-
site sides of The Hill. On one side are those who argue that the autocratic tenden-
cies of the administration have been apparent in every decision from Winter Rush
to the smoking ban. On the other end are those who view student organizations
such as the IFC as beyond contempt, as they continuously pass regulations with-
out the means or desire to see them enforced. While on some level this conflict
might be viewed as natural, there are two reasons why I believe that the current
situation merits immediate attention.

My first reason is the dissatisfaction in this instance is far more intense and
more widespread than anything '

6 C

I have seen in my three years
at W&L. As I acknowledged
above, there have always been -
some unhappy elements on cam_ We need to -devise a process
that will meet the
expectations of both faculty
and students alike.

pus—but when was the last time
one of our newspapers felt it nec-
essary to devote an entire issue
to a single story? I fear that,
should we as a community fail to
reach a more satisfactory conclu- , ’
sion to these events, the linger-

ing resentment will continue to weaken whatever remains of the once strong
faculty/student relationship.

The second reason I believe this situation warrants further action is the fact
that the student judiciary system seems to have broken down. In the case of KA,
an anonymous student submitted a complaint not to the IFC, SJC or even the EC,
but to the director of security. What sort of resolution might have been reached if
that student had trusted his peers enough to submit to their jurisdiction? How can
we expect the faculty to trust us to direct our own affairs if we lack the confi-
dence of one of our own?

I recommend a systemic overhaul of the current judicial process, in accor-
dance with the directive of the Board of Tmstees regarding the simpliﬁcation and
afﬁmiation of student self-govemance. We need to devise a process that will
meet the expectations of both faculty and students alike.

(6

A uote of the week:

The 50-year-olds didn’t act 50.
They were college guys trapped in balder, older, fatter

bodies; and they didn’t tip.
—Anonymous bartender at Alumni Drunkfest

77

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

(D Award

Has someone made your days at W&L a little bit happier?

The Ring-tum Phi would like professors and students to nominate seniors for
our annual Ring—tum Phi Award. The Ring-tum Phi Award honors a graduating
senior who hasn’t made the headlines but has contributed signiﬁcantly to Wash-
ington and Lee University.

Take a moment and write a paragraph about a special someone. E-mail it to
phi@w|u.edu.

  : When you were in college, did you expect to be where you are today?

2 , it 2

    

 

 

“No, I did not.”
—Jason Matthews, ’73

Foreign Service Ofﬁcer
for the State Dept.

“No”

-.'AM5.‘,  'j.‘\'gzj I
Vi/!"i3Hii\,‘: tr‘ §\}:?N{ 
" v o

      

l..EXlNG‘l QNV \,-‘A 3¢‘50

ti  ‘ea

—Corbet Bryant, ’68
Attorney

W&L jumps toward
Online Pre-registration

I have not heard many hopeful things said about online registration. In fact, I am not
sure that I have heard any. So I thought I would say some myself. I-Iere is my sales pitch for
online registration:

“Hey kids! Are you frustrated with class registration? Tired of camping out in clunky
old hallways so you can be there when the departmental secretary shows up? Sick of run-
ning all over campus, only to ﬁnd that the one course
you can take is the one you want the least?

Then try our new Online Registration! Yes, new
Online Registration—the super duper hassle-remover
guaranteed to get you out of line and into the class you

 Red Brick Row
i want!

,, 4 David Balsley 99
“Here is the secret to Online Registration success:

Online Registration uses a new, patented pre-registration process that allows students to tell
their professors which classes they want. That way, faculty can expand their course offer-
ings as needed before students register! Online Registration targets class shortages when
they are born, stopping them before they stop you! So try new Online Registration today.
Online Registration: We bring good things to life."

Okay, Online Registration will not make life so whiz-bang wonderful. Despite its
naysayers, however, the new system offers reason to hope that signing up for courses will
become easier.

   

The electronic pre-registration
associated with the new system wins
me over. I had been skeptical of
Online Registration, but the idea of
communicating to professors before
we sign up for classes which and
how many courses are needed,
makes so much sense that the whole
system seems worth it. 9 ’

The skeptic in me, however, wor-
ries that pre-registration may not have a signiﬁcant impact. First, it seems safe to assume
that, having been in business for 250 years, the faculty already knows which classes stu-
dents need and want.

If the professors have not met these needs and desires in the past, then it’s probably
because they lacked sufficient resources. In this case, pre-registration will not tell profes-
sors anything they do not know and it will not help them offer more courses.

Secondly, pre-registration may be no match for W&L students’ will to make things harder
then they need to be.

At the very least, though, electronic pre-registration can only make things better. How
much better remains to be seen, but it certainly cannot make registration worse.

I hope pre-registration will cut back on the ﬁghting associated with signing up for classes:
camping out, posting fake sign-up sheets, etc. We would not have to fight for courses if we
knew there were enough places.

Hey kids! Are you frustrated
with class registration?  Then try
new Online Registration.

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

A challenge for true student autonomy

Editor:
l’ve heard many students complaining recently about the erosion of student autonomy
at W&L and the rough treatment they and their peers have suffered at the hands of “The

Media.”
Don’t you just hate it when, simply because some of your buddies commit repeated

aggravated assault with a cattle prod or abduct a couple of women with intent to commit
sexual assault, “The Media” jump all over it and blow it out of proportion? And isn’t it
equally maddening when, just because the entire student judicial system ignores an ongoing
pattern of unlawful behavior, some troglodytes in the Administration trample all over stu-
dent autonomy?
Don’t despair. Here are a couple of handy household hints to help you get that stubborn
media tarnish off your reputation and restore that autonomous lustre:
Hint 1: Do not commit aggravated assault, on pledges or anybody, using a
cattle prod or anything else.
Hint 2: Do not abduct people, with sexual assault in mind or for any other reason.
These simple, economical, autonomous solutions can be carried out in less than a week-
end, using tools you probably have lying around your own brain. Try them; I guarantee
they’ll work.

Brian Richardson
Journalism Department

 
 
   
    
      
  
 

_c .99 VOYIN l‘lkTETll‘9

3 oapoprxikoe ewe?

8 You 1-mN\L you‘?-2

en wuuv? rvrvvvrtw‘
3.. 0N Tl-lé LINE: POP 0N0?"

fpgNp 11-re 6l'VV¢t~lT 99V‘l,
ZFFEND THE FMVLW, lrlf-/E
FVNI, evewin’ ‘/WV’ vww

The Ring-tum Phi
tr

W

U

"' R iTMlarl’\'

§ " Mrafﬁt-Ml’Na‘m

Q  'ﬁV\ lN I\’T‘
Tnefﬂw oFF‘w1'='.

 

 

 

 

“No, I did not expect to be where

I am now.” after college when I was in college.”
—Phil Cottell, ’68 —Susan Moseley, ’93
Professor at Miami of Ohio Graduate Student

-- A  /273k" _» — u:1-B-\-»‘«.4.2..~/ 
' \ j’.-,:‘_i.E-_»_.yr,):;,~.‘,.-

-r

T

T’

“I didn’t really think about things Y

Y

. ..t.......

 
  
 

 

‘-3 pack cost $0.96 at Wal-Mart.

’( MAY 4, 1998

AMONG THE EXOTlC and interesting animals offered for sale at Fur, Fins, and Feathers is the sugar glider. This
marsupial, which eats fruit and ﬁts snugly into the palm of your hand, can cost up to several hundred dollars. Still, for the
expense, you’re getting a lovable new best friend. For the less ﬁnancially sound or for those looking to buy something
a bit more mainstream, dogs, cats, ﬁsh and other animals are also available for purchase. Be wary of the W&L pet
policies, though; this little cutie could get you into big trouble. C()(/RTI-.'Sl’ or THI5RI:‘.S‘A Pl€()SSI:‘R

It's Travel Time!

[is spring, and that means it ’s time to relax, kick
bac, and travel to exotic and fun-ﬁlled locations. But
in our little corner of Virginia, there isn 't that much to
do close by (no, really? /). So here 's a guide to interest-
ing destinations just a few hours away from good old
Lex. This week, the end of the trail is at Busch Gardens
in Williamsburg, Va.

roller coaster.

Suddenly, you look down and realize that the ground is over 195 feet away. Your palms are sweaty and you
scream, but nothing can help you now as you plummet to the ground at 67 miles per hour. Just after you resign
yourself to the fact that the end is near, you realize that you are riding Alpengeist, the world’s tallest and fastest

Alpengeist and more than 35 other thrilling rides can be found at Busch Gardens in Williamsburg, VA. A trip
to Busch Gardens is the perfect opportunity for a weekend getaway with friends. While the suspenseful and
extremely popular Alpengeist is the major attraction this season, Busch Gardens has tons of other world re-
nowned rides like Drachen Fire and the Loch Ness Monster.

While Busch Gardens is only three hours away, you may feel like you have traveled all the way to Europe.
Besides the fabulous rides, the theme park also boasts a replica of a European community. You can travel through
picturesque Aquitaine, France and Hastings, England or eat delicious pasta in San Marco, Italy.

A single-day pass to Busch Gardens is $33, but ifyou have more time, a two—day pass is $43.95. Luck is on
your side, however, because all college students receive a $6 discount with their university identiﬁcation. The
directions are easy. Just takell-64S to I-2958 for about 150 miles until you reach 1-64E. Then go 36 miles to State‘
Rte. 143 and you are almost there. Whatever the price, the fun you will have at Busch Gardens will be worth every
dollar. So take a ride on the wild side — jump in the car and go to Busch Gardensll

Ir$"H.Ll.0\ .N\5i'1l.| ‘KC... VP-u.

&life

*Attention, Bookstore shoppers....
CD Where you buy your notebooks may affect your pocketbook

iv BY EUCA PRCBSER
BﬂFEA”lURl§ Forron
When it comes to buying supplies for the term, Wash-
ington and Lee University students might ﬁnd themselves
in a dilemma.
‘ll Where do smart shoppers go to ﬁnd the deals? Clearly,

stores like Wal-Mart have lower prices on necessities like '

notebooks and pens, but just how much lower? Is it worth
staying on campus and shopping at the University Book-
q, store for these much-needed items? We compared the prices
of several school supplies from both the
Bookstore and Wal—Mart, and the results
might surprise you.
An average 70-page single-subject
:4 notebook with one pocket is $2.67 at Wal-
Mart and $2.95 at the Bookstore, but the
discrepancy increased when the note-
book style changed. A recycled single-
subject notebook is $2.10 at the Book-
3‘ store, but it’s only $0.97 at Wal-Mart.
That makes a difference of$l .13, and the
list has onlyjust begun.
A four-ounce bottle of Elmer’s Glue”
,1 is $1.69 at the Bookstore and $0.78 at Wal-
Mart. You don’t use Elmer’s Glue“ anymore, you say?
You probably still use pens, right? The Bookstore sells
most pens and pencils individually at a cost of at least
$0.50 each; the same Bic® pens in a 10-

09.0167

CARD TYPE. XX
AUTH NO: 012345

SALE

I
SlGNATURE

DATE BMBBBBOO1 TIME

WAL*MART

CARD A120 0 UT: 99786432 124% ‘l 35

Don’t get the wrong idea; some things don’t vary
that much in price. A bottle of Wite-Out“ costs $1.89 at
the Bookstore and $1.28 at Wal-Mart. A box of staples is
$1.30 at the Bookstore and $1.24 at Wal-Mart.

Paper clips were actually more expensive at Wal-
Mart than on campus, with a 55-count box costing $0.82
at the SuperCenter and a 100-count box costing $1.25
at W&L. To put it in more comparable terms, that’s about
1.5 cents per clip at Wal-Mart and 1.25 cents per clip at
the Bookstore. .

Now let’s go shopping. Suppose we
buy two notebooks (one recycled), ten
pens, a roll of tape, glue, 24 pencils, a
l00—sheet legal pad, Crayola® markers,
Crayola® pencils and Wite—OutTM. In-
cluding the 4.5% Virginia sales tax, the
bill at the Bookstore comes to about
$30.22, while the same items at Wal-Mart
come to about $ 16.36. The Wal-Mart bill
isjust a little more than halfthe Book-
store bill. How can this be? The main
reason is that Wal-Mart is big enough
to buy in bulk at a lower cost, while the
Bookstore is simply too small to do
that.Before you start abandoning the campus supply out-
let, though, consider the other factors involved.

For one thing, a trip to Wal-Mart involves more costs
than just money. Gas for the car, time

r\/vv‘

10:23 AM

EXP DATE: 1‘|/97
REF NO‘ 043.1132

$14.30

Pencils cost at least $0.20 each at °9’°"97

the Bookstore, while a 24-pack of the
same pencils at Wal-Mart costs $1.37.
‘ Do you use tape? Well, a 300-inch roll of
Scotch® tape costs $1.25 at the Book-
store, while a 450-inch roll (the smallest
one available) costs only $0.72 at Wal-
Mart. And for all you lawyer types, a 50-
Csheet legal pad is $1.15 at the Bookstore.

A 100-sheet pad is $1.97 at Wal-Mart.
Even art supplies vary drastically. An

CARD TYPE: XX
AUTH NO: 012346

SALE

X
SIGNATURE

DATE %8888888D01 T I ME

Wi»\SHl_\IGTON,«.NnLEE
UNIVERSITY

University Bookstore

CARD ACCOUT: %T6543212468‘136

$ 23.45

spent getting out there and back (espe-
cially if you must park in the freshman
lot) and the crowds you will deﬁnitely
ﬁnd at the SuperCenter are all marks
against shopping big.

The Bookstore, by contrast, is
closer, and purchases can be charged
home. Quality is about the same between
spots, and while the selection is better
at Wal-Mart, you might ﬁnd yourself
buying more than you need because it’s
all so cheap.

10:23 AM

EXP DATE: 11/87
REF NE): 013-1132

eight-pack of Crayola® classic markers costs
$2.97 at Wal-Mart; the same markers are a whopping $4.10 on
campus. A 12-pack of Crayola® colored pencils is $2.84 at
the Bookstore, but that price drops to $1.97 at Wal-Mart.

In the end, you must weigh the fac-
tors yourself. Don’t forget, though: the most important
item on your list cannot be bought at Wal-Mart. Blue books
are available only in the Bookstore.

Place a classified
ad in the Phi! it’s
only 2 bucks for 10
words. Drop your
ad off on the
second floor of the
University Center.

Do you like to write? ,

‘ Do you want to see your name in lights (or bylines)?
Then write for the Phi features section!

Call Erica at 464-1806 (e-mail: eprosser@ w/u.edu) or
Ginger at X441 1 (e—mail: phi//ipsg@ wlu. edu).

HEY, YOU!

PAGE 3

Where the WILD things are

CD Campus pets aren’t just dogs anymore; in fact, they’re scarier

BY CHRISTINA JULIAN
Hr STAFF Warm:

t has been said that a dog is a man’s best friend, but
what about all those other animals?

For some Washington and Lee students, unusual pets
provide similar companionship and offer more excitement
than the average canine. Some interesting specimens even
turn up in the freshman dorms, where pets are forbidden.

One freshman said that his turtle, Beta, has been a
great pet. Turtles require little care and, according to
Beta’s owner, just have to be fed. It might seem strange
to have a turtle, but this student has a blast with his
reptilian pal.

‘‘[It’s fun] watching Beta run around,” he said.

Watching the unique movements of pets seems to be
a common feature among owners. Another freshman owns
a tarantula, and he is fascinated when the.spider hunts for
food. The tarantula, which has yet to be named, feeds on
large crickets and stalks to capture
his meal.

The owner wanted a tarantula 
because he is a biology m'ajor and is
interested in watching it grow. His
furry friend was ordered from the
Carolina Biological Supply Company
and is only about three weeks old.

One W&L junior had hermit
crabs when he was a freshman. The
shelled critters were not cuddly, but
they were entertaining, he said. That
is, until he left the window open dur-
ing the winter.

“The crabs were in their cage right
in front of the window,” he said. “It got cold that night.
When I woke up, they both justfell out of their shells. I
guess they couldn’t handle the
temperature.” His pets were
dead, but he  was eager to get
more.

“They were
“There was always
they would pinch
were still pretty cool.”

Several fresh- men experience unwanted
pets their ﬁrst year in the dorms. Various insects, mostly
cockroaches, make themselves at home in the freshmen
rooms, to the disgust of the students. Roaches crawl down
the walls, ﬂutter across computer keyboards and inﬁltrate
packages of cookies by the end of the year.

_‘‘It is gross,” one girl said. “The roaches are so big that

fun,” he said.
the chance that
you, but they

l}i?‘:75B§7tiami Gom

3 g 3 [Rating system: 0= terrible; 1= poor, ‘

l,:‘.,i:;’RaIiimstein “Sehnsucht”
j,-‘mm,ors - r W

I ‘It is very strange just how good the.Ger1rian ign-
 ,_ rguage sounds over techno—metal. 
 it from industrial leader KMFDM, who employs ‘esatn
' , technique, Rammstein screams in a deep v
 German phrases likeamilitary oﬁicer.‘ ‘

‘ Ainerican market has taken a liking to th  in
 ‘.‘Du haste,-” making it the #1 most reque ‘
4 ‘ Rammstein says,as only he cangin the song

. _ .,f0.“you have me” and “you hate me.” Im,‘ 

'  ; , ing neglected is reflected in other songson ,
ilovepcan play. 2 » A s
5 _. Nothing quite like intense music with a 

the Shocker “Charge it 
‘¢hk1/2of5 , 4 .

and the values ofbeing part ofthe“No LimitFamily”
on his first album. , ’ ‘ 5

does not back up their machismo sound.

the club  rappers saved by record company execs.

We carry unusual
pets like snakes,
African hedgehogs
and sugar gliders...

Fur, Fins, and Feathers

Silkk the Shocker, Master P’s newest protégé,itoots his 0”

P’s beats do well with Silkk’s choppy  loud style.Y''Ilie ’ K ,
lem is that the appearance of Silkk and his main back-up'Mystikal

Silkk’s rhymes also come off as being unoriginal. “Pd still be
sellin’ drugs if I wasn’t wit No Limit,” says Silkk in“No,Lit_nit Soldier.” 7
Yes, you’re supposed to rap what you know, but c’mon Silkk ——-ljoinf «

Master P has a Southern rap style that takes getting used to ‘G
can eventually grow on you -—- if you can get past the lyrics. '

it doesn’t look like you can
kill them with just a shoe.”

Luckily, Buildings
and Grounds personnel can
drop piles of white powder in
the corners of each room and scare the bugs
away. These “pets” are unwelcome squatters, but other
animals are very welcome by the students.

Although many W&L students have pets, the Uni-
versity prohibits pets of any kind in the dormitories or
residence halls. Bonnie Walker, secretary to Dean of Fresh-
man Dennis Manning, handles housing arrangements at
W&L. She said that pets are not allowed because of the
problems they could represent.

“The policies regarding pets are printed in the hous-
ing contracts that the students sign,” she said.

Fraternities houses are also prohibited from having
pets because they are owned by the university.

Mike Young, Director of Security, said that the prob-
lems pets create can be damaging to
W&L students and property.

“Pets can bring fleas and can
soil the rugs or chew furniture,” he
said. Bill Messerle, a residence as-
sistant in Gaines last year, busted a
sophomore who kept gerbils in her
suite because he said that pet hair
can linger and cause allergic reac-
tions in other students.

Such reasoning does not seem to
apply to animals without fur or teeth,
though, and contraband pets are
steadily becoming companions to dor-
mitory residents.

Despite the no-pet policy in the dorms, pets are al-
lowed in academic buildings, and many professors and
students bring four-legged friends to class.

If you suddenly have a craving for something to
love, dogs and other not—so—ordinary pets can be pur-
chased at the Fur, Fins, and Feathers pet shop on South
Randolph Street. The most common pets sold there are
ﬁsh and ferrets, but employee Anne Reid said that un-
common animals are also popular.

“We carry unusual pets like snakes, African hedge-
hogs and sugar gliders, which look like a cross between
a ﬂying squirrel and a monkey,” she said.

What sort of pet should you rush out and buy
now? Reid recommended hamsters and gerbils, which
are small and easy to care for, as great college pets. But
ifyou live in the dorms, think twice: your pet could get
you in trouble.

- Anne Reid —

77

.  Qtinveniently translates both
is sentiment of longing an
hes fora piano on which his

as -—-heis credited with
Rooster” and “Heaven

, _ strange experimenta 

§{[l__ZllI‘(~)§/75' g‘ orns in on “Cut You In”, and ‘
if " It fit forahotel lobby. ¢ 
stliat Cantrell, one of the
“:1 show off his skills

 

PAGE 4

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
W?’ SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals fell behind early but
used a ten-goal run to down VMI 17-
10 in the eleventh annual Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic on Saturday after-
noon at Wilson Field. An estimated
crowd of 4,200 watched the Generals
down the Keydets and claim the city
championship for the tenth straight
year.

The Keydets (4-10) took an early 3-1
lead and used back-to-back goals at the
end of the first quarter to make it 6-3.
Steve Schwanke’s goal with 1 1:24 left in
the second quarter gave the Keydets a
7-4 lead, and it looked as though the
Generals ten-year streak might be in jeop-
ardy. But the Generals (12-2, 5-1 ODAC)
heard the wake-up call and held the
Keydets scoreless for over 18 minutes
to take a commanding 14-7 lead midway
through the third quarter.

“They came out fired up,”said se-
nior captain Paul Stanley. “We knew
they were good and that they wanted
this game; this was their champion-
ship game.”

“They came out ready to play and
it took us a while to get going,” said
freshman midﬁelder Pope Hackney.
“1t’s such a big rivalry and with so
many people in the stands; it’s a really
fun game to play in. A lot of us know
players on the other team too, so that
makes it all the more intense.

Things got ugly late in the game,
once the Generals had the victory in
hand and VMI began to feel the frus-
tration of losing to the Generals for
the tenth straight season. Fights
nearly broke out on several occasions
but cooler heads prevailed.

“We took some cheap shots from
them in the third and fourth quarters,”
said Hackney, but we’re proud we kept
our composure and didn’t retaliate.”

Freshman attackman Matt Dugan
had four goals and one assist for the
Generals and was named W&L’s re-
cipient of the Worell-Fallon Award as
the team’s most outstanding player.
Junior attackman Mayson Ayers was
VMI’s recipient of the Worell-Fallon
Award as he led the Keydets with three
goals and three assists. Mayson’s
older brother Charles won the award
last year for VMI after he set a Lee-
Jackson record with 28 saves.

Sophomore attackman Colin
Dougherty reached a milestone for the
Generals, scoring three goals and add-
ing two assists to go over the 100-
point mark for his career.

Colin Dougherty set a record by
reaching the 100-point plateau in only
28 games, faster than any other player
in school history. Don Caroll, the Gen-
erals’ all-time leading scorer, reached

100 career points in his 31st game.

Hackney and seniors Tom Fallace
and Ed Dougherty each had two goals
for the Generals and Stanley had one
goal and three assists. Matt Gallienne,
Tony Seraceni and Andrew Rogers
each had two goals for VMI.

NEED
CASH?

The Ring-tum Phi needs help
selling ads. You’ll earn
commission on each ad you
sell. Leave a message at
462-4060 or e-mail
j_jamieso@wlu.edu.

HELP
WANTED

Men and women earn
$375 weekly process-
ing/assembling Medi-
cal l.D. Cards at
home. Immediate
openings, your local
area. Experience un-
necessary, will train.

Call Medicard,
1-541-386-5290
Ext. 1 18M.

SENIOR ED DOUGHERTY
and freshman Pope Hackney
celebrate after winning the

eleventh annual Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic. HOLLISTER
HOVEY/EXECUTIVE EDITOR

BY JASON ZAcHI~3z

Men’s, women’s
lax get NCAA bid

SENIOR Fnrrorz

Sunday was a banner day for the
Washington and Lee lacrosse program.
Both the men’s and women’s teams re-
ceived bids for the NCAA Division III
tournament and will play at home on
Wednesday.

The men host Denison College at 1
p.m. on Wilson Field. For the Generals
(12-2, 5-1 ODAC), it will be their fourth
Division III tournament appearance.
W&L also received seven Division I
tournament bids in the 1970 ‘s.

The Generals are 1-4 lifetime against
the Big Red The last match-up between
the two teams was in 1996 when W&L
lost 10-9 in overtime. Denison (7-5) is
0-5 against tournament teams this year.

“We don’t know too much about
them,” sophomore Colin Dougherty

said. “We lost to them the last two times,
but we’re looking forward to beating
them.”

If the Generals get by Denison, they
will play No. 1 Ohio Wesleyan Satur-
day at Wilson Field. Ohio Wesleyan
cannot host NCAA tournament games
because of NCAA probation.

Thewomen’s lacrosseteam (13-2, 10-
0 ODAC) drew a home game against St.
Mary’s (Md.) (12-2, 2-2 CAC). The
women are making their first trip since
1993, and play Wednesday at 4 p.m. on
the Liberty Hall Fields.

St. Mary’s beat the Generals 13-1 on
April 13. The Generals were held score-
less for the ﬁrst 48 minutes of the game.
Senior captain Whitney Parker was in-
jured during the previous game with a
torn hamstring.

“We’re really looking forward to

*~(_

MAY 4, 1998

MEN’S DIVISION III LACROSSE PAIRINGS WoMEN’s DIVISION III LACROSSE PAIRINGS )‘
First Round Quarterfinals First Round Quarterfinals
Wed., May 6 Sat., May 9 Wed., May 6 Sat., May 9
Semifinals Finals Semiﬁnals Finals ’
Sat., May 16 Sun., May 24 Sat., May 16 Sun., May 17
(1) Ohio Wesleyan (13-1) College of NJ (12-0)
Denison g7-5; W&L 113-2) _.__j I’
W&L(12-2) St. Mary’s (12-2)
(4) Nazareth (1 1-2) Middlebury (13-2) >
Middlebury (10-3) Denison (9-8)
Ithaca“ 1-22 Johns Hopkins (13-2)
)‘
(3) Hampden-Sydney (12-1) Williams (1 1-1)
Washington College (10-4) Ithaca 9_5 “
 L—j- Trim 1 1-2
Salisbury State (13-1) William Smith (1 1-1)
Cortland 19-5 2 Haffwick £ 14-22 -————-— V
Gettysburg (10-4) Franklin & Marshall (12-4)

playing them,” Parker said.

“Sweet! There is a God,” coach Jan
Hathom exclaimed. “We can get that
game back. The last time we played, a
lot of things went wrong —— everyone

was at fault.”

If the women exact their revenge
against St. Mary’s, they will travel to
No. 1 College of New Jersey on Satur-
day. The Generals played the College
of N.J . last year, and only lost 8-6.

Unlike other W&L home games,

tickets will be sold for the games. Tick- ‘U
ets prices are $3 for adults, $1 for chil-
dren, and will be on sale at the athletic
offices and various other locations
around campus. Admission charges are I.

PREGNANT...
AND FEELING
ALONE?
WANT SOME
CHOICES TO
CONSIDER?

F

Lexington, Virginia "

mandated by the NCAA.

ono
Lodge .

Comfortable and affordable, the Econo Lodge at
Lexington is conveniently located at the lntersec- 2‘
tion of I-64 and US Highway 11, putting you close

to all the historical sights of this area.

. . ‘ . . D
The Nurturing Network is dedicated to helping any Accommodations:
woman with an unwanted pregnancy give life to her ~ 48 Attractive Guest Rooms with Scenic Mountain Views
unborn child. We have specialized resources to meet 0 ColorCab|eTV— Free ESPN and HBO . . *
the practical needs of working and college women  o Klng Beds and/orTwo Double Beds—Non—SmokIng AValIabIe
Offer/"79 3 real 3/t9m3t"V9  0'79 Which F9009”/‘Z93 0 Free Continental Breakfast; Free Local Phone Calls
your unique values, needs, and circumstances. . . Restauramswithin walking distance
A phone call to 1-800-TNN-4MOM can help you Attractions: I‘
_ give V99’ cmld a future 0 Natural Bridge— 16 miles
wlthout gwmg up on your own‘ 0 Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee University W
The 0 VA Horse Center '
Nurturin ‘ll
Network 0 Stonewa|lJackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

 

     

CD G&L names new president a
_l CD Considered Bhuddisrn lately?
Neither has anyone else on

 

cl) Give us a little credit! We
don’t do extracurricular ac-
tivities for nothing...

SPORTS

 

Women’s lacrosse a
great season, despite
an NCAA first round

loss to St. Marys

 

First chainsaws roared, and then
rain turned the lawn into mud. Over
the last two weeks people have won-
dered: what is going on behind Lee
House? The answer is quite simple:

“Not much,” said President John
Elrod. The Elrods have decided to
landscape the area. The pine trees
surrounding the lot have been cut
down, and the lawn has been bull-

scaped,” said Elrod. “We are putting
in additional lawn space.” Flowering
shrubs and perennials will surround
the new lawn area to create a more aes-
thetically pleasing backyard.

If the Board of Trustrees approves,
the brick wall will extend all the way to
the sidewalk.

“It will look nice when it’s fin-
ished,” said Elrod. “Buildings and

will get to it when they can.”

The additional lawn space will be
used for receptions, teas and cocktail
parties.

In other related news, construction
was recently begun behind the Pavil-
ion for the new baseball ﬁeld. Frank
Parsons, Coordinator of Facilities Plan-
ning, said that the ﬁeld sh,ould¢be ready
for the upcoming basebzilli, ,:  .

 

/l

yard is nothing
more than a
landscape job-
in-progress.
MIKE CRﬂ7EVDEN/
PHI PHOTO STAFF

campus. .. CD Save the Night Owl! 0011383-
W PAGE2 PAGE4
I
‘l
c 9' av 0 :;':.':.::.
PAID
‘(
  ‘  -  t 
A Washington and Lee University M°"day
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 22 MAY 11’ 1998
 Ml sexual  
I I
~ incident leads
I
 to expulsion
,, (1) Senior cadet and female exchange
student suffer consequences of liason
BY POLLY DOIG involvement in a “whack system.”
, , NW5 EDITOR Freshmen Brandon Crane, Terence
I Just days before graduation, Vir- Redmond, and Arnold Gore were also
ginia Military Institute expelled a se- expelled for denying that they had
nior following a sexual incident with a been beaten by the seniors.
female exchange student from Nor- All six former cadets willbepennit-
,4 wich University in Vermont. The pair ted to complete their coursework, pro-
were discovered having sexual rela- vided that it is done at an off-campus
tions in VMI’s barracks. location.
The female involved was also a se- Final exams began Monday at VMI,
nior. She was one of several women and the cadets were in District Court

"7 invited to VMI from other institutions before Judge James Turk, seeking a

in order to help ease the transition to restraining order to stop their expul-

co-education. VMI returned the ex- sions.
change student to her home institu- The ex-cadets maintain that their
‘ tion of Norwich University, in confessions were coerced, as they
Northﬁeld, Vt. were not notiﬁed of their right to re-
VMI’s policy on sexual relations is main silent by the student Ofﬁcer of
not ﬂexible, according to Superinten- the Guard Association who interro-
dent Josiah Bunting III. Sexual rela- gated them. They contend that they

«ll tions within the corps are strictly pro- were dragged out of bed in the middle

hibited by VMI, and speciﬁcally will of the night by the OGA to face inter-

not be tolerated in the barracks. rogation.
According to an anonymous VMI Judge Turk called the interrogation
_ junior, the senior’s punishment was tactics of the OGA “Gestapo meth-
i. extremely harsh, especially coming so ods,” and urged the cadets to work
. . close to graduation, but not unwar- out some sort of compromise with
N  p 3  p I 3  In  n g  n . . . ranted. “It’s too bad that this happened VMI so that they can take their exams.
at this point,” he said. “But his actions In this manner they can complete their
The Volcano finally received its liquor license and is open for business. It will be the only dance club in the metro Lex area. Come dance the night were extremely stupid}: work while waiting for a ruling in their
5’ away 8:30 — I a.m. Tuesday through Saturday, or just come eat until I 0 p. m. Tuesday — Sunday. MIKE CRIYTENDEN/PHI PHoro STAFF This was the third such incident case, which will not likely occur until

i that has occurred at VMI this year. In this fall.
October, two rats caught kissing in a In response to Turk’s comments on
S I I dark room were conﬁned to barracks OGA methods, VMI Spokesman Col.
,1 e n I O  E m p I    e e k g  d S for several weeks. In March, a disci- Michael Strickler said, “I have com-
I plinary committee recommended that plete faith in the cadets who work with
two cadets, who were charged with the Ofﬁcer of the Guard Association
BY ESZIER PADO6 Michigan State University, promises economy. Technological savvy also I think it’s been a very good year for visiting each other’s rooms various and the Honor Court, and that their
STAFF WRFFFR this year’s seniors a bright ﬁiture, with makes today’s graduates attractive. A everyone.” times at night, be suspended for two actions were honorable.”

V For Washington and Lee students an abundance of jobs available for So how does the future look for Edouard de Galbert’s experiences semesters. However, in this instance The ex-cadets prospects for receiv-
insecure about post-college life, rest fresh, compentent minds. Life looks Washington and Lee seniors? have been slightly different. De VMI instead followed through with a ingaVMI diploma remain highly im-
assured that 1998 is a ﬁne year to be especially good for future physicists, Senior biology major Kathleen Galbert admits that this is mainly due “severe penalty,” which included sev- probable, according to VMI Superin-
graduating. with a 14.8 percent salary increase this Dusse said that her experience shows to his preference to work abroad. eral months of conﬁnement. tendent Josiah Bunting in a written

V According to a survey on job op- year. The lowest increase in yearly that there have beenalot of jobs avail- “It’s really hard to look for a job In the latest incident, the conse- statement released early this week.
portunities for college graduates, this salaries concerns the Telecommunica- able. abroad from Lexington,” de Galbert quence for breaking the rules was ex- “Under no circumstances... could the
year’s job market offers a 27.5 percent tions professions, with a meager 0.5 “It seems to me that most compa- said. “There are a limited number‘ of pulsion. While this might seem severe, administration of VMI ever consent to
increase in job openings for 1998 col- percent increase. nies haven’t ﬁlled their positions yet,” alumni working abroad.” VMI Spokesman Colonel Michael the award of a VMI diploma to a cadet
lege graduates, and a four to ﬁve per- Patrick Scheetz, author of the Dusse said, “So it has been very easy He has sent a number of letters to Strickler said that, “every case has to found guilty of an honor violation by

4 cent increase in starting salaries—the Michigan State study, attributes wide- to get offers.” alumni, and has received one answer be looked at differently and punish- the cadet Honor Court.” Strickler also
biggest in 10 years. spread job availability and increasing She got an offer from Andersen so far. De Galbert hopes to relocate to merit given accordingly.” said that the only way that the ruling

The survey, conducted annually by offers to the country’ s booming Consulting in Washington, D.C., which Egypt <1)]r Ailrgentina fllallﬁwing gt:adua- Former Cadets may cleuld be i;vert:rr1fe\cl would be through
she acce ted, after 'ust one interview. tion, w et er or not e as a '0 Wait- , t e VMI oar o isitors.
Chrislbpher Forjrest, an economics ing for him. J ﬁnish classes An anonymous VMI source agreed
T   Chemical Engineering $44_ 557 and music major, had similar good for- “I’m just going to get a plane ticket, A District Court judge has ruled with the VMl’s stance. “They were
Electrical Engineering $41,157 tune. He received several offers in the go there and look around,” he said. that six former VMI cadets will be al- found guilty, and just because they
 |\] G Mechanical Engineering $39,357 finance industry, and chose to work at For those seniors who don’t have lowed to take their final exams. brought in fancy lawyers doesn’t mean
Computer Science $33,741 NationsBank. jobs yet, look out for recruiters, or con- The cadets, three of whom are se- that the decision of the Honor Court
p ' 36,692 “I think that it is easier now to find sider graduate school. The Michigan niors, were found guilty of lyin last should be overtumed.”
F   Lggissiifizs Management €35‘-190 a job than it has been in previous State survey found that top graduates Friday in ahazing-related incidenf, and Defense attomey Bernhardt Ruble,
F0 1 Chemistry $35227 years,” Forrest said. “My personal ex- of law schools and MBA’s in invest- were escorted off campus in a “drum- a Washington D.C.-based lawyer, said
R  Civil Engineering $34,335 periences have been very good.” ment banking or consulting are receiv- ming out” ceremony early Saturday in court that one of the freshmen is
Mathematics $33,180 Economics major Justin Riedell has ing offers as high as $100,000 out of morning. already tiring of the ﬁght, and may
‘ Financial Administration $32,430 been at peace for several months; he grad School. Seniors Donald Evans, Phantamith drop the suit. Freshman Albert Gore
Nursing $31,802 accepted an investment banking job — Senior Editor Liz Detter con- Prompol and Jason Roderiques were was the only defendant not present in
Geology $31,273 with J. P. Morgan and Co. in Decem- tributed to this article. expelled last week for lying about their court Monday.
Accounting $31,209 ber. Although he spent a good por-
l, Business Administration $30,373 tion of his Fall term Searching for 3
Advertising $25,485 position, his quest has been success- at 8
Journalism $24,588 ﬁll.
Liberal Arts $24,578 “It happened pretty quickly,” mess. . ..
Source: Michigan State Telecommunications $22,563 Riedell Said “I feel thatthejob market
. University 1998 study is very good this year. It’s been a very No, they aren ’t
good year for investment banking, but trying to
I relocate the
remains of
Lee H o u se lawn g ets face I ift 

“ The catastrophe
BY HEATHER MCDONALD dozed in order to landscape the yard. Grounds is doing it all. They are ex- that is now
——?-—‘—'—'— STAFF WRFFFR “The back area has never been land- tremely busy this time of year, and they President Elrod ‘s

 

PAGE 2 MAY 11, 1998

We take credit or cash

Why do we wittle our lives away carv-
ing out your news? We spend more time
in the Phi ofﬁce than we do in class. We
don’t get much out of it — maybe some
journalism experience, sleep deprivation
and a helluva lot of criticism.

The Executive Committee and other
student judiciary bodies spend their hours
outside of class helping people choose to
drop out of school, and all they get are
complaints of a lack in student autonomy.

Varsity athletes are in the same boat.
They work hours upon hours every day
only to. probably go unnoticed (and for
most sports outside of LAX, unmentioned
in the press). They probably aren’t headed
to the NBA or the Santa Monica Track
Club, but they still work like crazy. All
they really get for it is a nice set of abs
and two-ﬁfths of a gym credit.

Aren’t all of us worth more?

Why can’t we get more credit for what
we do —— class credit perhaps? If anyone
is going to sacriﬁce the time that we do
for anything, they deserve some reward.

Varsity athletes should at least be able
to fulﬁll their P.E. requirement. You can’t
tell us that (outside Lars Tiffany’s aero-
bic running class) their daily workouts
aren’t more rigorous than a full semester
of badminton. Most of the teams don’t
even get a crowd — they should at least
get something on their transcript.

College newspaper staffs at public uni-
versities, like  _actually get paid
oodles of money to do this jobywe do for
“fun.” This is where our plea really be-
gins. We’d love some class credit for sac-
riﬁcing our weekends, but we’d really

love money. Lots of money!
Outside of marrying well, the chances

of us living above the poverty line post-
graduation are slim, so it would be great
if the university could tease us with a little
cash while our incomes are slightly ex-
pendable. You wonder why there’ s so much
bad press? It’s because no one is paying us
to say otherwise! We’re sure even the Tri-
dent would agree with this one.

Ellie itting-tum iﬁhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey

Executive Editors

Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w& life Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Opinion & Editorial Editor Stephen Pesce
Sports Editors Frances Groherg
Brendan Harrington
Last Word Editor Kevin McManemin
Photo Editor Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco
Business Manager Jill Jamieson
Circulation Manager Brian Rogers
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “My Views”
do not reﬁect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

  

 

Less friendly competition
threatens Night Owl Music

Wayne greets me as I pull open the Night Owl Music
door one day last September. We chat about the weather,
new album releases and current tours as I pick out Ani
DiFranco’s “Dilate.”

A used copy of “The Best of the
Velvet Underground” catches my eye,
so I grab it too. We listen to a solo
project by “the guy who does all the
really good guitar work on the Dave
Matthews albums,” as Wayne describes him.

I set the albums on the counter. Wayne smiles appre-

 

ciatively at the VU tape. He only rings me up for the
DiFranco CD. “No charge for the Velvets,” he says. And

that’s that.

Night Owl Music owner Wayne Raynal has always
treated me kindly, like he did last September. I don’t
mean to imply that he gives me a free album every time
I walk in the store. Wayne runs Night Owl, not the Sal-
vation Army, after all. But he welcomes his customers
with a genuine interest in their musical tastes, a will-
ingness to provide what his customers want and sin-
cere friendliness. You’re not treated this well in just

any music store.

I’m distressed to hear that Wayne may have to close up

NIGHT OWL MUSIC threatens closure If students do
nof'p‘at‘r‘on'i’z‘e' ‘thefellow General whotruly cares about
the music interestsof his customers.

 Red Brick Row
“  David Balsley 99

C C
uote of the week:

I’m a practicing hetero-
sexual. Practice makes
perfect!

— anonymous Phi editor

77

TALKb 2;.

shop. Facing competition from the new guys in town,
Crossroads CD5 and Tapes, tried-and-true Night Owl Mu-
sic could disappear from the Lexington music scene. Ap-
parently, we W&L students have only one year to save
the store. Here is why we should.

First, Wayne’s mantra: “All CDs a
dollar below list price and special orders
at no extra charge.” ’Nuff said.

Second, Wayne supports us.

' Waynestock provided W&L bands Hopper Genie, Under-

pants Cowboy and duo Aaron Brotherton and Anthony
Allen a place to play and a chance for us to listen. Also,
Wayne’s store features a gallery for local artists. At least,
we should support Wayne in return.

Third, Wayne is one of us. He opened Night Owl Mu-
sic after attending W&L in the ’70s. Why not patronize a
fellow General?

Fourth, the personal touch Wayne brings to Night Owl
is unique. I have never seen the friendliness that Wayne
shows his customers matched at any other store. It would
be a shame to lose the last outpost in the war between
friendly small store owners and corporate moguls.

Dave Matthews just released a new album, and as a
W&L student, you probably want to buy it. When you do,
please buy it from Wayne.

  

Self-governance
requires support

Last week, I began my career as a Phi columnist with
what some have considered an overly pessimistic view of
the current student—faculty relationship. Just as I began to
fear that I may have been too hasty, a miraculous thing
occurred: a profes- -
sor wrote a letter to
the Phi that largely
veriﬁed my claims.

I’m sure you all
remember the ill-
conceived letter —— the one that implied that students at
Washington and Lee, especially those involved in the cur-
rent judicial systems, tacitly condone misbehavior of the
worst variety. I do not think anyone would disagree with
the writer’s main point — that W&L students should be
above engaging in shameful and dangerous activities. The
commentary that accompanied his argument, however,
worries me.

If a handful of faculty members who believe what this
man seems to have been implying -— that students more or
less approve of the criminal activities we’ve witnessed of
late —— then the case for student self—govemance is slipping.
Just when the Board of Trustees is poised to encourage a
higher level of student authority, a few highly publicized
stories undermine all progress.

Take, as an example, the unfortunate plight of two of our
harder working studentjudicial systems — the IFC and the
SJC. Both have been particularly diligent in executing their
duties. One would hope that this would prove to the faculty
and the administration that students are ﬁnally fulﬁlling their
obligations to enforce the appropriate standards of conduct.
Instead, the opposite seems true.

I perceive a fundamental error in the collective judge-
ment of our faculty; they are too quick to confuse student
action with student reaction. Some individuals among us
will behave badly; and no matter how strong a system we
devise, we will never eliminate individuals’ indiscretion. At
best we can establish a system that deals with problems as
they arise.

I ﬁrmly believe that, had students been given the oppor-
tunity to prove themselves in the emergency cases of hazing
last term, student reaction would have equaled the
administration’s. Unfortunately, because of the well-mean-
ing intervention of the Hill, we were never given the chance
to prove ourselves worthy of trust.

I hope that such rash judgement might be avoided in the
future. Allowing students to manage their own affairs has
traditionally been one of W&L’s most successful innova-
tions. Though certain members of the faculty are beginning
to doubt the feasibility of this goal, I encourage the remain-
der to look more closely at how most students respond to the
lamentable actions of their peers.

We need to restore trust in student self—govemance. Trad-
ing caustic remarks in editorial pages will not fulﬁll the role
of campus dialogue. The status quo is losing credibility,
and we need to consider the possibility of establishing a ﬁrmer
order.

 

A letter to The Ring-tum Phi

A letter to the incoming presidents of W&L fraternities

Gentlemen:

I write this letter because I am greatly disturbed, both
by the actions of some fraternities the past few years, and
especially this year, and the troubling attitude of some of
those involved as reported in the student newspapers.

I write this letter, not as a member of the Board of Trust-
ees — I have no authority to speak for the Board, nor would
I presume to do so. I write it only for myself, an alumnus
who, as do you, loves Washington and Lee University and
feels the need to rebut some of the misconceptions and
shibboleths which exist and correct some of the untiuths and
half-truths.

There has been an increase over the past several years
in both the incidence and severity of drinking and hazing.
The president of the fraternity whose ten members were
suspended seemed more concerned with procedural nice-
ties than that the actions of the members of his fraternity
brought shame to it and the University.

In a letter printed in The Trident, which should receive
an award for chutzpah, a senior alleges that “student au-
tonomy is dead at Washington and Lee;” goes on to chas-
tise President Elrod for “driving off a dozen men who
were true assets to this University;” asserts that “fully co-
operating with the University, a student can expect to re-
ceive a penalty which is a monument to hypocrisy;” and
ﬁnally that the University acted inappropriately in taking
control of the process. Student autonomy is not dead but
did have to be preemptively taken away in this case be-
cause of the seriousness of the offense. Surely, no rea-
sonable person can expect that the level of autonomy that
he or she is granted will not bear some relationship to his
or her responsibility level. The president’s actions were
fully justiﬁed by the severity of the case and fully sup-
ported by the rector, who is known for his commitment
to student autonomy.

What this says to me — and it is depressing — is
that two entire pledge classes, a number of upperclass-
men and presumably some percentage of those from
whom we have not heard, just don’t get it. They don’t
get it that honor and civility are the cornerstone of
W&L society; they don’t get it that hazing is dishon-
orable and completely at variance with minimum stan-
dards of civility. They don’t get it that those who ad-
mitted complicity were doing no more than adhering
to the honor system. They don’t get any of it.

For many years, I was fully supportive of fraterni-
ties. I extolled their values — bonding, learning to live
in a group environment, the opportunity for a leader-
ship experience. Unfortunately, and sadly, over the past
few years, I have come to the realization that the dark
side of fraternities —the all too prevalent cynicism,
the excessive drinking, the hazing — so overshadows
their benefits that it is questionable whether the
University’s values can coexist with those evidenced
by the fraternities.

Based on my conversations with board members and
alumni, I must tell you that patience is wearing thin.
If fraternities are to continue to exist at W&L, they
must operate more responsibly than they have over the
past several years.  If they do not demonstrate an
awareness oftheir responsibility as W&L students and
a willingness to live under the spirit as well as the let-
ter of Board policy, they will ﬁnd themselves subject
to increasing control. It is up to you, the presidents of
the fraternities, to see that your members get the mes-
sage, “loud and clear.” If you don’t and they don’t,
you and they will have no one but yourselves to blame
for the consequences.

Sincerely,
Gray Castle

 

 

Where do you think you will be in 10 years?

at

  

“On the beach, getting drunk.”

——Dil|on Whisler ‘O0

 

“Still be pledging $19.98 to the “Tacking my 95 Theses on the door “A wrestler in WCW.”
Alumni Fund.” ofwashington Hall.”
—JaS0n Zacher ’98 —The Gadﬂy ’00 ——Andrew Fiske ‘O1

’$

‘f

 

—<

ai

  

MAY 11, 1998

Curtain call on the Hot Line

he Washington and Lee University Theatre Department will be presenting Hot Line, a one-act play by Elaine

May, next weekend in the Rehearsal Hall of the Lenfest Center.

The show, directed by senior Zach Hanks, is the story of a novice suicide hotline counselor named Ken. The
play follows Ken’s experience with a sharp-tongued, suicidal hooker named Dorothy. It is a story of need, a
powerful and passionate piece that mixes comedy and drama. The show will feature performances by Colin Tate
’0 I, Erika Van Helden ’98, Ryan Truax ’O1, Kathie Soroka ’0l and Vanessa Chen ’01. Performances will be Friday,
May 15 at 8 p.m., Saturday, May 16 at 8 p.m. and Sunday, May 17 at 8 p.m. No tickets are required for the show.

 

SOME OF THE students in-
volved with the production take
a break from creating a master-
piece to smile for the camera. The
show will be this weekend in the
Lenfest Center, and no tickets are
required. Pictured are (left to
right, standing): Cassie Ritter,
Colin Tate, Zach Hanks, Erika
Cassutti, Kathie Soroka; (left to
right, seated): Erika Van Helden,
Ryan Truax. Pnom (,'()UR'lESl’ 01«'
IHI-I W&L THEATRE DEl’AR7Ml:'N’l'

—— compiled from staﬂ reports

W&life

G&L welcomesnew leader

Ever wonder who’s in G&L besides Alex Christensen?
Sure you have. The organization, for reasons you might
guess, leaves publicizing its membership up to its mem-
bers. Since Christensen is graduating, however, junior Jes-
sica Simpson is stepping up to the plate to take over lead-
ership of the four-year-old campus group.

G&L is Washington and Lee University’s gay, lesbian
and bisexual organization. Christensen is gay. What is
Simpson?

“Well,” Simpson said, “I don’t feel the need to label
myself beyond ‘president.’ I would rather become aware
of my sexuality by discovering it, instead of by consulting
some set of expectations. Besides, any label, even the word
‘sexuality,’ makes it seem like I’m just a sexual person. But
I’m more than that. I ’m an intellectual person, a religious
person, a W&L student and more.”

Simpson’s goals for the group include maintaining
G&L’s public presence and fostering understanding and
education among students with different backgrounds and
perspectives.

“The group walks a ﬁne line between letting its mem-
bers hide out or escape and helping them ﬁnd something
useful to share with other people,” she said. “I want to

make sure it continues to be useful to its members and the
W&L community in that way.”

Christensen helped to found the group during his
freshman year. The membership has been steady at about
eight to 12 members who attend meetings and events.

Some controversy also followed the group through
its event in Lee Chapel, Christensen’s well-attended de-
bate with Glenn Miller and its reception for the “Ellen”
coming-out episode.

“Some people see me as a troublemaker,” said
Christensen. “But I didn’t create the controversy. I just
didn’t back down on it. I think you can see that from the
relatively quiet way we’ve conducted ourselves this year.
The atmosphere has gotten better already. That’s why I’m
so positive about Jessica taking over the group. She can
move it beyond what it’s become with me as the public
face without taking away from anything we’ve accom-
plished so far.”

Anyone interested in contacting G&L or joining the
group can call Christensen at 464-1679 or e-mail Simpson
at jsimpson@wlu.edu. All meetings are conﬁdential.

— compiled from staﬂ reports

PAGE 5

Religion revivedon campus

CD Religion plays an important role in the lives of many W&L students

BY GINGERPHILLIPS

B17I%47UR1§Fo/rm

Religion? 1 haven ’t heard much about that in a while. My parents used to make me go to church with them,

but I ’m in college now. Does it all really matter?

Maybe these thoughts have crossed your mind re-
cently, or maybe they haven’t because you simply don’t
have enough time to think about religion. Perhaps you
pass by a church as if it were just any other building and
you haven’t read the Bible since you were forced to do so
in your English Lit class. Religion, however, is a prevalent
force on the Washington and Lee campus and an essential
part of the lives of many W&L students.

Numerous religious organizations are active on cam-
pus. “I grew up with a strong religious background. When
I came to W&L I wanted to seek out some way to help me
to grow more,” said an anonymous junior. “Joining a rel’-
gious group helped me to do that.”

Two of the largest of these groups are the Inter Va
sity Christian Fellowship and Catholic Campus Minis
Inter Varsity is a student-led, inter denominati I '~ 
that meets once a week and sponsors a variety
tivities throughout the year.

“One of our main goals is to have a place for peopl
to hang out and not feel pressured,” said junior IV mem - -
Dave Passavant. “They can be comfortable and really f 0
cus on fellowship. We provide a bond that goes beyon
some other groups. A lot of the members are in fratemitie
and sororities; IV is just something different.”

While groups such as IV and CCM claim to offer a
comfortable atmosphere, many students still feel discour-
aged from joining.

“[ReIigious groups] often seem too large, too imper-
sonal or even too agenda-oriented to many young adults,”
said William “Burr” Datz, campus minister and organizer
of CCM.

College is a time in which most students begin to ask
questions about themselves and deeply reﬂect on their
beliefs on a variety of things. Despite religious activity on
campus, many students have yet to consider the real mean-
ing of religion in their lives. Others are confused about
what exactly religion is.

“I think that many people have a misconception
about what religion really is. They think it is just a set
of rules that they must follow,” said Passavant. “How-
ever, religion is not necessarily just going to church.
For me it is the most fundamental thing in my life. Reli-
gion is the relationship that you have with God and
with other believers.”

Many students grow up following the religious prac-
tices of their parents without ever thinking about religion
for themselves. When they come to college they are faced
with unprecedented independence and must make their
own decisions. Religion oﬂen falls to the wayside as other
priorities take over.

“Religion is often something that young adults
have been given, and grown up with; in one sense, it’s
the only menu they know,” said Datz. “When they ar-
rive on campus, the decision to attend church is no
longer a decision their parents will make for them. Some
consciously decide to not attend, some unconsciously
decide to stay in bed.”

Freshman Sarah Walters said, “If people only went to
church because their parents made them go, then they
probably don’t feel really close to God and won’t go to
church once they come to college.”

“Whether you go to church or not depends on your
motivation. You have to have a personal interest in going,

   
   
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
    
 

not just because someone else wants you to go,” said the
anonymousjunior.

College culture itself provides many distractions that
sometimes take the place of religion. Students may feel
pressured to focus on what their peers think is popular or
cool, and too often religion does not ﬁt that description.

“Many people get away from home and just want to
do their own thing. Once they get away from their parents,
religion isn’t trendy anymore,” said junior Seth Kellermann,
chairperson of Inter Varsity. ‘‘It is not easy to be a strong
Christian here. In this drinking and hook-up culture, it is
ard to be different and to profess what you believe.”
Students also have other priorities that they consider
: ore important than religion. Academic and social reasons

hen keep them from focusing on their religious beliefs. On
" * ~ mings, many students are sleeping late, recover-
-~ : ’ ~ 2- r I angover, or yes - even studying for an exam.
“People make up a lot of reasons why they don’t make
.- ligion a priority in their lives,” said Walters. “It seems ri-
V iculous to make excuses like that because everyone always
akes time for parties and other things they want to do.”

Many area churches make efforts to accommodate stu-
V ents who, for whatever reason, cannot make it to an early
» oming service on Sunday. St. Patrick’s Catholic Church
holds mass at 8 and 10:30 a.m. and at 5 p.m. Other area
churches also have special groups and meetings devoted
to college students.

Christianity is the most prominent religion on cam-
pus, which may discourage students of other faiths.

‘‘I really don’t ﬁnd a great deal of diversity in religion
at W&L. I think that this is a result of a lack of cultural
diversity on campus as well,” said freshman Deena
Johnson.

Despite the apparent lack of religion in some seg-
ments of the W&L community, there is a myriad of stu-
dents who have already developed deeply rooted reli-
gious convictions.

“People who had a strong religious commitment be-
fore they came to college continue to maintain that even
aﬁer they come to college,” Kellennann said.

Walters said, “Religion helps me to maintain the focus
on what is really important in my life.”

For Walters and other students, religion is the central
component in their lives.

“Life is a quest for truth, and for me, the truth is in my
faith,” said the anonymous junior. “It has deﬁnitely been a
challenge to maintain that in college because this atmo-
sphere does not really do anything to encourage religion.
However, since I’ve come here, my beliefs have become
ten times stronger.”

“In my experience, if young adults are experiencing
spiritual hunger, they will go wherever they will be fed,
wherever God leads them to find sustenance," said Datz.
“It’s a great time to ask questions, and I believe that today’s
college students, on these and other campuses, are asking
those questions of religion and faith.”

As religion becomes a major factor in the lives of an
increasing number of students, others will be forced to
deﬁne religion in their own hearts and minds.

“Faith has given me a sense of peace and content-
ment that I otherwise wouldn’t have,” Kellennann said.

As other students begin to search for the same thing,
religion will continue to play an important role on campus.

  

.,.

It's Travel Time!

It ’s spring, and that means it ’s time to relax, kick back,
and travel to exotic and fim-ﬁlled locations. But in our
little corner of Virginia, there isn ’t that much to do close
by (no, really? I). So here 's a guide to interesting destina-
tions no more than a few hours away ﬁom good old Lex.

‘ , Courtesy Lazar Brisacca ViTrri5 Bmcxaim RECORDING .Cow=.42vr 1

Of course, most stu-
dents are already familiar
with D.C. even if they haven’t
been there. It’s the nation’s capital, the home of count-
less museums, attractions and people. But for those
students who have never visited there or tend to miss
the interesting (but tourist-related) stuff, here’s a little
guide.

The Smithsonian is worth seeing. It doesn’t matter
how boring some people think it is; this is the big col-
lection of museums, the place where the Fonz’sjacket
and Dorothy’s slippers are kept, so visit. The museums
ring the Mall (a big grassy expanse) that stretches from
the Washington Monument to the Capitol. A little brisk
walking will get you to everything you want to see in
this area. For your own good, though, try not to go on
the weekends. Spring is a big vacation time in D.C.,
both for ordinary families and for school trips. So un-
less you plan to share your experience with a busload
of annoying seventh-graders, plan to go during the
week.

For history or architecture buffs, there are the
Jefferson Memorial, the Lincoln Memorial, the National
Cathedral, the Vietnam Veteran’s Memorial, the National
Archives and the Capitol itself. It’ll feeljust like home
once you see all the white columns. Other hot spots
include the White House (take note: no photographs
allowed inside the building), the Supreme Court build-
ing, and the Library of Congress. After a while, you’ll
get used to the metal detectors at the entrance to every
building. For a bit of adventure, dress relatively well
and explore the tunnels under the Congressional ofﬁce
buildings. These are concrete access tunnels that con-
veniently connect several buildings under the streets

 

This week, we ‘re oﬂ to Washington D. C.

to make walking traﬁic-free.
Of course, there are metal
detectors down here, too,
so don’t carry weaponry with you.

If you’re an X-phile, visit the FBI building. If you
have time, you can also try to contact your congres-
sional representative and set up a meeting. They’re
usually pretty good about ﬁnding the time to chat with
up-and-coming college students. If you just feel like
walking, take a stroll around the Mall area, since people
tend to encounter interesting things around here. In
April 1994, a group of high school students who were
meandering around this area found a Ross Perot press
conference, a Jesse Jackson march, Michael Dukakis
taking a stroll and Bill Clinton on his daily jog, all on the
same weekday. Bring a camera, just in case.

Of course, if you want to avoid thought-related
attractions, choices include Planet Hollywood, Hard
Rock Cafe and about seven jillion other restaurants
and shopping areas. lt’s customary for Washington
and Lee students to have friends at the D.C.-area col-
leges so getting around isn’t a problem. And one of the
main reasons for driving all the way up there is, of
course, the concert selection. The Washington Post
does a good job of listing the bands and other acts that
will soon grace the city, so buy a copy and plan your
trip.

If you want more info about the D.C. area, try vis-
iting http://dc.yahoo.com for goodies about the city
and surrounding environs. The quickest way to get to
D.C. is to get on I-64 northeast for about I 10 miles, then
east on HWY 66 for about 76 miles.

— Puoms (.'()(IR’l'I:‘.\'l' or Jim CHRISTIAN,
www. V()l('l;‘Nl:'7'.('()M/~.II£l-MAN/lWA.S'HI)( 2 H'IMI.

 

 

 

PAGE 4

Men’s lax
churched by
the Bishops

BY BRENDAN HARRINGION

Si=oirisEDrroR

 

Every year that Washington and Lee has qualiﬁed for the
Men’s Lacrosse Division III Tournament, they have been
sent home packing by Ohio Wesleyan University. This year
was no exception, as the Bishops scored ten second half
goals to pull away from the Generals and cruise to a 17-8
victory in the quarterﬁnal of the NCAA tournament on Sat-
urday aftenioon at Wilson Field.

The Generals knew they would have to play a nearly ﬂaw-
less game to down the No. 1 seed Ohio Wesleyan (14-1),
whose only loss came against Division 1 Butler in their first
game of the season. But the Generals just couldn’t seem to
ﬁnd the net on this day, as Bishops goalie Kevin McGum
robbed the Generals on numerous occasions and finished
with 17 saves.

‘‘It just wasn’t our day,” said senior goalie Scott Jack-
son, who fmished with 15 saves. “They’re a team that is
going to captilize on any mistakes you make. We just
weren’t shooting well, and it would have helped if I’d made
a few more saves.”

“We played hard but we just didn’t execute,” senior cap-
tain Paul Stanley said. “We didn’t shoot well and their keeper
[ Kevin McGum ] came up with some saves that we thought
would have dropped.”

Kevin’s brother Darren McGurn, Dan Stroka, and
Evan Dunne each scored four goals to lead the offen-
sive attack for the Bishops. Senior attackman David
Maguire also added a goal and three assists in the win-
ning cause as the Generals were unable to contain the
nation’s top ranked offense.

Ohio Wesleyan jumped out to a 4-1 lead in the ﬁrst
quarter before back-to-back goals by freshman Matt Dugan
brought the Generals within a goal early in the second
quaiter. The Bishops then answered with two goals of their
own to make it 6-3 before Dugan struck again and brought
the Generals back within two. But that would be the clos-
est the Generals would get, as the Bishops scored two
goals before the end of the half to take a 8-4 lead into the
locker room.

The Generals hoped their season-long dominance of the
third quarter would continue against OWU, but the Bishops
shot down those hopes rather quickly as they scored their
third straight goal less than a minute into the quarter to make
it 9-4. The Generals would not get closer than four goals the
rest of the way, as the Bishops outscored the Generals 10-4
in the second half to make the final score 17-8.

‘‘It was a shame to lose,” freshman midﬁelder Pope Hack-
ney said. “But it was a great season and you can’t take that
away from us.”

Matt Dugan closed out a remarkable ﬁeshman season
with a career high ﬁve goals for the Generals. Dugan fm-
ished the season with 56 points, the most ever scored by a
freshman at W&L. The remaining three goals for the Gener-
als were scored by sophomore Colin Dougherty and seniors
Paul Stanley and Ed Dougherty.

With their thirteenth straight victory, the Bishops ad-
vanced to the semiﬁnals of the tournament to face Nazareth
Saturday in Rochester, N.Y. The winner of that game will
face either Salisbury State or Washington College, which
were both victorious in the quarterﬁnal on Saturday.

The Generals finished a terriﬁc season at 13-3. Their all-
time record in the Division 111 toumament dropped to 2-4, all
four of those losses coming at the hands of Ohio Wesleyan.

“You have to be happy with what we did this year,” Stanley
said. “ I was proud to be a part of a team that put W&L
lacrosse back on the map.”

“We had a great season and you can’t ask for more than
that,” Jackson added. “ We would much rather finish the

season with a loss against the number one team in the nation
instead of beating up on VMl.”

sports

Women’s lax loses, no regrets

St. Mary ’s College Seahawks defeat the Generals in NCAA 1st round

BY JASON ZACHER SENIOR Emok

 

To a competitive athlete, a loss is painful, but not getting
revenge against a team is agonizing.

That was the case when St. Mary’s (Md.) beat Wash-
ington and Lee 1 1-8 in the ﬁrst round of the NCAA Divi-
sion III tournament on Wednesday, ending the Generals’
season and dropping their record to 13-3 —- two of those
losses came at the hands of St. Mary’s.

W&L jumped out to an early lead, but there were three
ties and three lead changes. The first half ended in a 4-4
stalemate. The Seahawks overpowered the Generals in the
second half, however, scoring six of the first seven goals of
the half. With 7:06 remaining in the game, St. Mary’s had built
a comfortable 10-5 lead.

“It was so hot and we were really tired in the second half,”
sophomore Katherine Riddle said. “They were just faster
and more prepared to deal with the heat and being tired.”

Senior captain Whitney Parker answered by chipping in
two goals and pulling the game to 10-7, but that’s as close at
the Generals would get.

W&L was led by Parker’s three goals. Riddle and senior
captain Lorraine Taurassi each scored two, while senior Susie
Creamer added another goal.

“We play every game to have no regrets,” Taurassi said.
“They were simply the better team —- that happens some-
times.”

Sophomore Ginny J emigan played strong for the Gen-
erals once again, stopping 14 of the 25 shots taken on her,
but the offense couldn’t take advantage of her play. St.
Mary’s goalkeeper Tara Jensen made 8 saves on only 16
shots by the Generals.

Seniors Gia Trionfo and Melissa Moore and sopho-

 

FRESHMAN A TTACKMAN Pope Hackney tries to get around two defenders in the semifinals of the NCAA Men ’s
Division 1]] tournament on Saturday. The Battling Biships of Ohio Wesleyan defeated the Generals 17-8 in the

afternoon contest.

HOLLISTER HOVl;‘Y/EXEC(lTIVE EDITOR

more Kari Meyer each scored three goals for St. Mary’s.

St. Mary’s beat the Generals over spring break by a ‘

score of 13-1, a loss some W&L players contributed to the
lack of practice and the fact that three of W&L’s top scor-

, ers were not playing at 100 percent.

“We’re glad we got to play them again,” Taurassi said.
“We really feel that we redeemed ourselves. They were a
really great team.” .

A St. Mary’s advanced to the quarterﬁnals at the No. 1
seed College of New Jersey on Sunday, who beat the
Seahawks 11-7.

The trip to the NCAA tournament was the first by the
Generals since 1993. W&L earned the trip to the touma-
merit alter ﬁnishing the regular season with the best record
in ODAC history (8-0), and beating arch-rival Roanoke Col-
lege in the ODAC title game 9-5.

Despite the loss to St. Mary’s, Taurassi still looks fondly
on a solid season that included the ODAC title.

“It was a really hard to ﬁnish the seaon like that,” she
said. “But the season went really well.”

MAY 11, 1998

Shapardl
Blankinship
reach semis

BYFi2ANa=sGRoizizRo

SPCXl'SF1]'l‘CR

  

In the spring of 1995,
freshmen Berry
Blankinship and Ericka
Shapard looked on as a
fellow freshman, Natalia Garcia, and senior Marilyn Baker
capture the Division 111 Individual Doubles Championship.

Now it’s their turn to try and repeat the accomplish-
ment. For these two seniors, being ODAC Champions
just isn't enough.

Today, when most of Division 111 women's tennis
has put their racquets up for the
season, the team of Blankinshipl
Shapard takes on Kenyon in the in-
dividual Doubles Semiﬁnal match.
The team has fought through both
the first round and the
quarterﬁnals, defeating teams from
both Gustavus Adolphus and
Claremont-Mudd-Scripps to reach
the semiﬁnals.

They'll have to work for it. The
Kenyon team of Caryn Cuthbert and Erin Hockman has
not dropped a set in the tournament, cruising to easy
victories over Emory in the ﬁrst round and Williams in
the quarterﬁnals.

“I’m actually pretty positive about playing

 
  

u

..’3"rr‘"*"‘ “"":’<:*r“*'-

Blankinship

[Kenyon]," Blankinship said. “We have nothing to lose,-

so there’s no reason we shouldn't come out swinging
against them. lt’s going to be a tough match, but if we
play to our potential, we definitely
have a shot.”

Her partner holds similar senti-
ments. “We play two very differ-
ent styles of tennis,” Shapard said.
“They’re huge hitters, while we’re
more of a ﬁnesse team. We’ll have
to come out very aggressive and
play our game very well.”

Shapard also competed in
singles, losing in the second
round to the No. 1 Amherst player,
freshman Jamie Cohen. Brook l-lartzell, the team’s sec-
ond singles contender also lost in the second round to
Kristen Olsen of UC-San Diego.

The women as a team were also successful in the
NCAA tournament, losing in the quarterﬁnals to
Gustavus Adolphus 6-3. Wins were recorded by Shapard
and Erin Eggers in singles, and the team of Blankinship/
Shapard in doubles.

“We did very well this season,” Shapard said. “Ev-
eryone played beyond our expectations, but we have
no regrets.”

Blankinship has high praise and high hopes for the
team. “We were very young, with no juniors,” -.‘-he said.
“The future will be better. The freshmen and sopho-
mores have enormous potential."

 

Shapard

Quarterfinals
Wed., May 6

First Round
Tuesday, May 5

Trini Texas 18-3
Trinitv

BYE

NCAA DIVISION III WoMi«:N’s TENNIS RESULTS

 

Semifinals
Thurs., May 7

Finals
Friday, May 8

Amherst

Amherstg 16-1 2
UC-San Diego g 1 1-8!

Skidmore} 17-1)
Luther g Iowan 12-42

Amherst

Skidmore

Skidmore

Skidmore

College of NJ (12-1)

Emory

Emo 18-4

Washington and Lee 116-3)
Willim§(§-4)

W&L 5-3

Skidmore

 

GAC 6-3

Univ. ofthe Southg 12-82 M
Gustavus Adolphus 5 17-4}

Hope College 1 17-1 1

Claremont-Mudd-

Scrippsj 18-3 l

GAC

CMS

Kenyon

Kenyon

Kenyon g 12-52
BYE

Kenyon

 

 

 

 

MAY 11, 1998

WOOLDRIDGE GIVES SENIOR RECITAL

Senior Margaret Ann Wooldridge will perform a piano re- .b
cital on Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Johnson Theater of the
Lenfest Center. Her program will include Bach’s Chromatic
Fantasy and Fugue in D Minor, Beethoven’s Sonata in E

Major, Op. 109, Gershwin’s Three Preludes and Chopin’s
Fantasie in F Minor.

C-SCHOOL SPONSORS SERIES ON WOMEN, POLITICS
'4 Stuart Warner, a professor of philosophy at Roosevelt University, will give
his lecture “Mothers, Wives and Daughters: The Women of Tocqueville’s De-
mocracy in America” this Friday in Room 327.

The lecture is part of a symposium sponsored by the Williams School of
Commerce called “The Nature of Women and the Art of Politics.” The
§ymposium’s goal is to stimulate inquiry about the meanings of “women’s
nature” and the “art” of politics through examination of classic Western works
and visiting lecturers.

APO HOSTS CYSTIC FIBROSIS WALKATHON
Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity, will host a walkathon next
Wednesday. The walkathon will beneﬁt “Great Strides,” a cystic ﬁbrosis re-
search foundation.
, The walk will begin at the Liberty Hall Ruins at 6 p.m., continue past the Law
School, Woods Creek Apartments and along the Chessie Trail. The walk will
proceed around the Colonnade, over the footbridge and return to the Ruins as
the ﬁnal destination. The course is expected to take less than two hours.
Walkers are encouraged to collect sponsors and donations. The Alpha
Phi Omega contact is Elizabeth Slonaker. She may be contacted with ques-
tions at 462-4272.

JUDGE MANELLA ADDRESSES LAW GRADUATES

The Honorable Nora Manella, United States Attorney for the central District
bf California, will deliver the address for commencement exercises for the Wash-
ington and Lee University School of Law on Sunday.

The ceremony will begin at 2:30 p.m. on the lawn in front of the Lee House.
W&L expects to award juris doctor degrees to 115 third-year students in the
r,i_~niversity’s l43rd graduating law class.

ETHICS INSTITUTE BRINGS GREEN TO SPEAK
Washington and Lee University’s Business Ethics Institute will bring Ronald
M. Green, the John Phillips Professor of Religion and Director of Dartmouth
.,ollege’s Ethics Institute, to speak next Friday at 4:30 pm. in room 221 of the
Williams School of Commerce. His lecture is titled “The Emerging Global Busi-
ness Ethics” and is open to the public.
Green has written ﬁve books an many articles about applied ethics, espe-
ytially business ethics and bioethics. He is the author of The Ethical Manager
K1994) and Religion and Moral Reason (1988). He is also a member of the
editorial board of The Business Ethics Quarterly.

MUSIC DEPARTMENT- PRESENTS REVIEW . .
*5 “New York, New“ York,” a Broadwaylmusical review-, will be presented on
Saturday in the Johnson Theatre of the Lenfest Center. The program will con-
sist of selections from shows set in New York, including Bemstein’s “On the
Town” and “West Side Story,” Sondheirn’s “Company,” Jule Styne’s “Bells are
Ringing” and “Funny Girl” and Harry Warren’s “42nd Street.”

The musical review will be directed by Washington and Lee University
faculty member Scott Williamson. William McCorl<le will accompany the perfor-
mance, and the numbers will be sung by a cast of students.

HERB GUILD SELLS PLANTS IN HOPKINS GREEN
The Valley of Virginia Herb Guild will present its third annual Herb Sale in
Lexington’s Hopkins Green on Saturday from 9 a.m. until noon. A collection of
thymes as well as a vast assortment of many different culinary, fragrant and
ornamental herb plants will be for sale.
‘I Among the many herb plants to be offered at the sale are varieties of basil,
salvia, coneﬂowers, lavenders, thymes, sweet woodruff,
artemsias, mint, dill, chives, monardas, rosemary and
numerous others. I
In addition to herb plants, other items will also be
for sale: tote bags, t-shirts and sweatshirts with herb
designs as well as an assortment of informative book-
lets on herbs and gardening. Strawberry pots planted
with herbs will also be for sale.

   

rjjjjjjjjw

' NEED
CASH?

l
I
I The Ring-tum Phi needs help
selling ads. You’ll earn
commission on each ad you
I sell. Leave a message at
I 462-4060 or e-mail
I jjamieso@wlu.edu.
in

HELP
WANTED

4

vi; area. Experience un-
necessary, will train.

Call Medicard,
1 -541-386-5290
Ext. 1 18M.

%
*1

 

U The Nurturing Network is dedicated to helping any
Me” and ""°me” ear“ woman with an unwanted pregnancy give life to her °
$375 weekIy.pr°°eSS.' unborn child. We have specialized resources to meet o
& afsgmtgggdhgegi the practical needs of working and college women  .
home'_ 'lmmediate offering a real alternative  one which recognizes .
openingS_ your local your unique values, needs, and circumstances. .

A phone call to 1-800-TNN-4MOM can help you
give your child a future
without giving up on your own.

POLITICAL “WATCHDOG”TO SPEAK IN NORTHEN

Larry Klayman, a chairman and general counsel of Judicial Watch, will speak
in Northen Auditorium next Monday at 7:30 p.m. The talk is sponsored by
Contact.

Judicial Watch is a conservative nonpartisan ethical and legal “watchdog”
group. Klayman and his group have brought 14 cases against the Clinton
administration. The group uncovered the illegal Democratic National Commit-
tee fundraiser and the Clinton campaign ﬁnance scandal. Judicial Watch also
has a case against the Justice Department for Janet Reno’s failure to appoint
independent counsel to investigate the fundraising scandal.

Klayman began gs a Justice Department lawyer, and later created his private
practice as Klayman & Associates, P.C. He earned his bachelor’s degree from
Duke University in 1974, and his juris doctor degree from Emory University
Law School in 1977.

LITERARY MAGAZINES SPONSOR READING

Ariel and The Southern Collegian, two Washington and Lee literary maga-
zines, will host a student reading program followed by an open reading Wednes-
day in Northen Auditorium. The student program will feature poetry by Geoffrey
Bowley ’99, Alex Christensen ’98, Courtney Miller ’98, Katie Moore ’98, Kris
O’Neal ’98 and Susan Slim ’01.

KUMPURIS DELIVERS SHEPHERD LECTURE

Andrew G. Kumpuris, M.D., a 1971 graduate of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, will speak on “Health Care for the Poor: Obstacles and Prognosis” 7:30
p.m. Monday in Northen Auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Shep-
herd Poverty Program.

Kumpuris received a B.S., magna cum laude, from W&L, where he was a
member of the scholastic All American Football Team, Who’s Who in Ameri-
can Colleges and Universities, and Omicron Delta Kappa. He received his M.D.
degree with honors from Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas, where
he also did his internship, residency and fellowship in cardiology.

PARTICIPATE IN PHONATHON

The Annual Fund is hiring callers for its Spring
Phonathon. Participants are paid $5.25 per hour for calling
alumni and asking for pledges during two evenings or more
per week. Contact Shelley Milligan at Ext. 8487 or

mmilliga@wlu.edu for training times.

INDIANS PLAY IN LEE CHAPEL

The Ofﬁce of International Education’s International Performing Arts Series
will bring Shivkumar Shanna, Rahul Sharma and Shafaat Ahmed Khan to Lee
Chapel 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. The concert of Indian classical music is in celebra-
tion of the 50th anniversary of India’s independence.

   
 
  

INDIANS PLAY IN LEE CHAPEL

The Ofﬁce of International Education’ 5 Intemational Performing Arts Series
will bring Shivkumar Sharma, Rahul Shanna and Shafaat Ahmed Khan to Lee
Chapel 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. The concert of Indian classical music is in celebra-
tion of the 50th anniversary of India’s independence.

‘BLOOD’ TAKES THE DUPONT STAGE

Jennifer Bloomﬁeld will be performing her one-woman show, "Blood, White
& Blue", 7 pm. Tuesday in duPont Auditorium. The show will be sponsored by
Women’s Forum. '

Bloomﬁeld wrote and stars in the show, which, she says, is about “self-
realization,” and “the ways in which individuals in our society become com-
modities.” There are no props or scenery, and Bloomﬁeld plays 25’-30 charac-
te"rs’," including a personiﬁed giant breast. “It’s a candid, open account of the
human experience in a well-developed, surreal way,” said Roshni Nirody,
Women’ 5 Forum Public Relations Coordinator.

Bloomﬁeld has performed “Blood” in cities across the country, including
San Francisco, Burlington and Oxford, Ohio. Her full-length play, “Escaping
Warsaw,” premiered off-Broadway in March.

TALK ABOUT COLLEGE DRINKING
The Health Education Office will host an OCTAA (On
Campus Talking About Alcohol) program 6 p.m. until 8
p.m. Thursday in the University Center. OCTAA hopes
to create a “new way of thinking about drinking at W&L”
by explaining how to make low-risk drinking choices, how
to estimate your biological risk for alcohol related prob-
lems and how alcohol affects your body based on quan-
tity/frequency choices. Refreshments will be served during the program.
Call the Health Education Ofﬁce at 462-4501 to reserve a place.

 

BROTHERTON, FORREST ‘ENCHANT’ AUDIENCE

Seniors Aaron Brotherton and Christopher Forrest will present their senior
composition recital entitled “One Enchanted Evening” 8 p.m. Tuesday in the
Johnson Theater. The public is invited to attend.

—E-mail your General Notes to tgrant@wlu.edu

F
PREGNANT...

AND FEELING
- ALONE?
WANT SOME
CHOICES TO
CONSIDER?

The
Nurturin
Network

 

 

RIOTS ROCK THREE COLLEGE CAMPUSES

Riots broke out at three universities the weekend of May 2 due to
new university policies on alcohol.

Students reacted to a ban on drinking at a popular campus site by
starting bonﬁres and staging and out-of-control protest at Michigan State
University. Washington State University students threw rocks and beer
cans at police officers alter the ofﬁcers attempted to break up groups out-
side of local bars. Similar disturbances occurred at Ohio’s University of
Akron. Police arrested dozens of students for public drunkenness.

The insurrections are just a few in a growing trend of alcohol-related
problems facing college campuses across the nation. According to a
recent report, college alcohol arrests are up 10 percent from last year.
And a Harvard School of Public Health survey of 17,000 students indi-
cated that 84 percent drink regularly and 44 participate in binge drinking.

Alcohol~related deaths are on the rise, too. Five students died alco-
hol-related deaths last year alone in Virginia.

MY LAI REPORTER DIES

Ron Ridenhour, a soldier turned journalist who exposed the atrocities
in the 1968 My Lai massacre and went on to become an award-winning
investigative reporter, died Sunday. He was 52, and reportedly died of a
heart attack while playing handball.

CHILD TARGETS TEACHER AFTER ‘TIME-OUT’

A 5-year-old kindergarten pupil in Memphis, Tenn. was arrested after
bringing a loaded pistol to school because he wanted to kill his teacher
for punishing him with “time-out," according to police records. The .25-
caliber semiautomatic pistol, in the child's backpack, was conﬁscated by
teacher Margie Foster on Friday after another pupil brought her a bullet.

, FIRST LADY RECEIVES NASTY E-MAIL

Two high school seniors were suspended for ﬁve days after being
questioned about an e-mail sent to Hillary Clinton from a school com-
puter. The e-mail reportedly contained profanities and a comment that
could be interpreted as a threat. The two 18-year-olds were removed
from class on Wednesday by Secret Service agents. No charges were
ﬁled. Under federal law, anyone convicted of threatening to harm mem-
bers of the president's family faces up to three years in prison.

CONGRESS CONSIDERS NEW COINS

Congress is considering giving a new look to the dollar coin and the
quarter, starting in 1999. Issuing a new gold-colored dollar coin will save
government printing costs, because, with normal use, coins last about
30 years while dollar bills have to be replaced every 18 months. Con-
gress also approved a program to redesign the reverse side of the quar-
ter to honor each of the 50 states. Five states will be featured with new
quarters each year, starting with Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
Georgia and Connecticut.

, KEVORKIAN JAILED

Dr. Jack Kevorkian and an associate were jailed Thursday night after
allegedly scufﬂing with police ofﬁcers who had pulled Kevorkian over
to ask about a corpse in the back seat of his car.

—Source.' AP Wire and FDIC Consumer Newsletter

IIPIIRTMENT FOR RENT

froollorrt location
.3’ Bedrooms

lllioroworo
FOR MORE INFORMATION,
CALL 463-7690

Lexington, Virginia

Comfortable and affordable, the Econo Lodge at
Lexington is conveniently located at the Intersec-
tion of I-64 and US Highway 11, putting you close

to all the historical sights of this area.

Accommodations:

48 Attractive Guest Rooms with Scenic Mountain Views
ColorCab|e TV— Free ESPN and HBO

King Beds and/or Two Double Beds — Non—Smoking Available
Free Continental Breakfast; Free Local Phone Calls
Restaurants within walking distance

Attractions:

9 Natural Bridge — 16 miles

0 Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee University
0 VA Horse Center

0 Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

 

 

PAGE 6

ahitof Humor, Opinionand Reviews

BY KEVIN MClVlANI<MlN
TI-IE LooNEY BIN

ell, seniors, in a couple of weeks your school
days will ﬁnally be over. Then it’s off to the
workplace, where wacky and colorful
co-workers spend all day goofing off and playing
zany pranks on each other (as is my understanding
from television).
For those few unfortunate seniors who haven’t found
a job yet, don’t give up hope. There’s always the Marines.
I hear Parris Island is lovely this time of year. But, if boot
camp ain’t your cup of vodka, (this is W&L, no one drinks
tea) why not consider one of these non-traditional jobs:
shareoronner
If you enjoy being outside and working with your hands,
then this is the job for you. The hours are long, the work is
back-breaking, the pay is peanuts (literally) and there are
absolutely no beneﬁts. Also, you’ have to pay the land-
owner for the priviledge of famiing on his land.
Sharecropping — “because it ’s the only thing liberal
arts majors are qualiﬁedfor.”
roadie for Dhish
Uh, hey. We’re looking for some totally groovy ha ha ha
ha ha ha ha ha. Dude, get out of here with that, I’m trying to
type thisjob thingie. I’ll have a bowl with you later, man.
Promise. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. Oh, where was I. Right, we, like,
totally need some roadies to help us out with stuff. Duties
will include: 1) setting up mikes and stuff; 2) general bong
maintenance; 3) turning a hose on our audience when the
smell becomes too much (not too many of our fans bathe
regularly); 4) beating up reporters who insist on compar-
ing us to the Dead; 5) quick Doritos® runs when band

gets the munchies; 6) ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha; and,
7) making sure that nobody isn’t making bootlegs of
the show.

writer for “Baywatch”

Have you ever wondered what it would be like to be a
script writer for a popular television show? Can you read
and write at least a ﬁfth grade level? If you answered yes
to both questions, then you’re just the kind of person
we’re looking for. Send

last Wot
L AST M INUTE 3' OB PROSPECTS FOR SENIOR SLACKER5‘  

 

MAY 11, 1998 .,,. 1

little leniency on his retarded cousin Earl’s assault
charges. You’ll never have an idle moment, except of
course for the 23 hours a day you have nothing to do.
Who would have thought being a stereotype could be
this much fun?
New York City cab driver

‘*4 e-—"-e5- :3 2-“ Qleeéees tees tee etc” ee

é‘A;._-..=sGc..'c.‘.: iEI:4€.'3 3.-;_-.5. é..:.:_x _,_-..: cast.» C; 2.6;

:1J;_'n.:;* ‘£55, " I ‘ C. Q
 neg»; - ’.sJJ_  .

resume to Baywatch c/  9455:‘: at-., 34196;: 9 -Cruz.-._¢.
oS1l1coneProduct1ons, “DJ; QC; 9 $*‘§‘c LO) :J;_T‘€_A_: Cg  A.-.;:.;.:_-a E:  cit’
Hollywood, CA. . ‘ - . ‘ n I _ . . ‘ C-.__x_-._-. .1666 ..:s,~:_-..:. 5.-.36. ¢..

Secret Servioe 9 cu§—'>—~_- 5;; age‘. /\—->—=u«:s—- 5- 343.9.   ‘JG-C; o.-.5.-..

Are you good at
being shot at? If so,
why not take some bul-

¢._ 3.1.x C-5:..:.C_’

¢¢:.:, .:.:.at=._-._-. 3566 ;;.t_::. 
O L
“C

Arc.;L:_

. . .
43;

...;-

\=t=-eeeecic - "“-'»‘€-*3

lets with the best? Se-
cret Service duties in-
clude: 1) looking the other way when Bill is “entertaining”
the interns; 2) conﬁrming Bill’s stories to Hillary; 3) enforc-
ing the restraining order against Roger; 4) taking care of
Gore whenever he’s “feelin’ frisky;” 5) McDonald’s runs
when Bill gets the munchies; and, 6) occasional policy mak-
ing when Bill decides to “blow off work.”

The Secret Service -—— “it ’s safer than living in New
Jersey.”

fat southern sheriff

Join the brotherhood of the fat southern sheriffs and
help put the “K” in “korruption.” Who knows what’s next
in the fast-paced world of southern sherifftry? One day
you’re setting up speed traps to catch Yankees and the
next day you’re taking a bribe from the mayor to show a

ix  3.1;-
’ ’ sunerhero
Medium-sized metropolis needs
superhero to protect city from the schemes of evil geniuses
and/or monster attacks. Preferred skills include ability to
ﬂy, super strength, super speed, ability to project bursts of
energy from various body parts, witty banter and Microsoft
Excel and Power Point. Must supply own uniform, sidekick
and catchphrase. Pay is residuals from action ﬁgure sales.
MUTAN'IS NEED NOT APPLY.
senior citizen
Why get a job when you can just retire now? Requires
golf cart license, ability to go to bed at 8 p.m., and excellent
complaining skills. Must supply own out-of-style pants
and liver spots. To apply, fax resume to  fax? What the
hell is that? In my day we had the telegraph. Now there
was amachine. Click click clickity clack it would go, all day

Black Dog should be put to sleep

BY BRIANPRISOO

B-[MOVIE Ozrnc

y friends, I have done you a public service. I
know that some of you out there felt the de
sire, nay the need, to satisfy your curiosity to

Now, I like a good action ﬁlm as much as the next
guy. Sure, it’s nice to sit down and watch a trendy
dialogue ﬂick like Good Will Hunting or Swingers,
but deep down everyone loves to watch a good ass-
kicking ﬁlm where we can check our brain at the door.

Something with a lot of

go see what appears to be that
rompin-stompin movie Black 6 C
Dog. Well, I can save you ﬁve
dollars. Don’t even bother.
This movie screams
“townie” more than a monster
truck rally with an all-you-can-
eat shrimp bar. Patrick Swayze
stars as Jack Crews, an ex—con

I came to this ﬁlm expecting to see
some southern-fried whoop ass. Instead
I get Waiting to Exhale as performed
by the Truckers Repertory Theatre.

explosions, a lot ofmar-
tial arts and a lot of bla-
tant violence and cheesy
dialogue. Damn it, that’s
as American as apple
pie. But, this ﬁlm falls
short in that respect.
Most people claim

ex-truck driver who is tricked
into driving a load of assault
weapons from Atlanta to Newark or his wife and daughter
will be killed. Been there, done that, bought the twangy
record. The soundtrack is a Lexingtonian Christmas list.
The movie also stars Randy Travis, Meat Loaf and
Charles Dutton.

 

PATRICK SWAYZE embarrassing himself on screen in
the forgettable movie Black Dog. Pnoro COURTESY or UNI-
VERSAL PICTURES.

y

,9 that there is too much

violence and nudity in
movies. I don’t think this movie had nearly enough.
It comes off looking like a half-assed Dukes of
Hazzard. l’ve always been under the impression that
if you set out to make a tough guy action ﬁlm, it has to
be R-rated. You can’t get away with padded violence
and still claim to be a roughneck. v

Sure, Black Dog has some great vehicle stunts. It’s a
rare occasion where you see a car chase involving four
tractor trailers where a car-carrying truck falls off a cliff
and a truck cab smashes through a house on a ﬂatbed
truck. That’s right, a house on a ﬂatbed truck. There are
some spectacular crashes, but you get all the worthwhile
shots in the previews. The rest of the ﬁhn is full of this
family values garbage that’s not only boring, but really
inconducive to the plot.

I came to this ﬁlm expecting to see the Patrick Swayze
from Road House. I don’t know what he was thinking, but
he should stick to wearing dresses. I think this is his ﬁnal
movie, or rather should be. I’m sick of action movie stars
trying to be good family men. Be a daddy on your own time,
I want to see you kicking a little ass. I should mention that
the acting in this ﬁlm is not bad. Randy Travis is genuinely
enjoyable as Earl, the lovable truck driver come country
music warmabe.

The only worthwhile moments in this ﬁlm come from
the acting talents of Meat Loaf. That’s right, I said Meat
Loaf. I’ll take all the guff you want, but the man is a ﬁne

actor and picks appropriate roles for himself. He was
brilliant in Leap of]-“aith, and he is fantastic in this as a
bible—thumping gun smuggler with an affection for cou- ‘
pons. The most memorable moment ofthe ﬁlm is Meat '
Loaf chasing down Patrick Swayze and his family in a i

truck cab screaming biblical verses like, “Wait for the I 2

resurrection!”

I’m a simple man. All I ask is for some nudity and
blood. I don’t want sensitive male issues. I came to this
ﬁlm expecting to see some southern-fried whoop ass. j
Instead I get Waiting to Exhale as performed by the
Trucker’s Repertory Theatre. Do yourselfa favor. Wait i
until TNT picks this movie up and watch it late night. 

Do not waste your money.

 V following three circumstances:

long down at the old telegraph ofﬁce. That’s where me
and Vera Lynn made out for the ﬁrst time. It was just -
before I left to ﬁght in the war. Can’t recall which war, but
damned ifit wasn’t loud.

To: the__reader@phi.com
From: the_editor@backpage . org
Subject: broadcast mailer

“this message was distributed
by the broadcast. mailer at W&L**

The following is an announce-
ment to those organizations that
insist on sending bulk e-mails i
to the students via the broad-
cast mailer. CUT IT OUT! We're
sick and tired of opening up our
e-mail accounts only to find them
littered with messages about semi-

_ nars on corporate banking, ten-

 nis tournaments, poverty programs
and other things we couldn't give I )1‘
half a flaming 5*“ about. i

we'd like to propose that broad-
cast mail only be sent out in the

i 1) Classes are canceled due to
inclement weather and/or nuclear
‘holocaust.

2) The dead have risen and are
registering for classes, so hurry.
up before the spots are filled.

3) A monkey theater troupe is

,coming to town.

i Next time your office has an ‘
announcement about a lecture on
chartered accountancy, a concert

by the electric bagpipe and tim-
pani orchestra of Glasgow, the ‘I
NCAA division 5 1/2 Bocce Ball
tournament, or any event held in

I the GHQ, please keep your e-mail

v to yourselves. Unless it concerns 7
nuclear holocaust, the dead ris-
ing or monkey drama, we don’t
want to hear it.

1

 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

 isQoHege Night
ltd are Light

1

$2.00

  

~=a_ ‘A   4.
CD Is there life aft
05 CD Net—shy? Webpages aren’t as

  

. J‘

er Seinfeld

(I) Balsley finds beer around
every corner.
CD Elrod defends student

 

SPORTS

 

Spring sports
V wrap up:
Generals see the end
of a successful

 

1‘ . autonom . '
scary as you think. Y Spring‘
PAGE 3 PAGE 2 pAGE 4
U
‘ , . BulkRaie
Usplzsgge
Washington and Lee University 1 [ Monday
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 23 MAY 187 1998

Y D b h

81 I  t

it Couches burn, kegs fly and locals cause
chaos at this year’s music bonanza
BY HOLLIS“.-R HOVEY around 30 to 35 miles an hour,”

9‘ é———ExI«:cUTivE EDITOR Sevigny said. “People started

Beer ﬂowed, couches burned, and throwing kegs, chairs and every-
a townie went home with his car de- thing they could find. By morning
stroyed - just more of the same at we saw bits of his car all over

X Rockbridge County’s little annual Zollman’s.’’

’ Woodstock, the Buffalo Creek Mu- Last year a townie destroyed his
sic Festival. own car after getting in a ﬁght with

Students surprisingly remained his wife. The man returned to this
arrest-free throughout the duration year’s Buffalo Creek for even more

44* ofthe festival, in spite oflocals who fun. One sophomore encountered
caused chaos early Sunday morn- him near her campsite, “The guy
ing. said, ‘Hi, my name is Moondog and

“There was a random townie driv- I really need some grass.” she said.

N’ ing up ‘and down in a Chevette or “He was with his 10-year old son
Yugo-like thing spinning and almost and his wife. It was the same guy
crashing into everyone’s cars,” who attackedhis car last year.” _

Chuck Sevigny Said‘ “Then he took other locals also had their way  I;.1EE cSi')lgUDE}lI‘lTSI?ELAX I: Bujzglo Creek while the Buffalo Creek Music Festival unfolds behind them. T he festival hosted such
. . . . 0 san v .
a pass at some people, and every- at the Chi Psi camp site.‘ ‘‘I’d just ‘D ery mg OLUSTER OVEY XECUHVEEDWOR
onestrtdk'k' h’ .S f'hdffhk f ' is -> . a .

W threw: goleipoifnigm :)snci::rH::i;::: niirgilst ien aomvtv velhggl o;Stsl;edsoel::to,n: callstthe couch burning an annual I didn t hear the bands, all I_ It was wonderful to let the water around nine o’clock and sent almost
talking Smack and dro-ve Off A Chipsi freshman Saidp“B rthe time evc:/imst of th k d d.d hefard were car stereosblaring, and carry medown the river, but it wasa everyone to theircars. Another
bunch of people went to ﬁnd him I woke up townies h.ad {mmt our r ‘t e wee en hl snot so as burning in fires, ‘he said. The bumpy ride towards the end,” she storm hit early that morning.
and mu his car.” living roorhzcouch to nothin Ste‘ E ove qui -e as excitinghas t e uri- alcohol did get warm in the nearly said. ' I have several bruises from Despite the wildly fluctuating

4 The students told the man he had len our kegs keg taps chaii and dfznllfnxgzrimngl anlilcls, dowel/fer. cl 9f)-degree temperatures Ofsaturday hmmg the rocks at the bottom.” weather’ some people enjoyed the
ﬁve minutes to leave Zoumanvs be‘ Cooler ” , , to glee ‘rm a co be an wlas orce a‘ ternoon. Students ﬂocked to the The weather made auturn for the weekend for other reasons. “It was
fore they would trash his automm Many of the fraternities burnt drunk Eolljjft carh ecarise i1/lvas too river to cool off. Two-day camper worse around dinner time Sunday definitely not the beach, but the
bile. “He Started tearing through their own Couches Ka a Sioma Ta 1 R .lrive ogie, sop omore Lora Ellison enjoyed her refreshing when the first ofthree storms hit the hamburgers weren’t bad,” vegetar-

- PP D Y 0T U1 0V3 S31 - V ride down the Buffalo Creek rocks. area. The second downpour came ian Jen Fisher said.
*.
I
CO S SE ' CU rass
V BY TARAH GRANT afraid to let his children play in his ing a phone call interview, the resi-
—-?-?—- Exnoomvr FDlTOR yard after he saw two snakes emerge dents of206 refused to comment on
Can you see your feet as you from the lawn of206 and enter his. the situation and hung up.
walk through your frontlawn? lfnot, The neighbor killed one of the Officer R.D. Clark visited two
_, you better cut your grass. An ob- snakes, but the other retreated back other student houses this week for
' scure ordinance in the Lexington to 206. section 18-9 violations, 308 East
City Code brought police officers to Haraway went to 206 to investi~ Washington Street and 1l3 Diamond
at least three student houses over gate the complaint. “l’ve been here Street.
the past week. three years and I’ve never seen Senior Dan Rushing, a resident
i City residents must maintain their something so blatant as this case,” of308, said that he mowed his lawn
lawns and keep weeds under 15 Haraway said. Most ofthe lawn was in “eightminutes” after Officer Clark
inches in height, according to Ar- six to seven inches tall, and there knocked ’on their door 8:30 a.m.
ticle ll, Section 18-9 ofthe city code. were spots in the back and along the Thursday and said that the city
Usually, violations of the ordi- sides of the house that were over 1 would bill them $1,000 to cut the
T nance are uncommon. The police do 1/2 feet tall, Haraway said. lawn if they didn’t, according to
not get involved unless a lawn is in- Haraway informed the students Rushing.
fested with snakes or rats and/or the about the ordinance and told them “Wejust forgot about it, but we’ll
neighbors complain, according to that they had to have the lawn cut definitely make sure it stays short
... Officer Keith Haraway. by Thursday or, in accordance with the rest ofthe year,” said Rushing,
On Wednesday, Haraway re- the city code, either public works or who plans to cut the lawn one more
ceived a phone call complaint about a private contractor chosen by the time before he graduates.
206 North Randolph Street, the city would cut the lawn and submit Officer Haraway advised students
. home of seniors Claudia Arcuri, a bill to the owner ofthe property. to check their rental contracts to see
1 Anson Long, Ryan McWilliams and The lawn was cut by the end of if the landlord or the tenants are re-
 ‘ Lindsay Wood. A neighbor was Haraway’s shift on Thursday. Dur- sponsible for lawn maintenance.
Just what we need more lawyers
-N’

C

On a beautiful spring afternoon, law students gather on the Front Lawn to celebrate their graduation from
the Washington and Lee School of Law. Friends and family look on as the newest masters of the law receive
their diplomas. H OLUSTER H OVEY/EXECU77VE EDITOR

Freshman woman arrested
for public drunkenness

BY PoLLY Doio

NEWS EDITOR

A freshman woman was arrested
early Thursday morning for public
drunkenness, following an incident
on the Baker—Davis-Gilliam quad.

According to witnesses, Chris-
tine van den Toorn, of Sperryville,
Va., began screaming obscenities in
the freshman quad in an apparent
response to taunts from male fresh-
men.

Van den Toom was confronted by
Washington and Lee Security, and
urged to return to her domi. She re-
fused and continued to shout ob-

scenities and, at one point, climbed
up on the wall in front ofthe Graham-
Lees dormitory, only to be pulled
down by a friend.

“Security called us over there
because a bunch of students were
screaming and yelling across the
quad,” said Lexington Police Officer
Michael Hess. “Ms. van den Toorn
was pointed out as being one who
had been asked several times to go
back inside, and who had refused.”

Hess approached van den Toorn,
smelled alcohol, and discovered that
she was only 18 years old. Upon

questioning, van den Toom stated L

that she had come from a sorority
function at the Volcano Restaurant
and Bar.

According to Hess, when he be-
gan to fill out a summons for under-
age consumption of alcohol, van
den Toom began screaming
obsenities directed toward Hess.

“At this point I decided that ob-
viously the alcohol had more effect
on her than I had thought, and so
instead of writing a summons, lar-
rested her for DIP," said Hess.

Van den Toom declined to com-
ment. A trial date has been set for June
30th.

3

6

2
l

I 4%
.. .x..  amt. ~

LETTING THE GRASS get too long could constitute a violation of the Lexington "Good Neighbor" ordinance, as
the residents of] I 3 Diamond street found our early Friday morning. HOLLISTER HOVEY/EXECUTIVE EDITOR

 

 

PAGE 2

MAY 18, 1998

Parting is such
sweet sorrow

Well everyone, this is it — our last is-
sue of the year. We want to go home. We
want to stay awake in class on Monday.
We don’t want to wake up in the middle
of the night having anxiety sweats, fear-
ing that we messed up Talkback.

Yes, We’re selfish. You could even
have the nerve to say that we’re being
lazy. We don’t care. We had to resort to
news of Lexington mowing laws and
naked townies. The year is winding
down and you surprisingly are behav-
ing fairly well. No one was even arrested
at Buffalo Creek!

We know that all Hell will break loose
by orientation, though, and we’ll be back
with a vengeance. We plan to add wider
coverage of sports, and to the delight of
many, and a weekly athlete and regular
person profile. We have more top secret
ideas, but we want to surprise you. We
can’t give the opposition an unfair advan-
tage, either.

Speaking of the opposition, this ridicu-
lous rivalry between The Trident and the
Phi must end. Neither of us should care
what the other does. At times it seems
we’ve been thrown into some Pulitzer/
Hearst rivalry. There is absolutely no need
for the competition, or more importantly,
the attacks.

We come out on Monday on big paper.
The Trident comes out on Wednesday on
little paper. No one pays for either. No
one has to read or enjoy either. If youlike
one better, then no one cares if you read
the other.

Basically, the attacks are pointless.

We’re over 100-years-old, and will con-
tinue to come once a week. The Trident
will continue to put out every Wednes-
day. Neither of us is going away.

If anything, we need to stand together
and fight for the good of the school and,
most specifically, the poorly funded de-
partment we call the J-school.

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Andrea Ewing

Executive Editors

Associate Editor

Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&life Editors Ginger Phillips

Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin MeManemin

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor

Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco

Jill Jamieson
Steven Klotz

Business Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540)462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.ea'u
http://wlu. edu/~phi

 

America makes noise
about Seinfe|d’s Farewell

“So what’s the big deal? Another television program
said goodbye to the small screen. They do it every year.”
Indeed they do, but while some shows enter our homes
for thirty minutes a week, others decide they would rather
stick around in our hearts for a generation or two.

Who has never seen, or at least heard, of the candy

factory, grape squashing, Harpo Marx or
Vitameatavegimin

episodes? Who can  ——~———-————
repress a smile at the '  I-ﬁg 

  

thought of Sammy
Davis, Jr., hitting
Archie with a big A
smack-a-roo in front of the Bunker family camera? How
could anyone but Hawkeye, Hot Lips, Klinger, Radar and
the crew make America laugh in the face of napalm? When
you hear the name “Woody,” who comes to mind?
Sometimes the writers give us shows, whether we per-
sonally like them or not, that leave a mark on American
society that is not easily wiped away. Thursday night mil-
lions of Americans gathered to watch the ﬁnal episode of
a program that proved the epitome of the “water cooler
show,” or if you prefer, the “coffee maker show.”
For nine remark-
C C

able seasons Jerry
While some shows

Seinfeld and his
quirky friends as-
enter our homes for ‘°““ded 0"’ SW65
thirty minutes a week,
others decide they

of humor, decency,
would rather stick ..

propriety, normal-
ity, etc. Some of us
around for a generation
or two.

liked it. Some cer-
tainly did not.
Nevertheless, the
Seinfeld generation
is changed forever.
Millions, who ‘were
product fans to begin with, now have strange cravings
for a New York marble rye, a cinnamon bobka or a
Drake’s Coffeecake. You know that old blouse mom has
in the closet with the frilly, lace cravat? Does anyone
else now refer to it as “The Puffy Shirt”? Even the alu-
minum industry cannot avoid the impact of Castanza.
Children everywhere are restraining, with great feats
of strength, not to get overly anxious about
theanticipated Festivus celebrations that get under way
this December 23. Speculators predict a sharp rise in
aluminum pole sales. And certainly no one can deny
that pretzels really do make you thirsty.

So if America made a big deal about the ﬁnal epi-
sode of Seinfeld, then good for America. Four charac-
ters, matched by no others in total insanity, entered our
society nine years ago, yada yada yada, and it will never
be the same. Whether it will be better, worse or nei-
ther, who cares?

xi Stephen Pesoe ’O1

'5 Y
.-..5..._

never big bread"

'_::s:.i-ext:

 

“l’m going to be a nanny for
a small Bahamian family.”

—-Jason Nichols ’00

A letter to the

To the Student Body:

There has been much discussion in the student press
thisspring about student self-governance. ln editori-
als, articles and letters to the editor, students have ex-
pressed worry that student self-govemance is losing
prominence at Washington and Lee. Iwrite to express
my own views on this subject.

It is important for all students to understandthat
the principle of student self-governanceiis supported
by the trustees, the administration and the faculty. All
three affirm the educational importance, of this prin-
ciple and its prominence in student life at Washington
and Lee. Indeed, just thisyear, it has been strongly“
endorsed in the recent report from the Commission
on Student Self-Govemance. I encourage every one
of you to read this very important report, as it clearly.
re-articulates a strong University commitment to this
principle. I fully support this report and its recomrnen-I
dations regarding the strengthening of studentﬂself-~
governance at Washington and Lee. ”

Student self-govemance is notan empty principle
here. The student Executive Committee enjoys full
responsibility for the honor system and reports dhbcﬂy 3
to the Board of Trustees. The Student Judicial Cout1- -

. cil continues to exercise enormous authority over stu-
dent disciplinary matters falling outside the honor sys-

the Executive Committee in reporting to the Boardiof. 
Trustees at each of its’ three annual meetings.‘ The '
Interfraternity Council and the Panhellenic Council
exercise vast control over the operations of the Greek‘
system at Washington and Lee. Beyond these four im-
portant judicial bodies, student authority_ext_ends toy
 the management of life in the residence halls; regula-,j
I tion of an enormous budget funding a wide range"of‘*
student organizations andactivities; and full respon-
sibility for the MockiConvention and Fancy Dre$s.,:',e~
Students also exercise complete managerial authority’ 2
over student literary andjoumalistic publications, and )
through CONTACT strongly impact the co-eurricu-
lar program of the University. , ‘ ,
lam confident that there are few,lif any, colleges
and universities in the land that place such a strong
value upon the principles of student self~governance
and its incorporation into the daily life of the campus
community. ‘ I
If there exists a threat to student self-governance‘,
it lies principally in the tendency among some sun
dents to confuse the freedom you enjoy in managing g
you own affairs with license. That is, student self-go_,v-
ernance should not be viewed as an unfettered.riglit.
.. Rather, the freedom that is yours is a freedom that
« logically and morally connected with responsibilitygiii

President Elrod sends a message about student autonomy

‘ gentleman, and-they doubtlessly were often re-

 gpmony withthe principle of being a gentleman. Presi-
,de_nt Lee, recognized very clearly that not having
5 regulations would succeed only if students lived in-

tem, and now its president has joined the president of .” ‘
ing the very same challenge. The more successful you

, are at living lteely by accepting your obligations to

" live and govern yourselves according to the values of /

President, Lees expectation that students live accord-

{iing to the principle did not prevent him from disciplin-
7 ing students who failed to understand what Washing-
} fton College was all about.) t

-V regulations and complex committee structure surround» » I
., ing student life. No one wants the Washington and Lee.
, community/to become a bureaucratic tangle of regula-
, tions and committees encroaching on every aspect of
‘ complicated, and the reportlon student self-govemance
keep it simple by recognizing the centrality of our core

with If we can succeed in these terms, we will

You have the freedom that you do to manage your , ; ~ 

student body

own affairs precisely because the trustees and the fac-
ulty have given you the responsibility to govern your-
selves according to the noble principles upon which
the University is founded; It is this expectation; it is
this responsibility; it is this “duty,” Robert E. Lee would
say, that makes you tree. Being free in this sense stems
from accepting an obligation to govern yourselves ac-
cording to the principles of honor, civility, respect, etc.

Living and governing yourselves according to these
principles creates the caring community of trust which
we all so dearly love. Living freely in this way helps
us steer clear of creating an overregulated community
that is weighted down by dozens of bureaucratic rules
and committees. Robert E. Lee is now remembered for
having done away with the rules that governed student
life. He not only eliminated rules; be also imposed
an: obligation on each student to live as a gentle-
man.,‘Students knew exactly what itimeant to be a

minded by President Lee that reducing the number
of rules carried with it the obligation to live in har-

dividually inlharrnony with this principle.
Nothing has changed today; we ﬁnd ourselves fac-

our community, the less regulation we will have from
the trustees, the faculty and the hill. (I might add that

W 7 Our goal rnust be to perpetuate a strong tradition of
self-governance and, where possible, to simplify the .

our lives:  judicialiprocedures are already overly
wisely calls for their simpliﬁcation.) It is far better to
values and living and governing yourselves in harmony

enjoyjand be ediﬁed by living in a healthy and caring
community of trust, and student self-governance will
thrive as never before.

2 I I ” I I " ’ Sincerely,
John W. Elrod
President

 

‘‘I’m going to lnnsbrook, Austria to
study music and history.”

-—Mary Elizabeth Whipple ’00

C C Q,/"‘*~«.,,h
 uote of the Week:
Question Authority

— VMI student’s bumper sticker.

77

 S.  i What are you going to do this summer?

“Who knows?”

—David Butler ’98

 

ll 23':  

 

Beer invades Lex!

ljust learned that the Lexington Revco sells beer.

Maybe this doesn’t strike you as odd. It seems strange
to me. I had never seen beer in a Revco before last Sun-
day, when, on my ﬁrst trip to said establishment, l dis-
covered an enormous blue-and-yellow stack of Corona
cases standing next to a smaller display oftootr-paste. My
concept of Revco was shattered. For me, Revco was al-
ways the place to buy personal hygiene products, candy
and trashy maga-
zines, but not too
much else. So it
struck me as funny
when the lady in
front of me in line
left the store with mascara and a sixer of Coors.

My discovery lead me to think about all the places in
Lexington where beer is sold. I had thought of Lexington
as a small town with a rich historical tradition, a comer of
Virginia that gets real quiet on Sunday evenings. l’m start-
ing to wonder, however, if Lexington isn’t all those things
and more. Maybe Lexington is also the town where beer
is sold nearly everywhere.

For what it’s worth, l’ve compiled a list of28 places in
Lexington where beer is sold. I consider this to be a work
in progress, so if l’ve left a name offthe list, please con-
tact the Phi to let me know. Here it is:

 

 Red Brick Row
 ,...4»’ David Balsley 99

_..>4...

Blue Heron G W illaker ‘s The Sheridan-
Cafe Harb ’s Livery Inn
Canton Chinese Harris Teeter Southern Inn
Restaurant Hunan Garden Spanky 's
Digger ’s ll Palazzo The Staircase
East Lex The Inn at Stop In
El Puerto Union Run Super Wal-Mart
Food Kroger ’s Volcano
Euphorium Maple Hall W illson- Walker
F ranco ’s The Palms H ouse
Frank's Italian Revco Woods Creek
Eatery Salerno ’.s' Grocery

 

“l’m going to be a receptionist in
a hotel in Hungary.”

—Eszter Pados ’00

R l

U

‘-l

 

  

I Y 18, 1998

  
   
   
    
  
 

j Y ERICA PRoesi~:R

PHFEAIURES EDITOR
Lots of Washington and Lee students have webpages.
Some are simple (name, address, resume, plea for work),
‘ » while others are more complex (incriminating photos, sense-
ess commentary, you get the idea). This is a little story
_ about one webpage: how it began, what it has endured
and how people outside the W&L community have re-
I ceived it.
I’m a dedicated Disney fan, for starters. It was No-
"vember 1997, and I had just begun planning a trip to Walt
Disney World for April break. I was surfing Disney
A websites when I came upon Badger’s Disney Countdown
’Page. This page gives out an award called the Gold
isneynut. Only the most die-hard fans could earn it, and
earn it, one had to have a
-webpage. I wanted that little gold
-peanut with the Mickey ears. So I
ecided I needed a webpage.
Creation was easy; I got my
mitts on a copy of Adobe Pagemill
' 2.0, which makes webpage design
as easy as writing a paper. Of
‘course, I had no idea what I
'«was doing, but it looked nice. I
still can’t program very well in
HTML (the webpage language,
or the computer illiterate), but
’m getting better. Anyway, I
slapped together a page, com-
plete with nice pictures, and put
I" it on the Net.
Now I needed to think: What could I do with my page
to make it special? I created a voting page for Disney’s
cutest couple. I put up a trivia contest with a real prize (a
9 Disney Store gift certiﬁcate, paid for out of my pocket).
, Then came the real challenge. I wanted to win awards for
having a cool page.
__ I applied for the Gold Disneynut first, and I got it.
Then, I hopped from site to site, applying for awards all
over the place. I got most of them, and now I have a total of
' seven proudly displayed on the page. I also joined a ban-
_‘ ner exchange, a web ring and four Disney-affiliated groups.
I even “rated with RSACi.” (Everyone rates with RSACi.
It’s the family-friendly benchmark of the lntemet.) I put up
a counter from Liberty, and when that went down in April
I998, I got a shiny new Java counter that works most of the
time. Then I sat back and waited; the fans would come.
Sure enough, they came, and in droves. The contest
brought in roughly 100 entries each month, even though
he questions were often tough. The vote for cutest couple
was also a hit. And as I added more goodies to the page, I
got more and more suggestions from fellow fans. Isoon
V created my own elite Disney award and let other pages
. apply for it (I’m so picky that out of about 20 entries, only
- handful of people have actually earned the award).
When I started planning my April Disney vacation, I
put up a full trip planning guide and journal. At Christmas
and Valentine’s Day, I added seasonal pages (the Christ-
mas page even included a cookie recipe). The latest counter,
'ust added on April 25, had already tallied almost 1,800 hits
y May 15. But just when everything seemed successful
and cosy, things began to get interesting (what a surprise).
First came the e-mails from people planning trips to
Walt Disney World. Honeymooners asked for advice on

  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
    

  

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

  

what to do that was romantic. Families asked about what
to do on ﬁrst-time visits. People from as far away as Aus-
tralia were writing for tips on Disney vacations. I was fast
becoming a reluctant guru, and it didn’t end there. The
Spanish guys were the ﬁrst sign of a loss of control.

The Spanish guys were four Spanish citizens who
were planning to spend the summer in Orlando. They had
seen my website, decided I was an important person, and
e-mailed me, asking for jobs in the Orlando area for the
summer. I wrote back politely that I don’t live in Orlando, I
don’t have any jobs to give, but thanks for stopping by.

Soon after the Spanish guys came the Mexican artist.
He was a graphic design student from Mexico who asked
in garbled English for me to help him get ajob at the Disney
studios. I told him I couldn’t help him, but that I wished
him luck. This was getting weird; somehow, people
were getting the idea that I had some pull with the

Disney Company, with which I’m not even afﬁli-
ated (as the website says). Things weren’t quite
done there, either.

Finally, I got an e-mail from atravel agency. I
have a small listing of Disney-friendly travel
agents on my page, and this agency was inter-
ested in joining that list. The e-mail, a rather for-
mal and polite affair, asked how an agency could
be featured on the page. I wrote back just as
politely and told the agency that I had added
it to my list. It was that simple,
and I’m sure they’re happy now.

This onslaught of fans, job
hunters and businesses made
me wonder: Should I do something
with this newfound fame?

“Sell advertising space,” my mom suggested. “If the
site is that popular, charge people to be linked on it.” A
good idea, except I don’t know the first thing about con-
ducting real business over the Net (ordering from the
Disney Online Store doesn’t count). I don’t have a virtual
bank account, and I don’t know how to access funds from
people who do. Besides, the only really commercial aspect
of the site is the travel agent part, and I’d already been
listing several agencies absolutely free for months. Now
what? Someday, I’ll consult some web-savvy people to
find out what to do with this hotbed of interest. Until then,
why make your own page?

The moral of the story is that webpages are cool, for
starters. They can take some time, but it’s time well spent,
and it’s actually a lot of fun. If you build the page around
something that interests other people (say, a particular
celebrity, group, movie or entertainment empire), people
will visit. If you actively seek out things like awards and
affiliations, you’ll get more hits on your page. And if you
keep it up, people will regard you as an expert, even if
you’re not. You can’t beat fame like that!

Best of all, though, you might actually help some
people. My favorite e—mail ever was from a woman right
here in Virginia who is a physical therapist in a nursing
home. She said that she uses the Internet as a therapy
tool; people who have trouble even moving feel like they
can go anywhere when they’re on the Net.

She continued that she discovered my website while
surﬁng one day, and now she takes her patients to my site
whenever possible. She said that my webpage is not only
fun for the patients to navigate, but that it also makes them
smile. I can’t think of a better reward than that.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

Spring

1749

   

Ill

   
  
 

     
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  

Kick

CELEBRATION

 

Thursday, May 21, 1998
4:30 - 7:30 p.m.
Colonnade

(rain site -
Musical Performance by
“Snake Oil Medicine Show”

Pavilion)

  

W&life

Picture yourself on the Net

‘CD Making a webpage is an adventure, but not that scary

, Vandelay to impress the women, but his

PAGE 3

The end of the 1998 season of the Washington and
Lee Theatre Department is truly a work of drama magic:
a sort-of modern twist on a very well-known oldie.

The theater department will present William
Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night at 8 p.m. on Friday, May
22, Saturday, May 23 and Monday, May 25. The show
will also be performed on Sunday, May 24 at 2 p.m. The
basic story will remain the same, but guest director Brian
Desmond has chosen to modernize the presentation by
setting the play in the 1920s.

“The play has a kinship with the ‘Roaring Twen-
ties, he said. “It was a decade characterized by many
excesses.”

Twelfth Night is a story of confusion, excess and
deception. Viola and her twin brother, Sebastian, are ship-
wrecked off the coast of the imaginary land of Illyria,
each believing the other has died. Viola disguises her-
self as a man, calls herself Cesario and goes to work for

COURTESY OF THE THEATER DEPARTMENT

Twelfth Night promises fun

COLIN TATE '01 and Erin Mullaney ’98 rehearse Twelfth Night. The show opens May 22 at 8 p.m. PHOTO

a local duke, Orsino. Orsino is in love with a wealthy
neighbor, Olivia, but Olivia is in mourning for her re-
cently deceased brother and wants nothing to do with
Orsino. Orsino sends Cesario (Viola) to woo Olivia for
him, but Olivia falls in love with Cesario instead. Cesario
(Viola), meanwhile, has fallen in love with Orsino. This
is only the beginning of the entertaining insanity that is
Twelfth Night.

Desmond sees the play as “a house party where no
one goes home.” _

“There is something sweetly sad, unsettling, even
bitter about the play,” he said. “Twelfth Night is about
love and grief, their pains and their pleasures, and how
the two emotions are often indistinguishable. It is, oddly
enough, both elegiac and manic.”

Tickets are on sale now for the production, which
will be in the Keller Theatre. For inforrriation or reserva-
tions, call the Lenfest Center Box Office at 463-8000.

—— compiled from staff reports

Life goes on after Seinfeld

BY KEVIN MCMANEMIN

THEIDONEYBIN

ow that Seinfeld has gone to that great VCR in the
sky, NBC’s monopoly on the Thursday night at 9

time slot is ﬁnished, and next season every major
network will be putting their strongest shows to compete
for those ratings.

Ofcn.use,rrw thatalltrepcpilarseinfeld characters
are out of work, they’ll probably be hunting forjobs among
those great electronic trash-heaps that we call the net-
works. We at the Phi managed to get some juicy Holly-
wood insider gossip about which Seinfeld characters will
be going on which shows. Read on and be amazed at how
easily our favorite actors avoid typecasting.

Puddy ' s Buddi e s

Elaine’s on-again off-again boyfriend
David Puddy joins the cast of Friends in
the NBC exec’s latest attempt to revive that
rapidly deteriorating show.

In one episode Phoebe, Joey and Puddy
spend all afternoon at the coffee shop try-
ing to count to ten. Then Chandler makes
a semi-witty wise crack and a reference to
a 705 TV show. And you thought Friends
couldn’t get any worse!

MAD ABOUT NEWMAN

Paul and Jamie ofMadAbout You are in
for trouble when they hire portly postal
worker Newman as their new nanny. In the
first episode Newman accidentally
switches the baby with a bag of mail and
little Buchman ends up flying parcel post to Tehran. Paul
and Jamie are furious until Newman reminds them that if
the baby is damaged in shipping, the Post Ofﬁce will buy
them a new one.

Babu and Order

Hapless Pakistani immigrant Babu Bhatt is in way over
his head as the new Manhattan district attorney on the hit
show Law and Order. He loses his first case after offering
no evidence, no witnesses and no closing remarks other
than “he very bad man. Very bad man!”

Murderers and rapists get off scot — free almost as of-
ten as they do in our real legal system. You’d think he
worked for the Los Angeles District Attomey’s Office!

Costanza’s Place

George moves to Melrose Place to escape his parents
and wackiness ensues as the short, stocky bald man un-
successfully attempts to get laid. In the first episode he
poses as wealthy importer/exporter Art

zany plot falls through.

Watch George lie like a senator while
he tries to salvage his unraveling web of
deceit. It’s a nutty hour of madcap tom-
foolery!

((3/dine jzcﬁeaf

After being fired by J. Peter-
man for making fun of his new
Brazilian lemur-skin walking san-
dals, Elaine finds herself work-
ing at Ally McBeal’s law firm in
ajob yet to be determined by

the writers‘ ofMelrose Place.

 

PAUL REISER, Wayne Knight and Helen Hunt
try to save “Must See TV" in Mad About Newman.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

JASON ALEXANDER ﬁnds life after Seinfeld with the cast

In each episode Ally and Elaine sit around the office
whining about men and relationships, then they go home
and whine about men and relationships. One of them goes
on a date, whines to her date about how men can’t com-
mit, then comes home and whines about men and relation-
ships. Oh yeah, there’s something about lawyers and
courts and stuff in there too.

Worldjs Scariest Haircuts IV

Cosmo Kramer leads us through some of the seediest
barbershops and salons in New York in this latest pa-
thetic Fox “real life” TV special. Ever wonder what de-
mented barbers are responsible for Kramer’s hair?

Watch and find out — if you dare!

Uncle Leo , Texas Ranger

That lovable old Uncle Leo is back on TV as a butt—kick—
ing, karate-chopping,
gun-toting, to-
bacco-chawing
Texas Ranger. He

geriatric division of
the Texas Ranger,
busting up battery-
shoplifting rings.
Morty Seinfeld and
his neighbor Jack
Klompas star as his
deputies.

“I sold raincoats
for41 years . . . you
think I don’t know
how to handle a
shotgun?”

ﬂ0uCA2J  Codlanzaa

After they’re killed in a freak Marble Rye accident, Frank
and Estelle Costanza are brought back to earth as angels.
Their mission: to counsel couples on the brink ofdivorce
and save their marriages.

Here’s a sample script:

Wife: Well, he never wants to try anything new.
Estelle: Husbands don’t like to try new things. Like new
sweaters.
Frank: THIS IS MY FAVORITE SWEATER!
Estelle: YOU’VE WORN IT FOR THIRTY YEARS! BUY
A NEW ONE!
Frank:NEVER!
Husband: You know, on second thought, our marriage really
isn’t in that much trouble. Please, we won’t get divorced if
you promise to never come back!
Frank: Hoochie-mama!
l|r. (Quinn, Soup Nazi

Afterthe West’s first malprac-
tice case robs Dr. Quinn of her
license, she’s forced to open a
soup kitchen to make ends
meet.

Every week it’s an hour of
the irate Quinn yelling “no
soup for you” at hungry
cowboys, again and
again and again.

Tragically, this
makes it by far the

most entertaining

show on CBS.

. 9. 

   

 

works for the special ~

 

!Women’s coaches

"claim ODAC honors

Women ’s lacrosse coach Jan Hathorn and women ’s tennis
coach C inda Rankin voted [998 ODAC coaches of the year

CINDA RANKIN

Women ’s Tennis

 

BY FRAN<::s GROBERG

SPORTS EDrroR

Coach Cinda Rankin’s office is ﬁlled with inspi-
ration. Pictures of smiling victors in tennis skirts
holding various plaques cover every level surface,
and the plaques in the pictures line one wall. Her
bulletin board sports quotations on colorful pieces
of paper highlighting the relationship between the
will to win and success.

Yet probably the most important inspirational
message in the entire office is tucked away in the
corner. There, ﬂashing in Generals’ blue and white
across her computer, is a screen saver with a simple
message: “Win the last point!”

Rankin attributes much of her success to that
phrase and the attitude it projects, including re-
cently being named ODAC Coach of the Year for
the seventh time. The Generals finished this sea-
son 13-4 and were advanced all lost in the
quarterfinals of the NCAA tournament.

Ask her about her own accomplishments, how-
ever, and she will speak only of her players. “The
girls win the award for the coach. I don’t win the
award,” Rankin said. “They are ﬁghters  no, they
are competitors, and they give their best —— that’s
all I ever expect. It’s not a matter of winning or
losing.”

Winning may not be what really matters to

Rankin, but she’s certainly had her share of victo- .—

ries. Boasting a career record at Washington and
Lee of 178-32, her dominant teams have won nine
ODAC Championships and have placed in the
NCAA tournament six times since the founding of
the team in 1989.

“When we started [women’s tennis at W&L],
there was really no one to look up to as far as
women’s sports were concerned. That first team
looked instead to the men’s [tennis] program, which
dominated in the 1980s.”

One of the posters hanging in Rankin’s ofﬁce
sports the aerial view ofa tennis court, with tennis
balls strewn to each corner. Under the photograph,
above the Nike “Swoosh,” is yet another simple
phrase describing Rankin’s coaching philosophy:
“There is no ﬁnish Iine.”

“I want to give my players a good experience,”
she said. “I want them to look back on their sea-
sons here long after they leave Washington and
Lee with fond memories not only of success, but
of friends and fun. This is what I would like to
continue to do as long as I am a coach here.”

It seems there is no finish line for Rankin, as she
will return next year for another promising season
as the coach of W&L women’s tennis.

 

JAN HATHORN

Women ’s Lacrosse

 

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

SPORTS EDITOR

Any way you look at it, women’s lacrosse coach
Jan Hathom has had nothing but success at Washing-
ton and Lee in the past 10 years, and has built winning
programs in both women’s lacrosse and soccer.

Hathom’s latest achievement is 1998 ODAC
Coach of the Year for women’s lacrosse, her fourth
such award. Her Generals had an unbelievable year,
ﬁnishing 13-3 and qualifying for the NCAA touma-
ment for only the second time in school history.
This season also saw the Generals post a perfect 10-
0 mark in conference play, capture their third ODAC
tournament championship and down arch-rival

Roanoke College twice. Hathom also reached an .

impressive milestone by picking up her 100th career
victory in only her 10th season at W&L.

“It was a wonderful season,” Hathom said. “I’m
very proud of the girls; this season was all that you
could ask for.”

Hathom has directed the program since its be-
ginning in the spring of 1988. Under I-Iathorn, the
team has enjoyed nine consecutive winning sea-
sons after a 7-8 record in the program’s inaugural
season. The Generals won the ODAC tournament
in 1992, 1993 and 1998 and made NCAA tournament
appearances in 1993 and 1998. When asked why the
program has had so much success, Hathom was
quick to give credit to others.

“You’re only as good as the people you work with,”
Hathom said. “I’m in the right place with the right
people. A combination of a quality student athlete
who is motivated and someone who is as experienced
as I am make for awinning fonnula.” Hathom has built
a lifetime record of 105-51 in 10 seasons at W&L.

“The kind of young woman that I coach is a very
ambitious and hardworking student athlete,” added
Hathom. “And I really believe that if people respect
you and what you’re about and if you’re honest with
them, they’ ll pretty much do anything you ask of them.”

Hathom doesn’t only enjoy Success on the Lib-
erty Hall fields in the spring time, but in the fall as
well. Hathom has also headed the women’s soccer
team since its beginning in the fall of 1987. In the
fall, the Generals finished a record-setting 14-2, nar-
rowly missing the ODAC finals in a 2-1 double over-
time loss to Randolph-Macon. Hathom was named
ODAC Coach of the Year in women’s soccer in 1988
and 1996, and has compiled a record of 95-72-9.

“1 have to attribute a lot of my success to both
the support of the athletics department at W&L and
the quality of the young women that I coach,” said
Hathom. “I appreciate the kind of student that
comes here and I love the environment.”

sports

 

APARTMENT
FOR RENT

Excellent Location
3 Bedrooms
Microwave

FOR MORE
INFORMATION,
CALL 463-7690

HELP WANTED
Men and women earn
$375 weekly processingl
assembling Medical l.D.
Cards at home. Imme-
diate openings, your lo-
cal area. Experience un-
necessary, will train.
Call Medicard,
1-541-386-5290
Ext. 118M.

PREGNANT...
AND FEELING
ALONE?
WANT SOME
CHOICES TO
CONSIDER?

The Nurturing Network is dedicated to helping any
woman with an unwanted pregnancy give life to her
unborn child. We have specialized resources to meet
the practical needs of working and college women 
offering a real alternative  one which recognizes
your unique values, needs and circumstances.

A phone call to 1-800-TNN-4MOM can help you

give your child a future

without giving up on your own.

The
Nurturin
Network .

MAY 18, 1998

ODAC names conference
best in spring sports

Washington and Lee boasts 39 ODAC award winners this spring

WoMEN’s LACROSSE

First team

Mary Jo Mahoney, Sr. midﬁeld
Whitney Parker, Sr. midﬁeld
Lorraine Taurassi, Sr. midﬁeld

Second team
Kimmy Lubin, Jr. defense

 

WoMEN’s TRACK

First team
Meredith Mlynar, Jr.
Natalia Dorofeeva, Jr.
Kathleen Moroney, Fr.
Isaris Bonilla, Jr.
Lauren McKeever, S0.

Second team

  

BASEBALL Lisa Brennan, Jr.
First team
Christian Batcheller, So. outfield GOLF
Bob Weston, Jr. pitcher Fi7'Sl 1607?’!
Second team Rick Burrice, Jr.
E.J. Murphy, Jr. catcher T-1 Wagnera 30-
Lorraine Taurassi
MEN’s TRACK
First team
Omar Moneim, Jr.
Will Olson, Jr.
Greg Ruthig, Jr.

Second team

Marc Granger, So.
Jason Callen, Jr.

First team
Chris Haun, Fr.
Scott Babka, Jr.
Glenn Miller, Sr.
Kelly Radford, Fr.

MEN’s TENNIS

Colin Dougherty

MEN’S LACROSSE

Berry Blankinship

Brook Hartzell, So.
Christina Campbell, Fr.
Anne Castello, Fr.

Dave Lehman, Jr. F. I I

Tom Washbum, So. lr.S eam

Dale prema, jr_ Colin Dougherty, So. attack

Robb Greenfield, Sr. defense

W0MEN’s TENNIS Second team

First team Matt Dugan, Fr. attack
Ericka Sha ard Sr Ed Dougherty, Sr. midfield
Berry Blaniinsiﬁpg Sr. Pete lwancio, Fr. defense
Erin Eggers, So.

    
   
 
 
 
 
  

   

as 'a1§h§ImWn°¢d‘ih=1*..?7?F>¢°*¢733:.§$‘“it

Tait  of‘W8§L:ath1etici

 

J  lltllﬂt llltnilzt 
  Itittsi (tllltlz

  record

I 1 :3 Lee  Director  1;; g j V j .
 7 Additionally, ﬁvefof the students honored achieved
grade point averages o_f4.0 or higher. These students ~

o:ér+AtmereA’»iards.aurmg°~meswm-1A .     .
' ‘ ” I “ “     includedIJoe Bestic“, Sam Chase, Jason Callen, Giennl

in 922.22. atom

(09 set last year, V 

Mil1erandLaurain:Taurassi.

‘ ; {Members of eleven of W&L's 21 varsity athletic .
» "progI'ains*achieved‘ agteamggrade point average of at
,~1east.3.ooo, led byTtlie women's lacrosse team with a
j I 3.278; [The highest Irien's team grade point average was

menfs swimmingwitha3. 152.

  

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

Dllt£(Tl;D izmnn otsmu

 
 

   
  
  

1

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 1

Washington and Lee University

6  /00  

The Ring—tum Phi proudly celebrates its 100th anniversary this year. We take time to re-

flect on a century of journalistic excellence in this issue’s center spread.

PAGES 6 AND 7

Che Tiling-tum Iﬂlti

JAMES (.i.l.l:too;..~. - .. - ‘I’
WASHINGTON & LEE um»  H I «

6d/$

   

LEXINGTON. VA 21443»?

SEP 24 1997

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No 7
Lexington, VA

Monday
SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

“The Flat’
unayordoesnﬁ
like to party

(I)Residents claim Lex-
ington Mayor Buddy
Derrick had police
break up their parties
without due cause.

BY ERIC SWENSEN
‘WW STAFF V/VRJTER

Most Washington and Lee students
are familiar with the sight of
Lexington’s finest breaking up a
party. But how often do you see
the_ mayor of the town breaking up
a party?

It happened Friday and Saturday,
Sept. 5-6, to the tenants of 109 W.
Nelson St., otherwise known as “The
Flat,” which is owned by Mayor H.E.
“Buddy” Derrick wife and his wife,
Martha Lou.

Martha Lou runs the College Town
Shop lbcated below The Flat.

The problems began that Friday
when Mrs. Derrick, saw seniors

{‘ Erik Christ and Aaron Michalove

taking four cases of beer upstairs to
the apartment.

According to Christ, one of the
apartment’s tenants, Mrs. Derrick re-

,4 minded him and Michalove that

kegs were not allowed in the apart-
ment and asked if a party was be-
ing held that night.

“I told her we were having people
over,” Christ said.

Around 1 a.m., Lexington Police
Officer Keith Harroway pulled up to
the apartment.

“ “He had no reason to pull up since

there was no noise from The Flat au-
dible on the street,” Flat resident Doug
Hesney said.

According to Hesney, Harroway

~51 told him and his roommates that Der-

rick had ordered the police to patrol
for parties at 109 W. Nelson St.

The Flat was given a warning,
but no noise violation was issued

‘ that night

There had been no problems at the
apartment since 1994, when a spilled
keg caused approximately $20,000
worth of damage to the College Town

. Shop, Hesney said.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce M.

Beard says that 109 W. Nelson St. was

learns

not singled out by Derrick, but that
the police were instructed to be on the
lookout for parties "anywhere they
weren’t supposed to be.” That in-
cluded most apartments in Lexington,
Beard said.

Derrick, after receiving a call from
the police department, arrived at The
Flat around 2:30 a.m., Hesney said.
Christ told Derrick that there would
be another party the next night, and a
meeting was set up between the Der-
ricks and The Flat’ 5 tenants for Mon-
day, Sept. 8.

As promised, another party was
thrown the next night. Again, The
Flat was visited by police, this time
by Sgt. Alfonso Miller. According
to Hesney, Miller had instructions
to call the mayor.

Minutes later, the mayor arrived.

“Mayor Derrick threatened to evict
us,” Hesney said.

From that, Hesney added, the con-
versation degenerated into a shouting
match. Again, The Flat was given a
warning, but no noise violation.

The main point of contention be-
tween the Derricks and their tenants
is a provision in the lease that prohib-

its “large parties, extra-fraternity par- ‘ ‘

ties or kegs.” Hesney noted that there
have been parties three to four times
the size of the parties on Sept. 5-6 that
caused no damage and were not bro-
ken up by the police.

The meeting on Sept. 8 did noth-
ing to resolve the matter.

“It looked like the dispute might
go to court,” Flat tenant Andy Scott
said. “It became apparent that things
couldn’t be talked out.”

Despite that, Scott went down to
The College Town Shop and met with
the Derricks.

“Basically, I apologized and
made peace,” Scott said. “I told
them we wanted to get out of the
lease without penalty.”

It quickly became apparent, how-
ever, that escaping the lease would
not be easy-or free. Hesney, Scott
and Christ discussed the matter with
Dean of Students David Howison
and their realtors.

Both the realtor and Howison told
them the same thing: They had a “le-

gallybinding” lease with the Derricks.
If they were released from the lease.

they would have to continue paying
rent until new tenants were found for
The Flat.

“We realized we couldn’t afford to
leave,” Scott said.

The Flat’ 5 tenants want to stay,
Scott said, but they realize that it won’t

be easy.

Junior
faces

felony
charge

BY HEATHER MCDONALD
:-——?-—— STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee junior
Elizabeth James was arrested and

charged with a felony for failing to
stop after hitting sophomore Dylan
P. Walsh with her Volkswagen bug
last Saturday.

According to the arresting officer,
Michael Hess, Walsh was walking
east along West Nelson Street that
evening when he was struck on the
left leg and thrown to the ground by a
car traveling in the same direction.
The driver of the car stopped, yelled
“sorry” out the window and drove off.

James, who is from San Anto-
nio, Texas, refused to comment on
the incident.

Walsh, who only suffered minor
injuries to his left leg, went to the
Lexington Police Department and
reported the description of the car
and state tags. James’ car matched
the description and license plate.
She was arrested approximately 9"
minutes later.

“She was upset,” Hess said.
“And she knew Walsh. She said she
was sorry.”

It is indeterrninable whether alco-
hol played a factor in the incident, due
to the 90 minutes which passed be-
fore James’ arrest, Beard said.

However, both the driver and the
victim had been drinking, Hess said.
But, due to the lapse in time, James
could have been drinking after the
time of the accident.

Walsh did not return repeated
phone calls from the Phi.

James has been charged with a class-
six felony hit and run. lfconvicted, she
could spend one to ﬁve years in prison,

“We have to repair a damaged re-
lationship,” Scott said.

Scott, Christ and Hesney are
now in a holding pattern, waiting
for a phone call from Derrick to
set up another meeting to discuss
the situation.

Mrs. Derrick declined to comment.

@Editor ’s Note: This is the first
in a series of articles concerning off-
campus housing and landlord rela-
tions. If you are plagued with inad-
equate, unsafe housing, lazy landlords
or even want to tell us what a won-
derful landlord yours is, let us know!
Contact Kathryn Mayurnik at
kma_vurni@wlu. edu.

with a minimum of 12 months in jail,
and/or be ﬁned $2,500. Her court date
is set for Oct. 28.

However, several sources say that
the charges against James may be
dropped because Walsh did not sus-
tain serious injuries and is not actively
pursuing the matter.

“You can actually reach people,’ candidate’s Reid Hall due
,wife told College Republicans Monday night.

BY HOLLY EsTEs

ASSISTANT COPY EDITOR

Jim Gilmore, brought a personal touch to politics
with her talk to Washington and Lee’s College
Republicans Monday night.

After an introduction by College Republicans Presi-
dent Kevin Funk, Gilmore, a professor at Randolph-Ma-
con College, proceded to shake hands and meet every
member present.

Funk announced to the members that Virginia has the

4 Roxanne Gilmore, wife of gubernatorial candidate

I best College Republican involvement in the nation, and

that it is important for W&L’s group of young leaders to
continue the tradition. He then discussed the signiﬁcant
points of Jim Gilmore’s platform.

In an aside from the political aspect of the meeting,
Gilmore told of how she and Jim ﬁrst met. They were
both undergraduates at University of Virginia and became
involved in the College Republicans group there. Their
first “date” was a door-to-door political campaign.

“There is a tremendous tradition of support at W&L,”
Gilmore said. “We were delighted to be here for the ﬁrst

A College Republicans meeting. And Rockbridge is not in-
signiﬁcant. We want to win the (Shenandoah) Valley,
and right now we’re ahead.”

. Some people, especially those students from out-of-
atate, wondered what, if any, difference they could make

B _y helping with this election.

“You might ask yourself, ‘Does it really matter
what I do?’” Mrs. Gilmore said. “It does, you can

actually reach people.”

The states of Virginia and New Jersey will hold the
only two elections in the country this year, and are said by
some to be representative of how the country will vote in

the next presidential election.

“This election isn’t about Jim Gilmore  it’s about you
all. You have to decide what kind of state and what kind
of country you want in the next century.”

for a make-over

BY SARAH MELDRUM

STAFF WRITER

Renovations to Reid Hall will make the building known
as the J -School more user-friendly for students and fac-
ulty by creating more oﬂice, classroom and storage space.

As the building now stands, it resembles a maze, with
some faculty offices tucked to one side of the library and
one classroom reachable only after passing through a stor-
age area.

“The building has been haphazardly filled in and
remodeled over the years, making the feel and tem-
peratures of the place totally inadequate," says Profes-
sor Hampden Smith, head of the Journalism and Mass
Communications department.

That will change under the renovations planned. The
journalism department is "most pleased” with the pre-
liminary architectural drawings, Smith said. He describes
the renovations as “a complete gutting” that will provide
“full digital access in all classrooms and labs.“

Along with the computer labs, the broadcast studio’s
planned redesign will serve student needs better.

The changes have no timetable yet, since there is
no place for the journalism department to go during
construction. Smith anticipates waiting for another
structure to be built, which would "provide fallow
space” for the department. He guesses that the wait
will be about five years, but admits that might be
pessimistic.

Cable 2 and WLUR will continue to run during the
renovations, but possibly with striking differences. Cable
2 may only run packages, Smith points out. because there
might not be a studio.

 

 

PAGE 2  I,

  IICWS
Meet the new professors, find

SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

out what they eat for breakfast

BY DAN BIRD\¥/HISTELL

 

STAFF WRITER Ch?;'1al3Ct:e|'kr M Emory University whererhe wasraP.E. _ 7 M C C  U D  P O I N T E D  U . S . hr
__ ' - e co ie it e instructor. e is a ra ’ - t e emories.

    CIVIL RIGHTS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Mathematics Elizabeth Knapp__ Visiting gree from Georgia State University. I really had a good time in college r r

Mr, Merge earned abaciteioys de- Assistant Geotogy Professor . and can't think of one thing I d do Anece F. McCloud, associate dean of students atrwashington and
gree iii Mathematics iii 1987 from the A W&L graduate hr geology rh Born and raised? differently (except needlessly suf- Lee has been reappointed to membership on [1'r1erV]rrg‘1I11a Advisory Com-
Urtiversity ofcoloi-ado at Boulder arid 1990) Khahh receive her doctorate Born: Death Valley, CA fer tlirpugh that upper level Chem mittee of the United States Commission on civil rights. She was origi-
ti dueturute iu Mathematics iri A1994 from the Department OrEhVhhhrheh_ Raised: Woodbridge, VA class.)‘ nally appointed to serve on the committee in  I993. As associate
from the State University of New tat Sciences at the University of Vrr_ r r dean of students at W&L, McCloud SrT€Sp0I1Slblllil€S include supervi-
Yurkr Stony Brook siuee August grhia hr i997. She Writ he Visrhhg Why W&L? _ Favorite Cereal? sion of multi—cultural and community issues. r
1994’ Mrr MeRue has held the Max There IS a paved interstate from “Lucky Charms. You have to love ' I

Zorn postdoctoral teaching fellowship
at Indiana University.

Born and raised?

Denver, coiotado Lexington VA Childhood toy? Pets? character? “Doing Business Honorably” will be the topic ofa talk by WasIiing- 3
r ’ N0 Childhood toys, several small Grover ton and Lee alumnus and benefactor Richard L. Duchossois, ’44.
why a professor? Best memories of W&L? rodents. _ Duchossois will speak in room 327 of the Ernest Williams School of
Ever since I was a little kid I‘ve Goshenr the River Houser Red _ Best "alt? Commerce, Economics and Politics on Thursday, Sept. 25, at 8 p.m.
loved to explore new places and dis- Square,-mud slides at KAr late night Dance mus”? A good heart. A monetarv gift from Diichnssnis allowed the completion of the

cover new things, and mathematics
lets me do the near impossible, such
as to explore the shape of the universe,
or to see the shapes DNA makes as it
coils up ever so tightly. I realized
along the way that I could help others
make their own way through math-
ematics, to see the world through new
eyes.

Favorite childhood toy?

My chemistry lab! My grandfa-
ther built me a laboratory in the base-
merit of my home when I was only in
the third grade.

As a teacher, what role do you

feel V°“ can relay in the "Yes of Outdoors and €XP10f€l 1 Often fear Omaha= Nebraska" :Ir1riX'rhBu:tr:lrrirSs Etriﬁclrahih/:r?rIh:é(::I;h Tenor Scott Williamson will present a faculty recital at W&L on Sat- r
the students - from fomlef Students about h0W much 7 frfrrr ryh: evils of rhf world urday, Sept. 27, at 8 pm. in the Lenfest Center. The program, “A Poet’s ‘
Most people think of ritatheiuat_ they miss the beauty of the area. I WhY 3 teacher - ' Love,” will celebrate the varieties of verse set to music. The concert is r

ics like they think of accounting, as a
kind of bookkeeping of numbers.
Certainly, they don’t think of it as a
means of human expression, as a tool
with which one can discover the uni-
verse, as an art as a science. Math-
ematics is the natural language in
which much about world is written.
If you don°t know this language, you
are walking blindly through an amaz-
ing universe of light and color. I want
to bring students closer to mathemat-
ics, to experience the sense of discov-
ery as they uncover new worlds for
themselves.

Favorite Sesame Street

Assistant Professor in the Geology
Depanment while the department con-
ducts a search to replace Sam Kozak.

Born and raised?

boogying at Phi Kap, FD, the Con-
vertibles, Shows and all the great Ge-
ology trips.

Childhood pets?

I had a pound puppy (Bingo), a
kitty (Blacky), two German shorthair
pointers (Maggie and Molly) and, of
course, the goldﬁsh came and went.
Now my husband, Chuck Smith, and
I have two great SPCA dogs: Barley
and Hops.

Do you have any advice to the
students of W&L?

Spend lots of time enjoying your
surroundings while you’re here. Get

know that I am lucky to be back here!

Favorite music?

It varies  little bit of everything
 bluegrass  Bela Fleck ...and gotta
love a good zydeco band!

Best Trait?
Enthusiasm

Andrew Pulsifer—Head
Coach of the Men’s Swimming
Team and Assistant Coach in
the Athletic Department

Pulsifer comes to W&L from

Atlanta to Lexington now. I drove it
approximately 550 miles. It was very
smooth.

Dancing is performed to the ’70s
disco classics, the ’ 80s techno-pop and
Scottish Highland Kilt and Yarn.

Favorite Cereal?
Raisin Bran

Jim Pospichal — Visiting
Geology Professor

He has a bachelor’s degree
from the University of Nebraska,
a master’s of science degree and
a doctorate in geology from
Florida State University.

Born and Raised?

“I’m not really sure. Probably the
stereotypical response is ‘I am greatly
satisfied by reaching out to young
minds and having a positive effect on
the future leaders of our country’. I
can’t say this is the case for me. It
may be that I just liked having sum-
mers off.”

Childhood toy?

Major Matt Mason-Action Figure
Astronaut. I think I had all the acces-
sories, even the green, big-head Alien.
I still have all of it, by the way. Hot
Wheels were big when I was a young-

/

Good

x
SUBWAY

Sandwiches &

Solods

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

Times

and Good Food
463-3338

ll ll «D5» JIIBlflfIBlI’§ID|[l §l[lI’IBIBlL, |LIBXlilllg|l[ID|ll

  

lA)0I(ll)g For .1 new saiidwich
taste that's healthier than other
mi ilxxl.’ Try our ltmm-d
Chicken lirmsr. Siihway Club?
and Turkey Eiraur 6! Hum subs.
xoppixl wirli the unique t.isn- of
Grcy Poupon Honey Mustard,
and all with It» (lull (i tgnum of
far. (Fail: sul) ILLS 5.5 grzlnls It)
be cxacil). 'I':i.\rc the new flavor
without all the Fit for yourself
For .1 lIII’|II('(llIfX1C.

   without
all the fat

But ofcouzse, with

453 E. Nelson si.
Lexingion, V0

/

  
 
 

  

    
  
 
     

 
  

ster. I still have my cars too.

those marshmallow clovers and now
there are even blue diamonds.”

Favorite Sesame Street

If you could have your
students leave with only one
thing when they leave your
class, what would it be?

Coming from a scientist’s point of
view, I would want my students to
know that not everything has been dis-
covered, not all the answers are know
and that there is no limit to the new
and exciting things that they them-
selves have the opportunity to un-
cover.

Childhood Pets?
Dogs: Stormy, Frost and Bubba,
a huge hairy kodiac bear and chow

Horse: Tammy, the only albino
horse I have ever seen. She was
pure white with pink skin and pale
blue eyes. Her hooves were trans-
lucent.

Cats: Too many to count.
Peaches, who lived to be about 25,
still slinks around the house now as
a ghost cat.

As a teacher, what role do you
feel you can play in the lives of
the students?

Mentor, adviser, friend and role
model.

 

DUCHOSSOIS TO SPEAK ON ‘DOING
BUSINESS HONORABLY’

Duchossois Tennis Center, the state-of-the-art indoor tennis facility which
opened earlier this year.

MAILROOM SUPERVISOR RECEIVES
RECOGNITION

David Weeks, university mailroom supervisor, has achieved recog-
nition as a certiﬁed mail manager, the International Publishing Manage-
ment Association announced.

Weeks has worked in the W&L Mailroom for more than 17 years.
He has been mailroom supervisor since 1991.

FACULTY RECITAL TO CELEBRATE
‘A POET’S LOVE’

open to the public free of charge. A reception will follow in the lobby of
Lenfest.

FRESHMAN LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS

All members of the class of 2001 are invited to apply for the Fresh-
man Leadership Council. This group of 15 students meets weekly with

the class president and vice-president to plan class activities, fundraisers 2.

and service projects: Those interested should pick up an application by
Carol Calkins’s office in the University Center by_Sunday, Sept. 28.

—COMPILED BY JOHN FIDLER

.0. llllll el llearin s  

TUESDAY, SEPT. 23rd
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 24th
MONDAY, SEPT. 29th

Pick up Budget Request Form and
sign up for interview time
outside the Executive Committee Office

lively bistro
8: outdoor patio

   

7:30-10:30 PM
Each Night

I%

Breakfast Lunch Candlelight Dinners
Fine Wines Imported Beers
Cappuccino Espresso
Homemade Baguettes <5’ Croissants
Outrageous Desserts

10% tiff with
college Ill

19 W. Washington St.
540/464-1900

    
    
 
   
 
      
        
   
     
   

 ﬁ%%

ri-is
vSUBi§..!RV‘

463-3322

9 S-.‘~‘ii'Ii)tlIlCI-I
SHGULD BE.

   

 

 

>_

 

SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

REsuLTs

Football (0-2)
Guilford 34

-~ -W&L 20

Sat.:

Men’s Soccer (2-1)
Wed: C.Newport 2

W&L 4
Sat.: W&L 0
VA Wesleyan 3
Women’s Soccer
(4-0)
Thurs: Hollins 0
W&L 10
Sat-I VAWesleyan. 1
W&L 6

Volleyball (5-1)
Tues.: W&L d. E&H
15-13,15-13, 9-15,
15-11
Thurs: W&L d. Swt.Briar
15-0, 15-6, 15-6

Men’s X-Country

Sat; 1 st at W&L Inv.

Women’s X-Country
Sat.: 1st at W&L Iniv.

Water Polo (4-0)

W&L 1 5
Virginia 5
W&L 1 5
Maryland 7
W&L 16

Georgetown 8

W&L
Rutgers 2

1 130 Wilson Field

AHEAD

Football
Sat: Home vs. Centre

Rugby

October 2: Season opens at
VMI on the Parade Grounds

Men’s Soccer

Thu: Home v. 
4:00 p.m.o Lib. Hall Fields

Sat.: Home v. Goucher
1:00 p.m. o Lib. Hall Fields

Women’s Soccer
Sat.: at Guilford
Volleyball

Tues.: at Roanoke

Fri.- at Maryville
Sat: Tournament

Men’s X-Country
Sat.: at Cortland State

Women’s X-Country

Sat‘: at Dickinson Open

BY CHRIS PUGSLEY

sports

PAGE 3

Women’s soccer romps Hollins and VWC,
continuing undefeated dominance in ODAC

BY FRANCES GROBERG
WWW STAFF WRITE}

The women’s soccer team extended
their winning streak this week, defeat-
ing Hollins 10-0 on Thursday and Vir-
ginia Wesleyan 6-1 on Saturday.

Junior Karin Treese became the
leading scorer in W&L history with
her third hat trick of the season Thurs-
day against Hollins. Treese’s goal to-
tal stands at 41. She had nine goals in
the ﬁrst four games this season, but
did not score Saturday against VWC.

“Treese not being a scoring factor
yesterday and still winning certainly
says a lot about the depth of the team,”
said Coach Jan Hathom.

Both games were decisive victories
for the Generals, as the women con-
tinue to assert themselves and move
to 3-0 in the ODAC conference.

“I thought VWC was supposed to
be a hard game for (the team),” ex-

Generals drop home opener

Fourth quarter
interception dashes
Genera|’s victory
hopes

STA!-‘FWR1'l‘ER

Athletic Director Mike Walsh prob-
ably said it best Saturday when he
asked, “Is Junior Lord ﬁnally a senior?”

Lord, along with the rest of the
Guilford Quaker team took advantage
of several Generals’ turnovers and de-
feated W&L 34-20 on Saturday.

The Generals and Quaker offenses
both took some time tq get ﬁred up
with the score deadlocked at zero for
almost the entire ﬁrst quater. However,
the Quakers struck ﬁrst and then hit

hard for the rest of the game.

Lord and William Rochelle each
gained signiﬁcant receiving yardage
with Rochelle having almost two hun-
dred yards by the third quarter. But,
the exciting part of the contest was
pushed to the ﬁnal quarter.

With the Generals leading 20-19 af-
ter a failed two-point conversion, the
Quakers took advantage of another
Generals turnover and marched down
the ﬁeld scoring on a touchdown pass.
After a successful two-point conver-
sion the General took over poised to

    

claimed one fan at the end of
Saturday’s game.

It certainly didn’t turn out that way.
Just nine minutes into the game, se-
nior Erica Reineke scored on a cross
from junior Caroline Keen. Neither
team was able to dominate for the re-
mainder of the half, but the Generals
exploded after halftime with 5 goals.

Deidre Coyle and Kelly Norton in-
creased the spread to 3-0 early in the
second half, scoring just under two
minutes apart. Twenty minutes later,
Christy Meade and Samantha Garbish
scored 55 seconds apart to increase
their lead to a dominant 5-0.

“Yesterday’s win (and the ﬁve goal
margin) was a pleasant and wonderful
surprise,” Hathom said. “It’s usually
a one-goal game and sometimes we
go into overtime. It’s been a long time
since I’ve seen a VWC team give up
like that.”

Kelli Brubaker of VWC scored the
Marlins’ lone goal soon after that to
decrease the Generals’ lead to 5- 1, but
freshman Lindsay Williams answered
15 minutes later with the last goal of
the game, making the ﬁnal score 6- 1.

On Thursday against Hol1ins,Treese
added an assist to her hat trick as she
continued to be a force on the ﬁeld.
Junior Caroline Keen and Freshman
Shana Levine both added a goal and
an assist against Hollins. Ginny
Jemigan, Courtney Nolan, Samantha
Garbisch, Erica Reineke and Lindsay
Williams also scored goals for W&L
in the rout.

Next on the Generals’ schedule are
be two games in North Carolina. The
women will play at Guilford on Satur-
day and at Greensboro on Sunday. The
next home game will be Tuesday, Oc-
tober 2, at 4:30 against Sweet Briar on
the Liberty Hall Fields.

Junior Floyd Young eludes a Guilford lineman as he speeds around the end
in W&L ‘s 34-20 loss on Saturday. HoLL1sn;R Hm/1;r/PHOTO EDITOR

atteinpt a comeback. Quarterback
Christian.Batchel1or completed three
pass_es,to_move the Generals to the
Quaker thirty-yard line.

Then, Batchellor completed a pass
on fourth down and one to give the
Generals new life. But, Batchellor was
then sacked for a loss of ﬁfteen and
the Quakers caught the Generals out
of position for a ﬁve-yard offsides
penalty. Finally, Batchellor was inter-
cepted and the Generals’ hopes of a
victory disappeared.

Despite the loss, the Generals have

 

Hampden-Sydney did not play

ODAC League Standings

ODAC record Overall

W L W L

Emory & Hemy 1 0 9 (1
Guilford 1 0 1 1
Hampden- Sydney 0 0 0 2
Randolph-Macon 0 1 1 1
W&L 0 1 0 2
Bridgewater 0 1 0 3

Guilford 34, Washington & Lee 20
#10 Emory & Henry 31, Bridgewater 7
"#20 Catholic 35, Randolph-Macon 21

 

Florist to The Homestead

Ten E. Nelson

Lexington, Virginia 24450

540.463.9841

Mastercam.

 

www.ftd.c m

        
 

l wanted my friend to relax and
be pampered on her birthday.
That's why 1 treated her to some aroma therapy.
She thinks I'm a mind reader.

I think my florist is.

 

not lost faith in their chances.

“Our team has a lot of potential han-
dling defenses and there should be
no one in this conference we cannot
compete with,” states tailback Floyd
Young. “There’s no reason that we
can’t be successful in the ODAC.”

The Generals have definitely
showed signs of progression with
outstanding performances by the
younger players and should do well
this season. The Generals next test
will be here in Lexington next Satur-
day at 1:30 p.m. against Centre when
the team will hold their annual Hall of
Fame Day, when past General athletes
will be inducted into the W&L Sports
Hall of Fame.

Game Statistics

GC W&L
Score 34 20
First Downs 17 . 21
Rushes-Y ards 32-68 31-43
Passing Yards 315 286
Passes (A-C-1) 35-16-2 47-27-3
Total Offense 67-383 78-329
Fumble ret.-Yds 2-0 2-34
Punt ret.-Yards 7-58 5-48
Kickoff ret.-Yds 2-45 5-84
lnterc. ret.-Yds 3-59 2-5
Punts (N 0.-avg) 7-35.1 8—40.4
Penalties-Yards 10-84 7-73
Possession 27:16 32:44

Junior Elizabeth Richey gets tied up with a Hollins player in the
Generals’ 10-0 victory onfhursday. [‘l()L1.ISTI§R H0i'I;i/PH()m El)ll'()R

BY CHRIS KAUFFMAN
""""""""""""""""""""""""" " STAFF WRITER

It happened in an instant. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan scored two goals
near the end of the ﬁrst half and
effectively neutralized Washington
and Lee for the remainder of
Saturday’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference men’s soccer game.
VWC went on to shut out Wash-
ington & Lee 3-0 in the ﬁrst league
game of the season.

“We got spanked by a very good
team,” Coach Rolf Piranian said. “I
doubt we will play anybody better
this year. We sulfered failure, but
failure is fertilizer that will help make
us a better team.” .

After posting an impressive of-
fensive display in their 4-2 victory
over Christopher Newport on
Wednesday, the men’s soccer team
performed dismally on Saturday
against VWC and were unable to
put any passing plays together, es-
pecially in the offensive third.

“They weren’t any better than
us. They just played better as a
team,” freshman Scott Lofranco
stated. “We played pretty well in
the ﬁrst half, before they scored the
goals.”

Coming into the week the Gen-

Two quick goals
paralyze men’s soccer

erals knew that they had two very
tough challenges before them in
Christopher Newport and VWC.
Before the season opened Coach
Rolf Piranian had identiﬁed these
two inatch-ups as perhaps the big-
gest games of the season.

“Christopher Newport is a huge
game for us,” stated senior captain
Kingsley Chukwu last Friday, “The
whole team is pretty up for it."

Indeed they were. It took only
two and a half minutes for sopho-
more Jamie Parker to score a goal
off of a free kick from just outside
the penalty area. Later in the half
junior Sam Chase smashed in a
header off of a corner kick from
sophomore Ben Thompson. Senior
Gordon Meeker’s unassisted goal
early in the second half seemed to
put the game in the bag.

Then, late in the second half
Christopher Newport scored two
goals in an eight and a half minute
span to come within one goal of
the lead. However, John Wilson‘s
superb near post goal with five
minutes remaining iced the win for
the Generals.

The Generals’ next game is at
home at 4:00 p.m. on Thursday
against Emory & Henry and is a
must-win ODAC matchup.

463-B691

WANTED!

A student manager for The  
1997498 mens basketball Team.

IF INTERESTED CDNTABT
ASSISTANT BASKETBALL ,
Ci:iAi:H Mn CASSARA:

  

R. L. HESS & BRO., INC.

Washington and Lee Christmas
Ornament $10.00 Each While
Supplies Last!

115 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

Jewelry Store &
Gift Shop 2

Phone: [5401 463-1652

    
  

 

 

gnu.‘-

l

  

PAGE 4

Dallas did not beat Philadelphia

 

I thought I

 had just about
seen it all —- then I

 watched the
Monday Night

Football fiasco

 last week.
Q For 58 min-
“Con utes, the Philadel-
B°°}‘wa1l'°r phia Eagles bea
'98

the Dallas Cow-

boys. Not only

beat them, but demoralized them. De-

‘spite starting almost every possession
’ from near midﬁeld, the once-potent
, Cowboys offense was held to ﬁve ﬁeld

goals and trailed 20-15 with two min-
utes left. But a pass-interference pen-
alty, which should have been waved

. off because the ball was tipped, gave
Dallas new life and set up a ridiculous

ﬁnal minute.

After a touchdown pass slipped
past a Philly nickelback and into the
hands of Cowboy Anthony Miller, Ty

I Detmer drove the Eagles down to the

Dallas 5, settng up a gimme ﬁeld goal

- for Chris Boniol. Of course, the holder
- then made a horrible mistake by fum-
' bling the snap and trying to run the

ball into the end zone (fumbling again
in the process) instead of resetting the
ball. So Dallas ran off the ﬁeld cel-

1 ebrating a 21-20 victory they know
they didn’t deserve.

There are two ways you can deal

1 with your favorite team losing in such

agonizing fashion: chug a twelve-pack

and trash your apartment or try to ra-
tionalize. My apartment didn’t need
to be trashed this early, so I tried the
latter option.

I came to this not-so-stunning con-
clusion: the Cowboys are no longer
great. Good, but not great. Moreover,
the don’t seem to care. This was pain-
fully obvious on the game’s ﬁnal play
when the Cowboys hardly attempted
a kick rush. Considering Barry Switzer,
the NFL’s version of Matt Foley, moti-
vational speaker, labeled the game
“must-win,” one would have thought
his Cowboys would be ﬂying across
the line of scrimmage to bloack the
kick. But they were defeated and they
knew it.

The times are a’ changin’ in Big D.
Much of the media circus usually sur-
rounding the Cowboys has either
diappeared or vacated to Green Bay.
This is actually a disadvantage to the
Cowboys, who have thrived on an us-
against-the-world attitude for years.
Their opening game against Pitts-
burgh and Kordell Stewart was in-
tensely hyped, and the Cowboys
steamrolled the Steelers. But without
the same media attention the last two
weeks, the Cowboys have appeared
lost. Last week, the Cardinals trailed
22-7, fumbled the ball in overtime and
still beat Dallas for the ﬁrst time since
1990. Against the Eagles, Dallas came
out so flat that Michael Irvin was
throwing helmets on the sideline and
the crowd began booing. The Cow-

boys are undoubtedly still potent, but
the sight of them running onto the ﬁeld
no longer frightens teams. They prob-
ably have the league’s best defense,
but the defensive front seven are sus-
pect and the offensive line is no longer
pancaking defenders on every play.
And Emmitt Smith has yet to ﬁnd the
end zone this year.

Dallas won the ﬁrst battle, but the
war has yet to be won. The Cowboys
can be beaten, and no longer just by
the NFL’s elite. Now if their opponents
can hold onto their ﬁeld goal snaps...

Meanwhile, things hit rock-bottom
for the Eagles’ coach Ray Rhodes.
Rhodes, who is in a good mood about
as often as Dick Butkus and Howie
Long attend an opera, was still digest-
ing the previous night’s horriﬁc loss
on the way to his ofﬁce Tuesday mom-
ing when he was rear-ended. Rhodes,
of course, refusec medical attention.
Wonder what he has to day to the
other driver?

At least Rhodes has found out the

I last two weeks that his team is more
than capable of beating the NFL’s elite.
Once again, parity is the rule of the
league. Green Bay has hardly looked
impressive and the 49ers are worried
about Steve Young’s head. Will this
be the year Denver, New England or
some other AFC team breaks through
in the Super Bowl? Or will those
trendy Tampa Bay Bucs reign su-
preme? After last Monday night’s
game, anything is possible.

sports

Jock Shorts

Volleyball

The Generals volleyball team,
after last weekend’s second-place
finish in the W&L Invitational,
opened its Old Dominion Athletic
Conference regular season this
week with matches against Emory
& Henry and Sweet Briar.

They continued their winning
ways in both showdowns, winning
15-13,15-13, 9-15 and 15-11 over
E&H on Tuesday and 15-0, 15-6 and

Volleyball wins in style 0 Men’s and
women’s cross country take W&L
invitational 0 Water Polo cleans up at EWPA

15-6 over Sweet Briar on Thursday.
The two wins push their ODAC regu-
lar-season winning streak to nineteen
straight victories and their record to
5-1 (2-0). »..

In the first match against E&H, the
Generals were able to win a tough 3-1
decision, which saw them come back
from a 13-5 deﬁcit in the second game,
behind strong offensive games from
sophomore Nancy Reinhart, junior
Megan Snodrass and senior Hillary

Martin. Reinhart led the stat book,
compiling 14 kills, 12 digs and 3
aces, while Snodgrass added 12 kills,
12 digs and 3 blocks. Martin was
third on the team with 1 1 kills. Cur-
rently, Reinhart leads the ODAC in
kills per game, with an impressive
average of 3.27.

In the Thursday night game
against Sweet Briar, winless and

CDSee JOCK SHORTS page 6

© 1997 Microsoft Corporation. All riyits reserved.

Put yourself In a place, that opens
doors, that unlocks resources, that

nurtures excellence, that

hates boxes,

that knows ye

  

pushes you lhardi  puts you on
paths, that lead-Cleverywhere,
that end nowhere, that change

everything. Including the world.

SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

Yes, Virg1nia.....there is a

HALLMARK

in Lexington!!!

McCOl2KLE’e$

IIALLMAIQK SHOP
has a NEW, LARGER STORE!!

41 éouth Main étreet
463-9491

Come see our full line of cards, stationery, gift wrap, party items,
and wonderful gifts including Virginia Metalcrafters brass,

fine stuffed animals (including BEAN ll‘. BABlES!),

balloon bouquets, and sorority gifts.

We offer personalized imprinting of stationery, ribbon, and pencils.

Bring in this coupon and receive a

4 n

I
I _ g l
: 20% Discount :
: «on a purchase of $5 or more. :
I

   
   
       
   
   
   

0 good, that

Interested in full time or internship opportunites?
Microsoft Company Presentation
Noon - 1:00 pm, September 26, 1997
Room 307 Parmly Hall - Bring your Resume!
www.microsoft.com/coIlege/

Micmsofte

i

 

SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

»s JOCK
5-D SHORTS
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

picked last in the preseason poll, the
Generals cruised to an easy victory.
The games were dominated by the
Generals, highlighted by long
stretches of W&L service points
only occasionally interrupted by a
Sweet Briar sideout or desperate
timeout. Snodgrass and freshmen
Mary Beth Brookby added to the
Generals’ attack, which only had to
get the ball over the net and wait.
Snodgrass had five aces and

Brookby added three.
The Generals’ next game is Tues-
day at ODAC foe Roanoke College.
- Keith Weidner

Cross Country

W&L men’s and women’s cross
country teams proved ungracious
hosts Saturday in cruising to easy vic-
tory in the Washington and Lee Cross
Country invitational.

Both teams had little trouble in dis-
posing of the overmatched Southern
Virginia and Shenandoah squads. in
the men’s race, W&L had the first
eight ﬁnishers across the line with
Greg Ruthig leading a pack of ﬁve
W&L runners who ﬁnished within two
seconds of each other.

in the women’s race, W&L had the
first ten finishers with Natalia
Dorofeeva ﬁnishing as the individual
winner. This Saturday the two teams
travel to different locales, with the men
heading to Courtland State and the
women at the Dickenson Open.

- Matt Mitchell

Water Polo

The water polo team proved they
deserved to play on the varsity level
this past weekend, demolishing their
four club opponents by a total score
of 61-19.

“The competition was not up to
our level,” said senior captain Ben
Yemini. “They didn’t have the swim-
mers to keep up with us.”

The University of Virginia was
the first to fall to the Generals 15-5.
The University of Maryland was
beaten l5-4 by the Generals,
Georgetown fell by a score of 16-8
and W&L dominated Rutgers 15-2.

The Generals will get their shot
at varsity competition in the Divi-
sion Ill championships later this fall.

- Jason Zacher

S OITS

be iktttg-tum 1913i

or 100 years...
its where you
can find the

WW! Mr‘: VG‘ "ck" "II-it 'a1“»'

'7

 - 

v .-m.- wsper. arm»-

6

internet & e-mail

;§@DA£:lg
- ﬂow W13 eteademﬁe

6

E.

S3?

  

......r-..:»..-.V..  . r v

PAGE 5

HELPING YOU BUILD A SECURE FINANCIAL FU-
TURE IS AN IMPORTANT IOB.
FORTUNATELY, WE HAVE THE PERFECT RESUME.

‘ K I ith nearly 80 years of leadership experi-
ence in our ﬁeld, TIAA-Cref is eminently

qualiﬁed to help you build a comfortable,
worryfree retirement.

Our references are equally impeccable--
today, nearly twomillion of the best minds in
America trust us with their ﬁnancial future.

Allow us to review our qualiﬁcations.

Superior strength

With over $200 billion in assets, TIAA-CREF is
the world's largest retirement organization -- and
among the most solid. TIAA is one of only a
handful of companies to have earned top ratings
for ﬁnancial strength, and CREF is one of Wall
Street's largest investors.

Solid, long-term performance

We seek out long-terrn opportunities that other
companies, in pursuit of quick gains, often miss.
Through past performance can't guarantee future

TIAA

C REF Ensuring the future

for those who shape it."“

results, this patient philosophy has proven ex-
tremely rewarding.

Easy diversiﬁcation

We offer a wide variety of expertly managed
investment options to help build your assets. With
stock, bond, money market, and real estate ac-
counts -- as well as a guaranteed annuity to choose
from -- TIAA-CREF makes diversiﬁcation easy.

Unrivaled service

We believe that our service distinguishes us from
every other retirement company. In the latest
Dalbar Consumer Satisfaction Survey, a study of
2,000 financial companies, TIAA-CREF was voted
the leading provider of retirement plans.

If you work in education, research, or
related ﬁelds, why not put TIAA-CREF's experience
to work for you? To ﬁnd out more, visit our Web
site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call us at 1-800-842-
2776.

'A++ (Superior), AM. Best Co.; A, Duff & Phelps; Aaa, Moody's Investor Services; AAA, Standard and Poor's for stability,
sound investments, claims-paying ability. and overall ﬁnancial strength. These ratings of TIAA as an insurance company do not
apply to CREF. lstandard & Poor’: Insurance Rating Analysis, I996; Lipper Analytical Services, lnc., Lipper-Director's Analytical
Data,l996 (Quarterly). For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call 1-800-842-2733, extension 5509, for
CREF and TIAA Real Estate prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest or send money. TIAA-CREF Individual and
Institutional Services. Inc. distrubutes CREF certiﬁcates and the variable component of ‘TIAA contracts.

for sckooe year‘
uueimited / unrestricted
(long-distance pﬁone éiwll

Rockbridge

 

lobal Village

‘ 17 S. Jefferson St.l463-4451/M-F 9-5/www.rockbridge.net

*September 97 thru June 98

 

 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  

 

 .-   centennial L

K/ome occasions demand celebrations —— a H°”“,
\,wedding, a new year, a birthday. The Ring- the
tum Phi turned 100 last Thursday and in honor BOW,

boys. Our

/of that, the centennial staff is throwing the Phi a mi,

 
  
  

J.
masculine
predecessc

party —— a big one.   WM

well- 1‘

The first edition was published Sept. 18, 1897 on a endowed 5

M/0I’I’l€I’I lvl :

afternoon. The issue, which consisted of four pages, was as large as a ,,,,.,
of today’ s paper. Founders Sam Slicer and Gordon Houston created the paper

 

Saturday
half page

with the aim “to keep up interest in all of the college sports.”

for their endeavor. The Ring-tum Phi was part of a song which concluded with  W ;_  »

They used a popular football cheer as the name
this verse: 9

T hen join the yell, boys,

And yell like hell boys,

Sure enough

To W. & L. U. boys

And foot.-ball too, boys,
Let ’s give a rousing rumbling, roaring football yell. I‘-._,,//Goom.

It tn V103" 0' “:7, C“ on

Ring-tum phi, Stickeri bum. ‘\§*',;‘_‘;’,l,‘:’,'1,;,.mt\\ns. W  8
° ‘ - uh I u '. . IV
..‘.l.‘.7, wordth-°““~ \»y- 10*“ 

     
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
       
     
    
     
    
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
 
   
   
    
   
    
     

 

 
   
  

‘an i ill‘. “V good

Thank goodness Houston chose Ring-tum Phi. We’d get no respect if he’d ,;.‘,d..y,ﬂ«i‘«_y,_,.,.., \ W“ T,“ _. _
chosen the second most popular cheer —— Stickeri Bum. ' ‘ Q... no °' ‘°"-‘,,'.:".'.:’,ii--r-v=-“ ““”'¥""Wi
In the 100 years since its birth, The Ring-tum Phi has reported the events that mat- - .3ia“;~,;=;,...».
tered to students. In its second year of existence, many graduates and students fought ,.....;y,;q;°;5;a:%.‘f“°'
in the Spanish-American war. After World War II, a housing shortage occurred as , weary!-“"°"_ ‘W
married students (a rare sight now) ﬂooded the university. The 1970s were fairly ,,,.. ~1o:rD n“
quiet, and then in 1985 women came to W&L. In 1993, The Trident was born. ’
The Phi staff will continue its examination of the impact of the paper on this campus. We
will publish a special feature every other week that deals with some monumental event the

paper covered, controversies that arose and odd things we ﬁnd in our research.

 
   

 
 

 
    
      
 

 

 
    
    
 
 
   
  

We invite you to take part, learn a little something (Woods Creek Apartments cost $1 ,4 mil- ,, ‘
lion to build) and enjoy our celebration.  : ,'._ ‘ 3g
0‘ ' '.; n:i"\\‘
Hillary Rodham Clinton's idol, I. w““"'"’ "ix.
{mu\ ‘ ‘X
Eleanor Roosevelt, made a stop at ‘  \l\'.\\l_ wag;
. - . 0 \ 9
W&L as First Lady. She lent her ‘ii “,\,‘.“i.:. xvi: d
_ _ _ mu! ‘e’. _ \ L
plume to a campus publication in dnla'~.“‘:‘n‘::\L“ w”,_..,..r
‘ .«~|'\ ' ’
  nf édifufg : I .1” ,\\\'\:~ nuthl
. .x- w“ “‘ v.
T]: Q r t  ' Gordon Houston, (Va) liclitor-in-cl1ief_ ‘Uh :L_n.tlx\u1!, ‘“
{iv \. g.  1 Lelioy C. Barret, (.\Io.) Borden Burr, (Alu.)c‘ g"‘o.\ i\.mn~. but ue mu’ ‘ ‘ .
» C.Jas. Faulkner, (W.V'a.) ,_\,u.l In yuyull of um}, w\um
hVI1‘1.K. 3IcC]ung,(Va.) R0l)t_ Nelson‘  [{y.)l")“iig~aif their own \)0‘¢‘kem;‘‘M,7el‘ 1‘ Inc-ex\\x:uL we
h ,' t‘ : . z _ 1 . -z . ‘ I‘ ‘  I I ll ‘ I .u‘\
S11 snug tun I13 Ol)t.I‘l11l.(V 1). B‘ yL_“":_",_\,,, Audomm mm M“ whwmd 
me who are rm ) S

.., a.‘ ._  _‘ M_
J. mun. bl1LCI', (_\ .1.) Busme.~_.\_ )»I.1x1.t_ger. _ w ‘my ‘um!’ _ at w “met. L
wn f“‘l“” ‘m ‘ muhe bnw’ duw“ “ 1””

  
 
  
  

$1.50 per Year, in Advance.

  
   
   
    
      
     
     
      
  
 

 
 

mu 0 3
lLl\e'- Wu‘, rd marl,’ '
,l
N1 ‘ ....... ..
.. ‘ gull . “ga-
. 1 l ‘ as luriéf‘ 1‘, . mu. mu-\uc\uL\()l\ M . \. ‘ V. we
P1‘ U P11»! , 40¢» no‘ l”‘{' ' ems. Ml” U‘ *' . _ laocm
‘ \‘ III ‘Part ‘of 1) \\'~\?‘‘ H113 : mm’ bl‘ °‘y
The .a.m.I.u.- of ﬁauﬂh m-uh ‘~ l _ f mull IL-1‘ - pr _ , A
m. an-I.u..,~ .-nmm.-.4 to n. - ' ‘mgcrut the 00 L F ,\.',,.g 4, N nl l\\:\u‘v ‘ id uw_\.uru In
-mam body lIu| Mung” ﬂu! ' the W“ ' Cr g'm0'~ N‘ X‘ i ,1 hml’-\\‘\"~“ ‘ ’\ , dm-H.-mg our cl‘
In tho lulun Iho [lrh In ml -0 _ ( \(\\¥ -w it I \ ' HS 11 _
m In Illuwld to um um war. be“ at “I I \e~\ llc l‘“l’”‘ H M .’ .\~ \>\\asc<\ i" (Mi run
Hwlng. Tho"ncuon given in _&.c“r'|l\g E“? ' \ _ UH“ c|""‘“ H?“ l: \,\Vu || ‘.l\ 1“
mg" “'l.Il':l-lhhldﬂgh ilhllulm . \\I‘ ‘cum Pk‘), “lilo nokt‘ "AP l;“'“' wit)“ (i|‘\""'B' G‘
" o w wn ru 0 . at > n ,
' \ ,\n\\\, mK___m g, H‘

on live uni‘ uluullnble.

( mg ml M» ,,.,\-’\u\ -‘ - .
14 ml J _ 4; A. 1‘ I _ - \- _
U ‘c.KLnluf, V {hut Llu. “'“ n.\ nliprul-'»“ .

         
    
 
 
   
    
  
   
  
   
   
      

__._ \m\hg .V _' \i'm;'u\\w mug ' L
l)‘°m \. _ ‘L v \ 95 _» \ .\- 124 L \
wW,_g,_.,’ Un vu-sx EH36 (nub, Vun- ..1~\w Mnxnk my .\ w_ h , H“. rlus y
I o\\'\a\'“\"' Am L ’ .~'tlm4 0”‘ l\m\'c\'t'I‘, '~‘‘ . ii '  S" do“ i‘ mph
m’ 1 ...\ Sc“"'“‘°°’ b J. . .. ...  -.~ nl,\' ‘,;l\'u\\ W“ ' Lhﬁl

 g Theifirst editon of the Ri'ng—tum 

l
;Co-op Moving

  
    
 

   
  
 
  

  
  
    
  

     
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 

 
    

    

     
   
 
   

 
   
 

   

 

I
l V . l I
“T Old 8 5‘ °
W E 0 czmcry 1 From the Beanery to the D-Hall.
T 5 SU(l.'l l" u t, ' I  .  - - - . . B
, ‘f “ ‘"3 '“_“““‘ . With the addition ofEvans Dining
v In I l.m.s for .’\.-w (,.H,l,  M
S“. A. \ ‘Z [Lilh"§|:«l-tl‘I>‘1"l.l)';;vi¢-[J-,,[: ,.,,,,,,,._.  Hall, the Co—op and Bookstore of 0
&e““‘a V‘ (\ ““( > “in V .. II‘ _.:I: hi», ‘I 1:.-. :.\nt in -,\);,-,5‘: _ . prise
c0e(“l\ \Vl(\Q \\r“ i5 llizuilnlllw [(f‘ii.knIi \-WlilylilllitiliEN:Ul:lT.);I'iii);‘lii      todn
 '}'lH' um Inmm: Hull wizlvu» mp,‘ 9”“
. ' 7' , _ A‘__ ln:-xi {raw \s'r«-k-., ‘ ‘ vex‘,
I 1  K'I'tn- hlllltlllllf‘ an ulnrh p,,-»._ T ~
. McCRUM’S I i‘ ...:::'.:“;:  ‘..:r:.:\:;::::>;  we
I litre-zmnx-1.1. u.;.x.[.- umiii I041» ‘xii; 15 la -
; 5; l’1*l""|lI| H‘ rv>.u!\' fur lN"“1-V  . ‘ meei’
L l '\KI|H1'lllrH' n--xl wm-Iv. M A ll K” ll  L . ' past
 ”- \v(mwl\N,1. ll .\lr>.-.'. H1l'_Iull.|l|l. mt mu in. " ay7    n 5.
. . .:]lThV('HIl'H!.-. to hu I»l'.l:I,’l‘|l _',.,mi ,  I h t A
‘ ithv (:'.m-.lrr nf llw lulu}; ; .,,.K' n   0  mna
f -‘w 3 1:: .- »,.- .-  ., . '
f Good Ice Cream and Soda Water , -! «x»'''‘x;3‘».ln..»'?:.~ '.-..'».T.‘.f7.‘ Ti ,..  cold brewskis any and every night 5222
. u w llI‘\ hu.. In-<'mnv' lll('lt‘.I .n-, l~.
U:m-ilU- Ill llw (llnw ~;:.'u- um 11...? ' week
(:0 TI) 1 -'§(.‘0»r)p Ill-W «wr\|;>1:~\ lll |{l‘l4l lillalll 5      ’t WOYTI
,, H}. gr 'i‘\\,:.1itllIll)I_ In (‘up'i-. 1)».-k _, .,_,‘5_‘| I gog-
 McCRUM’s  1; ..:.t’-,.:ti.:,' .?:1I.'..;:.‘.‘.‘1:..'.T.‘..".;.."f.Ti:;;t :1; " Ways ‘he Case  .55
 '   H!!!‘ In .u'.\:ln|>‘.i-. ll-- '»:|l\l, h--\\:-\»-x- ‘ 8
ii If you want to know wlmt ix; I‘.   is:-‘Iii-ll:  :'.m~‘lli dmai
, , . _ I '.“~'1l'. ‘ll I"fu '..z .i'..; .i 
3 going on you ll Imd it out at f:iIi1»- ix£i".IXII‘l'l‘l[l‘l:(\:! i.ixiI,.;:.«".il.;i_.,‘.1..i 51;:
.   , .4 on :1 ‘-"(‘*'1N.-l|.m<l w 3 ,
‘T  p , (turn 1):-"r. ill(ill[)l"‘l‘4i in 1' ~.\l.H--l 
5  John W. Garrow, one of the founders of TheRing~tum Phi. The others in the ‘, ::,.'’‘,,',‘‘‘’,‘l’j''f,‘,f,':‘::‘  ‘t"'\‘;"  "['~“ mm.
in : '1---' |-' \\u
‘ ', . photo are not known. PHOTO ('()(lRTI-.'.S')‘()1-‘./()H.\' W. G.4RR()ll'JR. (‘/..4.s'.s‘o/~ 1942. ; .c....u.....-.1 on I'.u:-~ l‘uurI '0 ‘

   

SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

/V
_ .

The Phi-“moves tothe student-
Union Building on the corner of
Lee Ave. and Washington St., ,_  _‘
which was later torn down ’' ,- ;-_ ; Le;

Now in room 1208' of the University
Center, the Centeninal Staff
continues to produce the
University's ﬁrst newspaper

founded on the third ﬂoor
of the “main building,”
Washington Hall

| Washington and Lee University’s. Weekly Newspaper
h970

1900 1910 1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1930 1990

The Phi oriiee mate;-tattle
Department of Journalism in
the southwest wing of

The class of '35 was welcomed to

The  rriovesl   .
campus in September 1931 with a

room 200 of the
University Center,

.. . 1| ‘H k “nwn In-<1 rm M,
_ _._m -‘ . ‘_ .,. v-'
1 " ‘ . illm l1'“‘‘ ‘“ ‘N 1 1r
. “'"'u' v mI‘- aul'\‘"' ‘
‘ by l-urn

._.  Ring-tum Phi Wins Awardilrowedto

Washington College, now
Payne Hall

which replaced the
Student Union

Fraternity
Zeta Ileia.'l‘au
,Kappa Alpha
Alpha Tau Omega
l'hl Delta Theta
' Lambda Chi Alpha ‘
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Phi Gamma Delta
1 Sigma Chi
Phi Epsilon Pl
Delta Tau Delta \
Phi Ka pa Pi '
Delia pallon
Kappa Sigma
Phi Kappa Sigma
Beta Theta Pi
Sigma Nu
Pi Kappa Alpha
Phi Kappa Psi

Comparative Scholastic Standing Of
Fraternitiea - 2nd Semester 1946-47

No. of Man -

Average
1.61% ~
1.458
L423

- 1.405
1.373

1.308
L280 ‘

1.201
1.191.
1.190
1.171.
1.143

for

50 years later, students at W&L

are certainly much more
scholastically inclined, though
some would claim these averages
as proof of grade inﬂation over

the years.

EFACULTY LIGHTENS 
. SCHOLASTIC WORK‘,

lclass Periods Shortened, anal
1 I

Drill Given

urop Class

are Call

9 Forum

it’s a century old.)

with Coca-Cola ever since its birth

tory professors’ lectures?
5. The Bible (but just barely).

you know.
3. Vincent Van Gogh's “Starry Ni

things older than @112 itling-tum iﬂhi

10. The carpeting in Newcomb Hall. (Or at least it smells like

9. Queen Elizabeth II. Through the use of carbon-dating, pale-
ontologists have detennined that the queen’s birthday must have
occured sometime in the Mesozoic Era.

8. Heavy drinking on campus. lt’s likely that Washington and
Lee students have been mixing Jim Beam (introduced in 1795)

in 1886.

7. -Jazz. But once former students drank enough Beam and
Coke, would they have been able to distinguish it from their his-

6. The tradition of showing up drunk for history lectures.

4. Condoms. There's a reason why they’re called “sheepskins,”

ght.” What your history notes

look like once you’ve have enough Beam and Coke.

10

set of rules to follow. We rather

uld suggest that

ainfrosh refer to rule #10 for

imeless wisdom.

iE§§§Fancy Dress Is Off;

BY RITA ENNIS
Another tradition bites the dust.
[here will be no Fancy Dress Ball
this year. Skip Nottberg, President
of Dance Board, announced at the
Executive Committee meeting Mon-
day night that because of a greatly
reduced budget and past history of
student disinterest, Fancy Dress has

been cancelled for this year.

See Editorial Comment, Page 2

In other EC action, the Student
Body “Open Forum” was scheduled
for tonight at 7:00 pm. in the, Cock-
pit. Student Body P-resident Fran
Lawrence commented that he “would
like to make the ‘Open Forums’
monthly even-ts if student interest
warrants it.”

-President Lawrence also slated
another set -of Freshman EC “Dorm
Conversations” for tomorrow night.
The purpose of these conversations
is_to discuss student government and
the honor system.

Nottberg presented an extensive
report to EC concerning Dance
Board activities and plans. Concerts
are scheduled for Oct. 9 with the
New York Rock Ensemble and
Sweetwater and Nov. 13 with Char-
lie Byrd. A concert in late February
featuring James Taylor is being
planned. Nott-berg said that door
sales from these three concerts
would determine other entertain-
ment. Due to a sharp decrease in
Dance Pl-an purchases, the Dance
Board is operating on a budget of
about $17,000.

The EC heard a report from chair-
man Dan Silberberg concerning pro-
gress towards the 1972 Mock Con-
vention. In addition, the Committee
discussed the Lexington license tags
which students are required to pur-
chase, -but no official position was
taken.

SEPTEMBER 30, 1970

-Made in Rules

Freshmen l:low Permitted to
Remain Out Until 10:30.
at Night

Few changes have been made in
this year's Freshman rules. The
most i_rr1po1'l;ant change is one
which requires~F1'eshman to bein
their rooms only after 10:30 at
'nlght except on’ Sat.urdays.>Sun-
days and holidays. The previous
rule named 10 o'clock as the zero
hour.

The complete rules as post.-
ed on the bulletin board are

- as follows: -

1. All Freshmen must; wear
the regulation Freshman cap
on all occasions until the
Christmas holidays and must
wear the regulation Freshman. -
hat from Ch1'istme.s_ until Ens-'
ter. This cap’ is not required.
to be worn outside the limits,
of Lexington. 1 -

2. No Freshman will‘ be al-
lowed to ‘attend any Univer-
sity dance unless he wears 9.

. green bow ‘tie. All Freshinen,

"with the -exception of the

members of the Freshman

football team, must. leave in-

formal dances before 11‘

o’clock until further not.lce.. '

3. All Freshmen must be in:
their rooms after -10:30 at
night. except on Saturdays,
Sundays andzholldays.

_ 4. Freshmen must not walk
on the grass. .

5. All Freshmen must speak

to every member of the-Stu-

dent. Body without; having to
- be spoken to. , i -
6. No Fresh-man will be al-
lowed to operate an automo-
bile. . . ' 1
7. No 1|‘reshman—‘wlll.be al-
lowed to‘ attend any A. social’
functions at V. M. I.
8. Freshmen _must sit to-
gether at all football games.
9. Freshmen are required to
know all songs and yells pre-
scribed by the Cheer Leader,
and to attend all Student
Body rallies and assemblies.
10. Freshmen shall not wear
knickers or a.ny,uncor1vention-
al dress during the year.
11. Freshmen must conduct
themselves as gentlemenl; at;
- all times. '

. 3:33" Address all mutter intended for pub-

lication to the Eclitor-in-el1iet‘,:1utl all business

LYRIC

WED. thru SAT.
Rated X

ﬁornmiinicntioiis I to the Business .\Ia11:tger..
To i11§ure publiczttiou all articles must be 11c-
nompunied by fullnume of the writer. ‘

.Sta11nton, Ml1lI1fll.,,T¢lepl1oue G0,

1.ex.Nc'roN excl-1Aii1<sE:.
Students can have “up-:.o-Liaise" tale-_
nhones in their boarding houses for $1.50.
per month, cash in advance. W3 phones in]

exlr1-cou Lines to llueua. i'lsr.e.1,-:‘t.-xutitori.
l-iarrlsonburg and lilonte-1'e\.~ : Orttce 1111

“Please Don’t V
Eat My
Mother”

‘ 2. The Honor System, as well as Robert E. Lee’s other contri-
butions to campus.
And last but not least,

o Sunday Beer’ Law ‘Passe ;

--£ers Behind. Plan 100 Per Cent

t Sunday. many rrequenters
r local restaurants were,sup-
o to be told “Sorry. no beer
 This same phrase will be
vein in the future, how-
and was not Just temporary.
e reason for the "no bear"
‘it by your favorite waitress.
at at the last town council
mg a new town ordinance was
forbidding the sale of beer
.unday in Lexington. .
e n n for passing this or-
ce. according to Mayor En-
n. is that the council'l1a.a
anticipating for several

- a visit from local church-
n.,re<1uestlng such a move.
2 his reason. they felt. that it
imikratlve for them to take

11.
I the actual terms of the or-"
ce. no beer may be sold from
light. Saturday night, until
‘clock on Monday. In oom-
-: on this. the Mayor stat-
iatghe believed that the or-
’. eewill be "highly beneficial
.e townspeople."

Engleman further stated that
he expected this move to rid the
town of many people who come in

day merely to obtain beer. He
pointed out that it is not a sud-
den inove. but has been under con-
sideration fer quite a while, be-
ing brought to a head by this re-
cent threat.

When asked what his reaction to
the newly passed ordinance was.
the well-known Mt. Morris (Jabo).
stated that he considers it “a good
thing. All of the surrounding com-
munities a.re'dry for this reason."
he added. "to get the 1-it!-rat! of!
the atreeta." He also said that
most of the dealers he had talked
with likewise considered it. a good

‘ thing.

Doc. proprietor of the Corner‘
store. any: thnrhe is rain: to
attempt temporarily to remain
open on Sundays. despite this
move. It buatneaa drepa,_o1'I be-
cause or the "no beer sales." how‘-
ever, he says that he will close on

Sundty.

from surrounding parts on Sun-

1. Professor Richardson, our beloved faculty adviser.

Professors rememb

Andrea Ewing
7 _ _ ’_ Associate Editor
William McKinley moves into \/Vhite House.
U.S. declares war on Spain.
H.G. Wells publishes ‘War of the Worlds."

The Ring-Tum Phi began one hun-
dred years ago as a score sheet for ath-
letic clubs, and today it is one of the
two student-published newspapers on
Washington and Lee’s campus.

The name of the paper, taken from
an old football cheer, denotes the origi-
nal intent of the paper. Today many
students do not know how the name
came about, like many who do not re-
alize the history the paper has covered
and the changes it has undergone.

In discussion with different profes-
sors on campus who have seen the pa-
per change over the years or have only
been witness to recent issues, a person
comes to know that the Phi is forever

  ' g I ‘- in transition.

Marie Curie discovers radim. “Every g°“°'ati°“ is diff°'e“t=” Pm‘
German chanceuorouovon Bismarkdies_ fessor of Journalism Hampden Smith

W&L students publish ﬁrst issue of The Phi Said’ “(The Phi) has rise“ ‘md fallen
._ . w, A  .. ' over the years as the students have come

and gone.”
Smith remembered the coverage of
co-education as one of the highlights

Scientist discovers element neon.
U.S.S. Maine sinks in Havanna Harbor.
Author Ernest Hemmingway is born.

‘A nt Ferdinan von Zelibuilds airship.
“Yellow” journalism fans war ﬂames.
Photographers experimentwiih artiﬁcial light

.3. m

Washington St. --

’r.1_11_rruvnt.,I.. '.1mm~_re.-.

of the paper. “Co-education was exten-
sively covered from many different
angles.”

Taylor Sanders, professor of history
and university historian who came to
W&L in 1969, mentioned the period
during which there were two Phis-- one
printed on Tuesday and the other on
Thursday.

“The two papers were printed by the
same press, but they took different po-
litical slants and faced off against each
other editorially,” Sanders said. He
thinks there was a calm period after the
second Phi died and there was only one
paper on campus, but believes now that
we again have two papers “we are out
of the doldrums.”

A newcomer to the faculty, Assis-
tant Professor of Politics Eduardo
Velasquez admits that he does “read the
campus publications rather casually.”
‘‘I find the Phi informative and humor-
ous.” Velasquez notes that the paper is
a useful source of information cover-
ing what occurs on campus and what
students are doing. ‘‘I take it for what
it is, and it is good,” Velasquez said.

“What I read I enjoy.”

The longevity of the paper came as
a surprise to Velasquez, but Sanders re-
members the Phi covering big issues
such as integration and civil rights.
Sanders recalls “periods when it was
hard to ﬁnd kids to run the paper.”
“There were years when they did an
awful side on the business side-- in ads
and in circulation.”

“I hesitate to say it is better today
than in a previous heyday 20 years
ago,” Smith said. “There have been a
couple of wonderful FD issues over the
years. The most dramatic change (re-
cently) is the look of the paper which
has greatly improved.” Smith also calls
the Phi “a long tradition of generally
good independent student journalism.”

The paper is “off to a good start with
a lot of talented kids,” according to
Sanders.

Perhaps the most impressive aspect
of The Ring-tum Phi, as Smith points
out, is that it has “been able to sustain
itself and do as well as it has even in
poorer years with no active participa-
tion from faculty or advisers.”

er thePhil 

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
    

SEPTEMBER 22, 1997 5  PAGE 8

Clarification:

In our Sept. 9 issue, Washington and lee Preident john W. Brod was g
quoted as saying, “It was refreshing to read the new policies. I do think ‘D
it will be a challenge to enforce them. If this is enforced, alcohol-abuse

at W&L will disippear.” President Elrod was referring to the IFC safe
drinking policies ado ted this year, not the BYOB policy. However, in
the Sept. 15 issue, an ' rial used the quote to refer to BYOB. The Hii 5

apologizes for the confusion

Guitars, Amps PAS.
8. Accessones

DIANA MADSEN-SCHUFIELD 5
ROCKBRIDGE 205 North Main Street ~

g, I y MUSIC Lexington, Virginia 24450
1 This Week’s Weather: "

 

Q Phone (540) 463-5455

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BOOKING AVAMBLE:
IOLOII DUOII TRIOII BAND! ‘ t

Tuesday Wednesday . Thursday Friday

Lexington Laundry Service
and

High: 74° High: 65° High: 69° High: 71° High: 68° High: 70° 
Low: 53° . Low: 54° Low: 54° Low: 53° Low: 50° Low: 52°  ‘I

22 N. Main Street, Lexington

   

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

\ Open: 8 a.m.-6 p.m.I Teresa Dattolo, Owner

Monday-Saturday 464-4001
DO YOU HAVE - -- More than just words 9

LEAKY PIPES? THE BEST SELLER, INC 3.»! 9*‘ $7"’%,.‘
No HEAT? 29 WEST NELSON STREET * L 6
AN UNCARWG LANDLORD? LEXINGTON VIRGINIA 24450
“*5 W°'‘”°’3 BEST '-“"'°L°R°?~ (546) 463-4647 HAMRIC & SHERIDAN
OR ANY OTHER LANDLORD/HOUSING Issues? . JEWELERS A
|I= so, WE’D LIKE TO WRITE A STORY ABOUT IT. NEW 8.: USED BOOKS H W N Is S _
. C 0!! (rec! , Robby Jones
i CONTACT KATHRYN MAYURNIK AT 5 L¢Xin8l°n- Virginia 34450 ’ (540) 463-2022 _

. KMAYURNl@WLU.EDU TTOR MORE INFORMATION. S C   Ask  Our    T

 
   

 

 

 

~ \s%>IN$TANT CREDIT
®§ 0 Guaranteed Credit cards with Credit Limits g
Up To $10,000 Within Days! "
 No credit, No job, No parent-singer, No security deposit! ‘
no credit "" bad credit * no income?
   Tum 0f the [Host lllrdelg Used 5     I    »
  Want VISA 6} MasterCard I_”e_cTi_t_ _C_a_r_d_s_? _ A
I   ORDE R FORM E y,
' I I want Credit Cards immediately. I
:   ~ GUARANTEED APPROVAL '
I CRA, PO BOX 1 6662, ATLANTA, GA 30321 : ‘
: Nome ..................................  ....................................................  I X
I Add ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -- : 0
:  ........................................ ..S’ro’re ................ ..Zip ............... .. I y
I I Tired of Being Turned Down? ;
' GUARANTEED $10,000 IN CREDIT   I ’
 --------------------  ------------- My

 

  

'1
4  SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

 

advertisements

! 4 
E I L; -4 I
I ' - ~ 6 X 1 ., __ we HND we FLNN'\”\FF'£
V  -- - V  -. I LAWEK; um=—nzume.
’ T‘ '-‘_   " gt . 2;‘. mt; \\~\NUENDOEé’vEb«$\ER
; Q, - ’ =. ‘  L . _ >~  To ewmow mm we
, . —— ¥  ‘ A V _ \ V‘  . ‘ejzt  
,1  .. -' L  : \ -‘ ‘ - D

\NN\!LN\>°Eé-..

5 NON §EOUlTUii BY \\/it:-—=y

Tue EiK§\' 04.1; 0F  '-

\‘Y\k0\)(>\XT OUR
F\N N. K‘:—\NP~RO
‘NOULD BE P
\.\TTLE MORE

   

9 WhéLXIHb’roN Poe-r wawaﬁé GYM?

          
     
   
     
     
      
    
    
   
  

  
 
  

 imam OWL MUSIC co] Night Owl Will match E A
  M4050 W" [if we don’! already beat) H  N H a P P Y
 NEW &  on! downtown CD stores  %     100th!

     
   
   

gfgstgggggsngsfpi sale price on any item! Tﬂnuwﬂﬂy

Stttients’ Ntgiitt
7.19! p.m..

Ciheeik oturr catering speciariis S “MunC11ies”Buﬂef- $375
Specials on some drinks

Everyday Low Prices on New Items

FRE(‘l:I1.i‘:0stL:[:e::::rvice  S U  

(2~4I)aysForMostNew Items) - -t  
Lexington’s originoi, REAL olternotive  g
music sto . -
” Oldest MUSIC

Order by e-mo// of Res I er-

n/ghtow/@rool<br/o’ge.net

for any oeroatsion mm or otiif site

See our Website at http2//wwW.webfea.t-inc.com/sheridanlivery
55 North Main Street -- Call for reservations 464-1887 f ‘V

   

it ‘ WE NOW   oovm,
‘soosrrxsw

L i !‘\mriLt!rutmSTUNT11:VVE!!34i4Y 5iHl‘7!t,q[[},’,t ,"‘i  ww  
0 mil‘! iii}!)!,ii”’Mm’)';QW” .; J i.
As .  ii! -i_ _ mi! ! .
‘.l - , %\ U‘, ..’i,,. ‘

24 (3/i/044% oﬂm ca9imz

540-404-5800

  

 

 

"‘!~§-5

     

   

  
  

 r ..  sr~*"., “r--—».._‘._x._EL_
‘."__, »  _‘_f_‘f:

  

EUP

JLEX|NGTON’S PAR STORE - 463-5004

167 S. Moin Street - Corner of Preston  

- Domestic & Miorobrewery Kegs - Mony in stock!  4  S *“
- QUANTITY DISCOUNTS! FREE DELIVERY!    ._
—Cotering ond Kegs ““‘-‘“"“=‘* S‘ 4”‘ ‘S:-t~

Coll us for on your porty needs!

 
 
  

. ._..:
1;...»

 

 

Staking our claim

100 years ago, the editors ofThe Ring-tum
Phi declared thefollowing to be our mission
statement: -

It is with some embarrassment that the edi-
tors place the first number of The Ring-tum Phi

before the students. We hope, nevertheless,
that everyone will be lenient with our mistakes;
and, if you will kindly point them out to us and
help us out of the difficulties we will be very,
grateful to you. ‘

In a college of the size of Washington and Lee, a
medium other than the monthly literary magazine is
needed. It is our purpose to meet that demand. This
paper will in no way conﬂict with the Collegian.
Their purposes are entirely different. What we want
to do is to put all of the current college newswhere
it can be seen by every student, so that a fellow who
lives near the campus will know at least that there are
some students who live up town or out toward Buena
Vista. The drawback of having the students
board all over town is that they never know each
other. We want to help do away with this
drawback.

The Ring-tum Phi will not be the political
organ of any crowd. We think you will be
assured of that if you will look at the personnel
of the editorial board. We hope, however, that
every political question will be discussed in
these columns so that every one can see what
each side has to say for itself.

Our great object will be to keep up interest in
all of the college sports. We wan.t to let you
know what those sturdy fellows are doing day
by day as they work faithfully amidst dust and
grime, with sweat oozing from every pore, in
order that new honors may be heaped upon the
name of Washington and Lee, those fellows
who denythemselves all of the delicacies of life
in order that you may go out and cheer them to
victory. We want you to know how Oberlin can
hit that rush line, what a fine kick off Campbell
can make, how our backs can go skirting around
the ends. If we all know how these fellows work
we would be much more proud of our men when
they win and never complain when they lose.

If we can get out a paper which will interest
you, one which will. make you have more col-
lege spirit, one which will make you strive
harder to make the name of Washington and Lee
more glorious, we will be satisfied.

 

Hovv long does it take the
ft-‘€ShI1’1€T1 to ﬁgure out that
spring term is a joke?

- A math professor, paraphrased

99

Turner donates
to wrong group

CNN founder Ted Turner,
a man who has done little of
importance in his life other

 

than buy the greatest pitching
lineup in the history of base-
ball, announced Thursday
night that he had a little too
much money lying around —-
a billion dollars, to be exact.
So what’s a multi-billionaire
media mogul to do but give it
allaway?

Don’t get me wrong: I
think philanthropy is one of
man’s most noble endeavors.
I just have a problem with
where that money is going.

Turner has decidedto found
a organization that will dis-
tribute $100 million, a year
over the next ten years to or-
ganizations run by the United
Nations. In addition, he an-
nounced Friday that he would
personally spendthe nextyear
soliciting money from some
of the world’s wealthiest in-
dividuals in hopes of raising
another billion dollars.

What’s wrong with trying
to help feed starving children
in Africa? Nothing — if only
that were what the money

would be used for. The United
Nations is a model of bureau-
cratic inefficiency. It is run
by a group of third-world so-
cialists who are more con-
cerned with ideological dema-
goguery than initiating practical
programs to help the suffering.

If Turner really wants to
make a difference, which I
think he does, he should cre-
ate an independent organiza-
tion that would distribute all
that money. A billion dollars
is certainly more than enough
to run such an organization, and
it could not be any less effective
than the United Nations.

Turner’s generosity should
not be maligned by his deci-
sion concerning who will re-
ceive his money. His inten-
tions are good, and in a world
where the rich are giving less
and less, his actions should
serve as an example.

There was a time in this
country when the wealthy
were frequent bestowers of
such gifts. Andrew Carnegie
gave millions of dollars for
the construction of libraries
across the country (including
one at Washington and Lee).
The Rockefellers, Vanderbilts
and Fords were all known for
their willingness to contrib-
ute millions to worthy causes.

mn9\1'NnJ4uuV 'mmM

G‘

-rrDESPrrE HIS Beg’
EFFORTS, PRES.
CLINTON bx/ILL
PROBABLY BE
_REMEN\E>EREb As
THE PKESJDENI‘
WHO COULDN'T
KEEP ANYTHM/6."
2 ,e. -2

£7; <5°9*!.I

l  His ’I’EMPElZ'.‘.’,l

.___._.

do Go mean

i can"r KCCP

 
   
 

\

what the @111/_’

\ 4 Slreaclxj polrofl.’

Z [VV.“7.'J° uwt-, euvz 0

.. A STEADY PoLic,v,_, _

intro du.¢.ir\¢3
”\‘1 HOW
laosnIot_

         
       
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
      
 

That philanthropic spirit is
missing in C‘

but when you are worth more

few years ago, he left $43 bil-

than $20 lion to his family and the

m o d e r n
America.
Bill Gates is
well known
for his reser-
vations in
d o n a t i n g
money. In
fact, the first

If Turner really wants to
make a difference, which
I think he does, he should

create an indpendent
organization that would
distribute all that money.

billion,giv-
ing a few
million will

Walton Foundation. So far,
the foundation has handed out
only a few tens of millions.

not force Turner should be com-
you out on mended for his concern and
the streets. willingness to give. Hopefully

There is otherswillfollow hisleadand
also a con— heraldanew age ofAmerican

spicuous philanthropy. Mytonly hope

serious con-

77 lack of gen— is that they will be more dis-

tribution he made was a $25
million gift to Harvard. That
is no small chunk of change,

erosity among other modern
Rockefellers. When Wal—Mart

founder Sam Walton died a

criminating in their choices
of who will receive their
much-needed patronage.

Our tailgating style distuinguishes us

I was raised in the small suburb of
Croton, N.Y., just north of New York City.
When my friends and I decided where to

 

go to college, I was the only person adven-
turous enough to leave the cozy confines
of the northeast to attend school.

None of my friends have ventured down
to visit me, so when I return home, I am the
first person they ask about college.

Usually,thefirstquestionis:“So,where
do you go to school again?” After I explain
that I do not attend William & Mary,
Washington & Jefferson, James Madison
or George Mason, my friends ask, “What’s
going to school in the South like?” This
question is usually voiced with a mixture
of curiosity and fear, as though the Civil
War still rages on and I am a soldier
trapped behind enemy lines.

It is difficult to summarize Washington
and Lee in a sentence, so I often use the
vague, lame line: “Well, W&L is a very
unique place.” Naturally, my. friends are
curious about what ‘C

ments into a few hours of fun.
First and foremost is the way we dress.
In a variety of sundresses, ties, khaki pants
and sport coats
(some louder than

makes it so unique,
so they ask for an
example. A num-
ber of examples
race through my
head,liketheHonor
System, the Speak-if
ing Tradition,

However, I find myself
returning to the same
example every time: “We

tailgate for football
games incoat and tie.”,

the RCI-IS march-
ing band), we look
damn good.
Also, the
weather this time
of year is nearly
‘ "perfect.
years of tailgating,

Fancy Dress, Mock

Convention and pickup trucks with gun
racks. However, I find myself returning to
the same example every time: “We tailgate
for football games in coat and tie.”

My friends then give me the same look
they use when I say “y’all.”

Honestly, though, I love tailgating. It
is, without a doubt, one of the best tradi-
tions we have here at W&L. Tailgating
here combines so many wonderful ele-

)7 I can only re-
member one time when the weather
was truly miserable.

Consider the incredible view from the
Ruins. How many tailgating sites offer a
view of the leaves changing color on the
Blue Ridge Mountains?

No tailgate is complete, of course, with-
out food and drink, and we go all out. This
Saturday, you probably saw chicken
wings, subs, vegetable plates and fully

In three :

stocked bars that included cheap beer and
Jim Beam, if nothing else. The plentiful
food and drink can present tailgaters with
interesting brain teasers, such as: How
do you drink a beer, eat chicken wings
and wipe the grease off your hands
without licking your fingers or put-
ting the beer down?

Observant readers have probably no-
ticed that I haven’t mentioned the actual
football game yet. That’s because the

tailgate, not the football game, is the main 5

event at W&L. If the football team were
ever dissolved, students here would react
the same way that fans of the Cleveland
Browns did after their team moved to
Baltimore: before every home game in
Baltimore, fans still gather in the parking
lot for their traditional pre-game tailgate.

Tailgating is not about sports. lnfact,
it’s much closer to a state of mind. Be-
sides, no matter what my comments last
week may have lead you to believe, I love
a good party.

' ‘V or ov
Glht tiling-tum lﬂlit
Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs
Andrea Ewing

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor
w&life Editors

Kathryn Mayurnik
Tarah Grant
Liz Detter

Opinion & Editorial Editor David Balsley

Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
Assistant Copy Editor _ Holly Estes
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

Asst. Advertising Editor

Rebecca Cuny
Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown
Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office. room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters. columns. and "My Views"
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

. Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Suffering through the county fair blues

It’s called the Clearfield County Fair, but a more
accurate name might be “Trailer Trash Freak Show.” lt’s
held the first week of August in the normally quiet

 

central Pennsylvania burg of Clearfield. That week the
waves of white trash flood in, washing away with it the
last remnants of culture and good taste.

How bad is Clearfield? Let’s just say that it makes
Lexington look sophisticated and hip in comparison.

I’ve gone to the fair practically ever year of my life as
part of a family reunion, held primarily so that all of us
can thank our grandparents for moving away from that
hell-hole back in the fifties. My God - ifthey hadn’t left,
that could be me in the trailer anxiously awaiting the new
Diamond Rio album!

Another reason we go is to see which washed-up
eighties band will be headlining this year. Two years ago
it was Firehouse, this year it was some band called Night
Ranger. Talk about going from bad to worse: from a
horrible eighties band to a horrible eighties band that no
one has ever heard of.

For us, the attraction of the fair doesn’t lie in the

TALK

 

“I ’ll probably be under the ground. ”
—Shannon Bell, ’00

  

“Hopefully in a good card catalog. ”
—-R. Adam Storch, '99

tiresome rides or overpriced foods or even the tractor
pull, but in the people who show up and consider this the
highlightoftheiryear. These arethe folks whothinkthat
“Home Improvement” is the finest show on television.
As I walked around the fair, the Jefferson Airplane tune
“Crown of Creation” kept zipping through my head.
Geez, a few billion years of evolution and this is the
best that nature could come up with?

Let’s discuss some of the types of people who
come to the fair:

© Carnies. Three teeth, threethousand tattoos,
and a voice so hoarse that it makes Gary Busey
sound like a chipmunk. They want people to pay a
buck or two to play a rigged game where the only
prize is a crappy stuffed animal worth about eleven
cents. The fact that they manage to scratch out
some sort of living doing this speaks volumes about
the stupidity of Americans. The fact that I’ve actu-
ally wasted money on their games says plenty about
me, too.

@ Clown Girls. The teenage girls of Clearfield
are doing their part to keep Revlon in business.
Each of them applies so many pounds of makeup to
their faces that the clown in the dunk tank gets
jealous. And all of this to pick up the worthless

guys of Clearfield. What’s the point? We all know V

w The Ring-tum Phiturns

    

“In 100 years, I hope that I ’m able
to stand up and go to the bathroom.
If I ‘m dead, then I guess I won’t
care. " things. "
—James Sammons, '99

l

 

“Riding a motorcycle, drinking and
smoking, because that ’s when my
mom told me I ’d be able to do those

they’ll just end up marrying their cousins.

ea Cowboys. These guys walk aroundin cow-
boy hats and boots. OK, Tex, you live in central
Pennsylvania. You’ve never ridden a horse in your
life. Give up yourchildish,country-music-fedimageof
masculinity and put on a real pair of shoes! "Some of
these guys also sport Confederate ﬂags. Excuse me, Mr.
History, but Pennsylvania fought for the Union.

The only people who piss me off more than the
cowboys are: I

@ Trashy women who hang out with cowboys.
They may have six kids and so many tons ofcellulite
in their thighs that they’re starting to pull Jupiter
off its orbit, but they still think they look hot in
spandex. Hey, if they want to flaunt their faded
wares for a bunch of guys who haven’t held a steady
job since 1974, that’s fine with me. .

When you go to Clearfield, you start to wish that
the E-bola virus would cross the Atlantic. lfthis is
America, then the French are right: we are a bunch
of uncouth rednecks. (lncid_entally, that would
mark the first time in history that the French have
been right about anything.) Now if you’ll excuse
me, “Home Improvement” is on. Ha ha ..: Tim said
“more power” and started grunting! Didn’t see that
one coming! ‘

100 years old this week‘. We’re

a alive and well. Where will you be when you’re 100'?

“I ‘ll be dead 
—James Angelos, '08

--Laura Goodwin, '09

 

  

.¥_

 

SEPIIMBER22, 1997

opinion& editorial

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

Dear Editor,

I would like to take this oppor-
tunity to thank the Washington
and Lee community for providing
such an enthusiastic welcome to
the Class of 2001 duringthe Fresh-
man Orientation program. Of par-
ticular importance was the work
of the Freshman Orientation
Committee and its president, Neal
Kohl; the unﬂaggingly dedicated
committee chairmen: Amy
Kirouac, Anurag Chandra, Will
Olson, Stephen Komonytsky and
Charles Leddy. Our Dormitory
Counselors; the Orientation Group
Leaders; the Big Brothers and Big
Sisters; and Mrs. Bonnie Walker,
whose behind-the-scenes work
made much of orientation pos-
sible, all deserve our apprecia-
tion. All of these people gave
tirelessly of themselves, planning
and organizing orientation activi-
ties and staffing virtually every
orientation event——from Casino
Night to airport shuttles.

Thanks also go to: our Build-
ings and Grounds staff; our Food
Services staff who furnished the
culinary touches for several meet-
ings and special occasions; Jim
Farrar, Rob Mish, Frances Smith,
Kathekon, Southern Comfort,
JubiLee, General Admission and
Gordon Spice for the Alumni
Association BBQ; Kevin Batteh,
Professor Cecil and the Executive
Committee for such a meaningful
orientation to the Honor System.

Others too numerous to men-
tion also contributed to the Fresh-
man Orientation program, and this
general note must suffice as a
thank you. I am pleased that the
Class of 2001—our first class of
the new millennium—was the
beneficiary of such a community
effort!

Sincerely,

Dennis G. Manning

Dean ofthe F reshrnan Program _

Dear Editor,

The recent thefts at Washington and Lee have
illustrated that people outside of our community do
not abide by the Honor System. Recently, I have had
an experience which has taught me that they don’t care
if you do, either.

On May 14th, I went to the Lee-Hi Travel Plaza
with two of my friends. After our meal in Berky’s, I
bought a previously-viewed copy of Schindler’s List
for$] 4.99 plus tax at the truck stop store. I paid for our
food, which cost about $13, about $10 of gas and the
video with my MasterCard.

Unfortunately, with ﬁnals approaching, I didn’t
get to watch the video until after I had left for the
summer. I was upset to discover that it had tracking
problems which rendered it unwatchable.

I called Lee-Hi over the summer; the woman with
whom I spoke told me that lwould be able to return the
video when I came back to Lexington in September.
On Monday, I returned to Lee-Hi and talked to the
manager about returning the video. I showed her my
credit card statement from May, which shows a$39.84
purchase at Lee-Hi.

To my surprise, the manager, Bonnie, told me that
the video did not come from Lee-Hi. She spe-
cifically stated that she did not remember sell-
ing this particular video, double-cassette videos
or previously-viewed videos.

Bonnie read a couple of stickers on the video,
which state that the video is “Property of Mini Marts
Foods, Inc.” She said that video must be a rental from
a Mini Mart and suggested I return it there.

When I mentioned that two of my friends could
corroborate my story, she only repeated that the video
did not come from Lee-Hi.

The stickers were on the video in its original
wrapping when I purchased it. I do not know of any
Mini Mart in or around Lexington. I called to ask
where the 502 area code number listed for Mini Mart
Foods was, and the operator told me that 502 covers
Kentucky. To the best of my knowledge, I have never
been to Kentucky.

It bothers me that I received this response when I
attempted to return the video. W&L’s Honor System
is well-known in the local area. Up until this incident,
I thought Lexington-area merchants generally re-
spected the Honor System.

I also thought that an establishment which does"

good business with W&L students would be willingto
take my word and that of my two friends, both of
whom independently remembered me purchasing the
specific movie title at Lee-Hi.

Apparently, I was wrong.

The worst part is that other businesses show the
same disregard for the Honor System. A friend of
mine recently went to The Bookery and was told that
she would have to leave her book bag at the door—
their attempt to prevent shoplifting. She tells me that
it did not used to be that way.

I am sure others have had similar experiences. I
guess we’ve all found out that the boundaries of the
Honor System are much more narrow than we might
have assumed.

Joshua Heslinga ’98

th9ﬂ8'tlll11

I
~ \ett&"to°t%€${?§~.

so write to us! Send your letter to
phi@wlu.edu, or leave it by our office at room
208 in the University Center or deposit it in our

mailbox. Please limit letters to five hundred words. We
may edit your letter. Anonymous letters will be published
upon approval of the Executive Editors. (They look like the
rest of us, but are secretly powered by a force they call

_ 5‘A.P. Style.") Questions? Please call us at 462-4060.

You bet we do.

PAGE 11 A

Gifted kids need
attention as well

Recently, my psychology profes-
sor informed my classmates and.I of
our semester project. We were pre-

sented many choices: write a paper,
work in a day—care, help at a date-
rape hotline or tutor children.
Tutors are needed at the local el-
ementary schools——in fact, these
places are desperate.

Icouldn’thelpbutthinkto myself:
“Ifthere are that many kids who need
help in school, there must also be a lot
of gifted students who need attention
as well.” If the schools around here
are anything like my elementary
school, gifted children needjust as
much help, if not more, than the
slower kids.

Education for gifted and talented
students has become passé. Hun-
dreds of children every year sit bored
and unchallenged in classrooms,
barely heeded attention by theirteach-
ers and offered only faint praise. The
gifted and talented kids are among
the shining stars of our future, those
who will be the inventors, rocket sci-
entists and world leaders. Unfortu-
nately, with little intellectual chal-
lenge, they often become resigned.
They fail to try as a result of wasted
time in classrooms and easy as-
signments.

Because of the range of intelli-
gence among students, sometimes the
gifted children end up teaching those
who are slower than themselves. Of-
ten, after finishing an easy assign-
ment, these kids sit idle with nothing
to do. Their teachers, who are over-
whelmed with having to assist so
many of their students at once, often
send off the gifted children to help
their classmates.

This is wrong. Bright students are
not in school to teach their peers;
rather, they are there to be taught.
These unchallenged kids should re-

ceive work at their level which they ,
can ponder and from which they can 

learn.
Some elementary schools have

some sort of gifted-and-talented pro- ,,
gram, although such programs are "
For only a few "

usually mediocre.
hours every week, gifted kids partici-

pate in learning at their level. In -i
contrast, learning-disabled students :7
spenddayswith manyqualifiedteach- ,
ers. lam not suggesting that money .-
should be cut from LD programs ,
or that these children don’t have _
the right to be helped; however, ’°
gifted children should have the .

same opportunities.

Some parents and administrators :
are concerned that gifted programs -I

will place these students on a higher

level and make the other average and —‘
below-average kids suffer from low 
self—esteem. This is no excuse. ._
School was not created to make ,
students “feel good.” It is an en— v

vironment for learning.
Often, though, money is simply

not available for a gifted-and-talented 2

program.
No one knows ifthis situation will

redeem itself. Concerned teachers ‘
have been trying for years to get more 3
money and to create better programs 
for the gifted; the only result, in most ,

cases, has been more cutbacks.

A few years ago, I spoke at length 

with a gifted-and-talented teacher at
our local junior high school about re-

cent changes and cutbacks in the pro- ,'
gram. As we departed, she sadly said, 
“After awhile, you’ll realize that noth— ‘
ing will change, no matter how hard ‘-
you try.” Her classes, cut a year before A

from daily to twice a week, had just ;
been cut again to one day per week.

1 hope that we can overcome this "

pessimistic attitude and improve the

gifted-and-talented programs. Perhaps Vi

our psychology class should send stu-

dents to work with the bright and ig- "
nored. Schools need to suit all stu- ‘

dents——especially the ones who will '
lead our world in twenty years.

@4/ M /00%  ,

Clip: ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt
wowﬂﬂ/ee [0 iémw/9

Ernest Wi iams H 738,
ormea :73. myers W3,

Robert @. Rathbum ’77

 

PAGE 12 SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

etigwaﬂe
SIMPLE
SoLu'rioNs FOR

THE SociALLv
CHALLENGED

6V§®$9§$O¢O§§QQ6$3ﬁ¢lO§OQOQ$3§G$§ﬁG
Miss Etiquette’s tip of the Week:
Forally’all Whodidn’t learntodrinkinhigh school,
Beware. Drinking = Calories = Pounds. Think before
you drink. Don’t become a doughboy.

$$$$t~$$%$850§3$$O‘$$Ct9?ﬁ$G§3$®$$®i)Gﬁ»'3
Dear Ms. Etiquette, Dear Ms. Etiquette,

Help! My best friend won’t What’s the 411 on tailgating
talkto me! Lastweek,Ihookedup down here? I’m from up North
with the guy she was “going for.” where tailgating involves ﬂannels,
Now she’s mad and won’t even pick-up trucks and kegs. What’s
speak to me. with theties, Absolutand high heels?

I feel really bad abmit what

 

regain her friendship?
»Torn

Dear Torn,

Your dilemma reminds me of
that obnoxious Top 40 song “I
Saw You First.” Regardless, you
are in a difficult situation we have
all been in before. _

The first step to reconciliation
with your friend is realizing your
behavior was less than admirable.
I understand why she would be
hurt and mad. You should have

' talked to her before taking the
plunge with Mr. X.‘
However, your friend needs to

happened, but it’s not my fault —— -Confused Yankee
he pursued me! Now I really like
him. How can I keep him and Dear Confused,

What?! You’ve already been to
one and you still don’t know what’s
going on? Why W&L accepts
clueless northerners like yourself is
beyond me. Well, to be honest, I’m
a Northerner too, so here are my five
tips to help you achieve proper tail-
gating attire:

For boys, as usual it’s a no-
brainer. Always go with the uni-
form, i.e. wrinkled khakis, navy
blazer and that tie you ’ve been wear-
ing since day one. (Dirty white hat is
optional for tailgating.)

For girls, black is always an easy
option. However, if you prefer to
leave your funeral attire in the closet,

then:

Go with a colored, fashion-con-
scioussuit; this does not mean you
should raid your mother’s closet.
Have fun — go wild. This is one of
the few occasions where trendy-chic
is in.

Always carry a plastic cup in
hand, even if it only contains O.J.
No one will know you’re not cool.

Finally, no tailgating ensemble
is complete without a pair of expen-
sive-looki_ng sunglasses. NOTE:
Ms. Etiquette said expensive-l0ok-
ing. If you do not own such a pair,
the $5 blue-light specials at KMart
will suffice.

come to terms with reality. You
can’t steal what she never had.
Who knows, maybe someday
she’ll stab you in the back too.

But give her some time to real-
ize there are other khakis on the
Hill. And before you know it, the
two of you will be happily shop-
ping together for Homecoming
dresses.

P.S. What were you girlsthink-
ing? As If any Washington and
Lee boy is attractive enough to
make him worth fighting over.
Let those good ’ole Southern boys
fight over you.

 6 It’s our Birthday — send
us money O y 9 Seminar:

“Veterinary School Admissions,” Rene

  

Armstrong, Virginia/Maryland Re-
gional College of Veterinary Medicine
Room G16 New Science Building. 9
Hilary Hahn violinist Lenfest Center 8
pm. owednesday 0 DJ party

at Fiji 9 Lecture: Freeman Dyson sci-

 tions. In Lee Chapel at 7:30 p.m. Q
 §Shannon-Clark Lec-

entist author of Inﬁnite in All Direc-

 

ture: “Chaucer and Englishness” Derek Pearsall Harvard University. In Northen
Auditorium at 8 p.m. 0 “Doing Business Honorably” Richard L. Duchossois
class of1944 in C-School rm. 327 at 8 p.m.  QHALL OF FAME
WEEKEND 9 Tropical Party at Lambda Chi — dress appropriately 9 Band
Party at Phi Psi 9 Fun and games all weekend at SAE O“Looking for Richard”
playing at the Troubadour Theatre 7 :30 p.m. 9 Second City in the Lenfest
Center at 3 P-m- O  0 Football Hall of Fame Game vs. Centre
at 1:30 p.m. 0 “Looking for Richard” 9 Faculty Recital: Scott Williamson,
tenor, in the Lenfest Center at 8 p.m. Q Sundayo Do your laundry 9 Could
be the last day_to hit Goshen Pass before the first fall freeze hits. 9

A Colonnade Club

i, lei em .2 ram

Sue’

 
 
  
 

  

  

  
 
 

‘3ué-‘5{§lu 3*’ *1 o g.’r‘iti.. gt: g"i:%~;:‘
Alli--l  l77'1"~»‘ ;§ £‘l>‘:}'l i it :12 n i. 5
i-“'*.¥~li‘¥‘3«13*<»»”“ tut ~ .‘<‘>irt'>t‘l'E“:‘y?'.‘7ttl' I
at W re W ' C.‘ is t it” its m=..>c.l
:§:.::‘i:’i_s.z x >21?’ «  - - ' »

‘ ‘K Liz Dmwuz Gargantuan freshman loomed above me. Steam and 5}} E3)‘ O3‘ 5” .w
‘t’ «.7 <3 3‘; ii 3.3,‘ if ASST. w&i_irE EDITOR smoke filled mylungs. Arms propelled mein one direction pg:-3 gig“ g«.-(\ ,1,

, _ , , _ while elbows bruised me. I waded through the maze of .. ' _
‘,»'<.I\.¥¥ N. ‘rt A: We expected crowds. We expected freshman. We sweaty b°di°5 t° the bar and was offered the Ice Cold l'<.‘><‘.>l< i21ii‘iii§«’
.V.\:.::§_;>.§\.£.,,\.§ \,‘_,§~,.h expalcltled road cfheesg. Butiitlwas worse than we d feared. refresl-1mem0faPabstB]ue Rjbbon_ 1,}_i.§_% §,_,X._t§“}m

_ en my “C” 5 an I lost all but one of my
Li {R >§«;t,xg,.:.i§-7.ig,_~ dragg1edBourskeflves(c:)liit to friendsandbamed myway .i._i.K, i z,W{..,},)_ ,5

.. see t t b ‘

.m§_. R} Omm, Fridau $3 h:1S W: into the heart ofcopibat. {gm of §_§_w

' g A thouglit we §ver,e pre We diqfedhto wHjlfn- H A R
.*3i.t.l<..‘ <1. Lia.‘ ‘$1.2 ' gry i et e 0 ” -A -3 ‘ E», ‘ _.\V..._,i .}

‘A  pared to battle the “whip1t”and“vtie “A «l “ l ’
£..t..i.<.:’ t?i.i.§it.i.i ‘!<..’£T masses and see our fa- can Dance)’   l} 0 ("j i  M

_‘~ , ,  \ vorite band. G t- 1_

‘*{ i’-l*3““"§' if" Everyone loves the viSeSyr:n:jngfl)?i:g i“;<>‘a.‘:s;<.‘. l5.r‘.x.‘l§
t“.i.l’1,<.§;‘»€.’>¥”t l.i't;‘it'. Brealsfajst tCr?‘1l:b- lt:§6tp- hair closedin and] ,-,;,,,.,,-.,g ,,

I _ _, PT0PFia e a an s needed to get out. ‘ " ' E ,

.2; m. j.<.>i.i brand IS so popular on A plain-clothesed %':z:;.a.‘:;’>:::‘t‘ ii} b

. .. ~   .. t 5 CamPu5 most Baner instructed me . . . . ' '
£..‘v{.,§ a.i\~ii<..<..§ likely to pick to dump the beer at §.,,V,.»\. ,\,K,,., ,,r.__
£.'>.tTt.a.':'< ‘>1 'i'..i.‘t§‘¢$x;;‘. Roqﬁld Reatgan the door to the patio. 1 r;_ ;; E i x,.-

, . ._ . ._ .. . 35 9 SW3 55‘ We stood breathless "
U3 5 "ii ‘_ */V“-*7-" ma;/oflall tings drenched in sweat and béeri i<.’;it‘t";t.’<.§ ti i»;j*
gno (_;;~_m»3 }. _ 3 0V9 S We chatted with random people  ,_.g- i.,  yr
_ _m , g g PaIu°5- We 8Tf3W sitting on the wall. We tried to summon the resolve to go if }‘“}‘m"l} M“
“"322. .m...>.t1r~.;. II:/p 1 Watching back in. %.:t$.{t.‘..  1

. . .. , . . 0 ly Ringwald “Are you ready to go back in there?” my friends asked. ‘ g
V‘ ill l"'““"'“l" and Tom Cruise_ “Justaminute,”Ipanted. “I need to cool off.” l’ i‘ if i “ ti
§><j:‘:’“ t'.i.‘t.<.:’ t.l;.i\":»‘ throw huge bashesm A Hollins girl asked me if I was a freshman and, worse \\r§-—. . .M I» t . . A

1’, their parent’s beautiful yet, jf]even went here_ la‘ ‘ ‘L *
\\'7%3‘~7‘3 ~"-‘i5-‘£97 h0US§S, get W3St€d and The look on my face answered her question. I was ix a if «til?
K..&.,X.~~ §}_Ry_§ W clean it all up before Mom and dad got Home. . definitely cooled off and ready to go back in. ‘ 3 .. 1 ’§.&_,,. .
i " f ' A ‘ Al W&L» We throw huge bashes 3tu°3uufulfT3t§1'“")’ We shoved our way through the door and were jostled ’‘ R) ‘  3'?‘ R 3'
i'.i.“:.e.’. g‘>;.‘1:i.;‘r§.t'.<» lIL<1>USeSll(113lt)0l(1jT Pﬁfems Pi)? fofgﬂd We 86$ Waste? With 110 around" until we found our niche. But it was our niche. It (J-;\;»(.»;~ <;\:i'§' it ,
,   , Om 3“ 3 to W°“'Ya °u‘- utsumeumesa fateful‘)! was our school our classmates around us our favorite I I I 5
x\»<.:’.t1;:‘ 3.-§< >zT}.c’ basement can seem more like a war zone. band_ ]t was jug’; another Friday night at w:g;L, i:.:i. ig..>;l "t§'a.;’1‘
a n d R 0 b i “,5 ast week Ms. Etiquette rated of fried cheese sticks and potato curls. potato curls on the side, and took
the Palms among the ﬁne Both appetizers were cheesy, well- said delights home for later (in a
 dining options in Lexington, prepared and ﬁlling. With Andrea’s smaller Styrofoam box).
so we decided to investigate the food assistance we finished the quesadillas Doug, having spent far too much
8 at Lex Vegas’ favorite watering hole. and cheese sticks, but we were still time at the Palms for less-than- i‘.

We coaxed Andrea, Phi Associate
Editor and roommate of Robin, into
serving as a guinea pig in our

, Nelson) culinary experiment, and we arrived
(15): early on a Wednesday evening.
4 We were promptly seated in a
e’ , booth, and as we perused the menus,
r Grmdera 0 we noticed a large chunk of turkey on

OIIIS, 2 the ﬂoor. Tasty.

Andrea kindly saw to its disposal,
and when our waiter arrived we
requested drinks. Andrea selected tea
(true Southerners note: she had to
sweeten it herself), while we both
opted for Dr. Pepper, as the Palms
offers only Pepsi products. Doug
also ﬂashed his ID to obtain a Green
Dinosaur.

The waiter promptly brought our
drinks, with popcorn, and took our
food orders. We began with appetiz-
ers: cheese quesadillas and a basket

  
 

’ resentation, 3
ange: $4-12

 

it’.>t” t;l"i<.-f wt;x.>.§ ~;»

  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

working on the curls when the main
course arrived.

Andrea, fooled by Ms. Etiquette’s
recommendation, had ordered
spaghetti with meatballs. Although
plentiful in portion, the entree fell
short of the II Palazzo standard.

The accompanying bread was
overdone and crunchy on top, while
soggy on the bottom. Already full
from the appetizers, Andrea opted to
take most of the spaghetti with her in
a Styrofoam box.

Unlike Andrea, we knew the
Palms’ true purpose in Lexington
society; drinks and sandwiches, not

studious purposes, chose one of his
old favorites, the Palms Hot Brown.

This sandwich consists of thick
slices of hot roast beef withlettuce,
cheese, hot peppers and ranch
dressing and tomatoes, unless you’re
Doug.

He loves this sandwich and
always chooses onion rings as his 5
side. For quality onion rings, the
Palms cannot be beat.

After this ﬁlling meal, no one in
our party could think about dessert.
In fact, we are uncertain if the Palms ix.
serves dessert, other than alcoholic
delights.

We enjoyed our visit and recom-
mend the Palms to anyone who
knows what to expect: good
sandwiches and drinks.

And say hello to the Pugsinator,
the Palms’ most affable sewer.

ﬁne cuisine. ’Robin enjoyed her
Miiftiri Burger, awell-done patty on
an English muffin with bacon and
cheese. Having failed to ﬁnish the
fries served with appetizers, she
groaned when presented with more

Contact’s almost a great film.

ass 1/2 of 4 stars; thoughtful.

The pitch: “|t’ll be like ‘Close En-
counters of the Third Kind’ meets
‘NeIl’.”

     
    

ALEX CHRISIENSEN .9
H11 MOVIE CRrric A I I I I
I was trying to delineate the differ— a
ence between Robert Zemeckis’s last CONTAL, T

two films to see what makes a great
movie and how that’s different from a
movie that comes very close, but just
doesn’t hit a real home run. “Forrest
Gump” is the movie that made it to

great; “Contact” is the one that just didn’t quite. “Contact” is still quite
entertaining, but somehow it just didn’t reach that plateau which made me bring
literally everyone I know to see “Forrest Gump,” one at a time, until I knew the
movie by heart.

What I have concluded is that a great movie is so idiosyncratic and unique
that it is literally impossible to think, ‘‘It was good, but they just needed the right
(writer, lead actor, director.)” You simply can’t imagine any of these three basic
factors beingchanged and still having a good film. Nobody ever said, “Gee, that
‘Forrest Gump’ really would have been something if Kevin Costner had been
Forrest,” or “if Spielberg could have gotten his hands on it.” It needed Tom
Hanks, Zemeckis, and writer Eric Roth. That’s what made it, and that’s also
why they all have Oscars on their mantels right now.

Jodie Foster may have another Oscaron her mantel come March, but it’s
difficult to imagine that Zemeckis will be in contention again or that writers
James V. Hart and Michael Goldenberg will need to rent a tux.

I know it might seem mean, or unrealistic I guess is a good word, to expect
Robert Zemeckis to hit it out of the park every time, but I really am interested
in the slight differences that distinguish the good from the great. I think the

***i of4

    

answer, in this case, is that the project just didn’t need Robert Zemeckis. It
needed him to get made in the first place, but it didn’t need his particular vision
to make it compelling. There may or may not have been someone out there who
could have made “Contact” great, but almost any working director could have
made it just as watchable. Nothing lifts “Contact” above the crowd and says,
“Contact! This is what it is.”

“Contact.” as you probably have heard by now, is the story of Ellie Arroway,
an astronomer obsessed with finding intelligent life elsewhere in the universe.
She runs a program which tries to identify patterns in the radio transmissions
constantly arriving from deep space which might distinguish intelligent trans-
missions from the noise that stars make. Despite cuts in funding and being
looked down upon by the rest of the scientific community, Arroway battles on,
obsessed by her need to reach out. Her best efforts aside, however, Arroway’s
funding is about to be cut when she suddenly finds what she’s been waiting for:
a pattern among the noise.

As David Letterman said, “The aliens faxed down the plans for a spaceship.”
Suddenly, Ellie Arroway isn’t just that crazy chick who looks for aliens, she’s
that brilliant visionary who found the aliens. The next big question, obviously,
is who’s going to ﬂy the mother. I don’t want to ruin the expertly crafted
suspense, but I will say that the obstacles to Ellie’s selection are among the best
things about the film. “

Contact” sets the stakes extraordinarily high and generally pays off in the
end. There are some truly unsatisfying things about the pay-off as well, but you
have to admire whoever had the guts to bring the plot of the film so far to the
brink.

Jodie Foster does a good job as Arroway, despite the character’s stupid
name. Every time Matthew McConnaughey said, “Ellie,” I cringed. It just
sounds dumb. Nevertheless, Foster’s full intensity is on display, and you have
to like her and admire her character’s resourcefulness and determination. One
thing though: Forget the hats, Jodie. Really, darling, they’re too much. You
look like a refugee, and refugee chic is so over.

The ending is a huge surprise, and a lot of people felt let down by it, myself
included. And yet, following the very valid thoughts ofthe film through to their
conclusions, there really couldn’t be another ending. Any alterations would
knock over the ideological house of cards. Maybe that’s the problem with the
film. It knows itself so well, it leaves barely any room for heart.

Hollister Howey
WM Mrai (tier
FBL/{EVE TW2 "c0(,0Nl\iPrV

at/ue"ci«aT00N.‘ WHO wouw

)-

 

