THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 20, 1973

November drug bust
Result in convictions

 

tepublican gubernatorial candidate Mills Godwin will speak in Lee
‘hapel Tuesday at 8 p.m. His appearance on campus is sponsored
“y the law school’s Student Bar Association. Godwin is opposing
iidependent Henry Howell in his bid to return to the governship.

Student applications due to EC
For faculty committee positions

By ROBERT PUGH
‘he Executive Committee an-
nounced Monday night that ap-
-cations for student representa-

tives on the various faculty
cs-imittees are due next Mon-

They should be placed in

t EC box by 6:30 p.m. Inter-

ws Will be held Tuesday, Sept.
25, at 6:30,

Open positions exist in the

simittees on Admissions (2

sitions), Athletics (3), Courses

Degrees (1), Financial Aid
(23 she brary ts
Vice-President Steve Greene

anAounced that budgets for the
:ous student committees were
in his office Wednesday. He
‘d that the EC is loaning the

niversity $11,680 for the Con-
t Fund. The money will be
aid next September.

in other business EC _ repre-

sentatives appointed to serve as
baison members between the vari-
student committees and the
include: Financial — Mike
uttig, Student Activities Board—

Leland McCullough, and Bob

Keatley, Mock Convention—Tom
King, Recruitment—Russ Fletch-
er, and Curriculum—Ben Bailey
and Lewis Powell.

Student Activities Board Chair-
man Mike Brittin announced that
the various campus organizations
have been alloted space either in

the University Center or Lee
Hous. Considerable debate en-
sued over the assignments for

specific groups. All organizations
should be in ther new quarters
by the end of this week.

Items on next Monday’s a-
genda include:

Finalization of the Budget.

Consideration of a proposal
to increase student member-
ship on the faculty Courses and
Degrees Committee.

Fixing a date for freshmen
applications for student com-
mittees,

Consideration of revisions in
outdated, inapplicable sections
of the constitution.and

interviews for positions on
faculty committees (Tuesday at
6:30).

Numerous convictions and
sentences were imposed on 10
recent Washington and Lee gradu-
ates and students this summer.
The convictions resulted from the
indictments handed down by a
special Rockbridge County Grand
Jury last November. The trials
were held throughout June in
Rockbridge Circuit Court by
Judge Paul Holstein.

The indictments and _ convic-
tions resulted from a valley-wide
drug operation in the undercover
stages for at least a year, super-

vised by State Police.
There were 55 _ indicwments

handed down by the Grand Jury.

The W&L students and former
students involved were:

William Garner Hummer, from
Rossford, Ohio. Hummer, now a
1973 graduate, pleaded guilty to
one count of distribution of LSD,
four counts of distributing mari-
juana, one count each for the
accommodation sale of hashish
and marijuana (distribution

charges are felonies while ac-
commodation charges are mis-

demeanors signifying sale with-
out profit). Hummer was _ sent-
enced to five years in jail for
each of four marijuana counts,
five years in prison for distribu-
tion of hashish, two years for the
accommodation sale of LSD and
one year for the accommodation
of marijuana. In addition to the
prison terms, Hummer was fined
a total of $4,000. He was ordered
to serve one year in jail and pay
the $4,000 fine.

Kevin Philip Darby from Hunt-
ington, N.Y., a senior at the time
of the arrests. Darby pleaded
guilty to five counts of the distri-

Street systems

Now that everyone has had a
chance to get used to the “no
left turn” phenomenon of Lexing-
ton for the past 10 days, the enig-
matic Lexington street system has
been revised once again — this
time to implement a one-way
traffic system to try to alleviate
the city’s congestion.

Jefferson Street will be made
one-way to the southeast, with
traffic flowing from VMI past
Wé&L into the ‘business district”.
Main Street, parallel to Jefferson
and one block over, will be one-
way in the opposite direction.

In addition, Preston Street will
be one-way from Lee to Jeffer-
son; McDowell from Jefferson to
Jackson; White from Jackson to
Main,

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGT

' }

UNTVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA

Number |

bution of marijuana and one
count for the distribution of LSD
He was sentenced to five years
on each count. He was fined a
total of $7,000. The judge order-
ed Darby to serve one year in
prison with 29 years probation
and pay the $7,000 fine.

Douglas Brian Bruell from
Cleveland Hts., Ohio, a senior at
the time of the arrests. Bruell
pleaded guilty to four counts of
distribution of marijuana and two
counts of distribution of hashish
He was sentenced to five years
imprisonment for each charge.
He was further fined $8,000
Judge Holstein ordered Bruell to
serve one year in prison. He
will be on probation for 29 years
after his release.

Jeffrey Allan Rosenberg from
Chestnut Hill, Mass., a senior at
the time of the arrests. He pleacd-
ed guilty to three counts of dis-
tribution of hashish and one count
of distribution of marijuana. He
Was sentenced to a total of 16
years in jail and a $7,000 fine
In lieu of this sentence he was
ordered to serve two years in
jail and 18 years probation.

Daniel Silberberg, a former
student. Silberberg was charged
with two counts of distributing
marijuana. He was sentenced to
five years in jail with the last
four suspended. He was also fined
$4,000.

Alan Dewsnap Corwith from
Miami, Florida. He was a senio:
at the time of the arrests. Cor-
with pleaded guilty to one count
of the distribution of LSD and
was sentenced to five years in

(Continued on page 8)

chan ged

The move was made, accord-
ing to City Manager John V.
Doane, to alleviate congestion on
U.S. 60 (Nelson Street). Now the
traffic lights along Nelson will be
green for twice the time that they
previously were.

The “no left turn” signs along
Washington have been removed,
but the Nelson Street signs will
remain,

ye es ete tare
signs up the past 10 days, drivers
from W&L were causing a few
traffic problems of there own be-
fore realizing that, upon leaving
the University, they had to drive
up to Randolph, turn left, turn
left again, and turn right to reach
Rt. 11 north, rather than make a
left on Jefferson and travel di-
rectly to Rt. 11.

ae

OCT 17 1974
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  

On the student tax

According to an Executive Committee member in a statement
made Monday, the average student tax of most colleges in the vicinity
of Washington and Lee is about $40.

The student tax at W&L is $17.

With that $17, the EC must now decide the budgets of: the Calyx,
the Ariel, the Ring-tum Phi, the EC itself, the Student Activities Board
(with its subcommittees of entertainment, culture, film, and Uni-
versity Center, Contact, the law school newspaper, the Student Bar
Association, and the Publication Board. And, to make matters interest-
ing, there are about 40 fewer students here this year than last, a loss
of $680.

The University has said it will raise the student tax to $30 per
student... . next year.

Meanwhile, the university has also at least promised reimburse-
ment of expenditures of the EC from its Reserve Fund, which totals
over $11,000 at the moment. This means the fund can be depleted,
but it will be reimbursed by the university next year.

Does the EC, however, dare deplete the Reserve Fund? We think
not. The fund has historically been used for special purposes not
generally allowed for in the yearly budget, say, a speech by Bill
Russell, and funds for the rugby club, which is not connected financi-
ally with W&L athletics. There is also that always possible disaster
which must be considered. What if one or more of the organizations
under the EC went into debt?

Unfortunately, it appears that little can be done for this year,
Each organization will have to tighten its belt for at least one year
while waiting for the harvest. But when the harvest comes, will the
relative wealth of the increased student tax cover up the fact that
the tax still will be below par when compared with most area schools?

—P.J.L.

A change for the better

With a new year and a new editorship, we are bringing to Wash-
ington and Lee a new format for the Ring-tum Phi, Instead of last
year’s larger four-page or six-page issue, which made an excellent
placement and which was probably often used as such, this year we
are turning to an eight-page, tabloid paper.

The purposes of the changeover are several. First, the move is
economic. We will essentially be printing at the cost of what was a
four-page issue last year. With a menial student tax of $17, the
Executive Committee has been forced to cut corners, and so has the
Phi.

Also, we hope to make the Phi look more like a newspaper through
the change in format. We hope to experiment in style and general
layout in hopes of improving the paper’s readability. In addition, the
eight-page format will allow us to physically separate the paper more
ably into news, sports, columns and opinions, and features.

We are also attempting to cut down the total advertising in the
paper. This move, combined with the spread of ads over eight pages
instead of four or six, will also improve the Phi aesthetically.

But primarily, we are hoping the new format changes will stimulate
a similar change in content of the paper. For the past few years, the
Phi has been wallowing in the mire of ho-hum articles of nine
inches length which could tell just as much in three inches. We are
planning to provide more concise writing in our smaller format, not
only to conserve space, but to improve readability as well.

The trend this year will be toward not just news, which it at
times actually rather scarce in this community, but to news analysis—
the “why” of news reporting which is so often left unanswered.
Instead of covering in a 10-inch story a concert in Lee Chapel (which
indeed will not be totally neglected), we hope to devote nine inches
of that space to matters of more importance to the W&L student.
And we hope to do this objectively, marking opinion as opinion and
news as news.

To do his, we need your help. If something is wrong, write a letter
to the editor about it. If we can’t help resolve the problem, at
least we'll expose it. Raise a little hell.

Who knows, perhaps there are a few Watergates around here to
be uncovered...

—P.J.L.

 

OUTLOOK and REVIEW!

Thursday, September 20, 1973

 

@

 

 

 

| ~¥ |
: § a
ee e
a .
—— | >=
a. Las ‘
hea G
|e Pa
——_ beng) nee

   
    

; +e
lt lll Nt i tlhe El idl, ws se

‘

at

 

Sere A
| 2 eh.
ee

\ coer

| wn

t - = ~

bee ee” ew
Feta

The 1974-75 competition for
grants for graduate study abroad
offered under the Fulbright-Hays
Act and by foreign governments,
universities and private donors
will close Oct. 20.

Full grants, which provide
round-trip transportation, tuition
and maintenance, are available to
33 countries. Fulbright-Hays
Travel Grants are offered to 12
countries, and _ private donor
awards to 33 countries.

Candidates must be U.S. citizens
at the time of application, hold
a bachelor’s degree or its equi-
valent by the beginning of the
grant, have language ability com-
mensurate with the demands of
the proposed study projects, and
good health. Application forms
and further information may be

 

Fulbright applications due Oct. 20

obtained from the campus Ful-
bright Program Adviser, Charles
W. Turner, in duPont Hall 1.

NOTICES

Writers for the Ring-tum Phi
in the following fields will meet
with their editors at the specified
time and place this week for as-
signments: Feature and columns—
Thursday, 4:30 p.m., Rm. 114, Stu-
dent Center; news—Thursday, 5
p.m., Rm, 114, Student Center.

% BY aie

All students registered to vote
in Lexington, check immediately
to see if you are still on the elec-
tion rolls. If you have any ques-
tions or are no longer on the
rolls, contact Steve Woodruff,
463-9287, or Dr. Tom Imeson in
the chemistry department.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester,

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

Me RO gs ss SS Jess Reeves
Ty We aaa sis os ss es Bill Austin
POMS eo ss sks, Bill Robinson
PeRtures Hetere ... Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
RE se eo es David Lee
Pe ss Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
COMSPTIIOPE ss ss, Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager
Thursday, September 20, 1973

Black administrator to aid |

THE RING-TUM

PHI

 

In recruitment activities

By TROY FERGUSON

The Rev. Lutrelle D. Rainey,
minister of the First Baptist
Church in Lexington, has joined
the staff of Washington and Lee
University as assistant dean of
students and lecturer in sociology.

Rev. Rainey, who began his
work as assistant dean of stu-
dents on August 15, will center
his attention on counseling stu-
dents in the Washington and Lee
community, but is also adviser

to the Student Association for
Black Unity, assisting exchange
students from area women’s Col-
leges in their adjustment to Wash-
ington and Lee, and will be as-
sisting in the recruitment and
admissions of black students to
Washington and Lee.

He added that he will not begin

his teaching duties until the
winter term.
His work as a minister and

counselor are related, Rev. Rainey

Ask Traveler

Advice of a different color

Freshmen queries

Q@.—During a hectic Open House last week, someone substituted a
blank check for my rush card, so that instead of a tentative ask-
back for No. 9, I have a very definite date with the Cold Check
Committee on the 23rd. What can I do? And do they serve beer

or soda pop at these things?

.—Let’s face it, frosh. The only thing they’ll serve will be your head
on a out-of-town platter. In desperation, you could join the
Committee itself and claim immunity, but if you’re smart you'll
give Louie a call for a big no-questions-asked loan. Good luck
and when you call, make it after dinner cause I don’t get home

till then.
m% %
Q.—Where is Payne Hall?
A.—The University of Michigan.
as %

% i

% a

Q@.—As a freshman, I’m being forced to take courses for my distribu-
tion requirements that I can’t possibly pass. Any loopholes avail-

able to save my skin.

A.—No problem, youngster. Simply pick up a drop-dead slip for that
particular class, pre-date it yourself, get your adviser to sign it,
but then instead of turning it in immediately, just keep it handy
in the back of some Playboy until the very end of the semester
when your goose is about cooked grade-wise. Then casually drop
the thing (the slip, not the magazine) on the registrar’s floor
and when some poor clerk comes up with it, thinking it’s been
there for three months, you’ve got a great alibi ready, plus

shifting the glare of ineptitude over from your “F”

to the

stupid computer. See what I mean? You may eventually get nailed,

but it was a clever try!
Q.—What if I DO get caught?

A.—Call me after dinner. And have your checkbook handy.

pointed out, because as a minister
he is trained in counseling. Dean
Lewis G. John added that Rev.
Rainey was not hired specifically
because he was a minister, but
that his counseling experience
will help in his position as dan.

“T will attempt to aid students
with academic, family, commun-
ity, or other such problems or
with the adjustment to college,”
Rev. Rainey said. He urged stu-
dents who wish to talk with him
to call him at extension 240 or
go to his office at room 207 in
the student union.

“My office hours at W&L are
from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., but
I am available at my office in the
First Baptist Church or at my
home on 212 Massey Street any
other time a problem occurs,”
Rev. Rainey said. “All meetings
are confidential,’ he added.

Rev. Rainey said he will be
working with the Student Recruit-
ment Committee on recruiting
black students to W&L, and with

(Continued on page 8)

WGL in Astan

By STEVE YEVICH

Washington and Lee has been
chosen as one of 60 American
colleges and universities to par-
ticipate in a new postgraduate
Asian studies program sponsored
by the Henry Luce Foundation
Ine., of New York.

In this new effort, a_ select
group of students whose interests
lie in areas unrelated to Asian
studies will be given the op-
portunity of spending a year in
Asia, working in widely varied
professional fields. This approach
in selection is unique, according
to the foundation, in that it favors
potential leaders in non-Asian

Good sounds from across the

By W. PATRICK HINELY
Living in the Material World
George Harrison
Apple SMAS 3410
QO Lucky Man! (sound track)
Alan Price
Warner Bros, BS 2710

What we have here are the two
best lyric-and/or vocal-oriented
albums of the year thus far from
England. George Harrison has
come as far since his years with
the Beatles as Alan Price has
since leaving the Animals. These
two records for man almost per-
fectly complementary pair in
what the two poet-musician-phi-
losophers are saying. Price and
Harrison have managed to main-
tain very perceptive perspectives
on the course of events taking
place on our plant. Harrison’s
Indian-influenced spirituality
speaks down lovingly to everyday

banal existence while Price’s
hardass cynicism gives a very
realistic sense of the chaotic laws
of chance which govern so much
of our lives.

As far as the music itself is con-
cerned, both men are using it
mainly as vehicle for the lyrics,
Harrison’s mode of presentation
is somewhat sweeter than Price’s;
the overall sound is much like
that of All Things Must Pass.
George makes beautifully polish-
ed music which is possible only
with first-rate knowledge in the
use of a recording studio. Un-
fortunately, he had _ production
assistance from Richard Perry,
one of the top-40 crowd's studio
wizards. Some of it sounds al-
most teo good,

Price, on the other hand, is
much looser, In Lindsay Ander-
son’s film of the same name, Price

and his band play most of the
songs on camera. (They are part
of one of the movie’s casts.) His
style is far from flashy; it shows
the ruffled sort of cooled-out
feeling he has grooved himself
into through years of playing
clubs around England. He comes
on lightweight, almost like Rudy
Vallee at times, but his lyrics
are far from lightweight. If you
have any pretensions about your
own personal purity, Price’s songs
will probably give you a well-
needed slap in the face,

Harrison, as usual, has an all-
star list of sidemen, including
Nicky Hopkins, Klaus Voorman,
Jim Keltner, Ringo, and Jim
Horn, the latter contributing some
excellent sax work. Ravi Shankar
and Zakir Hussein do some fine
sitar and tabla work on the title
cut.

  

Rev. Lutrelle D. Rainey

study program

fields rather than Asian special-
ists or international affairs ex-
perts, as in other fellowship pro-
grams.

According to a statement in the
Luce Foundation’s annual report,
the program is designed to give
young Americans possessing lead-
ership qualities a firsthand look
at Asia “at a flexible and forma-
tive time in their careers.” The
ultimate purpose of the undertak-
ing is to develop an American
leadership fully aware of cultural
differences between East and
West and thus capable of deal-
ing realistically with Asia.

(Continued on page 8)

Atlantic

Price’s band is somewhat less
distinguished; all are veteran Eng:
lish session and club players.
They do their work very pro-
ficiently, giving Price’s voice and
keyboards an excellent base to
work from. Price’s keyboard
work, particularly on the two in-
strumental cuts, is tastefully exact
in its simplicity. ;

These two albums give us both
sides of the coin. Price speaks
of the ups and downs of life
while Harrison concentrates on
our ability to raise ourselves. The
two discs balance material and
spiritual-plane realities and philo-
sophies quite well. They are both
extremely valid for us today, be-
ing children of the atomic-elec-
tranic age whether we like it o
not.

These are albums of substance.
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

\\wkashington and Lee
welcome

» freshman ‘

. grater
Glass. le Ue
. A

 

ey

 

 

  

   

pig
Ms
. f
ye
Hime ia ME Lts

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

Lexington and the world

By ROME SCOTT

This is the way it is—an en-
tertainment columnist in Dead-
wood, Va. has little or nothing
to write about. No big news. A
microcosmic parallelism of the
United States entertainment
world, Lexington has a tendancy
to ignore the growing needs of
vouth for an outlet of artistic
drives.

In are effort to push a hesitant
and somewhat unwilling financial-
controlling minority to an under-
standing of the need, this column
is directed at building enthusiasm
within the listening and viewing
public to the point of creating
an active demand for a recogni-
tion of its wants and needs in the
entertainment field.

The attempt to manufacture en-

Academic

By TOM RITTENBURG

As a matter of record, and as
proof to skeptics that changes do

occur at W&L, the Phi makes
note of these changes in the
faculty.

Of greatest importance; Dr.
Robert McAhren, an associate pro-
fessor of history, has been named
associate dean of the College.
Kenneth Lane, Jr., the director
of volunteer services at W&L,
has been made associate dean of
the College. Kenneth Lane, Jr.,
the director of colunteer services
at W&L, has been made associate
dean of students.

Nine other faculty members
have also received promotions.
Promoted from associate to full
professor were Drs. George Gil-
man and W. Barlow Newbolt of
the physics department. Dr.

George Whitney of the chemistry
department, and Delos Hughes of
the politics department. Promoted
from assistant to associate pro-
fessor was Dr. Ramsey Martin of

 
 
 
  
    
 

 
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

 

9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

: FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: Varner & Pole

115 Main St.

— Lexington, Va.

Thursday, September 20, 1973

thusism
life here
there is
ington,

time to

will take two aspects of

into account: although
little going on in Lex-
things do happen from
time. These events can
ignored but neither can
the entertainment in the outside
world,

IN LEXINGTON: Saturday
night, frat combo parties cranked
up for the first time. After wand-
ering around for awhile and put-
ting an ear to various walls. a
locally-born group called “Daddy
Rabbit” finally gave the critic
what he wanted to hear.

Of all the repro-groups in town
that night, the big “Rabbit” had
the spark. The four man band
kicked out a sound that gleamed
with a party scene—brightening
gleam.

iot ba

The entertainment scene

More about “Daddy Rabbit” in
a later column. Suffice it to say
the group is well-worth heaving

IN THE WORLD: John Phillips
heads up a growing conting:nt
concerned with payola in major
American record companies. He
claims that Dunhill has rippec. off
at least $60 million from resérv-
ing musicians by selling records
returned from distributors to the
companies without giving the
artists involved their royalties

After a record-breaking concert
tour, Led Zeppelin had more tian
$180,000 stolen from their l.otel
deposit box, the groups last nizht
in America. At last word. the
culprit was still unknown ai. a
still-rich Led Zeppelin uncon-
cerned.

changes announced

the philosophy department, Norris
Aldridge, John Emmer, and
Thomas Jones of the P.E. depart-
ment were promoted from in-
structor to assistant professor
along with O. Kenneth Barnes III
of the drama faculty.

Seven members of the faculty
were granted university spon-
sored leaves for part or all of the
1973-74 academic year. Gone for
the entire year will be Dr. Milton
Colvin of the politics department,
Dr. David Elmes of the psy-
chology department, and Thomas
Vinson of the mathematics de-
partment.

Absent for the Fall term only
will be Dr. Gerard Doyon of the
art department, Dr. H. Marshall
Jarrett of the history department,
and Mario Pellicciaro of the
classics department. W. Dabney

Washingion aud Lee Uninersity
Bunkstore
\ Wide Variety of Paperbacks
Charge Accounts for AM Students
Special Orders Quickly Placed

DEDICATED TO THE
FINE ART OF BROWSING

SCOOOSESSOSSHESSSSESOSSEHSSOSHEESSESSHEHHEHSHSHHHSEH OS

Stuart of the English departinent

teri,

Eight teachers will be new to
the undergraduate faculty wile
two others will teach in the
School of Law. Returning to W&L
will be John K. Jennings as
associate professor of journa‘ism.
Named visiting associate protes-
sor of accounting was Dr. Ray-
mond Heatwole. New assistant
professors will be Dr. Sandra
Keith (wife of Dr. Philip Keith
of the English department) in
mathematics, Douglas Groot and
Herman Kaufman in Law. The
new instructors will be Gordon
Spice in music, Stephen Southall
in psychology, W. Howard Eanes
in journalism, Pamela Simpson
in art, and John Handelman in
politics.

SSSCHSESESSESCSETESSESSSESESSESSEHESESESSESESESSEESE
Thursday, September 20, 1973 THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5

 

  

up the Genesee River.

 

_ With the af@ of a few thousand pounds af (At Kodak, we were working on environmental improvement
nisms, we're helping to solve the water pollution problem long before it made headlines.) And the pilot project worked
. Maybe the solution can help others. so well, we built a ten-million-dollar plant that can purify
What we did was to combine two processes in a way $6-million gallons of water a day.

that gives us one of the most efficient water-purifying sye- Governor Rockefeller called this “the biggest volun
tems private industry has ever developed. tary project undertaken by private industry in support of

One process is called “activated shudge,” developed § New York State’s pure-water program.”
hy man to accelerate nature’s microorganism adsorption. Why did we do it? Partly because we’re in business to

What this means is that for the majority of wastes man can make a profit—and clean water is vital to our business. But in
produce, there is an organism waiting somewhere that will furthering our own needs, we have helped further society’s.

happily assimilate it. And thrive on it. And our business depends on society.

The breakthrough came when Kodak scientists found We hope our efforts to cope with water pollution will
a way to combine the activated sludge process with a trickling inspire others to do the same. And, we’d be happy to share
filter process and optimized the combination. our water-purifying information with them. We all need clean

We tested our system in a pilot plant for five years. water. So we all have to work together.

Kodak
More than a business.

 

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, September 20, 1973

>

The difficult twilight

By BILL AUSTIN
Sports Editor

While advancing age carries a
host of difficulties for all men,
its message seems nowhere
swifter, or crueler than _ for
athletes of exalted physical skills.
Finely tuned bodies are humbled
and slowed in their thirties; the
label of “old” claims even the
most durable of stars by age 40.
Thus, the recent accomplishments
of Hank Aaron and Muhamand Ali
bear special significance. For too
many figures of sport, the final
moments mock previous achieve-
ments, blinding the memories of
fickle fans to a nobler past with
the painful failures of the present.
Ex-champs like Floyd Patterson
plod onward in the hopeless quest
to regain supremacy. A few, such
as the football quarterback, Joe
Kapp, rise quickly to fame, but
more quickly still, plummet to
anonymity. Upon the pair of
Aaron and Ali, age has bestowed
a kinder sort of boon: the ma-
turity necessary to conquer multi-
tudinal pressures and doubts both
those self-made or plied by others.

For Aaron, his much-heralded
challenge of baseball’s career
home run record has brought the
Atlanta outfielder into direct con-
flict with the sport’s grandest
mvth-hero. In Babe Ruth, he
encounters the — bubble-bodied
slugger who caroused his way
through awesomely productive
seasons with the Yankee dynasty
of the ’20’s and ’30’s. Alas, Aaron
heads no powerhouse at Atlanta.
In fact, the Braves have been
mired in a sub-.500 year of inept
pitching and woeful fielding. In
consequence, the pressures of
publicity have fallen all the more
squarley on Aaron’s home run
totals. Despite an assortment of
nagging injuries and the strain of
39 years, this quick-wristed ghost-
battler has averaged a home run
every 10 at-bats, totaling 711
round-trippers at last count.

Much has been made over the
quantity of hate mail garnered
by Aaron’s challenging of sacred
memories. He has endured, with
dignity, a variety of racial slurs
concocted by those who somehow

  
   
 
   

+

~*~ ee i

IE,
Ae

te

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

Prody Qaneoof the Sanileyv bares

Complete Facilities For

} ~=Banquets, Weddings & Receptions ’
VOR RESERVATIONS, PHONE f63 2043
: One Mile West ol Lexongtonon U.S. 60

find the boyish, white-skinned
ruth a more fitting god of the
home run ball. Aaron’s ability to
weather the slander, and to com-
pile a batting average of .290,
makes his slugging achievements
indeed remarkable.

Like baseball’s future “Sultan
of Swat,” Ali has been struggling
with a mythical figure, but the
larger-than-life shadow with
which he must grapples is his
own. Truly, this presents a prob-
lem more telling than does
Aaron's Yun With Ruth, for
even the fearless Muhammad
must search soul and memories
for the former glories, being
trapped in a never-ceasing com-
parison of the past with perform-
ances of the present. As a result,
the former world-champion in-
cessantly seeks proof of his
once-unparralleled footwork, or
evidence of the flicking jab that
could cut and daze an opponent
with devasting effectiveness.

The three-and-a-half year lay-
off haunts him with a deadly
persistence. It divides his career
into a drama of two acts, the
first portion a brash rise to ex-
cellence and flamboyance, the
latter, a mixture of courage and
tragedy, always overshadowed by
the question: What if Ali hadn’t
missed those valuable years of
his prime? In his bout with Joe
Frazier, AH lost a—fight Dut
humbled what had been a true
fighting machine, rendering the
winner easy prey for the head-
hunting George Foreman. Yet,
Ali’s own fortunes hit bottom
when a lightly regarded Ken Nor-
ton smashed his jaw and his ego
last spring.

From that unexpected and pos-
sibly culminating defeat, Ali
grimly trained his body back to
a trim 213 pounds, and prepared
to again battle the surprising
Norton. In a September 10 bout,
Muhammad gained a measure of
revenge, and a chance to seriously
contend for the heavy-weight
title, by defeating a broken jaw
and a valiant come-back effort
by his formidable foe. At the

fight’s outset, the swiftness was
Ali’s feet and

there, in in his

  
 
   
 

AND
MOTEL

Superb Dinwiy va

Precoresque Atmosphere,
Serving | ood ne the .
Pane Proadtinoe ol Virgen,

e

punches. However, it was equally
apparent that time has eroded the
capacity for endurance that bless-
ed a youthful Cassius Clay. There-
fore, any chances Ali holds for
success against Foreman seem to
diminish with each delay, as the
fighter’s remaining speed slips
away.

Some observers, notably the
omi—opinionated Cosell, see Ali
as a boxer who realizes his de-

cline and who must now posture
as a figure of confidence in order
to gather one final million dollar
check, in a rematch against the

(Continued on page 7)

 

Cross-country hopefuls are put through their paces, prodded onward
by senior Co-Captain Bill Kalal. (not pictured)
—Photo by

Bill Robinson

Jewelry — Pen and Ink Drawings — Patchwork

SHENANDOAN CRAFTS

25 NORTH MAIN ST.

Pottery — Ironwork — Woodwork — Weaving

Hours 10 A.M.-5 P.M. Monday-Saturday

9009000090900209000098900000000899090953909093808089860808

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622
Thursday, September 20, 1973

     

THE

RING-TUM PHI

Emmer 1s Coach-of-Y ear;
6 named All-American

Culminating a 1973 season of
outstanding achievement, the
Washington and Lee University
lacrosse squad garnered a num-
ber of impressive summer-time
accolades. Of special note was the
choice of Jack Emmer as the col-
lege division’s Coach-of-the-Year
for the second consecutive time.
He received the award based on
the voting of his fellow coaches,
a tribute to the team’s 14-1 won-
Jost record, and its lofty national

 

The Difficult
Twilight

(Continued from page 6)

once ‘“Smokin’,” now disturbingly
morose Frazier. Maybe so. But he
performs the ploy so effectively
that he remains boxing’s most
controversial figure, its master of
the shuffle, the poem, and yes,
even of skill. Surely, Foreman and
Frazier strike with bullish power,
but their styles lack the wisdom
or the imagination of an Ali.
One wonders whether the years’
passing will treat these street-
brawlers with sympathy. In fact,
Frazier already hovers’ uncer-
tainly near an ignoble_ retire-
ment, a man at odds with him-
self and his craft.

For both Aaron and Ali, the
final segments of unique careers
have awarded a measure of suc-
cess not reflected simply by home
run totals or by boxing victories.
They are men of scars and of
glories, possessors still of pride,
of dreams...

 

Need Extra Cash

rank in the final NCAA polls.

In addition, six W&L players
were tabbed to both All-South
Atlantic Division and All-Ameri-
can teams. They are goalie Skeet
Chadwick, defensemen Don Eav-
enson, midfielders Ted Bauer and
Skip Lichtfuss, and attackmen
Bryan Chasney and Sam Engle-
hart. Five were first-team All-
Americans, and Chasney an hon-
orable-mention choice.

THE

RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

 

 

Armed with a new coach and the wishbone offense, the Generals
prepare for their 1973 home opener against Hamilton College. Game
time for this Saturday’s contest is 1:30 p.m.

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

Navy overwhelms VMI, 37-8;
Schultze intercepted 6 times

For the hopeful of VMI, Satur-
day’s 37-8 thumping at the hands
of the Naval Academy was a bit-
terly conclusive defeat to accept.
After a respectable game against
U.Va. (a 16-0 setback), cautious
optimism seemed to categorize
Keydet expectations. However,
such hopefulness proved sadly out
of place.

Disastrously, the potentially ex-
plosive passing attack led by
quarterback Schultze never ma-
terialized. Indeed, he tossed 6
interceptions, and the stadium’s
first sellout crowd of 10,000 en-
dured an afternoon of relentless
frustration.

Cecil Cooper, Navy’s talented

junior running back, epitomized
his team’s overall domination. He
picked up 172 yards on 25 car-
ries, including a pair of touch-
downs. The Middie point total al-
so benefitted from the kicking
of Steve Dykes, who booted three

 

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

121 W. Nelson

$

Phone 463-3176

$

field goals in four attempts.

Holding a mere 3-0 lead after
one quarter’s play, Navy capit-
alized on three Schultze intercep-
tions in the second period, mov-
ing out to a commanding 24-0
half-time bulge. In this segment,
Cooper bulled for both his scores,
while quarterback Al Glenny add-
ed a third, this one on a 4-yard
scamper.

On this day of despair for the
upset-minded, the intermission

Selita teleietobidetaletuteletdetiietdeletetetobtobtobetobtoledutotidenies

: The First National Bank

* of Lexington
= has special checking accounts for students

ssoloboetetetoedetetohledetegetbetetefutedetetfdeteoh oetetetetofetetufutetetetetonen

probably delivered the most excit-
ment, when the Keydets and visit-
ing Midshipmen battled over the
tearing down of VMI spirit
posters. Honor was upheld, and
order eventually restored, allow-
ing the third period to get under-
way, VMI’s stanza of glory.
After two Dykes field goals
gave Navy a 30-0 lead, VMI man-
aged to export the opposing de-

(Continued on page 8)

Ms oe he nfs ole oe fe oferta fe ie

 

4

 

 

STUDENT $!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 
Page & THE RING-TUM PHI Thursday, September 20, 1973

 

Assistant adimmistrator appointed Drug bust brings convictions

Robert lfred Weiss from
(Continued from page 3) Rainey was executive director of (Continued trom page 1) . : i ‘i ni i
NW ‘ . ee : Rasehwood, hio, a se Ol at
the Charles C itv-New Kent Counts selenn Ha sean ordered (5 serve i cAWwol é
: as ee So time of the arrests. He was found
Dean James D. Farrar on black (Va.) social ervice e agency, ant one vear of the sentence and pay ci counts of the ac
: . . ‘ & yee bile > . : onilty ] hree counts ¢ . a
recruitment ¢ é issions s before then, proje Sirec (0: 6. 2S Blue, :
recruitme Le and ag teT His : f s nen | _ eae are a $3,000 fine. —— commedation sale of marjuana.
ruiting »s will take him on ye Randolp rba onewal . i is eS z je sam a"
— Wi : ta : oe a = a ee Walter Alan K 1m) : : He was sentenced to one year in
ha ee ee = ES ‘hester. Pa. a junior at the time . ; : ent
two week trips al ‘1 ject i Chester, Pa., a juni iY a ie ] ‘ail and was fined $1,000 for each
ae ee of the arrests. Konyk pleaded ~

count. The sentences were to run

Navy tops VMI, 37-8; guilty to one count of distribut- concurrently. In lieu of the
#

In the winter term Rev. Rainey ts : ing hashish and was sentenced to sentence Judge Holstein ordered
Hi teseh an tmirocuctory Sone Highlight tS fight at half five years in jail and fined $3,- Weiss to serve 60 days in jail with

sions with prospective students.

cial welfare in the Sociology 2 000. His jail sentence was SsuUs- three years probation.
; ae ‘ ontinued from page 7) . as >was placed on five Ss See : -
partment. He mentioned the (Cont Page | pended and he was placed on five _B. Wilsie from Roanoke, Va.
possibility of his teaching a years probation. Wil ie was a former student of
ecaurse in black studies or black fense for one sustained drive and Gordon Groves from Freeport,

W GL. He pleaded guilty of one
count of accommodation sale of

a seore, The mareh was aided

igion in the spring. Bahamas, a senior at the time of

As a teacher. Rev. Rainey substantially by an end-zone pass the arrests. Groves entered a plea niclunen He was scene ts
h yes f yy” some sort of prepara- interference call against Navy. at not guilty to the charge of dis- d

4 yne year i ‘ison ¢ $1,000

Then, gambling f:r two, the Kev- a a aad, vee year in prison and a $1,0
» program in the Sociology de- hen, 8 8 es ‘ tribution of marijuana but piee fine. His prison sentence was

rtment so majors who do not dets converted, closing the gap .

i Li u = a, . LV

ed guilty to the charge of an os nonded in lieu of five years
= yj) f qQ » rr , qr Yr : $505 : SLISDELCUEL A : ve i
* on to graduate school can get 0 22, at 30-8. The fourth quarter = -comodation sale of marijuana. :

 

 

 

1 ypervi-erl rohatio

+355s with social welfare institu. ‘%@” still another Navy touch- He was found not guilty of the unsupervised probation.
tions throughout the state. down, this time registered by the = qgistribution charge. Groves was

Rev. Rainey holds the B.A. de- ReCOnG stringy. OFeRAYS UNH. fined $500 and sentenced to one rE O R S A i E
gree from Virginia Union Uni- For VMI, its initial victory still year in prison, His prison sent- | : a
versity and two master’s degrees, unattained, another chance ence was suspended and he was FCR SALE: ’68 Lincoln Conti-
sne from Pittsburgh Theological comes Saturday against Rich- placed cn unsupervised probation nental. 4-door.- all accessories,
Seminary and another from the mond, a 42-0 victor over David- for one year. Sika Wied Soke “Maes
University of Pittsburgh’s School son, Navy, meanwhile embarks George Murray Smith HI from ae 300. Call Matt Seebe
Sok Ne upon a gruelling schedule in its Richmond, Ky., a senior at the SS eebe,

Prior to his installation as confrontation with highly touted time of the arrests. Smith’s trial 133-5701, after 6 p.m.
viinister of Lexington's First Penn State, .a 25:5 numbler Gr proceeded identically the same as
Baptist sures this tae sey. Stepferd, Grove’s. His sentence differed

only in that he was fined $1,000. . :
W&L in Asian study program =
The W&L

 

(Continued from page 3) attending or has recently re-
Luce Scholars will be required ceived a degree from. At W&L, .
to hold at least a bachelor’s de- the faculty liaison for the pro- Republicans

gree, to have excelled in aca- gram is Dean Robert McAhren,
tics, and to have shown ex chairman of the Graduate Fellow-

sift ss . . S ~4 le
ceptional leadership qualities ships Committee. This commit- Se tember General
while in college. tee, after screening applicants, P

 

Fifteen Luce Scholars will be will submit no more than four Meeting
chosen annually by three reg- nominations to the Luce Founda-
nal panels of distinguished tion for consideration. b =>
| : ‘i gig ge ee y, September 20
jeaders. Each will receive a basic W&L is the only Virginia uni- Thursday , P
grant of $9000 and transportation versity asked to participate in the

8 p.m.

to and from Asia. new program. Other participat-

To be considered in the selec- ing universities include Yale
tion process, a candidate must be Harvard, Duke, Johns Hopkins Rm. 114, Student Center
nominated by the college he is and Southern California.

RING-TUM PHI

 

 

 

 

East Lexington

Round-trip jet, New York to
Luxembourg in the heart of

Europe, Sept. thru May for

} Grocery stays of up to a year. Show

| : proof of age. Book within 30
° Beer — Ice Gas days of your flight.

 

 

Party Supplies — Snacks YOU CAN BE IN
The first two copies of THE RING-TUM PHI are Opes = Seve 6 3m EUROPE TOMORROW!

ABC No, 2078—8 a.m,-10 p.m.

: . . ! Icelandic Airlines also offers
being sent to all parents of Washington and Lee stu- SHOP FOR SUNDAY one-week car, rail and ski

: . ss EVENING DINNER tours to Europe, Nov. thru
dents. If you would like to continue receiving each Ws Salk & telives Eom ean tat details Ga ace

 

 

edition of THE RING-TUM PHI, please fill out | a eo te

lowest-cost teurs to Europe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

your name and address now and send $6.00 to: of any schedulad airline. See |
your travel agent. i
©00000000000090090090009 ——a
* ® To: icelandic Arines 8 == =
THE RING-TUM PHI * p |’ Bik Sh ® | 630 Fifth Ava at "YN. Y. 10020 j
e rauls iKe op . (212) aie 33) Toll Fre outside |
State (800) 0
: e .
Box 899 Lexington, Va. 24450 : 11 N. New St., Staunton ° 7 fend ig ider CN of ha vest Youth |
ares [9 Euro 8
° Phone 886-1310 . to welt teers :
* ® me
@ PAUL Now Excepting All @ = | gtroet i
ae... ee, eel °¢ BIKE REPAIRS at ¢ | City
$ Sears’ Lexington Store ; | State Zip .
bad : Pick-Up Every Wednesday . | My travel agent is i
RE ° Returned On Wednesday. : | i
e@ Also New 10 Speeds Batavus e | IGE: Ai ge We
= : : 1 1 z w a ¢ ied
Bikes For Sale. | *) i
be State MA eka ; ; | A NE Ss |
C9OLOHHOHSOHHOSS OOH SESESE®S

 

 
