 

Pre are to miss class: Ma Ma ness is  

Neill ‘mupari has walted all week for the brackets to come out. Now he's breaking down ﬁre hasfﬁrst ‘ I _
round matchups and giving you a look at who can make a run to the Final Four. “J

Sports / Pagans”,

  

ASHINGTON LEEUNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

STUDENTS AND

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2008

BY THE FOR THE STUDENTSISINCE

1397 VOLUME cXI,NUMBER 16

Organizations work to eradicate racist, homophobic language

 

By Allison chopln and Wes
0’Dell

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR AND STAFF
WRITER

A law school student organization
is asking the university to ban ‘hate
speech.’

The group, Outlaw, works to pro-
mote awareness and acceptance of
Gay-Lesbian-Bigendered-Transsexu-
al (GLBT) individuals.

Executive Chair John Martin re-
cently went before the Student Af-
fairs Committee>(SAC), an organiza-
tion of students, administrators and
faculty, to lay out his plan.

Said Martin in a prepared state-
ment: “Basically, I have asked SAC
to create a policy that would prohibit
a narrow class of extremely degrad-
ing and dangerous verbal conduct at
the University.”

Martin calls these terms “hate
speech,” and his proposal would ban
“the use of slurs, epithets, and clearly
derogatory and degrading language”
that can be considered harassment on
the basis of race, religion, gender, or
sexual orientation.

His proposal as it stands would

include a ban on using “the n-word
for African-Americans or the c-word
in reference to women, among other
things,” he said, calling this only “a
working deﬁnition.”

Martin added that he and the SAC
will likely “tighten up” the deﬁnition
to specify what exactly qualiﬁes as
hate speech.

sual” use of homophobic and racial
slurs on campus.

“[The common use of slurs] has
created an environment at W&L
where in the past harassment and
even violence have taken place,” said
Martin.

According to Martin, “an envi-
ronment pervaded by hate speech”

“People don ’t understand the connotations of [ cer-

tain ‘hate speech ’] words...we live in a very conser-

vative and homophobic campus. ’

THERESA DOUGHERTY, Gay-Stralght Alllance Treasurer

“The ﬁnal policy will probably
implicitly take context into account
as well,” he said.

Martin characterizes his proposal
as a way to “close the gap” in W&L’s
harassment policy by “prohibiting
hate speech even if it is not directed
at a particular individual.”

The genesis for the plan was what
Martin describes as the “almost ca-

1

has cultivated a mindset that sees no
problem with this type of derogatory
language.

He would like to show “in a very
public way” that this behavior is not
acceptable.

While Martin’s has only had in-
formal discussions with Outlaw’s
undergraduate counterpart, the Gay-
Straight Alliance, the GSA promises

to support the policy should SAC
adopt it.

“People don’t understand the con-
notations of [certain ‘hate speech’]
words,” said GSA Treasurer Theresa
Dougherty. “We live in a very conser-
vative and homophobic campus.”

Martin agrees: “There may be
some students who oppose the policy
because they often use hate speech...
The policy aims to end this kind of
behavior, and these students will have
to face the reality that hate speech is
not acceptable here.”

While he concedes student reac-
tion is hard to predict, Martin is con-
ﬁdent his plan will garner the support
of the campus.

He also warns against inaction,
stating that the refusal to create such a
policy “could set the stage for a slow
erosion of existing policies that could
set the ‘University back ten years in
terms of public image, recruiting, and
campus climate.”

Martin predicts that nothing will
change unless a rule is enacted. Sim-
ply educating students with the tra-
ditions of honor and civility has not
been effective.

“We must address this issue

through policy because students are
not ending this behavior on their own,
and education is valuable but has be-
gun to reach the limits of its audience
and its efﬁcacy,” he said.

Dougherty, however, believes that
the students themselves are capable
of making a difference, with or with-
out a policy in place.

While SAC ’s deliberations contin-
ue, she encourages students to make
hate speech socially unacceptable.

“You can discourage your friends
from using homophobic speech. If
someone makes a joke about some-
one else being a ‘fag’ or something
being ‘gay’...the association is that
‘gay’ is bad. That’s something we’re
working to eliminate,” she said.

Dougherty also encourages stu-
dent to participate in GSA’s upcom-
ing “Gay? Fine by me” campaign.
The GSA will be handing out free t-
shirts bearing the slogan in late April
to promote tolerance on campus.

Said Dougherty: “That’s kind of
putting yourself out there as a sup-
porter of the GLBT community—and
showing that ‘gay’ is not a derogatory
word.”

‘ Journalism majors, do not despair!

NPR Managing Editor envisions future of news, broadcasts hope

By Robert Wason
STAFF WRITER

teresting web strategies” will be vital
for the success of modern news pro-
grams.

Because of the convergence of print
and broadcast media with the Internet,
websites often incorporate writing, au-
dio, and video segments, and the role
of the journalist has become much
more complex.

Duffy suggested that above all, it
is important for journalists to “think

news industry.

_Duffy began his lecture by address-
ing the “changes that have been wreak-
ing havoc in newsrooms.”

While denying the widespread be-
lief that today’s younger generation
“just does not read,” Duffy explained
that the age group “is reading in dif-
ferent ways.”

The Internet, which has had a tre-
mendous impact on the process of
mass communication, is forcing ma-

- jor news programs to re-examine their
strategies ‘for producing high quality
material that is also engaging.

Duffy reassured the audience in
saying, “We shouldn’t despair. There presents many p0sSjbj[j[jes_ ”
is an interest; we just need to be more
creative.”

Although admitting that “[the in-
dustry] does not know what is going
to happen next,” Duffy emphasized
his belief that the fate of the news will story require,” and then “tell the story
ultimately be determined by the Inter- in that way,” rather than insisting on
net. incorporating multimedia elements

Although he dismissed the idea that that might not ﬁt with the story.

“the New York Times will be com- According to Professor Brian Rich-
pletely electronic in ﬁve years” as an ardson, head of the journalism de-
exaggeration, Duffy asserted that “in— partment, the rise of the Internet has

had a profound effect on the process
of journalism education. He shared
that Washington and. Lee developed a
“fully multimedia” program ten years
ago in order to meet the demands of
the changing ﬁeld.

Richardson emphasized the inﬂu-
ence that the Intemet has on the cur-
rent state of the news. “A fair number
of [W&L] grads are headed to news
programs with websites,” he said.

journalism students will work in the
future.

However, Duffy expressed mixed
feelings about the lntemet, calling it
“the social media genie [that] is out of
the bottle.”

'He ultimately suggested that, if
properly monitored, the web could
become the dominant source for news
information that is both accurate and
entertaining. He lamented that most of
the content found on the lntemet is in-
ferior and unreliable when compared
to that of a “good newspaper.” He said
that the public, however, is willing to
sacriﬁce quality in favor of a free, fast,
and interactive media experience.

Although Duffy stated that there
are no good examples of news orga-
nizations that are currently “getting it
right,” he did express optimism. “All
the industries are trying to go to the
same place,” he said.

According to Duffy, while the fu-
ture of news is uncertain, creative ex-
perimentation and dedication to the re-
sponsibilities of journalism will yield
the best results.

. While journalists around the coun-
try are despairing over the future of
journalism,’ National Public Radio
Managing Editor Brian Duffy isn’t
buying into the doom and gloom. _

If Duffy is correct, the comments
will surely come as a relief to the stu-
dent journalists who spend each spring
fretting over whether they’ll be able to
ﬁnd a job after graduation.

Duffy delivered the keynote speech
for Washington and Lee’s 45thInsti—
tute of Ethics in Journalism on Friday.

He spoke to students, professors,
and media professionals about “Divin—
ing a Brighter Future for News.”

Duffy, who took over at NPR in
October, spent nearly 20 years at U.S.
News and World Report. He was the
magazine’s editor from 2000 until
October. He has also worked at the
Washington Post and Wall Street Jour-
nal as investigations editor.

Following a humorous introduc-
tion from Professor Edward Wasser-
man, Duffy presented his opinion on
the present and future conditions of the

“We shouldn ’t despair. These is an interest [in

news]; we just need to be more creative... The Internet

BRIAN DUFFY‘ Natlonal Publlc Radio Managlng Edltor

about the story,” ask “what does the In relation to journalism educa-
tion, Duffy said that is necessary to
“teach journalists to think about what
the story requires, and then put it in a
place where it is accessible and enter-
taining.”

“The lntemet [presents] many pos-
sibilities,” he said in response to where

 

  

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

uulvensmr UBRARY
wasnmaron a. use umvensmr

“WM iAE23“175flﬂR

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2008

opinions

 

 

Don’t force apology

Forgive the “Bracket” writers but don ’z‘ forget

To the university community,

I write in response to “The Bracket,” a
recent column in the Distractions section of
The Trident, and the community’s response
to it.

First, I applaud the response, by senior
administrators to the column. While they
justly excoriated the authors and their edi-
tor, they do not call for external control or
sanction of The Trident. In refraining from
doing so, they recognize the necessity for a
free, vigorous and unfettered press in any
community, even when its practitioners in-
dulge in wretched excess and pointlessly
hurtful behavior.

If ever there were an occasion for senior_
administrators to be tempted to exert exter-
nal control over student media, it would be
in the face of a column that, at the least,
ﬂirts with the legal torts of libel, invasion
of privacy and intentional inﬁiction of emo-
tional distress. That our president, provost
and deans have responded by appealing to
conscience rather than control is laudable.

Second, while a free press and free ex-
pression are the cornerstones of democracy
both nationally and on an intensely local
level, whether what happened is either le-
gally defensible by those who wrote and
edited, or legally actionable by those they
harmed, are both beside the point. There is
a difference, recognized by practically all
working journalists, between what we can
do and what we ought to do. That is a ﬁrst

principle of our teaching in the Department
of Journalism and Mass Communications;
like others in this community, we live in
hope that Washington and Lee’s indepen-
dent student media will honor it.

From the First Amendment arises a pro-
fessional obligation for journalists to moni-
tor our institutions of power, to provide a
forum for those who speak truth to power
and to provide the truthful information that
is the lifeblood of democratic self-deterrni-
nation.

In doing so, journalists frequently cause
harm to those they monitor. In the service of
their audiences, journalists employ a calcu-
lus that measures the harm they do against
the necessary information they provide. In
their obligation to those about whom they
write, they attempt to determine how vital

‘information can be published and harm

minimized. Such reasoning presupposes
the freedom to exercise judgment as moral
actors rather than constraint by powerful
external forces.

As journalists we are not in the business
of defending the indefensible. It is easy to
defend the sanctity of free expression; it is
impossible to defend The Trident column.

By any measure of public necessity, it
fails. By the calculus of harm versus bene-
ﬁt, it fails. By the moral obligation to mini-
mize damage, it fails. As careful reporting,
it fails. As satire, it fails. (That its few de-
fenders have variously tried to argue that it
is both factual reporting and satire negates

either claim.)

It clearly is not journalism. But, un-
fortunately, to say that such work sprang
parentless from some fertile sophomoric
imagination is inaccurate. Our airwaves
and the intemet are full of so-called pro-
fessionals indulging in politically polar-
ized food ﬁghts passed off as journalism;
sadly, the authors of The Trident piece can
readily ﬁnd a kind of role model among
those grown-up practitioners. That does
not excuse their behavior; they should have
known better than to emulate such dreck.

Finally, I offer an observation on the
heart and soul of this wonderful but bruised
community. In response to the column,
many have cited President Lee’s values of
civility and honor, and wonder where in this
incident those values can be recognized.

I submit that honor lies in our belief as
a community that those who caused the
hurt should be trusted now to do the right
thing, rather than be forced to. I submit that
civility lies in our embracing the value of
redemption.

I believe President Lee would agree;
he was allowed to set our course as a com-
munity only because those who sat in judg-
ment of him believed that redemption was
appropriate.

Sincerely,
Brian Richardson, Department Head
Journalism and Mass Communications

To the Washington and Lee
community,

We would like to support
the recent statement made by
the Student Executive Com-
mittee regarding the adjudica-
tion of sexual assault on the
Washington and Lee campus.

We are encouraged that
this statement indicates sig-
niﬁcant progress on the issue
of sexual assault and that it re-
iterates there is zero tolerance
for perpetrators of sexual vio-
lence within our community
of honor and trust,

We hope that the student
body knows the range of re-
sources available on our cam-
pus for victims of sexual as-
sault.

Numerous women and men
have been sexually assaulted
over the past few years, but no
survivors have brought cases
to the EC or SFHB (Student-
Faculty Hearing Board) for
adjudication.

Students who wish to move
forward to a formal proceed-
ing should know that both the
EC and SFHB have jurisdic-
tion over sexual assault cases,
and both bodies hold the pow-
er to dismiss a student found
guilty of committing sexual

Speak, fight rape

End Sexual assualt with EC trials

assault.

The decision to go to a for-
mal proceeding is an incredi-
bly diﬂicult one, and there are
other ways to achieve infor-
mal resolution (i.e., speaking
with a CAIR).

It is our sincere wish that
we continue to move forward
and grow into a community
where women and men do not
feel silenced on speaking out
about sexual assault.

The values of honor and
civility that our community
holds dear should apply to all
arenas of life as a student at
W&L: all students within this
community of trust deserve
to feel as if they can speak
out against a sexual assault
without risk of social conse-
quences.

May this step encourage
discussion and awareness in
our community so that one
day there is an end to sexual
assault at W&L.

Please email us with any
questions or concerns (lar-
sonw@wlu.edu and hughes1@
wlu.edu).

Bill Larson, ‘O8
Paten Hughes, ‘08
Co-Chair, lin4
President, SPEAK '

  

 V1 C) LEN (‘E

and Lee University

MCCAULEY—BENNER

  

 

refuse to choose
V_gomgn Deserve Better
than Abortion

l"IEI\/\Il\lIS"I'S I”‘()I{ I.IFI:'.<)r5_;

 

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

opinions

. Beware the company

People assume your friends (or political advisors) represent your feelings, ideas

0

By Grace Andrews
STAFF WRITER

For those of you who do not
know, it was recently revealed
that Sen. Barack Obama’s preach-
er, Rev. Jeremiah Wright, gave a
questionable sermon the Sun-
day after Sept. 11 that suggested
Americas had brought terrorist
attacks upon themselves by act-
ing as terrorists in other nations
and supporting injustice (i.e. Hi-
roshima and apartheid South Af-
rica.)

Wright has also given other
sermons in which he has con-
demned the U.S. for treating
minorities as second-class citi-
zens. More recently, he compared
Obama to Jesus and criticized
Sen. Hillary Clinton.

As a result of the public out-
cry concerning these teachings,
Obama has openly criticized
Wright’s statements and removed
him from his presidential cam-
paign.

Despite the fact that Wright is
no longer a part of Obama’s cam-
paign, Obama states that Wright

remains a close family friend
whose opinions aren’t represen-
tative of how he [Obama] feels.
He stressed Wright’s champion-
ing against homophobia and sex-
ism in the black community and
focus on community service.

Sadly, this same situation has
occurred before. Geraldine Fer-
raro, a speaker at this year’s Mock
Con, was criticized for making a
statement that said Obama would
not be ahead in the race for the
White House if he were not
black. As a result, she stepped
down and is no longer an aide to
Clinton because of a fear that she
would bring bad publicity to the
campaign trail.

The fact the Ferraro herself
was a trailblazer and advocate
for minorities in politics has been
quickly forgotten and replaced
with a new “racist” image, re-
gardless of her attempts to dispel
such ideas. Ferraro’s dismissal
was requested by many in the
party and came after Obama ex-
pelled unpaid foreign policy ad-
visor Samantha Power after she
was quoted by Scotland’s nation-

editorial
University cannot force-feed tolerance

Students should engage in dialogue to change campus values on hate speech

John Martin, president of the
Washington and Lee Law School
group, Outlaw, wants the Student
Affairs Committee to ban what he
calls hate speech.

The proposed.ban would make
it illegal for students to use racial
or sexist slurs.

The words are certainly offen-
sive in the extreme. No student
should ever be on the receiving
end of such hateful language.

The words are also protected
under the First Amendment.

W&L, as a private university,
is not obligated to extend free
speech rights to students, but if
the university wishes to be taken
seriously in the academic world,
this proposed ban will never be-
come law on our campus.

Martin should remember
that the Supreme Court has long
frowned upon laws that restrict
unpleasant or unpopular speech
and actions. In National Socialist

. Party of America v. Skokie (1 9 7 8),

the court ruled that a small Illinois
village could not ban the Ameri-

can Nazi Party from holding a
march through the town.

Texas v. Johnson (1989) said
that flag burning, an act most of
us find repugnant, is a protected
form of speech.

Unfortunately for Martin, ra-
cial and ethnic slurs ~ unless they
directly incite violent action — are
also protected speech.

al newspaper, calling Clinton “a
monster”.

To be quite fair, I’m almost
sure that every single one of the
statements I’ve discussed has to
be heard in its proper context to
accurately understand what the
speaker was trying to say.

While that is not a luxury af-
forded to those who play the

the candidates at all, it’s impor-
tant to see the roles that friends,
advisors and aides can play. Now,
the question is, “Do they truly
represent the ideas and feelings
of the presidential candidates?”
Let’s put it into practice here
at W&L. How many of us have
that friend who is always saying
the wrong things to anything and

To be quite honest, I have a few friends that

I may need to ‘dismiss ’ from the campaign

known as ‘my life ’or even ﬁre them as social

advisors and keep them as personal advisors.

 

game of politics, is it one we af-
ford each other in our daily lives?
Even though these respective in-
dividuals are no longer involved
in the campaign, they are still
active in the lives of the candi-
dates.

Regardless of how much you
like either candidate, if you like

hopes to see.

The proposal ignores a valu-
able lesson: you can’t dictate mo-
rality to college students. Ihat’s
why curfews, single-sex dorms
and other old-fashioned traditions
have been left by the wayside.

it’s our hope that this campus
can also leave offensive and in-
sulting language by the wayside

The proposal ignores a valuable lesson: you

can ’t dictate morality to college students.

That 3 why curfews, single—sex dorms and

other old-fashioned traditions have died out.

 

Again, W&L does not have to
grant students full First Amend-
ment protection. But the univer-
sity should realize that an outright
prohibition, even on obscene and
offensive words, will not create
the change in attitude that Martin

New in
Career Services

U‘P‘Da‘l'fE
you
are on:

“‘v’\IA.SHI".NGT().N Ahli}  EJ'N'I'V’f?.‘RS_IT"t’

CAREERQSERVICES

as well, but Martin’s proposal is
not the right way to change the
current atmosphere.

The problem on our campus is
that too many students stand qui-
etly aside when a peer uses racist,
sexist or homophobic language.

everything that has breath and
can be offended? Do these indi-
viduals represent you in every ca-
pacity? If so, how much of what
they say should affect you?

Let me take you back a few
years. Imagine a Baby Grace, just
as sassy, but a little lighter and
shorter with pigtails and miss-

Few students are willing to con-
front a peer and say that some-
thing is offensive.

W&L likes to portray itself
as a school that’s in the business
of developing well-rounded stu-
dents, people who do well in the
classroom but also embody vir-
tues like tolerance, honesty and
courtesy.

That’s a ﬁne goal, but the uni-
versity should realize that those

values cannot be force-fed to.

students. The values can only
emerge if the entire community
stands behind them.

Martin’s right. We do have a
culture of homophobia and intol-
erance on this campus. We salute
his efforts to change that culture.

We cannot, however, support a
regulation that will stiﬂe student
speech, no matter how offensive
the speech.

Change will come through
honest and open discourse, not
another restriction that the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee sends
down from above.

wag. "t—ll«£;;9‘:"tt;"ff. emcee ts

o eﬁrcts

li‘~JlKcll 20, 21,22, 2008
. 7:30 .
I0l’rt:SGt’tl%€lh’KE

LEljfE"STltIrLL

2008
.» fl/‘’l?E Its”? ‘l7_}X£;"CTC'~r<’.S

Lauren Sapikowski, ‘O8
Helen Coupe, "09

Gabrielle dc Courcy, ’09
Tabitha King, ‘()9
Lisa Rcppeil. ‘09

you keep

ing teeth sitting at one of those
delightfully small grade school
desks that elementary schools
have. Now, imagine some other
Baby (insert the name of grade
school here) talking to Baby
Grace (BG), instead of doing his/
her work. A

All of a sudden, the teacher
asks Baby Grace to go to time-out
for talking. The only problem is
that BG wasn’t talking, only sit-
ting close to ‘O1 Baby Big Mouth
(BBM) and slightly listening.

Is it really fair for BG to get
punished for what BBM did?
I think not. Maybe BG should
have told BBM to shut the heck
up before she pushed him off of
the monkey bars during recess.

To be quite honest, I have a
few friends that I may need to
“dismiss” from the campaign
known as my life or even ﬁre them
as social advisors and keep them
as personal advisors. Doesn’t that
sound a bit laughable?

Honestly, I’m not quite sure
what my stance on the issue is,
but I think that we may want to
scrutinize our own lives as closely

as we do the lives of the presiden-
tial candidates. If it’s unaccept-
able for them to have individuals
around them making question-
able comments, then maybe the
same should apply to us.

I completely recognize that
politicians operate in a bigger
forum and have a greater range
of inﬂuence, but are such double
standards fair?

We’re all humans and make
mistakes, but maybe the saying
“birds of a feather ﬂock together”
is true, and, then again, maybe it
should be “birds of different and
similar feathers sometimes ﬂock
together but aren’t actually rep-
resentative of individual birds in
the ﬂock or even the ﬂock as a
collective unit.”

So maybe that would be too
long to actually become a saying,
but I implore all of my readers to
ponder the questions that I have
raised.

Maybe the old adage of “be-
ware the company you keep” is
still applicable in today’s world;
then again, maybe it needs a
modern interpretation.

— »-~—-—— «-~———- WASHINGTON AND LEE Umvnzsmr

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING

ASST. MANAGING
NEWS

ASST. NEWS
OPINIONS
ARTS&L|FE
SPORTS

EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
COPYEDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

JACOB GEIGER
JESSICA SHAW
GRACE WANG
ALLISON CHOPIN
STACEY GRIJALVA
SACHA RAAB
MICHAEL KEENAN
WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN

GRACE ANDREWS
KEVIN CORN

ADAM LEWIS

AMOR NEILL THUPARI
ROBERT WASON
RUSS WEEMS

LARA JORDAN
LENORA NUNNLEY
MORGAN HARRIS
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
R/NG—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, but is
otherwise independent. Questions or concerns
about the Phi should be addressed to the
editors at phi@wlu.edu or to the Media Board
at mediaboard@w|u.edu.
an independent, student—run editorial oversight
committee working with all media outlets on

the Washington & Lee campus.
will remain confidential. THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Media Board is

All inquiries

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059

Mirror) Etltti M22’

.e‘tir.{_ior tff‘rt;%r.2’it I£i.‘rt.r*rfs. "

Tirribar Ridge _Auto Center
iii E 9 ‘lv"alley l’il<e
i..,e-x.i.ii.p;toa.. VA 2-145$}

{set}; -ta-'3-1997

ES TECHMICIAIQS

i3t>r{?:igt3 arid? fmmestit: Rep.airs
tfliil. ttl'ti’:t3§;_';C aritl lube, A.=-’C.‘, €L‘omptrt'er ftiiagnostics,
:2‘ .{i1tgi'a-e Reptiir, Brakes,
Feet Et‘§jt3€~ii£}i’E f”_i£:1"t=‘l€Z{f, '"l”ransai*aission Service,
(T,?a<::l21.n4t .l?3s.1.*~,;.lri, Mirror anti M:»;=i:j(:si“ Tur'3t*< -tt}_)E">.
’-Wszr trait p:‘mr.it'§t: factor}; ae§'.li0r'i;:eti maintenance
w§tE3.ctt1t ’is‘{.1l<.lit‘t 3,3; yatrr mtmtt.fa.e'tat»t:’s warranty.

repterl

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

MONDAY,

arts&|ife

 

DJ Paul and Juicy] rocked a crowd of W&L students, as well as local Rockbridge
highschool students, Wednesday night. The popular hip hop/ rap group from Mem-
phis, Tennessee, has won both Grammy and Academy awards and has released

11 albums, two including guests, since 1994. They have a new album coming out
June 1. They even have their own television show, “Adventures in HoIlyhood.” Many
students joined the singers on stage, dancing in the background and showing their
enjoyment. Happily, Three 6 Mafia managed to get our name correct this year, as op-
posed to Busta Rhymes’ “William and Lee!” The group definitely received an enthou-
siastic welcome from the students who attended.

W&L taken over by the Mafia

Students ﬂocked to pavillion to see popular Three 6 Maﬁa

 

MORGAN HARRIS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER’

Correction 0!! Exchange & Lube
Last week's article ,

3'°°""“‘e Ch‘ 754 North Lee Hwy.

Omega Chili cook-

off reported that Across from Tractor Supply

the event raised

$1 2,000. The event
raised $1,200. The Phi
regrets the error.

540-463-5020
Save $1.00 — Show W&L ID

    

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY

l

  
  

 

   

Washington Pro

experience and Georgetown academic credit this 5'. in

June 2—August 9,  

ain experience that can help launch your legal career this  in 

Washington, D.C. Enroll in Georgetown University's Semester in Washington
Program in Law and see the legal and public policy process from the front row
j;a§,anVinte‘rn on Capitol Hill, in other areas of government, or at a law firm,
corporation, a lobbying ﬁrm, or non-profit organization in the metropolitan
Washington D.C. area. In the process, you'll gain academic credits while you
‘study the legislative process and explore ethics, leadership, and social justice as
they relate to the law. You're invited to join a community of achievers in Washington
this summer and open new doors to opportunities for your future career.

0 Work as a legal inter politan Washington, D.C.

   
  

  

Georgetown University.

ENROLL TODAY

Visit scs.georgetown.edu/washington or call 202.687.8200

to enroll or ﬁnd out when a representative will visit your campus.

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY

Setnester.,i_n,.. .
Washington Program = y

 
  
  

In Lavv 

Get Washingtoni.internsh’p
experience and Georgetown academic credit this summe
June 2—August»_9.,, 200

ain experience that can help launch your legal career this summer in Washingtoh,..0.:C.
Enroll in Georgetown University's Semester in Washington Program in Law and see th '
legal and public policy process from the front rowas an intern on Capitol Hill. in other area“ , 
of government, or at a law ﬁrm, corpor t’ n, a l”ol:ihying firm, or non-proﬁt orgariizialion in  i
the metropolitan Washington DC. area. I be rocfess, you'll gain academic credits while you
study the legislative process and explore th s lead. ship, and social just-ice as they rééli e
to the law. You :. .. I ° '  A 0 ’ summe and
.0F1en new doorst A A

 

 

     
 

 

 
  
  

ENROHO v
Visit scs.georgetown.edu/washington or call 202.687.8200

to enroll or ﬁnd out when a representative will visit your campus.

Position Announcement

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

The Washington and Lee Ofﬁce of Undergraduate Admissions an-
nounces an opening for Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities include
managing a recruitment territory and travel schedule, conducting group
information sessions and interviews, and evaluating admission applica-
tions. Other duties will be assigned based on the selected candidate’s
background and skills. Evening and weekend work is expected during
the academic year, especially during peak application reading and travel
seasons.

A Bachelor’s degree, a valid driver’s license, and the willingness to
commit to the position for a minimum of two years are required. Strong
communication skills and demonstrated organizational abilities are ex-
pected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to work as
part of a highly successful admissions team, yet will be capable of ore-
ative self-direction. Preference will be given to W&L graduates.

Interested candidates should complete a W&L Application for Employ-
ment, available at http://humanresources.wlu.edu/forms, and e-mail it to
jobs@Wlu.edu along with a cover letter, resume, and the names of three

references no later than Wednesday, March 26, 2008.

 

MARCH 16, 2008

  

Semester  pp

  

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 5

 

sports  

 Umpires are heroes amidst corruption

Though negativity pervades sports and politics, baseball referees provide glimmer of hope for disadvantaged children

By Adam Lewis
c 0 L u M N I s T
As good as the Daytona 500
and the Kentucky Derby are, they
don’t come close to matching the
race that has taken over American
news in the past several months:
T “Sports ﬁgures vs. Politicians:

. §Who can cheat more?” Recently,

ithese two American realms have
{boasted the most corrupt people
; since Enron’s last board meet-
f ing. Between Roger Clemens,

the Patriots and Kelvin Samp-
3 son in sports, and Mark Foley,
' James West and now Eliot Spitzer
‘in politics, news headlines are
‘ clogged with corruption, and it’s

almost become a race to see who
f; will cheat next. “Right now, it
‘ looks like politics has just nudged

L COLUM NIST
I’m going to be honest, we cut
 it extremely close to ‘press time
' given the 6:00pm start to CBS’s
, Selection Show on Sunday night;
7 nevertheless, in the following few
paragraphs I hope to give you a
: brief glimpse of what to expect in
3 the 2008 Men’s NCAA Division-I
; Basketball Tournament, an event
* that year-in and year-out proves

V itself as one of the most captivat-
ingly special sporting events in

. I the world. No one can argue about

. the pure passion, raw excitement,
3 and unadulterated human emo-
_ tion that are annually exhibited
3 in the NCAA Tournament. With
‘ that being said, let’s take a look
i at some contenders, Cinderellas
1 and intriguing matchups to look
_ forward to in the Big Dance:
{ The Contenders:

1. Each No. 1 seed: These teams

. ; each earned a No. 1 seed for a

its way into ﬁrst with the old ‘El-
iot Spitzer sex scandal’ technique
coming around the turn, but sports
is right on its tail, just waiting for
the ﬁnal-stretch push of a future
Congress investigation. It could
be a photo-ﬁnish!”

Anyway, what I’m driving at
is that sports and politics (particu-
larly sports, being that this is a
sports article) have been poisoned
with negative media to the point
where the “good” stories, when
they exist, are overshadowed by
the aforementioned corruption-
centered ones. It is for this reason
that I am taking the opportunity
to acknowledge the efforts of a
group of people who make a liv-
ing by arbitrating cheating, and
who have painted the concept of

reason. Each team won its confer-
ence tournament and possesses
the talent and depth to make a
legitimate run for the National
Championship. Taking a look
at the bracket, East No. 1 UNC
shouldn’t have trouble until at
least the Elite Eight with either
Louisville or Tennessee, but ei-
ther -way the Heels should have
more than enough ﬁrepower
to win. In the South, Memphis
should quickly run through
teams, including a weaker than
normal, but always Izzo-prepared
Michigan State squad. Texas, in
a “neutral” location of Houston,
poses a big threat, but Memphis
has beaten big time opponents be-
fore. Ben Howland’s UCLA team
looks prime for a third consecu-
tive Final Four coming from the
West bracket, and I’m not so sure
Duke, Xavier, Drake, or any other
team can match the Bruins on
both ends of the ﬂoor. Big 12 win-

purity with a “BLUE” stroke.

Last Wednesday, “BLUE for
Kids,” a charity organization
founded by Major League Base-
ball umpires, hosted the 2008
World Series of Bowling in Tam-
pa, Fla. This event featured vari-
ous celebrities, umpires and other
baseball people as bowlers, in an
effort to provide 1,000 at-risk or
seriously ill children with a once-
in—a-lifetime baseball experience,
in which they would have the
opportunity to attend a baseball
game, meet players, take pictures
and receive autographs.

In general, BLUE, which
stands for “Big League Umpir-
ing Experience,” operates as an
experience-based charity orga-
nization, much like a “Make-A-

ner Kansas headlines the Midwest
bracket and really shouldn’t get
tested until fairly deep in the tour-
nament by a seasoned George-
town team, plus Coach Bill Self
will once again be looking to get
the March Madness monkey off

0 his back.

2." Louisville: Pitino’s boys are
back in top form after ﬁnally get-
ting healthy‘and bringing back
David Padgett and Terrence Wil-
liams into the lineup. You can’t
underestimate how good the Car-
dinals are, winners of nine out of
their last 11, including wins over
Pitt, Notre Dame, Villanova, and
Georgetown. Assuming they can
beat a tough Tennessee team in
the Sweet 16, the numbers say
they could run with the Tar Heels
and at least give them a good ﬁght
for a spot in San Antonio

3.Texas: No Durant? No prob-
lem. Say hello to arguably the
best scoring point guard in the

Wish” foundation, for baseball.
During the season, participating
umpires host groups of typically
ill, underprivileged or orphaned
children for a behind-the-scenes
look at the job of an umpire (ob-
viously neglecting the occasional
spit or profane action). And for
kids who may be unable to enjoy
a game ﬁrst-hand, these umpires
travel to nearby hospitals visiting
children, often providing them
with specially-made gifts. Over-
all, BLUE combines the help of.
numerous umpires and baseball-
afﬁliated people to enhance the
lives of kids in need, if just for
one day, through baseball.

Not to discredit all the other
charities associated with sports,
because there are a number of

nation, DJ. Augustine. Between
him and his supporting cast of
Connor Atchley and A.J. Abrams,
the fans in Austin are excited
about the prospects of a Final
Four. Big wins away from home
include dominating performances
at UCLA and on a neutral court
against Tennessee, meaning that
they are battle tested if Memphis
comes calling later on.

Potential Cinderellas you may see
on the second weekend:

- l.Winthrop: After shocking Notre

Dame in the ﬁrst round of last
year’s tourney, the Big South
Champs retum~ once again to a
familiar spot, matched up against
a major conference stalwart and
No. 4 seed Wash. St. The Eagles
return veterans Michael Jenkins
and Taj McCullough, who have
plenty of tournament experience,
so don’t be too surprised if they
shock Wazzu and then beat the
winner of Notre Dame/George

Eliott O’Brien
Recreation

Dane Boston
Religious Life

Aw*ards Gala
Wcd1resrlay,lVIa1‘°cl1 l9tl1  6:30 PM
Lee Chapel
Receplioii 3.: Mllsirt will follow in the
Elrotl Colnlnons Living Roorn

excellent ones, but I ﬁnd BLUE
to be the most unique. In an age
when athletes are making more
money than ever, it is the umpires
who step into the forefront to sup-
port this noble cause. In an age
when athletes are given as many
advantages in life as the President
of the United States, it is the um-
pires who use their limited lever-
age in sports to provide these kids
with a life-enhancing experience.
And in an age when athletes are
regarded as gods and goddesses to
young children, it is the umpires
who emerge as the true heroes.

I am not blaming every sports
ﬁgure for lack of commendable
action, because many are in-
volved in ways that are extremely
respectable. And I’m not blaming

Mason.

2.Drake: I know they’re a No. 5
seed, but they still have to run
through potentially UCONN,
UCLA, and Duke in order to make
their ﬁrst ever trip to the Final
Four. The Bulldogs play extreme-
ly disciplined basketball under
guard Adam Emmenecker, and
they would love to get a chance to

— prove themselves against the big

guns of college basketball
Unfortunately due to lack of
time, I’m only going to have to
mention other potential glass slip-.
per candidates in St. J oseph’s (N 0.
ll in the East), St. Mary’s (No. 10
in the South), and my bracketolo-
gist Mike Daly’s special: West
Virginia (No. 7 in the West).
Intriguing First Round Matchups:
1. No. 6 USC vs. No. 11 Kansas
St.: 0.]. Mayo vs. Michael Beas-
ley. Two dynamic freshmen lead-
ing their overwhelmed coaches
into the Big Dance. Maybe we

Many Awards such as the UnSung Hero and Decade Award will be presented.
Everyone is welcome to attend.
‘ All Student organizations are welcome to present awards.
Email bgardner@wlu.edu to confirm.

S'L1lZJII'1ll'.}F0UI‘ votes for the UnSung Hero Award @ litta:.=’}*’www,wlu.edi_1;":»:Si‘92-’l.§rrnl
lloting Ends March 17", 2008 at noon

media sources for seemingly cov-

ering only the negatives of sports '

when clearly positive aspects ex-
ist, because let’s face it, big news
is often bad news. But I am writ-
ing to expose the great accom-
plishments of people in sports,
hoping that by chance, news or-
ganizations will do the same.

I think it is very ﬁtting that in
a world ﬁlled with cheaters, those
who regulate fairness in sports
are the ones who are taking ac-
tion. And to properly recognize
this, I think we all should take our
masks off, walk three feet in front
of home plate and twirl our point-
er ﬁngers around twice, indicating
that the effort of these umpires is
undoubtedly a “home run.”

real bracket: a quick look at the 2008 NCAA tournament

9 , By Neill Thupari

should just ask to see 40 minutes
of One-on-One between the two
of them. The winner would have a
tough test against a relentless Wis-
consin team in the next round.

2. No. 5 Clemson vs. No. 12 Vil-
lanova: Two big time schools
from big time conferences. There
will most deﬁnitely be conference
pride on the line. Each team could
spark a deep tournament run with
a hot start here,‘ so beware.

Once again, due to time con-
straints, a few probable and likely
matchups to look forward to down
the road: No. 3 Louisville vs. No.
2 Tennessee with the winner fac-
ing No. 1 UNC, No. 2 George-
town vs. No. 1 Kansas, and just
for the heck ofit, No. 3 Xavier vs.
No. 1 UCLA.

I’m sorry I couldn’t be more in
depth in my glance at the tourna-
ment, but rest assured l’ll be back
to discuss the tournament in com-
ing weeks. Enjoy the Madness.

  

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2008

sports

deck

 

MoN Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT Sun

vs. 3*
Baseball SW "°""°"°

3:00 pm. (DH) 12:00
pm.
at V3. V8- at vs.
Men’: Randolph Roanoke M300“ l-lampden- C8m°8|9
T°'“"‘ 4:00 p_m_ 4:00 p_m_ moo p.m. Sydney Melon
3:30 p.m. 10:00
vs. "3'
Macon/
wmmm,‘ ClandoIph/ sac
‘ronnls arr Wasq
4:00 p_m_ 4:00 pm:

V3. V8.
w0m°n’s Roanoke Mary Wash
I-“F0380 4:00 p.m. 2:oo p.m.

5
In c’VIlle at
ugh.’ vs. Greensboro:
Wooster 12:00 p.m.
Lacrosse Too P m
Frl-lay - Sunday
3°” Jekyll Iluand collegiate
at
Track 5'“°'V
lnvltatlona
March 20-22
3“""""""3 NCAA mu meet

 

numbers
61

Points scored by Austin Carr of Notre Dame against Ohio in the 1970
NCAA tournament, the most ever by a player in a NCAA tournament

game.

41

Personal fouls committed by Dayton against Illinois in the 1952 tour-

nament, the most ever by a team in a NCAA tournament game.

.29

Number of players used by Arizona State and Loyola Marymount in
their 1980 NCAA tournament game, the most ever by two teams in the

tournament.

3

Number of Utah State players who scored against San Francisco in
their 1964 NCAA tournament game, the fewest players to score in a

tournament game for a single team ever.

2

The number of games the University of Georgia won Saturday during
the SEC tournament after a tornado hit the Georgia Dome Friday. The

Bulldogs beat Arkansas Sunday to win a spot in the NCAA tournament.

 

box

“I obviously did not expect to take that shot or any

other shot at the end of the game. It came to me,
and I knew time was running out. Iput it up and it

went in.”

Arkansas Razorbacks’ center Steven Hill on his game-winning shot
against Tennesse. The basket was Hill's only score of the game, from
espn.com.

“If you can’t get the ball, you can’t score.

Wisconsin guard Michael Flowers on his defense of Michigan State’s
Drew Neltzel, from espn.com.

“I don't know. I'm not in the room. I’m not on
the committee. Wherever we're seeded, we'll go

play. ”

Tennessee Volunteers’ men's basketball coach Bruce Pearl on how
his team's seml-ﬂnal loss In the SEC tournament will affect their
seeding, from espn.com.

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

Smashing successes

 

Men is tennis stays undefeated in ODA

SPORTS EDITOR

s1ty.

 

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor
Senior Nat Estes returns a shot against Mary Wash-
lngton’s Randy Loden on Saturday.

C, notches ﬁrst non-conference win
By Michael Keenan * g

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team had its best
week of the season, maintaining its undefeated record in the
ODAC by defeating Lynchburg College on Wednesday and
recording its ﬁrst non-conference victory over Denison Uni-
versity on Friday before seeing its four-match winning streal‘
snapped on Saturday by 8th-ranked Mary Washington Univer-

On Wednesday, the Generals cruised past the Hornets 9-0.
After the duos of seniors Tim Ross and Stuart Sanford, seniors
Nat Estes and Seth Feibelman and senior Nelson Bunn and
sophomore Alex Brooke swept the doubles portion, the under-
classmen got their chance during the singles competition.

Freshman Morgan Hopson won the No. 1 singles match
without dropping a game to Kristian Richardson. Sophomore
Brent Meyers only dropped two games en route to his two-set
victory over Daniel Civis. Junior Jamie McCardell won No. 3
singles by default. Sophomore Cliff Gaddy and freshmen Tim
Watson and Will Hall rounded out the sweep for the Generals.

On Friday, the Generals knocked off Denison 6-2. The
Generals took a commanding 3-0 lead after sweeping the dou-
bles competition. Ross and McCardell teamed up to win No.
doubles 6-2, Feibelman and Estes took No. 2 doubles 8-3 and
Brooke and Sanford completed the sweep winning 8-5.

In the singles competition, Ross won convincingly in No. 1
singles, defeating Jordan Buehler 6-1, 6-4. The other matches
were much closer. Estes and Sanford both lost in third, set tie-
breakers which allowed Denison to get on the board. How-
ever, Fiebelman and McCardell won third and fourth singles
by scores of 6-4, 6-4 and 6-4, 7-6, to secure the 6-2 victory.

Saturday was a different story. The Eagles of Mary Wash-
ington came in ranked 8“‘ in the country and lived up to their
rating. The Eagles took two of three in the doubles competi-
tion and ﬁve of six in the singles competition. The Generals
didn’t go down without a ﬁght, though. The duo of F eibelman
and Estes won second doubles, defeating Evan Goff and Bryc‘
Parrish 8-4 and Meyers recorded the only singles victory by
defeating Kaz Murata 6-3, 6-2. Three of the singles match-
es went to a third set and the other two were decided by two
games or less in each set.

The Generals return to action Tuesday when they travel to-

Randolph College to take on the Wildcats at 4 p.m.

Women crush No. 9 Denison,

sweep ODAC opponents

By Michael Keenan
sponrs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team im-

proved to 8-0 this week with victories over ODAC oppo-
nents Hollins University and Lynchburg College as well
as 9th-ranked Denison University, its ﬁrst non-conference
foe of the spring season.

The Generals posted two victories on Wednesday, de-
feating Hollins, who is currently tied for 2nd in the ODAC
and Lynchburg. Neither team posed much of a threat as
the Generals swept both matches 9-0.

Four seniors — Kelly Will, Leah Weston, Rebecca Tim-
mis and Katie Duncan — and two juniors — Katie Tabb and
Meg Spalitta — traveled to Roanoke to down Hollins. All
won in straight sets, with four winning 6-0, 6-0.

Back in Lexington, seniors Rhodes Proctor and Lau-
ren Cook, sophomore Lyndsey Johansson, and freshmen
Virginia Dickinson, Catherine Reed, Crystal Spencer and
Lauren Dorsey blanked the Hornets for the team’s second
win of the day. The Generals surrendered only two games
in the nine matches.

On Friday, the Generals faced a top 10 team for the ﬁrst
time this spring when they took on Denison. The Generals
were more than up to the challenge, sweeping the doubles
competition and then taking ﬁve of six in the singles com-
petition.

In doubles play, the No. 1 and No. 2 matches were very
close. Tabb teamed with sophomore Lauren Caire to defeat
Denison’s top duo of Marta Drane and Kristin Cobb, 8-6.
Weston and Reed played extra to defeat Meghan Damico
and Kendra Murray in a tiebreak, 9-8.

In No. 3 doubles, Will and Dickinson cruised to an 8-
2 win over Erin Gorsich and Kristina Beilinson. On the
singles side, Tabb won the ﬁrst set convincingly before
dropping the second set 6-1 but came back to take the
third set 6-4, winning the match. Tabb’s win was followed
by straight set wins from Will, Caire, Weston and Spalitta,

leading to the General’s 8-1 win.

The women return to action Wednesday when they take
on Mary Washington University at home and then travel
to Randolph College to take on the Wildcats.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Freshman Virginia Dickinson serves during her 6-0, 6-0
victory over Lynchburg’s Elizabeth Eckert on Wednesday.

F&M steals victory with late OT goal '

Men stomp Hood but drops second game to ranked opponent in overtime

By Russ Weems
STAFF wnmzn

Another week, another heartbreaker for
the men’s lacrosse team.

The team travelled to Hood College
Monday and took on Franklin and Mar-
shall on Saturday at a neutral site.

On Monday, the Generals blew out
Hood College. The game was overwhelm-
ing one siding from start to ﬁnish, with the
Generals dominating nearly every facet of
the game. The Generals got out to a quick
5-0 lead in the ﬁrst quarter, never relin-
quished and ended up with a 15-1 victory.
The Generals nearly completed a shutout.
Hood didn’t get on the scoreboard until
there was 41 seconds remaining in the
contest. 10 W&L players scored and three
had multiple goals. »

The Generals dominance was lead by a
balanced attack. Will Englehart and Ned
Rider paced the team with 3 goals. Seth

Fishman recorded two. Harry St. John,
Drew Koeneman, Kevin Feeney, Deets
Hoffman, Justin Donati, Mark Wachtmeis-
ter, and Tyler Lenczuk also found the back
of the net for the Generals. Four Gener-
als had multiple assists. Connor Locke
played the ﬁrst three quarters in goal in
the victory, saving 10 shots and allowing 0
goals. The ﬁnal period was split between
Jason Lumpkin and Ned Lundvall.‘

The Generals faced the Diplomats on
Franklin and Marshall Saturday in what
turned out to be a thrilling game. The Gen-
erals started the game strong, opening up a
2-0 lead by ﬁrst quarter goals by Will Kei-
gler and Kevin Feeney. F&M responded
strongly, scored 4 of the ﬁve goals in the
second and third quarters, giving them a
4-3 lead going into the ﬁnal period. The

fourth quarter was hotly contested and‘

exciting, featuring four ties and one lead
change. Neither team led by more than
one goal. For the ﬁrst part of the quar-

ter, the two teams traded goals, leaving the
score at 6-5 with 7:30 to play. W&L then
had a big stretch, outscoring the Diplomats
2-0 in the next four minutes, leaving The
Generals with a one goal advantage with
3:16 remaining in the fourth. Diplomats’
attackman Mark Hild responded with a
goal with 2:31 to play, sending the game
to overtime. At the end of the ﬁrst over-_ _
time, Hild scored again leaving the Gener-
als with a tough 8-7 loss.

The Generals were led by some strong
individual performances in the loss. Ned
Rider and Will Englehart both recorded
two goals. Tim Skeen and Will Keigler
each had one goal and one assist, while_
Harry St. John added two assists. Con-
nor Locke played the duration in goal for
W&L, stopping nine shots.

W&L returns to action on Wednesday
when they take on the College of Wooster
at 7:00 p.m. at St. Anne’s-Belﬁeld in Char-
lottesville, Va.

O

 

