   

   

It’s been quitethe excmngvnntsrhutaae‘ events ofthelasi 

month's may not fit in with aluainl aria §te;artng1mm the ‘fofﬁcIai" sources

this weekend. wanttoxnow:w:;a£fs,rea,rryg¢lngon?f Gheck Inside.’ V  _ .
’ * ' s ‘ t E OPINIONS / Pageja»

      
 

at

WASHINGTO  LEE UNIVERSITY
HE RI -T UM PHI.
THUR5°AYaMAV1v2°°3 BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 V°'-UMECXLNUMPER13
O

etWl7“’
7-jm . to

' URESY O
PHOTO C0

ta

Work vs. play

Groups spend spring break serving

and learning around the world

By Alllson chopln
N EWS EDITOR

In addition to the chance to relax in the sun and visit friends and family, this
past spring break also provided several unique opportunities for W&L students
to live and work with communities in need.

Members of Project Nicaragua, a student-run organization that aims to ed-
ucate American students about Nicaragua and create a bond between the two
cultures, traveled to the small community of Amparo, outside of Siuna in Nica-
ragua.

The trip was made possible by Bridges to Community, a national non-proﬁt
organization.

Junior Mallory Ruymann, who led the trip, explained that the students worked
alongside members of the community, completing activities such as cooking,
clearing ﬁelds and building latrines.

“Typically, we live with a family for a week in a remote location, usually on
the Atlantic coast, the poorest area of Nicaragua. We work with the family and
their community engaging in building projects, farming and learning about sus-
tainable development,” she said.

In living and working with the Nicaraguans, a primary goal of the trip was
to develop a cultural perspective. “The main idea is to meet the Nicaraguans and
understand what their lives are like,” said senior Keri Klein.

Ruymann also emphasized these “cross-cultural exchange activities.”

“Basically, it was a complete cultural immersion from which we were able to
learn things about Nicaragua not found in textbooks,” she said.

The students also spent time interacting with students from URRACAN, a
local university, so that they could “leam from people our own age about Nica-
ragua’s various economic and social problems,” explained Ruymann.

Members of the group plan—to4;se—their new cultural knowledge in order to
educate their fellow students. Ruymann said she would like to see more partici-
pation in the trip in future years. A slide show of the trip will be presented later
in the term.

“Project Nicaragua attempts to educate the campus in some way about the
importance of global citizenship,” Ruymann said.

Another group of students, representing Generals’ Christian Fellowship
(GCF), an inter-denominational Christian organization on campus, also partici-
pated in a service trip. They traveled to Bequia, a small Caribbean island that is
part of St. Vincent and the Grenadines.

Members of the group helped to build an apartment for a church so that the
church will be able to hire a pastor. The students were able to complete the walls
of the apartment during their trip. ‘

“It was really exciting because Bequia is still very old-fashioned in their
building methods. The only tools we had were trowels, shovels, and buckets.
[There was] no concrete mixer,” freshman Sarah Warsco said. ,

Like the members of Project Nicaragua, GCF members also had the opportu-
nity to learn about the unique culture of the community they visited.

“We were able to watch the ﬁshermen coming in with boats ﬁlled with ﬁsh
and even sharks,” said Warsco. “We were able to watch the whaling ship go out
everyday, and we even saw a game of cricket on TV.”

For Warsco, the cultural interaction was just as fulﬁlling as the physical labor
that the group completed.

“It was amazing to spend so much time with the locals and to learn about their
culture,” she summarized.

New restaurant on its way to Lex

New restaurant plans to open this summer in historic Wilson— Walker house

By Jordan Mcconnel
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity students and Lexington resi-
dents will soon have a new place
to dine from early in the mom-
ing to late into the night. Better
yet, the new restaurant, which is
planned to offer a contemporary
feel and menu, will also reflect
the historic roots and culture‘ of
Lexington.

At least that’s the hope of
Roanoke restaurateur Richard
Macher, who plans to open a
Macado’s restaurant in the for-
mer Wilson-Walker House, 30
N. Main St., late this summer.

The space has been empty
since Wilson-Walker house
closed its doors more than two
years ago.

Macher says that this restau-
rant, like the other 14 Macado’s
he owns and operates, will offer
a modern ﬂair while also draw-
ing on local culture. He calls this

unique feel “funky metro.”

“We’re going for a little bit
more of a modern look,” Macher
said. “We want people to feel the
energy of it.” Chris Lumpkin, the
decorator of the new Macado’s,
said they are going for the “old
feel with the new thing.”

Macher plans to maintain the
integrity of the Wilson-Walker
House, which was built in 1820
and is included in the Historic
American Buildings Survey.

Macher said he has been ap-
proved by the Virginia Depart-
ment of Historic Resources,
which grants federal and state
tax credits for rehabilitated his-
torical buildings.

“We’ve hired a historical ar-
chitect,” he said. Macher said
he also plans to “eBay anything
‘Lexingtonish”’ to enhance the
local ﬂavor of the restaurant.

So far, Macher has already
torn down a wall on the main
ﬂoor that was added in the
1980s. He said the wall broke up

the space of the ﬁrst ﬂoor.

“One of the challenges was
the rooms were too small,” Ma-
cher said. “I want it to be fun, not
cubbyholeish.”

In the space where the wall
was removed, Macher plans
to put an L-shaped bar with a

sandwiches, Macado’s will also
serve appetizers, soups, salads,
entrees and desserts.

“We cater to everybody,” Ma-
cher said. “We have kids’ night,
quick lunch and localized deliv-
ery.”

In addition to its assorted

“We ’re going for a little bit more of a
modern look. We want people to feel the

energy of it. ”

Rlchard Macher, Owner of Macado’s

back-lit glass display case. On
the main ﬂoor, there will also be
a retail area, and both high- and
low-topped tables. Seating will
also be available upstairs and on
the two front porches.

Macado’s will offer a varied
menu that will suit all types of
people. Although famous for its

menu, Macado’s hours are
unique. It will open at 8 a.m. all
days of the week and close at 12
am. Sunday through Thursday
and 2 a.m. on Friday and Satur-
day, providing the perfect place
for both early-risers and students
with late night munchies.
Despite these competitive

hours and varied menu, local
business owners and managers
don’t seem to be concerned about
the opening of a new restaurant.
Mike Gregg, who owns and op-
erates the Blue Sky Bakery with
his wife Brenda, doesn’t think
the opening of Macado’s will af-
fect his business.

“People come here because
of the speed,” Gregg said. “Peo-
ple that go somewhere like that
expect table service.”

Kelly Pate, a manager at the
Palms, said their business may
be affected initially, but in the
long run, the Palms will be ﬁne.

“With any new business, in
the beginning, everyone’s going
to go, but we’ve been here since
’75,” Pate said.

Macher, who lives in Roa-
noke, is planning on coming up
every couple of weeks to check
on the restaurant. He also plans
to have a general manager from
another Macado’s come and look
over the new restaurant.

 

  

2

 

0 THE RING-TUM PHI

UNNERSITY LIBRARY
WASHIMETON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXlNGTON, VA 24450

new

 

THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2008

Fellowships roll in

Although Washington and
Lee is notorious for its thriv-
ing Greek scene and party
atmosphere, recent student
achievements prove that W&L
students also know how to
work as hard as they play.

Need proof? Look no far-
ther than the list of fellowships
that students are piling up. This
year, a Watson fellowship was
awarded to Mary Childs, a se-
nior business journalism ma-
jor, for her project titled “The
Eye of the Beholder: The Car-
tography of Faces,” a study of
the inﬂuence of environment
on human facial structure.

The Watson Fellowship is
a very competitive research
grant of $25,000 that is given
annually to 50 students from
private liberal arts schools
nationwide. As a Watson fel-
low, Childs will travel abroad
to work in France, the United
Arab Emirates, Japan, China,
Brazil and Morocco.

W&L has now won four
fellowships in the last three

years. Ben Long is currently
abroad studying cattle_ fann-
ing on the Watson Fellow-
ship. Wheeler Sparks studied
music around the world after
his graduation in 2006. He
travelled to several different
countries to study different
music styles and write his own
songs. That same year, Adam
Jarzyk traveled throughout
southeast Asia studying the
region’s cuisine.

According to the Watson
fellowship website, the pro-
gram is designed to “to offer
college graduates of unusual
promise a year of indepen-
dent, purposeful exploration
and travel outside of the Unit-
ed States in order to enhance
their capacity for resourceful-
ness, imagination, openness,
and leadership and to foster
their humane and effective
participation in the world
community.”

Childs won’t be the only
graduate heading abroad. Se-
nior Emma Axt won a Ful-
bright Scholarship to teach
English in France.

Recently, senior Drew Mc-
Way was also awarded a grant
from 100 Projects for Peace,
an organization that, accord-
ing to the W&L website, “in-
vites undergraduate students
to submit [project propos-
als that enhance] the idea of
world peace.” '

Mcway, an accounting and
business administration major
from the class of 2008, plans
to travel to Northern Peru,
where he will work with a
small microﬁnance group
called Sinergia, an organiza-
tion that “loans money to fe-
males who dream of owning
their own business” and has
“successfully issued loans to
over 100 women in the pov-
erty-stricken Wachanzao bar-
rio in northern Peru.”

Although many national
academic awards are given
to undergraduate juniors and
seniors, the hard work of un-
derclassmen does not go un-
noticed. This year, for his ac-
complishments in the study of
physics, sophomore Joseph
McDonald was awarded the

Students take home Watson, Goldwater and more

By Robert Wason
smrr wmrsn

prestigious Goldwater Schol-
arship, an honor given to only
321 students nationwide.

Goldwater Scholarships
are awarded to students who
excel in mathematics, engi-
neering and natural sciences.
They were created to encour-
age American students to
study these subjects.

Not to be outdone, a pair
of freshmen also got into the
act by being named Kemper
Scholars. W&L has had one
Kemper Scholar each of the
last three years, but this year
the committee chose both
Eric Hamscher and Cheng-
peng Mou. Kemper Scholars
receive ﬁnancial aid for the
rest of their college career and
participate in two internships.
The foundation awards schol-
arships to students at liberal
arts institutions nationwide.

More information about
recent academic awards, as
well as instructions on how
to apply for scholarships and
grants, can be found online at
the W&L website.

 

‘weﬂcame

stop bid the
ca veer services Tabte
0|/L Cavwtavt qrcevt
from 11230-2
om. satwolag!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

  

Oil Exchange & Lube

754 North Lee Hwy.
Across from Tractor Supply
540-463-5020

Save $1.00 —— Show W&L ID

PROPERTIES FOR RENT

Lexington Company

REALTORS

Residential Properties

Vacation Rentals ~ week and weekend rates
Commercial

Located in The Historic Dutch Inn
114 West Washington Street

Suite 101
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Amy M. Gianniny
Broker/Owner

540.464.3922

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2008

 

pinions

‘CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

-——-——-——-— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNNERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

JACOB GEIGER
ALLISON CHOPIN
GRACE WANG
STACEY GRIJALVA
MICHAEL KEENAN
WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITORS

OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

KEVIN CORN

ABEL DELGADO
MICHAEL MORELLA
JESS STEINMETZ
ROBERT WASON
RUSS WEEMS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LARA JORDAN
LENORA NUNNLEY
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students. faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

tatfeditorial

 

Who is Barack Obama?

Please use your ace orator skills to answer questions

By Abel Delgado
c 0 Lu M N l sr

Dear Senator and Future Crowned Presi-
dent Obama,

I like your words. As a college student and
young ﬁrst-time voter, I have learned that I am
required to vote for_you according to the laws
established by polls, punditry, and physics. I

«certainly cannot protest.

After all, I like the idea of being “an agent
of change,” and the word change appears just
about everywhere you go. I’m beginning to
think the word should be part of your oﬂicial
name. Barack “Change” Obama has a nice
ring to it, doesn’t it? -

I’m surprised we haven’t skipped this
whole messy primary and general election
process and just made you president already
because everyone I know is pro—change. And
what type of change-agent will I be if I don’t
blindly follow the hordes of people ﬂocking to
your campaign and voting for you? Not a very
good one, I presume.

But before I give you my vote, I’d like to
humbly ask you a few questions.

We all know you were born to be presi-
dent. As even the Republican Senator Mitch
McConnell is willing to admit, your current
opponent is a New York Senator born in 11-
linois and you are an Illinois Senator born in
a manger. So my question is, what took you
so long? Shouldn’t you have come to promi-
nence in your early 30s?

You say your time living abroad during
childhood gives you the experience needed to
make sound foreign policy decisions. I will be
studying abroad this year. By your reasoning,
do you think if I win a seat in the House of
Representatives at 25, I can chair the Foreign
Relations Committee based on the deep expe-
riences I gained while abroad?

You have been called a post-partisan re-
former but I have been unable to ﬁnd much, if
any, reform bills you sponsored or supported
either in the Illinois Senate or the U.S. Senate.

I’m sure you wouldn’t dare promote yourself
as a reformer without actually reforming any-
thing. I’m guessing there is a vast right wing
conspiracy led by Hillary Clinton to erase all
records of you taking down the special in-
terests and promoting government reform,
right?

As for the post-partisan title, you surely
cannot mean moving beyond the Democratic
Party as well as the Republican Party. Your
voting record, however brief, shows you to be
entirely loyal to the Democratic Party platform.
Not only do you not waste your time making
compromises, but you even vote against Re-

We all know you intend to be
a welcome change from the
mistakes and divisiveness

of the past two presidential
administrations... What is not
explained, however, is what
exactly you intend to change

our Country to.

publicans, as you have with measures promot-
ed by the bi-partisan “Gang of l4.”

Your voting record this past year ranks to
the left of every other senator, so I’m guessing
by post-partisan, you just mean you want to do
away with the two party system and move to
a post-partisan one party system where every-
one agrees with you. Clearly, Republican par-
tisanship or bi-partisanship efforts from either
party do not suit you, so why not do away with
it? Now that would be change!

You have said you’re willing to meet other

foreign leaders, even those who are homi-
cidal dictators. Very brave of you! You say by
speaking to them we can solve the problems
that isolating them cannot solve.

Obviously this must be due to your stellar
speaking skills. Do you think you could have
used those speaking skills to convince Stalin
not to kill millions of people? If so, I’ll get
working on my Obama time machine right
away.

I truly believe you offer a level of hope to
this country that cannot be found elsewhere.
Telling our generals and soldiers we’re in a
war that we already lost and telling consumers
and investors that we are in a deep recession
is exactly the positive message that will move
our country forward.

Hearing you speak is almost a religious
experience, but, as you so artfully stated, re-
ligion is what bitter people cling to. Should I
completely stop ﬁnding hope in religion and
just cling to your campaign instead? I don’t
want to end up bitter.

Last, I have a few questions regarding
your concept of change. Change from what
is pretty obvious. We all know you intend to
be a welcome change from the mistakes and
divisiveness of the past two presidential ad-
ministrations. Considering the unpopularity
of the current Bush administration, running as
change from it would do much to explain your
poll numbers.

What is not explained, however, is what
exactly you intend to change our country to.
Your voting record is rather anemic, consider-
ing your brevity of stay in Congress and your
long absences to hit the campaign trail. You
speak in beautiful generalities and when you
are pushed for speciﬁcs you offer the same ri-
diculous, statist plans that the left has offered
for decades. Surely you don’t mean this is
change, and surely you are too smart to believe
these plans will actually work. If I’m confused
about what change you offer, I guess I’m con-
fused about you. I guess my ﬁnal question is,
who are you?

Neighborly support

Hanging out with homeless people over Spring Break

     

Did you hear?

What the newsletters didn ’t mention

Alumni, welcome back to campus! President Ruscio, the faculty and the alumni office will
tell everyone how smoothly life is going on campus.

In all likelihood, the administration won’t mention the exciting winter term we just en-
joyed. ‘

One fraternity was suspended for hazing pledges, and another put a high school senior in
the hospital after a special tequila party for honors scholar candidates. A Trident colunm led
to special Media Board and EC hearings. A female student sent out a list of sorority members
who were supposedly “DTF” (ask a student if you want to know what that stands for).

Yes, this winter was not exactly W&L’s ﬁnest hour. But these incidents did more than
prove that college students are occasionally guilty of bad judgment. They illustrated some
deeper problems on this campus.

The last few years have hardly been banner times for the fraternity system. Two houses
have been suspended from campus for hazing. Kappa Sig was sent packing by its national
organization, while the W&L Student Affairs Committee gave SAE the boot.

Beyond these suspensions, several more houses have faced hazing investigations from
either the school or national organizations in the last two years.

Tear night was such a mess that the Interfratemity Council and Panhellenic Council, in
cooperation with the student affairs staff, decided to form a Greek Vision council to look at
the problems in our Greek system.

Those problems extend beyond hazing to high rates of sexual assault, high use of Plan
B emergency contraceptive after major party weekends along with violent and belligerent
behavior towards Traveller drivers.

The “bracket” column in the Trident has also raised a host of problems. Everyone agrees
that the colunm was crude, offensive and inappropriate. But the aftermath has been equally
disturbing.

Before this incident, few people realized that the Executive Committee has the power to
discipline student press organizations by removing funding, oﬂice space or even the right to
use the words “Washington and Lee” on the masthead.

Essentially, the government is allowed to punish the organizations charged with covering
it. The First Amendment is an idea that faculty and the student government love to talk about
in the classroom, but it’s not an idea they endorse in practice. Some professors were furious
that the writers and editor weren’t forced to resign or severely punished by the school.

And, last but not least, the list. Leaving aside the fact that a student actually thought it was
a good idea to send out a list of sorority sisters who she thought would be willing to perform
certain sexual acts, the oﬁicial response was equally ham-handed.

The school went after students who received and forwarded the e-mail, accusing them of
participating in sexual harassment.

That’s simply ridiculous. The person guilty of harassment is the list’s author. Yes, it would
have been nice if students didn’t forward the e-mail, but threatening suspensions for students
who saw the e-mail is way out of line.

Yep, things are just great here at W&L these days, at least on the days when students,
faculty and administrators manage not to act crazy.

Enjoy your visit, and just nod along when someone tells you everything is going great.

By Jess Steinmetz
COLU M msr

Everyone has encountered the
homeless. Whether it was hand-
ing out food in a soup kitchen or
walking down the street in a city,
we have all seen the faces of the
homeless.

My guess is that few Wash-
ington and Lee students have
truly known the homeless. In
other words, few have had genu-
ine relationships with the home-
less. Knowing someone who is
homeless completely changes
one’s outlook on our society and
how we confront the problem of
homelessness.

Ten other W&L students and
I spent the week at Urban Min-
istry Center, which serves people
facing homelessness and poverty
for the Alternative Spring Break.
UMC’s mission is to address peo-
ple’s needs with love, compas-
sion and tangible help. The ﬁrst
day we arrived, we were told how
much UMC values relationships.
The staff believes that relation-
ship building is key to moving in-
dividuals out of homelessness.

This really was reﬂected in the
activities the staff organized for

 

V:

21% ENE. Emir: iﬁtreei
I 3.51% 
' 5a‘i3~’i3¥§"8§3
$5.3} «étfzii-~?‘i 
W: %axin§%‘ce;:a=:3;>;s:3§,;r::
ti‘:  if 

 
  
    
 

.9“
W.

.3 ».:“2.at ~ :2»:

 

us over the week. We did a few
things to help the center—serving
drinks, sorting the mail, helping
in the kitchen, etc— but.most of
the time, we just hung out and got
to know the neighbors, the people
whom the UMC serves.

We ate lunch, watched a movie,
went on a walk, painted, just sat
around talking and my personal
favorite -- played soccer with the
neighbors. They were fabulous.
The neighbors welcomed us with
open arms and we quickly made
unforgettable friends that we are
still in contact with today.

I was shocked at the pure joy
and cheerfulness that many of
them possessed in their everyday
demeanor. In spite of their current
situation, Patrick and Eddie, for
example, always had on smiles
that would light up anyone’s day.

We discovered how much pure
talent there was at the center. The
choir was absolutely amazing, the
art program featured artists whose
work could easily sell at any fan-
cy art gallery and the soccer team
had many talented players.

While the programs at UMC
may seem to be unusual for a cen-
ter dedicated to helping the home-

less, the innovative programs are
truly effective in engaging the
neighbors, rekindling motivation,
providing them with a productive
outlet and developing life skills
needed to help them transition to
the next step in life.

To date, sales from the art
shows have grossed almost
$50,000. Part of this money goes
to the artists themselves and part
goes back into the art program.
For the past three years, the Street
Soccer 945 team has represented
the U.S. at the Homeless World
Cup. Seventy-ﬁve percent of
team members have moved off
the streets, a clear indication of
success.

As I am sure my ﬁ'iends who
went on the trip will also attest,
our experiences in Charlotte were
amazing. I can only hope that
more W&L students will be able to
visit the UMC and similar places
in the future so they too can build
relationships with the homeless. I
only wish our policymakers could
have the same experience we had.
If they did, homelessness would
certainly become a priority for
our nation.

Timber Ridge Auto Center
rm} Vallejy iliike
l.-exirigton, VA .2-4430
{$49} 464-1997'

   
 

Asa ea Flﬁii) recs-1:»: was
F'o:r:'-sigra and Do'mcstic Repatirs
fltil cltarzge and Ltifirti, AM, 'CO3ﬁ.'§}ltl€I’ Diagrtostics,
i‘«*Ei.rlorzr1f:d Major IE.rrgi.ne llicpair, Brakes,
l3ae'E lrrjectiriit Service, Transmi.ssinn. Service,
C<::rol21.u:l; Flr:.sh_, i\;l.i,rrr:or and M 21301" Tune -£}}}S.

Wt: cart pr*ot<'it§e factory aritlrorizerl main.l:ena.rr(:.e
widierrt mit.ii1'rg your rrrz-r:rrat’actn res warranty.

    
 

 

M for {T‘rra<:li't €Ta.:*.:i:: A‘ rfceptecf

 

  

4

 

° THE RING-TUM PHI

THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2008

arts&life

 

 

By Mlchael Morella
STAFF WRITER

While many students stocked
up on sunscreen and packed car-
ry—on luggage to celebrate spring
beark at the beach, sophomore
Kimber Wiggs had a different
destination in mind: Turkey.

This year, Wiggs joined 26
other Washington and Lee upper-
classmen as part of the University
Chamber Singers’ biennial spring
concert tour.

“It was really cool because
we got to meet Turkish college
students and hang out with them a
little bit,” said Wiggs. The group
performed all across the country
— which straddles the border be-
tween Eastern Europe and Asia
— including a major television
performance and stints at two
major university concert halls.

Since 1974, the Chamber Sing-
ers has traveled across the globe

. to perform under the direction of

its conductor, Professor Gordon
Spice of the Music Department.
After 18 concert tours outside the
United States, this trip marked
the last for Spice, who will step
down as conductor for the group
at the end of the academic year.

This spring’s trip began in An-
kara, Turkey’s capital, where the
group appeared on what Wiggs
called “the Turkish equivalent of
‘Good Morning America. ’”

After a successful television
performance, the Chamber Sing-
ers participated in a music work-
shop with students from Gazi
University, exchanging sheet
music and breaking the language
barrier through song.

In addition to traditional jazz
and spiritual American songs, the
Chamber Singers’ repertoire also
included pieces from the Czech
Republic, Latvia, and Zambia,
among others.

“We knew this one Turkish

song,” Wiggs said of a piece en-
titled “Suda Balik Oynuyor,” that
was very well received by all the
individuals the group sang for.
The group even received requests
for an encore of the song after an
impromptu performance at a res-
taurant.

“I don’t think, when we were
learning it, werealized how big a
success it would be,” Wiggs said.
“To have a foreign group learn
a song in their language really
meant a lot to them.”

Spice shared the student’s sen-
timent and appreciated the warm
reception that Turkey gave this
group of W&L performers.

“It just felt really good to be
an American in Turkey,” Spice
added. He admired the country’s
outstanding music venues, large
enthusiastic audiences, not to
mention the particular “delights
of Turkish cuisine.”

The Chamber Singers is an en-

semble of W&L upperclassmen
that must audition for the group ’s
select spots and frequently partic-
ipate in University Chorus during
their freshman year.

Spice described the group as
one that performs a different kind
of repertoire, often blending chal-
lenging pieces from a variety of
eras.

The group spent the week
touring several major cities in
Turkey, ultimately winding up in
Istanbul for a performance at the
city’s Caddebostan Cultural Cen-
ter, a professional music hall that
seats 775.

“The city has so much to offer
in terms of history and culture,”
senior Nikki Conkling said of Is-
tanbul. Turkey’s ‘culturally rich
city has earned it recognition
from the European Union as the
European Capital of Culture for
2010. i

This trip marked Conkling’s

 
  
 

second trip abroad with the
Chamber Singers. During her
sophomore year, she traveled
with the group to South America,
performing at various locales in
Uruguay and Argentina. Conk-
ling, who graduates this June, has
fond memories from her intema-
tional experiences at W&L.

“[The school] has given me
the opportunity to go places I
wouldn’t really think of visiting,”
she said.

In addition to the concert
tours, Conkling also spent the
Spring Term of her junior year
studying and producing art for six
weeks in Italy.

Conkling said that one of the
most rewarding things about her
experience this year in Turkey
was the cultural exchange that
took place between her fellow
Americans and the many citizens
and students of T urkey.

She even came away with

Chamber Singers light up
the stage with concerts and
T V appearance in Turkey
Not content wlth slm ly slnglng In concert halls, the cholr

earned rave revlews or Its appearance on Turkey’s verslon
of “Good Mornlng AmerIca.”

PHOTO COURTESY OF C.J. JOSEPH—GUEVARA

a few new Turkish Facebook
ﬂ'iends.

Spice’s last tour with the
Chamber Singers ended with a
moonlit performance on the roof-
top of a restaurant overlooking
the Bosporus, the strait that forms
the boundary between Turkey’s
Asian and European regions.

“It was just a great closing
moment to this particular tour,
and for me, for a part of my life,”
Spice said.

Spice said that while the
Chamber Singers will look ahead
to other trips in the future, he will
look back on his years as conduc-
tor with an appreciation for be-
ing able to lead a group of young
people as representatives of the
university, as well as the entire
United States.

Despite the bittersweet tone of
this particular tour, Spice was all
smiles.

Fun with  

pharoahs

On-ship entertainment
gets new meaning as
hand sails up the Nile

Though the W&L Wind Ensemble dld spend some
tlme actually playlng their Instruments, group
members also took time to vlslt the pyramlds.

PHOTO COURTESTY OF ERIKA ROST

By Celeste Cruz-Carandang
STAFF WRITER

The members of the Washington and
Lee University Wind Ensemble spent their
spring break in Egypt, earning the title of
Musical Ambassadors. Indeed, spending
time in the surreal setting allowed these
students to see the world from a differ-
ent perspective. A musician who toured
in Egypt, Hannah Muther said, “I really
appreciated the opportunity to visit a less
popular American tourist country and to
share the talents of the W&L Wind En-
semble with people from a very different
cultural background.”

They observed how music unites peo-
ple. Each culture has a unique way to ap-
preciate all forms of art. The similarities
assured the Wind Ensemble that their tal-
ent did not go wasted. Muther observed,
“Playing our last concert at a park in Cairo
showed the group how music can bring
people together, as cliche’ as that may
sound. Everyone seemed joyful to hear us,
especially the children, and even though
we couldn’t communicate very well, many
of the audience members came up to us af-
terwards and said thanks and even tried to
practice their English.”

Yet music was not the only thing on
their minds. Obviously, their eyes could
not help but wander off the music and

onto the spectacular sights. While visiting
the Nile and the ancient pyramids, these
musicians discovered a gem quite hidden
to members of the Western culture and the
privileged microcosm of our school.

Clark Simcoe, a freshman who went
on the trip, commented, “To ﬁnally see the
sights of Egypt in person and not through
a television screen or textbook gave me a
unique feeling of awe and amazement.”

Fowler Martens, another freshman
member of the Ensemble, echoes Sim-
coe’s sentiments: “It’s one of those things
that, no matter how many times you see
the temples and pyramids in pictures, they
still take your breath away when you see
them!” Thus, it seems that Wind Ensemble
did not only enrich the culture, but learned
from it as well.

In between concerts, the students were
able to tour these marvelous attractions.
“My favorite part of the trip was our three
day cruise down the Nile. And my most
memorable experience was getting lost
in an Egyptian bazaar”, shares Simcoe.
Closer to land, the Wind Ensemble toured
several of the remnants of ancient culture.
Muther admitted, “Seeing the ancient won-
ders like the pyramids and the Valley of
the Kings and riding a camel were all un-
forgettable experiences, and I was amazed
by the [number] of  temples remaining

from over two—thousand years ago.”

Martens also commented on the sur-
prisingly well-preserved sights: “It’s so
overwhelming to realize how sophisticated
the architecture must be to have survived
this long.”

By traveling to such an exotic loca-
tion, the members of the University Wind
Ensemble began to lend thought to study-
ing abroad. Some felt that they could
learn more outside of the Western culture.
Muther revealed her own opinions regard-
ing the international learning programs in
saying, “Visiting Egypt opened my eyes to
the merits of studying abroad in countries
outside of Europe, although I was sur-
prised by how accessible the country was
for tourists.”

While the students were denied the
pleasures of Destin, the luxury of Europe
or even the familiarity of home, they were
rewarded with a once in a lifetime oppor-
tunity.

They saw this tour as a gift and as a
chance to explore a world only known in
movies and books.

Simcoe said it best: “The only down-
side of the trip was the amount of ﬂying,
but even with that, I can say without res-
ervation I am glad I went. I could not have
wished for anything more out of the my
ﬁrst spring break at W&L.”

Let's Make Up

Leacingtows very own
. cosmetic ano skincare iiontiqne

featuring:

Bare Minerals
The Balm Sugar Cosmetics
Dr. Hauschka
MD Formulations Dr. N. V. Perricone

3 West Nelson Street
Lexington
540 464 3900
Open: Monbay - Satnrbay

Q
geeéq e Peetruozcznt
PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN Tor CAFE

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN IZA TBuf]‘ets.'

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm _
Sunday Baked Chicxen, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast ‘Mam-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm-2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week Sam-11am
Daily Hot Country Bar Ham-1 Opm
Daiiy Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 11am-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 lrlours a day, 7 days a week!

Home Cooked M'eaIs & Southern H0spitality.~’
l..oc-ated at

Elllmmfﬂﬂ

L81 & M34, Exit 195, 2516 North Lee I-lwy., .l,exiugtoii. VA
540-463-3478

Great food 3: a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars Jr Tin Toys!

 

 

U

 

 

 

THURSD’AY, MAY 1,2008

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

sports  

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Record days

Team breaks 8 team and meet
marks at ODAC championship

By Kevln Corn
smrr wrmen

Washington and Lee’s track and
ﬁeld teams kept quite busy over Spring
Break with ODACs on the last weekend
of the break. The men’s team ﬁnished
3"‘ of six teams, while the women cap-
tured 2”“ out of six teams. The Gener-
als set ﬁve school records, three cham-
pionship meet records, and had four
ODAC champions. The teams captured
twelve All-ODAC citations with junior
Stacy Doornbos being awarded Track
and Field Athlete of the Year, junior
Elizabeth Webb being named Scholar-
Athlete of the Year, and Head Coach
Nate Hoey being named Coach of the
Year for the Women’s team.

The women were led to their great
ﬁnish with help from Doombos who
won the high jump with a leap of 5’3”,
ﬁnishing second in both the long jump
with a distance of 17’1l.75” and sec-
ond in the 100 meters hurdles with a
time of 15.75, and taking third in the
400 meters race with a time of 59.30.

“1 was really happy with how the
ODAC meet went,” commented Door-
nbos. “I was chosen as Athlete of the
Meet for the ODAC which was a huge
honor and was very exciting.”

Junior Becca Taylor set a school
record in the steeple chase after cross-
ing the ﬁnish line in a time of 11:59,
good for second, and then proceeded
to take third in the l500meters with
a time of 4:53.49. Junior Grace An-
drews placed in three events including
third in shot put with a throw of 10.79
and a ﬁfth place ﬁnish in the hammer
throw where her toss of 33.02 set a new
school record.

Sophomores Kat Telfeyan and Dor-

othy Todd all had strong ﬁnishes in the

top ﬁve of their events, while junior
Alysen Kuck took third in the javelin
after a throw of 33.92 meters. Junior
Stephanie Stelter took third in the 400
hurdles with a time of 67.17, while
sophomore Sallie Armstrong ﬁnished
fourth in the same event with a time of
68.36. Sophomore Maggie Sutherland
took second in the high jump with a
height of 1.57‘and third in 100 hurdles
with a time of 15.95.

Lastly, Webb captured the gold
in both the 1500 meters with a time
of 4:44.90 and in the 800 with a time
2:18.15. Junior Jess Shaw was ﬁrst to
cross the ﬁnish line in the 5K with a
time of 17.29, setting a school record, a

the 5K with a time of 15:33.54.

Jackson commented, “Coming in

third in the steeplechase was a great
way to cap the season.” He continued,
“Being able to make a difference in the
newest event in the conference was
huge when it came down to how the
team did as a whole.”

Sophomore Billy Billington threw
13.87 in the shot put for second place.

In the discuss throw, Billington threw a

41.33 - good enough for second, and
took third in the hammer throw with
a distance of 47.68 which also set a
school record in the event. Senior Mi-
chael Keenan ﬁnished second in the
javelin after throwing a distance of
51.87, setting a new school record.

Todd offered a comment on the
team’s overall success at ODACs, say-
ing, “Our ODAC meet was a wonder-
ful way to wrap up a great season. We
have been working toward the ODAC
meet all season.” She continued, “All
of the girls on the team stepped it up
and really rose to the occasion. We
had so many PR performances at the
ODAC meet! I think we surprised
everyone with how close we were to
Roanoke!”

Sophomore Brian Bondurant
agreed, “The team’s performance was
exactly what we had hoped for and I
was very excited for us to escape with
the 3rd place overall position as a team,
beating Roanoke by just a few points.”

Andrews commented, “I was so
proud of both the teams. It was great to
do so well overall, as a team. The best
part of the team this year was the new
additions. The new blood was refresh-
ing; they all greatly added to the team,
both athletically and personally.”

Last Saturday, Shaw, Webb, and
Berry all ran in Hillsdale, Michigan.
Berry ran the 5000 meters in a ‘time
of 15.42, while Webb ran a personal
best time of 17:48.41 in the 5000 me-
ters, which placed her 20"‘ overall in
the event. Shaw ran the same event
and crossed the ﬁnish line with a new
school record and National Qualify-
ing time of 17:15.57. This time makes
Shaw the sixth fastest in the nation for
DIII.

“It was an insane experience,” re-
ported Shaw. “I have never competed
in a more exciting race. Running un-
der the lights was exhilarating, and
my adrenaline was full force the entire
time.”

Webb added, “I’m pleased with my

Junior Stacy Doornbos takes off in the high jump during the ODAC Outdoor Track and Field Champion- championship record, and hertime Was race as well. I went out way too fast,

ships, held April 18-19. Doornbos won the high jump, placed second in the long Jump and the 100m a NCAA qualifying cut. hut Shh held on for a 7 Second PR.

hurdles, third and the 400m dash, and sixth In the triple jump and was named ODAC Women's Track & On the men’s side, junior Alex Jack- Racing against Such an ehre group of

Field Athlete of The Year- son took third in the 3000 meter steeple runners was an incredible experience
chase with a time of 10:22.08, while and 1 hope that 1 will have the 0r,n0rtu_
junior Vance Berry captured second in rnry to do it again soon)’

Golf shoots for NCAAs

James captures individual title; team wins ODAC championship
for ﬁrst time since 1999 andﬁrst trip to NCAAS since 1991

By Michael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee University
men’s golf team claimed its ﬁrst ODAC
Championship of the twenty-ﬁrst cen-
tury and its eleventh all-time at the league
championship held April 19-21 at the Pop-
lar Grove Golf Club in Amherst, Va. The
Generals jumped out to a lead on day one
and never looked back en route to the title
and automatic birth to the NCAA touma-
ment. Senior Nathaniel James led the way
for the Generals, ﬁnishing as the individual
medalist.

Coming into the tournament, the Gen-
erals were seeded second with an average
of 302.4, 2.6 shots behind tvvelfth-ranked
Guildford, and 2 shots ahead of third seed
Hampden-Sydney. James’s 72.2 stroke per
average was the best in the conference,
more than two shots ahead of Bridewater’s
Colton Ray and Guilford’s Peter Latimore.

The Generals were the dominant team
from day one. On opening day, the Generals
shot a 302 to open an eight shot lead over
second place Hampden-Sydney. Guilford
sat in fourth after shooting 321 in the open-

ing round; James and teammate sophomore
Matt Langan led the way, shooting rounds
of 75, which put them in a three-way tie
for second with Hampden-Sydney’s Bob
Boykin, just three strokes back of Ran-
dolph-Macon’s Ralston King. Sophomores
Brad Watts and Joe Gibson each shot a 76
and freshman Tim Gavrich ﬁnished with a
79.

W&L continued its superb play in the
second round, ﬁring a 294 to extend its lead.
Pre-toumament favorite Guilford found its
groove, shooting a 303 to move into second
place, but still remained 28 shots behind
the Generals with only one round to play.
James again led the way with a tournament
low round of 70 to take the individual lead
by one stroke over King. Watts shot a 72
to move into third place and Langan’s 76
moved him into a tie for ﬁfth. Gibson was
just one stroke behind Langan after shoot-
ing a second round of 76.

Though day three was plagued with poor
conditions, the Generals held of a strong
charge by Guilford to win the tournament
by ten strokes. The Generals shot a round
of 313, which brought their three day total
to 909. Guildford’s 295 closed the gap by

eighteen strokes but was not enough for
the Quakers to defend their title. Hampden-
Sydney ﬁnished in third with 929 strokes.
Watt’s ﬁnal round score of 76 led the way
for the Generals and moved him into a tie
for second place overall. James shot a 77 to
ﬁnish with a toumament-best score of 222,
just six shots over par.

The Generals returned home with nu-
merous pieces of hardware in addition to
the championship trophy. In addition to
being the individual medalists, James was
named ODAC Golfer of the Year and the
ODAC/F arm Bureau Scholar-Athlete of the
Year. Watts joined James on the all-touma-
ment team by ﬁnishing in a tie for second.
Gibson received all-ODAC honorable men-
tion and Coach Gavin Colliton was named
the ODAC Coach of the Year.

The Generals will return to action at the

2008 NCAA Division III Championship
held at the Chateau Elan Resort in Brasel-
ton, Ga., on May 13-16. This is their ﬁrst
team trip to the NCAA tournament since
1991.

Moumrsxmre MAMA

A Unérzuasx Fuji Se‘rvl<:.a Caterer _

. .».8ai3e8ma:-atnns

 eeraarata Ex/fen
 Pam.

 lnnaennaennanami

    
    
      

:F|NE LINGERIE

21 W. Nelson Street
Lexington

540 463 6963
Open: Monday — Saturday

 

 

THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2008

sports

 

   

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 6

o deck

     

 

Mon

       

TuEs WED THURS Fm

 

SAT

        

Finished
Baseball 3,350,.
Men's vs.
Tennis M°°°""'
11:00 am.
NCAA
w.|.'::'°""" Tourney
NCAA
1
'.'::.".'::.: 
vs. Va.
Mon.‘ Wes.
Lacrosse 7:00 P'm'
at
Track Liberty
Twilight
4:00 p.ml

 

numbers
17:15.57

 

in a row for lax

    
    
    
   

7 MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Senior goalkeeper Sarah Tilbor makes a save during the ODAC women’s lacrosse final. The Generals de-
fense, led by Tllbor and senior Kat Michaels (18), held the Maroons to just one goal in the first half, giving
the team an 8-1 halftime lead. Tilbor finished the game with 13 saves and just four goals allowed.

Staunch defense, offensive burst propel women

   
    
   
    
  
  
  
  
     
 
   
 
  
  
   

Junior Jessica Shaw's school record and national qualifying time in the
5,000m run at the 43rd Annual Hillsdale Gina Relays. Shaw's time is

currently the sixth fastest in the country.

33

individual points scored byjunior Stacy Doornbos at the ODAC Track

ever, the Generals came back as senior at-
tacker Christine Bender found the back of
the net to leave the half time score at 8-1
in favor-.of the Generals.

The second half started as did the ﬁrst,
with a W&L score. Sophomore attacker
Britten Mathews scored at 24:31 to put the
lead at to 9-1. Roanoke came back with
their ﬁrst run of the game. They scored
the next two goals to move the score to
9-3. W&L again closed strong by scoring
4 of the ﬁnal 5 goals to secure their 10"‘
ODAC championship.

W&L had some key individual perfor-
mances in the championship win. They
were paced by Emily Mathews, who
scored four goals. Christine Bender add-
ed two goals and an assist. Junior attacker
Katie Flippen scored two goals. Kelsi
Robinson added another goal with two
assists. Senior Sarah Tilbor played the en-
tire game in goal, recording 13 saves.

W&L will ﬁnd out its ﬁrst opponent

By Russ Weems
surr wnmzn

 
 
  

The women’s lacrosse team played in
the ODAC championship this week. The
Generals came into the contest having
won the last ﬁve ODAC titles. The Gen-
erals are undefeated in the conference this
year. W&L beat its opponent Roanoke
handily earlier in the season. The Gen-
erals were also the ﬁrst seed in the tour-
nament and currently ranked sixth place
in the country. The Generals would have
to overcome the pressure of being the fa-
vorite to capture their sixth straight title.
With the win, the Generals would receive
an automatic bid to the 2008 NCAA Tour-
nament and set a new program record for
wins in a season.

The Generals started the game looking
like champions. W&L opened the ﬁrst
half with seven unanswered goals, includ-
ing three from freshman midﬁelder Emily
Mathews. This initial barrage left Roa-

and Field Championships en route to being named Athlete of the Year.

24-0

‘ The record of the Washington and Lee women’s tennis team, who

 nisthemosteverf
"r¢§f_a¥I;i-.. "fife: previous 
   

    
  

    
  
 

at e......... wiiiir,be;.1nakl-ll
n .he’§risixth,istralght‘ 

 

enter the NCAA tournament with an undefeated record after winning

    

their sixth consecutive ODAC title.

13

Consecutive victories by the Washington and Lee men’s tennis team,
currently ranked 16th in the country. The team recently claimed its _
13th consecutive ODAC title and will advance to the NCAA tourna- a’3i15§§i.}tlli¢rt0ilfltW0f
by in-intry:eFrankIin' 

 

ment.

222

Three—round total for senior Nathaniel James, who won the individual i
ODAC title and led the Generals to their ﬁrst ODAC Championship

since 1999. The team will compete in the NCAA tournament for the

ﬁrst time since 1991.

7

Unanswered goals by the Washington and Lee women's lacrosse
team to start the ODAC Championship against Roanoke. The Generals

cruised to a 13-4 to take their sixth consecutive ODAC title and will ad-

vance to the national tournament.

12

Number of players who scored for the 19th-ranked Washington and
Lee men's lacrosse team in their ﬁnal regular season game against

Guilford. The Generals will take on Virginia Wesleyan in the ODAC

semi-ﬁnals.

12

Individual points scored by sophomore Billy Billington at the ODAC
Track and Field Championships. Billington was second in the shot put

and discus and third in the hammer, in which he reset he own school

record.

noke with a giant hill to climb to get back
into striking distance. Roanoke ﬁnally
tallied with 8:06 left in the half. How-

By Kevin Corn
surr warren

Washington and Lee’s Women’s Ten-
nis Team has been quite busy the last few
weeks including the ODAC Tournament
and a very important match against Emory
University in Atlanta. However, despite
this busy and competitive schedule, the
Generals showed no fatigue. They remain
undefeated and number one in the country,
thus favored to win another NCAA title.
At Emory, the girls had a real battle with
the meet coming down to the last match
between junior Meg Splaitta and Emory’s
Sara Vrabec. Fortunately, Spalitta took the
match in two sets, 6-2, 7-6, with a 7-2 vic-
tory in the tie-breaker.

Junior Katie Tabb led the team with a
victory against Emory’s Tshema Nash in
two sets: 6-2, 7-5. She also teamed up with
sophomore Lauren Caire for an 8-4 victory
in their doubles match.

Splaitta’s victory tipped the meet in fa-
vor of W&L, 5-4.

Kelly Will, who defeated Emory’s Sa-
bra Rogers, explained what the team’s vic-
tory meant, “Beating a good team always
feels good and our wins over Williams and
Emory show that we are deﬁnitely in that
top 4 group. 5-4 is not a big margin and it
also shows how close all the top teams are.
We have a lot of close matches ahead.” She
added, “It gives us a sense of what we’ll

for the 2008 NCAA Tournament on Sun.,
May 4.

face and what we need to work on.”
Overall, Tabb commented, “The Emory
win was a big boost not only for us as a
team, but also for a lot of us as individu-
als. I think the wins gave us conﬁdence be-
cause we had to ﬁght for each of our wins,
and we ended up pulling out a lot of tough
matches.” She continued, “That kind of
win gives you a different mentality going
into your next match because it makes you
feel like anything is possible if you want it

   

 

 
 
 
  

Mai baflrraind rem‘.  

Tennis still unbeaten

Women take perfect record to NCAA championship

Tabb explained that though the win may
appear to fans as a walk in the park, acute
concentration is needed to pull off a deci-
sive win.

“ODACS, even though they aren’t.the
best competition we face all year, are still
a good way for us to’ compete and make
sure that we’re ready for the upcoming
NCAA tournament,” said Tabb. “Despite
what people may think, it actually takes a
lot of focus to win an ODAC match 6-0,

“The Emory win was a big boost not only for us as a team,
but also for a lot of us as individuals. I think the wins gave
us conﬁdence because we had to ﬁght for each of our wins,

and we ended up pulling out a lot of tough matches. ”

- Junior Katie Tabb

 

bad enough.”

The Generals more recently completed
ODACS without losing a game throughout
the entire tournament. The ladies took down
Guilford 7-0 in the quarterﬁnals without
losing a set, then Virginia Wesleyan 5-0,
again without dropping a set. In the ﬁnals,
the Generals took a 9-0 win over Bridge-
water without dropping one set. In most of
the matches, the ladies lost no more than
one or two games.

6-0, so it’s nice preparation for the focus
we’ll need to have at nationals.”

Will agreed, saying, “Playing ODACS
is a mental game because you can’t get
distracted or think you’re going to auto-
matically win. Our history of winning can
make it seem like it should be easy, but the
quality of players in ODACS increases ev-
ery year and you have to be mentally in the
match to win.”

 
  
    
    
     
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  

