  

LBRARY

LINEHSITV
WABHIMETON & LEE UNIVERSITY

l.ﬂlNGTON.VA24450

What’s doing on downton?

Lexington and Rockbridge County officials still don't know
what will eventually go into the old courthouse at the corner of

Washington and Main.

NEWS / Page 2

WASHINGTO AND LEE UNIVERSITY

  THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE_STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXI,

By Jacob Geiger
MANAGING EDITOR

In a secret hearing held by the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board
last week, Trident authors Tim
Livingston and Mychael Mul-
hem were found guilty of “con-
duct unbecoming Washington
and Lee students” and placed on
probation for the rest of their col-
lege careers.

Livingston and Mulhem, both
seniors, have been subjected to a
ﬁrestorm of criticism since an ar-
ticle they wrote in March labeled
students as “pretentious sluts”
and trapped in the closet.

“I don’t think [the verdict]
was too harsh,” Mulhem said.
“I think it was fair for what hap-

pened.”

Livingston did not return calls
seeking comment on Sunday.

After the article was pub-
lished, students and members of
the faculty demanded the resig-
nation of Livingston, Mulhem
and Christina Pratt,'the Trident’s
editor-in-chief. President Ken
Ruscio sent out a campus-wide
e-mail. attacking the publication
and demanding that the writers
apologize and resign.

The three resisted the calls for
their resignation, but Mulhem
and Livingston reversed course
last week and formally resigned
from the paper.

After the Media Board, a
group comprised of the editors of
all campus publications, includ-

“It would have made more sense for conduct

unbecoming to go before SJC, which is, in my

feeling, the way it was supposed to happen.

But there was not a lot we could do about it. ”

MYCHAEL MULHERN, former Trident columnist

ing the Phi, originally declined
to issue sanctions against the Tri-
dent, an anonymous complain-
tant recently ﬁled charges with
the SF HB.

The SFHB is a board com-
prised of eight students and eight
faculty members. Four students
and four faculty members heard

the case against Livingston and
Mulhem. The students are ap-
pointed by the Executive Com-
mittee and the faculty members
are appointed by the provost.
The board was originally
formed to hear cases of sexual
misconduct and has the power
to punish or even expel students

through conﬁdential hearings
that are not open to the public.

Livingston and Mulhem were
originally charged with “conduct
unbecoming  and of acts of
prohibited sexual harassment.”

Since the accuser wished to
remain anonymous, no evidence
was presented about what effect
publication of the article actu-
ally had. The lack of evidence
led the board to ﬁnd Livingston
and Mulhem not guilty on sexual
harrasment charge.

According to Mulhem, the
identity of his accuser is still a
secret.

“We have no idea [who it
was],” Mulhem said. “My un-
derstanding is that only two peo-
ple know: the person who made

0 Trident “bracket” writers receive probation following anonymous complaint

the complaint and the person
who ﬁled it with the school.”

The complaint was originally
sent to Dean Brandon Dotson,
the associate dean of students
and the administration’s liason to
judicial bodies like the SJC.

Professor Brian Richardson,
chair of the Journalism Depart-
ment, criticized the board for
letting the accuser remain anony-
mous. He said he understands
why complaintants in sexual
misconduct or rape cases are al-
lowed to remain anonymous but
disagrees with letting speech be
prosecuted by anonymous com-
plaintants.

“When you talk about pros-

See “SFHB decision" on page 2

“R-E-S-P—E-C-T” forum addresses campus climate

Students meet to discuss respect, gender relations, and hurtful language in aftermath of “the bracket” and “the list”

By Michael Morella
STAFF WRITER

A mixed group of faces ﬁlled
room 345 of the Elrod Commons
last Tuesday night.

There were students and
faculty, freshmen and seniors,
Greeks and independents, chem-
istry majors and English pro-
fessors, men and women, dorm
counselors and residents, varsity
athletes and a university presi-
dent — not to mention at least one
other journalist ﬁiriously scrib-
bling notes. Even Larry Stuart,
one of Washington and Lee’s
beloved public safety ofﬁcers
made an appearance — watch-
ing the doors from his post in
the event that he might be called
upon.

A diverse array of perspec-
tives and backgrounds were rep-
resented at the forum. But what
brought this varied group of stu-
dents, faculty and administrators
together was a common desire to
discuss the concept of respect at
Washington and Lee.

The discussion, entitled “R-
E—S—P—E-C-T: Do students re-
ally respect each other?” was
billed as a chance to address
recent campus publications such
as “the bracket” and “the list.”
The event was organized inde-
pendently by two seniors, Paten
Hughes and Bill Larson.

Larson, who is a member of
sexual assault prevention group
1 in 4, said that he and Hughes
had not intended to tie the event
to any particular organization or
group but rather offer the chance

for all voices to speak and be
heard about important issues.

Junior Micaela Coffey was
one such voice. Coffey, a peer
counselor who has been actively
involved with issues regarding
gender relations at W&L, felt
the discussion addressed a lot of
the concerns that her work has
brought to light.

“[It was a] healthy way for
people to get out some really
strong feelings they had in a safe
environment,” she said. She was

Keen dismissed the simple adage
about “sticks and stones” after
the discussion and reﬂected on
the power of hailing as a means
of inﬂuencing another.

“Name-calling, I think, can
be extremely profound and can
be very hurtful if you’re on the
receiving end of it,” Keen said.
“There is a huge amount of so-
cial power with calling people
names.”

Keen also spoke highly of
student initiative in taking own-

“[It was a] healthy way for people to get out

some really strong feelings they had in a safe

environment...in general, change is going

to have to come from discussion among stu-

dents. ”

MICAELA COFFEY, junlor peer counselor

impressed by the attendance and
the thoughtful consideration of
the variety of issues the audi-
ence brought to light.

“People were there because
they cared about this topic and
they wanted to talk about it,”
Coffey said. “In general, change
is going to have to come from
discussion among students.”

Much of Tuesday’s discus-
sion centered on language is-
sues, particularly with regard
to individuals being conscious
about the particular words they
say. English Professor Suzanne

ership of the issues that are vital
to the entire community’s expe-
rience at W&L. I

“Now there’s a much clearer
message about what the com-
munity thinks about labeling,”
she said. Less clear, according
to Keen, is how the community
must grapple with ﬁiture issues
that seem to pit freedom of the
press against protection of a civ-
il community.

Yet, in her over 12 years on
the Washington and Lee faculty,
Keen was pleased to announce
that with many of the abstract

“big picture things” students
have confronted over the years,
she has seen remarkable im-
provement.

President Ken Ruscio was
also in attendance and remained
silent throughout Tuesday’s dis-
cussion.

“I continue to be impressed
by the students at Washington
and Lee,” Ruscio said afterward.
“They care about this com-
munity.” He commended the
organizers and all the students
involved for helping to craft the
Washington and Lee community
as they see it.

Amidst the talk of commu-
nity and gender relations, stu-
dents also raised concerns about
personal responsibility among
themselves and in interactions
with their peers. ,

‘At one point in the conver- '
sation, the idea was raised that
talking about the higher ideals
of honor and ‘dignity at Wash-

-ington and Lee does not neces-

sarily guarantee that the com-
munity members embody them.
Students and faculty responded
with an engaging and open dis-
cussion of this proposition.

The group debated for
nearly an hour and a half and
many emerged from the room
still buzzing about what was or
wasn’t said.

Freshman Catherine Kruse
acknowledged that some of the
gender issues brought up during
the discussion are true but was

See “SFHB decision” on page 2

v

 

     

1 other. I  ‘

   

,7”{gatne:ing;‘._:;e it ~

  

   

  
 

I  lo:ganize.ther»f6ru¢r,.- e r S

p

  

wlithi  i

  

  

 

 

there to hide
 étazﬂpus  attention from NPR aﬂiliate,_

i A Aftetisuccessfuliyi keeping the “Bracket” i
  .controversyioiut of the “public” eye for several ,
 montbsfwashington and Lee administrators got i
~ iatifunwelcomeiysurpriee last Tuesday night when
if fa reporter from WVTF, an?NPR afﬁiiate based ,
_:,out_of Roanoke and __Biaoksburg,. arrived at the .l
i,’,.iEirodj§)ornmons,to sit in on the “campus ciimate

_ v‘:l"t;e discussion, organized by seniors Paten . I »

S Hughes—and Bitl,i3;arsan,iwas billed as a chance for
studentsgifaleulty‘ and administratorsto talk about I
wh‘eti:ae’r or notstud_ents"and’faeu1ty respect.ea‘::’h”

P 1 A ranaearstuaentsandiacuity, including. , j
. ‘fi3ra1ckefc’f—authors Tim Livingston and Myke Mulher
 ‘gas weiileias,PrZesiVde.nt Ken Ruscio, attended the ‘

f . _re;:iortet Dotchie Miroili neverigiotpast;
the tron’: door, turned away by.administrators’andi
jg  I L M ' &L public, safety officer.‘ S y M 
’ A A it/'lfiro‘lii did’ manage to wrangle an inteirviewiw tn
Hughes, wiaojtoid the station why she had decide to

Winie ,._«»ugI3es was wiliingto talk, ad ministrators—‘
.Werei_fea ' ‘g-father shy and ‘refused to talk I
. olii on theiirecord. Itrose unnamed * , it 
 falldministf_rators claimed that the Mirolii couidiniot‘ ‘
iiatternd theldiscussion because it was only for

membetslofgtthe war. community. 1 , 
 *‘Ft_£rtheririoree’the adiminisirators refused to “eti-
gf ” tlseﬁiiadiioiteportevr what 9- if any - punishments he
as beenitevied againstitivingjston and Mulhem. _ _
 = _ The ’twoSt_udents wereiputon probation last wee .
 Va,secret-Stu.dent-Facility Hearing Board meeting...“ I

 

MAY--1-A-84388’

NUMBER 19

 
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
     
   
  
  
 

  
  

V3315 -1"‘-it 5  ' "‘ 2-" ‘I?!
‘or .. « » ' 5 PJIXIJ
um I. v .v 4 '

2 Ir

;-..:s,;e«;».et4r‘u.»t.:~» -

 

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2008

MICHEAL KEENAN / sports editor

TOP: The historic
Rockbrldge court-
house, built in 1896,
will be empty once
the new courthouse
is completed later
‘this year. The city and
county are currently
requesting propos-
als for how the space,
should be used.
RIGHT: The new court-
house, located at the
corner of Nelson and
Randolph, was start-
ed after a judge ruled
that the old building
did not adequately
meet the county's
judicial needs.

 

SF HB decision

continued from page 1

prosecuting someone for offensive speech,
which I have problems with in the ﬁrst place,
telling them  they’re not allowed to know
who complained violates basic fairness,”
Richardson said.

Richardson also said that allowing a com-
plainant to remain anonymous seemed con-
trary to the ideas of legal due process.

In the 2007-2008 Student Handbook, “con-
duct unbecoming” is only mentioned under the
section concerning the Student Judicial Coun-
cil, a group of elected students that hear cases
involving disciplinary matters.

“There are some problems in the student
handbook. That’s one thing the entire situa-
tion has brought out,” Mulhem said. “The
way I read it, it would have made more sense
for conduct unbecoming to go before SIC,
which is, in my feeling, the way it was sup-
posed to happen. But there was not a lot we
could do about it.”

David Bruck, a law professor and chairman
of the SFHB, defended the board’s ability to
hear “conduct unbecoming” charges.

“There was a complaint of conduct unbe-
coming and a complaint of sexual harassment,”
Bruck said. “[Conduct unbecoming] wouldn’t
be in our jurisdiction if it was the only charge
brought, but if two charges are brought we can
hear them both. If a harassment charge was
brought, we could return a conduct unbecom-
ing verdict, but the reverse isn’t true.”

Richardson said he thinks conduct un-
becoming is a vague charge to bring against
students whose speech might be considered
offensive.

“When somebody who writes something
can be accused of conduct unbecoming, we’re
conﬂating speech with conduct, and that
troubles me,” Richardson said. “The fact that
somebody, anybody in the community can
anonymously decide that ‘something some-

body expressed constitutes conduct unbecom-
ing and can haul them before a body that was

originally constituted to hear sexual miscon- ”

duct and sexual harassment cases troubles me
in a lot of respects.” '

Bruck said an eight person panel com-
prised of four faculty and four student mem-
bers heard the case. An earlier case heard with
eight members had to be re-heard in front of
the full sixteen-person board after the defen-
dant appealed the decision.

The appeal occurred because a student ar-
gued that the Student Handbook did not con-
tain provisions permitting the hearing to be
held before the smaller panel instead of the
entire board.

During the new hearing, the board stuck
with its original decision, suspending the stu-
dent for spring term and placing the student on
probation for one year.

In the case against Livingston and Mul-
hem, Richardson questioned whether or not

the ruling would serve the purpose of reduc- .

ing patently offensive speech. He said that he
worries the case will instead inhibit speech be-
cause students simply won’t know what is or
is not acceptable.

He also said that the case should never have
gone to the SFHB.

“I don’t fault the SFHB itself for the de-
cision,” Richardson said. I think they had an
awful task, because in my opinion, this case
was a mess procedurally. They acted honor-
ably under terrible circumstances, as far as I’m
concerned.” I

Meanwhile, Livingston and Mulhem both
hope the furor over theirarticle is ﬁnally dy-
ing down.

“I think the whole school needs to move on
and look at issues that were brought up with
this,” Mulhern said. “This is done, and it’s
nice to ﬁnally have it done.”

Respect forum

continued from page 1

concerned that Tuesday’s conversation fo-
cused too often on ideas that had already been
recognized.

Kruse, who is involved with student group
KEWL, felt the conversation wasn’t as much
about respect as it was about language issues
and gender relations.

“We can delve deeper,” Kruse said.

Hughes was proud of the way that those
present handled the talk but reminded the
audience at the discussion’s conclusion that
this was just the first step toward real action.

Hughes, who will graduate in just under a
month, urged the underclassmen to carry for-
ward with a more concrete plan toward ac-
tion.

“When people have breached our commu-
nity’s values of honor and respect, the com-
munity needs to talk about it,” Hughes wrote
in response to the discussion. “I’m looking
forward to continued dialogue among my
peers to ﬁgure out what they want the next
[step] to be.”

By Lara Jordan
DESIGN EDITOR

As construction rolls along at the new court-
house site near Davidson Park, the city and coun-
ty are struggling to decide what will happen to the
historic old courthouse.

The new building will sit on the corner of Nel-
son and Randolph Streets, while the old build-
ing — along with lawyers row — occupies a prime
stretch of downtown real estate at the corner of
Washington and Main Streets.

The Board of Supervisors will put out a re-
quest for proposals (RFP) for the development or
sale of the old courthouse in newspapers around
the state within the next week.

The proposals must come in by May 29, 2008,
and the county will select a developer within 30
to 60 days.

The Architectural Review Board has the abil-
ity to approve or deny plans for development.

The courthouse committee, a group of com-
munity members who have brainstormed the
problems and potential uses of the courthouse,
hopes developers will maintainthe historic value
of the courthouse while serving the public with
the new design.

Last year the old courthouse was surrounded
in controversy after the city and county looked
at trying to lure the Museum of the Confederacy
to the site. '

Proponents of the museum said it would have
been an economic boon to the downtown area,
drawing in thousands of tourists and pumping $1
million annually into the local economy.

Opponents, however, argmed that the court-
house would heighten racial tensions in the area
and fail to deliver the promised economic ben-
eﬁts.

The city and county were willing to give the
museum the $2 million building, but the museum
eventually decided to remain in Richmond.

That decision left the city and county back at
square one in their search to ﬁll the building.

The courthouse, built in 1896 and currently
owned by the county, is an important part of the

Old courthouse open for business

County Seeks proposals for use ofold building, new courthouse to be completed this year

community, said Lexington Council Member
Mimi Elrod, a member of the committee.

“We hope to ﬁnd a way to save the architec-
tural features both inside and outside and ﬁnd a
way for the community use.it,” said Elrod.

Jerry Nay, another member of the committee,
said he is hopeful that developers will be able to
restore it “pretty much as it is.”

In a ﬁnal report issued August 9, the commit-

_tee said saving the old courthouse needed to help

make the area a better place to live, strengthen
the sense of community and make money for the
area.

Some ideas the committee brainstormed for
potential uses include:

- A community multi-purpose room/place.

- A place for not-for-proﬁt organizations.

- A centralized location for local schools to con-
duct off-campus programs.

- A place for local and guest artists to use for
educational/class purposes.

County Administrator Don Austin says there
has already been some expressed interest, but
nothing is ofﬁcial or formal until the proposals
are submitted.

Although Austin imagines most of the propos-
als will come from Virginia, it is not limited to
the state.

One beneﬁt for potential developers is histori-
cal tax credits.

These federally mandated credits encourage
the preservation of historic buildings by provid-
ing tax breaks to developers who improve the
property under the U.S. Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation.

Developers can be reimbursed for part of their
development expenses if they follow expressed
guidelines.

A new $30 million courthouse is being con-
structed two blocks away on Randolph Street,
scheduled to open in December.

The need for a new courthouse ﬁrst emerged
when a panel found the old courthouse to be
crowded, water damaged and falling apart. There
was also the need for adequate security, parking,
restrooms and handicap access.

Yiuzzel wit/2 us
z‘/amzrg/7 the places

Louise called ilmnze

4 _ , ntshut ticket requzre‘
Qlic beverages will be served

   

 

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

 

opinions

————-—————— WASHINGTON AND Ln: Umvsxsnr

THE RING-TUM PHI.

JACOB GEIGER
ALLISON CHOPIN
GRACE WANG
STACEY GRIJALVA
MICHAEL KEENAN
WILL DORRANCE
ANDREW RUBIN

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITORS

OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS GRACE ANDREWS
JOHN HENDERSON
BRETT HOLTON
JAMIE KIM
MICHAEL MORELLA

RUSS WEEMS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LARA JORDAN
LENORA NUNNLEY
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

lette rl
Trident precursor
worse than Bracket

Even in 1921, rebels exalted their own
intelligence, mocked embarrasing
habits, laughed at chronically drunk

 

To the editor:

In my collection of W&L memorabilia, I have an original copy of
a student newspaper called “The Rebel Yell.” My edition is volume 1
and was published in the spring of 1921. On either side of the banner
the publishers declared, “The Mighty are slow to anger and only the
Mighty have been considered here,” and “If you amount to nothing at
W&L don’t look for your name in the Rebel Yell.”

This paper is an obvious precursor to the Trident. The articles and
editorials are disrespectful of authority, i.e. the administration, and in-
sulting and scomful of many of their fellow students. The publishers
declared, “The staff of this ﬁrst effort represents genius drawn from
every element of the student body. And the members have combined
to point out, in the best of spirits, the foibles and idiosyncrasies or our
fellow students and faculty.” 

The paper mocked the faculty and compared the secrecy and results
of faculty meetings to those of the Ku Klux Klan. The Calyx was de-
scribed as “four hundred pages of drivel  with pictures of girls we
never saw dancing with campus roughnecks in evening clothes.”

Most importantly to the current uproar over the Trident’s “Worst
Person Ever,” The Rebel Yell had an entire page titled “People We
Can Get Along Without.” Here is a taste: “Jimmy Crawford, a strange
mixture of democracy and snobbery, has a penchant for undressing in
front of the windows  ‘Crit’ Currie continues to hold himself out
as a world champion ‘petter.’ If ‘they’ can stomach it, we shouldn’t
complain.”

One more: “If you are feeling blue or depressed just walk by Mc-
Grum’s (Drug Store) and perhaps Charlie Wright will speak to you.
When he is in unusually high spirits he will speak to every tenth man
that passes. Possibly his extreme cordiality may be attributed to the fact
that he is an SAE.”

There were many more students that were lampooned in the article.
The Rushton Brothers were “twin arguments for Racial Suicide,” etc.,
etc. The stories could have come right out of the Trident except these
snobs, drunks and peculiar types were written about 87 years ago!
Both the writers and the scorned walked the same stately campus all
of you share today.

Here’s my point: Like most of you, I cringed when I tread the Tri-
dent Bracket issue. I agreed that apologies were required from the Two
Raging Intellectuals. Then I remembered and retrieved the Rebel Yell
and changed my mind. There is a place in every vibrant community
for those who make us cringe. I would hasten to add that the Trident
should steer well clear of cruelty. Finally, let me state that I find it
amazing that the SAEs have always been the same.

Steve Scully
Delta Tau Delta/ St. Ud’s Social Club
Class of 1976

Have a bit of decency!

Sunbathers on the Colonnade asking for ogling

By Grace Andrews
0 0 L U M N I ST

The issue of sunbathing, or better yet,
where you can and if you should sunbathe
is near and dear to my heart.

As many of you may or may not know, I
was born with a wonderful natural tan that
allows me to only sun worship for fun in-
stead of necessity or desire.

However, I realize that there are some
people who may require a bit of sun.

Yet, my problem is not that people need
sun but instead the places that people de-
cide to get this sun. For instance, I always
see people out on the BDG quad, the grassy
knoll by Gaines and the Colonnade. Al-
though I have my reservations about the
former, my problems arise with the latter.

You see, I am more understanding of
worshiping de la sol in the quad because
it’s a freshmen haven and it’s a little bit off
from academic buildings. However, it does
sit right next to a street that many non-W&L
individuals frequent, but I’ll let that go.

I just want to say that I have witnessed
cars almost lose control because the driver
couldn’t keep his or her eyeballs in their
face from straining so hard to watch the
young women in the quad.

But, like I said, I’ll let that go.

Now, I think that it is perfectly ﬁne to sit
out in a shirt and shorts, maybe even a hal-
ter top or any other shirt that allows maxi-
mum sun, minimum tan lines.

But I have trouble understanding why
people wear their skimpiest, most revealing
swimsuit to sit in the grass in front of the
Colonnade and Lee Chapel.

Seriously, the other day when I walked
by I thought Sports Illustrated was doing

the college swimsuit addition.

I was also a bit shocked since not only
does Lexington not have a beach, but also
we don’t always have sunbathing weather.

If it’s 60-75 degrees, you probably
shouldn’t be outside in a swimsuit that con-
sists of triangles that cover up your naughty
bits and string that barely holds it together.
That’s not enough clothing to keep a squir-
rel warm, let alone a full-grown human be-
ing.

If you want to do all that, I advise a trip

one wants to see all that, and by no one I
mean especially me.

I say save that for a more swimsuit-
friendly area.

Now, please don’t interpret my words to
be harsher than they are meant to be.

I just want to bring it to everyone’s atten-
tion that wearing swimsuits in places with
no water is interesting, to say the least.

When I approached my friends about
writing this article, many of them were sup-
portive and giggly at the idea of this topic.

You probably shouldn’t be outside in a swimsuit that con-

sists of triangles that cover up your naughty bits and string

that barely holds it together. That is not enough clothing to

keep a squirrel warm, let along a full-grown human being.

up to Goshen or even Virginia Beach.

Now, I know some of you may think I’m
being a hater, but that’s not my purpose.

I honestly would not mind if I didn’t
think that it is not kosher to run around or
sit about half naked where your professors,
families, prospective students and current
students have to walk by everyday.

I don’t want to see people tripping over
historical bricks because instead of looking
to see where they are going, they’re visually
harassing the people on the Colonnade.

I don’t want to see anyone wearing a
cast because they “accidentally” lost bal-
ance and “fell down” on the Colonnade.

Now matter how wonderful you look, no

I heard choruses of hallelujahs and
amens; I think the heavens openedup and
angels sang.

Seriously, next time that you decided to
sunbathe in public, please be considerate of
those who have to see you sunbathing.

Don’t just wear invisible clothing and
wonder why people are staring or judging
you.

Or if you do decided to wear a skimp
suit, please don’t be offended if someone
says something that isn’t as nice as it could
be.

My recommendation is to sunbathe on
the Colonnade if you’re wearing real clothes
and the quad or grassy knoll for swimsuits!

 
 
  
    
    
   
   
 
   

M Jacob Geiger

IKQAIQAGING EDITOR

_ . Today, Pm ashamed to be a Washing-
? n and Lee student.

‘I ..’m ashamed that my university pros-
Autos students with secret tribunals.
l’m_ashamed that my university and
e cowardly Student Faculty Hearing
 don’t have any use for due pro-
cess,  trials or the First Amendment
 though the board is chaired by law
Iofessor David Brook and senior Marga-

editorial

ecret trial? Shame on W&L

Sexual assualt decision obliterates free speech  

So let’s get this straight. There were
no witnesses and no evidence, no right
to cross examination and no public

hearing. Where the hell was this hear-
ing held? The W&L law school or North
Korea‘?

Despite the total lack of evidence or
due process, the SFHB ~which is charged
solely with investigating cases of sexual
misconduct — chose to put Livingston and
Mulhern on probation because they were
supposedly guilty of “conduct unbecom-
ing” of W&L students.

   
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
    
  

  

Last week, the mysterious SFHB held
a*secretf'hearing where Tim Livingston
and Mychael Mulhem - the authors of
;“'I'hc‘ Bracket” — were charged with a
, A variety of crimes ranging from sexual
V-grrﬁsconduct to the ever mysterious and
“ obnoxious “conduct unbecoming of a
Washington and Lee student.”

I The board met in secret. Livingston
and Muiliein were not told the identity of
their accuser even though the accuser had
not actually appeared in “The Bracket”
when it ran in the Trident last month.

171 The SFHB’s oﬂicial statement, penned
by Stuck and Elkins, eﬁectively describes
what a race this idiotic hearing was: ‘

_ -5“,Because the sole complainant wished

._ Aided with no witnesses or evidence
arding the actual effect, if any, of the

upon the persons named in it. According-
the evidence presented at the hearing

1‘ Soiletfs get this straight. There were no witnesses and
  ’evt'dence_, no right to cross examination and no

:3 pilblic» hearing. Where the hell was this hearing held?
I he. W&L law school or North Korea?

Fitting with the kangaroo court pro-
ceedings that prevail at W&L, there is no
deﬁnition of what “conduct unbecoming”
actually means. In fact, the SFHB isn’t
even supposed to be able to hear cases in-
volving “conduct unbecoming.” That job
falls to the"Student Judicial Council.

Amazingly enough, the faculty and
students on the SFHB have appointed
themselves judge and jury over Livings-
ton and Mulhern even though the students
are appointed by the Executive Commit-
tee and the faculty are appointed by the
provost. Wonderful! An appointed group,
meeting in secret, has the power to expel
(that’s right, expel!) students who offend
the sensibilities of one anonymous mem-
ber of our community.

The SFHB was formed to hear cases
involving possible sexual misconduct.
When the board decided that Livingston
and Mulhern were not guilty of sexual
misconduct, that should have been the
end of the case (though I would argue that

this case should never have existed in the F *
first place). ’ . ,.

Instead, the board chose to overstcp its ‘
authority and punish speech. In effect, the _
board was saying that it doesn’t believe in «,3
the First Amendment. I

Speech does not enjoy absolute pro«
tection, of course. People who feel they
have been wronged can always sue an 7 
author on grounds of libel or invasion of
privacy. Those cases, of course, are heard '
in a courtroom, in front of a jury, in the A
public eye and under standard rules of 5’?
evidence. I I I 7

They are not heard in secret on a
Wednesday night. They are not heard by 
a group of unelected students and faculty 
members who appear to have little idea ‘of 7
what they are doing. _ ‘

Why has this university - aplace where ; ,
President Ken Ruscio supposedly wants ’
to encourage open debate and exchanges
of ideas ~ censoring speech? Why do stu-
dents and faculty think it is acceptable for .
an anonymous person to haul two student I
journalists before a secretive boardthat
has the power to expel them?

President Ruscio, deans, faculty and F 
students should all be ashamed that they I
are allowing this ﬁne institution to so cal-
lously throw away the values of free ex-
pression. When didit become acceptable!
practice to sanction authors for unpopular I
words? I 7:

Everyone agrees that “The Bracket”
was tasteless and offensive. But everyone
should also agree the United States - and
W&L - are not places where unpopular ‘5
speakers can be punished by secret, un~_» _
elected tribunals.   ‘

Sadly, this is the case at W&L. An
unelected tribunal can hear anonymous!

complaints and expel students who put» V V

lish divisive or unpopular articles. 
The next time someone asks me where f

I go to school, I won’t be able to answer.  if
I’ll be ashamed to tell them I’m a stu~ 

dent at Washington and Lee. ' 5

 

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2008

arts&|ife

 

Memorializing Lee

Lee Chapel museum re-opens with new features

ByJamle Klm
sun wmnsn

. Lee Chapel — completed in

1867 when Robert E. Lee was
president of what was then

Washington College — is the

central shrine of Washington

and Lee University.
Recently, the Lee Chapel
museum re-opened after a $1-

million renovation that had it
closed for about a year. It is
now fully installed with new
exhibitions and an improved

museum shop.
“It was a very extensive in-
stallation,” said Linda Donald,

manager of Lee Chapel and

Museum. The installation last-
. ed from January 2007 to "Octo-

ber 2007, but the planning took

about two years before actually
getting started on the installa-
tion process.

With the renovation of the
main exhibition, the Lee Of-
ﬁce, and the museum shop,
three projects were going on
simultaneously, said Donald.
Additional interpretive pan-
els, which provide the visitors
with information about the ex-
hibitions, were also installed
upstairs in the Lee Chapel, in-

cluding the statue chamber of

Robert E. Lee.

From 1865 until his death
in 1870, Lee served as presi-
dent of Washington College.
The Lee Office was an actual
ofﬁce in which Lee conducted
his business, and it was also a
social hall where students came
in and out while Lee was in his
office. “It would be as if the
President of the school had his
oﬂice in the living room of the

Commons,” said Donald.

One of the biggest changes
from the renovation includes
this oﬂice, said Patricia Hobbs,
curator of Lee Chapel and Mu-
seum. Information panels were
added on the rail, and the rail-

‘ way has been extended more

into the office so that visitors
could have more access to view
the room.

For the preservation of the
office, ﬁber-optic lighting that
causes the least harm on the dis-
plays is now used, and the win-
dows are covered with blinds to

would understand what Robert
E. Lee’s role and responsibility
were.”

Moreover, 2007 was a year
of the 400th anniversary of the
settlement of Virginia, so the
renovation of the museum was
a part of a statewide celebra-
tion. It was also the 250th anni-
versary of the birth of Marquis
de Lafayette, a French mili-
tary ofﬁcer who supported the
American Revolution.

“The University felt strongly
that it was good to share our ob-
jects with the rest of the coun-

“To some, [Lee Chapel] is the most sig-

mﬁcant place on campus...it was kept as a

shrine or a memorial to [Lee]. ”

LINDA DONALD, Lee Chapel and Museum manager

block the natural light.

“To some, it is the most sig-
niﬁcant place on campus,” said
Donald. After Lee’s death, the
board of trustees decided that
the ofﬁce was not to be used by
other presidents. “It was kept
as a shrine or a memorial to
him,” she said.

The extensive renovation of
the museum was an expensive
but a necessary initiative, ac-
cording to Hobbs.

The year 2007 was the
200th anniversary of Robert E.
Lee’s birth, and the University
wanted to do something special
for the celebration. “My sug-
gestion was to add text panels
to Lee’s Oﬁice so that [visitors]

try,” said Hobbs. “We decided
we would take the opportunity
to add some more interpreta-
tions.”

She explained the process
of receiving several grants and
consulting special history schol-
ars to talk about the new exhibi-
tion. “It was very rewarding to
ﬁnd out that it was a fairly sim-
ple thing to do,” said Hobbs.
“The older exhibition was very
tightly designed...Now it can
be easily moved around.”

Every year, many different
types of visitors come to the
Lee Chapel and Museum, and
75 percent of them visit starting
in late April until the end of Oc-
tober. Some are strictly focused

on Robert E. Lee, some simply
stumble upon the area off an in-
terstate, and some come for the
natural beauty of the area, said
Donald.

In addition to handling the
museum staff members, Don-
ald also deals with weddings in
the Lee Chapel.

Anyone can have a wedding
in the chapel, but people affili-
ated with Washington and Lee
receive preference. The chapel
has about 20-35 weddings per
year, operated under a three-
tiered system.

The priority ﬁrst goes to
alumni, students‘ and faculty,
then to people from the neigh-
boring Virginia Military Insti-
tute and local citizens. Other re-
quests have the lowest priority.
This policy began three years
ago. Before that, people from
outside Lexington could not
have a Lee Chapel wedding.

Washington and Lee is a
unique institution, the history
of which coincides with much
of American history, during the
American Revolution and later.

Through Lee Chapel and
Museum, the University has
tried to inform not only the
students but also visitors from
all over the country about the
history of the institution and
its indirect, and in some ways
symbolic, correlation with the
American history.

It is a resource for the entire
community and an ambassador
to the public for the University,
said Hobbs. “lt’s important for
students of local history,” she
said. “That’s what the museum
is all about.”

Biology receives grant

$1.3 million grant to enrich curriculum, provide technology

By Brett Holton
STAFF WRITER

This coming fall, Washing-
ton and Lee science students
will have even more tools at
their ﬁngertips to give them a
leg up upon graduation.

The Howard Hughes Medi-
cal Institute (HHMI) awarded
W&L a $1.3 million grant to
help students acquire the nec-
essary skills for today’s career
ﬁeld in biological sciences.

The programs provided by
the grant will be put into place
in September.

“The grant...will be used to
enrich the science curriculum
by including more integration
across different courses and
departments, and especially in-
cluding more quantitative and
computational work to give
students the skills they need to
understand today’s world of sci-

ence,” said W&L provost, Dr.
June Aprille.

Aprille said that to achieve
this goal, the university will hire
new faculty who have expertise

Nate Adkins, a sophomore bi-
ology and prospective pre-med
student. “Medical school is be-
coming more of a technology-
based education, and this will

“I will be exposed to more technology and

applications of the biological sciences...

Medical school is becoming more of a tech-

nology—based education, and this will allow

me to be exposed to that sooner. ’

I

NATE ADKINS, sophomore biology student

 

in database analysis and com-
puter modeling systems.

“I will be exposed to more
technology and applications of
the biological sciences,” said

allow me to be exposed to that
sooner.”

The HHMI grant will also
be used to facilitate commu-
nity outreach. According to the

grant proposal summary, new
service-learning courses will be
added that will enable students
to teach science in local K-5
classrooms.

“The HHMI grants are quite
prestigious, and it is a national
feather in W&L’s cap to have
won the award,” said Aprille.

Aprille also hopes that the
grant will attract future prospec-
tive students interested in the
biological sciences.

HHMI is a nonproﬁt medi-
cal research organization. It was
founded in 1953 by Howard R.
Hughes, the aviator and indus-
trialist. HHMI headquarters are
located in Chevy Chase, Md.
The organization employs more
than 2,600 individuals across
the U.S. and has an endowment
of$16.3 billion.

The grant was awarded to
only 48 of the 192 applicants.

W&L attracts new leaders

Johnson program also responsible for huge jump in admissions applications

By Alllson Chopln
STAFF WRITER

Leadership programs may
help Washington and Lee gain
national and international recog-
nition as a top-notch liberal-arts
college. At least, that’s what
Professor Rob Strong hopes the
Johnson Program will do.

Last May, a $100 million do-
nation was made to W&L to sup-
port leadership programs. The
unprecedented gift was made
by Henry Johnson ’62, the Vice
Chairman of Franklin Templeton
Investments.

$85 million will go towards
the Johnson Scholarship, allow-
ing talented high school students
without the ﬁnances to attend
W&L. There will be 44 Johnson

Scholars in next year’s freshman
class.

The program was heavily ad-
vertised and total of applications
jumped to over 6,000, up almost
50 percent from last year.

The remaining $15 million
will be used toward the Johnson
Program, providing for two new
faculty positions, internships
for W&L juniors, and an annual
symposium. Strong was named
director of the Johnson Program
two weeks ago.

“This is a huge new oppor-
tunity for the whole campus,”
Strong said. He believes the new
leadership programs will not
only enhance W&L’s reputation
as a strong liberal-arts college,
but bring it to the attention of a

greater number of households in
the United States and around the
world.

That is because the Johnson
Program has been heavily adver-
tised with an emphasis on “lead-
ership and integrity,” Provost
June Aprille said. The incoming
Johnson Scholars will be at the
forefront of this initiative.

But leadership programs are
not new at Washington and Lee.
Burr Datz, the director of Lead-
ership Development and coordi-
nator of Religious life, has been
leading seminars on leadership
and the high ropes course near
the pavilion since 2001.

“We believe you as students
are to govern yourselves be-
cause you assume responsibility

and tend to thrive with it,” he
said. Datz challenges students
to work with their peers on the
ropes course and he gives weekly
classes on leadership skills.

Last week the Ofﬁce of Lead-
ership Development sponsored
“Lessons in Leadership,” a talk
given by Bobby Ross, a former
football coach. The program will
continue with William Johnson
’6l, who is speaking on Tues-
day from his experience as the
former President and CEO of the
New York Stock Exchange.

Aprille said the Oﬂice of
Leadership Development will re-
ceive no direct funding from the
Johnson Program, but “the two
programs will no doubt comple-
ment one another.”

The ﬂntique Mall
760 N. Lee Hwy

Ne-x.t To Tractor Supply
'12: l.lf”1€:’? Heart. of Lexington, VA 24450

(540) 464-5555

Selling tmeique furniture and
aceessnriesfor the:
.I30rrrz -~ Apm*tme'nt -—- House

Monday «- Saturday
10:80 a..:m. -- 6:00 13,111.

Sunday
11:08 am. -—- 6:00 p.m.

A Great Pla.ce to Entertain. .Parents!!.3’

T?z.e.ree’s §E.a‘a::2met'hin.g for Everyonelf.

Oil Exchange & Lube

754 North Lee Hwy.
Across from Tractor Supply
540-463-5020

Save $1.00 —— Show W&L ID

 

Timber Ridge Auto Center
Efis E fr} "v"alIey' Pike
.l..ex‘irngt:o‘n, VA 24450
(3413) 464- l 997’

   

ASE ee.;mssa"i5§"iqac1Ares

F'ereig'.ta and [Domestic "Repairs
Gil ciizmge anti .LttE3e., .45”-s..:“a‘C?, Computer Diagnostics.
;‘v‘li§*3.:.:>r aria? Majcir jigixtgine R.e_paE.r, Brakes,

Mei ‘lniectirtsn Se1"vic.e, Transmission Service,
Cociézint ‘E?-‘iuséi, Mi run” and Major Tune -ups.
Wt: i::“t'lT§ gzzarewarie factzory at:tI*it3ri.2:e«:l maintenance
w%tE1r.':mt wzsictirig ycatzr m;m.a..fa.ct:ure’s. wa.rrar1ty.

H 2?/fézjcxr {Zrerlii Cards Acrrepteci

 

  
 
 

$3
reer

  

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREER@SERVICES

540-452-235
ca reers.wLu.c0lu

 

MONDAY, MAY 12, zoos

 

THE RING-TUM PHI '5

 

sports

After 60 years Harw Lee is back

Albert Sidney and Harry Lee crew rivalry restarts with Maury River showdown

MICHAEL KEENAN/ Sports Editor

TOP: The Harry Lee Boat Club of (L to R) Caitlin
Foster, Parker Sheppard, Julie Mancini, Jarret
Brotzman and Denis O’Leary, takes part in the
Albert Sidney-Harry Lee Boat Race on the Maury
above the dam, for the first time in 60 years. The
race began in 1875 and was a huge campus event
for decades. The last race was in 1948 with the
Albert Sidney Club as the winner.

LEFl': Caitlin Foster celebrates and Parker Shep-
pard stares toward shore with a sense of satisfac-
tion after the Harry Lee Club won by a decisive
margin.

BOTTOM LEFT: The Harry Lee Club powers its way
through the last 400 meters of the race, as the
Albert Sidney Club trys to make its way out of the
trees on the bank of the river after being forced into
shore by agressive steering that surely is represena-
tive of the fierce rivalry between the two clubs.
BOTTOM RIGHT: Members of both clubs pose in
front of their new Wintech bow-coxed four man
boat, which they bought as a result of their fund-
raising efforts. The members of the clubs are from
left to right: the Albert Sidney Club of coxswain
Maggie Fiscow, bow Kathryn Krall, two-seat An-
drew Rubin, three-seat Jamie Boldrick and stoke
Grant Russell and The Harry Lee Club of bow Denis
O’Leary Ill, two-seat Jarret Brotzman, three-seat Ju-
lie Mancini and coxswain. Following the race, there
was a reception at Pole 6 for the team, members

of the university community, and alumni where the
members of the winning team were presented with
pictures of the original trophy for the race, the Pick-
ney Cup, that has been lost to the ages.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

  

10 - THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

Mon Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT Sun
\lVomen’s
Tennis
Track
Golf "CM
Tourney

numbers
422 1

Number of points scored by sophomore Maggie Sutherland in the hep-

 

tathlon at the Generals’ Combined Event Challenge on Saturday and
Sunday. Sutherland’s score is the 19th best division three score in the

country this year.

38

Consecutive wins for the women's tennis team as they enter the third
round of the NCAA tournament. The Generals’ have not lost since
dropping a 5-4 match to Williams on March 31, 2007. The Generals

face Gustavus Adolphus on Tuesday.

6

Coaches the New York Knicks have had since the start of the 2003-
04 NBA season. Former Phoenix head coach Mike D‘Antoni agreed in
principle to a four-year, $24 million contract with the Knicks on Satur-

day.

3

Teams from the Great Western Lacrosse League to make the NCAA
division one lacrosse championships, the most ever. Combined with
the domination of the Northwestern Wildcats on the women's side,
who have won the past three NCAA titles, lacrosse is expanding its

geographical reach beyond the Eastern establishment.

10

English Premier League titles for Manchester United in the past 16
seasons. Manchester won its tenth title by defeating Wigan 2-0 on

Sunday.

7

Number of Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse players selected to the
All—ODAC Team. Senior Will Englehart andjuniors Harry St. John and A

James Shanahan were selected to the first team.

 
  
 

box

“Malkln’s blast, his second goal of the night,

was a middle-ﬁnger salute to the Flyers, whose
game plan coming in was to outmuscle the Pen-
guins, crash the net and take away their time and

space.”

ESPN’s Scott Burnside on Pittsburgh Penguins’ Evgenl Malkln’s
short-handed goal in the ﬂrst game of the conference ﬂnals against
the rival Philadelphia Flyers.

“We’re going to make some adjustments and
we’re going to win this game. I'm not being ar-
rogant or cocky or anything like that. I think [Sat-
urday] we let it slip out of our hands. Game 2 we

let it slip out of our hands. We're going to win this

game in Detroit.”

Orlando Magic guard Jameer Nelson, guaranteeing a victory against
the Detroit Pistons in Game 5 of their series.

 

Lord Jeffs u pset
Generals in NCAAs

Women is lacrosse
    fallsto Amherst. 4*

By Russ Weems
‘ STAFF WRITER

The women’s lacrosse team’s run in the NCAA tour-
nament continued this week as they took on Amherst
College. The match would mean quarterﬁnal meeting
__ with Franklin and Marshall for the winner and an end
to the season for the loser. W&L came into the game
ranked sixth; Amherst was ranked eleventh.

The game started out close and was hotly contested
 throughout. Amherst opened up the scoring as Amy

' Craig tallied unassisted with 26:52 left in the ﬁrst half.
W&L responded quickly when Kelsi Robinson scored
off of an assist from Laura Henson, tying the contest 
at 1-1. After another goal from Amherst, the Generals
scored two in a row to take the lead 3-2. However, this
lead didn’t last for long. About a minute later, the game
was tied up at 3-3, and, at the end of the half, the Lord
Jeffs of Amherst led 6-4.

W&L started the second half strong, getting a quick
goal from Laura Henson of off an assist from Chris-
tine Bender. This brought the Generals within one goal
with 29:13 to go in the second half. In the next ﬁve
minutes the teams traded goals to make the game 7-6.
Amherst then went on a deﬁnitive three goal run with
under seven minutes left to put the score at 10-6. W&L
added a couple of late goals, but it was too little and too
late as the Generals fell 10-8, ending their season. .

W&L did end the season with some strong individual
performances. Kelsi Robinson and Laura Henson both
scored two goals for the Generals. Christine Bender,
Emily Mathews, Megan Slosson, and Britten Mathews
also found the back of the net for the Generals. Sarah
Tilbor played all 60 minutes in goal for W&L saving
ﬁve shots.

The team ends their year with a 17-3 (8-0 ODAC)
record and a sixth straight ODAC championship.

Sutherland
qualifies

NAME / position

Senior Laura Henson scored two goals and added an assitst
for the Generals during their 10-8 loss to the Lord Jeffs of
Amherst on Saturday.

After two days .
and seven events,
Sutherland gets
provisional out for
NCAA championships

I

Sophomores Maggie Sutherland and Sallie Arm-
strong competed in the Generals Combined Event
Challenge on Saturday and Sunday. Sutherland
totaled 4,221 points, the 19th highest mark in Di-
vision Ill, and set a school record in her best event,
the 100m hurdles, by finishing in a time of 15.18
seconds. Sutherland was also the top performer in
the high jump, clearing 1.57m and placed second
overall behind Bridgewater’s Courtney Hartman.
Armstrong finished in third with a score of 3,750
points. Junior Elizabeth Webb ran a provisional
qualifying time for nationals by finishing the
1,500m run in 4:37.90.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

 

