.\““

 

    exhibit dispiays .I

Huntley Hall 

grotesque bodies
ARTS 8: LIFE / page 7 A

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR

THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXI, NUMBER 2

Two foreign males entered the hallway on Davis dormitory’s third floor and entered several rooms of its female residents.

By Joel Poelhuls
STA FF WRITER

Two South African visitors en-
tered severalr freshman girls’ rooms
uninvited late Wednesday night after
parties, even climbing into bed with
girls who were asleep.

Though neither is a student
of Washington and Lee, brothers
Jacques and Marscell Newman, ages
22 and 21 respectively, were able to
enter Davis and Gilliam dorms.

According to freshman Joan
Oguntimein, the brothers went from
room to room on the girls’ halls, ask-
ing for a place to sleep before their
drive to the airport in the morning.

Oguntimein continued that the
two were forceful in their demands,
closing the door of her room in Davis
behind them after entering.

She ﬁrst became aware of the in-
truders when she heard them talking
to boys on Davis’ 2nd floor. Jacques
and Marscell then ascended to the 3rd

 

MICHAEL KEENAN / staff photographer

"I thought it was a

dream, so I just turned
over Then, I got turned

back over and felt my

hand being moved. ”

SUMMER LOLLIE,
Class of 2011

ﬂoor and began entering girls’ rooms.

Freshman Gaby Albuja, who also
lives in Davis, was sleeping when
the two entered her room around
2:30 a.m.

After talking with the men for a
while, Albuja reports that one of them
insisted on spending the night and
climbed into her bed. She promptly
left the room to tell her Dorm Coun-
selor, junior Jamila Seaton, who

See “SECURlTY" on page 3

Beta promises
new experience

Fraternity returns to campus
after four-year hiatus, looks for
men of exceptional character

By Catherine carlock
c 0 pr E D ITO R

Sayonara, Kappa Sig. Bienvenido, Beta.

That’s right, Beta is back.

According to Adam Porter Price, Beta Theta
Pi’s Senior Leadership Consultant, the fraternity’s
return to campus will be “a big extravaganza.”
Price is a 2006 alumnus the University of Connect-
icut’s Zeta Chi chapter.

Four years have passed since Beta Theta Pi’s
Alpha Rho chapter at Washington and Lee had
their charter revoked.

According to Price, Beta’s alcohol and drug
abuse was widespread. But even more serious
were allegations against the fraternity for serious
hazing violations. With the help of W&L officials,
Beta alunmi and the General Fraternity (similar to
Nationals), Beta’s chapter at W&L closed in 2004.

According to Price, there was a “consensus that
the chapter needed to be closed in order for it to be
good again.”

Even though Beta had not been a formally rec-
ognized fraternity for several years, it still had a
presence on and off campus last year. Former Beta
members have occupied a house called Pole 1.

Matt Leisman, a ﬁfth-year senior and a former
Beta, said that his fraternity was “just a bunch of
really good guys who loved having a good time”
and who “didn’t care what other people thought.”

This past spring brought the graduation of most
of the 2004 Beta pledge class. As a result, the Beta
General Fraternity has again partnered with W&L
ofﬁcials and Beta alumni to re-colonize the Alpha
Rho chapter.

For most of Fall Tenn, Price will do the re-
cruiting himself. In November, however, Beta’s
General Fraternity will send three to four more ad-
ministrators to campus to aid Price in his search.
Then, in January, the formal expansion process
will begin.

Because of W&L’s deferred recruitment pro-
cess, Price has plenty of time to get‘ to know po-
tential new members. These new members can be
“anybody who is not currently in a fraternity” said
Price. This includes independent upperclassmen
and freshmen men.

According to Price, the new Alpha Rho is go-
ing to be different from the old chapter in three
signiﬁcant ways: V

0 No hazing. Price said he wants new member
experiences to be “totally, 100 percent positive.”

0 Responsible use of alcohol.

0 A closer understanding of the values of Beta
Theta Pi.

Price is currently seeking leaders, scholars
and gentlemen. Instead of waiting for potential
pledges to come to him, Price is seeking them out
himself. He’s asking professors for referrals of
stellar students; he’s asking dorm counselors for
referrals of quality gentlemen.

What deﬁnes a gentleman is “a really hard thing
to know” said Price. “It’s kind of a gut feeling for
me.” He wants “guys who everybody looks up to.”
In other words, Price wants “role models.”

According to Leisman, Beta’s “expectations are
oi? the charts.”

“It’s good-hearted but it’s not something that’s

See “BETA” on page 2

Sobriety checkpoints will become routine in Lexington

Police issued several reckless driving tickets for over-crowded vehicles at traﬁic checkpoint at the East Lexington Bridge

By Brett Holton and Queenie
Wong '
STAFF WRITERS

Ann Marie Russell does not
drink. Instead, she ensures that
her friends who choose to drink
can get around safely.

That is why Friday, Sept. 7,
she was happy to drive her friends
out to Windfall Hill. She had one
more person than her car could
hold, forcing two of her friends to
share the front seat.

Little did she know that the
Lexington police were running a
checkpoint that evening, and she

“Just because you ’re on the bus, its not safe base. You

set one up and [to] always have an
alternative plan,” he said.

Lt. Miller said that although a.m.

and West and on Route 11 North
and South from 10 p.m. until 2

granted, the money is used to cov-
er a wide range of public safety
issues, including pedestrian safety

still have to behave. If you ’re on the bus and you ’re ﬂip-

ping me off and you think ‘Oh, I ’m on the bus, the police

can ’t do anything, ’ you ’re dead wrong. ”

LT. BUCKY MILLER, Lexington Police Department

would be charged under Virginia
law for reckless driving. --
Russell, who felt she was do-
ing a public service, said, “It’s
just frustrating to me, because if
I weren’t there someone would
have been driving drunk.”
Although it is rumored that the

sobriety checkpoint was aimed at
catching drunk drivers, DUI’s are
actually the least common tickets
issued in such efforts, Lt. A.M.
“Bucky” Miller said.

“The goal of the checkpoint is
to make everyone realize that you
never know when we’re going to

these checks will not be run
monthly, W&L students will
definitely see more in the future.
Friday’s checkpoint was the ﬁrst
to occur for the 2007-2008 aca-
demic year. The last checkpoint
during the 2006-2007 year was
held in December.

At the checkpoint, 12 Lex-
ington Police ofﬁcers and seven
state troopers conducted a trafﬁc
checkpoint at the East Lexington
Bridge. The police stopped trafﬁc
both ways on State Road 631 East

That night, the police arrested
one individual, not of the W&L
community, for driving under the
inﬂuence. They also issued eight
court summons on counts of reck-
less driving and faulty equipment,
such as cracked windshields or
malfunctioning headlights.

The checkpoint was funded by
an annual $5,000 grant from the
Department of Motor Vehicles
that expires on Sept. 31. The
police department must reapply
for this grant every year. When

and emergency medical services.
In order to receive the grant,
the police department issues a
plan outlining the guidelines of
the checkpoint to the state. For
example, if trafﬁc is backed up
more than 300 feet, officers begin
checking every other car, every
ﬁfth car or simply allow all cars
to pass through, Miller said.
Sophomore Vivian Schreeder,
who knows sober drivers who

see “SOBRIETY” on page 3

 

 

Uﬂlﬂw LIRARV
VlA8Hl?€TON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

2 - THE RlNG—TUM PHI '

news

SEP ?. 8 2007

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

e es I1 image

    

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

F raternity representative looks‘ to recruit scholars‘ and “quality gentlemen”

continued from page number 1

going to be successful on this campus,” said
Leisman. “Most kids hcrc \ron‘t go for it.”

Betzfs 3.05 (IEPA requirement is one ofthe high-
est of any fraternity in the country. Accorcling to
Lcisman, this cxpcctation is ‘‘ridiculous.’‘

“I wouldift have been able to go Beta as a fresh-

man under his requirements. I still think ofiny.sell'

as a pretty decent person." said Lcisman.

The old Alpha Rho will share the same house. the
same name, and the same university with the new
Alpha Rho. But the two will he distinctly separate
chapters.

“My fraternity will always.‘ be close within our
own chapter,” said Leisinan. “In no way will I cvcr
feel close to [The General li“l'i1lt3l‘l)ll}"V].” 5

Price wants to make clear that joining Beta “is
not just a social experience." There  of course, a
social component. and he does not want to down-
play that. Beta can, however. provide a "‘hecl< of a

SEPT. 9. 2007
Sttt - 8 Eli
raisin: STAGE

far rm ttzidxx
‘ '< 

  
  

 
 

   
5  :' foam nae

      
  
 
 
  
  
  

 
   
 

VV 8:14 "I‘I-1eaTeR

   

Cluimoiis FOR.‘

Siiiieiii liioitaie 2007
HlGHLlGilllllG tlCTOR5,D0llC€RS,llllGl?RS

Sui, Sept. 9, 2007
5 - 8 pm
lohnson Theatre / Leiifest Hall ‘

Oiiieiio,

lie moot or V€lllC€
0’l0ll., Sept. l0, 7007
Tues., Sept. ll. 2007

- l0 pm

0 Kelleilhealre l leniest Hall

For more infomation.
C0lll3(i iiicelli:iniinnc@wlu.edu

lot more resources tlian just a social network.“

It offers “huge amounts of" academic scholar- 

sliips.” said Price. it will offer a positive new mem-
ber cducation (run by Price hiinsell’) rather than a
physically and psychologicall_y damaging one.

“Wc’re not going to do anything that’s going to
wz'is1'c gu}/‘s time," said Price.

With Kappa Sigma Nationals revoking the char- V
ter of its Mu chapter this summer. tumors have cir- ; ‘
culatetl around campus that thcsc former pledges ’

will get automatic bids to Beta.
According to Price. this is not the case.

"We tlon’t do package deals,” said Price. He is 'i

looking at the individual. not the individual and his
three Friends.

“Wc’rc really looking for the cream of the crop .5

liere.” said Price.

To /earn more about Beta Tlreta Pi. i:i.rI't gobet(1—
lodqiacom or C0K1I(,IC’! Adam Porter Price at adam.
prir 'e7.\/ct?/ielut/7eta;)i. org.

Beta representative Adami U
Porter Price hosts a barbeque
for perspective members.

Sell Trips,

   
 
 
 

 

Jamaica

Spring Break 2008.

and Go Free. Call for
group discounts. Best
Deals Guaranteed!
,Cancun,
Acapulco,
S. Padre, Florida.
800-648-4949 or
www.ststravel.com.

Earn Cash

Bahamas,

  

 

Oil Exchange
& Lube

754 Nortli Lee Hwy.
Across from ractor Supply
540-463-5020

Save $1.00 —- Show W&l..
ll.)

  

‘WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES
Walk-ln Times

Quick Questions
Monday through Friday
l0-llam and 2-3pm
Short questions, short answers

After Hours
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
4-7pm
Last minute questions and coffee

No appointment necessary
Specializing in resume review

Visit careers.wlu.edu »
*** Sign-up for \X/&L JobLink ***

careersgagwluedu . 540-458-8595

% Town & Country Places ﬁg

108 Lee Avenue
Historic i884 Victorian-Gothic
townhouse on avenue of
signiﬁcantly liistoric homes.
Charming hall. living and
dining rooms w/ it)‘ ceilings,

3 hedrnom.s. 3 baths, eat~in
kitchen, sun room, and
spacious deck. $649900

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

+5-

Stoncyl"ield
Premium river front acreage
only 6 minutes from Lexing-
ton. 14.8 acres fronting on
the Maury River and (‘old
Run Crock. W oods views,
and privacy! $372,230.

223 Sensensey Lane
Recently remodeled town home.
l"i'eslily painted. new vinyl 
carpet. new sink, faucets. up-
graded batlis & kitchen appli-
ances. Walking distance to col-
leges and schools. $3 49,9()0.

 

MEAD

«wires

Lucy Turner, GR]
(540) 463-7 l 68
lucy@meadpropcrties.com

 2l N. Main Street, Lexington
 ' ‘‘‘“’* wxwv.meadpropeitiescom

 

  

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

  IIGWS

Sobriety Check

continued from page 1
received reckless driving citations, said she
felt that these checkpoints did not promote safe-
ty as they were meant to. ' V
For example, reckless driving citations were
given for having even one too many passengers
in a vehicle.
“I think [the police] just wanted an excuse
to give people tickets,” Schreeder said.
Given the crawling pace of traffic, students

' tried to ﬁt as many people as possible into ve-

hicles headed back to campus, making such ci-
tations a common occurrence for the night.

Reckless driving in Virginia is punishable
by up to one year in jail and/or a ﬁne of up to
$2,500, as well as a possible suspension of driv-
ing privileges for up to six months.

Therefore, Miller cautioned W&L students
to avoid seating vehicles past their capacity.

“Just because you’re doing a good thing
doesn’t mean you can break the law to do that

good thing,” he said.

Miller also stressed the issue of liability.

If the driver of the vehicle should get into a
wreck, he or she would be liable for a lawsuit as
would the Greek organization that hired him.

Both Miller and W&L strongly urge W&L
students to use Traveller, the school’s bus sys-
tem, as their alternate mode of transportation
when driving is not an option.

Miller added, “Just because you’re on the
bus, it’s not safe base.”

“You still have to behave. If you’re on the
bus and you’re ﬂipping me off and you think
‘Oh, I’m on the bus, the police can’t do any-
thing,’ you’re dead wrong.”

Miller said he was pleasantly surprised to
see a large number of community members, in-
cluding W&L students, thank police officers for
keeping the roads free of drunk drivers.

Security
continued from page 1

called security. The Newmans left.

“They were friendly,” Albuja said, “but they ended
up being a little too friendly.”

After exiting Davis, the two brothers entered Gil-
liam dorm where they continued to harass female resi-
dents.

Freshman Gilliam resident Summer Lollie was
asleep in her room around 3 a.m. when she felt an ex-
tra weight on her bed.

“l thought it was a dream, so I just turned over,”
Lollie said, “then I got turned back over and felt my
hand being moved.”

When the men tried to touch her inappropriately,
Lollie screamed, waking her roommate.

The trespassers ﬂed immediately, and the girls did
not report the incident to their Dorm Counselor that
night.

The Newmans had been staying with sophomore
Drew Crowley during the previous week at the Phi
Delta Theta fraternity house.

Crowley, who met Jacques over the summer in
Boston, said the two were well—liked around the house.
Crowley reports that there had been no incidents be-
fore Wednesday.

Freshman Cassandra Lewis said the brothers were
at a party she attended at Windfall Hill Monday night.

According to Crowley, Wednesday was the last day
the Newmans planned on being at W&L.

Crowley said he lost Contact with the brothers
Wednesday night. He added that the two planned to
catch a bus out of Lynchburg at 7 a.m. to New York,
where they were planning to ﬂy back to South Africa.

Michael Young, Director of Public Safety for W&L,
said security operations will not be altered by the in-
cident. However, he stressed the need for students to
be aware of who is coming into and going out of the
residence halls and to keep room doors locked.

Young said local police were not contacted. Dorm
counselors who were asked about the incident offered
no comment, in accordance with university policy.

Application and usage charges apply. ©2007 U.S. Cellular Corporation.

Introducing an enlightening new idea: Your Navigator

iffrom U.S. Cellular.® It's a GPS system with a local

“search function built right into your phone. With
voice—guided, turn-by-turn directions, clarity
and direction are just a call or a visit away.

 

 

US, Cellular is wireless where you matter most?”

sc.com 1-888-BUY-USCC

   

Arrive:21mEn it -1,
Im

 

 

  

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 4

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007'

opinions

 

Britney: Gimme no more

Her VIVA performance, full of stumbling and lip-syncing, could end her career

By Grace Andrews
COLUM NIST

For the past week, everyone
has been talking about the artist
formerly known as the Princess
of Pop, Britney Spears.

On Sept. 9, 2007, millions
of people gathered around their
televisions and watched the
MTV Video Music Awards for
what could have been the great-
est comeback in musical history;
instead it was one of the greatest
ﬂops ever seen.

Ms. Spears looked like a
drugged out impersonator teeter-
ing and tottering around the stage.
If you thought Ashlee Simpson’s
lip syncing performance on SNL
was bad, Britney made her look
like a seasoned professional.

At some points in her perfor-
mance, Ms. Spears would stop
singing all together and just stum-
ble around the stage some more.

Now, this terrible performance
could have been excused if Brit-
ney had come out in all of her
shimmery skin-colored-bodysuit
glory.

Instead, she came out in what
I will not compliment by calling
clothes... I will refer to them here
and ever after as undergarments.

So Ms. Spears had some unfor-
givably revealing undergarments,
terrible weave and questionable
make-up. It looked as if her vi-
sually impaired stylist had used

Elmer’s glue to apply some hair
stolen from a Bratz doll (that may
even be a compliment).

When I ﬁrst saw the atrocious-
ness that was on top of her head, I
said a silent prayer for the minia-
ture Clydesdale that had been kid-
napped and shaved to create those
terrible extensions.

When I say home-girl looked
bad, I mean BAD. All of America
probably watched the entire per-

formance with their jaws on the \

ground.

Sadly the shattering of jaws all
around the country was not only
from Britney’s two-tone hair.

Many people and magazines
have called Britney “fat” for the
way she looked at the VMA’s, but
I would like to say that fat is not
an accurate word in which to de-
scribe Britney.

This young lady has not only
had one but two kids. I have not
had even one child and I don’t
look that good.

v I think that the distinction peo-
ple want to make is that she is not
in quite the shape she used to be.
The self-professed crunchaholic
has clearly not been doing her
daily regimen of 1000 crunches.

But who can blame her, she’s
probably too busy almost drop-
ping her babies and partying so
hard she passes out on dance club
ﬂoors to focus entirely on exer-
cise.

The slight pooch could also be

a small present from the alcohol
king as a reward for the large in-
vestment she’s been making in his
empire.

All I have to say is that I per-
sonally feel terrible for Britney.
Her fall from glory almost rivals
that of the crazy man named Tom
Cruise.

I do not know about the rest
of America, but I was person-
ally rooting for her. As much as I
detest some of her songs, and by
some I mean almost all of them,
and believe her to be a terrible
actress and okay singer, I wanted
her to succeed.

I wanted Spears to prove to not
only the public, but to herself and
her boys that she could do it.

The young diva came out look-
ing like the neighborhood crack-
head instead of the girl next door
and proceed to dance in a manner
so lethargic that a 95-year-old
grandma could have beat her at
a game of Dance Dance Revolu-
tion.

There were points in the per-
formance where she looked back
at her dancers to see what they
were doing, only to wave her
hands at them and continue to
stumble around the stage like a
drunken Vagabond.

After watching the perfor-
mance laughed at from around the
world, I could not help but feel
deceived and cheated. If nothing
else, Britney has always been a

great performer.

No matter how terrible her
songs, you could always be guar-
anteed that she would give the
show of her life. Instead on that
fateful Sunday night, she gave the
performance that could END her
musical life.

Britney has ofﬁcially written
her page in the book of infamy.

Rumors has it that after the
performance Brit Brit ran off the
stage and cried her little languid
dancing heart out, as she should
have.

Had I been her, I would have
cried so much that my tears would
have created a baby Nile on the
stage.

However, I write this article
not only to vent, but to sort of ad-
vocate for Britney.

The stress of growing up in
Hollywood and the pressure of
success has become the common
Achilles heel of many stars. The
average person probably not only

has a hard time understanding, but '

also sympathizing with Britney.

I only pray that Ms. Spears
can get her life together in time to
keep her children and her dignity.

Britney needs help both emo-
tionally and psychologically and
she needs to return to her throne
of terrible bubblegum pop. As
much as I hate to admit it, she can
do better and deserves a better life
than what she has now.

Facebook stalking not a joke anymore

The site can help to waste hours of time, but make sure it doesn ’t replace real life

By Crlghton Allen
COLUMNIST

See if this sounds familiar: it’s
late and you have more homework
for one night than you did in your
entire senior year of high school.
You ﬁgure, okay, I’ll check my
Facebook for a second and then
I’ll hit the books.

When you ﬁnally emerge from
checking out your friend’s family
vacation to Rome and discovering
that the guy down the hall is ac-
tually a closet Gilmore Girls fan,
you look up blearily at the clock
and realize that it’s 1:00 am. and
that you still have 50 pages of
reading on free radical formation
for your organic chemistry class.

College students are the mas-
ters of procrastination and Face-
book is the single greatest inven-
tion in the history of time-wasting
since the launching of MTV.

F acebook has it all, no doubt.
You can review movies, post
comments on people’s walls 24/7,
and look at picture after picture of
your friends’ lives and wonder to
yourself “why doesn’t my fam-
ily go to Bora Bora? How come
I didn’t get a graduation trip to
Cozumel? And why don’t I have
a ski lodge in Vail?”

With all the hours of idle time-
wasting, though, come potential
consequences. Just ask Amy Po-
lumbo, the current Miss New Jer-
sey who earlier this summer was
held hostage by those threatening
to release scandalous photos of
her unless she relinquished her
title.

Where did the guys obtain the

photos? You saw it coming a mile
away, but it’s true: F acebook.
Polumbo was held in the pub-
lic spotlight for days until she beat
her foes to the punch, publicity
releasing the admittedly “unlady-
like” photos on the Today Show.
Polumbo was allowed to keep her
crown, but she caught loads of
unnecessary grief in the process.
But we’ve all been lectured
enough times about the dangers
of having unbecoming content

stand outside their window and
leave weird presents around, Boo
Radley style. But now, someone
can ﬁnd out everything about
you: your courses, your favor-

ite movies, anything that you-

post about yourself is fair game.
Some guys have resorted to using
Facebook as a primary method
of picking up girls. Guys ﬁnd a
girl, plot a “random run-in” as she
leaves class, and, in the ensuing
conversation, reveal their deep

Just make sure that you ’re not ﬁnding out

more about what you did on your nights out

from other people 19 pictures than what you

amd your friends can remember

on public forums, so the stories
about others getting in trouble for
indecent content on their proﬁles
may ring a bit hollow.

Just make sure that you’re not
ﬁnding out more about what you
did on your nights out from other
people’s pictures than what you
and your friends can remember.

Something you may not have
thought enough about concerning
Facebook is so called “stalking.”

Sure everyone has joked with
friends about “stalking” someone
and leaving comments on their
pictures or discovering their ob-
session with Ryan Adams, but
sometimes, this practice can be
turned into something else.

Before F acebook, the ‘ best
way to stalk an interest was to

passion for Death Cab for Cutie,
which is - what a coincidence —
her favorite band as well. Or the
guy could drop something else
that they share in common, like
they are both “Addicted to Star-
bucks!”

This happens, and it does not
get a pass. This practice is lame,
and guys (and possibly girls) who
employ this as the chief aspect of
their game spittin’ need to watch
“The Ladies Man” and pick up
some tips from Leon Phelps. Girls
fall every time for the offer of the
ﬁsh sandwich.

All joking aside, F acebook can
be a tool wielded by those who do
not have good intentions.

By many reports, cyberstalk-
ing—using the Internet and elec-

tronic communications to harass
and threaten people—is quietly
going strong in the United States.
Jayne Hitchcock, the president
of the anti-cyberstalking group

.. Working to Halt Abuse, says that

her organization receives between
50 and 100 reports of cyberstalk-
ing or online harassment each
week. Students who post personal
information on their proﬁles such
as phone numbers and addresses
put themselves at greater risk.

You’re probably thinking, but
only my F acebook friends can see
my proﬁle. However, there are
people out there with the time and
desire to get around obstacles like
that.

Bottom line, don’t accept a
friend request of a total stranger
and don’t post your dirty little se-
cret for the entire world to see.

One article I read said that
F acebook proﬁles should be treat-
ed like resumes. While no college

student alive uses it in a matter —

even close to that, practicing pru-
dence in what you tag, post, or
comment cannot hurt. Use‘Face-
book to keep in touch with friends
from high school, check out the
relationship status of the cutie in
your bio lab, (note to reader: use
of Facebook for this purpose is
allowable. To make your move,
use your own game, and ﬁnd and
poke the quarterback of the rival
team to get inside his head.

Just be mindful of what can
go wrong if F acebook is misused,
and for the love of all things holy,
walk away from the computer and
start on your organic chemistry.

 

ase jean? .

  

map’ £22

zltajaz‘ (",'r*r:*ri'iI (.Il:;:rds ,e‘ItT’C(?gt?{€?(f

    

Timber Ridge A‘1.:tt_.:1 Cen_te'r*
Mil? Valley i3’él<e
i.,r:::«;‘ingi'mi.' VA 2445{}

-(540) 464-~1€1’é9?

  

Foreign and Do‘me;:stir: Rt2.‘pE;il3‘§3
Oil change and Labs, A,»’{?, Coirirsriter i,}i21:,?g;I3t;9S¥;iEz:f2"+.
Minor and "Major iiriginszt Rep-aria‘. Brakes,
Fuel l’njection Service, 'l‘rz:narnissin‘r'z Servirze,
Coolant E?i.us.h. M inor and lvfzrior "i”'um:: --~-ups.
We can pr’ovid-c fa.ctory authorize-d il’“1i1l§'ll€I‘a5.il:s:::‘
withomi 'voiding your nranu§”a.<:.t:2_aiee‘s w21rz’r«:z1ty.,

  

 

Services:

Sanrilay §1:t)0 am & 7:042) pm.
Wedxicsday ?:{}0 pm

llfrirectiorzsz
Rt E3 North {a.bout 5 miles from tctwnl
 on Rt (345 (at gift shop’)
Straight up.lii1.i on laee-I-ii Acres

‘Phone:
»4F63»-5456i

Pastor:
(3. Hunter Phillips

“Jesus Christ is the same ‘yesterday and today, yes and forever.”
Heb. 13:8

 

editorial     

A nineteen-  
man DUI  

checkpoint  

How many police oﬁicers does it take
to run a checkpoint that issues only
one DUI arrest on a Friday night?

It took 19 police oﬂicers — twelve from the Lexington Po-
lice Department and seven from State Police — to man a sobriety
checkpoint on the East Lexington bridge two weeks ago. Nine-
teen.

And those 19 ofﬁcers made exactly one arrest for driving un-
der the inﬂuence.

Is that really the best use of these ofﬁcers’ time?

That means only three of Lexington’s 15 police ofﬁcers weren’t
on the East Lex bridge. '

Stopping drunk drivingis certainly an appropriate goal.

But Washington and Lee students have a right to be skeptical
of the police’s motives.

Scheduling a DUI checkpoint between Lexington and the ma-
jor student party hub ~ on the ﬁrst Friday of school, no less — cer-
tainly seems to send a message.

It is no secret that those neighbors, even
after students patched up relations with
county residents last year, wouldn ’t mind
seeing less partying at the Pole Houses and

Windfall Hill.

If that message is “don’t drink and drive,” ﬁne.

But it may also be a way to deter students from trying to party
in the country. _

Last year’s squabbles between Windfall students and their
neighbors are certainly familiar to every returning student. It’s no
secret that those neighbors, even after students patched up rela-
tions with county residents last year, wouldn’t mind seeing less
partying at the Pole Houses and Windfall Hill.

True, the DUI checkpoint was organized by Lexington offi-
cers, not the Rockbridge County Sheriff ’s Department.

But if students don’t think they have a way to get to houses
in the country, they’ll return to their old party areas in the city.
And parties in the city are bound to disturb as many ~ if not more
— people than the annual country bashes each fall.

W&L’s policies on parties in the fraternity houses have led
many organizations to take their social scene off campus. Sure,
their will be plenty of band parties in frat basements this year,
especially as the weather gets colder.

But students are increasingly unwilling to go through the has-
sles and hoops required by both the school and the city.

It’s simply easier to head for the country. Fewer rules, fewer
permits and fewer cops who drop by the parties.

And since the Lexington Police department initially refused
to issue sound permits to fraternities during the ﬁrst weekend of
the year, people felt like heading to the country was their only
choice. «

Lt. Bucky Miller told our reporters that DUI checkpoints will
continue throughout the year. And that’s ﬁne. ' ' I

It’s no secret that far too many college students — and Ameri-
cans in general — get behind the wheel after drinking.

But if each checkpoint is set up directly between town and
student party houses, W&L students will wonder if they’re being
singled out unfairly.

And if it takes 19 ofﬁcers to make one DUI arrest and write
a handful of traffic tickets, are state grants and taxpayer dollars
being well spent?

That question will have to be answered with time.

(om! "7 Or‘ga221'c_‘}7boa' ‘I)awrzto' vz

 

FRESH PRODUCE - Rrrm. FRUIT DRINKS - Hl£AIfl‘l~lY SNACKS

CARRY OUT OR EAT IN AT
Tm: Coumea Cuuruna CAFE
r**"*‘-— W.

 

jfreshly 7-’repared cﬂ/leals ‘Daz'l_y~
‘Healthy, fires}; ES’ ‘.De1z'cz'ou.\‘
Cafe 11 am - 2 pm MON. - FRI.
MON.—FRI. 9 am - 6 pm; SAT. 9 am - 5 pm

463.6954

1 10 West Washington Street

Downtown Lexington, across from VV 8L1.

 

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 5

 

opinions

. ———-———-———- WASIHNGIDNANDIEEUNNERSHY ~——-----—-——
THE RING -TUM PHI.
MANAGING EDITOR JACOB GEIGER
NEWS EDITOR JESSICA SHAW
ASST. NEWS EDITOR GRACE WANG
OPINIONS EDITOR STACEY GRIJALVA
ARTS&I.lFE EDITOR SACHA RAAB
SPORTS EDITOR MICHAEL KEENAN
‘COPY EDITOR CATHERINE CARLOCK
ASST. COPY EDITORS WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN
. KATHY SCOTT

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS CRIGHTON ALLEN
GRACE ANDREWS
DANE BOSTON

KEVIN CORN

BRETT IIOLTON

JOEL POELIIUIS
AMOR NEILL THUPARI

QUEENIE WONG

DESIGN EDITOR
DESIGNERS

LARA JORDAN

AMY DAWSON
THOMAS JENKINS
VICTORIA TAYLOR
LENORA NUNNLEY
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

. STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board. which
can be reached at mediaboarcl@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI

. welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450

Test everything possible

Freshmen have the best opportunity to make changes; tradition not always best

By Dane Boston
GUEST COLUMNIST

I hope the freshmen will not
begrudge a rather sentimental sc-
nior a few words of advice  they
begin illustrious careers at Wash-
ington and Lee.

The University Crest, an amal-
gamation of heraldic elements
found in the Lee and Washington
crests, seems to me to he particu-
larly full of wisdom and guid-
ancc.

What struck me as l'contem-
plated this immediately recogniz-
able symbol of our school was the
open book in the upper left-hand
quadrant. “Omnia pro autom-
bate,” cnjoins the tiny text. “Test

everything,” a quotation from St. '

Paul’s first letter to the Thessalo-
nians.

I humbly submit that we have
the key to living out the school
motto printed beneath that crest.

II’ we are to be mindlill of the
future, we must be prepared to
obey the words of that tiny book
and test everytliing.

I address these thoughts to
freshmen (although upperclass-
men are not exempt) because they
will have many opportunities in
the coming months to put this
very good advice to work. The
complete text ofthc verse alluded
to runs. “Test everything, hold
fast to that which is good.”

Though our traditions strength-
en and sustain us at W&L. too
many un fortunate elements of our
institutional life persist because
we are unwilling to test them. We
are too easily swayed by appeals
to obscure concepts of tradition

and “the unique character of the
University” in matters that, if this
place is to survive and thrive in
the years to come, must be ad-
dressed.

Test everything. Challenge the
social conventions that limit this
place in the eyes of prospective
students and peer institutions.

Test the Greek system, that
strange and mysterious creature of

soured by the stench of exploita-
tion called New Member Educa-
tion, cast them aside.

Strike out on a sometimes dif-
ﬁcult, often lonely, course to ﬁnd
ways in which this wonderful
place may be freed from the bur-
den of elitism, strengthened by a
true collegial spirit, and stimulat-
ed to become the breeding ground
of world-changing thoughts and

Challenge the social conventions that limit this

place in the eyes of prospective students and

peer imtitutions.

dubious value and equipped with
ponderous defenses. Freshmen
especially must avoid the trap of
thoughtlcssly falling into situa-

tions that compromise personal

values, all in the name of tradition
and assimilation. Test each house
you visit; pull each sordid detail
in the glaring light of day and
consider them next to the shining
virtues expounded by the 80 per-
cent of our student body who find
community in Greek life.

If you find that the scales tip
in favor of the house. join it and
strive with all your might to em-
body those virtues in your own
life and seek out creative ways
in which those guiding principles
can benefit the life of this aca-
demic community.

But if you find the old clubs
lacking; if you find their virtues
drowned in a sea of alcohol or ob-

 

lifc—changing friendships.

Test the majors and depart-
ments. Find something that you
love, and classes will never be a
burden. Seek out professors who
inspire and energize you. we
have many years of work ahead,
so why not spend these four in the
warm glow of a true liberal edu-
cation‘? Test the departments and
throw yourself with enthusiasm to
the one best equipped to develop
your mind. and soul, not your em-
ployablc skills.

Test the policies and practices
of the University. Argue about
the relative merits and demerits
of the imminent change from the
$100 million bequest. Talk to one
another about the distinguishing
characteristics of W&L and test
them too. If you ﬁnd them want-
ing, consider whether this new
scholarship program can restore

‘ CampusRe___c;

PROVIDES OUTSTANDING OPPORTUNITIES TO THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY FOR DEVELOPMENT OF
LIFELONG LEARNING SKILLS THAT BRIDGE CLASS ROOM THEORIES AND PRACTICE WITH EXPERIENTIAL
LEARNING.THIS IS ACCOMPLISHED THROUGH FUN AND INTERACTIVE OUTLETS IN A SAFE ENVIRONMENT
Q THAT PROMOTE A HEALTHY LIFESTYLE.THE CAMPUS REC DEPARTMENT ALSO OFFERS MEANINGFUL WORK

EXPERIENCES AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO

and revitalize them and involve
yourself in that essential process.

We must also, finally, test
ourselves. We must examine our
individual lives, each of which
contributes to the great whole of
the community.

What are the ways in which
we exploit, belittle, or dehuman-
izc? What are the ways in which
we empower, ennoble, and show
compa.ssion,? Test everything, ev-
ery thought and every action.

For ourselves, our friends,
classmates and colleagues, may
we “throw away the worser part”
of our souls and live into the no-
ble possibility of this school with
the other half.

Freshmen have as much a
right to contribute to the broader
conversation as the most well-
known seniors and the most pow-
erful alumni; in fact, what you
have to say matters more because
four splendid years lie before you
to realize those hopes and dreams
you have for W&L.

This place will change you.
There is much good in it, stores
of knowledge and virtue that are
vast and deep for you to enjoy.
There is also much. that we should
reject as unjust, corrupt, and un-
worthy to be associated with so
great a place.

Your job, and the responsibil-
ity of all former, current, and fu-
ture students, is to decide which
aspect of the University will leave

»a mark on your life, and to which

hoard you will contribute through
your life and actions.

Test everything. hold fast to
that which is good.

DEVELOP LEADERSHIP SKILLS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES AND
PARTICIPANTS.

GO TO STU DENTAFFAlRS.WLU.EDU/CAMPUSACTIVITIES/CAMPUS_RECREATION.HTM
I FOR THE LATEST INFORMATION ABOUT THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES

CLUB SPORTS
.   Glllllll’ FITNESS CLASSES

You  at s coat nor
 
C0k0‘R.Il?J§z‘&.T0i.  cameos £t.aciis.n'r1,o>ni
 CéQaMM@lil’ 2134

eon. II\iF0>R.M.A§.TEQ>N snow  ncrrvrrias, $Tt5€.R;TINﬁ in scours onus on O~Fl7:"ICIﬂitTll5iﬁ

 

0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

arts&life

Ca rbon Leaf wows crowd at VMI

Well—kn0wn rock band from Richmond gave a free concert at neighboring campus this pas Friday night

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

Well-know regional
band, Carbon Leaf,
excites a large crowd
at a concert held at
VMI this past Friday.
Vocalist Barry Prlvett,
guita sts Terry Clark
and Carter Gravatt, ,
bassist Jordan Me-
das, and drummer
Scott Milstead hit up
Lexington with a free
concert while on tour.
Carbon Leaf, originat-
ing in Richmond, has
a un'que sound that
has been described
as, “Celtic-influenced

  
 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007 THE RING-TUM PHI . 7

arts&life

Art show takes over Williams Gallery

 

Movie Schedule
Fall Term 2007
Monday showings at 7:00 pm
Tuesday & Thursday showings at 9:30 pm
Friday showings at 10:00 pm
Midnight Movies show Thursday — Saturday at 12:00 am

' September 6"’ — 8"’
Evening Movie: Spider-Man 3
Midnight Movie: Big Trouble in Little China

September 10"’ — 15"‘
Evening Movie: Knocked Up
Midnight Movie: Reno 911: Miami

September I 7"’ — 22"”
Evening Movie: Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End
Midnight Movie: Thank You for Smoking

September 20”’
*Family Movie at 5:00 pm: Surf’s Up

September 24"’ — 29"’
Evening Movie: Ocean’s 13
Midnight Movie: Xmen: The Last Stand

October 1" — 6"’ (Homecoming)
Evening Movie: Evan Almighty
Midnight Movie: Live Free or Die Hard

October 8"‘ — 13"‘ (Reading Days)
Evening Movie: Transformers

October 15"‘ — 20”‘
Evening Movie: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Midnight Movie: Dodgeball

October 22"” — 27"‘
Evening Movie: I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry
Midnight Movie: Little Miss Sunshine

October 29”’ — November 3”’
Evening Movie: Hairspray
Midnight Movie: Borat

November 5"’ — 10"’
Evening Movie: The Bourne Ultimatum
Midnight Movie: Kingdom of Heaven

November 12"‘ — I 7"’
Evening Movie: Superbad
Midnight Movie: The Omen

November 15"‘
*Family Movie at 5:00 pm: Ratatouille

November 26"’ - December 1“
Evening Movie: The Invasion
Midnight Movie: My Super Ex-Girlfriend

December 3”’ — 8"’
Evening Movie: Balls of Fury
Midnight Movie: Night at the Museum

December 6"‘
*Family Movie at 5:00 pm: Santa Clause 2

December 13"‘
*Family Movie at 5:00 pm: Miracle on 34”‘ Street

Evening movies sponsored by the Elrod Commons
Midnight movies sponsored by Student Activities
events.wIu.edu

LENORA NUNNLEY/ Staff Photographer

Sculpter shares passion in
Huntley Hall exhibit

By Carson Haddow Ken Smith is
STAFF WRITER the kind of sculp-
  tor who won’t take

no for an answer.
When he picks up his chisel he “goes to war” with
the stone. In doing so, he instigates another conﬂict
with most of the world of modern sculpture. Unlike
most contemporary sculptors, Dr. Smith chooses to
work in a style called “direct carving.” This means
that in the true tradition of Michelangelo, the good
doctor goes at his beloved blocks of raw stone with
only his hands, a chisel and a hammer (although
sometimes he uses a drill too.)

Dr. Smith is, however, not unused to working
with his hands. After the service of a “year that
seemed like ﬁve” in the Vietnam War, Smith went to
college. There he majored in biology and chemistry.
He eventually attended George Washington Univer-
sity Medical School to become a privately practicing
plastic surgeon. Both the resolve he learned from the
army discipline of Vietnam and the scientiﬁc back-
ground he acquired through his medical practice are
highlighted in his work.

Smith, whose new show opened Saturday in the
Williams Gallery, describes sculpture as “a compo-
sition of lights, darks, form and textures.” This tenet
adds to his unique idea that “art should seduce you to
touch.” Dr. Smith explains that touching stimulates
physiological impulses otherwise lost in the view-
ing experience. His dual philosophy is a reﬂection
of a measured, deeply scientiﬁc approach to sculp-
ture and art in general. For Dr. Smith every facet of
his work is crucial; every detail of light’s elaborate
dance on his surfaces must be calculated.

His surgical style does not, however, prevent the
depiction of romantic and at times sentimental sub-
jects. Smith himself cites “the disturbing” and “the
emotional” as among his major themes. Included in
his sources he lists the proto-expressionist master Van
Gogh and the enigmatic El Greco. There is certainly
an evident measure of emotion and intrigue in many
of his works. This is especially true of the bronze
works Deprivation and African Cruciﬁx. Some of
his most stimulating work includes his “body knot”
series represented in our show by Embrace After
Schatz and The Temple. Other subjects range from
poignant depictions of the African-American eman-
cipation to the trials of love and courtship.

Ken Smith’s captivating personality and scientif-
ic erudition give his work a unique ﬂare and signiﬁ-
cance. His obvious talent as a craftsman makes his
work pleasurable for anyone. His show is entitled
“A different path, a different view.” This title refers
to both his personal history and the distinctiveness
of his work. The exhibit at the Williams Gallery in
Huntley Hall will last until January 15 and is cer-
tainly not a show to miss.

some of sculpter Ken Smlth’s pleces draw
inspiration from Van Gogh and El Greco.

 

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

arts&|ife

 

  9/11 still felt At 99“,

Washington and Lee community remembers

ana’ mourns the anniversary of September 11

By Mlchele Farquharson
STAFF WRITER

This past Tuesday was the
sixth anniversary of the terrorist
attacks on the United States. At
noon a small ten minute service
of remembrance, presided over
by Burr Datz, was held in the
Robert E. Lee Chapel. To my
great surprise out of the seven-
teen hundred people that attend
Washington & Lee only seven-
teen attended this service. And
to my embarrassment, if I had not
been assigned to write this article
I would not have checked campus
notices to see if a service was be-
ing held. Some people saw the
service ‘advertised but couldn’t
attend because of class. Others
didn’t realize it was Sept. 11 until
they wrote the date on their pa-
pers.

When Burr Datz asked us to
bow our heads in silence to re-
member those who died in the at-
tacks I found myself thinking back
to that day and how even now I
can re-live almost every moment
as if it just happened. How, as my
friends and I entered our history
class, we saw the newsreel play-
ing on the television and thought
it was a movie, like Independence
Day or King Kong. Then the
ﬁrst tower fell and all the televi-
sions in my school were turned
off. They didn’t let us watch be-
cause students’ parents worked in
D.C., and in the Pentagon. But
we didn’t have to; we could hear

the airport!

the ﬁghter jets ﬂying to and from
Fort Meade, patrolling the air-
ways. My parents took me out of
school early and we sat in our liv-
ing room watching the events un-
fold. It wasn’t until I realized the
black specks falling off the side
of the second tower were not only
rubble, but people as well, that I
started crying and couldn’t stop.
Sept. 11 is the Pearl Harbor,
the assassination of Kennedy,
and fall of the Berlin Wall for our

moment when we stood united as
a nation to support the victims,
their families, and those who tried
to save them. It was the week
following the attacks when our
nation came together to grieve
and the world mourned with us.
France put it well, “Nous soyons
Américaines,” we are all Ameri-
cans. The unity I found when in-
terviewing members of our com-
munity was their remembrance.
They all remembered where

Sept. 11 is the Pearl Harbor, the assassi-
nation of Kennedy, and fall of the Berlin
Wall for our generation.

 

generation. The ramiﬁcations of
Sept. II have been massive, and
will continue to inﬂuence our
nation and our world. This is
where I was tempted. Tempted
to write about politics and the
national and global ramiﬁcations.
I asked teachers and students of
their opinions on the steps taken
after 9/ I1 and the war on terror.
I read through the responses and
agonized over how I could write
this article. Then I realized why
it didn’t'feel right to talk about
the division of our nation over
the war on terror. It’s not what
this day is for.

One of America’s greatest mo-
ments came out of Sept. 11. The

The Roanoke Airport Transportation Services offers a
24 hour service by reservation and maintains a physical
presence at the airport 18 hours a day.

Along with our reasonable rates, our professional
drivers and our ﬂeet of white Lincoln stretch limousines,
Lincoln Town Cars, and 15—passenger vans are impressive
on all occasions - WEDDINGS, PROMS, CONCERTS,
BIRTHDAYS, GRADUATIONS, NIGHT OF CELEBRATION,
POLICTICAL FUNCTIONS, SIGHTSEEING TOURS, etc.
Whatever the occasion, we can help you impress your
friends, family, or clients while creating "memories for a
lifetime’’. Arrive at your event in style; you don't need to tell
anyone how little it cost!

Our”Executive Sedan Service” is a great asset for
businesses. Do you want to impress a client and make that
sale? Do you want the folks ﬂying in from the corporate
ofﬁce to feel important? Take advantage of our low rates
for Lincoln Town Cars or even a stretch limousine without
depleting your budget.

For those airline passengers or commuters, why pay
parking fees at the airport and risk ﬁnding your car battery
has gone dead upon your return from a trip or vacation
or worst have your vehicle damaged while you are gone
and having report it to your insurance company? Take
advantage of our low fares and professional service when
ﬂying out of or into the Roanoke Regional Airport. Let us
load your luggage and drive you right to the front door of

they were, and how they found
out about the attacks. And I trust
that all of you, whichever way
you realized it was Sept. 11, took
at least a brief moment of silence
to remember the 2,993 people
that died in those attacks. Next
year, I urge the W&L community
to come together in remembrance
of not only those who’ve died,
but also the soldiers that have
gone into Afghanistan and Iraq
to ﬁght against those who support
terrorist activity. Ten minutes
of remembrance and of pride in
our nation for how we supported
each other in our time of greatest
need.

   
   
    

They Won't
Peak The Bank.

They Won't Even Break A liooty,
little Plastic coin Purse.

    

 

lllunnats

 
 
 

Your choice, ‘Just 39‘ Each.
531 E. Nelson Street, Lexington

Plck-up wlnllow onon 'tII mldnlght

ﬁe what tastes right“:

at 2005 olaemarx LLC wenoy‘s name. tleslgrl and logo. and Do What tastes RIKM ave nadernams at omemanz LLC and licensed to wermrs Imunohonal. Inc

  
   

A B&B at Llewellyn Lodge

603 S. Main Street

Lexington, Va 24450
The Favorite Lodging Place of W&L
Parents & Visitors
For Over 23 Years
Featuring the Best Breakfast and Most
Comfortable Beds In Town
I Close to Campus

www.l|odge.com
540-463-3235
Toll Free- 1-800-882-1145
John & Ellen Roberts, Innkeepers

Outstanding Guided Flyﬁshing Trips For
Trout
Daily Updates www.vatrout.com

  ROANOKE AIRPORT TRANSPORTATIONSERVICES

”Whatever the occasion, we can help make it special for you!”

Student Rates: For students of area universities and colleges
needing transportation, we provide a 10% discount on rates to
help with your budgets. The rate to W&L University is $73.00 or
$36.50 if a car is shared by two students.

Shuttles to W & L University: Special shuttle service can
be provided, upon reservation, to students at William and Lee
University. If three to nine students wish to share a ride to the
Roanoke Regional Airport, they can reserve a van at a cost of
only $30.00 per person.

Corporate Rates: For corporations, companies, public
and private organizations, and nursing homes with frequent
transportation needs, we can offer discount rates depending
upon your needs. Contact us to develop your discount rate!

Wedding/Anniversary Packages: With our ﬂeet of white
limousines, town cars, 15-passenger and wheelchair accessible
vans, we can help make your wedding or anniversary more
special at a very reasonable cost. Discounts vary depending on
the number and types of vehicles needed and other factors.
Contact us to develop a special package for your wedding!

GUARANTEED LOWEST RATES in Roanoke!

If you can provide written proof that our competitors’ prices
are lower than ours, we guarantee to match or beat their price.

  

C 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 9

2

 

sports

0 Notre Dame and Michigan still matter?

Nation is oldest rivalry still brings out fans despite teams ’ 0-2 starts

By hmor Nelll Thuparl
STAFF wmrzn

 rare event occurred this past
Saturday in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Actilally, the word rare may be a
bit of an understatement consid-
ering that this was the ﬁrst time
in the history of college football
that: both the University of Notre
Dame and Michigan University
entered their annual matchup with
an 0-2 record. Needless to say,
two‘ of the most storied programs
in college football, in one of the
greatest rivalries the sport has to
offer, took the ﬁeld Saturday in
the most unfamiliar of positions.

As the story goes, on a chilly
November afternoon in the fall of
1887, Michigan students traveled
to South Bend and proceeded to
teadi Notre Dame students the
garrie of football, thus beginning
their illustrious rivalry. Over
time, the Notre Dame-Michigan
game developed into one of the
most heated contests in college
football, with the bad blood be-
tween the players, coaches, and
schools growing incessantly with

each meeting. In fact, due to the
intense nature of the rivalry com-
bined with the brewing hatred
amongst the schools, the series
ceased its annual meeting for
over three decades on two sepa-
rate occasions. Once for 32 years,
returning in 1942 only to see the
game disappear again, this time

, for a 35 year hiatus, returning in

1978 for what is now an annual
ﬁxture on both teams’ schedules.
Subsequently, since the rivalry
renewed in 1978, the Michigan-
Notre Dame game has become
one of the premier events on the
college football calendar. Com-
bine this already fantastic history
with the fact that Michigan has
the all-time winningest program
in college football history, and
that Notre Dame remains a close
second in that regard, and one
could have a legitimate case for
stating that this rivalry supercedes
all others in college football.

In years past, the Notre Dame-
Michigan game has played a

large role in whether or not one ,

team moves on to a major bowl

game or even a shot at a national
championship. This year, how-
ever, there was no undefeated
season on the line or any national
championship hopes resting on
this game. Instead, it was a clash
of two titans ﬁghting for the pride
of their schools, and the satisfac-
tion of getting their ﬁrst win of
the season over a bitter rival.
While watching the pre-game
festivities on Saturday, I couldn’t
help but get goose bumps at the
prospect of seeing an instant
classic between Notre Dame and
Michigan in front of a packed
crowd of over 111,000 at Michi-
gan Stadium. The passion and ﬁre
with which each team emerged
with as they lined up for the start
of the game certainly didn’t give
off the impression that both teams
were 0-2. Unfortunately for Fight-
ing Irish fans, from the ﬁrst snap
it didn’t appear that any Irish eyes
were smiling down on this team
in Ann Arbor. The presence and
purpose with which Michigan
came out with truly set the tone
for their complete destruction of

the Irish. Before Notre Dame’s
freshman quarterback, Jimmy
Clausen, could get into any kind
of rhythm whatsoever, the Irish
found themselves losing turnover
after turnover to a swarming,
bruising Wolverine defense, led
by junior linebacker John Thomp-

This year, however,
there was no undefeat-
ed season on the line
or any national cham-
pionship hopes resting

on this game.

son. On the other side of the ball,
senior running back Mike Hart,
who earlier last week guaranteed
victory over Notre Dame, did ev-
erything he possibly could to keep
that promise by rushing for 187
yards and two touchdowns. Hart’s

performance allowed freshman
quarterback Ryan Mallet to settle
down in the pocket and ﬁnd his
groove, which led to three pass-
ing touchdowns for Michigan.
From start to ﬁnish, Michigan
simply seemed more prepared,"
more motivated, and more driven
to winning this football game, and
they did so in a most convincing
fashion.

A short while after the clock
wound down to double-zero and
all the fans had cleared out of
Michigan Stadium, I couldn’t
help but wonder if we had just
lay witness to one of the low-
est points in the rivalry between
Michigan and Notre Dame. Truth
be told, it was as if it was 1887
all over again and the Wolverines
had to teach the Irish the game of
football. 38 to 0 is no easy loss to
take, or even look at for that mat-
ter. For the third straight time this
season, Notre Dame had failed
to put up positive rushing num-
bers, let alone score an offensive
touchdown. The school whose
name is associated with some of

the greatest, most celebrated mo-
ments in college football is now
ranked ll0"‘ or worse in seven
major offensive categories. Their
0-3 record is synonymous with
that of schools such as Temple,
Northern Illinois, and Florida
Intemational. The words, “Play
Like a Champion Today,” seem
to be more wishful thinking than
anything else, and with the possi-
bility of a 0-8 start to their season
exceedingly imminent, one has to
wonder if Notre Dame lost more
than just a game on Saturday.

Head Coach Charlie Weis
said after the game that his Notre
Dame squad will return home and
start their season over as if it were
ﬁrst day of training camp. On the
brink of the worst start in the his-
tory of Notre Dame football, the
much ballyhooed leader of the
Fighting Irish hopes to salvage
what’s left of the season by start-
ing it anew next week against
Michigan State, and, for the sake
of Notre Dame fans across the
country, maybe that’s not such a
bad idea after all.

A pair of Randolphs fall to women on the pitch

Women ’s soccer team defeats both Randolph and Randolph-Macon in same week

By Henry Nathan Af— just before halftime, junior forward Erica
5 TA F F W R IT E R ter los- Giordano weaved through the defense and
ing the lobbed the ball just past the outstretched

opening game of the season to ‘then No.
10 Denison University, the Washington &
Lee Women’s soccer team, now ranked 17
scéres (in the Division III Week

” ‘ Two Poll), has bounced
W&L 4 back with three consecutive
Rando|ph- wwins, defeating Sewanee-
the University of the
South, Randolph College,
and Randolph-Macon College. This past
week, the Generals commenced play in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference by
defeating Randolph at home on Watt ﬁeld
and Randolph-Macon on the road. Thus,
the team is off to an auspicious beginning
in conference play.

From the outset of the game against
Randolph on Wednesday, W&L started
fast; junior midﬁelder Katie Corr and
sophomore midﬁelder Roz Klann netted
goals in the ﬁrst 13 minutes. “Anne [Van
Devender] broke away from the pack
towards the goal with a defender on her
inside. She outran her defender, but still
didn’t have a very good angle to shoot, so
I sprinted to the top of the 12 on the oppo-
site side, shouting for the ball, and Anne
passed it on the ground so I could run onto

Macon 1

. it,” said Corr of the ﬁrst goal.

Subsequently, forward Anne Van Dev-

_ ender put in two goals of her ovm. Finally,

arms of the Randolph goalie, Victoria
Jackson, and into the right side of the net.
While the score was 5-0 at halftime, it
could have been a wider margin if it were
not for some tremendous saves by the

. Wildcats’ goalie, who collected 14 saves

in the ﬁrst half and 20 overall.

In the second half, the Generals con-
tinued their attack, scoring two goals in
the span of 13 minutes; one by Klann and

remarked after the game on the team’s
strategy, “[T]he midﬁeld and forwards
held onto the ball and attacked for most of
the game. We played three in the back to-
day and the defenders were still able to get
forward and help in the attack.” As a re-
sult, the majority of the game was played
on Randolph’s side of the ﬁeld.
Ultimately, the team was well balanced
in the 9-0 victory. Van Devender stated of
the team’s success, “Tuesday’s practice
was strong and that just continued into
Wednesday’s game. We were trying some

“It will undoubtedly be a challenge to better what we ac-
complished last year with an Elite 8 appearance, but we

have a group of players that are very ‘determined and com-

mitted to doing everything they can to make that possible. ’

Nell Cunningham, coach

one by senior captain and forward Mar-
tha Caulker. In the waning moments of
the game, at 88:06, Giordano scored her
second goal. One minute later, freshman
forward Karen Lambdin capped off the af-
ternoon by sending in a goal off of a pass
from Caulkins.

While the offense was exceptional, the
defense was equally effective, stiﬂing the
Randolph offense and not allowing even a
single shot. Senior captain Haley Bunting,

new things and I think the game gave us a
chance to really try them out.”

On Saturday, the Generals traveled
to Randolph-Macon for the second con-
ference game. Over the past ﬁve years,
Washington & Lee is 5-0 against the Yel-
low Jackets. However, this was a close af-
fair for much of the game. Neither team
scored in the ﬁrst half, though W&L
amassed 14 shots and ﬁve comer kicks.
While the Generals were able to control

the ball well on the opponents’ side of the
ﬁeld, they could not capitalize.

No team scored until 58:00 into the
game. Washington & Lee cracked the
scoreboard ﬁrst off of a Van Devender
goal that was unassisted. Randolph-Ma-
con responded with a goal of its own eight
minutes later by Brittany Jones; this knot-
ted the game at 1-1.

Strong teamwork by the Generals pre-
vented momentum from swinging back to
the Yellow Jackets and junior midﬁelder
Katie Kern headed in a goal off of a cross
from Van Devender. From then on, W&L’s
suffocating defense took over and pushed
the ball forward. Seniors Mary Clair Tum-
er and Diana Dozier slammed the door
shut with goals near the end of the game.
The ﬁnal score was 4-1.

Next up, the Generals head out of con-
ference for one game before beginning a
stretch of four critical conference games
over the next two weeks.

Coach Neil Cunningham said of this
year’s team, “It will undoubtedly be a
challenge to better what we accomplished
last year with an Elite Eight appearance,
but we have a group of players that are
very determined and committed to doing
everything they can to make that possible.
The chemistry is excellent and I have a
good feeling about this group; we may
surprise some people.”

The ﬂntique Mall

750 N. Lee Hwy

aécxt To Tractor“ Sup‘piy
In the Heart of Lexingmn, Va :2éMS{'}

(540) 464-5555
Selling ur1iq'uefumitur*e and
aeeessoriasfor the.‘
Dorm -- .Apartment - House

Monday - Saturday
10:00 am. - 6:00 pm.

Sunday
 11:00 am. ——- 6:00 para.

A Great PZa;c-e- to Entertain Parents!!!

Ti“:.ere"s Sorri.et'h.ing fbr Etreryoneifi

  
 
 

Wrenchworks

229 McLaughlin Street
Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-7048 
Open Monday—Friday 8:30 ajrn—5=:"O0’lpm

Call ‘'5 igg}/’ for jjpexpertlaluto
omestic vehicles

ll foreign a

    

  
    

Ive repairs

ak oil cha nge special
Only $25

Siegmund ”Siggy” Podlejski
ASE Certified Master Technician

Serving the Rockbridge area for 25 years

with honest and loyal service.

Korte’s goals lead
Generals to w'ctory

continued from back page

“In overtime, every player must
play every position on the ﬁeld,”
said Merchant. “Possession of the
ball is key, and a turnover could
result in a goal quickly. Also, we
must capitalize more on penalty
comers because the odds of scor-
ing are much higher than in regular
play.”

In overtime, the Generals again
proved to be the dominant team,
rarely allowing the ball to leave
their offensive half. Just over seven
minutes into the overtime period,
Merchant found Korte off of a pen-
alty comer for her second goal of
the game, ﬁnishing the General’s
3-2 victory.

“The win was really important
for us as a team, because it is our
ﬁrst win on our own turf ﬁeld, and
last year we didn’t play to our po-
tential against McDaniel,” said
Armstrong. “we just tried to con-
tinue to work on the basics we em-
phasized during the week such as
marking and really shooting hard at
the goalie.”

The Generals return to action
when they travel to play Villa Julie
on September 22 at 2:00 p.m.

Men running well
despite lower place

continued from back page

“Each of our runners who had
run the course before bested their
previous times by forty seconds to
one minute,” echoed Berry when
asked about the team’s perfor-
mance. “I can’t downplay what an
improvement this is.”

The men received some competi-
tion from Lynchburg College while
in New York. Lynchburg ﬁnished 9”‘
overall, ahead of W&L. After beat-
ing Lynchburg last week, tthe men
will hae to continue to work hard
in order to capture another ODAC
title, as Lynchburg was, on average,
one second faster this week.

“The only bitter point of this '

weekend was being bested by
ODAC rival Lynchburg, who
topped us by a narrow point mar-
gin,” said Berry.

“We had a good day, they had
a great one, and they got the bet-
ter of us. When the chips are down
at ODACs seven weeks from now,
I’m conﬁdent that we will be that
much ﬁtter — well prepared to de-
fend our title.”

The women will participate in
the William & Mary Invitational on
September 29"‘. This will be their
ﬁrst look at the regional champion-
ship course.

The men will continue their sea-
son on September 28”‘ at the Lehigh
Paul Short Invitational and on Sep-
tember 29th at the Virginia Military
Institute Invitational.

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2007

sports

 

   

10

- THE RING-TUM PHI

deck

 

 

 

MoN Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT Sun
vs.
Football “’°'°“ @
Salem
7'00J.m
at at
new Villa Julie ’°'“‘5
Hockey 2:00 pm_ Hopkins
1:00 pm.
at vs.
Man,’ Lynchbmi Gullford
Soccer 7:00 p_m_ 3:00 p.m.
vs
at
, ‘'5' Va. Wes
Women s Holllns sch”. 11 00
Soccer :
4:00 p.m.
time am.
at Sweet at
yonoybaﬂ Bflaf Emory University
5:30 P-m- invitational
Women’:
XC

Men’: xc

Women's at '

1'.nn|; ITA Southest Regionals

 

 

numbers
1085

Number of total offensive yards recorded by the Cleveland Browns and

Cincinnati Bengals in their game on Sept. 16. The Browns won 51-45.

-14

The total number of rushing yards amassed by Notre Dame in the first

three games of its season, all losses.

28

Front nine score for Tiger Woods in the second round of the PGA Tour
Championship at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta, GA. Woods birdied six

holes in a row on the front nine en route to a 63 for the day.

$500,000

Fine levied on New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick by NFL Com-
missioner Roger Goodell for spying on opposing teams during games.
The ﬁne is the largest fine ever assigned to an NFL coach. Belichick
and the Patriots will also lose either a ﬁrst or second round draft pick

in next summer’s NFL draft.

box

“No, no, we’re not going to be in a hurry. I'm going

 

to stay here and take it.”

charlie Wels, Notre Dame’s footfall coach, responding to a Notre Dame
sports Information official trying to end the press conference after
Notre Dame’s 38-0 loss at Michigan, courtesty of espn.com

"I've stayed in contact with the police, and the
truth will come out.” 1

OJ. Simpson before he was arrested on charges of armed robbery at
a hotel in Las Vegas, courtesy of cnn.com.

“This episode represents a calculated and de-
liberate attempt to avoid long-standing rules de-
signed to encourage fair play and promote honest
competition on the playing ﬁeld.”

NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell In a letter to the Patriots concerning
their use of vidoe cameras to spy on opposing teams.

By Michel Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

In 2005, the only home
defeat suffered by the Wash-
ington and Lee

5°°re5 ﬁeld hockey
W&L 3 team came at

the hands of the
McDaniel2

McDaniel Green
Terror. Last year,
the Generals suffered a 1-0 loss
to them in a game several play-
ers felt they could have one.
This year, they made sure the

With just over ﬁve minutes
to play in the half, sophomore
Sallie Armstong’s shot from the
top of the shooting circle was
denied by another save from
Wawzyanick. However, less
than a minute later, Armstong
dribbled several defenders,
lined up a shot fromjust inside
the penalty arc, and found the
back of the net for the game’s
ﬁrst goal.

McDaniel pressed hard for
the next three minutes control-
ling play and keeping the ball

J

minutes. ’

result would be different, dom-
inating most of the game and
ﬁnally converting on a penalty
comer in overtime to seal a 3-2
victory.

The game was back and
forth early on. After about ﬁf-
teen minutes, Generals began
to control play but could not
seem to ﬁnd the back ofthe net.
With just under twenty minutes
left in the half, senior Kendal
Korte just missed connecting
with junior Christina Merchant
on a pass through the middle
in front of the net. Less than a
minute later, senior Kay Dyt’s
shot was denied by a kick save
from McDaniel goalie junior
Erika Wawzyanick.

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

The men’s and women’s
cross country teams continued
to take great strides with meets
this past Saturday. The men
traveled to New York for the
NYU Invitational where they
ﬁnished 10'‘ out 23 teams. At
the same time, the women were
right up the road at J MU for the
James Madison Invite. There,
they ﬁnished third out of eight
teams.

While at JMU, the Gener-
als were led by sophomore Kat
Telfeyan who ﬁnished 24* in
a time of 21:15. Sophomore
Dorothy Todd took 30”‘ with a
time of 21:50, closely behind
freshman Chirstine Balistreri
who ﬁnished in a time of2l:36
to ﬁnish 28*.

“I thought the team did
very well,” said Telfeyan. “We
have been working on running
together, and I think it has im-
proved our performance as a
team. The JMU course and

“We dominated the entire game, and we
couldn ’t let them slide out a win because

we let our guard down for a couple of

Junior Christina Merchant, Forward

deep in its offensive half but
could not muster a shot on goal,
leaving the Generals’ 1-0 lead
intact at half.

About ﬁve minutes into
the second half, the Generals
thought they had extended their
lead to 2-0, but the goal was
waived off. The Generals kept
McDaniel pinned deep in their
own half for much of the next
ﬁfteen minutes until the Gen-
erals were awarded a penalty
shot off a penalty comer. Korte
found the back of the net to give
the Generals a 2-0 advantage.

McDaniel wasn’t ﬁnished.
Less than a minute and a half
after Korte’s goal, Jamie Smith
responded with an unassisted

meet competitors were chal-
lenging, which helped make for
a great race.”

Meanwhile, in New York,
the men were led by junior
Michael Welsh who, after win-
ning his ﬁrst collegiate race last
weekend, was able to ﬁnish l8“‘

“Running a cross
country meet in the
Bronx is a unique

experience. ”

- Junior Vance Berry
 

out of 238 runners with a time
of 27.04. Fellow junior Vance
Berry took 44"‘ with a time of
28:02.

“Running a cross country
meet in the Bronx is a unique
experience,” said Berry. “With
apartment towers crowded
overhead, the course at Van

MICHAAEL KEENAN  SPORTS EDITOR
Senior Kendal Korte finds the back of the net with a ~
penalty stroke to give the Generals a 2-0 lead.

F H dominates

  
 
   
   
 
  

Sophomore Sallie Armstrong splits two McDaniel
defenders on her way to the game’s first goal.

goal of her own. Seven minutes
later, sophomore Amanda Pick-
ard found the back of the net
for the Green Terror to tie the
game at two.

“The team knew that we had
to come back from giving up
the lead,” said Merchant. “We
dominated the entire game, and
we couldn’t let them slide out
a win because we let our guard
down for a couple of minutes.
We had that happen to us last
weekend with Centre, and we
needed to prove to ourselves
that we could persevere and
win.”

XC competes at invitationals

Women take third at JMU invite, men place tenth running at Van Cortlandt

Cortland Park is the antith-
esis of the usual cross country
race.”

Senior Tom Brower com-
pleted the course in 28:25 to
place 615‘. Freshman John
Stusek and sophomore Ben
Stutts were separated by a mere
six hundredths of a second,
with Stusek ﬁnishing in 28:52.1
and Stutts following at 28:52.7.
Their times were good enough
for 89th and 90th place overall.
Junior Anthony Ives completed
the course in 29:10.1 and fresh-
man Michael Shiplet followed
ﬁfteen seconds behind to round
out the top seven for the Gener-
als.

“There’s a synergy about
this group that you don’t often
see,” said Berry. “They’re ab-
solutely committed to racing
hard and training their best.
When the racing gets tight, I
don’t doubt that they’ll make
the moves necessary to get
those last points. These guys
have guts.”

“This was my ﬁrst time

 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
   
    
  
  
  
     
   
   
   
    
    
     
  
    
  
     
     
  
    
   
    
    
  
   
     
    
  
    

AEL KEENAN / SPORTS EDITOR

Though the Generals pressed
hard in the ﬁnal eight minutes
of regulation, they were unable
to regain the lead. The Generals
created some potent opportuni-
ties, winning six penalty cor-
ners in the ﬁnal seven minutes.
With under a minute to play,
senior Elizabeth Garson’s shot
was just left of the goal which.
effectively ended regulation.

With fewer players on the
ﬁeld for the sudden-death over-
time, the team strategy chang-
es.

See “Korte’s two goals” on page 9

racing in about a year due to.
a stress fracture last fall, so
my racing ﬁtness was pretty
unknown,” said Brower, com-
menting on his race. “My legs
felt pretty beat up from a tough
week of training, but I ran pret-

ty well considering the circum-
stances.”

He went on to discuss how
well the men ran, but also how
packed the competition ﬁeld
was.

“The team ran signiﬁcantly
better than last year; however,
because the ﬁeld was signiﬁ-.
cantly more competitive than in
previous years,” said Brower.
“Our top three runners each ran
anywhere from 35 to 60 sec-
onds faster than last year and
all placed lower this year. The
guys ran very intelligently on
a very challenging course. We
had a very tough week of train-
ing and were not resting what-
soever for NYU, so we’re very
pleased with the results.”

   
 
   
  

See “Men Running” on page 9

 
 
 
 
 

O

  

