 

 

Y“ '-‘.-tl ‘V H 
vvvrv" ' - A 1 

Sleeping on the lawn

Wondering why there were tents scattered in front of the commons and
Williams School? Sophomore Elliott O'Brien was camping out to raise
awareness for Hunger and Homelessness Week.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

  THE RING-'rUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2007

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

Faculty
1n favor

Ruscio is controversial
proposal approved by

a majority of faculty

By Andy Rubln and Grace Wang
ASSISTANT COPY EDITOR AND ASSISTANT
NEWS EDITOR

After weeks of intense debate, Wash-
ington and Lee faculty ultimately support-
ed President Ken Ruscio’s new academic
plan by a wide margin. The proposal will
take effect during the 2009-2010 academic
yean

The largest and most controversial
change introduced by Ruscio reduces the
Spring Term from six to four weeks and
requires students to take one intensive aca-
demic course. This downsizes the current

. Spring Term, which requires two academic
courses. Because students will no longer
have to split their time between multiple
courses, Ruscio believes the new Spring
Term will promote deeper academic ex-
ploration and immersion, goals that were
initially sought after at the term’s incep-
tion.

Faculty response to Ruscio’s plan has
been largely positive as evidenced by the
plan’s passing last week. -

1}  Dr. Daniel Kramer of the German De-
7 partment believes the new plan will further
strengthen foreign language departments
in a meaningful way.

He pointed to innovative, immersion-

 

  
 

“T he main challenge will
be to ﬁnd a meaningful and
. important course of study
that can be accomplished in
only four weeks. Many col-
leges went down the road
that we are headed back in
the 1970s only to abandon
the effort after a few years. ”

. Rlchard Bldlack, Associate Professor
of History

 

like courses on campus as well as a new
four-week study abroad experience, simi-
lar to Washington and New York Terms, as
areas of growth.

Kramer added, “We also think it may
lead to good discussions about introduc-
ing minors and International Studies at
W&L.”

The plan also includes a measure to
reduce faculty teaching load. Professors
will now teach 5.5 courses per year, which
means ﬁve one year and six the next. This
change will make W&L more comparable
to other top liberal arts colleges, most of
which require faculty teaching loads of 4.5
or ﬁve courses a year.

Finally, Ruscio’s plan reduces the num-
ber of credits students will need to gradu-
ate. Currently, students need 115 credits.
In 2009, this number will be six credits
less, or 109 total credits.

Although the new Spring Term will
shrink in duration, already-established
six-week study abroad programs such as

. Washington and New York Terms have
been widely endorsed by both faculty and
students.

Dr. Richard Bidlack of the History De-
partment said he looks forward to the op-
portunity to work intensively with a small
group of students during a four-week
term.

He said, “Creative options for faculty
will increase signiﬁcantly with students
taking only one class. The only schedules

See “New plan” on page 2

 

By Allison Chopin
STAFF WRITER

College women across the country will be affected by an increase in
the cost of prescription contraceptives that they can obtain from their

' campus health centers starting this year.

Schools rely on discounts from companies in order to provide inex-
pensive birth control to their students. The Deﬁcit Reduction Act was
passed in 2005 and went into effect last January. This federal law affects
Medicaid discounts for drug companies and makes it difﬁcult for these
companies to offer low rates to colleges.

At Washington and Lee the increase in cost has caused the health
center to stop carrying some brands of contraceptives.

“The health center stopped getting [NuvaRing] and couldn’t sell
them for $5 anymore. Now I have to get a prescription from the health
center and go to the drug store to get NuvaRing,” one female student
said. She now pays between $50 and $60 each month.

Rates‘ that were about $5 per month last year have now risen to any-
where from $12 to $50 per month on some campuses. At the University
of Iowa, students are paying $53 per month for Ortho Tri-Cyclen-Lo, a
brand name birth control pill. This adds up to $636 spent in one year on
contraceptives.

Dr. Jane T. Horton, the director of Student Health and Counseling
at W&L, explained that two types of birth control pills are currently
offered at the health center. Solia, the generic name for Desogen, costs
$12 per month. Ortho Tri-Cyclen L0 is $5, but supplies of this brand
will soon run out, and that price will rise. The health center does not yet
know what the new cost will be.

To obtain prescription birth control from the health center, students

See “Rising Prices" on page 2

Number of students using birth control

39-40% of undergraduate college women in America

Number of visits for contraceptives at W&L

0 2004-05 : 1,037 (visits) and 247 pap tests
2005-06 : 1,043 and 216 pap tests
2006-07 : 892 and I 77 pap tests

current cost (per month) of Ortho Tri-Cyclen
Lo (brand name birth control) at various
coﬂeges

University of Pittsburgh: $42
University of South Florida: $40
University of Arizona: $43.20
University of Iowa: $53

Duke: $46

W&L: currently $5 but will go up

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

ARTS 8: LIFE / page 6 ‘

VOLUME CXI, NUMBER 8

  

UNNERSFTY LIBRARY

 

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

  

O

2

 

0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

HEW

NOV 132007

 

MONDAY,

NOVEMBER 12, 2007

Rising prices ma

ke pill harder to obtam

Horton and health center work to help students get birth control at affordable prices

contlnued from page 1

must make an appointment with
one of the doctors. They will un-
dergo a women’s health exam and
pap test if needed.

“We will discuss contracep-
tive options and dispense one of
the ones we have here at the stu-
dent health center if appropriate,”
Horton explained.

Students can also receive a
prescription from the health cen-
ter and take it to a pharmacy if
the particular contraceptive is not
carried by W&L.

“In the past, we were able to
offer [Ortho Try-Cyclen Lo and
Desogen] and the NuvaRing for

New plan

will start
in 2009

continued from page 1

that faculty will have to work

around, and this is an important
exception, are those of varsity
athletes.” '

Although response to the ap-
proved plan has been largely
positive, as evidenced by the
plan’s largely unanimous pass-
ing last week, faculty predict
there may be signiﬁcant kinks to
work out.

Bidlack said, “The main
challenge will be to ﬁnd a mean-
ingful and important course of
study that can be accomplished
in only four weeks. Many col-
leges went down the road that
we are headed back in the 1970s
only to abandon the effort after
a few years. But I hope that we
are determined enough and suf-
ﬁciently thoughtful to succeed
where others have failed.”

Dr. John Wielgus of the Biol-
ogy Department believes similar
difﬁculties may arise in the sci-
ences.

He said, “Some disciplines
— molecular biology, biochemis-
try, neuroscience, and engineer-
ing, for example — are already
hard-pressed to teach the mini-
mum foundational information
as is. Some traditional courses
predictably will be lost in the
new schedule and so will the op-
portunity to teach courses funda-
mental to\the major in the spring
term.”

Moreover, Wielgus worries
about Ruscio’s plan to reduce
the number of courses required
for graduation.

He said, “The biology major,
for example, requires eight cog-
nate courses in math, chemistry
and physics in addition to at least
34 credits in biology courses.
None of these courses can be
dropped without jeopardizing
our graduates’ ability to remain
competitive and gain entrance
into top post-graduate programs,
and ﬁtting them in over fours
years is difﬁcult as is along with
FDR requirements.”

Overall, however, Wielgus is
optimistic.

He said, “Despite these chal-
lenges, which must be addressed
successfully, the new curricular
plan will, as President Ruscio
noted, help re-establish W&L as
a premier liberal arts institution
— one that graduates whole peo-
ple, who are capable of viewing
world problems holistically and
eager to contribute to the human
enterprise.”

 

$5 per month, but the Federal
Deﬁcit Reduction Act of 2005
ended our discount contracts
about a year ago,” said Horton.

The health center no longer
offers NuvaRing because of the
increased cost. The doctors will
also soon be carrying more gener-
ic pills rather than brand names.

Since the increase in cost for
oral contraceptives at W&L has
not been extreme, Horton said
that most students have not been
severely affected.

“Students seem to have been
able to cope with the increase
from $5 to $12 per cycle-—they
just may not get as many cycles
at a time,” she said. “We can

sometimes get free sample packs
of pills that we can give a student
who really can’t afford the other
options.”

If students wish to use insur-
ance, they can get a prescription
from the health center and ﬁll it
at a pharmacy instead of purchas-
ing it at W&L. Another option is
to send a receipt to the insurance
company for reimbursement.

The price at a drug store will
vary, but at CVS Pharmacy, Ortho
Tri-Cyclen L0 is $53.99 for a one-
month pack without insurance.

“We can usually ﬁnd a contra-
ception option that students can
afford,” Horton said.

According to Time Magazine,

@2007 US. Cellular Corporation.

even though the law went into
effect in January, many campus
clinics did not feel the effect of
rising costs until the spring or fall
because they are now running out
of their supplies from last year.

Obtaining health insurance to
cover the new costs is an option,
but health care experts claim that
many women choose to pay for
their prescriptions on their own
because they cannot afford insur-
ance or do not want to involve
their parents.

Thirty-nine percent of fe-
male undergraduates used birth
control pills in 2006, according
to the American College Health
Association (ACHA). Others use

 

U.S. Cellular is wireless
where you matter most?“

A  US. Cellular

getusc.com 1-888~BUY-USCC

U.S. Cellularf introduces the
MOTOROKR”-—a phone and
MP3 player in one simple, stytish
plug~and-play form. It comes with
everything you need to get started
right out of the box, along with a
30-Day FREE Napster To Go trial.
Which makes it, literally, music

to your ears.

the patch, the shot, or NuvaRing,
which are also affected by rising
costs.

At W&L in 2005-2006, there
were 1,043 visits to the health
center to seek birth control, and in
2006-2007, there were 892. One
reason for the decrease is that the
doctors have begun to provide re-
ﬁll prescriptions through e-mail
rather than in person.

Some students are concerned
for their fellow college students
who may be putting themselves in
danger if they choose not to use
birth control because of the cost.

“[High costs] will only make
young women more vulnerable
and more likely to ﬁnd themselves

in bad situations of which they
are no longer in control and may
ultimately dramatically alter. the
lives of those involved, including
the innocent child which may be
produced,” freshman Kristin Ad-
ams said.

If students are still concemeﬁ
about the cost of birth contro ,
Horton offered a suggestion. 

“There is currently a Con-
gressional House Resolution
under consideration that would
restore. . .discount pricing on con-
traceptives. I would like to‘en-
courage students to contact their
representative and encourage
them to support this resolution,”
Horton said. i—

 
 

  
 
     
   
   
     
    
 
   
 

MOTOROKR” 26m

1

U

 

 

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2007. "

THE RING—TUM PHI '3

 

opinions  

=¥iHook-ups not gentlemanly acts

:ffEveryone does it, but maintain your dignity by avoiding dance floor makeouts

7 3y Joan ogunﬂmejn are crossed is the subject of gos-
.;,—coLuMNIsT Sip-

The hook-up culture pervades

..  Hook-ups. the student body. Though not ev-

‘, This 5011001 i3 iT1fam011S f0Y eryone is directly involved in it,

“these socially ambiguous actions.

_  Almost everyone engages in them
._‘,;.and almost everyone has a differ-
: [lent deﬁnition.

After nights of hard partying

ligand hard drinking, hookups are
 ,;,almost always inevitable.

As alcohol ﬂows through your

i-ilisystem and begins to cloud your

' judgment, you start to feel tipsy.

Soon you not only start to

lwblackout the memories of your

-'3?-irﬂiight but also your personal
1:;/boundaries. The boundaries are
fcrossed, but when and where they

  

we all play a role, whether as by-
standers or as gossipers.

I will be the ﬁrst to admit that
I enjoy having talks to discuss the
latest news in W&L’s “The Young
and the Reckless.” Seriously, this
school is small and whether we
like it or not, we are all heavily
involved in each other’s lives.

Though I am not trying to raise
moral questions about hookups in
and of themselves, I am criticiz-
ing the hypocrisy that comes the
morning after.

After the‘deed has been done

and the people involved have
washed away their doubts of the
night, they meet with their friends
to discuss the misdeeds of others.

They conveniently forget what
they themselves have done behind
closed doors. It’s almost as if you
didn’t do anything at all if you did
it behind closed doors. I applaud
you for the sensibility to conduct
your private business discreetly
but this does not change the fact
that you have probably engaged
in unbecoming acts.

You are not a saint.

Now, it’s perfectly understand-
able why DFMs or DFBs would
be the paramount topic of discus-
sion the day after a wild Chi Psi
late night. I mean, they occur in

public, in plain sight of everyone.
So I am not, in any way, applaud-
ing or condoning public hookups.

Even under the inﬂuence,
they are completely inexcusable.
They are grossly inappropriate
and quite embarrassing, for both
the lustful participants and the
lurking viewers.

Though everyone is entitled to
having a grand, wild time, espe-

cially after a long, arduous week,

of academics and athletics, there
is a point where you must draw
the line. Not everyone wants to be
invited to your personal party.

Remember, this campus is"

small! The heart of the matter is
that we are all different.
We know that some of us oper-

Looking past Quiana’s skin color

‘f§§}4pplaud minorities not for their heritage but for real achievements

:::;,: By Celeste Cruz-carandang
:3_:C0LUMNlST

There has been a storm of

'3 controversy surrounding Quiana

McKenzie’s election as home-
coming queen. Rather than the
university reacting with a simple
and well-deserved congratula-
tions, McKenzie’s coronation
has warranted the questioning
.of diversity on Washington and
Lee’s campus.

Furthermore, the administra-
tion’s and student body’s actions
towards the increasing amount
of multicultural students has
been placed under unnecessary
and unjustiﬁed scrutiny. This
unfair criticism regarding diver-
sity leads me to conclude that
our progress as a community has
been overestimated.

Any article meant to congrat-
ulate Quiana referred to her as
W&L’s ﬁrst black homecoming
queen. By adding “ﬁrst black,”
Quiana is separated from the rest
of the past homecoming queens
and is onbut a different, not a

stems from a tendency to over-
complicate the problem. Our
community’s goal is to be ac-
cepting of all races and cultures.

But this acceptance cannot be
misconstrued with the acknowl-
edgement of different view-
points. It must go further than the
so-called assimilation of multi-
cultural students and address a
revolutionized attitude towards
those of diverse backgrounds.
This new state of mind deﬁnes a
person by, as Martin Luther King
Jr. said, by the content of their
character rather than the color of
their skin.

Unfortunately, Quiana has
been placed in the middle of a
politically correct tornado. I ﬁnd
that despite her numerous ac-
complishments, she only serves
as the faceless poster-child of
W&L’s progress towards diversi-
ty. It is quite abhorrent that a dis-
putation occurs because the only
identiﬁable feature of this poster-
child is the color of her skin.

I admit that I am also a multi-
cultural student. Up until the de-

aging attitude towards students
such as myself.

I am compelled to conclude
that W&L has not progressed
as far as previously thought. We
still cannot get past race and see
the actual person.

This pedantry has manifested
itself in a different way. Rather
than condemning the multicul-
tural student body, W&L con-
gratulates us. But these congrat-
ulations are not for our grades
or accolades or for our sense of
integrity and honor.

Rather, we are congratulated
because we are black, we are
Asian, we are Hispanic, or we
are different. While we are ex-
tremely proud of our heritage,
we do not want do be identiﬁed
by the deeds of our ancestors.

Quiana is homecoming
queen. Yet, with the addition of
one word, “black” or perhaps
even two, “African-American,”
Quiana gets lost and is buried
under the rubble of political-cor-
rectness and a slow progression
towards true diversity. «

This article is not meant as a
simple commentary or rant to-

wards the state of mind on this
campus. Instead, this is supposed
to act as a catalyst for a change in
this mindset. Do not congratulate
us because we were born a differ-
ent color than most. Commend
us because we excel in academ-
ics and athletics, but praise un-
der the same circumstances you
would applaud a white student.

I contend that diversity does
not simply encompass cultural
differences, but must also rec-
ognize the diversity of thought.
The expansion of this deﬁnition

"inspires students to see them-

selves not as multicultural or as
white, but simply see themselves
as students, united under one stu-
dent body.

I concede that we all come
from different backgrounds,
some more similar than others.
But diversity and acceptance is
not rooted in the celebration of
similarities. It comes from a cel-
ebration of differences.

So I want to say what has not
been officially said: Congratula-
tions, Quiana. You exemplify and
you are the title of homecoming
queen.

ate under a different value system
than most but we should build on
the fact that we are a community.
We should support rather than
condemn our fellow students. If
someone is doing something in-
appropriate, let them know, or
at least let one of your mutual
friends know. The person might
simply not know any better.

So while we gossip and giggle
about the bad life decisions of
others, let’s not feel morally su-
perior to our peers.

Don’t feel any better because
under intensely intoxicated cir-
cumstances you might have done
the same thing. But we’ve never
stop to ask ourselves if we did the
right thing.

For a school with so many
honorable traditions, it seems our
honor doesn’t translate to parties
on the weekends.

Sure we don’t lie, cheat or
steal but what else constitutes
honor? Our school was founded
on Robert E. Lee’s principle that
we have but one rule; to act as a
gentleman or a lady. Does making
out on the dance ﬂoor constitute
acting as a gentleman or a lady?
Or how about hooking up with
someone you just met?

Our honor should not only ap-
ply to academics, it should tran-
scend all aspects of our lives.

Maintain your dignity.

Maintain your honor.

Respect yourself.

3' .
saw, a 2 
l’1i1"IAL CAR Olsen & TIN 'i“mr CAFE

Order from our complete menu
Or 395:: rwjkzr one tgfozr1'.«4Ll. Y(}UC1~1NE.4TBuj}fets!

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, 8. Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday 8. Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar iClpm~2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week Sam-1 tam
Daily Hot Country Bar iiarn-‘iﬁpm
{Deity Soup, Saied, 8. Fruit Bar item-“ltlpm

{Jrder Breakfzist 24 Piours a day, 7 days a weeki

Harrie Cooked zieieais & Srmtheri: Hospitrrfity.’
l...ocate:l at

LEE HI mm PINE

Hi}  I-64. i3L..\;§i I95, 25l6-?"~i(}t'il'i i..c.'.e E-iwyw l.exingl.on_, VA

540-463-3478

Sweat food :3: :1 great caliectian of
‘ Antique Pedal Cars :3: Tin Toysi

 

.~l ,f t" h h d - . . .

.s:‘1:er oomgt an er pre 6065 velopment of this s1tuation,Ihad
Perhaps this dispute Simply yet to ﬁnd evidence of a dam-
........................................................... .. WASHWGTQNANDLEEUNWERSITY 

THE RING—TUM PHI.
MANAGING EDITOR JACOB GEIGER
NEWS EDITOR JESSICA SHAW
ASST. NEWS EDITOR GRACE WANG
OPINIONS EDITOR STACEY GRIJALVA
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR SACHA RAAB
SPORTS EDITOR MICHAEL KEENAN
. COPY EDITOR CATHERINE CARLOCK

ASST. COPY EDITORS WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN
KATHIE SCOTT
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS CODY BEAUCHAMP
ALLISON CHOPIN
KEVIN CORN
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG
BRIAN DEVINE
JOAN OGUNTIMEIN
JESS STEINMETZ
CHRIS TUTOR
DESIGN EDITOR LARA JORDAN
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.
ADMINISTRATIVE ASST.

LENORA NUNNLEY
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE
JULIANNE MIATA

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM’
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

editorial

Endless Spring Possibilities

Ruscio gets it right with his quick action on Spring Term,
but don ’t change policies to aﬂect students ’social lives

After a fall of discussion and debate, Pres-
ident Ken Ruscio and the faculty made the
right decision on Spring Term.

By an overwhelming majority the faculty
approved a new four week term, where stu-
dents will take one intensive class.

The plan covers more than Spring Term,
of course.

Ruscio says this proposal will help W&L
lead a discussion about liberal arts education
in America.

We know some students are disappointed
that they’ll lose two weeks of tubing, Goshen
trips and volleyball in the frat front yard.

Still, four weeks of Spring Term are better
than no Spring Term.

But Ruscio was right when he insisted that
the current Spring Term could not survive.

We simply don’t have enough professors
to make students take two classes.

And there is no indication that a signiﬁ-
cant students are willing to go abroad each
spring.

That’s why Ruscio’s plan is the best com-
promise.

It protects Spring Term for posterity and
makes the term an economic reality.

And if faculty really do design new class-
es rather than just condensing an old sylla-
bus, then Spring Term may be better than it
is now.

The possibilities are literally endless.

Art History classes that take ﬁeld trips to
Washington, D.C. and New York.

Civil War classes that travel across Vir-
ginia and up to Gettysburg or down to Vicks-
burg.

Not only is the new plan a great way to

protect Spring Term down the road, we also
like the way Ruscio handled the debate over
this new proposal.

Other discussions have dragged on for a
year or even 18 months.

This year the faculty voted less than two
months after the initial proposal.

Sure, the faculty may have wanted more
time to study the plan and consider its long-
term implications, but we needed direction
and change immediately, not a year down the

needs to ﬁx.

The requirement that students take two
classes this spring needs to be dropped.

Why was this measure introduced?

Because faculty felt that we weren’t get-
ting enough of an academic challenge.

Oh, and because they think we party too
much all spring.

Memo to the faculty: keeping us oﬂ‘ the
river on Tuesday afternoons is not a good
reason to tweak academic requirements.

If faculty really do design new classes rather than just con-

densing an old syllabus, then Spring Term may be better than

it is now. The possibilities are literally endless. Art History
classes that take ﬁeld trips to Washington, D. C. and New

York. Civil War classes that travel across Virginia and up to

Gettysburg or down to Vicksburg.

road.

Shortening the period for discussion may
also have helped keep the debate civil, some-
thing that hasn’t always occurred in past
Spring Term discussions.

Now the faculty on both sides of the de-
bate need to come together, put aside their
disagreements, and prepare for this plan so it
can hit the ground running in April 2010.

There’s still one more thing the faculty

You focus on academic life; let us and the
Dean of Students worry about everything
else.

In any case, Ruscio has won a major vic-
tory with this plan.

Students should be excited that future
generations will get to enjoy the same Spring
Term experience we have.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI -4

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2007

pinions

 

editor

IM football
obliterated

Rule changes hard to enforce,
fail to beneﬁt anyone, and
ruin the integrity of the game

 

Editor:

I am 5-feet, 7-inches tall and weigh 135 pounds. If
anyone stands to beneﬁt from the new rules governing
IM ﬂag football, it’s me. Under the new rules prohibit-
ing contact, I do not run the risk of broken bones or
other bodily harm from contact with another competi-
tor. Under the new rules, I should be perfectly happy
with my IM experience.

Yeah. Right.

What are these new rules designed to do? As far as
my team and I can tell, the purpose of these new rules
is to eliminate the integrity of the game.

What we are playing on the turf ﬁeld can hardly
be called football. If we wanted to run around on the
turf ﬁeld without touching anyone or hitting anyone,

All I hear are excuses

Website sells fake notes for $25 to avoid work or classes

By Jess Steinmetz
CO LU M NIST

I remember classmates having the most ri-
diculous excuses in school for not doing their
homework. “My dog ate it” was one that al-
ways came up from one not-so-bashful third
grader.

, As I entered high school, I met people who
came up with more creative excuses and actu-
ally used their parents to sign their fake excuse
notes. They would claim their child had been
sick the night before, the intemet was down so
they could not ﬁnish the research for the gov-
ernment term paper, or their cable was broken
so they could not watch Spanish television or
the news.

Others would go even beyond making ex-
cuses and straight out lie by verifying that their
child had completed the required number of
service hours that they knew their teenager was
just too lazy to complete. I never understood
that.

Why would a parent sign a note that lied to
the teacher of his or her child? I was due for
a real shock when I heard about www.myex-
cusedabsence.com. Can you imagine making
money by giving people excuses to get off
work? Darl Waterhouse and John Liddell do

exactly that. Their website charges custom-
ers $25 for excuse notes to get outof work or
class.

“Dr. Sicknote” sells templates with fake
notes intended to fool professors or employers.
Customers simply type in their name and any
applicable personalized information such as

Dr. Sicknote sells templates
with fake notes tofoolprofes—
sors or employers. After press-
ing print, they receive what

looks like a genuine document.
 

the doctor’s name and business address. After
pressing print, they receive what looks like a
genuine document.

The excuses sold include a visit to the doc-
tor or dentist, emergency room, jury duty, and
funeral service. They will even sell a funeral
service program with names of pallbearers and
poems to honor the dead. Seriously, how sick
can you be? It is bad enough someone would
pay to lie to their boss, but why in the world

would you make up a death and show fake evi-
dence to ‘prove it’?

The website actually features a picture of
someone skiing with the following quote as
background text: “Yea, grandma’s death came
as such a shock to the whole family, and we all
really appreciate you’re being so understand-
ing.” Is this really what the world is coming
to?

The website of course claims it is for enter-
tainment use only. If this is true, why would it
sell a funeral service program? How depraved
would someone have to be to pay $25 to receive
a funeral service program as a joke? I think that
person would have to be about as depraved as
someone who would actually use it to get time
off work.

Additionally, one of the founders stated in
an interview that “if employers would treat
people the way they need to be treated, people
wouldn’t be using these notes.” If this was all
an elaborate joke, why would the founder say
this in an interview?

Naturally, the owners refused to reveal the
amount of money that their sick enterprise
earns but stated that each month the website
has approximately 15,000 hits. Hopefully, the
vast majority of these are from people like me
who cannot believe such a business would even

 

we would do that, and call it — I don’t even know what
we’d call it — running around on the turf ﬁeld like fools,
maybe. It’s the newest sensation that’s sweeping the
nation!

Perhaps there’s some other purpose that we don’t
know about. Apparently the winners of the league get
to go to Maryland over Thanksgiving Break and play
in the regional ﬂag football championships. Apparent-
ly, they play this emasculated version of “football” at
these “championships.”

If I had a choice between going to Maryland to
play “football” for Thanksgiving and going home for
Thanksgiving and being with my family, I believe I’d
choose my family. In fact, I’d choose my family over
real football.

What’s worse, the officials can’t enforce these
rules. They’re trying their best, but there is such irrita-
tion about the rules amongst the teams that whenever
anyone is touched on the ﬁeld and no flag is forthcom-
ing, a whining starts up the likes of which haven’t been
heard since the Israelites traversed the Sinai.

It honestly sounds like a couple of 8-year-olds in
the back of a car.

“DAAAD! He touched me!”

“Yeah, well, she touched me ﬁrst!”

“Yeah, well, he looked at me funny!”

And the poor person who has to be the adult in this
situation, the ofﬁcial, has no recourse but to ﬁnally
shout the equivalent of “If I have to stop this car, God
help you both!” They don’t get paid enough to stand out
in the cold and put up with our crap, crap that wouldn’t
be forthcoming had it not been for the ridiculousness
of these rules.

Nevertheless, we whine at the officials. Why? Frus-
tration in football is meant to be taken out by hitting
someone on the ﬁeld. Frustration will come out, and
since it won’t come out on the line of scrimmage, it
comes out of competitors’ mouths toward the unde-
serving ofﬁcials.

The IM ofﬁce fails to understand that it is subject to
the free market. IM ﬂag football is a product that caters
to two markets. The ﬁrst market is people looking to
play football. The second market is people looking to
make an extra buck by ofﬁciating.

The ﬁrst market is surely irritated with the prod-
uct, and I have heard the “news on the street” that the
groups that participate in ﬂag football will set up their
own alternative product next year, if the rules package
is not reversed.

The second market is being infected with the irrita-
Lion of the ﬁrst market. lfl were an oilicrui, and l l.;~.d
to deal with the whining teams, I wouldn’t do it beyond

 first night. Suddenly, IM ﬂag for‘-tbill is without
players and without ofﬁcials.

When the IM ofﬁce decided to stick its hand in the
machinery, we ended up with a product 1000 times
worse than before.

I challenge the IM ofﬁce to give me a good reason
why the rules were changed. Getting the opportunity
to go to Maryland over Thanksgiving Break does not
count. If the IM office cannot produce that reason, then
it would be wise of it to reverse the rules package for
next season. Otherwise, IM ﬂag football is dead at
W&L.

In Miller High Life beer commercials, a delivery-
man for Miller High Life enters establishments that he
feels are disrespecting the common man by charging
eight dollars for a can of tuna or, my personal favorite,
eleven-ﬁfty for a hamburger. Because of this affront
to society, he removes all the Miller High Life from
the establishment and says something to the effect of
“l1.50 for a hamburger! You must be crazy! You just
lost your right to sell the High Life.” It varies from
commercial to commercial.

Football without contact? You must be crazy! If the
IM ofﬁce doesn’t at least offer a good explanation (and
even that might not be good enough), then I’m afraid
that they just lost their right to run the football league.

Sincerely,

Sam Gilleran, 2011

Rudy’s ‘problem

Do not compromise on abortion beliefs‘

By Chris Tutor
STAFF WRITER

“Gutsy.” “Nuanced.” “Cen-
trist.” Such is Rudy Giuliani’s
position on abortion proclaimed
by many pundits. “America’s
Mayor” has repeatedly claimed
that he personally opposes abor-
tion, but (and it is a big “but”) he
also opposes the imposition of his
values on other Americans.

During the ﬁrst GOP debate at
the Ronald Reagan Public Library
on May 3, Giuliani stated, “I hate
abortion; I would council against
it. But as a matter of conscience, I
would have to support a woman’s
right to choose.” Weeks later,
during the party’s June 5 debate
in Manchester, New Hampshire,
Giuliani declared, “My view on
abortion is that it’s wrong but that
ultimately, government should
not be enforcing that decision on
a woman.”

Obviously, slavery violates an
individual’s right to liberty, one
explicitly enshrined in the Dec-
laration. However, before the
Civil War, many Southerners
maintained that it was not the
place of abolitionists to impose
their values on other Americans.
They maintained that individu-
als should be allowed to choose
whether or not they owned slaves.
Today, such a defense would be
considered unconscionable. But
isn’t that essentially equivalent to
the position offered by Giuliani?
If one believes that abortion
violates an individual’s right
to life, he or she should defend
that right even if others disagree.
Surely, lack of consensus does
not nullify the right or preclude
the defense of it. Again, this is
not a question of the imposition
of moral values. It is a question
of the protection of unalienable

Southerners before the Civil War maintained

that individuals should be allowed to choose

whether or not they owned slaves. Today, such

a defense would be considered unconscionable.
 

Although lauded by many,
Giuliani’s position is, simply put,
illogical. This is not intended to
question his intelligence or char-
aeter, only the validity of his po-
sition. First, Giuliani states that
he hates abortion and that it is
wrong. Simultarirw-sly. he ""-
gues that the government cannot
defend the right to life because
of a woman’s right to choose. It
is one thing to believe that a fe-
tus is not an individual and. thus,
does not possess the right to life
“endowed by [the] Creator.” That
is a completely respectable posi-
tion and entails no contradiction.
But Giuliani, in his own words
and their obvious implications,
believes otherwise. Therein lies
the problem.

This inconsistency is derived
from Giuliani’s mistake of con-
fusing the imposition of values
with the protection of rights. Val-
ues (i.e. morals) lack consensus.
However, the belief in unalien-
able rights and the equality of
men enjoys almost complete con-
sensus. Most, if not all, Ameri-
cans subscribe to such a belief.
Indeed, it is the most fundamen-
tal unit of our social contract.
Surely, Giuliani believes that the
government is obligated to pro-
tect those rights. Therefore, how
can the right to choose supersede
the right to life? It is illogical.

Let us construct an analogy.

rights. In fact, the Declaration
states emphatically, “That to se-
cure these rights, Governments
are instituted among Men.” In-
deed, it is bold for Giuliani to dis-
agree with the anti-abortion base
of the Republican Party. It would
be bolder for him to stand by his
convictions concerning abortion.

Senator Charles Sumner, the
audacious abolitionist from Mas-
sachusetts once noted of the slav-
ery issue, “This will not admit of
compromise. To be wrong on this
is to be wholly wrong. We must
defend freedom unreservedly and
careless of the consequences.”
Sumner chose to ﬁght for the un-
alienable rights of slaves, whether
it was an imposition on the values
of the South or not. He believed
that a slave’s right to liberty su-
perseded a slaveholder’s right
to choose. His position was not
popular. It was not nuanced. It
was certainly not centrist.

Thus, it might be popular to
ignore the right to life in defer-
ence to the right to choose. Giu-
liani has received much positive
press on his position. But legiti-
macy is not conferred by popular-
ity, and boldness is not a replace-
ment for reason. Giuliani should
reconcile his currently conﬂicting
beliefs. Now that would be gutsy.
It would also be right.

Oil Exchange & Lube

754 North Lee Hwy.
Across from Tractor Supply
540-463-5020
Save $1.00 — Show W&L ID

T'Em_ber "Ridge _..d_L_u.tu Center
Eff: E  ‘v’a3Ee}=“ itike
.l.e;x;iiigton, '\.==’;’\ Z4450
:54o}4as-iaa7

 

r3f§E C 9 ~ £3 .H¥‘J%{3l.r‘%f’s°':8

E-7ar'eig_‘ii and E}a:niiest'ie Repai.r°s
ffliil £)i”ti§[§§_=_~‘.‘,t3 anti. .l;.tzhs;:?.. A.-"=t'f.7_, {.‘oitigiLttr;;.-r’ l;'}=izi;.¢;iir>stér:-s.
’§\z£in.o‘r" and lv§ia§ti.i‘  girie E?.epaiii, lE3:'a.i-aes,
Fae? it’-§j%;3t‘2‘§§t§.3l"i Service, "ll!F€lI'§$1T}l&t?§(}'tVt. Serv-ice,
C£.“rIL}.iE1:3‘“£l. §*7§t1sli, l‘vlitia;?t' amt ?\2i:.-ijm‘ 'Ti.ri‘:i;-*». v----ups.

 

We can giwvirive §"actor3«' auilioriézetl 7tl:‘3.2ll31l’€IE-Eiitsziti
WEtEt.0Ltt veitziirzg }"‘i3L%.§’ rii2*:t:t2faetu.z‘e’s t-s.~‘ar:‘;-“stage.

 

Freshmen,
Sophomores,
Juniors:

The Summer Experience
Thursday, November 29"‘
7-8 pm
Commons Theater

For information about
_ internships,
research opportunities,
and summer employment.

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

 

 

MONDAY, NOTEMBER 12, 2007

THE RlNG~TUM PHI ' 5

 

arts&|ife

 

a smallerverszon ofFancy Dress with a slightly  

erbualget --ago way to get students pumped  

‘ I

for2007Mock Convention in Jammy

COURT

 

; This past Friday, students flocked to Evans Dining Hall for a mini Fancy Dress-style Gala celebrating this year's Mock convention. Considering this event only occurs
Q : once every four years, there was considerable hype for the dance. Because of maximum occupany mandated by Evans, only 1,000 tickets went on sale. As a result, stu-
I dents rushed to get in line as soon as tickets went on sale in the Commons this past Wednesday. For $35.00, they received a ticket, a Mock Convention tumbler, a W&L
shaker and a chocolate bar. Students still have more to look forward to with speakers, float construction, and, of course, the actual Convention itself in January.

TOA D S PLACE
Where The Legends Play

rmnn EYE BLIND @j\

     

 TONIT:

with Matt White... .11I12

 BraverylIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11!16
*StrayIight Run *conshafler wl Sludge from y101

, Streetlight Manifesto.........................11/18
. *Suburban Legends *The Stitch Up

The Hold Steady with Art Brut.................11/19
*1990s

Regina Spektor.................................11I20
*0nIy Son

Hot Topic Presents: Avenged Sevenfold. .  . . ....11I21
*operator *The confession *Blaek Tide

 Y101Snowbal|.................................11/29

*Paramore *Silversun Pickups *Anny of ME

Little Brother.....................................12/5
*Evidence *D. Folks & The Movement

cAKE’s Unlimited Sunshine Festival........12l9
*Detroit Cobras *0akley Hall *King city *Agent Ribbons

Boyzll 

0 Toad’s Place New Year’s Eve Party with

carbon Leaf
*speeial guests: Me And Her

Wu-Tang clan...................................1I18

 

www.ToadsPlaceRVA.com

804-648-TOAD (8623)

140Virginia St. I Richmond, VA I 23219

 

 

Redford disappoints

Lions for Lambs both title and impression of new ﬁlm

By Cody Beauchamp
STAFF WRITER

Robert Redford usually makes
good ﬁlms.

Sure, Redford ﬁlms are typi-
cally on the subdued side — you
won’t get action-packed thrill-
ers or over the top performances
with Sundance behind the lens.

For that matter, many of his
movies are just the opposite of
loud. The Horse Whisperer or A
River Runs Through It are practi-
cally case studies in great movies
that require very little dialogue.

Maybe that’s why Lions for
Lambs, Redford’s latest, might
seem a little out of its element-
it’s a “talky” ﬁlm. No, seriously,
the whole thing feels like a lec-
ture.

The movie essentially follows
three different plot lines, occur-
ring more or less concurrently
across the globe.

At an unnamed California
university, Redford’s college pro-
fessor is attempting to motivate a
talented and bright but lazy stu-
dent. Professor Redford’s mo-
tivation stems from the fact that
he had earlier inspired two other
talented students (Derek Luke &
Michael Peﬁa) into enlisting in
the US Army to do some good in
Afghanistan.

Enter the second plot line
— Peﬁa and Luke’s soldiers fall
out of their under-ﬁre helicopter
and are stranded in the Afghani
mountains. The Taliban are clos-
ing in quickly. Things aren’t too
chipper.

Meanwhile, back in D.C.,
Senator Jasper Irving (Tom
Cruise, of all people) is trying to
sell reporter Janine Roth (Meryl
Streep) on a new military strate-
gy for Afghanistan. Irving, inci-
dentally, is a Republican favorite
to run for the Presidency.

Given the three stqry lines,

the movie starts with deﬁnite zeal
and interesting scenes. The three

plots have great potential of inter- I

twining and informing each other
in breathtaking, thrilling twists.

But, after about 30 minutes,
the audience realizes that’s prob-
ably not going to happen. Strap
yourself in folks, you’ve got a lot
of talking to listen to.

It’s not that Redford, Streep,
Cruise, Peﬁa and Luke don’t try—
valiantly. Streep ﬂexes every Os-
car-winning muscle she can think
of to infuse her reporter character
with more than one dimension.
Alas, even she falls short, leaving
us with the image of Meryl Streep
sitting, scribbling on a note-pad

factthat he spends most of the
ﬁlm simply talking. A college
professor is expected to lecture,
so his performance ﬁts. But be-
cause it is just a lecture, it’s not
what most would call compel-
ling.

That, more than anything, is
the ﬁlm’s ﬂaw—~nothing hap-
pens. Allthe technical elements
that support the script and perfor-
mances are ﬁne. It is the script
that is the problem. It’s just so
damn. . .talky.

Filming an ofﬁce-hours debate
in the C-school on Bush’s foreign
policy would have just about as
much plot momentum. There
would be compelling ideas, sure,

“That, more than anything, is the ﬁlm sﬂaw—
nothing happens...Fz'lming an oﬁice—hours de-
bate in the C-school on Bush 3 foreign policy
would have just about as much plot momen-

J)

tum.

Cody Beauchamp, Staff Writer

and clucking at Cruise—a pretty
bland reporter.

Cruise also looks trapped in
ﬁrst gear. Jasper Irving, as the
earnest politician who believes
he’s doing the right thing (and
probably isn’t), could have been
one of the great characters of this
year, ‘a case study of what it’s
like to be a Bush, a Cheney, or a
Rumsfeld. Instead, the audience
gets a performance from Cruise
that he apparently wasn’t fully
committed to. He pretends to be
the Bushian Republican, but he
won’t let you forget that he’s only
pretending. He doesn’t want to
completely give in to the role.

Redford, however, acts well
and creates the most multi-di-
mensional character in the ﬁlm.
Yet, his acting can’t change the

but not compelling ﬁlmmaking.

It’s a shame.

The ﬁlm’s title comes from
a quote attributed to a German
soldier during World War I. The
soldier was praising the courage
of his British Army opponents,
saying that their courage, valor
and bravery only made their of-
ﬁcers’ disastrous waste of their
lives more horrible. It was lions
being led by lambs.

In many ways, Redford aptly
named his ﬁlm—for all potential
and promise the ﬁlm’s concept
presented, its script criminally
wasted it.

Redford’s directorial skill, a
cast chocked to the rafters with
talent, poignant timing—it’s all
cinematic lions for lambs.

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY,

NOVEMBER 12, 2007

arts&life

 

  

 

   

O
I
MICHAEL KEENAN/ Sports Editor .
Tents outside of the Wllllams School and the commons show students’ awareness and concern for the hunger and homelessness problem that plagues the nation.
Week of razsm g awareness brmgs everythm g from lectures to tent czly on campus
By Celeste cmbcarandang lelntist, Rebecca Blafnk, will give tigioufs poslitions fit the hUniver- how the current hforms of mea- Dependence on this line pre— measurement of poverty.
STAFF wn HER er interpretation 0 these stories sity o Mic igan, om w ich she surement fail to s ow the gravity vents Americans from seeing the Blank contends that the United
in a lecture entitled “Improving is on leave this year. She is the and immensity of the problem. extent of the problem, Blank ar— States’ view of poverty is depen-
Eniett O’Brien has a perfectly Poverty Measurements in the Henry Carter Adams Collegiate Interestingly enough, the United gues. The line has no way of dis- dent on a standard. In the same
niee room in Davis Ha11_ United States.” Professor of Public Policy as playing data related to the depth way that Blank wants the United ’
But he 1eft the Comfort of his Blank received her BS. in well as a professor of economics. “R I h I of those in poverty nor how long States to expand its views, her
room iast week and spent severe] economics from the Univer- Blank also served as the co-direc— ea Ome ess pea‘ they have been in poverty. lecture inspires the expansion of
nights eainping in front of the sity of Minnesota. Upon further tor of the National Poverty Cen- le don It have Slee _ Furthermore, Blank will con- minds. As unique a microcosm
wiiiiatns school and ceininens, study, she received her Ph.D. in ter at the Ford School at Michi- p p tend that the data going into the as W&L is, our small world is
0nMenday,Q’}3iien’s yeiiew the same ﬁeld from Massachu- gan. From 1999-2007, Professor ing bags and tents, construction of this line is inaccu- willing to go past the acceptance
tent eat aiene andfol-101-n, Bnthy setts Institute of Technology. Blank was also the Dean at the rate in and of itself. This number of the entire world’s problems.
Friday, other tents had sprung up Blank is the author and editor of Ford School. They m jgh 1‘ only have is multiplied by a factor of three Even more admirable is the fact
next to his in a Show of support, several books addressing the is— She was also a member of the in order to obtain the family’s ac- that our education encourages us
O’Brien says he eatne up with sue of poverty and its measure- President’s Council of Economic blankets. ” tual income. to act as the leaders of tomorrow
the idea ofsleepjng out while sit- ments. Her works include “It Advisers. The lecture will take However, this method has and solve today’s problems.
ting in 3 Nabers service League Takes a Nation: A New Agenda place on Monday, Nov. 12 at 7 James Dlck camper not been adjusted for changes While Blank will provide .
meeting for Fighting Poverty,” along with p.m. in Northen Auditorium in ’ in spending pattern since 1965, an academic view of poverty,
“1 brought it up at Nahets as “Working and Poor: How Eco— Leyburn Library. Blank will dis-   when many non-cash assistance O’Brien’s gesture drew a more
an idea,” he said_ “Everyone said, nomic. and Policy Changes are cuss how this country can more programs were still small. The visceral reaction.
‘Yeah, that’s a great idea, but no- Affecting Low Wage Workers.” accurately measure poverty and States is the only country with a lecture will present B1ank’s so1u- “It got people thinking about
bedy’s ever been wining to do it Blank also held several pres- the depth of it. Blank will address standardized poverty line. tions for the problems with the the issue,” O’Brien said.
before.” 3,233
And O’Brien said that while . NH
temperatures hita low of28 de- U.S homeless estimates by state
grees on Wednesday night, he I 927
wasn’t too cold. 0 VT
“Because of the sleeping bag *’
I got from the Outing Club, I was 1343 655 2775
OK”, he Said" f 16,221 MT ND 7,313 ME 14 739 ‘
Sophomore James Dick OR _ MN “gm 
camped out with O’Brien on 5:424 §—.‘*‘-- 1 029 5,773
Tuesday, Nov. 6. 'D 487 'sD Wl 26,124 61,094 ,
After hearing what O’Brien WY M1 "Y 6.866 ‘
was doing, Dick got a tent from 8,130 15,298 5,357 m
the Outing Club and set it up on ‘$332 3,350 IA 16,165 PA 19,385“
the“gLra:S' f 1 t d d 170370  21 730 NE 16:99 gliiiw 0” 522 N’
o s o peop e s oppe an CA , ,
asked, ‘What are you doing?’” 5° 5,273 7,135 4934 109146 r9l9)513:8
Dick said. “But some people KS M0 ’ . ’
were confused because they \ KY 10,755 5'5"’
pointed out that homeless people 12,254 4,869 819,36 NC Dc
wouldn’t have tents.” AZ 5.256 OK 5,626 7 958
The low temperature in Lex- NM AR EC
ington was 30 degrees that night. 4,73, 27,151 .
Dick said the number doesn’t do 43 630 1,652 AL G
the cold justice. .;.x 5'35 M5
“It was absolutely freezing,”
he said. “But it enhanced the ex- °‘
perience to see what it’s like to ~»«-
not be totally warm. Real home- 60,357
less people don’t have sleeping 2,749 FL
bags and tents. They might only AK D 5-943
have blankets.” Q "I
The tent city was just one in
a string of events scheduled last A
week by Contact, Campus Kitch-
ens3:dNI:?11g:t :(,))r,;I,u:::11.1;y'SC,_ LARA JORDAN/ Design Editor .
Spring Break 2008- L - A- 1H -tl ForRent2008-9
Sell Trips. Earn Cash exmgton mma Ospl a 2BR,2BAHouse at 114 N.
a n C! G o F ree - Call fo r Welcomes You and Your Pet!! Randolph $1200 _
group discounts. Best 0 ,
L3 e 3 ' S_ G U a("3aa“nt e e d 9 20 A 0153 Olgﬁrz? 2BR Apartment at 112 N.
a r'n a I C a C u n - - 1 -
’ ’ zszt wzt t 15 a , Randol h $800
[A68 p [J I CC) ’ B 8 I“. 8 r‘_r1 8 S ’ Neﬂlients only/limit one per visit. Expires 06/30/2008 P
3- Padres F'Or'da- Largelsuiteapartmentat
8OO_848_4 (3 r DI‘. Sheryl H. Carls 7w,McD0well $900
vvwvv- ststravel . corn . 28 B01198 P1309 LeX1I1gt0D, VA 540-453-2715, Call 463 2521 .

 

   

Q

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2007

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor
Goodman scores a layup against VMI in a preseason scrimmage.

Baller turned “SAACer”

Junior Isaiah Goodman was selected to serve on the NCAA SAAC

By Michael Keenan
SPORTS EDl_TOR

Before this year, Washington and Lee
did not have a campus Student—Athlete
Advisory Committee, much less a repre-
sentative on the national Student-Athlete
Advisory Committee. This year, both
of those are changing thanks to junior
Isaiah Goodman, a business major from
Minneapolis, Minnesota, who is captain
of W&L’s basketball team.

“I wanted to join the national SAAC
because I thought I could provide valu-
able feedback to the NCAA,” said Good-
man. “I thought it would be a great expe-
rience to meet athletes from around the
country and share ideas and thoughts.”

Last spring, Goodman was nominated
to serve on the national SAAC.

“Last spring I was nominated by Ian A

Rosman and thought nothing of it until
I returned on campus,” said Goodman
when asked about the selection process.
“We assumed that I had not been select-
ed and I was excited to start the campus
SAAC. I later received a phone call and
was notiﬁed that I was a ﬁnal candidate
for the national SAAC.”.

The selection process is quite lengthy.
After the selections are received, the
NCAA committee ‘administration staff
compiles the nominee information and

forwards it to the Division III SAAC
for review. Then the Division III SAAC
forwards its recommendations to the
Nominating Committee for approval.
Afterward, the Nominating Commit-
tee forwards the recommendation to the
Management Council for approval and
to the President’s Council for ratiﬁca-
tion. Finally, appointees are notiﬁed by
the committee administration staff and
are provided NCAA travel policies and
access to the online Committee Appoint-
ment Acceptance Form.

Goodman represents the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference and Middle
Atlantic States Conference as one of 22
members of the NCAA SAAC. He will
serve until his term concludes in Sep-
tember 2010.

As a member of the national SAAC,
Goodman will offer his perspective on a
number of issues in Division III athletics,
including rules, regulations and policies.

“The national SAAC serves as sort ‘of
a funnel for the student-athlete opinions
from each institution. 1 will attend three
national meetings thoughout the year,
and I will continually provide feedback
to all channels about any surveys, legis-
lation or issues that come about.”

In addition to serving on the national
committee, Goodman is also playing an

active role in the creation of the SAAC
here on campus.

“For several years W&L has used
SAMs in order to perform the typi-
cal duties a campus SAAC would do,”
said Goodman. “It worked well until the
NCAA required all institutions to have a
campus SAAC. So, we’ve had one for a
while, but now we have the ofﬁcial title,
and the Campus SAAC will specialize in
its duties, and the SAMS will specialize
in their areas of interest.”

Goodman is one of the inaugural
committee members here on campus
that will help shape its mission. He cur-
rently serves as the chair of the constitu-
tion committee that is working to lay the
framework for the future. His vision for
the committee is far reaching. (

“I hope to establish SAAC as a legiti-
mate organization on campus. It is not
just another resume builder, it can actu-
ally enhance the lives of student-athletes
at W&L. I would like to see SAAC get
W&L athletics more involved in com-
munity service efforts and promote
events and activities that have not been
traditionally done on campus.”

“I think it is very special to be able
to participate in the National SAAC and
bring that experience back to a newly
formed campus SAAC.”

 

continued from page 8

Women sweep
ODACODBHBI

O 'sivanipllGetl)2sblarg, winning“
nine of 11 results behind a 0ne—tw0-
three Sweep in the 400 medley relay

ning relays. All told, twelve different swimmers ﬁnished the
meet with at least one ﬁrst place ﬁnish. '

On Saturday, the women crusied to another victory against
an overmatched Bryn Mawr College team winning 89-6. Gettys-
burg, however, proved to be much more of a challenge.

Gettysburg jumped out to a fast start, winning the ﬁrst eight
events before junior Lindsey Strachan took ﬁrst in the 200 back-
stroke in a time of 2: 13.39. Strachan also teamed up with Miata,
junior Susan Mahoney, and sophomore Jenna Worsham to take
second in the 400 medley relay.

The men had just one meet this week, facing Gettysburg on
Saturday, but made the most of it by winning nine of 11 events,
including both relays and the ﬁrst four events of the contest. It
was another total team effort with no swimmer tallying more
than one individual victory. ,

The opening event, the 400 medley relay, was a strong indica-
tion of things to come when the Generals swept ﬁrst, second, and
third place, giving them a 17-0 lead after the ﬁrst event. The team
of senior Even Fitzgeral, sophomores, lan Childers and Brandon
Bamds, and freshman Brandon Wilder won in a time of 3:45.03.
Wilder held off a late charge by senior Alex Sweet who swam the
anchor leg for the second place relay, winning by less than six
tenths of a second.

In the 400 free relay the team of senior Joe Steiner, fresh-
man Ryan Elsey, sophomore Nick Talluri, and Sweet came from
behind to win the ﬁnal event of the day. Sweet, swimming the
anchor leg, entered the pool over two seconds behind Gettys-
burg’s Adam Taft but completed the leg in 46.74 seconds to win
the event by less than three tenths of a second. It was an espe-
cially satisfying victory because earlier in the meet, Taft had out
touched Sweet in the 200 backstroke by the same margin to win
that event.

The women improved to 4-3, including 2-0 in conference,
with their performances this week while the men continued their
undefeated season, improving to 4-0. Both teams return to action
next Saturday when they travel to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania to take
on host Carnegie Mellon, Rochester, and Franklin and Marshall
at 1:00 p.m.

7, for The men’s team is comlhgiotfjot a‘n.eightl}
place ‘finish in last yea r’s§lNc}§A nationats.° ,
'  The men are off to a  start this season.

 

. 3°“°“- w    A,  
' *~ I-‘reshnien Tessli_ayden,a{nd Jaekieismithhave
7 made Immediate inrpactsiforjthe women.  A
ll-layden and  .team9€$iiyrith lkmy limbertsdn V
and Katie 3oli,ee tovyrgjnithe zooms retay inf ’   L »

it .1 the ODAC opener. »‘ A

I ' v 7 The womengaretofftojta 2~0{start_ii1ic6nterenoe 

Football closes year with  

loss in Pittsburgh

Team» ﬁnishes year at-2.5-3’-"While compiling a 4-2 mark in ODA C play

By Brian Devine
STAFF EDITOR

This was supposed to be the
season. All the pieces seemed
to be in place. A young and tal-
ented quarterback who gained
valuable experience when
thrust into the starting role in
his freshman year. A bruising
every-down running back to
wear down opposing defenses.
A smothering pass defense
to hold off opponents’ come-
backs. Despite the early-season
promise, this football season
was a disappointment, marred
by inconsistency and failure to
execute on the road and in big
games.

The Washington and Lee
Generals turned in what the
Europeans call “a yo-yo cam-
paign” -- up and down, losses
following wins, no consistency.
Picked second in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference by
its coaches and ranked 25th in
the nation by D3football.com in
the preseason, the Boys in Blue
failed to live up to expectations,
ﬁnishing third in a vastly im-
proved conference.

Last season the Generals did
just what they needed to do,
losing only once in the confer-
ence — at defending champions
Bridgewater — and inspired a
revival of fan support that had
lagged for at least a decade. The
conference’s traditional pow-
ers, Hampden-Sydney and Ran-
dolph-Macon, ﬁnished fourth
and last, respectively, in the ﬁ-
nal table.

To put it simply, they’re
back. The two faced off on Sat-
urday in the 113th edition of
“The Game” — a winner take all
match that handed the confer-
ence title to the visiting H-SC
Tigers.

On the same day, W&L, ﬁn-
ished with its conference sched-
ule and mathematically incapa-
ble of winning the title, lost to
Camegie-Mellon 39-21 in Pitts-
burgh. It marked the ﬁrst time
the squads have met since 1960
and just the third time overall.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

The Generals celebrate the final first down in the history of Wilson Field
against Bridgewater. The gutsy call to go for it on fourth down rather than
punting paid dividends as the Generals got the first, allowing them to kneel
down to run out the rest of the clock, sealing their 17-14 victory over Bridge-

water.

The game served as an oddly
appropriate cap to the Gener-
als’ season as it gave the team

. the chance both to look towards

the future and to send off its
senior class. Freshman Patrick
Rouse received the lion’s share
of the snaps from the quarter-
back position, replacing sopho-
more R.J. Vamer in the second
quarter. Rouse showed promise
(117 yards, one touchdown) but
also the need for his continued
development (three intercep-
tions). Aside from Rouse, the
squad looked to its departing
senior class for leadership. The
class’s overall four-year record
now stands at 26-14, tied for the
third-best four-year record in
the program’s history.

One senior made an espe-
cially signiﬁcant contribution
in Pittsburgh. Fan favorite wide
receiver Jack Martin, who was
averaging just over ﬁve catches
per game this season, snagged
eleven passes to bring his career
total to 167, a school record.

Martin surpassed another fan
favorite, 2007 graduate Colton

Ward, who totaled 161. With
his 108 yards receiving and one
touchdown on the day, “J -Mart”
will also graduate as the Gener-
als’ all-tirne leader in receiving
yards (2,953) and touchdowns
(23) and is certainly one of the
ﬁnest football players to ever
wear the Blue and White.

The Generals defense, re-
turning nine starters from last
year, seemed poised to dominate
opposing offenses. At times the
squad played at their potential,
shutting down Guilford quarter-
back Josh Vogelbach, already
among D-I1I’s all time most
productive QBs with a year left
to play. At times they looked
like a sieve, allowing 45 points
at Hampden-Sydney. Safety
Kyle Luby, another senior, de-
servedly won the team’s annual
Falcon Award, honoring former
Coach Gary Fallon, ﬁnishing
the season with a team-high
84 tackles. Luby and ﬁve other
seniors will graduate as the pil-
lars of a defense that showed
ﬂashes of brilliance but did not
improve on pace with the rest of

the ODAC.

What, then, can we take
away from the 2007 season?
Ultimately it is that W&L has
a short memory. Just ﬁve years
ago a third place ﬁnish and a
fourth consecutive winning re-
cord would have been cause for
celebration.

But last season’s title and
the accompanying expectations
for this season set the Blue and
White up for disappointment.

Had the Generals beaten
Hampden-Sydney four weeks
ago they would be sharing in
the ODAC title right now. In-
stead, the lasting image of this
season will be bulldozers on
Wilson Field, a stadium that
needs a serious upgrade.

Perhaps as we rebuild our
program’s longtime home, the
Boys in Blue will rebuild them-
selves into a more consistently
competitive side. To challenge
the conference’s new power-
houses, as they say, all the piec-
es will have to fall into place.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12,2007

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

 

Tues WED Tr-runs FRI SAT
Drew Drew
askﬂbau 3:00 p,m_ Tournament
at
a'§’2i'.'I.‘i'»};‘u ""°""“
1:00 pm.
at
Mon.‘ carnegle
swlmmlng Mellon; vs.
Rochester
& Franklln
wonwnvs & Marshall
Swlmmlnz 1:oo p.m.
aT
Vllrestllng Ursmus
lnvlte
:30 am.
at '
Women's NcAA
xc Nationals
at
lMen’s xc NCAA
Nationals

 

numbers
167

Career receptions for seniorJack Martin. Martin had 11 receptions
in Saturday’s game against Carnegie Mellon to move him past Colton

Ward's 161 to set the new W&L record.

4

Consecutive winning seasons for the Washington and Lee football
team. The Generals have not strung together this many winning sea-

sons since they put together six in a row from 1980-1985.

136

Total number of points scored by Navy and North Texas in Navy's 74-
62 victory. The total sets a new record for most points scored in a
Football Bowl Subdivision game. The 94-point ﬁrst half and 63-point

second quarter were also records.

box

“Sometimes when you stand at the line, with your

 

teammates all around you, waiting for the gun to
go off, you just know it is going to be a good race.
Saturday felt like that.”

Junlor Becca Taylor on Saturday's reglon cross country meet

“This is something I’ve been trying to accomplish
for over two years. Words can’t describe how
amazing it feels for all the miles, time, and sacri-
ﬁces to pay off in such a big way.”

Junlor Mlchael Welsh on qualifying for nationals at Saturday's regional
cross country meet

“Am I condemning the crew? Hell yeah, I'm con-
demning the crew...Unless this can change, the
Big 12 Conference needs to take a serious look at
having out-of-conference ofﬁcials ofﬁciate the Tex-
as Tech-Texas games and perhaps other games
where there is proven to be a bias by ofﬁciating,”
he said. “It's unfortunate and does the bowl pic--
ture enter into it? I don't know. Does the money
enter into it? I don't know.”

Texas Tech coach Mike Leach suggesting the officials favored Texas
after the Longhorns beat the Red Ralders 59-43.

 

ARIE GEORGE / Contributing Photographer

‘ea

STACY DOORNBOS / Contributing Photographer

STACY DOORNBOS / Contributing Photographer
Juniors Michael Welsh and Becca Taylor and sophomore Kat Telfeyan qualified for cross country nationals

Then there were three ,

Women take third, men place third at cross country regionals at CN U

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

The men’s and women’s cross coun-
try teams sprinted through Williamsburg
Saturday as they competed in the NCAA
South/Southeast Regional meet. The

women ﬁnished at a strong third out of

twenty-eight teams while the men took
fourth out of twenty-one teams.

The women were once again led by the
duo of sophomore Kat Telfeyan and junior
Becca Taylor who ﬁnished ninth in a time
of 23:32 and tenth in a time of23:33, re-
spectively.

These ﬁnishes qualiﬁed both Telfeyan
and Taylor for Nationals.

“Sometimes when you stand at the line,
with your teammates all around you, wait-
ing for the gun to go off, you just know it
is going to be a good race,” said Taylor.
“Saturday felt like that.”

“I’m very excited to be going Nation-
als; it’s a great opportunity to race at that
level of competition” commented Telf-
eyan.

The women also had some very
strong runs from junior Elizabeth Webb
and freshman Christine Balistreri. Webb
crossed the ﬁnish line in a time of24:03 to

take fourteenth, while Balistreri ﬁnished
thirty-third with a time of 24:54. These
are high rankings considering the ﬁeld of
186 runners.

Telfeyan concluded, “Our team had
been looking forward to Regionals all
year. We had hoped to beat Trinity for a
second place and guaranteed trip to na-
tionals, but they raced hard and almost
ﬁnished ﬁrst. I was very proud of the
team; we had 3 people in the top ﬁfteen,
and we blew away Mary Washington and
Roanoke, which was nice since we only
beat Roanoke by a point at ODACS.”

Meanwhile, the men were once again
led byjunior Michael Welsh who ﬁnished
in a stunning ﬁfth place out of 170 run-
ners after completing the course in a time
of 26:09, and qualifying for Nationals. Ju-
nior Vance Berry ran a time of 26:43 to
take seventeenth while senior Tom Brow-
er ﬁnished nineteenth in a time of 26:52.

Welsh spoke about making Nation-
als, saying, “This is something I’ve been
trying to accomplish for over two years.
Words can’t describe how amazing it feels
for all the miles, time, and sacriﬁces to
pay off in such a big way.”

And Welsh’s work has not gone un-
noticed by his teammates. “The day...

belonged to Michael Welsh. He ran an
amazing race to get ﬁfth and qualify for
nationals. The team couldn’t be happier
for him. There isn’t a more deserving guy
out there” commented Brower.

Berry went on to say, “Michael Welsh
put forth a surreal performance to take
ﬁfth place individually. He won’t tell you
this himself, but this guy is a stud.”

Overall, the team did very well. “Re-
gionals was one of the most important
meets of the season for us” explained
Brower. “We were ranked sixth in the re-
gion coming into Saturday, but we knew
with the right race we could get fourth or
ﬁfth, so this is an outstanding way to end
the season. This was our highest ﬁnish at
Regionals since 2004.”

Berry attributes much of the team’s
success to the coach. “Immense praise is
due [to] our coach John Tucker. I attribute
the lion’s share of this team’s success to
his calculated training plan and constant
encouragement.”

Welsh, Telfeyan and Taylor will all au-
tomatically compete at the NCAA Cham-
pionships on Saturday, which will be
hosted by St. Olaf College in Northﬁeld,
Minn.

Swimming takes four of five .

Junior Julia
Miata swims
her way to
victory in the
500 freestyle
on Friday night
against Sweet
Briar College
and Emory &
Henry.

By Michael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams were back in action
this week, winning a combined four of
ﬁve meets. The women began their ODAC
schedule Friday night by defeating Emory
& Henry 55-39 and Sweet Briar College
71-12. On Saturday, both teams traveled
to Gettysburg, Pa., where the men faced
Gettysburg and the women took on both

Gettysburg and Bryn Mawr. The women
split, defeating Bryn Mawr 89-6 but fall-
ing to the hosts 61-33. The men outswam
the Bullets on their way to a 104-93 vic-
tory.

The women were dominant in their
ﬁrst ODAC contest of the season, touch-
ing ﬁrst in ten of the eleven events con-
tested Friday night, including both the
200 medley relay and 200 free relay.

Junior Julianne Miata led the way for
the women winning two events. She out

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Men take down Gettysburg, women defeat SBC, E&H, and Bryn Mawr O

touched Melissa Simpson of Sweet Briar
by two hundredths of a second to win 200
IM in a time of 2:20.46 and later won the
500 free in a time of5:46.40,just one sec-
ond ahead of sophomore teammate Tara
O’Neil.

However, the win was a total team
effort. Seven different swimmers won
individual events for the Generals and
four more individuals contributed to win-

see “Women" on 7

