' Volleyball back in NCAAs

 

  
  

Y; u-ikzi I Y H1.'.¥7."!Vi‘.‘.. l
i2s‘~.4lw=.~.a-ii-311*.’ "‘.vl‘-43'3"‘
ocw; M’ .ﬂn."o‘.MéMJ

in our first moview review coiumn, Scott Centorlno breaks down American Gangster, the new Rldley 
movie Brat stars Oscar winners Denzel Washington and Russell crowe.

    

ARTS & LIFE / page 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5,2007

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXI, NUMBER 7

V aadrty, Friday eel’ ;
Saturday nights
lﬁ gram. ~ 2 cam.

 Ptinsw 
l, THE ﬁﬂiitsiiﬁi EXPRESS

3
,3
ii norm: is HIGRLIGHTED

3*, in YELLOW ran mun
-‘ couveusencs.

|I\l'Iv I-I-I-I-l\ wru-J urinal 6.:

.-—-v‘-~v——r.—_«¢';zm’~J0‘~\IlS‘—(-)r.>~4
.“,(A"w?_,:_‘p.........

COURTESY OF TRAVELLER

Problems have continued with the Traveller safe-ride system. On Monday night someone at the Pole
Houses threw cans at a dispatch van. When the driver got out, bystanders said the student ran away.

Drivers reﬂect on driving, students over Parents’ Weekend

By Wes O’DelI
STAFF WRITER

lt’s shortly after 11 p.m. on Parents Week-
end, and Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons
are blaring in the background. The girls in
the back are tipsily trying to get the names of
their cadet escorts straight—then the chorus
hits and they abandon their efforts in order
to sing along. The music is loud and spirits
are high as “December, 1963” gives way to
“You Make Me Feel Like Dancing.”

its just another night on one of Travel-
ler’s buses.

The Traveller safe-ride system, the net-
work of professionally contracted buses and
student-driven taxis designed to get party-
goers home safely, has faced a particularly
challenging year; physical damage to the
buses, verbal abuse from students, and a ren-
egade malevolent bus driver have all strained

nerves at a program that has expanded ex-
ponentially over the last few years to meet
tremendous student demand.

It has done so in the wake of several failed

“On average, I think they do
really well. Most show re-
spect, but then you have the
oddball 

John Smith, Traveller bus driver

safe-ride systems that have graced W&L’s
campus over the last two decades.
The drivers themselves had much to say

about their job on recent ride-alongs con-
ducted by the Phi.

The Good

The men and women who drive for Trav-
eller do so because they genuinely enjoy the
job.

“I love it; this is my relaxation time. I
have a good time driving. . .1 get to chat with
the kids,” said driver Mike Hudnall, a “four
or ﬁve year” veteran of Traveller.

“It feels pretty good [keeping drunk driv-
ers off the road]," he added.

Similarly, the drivers agree that, despite
recent troubles, most riders are polite and
well-behaved.

“On average, I think they do really well,”
said Jerry Massie, the site manager and lead

See “TRAVELLER” on page 2

Team upsets No. 1 seed Bridgewater to win another ODAC crown

By Michael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

For the ﬁrst time in years, the Washington
and Lee women’s volleyball team did not en-
ter the ODAC playoffs as the top seed. How-
ever, this only made them more determined
to win as they steamrolled their way through
Emory & Henry, Randolph-Macon College,
and Bridgewater to win their seventh con-
secutive ODAC title and assure themselves
a place in the NCAA playoffs. The Generals
entered the tournament as one of the league’s
hottest teams, riding a 22 game winning
streak dating back to September 22.

On Friday evening the Generals opened
the tournament against seventh-seeded Em-
ory & Henry. The Generals took the sting out
of the Wasps who only managed a meager
0.073 hitting percentage for the match. Offen-
sively, the Generals were led by junior Laura
Maurer’s 10 kills and eight aces and sopho-
more Rachael Phillips’ 10 kills. Preparing the
way for the attack were setters senior Lauren
Rudolph and sophomore Kristi Stevens, who
tallied 17 and 20 assists, respectively.

“We just focused on our game and played
at our own pace, not thinking about what
team was on the other side of the net,” said
Phillips about the team’s focus in the early
rounds. '

The ﬁnal score was 30-19, 30-17, 30-12.
The win advanced the Generals to the semi-
ﬁnals where they would face sixth-seeded
Randolph-Macon who upset Virginia Wes-
leyan to advance.

The Generals did not drop a game to Ran-
dolph-Macon in the two matches they played
during the regular season. The streak contin-
ued as the Generals swept the Marlins 3-0
with games scores of 30-14, 30-17, 30-25.
Phillips and Maurer continued to lead they
way, tallying 18 and 12 kills respectively.
Stevens and Rudolph combined to chip in 36
assists, and senior Jess Hudock added seven
kills and eight digs.

in the regular season, but that game helped
us see what we needed to improve upon to
get better as a team, so we focused on those
things and have improved dramatically since
then.”

The Generals played like a team on a mis-
sion, grounding the Eagles’ plans to foil the
Generals’ hopes for a seventh straight ODAC
title. En route to a 30-22, 30-19, 30-18 vic-
tory, the Generals were led by the usual sus-

“We had no doubt that we were going to win the game against

Bridgewater. We have a much tougher schedule than they do

and have battled good teams and come out on top, so we had

the edge in that area. ”

LAUREN RUDOLPH, team captain

In the ﬁnals, the Generals faced a Bridge-
water team that had not lost since September
15 and had swept the Generals in the Warner
Center earlier in the season. However, the
team knew this match would be different.

“We had no doubt that we were going to
win the game against Bridgewater,” said Ru-
dolph. “We have a much tougher schedule
than they do and have battled good teams and
come out on top, so we had the edge in that
area. The ﬁrst time we played Bridgewater
we did not play as well as we wanted to, and
we lost. Of course we hated losing to them

pects. Phillips, Maurer and Hudock all regis-
tered double-digit kill totals while Rudolph
and Stevens combined for 39 assists.

“It is amazing to have won ODACs every
year that 1 have played,” said Rudolph. “Be-
ing a part of a program that is this successful
is amazing and I’m sure that tradition will
continue long after I’m gone because of the
coaches and players that constitute the W&L
volleyball program.”

The team title was not the only piece of

See “VOLLEYBALL" on page 2

Ruscio defends
proposed four-
Week Spring Term

Current structure strains faculty,
undermines academic exploration

By John Henderson
5 TA F F w R I T E R

President Ruscio made the case for a shorter Spring Term on
Monday to students, stating that two classes in the spring is too
many. “If we don’t do something, spring term is going to be in
real jeopardy,” he said.

But he made his pitch to a largely empty room. Two student
forums — one on Oct. 15 and one on Oct. 29 — drew just one stu-
dent to each meeting.

That miserly turnout suggests that student input won’t be a
major factor when faculty vote on the plan today.

This year, students will be required to take two classes dur-
ing Spring Term, which Ruscio believes will defeat the purpose
of having a shorter semester. He is concerned that Spring Term
will become a condensed fall or winter term, not the immersive
academic experience it was meant to be. R

Last year, the faculty voted in favor of a two-class require-
ment for Spring Term, believing that many students were treating
Spring Term like a six-week vacation. A more intensive term
would keep students focused on school, they reasoned.

But as Ruscio pointed out, 25 percent of the student body
would have to leave to accommodate regular class limits. Other-
wise, classes would have to get bigger. Ruscio fears that small
classes encouraging academic exploration, which are the essence
of Spring Term, would be replaced by large, ungainly ones.

“If we don ’t do something, Spring Term is
going to be in real _ jeopardy...we have one

foot on the gas and the other foot on the

J

brakes. ’

Ken Ruscio, university president

Ruscio’s plan would limit students to one class during the
four-week term and thereby keep classes small. He said that his
model would revert Spring Term to its original format: a short,
intense academic experience with greater ﬂexibility.

Ruscio stressed that he is not trying to get rid of Spring Term
but save it. He said, “l’m worried that in two years it would re-
ally collapse. .. This is a way of rejuvenating Spring Term.” He
said that students would still have the option of going abroad for
a full six weeks or doing spring internships such as the Washing-
ton Program.

Ruscio sees a lot of potential in a four-week Spring Term.
Without scheduling constraints, professors could be creative

See “RUSC|0’S PLAN” on page 2

  Ruscio’s p
_- » i-FA shortened four-week springi1'e
 replace the current six~week'l:

- . Students will only be required.

0 one intensive academic class. R
believes this will revitalize the M -a
 ic conversation and allow pric§_es;,

" g to structure their classesgini Ve“

, exciting ways. 0 1,

9, Requiring one class during ﬁnri ..
1 instead of two will also atiow; ii 1

. . stay small. it 1
.3 ’ Students still have the optic. 

i ' abroad for a full six weeks of ’ 1

spring internships such as lilies
. Term. : P
L '7 Teaching, credit, and major req.
' , meats will be reduced. Prof
- only have to teach 5.5 course’
7, gnrhich means five courses of‘
. L  six the next. p.
. - lffaculty approve the plan ‘
 _?Jeffect during the 2009-2016
 ffyear. This spring and next spring‘
A operate under the previous  ‘
where students can take one.-
. classes during the six weeikiter

  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 

 

wmmcrou Q Lglémm

mmmMW 

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI °

Nov 0 5 280?

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2007

’ with how they structure their

Life on Traveller

continued from page one

bus driver; “most show respect, but then
you have the oddball. . .the one’s that are
good try to be good for the one’s that
aren’t.”

Hudnall has actually seen marked im-
provement over the last few years; while
he received “no thank-yous” his ﬁrst
year at W&L, he now says a majority of
riders thank him.

“For the most part, students are very
polite,” said driver John Smith, “[but]
every crowd has one or two jerks.”

The Bad

According to Smith, there are three
kinds of drunks: “the happy go-lucky
drunk, who is nice and sweet, the guy
who wants to ﬁght, and the sick and
blacked-out kind.”

Rude and belligerent riders are a pe-

rennial problem none of the drivers be-
lieve will ever go away. Each deals with
them in their own way.

Hudnall, for example, is fond of slow-
ing down near the county jail and direct-
ing the angry rider’s attention that way:
“there’s free room and board there!” he
exclaims.

Music can also sooth the savage
drunk; Massie and Hudnall’s buses are
both equipped with sound systems. “They
ask for music,” said Massie, “[it’ll] keep
them calm until we get where we are go-
ing.”

Sick students are a sore spot: “Use
the bucket, don’t use the bus,” said Hud-
nall. John Smith —who has taken three
students to the Health Center already this
year—vividly recounted an episode in
which a rider at the back of the bus was
so sick that the evidence of his sickness
ran all the way to the front of the bus.

Liquids of any sort are forbidden; vi-
sual evidence of alcohol earlier this year

Ruscio’s plan

continued from page one

classes, he said. Students would
have more time and attention to
dedicate to one class and would
get more out of it.

The plan would “revitalize

the academic conversation and
get us thinking in new and excit-
ing ways,” Ruscio said.
Ruscio’s plan is not just to short-
en Spring Term but to lessen the
teaching, credit and major re-
quirements as well. Professors
would only have to teach 5.5
courses per year, which in practi-
cal terms means ﬁve courses one
year and six courses the next.
Teaching is more complex than
ever, Ruscio said, and professors
need more time to teach, advise,
write and do research.

Ruscio said that most other
liberal arts schools have far
smaller requirements than we
do, but at W&L we try to do too
much. “We have one foot on
the gas and the other foot on the
brakes” he said.

But Ruscio also feels that
W&L has the best environment
of any liberal arts college for
teaching and learning. He be-
lieves that if W&L can rethink
its requirements, it will become a
leader among liberal arts colleg-
es. “We’d be like the Red Sox
sweeping the Rockies” he said.

Ruscio will present his plan
to the faculty today. If approved,
the plan would go into effect in
the 2009-2010 academic year.
Spring term would go back to
its original format until that time
six weeks long with only one re-
quired class.

Volleyball

continued from page one

hardware the Generals took home.
Phillips was named ODAC MVP.
She was joined on the All~ODAC
team by Maurer and Hudock.

The Generals now move on to
the NCAA playoffs where they
could be sent to Texas or New
Jersey.

“We want to have another
great NCAA run like last year,
and it is «deﬁnitely possible,” said
Rudolph. “Once we ﬁnd out who
and where we play, that ﬁrst game
will be our focus, but if we con-
tinue to play the way we have the
past few weeks, 1 think it will be a
great NCAA tournament for us.”

“Whether we win or lose, we
just hope to play all out and leave
everything on the court,” said
Phillips. “And if we do lose, we
want to go down ﬁghting.”

 Seven  
 straight

_”-‘ 1 Aside from Brtdge- r
"‘ *]water’s tltte in P
2000, W&L has won
qevery ODAC crown
, since 1997 P
E _ The regular season
0 toss to Brldgeater
was the first ODAC; ,
toss since 2001

 

 ©2007 US. Cellular Corporation.

even provoked the police to search a bus.
This Parents Weekend, one rider tried to
bring what Smith described as “a trash
bag full of beer” on the bus. When Smith
explained that the spirits would have to
stay behind, the spurned rider was “very
upset.”

The drivers agree that students don’t
understand the buses.

“When they get on the bus, it’s like
‘what can you do for me?”’ said Smith.
Students don’t realize that Traveller is a
system to get them home safely. Many
also can’t wrap their minds around the
idea of Country Express, which runs a
continuous route from Red Square to the
country after midnight to reduce wait
times.

Riders tend to swarm the buses near
the end of the night, fearful of being
stranded. Drivers have seen some stu-
dents nearly trampled in the rush, de-
spite the fact that the buses will gener-
ally make another run after 2:00 if the

crowds warrant it; Traveller Country
Express didn’t return to Red Square on
Parents Weekend Saturday until 2:29.

Despite recent troubles, Massie is op-
timistic that the Traveller organization
and the students can solve their prob-
lems: “Together, we’ll all get this ironed
out.”

The Taxi

There is no typical night for a Travel-
ler Dispatch driver. On October 26, for
example, driver Jess Steinmetz (with a
Phi reporter in tow) was sent to a non-
existent address in town, mistaken for a
Dominoes delivery vehicle, and offered
a chance to purchase narcotics some-
time in the future by a particularly grate-
ful rider.

“It was such a slow night,” she said--
without irony-—afterward..

Operated by the students for the stu-
dents, the Dispatch service operates a
number of taxicabs that ferry students

right out of the box, along with a

30-Day FREE Napster To Go trial.

Which makes it, literally, music
to your ears.

US. Cellular is wireless
where you matter most?”

7/? us. Cellular

getusccom. 1~888—BUY—USCC

U.S. CeHuiar®introduoes the ‘ ' if “
MOTOROKR""-—a phone and" "
MP3 player in one simple, stylish
plug-and~piay form. It comes with
everything you need to get started

throughout the town and county. Thus
far into the year, drivers have been con-
fronted with an unusual amount of abuse
on the part of the riders.

“People think [it’s] their right, a privi-
lege,” Steinmetz said in reference to the
program, which relies in large part on the
willingness of service-minded students
to give up their party nights to help make
the community safer.

The pay they receive is often‘ compa-
rable with that offered by fraternities to
their school-mandated sober drivers, but
the treatment they receive at the hands of
riders is oﬁen worse thanks to the sense
of entitlement many students attach to
the Traveller service.

Nonetheless, Traveller drivers soldier
on, both for the pay and for the satisfac-
tion that comes with helping fellow stu-
dents.

“I’m supposed to get off at 2:00,”
said Steinmetz. “I’ve never gotten off at
2:00.

  
     
    

MOTOROKR" Z6m

  

O

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2007

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

 

opinions

—-—-——--—— WASHINGION AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR

NEWS EDITOR
ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

ASST. COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
DESIGNER

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

libel and

JACOB GEIGER

JESSICA SHAW
GRACE WANG
STACEY GRIJALVA
SACHA RAAB
MICHAEL KEENAN
CATHERINE CARLOCK
WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN

KATHIE SCOTT

SCOTT CENTORINO
KEVIN CORN

BRIAN DEVINE

JOHN HENDERSON
HANK NATHAN

WES O’DELL

AMOR NEILL THUPARI
RUSS WEEMS
KIMBER WIGGS

LARA JORDAN

LENORA NUNNLEY

CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting,.we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@w|u.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitionsof

obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGI-NIA 24450

 

Diversity needs student participation

editor

When I think sometimes

Why do we laugh at situations that really are not funny?

By Lenora Nunnley
C0 LUM NIST

Why exactly do we laugh? That’s right;
I am asking why do we laugh, in particular
at other people? Many of the things that we
giggle, chuckle, and double over laughing
at are not really funny at all once you stop
and think about it.

I’m sure you’ve found yourself, at some
point in your life, laughing at a person be-
cause they are running. Yes, running, which
by itself is not hilarious. However, given
that all surrounding people are calmly walk-
ing and there’s that one man who is sprinting
as if being chased by a cheetah that hasn’t
eaten for 91.2 days, you just might ﬁnd run-
ning rather funny.

Would you laugh? Even if you’re not the
laughing type, most would smile or at least
make a little humming sound as if to contain
a laugh.

Why? Because we ﬁnd it funny when
other people run and we are unaware of the
reason. Of course the man could be running
to save a baby who is being suspended ov_er
a balcony by a very pale high—voiced male
or perhaps he is running to help a 97-year-
old lady cross the street. However, because
of his inability to share that valuable infor-
mation, he will be the source of someone
else’s laughter.

Sadly, I cannot honestly say that it would
make much of a difference even if he were
being chased by a hungry cheetah. It’s my
bet that after the bystanders ensured their
own safety, they would most deﬁnitely bend
over and laugh at the man who was running
for his life.

This is not funny. However, if such a
thing were to happen, I guarantee you that
99.5 percent of the witnesses would laugh,
call someone else and tell an exaggerated
version of the story, and/or bring up the
situation for comic relief at some point in

the future.

Why do we laugh when people
fall? Here’s how it usually happens: Some-
how you fall, quick like lightning you get
up, rearrange your clothes, and wipe off a
single bead of perspiration, and you look
around two to four times to make sure you
were not seen.

If you have witnesses, you look down
at your feet and ﬂoor and exclaim “what
was that?” loud enough for everyone to
hear, pretending that something besides
your own two feet caused your fall. As you

Of course the man could be
running to save a baby who is
being suspended over a balco-
ney by a very pale high—voiced
male... but because of his in-
ability to share that, it is funny.

carefully walk away looking confused, you
listen for whispers or laughs. Once you’re
out of sight of the witnesses you sigh while
thinking,“That was so embarrassing.”
That’s mostly likely how you reacted
when you fell. A deviation would be if you
fell on your face or in front of kids. If you
fall on your face, never jump back up; most
likely your face will be stinging so badly
that you won’t be able to anyway.
However, even if you feel like you can
get up, stay on the ground motionless and
wait for someone to run to your rescue; that
way people will be more apt to feel sorry
for you or at least see if you are okay be-
fore laughing. Actually, when you fall it’s

always best to stay on the ground for a few
seconds rather than jump back up; with ev-
ery second you remain on the ground, the
level of sympathy you will receive increas-
es exponentially.

But if you fall in front of a group
of kids, you better be prepared for an
earthquake. Yes, the earth will shake with
high pitched laughter. A vivid description of
your fall will deﬁnitely be the ﬁrst thing out
of all the kids’ mouths when they see their
parents.

Most likely after one of these falls you
will start preaching that falling is not a
laughing matter and can be very serious be-
cause people can get hurt. Your pride will
probably be the only things hurting at the
time, but you will try to convince the kids
otherwise by making up some story about
someone who fell and had to go to the
hospital. The extreme may even say that the
person died because of their fall.

If you trip, you will also get laughed
at. However, trips are more disappointing,
at least for the witnesses. So you’re walk-
ing, whistling a cheerful tune, and you trip;
there is a spilt second between a trip and a
fall, and it’s during that spilt second that sus-
pense builds and people become excited.

During that split second, people around
you will start celebrating within themselves
as they think they are about to witness a
fall. However, you terminate their anticipat-
ed climax of you hitting the pavement when
you catch yourself and do not fall.

Of course, some will ask you if you are
okay, but they are secretly very dismayed;
others will laugh anyway to mask their dis-
appointment. _

I’ve given you three examples of things
we laugh at that are not exactly funny, how-
ever, the list could go on. By no means am I
advising anyone to stop laughing. Laughing
is good for your health; I just want you to
stop and ponder why we laugh.

Strikes = reruns

Why pay more for disappointing quality?

W&L sﬁrst Black Homecoming Queen addresses student shock at her win

I was not surprised to ﬁnd an
article attacking diversity on our
campus in the Parents Weekend
Edition. It is a yearly tradition
after all. I was taken aback,
however, by the number of fac-
tual errors within “Guilt Fuels
Diversity Initiatives.” Before I
address the substantial concerns
about diversity on our campus,
let me set a few things straight.

Therelare indeed special di-
versity awareness weeks, meals
in the dining hall, and speak-
ers. Most of these initiatives
are hosted by student organi-
zations, not the administra-
tion. The Multicultural Student
Association (MSA) sponsors
heritage months that recognize
the contributions of the various
cultures and groups to W&L
life and American society. The
Student Association for Inter-
national Learning (SAIL) often
collaborates with the D-Hall to
sponsor special menus, drawing
attention to the diversity that ex-
ists within our student body. I
imagine that if I came from an-
other country, I would want to
share some aspect of my culture
with others. Why not food? We
all have to eat.

The article also mentions
that there are special programs
to help non-white students
“transition” into life at W&L. I
like to think of myself as rather
informed, and to my knowledge,

Sororities create student divide,

As a member of a Greek or-
ganization, I am truly aware of
all the positive aspects that the
Greek system embodies; other-
wise why would I bother? That
being said, my positive experi-
ence has been tainted by a huge
ﬂaw in W&L’s Greek system.

One of its biggest draws,
the all-inclusiveness touted as
so unique to our school, actu-
ally serves to exacerbate the
“elitism” and “doubting of self-
worth,” a problem acknowl-
edged by Dane Boston’s article.
By its very nature, the inclusion
of a vast majority of the student

there are no special transition
programs for multicultural stu-
dents. In general, students have
access to the same transition
programs. If there are efforts
to help multicultural students
adjust to campus, they are ini-
tiated and controlled by other
students.

It is not my intention to focus
on these surface-level details
about diversity. Instead, like the
author, I want to challenge the
common perception of diversity
on our campus. The problem
with diversity on our campus
lies not with the administration
but with the student body. Let’s
discuss the Homecoming Queen
controversy.

I am honored to be the 2007
Homecoming Queen and indeed,
W&L’s ﬁrst Black Homecoming
Queen. What is sad about the
experience is that so many of us
were shocked that it happened.
Despite my work on campus,
love for this university and
some (not all) of its traditions,
I was afraid that I would not
be named Homecoming Queen
because of my race. Many stu-
dents are genuinely excited that
I am Homecoming Queen, yet
others would deny me the op-
portunity because I am black.
It’s disappointing to think that
students, my peers, would not
be able to see past my race and
acknowledge my connection to

body creates a hierarchy within
the Greek community and alien-
ates those not participating.

The all-inclusiveness of our
sorority system works to sepa-
rate the students, not unite them.
There exists a huge struggle for
recruitment. Instead of the po-
tential end goalin recruitment to
be in a Greek organization and
part of the Greek system as a
whole, the emphasis moves to try
to join the sororities at the top of
the hierarchy. What is the point
of an all-inclusive system if it
doesn’t even protect the feelings
of potential new members? Our

this university. In a community
that claims to be inclusive, it’s
hard to deal with this conflicting
perspective.

I am positive that when those
students expressed shock about
a black Homecoming Queen
that other students stayed silent
and did not challenge their state-
ments. I recognize that there are
“unoﬂicial” pressures on campus
to change who one is and con-
form to different ways of think-
ing, acting, and even dressing.
I know that there is a tendency
to ignore or disparage other stu-
dents because of their gender,
sexual orientation, Greek afﬁli-
ation (or lack thereof), race, or
ethnicity. We criticize the ac-
tions of our administration but
how often do we consider our
own actions? Those pressures,
those statements, and that way
of life come from within our
student body.

So what is diversity done
right? The ﬁrst step to “doing”
diversity right is to stop think-
ing of it as a burden upon our
university rather than a beneﬁt.
We should all consider how in-
creased diversity can broaden
our perspectives and help us
further engage in our local and
global communities rather than
focus on unrealistic hypothetical
changes to our university (such
as white southemers becoming a

minority group).

campus as a whole has decided
to ignore this problem and con-
tinues to promote the idealized
notion of total participation.

For now, seeing as the ad-
ministration continues to propa-
gate false beliefs about the func-
tion and intention of the Greek
system, the burden falls upon
potential new members to see
beyond meaningless stereotypes
and the dangerous tendency to
extract a measure of self—worth
from one’s membership.

Yes, joining certain organi-
zations will change your W&L
experience, and at this point in

Diversity done right includes
initiating open dialogue among
students about our campus cul-
ture and acknowledging that
not every tradition is perfect.
Diversity done right includes
initiatives by students to assess
inclusiveness on campus. It also
includes a student commitment
to diversity in its many forms.
Like the author, I look forward
to the day when it’s not a nov-
elty that a deserving woman
of any background is named
Homecoming Queen. In order
to see that day, however, W&L
students will have to take an ac-
tive role in bringing it about.

Therefore, it’s not a bad
thing to celebrate that W&L has
a black Homecoming Queen. It
is an example of the progress
W&L has made. But let’s not
stop there. We as students need
to come together and ﬁgure out
what we can do to make our
campus environment more in-
clusive. Stop expecting change
from the top and instead focus
on what we can do on a peer-
to-peer level. Diversity on this
politically correct and tradition-
mired campus will not happen
naturally. It’s an admirable no-
tion, but an inclusive community
on this campus requires proac-
tive student initiatives. We need
active student participation. I
am ready whenever you are.

—Quiana McKenzie ‘O8

hierarchy

your university career, it might
seem as though this change will
be for the worse.

But let me emphasize, in a
few years removed from the
emotionally-charged chaos that
is sorority recruitment, you’ll
see the emphasis on. your af-
ﬁliation wane, and life becomes
more about who you are, not
what you are. Appreciate the
Greek system for the opportuni-
ties it provides, but do not allow
the system to tell you that two or
three Greek letters deﬁne who
you are.

—Jenny Plaster ‘08

By Kathie Scott
COLUM NIST

The information from my fall
television lineup may now be obso-
lete since Hollywood writers have
called the ﬁrst strike since 1988.

The contract between The Writ-
ers Guild of America and the Alli-
ance of Motion Picture and Televi-
sion Producers expired on Oct. 31.

So what is this big nonnegotia-
ble quarrel over? The most popular
source of problems: money. The
writers want more.

Once upon a time, writers could
proﬁt only from VHS and the one
television slot they were appropri-
ated. We all know this has changed
in this new age of technology.

After all, how many of you
watch your favorite show online?
Now we have iPods, cell phones,
computers and DVD players all
providing viewers with more access
to the shows they love the most.

With television shows gaining
more visibility, writers feel they
should be paid more for their script-
writing abilities. And in all fairness,
don’t songwriters obtain ﬁnancial
compensation whenever their song
is played on a radio station, a mov-
ie, or a television show?

The big question, of course,
is how does this affect me? As a
viewer, the effects of the strike will
not be felt until next season. The
scripts for this season have already
been ﬁnished. The troubling times
will occur in January when new air-
ings will be replaced with reruns.

The only saving grace in this
matter is the surprisingly still popu-
lar reality television frenzy. These
shows do not heavily rely on writ-
ers and will therefore continue pro-
ducing new shows. The ﬁrst shows
to suffer will be late night shows
like The Jay Leno Show and The
Daily Show with Jon Stewart. Then
daytime and primetime shows like
General Hospital, Heroes, and
Grey’s Anatomy will provide an
appropriate dose of déja vu with
reruns galore. '

The more pressing matter is how
this strike affects the economy. The
entertainment industry contributes
to $30 billion dollars a year or seven
percent of Los Angeles’ economy.
In L.A. the amount of lost revenue
totals $2 billion dollars a month

and 82,000 lost jobs.

The scariest part to think about
is that this strike has a domino ef-
fect. It’s not just the writers who
lose money. The owner of Televi-
sion and Cinema Wardrobe Clean-
ers manages 2,000 garments a night
for certain television shows. There
are some Landscape companies
who specialize in greenery for tele-
vision show sets. Restaurants that
cater to certain studios have already
experienced a decline in customers
since talks of a strike began. And
of course Talent Agencies might
begin layoffs.

Now, when all these repercus-
sion are fully processed, I begin to
think the writers are selﬁsh. If the
writers continue with this strike,
the studios will be forced to either
show reruns or recreate past ideas
from earlier episodes. Oh wait, they
already do that anyways.

From analyzing the fall lineup,
I learned that the Hollywood motto
is “Reuse, Renew, and Recycle.”
So will anyone really notice if the
writers go on strike? Do writers,
who already make $200,000idollars
a year plus residuals, really need
their pensions doubled?

In fact, WGA writers made $56
million dollars in surplus for DVD
sales. What’s more, does anyone
really care if Hollywood writers
aren’t getting as much money as
they “deserve” when they’re al-
ready getting paid well enough
given the quality of the scripts?

Is anyone else really disappoint-
ed in “Grey’s Anatomy” lately? I
don’t think that writer should get
twice as much money. As entertain-
ing as “Heroes” can be at times,
does that writer really deserve
double his already large income?

Basically, I think the writers
should quit their whining. Show
me new scripts, with new ideas and
new twists, and then I’ll entertain
the idea of doubling their money as
a reward for all that they do.

Invest in Netﬂix. If January
comes around and the strike is still
going strong, invest in an obscene-
ly large movie collection and you
will be just ﬁne. The strike in 1988
lasted 22 weeks, I’m sure this strike
will not last any longer.

Now, if the actors follow suit and
strike, then some concern would be
appropriate.

 

   

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2007

arts&life

 

Students Support Sudan

W&L students show support for Sudan while showing 017 their talent in Showcase

By Klmber Wlggs
STAFF WRITER

Last Friday, the Student Association for International Learning (SAIL) held
the second annual Showcase for Sudan. The competition brought acts from
all over campus to entertain and to promote the cause of stopping genocide in
Darfur.

W&L was treated to a wealth of homegrown talent, ranging from the co-
medic to the incredible. MarkHeavens Tshuma and Linnea Bond amused the
crowd with a song from the musical comedy Urinetown, while the Hotness,
featuring Zaq Lawal, Sophie Xiong, Colton Payne and Chris Washington, had
the audience agape with their astonishing moves. In the end, Eric Reitz came
in third place, Julia Pleasants landed second, and the Hotness walked away
with the ultimate prize. The dance group then wrapped up the evening with an
encore of their winning performance. '

Though the night was entertaining, to say the least, it is important not to for-
get the reason for the evening. The goal of the Showcase was to raise money for
and awareness about the continuing genocide in Darfur. When the Showcase
for Sudan was first conceived last year, the Darfur conﬁict was a major news
story, bringing it to the attention of one of SAIL’s sister organizations, IDRG
(International Development Relief Groups). I had a chance to interview Grace
Andrews, member of IDRG and one of the mastemiinds behind Showcase for
Sudan.

One question many people have is “Why Sudan?”

“Sudan is the genocide of our generation,” said Andrews. She and her fel-
low SAIL members felt that the injustice in Darfur was something particularly
relevant to our age group, something for people to rally behind and be pas-
sionate about. The conﬂict began back in 2003. Since that time, UN ofﬁcials
estimate that over 400,000 people have lost their lives due to starvation and
disease as well as ethnic violence. When faced with such statistics, it is difﬁcult
to remain complacent, which is why the Showcase was created. If a few more
people are made aware of this crisis and begin to further support the cause, then
I say the evening was a success.

The Showcase was also successful on a more local level, because it was an
opportunity for student organizations from all over campus to come together
for this important cause. The General Activities Board contributed time and
money, paying for the winners’ trophies and cash prizes. The faculty and ad-
ministration were very supportive of the planning and execution of the event.
Greek organizations helped spread the word among their membership. The Pro-
duction Club ran lights and sound. As Andrews ran through a list of organiza-
tions, it seemed as if the entire campus was involved in some way, which is a
truly inspiring notion.

“Sometimes there’s a disconnect,” said Andrews, “because so much is going
on. For this effort, everyone really came together... I don’t think it happens as
often as it should.”

Indeed, it doesn’t, but thanks to events like this, we are perhaps making
strides toward a more united and conscientious community.

New Scott ﬁlm good but
not best suited for actors
Washington and Crowe

By Scott Centorino
STAFF WRITER

“The loudest man in the room is the weak-
est."

So says Frank Lucas, portrayed by Denzel
Washington in the new crime ﬁlm, American
Gangster: Unlike other crime lords, Lucas‘
sharp yet subtle dress marks both his physical"
appearance and attitude toward the family busi-
ness. Lucas slowly rises to the top of New York
City‘s drug trafficking business in the late 1960s
and early 1970s in a cool but brutal fashion.

Arnerican Gangster, directed by Ridley Scott
and starring Washington and Russell Crowe, is
a gritty and violent slice of life during the Viet-
nam War. Its direction, costumes, soundtrack
and supporting cast all make the ﬁlm an excel-
lent way to spend two and a half hours.

It is well-paced, entertaining, thought-pro-
voking at times and does not drag. Scott’s previ-
ous ﬁlms, such as Black Hawk Down, Gladiator,
and Kingdom ofHeai'en, have many of the same
qualities in terms of setting moods and trans-
planting viewers into another era. However, the
ﬁlm’s weaknesses also spring from similari-
ties to other films. For the most part, American
Gangster is an updated, African-American ver-
sion of The l"r‘ench Cormection.

Scott’s lack of originality can become tire-
some for anyone who has seen The French
Connection, which won the Academy Award
for Best Picture in 1971. The same basic plot
of a cop (Gene Hackman in The French Con-
nection and Russell Crowe in American Gang-
ster) cracking a drug trafﬁcking scheme in the
greater New York City is copied well, but cop-
ied nonetheless.

Going to a movie starring two Best Actor
winners still in the prime of their careers, one
expects fantastic acting to carry the ﬁlm. Wash-
ington and Crowe have given some of the most
memorable performances of the last twenty
years, but neither performs with the depth that
their characters deserve.

However, looking back on Ridley Scott's re-
cord, wc see great movies, not great actors. For
example, Black Hawk Down didn’t mesmerize
us because ofteiriﬁc acting. Ridley Scott craft-
ed the filiii so the actingjust “ﬁt in” with his di'-
recting. Scott made Black Hawk Down, not Josh
Hartnctt. However, none of Ridley Scott’s pre-
vious hits were character driven. Perhaps Scott
doesn’t have the ability that other directors have
in bringing out the best in actors, or, perhaps he
just shines with epics that are entertaining rather
than a product of quality acting.

Regardless, American Gangster; although
billed as an epic, is no epic. No crime ﬁlm is an
epic. Not even The Godfather is an epic ﬁlm.
Crime films are naturally small scale, character‘
driven ﬁlms. Acting made The Godfather; as
well as The Departed and Good/‘e/las.

Americarr Gangster is simply a mismatch.
Ridley Scott excels in non—cliaracter driven,
historical epics. Deiizel Washington and Russell
Crowe excel in smaller, character-driven films,
which American Gangster should have been.
Despite all of this criticism, the film is superbly
entertaining and compellingly dirty.

For fans of the genre, it satisﬁes a craving.
But in the end, we see Ridley Scott try to over-
direct this ﬁlm, shadowing the acting talent he
has at his disposal. Scott's enormously powerful
(lirectioii actually hurts the ﬁlm.

“Tlie loudest man in the room is the weak-
est.“

Top:

Dancers Rasaq Lawal,
Sophie Xiong, Colton
Payne and Chris Wash-
ington took 1st place
with their dance to
Hotness.

Middle:

Sophomore Markheav-
ens Tshuma and fresh-
man Linnea Bond sing
a song from the com-
edy, Urinetown.

Far Left:

Sophie Xiong showing
off her dance moves
Middle Left:

Is anyone listening?
These students are try-
ing to raise awareness
for Sudan!

Near Left:

Julia Pleasants show-
ing her excitement for
the cause.

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5,2007

ma RING-TUM ﬂiii -

 

orts

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
     
   

ence.

four starters

from last year is
11-1 4 squad

Left: Senior forward Femi Kusimo
lofts a layup with 0.4 seconds left
in the first half of Thursday's scrim-
mage against D-I Virginia Military
Institute as junior guard Isaiah
Goodman looks on. The Keydets,
who reached the finals of the Big
South tournament last year, defeat-
ed W&L 98-81.

Below: In this sequence of photos,
Kusimo goes up for a rim-rattling
dunk. in frame three, guard Chris
McHugh (No. 14) likes what he
sees. The Generals are coming off
their best season in 16 years and
have been picked to finish seventh
In the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

The team returns five of its top six
scorers, including senior Greg Bl-
enemann, who averaged 17.8 points
per game last season and was
named to the all-ODAC team.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

The Birth of a New Evil Empire

Why two Red Sox titles in four years isn ’t necessarily a good thing

By Amor Neill Thuparl
smrr written

A lot has to happen for a
team to win a World Series these
days. You need to have excel-
lent pitching from your starters
to the heart of your bullpen. You
need to have consistent, timely
hitting in every tough playoff
situation. And maybe more so
than you think, you need to
have some luck, or a lot of luck
if you can, to help you along
the way. The 2007 Boston Red
Sox had all of these things and
more on their way to sweeping
the Colorado Rockies. The city
that was once synonymous with
heartbreak, disappointment and
failure in baseball now stands
atop the league once again, and
it doesn’t look like things are go-
ing to change anytime in the near
future.

As it stands right now, there
is no salary cap in Major League
Baseball, meaning that any team
can spend as much money as
they want, depending on the ﬁ-
nancial capabilities of its owner.
This has led to the New York
Yankees having a payroll of
over $195 million while teams
such as Washington, Florida and
Pittsburgh struggle to reach $50
million. The Yankees are no lon-
ger a team but simply a bizarre
collection of amazing talent that
cannot seem to win champion-
ships the way they did in the mid
to late 1990s when they were an
actual squad of 25 baseball play-
ers working together.

The same cannot be said
about the Red Sox given their
recent success in the postsea-
son, but it must be noted that
they have a payroll of over $143
million, easily the second high-
est payroll in all of baseball. In
the last off-season they paid over
$51 million just to talk to Japa-
nese pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka
and eventually signed him for
a contract that could be worth
$60 million. This year they also

playing according to the rules of
the game, and as long as there is
no salary cap in baseball, they are
allowed to spend how much they
want on whoever they want.
Using this tool to their advan-
tage, the Red Sox were able to
win the World Series this year
despite having just eight mem-
bers of their 25 man roster be
homegrown products of the Red
Sox farm system. The rest of the
team simply came together from

Hoards of Red Sox ‘fans ” now ﬂock to oppos-

ing stadiums and feel obligated to carry on

like the little kid in your neighborhood who

got a new bike and comes to show it oﬂfor ev-

eryone else and then proceeds to tell everyone

just how inferior their bike is in comparison to
his. Did he earn his bike? Of course not. Mom
and dad had to buy it for him so he ’d stop

complaining and actually shut up for a while.

spent $14 million on the listless
and hopeless J.D. Drew, whom
Boston fans have constantly be-
rated all season until Drew hit
a grand slam home run against
Cleveland and all was magically
forgotten.

Now, I’m_ not trying to make
it seem as if this is an unfair at-
tribute of the Red Sox. They are

other cities in search of a big-
ger contract. Boston outﬁelder
Manny Ramirez even said in an
interview when down 3-1 in the
ALCS, facing elimination to the
Cleveland Indians, “It doesn’t
happen, so who cares? There’s
always next year. It’s not like it’s
the end of the world.”

It’s sad to say it, but I’m not

the least bit hesitant to because
of the truth and reality of it, the
Red Sox completely show what
is wrong with baseball by buy-
ing their way to a World Series.
They did nothing different than
what the Yankees have done, and
along the way they even lost some
of their prized free agents to the
Yankees and other teams in bid-
ding wars. They didn’t look for
team chemistry but rather relied
on blind luck as to what would
happen and whether or not the
team would gel over the course
of the season. It’s the baseball
purists’ worst nightmare: a new
Evil Empire that actually wins
World Series titles.

Hoards of Red Sox “fans”
now ﬂock to opposing stadiums
and feel obligated to carry on
like the little kid in your neigh-
borhood who got a new bike and
comes to show it off for every-
one else and then proceeds to tell
everyone just how inferior their
bike is in comparison to his. Did
he earn his bike? Of course not.
Mom and dad had to buy it for
him so he’d stop complaining
and actually shut up for a while.
Pretty soon, fans of the Red Sox
will be put into the same posi-
tion as Yankees fans are now,
and if they don’t make it to the
World Series often and win them
with regularity, each season will
be a disappointment. So enjoy
it while you can, Red Sox fans,
because come next April it will
have been ﬁve months since
your last World Series win. It’s
unbearable, isn’t it? How unfair.

Men open season
at VMI scrimmage

Team returns

Oil Exchange & Lube

754 North Lee Hwy.
Across from Tractor Supply ,
540-463-502Q
Save $1.00 — Show W&L ID

For Rent 2008-9
2BR, 2 BA House at 114 N.
Randolph $1200

2BR Apartment at 112 N.
Randolph $800

Large 2 Suite apartment at
7 W. McDowell $900
Call 463 2521

Gardening Service

Reasonable Rates,
Experienced

 

540-460-2jr4fl% ~  

Timber Ridge Auto Center
I63} ‘v’a3Eey ?'%i<e
.l;.exiiigton., VA 24450
{$40) 464-l99”?

   

ass’ :3. . arse

Foreign and iﬁomestie Repairs
Oil cl.raa.ge and Lube, NC, Computer Diagiitisties.
Minor and Major i£..ngi.ne i?;.ep2iir, Brakes,
‘Fuel lrajee-£ie.ti Service, Transrn.issien Service,
Coolant Flush, M inor anti ’:‘~.i.’lf2git;:e«i‘ Tune -~-~'up:s.
We can pam~’id.e factory éltlil”t{Zi§"i2fi.?(i niaintenanee
Witmrut Voi.din.g jmtit‘ 1‘na.i3.‘a.faett:re‘s warramy.

Ziafajor‘ Ct‘s2r2’it Cz;m:f.s ccegittrzci

  

 
 

   

Top I0 Ski/Is
Employers Seek

1. Communication skills
2. Honesty and integrity
3. Teamwork skills
4. Strong work ethic
5. Analytical skills
6. Flexibility and adaptability
7. Interpersonal skills
8. Motivation and initiative
9. Computer skills
l0. Detail-oriented

Visit Career Services for resume help,
practice interviewing, self-assessment
tools, and networking advice.

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREER©SERVICES

 

 

 

S TIlEiRING-TUM PHI - 6

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5,2007

sports

 

0
Men improve to 3-0 with I 61 -96 win, women drop to I -2 after losing 1 4] -12]
BY Mlchael Keenan was victorious in the two backstroke events.
SPORTS 59170“ After losing the ﬁrst relay, the Generals took four
of the next ﬁve individual events. However, Centre .
For the second time in three meets, the Washington responded by winning six of the next seven events to
and Lee swimming teams split the meet with their op— build their lead. Going into the second-to—last event,
ponent. This time, the men defeated Centre College the 200 IM, the Women trailed by 12 points. A Cen-
161-96 while the women fell by a score of 141-121_ tre victory would have effectively ended the Generals’
The men jumped out to a 15-2 lead by taking ﬁrst chances of winning the meet. Mahoney trailed going
and second place in the opening event, the 200 medley into the final length of freestyle but ﬁnished Strong to
relay, and never looked back. The Generals would win out-touch Centre’s Ana MCMurtry by 22 hundredths of
all but two events on the day. a Second.‘
“It’s a mental attitude that we talk a lot about both Mah0ney’s Win helped the women to get within sev-
in the pool during practice and outside the water,” said en points of Centre going into the ﬁnal event, the 400
sophomore Josh Gonzalez. “(Coach) Joel (Shinoﬁeld) free relay. If the Generals could take ﬁrst and third, they
often tells us that you have to keep in mind that every would win the meet by two points. However, leadoff leg
time we are racing in the pool, we are racing everybody Sophomore Sarah Simpson jumped the gun, disquali-
in the country. Swimming is about racing; every meet is fying W&L’s top relay. lt Would not haVe mattered as
an opportunity to race and you can’t pass that up,” Centre’s relay ﬁnished in a time of 3:44.48, breaking a .
The men were led by senior Will Hartman’s three in- 23-year-old pool record. With the one-two ﬁnish, Cen-
dividual victories. Hartman took gold in 100 back, 200 tre widened its lead and won the meet by 20 points.
back, and 200 IM. Paul Crook was a double winner, “The girls fought hard,” Said Gonzalez. “That Was a
touching ﬁrst in the 200 free and 500 free. Five other great meet to Watch.”
Generals won individual events and the meet concluded With the loss, the Women drop to 1-2 on the Season.
with the 400 free relay team of Crook, senior Tim Mc- The Women return to the pool this Friday evening to
Glaston, sophomore Brandon Bamds, and senior Alex Open their ODAC Season against Emory & Henry. Both
Sweet winning the ﬁnal event in a time of 3;1l_90_ teams Will travel to Pennsylvania to take on Gettysburg
The women’s meet was close the entire day. The two on Saturday.
teams split the 12 individual events, notching six vic- “We really aren’t Sure of What Gettysburg has
tories each, brought in this year and they’ve been known to have
The Generals were led by juniors Susan Mahoney their on and off years in the past,” said Gonzalez. “Be-
and Lindey Strachan, who won two events apiece, Ma- sides, we are traveling to their house so I’m sure they’ll
honey won the 100 breast and 200 IM while Strachan he ﬁred up.” ‘

vlctorles.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor
Senior Will Hartman crulses to vlctory In the 200 IM, one of hls three Indlvldual

IM ﬂag football sees
new rules changes

Some teams don ’t like new rules, but referee says
using them has been easier than expected

By Jacob Gelger
MANAGING EDITOR

Flag football has long been one of
Washington and Lee’s most popular in-
tramural sports. So Ray Ellington, W&L’s
campus recreation coordinator, knew that
making changes to this year’s IM league
would be difficult.

The biggest change is a move to link
W&L’s ﬂag football league into a national
competition between college intramural
champions. That means the winner of
W&L’s league gets to travel to the Univer-
sity of Maryland over Thanksgiving break
to compete for a spot in the national ﬂag
football championships.

The campus recreation department will
pay the winning team’s hotel and travel
costs.

But the ensuing rules changes — espe-
cially a rule that says all blocking must
be non-contact — are being questioned by
some IM participants.

Since the regional championships are
played under non-contact blocking rules,
Ellington said W&L’s winning team will
be at a major disadvantage if the league
doesn’t use the standard national rules.

But Chris Stevenson, a junior in his
second year as chairman of Phi Kappa
Sigma’s IM.program, said the new rules
are ruining W&L’s most-popu1arIM sport.
Phi Kap won last year’s football champi-
onship.

“They completely take away from the
sport of ﬂag football. You can’t even use
your hands to block on offense or de-
fense,” Stevenson said. “It takes away
all aspects of football. The game is now
just an NCAA-esque QB Option. There is
rarely an actual football play.”

Junior Jamila Seaton says refereeing
under the new rules has been easier than
she expected.

“At ﬁrst I was thinking it would be
impossible and that football was all about
contact, but the ﬁeld is so big and there is
so much passing that there really isn’t any
need for blocking,” Seaton said. “People
seem to be having more fun even though
at times the frustration of no contact sets
in.”

She said that teams haven’t always
liked the rules but haven’t been criticizing
the referees.

Another new and controversial deci-
sion is a new plan that grades each team’s
sportsmanship on a 4.0 scale. At the end
of the regular season, teams scoring below
a 3.0 won’t be allowed into the playoffs.

And if any team receives a GPA rating
of 0-1 .9, that team is immediately disqual-
iﬁed from the playoffs.

Stevenson said the GPA may sound
good in concept but is “terrible in execu-
tion.” ‘

“Most of the complaining done by
teams [is] the result of the terrible new
rules,” he said. “All of the arguing last
year was due to the competitive nature of
the sport  now the arguing is solely at
the ref to enforce the new rules, even if
both teams don’t agree with them. The refs
are paid too little to be yelled at.”

Stevenson said that he has struggled to
ﬁeld a team on some nights this year be-
cause players don’t like the new system.

He said his criticisms aren’t an attack
on Ellington and he appreciates the at-
tempts to make changes Still, he wishes
Ellington had let the IM chairs vote on the
new rules before implementing them.

Seaton thinks that the new rules will
gain acceptance as time goes by.

“I think it’s natural for us to complain
because we’re so used to doing things a
certain way, but in reality it’s not that
hard,” Seaton said. “It’s more [of a] habit
and it can be broken.”

 season
ﬁI_11Sl1€S
with loss to
Lynchburg

By Mlchael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

After defeating Bridgewater 7-0 in the ﬁrst round
of the ODAC ﬁeld hockey playoffs, the Generals
hoped to avenge their regular season overtime loss
to rival Lynchburg College. Though they would
get the chance, they would come up short again,
losing 1-0 at Lynchburg to end their season.

By virtue of being the third seed in the ODAC
playoffs, the Generals gained home ﬁeld advantage
for their opening round match against Bridgewater Col-
lege. In their ﬁnal home game of the season on Parents’
Weekend, the Generals put on an offensive barrage against the
Eagles, easily winning 7-0.

The Generals started the scoring 15 minutes into the game and pro-
ceeded to ﬁnd the net seven times in the next 45 minutes. The ﬁrst half
belonged to seniors Kendall Korte and Melissa Dolan who scored two
goals apiece to give the Generals a 4-0 lead going into half.

In the second half, the Generals came out ﬁring again as sophomore Alex
Caritis scored just 1:15 into the period. Less than three and a half minutes
later senior Kay Dyt scored to make it 6-0. Junior Louise Bance registered
the ﬁnal tally for the Generals with just over 12 minutes to play.

All three goalkeepers got playing time for the Generals in the shutout,
but only sophomore Caroline Habliston was forced to make a save.

The Generals out-shot the Eagles 27 to one, with 20 of the Gener-
als’ shots being on target. W&L also won 13 penalty corners while
giving up only four.

The game against Lynchburg was a much different story. Lynch-
burg controlled much of the play in the ﬁrst half. The Generals man-
aged only one shot and zero penalty comers to the Homet’s 15 shots M'CHAEL KEENAN / 5P°'t5 Edit”
and four penalty corners. However, senior goalie Tara Rubenstein Senior Kendall Korte Is the sec-
rose to the challenge, tallying six saves in the ﬁrst half. ond General to be selected to play In the

In the second half, the Hornets ﬁnally broke through when sopho- NFHCA DlVl5l°“ I" A"'Sta' game
more forward Allie Weir found the back of the net with 10 minutes
to play. Though the Generals won four penalty comers in the second half, they were still unable to put a shot on goal and
Lynchburg survived 1-0.

Much like the loss in the regular season, the,Generals were dominated in almost every statistical category except goals.

The Generals managed only three shots the entire game, none of which were on target, and Lynchburg goalie Sarah Cates
was not forced to make a save. The Hornets ﬁred 26 shots, nine of which were on goal. Rubenstein ﬁnished with eight saves
in the game.

With the victory, the Hornets moved on to the ODAC ﬁnals where they would later defeat EMU on Saturday 1-0.

The loss ends the season for the team but senior Kendall Korte will continue for one more game as she was selected to play
in the 2007 National Field Hockey Coaches Association (NF HCA) Division III All-Star game on Nov. 17 at Ursinus College.
Korte leads the team in assists with ﬁve and is second on the team with ﬁve goals. ' b

   
   
 
 
 
 
   

 

   

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2007

sports

7 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

 

~,. By Russ Weems

 

STAFF WRITER

The improbable run to an
ODAC title fell short Saturday
night for the men’s soccer team as
they fell to Roanoke 2-0.

Picked in the preseason to ﬁn-
ish fourth in the conference, the
team led the league standings for
most of the season and ﬁnished in
a tie for second place.

On Friday, the Generals took
on the Hampden-Sydney Tigers at
Virginia Wesleyan College in the
semiﬁnals of the ODAC men’s
soccer tournament. The game

y_ started quickly as Hampden-Syd-

ney’s Matt Swaney scored off of a
corner kick taken by Jason Powell
in the 10th minute.

This early goal did not shake
the Generals. They kept battling
and tied the game when senior
midﬁelder Travis Short put one
past Hampden-Sydney goalie
John Robert Pyler in the 40th
minute. The game went to half-
time tied 1-1.

The second half started as
quickly as the ﬁrst had. A Hamp-
den-Sydney foul in the penalty
box in the 47th minute gave the

Generals a penalty kick. The in-
tense game featured six yellow
cards and 27 fouls in total.

Junior defender Fletcher Mc-
Craw seized the opportunity and
buried the PK in the back of the
net to give the Generals the lead.
The Generals played tough de-
fense for the rest of the game and
W&L went on to the 2-1 victory.

In the end, the Generals had
outshot the Tigers 10-8, whereas
Hampden-Sydney had the comer
kick edge 10-2.

Senior goaltender Ted Sheedy
provided three saves in the vic-

 

MIHAEL KEENN Sports ditor

Senior Travis Short fires a shot into the back of the net to give the Generals a 1-0 lead against Lynchburg in the opening round of the ODAC playoffs. Senlor Josh Dodds
headed in a rebound minutes later to add an insurance goal for the team. Dodds finished the season with 10 goals, while Short sent five into the back of the net.

Men roll through early rounds but came up a little short against Roanoke in ODA C ﬁnal

toiy. The win gave the Gene1jal,s_
their 12th victory of the season

and an opportunity to play in
the ODAC ﬁnal for the ﬁrst time
since 2003. The Generals were
enthusiastic about their win and
looking forward to the champion-
ship game.

On Saturday evening, the
Generals faced the fourth seed
Roanoke Maroons in the ODAC’s
ﬁnal game at Virginia Wesleyan’s
Foster Field. Roanoke came out
strong and registered an early
score in the fourth minute as mid-
ﬁelder Shaman Douglas got one

. past Sheedy-.

 \, After the goal, the scoring set-
tled down a bit. The score stayed
1-0 for the majority of the game
until Roanoke added another one
in the 70“‘ minute when Kayvon
Sarmadi scored unassisted.

The Generals battled hard
in the second half but could not
beat Roanoke’s goaltender Austin
Rose, who had ﬁve saves for a
clean sheet. Despite the 2-0 score,
shots and comers were relatively
even. The Generals had 17 fouls
and three yellow cards to the Ma-
roons’ nine fouls and one yellow

card.. . .. .. h - V
gm-....Sheedy provided tWo_sa_ves for
the Generals. Despite the loss, the
team is proud of their season and
their effort in the second half of
the game. They are hoping for an
at-large bid in the national tour-
nament. They ended the ODAC
tournament with a 12-3-3 record.
The date of the Generals’ next
game is unknown. They will have
to wait to see if they will get an
at-large bid to the NCAA Tourna-
ment. The selection process took
place after the Phi went to press.

Women fall to Roanoke in ODAC semi-ﬁnals

Generals beat EMU but lose to

the ODAC playoffs.

t

 

LENORRA NUNNELY/ Staff Photographer

Senior Haley Bunting challenges an EMU player for the ball in W&L’s 3-1 victory in the firstround of

Roanoke for a second time this year

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

The women’s soccer team went 1-1 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
tournament this past week, ending their
hopes of an ODAC title.

Four days after defeating Eastern Men-
nonite 3-1 in the regular season ﬁnale, the
two teams met in the ﬁrst round of the
conference tournament. This was the 19th-
straight season that W&L advanced to the
tournament.

The game was played at home on Watt
ﬁeld this time. The Generals asserted
themselves early by putting pressure on
Eastern Mennonite at the outset. W&L
controlled the ball on the Royals’ side of
the ﬁeld for a majority of the ﬁrst half.

In the 21 st minute, Anne Van Devender
broke free from the defense and notched
her 15th goal of the season. Just 13 min-
utes later, Roz Klann scored an unassisted
goal, improving the score to 2-0. The Gen-
erals took this 2-0 lead into halftime.

W&L came out in the second half the
same way they started in the ﬁrst half,
controlling the ball on the opponents’ side
of the ﬁeld. Under 15 minutes into the
second half, Martha Caulkins added in an-
other goal off of a pass from Katie Kern.
From then on, the team did not look back.

Eastern Mennonite tightened the con-
test by scoring a goal with 10 minutes to
play. However, it was not enough as the
Generals rolled past Eastern Mennonite
3-1 and into the semi-ﬁnals of the touma-
ment.

W&L amassed a staggering 36 shots
in the match compared to four by Eastern
Mennonite.

The Generals then traveled to face ri-
val Roanoke in a game where the winner
would advance to the conference champi-

onship. The two teams played each other
less than two weeks ago in a grueling
double overtime match in which Roanoke
won 2-1. W&L had revenge on its mind
this time. ,

Once again, the importance of the
game was matched by the intensity ex-
erted on the ﬁeld. Each team countered the
other by attempting to go down the ﬁeld
and score, but the teams came up empty
in the extremely physical ﬁrst half. Each
team committed ﬁve fouls in the ﬁrst half
and W&L ended up with two yellow cards
in the outing.

The scoring drought quickly ended
when a ﬂurry of goals came early in the
second half. In the 54th minute, Roa-
noke’s Kristen McCoy knocked in a shot
off of a cross from Meredith Grunewald.
Four minutes later, W&L’s Shana Oltmans
knotted the game at 1-1 after taking a shot
that deﬂected off the crossbar and went
into the back of the net.

“Marisa [Van Brunt] took a great free
kick, and I was able to ﬂick it on behind
me, and then the ball ended up popping
back out to me and I was able to chest it
and half volley it into the goal,” said Olt-
mans of the goal. “I was ecstatic after we
scored, and I deﬁnitely thought we were
going to have the momentum and score a
few more.”

However, momentum immediately
shifted back toward the Maroons as Jes-
sica Joyner put in a rebound off of a shot
deﬂected by the Generals defense at 61 :08.
This goal turned out to be the game win-
ner as Roanoke quashed W&L’s goal of an
ODAC title.

The soccer team must now wait for the
announcement of whether they will re-
cieve an at-large bid to the NCAA Touma-
ment, which was unknown when the Phi
went to press.

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2007

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 
    

Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT
a
Football °:e"|::°
1:00 mm.
"3' vs Bryn
Women’: E&H and Mail" &
ls“""""""‘ sac Gettysburg
7:00 p''“' 2:00 p.m.
vs
Mon,‘ Gettysburg
  p."I.
Men. and B: th teams f uund out at
w°|'ﬂ°"'5 :tnday nlgtf If they NCAM???
soccer re lved an at-large bld TBA
at
ivoueybali ::"°“‘l
re one s
TBA
at
Women's "CM
xc Regionals
Nov. 17
at
lnlIon’s xc "CM
Regionals
Nov. 17
Men.’ at Drew University
basket- t|:“'":::‘
ov.
ball
Women's
vs
ba‘k°t' Alvernla
ha" Nov. 17

 

numbers
7

Consecuitve ODAC titles for the women’s volleyball team. The title is

the 10th in W&L history, all of them since 1997.

0

1
Games lost in the ODAC Tournament by the women's volleyball team.
The generals swept their way through the tournament, defeating Emo-

ry and Henry, Randolph-Macon and Bridgewater by 3-0 scores.

6-0

The football team’s record when senior Ahbinav Kapur shows up in
body paint. With the win against Bridgewater on Parents’ Weekend

Kapur capped an undefeated career as a W&L student.

23:48.80

Sophomore Kat Te|feyan’s winning time in the ODAC championship six

kilometer cross country race.-

box

“It's a mental attitude that we talk a lot about

 

‘both in the pool during practice and outside the

water. Joel often tells us that you have to keep in
mind that every time we are racing in the pool we 4
are racing everybody in the country. Swimming

is about racing, every meet is an opportunity to
race and you can’t pass that up.  You can’t
swim fast at a meet if you don’t train fast. Finally,
every swim at every meet is a step towards what
we hope to accomplish at the end of our season,
they are benchmarks against which we can mea-
sure our progress, so there's always the aspect of
looking forward which helps to focus you.”

Sophomore swlmmer Josh Gonzalez

“Honestly, this win hasn’t even hit me yet. I can’t
wait to talk to everybody back home. This is deﬁ-
nitely bigger than just one football game.”

Navy linebacker Matt Wlmsatt after hls team broke a 43-game losing
streak to Notre Dame wlth a 46-44 victory in triple overtlme. Navy’s last
vlctory came In 1963 when the team was a natlonal powerhouse.

STACY DOORNBOS / Contributing Photographer

The men’s and women’s cross country teams celebrate their fourth consecutive ODAC titles. This is the
first time either cross country team has won four titles in a row.

Two dynasties roll on

Men and women Sweep ODAC cross country meet

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams have truly
become dynasties in the conference after
winning the ODAC Championships for
a fourth year in a row. Both teams took
control of the course and advantage of the
home ﬁeld as the men ﬁnished ﬁrst out of
nine teams and the women took ﬁrst by
a very slim one point over second-place
Roanoke.

“Winning a fourth ODAC title was like
dancing with your eldest daughter on her
wedding day and hearing her whisper ‘I
love you daddy’ into your ear,” said senior
and captain Andrew F riski.

The men’s team was led by junior Mi-
chael Welsh who ﬁnished second in a time
of 27:56.35, while senior and captain Tom
Brower took‘ third, crossing the ﬁnish at
28:03.97. Juniors Vance Berry and Alex
Jackson, and Friski ﬁnished sixth, thir-
teenth, and fourteenth, respectively. Their
respective times were 28:33.19, 29:26.50,
and 29:36.98.

Jackson described the highlight of the
day.“The best part of the day was the mo-
ment Friski and myself ﬁnished the race
and everyone went absolutely nuts. There
was an indescribable energy in the air when
everyone realized that we had defended our
title. Hugs were given out generously.”

Brower agreed. “I couldn’t have asked

for anything more perfect than Saturday.
It was a very emotional day between how
well the race went personally, how well
the team ran, and having my parents there.
Having spent four years running for W&L
and never letting the ODAC title leave
Lexington is a very special thing, some-
thing I’ll always remember.”

Meanwhile, the women were led by
sophomore Kat Telfcyan and junior Becca
Taylor, who took ﬁrst and second respec-
tively with times of23:-48.80 and 24:09.25.
Junior Elizabeth Webb ﬁnished in a time of
24:40.80 to take sixth. Freshmen Christine
Ballistreri and Katherine Fenwick took
11”‘ and 13"‘ with times of 25:27.24 and
25:34.59, respectively. Sophomore Doro-
thy Todd rounded out the leaders by ﬁnish-
ing 14"‘ with a time of 25:37.74.

Because of her win, Telfeyan earned
ODAC women’s cross country Runner of
the Year honors.

Telfeyan commented, “Personally I
was very excited to win the race; it was the
ﬁrst time I had won a cross country meet.
1 think we all knew how close it would be
with Roanoke and that every point counts
and it helped knowing that every one of
us was going to put everything into that
race.”

Webb spoke about the emotions of the
day for the women. “I still haven’t come
down from cloud nine. 1 think we’re all
still in shock that we actually pulled off a
fourth victory and by just one point. After

Roanoke defeated us at our home invite
earlier this season, we were pretty disap-
pointed, but we refocused and continued to

train hard. We all knew that the victory in’

October would be the one that would mat-
ter. By the time ODACs rolled around, we
were ready. Everyone on the team contrib-
uted that day. 1 still get chills thinking that
if any one of us had let another Maroon
jersey slip by, we would have come in sec-
ond. The close races are the ones that you
remember forever.”

Brower was named the ODAC men’s
cross country Scholar-Athlete of the Year
for the second-straight year and Coach
John Tucker was named the ODAC men’s
cross country Coach of the Year for the
sixth time in his 19 seasons here at W&L.

Taylor was named the ODAC women’s
cross country Scholar-Athlete of the Year
for the second straight year and Coach Kris
Hoey was selected the ODAC women’s
cross country Coach of the Year for the
fourth time in her ﬁve seasons at W&L.

The teams will try to advance to Na-
tionals on Nov. 10 at the NCAA Regional
in Williamsburg.

An enthusiastic and optimistic Todd
commented, “We are so excited about the
opportunity to run at Regionals and are re-
ally looking forward to shaking things up
at the race! A lot of teams have underes-
timated us this season... I think that they
are going to be in for quite a surprise come
Saturday!”

Football extends win streak to three

Team snaps seven game loosing streak to Bridgewater in ﬁnal home game

By Brian Devlne
STAFF WRITER

Wilson Field has seen a lot. Since its
construction in the ﬁrst decade of the 20th
century, Washington and Lee football has
seen highs— a trip to the 1951 Gator Bowl-
and lows- a cheating scandal and removal
from NCAA D-I two years later. Now, a
century after students clamored for a per-
manent home to play their favorite sport,
Wilson Field has seen its ﬁnal match.

It was the Parents’ Weekend football
game, an annual tradition of gridiron in
the cool October air. The Generals, fresh
off shutting down Guilford’s top-ranked
offense, faced the Bridgewater Eagles,
ranked 19th in the country.

It would be almost a disservice to Wil-
son Field for W&L to lose its ﬁnal game to
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference’s
traditional doorrnat, though the Eagles
have now become one of the conference’s
powers. The elements for a classic were
all there - a full stadium, a raucous crowd,
and the knowledge that this game would
be the last at the grand old ground.

Playing better than they had all season,
the Generals delivered. The Blue Menace
had another outstanding defensive perfor-
mance, holding Bridgewater to 212 yards
of total offense and just 14 points, the Ea-
gles’ lowest point total of the season.

Safety Kyle Luby again led the Gener-
als with 11 tackles, and the visitors’ star
running back Phillip Carter had only 103
yards rushing. The Generals were led by
Stuart Sitterson, who racked up his third
consecutive 100-yard game, totaling 216

all-purpose yards, including 103 on the
ground.

The Blue Menace looked to be in trou-
ble early on when Carter ran roughshod
over the hosts on the visitors’ ﬁrst series,
scoring a touchdown just 4:12 into the
contest. But Luby and his cohorts started
closing the gaps and Carter was not to see
the end zone again.

The Generals started their rally with
two touchdowns at the end of the ﬁrst
half, ﬁrst on a 22-yard pass from R]. Var-
ner to Ty Parrino and then a two-yard con-
nection from Vamer to Billy Murray with
30 seconds remaining. Mark Snoddy then
kicked a ﬁeld goal in the third quarter to
give the home side a 17-7 lead.

With Carter’s success limited, the Ea-
gles turned to the air in the second half.
Bridgewater quarterback Jeff Highﬁll
pulled his squad within three points but
the Generals’ defense held strong to pre-
serve the win.

As soon as the ﬁnal whistle blew, the
thousand of fans left Wilson Field in its
current conﬁguration for the last time.
Two days later construction crews started
dismantling the aging metal grandstand
and the Blue-and-White started looking
toward their next conference game, on
Saturday at Emory & I-Iemy.

A loss at E&H would discount the
Boys in Blue from any chance at the
ODAC title. But Jack Martin, largely ab-
sent from the Parents’ Weekend victory,
was not about to let that happen. Martin

hauled in a 61-yard touchdown pass from
Vamer with 67 seconds remaining to win
the game by the same scoreline, 17-14. In
the remaining time the Menace forced the
Wasps to turn the ball over on downs and
the win was preserved.

Sitterson was again his dynamic self,
recording a career-high 100 yards on the
ground in addition to 89 return yards and
eight receiving yards. Vamer had one of
his best games, turning in 193 yards pass-
ing. Tommy Matteo recorded nine tackles
and Bryant Fulk had eight plus one inter-
ception.

Even with the win, though, the Gener-
als fell short of their goal of returning to
the postseason. Randolph-Macon’s Sat-
urday victory over Bridgewater left them
atop the ODAC-table with a 5-0 confer-
ence record with one game to play. Sitting
third with two losses, the Generals cannot
ﬁnish any higher than second.

The conference title and its automatic 1

playoff berth will be decided next Satur-
day in suburban Richmond when R-MC
hosts second-placed Hampden-Sydney.
The Generals, ﬁnished with their confer-
ence schedule, face Camegie-Mellon to
ﬁnish their season.

It will be nine frantic months before
the Generals start another season at a new,
more modern stadium for a football pro-
gram that once again has taken hold of the
support of the university’s sports fans.

9

 

