  

 

 
 
  

Ladies, don’t hold your breath this Thursday...
Crighton Allen is here to explain whythe boys on

i 0PlNlONS / Page 3

WASHIN LEE UNIVERSITY

THE R

 
 

UM PHI.

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, zoos 3 Y 1' H ‘E 3 T U D ,'

S AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXI, NUMBER 13

JESS SHAW / News Editor

Safety workers clear re-
mains of a large tree that
Sunday winds knocked
down on Jackson Avenue.
Lexington residents expe-
rienced sporadic power
outages Sunday morning
and afternoon (above).
Firetrucks respond to a
call that a bus carrying
the women’s swim team
caught fire upon return to
campus (left). '

JACOB GEIGER / Managing Editor

 

    

Love Your
Body Week to
kick off today

Organizations address women is
health and body image issues

By Grace Wang
ASSISTANT. NEWS EDITOR

It will not be long before eerie mannequins appear around cam-
pus holding large signs with statistics and bold statements. Maga-
zine cut-outs of supennodels will adorn mirrors in the Commons,
and normally put—together female students will forgo make-up,
traveling to class in their pajamas.

Surprisingly, these odd occurrences share a common theme,
serving as in-your-face reminders to W&L women to respect and
cherish their God-given bodies. They are merely a sample of
events to educate and shock W&L students during the ﬁrst-ever
celebration of Love Your Body Week.

Love Your Body Day is a campaign started by the National
Organization for Women (NOW), which aims to shed light on cru-
cial issues plaguing young women such as eating disorders, body
loathing, sexual health, and addiction to drugs and alcohol. By us-
ing real statistics, images, and videos, Love Your Body Day hopes
to educate women and men and convey that self-esteem is critical
to those living in a society of unrealistic expectations fueled by
Hollywood and the fashion, cosmetics and diet industries. W&L
chose to expand Love Your Body Day into a week-long event.

As a high school student, Jackie Burns, current treasurer of
Knowledge Empowering Women Leaders (KEWL), experienced
an event broadcasting similar themes of female empowerment.
She was moved and inspired. Upon learning that body image
problems affect a greater percentage of women on the W&L cam-
pus than on other college campuses in the nation, Burns suggested
that W&L start acknowledging this sobering statistic.

She said, “It doesn’t take long for a new student on campus
to realize W&L has a culture all its own — dressing up for classes
and football games, etc. Not that tradition or presentation is a bad
thing, but when W&L has signiﬁcantly higher rates of eating dis-
orders than the average college campus, then I believe the issue
deserves closer attention.”

She broached the idea during a KEWL meeting, suggesting
that W&L celebrate natural femininity in an entire week of events
and activities.

In December 2007, initial planning for Love Your Body Week
event began. Enthusiasm was abundant among KEWL members,
leading to numerous ideas about how best to spread the message
at W&L. '

Prepared to address issues ranging from reproductive health to
eating disorders, KEWL enlisted additional help from Lifestyle
Information for Everyone (LIFE), and W&L Students for Choice.
Love Your Body Week is now a collaborative effort among the
three organizations.

Love Your Body Week will kick off today with a fundraising
drive of cosmetic and personal hygiene items to beneﬁt women re-
ceiving aid and shelter from Project Horizon, a local organization
for victims of domestic, dating, and sexual violence. Organized
by sophomore Brooke Reidy, the drive will take place all week
in the Commons. In addition, a table with information regarding
NOW, the Love Your Body campaign, and other related topics

See “Body Image” on page 2

  Gender relations: Students speak up

Day of Dialogue fuels discussion, creates steps of action for change on campus

applauded Sayre’s efforts, others gender-related scenarios. Stu- “The best possible thing the

. By Allison Chopin

sleep. It’s how they interact,” said

they highly doubt that students

 

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Saturday’s “Day of Dialogue,”
presented by the Panhellenic
Council and the Interfratemity
Council, gave students a chance
to voice their opinions and create
steps of action to improve an is-
sue pertinent to the student body:
gender relations.

New sorority and fraternity
members were present at the
event, as were several upperclass-
men. Incoming Panhellenic pres-
ident Jackie DiBiasie opened the
day with a speech in Lee Chapel.
She said that the topic was chosen
based on surveys from last year’s
Day of Dialogue. “It’s easy to see
that gender relations, at least on
our campus, is a problem,” DiBi-
asie informed students gathered
in Lee Chapel.

Dr. Jennifer Sayre of Univer-
sity Counseling also addressed
the students, initiating a open dis-
cussion on the subject of “hook-
ing up.” While some students

did not take the discussion seri-
ously.

“I think Dr. Sayre was really
brave to put up with the people
yelling out comments,” said
Yinghao Long, a senior member
of Pi Beta Phi. “Some of the stu-
dents were less respectful than
they should have been.”

Senior Nelson Bunn also ad-
dressed the crowd. He believes
that gender relations constitute
the day-to—day life of every col-
lege student across the nation.
Thus, more attention should be
dedicated to forming healthy rela-
tions. “We have come a long way,
but we have a very long way to
go,” Bunn said.

“I thought he was direct,” said
senior Bryant Fulk, a member
of Pi Kappa Phi, in response to
Bunn’s speech. “[What he said]
is something both genders should
be concerned about.”

The speeches were followed
by small group discussions, in
which students discussed various

dents also brainstormed to create
potential action plans to improve
the status of gender relations at
W&L in the future.

“I thought the dialogue in the
discussions was very good. A lot
of good ideas came from it,” said
junior Sarah Morris, a member of

school could do is to build a new,
larger dining hall and allow the
upperclassmen to eat together
like the freshmen do,” said Mar-
shall Olszewski, a freshman inde-
pendent. »
Some people also suggested
that the sororities and fratemi-

“People are getting worked up and passionate

about this cause, but tonight they will go out

and perpetuate the cycle by refusing to interact

[with the opposite sex] unless they ’re drunk. ”

Robert Wason, Sigma Phi Epsilon new member

Pi Beta Phi.

Several students shared their
thoughts on what steps should be
taken. Many suggested that the
dining options for Greek students
should be altered to allow Greek
men and women to eat together.

ties could share occasional meals
with each other, such as Friday
night dinners at the houses.
Others, however, disagreed
and feel that further changes will
need to be made. “It doesn’t have
to do with where people eat and

Robert Wason, a freshman and
new member of Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon.

Still, other students believe the
problem lies even deeper. Some
believe that the problem rests in
the structure of the Greek system
and the social pressures it entails.

“The fraternities are more in
control of the social scene than I
realized,” said freshman Michele
Farquharson, a new member of
Kappa Alpha Theta. “I didn’t
even think about the fact that we
only go to parties hosted by guys.
The guys don’t want to leave their
comfort zone, but they ask the
girls to do that every weekend.”

The issues caused by alcohol
only seem to exacerbate the prob-
lem. “Real relationships can’t be
based on people you only talk to
when you’re drunk,” said fresh-
man Katie Blackburn, a new
member of Chi Omega.

Unfortunately, although some
students believe the Day of Dia-
logue carried a noble message,

will be motivated enough to
make changes. “People are get-
ting worked up and passionate
about this cause, but tonight they
will go out and perpetuate the
cycle by refusing to interact [with
the opposite sex] unless they’re
drunk,” said Wason.

Olszewski pointed out that the
issue rests on the shoulders of
both genders. “I hear girls saying
they want to go out and hook up
with someone as much as I hear
guys say it,” he said.

Another male student said,
“All white males are accused of
being predators, and that’s unfair
to guys.”

Most students seem to recog-
nize that the students themselves
are at the heart of this issue.

“I don’t think it’s just the re-
sponsibility of the Greek commu-
nity,” said sophomore Chi Omega
Clara McClenon. “It is up to indi-
viduals to create more respectful
friendships.”

  

2 - THE RING-TUM ‘Pin -~ — -, &,EEUNwE3sny

LEXINGTON. VA 24450

H:B 1 2 2353

BWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2001

 

enovations to transform campus

   

Work begins on Wilson Field and campus buildings as part of Strategic Plan to keep W&L competitive ~

Construction work on Wilson Field begins to transform campus and constitutes part of W&L’s

 

JACOB GEIGER/MANAGING EDITOR

strategic plan to prepare W&L for the 21st century. Other notable changes will Include a
renovation of the Colonnade, a transformation of Leyburn Library, an expansion and rebuild-
ing of underclassmen housing, and the building of a center for Jewish life.

“Little Rock Nine” Civil 

Rights activist to speak t  day

Roberts and eight others faced rioters at integrated schciol*.in ._ . 

By Wes O'Dell
sun warren

Dr. Terrence Roberts, a participant in one of the
Civil Rights Movementfs most important historical
events, will speak in Lee Chapel tonight at 7:00.

P Roberts, a member of the “Litt1e‘R_oclg;lf«{ine,” was
one of nine black students that crossed the color line to
attend a newly desegrcgated high school in Arkansas
in 1959. They did so under the protection of the 101“

“Nine brave African—/lmerican stu-
dents demonstrated the importance
of equal opportunity by becoming
A the central focus of the 195 7 at-

tempt to desegregate public schools
in Little Rock... We admire [Dr
Roberts] _because he was part of
that team. The circumstances that
the students experienced were bi-

zarre and mean.” ,
Dr. Ted Detaney, History Department chair

Airborne Division of the United States Army, a federal
unit sent in by then-President Dwight Eisenhower to
defend the students from violent rioters.

Arkansas’s governor at the time, segregationist Or-
val Faubus, had previously deployed his own National
Guard troops to keep the students out.

, Dr. Roberts’s visit is sponsored by the Multicultural
Student Association, Contact Committee, Campus Ac-
tivities, the African-American Studies Program and

‘”i'isnb~e:r Ridge Auto {fainter
iii??? VZ~1llt3f§,*' ililie ,

‘l..cxiirgton, VA. Edélﬁlil
{E-=tfl_}-dtiéé-19?}?

 

i:<3§‘t:‘lf:{il and l)orne::st‘ic l~?.t':pa:rs

the Office of Multicultural iixffairsg  A T ~ 
“We chose to invite Dr. Roberts to W&L because.
this past September was the 50-year anniversaryof

when he and eight other students integrated Central I

High School in Little )R(ock,MArkansas,”g said senior,
Melissa Poorman, presidentof ’ 

She added,‘*"wel"t"ievéd"hat someoiié  . '
Roberts, a member of the Little Rock Nine,jwou1d ,

surely share great insight into race relations today." 7

Onyx, “the all-inclusive black student organiza- 
tion,” is designed. to provide “support and a network}
for the exchange of ideas pertinent to the black/Afri-"Tb 1

can—American community,” said Poorman. . *

The Little Rock Nine played a‘ notable and intlu~' ’
ential role in" the Civil Rights Movement. Dr. Tedf .
Delaney, chairman of the History .Department, said, f 7
“Nine brave African~American students demonstrated , V
the importance of equal opportunity by becoming they‘ _
central focus of the 1957 attempt to desegregate public ,

schools in Little Rock.”

“The black students endured violence even while , ‘
under the protection of federal troops sent in by Presi- 2 _

dent Eisenhower,” he added.

DeLaney cautions us, however,,to rememberitlie: .0
other eight students along with Dr. Roberts, all spe~ : ,
cially chosen for this historic attempt to desegregate. C 

“[The Little Rock Nine} must beviewcd as a unit. 
They were a team. We admire [Dr. Roberts} because ‘
he was part of that team. The circumstances that the; ; *

students experienced were bizarre and mean.” A

Most of the Little Rock Nine never graduated from 5 
the high school they attended under guard, as the Little ' T
Rock School Board shut down its three high schools ’i V
the following year in a lasvditch effort to fight deseg—’ ' .

rcgation efforts.

Dr. Roberts went on to eiarn_aPi1.D. inilésychology ._‘.:1f
and is now the chair of the Masters program  psye‘ I

chology at Antioch University in Los Angeles.

Poorman hopes students will comc.outto_hear -died: 
talk. She said, “He is literally a part of the history that ; ?_j.f
we read about in class. We’ve learned about the7-strtig- T
gles during the Civil Rights Era, and I think this is 7
great opportunity to learn from someone who helped, 

 

By Dane Davls
STAFF WRITER

The future look of the University is beginning to take hold at Wilson Field. As students are
well aware, over the last few months Wilson Field, the University’s cherished football stadium,
has started to receive a major faceliﬁ. Beginning at the end of the 2007 football season, Wilson
Field is undergoing a three phase redevelopment.

Phase I of the project includes new horne stands for roughly 3,000 spectators and a new
press box. Phase 11 includes the installation of ﬁeld turf, lights and a new track. Phase III will
include landscaping and visitor seating for 500 spectators.

The ﬁeld is expected to reopen by the 2008 football season.

Initially consisting of a main athletic ﬁeld and a small set of bleachers, Wilson Field was
later renovated in 1924 to include a 3,000 seat stadium. Expanded in 1929, Wilson Field is one

of the largest stadiums in Division III football.

The renovations are just the ﬁrst part of the University’s Strategic Plan. Unveiled last year,
the Strategic Plan’s goal is to prepare Washington and Lee University for the 21st century by
improving academics,‘ student life, and the buildings on campus. The work on Wilson Field is
the ﬁrst among many renovations planned for the physical plan of the university. Other im-
provements and refurbishments planned include:

- Renovation of the Colonnade, including DuPont Hall

- Reconﬁguration of Lewis Hall (law school)

- Transformation of Leyburn Library

- . Expansion and rebuilding of underclassmen housing

- Building of a center for Jewish Life
- Renovation of Doremus Gym

Students have had to cope with the closing of the Cadaver Bridge, but with construction oc-
curring around the frequently walked pathway to the sorority houses, safety was an issue. With
the planned construction, this will likely be the ﬁrst of many adjustments made to students’

daily lives.

Reinventing body image at W&L

continued from page number 1

Body Image in the Media Day, chaired
by sophomore Hillary Strasser, will fall on
Tuesday and employ a multimedia approach
in depicting the media’s negative and unreal-
istic portrayal of women.

Real-life advertisements with words and
images derogatory to women will be post-

nut ‘in: «

It doesn ’t take long for a new
student on campus to realize
W&L has a culture all its own
— dressing up for classes and

football games, etc. Not that
tradition or presentation is

a bad thing, but when W&L
has signiﬁcantly higher rates,
‘of eating disorders than the
average college campus, then
I believe the issue deserves
closer attention

Jackle Burns, KEWL treasurer
 

ed around campus. Phrases such as “super
skinny” used merely to advertise a bottle of
shampoo will be emphasized in order to il-
lustrate our society’s obsession with weight
and the “ideal body.” Magazine cut-outs of
the “ideal woman” will cover mirrors around
the Commons to receive maximum viewer-
ship. Lastly, a screen in the Commons will
play videos such as the Dove commercial,
“Transformation,” which shows the alarming
degree to which Photoshop is used to reduce
women to their body parts and ﬂaws. The

commercial offers food for thought, saying,.
“No wonder our perception of beauty is dis-
torted.”

“Hump” Day, scheduled for Wednesday,
will focus on sexual health and well-being.
Chaired by junior Lisa Reppell, President of
W&L Students for Choice, Hump Day will
feature informative pamphlets on how to
maintain reproductive health and a talk by
campus physician Dr. Jane Horton. V

taking care of your reproductive health. With
that in mind Students for Choice will be cc-
hosting Wednesday of Love Your Body Week
and focusing on safe sex — including contra-
ceptive access, sexual assault prevention and
more.” .

The other days of Love Your Body Week
include “Indulgence Day,” chaired by senior
Georgia Gilroy, during which female students
are encouraged to enjoy ice cream sundaes
in the Commons without counting calories
or worrying about dieting. In addition, fe-
male students can help to make a statement
by going to class without.their usual layers
of make-up.

Overall, Regina Mills, President of
KEWL, believes Love Your Body Week will
be a great success. She is particularly proud
of the enthusiastic and generous involvement
of KEWL, LIFE, and W&L Students for
Choice.

She said, “I think Love Your Body Week
could be an annual event that can focus on
more than just the topics that we have chosen
for this year. At the very least, it will open‘
peoples’ eyes to the pressure that women are
under [at W&L] and around the country.”

Burns agrees. “Bottom line, enjoy your-
self and treat your body well. Size, aﬁer
all, is trivial in the grand scheme of things.
There are much more important and fulﬁlling
things to occupy yourself with -- your waist
is a terrible thing to mind.”

 Reppellsaid, -‘_-‘Part of lovingryour body lS‘. -- ~ A

{flit clrmzgts and lcube, .2“-\.,>"{‘.“,. if -:::1r":p'r:ter E;.’lias;:

  

i3‘r2ci,it'2jeClio1": ‘fﬁeryiizc, "i"r:i'lfi.::;.l"niss. in E~§<;:rx-it::;r.
Eioriiiirit E}7luz~;h, lxzlinor and §‘t='i;:i§ni' ’l"‘u1'i=: ~r.z;,ji;.»;.

‘;‘r':;% can provi_de :i:in;.I’oi‘y 2'lttil"-a(>:’i;%.’.3Z?rl;l m.~:i%:rar.c;:na;':r::;:
«.téi%z:;ia.‘:t void~i.1-rg yours? :n3anni3».ictui'e“a ‘i."»“tLl.l’”§”$I*1i:ll‘«’,

 

     

shape history.” ,9 I
’ 0
Let's Make Up 0
Lcocingtows very own
cosmetic and skincare boutique 7 . @/ ’
featuring: ‘

Bare Minerals '

/‘x
FINE LINGEREE

The Balm Sugar Cosmetics
Dr. Hauschka
MD Formulations Dr. N. V. Perricone

21 W. Nelson Street

3 West Nelson Street _
Lexington I-exmgton
540 464 3900 540 463 6963

Open: Monday — Saturday Open: Monday - Saturday

 

   

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2008

pinions

 

Blame the Y chromosome

Girls, don ’t get your hopes too high for Valentine s Day, we ’re not Noah Calhoun

By Crlghton Allen
s TA F r w R IT E R

. Ladies, as you are all doubtlessly aware,
we are less than a week from the BIG DAY,
yes, Valentine’s Day.

If you have a signiﬁcant other and are anx-
iously waiting for that special something from
the special someone, I’ll get back to you in a
minute.

For those of you who have no one special
to take you out that night, give me a call. Seri-
ously.

For the last two months, I have been on
the phone every day with my life coach, the
world’s foremost love and relationship expert,
the lovely Tila Tequila. Tila and I have made

ig plans for the 14th, and the lucky one who
calls me ﬁrst will be treated to una belle nota.

That’s right, girls, I do speak Italian.

And in case you were wondering, Tila told
me that if she could do it all over again, she
would have picked Dani.

But for you ladies who do have a boyfriend,
I have a quick history lesson for you.

The guy who got the whole Valentine’s
Day ball rolling was a Roman Bishop during
the later part of the third century who was sav-
agely beaten and beheaded in 269 for giving
aid and comfort to early Christians during per-
secutions of the Emperor Claudius II.

 

editorial

Take that into consideration before you
default to the patented “nothing’s the matter”
pout when your boyfriend drops the ball and
shatters the dreamy fantasies you concoct in
your Notebook-polluted minds.

Let’s face it: most guys aren’t Noah Cal-
houn.

We aren’t going to restore an old house and

For those of you who
have no one special to
take you out that night,
give me a call. Seriously.

paint it white with blue shutters and set aside a
special room with a view for your painting.

Heck, we are lucky if on Feb. 13, we man-
age to ﬁnd something, anything that can score
us enough brownie points to make up for our
“totally ruining your night” with our refusal to
dress up like Barney the Dinosaur for Famous
Lovers.

Since you took the history lesson so pa-
tiently, I’ll let you in on a secret: If we kill

your Valentine’s Day buzz, it’s not our fault.
No, really.

It’s our darn Y chromosome; just when we
have mustered enough effort to care and put
forth a real effort for you, our genes kick in
and make us revert to a store-bought card and
a pack of chocolates.

So please, show a little sympathy; very few
guys can win the ﬁght against biology.

Fellas, the key to a successful Valentine’s
Day is not making your lady happy; oh no, it’s
preserving your dignity. ,

I’ve had buddies pull out ideas for Valen-
tine’s Day that would make Allie Hamilton
gag (yes, I know, another Notebook refer-
ence.) Things like a teddy bear sprayed in their
cologne or rose petals scattered on her bed.

My advice, boys, don’t be those guys.

I’d rather endure a lifetime of Playfair (re-
member that nugget of joy from freshman 0-
Week?) than pull out something like the teddy
bear. But after all, I did hire Tila Tequila to
help me get the girl I’m after, so what do I
know?

Guys, just make sure you at least buy the
girl dinner when you take her to the Bistro, and
ladies, even if the guy buys you milk chocolate
when he knows well and good you’re lactose
intolerant, at least try to smile, please.

Remember, it’s not his fault.

  Dialogue on bizarre relations

Get serious about date rape and sexual assualt to keep the Greek system alive

. Members of Washington and Lee’s Greek
community got together Saturdayfor Day of

Dialogue, and talked , about gender. Jielations. *

Panhellenic and the Interfratemity Council
picked a timely topic, but are most W&L stu-
dents even listening? We’re going to step out
on a limb and assume that the student who
showed up drunk missed most of the mes-
sage.

During the past year, the increasing gap be-
tween Greek leadership and normal members
has been growing, especially in fraternity life.

.:s Panhel and the IFC begin designing an am-
itious Greek vision plan, that gap may grow
into a complete rupture.

The Greek vision plan lays out a host of
problems that student leaders — and admin-
istrators — think are holding back the Greek
system. It’s no secret that W&L continues to
struggle with high levels of dangerous drink-
ing and sexual assault rates that are in some
cases nearly double the national average.

So gender relations were an appropriate
topic this week. But are most students inter-
ested in change?

The apathy in W&L’s Greek system is
downright alarming. Most students are con-

Qent to complain about the student leaders and
the administration without ever attempting to

get involved.
There is also a nagging suspicion in the
minds of many members that student leaders

. still take most of their marching orders from

the administration. That’s not the case, but
many students still seem to have little faith in
the administration.

Its time that the average
student got oﬁ’ his (or her)
lazy butt and stopped let-
ting IF C and Panhel do all

the heavy lifting.

The sad thing is that these unwarranted sus-
picions hinder the real conversations that need
to be taking place on this campus. Anyone can
see how bizarre our gender relations — or lack
thereof — really are.

After freshman year, few students hang out
with people of the opposite sex outside of class
and frat dance ﬂoors. If a guy and girl try to
go have lunch, people immediately assume

they’re on a date. -

This campus’s odd relations come from a
combination of factors. Until 23 years ago,
this was an all male institution where the so-
cial scene revolved around fraternities. In
many ways, that hasn’t changed.

The university didn’t make things any bet-
ter when they decided to build the ﬁve sorori-
ties on a back corner of campus while turning
Davidson Park into an all-male neighborhood.

Unfortunately, we can’t change the hand
we’ve been dealt. The houses aren’t going to
be moved, and life — for the time being — will
continue to revolve around fraternity parties.

Inside this system, however, it’s time for
serious change. It’s time that W&L students
stop treating date rape and sexual assault like
they were irrelevant or unimportant.

It’s time that the average student got off
his (or her) lazy butt and stopped letting IFC
and Panhel do all of the heavy lifting. Change
come by decree, even it it’s a group of other
students working for change.

If W&L’s Greek scene wants to continue
its tradition as one of the nation’s strongest,
change is a necessity. It’s time the Greek com-
munity gets on board.

Stop faking, eat real food already

Enough with pretending a salad is a burger; go ahead and eat a second helping

By Grace Andrews
c o L u M N I s 7

One of my favorite topics is perception, or
‘wetter yet, realistic self-perceptions. I was talk-
ing with my roommate the other day about the
growing epidemic that plagues this campus~
people being unrealistic/pretending when it
comes to their eating habits and body types.

Let me give an example of what I am talk-
ing about. For those of you familiar with the
Marketplace or the Co-op, you’ve probably‘
overheard a conversation that usually went
something like this:

Person 1 : Oh my gosh, I’m so hungry. I feel
like such a pig. I ’m going to eat my whole body
weight in food. (This would not be much, es-
pecially since the young woman looks like she

.4/lay be the distant cousin of a scrawny Kansas
scarecrow.)

Person 2: Really, what are you going to
get?

Person 1: I’m not sure...something fatten-
ing and full of calories. You know how I LOVE
to eat. I just can ’t believe how ravenous I am. I
can't wait to pile my plate up with food.

Person 2: Ok, well that sounds great!

So that wasn’t necessarily a conversation
that you would hear verbatim, but you get the
idea. Especially if the individuals speaking
look like a strong wind could carry them to
Buena Vista!

. The pair, usually young ladies then walk

away with a colossal plate (insert sarcasm
here) consisting of a ginormous piece of let-
tuce, a slice of deli meat, half a piece of whole
wheat, low carb, unreﬁned long-grain bread,
and a lone baby carrot. The plate is so pathetic
that it makes any self-respecting food lover

_ want to cry.

Usually, the pair will have what I call the
“hungry look” in their eye. When I see them, I
usually daydream of throwing chicken at them
in hopes that they’ll catch it with their mouth.

These hungry types seem to always be the
ones talking about how ravished they are, but
they never seem to be eating any thing of sus-
tenance.

Now, I’m going to need people on this cam-
pus to unapologetically participate in the won-
derful life process that some of us call eating!
I’m not advising that everyone eat junk all the
time or commit my favorite deadly sinwglut-
tony—but I do advise that people stop obsess-
ing over everything they eat or how they look.

If you know you’re hungry, eat, and do so
shamelessly. Or, for those of you who are not
huge eaters, STOP pretending that all you do
is eat.

Since I’m not blind, and have two function-
ing eyeballs, I can tell that you may not eat as
much as you pretend. '

This does not actually bother me; I just
need people to not talk about eating a lot when
they do not. It vexes my spirit because it seems
as if the individuals who do so are only doing

it because they feel they need to prove to oth-
ers that they do eat.

If you’re thin and you know you are healthy,
don’t worry about it. I, myself am a lover of
food and will tell anyone within a 50 mile
radius about how I eat, but then again when
people look at me, they don’t question my eat-
ing habits (insert smiley face here).

Another pretending issue that I’ve noticed
that some students, especially women, in the
student body consists ofipretending that they
are “overweight.” If I hear one more young
woman talk about how fat she is, knowing
good darn well that she wears single digit siz-
es, I may have to force feed someone.

I think that many of us have our bad days
when we do not see exactly how fabulous we
may look or be, but I think that it’s time for us
to get our lives together and be honest.

There is nothing wrong with going back
for seconds or even staring in the mirror and
admiring how good your reﬂection looks. Just
don’t get so wrapped up in yourself that you
begin reciting a little ditty called “mirror, mir-
ror, on the wall. . .”

If you ask me, life is far too short to keep
bothering everyone with an unrealistic ideal of
who you are or ought to be.

I sincerely hope that if you’re reading this,
you aren’t one of these “unrealistic” people
I’m talking about. If you are, I suggest that you
get your life together and start being real with
yourself and those around you!

-~—-———~ WASIIINGIUN AND LEEUNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR JACOB GEIGER

NEWS EDITOR
ASST. NEWS EDITORS

JESSICA SHAW
GRACE WANG
ALLISON CHOPIN
STACEY GRIIALVA
SACHA RAAB
MICHAEL KEENAN
WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN
-ABRI NELSON

OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS CRIGHTON ALLEN
GRACE ANDREWS
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG
KEVIN CORN
DANE DAVIS
ADAM LEWIS
HANK NATHAN
WESS O’DELL
RUSS WEEMS

LARA JORDAN
LENORA NUNNLEY
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students. faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, but is
otherwise independent. Questions or concerns
about the Phi should be addressed to the
editors at phi@wlu.edu or to the Media Board
at mediaboard@wlu.edu. The Media Board is
an independent, student-run editorial oversight
committee working with all media outlets on
the Washington & Lee campus. All inquiries
will remain confidential. THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
ed.it submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45
458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

   
  
   

  
  
  
     
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

misunderstandingiits puzpo
i0a.*You then offereditwo
—variaﬁon on ‘*1 hope.’ 
_ Cation Ofsenator ,Hiliary{l
arack.'Obarna as a voice for“

 
 

i e icielegates to three-prcsi%~ *
 scare that yourjediiioriai board

I ‘ yithat Clinton jisgzjilljbeg. .
,e is the"right,candidat"jc to? }

people. have a low —opin3-15:
eariwhere those«,opii1ioI1§: }
brother why he hates he: I
I I ’-s -‘moi secret that around .,
pinion, and people in Obamatfi
l1c’sfi;rre1ectabIe. 'rhe1esser~ 
lclintpnftend to%rise':wit1i‘t?h,,e .
8  moderate Democrat, who ..
‘bi Scrratorgby the Nationa
  is right, it was? 
V ained support as more, I
ative reaction to her with
on theiigssues tharmatte
- _ cos f‘cha’nge” to Wash 
Clinton as the Democratic ’
_. «l—-“don’t doubt the Illinois?
at doubtjhis ability to-id
’_ 2 at cxpericnce,:inj.add1é
A dived to deliver biparti:
. faile£l.’ii1.I994 because
‘ ,.sI:qez.!has learned fro

     

    
 
     
   
 
   

 
   

  

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11,2008  THE RING-TUM PHI - 4

arts&|ife ,

Inspiring Art

Bill White exhibit brings Italy to Lexington

By Celeste Cruz-Carandang
3 TA F F W R [T E R

Truth be told, I have an unexplainable infatuation with Italy. Under-
standably, I love its food, but I ﬁnd that my obsession goes somewhat .
deeper than culinary appreciation. I ﬁnd its culture and history fascinating
and its landscapes incredible. However, the art is, in my opinion, the most
exquisite and poignant aspect of Italian culture. Taking this into consid-
eration, one can only imagine my excitement when I discovered that an
exhibit entitled “In the Light of Italy,” by Bill White, was being shown in
Holekamp Gallery.

White is a professor of painting, drawing and contemporary art history
at Hollins University. Always conscious of his artistic ambitions, ‘

He attended the Philadelphia College of Art for his undergraduate
study and earned his M.F.A.i from the Tyler School of Art at Temple Uni-
versity. As his work makes evident, White adores color and utilizes it in
unexpected ways. His paintings can be found in both private and public
collections.

His art has been shown in upwards of twenty solo exhibits and has
been selected for over seventy-ﬁve juried shows. One of his oil paintings,
“Studio Light Suite,” is owned by the Art Museum of Western Virginia.

As the title of the exhibition reveals, the works were done in Italy.
White, the artist, ventured there in 2006. While on sabbatical from his
position at Hollins University, White traveled to explore the Umbrian re-
gion of Italy. Here, he found the inspiration for the collection of works
currently on display. During August 2006, White painted scenes from the
small towns of Todi and Monte Castello de Vibio.

The exhibit consists of wash drawings and casein paintings. The eight
drawings in the gallery were done with a black roller ball pen. White
added washes of color with walnut ink.

The four paintings were done with casein, a milk-based paint that can
be buffed to look like oils or left to dry with a matte ﬁnish. All of the
works were done plain air, or alfresco as the Italians say.

Each of the White’s works depicts a different part of Italian architec-
ture. He paints everything from piazzas to courtyards, churches to tree
lines, and schools to houses.

His interpretation of the culture is present in every stroke of his brush
and every line of his pen. He pays special attention to capturing the inten-
sity of the summer light in Italy. '

White found that the atmosphere in Europe provided a startling con-
trast to the hazy light of Virginia. He chose to portray this intensity in the
shadows and patterns of the architecture depicted in his work.

As I left the gallery, I took a glance at the guestbook. Besides the usual
space for names, there was an entire column devoted to thoughts. Page
after page of compliments and enthusiasm for, this exhibit. Words such as _
“moving',”; i‘exiiberant,’7=arnd~even “snazzy” wereused. I'tho_ught'for'a-mo—i. i_ _
ment, wondering how snazzy could be used to describe a piece ;a1'.t,:.ar:1_d pj ff _
then came to a realization. I understood that White achieved whatevcry -   I
artists seeks to achieve: for his work to inspire people who ?see it. .

Hollins professor Bill Whitespent his sabbatical In Italy.

JACOB GEIGER / Managing Editor

I  - — e 7 ’ . Group Rates
- April1», 2003 g r  Starting at
    8,-     ,   $89 a Night
EVERY THURSDA    M‘d“’°°"

 V . The packages include
skiing, slopeside bunkhousa

7' o o I lodging and free ski rentais.
 spfvqg £ Other lodging available thru
1-800-392-0152.

’ Timberiine is

/ P fﬁe  an excellent location
for spring sorority or

‘ ' ‘ v fr 1 rnity formal

{ﬁe Snow 25' min m ‘Reacn ‘:~,:’,.,,,..~,
We offer beautiful

- To a slopeside facilities

6%’ )5 for banquets with

nearby lodging.

._ W -~’""”_
M-«elm erlmec

FOUR SEASONS REALTY

west Virgin

W/E151 and W<’)rzder

,2. in ....        

starts at $104 net llerson Ber nl2ln.* M 0.

’’Above rate based on double occupancy in a village junior studio. Rate

does not include tax or reservation processing fee Rate suhiect to change WwW,§[]0W§h9ﬁ}||[[|,c0m  

and is not valid with other promotions.

N-,T:.A IN, 

  

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2008

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

Rough road trip for men’s bball

Team plays some close games but goes 1-3 _against s top teams; they ’ll look to bounce back at home on Wednesday

By Hank Nathan
surr warren

After defeating arch-rival Roa-
noke College in overtime, the Gen-
erals traveled to face No. 16 Guil-
ford in a battle for supremacy of the
ODAC. This was the second of four
road games against the four best
teams in the conference, not includ-
ing Washington and Lee. Ben Strong

. of Guilford, the defending Division

III player of the year, and Greg Bi-
enneman are the two leading scorers
in the conference respectively. Strong
averages 25.4 and Bienneman aver-
ages 23.2 points per game. The Blue
and White lead the conference in ﬁeld
goal shooting at 50.1 percent while
the Quakers lead the conference in
ﬁeld goal defense at 36.1 percent.
This game had all the markings of a

game. With 16 minutes left to play,
junior Chris McHugh sank a three to
cut the deﬁcit to 10. One minute later,
Bienneman scored his ﬁrst two points
of the game on two free throws. Bi-
enneman then hit his ﬁrst shot from
the ﬂoor on the next possession, but
W&L remained down by 10.

With 12:10 remaining, freshman
point guard Jason Cimino drilled a 3
pointer on the offensive end and then
drew a charge on the defensive end to
give W&L some momentum in an ef-
fort to come back. Guilford was called
for a technical foul after arguing the
call and Cimino netted a foul shot to
bring the team within 4, 44-40.

Junior captain Isaiah Goodman
credited the ability to come back to
the maturity of the team.

“We knew we were going to come

“Everyone in the country knows that the ODAC

means business, and to be one of those teams that

everyone is talking about is cool. I think the past few

games show that we are serious contenders not only

in the ODAC, but in the region, and country. ”

Isaiah Goodman, junlor guard

close contest.

Both teams started out of rhythm,
missing their ﬁrst three attempts until
Guildford hit a shot nearly two and
a half minutes into the game. W&L

.. continued its cold streak when junior
.. {Kirk Jones nailed a three-pointer a
irninute and a half later. The Quakers

then proceeded on a 9-0 run to make
the score 11-3. Jones sank his second
three of the game to thwart the run
with more than 13 minutes left in the
half, but the Generals remained out of
sync.

W&L was plagued by uncharacter-
istically poor shooting and foul trou-
ble in the ﬁrst half. Both Bienneman
and co-captain Femi Kusimo got two
early fouls and were forced to sit on
the bench. Because of the foul trou-
ble, Bienneman did not score a single
point in the ﬁrst 20 minutes while
Strong had eight. The score at half
was 30-20 in favor of the Quakers.

Guilford came out hot in the sec-
ond half, knocking down two three-
pointers to give the team a 16-point
advantage. Jones, undeterred, opened
up the second stanza the same as the
ﬁrst by hitting his third three of the

back,” said Goodman. “It just shows
how much we’ve grown. We weren’t
worried about the deﬁcit, and we
found a way to come back. The tough
part is that they [Guilford] were No.
16, so they were good enough to hold
us off.”

McHugh narrowed the score to
tvvoon another three-pointer with
seven minutes to play. Strong subse-
quently hit a layup and received a foul
call a few trips later, but Bienneman
countered with a two to cut the lead to
threer. However, on the next posses-
sion, Strong, matched up against Bi-
enneman, drew a foul on Bienneman
which was his ﬁfth and he was out of
the game with 5:48 leﬁ.

The teams traded baskets until
Kusimo scored three of the next four
points from the foul line to decrease
Guilford’s lead to one. After a de-
fensive stop by the Generals, Jones
cashed in his ﬁfth three-pointer of
the game with 2:51 remaining, giving
W&L its ﬁrst lead since the early por-
tion of the game, 58-56. Guilford an-
swered immediately to knot the game
and then scored again to regain a two
point advantage. This time, McHugh

Tuesdays,
Wednesdays,
Thursdays

 

Follow te aroma to
Commons T hira’ Floor for

Popcorn and Quick
  Questions

about options ﬁ)r

Summer ’08
”WASH‘I‘NG'I‘ON AND LFQE UNIVERSITY

responded by converting on two shots
from the charity stripe to deadlock

. the game at 60-60. The comeback ul-

timately ended as Strong scored the
next four points in the game from the
foul line to give the Quakers a 64-60
victory.

This lost snapped W&L’s six game
winning streak, but showed that the
team is ready to compete with any-
one, said Goodman.

“It’s like were playing in the ACC
or the Big East of Division III,’’ said
Goodman. “Everyone in the country
knows that the ODAC means busi-
ness, and to be one of those teams
that everyone is talking about is cool.
I think the past few games show that
we are serious contenders not only
in the ODAC, but in the region, and
country.”

Coach Adam Hutchinson said the
schedule down the stretch will show
how good this team is and the Guil-
ford game exempliﬁes how far this
team has come.

“We have a chance over the re-
mainder of the schedule to mea-
sure ourselves against the rest of
the ODAC,” said Hutchinson. “Our
ability to erase such a deﬁcit on the
road speaks to how much this team
has matured and how much poise we
have when facing adversity.”

The Generals rough times con-
tinued this weekend when the lost to
Randolph-Macon on Saturday and
were easily defeated by Virginia Wes-
leyan on Sunday.

Randolph-Macon came out on ﬁre
from behind the arc, shooting 66.7
percent from three point range in the
ﬁrst half en route to a 41-32 lead at
the break. The Generals failed to chip
away at the lead in the second half,
getting no closer than nine with four
minutes to go as the Yellow Jackets
cruised to a 78-66 victory. Bienemann
led the Generals with 22 points.

On Sunday, it was the Generals
who jumped out to an early lead, scor-
ing the ﬁrst six points of the game at
Virginia Wesleyan. However, that was
the last time the Generals would have
a lead as the Marlins took control and
extended their lead to 14 at the half.
In the second half, the Marlins used
a 13-0 run to go up by 25 with seven
minutes to play. Bienemann was the
only General in double ﬁgures with
16 points. '

The Generals will look to rebound
when they host Emory and Henry on
Wednesday night.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Senior Greg Bienemann battled foul trouble against Guilford Wednesday as he
matched up with Ben Strong, the defending player of the year in Division III.
Bienemann led the Generals in scoring in their other two games last week.‘

    

‘continrredfrompaigenﬁly A I If I if  I 4. I A   T
. and built up a six-point lead at-halﬁime. W&L came out strong after halfand obtainedi 1 
a 35-34 lead with 13:32 left; After, thispoint, the Generals went cold. They went Escort"
A less for nearly eight minutcsvas Roanoke went on a 19-0 run. The game stayed-at Va  . ‘ »
margin until the end.‘ The Marooas came out on top 60-44. The very things that helped the .p i
Generals to their last few wins hurt them in this game. The Generalsrrnade 23‘ turnovers ,

   

V were out-reboundedeby eight. Kfgronchick led W&L with 16 points and eight rebounds; She

moved  to fourth aI1~fiIne‘  scoring at W&L. ‘Bethany Ridenhour also added a double.‘ > if
digit point total. 1 2 ‘ , J I . . ’ ‘ ' H ‘  ‘ -
Q The Generals wart return to action on Tuesday when they travel to Guilford at 7 pan. -  ‘

  

mrts.-ch .ct-rn

' .
 :2 Emma
Prziw. CAR HINER & Tm Tor Cami:

Order from our eorrxpiete menu
Or Join rtsjor one ojlmr .4 LI. }"('}{./I {L1/t.;"v° E): ‘T .3:-g;‘fe£s.r’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-‘mum
Saturday Night Prime Rib Sinner 5pm-mom
Sunday Baked Chicken, ?orl< Loin. & Pot Roast ‘item-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Brealrfast Bar 10pm-»2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am—11am
Daily Hot Country Bar Ham-18pm  ‘ gg
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit 83:" 11am-iogpm " " '1‘    “Egg.

Order Breal<:'l’ast 24 Hours .21 day, 7 czlays a v~.-'eel<l

Home Cookeo‘ Merrls & Southern I1z:.rp:'trrlity.’

Located at

LEEIITMMPMZA

l~Si & I-64. i%l:~.’i§ W5. 25%; Nortli Lee I--lwy. l,,§.‘XlIlgl{3§l. VA

540-463-3478

    

lg ‘S2: .._ .
» ‘JV “

 

.<-(


 

 ii} s.r"z.. -~ 513% ;.‘:«.m...

Lexington Animal Hospital
Welcomes You and Your Pet’!

20% Qffyourfirst
visit with this acf

New clients only/limit one per visit. Expires 06/30/2008

   

CAREEReSERVICES

Great food :3 a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toysl

I

 

Dr. Sheryl H. Carls
28 Bones Place Lexington, VA 540-463-2715

 

 

 

CampusRQ<_:  

HELP CELEBRATE NATIONAL RECREATIONAL SPORTS AND FITNESS DAY BY
PARTICIPATING IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS FEBRUARY 11TH-15TH.

**ALL EVENTS OPEN TO ENTIRE W&L COMMUNlTY** EMAIL: se||ington@w|u for more info

MONDAY 2/11 I
12pm EVENT KICK-OFF WITH PRESIDENT RUSCIO COLONNADE/WASHINGTON
HALL
12:15pm CAMPUS WALK STARTING AT WASHINGTON HALL
TUESDAY 2/12
6-8pm WAR BALL DOREMUS GYM
THURSDAY 2/14
10AM-3PM FALL IN LOVE WITH RECREATION AND FITNESS COMMONS ATRIUM

FREE FITNESS CLASSESOFFERED      

Jump Rope Learn-by-Doing Seminar e-mail Coach Schall, limit 15 participants each
session 1

Tuesday, February 12 4 - 4:30 p.m. Warner Center :Front Balcony  
Thursday, February 14 12:15-12:45 p.m. Warner Center :Front Balcony

Beyond Crunches 2 (Different exercises from Beyond Crunches 1)
Learn-by-Doing Seminar

e-mail Stephanie Shank, limit 15 participants each session

Tuesday, February 12 12:15-12:45 p.m. Warner Center :Front Balcony
Thursday, February 14 4:15- 4:45 p.m. Dance Studio

Latin-Dance Aerobics Free Group Exercise Class by Stephanie Shank

Wednesday, February 13 4:00- 4:45 p.m.   Dance Studio
Friday, February 15 5:OO- 5:45 p.m. Dance Studio

Body Composition Testing Estimation of Body Fat
***E-mail Stephanie Shank for your 15-minute appointment***

Monday, February 11 1- 2 p.m. Fitness Center
Tuesday, February 12 3- 4 p.m. Fitness Center
Friday, February 15 I 10-11 a.m. Fitness Center

 

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2008

‘ THE RING-TUM PHI - 7

 

Golfers bug Tiger
at their own peril

Talking trash about the best golfer in the
worldjs a safe way tomake him mad

By Adam Lewis  I
COLUMNIST

Would you ever be quoted saying that Albert Einstein’s accomplish-
ments in the ﬁeld of physics were “just alright”? That given the right
circumstances, you could have come up with ideas comparable or better
than his Theory of Relativity? That hisintelligence is beatable? That
his awards, “you lcriow the ones ‘he Wonfor making earth-shattering dis-'
coveries, don’t really mean anything? Probably not, right?

Well let’s liken physics to golf, awards to tournaments, intelligence
to athletic prowess, and ﬁnally, Albert Einstein to Tiger Woods. See
where I’m going with this?

It seems preposterous to challenge the intelligence of arguably the
smartest man ever, so why do golfers constantly call into question the
skill of the best golfer in the world? Of course,I am referring to the
recent remarks of Ian Poulter, and the ensuing results on the golf course.
But before I get to "‘Cou1ter,’Irn'can Poulter (sorry, I oﬁen COI1ﬁlS6 idiots),
let’s look at some other highly intelligent individuals who have called
out Tiger.

_ Stephen Ames. In 2006, just prior to the World Golf Championships-
Accenture Match Play Championship, Ames, who only made it into the
64-person tournament because of another player’s withdrawal, decided
to call.out Tiger, his ﬁrst round opponent: “Anything can happen, es-
pecialfy where he’s hitting the ball.” He then went on to tell the Golf
Channel, “As bad as he [Tiger] hits it, he still manages to win golf
tourn ents.”

Oh Stephen. Tisk, tisk, tisk. You want to know why this was a bad
idea? Well, Tiger went on to win the matches nine and eight, which
means he was up nine strokes with eight holes to play, the earliest a
player can declare victory in match play. Further, aware of the down-
side to ignorantly running your mouth, Tiger‘ responded simply by‘ stat-
ipg his reaction to Ames’ comments in three words: “nine and eight.”

_« Rory Sabbatini. This past spring, Sabbatini drew media attention
when he took ; lead at the Wachovia Championship into the ﬁnal round,
only to lose by four strokes to Woods. Subsequently, this South African
brainiac decided to speak out aﬁer getting destroyed by Tiger, stating
that “he [Tiger] is more beatable than ever.”’ ‘

What happened next? Well, just a few tournaments later, Tiger
trailed Sabbatini by one stroke after three rounds at the Bridgestone
Invitational, then.«.sh9t,a;_ﬁnal round .65 to beat Sabbatini by eight. Not
exactly beatable’, huh Rory? Comments like this make John Daly seem
like an obese Stephen Hawking.

Now, we come to Ian Poulter. With zero PGA victories under his

belt, this Englishman thought it intelligent to preface his play at the
Dubai Classic with comments directed toward the ﬁeld and Woods. W

Conﬁdent in his improving play, Poulter asserted that “I haVen’t played
to my full potential yet. And when that happens it will just be me and
Tiger.” He even predicted a victory at the US Open. I bet you can all
guess what happened next.

Tiger toolc/‘,t_l1_e'V.to'\.1rnam‘er,il2 with,’_a "masterful Sunday round, birdying
ﬁve of his last seven holes to ﬁnish at 14 under par. But, like Poulter
said, it was just him and Tiger at the top of the scoreboard. The only
problem was that there were 38 players between them, as Poulter ﬁn-
ished one under.

Now, don’t get me wrong. I am not saying that the aforementioned
remarks by Ames, Sabbatini and Poulter were all that harsh. In fact,
they were relatively subtle. And let’s«;‘face‘ it, trash talking is a very big
part of sports nowadays. But there isa trend when it comes to talking
smack to the best player in the world.- , .

Tiger Woods has won rriorethan eight times as many~PGA
tournaments as Ames, Sabbatini, and Poulter combined. He has 13 ma-
jor titles, as compared to zero between the three other players. In other
words, he’s hotter than his wife and her twin doing a swim suit adver-
tisement in the Caribbean. He is not only the best current player, but he
may very well be the best player of all time.

This being said, if people refuse to challenge Einstein’s theo-
ries, then there is no reason why players should challenge Tiger’s game.
The only possible difference I can ﬁnd is that Einstein dealt with theo-
ries of physics, while challenging and beating Tiger is against the laws
of physics. »

   
  
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
   
 

SCHOLARS CoUNsELoRs
June 25 — July 26, 2008

re you looking for a wayito spend an exciting
uly in Lexington while positively affecting high
chool students and getting paid?

orking as a Summer Scholars Counselor creates
or you that opportunity by allowing you to work
ith approximately 100 rising high school
eniors for four weeks in July.

e are looking for responsible and friendly
tudents who work well with their peers,

ill organize extracurricular activities for the
participants, and offer appropriate guidance and
insight to scholars about wcollege life.

..-i-.

pplications can be acquired in the Summer
cholars Ofﬁce located inthe Hill House, 218 W.
ashington Street. V; lb-,~_.. _ —

For more information about the position, contact
Dr. Mimi Elrod at 458-8727. The deadline for
urning in applications is February 25, 2008.

Wrestling’s
rough day

Team goes [-2 in meet

By Mlchael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR .

The wrestling team won its opening match at the
Ursinus Double—Duel but dropped its next two in C01-
legeville, Pa. on Saturday. The Generals knocked off
McDaniel 22-21, but fell to Centennial Conference foes
Ursinus and Muhlenburg 28-9 and 25-15, respectively.
The Generals won the ﬁrst three matches against McDan-
iel and had clinched the victory before the last match.
Seniors Anthony Boniello and Peter Lawrence led the

“  way‘*fdi- tYi3G'_€-.‘r1er,a1§'?t’2'iHyi'hg ﬁrree vidt<")'i3le”s"¥ B6h'i§ilb""":'t
defeated McDaniel’s Corey Beall 4-0, Ursinus’s Michael
Schwager 4-3, and Mulhenburg’s David Lavin 4-0 in the
165 pound weight class while Lawrence tallied a 17-6
major decision against Randy Neaton of McDaniel and
then pulled out close victories against Chris Springer of
Ursinus, 8-7, and Joseph DeCampo of Mulhenburg, 9-7.
Senior Kirk Adamson nearly went 3-0, winning an 11-0
major victory and a 7-6 win but fell 7-6 to Nate Murran of
Ursinus. The Generals will return to action this Saturday
when they travel to Newport News, Va. To take on the
Apprentice School.

Seniors Anthony Boniello (top) and Peter
-Lawrence (right) have been stalwarts on the
mat for the Generals this season. They’Il lead
the team Into It’s conference tournament at.
Ursinus on Feb. 23.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

      

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

The women are favored to regain the ODAC
crown in next week’s conference meet.

An ODAC
sweep  

The women’s swimming team took home two victories in its ﬁnal tune-
up before the ODAC Championships, defeating host Hollins University 77-
21 and Guilford College 68-27 on Saturday. It was a strong performance
for the Generals, who won seven of the nine individual events, four times
ﬁnishing ﬁrst and second, and both relays. The entireteam contributed as
seven different women tallied individual wins. Freshman Tess Hayden won
the 200 free, sophomore Sarah Simpson touched ﬁrst in the 100 ﬂy, sopho-
more Tara O’Ncil took ﬁrst in the 1000 free, junior Susan Mahoney won
the 400 IM, freshman Rosie Purdy took home to 100 back, junior Lindsey
Strachan touched ﬁrst in the 500 free and sophomore Jenna Worsham won
the 100 breast. Simpson teamed with junior Jessica Shaw, sophomore Lynn
Bazzel, and senior Amy Roberson to win the 400 medley relay and Hayden
teamed with junior Julianne Miata and seniors Danielle Cardone-and Co-
lette Moryan to take the ﬁnal event of the meet, the 400 free relay. The
Generals return to the pool this Friday for day one of the ODAC Champion-

Team 7-0 vs. conference

ships at Radford.

 

sports

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2008

sports

 

  

° THE RING-TUM PHI

deck

 

MON Tues WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
vs.
Men s I E&H
Basketball 7:00 p_m_
at
Women's Guiiford
Basketball 7:00 p_m_
at
Bluegra Mountai conference
Mon’s
smmmlng hampions ips
Th rsday-Sa urday
at
giitimellfs oDA: champion hips
W mm ng Friday - Sund%«
at
Wrestling I"°wp°'t News
Apprentice
6:30 p.m.
at
Track Lafayette
Invitational

 

 

numbers

15:30.19

Junior Vance Berry's 5,000m time in Friday's Virginia Tech’s Elite

Meet. Berry broke Nathan Johnson's old school record of 15:35.93.

Berry was the only non—Division I runner in the race, joined by eight

runners from Miami (FL), Ohio, Georgia, Georgia Tech, and Clemson.

0

Number of losses the women's swimming team has against ODAC op-

ponents this year. The women completed an undefeated conference

season this Saturday with victories over Hollins and Guilford and will

attempt to win their 18th ODAC Championship this weekend.

21st

National ranking of the women's track and field team according to the

U.S. Track & Field and Cross

Country Coaches Association (USTFCCCA)

Division Ill National Poll. This is the highest the team has ever been

ranked.

7th

National ranking of the men's swimming team according to Colleg-

eswimming.com's Division III poll.

 

box

 

“Predictably, lstarted out in last. Three laps into

the race, I could hear people giving me the ‘pity

clap’. ‘C’mon man, you can do it.’ I appreciated

the support, but, as

far as I was concerned, ev-

erything was going ﬁne.  I ﬁnished 6th of 9 run-

ners, better than I ever could have hoped in such

a strong ﬁeld. It was a time and a race that never

would have happened without the support of my

coaches, family, and teammates. Honestly, they

deserve the credit.”

Junior Vance Berry on breaking the 5,000m record on Friday night

at Virginia Tech.

“Its like we’re playing in the ACC or the Big East
of Division III. Everyone in the country knows

that the ODAC means business, and to be one
of those teams that everyone is talking about is

cool. I think the past

few games show that we are

seriouscontenders not only in the ODAC, but in

the region, and country.”

Junior Isaiah Goodman on the men's basketball team's comeback that
came up just short against #16 Gullford on Wednesday.

 

Track rolls

on at CNU

Berry sets 5k record
at Va. Tech elite meet

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

The men’s and women’s
indoor track teams traveled to
Virginia Beach Saturday for
the Vince Brown Invitational
hosted by Christopher Newport
University. 0 There, the teams
competed against teams from
D-I, D-II and D-III schools.
Despite the stiff competition,
the Generals pulled off strong
performances.

Leading the women was
sophomore Dorothy Todd, who
ﬁnished lst among D-III com-
petitors in the 800 meters in a
time of 2:28.69 and 2nd of D-
III runners in the mile. In fact,
Todd set a personal record in
the mile after crossing the ﬁn-
ish line with a time of5:26.l9.

Also leading the women was
junior Stacy Doombos who ﬁn-
ished 2nd among D-III com-
petitors in the 400 meters with
a time of 60.92, and whose time
of 7.66 in the 55 meters was
good enough for 4th in D-III.

Freshman Summer Lol-
lie also had a strong showing,
ﬁnishing 3rd among D-III com-
petitors after landing a distance
of 34’ 14.1” in the triple jump.

“It was a great experience
to be part of such a big meet,
because there were a lot of D-
I schools there as well,’’ said
Doombos. “I think it really
pushed runners on the team

_ to compete with them. I got a

chance to really focus on some

events that I have not been run-
ning for a while.”

On the men’s side, it was
junior Michael Welsh who led
the team when he ﬁnished 4th
among D-III participants in the
mile with a person best time of
4:33.31. Junior Alex Jackson
was not far behind, running the
mile in a time of4:34.44 — good
enough for 5th place.

Junior Sean Hurdiss and
freshman Jeff Giordano also

had great ﬁnishes. Both re- -

corded personal bests. Hurdiss
crossed the ﬁnish line in a time
of 23.79 in the 200 meters.
Meanwhile, Giordano ﬁnished
the 55 meters in a time of 6.67.

When asked about his ﬁn-
ish, Giordano responded, “It
feels good. But ODAC is all
that matters.” He added, “We
need to work together and stay
healthy and injury-free. Noth-
ing waschanged for this meet.
We just continue to improve as
we compete”.

“Several of the teams that
we will see in a few weeks at
ODACs were at the meet, so it
was a great opportunity to see
where everyone stands in the
weeks leading up to the confer-
ence meet.” said Todd. “I was
really excited to pass a couple
of girls from Roanoke right at
the ﬁnish of the 800. The dis-
tance crew is coming off a se-
ries of really good workouts,
and I know that everyone is
looking forward to our meet
this weekend at the Armory in

800 by 0.01 seconds (top).

  

‘ MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor
Sophomore Dorothy Todd leans past two Roanoke
women at the line top be the first D-Ill finisher the

Freshman Jeff Giordano

en route to winning his 400 heat in 54.01 (bottom).

New York City and to ODACS
after Washington Break.”

Friday night was also a
huge night for the teams. Junior
Vance Berry and junior Eliza-
beth Webb both competed at
Virginia Tech in the 5K race.
Berry ﬁnished in a time of
15:30.19, a new school record
and a time fast enough to ﬁnish
6th overall. Meanwhile, Webb
completed the race in 18:05.92
to capture 5th.

“Breaking the indoor 5k re-
cord was one of the highlights
of my career,” said Berry.

Berry’s race was full of
excitement as he was the only
non-D-I runner in the race. He
started out in last, but by main-
taining his technique, he began

to knock off the runners in the
pack. With a mile left, he had
passed two University of Mi-
ami runners and was closing in
on both the record and a runner
from Georgia Tech. V

“As the going got tough in
the ﬁnal mile, I focused hard on
each lap, trying to maintain my
form and squeeze out every-
thing I had.” commented Berry.
“Crossing the line, I passed the
Georgia Tech runner to ﬁnish
6th of nine runners, better than
I ever could have hoped in such
a strong ﬁeld.”

Both track teams will spend
the ﬁrst weekend of their Feb-
ruary breaks running at the
Armory in New York. Indoor
ODACS occur Feb. 29.

Women defeat Wasps and Wildcats

T hree-game win streak ends after 60-44 loss to Roanoke on Sunday

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

The women’s basketball
team had another full week
of ODAC play. The Generals
took on Emory & Henry Uni-
versity, Randolph College and
Roanoke College.

Washington and Lee started
the week against the Wasps of
Emory & Henry Tuesday. The
Generals started the game off
strong, scoring 50 points and
shooting 60 percent in the ﬁrst
half. Fifty points is the Gener-
als’ highest ﬁrst-half output for
the Generals since the 2000-
2001 season when they scored
59 against Lesley. W&L main-
tained a large lead for most of
the second half. Near the end
of the game, the Wasps cut
the lead to 11, but the Gener-
als stayed focused and made

late free throws to seal the vic-
tory. When the ﬁnal whistle
sounded, the Generals were on
top 82-69. W&L dominated in
nearly every aspect of the game.
It shot a high percentage, out-
rebounding the Wasps by 10
and had a season—high of 26 as-
sists. The Generals were paced
by sophomore center Kaitlyn
Kamp. She had career highs in
points (19) and rebounds (17).
She went 8-10 from the ﬁeld
and 3-4 from the line. Other
W&L players also played a role
in the victory. Junior guard
Bethany Ridenhour tied a sea-
son—high with 19 points and
tied her career-high with six
assists. Senior forward Kristen
Krouchick had 15 points along
with ﬁve assists. Senior Aman-
da Kane supplied 14 points and
a career-high of eight assists.
The Generals won two in a row

and were building momentum.
On Friday evening, W&L
took on the Wildcats of Ran-
dolph. The Generals again had
a strong ﬁrst half, jumping out
to a 32-26 advantage. The ef-
fort was led by 11 points from
senior guard Emily Wolff. The
Wildcats made a push as the
second half started and cut the
lead to two points with 10 min-
utes to play. The Generals re-
sponded with an 8-0 run. W&L
held the advantage for the re-
mainder of the contest and came
away with an 11-point victory,
62-51. W&L again controlled
the glass with 21 offensive
boards and an 11 rebound’ ad-
vantage in total. The Gener-
als also clamped down on the
defensive end, forcing 22 tum-
overs and holding the Wildcats
to just 27 percent shooting.
Several Generals stepped up in

the victory. Freshman center
Felice Herman tied her career-
high with 12 points and added
eight boards. Bethany Riden-
hour had 10 points and four as-
sists. Kristen Krouchick tallied
11 rebounds, ﬁve assists and
ﬁve steals. The Generals had a
three-game winning streak go-
ing into a big game Saturday.
On Saturday, the Generals
faced the Roanoke Maroons.
The Maroons are one of the top
teams in the ODAC with a 10-5
conference record. This game
was special, because it was part
of the WBCA’s Think Pink Ini-
tiative to help raise money in
the ﬁght against breast cancer.
W&L and Roanoke played a
hotly-contested ﬁrst half that
consisted of four ties and ﬁve-
lead changes. Roanoke pulled

away in the closing minutes
See “Win streak” on page 5

 

