“)7 2. 755‘
ﬂ55L
V, // /

,, _ /3:

V.

 

Phi Psi waits for hearing on its fate

It’s been two weeks since an off-campus Phi Psi party left a high school senior in the hospital. The
fraternity has ended pledgeship, initiated its pledges and now must wait until March 19 to find out

  

  

what punishment, if any, will be handed down by the Student Affairs committee.

NEWS / Page 2

ASHINTO D LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MARCH 10, zoos 3 y 1- H E

STUDENTS AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

V0 LU M E CXI,

‘The Bracket’
infuriates campus

President Ruscio implores
editor, authors to step down

By Queenie Wong
snxrr wmmz

Students, faculty and administrators are up in arms
over an annual series published Thursday by The Trident,
an independent student newspaper, that some readers say
is offensive and breaches the community’s trust.

The column in The ‘Trident, titled “The Bracket,” la-
bels speciﬁc students as “Pretentious Sluts,” “Trapped in
the Closet,” “Terrible Drunks” and “Overall Suck.” Ac-
cording to the column, the point of “The Bracket” is to
name the university’s most terrible person.

Last Friday, the university president, the student body
president and the student judicial council chair sent a let-
ter to the college community, asking for a formal apology
and the resignation of the column’s editor and authors.

“As embarrassing as the article may have been for the
individuals involved, this is even more of an embarrass-
ment to the university, our values and our traditions,” the
e-mail said.

But The Trident’s Editor-in-Chief Christina Pratt said
that the paper defends its decision to publish the column
and will not issue a formal apology.

“This article is not meant to offend anyone. It’s just a
joke. I think people need to understand that,” she said.

Pratt also said that if people are offended by the paper
they should just stop reading it.

"I believe that doing any such thing
and trying to pass it 0/?’ as journalism

is wrong and, frankly, it disgusts me. ”

 a2&___

Senior Tim Livingston, the co-author of the column
along with senior Myke Mulhern, said that he stands by
everything they wrote.

“There’s a lot of ignorance, it seems, between the
freshmen to understand that the tradition of the Raging
Intellectuals is to write this thing every year. It’s sup-
posed to be demeaning. It’s supposed to tell people who’s

terrible, and the truth is, Myke and I didn’t mean this to .

be insidious,” said Livingston.

Livingston also said that with the exception of one
joke, everything published in “The Bracket” is true.

“There are people who in my four years I’ve seen just
do terrible thing after terrible thing that deserve to be on
it. I really don’t have any guilt for putting them on,” he
said.

But sophomore Neville Fogarty disagrees.

“It offends me that these two writers think that they
are entertaining anyone in the community or providing a
service by really talking about things that have no place
in print media. . .I believe that doing any such thing and
trying to pass it off as journalism is wrong and, frankly, it
disgusts me,” said F ogarty.

Last Friday, Fogarty and eight students discussed the
column with Dean of Freshman David Leonard. At the
discussion, Leonard said that he has never seen such a
strong student response.

Although Leonard called the column “offensive,
harmful and immature,” he also urged students to think
before they act.

“It’s really easy to ﬂy off the handle and make some
errors in judgment...I think cooler heads should prevail
in terms of what can be done,” he said.

But Pratt and Livingston said that they’re not worried
about the consequences.

“I think a week, two weeks down the road, this is go-
ing to fade away,” Livingston said.

PHI ARCHIVES

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity house (above), which commands a central location in Davidson Park, will
be empty next year. Placed on critical probation last year for hazing violations, the fraternity has now been convict-

ed for the second time and suspended for one year by the Student Affairs Committee (SAC).

SAE suspended one year for hazing violations

By Jacob Geiger
MANAGING EDITOR

Davidson Park will be a little quieter next
year as Sigma Alpha Epsilon serves a one-year
suspension after being found guilty of hazing
violations.

The decision was handed down by the
Student Affairs Committee (SAC), a group of
faculty, administrators and students, after the
Inter-fraternity Council found SAE guilty of
hazing violations.

Half of the SAC members are students, and
the other half are administrators and faculty.

SAE’s dismissal comes nine months after
Kappa Sigma’s national ofﬁce pulled the char-
ter of the fratemity’s Washington and Lee’s
chapter after a hazing investigation. Kappa
Alpha has also been investigated by the IFC
and its national ofﬁce after the fraternity was
accused of hazing.

IFC President Chris Womom said there
were two investigations involving SAE. The
ﬁrst investigation found no substantial evi-
dence of hazing. After receiving new com-
plaints, however, the IFC launched a new in-
vestigation.

“We had an investigation based on those
complaints, and the IFC found evidence that
hazing activities had occurred, so we turned
the case over to SAC,” Wornom said.

SAE President Jim Tartaglia declined to
comment.

Womom said the hazing complaints came
from several different sources but said he
could not reveal who those sources are.

SAE was placed on critical ‘probation last
year after the IFC and SAC found evidence
of hazing violations. The W&L student hand-
book states fraternities that violate the uni-
versity’s hazing guidelines are automatically
considered for suspension or dismissal.

The handbook also states that the impact of
violations can be lessened if the leadership of
a fraternity takes immediate action to address
the violations.

Womom said the IFC urged SAE to take
this sort of action and develop a plan that
could be presented to SAC. -

Executive Committee President Josh
Payne, who is a member of SAC, said that
while SAC’s decision was a sound one based
on the information presented, he did not sup-
port suspending the fraternity.

“I think it’s too harsh. I don’t like the idea
of kicking a fraternity off that’s moving to-
wards progress,” Payne said. “I think this sets
us back because they were moving forward.”

SAE has 10 days to appeal the suspension
to W&L President Ken Ruscio, who said he
would work to make a prompt decision if the
case is appealed.

While declining to discuss the SAE case
because of the possibility of appeal, Ruscio
discussed hazing and the fraternity system.

“The university has certain standards in
place. The Greek system has standards in
place. Those are meaningless if violations
have no consequence,” Ruscio said.

Though SAE’s suspension begins im-
mediately, Dean of Students and SAC Chair
Dawn Watkins said, “as long as nothing goes
wrong,” fraternity members will be allowed to
live in the house until the end of the year and
that upperclassmen will be allowed to contin-
ue taking meals at the chapter house.

The suspension may also mean that junior
Garrett Clark, a member of SAE, loses his seat
on the IFC. Clark, who is currently a junior
justice on the council and was scheduled to
become the council’s senior justice this spring,
declined to comment.

Womom said the IFC had not discussed
Clark’s situation yet, but he did say there was
a precedent in the matter after Josh Prell, a
member of Kappa Sigma, stepped down after
his fraternity was suspended by the national
ofﬁce.

According to Wornom, there has been no
discussion of taking legal action against the
fraternity members.

“There is no precedent of legal action be-
ing pursued,” Womom said. “Rather, there’s a
focus on education and making sure the indi-
viduals and organizations understand that haz-
ing is wrong and not tolerated by the IFC, the
university or the State of Virginia.”

NUMBER15

 

KA under
  investigation
from school,
national

’ chapter

Fraternity fate to be
decided by SAC trial on
March I 9

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

The Kappa Alpha Order National
Administrative Office (NAO) sus-
pended some members of the campus
chapter after a non-student reported al-
legations of hazing, Director of Chapter
Services Michael Wilson said in an e-
mail Wednesday to The Ring-Tum Phi.

“Kappa Alpha Order as an organiza-
tion has a zero tolerance for hazing,”
Wilson said.

After conducting a thorough inves-

- tigation, the fratemity’s national ofﬁce

said that it veriﬁed the allegations. The
period of suspension depends on how
involved “each individual was in the
hazing, Wilson said. Suspended mem-
bers are prohibited from participating in
fraternity activities on and off campus.

The national ofﬁce would not com-
ment on how many members were sus-
pended, when the suspension oﬂicially
occurred or on the type of charges made
against the chapter.

The chapter’s president, junior Will
Porter, and KA members would also

not comment. Porter said in an e-mail
to The Ring-Tum Phi that members are
still in the ﬁnal stages of the suspension
process.

“I would say hazing is no
more of a focus now than
in the past...this year we
seem to have many re-
ported incidents, so we ’ve

had more investigations. ’

CHRIS WORNOM, IFC President
V 

The national ofﬁce conﬁrmed that
chapter members were advised not to
comment about the case.

Last month, the university’s Interfra-

temity Council (IFC) also conducted a
separate investigation of KA for similar
charges, IFC President Chris Womom
said.

Womom said that the council’s in-
vestigation conﬁrmed that the hazing vi-
olations were true. The IF C will make a
recommendation for dismissal, suspen-
sion or critical probation to the Student
Affairs Committee (SAC) March 19.

But KA, a fraternity founded at
Washington and Lee, is not the only
Greek organization at W&L accused of
hazing pledges this year.

Last week, the SAC suspended the
campus chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsi-
lon for one year after hazing allegations
surfaced.

Hazing has always been a concern of
the university, Womom said.

“I would say hazing is no more of a
focus now than in the past. It’s always
been considered wrong under the IFC,
university and Virginia state law,” Wor-
nom said. “This year, we seem to have

many reported incidents, so we’ve had
more investigations.”

Although hazing is considered a
Class 1 misdemeanor under Virginia
law—an offense punishable by jail time
and a ﬁne up to $2,500—Wornom said
that the IFC’s recommendation will not
set any legal precedent.

The national ofﬁce and local alumni
will begin working more closely with
the campus chapter to make sure that
the chapter complies with the policies
of the university and the Kappa Alpha
Order, the national ofﬁce said Wednes-
day.

This increased involvement will take
many forms including more oversight
into the initiation of new members and
chapter meetings, KA’s Executive Di-
rector Larry Wiese said in an e-mail to
The Ring-Tum Phi.

“The NAO will continue to work...
to create a positive fraternal experience
for all members moving forward,” the
national ofﬁce said.

 

 

 

5%? l l. 2008

new

UINERSITY LIBRARY

    

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2008

2 - nu-: RING-TUM PM3HlM3T0N&l.EEUNlVERslTY
 VT2uW

 

African-American art
featured in Chavis series

W&L professors oﬂer their interpretations,
explore themes of emancipation and patriarchy

Bywes O’DeIl
surr wmsn

The head of Washington and Lee’s art
department, Dr. Pamela Simpson, spoke
Wednesday on African-American art. The
speech was titled “Breaking the Chains:
African American Women and Images of
Emancipation.”

In her speech, Simpson analyzed sev-
eral pieces of African-American art, in-
cluding both sculpture and print works.

Along the way, she provided historical
commentary on the background of each
piece and the artist who created it.

She frequently invited audience mem-

bers—including philosophy professor ‘

James Mahon, history professor Ted DeL-
aney and Dean Tammy Futrell—to give
their personal “read” on the messages the
artwork conveys.

Simpson particularly highlighted re-
cent works relevant to emancipation, in-
cluding those of Mary Edmonia Lewis, a
female sculptor of both African-American
and Native American descent.

Lewis, who studied classical sculpture
in Rome, employed the neoclassical style
to create her famous “Forever Free,” an
1867 sculpture celebrating the passage
of the 13"‘ Amendment, which abolished
slavery.

“Forever Free” depicts a freed slaved
holding up his shackles in triumph while a
female companion kneels in prayer at his
right.

The audience speculated on the ﬁgures’
lack of overt African-American features
and the position of the male hand on the
female’s shoulder.

They questioned whether it was mere-
ly affectionate or could be seen as oppres-
sive.

Patriarchal themes were also identiﬁed
in Washington, D.C.’s “Emancipation”
statue, which ‘ depicts Abraham Lincoln
reading the Emancipation Proclamation to
a kneeling slave.

The model for the slave was Archer Al-
exander, the last slave captured under the
Fugitive Slave Act.

Throughout the lecture, Simpson em-
phasized the various ways in which eman-
cipation art “interacts with the audience.”

“Sculpture is a ‘high language’ of cul-
ture,” she said. W

Above all, the contemporary nature of
the works revealed the hopes and dreams
of a generation taking its ﬁrst steps away
from a history of oppression and into an
uncertain future.

Said Simpson: “We get strong ideas of
agency. . .of [the subjects] being partici-
pants in their emancipation.”

The talk was the latest in the Chavis
lecture series on African-American stud-
ies named after John Chavis, the ﬁrst Afri-
can- American student at W&L.

Phi Psi awaits punishment

Future Johnson scholars may enjoy a restricted three-day agenda

By Jacob Geiger
MANAGING eonon

Two weeks after a tequila party at
a Phi Kappa Psi off-campus house left
a Johnson Scholarship candidate in the
hospital, the fraternity is waiting to
hear the disciplinary consequences it
will face from the university.

The party occurred Tuesday, Feb.
26, just hours after nearly 160 high
school seniors had arrived on campus
for the three-day, tvvo-night competi-
tion.

Erin Hutchinson, the senior assistant
director of admissions and the scholar-
ship program’s coordinator, said the
last scheduled activity for the ﬁnalists
was a panel discussion with current
students that ended at 9 p.m.

Inter-fratemity Council President
Chris Womom said the council has
completed its investigation of the party
and handed recommendations on pun-
ishment over to the Student Affairs
Committee, a group of students, faculty
and administrators that hears all frater-
nity disciplinary cases that involve the
possibility of critical probation, sus-
pension or dismissal of a fraternity.

Womom would not say what pun-
ishment the IFC suggested.

The SAC hearing is scheduled for
Wednesday, March 19.

Phi Psi President Carson Bruno
said he would not be able to comment
on the case until the SAC hearing has
been completed. -

The fraternity suspended pledgeship
almost immediately after the incident
and quickly initiated the freshmen.

President Ken Ruscio said he had
just arrived in Atlanta for an alumni

meeting and Omicron Delta Kappa
convention when he got a message
from Dean of Students Dawn Watkins
about the incident.

‘‘I was on the verge of coming back
to Lexington,” Ruscio said. _

“It was very disheartening and
disappointing, because it seemed like
the action was so clearly out of align-
ment with the [scholarship] program’s
goals.”

Ruscio said the incident may force
the university to be more explicit about
what activities prospective students
and their hosts are allowed to partici-
pate in.

He said he regretted that additional
regulations might be a necessity but
noted the importance of the Johnson
Scholarship program.

“This is destined to be the signature
program for W&L in the admissions
area,” Ruscio said.

The program brought about 160
ﬁnalists to campus to compete for 44
scholarships that cover tuition, room
and board during a student’s time at
W&L.

The program, in its ﬁrst year, was
created after alumnus Rupert Johnson
donated $100 million to the school last
spring.

Hutchinson said the Admissions
Ofﬁce has not yet started its annual re-
view of the scholarship program.

She said the department will begin
the review after its spring busy season
settles down.

Offers of admission are about to go
out to all regular decision students on

April 1, and March is always a popu-
lar month for high school students on
spring break to tour the university.

Both Ruscio and Hutchinson said
they were disappointed that the hospi-
talization had overshadowed the other
candidates and the otherwise succes.
ful weekend.

Ruscio said he hopes the incident
will help current students address risky
or dangerous party behavior.

“What this incident did was open
our eyes to the risks we sometimes
don’t see on a day-to-day basis,” Rus-
cio said.

“What we accept as routine is some-
times based on bad. judgments.”

C
A note on last week’s article

The March 3 article noted that
the scholarship candidate was
staying with a member of the swim
team and offered a confusing ex-
planation of the swim team’s re-
cruiting policy.

The candidate was not on an of-
ﬁcial swim team visit.

He was staying with a mem-
ber of the swim team, because the
Admissions Ofﬁce was short of
hosts. .

When swimming recruits are
on official visits, each one signs a
contract that states the recruit will
not consume alcohol during the
visit.

Presents

  THREE 6' M/4F//4

Featuring Blount Harvey

 

Washington and Lee University Pavilion
Wednesday, March 12, 2008

4d

Doors Open 8pm
Opening act 9pm
Show at 10pm

Tickets: $10 W&L community; $20 Public
Available in the Commons, at the door and online

www.GA3.wlu'.edu

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2008

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

By Joel Poelhuls
STAFF WRITER

This Spring Term, freshmen will be able
to explore different disciplines and depart-
ments through 12 new seminars offered by
the university. Open only to ﬁrst-year stu-
dents, these courses will be “reading and
discussion-based with an emphasis on pa-
pers, projects, studio work, or hands-on ﬁeld
experience rather than exams,” according to
the University Registrar’s website. Most of

“Instead of being in a class of

25-3 0, you can be in a class
of 15. ”

ERIC HAMSCHERI Class of 2011

the classes have a 12-15 student limit, though
a philosophy class on the concept of honor
currently has 26 students enrolled.

Freshman-only seminars were ﬁrst of-
fered last Spring Term and again in the fall
of 2007.

Sophomore Kimber Wiggs took the ﬁrst-
year seminar Music 180: The Human Voice
last spring. She said Professor Gerald Myers
mixed lectures with student—taught classes
and interactive activities, such as measuring
the resonance of students’ voices.

“It was easy to do the exercises with a
few people in the class,” Wiggs said.

Wiggs was interested in taking the course
because of her involvement in University
Chorus. She said the class focused as much
on anatomy as on music, offering an interdis-
ciplinary approach to the topic of singing.

Professor Allison Bell is offering An-
thropology 180: Oral History as a freshman
seminar this spring. She said the course
grew out of research she has been pursuing

into rural communities, and the way their so- _

cial interactions change with modernization.
Students in her class will be assigned in pairs
to interview a local farmer about the changes
through social and agricultural history in
Rockbridge and Augusta Counties.

Bell, a Washington and Lee alumnus, said
she ﬁrst became interested in Anthropology
during an Anthropology course she took
spring term of her freshman year.

“It was the ﬁrst time it [the class] took
the academic experience outside the class-
room.”

Bell said upperclassmen interested in the
seminar topic could possibly explore it as an
independent study or audit, and should speak
to the University Registrar or the Dean of the
College.

Freshman Eric Hamscher plans to take
ﬁrst-year seminars for both of his spring
term classes. He voiced his interest in the
smaller class size provided by the seminars
and increased one-on-one time with the pro-
fessors.

“Instead of being in a class of 25-30, you
can be in a class of 15,” he said.

Hamscher said small class size is harder
to find in the entry-level classes, which most
freshmen take, than in the upper-level class-
es later on.

r=>rar_=_MruM
ROAST

lCED

©2008 McDonald’s

  COFFEE

  ooono vounsr.

Get to know your creamy, cold and delicious new

best friend. lt’s an affordable, anytime perk-me-up. 
». i’m lovin’it‘’‘'

. Spring term options expanded

Twelve freshman seminars will encourage reading, discussion with small class size

     
     
  

Listof 

 computer some 8

   

 7 Stud

  a.

 
  

  
 
  
 
 
 
  

 

  19594  
 P0verty191A 

 Eéckley    L  0. L
 ,irRe1igion 1-so Ive

  

  

  

 

{£_Dieisc.ri‘ptions of tliegoiﬁuriii
fQ"ihttp://registia2f.wii::.e£ii!  V _

»v...o

REGULAR - HAZELNUT - VANILLA

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI -4

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2008

opinions

 

Texas, Ohio results topsy-turvy

Results, with the chance to end agony, extended most inconclusive primary ever

By Cody Beauchamp
co LUM msr

On March 4, Texas and Ohio
had their turn in the national spot-
light.

A huge win in either state or
a pair of small wins and Obama
would be destined to be the Dem-
ocratic nominee.

What did the two states do?

They went for Hillary Clinton,
and in doing so prolonged what
will surely go down as one of the
longest, most indecisive primaries
ever for the Democrats’ presiden-
tial nod.

Obama went into the prima-
ries (which included primaries in
Rhode Island, Vermont and, con-
fusingly, a caucus in Texas) on an
ll-contest winning streak.

But these wins were relatively
unimportant; none of them were
delegate-rich states.

Virginia and Maryland were
the big prizes of the collection
(200 delegates combined).

But even together they barely
put more delegates up for grabs
than Texas alone (193 delegates).

Still, Obama’s wins had
chipped away at Clinton’s del-
egate lead -- so much so that by

the time Ohio and Texas arrived,
it was do or die time for Hillary.

In Texas and Ohio, where she
had previously commanded dou-
ble—digit leads in the polls, Clin-
ton had to fend off Obama.

She did, and the Democratic
race remains undecided.

So what’s a Democrat to do?

It depends. Which candidate
are you rooting for?

If you actually support Clin-
ton, which I suppose is possible,
theoretically, you’ve got a few
things to hope for.

[Disclosurez If it’s not already
obvious, the author voted for
Obama in the Texas elections.]

The ﬁrst thing to hope for is
that the super-delegates don’t
jump ship and support Obama in
an effort to end the ﬁght quickly.

This is an increasing concern
for Clinton. The reasoning is that
the super-delegates tied to states
may decide to vote in step with
their states.

This might happen because no
attractive rationale exists for su-
per-delegates deciding whom to
vote for.

Neither Clinton nor Obama
are deﬁnitively left of the other.

They are both running, whether
by design or accident, on ideas
about themselves.

Obama is the “hope” candi-
date; Clinton is the “experienced”
candidate.

Neither platitude gives a su-
per-delegate more than a gut feel-
ing to go on, and after eight years

wins than Clinton has had in her
15 states.

The numbers as they stand
now, plus Obama’s ability to at-
tract record numbers. of voters in
red states, may be all most super-
delegates need.

Clinton has two more things
to hope for. First, a huge win

Neither [candidate] gives a super—delgate

more than a gut feelilng to go on, and after

eight years out of the White House, Democrats

are uncomfortable determing their candidate

based on gut feelings.

out of the White House, Demo-
crats are uncomfortable deterrnin-
ing their candidate based on gut
feelings.

Obama can make the argument
that if the super-delegates care
about what they have said—and
keep in mind the Democrats have
always been big on listening to
the people’s voice—then he is the
clear best pick.

He has won 28 states and had
more double—digit wins in those

in Pennsylvania and then North
Carolina and Kentucky would be
enough to get her back in it.

The next contest, Mississippi,
is already likely Obama’s, so her
best strategy looks a lot like her
recent stands in Texas and Ohio.

She needs to dig in her heels in
the delegate-rich states and chip
away at Obama’s lead.

If she makes it to the conven-
tion like this, then she has as good
a chance as ever at winning over

the deciding super-delegates.
Remember that the Clintons

‘have made a lot of careers in pub-

lic life and the Democratic Party.

A brokered convention is
quickly turning into an ideal sce-
nario for Clinton.

For Obama, momentum is key.
Thanks to the maddening pro-
portional allotment scheme the
Democratic Party uses to assign
delegates, Obama can still lose in
upcoming states and be ﬁne.

For instance, as long as he
doesn’t lose big he can theoreti-
cally pick up just as many dele-
gates as Hillary in Pennsylvania.

He would not have to cam-
paign as hard as she for the same
number of delegates, something
that is a decided advantage for
him.

Given that she is forced to
stand her ground in the must-win
states, Obama can expand his lead
by picking up a wide majority of
delegates in the “less important”
contests.

He has the luxury. of cam-
paigning where he wants.

There are other X-factors that
could bring a swift end to the
nomination battle.

The ever ﬁckle super-delegates
are certainly one of these.

But even more interesting is
John Edwards.

Edwards has been out of the
race for what seems like an eter-
nity. And, he has not endorsed a
candidate.

He never had a shot at winning
the nomination.

But now, he could determine
who does by endorsing either
Clinton or Obama.

He was a consistently strong
third-place ﬁnisher.

Now, Edwards could be what
sways the nomination.

As of now, no Democratic
leader has a more potent endorse-
ment in their pocket than Ed-
wards.

Welcome to the Democratic
nomination ﬁght of 2008——a
topsy-turvy world where you can
lose but effectively win, where
white men don’t have a shot at
the White House, where guessing
is as good as the facts, and losers
could decide the winners.

FD isn’t"the only thing that
went through the looking glass in
2008.

Consequences for what we say

Gauge meanness by possiblizy for school punishments such as time outs, spankings

By Grace Andrews
STAFF WRITER

Today’s topic is one that I feel
needs to be discussed, and that’s
unnecessariness. Let me explain:
unnecessariness is the an of do-
ing or saying something that is of
little importance, based on specu-
lations or unnecessary to life and
its vital processes.

Recently, a bracket containing
some mean and hurtful comments
was published. Sadly, many peo-
ple were named in the article and
had their feelings hurt deeply by
the information. The administra-
tion quickly admonished those
responsible and publicly con-
demned such behavior.

However, I think the entire sit-
uation speaks to another issue we‘
have on campus : the lack of com-
mon courtesy. What we need is
an overhaul of attitudes. I myself
don’t live in a dream world full of
Teletubbies, rainbows, unicoms

or dancing ﬂowers frolicking
through a ﬁeld, but I do believe
that being unnecessarily harsh
toward others constitutes a gross
waste of time and energy.

Seriously, we are all supposed-
ly adults here and should conduct
ourselves as such. The bracket
shows to what extent people can
and will go to hurt others. This
is what I like to call unnecessari-
ness. Not only do neither 1 nor
the rest of our student body need
to read salacious items in the pa-
pers or magazines that we cur-
rently have, but it misrepresents
us to other readers such as par-
ents, professors and fellow citi-
zens of Lexington.

More troubling is the fact that
this unnecessariness perpetuates
itself into our daily lives. For in-
stance is it really necessary to ask
people that you do not know well
things such as ﬁnancial status, ra-
cial make-up, romantic life, party

habits or anything remotely per-
sonal? Honestly, we know when
our comments do not add to con-
versations or help make others
feel better, so why say it? Fine,
tell your best friend, but why
publish something that will make

your body language and expres-
sions too!

For some people reading this,
that may require you to super glue
your mouth shut and/or put your-
self on speech probation for the
rest of your natural life.

Luckily our lives are not soap operas or an-

other episode of Gossip Girl, so don ’t treat it

as such. There will be no dress rehearsals or

director is cuts; this is real-life.

others feel uncomfortable on their
own campus?

The two golden rules are deﬁ-
nitely applicable in every situ-
ation: treat others as you would
like to be treated, and if you don’t
have anything nice to say, don’t
say anything at all. That goes for

That may be necessary for
people to stop partaking in unnec-
essariness. I’ve decided after the
situation on our campus that life
is too short for anyone to keep do-
ing so. Luckily, our lives are not
soap operas or another episode
of Gossip Girl, so don’t treat it

Death of traditions

By Abel Delgado
STAFF WRITER

There’s a part of me that
wants to defend the right of col-
umnists, of anybody really, to
write whatever they wish.

I strongly believe in freedom
of speech and think government
or institutional censorship ends
up hurting society more than it
does it any good. A part of me
wants to defend “The Bracket”
as an exercise in free, albeit
gross and insensitive, protected
speech but then I remember
where I am.

Both the writers of the Tri-
dent who came up with the dis-
tasteful attempt at comedy and
I write for the Washington and
Lee community.

Last I checked, this was a
community where honor and
civility still meant something if
not everything. President Rus-
cio and the heads of the EC and
SJC did an exemplary job in the
letter to the school explaining

I Honor, civility, decency used to mean something here

as such. There will be no dress
rehearsals or direc_tor’s cuts; this
is real-life and there are conse-
quences for what we say.

Now, I’m not saying don’t
vent to your best friend about that
archnemesis of yours or complain
about who has been ‘bothering
you and why, but don’t tell ev-
eryone. The entire student body
is not your best friend nor are the

‘people on your Facebook list.

It’s time people stopped be-
littling others and then feigning
ignorance. If you have something
to say to someone, take them
aside and enter into discourse
like big boys and girls. This isn’t
preschool and you won’t make
friends on the playground by talk-
ing about their mamas, pulling
hair and then pushingathem out
of the swing. I may be wrong,‘ but
doing that now may just get you
assault charges.

However, the point of my rant

is this: life is short, and you’re not
going to love everyone you meet.
That’s ﬁne, but don’t be ugly and
speak terribly of people you dis-
like to everything that breathes;
control yourself and watch what
you say. Just don’t partake in un-
necessariness; if you think that
what you are about to do or say
is going to hurt the feelings of
someone you don’t really know,
let it go.

I think you should use grade
school punishments as the ulti-
mate gauge for unnecessariness.
For instance, if something you
said would result in a) having
a time out, b) being spanked by
the principal or your parent, or
c) being jumped after school by
the other kids, then you probably
shouldn’t say or do it.

Employ these methods, and
let’s see if life for everyone, you
included, doesn’t improve!

that this community deserves
and demands better than what
this article gave. Sure, things
have changed but have they re-
ally gotten that bad?

Not only was the “The
Bracket” blatantly misogynistic
and homophobic, it called out
members of the community in
ways no one really deserves. It
was also a lame and lazy attempt
of humor, hashing out old gos-
sip that had died months ago.

I have to question the judg-
ment of any editor that would
let this appear on his or her
newspaper as much as I’d ques-
tion the “columnists” who came
up with it. A

I always considered The
Trident more of a tabloid or a
gossip magazine than a newspa-
per. That’s not to say they don’t
serve a necessary, purpose.

A lot of their articles are
especially entertaining and I
always pick one up to read the
latest “Lex in the City” or “Best

Week Ever.” Entertainment is
what The Trident does best, and
it’s sad to say a lot of people
probably found the “The Brack-
et” entertaining.

But at what cost? The public
humiliation of fellow students
in writing and on record that can
be used against them years from
now (maybe sooner than later,
like when they are applying for
jobs)?

The Raging Intelleetuals
usually seem bitter about some-
thing, but who knew they were
bitter enough to throw slime
around the school with no re-
gard for the consequences?

The article didn’t just cross
the line,'it completely ignored
the fact that the line exists. I
would never equate spreading
gossip to an honor violation,
but wasn’t it Robert E. Lee who
said the sole requirement was to
act “gentlemanly”? If that be the
case, then I know a couple of
guys the former General would

have loved to show the door to.

No, the writers should not be
kicked out or even punished by
the school for this. In the end,
unless someone sees this as
a case of libel, colunmists al-
ways have the right to write in
poor taste. We as a community,
though, have a right and an obli-
gation to call them out on it.

Everyone has to recognize
whoever could come up with
this Bracket is a jerk, and I’m
censoring myself from using a
more ﬁtting word.

If they want to add me as
a late entry to The Bracket or
ridicule me for criticizing them,
so be it. It’d be fun to see if the
people who hate on everybody
can handle a little criticism.

A lot has changed in this
school the past few years; a lot
of old traditions have died. But
decency is not something we
should ever let go of, not even
for a cheap laugh.

Timber Ridge Atsto Center
runs; \i”a1‘Iey me
iLe:s:"ington. VA ;?.£l-*3.:3*I.)

{Ear} -c-1r3e-- 1 99“?

 

.s’/«SE91: §€.?§?%E res; ’\JE*;3|£<N53

¥7o1“eigin and l‘)omesti:.: l{.epz1i:'s
Ctil <::.%12mga zimi 1..ubc:., .2’-‘s...«“'£".‘_. Cozitgmtszzr“ §..}l.{if.g.I§£??3ili?§‘>.
iM..iaor zinti Pvfzrjar‘ t?1:2git2:.: §~%.e:p.<1£s'_. §3z:::E~:s:ts,
Fae? lrzjectéen Ser‘xri.e.e. Tr:rz:‘:.:=;s.ni:;sior: Service,
{.30-oEz.111‘t Flush, .l*xl’.ino;f.a:1.ti l\”l213;(i}Tl”lll..ll‘§€1f -~---Laps.
We #.‘.£3.l'i pr's3vi<§e §:"actor}»’ 21tztlio2’i;z€:t§ i‘I‘£€li§'tlx;“..‘i‘s’£l3'1{I<‘:
w%t§'aoi'zt voiding yc:ainf i'rizr.rn:§a.cita*e”3 W£1I‘?'t§§llfy‘.

 

  

Oil Exchange & Lube

754 North Lee Hwy.
-Across from Tractor Supply
540-463-5020

Save $1.00 — Show W&L ID

 

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 5

 

opinions

WASHINGTON AND Lsi: UNIVERSITY

T’I‘I171l1“_=.—lRI1\i(3r-'rUili PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-TUM PHI to accurately,
truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting the Washington and Lee
community for students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable.
Through our reporting, we aspire to spark discussions that lead to
discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the undergraduate school
year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a member of The Media Board, but is otherwise
independent. Questions or concerns about the Phi should be addressed
to the editors at phi@wlu.edu or to the Media Board at mediaboard@wlu.
The Media Board is an independent, student—run editorial oversight
committee working with all media outlets on the Washington & Lee campus.
All inquiries will remain confidential. THE RING—TUM PHI welcomes all
letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions for content and length.
Letters and advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-
TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

edu.

and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI

UNIVERSITY commons ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540)458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JACOB GEIGER
JESSICA SHAW
GRACE WANG
ALLISON CHOPIN
STACEY GRIJALVA
SACHA RAAB
MICHAEL KEENAN
WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN

GRACE ANDREWS
CODY BEAUCHAMP
KEVIN CORN
ABEL DELGADO
HANK NATHAN
WES O’DELL

JOEL POELHUIS
RUSS WEEMS
QUEENIE WONG

LARA JORDAN
LENORA NUNNLEY

CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

Harmful to all

Writers abuse First Amendment freedom

By Jacob Geiger
MANAGING EDITOR

By now, many of you are prob-
ably tired of reading the denuncia-
tions of The Trident and the bracket
column written by Tim Livings-
ton and Myke Mulhem. But as a
newspaper editor who’s dealt with
controversial articles before, I

wanted to add my thoughts on the _

column, the president’s response
and student reaction.

College newspapers, of course,
are fundamentally different than

off-campus houses.

Past versions of the bracket
have highlighted some of the dou-
ble standards that are so common
at W&L, providing valuable and
necessary social commentary.

In this year’s version, however,
any useful commentary is lost in
a sea of mean, bitter and personal
attacks. Tim and Myke turned in
an appallingly unethical article.
As newspaper columnists, they
should remember that we have a
duty to avoid unnecessary harm.

     

    
 
   
 
 

Q  This Spring 

 Sift’ ‘73'mherh‘ne/

  S the Beach
I the Snow is within Reach

   / lm

- Group Rates
Starting at

$89 a Night
Midweek

The packages include

skiing, slope.-side bunkhouse
lodging and free ski rentals.
other lodging available thru

1-800-392-0152.

Timberline is
an excellent location
for spring sorority or

fraternity formals
in April or May.

We offer beautiful

slopeside facilities

for banquets with

nearby lodging.

 ......""’"\

 

FOUR SEASONS FIEALTY

erﬁnet

  

 

    

 

  wesivirgrnia

W/ild and Vi’/rlzrcirngf

 

“Normally, ‘I ’m an ardent defender of free

speech, but I can ’t see how publishing those

attacks served any real purpose. This wasn’t

speech  It was an attack on 65 people. ”

normal newspapers. We have the
opportunity to write about things
that would never appear in a regu-
lar paper. The Trident, with its
slate of columnists, offers some
hilarious — but often quite accurate
— social commentary about Wash-
ington and Lee.

Let’s be honest; we’re a school
with our share of problems. We’re
also a school that likes to sweep
those problems — unacceptably
high rape rates, hazing, alcohol
abuse, sexism and homophobia
~ under the rug.

Students would really prefer to
pretend that the idealistic academ-
ic setting, where everyone works
and studies. together, extends into

 

Writing a column that leaves
people insulted, upset and offend-
ed certainly fails to meet that stan-
dard. Writing about someone’s
sexual habits or sexuality doesn’t
do anything other than expose you
as a jerk.

This is not the ﬁrst year the
bracket has run. It’s been an an-
nual occurrence, and it has often
left people upset. .

But none of the previous brack-
ets have necessitated a letter from
the president or special meetings
hosted by the dean of freshmen.
None of the previous brackets
have caused people to threaten a
lawsuit against The Trident.

Again, it’s possible to provide

reditorial

readers with humor and social
commentary without insulting and
denigrating fellow students.

That column fails that standard.
Normally, I’m an ardent defender
of free speech, but I can’t see how
publishing those attacks served
any real purpose. This wasn’t
speech or even really satire; it was
an attack on 65 people.

The president has called on
Tim, Myke and editor Christina
Pratt to resign. I don’t think that’s
going to give everyone the answers
they want. If people in the bracket
want their grievances addressed,
there are a host of legal options
available to them. Use real judges
and juries, not the student-faculty
hearing board. A W&L-sponsored
trial is not going to give anyone a
fair shake.

This has been a difficult few
weeks for W&L. Sadly, this col-
umn is yet another situation where
nobody comes out looking good.
Nobody wins in this situation.

The people in the bracket have
been ridiculed in front of their
peers, not to mention the parents
that subscribe to this publication.

The other writers in the Trident
have seen all of their work — much
of it funny and highly relevant
— eclipsed by this one issue. And
the writers have shown that they
enjoy humiliating other people.
That’s the real problem here.
Good writers don’t humiliate and
needlessly embarrass people.

‘We’re supposed to be focused
on avoiding harm, but Tim and
Myke apparently set out to cause
harm rather than avoid it.

Where have all Lee’s
gentlemen gone?

Series taints tradition of honor; destroys
morals, values that deﬁne the university

Where have all the gentlemen
gone?

General Lee reputedly said
that “we have but one rule here,
and it is that every student must
be a gentleman.” This has stood
as the foundation on which ev-
erything else at_ this institution is
based.

The Honor of this school ex-
tends far past the classroom and
simple academic integrity; it be-
comes a part of who we are. There
is a culture present here at Wash-
ington and Lee that is absent in
most other institutions in the na-
tion.

And that is the unspoken
pledge by all members of W&L
community to treat each other
with respect and dignity.

Opening The Trident last
Thursday, it would be hard to
believe that we are in any way a
community or that there is any-
thing special about a W&L gradu-
ate.

The image of Lee’s gentle-
man was entirely thrown out the
window, and his legacy has been
trampled upon.

Last week represented the ﬁrst
round of the annual bracket to de-
termine who the worst person on
this campus is.

i The entire concept of holding
a “competition” to determine the
worst person in our small com-
munity is repulsive.

But this was far worse than
just that. This series of articles
has empowered a few very petty

people with a bully pulpit from
which to make fun of people they
simply do not like.

Let’s be honest. This is col-
lege. We all make mistakes and
do things that in retrospect, we
wish we never had done. This
is the last time in the rest of our
lives that we are free from major
responsibility.

But, there is absolutely no need
to humiliate your peers. Some of

The idea that something of
this nature would be printed in a
“newspaper” that at least operates
under the pretext of providing
news is ridiculous.

A list such as the one pub-
lished would have been much less
out-of-place being passed around
by middle school girls then in one
of the “newspapers” at one of the
finest schools in the country.

The students who wrote this

“The idea that somehow the series of ar-

ticles represented news or any form of an

educated opinion is ridiculous  Clearly,

there was no value to the article, and it had

1

no communal value. ’

the remarks may even have been
libelous.

The idea that somehow the se-
ries of articles represented news
or any form of an educated opin-
ion is ridiculous.

The students who wrote the ar-
ticle will surely shield themselves
from any fault by claiming free-
dom of the press.

J oumalists make choices about
what is news and what they are
free to print.

Clearly, there was no value to
the article, and it had no commu-
nal Value.

article represent everything that
W&L gentlemen should not do.
While they are the faces of this
debacle, they are not the only
ones guilty.

Every editor or writer that con-
tributed to it is just as responsible
and should be ashamed. .

The article may have been
tremendously ﬁinny, if you were
not in it. But it was mean. It was
two “men” picking on peers they
didn’t like.

They just did it under the guise
of news and with a larger audi-
ence.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI - 6

opinions

 

 

Last week’s bracket in The Trident caused lots
of readers to write in and share their thoughts

To the Phi:

This letter states my personal opinion and is not intended to represent anyone
else is views. I do not frequently read the student newspapers. However, I saw
"The Bracket" article in last week 3 Trident, and] was shaken by nausea and
-anger: The aforementioned article so egregiously and inappropriately demeaned
so many students that I feel compelled to write. While no member of the W&L
community deserves such nasty treatment, this was especially personal to me,
because many individuals who were demeaned are my former students, current
students, former‘ research group members, advisees, and younger siblings of
former advisees. I help teach Chem 111, and the principal joy of the course is
getting to know so many extraordinary young people, regardless of their science
proﬁciency. I have had so much support ﬂom so many former studentsfor so
long that my debt of gratitude simply cannot be repaid It would be criminal of
me not to return that loyalty and support now. Clearly, given the scope of the
article and the numerous friends and colleagues of the victims, every member of
the W&L community has been adversely impacted. That is simply, totally, and
completely unacceptable. Finally, to all of the students who were demeaned
(those I know and those I do not) and their friends and families, a heartfelt thank
you for contributing so much to our school and for helping make W&L such a
special place. Never forget’ that you are truly appreciated and valued.

Sincerely,
Di: Erich Uffelman

To the editor:

The Provost and the academic deans of the Law School, Williams
School, and the College want to express their outrage at the offen-
sive, tasteless, and callous article that targeted individuals by name
in this weeks edition of T he Trident. We call on the authors and
editors to issue an immediate apology in print to the individuals
themselves and to the campus communit_v as a whole.

signed:

June Apri/le, Provost

Robert Danforth, Associate Dean of the Law School
Hank Dobin, Dean of the College

Janet lkeda, Associate Dean of the College

Elizabeth Knapp, Associate Dean of the College

Larry Peppers, Dean of the Williams School

Rod Smolla, Dean ofthe Law School

Rob Straughan, Associate Dean of the Williams School

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING STUDIES-

l\/laste,r’s Degrees

Flexible full-time or part—time evening schedules

 

Public Relations

Strategic Public Relations I Integrated Marketing I Communications

Journalism

Cultural I Political/International I Advocacy I Immersion

 g nce
rnpact lives.

 

For more information visit scs.georgetown.edU/mps
as cal: 202.687.9100

NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE 2008 SUMMER AND FALL TERM

editor

To the editor.‘
As the campus authorities rise up together in outrage at The
Trident is “Bracket, ” I ’d like to remind everyone about the First
Amendment.

Ruscio suggested, in his broadcast e—mail, that The Trident
would hide behind the First as a shield, and said they don ’t
understand the freedom of the press.

I suggest the opposite ~ maybe none of the voices of outcry
understand the freedom of the press.

Here s how the freedom of the press works: anyone, not only
newspaper publishers, can say or print whatever they want.

T he forefathers were particular on this point, especially in the
criticism of governmental authority. Later, the freedom would be
expanded by the Supreme Court.

Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., in a dissenting opinion on a First
Amendment case, implied that the purpose of the amendment is
to create a marketplace of ideas, in which all ideas are present:
ed and then compete for truth.

It s Wikipedia, folks. If you read something that is not true, sign
in and ﬁx it.

If you read something you don ’t like, vote with your feet, or in
this case, your eyes. Censorship is never the answer — this isn’t
China. It is always The Trident is right to say whatever they
want. Its yours to decide whether what they print is okay.

To punish The Trident, discredit their ideas in the marketplace.
If you disagree with what they wrote, don ’t pick up another is-
sue. '
Tell Tim Livingston to his face you don ’t like what he wrote. Its
a little ridiculous that, on a campus this small, we're calling for
his head via broadcast mail. I heard some ﬁeshmen assembled
(in another use of the First Amendment) to demonstrate their
anger at The Trident. T hats certainly one way to go about it,
but some 20 kids aren ’t going to make a difference in the grand
scheme of our values. I

We, as a society of W&L students, need to decide together, col-
lectively, how we feel about “The Bracket. ” We need to decide
what our values are: is it okay for people to be terrible, and

not follow the “W&L values, " but not okay for someone else to
print it?

In 2003, the Dixie Chicks came forward and criticized President
Bush just before the invasion of Iraq. What followed is a beauti-
ful example of the people is control over the marketplace: people
decided they weren ’t interested in Natalie Maines ’opinion in
politics and asked their radio stations to stop playing Dixie
Chicks songs. Dixie Chicks concerts were poorly attended.
Their CDs didn ’t sell.

None of this was done through censorship. It was done through
the American people collectively deciding what they did and did
not want to hear.

T hats the American way to deal with the press. If you don ’t like
what The Trident dia', tell ‘em. Stop reading it. Write something
better.

 
      
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

  

Kat Greene
Society of Professional Journalists, student chapter president

 
 

Faviog Dress
1/wig WC be over,
but there's stiLL
reason. to dress vqsl

stop ba to sol/IeolvcLe a
pm otioe interview,
review it om. video, and get tips
on olress ooole, etiquette, avwl
freaiuevvtiij asleeol questions.

The perfect wag to prepare
gourseif...

W'AS}~II°NGTON AND LEF. UNIVERSITY

CAREER®SERVICES

 

 

as»  

3

 

  0 Congratulations to the Class of 2008!

-     GRAD FAIR

3-DAY ANNUAL UG GRAD FAIR

Wednesday, March 12"‘ M Friday, March 14*“
9:00 am. - 5:00 pm.

Atrium, Elrod Commons

T he time to celebrate the end of your four year joartzeyis fast approttcttittg!

From the azoozeat you ﬁt-st stepped on campus, you Iatew you were eateriag a most
specie! place. The deﬁaittg traditions of Washazgtoa and Lee Utlivetisity,‘
aeadeoztc rigor, sttateat seifgoveraaace and tives ateasarert by tmtl: and itrtegrtty
Rafi! mark you as hoaoraote area and women and leaders of the fatttrej As your
joamey comes to a dose and as you cetebrate your grarltratioa day on Jame 5”‘,
enjoy the memories of campus life, ajtemooas spent at Goshett., mites up Home
Mottataia, Fancy Dress and the n:aay_/?‘tieadsl1£p5 you have made. Cefebrate with
fem it y atzdﬂ-tends this special day! , 

ORDERING YOUR  
CAPS & GOWNS!

This is the ONLY opportzmtty to be

A F ﬁtted for your caps and gowns!
(which one purchases for $40.00}

   

Washington and Lee
Uaiyerst'ty

Engraved Chairs
Ann Chair or Rocker

"a lasting memory”

 

2008 Graduation photos
{Each graduate wtt! be ptzotograptzed as they
receive tttetr dtpfoata from the Uzziverstty

0 g . . I Pteaitfottl. Photos may be purchased at
The C131, C 1353 Rlnﬁ Pf2otoStore after graduation)

Seniors! Quality  , lined

Order in We ,0 wearfm. gmdMtm_; with a mat embossed with the University
  narnt: and crest are available at the Grad

. Fair and the Washington and Lee
i .   University Store

’ Photostore
photostore.wIu.edu  

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2008

 

arts&iife

 

101/.93/‘t EVOD  /L/rate lu/"L/at/‘tcgltaf

Students warm up a cold night with music, flavored
oxygen and a very large bunny who wandered the
crowd entertaining some, terrifying others and pos-
ing for pictures with everyone. This year, the com-
mittee wanted to change things up with the theme
of Through the Looking Glass, as opposed to last

COURTESY OF CHI OMEGA

Sophomore Kayla Rowe (far left) and junior Melissa Caron
(far right), pictured with freshman Kathleen Blackburn, led
the year’s chili-cookoff. The event raised over $12,000 for the
Make a Wish Foundation.

Chi 0’s Chili Cook-oﬂ will
help make a sick child is wish
come true-

By celeste Cruz-Carandang
STA F F W R I T E R

 

 

year’s traditional black and white gala for the 100th
anniversary of Fancy Dress. Popular DJ Duane sent
techno vibes through Doremus, while the live band —
the Voltage Brothers — jammed In the Warner Center.
Drinks were provided by a deck of cards, and students
relaxed on psychadelic, tie-dyed toadstools. And

ampus eats for good cause

The Chi Omega chili cook-off was a
spectacular success, raising over $12,000
for the Make a Wish Foundation, an orga-
nization that grants wishes to children with
life-threatening medical issues. Consider-
ing both the satisfaction of the students and
the amount of money raised, the chili cook-
off was a_ culinary and altruistic triumph.

The event was seemingly effortless.
However, the smooth and professional na-
ture of the cook-off was the result of weeks
of meticulous planning on the part of the
sorority. Melissa Caron, one of the event’s
planners, spoke about the efforts of Chi
Omega.

“We have a lot of different girls in our
sorority, and it was really a ﬁill-sorority ef-
fort. From decorating to invites, to adver-
tisement...all the girls contributed to the
success of the cook-off.”

Yet, the accomplishment of the affair
could not only be measured in epicurean
approval.

“The goal of it is to raise money for
the Make a Wish foundation,” Caron said.
“Hopefully we raise a lot of money for
them.” The donation was a collection of the
teams’ $50. entry fees, the price of admis-
sion and the money that went toward drinks
and activities such as the amusing cactus
throw game. -

In a competitive culinary spirit, several
teams paid the entrance fee and contributed
their take on the classic dish.

“We have 17 different teams participat-
ing, and I got a few e-mails last night saying
that a couple other organizations wanted to
enter. The enthusiasm of this community
has been incredible,” said Caron.

Indeed, several of W&L’s organizations
came out to support the event. The philan-
thropy chair of Chi Psi remarked, “It’s a
wonderful charity event for a great cause.
It’s a fun way to raise some money for a
very important charity. Chi 0 does a great
job with this every year and we got to be a
part of it.”

Indeed, the experience of the cook-off
enriched this small community in a variety
of ways. Hila Yashar, a member of Pi Beta
Phi, said, “It was a great bonding experi-
ence through a cooking extravaganza.” ‘Al-
though each organization was somewhat
partial to its own chili, they all consented
to try the dishes contributed by their com-
petitors. Evans Dining Hall was full of
mingling students, relaxing as they enjoyed
each others’ chili and listened to music.

Although the event was philanthrop-
ic, the chili was the main attraction. The
Kappa Alpha’s pledge chili received rave

reviews and had the honor of being one of A

The gym transformed into a wonderland, students danced the night away

3 sw ASSISA MAAIG Ei: . JR

everywhere you went, the Cheshire Cat was look-

ing down at you with his warm - or perhaps creepy

— smile. With this year’s ball in the bag, students will
no longer have to walk around campus and wonder
how the rabbit could possibly have believed six unbe-
lievable things before breakfast.

the most talked about chilis in Evans. The
dish included the obligatory chili and hot
sauce, a garnish of shredded cheddar and
a side of crumbling cornbread. Knowledge
Empowering Women Leaders also included
a side dish, but with its own interpietation.
Rather than serving a traditional cornbread
like their fraternity counterparts. Lauren
Sapikowski, a member of KEWL baked 31
delicious banana bread. Pi Beta Phi had a
daring and risky, albeit SCI"Lil11['Ili\iLlS. talie
on chili. Rather than including more ll'Ll(li -
tional ingredients, onions, vegetables and
several interesting spices took the place of
the time-honored ingredients. Jill Refveni.
a Chi O. freshman, insisted that “Chi Psi’s
chili warmed the soul...l gave it three at
my votes.” Despite Refvem’s compiiniciiza
to the fraternity, Stucco, Chi t'.).'s critiy,
warranted the greatest number of tlCl(f:l,
votes.

Despite the atrocious weather, the phil-
anthropic success of the cook-off was not
compromised. The sisters of (‘iii Omega
organized an event which enticed appetites
and warmed hearts. Although the tables of
food was an amazing sight to behold, the
most awe inspiring Vista was the C01Tl1D1l'-
nity that formed to support not only this
university, but a cause much greater.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2008

 

THE RING-TUM PHI - 9

sports

. No. 1 F&Mhaltsperfect 3-0 start  

Diplomats jump out to an early 5-0 lead, hang on for 7-4 victory on Saturday  

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

The women’s lacrosse team got
a chance to dominate a conference
opponent and then take on the top-
ranked team in Division III this
weak. After the expected easy win,
the Generals couldn’t overcome a
slow start against No. 1 Franklin &
Marshall.

The team started the week by
blowing out Hollins University 17-
1. The Generals dominated from
start to ﬁnish in nearly every statis-
tical category. W&L went out to a
4-0 lead in the ﬁrst 8 minutes and
led by a score of 10-1 at half time.
The Generals kept the pressure on

. in the second half, shutting Hollins

out and leaving the score at 17-1.
The win moved the Generals to 4-
0, 1-0 in conference coming into the
big F &M game.

The Generals had a balanced of-
fensive attack, which was reﬂected
in the box .score. Ten Generals
scored goals, and nine had assists.
Freshman midﬁelder Kate Donnelly
led the Generals with three goals
and two assists. ‘Meredith Freeman
and Megan Slosson both added
three goals and an assist. Katie
Flippen had two goals. Kelsi Rob-
inson led the team with 3 assists.
Sarah Tilbor and Katharine Farrar

Lax falls in

By Micheal Keenan
spoons EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
fought a tough game against the 11th ranked Shore-
men of Washington College but came up just short
as the Shoremen prevailed 12-11 in overtime. The
Generals were led by senior attackman Harry St.
John’s four-goal performance while Washington
College was led by Chris Read’s ﬁve goals and two

assists.

The Generals jumped out to a three goal lead in
the first quarter but saw their lead evaporate as the
the Shoremen responded by ending the half on a 4-
0 run to take a 6-5 lead at the break. The second
half was close throughout, with neither team gain-
ing more than a two goal advantage. The Generals
led 10-9 and 11-10 late in the game but Washington
College continued to rally. With just under three
minutes to play, Read scored an unassisted goal to
tie the game at l 1. Neither team was able to score in
the extra period until Washington College senior at-
tackman Kolyn Kirby found the back of the net with
under a minute to play to win the game.

The Generals fell to 2-2 on the season and will
return to action on Monday when it travels to face

Hood College at 4:00 p.m. '

 

split time in goal, only allowing one
goal between them.

The Generals had their tough-
est test of the season to date as they
took on No. 1 ranked Diplomats.
F&M quickly jumped out to a 5-
0 lead, looking like they deserved
their ranking. The Generals ﬁnally
got on the board when Kelsi Robin-
son scored with 10:19 left, assisted
by Emily Matthews. The Diplo-
mats then added another score to
make the game 6-1 going into the
half. After the break, the Generals
came out strong. They scored the
ﬁrst three goals of the half. This
cut the margin to 6-4. However, the
Diplomats scored with 7:29 to play
to make the score 7-4. The Generals
kept ﬁghting for the rest of the game
but couldn’t tally another goal. The
game ended 7-4, the General’s ﬁrst

I defeat of the season.

The Generals were led by Kelsi
Robinson’s one goal and one assist.
Megan Slosson, Laura Henson and
Christine Bender also had goals.
Emily Matthews had an assist.
Sarah Tilbor played all 60 minutes
in goal for the Generals making six
saves.

Washington and Lee returns to
action on Wednesday as it travels to
Roanoke for a 4:00 pm contest.

goals I 0

j Juimo Tfla

1.  3.€f°a‘$»

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Sophomore Britten Matthews added a goal but the Generals came up short in the loss to F&M on Saturday.

-sapnopaare wisi Keigler - 7

assists

5 IiniOr;IINie’d.Rider - 9 goals
‘ ntlz assists
f ..}unvior’E.Tim Skeen - Signals, 6

 St, gh‘n -' 9
a.1assis*t.
 setigrisnmams
...£Oa.|s Zassistsv  I ,

Scpljombr’ t-Deets Hoffman

4 assists

 

CONTINUING STUDIES

Master’s Degrees

Flexible full-time or part—time evening schedules

Public Relations

Strategic Public Relations I Integrated Marketing I Communications

Journalism

Cultural I Political/International I Advocacy I Immersion

For more mformatéan visit ’scs.georgetown.edu/mps

NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR TH

<31‘ cati 202.687.9100

E 2008 SUMMER AND FALL TERM

T

Generals come up short against 1 I th-
ranked Washington College I 2-II  

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Senior attack man Ned Rider tallied four goals for the Generals, but It was not

enough to secure the victory against Washington College.

Golf ﬁnishes 7th

Generals knock 0]?’ several top I 0 teams

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

The golf team spent Monday
and Tuesday away from campus;
instead, the team was in Pine
Mountain, Georgia, at Callaway
Gardens for the Callaway Colle-
giate Invitational. Out of a total
of sixteen teams, the Generals
ﬁnished tied for seventh.

The team was led by Senior
Nathaniel James who shot 76’s
both days for a grand total of
152.

‘‘I managed to control the

damage on what could have
been two pretty bad rounds,”
commented James on his perfor-
mance. “I know what I need to
work on and felt like I’ll be ready
to compete at full speed at our
next event.” _

Senior Steven Spivey shot a
79 the ﬁrst day but came back
the next day four strokes better
with a 75 for a two-day total of
154. Sophomores Matt Langan

and Joe Gibson shot a 155 (80 on
the ﬁrst day, 75 on the second),
and 161 (83 the ﬁrst day, 78 on
the second), respectively. Fresh-
man Tim Gavrich shot a solid 81

“I know what I need
to work on and felt
like I ’ll be ready to
compete at full speed

at our next event. ”

Senior Nathaniel James,
captain ‘
 

on the ﬁrst day and an 80 on the
second for a total of 161.

“No ﬁreworks, but a newcom-
er to the team and travel squad

Matt Langan stepped it up for
us with a great second round,”
remarked James. “I look forward
to more good stuff out of him.”

Overall, the team can be very
happy with their performance in
southern Georgia. '

“We were up against some
really good competition,” said
James. “I think ﬁve of the top ten
teams in the nation were there,
as well as plenty more in the
top twenty ﬁve.” He continued,
“Our seventh place ﬁnish didn’t
hurt us any for the rest of the sea-
son as we only lost to one team
that was behind us in the rank-
ings. Finishing seventh meant
we knocked off a couple top 10
teams including the No. 1 team,
Oglethorpe.”

The Golf team will be back
in action March 21st and 22nd
when they travel to Jekyll Island,
Georgia for the Jekyll Island In-
tercollegiate.

 

 

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

sports

 

10

  

° THE RING-TUM PHI

  

      
 
 

WED Tuuns FRI SAT

   

 
  

at
Baseball '-V“°"""'g
Harrisbur 3:00 P m 12:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m
' V5. V5. y3_
M°"" Lynchburg Denison Ma”
T°'“‘" 4:00 p.m. 3:00 mm was}.
1:00 p.m.
at at V3-
Denlson
womﬂrs Roanoke HoIllns/ I
Tonnls 4:00 p.m. Lynchburg 4-00 pm-
4:00 p.m.
at L V5.
womgnvs Bridgewate Mary Wash
I-a¢r°85° 4:oo p.m. 2:00 pm-
at vs.
M on.‘ Hood F&M
4:00 p.m 12:00 pm-
Lacrosse
Golf arch 21-23
Jekyll island cdleglate
at
Track NCAA
indoors
March 20-22
s'”"“"""§ NCAA om meet

 

32

Years Drake has been a member of the Missouri Valley Conference be-

fore winning their first conference tournament this year.

4

Goals by senior attackman Ned Rider during the Generals 12-11 over-

time loss to the Shoremen of Washington College.

14/16

Points and rebounds for Phoenix Suns center Shaquille O‘Neal in their

94-87 win over the San Antonio Spurs on Sunday.

27.2’

The points per game average of VMI senior Reggie Williams, and the

highest average in D-I. Wii|iams’sjersey was retired by VMI last week.

box

“We've been on the other side of that before. Ob-

 

viousIy,.it’s not fun. It’s a big break for us.”

Plttsburg Penguins center Sidney Crosby on his being credited with
the game winning goal that Washington Capitals center Nlckias
Backstrom pushed into the goal in an attempt to clear the puck,
courtesy of espn.com

“I’m not Brett Favre. And if they're wanting me to
be the next Brett Favre, I'm not going to be him.
I’m Aaron Rodgers. That’s who I am.”

Green Bay Packers Quarterback Aaron Rodgers in a statement
released Saturday. Rodgers, drafted three years ago as the heir
apparent to recently retired Quarterback Brett Farve, has spent three
years toting a clipboard. He has appeared in seven games and thrown
just 59 passes, courtesy of sports|llustrated.com.

"First thing I said is, ‘He ain't coming back for no
coin toss. He’s going to be a ghost. That’s the
thing — he has to get away from the game for a
little while.”

Packers receiver Donald Driver on the possibility of Brett Farve coming
back for a ceremonial coin toss.

“We thought that maybe by his senior year he
could start for us. But I never had any idea he
could do this. He’s exceeded all of our expecta-
tions, kind of like our team has.”

Drake coach Keno Davis on the play of former walk-on and bench
warmer Adam Emmenecker who was recently named conference
tournament MVP in addition to already winning the regular-season
MVP of the Missouri Valley conference.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

Top: First Baseman Hunter Serenbetz goes after a pitch during Wednesday's game against Hampden-Syd-
ney. Serenbetz drove in James Madden to win Sunday's game against Virginia Wesleyan in the 16th inning.
Bottom: Catcher Will Lewis went 4-5 with 4 RBIs in Wednesday's win over Hampden-Sydney.

Team 3-] in ODAC after winning sixteen—inning game

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

The men’s baseball team
won an epic 6-5 battle in 16
innings Sunday afternoon to
defeat Virginia Wesleyan, the
team picked to ﬁnish ﬁrst in the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence this season. The Marlins
stonned back to win game two
of the doubleheader 11-1. That
game was called after eight in-
nings due to darkness.

The extra innings of game

one were ﬁlled with back and _

forth action before sophomore
First Baseman Hunter Seren-
betz drove home senior Right
Fielder James Madden with a
single to provide the winning
run. Serenbetz ﬁnished game
one 4-7 and was also hit by a
pitch.

Sophomore Jim Plantholt
nailed down the victory by get-
ting three outs in the bottom of
the 16th. Senior John Parker
ﬁnished the twelfth inning and
pitched innings 13, 14 and 15
to earn the win.

The split means that the
Generals have won nine of
their last ten games as they
came into the weekend with an
eight-game winning streak.

“We’ve won eight in a row
just by playing hard and ex-_
pecting to win every time we
step on the ﬁeld,” said captain
Steve Marcott before the week-
end’s games. “If we keep that
attitude this team has a chance
to do some things this year.

After defeating Southern
Vermont College by a combined

score of 28-2 in a double-head-
er last Sunday, the Generals
stepped back, into conference
play on Wednesday against the
Hampden-Sydney Tigers. In
the past three years, the Blue
and White are 1-7 against the
Tigers, but this year’s baseball
team returns a strong nucleus
of players and boasted a 9-2 re-
cord heading into the game.
Hampden-Sydney jumped
out to a fast start right from the
gate, scoring in the top of the
ﬁrst. The Tigers’ lcadoff hitter,
Alnor Rodriguez, reached ﬁrst

vancing the score to 3-1.

In the third consecutive in-
ning, the Generals notched an-
other run. This time though, Ju-
nior Byron Peyster hit a shot to
left ﬁeld that cleared the fence
for a home run. The long ball
was Peyster’s ﬁrst on the year
and also the ﬁrst homer of his
three-year career. While W&L
continued to build a lead, the
Tigers went cold, failing to
score another run until the ﬁfth
inning when they cut the lead
to 4-2 in favor of the Blue and
White.

“We ’ve won eight in a row just by playing

hard and expecting to win every time we step
on the ﬁeld If we keep that attitude this team

has a chance to do some things this year. ”

STEVE MARCOTT, senior pitcher and team captain

base on an error and eventually
came around to score. The Gen-
erals responded in the bottom
half of the inning on a double
by sophomore Will Lewis that
drove in two runners and gave
the team a 2-1 lead.

W&L added to that lead in
the second inning on another
RBI by Lewis. Sophomore John
Ditore led off the inning with a
single and scored the run, ad-

Hampden-Sydney narrowed
the lead to one in the top of
the sixth inning when Brendan
Clark loaded the bases with no-
body out, but the Tigers failed
to really capitalize, stranding
three runners on base as the
Generals got two outs at the
plate.

The Generals answered in
the second half of the frame on
back-to—back doubles by Lewis

and sophomore Hunter Seren-
betz to stretch the lead to 5-3.

The Tigers countered with
another run in the seventh,
but the surge was thwarted
by W&L, scoring two runs in
the eighth and shutting down
Hampden-Sydney the rest of
the way. The ﬁnal score was
7-4.

Lewis was 4-5 on the day
with four RBIs in the effort. He
was complemented by fellow
sophomores Ditore and Seren-
betz, who combined for six
hits and an RBI. Marcott won
his ﬁrst game of the year as the
starting pitcher, allowing only
one earned run in ﬁve innings.
The team is now ll-3 overall
and 4-1 in conference.

Serenbetz, Peyster and Di-
tore are part of a Generals in-
ﬁeld that graduated three start-
ers from last year’s team and
lost returning ﬁrst baseman
Andrew Henderson to a knee
injury during the opening road
trip to Georgia.

Peyster has especially big
shoes to ﬁll as he replaces sec-
ond baseman David Miller, who
during his career established
himself as one of the program’s
all-time leaders in hits and on-
base percentage.

Marcott said after the game
that the team wants to bring
home an ODAC title.

“The team’s goals this year
are the same as they are every
year: Get to the ODAC touma-
ment and win it,” said Marcott.

 

