 

O

 

  
 
 

 

THE RING-

when will we handlediversity right?

Cody Bsancltamp wonders wiayit  a big deal that a black woman was
crowned Homecoming Queen.‘ And he wondershow long It will be before the
administration stops constantly trurupstlng Its commitment to diversity.

cannons / Page 5

 

M PHI.

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

NUMBER 6

 VOLUME CXI,

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

The glass doors of Traveller buses have been kicked in by students, drivers have been verbally abused and
angry mobs of students have swarmed buses and cars. TraveIler’s leadership is promising to take action.

Malicious bus driver, insensitive students mark Homecoming

By Wes 0’Dell
STAFF wmren

The Traveller safe-ride system has been
plagued by several high-proﬁle incidents this
year, the most shocking of which occurred
earlier this month over Homecoming Week-
end.

In the early morning hours of Sunday,

.October 7, the central Traveller dispatcher
received a complaint claiming that a Travel-
ler Express bus driver was drunk on the job
and was charging students money to get off
the bus.

The dispatcher immediately contacted Ed
Bulger, the Public Safety Officer in charge of
Traveller oversight, and gave him the com-
plaining student’s contact information. Bulg-
er then conﬁrmed the report with the student
and took action.

“I had no reason to doubt him,” said Bulg-
er of the student report.

At 2 a.m. that morning, Bulger tele-
phoned the owner of Goff Transportation,
the bus company the school contracts with,
and reported the incident. The owner quickly

agreed to investigate the driver when he re-
ported back to his home base. He furthermore
explained that the driver in question was a
substitute who had gotten in trouble on other
routes for putting up a “tip box” in his bus.
The subsequent investigations conducted
by Washington and Lee University and Goff

“It was wrong, it hap-
pened, we hope it never

happens again. ”

ED BULGER, public safety officer
 

conﬁrmed the ﬁve separate complaints Trav-
eller received concerning that bus. The driver
had charged students a total of $26 that eve-
ning. to exit the bus, and had refused to let
some people leave until they paid up.

In a display of chivalry, one student self-
lessly paid a total of $20 to allow several of
his cashless peers to leave the bus.

The charge of drunk driving was never of-

ﬁcially conﬁrmed or denied, though Senior
Aisha Davis, an otherwise uninvolved party,
reported seeing a Traveller bus driving reck-
lessly that night.

For its part, Goff Transportation issued a
formal apology and didn’t charge W&L for
the bus that night. They also reported that the
driver is now “an ex-employee.”

“It was wrong, it happened, we hope it
never happens again,” said Bulger, who was
praised by the student complainants for his
quick action. _ '

Unfortunately, complaints of a drunk,
money-extorting bus driver were not the only
issues Traveller faced that weekend. Students
and alumni themselves caused their share of
trouble. ,

Traveller has a blanket policy of no bever-
ages on its buses. When one African-Ameri-
can bus driver told a student to either get rid
of his drink or get off the bus, the student re-
sponded with a racial slur and left the bus.

When the driver, a veteran army para-
trooper whom Bulger calls “one of the nicest

see “TRAVELl.ER" on page 3

- YouTube star preaches dating tips

Judson Laipply engages students in discussion on serious commitment

By Alex Scaggs

STAFF WRITER

ending list was introduced.

Before marriage, Laipply said, religion, al-

Judson Laipply, the star of the YouTube
video “The Evolution of Dance,” spoke about
dating in the Commons theater last Thursday.

“My goal is to raise your relationship I.Q.,”
he said. The speech was interactive and stu-
dent-driven.

Students had the opportunity before the pre-
sentation to write questions on index cards, and
Laipply took breaks to answer the anonymous
questions during the program.

There was even a “90-second blitz,” where
both women and men had their respective turns
to air their complaints about the opposite sex.

For anyone who has seen The Dating Doc-
tor in previous years, Laipply used an almost
identical program.

First, he asked students what issues they
thought could end relationships.

Students took turns giving answers like
alcohol(ism), sex, exes, politics and religion.

The audience laughed at outrageous com-
ments, but were silent when the relationship-

cohol, money, jealousy and sex are common
deal-breakers.

After marriage, children, relatives, jobs,
boredom and time concerns are common top-

“If someone texts you after I 0 p.m.
on a weekend, do not think that this
person wants to get in a relation-

ship with you. That is a sex text. ”

JUDSON LAIPPLY, dating speaker
 

ics of conﬂict.

“Yes,” he said, “the arguments keep on go-
ing after you get married, just about different
things. Relationships are work.”

Laipply repeated this message several times,
and he said that there are two parts necessary
to a long-term relationship: commitment to the

person and to the relationship itself.

While the many dating doctors (or danc-
ers, in this case) that grace the campus give
solid relationship tips, many students think that
Washington and Lee has an atmosphere that
isn’t conducive to most dating gurus.

“I don’t think he really understood the way
it is here at W&L,” said senior Samantha Hish-
meh, who attended a dinner with Laipply and
members of the Gender Relations Committee.

“We obviously have terrible gender rela-
tions, so I just don’t think that he got it.”

However, Laipply did address issues that
single W&L students can relate to.

“For God’s sake, if someone texts you after
10 p.m. on a weekend, do not think that this
person wants to get in a relationship with you,”
he said to knowing snickers from the crowd.
“That is a sex text.” '

He also brought up money issues say-
ing, “If you are dating someone and they re-
quire that you spend money on them and
buy them things every time you go out, drop

See “DATING” on page 2

Tu1t1on rlsmg
Ruscio claims increase needed to
address school is long-term goals

By Jacob Geiger
MANAGING emroa

Tuition at Washington and Lee has more than doubled in the
last 10 years, rising from $16,470 in 1998 to $34,650 this year.

And by the time room and board, books and other expenses
are counted, the Office of Financial Aid estimates that this year’s
cost of education is $47,300.

W&L President Ken Ruscio said the tuition increase was
needed to let the university address its long-term needs.

“Our tuition and costs were signiﬁcantly below our peers,"
Ruscio said. “Part of the Board [of Trustees’] reasoning was that
we had signiﬁcant needs in the future.”

But even with the increases, the university’s tuition remains
about $2,000 below the average tuition for the top 25 liberal arts
schools.

The board sets tuition each year after receiving a recommen-
dation from Steve McAllister, the vice president for ﬁnance.

Despite six years of 10 percent tuition increases, Ruscio thinks
middle class families can still send a child to W&L.

“There are middle class families who think they won’t qualify
for ﬁnancial aid but do,” Ruscio said. “We’re mindﬁil of the
squeeze on the middle class and part of it is that we need to tell
the story [of W&L’s ﬁnancial aid packages] better.

McAllister said the board began rapidly increasing tuition in
2001.

“Our student ﬁnancial aid was well below its peers,” he said.
“I guess over the last few years [tuition increases] have been 
trying to address strategic needs, especially more undergraduate
faculty and improvements to facilities.”

Ruscio said the increase in faculty, along with the need for
increasingly expensive scientiﬁc equipment, has driven up costs.
Students expectations have also risen.

“Higher education is just more complex, whether it’s student
health, security or science equipment,” Ruscio said.

McAllister, a university employee since 1993, has seen the
university make major improvements during his tenure.

“When I came here, the Science Center wasn’t complete,"
McAllister said. “There have been big improvements for the
arts, the University Commons and improvements for athletic fa-
cilities as well.”

Wilson Field, the General’s football and lacrosse stadium, is
scheduled for renovations this winter. The Colonnade will also
undergo major interior renovations during the next decade.

“There won ’t be lower tuition, because
the educational experience at Washington
and Lee won ’t change. Interaction with the

faculty won ’t change. ’

KEN RUSCIO, W&L Presldent

The inﬂux of new faculty has cut the annual teaching load
from seven courses to six, and Ruscio is currently proposing
changes to the school’s academic structure that could cut the load
even further.

Most top liberal arts colleges require faculty to teach ﬁve
courses a year, with some requiring only four.

Ruscio’s proposal

Earlier this fall Ruscio unveiled a plan to overhaul the univer-
sity’s academic life. He wants W&L to become a national leader
in discussions about liberal arts education.

Part of the plan calls for Spring Term to shrink from six weeks
to four. Students would focus on taking one intensive class dur-
ing the month-long term.

Ruscio wants faculty to vote on the plan before Christmas.
but even if the plan passes, the shorter school year won’t mean
lower tuition.

“There won’t be lower tuition because the educational experi-
ence at Washington and Lee won’t change,” Ruscio said. “Inter-
action with the faculty won’t change. One reason we’re looking
at this is we want to provide the opportunities we have now at the
level students expect.”

Under the new plan, 108 credits would be required for gradu-
ation. The current requirement is 115 credits, down from the 121
that were required for the Class of 2006. Ruscio said the lower
graduation requirements would not prevent students from taking
additional classes.

But retaining the old course load in a four week Spring Term
would force students to overload their schedules, taking more
credits than recommended by the school’s academic deans.

“All of those experiences we associate with academic quality
won’t change,” Ruscio said.

A major gift

Financial aid got a big boost this summer when Rupert John-
son, a Class of 1962 alumnus who is vice chairman of Franklin
Resources, donated $100 million.

The lion’s share of the money — $85 million — will be used to
pay the full educational expenses for 44 students in each future
class, starting with the freshman entering next fall. Some of the
slots will be merit-based, while others will be need-based.

See “AFFORDING” on page 2

 

  

unwegfa
H\NeT
WAS NGTON.

GET :23 6 Zlllil

2 o

THE RING-TUM PHI '

THURSDAY,

OCTOBER 25', 2007

 

Affording W&L

continued from page 1

Ruscio said the gift will also
allow W&L to virtually eliminate
loans from future ﬁnancial aid
packages.

Associate Dean of Admissions
Jonathan Webster said his oﬁice
expects the new program to help
more students discover W&L.

“We expect the program to
garner a lot of attention for W&L
,from students and parents  from
guidance and college counselors,
and will entice them to explore us
as an option, when they might not
have before.”

Webster says the Admissions
Ofﬁce works hard to get students
to apply for ﬁnancial aid. That
helps prospective students see
that the cost of W&L is some-
times less than that of schools

Dating advice

continued from page 1

them as soon as you can. They
have a hole in them that you will
not be able to ﬁll with presents
and expensive things.”

“I thought he was great,” said
freshman Jenna Finger.

“He was really funny, and ev-
eryone participated a lot.”

Participation was deﬁnitely a
high point of the program.

Students made comments that
ranged from witty to completely
inappropriate.

The student turnout was fairly
small compared to the turnout for
the Dating Doctor last year, but
that could have been because of
midterrns or the lack of publicity
surrounding the event.

The students that knew Laip-
ply from his YouTube video were
not disappointed.

To conclude his presentation,
he performed “The Evolution of
Dance.” , A .

He said he intends to release
“The Evolution of Dance 2” in
November.

Laipply ’s Five Characteristics
of a Healthy Relationship:

Justin Laipply gives advice
about the components of healthy
relationships to those currently in
relationships and those seeking
one.

Trust- “Trust is the foundation
and the building block for every
relationship--not just romantic.”

Respect— Mutual. Equal. Earned.

Intimacy- “Not sex... The small I

things in a relationship that you
share with that person and that
person alone.”

Passion- “If you’re dating some-
one, and there’s no passion, it’s
like dating your brother or sister.
Believe me. I’ve tried.” (cue the
West Virginia jokes)

C0mmitment- “Both the rela-
tionship and the person. Things
are going to change. Why? Life
is change.”

Laipply’s Guide to Knowing if
Someone is Interested:

The quicker they want to have
sex, the less long-terrn plans they
have for you.

If they say ‘let’s date other peo-
ple,’ beware, as often, we don’t
really share what we intend to
keep.

Observe the way they treat people
around you. That’s likely to be the
way you end up being treated.

The more personal information
they offer, the more badly they
want to get to know you.

If they are willing to alter their
life to accommodate you, you
matter to them.

with a lower tuition price.

He did say, however, that high
costs had not deterred students
from applying to W&L’s binding
early decision programs.

Rising tuition, of course, is not
a phenomenon isolated to W&L.
Webster said the high cost of pri-
vate schools around the country
has made prospective students
and their parents want more infor-
mation up front about the colleges
they are considering.

“I suspect that the rising cost
of higher education is partly re-
sponsible for the fact that stu-
dents these days apply to a lot of
colleges,” Webster said. “Some
of our applicants apply to 10 or
more other schools.”

A student perspective

Junior Jen Lysenko is a George
Washington Scholar, the Wash-
ington merit scholarship that will

be folded into the new Johnson
Scholarship program.

Lysenko, a biology major, says
the scholarship was instrumental
in getting her onto W&L’s cam-
pus.

“I applied to nine schools,”
Lysenko said, “and W&L was
the only one I applied to without
looking at it. The [George Wash-
ington] interview weekend made
me want to come.”

Lysenko said the visit sold her
on W&L even before she won the
scholarship. But the scholarship
has continued to open up new op-
portunities for her.

“I’m trying to go to dental
school after graduation,” Lysenko
said. “It would be an awful lot
of debt to get myself into, but the
scholarship has been a huge help
ﬁnancially because now I have
money for dental school that I
would have spent on undergradu-

 

ate tuition.”

Using money that she didn’t
have to spend on tuition, Lysenko
spent last Spring Term studying
abroad in Italy. Just weeks after
remming to the United States,
she turned around and ﬂew to Mt.
Kilimanjaro for a two-week trip
with the W&L Outing Club.

Lysenko said the African trip
was the “best experience of [her]
life.”

What’s in store

Ruscio and McAllister both
said the days of 10 percent tuition
increases may be ﬁnally ending.

“I’d guess we’ll be between
[a] 4.5 to 5.5 percent [increase]
next year,” McAllister said.

A ﬁve percent increase would
bring next year’s tuition, room
and board to a combined $46,378,
an increase of about $2,200.

McAllister and Ruscio said

they think ﬁiture increases will be
pegged against increasing costs
of education rather than large
capital expenditures.

And W&L does remain near
or below its peers in the top 25.
Colgate’s tuition for 2006-2007
was $3,155 higher than W&L’s
mark. Grinnell, in contrast, was
the cheapest top 25 school that
year with a tuition of $29,030.

Ruscio said there’s little
chance of tuition decreasing in
the future. He also isn’t expect-
ing any tuition freezes.

“Tuition does not pay the full
cost of student education,” he
said. “The endowment pays a
good chunk of it.”

Massive donations to the en-
dowment would be needed to
make a reduction feasible.

“If you’re thinking about
freezing tuition, you’d need en-
dowment growth well beyond

U.S. Cellular“ offers you a

30-Day Network Trial that gives
you the space and the freedom to
make sure your phone works where
you want to use it and not just
where you’re forced to use it.

U.S. Cellular is wireless
where you matter most?“

% U.S.Cellula1:

getusocom “F888-BUY-USCG

30-Day Guarantee: Customer is responsible for any charges incurred prior to return. ’© 2007 US. Cellular Corporation.

 

    

cost growth,” Ruscio said. “And
not all of the endowment goes to-
wards paying costs for students.”

In the meantime, students—and
their parents—are left to foot the
ever-rising bill.

     
 
   

:'a.ee9+oo: $35,950.
%.2QOO¥01:‘$17,r ,
,_'2001~02: $19,170.
:.20'O2g03:.$21;000_ ,
:003r04_=c..$22a9°9.l:‘ie
  525,300” g
E2005-05:$27,290 .9
E25037 733.3123-75 ._ ’
 come: s34,e5o*: 
-Tuiti I at W&L ‘over the last 10 years .
Source: VP for Finance Steve’ MeA_ll§st ,

NI
SO

 
 

  

 

 

Kyocera Strobe

 

 

  

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

Plan launched to enhance W&L experience

Entire school community charged with developing a Quality Enhancement Plan

By Alllson chopln
surr wmren

This week markedthe ﬁrst step
in developing a Quality Enhance-
ment Plan (QEP), a necessary
component of Washington and
Lee’s re-accreditation and a plan
that seeks to improve learning.

W&L must be re-accredited
every 10 years by the South-
ern Association of Colleges and
Schools (SACS). As an accredit-
ed member of SACS, the univer-
sity is eligible to receive federal
money such as grants and loans.
This also allows W&L to keep its
position as one of America’s top
colleges.

To be re-accredited, W&L is
required to enhance its commit-
ment to education by putting into
action a proposal that will im-
prove some part of the learning
experience. This is the QEP. The
main requirement is that the plan
should affect the entire commu-
nity, including students, faculty
and staff.

The possibilities for the QEP
are open. The plan can focus
strictly on the classroom, or it
can be extracurricular or a com-
bination. Examples include creat-
ing new study abroad programs,
developing courses that instill
values and morals, improving
technology or even adjusting the
school calendar.

Other SACS member colleges
have already implemented plans
such as these. For example, Da-
vidson College recently developed
a QEP that focuses on a freshman
year writing program, a revision
of the Humanities program, and

Traveller controversy
contlnued from page 1

drivers around,” asked the pas-
sengers for help in identify-
ing the offending student, none
spoke up.

Bulger issued a formal apol-
ogy on behalf of the students, the
university, and Traveller.

Nor was that the end of Trav-
eller’s troubles that weekend.

Junior Rebecca Koval, a
driver with Traveller Dispatch,
was responding to a call from
a packed Red Square when her
van was swamped by passengers.
When Koval asked them to get
out and make room for the stu-
dents who had called her there,
one passenger riding shotgun
grew hostile.

Holding a female friend in
his lap, the passenger remarked
that he graduated last year and
“knows how the system works.”
He then proceeded to complain
that there were “too many f—ing
people waiting,” and that they
would have to wait for the next
car.

opportunities for in-depth study
across departments.

A committee consisting of fac-
ulty, administrators, students and
staff has been formed to develop
the idea that will become the QEP.
Professor Michael Anderson is the
chairman of the committee.

“Our committee’s first goal is
to help community members un-
derstand what a QEP is, that it is
focused ultimately on students,”
said Anderson.

The student representatives are
freshman Class Presisent Charles
Curry, junior Rich Cleary, and
law student Katy Hall.

These students are enthusiastic
about their role in the process. “I
feel strongly that the plan W&L
proposes will greatly improve
the educational experience,” Hall
said.

The committee also wants to
express that the QEP goes beyond
mere re-accreditation.

“While, of course, receiving a
degree from an accredited univer-
sity is important to students, the
substance of the QEP itself should
play a large role in the campus
learning atmosphere. Hopefully,
the QEP will be transformative
for our community, enhancing
and/or expanding educational op-
portunities,” said Cleary.

In order to choose the idea that
will have the optimal success, the
committee has turned to the en-
tire community. Students, faculty,
and staff are asked to submit their
ideas. They can do so by visiting
the webpage at QEP.wlu.edu or
by dropping their suggestions in
boxes in the Marketplace, Elrod
Commons, or the Law School’s

“I’m not getting out of the
car, b——ch,” he then told Koval.
“I paid tuition for four years. . .so
drive me, b—ch.”

Koval contacted her dis-
patcher, who advised her to take
the hostile passenger where he
wanted to go for her own safety.
“I should’Ve went to the‘ police
[who were nearby],” Koval said
in retrospect.

Now in her second year of
driving, Koval said that she had
never been verbally abused in
that manner; “I’ve never had to
raise my voice to a passenger.”

“I can’t say my experience
[over Homecoming] is unique,”
she added.

Traveller’s incident reports
bear that out.

The year did not start auspi-
ciously; the Friday before Ori-
entation Week saw a law student
dispatch driver verbally harassed
by a group of students claiming
to be afﬁliated with the Cadaver
Society; they blocked the road
and shouted obscenities while
one ﬂashed the Cadaver emblem
on his cell phone and threatened

Brief Stop in Sydney Lewis Hall.

“It’s very important that the
community understand that all
of us are charged with coming up
with a QEP,” Anderson said.

All suggestions must be sub-
mitted by November l 6. Aﬁer this
date, the committee will evaluate
all suggested ideas. The top three
submissions will be presented‘ to
Provost June Aprille by January
or February. This is when the Pro-
vost and administration will take

“The QEP itself
should play a large
role in the campus

learning atmosphere. ”

RICH CLEARY, class of 2009
 

over in implementing one of the
ideas.

To narrow down the sugges-
tions, the committee must con-
sider which ideas ﬁt the criteria
for the QEP. The plan must focus
on learning, affect a large portion
of the community and agree with
W&L’s Mission Statement. The
effect on learning must be able to
be measured over time. Potential
cost will also be evaluated.

“We are blessed by being in
a community with the ability to
bring resources and talent to a
project. The campus environment
is so dynamic, there are always
ways to build upon our traditions
in creative and new ways. I have
no idea what the QEP will be, and
there’s a lot of work ahead, but

the driver with reprisals for not
picking them up.

The door glass on one Travel-
ler bus was kicked out by rowdy
students. Dispatch cars have
been mobbed by angry crowds.
Riders have provoked the po-
lice into boarding the buses on
multiple occasions. Dispatch di-
rectors have been harassed over
the phone by irate inebriated stu-
dents.

Traveller’s student chair, Yin-
yan Li, was most surprised by
the number of incidents that have
cropped up so early in the school
year.

“Things came to a head very
quickly,” she said.

Traveller made headlines
last Spring Term during Alumni
Weekend, when widespread row-
diness drew a quick rebuke from
student leaders.

Li’s greatest concern is stu-
dents misconstruing Traveller’s
true purpose. “It can’t be seen as
a taxi service...it’s purpose is to
get you home, not to parties.”

Likewise, Koval is concerned
that students see Traveller as an

sometime next semester we are
going to have an exciting pro-
gram,” said Anderson.

The proceedings of the com-
mittee will be continually made
public. Anyone in the community
will be able to read updates on the
website in the near future.

While committee members are
conﬁdent about the future success
of the QEP, some students have
their doubts about how much the
plan can actually achieve.

“I think some of the ideas the
school will get might be difﬁcult
to implement, so even though
students will be suggesting ideas
that we all want, they won’t be
chosen by the school. I think the
school will pick something sort of
in the middle between changing
something radically and keeping
things pretty similar to how they
are now,”,freshman Greg Franke
said.

Curry, Cleary and Hall are
currently reaching out to various
groups of students in order to en-
courage responses. They also of-
fer a potential prize: anyone who
submits an idea will be entered
into a drawing to win a video
iPod.

More than 30 ideas have been
received in the ﬁrst few days.

The committee members are
optimistic about the response and
support they will continue to re-
ceive.

“One of W&L’s strengths is its
pro-active student body, and the
request for QEP submissions is a
way for students to demonstrate
just how much they care about
their university,” said Hall.

entitlement and consequently for-
get that it is student volunteerism
that extends W&L’s community
of trust to its safe ride system.

“If we weren’t in the bubble
[that is W&L],” she said, “they’d
be arrested.”

Nonetheless, Koval is thank-
ful for the majority of passen-
gers, who she says are respectful
and grateful. She sees her work
with Traveller as serving the
W&L community.

“I do it because I like helping
people,” she said.

Despite the very public trou-
bles of the current school year, Li
is pleased that student ridership
numbers continue to rise. “More
students are taking responsibil-
ity [for getting themselves home
safely],” she said.

Bulger is also pleased that
students continue to show inter-
est in Traveller, both in riding it
and driving for it.

He does sound a cautionary
note, though; “We’re bound and
determined to stop [the abuse of
drivers],” he said.

TUSCANY

Italian Restaurant
(owned and operated by the D ’Avanzo Family)

Chef Luciano D’Avanzo with over 40 years experieence
and family proudly offer a romantic atmoshphere and an
affordable dining experience with a delicious array of
authentic regional italian delicacies.

Live Piano nightly!

Cozy main dining room with ﬁreplace
Banquet/private dining facilities
Domestic and imported wine and beer list
Full ABC liquor license

Casual attire

www. tuscanyitalianrestaurant.com
ldavanzo2003 @yahoo. com

540.463.9888

Open 7 days a week
for lunch and dinner

24 North Main
Street

in Historic Downtown Lexington

 

The jilntique Mall

760 N. Lee Hwy

Next To Tractnr‘ Supply
in  Irleart of Lexington. VA 244%)

(540) 454-5555

Selling uniqueﬁrrniftire and
accessories for the:

Dorrm — Apartment - House

Monday -- Saturday
10:00 am. -— 6:00 p..m.

Sunday
11:00 am. -- 6:00 p.m.

A Great Place to Entertain .Parents.’!.!

Therels Something for Eueryone!!!

  WIS pick of the Week

ByAlexSkaggs
smrr wnnrn

The Williams Investment Society, known to students as WIS, is
a student-run organization that is entrusted with investing part of the
school’s endowment. The goup currently holds stock in 27 companies,
and over the past four years, has consistently performed better than the
Standard & Poor 500. WIS consists of 7 investment groups: technol-
ogy, ﬁnancials, energy, basics, healthcare, non-cyclical, and cyclical.
This week, the cyclical group is featured.

“As the cyclical group, our job is to ﬁnd stocks that move in tandem
with the overall economy,” said Cyclical Investment Head Barron Mar-
tin. If the overall state of the economy rises or falls, so will a cyclical
company’s stock prices.

WIS’s latest cyclical stock pick is Joy Global, Inc. (JOYG). Joy
Global is the worldwide leader in mining equipment, parts, and ser-
vices, with a market share of about 60 percent. Mining stocks are con-
sidered cyclical because as the economy grows, they grow: businesses
need more energy and materials from mining companies as they pro-
duce more goods. About 51 percent of Joy Global’s revenues come
from international markets, leading to enormous potential for overseas
growth in emerging markets. However, it has been largely overlooked
by US analysts because the American coal market is so weak. Martin
blames this weak market on the US’s recent abnormally mild weather.

“In the next couple of years, we expect weather patterns to revert to
normal, so coal excavation should increase. This, along with enormous
growth in emerging markets and the oil sands region of Canada, should
drive revenue growth for years to come,” he said. The oil sands region
of Canada contains an estimated 174 billion barrels of economically
recoverable oil, which can only be recovered by shallow mining.

According to the cyclical group’s WIS’s calculations, Joy Global is
the most undervalued company in their market. They determined the
fair value to be around $70 per share, which is roughly 35 percent above
its current price.

WIS’s presentation this Friday will feature a full analysis of this
stock option, as well as an overview of their decision to sell Carnival
Cruise Lines (CCL).

WIS stock picks are strictly the opinions of the aforementioned in-
dustry group and should not be used as the basis for individual acquisi-
tions. Always consult your personal ﬁnancial advisor before making an

investment decision, as all stock investments carry risk. Past results are
not necessarily indicative of future performance.

’ .
Ema, e ﬁeetaamat
Przmr. CAR I)1:~a3R & Tm Tor’ Cart:

Order from our complete menu

Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAIV .lz‘..=t T Buffets!
Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm~10pm

Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm—10pm

Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm-2am

Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 8am-1 tam
Daily Hot Country Bar “Mam-10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar Ham-30pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week?

Home Cooked Meals at Somltern Hospitality.’
.oeated at

Ll! lllﬂllm MIA

I-85 & I-64. Exit 195. 2516 North Lee llwy, lxxington, VA

54!}-463~3478

Erect feed 5: a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars 6’: Tin Toysl

SPEAK

continue the tradition

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 4

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25,2007

  opinions

 

Halloween Big Leagues

The clothes make the man, so avoid the store-bought costumes and be original

By crlghton Allen
snxrr wnnsn

Say tomorrow you ﬁnd yourself walking to
class next to someone whom you don’t know
very well. As the silence builds to an awkward
level, you begin to search your mind for a
question to ask to alleviate the tension.

Before resorting to the wom—out go-to
“Are you going out tonight/Did you go out
last night,” think a little bit harder about what
holiday is just around the comer.

That’s right, it’s Halloween. Instead, you
could ask that person, “What are you dressing
up as for Halloween?”

Oh yes, you had better believe they will be
dressing up for Halloween and you should be
too. I A

Dressing up for Halloween during that awk-
ward age of 14 might have made you a “loser”
then, but this isn’t seventh grade anymore.

It’s college, the big leagues. You need to
dress up and you need to bring your A-game.

Costumes make Halloween.

Candy is great, no doubt about it, but you
can get that any time of year. Rare is the oc-
casion when one can go out in absolutely any-
thing that can be justiﬁed as a costume without
winding up on “What Not to Wear.”

Halloween costumes give you the freedom
to be for one night whom you have always
secretly longed to be, but have been afraid to
manifest that persona in public.

Fellas, are you feeling a need to embrace
your inner guido? There’s still time to join a
tanning salon, dye your hair platinum blond,
and ﬁnd a track suit or tight-ﬁtting silk de-
signer shirt (popped collar, of course) before

MyGreeks

the big night.

Ladies, have you logged some serious gym
time lately and want to show off your newly
improved body but afraid of being labeled if
you show oﬁ° too much? Halloween night is
your free pass to wear whatever you want.
Might I suggest going as a bunny rabbit 2'1 la
Reese Witherspoon in “Legally Blonde”?

As for my own costume, I am still kicking
around a few ideas. Mowgli from the “Jungle

een to leave myself plenty of solid options.

Halloween is a time to be embraced. In
high school you might have driﬁed away from
donning a costume. This year, I urge you to
dive back into the tradition with full vigor.

Wear anything you want. Just make sure
your costume is good.

You have plenty of time to create an origi-
nal get-up. On Halloween night, there should
be no excuse for a pre-made, store-bought

Ladies, logged some serious gym time lately and want to show

off your newly improved body but afraid of being labeled if you

show off too much? Halloween night is your free pass to wear

whatever you want. Mght I suggest a bunny rabbit a la Reese

Witherspoon in Legally Blond?

Book” is an early favorite. All I would have
to do is quickly modify a hand towel into a
loincloth and smear some dirt on my face, and
then I’d be good to go. For me to pull off a
convincing Mowgli, though, I would probably
need to go on a crash diet between now and
Halloween, so that might be out.

Super Mario is also a deﬁnite possibility. A
red hat, red shirt, and overalls can be acquired
easily and cheaply. Oh, and a fake mustache,
that is the key element.

Will Ferrell’s many characters are also
great, and most of them would also require a
fake mustache; maybe I should just grow out
my own mustache between now and Hallow-

 

costume. You go to W&L; you are better than
that.

Encourage your professors to get into the
spirit as well and to lecture in costume on Hal-
loween day. Or, during an ofﬁce hours discus-
sion over your research paper’s thesis, seek
their counsel about which outﬁt you should
wear. Your professors truly care about you as
an individual and want you to look your best.

Cultivating a campus-wide excitement over
Halloween is just what W&L needs. The more
people that become involved with the festivi-
ties, the better the experience will be for all
who participate.

See you out Halloween night.

m attack

People not wicked but do precious little-1to'form‘Ivirtuous members from freshmen

By Dane Boston
COLUMNIST

It’s a rotten thing to be misconstrued. Do I
not express my thoughts clearly? Do I ask too
many rhetorical questions?

Such was my dilemma after reading last
week’s Ring-Tum Phi. I found myself excori-
ated for an article I didn’t know I’d written. I
grant that the author of the letter to the editor,
an alumnus who disliked my treatment of our
Greek system, makes no personal attacks or
outlandish statements. But his letter stings me
just the same, because I never thought myself
guilty of the crime for which I stand accused.

Apparently in an editorial playfully entitled
“Test Everything Possible,” in which I elabo-
rate on and attempt to apply the lessons we ﬁnd
hidden in a Latin phrase on the school crest,
I say things that Steve Scully, Class of 1976,
construes as an attack on the Greek system.

insist that not all ways are equal.

There are ways to go through the Univer-
sity guided by a devotion to and reverence for
the principles of honor and liberal learning
from which we construct our identity and draw
our strength. There are ways to go through the
University shaped by a commitment to self-
improvement and the improvement of this
campus community and the wider community
we inhabit. There are ways to go through the
University that challenge and destroy the ste-
reotypes, preconceptions, and falsehoods that
hold us back as individuals and as a group.

These ways honor the legacy of supportive
alumni, the work of committed faculty, and the
vision of our great namesakes.

But there are other ways of going through
the University, ways that disgrace the moral
foundations of this place. I do not contend that
the people who go through Washington and
Lee enjoying the active party scene are wick-

What regard is there in the Greek system for human dignity

when fraternities degrade men and call it bonding, or disgrace

women and call it great fun? I accuse the Greek system.

Now I don’t mind being disagreed with.
A good debate or battle keeps us on our toes
and forces us to confront the inconsistencies
and weak points in our thinking. But if people
ﬁnd in my writing something I didn’t put there,
then there must be something at fault with my
writing. If I have euphemized or dallied with
my argument, I have done a disservice to my-
self and anyone who condescended to read my
poor scribbles.

So let me set the record straight, once and
for all. My editorial was not in any way an at-
tack on the Greek system. I encourage students
to consider the institution honestly, fairly, and
critically.

My editorial was an attack on the blind ac-
ceptance of tradition and senseless acquies-
cence to unreasonable and unhealthy practices
and activities.

I stand by my statement that freshmen
should investigate and test all of our traditions,
accepting the good and rejecting those that run
afoul of sound principles and common sense.

To reiterate, my editorial of several weeks
ago was_not an attack on the Greek system. But
since I’ve never been one to accept credit for
something I didn’t do, please accept the fol-
lowing attack on the Greek system.

As Mr. Scully states in his letter, “there are
as many ways to go through W&L as there are
students that have and will attend the Univer-
sity.” This I cannot deny, but I must fervently

ed. They have as much a right to revel in the
social life of Lexington as others have to em-
brace wholeheartedly the intellectual life.

I do not claim that fraternities take good
men and corrupt them or twist them into evil
perversions of the collegiate ideal. There are
good men and women whom I know and love
dearly who have done great things through
their fraternities and sororities.

I have, however, seen precious little evi-
dence to convince me that fraternities take
freshmen men with little sense of moral obli-
gation and duty to others and work to instill
those virtues in them. Instead, I have seen im-
pressionable, malleable young men drawn into
organizations that laugh at exploitation and
encourage intemperance in every vice.

I have witnessed the disastrous ripples
spread through every layer of campus life,
dividing and stratifying the student body and
pitting us all against the larger Rockbridge
community.

I do not accept, as an answer to my criticism,
tales of the good done by our Greek organiza-
tions. Thousands of hours of volunteering and
thousands of dollars in charity cannot atone for
thousands of men and women deceived by elit-
ism into doubting their very self-worth.

The good done by Greek organizations
ought to have nothing to do with philanthropy
but with empowering, edifying, and enlight-
ening members. It ought to blend seamlessly
with the academic experience, reinforcing the

lessons of a liberal education.

These clubs ought not drown students in a
sea of cheap beer (a process commonly called
rushing) and then grind them down under
boulders of physical and emotional abuse (or
pledgeship in the language of the people).

What regard is there in the Greek system
for human dignity when fraternities degrade
men and call it bonding, or disgrace women
and call it great fun?

I accuse the Greek system.

Some may argue that it is not responsible
for the culture that limits and degrades this ex-
traordinary University. Such people must not
have any regard for the simple demograph-
ics of this place. If eighty percent of our stu-
dent body enjoys some level of involvement
in Greek life, and problems of sexual assault
and alcohol abuse persist at or exceed national
levels, the Greek houses should respond vigor-
ously, uncompromisingly, and relentlessly.

Some will say that the problems I lay at the
feet of our cherished fraternities plague every
college campus. To them I say that for three
years I have listened to empty rhetoric about
the difference fraternities and sororities make
here and the unique culture we cultivate. Where
is their differing inﬂuence in these grave con-
cerns? How does our unique culture respond to
these pressing issues whose apparent ubiquity
threatens to consume our entire generation?

We have no excuse to share the vices of oth-
er campuses. This is W&L in old Lexington,
saved from ruin by no less a man than George
Washington and from irrelevance by Robert E.
Lee himself. Ought we not to hold ourselves to
higher standards and loftier ideals?

Cast off base hypocrisy! Let us open our
eyes and assess the situation frankly and hon-
estly. Not as an independent, but as a proud
student of this ﬁne school, I say I have had
enough.

The preceding paragraphs constitute an at-
tack on the Greek system. It is not an attack on
the many ﬁne people in the Greek system, but
on the organizations in spite of whose inﬂu-
ence those people are good.

I hope the many ﬁerce defenders of our
“time—honored tradition” will seriously con-
sider whether friendships and memories (of
which I have many, and none made by endur-
ing the patented bonding techniques of our in-
stitutional torturers) are a good enough excuse
for stratiﬁcation, degradation, and rampant in-
temperance.

We have come to college to think hard about
real things; we must not simply “live and let
live,” for that is the unexamined life not worth
living. Instead, let us live well, and gently help
others to do the same.

After three years of observation I believe
that the Greek organizations do not support
that goal, and should therefore be dramatically
reformed or abandoned.

 

edﬂoi

Kappa Sigma
article deceptive

Unclear that sophomores were
only pledges, never truly initiated .

To the Editor,

I am writing to express concern with the article entitled
“Beta offers 12 bids to former Kappa Sigs.”

The ﬁrst issue in the article that is, at best, unclear is the
author’s relationship to the quoted alurrmus, Bill Kientz. If the
quoted individual is related to the article’s editor, that ought
to be disclosed. If this isn’t the case, the coincidence deserves
clariﬁcation in the text.

The statement that “Price has already extended 14 bids to
upperclassmen, 12 of whom are former Kappa Sigs,” is also
extremely problematic. The article does not explain that the 12
“former Kappa Sigs” are in fact all sophomores—technically
upperclassmen, but usually not referred to as such. In addition
to allowing readers to believe that former Junior and Seni
Kappa Sigmas are joining Beta, it does not draw a distinction
between those who were afﬁliated with Kappa Sig for 3 years
and those who were pledges for 3 weeks-the article makes no
mention that the 12 were former pledges, and never actual initi-
ates.

The entire reference to Kappa Sigmas in the article is, in my
view, misleading. The tone of the article leads the reader to
believe that Junior and Senior Kappa Sigs are joining Beta. This
is absolutely not the case.

Moreover, one student quoted in the article is referred to as
a “former Kappa Sig.” In the 2005-2006 school year, this in-
dividual was a Kappa Sigma pledge for less than a quarter of
New Member Education before ‘fdepledging” of his own ac-
cord. I believe that referring to a man as a “former member” —
an fraternity into which he was never initiated and from which
he chose to immediately disafﬁliate more than a year ago is
misleading.

Sarah Kientz is typically an excellent reporter, but I’m afraid
that this article suffered from a signiﬁcant failure in editorial
oversight.

Sincerely,

George Hunter ‘08 ,

Ed. 3‘ note.‘ Hunter is the former of Kappa Sigma president.

Campus support for
pregnant students

Options for those who want to stay at W&l

Dear Editor,

We write in response to a letter in the October 8, 2007 is-
sue regarding the possibilities for pregnant students at W&L.
While we appreciate the spirit in which the letter was writte
we would like to correct the assertion that “we have no supprﬁ
systems for a student to continue her education on this campus
and be pregnant.”

We have since had some great conversations with the stu-
dent who submitted that letter to inform her of the multitude of
services provided for students who choose to remain a student
when dealing with an unexpected pregnancy as well as should
a student choose to remain at W&L. However, since the letter
has such wide readership, we thought it important to disabuse
readers of the notion that there is no support for students who
ﬁnd themselves in this situation.

W&L offers comprehensive student health services to its
students as shared in orientation and with students throughout
their time at W&L. This includes pregnancy counseling ay
connecting students with area resources. There have, in f ,
been students (both male and female) who have chosen to re-
main at W&L and parent.

In Spring 2006, Students for Life sponsored a pregnancy
resource forum, with an outside consultant from a nationally-
based organization, that asked campus leaders to discuss re-
sources for students with an unexpected pregnancy.

Following that forum, W&L was actually singled out by
the leader of that national organization as the University that
provided more services and assistance than any other college
or university she had ever visited. Like all of the University’s
services, care is offered case-by-case and sensitive to the needs
of individual students.

One might then argue “Why don’t I know this?” That is o e
reason we write this letter today. It is possible to be a parent ah
a student while at Washington and Lee.

Working with students who ﬁnd themselves with an unex-
pected pregnancy is one of the many services offered to W&L
students. Our Student Health Services works with health—related
issues from A - Z.

The Dean of Students Ofﬁce works with students to navigate
academic adjustments that might be necessary for a new parent
including obtaining course reductions if needed. The Dean of
Students Office and Student Health Services work together to
help secure the many items necessary for new parents and in-
fants and, as needed, obtain appropriate housing.

If you’re interested in working to spread the word about
health-related services at W&L, we encourage you to partici-
pate in LIFE, the peer health education group on campus. T
University also has student organizations that support both pro-
life and pro-choice stances for interested students.

What’s most important in this conversation is that W&L
works hard to support students no matter the individual situa-
tion in which a student ﬁnds him or herself?-welcoming a new
child into this world is not an exception to this.

Dawn Watkins
Dean of Students

Jameson Graber
President, W&L Students for Life

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

THE RING—TUM PHI '5

 

opinions

  Facebook Validation

With all the applications and the intrusive mini-feed, addiction is easy

if  ‘ff

By Grace Andrews
C0 LU M N l ST

Oh, the latest pop culture phenomena-
Facebook.

First, I want to discuss the expansion of
F acebook. The F acebook was started as a
project of a Harvard student that was to be ex-
clusively for college students, or people with
university e-mail addresses. The problem was
that not every college was on F acebook.

As of a year ago, F acebook was opened to
everyone. And when I say everyone, I mean
everyone—their moms, grandfathers, and ﬁfth
cousins twice removed. To make matters
worse, they even developed a high school edi-
tion.

The expansion didn’t bother me until they
allowed for the high school Facebook and
college Facebook and regular Facebook to
become one conglomerate. I personally felt
upset and cheated when this occurred.

Facebook was created during my senior
year in high school and was the holy grail of
social networks, or at least I thought it was.

The fact that it was only for college stu-
dents and a limited number of them, made me
feel like being a part of it was “special” and
thus would make me “special.”

Oh the na'1'veté of youth! Now, Facebook
has just opened the door for anybody to en-
ter the Facebook world, making it less presti-
gious and exciting.

Also, maybe l’ve just watched too many
“Lifetime” movies, but the idea of total
strangers between the ages of 14-100 interact-
ing virtually makes me a little nervous. With
Facebook stalkers and creepy individuals
randomly adding people they don’t know and
poking them, one has a right to worry.

Stalking brings me to my second issue
with Facebook—applications. There are cur-

rently 5,500 different applications available to
Facebook users.

Do you know what I call that many appli-
cations? If you said “foolishness,” then you
are correct. How in the hot mess is someone
supposed to use over 5,000 applications?

Some apps, such as the graffiti one, are
just nonsense. Seriously, a grafﬁti application;
Facebook isn’t a bridge by the street corner, so
there’s no need to be drawing anything on it.

I’m judging every person who has over
10, and those will not be positive judgments.
(Takes a quick moment of silence to judge all
the people with too many darn applications.)

However, besides the apps, the bane of my
existence is the mini-feed. The mini-feed ap-
plication is basically the virtual equivalent to
a big-haired small town gossip, telling stories
about your life to anyone who will listen.

Granted, you can turn off your mini-feed
or only set it to report certain proﬁle changes.

One could basically say that the mini-feed
is a validation system especially for those in
college.

For example whenever someone becomes
a “couple,” the relationship isn’t recognized
until you’re together on Facebook.

I know this sounds like straight-up fool-
ishness, but it’s true. Just the other day, I was
conﬁrming that my friend had ended a rela-
tionship by looking at their F acebook proﬁle.
It’s sad, and I know it. I took a moment to
judge myself.

To make matters worse, Facebook is now
informing you of people’s moods, heritage,
and horoscopes. Pretty soon, Facebook will
be mapping out a strand of your DNA and
reporting your blood type on mini-feed. The
future is limitless, but in the case of Facebook,
let’s hope not.

Facebook is not the end-all be all of hu-
manity and shouldn’t be treated as such; it

also shouldn’t be used as a personal diary and
online scrapbook of every moment you’ve
ever had. I mean honestly, no one cares that
you slept till noon. There’s no reason to cap-
ture that digitally and then make a 15-picture
album of it entitled “Sleep Saturday.”

And while I’m at it, I advise that people
not put pictures of themselves participating in
activities that others do in dark alleyways and
behind garbage cans. If you are doing some-
thing that resulted in Whitney Houston down-
fall, Lindsay Lohan’s rehab stay, or Britney
looking a hot mess at the VMAs, don’t put it
on Facebook. This is not Amsterdam, and no
one wants to see all that.

We also do not want to read all that, so if
you ﬁnd yourself pouring out your heart in a
note, do not send it to your friends. F acebook
notes are only fun if they are a mass “thank
you,” an enlightening tidbit, or a joke. If your
notes result in a tearful episode or a bout of
“Oprah” watching, just leave it alone.

I want to let you all know that if you ﬁnd
yourself checking your Facebook several
times a day or more, receive e-mail notiﬁca-
tions for every application, and shake uncon-
trollably when you go a full 24 hours without
F acebook—you may be an addict.

As a member of FA (Facebookers Anon-
oymous) I know how hard it can be to kick
the habit. But look, I did it, so I know you
can too!

Despite the fact that Facebook can be a bit
intrusive, application-happy, and downright
addictive—I still love it. It’s a great way in
which I can keep in touch with those random
people I haven’t seen since grade school and
don’t want to call, or quite frankly even see.

It’s wonderful for keeping in touch, if only
at a superﬁcial level.

»—————- -444 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY V--~—~—

THE RING—TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR

NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

ASST. COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
DESIGNERS

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.
ADMINISTRATIVE ASST.

JACOB GEIGER

JESSICA SHAW
GRACE WANG
STACEY GRIJALVA
SACHA RAAB
MICHAEL KEENAN
CATHERINE CARLOCK
WILL DORRANCE
ANDY RUBIN

KATHIE SCOTT‘

CRIGHTON ALLEN
GRACE ANDREWS

CODY BEAUCHAMP
DANE BOSTON

CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

KEVIN CORN

BRIAN DEVINE
MICHELE FARQUHARSON

. HANK NATHAN

WES O’DELL
AMOR NEILL THUPARI
ALEXANDRA SKAGGS
RUSS WEEMS

LARA JORDAN
AMY DAWSON
VICTORIA TAYLOR
LENORA NUNNLEY

CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE
JULIANNE MIATA

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately. truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students. faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during

    

Guilt fuels diversity initiatives

School programs imply non”-white‘stua'ents* aren ’t capable

By Cody Beauchamp
COLU M NIST

I hesitate to write this article.

I want to talk about “diversity” at Washington & Lee.
I hope to make well-reasoned critiques of the way the
school treats diversity; I hope to do this even though I’m
a white, straight, Protestant male—the one demographic
set that it seems can never be critical concerning diver-
sity.

I’m not sure l’ll be able to get away with this without
being branded a bigot, but hopefully I can pull this 0E.

The truth is, W&L has never done diversity well. Over
most of our history, we were one of the most white, most
Southern, most homogeneous colleges in the world.

Sure, John Chavis became the ﬁrst African-American
with a college degree in 1800, and it bore the Washington
College name. But Chavis was a hero of the Revolution-
ary War, one of the brilliant John Witherspoon’s private
students, a genius. He was the exception, not the rule.

W&L would not admit another black student until
1966, another undergrad until 1968.

The law school did not admit women until 1972, the
undergraduate programs until 1985.

Foreign students were so odd and noteworthy—until
just recentlyethat French alumnus Philippe Labro even
wrote a book-tumed movie about an odd-man-out for-
eign student, “L 'Etudiant étranger.”

Historically, we’re not good at diversity.

I think this history of ours might explain the current
state of affairs.

By current state of affairs, I’m referring to the tenden-
cy by students and administrators to go arguably too far
in the other direction. After 200+ years of being a white,
conservative, male school, it seems like we’re trying to
make up for lost time with a plethora of initiatives and an
abundance of being overly politically correct.

The school’s brass seems to go out of their way to
mention how seriously the school is committed to di-
versity. The administration has supported numerous
initiatives aimed at increasing the presence of minority
students and groups in the forefront of our community’s
thoughts.

They sponsor awareness weeks, special meals in the
D-Hall, speakers, etc.

I can’t help but wonder if the sum total is that we’re
making our non-white students tokens.

When you have special programs designed to help
non-white students “transition” into life at W&L, I can’t
help but think that you’re sending the message that they
need help transitioning, that they can’t do so on their
own.

The same goes for any kind of special event aimed at

Oil Exchange & Lube

754 North Lee Hwy.

putting minorities into the forefront of the W&L commu-
nity. I’ve no problem with minorities being in the fore-
front of the W&L community-it’s the “putting” them
there part that bothers me.

Are we saying that they wouldn’t have been capable
of getting their on their own?

Perhaps the case-in-point that got me thinking about
this would be the election of our latest Homecoming
Queen.

Quiana McKenzie’s crowning shouldn’t have stirred
up even the least bit of controversy, yet it did.

Quiana is a perfectly qualiﬁed representative of
W&L--she’s smart, dedicated to the school, a key player
in God-knows-how-many organizations and clubs; an
ideal person to recognize with an honor such as Home-
coming Queen.

Yet, in polite—that is private—circles I’ve heard some
people express shock that a black woman was made our
Homecoming Queen.

In other circles, I’ve heard people exclaim how laud-
able it is that she’s championing the cause of diversity by
winning the honor.

In both cases, I can’t help but laugh a little. Honestly,
can’t it just be that Quiana is a great representative and a
deserving winner? Why does she have to become a sym-
bol for some greater, really rather pointless, struggle to
promote diversity at W&L?

That’s the way this school must treat anything remark-
able a non-white, non-male does, I suppose. After 200+
years of being retrospectively too white, too male, and
too homogeneous, we’re feeling guilty.

We can’t just applaud our minority students because
they’re excellent students; we must applaud them on
principle just because they add to our “diversity.”

We can’t just applaud cases like Quiana’s winning
Homecoming Queen because she’s an exceptionally de-
serving person; we’ve got to cheer a little louder because
she happens to be a deserving black, female person.

Personally, I’m just hoping I can live to see the day
when we don’t need to have special programs for mul-
ticultural students, where we don’t need to have admin-
istrators swear to the high heavens we’re committed to
diversity. '

I’m hoping I see another non-white Homecoming
Queen crowned when no one really cares what color
her skin is, or what religion she follows, or where she’s
from.

I’m hoping that in a few years, maybe decades if
needed, we can quit trying to push diversity, and instead
just watch it happen naturally.

I’m hoping, in short, for the day when Washington
and Lee does diversity right.

Join the
hundreds of
parents who

et the Phi ‘
a home each

week.

To subscribe, send
your name, address
and a check for $35

to the Phi is oﬁice.

The cost for a two
year subscription is

$ 75.

the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise lndependent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of

UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060

ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI

FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU

W&L’s arrogant babies

How should we describe recent student ac-
tions on the Traveller sober ride system?

Embarrassing comes to mind. So does ap-
palling.

How could W&L students and
alumni call one driver a racial slur
and call a student driver a b—ch?

Our actions are so astonishing
that they almost defy words.

We absolutely love to talk about
Lee’s code of gentlemanly—and
lady-like—conduct.

But our actions increasingly
make that ﬁne talk look like point-
less drivel.

Sure, it’s easy to be a gentle-
man or lady on the Hill. But out at
Windfall Hill, we live by another
standard.

Parents, aren’t you thrilled to see how your
children act away from home?

This isn’t a new problem. Traveller driv-
ers have been reporting harassment by students
since last year.

You can hardly blame one driver for wanting
to be paid before he let students off his bus.

His actions were inexcusable but no worse
than the actions of W&L’s students.

We’re not ladies and gentlemen. We’re ar-
rogant college kids with a major sense of en-
titlement.

“But wait!” you say. “These problems are
just the actions of a small majority.”

That might be true, but this “small major-
ity” has certainly been busy in the last year.

And we’ve heard nothing from the majority
of students.

There have been no protests by students, no
calls for accountability. Nothing.

I’m sure most students are genuinely upset
by the behavior. And most are courteous, re-

&
ﬂ

SE
9
‘E

   

 

Lexington Animal Hospital
Welcomes You and Your Pet!!

 

spectful riders on Traveller.

But this silence needs to stop.

When the African-American driver asked
other students to help identify the one who
yelled at him, nobody spoke up.

What a bunch of cowards we are.

If normal students won’t take action when
their peers act like arrogant jerks, it’s time for
student government to get involved.

Traveller drivers—both students and Goff
employees—should turn to the SJC for assis-
tance.

Next time a student uses the N-word on
Traveller, the SJC should ﬁne the student, ban
him from Traveller and even consider a sus-
pension.

When a call for civil conduct can’t get re-
sults, maybe punishments will.

Normally we’re strong advocates of free
speech, but no student has a right to use that
sort of language.

Students have famously short memories.
None of them have been on campus long
enough to remember the DUls and alcohol-re-
lated trafﬁc deaths that plagued W&L just 5-10
years ago.

If this keeps up, Traveller’s student driv-
ers will have no reason to keep working. Who
wants to be yelled at all night?

And if the Traveller system collapses, it’s
just a matter of time before a drunk student
dies while trying to drive on a winding, coun-
try road.

Is this what drunk, impatient W&L students
want? To see Traveller shut down?

How many times do we need to be told that
this is not a taxi system? The purpose is to
get students home safely, not whisk you around
Rockbridge County free of charge.

These actions make us embarrassed to call
ourselves Washington and Lee students.

Spring Break 2008.
Sell Trips, Earn Cash
and Go Free- Call for
group discounts. Best
Deals Guaranteed!

20% q[f your first
visit wit/i this ad

New clients only/limit one per visit. Expires 06/30/2008

Dr. Sheryl H. Carls
28 Bones Place Lexington, VA 540-463-2715

Jannaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Baharnas,
S- Padre, Florida.

Across from Tractor Supply

540-463-5020
Save $1.00 — Show W&L ID

   

800-648-4949 or
www-ststrave|-corn.

 

 

 

 

W6 - iTl'|E RlN(Vi-TUM PHI 0

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25,2007

arts&life

 

aner’s dedication to W&L honored

Doris Bane book signing of Family and Honor

I. iiversity family

BOOK COVER COURTESY OF DORIS BANE

Above: Well-known and loved
W&L l'raffic Coordinator and
Security Guard Thomas Bane in
front of the Colonnade. Affec-
ttonately called “Baner,” he has
‘vnpacted the lives of students
and parents for over 30 years.

Right: Doris Bane, wife of
Thomas and author of

“Family and Honor.” She wrote
the book to honor her hus-
band’s, as well as other faculty
and staff's, dedication to the
university and its students.
She will be signing books in the
Commons on Friday from 1:00
to 4:00 p.m. and Saturday from
11:00 to 2:00 p.m.

    

By Celeste Cruz-carandang
8 TA F F W R I TE R

The students of Washington and Lee
University insist that our campus has
something more than the average college
campus. We have more history, more
prestige, but most of all, a greater sense
of welcoming than any other college
community.

However, at times we fail to realize
that this ambience of acceptance is not in-
herent within these antebellum columns.
In fact, it is the work of those who walk
up and down the Colonnade, in front of
Lee Chapel, and into the Commons.

To put it simply, each individual at
W&L strives to make this university
what it truly is: a family.

This “family thing” is something that
grows within every student and faculty
member who walks through this place.
Yet, even within our family, there are
those who nurture and enrich our lives to
epic dimensions. We must regard them as
more than just a cornerstone for this tradi-
tion, but love them as the support system
for this family. W&L Traﬁic Coordina-
tor and Security Guard Thomas “Baner”
Bane has been this foundation for what
he called “the family thing at Washington
and Lee.”

For over three decades, he has wel-
comed freshmen and their parents to this
seemingly daunting campus and worked
endlessly to quell the fears of both parent
and child. Battling through the worry and
sorrow of all family members present on
move-in day, Baner fought to comfort
and usher in a sense of both acceptance
and calm with his words. Oftentimes, his
mere presence successfully eased the sor-
row of parting and brought to light the
sweeter aspects of embarking on a new
educational life.

His wife, Doris Bane, wishes to honor
both Baner and the students he inspires
through a book about her husband.

While “Family and Honor” took only
a year to write, Bane insists the urge to
write this book has lasted for “over thirty
years.” However, she wishes her readers
to note that this book does notpaint her
husband as a saint or legendary ﬁgure.

“This isn’t a brag book about Baner,”
Bane said. “It’s to honor him and to hon-
or the students and alumni we’ve shared
memories with.”

Baner never felt the need for the rec-
ognition of his extraordinary kindness.

“To him, there was no great praise or
acknowledgement needed,” Bane wrote.

“He was just fulﬁlling a promise he made
to thousands of parents as they prepare
to leave campus after freshman move-
in weekend—‘Ya’ll go home now, your
son or daughter will be just ﬁne here,
cause they’re part of our family now at
W&L.”’

To the luck and surprise of genera-
tions of students, Baner did all he could
to uphold and honor this promise. It is
through his actions, rather than his words
(also known as“Banerisms)” that earn
him legendary status.

“My desire is to honor Baner as he
has not only spoken of this family thing
at Washington and Lee, but has lived it
as he interacts with the students, parents,

“This isn ’t a brag book
about Baner. Its to honor
him and to honor the stu-
dents and alumni we ’ve

shared memories with. ”

Dorls Bane, author of Family and Honor
 

alunmi, faculty and staff,” Bane explains.
Indeed, the inspiration for the book
stemmed from observing this interaction
her husband had with the W&L students.

Last spring, the Phi Kappa Sigma fra-
ternity invited the Banes to a dinner they
were hosting the night before the upcom-
ing graduation ceremonies. During the
meal, they awarded Baner lifetime mem-
bership into their fraternity, officially
making this security guard their brother.

The plaque he received read, “Baner
is hereby awarded the distinction of life-
time membership in Phi Kappa Sigma—
In recognition of his steadfast protection,
guidance, support and most of all, for
showing us by friendship the true mean-
ing of the Washington and Lee Family.”

During the conversations following
her husband’s acceptance of the award,
the emotional reactions of the students
inspired her to write this book. The book
includes stories of how Baner strives to
protect students and how greatly the stu-
dents love him for his efforts.

The W&L community has supported
Bane in her endeavor.

“The response from the alumni has
been phenomenal; not so much as in the

number of responses I received, but in
the depth of emotion and sincerity as to
how their college years at Washington

and Lee were enhanced by Baner,” Bane ’

says. Any letter she has received from
a student has been “...from the heart,”
Bane observes.

Yet what else would we expect from
this family? As trite as it may sound, Ba-
ner has impacted the lives and touched
the hearts of many who venture through
these red brick buildings. It is only appro-
priate that the W&L family gives back a
little bit of the heart Baner so willingly
offered.

After printing over 3,000 copies, Mrs.
Bane will not exactly be destitute. Yet,
after being asked what all of that men-
ey is going towards, Mrs. Bane remains
humble and true to her husband.

“I’m going to pay off the original
$10,000 loan to get the book published. ..
so the book will be debt free,” Bane
promises. “If I didn’t make another dime,
it would be okay. Just to see Baner read
the emails and letters...and seeing them
on the pages of “Family and Honor”. . .is
worth millions of dollars to me.”

The book signing will be held in
Elrod Commons the Friday and Saturday
of Parents’ Weekend. On Friday, Mrs.
Bane will be signing books from 1:00 un-
til 4:O0 and again on Saturday from 1 1 :00
until 2:00 that afternoon.

Those who are unable to attend the
signing or cannot obtain a copy of the
book should feel free to email Mrs. Bane
at banerandi@yahoo.com.

Instead of the traditional refreshments
for a book signing, Mrs. Bane will hand
out a complimentary packet of tissues
with each copy of the book because, as
she maintains, “You’re going to need it!”

Overall, the book’s title, “Family and
Honor,” speaks volumes of the intentions
and contents of this book. It will speak
to the tradition of community within this
university and the honor each student or
faculty and staff member feels in uphold-
ing it.

However, Mrs. Bane’s book goes one
step further and connects the two: her
purpose is to honor this “family thing”
for which her husband puts his life on the
line.

“This book will. . .honor the many
students who have walked through the
Colonnade on the W & L campus that
is so rich in tradition, goals and honor,
that does not stop as they walk across the
stage to get their diploma, but is carried
with them for the rest of their lives.”

An Alternative Program

Get experience while a student with Teach Kentucky

By Michele Farquharson
smrr wrmrn

Teach Kentucky is a program established in the
City ot’L»’ uisville to bring a young. new, invigorate-
ing set ofteachcrs to Kentucky’s public schools in
order to revitalize the teaching community. While
Teach Kentucky is similar to Teach for America, it

‘is a localized program that provides a more consis-

. rent support group for the teachers. Those selected

for the program move to Kentucky and go through
me University of Louisville’s alternative teaching
program while committing two years to teaching in
‘heir public school system. They will also be given
a family in Louisville to mentor them throughout
their two years in Louisville.

Joe Franzen graduated from W&L in 2006 as
the recipient of the Sally G. Ball Award. The Ball
.-‘award is a $4,000 salary stipend that goes to a col-
I ge graduate who shows promise in the teaching
ill l(l education ﬁelds. Franzen applied for Teach for
America and was rejected. Feeling rather down,
he stumbled on the Teach Kentucky program and
took another chance, applied, and was accepted.
When he went to Kentucky, it was not what he ex-
pected. Instead of a formal interview like he had
when applying for Teach for America, there was
a barbeque, beer, and a great discussion of teach-
ing philosophies between the other applicants and
teachers involved in the program.

Enthralled with this new environment, Franzen
packed his bags and moved to Kentucky. As he
had never been in charge of a class before, he spent
most of his ﬁrst day at Shelby West Middle School
talking about ice cream to get to know the kids.
While the ﬁrst few months were rough and his
teaching plans from his summer graduate courses
at University of Louisville had been thrown out,
F ranzen’s creativity and dynamic personality
helped him connect and build lasting relationships
with his students. His biggest piece of advice to
those going into one of these teaching programs is
to fund an opportunity to teach while still a student.

in order to build up teaching experience.

Even though the challenges of teaching were
difﬁcult, the diversity of the student body, both
ethnically and socioeconomieally, proved to be the
largest obstacle. Trying to challenge children at dif-
ferent academic levels in a class size of thirty kept
Franzen busy day and night, planning and updat-
ing his curriculum and lesson plans. Throughout
these ordeals. the teachers in the Teach Kentucky
program were there to support him.

Franzen described the Teach
Kentucky program as an oppor-
tunity to be placed in an area
where he was needed and chal-
lenged. It has placed him on

a fast track to leadership posi-

tions within his new school... ”

Franzen described the Teach Kentucky program
as an opportunity to be placed in an area where he
was needed and challenged. It has placed him on
a fast track to leadership positions within his new
school, and provided him with a network of teach-
ers and contacts in the Louisville area. At the end
of next year, he will receive a teaching certiﬁcation
and a masters in teaching. The Teach Kentucky
program needs teachers in all subjects. If you are
interested, more information and the application
can be found at http://www.teachkentucky.com/de-
fault.aspx.

By Michele Farquharson
sr/arr wamzn

Are you a creative or dynamic person? Do you
like helping kids? Are you interested in pursuing a
career in teaching or education? If you answered
yes to any of these questions, then you should learn
about the organization Teach for America.

Teach for America is an organization that works
to eliminate educational inequality within schools.
Studies show that children who grow up in poor
socioeconomic households are nearly three grade
levels behind children who are raised in wealthier
socioeconomic households.

According to Joanna Perini, a graduate of W&L
and of the Teach for America program, “The goal
is to get highly motivated young teachers into
classrooms where [they] are desperately needed
with the hope that these teachers, alter their two
years, will either stay in the classroom or will go
on to another career where they can impact the
American educational system.”

Joanna taught at a school in New Mexico for
two years and is currently attending law school
at Northwestern University. Last summer she
worked on special education legal issues with a le-
gal non-proﬁt organization in Chicago. While she
taught in New Mexico, she had to take nine credits
per year towards a masters in special education so
that she could maintain her teaching license. Other
states have different requirements while students
are in the program, but in most cases, the partici-
pants must be working on a masters in education,
teaching, etc., as well as working towards their
teaching certiﬁcation.

If you are accepted into the program, you are
expected to commit two years after graduation
from college to the program. For a short period of
time immediately following graduation, you go to
the site where you will be teaching in order to get
settled in. Then, you go to the Teach for America
institution to receive ﬁve weeks of training, and
then back to the site to begin teaching. For this
ﬁrst summer, you may get one to two weeks off,

but in most cases, the ﬁrst summer is committed-to
the program as well. Aﬂer that, you are on a nor-
mal teacher’s schedule, and after the second year
of teaching, it is your decision to either leave your
placement or to stay.

Another W&L graduate, Nazo Burgy, is in
his second year of teaching second grade in Mi-
ami (Little Haiti). He describes it as “a constant
time commitment. There isn’t a minute in my day
when I’m not thinking about my students, what
I’m doing the next day, or how to better serve
them...you’re leaving a civic-minded lifestyle at
all times.” Nazo is planning on getting his mas-
ters in educational leadership and then opening
up his own charter school. Ansel Sanders, yet an-
other W&L graduate who went into the Teach for
America program, is currently a vice principal in a
public middle school in Greenville, SC. He taught
in Baltimore, MD for three years while attending
Johns Hopkins and working towards his certiﬁca-
tion. When asked about his plans for the future,
Ansel replied, “I will be in education as a career.
My experience with Teach for America galvanized
this desire. I would like to continue on the path to
school leadership and be a principal.”

Teach for America provides an opportunity for
students interested in education to gain experience
in urban and rural public schools, while helping
close the achievement gap between children grow-
ing up in various socio-economic situations. An-
sel described the desired applicant as “the type of
student who is passionate and committed to en-
deavors and goals; someone who is dynamic and
strong-willed; someone who will be able to keep
a perspective when times get rough during their
experience and commit themselves 110% while in
the program. Lots of folks at W&L ﬁt this descrip-
tion and I hope many, many students apply.”

If you are interested in this program, Steve De-
Man is in charge of recruiting at W&L. His email
is: stephen.deman@teachforamerica.org. More
information and the application can be found at
www.teachforamerica.org.

  

 

Interested in Teaching?  

Help disadvantaged children with Teach for America 
o

2 r‘; .-.-

 

 

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

  

 

sports

 

Jackson victory over D-I VMI

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

Last Friday, October 19, the
.men’s lacrosse team took on Vir-
ginia Military Institute in the 21st
annual Lee-Jackson Classic and
came home with a 17-14 victory

This tradition started in 1988
and is one of the longest running
annual events in college lacrosse
today. It is also one of the few Di-
vision 1 versus Division 111 games.
Despite the difference in divisions,
the game is always competitive
and intense. The Generals had won
two straight against the Keydet’s
coming into Friday’s game. Due
to scheduling issues, this year’s

.match-up marks the ﬁrst time this
event has been played during the
fall off-season. The game is usu-
ally played in April during the reg-
ular season. The players say this
gives this Crosstown rivalry extra
emphasis. It also allows the Gen-
erals to give themselves a real test
in the fall.

The 17 goals by the Generals in
the high-scoring affair topped last
year’s high mark of 14 against Ro-
anoke. It is the most goals scored
in a game by the Generals since

.they put up 17 against York two
years ago.

Early in the game, VMI scored
ﬁrst and at one point led 3-1, but
W&L recovered and led by a score
of 5-3 at the end of the ﬁrst quar-
ter. The second quarter was played
evenly, leaving the halftime score
7-5.

The Generals came out ﬁred
up in the third quarter and domi-
nated. They outscored the Key-

 

dets 7-3 with contributions from ‘

6 different players including one
by senior Will Englehart with one
second left to cap off the quarter.
From the end of the third quarter
to the beginning of the fourth, the
Generals went on their third scor-
ing streak of 4 or more. VMI came
back strongly in the last quarter
when the Generals took out some
of their starters, but in the end
W&L stayed in control and came
out on top.

The Generals got contribu-
tions from all around in their third
straight victory over VMI. The
strong offensive performance was
led by senior captain Ned Rider
with 3 goals and 4 assists. He won
the Fallon award for most valuable
player on W&L in the Lee-Jack-
son Classic. The award has been
awarded annually since 1996 and
is named after former Washington
and Lee football coach and la-
crosse ofﬁcial Gary Fallon.

Englehart (4 goals), sophomore
Will Keigler (2 goals, 4 assists),
and sophomore Deets Hoffman (2
goals and an assist) provided other
strong performances. Junior Sel-
don Clarke won 22 of 26 face-offs
including 9 of 10 in the Generals’
dominant third quarter. The de-
fense was lead by senior captain
Spotty Robins.

With this win, the Generals
are looking forward to the sea-
son. The team is mature with six
seniors. The ten different players
that scored show the squad has
depth. About the game, Coach
Eugene McGabe said, “I am very
pleased. We had 17 goals with

contributions from a lot of players.

We had good execution and a solid
effort. I am excited about the rest
of the season.” The players also
said they are excited and happy
with their fall ball performance. ‘

The team resumes play this
winter.

Timber Ridge Acute :C‘Zer1ter
lféiﬁ  1-Eire
Lex'i'a1_g£'e:§. VA 2‘-lﬁlﬁvil
laser; are 19?}?

 

 
 

 

    
 

ass {.A\‘x..». .. ‘”r#.i=..<:2—i:u:elas:s_:

Ft:m':ig:1 and .IZ)x::~mes*;ie Repv.:'.1ia*2s

Oil Cviliiléfgifi ami Ltrhe, A£'£7, %;fr:rm;3<‘L:ts::’r E}iag:_12e=5'§.ir;s.,

§’x«‘§i‘s:c;>r‘ amgi §»*§ajer’ iingirae R::p°air, Elr'al‘~.:c:'t:"»._
Feet §r:}e<;€i»;>r2 Eﬁewice, Ti‘;’itl”§..3i'li3l$Sl£}t‘i Eﬁerréce,
{‘f."m7>i;111t .E.3~‘l='tz.:~.z§“;._ .l\r’lli}(}%.” and Ma} D1‘ ’.§.”z11re»»--Lips.
We mm pa‘ex==i.i;§r: :§acI'e1“y a.r:tlra:"i;<e;§ ma-Liiaitejriairtsee
w_i.i%-tieut °roi{i.§r":;,?; jmkir’ ma.im§‘ireiL:re:"s "a-’aififa:1£}‘..

.61-'f€§f{D?‘(':u viii  “rz’<;‘ 

    

     

"f1’0r:s;::r Dog With Rider", vc*apyright Tiﬁczny Ownbey

‘Lax beats crossw Ke (lets 17 -14

Victory is W&L is third straight Lee-

Senlor captain Ned Rider
drives past a VMI defend-

‘er Friday. Rider finished

the game with four goals
and three assists.

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

The Best
Building Site

Overlooking 18th hole
Lexington Golf and
Country Club

Nearly 1 acre lot
Awesome views

23 Mossy Creek Dr.
$140,000.

540-463-6661

Lexington
Art Gallery

featuring hand made
jewelry, ceramics, glass
as well as

local and nati

onally

known photographers

Yourﬁrst Stopfor gzﬂs!

13 W. Nelson Street Lexington, Va 24450 540.464.8080
wvvw.lexingtonartgallery.com
tues-sat, 11-5

  

8 0

THE RING-TUM PHI

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25,2007

sports

 

Wimmers split at Mary Wash.

Men win 12 of I 4 events and cruise to a dominating victory in their season opener

By Mlchael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

As the temperatures outside
begin to drop, the swimming pool
starts to steam. Both the men’s
and women’s teams opened their
seasons on Saturday at Mary
Washington. The men won in con-
vincing fashion, 169-93, while the
women lost by the same score.

The men’s team was led by se-
nior Will Hartmann’s victories in
the 100 back, the 200 back, and
the 200 individual medley. Senior
Alex Sweet contributed victories
in the 100 free and 200 free and
was a part of the victorious 200
free relay along with senior Tim
McGlaston, junior Paul Crook,
and sophomore Brandon Bamds.

Crook tallied two individual
wins in the 100 breast and 500
free while McGlaston also won
the 50 free in a time of 20.82, good
enough for an NCAA provisional
cut. Sophomore Ian Childers pro-
vided one of the best individual
swims, winning the 200 breast in
2:18.32.

Overall, the Generals won l2
of the 14 events contested.

“To let our opponents know
that we intend to pillage our op-
ponents, not just win,” said Me-
Glaston when asked about the
signiﬁcance of the win. “We want
to demonstrate that we’re a na-
tionally competitive team.”

On the women’s side, the
Generals were led by freshman

Tess Hayden who touched ﬁrst in
both the 500 free and 1000 free.
Hayden’s swims provided a spark
for the whole team. Juniors Lind-
sey Strachan and Julianne Miata
also chipping in with wins in the
100 back and 100 ﬂy, respective-
ly. Freshman Jackie Smith also
contributed a second place in the
200 free.

“The best performances of the
meet were from Tess Hayden,”
said Miata. “As freshmen, the
team isn’t really sure what to
expect of them. We don’t know

we swam in our ﬁrst meet,” said

Hayden. “From my experience,‘

I’ve found that it’s difﬁcult to
swim really well at the beginning
of the season. But everyone on
the team went out and raced and
came away with some really fast
times.”

The freshmen weren’t the only
ones experiencing their ﬁrst meet
at W&L. New women’s head
coach Kami Gardner, who came
to W&L this season after 13 years
as the head coach at the State Uni-
versity of New York at Oswego.

“T 0 let our opponents know that we intend

to pillage our opponents, not just win. We

want to demonstrate that we ’re a nationally

competitive team. ”

TIM MCGLASTON, Class of 2008

how they get pumped up for races
or how the pressure can inﬂuence
their performance.

“Tess won both of her races,
smoked the competition, and
never looked back. It was neat to
watch because you could tell that
she focused on her race, and hers
only. The intimidation from the
other team didn’t matter, and it’s
great to have someone like that as
a part of the team--it just rubs off
on everyone.”

“I was amazed at how well

“It was great to experience our
ﬁrst meet with our new coach,”
said Miata. “She really paid at-
tention to everyone’s race, of-
fered support, and gave great ad-
vice for improvement. She puts
everything in a practical perspec-
tive, and assures us that perform-
ing well does not mean winning.
There are many more details that
make a huge difference in your
race, and it’s important to be re-
minded of those sometimes.”

For the men, the ﬁrst meet was

as much about competing with
the clock as their opponents.

“This meet was a self-test for
us; it was really our ﬁrst chance to
go out and see if we could swim
fast despite training hard right
through, and it was our ﬁrst gauge
of where we are at as a team,” said
sophomore Josh Gonzalez.

The ﬁrst meet provided a test
of how the holes left by the gradu-
ation of last years seniors, includ-
ing several All-Americans, would
be ﬁlled.

“Kevin Hayes left an extreme-
ly large gap in our depth chart,”
said McGlaston. “Fortunately, we
have lots of smaller but faster un-
derclassmen to ﬁll that gap. Mike
Ginder left a tall and skinny gap
that Alex Sweet is likely to fill.”

“Will Hartmann won both the
backstroke events and the 200
IM, which were normally held
down by two different seniors
last year, and Brandon Bamds,
who did a nice job on some relay
spots that were held by last year’s
group and in the 200 freestyle,”
said Childers.

If the Generals are going to
accomplish an undefeated regular
season, they will need people to
continually step up for the team.
The men’s schedule this year in-
cludes a number of quality op-
ponents including Carnegie Mel-
lon, Franklin and Marshall, Johns
Hopkins, and Blue Grass Moun-
tain Conference rival Wingate.

“Our biggest rival in BGMC

will probably be Wingate again.
As a D—lI school they are able
to buy some pretty good foreign
talent with their scholarships,
they’ve got a good young coach
and they gave us a run for our
money last year,” said Gonzalez.

The teams’ goals aren’t limited
to the pool though.

“Our academics are also really
important to us. The men’s team
posted the second highest GPA in
the country winter term and com-
bined with the girls team we post-

ed the highest GPA in the country
of any combined team in D-I, D-
II, D-III or any of the independent
divisions, so we obviously want
to continue with our success in
the classroom,” said Gonzalez.

The Generals return to action
next Saturday in the home opener
against Transylvania at 12:00
p.m.

OCTOBER 27

how little it cost!

depleting your budget.

Our Services

SERVICES

The Roanoke Airport Transportation Services offers a 24 hour service by reservation and maintains
a physical presence at the airport 18 hours a day.

Along with our reasonable rates, our professional drivers and our ﬂeet of white Lincoln stretch
limousines, Lincoln Town Cars, and l5—passenger vans are impressive on all occasions —
WEDDINGS, PROMS, CONCERTS, BIRTHDAYS, GRADUATIONS, NIGHT
OF CELEBRATION, POLICTICAL FUNCTIONS, SIGHTSEEING TOURS,
etc. Whatever the occasion, we can help you impress your friends, family, or clients while
creating “memories for a lifetime”. Arrive at your event in style; you don’t need to tell anyone

Our “Executive Sedan Service” is a great asset for businesses. Do you want to impress a client
and make that sale? Do you want the folks ﬂying in from the corporate office to feel important?
Take advantage of our low rates for Lincoln Town Cars or even a stretch limousine without

 

For those airline passengers or commuters, why pay parking fees at the airport and risk ﬁnding
your car battery has gone dead upon your return from a trip or vacation or worst have your vehicle
damaged while you are gone and having report it to your insurance company? Take advantage of
our low fares and professional service when ﬂying out of or into the Roanoke Regional Airport.
Let us load your luggage and drive you right to the front door of the airport!

ROANOKE AIRPORT TRANSPORTATION

“Whatever the occasion, we can help make it special for you! ”

Special Rates

Student Rates: For students of area universities and colleges needing transportation, we provide
a 10% discount on rates to help with your budgets. The rate to W&L University is $73.00 or

$36.50 ifa car is shared by two students.

Shuttles to W & L University: Special shuttle service can be provided, upon reservation,
to students at William and Lee University. If three to nine students wish to share a ride to the
Roanoke Regional Airport, they can reserve a van at a cost of only $30.00 per person.

Corporate Rates: For corporations, companies, public and private organizations, and nursing
homes with frequent transportation needs, we can offer discount rates depending upon your

needs. Contact us to develop your discount rate!

Wedding/Anniversary Packages: With our ﬂeet of white limousines, town cars, 15-
passenger and wheelchair accessible vans, we can help make your wedding or anniversary more
special at a very reasonable cost. Discounts vary depending on the number and types of vehicles
needed and other factors. Contact us to develop a special package for your wedding!

 

GUARANTEED LOWEST RATES in Roanoke!

If you can provide written proof that our competitors’ prices are lower than ours, we guarantee

to match or beat their price.

 

 

  

O

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

THE RING-TUM PHI - 9

 

sports

Cycling team is fast out of the gate  

Team is only I 0 months old but has already earned its ﬁrst win

By Michael Keenan
spears EDITOR

When most students think of Traveller at W&L,
they’re looking for a ride home. Since arriving on
campus last year, sophomore Elliot O’Brien has been
racing to change that.

On October 14, O’Brien entered the team’s ﬁrst cy-
clocross competition in Charlottesville, Va. and took
first place in his category.

“My expectations of what a cyclo-cross race would
look like were very hazy: something about parks, bar-
riers and running with the bike,” said O’Brien.

After warming up for a few laps an the course, he
was still uncertain about how he would do.

“I felt a little nervy at the start,” said O’Brien. “My

two warm—up laps were a combination of awkward,

dismounts, poor gear choices and many a dropped
chain.”

O’Brien went out conservatively hanging out in
the middle of the pack for the ﬁrst of ﬁve laps but be-
gan to move up quickly and by lap three had the leader
in his sights. His cross-country running training paid
off for him during the mandatory dismount sections,
where the rided must jump of the bike and run.

“From there on out it was just a matter of not
crashing or dropping out due to mechanical issues,”
he said.

However, on lap four he ﬂipped over his handle-
bars into some sand, but gamely “shook the sand off,
jumped back on. and kept riding.” With about a third
of a mile to go, he survived a scare when his chain
came off, but with a ﬂick of front derailleur, the chain
was back on and O’Brien was on his way to victory.

“All in all a great experience,” said O’Brien.
“Technical but fun, lots of gravelly climbs with a bal-
ance of ﬁnesse and brute strength required to make it
through.”

In January, 2007, O’Brien, with the help of alum-
nus David Cobb, reinvigorated the dormant W&L cy-
cling club as Team Traveller. Upon its founding, only
one rider in the club was licensed with USA Cycling.
Today, the team has grown to include 20 current W&L
students as well as a number of alumni and commu-
nity members.

Last spring, the team was registered and O’Brien
and Cobb purchased their individual racing licenses
from USA Cycling. After a number of strong ﬁnishes,
including victories in Greenville, N.C.; in Rock Hill,
S.C.; and the Tour of Virginia Criterium in Harrison-
burg, Va., O’Brien earned a promotion to Category
Four last May.

The promotion didn’t slow him down as he took
third in his Category Four debut and later placed sec-
ond in the South Mountain Mass Start Hill Climb in
Pennsylvania.

In addition to racing, the team has also undertak-
en several charity events. Last February, team Vice-
President Matt Langan organized a 385 mile trip from
Richmond, Va., to Norristown, Pa., in order to raise
money for the National Parkinson’s Foundation. Lan-
gan was joined by Cobb, O’Brien and senior Wood-
row Friend.

They stayed in homes of students and alurrmi along
the way. Because of the success of the ride, the team is
planning charity events for the future, but are “intent

New Zealand native Elliott O’Brien (above) partnered with alumnus David Cobb
to restart W&L’s cycling team. Since January the team has grown from one rider

that future routes will go south rather than north.”

Quiet riders win  
big on the road

Team beats host Hollins and almost upsets U Va

 

JACOB GEIGER / Managing Editor

Junior Hila Yashar had never been on a horse before she joined
W&L’s riding team two years ago. Last week she won her division.

WRITTEN BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
DIRECTED BY JD. MARTINEZ

CT; 2.5, 26, 27, 2007
  AT8 RM.
OCT. 28, 2007
  in PM.

 i’iE_itiERTHEAiRE

TICKETS ARE REIRIIRED

BOX OFFICE 458.8000
http:ii'theater.wlu.edu

By Jacob Geiger
MANAGING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Riding team
has no home shows. They don’t even
practice in Lexington.

But each fall and winter the program
matches up with — and often beats — re-
gional riding powerhouses like Hollins
University, Bridgewater College and
Sweet Briar College.

Last weekend the Mounted Generals
took second place at Hollins, defeating
the hosts and ﬁnishing just two points be-
hind the University of Virginia.

Hollins has more than 80 riders in its
programs. The Generals have about 20.

“We practice less than all the other
teams,” Coach Gordon Reistrup said.
“The girls just have to be ready to step
up.”

That can make life a bit hectic. Reis-
trup said it helps that he coaches a team of
extremely smart riders.

In this fall’s seven-week season, Reis-
trup has had to hold tryouts, train his team
and guide them through four shows. The
fall season concludes Nov. 3 with a show
at Bridgewater College. The team will
compete seven‘more times in the winter
and spring.

Reistrup, a 1988 UVa graduate, com-
peted in Intercollegiate Nationals each of
his four years at UVa. He has continued
to show competitively while coaching at
W&L and training private clients.

Each showlhe competes against his
former coach, UVa’s Claiborne Bishop.
He enjoys matching up against Bishop
and other friends in the coaching busi-
ness.

“When the program came to [Reis-
trup’s barn in Collierstown], we had to
start from ground zero,” he said. “I called
in favors from friends all over. Claiborne
was one of the ﬁrst people I called.”

Reistrup’s wife, Amy, was the team’s
coach during the 2005-2006 season, tak-
ing the team to its ﬁrst ever Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference title. Gordon
Reistrup took over the program after his
wife died of cancer during the summer of
2006.

He took over a team in transition. Cait-
lin Lane, a four time national qualiﬁer in
the top division, had just graduated. Cap-
tain Katie Goodrich, another all-ODAC
rider, also graduated. The team also grad-
uated three strong mid-level riders.

Intercollegiate horse shows consist of
competitions of eight classes: ﬁve “ﬂat”
classes and three jumping classes. First
place in a class earns the team seven
points, with lower ﬁnishes earning few-
er points. Riders are placed into a class
based on their prior riding and showing
experience.

That means the team has riders who
have been competing for 10 years and
others who got on a horse for the ﬁrst time
last month. But a team needs depth across
the divisions if it hopes to do well. I

“That was ‘my biggest adjustment last

to 20, with numberous alumni and community riders joining the team for some
competitions. O’Brien is a sophomore.

year, having to teach complete begin-
ners,” Reistrup said. “You have to adjust
your thought process; you can’t get too
technical.”

Junior Hila Yashar joined the team her
freshman year.

“I had never been on horses before I
came to W&L,” Yashar said.

Last week at Hollins, Yashar won the
walk-trot division, beating all other be-
ginning riders. *

“In my division they look at how well
you control the horse, how your body sits
on the horse and your steering ability,”
Yashar said.

On the other hand, freshman Caitlin
McCurdy had been riding for 10 years
but had never appeared in a show. Last
week she won the walk-trot-canter divi-
sion, which is the division directly above
walk-trot.

Though W&L’s team can’t boast as
many riders as some of the other pro-
grams, team captain Sarah Bujtas says
there are advantages to being a small
team.

“We’re much tighter than the other
teams,” Bujtas, a junior, said. “We have a
lot of fun at shows.”

Even though only part of the team
shows each meet, Yashar said the riders
aren’t competitive with their teammates.

“The spirit of the team is my favorite
part [or riding]” Yashar said. “People are
very supportive when you ride.”

A B&B at Llewellyn Lodge
603 S. Main Street
Lexington, Va 24450

The Favorite Lodging Place of W&L Parents & Visitors
For Over 23 Years
Featuring the Best Breakfast and Most Comfortable Beds

In Town

Close to Campus

www.IIodge.com
540-463-3235
Toll Free- 1-800-882-1145

John & Ellen Roberts, Innkeepers

Outstanding Guided Flyfishing Trips For Trout
Daily Updates wvvw.vatrout.com

 

 

10 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

  sports

 

Hockey’s hea rtbrea ker

Team falls to Lynchburg in season ﬁnale, takes 3 seeed in ODAC tournament

By Mlchael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

On Tuesday evening the Washington and
Lee ﬁeld hockey team took the ﬁeld for the
last time during the regular season against
rival Lynchburg, losing a heartbreaker 3-2 in
overtime.

The Generals did not come out playing
with the intensity one would expect of a rival-
ry game. Lynchburg dominated the first twen-
ty-ﬁve minutes but was only able to capitalize
once when Jessie Bowman scored 13 minutes
into the game.

The Generals ﬁnally showed some signs of
life in the last ten minutes of the half. Within a
span of ﬁve minutes, the team won three pen-

alty corners. With ﬁve minutes to play in the
half, they converted as senior Kendall Korte
squeezed a shot between the keeper and the
near post to tie the game at one.

“After Lynchburg scored initially, we knew
we had to answer back quickly and show them
that we were still in the game,” said junior
Christina Merchant. “After we scored the ﬁrst
time, it boosted everyone’s conﬁdence, and we
began to play even better.”

Less than a minute later, Lynchburg put the
ball in the back of the net, but it was called
back for an offside infraction, leaving the
score tied at one going into halftime.

In the second half, the Generals came out
ﬂat again allowing Lynchburg to control play
for the ﬁrst ﬁfteen minutes. It took multiple

  
  
   
  

  
 

Junior Tommy
Pignatelli
scored the
General’s
only goal du _
lng a 1-1 tie
with H-SC.

By Mlchael Keenan
sponrs eonon

Since October 16th, the Washington and
Lee men’s soccer team has wrapped up its
ODAC regular season with a 1-0 victory over
Emory & Henry, a" 1-0 overtime loss against
Virginia Wesleyan, and a 1-1 draw with
Hampden-Sydney.

Against Emory & Henry, senior Jack
Palmer scored that game’s lone goal in the
36th minute. The Generals controlled the
game throughout making the ﬁnal 1-0 score
deceptive.

“We out shot them 35-5 and had 18 comer
kicks,” said senior Josh Dodds. “It wasn’t
very close.”

After defeating Emory & Henry last week,
the Generals improved to 10-1-2 overall and
6-0-1 in conference, they held pole posi-
tion and were looking to secure home ﬁeld
advantage for the tournament. However, the
ﬁnal two games would be the toughest of the
ODAC season, and the team was only able to
salvage one point, dropping them to the third
seed.

On Saturday, the Generals traveled to
Norfolk, Va., to take on Virginia Wesleyan. It
took more than the 90 regulation minutes to

MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor

saves by Rubenstein to keep the score tied at
one.

With less than 23 minutes to play, W&L
was awarded a penalty comer and freshman
Kelly Tran redirected a ‘shot from sophomore
Sallie Armstrong to give the Generals a 2-1
lead. The lead didn’t last for long. Less than a
minute later Lynchburg answered with a goal
of their own to tie the game at two.

In overtime, the Generals looked like a dif-
ferent team.

“We really become a different team in over-
time,” said Merchant. “The 7-a-side formation
allows us to stay spread out, and really use the
turf to our advantage.”

However, the Generals were unable to turn
their advantage into a game-winning goal. Six

_ _ _ _ MICHAEL KEENAN / Sports Editor
Senior goalie Tara Rubenstien makes a save against Lynchburg.

minutes into the overtime period, until they
surrended a penalty comer and Lynchburg
converted for the 3-2 win. The loss dropped
the Generals to 10-6, 5-2 in ODAC play,
which is good enough for the third seed in the
playoffs.

The Hornets held a 12-7 advantage in shots
and a 15-7 advantage in penalty comers. If not
for the Generals’ defense and goalkeeping of
senior goalkeeper Tara Rubenstein, the game
could have been a blowout.

The past week was not without its upside
though. On Saturday, the team traveled to play
Virginia Wesleyan and emerged with a 3-2
overtime victory.

The Generals took the lead when Armstrong

separate the Generals from
the 21st ranked Marlins.
There was no score after 90
minutes of regulation.

Five minutes into the
ﬁrst overtime, Virginia
Wesleyan’s Brandon
Massie found Clay Price
for the game ending

score.
The loss dropped

the Generals to 6-1-

1 in the ODACs and

a ﬁrst place tie with

Hampden-Sydney.
When Hampden-

Sydney arrived at
Watt Field on Tuesday afternoon, it brought
with it a contrasting formation that neces-
sitated the Generals make some adjustment.
While W&L usually lines up in a 4-3-2-1,
Hampden-Sydney plays a 4-3-3.

“They play with 3 forwards so their game
plan is to hit it long and have someone track
it down,” said senior Josh Dodds. “From our
end they crammed the center midﬁeld with 3
guys and were pushing up defenders on our
outside mids, so we took what they gave us
which was the long ball to the comer.”

The game got off to an ominous start in
the ﬁrst minute when a Hampden-Sydney
forward broke through and dribbled senior
goalkeeper Ted Sheedy but was denied by
sophomore J.P. Pratt, who cleared the ball off
the goal line.

From the outset, neither team was able to
possess the ball to build up an attack. Serious
scoring opportunities were limited for both
teams. With ﬁfteen minutes to play in the
half, junior Tommy Pignatelli dribbled down
the right side and ﬁred a low shot passed the
outstretched arms of the Hampden-Sydney
keeper, off the far post to give the Generals a
1-0 lead. The Generals had a few more chanc-
es in the half but were unable to convert, leav-
ing the lead at one.

found the back of the net off a pass from Alex
Caritis with only three minutes to play in the
ﬁrst half. However, the Marlins came back in
the second half, tying the game in the ﬁrst ten
minutes when Katie Melzac scored. Melzac
struck again 17 minutes later to give the Mar-
lins a 2-1 advantage.

The Generals refused to quit. Just three
minutes after Virginia Wesleyan took the lead,
Korte responded with an unassisted goal to tie
the game at two.

“If we hadn’t come back from being down
2-1, I don’t know what would have happened.
It would have thrown off so many things
— seeding, home ﬁeld for Parents Weekend,
etc.,” said Garson.

With neither team able to ﬁnd the net again
in regulation, the game went to overtime. With
less than three minutes to play in the ﬁrst half
of overtime, Merchant ended the game by
scoring with an assist from sophomore Steph-
anie Mansey.

“Until Saturday we had never beaten Va
Wes at their ﬁeld,” said Garson. “I think it was
a mental thing we had to get over - knowing
we could beat them on their ﬁeld.”

On Sunday, the Generals traveled to Cap-
tains Field to take on fourth ranked Christo-
pher Newport. The Captains started out fast,
scoring twice within the ﬁrst six minutes. Then
the Generals settled down and only allowed
one goal the remainder of the game, losing by
a ﬁnal score of 3-0.

“If you take away the ﬁrst ﬁve or ten min-
utes from the game I think we played very well
against CNU,” said Garson. “We didn’t come
out ready to play the ﬁrst part of the game and
that showed when they scored two quick goals
on us.”

The Generals will resume play this week-
end at home in the ﬁrst round of the ODAC
playoffs, against Bridgewater, a team they

defeated during the regular season.

“I think we can deﬁnitely beat Bridge-
water if we stay focused on the game,” said
Merchant. “It is easy to look past Bridgewater
since we already beat them in the regular sea-
son. However, it is important to keep in mind
that anything can happen during the touma-
ment, and we need to make sure we bring our
A game.”

If the Generals win, they will take on the
winner of the Lynchburg/Virginia Wesleyan
game. If the Hornets wins, the Generals will
travel to Lynchburg for a rematch.

“Facing Lynchburg again will deﬁnitely
be a huge challenge,” said Merchant. “After
tonight’s game, our team is anxious to see
Lynchburg again, and prove to them that we
can win.”

  ODAC’s loom for soccer  

Generals host Lynchburg Saturday in quarterﬁnals

Ten minutes into the second half, Hamp-
den-Sydney tied the score when Will Rob-
ertson headed home a cross at the back post.
After the goal, Hampden—Sydney’s opportu-
nities were few and far between.

The Generals, however, had a number of
chances to put the game away both in regula-
tion and overtime. Junior Whit Larkin broke
free a number of times and Dodds threatened
with a few times but each time Hampden-
Sydney’s goalie John Robert Plyler was up to
the challenge. Plyler ﬁnished the game with
nine saves.

With neither team able to score again in
the two overtime periods, the game ended in
a 1-1 tie. With Virginia Wesleyan’s 2-0 vic-
tory over Randolph-Macon that same day,
the Marlins stole the top seed for the ODAC
playoffs. Because of predetermined lots,
Hampden-Sydney held the tiebreaker over
the Generals and received the second seed
leaving the Generals in third.

Injuries will be a major obstacle for the
Generals to overcome during the ODAC
playoffs. The season has taken its toll and
some members aren’t able to play at the same
level while the reserves are stretched limiting
the number of fresh substitutions.

“We are incurring more and more inju-
ries,” said Pignatelli. “Three of our four out-
side midﬁelders are injured.”

The Generals will start their run in the
ODAC playoffs at home this Saturday against
Lynchburg.

While Coach Rolf Piranian left open the
possibility of an at-large bid to the NCAA
playoffs, he hinted that it would most likely
take an ODAC championship for the Gener-
als to continue their season.

“Nothing from the regular season mat-
ters anymore,” said Dodds when asked how
the team will recover from two tough games.
“The seeds have been determined and it’s just
a matter of winning the next game or having
our season ended. ‘

Sports and family

My father ivﬁrst trip to Camden Yards

By Amor Nelll Thuparl
COLU M msr

As Parents’ Weekend approaches here at W&L, I thought
it’d be ﬁtting to take the time to reﬂect on the role that sports
can play in a family. For some people, the realm of sports is
nothing more than a short break from reality. Simply there
for entertainment purposes, these people view all forms of
sport as a brief distraction from their everyday lives, and I
understand their sentiments. However, since the ﬁrst time I
experienced the daily excitement and emotion of following
the Orioles in a heated pennant race, or the ﬁrst time I wit-
nessed the sheer, unadulterated drama that unfolds with the
NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament, I knew that sports was
something that meant much more. Unfortunately, my mother
and father never really shared the same feelings that I had, nor
did we spend time together embracing sports. Of course, this
changed on one unforgettable night last year.

It was a fairly cool Monday night on September 11, 2006,
when the New York Yankees played the Baltimore Orioles in
the ﬁnal game between the two teams at Camden Yards that
season. My beloved Orioles came in close to 20 games under
.500 with no shot at the postseason whatsoever while the Yan-
kees entered amidst a tight race atop the division standings,
vying for a 9th consecutive AL East title. Nonetheless, this
seemingly insigniﬁcant contest would wind up being one of
the most memorable and meaningful in my life, not because
of what transpired on the ﬁeld, but because of whom I was
with that evening. I say this because on that night for the ﬁrst
time in my life, I attended an Orioles baseball game with both
my mother and father. Now, since I was a child, I have been to
countless baseball games with friends, other family members,
and even with just my mom, but on that night my dad, for the
ﬁrst time in the 24 years that he has been in this country, went
to a baseball game. Sure, he had seen baseball numerous times
before on television, but never did he actually come to Cam-
den Yards, or any stadium for that matter, and take in all the
sights, sounds and smells that come with time spent at the ball
park. As one might imagine, everything that my family and I
experienced that day just seemed better than any of my previ-
ous trips to Oriole Park. From the smell of the grass, to the
peanuts and Dippin’ Dots, it was, without a doubt, my most
enjoyable time at an Orioles game since the mid-1990s when
we were contenders. Being able to share everything that I love
about the game of baseball and the Baltimore Orioles with
my mom and dad was something that I had never experienced
before, and looking back, I am truly glad that I was able to
cherish every moment of it.

For sports fans and enthusiasts across the nation, there is
an understanding of the possibility of sports transcending the
principles of competition and the subsequent accolades into
something much more meaningful. When it’s not about wins
and losses, but recognition of the extraordinary taking place
and being able to enjoy it with the people with whom you’re
sharing the moment. Moments like these happened in game 5
of last season’s Eastem Conference Finals of the NBA Play-
offs when LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers scored 48
points, including the Cavaliers’ ﬁnal 25, en route to a double
overtime victory over the highly favored Detroit Pistons. I
will never forget sitting along side my dad at home, leaning
forward eagerly anticipating what would happen next. If you
were watching the game last June, you knew that you were
watching something truly special, and there was no way you
could tear yourself away from the television.

As for the game itself, that night played out the way most
Oriole games of recent memory have. The Birds jumped out
to a 5-2 lead on the feared Yankee ace, Randy Johnson, only
to have the bullpen give up 6 runs in the 7"‘ inning. The icing
on the cake was Alex Rodriguez’s solo homerun in the 9”‘ in-
ning to put the game away as the Yankees went on to win by
a score of 9-6.

Nevertheless, for me that game in Baltimore was one of
these instances where watching the sport and realizing whom
I was with transcended any other game that I had previously
attended. Regardless of the outcome of the contest, I knew
that being with my family, being together and enjoying the at-
mosphere and experience meant far more than what the score-
board read. So as we look towards spending time with our
parents here in Lexington this weekend, I hope some of you
can look back and identify some of the moments that you’ve
spent with your parents celebrating sports, whether it be base-
ball, college football, professional basketball, or anything of
the like.’You just may be surprised at some of the memories
you have shared.

«ﬁe

.‘CxTl1is . ..

Photography by Kristy  Wﬁght

*oem'wL and ﬁanuzy pwtbwtito *advew'oemento
*  "opecia€tg. mat cutting
*  pictwwa *"‘P&050 
*  caygdg T065130! wllageo

Open Tuesday thru Friday 12—5pm
Nights and weekends by appointment.

‘llniuewitr; ‘lliliageatﬂietme/L.7Cwme'L
2474 ./Magndiadueste 114

fl3uena ‘Uiota, ‘Ua 24416
540-261-2869

www.photographybypicturethis.smugmug.com

 

 

g to get a bid to the tournament, and re-

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 11

sports

 

“Mule El. KE AN / Sports

Anne Van Devender tries to dribble out of trouble. She finished with 10 goals this season.

Next up: Eastern Mennonite, whom they beat 3-] this week

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee women’s soccer
team went 3-1 during its ﬁnal four games, end-
ing the year winning nine of 10.

The Generals traveled to play Rhodes Col-
lege last Sunday, Oct. 14, at'a neutral site in
North Carolina. The team came out fast as
they have done all season and scored a goal
in the first 15 minutes. Senior Captain Haley
Bunting converted a goal off a pass from an-
other captain, Anne Van Devender. This tan-
dem has hooked up many times throughout
their Careers. 5

Rhodes’ Diana Buss responded just 15
‘minutes later (30:50) with a goal that knotted

the score at 1-1. The score remained the same

§as‘tlié'te'anis‘wént iiitb halftiin’e"."  ' ' .

I "W&L cpenedup the second half the same
-way it did in the ﬁrst by scoring eight minutes
into period. This time, Van Devender scored
a goal on her own to give the Generals a 2-1
advantage. This goal turned out to be the game
winner as W&L rolled past the Lynx and ex-
tended its winning streak to eight games.

This game marked the ﬁrst time since the
loss to Virginia Wesleyan on Sept. 22 in which
they team allowed a goal.

“Our success since the Virginia Wesleyan
game is due to our team’s determination to win
and to be the best team on the ﬁeld at any giv-
en time,” said goalie junior Kiki Moreo who
had eight saves in the winning effort. “We are
determined and driven to succeed, and that
is why we have managed to only let in one
goal.”

This game also marked Coach Neil Cun-
ningham’s 100th win as W&L’s women’s soc-
cer coach.

“It was nice to be recognized for the 100th
‘win, but to be honest, it was not something I
was aware of until people brought it up,” said
Cunningham. “I think more impressive than
the 100 wins is the fact that we have only lost
'18 games in that time frame.”

The Generals then faced rival Lynchburg at
home on Watt Field in a pivotal ODAC confer-
ence game on Oct. 17. Both teams were 7-1 in
conference heading into the important match.

The game started out fast-paced with both

teams racing down to their opponents’ ends
of the ﬁeld, but neither team could capitalize
on the shot opportunities. The action bounced
back and forth without either team being able
to score through the ﬁrst 45 minutes of play.
In the ﬁrst half, both coaches made numerous
substitutions in order to ﬁnd the right combi-
nation of players to break the deadlock, but
they came up empty.

W&L caught the ﬁrst break of the game
when Van Devender’s cross into the box de-
ﬂected off of a Lynchburg defender and went
into the goal in the 54th minute. This seren-
dipitous play ended the scoring drought.

Van Devender capped off the afternoon by
sending home a shot that she received after it
caromed off the pipe in the ﬁnal ﬁve minutes.

-A “Lynchburg is always» a-big game,” said V

Moreo after the game. “We get ﬁred up to play
them, and they get ﬁred up to play us. For us,
losing was not an option. We know what our
post-season‘ aspirations are and to achieve
those we needed to beat Lynchburg.”

The Generals traveled to play Roanoke in
their second to last game of the year. Both
teams had identical 8-1 records in conference
heading into the match and were playing for a
two seed in the upcoming conference touma-
ment. W&L had not lost to the Maroons since
2001.

The intensity exerted on the ﬁeld matched
the importance of the game. Just eight minutes
into the game, Roanoke received a penalty
kick and took advantage of the opportunity
,making the score 1-0.

Both teams battled hard throughout the
game, amassing 33 total shots in the effort.
Roanoke held onto the lead until the Generals
ﬁnally capitalized in the last 10 minutes of the
game. Katie Corr scored an unassisted goal at
82:17 to send the game to overtime.

“When there was less than 10 minutes left,
we were getting pretty desperate, and even
though we weren’t haven’t a particularly good
game, it seemed as if we could still make it out
ofthe game with a tie or a win,” said Corr, “so
[I was] pretty ecstatic since we really needed
the win.”

The teams received few scoring chances in
the ﬁrst overtime, resulting in a second over-

time.

It appeared as though the game would end
in a tie when, with under three minutes to play,
Meredith Grunewald of Roanoke took a shot
that hit the crossbar and rolled into the back
of the net. This ended the game, 2-1, with a
Maroon victory.

“We did not play our game on Saturday,”
said Corr after the game. “When we do play
our game, we can beat just about anyone.
So although this makes our road more dif-
ﬁcult, our team still has the ability to go to
[the NCAA Tournament] and to do very well.
We have been playing very well the past few
games, and we just need to learn from Satur-
day that the past few games don’t matter.”

The Generals ended the regular season on
a high note by defeating Eastern Mennonite
3-1.

In typical W&L fashion, the team scored
just seven minutes into the game. Van Dev-
ender fed Katie Kern for the ﬁrst goal at 7:01.
Then, one minute before halftime, Shana Olt-
mans was the recipient of another Van Dev-
ender pass that resulted in a goal. Fifteen min-
utes into the second half, Van Devender put a
goal in on her own, advancing the score to 3-0,
and the team did not look back.

The defense was equally impressive in the
outing, allowing one goal in the waning mo-
ments of the game. Also, the defense only sur-
rendered ﬁve shots in total and only two on
target.

The team ﬁnished the regular season with
an overall record of 15-3 and 9-2 record in
conference.

The Generals are the three seed in the up-
coming ODAC Women’s Soccer Tournament
and will face the six seed, Eastern Mennonite,
on Saturday at home on Watt Field.

Earlier in the week, Cunningham reiterated
that the team’s goal is still to win the ODAC
championship.

“As we enter the remainder of our sched-
ule, we just need to maintain our focus and
commitment to each other and work to that
common goal: winning an ODAC title,” said
Cunningham.

Volleyball

continued from page 12

volleyball world, we are like the Yan-
kees, Duke basketball, or Notre Dame
football - albeit on a much smaller
stage.”

In addition to extending W&L’s
streak of consecutive ODAC titles to
seven, winning the ODAC tournament
would guarantee the Generals would
continue their season in the NCAA
playoffs. However, Snyder was opti-
mistic the Generals would still have
an outside shot should they lose in the
conference tournament.

“If we can beat Rhodes this week-
end and we make it to the ﬁnals of the
ODAC tournament, I would think we
would have about a 25 percent chance
of getting an at-large bid,” said Sny-
der. “If we fail to do both of those
things, then I would think are chances
are very remote. We are going to fo-
cus on winning the ODAC as our way

ally give everything we have towards
that goal.”

The Generals will conclude their
regular season this weekend at the
Maryville Tournament taking on
Rhodes, the University of Cumber-
lands and host Maryville. The ODAC
tournament commences Nov. 2 ‘and
will be hosted by Hollins.

Cross Country

continued from page 12

well teams are able to perform against teams
that are not in their region,” explained Todd.
“We really seized this opportunity to race
against schools that we usually don’t get to
compete against, and everyone put in great
performances. We were all so excited because
proved ourselves against those out-of-region
teams, and we ended up 2nd out of 23 teams!
We were also extremely happy with our ﬁn-
ish because we were only 34 points behind St.
Thomas, a nationally-ranked team.”

“We wanted to be the dark horse that no

one saw coming,” said Taylor. “Practicing on _

the course the day before really helped with the
mental preparation because being able to visu-
alize all the twists and turns before-hand helps
you break down the race into manageable parts
and gives you an edge over the competition.”

The Generals will conclude their season
next Saturday at home for the ODAC Cham-
pionships. Home-ﬁeld advantage is especially
signiﬁcant considering W&L’s course is one of
the most difﬁcult in the country.

“Our course is the most difficult course in
Virginia, one of the top in the country, requir-
ing 9.23 percent more energy to run than the
same distance on a track,” explained men’s
coach John Tucker. “We’re going to use the
experience we have running our course and
we’re going to take advantage of knowing it’s
our course.”

“I think we are all super stoked to have
ODACS on our home course,” said Taylor.

“The home course advantage is going to be
great, especially with all the support of our fel-
low Generals. And whether or not we love or

I hate our course (I lean towards love), we know

it better than anyone else.”

“Running on our home course is a huge help
for us; it may be the deciding factor,” added
Brower.

The team’s preparations began long before
they reported for preseason camp in August.

“Preparing begins in the summer so the team
has been running since June, up to 75 miles a
week,” said Tucker. “At this point, the work is
done.” He added that this year’s team includes
“an impressive group of young men.”

“To get excited for ODACS, the team is doing
psych buddies during the two weeks leading up
to ODACS,” said Todd when asked about how
the women’s team is preparing. “Each member
of the team is responsible for getting another
member of the team psyched for ODACS.

“We each made knick-knacks, posters, and
little gifts for our psych buddy’s locker this
week, and I think that we might be making
tasty treats for our psych buddies in the next
few days. It is a great way to come together
as a team and to get everyone excited for
ODACS!”

This year, look to see Telfeyan, Todd, and
Taylor leading the women’s team, while Welsh,
Berry, and Brower lead the men’s team.

“The goal is to run your best and run at the
level you are capable of,” said Tucker.

Must win

I/Wth two conference losses on the
books, W&L needs to beat Bridgewater

By Brian Devlne
STAFF WRITER

A chance to win a conference title. A pair of conference losses
on the road. A must-win game on Parents’ Weekend.

Sound familiar?

For the second consecutive year, the Washington and Lee
football season is on the line in front of the Wilson Field crowd.
Sitting fourth in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference at 4-2
(2-2 in conference), a talented but inconsistent Generals squad
faces their perennial nemesis, the Bridgewater Eagles, in a 1:00
p.m. contest on Saturday. It will be the squad’s last home game
of 2007 and their best chance to prove that they belong at the top
of the ODAC standings.

Last year W&L defeated Emory & Henry 24-6 on Parents’
Weekend to claim their ﬁrst ODAC crown since 1985 and ap-
peared in their ﬁrst postseason since the 1951 Gator Bowl. This
year the championship picture is a good deal more murky. The
Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets currently sit atop the table, un-
defeated in conference play. Behind them sit the Hampden-Syd-
ney Tigers at, 4-1 within the ODAC, followed by Bridgewater
(2-1) and W&L. For the Generals to emerge from the pack, they
will need to beat the Eagles on Saturday and follow it with a
win at E&H next weekend. That would place the Generals at 4-
2, meaning Randolph—Macon and Hampden-Sydney will have to
lose again in conference play for W&L to repeat.

All the permutations depend ﬁrst and foremost on a win on
Saturday. Bridgewater was picked ﬁrst in the preseason ODAC
poll (W&L was second) and led the conference for most of last
year before a pair of late losses consigned them to second place.
The Eagles are again led by tailback Phillip Carter and a stiﬂing,
aggressive pass defense that has registered eight interceptions
in the past two weeks. They have struggled offensively of late,
however, beating Emory & Henry last week only on a ﬁeld goal
in the ﬁnal seconds. »

The Generals, by contrast, won decisively last Saturday, be-
coming the ﬁrst ODAC team to effectively stop Guilford’s top-
ranked aerial attack. It was the Generals’ ﬁrst road win since the
ﬁfth week of last season. The defense, run off the ﬁeld in the
shootout loss at Hampden-Sydney two weeks ago, returned to its
usual form and held Josh Vogelbach and the Quakers to just 282
total yards (they had averaged over 500 yards per game on the
season). Luby recorded 13 solo tackles and was named ODAC

Bridgewater was picked ﬁrst in the pre-
season ODAC poll (W&L was second) and
led the conference for most of last year
before a pair of late losses consigned them
to second place. 1
The Eagles are again led by tailback Phil-
lip Carter and a stifling, aggressive pass
defense that has registered eight intercep-
tions in the past two weeks.

Defensive Player of the Week. Safety Chris Prugar preserved the
victory when he intercepted Vogelbach with less than two min-
utes remaining and the score at 17-13 in favor of the Blue and
White. On the ensuing possession, Stuart Sitterson ran for his
second touchdown of the night to seal the victory, 24-13. The de-
fensive performance that held Vogelbach to just 201 yards pass-

. ing and three interceptions was undoubtedly the Blue Menace’s

best since the opening weekend shutout of Franklin & Marshall.

The Generals offense clicked smoothly for the second consec-
utive week, led by Sitterson’s 147 all-purpose yards. Quarterback
R.J. Vamer again had a mixed performance, throwing for 257
yards but also throwing two interceptions for the third time this
season. Sitterson has taken on an increased role in the offense of
late, often at the expense of early-season standout Tom Pacicco.
Sitterson totaled a school-record 389 all-purpose yards, includ-
ing 189 on kick returns, in the loss at Hampden-Sydney. Varner
also set a school record in that game, throwing ﬁve touchdown
passes. But the combined efforts of the Generals’ offensive stal-
warts were not enough to overcome the Tigers’ top-ranked of-
fense, and the visitors lost 42-45. Luby, Bryant Fulk and the rest
of the defense proved totally unable to stop Hampden-Sydney’s
dynamic duo of quarterback Corey Sedlar (295 yards, 1 TD) and
running back Josh Simpson (259 all-purpose yards, 4 TDs), who
have Tiger fans thinking championship.

For most people, the conference title race has been pared
down to Randolph-Macon, Hampden-Sydney, and the winner
of Saturday’s Eagles-Generals contest. A loss would make it ab-
surdly difﬁcult for the Generals to win the conference, and ef-
fectively, their season is on the line. All the dominoes will have
to fall into place. Bridgewater depends on Carter and the running
game to control possession, gaining points while denying oppo-
nents the chance to score. Stopping the run will fall primarily to
DT Scott Russell, MLBS Ryan MacPhee and Kyle Harvey, and
SS Kyle Luby, the team’s leader in tackles. On the offensive side
of the ball, either Sitterson or Pacicco will need to turn in a domi-
nating performance to eat up the game clock and perhaps leave
Jack Martin, just 19 receptions shy of the school’s all-tiine mark,
in single coverage, where he has been enormously successful all
year

Finally, the Generals will need vocal support from the fans.
Parents’ Weekend last year was a vocal, standing-room only
crowd that celebrated with the squad as they won an ODAC
championship. The trophy will not be awarded on Saturday, but
if W&L wants any hope of defending their title, the road will
start there. I

 

  

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2007

  

12 - THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

  
  

   
   
 

     

FRI

 

Tues WED Tnuns

Football

°°A° ooAc or
isemlﬂnals ,,s_
TBD Frldgewater

°¢‘- 31 3:00 pm.
ODAC or

VS.

Lynchburg
2:30 p.m.

Flold
Hockey

Mon’:
Soccer

ODAC
semlﬂnalsi
TBD
Oct. 31

ODAC QF
vs. EMU
12:00 p.m.

Women's
Soccer

at at
Maryvllle Maryvllle
Tourney Tourney

4:00 p.m. 12:30 p.m.
ODAC

champIon-
ships
11:00 a.m.
ODAC
Champion-
shlps
11:00 a.m.

Nolloybalm

Women’:
xc

lMon’s xc

Ell?"

vs.
Transylvanl
12:00 p.m.

at
Brldgewater
Nov. 3

 

numbers
389

All-purpose yards for Stuart Sitterson against Hampden—Sydney. Sitter-

son’s performance set a new school record.

5

Touchdowns thrown by R.J. Varner against Hampden-Sydney, also

good for a new school record.

15

Goals scored by Sallie Armstrong this season, just four away from teh

W&L sing|e—season record set by Kelly Taffe in 2003.

10

Assists this season by Anne Van Devender this season, tied for the
most assists in the ODAC. Her 10 goals are the second higest total of

all ODAC players.

6

Shutouts recorded this season in conference play by senior goalkeep-

er Ted Sheedy, the most of any keeper in the ODAC.

box

“Our biggest obstacle is probably the fact taht we

 

have won the past six championships and 10 out
of the past 12, so everyone gives us their best
match and wants to make sure we don’t win an-
other one. Within the ODAC volleyball world we’re
like the Yankees, Duke basketball, or Notre Dame
football - albeit on a much smaller stage.

I W&L volleyball coach Bryan Snyder.

“To let our opponents know that we intend to
pillage our opponents, not just win. We want to
demonstrate that we’re a nationally competitive
team.”

Senlor Tlm Mcelaston when asked about the slgnlﬂcance of the men’s
swlmmlng team's 163-93 victory over Mary Washington. '

MICHAEL KEENAN /Sports Editor

Juniors Abbey Wilson and Laura Maurer block a Lynchburg attack during Wednesday night's action.

By Michael Keenan
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s vol-
leyball team wrapped up ODAC regular
season play with a 30-21, 30-32, 30-27,
30-22.

Even though the team’s playoff seed
was already secured regardless of the out-
come, the players stayed focused on the
game.

“Every game is a chance for us to im-
prove as a team, and Lynchburg is a good
team,” said senior Lauren Rudolph. Even
though we have the number two spot in the
ODAC secured, that of course is not our
ﬁnal goal of the season — we need to con-
tinue to get better every day, and the game
against Lynchburg is another opportunity
to do that.”

The team came out swinging, opening a
7-1 advantage in the first game. Down 24-
17, Lynchburg tried to make a run, scoring
two points off their serve, but back-to-back
kills by Rachel Phillips extended the lead
to 26-19. Leading 28-21, Rudolph served
up back to back aces to secure game one
for the Generals, 30-21.

In game two, the Generals jumped out
to an early 5-1 lead. After extending their
lead to 11-4, Lynchburg burned a time out
to try to stop the game from getting out of
reach. The Hornets regained their compo-
sure and came out with a 5-1 run of their
own to close to within three but the Gen-
erals remained unshaken an extended heir
lead to 17-10.

The Generals continued to roll until
Lynchburg used its second timeout, trail-
ing 22-14. Coming out of the timeout, the
Hornets reeled off ﬁve straight, forcing the
Generals to take a timeout of their own.
Lynehburg’s roll continued as Hornets won
ﬁve of the next seven to tie the game at 24-
24. Then the Generals opened up a three
point lead but could not ﬁnish as Lynch-
burg tied the game at 29-29. Lynchburg
ended the game four points later, 32-30.

In game three it was the Hornets who
jumped out to the early lead. However.
the Generals fought back to tie the game
at 11-11. The game remained close until
the Generals opened a 20-17 lead, forcing
Lynchburg to take a timeout. Out of the
timeout, Lynchburg took six of the next
eight to take a 23-22 lead. This time, the
Generals rose to the challenge, winning the
game 30-27.

In game four, the Generals opened with
a 6-0 run but could not sustain the advan-
tage, giving up the next five in a row. The
game was back and forth until the Gener-
als opened up a 19-15 advantage and never
looked back, winning the fourth game 30-
22.

The win was W&L’s 19th in a row and
improved W&L’s reocrd to 23-5, 9-1 in
conference.

encc,” said Hudock. “We have proven to
ourselves that we are a‘ great team, espe-
cially with coming out of our past couple
tournaments without a loss. We have more
conﬁdence in our abilities and our chem-
istry on the court is much more ﬂuid and
controlled than it was in the beginning of
the season.”

“Wc‘ve developed a lot of conﬁdence
and more of a “killer instinct” when play-
ing teams," said sophomore Megan Stein-
hardt. “We’ve been able to win a lot of
close matches which helps us remain calm-
er when a match gets tight again.”

“Once we started playing the way we
knew we could, our conﬁdence and ener-
gy improved tremendously," said Maurer.
“This really showed when we played CNU
for the second time. They beat us really
easily the ﬁrst time we played them, but we

“We ’ve developed a /at 0_f'c0nﬁclen(%e and more ofa ‘killer

instinct ’when playing teams. "

Sophomore Megan Steinhardt

 

The team has come a long way since
opening the season 4-5, including dropping
their ﬁrst ODAC regular season match.

“It took a few matches for the 6 play-

ers on the court to come together and play _

as a team,” said Rudolph. “With every new
year, there are different personnel on the
court than the year before, and it took__ us
awhile to get comfortable in that new sitti-
ation.”

Since then, the team has put together a
19 match winning streak, including eight
ODAC wins and a 3-2 victory over Chris-
topher Newport, in a tournament hosted by
CNU, who had swept the Generals in their
ﬁrst match of the season.

“Our biggest change since the ﬁrst time
we played CNU is conﬁdence and experi-

really came together in that second match
and all gave 100% because we knew we
had improved a lot and had a great chance
of beating them.” -
The team is seeded second going into
the ODAC playoffs, with their only loss
coming in the ﬁrst match of the season
against Bridgewater. Even though they are
seeded second, the team still has a target on
their backs and will have to stay focused
each match rather than looking ahead.
“Our biggest obstacle is probably the
fact that we have won the past 6 champion-
ships and 10 out ofthe past 12, so everyone
gives us their best match and wants to make
sure that we don’t win another one,” said
Coach B1'yan Snyder. “Within the ODAC
See “Volleyball” on page 11

Runners seek fourth consecutive title

Teams hope to retain conference championship on home course

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

Over Reading Days, the men’s and women’s cross country teams
were on the road Saturday morning to ﬁnish the last of their regular
season meets. The men traveled to William and Mary to compete in
the Tribe Open, while the women were in Allentown, Pennsylvania,

for the Desales Invitational.

At the Tribe Open, the Generals top runners were junior Michael
Welsh who ﬁnished 31st in a time of 26:20, junior Vance Berry who
ran in a time of 26:30 to take 35th, and senior Tom Brower who cap-
tured 38th after completing the course in 26:33.

“We ran pretty well,” Brower commented. “Although there is no
ofﬁcial team scoring, Mary Washington beat us by about ﬁve points

and we were able to beat Bridgewater. Our only real plan was to try . 

and close up the gap between our 4-5, which has been an issue for 
most of the season, and could be a deciding factor at ODACS.”
The meet was also important for boosting the team’s conﬁdence

going into postseason competition.

“It was an important meet insofar as we’re now entering champi-
onship season on a positive note,” Brower noted.

Meanwhile, the lady Generals were busy in Allentown taking care
of business. The women took second and ﬁnished only 34 points be-
hind nationally ranked St. Thomas. Out of 203 runners, Washington
and Lee’s top runs included sophomore Katherine Telfeyan’s ﬁnish
in ﬁfth with a time of 24:23, and junior Rebecca Taylor who took
seventh with a time of 24:31. Sophomore Dorothy Todd crossed the
ﬁnish line in 25:16 to take 18th while junior Elizabeth Webb ﬁnished
22nd in a time of 25:16 and freshman Christine Balisterri ﬁnished in

a time of 25:18 to capture 24th.

“[The meet was] a really big deal for us,” said Taylor. “I am so

proud of how awesome the entire team did!”

Running against out-of-region teams is extremely important for a

team striving to make it to nationals.

“When the time rolls around for the NCAA to offer teams bids to I

STACY DOORNBOS /Contributin Photographer

Nationals, one of the criteria the selection committee looks at is how The men’s team win |o0k for strong performances
from juniors Vance Berry, Michael Welsh, and An-
thony Ives.

See “cross country” on page 11

“O

 

