THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

Vol, LXXIV LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 3, 1974 Number 3

Sports, grain, beauty on tap
for homecoming weekend

By the Phi News Staff \ homecoming queen will be gallons of grain were purchased

crowned during halftime of the for this event, at a cost of ap-
Washington and Lee holds its — foothall game, following delibera- proximately $1,175

1974 hae this weekend tions by a panel of faculty experts

 

When the football team faces who are experienced in judg- The festivities begin at 4 p.m.
Randolph-Macon College at 1:30 ing royalty. Dr. J. Keith Shilling- and end at 6:00 with the Mont-
p.m, Saturday. ton will preside at the coronation CYS supplying the entertain-
The same day the cross coun- ceremony, as he has each year ment, Jim Koch, the Sophmore
try team faces Roanoke College for almost two decades. class president, said that an effort
and Old Dominion University in \fter the football game the WIli be made to check class
a dual meet starting at 11:30 am. Sophomore class is sponsoring a  P@8S8es.
on the cross country course. grain party in Red Square. Thirty Saturday evening combo par-

ties are planned at most of the
fraternities on campus. These
parties are open to all regardless

* ® :
i nN of fraternity affiliation.
1quot = ry re ] 1 A rugby game closes homecom-

ing weekend Sunday afternoon
when the W&L RFC hosts Lynch-

referendum Set a at 2:00 on Alumni

Fall alumni reunions will also

 

 

By the Phi News Staff living in Lexington, or have be taking place this weekend.
a job in the Lexington area, o1 The classes of 1929, 1939, 1944
: . : There are only two days left have established a household 1954. ; . : = :
: : — 304, and 1969 meet on campus
No doubt the selection will be difficult to register for a November in Lexington are eligible to a ie he cle
Two WAL men examine the prospects for the selected and crowned at halftime of the Satur. liquor by-the-drink referendum vote.

sponting events, alumni activities
will inelude the traditional social
activities, class banquets and a

homecoming court from which a queen will be day football game. to which Washington and Lee Today and tomorrow. are
students may lend their sup- the last days students have to

? port. register for the election; since “report on the state of the uni-
6 . a’ If passed, the referendum Virginia law states registration versity,”
hn Op 1c W Or C 9 VV an O e O would allow the serving of must occur at least 30 days s

nixed drinks in Lexington before an eleetion.
restaurants, It will appear on The registrar’s office is open

to be presented in Doremus Gym | "ss: "se"a™ oats | EC budget

day and Friday. The office is

city registrar, W&L students located in Lexington City Hall,
By RYLAND OWEN been described as “an ee | : irsal and seare = for a ss who are self-supporting and West Washington St.
- « . fresh, stimulating and different dea, ‘Tight-rope walker, juggler, Taws ire
) : . “te I
Phi Staff Reporter kind of musical—delightful as an amd strongman are all old hat

rh Student Activities Board

 

 

 

: impertinent elf’s dance.” to the company, but by sheer
hel nnounced the presentation r musica is about Little accident he finds po sibilities in
Broadway musical produc- chap, a cireus clown. who eal] enacting th story of his life about cuts
m, “Stop the World—I Want to his company together for a re a present and futu
Of vv the original Broad : : :
Wa ist

ROBERT PIEDRAHITA
Phi Staff Reporter

rovical musical comedy

reented aan we. President moves out

 

 

\ representative from Contact,
| Oct, 16, at Doremus Gym Harrison Turnbull, expressed
mn. Tickets for the musical By the Phi News Staff the proverbial goldfish bow great dissappointment over Con-

S70 Phe Tluntlevs also have three tact's share of the 1974-75 budget
i — be an informal get President Hluntley and his d rhters, ranging in age from He said that Contact should have
, with the cast. one uy fam have abandoned the his Y to 16 vears, and raising them id that Contact should have
ul eleven girls, in the Cockpit torle President's Home on canpu 1 a home that backs up to an received more money due to the
‘ iid John Em and have established their re ii-male dormitory has posed a increased costs of presenting
‘ on of the recrea- ‘ence at 600 Ross Road. ew proven Gver ule yeu! speakers to the college. Turnbull
Hbentertainment subcommittee The new Huntley home wa said the parents of students would
of the SAB The move, completed early thi ed several vears ago. and have to bear the brunt of the
slop f{ World—I Want to ummer, Was apparentiy nade ve had been contemplated cost lle requested a §100 in
Get Off,” was labeled a triumph- ifford the Huntleys more priv some time: in the Hiterim crease in the allocations received
t hit in London before running acy, a «quality icking in the tad ae Semewnkion acai Turnbu aid he is hesitant to
xteen months in New York impus residence: on ee nade to the structure, and some peal to the LF.C. again for
i1usical has colleeted favor iy dent Huntley ha likened leling and jandseaping wa fund \s a result of these in
rte views from crities and has iving on campus to “living In unplished, ed costs, he expressed a con
nh that Contact might col lapse
Moviemaker, ad real one, comes to WEL campus Phe house is already familiar Larry Lyles, Chairman of the
» President Hluntley, as he lived Curriculum Committee, also de
By the Phi News Staff film about the own Was e for a time during his col ed an additional $70 for his
Wilding Productions Ine., a sub ‘ciate davs in Lexington committee due to the high cost
Movie ihe can to town d if be & Howe Is Dbeirng of printing. As it is, the commit
iin fa week, but this time commissioned by the organiza Phe Les Mansion a tee would net be able to poll a
elt entions were real, and tion of the Masons to make this now used for offielal university uiny students as it deems neces-
1 «pro ‘ of stardom were  doctimentary film about the Civil ha and receptions nomally : : ary to achieve a plausible stu
itt rout War, so naturally Wé&L’'s his osted hy the Huntleys, and pro ’ , ee lent concensus over courses at
in facet. the tomb of Robert EF toriea eampu including Lee Viele overnight accommodations ‘Old George’ WAL

io. wee tu ie goal of these Chapel is relevant. The film, with for guests of the university. Open Preshas \pplications’ dead
wiemukers as they filmed for wetry narration, has a shot of ne the main floor of the house Charles Willison Peale's portrait of George Washington in the Rg acme “ re os =
an hour and a half just to ie campus, then focuses on the to tourists is not foreseen at this uniform of a colonel in the Virginia militia and seven other paint. ing committees Was extended

| econds in a doc umentary recumbent General Lee. Lime, ings owned by the university have returned for a visit to their :

Monday by the BC to October 7

ignial home—Mount Vernon. The “Bicentennial homecoming.” “4
ovignial hor : ming, The positions are posted in bu

eshibit, which opens Friday, is the beginning of a two year na.

: ae ietin boards which are located
A il analysis tional tour for the historic WAL paintings. eens i

° — . ° 2. the campus.
Independent Union--what is it: *he Syllabus

does it really function aMYMOLE? fo. 9: me sate oe

 

 

 

 

 

 

pili
Friday
. . TTENBURG ' e second need. Th } ition of the seat on ieves that the original function : Macon, Ashland, 3 p.m
THOMAS RITTENBL \C, Now the officers will of the Union have disappeared \l ee ee aa
i funetion fi to the nio i \f SOM ‘ Hii Will UY - FU Hla ‘ and 30 om dini a
iv funetion left to th hon : ] ion
. i ? : ? ; t ti i i =|
Phi Staff Reporter SSS SSS == » broad wectrum of iit 1 lef it of th 5
i i tinion i Affa Comm i i it Wél \ ‘ ) mm nou Saturday, Homecoming
; ‘ vlepe ri ;
' i i i f les aon hing about het { “A .. . al : .
; tian? Ok : the ‘ i » Which each president Phere aa ne den of Un ' vueiis see | { Wa \ liounoke Colleu: and Old Dominion
inetior ( it i | . es so
ened minds hid f fil iependent Union at present what we have now inadeq ‘ ere, 11:30 a
+f iG | eave the vice-presiden ate,” he said. i Macon her 130 om
npn wil ; tie Dowels OT outgo pre ; ' I
, - : enior Warre llow I t ’
t } : t
i i t i ee i f i i
it ‘ ' a i e elet ni of a mol i and how p \dn ms!
i On i i :
\ ‘ min n ‘ ecullive moxurd ;
' ' e | 1 Was rea epresentatiy kecuty Sunday
tn | i uffered Lie \ ' ea iA Hi . | \ f these re VA :
shen tin . 4 } ; charac \ = é& * Co ni Field Pon
’ at of the campu thie nary pu COssal ‘ PhAN Monday
i ta ‘ i ‘ ‘ ‘ a ' i ' :
. \ cent do doe mis Pin ie yi ‘ erie it | news ‘ i i . _ ‘ ;
é M i | ‘ haiN L) Phe - i i | : f. -AN MibPont Ila
HieherHtiet main
va i reTred
: i , ‘ we of i ta youd Wood ak
; eli i i ai ti
— = i ‘ sorta c we Puesday
A esAl ‘ 4 te : ' '
i in ea i i ‘ . .
ente have a repre itive in i wit } ivi luPont, & p.m
e allered ‘ ‘ way nment | uvehe MBA ’
i
. i i etik ‘ ia i

 

i : i Ss j Hi (Cail i ,Uul
i i “ if hii aay il il

Phursday

é i it cle ' Co Guard, ¢
e takel i

. ‘ vi ‘ wut WA ( i Guild ewn ff i Win
+4wi 1 baw) = vv ITLL
‘ MW) | nive iv Center ‘ een JARS AR n Howard! ; ‘ i Halt (

i (0) 5 (8) tomorrow. Howard ”
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  

OUTLOOK and REVIEW

More to be pitied
than censured

The Executive Committee is at it again, It is beginning
its year on the wrong foot, Last week its members spent
hours working over the budgeting of student body funds and
in their desire to please everyone made some people slightly
unhappy.

Before commenting on the EC's budget here is a recount-
ing of the allottments it voted for the current academic year:

(Committee, allottment, amount requested, amount received

last year)

Ariel, $500, $1400.

Calyx, $7300, $8071.62, $7480.

Ring-tum Phi, $3900, $4250, $4000.

Contact, $4800, $5200, $4800.

Student Activities Board, $22,820, $24,000, (not funded from
student tax).

Student Bar Association, $3400, $3430, $3200.

Executive Committee, $1600, $2000, $1100.

Student Body Reserve Fund, $500, $2700, $3240.

Expense of Fund, $500, $500, $500.

Mock Convention, $2000, $2550, none.

Curriculum, $250, $380.50.

Rowing Club, $100.

The Student Recruitment Committee and the Outing Club
were denied an allottment.,

Recruitment Committee was not voted an
that its funds would come from
school, The Outing Club collects
group rather than the university
as a whole and therefore was not given any money. An
additional factor here was that the Outing Club did not ask

The Student
allottment on the premise
another source within the
dues and serves a limited

lor a specific appropriation, and one can hardly ask for a
handout unless one offers a definite proposal of some sort.

Of course, no one wants to have his budget cut to any
extent, Nevertheless the EC did its best to please all the
protagonists of this domestic melodrama called “budget hear-
ings.”

Unfortunately the EC bent over backwards. To begin
with, EC members showed supreme self-sacrifice when they
trimmed down their own budget to within $500 of the amount
they spent last year, They spent hours and hours of grueling
labor on everyone else's budget and in the end voted a big
cut in their own funds, This hardly seems just.

The publications can make it one way or the other and
could even take some money out of their reserve fund, All
the others can reorganize their budgets around the fairly

minimal cuts that were made.

We applaud the EC
to the Student Activities Board. They are obviously looking

members for giving so much money

out for their children and trying to see that we have a good
time. We only hope that they have not forced themselves
into a position where they cannot afford to have fun them-
selves,

lf any group in this school deserves a reward for its

labors it is the EC. We hope they will have enough money
to have one hell of a good banquet this year, If they spent
$250 on this fete last vear they should add about 100 per cent
inflation to that and have a party that wil Imake Olimpia
\ldebrandini and David de Rothchild green with envy,

\ few suggestions could be made for the 1974-75 EC gala.
We suggest that it rent the Arlington House, one of General
Lee's residences, and have an eight course formal dinner
served on the Reeves Collection of Chinese export porcelain.
Phe dinner should include truffles flown over from Paris and

salmon brought from Nova Seotia, Other nice additions

would include quantities of lranian caviar and a goodly

e
supply of Chateau Lafitte-Rothehild '57-—-we can hardly ex

pect our student government to imbibe some domestic wine,

It is acceptable (just barely) for the EC to show such

remarkable justice and their allocation of funds;

we only ask that it make certain that they receive their
own reward before the great hereatter.

merey im

JLB

THE RING-TUM PHI

fhe Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879, Subscription
rates: $7.00 for the school year.
Editor-in-chief

REEVES

Husiness Manager
DAVID KR, LEI
Pau) J. Lancaster
Robert A, Cook
Bill Flesher
ill Rebinson
Barney Skelton
Smith

IMSS L
Managing Editor
News Edito:
Sports Editor
Photography Wditor
Entertainment Editor

Circulation (,eorte

Thursday, October 3, 1974

Cheerleaders to lend support

BY TRAVELER

The athletic department bas at
last found a way to boost the
morale of both the football team
and the fans to provide eight
Mary Baldwin girls for our en-
tertainment, That is to say, W&L
will once again have cheerleaders,
starting this weekend with the
homecoming game against Ran-
dolph-Macon of Ashland (not
Lynchburg).

Coach Bill McHenry has felt
the need for W&L to have cheer-
leaders to lead the fans in their
revelries for the last few years.
This year Jack Berry, co-captain
of the team, was able to effect
this step.

Jack enlisted the ald of a friend
at Mary Baldwin, Eleanor “Chad”
Gubbins, to start recruiting girls
for the positions, In as little as
three days she organized the
undertaking with the help of
Baldwin's physical education de-
partment and held auditions.

A grand total of twenty girls
came to the auditions and dis-
played their prowess. Rumor has

it ¢and this paper thrives on
rumors) that a Burmese contor-
tionist flew up from Miami to

compete but was denied a place
on the squad,

ladies

chosen to lead the
tors with their enthusiastic
chants. Uniforms have been
ordered from Dallas and will
hopefully arrive before the game

Might were finally

team to vic-

on Saturday. At this point no
provisions has been made for

pom-poms but the girls may at-
tempt to make their own, Another
alternative would be a= grant

from the Ford Foundation to
further the education of W&L
students in the area of “fun

Student shot
by a friend
for a lark

Last weekend a Pika took a
shot at a SAE and hit his target.
Apparently tribal warfare is rear-
ing its ugiv head on campus.

Billy Craver, a Pika sophomore,
mistook a 62" SAE for a dove,
he says. In Mr. Craver's
hunting party were a Sigma Nu
sophomore J. Lee Keiger and
freshman Burt Bartlett.

The unfortunate SAE, to whom
we may not refer by name, was
shot in the back (those Pikas
wild men). The buek shot
was then removed from his back
by the efforts of the men from
various fraternities in a united
action of which the  Inter-fra-
ternity Council] would be proud.

As a result of the unfortunate
occurance the gentleman from
SAE suffered the loss of a $250
Biack Melton hunting jacket he
had only recently purchased from
Fortnum and Mason of London.

or 80

are

things to do with body language.”
Jen Heslop will lead the cheer-
leaders with help from Cat

Ferres, Deborah Langhorn, Katie
Clore, Sue Grosso, Cissy Barnes,
Tina Larson and Mary Kier. The
girls have been practicing daily

*¥ inane .

A Burmese contortionist was among those who auditioned for a position

for the past week and should be
ready to roll by the 12th of
December.

In the not so distant past W&L
was graced by the presence of
cheerleaders from Southern Semi-
nary. Who can say whether this

latest renewal of the practice
shows that we have taken one
step forward or two steps back-
wards? At any rate, the idea of
having cheerleaders in itself is
pleasant and nostalgic, so let’s
give it a chance.

   

  

at, 8

on W@L’s cheerleading squad last week. Represented here is her triumphant
arrival at Mary Baldwin to show her stuff.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR »

Editor, The Ring-tum Phi:

The new tennis coach at the
University, Mr. Dennis Bussard,
deserves great accolades for his
ingenuity in initiating the first
W&L Tennis Classic. Efficiently
run over this past weekend and
hanwpered only by the inevitable
rain, the Tennis Classic proved
to be a success for both players
and spectators alike. The tourna-
ment not only provided partici-
pants with challenging competi-
tion, but gave them the oppor-
tunity to meet other tennis buffs
whose acquaintances might other-
wise never have been made, The
standard of play made viewing
well worthwhile.

If the winners of the Men's
Singles, Doubles, and Mixed could
gloat over the trophies they re-
ceived in the aftermath of their
victories, then the losers at least
had the satisfving consolation of
having spent a thoroughly en-
jovable weekend.

If this is the manner in which
Mr. Bussard is going to tackle all
of his duties as Washington and
tennis czar, then our uni-
versity appears fortunate indeed
to have him in our employ.

Sincerely,
Tom Sansonetti
Second Year Law

Lee's

 

In order to determine
“social drinking”
well

to check ove)

here,

imagination)? Yes of

‘sweet’ date?

» Is

S. Does drinking cause you

ll. Do vou turn to

after drinking?

you may be an aleoholic.
If you have

you are an alcoholic,

answered

If you have

 

Are you an alcoholic?

whether a
into an abyss of sin and degradation it is
a list of test questions which we provide

1. Do you require a drink the morning after
No

2. Do you drink more with a ‘rank’ date, as opposed to a

4. Do you lose time from booking due to drinking?

i. Do you erave a drink at a definite time daily?

there any time of the day you do not crave a drink?
(i. Do you get inner shakes unless you continue drinking?
7. De you get outer shakes when you continue drinking?
bodily
. Has drinking made you more impulsive?

10. Has your sexual potency suffered since drinking?

an inferior environment since drinking?

12. Is drinking clouding your reputation or debasing your
good name?

id. le drinking disturbing the harmony of your life?

14. Is drinking creating a finer harmony in your life’?

15. Have you ever had a complete loss of memory while, o

effectiveness of

1). Have vou ever been banned

If so, has this happened repeatedly?
17. Has drinking reduced the

if vou have answered YES

anewered YES to any

YES to

three, or more, you are
definately an alcoholic,
\leoholic Anonymous: Roanoke—345-6857
If no answer call—H3-807
pRY UP PAST AND BEAT THE RUSH!

person has fallen from

(use your

complaints?

from a giria’

school campus?

your program?
to any one of these questions,

twe, the chances are that

 

 

 

Cartoon by Apgar, a Ring-tum Phi alumnus

Ask Traveller

TRAVELLER—Where are the women at this place?
(Signed) Hermie
DIEAR HERM—tI take it that as vou read the catalog in applying to

Washington and Lee you mistook such “each year

Washington and Lee enrolls in its freshmen class about 360 men.”

The “men” referred to are male men, and not female men. Under-

stand? This may be tough to break to you, but W&L does not

accept such lowly members of the human race as females, At
least the undergraduate schoo! doesn’t. The law schoo! has been

a bit more farsighted and does admit women, and the higher up

of the law school said the decision in 1971 to admit women was

not influenced in the least by the fact that the school would have
national accreditation had it not allowed (all 12
so of them) to enter,

Apparently you are not the only one fooled by the subtlety of
the Washington and Lee catalog. Mach vear the university has
to send out scores of form postcards to women throughout the
country, telling them that they were amiss (or, in accordanee
with new university policy, ams.) in their beliefs that W&L did
not allow the majority of America to attend its institution,

This is certainly not to that Washington and
about as few females as Lexington has fun places to go, Quite the
contrary, There mentioned above, an ever-inereasing
number of females in the law school, And, of course, there are the
exchange students from other colleges, and, heavens knows, there

DEAR

chrases as

lost females or

say Lee has

are, as

must be at least 20 of them roaming the campus. These two
populations of females already reduce the male-female ratio at
Wé&L to something like 50 to 1. What more could you ask for?

Cheer up. You're lucky this school has any females at all. Why,
the school's forefathers are rolling in their graves now anyway,
although observers are not certain if it's because of the women,
the blacks, or the fact that History of the South is not a required
course.

Actually, the behind Wé&L's all-male atmosphere is
simple. The university receives a large grant each vear from the
major oi! companies, The theory is that with no girls on campus,

reason

anybody who's anybody will be making road trips, thus using
gasoline, It's very simple—both the oi! companies and the uni
versity profit. There's only one loser in the whole deal. The
student.

= @ * #

DEAR TRAVELLER—What's going on for homecoming this weekend?

(Signed) V. Feeblevester, esq

DEAR WHATEVER—Liats. The Student Activities Board has been

working oh so hard in preparation for this weekend of weekends
Among the activities

the first annual W&L, quad-jumping cont Entrants will
wtempt to jump the quad from one side of the freshman dorms
to the other, To add to the effect, W&L work crews right thi
minute are transforming the quad into @ moat with ielp from
the Army Corps of Engineers, which thinks that it is still work
ing on the cross-Florida cana Alligato and other gatorers will
be imported and placed in the moat, Winner, if any, gets the

Evel Knievel 1Q similarity award, Second prize is membership in
Hiue Cross and Blue Shield

Speaking of imports, W&L wil! also bring in cheerleade:
which is almost @s vague an idea as bringing in alligators Eight
pompotis pom-pommers will be brought down for the homecoming

game and will be offered in sacrifice at

of Required Physical Education course

halftime

who, by

great God
tradition, lurk
mnewhere hetween Coach Lord's office and the equipment room
in addition to Wé&L’ weekly
aon Field during the

to tie

in Doremus, This will be

holocaust on WI

sacrificial
Mane

Don't forget the grain party. For your entertainment, the re
mains of the eight cheerleaders will be strewn about the Pavilion
in ceremonial fashion while a representative of each fraternits
he Independent Union, and the College Inn wi

participate in
the annua! streak for charity, proceeds of which wo to the “Help
Define Al Black" fund.

SENIORS

lf you have not signed up tor your Calyx informal picture,
come by the Calyx office Croom 200) in the Universit, Center
between 4:00 and 6:00 on Tuesday and Thur day, October
3-Oetober 17,
 

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3

 

Generals Drop Tenth Straight As
Centre Rallies For 25-21 Win

by BILL FLESHER
Phi Sports. Editor

Lee's
where

and
Saturday

Washington

Country” they

football
found

Generals
some

wert
lousy

to “Bluegrass
weather and a

fired up football team out to end a long losing streak.
Centre College ended a thirteen game victory drought as they

rallied to hand W&L their

the past two seasons 25-21

third
, in a game marred by showers which may

straight defeat, and tenth over

Kickers Top Mennonite, 3-1;
Runners Open Season Saturday

By SANDY BISHOP
Phi Sports Staff

Strong defensive iplay  spear-
headed by fullback Barelay Arm-
strong and a_ productive game
from Washington Lee's’ front
line sparked the Generals to a
3-1 soccer victory over Eastern
Vennonite Saturday.

W&L never trailed in raising
their record to 1-0-1, as they took
a 1-0 lead early in the first half
on a penalty kick by Jim Fox.
The defense, led by Armstrong
and Gardner Britt, made the lead
stand up until early in the sec-
ond half, when Billy Cogar con-
verted a Chuck Alexander pass
into the second W&L goal.

Juan Yoder gave Eastern Men-
nonite its only goal with eight
minutes left to cut the W&L lead
to 2-1, But the Generals’ Jembe
Mwakalu scored late in the game
off a John Embree pass to clinch
the win.

Ran-

The Generals travel to

dolph-Maeon Friday.

The W&L Jayvees improved
their mark to 1-0-1 with a 7-1
ronyp over Dabney Lancaster C.C.
Saturday. Seott Baugher scored
while five players added
single tallies. The JV’s square
off against VMI on Saturday.

twice

* JOHN JACOB
Phi Sports Staff

Washington and Lee's 1974
cross country season gets under-
way Saturday when the harriers
host Roanoke, Christopher New
port, and Old Dominion in a
quadrangular meet over the new
country course. The meet
will begin at 11:30 a.m.

Cross

Head coach Dick Miller, while
not making any predictions about
the season, did say that he is
looking forward to the coming
year. Miller said that with eight
lettermen returning, including co-
captains Tem Washington and
Jim McMenamin, the possibili-
ties for a fine season are good,

itself has been
changed, with several sections
being eliminated in favor of
longer, more difficult stretches.
One runner said that it takes sev-
eral trial runs on the course be-
fore you can get used to all the
different terrains encountered,
including mud, steep hills, rocky
roads, and flat trails.

The course

Miller said that defending
VCAA champ Bridgewater, Madi-
son and Eastern Mennonite
should the most formidable
opponents as the Generals try to
better last year’s 6-4 mark.

be

have dampened more than
first half.

W&L looked lifeless in the opening thirty minutes, picking up only
one first down and 52 total offensive yards in the first two quarters,
while allowing their former College Athletic Conference foes 19 points
and over 200 total yards.

“We weren't ready to play when the game began,”
head coach Bill McHenry afterward. “We
until after halftime.”

Maybe it was something that was said in the locker room during
intermission that caused the excitement as the Generals converted
their first three offensive possessions of the second half into 21 points,
enabling them to grab a 21-19 lead.

just the Generals’ passing game in the

lamented W&L
didn't really get excited

That lead was shortlived, however, as the Colonels drove 61 yards
in 11 plays on the following series, with freshman halfback Mark
Davis scoring from five yards out to wrap the victory up for the
homestanding Colonels,

“We were enthused by our play in
wid. “We think what we showed in the
our team really looks like.”

the second half,” McHenry
final thirty minutes is what

But it was what happened in the
did W&L in. After taking
bursts by running backs Mercer West and Rob Lindsey gave
erals a first down at the Centre 46, It was the only time W&L’s
offense saw the chains move in their favor until the second half.

The first quarter saw defense dominate until Centre started a
drive late in the period, The 78-yard march was capped at 11:34 in the
second quarter when halfback Greg Young scampered 28 yards off
jeft tackle for the opening touchdown. Jim Akin’s kick made it 7-0.

After W&L punted on the following series, the Colonels again
threatened, moving down to the W&L 5. But a fourth down attempt
was thwarted when freshman cornerback Charlie Brown came across
the field to break up a Roy Beard pass.

But again W&L failed to move the ball and was forced to punt.
This time the Colonels moved in, with Beard rolling around right
end for the final nine yards. Freshman Jeff Slatcoff blocked Akin's
PAT attempt, and it was 13-0 with 1:49 left in the half.

opening thirty minutes that
the opening kickoff, consecutive seven-yard
the Gen-

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No, 2078 —8 a.m-10 p.m,
We Sell Kegs
Open 7 days a week
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER

Mother's
Pizza Shop

OPEN 11 A.M.-12) P.M,

ABC On & Off 007595

Home of the
Big “J” Burger

 

 

 

 

Weekly Football Contest

Oe

Sfoete ole fe efe eho efoefe ot ate

Monday thru Friday

Saturday 8 .m, to 2 p.m.

McCrum’s Drug Store
“Choose Your Druggist As You Would Your Doctor”
CALL 463-2323

Store Hours

Missouri at Wisconsin

S a.m, to © pam,

Sunday 8 a.m. to | p.m.

 

Suits by Kingsridge

Vil

SHOP BRAND NAMES

to be sure

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons. Inc.

OPPOSITE R. E, LEE MOTEL

vs. VME (at Richmond)

Shirts by Manhattan

 

 

Main Office:
15 South Main
Street

United Virginia Bank

More Than A Bank...
Student Accounts Welcomed

Lexington, Virginia

Oklahoma State

Branch Othee:
708 South Main
Sireect

‘Tech

at Texas

 

LS\

ESSE PSS SESS SS SS SESE SPSS SSS TE TESTES ES PP SSS SSS SSS SSS SPSS SSS SPSS SSFP SS PSSST SST TSS T TCT ST

Ring-tum Phi
Support Our

Advertisers

at

Florida

Lee E ELLE EEE EL EEE EEEEEEEEE SEEDER ERE LEE EE ELE EEE EE EGET EEE OE EEE DEERE EEE EEE EE EEE LEE E EEE OEE GED GEG GEE OBE E EEE EE EE EEEEE EEE EEE EEE EEE OEE EE

Two plays later
Berry pass to s
the half,

defensive tackle Phil Benkert picked off a Jack
vet up the Colonels’ third touchdown, With :25 left in
Beard who hit on 9 of 14 for 105 yards, found Rick Straub

with a three-yard scoring strike. A two-point attempt failed, and
Centre led at intermission, 19-0.
Then the Generals stormed back, Slatcoff recovered a Straub

first touchdown,
Ralph

fumble at the Centre 33 to set W&L up for their
an eight-yard pass from Berry to freshman Eamon Cassell.
Moore's kick cut the Colonels’ lead to 19-7,

Just three plays later Beard, after a sizeable gain, fumbled, and
W&L's Louis McFadden fell on the ball at the Centre 31, After a
big fourth down completion from Berry to Tony Perry kept the
threat alive, W&L cut their deficit to 19-14 on Berry’s six-yard toss
to Mark George, followed by Moore's kick.

The defense

Generals’ stiffened on the following series, forcing

the Colonels to punt, An eleven play, 60-yard drive ensued, ending
with 13:28 left in the game on Lindsey’s two yard scoring burst,
Moore's kick gave W&L their first, and only lead, at 21-19. Then

Centre began their rally. After a short kickoff gave them good field
position the Colonels, behind the running of Davis and Beard’s pass-

ing, steadily marched toward the end zone, Davis then went in from
the five, regaining the lead for the Colonels, 25-21.

Wé&L got one final opportuinty late in the game after Steve Van
Amburgh recovered a Colonel fumble at the Centre 49. However, on
first and 10 from the Centre 25, a Berry pass intended for Perry
picked off by Mike Kimbrell. From there, Centre ran out the clock
to preserve their first win since 1972 and to continue the Generals’
losing string another week,

FF eer rrr

Fights Inflation
All You Can Eat

Wednesday $2.25

$3.25

Italian Spagetti
Buffet

Includes Endless Salad Bar

dan Swi

~ 463-7351 ee

Sunday

cl lt tlt ltt lll lt tl lt tll ll nl

 

 

ESTEE RENIN T ITTY

 

Win Cash Prizes

Vick the winners in each ad on this page. The person getting the most
correct wins first prize; next best, second prize, ete, In case of a tie
the closest guess at the actual score of the tie breakers listed below
will win, The contest is open to anyone except members of the
MING-TUM PHI. Entries must be postmarked before Noon on Satur-
day (Box 899) or brought to the KING-TUM PHI office in the Print
Shop by Noon Saturday, Only one entry per person,

First Prize $5.00 Second Prize $3.00
Third Prize $1.00

 

 

Official Entry Blank

Advertisers Winners

United Va. Bank (Rock.)
Alvin-Dennis

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons
College Town Shop
McCrum’s Drug Store

First National Exchange Bank
Ring-tum Phi

Country Kitchen

Washington and Lee Randolph-Macon

VPI VMI

Narn

\ddre

bbbbobeehe4EEEEOEEEEEESEESIE SES EEEEEEESESEEEERESEE EEE EEE ESTEE EOF E EEE E EEE TEE E EEE TEE TEED TUTE TET E ETON TOT ITT E GEIL ET ETE E TE ETE E EEE E LTTE OLED ELD bb ith

AAAAAMAAAAABAARABAKRARAAAAMABABAMAARAARAAAAAAARMAAMRD ED

Sponsored by the

Business Firms on this page

Slacks by
Austin Hill

Borenstein—PBM

Corbi Suits
orbin
Sero—Creighto
Iaod College Town here re —
Shirts &
sweaters Shop Clarks—Footjoy
Shoes

 

Alan Paine
Sweaters

“Run by W@L men for W@L men”

Randolph-Macon at Washington and Lee

 

 

First National Exchange Bank

is ready to meet your student needs with
24 hr. banking
NELSON STREET OFFICE

Virginia at Georgia Tech

 

Wallabees
Topsiders

Izod-Lacoste
Flannel Shirts

Aluin-Dennis

\labama at Mississippi

 

Baked with the Homemade Touch
COUNTRY KITCHEN
BREAD, CAKES, PASTRIES

Open Daily 7-5

The Place for a quick, light breakfast
463-5691 8 N. Main

Notre Dame at Michivan

state

LLLELEESELEE SELLE SELLS L SLES ELSES ESE SELES EEE PEELE TELE LS TEL ES PEPE TEL EE ESSE TES ESSE SET ELE SEE LESSEE EEE

 

+
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

High VD rate reported
college students not to blame

By the Phi News Staff

Lexington is suffering from a

plague,

I'he rate of veneral disease in

the city is almost double the rate ing the vear’s ac ‘ies. e Seneca eee
gh cal — ‘ity in the Suggested the gentlemen of Wash- !"8 ° at youre a ae Accessories $ h enan d oa h
of any coumy OF OY ington and Lee and the Keydets After one week, four teams, M & M Duck’
Sixth Planning District, accord- ee wa s Lambda Chi Alpha, Sigma Alphz OLD MAIN STREET r. rs. uCK'S
= of VMI as possible explanations /#™bda Chi Alpha, Sigma Alpha ; .
ing to an article in last week’s ‘te ands nl psilon, Phi Kappa Sigma, and 20 N, Main St. Lexington | |
: of the high rate of VD. : . e a eri | L
News-Gazette. Phi Kappa Psi, are undefeated . % entra unc
~~ NOTICES and looking toward the playoffs Formerly Shenandoah Crafts
Malcolm Tenny Jr, area health . ' beginning Oct. 7. Phi Psi’s Jim — Good Food
director, veported the incident \pplications for the Dee. 7 Houston was named Player of 25 N. Main St.
e of V.D. in Lexington was 2.5 jroreign Service Examination the Week for his winning efforts UNIVERSITY centamten, Va Cold Kegs
per 1000 population in the last just be completed by Oct, 31. against Phi Gamma Delta and SUPPLY STORE sis ‘ '
x months of 1973, — Information on the examination Phi Delta Theta. : A t & C ft The Warmest
A drop in the rate w Ato per is available from Dr. Milton Col- IM football sees Delta Tau Announces a 20% Reduction rts rafts
1000 was reported in the first yin, professor of politics. Delta, Law Il, SAE, and Phi Psi on Photo Finishing Hospitality
ix months of 1974. in the ranks of the undefeated ea
Iiven with this decrease Lex- a after the opening week. SAE’s wenres
ington’s incident rate remained \pplications for graduate study Jack Dudley was named Player
higher than any locality in the” gonts for study aboard under of the Week after his permorm-
district, which includes Buena 4), decibel . ances against PKD and Sigma Nu.
: ’ : the Mutual Educational Exchange © : L k B k Sh
Vista, Harrisonburg, Waynes: program (Fullbright-Hays) are NOTICE Wendell’s ee- jaCKSON OO 0
bore, Staunton and the counties okhs in at eee” Mice a ae :
available from Dr, C. W. Turner. ; * president, vice-
Rockbridge, Augusta, Rocking: Applications for president, vice : : = .
of Rockbridge, AUgUS a, NOCking The grants include round4rip president and treasurer of the 29 N. Main MRS. ALICE DAVIDSON

un, Bath and Highland.

able to rule out several factors
as contributors to the plague.
\mong the vindicated possibli-
ties was the presence of the
numerous students in Lexington.
The paper did not report who

transportation, tuition and main-

Football, tennis
golf competitions
open Intramurals

The 1974 Intramural season is
well underway, with competition
in football, tennis, and golf open-

Stormcrow
Leather

Formerly at
Shenandoah Crafts

Handmade Leather

 

 

 

Thursday, October 3, 1974

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
Your Keepsake Jeweler
35. S. MAIN
463-4121

 

 

 

   
  

Travel Unlimited
PREE RESEL VATIONS
All Tickets—No [3xtia Cost

Let us save you time, money

& long distance calls.
21 W. Washington
Lexington, Va.

 

163-7174

 

 

 

 

 

 

inn inet at

Barber Shop

a '» Independent Union are due in the & ; :

renny was “unable to account al : Has For Sale Reprints of
ts ' y ce dik Ga a for one academic year.  gtudent government box in the i P

or the unusually high Fate, @ Application deadline for the — student center Oct. 18. ee

cording to the article, but was oe

chants, whic hare available to 52
is Oct. 31. ee
* + *

Open 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

LEXINGTON
in Old Virginia

by HENRY BOLEY

COU les,
R/C Theatres

STATE

NOW THRU THUR,
Clint Kastwood
in

“Thunderbolt
and Lightfoot”

Ireshmen rush preference

cards must be turned in Monday.

 

 

    

 

“THE COMMUNITY THEATRE” x
BEECH AVENUE
BUEANA VISTA, VA.

201-2900

+e
a
x

eteeteode deed teeb dete dete ede
:

SCHEWEL’
FURNITUR

%
Complete Dormitory

 

   
     

i
1
LJ

Phone

  
    
 
   

mms
Sees

—————

Friday-Saturday, Oct. 4-5
Late Show 11:30 p.m,

it of

THE
Ue eas

EASTMAN COLOR

STARTS FRILL
“Death Wish”

with CHARLES BRONSON

LYRIC

“Our Time” — = 8

Our house specials are our Fuji, Batavus, & Falcon Bikes.
Feast your eyes on our tempting assortment of accessories.

We can satisfy all of your repair needs with our expert
repair work and large parts’ inventory.

St. : Open 9:30-5:00 Mon.-Sat.

Bicycle
Shop

FOR THE BICYCLE
CONNOISSEUR
(and all other

bike owners) |

Needs.
146 S. Main
463-2175

onde ode ole ode ebe ede ode ole ode ode tee tebe ote ode fe ate ote feats

Uvaeet ier

 
 

 
  
 

PEPE EEE EEE EPP STE

‘Lexington
|

~~

   
 
   
  

 

WEP. SAP.
ADULTS

~

Hamric and
Sheridan

Jewelers

Martin
Stevenson

with Pamala Sue

and Parker

” 3
Py
, ®

SUN.MON.TUES

“Johnny Tough”

|
|
Wateh and Jewelry Repair

Hand bngraving & Class Rings DION GOSSETT

|
CHRISTOPHER TOWNS |

163-2022

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: —— ~\ t ee
The Alexander-Withrow House | PRES BROWN’S |
3 WEST WASHINGTON STRERT S T U D E N T S | |
\ restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites. | Home of quality |
\ different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love : |
ne tLiihk Student may make reserva ions or wir yarents ale M , / o I t 3
our the hotse a n 10-2 nanea thar Sa a es = - ex joes anu = aad STEREOS |
Morrist ‘Themes GOOD FOOD AND SERVICE | |
J ‘4 4 =) . .
| Lexington’s Panasonic |
! |
Headquarters |
: . We have meal tickets at savings t q
The First National Bank and Branch ¢ Save ane Gon & one 7 ii dite ee eee |
sash ; and ©&- USE
of Lexington }

Hours from 93 Monday-Thursday 9 Friday SOUTHERN INN Columbia TDK Scotch BASF |
lias Special Checking Accounts for Students 115 W. Nelson St 163 |

| ‘ » avCiso ete . 0. 5UR?
\ me! Rb SS 4

 

EEEELEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE SES EEEEEEEESET GEESE EET T OS
FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole
;

Lloyd R. Bowling

Exxon Service

Did You Know That

OZ

Sells Waterbeds?

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

FSSTTSSISSSE

LEPEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE EEE SEES TEST GTEC TEES

Prompt Service Calls

Washington and dee Uniwersity
Lubrication

Muffler and Brake Service

Tune.t]
Wnunkstore Tune-Up

| Mattress $25.00
Specializing in Carburetor and Liner 6.00
Ignition Repair Foam Pad 9.00
BE PREPARED
$40.00

How To Score High On:

Student check and charge accounts welcome,

‘Deal’ Price $37.50"

463-3221
463-6203

7 a.m,-8 p.m,

Law, Business and
Medical Admission Tests
Books Available

; Single, Double, . .
Every Day Bie, Queen, or King

*Inculdes Warranty
Conviently located at N. Main & Jefferson

directly across from campus 1} North Main 1:00-5:00 Daily

 

~~ mssss -cesmmmsssess *~ammmmmmmsmsss:~cemmmmmmmmmmmeees mma mca mm mm CC ce eet

 
