 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIV LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 10, 1974 acer

 

 

   

hoe The weekend in review
va, Llomecoming was mixture
oi tootbaii, parties, dates

 

By STEVE YEVICH vived, tions were roaring successes.
Taking to the highways in mas- rhe Montereys, provided good Men from all points on the stu-

sive numbers, W&L gentlemen 5lid music in a variety of styles. dent body spectrum could be
imported and entertained an im Che crowd, including a contingent seen enjoying themselves at any
pressive number of women this of alumni, seemed to enjoy the house providing live music.

past Saturday, making Homecom- eruup and the grain. Gatoring was reported in sev-
ing ‘74 the most socially active , Saturday night a number of eral instances, but the atrocity
weekend so far this fail fraternities held open combo list for the weekend was_ gsur-

A large crowd of students, parties, which from all indica- prising short.
dates, faculty and alumni apathe-
tically looked on as the Generals
struggled to a 20-20 tie with C » Za .
Randolph-Macon Men's College. OnNCeYr VCur Opens
The coronation of the Home-
coming queen and her court high- e ‘
lighted the half time ceremonies.
, , : Chemistry professor Dr. J, Keith tonight WI th tenor
i y Fe — 4 eS - Shillington presented the tradi-

tional victory kiss to this year's By JOHN KINGSTON burton, a music professor at the
The Homecoming crowd picks up duties one of the games brighter moments «ucen, Miss Julie Jordon of — phi ‘Staff Reporter University of North Carolina at

—photo by G. Dulken Randolph-Macon Women's  Col- Chapel Hill, who also has per-
lege, escorted by Paul Cromelin = : tormed as a s te
3 ; Washington and Lee Concert formed Gs 8 aneee.

f Delta Te elta Fraternity. The concert ia free ‘ ’
of Delta Tau Delta Fraternity Guild 1974-75 season tonight in he concert is free to all W&L

Members of the court were Miss an Cie a de students and their dates.
eac O S turn Own Chad Gubbins of Mary Baldwin pin = = Wing is presently a_ voice
9 College, escorted by Dave Hecken- rhe guild has been an intergral teacher at the University of North
bach of Phi Gamma Delta, and part of W&L life since its in-

, al = : Carolina at Chapel Hill, while
Miss Jenny Anderson of Mary ception 25 years ago. The guild j,aintaining a full schedule of

° — =
SAB looking for another ‘Diggie ivr sates: cor 'oy i (reated bv a, student voant eal
Mark Reifslager of Phi Kappa @"d_ Professor Robert Stewart,

Tenor Stafford Wing opens the

s = : \lpha. head of the Music Department, The guild will present five
Ever since the first phone call “However,” he said, “they were usually worked on by John The Marching Blu f Parry Wing’ toire i 1 other concerts this year. “We
. ‘ ’ : ie are g es arry o's reper ‘e is © swe > rly ‘ year.
was made June 1, the Student all filled up so the last date we Embree, the SAB’s entertainment : se - el, — ee

MeCluer High School in Buena of classie art songs. An art song, Usually present just chamber
Vista provided music for the half unlike a folk song, is a care- Music artists, as there is no place

“We are starting over again,’ time program, but effectively pre- fully constructed piece. A folk for large symphonies,” Stewart
concluded Killpack, “and we vented much of the audience from song is largely spontaneous. His said about the coming artists.
haven't given up trying for a big hearing either the master of cere- selections will vary in this field, “We attempt to present young

Activities Board has been work- were working on was Nov. 13. co-chairman.
ing diligently to get the Beach They tentatively accepted our
Boys to perform at W&L this date but they wanted to wait to
fall. However, the small size of see if they could get something
W&L and the lack of sufficient bigger, and they did.”

funds, as well as date conflicts, Instead of performing here on name group for November. The monies or Dr. Sniingien. from the Romantic works of the ortists to help establish their

has foreed the plan to collapse. Nov. 13, the Beach Boys will be sad thing about this Beach Boys rae — pary - Red Square Russian composer Rachmaninoff —— ms added. ata rt

“Initially,” stated SAB Chair- performing in Washington, DL, episode is the rumors that cir- immediately following the game to the Comer ary art style of Forma wer suet _ . id

man john Killpack, “we wanted where they will get more money culated. | guess we should have was like most any other—there British Benjamin Britten. nave gone a ie —— _—

to go all out and have one big than they would have received kept things secret until we knew appeared to be only one notable His accompanist for the ap- have been presented, as have
: , for sure.” casualty, and she was soon re- pearance will be Thomas War- residents of Lexington.

concert at W&L this year. The here,

idea of getting the Beach Boys “This concert,” Killpack said,
to perform here popped up and “would probably have cost us
we put in a bid for them on close to $17,000. Nonetheless, as
July 15. However, date conflicts part of the SAB philosophy, we

and the problem of money eventue only planned on taking in abou
ally forced the prospect to fold.” $8,000 at the gate.”
\t first, Killpack explained, Aceording to Killpack, the

the SAB altempted to get the many attempts to get the group
Beach Boys here for homecoming here involved weekly phone call
or a weekend in November. and lengthy contract negotiation

EC committees report gripes s ideas;
campus poster regulations eaued

By the Phi News Staff meoway and Student Center bul-

ont ‘ wit lwo "
The Recruitment and Cold au urd

Check Committees gave their re
ports on policy and internal con
ditions at Monday's Executive
Committee meeting.

David Braun, chairman of the
Recruitment Committee, complain
ed of the C's rational in denying
the committee funds this vear

Jay du Rivage, chairman of

\i posters in Student Cente
and Dining Hall shall be restrict
ed to bulletin boards

Campaign Regulation

No tore than o0 itens by anys
one candidate may be posted a!
any one time,

During elections, additiona
: bulletin boards shall be erected
the Cold Cheek committee, gave by Department of Buildings and
the EC a list of ideas to en Grounds.
chance the effectiveness of his All above regulations appl)

committee, during campaigns as well,

 

Du Rivage said he hopes to

furnish information om good . ae WAL’s frane _
banking practices to the student: Fraternities net

along with a statement of the Imported from Mary Baldwin, WA&L's seven new cheerleaders sap- support are: Mary Kier, Peborah Langhorn, Sue Grosse, Jennifer
commitee’s policies and purpose 65 per cent plied much of the support fer the Generals that was heard at Heslop, Tina Larson, Katie Clore and Cat Farris,
In another matter, the EC an- Saturday's game. From left te right, the first line of the Blues’

nounced that petitions for fresh

man positions in student govern of freshmen class —

ment are due Monday, The elect

. .
ions will be held Oet. 21 and run The 1974 Fraternity Rush end | ( t n C 3t1 ate
offs are scheduled for Oct, 25 ed Friday night with ee O l V Ss c he S llabus
EC Poster Regulations mately 65 per cent of the fresh | Vy
General Regulations man class pledging fraternitie

’ © .
: : the IFC reported Monday ‘ ‘ é Thursday
in? ‘ s oO ‘| as TT ~ Ie g
oe “ ae 7 OY ade infla 10n, : Concert—Stafford Wing, tenor, Lee Chapel, 8 pan

dated in lower left corner as to Nearly ‘2 per cent of the fresh Friday

vhen they may be taken down man class went through Rush “— onl deckh* autees &
Any undated poster may be re this year. and 70 freshmen i — “ 2 > Setunien
noved immediately, Le. subscrip = : on = S 3 e
ove | nain on the deferred Rush list i. 5 < < a Cro Countrs Wal, compete in tour tein «natch, Vii
tion offers. . inia Bea 1:00 pan
* : - wees . ® : ai wee | i 1
Sponsoring organization must The IFC also said some peopi By BOB PUGH xchange of hleas - Movie Woodstock.” duPont. $1
. . % . have turned n preference '
be identified on each poster . : : .@ . . ad Kimbroug Football—Generals \ Hampden-Sydney, Lynehburg, & pwn
No poster may be left for cards. Preference cards may ix Phi Staff Reporter Profe Emory Kimbrough Sunday
' ‘ ' : vesawting 1) ‘one ) ' “
’ 1} turned in by going to room 205 epreseming the Courses and De :
nuter than two week ; - : ' ty Py lent Robert | : = et WéelL v Madison, here, 2 p.m
No more than one poster foi in the Student Center, f lling ou Lt nive wy Unit } t ‘ rret Committee, reporter nh " W etoci tub '
' , A‘ ; ' ‘ I ali ‘ i Ss
vent may | ted in the card that will be in a box R. Huntley and Student Bod » discussed the trend toward — ee "Mo
any ofFre event hi Me hemi ll . .
. outside the room and ipping it Presidemt Ben Bailey were electe: hey grad iH sid a subeom londay
any one location were : + tee 4 seit . ‘ . ( Count Wal. v VMI and Davidson, here, 4:50 pun
n front campus build under the door eochairmen of i nivers|! nittee has been formed to stud)
imift 2 tntt tal = i A . _ ‘ ' ; t ; , ‘ f ; =
. ! Counel! at the counci firet mee sfla n and the hono rogra Be Lecture—Walton Butterworth, former am
ire are to be restricted to bu . 1a On — : = ; iwxador to Canada, duPont, 7:30 p.m
\ieo at Une ‘ ree Tue i Mhureday |
etin board day, the Rush Evaluation Com During a Student Health Com Nuesday
No more than 60 posters fot nittee was formed, consisting of rhe § composed of 13 ot if m report to the UC Mi Pwo Chap one Keaton flicks, Reid Hall 205, 7:00
iy one event may be displayed epresentatives from Beta Theta here l= facut Peer iin shomoré uc representative ,
any one Ume Pi, Phi Deita Theta, Pi Kappa leans ard President Huntley ‘ i Thompson said there | { ‘ \ Choru VMI, S15 pam, $3
No posters may be displayed on \ipha, Psi Upstion, Sigma Alpha we iveas of atudent affal eat reluctance among student Wednesday
iy white surface—doors, door Mpaiion and Sigma Nu vee & in advisory group re to use the infirmar’y | i View Peace Corp/ Vista, Coop, 0 aimed pam
mire columns, and other white enlative : tm iniversity Pace } view—Price Waterhouse, Washington Hall 7
iveas as stuceo on front of Dorm The commiltes panning to ¢ ecelve umd orig ion of the hea p ) i}
I (istrubute questionnaires to ai) rate eo endations to the ad on the agenda of the next Uf Soces Wel va. Washingtor ere, o p
laet and Found and “Fo the freshmen that went throug nistratlio faculty, and studen i Phurecda tk i. a Pia Biayp { \ a, | Want Get Of Doremtia Gy
ile nininecemen are to lk Hush and a representative samp) Ferve ern il =—Ssoaet in in ov pn } é ile Cen Pout!
| eal » Payne tlall, Dorm I ny ont Trabernity member ‘ i i i forum te Live ba
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

Be

 

      

More to be paid
than censured

This year the student Executive Committee has already
started working long hours to insure that things rum as
smoothly as possible. If it is indisposed to the idea of giving
a party that will make everybody want to run for office, then
the least it can do is see to it that its members are in some
way recognized for their efforts. The student body as a whole
is usually rather unappreciative of the blessings bestowed
upon them by those who try to make Washington and Lee
a better place for us at which to relax.

Our student government is unique in comparison with the
student government associations at other schools, For better
or for worse, it is a very powerful group. Whereas many
institutions entertain (or suffer under) a form under which
a legislative body decides much of the policy and an executive
administers it, here the EC allocates funds, makes laws and
sees to it that they are enforced.

At W&L we have one ruling body in student government
which does everything necessary, and unnecessary, and the
University Council usually stands by watching it get things
done, Sometimes the EC does too much or is guilty of doing
the wrong thing, but at least it tries to do something.

We do not mean to imply that the EC is riding a mammoth
white horse and wearing a suit of Gorham sterling armour
as the champion of vital causes, In fact, we would all perhaps
be better off it it did less.

We only wish to acknowledge here their hard work and
the hours of pure drudgery they serve so that we are left
with as little as possible to think about that is of a serious
nature. Unfortunately they are not repaid for their efforts
in any significant way.

At other institutions in this area, those who put in fewer
hours than students leaders here are reimbursed for their
time and labor. For example, at Madison College the presi-
dent of the government association is granted a twenty-hour
work scholarship each month which amounts to about $32.
(ther officers there are also paid in like manner but on a
stialler seale, ic. ten-hour monthly work scholarships.

Hampden-Sydney is in many ways comparable to W&L
but there too the president of the student body receives a
salary. The president is given $520 a year; the secretary,
$175; and the judicial “person,” $250. At Roanoke College
the president of the student government makes $000 for his
year in office. The salaries at Lynchburg College make all
those mentioned look small: president-—$800; vice-president—
$000, secretary—$500, judicial person—$150.

At the various institutions mentioned thus far those who
spend a large part of their time working for the school are
recognized in some way and fairly handsomely in many cases.
We have already suggested that the EC repay its own efforts
by grossly indulging itself at the end of the year. However,
it appears that many elected officials are shy about such
highhanded and enjoyable fringe benefits as parties given for
themselves. This is regrettable, to say the least.

If the members of the EC feel that this form of reimburs-
ment in inappropriate then they should at the very least con-
sider paying themselves for a job overdone or underdone, as
the case may be. W&L can easily afford to pay them—after
all, they control a considerably larger budget than almost any
school here mentioned, It is about time for the students at
Washington and Lee to show them that we are willing to
give credit where credit is unquestionably due,

A new Wé&L?

After homecoming weekend no one could possibly accuse
W&k of being a conservative place. The acceptance by the
student body and campus authorities of Charlene Flowers
gives us the impression that this school is not so far removed
irom the more renowned centers of sin and degradation,

Last Friday afternoon various fraternities and student
groups presented their candidates for homecoming queen
before a panel of judges in duPont Auditorium, Among the
contestants was someone from the Beta house, one Charlene
Flowers, As it became readily apparent, she was a he.

The judges (Betty Munger, Lad Sessions, Bob NWeele and
|. D. Futeh) were practically rolling on the floor in gales of
laughter, At one point a judge asked him/her if he would
accept the possibility of being kissed by Dr, Shillington,
With a maidenly blush Charlene replied, “Il take my perver-
sion any way | can get it.”

but the worst was yet to come, Charlene and his Beta
date made a grand entrance imto the cocktail party at the
\lumni House. As if that was not brazen enough Charlene
added to the excitment of the party by approaching Presi-
dent Huntley and kissing him while alumni and faculty

=a) ,L.R.

watched,

In 1874 it could not have happened. Fifty years ago such
a person would have been dismissed, As little as ten years
ago it would have at least blown some people out, Last week-
end it caused about a ten second stir on campus and was
promptly ignored, It seems that W&L now bears a resembl-
ance to the debauched Germany of the early thirties: the
more perverse the occurance, the less unexpected it is.

onl LR.

Kd, note: The following article
was submitted by two students
who express their sentiments
to the entire community of
Washington and Lee—students,
faculty and staff. We run their
statement because we believe it
to be a_ reasonable, coherent
and valid point of view which
should be of concern to the
school,

By CLAY JACKSON
and DAVID PITTMAN

The purpose of this article is
to express personal thoughts and
feelings regarding the use of
Lee Chapel. The University com-
munity should be aware of Robert
Ki. Lee's intention when he estab-
lished a chapel at Washington
and Lee. However, in order to
fully appreciate Lee Chapel one
must be acquainted with the
man.

Kach member of the Washing-
ton and Lee community is surely
cognizant of General Lee’s con-
tribution to the school. His liberal
ideas concerning the expansion
of the curriculum, and his un-
limited and unselfish devotion of
time, effort and money are still
known today. From his ideas con-
cerning academies and the “ren-
aissance man” our present liberal
arts education evolved.

Lee firmly believed in the de-
velopment of all phases of the
individual—mental, physical and
spiritual. General Lee's emphasis
on a more flexible curriculum
served as a foundation to stimu-
late the students’ mental faculties.
Likewise, Lee Chapel was estab-
lished to meet the spiritual needs
of both the individual and the
community. The importance of
the Chapel to General Lee is re-
flected not only in its physical
location on campus but also by
its simplistic beauty.

Once the Chapel was completed
worship services were conducted
daily. The unheralded fact that

General Lee never missed a ser-
vice is historical testimony to his
faithfulness and deep-rooted be-
liefs,

What has the University done
for the memory of so great a
man? Services have been discon-
tinued totally, and the Chapel
has been converted into a mu-
seum and family mausoleum, The
present employment of Lee
Chapel as merely an auditorium
appears to us an insult to Gen-
eral Lee who, as President of
Washington College, expected the
Chapel to be used for worship
services, not as a personal me-
morial.

Thursday, October 10, 1974

On the use of Lee Chapel

R. E. Lee Episcopal Church is,
of course, easily accessible,
but R. E. Lee Church is not Lee
Chapel. What kind of respect is
demonstrated to General Lee
when one of his most valued
achievements is either ignored or
misused after his death?

October 2, 1974, was the 109th
anniversary of Robert E. Lee’s
inauguration as President of
what is now Washington and Lee
University. No bells were sound-
ed; no notice was given to com-
memorate the simple ceremony
conducted in Payne Hall in 1865.
The name which the University
now bears memorializes two of

the finest and most prominent
men in American history. Is the
Washington and Lee community
unaware of the heritage and his-
tory behind the University or has
that history just been forgotten?

We suggest that a weekly ser-
vice conducted by the chaplain of
the University be instituted and
held each Sunday. Ideally the
service should remain non-de-
nominational as General Lee pro-
posed. This would provide the stu-
dents, faculty and administration
a convenient place to worship,
and, of equal importance, due re-
spect would be paid to General
Lee and his wishes.

Arthur Silver: a living legend

By BRECK INGLES

Lexington is a town blessed
with more than its share of eld-
erly people, people who add much
color, personality, and a sense
of timelessness to a place with
a large transitory population. One
such person is Arthur Silver, a
man who settled down from the
exciting life of Vaudeville to the
quiet life of Lexington.

The name “Arthur Silver” has
greatly varied connotations to
different people, for Arthur is a
man of many talents. For those
who have his Vaudeville side, he
is known for his amazing vocal
talents, which have earned him
the nick-name of “the voice,” and
he is known for his knee-slapping
jokes, For those who merely come
off the street to get a bargain of
a deal at the “sale” sign, Arthur
offers the latest—and by this I
mean about twenty years late—
styles,

If age is to be equated with
wisdom, Arthur at the age of
eighty-five should be able to im-
part much good advice to the
willing listener. He says that the
day of the small businessman is
gone, that people are too hurried

Student, Mel share cell-
exchange views on life

By TRAVELER

W&L students have always been
ingenious in finding interesting
ways to spend weekends. No ex-
ception is a student known to
many as Tube King who spent
homecoming with Mel Greenberg
in the Rockbridge County jail.

The King was arrested Satur-
day night by the police for being
dvunk and disorderly in public—
in other words, it was just
another Saturday night like so
many others, At the time of his
capture the King was accompani-
ed by his date and an alumnus
who is now a magistrate in North
Carolina, The magistrate-alumnus
came to King’s defense and suc-
cessfully provoked the policeman
into taking King back to the
tank.

In the spacious quarters of the
Rockbridge jail King was given
the opportunity to share a ceil
with the ijlustrious Mel Green-
berg or Donkey Woman. Tube
chose to take up residence briefly
with Mel who occupied the bot-

tom bunk while Tube took the
lop.
The fraternal atmosphere of

the tank made an instantaneous,
intimate relationship between the
two a foregone conclusion. With-
in minutes they were discussing
the problems of being a derelict
in Lexington.

We discussed this holiday in
the clink with the Tube King
who found the accomodations to
be some of the best in the city.
The staff was friendly and graci-
ous throughout his short sojourn
there.

The most interesting fixture in
the facility was Mel. The King
describes Mel's appearance as
that of a classic Greek. Mel was
pleased to have a roommate from
the university community and
said that he had been getting
tired of the same old faces.

Mel's attitude was good and
he seemed to be enjoying three
free meals a day and the read-
ing materials provided by Rock-
bridge County. His suite—while
not the Lee—was nevertheless
suitable and he was fairly con-
tent. Mel did admit that by re-
peating his film caper in Ohio
he might not have used the best
possible judgement, to put it
mildly.

and tense today. Perhaps his
greatest insight was revealed
when he said that inflation is
only an invention of the restau-
rants in Lexington that permit
them to realize increasingly large
profit.

Arthur creates a great deal of
the sense of timelessness he
gives to his jokes, which one
suspects are as old as Arthur
himself:

“Did | tell you the one about
the man who came in and said
his sister-in-law was an angel to
which I replied that unfortunately
mine was still living.”

“The other day I went to Adair-
Hutton wanting some sundries
and notions, but when I went
up to the saleswoman I forgot
to ask her for the sundries and
said do you have any notions.
She allowed that she did, but
that she didn’t get off until five.”

And of course everyone has
heard Arthur's joke about the
woman with the peanut butter
legs.

As one enters Arthur's smal!
shop, he is amazed by an array
of bargains, especially in a time
of rising prices. Arthur gets
away with this through his own
very shrewd business sense. In-
stead of rushing out to the whole-
saler to buy the new fashions
Arthur merely holds onto this
old stock until it comes back into
style. By then the clothes have
the comfortable look, as though
they have been worn, or more
likely, as though they have pro-
vided a home for under-privileg-
ed moths.

. *

Poor taste

We received a communication
last week which was somewhat
out of the ordinary. A student left
a copy of The Ring-tum Phi in
our office on which he had
circled the front page picture of
the pigs. Beside this he had in-
scribed, “POOR TASTE! The
humor in the rest of the paper
is a bit incipid [sic] also.” If you
thought that was in poor taste
you should have seen the date
| had last weekend.

J.LR.

  

 

Ask Travelle

If you need a slightly out of
the ordinary, dynamite wardrobe,
or if you want to compliment the
one you already have Arthur is
the man to go to. Or if you
would ever like to converse with
a man of so many insights and
such shrewdity Author will be
glad to entertain you.

LETTERS 10 THE EDITOR

Pika fires back

Kditor, The Ring-tum Phi:

I wish to complain of several
libelous statements and egregious
inaccuracies found in the article,
“Student shot by a friend for
a lark” (Ring-tum Phi, Thursday,
October 3). Obviously, the article
Was written tongue-in-cheek, but
the facts of the matter should
be presented in fairness to those
involved in the mishap. Billy
Craver never said he “mistook a
6'2" SAE for a dove,” and when
I read such an untrue assertion,
I wonder why on earth I ever
mistook the Ring-tum Phi for a
newspaper.

Craver did not “take a shot at
a SAE;” he took a shot at a
mourning dove. Unfortunately,
his friend Kim Ratliff (to whom
I may refer by name) sat some
thirty yards away, heavily cam-
ouflaged, virtually unpreceivable,
with his back directly in the line
of fire. The pellets were squeezed
from his back seley by Mr.
Craver, not by “a united action
of which the IFC would be
proud”, Fortunately, Ratliff was
not injured seriously. He and
Craver remain good friends and
were seen “juking” together at
Pika house Saturday night.

Both gentleman, as well as sev-
eral of the “wild men” from Pika
have expressed their extreme dis-
pleasure to me concerning this
absurd article, so I pass it on to
you. Perhaps you should have
checked out the facts with the
person who fired the shot before
you fired yours.

Sincerely,
Alfred B. Bettis,
President, Pi Chapter
Pi Kappa Alpha

DEAR TRAVELLER—What's this about Lexington being declared
one of the safest places to live in the country? Why, just the
other day, | nearly killed myself when my skateboard hit a crack
in the sidewalk in front of the Colonnade and | was catapulted
Into three old ladies and a leaky poodle in the front of Lee Chapel,

(Signed) Rusty Wheels

DEAR WHEELS—Yes, it's true. Our great city has been proclaimed
one of the few safe places to live in the country by Watermelon
in his book, Safe Places in America: Bast, Besides Lexington,

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subseription
rates: $7.00 for the school year.
Editor-in-chief
JESS L. REEVES
Managing Editor

Business Manager
DAVID R. LEE
. Paul J, Lancaster

News Editor .. Robert A. Cook
Sports Editor . Bill Fiesher
Photography Editor Bill Robinson
Entertainment Editor Barney Skelton

Circulation George Smith

Statement of ownership, management, eireulation, ete. (required
by the Aets of Congress of August 24, 1912) of The Ring-tum Phi
published weekly in Lexington, Virginia, 24450, for the 1973-1974
academic year:

1.) Names and addresses of the editor-in-chief and business man-
ager: Mditor-in-chief—Jess L, Reeves, 157 South Main Street, Lexing-
ton, Virginia; Business Manager—David R, Lee, P.O. Box 620, Lex:
ington, Virginia.

23 The owner is Washington and Lee University (Publications
Hoard), Lexington, Virginia 24450,

4.) The known bond holders, mortgages and other security hoiders
are none.

i.) The average number of copies of each issue of this publication
distributed through the mail or otherwise to subscribers ie 1600.

David It, Lee

other safe places on this side of the Mississippi include a bem)
shelter in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, the Antioch Revivalist
Hallelujah Chureh in Biloxi, Mississippi, and men’s room 43 at
the Pentagon, It's obvious what Lexington has in common with
these other places,

How was the safeness of Lexington determined, you may ask,
| may answer that Lexington was judged safe after 47 horny
virgins were strapped to telephone poles around the city for
two weeks in March, 1973, and not one was violated. In fact, not
one was noticed: Lexington is that safe, Anyway, the 47 now
work as ghost writers for Xariera Hollander, after leaving Lex-
ington for less safe places,

Ah, but it was not only the experiment with these women that
determined Lexington’s place among the elite few. Other factors
included Lexington's ability to combine the old with the new,
as testified by the age-old pink Presbyterian Church, adorned in
modern style with stained-glass frisbees, or the quaint old streets
with thelr modern traffie jams.

What else makes Lexington the safe city it is? Murder is un-
heard of—the local coroner doubles as a soda jerk at the Quid.
Robbery is also unknown—there'’s nothing in the city worth steal-
ing. Indeed, there are few crimes for which Lexington would be
a haven, although the socloeconomic status of the area seems
to qualify it as a potential breeding ground for welfare cheat-
ing, if only the government would explain to the city what wel-
fare is.

Looking back in local police files, the last unnatural death
recorded in Lexington occurred when the driver of a car hit his
head on a telephone pole while turning a corner and died instantly.
Why a driver would come so close to a telephone pole as to hit
his head was net determined hy police. Date of the death was
Mareh, 1973, That date rings a bell for some reason ,
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

R-M 20: One truly amazing game

     

 
   

Te: : . ge CF ei iain tse,

So

With receivers Mark George (87) and Tony Perry (8) removed from the play by Randolph-Macon cov-
crage, W&L quarterback Jack Berry puts the football under his arm and heads upfield. Berry and
the W&L offense had another good day Saturday, but the unusual play at the end of the Homecoming
game cost the Generals their first 1974 win, and forced them instead to settle for a 20-20 tie.

Meanwhile,
CROSS COUNTRY

The Washington and Lee cross
country team opened their season
by splitting a double dual meet
Saturday, beating Roanoke, 23-32,
while falling to Old Dominion by
the same score.

Tem Washington led W&L run-
ners with a second place fnish.
He covered the difficult five-mile
course in 27:54.

INTRAMURALS

Only two teams—Phi Kappa Psi
and Law Il—remain undefeated
after two weeks of the 1974 Intra-
mural season, Football playoffs
begin next week.

Phi Psi’s Ray

Rheault was

—Phi photo by Glenn Dulken

on the upper fields...

named player of the week in
week two of the season.

SOCCER

Jim Fox's goal with 13 minutes
left enabled Washington and Lee’s
soccer team to salvage a 2-2 tie
with Randolph-Macon Friday.

The Generals bolted to a 1-0
lead with just seconds gone when
Bob Crawford scored following
an error by R-M goalie Ralph
Vaughn. The Yellow Jackets’ Phil
Bourdreau then score twice in
the opening half to give R-M a
2-1 lead at intermission.

The W&L defense, led by goalie
Paul Devine, who made 15 saves,
held R-M at bay throughout the
second half. Then Fox got the

tying goal off a rebound.

W&L’s record now stands at
10-2. The Generals host state
champion Madison Sunday after-
noon at 2 pam, The game will en-
able W&L students to see what
is probably one the nation’s fin-
est college soecer teams in action.

Travel Unlimited
FREE RESERVATIONS
All Tickets—No Extra Cost
Let us save you time, money
& long distance calls,

21 W. Washington 463-7174
Lexington, Va.

 

By BILL FLESHER
Phi Sports Editor

Homecomings, with their parties
and reunions, can often bring out
the zaniest in people.

At Washington and Lee Satur-
day the annual alumni reunion
went one step further—along
with all the fun came a_ wild,
wacky, and at times unbelievable
football game,

Consider the following events
if you need proof:

—Randolph-Macon failed to
convert any extra points, while
W&L got some help from above
when a Ralph Moore PAT at-
tempt hit the upright and bounc-
ed through.

—The Yellow Jackets commit-
ted more penalties than did the
Generals, turned the ball over six
times against W&L’s one mistake,
and yet still piled up more total
offensive yards than did the
homestanders (343 to 263),

—Fans again left what was a
tight ball game with several
minutes left to enjoy other en-
tertainment which could not have
been as good or as exciting as
the closing seconds of the game.

It Was as zany as it could have
been, Unfortunately for W&L, the
last play from scrimmage was
the zaniest, and it cost the Gen-
erals their first 1974 win.

With :13 left, Randolph-Macon’‘s
Jay Tingle fired a desperation
pass toward the end zone. W&L
freshman cornerback Charlie
Brown backpedaled and picked off
the pass. It looked like a 20-18
win.

Brown's momentum — carried
him into the end zone, where he
continued running with the ball
in an attempt to kill the clock.
Then, in a mass of confusion, he
dropped to one knee to down the
ball for a touchback. However,
the officials ruled it was Brown's
own impetus, not momentum,
that got him into the end zone.
Instead of a touchback, the signal
was for a safety, and the one that
would have gone into the win
column went to the other side
of the record listings as a 20-20
tie,

Weekly Football Contest

463-5691

Baked with the Homemade Touch

COUNTRY KITCHEN

BREAD, CAKES, PASTRIES
Open Daily 7-5

The Place for a quick, light breakfast

V.M.L. at Citadel

8 N. Main

 

”

Monday thru Friday

Saturday 8 .m, to 2 p.m.

McCrum’s Drug Store

“Choose Your Druggist As You Would Your Doctor”
CALL 463-2323

Store Hours

Stanford at

8 am, to 6 p.m,

Sunday 8 a.m. to | p.m.

UCLA

 

:
7
|
:
7

*

Suits by Kingsridge

Kansas at

SHOP BRAND NAMES
to be sure

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons’ Inc.

OPPOSITE R. E, LEE MOTEL

Nansas State

Shirts by Manhattan

 

HO tn wigpe?

 

Main Office:
15 South Main
Street

SSE SESS SSSESESSSESSSSSS SSS SS SESE TCS SESS SESS CESSES

United Virginia Bank

More Than A Bank...
Student Accounts Welcomed

Lexington, Virginia

Texas at Texas

Branch Office:
708 South Main
Street

\&M

 

Win Cash Prizes

Vick the winners in each ad on this page. The person getting the most
correct wins first prize; next best, second prize, ete, In case of a tie
the closest guess at the actual score of the tie breakers listed below
will win, The contest is open to anyone except members of the
RING-TUM PHIL, Bantries must be postmarked before Noon on Satur-
day (Box 899) or brought to the RING-TUM PHI office in the Print

Shop by Noon Saturday, Only one entry per person,

First Prize $5.00 Second Prize $3.00
Third Prize $1.00

 

 

Official Entry Blank

Advertisers

United Va. Bank (Rock.)

Alvin-Dennis

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons
College Town Shop
McCrum’s Drug Store

Winners

First National Exchange Bank

Ring-tum Phi

Country Kitchen

Hampden-Sydney vs

LSI

Pennesece Vs

Name

\ddress

Fotal Points

WA&L

The safety dulled what head
coach Bill McHenry termed “the
best 60 minutes of football we’ve
played this year.” Though the
Generals were outplayed as far
as the statistics show, it was
obvious throughout the game that
it was W&L who was taking the
play to their opponents.

The W&L offense threatened on
their first possession as they
drove to the Yellow Jacket 13,
but a 30-yard field goal attempt
by Moore went wide, Only a few
minutes later, after freshman
Mike Airheart recovered a R-M
fumble on the visitors’ 15, the
Generals moved in with Rob
Lindsey diving over from the one.
Moore’s kick made it 7-0, with
1:33 left in the first period.

The W&L defense sitiffened on
the following series, forcing the
Yellow Jackets to punt. Then
W&L moved 80 yards in six plays
—including a 26-yard burst by
Lindsey, and passes from Jack
Berry to Tony Perry for 10 yards,
to Eamon Cassell for 18, and to
Mark George for 26 and six
points on the second play of
the second quarter. Moore’s kick
then hit the upright, got the
membership bounce, and it was
14-0,

Wé&L got a golden opportunity
just two plays later, when Louis
McFadden, who had two _ pass
thefts later, recovered a Budgy
Campbell fumble at the R-M 18,
But another field goal attempt
by Moore, this one from 34 yards
out, failed.

The Yellow Jackets then got on
the seoreboard late in the first
half. With Jeff Hutchinson, a bet-
ter runner than starting quarter-
back Tingle inserted, Randolph-
Macon exploited the Generals’ de-
fense with the option play, where
they found great success. With
1:08 left in the half, Tim Rzep-
kowski, last year’s most valuable
player in the Virginia Collegiate
Athletic Conference, went in from
three yards out. Bruce Fleegal’s
kick went wide, leaving W&L
with a 14-6 halftime lead.

The Yellow Jackets maintained
their momentum in the third

quarter, After stopping W&L fol-
lowing the second half kickoff,
R-M moved 55 yards in 13 plays,
with Rzepkowski going in from
the one. A Hutchinson pass for a
two-point conversion missed its
target, and the Generals’ lead was
cut to 14-12,

Then two plays later a strong
Yellow Jacket rush forced Berry
to throw the ball up for grabs.
Ileegal moved up from the sec-
ondary to intercept the pass and
give R-M a chance to go ahead.
But eight plays later Jeff Opp
returned the favor for W&L,
picking off a Hutchinson pass at
the Generals 10 to stop the threat,

Both defenses stiffened until
midway in the final period, when
R-M given good field position
by a Hutchinson punt return,
moved 42 yards in 7 plays, with
Rzepkowski again scoring, this
time from seven yards out.
Another pass for a_ two-pointer
failed, and the Yellow Jackets
took their only lead of the day
at 18-14,

That’s when a good part of the
Wilson Field crowd of 5,000 head-
ed for the bridge which proved
to be a big mistake. Brown re-
turned the kick to the 36, and
the W&L offense went to work.
A 14-yard gallop by Mercer West
gave the Generals a first down
at midfield. Then Berry scrambl-
ed for 19 yards to the R-M 31.
A Berry-toCassell pass set W&L
up at the 5, and two plays later,
Berry arched a four yard scor-
ing strike to Perry, who made
a sensational catch while stretch-
ed out in mid-air. But Moore's
kick was blocked, giving the Gen-
erals a 20-18 lead.

Randolph-Macon got the ball
and picked up a first down, but
then was forced to punt. Then
the Yellow Jackets stopped a
W&L attempt to run out the clock,
forcing a punt with 1:03 left.

Two passes by Tingle moved
the ball from the R-M 40 to the
Generals 41. An incompletion left
13 on the clock, and then came
the pass which changed the final
outcome of a zany, crazy 60
minutes of football.

Sponsored by the

Business Firms on this page

Kegs

10 WEST

EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE OEE EEE EEE EEE EEG E EE EEE EE EE EE EEE SEES EEE EE EEE EEE ETE SESE ESS CEE EE EEE EEE SESE EEE CEE EEE eee ee eee eed

PARAMOUNT INN

Pizza

DAILY LUNCH SPECIAL $1.25
Student Checks Welcome
OPEN 1012 DAILY
WASHINGTON

Wisconsin at Ohio State

 

Slacks by

Alan Paine
Sweaters

Austin Hill .?

Corbin =

a College
Shirts &

Sweaters

Shap

Borenstein—PBM
Suits

Sero—Creighton
Town oon

Clarks—Footjoy
Shoes

“Lexington s only clothing store owned and

 

 

First National Exchange Bank

is ready to meet your student needs with
24 hr. banking
NELSON STREET OFFICE

Tennesse at LSL

 

Large selection
of outerwear

Hampden-Sydney vs

 

Deans Sweaters

t

$

and operated by W&L gradute”’ 7
West Virginia at Pittsburgh
Kipper Ties :

$

Sero all cotton

button down shirts

Alvin-Dennis

Wl
LEEREEEEE ESOS SEES EEO EIT EET TEE E EEE EEOOO OOOO EEE E EEE EEE TOES ETE EEEEEEEEET ESE SEDOETEEEEEEDE EEE EEEEEEE EEE EET OOOS FOFFOOO000000654000EH000

(at Lynchburg)

“
++
Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

 

 

Appalachia

Hamric and Pickin’ Palor

Sheridan

Jewelers

Lexington

Delicious Meal-Size
Sandwiches

Hntertainment daily at lunch
and Wed,-Sat, from 8:30-12:00

Hardware

23 S, Main
463-2242

Watch and Jewelry Repair

Hand Engraving & Class Rings 30 N. MAIN 463-3805

163-2022

 

 

 

TTT ere er ee rr ere

Kenney’s

OF LEXINGTON

| The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

\ restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites. Chicken, Burgers
\ different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love

fine things, Students may make reservations for their parents and and Fish

tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas. Open Sunday-Thursday
10 a.m.-11 p.m,
VRIDAY & SATURDAY

10 a.m-12) midnight

ne

 

 

 

 

i i i i ti i

~_AAAAAAAABABAABAABAABRAABA SD, |

The First National Bank and Branch

of Lexington

 

Hours from 93 Monday-Thursday v6 Friday
Has Special Checking Accounts for Students

SPECIAL 20%

 

Reduction on
Photo Finishing

The University Supply Store

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

Reliable Service In
Shirts Laundered

 

bee beet

SCHEWEL’S
FURNITURE

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service Clothing Repair

Alterations Complete Dormitory
Storage & Free Moth Profing Needs.
146 S. Main
WE DELIVER 463-3622 463-2175

‘ PEELED EEE EEE EE bebe ey

   

a seommmmmmrmmnnrrsns I aoe a oe te ee ale ee oe oe oe alee abso abe eae of ade afeade fea e oe afeeade ate fe ae nde eae sfonde eo agente ade eae ate apes
pe PRS Bare : , . — ee . Erp .
sone ING a we em et, FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
oe NE ee ae

Varner & Pole

“THE COMMUNITY THEATRE”

Se Peete eee tee

BEECH AVENUE 115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.
BUEANA VISTA, VA. PEEEEEEEEOEEE SEES SEES ES E+E S ESET ESOS ES
Phone 261-2000

PRIDAVSATURDAY
OCTOBER tt-12
Late Show 11:50 p.m,

Washinton and Lee University
#uoksture

    

TAKE TO THE WOODS

Hoine in Your Pack

  
 
    
 

née
wt Ba»
The Epochal Event in

\ ih kuie rlainnyals dete

Backpacking Guide to the

Southern Mountains
Blankenship

ee “@eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeee

|

 

The
Lexington
Bicycle
Shop
BEOR THE BICYCLE
CONNOISSEUR

(and all other
bike owners )

Our house specials are our Fuji, Batavus, & Falcon Bikes. |

Feast your eyes on our tempting assortment of accessories.

We can satisfy all of your repair needs with our expert
repair work and large parts’ inventory.

Open 9:30-5:00 Mon.-Sat.

 

 

| 130 S. Main St.

 

Thursday, October 10, 1974

ecsenanenl) |
- Galleries

Formerly Shenandoah Crafts .

25 N. Main St.

Lexington, Va.

Arts & Crafts

Fights Inflation
All You Can Eat

  

$2.25
$3.25

Wednesday Italian Spagetti

Buffet

Includes Endless Salad Bar

HoCdlan, Swe

Sunday

' Wendell’s
_ Barber Shop —

a a a

 

 

PAA A A Re te Me Ae en Mem Mee te A Ar tm te the A ert Ai Mi A Ae th Ae te te tt A eet the, et th th, ln

ee

 

Open 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

Lee-Jackson Book Shop

29 N. Main MRS. ALICE DAVIDSON
Has For Sale Reprints of

LEXINGTON
in Old Virginia

by HENRY BOLEY

R/C Theatres

Tats

LAST TIMES THURSDAY

 

 

 

“Death Wish”

 

 

ft tl eens

 

 

 

 

with
CHARLES BRONSON PRES BROWNS
STARTS FRIDAY | Heute of quate
The story of two uet |
a | STEREOS
ELLIOTT GOULD |
‘ . . | i F ‘
“California Split” | Lexington’s Panasonic
| Headquarters
| : wan
; CASSETTE and 8-TRACK TAPESE
LYRIC | Columbia TDK Scotch BASF
WEDNESDAY thru SATURDAY | 115 W. Nelson St. 463-5982
“Harrad Summer” + ——_—
» VICTORIA "THOMPSON ( a
NEXT WERK STUDE NTS!
Three all time favorites
ur
The Great Make this your headquarters for
”
Escape GOOD FOOD AND SERVICE
‘Magnificent
Seven” We have meal tickets at savings to you
(The Original) SOUTHERN INN
Easy Rider
— Y

 

 

 

 

SEEEEEEEEEE EE EEE EE EE EE EEEE EEE EEEEEE EEG EEE EEEEEEEEEEESES EEE O EEO H ED ey

‘

*

P. K. German of the University Union at
University of Virginia

presents

LEO KOTTKE

also
EMMY LOU HARRIS and THE ANGEL BAND

HOMECOMINGS WEEKEND

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11
Memorial Gym

(Festival Seating )

Tickets $3.50 Advance $4.00 Door

AVAILABLE AT
Mincer’s, Newcomb Hall, Stacy’s, Back Alley Disc. or
Write P-K German, Newcomb Hall, University of Virginia
Charlottesville, Va. 22901

CPPS SSOOOE TL ETT t

PEEEEEEEEEE EE EEEEE EEE SEEPS OSES EEE E EEE SESE EOE E TO TOES OOo bbboe hoe eeeeeees ;

“
fe
oe
%
te
%
a
te
z
te
ae
cs
“e
%
*
”
:
:
te
te
$
we
“
°
fe

Le

Peon

SP

 

 
