   

 

37 3 . 755
R552.
V. I i 5
r“‘.0 . 2 0

 
    

WASHINGTON AND Liar UNIVERSITY   «

I S I
. MONDAY,ltl 013 BY THE STUDENTS AND FORSTHE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEOXV||,NUMBER20

insil-SK ZI)¢:vv:I:'.|.to  

  , D — V  .

ommu . um mm

news | 3

Students are
“Boston Strong”

Students across the coun-
trfy take action in su port
0 the bombing inci ents
in Boston.

 

   
  

   
   

  
 

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF warren

  
   

    

Several W&L students opt
out of classes for spring
0 term by spring option— 4%;
ing. See how students are '
spending their spring op-

tion this term.

go social

  
 
  

 

Friend us on
Faoebook!

K .

 
 
 
 
   

@ringtumphi

 

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

     
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

   

     

Facebook with \“
\t\\39 Challenging
' at d d
. I s. I S
 stpicture
0pinions...5 ,
Ans &ufe___6 I 0 . _ g ‘ n  _ é ‘_ H   V g V _ We’9«L semor exposes a
spo,._.,___g -  T V g  2,  __ ~  _ . - V.    frustrated zmage of Afrzca m
 e T ’  ‘      ‘_  s so -A 1 Western Media
.  ‘ A 0'. N V S . ,  .  ' . V  .  :5‘ By Andrea Owen
X Wednesday ' ‘ ‘  STAFF WRITER
partly cloudy ’ Atrica’s image in Westem media needs to be I
0 0 , challenged, said sophomore jOLlI'I’1al1SI11 major Waringa
'  I  .- Kamau in her 10-minute documentary.
 Kamau, who grew up in Kenya, wrote and narrated
‘ the documentary, “Africa in Western Media,” for her
Thursday ‘ = , V , . ~  - Race, Religion, and Media class last term. The video
MOSH)’ Sunny . has gotten over 2,000 views on YouTube since being
49 0. 710 ' ~ uploaded about three weeks ago.
At the beginning of the video, Kamau said she has
. been fortunate to be able to travel across Africa.
Friday “The Africa that I have grown to love and call home
7» g pa c|oudy ,__ is beautiful, bursting with cultural diversity, and it has a
. ” guy 0  Promising future,” she said.
49 '  But she said that the image of Aﬁica in Western
, media is predominantly negative.
, . g __ i . Saturday  A‘f:1Isike  Aﬁiclans, I am frutszatedkt/>y tthe way
i '  '- - ica an 1 peop e are presen e in es em onns
s '  S‘ 0 Mosuy cloudy of media,” she said. “Africans are always starving and
- 53 0_  0 dying and caught up in never—ending war.”
_W_ in the film, Kamau asked Washington and Lee
d , students to describe how they think Africa is portrayed

8”” 0)’ , in newspapers and television.

Few Showers ' , ‘ , p _ ‘_ y  Students mentioned starving children, AIDS,

1 4 0 0 ' animals, the savanna, hot weather,‘mosqu_ito nets,
4 4 4 54 '  .     8 poverty; and poor education.
. _ _ _ _ However, Kamau said in an interview that not all
Monday . &L_ Men’sér%n_nIs;|:s %n|;aA<():f tltrle ma_ny tﬁamsgthat taghigéed sticcgsslfugl refsulttis in 0DA(c:l’s. Men's Students beiievethese gtereotypm ’
enms WOI1 - In e C amplons ID 8 ams fl ewa 6|‘ 0 e e 0|‘ 9 SGCOI1 CONSECU-
3h0We|'S ive season this Sunday. Photo courtesy of generalssports.com. V continued on page 2

 

53°-72°  

  

 

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

M 0 N DAY, APRIL 29, 2013

 

Prospective students get a glimpse

ByYejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

if

'-. " '  ' "-'.«.,ow_ .4-....;.A<-. _, _
- wot; ...».....a.... . ,
rut,-nuelnownznvo . _. .

=4’ """“"“"*f1='VI2o-nnv:r.v'vy1- . _
.. .,-,... « .,_ _ v

. «z ,....,.,'.“,



 

 

Admitted students and their families got a full tour of the W&L campus last Wednesday.

EANKIIVM / staff writer

 

Washington and Lee University was
ﬂooded with prospective students this

. past Wednesday.

According to Chris Browning, an
admissions counselor, 211 accepted
students were welcomed to campus. In-
cluding their families, over 500 visitors
were on campus that day.

Visitors came from 30 different
states, as well as the District of Colum-
bia. However, exact statistics will not be
available until later this summer, as the

, Ofﬁce is “still in the process” of admit-
. ting students, according to Mr. Brown-

mg.
The day included a continental
breakfast, followed by an introduction
to W&L with Dean of Admissions and
Financial Aid William M. Hartog and
President Ruscio.

Various panels addressed questions
not answered during the introduction
and student life presentation. A lun-
cheon was served on Canaan Green,
allowing students and their families
to bask in the sunshine and beauty of
W&L’s campus.

The admitted students experienced a
student activities presentation followed
by tours of all residence halls. The vari-
ous academic departments also had open
houses.

While Accepted Students’ Day is
held mostly for students in closer prox-
imity, current W&L students also hosted
students from states that were further
away.

Jacob Strauss, a ﬁrst-year student,
hosted two students, one from Dallas,
Texas and one from Colorado Springs,
Colo. “They’re both trying to decide be-
tween W&L and one other comparable
school, so I tried to just be honest and
straightforward about the school.” he
said.

First-year Joy Putney had an accepted
student from California. “She was look-
ing at the same program I’m in, and I re-
ally love the program so of course I tried
to sell it to her,” she said. Presenting a
full picture of W&L also meant that both
hosts took their students out.

8’née/eotilii 

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join us for one of our ALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday- Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday& Sunday6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm

Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu online

 

   Find us on Face book

 

Breaking the Bank

By Rachel Adams—Heard
STAFF WRITER

While the Washington and Lee
Spring Break week is free of academic
pressures, the travel culture brings a ﬁ-
nancial stressor.

W&L students ventured near and far
for their 2013 spring break. Many stayed
within the country, renting houses in
Georgia, Alabama and Florida, while
others ventured to Cabo San Lucas and
Punta Cana. One thing all these trips
had in common, however, was a price.

Senior Caki Buckthal was one of the
more adventurous travelers this spring
break. She, along with over 100 other
W&L seniors, ﬂew to Punta Cana in
the Dominican Republic for a round-
trip price of $550, not including the $60
worth of gas it took to get to the Dulles
Airport in Washington, D.C. Once they
arrived, the cost of staying at the all-in-

$1”

 

clusive resort amounted to $554 per per-
son. When factoring in $50 for airport
food, Buckthal spentjust over $1200 on
her senior spring break trip. _

While upperclassmen tend to choose
more expensive and exotic locations for
their ﬁnal undergraduate spring break,
ﬁrst-years and sophomores look domes-
tically when picking the perfect spring
break spot.

First-year Hays Cochran organized
her sorority pledge class’ trip to Gulf
Shores. For their beachfront property
that housed 40, each person paid $357.
Cochran collected an additional $30 for
a community food fund, which paid for
meals the pledge class cooked together.
The steepest price was gas for the 827

miles from Lexington to Gulf Shores,-

which amounted to almost $500 for Co-

chran and her friends to take a fellow
sorority sister’s car.

An alternative to the relaxing and
sandy break spent by many W&L stu-
dents was the Reformed University Fel-
lowship’s trip to Chicago to help Sun-
shine Gospel Ministries and their ﬁght
against poverty.

First-year Payson Miller paid an
initial cost of $540, which included a
place to stay at one of Sunshine’s facili-
ties and most of his food. Miller said he
spent an additional $60 on food and $10
on souvenirs for a total cost of $610.

“Even though it was comparable in
price to a beach trip, I got the added
beneﬁt of personal growth and serving
others,” said Miller.

» HANNAH MELKUN / photographer

   

,7
1‘

 

 

L.

 

  

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

Unitin

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

   

On the days following April 15, it
was nearly impossible to tune into any
news source that wasn’t talking about
the bombings at the Boston Marathon.
The nation was on high alert as people
across the country anxiously watched
thestory unfold..

The immediate coverage of every
new detail in the crisis pinpointed the
w_ay that news and media have evolved.
Information poured in from every pos-
sible source. Regular people, notjust of-
ﬁcials, got involved with the reporting
process, giving the situation an; interac-
tive element.

Washington and Leejoumalism pro-
fessor Claudette Artwick said, “Instead
of having th_e authorities of the main-
stream media conveying their expert
knowledge, coverage of an event like
Boston is becoming more ofa conversa-
tion.” (A full reportof Artwick’s com-

ments can be found on the W&L web-
site.) ‘

Regardless of potential positive or
negative consequences of such quick
and interactive reporting, this change
in coverage style heavily impacted the

. la‘  »  ,.
break at the time of the bombing. Many
were frantically checking to see if their
friends were safe not by going to news
sources but by searching for Facebook
or Twitter updates.

The use of social media in report-

“I think so many people wanted to help because it hit so

close to home for a lot of us. I was so shocked when I

ﬁrst heard. It could have been me there.

LILLIE JOHNSTON ‘16

way in which students across the coun-
try heard about and responded to the
bombings.

Many students ﬁrst heard about
the attack through some kind of social
media. This was particularly true for
W&L students, who were on spring

ing also gave students a way to quickly
organize and respond. Despite campus
shut downs at many of the major univer-
sities in the Boston area, students joined
together to do what they could.

‘W&L ﬁrst-year Lillie Johnston said:
“It was incredible to see how so many

communities came together to support
the city. All ofthe efforts and responses
of such a large number of people made
me really proud to be a Bostonian.”

Two students from Boston Col-
lege organized- an event called “Boston
Marathon: The Last Five” that will be
held on May 3 to provide support for
the community and to gather donations.
It started as a small event publicized on
Facebook and already has over 18,000
planning to attend.

Boston University created a scholar-
ship to honor a student who was killed
in the bombings. In addition, one ofthe
fraternities at BU changed their annual
laser tag tournament to a fundraiser for
Boston.

Students everywhere joined in the
media conversation by posting on Face-
book and Twitter with updates, support
statements and personal responses to the

g after Boston bombings

situation. ,

Students at the University of Kansas
started an online fundraising campaign
to assist victims of the explosion. Com-
munity runs are also being set up across
the country to show support for all in-
volved with the Boston Marathon and to
gather funds. These runs will be held at
the University of Massachusetts, Syra-
cuse University, the University of South
Carolina and other universities.

At ‘W&L, students who are from the
Boston area promoted the sale of “Bos-
ton Strong” t-shirts. The phrase has
become a sort of rallying cry for all of
those affected by the attack.

“I think so many people wanted to
help because it hit so close to home for
a lot of us,” said Johnston. “I was so
shocked when l ﬁrst heard. It could have
been me there.”

' STAFF WRITER

Devastation continues in Texas

By Randy Karlson

~* a .
.n

-.p.

Explosions at a fertilizer plant in the small town of West, Texas killed 14 people and injured about 200.

Explosions at a fertilizer plant dev-
astated the town of West, Texas on April
17.

The_blast killed 14 people and injured
an additional 200. The event closely fol-
lowed the Boston Marathon bombings
on April 15. _

West is a small town 70 miles south
of the Dallas-Fort Worth area, and about
20 miles north of Waco,‘ Texas. It has a
population just fewer than 3,000 people
and is part of McLennan County.

The West Fertilizer Plant exploded at
around 8 p.m. and was caused by a ﬁre
that started around 7:30 p.m. on April
17. Though the source of the. explosion
is known, the cause of the ﬁre is not and
is still under investigation. The explo-
sion shook houses over 50 miles away
and registered a 2.1-magnitude earth-
quake by the U.S. Geological Survey.

Oﬂicials from the Safety Engineer-
ing Network based out of Milford, Ohio
said that a possible cause of the ﬁre is a

substance called ammonium nitrate that
was stored in the West Fertilizer Plant
in excess of 270 tons. This substance is
explosive when mixed with a ﬂammable
substance and exposed to a ﬂame, and
was used in the Oklahoma City bomb-
ing in 1995.

ProPublica reports that the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Administration
had not inspected the plant since 1985
and the plant’s owners had not reported
how much possibly ﬂammable fertil-

izer they housed to the Department of
Homeland Security. This raises many
questions about whether the plant was
operating under safe conditions and if
the ammonium nitrate was housed safe-
ly.

Even though there are many ques-
tions about the speciﬁcs of the explo-
sion, there has been an incredible out-
pouring of support for the victims and
the entire town of West during this tough
time. The close proximity to the Bos-

ton Bombing brought the United States
together in a somber reﬂection and this
was expressed throughout many memo-

rials and tributes in Texas and the rest of

the country.

President Obama spoke at the West,
Texas memorial service. “You have been
tested. West,” he said. “You have been
tried. You have gone through ﬁre. But
you are and always will be surrounded
by an abundance of love.”

Obama spoke of the resilience of

West and America as a whole. “America
needs towns like West,” he said. “That’s
what makes this country great, is towns
like West.”

Not only did President Obama sup-

port the victims ofthe explosion, but lo-
cal sports teams like the Texas Rangers
and Dallas Stars also gave support. The
Rangers collected relief supplies at the
gate of their game against the Los Ange-
les Angels on April 23 as well as money
throughout the course of the game from
fans and the Texas Ranger Baseball
Foundation, raising over $40,000.

The Dallas Stars Foundation raised
over $3,000 during their game against
the Vancouver Canucks on April 22.

This explosion also affected

lives at Washington and Lee due to our
school’s large Texas population. Many
students reside in Dallas, just 70 miles
north of the affected area, including Hal
Hundley.
‘ Hundley was home in Dallas when
the explosion happened. “I was stunned
when I heard about it,” said Hundley.
“Mostly just hard to hear that happened
in such close timing to the Boston Mara-
thon bombings. I don’t know anyone af-
fected and I don’t have family out there
luckily, but it was just mostly a stunning
thing to hear about.”

 

 

   
  

mtg-.\-'1"-t-,’2_:.€=‘,! ‘E’ l-l’-‘H’-“.4i‘.l-‘<Y
 ._  8-. LEE ti3\3liIEli3iTY
LE1..;.?-Zf‘~i"L7i~5, W 24'-450

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

my 032013

I1 GWS H

 

Continued,

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

“At this college, people are smart,
so some of them do know that’s not the
reality,” she said. “It was pleasant to
know that people know about the nega-
tive image, but not all of them think that
that’s actually what’s there.

In the ﬁlm, African students de-
scribed some of the stereotypes they
have experienced in America towards
Afr'ica and its people.

“One time, someone asked me if
people from Nigeria lived in trees,” said
ﬁrst-year Honor Oghosa of Nigeria.

Similarly, sophomore Emmanuel
Abebrese of Ghana said that a camp
counselor once asked him if he had ever
eaten zebra meat.

Abebrese added that someone once
assumed he had to have learned all his
English in the United States rather than
in Africa.

“But we have good schools in Gha-
na, and that is where I learned most of
my English,” he said.

Kamau said in the ﬁlm that positive
stories about Africa are omitted from
Western media.

“Stories about Africans doing nor-
mal things like setting fashion trends and
making progressive political policies do
not receive much coverage,” she said.
“Instead, the media gravitate towards
those stories that reiterate the image of
Africa as the ‘dark continent’...Imagine
if African media only told Africans of
the shootings in Newtown, Chicago, and
Virginia Tech.”

Abebrese said he would like to -see
new images of Africa in the media.

“I’d like to see images about dance,

from

In

“Like many Africans, I am frustrated by the way Africa and its people are presented

in Western forms of media. ’

WARINGA KAMAU ‘13

J

 

I’d like to see images about cultural ar-
tifacts, images of history,” he said. “I’d
like to see images of technological ad-
vancements. I’d like to see images of
children having fun, not children starv-
ing, not children so close to death, but
children happy.”

Senior journalism major Papa Osei,
a native of Ghana and the producer and
editor of the video, said he partially

understands why the negative images

dominate, although he would like to see
a more balanced representation of the
country. 4

“Especially after [myjournalism pro-
duction class] I understand why, because
no one cares ifa billionaire from Nigeria
opened up a new business,” he said. “It’s
not newsworthy to the market in Ameri-
ca. . .but sometimes they need to balance
it out.”

“Challenging a depressed picture”

In the .video, Kamau also speculated
that the lack of positive coverage of Af-
rica could be due to the commercializa-
tion of news and that negative stories are
more popular with the public.

But Osei said he has seen an im-
provement in the past few years, not
necessarily in daily news but in features
or special segments, in which reporters
go to African countries and cover good
things. However, these reports should be
more prominent, he said.

Kamau said in the video that she
thought Africans should take more ac-
tion to change the perception of their
country in the West.

I She said that Africans are using so-
cial media to challenge stereotypical im-
ages that make Western headlines, but
that this initiative should be stronger.

Kamau said that she wants to help
start up a cable news channel that helps
Africans tell their stories.

And Kamau and other students are
already spreading awareness about Afri-
can culture on the W&L campus as part
of the African Society. This organiza-
tion of African and non-African students
celebrates African culture on campus
through events like African Cultural
Day.

Kamau emphasized the need to take
action to challenge the stereotypical im-
age of Africa.

“We can’t just sit and hope that may-
be one day a more balanced picture will
emerge,” she said.

Africana Studies minor o

By Krysta Huber
5 TA F F w R l T E R
In an effort to provide a more global

education of African studies at Wash-

ington and Lee University, the African-
American studies minor has been re-
placed with Africana studies.

Beginning in the fall of 20l3,'stu-
dents wishing to minor in Africana stud-
ies will enroll in courses that have an
international focus on the subject mat-
ter. French Professor Mohamed Kamara
said that the new version of the minor

expands its study of African culture be-
yond US borders.

“The African-American studies mi-
nor was originally restrictive,” Kamara
said. “The Africana studies minor is all-
inclusive.”

In addition to examining the Af-
rican-American experience, the Afri-
cana studies minor will cover the Afri-
can continent, the African experience
in Latin American countries and the

WASHINGTON AND IEE UNIVERSITY

TUM PHI.

' EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is t

students, faculty, parents and
I deeper into news affecting ca
accountable. Through our rep

prompts c

THE RING—TUM PHI is publis
undergraduate school year.
member of The Media Board,
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all le
to edit submissions for conte

advertising do not necessarily

court definitions of ii

LEXINGTON, VIR
TELEPHONE: (54

EMAIL: PH|@

TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for

discussions that lead to discovering information that

mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE

RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

FAX: (540) 458-4059

SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA .I. KORASH-SCHIFF

RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
HENDLEY BADCO-CK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO

HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER

RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

ANDREA OWEN
KRISTINA SEON

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

he mission of THE RING-

alumni. Our goal is to look
mpus life and hold leaders
orting, we aspire to spark

hange.

hed Mondays during the
THE RING—TUM PHI is a
which can be reached at
tters. We reserve the right
nt and length. Letters and
reflect the opinion of THE

be! and obscenity.

GINIA 24450
0) 458-4060

WLU.EDU

greater'African Diaspora, which is any
given time throughout African history.

Politics Professor Tyler Dickovick.
who teaches African politics, said that a
major effort in changing the minor is to
show students the links between differ-
ent areas of the subject matter.

“Part of the idea behind the program
is to illuminate the connections between
the African-American experience, Africa
itself and the African diaspora broadly,"
Dickovick said. “The African-American
perspective is still central to the pro-
gram, just supplemented by the Inore
global element.”

While adopting a global perspective
of Africana studies is signiﬁcant to re-
designing the minor, both Kamara and
Dickovick cited several other reasons for
the change. Both agreed that increased
student demand and increased interest
among professors have made the new
approach possible. I

“We have long had many strong fac-
ulty in African-American studies and
more recently we have expanded the
number of faculty interested in African
studies,” Dickovick said. “As the facul-
ty have offered Inore courses on Africa,
students have been better able to pursue

' those interests in the curriculum.”

Kamara said that the new approach
to the program would remind the W&L
community of its strong ties to African
studies. A

"ers a broad perspective

“Part of the idea behind the program is to illuminate the

connections between the Aﬁrican-American experience,
Africa itself and the African diaspora broadly. ”

TYLER DICKOVICK, Professor of Politics

“Many people don‘t realize that Wil-
liam Morrison was a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee," he said. “Morrison,
who lived in the Congo, is considered
to be one of the very ﬁrst human rights
activists for Africa. There is a plaque
hanging in Lee Chapel in his honor.”

The altered minor lends itselfto new
courses. One new course. AFCA I30:
Introduction to Africana Studies, will be
required of all students minoring in Afri-
cana Studies. Students will learn about
the major issues, debates and events that
have affected and continue to affect peo-
ple ofAfrican descent.

Courses that fulfilled requirements
for the African-American studies minor
will continue to be taught. The courses
cover a wide range ofdisciplines includ-
ing art, history, literature, politics, soci-
ology and music.

Though it has not oﬁicially been add-
ed to the course catalog, a new course
being developed by the history depart-
ment will study people of African de-

scent living in Latin America. He said
he anticipates that the course will be of-
fered in 2013.

Dickovick said he is hoping to per-
manently add his African Politics course
to the university catalog. In the past, he
has taught African Politics during a few
terms on campus and during springtenn
as study abroad programs in Ghana and
SenegaL

The faculty also hopes that the chang-
es to the minor will further increase in-
terest in African studies. Kamara said
that the faculty would not have pursued
any changes ifthey didn’t think students
would be interested.

Dickovick agreed that W&L has seen
a growth in the number of students inter-
ested in African studies. ~

“It seems to me there has been a dy-
namic. self—reinforcing cycleof student
and faculty interest that means the idea
of expanding into Africana studies is
now ripe.”

HOW MUCH DO YOU KNOW

ABOUT

.ﬂl.

 

   

 
 

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

opinions  

Sex in Lexz the power struggle of W&L’s hook-up culture

By Graham Colton
COPY EDITOR

 

Why do you have sex? Because
there’s nothing else to do when you and
she/he are drunk? Because it relieves
stress? To lose weight? Because it’s
pleasurable? To be pleased? To please
your partner?

But what should it be about? Each
other. I’m no six-star general, butI know
that sex should not be about what your
partner can do for you, but about how
you can bring pleasure to your partner.
Do you keep track of those with whom
you’ve fomicated? If I were sexually
active, I sure would. Why, you ask?
Because I, perhaps like you, view sex
not as a mutual communion of equally
autonomous individuals, but more as a
power play by which we gain a sense of
control over each other, having seen our
partner in her/his most vulnerable state

(of undress) and having had our way
with her/his most vulnerable body part
(her/his genitals). After intercourse, we
revel in the victor’s spoils, so to speak,
by telling others of our sexual ‘conquest.
At least I would. Anyway...

I believe that this fact says that I, as
an individual, am, by my very nature,
power hungry. Rather than seeking
the upper hand in sexual intercourse,
I ought to gain fulﬁllment from giving
my partner pleasure instead of receiv-
ing it. In the long term, I would actually
be more fulﬁlled than if I had received
more pleasure than I had given. If I
were an unselﬁsh sexual partner, then I
would ultimately not fornicate-and-tell.

Our so-called hookup culture — in
which self-interested individuals have
sex, in part, to gain power — might per-

petuate the high levels of sexual assault
we seem to experience. Non-monoga-
mous sex is, put bluntly, about power
and the demonstration thereof

Don’t you agree? I await the day
on which the commendable efforts of
l-in-4‘ pay off and rates of sexual assault
on this campus have fallen far below
the national collegiate average. When
women and men sit together at upper-
classman brunches (and elsewhere).
When “gender relations” is no longer a
buzz-phrase. When women won’t serve
food to men during Derby Days. I guess
I’m rambling.

In short, I urge you not to tell your
friends about what it was like with her/
him. A true gentleman, one such as R.E.
Lee, does not fomicate-and—tell.

Why has violence increased in America?

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

Unless you’ve been living under a
rock for the past few months, you’ve
been bombarded with news about the
gun control debate. Everyone and his
neighbor has an opinion about this topic,

and most people have stopped keeping-

their thoughts to themselves. But what if
gun control isn’t the real problem here?
What if, instead, all this talk about the
Second Amendment and background
checks is just a byproduct of a_larger is-
sue? ,

In the l980s and early 1990s, crime
rates spiked in almost" every major city
in America. Everyone has a different
explanation for why this happened. In
New York City, Los Angeles, and Mi-
ami, it was the “crack epidemic.” In
Chicago, it was a population problem.
Some people ‘say there wasn’t a strong
enough police presence. Others have
mentioned the economy. Not surpris-
ingly, a large crowd claimed that there
wasn’t enough regulation concerning
the sale ofﬁrearms.

And then, almost overnight, crime
rates quietly began to decline. Clinton
came out with a ban on assault weapons.
Reliance on prisons increased signiﬁ-
cantly. Drug markets began to change.
Incidents of violence plunged to histori-
cal lows, and have stayed relatively low

 

.y at » _«

ever since. '

However, experts now have reason to
believe that this trend might be chang-
ing. 2011 was the ﬁrst year since I993
that the year-to-year crime rate compar-
ison showed an increase, according to
the US Bureau oflustice Statistics. And
the main reason for the change? There
has been a surge in violent assaults.

lt’s easy to believe that violence is
becoming a progressively prominent is-
sue in America. In the past ﬁve months,
a school shooting in Newtown, Conn.
resulted in the death of 26 people, and
bombings in Boston killed three and
injured 260. Last year, the town of Au-
rora, Colo. was rocked by a mass shoot-
ing in a movie theater. In a university in
Oakland, Calif., a student stood up, told
his fellow classmates to line up against
a wall, and proceeded to execute seven
of them. At a high school in Chardon,
Ohio, a student killed three of his-peers.

When incidents like these occur
within such a small timeframe, you
begin to wonder what is triggering vio-
lence on such mass scales. Is it really
just that people have access to guns? Or
is there something else going on, caus-
ing Americans to act out in devastating
ways?

Several points have been made about

why there is an apparent increase in
violent crimes. Perhaps we simply have
more information about what’s happen-
ing around the country due to today’s
media coverage, and there really isn’t
that much of an increase at all. Perhaps
violent video games have seeped into
our systems and provoked us to act this
way. Perhaps it’s just a cycle, and, like
it did in the early ‘90s, crime rate will
once again decrease without any osten-
sible reason.

One thing that I’ve learned as a
psychology major is that the answer is
usually “it’s a little bit of everything.”
More often than not, it’s a combination
of many different factors that results in
any-one outcome. So while it’s tempt-
ing to point your ﬁnger at the latest Call
of Duty, or shake your head at the fact
that the news is giving way too much
attention to a situation which could eas-
ily be replicated by an attention-hungry
viewer, or demand that the government
crack down on weapon sales, the truth
is that it’s probably not any single as-
pect which is the root cause of this lat-
est trend. Rather, all of these things, and
many more, mos‘tTIik€ly contribute to
what we’ve seen ih in recent
months. " e“

That said, I’d like to propose a the-

 NBC (NEWS

 

From left to right, Tamerlan Tsarnaev (Boston bombing suspect), Eric Harris (Columbine shoote

 

if .

ory. Today, teens are more and more
isolated. Even when they’re together,
it’s common for people to be on their
phones, checking social media web-
sites and texting, completely caught up
in their own worlds. It’s so much easier
today to watch a movie on one‘s com-
puter rather than going out and social-
izing. It seems like most communication
is done via e-mail. This lack of connec-
tion to one another is becoming the new
norm. As a result, our ability to develop
relationships is being put at risk. Since
2007, the rate of diagnoses for disorders
such as autism and Asperger syndrome
has increased 72%. 15 million Ameri-
cans have been diagnosed with social
anxiety disorder. Depression has be-
come an epidemic. Bullying is the con-
stant nightmare of every school ofﬁcial,
as the Internet has made it both easy and
ubiquitous.

In short, a social numbness is spread-
ing across our country. Is it any surprise,
then, that people seem to have a snow-
balling knack for being so brutal towards
one another? The potential for someone
to feel ostracized, powerless, and unim-
portant is huge. Today, if someone feels
bullied by a particular group, they may
turn toward video games or television
shows, rather than returning to the social

-v

sphere. Most often, the person pictured
in the top right-hand comer of news
programs was the one who was isolated
from his peers. The shooting at Virginia
Tech in 2007 was perpetrated by a man
who had previously been described as
notoriously shy, largely due to the fact
that an anxiety disorder caused him to
have trouble speaking. One of the shoot-
ers who carried out the Columbine High
School massacre in 1999 was reported
to be suffering from depression; both
had been victims of bullying.

I don’t think that Facebook is to_
blame for the fact that more and more
students are standing up in the middle
of class and executing their neighbors;
rather, I think it is the changing culture
in America~one that allows for a per-
son to look at a computer screen for
days on end without a single social in-
teraction interrupting them—which has
contributed to a sense of isolation and
insigniﬁcance in today’s youth. This
powerlessness, I believe, has an im-
portant place amongst the contributing
factors that have led to so many recent
tragedies.

  

r), Dylan Klebold (Columbine shooter), T] Lane (Chardon, OH shooter),

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev (Boston bombing suspect), One L. Goh (oikos University shooter), James Eagan Holmes (Aurora shooting suspect), Seung-Hui Cho (Virginia Tech
shooter), Adam Lanza (Sandy Hook shooter) '

 

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013

 

  arts&life

 

 

‘r 62.. ..a_.  .A ’,ﬁ. —‘|=‘K~.'{

Social media across Washington and
Lee has been ﬁlled with both pride and
rivalry from this past weeks annual
Derby Days. Every year, Sigma Chi
hosts Derby Days, where the sororities
compete against each other in various
events and activities, in hopes of coming
out on top.

From colorﬁrl banners hung in the
Commons, to Facebook proﬁle pictures
promoting each sorority, to personally
designed tanks, Derby Days receives
clear publicity around campus and
nationwide. Sigma Chi holds this
philanthropic event every year at a
number of universities, with the goal
of raising money for a wide variety
of charitable causes, ranging from
the Children’s Miracle Network to
Huntsman’s Cancer Institute.

This year’s Derby Days events
started on Tuesday at the Pole Houses
I with various relay races, including

  

.'¢"*"”"\‘-"¥£!..C' ' wt .: ts

  

 

  

water balloon tosses, tug-of-war, and
three-legged races. Wednesday marked
the annual cook-off and Thursday

and Friday got more heated with‘ ﬂag
football.

Throughout the week, each sorority
revolved its activities around a speciﬁc
theme.»'Chi Omega got creative with its
slogan, mocking a Jack Daniels bottle
design and incorporating their chapter
name. Kappa Kappa Gama used “Keep
Kalm and Derby On,” also integrating
its sorority’s Greek lettering. Kappa
Alpha Theta’s slogan was, “Forget the
Rest; Derby with the Best,” while Pi
BetavPhi had a country theme with a
cowboy hat as a ﬁnishing touch on its
banner.

Other sororities drew inspiration from
popular culture. Kappa Delta channeled.
the hit videogame with “Call of Derby,”
andAlpha Delta Pi created a campaign
around the television show “Game of

Wu

     

~15! . v ‘. ITf‘}n ‘Ru...

 ‘ '4' Thrones.”

;5-.

While the competition may get ﬁerce

 

   between sororities, with an injured ankle

already appearing alter Thursday’s
’ football games, participants seem to use
g this as a prime opportunity for pledge
class bonding.
’ ‘- “lt’s been a great way to bond as a
' ; pledge class, and I think it’s awesome
;‘_ to see so many people come together
_v.‘ for a good cause,” said ﬁrst-year Bailey
_j‘i Russell.
7 The hard work Sigma Chi put into
J ‘ these events, along with the overarching
driving force of philanthropy, kept this
competitiveness tamed in the minds of
many sorority ﬁrst-years. '_
“Overall, Derby Days has been a super
fun experience,” said ﬁrst—year Hadley
Edwards. “Although we got completely
dominated in football one day, Derby
Days brought about a competition‘
that fueled the ultimate goal of raising

p for charity. First-year women seemed

I classes to bond while helping a greater

  

Continued, from “Down to Derby?”

money for charity, and I feel like all of
the sororities along with Sigma Chi did
a greatjob of making this happen!”
Derby Days brought students together,

including males, from all around
campus to watch the games in action.
While ﬂag football is notoriously .
popular, dishes like Jack Daniels fudge,
burger sliders and Mexican foods from C.
Tuesday’s cook-off attracted others to "T
the events. The 2013 Derby Days were i
another success in entertainment and

enthused about their first experience
with the games. V
“Derby Days is a fun way for pledge

cause,” said ﬁrst-year Mary Elizabeth
Shutley. “It has been a great week and
you can tell all the Sigma Chis worked
really hard-to plan the event and make
sure everyone had a good time!”

  

I

     

Artist, activist... and pothead?

Visionary leader Cheech Marin shares his take on different paintings

Graham Colton
c 0 P Y E D I T o R

In a public lecture on Monday, April 22,
Cheech Marin discussed an exhibition
entitled, “Chicanitas: Small Paintings from
the Chwch Marin Collection,” on display
at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar
Gallery through May 24.

You may know Marin from Cheech &
Chong, the comedy duo of the 1970s and
‘80s premised on cannabis cravings. But
Cheech, it would seem, knows his way
arotmd the art scene. .

Since the 1960s, artistic expression has
been an important agent of political activism
for the Mexican-American community;
its members marginalized by both law
and custom in the United States. As
Chicano/a artists garnered public attention
and respect,»their works have moved from
the peripheries of the art world to more
naditional museum and gallery spaces while
continuing to embrace themes of heritage,
legacy and community.

According to Marin, Chicano was
originally “a derogatory term by Mexicans
to refer to other Mexicans living in the
United States.” More recently, however,

the tenn has become “less of an insult and
more of a description.” As such, “Chicano”
has been used to describe an emerging
subculture of artwork.
Throughout the exhibit, Marin presented
various interesting works. The first was
. Ricardo Ruiz’s La Envidiosa, roughly

translated to “the greedy woman.” In this
painting, what does the mamacita desire?
Well, she is looking at the devil at her right
ear, so this sexy, spicy Chicana — baring

her cleavage and pooﬁn’ up that hair —
seems, uh, estrous. The color red repeats
throughout the painting — e.g., her red dress,-
blush and earrings — suggesting that she is
in concert with the red devil, not the white
angel. And why, I ask, are her eyes so much
larger than her lips? Perhaps because she
looks at boys more than she kisses them.

Second, John \_/aladez’s La Butterfbz

features a gaunt, nearly emaciated woman
who looks at us with tired, heavily made-up
eyes. An actual-size butterfly is tattooed on
her stemum. In this all-too-real depiction,

I see a prostitute, marked by her pimp

by the tattoo, fatigued by her profession.

She wears a Jesus piece in hopes of being
forgiven for providing for her child by the
7 only means she believes she can. Her lips

are plump, plush and party to the sins of bad

men. She‘does not smile.
Third and ﬁnally, Yinais Tattoo, by Sonia
Romero. In this work, Romero tattoos a

cigarette on a woman’s lower jaw. By doing

so, she makes visible an addiction that the
woman would rather hide. Our addictions
or even our secret shortcomings, Romero
suggests, will manifest themselves in one
way or another. Our public image, no
matter how perfectly prepared or deceitﬁrl,
will inevitably crumble to show ourselves
for who we truly are. This woman is, I
believe, addicted to cigarettes, the harsh
realization of which has made a lump in
her throat. As a result, she has diﬁiculty
swallowing, or, metaphorically, facing
reality.
A stretch of analysis? Maybe, but the
. same message that uniﬁes the entire exhibit,

nevertheless, remains: I should act with
the foreknowledge that who I truly am will
come to light.

 

  

 

MONDAY, APRIL 29,2013

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI *

 

°    arts&|ife  

True Life: I amTaking Spring

By Athena Cao , I
5 TA F F w R I T E R
From writing a ukulele album to preparing
for graduate school to simply relaxing, more
than 40 percent of seniors have chosen
Spring Option this year. These soon-to—be
graduates have opted to spend their last
Spring Term free from the constraints of
Washington and Lee University courses in
order to pursue personal goals.
. According to University Registrar
Supervisor Scott Dittman, a total of 221
students have declared to take Spring Option
up until last Thursday. Among the 173

seniors who constitute this number, some
are preparing for graduate school and/or
seeking employment, while some are ﬁnally
realizing a dream that they have never been

, able to pursue during school, and of course,
there are others who simply want to sit back
and enjoy their “last tree month.”

"‘A lot of people get this idea that [taking
spring option] is just ﬁrn, hanging out, going
out, going down the Maury,” said senior
Taylor Gilﬁllan. “Yes, some people might

do that, but for other people, it’s trying to get

to

ready for the real world.”
Gilﬁllan has a lot to do before he moves

down to Houston, Texas, for Teach

For America after graduation. He has
committed to teach at Sunnyside High
‘School for the next two years, but he plans
to stay there for even longer, said Gilﬁllan.
Besides getting his teacher’s certiﬁcate,
Gilﬁllan will also need to pick up his
Spanish skills, since Surmyside students
are predominantly Hispanic and African-
American. With the amount of work he '
-« 'r."n‘ = '-= _ , It .

7

    

    
 

   

said, he would not be able to take a course
this Spring Term.

“Spring Term is invaluable in my opinion
for people in my situation,” Gilﬁllan said. “I
know a lot of the other Teach For America
people here at W&L are doing the same
thing [Spring Optioning] for the same
reason.”

.. While Gilﬁllan is preparing for the real
world, fellow senior James Grasso is seizing
his last few days in college. With his two
friends, junior Kane Thomas and senior
Michael Novack, Grasso plans to spend his
Spring Tenn writing and recording a ukulele
album. '

‘‘I signed up for a class initially, and then
I realized that I am never going to have this
opportunity to spend four weeks to pursue
one thing [again],” Grasso said. “This is
kind of like my June because I start work,
like 20 days after graduation.”

According to Dittman, W&L started to
allow students to take Spring Option in
2009, and the number of students who
' declare the option has increased sharply
from 24 in 2010 to more than 200 this year.
.. Spring Term used to be six weeks long
— and students were required to take two
courses, but in 2010, the university decided
to increase the intensity of Spring Term
courses and shorten the semester to four
* weeks. Dittman said it was partly because
some faculty decided not to teach, or only
teach one Spring Ternr course, after the
". required faculty course load dropped from
7 12 courses to 11 courses for every two-year
’ period in 2006.

‘ “We were concemed about [not] being
able to offer enough courses that would give
every student a chance to take a course,”
Dittman said. “And we were hearing from
_ students, ‘we have an opportunity from this
V advantage here, we can start our summer
jobs, internships... whatever, in April, and
get a whole month ahead of most other
institutions.’”

Last week, junior Trey Hatcher started
3 his internship at J .P. Morgan in New York
3 City. Hatcher and two other juniors, Kip
Landry and Max F arrington, are working
as summer analysts in Investment Banking.
Among the over 100 interns coming from
all across the country, these three W&L
students are the only ones who were able
to start early and therefore increase the
duration of the 10-week internship up to

Senior Taylor Gilfillan isspen -

C He is also working  anoither,  «

 

morrg1arr:_ci.saying golodbye to every

with the‘M,ot_e.M,a-rine

Junior Shawn Swaney decided tor , , V A ,
bioiogy with hands-on

Laboratory in Florida. This programrﬁit
activities and» interactions, taking his.

 

1 has to complete before graduation, Gilﬁllan

Option

0 Nope, it is‘ not just about partying and tubing down the Maury. Students choose to Spring Option for a variety of reasons

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
 

  

16 weeks, Hatcher said. Ultimately, their
outstanding performance this summer could
win them full-time offers from J .P. Morgan.
Hatcher said the internship is tough but
worth it.

“We are working up to 100 hours a week,”
Hatcher said. “It’s a very intense experience
to set up your ﬁre—so to speak—but that’s
really how you want to learn and get your
hands dirty, early and whatnot”

While there are many beneﬁts to taking
Spring Option, there are certain tradeoﬂs
too. Perhaps the biggest tradeoif is missing
the opportunity to take an inspiring class.
Dittrnan gave some examples.

‘‘[I would take] any of them,” he said.
“[Like] the one last year, [when] Jim Warren
taught about whaling in Moby—Dick, and
they went up to the whaling museum in
New England. I mean, have you really
looked at the courses that are being offered‘?
The casino accounting one just sounds
fascinating; I’d like to know more about the
auto industry; [Econ 244] is going today to
Detroit; Professor Merchant is taking people
to civil war battle ﬁelds. . .”

Despite the vast array of classes,
some students use Spring Option as an
opportunity to take their education to the
next level, by enrolling in classes not offered
by the University. Junior Shawn Swaney,
for instance, will learn more about marine
biology as he intems at the Mote Marine
Laboratory, a prestigious lab in Sarasota,

F la. According to Swaney, the Marine
Stock Enhancement and Aquaculture
Program allows him to learn something that
W&L does not offer.

“[Marine biology] is something that is
not offered strongly at W&L,” Swaney
said. “While people are doing Washington
Term or taking a geology class, there wasn’t
anything like that for me on campus. So I
decided to pursue [an option] off campus. ”

Clearly, students make the decision to
Spring Option for a wide variety of reasons.
No matter what these reasons are, Grasso
said, a plan will be helpful.

“I would recommend everybody [who is]
taking spring option to conre in with a plan,”
Grasso said. “It’s nice to just hang out and .
party and relax with a ﬁiend, but if you have
one thing that you try to accomplish by the
end of the option, you can really make your
Spring Term a lot more meaningful.”

  

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, APRIL 29,2013

  

 

 
 

    
   
  
   

l" the nllmbele W ’ L t G if d
2 8 W&L takes down the "top-ranked seed en route to the ODA C title game
By Hendley Badcock . V
3 TA F F w R l T E R .
The number of games in a row that W&L sophomore Drew our - - ~ -
With win after win after win, the ~ _ ,, ~ v - I ~ V  “ls:/Emma eglrsllterﬂ: Seasimi L hb
. . , . - - - j‘ In I v--r--r ’«--‘H’ . erour ains c wewere
Weprinsky had hit In after Saturday s loss to Hampden- vV3’(:)irsI::’gSt<]>2Il1C%r1(I)1;lS te in « I  if  excited about thegoveminge win big: weuklngew we
sydney ended the Generals’ season the Old Dominion Athletic Conf§r:nce  5 iii;-Iiffiiffrlgrrzrrrr ' ﬂ ll ' 1 °°”ld Play berrer ‘hen we r‘ ” Waxter Sale “We
I ,, Tournament Championships this Saturday. l =' *7»!'!§A‘.f5T;§’ I 1.5’ if Jr 1'’: :3   Went into [lasl Wedr‘eSdeY’5l ganle really tlylng_t°
 Samrdayﬂhe Generals defeatedtop f‘ .7  ,v,p‘.r-r='ff';’:”.r ﬁﬁgwi clegn upktline little things likelcatchingandthrowmg
 dedc .lf d. h ODAC .ﬁ 1, .. - _;_. ,1” viii‘  _ -_-gr)‘ ,,zf,g ; an wo gmoreco esivey.
9 }::l3_ U1 or mt e , gem] nas ,‘T,:'r‘”" 9" lw l _ -. “ , ‘'°' ‘‘ " ‘I Teamdynamicshasplayedahugeroleinthe
 W&L gained an 8_5 lead by the second  1., g ' '_ Generals’ rise to success andtthheir current peak.
The number of games in the Big Ten’s football season start-  Ultimately Pulled 014 the el0Se '1   1 "  .;- be:1El:c:::i:ll;:f/Sgrgfiillelhviiloli23:11:/ltzaglﬁogslgjgo .
ing this fall. The conference will be divided into two divi- l The Generals. Were C0T1r1<lenrg0lng into ll .  - our Selllslllless and act as °lle.llllll’” ﬁlSl'yeal.Meg
; the game after their previous win against fl  I .-/l Pascale Sa1<l- We have done just that  I think
sions East and West The East division will host five games I Lynchburg and their 0Verall record °f  I ' V 3' It has made aposmve Impact on our ablhty to play
’ ' tl ‘ — " r ‘ V r to ether.”
:13-9. 'iI"J'Il'll.I_ " I‘ 3 . . .
during the even-numbered seasons and the West division 5 “When both sides of the ﬁeld are playing T J W T E T T .l H T I i H Tlleioldel playels exlllblled lllls example
their best lacrosse and working together, 3 esileclfllly to the younger Women‘
will host five games during the odd-numbered seasons start- we 3r e an UnSt0PPable team,”j1lI1l0r 0liVe We V6 asked a lot Oflhe lmderclasslnen and
I Waxter said. “We are playing our best Illeyﬂllle rfgly sletppedgrl and are Slamllg to Come
. . 1 uh t- nan A - oge er, rewsersai.
mg m 2016' s:‘;(E)Srfe:,\flhiC}::irsn‘l::,1;na:P]:),teaItntl1:):):; gctlrr” A lot of time and practice kept the Generals
A ' Junior Captain Meade Brewster agreed focused and working to succeed all throughout the
- that the Generals were “on the up.” Seflsoll , _ ,
“There,-S no better time for a team to As a freshman it was hard tojoina new team
peak than during toumamem play and gill Ofltl€Wtg1rlSt,hbUt.0uﬂI;g(t))Ee1lS.f0r'l.l'Ili:)6aS§;11 _d 
The total number of titles that fifth-ranked tennis player We’fe deinglust That” Brewster Said “gl/llilladlls 0g]: Stlaitll E lgllllllllg’ as ehsald'
Nonetheless, the Generals expected t 6 3 lg‘: y nﬁzll p liylllg some Vely al
Rafael Nadal has won after taking the Barcelona Open on GUllf0Fd W0uld notbe defeated easily eilgls la 6 (rlflll C0 eflllcei d d
“They have some very strong attackers _ ul our pe, Olmallce as lmplove an_ we
Sunday and are V60, physical,” Waxter Said _A V [were] all excited to get another opportunity to play ‘
I "They would like nothing more than to   ’ GUllf0Tdf’ Pascale Said-
beat us, the ramming Championsfi . Now, the Generals move on from their hard-
2 Two wecks ago’ the Generals let Last Wednesday, the Generals held their lead . fought  to face the second-seeded Shenandoah
Guilford ﬁnd a way around W&L’s agarrrsr the Lynchburg Homers  rlre ODAC l Hfme“ lllls Saturday‘
defense early, leading to Guilford’s quarterﬁnals r0 Pull Our 3 l3'9 Wrr1- l _lfwe €13: our gzmeblintgailghl folnthe 
The number of W&L student athletes who achieved a Ultimate Vler0rY- The gallle lwedneidalll was absollllely 1 3, B V6 {:0 0-1; we W1 “Wm e
“This time we [were] ready for them and awesome, Waxter said. Our team played well  _ M , I News er 531 - 0

4.0 GPA during the winter term. They are among the
179 student-athletes who earned scholar-athlete ac-

colades by achieving at least a 3.5 for the semester.

“Now we have to go into a hostile
environment and they’re going to be trying
to get it over with. They don't want to come
back here, but we do.”
-BostnrI0elt|c¢uardJasoriTerryafterﬁielrGame4vlehory
Inthooponlngmund ofthe NBAPlqyofrsvarsusthoNew
YbrkKnIclss.ThoKnIcI<swaraIeadIn¢thoserIes3-oonuerlng
thearnoaridwarolooldngforthosweep, butaostnn

prevailed In overumototaletheserlesto NowYork. Boston
hopestnwlnand briruIhoserlesbackhome,fromsI.com

pi‘?

on both sides of the ﬁeld and we really played as a , A, g  T 9‘ g . 
‘ognqreyqaljkeeper Cara Mulligarti‘ after saving 't y
, c

[did] not give up a lead so easily,” Waxter
unit.”

' said.

759
ball f

I H

     

 

 

 

The Generals had succeeded with this
e li ._ hout

.e3.. }r'.A'-._....'.¢

  

W&L shows athletic prowess

Generals ’spring sports all represented in ODAC tournaments

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Five Washington and Lee teams made it
into their respective Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournaments this past week. ,

Leading the way for the Generals is the women’s
tennis team. W&L, ranked 16th in the nation,
took the title over Roanoke in Sunday’s ﬁnal,
5-0. Including this year the Generals have taken
the ODAC title 21 of the past 23 seasons. The
team quickly advanced up to the ﬁnals with a 6-0
win over Guilford and a 5-0 win over Virginia
Wesleyan.

The men’s tennis team made a similarly easy
run to the title match. After defeating both
Hampton-Sydney and Virginia Wesleyan 5-0,
the 23rd ranked and top-seeded Generals faced

The Generals were determined to pull out another
Vwin aganst Lynchburg after def e Hornets I  _ A , _

   

 

Bridgewater. The Generals defeated the Eagles
5-0. ’

Additionally, the women’s lacrosse team has
made it into the title game to be played next
Saturday in Shenandoah. W&L played Lynchburg
at home on Wednesday in a rematch of their close
overtime victory a few weeks earlier. W&L was ’
able to win more comfortably by a score of 13-9.
On Saturday, fourth-seeded W&L traveled to top-
seeded Guilford and earned their trip to the ﬁnals
with a 14-13 victory.

Baseball entered the ODAC tournament as the
fourth-seed alter taking both games of a double-
header with Virginia Wesleyan on the last day of
the regular season. On Saturday in the opening

   
  

sday’s gap: _s_
gnerr .\ ' l

 

  
 
 
 

  

round, the Generals fell to Harnpden-Sydney in
extra innings. The two teams entered extra innings
tied at 4 until the Generals took a 5-4 lead in the
top of the 1 1th inning. The Tigers responded

with two runs of their own to hand the loss to the
Generals.

The men’s lacrosse tournament has yet to start
play, but the 12th-ranked Generals are seeded
third. Tournament play begins for the Generals
when they host sixtli-seed Virginia Wesleyan on
Tuesday. If they win they travel to Lynchburg
on Saturday to face second-seeded Lynchburg
in a rematch oftheir overtime loss a month ago.
Finally, if they are victorious they will play in the
ﬁnals on Sunday in Roanoke.

 

"When I made the decision to walk away, I
wrestled with it long and hard, and I knew
it was ﬁnal. Once I retired, that was it. My
mind is in a different place. Mentally, going
back would have been too hard.”

- Ruurodsan Dlegocharuor Labalnlan Tbmllnson about
bolrt¢aoIodtnrie|oInthe1nam.Heplqyadfor|hocharaors
forrnoetofh|scareorbeI'oreplqylngasaNauYorkJetfor
twoooaoorisﬂoslmedaorio-dqyoonhactwlththocliaruers
ln2009aohocou|d retlrewlth1hom|nslnad,fmmSl.com

Athlete of  

te Week

   

‘Junior attacker Katie Hagen scored six goals
in Washington and Lee's upset of Guilford on

Saturday. She has 27 goals on the season, good
for second on the team.

ondeck

  

Men’s Lacrosse

W&L Women’s~T&F Takes
Second at ODAC Championship

Courtesy of Generals Sports

LEXINGTON, Va. —— The Washington and
Lee women’s track and ﬁeld team totaled a
program record 155 points at the ODAC Outdoor
Track and Field Championship on Saturday at
Wilson Field. The Generals ﬁnished second
behind Roanoke (178.5 points) for the team title.
Lynchburg was third with 125 points.

W&L had three individual titles on Saturday,
to go along with two on Friday, and earned three
individual honors. Junior Annelise Madison
(Roca, Neb./Roca) was named the ODAC/

Farm Bureau Insurance Scholar-Atlilete of the
year. Senior Lauren Schultz (Hopkinton, Mass./
Hopkinton) was named Co—Athlete of the Meet
with senior Carmen Graves of Roanoke. Schultz
won the 3,000m steeplechase on Friday and took
second in the l0,000m. Head Coach Nate Hoey
was honored as the Coach of the Year.

Of the three winners, sophomore Janey Fugate
(Atlanta, Ga/Whiteﬁeld Academy) won the
400H (1204.91) for the second straight year, senior
Marissa Thompson (Chatharn, Va./Chatham)
crossed the ﬁnish line ﬁrst in the 100H (15.39) and
sophomore Jillian Katterhagen (The Woodlands,

Tuesday

Wednesday
at Guilford 7 pm

vs. VaWes 7pm

Texas/The Woodlands) claimed the pole vault
title for the second year in a row with a mark of
3.26m (10’08.25”). All three competitors eamed
First Team Al1—ODAC honors with their ﬁnishes.
Thompson also came in ﬁﬁh in the triple jump
with a mark of 10.33m (33’ 10.75”).

The Generals also took second and third in the
pole vault. First-year Kaela Fiutak (Skaneateles,
N.Y./Skaneateles) was the runner up at 3.16m
(10’04.25”) and junior Alexandra Hagan
(Tampa, F la/H.B. Plant) claimed thud at 3.06m
(l0’00.50”). Fiutak garnered Second Team All-
ODAC honors and Hagan earned Third Team
All-ODAC.

Along with Fugate’s win the 400H, the Blue and
White also placed second and fourth. First-year
Johanna Goeigen (Kinnelon, N.J./Kinnelon)
crossed the ﬁnish line second in 1:05.76, and

l senior Paige Gance (Wilton, Conn./Wilton)

ﬁnished fourth with a time of 1:08.78. Fugate

also scored in the 400m, taking fourth (58.95).

Classmate Sarah Helms (Cummings, Ga./North

Forsyth) ﬁnished sixth in the event at 1:01.13.
In the distance events, W&L had six Top 5

Thursday

 

ﬁnishes on Saturday. In the 800m, Madison took
fourth in 2:20.80. The team had two competitors
place in the 1,500m. Madison ﬁnished third
(4:57.23) and senior Molly Ortiz (Ketchikan,
Alaska/Ketchikan) claimed fourth in 5:00.12.
In the 5,000m, the Blue and White took second,
third and ﬁfth. Ortiz ﬁnished second in 18:20.35,
Madison was third with a time of 18:34.21 and
sophomore Casey Mackintosh (Marietta, Ga]
George Walton) placed ﬁlth in 18:42.53.

W&L had a second and third-place ﬁnish in the
relays.‘ In the 4x 1 00m, the quartet of Thompson,
Katterhagen, junior J ulia Murray (Bridgewater,
N.J/Bridgewater-Raritan) and ﬁrst-year Molly
Ungiady (Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla./The Bolles
School) came in third (50.52). The combo of
junior Lauren Woodie (Blueﬁeld, Va/Graham),
Goergen, Helms and Fugate claimed second in the
4x400m in 4:09.41.

The Generals compete next Saturday, April
27, at the Paul Kaiser Invitational hosted by

Shippensburg.

Saturday

Women’s Lacrosse

at Shenandoah 1 pm

Men’s Tennis

vs Mary Wash.2 pm

Women's Tennis

at Emory 12 pm

vs Mary Wash 12 pm

. Men’s Track

at Clemson

at Clemson

Women’s Track

’ at Liberty Twilight

5 at Duke Twilight

 >

 

