 

 

  
  

A re
%'I‘3*.75S
R55’).
VI (,6
110.15

 

BY THE

insideLO6K

  What did
you do
 last night?

\ You may. actually

be inhibiting

_ ‘your future

’~ 2 career when

,  you go for

; that last
double-shot.

Is the Maker’s

Mark worth it? .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
      

     

  “'2.

Women in chains.
Women across the globe
are still treated in scary

ways. Why should we care
in the Lex bubble? Have
you ever seen “Taken”?

   

Friend us on

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

F acebook with “‘
e9

 

News...2
Opinions...5 '
Arts & Life...6

 

Wednesday
Partly Sunny

 
   

 Partly Sunny



 Saturday
42-.   Partlysunny

 30°-54°

 , Sunday
Rain &Snow

28°-48°

{W4

,,,>-*~»lt4 I Manda?
 "I" V
‘E ’  fr PartlySunny

240_480 V

  
 

 

 

I is

STUDENTS AND

FOR»THE

 

1897

RING-TUM PHI.

STUDENTS SINCE

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 16

national‘

By Andrea Owen
STA F F w R IT E R
National Eating Disorders Awareness

Week, Feb. 24 through March 4, spot- '

lighted an issue especially applicable to
the Washington and Lee community.
On Sunday, March 3, Active Minds
hosted its third annual Eating Disor-
der Panel, a panel of ﬁve students who
shared experiences related to eating

Panel takes steps to decrease etin disorder prevale

pcrson’s life.”

Jan Kaufman, W&L’s Director of
Health Promotion, described the com-
pulsive exercise and restrictive eating
components of disordered eating that
may or may not constitute a full-blown
eating disorder.

     

nee at W&L.

many of the risk factors that contrib-
ute eating disorders-—college age, high

. SES, white, traditional gender roles,”

she said. “I think living and eating in
the sorority house also contributes to the
prevalence of eating disorders.”
Regarding this year’s panel, McCune
described a point that struck her per-

 

disorders. . . .
Although the percentage of W&L Anorexla Bullmla
students who reported diagnosis or 3.0%
treatment of anorexia or bulimia de-
creased from 2010 to 2012, the dis- 25%
orders are still twice as prevalent here
compared to the national average. 0
In addition, junior Madison Mc- 2'0 /0
Cune, the President of Active Minds,
cited some ofthe important things stu- 1.5%
dents should know from the panelists’
discussion: many eating disorders do 1 00/ ‘
. . . o 0
not ﬁt the anorexia/bulimia mold.
“I think it’s important to know
most eating disorders aren’t as simple 0-5%
as that,” she said. “There is a large
spectrum of behaviors that are more gs: N; gy-
complex than just not eating or just $9 Q $9’ Q
throwing up.”
Clinical Psychologist Cliiisty Bar §.‘:.'.°.;;!‘.“tv— .".'."tfl .'t~i.'L‘,?§.'&*;‘§.§§‘l'§$tl'§.HT.-S‘l'Li¥é;$!l%i1'.?é
Oiigaii» who Came on Staff in 2002 .2i‘.?l§'.'I"vl';étl.E::-'.‘ 35221133?! i:2«"/I. '"“"'“‘*"M“‘°°“““l““5°"

sonally.

“One of the things that really
struck ‘me was that social media was
able to have such a negative impact,”
she said, “Online bullying was very
impactful in a negative way....it’s not
just ajoke.”

Barongan described the best thing
to do if someone is concerned a friend
may have an eating disorder.

“I think it‘s best to start by talking
to the person ﬁrst about changes you
have noticed (weight loss, skipping
meals, etc.) and to ask them what‘s
going on,” she said. “Accusing them
of having an eating disorder is not as
helpful, but I wouldn’t get too caught
up in saying it wrong. It is better to say
something than to say nothing at all.”

Barongan said that a concerned
friend may also talk to a school, coun-

because of her expertise in eating
disorders, also emphasized the idea that
many serious eating-related issues may
not ﬁt the category of a traditional eat-
ing disorder. ,

“I would say that most people fall in
the disordered eating range, and this is
just as much of a reason to get help as
having a ‘diagnosable’ condition,” she
said. “Sometimes disordered eating can
become an eating disorder, and even if it
doesn’t, it still affects the quality of the

She also explained why eating disor-
ders maybe more prevalent here.

“I think we have high achieving stu-
dents who are perfectionistic [and that
is] characteristic of people with eating
disorders,” she said.

Dr. Barongan also mentioned some
factors.

“While eating disorders can affect
people ofall ages, SES levels, and races,
the student population at W&L includes

selor to discuss what to do. She added
that the counseling center has pamphlets
with information for students.

McCune accentuated the seriousness
of eating disorders.

“Eating'disorders are very serious,”
she said. -“They often end in death.
They are mental illnesses that for our
age bracket have the highest mortality
rate....[and people] take an average of
seven years to recovery fully.”

‘ A1‘ _‘.. ».a§

Junior Margaret Klein carries the ball upfield against Randolph in the Generals’ first win of the
season. W&L won 16-5 but has otherwise had a slower start to their season than usual.
Story on page 12. Photo courtesy of generalssports.com.

Making a
“major?!
decision  

Sophomores declared.
initial majors on March
1, but changes can be
made

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITJER

Washington and Lee University sopho-
mores recently declared their initial majors
after submitting major declaration forms to
the University Registrar Oﬁfice on March 1.

Though March 1 was the deadline to for-
mally declare an initial major, W&L students
have the flexibility to add or change majors
through January of their senior year, accord-
ing to Scott Dittman of the University Reg-
istrar Office.

The declaration process requires students
to ﬁll out a form listing their major(s) and/
or minors, with signatures from their advi-
sor and the department head for their major.
Students can use this same form when look-
ing to change or add a major or minor, or to
switch advisors.

When students wish to make changes to
preexisting information, they must include
a copy of their “My Proﬁle” page from
WebAdvisor. Dittman said that this allows
the Registrar Ofﬁce to quickly see what ma-

jor the student had previously declared.

“Whenever they turn a new form in, it
completely supplants the previous one so
that we’re only dealing with one form at a
time,” Dittman said. “lt’s a fairly easy pro-
cess as long as you’re thinking ahead.”

The current declaration date has not al-
ways been in place, Dittman said that until
2010, sophomores were not required to de-
clare until the end of the sophomore year.

“Its a liberal arts experi-
ence, so you ’re supposed to
be exploring. You don ’t want
to be looking yourself in. ”
Scott Dittman, University Registrar

“So many people started taking spring
option, going abroad, or a lot of advisors
weren’t here,” Dittman said. “We backed up
[the declaration date] so that we would have
the information ready because sophomores
are often registering for important courses
for majors in the fall of their junior year.”

Dittman said that it is crucial for all of
the departments and the Registrar Oﬂice
to know the number of students per major
well in advance. The number of students per
major is an indication of how many course
sections a department needs to offer to ad-
equately meet student needs. _

“There is a need for the department heads

to know how many people are planning a’

certain major because that affects courses for

the next 4, 5, even 6 terms," Dittman said.v

“They need to start thinking now about how
they’re going to accommodate whatever in-
creases in numbers or decrease in numbers.”

Because of the course planning involved,
this year, students declaring business admin-
istration majors were required to submit their
forms a week earlier than other departments.

"Business Administration Department

Head Professor Robert Ballenger said that
the department pushed up the declaration
date because unlike other departments, the
business administration department also
needs to assign students to advisors.

 

 
 

~ ll. & lEE.UlH¥lilSl

 
    

G%,VA 24455

..E3'm‘»3aI;::

lY

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

MARl420l3

IIGWS

 

V

Spreading the honor

A VMI conference is putting a spotlight on honor

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WR lTER

   

Executive Committee President Steele
Burrow ‘ 13 and Second-Year Law Rep-
resentative of the Executive Committee
David Pelletier participated in the Vir-
ginia Military Institute’s Honor Code
Conference on March 4 and 5.
According to Burrow, the conference
included students from VMI, Washing-
ton and Lee University, Duke Univer-
sity, the Virginia Polytechnic Institute

.5:

and Burrow both participated in that
portion of the conference.

“As a representative from a school
with an honor system, I spoke after one
of the vignettes, explaining how The
Honor System and the White Book Pro-
cedures would have handled the given
situation,” Pelletier said.

During the presentation, Pelletier fo-

cused on the law school, while Burrow ‘

“There are plenty ofhigh s
to be held accountable for

chool students that want

their actions and want

to create a positive community of trust like we have

here at Washington and Lee. ’

I

DAVID PELLETIER, Second-Year Law Representative of the EC

and State University, the U.S. Naval
Academy and several other schools.
Burrow said that the purpose of the
conference was to educate students
about various honor systems.

“[The conference] tried to bring to-
gether college students involved with
their schools’ honor systems or codes
with high school students and leaders
interested in beginning their own,” Bur-
row said.

Burrow said that the college students
explained their honor systems by ex-
amining a variety of casesand showing
how their school would handle such a
case under its honor system. Pelletier

  

 

continued from‘ page 1 ,
“We also have to deal with the fact

Major declaration

discussed the overall importance of the
system. .

“I focused on the traditional role of the
Honor System at W&L since Robert E.
Lee was here in the late l860’s, while
David emphasized the procedures of
honor cases and the unique experience
of the System’s interaction with a law
school,” Burrow said.

Pelletier said that he became involved
in the conference due to his work on the
Executive Committee. The Honor Code
Conference was not the first time he has
worked closely with VMI.

“Earlier this year, The Honor Council
at VMI invited us to lunch at their Cen-

ter for Leadership and Ethics where we
shared our experiences as well as pro-
cedures and policies we follow,” Pelle-
tier said. “It was a great opportunity to
learn how another school handles honor
within its community.”

Following the event at the Center for
Leadership and Ethics, VMI invited
W&L to participate in the Honor Code
Conference. .

One of the most rewarding aspects of
the conference for Pelletier was seeing
how many high school students were
interested in learning about different
honor systems.

“There are plenty of high school
students that want to be held account-
able for their actions and want to cre-
ate a positive community of trust like
we have here at W&L,” Pelletier said.
“That was an empowering thing to hear
and very motivating.”

He added that he was glad to have
the opportunity to talk one-on-one with
many students whose schools didn’t
have an existing honor system. Pelle-
tier said he hoped that his conversations
with those students were helpful to cre-
ating an honor system in the future.

‘Burrow said he hoped that the stu-
dents who were looking to create an
honor system at their school were able
to fully comprehend its advantages.

“I hope they gained a deeper under-
standing of the options before them
and, more crucially, the beneﬁts of hav-
ing an honor system of any kind,” he
said.

systems. around the country

1. THE SCIENCES

 
    

Though Pelletier and Burrow were
responsible for educating many people
about W&L’s honor system, Pelletier
said that he personally learned a lot in
the rocess. He was particularly inter-
ested in other schools’ procedures un-
der their honor systems.

“Leaming how other schools handle
or do not handle conﬁdentiality, for
example, was educational,” Pelletier
said. “The same can be said for inves-
tigations and hearings and trials them-
selves.”

Pelletier said that participating in the
conference allowed him to reﬂect on
W&L’s current honor system. He said
that although conversations reflecting
on the current honor system at W&L
are ongoing, the conference reinforced
that discussion.

“This doesn’t necessarily mean [those
conversations] were about change, al-
though certainly there is room and op-
tion for that,” Pelletier said. “One ofthe
strengths of the way W&L has\created
its Honor System vs Code is its ﬂexibil-
ity and ability to evolve.”

Burrow agreed with Pelletier, say-
ing that he doesn’t foresee any major
changes to the honor system in the near
future.

“I don’t see us implementing any
changes as a result of that conference,
bLIt I did feel that the experience was
valuable,” said Burrow. “Every system
must address the context in which it
exists, academically and socially, and
I think W&L’s is ideal for our school.”

 ‘ll’. if

   

  Wilson
leaves
growing
legacy

By Neil Haggerty
N EWS EDITO R

John‘ D. Wilson, President of Washington
and Lee University during the transition to

 Coeducation, passed away on March 2.

Wilson served as W&L president from I983
to I995. According to an interview with Wil-
son in a 1994 Alumni Magazine, the decision
to go coeducational under Wilson’s leader-
ship in I984 brought emotional responses,
but “contributed to the elevation of the Uni-
versity’s reputation.”

Coeducation was not Wilson’s only contri-
bution to W&L.

Wilson appointed the very inﬂuential John
Elrod as Dean of the College in 1984. Wil-
son’s Presidency also witnessed the renova-
tion of 15 fraternity houses, the introduction
of several academic departments, the open-
ing of the Lenfest Center for the Arts and a
$147 million capital campaign, according to
a press release by Jeff Hanna.

The capital campaign funds helped fund
the construction of the Watson Pavilion, the
Duchossois Tennis Center and the renovation
of the.ScienCe Center, according to the press
release.

The 1994 interview highlighted Wilson’s
avoidance of «political correctness as repre-
sentative of his desire to make W&L a place
of neutrality for perspectives right and left.

  
   
    
    
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
    
  
   
    
  

 

Wilson’s memorial service is on
March 16 in Lee Chapel at 3 p.m.

10.

 

CLASSICS. RELIGIONS,

PHILOSOPHY

2. POLITICS

tion date to the beginning of February to
avoid adding more work for the Regis-
trar’s oﬁ’ice in January.

“If the deadline was Feb. 1, [business
administration majors] wouldn’t have to
have a special separate little process,”
Ballenger said. “And it gives us time to
have our course schedules together before
registration.”

Dittman said that regardless of where
the oﬁicial date to declare a major stands,
the best part about declaring a major at
W&L is that students have the freedom to
make changes without fearing that they
won’t graduate within four years.

“It’s a liberal arts experience, so you’re
supposed to be exploring. You don’t want
to be locking yourself in,” Dittman said.

that a lot of those people have not had a
business professor,” Ballenger said. “We
have to spread all of the workload out to
all of the advisors so that the workload is
evenly distributed.”

Ballenger also said that he anticipates
the entire Williams School will move up
its major declaration deadline next year.

“There has been a signiﬁcant increase
in business, accounting, and econom-
ics majors and we want to make sure we
have enough spots for everybody,” he
said. “We’re trying to take the guesswork
out of it.”

Both Dittman and Ballenger said there
has been talk of making the declaration
date even earlier for all W&L students.
However, Dittman said the issue is that
the Registrar Office is quite busy in Janu-
ary.

“Backing it up into January, which
is already so full of stuff - we’re doing
spring registration in January; it’s nuts,”
Dittman said. “But that would help the
faculty make better plans when we ask_
them in mid-February, ‘How much are . .
you going to teach in the fall?”’

Ballenger said that one possibility for
the future is to move the major declara-

, 11. HISTORY

'3. BUSINESS ADMIN .
12. PSYCHOLOGY
4. SHEPHERD POVERTY
PROGRAM 13. JOURNALISM & MASS

COMMUNICATIONS

9‘

ECONOMICS
14. MATH

9"

ENGLISH

15. THE ARTS
FOREIGN LANGUAGES
16. FOREIGN CULTURE
STUDIES

2“

. ACCOUNTING

W
"
J
W
'-é
A
—
E
“
A:
L‘-"'
j

5'’

ART HISTORY 17. SOCIAL SCIENCES

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI» -4

 

news  

 

By Hannah Howard
STAFF warren

’ The face of
. ADVERSITY

. The global ﬁght for women is rights rages on

Friday marked the occasion of Inter-
national Women’s Day.

Although diﬁerent forms ‘of this
day have been observed since the early
1900s, it was not until the 2000s that an
official, annual day was set. Intemation-
al Women’s Day serves to celebrate the
accomplishments of women through the
years and the obstacles that they have
overcome.

At the same time, it reminds citizens
across the globe of the struggles that
many women still endure and also pro-
motes women’s rights. Although many
believe that all the battles for women
have been won, it is clear in many areas
of the globe that this assumption is far
from the truth.

In light of this day, it is important to
bring to light the reality of many situa-
tions where women ﬁnd themselves in
crisis.

“In crisis areas, it is often women
and children who suffer the most,” ac-
cording to reports by the Pulitzer Cen-
ter. “Countries with underdeveloped
economies and countries at-war face
countless diﬂiculties, but stories of the
particular misery faced by women and
children are often overlooked — result-
ing in far-reaching human, social and
economic consequences.”

Everyday, women across the globe
are subject to various rights violations
and suffering that often goes unnoticed
or unaddressed.

Alise Sochaczewski, a psychothera-
pist from Los Angeles, said to the‘Los
Angeles Times during a march for In-
ternational Women’s Day, “Women live
in poverty around the world. They also
bear the brunt of wars that men start,
and it needs to stop.”

DISCRIMINATION

The most common example of dis-
crimination against women that people
report is in the economic sector.

The Guardian reported that it is gen-
erally accepted by many professional
women that they will have to work
harder than a man of equal capability in
order to be given the same amount of
respect.

However, there are cases of discrim-
ination that carry with them even heavi-
er repercussions. In Lebanon, only men
are allowed to pass down citizenship.

Greg Constantine of the Pulitzer
Center said, “The inability of a Leba-
nese woman to pass on her citizenship is

seen by many women as a gross viola- ’

tion of a fundamental right that in many
ways thwarts almost any progress the
country has made related to the ‘equal-
ity’ of women.”

If a Lebanese woman marries a man
from another country or a man who has
stateless status (lack of citizenship pa-
pers) then their children, despite being
bom in Lebanon and having a Lebanese
mother, will have no claim to citizen-
ship.

Amal, a woman interviewed by Con-
stantine who is married to a stateless
man, said: “I feel lost and with so much
pain it is killing me. I can’t do anything
for my children. I am Lebanese of a
Lebanese father and I can’t do anything
for my husband and for my children.”

This discrimination perpetuates
statelessness in future generations and
creates more people who have no na-
tional claim. This increases general un-
rest and instability within a state.

SEGREGATION

A young girl just
reaching maturity is ban-
ished from her home and
sent to live for a week in
a shack, exposed to in-
numerable dangers. In
a ritual called chaupadi
that is still common in
Nepal, girls are'segre-
gated while menstruat-
ing. They are consid-
ered impure because of
biological factors over
which they have no con-
trol.

Allison Shelley and
Allyn Gaestel, a pho-
tographer and writer,
respectively, who have
studied the issue, said: “They are not
allowed to touch kitchen utensils, share
the same water source, go to school, or
sleep inside the home during their pe-
riods. Instead, they sleep in huts, ani-
mal sheds, caves or even in the open.
Women and children have died from
exposure, burning or animal attacks, all
while practicing chaupadi.”

Cultural traditions keep this ritual
strong even in modem times. These
small villages do not have access to
the medical knowledge that could save
these women. In addition, many indi-
viduals who practice chaupadi believe
the gods will punish them ifthey do not
adhere to it.

This continued tradition of segrega-
tion is stirring outrage in many people.
Laxmi Bhul, who was interviewed by
the Global Press Institute, said, “I am

Sharba.t7Gul_,a,, Afg
Middle E851" -

frightened to stay here alone. Mother
will not let me in the house and the local
women will not let me use the nearby
[water] tap. I wish nobody would be
born a daughter.”

The Nepali activist Dhurbar Sunar
said, “I think this is a social crime in
terms of women’s rights.”

Sunar is in leadership at Samabikas,
an organization working to end chau-
padi in Nepal. Unfortunately, their work
is incredibly difﬁcult because, accord-
ing to the Global Press Institute, many
women have been brought up to believe
that this practice is right and necessary.

RAPE
Globally, one in three women and
girls will be beaten or sexualiy abused

 
 
    
      
  
   
   
 
 

 ‘United K

V we

 &ia|d.Government Action

.3 bill intendé todi1n_inishviolence‘against women has been put up before
P A  alﬁlgssembly, jbut»-at conservative religious group is opposing

equire ppro_vaI.from al‘l four provinces before it can gointo effect.

“ ' dom isﬂleading aUN Commission on the Status of Wom-

lobalﬂinitiatives to end all violence against women glob- .

” sediinelanuaryiin Morocco that nulliﬁes the previous law, which
 the raw if the perpetrator married the victim.
 series of tough--new laws to end sexual violence in re- I ,,
 ibrufta  irape ofawoman in December.
F the Vidlence Against Women Act on Thursday.
 ovemment will approach survivors and per- ~

 efugee, beca

in their lifetime.

Reports of violence against women
have increased in recent months in
places such as India and various Afri-
can countries. This is evidenced by the
high proﬁle coverage of the gang rape
in New Delhi, the kidnappings in Paki-
stan, and the protests sweeping multiple
countries.

New legislation is in the works in
many countries such as India and Mo-
rocco. However, it still isn’t enough.
Reporting can still be minimal in some
places and attempts to prosecute are of-
ten ineffective.

A report by the Physicians for Hu-
man Rights read: “Every year, sexual
violence is used against tens of thou-
sands of women and girls during and
after armed conflict. And all too often,
those who commit the violence will
never be accused, they will never be ar-
rested, and they will never stand trial or
even face a ﬁne.” '

Reporters at the Pulitzer Center gave
an example: “Few Pakistani media
outlets carry the stories and no demon-
strations have been held. Even if rape
in Pakistan received the same kind of
attention, however, ﬁnding justice for
crimes of sexual violence can be an ex-
tremely arduous task.”

Women are victimized by rape in ev-
ery comer of the globe, especially in ar-
eas ripped apart by war. Wherever war
goes, increased rape statistics follow.

“Armed groups use rape to spread
disease, and wreck or uproot commu-
nities, with shame turning victims into
outcasts,” said the Pulitzer Center.

Currently, this problem is particu-

larly prevalent in Africa. Author Jeremy
Rosen said, “Rape is endemic in Africa
and female mutilation is widespread.”

The United Nations estimates that

over 200,000 women have been raped
in the Democratic Republic of the Con-
go.
Solange Furaha, Executive Secre-
tary of South Kivu Congolese Women’s
Caucus for Peace, said, “Sexual vio-
lence is continuing to tear people, fami-
lies, and communities apart... Leaders
must be accountable to the women and
girls ofAfrica.”

The problem is not only in Africa and
the Middle East. Women continue to be
attacked in the drug wars in Mexico.
Rape happens every day on the streets
of fully developed, ﬁrst-world coun-
tries. The problem is not going away.

TRAFFICKING

Human trafﬁcking is just as promi-
nent as it always has been. Everyday
more girls leave their homes for the
promise of a job that will help them
support their families only to ﬁnd that
they have become slaves. Still others
are kidnapped. Some are even sold by
their friends or families.

Statistics released by the State De-
partment in 2010 estimated that 12,000
Nepali women were trafﬁcked to Indian
brothels alone. This number has, of
course, only risen.

Reports from the Pulitzer Center

stated, “Once they get to India there is
little help available for them. Most are
hundreds of miles from home and in ter-
rifying surroundings. They often don’t
speak Hindi, the main language in In-
dia. Many reports have noted that the
Indian police are often in cahoots with
the brothels, making it almost impos-
sible for girls to get out.”

Trafﬁcking is continuing in India as
more locals are being targeted as well.
Villages on the banks of the Brahma-
putra River are often destroyed during
the rainy season as the river drastically
ﬂoods. Many die while others have their
livelihoods washed away. During this
desperate time, women go missing.

Journalist Carl Gierstorfer said,
“Traﬁﬁckers have identiﬁed their vul-
nerable situation and lure them with
promises of a better life in Delhi. Some
of the women are outright kidnapped
and sold as brides or prostitutes.”

The demand for trafﬁcked women
has not diminished and little is being
done to stop it. As such, many think the
outlook is rather bleak for these women.

These are just a few of the issues
that women across all nations face ev-
ery day. Some areas of the world are
indeed hit harder by these than others,
but it is an international crisis. Though
it may seem like these problems are far
removed from students and everyday
life, they surround everyone.

Women are in crisis. Raising aware-
ness through Observances such as Inter-
national Women’s Day is merely a small
step towards further progress and end-
ing gender violations globally.

g _  tlge world’s most, recognized female of the war-to
‘ n her  A ture graced the cover of National Geographic in 1985.

Closer
to
home

’’I’m not educated about
women’s issues on the
international scale but I wish
I was,” said ﬁrst-year Sarah
Knenleih. ”People need to
know what's going on so it's
definitely something the
campus needs some buzz

about."

The ﬁrst step to realizing
that this is a global problem
is to see the seriousness of it
locally, as well. Knenlein may
not know much about the
international issues, but as

a SPEAK member she works ’

to educate students about
rape and assault on campus.
SPEAK is an organization of
female students who work
to empower women in the
W&L community to speak
out against rape and the
mistreatment of women.
"This crisis is prominent,
but a lot of women aren't
comfortable talking about

' it,” Knenlein said. ”We know

it's happening. We know it's
a problem and we know it
needs to stop. Sadly, nothing
can change if people don't
address it.”
Students on the W&L
campus can take a step
towards change this month
by participating in Speak
Week. Speak Week (March
25-28) keeps the spirit of
International Women’s Day
alive by reminding people to
be aware of women’s issues
and encouraging them to
talk about the problems.
The week culminates with
Take Back the Night, an
event held on March 28
that gives sexual assault
survivors a forum for their
voices to be heard.
Knenlein added:”We want
people to become more
comfortable talking about
this Crisis. It's everywhere
and it's not going away until
we recognize its presence
and push for change.”

 

Twitter @berkysfood

I ‘gezéa/a MIIBE lll

"Hands Down the T‘astiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin_11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

,Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

l-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450 I

540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online .

 Find us on Face book

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

 

  

/‘ A

‘ /

New ApPE

The campus recreation and PE departments merged this term

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER »

Campus Recreation is getting a
new look.

The Physical Education Depart-
ment merged with the Office of
Campus Recreation in an attempt to
create a campus-wide, over-arching
recreation department within Wash-
ington and Lee University starting
this term.

The new department is called Phys-
ical Education, Athletics, and Rec-
reation and will be led by Athletic
Director Jan Hathom. It will include
physical education classes, varsity
athletics, intramural and club sports
and group exercise.

The new change is mainly due to
convenience for everyone involved
in the two merging departments, due
to the fact that Campus Recreation
can only use the ‘Physical Educa-
tion facilities _and because the two
work so closely together, according
to Associate Athletic Director Shana
Levine.

When discussing the long list of
advantages of the two departments

_merging, both Levine and former

head of Campus Recreation Ray El-
lington said it will make the budget
for recreation more effective.

Campus Recreation was formerly
a part of the Student Affairs depart-
ment at the school and would often
use the Physical Education equip-
ment and facilities for intramural and
club sports and for group exercise.
Now Campus Recreation is in the
Warner Complex, communication
and budget coordination with the PE
department should be more efﬁcient.

Another change to the department
is to have a focus group generate a
“Campus Recreation Task Force”
that will work to create a better
schedule for group exercise as well
as implementing ‘more ‘W&L-ap-
proved activities.

“The focus group will be represen-
tative of the entire campus, fratemi-

ARance

ties, sororities, and people who live
in residence halls,” Ellington said.
“We want to improve campus recre-
ations for everyone.”

The group will meet as a whole
twice a year in order to discuss the
state of the department as a whole,
but there will be more frequent “sub-
groups” that will be more focused on
certain activities and trying to im-
prove only those activities.

“With this transition, it’s a good
time to change,” said Levine.

This is exactly what Ellington is
trying to do with the focus group:
to change campus recreation for the
better across the entire W&L com-
munity.

Ellington will be recruiting stu-
dents across the campus soon in or-
der to create the Campus Recreation
Task Force. If you are interested in
becoming a member of the group,
send an email to sellington@wlu.
edu.

 

May 28—JulIe 20., 2013

‘i

 Earn four college credits*

urban university in Greenwich Vill
- Network with top professionals
Collaborate with peers

R *Check with youricollege to see if credits are transferable.

‘iii

K  ..

INTENSIVES

:. An affirmative action/ equal opportunity institution. Photo: Matthew Suss‘

  

 iv‘ 4 -

Four-week Courses and Workshops
in'Dance, Environmental Studies, '
Film Production, and Writing A‘

6

i‘  - Study at The New Schoo|—a legendary

age .

 
  

    

 

WASHINGTON AND in UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS-EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise Independent.THE
RING-TUM PHI welcomes’a|| letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
' FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADC‘OCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
ANDREA OWEN
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

MONICA DEVLIN
KRISTINA SEON

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

  PBl{ISociety of the
Cincinnati Convocation

Adjusted Schedule
Thursday, March 14

Normal class times
8:00am—8:55am
8:00am-10:00am
8:35am-10:00am
9:05am-10:00am
10:1 Oam-1 1:05am
10:10am-11:35am
10:10am-12:10pm
11:15am-12:10pm
11:50am-1:15pm
12:20pm-1:15pm
12:20pm-2:20pm
1:25pm-2:20pm
1:25pm-2:50pm

1:25pm-4:30pm
2:30pm-3:25pm
2:30pm—4:30pm
3:00pm-4:25pm
3:35pm-4:30pm
4:40pm-5:35pm

Adjusted Class Time
8:00am-8:45am
8:00am-9:40am
8:35am-9:25am
8:55am-9:40am
9:50am—10:35am
9:45am-10:35am
9:50am-11:30am
10:45am-11:30am
10:45am-11:35am
1:10pm-1:55pm
1:10pm-2:50pm
2:05pm-2:50pm
2:05pm-2:55pm
2:05pm-4:30pm
3:00pm-3:45pm
3:00pm-4:40pm
3:05pm-3:55pm
3:55pm-4:40pm
4:50pm-5:35pm

Laboratories and Studio classes
8:00am-12:10pm 8:00am-11:30am
8:35am-11:40am 8:35am-11:30am
1:25pm-4:30pm 2:05pm-4:30pm
1:25pm-5:35pm 2:05pm-5:35pm

Are you

an ally?

Virginia Colleges
Equality Symposium
challenges students
to support LGBT

By Leigh Dannhauser
STAFF WRITER

“We’re locked in a civil rights battle,
right now,” Marcia “Ma” Purdy told
the audience at the 2nd annual Virginia
Colleges Equality Symposium and

‘Gala held here at Washington and Lee

University on Saturday.

Purdy’s speech, titled “Ally Devel-
opment: l’m Out Too” was geared to-
wards how important allies are to the
LGBT community. ‘

Purdy, herself an ally, told her per-
sonal story about living in a time of
mass discrimination and homophobia.

It is still an issue, Purdy said, be-
cause people are bystanders instead of
upstanders.

“People just don’t know how to start
helping,” explained Purdy. “They
don’t have the tools.” ,.

But, there are many ways that peo-
ple can make a difference, even on a
campus-wide scale. One of the biggest
things that Purdy stressed was general
support.

She mentioned Lavender Gradua-
tion, which is where members of the
community and their allies walk at a
separation graduation and support one
another.

“Sometimes there is nobody cel-
ebrating that event in an individual’s
life so as an ally show up and celebrate
and be there,” Purdy explained.

Although the community has made
much ground in the civil rights battle,
there is still a good distance to go to
achieve true equality.

At the end Purdy reminded everyone
how important the ally is to the com-
munity. “The voice of an ally LGBTQ
provides people great relief, because it
reminds us that we do not have to ﬁght
this alone.”

 

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11,2013

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

opinions

A The real Value of a scholarship

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

This past week, a little over 180
eager and nervous high school seniors
ﬁocked to our campus to win one of a
limited number of merit scholarships.
The Johnson Scholarship, introduced af-
ter a donation of$l0O million was made
(anonymously at ﬁrst) by Mr. Johnson,
provides around ten percent of every in-
coming class with full-rides.

That is a lot of money. More impor-
tantly- that is the potential for a lot of
possibility. When the ﬁnalists come to
campus,’ we are getting a taste of the fu-
ture- a sampling of what could be. Con-
sidering that 67 percent of the class of
2016 applied for a Johnson scholarship,
it seems that a lot of students want that
opportunity.

Even so, it seems that animosity sur-
rounds the winners when they matricu-
late. It is much like beginning a demo-
cratic government system in a recently
war-tom country: everyone wants the
power, but the winner always seems to
be the ﬁrst ridiculed and blamed.

But why? Do we like to villainize
the ‘winners or are we harboring a seri-
ous jealousy issue? The scholars are not
chosen out of a hat- and all are deserving

of almost a quarter million dollars (this,

year, the ﬁnalists’ average ACT score

was a 34). To better paint the picture,
professors and current Johnson scholars
perform the interviews and help to se-
lect the winners. I would happily place
the future of millions of dollars in the
hands of our professors and students
for one reason: our community is built
on the idea of intellectual and personal
growth.

All students are beneﬁciaries of
our campus’ environment--receiving a
scholarship does not take away from our
General state-of-being (pun intended),
but it allows students the ability to grow
here. The Johnson scholarship’s purpose
is to bring in the smartest students, but
more so—-the most promising. Winning
a scholarship means that those in our
microcosm of higher education chose a
ﬁnalist because they bring so much to
the table.

Not winning does seem discourag-
ing. But regardless of the scholarship,
being here is like winning the lottery
anyway. Without the whole of our
school, the intellectual prowess would
be lost, and the opportunity for commu-
nity building would disappear. We are
all the future. As a whole, the possibili-
ties for our future are endless.

Instead of creating such an environ-

ment of animosity and jealousy, we can
only thank each other. Without the pres-
ence of myriad types of students, we
would not be able to experience all that
Washington and Lee University can of-
fer. This does not mean that we should
raise statues of our winners, but that we

should remember that we are all stu-
dents, we are all adding to the wonderful
environment that is, at its foundation, a
stepping stone for our futures.

Yes, at times we can be a little jeal-
ous of the seemingly “lucky” scholar-
ship winners (it is only fair, we are hu-

man). But without all of us here, our
world would never grow. So what am
I trying to say? We are all winners- the
money has nothing to do with it.

Drone program striking out

The governments attempts to prevent terrorism threaten the liberty of American citizens

By Yates Wilburn
s TA F F w R I T E R

During the ongoing conﬁrmation
hearings for President Obama’s nomi-
nation for CIA Director John ‘Brennon,
senators involved asked some pretty
awkward questions regarding the U.S.
drone strike program. The questions
ranged from its effectiveness and preva-
lence, to its legality under the U.S. Con-
stitution. Now, the main focus of politi-
cal and media attention didn’t so much
revolve around the use of drones on sus-
pected terrorists, but rather around their
use on U.S. citizens suspected of terror-
ism. The increasing use of these drones
overseas and at home when combined
with the Patriot Act and the President’s
authorization of indeﬁnite detention of
U.S. citizens by the military last year
combine to create a unsettling situation
regarding the state of our civil liberties.

The source of these questions can
trace their genesis back to the use of
drones to track and kill U.S. citizen An-
war al-Awlaki in Yemen back in 2011.
Readers will remember that Mr. al-Aw-
laki was, at the time, serving as al-Qa-
eda’s spokesman in the Arabian Penin-
sula. The reason senators have seen ﬁt to
bring this issue under scrutiny now has a
lot to do with the fact that Mr. Brennon
was and is a key player in the develop-
ment, deployment, and use of America’s
drone program overseas, as well as at
home. As a justiﬁcation for the use of
the program, President Obama stated,
“we conduct these drone strikes because
they are necessary to mitigate ongoing
actual threats, to stop plots, to prevent
future attacks, and to save American
lives. These strikes are legal, they are
ethical, and they are wise.” Neither the
President nor Mr. Brennon have made
clear the exact legal or ethical criteria
used in their assessment.

Also left unexplained is the legal jus-
tiﬁcation for violating a U.S. citizen’s

right to a fair trial on the mere suspicion
of terrorist activity. While Mr.‘ al-Awlaki
was ce1tainly—from all available evi-
dence-a violent terrorist, he was still
a U.S. citizen, and therefore entitled to
a lawyer, a trial in a court of law, and
his 5th Amendment liberties. When he
was killed on the President’s order, he
was robbed of those liberties simply be-
cause one man (the President) ordered
it so. According to House. Intelligence
Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-
MI) however, there is “plenty of over-
sight” on the drone program. He states
that as a chairman of his committee, he
conducts monthly reviews of the CIA,
and is “aware and part of those discus-
sions” regarding the targeted killings.
What he seems to have failed to men-
tion is what he is able to do as a member
of the House of Representatives to stop
a drone strike on someone he feels is be-
ing falsely accused. ‘ -
Still, the increased use of drone

against suspected terrorists overseas,
even one that is an American citizen,
is not what worries me. I highly doubt
that this administration would make the
jump to using such methods domesti-
cally, or even west of Libya. What wor-
ries me is what future administrations
may do with the precedent being set by
this program, those set by the Patriot
Act, and the implications of President
Obama’s signing of the 2012 National
Defense Authorization Act.

As readers may know, the Patriot _

Act (enacted in early 2002 and reautho-
rized three times since) allows the U.S.
government to do several things that are
constitutionally questionable at the very
best (from The American Civil Liberties
Union):

° Access citizens’ ﬁnancial records,
phone records, medical history, intemet

activity, travel patterns, and other infor-
mation held by a third party without the
traditional requirements of: A

0 Evidence that the target of a search
is an “agent of a foreign power”

0 Reasonable suspicion that target
materials are related to criminal activity

0 A search warrant or even approval
from a judge

- Engage in surveillance based on
a citizen’s First Amendment activities
such as intemet activity, book purchas-
es, or letters to the editor (that probably
covers this very article)

° Conduct (secret) physical searches
and wiretaps to obtain evidence of a
crime without proving probable cause
as the Fourth Amendment requires

This boils down to the FBI having
the power to completely sidestep ju-
dicial oversight by simply uttering the
phrase “terrorist suspect.” I

Even still, this is not enough to wor-
ry me. There are several cases working
their way through the U.S. court sys-
tem that will eventually make it to the
Supreme Court where even the most
inadequate justice will call the Patriot
Act unconstitutional. The law that truly
unsettles me, the one that could make
the drone program and the Patriot Act
truly frightening, is the 2012 National
Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).

In 2011, President Obama signed the
NDAA into law as he has done every
year of his Presidency, specifying the
budget expenditures for the Department
of Defense, and allowing Congress to
engage in oversight of the Department
of Defense. Typically, these yearly bills
carry a few other provisions regarding
defense, but raise few eyebrows due
to their routine nature and the fact that
they’ve never really been used for any-
thing but budget allocation. However,

that year’s NDAA carried a very unique
provision stating that the President has
the authority to “use all necessary and
appropriate force” to detain “covered
persons” “under the law of war without
trial until the end of hostilities.” What
are “covered persons”? The act deﬁnes
“covered persons” as:

1. “A person who planned, autho-
rized, committed, or aided the terrorist
attacks on September 11, 2001, or har-
bored those responsible for the attacks.”

2. “A person who was a part of or
substantially supported al-Qaeda, the
Taliban, or associated forces that are
engaged in hostilities against the United
States or its coalition partners, including
any person who has committed a bellig-
erent act or has directly supported such

hostilities in aid of such enemy forces.”

Sound unfamiliar? Don’t feel bad;
the U.S. media completely missed this
incredible violation of the U.S. Consti-
tution without so much as a questioning
glance. This complete lack of joumalis-
tic diligence came even as the President
himself—~just before promptly signing it
anyway—said he had “serious reserva-
tions with certain provisions” of the bill.
Regardless, upon signing this incredible
affront to our civil liberties, he had the
nerve to attempt to placate what little
outcry there was by simply promising
not to use the greatest legal trump card
given to a President since the phrase
“executive privilege.” I apologize if I
sound cynical; I simply have an exten-
sive record of Obama’s broken promises
to work from, like his promises to:

° Close Guantanamo Bay-BROKEN

- Clarify the legal status for defense
contractor personnel-BROKEN

° Stop circumventing the Geneva

Convention in America’s handling of
war detainees—BROKEN

- Stop prosecuting citizens using,
growing, and/or distributing medical
marijuana in “clear and unambiguous
compliance of state law.”-BROKEN

° Never use signing statements and
executive orders to circumvent legisla-
tion signed into law-BROKEN

Disregarding the human rights is-
sues against non-U.S. citizens con-
tained in this language, nowhere in this
or any other language of the rest of the
NDAA does it exempt US citizens from
this treatment. This act authorizes the
President to detain any U.S. citizen sus-
pected of terrorism without a lawyer or

trial until the “end of hostilities.” What '

does “end of hostilities” even mean in
the conﬂict our country ﬁnds itself in?
When the U.S. military and her allies
leave Afghanistan? When radical Islam
no longer inhabits the thoughts of any-
one on Earth? When no one on Earth
ever gets frustrated enough to pick up
a gun and try to depose an American-
supported dictatorship under the guise

of a religious motivation? l’ll tell you I

when: whenever the U.S. government
says it’s over.

By using the Patriot Act, NDAA, and
drone program, future presidents will be
able tohave the FBI tap the phone of a
political blogger with a less than favor-
able opinion of the President, shouting
‘‘national security” right past the judge’s
otﬁce. Then, he can send the National
Guard to his house, have him arrested,
and keep him in jail without charging
the blogger until the “end of hostilities.”

« Or, if for some reason he can’t ﬁnd the

blogger, he can just have him killed with
a drone strike and call him a terrorist to
answer any awkward questions from a
news media that gets easier and easier to
fool every time.

 

  
 

MONDAY, MARCH 11,2013 , 6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

arts&|ife -

  #Tﬁio[0e5Somj'-‘1/om

Editor-in—Cfiief

 

Design Editor

Wondering why the paper looks so different this week?

Washington and Lee University’s own Ring-tum Phi recently went to San Francisco, California for
a national college newspaper conference, where we met more than ﬁfty editorial staffs from around the

j_  country. It was awesome. And thanks to the Journalism School and Career Services, we could afford
' to go. That’s the beauty of a school like W&L. There’s always a way to go.

' Here’s the run-down of what happened: We ﬂew in on Wednesday night, and had all day Thurs-
day to explore. We walked almost sixty blocks from the Fisherrnan’s Wharf down to Chinatown. We
ate brunch with the sea lions of the Wharf, lunch with some hipsters in Little Italy, and dinner in the
sketchy basement of a steaming Chinatown alley. ‘

Alright, that last one deserves an explanation, as it was my favorite memory from the trip. After a
long day of exploring the city and gallivanting up and down the hills, we found ourselves deliriously
in the middle of Chinatown. We had asked the concierge at the hotel for a dinner recommendation, but

' 1" all the places he gave us were sterile and generic and, well...safe. Being the adventurous types, we
asked one of the clerks in a souvenirs bazaar where her favorite place to get “cheap and good” food
was. Her immediate response was, “Are you okay with basement food?” We were onto something here. She pointed us in the direction of
a dark alley with steam rising from the sewer vents. The smallest possible doorway and staircase led us to an incandescent basement ﬁlled
with locals and menus in solid blocks of Chinese. When the food arrived, it‘ was stacked in front of us in mountains of plates the size of small
countries. We were all ﬁt to burst in approximately twelve minutes, and the total bill per person came to less than ten dollars. The moral of
the story is to say yes to basement food. .

Friday and Saturday were packed with journalism and newspaper design from 9 am to 5 pm, and then homework after dinner (we are
W&L students after all). Sunday was a zero dark thirty flight back to the east coast. Look forward to watching our metamorphosis for the rest
of this year and even bigger changes for next year. Between the ﬁve of us, we are stuffed with every possible new story idea, design element,
and angle to cover. [Teaser alert: there is a real website on the very close horizon]. So enjoy browsing our trip to San Francisco, and all the
incredible things we learned! ’

fbifia. Lang

When I look back on our trip to San
Francisco, there are so many memorable
moments that come to mind; whether it
be exploring Fisherrnan’s Wharf, delving .
into Cynthia’s cultural roots in Chinatown,
or nearly being hit by a riding crop in a
lecture (I know this sounds weird, but the
Professor preferred riding crops to point-
ers), there was never a dull moment during
the conference.

One highlight of the trip was venturing
to Coit Tower on our day off from the con-
ference. Our journey to the tower began
in Fisherman’s Wharf. where we noticed
the tower off in the distance and decided
to check out its view; little did we know,
we were in for quite a hike. Starting out
at sea level, we were soon in the midst of ‘
the infamous hills of San Francisco. Leigh
(our track star), of course, was in the lead,
sprinting up the hills, while the rest of us
were huﬁing and puffing behind her. Al-
though the walk proved to be a “steep”
challenge, it was deﬁnitely worth the spec-
tacular view. It is hard to beat a view of
San Francisco Bay with the Golden Gate
Bridge in the distance!

After exploring all day on Thursday,
we had the pleasure of attending the As-
sociated College Press Conference. There .
were so many incredible professors and
professional journalists that attended the
conference and shared their personal ad-
vice with all of us. Although I could prob-
ably write a novel ﬁlled with all of the
information I gathered during the two-day
conference, the main tip I came away with
is to not be afraid to stir the pot. Start a

Juficinna Scitterfy

Opinions Tditor

3-» r‘: » . ’ . "- 1 ‘- When the idea ofgoing to San Fran-
 5 - ’ cisco to attend a convention ﬁrst came
up, it seemed like the kind of thing that

would be fun to think about but would

never actually happen. San Francisco,

" lapart from being clear across the coun-

 try, seemed like much too large a place

 for the editors of our little W&L news-
‘I

paper.

So when it became clear that we
 were, in fact, going to this convention, I
3 i couldn’t help but worry about what was

going to happen once we got there. It

Cyntfiia Lam
ﬂlflie We iss

    

Trsay mornig. Instead of sitting in  I i I  Wasnil “mil We were Wmewhere OVCT . .

. . . ‘ , - - - c t e ! J 1 t ed
class and funously scnbblmg notes from V Keontucky that my nerves gave way to excitement. Here we were, flying into t(‘)"“)‘:‘:l‘£)(:lSli'pic‘1’(‘::;at11]Sen‘sa1j§eIﬁsutgulgpooiot J.
the chalkboard, I was standing smack dab 70 weather, towards the home ofthe Golden Gate Bridge, cable cars, and (‘ﬁi.1— t V f rt‘ le I t b . _t .;;, .
on the Bay Bridge, right in the heart of San gers crossed) an actual Sta’rbucks. I couldn’t have asked for a better California 5 ray 3W3)’ mm 3“ 3 10 I115 3031156 1

might start a debate: these sorts of articles
are what draw readers’ attention and keep
them on their toes. .

This is one of the many things that
the Ring-tum Phi hopes to work on over
the course of the semester. Thanks to the
J-School and to the speakers at the con- ‘ *
ference, we will be revamping the Phi as
we move forward in the hope that these
changes bring us a stronger following of
student readers.

Francisco’ Calif_ The Salty Scent of Seawater experience than Thursday, when we spent the entire day roaming various piers,
shopping at Fisherman’s Wharf, and soaking up the west coast sunlight. My
favorite moment was when we kicked off our shoes and sat dockside, enjoying
the fact that we were thousands of miles away from classes while the Paciﬁc
Ocean rose and fell across our ankles.

This isn’t to say that I didn’t learn a truly inspiring amount of information
about journalism“; we all came back bursting with ideas about how we could
improve what no longer seemed to be such a little newspaper. But the most
important thing I learned out there was to embrace the scary opportunities.
They’re usually the ones that take your breath away.

wafted in the air as the waves lapped softly
against the pier. Never have I felt more at
peace. There I was, thousands of miles away
from campus, gazing out at one of the most
breathtaking sights in the world - and this
wasjust the beginning. I
These ﬁve days opened my eyes to a myr-
iad of amazing experiences, from the beauty
of San Francisco to the inspiration presented
in the conference. Throughout the weekend,
I gleaned so many different ideas from the
, speakers, workshops, and fellow journalists
there. Attending “Sex, on Deadline: Cover-
ing Campus Love, Lust, and Every Kink in
Between” was one of my favorite moments,
because it showed me aworld of possibil-
ity pn what could be covered in the news-
paper. Seeing what other publications have
done, and the incredible impact those stories
have had on campus, inspired meto bring the
same sort of in—depth coverage and excite-
ment to the Phi (coming soon: a love, rela-
"-1rl1'O'IliSI'1lpS, and sex columnl). After all, jour-
 Vlismis about taking risks and reporting the
I truth, and that’s exactly what we aim to do.
Going to this conference was deﬁnitely
one of the highlights of my semester! It
 would not have been possible without the
generosity of the journalism department and
the dedication of our devoted Phi readers.
~ Never would I have imagined that I would
be standing on the Bay Bridge on asunny

  
   

Sports Z-fcfitor
’ V, j  - ’  The Ring-tum Phi’s editorial staff trip to San Francisco was the experience of a lifetime. I was
able to learn so much about joumalism, about the city, and even about myself. The extended week-
end was packed with catching the sights and going to journalism sessions, and of course I could not
forget to do my track workouts.
When I entered the ballroom for the ﬁrst keynote speaker I was unsure of what to expect. Would
I have already have heard all of this from my journalism professors here at Washington and Lee or
would I learn a ton of new information that I wish thatlhad leamed before I was a junior?‘ Was it
going to be worth missing two days of classes to attend acollege newspaper conference?
- if  es, yes and yes. The truth is that I have heard some of whatyyaas disgugssed before
7 . in Reid Hall; But I3-—also‘I83“?€d many new things. In Reid Hall I knew how to be*":i"l5etté“ii‘1‘éspoi;t,eij,,,....< is 
At this conference I leamedihiow’-ti;_be a_ better editor. Overall I learned many very important les-
sons. I learned to trust my interests. If I soiriething isinteresting than probably somebody else , 1
will to. I already have the best camera for what and it’s my smartphorie. And ﬁnally,_I~ «i » ;v'°*”” .

   
 
 
   
   

  
  

feign Damn/iauser
.3

learned that the answer will always be no if you don’t"a\S’I(;_3-;    ; *1 ,
on our trip. I didn’t have"'to  49: ,
"up to Coit Tower because I

‘ being able to see the fog

These are going to help me, even outside of the world of journalism. They had alre';‘>idy’~helped 
around an extra camera while we explored the city. If I didn’t ask if anyone wanted to try andirnake
thought it would have been a fun experience then we wouldn’t have gone. Standing at the top of th’
_MarCh morning, Soaking in thesights and rollingacross the Golden Gate Bridge was easily my favorite moment of the trip. _ - f. ;~ . ‘ me e  V J 
 — absorbing the passion of Storytelling Sup ' While standing in the airport waiting to board our ﬂight back to the East Coast I was thankful for_.the’,o7 A A vitiesethat this *tr1'p:ha_d  

rounding me. Moments like these are why . given me. In addition to the knowledge and the sights, lwas able to see my uncle who I rarely see becauge  istapgie between us. If
it wasn’t for the generosity of the journalism department I wouldn’t have been able to have that with him, nor cou "°—I-"i'i‘ave been able to
say thatit was one of the most enjoyable learning experiences of my life. »

    

we have an “Arts and Life” section, because
' that is where the simple beauty comes alive,

throbbing and ethereal. Yes, it is Thursday

morning, but here, it is so much more.

     
  

AME
Ween

 
 

. ‘V:

ann auserln ront of the oden ate Bde.

 

  
 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013 7 . THE RmG.1-UM pp” .

    

ll gou haven't read our exploits on the previous page get, gou should. It will explain a lot.

Bach? Great. So we have given gou a hlanlt page, and we want gou to lill it [metaphoricallg ol course, unless gou actuallg want to give us this page l)El(2l( with gour ideas and scrihhles]. What do gou want
us to tallr ahout? Post it on Twitter or Facehooh with #tellthephi. Are gou creative? Funng? Draw cartoons For us. Something or someone to piclr a hone with? You alwags have a hlanlr spot in Opinions.
The hest part: we are redesigning our nameplate [see the top ol the Front page, it sags The Ring-tum Phi etc.], and we want to picl( someone From the student hodg to design it lor us.
. The Rules:
I. you must include the lollowing phrases:
The Ring-tum Phi
By the students and lor the students since l897
Washington and lee llniuersitg
And a place For the date and issue numher

2. lt must either he electronicallg generated or drawn on an "X" piece ol white paper.
3. your entrg must he dropped otl at the Phi ollice [Commons 341] or emailed to us [phi@wlu.edu] hg the last dag of classes this gear, Mag I7.

G()()(l llI(Il(!

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

arts&|ife

 

 

  More than just ABCS and 123s

ESOL members spent February Break in the Dominican Republic, teaching English to the village kids and natives

By Athena Cao
STAFF WRITER

This time, it’s all about the kids. In-
stead of teaching baseball players at the
San Diego Padres’ training camp, as it
has done in the past, English for Speak-
ers of Other Languages (ESOL) sent 12
students to teach primary school stu-
dents English in a Dominican Republic
village over February Break.

During the week, the group enjoyed
more than just the beach and sunshine.
At 9 a.m. every day, half of the group
walked to the local primary school to
teach basic English words like colors,
body parts, and days of the week. They
made the learning experience fun for
the students by singing the “Days of
the Week” song and dancing along to
“Head, Shoulders, Kneesiand Toes.”

 

"rm Jor 17- :.t._:t

The ri

 

.   l   .3.  '

Because Dominican teachers have
been on strike due to complaints over
their low salaries, thevprimary school
students have only been able to go to
school for an hour every day. So after
10 a.m., the teaching half of the group
would walk twenty minutes to the after-
school program, where the other half of
the group was taking care of the kids.
The after-school program allowed the
group to communicate with local chil-
dren, learn more about their lives, and
to simply have a good time.

It is often assumed that children in a
remote village are shy, but they can be
very outgoing. All of the kids loved pos-
ing in front of cameras and taking pic-
tures of everything they saw. At lunch,

‘1.

   

_f,-12.», 'f¢'P"S,‘,-3-‘ . W wt

_ %$'; . V ,3./..

.4- » ,-._--'1». 

the group would review the photos on

their cameras and iPhones that the kids
took, and it would not be surprising to
see hundreds of pictures (mostly selﬁes)
on the camera roll. One trip leader, ju-
nior Vincent Kim, said his favorite part
of the trip was “hanging with the kids
who got swagger.”

Spending a week in a Dominican
village was like accidentally running
through the “Namia” closet, except for
the 80-degree temperatures. Najayo, a
village on the south shore of the Domin-
ican Republic, is not even recognized
by Wikipedia. Situated in the heart of
the Caribbean, it has a beautiful beach
and a clear view of the night sky with
dazzling stars.

 

Najayo locals seemed to be profes-
sional procrastinators on the beach.
Or maybe the natives living on the is-
lands simply didn’t face the pressure to
compete with others. This was demon-
strated one afternoon when the group
decided to get ice cream from a local
store. A sign on its door said the store
opened at 2:30 p.m. but the shop own-
er did not show up until about 3 p.m.

 e   l

      
 

‘ri
x.

Overall, this was an incredible learn  "
ing opportunity for everyone who went. ‘,2
on the trip. The students leﬁ a lasting ..
impact on the village, and in retum,
gained a lifetime of memories. This '
time, it truly was all about the kids.

For more information, please contact
ESOL by reaching Vincent Kim ‘ 14 or
James Biemiller ‘l5. _

    
    
      
    
    
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

  
 

    

ipactf that next drink

Dr Scott Schwartzwelder discusses the psychological and physical implications of alcohol on the adolescent brain

By Monica Devlin
G U EST w R IT E R

During a time in their lives when stu-
dents are supposed to be, maximizing
their‘ potential, are they actually per-
manently damaging it? On Feb. 28, in
a talk. entitled “Hangover 3,” Dr. Scott
Schwartzwelder of Duke University
came to Washington and Lee University
to discuss the long-terrn effects of alco-
hol on the young adult brain. As he said,
he did not come to preach or to scare;
he came to teach, so that students could
make their own informed decisions
about how to use alcohol.

Dr. Schwartzwelder described the de-
velopment of the adolescent brain, a
stagethat extends into the mid 20’s, as
a “double-edged sword.” The adolescent

brain has a greatly increased capability
to learn, but it also has an enhanced vul-
nerability to drugs, such as alcohol, and
to the possible long-terrn effects of those
drugs. These circumstances mean that at
a time in a person’s life when his brain
is speciﬁcally built to learn and has the
greatest potential to form long-lasting
memories, he is also at the highest risk
of damaging his learning and memory-
forming capabilities for the rest of his
life.

This phenomenon is due to the fact that
overuse of alcohol by people under the
age of twenty-ﬁve can affect the hippo-
campus and the frontal lobe, the parts of
the brain responsible for memory fonna-

x

tion, problem solving, feeling, thinking,
and planning. After the age of twenty-
ﬁve, when it has frilly formed and de-
veloped, the brain is not as susceptible

Hippocampuis .    f

to this sort of damage from the use of

al

cohol
So when students wake up and can-

not remember what they did the night
before, they have not simply lost a one-
time memory. If such occurrences are re-
peated over the course of several years,

St

udents may damage their memory

capabilities permanently. This damage
may mean that they will never reach the
full potential they could have, had they

not drunk heavily throughout college.

This is a frightening realization, espe-

 
 

If If‘!

<-fr‘



'~.

cially because it is much more damaging
to binge drink. Students who have heavy
schedules of schoolwork, extracurricular
activities, and group-work at night may
have the opportunity to drink on only
one or two nights a week. This situation
promotes the drinking of a large amount
of alcohol in a short time-span, or binge
drinking. If a student consumes a large
amount of alcohol over the course of
a week, but drinks it in two nights, he
inﬂicts a lot more damage than if he
were to drink that same amount over the

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

This was the
award-win-
ning article
selected
from Profes-
sor Blythe’s
class,
BIO-111:
, Addiction
- and Drugs
u f Abuse.
ongratula-
‘ ions to ju-
nior Monlca
Devlin for
writing this
piece!

      
  

course of ﬁve nights.

Dr. Schwartzwelder encouraged stu-
dents near the end of his talk by remind-
ing them that the very quality that makes
the adolescent brain sensitive to damage
also allows it to heal more effectively. So
there is hope. If students make smarter
choices about how much and over how
much time they drink, they can make
sure that they are spending college as
they are supposed to: increasing their
potential, not inhibiting it.

0

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

9 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

Timetotap

 

into your  
mner Muse

W&L is literary magazine takes center stage

By Caroline Hamp
5 TA F F w R IT E R
don‘t consider myselfa cre-
ative person. but this year I
contemplated contributing
to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s literary arts magazine. ll/II.\'(’.
Why‘? Because there is something
beautiful about putting the most abstract
concepts ofthe mind onto paper. Mak-
ing thoughts tangible is miraculous, and

yet we do it everyday. The purpose of
Muse is to take those expressions ofthe
mind and create a collection. a master-
piece.

Will Fulwider ‘ I4, the primary edi-
tor of Muse, understands the idea of
creating masterpiece and sees 1‘/lI.V(’ as

a collective, communal project. Each
person who contributes adds something
incredible. and the more people who
add to the magazine, the more poignant
it becomes.

Fulwider describes Muse as a cir-
cle of ﬁre. “Everybody has a creative
spark._ whether they acknowledge it or
not. M1/.s'e is a platform for these ere-
ative sparks," he said. “i’t»lz/se is an at-
tempt to take these disparate sparks and
ignite a ﬂame. Fires tend to attract at-
tention." ~

You don‘t need to be the next Von-
negut or Picasso or Bach to be a spark.
A spark can be anyone, no matter who
they are or how they choose to express
themselves. Said Fulwider: “It does not
matter if you think yourself a ho 'ilie
writer, painter, singer, or are con inced
of your eminent elevation to lit./z «
sic fame, we want you all to submit."

The .v\l1/xc staff have high hopes for
the literary arts magazine. Indeed, Ful-
wider himself lirst joined the organiza-
tion because of his desire to improve it.

“In high school, I was a very mi-
nor and little-contributing member of
our literary arts magazi ‘alled Bare.
Coming to W&L and ﬁnding that its
literary arts maga/_ine was little noticed
intrigued me." said Fulwider.

He decided to change that by be-
coming a part ofthe staff. Fulwider saw
a lot ofpotential in the literary arts mag-
azine because art can be so inﬂuential.
According to him, the most effective
pieces are those which "tug and play the
universal heartstrings like a lyre, yet the
reveiberations to each individual feel as
though they were played just for her."

This year, pl/z/se will be published
once duriiw ring Term, but in the fu-
ture. the s opes to publish multiple
editions each "’II‘. They also strive to
procure as many contributors as possi-
ble. Ful\\ider‘s ultimate goal‘? To have
every W&L student‘ to provide a work
ofart.

Said F uluider: “How wonderful
would it be if every single person on
this campus submitted a piece of their
creativity’? What a campus map that
would be.“

Considering submitting a part ofyou
to ll/1/sc‘? liven ifyou just have the tini-
est desire, please take the risk and put
yourself out there next year. Your art-
work could be the filial spark in a bril-
liant ring of fire.

By Josh White
STA F F w R IT E R
One of the many amazing and free op-
portunities that have been available over
the last couple weeks here on campus is
the Outing Club’s Kayak Rolling class.
Many of you are probably wondering
what exactly that is; [will explain.
When white water kayaking, the in-
dividual fuzzes himself into the kayak
to create a kayak-human hybrid capable
of going to exciting, but often less-than-
ideal places in rivers. Sports enthusiasts
do decide to go to these dangerous plac-
es because it is super fun! Those intui-
tive readers out there might have already
guessed some of the problems that come
with making a kayak an extension of the
human body — which is precisely the
problem when a kayak ﬂips over with a
person inside it.
Luckily for us, we do not need to
gworry about this burdensome deterrent
to white water prowess, for the Outing
Club has been hosting sessions teach-
ing kayakers of all abilities how to ﬂip a
kayak back up to its right side from the

 

,. -‘-‘izlr

Outing  oﬂers free lcayak roling classes for outdoor enthulasts

seated position. In fact, I myself have
been attending said kayaking classes for
the last four weeks. Having completed
my experience, I am ready to share all
that you need to know, and hopefully to
inspire you to get out there yourselfl.

The kayaking classes take place in the
warm and comfortable environment of
our very own Doremus Pool. Sessions
last about two hours and allow groups of
up to six participants who are taught by
two instructors, including Outing Club
Director James Dick.

Even though I had never hadxany ex-
perience using white water kayaks be-
fore, I felt very comfortable and stayed
within my limits from day one. The in-
structors let me move at my own pace
and gave me the tools to succeed. With
the aid of such great teachers, I had my
roll down by the third session, and the
fourth was merely an exercise in conﬁ-
dence.

For those of you who are wondering,
the art of rolling a kayak is not ﬁtness-

dependent, rather, your success will rely
on technique and ﬁnesse. And for the
more ambitious, there are many other
things one can practice in the pool aﬂer
mastering the roll. Both instructors are
experienced in paddling technique and
alternative roll styles, and can offer help-
ful tips in these areas. Kayakers who are
really looking for a challenge can even
try to learn how to roll their kayaks with-.
out a paddle.

I cannot stress enough how great this
opportunity is, and the timing couldn’t
be better. With spring coming up, leam-
ing how to handle yourself in a kayak
could open up a world of opportunity for
you this summer, and maybe even spark
a new lifelong passion. Fortunately,
there are- many more to come! These
free classes will be held every Monday
and Thursday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.,
starting up again in the next few weeks.

F eel free to contact either James Dick
or myself for more information.

Take a spin with Kelsey Cotter

Junior Kelsey Cotter acts as both a student and a teacher here on campus, leading regular spin classes at the gym

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

   

Junior Kelsey Cotter holds a dual
status as a Washington and Lee Univer-
sity student and instructor.

A native of Salem, Va., this English
major’s selﬂess attitude inspired her to
become one of the University’s group
cycling instructors.

“I wanted to be able to motivate peo-
ple to work out in a fun atmosphere,”
said Cotter. .

She stands out among her fellow
instructors, as she maintains a full aca-
demic schedule in the University and
still ﬁnds time to teach cycling. For
Cotter, being a student and instructor
allows her to get a great workout while
her friends follow her lead.

Although she is an avid runner, Cot-
ter picked up cycling after searching for
a different form of exercise.

“I wanted a low impact workout that

 

I could alternate with running, and cy— l
cling seemed like the most fun choice,”
she said.

   
   

Cotter said that. she got lucky on her

 
   
    

road to becoming an instructor. While
in Boston over the summer, she en-
rolled in a Spinning training weekend.
She is a certiﬁed Spinning instructor
through Mad Dogg Athletics.

Now, she teaches classes at the Uni-
versity three times a week. “It’s a quick
45 minute workout with my friends, so
it’s the perfect break from schoolwork,”
said Cotter.

Cotter said her classes entail a vari-
ety of music and positions, keeping her
students engaged throughout the short,
intense workout.

Students and staff can spin with Cot-
ter on Wednesdays at 8:30 a.m. and 6
p.m., or on Saturdays at 12:15 p.m.

 
   
   
   
   
     
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
 

   

    
 

 
    
    

  

 

   

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

 

‘I Congratulations to the Class of 2013 !

GRAD FAIR
3-DAY ANNUAL U.G. GRAD FAIR

Wednesday, March 13”‘ — Friday, March 15”‘
10:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.

  Atrium, Elrod Commons

The time to celebrate the end of your four year journey is fast approaching! V

From the moment you ﬁrststepped on campus, you knew you were entering a most special place. The
deﬁning traditions of Washington and Lee University: academic rigor, student self governance and lives
measured by truth and integrity will mark you as honorable men and women and leaders of the future. As
your journey comes to a close and as you celebrate your graduation day on May 23rd, enjoy the memories

of campus life, afternoons spent at Goshen, hikes up House Mountain, Fancy Dress and the many
friendships you have made. Celebrate with family and friends this special day!

  ORDERING YOUR  
CAPS& GOWNS!

 

This is the ONLY opportunity to be
ﬁaedforyourenvironmentally

  

10- THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

“green ” caps and gowns!
(Purchase price is $50.00)

Washington and Lee
University

  Engraved Chairs
Arm Chair or Rocker

 



“a lasting memory”

  

The Official Class Ring

Seniors!
Order in time to wear for graduation!

A Balfour representative will be
available to ﬁt you for this handsome

ring.

 

2013 Graduation photos
(Each graduate will be photographed as they
receive their diploma from the University
President. Photos may be purchased at
PhotoStore after graduation)

Quality photo frames, lined
with a mat embossed with the University

name and crest are available at the Grad
Fair and the Washington and Lee
University Store

PhotoStore
photostore.wlu.edu

Fy

Fly ﬁshermen from W&L and VMIj0m

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

s p o rts 

11 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

    Women’s struggles will continue

Casting clinics and ﬂy tying lessons.

A ﬁlm festival and an invitational tour-
nament. In only their third month as a
club, the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Fly Fishers (WLFF) have ofﬁcially
made their debut.
_“We are just as interested in getting
novices on the stream for the ﬁrst time
as we are in teaching experienced an-
glers advanced techniques and tourna-
ment tactics,” Biology Professor Robert
Humston said.

Fly ﬁshing has been a part of W&L for
several years through the Outing Club
and led by senior Bryan Kloster.

Activity really picked up when
Humston began spearheading events
to connect W&L students with anglers
from the Virginia Military Institute’s
Fishing Club.

Humston, who taught at VMI before
coming to W&L in 2008, noticed there
were not many efforts to bring the insti-
tutions together. He has since worked
alongside Col. Lee Dewald, VMI math-
ematics professor, to bridge the schools
through sport.

“[Col. Dewlad and I] ﬁshed together
a few times and have always talked,"
Humston said. “We wanted to connect
[VMI and W&L] in service and as an-
glers."

Last year, before WLFF was even an
idea on campus, Humston led a series of
“learn to ﬂy ﬁsh" events with Col. De-
wald to break the ice between W&L and
VMI ﬁshers.

“[Those events] culminated in the ﬁrst
W&L-VMI Fly Fishing Tournament,”
Humston said. “It was one ofthe coolest
things l’.ve ever pulled off.”

At the beginning of the event, hosted
last March, Humston was unsure how

in

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

In the last month sports fans have seen
some huge strides for women in male-
dominated sports. Danica Patrick held
the pole position at Daytona, the Ulti-
mate Fighting Championship had their
ﬁrst female title bout, and a woman
had a try-out for the NFL. The strides
women have been making are remark-
able without a doubt, but do women re-
ally have a future in these sports? Will
we see additional women entering the
NASCAR Sprint Cup? Will we ever
see a woman in an NFL jersey, or in an
MLB uniform‘? I

As a female sports fan, it truly is dif-
ﬁcult being taken seriously because pro-

Road is difficult, but no impossible

For years, female athletes have strug-
gled to gain recognition in sports domi-
nated by males. Sports such as football
and baseball appear as elite fraternities
only available to the best male athletes,
with no space for even the most talented
females. One could simply chalk this up
to differences in physicality. but upon
closer examination, female athletes
across sports are staking their claim in
“male”-dominated leagues.

In some sports, incorporating females
into male leagues seems difficult and
far-fetched. For example, Brittany (iri-
ner recently scored 50 points against
Kansas Sate and dunked. Griner has
been dominant in NCAA women’s bas-
ketball for years. However, when coin-
pared to NCAA men‘s basketball greats
like Shaquille O‘Neal. the physical dif-

bringing the two groups together would
play out. _
“It started out as all the W&L stu-
dents over here and the VMI cadets over
there," Humston said. “But by the time
they came in for lunch, they were having

_ a great time together. Then the ﬁshing

pairs were talking strategy. It was so
great to watch.”

The toumament’s success caught
the attention of the press and inspired
Humston to establish an ofﬁcial ﬂy ﬁsh-
ing club at W&L. WLFF has continued
its ties with VMI and has connected their
program with other organizations.

"Now, W&L folks are constantly going
over [to VMI] and VMI cadets are al-
ways coming over here,” Humston said.

Since WLFF’s inception in
December, there have been about ﬁve
events leading up to the second annual
VMI-W&L Fly Fishing Toumament,
including casting and ﬂy tying clinics, a
guest speaker, and the Fly Fishing Film
Tour at VMI.

“Also, Kloster was instrumental in
connecting our club with Trout Unlim-
ited,” Humston said.

The national organization promotes
conservation of North American water-
sheds. Humston serves as the ofﬁcial of
W&L’s Trout Unlimited student chapter
and of the regional chapter.

“The local chapter...has been incred-
ibly helpful and supportive, with chap-
ter members volunteering their time for
[clinics] and serving as on-water in-
structors and oﬂieials during the tourna-
ment,” Humston said.

Similarly, WLFF incorporates ﬁshing
into service. y

“We organize stream cleanups and vol-
unteer to teach folks at VMI and Sweet

fessional sports are still seen as a man's
game, no matter what the actual fan base
is. Nonetheless, l’ve never seen playing
most professional sports as something
that women can really break into. Not
only do I think that it would complicate
the sports world beyond words, but I just
don’t see a large amount of females be-
ing able to physically perform in most
sports the way men do.

I think it’s important to note that some
of these female additions seem to be
driven by sex appeal, which may (unfor-
tunately) be the key to women breaking
into the sport. People either love or hate

-Danica Patrick but there is no denying

fercnces are overwhelming. Men"s bas-
ketball appears to be one of the more
diflicult sports to break into.

On the other end ofthe spectrum. soc—.
cer has become one ofthe most uniform-
ly accepted and enjoyed sports by female
athletes at all levels. The US. womcn‘s
world cup performance in Ztlll can at-
test to the popularity of the sport as a
whole. In this case, the womcn‘s team
was much more exciting to watch than
the U8. men‘s, who were not nearly as
successful in their World (‘up attempt.
This is perhaps an example of where
keeping men and women separate in
sport could actually propel female ath-
letes to higher public regard than their
male counterparts.

There are many gray areas in this dc-
bate. Much of what we know about

Briar how to cast and ﬂy,” Humston said.

WLFF has also worked with Project
Healing Waters.

“The purpose is to get veterans who’ve
been injured in combat into ﬂy ﬁsh-
ing,” Humston said. “Club members
have volunteered as guides and teachers.
Their assistance could be as simple as
tying ﬂies.”

In part, the second annual tournament

on March 23 is a reward to club mem- .

bers for their service throughout the
term.

Later this spring, the club plans to host
more events. There will be a beginner’s
event on April 27 at an alumnus’ Blue
Ridge lodge. Anyone interested is en-
couraged to come out.

“We want to provide people the op-
portunity to leam...it’s not magic,”
Humston assures any wary beginner.
“Just a simple 30-minutes _of practice,
and you’ll start to feel comfortable with
casting.”

For more advanced ﬁshers, WLF F aims
for a competitive level. Some members
already have a great deal of tournament
experience.

WLFF President Will Travis, ‘l4,
competed on the U.S. Youth Fly Fishing
Team in the 2009 World Championship
in the Czech Republic. .

“Before I met Will, I had no idea
competitive ﬂy ﬁshing was a thing,”
Humston said.

“There’s a lot ofinterest in competitive
ﬂy ﬁshing in Pennsylvania, West Vir-
ginia, Georgia, and so forth,” Humston

. continued. “We aim to send people to

those tournaments.”

In fact, WLFF received its ﬁrst invi-
tation to a tournament, the 4th Annual
Harrnan’s National Invitational Fly Fish-

the fact that she is attractive, or ignor-
ing her (30 Daddy ads. Anyone who fol-
lows MMA knows that the same can be
said about former fighter Gina Carano,
(she’ll be in the new “Fast and Furious”
movie) and new UFC Champion Ronda
Rousey. And I am still confused as to
how the woman was chosen for the ﬁrst
NFL tryout (for the Jets nonetheless).
The girl didn't know how to set up the
tee! Still there are exceptions, but this
may be what is needed to drive the ad-
dition of females in these sports, and we
can hope that soon we will get beyond it.

None of this takes away from the
strides that are being made by women.

female and male athletes is subject to
change and there are many opportuni-
ties for female athletes to make moves
into male sports. While I believe this
will occur in the future, many females
are already making a name for them-
selves today. Perhaps the most notable
of these athletes is Danica Patrick, who
is outperforming many men in her ﬁeld
of N/\S(‘/\R and proving her doubters
wrong. Patrick‘s success should inspire
other \\ omen to try and join NASCAR,
and it's possible \\e could see more rac-
ers like her in the future. In football, the
lirst female player performed at a draft
combine this year. Lauren Silberman at-
tempted to wow scouts with her leg and
make it to an NFL team. While she came
up short. she proved that this is another
opportunity for females in male sports.

It is awesome to see such success sto-
ries ofwomen in male dominated sports.
The ﬁrst female UFC ﬁght was one of
the most exciting ﬁghts I had ever seen,
(I’m more than a casual fan) and Dani-
ca’s feat was equally as impressive. is
there a future for the young girls who
say they are going to break the gender
barrier in the NFL or the MLB? There’s
no way of knowing, but in the mean-
time, I don’t think we will see an over-
whelming increase of women making
similar feats.

.1!

By Kyle Jaeger

STA F F w R IT E R
She also drew comparisons to Katie l-ln-
ida, the ﬁrst kicker in Division l-A foot-
ball. They both serve as examples for
future female football players to follow,
and in the near future I believe we could
see female kickers in the NFL.

It is dillicult to debate a subject such as
this, because there is so much that could
change in the future. Rather than con-
sidering this a “head-to-head" subject. it
should be viewed as a discussion. While
it is clear that in many cases it would be
difficult for women to compete on the
same level as men, there are also sev-
eral opportunitics for female athletes to
gain respect and fame in both male and
female leagues. For now. we can only
sit back and encourage female athletes
everywhere  we see what the future
holds.

g com etes as a team  

together to form an oﬁcial club, and have plans to compete

Participants of the ﬁrst annual VMI-W&L Fl Fishig tournament

courtesy of Steve Romine

ing Event.

On May 3 and 4, junior Julian Kindrish
and ﬁrst-year Oliver Nettere will com-
pete for W&L, the only University of the
16 teams competing.

The club has only been around for
some three months and already has great

plans. Humston and club members
strive to achieve competitive excellence,
all the while maintaining a pure love for
the sport and desire to share it with an-
glers of all skill levels.

 

 

  

12 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013

sports

’1

I

 

  it

in the nu mbers
The total number of losses that the Liberty University men’s
basketball team had when they qualiﬁed for the NCAA Tour-
nament. They are just the second team in history to have
that many losses and still qualify. They defeated top-seeded

Charleston Southern in the Big South Championship to

earn the spot.

48

How old Bernard Hopkins was when he won the IBG light.
heavyweight championship on Saturday. With the victory

Hopkins became the oldest boxer to win a major title.

7

The total number of players ejected in the World Baseball
Classic game between Mexico and Canada. A brawl broke
out in the ninth inning after Mexico’s Arnold Leon threw a
pitch into the back of Canada's Rene Tosini. Canada won
the game 10-3. With the loss, Mexico was eliminated from

the tournament.

soapbox

“Whoever says that we’re just here as an

Big city team 
small town Lex

Harlem Globetrotters perform at Cameron Hall

By Kristina Seon
GUEST WRITER

   

Globetrotters game were ex:
actly what my friends and I
needed midweek as an ex-
tended study break. Grow-
— ing up in New York, I had
heard about the exhibition basketball team
frequently. The chance to see a full show that
boasted a combination of athleticism, theater,
and comedy was one that I simply could not
pass up.

The Harlem Globetrotters have a rich his-
tory, dating back to their start in 1927. The
team originated on the South Side of Chi-
cago but moved to Harlem as its home city
in 1928 because it was considered the cen-
ter of African-American culture at the time.
The Globetrotters became known more for
entertainment than sports as they gradually
worked comic routines into their act. Some
of the more notable Globetrotters through-
out the years have been NBA stars, such as
Wilt “The Stilt” Chamberlain, Connie “The
Hawk” Hawkins, and Nat “Sweetwater” C lif-
ton. '

My friends and I arrived at the arena, not
quite sure what to expect but we were not dis-
appointed. The players amazed us with their
tricks, artﬁil passing, and carefully crafted
and executed plays. One player even came
over the bleachers and shot from a few rows
up, at which he was successful after a few at-
tempts.

The best (or worst) part came in the third
quarter of the game. During a time out, a
player named Big Easy had stolen another
player’s water cup. Big Easy and Scooter, the
other player, came to the comer of the court

 

ront row seats to a Harlem

   
    

near us and fought about to whom the water
belonged. Big Easy was forced to give the cup
back, but instead took a spectator’s chicken
sandwich and ate it. Afterwards, he claimed

that he needed some water now so Scoot-
er, still mad about the incident, threw
the water cup at him and splashed all

of us in the first row. Right after, .
Big Easy targeted me and took my ,.l 

ill

jacket to wipe the water and sweat rt‘ $77
off of him. The situation would 
have been a lot more amusing ifit . ‘ kl
hadn’t happened to me. Needless '
to say, that jacket will be washed 
a minimum of three times before
I wear it again.

The Globetrotters entertained '
us with their jokes and cool
skills, but to be honest it was
definitely targeted more towards
younger audiences. The young-
er children were constantly 
laughing, begging their parents _‘
to ‘buy them the overpriced 3
basketball, and the ﬁrst ones ’
out of their seats at the end of
the game to get autographs. 
Even so, my friends and I
still had fun. I’m not sure if
it’s an experience I would pay
to see ever again but I’m glad
I got the opportunity to see it. .
Who says nothing exciting
happens in Lexington?

34*’, i.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 

. 3‘ ~ ,

   

4

 

   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 

2;‘ _

sic’

extra spring training game or we’re just
here to say we represented our country
and then go home obviously didn’t see how
intense that game was and what it means
to everybody that was involved.”

-canadlan baseball playanuaun Momeau about Canada's

¢nmovorursMadooln1hoWorldBasebaIlclaablo.Modoo
wonthogameln-3.,fromsl.com

“But you look at a guy like Kobe and he
doesn't care about nothing but going out
there and playing hard. That's a lesson a
lot of us have to learn - - especially young
guys.”

-Lnomaeleslalorowldrtﬂowaruabouthowhlscanie
mon1alltyIiaacliari¢addurln¢theNBAAlI-elnrBreak. Hotold
roportnrsthathewusafraldtomlasbirtwulnhIn¢Bryanthas
dvonhlmlrisplruuontnnotletmlssesusthlmdalimmrom
Sl.com ’

Athlete of the Week

 

Senior Mac Means has led
the 10th- ranked men’s
lacrosse team with 13 goals
this season in six games,
including three in Saturday's
11-9 victory versus Franklin
and Marshall.

 

ondeck

Slow start for L

Team has one forfeit and three losses against ranked teams

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

Junior attacker Katie Hagen runs the ball up te field.

‘I

ax

    

 
   

Hagen scored two of her four goals on the season in a 16-5 home win against Randolph.
Courtesy of Washington and Lee Sports Information

The W&L women’s lacrosse team is off
to one of their slowest starts in years, start-
ing the season of with just two wins and four
losses.

The season began for the Generals with a
forfeit to St. Mary’s due to several players’
suspensions for breaking team rules. In ad-
dition to team injuries and illnesses, Coach
O’Brien said that the Generals would not
have been able to ﬁeld a full team. The Gen-
erals then suffered a one-goal loss to current
#19 Christopher Newport. _

Since the losses, the Generals have opened
up play in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-

ference with two blowout wins after host-
ing Randolph and Hollins. They have also
suffered two home losses at the hands of #9
Franklin and Marshall and #2 Salisbury.

The Generals have had several key per-
formances through the beginning of their
season. First-year Emily Conway leads the
team in points with l_4 after commanding ap-
pearances against Hollins and Randolph. Ju-
nior Meade Brewster has had dominant per-
formances tallying eleven points, including
having a hand in four of the goals the Gener-
als put up against Salisbury. First-year Carly
Taglienti, sophomore Catherine Klinedinst,

and junior Katie Hagen have been offen-
sive weapons throughout the ﬁrst six games.
Goalie sophomore Cara Mulligan has had an

, impressive start to the season, establishing

her role as a leader in goal. Juniors Leanne
Stone and Olive Waxter have been dominant
on defense for W&L.

The Generals continue their ODAC sched-
ule when they travel to Roanoke on Wednes-
day for a game under the lights. Their next
home game will be on Saturday when they
take on Virginia Wesleyan at 2:30 on Watt
Field.

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday - Saturday . Sunday
B a s e b a I I vs Stevenson 3 pm vs.‘S. Va. 3 pm at Guilford 12 and 3 pm
G o I f" at OWU Day 1 at owu Day 2

Men’s Lacrosse

vs. R-M 1 pm

Women’s Lacrosse

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs. Va Wes 2:30 pm

Men’s Tennis

vs R-M 4 pm, Va-Wes 7pm

Women’s Tennis

vs R-M 4 pm, Va-Wes 7pm

at Roanoke 10 am

Track and Field

at Lynchburg Open

