 

 

 

   V y i‘7,'ie:e’?”9PlNIONSi/ page 4

It's attgooal iwthe  !  
Props for getting involved, W&L Naborsp  
Service Day was a smashingsuccesslii  

A&L‘/ 

    WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

' THE RING—TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTSAND FOR THE.STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVILNUMBER4

Greek recruitment
feels the pressure

Competitiveness of rush is highlighted in various recruiting methods

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

W&L goes social

Organizations use social media for publicity,

By Hamlet Fort
STA F F w R IT E R
Social media are changing our lives.

With Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus,
Pinterest, Tumblr. and lnstagram, the
list of social media websites seems end-
less. These sites are bringing the world
together, enriching connectivity and al-
lowing people to access people, places
and memories that they thought were
lost. The influence of social media in to-
day’s society is undeniable, and there are
two choices moving forward: reject it, or
accept and embrace it. Washington and
Lee is choosing the latter.

New this school year is a task force
of students with the job of integrating
social media into the W&L experience.
The social media team, #wluSocial, is
a group of eight students committed to
coaxing W&L into the social media era.
According to Bridget Rooney, a member
of#wluSocial and the coordinator ofstu-
dent organizations‘ efforts at marketing
through social. media, most of W&L‘s
previous endeavors with social media
involve alumni. #wluSocial wants to
change that.

“Given the undeniable importance of
social media in the daily lives ofour cur-
rent students, we wanted to expand out

such as sports, performances and ex-
tracurricular life. @wlulex is intended
for current W&L students, so the team
tweets relevant information about what
is happening in and around Lexington
that includes a wide array of different
interests and initiatives.

#wluSocial is working with student
organizations to help get the word out
about their groups and what their mis-
sions involve. Rooney believes social
media are the perfect tool for organiza-
tions to evolve.

The Interfraternity Council (IFC) has
created a Twitter handle this year, @
wluifc, and is hoping to use #wluSocial
to expand their mission through social
media.

Danny Murray ’l3, the President of
the IFC, sees promise in the idea. “Ide-
ally we want to use it (social media) to
get the word out about all the events that
we have,” he said. “For example, we’re
hosting a tennis tournament this week-
end, and Twitter can help us get that in-
formation out there.”

Rooney said she knows that involv-
ing all student organizations will be a
process. “Eventually, we hope that all

“Eventually, we hope that all student organizations

at W&L will use social media to inform, organize

and act. 

BRIDGET ROONEY, memberof #wluSocial

reach to the W&L community living in
Lexington,” Rooney said. “What does a
W&L student want to know each day?
How does he or she go about ﬁnding that
important information? In answering
these questions, we decided to skip the
guessing games and reach out to students
directly--and #wluSocial was boml.”

#wluSocial’s Twitter handle, @wlu-
lex, is “the team’s ﬁrst effort to consoli-
date and communicate the information
relevant to W&L students via social me-
dia,” according to Rooney.

The team tweets University updates,
pictures and links to important events,

student organizations at W&L will use
social media to inform, organize and
act,” she said.” #wluSocial is a promis-
ing start to the University’s goal of in-
corporating social media.

“Our goals for @wlulex and #wIuSo-
cial are to create and nurture a living and
breathing social idea of what it means
to be a student at W&L,” said Rooney.
“What do you want to know? What do
you want to see and improve? #wluSo-
cial is creating a platform for both of
those questions and more. Follow us -
it’s going to be a busy year.”

Follow #wluSocial at @wlulex.

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR _

With the start of informal recruitment
of Washington and Lee University’s
Greek system, fraternities and sororities
are beginning to feel the pressure of en-
suring new membership.

For sororities, potential new mem-
bers (PNMs) are informally recruited
from Sept. 15 to Dec. 7. For fratemities,
PNMs are informally recruited during
the entire fall term.

Alexandra Frazier ’l3, President of
the Panhellenic Council, said that in-
formal recruitment is a time of acquain-
tance between ﬁrst-year women and
upperclasswomen. “During informal
recruitment,” she said, “PNMs have the
opportunity to meet upperclasswomen
sorority members, go on ‘rush dates,’
and attend Panhellenic-sponsored ‘Meet
the Greeks‘ events.”

Fraternity recruitment, on the other
hand, is less structured.

Many fraternities, like Kappa Alpha,
do not recruit in a systematic manner.
“Sophomores generally have the best re-
lationship with ﬁrst-years in class and in
clubs,” said Lawson Neal "13, fraternity
President. “We have ﬁrst-years "over
who we like for dinner, or skeet shoot-
ing, or parties and stuff like that.”

“Frankly, there’s really not all that
much to [recruitment],” said John Paul
Beall ’l4, Kappa Sigma fraternity Presi-
dent. “Rush is really groups of people
socializing and getting to know each
other.”

Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. re-
frains from recruiting entirely. Instead,
it offers information sessions during the
fall and winter terms. Matthew Locke
’ 12, fraternity President on Campus,
said that limited recruiting makes PNMs
inform themselves about the fraternity.
As a result, new members are sure of
their decision tojoin.

Although fraternities recruit differ-

ently than sororities, they both feel pres-
sured to break the rules of recruitment.

Kaelin Fraley “I3, Recruitment Chair
ofthe Panhellenic Council, said, ‘‘In any
sorority recruitment process at a variety
of schools that have a prevalent Greek
system, rush violations can and usually
occur.”

falls under the category of ‘dirty rush.’”

Clay Coleman, Director of Greek and
Residential Life, also said that recruiting
through this program is not a rush viola-
tion.

Greek organizations can also recruit
PNMS by following them on Twitter or
befriending them on Facebook.

“I don ’t know if it [the University Big/Little Pro-

gram] falls under the category of ‘dirty rush.

)1}

LAWSON NEAL ‘13, President of Kappa Alpha Fraternity

Neal said, “It’s hard out there, be-
cause you know you’re competing with
other fraternities.”

Many students on campus have been
made aware of this pressure recently via
a leaked email, in which a member of a
Greek organization encouraged fellow
members to recruit PNMs through the
Big/Little program and through Face-
book.

Regarding this issue, Danny Mur-
ray ’l3, President of the lnterfratemity
Council (IFC), said, “Ideally, with all
sorts of violations, respective chapters
will use an internal judicial process.”

' Despite the heavy greek inﬂuence
on campus, the First-Year Orientation
Committee does not encourage Greek
organizations to recruit PNMs through
its University Big Brother/Big Sister
program.

David Thomas ’l5, FYOC Big/Little
Co-Chair, said that University Bigs are
chosen for their personalities and home-
towns, not for their Greek afﬁliation.
“The goal of the program,” Thomas said,
“is to provide ﬁrst-years with the perfect
transition from summer to school.”

On recruitment through the Big/Little
program, Neal said, ‘‘I don’t know if it

However, Brendan McGoldrick ’l4,
Sigma Chi Rush Chairman, said: “I’ve
never heard of stalking kids and ﬁnding
out what they like. l’ve never heard of
somebody going online on Facebook
and seeing what pages [a PNM] likes.
I’ve never seen’ or experienced it. If
that’s a fratemity’s rush plan, then that’s
its rush plan.”

Opinions differ on the deﬁnition and
extent of recruitment violations.

“I don’t think dirty rushing is preva-
lent,” Frazier said. “W&L’s honor code
extends to all aspects of Greek Life, and
I generally feel like upperclasswomen
respect the recruitment rules that Pan-
hellenic has put in place.”

When Greek organizations incur po-
tential recruitment violations, they pun-
ish themselves. “I feel like it is the cul-
ture of fratemities to handle those sorts
of problems amongst themselves,” Mur-
ray said.

Self-govemance is key. “Fratemities
need to look at creating their own inter-
nal judicial board if they don’t have one
already,” according to the minutes from
the IFC’s Sept. 24 meeting.

Voter registration drive reaches ten percent of W&L

College Republicans ran a voter registration drive in the Commons, encouraging students to vote in Virginia

By Randy Karlson
STAFF warren

The College Republicans are promoting their cause in the upcoming election with their “Done in One”

shirts in the hope that Obama’s presidency will end after one term.

COY FERRELL/ staff photographer

One of the biggest goals of the Col-
lege Republicans this upcoming year
was to get as many students registered
to vote in Virginia as possible. This was
addressed quickly with a voter registra-
tion drive on campus this past week. The
group set up a table inside the John W.
Elrod Commons for most of the week,

including the numbers from the Activi-
ties Fair.

When asked about the week-long
drive, Luther had commented on the
massive number of voters registered,
“We exceeded our goals, but if you look
even closer at the numbers, we reached
more than ten percent of students on

“We exceeded our goals, but if you look even closer

at the numbers, we reached more than ten percent

of students on campus. That is an impact on such a

small campus, if it could be replicated across the

state it would be a huge impact. ”
LEX LUTHER, President of College Republicans

and had a tent and table outside on Tues-
day all day.

The President of the group, Lex Lu-
ther, had set a goal of I00 voter regis-
trations for the week, and said he was
pleasantly surprised when he looked at
the ﬁnal numbers for the drive. By the
end of the week, the drive had generated
160 registered voters in Virginia; includ-
ed in that number are 25 Virginia absen-
tee ballots, as well as over 36 swing state
registrations.

The drive had also included the sale
of more than 40 of the group’s “Done In
One” t-shirts, bringing the total number
of t-shirts sold on the year to over 180,

campus. That’s an impact on such a
small campus, if it could be replicated
across the state it would be a huge im-
pact.”

Because of this sort of turn out in
such a small school in an important
swing state, Luther said, “Needless to
say we are really excited for the upcom-
ing election.”

 

 

    

‘:3 

 

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

 

Statuses, tweets & j-interns

Social media is now playing a major role in the work of journalism interns

By Krysta Huber
s TA F F w R IT E R

Social media is beginning to play a ma-
jor role in journalism education at W&L
outside the classroom.

Every summer, W&L journalism stu-
dents complete internships in radio, televi-
sion and print positions at media organiza-
tions across the country. These internships
are a requirement for W&L students major-
ing in journalism and business journalism
and also include a presentation in the fall
term following the internship, according to
wlu.edu. On Sept. 24-26 and Oct. 1 and 2,
journalism majors highlighted their intern-
ship experiences to peers and professors.

Throughout the presentations, a com-
mon theme emerged — social media is
progressively playing a
larger role

in the

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

news industry. A majority of interns report-
ed daily interaction with social media sites
like Twitter and Facebook, as a means of
ﬁnding story ideas, promoting articles and
keeping developing stories up to date.
Senior Alex Maragos had two intem-
ships this summer: one with the television

 

station Comcast SportsNet Chicago and the
second with the radio station 89 WLS, for
the Roe & Roeper Show. Maragos said that
Twitter was vitalfor the radio show.
“Going live for four hours over the air
means you need to adjust to slight changes
in news or new angles that are presented,”
Maragos said. “I was on Twitter daily at the
radio station and I had to be as up to date
as possible to make sure the station didn’t
miss any breaking news that would be per-
tinent to the day’s rundown.” '
Senior Caitlin Doermer, who worked
for the investigative unit of NBC 5 Chi-
cago, typically used Facebook and
Twitter as a research tool.
For one story in particu-
lar, Doermer had to in-
vestigate the safety of
babysitting websites,
in which Facebook
played a signiﬁcant role.
“I would use potential bab-
ysitters’ Facebook

pages to get their birth date to run their in-
formation in the Cook County record sys-
tem,” Doermer said.

According to Doermer, NBC 5 Chicago
also relied on other, lesser-known media
sites such as EveryBlock. This site was
helpful for the nature of Doermer’s work

because it tracks neighborhood news, down
to the speciﬁcs of a single city block, ac-
cording to everyblock.com. EveryBlock
made it easier for Doermer and her cowork-
ers to narrow in on the pertinent issues of
different areas of Chicago. “Chicago is so

big that looking at issues covered in City

Hall are of almost zero help,” she said.

Junior Laura Beth Ellis, who interned
with Rialto Theatre in Atlanta, Ga., also
used Facebook as a research device. Un-
like Doermer, Ellis researched information
about Rialto Theatre’s competitors.

Ellis said: “I used social media to make
the Rialto Theatre’s own social media
stronger. I looked at all of the social media
for Rialto Theatre’s competition in Atlanta
and compared what they did to what we did.
By gathering this information, the Rialto
Theatre could see what worked and didn’t
work for competitors.”

Junior Logan Nardo worked for K95,
96.5, Hot 100.9 and 103.7, which are all ra-
dio stations owned by Cox Media Group, a
company based in Richmond, Va.

Nardo used Facebook for promotional
purposes, such as informing listeners about
different contests and prizes that the radio
stations were running or giving away. Nar-
do worked at concert venues where he had
to take pictures of the radio station’s booth
and then post them on the station’s

Facebook page. That way, listeners
could log on to Facebook to ﬁnd out
where to win prizes.
Many of the journalism students
who interned this summer believe
that this is only the beginning for
social media’s involvement in
the news industry and it will
continue to grow for a num-
ber of reasons.

Doermer said she sees a
future for social media be-
cause of its simplicity. “So-
cial media is not very time

consuming. It’s quick and
easy and it’s pretty much a one-
person job,” she said.

Ellis said that social media effective-
ly reaches younger audiences, which is cru-
cial for a company like the Rialto Theatre
because it doesn’t always attract teenagers
and young adults.

“In the research that I conducted, the
number of Facebook check-ins, likes on the
Rialto page and followers and re-tweets on
Twitter continues to grow immensely year
after year,” Ellis said. “I can only see posi-
tives for the Rialto Theatre where social
media is concerned.”

ComfortCare comes to Lex

ComfortCare oﬂers services for women and hopes to work with W&L

By Yejean Kim
s TA F F w R I T E R

ComfortCare Women’s Health, a clin-
ic specializing in unplanned pregnancy,
opened its Lexington branch on 631 Wad-
dell Street on Sept. 24. '

ComfortCare ﬁrst opened in Staunton in
1983 and expanded to a second location in
Waynesboro in 1996. The Lexington office
is its third location.

According to Sommer Hansen, President
and CEO of ComfortCare Women’s Health,
the clinic specializes in pregnancy conﬁr-

I mation, nurse’s consultation, peer counsel-

ing on pregnancy options and STI testing,
and aims to provide “medical services, edu-
cation, and compassion” to women who are
facing “the complex physical, emotional,
and spiritual aspects” of unplanned preg-
nancy. *

As a non-proﬁt medical clinic, all ser-
vices provided by ComfortCare are compli-
mentary.

Research into a possible Lexington
branch began in 2007. After recruiting a
local advisory team, ComfortCare and its
Board of Directors and staff studied com-
munity statistics, had discussions with 10-
cal healthcare providers and consulted with
other Virginia professionals, concluding
that such a center would be beneﬁcial to
Lexington women.

The various funds needed to establish
the clinic took several years to procure and
allocate: “The community has been over-
whelmingly supportive,” stated Hansen,
and to date, over $125,000 has been raised
in support of the clinic by hundreds of indi-
viduals from the Lexington community.

Although founded on a Judeo-Christian
framework, ComfortCare strives to serve
all women regardless of any income level,
race, or religion.

However, the clinic does not provide any
abortion services, nor does it provide any
referrals to clinics that do. “We believe edu-
cation for women in unplanned pregnancy
should be free of these ties,” stated Hansen.

While the clinic does not have a direct

‘ She went on to say that the clinic wanted
students to be “supported and equipped to
make a pregnancy decision out of education
and power, not questions and fear,” and that
ComfortCare found it “disturbing that no
organization existed in Lexington to sup-
port W&L students.”

Hansen also expressed the desire to have
ComfortCare work with various campus
groups, but details have yet to be ﬁnalized.

“A woman in college faces certain unique pressures

when faced with unplanned pregnancy. This woman,

in particular, deserves access to convenient, affordable

pregnancy conﬁrmation. She deserves information and

J

compassion. ’

Sommer Hansen, President and CEO of Comfortcare Women’s Health

relationship with Carillion Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital, there is a referral relationship
as well as other professional relationships
with local doctors and the health depart-
ment.

When asked if W&L’s proximity was a
factor in the clinic’s opening, Hansen said:
“A woman in college faces certain unique
pressures when faced with unplanned preg-
nancy. This woman, in particular, deserves
access to convenient, affordable pregnancy
conﬁrmation. She deserves information and
compassion.”

The clinic has also developed workshops
to beneﬁt campus groups, sororities, and
fraternities by providing pertinent infor-
mation about topics relating to unplanned
pregnancy such as hooking up, the mom-
ing after pill, real life stories of unplanned
pregnancies, and continuing education after
unplanned pregnancy.

“We’re privileged to serve W&L wom-
en,” Hansen stated.

Students can make an appointment with
ComfortCare by calling 540-448-0148 or
going to iﬁtspositive.com.

   

r. 

rv‘ g

—I ‘g.

E S
- \4
#-

\

    49‘
- 51:|o'\‘~‘ 3
Water shortages at

'6'};-

devastating levels

UN and non-proﬁts try to deal with an

issue unknown to many college students

By Hannah Howard ..
s TA F F w R I T E R

People cry out for water in the streets of Liberia. Citizens lament the
lack of water in cities in Nigeria. Children in refugee camps in Sudan are
unable to ﬁnd drinking sources. Despite continued efforts by the United
Nations (UN) and many non-proﬁt organizations to solve the problem, wa-
ter shortages in Africa are at devastating levels.

The World Health Organization reported that worldwide, nearly a bil-
lion people lack access to clean drinking water — that’s one out of every
eight people. This has led to 3.4 million deaths each year. In sub-Saharan
Africa, where the effects of water shortages are felt the most, one out of
every nine children dies before reaching the age of ﬁve. This is in large part
due to malnutrition and poor water sources, according to UNICEF.

According to the Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting, the problem is
only growing more severe. Population is expanding, urbanization is oc-
curring and city planning simply can’t keep up. Thus cities in third world
countries aren’t having water needs met. It’s even harder for people to get
water to rural places in these areas. V '

In Liberia, water can cost more than 35 dollars for a gallon. It’s a hard
commodity to come by, especially during seasons of drought. The Pulitzer
Center reported that people struggle to ﬁnd drinking sources everyday and
in some places may spend up to half of their income on water. People often
can’t even guarantee if this purchased water will be clean. Sanitation pro-
cesses in Africa are sub-par at best and nonexistent at worst.

For many people in countries such as Nigeria, their only access to water
is a pump shared by a whole community, according to the Pulitzer Center.
When these pumps break, families are left without any way to get water.
Water rations also make it hard to maintain continual access. These rations
are put out disproportionately to poorer areas of cities. Poor planning by
city ofﬁcials has also resulted in many areas lacking pumps and water lines.

Many people trying to help within their own nations simply don’t have
the resources available to take care of everyone. Refugee camps in Su-
dan are currently ﬁghting against water shortages, according to the African
Press Organization. People housed at the camps are drinking contaminated
run off water.

College age students caught up in the chaos of campus life around them
seem to be unaware of the crisis.

When asked to estimate the amount of people living without access to
clean drinking water, most responded by throwing out random numbers and
said they had no idea.

The majority of students overshot the actual statistic. One said, “I ﬁg-
ured it would be better to end up assuming the problem was worse than it
really is rather than assuming it was better.”

Only 2 of the 20 W&L students surveyed came close to the actual ﬁg-
ures. All students interviewed said they were aware that water shortages
were a global problem but didn’t know any speciﬁcs regarding the problem.

Organizations such as People Water, Global Water and Water Missions
International have recognized the need to educate students on college cam-
puses about global water issues. All three of these organizations offer cam-
pus initiatives and positions for student ambassadors.

 

geaéo 2 ea‘  

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday — Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am — 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu online

S3 Find us on Face book

1 Twitter @berkysfood

 

MONDAY,

OCTOBER 1, 2012

How do I put this gently? Jeb Bush is not run-
ning for president.

Do you know who is running for President? Mitt
Romney. Governor Romney, while he may have
started off as a moderate, is no longer a center-
of-the-road candidate. An evolving party, a tough
primary, and signiﬁcant amounts of money from
the far right have pushed Romney down a radical
path. He can’t keep his base without extreme po-
sitions. and those positions seriously hurt the I 1.5
million illegal immigrants in this country without
any real gains. Romney is not a moderate.

Romney is ‘against-amnesty; which leaves im-
migrants already in the country in a very sticky
situation. This past December, the former gover-
nor stated that these immigrants would need to
leave the country and reapply for green cards.
Illegal immigrants make up 3.5% of our popula-
tion. That’s equivalent to the population of Ohio.

Now, though I can see why Romney would wish
to get rid ofa state where he is currently polling 5
points behind his opponent, it’s hardly feasible to
just send that many people “back home.”

In fact, for many ofthem, this country is home.
The DREAM Act would provide young adults
who came to this country illegally as children with
a path to residency and citizenship. Jeb Bush ae-
knowledges the beneﬁts ofthis bill. but Romney
has said that he would veto it. This is exactly the
kind of behavior that has stalled this legislation,
which was at one point bipartisan, in the House.

.This is the kind of behavior thatled President

Obama to issue an executive order that would
reprioritize deportations, effectively halting the
persecution on these students that Congress will
not protect. The actions ofthese congressmen and
-women, and Mitt Romney’s promise to rescind
the executive order, are not moderate positions to

have.

Mitt Romney supports building “a high-tech
fence" on the border between the United States
and Mexico. Herman Cain, Romney's former op-
ponent, was ridiculed when he suggested a simi-
lar idea during the primaries. This is not a moder-
ate position.

Jeb Bush is not running for President. Mitt
Romney is. And do you know who else is‘? Bar-
rack Obama.

Obama has focused immigration enforcement
on the people who should not be in our country~——
criminals and terrorists. not students and seniors.
He has repeatedly supported the DREAM Act,
and proposals in the Senate that would provide
amnesty to those who would pay ﬁnes and back
taxes. Obama is the moderate here, while Rom-
ney is chasing the xenophobic policies of the far

I right.

° THE RING-TUM PHI '

Dems

By Maureen Nalepa
GUEST WRITER

Immigrants own businesses. Illegal immigrants
pay at least SI I billion in income taxes. They are
not receiving cash handouts from the govern-
ment. and. in many cases, they are legally barred
from receiving welfare of any sort. The I million
people per year who immigrate legally do not de-
serve to live in fear ofraeial proﬁling because it
"might" be illegal. Such policies are ﬁguratively
and literally attacking the surface of immigration
reform. Romney would be forced by his base to
agree with these extreme policies. He simply isn‘t
allowed to be a moderate.

Jeb Bush is sensible. For ob\ ious reasons. I
don‘t agree with him on many issues. and immi-
gration is one ofthem. I can, however. respect his
position because it is at least relatable. But Jeb
Bush isn‘t running. Mitt Romney is. And, thank-
fully, so is Barack Obama.

Congratulations to
Robert S. Thompson '89
on his nomination for
membership in the
Gridiron Secret Society

++ SicVos Non Vobis ++

» Best of luck from those who
have been watching from afar at the

Thomas Jefferson Chapter, the Patrick
Henry Chapter and the
Tidewater Chapter.

Gridiron Secret Society,
University of Georgia Mother
Chapter (est. 1908).

The Greatest Organization on

.

 

 

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI °

opinions

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

To B a kid

New York is ﬂight to “Plan B ”

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR
There are many rites of passage in a
young teenage girl’s life. The ﬁrst day of
high school. The ﬁrst time she gets be-
hind the wheel of a car. Her ﬁrst date.

The ﬁrst time the school nurse offers her .

birth control...

That is, so long as she lives in New
York City. Students in over 50 public
NYC high schools now have access to
birth control as a result of an initiative
to put an end to the teenage pregnancy
epidemic. The New York Post reports
that 28% of students beginning high
school in NYC have had sex. 7,000 girls
younger than I7 were pregnant last year,
64% of whom aborted their pregnancies.

 

That means that 2,200 girls not yet old
enough to vote suddenly had someone
calling them “mommy.” 70% of these
girls stopped showing up to classes.

Perhaps it was this startling real-
ization which had Board of Education
members clamoring for a more effective
solution than the condoms which schools
already dole out in oversized ﬁshbowls.
Obviously, the old plan wasn’t working.

And so they went to Plan B.

Plan B emergency contraception is
a form of birth control that women can
take after having sex. When used with-
in 72 hours of intercourse, the pill is
90% effective at preventing pregnancy.
Sometimes called

  
  
  

 

R‘ °"IY W woinen  .
younger than age '17 ’ f

 One Tablet‘
~. I One Dose .~
within 72 hqu,:?;5:ial;s,
3"" Unprotected sex; ’

e 5°°"9I You take ‘I
bate I . lI'l(‘
will view" all °"°‘5“‘P

1 Trilljlet
L?‘V0".maesIrel 1,43,-r. .

.___

 

again...

the “morning-after pill,” Plan B works
thanks to the use of a hormone called
levonorgestrel, which has now circulat-
ed through the bloodstreams of at least
576 girls as young as 14 in NYC high
schools.

While pills can cost between $10 and
$70 at a clinic, there is no charge if a
student gets them from the school nurse.
Furthermore, this isn’t your over-the-
counter kind of drug. Teenagers under
17 years old need a prescription from
their pediatrician to have access to Plan
B. But high schools don’t bother with
such things—in fact, the students’ par-
ents don’t even have to know.

The idea is that parents can sign an
“opt-out” form, which means that, if
their daughter happens to be sexu-
ally active and possibly pregnant,
they’ll at least get a phone call. But
without that piece of paper, schools
now have free reign to pass out pills
to whomever they like. According
to the NYC Health Department,
only 2% of parents have signed this
form.

Now, some people may say that
such a program only encourages
teenagers to have sex. Some may
say that this kind of under-the-
table drug dealing fosters commu-
nication problems between parents
and their teenagers where sex is
concerned. Some may even say
that this new initiative provides a
false safety-net for teenagers who

no longer believe that unprotected sex is
a big deal, since they are just one visit
to the nurse’s office away from being in
the clear.

However, there is another school of
thought which takes into account that in
2010, teen pregnancy reached its lowest

dents may. overlook the fact that Plan B
does not protect against sexually trans-
mitted infections and that schools may
only be using this program as a tem-
porary Band-Aid while forgoing much
more important programs like sexual
education.

The idea is that parents can sign an “opt—out” form,

which means that, if their daughter happens to be

sexually active and possibly pregnant, they ’ll at

least get a phone call.

 

rate since 1946 (according to the Center
for Disease Control). Since making con-
doms available to ‘students seems to be
working, why not offer another form of
birth control‘?

Of students polled at W&L, the ma-
jority found the program to be a non-is-
sue. Considering the fact that pregnancy
can be a far worse fate to a young girl
than the risks associated with Plan B—
namely, nausea, abdominal pain, dizzi-
ness, and a whole host of other ﬂu—like
symptoms~most students found that
this was a warranted preventative mea-
sure in a city where teenage pregnancy is
so common. There were fewer students
who found that the potential for harm
outweighed the beneﬁts, given that stu-

Maybe there’s a middle ground here.
Perhaps this new program is on the right
track. After all, teenage pregnancy is a
reality. Someone had to confront it soon-
er or later. The real problem with this is-
sue is that the program seems to operate
the way pot deals do—under a fog of se-
crecy and risk. Maybe there should be an
“opt—in” form, so that parents are kept in
the loop. Maybe one of the stipulations
in getting Plan B should be attendance in
a sexual education class, rather than just
“ﬁxing” the problem by freely handing
out the pill, thereby cutting students off
from the need to become educated about
their own sexuality. If birth control is
a necessity in today’s world, at least it
doesn’t have to be a barrier.

“Aporkalypsez” Save your bacon

A grand review of the country with 40 days left before the election

By Victoria Bell
STA F F w R IT E R
Facts are stubborn little things. Some
quick poll numbers: 53% favor the re-
peal of the health care law, 35% say

the most important issue to Americans
with healthcare, government ethics and
corruption, taxes, and education fol-

However we have a sitting president who has yet

to resemble a "commander in chief ” We have a

“campaigner in chief

U.S. is heading in the right direction,

and 64% think too many Americans are

dependent on government ﬁnancial aid.
The economy continues to rank as

lowing closely behind. On the economy
50% trust Romney, 43% trust Obama.
So in this election, we are looking at the
remaining 7% who have not yet made

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM
PAT MCOARRON
LISA STOISER

SARAH WARD
DESIGN EDITORS JULIA LANG
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER AL-LIE WEISS

COY FERRELL
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS
DON DONNELLAN

MISSION STATEMENT: It Is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty.
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

up their
minds, or
4-4 WPSI-l1NGDONANDI.EEUNIVERSITY ———————j— trust mi-
ther.
HE ING-TUM HI. Note-I
worthy: In
MANAGING EDITOR IULIANNA SATTERLY Wiscon-
NEws EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY sin, mili-
OPINIONS EDITOR JP BEALL tary vot-
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR CYNTHIA LAM erg were
sronrs EDITOR LEIGH DANNHAUSER provided
HEAD corv EDITOR GRAHAM COLTON the mew
GUEST wItIrEIIs MAUREEN NALEPA ;:,°tw:iaCt,f
DAVID THOMAS their ba]_
STAFF WRITERS VICTORIA BELL 1 h d
HAMLET roar ' “S a
SHELBY I=LoR"Es ‘°_ be re‘
CAROLINE HAMP C81-Val
IIAILEY HARTLEY The Fed-
HANNAH HOWARD eral Vot-

ing Assistance Program said ballots had
to be returned by November I6 when
the deadline is actually at 4pm on No-
vember 9. So, any ballots received in the
time between November 9 and 16 would
not be counted, possibly creating a large
number of disenfranchised voters.

In other news, Obama has Inade ap-
pearances on David Letterman and The
View, yet he is declining meetings with
foreign leaders like Israeli Prime Min-

ister Benjamin Netanyahu. How many .

times has Obama been on The View?
How often has Obama attended his daily
brieﬁngs? How many games of golf has
the President played since being in of-
ﬁce?

Don’t get me wrong - I think you
need to work hard and play hard, too.
Yet, when you have four years as the
POTUS, your life is a bit of an excep-
tion for those four years (i.e. it’s not all
fun and games). Personally, I’m tired of
watching the President on The View talk
about himself as “eye candy”, and then
when I hear a 30 second news blurb of
Obama declining meetings with foreign
leaders and then a 15 minute segment
beating the dead horse of Romney’s
tax returns, my nerves are vexed. As
POTUS, this is not acceptable. There is
little to zero accountability. If he was ac-
cepting the meetings in addition to going
on The View, that’s different. However,
we have a sitting president who has yet

 Joy Behar 5
1 J

. ,._ ,_.

.. =_._"_',,_.,
f:IlI.»-’ .-
..- 1

3' Follow

C'lZIE1ITIEl is beirig bashed for doirlg the it-‘is.-.w in.-3tean:l of
1'rIeetir1g wcrrld leaders. I-rlajirbe he-.'d rather talk to rue
than I\letan§,ral1u. Ever thinlz. of that?‘

‘¢"‘ ‘r;‘}ll",'  ?v";‘::1~." U’.

to resemble a “commander in chief.” We
have a “campaigner in chief.”

According to the Hulﬁngton Post
and the White House, Obama has not
met with the jobs council in six months
because he’s had too much on his plate.
Let’s talk common sense for one second,
folks. The POTUS is declining meetings
with foreign leaders in a time of inter-
national turmoil and reportedly has “too
much on his plate” to meet with thejobs
council for six months, yet the POTUS
has made regular appearances on The
View as recent as this week? I don’t care
what ideology you believe or who you
support, this doesn’t add up. Unless you,
like Behar, ﬁnd The View of greater im-
portance than meeting with foreign lead-
ers in a time of international turmoil.

Maybe Obama thinks the Middle
East turmoil is just another “bump in the
road.”

In other news, save your bacon,
people. A worldwide pork shortage is

expected in the coming year. Twitter fa-
natics are calling it the “aporkaIypse."
This shortage is expected as a result of
the recent severe drought conditions that
negatively affected this year’s corn and
soybean crop. My prediction? Expect
your gas prices and overall grocery bill
to sky rocket, too.

>

 

Attention‘ Seniors and Young Alumni!

Join us at the Wine Tasting & BBQ on Cannan Green this
Saturday from 6:30pm — 9pm, as we welcome back our
Young Alumni for Young Alumni Weekend 2012.

It will be a great time to reconnect with old friends and
the W&L family, eat great BBQ, taste local wines & beers
and listen to a great band.

Be sure to pre—register on Wednesday or Thursday in
the Elrod Living Room, 9:00am - 3:30pm. Doing this will let 
you enter the event faster! 

Thank you for making this weekend a success, and _for*_

your contributions to W&L.

Alumni Affairs and University Development.

Ci

.9

 

  

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

5 " THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&|if

 

Where the wild things are...

Lisa Stoiser ﬁnds herself face-to-face with the wild side during a spontaneous day trip to the Virginia Safari Park

By Lisa Stoiser
STAFF WRITER

We’ve stopped the car and left it to
idle, somewhere in the third and last mile
of a gravel road that winds through 180
acres of the beautiful green, blue, and
gray layers of the Shenandoah Valley. A
balmy breeze blows over the scene and
plays with the little tuﬁs of grass that
haven’t yet been mowed over by the qui-
etly grazing herd of Watusi cattle. It’s a
wonder that the occasional cow head is
able to rise from the ground to chew... it
seems like the two enormous horns that
grace the Watusis’ heads would be heavy
enough to make even these large animals
living plows. The little I4-page “safari
giide” we’re given says the horns can
span up to eight feet and weigh up to 100
pounds - each.

Suddenly, the breeze picks up, and the
clouds that had made such a pleasant
backdrop for the scene turn the kind of
gray I remember from cleaning too many
colors off my paint brushes in a glass of
water. Thunder starts to roll from some-
where near, and all of the Watusi cattle
stop their grazing to give us an accu-
satory look. One guy, a big, muscular
dude decorated in red and white patches
with horns thicker than my thighs, starts
to make a run straight towards us. The
other dozen or so cattle follow behind,
and for a moment I know exactly what

‘Simba felt when the wildebeests came

running.
Fortunately, Virginia Safari Park is an
attraction to be experienced from the

safety of a car. We just put the car back

_ into gear and continued down the gravel

road to enjoy the rest of the park, as the
cattle raced to their shelter somewhere
behind us. It had been an adventurous
day trip... within a few hours we had
nearly been trampled by traditionally Af-
rican cattle, slobbered on by zebras, and
spit on by emus. After concluding our
drive, we got out of the car and checked
out the Safari Village, where we got to
pet kangaroos, chase peacocks, and roar
with tigers.

If you can stomach the sadness of a
zoo, where animals live at the mercy of
their keepers and their rather unusual
cage mates in wildly foreign environ-
ments, then Virginia Safari Park is not

such a terrible place to spend a Saturday
afternoon. The animals all seem healthy

and happy to put on a show for visitors,‘

and 30 minutes in front of a cage of bril-
liant primates can provide years of phi-
losophizing material for kids and adults
alike.

Need a philanthropic incentive? The
park will open its gates and donate their
entire day’s proceeds to purchase new
winter coats for children in need in the
Rockbridge County area on November
23.

Virginia Safari
Park Additional

Information:
Rates.‘ $15.00 per adult
Hours.‘ Open 9 am-5:30 pm.
Gates to safari area close at
4pm.

Directions: Take I-81 S. After
7. 7 miles, take exit 1 808 for
US-1 I N. Continue on Oak
Bank Drive until turning right
onto Killdeer Lane. C heck
outvirginiasafaripark.com for
more info.

Hey there, “Will you be my Nabor?”

Students from W&L and VMI came together on Nabors Service Day for an afternoon of “naborly ” volunteer work

By Caroline Hamp
STAF F WRITER

On Saturday afternoon, Washington
and Lee and Virginia Military Institute
students joined forces in volunteer ef-
forts all over Rockbridge County for this
year’s annual Fall Nabors Service Day.

Nabors Service League (NSL) origi-
nated thirteen years ago in honor of
Jonathan Nabors. During his ﬁrst year
at W&L, he passed away in a tragic car
accident. A highly-involved, dedicated
student, he was well known for his
good intentions and is now remembered
through the spirit of service. The goal of
NSL, which was established by his fami-
Iy in his memory, is to continue to spread
his generous and happy nature through
various projects and events. NSL strives
to connect W&L students with the great-
er volunteer and non-profit community
of Rockbridge County.

Mr. Eddie and Doris Nabors, Jona-
than’s parents, attend the Nabors Service
Days each year, and this time was no dif-
ferent. Throughout the afternoon, they
stopped by the various volunteer sites
and got to know the people in the com-
munity. Each site was full of joy and
generosity (Mr. Nabors’ favorite site is
Boxerwood Gardens), but there was also
an attitude of solemnity. In remember-
ing their son, the community both hon-

ors and mourns the loss of a loved in-
dividual.

“Jonathan loved this place,” said Mr.
Nabors, referring not only to W&L, but
to the area as a whole.

This year, NSL teamed up with VMI
for the first time, and the outcome was
overwhelmingly positive. The NSL
Special Events Staff included Kathryn
Marsh-Soloway ‘I3 and Natsumi Alva-
rez ‘I5 from W&L and Hunter Harvey
‘ 14 from VMI. Only with their coopera-
tion was Saturday’s event possible.

“I think that having service as the
common goal created a fantastic atmo-
sphere,” said NSL General Co-Chair
Kendre Barnes ‘13. “The differences
that we all seem to notice faded as we
worked together, and we took the time to
get to know one another.”

Combining W&L and VMI led to an
incredible amount of student involve-
ment, with over I30 students partici-
pating on Saturday. The unexpectedly
large turnout resulted in even more stu-
dents than t-shirts! (Speaking of t-shirts,
NSL got punny this year: under a head-
shot of Mr. Rogers, the t-shirt read, “Will
you be my Nabor?”).

With incredible strength in numbers,
NSL headed into Rockbridge County

to multiple site assignments. Groups of
students attended to different non-proﬁts
in the area, which including everything
from the SPCA Animal Shelter to Habi-
tat for Humanity to the Woods Creek
Montessori, to complete many much-
needed projects and tasks.

The day of volunteering was long, but
rewarding. The local non-proﬁt commu-
nity welcomed the students with open
arms and said good-bye with grateful
smiles. The group at Maury River Se-
nior Center was even thanked with tasty
ice cream bars as a token of appreciation.

After multiple hours of working, all
the participants gathered at the BDG
Quad for a barbeque dinner and live mu-
sic provided by Drew Martin ‘ 13, Steven
Stites ‘I3, and Keith Trump ‘ I4, provid-
ing the perfect opportunity to relax, un-
wind, and reflect on a meaningful day of
service.

NSL’s biggest events of the year are the
Fall and Spring Nabors Service Days,
but it doesn’t end there. Throughout the
year, NSL is determined to spread the
spirit of service and connect W&L with
the Rockbridge community.

If you are interested in participating in
a bit of ‘volunteer work, or just want to
get to know some of the non-profits in

Tahe a BITE out cfﬁex

for a restaurant that has sandwiches called
"I)irt_\ Ilarry" and a menu longer than my
sure knows how to keep “lo-

arm. ’\/Iacado

bacon, lettuce, and tomato.

Many sandwiches on the menu are no
more than eight dollars, and with the Inany

CS.

     
 

 

, v ..

the area, check out the Nabors Service
League online at www.wlu.edu/x29569.
xm/. Filling out a volunteer proﬁle is a

Students lending a helping hand

  
    

on Nabors Service Day.
Rachael Samuels/GUEST CONTRIBUTOR

day!

quick and easy way to get involved to— j

The downstairs of Macado‘s includes some
booth seating in the bustling bar area. where

 

cal" and "last - the top two adjectives that
dcsc“be it perfectly. Right in the heart of
Lexi gton on Main Street, this Virginia chain
restaurant takes the very best of local histori-
cal moments and every 4L PN channel to cre-
ate an atmosphere that every college student
should experience.

The extensive menu stretches on and on.
combining creative sandwich names with
huge tariety. Theres no way.you could
eat your way through this menu in a year,
let alone the four that tnost students spend
in Lexington. Its easy to pick favorites as
well. mine being the “Tonto," two buttered

buns holding together a tasty
cotnbination of
breaded chick-
en, honey
mustard,

specials and offers that Macado's serves up
daily. a two-person meal could easily end up
being less than 25 dollars with tip. For the
health-conscious diners, the salads are hearty
and come with a wide selection of dressing
options. The KC Mac and Cheese. a popu-
lar entree which combines creamy macaroni
and cheese with broccoli and grilled chicken.
is a nice change from the normal sandwich
choices and is a favorite among customers.
On Mondays. you can expect to find
yourself with stic fingers after enjt ‘lug
thirty-five cent win The specials change
from half- ‘ed spinach and artichoke dip
on Thursday (which I happily enjoyed with
lightl_v seasoned pita bread) to “Kids Eat
Free" 4pm to 9pm on Tuesday. The servers
know the never-ending Incnu well and can
give good opinions on food and drink choic-

you‘ll always be sure to spot some VMI ca-
dets and locales enjoying a night out in town.
A quieter mood is offered upstairs and outside
on the balcony, which comes with a beautiful
view of Lexington. Of course. Macado‘s of-
fers a nightlife option as well, and if you‘re
under 21. you won‘t be allowed in after I()
pm.

Fora simple SI I .90, I enjoyed splitting an
already half price appetizer with a friend. a
“Tonto“ sandwich, and still managed to leave
an I 8 percent tip. Considering the tnore heav-
ily priced restaurants in Lexington. Macado‘s
offers a more suitable, college student-
fricndly environment along with a tantaliz-
ingly long menu that can keep even the picki-
est eaters smiling.

RELIABLE ANAD AFFORDAB

SPEEDING
DUIS '

LE LEGAL REPRESENTATION
RECKLESS DRIVING

 

OOOOOO

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS
CAR ACCIDENTS
CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS

SHEILAMOHEBMOIIEBLEGALCOM - (540) 520-7355

 

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI '

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

sports

 



Abell-ity to T

W&L s new football head coach proves to be a versati

By Pat Mccarron
5 TA F F w R IT E R

“A few weeks ago I celebrated my 67th
birthday and on that day I found myself
pausing and reﬁecting on my life’s jour-
ney. 1 have been coaching for 45 years
and it feels like it is the right time to re-
tire.”

After 17 years of coaching Washington
and Lee’s "football team, Frank Miriello
retired this past January. Under normal
circumstances, this would have cata-
lyzed a mass search to ﬁll the void ofthe
vacant head coach position. Luckily for
W&L, the football team needed only to
look within its system to ﬁnd the perfect
match.

Scott Abell had spent six years as head
coach at Amherst County High School
before coming to W&L as the offensive

coordinator in 2008. Abell said his aim
was to get his foot in the door hoping
one to day become head coach of a col-
lege football team. Abell did more than
just that. He made an immediate and
sustained impact during his three years
in this position, bringing to W&L what
he describes as a “unique offense.” The
team’s average yards and points per
game increased steadily throughout his
tenure. 1

» Abell’s promotion to Assistant Head
Coach in 2011 was a sign of things to
come. After Miriello’s retirement W&L
picked the experienced Abell as head
coach. Abell said that the promotion was
“a desire I ’ve always had.” The prospect
of coaching in three different positions

in as many years seems daunting, but
Abell says the transition was as “smooth
as I could’ve imagined.” This was due in
part to Abell’s relationship with Miriello.
Miriello gave him a leg up by granting
him liberties to exert his own leadership
from the positions of offensive coordina-
tor and assistant head coach.

While Abell’s coaching abilities were
unaffected as his role on W&L’s foot-
ball team shifted, the relationship he had
with his players inevitably would. The
offense had already recognized Abell as
their leader, but he has taken pains to en-
sure that the defense would as well. Dur-
ing preseason practices he paid special
attention to the defense, getting more
involved in the areas he previously had

ransition

le replacement for Miriello

not. It was important that he built trust,
and he did just that. Abell met with each
defensive player individually so that
each player understood his speciﬁc role.
Now, according to Abell, his relationship
with his defense is analogous to that of
his offense.

The W&L football team is 3-1 under
Abell’s reign, and the Generals have
a promising year of football ahead of
them. Abell and company will take the
ﬁeld against Emory and Henry this Sat-
urday at home.

3

Courtesy of W&L Sports Infor-
mation

    

Heinsohn breaks scorin

Football easily defeats Guilford in their ﬁrst ODAC matchup .

Bysarah Ward
STAFF WRITER

Washington & Lee’s senior running

‘ back Luke Heinsohn scored three touch-

downs and completed six extra point at-
tempts to score 24 of the Generals’ 42
points in a 21 point win over Guilford in
Greensboro, NC on Saturday night.

Heinsohn’s effort breaks the previous
all-time scoring record at W&L with a
total of 228 career points, edging out
Marc Watson by eight points, whose re-
cord stood since 2001.

Junior quarterback Nick Lombardo
posted the ﬁrst points on the board for
the Generals with a l-yard touchdown
run with 13:43 left in the second quar-
ter. The lead was increased to fourteen
as senior running back Sasha Vandalov
rushed for a touchdown from four yards
out with 8:44 left in the half. The Gener-
als entered the locker room at halftime
with a 21-0 lead after Heinsohn scored
his ﬁrst touchdown of the night from

 

thirteen yards out with only 3:43 left in
the half.

Heinsohn continued his dominance by
scoring the ﬁrst two touchdowns of the
second half, ﬁnding the end zone with
12:47 and 0:36 left in the third quarter.
The Generals’ sixth and ﬁnal touchdown
was scored by junior quarterback Luke
Tema on a 45-yard run with six minutes
left in the game.

W&L recorded 426 rushing yards out

of 505 total yards with Heinsohn record-
ing 146 yards on the ground and senior
running back Brett Murray contributing
104 yards.

The Generals’ defense was led by se-
nior safeties Jake Pelton and Russell
Stewart. Pelton made eight tackles while
Stewart recorded four tackles and made
an interception.

Guilford scored all three of their touch-
downs in the fourth quarter, marking

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

their ﬁrst points against the Generals in
seven quarters.

The Generals (3-1) are now 1-0 in Old
Dominion Athletic Conference compe-
tition. W&L continues ODAC action
against Emory & Henry on Saturday af-
ternoon at 1:30pm for the Homecoming
contest.

 

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITE R

The Washington & Lee volleyball team
finished last weekend 3-1 after a tough
.—mid-week loss to Randolph-Macon.
With the victories, the Generals improve
to a 14-6 overall record.
“ On‘ Wednesday ﬁrst-year defensive
specialist Kasey Cannon and junior
outside hitter M.A. Boles led the W&L
defense with 10 digs apiece but the Ran-
dolph-Macon offense successfully shut
down the Generals. Only senior right
"side hitter Taylor Maxey was able to
reach a .300 kill percentage in the match.
Boles said that Randolph-Macon ran
an offense similar to W&L’s with fast
sets and strong hitters spread throughout
the front and back row. Senior outside
. hitter Mallory Carter, junior middle hit-
ter Tori Puryear, and ﬁrst-year middle
hitter Katie Rossberg led the Yellow
Jacket charge against the Generals.
“Two days after the Randolph-Macon
match, the W&L volleyball team trav-

Courtesy of W8iL Sport Information

eled to Washington, D.C. to play four
non-conference matches in the Gallan-
det Worthington Classic.

In the ﬁrst match at the tournament,
Boles recorded her 1,000 career kill at
W&L in a 3-2 loss to Geneva. She be-
comes only the ninth player in W&L
historyto reach that number. Boles cur-
rently has 1,055 kills in her three-year
‘career.

After the loss to Geneva on Friday, the
Generals defeated Shenandoah, Mes-
siah, and Trine to ﬁnish the weekend 3-1
at the Worthington Classic. Many play-
ers contributed in the victories because
the Generals were limited to only eight
of their 14-player roster due to injuries
and illness.

Boles says the team will focus on re-
covery this weekend so they can be pre-
pared for their next match at Christopher
Newport on Tuesday at 7 p.m.

Boles reaches milestone

Boles kills ]‘,000th over the weekend while the Generals go 4-] on the week

  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
   

 

 

Get li7nI(-aslnctl at B Ll5(‘...

IA-xiI|,L,tuII’s Only .‘Ii('l'()l)l'(‘\\'(‘l’)!

BUE 

BREWING COMPANY

No Serving
Pints & Cask Ale

Oktoberfest Now on Tap

IBI1-\\‘c|'y and Tap Ronni
123 S. Randolph St, Lexington, VA

Tap Room Hours:

and as needed... check our website...
www.b|uelabbrewing.com
facebook: Blue Lab Brewing Co., LLC

  
 



AB

     
   

 

540-45 8-Ol 46

Wed 4:30—7 p.m.
Fri 4:30-7:30 p.m.
Sat 2-5 p.m.

    

jh

g record .

 

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012 7 . THE Rm‘,-,.1'uM pm .

 

 

KYLE JAEGIER HAILEY IlAl{'l‘LEY
The Miami Heat became NBA champions in one of the “Not one, not two, not-three, not four...” we all know
most exciting Finals match-ups of the decade. As the play- how it ends. LeBron James was a little hyped at the party
offs progressed, you could almost sense a sort of divine they threw for his and Chris Bosh’s arrival in South Beach,
intervention. It was inevitable that the Heat and Thunder and proclaimed that the Miami Heat would win at least eight
would meet in a clash of the titans. Ultimately, the Heat championships With his arrival. And this is after his prime-
came out victorious, winning in ﬁve games in the highest . _ V _ i _ A .. time appearance when he crushed the hearts in every fan in I
1. rated ﬁve game ﬁnals sin_ce 2004. vlnitiegent Years NBA fr3~nCh1Se_$;haVe,been_5 , one of the unluckiest sports cities in America. Since then
The trio of LeBron James, Dwayne Wade‘, and Chris putting S“Per§‘a“‘°“ the 5a“.‘°1team l.n,the1r ' we’ve seen Chris Paul attempt to move to the Lakers, and
, , attempts to wm charn ionshrps. Is this good .
Bosh came together in the summer of 2010, creating a po— . for the eague? A Dwight Howard and Steve Nash successfully make the move.
larizing effect that no one could have seen coming. On , e , _, The NBA has gone absolutely crazy, and while the personnel
the day that will live in infamy as “The Decision”, LeB- Kyle and Hailey give you their take. m0VeS may be great for the Lakers and the Heat: tl1eY’Te tel‘
ron James became the arch-nemesis of almost every non- ' I rible for the NBA. '
Miami NBA fan in the world, “I seemed to be an outlier ‘ LeBron James is arguably the most talented player in the
on this matter; I celebrated LeBron James for his decision. For the ﬁrst time, one of NBA right now, and yet he needs to surround himself with Dwayne Wade and Chris Bosh
the best players in the league took matters into his own hands. James refused to sub- to win a championship. -They set themselves up as the villains (and wear fake glasses
ject his future to the wills of owners and executives. How can one blame James for While doing it). ‘ We’re forced to Watch them on TV non-Stop; and they’re always expected
teaming up with two of his closest friends (both superstars in the league) to chase a to win. Yeah sure, those are some high expectations, but they brought it upon themselves.
,. championship? I welcomed the decision! I would rather watch the Heat than a smaller The Lakers are in a Very similar situation, With about 100 years of extra experience, but
1 market team like the Bucks or the Timberwolves 10 times out of 10. It was exciting maybe I’m exaggerating. No one wants to see these teams win. Dwight Howard has set
to me that James had single handedly shifted the power in the league, No longer were - himself out as a selﬁsh diva, though maybe that will change in LA. It’s hard to judge how
players trapped, taken advantage of by front ofﬁce ﬁgures and miserable on the court, the moves will play out. Did I mention the Lakers 150 million dollar per season TV deal?
LeBron James gave superstars freedom! But honestly, is there anyone who’s not a *cough, bandwagon* Heat fan who watched the
After the Heat won the championship this season, I think more fans started to un- ﬁnals this year and thought, “Yeah, I’d like them to Win.”
derstand my position. Player movement has increased greatly, and this offseason we Smaller market teams are ultimately paying the price as Well. We haVe seen some of
saw two teams form their own “superteams.” The Nets ﬂirted with Dwight Howard these teams make a statement; the Oklahoma City Thunder made it to the ﬁnals this year,
all summer, eventually settling for a nucleus of Deron Williams, Gerald Wallace, and Which Was huge. Kevin Durant is an amazing player, Who deserves to Win a champion-
Joe Johnson. The Lakers landed the biggest names, adding Dwight Howard and Steve ship, and most likely will within the next year or two. Who’s to say that Durant won’t
(. Nash to their alreadyiimpressive roster_ These big name moves also beneﬁted small want to move in a couple years when his contract runs out? If elite players continue to
market teams _ the 76ers added Andrew Bynum, and the Nuggets received Andre stack themselves on teams it may be less possible for these smaller market teams to win
Iguodala through a trade. Championships:
We should not kid ourselves -.a select few teams have always dominated the NBA. And who can argue the stupidity of players joining together Without a quick mention
The “big three’s” of teams like the Spurs and the Celtics have dominated in recent of players like Michael Jordan, and Larry Bird? Both won multiple championships after
history. The only difference now is that players have a larger Voice in when, where, joining teams With less than stellar records. The average fan could probably name Scot-
and with whom these “big three’s” are formed NBA players are notoriously ﬁckle — tie Pippen and Dennis Rodman as teammates of Jordan, but how many people can name
just look at Howard— which means we can look forward to more and more movement_ teammates of Bird? These guys took good teams and made them elite. The ’86 Celtics and
The league will get shaken up each and every offseason. And for fans that refuse to ’90-’92 Bulls Will go doWn in history as some of the greatest Championship runs. ,
accept this progression, praising "instead the Thunder’s success through the draft, all I Would‘Bird, Jordan, and Magic Johnson have come together and created their own big
can say is good luck, The Thunder are not a model, they are an anomaly, three? Unlikely. Will anything but a championship be acceptable in Miami while BOSh,
Fans, we are witnessing a revolution in the NB A. Instead of griping about Wade, and James play together? Absolutely not. Is the concept of a “big three” dangerous
“big market teams”, we should buy NBA season pass! This could be one of the most to the players’ legacies and the NBA as a Whole? Without a doubt.
exciting decades in the history of the league! The Heat have risen to the top, prov-
ing that “superteams” can be successful — embrace it! Let’s all cross our ﬁngers for a
Heat-Lakers ﬁnals!

 

 

XC takes 7th at Don
Cathcart Invite

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

FH finishes week 1-1

Hampsch scores game winner against Roanoke on Tuesday

 

"'0 By Shelby Flores
, _ s TA F F w R IT E R
Thomas leads the way for the Generals zn
By Bailey Russell .
s TA F F w R IT E R
The Washington and Lee men’s cross Sophomore James Busch came
country team placed seventh out of four- in third for the Generals, taking 56th
teen teams at the Don Cathcart Invite on place in 28:01.00. First-year Levi War-
Saturday. Wilmington took the top spot ring came in 60th in 28:01.00, and Jake
with 34 points, Franklin& Marshall took Mack, also a ﬁrst-year, rounded out
second with 71 points, and host Salis- W&L’s scoring in 61st at 28:07.00. .
bury placed third with 72 points. W&L Men’s cross country will compete '
ﬁnished with 204 points. next at the Desales Invitational on Oc-
l. Junior Kane Thomas ﬁnished ﬁrst for tober 13, their ﬁnal meet before the Old
W&L in 23rd at 26:48.00. Scott Sugden, Dominion Athletic Conference Champi-
a sophomore, placed 52nd with a time of onships.
27:48.00.
0.
Courtesy of W&L Sports lnformatlon
After falling behind 2-0 the Washing- First-year goalkeeper Megan Axelrod Generals took 11 shots with four on goal
ton & Lee ﬁeld hockey team could only started off the ﬁrst 16:24 for W&L. Se- while Roanoke took seven shots with
pull within one point in their 2-1 loss at nior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne played the three on goal.
. Wilson last Saturday. The loss drops the ﬁnal 53:36 and tallied four saves. Axelrod and Kyne each played a half

 

    

ortesy f & Sports Information

Generals to a 3-6 overall record.

Senior forward Maggie Sipps scored
both goals for Wilson. Sipps’s goal in the
ﬁrst half was assisted by junior midﬁeld-
er Megan Schneck. Sophomore forward
Hillary Swartz recorded the assist for
Sipps’s second score.

“Wilson’s offense was very scrappy
and played with a lot of heart,” sopho-
more defender Mary Virginia Long said.
“After their ﬁrst goal, [our] defense
quickly adjusted and made it very difﬁ-
cult for them to get shots off and score.”

Although they lost to Wilson, the
Generals improved their conference re-
cord to 1-1 earlier in the week with a vic-
tory over Roanoke last Tuesday.

Junior defender Riley Hampsch
scored the only game of the contest 15:56
into the ﬁrst half. Hampsch deﬂected the
ball on a penalty corner for the score. It
was Hampsch’s ﬁrst career goal in 41
games for the Generals. »

_The Generals decisively controlled
the game and had 21 penalty comers
compared to only three for Roanoke The

of the game. Axelrod made one save in
the ﬁrst half and Kyne had two saves in
the second half.

“We will continue to improve,” Long
said. “We are continuing to grow and
learn as a team, and we are looking for-
ward to a successful rest of the season.”

The Generals return to conference
play at Lynchburg College on Wednes-
day at 5 p.m. and will return home to
play Eastern Mennonite on Saturday at
12 p.m. on the W&L Turf Field.

 

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -’

sports

 

M O N DAY, OCTOBER 1, 2012

in the numbers
6

The total number of turnovers that the Buffalo Bills had
against the New England Patriots on Sunday. The Patriots
came back from a 21-7 deﬂcit in the third quarter to win
52-28.

This is also the total number of turnovers that the Kansas
City chiefs had against the San Diego Chargers. Chiefs
quarterback Matt Cassel got picked off three times in the

37-20 loss.

55&5

The total number of yards that Miami University quarterback

‘Stephen Morris threw for on Saturday. it is an Atlantic Coast

Conference record. Morris threw five touchdowns, including
a game winning 62 yard touchdown to Phillip Dorsett with
19 seconds left. Miami defeated North Carolinastate 44-

37.

J30:aruiz10

Los Angeles Angels’ center ﬁelder Mike Trout hit his 30th
home run on Sunday, becoming the first rookie to hit 30
home runs and steal 40 bases in a season. He is just two

stolen bases shy of another record: becoming the third
player in MLB history to have 30 home runs and 50 stolen
bases. Only Eric Davis in 1987 and Barry Bonds in 1990

have done it so far.

A 23

The number of games in a row that the Atlanta Braves have
won with Kris Medlen starting for them. This is the longest

such streak in the modern era of the major leagues.

tsoapbox

“Tonight was a season—deﬁning game for
us. We could have gone down big like that
and just packed it in, but that’s not this
team’s M. 0. That’s not how we approach
it.”

-}1anlreesrlgntﬂelderNlckSwIsheraflnrdefeadng
the ToronmBlueJqys9-6onSundqy. Theiankeesare
currenl1yl1edwithtlieBaltimoreOi1olesforilrstplaoe
In theAmei1can LeagueEaadMslon. 1heYankaes
oniyhaveoniya mreegameserieswlththeBostnn'
Redsaxathomeleftlntneseason, fmmESPN.oom

"We expect to score that many points in a
game, but the goal is to score more than
our opponent and we came up a little short
today.”

- Baylorquarlerback Nick Florenceaflier losing
70-Batowestvlrgnla. Floreneethrewilve
touehdawnsand 581yards, breaklngthe Baylor
record prevlouslyheld byRobertGr1flIn IlI,from
PN.eom

ondeck

G 0 I f W: Generals invite Day 1

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The men’s soccer team split two at home
this week, losing 2-1 against Ferrum on Tues-
day and shutting out Bridgewater 3-0 on Sat-
urday. The games bring Washington & Lee’s
record to 6-3 (3-1 ODAC).

Dave Phillips scored off ofa goal kick 25
seconds into the game versus Ferrum, but ul-
timately the fastest goal in Generals soccer
history wasn’t enough to win. The Panthers
scored two goals off of free kicks in the ﬁnal
ten minutes to tie and take the game.

The Generals had possession of the ball
throughout the game and took 21 shots, but
they were unable to overcome a strong Fer-
rum defense.

First-year goalkeeper Kieran McQuilkin

Soccer does the s

Generals lose on Tuesday before upsetting Bridgewater

 

Courtesy f W&L Sports lnformatin

had one save in the game for the Generals.

   

W&L came back from the loss to win a
huge game against Bridgewater, previously
undefeated in the ODAC. The Generals played
an aggressive game, keeping the Eagles to just
one shot on goal. Juniors Parker Wolﬁnger
and Alex Zelinski and sophomore Zach Colby
each contributed to the Generals’ total.

F irst-year Cary Carabasi, senior Basti
Richter, and sophomore Al Organ all contrib-
uted to a strong defensive effort. Sophomore

 Albert Civitarese made one save while spend-

ing the full game in the net for the Generals.

The Generals will play two more ODAC
contests this week, traveling to Shenandoah
on Wednesday for a 7 pm contest, and hosting
Lynchburg on Saturday at 3 pm.

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee was able to keep un-
defeated Lynchburg out of the net in a 0-0 tie
on Sunday.

Hosting team Lynchburg, ranked ninth in
the nation, was kept scoreless thanks to the
goalkeeping of ﬁrst-year Addie Healy. Healy
made eight saves while spending 110 minutes
in goal including three over the course of two
overtimes.

The Generals were outshot by the Hornets
19-10 but did have several opportunities to
score.

W&L had two close shots about 36 min-
utes into the game. Sophomore forward Katie

Rossi forced Lynchburg goal keeper Audrey
Moore to make a save.

Less than a minute later the Generals
earned a comer kick. Sophomore midﬁelder
Haley Ward was able to get the ball to se-
nior defender Alex Todd but Todd’s shot was
blocked by defenders.

Ward led the Generals in scoring attempts
with ﬁve followed closely by Rossi with three
ofher own.

Earlier in the week the Generals were able
to beat fellow Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence team Bridgewater at home. Ward struck
ﬁrst in the 17th minute and the Generals never

W&L keeps Lynchburg quiet

Lynchburg kept scoreless for the ﬁrst time all season in 0-0 tie

looked back, eventually winning 2- l.

Sophomore forward Katherine Rush added
on another goal in the 58th minute of play.

Healy made ﬁve saves in the contest, al-
lowing one in the 71st minute off a shot by
Paxton Sauerwald. '

After the week the Generals move to a 6-2-
1 overall record and a 4-1-1 ODAC record.
The Generals continue conference play this
week with a game at Roanoke on Wednesday
at 7 pm and hosting Eastern Mennonite on
Saturday at ll am.

By Leigh Dannhauser

SPORTS EDITOR

The women’s tennis team was able to
take both the singles and doubles champion-
ships at the [TA Regional Championships on
Monday. I

Sophomore Meghan Buell took the in-

"  dividual title for the Generals. in her ﬁrst

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

By Bailey Russell
STAFF warren

Short Run. Running at Lehigh University, the
Generals took the number one spot with 59
points. Eastern Mennonite took second with
88 points and Lebanon Valley came in third
with 178 points.

The Generals had three runners in the top
seven and seven runners in the top 30.

Senior Lauren Schultz, the top ﬁnisher this
season, led the Generals with a fourth-place
ﬁnish at 22:58. Fellow senior Molly Ortiz ﬁn-
ished seven seconds behind Shultz in ﬁfth at
23:05. Junior Annelise Madison took seventh
in 23:12.

F irst-year Rachel Solomon was the fourth
scorer for W&L in 19th at 24:05, and rounding
out the top ﬁve for the Generals Casey Mack-
intosh with a time of 24: l 0, good for 24th.
The other two Generals in the team’s top sev-
en were junior Brandie Huffman in 24:20 for
27th and ﬁrst-year Kaitlin Bonaro in 24:23 for
30th. -

The Generals have taken the top spot at
each of the three meets the team has competed
in this year,including the W&L Invitational
on Sept. 8.

Solomon commented on the success of

the team by saying, “lt’s really exciting, and

W: Generals Invite Day 2

 

XC takes to

Women win their third in three meets -

 match of the day Buell faced Katie Cecil

of Carnegie Mellon in the semiﬁnals. The
match was close and went to three sets. but

‘_i Buell pulled out the victory in 7-6 (5), 3-6,
., 6-l.

Buell then faced Elizabeth Martin, also

‘ of Carnegie Mellon. Buell was able to take

the match in two sets, 7-6 (2), 6-4, to secure

The women’s cross country team competes

 

oresy of L Sports information

3 i A A o
— Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

M: Ted Keller Memorial Day 1

Buell takes two titles

Women is tennis takes singles ’and doubles ’title at 1 TA Regionals

the championship.

‘Buell teamed up with juior Claire Cahill
in the doubles competition. In the champion-
ship match the duo faced Salisbury’s team of
Jillian Poppe and Natalie Savage. Buell and
Cahill took the match in 6-4, 3-6, 6-4, to take
the doubles’ title and Buell’s second regional
championship ofthe day.

Women’s tennis will continue their fall
season next week. They face Emory and Hen-
ry at Wofford College in a 10 am contest on
October 7.

port invitational.

 
  

M: Ted Keller Day 2

Volleyball

at CNU 7 pm

Field Hockey

at Lynchburg 5 pm

vs Eastern Mennonite 12 pm

M e n ’ s Te n n is lTA Regional Champs

Men’s Soccer

at Shenandoah 7 pm

vs Lynchburg 3 pm

women’s Soccer

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs Eastern Mennonite 11 am

vs Greensboro 1 pm

Football

vs Emory & Henry 1:30

plits ,

p spot again 

The women’s cross country team placed it makes us optimistic about our potential for next on October 13, at the Christopher New-
ﬁrst out of 34 teams on Saturday at the Paul the next meets.” ‘

 

