R55
v. ll

- ..
$78-75$

   

V\ 5 . 8

Fattfhshiowmdemskstgle  

A&L / page 8

  Al.Lt:hcv~/orlol is a stage.
And Professor Dobin is makingthe most of it. You'd
never guess that Michael Stewartwas channeling

good old William.

opinions / page 4

~   WASHINGTON AND LEE 

' THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5,2012

Taking action
with Hurricane
Sandy

By Yejean Kim
s TA F F w R I T E R

In light of Hurricane Sandy, the state of Virginia
took several precautionary measures to ensure the
safety of its residents. Governor Bob McDonnell de-
elared a state of emergency, ordering all state agen-
cies to be closed on Oct. 29.

Several schools also cancelled classes, including
nearby James Madison University and the Univer-
sity of Virginia. While Washington and Lee did not
cancel classes because it “did not suffer a serious
event," according to Director of Public Safety Mike
Young.

Sotne precautionary measures were taken in case
of other problems such as power loss. Registration
was pushed back in anticipation of “potential Inter-
net disruptions and power outages" in a schoolwide
email sent Oct. 29, and Public Safety also performed
“readiness procedures” ensuring that they were pre-
pared for a large storm, according to Young. These
procedures involve monitoring weather reports and
taking proper precautionary measures. However, as
the storm turned north. it did not affect W&L as an-
ticipated.

Young said that there was a “danger ofpower loss,”
but as some buildings have “generators or other
emergency power” this was not seen as constituting
an emergency. An emergency management plan is
published on the University website, and is updated
annually after "tabletop discussions” between an
emergency management team according to Assistant
Director of Public Safety Steve Tomlinson.

In case of a prolonged power outage, which was
the biggest threat expected from Hurricane Sandy.
this plan states that students should gather in the El-
rod University Commons as it has an “uninterrupt-
ible emergency power supply.”

As advice to students in light of future inclement
weather, Director Young advised: “Stay calm, fol-
low directions when given them, and remain close
to your residences so that you can be accounted for
should it be necessary to ﬁnd you. We will have
some winter weather this year that may cause some
school cancellations or delays. Just stay close to your
electronic devices and you will have the best oppor-
tunity to know what is going on. We provide a lot of
information electronically.“

Updates on inclement weather are provided both
on the University website, via the campus emergen-
cy hotline. and on WLUR 91.5, W&L’s radio station.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 8

Registration gets complicated

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

Due to the threat of severe weather
last week, Washington and Lee ad-
ministration made the decision to
postpone registration for winter term
courses. Course registration will
take place this week, beginning to-

In order to simplify the registration
process, Locy encourages her advi-
sees to complete their FDR require-
ments as well as their tnajor require-
ments as soon as possible.

“If you wait until your senior year

“It can be really tough to Coordinate schedules be-

cause there are a ﬁnite number of hours in the day

and there are a ﬁnite number offaculty members,

and there are going to be conflicts ”

Toni Locy, Journalism professor

morrow and continuing through Nov.
9, according to Scott Dittman of the
University Registrar’s Office.

Seniors will’ register on Tuesday,
juniors on Wednesday, sophomores
on Thursday and ﬁrst-years will coin-
plete course registration on Friday.
Registration times will remain the
same. beginning at 7 a.m. on each re-
spective date.

“Our concern was that there would
be power outages, no Internet access
or Internet interruptions, especially
for students who live out in the coun-
ty,” said Dittman. "Their temptation
might be to drive somewhere to get
an Internet connection and with the
possibility of high water, we didn’t
want to fool with any ofthat."

When it comes to course registra-
tion, accessing the Internet at the ex-
act time registration begins is some-
times only halfofthe battle. Students
at W&L can experience scheduling
conﬂicts, where two courses that they
are interested in meet at the same time
or overlapping times. According to
Reynolds Professor of Legal Report-
ing Toni Locy, scheduling conﬁicts
happen frequently with her advisees.

“It can be really tough to coordi-
nate schedules because there are a
ﬁnite number ofhours in the day and
there are a ﬁnite number of faculty
members, and there are going to be
conflicts,” Locy said. “At times it‘s a
logistical nightmare.”

to take a course you need, you are
asking for trouble." said Locy. “Un-
fortunately, that's what some students
do. and that”:; why students panic.”

In order to minimize scheduling dif-
Iiculty and determine the number of
sections to offer for a certain class,
Dittman explained that the Registrar
()tI’ice examines the history of en-

rollmcnt in particular courses. The

()fﬁcc also communicates withother
departments that indicate how many
students are of a certain major and
have to take a certain class required
to fulfill their degree.

When conllicts are unavoidable, the
1., willing to work with stu-
dents to figure out the best possible
solution. According to both Dittman
and Locy, students will discuss with
their professor the possibility ofleav—
ing one class early and arriving a few
minutes late to the subsequent class.

In special cases, students have the
option of taking a directed individual
study of a course. According to Ditt-
man, an example of such a situation
occurred this year when a student de-
clared a second major in the middle
of the fall term. One of the courses
required for that major was being
taught for the last time during the fall
term and the student could not coor-
dinate the course around her other
classes. She is instead working with
faculty to plan an independent study
for the winter term.

i‘ .i.
.;.\..iit\

According to Dittman, a directed
individual study can be designed in
several ways and is up to the faculty
member working with the student.

“Sometimes it involves indepen-
dent reading and discussion, a big
paper, or meeting with the professor
three times a week,” Dittman said.

The approach of each new term
brings changes and additions to the
course catalog. According to Dit-
tman, there is a tab on the W&L
course catalog website where stu-
dents can view a list of every catalog
revision for the academic year. The
page also lists deleted courses and
changes made to degree and major
requirements and can be accessed at
catalog.wlu.edu.

For major requirement changes,
Dittman noted that changes only ap-
ply to students who declare their
major under that year’s catalog. If

the changes result in a course being
deleted, the University must make ac-
commodations for the students who
declared their major under the previ-

ous catalog.

“If we delete a course, we have to
substitute it with another one and al-
low it to go towards your major re-
quirements,” Dittman said.

The list for spring term courses will
also be available for students to re-
view in the coming days. According
to Dittman, the most updated version
of the spring term course offerings
will be released this week.

Ditttnan said that he ﬁnds it dis-
appointing when students simply
choose a spring term course by word
of mouth because it limits them from
exploring the many different options
available.

“I think the problem is that people
hear this reputation of a course or a
faculty member and immediately
go to tunnel vision without looking
around at all the cool, new courses,”
Dittman said.

JULIANNA SATTERLY / EIC

It all comes down to Tuesday’s vote

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

After months of watching debates,
campaign advertisements and attending
last year’s Mock Convention, registered
voters will ﬁnally have the chance to
vote in the Presidential election on Tues-
day.

For those students who don’t know

where to vote, the precinct for Washing-
ton and Lee students is in the Piovano
Building at 350 Spotswood Drive (lo-
cated near Stonewall Jackson Hospital)
and is open tomorrow from 6 a.m. until
7 p.m. The voting precinct urges all stu-
dents to “bring everything you got” in

terms ofvoter registration cards, a valid
driver’s license and college ID cards.
There will be many different items on
the ballot aside from the all-important
Presidential election, including: a U.S.
Senate race, a U.S. House of Represen-
tatives race, a Lexington City Council

W&L is getting ready for the election on Tuesday. Students registered to vote in Lexington can vote
from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. There will be an Election Watch Party at the Hillel House at 8 p.m. on Tuesday.

race, the mayoral race and two separate
Virginia Constitution Amendments.

In the Senate race, Republican incum-
bent George Allen is running against
Democratic challenger Tim Kaine.

Washington and Lee Law graduate
Bob Goodlatte is the Republican incum-
bent candidate running against Andy
Schmookler for the 6th District of Vir-
ginia’s House seat.

In Lexington, Marylin Alexander,
Frank Friedman, Camille Miller and
John Morman are running for city coun-

of voting this week. “It is extremely im-
pottant that students vote, regardless of
their affiliation,” said Luther. “Democ-
racy cannot function without popular
participation.”

Another point of emphasis for Luther
was how important it is for young col-
lege students to vote.

“Studies show that if citizens are en-
gaged at a younger age in the process
they are more likely to continue that
trend into adulthood. If there is only one
thing from this past term I hope it’s that

“It is extremely important that students vote, re-

gardless of their aﬁiliation, ” sald Luther. “Democ-

racy can not function without popular participa-

1

tion. ’

Lex Luther, College Republicans President

cil. Mimi Elrod is facing off against
Mary P. Harvey-Halseth in the Mayoral
Election.

The two Virginia Constitutional
Amendments are Question I, which
would prohibit local governments from
using eminent domain for economic de-
velopment and job creation and require
the seizure of land to be used strictly as
public areas. Question 2 would allow the
General Assembly to delay its veto ses-
sion by up to a week to avoid sessions
interfering with events like government
or religious holidays.

Lex Luther, President of the College
Republicans, emphasized the importance

we have helped people become engaged
in the process and they will continue to
be so after W&L,” said Luther.

When asked about the state of the
election, and the prospects of Governor
Romney against President Obama, Lu-
ther said, “Romney is the clear under-
dog.”

For students interested in watching the

results of Election Night on Tuesday‘

night, stop by the Hillel House from 8
p.m. to 12 a.m., where the College Re-
publicans and College Democrats will
be broadcasting election results live as
well as selling Chick—ﬁl-A.

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
1!‘/AS!-!_l1‘JGTC-1\ Si LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

NOV 0 6 2012

/

  

 

Breaking down heal

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER _

The Congressional Budget Office has
projected $ 1 . 1 7 trillion of spending on the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act between 2012 and 2013, said Profes-
sor Timothy Jost, Washington and Lee
Professor of Law, as part of the PPACA
panel discussion on Monday.

The panel, which consisted of three fac-
ulty members, representatives from Col-
lege Democrats and Republicans, and
a Registered Nurse from the Stonewall
Jackson Hospital, sought to clarify, dis-
cuss, and formally debate the provisions
of the PPACA, also known as Obamacare.

Jost began the discussion by clarify-
ing certain aspects of the Act. He said
that under the PPACA, Medicaid will be
expanded to all Americans under 138%
of the poverty line—~not just widows and
orphans as before—with discretion by the
states. However, he said he thought that
most states would end up adopting the
policy for personal beneﬁt.

And regarding the individual mandate,
Dr. Harlan Beckley, the Director of the
Shepherd Poverty Program at W&L, clari-
ﬁed that although people will not have to
purchase healthcare, they will have to pay
a penalty ifthey do not.

According to Jost, some of the other ex-
penses that will be undertaken under the
PPACA include $11 billion for community
health centers, $250 million for pregnant
and parenting teen programs, $200 million
for school-based health centers, $5 billion
for expanding the National Health Ser-
vices Core, and $1.5 billion in grants for
maternal infant and early childhood home
visiting programs. There will also be ex-
tensive reforms of Indian Health Services.

The audience seemed primarily con-
cerned with this realm of costs. Questions

said that the goal of the PPACA is to make
care more affordable to everyone in the
long-term.

But despite costs, the overall attitudes of
the panel towards the PPACA, were over-
archingly positive.

“I think there are positive mental health
effects,” said Timothy Diette, Professor of
Economics at W&L, citing the Colorado
theater shootings this summer and how a
prime concern for those harmed, strangely
enough, was insurance coverage. Diette
explained that not having to worry about
personal healthcare can help reduce stress
for individuals, and that the PPACA could
facilitate the mitigation of this stress.

The economist even thought that extend-
ing, coverage would positively affect the
economy on the macro scale.

“A lot of people are concerned with ex-
tending coverage solely because it increas-
es productivity, it reduces poverty, in the
long run it reduces welfare rolls, and in-
creases educational outcome,” said Diette.

Professor Beckley also thought the PPA-
CA was an important move and looked
at it from what he described as a “moral”
perspective.

“[Healthcare] is not a commodity,” said
Beckley, saying that healthcare should not
be compared to clothing and other like en-
tities. “Healthcare, like education, is nec-
essary for equal opportunity.”

Todd Smith, President of the College
Democrats, agreed with Beckley.

“I think we have a moral imperative
to address this problem for the working
poor,” said Smith.

However, Lex Luther, President of the
College Republicans, disagreed on the
beneﬁciality ofthe act.

“I am ﬁghting an uphill battle here,” he

 

tre facts

age, and they will be forced into PPACA
exchanges.

Jost responded with a semi-rebuttal, cit-
ing different statistics from the CBO which
in fact projected an increase of 3 million
people who will be able to get health in-
surance coverage from their employers.
He said that employers will have the rea-
son they have now for offering health in-
surance: a more productive workforce and
huge tax beneﬁts. The largest tax subsidy
in our country, he said, is for employee-
related health insurance.

The panel discussion also shed light on a
local perspective on the Act with the voice
of Robert Capiro, an RN of Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. Capiro described the
need for reforms for the local healthcare
system.

Capiro said that there is only one physi-
cian in Rockbridge County that will take
new Medicare patients.

“65-70 percent ofthe people at our facili-

ties at any one time are Medicare patients,” _

he said, explaining that many have chronic
conditions, or are elderly. He described the
complications ofthese people going home
in confusion after treatment, unable to take
care of themselves, and getting sent back
to the hospital.

He praised the PPACA because it in-
cludes provisions to keep people from
needing to come back to the hospital and
also gives money to help create electronic
records.

In addition, Capiro said that federal

Medicare regulations help his hospital by

mandating only 25 patients in at time, with

the average stay lasting less than four days.
As for the future for healthcare quality,

Capiro was positive. '

“As there are more patients who have the

I: ~ — - t

A panel of W&L professors, students, and a registeredinurse from the Stonewall Jackson Hospital debate

Obamacare.

were raised as to where funding would
come from, as well as whether healthcare
could really be more affordable under the
PPACA.

Jost explained that much of the funding
would come from cutting Medicare costs,
but that the federal budget deﬁcit would
still increase by $109 billion.

“We aren’t going to reduce healthcare
costs,” J ost said regarding affordability.
“That’s not a realistic goal.” However, he

saidjokingly following the other panelists.

Luther cited a CBO projection suggest-
ing that employers would drop 11 million
employees from coverage. He then pointed
to studies from McKenzie, Deloit, and the
Heritage foundation that suggested a num-
ber closer to the 20 million mark would be
dropped from employee beneﬁt programs.
Lex said that even those with healthcare
right now might be forced into Obamacare
because their employer will drop cover-

By Douglas McNiel
STAFF WRITER

Professor Nathan.Feldman gave his in-
augural lecture for his Rupert and Lillian
Radford professorship on Thursday. The
lecture was titled “Beauty and Surprise
in Mathematics.”

Professor Feldman began his career at
Washington and Lee University in 1999.
“His research is in functional analysis,
complex analysis and operator theory,”
according to a W&L News update.
“Much of his work has focused on the
chaotic dynamics of linear operators and
matrices.”

Besides teaching a wide variety of
math classes, Feldman also helps stu-
dents with summer research. At the be-
ginning of the lecture, he said that he

Bringig

Radford professorship.

    

Professor Nathan Feldman discusses his Rupert and Lillian

ability to be insured, even ifit is Medicaid,

and with some of the aspects of the Afford-
able Care Act, reimbursement will indeed
be better to the physician,” he said. “One
would hope that more physicians in the
community would rise to the occasion.”

Jost explainedthat while there are pro-
visions in the PPACA to improve quality,
he was unsure about their ability to be ef-
fective. However, he hopes the long-terrn
effect on quality will be beneﬁcial.

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Holy Sepulchre in danger of closing ,

‘ The popular pilgrimage site, Church of the Holy Sepulchre, is in danger of
closing its doors as a result of a dispute with a water company. Many church of-
ﬁcials believe the church is exempt from paying water bills. However, the Israeli
company is now demanding payment. The church’s bank accounts were frozen
two years ago. Mediation attempts are still going on between the two groups.

Greek journalist faces charges for
publishing probable tax evaders

Kostas Vaxevanis, a Greek journalist, faced serious charges for publishing
a list of inﬂuential citizens who are probable tax evaders. He was arrested last
Sunday — an action that suggests press freedom is waning. However, he was
acquitted late Thursday night in front of an exuberant crowd.

Egyptian policemen met with
gunfire

Egyptian policemen in the el-Arish region of the Sinai Peninsula were met
with gunﬁre on Saturday morning. The shooters were most likely Islamic ﬁght-
ers that have been hunted by Egyptian police recently. At least three policemen
were pronounced dead after the shooting along with one wounded. Ofﬁcials in
the country are working to bring peace to the region.

China implements new organ donor
policy

The Chinese govemment is implementing a new system for organ" donation
in the country. The new system will be in place early next year. This allows for
less dependence on organs harvested from executed prisoners. The old system
did not require consent of the executed or of their family. This enraged many
human rights groups who claimed that it was highly unethical.

Syrian rebels attempt “to liberate
Taftanaz airbase” 1

Rebels in Syria mounted a major attack on a large air force base. The group
is calling the attack an attempt “to liberate Taftanaz airbase.” The assault started
the night before an important meeting in Qatar to discuss the nation’s plans for
opposition. The attacks seem to be a response to the military air strikes earlier
last week. The destruction of the air base is evidence of the rebels’ gains in
northern Syria. ,~

Train derailing in Australia leads to
one death and several injuries

A train derailed in Australia on Saturday. The accident happened when the
back trailer of a truck attempting to cross was hit by the train. The driver of the
truck was unharmed, but it took over an hour to free the train driver. He sus-
tained serious injuries. Almost a dozen other train passengers received minor
injuries. One man was pronounced dead on the scene.

Demonstration in Bahrain against
ban on public gatherings

Several demonstrations took place in Bahrain on Friday. People are enraged
by the government ban on public gatherings and thus came together in peaceful
protests. A few hundred people marched across the country. The Bahraini police
ﬁred tear gas into the crowds to stop the protesters. Many arrests followed, in-
cluding that of the head of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights. ’

 

loved the tradition that surrounds W&L,
he mentioned the University Chamber
Singers and graduation as two of his fa-
vorite W&L traditions.

Feldman began his talk by relating
math to the two most inﬂuential men in
the history of the University—George
Washington and Robert E Lee. He point-
ed out that both men loved the study of
mathematics. Lee was even an Assistant
Professor of Mathematics during his ten-
ure at West Point, according to Feldman.

After his brief historical discussion,
Feldman began to show several differ-
ent topics in math that inspire beauty and
surprise. He discussed the golden ratio, a cine.

Feldman also used the Pythagorean

ics. F eldman said that there are over 500
different proofs that prove the validity
of the theorem, including one created by
. former U.S. president James Garﬁeld.
Toward the end of his presentation,
F eldman brought up the extremely rel-
evant topic of math in elections. He said
that a candidate only needs .000006 per-
cent of the popular vote to win an ‘elec-
tion. «
Other topics included in the lecture
were the ‘math involved in skateboarding
and probability and statistics in medi-

number that is seen in many works of art.

theorem in his discussion of mathemat-»

gh-

 

   

  Parents

     
  
 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

GWS

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Parents were at the center of campus
activities this weekend at Washington
and Lee. .

Parents and families of current students
visited campus to sit in on classes, attend
musical concerts and go to the football
game at W&L’s annual Parents Week-
end.

The weekend officially began as par-
ents and relatives joined students in the
classroom on Friday. Parents also had the
opportunity to see students demonstrate
physics phenomena at a Physics Fest in
the Science Center, Robert E. Lee Re-
search Scholars present posters on their
summer research projects in Leybum Li-
brary, and senior English majors discuss
their capstone projects in Payne Hall.‘

Various academic departments invited
students and families to meet with fac-
ulty.

In Stackhouse Theater on Friday, Stu-
dent Affairs staff and sorority and fra-
ternity leaders answered questions about
Greek Life.

Also in Stackhouse Theater, Kate
Chenery Tweedy and Leeanne Meadows
Ladin discussed their new book, “Sec-

retariat’s Meadow: The Land, the Fam-
ily, the Legend,” a pictorial history of
Secretariat, the Triple Crown champion
racehorse.

On Friday night, Cantatrici, the Men’s
Glee Club, and the W&L Chamber Sing-
ers performed in the Parents and Fam-
ily Weekend Choral Concert in Wilson
Hall.

On Saturday, the football team defeat-
ed Hampden-Sydney College, 45-42, at
Wilson Field.

Other attractions included Applied
Music Recitals in the Concert Hall in
Wilson Hall and an A Cappella Concert,
including General Admission, JubiLee,
Southern Comfort, and the Washing-
tones. The University Wind Ensemble
also gave a concert at Wilson Hall.

Some special exhibits took place over
the weekend.

In the Lykes Atrium in Wilson Hall,
recreated photographs’ of Rockbridge
County, taken by students from a 2012
Spring Term class, were displayed
alongside the original photographs taken
by Michael Miley in the 1890s and early
1900s. The exhibit is called “Then &

Parents got a weekend look into the life of a general in Lexington this past wekend.

Now: Photographs after Michael Miley.”

The McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp

4 r r ..

W&L parents and families have the oppornity to try out the University dining facilities durin Parents Weekend.

get a peek at Lex Life

 

It .
:8

PHOTO COURTESY OF WLU.EDU

Hall showed paintings by Ohio Wes-
leyan University professor Frank Hobbs,
who once taught drawing at W&L. The
exhibit, which runs through December,
presents his paintings of the Ohio and
Virginia landscapes and ﬁgure paintings

from his time in Italy.

In the Reeves Center on Friday, ceram-
ics collections from America, Europe

, and Asia were displayed to the general

:U_ public. The collections, most of which

 

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF WLU.EDU

5‘ are Chinese export porcelain, feature
, some ceramics that are more than 4,000
years old.

The Staniar Gallery in Wilson Hall

‘ showcased the work of Brent Green, a,

storyteller, visual artist, and ﬁlmmaker

A known for his “DIY folk-punk” animat-
T ed ﬁlms.

His films have been shown at
the J. Paul Getty Museum ofArt in Los
Angeles and the Museum of Modern Art
in New York.

Leybum Library held its Annual Book
Sale from Friday to Sunday.

Next year, Parents and Family Week-
end will occur about a month earlier,
from Oct. 4 through Oct. 6.

ED 1 ﬂexible in the wake of

By Hamlet Fort
5 TA F F w R IT E R

In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, the
Washington and Lee Admissions Ofﬁce
extended the Early Decision application
deadline, allowing applicants affected by
the storm an extra week or so to submit
their applications. Nov. l marked the
formal deadline for the first round of ED
applications. '

Early Decision is an important and
widely-used method of applying to col-
leges, especially at W&L, where a large
percentage of the school’s applicants
are positive W&L is their number one
choice. From the Class of 2016, 48 per-
cent were admitted through ED - a num-

ber consistent with previous years, ac-
cording to Senior Associate Director of
Admissions Erin Hutchinson.

ED only differs from Regular Decision

 

applications in that the results are bind-
ing. Ifaccepted, the applicant will enroll.
Hutchinson says this is the only major
difference between ED and Regular De-

spatial 

 thefrED?l  e _
      Hurricane Sandy

 

 

cision applicants as well.

“The only way that ED applicants differ
from Regular Decision applicants in any
meaningful way is in their burning desire
to be Generals,” said Hutchinson. “With
regard to their academic credentials and
their extra-curricular accomplishments,
they are virtually indistinguishable from
their Regular Decision peers.”

For the Admissions Ofﬁce, accepting
students from Early Decision is as much
of the part of the process of building a
ﬁrst-year class as Regular Decision.
There is no distinction between the type
of applicants in the two pools, except for

Sandy

the deadline.

“Our goal is always to recruit a well-
rounded class, featuring students who
excel in different academic and extra-
curricular areas and who represent
a broad range of geographic, socio-
economic, religious, and ethnic back-
grounds,” said Hutchinson.

The ED deadline of Nov. l is the ﬁrst
of the Admissions season’s deadlines,
but the Admissions Ofﬁce will continue
to receive applications through the week
following for applicants in regions af-
fected by Hurricane Sandy.

The second deadline is Jan. 1, 2013.

Sunday brunches become weekly event

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF warren

Oct. 21 marked the first of the upper-
classmen Sunday brunches sponsored by
the Executive Committee. From ll a.m.
to l p.m., many upperclassmen students
came together for the inaugural event.

The brunch is a joint project with the
EC, originating with the Student Health
Committee. The Student Health Com-
mittee came up with the brunch as part
of an initiative to bring both male and

female students together across campus
outside of the school setting.

The brunch took place in Evans Dining
Hall, and had a great turnout of students

for its ﬁrst event. It was open to sopho-_

mores, juniors and seniors, and offers
upperclass students a wide range of food
options, for a reasonable price of ﬁve
dollars per person.

The EC has worked very hard to

subsidize

costs in a way to offer a high quality
meal for a very affordable price. Stu-
dents were able to pay with cash, Food
Flex, and General Debit for the ﬁrst
brunch. For future events, students
should also have the option to swipe
their brunch home.

The EC hopes to make the brunch a
more regular event with continued suc-
cess. The idea of the brunch was to offer
students an opportunity to eat together in
a different setting outside of the typical
social scene.

When asked about the brunch, sopho-

more EC representative Daniel
Raubolt explained, “We wanted

to give upperclassmen an-
other place to eat on the
weekend, as it can be dif-
ﬁcult for older students

to ﬁnd easy and afford-

able dining options.”

Raubolt mentioned

that he was impressed

by the turnout, and was

, excited for the upcoming

brunches.

The success of the begin-
ning brunches may start a tradi-
tion to continue on through the rest

of the year. There was no brunch this
past week due to Parents Weekend, but
there are sure to be many more to come.

Eezée 'e at  

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am — 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm 4 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu online

 Twitter @berkysfood

 Find us on Face book

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

opinions

 

 

Robbing Uncle Sam: social insecurity

‘ By Ben Ruffle

GUEST WRITER

 ._,..-___,...,__..__,   ..

K

5
; Pr 
.

I-4:  rt-‘W-/.n-«I In
«Ill-Ill ME

 .-.- ..-. .1-1...:

       
      

 

Ida May Fuller received the ﬁrst
monthly Social Security beneﬁt check
ever written on January 31, 1940. Over
the preceding three years, Mrs. Full-
er paid into the system payroll taxes
amounting to $24.75. After she retired,
the Social Security Administration sent
her a check every month until she died,
at the age of 100, in 1975. By the time
of her death, Mrs. Fuller had collected
$22,888.92 from the federal government,
representing a return rate of 92,480 per-
cent on her investment.

The problems posed by entitlement
spending are not at the forefront of the
average young voter’s mind. Yet en-
titlement spending represents one of the
greatest crises in American politics to-
day. Without reform, young people will
have the opposite experience of Mrs.
Fuller with our entitlement programs:
they will pay large amounts in taxes
throughout their working lives, then
when they retire they will receive little
to nothing in return.

Voters face a clear choice on Novem-
ber 6. They can either accept President
Obama’s status quo, mixed in with the
wrong approach toward reform, or con-
sider Governor Romney’s moderate and
workable plan to solve the entitlement
crisis. There is much disinfonnation out
there—~a key stratagem of the Obama
campaign appears to be asserting that
Romney and his running mate Paul Ryan
would personally escort our nation’s
grandmothers off a precipice—but noth-
ing disinfects like sunshine.

There are three principal entitlement
programs: Social Security, designed to
supply supplementary income for the re-
tired, the disabled, and their dependents;
Medicare, crafted to provide healthcare

support for the elderly; and Medicaid,
a healthcare program that aims to assist
the poor. The worst kept secret in Wash-
ington is that all three are unsustainable.
Without reform, these three programs
will either go bankrupt or continue to
absorb higher and higher proportions of
the federal budget, crowding out spend-
ing on education, infrastructure, defense,
and eventually, the rest of the economy.

If nothing changes, young people,
and even adults in their 30s and 40s, will
have serious reason to question whether
the healthcare and Social Security that
they have been promised will be there
when they need them.

There is bipartisan acknowledgement
that our entitlement programs need ﬁx-
ing. As President Obama himself said in
2008, “What we have done is kick this
can down the road. We’re now at the end
of the road, and we’re not in a position to
kick it any further.”

Obama’s record in ofﬁce, however,
has not lived up to his rhetoric. The
president ignored his own national com-
mission on ﬁscal reform, known as the
Simpson-Bowles Commission after its
bipartisan chairmen, when it offered an
equitable proposal for entitlement re-
form. With Obamacare, the president
expanded the rolls of Medicaid, dump-
ing as many as l8 million people on the
over-extended program by 2016. The
law also took $716 billion away from
payments owed to healthcare provid-
ers of Medicare patients, a cut that will
cause a reduction in the service given
to seniors. Obama has at this point for-
warded no concrete plan to return Med-
icaid or Social Security to solvency.

The only nod toward cost control that
Obama has offered is the Independent
Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), an
entity created by Obamacare. IPAB is
comprised of I5 unelected bureaucrats,
and is tasked with restraining the costs
of Medicare. This board has the power
to cut the amount of money the govem-
ment pays to doctors and hospitals that
care for those on Medicare. Despite the
administration’s denials, this cost cutting

would take the form of fewer services for
the elderly, a backdoor path to rationing.
Democrats want people to trust that po-
litical appointees in Washington are wise
enough to control the healthcare costs of
seniors in a fair way. But there is a better
choice than ceding such responsibility to
an unelected body.

Governor Romney has put forth a
practical plan to save our entitlement
programs. First and foremost, Romney

would repeal Obamacare, restoring the ~

$716 billion to Medicare and eliminat-
ing IPAB. Secondly, for Medicare, Rom-
ney would implement a premium sup-
port system for those who are currently
younger than 55. The premium support
system, which has a long bipartisan
pedigree, would grant future seniors
a choice in their healthcare plan. The
government would give seniors a ﬁxed-
amount beneﬁt to choose an insurance
plan. They would then be able to pick a
less expensive plan, and receive money
back from the government, or go with
a more expensive plan, and pay a little
extra. It is important to stress that all of
these plans would by law be required to

offer coverage at least comparable to

present-day beneﬁts.

For Medicaid, Romney would block I

grant the program, which means that the
federal government would give states
the money that it already spends on
Medicaid. This change would give states
the ﬂexibility and incentive to experi-
ment with the program to make it more
efﬁcient, effective, and sustainable.
Block granting has proven successful in
the past—President Clinton signed off
on welfare reform in 1996 that involved
giving control of the program to the
states—an‘d will help secure healthcare
for the neediest for years to come.
Finally, for Social Security, Rom-

ney proposes to raise the eligibility age I‘

gradually to keep in line with increas-
ing longevity. He would also institute
means-testing for beneﬁts, so that more
afﬂuent seniors, who do not need addi-
tional retirement income, would receive
less. Such reforms are reasonable and

 

fair; they would strengthen Social Se-
curity and would ensure that it remains
strong for generations to come.
Romney’s decision to put forward
speciﬁc plans for entitlement reform is
politically perilous. Both parties have
used “Mediscare” tactics—making vot-
ers fearful of such changes to entitlement
programseto great effect in the past.
But the time for such fear mongering
is long past. Demographics, and arith-

metic, will ensure that these entitlement
programs will soon have to change. The
choice in November is clear: either to
vote Romney, and accept some reforms
to guarantee the survival of these en-
titlements, or side with Obama, and put
your faith in rhetoric and your health in
the hands of unelected bureaucrats. But
whatever your choice, younger voters
should make no mistake: there will be no
lda May F ullers in our generation.

 

President Barack Obama speaks at a campaign event at Mentor High
School, Saturday, Nov. 3, 2012, in Mentor, Ohio, before traveling to Mil-
waukee for another Campaign event. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)

WASHINGTON AND In UNIVERSITY

THE RING-

TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUESTWRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

IULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY'
.IP BEALL

 

Crouching NASA, hidden Dragon

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

,.

CYNTHIA LAM .

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE IAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEY RUSSELL
YATES WILBURN
PROF. HANK DOBIN
BEN RUFFLE
KRISTINA SEON
TODD SMITH-
SCHOENWALDER
DAVID ZEKAN

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMA'S

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.'edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 -9 . Today, the world is a lot smaller than
‘A it wasza hundred years ago. London, once

afar-oﬁ‘ land to native Virginians, isonly
. about nine hours away by plane. A train
 ride from Staunton to New York. is‘ only
‘ half a .day’s journey.;And.-if you’re reading
I this paper over your morning cup of cof-

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

I there’s no traffic on the highway. In fact,
you could probably travel to anywhere
within the Eaith’s atmosphere in twenty
 four hours or less.

And, coming soon, you’ll be able to
travel even further than that. '
Space Exploration Technologies Cor-
' oration (SpaceX) has begun to plan for
the day when human beings could buy
tickets to the moon as easily as they might
buy tickets to France. Founded in 2002 by
Elon Musk, co-founder of Tesla Motors,
SpaceX has worked closely with NASA
for years, anticipating the historical launch
which would project one of their shuttles,
called the Dragon, to the International

 
 

  
 

   
 

__ October 7, 2012, making SpaceX the
 world’s ﬁrst privately-owned company to
‘- send cargo to the I SS.

 

, fee, you could be in Canada for dinner if L‘

Space Station. That launch happened on’

SpaceX. isn’t alone, of. course. Com- .
mercial space travel, being amongst the
most exciting prospects of the day, has ' I
become the goal of many brilliant minds.
Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic is the ’
newest branch of the ‘Virgin Group, con.-
cerned primarily with space tourism. Jeff I‘ ' ,
Bezos, founder of »Amazon.com, is also ~' v

‘under, contract with NASA to ﬁirther the  

 
 

exploration into commercialized space A j ,
travel. Roderick and Randa Milliron co- »  5
founded Trans I Lunar Research in «the , '
hopes of creating a manned space station C
on the moon, and are now in the race to
create a shuttle that could transport people
to the moon. . i

The Dragon capsule isn’t intended to '
shuttle mere cargo to the ISS. Though the
spacecraft was unmanned on its most re I
cent journey, SpaceX fully intends that it ’
one day be used to transport humans. The
ISS, a habitable structure that resides in ._
low Earth orbit, could conceivably be afx
travel destination open to Vacationers in
the near future. Once believed to be only
the product of fantasy ﬁlms and wild imag-
inations, space travel is on the verge of be-
coming the most recent feat of humankind

     
      
  
     
 
  

  
 
  
         
 
     
  

    
  
     
   

   
     
     
 

 

   

  

\

 

 

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

5 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

opinions

My kingdom for a kiss

By Hank Dobm
PROFESSOR or ENGLISH
Over the past two months, I have had

the privilege to be a cast member in the
production of Bye, Bye Birdie, which
played six performances to packed hous-
es last week. The thing I most want to
say is how much I admire and respect the
many student cast members who worked
so hard, and so joyfully, on the musical;
their dedication and their talents were
very much on display in the Johnson
Theater. I also want to thank Jenny Da-
vies for asking me to join the cast and
to compliment the combination of tire-
less work and creative imagination she
brought to the production.

But I also want to share some thoughts
about the play itself because, for all of
its fun and l950’s innocence, Bye, Bye
Birdie is a dated dramatic work, and one
that features umnistakably racist and
sexist characters and attitudes. In fact,
Bye, Bye Birdie is far easier to stomach
as social satire today, with more than
ﬁfty years of distance from its open-
ing night on Broadway. The overt sex-
ism and racism (directed at Latinos) in

the play would have made the original
audiences of this Tony-award winning
musical much more uncomfortable in
1960 because the play lampooned and
ridiculed attitudes that were current, and
largely unquestioned, in the post—war
boom years‘ of the 50’s. The civil rights
and women’s movements were only be-
ginning to challenge the status quo. The
play takes on these serious issues with
a playful but clearly satiric touch—by
making Albert’s mother’s casual slurs
about Latinos and other foreigners dis-
tastefully ignorant and by making the
male authority ﬁgures blustery, silly, and
impotent.

What upends the comfortable and
complacent idyll of l950’s American
domestic existence (complacent precise-
ly because the oppression and repression
that made it possible were unacknowl-
edged) in Bye, Bye Birdie? Simple: the
subversive power of rock-and—roll! This
new music threatened the very social
structure of society: it crossed racial di-
visions at the same time it declared gen-

marriage partner.

-

‘“"’“‘ battles over power or sex.

adult sexuality.

What are the main conﬂicts in Shakespearean Comedy?

 ' Generational conﬂict: typically the father tries to control
»__,_____,his daughter, block her happiness, and prevent her choice of

..  Gender Conﬂict: women and men are almost always at each
' J other, often in skirmishes of wit that mask more serious

 Conﬂict between love and sex: the young people in
w”_,Shakespeare’s comedies must resolve the tension between
idealized romantic love and the enticements (and, dangers) of

erational warfare. Itcreated a powerful
youth culture and unleashed the sexual
energy of the buttoned-up, bobby—socks
generation. The parents in the play la-
ment: “What’s the matter with kids to-
day?” And Elvis (or Conrad Birdie) was
at the epicenter of this quake that rocked
society. The 60’s — with short skirts,
long hair, drugs, and free sex»-were
about to be born.

But why my subtitle above? What
can Shakespeare possibly have to do
with Bye, Bye Birdie? Well, for all the
fun and froth of the musical, the play is
deeply traditional in its main comedic
preoccupations, and—upon analysis-
yields insights that are downright Shake-
spearean.

And how do Shakespeare’s comedies
typically end? With the defeat of the fa-
ther ﬁgure, with the daughter marrying
the man of her own choice (but almost
always one who seems unworthy of
her), with some sort of truce between the
lovers (often after the woman bests the
man but then, problematically, appears
to cede authority back to him), and with
the young couple heading off to the wed-
ding bed as the play ends. But careful!
Sex is all foreplay in the comedies; once
sexual consummation occurs, we enter
the world of Shakespearean tragedy.

This simplistic tour of the genre of
Shakespearean comedy can guide our
analysis of the conﬂicts and resolutions
of Bye, Bye Birdie.

Generational conflict? The two

X. central blocking ﬁgures in the
play are Alber’t’s mother—obsessively
possessive and demanding of Albert’s
love and attention~and Mr. McAfee—
trying to maintain control over his fam-

ily, especially Kim. (Fascinatingly, he
tries to block both rivals for Kim’s affec-
tions; the virtually pre-pubescent ‘Hugo
is as much a threat to his patriarchal do-
minion. as is the hyper-sexualized Con-
rad.) But both blocking characters lose

in the end.
Gender conflict? The play
2 . mocks male authority as both
ridiculous and futile—whether it is Mr.
McAfee’s pitiful attempts to exercise do-
mestic control (“Nero is back in town!”)
or the Mayor’s dismay as Conrad’s phys-
ical presence lets loose an explosion of
female sexual energy and willfulness
that turns his quiet town into utter cha-
os. (The Mayor’s own wife comically
swoons at the least twitch of Birdie’s
hips.) And Albert himself is no match
for Rosie, who is much more clever,
resourceful, and conﬁdent than he will
ever be. Rosie describes him as a “tower
of jello” and wonders in song what she
even sees in him. When Albert tries to
assert his masculine prerogative at the
end of the play in an overtly sexist rant,
the audience just laughs at him, at least
in part because we know he doesn’t even
mean it. We all know who will wear the
pants in the relationship — just like Rosa-
lind, or Viola, or Portia. -
Love vs‘. sex? The lovers in
3. Bye, Bye Birdie—like those
in Shakespeare’s comedies—are trapped
in an idealized notion of romantic love
that is simultaneously drawn to and fear-
ful ofthe power of sexual love. Kim and
Hugo may get “pinned” but they are so
clearly non-sexual that the revelation at
the end of the play that Hugo has pro-
posed to Kim can only appear ridiculous.
Mr. and Mrs. McAfee are the epitome
of the de-sexualized suburban mar-

ried couple. And there is absolutely no
“chemistry” between Albert and Rosie.
He seems virtually neutered; any passion
comes only from the frustrated Rosie-
although when she unwittingly rouses
the Shriners’ dormant libidos, she ﬂees
in alarm.

The sexual energy of the play ema-
nates from Conrad and threatens to
overwhelm any semblance of order or
decorum. Like Elvis, whose hip thrusts
were too offensive to be aired on the Ed
Sullivan Show in 1956, Conrad symbol-
izes freedom, rebelliousness, and fun.
The teenage girls of Sweet Apple lose all
self-control, ﬂirting not just with Conrad
but with danger. The parents panic. The
girls play at grown-up seduction (“Let’s
have an orgyl”). And when Kim and
Conrad are alone, the mood turns vague-
ly menacing. Only by arresting Conrad,
getting him out of town, and ultimately
subjecting him to the regimentation of
the army can the specter of unbridled
sexuality once again be contained by
the societally-approved institutions of
romantic love (marriage for Rose and
Albert or “going steady” for Kim and
Hugo). Interestingly, mama has to go
too; an infantilized and de-sexualized
Albert won’t do Rosie any good either.

And so order and peace are restored
in Sweet Apple. As they are in lllyria,
Arden, Ephesus, and Padua. Okay, Bye,
Bye Birdie is not exactly Twelfth Night.
But any work of art is both a product of
its own time and place as well as an ob-
ject for enjoyment and interpretation in
our own. Bye, Bye Birdie may be dated,
but it came to life — in all of its fun and
all of its possible meanings — on stage at
the Johnson Theater last weekend.

  Is San

By Julianna Satterly

EDITOR IN CHIEF

 

A strange tidbit ﬁnally broke the Lex-
ington bubble this morning. A hurricane,
newly dubbed “Sandy” is slowly mean-
dering its way up from the Caribbean
and heading for the Atlantic seaboard.
Nobody around here seems concerned.
Hurricanes never make it past Florida,
right? I secretly hope it does. I have nev-
er seen the fury of a storm before, and
I want a piece of the action. I want to
cower in the basement with candles and
a good book.

 

Sandy has already killed 21 people in

dy all Washe

the Caribbean, and by this morning has
devoured almost 2000 miles of ocean.
The storm is continuing to stretch like a
spring: reaching from the tip of Florida
all the way up through North Carolina.
There is a strange wind in the air, and
bruised clouds blanket the entire sky.
She is coming.

I went to Wally World today to get
cooking supplies, and there are no bat-
teries. There are no ﬂashlights. There is
no water, or candles, or canned foods.
There are no people to watch. I have
never seen a Wal-Mart that silent. The
employees looked at me questioningly
as I went about my business, shopping
for everyday supplies. It reminds me of
Y2K when there was no rice to be found
for hundreds of miles. Every conversa-
tion leads to what they are now referring
to as the “Frankenstorm.” Sandy com-
bined with an arctic front then added to a
jet stream. Strange things are happening
here.

 

I woke up this morning to a how]-
ing wind. The trees are shuddering,
and the leaves are winding their way to
the ground. As Pooh would have said,
it was quite a blustery day. And yet all
two thousand of us had to trudge our
way through the wind to school. But
the weather man is predicting snow for
tomorrow, and with snow comes power
outages. We can’t possibly have class
with a power outage, right?

It is now only 7 p.m., and the
world is black. The clouds covered the
sunset and moon and stars. All there is
around is wind. As I walk back to my
apartment I am surrounded by groaning
giants; their cracking limbs making a»
dull thud as they hit the sidewalkfl start
to walk a little faster, because I would

11 .

prefer not to be impaled. As I walk in-
side the lights start to flicker. Well,
there goes the power. I think Sandy is

~ ofﬁcially upon us. Every other school

for two hundred miles is closed tomor-
row, and yet we haven’t heard anything.
The TV is blaring that conditions will
only worsen throughout the night. I’ve
called my family in New York and heard
of how Manhattan is in terrible shape.
People are kayaking through the streets
of Long Island. There are SCUBA div-
ers in Times Square station. Fires have
destroyed almost a hundred homes in
Queens. The area’s schools have ofﬁcial-
ly been suspended until further notice.
Any moment now, and Sandy is going to
reach us, almost three hours inland.
Before I go to bed I unplug all
important electronics; 1 don’t want them
to fry during a power surge. I parked my
car on the second ﬂoor of the parking
deck: covered from the elements and too
high for ﬂooding. I put a ﬂashlight by my

head and candles within reach. We have
lots of bottled water stockpiled and extra
batteries, and we all showered today in
case the hot water is suspended. I called‘
my parents and told them not to worry,
and that I love them. We are so ready!
Bring it on, Sandy. T-Minus twelve
hours until apocalypse level.

 

Nothing. I woke up and it was a
beautiful day, with a few wispy clouds in
the sky. No snow. No storm. The school
website tells me that “Washington and '
Lee is operating on a normal schedule.”
Well, crap. I guess I’d better do that
homework I was so sure I wouldn’t have
to turn in today...

By Yates Wilburn
STAF F W RITE R

. t ’

Some interesting remarks were made
recently by Ambassador Shin Bong-kil,
Secretary-General of the Trilateral Co-
operation Secretariat—an organization
dedicated to strengthening economic ties
between China, South Korea, and Japan.
In the remarks, made during a round-
table discussion at the Center for Stra-
tegic and lntemational Studies in early
September, the Ambassador claimed that
the “deepening economic ties and boom-
ing people-to-people exchanges are driv-
ing the three countries towards a greater
integration than ever before.” Speciﬁ-
cally, he pointed to a recent agreement
between the three countries to discuss
the “Trilateral Free Trade Agreement
(FTA)” which he equated to an East

 

Asian version of NAFTA as evidence of
this dynamic. In addition, he cited the
overwhelming amount of aid from China
and South Korea to Japan in the wake of
the devastating earthquake last year as
evidence of deepening ties. However,
these remarks were made well before the
anti-Japanese riots in China and Repub-
lie of China (Taiwan), as well as the in-
crease of Chinese maritime presence in
the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands. While the
Ambassador did mention the dispute be-
tween China and Japan (as they stood at
the time) in the remarks, it was only in a
passing reference and he provided little
to no explanation as to why this seri-
ous disagreement would not impede any
progress on such an economic union.

While the economic ties between Ja-
pan and China in particular have become
a huge source of revenue for both coun-
tries—China is Japan’s biggest trading
partner, Japan is China’s third—that trend
has shown signs of decline recently. Ac-
cording to recently released economic
data (cited in the New York Times),
Japanese trade has decreased by 1.4%
in the past 8 months after an increase of

14.3% last year. According to the NYT ‘

article, Japanese ofﬁcials blamed both
the global economy but also “concems
over political issues.” Ofﬁcials added
that growth of investment from Japan
to China has slowed to 16% growth in
the most recent 8 months, with the same
period last year showing a 50% growth.
This news comes despite Japan’s “near-
total reliance” upon China for rare earth
minerals, as “Japanese companies seek
out countries with even cheaper work
forces and less-touchy diplomatic rela-
tions.”

Despite the incredible volume of
trade and dependence China and Japan
share with one another, it does not ap-
pear to be enough to smooth over these
“concems over political issues,” nor is
it a situation that many Chinese citizens
support, as protests in China have ex-
posed a segment of the population that
does not appreciate the amount of trade
done with Japan.iStill, both countries
seem to need the other for the near fu-
ture, as both economies are very fragile,

still weathering a tenuous global recov-
ery. Hopefully, this will be enough to
keep the region from becoming more

- Trade reorients eastern tension

diplomatically tense as territorial dis-
putes cloud the judgments of the govem-
ments of Japan, China, and South Korea.

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

opinions

 

By David Zekan
G U E ST w R I T E R

Although the October 29th discus-
sion on the Affordable Care Act proved
to be insightful regarding the speciﬁcs of
the act, it was ultimately very one-sided
with only the positive aspects ofthe act
being addressed by the collection ofleft-
leaning professionals. The six-inan pan-
el consisted ofthree professors, an R.N.,
and two student representatives from
their respective political organizations.
The perspective ofa physician was only
mentioned when it came to serving
one’s community. Not once was the
sustainability of medical practices or
physician’s opinions on speciﬁcs of
the act mentioned.

In a Nov. 1 interview with a
practicing physician. who re-
quested to remain anonymous, the
attack on doctors by federal institli-
tions was adamantly aﬁirmed. He
claimed that medical records are
being attacked and it is becoming
such that more importance is placed
on documentation than on care for pa-
tients. The federal govemment has
mandated electronic medical records,
a practice which is “turning MDs into
computer technicians” and dehuman-
izing the bookkeeping that comes with
a medical practice. Although this may
simplify management, it puts patients at
risk and a question ofthe constitutional-
ity ofthis mandate arises.

According to the interviewee, the
goal of the federal government is to force
doctors to work for hospitals instead of
in private practices because the govern-
ment has a substantial amount ofcontrol

  
  
 
  
   

 

  

 

O
. R s t
I 1 m ‘V 11' it.
over these bureaucra- forms could be made _to the Ameri- gig
cies. Government can system, the physician referenced
d€t€FmiI1a- healthcare savings accounts, ‘
’ which he believes should be As this election cycle nears a
expanded. He claimed conclusion, we are reminded of our
that “the expansion of greatest political freedom: the right
tion of a healthcare savings to vote. However, we must also rec-
pl‘-V' aC°0U“‘ W0U1d lead ognize that no such freedom can exist
5'' ‘O ‘he lowermg Of without its necessary protectors.
l“S:j”a“°e. ‘ates Throughout our history, American
in 3" lnciease liberties have been challenged over C
in deductibles. . _
Essentially un_ and over again; each time, honorable
der 3 heaithcare men and women respond by sacrific-
Savings account ing themselves in war to defend the
a pariem puts rights of their tellow citizens. If we
money into the are to truly do justice to their service,
account indepen- then we must exercise the most basic
dent of his or her tenant of our democracy. We must
insurance and uses Voto_
‘his m°“e3’ ‘O Pa-V dc‘ As president of College Demo-
ductlbles if he °‘ She is crats lmake this pledge‘ If on de-
in need of care.” He also . ’ . . ' .y
cide to vote in Lexington this Tuesday,
added that these would not C " D ," _
be mandatory, but a good option 0 ege emoctats WI gladly provide .
for healthy, young individuals who the transportation. Arrangements .
wanted insurance, or under the AC A had can be made through 5m'th5ch°e"'
‘ mg]. to have insurance due to the unconstitu- W3ld9Vt14@m3"-Wl|l-ed|l- Funnel"
ciaii’s practice tional individual mandate. Physicians more, this invitation is open to each
l'eimburse- insurance that are not just looking out for themselves student, regardless of political affili-
ments is common Lin- was approximated to cost and their practices in opposing the ACA, ations_
der Medicaid, and will remain this way $31,000 a year with a $100,000 they are also promoting quality of care Let us honor the Americans who
under the ACA. The interviewed physi- deduciib1o if something does go wrong and the rights of individuals to choose have made the ultimate sacrifice for
cian claimed to be paid $430 to remove during the procedure, The sheer magni- which physician they see and when they our ﬂ,eedoms_ This Tuesday, let us
an appendix from 8 lVlCdlCal‘Cl patient tude of these numbers brings mio ques- SCC him Or‘ her. t
While The h05Pllal lnakes avwcximately tion the sustainability of a private prac- V0 e' .
$5000 for the paticnt’s slay during What tice and the government’s so-called free sincerely’
is normally a two to three day recovery. market values, _ roddsmltbschoenwalder .
However, the physician is required to buy when asked what i-ogpoiigib1e ro- P’9-“dent ofcollege Democrats
0
I
I
O
0 o
G‘
. A cappella has been lirepresented in recent years by the.likes
of angst-ridden:h_igh school 1students and overly.—reminiscent'
/Qfﬁce workers, Howey/ier, on’;,Sa’tur,day night, acappella «donned a
different, kindev"of.lth_e*atri\ iVty;.’lr'our Washington and Lee groups
took the stage in“ ‘l.ee1__~ .l);a’pe,l to perform mash-ups of their
1 favorite songs. The .Vl/aIsh£i__,rfgT,ones~(center)‘started the show 9
with an arrangement_c_onfi.bining Ben E. l<_ing’s “Standby Me”9
and The Police's *‘Eve‘ry Breath You Take.” General Admission
(top),took the stageivneitgttaclkliing Michael Bubl_e1‘s“Just Haven’t,
Met .You Yet” and;J‘aso‘r1_Mraz:’;s,"fl.Tm.:Yours.” JubiLee (bottom)~
took on Michael 'Bub!:e’s“:Heartache Tonight" and" Diana Ross’-s
“Ain't No Mountaiyn‘Hig;"*En9ug,h,,”’A Southern Comfort (not
1 pictured), aftera brief ,pij  ’_ otijyingito convinocelthe audience
that this would be .tl1eir.;‘last:»show..Outside of the wedding
circuit, performed ’N‘ellly’fjs,“f-‘Ride Wit Me,” The Clovers’s “One 0'
Mint Julep,” and !‘fSou1‘v-to’.-$lo;u_,l;.” -- 1. 1‘ O

 

 

 
  

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5,‘ 2012

7 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&|ife

Betweena rock and a hard place

By Caroline Hamp
STA F F w R I T E R

Instead of getting caught up on how
your life looks on paper, focus on the
things that really matter, like your family
and friends. That was the advice skilled
outdoorsman and adventurer Mr. Aron
Ralston offered to a packed audience
during his speech in Keller Theater last
Thursday night.

Invited by the CONTACT Committee
and Outing Club to share his story, Aron
Ralston is the hero behind “127 Hours,”
the movie which documented his hor-
riﬁc, yet life-changing experience in late
April and early May of 2003. While
hiking through the majestic canyons of
Utah, a boulder, suddenly unsecure, fell
on Ralston and pinned his hand against
the canyon wall. He stayed there for 5
days until he ran out of water, and was
left dehydrated and mentally exhausted.
Within an hour of that boulder falling,
Ralston knew that he would not be able
to survive; he had not told anyone where

he was going and didn’t expect anyone _

to be searching for him.

On the ﬁfth day, Ralston accepted his
death. He wrote his name, birth date,
and assumed death date on the canyon

 

 

wall; in other words, he was standing
in his grave with an epitaph already
engraved above his head. Ralston then
proceeded to make a video of his last
will and testament. ‘

‘,‘As I’m sitting under that tape,‘ I’m
learning a lot,” said Ralston, recalling
that critical moment. ‘‘It was a great
reminder to know what is important...
I was standing in my grave, yet I was
smiling.” I

In his tape, Ralston didn’t'mention
school, work, or money. He didn’t dwell
on those silly little accomplishments
that, at the time of their achievement,
had seemed so huge. His normally type-
A, overly ambitious attitude faded away.
Instead, he spoke to the people in his life.
He professed his love to his family and
friends. '

And then, in the midst of these ﬁnal
words, he experienced the strangest,
most realistic vision of all — a vision
of-his future life. The vision included
a beautiful baby boy, laughing and
playing and calling him ‘daddy.’ Sud-
denly, death was no longer in the cards.
Ralston had a future, and he was going to

I

Ralston, pictured with his hunting gear and equipment, at the scene of the boulder. He was

  
 

see it through.

With that in mind, Ralston broke his
radius and his ulna, and then cut through
his ﬂesh and bone with a multipurpose
knife that he had gotten for free with a
Wal-Mart ﬂashlight. It was the most
pain he had‘ ever experienced when that
knife tore through the nerve.

Despite the pain and suffering the boul-
der had given him, Ralston did one last
thing before he escaped his grave — he
thanked the boulder. He didn’t lose any-
thing (except a dismembered hand), but
he had gained the insight to a better life.
He had learned the strength of the power
of love.

“Our will to love — our strength and
courage comes from that,” Ralston said.
“It saved me.” '

So when you have to deal with that
l5—page midterm paper, a stressful
chemistry test, or a nerve-racking in-
ternship interview, remember that those
aren’t the only things in life. Tum those
anxiety-ﬁlled obstacles into blessings:
talk to your professor about the paper,
study with a friend for the test, and get
a few pointers from your parent for the

trapped here for five days before deciding to make his harrowing escape.

&L Outng cm,

3*?‘

«:;<i the Film 12? 

The CONTACT committee and Outing Club promoted posters
around campus to spread the word about speaker Aron Ralston.

interview. Or better yet, just put your
life into perspective. That’s the point
of Ralston’s message. Relationships are
more important than what you can see
on paper. Relationships trump the paper,
the test, and the interview - every time.
Ralston’s speech fell on perfect ears.
Families, visiting campus for Parents
Weekend, shared laughter, gasps, and
tears together as Ralston shared his story,
which generated plenty of ‘I love you”s

afterwards.

“I’d even cut off my other hand for
this little guy,” said Ralston, referring to
his son at the end of his talk. “And I bet
there is someone that you would do the
same for.” '

Behind the scenes of Traveller

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

It’s Saturday night and there’s a band ington and Lee, the answer is obvious: to get around safely, but the buses would
party at County Seat. How are you get- Traveller, of course. W&L’s safe ride have stopped running a long time ago if
ting there? For most students at Wash- system makes it easy for all the students it was not for the Traveller drivers.

And let’s be honest: those drivers put
up with a lot. The buses can be a crazy
place. Just getting on is one of the most
difficult tasks. When the Windfall Hal-
loween party was shut down by the po-
lice on Wednesday, masses of students
rushed the doors of the bus in an effort
to make it home.

Earlier that night, another push for
seats caused the windows on the door
of one of the buses to shatter. Last year
a student ran down the aisle of a bus
and busted straight through the back
window. And it’s
not just shattered
glass that Travel-
ler drivers

     
   

have
to attend to.

Driver John Smith, who has driven
the buses for seven years, said: “Usu-
ally the biggest problem we have is that
people have trouble controlling their
bodily functions. I don’t think people
realize that [the drivers] have to clean
everything up.”

Uncontrollable bladders,
chain-reaction vomiting — the Traveller
drivers have seen it all. Smith contin-
ued, “You never know what you’re go-
ing to get covered with.”

Buses that get damaged or
messy have to be serviced, and thus
can no longer be used for the rest of
the night. This setback really puts the
drivers behind. Between taking the bus
back and using fewer buses for rounds,
they end up losing a huge length of
time.

A Students line up outside the bus to board Traveller on a busy party
night. Traveller serves nearly 2000 students every week, working

to make sure that everyone gets home safely. per the most part, however,

 

Traveller isn’t too bad. These problems,
while troubling, certainly aren’t constant
occurrences. Students pile on, maybe get
a little rambunctious, but generally have
a good time together. Driver Dennis
Patterson, who is in his second year of
working for Traveller, said that he plays
music to keep the students happy and
contained.
During a typical party night,
the buses are ﬁlled with shouts, laugh-
ter, and the occasional student trying to
swing from the overhead rack. Picture
taking is, of course, a must. It is not un-‘
common to have a series of Traveller
“selﬁes” after a night out. Singing and
dancing ~ if it can even be called that —
are always present.
The
cite-

   

CX-

   

drivers take care of the entire W&L com-
munity. On Friday night, a student was
overheard saying to Smith, ‘‘I’m going to
introduce you to my mom and tell her all
about how much you’ve saved me this
year.”

Any student can attest to the fact that
the drivers aren’t just protectors; they
are a vital source of information. It is no
secret that Traveller drivers know every-
thing: where the best parties are, which
parties are dead and which are still go-
ing, whether or not cops have shown up
— whatever it is, they have the
facts.

Said Smith: I T
dents 

 
       
 
    
   
 
 
    

,_ » ways
 ask us
' what’s

going
ment on or
was al- where

most tangible when “Wagon Wheel,”
“Jesse’s Girl,” and “Sweet H:.me Ala-
bama” began playing on a bus last Sat-
urday. Said Smith: “The students are a
great source of entertainment. It’s ﬁm to
see them having a good time.”

The Traveller drivers enjoy having the
students just as much as the students ap-
preciate having them. They are an inte-
gral part of the W&L community and
a staple in its nightlife. In fact, a large
portion of the student body befriends the
drivers.

“I’ve made a lot of friends over the
years,” said Smith. “Some call just to
check on me. A few threw me a birthday
party last year, and probably more than
300 students showed up.  lot of the stu-
dents really care.”

Befriending the drivers can be incred-
ibly beneﬁcial for students. After all, the

the place to be is. After a while, you learn
everything about the houses because al-
most every party is a yearly tradition.”

Regardless of all that can happen on-
board Traveller, drivers ﬁnd it to be
highly rewarding. It is primarily a posi-
tive experience. Said Patterson: “I like
driving for Travellerjust ﬁne. I wouldn’t
do it ifl didn’t.”

Smith continued: “I enjoy it. The peo-
ple are really great. Plus, you save a lot
of people. To get someone home safe
and keep them either out of the hospital
or out of jail is really rewarding. You feel
like you’ve done a good thing.”

  

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

arts&life

 

P.E. classes cure winter blues

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

x

 

A Thought you kne

12- 

w all about PE? Think again. At W&L, physical education is much more than your average high school gym class. For-

  

get about dodgebali; here, students can choose anything from Self-Defense to Boot Camp to Yoga to fulfill their FDRs this winter.

Some Washington and Lee students
are ﬁnding their physical education
classes to be life saving.

Among these students is sopho-
more Self-Defense student Caroline
Crichlow-Ball. “Before taking [Self-
Defense class], I would have had no idea
how to respond if I were attacked,” said
Crichlow-Ball. “Now, self- defense tech-
niques have become instinctual.”

"'Self—Defense, taught by the Uni-
versity’s own public safety officers, is
just one of the many P.E. classes on the
course-offerings list for upcoming win-
ter registration.

W&L gives students a taste of its
liberal arts “status” by requiring all un-
dergrads to take four terms of physical
education. The school’s goal for these
classes is to “encourage social efficien-
cy” through physical activity. According
to Director of Physical Education Mr.
Neil Cunningham, P.E. classes “only
enhance the true W&L experience” and
provide “an excellent release for our stu-
dents.”

if a good workout takes precedence
over the cold weather this winter, then
there’s the option of taking 8 a.m. Boot

Camp or 10 a.m. Aerobic Running. For
those lessenthused about running, Pro-
fessor Wendy Orrison will be offering a
therapeutic Yoga class.

College sports aren’t for everyone.
However, if you’re missing your high
school sport this winter, soccer, vol-
leyball and basketball are open for sign
up. Others may decide to “branch” out
with Professor James Dick’s Wilderness
Leadership class. g

“in the winter semester the classes
that are indoors are most popular due to
the weather," said Cunningham. “in ad-
dition, Boot Camp and Weight Training
are extremely popular ‘after the break as
everyone starts that ‘new’ ﬁtness cam-
paign."

First-year lacrosse player Caroline
Hutchinson, like many other ﬁrst-years,
is looking forward to trying a different
form of exercise. “i want to take Dance
Conditioning so 1 can improve my danc-
ing skills while at the same time enjoy-
ing a sport different from lacrosse,” said
Hutchinson. . ‘

Another option is to knock out two
credits with Cunningham’s own Phi-
losophy and Techniques of Coaching, or

 

Williamson is offering a Therapeutic Ex-

another class for preventing and caring already injured, this term trainer Joshua
for athletic injuries. For those who are

‘»‘:§‘~ N’

ercise course, or physical rehab.
Cunningham finds that indoor
sports like badminton, racquetball, in-
door soccer, basketball, volleyball and
yoga, are most popular among students
for winter classes. Part of the appeal
comes from the fact that professors do
not expect their students to be previ-

, ously skilled in any ofthe physical ac-

tivities that a class may entail.

Senior Sallie Griffin has ﬁrst-hand
experience with the variety in P.E. of-
lerings after taking badminton. “i like
that you don’t need any prior experi-
ence and you can still be competitive
and have a great time," said Griffin. “I
would suggest it to anyone who wants
to broaden his or her sports horizon."

According to Crichlow-Ball, her
favorite part about Self -Defense is her
professors’ dedication. “You can tell
they teach this class because they re-
ally care about W&L women's safety,”
she said. '

The Physical Education Department offers numerous different courses to satisfy the wide range of
student interests. Pictured above are students carrying tanks and training underwater for scuba
diving, a class taught during Spring Term.

Studen

Coming from Costa Rica to Mon-
golia,’parents ﬂew in from all around
the world to attend the annual Par-
ents and Family Weekend Multicul-
tural Students’ Dinner, hosted by the
Office of Diversity and inclusion in
the Evans Dining Hall last Saturday.
One of the highlights of the evening
was the global fashion show, orga-
nized by sophomore Cathy Wang,
who aimed to showcase the student
body’s diversity through traditional
costumes. The event was highly

successful, with 24 participants rep_—
resenting 12 different countries in
colorful attire. ‘What a night to re-
member!

 

  

 .
Maria H

\
1

 

The international fashion show featur
12 different countries in colorful costumes and outﬁts.‘

-.{.&£..i..[I LI

errera '16, Sofia Sequeira ’15, Alejandro Paniagua ’16'(all
Costa Rica), and,Myrna Barrera '15 (Mexico) smile for the camera.

\

  
 

IauntcuItu'<~>

ed 24 participants, representing

    

Alejandro Paniagua '16
(Costa Rica) takes a bow.

 

  

 

L.

Alna Hamrick 6 (Korea)
shows off a traditional bow.

 

 

  
 

  

Stephanie Do"15 (Vietnam), Soﬁa Sequeira '15 (Costa Rica),
Waringa, Kamau '15 (Ethiopia), Daphine Mugayo '15 (Uganda),
and Susan Dittma

shion

 

Fred Gisa '16 (Rwanda)
showcased a family chief
cane andanimai skins.

  

'5

 

n (Kenya) proudly ﬂaunt their costumes.

v'_

. 

‘A-

 

’15(china), Maria Herrera

Multiple countries were represented by

 

Sofia Sequeira ’15 (Costa iiica), Cathy 

 

O p '16 (Costa, Rica), Stephanie Do '15 (Vietnam), Oyumaa
Daichinkhuu '16 (Mongolia), and Ahn ‘la '16 (Vietnam). V  g

 

   

1

 

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5,2012

9 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

..sports

Kyle Jaeger

 

 

In perhaps the most shocking trade of the offsea-
son, the Oklahoma City Thunder decided to break
up their powerful young core by shipping James
Harden to the Houston Rockets. This trade was
perplexing to many who asked, why break up a big
three of James Harden, Kevin Durant, and Russell
Westbrook who led the Thunder to the Finals just
one year prior? Others understood the trade but
felt that the Thunder should have waited until the
end of the season to trade Harden, especially when
there was no threat of losing him for another six
months. I believe that the Thunder made a great
trade, and their timing was right.

The Thunder could not afford to keep Serge
Ibaka, Durant, Westbrook and Harden due to the
luxury tax. In signing lbaka to a new contract, the
Thunder essentially chose him over Harden. They
valued Ibaka’s presence and the pieces they could
get in return for Harden over maintaining their big
three. They asked Harden to take less money, and
he refused. Harden is not to blame for wanting what
he felt he deserved. The Thunder showed poise in
a difﬁcult situation. They showed they could make
hard choices to better their team, which is promis-
ing for the organization.

The Thunder made this move before the season
started for two reasons. First and foremost, they
got more value in this trade than they could have
next year, when there would be more pressure to
sign or trade Harden. The Thunder got Kevin Mar-
tin, a comparable offensive threat, Jeremy Lamb,
a promising prospect, and two ﬁrst round picks.
These picks are especially valuable, because one
of them is indirectly from the Toronto Raptors.
The Raptors project to be a lottery team, so in this
draft, the Thunder will most likely have a lottery
pick. It is rare for a deep playoff team to acquire

such high lev-
el picks. Sec-
ondly, if the
Thunder had let
the contract nego-
tiations drag on,

  

Hailey Hartley

The Rock-
ets believe
that they have
found a player that
they can build a

it could’ve turned
ugly. The Thunder
have a very speciﬁc
strategy, and they
made their position
clear by trading

The Oklahoma City Thunder traded James Harden to
Ithe Houston Rockets for Kevin Marlin, Jeremy Lamb,
and twaﬁrst-round draft picks.
Hailey and Kyle tip off about whether or not it was
. good trade.

championship team
around in James
Harden. A young,
skilled guard, he
still has so much
room for improve-

Harden when he
refused to accept
less money for the good of the team: lfthey hadn’t
traded Harden, the situation could’ve turned dra-
matic and distracting for the Thunder, in a similar
way to the Orlando Magic last year.

The Thunder are looking beyond the immediate
impact of this trade and towards the future. The
transformation of the Lakers this offseason has
made the Thunder’s current path to the Finals more
difﬁcult. In making this trade, the Thunder may
sacriﬁce some ability to contend in the present, but
in the future they will emerge stronger. The Lakers
team can only last so long, and stockpiling draft
picks and young players for Harden will help the
Thunder contend when the Lakers team grows old.

Overall the Thunder again demonstrated their
savvy management skills. They were unafraid to
make an unpopular and risky move to better their
team. The Thunder make moves that time and
time again serve as the blue print for the rest of
the small market NBA teams. Surely, we will all
look back in ﬁve years and marvel at the foresight
of the Thunder.

ment. So why did
A the Thunder seem to
give a player with so much potential away?

The Thunder have a superstar in
Kevin Durant. Russell Westbrook, Serge Iba-
ka, Kendrick Perkins, and Thabo Sefolosha
round out ,a solid starting five. The team will
be a dominant force in the Western Confer-
ence for years to come. Despite the strong
roster, the team chose to trade away James
Harden rather than give him the deal he de-
served.

Harden averaged over 30 minutes off of
the bench last year with an average of four
rebounds and almost 17 points. His efforts
earned him the Sixth Man Award for the sea-
son. Harden played like a starter, and giv-
en time, could be one of the most dominant
players in the NBA. He was the Thunder’s
first round pick in the 2009 draft, and is only
23-years-old. The guy seriously had nowhere
to go but up.

The Thunder were not willing to give
Harden the deal he felt he deserved. And they
will suffer because of it. Sure they will still

be a playoff caliber team, they’re talented
there is no doubt about it. But, Harden only
improved the Thunder and he may have been
the key to more playoff runs. Harden wanted
a big deal that he knew he was unlikely to
get, and was given a choice. Accept the deal
shorter, lower salary deal being offered, or
book plane tickets to Houston. The Thun-
der’s loss is ten times the Rockets gain, and
they took the opportunity to basically steal
what they believe is an all-star level player
for many years to come.

The Thunder are losing what potentially
could have been a major player for the Thun-
der for years to come. He was an offensive
threat, and still with plenty of years to so-
lidify himself as a consistent and all-star
NBA starter. And yes, hindsight is 20/20, but
we can already see just a week into the NBA
season that Harden has MVP potential. He’s
playing at a high lev- el that is proving he
is worthy of the contract he de-
manded from the , Thunder. Only
time will tell, ; but the Thun-
der are looking " to be on the
losing side of the deal.

  
  
  
  

 

. Soccer falls

' to VA Wes

By Hendley Badcock

1 ou ned 110
about IM sports  

       

By Hailey Hartley
STA F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team’s hunt for the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship ended when they suffered a
loss in penalty kicks to Virginia Wes-
leyan on Thursday.

. Virginia Wesleyan was the ﬁrst on
the board just over six minutes into
, the ﬁrst half. Sophomore Isaac Ar-
rington found the net to give Virginia
Wesleyan an early lead.

Senior Dave Phillips responded in
the second halfoff of a cross coming
in from fellow senior Basti Richter.
Neither team was able to ﬁnd the
goal during the rest of regular play,

 

or the two sessions of overtime play.
Generals’ goalkeeper, sophomore
Albert Civitarese, had three saves
during the 110 minutes of total play
before the game went to a shootout.

Virginia Wesleyan goalie Jake
Burtch was forced to make just two
saves in the same time period.

Although the game ofﬁcially end-
ed in a tie the shootout determined
who would move on in the ODAC
tournament. The Generals were un-
able to top the Marlins in the penalty
kicks, losing 3-1.

With the loss the Generals’ season
ends. They had a record of 1 1-4-3.

STA F F w R I T E R
“Get out and just play,” Ray Ellington.
Assistant Director of Campus Recreation,
encourages Washington and Lee students,
faculty and staff. The flexibility and ac-
cessibility of intramurals allow even the
busiest student to take part in some light-
hearted competition. W&L offers a wide
variety of sports-—- including soccer, ten-
nis, dodgeball, and volleyball. The flag
football season is currently underway,
with the championships expected to take
place before Thanksgiving break. Hand-
ball, the newest intramural on campus,
will begin this Monday.
Throughout the year, Campus
Recreation also offers special events such
as the Big Pink Volleyball toumament for

breast cancer awareness held in October.
In the spirit of the Presidential election,
the Red, White and Blue Fun Run will
take place on Nov. 6. Finally, a softball
tournament will occur in late April.

Campus Rec welcomes anyone to cre-
ate a team and register. Greek Houses
comprise a large number of the intramu-
ral groups. Ellington points out that “the
fantastic job the Resident Advisers have
done helping to promote intramurals,”
has increased the number of Residence
Hall teams this year. Furthermore, he said
that an Intemational House Team, a Hil-
lel Team, a Faculty/Staff Team and a Law
School team participate in most sports as
well.

Registration for intramurals is simple.
Each league and tournament has a differ-
ent deadline, posted on a variety of media,
including Campus Notices, posters, and
the Campus Rec website. Forms, avail-
able on the website, must be turned in
along with a registration fee to the Intra-
mural Ofﬁce, 416 Warner Center. Look
out for the next registration deadline;
Campus Rec will accept forms for volley-
ball Jan. 7 through Jan. 10.

For those interested in assuming a
paid intramural position, “there are also
opportunities to join the Intramural Staff
as a game official, supervisor and score/
clock keeper,” Ellington advises. Please
contact Ellington at sellington@wlu.edu.

. ODAC spells consistency

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

Seven out of nine. 78 percent. No
matter which way you cut it, this value
signiﬁes the consistency of .Washing-
ton and Lee’s women’s cross country
throughout the last nine seasons. The
team has captured nine Old Dominion

Athletic Conference titles, while Coach
Kris Hoey has received ODAC Coach of
the Year as many times. But while the
success itself throughout the years re-
mains consistent, the year—to—year make-
up of each team is unique.

‘.‘As you win more and more
championships, they all mean something
different. lt’s really all about the ladies
on the team right now, and each one has
been different,” explains Hoey.

And this year’s ODAC champion-

ship stood head and shoulders above the
rest: for the ﬁrst time since she began
coaching at W&L, Hoey’s team scored
a miniscule 29 total points, placing ﬁve
runners in the top nine. A victory of this
fashion places the team in a good posi-
tion as the team prepares for the NCAA
South/Southeast Regional Champion-
ship meet this Saturday. The changes
in roster and different ways of win-
ning, however, seem to have been the
only variables in W&L’s women’s cross
country throughout the years. From the
approach to coaching, to the team’s
preparation for competing, consistency
has been the source for success.

“We try to instill similar values: hard
work and dedication. It’s something
we try to maintain throughout different
years. Success comes from drive and
determination from current athletes, but
the approach never changes,” said Hoey
who, along with Assistant Coach Kristin
Cupido, is always tough on her runners.
Just as the team values remain constant
from year to year, so does the team’s
mindset from race to race:

“A lot of people think we have to do
things differently [for the NCAA South/
Southeast Regional Championship], but
one of the goals from the beginning was
to contend for the title of every meet,”
said Hoey. “We’ve been running in a
manner to win the title in every meet,
large and small.” The team has won four
of the ﬁve meets that it has participated

for W&L XC, Kris Hoey

in this season.

It is the work outside of the meets
that have been instrumental in setting
the stage for the team’s success. Lexing-

ton’s hilly terrain is ideal for cross coun- ,

try training, and Coach Hoey has taken
advantage of this during her time coach-
ing in the Rockbridge area. For example,
when the team goes to compete at Har-
risonburg, a course Hoey describes as
“hilly and challenging,” her team is con-
ﬁdently prepared going in. They have
trained in a comparably tiring environ-
ment. Thus, the team faces no challenge
that it is reluctant to face head-on.

The ODAC championship that the
W&L women’s cross-country team has
recently won signiﬁes the habitual suc-
cess of the team under Coach Hoey’s
reign. Still, Hoey is ﬁrst to admit that
she sets thebar high for her athletes. If
she hadn’t, the team would not have won
the conference championship seven out
of nine years. This is just the ﬁrst step
of the women’s cross country cham-
pionship season, one that Coach Hoey
hopes will end with a national title.
If and when the team competes there,
don’t expect a change in approach. The
women’s cross-country team competes
next Saturday, November 10 in Atlanta
for the NCAA South/Southeast Regional
Championship.

 

   

10 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers
¢433

The total number of yards that Andrew Luck
threw for the Indianapolis Colts on Sunday on the
way to defeating the Miami Dolphins 23-30. This is
the most ever by a rookie. He surpassed Ryan Tan-

nehill’s record of 431 set earlier this season.

1!l

The age of Guan Tianglang, a Chinese golfer. He became
the youngest person ever invited to the Masters after win-

ning the Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship.

45].

The total number of rushing yards that Washington and Lee
had in Saturday’s game versus Hampden-Sydney. W&L de-

feated Hampden-Sydney 45-42 after four overtimes.

:13

The total number of years since the New York Knicks
opened their season 2-0. So far this season they have de-
feated the reigning NBA champions, the Miami Heat, 104-

84. On Sunday they defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 100-84.

soapbox

“Its like when you find out that Santa Claus
isn ’t real.”

- Spencer Conway, one of over 600 runners
that went to unofﬂclally run the New York
City marathon after It was cancelled due to
the devastation of Hurricane Sandy. Many
of these runners ran with supplies to give
to people that they ran Into along the route.
from ESPN.oom

“It's particularly hard for me, because
I'm not the most patient individual in the
world.”

—LosAngslesLakerKobeBryant.1heLakershavaopened
theseasono-3.theflrsttlmedolngthatsInoe1978.0vor
thethreegames Bryanthasaveraged30.7 polrrlspergame,
fromE.SPN.oom

ondeck

Generals Voted eighth
1n pre-season poll

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER _ ~

In Forest, Va., the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference released its 2012-13 men’s bas-
ketball preseason coaches’ poll last Thursday,

putting Washington and Lee eighth out of 12  i A - '

schools. Virginia Wesleyan, defending league
champion, took the top spot with 11 out of 12 -

ﬁrst-place votes.
The Generals will hit the court this season

with 11 returning players, including all ﬁve ..

starters from the 2011-12 team that went 13-
14 overall and 5-9 in the ODAC. Senior for-

ward .l.D. Ey returns as the Generals’ leading

scorer and leading rebounder. Last season, Ey
earned Second Team All-ODAC honors. In
addition, W&L returns with sophomore guard
Javon McDonald and junior forward Larry
Whitaker. Ey, McDonald, and Whitaker had
the three highest points per game average last
season.

W&L will scrimmage against Southern
Virginia University on Wednesday at 7:30

p.m. in the Warner Center before their regular “‘ -

season begins on Nov. 16.

Generals take bac:

ODAC

By Kristina Seon
s TA F F w R IT E R

After four overtime periods, Washington
and Lee came out on top over Hampden-Syd-
ney 45-42 to take the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference title.

451 of their total 489 yards was gained on
the ground.

Senior running back Luke Heinsohn
rushed the ball for three yards and scored the
ﬁrst points for the Generals with 2:35 left in
the second quarter. The Generals headed into
the locker room at halftime losing 17-6.

The Generals took advantage of the ﬁrst
drive ofthe second halfto score a touchdown.
Heinsohn carried the ball for 35 yards to score
his third touchdown ofthe game with 2:35 left
in the quarter.

With 0:39 left in the fourth quarter,
Heinsohn again rushed the ball into the end-
zone to tie up the game at 27 points.

After a scoreless ﬁrst overtime period,
senior running back Brett Murray scored a

CTOWI1

touchdown in each of the second and third
overtime periods. Heinsohn kicked a ﬁeld goal
in the fourth overtime period and the Generals
defense was able to stop Hampden-Sydney.
“lt was the most unbelievable game l’ve

ried the ball 30 times for 170 yards, breaking
his career high single game record. He also
passed for 36 yards on two completed passes.

The Generals’ defense was led by seniors
safety Jake Pelton and linebacker Doug Fra-

“It was the most unbelievable game I’ve ever been a part of ”

said sophomore running backAus‘tz'n Eisenhofer. “T0 ﬁght back

ﬁrom 1 7 down and to win in four overtimes‘ showed a lot of heart

and ﬁght that personiﬁes this team. ”

ever been a part of,“ said sophomore running
back Austin Eiscnhofer. “T0 ﬁght back from
17 down and to win in four overtimes showed
a lot of heart and ﬁght that personiﬁes this
team.”

Senior quarterback Nick Lombardo car-

ser, andjunior cornerback Mitchell Thompson
with ten, eight, and seven tackles, respectively.
The Generals will host the Hornets of
Shenandoah University on Saturday at 1:00
p.m. for the last game of the regular season.

Volleyball sets  
themselves into N CAAS

By Shelby Flores
STAF F W RITE R

The Washington & Lee volleyball team
will return to the NCAA Tournament for the
ﬁrst time since 2010.

The Generals came back from a ﬁrst game
loss to defeat Lynchburg 3-1 in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Championship
match Saturday afternoon. The win gave
W&L an automatic berth into the NCAA Tour-
nament.

F ourth-seeded Lynchburg upset ﬁrst-seed-
ed Randolph-Macon in a semiﬁnal match ear-
lier Saturday morning to earn its spot in the
ODAC Championship.

Head Coach Bryan Snyder said he expect-
ed that Randolph-Macon would win because
it had the home-court advantage but he was
not surprised when Lynchburg pulled off the
upset. Snyder said the team did not change its
mindset in the championship game because
they simply focus on the team across the net.

First-year outside hitter Anna Lausberg and

ﬁrst-year right side hitter Maddie Kosar had
career numbers in the Championship match.
Lausberg led the team with 21 kills and Kosar
added 14. Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles had
19 kills and led the team with 17 digs.

Lausberg, Kosar, and Boles represented
W&L on the ODAC Tournament All-Tourna-
ment Team. The W&L players were chosen
for the all-tournament team based on each
player’s individual performances in the tour-
nament against Roanoke, Bridgewater, and
Lynchburg.

Snyder said that the team’s overall prepa-
ration will remain the same no matter what
opponent they face in the tournament and
that they will attempt to keep to their normal
weekly schedule. The team will also continue
to strive for a national championship, a goal
the team set at the beginning ofthe season.

The Generals will not ﬁnd out who or
where they play until the NCAA selection

 

show on Monday. Nov. 5 at 11 am. NCAA
Regionals are from Nov. 9 to Nov. 1 l.

  
  

 

  

1

Courtesy of W&L Sports Info;

   

 

Men’s Basketball

Tuesday Wednesday

vs Southern Va. 7:30 '

Thursday

 
 

Saturday

Women's Swimming

at Sweet Briar 7 pm

 

W o m e n ’ s X C NCAA Regionals
M e n ’ s X C NCAA Regionals
W 1' 6 5 T l l n g at Wash. and Jeff. Invite
F 0 0t b a ll vs Shenandoah 1 pm

