 

 

 

A SPORTS / page 7

Walalcwfmn. I

On assignment, Josh White spentthe

night channeling Thoreau. ,‘

A&L/ page

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY - A ~ ~  

  THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 28,2013

BY TH

E STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXVll,NUMBER13

W&L experiences ﬂu outbreak

By Andrea Owen
STAFF warren

W&L has met the criteria for a “ﬂu out-
break” this month, said Dr. Jane Horton.

According to Horton, Director of Stu-
dent Health and Counseling Services, I5
to 17 percent, or 160, ofthis months 932
Student Health Center visits had been for
inﬂuenza-like illness as of Friday. This
percentage is about double what the
community has seen. .

Horton said that the 100 doses of ﬂu

vaccine the SHC had at the beginning of
the term were gone within the ﬁrst week,
much quicker than usual at this time of
year

“I think there was much more interest
at the beginning of winter term because
of what was happening nationally,” said
Horton.

Horton said that CVS and the Rock-

 

A’:

bridge Area Health Center still sell ﬂu

 

shots, although it does take 2 weeks for
the vaccination to build up immunity.

“We encouraged [getting ﬂu vaccines]
in the fall so people would have time to
build up immunity,” said Horton.

However, the SHC does its best to help
those with the ﬂu and protect those who
are well.

Horton said that the SHC uses Tamiﬂu,
an antiviral medication, for those who
already have ﬂu symptoms or have been
exposed and have not been vaccinated.

The SHC also uses isolative measures.

“We encourage roommates who are

The Student Health Center is an outlet for students w
to stay away from other students and use the beds in the health center.

sick to come down and stay with us to
avoid exposing a well roommate,” said
Horton, who also said that a student with
a sick roommate may choose to stay with
a friend until the roommate is off medi-
cation and without fever for 24 hours.

“We are asking [sick] people to get
their friends~a ﬂu buddy—to get them
meals to go, rather than coming and ex-
posing those people in the dining hall,”
continued Horton.

Sick students can ﬁll out the brief
“Sick Meals” form on the W&L website
to let their “ﬂu buddy” pick up a meal

ith flu-like symptoms. sick students are asked

ANDREA OWEN/ Staff Writer

for them.

A “ﬂu buddy” is asked to wear aimask
around their sick friend. The SHC em-
ployees use these masks themselves
whenever they are around people with
inﬂuenza-like symptoms and ask these
sick students to wear them whenever
they are in public.

More information about ﬂu buddies,
as well as preventing and ﬁghting the
ﬂu, may be found at the W&L website’s
Health Library.

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

While many students choose to study
abroad during the fall or winter terms
of the school year, others are restricted
from that option as a result of their ma-
jor’s heavy course load. W&L sponsors
several summer study abroad programs
to make study abroad a viable option for
all students.

One popular summer study abroad
experience is the Virginia Program at
Oxford. The summer school program is
run through St. Anne’s College at Ox-
ford University in England. According
to Associate Professor of English Holly
Pickett, VPO is a six-week study ofthe
literature and history of Renaissance
England. Students earn three credits in
both history and English that they can
use to fulﬁll FDR requirements. ‘

Senior Jillian Oyama participated in
VPO because she felt that studying at
Oxford would provide her with the most
in-depth understanding of English his-
tory and literature. ,

.“I wanted to go to Oxford because I

wanted to have a study abroad experi\

ence that would fully immerse me in
what I was studying,” said Oyama. “And
I had always wanted to go to England,
so this seemed like the perfect opportu-
nity.”

Junior Sarah Williams was attracted to
VPO because the courses satisfy W&L’s
FDR requirements. '

Said Williams: “As a dual’-idegree stu-
dent, I’m required to have 140 credits
rather than the typical 1 I3. Going abroad
in the summer rather than the school
year enabled me to garner extra credits
I would have otherwise needed to over-
load to get.”

By studying at Oxford, students get a
taste of the English college class struc-
ture, which, according to wlu.edu, com-
bines daily lectures and weekly tutorials.
Oyama explained that the tutorial classes
consisted of three students who were led
in discussion by a tutor.

“During tutorials we would have an

I - Students take f

intellectual battle basically, which re-
ally forces you to think and develop your
ideas thoroughly, and often on the spot,”
said Oyama.

An additional unique aspect of the
program is that students from multiple
Virginia colleges and universities par-
ticipate and study all together at Oxford.
Both Williams and Oyama agreed that
this was one of their favorite parts of
their experience abroad.

“I was able to form friendships with

light in summer study

Academic Exchange Service, DAAD.
This summer, DAAD is offering W&L’s
Research Internships in Science and En-
gineering program, known as RISE. The
RISE program is geared toward students
majoring in the sciences and will send
students to research institutions through-
out Germany. Although the program is
in Germany, students are not required to
speak German.

According to wlu.edu, "RISE partici-
pants work with a post doctorate scien-

receive a scholarship as a stipend for
their living expenses.

German Professor Paul Youngman,
who is new to W&L’s campus this year,
is W&L’s DAAD ambassador. As the
DAAD Ambassador, Youngman is the
point of reference for students interested
in applying for this summer’s RISE pro-
gram. Youngman’s job is to spread the
word about opportunities in Germany
for both students and faculty.

As a new faculty member, Youngman

W&L students and faculty participate in the Virginia Program at Oxford. Pictured left to right: Jillian

 

Oyama ’13, Chris Schneck ’12, Eric Gehman ’13, Professor Holly Pickett and Kyle McGinnis ’12.

people from colleges all over Virginia
that I typically wouldn’t have met,” Wil-
liams said.

Another summer study abroad oppor-
tunity is available through The German

tist in Max-Planck-Institutes, which are
free standing research institutions. Un-
dergraduates gain hands-on lab experi-
ence and are exposed to Germany’s sci-
ence social network. RISE participants

wants more members of the W&L com-
munity to be aware of his role within the
DAAD. Youngman became involved
with the DAAD about ﬁve years ago. He
was approached because he has had ex-

tensive experience working in Germany.

“I think a lot of students don’t under-
stand why they need to go see someone
in the German department for this, but
I’ve been working a lot with scientists so
that’s why I’m connected to the DAAD,”
Youngman said.

Outside of the DAAD, Youngman also
works with another study abroad pro-
gram called AmCham and he is promot-
ing it for the ﬁrst time this year at W&L.
It is designed for business, engineering,
physics and computer science majors.
AmCham provides participants with
paid internship experience at a German
company.

“AmCham was started by a,German
lawyer in Atlanta. He decided that he
was a little frustrated with the state of
German study in the US, so he combined
the US Chamber of Commerce and the
German Chamber of Commerce to pro-
mote business and German as a lan-
guage,” Youngman said.

According to Youngman, because Am-
Cham internships exist in the private
sector and require more social interac-
tion, students must be a double major
in German and one of the business or
mentioned science majors in order to
participate.

Youngman said he hopes that AmCham
will be successful at W&L, but said ‘it
is difﬁcult to ﬁnd students who double
major in both German and business.‘ He
has seen more overlap in the majors like
chemistry, biology and other sciences,
which are better suited for the RISE pro-
gram.

Applications for the RISE program are
due I an. 31 and applications for VPO are
due Feb. 15.

“It’s all totally worth it — if for no other
reason than making connections with
people for future opportunities,” Young-
man said. '

 

  

UNIVERSITY LEBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE Ui‘iiVERSlTY

LE)§li‘\lGTON, VA 24450
«Wit 3 0 2013 . .

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

new

 

  Potential

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Last Tuesday in the Science Center,
Courtney A. Peckens, a Ph. D. candidate
in civil and environmental engineering

. at the University of Michigan, delivered

a lecture entitled, “Highly Compressive
Real-time Sensing Nodes for Structural
Monitoring Application based on Co-
chlea-Inspired Design.”

in other words, Peckens explored the
functionality of a low-power sensor node
as demonstrated on a structural monitor-
ing application.

Using sensing and data integration by
the biological nervous system, Peckens
plans to make great improvements in data
management and overall energy con-
sumption in engineered systems.

“In an age of a crumbling U.S. infra-
structure, the upkeep and maintenance of
bridges is a challenge worth undertaking
in an innovative, scientiﬁc fashion,”_ she
said.

zerland and the Tamar Bridge in Saltash,
England employ this structural monitor-
ing system.

When installing this system, one must
choose between wired and wireless moni-
toring. The advantages of the latter seem
to greatly outweigh those of the former.

Wireless monitoring installs at a low
cost, deploys dense networks of sensors
and is capable of parallel processing. The
J indo Bridge in South Korea and the New
Carqinuez Bridge in California are the
latest bridges to be installed with wireless
monitoring.

Whether wired or wireless, however,
the sensing system is not without its limi-
tations. ‘

“There is an inherent delay in the sys-
tem due to conversions between analog
and digital domains,” said Peckens. “The
system requires a reliable power source.”

Biological systems, according to Peck-

in biensing

ilar membrane, Peckens is converting the
magnitude of the vibrations of bridges to
electrical pulses.

Utilizing an Optimal Filter Bark De-
sign, Peckens’ goal is clear.

“My colleagues and I hope to mini-
mize signal distortion incurred through
frequency decomposition,” said Peck-
ens. To do so, Peckens has constructed
modular, low-power and low-cost neural
sensing units.

Using a test bed at Pusan National Uni-
versity in South Korea, researchers have
tested Peckens’ technology by applying
an input signal to shake the table as a
bridge might be rocked by an earthquake.
The bridge was unharmed.

“A stack of sensors monitored respons-
es to the breach in the structure,” said
Peckens. “The information was resent
to a centralized location, where human
intelligence immediately prompted and

What remained of the I-35W Mississippi River Bridge in Minneapolis after it collapsed in 2007. The
collapse could have been prevented by Peckens’ biologically-inspired sensing nodes.

Peckens proposed using a structural
monitoring system, in which a bridge is
maintained by a sensing system which
acquires data, which is ultimately pro-
cessed by an end user. In turn, the end
user reverses the process, sending evalu-
ations of the data all the way back to the
sensing system, thereby “teaching” the
system how to respond to new data.

The Stork Bridge in Winterthur, Swit-

ens, can offer a potential solution.

Drawing inspiration from signal pro-
cessing techniques used by the central
nervous system, Peckens is exploring the
use of biology for the next generation of
sensuators and actuators.

By engineering the same process that
occurs when the cochlea, in the human
auditory system, interprets a sound wave
through mechanical vibrations of the bas-

thereafter taught the monitors how to cor-
rect the problem.”

In summary, Peckens proposes the
widespread use of a sensing unit that uti-
lizes the mechanisms employed by the
biological functions of the human audi-
tory system.

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Rebel Errtr_ean soldiers call for release of
political prisoners

Rebel Eritrean soldiers sieged the Information Ministry on Monday calling
for a release of all political prisoners in the state. After some negotiating it seems
that the mutineers have surrendered. Reports released on Tuesday stated that the
capital of Asmara was “calm” again. However, many ofﬁcials remain unclear as
to the details of the negotiation.

New law for Morocmn women’s rights

After many protests and demonstrations, women’s rights groups in Morocco
were happy to see the first step taken towards ending violence against women.
A new law was passed on Tuesday ending the law that stated rapists could avoid
charges by marrying their victims. This reform comes a year after a rape victim
committed suicide when she was forced to marry her attacker.

Explosions in Baghdad

Three separate explosions occurred on Tuesday in and around Baghdad. The
ﬁrst occurred near an army base outside the city when a suicide bomber drove
past in a car packed with explosives. Two other car bombs went off that day. ‘At
least 17 are reported dead and another 50 wounded.

U.S. expands North Korea sanctions

On Thursday the United States recently expanded sanctions /against North
Korea and denounced their ongoing nuclear testing. The UN followed with their
own set of stricter sanctions against the state. On Friday, in the wake of this in-
temational tension, North Korea threatened to attack South Korea if they support
the UN sanctions.

Feminisl_:s rotest outside World
Economic orum

Ukrainian feminist activists protested outside the World Economic Forum in
Swiss resort of Davos. The activists were from the group Femen. The topless
women set off ﬂares while trying to cross a security fence. They claimed that
the Forum, which ﬁnally drew to a close on Saturday, was not presenting the
interests of women.

Protests in Baku

Protesters gathered in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, on Saturday. The pro-
test was sparked by a similar demonstration in a small northern town earlier in
the week. Protesters called for the resignation of the current president, llham
Aliyev. Police came quickly to the scene and arrested about 40 of the protesters.

Czech Republic elects new president

‘ Milos Zeman is the new president of the Czech Republic, bringing in at least
54.8% of the vote on Saturday. His victory is the result of the ﬁrst direct elec-
tion within the country and ends the ten-year presidency of Vaclav Klaus. EU
ofﬁcials are conﬁdent that Zeman will take more of a pro-European stance than
his predecessor.

French and Malian forces fight to push out
rebels

French and Malian forces continue their ﬁght attempting to push rebel forces
out of the northern part of Mali. The troops were under attack early Saturday but
by that afternoon had captured the rebel stronghold of Gao. No ofﬁcial report on
casualties has been released. The liberation forces allowed for the return of the
town’s mayor who had previously ﬂed to Bamako.

NY investment

By Douglas McNie|
STAFF WRITER

On March 13 20 Washington and Lee
sophomores will depart for New York
City for the New York Investment Trip.
The Trip lasts through Saturday March
16.

The students will have the opportunity
to visit big name ﬁrms such as Wells
Fargo, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, J. P.

mercial real estate. They will get to meet
with Washington and Lee alumni at each
of the 12 ﬁrms. They will also attend an
alumni reception wither over 50 former
generals who currently call New York
City home.

Jensen said highly recommends the
trip. He said he has proof that not only

“There is no doubt there is a correlation between

going on this trip and gaining success in thejob

market. ”

JOHN JENSEN, Assistant Dean of the Williams School ‘
 

Morgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, De-
loitte, Ernst & Young LLP, New York

Stock Exchange, Morgan Stanley, Mar--

cus & Millichap and Bank of America;
and will hopefully gain a better under-
standing if the world of Investment
banking is right for them.

According to John Jensen, Assistant
Dean of the Williams School, as sopho-
more and junior year internships are
becoming more important the trip has
switched from seniors looking for a post
college career to younger students look-
ing for advice and potentially summer
internships.

The students will visit 12 ﬁrms rang-
ing from to investment banking to com-

is the trip informative but it is also lu-
crative.

Nine students who attended the trip
last year will be interning at ﬁrms they
visited this summer and two students
from last year interned in a commercial

‘real estate ﬁrm they visited last summer.

“There is no doubt there is a corre-
lation between going on this trip and
gaining success in the job market,” said,
Jensen.

Jensen wants to emphasize that being a
Williams School Major is not a require-
ment for the trip. The skills needed to
succeed in ﬁnance or similar industries
are not only learned in Williams School
majors. He cites himself as an example.

3'55‘

trip lauches careers

  

Jensen was a History major at Wash-
ington and Lee University and he later
went to spend ten years working on Wall

Street.

1:. l

 

 

sign up sheet located outside Jensen’s

Students interested in applying for the oﬂice in‘Huntley Hall.

trip should sign up by February 8 on the

   

 

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28,2013

(

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

opinions

 

. The Red Lin

By Yates Wilburn
STAF F W R ITER

While the UN Security Council
(UNSC) has been largely a non-factor
in the brutal violence of the Syrian Civil
War as a whole, the council’s individual
members have played signiﬁcant roles
outside the organization for better or for
worse. While each of the P5 has brought
something to the table in an effort to re-
solve this situation for their own favor—
whether that involves Bashir al-Assad
in power or not—the United States has
made the most effort and effected the
most change in terms of international
action on Syria, hoping to ride the wave

- of the Arab Spring and knock over a bel-

ligerent dictator and constant ally to Iran
and its proxies. Regardless of its inten-
tions or efforts, the United States has
repeatedly allowed challenges to its nu-
merous “red lines” go unanswered. This
conﬂict has taken tens of thousands of
lives and has once again put the inade-
quacies of the UNSC and uncompromis-
ing multi-lateralism in the spotlight.

How did it get this bad?

The United States’ current position

resulted from failed attempts at peace‘

ever since the violence began almost
two years ago. Previous efforts to stop
the violence failed primarily due to the
resilient protection of al-Assad by Rus-
sia and China from any meaningful and
real action from the UNSC. Primarily
motivated by economic investments in
the form of arms sales (China) and a lone
friendly Mediterranean port following
the Cold War (Russia), these P5 mem-
bers have done all but publicly encour-
age al-Assad to continue slaughtering his
people. In the case of Russia, al-Assad
receive direct assistance in the form of

helicopter gunships and a half-hearted,
later aborted Spetsnaz landing in June
of 2012. While China hasn’t even pre-
tended to have an idea for peace, Russia
offered to act as a mediator between the
two sides early in the conﬂict provided
al-Assad stayed in power. Later, as that
became a lost cause, Russia offered al-
Assad a safe haven in Russia should he
decide to jump ship. All things consid-
ered, this would probably be a favorable
and practical alternative to other efforts
both past and present to end the war.
American eﬂforts at conﬂict resolu-
tion have taken the form of the “Friends
of Syria” international diplomatic task
force that has successfully managed to
isolate al-Assad, his family, and inner
circle from most of the outside world
ﬁnancially, and has put incredible pres-
sure on their remaining international
allies Russia and China. This effort
was the culmination of the multiple
failed attempts to halt the violence in
Syria through peace deals and consider-
ably mild resolutions via the UNSC (in
both February and July of 2012), Arab
League, and European Union. More
speciﬁcally, the US organized this effort
during the implementation and assumed
failure of the UN-Arab League peace
plan (UNSC Resolution 2043) put into
action in April of 2012 under the guid-
ance of Koﬁ Annan. Designed to act to
stop the violence, the US put together
this body of over 90 nations follow-
ing even a denouncement resolution in
the UNSC. Through this body, member
states have been able to coordinate ac-
tions against Syria outside the UN and
the inﬂuence of Russia and China. With

They asked, "How are you?” ,

. (Doeyou actually- care hoviil am?)-

I replied, "Good, how are you?” 

(I’minot very well, though. And I-don't truly care

about your well-being.) I I ‘ "p I '

. ' Sometimes, we don't really mean it. My" thoughts, in
parentheses, might even resemble yours at times.

Once I asked someone, "I-low are you?” They replied,

"Good, how are you??,’ I res
-"Good, howlare you?” ;
~ . I, and maybe even

By Anna Brodsky
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF RUSSIAN

To the Editors,

I write to correct an error‘ in your sto-
ry “Lee-Jackson Day Flags a Tradition,”
(January 21, 2013, p. 2). There, your re-
porter incorrectly refers to a controversy
over the “traditional ﬂying of Confeder-
acy-related ﬂags for the [Lee-Jackson]
holiday in Lexington.” In fact, there

never was a tradition of ﬂying Confed—‘

erate ﬂags from the city ﬂagpoles. It
has been the traditional annual practice

_ that on Lee-Jackson Day, private groups

four meetings so far, the coalition has
been the most coherent effort to halt the
violence so far.

In addition, the United States helped
facilitate the election of a uniﬁed leader-
ship of the military and political wings
of the countless rebel groups operating
in Syria, bringing what was a disorga-
nized rabble of ﬁghters and activists—
each with their own goals—under one
united command as the Syrian National
Coalition. This group only came togeth-
er at the urging of the US, who refused
to recognize the Syrian National Council
as the legitimate government of Syria,
with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
criticizing it as a body made up of people
who “have in many instances not been in
Syria for 20, 30, or 40 years,” calling on
a new group to be formed with represen-
tatives from the frontlines being present
before any recognition could be given.
The Obama Administration feared that
demanding anything less would risk a
repeat of Iraq, where recognition and re-
liance upon a similar body of expatriates
made a complete mess of any transition
and left the United States running the
government of the country for several
years before even a provisional govern-
ment could be put into place. This de-
mand motivated the SNC to ﬁnally put
aside their disagreements with other
rebel factions and unite, allowing more
aid, weapons, and political support to be
given by the international community.

In the futureeaside from the obvious
concern of continued violence by tradi-
tional means—the United States must
concern itself with the considerable
stockpile of chemical and biological
weapons possessed by al-Assad and his
military, as he grows more desperate. As
President Obama, Sec. of State Clinton
and many others in the US government
have wamed, the use of these weapons
is a “red line.” While ‘there have been
many other “red lines” drawn in the sand
during this war by the same people, this
one must be completely unbreakable.

The ﬁnal “red line” has been drawn
at chemical weapons, a possibility that
looks more and more realistic with each
passing day. Now, this country is in a
situation where action is not only an op-
tion, but also the only option. There is no
more bluff al-Assad can call. Allowing
the use of these weapons and respond-
ing with anything less than devastating
retribution against Assad and his forces
would be‘ setting a horrifying precedent
that future tyrants will look to as they
carry out violence against their people.
Military intervention (at the very least
one that is limited to securing said weap-
ons) in such a contingency must not “be
on the table,” nor should it be a “threat,”
it should be an unquestioned promise the
United States must be prepared to follow
through with.

p‘onc_led withoutfthinking, _ ‘

‘you,.ought :tol_bé more sincere. "

 A  By’ Graham Cotton A

“ §EAD COPYEDITUR

. to the editor

assemble in Lexington to parade down
Main Street and carry the Confederate
ﬂag. That was an unobjectionable exer-
cise of their First Amendment rights.

In 2011, however, a private group
insisted that the City of Lexington was
obligated to ﬂy Confederacy-related
ﬂags from municipal property. That
amounted to serious over-reaching. Far
from exercising their free~speech rights,
the private group in effect argued that
others, too,--all the citizens of Lexing-
ton, in fact—- had to send their message

for them, by ﬂying their ﬂag from city-
owned property. Nothing in the First
Amendment requires that. It would be a
crazy world where private groups got to
dictate to cities what they had to display
on municipal property.

Your reporter quotes Brandon Dors-
ey, commander of the Stonewall Bri-
gade Camp, who claims that opponents
of forcing Lexington to ﬂy the Confed-
erate ﬂag from its ﬂagpoles are “older,
afﬂuent, liberal, white people.” I can
assure you that it is not simply aﬂluent

esof Friendship

 

By Marc Conner
ENGLISH DEPARTMENT CHAIR

Dear Ring Tum Phi,

I was pleased to see. Krysta Hu-
ber’s article in the January 14 edition
about the “quirky” courses being of-
fered in the W&L Spring Term. The
range and unique nature of our Spring
Term courses is garnering national at-
tention, and everywhere I go in aca-
demic circles, people want to know
more about the Spring Term, how we
work it, what the courses are like, how
it is for students and faculty. I think
one of the great things we have going
with the Spring Term is the contrast it
gives us with our long terms—going
from the steady, intense pace of the
12-week fall and winter terms, into the
fully immersed, downright wild pace of
the 4-week Spring Term, offers a varia-
tion and a change that I ﬁnd energizing.
Today’s students are SO active and SO
busy, doing classes, service work, being
involved in church and community, ath-
letics, student leadership, and an active
social life, that the academic year can
seem overwhelming at times. How won-
derful, then, in the Spring Term to focus
on one thing and only one thing, a trans-

whites who opposed the measure. When
collecting signatures to oppose the ﬂy-
ing of Confederate ﬂags from municipal
property, I spoke to a lot of people from
a broad racial and economic spectrum:
many of them told me that they felt in-
censed and threatened by seeing the
Confederacy related ﬂags waving from
the city’s ﬂagpoles.

The city has now passed an ordinance
limiting the ﬂags to be ﬂown from Lex-
ington ﬂagpoles to the ﬂags of the Unit-
ed States and the State of Virginia. That

editor

formative course that engages the mind
and spirit in such rich and provocative
ways as does “The Physics of Music,” or
studying Moby Dick on a whaling ship,
or computer forensics, or the chemistry
of cooking (in Italyl). One other point
that bears emphasis, as we approach
registration: as with any academic term,
not every student will get her ﬁrst choice
for a Spring Term course—and this can
seem especially tough with the Spring
Term, when that one unique course isn’t
available. But our studies of student
experience in the Spring Term tell us
that 98% of the students end up “very
satisﬁed” with the class they eventually
end up with, even if it wasn’t their ﬁrst
choice—98%! That’s a success rate that
is virtually unheard-of in such a ma-
jor academic initiative. It’s testament
to how many great courses our faculty
have created for this dynamic, and truly
“W&L,” Spring Term.

Marc C. Conner

Ballengee Professor of English
Chair, Department of English
Director of the Spring Term

does not prevent private groups from
exercising their First Amendment rights.
And, in fact, in the two years since the
enactment of the ordinance, private
groups have assembled on Lee-Jackson
Day to carry their ﬂags and send their
message.

Anna Brodsky
Associate Professor Russian

 

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&life

 

M O N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

May the foods be ever flavorful:

By Graham Colton
HEAD copv EDITOR

From 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. last Satur-
day in Evans Dining Hall, the Multicul-
tural Student Association (MSA) hosted
its ﬁrst annual Hungry Games, a cook-
ing competition where three judges as-
sessed the presentation, originality and
taste of the cultural food creations of
eight teams.

The team of Kennedy Castillo ’16,
Oyumaa Daichinkhuu ’16 and Karen
Villarroel ’ 16 were awarded the top
prize of a $75 Walmart gift card for their
ripe plantain casserole.

For their candied yams and deviled
eggs, Randl Dent ’ l 5 and Candace May-
nard ’l5 ﬁnished in second place and
took home a $50 Walmart gift card.

And in third place, taking off with
a $25 Walmart gift card for “Sandy
Beach,” a version of pineapple fried
rice, were Christy Cui ’ 14, Ginny Huang
’l4, Wenda Tu ’l4 and Cathy Wang ’15.

Lest you think that the ﬁrst place team
simply whipped up a ripe plantain casse-
role out of thin air, let it be known that
they had to overcome their fair share of
adversity to bring home the blue ribbon.

“Finding a kitchen was really hard,”
lamented Castillo. “First, we wanted to
work in Hillel, but that didn’t ‘work be-
cause this dish has beef and dairy. And
then [the] other dorms’ kitchens were
occupied.”

But Castillo and company kept faith.

With some help, Castillo and compa-
ny chopped, cured and caramelized their
way into culinary celebrity. “We cooked
in the I-House, so thanks to some people
in the I-House who made this possible,”
acknowledged Castillo.

Second-to-best and crestfallen was
the dynamic duo of Dent and Maynard.
Maynard, visibly upset yet admirably
willing to be interviewed, defended her-
team’s dish.

“We really wanted to capture some—‘
thing that’s Southern, something that
captured the African-American com-
munity, but something that everyone,
regardless of where you’re from,’ could
enjoy,” Maynard said. “The candied

9

let the Hungry Games begin

Pictured above: Kennedy Castillo ’16, Karen Villarroel ’16 and Oyumaa Daichinkhuu ’16 pose with their first prize-winning plate, ripe
plantain casserole, at the first annual Hungry Games hosted by the Multicultural Student Assocation this past Sunday.

yams were sweet, but they also had a
lot of ﬂavor. And with the deviled eggs,
that was a good combination.”

Despite just falling short of the top
spot, their bone-stickin,’ tongue-lickin,’
down-home Southern sustenance really
hit the proverbial spot, in the opinion
of myself and many other foodies inter-
viewed.

And last but certainly not least was
“Sandy Beach,” the tropical take on clas-
sic fried rice, brought to you by Cathy
Wang and her gang. But who would

have known how to turn a plain ol’ Asian
dish into such a crowd-pleasing hit?

Mom, of course. Cui explained: “It
was a homemade dish that my mom
made. She sent me the recipe, I looked
at the picture, and it looked fun.”

The recipe really can’t be found any-
where else. “It comes from a little island
in China,” Cui clariﬁed. “People there,
they eat a lot of tropical fruit. Pine-
apple’s one of them, and it tastes really
good.”

The Hungry Games started, as Presi-

dent Jillian Oyama ’l3 opined, “because
MSA is kind ofseen as the minority club
a lot of the time. But one of my goals
as President is to get rid of that impres-
sion because I want it to be a blending of
cultures. Cooking is a great way to do
that because every culture has food. We
were originally deciding to have a pot-
luck, but we thought it would be more
interesting to make it a competition, so
that way we could bring in a Dean, too.”

Dean David M. Leonard, his wife

I Cindy and Oyama served as judges for

the Hungry Games.

In addition to the teams listed above,
fellow competitors were: Kendre Barnes
’ l 3 and Hannah Esqueda ’ 13, who made
fajitas and horchata; Jordan Edgren ’l5
and Deirdre Tobin ’ l 5, sticky toffee
pudding; Thomas Groesbeck ’ 14, Cuban
crushed potatoes; David McKennon ’ l4,
clubhouse chicken squares; and Lauren
Mosely ’ I5, taco pie.

Students make 25th annual Lip Sync a smashing success

By Lindsey Burke
snxrr warren

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

LINDSEY BURKE
HENDLEY BADCOCK
ATHENA CAO
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEYRUSSELL
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

ANNA BRODSKY
MARC CONNER

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
KANE THOMAS
JONATHAN SELLS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty. parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead todiscovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board,
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise lndependent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to editsubmissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

which can be reached at

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Every year, Students Against Rock-
bridge Area Hunger (SARAH) hosts
a danc.e competition fundraiser at the
school’s Pavilion. This time around, con-
testants from different sororities, frater-
nities, and the student dance group, The
Klazics, choreographed and performed
dances in front of the crowd.

Senior President of SARAH Perry
Given served as the main announcer of
the event, by introducing each dance
group on stage. With the help of junior
Vice President Christopher lves, the two
made it possible for a smooth show.

The entry fees for the audience and
the entering groups formed the proceeds
that SARAH donates to the Rockbridge
Area Relief Association (RARA) and the
Glasgow Food Pantry.

“These proceeds are one step forward
in ﬁghting against local hunger,” said
Sam Campbell, Co-Sophomore Chair for
SARAH. .

This year, the judges were three of
the school’s very own faculty members.
For each dance, the judges indicated
to Campbell and Brett Bauer, the other
Co-Sophomore Chair, when to “gong” a
group off stage. At the end of the night,

the judges were responsible for naming
the winners.

“Essentially, the groups are trying to
win the crowd’s vote as well as thejudg-
es’ vote,” said Campbell.

Freshman participant Claire Towns-
ley commented on the judging process.
Said Townsley, “The show was judged
fairly and accurately, keeping the com-
petition entertaining and civil.”

Groups this year ranged from the
cheetah-themed to nineties throwbacks
to boys in cut-off jean shorts. However,
every dance was kept sufﬁciently appro-
priate for the faculty and kids that came
to watch the event.

The Klazics came out with yet anoth-
er crowd-pleasing performance. How-
ever, Kappa Alpha Theta ﬁnished up on
top this year, followed by Chi Omega at
second place and Chi Psi at third.

“It wasa fun way to bond with my
sisters while supporting a great cause,”
said freshman Sarah Schaffer, a member
of the winning Theta group. “Winning
wasjust an added bonus, because we put
so much work into our dance.”

Last year, SARAH raised around
$8,000 through the event.

It .11.

According to Campbell,
aimed'to surpass those numbers this
year. This goal was reached by Thursday,
when sales were already comparatively
higher than the previous year. Over 200
tickets were sold before the event, and

numbers were raised even higher with

door ticket sales.

“It was great to see so many people
involved for such a great cause and for
a night of fun,” said freshman partici-
pant Katie Wildes. “The upperclassmen
that came were sosupportive and really
encouraged the freshman up there to do
their best and have a good time.”

  

Congratulations!

1st Place:
Kappa Alpha Theta

2nd Place:
Chi Omega

3d Place:

Chi Psi

SARAH .

   

Pictured above: The members of the winning Kappa Alpha Theta team smile and pose for the camera
after the Lip Sync last Friday night, a highly successful event which raised over $8000 for charity.

I

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

Nothing tastes better than a hearty
bowl of soup, especially after the cold
weather this past week. Except maybe
twenty cups of soup. And no, that‘s not
an exaggeration.

This past Sunday, Campus Kitchen at
Washington and Lee hosted an all-you-
can-eat local fundraiser, creatively titled
the Souper Bowl, where twelve Lexing-
ton restaurants serve a variety of soups
in Evans Dining Hall from 1 1 am-2 pm.

Plenty of businesses were offering
their best soups: The Red Hen, Lexing-
ton Golf and Country Club, the F.-Cafe’,
Full Circle Catering, and many other
nearby eateries were there. From chili
to lobster bisque to chicken and rice, the

multitude of soups was incredible. My
personal favorite was the sweet potato
and chicken from The Bistro, but all of
them were delicious (and yes, I tried ev-
erysingle one).

The ﬁrst ever Souper Bowl put a new
spin on fundraising. For students, the
suggested donation price was only ten
dollars — quite a bargain for eating ‘until
you explode, especially since the pro-
ceeds went to charity. The earnings will
beneﬁt the Weekend Backpack Program.
a program dedicated to eliminating local
child hunger.

Through school lunch programs,
most children are guaranteed breakfast
and lunch, Monday through Friday.

However, when the weekend arrives, no
such meals are provided. The Backpack
Program was started in 2009 in hopes of
feeding local children on Saturday and
Sunday. Campus Kitchen ﬁlls different
backpacks with at least seven food items
each. then distributes them to the kids in
need every Friday. On Monday mom-
ing, the kids return the backpacks to re-
peat the cycle. _

This program is essential to the Rock-
bridge County education system; many
teachers acknowledge the fact that their
hungry students often struggle to con-
centrate on empty stomachs. At Waddell
Elementary, 20 percent of students re-
ceive a backpack. the lowest percentage

number of the schools involved. In con-
trast, at Natural Bridge Elementary, 64
percent of students receive a backpack,
the highest comparative percentage.

With such an overwhelming need in
the area, I was pleasantly surprised by
the light-hearted and festive atmosphere
at the Souper Bowl. There was live en-
tertainment scheduled throughout the
entire event, thanks to many talented
folks; a cappella groups sang and a few
daring musicians played instruments, in-
cluding a guitarist and a cellist.

The children who participate in the
Backpack Program helped run the event,
serving food and cleaning up, all the
while smiling and chatting. Plenty of

0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&Iife

. CK ren owl Sunday

people attended, from W&L students
and staff to community members and
families. The ﬁrst ever Souper Bowl
was such a smashing success; I ’m keep-
ing my ﬁngers crossed that it will be-
come an annual event.

But it doesn't stop here - Campus
Kitchen can use your help all year round!
lf you want to continue to support the
Backpack Program through donations or
Wednesday afternoon volunteer shifts,
please email Jenny Davidson atjdavz'd-
sor7@w/u.edz1 or check out the Campus
Kitchen website online.

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28,2013

arts&| ife

 

A needed esca

ByJosh White
STAFF WRITER

There are, it seems, a surprising
number of students on campus who are
unaware of one of W&L’s most recent
spectacular additions. That is the Walden
Cabin, located right here on the universi-
ty’s own back campus. The Cabin, built
by Henri Hammond-Paul ‘I2, was based

off the one famously depicted in Henry _

David Thoreau’s Walden.

Last Thursday evening, I decided to
visit the cabin for myself. Although I
hadn’t read Walden yet, I was familiar
with the story, and was eager to get out-
side and experience it for myself.

I packed up my bag at around 12:30
p.m. after ﬁnishing my homework for
the night. I brought two sleeping bags
(due to the "arctic weather forecast), a pil-
low, an extra ﬂashlight to go along with
the lantern provided by the Outing Club,
some scalding hot chocolate, a joumal,
one subpar pen, and some other extrane-
ous camping supplies that always stay in
my pack.

I was given very speciﬁc directions to
the cabin, and if it had been daytime, I
expect it would have been easy to ﬁnd.
Sadly, however, due to the overcast sky
and time of clay, I found myself wander-
ing through the woods as snow came
down in ﬂurries for quite a bit longer
than would have been enjoyable. Trust
me when I say the woods can get quite
eerie when you’re walking around alone
at night. Against all odds, I ﬁnally spot-
ted the cabin through the trees at around

1:30 am, and it was a welcome sight,
indeed. n

The cabin is quaint and peaceful, and
the surrounding wooded area couldn’t
have been chosen more perfectly. At the
entrance, there is a porch and awning
with a wooden rocking chair for quiet
reflection. The cabin itself consists of
just one room and includes a cot in the
corner, a neat hand-powered lantern, a
few windows, and a lock for your peace
of mind after a longjourney in the dark.

I would have liked to sit outside for a
while, but due to the time and tempera-
ture, I had to make some sacriﬁces. Af-
ter snuggling into my doubled-up sleep-
ing bags, I took some time to just sit and
think for a while. The absence of tech-
nology was actually something I hadn’t
experienced yet since coming back from
winter break, and in the middle of a
stressful school week, I couldn’t have
imagined anything better.

Pulling out my journal for a truly
Thoreau-like experience, I began to
write down some of my reﬂections (as
well as a few notes for this article). Un-
fortunately, the ink in my pen was freez-
ing so I didn’t get to write as much as I
would have liked. I checked my handy
thermometer - it was 12° - and realized
the night wasn’t going to turn out to be
as pleasant as I would have liked. After
the pen drew its final breaths, I called it
quits and closed myself into my cocoon.
The ‘chilly weather failed to improve

l
‘i
I‘

_:e

 

ed from getting a solitary experience to
merely not suffering hypothermia.

With that said, I can’t exactly rec-
ommend you to visit the cabin during
a night of such extreme weather, but I
can say that the cabin is deﬁnitely worth

t roug outt e night, an my goa s l - I

.l'7“-H . ~ ~*" 4- .3. -

giving a visit once it gets a littl‘é_warmer
out. 1-, for one, plan on returning in the
spring. If you want to reserve the cabin
for a night, either now or in the future,
you can contact either the Outing Club
or Emily Crawford ‘I4 to schedule a

time and receive further instructions.

W H

pe: night at Walden .

   

  
t is wesome getaway ocate
right on campus, it would be crazy for
you not to take advantage of it at least
once during your four years here, so get

outside!

1»

 

  

 

By Caroline Hamp

STAFF WRITER

The third Monday of January, which
fell on January 21st this year, marks the
celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.’s birthday. It is a national holiday, so
banks, post offices, and public schools
close for the day. And yet, Washington
and Lee’s class schedule forges ahead as
usual.

I heard a million and two complaints
last Monday about how we don’t cel-
ebrate MLK Day and how disrespectful
that was. Let’s be honest, you all just
wanted to get out of classes! Because
we did celebrate MLK Day, and in a big
way: Terrence Roberts, one of the Little
Rock Nine, spoke in Lee Chapel on Sun-
day evening in honor of King.

V The Little Rock Nine was a group of
nine African-American students who, in
1957, were enrolled in Little Rock Cen-
tral High School in hopes of initiating
gradual integration. It was a huge step
forward for the American people and the
Civil Rights Movement. Segregation
and racism had been openly practiced
since 1619, dominating American cul-
ture since the intentional implementa-
tion of enslavement.

“If you practice something for 335
years, you tend to get good at it. We, the
American people, had become practiced
at discrimination,” explained Roberts.

So, after 335 years of segregation,
how is direct and forceful integration
handled? With a lot of anger, hatred,
violence, and fear. Every morning when
Roberts walked into his tenth grade
homeroom, he knowingly accepted what
the rest of the day would entail: there
was 100 percent certainty that he would
be beaten up. Every day.

“Here is the dilemma: we get upset
with the people who have imperfections

I for most Americans permanently. The
American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012

I  takes away.the Bush tax cutsonly for

1 individuals making more than $400,000

$450,000. It also increased the payroll
taxbyl twolpercent for incomes up to
$1 13,700.and tax rates on dividends and
capital gains to 20 percent, inladdition

__from 15 percent for the top eamers. _
'1 _ The Joint Select Committee. on Deﬁ-
cit Reduction, a ‘bipartisan, 12-member

the Budget‘Control Act to reduce the
FEDERAL, deﬁcit by» $1.2 trillion over
the next decade. _But Goldsmith said the
act wouldiraise only '10 percenteoftliat
n$1‘.2 trillion total becausethe govem-

alI';_.i'-  2 e . A _ .
 According to-statistics from the Con-
gressioiial Budget 01Til:e,]if there had

panel, was created in August 2011 by» e A j 
. Program, ‘whichcommitted $470 bil- 

1. lion - andihas paid $387 billion -‘toibail  j:
3 out the banks and other ﬁnancial institu-"1 -

tions.’ "By the end of ‘ 2012, the interest 
declined and the-federal budget  . ,, 
merit spending will not be affected at. ' ‘I I ‘l I I

.a year and couples making more than.

to the 3.8- percent Medicare surcharge,-

. rate had

beennno ‘change in President Clinton_’s 1:
economic policies after he leftkoﬂicev

in 2001, there. would have, been a $5.6‘. ;, -.  ‘Goldsmithi f“If*you =gi_Ve<.¥ithis

ting MLK Day with

trillion federal surplus accumulated in pa '

. decade. ' .

But at the urging of President Bush, '

Congress passed ‘tax ‘cuts in 2001 and"
2003, which lowered both income’ 
ratesand capital gains tax rates, de-
creasing taxrevenue by ‘$1.8 billion

from 2002 to 2009. At the same’ time, 3‘ 

Bush spent $1,469 billion on the Iraq
and Afghanistan wars and defense.

After President Obama took office, 
"Congress passed a $787 billion 1stimu- it
his package tocut taxes and create job.s,~7 __

Sand createthe iTr"o‘ubled Asset Relief

jlvdeﬁcit totaIed'$l.1 trillion."

rate is already close to zero. A , ' :

sensitive industries Swill donwell,-but the

In theory, lbondholders win he iabie? ’ _’ V

_ » to make‘a:_gapitaI gain from the‘decIine-  ,
L . in the -iiiterest rate, but they should .not,/ 
‘ expect much return,‘ because the’iIltei'C:St:" '

 

 ith’S takeon post~,   

‘I  is  up. eo

reduction in the interest rate, 1 interest-
consumptiori«—spending "is going down
even-ritiorf  the ‘itivesttnent.

‘ r.-- ,9‘ " ' i sin’ ~_,‘;§;x«,{»_,

A-

   

    
   

: _for;_the StOCl§1.ﬁ)&rket.”   r '

 , .

1 erg:-1-. ' ""

c Finance Tip of the Week:
Get a Bank Account!

If you don’t have one already, sign up for a 
savings account. Not only do banks offer interest 
on your money, they also provide valuable
services speciﬁcally tailored for college students:
V check cashing, debit cards, online banking, %
balance alerts, personal loans, and direct deposit
are just some of the many perks!

... ‘

       
 
     
   
  

 

   
   
  
   
  
  

 



 

different than our own,” said Roberts.

Roberts, self-aware of his potential
anger, knew that he could not face those
imperfections with hatred. That would
turn ugly, fast. Instead, he took some
wise advice from Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. King had visited Roberts early
in his ministry and taught him one very
important lesson: There will not be prog-
ress unless you truly love your enemies.
This principle of nonviolence has stayed
with Roberts for his whole life.

For example, while teaching about
racial tensions, Roberts learned from

" one of his students that she had a rac-

ist grandfather. Roberts was neither an-
gry nor judgmental; he simply told her

i _ to continue to love him with even more

“In my wildest dreams, we could progress without legislation... we would have a gi-

ant, nation-wide dialogue on issues that matter. ’

}

TERRENCE ROBERTS a student from The Little Rock Nine ~
 

care than before.

Many people who attended Central
High with Roberts have since then called
him to express their deepest apologies

" and guilt for treating him poorly. One

man, who would stand and watch every
day as Roberts got beaten up in gym
class, regretted his inaction. Roberts,
ﬁlled with love, understood that this
man feared for his own life and immense
courage is not always easy to come by.

“In my wildest dreams, we could
progress without legislation,” said Rob-
erts, who believes in considerate com-
munication over angry ‘action. “We
would have a giant, nation-wide dia-
logue on issues that matter.”

Instead of rash or violent decisions,
the American people need to practice
more understanding and respect. Martin
Luther King, Jr. believed in nonviolent
principles. He believed in love, not hate,
and that is why he is still celebrated to-
day.

  

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

- A’ 3,

Zsllorts

Women’s basketball falls to York

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

Thursday night York College claimed
a 61-48 victory over Washington and
Lee women’s basketball.

York (15-4) made good on only 36.7
percent (22-60) of its ﬁeld goal at-
tempts, but they took 11 additional
shots and out-scored W&L by eight
points (13-5) at the foul line.

The Generals (6-10) held an early 4-3
lead, but the Spartans took a 16-6 lead
at the 9:28 mark of the first half. W&L
made four more ﬁeld goals out of 19 at-
tempts for the remainder of the half.

W&L opened the second half with
a 16-7 run over the ﬁrst 5:49. Senior
guard Megan Marks scored ﬁve points,
and four points came from both senior
forwards Rachel Warrick and Katy Wil-
son to make it a 37-32 game with 14:12
remaining. But after York’s junior for-
ward scored the next nine points of the
game, the Spartans held a 46-32 lead
with 8:32 left on the clock. York carried
a double-digit lead the rest of the way
toward the win.

As a team, W&L shot 40.8 percent
from the floor, but had 19 turnovers,
while just eight for York. Wilson and
ﬁrst-year forward Shelbi Hendricks led
the way with 11 points each.

Flrst-year Shelbi Hendricks

Courtesy of W&L Sports lnformatlon

club Bball in
its first year

This winter has much activity to offer as basket-
ball fans add yet another sports team to the list of
Washington and Lee clubs. Club Basketball, cre-
ated by ﬁrst-year Kyle Jaeger, perfectly combines
competition and enjoyment for players of all levels.

Jaeger started the club at W&L to keep up with his
high school pastime. “I missed playing highly com-
petitive pickup basketball,” Jaeger said. He says
that once he oﬂicially brought club basketball to the
University “a lot of great basketball players were
excited to be a part of it.”

Around 20 men make up the team. Not all partici-
pate at once, so that gives the players some ﬂexibil-
ity. “We try to practice two times .a week on week
nights,” J aeger said. Jaeger is solely responsible for
organizing practice, dealing with the budget, and
managing the team. There is no oﬁicial coach, but
the men learn from one another and encourage each
other on the court. Club sports offer the unique
opportunity to be completely student-led, entirely
peer-oriented. Relationships form quickly simply
through love of the sport and the drive to be out
there playing.

J aeger explained that they have had a lot of sched-
ule changes, since this is their ﬁrst year as a club.
The team hopes to create a solid schedule to carry
them through the rest of winter term. For more in-
formation regarding Club Basketball and its sched-
ule, contact Kyle Jaeger at jaegerk16@mail.wlu.
edu.

Remembering the legendary Joe Lyles

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

the Harlem Globetrotters.

 

To play a professional sport, coach
at the college level, or to serve in the
Army would make a great career for
any individual. Joe Lyles did them all.
Washington and Lee lost a cherished
member of its family when on Nov. 13
Joe Lyles passed away at the age of 83,
leaving behind multiple lifetimes’ worth
of achievements.

Lyles was born on October 28, 1929 in
St. Louis, and began to build his legacy
by becoming a member of St. Mary High
School’s Hall of Fame, playing multiple
sports. He went on to receive Bachelors
and Masters degrees in physical educa-
tion at Springﬁeld College.

His studies, however, were put on
hold, for good reason. From 1949-1954,
Lyles played professional baseball with
the St. Louis Browns organization as an
outﬁelder and pitcher. He also split the
years of 1949-1953 playing professional
basketball with the St. Louis Bombers as
a guard and forward. In the midst of his
professional sports career, Lyle served
for the Army in 1952. It was also dur-
ing this year Lyle traveled the globe as
a member of the United States All-Stars,
visiting 44 different countries to_ take on

I}’£'[/It’ ['7

After playing multiple professional
sports and completing his education,
Lyles began his career at W&L. His
coaching career was not only long, but
varied: Lyles head-coached baseball
from 1959-1978, soccer from 1959-
1976, and assistant-coached basketball
from 1959-1969. He achieved a 108-
229-3 record in baseball and a 100-85-
17 record in soccer during his tenure. He
was a two-time W&L Coach of the Year,
once for baseball in 1972 and once for
soccer in 1974.

Lyles’ inﬂuence spread far beyond the
conﬁnes of the W&L campus. He ful-
ﬁlled the position of chair for the Penn
and South Region Conference, the Old
Dominion Athletic Conferences’s prede-
cessor. He also served on various com-
mittees for‘NCAA baseball, including
national chair for Division III baseball
and as a member for the National Base-
ball Rules committee.

More telling of Lyles’ altruistic person-
ality was his participation in programs
through which he could serve others.
During off-seasons he served as a con-
sultant and recreation specialist for the

U.S. Office of Economic Opportunity.
He trained staff members of the Spring-
ﬁeld College Job Corps and Volunteers
in Service to America (VISTA). Lyles’
also devoted his summers to directing
summer camps in Virginia and New
Hampshire.

While Lyles will be remembered for-
ever as one of W&L’s great athletic
leaders, he was equally beloved for his
sense of humor. Lyles often displayed
his wit through his famous “Lylesisms.”
Whether he was taking inventory on his
teams,”1 want the left-handers over here,
right-handers over there, and the rest of
you come with me,” or bestowing valu-
able knowledge upon his players, “This
year, all our home games are going to be
here,” Lyles’ always prevalent and some-
times dizzying style of comedy garnered
the love of everyone in his presence.

On Nov. 18, Joe Lyles was buried down
the street from W&L in Stonewall Jack-
son Cemetery. The memory of W&L’s
most legendary coach and the Generals’
biggest fan will forever prevail on cam-
pus.

While the San Francisco 49ers are the popular
pick to win the Super Bowl — with their exciting
young quarterback Colin Kaepemick, a massive
offensive line, and stingy defense — I believe the
Ravens will pull out an upset. The 49ers are cer-
tainly a strong team, but the Ravens present some
challenges that the Niners will not be able to over-
come.

In the recent past, the Super Bowl winners were
teams that got hot at the right time. Teams like the
Packers and Giants did not have great regular sea-
son records, but they were able to perform well in
the playoffs. While the Ravens are not a wildcard
team, they match this trend more closely than the
49ers. Momentum is key in the playoffs, and the
Ravens have rallied around Ray Lewis, who an-
nounced this would be his last season. Many felt
that Ray Lewis’ announcement would not affect
the team ’s performance, but it has proven to be just
the spark they needed.

Ray Lewis headlines a strong. seasoned and
savvy defense. This group has been together for
many years, and they have been exposed to all
types of offenses. No matter what, they always
ﬁnd ways to execute their defensive gameplan at
the highest level. I expect this game to be no dif-
ferent. Colin Kaepemick has a unique skill set, and
the threat of the Niners’ read-offense has caused
problems for other teams. However, I believe that
the Ravens will expose this offense, proving it
more ofa gimmick than a threat.

Jim Haurbaugh has been given a lot of credit
for making a tough midseason switch ~ promot-
ing Kaepemick to starting quarterback ahead of
Alex Smith. However, John Harbaugh also made
a difﬁcult, less celebrated decision. John decided
to ﬁre Cam Cameron as offensive coordinator and
hand the reigns over to quarterbacks coach .lim
Caldwell, former head coach of the Indianapolis
Colts. This move has paid dividends, as the of-
fense has exploded. averaging over 400 yards per
game in the playoffs with a revitalized Joe Flacco

performing well because of increased freedom.
Caldwell will surely have a strong gameplan for
the Super Bowl that will overwhelm a terriﬁc Nin-
ers defense.

The Ravens have demonstrated their ability to
beat top teams like the Broncos and Patriots in
the playoffs, and the primary reason has been Joe
Flacco. Joe F lacco has always been a good,"but not
great quarterback.
He almost led
the Ravens to the
Super Bowl last
year. and this year
he was able to get
over the hump.
During this play-
off run Flacco has
posted some in-
credible numbers.
In the postseason,
Flacco has tossed
8 touchdowns to
only 1 intercep-
tion. and has an
average passer
rating of 114.7.
In several games,
Flacco has proven
he isable to put
the team on his
back, especially
when Ray Rice
struggles. Flacco
has a chance to
leap to elite status q ~
as a quarterback with a victory on Sunday. We can
expect strong performances ﬁ'om both the Raven’s
defense and Ray Rice, but if the Ravens win the
Super Bowl. it will be because ofa great game by
Joe Flacco, and I expect him to win Super Bowl
MVP.

After 18 games 017/ regular and postseason
play, two teams ave come out alive. The
San Francisco 49ers and the Baltimore
Ravens will face of in Super Bowl XLVII.
Kyle and Hailey line up on op osite sides of
the ball on who they thin will win.

_ The Baltimore Ravens vs. San Francisco 49ers
match-up is everything the NFL could have asked
for in a Super Bowl. The headlines outnumber the
writers to create them. There’s the future retiree
who has become a symbol of the town he repre-
sents with his pregame dance and passion for the
game. There’s the team that _chose to switch start-
ing quarterbacks halfway through the season under

' much contro-
versy. And of
course there's
the fact that the
head coaches
are brothers,

, leading many
to‘ rename next
week’s game
the "Harbowl"
(the same name
was used dur-
ing their regular
season match-
up last year).
My per-
sonal opinion
is clouded by
the fact that I
choose the 49ers
at the beginning
of the season to
win the Super-
bowl (I admit.

I worried when

Kaepemick was

named start-
ing quarterback) and had a terrible experience at
a Ravens game when l was in middle school and
heckled by a grown man for wearing the oppos-
ing teams jersey. But personal opinions aside, I
believe the Jim Harbaugh and the 49ers are going
to pull this one out.

During the regular season, the 49ers were one

, \\\‘\.‘\.‘\ \\\\‘\‘\_‘:.‘\

of the best all around teams in the league. They
made some terrible mistakes sure, but they seemed
to rally and overcome them with ease. The team
has taken to Kaepemick and he has become a suc-
cess story that no one saw coming. But it‘s not
their new style of offense that has me convinced.
it's their defense. I am of the personal bcliefthat
defenses win championships, and their defense is
one of the top five in the league. And hey. if they
can‘t stop .loe Flacco, they really don‘t deserve
to win. The onceidominant Ravens defense isn’t
what it used to be, and they won’t be able to keep
up with the Kaepemick led offe sc. If the 49ers
are able to establish a passing game early the Ra-
vens won‘t have a chance. Nonetheless, I think
it will be a close game. Lets just hope it doesn't
come down to ﬁeld goals, which would be bad for
both teams.

  

 

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 28, 2013

sports

 

n the numbers
1 8

Lionel Messi became just the eighth player in La Liga his-
tory to score 200 goals. At the age of 25 he is the youngest

player to do so.

3

The number of years in a row that tennis’ Novak Djokovic
has won the Austrailian Open after defeating Andy Murray in

four sets on Sunday. It was his fourth overall title.

0424

The amount of time between the United States and Ger-
many’s combined times at the Bobsled and Skeleton World
Championships. Lolo Jones and teammates took home the

gold to defend their title.
26%!
The total number of days between victories for the Wash-
ington Capitals before they defeated the Buffalo Sabres

on Sunday. It is also the same number of days since Alex

Ovechkin scored a goal. The Capitals won 3-2.

 

.soapbox

"Most of the [NFL players] are well-
compensated for the violence they do to

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

On Saturday, Jan. 19,, the Washington
and Lee men’s basketball team won its third
straight game and ended 22nd-ranked Guil-
ford’s nine-game winning streak.

Sophomore guard Javon McDonald scored
seven three-pointers (7-of-9) to lead W&L
with 21 points. The seven triples tied a Gener-
als record for three-pointers made in a game
(done six times), with Mike Stuart ’05 who
most recently reached the record in 2004 in a
game at Lynchburg.

The Generals never trailed in the game,
and led for the ﬁnal 15:13 ofthe second half.
Guilford (14-3, 6-2, ODAC) cut W&L’s lead
to two points, 57-55, with 2:32 remaining in
the contest on a layup. After a turnover by the

 

Sophomore Javon McDonald
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

  

  

Gennies, the Quakers missed a jumper that
would have tied the game.

Junior guard Kevin Gill hit a three from
the top of the key to increase the advantage
to 60-55 with 52 seconds left. Guilford re-
sponded with a layup, and GC.immediately
fouled to send Gill to the line for a l-and-1.
He missed the ﬁrst, but the ball got back to
W&L when GC sailed a pass out ofbounds.

First-year forward Andrew Franz sealed
the game, nailing two shots from the charity
stripe creating a ﬁve point lead (62-57). Guil-
ford’s junior guard Jarren Hinton split ‘a pair
of free throws with .3 seconds left to reach the
ﬁnal score of 62-58.

The Gennies led 36-33 at the half, after

  
 

1.

l 

.v .. if.

t 

 

92:-
't.,. .,
‘:3 r«_;‘v-tr‘

 

Gennies upset No. 22 Guilford

making 8-of-17 three-pointers in the opening
20 minutes. W&L led by as many as 11, 26-
15, at the 8:24 mark, but GC ﬁnished the half
on a 21-7 run to get back into the game.

McDonald hit six of his seven three-point-
ers in the ﬁrst half and also ﬁnished the game
with three rebounds, two assists, and one
steal. Franz drained 10 points, while grabbing
ﬁve boards and dishing out three assists. Se-
nior forward J.D. Ey barely missed a double-
double with nine points and 12 rebounds. He
additionally added three blocks, two steals
and two assists.

GC ended the game at 39.3 percent from
the ﬁeld, and connected on only 7-of-21
threes. They also turned over the ball 1-1 times.

   

  

their bodies... You read some of these
stories about college players who undergo“
some of these same problems with
concussions and so forth and then have
nothing to fall back on. That's something
that I'd like to see the NCAA think about.

-PreslderitBarackObama In an lntiervlewwlui1heNew’
Republlc.1'helmiervlewwlll appearlnuieFeb. 1.1.lssue.

 

 

Clancy new

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

Coach Christine Clancy is in her ﬁrst year
as Washington and Lee women’s basketball
head coach, and she brings more than just a
knowledge for the game to the table. Having

‘coached and received an education from some

ofthe top schools in the country, it seems that
Coach Clancy represents W&L athletics ap-
propriately: with a combination of athleticism
and intellect.

Coach Clancy spent her college years at
Brandeis University, playing bothbasketball
and tennis. Coach Clancy won ‘the Coaches
Award in both sports, and in her senior year
led her basketball team as team captain.
Coach Clancy received a Bachelor of Arts
degree in economics, and showcased her bal-
ance of athleticism and intellect by becoming
a three-time member of the University Ath-
letic Association All-Academic Team.

From 2006 to 2008, Coach Clancy was
the assistant coach for women’s basketball
at Smith College. While coaching at Smith,
Coach Clancy furthered her education by
earning a Master of Science degree in sports
and exercise studies. She also spent her tenure
at Smith as an athletic administrative intern.

 

Coach Christine Clancy
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

In the following three years, Coach Clancy
led the women’s basketball squad at Colby

to job, not to basketball

College, spending her ﬁrst two years as an as-
sistant before receiving interim head coach-
ing duties in the 2010-2011 season. In her
second season of assistant coaching, Coach
Clancy helped lead-her team to a school re-
cord 24 wins and its ﬁrst NCAA Tournament
berth in program history. In her ﬁrst year as
head coach, Coach Clancy’s team followed
up in similarfashion with a 22-6 record and
another NCAA Tournament berth.

Coach Clancy’s athletic and academic in-
ﬁuence was evident in her ﬁrst year as she
helped coach Becca Bolton to the ODAC
scholar—athlete award. In her second year at
W&L and ﬁrst year as head coach, Coach
Clancy has also been named an assistant pro-
fessor of physical education.

Having played, studied and coached at
places like Smith, Brandeis, Colby, and
W&L, Coach Clancy represents the Univer-
sity well, striking a balance between smarts
and athletic ability. Her Generals are current.-
ly 7-10 and travel to Bridgewater on Thurs-
day to face the Eagles.

      

So homore Jillian Katterhagen
of he Woodlands,_Texas, broke
the school record in the indoor
ole_ vault_this_ weekend at the
enison Lid Lifter Invitational.
She vaulted 3.36 meters to
take first place.

ondeok

_ Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

Men’s Basketball

W&L outswims neighboring VMI

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s and wom-
en’s swim teams won their meets this week-
end across the street at Virginia Military In-
stitute. The men’s team defeated VMI, their
only competitor, while the women’s team took 1
home wins against both VMI and Ferrum.

The men’s team won 11 events, and the
women tallied nine. Top performers included
Rick Sykes and Stephanie Foster with three
event wins each. Other winners include Bren-
nan Haley in the 200-yard backstroke and

at Bridgewater 7 pm

Wesley Sigmon in the 2000-yard breaststroke.
The 200-yard medley relay team made up by
Stephanie Foster, Sarah Schaffer, Caroline
Hamp and Izzy Brassﬁeld also won. Kelly
Mae Ross and Billy Fries took ﬁrst in the
women’s and men’s 1000-yard freestyle re-
spectively.

The next meet for both teams will be their
respective conference championship meets.
The women’s team will travel to Greensboro,
NC for the Old Dominion Conference Cham-

a

pionships on Feb. 8 for three days of competi-
tion. They will look to defend their title that
they have had for ﬁve years running.

Then on Feb. 13th the men’s team heads to
Charlotte, NC for the Bluegrass Mountain
Championships when they will take on teams
like Johns Hopkins, Wingate and Randolph-
Macon.

at Hampton-Sydney
2 pm

Women’s Basketball

at Bridgewater 7 pm

vs Virginia Wesleyan
4 pm '

 

