 

 

3 onwtcrittas T

iSPORTS/ page 8

I!

t-iomesmcthome?

Looking forward to your warm bed
and food-laden kitchen table? New
Englanders may be in for a bit of a shock.

A&L / page 6

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY       

° THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12,2012

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE ST-U

DENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXV||,NUMBER9

Hillel, Chick-fil-A and 4 more years

By Randy Karlson
STAFF warren

[iv

 

Last Tuesday America spok
told us that they want four more years of

Barack Obama. Obama won the popular

election by just over three million votes
and won the Electoral College by a mar-
gin of 126 votes.

The domination ofthe Electoral Col-
lege by President Obama is due to his
virtual sweep ofthe swing states, which
included Virginia, Florida, New Hamp-
shire, Wisconsin, lowa, Ohio, Nevada
and Colorado. Obama won every single
one of these states, but none were won
very convincingly with Governor Rom-
ney putting up very good ﬁghts.

In Virginia, which usually votes red,
Obama pulled out a victory. The Con-
gressional seat was won by Democrat
Tim Kaine, who beat out Republican in-
cumbent George Allen. Washington and
Lee’s very own, Republican Bob Good-
latte (L ’77), won Virginia’s Sixth Dis-
trict convincingly by a margin of 32%
of the vote.

When asked about Obama’s victory
on Tuesday, Todd Smith-Schoenwalder
(College Democrats’ President) and Lex
Luther (College Republicans’ President)
had very different reactions about the
win.

e, and

‘NM

Smith-Schoenwalder had believed
that “an Obama victory was very likely.”
Luther said he “was surprised and
disappointed” and he “didn’t think Pres-
ident Obama was going to be able to es-
sentially sweep the swing states.”

Luther also believed that this election
has to be awake-up call for the national
Republican Party leaders in Washington,
D.C.

“I think with back-to-back defeats
this has to be a wake-up call for the par-
ty,” said Luther. “The leaders in Wash-
ington have to realize that voters want
solutions, notjust ideology.”

Smith-Schoenwalder did not have
anything to say about the state of the
Democratic party, but he was extremely
proud ofhis group on campus.

“Every weekend, College Democrats
had been canvassing all over Rockbridge
County,” said Smith-Schoenwalder.
“Everyone was excited that our efforts
made a difference.”

Despite all of the differences that the
two parties and the two groups have,
the College Republicans and the Col-
lege Democrats put on a very successful
Election Night Viewing party at Hillel
House on Tuesday night.

  
   
   

      

  :-

houghout the night the two grups
were selling Chick-ﬁl-A sandwiches and

 W’ .‘

Students met in the Hillel House for an Elc

chicken nuggets in order to fundraise for
future events.

“The W&L College Republicans
were much more successful than the
national party,” said Luther. “Selling
Chick-ﬁl-A was a great fundraiser for
the club and we are looking forward to

ations kept absolutely civil, making the
event enjoyable for all who attended.”

J ack Clarke, a ﬁrst-year and ﬁrst time
voter, said he identiﬁes with the Repub-
lican party and was quite worried about
the election in the early part ofthe night.

First-year Matt Kinderman said

“Every weekend, College Democrats had been can-

vassing all over Rockbridge County, ” said Smith-

Schoenwalder. “Everyone was excited that our

eﬂorts made a diﬂerence. ”

Todd Smith-Schoenwalder, College Democrats’ President

the next term.”

Smith-Schoenwalder had a similar
reaction when asked about the turnout
on the night.

“We had a great turnout at the Elec-
tion Night party, co-hosted by College
Democrats and College Republicans.”
said Smith-Schoenwalder. “More impor-
tantly, students from all political afﬁli-

    

Wtc

 

e.
tion

h Party on the night of the elenction.

he identiﬁed with the Democrats and
was not surprised by the results of the
election. He was quite conﬁdent in the
Democrats’ strategy for the Electoral
College.

   

RANDY KARLSON/ Staff Writer

Fightin

By Hamlet Fort

STAFF warren _
Fraternity men at Washington and

Lee can expect changes to New Member
Education beginning in January.

The lnter-Fraternity Council (IFC),
Student Affairs Committee (SAC), and
Campus—Community Coalition have
worked simultaneously to alter New
Member Education, or as it is colloqui-
ally known, pledgeship, in a way that is
more conducive to the New Members, or
pledges. ,

Starting this year, new fraternity ini-
tiates will see changes to contact hours
from fraternities and the minimum Grade
Point Average required tojoin.

The SAC, led by Dean of Students
Sidney Evans, formed a report on the
state of New Member Education at
W&L, and commissioned the IFC in an
effort to make amends. Among the rec-
ommendations presented was a proposal
to shorten New Member Education from
its normal eight weeks to six weeks. The
SAC’s main objective, according to IFC

President Danny Murray, is to “change

the culture of New Member Education
that would legitimize the purpose, which
is to instill a sense of brotherhood.”
Murray says the administration’s
main concern for pledges is a diminished
quality of life, including lower GPAs, a
less regular sleep pattern and forced ac-
tion in certain situations. Most fraternity
presidents disagree with the proposal to
shorten New Member Education, accord-
ing to El Wislar, President of Sigma Chi.
“Less time would simply mean
heightened intensity and very little

would change except making those 6,

weeks worse,” says Wislar.
However, Wislar admits some as-

for pledgeship

pects ofNew Member Education should
change. “As ofnow, a step must be taken
by the fraternities in order to show that
we are willing to work with the adminis-
tration,” Wislar says.

The lFC countered the SAC’s report
with a report of their own, a list of pro-
posed amendments to pledgeship that

happen, though not so drastic as cutting
pledgeship to six weeks.

“We want to increase the student
quality of life and have a better structure
that allows for less manipulation of the
system,” said Murray.

. The IFC and the New Member Edu-
cation Task Force has ideas for doing so,

“Less time [for New Member Education] would

simply mean heightened intensity and very little

would change except making those six weeks

J

worse. ’
EJ Wislar, Sigma Chi President

would keep the eight-week length intact,
including the changes to contact hours
and minimum GPA. Previously, the
hours in which New Members would be
“on-duty” were from 7:00 a.m. to mid-
night. These hours have been changed
from 9:00 a.m. to midnight.

New Members also must now have a
minimum 2.3 GPA in order to join afra-
temity, instead of the previous 2.0. This
change comes in an effort to realign New
Members’ priorities from pledgeship to
academics, a major concern for the SAC.

Additionally, a New Member Educa-
tion Task Force has been created to fur-
ther investigate potential changes. Wislar
says one alternative being considered
is removing one day a week from New
Member Education altogether, essen-
tially shortening it to seven weeks, while
maintaining the eight-week time frame.

Murray agrees that changes need to

says Murray, including “mandating that
pledge educators have more control.”
Murray and Wislar are conﬁdent that
all parties involved can get what they
want. “The IFC has worked hard to
maintain the Greek values which have
made this University great and will con-
tinue to do so,” says Wislar. “In my opin-
ion, a happy medium can be reached that
will not jeopardize the fraternal tradition

_ but will appease those administrators and

faculty who have complaints.”

As of now, only the changes to con-
tact hours and minimum GPA will be in
effect this January. These minor changes,
and potentially others, will undergo a
one-year trial period to judge their ef-
fects. The issue will be revisited next
fall by the SAC and the IFC, and more
changes could come then.

Easing the

By Douglas McNie|
STAFF w R ITER

Although Parents Weekend is usu-
ally held late in the fall semester, it will
be moved to an earlier date next year.

Assistant Dean of Student Affairs
Sydney Evans said that there are mul-
tiple reasons for the switch. She cites
the main reason as the administration
believing that it would be more beneﬁ-
cial to first-years if their parents visited
earlier on in the fall semester.

If parents visit earlier in the semes-
ter, then there is a better chance that
they can contact and/or alert the deans
ofany initial problems their child might
face in the transition to college, accord-
ing to Evans.

While ﬁrst-year parents are by no
means the only parents who visit dur-
ing Parents Weekend, the majority of
the programming is aimed toward them.

Currently, only two weeks separate
Parents Weekend and Thanksgiving. By
the time the break rolls around, many
students have already seen their parents
recently.

The administration believes that
it makes more sense to widen the gap
between parental interactions so the

adjustment: parents
to come back earlier

initial gap of starting school and see-
ing parents at Parents Weekend will be
shortened. The administration expects
that this will help the ﬁrst-years have a
better transition to college living.
Besides the main issue, another
reason for the switch is the increased
chance of inclement weather. While the
possibility of poor weather was not the
main factor, Evans cited the icy weath-

‘Parents Weekend Schedule:
2o13: Oclzober 4-e

2o14: october 3-5
2015: october 9-11

 

er, which occurred in the 2011 Parents
Weekend.

The team that was charged to over-
see the change faced many challenges,
including scheduling the new dates
around all the other events that oc-

. cupy the fall University calendar. They

wanted to ﬁnd a weekend with a home
football game, while not interrupting
important events such as Homecoming
and the Board of Trustees meeting.

The earlier Parents Weekend is al-
ready on the calendar for the next three
years. In 2013 it will occur on Oct. 4-6,
in 2014 it will occur on Oct. 3-5, and in
2015 it will occur on Oct. 9-11.

 

 

IINIVERSITY LIBRARY
V‘/A‘3i‘i.lx'~if§T0l%I 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450‘

NOV I Hill?

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 12,2012

 

Celebrating uss

By Krysta Huber
s TA F F w R | T E R
The Celebrating Student Success
Initiative selects two students to be rec-
ognized for their accomplishments and
contributions to Washington and Lee as
Generals of the Month, every month.
This month’s recipients, awarded at a
reception in the Marketplace on Nov.
1, were seniorsiAli Hamed and Jennifer

 

Ritter, according to wlu.edu.

“The Celebrating Student Success
Initiative is purely an effort at praise,”
said Assistant Dean for First-Year Ex-
perience Mr. Jason Rodocker. "It‘s

ia Tech Research Symposium. Hamed
has also been a teaching assistant to
physics students, according to wlu.edu.

Ritter is an Appalachian Adventure
Leading Edge Trip Leader and co-
president and student choreographer of
the W&L Repertory Dance Company.
She is also the personnel chair of Chi

Omega sorority and the co-president of
Catholic Campus Ministry, according
to wlu.edu.

In addition, both Ritter and Hamed
are members of several different honor

  

the Physics Honors Society, works for
Traveller, is in his third year as an RA
and has been a member of the varsity
basketball team for three years.

“The award was a great pat on the
back,” Gilﬁllan said. “When you’re so
involved in multiple projects, it’s good
to know your work has not gone unno-
ticed.”

Deutsch is also the Assistant Gener-
al Manager and Music Director of9l.5
WLUR FM, Co-Chair of First Book,
Vice President of Philanthropy of Pi
Beta Phi sorority and Programming
Chair of SPEAK.

“Winning the CSS award was such
a humbling and exciting experience,”
said Deutsch. “I never really took into
account how much work I did on and
off campus prior to the CSS nomina-
tion, so having my work recognized
was such a wonderful surprise.”

After an informal ﬁve-minute cer-
emony in the Marketplace, two posters
of the Generals of the Month, created
by Director of Publications Ms. Mary
Woodson, are hung in the Marketplace.
The ceremonies are always held on
Thursdays, between ll:30 a.m. and
12:30 p.m.

“We intentionally put the ceremony
on the same day as a special dinner so
that the posters get the widest recog-
nition,” said Rodocker. “On a typical
day, 500 people may come through. On

“Winning the CSS award was such ‘a humbling and exciting experience, ” said

Deutsch. “I never really took into account how much work I did on and oﬂcampus

prior to the CSS nomination, so having my work recognized was such a wonderful

surprise. ”

Joni Deutch ’14

an effort to draw attention to positive
things that occur within student life.
So often people focus on some of the
negatives and that’s what all the con-
versation revolves around.”

According to Rodocker, the CSS
committee is composed of students,
faculty and staff. The committee looks
to award students who add significant
depth to the W&L community, but
aren’t being recognized for their ef-
forts.

The CSS initiative is typically
spread by word-of—mouth: if a friend
is named General of the Month, stu-
dents will usually nominate other peers
that they believe are deserving of the
award. Rodocker hopes that more
members of the W&L community will
participate in the nomination process in
the future. Students can be nominated
at go.wlu.edu/css.

“We’re looking for the person that
is running an organization and doing
it in a really good way, or they’re in-
volved in Habitat for Humanity, but no
one other than those in Habitat know
that,” said Rodocker. “A lot of titnes
it’s notjust one thing, but an accumula-
tion of things — the student is a good
friend to their peers; they’re someone
who is trustworthy and dependable.”

The November Generals of the
Month were recognized for a variety
of activities that they are involved in
across campus. Hamed, who is a dou-
ble major in physics-engineering and
economics, participated in extensive
research studies over the last two sum-
mers, which led to his involvement in
presentations at the American Physical
Society Meeting and the W&L-Virgin-

University-Shenandoah _
opened its season, called;
World,” witha concert con
Europe and Russia.’’. ,.' ~

Conductor of the USS
fomiance of Shostako

societies on campus and have been
awarded a number of scholarships

 

a special dinner, they might have V1000
people.”

Ali Hamad and Jennifer Ritter (above) were Generals of the

Month for November.

throughout their four years at W&L,
according to wlu.edu.

Along with Ritter and Hamed, se-
niors Taylor Gilﬁllan, Alexandra Fer-
nandez, Ronald Magee and Rachel
Pityk, and junior Joni Deutsch have
received the Generals of the Month
award this school year. Both ‘Gilﬁl-
lan and Deutsch were recognized for
their involvement in Orientation Week:
Gilﬁllan served as First Year Orienta-
tion Committee Chair this year and
Sodalis chair in his junior year, while
Deutsch acted as the General Co-Chair
of FYOC this year.

Gilﬁllan is also chapter president of

PHOTO COURTESY OF KEVIN REMINGTON

Rodocker also added that a simi-
lar poster is sent to the students’ high
schools, letting them know that their
graduate has been recognized at W&L.

“It’s doubly beneﬁcial because it is
recognition for the students back home
and is also nice PR for us as a univer-
sity,” Rodocker said.

“I can say that spending time with
the students who are receiving this rec-
ognition is the best reminder I have of
why I do what I do,” Rodocker said.
“It’s exactly why people want to come
to this college, be involved with this
college and work with this college.”

I

,”_;' Tchaikovsky’s “Variations on a Rococo Theme,
op. :33," featuring Julia Goudimova, cellist; and Gold-
fnark’s “Rustic Wedding Symphony.”

, ..On Feb. 2, the USSO will perform its next concert,
titled “Music of Western Europe.” On March 30, it will
 ‘esent “Music of the Americas.” ' ’

eported by Graham_Colton, Head Copy‘Editor

 

i

   

3»
.6’

STAFF WRITER

Earthquake in Guatemala

Guatemala was hit by its biggest earthquake in over thirty years on Wednes-
day. It measured a 7.4 magnitude and left multiple areas of the country in sham-
bles. Landslides that ensued after the quake are making rescue attempts diﬂi-
cult. At least 52 are dead, many missing and countless trapped. Approximately
73,000 people are still without electricity.

China prepares for space mission

China is preparing for its next space mission, officials say. A manned space-
craft, the Shenzhou-I0, is set to launch in June of 2013 carrying two men and
one woman. They will be working on the country’s first experimental space sta-
tion, Tiangong-l, for 15 days.

Suicide bombing in Afghanistan

People across Afghanistan were killed on Thursday by various blasts. A sui-
cide bomber in Kandahar killed at least three policemen and wounded other
citizens. Five soldiers died in a landmine explosion in the eastern region ofthe
country. In addition, a roadside bomb went off in Helmand killing at least ten
people.

Violence continues in Myanmar

Violence continues between Buddhists and Muslims in western Myanmar.
Nobel laureate, Aung San Suu Kyi, encouraged the government to send more
troops to the region in an effort to restore peace. She claimed that more forces
are needed ifthe killings are going to be stopped. The government needs to ac-
cept this responsibility for human rights, she said.

Iran puts ban on “luxury goods”

The government of Iran on Wednesday placed a ban on what it deems “luxu-
ry goods.” This group includes foreign-made cars, laptops, watches, coffee and
more. The list ofitems totaled 75, many ofwhich are basic everyday goods. The
purpose ofthis ban is to save billions of dollars by eliminating many of the na-
tion’s imports. Citizens are now left with no choice but to purchase these items
on the local markets.

Greek citizens demonstrate outside
Parliament on austerity vote

Eartlier last week, nearly 70,000 Greek citizens demonstrated outside Parlia-
ment as austerity measures for the 2013 budget were put to a vote. In order to
repay a 5 billion euro treasury bill on November 16 the Greek government needs
a bailout loan. However, the last austerity measures passed were not sufﬁcient to
receive the loan. Without the economy could easily default this week.

BBC head steps down in the wake of
scandals

The new head of BBC, George Entwistle, stepped down this week after just
two months. He said it was the “honorable thing” to do in the wake of two scan-
dals regarding poor reporting about the alleged sexual misconduct of a former
BBC employee and a former senior politician.

V 1'
.  ‘By HannahyHoward

am, *4. at LEE Ill

“Hands Down the In Host Truckstop In America“
- The Travel channel, Most Extreme Truekstopa

Home Cooked Meals & Sonrkmr Ho.tplral1r_r!

Orderfmm our complete menu
(Jr Jain urfar our ofaur A (J, }'0u[-' (bl.-I-' EA 1‘ .li‘uﬂ"t:.r.'

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday — Friday 6 am — 10:30 am
Saturday 5 5und‘a1,r6 am -1:30 pm

Daily Hui Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am . 10 pm
Soup, Salad. 8. Fruit Barltllweel-:10:3O am - it pm
Friday Mghl Sealoo-:1 Buffet 5 pm - ‘I0 pm
Saturday Night Pod: B80 Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicitenﬁ Port-:LoInt1am-9pm
Fridays. Saturday Late Night Breaklast Buffet 11 pm — 2am

Order Breakfast 24 Heu rs a day, ? days a week!

I-31 8. I-54. Exit 195. 2516 N. Lee Hwy.. Lexington. VA 24450
540-463-3478
www.laahi.com See ourmami amine

 Twitter Qberltysfoud  Find us on Face book

MONDAY,

NOVEMBER 12, 2012

3 ° THE'RlNG-TUM PHI 0

opinions

O

ByJP Beall
OPINIONS EDITOR

When you think of Washington and
Lee and how it came to be, what comes
to mind? Do you think of George Wash-
ington, and how his gift of canal stock
served to keep the young Liberty Hall
going? Do you think about the Lee Pres-
idency, which institutionalized much of
our W&L culture? .

Lee gave this campus many impor-
tant traits that we might be hard pressed
to recognize W&L today without them.
Lee cemented the newly forming Honor

No leeway

System and gave us that “one rule here.”
From this culture of civility, Lee gave
us what we now call the Speaking Tra-
dition. Though sometimes it seems that
there are some people who would have
the Speaking Tradition fall silent.

I think most people here have had
at least one encounter by now with that
one person walking down the brick path-
way—wearing the “I Whale Bob and
George” shi1t—who knows people are
coming, and rather than give a quick
nod, holds out that cell phone for ev-
eryone to see, perhaps fakes a text, and
looks the other way.

First off, we all text and talk while we
walk—l am notorious for it—and some-
times we miss people who smile, nod, or
say “hi.” It’s an honest mistake~maybe
you show that you heard them—and
they understand. I hardly think General
Lee meant for people to drop everything
when pre-occupied and shake every-
one’s hand when between classes.

But he did mean for people to act
honestly and with respect towards other

people in their community.

Let’s face it, if we all talk and text
while we are on the move, we can tell
who is taking rather than acknowledge
that the rules of civility apply to every-
one.

‘'We éaae ﬂat ewe rude 

For one thing, the fakes are trying
way too hard to look like they’re texting
or talking. The pained look of effort is
smudged all over their face like coal-
dust as they struggle to come up with a
line to whisper into their phone or tap
furiously into the keys.

Of course, there’s nothing better than
watching that one person use the old
singing trick, and mouth “watermelon-
watermelon,” and try to look interested
when Silence, equally interested, an-

swers them.

Isn’t it easier at this point to just
make eye contact, or nod, or smile? All
these other tactics, in addition to being
more work, and more transparent, are
ﬂat-out dishonorable, and no amount of

~2a5e¢t 5. .4’ee

W&L tridents or Bob & George pattern
can ﬁx that.

I’m deﬁnitely not saying that people
should be liable for dismissal for snub-
bing someone on the sidewalk. If noth-
ing else, the EC would never leave their
chambers. But the Speaking Tradition
used to be enforced.

Not too long ago, there was a cam-
pus organization called the Assimilation
Committee. It was a group appointed
by and answerable to the EC, and was

on Speaking Tradition

charged with enforcing different things
of cultural importance to W&L, like
wearing blue blazers at Lee Chapel, the
Speaking Tradition and other things.
Students who did not were ticketed.
Never mind the occasions where stu-
dents were just ﬂat out caned by snubbed
upperclassmen.

While an institution like the Assimi-
lation Committee could be a construc-
tive institution here on campus, we are
fortunate to be charged with self-en-
forcement ofthese things. After all, isn’t
that what General Lee wanted us to do,
was to hold ourselves accountable?

Yes, that gives us wiggle room to put
up idiotic pantomime charades with our
cell phones as props, but then you know
what you’re doing and so does everyone
else. But at least you didn’t have to be
bothered for a split-second to return a
friendly gesture.

STAFF WRITER

To: Donald Trump

By Yates Wilburn
Subject: Your Future in American

 Politics

’.

Just so you know where I’m com-
ing from Mr. Trump, I am a Republican.
Now, I’d like to ask you--with nothing
but genuine politeness--to take a few
deep breaths, count to ten, and cease
communication with society at large.

Why, you ask? Well, when you take to
Twitter questioning President Obama’s
citizenship--an issue (if it ever really was
one) settled long ago--declare the death
of democracy when a president wins
electorally but not popularly (which he
didn’t), claim that 2 million votes were
forged, or encourage your fellow Ameri-
cans to take up arms against their legiti-
mately elected government, it presents
several problems. First, less intelligent
people in our own party may take you
seriously, which could be very bad for
their careers, legal situations, and sanity.
Second, less intelligent people OUT-
SIDE our party may take you seriously,
and assume we are all reactionary, in-
ﬂammatory children desperate for atten-
tion. Seeing as we now live in a political
and economic situation that requires the
most respectful and delicate nature of
negotiation and compromise, neither of
these is helpful.

Now, don’t get me wrong, there is

nothing wrong with criticizing, question-
ing, and improving one’s government;
that’s the American way. Furthermore, I
agree that our country is certainly in dire
straights that I felt would be better navi-
gated by Mitt Romney. However, simply
throwing a toddler’s temper-tantrum on
the intemet in the hopes of validating
one’s existence in a desperate bid to stay
relevant is not constructive. For God’s
sake, we have reality TV for a reason.

So, please Mr. Trump, stop talk-
ing politics and head back to where we
like you: reality TV. We lost, President
Obama won, time to adjust to a new real-
ity. I suggest you leave the big decisions
America is facing to the adults--meaning
people with maturity of an l8 year old or
higher. Don’t take it personally, I think
the same of all spoiled children I meet.

In essence Mr. Trump, “you’re ﬁred.”

Sincerely,

Yates Wilburn

P.S. This obviously disregards the fact
that I can’t seem to recall you making a
super big case when President Bush AC-
TUALLY lost the popular vote in 2000
OR that you have donated mountains of
cash to Democrats in the past only to re-
cently ﬁnd your tried and true conserva-
tive feelings in the past year.

the apprentice: done in one

Election leaves America in the weeds

By Julianna Satterly
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Cannabis.
Weed, pot, reefer, grass, ganja, moon-

K. ﬂower, dope, hash, marijuana. Whatever

you call it, Cannabis sativa has made
quite an impact in the world. Chances
are, you’ve smelled it, seen it or smoked
it in your life. But how much do you re-
ally know about the number one illegally
used drug in America? Since legalizing
the stuff has become a front-running
topic of late, I thought I would ﬁll you in
on all things pot. And it is quite possible
that at some point we will be voting here
on the same sensitive bill that just passed
in Colorado and Washington.

A brief history lesson

Indigenous to Central and South
Asia, evidence of psychoactive cannabis
use has been dated as far back as 2,000
years. The ancient Assyrians ﬁrst used
it in religious ceremonies, and the mod-
em name ‘cannabis’ probably comes
from the Assyrian word ‘qunubu’ mean-
ing ‘way to produce smoke.’ Traces of
marijuana have been found all over the
world from the writings of Herodotus
to Shakespeare’s home in England. Pos-
session of the plant was not made illegal
globally until the 20th century, with the
United States leading the crusade. Now
almost every country has outlawed the
possession of any amount of weed.

This is your brain on pot

The active ingredient in Cannabis
sativa is THC, or Tetrahydrocannabinol.
It affects the transmitters of the spinal

cord, and ultimately modiﬁes the way
you feel pleasure and pain, memory,
thought, concentration, time percep-
tion, appetite and motor coordination.
Sound familiar? Other areas of the body
that THC impacts include the heart and
lungs.

There are both negative and positive
effects of using reefer. People claim that
smoking relieves pain, lessens nausea,
decreases stress-related problems, and
even clears up asthma. The downside: a
combination of lowered blood pressure
and increasing heart rate causes smok-
ers to have a 400 percent higher chance
of heart attack. Also, pot users have the
same lung problems as tobacco smokers,
and are three times as likely to get cancer
as a non—user. More obvi-
ously, it hinders
driv- ing and
think-
ing

ability.

Guys, you

might want to

have a seat, because

grass also decreases

sperm production

and functionality if

smoked by young
men.

Informed
voters?
Washington and
Colorado have both

passed bills decriminalizing the posses-
sion of less than an ounce of dope for
people twenty-one and older. Now, stop
jumping up and down, because all is
not rainbows and sunshine in the world.

government is missing a giant opportu-
nity. Yes, ganja affects the brain pretty
severely. So does alcohol. The only real
difference is that hash causes more last-
ing damage. Can you imagine the rev-

housing for cannabis rule-breakers.

Is it worth the cost? I don’t think so.
I’m not saying that I agree with a “pot
for everyone!” world, but I do like the
idea of being debt free. The entrepreneur

0

. Pot is the #1
most used
illegal drug
 m  in the US

crs

mega; pot is a $35 billion imiustry

-4.
.-

Smoking increases the”, ,
odds of cancer 3x,.and 
a 400% greater chance  v  .- ,. 
of heart attack  ’ ‘ ~Cannab‘is has '  
wt;  1 been around for“ ‘

 .,

C0 and WA jo‘ ed the Neth-
erlands’, Peru . _ nd" Danglae-.  =, 
desh as the plac"_es?-Vvhere  ~~ ‘
weed possession is legal ,_ W

 M  ' at
‘ The US annually. , ’
spends $15 billion? 3.‘

’ L

2900 years  

I

 ,_ on Prohibition  I

First, the federal government has not
lifted the ban. What this means for us
is the beginning of a battle between the
states and nation. Technically, the fed-
eral law supersedes state law. Which is
probably the precedent that the Justice
Department will want to set, as this is
the ﬁrst time in history a law of this sort
has been passed anywhere in the world.
So even though two states are pushing
for the Promised Land, chances are high
that they will get shut down.

If you ask my opinion, the federal

enue generated by putting an outrageous
sin tax in place? Economists can, and
they say that the industry could gener-
ate between $44 billion and $100 billion
in revenue for the country. Per year. Can
you say deﬁcit reduction? More ben-
eﬁcially, drug stores popping up sea to
sea would be some serious job inﬂux.
Around 75 jobs per store. If that’s not
incentive, here are some sobering facts
(pun intended): the US spends almost
$14 billion every year in prohibition
costs, plus over $1 billion on prison

in me sees a booming industry ahead,
and I honestly don’t think there’s much
we can do to stop it. The black market al-
ready exists. Legalizing weed would de-
crease the street cost, and therefore drug-
related crime, and completely eliminate
the related black market. A strongly reg-
ulated endeavor can only help us. Mari-
juana (for medicinal purposes) is already
the number one cash crop in California.
All in favor raise yourjoint.

   

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

Now with
4BR/2BA Units. A Two & FOUR
Kitchen, Laundnt

 BEDROOMS
& Huge Living Room  AVAILABLE

    G NE ALS’   °
RETR AT -

NOT f~xfﬁh.:~ma(1 with \Nashingt0r1 5. Lee Ur1i~.n‘2r':5i{‘y'

Townhome Style Apartments
On Nelson Street

2BR / 1BA UNITS and
4BR / 2BA UNITS

WASHER.jTDRYER , WATER, TRASH, FIBER OPTIC INTERNET ALL INCLUDED

  
 

       
       

g1>-I'.IT

,, over here!
*5

‘I ,. ’ ‘ ’ 3, 5 E‘: J
E , ‘ , , ‘X ‘ V;;‘.‘ Ev V V’ ‘I V’
i

<2
i.

,,.vnaI0N

540-464-373
ian@tbmcom.com

 
  

W Volleyball 2. Bus-V~bulI

V

THE QIJTLIDIIF-E MANADCICNT CD

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&Iife

, Dank’s Giving

A collaboration between the General ,

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF WR ITE R

In preparation for Thanksgiving, a
group of student organizations brought
the band Dank Sinatra to campus on
Friday night. Dank Sinatra, based out of
Athens, Ga., is one of the best and most
popular jam bands of the South. The
ﬁve—man band consisted of two guitar-
ists, a bassist, a keys player, and a drum-
mer, all of whom also sang.

Activities Board, the Student Activities
Board, and multiple fraternities includ-
ing KA, SAE, Sigma Chi, and Sigma Nu
presented the band at the Pavilion from
9 p.m. to 12 a.1n. last Friday night. The
goal of the beneﬁt concert was to raise
money to purchase instruments for stu-
dents at the Rockbridge County High

-_i H‘.
Li,-

Name: Eric Rosato’ l3.
Hometown:'Syracuse,_N.Y.- ,
Maj or(s): Biology and Politics ‘
Activities on campus: Mock
Convention, Peer Counseling

Where will you spend
Thanksgiving this year? a

It wﬂl be my first 
outside of the States as I head

to London to visit friends and to
see a Mumford and Sons show.
Trying to honor the holiday in the
UK will prove an interesting task,
undoubtedly, but I’m sure we’ll
dnim something up.

What are you looking most
forward to doing during

A Thanksgiving break?

'I‘raveling and visiting friends in a
setting outside Lexington.

Pumpkin, pecan, apple or
cranberry?
Apple.

ti LI.-:E‘.. LI::i~.-rt

ii‘ Eric Rosato '13     

What will be the hardest pet 

about ieavingwahroi e  .
Forgetting that We have”—to come _ — a

back to ﬁnals and terrn papers V ,

Does your family  any ’
Thanksgiving traditions?

Our neighborhood had an
annual Turkey Bowl in which the
fathers and sons play a game A
of ﬂag football’ on Thanksgiving T
morning before heading off to
celebrate ﬂie holiday with our
families. But as the sons have
gotten older and headed in

different directions, it’s a tradition” .7

that has passed. Other than

V that, it’s.usually arun-of-the_—mil1 _ _

Americanthanksgivingforus. _  , _ it »
i  * T  I'a_vorit_e_clas‘s_atW&L?- ,

f, African.Politi'cs with Professor‘,

What are you most grateful
for? . , ‘ ‘

My health. Then my family and I ‘
friends. » » . _ V

Who would you rather have
at your Thanksgiving table,

comes early to W&L

ah, up .

Band members of Dank Sinatra played from 9 p.m. to 12

.§e,_ ~.

a.m.»last Friday at the Pavilion, doing the

     

benefit /concert to raise money to purchase instruments for Rockbridge County High School students.

School. Tickets were sold the week
before and at the door for $5 each, and
alcohol was available at a cash bar for
students over 2 1.

Like many Pavilion events in the past,
there was a less than impressive turnout,
due to the location as well as poor ad-
vertising. This, however, did not affect
Dank Sinatra’s performance in the least,
who put on a exciting show and stayed in
a great mood regardless ofthe amount of
people there.

Sophomore Patrick Wellborn coin-

: 2+ .
  merited, “l’ve been to every single Dank

Sinatra show at this school, and they
were as good as ever tonight.”

' By Mariel Pearl
S’;__1'A_l_*'F:' WRITER ~

\

. ',lliobertE.,Ilee‘or‘George    
 2 "   
A,  on;.Hisir\strumental_ v— f 

. . . _o11rtding.of nation’
metl'1ing’_.l would be more A '
sted in hearing about V"

A ’  life jor1_.ee;Te_ ' ye
 a chance tositwitliitlte ﬁrst _’

pﬁsildentilof United. States W

andsomeone ‘so pivotal in the . 3’ ’ ‘
" cireation of the institutions that still a

 this nation today would be ,

_ great and something‘: couldn’t

pass up:

A Favorite spot to study on
5 campus? ~ .

 r

.Dickiovick 9 it was a spring term
study abroad program in Ghana.

We had a great group of students -

and professors, the material was
beyond interesting, and there's

, just so_‘methingabout_ being able

Dank’s nonstop three hour show was
ﬁlled with a variety of southem clas-
sics mixed with their own originals. By
blending different music genres together,
the band created a unique sound which
was “something that can only be de-
scribed once it has been experienced,”
according to the group’s biography.

Although there wasn’t a majority ofthe
student body present, every person who
attended seemed to have a fantastic time.
At midnight, Dank Sinatra ﬁnished off
their set with a glorious, electric guitar-
led Star Spangled Banner. After speak-
ing with the band after the performance,
they expressed that they really enjoyed

to immerse yourself in the culture
and its people that can’t be
matched by a simple classroom
lecture. It is an experience I will

V take with me for years to come.

the show and would love to come back
and play again at Washington & Lee.

Said bass player Clint Meadows:
“We’re not going to worry about where
this band will be in two to three years.
We’re thinking about where this band is
right now and what things we can do to
improve and master the sound of Dank
Sinatra for our fans and ourselves alike.”

Hopefully in the future, Dank Sinatra
will return to play many more shows
where many more students will be able
to attend.

  

What do you do in your spare

’ time?

Spare time?

  Caroline Bearden '16

 blame: Caroline Bearden ‘ 16

_.‘_'I-Iometown:Summit,N.].
I ,_ Major(s): Business _

I  ‘, 'ties'onpus:Riding

Team, Outing Club

. 4 Where will you spend

_At home. _

i if  are you most loo’

S forward to doing during
Thanksgiving break?

. Seeing my family, catching up

with friends, and relaxing!

 iwhatwillbethehardest

part about leaving W&L for a

week?

Missing all of my friends here

Pumpkin, Pecan, Apple or
Cranberry?
Pumpkin.

Describe yourself in three
words.
Determined, nice, easy-going.

Favorite spot to study on
campus?
Book Nook in Leyburn.

Ifyou could choose to stay a

certain age forever, what age

would it be?

All ages have their advantages
and disadvantages, I wouldn’t
want to live forever and miss
the things that come later in
life.

and the freedom of college life.

Who would you rather have
at your Thanksgiving table,
Robert E. Lee or George
Washington? ‘ Why?’

Robert E. Lee — he is just the
ultimate gentleman and man of
honor (not that George isn’t, of
course).

 

 

 

 

' THE RING-TUM PHI -

M O N DAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

arts&Iife

 

 

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

For most families, Thanksgiving is a
time of reﬂection and rest. It is one of
those all-too-rare days when we can
come together to share a‘ meal, recall

memories of the years gone by, and

show gratitude for those we love. But for
some students, this Thanksgiving break
won’t be what we have all come to ex-
pect. Those who will be traveling home
to places hard-struck by recent weather
catastrophes are in for a far different ex-
perience.

Students from New York City, New
Jersey, and Long Island have been hear-
ing stories for weeks about the chaos in
their hometowns. After Hurricane Sandy
struck, it left a host of issues in its wake.

Some families have been living without .

power for more than two weeks. With
the chilly weather of November well
underway, the loss of heat is more than
merely an inconvenience.

Said Frank Diez ’ 14 of Bronx, N.Y.: “I
didn’t have any power in my house for
almost a week. My mom couldn’t stay
in her house because nothing was work-
ing.”

“My family lost power on the 29th and,
with the recent snow storm, they’re not
expected to get power back until the 13th
at the earliest,” said Kristina Seon ’l5 of
Long Island, N.Y. “It’s frustrating being
here and knowing my family is going
through this. It’s incredible how much
we rely on electricity now and they don’t
have any of it.”

 

   

9-at.

Hurricane Sandy proved to be the most
destructive storm in the history of Con
Edison, the energy company which pro-
vides electricity to much of New York
City. 174,680 customers lost power on
Staten Island alone. While turning the
power back on is the company’s main
priority, many homeowners now have
to contend with the damages from the
ﬂood which might delay the restoration
of electricity.

According to Diez, “I know that most
of Manhattan got ﬂooded. My friends
who live in the lower part of Manhattan
were forced to stay home because every-
thing was so ﬂooded. There wasn’t any-
where to go.”

Furthermore, New York City and New
Jersey have become subject to fuel short-
ages. For the ﬁrst time since the 1970s,
officials have started rationing gasoline.
This posed a huge problem in recent
weeks for parents of W&L students, who
had planned on visiting campus for Par-
ents’ Weekend.

“There were hour-long lines at the
few pumps that were still working, and
sometimes they ran out before everyone
had a chance to reﬁll, so people had wait-
ed hours for nothing,” said Sarah Scaf-
ﬁdi ’l5 from New York City. “My mom
was able to make it down to see me for
Parents’ Weekend, but she had to drive
an hour upstate to get gas because there
is such a shortage in our neighborhood
and in New Jersey.”

. . . I

passerby examln the extensive damage lft behind by Hurricane Sandy at the

Shenerock Shore Club in Rye, N.Y.

I

  

.- ‘ -..i J’, » '
_‘/mi’ 

_ .

  

5

«L:

‘ iii’ «J:

This aerial photo shows a collapsed house along the central Jersey Shore coast on Wednesday, Oct.

31, 2012. New Jersey got the brunt of Sandy, which made landfall in the state and killed six people.
More than 2 million customers were without power as of Wednesday afternoon, down from a peak

of 2.7 million.

With Break right around the comer,
students from these areas are gearing up
for the unexpected. Though the clean-up
has been a slow process, the city has be-
gun to repair itself.

Said Seon: “The city is still trying to
get back on its feet too. I think Thanks-
giving is going to have a different feel
this year, [and we will be] thankful for
things that we didn’t think about before.”

f .

- KATHRYN LANG

  

MIKE GROLL/AP PHOTO

  

‘PI
2.’.

, ‘  ru
‘ 3% ..

A car goes through the high water as Hurricane Sandy bears down

 

on the East Coast, Sunday, Oct. 28, 2012, in Ocean City, Md.
Governors from North Carolina, where steady rains were whipped
by gusting winds Saturday night, to Connecticut declared states of
emergency. Delaware ordered mandatory evacuations for coastal

communities by 8 p.m. Sunday.

ALEX BRANDON/AP PHOTO

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

.IP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
MARIEL PEARL
BAILEY RUSSELL
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to'edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

For Politics Professor Eduardo Velas-
quez, spinning isn’t just a fonn of exer-
cise, but rather a source of revival from
a debilitating illness. “Spinning brought
me back to life, literally,” said Velasquez.

Several years ago, the Colombian-bom
professor was diagnosed with Lyme dis-
ease. It took 15 years before he was ﬁnally
diagnosed, allowing the bacteria to spread
into his system and brutally alter his me-
tabolism and sleeping patterns.

According to Velasquez, many students
unconsciously carry Lyme diseases. “It
just completely incapacitated me,” said
Velasquez about the illness. “At that
point, I thought: ‘my career is over.’”

Before physicians could ﬁnd the cause
of Velasquez’s pain, his body could hardly
handle simple, everyday tasks. “I came to
the point where walking up four ﬂights
of steps was painful,” he said. “I wanted
to move my body, but everything hurt so
much that I couldn’t even exercise.”

In October 2009, the pain became so se-
vere that Velasquez was forced to take a
leave of absence, with the advice of sev-
eral professionals. However, even Lyme
wasn’t strong enough to stop his tenacious
character.

“I have spoken with and continue to

Professor Eduardo Velasquez gives
politics a whole new “spin.”

speak with students devastated by ill-

  

A new spin on

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

things

   

Professor Velasqez, aka Eddie V, will be teachingspin classes Mon-
day, Wednesday, Friday at 12:15 p.m. during winter term.

nesses they don’t yet fully comprehend
-- because even specialists don’t,” he said.
With the help of a heavy dose of hope and
antibiotics, Velasquez began his career
on the bike. The slow peddling at the
start of his spinning career is symbolic
of his incremental recovery, where each
step forward is like one turn higher on

4 the bike dial.

Although his “body is not what it was,”

. he uses every ounce of strength left to

teach spin classes at the University, with

' the goal of helping others feel happy and
I supported. “I surrender to spin and cel-
- ebrate that life is a gift,” said Velasquez.

“Whatever that is reminds me that we are
not alone in this universe.”

Velasquez’s spin classes are more than
just a series of scheduled workouts. He
uses his background music to create
trust with his students. With the help of
social media, it’s “impossible” not to
get to know his students on a personal
level. This week, he used ﬁrst-year spin
student Elizabeth McGarry’s online Spo-
tify playlist during class. He also creates

Facebook pages for his politics and spin
classes.

Professor Velasquez spins like there’s no
tomorrow, as he says spinning tomorrow
is no guarantee. He tends to smile after
every workout “because me teaching spin
does not make sense.” After all, he never
imagined that he would be in the condition
he is in today - feeling stronger and better
than ever before.

“My illness is an odd sort of blessing.
It reminds me at every moment that that
moment is all we have, and we don’t even
have that,” said Velasquez. “I can’t avoid
the conclusion that I am a better person
for it.”

EddieV’s spin classes will be held Mon-
day, Wednesday, and Friday at 12:15 p.m.
during winter term. He will be offering a
spring term course titled, “A Course About
Nothing,” where he will incorporate spin
and yoga into teaching about getting out
of our heads and learning to be present in
everything we do. Check out his spinning
Facebook page online!

Going home to fmily and Sandy ,

-er

 

 

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

..Sp0I‘t

 

By Sarah Ward
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee rounded out the
regular season with a 42-23 win over
Shenandoah in Lexington on Saturday
afternoon. With 4:10 left in the ﬁrst quar-

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

ter, senior running back Sasha Vandalov
ran six yards for a touchdown, posting

the only points for either team in the ﬁrst
quarter.

Shenandoah scored the first points in
the second quarter, completing a ﬁeld

    

goal with 12:38 left. The Generals re-
sponded with two touchdowns in the last

~ W&L takes Shenandoa

43 seconds of the ﬁrst half. Vandalov ran
four yards for his second touchdown of
the afternoon.

The ﬁrst play ofthe Hornets’ next drive
resulted in a fumble recovered by the

,  Generals and consequently a 13-yard
‘ i pass from junior quarterback Nick Lom-
i bardo into the endzone to junior tight end

Alex Evans with just 26 seconds left in

- the half to bring the score to 21-3.

The Generals began the second half
with a four yard touchdown run by se-
nior running back Brett Murray as a
result of an interception by senior line-
backer Zach Zoller. The Hornets then
scored a touchdown on their next drive
to end the third quarter with the Generals
up 28-10.

W&L scored the ﬁrst points ofthe ﬁnal
quarter as well with yet another touch-
down by Vandalov, who ran 22 yards to
reach the endzone. Sophomore kicker

*' Joe Campbell took over kicking duties

from senior Luke Heinsohn after Van-
da1ov’s third touchdown to score his ﬁrst
point ofthe game.

Several ﬁrst-year players saw time
in the fourth quarter, including fresh-
man running back Jimmy Moynahan
who scored his first career touchdown
on a three yard run with 8:03 left in the
game. Shenandoah scored two additional

h, next NCAAs A

Defensive back Jeff Schulte and inner line backer Peter Partee

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

touchdowns in the fourth quarter, but the
Generals still ﬁnished on top with a ﬁnal
score of 42-23.

Kevin Travaline, Jake Pelton, and Wal-
ter Ramsey each had six tackles on de-
fense for the Generals.

The Generals now await their matchup

for their first NCAA Division III playoff
game, which will be announced on Sun-
day night. W&L, the ODAC champions,
earned an automatic bid with their win
last Saturday over Hampden-Sydney.

Rugby comes with challenge and responsibilty

By Hendley Badcock
STA F F w R I T E R

As with many club sports, the rich tra-
dition and spirited camaraderie of Wash-
ington & Lee Minks Rugby Club provide
players with an enjoyable environment
to compete and challenge both them-
selves and their teammates. According

to Coach John Welsh, rugby’s inclusive- A

ness is what makes the sport so distinct.
He explains, “there truly is a position for
everyone on the ﬁeld [as] each position
demands something different.”
Generally, the team consists of twenty-
ﬁve men; ﬁfteen players comprise an
“A” and a “B” side during match play.

This year, seven seniors have led the
club through the regular season with a
5-1 record.

Watching the complex plays and
unique formations for the ﬁrst time can
undoubtedly lead to some confusion
about rugby. Having to learn and enact
those plays brings out a whole new level
of devotion to the sport.

“You deﬁnitely have to want to learn,”
ﬁrst-year Wilson Prioleau states. Sur-
prisingly, 80% of the club has never
been exposed to rugby before. Prioleau,
a ﬁrst-time player, recalls how it took a

couple of games to really ﬁgure out their
positions. Fellow ﬁrst-year Blake Odom
agrees. “It was pretty easy to pick up be-
cause most of the other freshman hadn’t
played either,” said Odom. Welsh and
Coach Tom Lovell, as well as the upper-
classmen, always offer help and encour-
agement to the younger players. Welsh
himself began playing rugby at Radford
University before participating in the
Roanoke Men’s Club.

Minks rugby competes in the Virginia
Rugby Union against Lynchburg Col-
lege, Roanoke College, Hampton Syd-

ney, Mary Washington, and Christopher
Newport, their most challenging oppo-
nent. Outside of ofﬁcial matches, rugby
also plays against some Division I and
11 teams, namely VMI and James Madi-
son University. From mid-August to the
beginning of November, Minks rugby
participated in the fall season; beginning
after February break, they will advance
to the spring post-season. “Even if we

don’t make the post season [due to our

fall season rankingll we still schedule
tournaments and matches,” Welsh states.
“Players not only learn how to compete

but how to handle the responsibility of
managing a team,” Welsh remarks. A
club sport, rugby requires much leader-
ship from players to handle everything
from scheduling matches to managing
ﬁscal issues. These jobs are distributed
amone...:h,e.. I.{IP.$.i§1§,£1t;.,,.££9aS‘1¥9?§a.;.§§l?L"¢h
secretary, recruiting chair, and captain.

Rugby welcomes new players at any
time; those interested should contact
rugby President Jack Gallagher, galla-
gherj13@mai1.wlu.edu. Practice takes
place every Tuesday, Thursday, and Fri-
day, 4:00-6:00 on Fudge Field.

Volleyball falls in the first round of the NCAA tournament

By Shelby Flores
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington & Lee volleyball team
will not move on in the NCAA Tourna-
ment after a loss to ﬁfth-ranked Christo-
pher Newport University last Friday.

The Generals kept the ﬁrst and third
games close but were unable to pull out
the win in the 25-22, 25-11, 25-20 loss to
the Captains.

CNU’s strong blocking kept W&L at

Kyle leger

a .099 hitting percentage. Head Coach
Bryan Snyder said that CNU blocked
better against them than the ﬁrst time the
teams met in early October.

“In general, both teams played at a
higher level,” Snyder said. “We just
eouldn’t come up with a big kill when
we needed it.”

First-year outside hitter Anna Lausberg

led the Generals with 14 kills in her ﬁrst
NCAA Tournament appearance. Junior
setter Meghan Meleski and ﬁrst-year
libero Kasey Cannon led the team with
nine digs a piece.

The loss ends the 2012 season for the
Generals. The team ﬁnished the season
with a 26-10 overall record and a 10-1

conference record. This year

marked the team’s 13th ODAC title and
its 11th trip to the NCAA Tournament.

Snyder is happy with the improvement
his team made this year and he says he is
excited for next year. The Generals will
return all 12 players next season, includ-
ing seven ﬁrst-years.

“We can continue to build and improve,
rather than try to rebuild,” Snyder said.

Coach Snyder says he would like to
thank the players, the coaching staff,
the athletic training staff, and everyone
else who supported the team this year for
making the 2012 season so successful. _

Hailey Hartley

Michael Vick is perhaps the most polarizing quar-
terback to ever play in the NFL. Vick has dazzled
fans for years with his unique skill set, but shocked
them with his off.the ﬁeld issues. In 2007, he was
implicated in a dog-ﬁghting ring and it seemed that
his career was over. The Falcons, his former team,
were disgraced and promptly released him. After
serving jail time and ﬁling for bankruptcy, the Ea-
gles took a chance on him. Initially not the starter,
Vick worked hard and created a QB controversy,
earning the starting job. In 2010, his second year
with the Eagles, Vick was a revelation, however,
he has been in a downward spiral ever since.

It appears that Vick has reached another rock bot-
tom in his career. This season, the Eagles are 3-5,
following last years performance in which an in-
credible offseason earned them the “dream-team”
label. Vick led this so-called dream team to a dis-
appointing 8-8 record. This season is going even
worse. Through eight games, Vick has thrown 9
interceptions and fumbled 10 times. Vick has been
so bad that Andy Reid, one of the longest tenured
coaches in the NFL, might lose hisjob.

Not only has Vick been bad on the ﬁeld, he has
created controversy off it. His brother, Marcus
Vick, recently tweeted during last week’s Eagles —
Saints game,“P1ease trade my brother. We request-
ing out of Philly! ! 1! Please please please.” Michael
Vick had nothing to do with the tweet, but the
peop1e"who Vick surrounds himself with have let
him down yet again. Michael Vick has not handled
the press particularly well himself, either. When
asked how he felt about his potential benching,
Vick said he would support Andy Reid’s decision.
Vick should’ve been more outspoken, asserting
himself as a leader and claiming his stake as the
startinggquarterback. Instead, he appeared unsure
and timid.

After two disappointing seasons, Andy Reid

is on the hot
seat. In order
to protect his
job, Reid needs
to make changes,
to show the orga-

  
 
  

A losing re-
cord is never
really accept-
able in the NFL;
with only 16 games
in a season, even

nization and their

fans that he is still
a great head coach.
The change started
with the ﬁring of
defensive coordi-

he Eagles have been struggling this season. They are
3-6 and are at the bottom of the NFC East standings.
Who is to blame, Quarterback Michael Vick or Head
. Coach Andy Reid?
Kyle and Hailey line up on the issue.

week one can have
playoff implications.
The NFC East has tra-
ditionally been one of
the toughest divisions

nator Juan Castillo.

Vick will be next.

The Eagles have rookie Nick Foles waiting in the
wings for his opportunity. Reid can bench Vick and
insert Foles, and if Foles shows promise and wins
some games, Reid’s career could be salvaged.

Starting Nick Foles is a win-win move for the
Eagles. If he performs well, the Eagles have found
their quarterback for the future. If Foles tanks, the
Eagles will have a better shot at a high draft pick,
where they can select a long-term solution to their
quarterback problem.

The Eagles organization is in a state of disarray.
The team has failed to meet expectations time and
time again. The Eagles have some great pieces on
both sides of the ball, but a struggling quarterback
and offensive line has kept them from reaching
their potential. Andy Reid needs to do something
soon, for the team and for his own sake. It appears
that change will be starting Nick Foles at quarter-
back. No one can know for sure when this impend-
ing move will happen, but it seems inevitable. If
the Eagles lose to the Cowboys this weekend, and
Vick continues his poor play, get ready for Nick
Foles against the Redskins on November 18th.

in the league. The Gi-
ants are the defending
Super Bowl champions, and the division race is
always close.

The Philadelphia Eagles are 3-5, home to some
of the toughest fans in the nation, and people are
calling for heads. When Michael Vick arrived,
fans and NFL experts believed that this was the
Eagles’ time. They picked up huge defensive free
agents last year in Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie
and Nnamdi Asomugha. The Eagles were poised
to be the Miami Heat of the NFL. So what isn’t
working?

One of the most frequent suggestions to help
ﬁx this err-er-prone team is to bench Michael
Vick. The guy’s status as a superstar just hasn’t
been what it was when he was in Atlanta. There
are flashes of his brilliance, and then he drops the
ball... and not on purpose. But should Vick really
be benched? Probably not.

Nick Foles deﬁnitely is not the answer. Mi-
chael Vick hasn’t lost his talent; he seems to have
lost his direction. His offensive line is horren-
dous, and the few times he actually gets a chance
to do something with the ball he’s probably so

 

shocked he forgets what he’s supposed to be do-
ing. Hence the 19 turnovers. The team is talented
and under the right direction, they could be living
up to the standards that they have set for them-
selves. -

The solution for the Eagles is for Andy Reid
to step down as head coach. The guy has had a
rough year, no one can blame him for that, but
his inability to inspire and drive his team is unac-
ceptable. He’s been a great coach and loyal to
the Eagles, but his time as head coach is winding
down. I believe that given a new coaching staff,
the Eagles can play at the highest level. If they
are able to come out strong the second half of the
season, Philadelphia can still salvage the season.
Their best chance of doing this is with Michael
Vick under center.

 

 

 

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012

s ports

 

in the numbers
10

The total number of weeks in a row that the Ala-
bama Crimson Tide spent at the top of the Associ-
ated Press college football poll. Alabama fell to
fourth this week after losing to Texas A&M on Sat-

urday, 29-24, while at home.

76

The total number of goals that Lionel Messi has scored
this calendar year. He scored numbers 75 and 76 to take
the record from Pele when Barcelona beat Mallorca on Sat-
urday. He is also nine goals away from Gerd Mueller’s career

record.

17

The average point differential for the New York Knicks this
season. The next highest for any team is the Miami Heat
with 9.5. The Knicks are 4-0 while the Heat are 5-1, with

their only loss going to the Knicks.

55

The total number of points that the Baltimore Ravens
scored in their game versus the Oakland Raiders on Satur-
day. This is a franchise record for the Ravens. This also ties
the Raiders’ franchise record for points allowed. The Raid-
ers allowed 55 points twice before, once in 1961 and again

in 1981.

420
The total number of touchdowns that Peyton Manning has
thrown in his career. He threw number 420 while leading
the Denver Broncos over the Carolina Panthers on Sunday.
He is now second on the all-time list. Only Brett Favre has

-thrown more touchdowns in a single career, with 508.

Congratulations to Molly Ortiz and Lauren
Schultz for earning bids to the NCAA Cross
Country Championship. They earned their bids
by placing eighth and ninth respectively at
the South/Southeast Regional Championships
on Saturday at Emory University. The National
Championship is Nov. 17 at Terre Haute, lnd.

 
 
 
 
 

.. -v‘:

W&L Voted last in
ODAC preseason poll

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

The Old Dominion Athletic Conference re-
leased its 2012 Women’s Basketball Preseason
Coaches Poll and placed the Generals at 12th
place. Guilford, the defending ODAC cham-
pion, received eight ﬁrst-place votes and took
the top spot in the coaches’ poll.

Washington & Lee will return with
ﬁve players and two starters from the 2011-12
team that went I4-13 overall and 11-9 in the
conference. The Generals progressed to the
ODAC semiﬁnals, where they lost to Virginia-
Wesleyan, 60-58.

Senior forwards Rachel Warrick and
Katy Wilson return as the top two scorers.
Warrick started 26 games last season and aver-
aged 8.1 points per game and 4.0 rebounds per
game. Wilson, a 2012 Third Team All-ODAC
selection, started all 27 games last season and

had 11.8 points per game and 8.8 rebounds per 

game.

The Generals’ team will feature 11
members, including ﬁve ﬁrst-years. W&L
begins the season under the direction of new
head coach Christine Clancy on Thursday in
Roanoke for a 7:00 p.m. game.

enlor Katy Wilson
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Women’s swimming leaves
Sweet Br1ar 1n the1r wake

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s swimming
team won their only match this week when
they visited Sweet Briar by a score of 114-78.
The Generals swept ﬁve individual events in
the match-up and set four pool records.

In the 200 Free, ﬁrst-year Sarah Schaffer
won with a pool record of 2:12.73. Sopho-
more Kate Feeser and senior Kelly Mae Ross
rounded out the top three. The Gennies also
swept the 800 Free, led by Sydney Gay. Re-
becca Brown, Emma Swabb, and Rachel
Adams-Heard, taking the top three spots re-
spectively, swept the 50 Free. Sophomore

Caroline Hamp led the 200 Individual Medley
efforts and Colleen Moore won the 200 Fly.
The Generals set several relay pool re-
cords, including the 200 Medley. A time of
2:06.61 was set by Hamp, ﬁrst-year Stephanie
Foster, Swabb, and Schaffer. Foster"s leg of
the 50 back set an individual pool record. The
400 Medley, made up by Swabb, Schaffer, se-
nior Delaney Rolfe and sophomore Meredith
Hardy set a pool record with a time of4:09.28.

 *3

  

 

The Generals will return to the pool when r.

they travel to Carnegie Mellon fora quad meet
on Nov. 17.

Junior Katie D’lnnocenzo
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Monday

Men's Basketball

Snyder sets up the
Volleyball team for success

By Pat McCarron
STA F F w R l T E R

Having grown up in rural Ohio and Pennsyl-
vania towns and attended Washington and Lee
during his college years, Coach Bryan Snyder
is no stranger to the tight-knit community of
W&L. Perhaps it is his upbringing that makes
him the perfect coach to bring teams together,
to get the most out of his players. The last
eleven seasons for W&L’s women’s volleyball
team prove this notion.

On Nov. 3 the volleyball team won its ninth
Old Dominion Athletic Conference title under
Coach Snyder’s tenure, a reign that has also
brought him the honor of ODAC Coach of
the Year eight times. His team moved on to
the NCAA tournament, where they hoped to

 expound upon the team’s already successful
"  2012 campaign.

But don’t expect Coach Snyder to place
much value on his Coach of the Year acco-
lades. He says they mean little to him person-
ally. He prefers to view them as a representa-

 tion of the team’s success as a whole:

“[They are a] sign that the program is very

strong, but there were years when another

oach deserved it and didn’t win. It’s just

~. given to the best team, but not really the best

coach,” said Snyder. “But it validates all the
hard work and it’s something I’m very proud
of.”

Snyder tends to credit his team more than

. himself, but his guidance has instilled key val-
‘ ues into his players. As is necessary for suc-

cess in any sport, Snyder demands “consistent

Tuesday Wednesday

hard work,” something that as a coach, he has
prided himself on his whole life. The bottom
line is, the players know what they are getting
themselves into: they are put to work every
day, and are placed in a tough schedule. But
according to Snyder, the key attributes of the
typical W&L student athlete allow his players
to rise to the challenge.

“The student athletes of W&L are great: they
are willing to be pushed and respond to that. A
great coach without great players is nothing,”
said Snyder.

Bryan Snyder knows a thing or two about
the typical W&L student. He is one. Before
graduating from W&L in 1995, Coach Sny-
der played for W&L’s club men’s volleyball
team. This was not any ordinary club team.
Snyder was pitted against some of‘ the great
club teams in the area, challenging the likes
of Duke and the University of Virginia in the
Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association
South Conference. In addition to serving four

years in the men’s volleyball club team, Coach '

Snyder honed his coaching skills as a student
assistant for W&L’s women’s team. He has
not stopped coaching since.

Although his return as a General was not
immediate upon his graduation, there is no
questioning Coach Snyder’s allegiance to the
school, and it was his familiar sense of com-
munity that brought him back. When asked to
return, Coach Snyder did not hesitate.

“To be able to come here and impact their

Thursday - Friday

at Rutgers-Newark 6pm

experience in a positive way was something I
couldn’t pass up,” said Snyder.

The most special aspect ofcoaching at W&L
has been the relationships he has formed over
the years. Having gone through the experienc-
es of his athletes himself, he “can share suc-
cesses and support through challenges.” These
relationships have hardly been limited to the
prototypical coach-player bond. Whether it’s
attending a former player’s wedding or a sim-
ple visit during alumni weekend, the relation-
ships he has built with his players have formed
lasting memories that he will forever cherish.

The prospects‘ were high this year, as W&L’s
youngest, and perhaps most well-rounded
team headed to the most important games of
the season.

“This year’s team, from top to bottom, is
skilled in all areas. We have no specialists and
the skill level all-around is probably the high-
est it’s ever been. We’re not as big, but we’re
athletic and fast. Everybody can do everything
and we have a plain style and system this year
where were wide open.”

Although the Generals lost in the ﬁrst round
of the NCAA tournament, next year they will
lose just one senior from this year’s team.

  

Saturday Sunday

at Rutgers-Newark

Women’s Swimming

at Carnegie Mellon

Men's Swimming

at Carnegie Mellon

a.

Women’s Basketball

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs Swarthmore 7pm at Swarthmore

Cross Country

NCAA’s

Football

at Hobart

Wrestling

at George Mason

 

