   
 

'f527z;_.I5$
5 Z
v. I/(p
Vl0.I5

 

    

.L¢vsunaLtveaatsmbaea+emn.aega»ef .

A ‘ opmious / page 3 A I .  ,

" "-ct. j 

W&L swimmers broke six records at the
A ODACchamfjionships thisweekend

rccorals,sol£tttctivw:!

 "i   . I SPORTS / page8

   WASHINGTON AND LE U

 

f THE RING-TUM PHI.

  PiKA sus

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

By Neil Haggerty
N EWS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee University
community will have the opportunity
to witness the honor system at work in
a Student Body Hearing on Thursday in
Lee Chapel.

A student was found guilty in a closed
hearing by the Executive Committee
and decided to appeal this hearing to
the W&L community. If the accused is
found guilty in this hearing, he or she
will be dismissed from the University.
If the student is not found guilty, all re-
cords from the hearing will be destroyed
at the end of the academic year.

THE PLAY'ERS

The President of the Student Bar As-
sociation, Amy Conant Law ’ 13, will act
as the chair of the Student Body Hear-
ing. Conant appointed Benjamin Willson
Law ’ 14 as the Sergeant-at-Arms, who is
in charge of logistics for the event.

According to the White Book, the ac-
cused student may have up to three
honor advocates in the open hearing.
The Executive Committee ofthe Student
Body may also have three of its mem-

bers acting as advocates for their side of
the case.

The hearing will be judged by a jury
of members of the student body. Sev-
enty-ﬁve students are initially chosen
at random by the University Registrar,
according to the White Book. These stu-

dents will then be interviewed in order to '

determine that there are no conflicts of
interest involving this speciﬁc hearing.

Of the 14 jurors ultimately chosen for
the hearing (two of them are alternates),
four must be from the same school (un-
dergraduate or law) as the accused and
no more than four can be members ofthe
same graduating class, according to the
White Book.

TIIE Pl{OCESS

The accused student may choose to
withdraw from the University at any
point before the hearing, but the White
Book requires‘ that the W&L community
be informed of a potential Student Body
Hearing seven days before the actual
hearing.

If the accused does not choose to

THE I{I.ILES

1 . NO II\'1“()R.\[.\’l‘IO\’ I“I{g().\-I :TI’I’I<] SIl‘I 'l)El\"I“

B()l)‘{.j;IIl*li\RI1\'(’: i\ri\\'7r:ii¥:ii\'1«; 'I‘IIiI11W\\’&I. (.‘:()1\I.i-

.\I17.\'I'l Y.

2 . )IEv.\rIBI<3RS ()I<‘ TIIE \V&L gT()B'lAI‘,YX ITY
;\II'ST PRESENT A PROPER '\V&L II)I<‘.\"I‘Il*‘I(i‘,=-\-
TION T() BE A]);\[ITTEI) I.\,’—T() LEE (,‘-IIAPEL. g

3. LEE CHAPEL'ATTIRE IS REQUIRED

4:. THE F‘OLL()\\'ING ITEl\IS ARE PROHIB-
ITED  LEE (‘IIAl’EL: I

-I\’OTEPADS AND PENS

-BOOK BAGS AND PURSES

-BIOBILE AND I.\'TER.\'ET DEVICES

-(.‘Al\IER.v\S

-RE(‘()RI)IN(} DE\'I(‘ES

-FOOD OR DRINK

 

withdraw, the hearing will move for-
ward, starting with the Chair reading the

‘ charge of the accused. Then, both the ac-

cused or an advocate of the accused and
the Executive Committee advocates may
issue opening statements.

Both parties may call upon any wit-
nesses from a list that they must give to
the Chair 24 hours before the hearing,
according to the White Book.

Witnesses from both parties will then
be called to speak about the case. Wit-
nesses may be questioned by the ac-
cused, the advocates of the accused, the
Executive Committee advocates and any
member of the jury, according to the
White Book

These witnesses are obligated to ap-
pear upon being summoned, according
to the White Book.

Witnesses will be excluded from the
hearing when they are not giving their
testimonies. At the discretion of the
chair, they may remain in the hearing af-
ter their testimonies, but those who are
allowed to remain cannot be recalled, ac-
cording to the White Book.

Both parties may make closing state-
ments after all witnesses present their
evidence. Then the Jury will deliberate
privately.

Thejury will vote in a ballot form and
those ballots will be counted by the Chair

._‘~_N g

 

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUl)ENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXVll,NUMBER15

 Appeal calls for Studen

THESCHEDULE

-DOORS OPFN: 8iA..\I.

-HEARING 'BE(-}INS: 9 ..t.'.\r.

-LEAVE AND RE-ENTER: ./\1<"I‘ER ()l’l<].\‘-
ING S'IL\'l‘E1\I] <1;\"I‘S ANI) m«:'1‘wI«:1«;. * w1'1‘.\'i«:ssi«:s

-BREAK FOR LUN(.‘.I~I: 13]<:'1‘Wi«:1«1.\' 12 I’..\I.
AND 1_:3o1>.M. -

-D.(V)ORS REOPEN: 1 RM.

-I—IEARIN(} LASTS UNTIL i.»\ \'ERI)I("T IS
R EA( ‘H EI)
*11-‘ (.)I'}<]S'l‘I().\' or‘ \\'l’l‘.\'l<1SSl<JS l<1X(‘l«Jlv1l)S '().\‘l<)-II()l'l\’, 'rni«:
(‘IIAIR .\-IAY l)l.~J(?1l)l<l ’l‘() i.;i:1i«:1»‘m' <)m«:.\' DOORS FOR s'ri'i>i«:x'r's
2'l‘()l<}XI'l‘. A I

and the Sergeant-at-Arms. Eight “guilty”
votes are required for a guiltylverdict.

After votes are counted, the Chair will

‘announce the verdict, according to the

White Book. This verdict cannot be ap-
pealed.

tBody Hearing

   

 

Student Body Hearings are held in Lee Chapel. All members of the W&L Community are welcome
to attend the hearing, but must present a proper W&L ID card.

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF warren

Students living in the current Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity House were required to move out. They may

only use the house to eat meals and conduct chapter meetings.

  

.},

NEIL HAGGERTY/ News Editor

Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity was sus-
pended until the end of this academic
yean

After the weekend at the end of formal
rush week, the Ofﬁce of Student Affairs

was made aware of potential conduct vi- .
olations made by Pi Kappa Alpha frater- .

nity submitted by an anonymous source.
There was a subsequent investigation
that discovered multiple instances of

high-risk behaviors, including drinking, ,

during that weekend. _
The current process is that a report is
written by Student Affairs and sent to the
lnterfraternity Council (IFC) to rule on.
The IFC conducted a trial in which PiKA
was found guilty of being involved in
high-risk activities that went against the

' policies onnew member education set

by the IFC andtheschool. ' g p
The ruling by the IFC was to suspend

PiKA as an active fraternity chapter until

the end of the academic year. This ruling

demanded that the current members ,liv- '

ing in the fraternity must move out of the
house, as all Washington & Lee sopho-
mores must live in University-owned
housing.

Both the fraternity in question and the

school have the opportunity to appeal the I

decision by the IFC, but neither decided
to appeal as both parties agreed that it
was a ‘fair ruling. . I

In order to return to campus in thefall, ,

the fraternity must fulﬁll certain sanc-
tions issued by both the school and‘-the

PiKA nationals. The school asked the

fraternity to institute a chapter wide’
standards board, to restructure their new

pended for the year

member education, to participate in a
day of service and to ﬁnally publish a

_ letter of apology in this newspaper.

. Additional ‘sanctions imposed by the
fratemityis nationals were to send mem-
bers to national events and to form an
alumni board to deal with fraternity is-
sues.

Current PiKA President Dan Dent ’13
explained that although the fraternity is
disappointed in what took place, they are
conﬁdent that they will be back in full
force in the fall. .

_ “We intend to take this as a learning ex-

' perience asopposed to being bitter about

it,’-’ said Dent. He said he believeshis en-
tire fraternity shares the same views on
the subject.

Dent explained that he beliejges  fra-
ternity was given a fair trial iind iiéport,

and is happy with- the way they‘ have,

been treated by the IFC and the school.

Dent also said that the school has been
very helpful with the transition out of the
house; in providing housing in Woods

Creek and Gaines for the members.
‘PiKA is also __alTowe'd to continue to
have meals in the house, as well as chap-
ter meetings. T
Dean of Students Sidney Evans said
she was impressed byithe cooper‘ 

and‘ respectfulness the jactiiiesiland of-_

ﬁcers of; ‘PiKA Mdispliayed throughout
the entire-‘process. Evans stressed that
this«_cas’e“_.i’s_  important example of the

—scho0l’s'liero tolerance olic on an '
P Y Y

type of hazing or high-risk activities,
‘and encourages students tognot hesitate
to report any dangerous behavior.

  

FEB13 7013
- THE RING-TUM PHI -

  

2

IMASE--Eli~éGT{iN 8. EF.‘ Li'i.esiiii§s:1‘Y
LE);iix1GT0ll, VA 24450

 

MON DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

Making legal waves

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

5000
4500

G)

E 4000

£2

o

>-

+. 3500

C

M

.2

Ti 3000

CL

<:
2500
2000

2008

2009

Applicant volume to Washington and Lee Law 2008-2012. The top line represents actual applicants to W&L Law for the
ﬁve years (with a new 3L program introduced in 2009), while the bottom line represents Professor MoIiterno’s projection

4582

 

2010

for applicants had W&L not introduced its 3L program.

Washington and Lee Law garnered sig-
niﬁcant attention and respect in the legal
blogging world two weeks ago when
Indiana Law Professor Bill Henderson
deemed the law school “the biggest edu-
cation story of20l3.” .

At the end of January, Henderson post-
ed a comprehensive analysis of W&L
Law’s school survey known as the Law

School Survey of Student Engagement. _

According to Law Professor James Mo-
litemo, the survey was created and con-
ducted by Indiana University and com-
pleted by every W&L Law student.

According to wlu.edu, the LSSSE con-
sists of a series of 100 questions on an
array of topics. The questions focus on
information such as student-faculty in-
teraction, classroom environment, style
and number of exams and the extent to
which students feel prepared for the pro-
fessional world.

In his essay, Henderson said that the
W&L LSSSE showed substantial in-
creases both internally and externally
— W&L saw major improvement when
compared to its older school surveys, as
well as other top law programs through-
out the country.

As a result ofthese ﬁndings, Henderson
explained that for the ﬁrst time, there ex-
ists “empirical evidence that proves that
W&L is delivering a signiﬁcantly bet-
ter education to its [third year law] stu-
dents.” Henderson made such a distinc-
tion to third year students because the
structure of W&L’s law program during
the third year is quite different from other
law schools.

According to Molitemo, the ﬁrst two
years of law school at W&L are similar

   

tril m i

 Andreaioweni

$T”A‘FE-VIIRITER ,
“ ’_-‘A committee of ‘ four W&L professors
,‘.is'°preparing a possible ﬁlm'stu_dies mi-
%nor, for which a student poll will be re-

    
   
 

  

ftleaseii to ascertain interest. at A ‘ .

  “From many points of view, ﬁlm is the

. great‘,-‘art fonn .of?theJ20th century, and
 "e'.5are now in the 21st-century,” said
nglish Professor Edward Adams, who

   

  the ‘very few eh-tei‘sma1l_colleges I
‘-;'tliat“tioés not have a_ ﬁlm studies major
program or minor program.” I I
-15:. _ The ‘committee also consists of Andrea
 vep”ag’e;f‘rom theart history department,
Kathi‘ynfChenoweth from romance lan-
"l5jgx1a'g‘es,;‘and-Robeft .de Maria from jour-
P alisrnand masscommunications. 7 ;_ 0
“We have beenjstudying what isthe
i‘ \ est! and most feasible iijnodelforla ﬁlm
.',.§tudies minor atwashington and Lee,”
7,"¥s_aid?-Adams’. He said thatithetcommittee

 

   
  
   
  

o,th'er_usmalI colleges lilce'W&L have
_ ;,togéthe1;’under similar circumstanc-

  

 
 

 has few ﬁlm courses, theseiproduction
courses may, _'for now, include ,ones,1il<e* ~
photography, certain theaterc__ourses,”or' .
the_ screenwriting course which will (be I”

51;, af§paI"t:ofTthis conrmit-tee. “W&L is I

.-create the newminor was the iintroduc-2

if as been looking, at virhat ﬁlrnjprograms ’

 minor  -

to those of other schools. However, the
third year is centered on experiential
learning. It can be supplemented by one
traditional course during each semester if

the student would like to take that option.'

“In the W&L third year, every student
experiences the role of lawyer in clin-
ics, externships and elaborate simulation
courses such as immersions and practi-
cums,” Molitemo said.

Molitemo added . that at other law
schools, the third year curriculum simply
continues like the second year — students
choose elective courses throughout their
ﬁnal semesters in law school.

This differing third year structure is
fairly new to the law schools curriculum.
According to Molitemo, it was instituted
in 2009 and was originally optional.
Many students chose to participate and it
ofﬁcially became a requirement in 2011.
The LSSSE data have conﬁrmed that
students see a serious beneﬁt in the new
structure of3L.

“The data are striking. It reports sub-
stantial increase in third year student
engagement in their studies. They are
writing more, collaborating with other
students and faculty on projects more,
applying their learning to real world
problems more, engaging in more pub-
lic service and clinical experiences, and
they are more pleased with their educa-
tion than previous classes of W&L stu-
dents and their peers at other comparable
schools,” Moliterno said.

Henderson also highlighted other data
in his analysis that Molitemo presented
during a conference at the University of
Denver this past September.

During the Educating Tomorrow’s

most likely consist of six courses: an"
introductory course, a capst'one~course,'

4% I . ii

"Or I" t

3408

2080

2011 2012

Lawyers conference, Molitemo dis-
played a graph showing a large spike
in the number of applications received
by W&L Law in the last four years. The
graph compared W&L’s applicant pattern
with its new 3L curriculum, to its predict-
ed applicant pattern had the school not
changed the curriculum.

The graph shows that in 2010, with the
new curriculum, W&L received almost
two times the number of applications
that it would have received following the
traditional law school program.

Henderson wrote, “When many schools
are worried about revenues to survive
next year and the year after, ‘W&L is
worried about creating the bandwidth
needed to educate the surplus of students
who enrolled in the fall of 2012, and the
backlog of applicants whom the school
deferred to the fall of 2013.”

Molitemo said that he is conﬁdent fu-
ture surveys will continue to reflect the
same results as 2012.

Henderson acknowledged in his essay
that while the data are truly impressive,
there is of course, room for improve-
ment. However, Henderson emphasized
the point that W&L Law is at the fore-
front of legal learning and is a model
other schools should look after.

Concluding the narrative portion of his
analysis with a metaphor that cited W&L
as a Model-T and traditional law pro-
grams as horse-drawn buggies, Hender-
son said: “What ought to be plain to all of
us, however, is that, just like automobile
industry circa 1910, we are entering a
period of staggering transformation that
will last decades.”

 
     
 
   

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Tuberculosis outbreaks

Outbreaks of tuberculosis are on the rise in Africa, India and other develop-
ing countries. More than 400,000 people globally have developed a multidrug-
resistant fonn. On Tuesday, a report stated that this was due to the circulation of
fake or substandard drugs. Samples taken showed that many of the drugs given
out in these areas failed basic quality control tests.

Tech nocrat govt. pro

Hamdi Jebali, prime minister of Tunisia, put forth a proposal for an interim
government of technocrats. This proposal put him in opposition with his party,
Ennahda. In this time ofuncertainty for the nation Jebali believes this move will
be best for the state. He announced on Wednesday that if the proposal is not ac-
cepted, he will resign as prime minister.

Russian fighter jets in Japan

Japan’s foreign ministry reported on Thursday that two Russian ﬁghter jets
flew into Japanese airspace near Hakkaido. The Japanese had to quickly assem-
ble combat ﬁghters in response. The supposed intrusion took place in the middle
of Japanese rallies held for Northern Territories Day. Russia issued an oﬁicial
denial ofthe charge.

Camp Liberty attacked

Camp Liberty, a temporary transit camp in Baghdad, was attacked on Saturday.
The facility was being used to house Iranian exiles formerly living at Camp
Ashraf. Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general of the UN, condemned the mortar
attack and insisted on an investigation. Authorities are currently unsure who is
behind the attacks. ‘

Palestinianscamp in protest

In January, Palestinians began setting up tent camps in protest ofillegal Israeli
settlement plans in the E1 sector. The ﬁrst was a 24-tent camp outside of Jerusa-
lem and the second was just outside of Beit lksa. While Israeli forces removed
these camps, the activists continued to set up more camps on the West Bank.
Saturday marked the most recent destruction of these protest camps by Israeli
forces. Six people were arrested.

Opposition leader in Russia
arrested

Sergei Udaltsov, a prominent Russian opposition leader, was accused (along
with his group the Left Front) of provoking mass disorder to overthrow President
Putin. On Saturday a court in Moscow ruled to place him under house arrest for
two months. He will also not be allowed contact with family or lawyers during
this period. Udaltsov is denying all accusations. However, if found convicted of
all charges, he faces a ten-year prison sentence.

Conspirator against Indian
parliament arrested

Afzal Guru, a conspirator in an attack on the Indian parliament in 2001 that
killed at least nine people, was hanged for his involvement on Saturday. He
was originally sentenced to death in 2004 but the sentence was not carried out
until his mercy petition was rejected by the Indian president, Pranab Mukherjee.
Guru’s hanging is only the second to occur in India in almost a decade.

and four more courses distributed in  A if

three categories; additional ﬁlm courses,  1

visual culture courses and production ’
courses. ‘ ‘ ‘ “

Adams said that because W&L current__-  7 ‘

offered this spring term. .

Adams, who has been teaching film i

at W&L for years, said that one .or;m_e
things that prompted the initiative to,

tion of Professor Chenoweth. With both
Adams and Chenoweth able to teacli'the"

introductory ﬁlm course, now an ‘English ,
. course titled “Film,” the course may be  '

taught regularly. ’ .

He added that although there havebeen  . ‘ 

ﬁlm courses at W&L, having anfofﬁcial

“ minor may be beneﬁcial for various rea-
sons. ‘ .

“What I am hoping

is that ‘byghaving f A I

PFiDa'3' I. . CIT I('II;‘\l
l':|F~‘E7'L.".1Tf.‘.‘»R
'i?A‘.'iE RF‘.

£7! .t'«.T E SCI E N E

 

  

   

 

i

MON_DAY,

FEBRUARY 11, 2013

3 o

 

opinions

10 best ads of Su

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

If you’re like me, you look forward to the Super Bowl .every
year. Not because you’ve been following the teams throughout the
regular season, or because you have some deep-rooted sense of ap-
preciation for a game of this magnitude. In fact, if you’re like me,
you weren’t even 100% sure who was actually playing until about
ten minutes before the game started.

No, what you’re in it for is the commercials. _

_The Super Bowl is the most watched broadcast in America,
drawing an estimated l64.l million viewers this year—-that’s more
than any other game in Super Bowl history. It’s no wonder, then,
that running an ad during the game will set someone back $3.5 mil-
lion for every 30 seconds bought. For that kind of a price tag, and
with that size of an audience in mind, companies scramble each
year to make sure that their ad will be the most memorable. Such is
the competitive mindset that- has brought us the likes of Alec Bald-
win as an alien, Kim Kardashian mid-work—out, Mean Joe Greene
downing a kid’s Coke, and Betty White playing tackle football.

This year was no exception. The ads that ran during Super Bowl
}(LVII were alternatingly touching and hilarious, offering viewers

. {everything from an answer to the question “Where do babies come
I ‘ from?” to a miracle stain in the shape ofloe Montana. Here are the

top ten for 2013:

/\

A tribute to farmers everywhere, this commercial ﬁnds Paul Har-
vey giving a sermon about the eighth day ofcreation. “On the eighth
day," he says, “God looked down on his planned paradise and said,
‘I need a caretaker.‘ So God made a farmer." A testament to the bru-
tal work that farmers undertake day in and day out. this ad was less
about the truck and more about appreciating those who break their
backs to feed the nation. But maybe that’s a good thing-

5. Jeep Whole Again

 

Oprah Winfrey narrates this touching ad, which speaks to the.

men and women returning home from war. I held it together until
the very end, when a mother in fatigues hugs her daughter as Win-
frey attests, “Because when you’re home, we are more than a fam-
ily. We are a nation that is whole again.”

This coi11ntercialivvas hilarious for one reason: after a man spills
salsa on l1is_ier§ey and becomes the center ofattention in the sports
world whe‘n the stain bears the face ofloe Montana. he goes looking
for the jersey one day only to ﬁnd that it is no longer framed above
the mantle. When he asks his wife where thejersey went, she replies

nonchalantly that it had a stain on it. so she washed it. Then, with a ‘

. sly grin at the camera. she whispers. “Go Ravens.“

]. Budweiser Brotherhood

‘T .

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

The creators of this ad may be able to retire early—their work is
pure genius. A boy is playing with his football in a park, when the
neighborhood bullies steal the ball and challenge him to come back
only when he has a team. Instead of backing down, the boy shrugs
and goes to collect his teammates. His mother, driving her Hyundai,
picks up quite the cast of characters: a set of twins lifting weights, a
boy working in his father’s welding shop, another wrestling a griz-
zly, and ﬁnally a boy walking out of a burning building while carry-
ing a middle-aged» man to safety.

6. Doritos FashionistaDaddy

If you‘re a guy in your forties, you‘vevgot to really love Doritos
to blow offa pick-up game with your buddies and dress up in a pink
feather boa and tiara in order to snag some chips from your daugh-
ter. That‘s exactly what the father in this charming commercial did.
donning a full-blown makeover and pirouctting around his daugh-
ter‘s tea party while munching on his favorite snack. By the end. he
had all of his friends dancing right along with him.

§.

9. Kia Space Babies

 

“Daddy, where do babies come from?” It’s the question that par-
ents dread. But if you’re aparent that drives a Kia, the answer is
easy: they come from a planet ﬁlled with babies of all kinds, includ-
ing pandas and pigs, who are launched into space in a rocket ship
and sent to Earth to be with new families. It's pretty obvious that
Kia was going for the cute factor here, but if it works, it works‘,

 

' big thing,

per Bowl   

. a dozen times.

On his way home, a man eating Doritos spots a sign that reads
“Goat 4 Sale." You can almost see his thought process: Why not?
The man and the goat seem to live in Dorito heaven for a while, hap-
pily snacking on a few of the hundreds of bags of Doritos that are
kept in the house. It isn‘t long, though. until the idea of sharing his
chips drives the man to put the goat up for sale again. The closing
frame is ofthe goat cornering the man in his bedroom, looking none
too happy about the decision. I



Willem Dafoe plays Satan in this minute-long commercial. De-
spite the short timespan, this ad has the story arch and star-power of
a Hollywood hit. A man can buy a Mercedes car, and suddenly he’s
rubbing elbows with supermodels and singers such as Kate Upton
and Usher. Set to the music of the Rolling Stones, this commercial
appealed to men of all ages.

Featuring Seth Rogen and Paul Rudd, this ad ﬁnds the two actors
bickering about who is the “Next Big Thing” after discovering that
they are being cast in the same commercial. At one point, Rogcn
turns to Rudd and says, “Maybe in, like.” 1998 youwere the next
“ to which Rudd replies, “You make people physically
uncomfortable." lt‘s Judd Apatow-style humor at its best.

  

THE RING-TUM PHI °

Hands down the year’s favorite Super Bowl commercial, this
ad features Budweiser’s newest foal, Hope. I don’t think that any-
one can watch this commercial without tearing up. It starts with
a young horse being cared for by his owner, the two of whom
become friends as the years pass and the horse grows. Eventually,
the Budweiser truck comes and takes the horse to join the other
Clydesdales belonging to the company. Three years later, the man
goes to see his old friend in the Budweiser parade as it passes
through Chicago. Initially, it seems as though the horse doesn’t re-
member him, as it walks past without a second glance. At .the end,
though, the horse looks back and sees the man, and sprints over
‘to give a silent greeting which breaks the heart. Set to the back-
ground of Fleetwood Mac’s “Landslide,” this ad is worth watching

   

4 0 THE RING—TUM PHI '

M O N DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

 

  opinions

 

 

The Constitution in review

By Annelise Madison
c u ssr w RITE R

In March, the student body will vote
on amendments to the Washington and
Lee University Student Body Constitu-
tion proposed by the 2012-20l3 Consti-
tutional Review Committee (CRC). The
CRC drafted these amendments based
on feedback from students and faculty
members. As Chairman of the CRC, it
is my duty to inform the student body
of the substantive amendments that may
be brought to a vote in March so that

we can collectively make an informed ,

decision about whether to accept or re-
ject them. Proposed substantive amend-

]. Duties of E C

- Specifying what constitutes “EC
approval” in clauses of the Constitution
that do not currently do so.

° Requiring the Executive Commit-
tee to, by a majority vote, appoint one of
its representatives to help oversee bud-
geting allocations along with the Vice
President and one representative to help
oversee committee appointments with
the Secretary.

- Requiring the EC to notify the
Student Body with justiﬁcation for in-
creasing the Student Activity Fee by

ments include:

 

 Twitter @berkysfood

emu/a cw‘ LEE III

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, 8; Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online

 Find us on Face book

WASHINGTON AND In Umvazsm

THE RING-

TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
,ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

‘JANEY FUGATE

LIONATHAN SELLS

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA .I. KORASH-SCHIFF

LINDSEY BURKE

LEAH GO.SE

HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
PAT MCCARRON
ANDREA OWEN

ANNELISE MADISON
TYSON JANNEY

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS

 

greater than ﬁve percent from the previ-
ous year.

- Specifying that the Student Body
Secretary must post the record of Stu-
dent Body and EC meetings within two
weeks of each meeting, excluding aca-
demic breaks

° Requiring the Student Body Secre-
tary to publically post a tentative agenda
for the weekly EC meeting at least 24
hours prior to the scheduled meeting,
after consulting with the Student Body
President.

- Stipulating that the EC may, upon
proposal of any EC member, enter into
Executive Session.

- Stipulating that the EC has the
power to remove any of its members for
continual non-attendance, as deﬁned by
three unexcused absences. ,

- Striking out the requirement that
the incoming President of the Executive
Committee must appoint standing and
special committees by June 1 of each
yean

2. Clarifying the
Structure of
Government

Splitting current “Duties of EC” Ar-
ticle into two articles: “The Legislative
Branch” and “The Judicial Branch.” The
Judicial Branch Article would include
clauses on the jurisdiction, composition,
and procedures of the SFHB, S] C, UBA,
and EC. ‘

3, Add “Student
Rights ”Article

- The right to due process if accused
of misconduct that is under the jurisdic-
tion ofthe EC, SFHB, or SJC.

- The right to at least one honor ad-
vocate if accused of misconduct that is
under the jurisdiction of the EC, SFHB,
or SJC.

- The right to appeal an EC decision
to the Student Body and to appeal a SJC
or SFHB decision to the UBA.

- The right to equitable and unbiased

L

 

consideration under the rules and proce-
dures of student governing institutions.

- The right to vote in Student Body
elections, even if studying abroad during
an election.

- The right to appear before stu-
dent governing institutions with any
matter of interest or concern.

4. Reworde
Preamble

“This Constitution is the
expression of a self—govem-
ing Student Body and is the
foundation of its government
by providing the overarching
framework for its mainte-
nance. Every student body
member shall adhere to /-
these provisions and
applicable Univer-
sity policy. ,

It is the intent
of the framers of \
this Constitution to
present an instrument
devoid of complexity, which
shall promote the interests of all, shall
represent a means of settlement of all
affairs that concern the Student Body
or any part thereof, and shall be inter-
preted and administered by the Execu-
tive Committee of the Student Body to
the advancement of the best interests
of Washington and Lee University stu-
dents.”

5. Miscellaneous

' Adding the words “to uphold the.
Student Body Constitution” to the oath
of ofﬁce for Student Body officers.

- Requiring all elected officials, rath-
er than only EC members, to take the
oath of office. i .

- Eliminating the office of First-Year
Class President.

~ Eliminating the Media Board.

- Requiring the Constitutional Re-
view Committee to convene every three
years.

- Including the duties and purpose of

/ j 


    
  
 

the
Voting Regulations Board in the Consti-
tution.

- Changing all mentions of
“Freshman” to “F irst-Year.”

- Eliminating the requirement that
the SBA make a proposal in. the spring of
each academic year for necessary money
to operate from August 15 until the end
of September.

To see a copy of the current Student
Body Constitution, please visit the EC
website. Members of the CRC will pub-
lish articles in future additions of the Phi
explaining the justiﬁcation for and im-
portance of some of these amendments.
The CRC will also host two town-hall
meetings on February 28, one at the
Northen Auditorium at 7:00pm and one
at the Moot Court Room at 8:30pm.
Contact Annelise Madison (madiso-
nal4@mail.wlu.edu) with any feedback,

, questions, or concerns.

MICHAEL DONNELLAN

KANE THOMAS

to the edior 

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that

" prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published _Mon_days during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board. which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising'do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

A very real debate rages across the
United States, and indeed across the
globe, about homosexuality and its place
in the culture. It is a large and, in some
cases, very complex argument about the
nature of family, morality, and sexual-
ity. Whilel do have my own opinions on
the issue, I want to look at the usage of a
very speciﬁc word: “homophobia.” This
increasingly common word both insults
and marginalizes those who object to
homosexuality (for any reason), and is
ultimately harmful to rational discussion
about the issue.

The insult of the word “homophobia”
lies, of course, in the “phobia.” Phobias
are generally either completely irrational
(such as agoraphobia, the fear of wide-
open spaces) or induce fear far out of

proportion to the actual danger involved '

(such as “germophobia,” being unreason-
ably terriﬁed of germs). To label someone
who disapproves of homosexuality as a
“homophobe” implies an irrational fear,

a gut reaction to homosexuality with

little-to-no basis in reality. I think it’s fair
to say that almost no opponent of homo-
sexuality, from the most frothing, ignorant
and hateful to the most intellectual, quiet
and reasonable, experiences some sort
of panic attack when confronted with
homosexuality. The disapproval might be
moral, religious, intellectual, or cultural,
but realistically it almost never has‘ any
basis on physical revulsion. The label of
“homophobe” implies that an opponent
of homosexuality is somehow inferior;
that they haven’t mastered their childish
fears and unreasonable worries. It proﬁts
neither side in the debate to take such a
condescending stance towards the other.
The word “homophobia” also mar-
ginalizes opponents of homosexuality,
merely by its existence. A recent Pew poll
claimed that 49% of Americans polled
were in favor of gay marriage, while
40% opposed (the issue of gay marriage
is separate from a moral opposition to
homosexuality, but the statistic is a good
benchmark). Clearly there remains a very

large portion of the population that does
not approve of homosexuality. “Homo-
phobe” implies a tripartite distinction in
the debate over homosexuality: 1) homo-
sexuals themselves 2) “homophobes” and
3) everyone else. Instead of almost half of
the population, those who disapprove of -
homosexuality have become an out-group:
a strange, hateful holdout baring its teeth
as the rest of the “normal people” move
on. “All the sane, well-balanced people,”
the word implies, “are ﬁne with homo-
sexuality. Except for those ‘homophobes’
who can’t stand it.”

The national discussion over homosex-

uality is far too important for insults, jeers L

and condescension to muddy the issue. I
urge people from all sides of the debate
to remove this word from their active vo-

‘cabulary. It serves only to alienate, which
_ will achieve nothing positive.

-Tyson J anney
Class of 2013

 

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11,2013

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&Iife

Women learn all about ﬁnance

By Lindsey Burke
STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s female stu-
dents in “Women in Finance” are leam-
ing the secrets to safe investments and
keys to ﬁnancial success.

Women in Finance is a student-run
organization that started this winter.
Sophomores Garland Neal and Emma
Busse, and junior Emily Hudson are the
club’s founders.

The group’s main objective is “to em-
power W&L women to make sound in-
vestment and ﬁnancial decisions through
a series of informative presentations,”
according to the founders.

Despite its recent creation, the club
already has 30 active members, many of
whom are Williams School of Commerce
(C-School) majors. However, the club is
not limited to C-School majors. These
women are netted together through their
passionate interest in learning how to
manage their present and future ﬁnances.

Topics of meetings are varied and can
range from paying taxes to buying your
ﬁrst home. .

“We try to ﬁll in the topics that aren’t
necessarily covered in our undergradu-
ate education,” said Neal. “The goal of
‘Women in Finance’ is to try to prepare
women for life after graduation.”

For Neal, starting this organization
was more than just ﬁlling out a piece
of paper. While she initially intended to
extend a national investment education
program, “Smart Women Securities,” to
W&L, Neal found it unﬁtting for W&L’s
campus.

With some aid from Dean Jensen,
Neal got “Women in Finance” on cam-
pus. However, according to her, promot-
ing the program and creating an image
was the hardest part of the process.

“1t’s been really rewarding to be able
to have this idea and do all of the leg
work, then see it develop,” said Neal. “I
hope that this is the beginning of some-
thing that will last even after I graduate.”

She, along with her fellow founders,
worked to create a syllabus of ﬁnancial
topics. They arranged the program’s
schedule after brainstorming ﬁnancial
concerns that had not yet been addressed
in any of their classes, said Neal.

In addition to the beneﬁt of learning

 By Leah Gose
' STAFF warren I

  

how to self-regulate ﬁnancial decisions,
“Women in Finance” allows undergrad-
uate women to network. Almost every
meeting, a presenter, often a W&L alum,
comes to speak to the group.

“I hope that our members not only
create relationships with other members
but also make connections and establish
mentor relationships with alumni,” said
Neal.

The ﬁrst meeting started with Laura



Steuart ’97, an Associate Broker at
Washington Fine Properties. Future
meetings will include talks from Sarah
Ann Knier ’01 of Barclay’s Capital and
a Skype session with Sarah Miller ’ll
of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey in At-
lanta.

‘“Women in Finance’ is a great op-
portunity to learn about ﬁnance from
women who are actually out in the world
and successﬁilly don h tthev eniov,”

said sophomore member Sarah Morgan.
“One of our speakers, Laura Steuart, is a
residential real estate agent in DC, and
after her presentation I think about half
of us were considering going into real
estate!”

Meetings are held every Thursday
evening. Applications are required to
join the program, and qualiﬁcations in-
clude a genuine interest in the club and
willingness to contribute in meetings,

according to Neal.

Next tall, Neal wants to expand the
topics of the sessions and hopefully in-
corporate an investment competition,
possibly involving a charitable aspect.

Said Neal, “We want to make it fun
and competitive so we can apply what
we’ve learned to a real life situation.”

Laura Steuart ‘97, Associate Broker at Washington Fine Properties, describes her job in the financial world during the very first meet-
ing of the “Women in Finance” club last Thursday. The organization, founded by three female students, aims to create an environment
where young women can make informed investment and financial decisions, by attending weekly presentations and talks.

   
 
 

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
  
   

 
 
 
 

u ve.,f9rg0ttengabout.’ '

      
   
     

 
   

 
   
  

    

widéfrstandgno i<'j>h.é¢ha$ verfhearil I
_,,F,_ _ .  . .  .,

‘ will not  yourday. The restau‘--
« rants are booked’ and the candy is‘
 sold out. Instead ’of_chastis,ingv you
;  (like your‘ signiﬁcant Lo_ther_ prob-' ’, 
7-Jajbly will), I}ami.suggesting ﬁve-:  _
ways ‘to spend ip‘,\{a1qen‘tine’sI Day on  _. 3 
tile ﬂy or‘fOn}ajbudget.V  if c I‘ ' ‘

   

 
 

I ’-.f1Iif{'y§u’ve. gmsiy

  to  Wendy . or, .
  '1 value-meal ‘splurge

A  name? ygumaom M
tral.” Hit thevending machines for
‘ some sweet-candy and soda pop

U ' for ottein-ial-ll abﬁ'(?iut’i’_: _ I , . , .
',Va1gem-inéés Da‘y:;d“e.,_.’.gt_1clean‘break. Yes, you .11 probably
.  an r
 
A  g .Tak¢y0ursQmeb9 y.

    

    
  
  
  
   

      
  
 

Waimart’et@—itI6l1]’tlie' . . ‘_ I
' * ” :98c'e1'1t .bi_ns,;»./or the ~
 Sig-op‘ tov,’3-enjoy.jor,ie;;

 

  WT Here ’s

I I Go ‘dorm-hall ‘ i

' H “shopping”

. for Ipillows
  - yQu_~;can bor-
iO“I~7roW and re-
-“Snuggle Cen-

 

and y‘o’u_’ve, got ourself a medio-

 yeti:possiblfsuccessful. eve-

. ‘Y’, ,

Just break
up with your

e signiﬁcant
 , other. If
- “ i V '0 _ you’ve been
ingiabout doing so, ‘and you
forgot .Valentine3sj Day, you really
can’t ﬁnda better way to make a

  
  

 
  

more socially ostrac.ized than
jTigf'er.;,Woods,3 but nothing says
‘‘It’s ’] like a “We Need ‘2 Tlk”
tefctvn V-"Day-I ”  - .

A [Findj a ‘calendar
for next Vyearon
. ._:W0rd.an-d change
vtlite ‘year. to 2013.

l’rint , the sucker V

.Are you the
conﬁdent
(yet still for-
getful) type?
If so, pull a
Joh Cusack and grab an over-
sized raincoat and a boom box.
Serenade your crush (and the rest
of the quad) with a Taylor Swift
song. And nobody knows true love

 

 
     
  
  
      
  
  
 
       

how to (not) celebrate this special 

   

 

better than serial-dater Taylorher
self. _

A; no matter what I yo
choose to do for Valentinefs
Day, I wish you the best of luck.»
May the odds be ever in youiji
vor. A

  
  
  
  
    
 
        
   
    
    
 
   
       

  

  

6 ' THE RAING-TUM PHI -

arts&life

 

MONDAY,

Still-lifes come to life in

By Janey Fugate
STAFF WRITER

Anita Dawson’s collection of acrylic
paintings in Holekamp Hall is at ﬁrst
glance underwhelming. Fairly tradi-
tional still-lifes generally do not excite
the modern viewer, let alone your aver-
age college student. Beginning with the
sultry wine reds and rich browns typi-
cal of still lifes, the pieces’ alignment
moves the viewer around the room to a
fresher green sequence facing the dark
paintings hanging on the opposite wall.
Knives, bowls, books, fruit, insects and
hydrangeas are among the repeated im-
ages that, combined with a particular
style, give the collection an easily rec-
ognizable unity, if not vigor or energy.

But art is never meant to be glanced
at, and as the co|lection’s title “Emblem-
atic Objects” so pointedly implies, the
paintings’ signiﬁcance lies in the depth
of symbolism the chosen images allude
to. If these objects, most being common

subjects of still lifes, are emblematic,
what are they symbolizing?

There is a certain subtle strange-
ness to some of Dawson’s paintings that
may shed light on this question. Part of
this comes from the way she plays with

  
 
 

open book has an illustration ofa crow
perched on a slim branch. With its beak
open and body stretching towards the
bowl, the bird appears to be leaning out
of its page to‘ peck at the plums just out
of reach. This peculiar placement con-

fuses our conception of proper spatial
dimensions and imbues the simple still
life with a slightly surreal feel.
Similarly, in another painting, berry
branches stitched on a pillow seem to
protrude out and morph into real branch-

   
  
     
   
     
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
    

Spatial F€-  es stretching
lationships. ., over another
The second  bow] of
painting, if, fruit. This
one walks . curiosity
Cpuh(t€T- . is perhaps
c oc wise meant to al-
around the lude to the
f00m, d€- stranger ele-
picts a bowl ments of the
of purple rest of the
plums sit- collection.
ting on an A5 I see
open book. it, the bird
The left illustration
page of the and the ber-

  
  

«Objects»

ry branch connect the other inanimate
objects in the painting to each other.
This gives a certain life to the book and
adds the element of relationship to the
painting. Relationship in the sense that
the inanimate object is shown to be in-
teracting with another inanimate object.
Perhaps this is emblematic of the con-
nectedness of the assortment of objects
in the paintings.

The ﬁeur-de-lis stitched on the nap-
kin is a symbol of power and prestige.
Books represent knowledge; the shiny
knives and ripe fruits in silver bowls
allude to wealth. Perhaps these objects
juxtaposed with the wilder images, such
as the birds or striped beetle crawling
over the books or the lizard hint at a
certain connection between such items
loaded with human signiﬁcance and oth-
er natural, simple beings that share the

same space.

 

Students, professors, and community members
came together at the annual Lunar New Year Cele-
bration to usher in the year ofthe snake last Thursday
in the Commons Living Room. Hosted by PAACE,
SAIL, and the Department of East Asian Languag-
es and Literatures, the evening featured a variety
of songs and dances presented by different groups.
From the third-year Chinese students,’ take on the
popular “Gangnam Style” hit to the Nolza Crew’s
lively K-pop performance, the event spanned across
a wide range ofAsian cultures and languages. High-
lights included a special brush-painting demonstra-
tion, a spirited rendition of Mulan’s “l Will Make
a Man Out of You,” and a student’s study abroad
memories from Japan. The night ended with a feast
of Chinese food, as the entire community gathered
to reminisce, reﬂect, and rejoice on a successful eve-
ning, and the many more that lay ahead in the days to
come. ‘Happy Chinese New Year!

C By Cynthia Lam
A&L EDITOR

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

FEBRUARY 11, 2013

  
  

 

  

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

Catching up with C

. By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University’s As-
sistant Golf Coach Jonathan Bowden,
coaching in his ﬁrst year at the colle-
giate level, values his role as mentor.

Before arriving in Lexington, Coach
Bowden spent much of his time helping
to develop young golfers in his home
state of South Carolina. A couple of
weekends each month, Coach Bowden
coached young girls ages 7 to 16 for the

. LPGA-USGA of Greenville.

“It was a good opportunity to help the
community and to coach and mentor.
I wanted any experience I could do to
get into coaching and I took a lot from
the different positions [I’ve coached
fro'm],” explained Coach Bowden.

Bowden also coached for his high
school alma mater in 2010. Through
this experience, he learned the skills of
coaching golf while also recognizing
the commitment required.

“It was neat getting to coach where I
played high school golf. We had suc-

z

 cessful teams and to coach under my old

coachrl learned a lot. I took a lot from
it. I looked back and appreciated the
amount of time he played with us,” said
Coach Bowden, about his experience.
Last year, Bowden and his brother
created Bowden Brothers Golf, a lo-
cal company that helped junior golfers
in South Carolina to contact college
coaches, build their resumes and orga-
_nize golﬁng schedules all in an effort to
enhance each player’s game and ﬁiture

. prospects.

     

3

But things changed. Bowden’s brother
joined the PGA, and Coach Bowden
took his current job as W&L’s Assistant
Golf Coach. Coach Bowden hopes one
day to restart the company.

“lt’s something we wanted to do in
the future, but there’s other opportuni-
ties for now. It was a viable source of
income and good for the community,”
explained Coach Bowden.

Now after years of mentoring young-
er golfers, Coach Bowden is at W&L
with a wealth of knowledge, both from
a coach’s and a player’s standpoint.
Coach Bowden teaches that short cuts
are not the roots for good golf—espe-
cially from a coach.

“I’ve played with a lot of good play-
ers, shot some good scores, and I try to
apply those things in a way that I can
show my players what the entire pack-
age needs to be. Some coaches use
‘Band-Aids.’ I like to give my players
an outline,” said Coach Bowden.

Though now away from his home-
town where he served his community
by teaching golf, Coach Bowden has
brought those same ideals to Lexington.

“I ‘feel like I have a gift in terms of
mentoring, coaching and teaching with-
in the game of golf,” said Bowden. “I
try to use the knowledge I have that oth-
ers don’t, and I want to peruse [coach-
ing] and see where it goes.”

'. Hg,

 

V

tloach Jonathan Bowden I . I

Courtesy of W&L Sports lnformatlo

Courtesy of W&L Sports
Information

.&L n’s hoops falls

LYNCHBURG, Va. — Randolph senior
guard Colton Hunt paced four players in
double ﬁgures with 17 points as the Wild-
Cats defeated Washington and Lee for the
ﬁfth straight time, claiming a 64-59 ODAC
men’s basketball victory on Saturday at the
RAD Center.

W&L (1 1-12, 6-8) grabbed its ﬁrst lead of
the game at the 9:52 mark of the ﬁrst half
as ﬁrst-year forward Andrew Franz (Char-
lotte, N.C. / Ravenscroft) nailed a three-
pointer to give the Generals a 20-19 lead.
Randolph used an 8-0 run, featuring ﬁve
points by Hunt, to push back out to a 27-20
lead at the 8:19 mark en route to posting a
34-30 lead at the break. I

The Generals knotted the game at 41-41
with 13:49 remaining on a Franz layup, but
the WildCats reclaimed the lead the next
time down the ﬁoor on a three-pointer by
ﬁrst-year guard Corey Brown and never
trailed again. W&L remained within a
single possession of tying the game until
back-to-back jumpers by junior guard Mike
Ehilegbu and Hunt gave RC a seven-point
lead (57-50) with 5:54 to play. The Gener-
als sliced it to a ﬁve-point gametwice in
the ﬁnal 2:54 but could get no closer as

the WildCats improved to 19-4 overall and
10-4 in the ODAC.

Washington and Lee shot 47.1 percent
(24-51) from the ﬂoor and committed just
ll turnovers in the contest. The Generals
were led by Franz, who scored 17 points
and grabbed seven rebounds. Sophomore
guard Javon McDonald (Schaumburg, Ill. /
Schaumburg) tallied 14 points, while soph-
omore forward Patrick O’Connor (Rich-
mond, Va. / Douglas Freeman) notched
12 points and grabbed ﬁve boards. Senior
forward J.D. Ey (Charlotte, N.C. / Myers
Park) chipped in six points, eight rebounds
and a career-high 11 assists.

Randolph also shot 24-of-51 (.471) from
the ﬁoor and also committed just ll tum-.
overs. However, the WildCats knocked
down 9-of-22 (.409) attempts from be-
yond the arc. Hunt grabbed 13 rebounds
to go with his 17 points, while Ehilegbu
notched 16 points on'6-of-9 shooting, in-
cluding 3-of-4 from distance. Brown and
senior center Chris Battaglia both added 14
points.

Washington and Lee returns to action
on Wednesday when it travels to Roanoke
College for a 7:00 pm contest.

 ,,_.  ,....~

Sophomore Patrick 0’Connor defends the ball against Lynchburg '

Courtesy of W&L Sports Informatlon

ports  

Oaeh Bowden Does

  Flacco

deserve

the big
bucks?

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Baltimore‘ Ravens are the NFL
Champions. They played a relatively con-
sistent season and then turned it on during
the playoffs. They beat teams led by future
Hall of Famers and some of today‘s most
feared quarterbacks, Peyton Manning and
Tom Brady. They also beat two of the fu-
ture star quarterbacks, Andrew Luck and
Colin Kaepernick. But where does Joe
Flacco play into the rankings of quarter-
backs?

This was the last year of Flacco’s contract
and he needed to make a statement after
four years of relative inconsistency and his
claims of being an “elite" quarterback. ‘He
did what he needed to do. and won the Su-
per Bowl MVP trophy. But now Baltimore
is faced with a whole new issue... how
much is Flacco really worth? Not nearly as
much as he claims to be.

Following the Ravens Super Bowl win.
Flacco’s agent Joe Linta said that because
Flacco won the MVP, he deserves to be the
highest paid quarterback in the NFL. And
I‘m sorry but he is not even close to be-
ing worth as much as Tom Brady or Peyton
Manning. Flacco had an impressive post-
season, there’s no denying that. but he was
not the driving force behind the Ravens‘
win. His throws were otftarget, constantly
being over and under thrown. I think the
wide outs deserve a lot more credit than
they are getting. Torrey Smith and Anquan
Boldin had some impressive catches dur-
ing their Super Bowl win. Not to mention
the fact that while not as impressive as they
once were, the defense played a solid game.

During a conversation about Flacco‘s
worthiness with my mother she compared
him to the Giants’ Phil Simms during the
eighties. They are solid players. with fan-
tastic receivers. and a great defense, but by
no means the best in their league. While
players like Brady and Manning have
proved that the quarterback can drive their
team to a Super Bowl win. this was deli-
nitely not the case this season.

Flacco deserves a nice contract from the
Ravens, and General Manager Ozzie New-
some is conﬁdent that they will be able to
come to an agreement with Flacco and his
agent. I believe that they will come to an
agreement. and I believe that Flacco de-
serves the contract ofa top ten quarterback.
ljust hope that they don‘t give him money
that he doesn't deserve.

 
  

andolph

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013

sports

 

I 
' \..¥5ll' 

in the numbers
5

The total number of overtimes in the men’s basketball
game between No. 11 Louisville and No. 25 Notre Dame. It
was the longest regular season game in Big East history.-

The Fighting Irish came out on top 104-101.

3

The number of games in a row that the University of Kansas
men’s basketball team, ranked number five in the country,
has lost. They lost to Oklahoma 72-66 on Saturday. The Jay-

hawks lost to Oklahoma State and TCU earlier in the week.

31.3

The shooting percentage of the Kansas State Wildcats in
their game versus the Syracuse Orange in the second round
of the NCAA tournament. The Wildcats went 21-67 from the

field while losing to the Orange 75-59.

soapbox

 

Swimmers

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Generals across the pool have been entering
the school, and conference, record books.

In the ﬁrst two days of competition at the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships, Washington and Lee has set six
school records en route to a commanding lead.

After Day 2 of competition, W&L had ac-
cumulated 653 points. Randolph-Macon,
the second place team, had just 356 points.
Bridgewater was third with 283 points.

Along with six school records, the Gener-
als have recorded three championship meet
records and two conference records.

On Friday the Generals set records in the
200 individual medley and the 200 free relay.

First-year Emma Swabb swam the 200 [M
in 2:09.93 to win the event and enter the re-

 

 - «{§:~.-"ta 
I W  
‘Q
.1 - ,
f‘  ‘ll.
_ ’,,;.r '1.
 " ,_ »   e, we:
 "“ :4 :’*‘'.*’'°‘ - r

A General competing in freestyle
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

«I -I.

cord books.

Swabb was also a part ofthe second record-
setting performance of the day. Senior Izzy
Brassﬁeld, junior Meredith Hardy and ﬁrst-
year Sarah Schaffer joined her in the 200
free relay. Their time of_l:37.15 took home
the victory, and the ODAC and championship
meet records.

Saturday saw more records for Generals

Swabb broke her third school record of the
meet in the 400 individual medley. Her time
of 4:40.25 easily broke the old record of.
4:43I68 set back in 2002.

The Generals broke another ODAC and
meet record in the 200 medley relay. The team
of Brassfield, sophomore Caroline Hamp,
Schaffer and fellow ﬁrst-year Stephanie Fos-

 

 

ter swam a time of 1:48.11 for the victory.
Hamp broke a meet record in the 100 ﬂy.

She broke her own school record from last

year by almost half of a second with a time

set sixrecords

1

of58.52. v '

Hardy swam the'200 free in 1:55.73 fo
another school record and another Generals
event-win.

Championship competition ﬁnished up on
Sunday for the Generals. Qualifying athletes
will compete at the Div. 111 National Cham-
pionships in March. For the others it was the
last meet ofthe season.

 

 

“It was awesome, something I ’II remember
forever, and I’m sure a lot of people will. ”

-WboonsInbaskatballplqyarBenBmst. Bnrsthltahalll
courtshotInﬂiellnalseoorldsofd)elrmnlowisusNo.3
Mlchlgantoforoethemmelnlnoverume. Wisconsin won
theame66-62,,1lomESPN.oom

“Every day improves and increases the
conﬁdence for me. Every day that the knee
answers well is a lot of positive energy for
me, and that's helping me a lot. The feeling
day by day is better —— the feeling on court.”

-RaI'aelNadaIaflnrmal<lngthellnalsln bolhtheslndes
anddoublescompeﬂuonat 1heVTROpenInchIle.Befora
1hetnumamentNadal hadmtplqyedforsavan months,from
ESPN.com

Athlete of the Week

First-year swimmer
Emma Swabb has been a
part ofthree new school
records this weekend
at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference
championships. She
broke the 400 IM and
the 200 IM records, and
g was a part of the 200
free relay that broke the

  

a 64-56 decisionto Hollins

Courtesy of W&L Sports
Information

LEXINGTON, Va. — Hollins University
used a 14-3 run midway through the second
halfto pull away for a 64-56 win over Wash-
ington and Lee in ODAC women’s basketball
action on Saturday afternoon at the Warner
Center.

The game was nip-and-tuck for the ﬁrst
30 minutes, featuring 14 ties and four lead
changes before HU’s run gave it the game’s
largest lead with 7:27 remaining.

The Generals (8-14, 5-9) held a 46-43 lead
with 11:06 left after a three-pointer by ﬁrst-
year guard Paige Corvino (Clarendon Hills,
Ill./Fenwick). Hollins (8-14, 4-10) senior
guard Lacie Forrest (Richmond, Va./Mead-

  

 .   a  
.0-
  € as  3
 f ' 2 I

)

bounds. Junior forward Chanci Wright (Eden, points on 5-of-6 shooting.
Texas/Eden) notched 10 points and 17 boards", Washington and Lee returns to action on.
and ﬁrst-year forward Alexa Smith (Barbo- Wednesday when it travels to Randolph for a
ursville, Va./William Monroe) recorded 10 7:00 pm contest.
l’5l(-¢&5.<9ii.‘=’::¢4»\',“ : -"i

O

owbrook) matched the triple with one of her
own 18 seconds later to begin the decisive
run. Forrest followed her three-pointer with
a jumper the next time down the floor for a
48-46 lead and sophomore forward Lauren
Hays (Saginaw, Texas/Boswell) hit a jumper
to extend the lead to 50-46.

W&L ﬁrst-year forward Shelbi Hendricks
(Louisville, Ky./Kentucky Country Day)
nailed a triple of her own to cut the HU lead
back to one point (50-49), but Forrest canned
another three-pointer and added a jumper at
the 7:27 mark to cap the run and give Hollins
a 57-49 lead. _

The Generals trimmed their deﬁcit to three
points (59-56) following a jumper by senior
guard Megan Marks (Oxford, Ohio/Talawa-
nda) with 1:41 left but could get no closer as
HU claimed its fourth straight win over W&L.

As a team, the Generals shot just 32.8 per-
cent (21-64) from the ﬂoor and were out-re-
bounded 48-28. Senior forward Katy Wilson
(Chattanooga, Tenn./Baylor) led W&L with
16 points, six rebounds, three assists and three
steals, while Warrick added 13 points. Marks
chipped in 11 points and Hendricks posted
nine points.

Hollins shot 46.6 percent (27-58) from the

  

  

v v‘ v-M-v—s~rr=s 

   

 

 

recordo floor and claimed 16 offensive rebounds lead- ,
111% ‘O '6 5eC°“d'°h3“°€ I’°1“t5- Forrest ﬁn‘ Megan Marks drives to the hoop against Lynchburg
ished with a game-high 21 points and nine re- courtesy of W&L sports mformation
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday _ Friday Saturday Sunday

Men’s Basketball

at Roanoke 7 pm

vs Shenandoah 2 pm

Women’s Basketball

at Randolph 7 pm

vs Shenandoah 4 pm

Men’s Lacrosse

vs Ferrum 5 pm

at CNU 3 pm

Riding

at Bridgewater

Men’s Swimming

Bluegrass Champs

Bluegrass Champs Bluegrass Champs

Bluegrass Champs

Men’s Tennis

at Elon 1:30 pm

Women’s Tennis

vs Radford 3 pm

Track

VMI Winter Relays

Wrestling atUrsinus11am r

 

