 

  

 camp“: gowrﬁmgarowthc resemblance?
 We did! Here’s your look at some   A

celebrity dopplegangers wandering  

around campus. I
- - A&L / page 5

WAsrHNGToNi}ii\io LEE UNIVERSITY 

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

BY THE sruoturs

AND FOR THE STUDIENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXVII,NUMBER5

‘ Bystanders limit sexual assault

As the number of sexual assaults reported hasdeclined, W&L is taking on a bystander intervention program

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

Although sexual assault is a com-
monly heard term during the weeks of
ﬁrst-year extended orientation, many
would be surprised to learn that unwant-
ed sexual touching of females at Wash-
ington and Lee has actually gone down
in the past years.

According to the biennial National
College Health Assessment survey,
whose results were released this sum-

could step in and do something.”
However, the new school year has
ushered in even further changes in the
realm of sexual misconduct education.
One of the biggest changes is the switch
from Green Dot to the new Bringing in
the Bystander (BITB) program. '
“[Green Dot] is a great program, and
it did some wonderful things for us, but
one of the reasons that we wanted to

“[ Green Dot] is a great program, and it did some

wonderful things for us, but one of the reasons that

we wanted to switch was that we felt it gave us more

ﬂexibility to adapt to our campus. ’

I

DEAN SIDNEY EVANS, Chair of the Healthy Sexual Culture committee
 

mer, the amount of “sexual touching
without consent” dropped from 19.3% to
14.6% of females at W&L between 2010
and 2012.

Jan Kaufman, W&L’s Director of
Health Promotion, said that the school
used to approach sexual assault in terms
of “harm reduction,” but that in telling
the student body how to protect them-
selves from sexual harm, certain “rape
myths” were promoted.

“Rape is always the fault of the per-
son committing the rape period,” said
Kaufman.

“The buzzword right now for sexual
misconduct and sexual assault program-
ming is ‘bystander intervention,’” said
Kaufman, regarding the possible cause
of the declining rates.

In the 2009-2010 school year, W&L
adopted a program called Green Dot,
which was geared at educating the stu-
dent body about sexual assault through
this “bystander approach.”

“Typically, there’s other people
around, and the scenario plays out over
a long period of time, where there’s a lot
of people in the environment, and many
times they are acting as facilitators of
what will ensue,” said Kaufman. “These
people who are in the environment~the
bystanders——and even the facilitators,

switch was that we felt it gave us more
flexibility to adapt to our campus,” said
Dean Sidney Evans, chair of W&L’s new
Healthy Sexual Culture committee.

“It was really hard to blend Green
Dot with the other things we were do-
ing,” said Janet Boller, W&L’s clinical
psychologist at the forefront of sexual
misconduct education.

Kaufman said that BITB is a much
shorter program, allowing more students
to be educated. She continued to say that
Bringing in the Bystander encompassed
more in its subject matter than just rape.

“We wanted to make sure that we
didn’t give the message that only rape is
inappropriate,” said Kaufman.

r
._._s

= hélitliedwithoul their consent

‘National averages
are in parentheses.
Although the
survey question
“as rephrased
between 2008 and

the percen
‘change bet
these mo _
was only a
decrease, nm in

the question an
unlikely factor in
data disc,rcpnnc_\'.

, the rephrasing of

Kaufman described the new program

2004 2006

701')

as including PowerPoints, videos, activi-
ties and discussion.

Along with the BITB program, the
school has adopted other techniques in
dealing with sexual misconduct, such
as creating the Healthy Sexual Culture
Committee,_ which combines members
from SPEAK, l in 4, End It and a small
group of faculty members and adminis-
trators.

“What it started to look like to me is
that many of our prongs were competing
with one another rather than supporting
one another,” said Evans, explaining a

type of hyper pluralism created by too
many different campus organizations
dealing with sexual misconduct.

“We thought it would be good to put
together a group of people that could
think strategically about what our goals
are, what messages we want to send, and
come up with some guidelines that could
help not only us but also the people who
are involved in these activities to assess
the messages of the program and see if

they really accomplished what we want-’

ed,” Evans added.
There has also been a renovation to

the procedures under V»llICll the Student-
Faculty Hearing board tries sexual as-
sault cases.

“We’ve ll10\'€Cl to an ‘investigator
model,” said Boiler. She explained that
two trained investigators will now be in
charge of gathering information about a
reported sexual assault offense.

“They will go and be the ‘evidence-
collectors’ so that if someone does de-
cide to go forward with a he2iring...it is
not just one person‘s word against anoth-
er’s,” said Boller. "“Wc are hoping that
makes it a friendlier process for someone

who would like to move forward.”

In addition, the Healthy Sexual Cul-
ture Committee is extending talk about
sexual assault beyond ﬁrst-year orienta-
tion, going to sororities and fraternities
to talk about the bystander approach and
resources available on campus.

“Any statistic that we have above‘

‘zero’ in the sexual misconduct arena is

too much,” said Kaufman.

“The hope is that through more dis-
cussion, talking about it, more educa-
tion, then [that] is going to impact what
people do.” '

Investigating X-rays and Rembrandt

Uﬂelman discusses new technology that will be implemented in museums to make groundbreaking discoveries in art

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Last Friday in the Science Center,
Dr. Erich S. Uffelman presented a lec-
ture called “Scientific Adventures with
Rembrandt, Vermeer, Veronese, Peale,
Ghissi, and Others.”

The talk focused on how science can
help paintings. Science can determine
an artwork’s condition, its materials and
its artist.

Scientists recently made an interest-
ing discovery about “An Old Man With a
Beard,” a 17th-century painting by Rem-
brandt Harmcnszoon van Rijn. Using
X-ray ﬂuorescence (XRF) spectroscopy,_

E scientists bombarded the painting with

innumerable and powerful X-rays. 'As a
result, the painting’s atoms emitted ﬂuo-
rescent X-rays which mapped out~the
pigments and colors beneath the surface.

It was revealed that beneath the old
man, Rembrandt had begun painting a
self—portrait of himself. “He may have
removed the original paint or perhaps he
never got to the stage of putting the paint
on,” said University of Antwerp Profes-
sor Koen J anssens.

Before their chemicalization during
the Industrial Revolution, paints con-
tained naturally-occurring substances,
like the elements of the periodic table.
XRF traces the ﬂuorescent, or colored,
X-Rays given off by elements like mer-
cury (which emits red X-Rays), iron
(yellow, orange, and brown), and copper
(blue and green).

The art world will soon beneﬁt from
the proliferation and price reduction of
cutting-edge, scientiﬁc technologies. All

 
 

. ; ‘I J
:-, .
. 1}! ‘

4,4:

 

major museums will have mobile X-ray
ﬂuorescence (XRF) scanners within five
years. With these devices, museums
will be able to make more groundbreak-
ing discoveries like Rembrandt’s self-
portrait.

f‘An Old Man With a Beard” -Remb

randt van Rijn

Modem technologies such as XRF,
and still others like infrared reﬂectogra-
phy and X—Radiography, have developed
in light of attacks on artwork known as
cultural heritage objects.

In Germany in 1937, Nazis organized

an exhibition of “degenerate,” or mod-
em art, which was banned for being “un-
German” or “Jewish." Works ofart were
accompanied by slogans such as “delib-
erate sabotage of national de.t'ense,” “an
insult to German \wmanliood." and “na-

ture as seen by sick minds.”

In Afghanistan in March, 2001, the
Taliban obliterated the Buddhas of
Bamiyan for being idols against Islam.
These two statues had been watching
over Asia’s Silk Road for more than
1500 years.

In Baghdad in April, 2003, armed
thieves looted Iraq’s National Museum
while U.S. troops stood and watched.
Donald H. Rumsfeld, Defense Secretary
in 2003, said, “Stuff happens...and it’s
untidy and freedoms untidy, and free
people are _free to make mistakes and
commit crimes and do bad things.”

As cultural heritage objects are en-
dangered further, scientists like Uffel-
man seek to preserve and ‘study the genu-
ine artwork that remains.

For instance, art historian and Dutch
artist Charlotte Caspers is reconstruct-
ing a missing panel of an altarpiece by
Ghissi, a l4th—century Italian artist.

Genuine artwork, it would seem, is
not that common. Art sellers often do
not allow potential buyers to perform
XRF analysis for fear that their work
will be discovered to have been forged.

Uffelman delivered the Inaugural
Lecture of the Cincinnati Professorship
to the general public, including students,
faculty, and President Kenneth P. Ruscio.

Uffelman has taught chemistry at
Washington and Lee University since
1993. During Spring Term,.Uffelman
teaches Science in Art, a course held
abroad in the Netherlands.

 

 

l*‘.!z‘. 
,4lI\~ ..

 

» wlmaliiz

OCT 0 92012

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

 

FY elections brk ground

After speeches last Sunday, ﬁrst-year oﬂicer elections are still in the run-oﬁ’s

By Douglas McNiel
STAFF WRITE R

The elections for ﬁrst-year
representatives of the Executive
Committee (EC), the Student Judi-
cial Council (SJ C) and a First-Year
Class President occurred on Oct. 1.

The EC is primarily responsible
for handling the Honor System and
the budget. The SlC’s primary re-
sponsibilities are to handle inves-
tigations and punishment for acts
that are not covered by the Honor
System, such as sexual misconduct
and discrimination.

The First-Year Class President
is a new position. The First-Year
Class President heads the ﬁrst—year
leadership council. The ﬁrst-year
leadership council oversees ﬁrst-
year class events and fundraisers.
This position is making its re-
turn after a two-year absence on
the ballot due to an oversight.

The elections fall under the
jurisdiction of the Voting Regu-
lations Board (VRB), headed
by seniors Becky Mickel and
Billy Crosby.

The VRB oversees the elec-
tions and makes sure that the
rules are followed and that the
dates are met. —

The VRB expectations
state: “Candidates act in an
honorable manner and conduct
themselves as gentlemen and
gentlewomen. Candidates will
be afforded every beneﬁt of the
doubt, but are nonetheless held
to the highest standards of the

place on Sept. 30 in

University.”

The candidates had to abide by 0

rules including a $30 campaign
budget, no mass Internet commu-
nication and a cap of 20 campaign
posters that must be at least 30 feet
away from each other. These rules
helped ensure that the cam-
paign was fair and ev-
eryone had an equal
chance.
Debates took

Stackhouse Theater.
Each candidate was
given the
chance

to share his or her opinion on why
he or she believes that they are

   
  
  
  

qualiﬁed for the elected office, and
why the po- sition would
be im— portant to
them.
The
'day af-

ter the

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   

bates, the ﬁrst-years voted for the
ﬁrst time and because there was no
single majority in all of the three
elections, the vote has resulted in
three run-offs so far. The run-off
elections took place on Oct. 2. The
election for the offices of ﬁrst—year
EC representative and SJC repre-
sentative went into another run off
that was held on Oct. 5.
BREAKING NEWS: Paqui To-
scano has been elected to the SJC.
EC elections were still in the run-
off stage when this issue printed.

Deans move to Lee—Jackson

Slight renovations to the Lee—Jackson House have enabled several deans to move

from Baker Hall to this historic campus landmark.

‘.

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

The Lee—Jackson House will
welcome ﬁve new members on
Oct. 11 when the Oﬂices of the
Dean relocate to the historic land-
mark on campus.

Dean Suzanne Keen, Dean

bilitation project and came over to
Baker Hall. We knew that it was a
temporary office for us, but did not
know where we were going to be
permanently until this past sum-
mer,” Price said.

“We moved out of Washington Hall for the Col-

onnade rehabilitation project and came over to

Baker Hall. We knew that it was a temporary

oﬁice for us, but did not know where we were go-

ing to be permanently until this past summer. ’

J

WENDY PRICE, Assistant Dean of W&L

Wendy Price, and Dean Marcia
France, along with their two sup-
port staff, Ms. Virginia Garrett
and Ms. Michelle Rothenberger,
are moving out of their temporary
ofﬁces in Baker Hall and into the
Lee—Jackson House located at 8
East Washington St. for permanent
residency.

“We moved out of Washing-
ton Hall for the Colonnade reha-

Several departments have made
the same transition both in and out
of Washington Hall to Baker Hall
or various locations around cam-
pus. “There is a different shufﬁe of
ofﬁces going back into Washington
Hall,” said Price. “The Ofﬁces of
the President, the Ofﬁces of the
Provost and the Ofﬁce of Advance-
ment are returning to Washington
Hall along with the Philosophy

Department.”

Price said it is important to note
that the entrance for students into
the new office is actually the back
of the house. Keen’s ofﬁce is lo-
cated in the front parlor, while the
remaining ofﬁces for Price, France
and their support staff are convert-
ed from bedrooms once used by
previous residents.

The Lee—Jackson House has a
long-standing history. According
to wlu.edu, the house was built in
1842 and at that time was intended
to house the president of Washing-
ton College. Hence its name, it was
also home to Robert E. Lee and his
family during his presidency of
Washington College from 1865 to
1869, as well as Virginia Military
Institute Professor Thomas “Stone-
wall” Jackson and his ﬁrst wife,
Elinor Junkin.

According to Price, the house
has since then been occupied by
several other members of the
Washington and Lee community.
“It’s been lived in by a variety of
other presidents and I believe it
has had faculty housing over the
years,” said Price. “It has been both

an ofﬁce and residential space.”

Due to its historical signiﬁ-
cance, very little remodeling was
done to prepare for the Offices of
the Dean. Ms. Carole Bailey, Proj-
ect Manager in the Oﬂice of Facili-
ties Management, was responsible
for managing the construction.

“The approach was to disturb
the historic fabric of the building
as little as possible in the spirit of
preservation,” said Bailey.

Most of the effort went toward
maintenance. Non-invasive struc-
tural reinforcement measures were
deployed under the house and a
walkway was added, according to
Bailey.

France is especially excited
about the new oﬂice because of
its historical prestige. “It is really
wonderful that I’m working in a
space with such historical signiﬁ-
cance,” France said. “One of the
things I really love about W&L is
all of the history and I think it’s
really cool to get the opportunity
to work in a, building that has so
much of it.”

4

RELIABLE AND AFFORDAB

 

SHEILAMOHEB@MOHEB

O

OOOO

O

IVIQHEB LEQAL DEFEN§E, PLLQ

LE LEGAL REPRESENTATION
RECKLESS DRIVING

SPEEDING
DUIs

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS

CAR ACCIDENTS

CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS
LEGAL.COM - (540) 520-7355

    

r r. if‘ av‘
.  ‘¥By Hannah Howard
A STAFF WRITER

Former Philippine president
accused of stealing funds

‘ The Philippine government accused its former president, Glo-
ria Macapagal Arroyo, of misusing nine million dollars in state
lottery funds. She allegedly stole these funds that had been in-
tended for charitable purposes and used the money for campaign
expenses. She is now in the custody of the Philippine National
Police. This is her third arrest. The current government also ar-
rested nine other ofﬁcials for their involvement.

I I I I
Turkish parliament approves
I I I I I I
inrtiatwes against Syria
Thursday morning, Turkey retaliated against Syria’s mortar
attacks by shelling government military positions. In light of
these attacks, the Turkish parliament approved legislation that
allows for military initiatives against Syria when the govem-
ment deems it necessary. Five Turkish citizens and two Syrian
troops died in the attacks. UN and NATO recently convened to
discuss the matter between the two countries. Council members

soon hope to release a statement condemning the actions of both
countries.

Landslide adds to recent
natural disasters in China

A landslide hit the Chinese village of Zhenhe. This is the
second largest natural disaster to hit the country in a very short
period. China is still recovering -from the Sept. 7 earthquakes.
The landslide destroyed two farmhouses and a school. Normally,
students would not have been in school but they were trying to
make up for days missed after the quakes. Oﬂicial reports say
that at least 18 young children and one villager were buried by
the landslide.

U5. and South Korea reach
agreement on missiles

The United States and South Korea have formed a new agree-
ment regarding the reach of South Korea’s missiles. The agree-
ment is a response to the increased threat from North Korea. The
‘United States agreed to help South Korea bolster their ballis-
tics program capabilities. Previously the range of missiles was
capped at a range of 300 kilometers, however, under the new
terms the limit is 800 kilometers. The agreement will likely rattle
the North Korean missile program.

Russian boy discovers
mammoth carcass in Siberia

An 11-year-old Russian boy stumbled upon a mammoth car-
cass in northern Siberia. It was embedded in the permafrost near
Sopochnaya Karga Cape. The frost left the bones well preserved.
Professors from the Zoology Institute in St. Petersburg exca-
vated the bones and have been studying them for the past few
months. The mammoth, nicknamed J enya, died at 16-years-old,
measuring two meters tall and weighing in at 500 kilograms. The
bones, dated to be approximately 20,000 years old, show signs of
possible human touch.

Libya prime minister
dismissed from post

Libya’s prime minister, Mustafa Abu Shagur, was dismissed
from his post this week. He was the ﬁrst elected prime minister

in the country after the overthrow of the former prime minister _

last year. However, he failed twice to win a vote from the Gen-
eral National Congress (GNC) which would have allowed the
formation of an emergency cabinet. After the second defeat, he
was asked to step down. The GNC now has four weeks to elect
a replacement.

Abortion rights boat barred
access by Moroccan navy

Dutch activists from the group Women on Waves were sup-
posed to land in Smir, Morocco on Thursday to raise awareness
about abortion rights for women. Their boat, dubbed the “abor-
tion boat,” was barred access to the country by the Moroccan
navy. Women on Waves sent another yacht not associated with
the group ahead of the abortion boat because they suspected ac-
cess would be denied. I

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

 

opinions

Ten shades of W&L: fitting

General life wisdom for the ‘collegiate Lexingtonian

By Caroline Hamp
s TA F F w R IT E R

I’m a sophomore now, so obviously
that means I know everything. Professor
Desjardins once poked fun at me, saying
that sophomore originates from the Greek,
“wise fool.” Ijust love it when professors
call me an idiot. Which is why I am here
to give the ﬁrst-years some tips. By this
point, I’m sure you’ve already learned
some of these lessons. After all, the best

way to learn is by doing, right?
Embrace D-Hall. For most stu-
. dents, it is only fully accessible for
the ﬁrst year, so take advantage of it while
you can! Despite the chicken that gets
reused into different platters (completing
its D-Hall cycle in the Mexican Tortilla
Soup), it’s pretty tasty. But beware of the
desserts: you don’t need Royale Cook-
ies, Magic Bars, DIY Cupcakes, Lemon
Squares, AND Mint Chocolate Chip Pie
after every meal. Trust me, the freshman

ﬁfteen is not ﬂattering.
Get to know members of the
. opposite sex. Platonically. Too
much testosterone or too much estrogen
can be a bad thing. There are beneﬁts to
having friends of the opposite sex. For me
(since I’m, you know, a female), it’s being
able to burp without hiding it, watching
sports games with enthusiasm, and openly
cracking up at dirty jokes.
The dorms are only temporary;
. next year, you will probably live
somewhere different. But until then, buy
some Raid (aka cockroach-killing spray).
Wear shower shoes no matter what, even
if you’re stumbling into the bathroom at 2
am on a Friday night. Get used to climb-
ing the stairs (yes, I count my trek to fourth
floor Graham-Lees as a workout). And
don’t be ashamed to put a toddler safety
bar on your lofted bed.

NO CARGO SHORTS. (That
It goes for guys and girls.) People
on this campus are stylish, in a preppy,
straight out of a J.Crew or Lilly Pulitzer
catalog way. I’m not necessarily a stylish
person, and I secretly wish I could go to
class in pajamas on some mornings, but
that would be social suicide. So don’t be
afraid to dress up or have fun with clothes.
Pastels are not just for girls. Cowboy boots
are not just for the ranch. And Sperry ’s are
not just for the yacht.
Class registration is war. Don’t
. worry about getting into the same
classes as friends because you don’t have
time to think about anyone but yourself.
Play dirty. Go ahead; press that “Submit”
button at 6:58 am.
6 Its okay if your entire home-
2; 5. town thinks you go to William
and Mary or some made-up school called

Washington and Franklin in St. Louis.
Just nod your head and let it go, unlike me,
who actually tries to correct them every
two minutes. It’s a pride thing. I mean, we
go to one of the best colleges in the world,
and if people can’t get the name right, well
excuse-moi. Pardon my French.
Make professors your best
. friends. We go to a small school;
embrace it! Knowing your professors will
make life a lot easier. They will love you
and take care of you. They will write fab-
ulous recommendations and take you out
for coffee and help you out when class gets

diﬁicult.
8 Accept the fact that your ID
. card looks like a mug shot.
Your teachers see it. Your friends see it.
And they may judge you based on that aw-
ful photo. Unfortunately, you have it for
the next four years,_ so get used to it and

in for the average freshman

suck it up.
 Get involved! We have
' ‘ . hundreds (literally) of clubs,
athletics, arts, and student activities. Ever
heard of Cat Lovers Anonymous? Okay,
you probably haven’t heard of that one be-
cause we don’t actually have it (andrif you
have, then you might actually be at Wash-
ington and Franklin). But you can start it!
Or there are plenty of other options I’m
more of a dog person anyway.
1@ Be Yourself. Yeah, yeah, I
. had to end on a cheesy note,
but seriously: W&L’s culture has a way of
sucking you in and creating clones. Don’t
be one of them. Despite everything I just
said, this is the most important one, and
if that’s what it takes, I’d rather see more
Converse on campus than cowboy boots.

King Obama robbed by Romney-hood

Why Romney came out on top after last Wednesday is headlining debate

By Victoria Bell
_STAFF WRITER _
Romney was commanding. Romney

looked like a president. If I didn’t know
who was the sitting commander in chief
and had to guess on October 3rd, I would
have placed my bets on Willard. I would
have been wrong. I think Obama expect-
ed the manner of his cadence to win the
approval of the American people. He was
wrong.

Romney was bold, pointing out that
PBS funding and Obamacarei would be
slashed if he were elected POTUS. Rom-
ney addressed Obama directly.Romney
had speciﬁc and pointed actions he would
take as POTUS, whereas Obama regular-
ly look flustered. Mid-interview, howev-
er, it was as though Obama remembered
he needed to smile, for approval ratings
sake, and we saw that ﬂashy smile until
the termination of the debate.

So, what does this mean overall for the

election? Thisdebate is a pivotal point in
the campaign. America is tuned in now,
and many Americans are watching to de-
termine where they will designate their
support. I suggest that after this debate, it
is a different race. The American people-
witnessed Romney in a light outside of
his visage the media has painted in the
campaign leading up to this debate. Ac-
cording to CBS, in a poll of 533 uncom-
mitted voters, 46% say Romney won and
22% say Obama won with the rest being
undecided.

Frankly, both conservatives and liber-
als wholeheartedly believe in the welfare
of the American people. Jonathan Haidt,
a researcher in psychology and politics,
has shown that both conservatives and
liberals are motivated by morality. Haidt
further shows the difference between
conservatives and liberals is the set of

moral categories by which they abide. In
other words, conservatives look to loy-
alty, authority, and sanctity. Liberals look
to compassion and fairness.

While emotions and personal inter-
ests should play a part in legislation,
good policy is not be made on emotional
whims. Still, humans are not numbers
to be shuffled around and put into equa-
tions. Sadly, this often happens. In short,
conservatives,liberals, and the like need
to figure out how to work together to de-
sign policy that addresses the hard policy
questions while maintaining regard for
human nature.

Like what you read? For more
news and opinion, tune in on _
Wednesday nights at 7:30pm to
Straight Talk with AP and Vicky B
.on WLU_R.

 

Surviving as the only male in class

A how-to guide for that one class with crazy ratios

By Jackson Knight
G U E s T w R I T E R

If you wear a size 10 and ‘/2, please try
to put yourself in my shoes. Everyone else
just try to empathize as best you can with
what I am about to say. I walked into one
of my classes on the ﬁrst day of winter
tenn only to see 30 girls staring back at
me. I froze. “Stay calm,” I told myself. All
I knew about females was what I had seen
on the history channel and read in story-
books when I was young. I never thought I
would have to use any of that knowledge,
but I began desperately scanning my brain
for some piece of infonnation that might
help me survive the encounter. I recalled
a story my dad had once told me. Little
Red Riding Hood. That’s it! If I could
somehow disguise myself as a wolf, then
I would be able to disguise myself as one
of them, and they wouldn’t be able to rec-
ognize me until I tried to eat them. Luckily
I wasn’t hungry. Unluckily there were no
nearby wolf costumes, and class was about
to start. So I sat down.

As I sat there staring at the door waiting
for one of my own kind to stumble in and
realize that he and I were in this together, I
sobbed loudly. I looked over at some girls
in the front row having a conversation. I
couldn’t make out what they were say-
ing, but I knew they weren’t talking about
sports. I had to get out of there.

r I have now braved the flock (or is this
one of those weird ones like a parliament
of owls or a murder of crows?) of females
in my class for 3 weeks, and by no.means
am I an expert. But I’m surviving. That’s
why I decided to list a few tips here for the
2 or 3 men that this happens to annually.
Godspeed.

Don’t talk about ﬁght club (they
1: don’t seem/to like it).

Bring food. Girls love food. But

2: this can get tricky. You have to
bring food that says, “Hey, I love calories
just as much as the next guy, but I don’t re-
ally.” Stick with something like cucumber
slices and cranberry juice. The more two
items don’t taste good together, the better.
If one of the females asks if she can have
some of whatever you brought, give her
some. Females aren’t naturally aggressive
creatures, but it is best not to agitate them.
, When you participate in class,
Zn don’t give it away that you are

a male. Of course, they can tell you aren’t
one of them, but as long as you don’t rub it
in their faces, they should have no problem
with your presence. So on the ﬁrst day of
class when the teacher asks for the name
you go by, pick a unisex alias. If your
name is Bruce, I’m sorry but you now go
by Alex. Don’t worry it’s just for one se-

mester.
Shave before every class. They
4: will be less likely to mistake
you for a predator.
If you are colorblind you
55 MUST drop the class. It is too

dangerous.
- If you notice that one of the
6. females is particularly docile,
you might try befriending it. Females are
social creatures, and if one of them devel-
ops a fondness for you, you may be ac-
cepted into a social circle. If all goes well,
you will have a new network of females
who can protect you from rival female

circles. This strategy can be risky how-
ever, because females have been known
to be more hostile within their own social
circles than they are between rival gangs.
Just steer clear of drama within the herd,
and you should be ﬁne. If Clarice tells you
she thinks Gerard is cute, don’t so much
as look at him. If it’s meant to be, you and
Gerard will ﬁnd each other eventually.
Survival is the most important thing right

now. " .
Don’t be late. Females are
73 punctual, and they get an-
noyed if their punctuality is overshad-
owed by your tardiness. However, if you
absolutely have to be late to class for
whatever reason, there are some appropri-
ate excuses that can save you, like “Sorry
I’m late. I was driving behind somejerk
man who was all over the road.” Or you
could try, “Sorry I’m late. I was making
cucumber slices and cranberry juice for

my female partner. She’s the greatest!"
These 7 rules are the reason I am alive
and able to write this article. I still don’t
claim to know everything about the fe-
male race, but I’m learning. Females are
among the most unpredictable of Earth’s
inhabitants, so it is quite possible that I
will slip up,one day and get caught in a

stampede or get too close to their mouths ‘

during feeding time. But, there is one
thought that keeps me going to class day
after day: if some sort of apocalypse oc-
curred and my entire class found some
secret shelter and found ourselves to be
the only survivors, I would be the father
of everyone in the world from then on.
I’ve always wanted children...

The debate:

of nothing

a whole lot

Was the debate disappointing? Yates thinks so.

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF WRITER

The first presidential debate of this

year’s election cycle was, to put it mildly,

painful. Overall, I walked away learning
absolutely nothing new about either candi-
date, and no new details with any kind of
legitimacy arose regarding their respective
plans to rebuild the economy. The most
detail we got out of either candidate was
“according to the AARP [insert random
number] jobs would be lost here” and “ac-
cording to the Association for Independent
Businesses your plan would cost [random
number] jobs there.” Honestly, I had an
incredibly hard time sitting through the de-
bate due to the utter lack of sincerity from
either candidate and I found myself yell-
ing at my computer with every word that
exited their mouths. This debate made me
feel about the same as I would if I watched
a 2-hour campaign ad from each candidate;
I felt sad, angry, and soul-crushingly an-
noyed all at once while learning about as
much about each candidate.

I say “lack of sincerity” because I
couldn’t trust any of the ﬁgures they
were giving me. Obama would say “your
tax plan would raise the national debt by
$5 trillion dollars...” with absolutely no
source cited. Romney did the same, saying
that some random organization somewhere
at some time said that some plan Obama is
pushing would cost 700,000 jobs, with ab-
solutely no math to back up his claims. On
top of this, both candidates constantly ref-
erenced people without last names, people
I highly doubt are real sharing experiences
that I highly doubt ever happened. This de-
bate was completely void of any

meaningful commentary

to  -—_, distinguish these

can-  '-i"'* didates from one

         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

anoth- er, especially since
they both made very clear
don’t support the

that they

Simp- son-

One study gives you time for a Pinterest break

By Allie Weiss
s TA F F w R IT E R

It’s about that time again. The leaves have
started to change, rainclouds have claimed
their territory overhead for the next few
months, and professors have started writing
up the midtenns. If you’re like me, you ﬁnd
it nearly impossible to believe that Reading
Days are upon us, and it’s already time to
commit to memory everything you’ve leamed
in the past month. But don’t worry—thanks to
a recent study out of Hiroshima University in
Japan, cramming for exams just took an ador-
able tum.

You know all those videos on YouTube
of sneezing baby pandas and surprised kit-

I

tens that you watch while you’re supposed
to be leaming about WB. Yeats’ influence on
the Irish Literary Revival? Apparently, all that
procrastination has really been a form of strat-
egy. According to researchers, intermittently
viewing images of baby animals between
cognitive tasks increases focus and" sharpens
attention. ‘

In the ﬁrst of three experiments included in
this study, University students were asked to
play a game akin to the American board game
Operation. During the break, half of these
participants were shown pictures of young
cats and dogs, while the rest were shown pic-

  Is there a furry cure for the midterm blu?

tunes of older animals. Returning to the game,
students who were shown pictures of young
animals perfonned 10% better at the task; their
counterparts performed only 5.5% better.

In the second experiment, participants
were asked to conduct a number search, in
which they had to locate a specific number
on a page of forty numbers. Some participants
were shown pictures of baby animals, some
shown pictures of adult animals, and some
shown pictures of various food items. Pictures
of visually enticing foods like steak, pasta,
and sushi had no eﬂfect on participants’ subse-
quent perfonnance at the task, eliminating the

Bowles plan. Romney says he “has his own
plan” while Obama said that he was push-
ing a “modified plan through Congress,”
an outright lie in my opinion. I think the
President presenting a modiﬁed version
of a budget plan that he very publicly de-
manded then very publicly condemned
would be on the news somewhere.

Aside from a lack of content, I learned
that both candidates are not gentlemen by
any measure, given how horrifyingly rude
they were to Jim Lehrer. The complete lack
of respect both men had for Mr. Lehrer
was a real shock to me, as I was expecting
such rudeness to come from the audience
if anything. The constant interruptions,
time overages, and passive aggressive jabs
directed at Mr. Lehrer are unprecedented,
and I present them as proof that this gen-
eration of politicians is by far the rudest,
angriest, and most unproductive.

Still, the debate wasn’t completely
pointless. According to basically every ma-
jor news source, Romney won the debate.
If you were to deﬁne “win” as “not screw-
ing up” and “not offending every single
non-WASP watching” then yes, he won. I
keep hearing that all over the place, “Rom-
ney won!” but no one can seem to tell me
any particular point, phrase, or topic that
really pushed him over the top. The best
I’ve been able to extract from the politi-
cos is that Obama just didn’t really put up
much of a ﬁght for Romney. Regardless,
this has deﬁnitely shaken up the national
discussion and has stopped Obama’s mo-
mentum to a certain extent. Despite this
however,‘neither candidate has taken this
opportunity to roll out any new ads that
talk about themselves for once, stillbusy
running ads telling you not to vote for the
other guy and how awful a human being
he is. By that logic, I probably shouldn’t
vote for either, considering both are com-
plete monsters according to the candidates
themselves.

On the whole, I think a better use of
everyone’s time would have been to give
each candidate a unicycle, three bowling
pins; and ordering them to juggle while
riding. Think about it: It would get the in-

l evitable embarrassment of the candidates

nomrally associated with gaffes out of the

way, it would humble them both, it would

make me laugh, and we would learn just

about as much regarding the candi-

dates’ policies and opinions. The
debate that I think will draw a big-
ger contrast is the upcoming Vice
Presidential debate, that debate I
will LOVE to watch.

’r‘5s..~t«

possibility that the improvement in attention
stemmed merely from pleasing images.

The ﬁnal experiment involved partici-
pants engaging in a time-task, randomly being

- shown pictures that either included baby ani-

mals or didn’t. Those who viewed the animals
performed better overall, suggesting that focus
is heightened after exposure to cute images.
So go ahead-—-take a break from trying to
understand the economics of war in the Mid-
dle East Because, really, perusing videos of
baby tigers is only going to make you smarter.

  
 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&life'

 

  

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

Students in the General Development Initiative work together to reach out and empowe

By Kane Thomas
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Professors in the Shepherd Poverty
Programs often challenge their students
to not just study and understand Poverty
and its effects, but to actually get out and
do something about it. The General De-
velopment Initiative (GenDev) is a stu-
dent organization that has embraced this
challenge. Recognized as a corporation
by the state of Virginia, GenDev is dedi-
cated to economic self-empowermentfor
the poor. Through small “micro-loans,”
the organization hopes to jump-start the
economic potential of the impoverished
both domestically and abroad. GenDev
now stands on the cusp of its first direct
micro-loan, and is a prime example of
the power for positive change within the
student body at Washington and Lee. I

GenDev’s main vehicle for seIf-em-
powerment comes in the form of micro-

Ioans——smalI venture investments made '

to entrepreneurs who lack access to

E If"?
projects supported by GenDev.

credit and traditional banking. 100% of
the returns from these investments are
then reinvested in new projects, effec-
tively spreading the social beneﬁt of sev-
eral times the original loan amount over
several different communities. Between

2009 and 2012, third-party lenders, such
as KIVA and Microplace, were used to
locate and distribute loans to potential
entrepreneurs and GenDev achieved
100% repayment on their loans. Now,
GenDev is currently embroiled in con-
tract negotiations to disperse its ﬁrst di-
rect, no italics loan to a small Ecuador-
ian village.

The project started last year, when
GenDev was approached by the Presi-
dent of an NGQ based in Quito, who
offered to connect GenDev with a small
village, named Village 235, that was
seeking lines of credit. In,August, Gen-
Dev funded a trip for sophomore Ellie
Bold to visit Ecuador and explore Vil-
lage 235 and report her ﬁndings. Bold
discovered a potential project growing
pineapple along the riverbanks near the
village. The villagers informed her that
pineapple is extremely durable, low-

E

5

E .
§
.5

"'"""""~n1 m

 

 33. i j 3%

This village in Ecuador is just one of the main beneﬁciaries of the

maintenance, and valuable. Furthermore,
the pineapple could potentially become
much more valuable, because a new rail-
way is being installed near the village,
which will allow the village to ship their
produce to a wider area. The only thing

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

 

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS ED|TO.R
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITER

BUSINESS MANAGERS

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

 

 

  

Sophomore Ellie Bold smiles for the camera with grateful residents from Village 235 in Ecuador this

past August. This research trip was funded by GenDev.

preventing Village 235 fromproducing
more pineapple is lack of access to suf-
ﬁcient ‘capital. GenDev is working to
remedy this roadblock, and plans to be-
gin receiving returns on the investment
within 18 months of planting.

GenDev is also exploring potential
projects in the Dominican Republic,
Brazil, and is also promoting self-em-
powerment in Virginia. Senior Haley
Miller leads a GenDev project focused
on aiding and supporting a women’s co-
operative based out of Charlottesville.
The cooperative‘ is comprised of Bhu-
tanese and Burundian refugees who are
now earning money by sewing and mak-
ing crafts. Last year, Miller recognized a
need for basic business education among
the women and headed a program that
taught 8 business literacy courses to the
cooperative. Miller is currently work-
ing on qualifying the cooperative for a
temporary business license, as well as

expanding their production capabilities.
Buoyed by the success of its current
projects, GenDev is hoping to expand
the scope of its operations, and in the
next 5 years hopes to distribute over
$10,000 worth ofmicro-loans. This lofty
ﬁgure will only be possible with the sup-
port ofthe W&L community, in the form
of investors and new members.
GenDev’s team of 10 students en-
compasses a wide variety of majors
and skills, from Latin American Stud-
ies and Journalism to Economics and
Business. The organization includes
Kemper Scholars, Tri-Lingual Students,
Student Athletes, Executive Commit-
tee members and Johnson Opportunity
winners——in other words, average W&L
students. The potential for creative solu-
tions to the world’s problems lies within
the student body of this very institution.
Human inertia, our tendency to choose
to do nothing, is often capable of detour-

Student spotlight: Mica Fleet ‘15

Musical talent? Chick-ﬁl-a? Peacocks? Meet the starting offensive lineman

By Mariel Pearl
STAFF WRITER

Micah Nathaniel Fleet ‘15
Hometown; Memphis, Tenn.

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is_to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but '
is otherwise independent.THE RlNG—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM P-HI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
-FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Major: Journalism
ACEIVIIZIES: Football, Rockbridge Re-
port, WLUR ’

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON
JULIA LANG

M“ E WHSS Nickname from highischool?

Never had one. I’m un-nicknamable.
Everyone tries and they can’t=
ever come up with something
better than Micah.

VICTORIA BELL
SHELBY FLORES
JANEY FUGATE
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
MARIEL PEARL
JACKSON KNIGHT

Favorite restaurant
in Rockbridge Coun-
ty?

The bistro right here in Lex.
D—Hall is a long ways off.

#1 most played song
on your iPod? Q

Don’t have an iPod but the *
song I’m really into right now-
is “You Make My Dreams _
Come True” by Hall & Oates.
I’ve been really into ‘80’s mu-
sic lately.

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

Favorite part of the
Homecoming game?

The second drive of the
game. [We] blocked this one
kid so far back he ran into two
more kids and we pancaked
them all (blocking someone
so hard you put them on their
back) and our running back
ran right off us and scored
after just one play. We turned
around and celebrated at mid-
ﬁeld for an awesome block
while he was running to the
end zone... it was hilarious.

If you could start your own
frat/sorority, what would you
name it and what would your
symbol be?

This is something a friend of mine and
I actually thought of. Sigma Epsilon Chi
(EEK) and our symbol would be a pea-

‘ cock.

Why a peacock?

They’re awesome! I mean big feathers

that fold down into tails and they can still
ﬂy. Plus they strut around like a boss!

Favorite W&L memory?
Getting initiated into my fraternity. It was

then that I made it, I knew I had a.'ton of
guys around me that‘d do anything for me,
but that‘s going to be supplanted when we

win an ODAC title.

Something most students
don't know about the football
team?

We actually are students and nice guys. I

feel like most people have a perception of

football players from high school as meat-
heads that don’t take hard classes. I can’t
tell you how many times I’ve heard one
of the guys talking about some high level
science or math course they study [four]
hours a night for or how many times out at

 

ing us from the potential good that we
can accomplish. It is easier to sit back
and do nothing than it is to invest time
and effort into to trying to solve one of
humanity’s oldest puzzles. GenDev is an
example of 10 students ﬁghting against
the effects of human inertia and striving
‘to combat global poverty despite their

y0UIIg age.

 

a party I’ve seen a teammate help someone
up off the ground or make sure a girl gets a
ride on Traveller before they do.

If you could open any fran-

chise in Lex, what would it be?

Either a Chipotle or a Chick-ﬁl-a. Chick-

ﬁl-a because it‘s something that Ijust love.

Do you have any hid-
den talents?

I’m actually pretty musical.
I played the violin in high
school and was all state for
Tennessee and was actually
asked to audition for a part in
my high school’s musicals but
football got in the way.

Where's Waldo?

Chilling with Elvis and Zpac
in a mansion somewhere liv-
ing off their royalties.

What story does
your family always
tell about you?

There’s one that they say

_ that really shows my love to
° be the center of attention. I
was really little, like 5 or 6,
and someone told ajoke that I
didn’t really, get and everyone
was laughing so I stopped and
said, “Mom, I can laugh, want
I to hear my laugh?” Of course
she says yes and all I do is say
4' “HA” really loud but with no
feeling and everyonejust burst
out laughing. It’s one of my
mom’s favorite stories.

If you could choose to stay a
certain age forever, what age
would itbe?

I’d want to be 26 [be]cause hopefully by
then l‘|l either be at ESPN or an offen-
sive coordinator for a Division I football
program. Plus l’Il still be devilishly hand-
some.

Describe yourself in three
words. .
Motivated, hard-working, and goofy.

 

Genlev goes glob & gives back ,

r the poor across the world

 

 

 

_MONDl-\‘Y, OCTOBER 8, 2012

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&life

By Janey Fugate
STAF F WRITER

With his hair disheveled and his shirt-
tail untucked, Michael Hanson ‘Ol,
31-years-old, paced the dark auditorium
stage in front of a huge screen. Photo-
graphs of Torres del Paine in Patagonia,
shepherds in the craggy hills of Peru,
and the Ecuadorean Amazon ﬁlled the
screen behind him with both their sheer
scope and exoticism.

The images Hanson presented in
Stackhouse Theater last Wednesday are
the fruits of his photography work from
25 trips in 16 countries over seven years.
The story of his career as a photojournal-
ist is as arresting as his published work.

Alter graduating from Washington
& Lee in 2001 with a degree in Span-
ish, Hanson was drafted to the Atlanta
Braves’ minor league team. On the team,
Hanson became the bridge between the
American players and the Spanish-
speaking Dominicans because of his lan-
guage skills. It was this interaction that
piqued his interest in Latin America and
subsequently in photojournalism. '

Now he is an internationally recog-
nized photographer. Hanson’s photos
have been published in National Geo-
graphic and the New York Times, and
are in the collection of pop-singer Elton
John. Last week, his work led him to the
not-so-exotic Lexington, Va., to tell his
own story at his alma mater.

“My camera is my voice,” said Han- .
son. He sees himself as a “visual story- 
teller”'and uses the camera to explore
his primary passion: the source of con-
sumer items.

Hanson explained that the overarching
theme of much of his work is the idea
of tracing everyday objects’ raw materi-
als back to their birthplace and then in-
vestigating the impact of their removal. ; g
The gold in a man’s teeth or the coffee '
in your console have travelled far from
their original extraction where they have
transformed the earth.

This search for the raw, most basic .
source of such consumer items has led
Hanson to document an oil company in
the Ecuadorean Amazon, cacao beans in
Venezuela, a gold mine in Chile, and a
dam in Patagonia. '

Not all ofhis work is as environmental-
ly sensitive as these projects. Although
Hanson has worked on more glamorous
projects for travel magazines, he said, “I
don’t love taking pictures of blue skies
and beaches.” -

There is a component of social justice
that shines through his camera lens and
colors much ofhis work. No matter what
he does, Hanson stands passionately be-

er is a better consumer.”

 

, W&L gets a snapshot of Hanson

Renowned world photographer Michael Hanson ‘OI

returns to his alma mater to share his work and life philosophy

PHOTO COURTESY OFMICHAEL HANSON, NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC

bind the idea that an “informed c0nsum_ A kayaker navigates the crisp sparkling sea waters near the western coast of Vancouver Island. This
photograph was recently featured this year in “National Geographic.”

(late 61 BITE outofiex.

We all know Pure Eats - the burger joint
with donuts that never quite seems to be
open (and it‘s actually not open Monday) but
totes an amazing reputation in the Lexington
area. That reputation has yet to be proven
wrong, because Pure Eats has shown itself
to be the master of donuts and the keeper of
amazing recipes.

Pure Eats donuts are known to disappear
from the counters long before lunch time
(and even more quickly on busy meeting
days like Friday and Saturday). This legend
is well earned, as Pure Eats is home to a “do-
nut artist" who crafts the menu to satisfy our
sweet tooth addictions. While this joint is
well known for its burgers and hand-crafted
milkshakes (which are also delicious, but I
can only eat so much in one day’), its perfect-

ly-sized, three-bite donuts are the
only handmade variety in

Lexington.

On a chilly fall

morning, l en-

tered Pure

Eats to pur-

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EATBu_/"fets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday — Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm

Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm

A Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm

Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm

chase six donuts for a total ofsix dollars and
a penny (a dozen costs ten dollars), and l left
with the satisfaction of pleasant service and
a wide array of tasty options. The donut art-
ist at Pure Eats creates a specialty donut for
each day and switches between options ev-
ery few days, providing for a lot of ﬂavorful
variety.

After taking one donut of each ﬂavor, I

decided to begin with the plain donut: cake- »

like in texture. this was a lightly sweet treat,
not too sugary or overwhelming in ﬂavor,
and great for those who don‘t always enjoy
sweets. The Margarita donut was the special
of the day, and marked with a light green
icing and a salt sprinkled center, it was an
interesting combination of salty sweetness
and the possibility of tequila-soaked batter.
Although it wasn’t my favorite. it offered an
interesting take on the classic donut.

The Banana Pudding donut was outright
delicious, providing just the right amount
of real banana flavor to not make me think
I was eating a banana. Its tasty recipe and
tantalizing aroma sent it to the top of my

 

Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am
Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

l-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, \/,A 24450
540-463-3478
wvvw.Ieehi.com _See our menu online

 Twitter @berkysfood  Find us on Face book

list. Cinnamon sugar, Pure Eat’s classic do-
nut choice (available year round), is a solid
choice for those who do not like icing but en-
joy the sweetness of a topping. On the other
hand, the S’mores donut lacked the classic
“S’more” ﬂavor, failing to balance the dry
graham cracker crumbs with chocolate icing
and a hidden marshmallow topping.

Of these options, my favorite donut (al- I

most in a tie with Banana Pudding) had to be
the Reese’s Pieces donut. Glazed in a won-
derfully light peanut-butter glaze, this donut
tops the ﬂavor chart and fuels my amusement
by including mini Reese‘s pieces in the cen-
ter.

Simply stated, Pure Eats does donuts right.
It isn’t a matter of where to buy your morn-
ing treat donuts, but rather, which donut to
get. l suggest following your eye’s taste bud,
because either way you can’t go wrong with
this hole-in-one donut shop. '

(Pure Eats

» Tues: 1 lam-8pm j
Wed-Sati:i.8am-i8pn't 4: '

 

iOpen.:

 
  
   

Sun: 1 1aim—i8pn:t 7

Where to Got V p
107 N. ‘Main Street;
Lexington, VA .-.g_ ‘I

fCost Rangei .:
' . $

By L.éa.h «ease
js TA If F w R

 

° THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

arts&|ife

 

Spotted: celeb looies

Whoa, is that Britney? Stars ﬁna’
Compiled ,by Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

   
  
    

Curtis corell‘1$ak    

Draco Malfoy

  Davis Turn'1kaD.rake  

their doppelgangers on campus a .

Lauren Woodie '14 T
aa Blake Lively  

7» ~

 
  

 

  

Look Who’s baaaaaaaaaaaaaok!  

Alumni of all ages, past and present, returned to campus to celebrate Homecoming Weekend and shared memories

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee is a place oftradition; however, as the motto goes, W&L_is “not unmindful ofthe future." When talking to returning alumni, the glint oftheir past days is still present in their eyes. The general
‘consensus among Generals ofall ages is W&L will always remain home to any student. past or present. Although various aspects of campus are constantly changing, the timeless tradition travels on.

 
     

Greg Stillman ‘74 relaxes in the up-
graded, newly renovated D-Hall.

Greg Stillman ‘74 on the timeless college years:
“Colleges and universities have a sense of place.
It’s like reliving your experience. Things are so
similar that it’s like I’m in a time machine.”

I974... The year the men s lacrosse team made it

to the Division 1 Final Four c/vanzpionships.

.5, _ Ir ,a vv 9-

Young alums Annie Moore ‘12 and Zoe
Yarborough ‘12 are reunited again.

Annie Moore ‘12 on advice to students: “En-
joy all of your time here as an undergraduate. I
truly believe it is the best place in the world... I
love seeing everyone. I feel like I never left, and
I love it.”

Zoe ‘Yarborough ‘12 on coming back after
graduating in May: “lt‘s surreal. W&L is my fa-
vorite place on earth. l1’s different as an alumnus
but equally as fun.” .

2012... Tl7cv1/‘ear Ille 25tli .‘l/lock Convention suc-
ces.s_'/1'//ly prec/ictecl Mitt Romne_1‘ as the Republi-
can l’res[(lentia/ nominee.

Cynthia Smith ‘02, Sally Mays ‘O2, and
Kate Blocher ‘02 are all smiles.

Cynthia Smith ‘02, Sally Mays ‘02, Kate
Blocher ‘02 on changes to campus: “Everything
is nicer and fancier, but still the same. Even though
things got an upgrade, W&L is still very similar.”

2002... The year sorority row was established.
with the completed construction of the first five
housesfor Greek women. '

1 l I
O
O
1 Hunter Brooks '1 5
aka Ron Weasley 1
O
O
- g 
Dr Marti '1 3 aka
Ashton Kutcher  
O

     

John Allgood ‘O7 unwinds in the book-
store as he peruses some literature. _

John Allgood ‘07 on favorite memories here:
“[Homecoming] was one of my favorite weekends
as a student, and I really like it as an alum. It hasn’t
changed much.”

2007... The year W&L received a $100 million 
one ofthe largest ever donations to a liberal arts col-
lege in history.

 

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

 

..sports

Kyle laeger

The discussion of baseball’s top individual
prize, Most Valuable Player, ignites into de-
bate immediately following the regular sea-
son. This year, the candidates are particularly
compelling. My pick for American.League
MVP is Miguel Cabrera and Ryan Braun for
the National League MVP.

In the AL, fans are torn between two
incredible regular season performers. On the
one hand you have Mike Trout, who turned
the Los Angeles Angels around almost single
handedly — and as a rookie no less. There is
also Detroit Tiger Miguel Cabrera, who won
the Triple Crown this season, leading the
league in batting average (.330), RBI’s (139),
and home runs (44). This achievement is un-
heard of — the last winner was Carl Yastrzem-
ski in 1967. While Mike Trout’s production
was similarly unbelievable, Miguel Cabrera
deserves the MVP. Cabrera not only out per-
formed Trout in the major statistical catego-
ries that typical measure success, but Cabrera
led his team to a playoff berth, something
Trout failed to do. Winning is a priority in the
league, and the fact that Cabrera’s team has
gone farther this season, with similar support-
ing casts, should be the ultimate tie-breaker.
Also, Trout is merely a rookie. It may be in the
league’s best interest to defer his accomplish-
ments until slightly later in his career. If Trout
is given MVP as a rookie, there is not much
he can do to top that accomplishment. Trout
will undoubtedly improve as he matures, and
the accolades he receives should reflect that.
Fundamentally, this debate comes down to
a clash of old school vs. new school think-
ing. Cabrera has led the league in the major
categories of success. Trout led the league in

 

Hailey Hartley

WAR (wins a Now that
above re- the regular
placement) season is

— a new statistic
that is supposed
to measure total

  
 
  

lll-.'..

done and play-
off teams have

performance. I
consider myself
a traditionalist
when it comes to
America’s oldest

As post season baseball begins, many wonder who
was the best during the regular season. Who was the
MVP in each of the divisions?

Kyle and Hailey give you their takes.

been set journalists
around the world
prepping their cases
for MLB Ameri-
can League and
National League

and most storied
athletic pastime, and for this reason, I am
picking Cabrera for AL MVP.

In the NL, San Francisco Giant Bust-
er Posey seems to be the popular choice. I be-
lieve that Milwaukee Brewer Ryan Braun is
getting an unfair shake because of his perfor-
mance enhancing drug scandal this past year.
Ryan won his appeal of the suspension, but the
damaging effects on his image have carried
over to this season. This season, Braun is ﬁrst
in home runs, runs scored and OPS, second

in RBI’s and hits, and third in batting average

in the NL. These statistics should be enough
for anyone to win an MVP award. However,
his tainted image will keep him from what
he deserves. No one will be rooting for last
years “PED-using former MVP”, especially
not the committee who selects MVP winners,
the Baseball Writers Association of America.
The BWAA is also in charge of selecting hall
of fame members, and the association has

shown that PED use effects their decisions.’

I believe that without preconceived notions
of Braun and his choices, Ryan Braun would
have a great shot at winning the MVP award
for the NL.

MVP’s. The Amer-
ican League seems to be down to two play-
ers, Los Angeles Angel Mike Trout and De-
troit Tiger Miguel Cabrera, and honestly if
anyone gives a ﬁrst place vote someone else
they’re either blind or stupid. It’s the rookie
sensation vs. the ﬁrst Triple Crown winner in
over 40 years. The National League could
be considered down to two as well, Milwau-
kee Brewer Ryan Braun, and San Francisco
Giant Buster Posey (Pittsburg Pirate Andrew
McCutchen can also be made an argument
for). The man who faced steroid scandal vs.
one of the best offensive catchers of all time
(coming off of a huge injury).

It’s easy to argue Cabrera deserves the AL
MVP. The Triple Crown is a huge achieve-
ment, one of the hardest things in baseball to
achieve. He’s basically ranked ﬁrst in every
major hitting category. But in all honesty,
Mike Trout deserves to receive the AL MVP
in addition to his inevitable Rookie of the
Year award. The guy was second in batting
average, ﬁrst in stolen bases, and a defen-
sive weapon. The fact that the Angels were
unable to get to the playoffs will hurt him.
I’m not sure exactly what the made up stat

K but its life. Buster Posey on the other hand

of wins above replacement means, but Trout
owns it, not even close. Basically, without
Trout, the Angels would have been an after-

thought, and not even close to a playoff con— 3

tending team. Albert Pujols deﬁnitely would
be taking more of a hit from the media. Trout
brings charisma to the team and is an offen-
sive and defensive beast. Isn’t that the deﬁ-
nition of valuable? Sure, Cabrera rocks the
crown, but Trout was irreplaceable this sea-
son. If he doesn’t win it this year, chances
are, it won’t be his only shot at the award
during his career.

The National League is a bit more com-
plicated. Ryan Braun is a heck of a player,
no denying that. But there is this little issue
that is his positive performance enhancing
drug test from last year. Yes, it was ruled that
the test was mishandled and therefore not ac-
curate, and yes, that was last season. Braun
will always be covering his tracks from it,

whether he did steroids or not, his name will ,

forever be connected to them. Yes it sucks,

has not been connected to steroids and had
a fantastic season. That random WAR stat,
yeah, he’s got it. The NI. battle average title,
he’s the ﬁrst catcher to win it in years. Not
to mention this season was a huge comeback
year for him, returning from a season ending
injury in May oflast year. While Braun may
be the better player, it seems unlikely that he
will get the National League MVP, and Posey
deserves to take the award home.

7- Double the gratification

For Buell, sharing victories is what she values most A

By Pat Mccarron
5 TA F F w R I T E R
Two weeks ago at the ITA South-
east Regional Singles Championship,
sophomore Meghan Buell fended off her
six opponents to take the crown as the
toumament’s winner. While victories in
individual athletic competitions can ap-
pear to many as a gratifying sign of ath-
letic superiority over the opponent, Buell
thinks differently.

Buell’s success did not end with
her singles championship, as she and ju-
nior Claire Cahill defeated the ﬁeld in the
toumament’s doubles competition. Such
victories are what Buell values most.

“It’s so exciting to win some-
thing so big with someone else because
we really had to work together and get
through the rough spots as a team,” said
Buell W'E HAVE TO ATTRIBUTE THE
QUOTE. “[It] makes it that much more
meaningful when we came out on top in
the end.”

This approach to tennis .is re-
ﬂective of the team’s mentality as a
whole. Although tennis is largely an in-
dividual sport, Washington and Lee’s
FIRST REFERENCE USE THE FULL

NAME women’s tennis team makes ex-l

tra efforts to insure the team is united.
Coach Erin Ness, the team’s head coach,
makes use of a simple yet effective man-
tra: be the loudest team on the court. The
constant support from the sidelines has
resulted in the team’s unbridled unity.
For Buell, this is the most distinguishing
characteristic of W&L’s women’s tennis
team.

“The most unique aspect of the
W&L women’s tennis team is the great
chemistry that our team has together,”
said Buell. “It’s hard when you are out
on the court by yourself, but I think the
closeness we have as a group helps us to
compete for one another and succeed as

a team.”

Compete for one another. It would not
be enough merely to cheer from the side-
lines. By investing themselves in their
teammate’s matches, individual victories
feel like team victories. This was the ap-
proach the team took to Indoor Nation-
als last winter, the victory Buell says she
found most gratifying because it was the
team’s ﬁrst major victory that she helped
inﬂuence.

Buell’s accolades—an ll-3 record in
singles and a 21-4 record in doubles last
year~—have certainly garnered plenty of
awards, trophies and medals. Just ex-
pect her doubles championships to have
a more special spot in her trophy case.
This Thursday the team heads to M0-
bile, Alabama to begin the ITA National
Small College Championships. W&L’s
team will be easily distinguishable from
the stands: they will be the loudest. ‘

Courtesy of Generals Sports Info

Gennies struggle

in ODAC

Field Hockey ﬁnishes week 0-2

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hock-
ey team lost a close game against East-
ern Mennonite at the W&L Turf Field to
ﬁnish off last week.

The Generals tried to ﬁght back from
a twolpoint deﬁcit but the Royals were
able to hold on for the 2-1 win. The win
breaks an Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference losing streak for Eastern Men-
nonite.

Junior defender Carol Brinkley and
junior midﬁelder Jessica Blanks scored
for Eastern Mennonite. The Generals
responded late in the second half with
a goal by sophomore forward Candice
Stefanie.

The Generals stayed aggressive on
offense and had a chance to tie the game
as time expired. The tying shot by junior
midﬁelder Alex Hensleigh missed wide
of the goal. _

The loss to Eastern Mennonite
marked the second loss of the week for
the Generals. Last Wednesday, the Gen-
erals fell 4-0 to top-ranked Lynchburg
College in a Conference matchup.

Lynchburg tallied their ﬁrst goal 12
minutes into the ﬁrst half on a W&L
own goal. Senior attack Lindsay Leon-
ard, senior midﬁelder Shelly Milks, and
sophomore attack Kelsey Link scored
the other three goals for Lynchburg.

Senior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne had
a career-high 21 saves for the Generals.
With the performance Kyne has moved
into second on the all-time saves list at
W&L with 212 career saves. She only
trails the all-time record of 248 saves
held by Courtney Harrison.

The two losses last week drop the
Generals to a 3-8 overall record and a
1-3 ODAC record. The team will face
Shenandoah on Tues., Oct. 9 at 5 p.m. on
the W&L Turf Field. On Thurs., Oct. 11
the Generals will play a nonconference
game at McDaniel at 4 p.m.

O

W&L Rushing Offense
Breezes Past E&H

Football wins big in front of alumni

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Generals took advantage of 503
total rushing yards in their homecoming
conference game against Emory & Hen-
ry on Saturday afternoon to win 45-28.

Senior running back Luke Heinsohn
scored the ﬁrst three touchdowns and
extra point attempts for W&L. Heinsohn
had 138 rushing yards on only 13 car-
ries.

Senior running back Sasha Vandalov
scored the ﬁnal touchdown of the ﬁrst
half on a 21-yard run into the endzone.
The Generals headed ' into the locker
room at halftime with a 31-7 lead after
Heinsohn completed a 27-yard ﬁeld goal
with seconds remaining on the clock.
Vandalov ﬁnished the game with 85
yards on seven carries.

After being scored against on the
opening drive of the second half, the
Generals brought the score back up to
38-13 as junior quarterback Nick Lom-
bardo threw to a 13-yard pass .to senior
tight end Eli Chester for Chester’s ﬁrst
touchdown of the season.

Senior running back Brett Murray

scored a touchdown from one yard out
with 12:15 left in the game. Murray ﬁn-
ished the contest with 59 yards on 15
carries.

Lombardo carried the ball 23 times
and ran for 164 total yards, breaking his
career high record. He also passed for 50
yards on three completed passes.

 

'4

Courtesy o Generals Sprts Info

The Generals’ defense was paced
by senior safety Jake Pelton and senior
defensive lineman Greg Barton. Pelton
ﬁnished the game with 12 tackles and
Barton had two sacks and four tackles.

The Generals play again at home on
Saturday at 1:00 pm, hosting the Yellow
Jackets of Randolph-Macon College.



 

 

 

 

s - THE nine-rum PHI -

M o N DAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers
310

The number of starts in a row that Americal goalkeeper
Brad Friedel had in the Premier League. The streak took
over eight years to compile, starting in May of 2004. He
was dropped by Tottenham before Sunday's game versus

Aston Villa in favor of newly signed Hugo Lloris.

33

The total number of years since the West Indies has won the
world title in cricket. They defeated Sri Lanka on Sunday to

take the World Twenty20 title, their ﬁrst since 19.79.

11

The total number of games that the Cleveland Browns have

Generals defend their territory

W&L defense keeps opponents oﬁ’ the board all week

By Hailey Hartley
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Generals men’s soccer team had two
ODAC conference games this week, beat-
ing Shenandoah 4-0 Wednesday, and tying
Lynchburg 0-0 on Saturday.

Washington and Lee dominated Shenando-
ah, scoring three goals in the ﬁrst half. From
there on out it was smooth sailing for the Gen-
erals. Senior Conor Starr had two tallies, and
junior Alex Zelinski added the third, rounding
out the Generals ﬁrst half goals. Sophomore
Nick Zaharchuk added the fourth and ﬁnal
goal in the ﬁnal minutes of the second half.
Both sophomore Ben Atnipp and fellow soph-
omore Albert Givitailese saw time in goal with
Atnipp recordi-riggtwo saves. W&L recorded
24 shots against Shenandoah in the win.

Lynchburg proved a tougher match-up for
the Generals, resulting in a defensive battle
between the two teams. The homecoming
match-up went into two overtimes before
being called a scoreless tie. W&L had just
three shots on goal, and defensive starters se-
nior Basti Richter, Starr, and ﬁrst-year Cary
Carabasi were able to keep Lynchburg to just
two of their own. The team recorded a save
defending an open net, and goalkeeper Civita-
rese recorded a lone save.

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information
The Generals keep their sights on the

ODAC championship (7-3-l Overall, 4-1-

1 ODAC), playing at Emory and Henry on

Wednesday and at home versus Randolph-
Macon on Saturday at noon.

lost in a row, dating back to last season. The streak contin-
uedon Sunday when the Browns lost to the New York Giants

41-27. The Browns are 0-5 on the season.

soapbox

“I wanted to come out here and play well.
My heart is broken, not for me. My heart is
broken for my teammates and my coaching
staff, and all these fans that have been so
great to Us this year.”

-RellrlngAllantaBravecl1lpperJorieeal'lierAllantawas
knoclredoutoftheplqyoflslnuiewlld Cardameagalnst
lhest. LoulscardInals.TheBravesloetthesln¢legame
plqyofrroundﬁ-8. From ESPN.com

“We deﬁnitely sent a message out to
the whole country. It’s not the old South
Carolina.”

-south carollna tailback Marcus latllmore after defeating
lfieUnlversllyofGeorgla35-7onSaturday.SouﬂiCarollna

Volleyball falls to CNU

Generals see hope in loss to the ﬁfth rankedteam in the nation

By Shelby Flores
STA F F w R l T E R

The Washington and Lee Volleyball team
remains optimistic about the season after fall-
ing 3-0 to ﬁfth-ranked Christopher Newport
University in Newport News, Va. last Tues-
day.

The Generals narrowly lost the ﬁrst two
games 25-19 and 25-22 alter ﬁghting back
from deﬁcits of up to nine points. In the third
game, the Captains’ dominating offensive

play ﬁnished the game 25-8. The loss drops‘

the Generals to a 14-7 overall record.

Senior middle hitter Bailey Jensen and se-
nior right side hitter Christie Fellows led the
CNU attack. Jensen led the team with 13 kills
and Fellows added 10.

Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles led the
Generals with 12 kills. First-year outside hit-
ter Anna Lausberg added ﬁve.

Junior setter Meghan Meleski and ﬁrst-
year setter Alex Kinzer split the setting duties
in the match. Meleski tallied 12 assists and
Kinzer contributed nine in a new setting rota-
tion for the Generals.

Meleski and Head Coach Bryan Snyder
were not devastated by the loss to CNU. In
fact, both think the loss inspired the team for
future matches against ranked opponents.

“It was actually very encouraging,” Me-
leski said. ‘‘It showed us that even with a dif-
ferent lineup we are able to compete with top
teams.”

ourtesy o -‘

Snyder says that Generals will continue
working in practice to achieve their goals.

“At this point, our focus is on getting bet-
ter every day, trying to win an ODAC title,
and then trying to win a National Champion-
ship,’-’ Snyder said.

The Generals return to the Warner Center
on Tuesday, Oct. 9 against Shenandoah. This
weekend the team will travel to Memphis,
Tenn. to play four non-conference matches at
the Rhodes Tournament.

wontholrlolhgamelnarowandlsa-0on1heseason.Thq
faceFlorldanextweek,anolherSECteamthatlsundefealad.
FromESPN.com

 

CONGRATULATIONS TO HAYDEN
WHITE FOR ‘FINISHING SECOND
IN THE SINGLES COMPETITION
AT THE USTA/ITA REGIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIPS LAST WEEK!

GOOD LUCK TO WOMEN'S TENNIS AS
THEY TRAVEL DOWN TO MOBILE, ALA.
T0 COMPETE IN THE ITA NATIONAL
SMALL COLLEGE CHAMPIONSHIPS. THE
CHAMPIONSHIPS START ON THURSDAY
AND LAST UNTIL SUNDAY.

ondeck

 

Cross Country

Generals streaking

Women is soccer lzasn ’t lost since Sept. 22 .

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Women’s soccer team had a busy

The Generals won their ﬁrst game of the

week, taking home three wins to bring their week, beating Roanoke in overtime 3-2 on

record to 9-2-1 (6-l-l ODAC).

 

..-L.t4.p. - ~15 ~4 » -. .~. 4: L- . ..
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Tuesday

Wed nesday

   
   

Wednesday. After a quick goal by senior Ain-

t

Thursday

sley Diagle, the Generals fell behind 2-1 at
the half. A goal by ﬁrst-year Becca Dunn in
the second half was the equalizer that brought
the Generals and Roanoke into overtime.
Diagle scored the ﬁnal goal in overtime to
secure the win. First-year Addie Healy re-
corded two saves in the contest while spend-
ing nearly 103 minutes in the net.

This weekend, the Generals hosted East-
ern Mennonite and Greensboro, shutting
them out 9-0 ‘and 4-0 respectively. Both
games were controlled almost entirely by
W&L. Katherine Rush had ﬁve goals during
the weekend, junior Alexis Blight and sopho-
more KJ Lancaster both recorded two goals.

Against EMU, junior Kingsley Schroeder
spent the full game in the net, making three
saves for the Generals. The Royals were un-
able to get a shot off in the ﬁrst half. The Gen-
erals outshot the Royals 40-3.

Healy returned to the net for the game ver-
sus Greensboro. She made four saves for the
Generals in 90 minutes of play.

With just five games left in the regular
season, W&L will travel to Shenandoah on
Wednesday before hosting St. Mary’s on Sat-
urday.

Saturday
M: Desales Inv; W: CNU

Field Hockey

vs Shenandoah 5pm

Women’s Soccer

at Shenandoah 7 pm

at McDaniel 4 pm

at St. Mary's 3:30 pm

Swimming

Men’s Soccer V atE&H7Pm V5‘-R'M3-29"‘
V 0 | | e y b a | | V5 5hen8nd0ah 7Pm Rhodes Tournament Rhodes Tournament
Football VSR-Mlpml

vs Centre 2:30 pm

 

