   

278.755
R551
v.|lb
vio.q_‘2..

 
 
    
  
   
       
 
    
   

' W LE U  
I ' ‘O
O ' . .
BY THE STUDENTSAND FOR ‘THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVII, NUMBER 22
O
‘ Traveller drivers were

recognized for their dedi~

cation to student safety on

Friday evening.
0

.\ \ ’

HI-\&L 1
Dear seniors...

So begins a love letter to
W&L. Seniors look back
at their most memorable
moments as they head into
their futures.

Friend us on
Facebook!

 

F. @ringtumphi

Have a story ideafor us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

F acebook with 

   
   
      
 

     
 

       
  

0
Arts& Life...7 ' F ‘  “   4 ' . ~ i
 Six W&L 
W4 ‘ Wednesda I ‘ .. i V
2»    3/ PHI AVVARDS .
»  Partly Cloudy A ~ , s  A
 _   " 0. 0 _  :Every year, the Phi recognizes four seniors from the
60 ' 83 A ‘' ‘graduating class for their impressive achievements. Edu-
*  *'" W?" W‘ ' m'*""" . ' cation goes“far beyond the classroom, and these students
 .4’?!  Z I rsday I have been noted for everything that they have done both
 -3: Part|yC|0UdY u [1 g :2,“-tr;:.ff.‘:3i:‘.:“:c:::r.%i;:e;::::‘;::i::;.:;:"e:::’;:§
 ” ’ 0 ° ° ' aisingover $30,000 for St. Jude’s Children’s Hospital,
7 7 _g  7_____i5iQ__   B Dane Davis ' these seniors stood out for their remarkable commitment
- y 4 ': anddedication. Regardless of what they have done, they
]7r[d(]; STAFF WRITER . , .
. y I V . .. . ~ 0 ha  made the most out of their four years at W&L.
~ ‘ Isolate t—storms  ' 1 ‘Congratulations to all of the winners!
59° 80°         
' After submitting the highest number of apes!’ ° " ' r i
’ ’”"’ FF" W ’F”’’ plications yet, six out of sixteen W&L students
\ S 61 I Z! Fda V have received Fulbright awards this year. ‘.  _
’ -   V After competing with almost 10,000 stu-. ’ -‘\
W Isolate tstorms dents across the country, seniors Max Chaps. ., V/ l“ .3 ’
58°. 83° nick, Derek Barisas, Rachel Urban, Isaac '
 V, H ._,,;__.,,___.. ..-,_,.,__ Webb, Bethany Reynolds and Kendre Barnes . .
HIM‘ , were selected for the Fulbright Award. _ student WhQ’.§.,gQi§1g.,_§  _ 
 " A  Sunda) -The Fulbright Scholar Program isan inter— kﬁet owner, not , j 
.g:;V\A‘,v-*  Partly Cloudy national exchange program sponsored by the‘ ‘ ofalab,  g l
O  61-O_ 840 U.S. government. It provides both US scholars " t;oAre'c_ei=’ve. M E‘:
W   7 and foreign scholars the opportunity to educate , S’ Q 5 A, 7 ‘ «=1 
. V...‘ 4_i"'""' WWW students, conduct research, and become im¥ M   
V?‘ “'4 Mme/I 2 ' V
  er ( C l mersed in their host country’s culture.’ -

   

 

--....

LEXll‘lGTON, VA 24450
MAY 1 6 2013

WAHNGTN 3 LEE UNIVERSITY

 
   

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

new

 

Travell

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER



pi

Director of Public Safety Michael
Young, Traveller Chair Megan Bock,
and Traveller Communications chair
Katie Jarrell presented a Certiﬁcate of
Recognition Award to Traveller Transit
drivers Dennis Patterson, Jerry Massie,
Chris Fauber, and James Hickman in a
ceremony Friday evening in Commons
Lobby.

John Smith was away, but will re-
ceive an award from Young next week.

“I could never imagine doing the job
that they do,” said Bock in an interview.
“They are very patient, they work very

hard, and I think everyone here really -

appreciates them.”

Bock described how the drivers go
out of their way to keep students safe.
For example, she said drivers‘ will pick
up students stuck at Windfall even if it is
past 2 a.m., when Traveller is scheduled
to shut down.

Patterson, who has been with Travel-
ler for two years, said he was grateful for
the recognition.

Impact

In the 2011-2012 school year, there
were 67,027 rides recorded on Traveller,
up from 56,854 the previous year.

Dean David Leonard, who has seen
Traveller evolve since he came to W&L
in 2003, described Traveller’s impact.

“Ideas for, improving the system
are often implemented,” he said, “and
we’ve witnessed a decline in the number
of charges for driving under the inﬂu-
ence and other tangential issues pertain-
ing to the law.”

Young said in an interview that al-
though one cannot measure the amount
oflives saved from Traveller, the system
has done a lot of good.

“The best part is the amount of kids
we get home safe,” he said.

“Most students are good passengers and good citizens,

but overcrowding at some oft/1e bus stops occasionally

leads to pushing and shaving to secure a seal. ”

DAVE LEONARD Dean of Student Life

 

2016 Mock Con Tri-
chairs announced

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

The 2016 Mock Convention Tri-
Chairs were announced last weekend.

Andrew McCaffery was named Gen-
eral Chair, Katherine Hodges was named
Political Chair and Tanner Waggoner
was named Executive Treasurer of the
quadrennial tradition at Washington and
Lee.

All Tri-Chairs are ﬁrst-year student
because the convention will be held dur-
ing their senior year. '

McCaffery said that he was drawn to

search on a grassroots and national level

' and acquiring prominent political speak-

ers for the convention.

Hodges’s interest in the position
comes from a serious interest in politics.
“Tri-Chairs have the most important re-
sponsibilities in Mock Convention and
I knew that there would be no position
more fulﬁlling in the organization than
Political Chair,” said Hodges.

Waggoner, a ﬁrst-year out of Scott-
sdale, AZ., will take the ﬁnal position

“We have already started working, believe it or not, af-

ter being selected the second weekend of Spring Term. ’

1

ANDREW McCAFFERY, General Chair

the position “by the opportunity to man-
age a company, as Mock Convention is
not just an event.”

“Mock Convention has...stuck out
as one of W&L’s most outstanding fea-
tures —- it’s that extra element that dis-
tinguishes us from so many other great,
similar schools,” said McCaffery. “This
is because Mock Convention is rooted in
student involvement, and showcases this
unanimous participation on a national
level.”

Not only is McCaffery excited to get
started on his work, but he also has big
plans and has put the wheels in motion
almost three years before the event. “We
have already started working, believe it
or not, after being selected the second
weekend of Spring Term,” said McCaf-
fery. “We are developing a hiring strat-
egy for the fall, as well as deﬁning our
long-term goals and hopes for the 2016
convention." »

Hodges’s main responsibilities as
Political Chair include overseeing the
regional and state chairs, conducting re-

of Executive Treasurer. The position
includes keeping track of the ﬁnancial
aspect of the event as well as handling
fundraising activities to raise funds.

Waggoner was interested in the po-
sition due to Mock Convention being a
“practical exercise of American Civics,
but also, an educational opportunity for
students to receive real-world experience
in nearly any subject that may interest
them.”

Waggoner said he looks forward to
building chemistry between the three
Tri-Chairs and recruiting- a Steering
Committee that has the same type of
chemistry.

“My primary goal for the convention
is to recruit an interdependent and moti-
vated sector of students for that speciﬁc
purpose,” said Waggoner. “Stemming
from the Tri-Chairs down to the State
Delegates, Mock Con is a student-run
organization, and its success depends
entirely on how we, as a collaborative
student-body, choose to function.”

Leonard continued to support what
Traveller has brought to the campus.

“It’s purely anecdotal, but increased
ridership has made more students aware
of those who may need extra assis-
tance,” he said, “and our students have
been more active in ensuring that intoxi-
cated students are placed in good hands
for the evening.”

“It does an awful lot of good, and
people don’t think about that,”‘Young
said.

Student Reaction

Young said that he is sometimes dis-
appointed in the way students treat driv-
ers and the Traveller system as a whole.

“It seems that there are a lot more
students now who take it for granted,”
he said. .

Leonard agreed that some students

can disrespect the Traveller system.
“Most students are good passengers

. and good citizens, but overcrowding at

some ofthe bus stops occasionally leads
to pushing and shoving to secure a seat,”
he said. “On occasion, those who have
consumed too much alcohol are unruly
to Traveller monitors and/or drivers.”

Bock said she also wishes students
gave more recognition.

In addition, Leonard added that many
people would prefer seeing less trash at
various Traveller stops.

Young expanded on the need for dif-
ferent attitudes from students.

“People work hard to make sure our
students are safe...and they shouldn‘t
be abused or cussed or thrown up on or
things like that,” he said. “Students need
to be a little more respectful...and re-
spect the system for what it is."

Knapp and Conner appointed to new

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER _

With spring comes new beginnings,
even in the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity faculty.

Elizabeth Knapp, associate provost
and associate professor of geology, has
been appointed senior assistant to the
president and director of the Johnson
Program in Leadership and Integrity.
Marc Conner, the Jo M. and James M.
Ballengee Professor of English and head
of the English Department and director,
was appointed associate provost.

Elizabeth Knapp

Knapp graduated from W&L in 1990
and returned in 1997 as assistant profes-
sor of geology. She received her PhD in
environmental science from the Univer-

campus positions

sity of Virginia, and teaches geochemis-
try, hydrology, and biochemistry.

Knapp has served as associate dean
of the college for four years, balancing
the responsibility with teaching and re-
search in the Geology department. She
joined the provost’s ofﬁce July 2011.
Some of her responsibilities included
undergraduate academic advising, new
faculty orientation, student research op-
portunities and teaching award nomina-
tions.

Previously held by Valerie Cushman,
the position has been redeﬁned.

Knapp will work with about 160
Johnson scholars currently attending
W&L, as well as administer the new
Johnson endowment, designed to help
Johnson scholars conduct special sum-
mer projects and research. She will also
asses the Johnson program, and work on
initiatives for the president’s ofﬁce.

Marc Conner
Conner joined W&L’s faculty in 1996

after receiving his B.A. from University
of Washington in English and Philoso-

‘ phy and PhD in English literature from

Princeton University. Conner created the
Spring Term program in Ireland, taking
W&L students there to experience the
literature and culture of Ireland since
he “started it in 2000” and is director of
Spring Term. Conner also teaches
courses in Shakespeare, the Bible as lit-
erature and courses in literature and reli-
gion and literature and philosophy. His
appointment as director of Spring Term
in 2010 has led to the creation of almost
300 new courses. He will continue to
serve as director while also serving as
associate provost.

‘‘I’m very excited about taking on
these new challenges, but also I feel a

bit daunted because it is a new set of
responsibilities,” said Conner. There’s a
set of high expectations for this position
but I’m looking forward to it, because
that’s obviously what I was seeking.”

Conner will perform two main roles
in his new position.

“There’s a whole lot of initiatives 1
get to work on, like spring term, faculty,
and students together, the other part is
more open-ended it’s really supporting
the new provost and all the other aspects
ofhisjob,” said Conner.

Conner will continue to teach one
course a year and will teach his Bible as
literature course the -upcoming fall term.

  

 

 

 

MON.DAY, MAY 13, 2013

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

EC sets
budget
allocations

By Rachel Adams-Heard
STAFF WRITER

The Executive Cointnittee held in-
terviews with student organizations to
decide budget allocations for the 2013-
2014 academic year last week.

Each year ar_ound 50 to 60 school
recognized organizations ﬁght for funds.
These funds come from the student ac-
tivity fee, which pays for student organi-
zations, as well as Traveler.

The process of allocating budgets to

5 these organizations is not an easy task.

The EC spends several days holding
interviews and meetings until an agree-
ment is made. Vice President of the Stu-
dent Body Daniel Raubolt plays a criti-
cal role in the process. As VP, Raubolt
is responsible for proposing an overall
budget plan to the rest ofthe Committee.

The EC looks over each organiza-
tion’s projected allocation as proposed
by the VP until all members reach a
consensus. Members then vote on the
overall budget, and the majority decides
whether or not it is passed.

“Usually, the General Activities
Board, Contact Committee, the Student
BarAssociation (the law schools student
government), and Mock Con receive the
most funding," said Raubolt.

These organizations all have high
expenses and are unable to generate the
necessary revenue on their own. Smaller
organizations that may not have as many
expenses or that earn money through
their own means typically receive less
funding from the EC.

Junior Matt Hesser was one of the
many student leaders vying for funds.
Hesser is presidentof I in 4, an all—malc
student organization that aims to prevent
rape and sexual assault.

Hesser said he wishes to expand the
organization and change the message
from one of harsh statistics to an encour-
agement of healthy relationships. As is
often the case, this expansion brings an

increased need for funding.

This year, the General Activities
Board was given the biggest alloca-
tion with‘ $120,000, followed by the
Student Bar Association with $109,000
and Contact Committee with $91,000.
Other large budgets include Fancy Dress
($18,000), Mock Trial ($16,500). Nabors
Service League ($14,000) and Mock Con
($10,000). 1 in 4 received $5,500, which
is comparable to the $5,250 allocated to
its female equivalent Speak.

Below is the full list of budget allo-
cations as posted in last Wednesday and
Thursday’s Campus Notices.

23 $l,l00 7

l in 4 $5,500‘
Active Minds $1,400
African Society $750
Arts League $1,500
Brazilian Club $350

Campus Community Coalition $1,500 '

Campus Kitchen $15,000

College Access $1,350
Community Financi_aI Freedom $2,250
Contact Committee $91,000 A
Dance Company $5,600 '
Engineers Without‘ Borders $3,100 I
ESOL $1,300 *
Fancy Dress'$l 8,000

GAB $120,000.

Genl)ev $7,000

German Club $50‘ ' 4
GLBT Equality Initiative $6.000
GRAAC $500 "
Habitat for Humanity $250

In General $4,800

.1 ubilee $900

LIFE $2,75_0

Literacy Campaign $1,000

Men‘s Volleyball Club $2,250
Mindbending $2,250

Mock Con $10,000

Mock Trial $16,500

Model UN $2,500

Muse $2,950 _

Nabors Service League $l4,0_00
l’.L A.Y. $1,500

P4T $2,000

PAACE $5,000

Parliamentary Debate Team $1,500
Peer Counseling $3,500

Political Review $2,000
Production $2,000

Quest Scholars $1,000

Relay for Life $2,000

Rugby $3,500

SABU $2,500

SAIL $6,000

SARAH $750

SBA $109,000

SEAL $1,900

SPEAK $5,250 ,

Student to Student $1-=,000

Students for St. .lt1de'$'l,f:00

WITS $350 '

Pakistan elections
a milestone

By Hannah Howard
STAFF warren

On May I 1 the people of Pakistan took
to the polls in what proved to be a monu-
mental election for the country.

The voting for this election shaped up
to be unlike any other Pakistani elec-
tion in the past. For the ﬁrst time in
the history of the state, political parties
were allowed to campaign in the Feder-
ally Administrated Tribal Areas (FATA).
This region didn’t even have the right to
“one person, one vote” until almost this
century.

Despite strength in the arena of trade,
people in FATA have never held much
-— if any -—- political power. Historically,
political representatives from this area
were not associated with any of the
political parties, but were instead iride-
pendents who merely supported the gov-
ernment at the time in order to receive
resources. .

“With the introduction of free cam-
paigning and the entry of political par-

ties proper into the race, as well as the
large number of independents, it is clear
that old electoral trends may no longer
hold,” said Analyst Zalan Khan, before

the election. “What they are to be re-

place by, however, remains to be seen.”
This landmark election and the cam-
paigning that led to it displayed a ﬁerce
battle between six of Pakistan’s largest
political parties. These include the Awa-
mi National Party (ANP), a left wing,
secular, Pashtun nationalist party; the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM),
a secular, liberal but ﬁscally conserva-
tive group; the Pakistan Muslim League
- Nawaz (PML-N), a center right, con-
serxative party that was the lead_ing op-
position in the outgoing parliament; the
Pakistan Muslim League A Quaid (PML-
Q), a center right party formed by defec-
tors from PML-N; the Pakistan People’s
Party (PPP), a secular, socialist group
that was the incumbent party heading

 

into the May 11 election; and ﬁnally, the
Pakistan Tehreek-e-lnsaf (PTI), an anti-
status quo and anti-corruption party that
was the “wildcard” in this year’_s parlia-
mentary election.

Throughout the campaign season, Pak-
istan has been consumed with violence.
On May 9, the son of former Pakistani
Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani was
kidnapped. People on a motorcycle and
others in a car opened ﬁre on the prime
minister and his son during a campaign
rally then forced his son into a car.

The campaign was also hampered by
threats from the Taliban. The vote that
took place on Saturday was a democratic
milestone for a country ruled for so long
by its military. For quite some time it
looked like this milestone would be pre-
vented by potential suicide bomber at-
tacks at polling stations.

On the eve of the election, one of the
candidates was shot and killed along

with two of his supporters while cam-
paigning in Karachi, the ﬁnancial capital
of the state. The attack was the last of
many along the campaign trail, which
brought the death tdtal to 127 since mid-
April. .

On May 10, as it all was coming to an
end, 600,000 polling staff and 70,000
army and security forces were deployed
to the various stations throughout the
country. The election was one deﬁned
by a “raucous mix of celebration and
violence,” according to reporter Asad
Hashim. -

The ﬁnal voting process had 15,000
candidates competing for 849 seats.
There were explosions at a few polling
stations but overall, the day was marked
by an outpouring of democratic partici-
pation. Voting hours were even extended
in many cities. »

The country must now wait patiently
for the results of this landmark election.

Continued from Fulbright
scholars      

By Krysta Huber

Chapnick added that he believes the
purpose of the Fulbright scholar pro-
grams is to emphasize the importance of
being a cultured individual.

“ln my understanding, the mission of
the Fulbright grant is to provide students
with unique study abroad experiences,”
he said. "Andin doing so, foster cross-
cultural awareness.”

The program offers three different op-
portunities. Students can apply to work
as researchers, English teaching assis-
tants or in the arts. W&L will be repre-

sented in each area.

Chapnick is the ﬁrst W&L student to
be working and studying in the arts pro-
gram. Chapnick will be studying in New
'/.caland, where he will cam a Masters in
Writing for the Page in Poetry at the In-
ternational Institute of Modern Letters at
Victoria University.

He will be completing a Masters thesis,
which in.volves writing a poetry manu-

_ script. Chapnick’s poetry will focus on

the intersections ofpoetry and physics.
In addition to the Master program,
Chapnick will also be auditing graduate-

. level physics classes at Victoria Uni-

versity. And he will be teaching middle
school and high school students how
writing and science can work as comple-
merits.

Chapnick said he is conﬁdent that his
experience will prepare him well for
graduate school and his future.

“I think that the opportunity to live on
my own in a foreign country as a repre-
sentative in the US will teach me a host
of invaluable skills, whatever I do next,”
he said.

Urban and Barnes were selected to
work as English teaching assistants in
Bangladesh and Panama, respectively.

But after much consideration, Urban
decided to turn the opportunity down to
attend graduate school at the University
of Michigan. Urban received a full fel-
lowship and a living stipend for the uni-
versity’s Masters program in Japanese
Studies. '

“The Center for Japanese Studies at the
University of Michigan is the oldest in-

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Meet the scholars! From leftﬁto right: Kenclre Barnes, Isaac Webb, Derek Barisas, Max Chapnick, Rachel Urba

cause she felt it would be a great setting
to gain teaching experience and explore
her intellectual curiosities.

“I have a particular interest in ques-
tions concerning race, identity, literature,
and the experience of diaspora and mar-
ginalized communities and voices in the
Spanish—speaking world,” she said. “And
Panama has such a rich history as a ra-

“Fulbright awards are given to students who have a

global perspective. The student who ’s going to be out

talking to a market owner, not spending their entire day

inside of a lab, is the type of individual who is going to

receive this award. 

JANET IKEDA, W&L Fulbright Scholar Program Adviser
 

terdisciplinary center in the US devoted
exclusively to Japanese Studies, so it
was quite an honor to receive this oppor-
tunity,” Urban said.

Urban plans to reapply for the Ful-
bright Scholar program in the future.

“I am really sad that I wasn’t able to do
the Fulbright this year, because it’s some-
thing that I feel so passionate about,” she
said. “I sincerely hope that I’ll be able to
have the opportunity to do it again.”

Barnes, a Spanish and English major at
W&L, said the Spanish department had
a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on her decision to
apply for the Fulbright award.‘

“I am extremely grateful for [the de-
partment’s] conﬁdence and encourage-
ment throughout the entire process,”
Barnes said.

Barnes said that she chose Panama be-

cial, ethnic, and socio-economic cross-
road between North America and South
America.”

Barisas, Reynolds and Webb were all
selected for Fulbright’s research pro-
gram.

Barisas will be doing genetic testing
of the black-tailed godwit in Iceland. He
said that Iceland’s unique environment
encouraged him to select the country for
his Fulbright experience.

Reynolds will travel to China, where
she will be conducting education re-
search for migrant children in China’s
Zhejiang Province.

Webb declined to comment on his ex-
perience, but will be conducting research
in the Ukraine. V

When discussing the application pro-
cess, Ikeda and many of the Fulbright re-

     
  

  

n, Bethany Reynolds.
cipients stressed the importance of start-
ing early. lkeda said that she is happy to
see sophomores and juniors in her ofﬁce
to start conversation about the Fulbright
programs.

“The application process only has one
on-campus interview and after that the
selection committee relies on the stu-
dents’ paper application,” Ikeda said. “It
is important for me to get to know the
students well so that I can help them be
sure their application conveys who the
are.” -

Ikeda added that her experience as the
Fulbright program adviser has given her
the opportunity to meet many interesting
and driven students.

“Working with this year’s group was
very enriching,” Ikeda said.

Urban and Barnes strongly encouraged
anyone interested to apply. Urban said
that the application process is beneﬁcial
to the job search in general, even if a stu-
dent isn’t selected for the program.

“You will have the experience of writ-

 

..ing a personal statement and putting

together a resume? all of which are
necessary skills for other postgraduate
applications,” Urban said.

Barnes added that applying for a Ful-
bright grant is inspiring.

“We can never see what the outcomes
of our decisions and efforts will be, but
leaving ourselves open to be surprised
and learn is an experience that cannot
be underestimated,” she said. “Those are
the experiences and the moments that
in the end we are not only grateful for,
but that encourage someone else to start
their own journey.”

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI ' . MONDAY, MAY 13,2013

The  and :-
Of 2012-2013 ‘

D~Ha11f Steps it Up     , Puppy Love
Aﬂhoughryour Waisﬂine may not be President Ruscio’s family adopted a furr
lovin’ D-Halls new improvements, it is new member named Muey this year At y

 I S M I ’2?rI:yI:fI:::;;::_I/mrgtz :‘?Zr’Zae'E).CeI‘Il_e'SS p only 6 months old, Miley is already a ‘ A .

    

YouTube sensation.

:=- - - . -
 E‘! Eﬁ;I§$.

The beloved specialty fries L , 0
were removed from the Co— "I
Op’s menu leaving many ‘

heartbroken students... Aldisterslhit campus

, , SPOTTED on campus: Ron
. V « ’ Paul, Hillary Clinton (well, at V

   I . ‘ VMI), and Aaron Ralston. Can I
‘   L get an autograph, please? .
I The line between “raise the

roof” and “put ‘em up” got

blurred this year ascops

became the new unwanted -
guests at country parties.

We’re,
like, never
getting ‘ I
_ back
as;   5   together’
%ﬁ@’T-‘@559’; ' ' I   like ever.
9::   

  

 

_ TSwift new

PIKA, FIJI, and Kappa Singb, “We Are
Sig all get the boot. For Never Getting

one reason or another, all B k T th ,,
three frats were kicked off bjgamggtﬁe er .
campus...some for longer new bre‘ak_up

than others. . .anthem_ .

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF JULIANNA SATTERLY  . <-
NEWS EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY '  .
OPINIONS EDITOR ALLIE WEISS I  I
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR CYNTHIA LAM

SPORTS EDIToR LEIGH DANNHAUsER  5 -
» HEAD COPY EDITOR GRAHAM coLToN ’ I , Party L1k€
DESIGN EDIToRs JULIA LANG .

ALLIE wEIss' _ TVS 

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR SARA KORASH-SCHIFF

P I P = " Fancy Dress
STAFF WRITERS RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD , I 

LINDSEY BURKE

3/,;I;<;,L,',,~E,,;*,*;,I,",,**,, QISASEES %'!!!(E$. I Fitzgera|d’s

g,I::,gI,A,I;,I,;§:g,      greatest
YEIEAN KIM ‘ . i — character to life 0
- ANDREA OWEN From the fire on Preston
. for attendees.
Street to Hurricane Sandy, the with an the
BUSINESS MANAGERS DAVID wILsoN' elements were never in our
DILLoN MYERS favor glamour of the
DISTRIBUTION STAFF MIcHAEL DoNNELLAN -  s - ,
JONATHAN sELL_s' ; Roaring 203:
KANE THoMAs p _ the Gatsby

 
     

theme was a
hit.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-TUM PHI to accurately,
truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting the Washington and Lee
community for students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable. Through our
reporting, we aspire to spark discussions that lead to discovering information
that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the undergraduate school year.
THE RlNG»TUM PHI is a member of‘The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI welcomes
all letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions for content and length.
Letters and advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-
TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel and
obscenity.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY coMMoNs ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060 I ‘-
FAX: (540) 458-4059 - » 5 . .
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU I '
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

Performing
for Parent’s
. Weekend

The Gennies
brought their A-game
Parent’s Weekend.
Aka, they actually
won...and people
actually wentto the
game.

The Phi Gets a
Much~Needed.

Makeover

After attending

a conference in
SanFran, the Phi
staff gives thepaper
a little primping and
pampering. Get
ready for a totally
revamped paper in
the upcoming year!

 

£37, 5% g!.§§:‘=%

Student favorite, Clay

Coleman, headed south to

sunny Florida.

  Gettin’ Derby
Sigma Chi’s Derby Days, as
always, kicked off Spring Term
with a bang. W ‘

EEFEEE ' A E!‘="5E.E
'53?! #55? t

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

Magorly Crushm’ Out
Campus cuties got their day when
social media pages such as WLUCrush
and Compliments allowed students
to pour out their heart and soul
anonymously. WLUBeef on the other

hand“.

  

Derby Days and cat fights,
oh my! Between a broken
nose and a broken elbow,
the F rosh clearly took their
competition seriously.

 gratings

 "'2' i"=i!?§
Srat row was blessed with

several smelly inhabitants
this year. A

%=‘§§?.-ii 
nsessas    

 ‘E9
1: 2&2‘: EE'€?s§5!!!§

The infamous Mark Collins
hacks the wlu.edu mail

' system. Who wouldn’t want

10 emails a day about
becoming his “|ucky new
assistant”?

5 E "5 so ?§§!'!'§E-£5!-if:
..nl5.ai:‘»2.;§;ea

Students called it a night early on
Ha|loween’s Windfall Wednesday
not because they “had too much
fun”; rather, it was because of the
unexpectedly early arrival of the
P0 P0.

i§§§%'=§ﬁ§.%- — ﬁgs:
sags ass:-was

-Students were saddened to

learn of an EC hearing that
was open to the student body.

A Though it never happened, the A
trial was a reminder ofjust how  

seriously we take our Honor
System.

 

2';  Even after Dominos
 and Papa Johns turn
 ~ off their ovens for the
y  .’ night, munchies are
I  still available. As of
if  this year the Co-Op
  remains open until 2
 ,__?- AM.

  It’s a

 - T Snowpocalypsei

When it comes down
to it, students will
chose sledding over .
Sociology any day.

Several Fridays were

snowed out...who

wouldn’t wanta three-

day weekend?!

The Ultimate

T Midnight Snack

Hub

4:

l

||e[e is to a
  Elﬁﬂllﬁall

 

- THE RING-TUM PHI °

ﬁeztzéaﬂﬂ/5’

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

  . /aye/w V °
£072!/I/£0

Hometown: Buffalo, NY

Major(s)/Minor(s): English and Classics
Activities: RA, Students for St. Jude, Work Study
in University Store, Latin Tutor, FYOC

Awards: Richard J. Miller Physical Education
Scholarship, Residential Adviser of the Month

“Be yourself, and put 100%
into everything you do. While
academics areimportant, know
when to put down the bool<s-
W8<L isn’tjust about the GPA!”

“Don’t stop yourself from
experiencing, growing, and
changing through your time at
college._This is a great environ-
ment for you to ﬁgure things
out; explore your options and
paths. I'm a much different per-
son, with much different goals
and priorities, than when I first
came here.”

Hometown: New Orleans, LA
Major(s)/Minor(s): Physics—Engineering and Eco—
nomics

Activities: Honor Advocate, Sigma Nu, Volunteer
at Hull's Drive—In, Habitat for Humanity

Awards: Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma

- ggeczy./awe;

Hometown: Monroe, LA

Major(s)/Minor(s): Journalism and Mass Communications
Activities: Rocl<bridge Report, inGeneral Magazine, Kappa Del-
ta, Voting Regulations Board, Mock Convention

Awards: Rouse—Bottom Journalism Scholarship

“Remove the word, ‘maybe,’ from your vocabulary.
Commit yourself to your actions, decisions and
goals sooner rather than later, so you don't look
back and wonder where you made a wrong turn”

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

Hometown: Milford, DE

Major(s)/Minor(s): Politics and Religion .

Activities: Varsity Swimming, Track and Field, Omicron Delta
Kappa, RA, Special Olympics,1 in 4, Phi Kappa Psi

Awards: Phi Beta Kappa, General of the Month, 3-Time Swim-
ming School Record Holder, Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award;
Scholar—Athlete for Track and Field and Swimming

“Ta|<e advantage of the many incredible opportuni-
ties that are available only at W8<L. We have some
of the most brilliant, but also the most helpful and
caring professors invthe country as well as one of
the strongest and most honorable communities
anywhere. Use these to get the most of your time
at W&L because it goes very quickly.

Hometown: Lorton, VA

Major(s)/Minor(s): Economics/Poverty

Activities: Alpha Delta Pi, Bonner Scholar, Campus
Kitchens, Students for St. Jude, Student to Student
Mentoring, l<athe|<on

Awards: Danny Thomas Leadership Scholarship for
Executive Director of the Year (St. Jude), Johnson Op-
portunity Grant, Cabell Brand Scholarship

“Your life will never again
be as simple as it is now, but
instead of wasting your time,
ﬁnd the things that will de-
ﬁne not only your college

 experience but also your life,
whatever they may be, and
make those a priority”

  

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&life

. Mandatory Heartwarming,
Slightly Sappy Graduation Letter

 

 

With graduation Vightr.

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

   

  

  

una’ the corner, seniors reﬂect on the highlights of their past four years here at W&L

they 0

awesome f w J09 J9
, pf vet‘! 01/'

t1"l6ute to e 6 St owl ofna e two
It was a 0 Wu [e ’W [ Ytyneﬂt.

-. . it sw r, )9 tire of 0‘

, A A I ashe , t an n 7, they
._ x * coufof WV event 70 esso 0‘: 1% flow eSS(:JYS, the
"  th1’@e “Egg 5 of ’W om the?) “gout ’tfL<’/1,1,/g3,,(f“st1"o1”L£3 Ye-

‘. r . ~u
"am “ u]7}0° t Sys gffrequeﬂtfg Past f0
we Kd them

01’ tfy C
— ent pe1’$0"’ e y  etfec,
Wﬁlffjcftétiever the casOe,6(Ia Flo)” of nut V to [at g q oflnsteatf, waYd:11’1L/51,];
t ' , 0 T11 1110 9
afwt/1‘j}(::w;:,¢) [ t’s Pride (fright around the co §:get who
731“, , tw’e 15 . em’ 5 , there 15
the immhuhhn f r the Past fihltrrrgovy? TOY 5 fnostafgia’ u Si1’lCeYeW’ unity of Stuiems
[efs foo favor e , ﬁadg the ['11 Smg e The Comm
ha bring f 0 am“
Do you ﬁat Vvlafoyev 1’ T5 are Jumb e f ﬁadt
moment ‘F [ tﬁetrfo ‘J2’/(“WW to man ,
Wwmyyeoﬂv : ed “lave ct dug). mortes irwofv R
e  ﬁne Sutﬁe EC?/Flroge $’[6ll’ld’01/It  mem y was EA/1t
Stmte everyon » hose favor of th Wm’
for .1:Lea]ez[1’L1’L1f Y mtmi, lcfaiice com? ﬂy’ pee who M“ e
fr1e;g,?9s- Y5“ 5 with t f 0W5 t at 1t LS 0 fang hours 5}’
wee Eefgsexjie Btr 1e,d grate “IVS t gays hsome
Cast 0 ‘J. Sat 9 mt it s 61 W
‘te me ormtlnce" »
3:13-22-  eztizi  at“: th  cw 9::
on 5 0 -
heSt,7’e0ye(:’ ca it .lC°Yg:,: a &L ’ W? pyttofz ve1’V 6
9.[0’vV€V ’ 2 Ce 1/ fl t (ea?-1/1 Y 1
heavily  Zfiﬁf Mldw O
sors aw 1"

Reason #2  pring Term Rocks

The classes - all of them. Students go beyond the classroom, from Hawaii to Belize, to gain rea

By Lindsey>Burke , _ 
STAFF WRITER "

'2. -7 1 5- .;'‘~
1' H A T h ‘

       

l, ﬁrsthana’ experience

"9&':§‘_;.¢.r»

From biking the terrain of local Lex-
ington to snorkeling the waters of Be-
lize and Hawaii, spring term courses at
Washington and Lee clearly aren’t con-
ﬁned to the classroom.

This term, courses offered include

,Mountain Biking, the Economics of

Tropical Coastal Seascapes, Self Help
and the Pursuit of Happiness, and the
Geology of Hawaii.

For sophomore Holley Beasley, leam-
ing economics while travelling to Belize
has been an unmatchable opportunity in
her time at W&L thus far.

“It was an awesome experience,” said
Beasley, a student in the Economics of
Tropical Seascapes. “We got to see ﬁrst-

 

 

hand what we have been reading about
in class.”

This economics class, taught by Pro-
fessor Casey, applies economic survey-
ing techniques with environmental pres-
ervation in Belize. According to Beasley,
the class studied “tourists’ willingness to
pay to keep whale sharks from going
from vulnerable to extinct.” in order to
experience the nature around them and
understand their studies through obser-
vation, the class did various activities
such as snorkeling, a monkey river tour
through the rainforest and a crocodile
hunting tour.

“The opportunities were once in a life-
time,” said Beasley. It is clear that these

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

  

‘_'Liz Ols h.’exari1In‘e_s rocks dun[i3i‘g'

 
   
  
   

S, ‘ Econ-288 students were able to turn their
’ pages of their textbooks into real life.
g Other students chose to venture into
'1. the landscapes of Lexington. Head
men’s soccer coach Rolf Piranian taught
Mountain Biking this term. Since Pirani-
- an ﬁrst introduced the P.E. course in the
1990s, students have come out from the
i ’- adventures, both enthused and satisﬁed.
Piranian describes himself as an “avid
outdoorsman,” and has been a mountain
biking advocate since he was introduced
to the sport in the 1970s. The class rides
Mondays and Saturdays, where there is
 never a dull moment. This year, most

Sophomore lg Iey A. ‘
crocodile on e Be‘

 

rides have been plagued by rain.

“There are a lot of war stories,” said
Piranian about the course. “Every trip,
there’s something new.”

For those looking for a less intense
class, Self Help and the Pursuit of Hap-
piness also provides real-life explana-
tion through observation. According
to the syllabus, the course relates the
pursuits to religion, by considering
the “philosophical, psychological, and
medical-scientiﬁc perspectives on these
pursuits.” The class meets Monday and
’Wednesday, with yoga on Tuesday and
Thursday, and meditation on Wednesday

afternoons.

“I have learned topics that are incom-
parable to any other class I’ve taken at
W&L,” said senior Mike Jensen about
the class. “Yoga and meditation allow us
to apply concepts we’ve learned in the
classroom to realistic settings.” '

Whether students are enjoying the sun
exploring Hawaiian topography or trav-
elling to the local Shakespearean theater
in Staunton, it is clear that spring term
this year has provided students with
ﬁrsthand experience combined with
their studies.

 

  WAS 

 
 

UNIVERSITY sro    

Celebrating “a place like no other”

Congratulates the Class of 2013!
   r-f‘
    4’   _     .3
  BaccalaureatcServ1ce \§
Wednmday, May 22
'   10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

 

  

Graduation
Thursday, May 23
10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

celebrate this accomplishment
with
a special remembrance 

GRADUATION SPECIAL STORE HOURS  

Saturday, May 18, 10:00 a.m. — 5:00 pm.
Sunday, May 19, 10:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.

Thank you for helping the University
by patronizing your UNIVERSITY STORE!

All revenues go directly  University scholarships, salaries 
  and Lee  budget.

 

 GTON AND LE

 

 

 

 
 

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

 

By Leigh Dannhauser ' S 
sPoRTs EDITOR

,  G  .i‘].'i-ii == '

’ '1 M4 I ‘S .’   .
. iii, 1 _  
.~.: i‘- « -.  -
““ 1 “I 4
.

.  +4, _

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team came out on the ’ ‘

losing end of a 13-6 decision in their NCAA tournament opening
round game at York.

York, ranked ninth in the nation, opened up the game with seven
straight goals. Sophomore attacker Catherine Klinedinst was the

-~ E»? first General to ﬁnd the back of the net with just under 12 minutes

remaining in the ﬁrst half.
Washington and Lee was outscored 10-4 in the iﬁrst half and was
not able to make up the deﬁcit.
Junior Meade Brewster scored three ofthe Generals’ six goals.
‘ ~ Leading the way for York was Leah Schultz who scored ﬁve times.
‘:11 3?. Kim Wayson and Erica Mulford also scored three times each for the
 . Spartans. »
it The Spartans held the advantage in shots on goal, 21-14. W&L
’ sophomore goalkeeper Cara Mulligan and Spartans’ goalkeeper

   
   
 

ii ‘ Ashley‘ Smith both played the full 60 minutes forltheir teams and _

each made eight saves

even 10-10 overall record and a 7-3 conference record while win-
‘ ning the conference title.

' THE RING-TUM PHI '

..sports

 

  ork ends Generals’ seaso

. 5 W&L falls in theﬁrst round of the NCAA tournament 13-6

      
   
  
 

-; The loss ends the season for the Generals. They ﬁnished with an i

VNASIPIINGTSONS AND LEE

 UniversitySt0re Q’    

'l:tt".'iI.‘?d3‘3"tTl'il..l‘?:£f ' <1‘ ,i'.:'t':7-.i'»r !i'.|':e ma r.I.i'.l:er”

 

   

Buoy 1 or lull lll

“Hands Downthe Tastiest Truckstop in America” '
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

   

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join us for one of ourALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday& Sunday6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week10:30 am . 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loinii am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet it pm -2 am  

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

540-463-3478
www.|eehi.com See our menu oniine

. or .1 «,'.‘:-r~

    

59%;;

V  Twitter @berkysfood

 

    Find us on Face book

i-81 &|-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450 3

Undergraduate -Students
DO YOU T CASH FOR SUMIMER?

.Ft'nishaa' Exams? Before leaving campus,

bringyuur books to the 0d COIHHIOHS 

‘ I 'extbook Buyback!
. . . Get sash (up to 5l}% of value of book)!
. . . Help your store obtain n1o«re used and cheaper hooks for your future semesters!

6 Days in the Elrod Commons’ Atrium

Thursday & Friday, May 16 & 17, 9 a.m. — 6 pm.
Saturday & Suruday, Belay 18 & May 19, 10 a.m. -4 pm.
Monday & Tuesday, May 20 & 21, 9 am. -4 6 pm.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013

10 " THE RING-TUM PHI‘ “

Congrats to all sports teams
for contributing to W&L’s
win of the Dan Wooldridge
Cup for the 11th year in a

row!  

 

soapbox

“I look at it that baseball has high
standards for their umpires and I have
high standards for myself and I didn’t
meet those standards last night, so I am
absolutely OK with everything.”

-MLB umplre Floldln culbraﬂnaftarbelngsuspendedfortwo
wneson Fﬂdqyforallamrigﬂousliormsunsmoldenianacar

BoPoruertolmproperlychan¢aroI|efpItchorsIn1homIddIe
dfan|nnlrig.PoI1arwasaI|owed1nclIalI¢op|u:herstwlce
whenthe1IrstpIt:::herhadn’tfacedasIn¢obaunr.11ieruIes
emetiiatpltclienlnaveinfacoatleostoriebaunrmvan
whenapllnch hluerlsaerrtuplnplaooorwhotheythought
wasorUnaIlygolngtobeat1hep|a1B.fromE$PN.com

“if! can inspire people by doing what I
think is easy, that's awesome.”

-H|gheehoolpolevaul|nrchar|oﬂnBmwn,whop|aoed
elghu1In1heTaiassurIneIiamp|orishlpmeetevan1houm
shels|eallybIlnd.sheuaesuirfmataIon¢aldo1herunwqy
tomnsualglrnandoounlshorsiepsandllsuamforher
coaohforwhen1n1aloofl',fmmE.SPN.oom

thlete of the Week

 

This week’s athlete of the week is junior
Leanne Stone. Stone was chosen for as

an All-American earlier this week. _Stone,

as a defender, also won First Team All-
Chesapeake Region honors and First Team
All-ODAC honors. She was selected for
Third Team All-American honors for her first
A/I-American honor.

What is your earliest memory of lacrosse?

I remember playing pass with my dad in our backyard before 5th
grade tryouts. I actually remember being so frustrated because I was
dropping every pass and had no idea how to throw. The other sports
I was playing at the time like basketball and soccer had come natural
to me, but lacrosse deﬁnitely did not. I remember being so nervous
and hesitant to even tryout, but my parents told me to at least just try
it. Most of .my friends were trying out as well so that was also a con-
vincing factor. I don’t really remember the tryouts, but I’m assuming
I had a lot of fun and I’m pretty sure the sport grew on me really fast!

What’s been your favorite moment playing lacrosse?

I think the end of our season this year, bringing home the ODAC
trophy, was deﬁnitely one of the highlights of my lacrosse career.
Both in the semiﬁnals against Guilford and then in the ﬁnals against
Shenandoah we were the lower ranking and both teams had beaten
us earlier in the regular season. To have a second chance to play both
teams who we knew were beatable made the tournament competi-
tion that much more exciting for us. And then taking that second
chance and coming_out of top was such a rewarding feeling. Even
more so, I would say, than in years past when we were the #1 ranking
and the expected winner. During a team retreat at the beginning of
the season, we were asked if we would rather be the underdog or not.
Almost everyone answered that they would rather be the underdog,
and after winning the championship, I think all of our opinions were
conﬁrmed.

What’s next for you? Do you have goals set for next year?

I deﬁnitely want to get another ODAC championship, but more than
that I just want to enjoy my last year of playing a sport competitively
at the collegiate level. For me, I tend to do my best when I’m just
‘enjoying myself and remembering why it is I play a sport in the ﬁrst
place (to have fun!) I am so grateful that I have been given the op-
portunity to continue doing something I absolutely love, and I just
really want to soak up everything I love about it for my last season.

ondeck

  

Men’s Lacrosse

By Graham Colton 4 -.""‘
COPY EDITOR

    

5: ' 
ifseniorplac ' _

In the opening round of the NCAA Divi-
sion III Toumament on Wednesday, May 8 at
Wilson Field, the eighth-ranked Washington
and Lee University men’s lacrosse team beat
Sewanee 19-6.‘

Early in the second period, the Generals
scored six straight goals to raise the tally to
9-2. During the scoring surge, senior mid-
ﬁelder Jack Switala and sophomore attack-
man Cameron Dabir each had two goals
and one assist. At 12:37 of the second pe-
riod, Dabir, assisted by junior midﬁelder Joe

Season ends, but team I
ties school record for
victories.

".“_(‘y£_nnux.»£7T-‘L v":

The eighth-ranked Washington and ‘Lee
University men’s lacrosse team was up-
set by the 12th-ranked Salisbury Univer-
sity Seagulls by a score of 7-4 in the second
round of the NCAA Division 111 Men’s La-
crosse Tournament last Saturday at Wilson
Field.

Salisbury opened the game at a torrid pace,
with two quick goals from ﬁrst-year attack-
man Brady Dashiell, scoring unassisted at
1:19 and again at 10:53 with some help from
junior attackman Rhett DePol. With only .1 .5
seconds remaining in the opening period,
sophomore midﬁelder Kyle Goss, assisted
by senior attackman Evan I-Iammersly, found
the back of the net.

wt.’-

  

 

cﬁ ‘ Thirteen different Generals scéore

V .1

. ~ge_!.':a"w;lear shot.‘ .
 '«a-nviiasisiaigti;-.1.  "F Jr:-I   v”
Wood, scored a man-up goal: A few goals
later, Switala ﬁnished off the Generals’ tlurr)
with goals at 8:38 and 5:39. Senior midﬁelder
James Millard stopped the bleeding for the "li-
gers at 4:51. At the end of the period. W&l..
led comfortably by a score of 10-3.

W&L began the third period with three con-
secutive goals in the ﬁrst 3:54 to break the
game wide open, by a score of 13-3.

With the win, the Generals tied the program
record for wins in a season, going to 16-4
overall.

Men’s Lax Ousted

l

by saliuryv

Inw-

. 2 H V
r ‘  ‘
*1‘ 5 : .

Only 28 seconds into the second period, ‘I
DePol scored to pad the Seagulls’ lead to ”

4-0. At 9:43, however, senior attackman
Mac Means put the ball in the back ofthe net
all by himself. Only 1:29 later, sophomore

attackman Tyler Goldman did the same,‘

shifting momentum to the Generals and the
score to 4-2.

Just before the break, though, Salisbury.

regained control of the game, as sophomore
defenseman Knute Kraus converted on a

man-down in transition with 2:04 left before

the end of the period.

In the third period, the only goal was tallied ,

by junior attackman Luke Phipps at 5: I 9.

Generals goalkeeper Warren Berenis keeps his eye on the ball.

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information.

Tuesday Wednesday I

   

Thursday

; ‘in an NCAA Tournament opening-
round rout.

For the Generals, Switala led in scoring xx ith
three goals and one assist; Dabir lxcpl pace
with two goals and one assist; and sopliomoI‘e
attackman (‘am Lewis. senior .’,|ll2‘.Cl\’1!lLl1l Mac
Means and first-_Vear iniclliolrltw "lirixtirin
Zane-lis each con‘u*il)utl.r<.l ‘mo goals.

For the Tigers. Senior niin.ll'iclder l)re\\‘
Lincoln scored twice and junior 'clII1lL‘l~;m£ll1
Michael Morris assistc<.l on mo <__>-0:115; xxbilc
scoring one.

-aa_._~ . f, A

 

Saturday _

    

Women’s Lacrosse

Men’s Tennis

Women’s Tennis

‘Men’s Track

at Swarthmore

Women’s Track

at Swarthmore

B88 L2~P7553

11/25/13 18388 Sm

an

    

  
   
   

 

