   

I

‘I

\‘

 

27?»?
RK5?»

 
 

V. [16

no.4,

couam..a..,.   at

OPINIONS / page 3

Night L£~('ecowﬁ0lewtiaL ,
, Ever wonderwhat goes on after 11pm in
Graham-Lees on a Saturday?

A&L / page 8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

' THE RING-TUMPHI.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22,

New housing
in the works

By Hamlet Fort

STAFF WRITER _ _ .
Last year, a Residential Life Task Force

compiled a report consisting of seven recom-
mendations for the Washington and Lee Board
of Trustees regarding University residential life,
including a recommendation that would require
all third-year students to live on campus starting
sometime after 2014.

The report, composed during the 2011-2012
school year, presents statistical data, research,
and reports on peer universities’ housing models
and how they compare to W&L’s. The initiative is
intended to foster a more coherent sense of com-
munity on campus, according to Dean of Students
and Vice President of Student Affairs Sidney Ev-
ans.

The proposal is part of a long-term plan to
move more upper-division students from off-
campus housing into Lexington. The recommen-
dation includes plans for the construction of an
apartment-style complex on campus, intended to
house the entire sophomore class.

Typically, University Greek houses are ﬁlled
by sophomores, and with the new on-campus re-
quirement, juniors would ﬁll the Greek houses
along with some seniors.

The Task Force’s plans are not conﬁned only
to housing. The initiatives also involve plans for
more University dining options, including a ten-
tative proposal for a student center with a bar,
options for food and social capabilities, intended

2012

“They ’re taking away from the

1

community and the students, ’ I
said a Lexington landlord, who
rents ﬁve oﬁ’-campus houses to

‘W&L students. “This is about

control. ”

 
for upper-division students. Evans hopes students
will see the opportunities for more social events
on campus.

“Our primary obligation is to look at the stu-
dent experience,” Evans said.

The movement of hundreds of students to
campus will drastically affect the rental market in
the Lexington area and many local landlords are
opposed to the initiative.

The current income from W&L student rentals
is between four and ﬁve million dollars, accord-
ing to a local landlord. The market should expect
to lose about half of that as a result of the require-
ment, he said.

Some believe this isn’t a move intended only
for community. building, and that it is an “under-
the-radar” power-move by University administra-
tion.

“They’re taking away from the community
and the students,” said a Lexington landlord, who
rents ﬁve off-campus houses to W&L students.
“This is about control.”

Another disagreement has to do with the bene-
ﬁts ofliving on campus versus the beneﬁts ofliv-
ing away. Some, including the landlord, believe
students need to live off-campus as. part of their
development in college.

“lt’s a good thing for them to get out and to
have responsibility and have to live on their own,
and make adult decisions,” he said. The source
also said the Residential Life Task Force didn’t
include the opinions of all parties involved.

“Narrow-minded,” he said of the task force.
“No conversation at all.”

W&L Director of Housing and Greek Life
Clay Coleman fully agrees with the task force’s
ﬁndings, although he was not in the group him-
self. Coleman sees promise for the University’s
future in the recommendation.

“I think it’s a great idea,” Coleman said. “It
puts us in line with our peer institutions.”

Coleman said there needs to be more social
outlets for students on campus and in town. The
plan to build a centerzwith a pub, restaurant and
social center would bring W&L more of a sense
of normalcy compared to institutions around the
country like W&L, according to Coleman.

The Residential Life Task Force will present
their ﬁndings to President Ruscio and the W&L
Board of Trustees this fall and will expect to hear
back from the Board later this year. Of the seven
recommendations made by the Task Force, the
Board can choose to go forward with any number
of them, or none at all.

Evans, Coleman and other administrators are
conﬁdent the Board will approve the third-year
residency requirement, but ' most students and
Lexington landlords hope for the opposite. The
changes would not take place until years into the
future, but if initiated, W&L’s culture will change.

BY THE

 

 

STUDENTS

AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS

SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 6

Coleman resigns after 5 years at W&L

Clay Coleman takes on a position as Director of Student Aﬂairs at a school in Florida

Graham Colton
STAFF WRITER V

from his position as Director of Greek
and Residential Life at Washington
and Lee. Coleman is going to work
at the University of Central Florida as
the Director of Student Affairs. Dean
Sidney Evans will advise the lnterfra-
temity Council in his place.

Coleman created the Alumni
Board/Greek Life Initiative, which is
composed of Greek alumni who visit
with all of the Greek houses in person
to promote low-risk behaviors.

Efforts like these, said IFC Presi-
dent Danny Murray ’l3, have “pro-
moted student self-govemment, in-
creased transparency ‘and led to a
number of improvements for Greek
organizations.” ‘

Coleman also improved residential
life. .
“He has worked to make residen-

Clay Coeman is stepping own ‘I I

  
     

tial life a more positive and fulﬁlling
experience for Resident Advisers by
helping us update programming re-
quirements, providing more helpful
and much needed training for RAs,
and doing his best to ensure that RAs
do not become overburdened in their
responsibilities but that they are doing
the best they can for the campus,” said
Wayde Marsh ’l3, a Co-Head RA for

Upper-Division Students.

Coleman’s support was crucial to
the creation of the Green Dot Bystand-
er Initiative and, more recently, to the
Bringing in the Bystander Program.
Both endeavors were brought about to

’ combat sexual misconduct at W&L.

According to the University web-
site, the Bringing in the Bystander
Program uses a community of respon-
sibility model to teach bystanders how
to intervene safely and effectively in
cases where sexual assault may be oc-
curring or where there may be risk.

With Coleman’s support, fewer
women on campus have been victim-
ized by sexual misconduct in recent
years. In fact, a recent National Col-
lege Health Assessment survey re-
vealed that while 19.3% of women in
2010 had suffered “sexual touching
without consent,” only 14.6% of wom-
en so suffered in 2012.

Coleman will be remembered for
the sincerity of his interpersonal re-
lationships. “He has enhanced Greek
life and residential life,” said Dean Da-
vid Leonard, “by creating open, honest
and frank relationships with student
leaders.”

Students themselves remark on his
exceptional regard for others. “The
best ‘thing about working with Clay
was that he took time to get to know
RAs, on a personal level, and was gen-
uinely concerned about the students he
was working with,” said an RA.

From his time at W&L, Coleman
will most remember the deluge of help
from the campus community in re-
sponse to the ﬁre at the Pi Kappa Phi
fraternity house in 2009.

Coleman has compiled an impres-
sive resume’ in administration in higher
education.

He started at Southwestern Univer-
sity in Georgetown, Texas. Spending
four years there, he worked as the As-
sistant Director of Residence Life and
advised its Interfratemity Council.

Coleman holds a bachelor’s degree
in business from Southwestern Uni-
versity=and a master’s degree in edu-
cational administration from the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin. In addition
to working full-time at UCF, he will
begin studying in its doctoral program
in Communication Strategies.

Five years ago, Coleman began
working at W&L as the Director of
Student Activities and Greek Life.
Last year, he was promoted to Direc-
tor of Greek and Residential Life.
Coleman also served as a resource for
Conﬁdential and Impartial Resolution
(CAIR), which, according to its web-
site, provides information concerning
procedures and dispute resolution op-
tions for complaints by or against stu-
dents.

“He has worked to make residential life a more positive and fulﬁlling experience

for ‘Resident Advisers by helping us update programming requirements, providing

more helpful and much needed training for RAS, and doing his best to ensure that

RAs do not become overburdened in their responsibilities but that they are doing

the best they can for the campus. ’

I

Wayde Marsh ‘13, Co-Head RA for Upper-Division Students

NY trip puts advertising careerson the table

Students visit New York during Reading Days and see several advertising ﬁrms

By Krysta Huber

STA F F w R IT E R ,
A group of2l Washington and Lee

students traveled to New York City
over Reading Days for the annual ad-
vertising trip that is coordinated by the
Williams School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics and Politics.

According to Assistant Dean of

the Williams School Mr. John Jen- '

sen, participants visited eight different
advertising agencies and attended a
reception with W&L alumni who cur-
rently work in the advertising, public
relations and marketing industry.
Students who participated, mainly
sophomores and juniors,_were chosen

PHOTO COURTESY./‘OF SAM SWATSKI

lo
4

through an application process. Ac-
cording to Jensen, the ﬁrst 12 partici-
pants were selected based on GPA and
a committee of faculty members chose
the remaining students. The applica-
tion included a written paragraph in
which applicants had to explain why
they would beneﬁt from attending the
trip, as well as what previous experi-
ence they had, if any, that made them
qualiﬁed to attend. "

According to Jensen, the advertis-
ing ﬁrms that they visited include Ha-
vas Worldwide, MRY, Peppercomm,
Saatchi & Saatchi, TBWA, Bot-

1.;-1., .,
.\ .‘

    

 

“The trip absolutely helped me in thinking about my

career path by allowing me to understand so many

details of abusiness about which I knew very little, ’

J

said McClintock. “It was a great experience that cre-

lated an opportunity for me to learn about advertising

 

andme .-sue essful alumni in the ﬁeld. ”

 

tlerocket, Bliss and Condé Nast.

At each ﬁrm, W&L alumni gave
the students a taste of what theirjob is
like within that company.

“Each ﬁrm’s presentation consisted
of what the day-to-day activities were,
a video or series of slides displaying
the ﬁrm’s successful ads, and basics
of the business,” said sophomore Mar-
garet McClintock. “They also gave us
tips on how to land internships and the
do’s and don’ts of interviews and re-
sumes.”

Junior Callie Deddens said
that the more traditional advertising
companies like Saatchi & Saatchi,
Havas Worldwide and TBWA were
among her favorite.

“These companies were
more like what 1 expected from an ad-
vertising ﬁrm and their clients include
products that we use on a daily basis,
like Nabisco, Planter’s and Skittles,”
she said.

Sophomore Ryan Johnson added
that he also enjoyed Havas World-
wide. “While all ofthe ﬁrms had simi-
lar creative talent, Havas Worldwide
had a logical approach that treated ad-
vertising like a science,” he said.

In visiting these ﬁrms, Jensen said
the hope is that the students gained a
broader understanding of career op-
tions in the advertising industry. Mc-
Clintock said she felt the trip did ex-
actly that.

“The trip absolutely helped me in
thinking about my career path by al-
lowing me to understand so many de-
tails of a business about which I knew
very little,” said McClintock. “It was
a great experience that created an op-
portunity for me to learn about adver-
tising and meet successful alumni in
the ﬁeld.” V

The trip not only informed students
about the daily aspects of the advertis-
ing business, but it also afforded them
the opportunity to make contacts for
potential internships and jobs.

“We don’t really track the number
of students who gain jobs and intem-
ships after attending the trip to a real
degree, but the answer is that they do
because it opens up connections and it
presents them with access to alumni
who are willing to help,” said Jensen.

Jensen noted that the Williams
School saw an increased interest
among _students in comparison to last
year’s trip. He attributed the increased
demand to the Advertising and Liberal
Arts Conference held on campus last
spring.

According to wluadlibs.word-
press.com, the two-day event pro-
vided students with the opportunity to
learn about marketing, advertising and
public relations from the perspective
of W&L alumni who shared their ex-
perience and knowledge. Jensen said
that about 100 students from a variety
of majors and all class levels partici-
pated.

“There is a pent up demand that
we are seeing in the advertising ﬁeld
and we are really trying to capture that
as a part of our broader message — a
message that we are trying to send not
only to the Williams School, but to
the College, to the Journalism Depart-
ment, and to other departments around
campus,” Jensen said.

According to Jensen, the high in-
terest in marketing, advertising and
public relations positions is seen even
in students who are not studying a
related major. Johnson for example,
is a studio art and history double ma-
jor, who said he went on the trip even
though he isn’t sure that he wants to
pursue advertising as a career.

“We are really trying to make stu-
dents aware that you don’t have to be
a certain major to go into a certain pro-
fession,” said Jensen. “Once students
understand that and are comfortable.
with it, then really the sky is the limit.”

 

  

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY ‘
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

OCT 7 3 701?

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22,2012

new

A

 

Viewing Cairo in personal terms _  

W&L\student, Amira Hegazy, is studying abroad in Cairo and oﬂers her perspective on the protests in the city

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER‘.

A group of Egyptians approaches a
few young Americans on the streets of
Cairo. However, it’s not what so many
may expect ~ there is no threat in this
movement.

One ofthe Egyptians says, “We’re so
sorry for everything that’s going on right
now. Please know that those gaining the
most media attention are the minority.”

Another chimes in, “We love Ameri-
cans!”

Exchanges such as this one are not
uncommon for Amira Hegazy, a Wash-
ington and Lee sophomore currently
studying in Cairo. Before taking this
year abroad, she traveled to Egypt seven
times to see the family of her Egyptian
father.

Hegazy is planning on majoring in
Middle Eastern Studies and is currently
enrolled in the Arabic Language Inten-

sive Program. at the American Univer-
sity.

Hegazy was able to offer unique in-
sight to other W&L students about the
ongoing unrest in Cairo.

In addition to the riots over the In-
nocence of Muslims video, “There have
been protests over tuition increases at
the American University,” said Hegazy.
“While the AUC protests don’t have
anything to do with the video, I think it’s
interesting to see how ﬁred up Egyptians
are at this point in history.”

Although many Egyptians were in-
volved in the riots, she said that they
were very much a minority movement.

“Truthfully, the riots were so concen-
trated that if I wasn’t looking for them, I
didn’t have toget tangled up with them,”
said Hegazy.

Within the context of past turmoil in

Egypt, the current unrest can be consid- ‘
ered somewhat minimal, according to
Hegazy.
“Life is going on as normal; this is
just one little thing,” said Hegazy. “
“After going through the revolution,

I think this seems little to them,” said
Hegazy. “Don’t misunderstand that this
wasn’t a very offensive video when it
came out but the people who were riot-
ing were seen as extremists by a large
part of the Egyptian population.” ,

“I really felt like the media was playing up the situation

so much, ” Hegazy said. “One day when CNN was show-

ing pictures of riots in Tahrir one of my friends drove

through the area and posted a picture of Tahrir Square

running as usual with no visual disturbances whatso-

ever. ”

-Amira Hegazy, W&L sophomore studying abroad in Cairo

However, this is not the picture that

most Americans got from news sources.
Many Americans see Cairo as a city con-
stantly overcome with tumultuous pro-
tests. In reality, however, everyone close
to the riots had stopped talking about

V them about a week or two after they were

over. Yet the media doesn’t show people
this aspect.

“I really felt like the media was play-
ing up the situation so much,” Hegazy

’ said. “One day when CNN was show-

ing pictures of riots in Tahrir one of my
friends drove through the area and post-
ed a picture of Tahrir Square running as
usual with no visual disturbances what-
soever.” -

Celebrating farm mechanization

Local workers in the farming industry organized a fair to celebrate Rockbridge County is history infarming technology

By Yejean Kim

STAFF WRITER

Cyr”McCormick’s statue sits in front of the Colonnade.

 

NEIL HAGGERTY/ News Editor

 

Local workers in farming celebrated
where mechanized farming for the world
started with Cyrus Hall McCormick’s in-
vention of the mechanical reaper at the
annual Rockbridge County Farm Day on
Saturday.

The annual Rockbridge County Fall
Farm Day took place this past Saturday
at l Bares Wood Road. First organized
by Keith Holland, Leonard Cash Jr. and
Mike Flint last year, the event was “a
way to help the public learn about the
history of farming in the local area of
Rockbridge County and surrounding ar-
eas,” according to Cash.

Along with his contributions to the
farming industry, McCormick was one
of the ﬁrst people to come to the aid of
Robert E. Lee during his presidency at
Washington and Lee University, accord-
ing to wlu.edu.

McCormick served as a member of
the W&L Board of Trustees during the

last 20 years of his life and he and his
family donated generously to the school,
according to wlu.edu.

Some of the main attractions includ-
ed an iron smelting demonstration using
Rockbridge County ore, the Great Tur-
key Drive, a corn maze, exhibits of an-
tique farm equipment and various games
designed to help visitors learn more
about farming.

According to the event’s website,
the iron smelting demonstration was an
“opportunity for the general public to
see how one of the building blocks of
civilization—and modern farming—was
made for thousands of years.”

Lee Sauder, owner of Germinal Iron-
works and the blacksmith who presided
over the demonstration, is a resident
of Rockbridge County and is known
throughout the blacksmithing communi-
ty for his extensive knowledge of ancient
iron smelting techniques.

The exhibits featured antique gas en-
gines, steam engines, and tractors and
cars. Other attractions included corn
shelling and grinding, rope making, vari-
ous arts and crafts, apple butter making,
food and fresh apple cider and hayrides.

Fall Farm Day was not just a day to
enjoy the various exhibitions and dem-
onstrations. Canned food items were col-
lected all day to be donated to the local
food bank and a portion of the proceeds
from all food sold that day was set aside
to be donated to the Buena Vista Rescue
Squad.

Other supporters of the event includ-
ed Rockbridge Farmers Co-Op, Farm
Credit Services, Albert V. Carr Jr., Frank
A. Parsons, Charles A. Martin and G.
Otis Mead III.

As the sun set on Wood Road, Fall
Farm Day 2012 concluded with a called
dance featuring caller Fred Park and ﬁd-

dler James Leva.

CAREER
DEVELOPMENT
CENTER

Tuesday, October 23 at 7pm
Stackhouse Theater

Lauren Berger, CEO of |nternQueen.com,
discusses strategies for finding internships
and career opportunities

Presented b the Career Develoment Center in collaboration with Student Affairs

 

 

MON DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

A

  

 

First-year class ofﬁ

cers named  

Anna Russell Thornton, Paqui Toscano, and Jok Asiyo have been elected by their peers to lead their class

By Douglas McNiel
STA F F w R IT E R
The results of the ﬁrst-year elections
are in and Anna Russell Thornton was
elected as the ﬁrst-year Executive Com-
mittee representative, Paqui Toscano
was elected as the ﬁrst-year Student Ju-
diciary Council representative and Jok
Asiyo was elected as the first-year Class
President—the head of the First-Year
Leadership Committee.
nna Russell Thornton
Thornton says that she
is extremely honored to be
elected to the EC. She cites the honor
system as one of the major reasons she
chose Washington and Lee, and says she
wants to ensure all students experience
the atmosphere of trust and respect that

so deeply impacted her.

She said she knew that she wanted to
run for the EC while hearing the honor
speech ofthe President ofthe EC, Steele
Burrow. She -says that the speech gave
her “chills.” She hopes that she will be
ableto contribute a unique perspective
because she is the only first-year on the
EC.

When askedabout her duties as ﬁrst-
year representative, she said that she
must attend and participate in all the
meetings. She is also responsible for
opening and closing the door during the
meetings, a “cool tradition” in her own
words. Outside of the EC, Thornton is
deciding what other activities she wants

to involve herself in; however, she has
already begun volunteering at Waddell
Elementary and joined Reformed Uni-
versity Fellowship. She says that she
plans to major in English and would like
to work for Teach for America after col-
le e. '

g aqui Toscano
Toscano said he could not

be more excitediabout his elec-
tion to the SJC. He cites his passion for
justice and law as the driving force be-
hind his entrance in the election. He said
his interest and study of constitutional
law will give him the ability to judge
cases heard by the SJC.
Toscano says that he hopes to main-

tain the ideals that Robert E. Lee put
in place during his tenure at W&L. He
would like to study either English or
Politics and eventually go to law school.
His dream is to become a federal judge,
but he also said that he is interested in
becoming active in many other activi-

ties. _
ok Asiyo
Asiyo was the candidate
elected to be the first-year Class
President. His new position will involve
heading the FYLC and planning activi-
ties for first-year students. His main pri-
ority is to ensure that every ﬁrst-year has
the best experience possible.
Asiyo said he knew he wanted to run

for the position right after he learned
about it. He wanted to make sure that all
members of the W&L community would
feel the welcoming feeling that he felt
during his ﬁrst weeks on campus. He be-
lieves that this position will be a good
starting off point for leadership roles,
and is deﬁnitely interested in further
leadership roles.

Besides being first-year Class Presi-
dent, Asiyo is also on the varsity bas-
ketball team and he hopes to major in
Business Administration and possibly
Computer Science.

    
  
 
 
 
      
  

  

Hall.

The Washington and Lee Journalism Department added a
new feature to their front hall. Members of the W&L commu-
nity can now see The First Amendment when they enter Reid

J

 

NEIL HAGGERTY/ News Editor

"Congress sﬁallmake no law respecting an estalilisﬁment 0]‘
religion, 01’p1’0/ii5iting tﬁe free exercise t/iereof; or aliriafging
t/ie freedom qfspeec/i, or of tﬁe press; or tﬁe rigﬁt of tﬁe peopﬂa
peaceaoly to assem6[e, and to petition t/ie government fora

redress qfgrieuances. ”

~Tﬁe Tirst flmencfment

U

.‘;)rﬁﬂ1e‘righ!o" l i

I!i"'- .‘~  ‘xiii -i'~'I« ' i 1.1‘. . ”’ O ‘

Romney puts spotlghtonLX t

, ’ Mitt Romney stops at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington to discuss foreign policy to students

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 2%.; ~.,,,_

 

Republican Presidential Nominee
Mitt Romney visited Virginia Military

t Institute on Oct. 8. While at VMI, the

Presidential hopeful made a speech to
500 cadets, focused around foreign pol-
icy.

The main message of the campaign
stop was that America must change the
way it is doing things in the Middle East.

“America has a proud history of
strong, conﬁdent, principled global lead-
ership,” said Romney. “A history that has

" been written by patriots of both parties.”

While trying to appeal to VMI cadets
and local supporters through the patri-
otic theme to his speech, Romney also
threw some jabs at President Obama.

‘‘I know the President hopes for a

 ’ safer, freer, and a more prosperous Mid-

dle East allied with the United States,”
said Romney. “I share this hope. But
hope is not a strategy.”

He followed this statement up with
his own plans for the Middle East. His
main solution to the issues in the Mid-
dle East is to “make the critical defense

~a

investments that we need to remain se-
cure.”

Washington and Lee sophomore Ol-
ivia Dickey attended the speech; she
has been working for the Virginia GOP
and has recently been registering W&L
students as well as VMI cadets. Dickey

was able to attend the speech because 7

she volunteered to work the door for the
campaign. When asked about the content
ofthe speech, Olivia said, “His thoughts
on international relations were certainly
interesting.”

Dickey was one of a select few Wash-
ington and Lee students to be able to see
the speech.‘ The speech put Lex-
ington on the national spotlight for a
short period following the past few
Presidential debates. Both Presidential
nominees have one more debate remain-
ing today, at Lynn University in Boca
Raton, Fla.'

The nominees’ performances at this

last debate may very well decide the out- >

come ofthe election on Nov. 6.

 

  

  

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22,2012

opinions

 

NATOat war: Not a big deal?  

Should we be more Concerned as Turkey goes careenirzg towards war with Syria?

By Yates Wilburn
s TA F F w R I T E R

Over the past several weeks, Tur-
key has come under ﬁre from numerous
mortar attacks originating from across
the Syrian border. As a result, dozens of
Turkish citizens have been killed along
with several Inore dozens of Syrian citi-
zens in retaliation by Turkish artillery
ﬁre. A rapid escalation of hostilities has
created a state of near-war between Syr-
ia and Turkey, with Turkish prime minis-
ter Recep Tayyip Erdogan claiming that
his nation is “ready for war,” however
unwilling. This is by no measure insig-
niﬁcant. Given its integral membership
in NATO, Turkey stands to drag NATO
into a military engagement in Syria
should hostilities between Turkey and
Syriajump to more consistent and dain-
aging levels. On the whole, American
media has been relatively silent on this
particular issue, and I have seen almost
no discussion on this speciﬁc possibility.
This goes without mentioning both pres-
idential candidates’ near silence, which I
ﬁnd even Inore horriﬁc.

Honestly, no one could blame Turkey
for going to war. Given the incredible
amount of refugees that have fled to Tur-

key to escape the death . ‘d destruction
Bashir Al-Assad has bI‘oI:'_'bt upon his
citizens, Turkey has exercised incred-
ible restraint in this matter. The refugees
that have already entered. Turkey~over
l00,000 at last count—are placing an
incredible amount of stress on Turkey’s
economy and government as it struggles
to feed, house, and protect them. As a
result of this strain, the Turkish people
living in towns absorbing the refugees
have grown increasingly frustrated as
their local resources are spread thin and
refugees attempt to assimilate.

The possibility of Turkey dragging
NATO into the Syrian Civil War with it
is not an impossible scenario. The other
NATO members would have very little
choice in the matter if Turkey decided
to invade Syria in force in an attempt to
bring the conflict to some sort of con-
clusion. Article 5 of the NATO Charter
stipulates that the organization can clas-
sify any attack on one member state as
an attack on all, as it did with the 9/ll
attacks. This Article could be invoked in

a similar manner to bring the full weight '

ofNATO down upon Syria in defense of

Turkey. This may not be necessary how-
ever, as Secretary General ofNATO An-
ders Fogh Rasmussen has already stated
that “all necessary plans [are] in place to
defend Turkey if necessary.”

Despite the incredible implications
of this situation, the American media
and especially Governor Mitt Romney
and President” Barack Obama have had
almost nothing substantial to say about
it. The general topic ofthe Syrian Civil
War has come up occasionally at rallies
and the debates as a convenient attack
point for Romney to hit Obama with,
but it has amounted to little Inore than a
vague criticism with little to no response
from the Obama campaign. The fact that
the entirety of NATO stands to be en-
gaged in Syria doesn’t seem to warrant
any signiﬁcant speculation or analysis
from anyone, which I ﬁnd very disturb-
mg.
I don’t know ifthe relative silence on
this issue is a worse reflection on Ameri-
can news media, the presidential can-
didates themselves, or on the American
voter that doesn’t seem interested in the
situation enough to ask questions.

  

Albania
Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
9 Estonia
France
. ‘ Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Italy

NATO: Member Nations

   

I Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal '
Romania
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain ‘.
Turkey
United Kingdom
United States

      
         
     
       
       
       
 

 
 
 

Potato farmers and politicians: minorities in

Why the term minority is a relative term we need to move past as a country

By Julianna Satterly ‘
EDITOR IN CHIEF

I am a Polish American.

Did that sound weird to you? That’s
because we don’t identify ourselves by
origin in America, the supposed cultural
melting pot. Unless ofcourse, you iden-
tify as a “minority.”

Here’s the thing though, “minor-
ity” is a bit of a skewed term. Reality
check: 3.2% of American people claim
a Polish descent, whereasjust two ofthe
country’s identiﬁed “minority” groups,
African American and Hispanic, com-
prise almost a third ofthe total American
population (l2.6% African American,
16.7% Hispanic). Who is really a minor-
ity here‘?

Alright, so you may say that minor-
ity doesn’t really mean demographic. It

‘ means a socio-economic or educational

minority. Fair point. Did you know that
in the early 1900s the highestjob a Pol-
ish American could get was working in a
factory or the equivalent thereof? Why?
There were two reasons: one, because
many Polish Americans never even ﬁn-
ished high school, and two, because be-
ing Polish made one the target of intense
ethnic discrimination. Sounds a lot like
a classic “minority”. The thing is, ethnic
discrimination is like a hazing ritual in
the annals of American history. Almost
every ethnicity has dealt with some pret-

WASI ll\'GTO.\' N) IIEE U.\'lVER§lTY

THE RING-

TUM PHI.

Non-
resident
alien, 3%

R White nan-
Hispanic,

 

ENROLLMENT BY RACE/
ETHNICITY AT W.&L

 

  

Black nL':-n- Asian or
Hispariic, 5'.a-:2. Pacific
“~:.;\--..____ Isl;In_r.Ier, 1%

."

 llispariic. 1%

     

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT:

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

IULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
JANEY FUGATE
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE IAEGER
RANDY KARLSON

ty hellacious discrimination during their
time. '

I think afﬁrmative action is good
for exactly two things-—truly helping
deserving people while simultaneously
driving an ever-increasing wedge be-
tween the ethnic groups. What “actu-
ally would help is everyone becoming
an American plain and simple, without
the superﬂuous qualiﬁer in front. Which
leads me to my point in writing this:
there is a new, ludicrous education bill in
Florida which lends my theory a certain

amount ofsupport. The Florida Board of
Education just passed a bill stating that
different goals of achievement in writ-
ing, reading and malliematics. have been
set for each race (go to wwwnytimes.
com for the whole article).‘ I support the
‘motive behind bringing disadvantaged
students up to par. but really‘? Take, for
example, their goals for reading compre-
hension: by 2018 Florida hopes to have
“72 percent of low-income children, 74
percent of black students, 8| percent of
llispanics. 88 percent of white students

tter to the editor

YEIEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
LISA STOISER
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

JILLIAN KATTERHAGEN
DAVID THOMAS

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

It is'the.misslon of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for

students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that

prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING-TUIVI PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Thankfully for Republicans, Barack
Obama is running. Unfortunately, he is
not running on his record. Rather he is
doing exactly what many Washington
insid . o, demonize speciﬁc policy ap-
proaches and plans by prominent Repub-
licans and Mitt Romney. The President’s
administration has done three things in
regards to immigration

l. He has increased border patrol
agents, a positive both parties can agree
on.

2. His administration authorized the
Fast and Furious gun running program
which has led to a good number of guns

being left in the hands of criminals and has
contributed to the death of a border patrol
agent

3. He used his executive authority to
implement a temporary version of his
DREAM Act.

What he hasn’t done is work towards
a lasting and sound solution to our illegal
immigration problem. Democrats are noto-
rious for using the Hispanic vote by prom-
ising high and lofty goals while scaring
Latinos with the evil, xenophobic Repub-
lican plans. The President’s actions are no
different. Under a President Romney how-
ever, Hispanic and other immigrants will

America

and 90 percent of Asians” reading at
grade level. Does that mean Asians have
more of a chance at success than low-in-
coine children? Are black students con-
sidered less capable? Do Hispanics natu-
rally have a lower level of intelligence?
The measures intended to decrease the
ethnic gap are only dragging race into
the spotlight. Again.

These divisions that America makes
all the time in a feeble attempt to help
just cause larger problems in the long
run. Honestly, it seems blatantly patron-
izing to assume that certain ethnicities
need more help than others anyway.
And when those ethnicities keep taking
help, it just promotes the cycle. There
are many success stories and under-
achievers in every ethnicity. It seems
backward, but the very idea of afﬁrma-
tive action promotes ethnic division in a
country that sells a dream of the layman
making his way here despite his origins.

I’m not saying that America’s at-
tempts to rectify racial relations weren’t
honorable. I’m just saying that we took
it too far. All you really get handed to
you for being Polish in America is an in-
grained love of kielbasa and the inability
to spell your family name. And yet we
quietly rose from being under-educated
potato farmers to complete ethnic equal-
ity. On our own. Your move, “minori-
ties”.

not be used as voting pawns. Mitt Romney
knows that part of getting America work-
ing again is by taking full advantage ofthe
drive and enthusiasm of oIIr newest resi-
dents. That  why Mitt Romney will work
to increase legal immigration. to make sure
we have the best workers possible for our
soon to be thriving economy. Mitt‘s first
priority is the ﬁrst priority of all Ameri-
cans, jobs. His approach to immigration
will be no different. Barack Obama”s how-
ever? We will have to wait for the next
election to see.
Sincerely,
David Thomas ‘ I 5

 

 Q

ABLE LEGAL REPRESENTATION

RELIABLE AND AFFORD
 RECKLESS DRIVING

 

SHEILAMOHEB@MOHEB

SPEEDING
DUIS

OOOOO

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS
CAR ACCIDENTS
o CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS

LEGAL.coIvI - (540) 520-7355

 

  

  

M 0ND,AY, OCTOBER 22,2012

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

n

  pinions  

Benghazi and the debates: Hit by a smooth criminal

Analyzing the unsaia’ subtext and the true importance of the Libya question in the Presidential debates

By JP Beall

* OPINIONS EDITOR

Everyone has been talking about the

performance in last week’s presiden-
tial debate at Hofstra University last
Wednesday. Besides Romney’s “bind-
ers full of women” comment that made
the monastic Facebook meinosphere so
giddy in the ﬁngertips, the most notable
point of contention was over a question
about the Benghazi attacks.
' Obama supporters have been roaring
with approval at the reprimand sound
bite handed down from the moderator
to Romney on national television. Bar-
ring entirely that she_ effectively spelled
out how both candidates were right, a
“gimme” question for Romney managed
to become short-term political capital for
Obama.

Far more underpublicized, and coinci-
dentally far more important, than Candy
Crowley dipping her ﬁngers in Rom-
ney’s “cake batter” was how the actual
question was asked, and how Obama
answered.

The question came from a Kerry Lad-
ka, and is included below as seen in/an
NPR transcript of the debate available
online:

“This question actually comes from a
brain trust of my friends at Global Tele-
com Supply. in Mineola yesterday. We
were sitting around talking about Libya,
and we were reading and became aware
of reports that the State Department re-
fused extra security for our embassy in

Benghazi, Libya, prior to the attacks that
killed four Americans. Who was it that
denied enhanced security and why?”
This question was in the context of
several things that happened immedi-
ately before the debate. First, all major
newspapers had just announced that the
State Department recanted its oﬂicial

 

story of the Benghazi attacks, and Hil-
ary Clinton had stepped forward to take
responsibility for the crisis where four
Americans, including the ‘ ambassador,
were martyred for their country.‘

These events took place because State
Department documents came forward
showing that the late Ambassador Ste-
phens had predicted the embassy would
be attacked on 9/ll nearly a month
ahead of the fact. He noted that intel-
ligence said a terrorist plot was being

hatched because it was becoming well
known the embassy was lightly guarded.
His request for marine guard and to be-
gin removing no_n-combatants from the
embassy was buried.

Bearing all this in mind, the question is
quite simple. Who denied our embassy
security, and why? His question was
never really answered, but the answer
provided is telling.

If Obama’s story about Secretary of
State Clinton accepting full responsibil-
ity meant a lick, he would have stuck
with it. It would be easy enough to leave
it at that and move on to an easier ques-

' tron.

But he didn’t.

He began, “these aren’t just represen-
tatives of the United States; they’re my
representatives. I Send them there, of-
tentimes into harm’s way. lknow these
folks, and I know their families. So no-
body’s more concerned about their safe-
ty and security than I am.”

So then, why was the attack allowed
to happen if his administration had prior
warning from his appointee, who has
a family back here in the US he would
have liked to see again? This sounds
more like a carefully worded admission
of guilt rather than an argument for in-
nocence. '

He continued, “So as soon as we found
out that the Benghazi consulate was be-
ing overrun, I was on the phone with my

national security team, and I gave them
three instructions. Number one, beef up
our- security and — and — and proce-
dures not just in Libya but every embas-
sy and consulate in- the region. Number
two, investigate exactly what happened,
regardless of where the facts lead us, to
make sure that folks are held account-
able and it doesn’t happen again.”

This was an attempt to sidestep the
question. His administration was ill pre-
pared for the attack, so he would show
how he reacted. What followed was ad-
mirable interventional foreign policy for
the man who urged the country to adopt
preventative healthcare legislation. I

“Number 2” is a nice glittering gener-
ality, a nod to a campaign plank of trans-
parency. Take another look at the quote.
There are no identifying speciﬁcs. Any-
where. Oddly enough, he still has not
given the audience the story of what ex-
actly happened in Libya. He never men-
tioned if anyone was held accountable,‘
or who should be. Items like these are
good political capital. It can only help
ease blame and remove this particular

~ horse fly from his campaign ointment.

If he had everything to gain from shar-
ing some kind of speciﬁcs with America,
why“ didn’t he? Perhaps the timer was
running low?

Immediately after, he remarked, “Gov-
emor Romney had a very different re-
sponse. While we were still dealing with

our diplomatsbeing threatened, Gover-
nor Romney put out a press release try-
ing to make political points. And that’s
not how a commander in chief operates.
You don’t turn national security into a
political issue, certainly not right when
it’s happening.”

Part of me applauds Obama for say-
ing that national security is not an issue
for politics. This argument might have
worked too, only that Obama is still tak-
ing credit for killing Osama bin Laden,
all the while never crediting the Navy
Seals who actually killed him. As a mat-
ter of fact, he did so again in the very
next paragraph of his response.

Let me get this straight, Obama will
take political credit for foreign policy
successes, and deny any credit for for-
eign policy disasters?

Nearly a month and a half after a na-
tional calamity abroad where four Amer-
ican non-combatants died apparently
needlessly because they were citizens
and servants of this country, and this

> country still does not have the answers.

What’s more, Obama’s attempts at quiet-
ing the furor do not add up logically. Ev-
eryone, this is a point to keep watch on,
because if Romney wakes up and ﬁgures
out what fell into his lap that night, this
is a point that could changethe game.

Between Missouri’s Republican Sen-
ate candidate Todd Akin’s inflamma-
tory remark that abortion is permissi-
ble in cases of ‘‘.legitimate rape” and a
Democratic Natiiorial Convention that
hid President Obama’s \voeful han-
dling ofthe economy behind countless
flashy speeches applauding the pr ‘
dent’s blind support for unrestricted
abortions, the question of abortion has
undoubtedly become a hot-button is-
sue ofthe 20l2 election. Mitt Romney
has provided us with a refreshing and
principled stance on this key issue.
separating himself not only from Akin
and the President. but from the GOP
platform. The GOP adopted a plank
that states that an “unborn child has

a fundamental individual right to life
that cannot be infringed," a plank in-
compatible with the notion of excep-
tions for pregnancies resulting from
rape or incest.

The Romney campaign was quick
to distinguish between the GOP plat-
form and Mr. Romney’s view by not-
ing one slight difference between the
two. Promoting a slightly more mod-
erate position. Mr. Romney is solidly
pro-life. believing that life begins at
conception and that "/\mericans have

a moral duty to uphold the sanctity of

life" while also supporting exceptions
and a woman’s right to choose in the
case of rape or incest.

That aside. Mr. Romney’s view on

largely matches that of his
part, He denounces the Roe v. Wade
decision and believes that its over-
turn will liberate the issue from the
hands of Linelected judges and place
it in those of the American people.
He believes that this will enable the
states to determine their own abortion
laws and trusts the democratic process
to implement the measures that the
American people choose. Mr. Roini i
also intends to end federal funding r
institutions that advocate for abortion,
protect the right of doctors to let their
conscience guide their work. nominate

judges who will not submit to blatant
judicial activism and personal opinion

while on the court, and promote the

protection of life not just in America.
but beyond our borders as well.

Mr. Romney’s reasonable and prin-
cipled stance on abortion only seems
more so when compared to that of
President Obama and the Democratic
Party. The Democratic platform op-
poses all restrictions on abortions
and fully supports Roe v. Wade and
a woman‘s right to ehoose~regai'd—
less of if she can afford an abortion
or not. President Obama even goes so
far as to call the right to an abortion
“one of the most fundamental rights
we possess." As such, the choice is
not between a pro-life or pro-choice
candidate. Mr. Romney‘s view rightly
allows the inal decision on abortion to

Reps

By Jillian Katterhagen
GUEST WRITER
fall to the states, so that the democratic
process will empower the American
people to choose for themselves how
to handle abortion. President ()bama‘s
unequivo ‘al support for Roe v. Wade
suggests that he considers the matter
removed from the hands of Ameri-
cans. The choice. then. is whether or
not we want to decide for ourselves
how to handle 21b0I‘Il0l1, and really,
this isn‘t much of a choice at all. Mr.
Romney‘s abortion platform not oi y
protects countless unborn children
from being killed. it reveals his faith
in the American people and our demo-
cratic system to choose for ourselves
how we want our lives to be governed.
The choice is clear.

8

0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

arts&|ife

 

Pronto Caffe Gelateria might be the best
thing to arrive in Lexington since better cell
phone service. The gelato cafe is the new
project for The Livery Restaurant owners
Fi‘ancesco and Meridith Benincasa, and sits
across from the Southern Inn on Main Street.
By bringing the very best in ﬂavor and char-

_ acter to the classic Italian treat, ice cream

shops in Lexington might have some trouble
keeping up with this hit. _

The interior design for Pronto is fresh and
clean, combining metal tablesland gleaming
trashcans with twine-like chairs and a clas-

sic chalkboard menu. The shiny lighting and -

equipment behind the counter is an impres-
sive sight, and could easily challenge any
Starbucks toacoffee-brewing battle. . _ ‘
Small but mighty, the menu offers sea-
sonal treats like a “Fall Caprese
Sandwich,“ and the

classic choices of

biscotti, cookies,

and croissants

togcreate a

plethora of

Tahe aB|TEOutcf£eX.

meal and snack options. The coffee beans
are all imported directly from Italy, and offer
an extremely rich, authentic taste for coffee
lovers. For those who are not coffee addicts

(like myself), the chai latte is withouta doubt ,

the best combination of cream and smooth
chai flavor in Lexington.

The gelato is served in classic Italian style,
artfully scooped into’ small colorful bowls
and dripping over thevsides. The ﬂavors are
plenti_ful, ranging from classic vanilla to

‘ salted peanut and peach. Gelato, unlike ice

cream, is made with whole and‘ skim milk
rather than cream, and this allows the ﬂavors
to truly impress the taste buds. Chocolate
tastes more chocolate-y and richer, while
the kiwi and strawberry ﬂavors are fresh
andrfruity, but still light and refreshing. I can
close my eyes and'see the strawberry ﬁelds
from which the gelato began.

The gelato ﬂavors are seasonal, and the
ocean waves-like presentation is enough to
make anyone order too much. The young
adults who workat Pronto seem genuinely
interested in theirjobs (or at least in the pros-

pect of free gelato) and provide wonderful
service.

Pronto, despite its high-class style, main-
tains low prices. Gelato prices (based on cup
size) range li'om around three to ﬁve dollars,
while the sandwiches are never more than
seven. The coffee and drink prices take the
cake, with'a single cup being $1.85 and the
small Chai latte costing only $3.50. I

In this small town, I've been waiting for a
cafe to arrive that refreshes my taste buds and
my mind. Ilere, the music isjust loud enough
and the Wi-Fi strong and uncomplicated. So
Generals. whether you need a place for your
family to meet your new signiﬁcant other
this Parents’ Weekend, or you are suffering
from an unmanageable chocolate addiction.

‘ Pronto is the place to go to solve your prob-

lems. At least until all the gelato is gone.

  

Whose cuisine reigns supreme?

PAA CE br0ught“Ir0n Chef” to campus this Saturday, as students teamed up and competed to serve the best Asian dish

By Caroline Hamp
STA F F w R I T : R
The Pan-Asian Association for Cul-

tural Exchange (PAACE) does exactly
what its name says: it exchanges cultural
knowledge within the Washington and
Lee campus. Speciﬁcally, this student
organization focuses on Asian heritage.
They host a slew of events aimed at
spreading the appreciation and aware-
ness of Asian culture. From bringing
in an educational speaker for an engag-
ing lecture, to celebrating the Chinese
New Year with a traditional feast, or
just hanging out with people of differ-
ent backgrounds and learning about
their lifestyles, PAACE brings students
together (often with the help of food).
One of the most popular of these diver-

After a tasty feast of all the competition dishes, sophomores Han-

sifying eventsjust so happens to be their
very own version of Iron Cheﬂ

Here are the basics: five teams, one
dish per team, three judges, and lots of
competition. Although the television
show has a cooking time limit, this past
Saturday’s competition started early in
the afternoon so participants could ad-
equately prepare for dinner. And thank
goodness there were no time restric-
tions: most Asian dishes take a lot of
time, skill, and precision.

The judges didn’t mess around. Pro-
fessor l-longchu Fu, Department Head
of East Asian Languages and Litera-
ture, strived to understand the origins of
each dish. and was particularly keen on

nah Paulk, Monette Veral, and Emily Atsuko smile for the camera.

 

learning which area of the world each
dish came from. (Sophomore Adrian
Xu, who used a recipe straight from
his mother’s cookbook, threw Profes-
sor Pu quite a curveball). At the same
time, International Student Advisor and
Associate Director Mrs. Amy Richwine
focused on the aroma of each dish and
often commented on the varying spices.
Professor David Bello, Associate Pro-
fessor of History and Director of East
Asian Studies, gave each dish an award,
such as Best Appearance for the bright-
ly-colored mixed rice dish.

The dishes ranged from the spicy

Korean mixed rice to the Chinese sweet-
and-sour pork ribs. Senior Joseph Til-
ghman, a lone ranger after his partner
dropped out, was single-handedly try-
ing to win with a vegetarian dish. My
personal favorite was the Korean pan-
cakes, a savory version ﬁlled with veg-
etables and shrimp. Apparently though,
thejudges didn’t completely agree with
me. The winner went to an equally
deserving, deliciously sweet dessert
dish (of course... who doesn’t love
dessert?). Juniors Ginny Huang and
Christy Haiying Cui made double-layer
steamed milk with honey and bananas,
a popular Chinese treat. Their prize:
free Sweet Things Ice Cream!

“I’m glad they won,” commented
sophomore Cathy Wang. “That dessert
is tough to make... it takes a lot oftime
and skill. I was impressed!”

Sound like fun to you? PAACE
continues to teach W&L students about
Asian culture in creative ways. Keep
your eyes peeled for more upcoming
events, or ask secretary sophomore
Christine Jung to receive the informa-
tional PAACE emails.

ophomores Heeju, Jang, Marissa Gilbert, and Thao M long

show off their latest homemade, deliciouscreation.

   

'“-42__.

\2f q9_ngengn.sense

The man sued.... and won.

A North
Carolina man,
having purchased
a case of very rare and

expensive cigars, insured them

against ﬁre among other things. Within

a month, having smoked his entire stockpile of
cigars and without having made even his ﬁrst policy

payment, the man ﬁled a claim against the insurance

company. In his claim, he stated the cigars were lost ”in a
series of small ﬁres.”The insurance company refused to pay,

citing the obvious reason that the man had consumed the cigars in the normal fashion.

In delivering the ruling, thejudge agreed thatthe claim was frivolous, but stated
nevertheless that the man held a policy from the company in which it had warrantedtthat
the cigars were insurable and also guaranteed that it would insure against ﬁre, without

” deﬁning, what it considered to be ’’unacceptable ﬁre,”and was obligated to pay the claim.
Rather than endure a lengthy and costly appeal process, the insurance company accepted
the ruling and paid the man $15,000 for the cigars he lost in the "ﬁres.”

After the man cashed the check, however, the company had him arrested on 24
counts of arson. With his own insurance claim and testimony from the previous case used
against him_, the man was convicted of intentionally burning his own insured property
and sentenced to 24 months in jail and a $24,000 ﬁne.

SSA: revealed

A sneak peek at the apcoming conference events

By Lisa Stoiser
STAFF WRITER

Maybe you’ve run into them by the
Commons. or maybe you’ve tripped over

them in the Quad. Maybe you’re like’

Leah Gose ’l5, and you’ve turned them
into the objects of an open-ended scaven-
ger hunt. Said Gose: “I think they’re up-
side down, but I love ﬁnding them every
day. lt’s a game that I can’t lose.”

So, what are these big blue blocks that
spell out “S-S-A” all over campus?

Upon further investigation, we’ve
found that they are actually just big,
painted—blue, blocks. Hollow plywood
constructions held together with nails. ‘

But, these SSA blocks represent
something more — they are the ofﬁcial
icon of W&L’s 5th Science, Society, and
the Arts conference (SSA).

SSA is a biennial weekend extrava-
ganza in all areas of academia coming
to campus in March. In true celebration
of the liberal arts, everyone, regardless
of political affiliation, poetical prefer-
ences, or major(s) of study, is invited to
participate. After all, what isn’t a part of
science, society, or arts?

Its easy to get involved. Students
can participate in a book colloquia, pres-
ent their own work, or simply attend the
meeting. Classes are conveniently sus-
pended on Friday of the convention, and
everyone who attends gets a free t-shirt, a
lot of knowledge, and some food. Here’s
how tojoin the SSA:

Book Colloquia - 21 book Colloquia
will be held in two separate sessions on
Friday, March 8th. If you sign up online
(ssa.wIu.edu) by November 30, 2012, the
SSA team will send you a free book that
you’-ll get to discuss for about an hour

with ll other participants. Never had
the nerve to buy 50 Shades of Grey for
yourself? Join discussion leader Cynthia
Lam ’l5 in the morning session and get
the book sent to you for free. Don’t be-
lieve everything your history professor
has to say? Aubri Chamigo ‘l3 will be
leading a discussion on Loewen’s Lies
My Teacher Told Me: Everything Your
American History Textbook Got Wrong.

Project Presentations - Have a paper
you’re really proud of? Working on the
masterpict =. composition of your college
career? Then you’re encouraged to sub-
mit your V\u.- °or presentation at SSA5.
The opportunity looks great on a resume,
and almost anything goes... as long as
your work shows some effort and inter-
ests you, it’s appropriate SSA5 material!
Co-authored works and works that are
“almost-there” (but still in-progress) are
welcome as well. The submission dead-
line for project proposals is January 25th,
2013, but no harm comes from submit-
ting early. I

The Meeting - The ofﬁcial meeting
kicks off on Thursday night with posters
and performances, presented and per-
formed by your fellow students. Friday
is ﬁlled with the book colloquia, more
presentations, and a luncheon keynote
speaker. This meeting’s speaker is Dr.
Richard Alley, who will be presenting
on climate problems and potential so-

lutions. He’s a co-recipient of the 2007 ‘

Nobel Peace Prize and is supposed to be
funny, too. Those who register in Febru-
ary will get a free lunch to go along with
the lecture.

 

  

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&life  

. Carr talksjournalism

rr discusses the future of print

Q.

, Student spotlight: Raya Taylor ‘14

Meet the stage manager of the upcoming show “Bye, Bye Birdie, ” playing this week.’

Award—winning reporter David

By Janey Fugate-
STAFF WR ITER

Culture and media columnist for the

New York Times, reporter David Carr
spoke at Lee Chapel Friday night.

“Where are the bones of Robert E.
Lee?” asked Carr. “That makes two
overworked, decimated people in this
college.”

Carr had just finished working on
uncovering the story of how one of the
Times’ chief competitors, the 80-year-
old magazine Newsweek, is ceasing to
publish in print. The company recently
announced that Newsweek will be ac-
cessible only through online subscrip-
tion beginning next year.

“You’re surrounded by invisible gas
and all of a sudden one of the canaries
falls over,” said Carr, describing the
gravity of the news.

However, Newsweek is just one of
many news aggregates and print sources
to go digital or out of business. Carr cit-
ed other examples such as New Orleans,
which no longer has a daily newspaper,
the trend that virtually every media com-
pany has lower frequencies of print, and

By Mariel Pearl
STAFF WRITER

the fact that numerous magazines have
gone out of business, including Men’s
Vogue, Gourmet, and Vibe. ’

The fade of print media produces
nostalgia in many. But despite the un-
settling loss that Newsweek’s transition
portends for the industry, Carr offered
aspiring journalists hope for a future in
an ever-evolving industry.

“Do not confuse the loss of the arti-
fact,” he said, holding up his print copy
of his speech, “with the loss of the cul-
ture of fact.” .

The New York Times’ business
model has gone from tossing rolled-up
papers into people’s yards to sending
out new content via Twitter every 4 sec-
onds. Its stock is up 40% and 530,000
subscribers online. In other words, news
is not going away any time soon.

Carr also dispelled the pervasive
mentality that the younger generation is
only concerned with Facebook, saying
that over 70 million people watched the
first Presidential debate in real time.

But one of the challenges Carr eit-

,a_ as

ed was being spread thin between so

many forms of media. The lines be-

tween radio. TV. print. and web are 2

being blurred. Every news site is com-
peting for the same sets of eyes. and

journalists are now required to jump '

niinbly from posts, to tweets, and back
to traditional articles, in order to stay
competitive.

“It is eatingime alive,” said Carr. He
held up his iPhone and said, “This is
a leash."

However, at the same time these
new forins of communication tech-
nology have expanded the journalists‘

toolbox, making this “the golden age

of media,” as Carr sees it.
Journalism is adapting, growing,

and morphing to meet the demands of

this era of new technology, making it
both an exhilarating and exasperating
industry to be in. But, as Carr put it,
“Revolution is not the Armageddon."

 #what'snew°ncamvus

‘‘I’m not sure exactly what happened last night, but I’m

pretty sure I had fun” #yolo

‘V’ 31lv",4“ "i7t‘l‘i

W&L was ranked #1 over Yale on some list. So, just be
prepared for every alumni you know to reblog, post, and
shout that from the rooftops.

ii t‘i".X’* '3/w‘lI~§:}.'.’

A W&L worthy Wednesday night pregame.

in i I ',.,.,~

White—ou thefootbll game Saturday! Original theme
was blarskout but coaches and players decided there’d be
enough of that on Friday night

 w~;.r—:.»«;

The cops e aly chll ere. #sh**noonesays #TWLM

"".l‘heHeo—-o i pn util 2:30 now... drunk grilled cheese

errday” #coop

A standard W&L classroom looks exactly like an
elementary school lunchroom: boys on one side, girls on
the other. #TWLM

 not-.~ at ;'.,:ri~,a\t'. i'_t.i~w

Name: Raya Taylor ‘14
Hometown: Goldsboro, NC
Ma1or/_ Minor: Global Politics/ Theatre_ _
BA€tl|\3IIl‘I_ZIeS on campus: “Bye, Bye Birdie," Pi
e a I

What is your role in “Bye, Bye Birdie”?
Stage Manager.

What has been your favorite part of the
rehearsals?

My favorite part is seem the actors bond with
each other over a projec we're all working to-
gether to create.

. What has been your favorite class at W&L?

’ Probably “Swords of Shakespeare.” With “Ballet”
as a close second.

Favorite W&L tradition and why?

Dressing up for football games — it's the reason
it cgme to the school. It's such a Southern thing
0 o.

If you could be immortal for a day, what
would you do?

Everything. Assuming “immortal” also ensures
that ti_me means nothing, so I could do every-
thing in one day. I'd probably start by sleeping
unti Iwoke up without an alarm.

.Your fayorite moment of being a student
at Washington and Lee?

The Mock Con Gala - I a|ways_|ike f_orma|s be-
cause everyone is_dressed so nicely, it was _nice
tosee everyone without the pressure of political,
academic, or Greek afﬁliations, ]USt having fun
dancing to a great band. And I got to spend it
with two of my best friends.

What is your nickname from high school?

Raya Sunshine.

 

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012

  arts&life'

 

The secret lifeof RAS

I13 4 in the morning. Do you know where your RAS are?

By Andrea Owen
STA F F w R l T E R

Baseball cap? Check.

Binder? Check.

Lanyard with master keys? Check.

On-call phone? Check.

Decked out in “uniform” and
equipped with the appropriate supplies,
Residential Advisers set out Saturday to
patrol and protect the student body.

Every Wednesday, Friday, and Sat-
urday nights, at least two Residential
Advisers are “on-call” for undergradu-
ate and law students, taking 11pm and
1:30am rounds through Graham-Lees,
Davis, Gilliam, and Gaines residence
halls, as well as Woods Creek Apart-
ments.

Of course, as students stumble
throughout the dorms and sometimes
suffer from more serious substance-
related conditions, the RA job often
consists of monitoring drug-and-alcohol

' issues. And although resentment may

build towards RAs for their actions in
this realm, Taylor Gilﬁllan, a senior
Residential Adviser, tells students that
essentially, RAs are not responsible for
repercussions.

“We’re not giving strikes,” said Gil-
ﬁllan during his Saturday night rounds,
explaining that not only are drug-and-
alcohol related prosecutions up to the
Dean of Students and the Student Ju-
dicial Council, but that ultimately, the
responsibility for such infractionslies

on the student.
However, despite the apparent glam-
our of their “crime-ﬁghting” responsi-

bilities, RAs would surely say that their
experience is not WLPD.
In fact, the majority of time spent

doing rounds consists of identifying

.¢'.;*|‘A V " ’ =

From left to right, first-year Residential Advisers Taylor Gilfillan and Jordan Kearns, as well as law-
student Residential Adviser Cara Regan stand ready to face the challenges of their jobs.

he_ lookout for how to make things safe.

maintenance-related issues, from bro-
ken wall ﬁxtures to faulty or missing

   

doorknobs.

Gilﬁllan, his tall stature barely ﬁtting
through the halls of Davis, said jokingly
about the dangling nautical ceiling de'-
cor: “I think we need to put in a work
order for this.”

To deal with the sometimes dull
tasks of patrolling, second-year Resi-
dential Adviser Jordan Kearns says he
ﬁnds ways to spice up his job, as he re-
places off-color comments on hall bul-
letin boards and door whiteboards with
more pleasant remarks.

RAS on call also spend much of their
time picking up stray pizza boxes and
making sure theirrespective owners
deal with clean-up. Gilﬁllan demon-
strated his years of RA experience when
he immediately located the phone num-
ber of pizza-box owners on the delivery
labels to request a clean-up.

And although Gilﬁllan assured stu-
dents that RAs are students just like
those they serve, he understands the
seriousness and importance of his du-
ties to the student body and University
as a whole.

“We did sign our names on the dot-
ted line to uphold University policy, and
if we see, smell, or hear something and
don’t follow through on it, that’s essen-
tially breaking down our integrity,” he
said. “We have to do our jobs.” ,

From making sure hallways are orderly to keeping‘ the peace, resident advlsors a

 

C‘

 

 

   

 

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 22,2012

9 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

  

 

 

ports

Generals football suffers ﬁrst loss

31-14 loss leaves the team empty handed

By Sarah Ward
STAFF WRITE R

Washington and Lee scored just two
touchdowns in its 31-14 loss to Bridge-
water at Jopson Field on Saturday, re-
cording the ﬁrst conference loss of the
season.

A fumble in the second quarter at the
Bridgewater 29 yard-line cost the Gener-
als their ﬁrst scoring opportunity and led

to an 85-yard touchdown drive just two ’ ’
possessions later by the Eagles to put the . ‘

score at 10-0.

On their next possession the Generals
were able to make it to the ﬁrst yard line,
but were thwarted after failing to get into

the end zone after going for it on fourth 1

down.

The Generals ﬁnally found me end
zone in the second half with a touch-
down just four minutes into the third
quarter. Senior running back Brett Mur-
ray scored on a 13-yard running play to

Senior defensive back Jake Pelton

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

make the score 10-7 Bridgewater.
A 66-yard touchdown pass two posses-
sions later by Bridgewater quarterback

Willie Logan gave the Eagles a 17-7
edge with 7:17 left in the third quarter.
The Generals responded with a touch-

    

down by senior running back Luke
Heinsohn on a 1-yard rushing play to end
the third quarter with a score of 17-14.

W&L’s next possession ended in a
fumble recovered by Bridgewater that
led to a touchdown with 3:00 remaining
in the game to increase the Eagles’ lead
to ten points.

The Generals’ senior quarterback Nick
Lombardo then threw an interception
that Bridgewater ran back for a touch-
down, which marked the ﬁnal scoring
play, putting the Eagles ahead 31-14.

Lombardo recorded 173 yards with
two interceptions. Heinsohn added 123
yards and a touchdown while Murray
rushed for 80 yards and a touchdown.

Senior linebacker Zach Zoller led the
defense with 11 tackles. 4

The Generals (5-2, 3-1) look to add a
non-conference win to their record ‘as
they travel to Catholic on Saturday for a
1:00 pm game.

Perfect month  

Generals have won every game in October

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s soc-
cer team, extended their wins streak to
nine games this week with wins against
Guilford and Randolph Macon. The
team has not lost a game since falling to
Virginia Wesleyan 1-0 on Sept. 22.

On Tuesday, the Generals hosted Guil-
ford, defeating them soundly by a score
of 6-0. Sophomore Katherine Rush led
the Generals, scoring two goals. Katie
Rossi, Haley Ward, Taylor DeVoe, and
Mary Woodruff Grifﬁn each added a
goal to the total.

Generals’ goalies Kingsley Schroeder
and Addie Healy had an easy day in the
net. In their split time neither of them
were forced to make a save. Guilford got
four shots off but none of them were on
target.

The Generals continued their streak
when they defeated Randolph Macon in
a tough match-up on Saturday, 1-0. Rush
scored the only goal, with her team-lead-
ing 12th goal of the season. Healy had
three saves on the day, preserving the
shutout for the Generals.

1

Going into their final game the Gener-
als record is 13-2-1 overall and 9-1-1 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.
They are currently ranked second in the
conference behind Virginia Wesleyan.
The team ﬁnishes up their regular season
with a home game against Sweet Briar
on Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. before the
ODAC tournament begins on Saturday.

.-34

Sophomore forward Katherine Rush

   

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

United we swim

Coach‘ Gardner, the swimmers enjoying the new make—up of W&L swimming

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER_

Let’s face it: Washington and Lee is
known to be quite segregated by gender.
The swimming program, however, has
broken the mold with its recent uniﬁca-
tion of the men’s and women’s teams.

Early last year men’s head coach Joel
Shinoﬁeld resigned. He eventually be-
came the executive director of the Col-
lege Swimming Coaches Association of
America. In his absence women’s head
coach Kami Gardner took over as inter-
im men’s head coach. W&L’s swimming
program never looked back from there.

Instead of allowing higher authori-
ties dictate the future of W&L’s swim-
ming program, the decision of whether
to keep the team uniﬁed under a single
coach lay in the hands of the swimmers
themselves. This is a process that Coach
Gardner describes as “very student-driv-
en.” The swimmers had thoroughly en-

joyed the fostered uniﬁcation during the
2011-2012 season,‘ as both sides were
able to experience ﬁrst-hand their swim-
ming counterparts’ success. The decision
to unify was easy. In April of this year,
Coach Gardner was officially promoted
to head coach of the men’s swimming
team.

The uniﬁcation’s effect on the team,
even at this early juncture in the season,
is clear to Coach Gardner:

“It has made for a more energetic and
positive atmosphere, and the team en-
joys it,” explains Gardner. “It has led to
bigger and better goals, and [the swim-
mers] want to be viewed as one team.’-’

This boost in morale and camaraderie
is not the only strong foundation for the
team. Gardner herself has earned numer-
ous coaching accolades, including Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Coach of

the Year three out of the previous four
seasons. She believes that her success as
a coach is attributed to the way she al-
locates responsibility to her swimmers,
which gives them “ownership of their
accomplishments and ownership of the
team.”

Coach Gardner begins each season
with the same challenge. “Right now,
this is my team. I hope by the end of the
season you can take it away from me,”
she tells her swimmers. The student-
inspired decision to unify the men’s and
women’s swimming teams is indicative
of the swimmers’ efforts to control their
destiny, to come together without force,
to truly own the team. Both sides will
be cheering each other on as the team
competes against Randolph-Macon next
Monday at home.

women’s first stroke is strong

Brassﬁeld leads well-rounded team

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

After a week of competing in the pool,
Washington and Lee’s women’s swim
team is 2-1 and took the top spot at the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference re-
lays on Saturday.

Over Reading Days the team travelled
to Louisville, Ky. to face Centre and De-
Pauw. They defeated Centre handily by
a score of 184-78 but lost a tight battle
with DePauw 134-157.

First-year Stephanie Foster won two
events for the Generals in the meet. She
won the 100 back in 1:01.87 and the 200
back in 1:00.18. '

The Generals had their home opening
meet on Friday when they were able to
edge out Mary Washington 133-129.

Senior Izzy Brassﬁeld led the way for
the Generals in the close contest with
three ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes. Brassﬁeld won

the 50 free in 25.41 seconds and the 100
free in 55.41 seconds. She was also a
part of the winning 200 free relay. Senior
Delaney Rolfe, junior Meredith Hardy,
and ﬁrst-year Sarah Schaffer joined her
in her efforts.

Rolfe and Schaffer each won individ-
ual events. Sophomore Caroline Hamp
also added two individual victories.

On Saturday the Generals returned to
the Cy Twombly P001 to host the ODAC
relays. W&L took the top spot in nine of
the ten events to take the victory with
454 points. The only event that the Gen-
erals did not win was the 500 yard relay
in which they took third.

The Generals take the pool again this
Saturday as they host Randolph-Macon
at 1 pm.

KYLE JAEGER

   

3
‘Q6

  

the rest of the rotation will be

 

HAILEY HARTLEY

The New York Yankees, my initial pick for the
World Series and personally my favorite team, have
failed me. I felt that the Yankees were the strongest
team in baseball, and to my surprise, the Detroit Ti-
gers promptly swept them. The awe-inspiring per-
formance by‘ the Tigers in the ALCS was enough
to make them title contenders in my mind. Their 4
straight wins, combined with slight personal bias
(if the Yanks can’t win, I would rather have the
team that beat them win) make the Detroit Tigers
my selection to win the World Series.

One big factor in the playoffs is timing. The Ti-
gers are red hot right now, firing on all cylinders.
They seem to have the most momentum of any
team in baseball.-Also, the sweep of the Yankees
gives the Tigers time to rest their pitchers and star
players. The winner of the Cardinals/Giants match-
up will not be as mentally and physically prepared
for the World Series because they will have a much
shorter turnaround time than the Tigers.

The Tigers as a team are stacked. Miguel Ca-
brera, the favorite for AL MVP, combined with
Prince Fielder, give the Tigers the best 1-2 punch
in baseball. They may be the best offensive team in
baseball, as shown by their series clinching 8-1 win
against the Yankees, a perennial offensive power-
house. While the batting is strong, their pitching
may be better. Justin Verlander could be the best
pitcher in the playoffs right now, and any time he is
on the mound the Tigers should expect to win. He
will be well rested entering the World Series, and

able to provide great support
in between his starts.

St. Louis is currently lead-
ing the»NLCS 3-1 against the

 

H.-.A!.l

As I write this, the MLB
National League is still up
in the air. The St. Louis
Cardinals are up 3 games to
2 against the San Francisco

 

Giants. This is a good sign for
the Tigers. The Giants rely on

All but three MLB teams have fallen in their
quest for a World Series Championship. Only
the Tigers, Cardinals, and Giants remain.

Giants. Despite the Giants’
amazing comeback against

strong pitching, and the tre— who wiuwin it any thé R€dS in the N1-D5, 1 3111
mendous bat of Buster Posey_ Hailey and Kyle go to bat for who they think convinced the Cardinals are
will take home the crown.

This could prove problematic

going to be able to pull this

to the Tigers, as the Giants’
pitching might be able to over-
power the Tigers’ bats. However, if the Cardinals
hold on to win the NLCS, the matchup for the Ti-
gers will be a good one. Like the Tigers, the Cardi-
nals rely on a few strong pitchers and a very good
lineup of hitters. The Cardinals make up as a team
is quite similar to the Tigers. The difference be-
tween the teams lies in execution. The Tigers’ play-
ers are simply better than the Cardinals. I would
rather have Justin Verlander on the mound than
Adam Wainright, and I would rather have Miguel
Cabrera and Prince Fielder up to bat than Matt Hol-
liday and Matt Carpenter. I

Overall, the variables of time and matchups
that often set teams apart in the playoffs are point-

"ing in the Tigers’ favor, and they are the most well

-rounded team left in the playoffs. I have no doubt
that the Tigers will win the World Series. I predict
that the Tigers beat the Cardinals 4-2 in the best of
seven series.

series out (okay, maybe I’m

a little biased). They’ve far
exceeded anyone’s expectations of their ﬁrst post-
Albert Pujols season. They’ve done an incredible
amount of damage, defeating the Braves in the
wild card single game elimination and beating
who many considered to be the World Series fa-
vorites, the Washington Nationals.

Their incredible comeback win in game ﬁve
showed they can never be counted out of a game.
They were down to their last strike against the
Nats in Washington. Did I mention they were
down by six in just the third inning? These guys
are incredible. This is a team that very few peo-
ple gave a chance without Albert Pujols. They’re
playing as the upset team, the team no one gave
a chance, despite being the returning champions.

The team is playing at their best when they
need to. Last year’s postseason hero David Freese
is batting .333 against some of the best pitchers
in the league. Carlos Beltran has returned the

Cardinals’ lineup. Young guys like shortstop Pete
Kozma are making a name for themselves this
postseason. And veterans like Carlos Beltran and
Matt Holliday are looking to solidify themselves
among some of baseball’s elite.

The Cardinals’ starting pitchers are getting the
job done. But what’s really making the difference
for the pitchers is the run support. St. Louis is
averaging over nine rims per win this postseason,
while their losses are coming out’ to less than two
runs per game. The batting power is allowing the
pitchers to make little mistakes, which in a tighter
game (aka, their losses) make the difference in
the win-loss column.

The Cardinals just need a little postseason
magic to pull off back-to-back championship sea-
sons. It hasn’t been done since the ’98-’99-’00
Yankees did it with the Core Four. St. Louis may
not have that kind of star power, but they have
the right motivation to keep the Commissioner’s
Trophy in St: Louis.

 

 

10> ' THE RING-TUMi PHI 0

MONDAY,

OCTOBER 22,2012

sports

 

inthe numbers

1

Indiana University is ranked first in the USA Today coaches’
preseason poll. They received 21 out of 31 first place votes
on their way to getting 761 total points. They return four
starters from a team that made it to the Sweet 16last year.
Louisville is ranked second and University of Kentucky is

ranked third.

Number of weeks in a row that Alabama Crimson Tide have
been ranked number one in the AP college football poll.
This is a new school record. The previous record was seven

which they achieved twice, in 1979 and 1980.

soapbox

“We needed something different. I think
you're going to notice a difference. We ,
need somebody to increase the way things
are around here and John’s the guy. I’m
excited.”

-Davld Ortiz about the Red Sox hlnn of
John Ferrell as their new manager. rrell
has been managing the Toronto Blue Jays

“No matter what situation we’re in, no
matter how many points we need or a ﬁeld
goal we need, we have the conﬁdence we
can do it. We have a lot of conﬁdence in
each other, and in Eli. ”

-New York Giants’ receiver Victor Cruz after
Sunday's game versus the Washington
Redskins. Eli threw a game winning
touchdown with 1:13 ieftin the game_to.
take the victory. Manning now has 22
game winning drives in the fourth quarter
or overtime in his career, from ESPN.com

ondeck

By Hailey Hartley
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Men’s soccer fell for the ﬁrst
time since Sept. 25 in a 3-0 loss
to Roanoke on Saturday. With the
loss, the Generals fall into second
place in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference behind Roanoke
heading into the last week of the
regular season.

The Generals had just one shot
on goal against Roanoke. Senior
defender Collier Wiseman was
the lone General to force Maroon
goalkeeper Cole Sinclair to make

a save.

Roanoke’s Chris Conover was
the playmaker for the Maroons,
scoring all three of their goals on
each of his three shots.

On the defensive side, goalie
Albeit Civitarese made two saves
in the entire contest.

The Generals also played a
tough match-up earlier in the
week when they faced Randolph
on Tuesday. The game ended in a
0-0 tie after both teams failed to

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

score in the 90 minutes of play
in regulation and the additional
twenty minutes from two over-
times. '

Civitarese was the main differ-
ence for the Generals. Washington
and Lee was once again having
trouble putting the ball near the
net. The Generals were only able
to put one shot on goal that Ran-
dolph goalkeeper Carter Smith
was able to save. Civatarese made
six saves, including two in the

Generals can’t ﬁnd net

Washington and Lee only gets two Shots on goal in 200 minutes of play

overtimes, to keep Randolph off
of the board.

Going into the last week of the
regular season the team’s record
is 9-4-2, 6-2-2 in the ODAC. The
team will play their ﬁnal game
of the regular season at East-
ern Mennonite on Tuesday. The
ODAC tournament begins on Sat-
urday.-

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

All eyes were on senior right
side hitter Taylor Maxey as the
Washington & Lee volleyball
team swept Guilford 3-0.

Maxey was honored during the
last home match of the season last
Wednesday. She is the only senior
on the squad.

Maxey’s six foot frame is a bit
intimidating once you meet her.
It’s even scarier when you learn
during track season she throws
shot put, discus, hammer as well
as indoor weight.

Beyond athletics, Maxey’s
schedule is ﬁlled with activities
including drama, work at the ITS
Information Desk in James G.
Leybum Library, and her work
study at the Lenfest Center. She
says she is amazed she can do all
of it.

But it was Maxey’s performance
of strength and athleticism that
helped the Generals defeat Guil-
ford 25-20, 25-13, and 25-19.
With the win, the Generals moved
to a 19-7 overall record and a 7-1

conference record.

Maxey contributed four kills
and two blocks in the victory. She
had a .273 kill percentage only
behind those ofjunior outside hit-
ter M.A. Boles and ﬁrst-year out-
side hitter Anna Lausberg. Boles
led the team with 19 kills and
Lausberg added 14.

Maxey had totaled 251 kills and
73 blocks in 184 career sets coin-
ing into the match against Guil-
ford.

The victory last Wednesday also

Snyder wins 400th

Maxey honored in ﬁnal home game of the season

marked 400 career wins for Head
Coach Bryan Snyder. in his 522nd
match, Snyder improved his ca-
reer winning percentage to .766.
His percentage is currently the 12
best in the history ofNCAA Divi-
sion lll coaches with a minimum
of 10 years coaching.

The Generals will return to play
on Wednesday, Oct. 24 at Bridge-
water.

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee ﬁeld
hockey team ﬁnished the weekend
1-] after “sticking it to cancer” on
Saturday and celebrating Senior
Day on Sunday.

The Generals defea‘ted Virginia
Wesleyan 2-1 on Saturday in the
“Stick It To Cancer” game held
on the W&L Turf Field. The team
sold shirts and hadlhalftime ac-
tivities to raise money for the Na-
tional Foundation for Cancer Re-
search (NFCR).

Senior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne
had nine saves to set the record
for career saves at W&L. Junior
midﬁelder Lauren Boone and ﬁrst-
year forward Charlotte MacDon-
ald scored the two goals early in
the game for W&L. V

The achievements of Kyne and
fellow senior Chelsea Stevenson
were celebrated at the last regular
season home game on Sunday at
the W&L Turf Field.

Kyne holds three records for
the Generals; This season she has

which as of Saturday’s game is
134. She also holds the single

set the single season saves record .

game saves record with 21 which
she set last year in a game versus
Catholic, and the career saves re-
cord.

Stevenson has played in all but
two games in her career. Since her
sophomore year she has started all
but two games. This season Ste-
venson leads the team with four
goals. /

Kyne and Stevenson say they
will miss the competition and the
team atmosphere the most. They
advised fellow teammates to en-
joy the time they have left on the
team.

“I can’t imagine how I’m- going
to feel in a few weeks when I am
done with team sports forever,”
Stevenson said.

The Generals lost 5-1 to sev-
enth ranked Christopher Newport
on Senior Day. F irst-year for-
ward Claire Townsley scored the
lone goal for the Generals. Kyne
played all 70 minutes for the Gen-
erals and tallied 15 saves.

The team will ﬁnish up the regu-
lar season on Wednesday, Oct. 24
at Bridgewater.

Senior goalkeeper Kirten Kyne

FH sticks it to cancer

Kyne breaks career record in game dedicated to ﬁnding a cure

 

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

I

. e _ .
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

Field Hockey at Bridgewater4pm ODACSTBC
Men’s Soccer au;-Mu7pm ODACSTBC
wom-envs soccer vsSweetBriar4pm oDAcsT3c

Cross Country

ODACS W:11, M:12

Volleyball

at Bridgewater 6:30 pm

2 contests in ATL

at Emory 3:30 pm

Football 4

at Catholic 1 pm

Swimming

vs Roanoke 4:30 pm.

vs R-M ~1pm

 

