 

 
 

aewwrears

clpwmgm ml:

A&L/g page 6

If that’s

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSl,'1Yi 

whata up affl   A   ,
what you were thinking after 
selling back books, you’re not alone.

OPINIONS / page 4 1

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2 0 13

By Andrea Owen
5 TA F F w R IT E R

With the challenges of winter weather
and all concurrent patterns at Washing-
ton and Lee—from “New Member Edu-
cation” to academic stressors——the sec-
ond term takes a toll on student health.

Seasonal Affective Disorder

“There are certainly people who are
sensitive to less light in the winter,” said
Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Student
Health and Counseling Services, as she
described Seasonal Affective Disorder,
or SAD.

MayoClinic deﬁnes SAD as “a type of
depression that occurs at the same time
every year,” usually during the fall and
winter months.

According to the National College
Health Assessment survey data from
2012, the percentage of students at W&L
who “have felt very sad” within the last
12 months is 69.1%, which is almost
10% higher than the national average,
61.0%. I

With a population at seemingly higher
risk for mood issues, the school is pre-
pared to deal with SAD.

As bright light exposure has been

Avoiding

B STUDENTS

the school offers light lamps at various
campus locations: Leyburn Library (5
lamps), the Science Center Library (2
lamps) and the Law Library (2 lamps).
The school tells students, however, that
natural light has a stronger effect than do
therapeutic lamps.

Horton also assured the student body
that the Counseling and Student Health
Centers are available to students with
symptoms of depression.

ln addition to the disturbance of mental
health at this time of year is the distur-
bance of physical health.

“There are also people who probably
don’t get out and get as much exercise
during the winter,” said Horton.

She emphasized that getting regu-
lar exercise as well as eating right and
sleeping 7-8 hours a night support not
only one’s immune system but also his/
her emotional health.

Sororities and Fraternities

And in addition to the challenges of
the weather that cause health problems
at this time of year are factors more spe-
ciﬁc to W&L.

“Winter term seems to be quite stressfulfor students

given that they are trying to do ﬁraternity and soror-

ity recruitment and new member education on top of

a busy academic schedule. ”

JANE HORTON, Director of Student Health and counseling Services

found to alleviate symptoms of SAD,

“Winter term seems to be quite stress-

AND FOR
0

ful for students given that they
are trying to do fraternity and so-
rority recruitment and new mem-
ber education on top of a busy
academic schedule,” said Hor-
ton, describing some of the pri-
mary concerns the Health Center
has for students in January and

 

INTHE LASTIZMONTH
.._.VVERY,SAD V.

THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXV|l,NUMBER11

S.A.D this Winter term

  

s, HAVE You

   

February.
“There are times when we’ve
had to write notes to the pledge

educator of the fraternity or
president of the fraternity ask-
ing students to be excused from
what activities are supposed to be
mandatory,” said Horton.

 

Horton said that she believes

 

pledge educators do in fact honor

  
 

Health Centerrequests.

She also said that not only
does pledgeship often interfere
with sleep and cause numerous
alcohol-related health concerns,

Males Females

U.S,'col|ege students" 51.00% 66.30% 5 ’
W&L students 54.60% ’ 76.40%
...V.ERY LONELY

, . Males . ‘Females TQta.l A  “"7"
U.S. college students 77.20% 91.00% 5  ‘86.10%
W241 stiidents ' 82.50% 96.40%» '

...,E-XHAU STE D(NOT FROMPHYSICAL AcT1v1Tv‘)i 

» R611 (1%.

 
 

. 7;,’

    

but that fraternity and sorority —. g , Males Fema|es‘— '5 ‘Total »  
members are, she believed, much 1 ’ ’ 1 ‘N  1 T. ‘I
61036,“, each other at this time US. college students 73.20% 86.10%  .1 ,.,_8_1.6,0%,,
of year. allowing gems to Spread W&L students 79.40% 91.50% . ” '87.4Q%_‘
quickly. I ‘  ' ” ‘
“we’11 often see 3 or 10 mem- the week. ter, the University makes sure there are

bers of a fraternity all coming in with the
same symptoms over a weeklong period,
and that is presumably being passed
from person to person,” said Horton.
Jan Kaufman, W&L’s Director of
Health Promotion, added that disease
is common at this time of year because
people have brought back illness from
their winter travels. In fact, Dr. Horton
said in a Tuesday meeting that she ex-
pected to see the ﬁrst case of ﬁu within

Prevention

“We are aware that [winter term] is a
more difﬁcult time for people at the Uni-
versity,” said Jason Rodocker, Assistant
Dean for First-Year Experience. “We
deﬁnitely do make certain that there are
a lot of activities and options, a lot of
positives going on.”

Rodocker explained that to help stu-
dents deal with the stresses of the win-

plenty of events through organizations
like Outing Club.

Jan Kaufman also emphasized the text-
book methods of personal care, such as
exercising, eating right, washing hands
and getting enough sleep, to help stu-
dents deal with the health issues of win-
ter term. .

“I can’t overemphasize that,” she said.

 

Washington H

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Washington Hall, the oldest building
on campus, now looks like the newest.
F-A . . . .
 ’  N 1‘ .| . ‘
. .-“J ..-‘jrgﬂy  

2011.

For just the second time in nearly 200
years, it has been renovated. Opening
ﬁrst in 1824, this winter term it opened
for the ﬁrst time since mid-July 20,11,
welcoming the Oﬁices of the President
and Provost, University Advancement,
a few professors in the English Depart-
ment and nearly all faculty members of
the Philosophy Department. '

The Ofﬁces of the President, Provost
and University Advancement had been
in Mattingly House prior to moving in.
Faculty in the English and Philosophy
Departmentshad had offices in Baker
Hall.

“The exterior should look fresh and re-
newed,” said Tom Kalasky, Director of
Design and Construction at Washington
and Lee’ University. “The interiors, we
call that a historic rehabilitation, where

we’re very sensitive to maintaining as
much of the historic fabric as possible.”

1-‘ 5 -

The $7.5 million renovation is part of
Washington and Lee University’s $50
million, ﬁve-year blueprint for restor-
ing the ﬁve main buildings comprising
the Colonnade, designated a National
Historic Landmark in 1972 by the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior. Washington
Hall, the center building on the Colon-
nade, has not been modernized since it
was made ﬁreproofin 1936.

The crux of the problem is preserving
the building’s historic status while reha-
bilitating its outdated components. “The
challenges are always, ‘How do you get
modern systems into a building while
still maintaining the historic fabric?’,”
said Kalasky.

The University has acknowledged as
much, having named its capital cam-
paign, “Honor Our Past, Build Our Fu-

all opens its doors

I

ture: The Campaign for Washington and
Lee.” The renovation of this and other

‘?  _ ‘ .i_._i,. ~ :1’

Washington Hall has just opened up for Winter Term. It has been closed due to renovations since July

buildings on the Colonnade is funded, in
part, by this projected $500 million ef-
fort which, thus far, has amassed $384
million.

Similarly, Washington Hall, by recog-
nizing the University’s continuing tradi-
tion of philanthropy, has honored its past
in a manner which the newly-renovated
Newcomb and Payne Halls did not.

Kalasky said that in spring 2011,
“President Ruscio invited a commit-
tee to recommend a design plan for the
lobby that would honor George Wash-
ington’s philanthropy to W&L, connect
ﬁiture support to that tradition and create
a welcoming destination that reinforces
the centrality of Washington Hall to the
visitor and student experience.”

The lobby now features the Honored
Benefactors Wall, displaying the ap-

 

pellations of benefactors who have en-
dowed the University with $l million or
more.

The typical classroom now has a re-
cessed screen, central air and /heating,
an overhead projector and Wi-Fi access.
Throughout the facility, new install-
ments include handicapped—accessible
toilets, elevators, fire alarms, automatic
door openers and a sprinkler system.
Faculty offices have been equipped with
storm windows, new furniture and larger
bookshelves.

What have been removed, however, are
window air conditioning units. In the
past, they had been so noisy that students
and faculty had had trouble hearing each
other.

“One of the points in our strategic‘

plan,” said Kalasky, “is to provide an ed-
ucation for the 21 st century. We _want to
build out space that meets the program-
matic needs ofthe University.”

Renovation on Robinson and Tucker
Halls has not yet begun, but will likely
conclude in 2015.

Construction workers workon the statue of George Washington

atop Washington Hall.

 

 

JAN15 

2 * THE RING-TUlV| PHI -

M on DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

 

Contact preps for Paul

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Former l2-term Congressman and
three-time Presidential Primary Candi-
date Ron Paul will deliver the ﬁrst speech

policies based on commodity-backed
currency.
He is known among both his colleagues

currence of current national issues such
as debt, privacy and freedom to the gov-
emment’s neglect to follow the U.S. Con-

Ron Paul will be speaking to W&L students in Lee Chapel on Tuesday. Doors open at 6 p.m. and seat-

ing is limited.

of his 2013 College Tour on Tuesday in
Lee Chapel. The event is sponsored by
Contact Committee, the Washington and
Lee University Politics Department and
W&L College Republicans.

There will be a table in the Elrod Coin-
mons on Monday and Tuesday from l0
a.m. to 2 p.m. with information about the
event, free Contact Committee gear and a
chance to win free VIP seating.

Congressman Ron Paul of Texas enjoys
a national reputation as the premier ad-

vocate for liberty in politics today. Paul ‘

is the leading spokesman for limited con-
stitutional government, low taxes, free
markets, and a return to sound monetary

in Congress and his constituents for his
consistent voting record in the House
of Representatives: Paul never votes for
legislation unless the proposed measure
is expressly authorized by the U.S. Con-
stitution. In the words of former Trea-
sury Secretary William Simon, Paul is the
“one exception to the Gang of 535” on
Capitol Hill.

At the podium, Paul is known to de-
liver a candid look at the dysfunctional
American political system. Using anec-
dotes from his 23 years in Congress, he
highlights the need for a limited govern-
ment and more personal liberties. Paul
captivates audiences by relating the oc-

stitution.

Despite the less than ideal condition
of the country, Paul is an optimist. His
unwavering passion leaves audiences
motivated to speak out, wake up and let
politicians know what they want. A

Doors open at 6 p.m. and the event is
free and open to the public. Seating is
limited.

Applications pour in

By Hamlet Fort
s TA F F w R lT E R

The Washington and Lee Admissions
Ofﬁce witnessed a 5% increase in Early
Decision I applicants from 20l 1, ac-
cording to a press release from the W&L
News and Media Ofﬁce.

Admissions accepted 192 students out
of 464 applicants, an approximate ad-
missions rate of 41 percent. The total
number of applicants increased from
443 applicants in 201 l_.

The Early Decision program is bind-
ing, and the application deadline of Nov.
15 was the first oftwo ED deadlines for
this admissions cycle. The second dead-

3 line was Jan. 1, the same deadline for ap-

..‘..

plications for Regular Decision and the
Johnson Scholarship.

Prospective students admitted through
Early Decision will withdraw all other
applications to other colleges and uni-
versities. The Early Decision 11 program
is also binding, and more applicants
for each incoming class are applying
through Early Decision.

The academic strength of the ED stu-
dents of 2017 is as strong as any W&L
has seen, according to the press release.
The general academic proﬁle of accept-
ed students including class rank and SAT
and ACT scores are top-quality.

 

v

According to the Admissions Office
and the press release, the students ac-
cepted for the Class of 2017 through
Early Decision are among the most di-
verse group of students ever accepted.
Nearly 20% of the admitted students
are of American minorities, Pell Grant
recipients or ﬁrst-generation college stu-
dents,raccording to the Communications
Ofﬁce’s release.

Early”Decision ll applicants will be in-
formed of their decisions later this term,
and Regular Decision applicants will
ﬁnd out their fate around Apr. 1.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

STAFF WRITER

Mercury levels doubled

The latest statistics from the UN report that the mercury level in the earth’s
oceans has doubled in the past 100 years. Coal plants and small-scale gold min-
ing are increasing spread and thus people’s exposure to the toxin. Serious health
concerns have led officials in Geneva to try and create an international treaty that
will cut mercury levels in the ocean.

Poverty gap grows between southern and
northern Europe .

The economic crisis in Europe has created a severe poverty gap between
southern and northern Europe, according to the EU. Jerez, a city in southern
Spain, is now the most indebted city in the country, owing at least $6000 for ev-
ery inhabitant. Government public services have been withdrawn, encouraging
charities to aid the poor in order to survive.

Bus accident devastates in Bolivia

A passenger bus overturned on a major highway in Bolivia early Saturday.
Eight people were pronounced dead and at least 36 others were injured. The
injured were taken to a local hospital for treatment. Authorities are waiting for
more information on the state of other victims.

Raids in Kenya continue

Thursday marked another in the series of raids in Kenya’s Tana River delta
region. Ten were reported dead and another two wounded. This raid happened
only a day after another raid in a nearby village left nine people dead. These are
the latest attacks in an area that has been experiencing ongoing violence since
August between farmers and their pastoral neighbors.

Bolivia in anti-narcotic convention

Bolivia was readmitted to the UN’s anti-narcotics convention on Saturday
after it pulled out over a year ago. The country’s condition for its return was the
decriminalization of the coca leaf. The coca leaf, an ingredient in the making of
cocaine, was outlawed by the 196] UN convention along with other narcotics.
However, Bolivians, who have been chewing the raw leaf for centuries, argue
that the cocoa plant has health beneﬁts.

French president pushes for Gay marriage

The French president, Francois Hollande, has been pushing legislation to le-
galize gay marriage and adoption and seems to have a Parliamentary majority
in his favor. However, the ﬁrst mass demonstration in Paris since he took ofﬁce
occurred on Sunday protesting the bills. Thousands of Parisians organized in a
demonstration they are calling “pro-marriage rather than particularly anti-gay.”

I
India protests sexual assautt
Mass protests in India are pleading for police to be more active in ﬁghting
against growing rates of sexual assault in thecountry. Those in charge seem to
be listening as six men have already been arrested for the gang rape of a woman

on Friday. The attack was very similar to the Dec. 16 attack that sparked all of '

the protests.

Taliban suspected in Pakistan attacks

An attack near Dosali village in Pakistan took place early Sunday morning.
A'roadside bomb hit a military convoy, demolishing two vehicles and damaging
one other. The most recent report counted at least 17 soldiers dead and at least
another 22 wounded. Although the attackers have not been conﬁrmed, ofﬁcials
suspect the bomb was the work of the Taliban.

By Hannah Howard

 

 

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

  
 

  

. \

Spring term gets quirky;

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

The University Registrar Ofﬁce re-
leased its ﬁnal list of course offerings
for the spring term over winter break,
featuring a variety of new and previ-
ously popular courses.

New courses have been added in
multiple departments, including sci-
ence and politics. English courses
like Superheroes and sciences cours-
es like Disorder & Chaos remain as
spring term staples.

In the science department, a new
class called CS1: W&L, an inter-
disciplinary course of biology and
chemistry that will be co-taught by
Assistant Professor of Biology Fiona
Watson and Associate Professor of
Chemistry Fred LaRiviere.

According to wlu.edu, the course is
an introduction to forensic science,
a ﬁeld that applies science to the
criminal justice system. The course
will require students to analyze trace
physical evidence, such as glass and
ﬁber, and biological evidence like
hair and blood.

The purpose of the laboratory is
to “analyze collected crime scene
samples and to utilize some of the
commonly-used forensic techniques
such as microscopy, chromatogra-
phy, and spectroscopy,” according
to the course description. CSI: W&L
fulﬁlls the science laboratory FDR
and is suited for non-science majors
in all grade levels.

Among the available politics cours-
es, Topics in Public Policy is a course
that is consistently offered, but fre-
quently changes subject matter. This
year, Associate Professor of Politics
Rebecca Harris will be lecturing
about food policy.

Harris said that she developed the
topic following the recent drought.
“It put a renewed interest in the price
of food, modern farming and food in-
dustry practices, and believe it or not,

food policy is almost never discussed
in political science considerations of
public policy,” she said.

According to Harris, students will
participate in several ﬁeld trips to lo-
cal livestock auctions, vegetable auc-
tions, feed mills and large production
farms, and will then analyze the ex-
perience based on content learned in
class.

“Another part of the course will
focus on food industry politics, with
a ﬁeld trip to the largest supplier
of non-grocery food, Sysco Corp,
as well as considerations of school
lunches and the health food indus-
try,” Harris added.

Food Policy does not have any pre-
requisites and fulﬁlls one of the so-
cial science requirements.

Certain spring term courses are
popular each year, especially Su-
perheroes, an English course taught
by Visiting Assistant Professor of
English Mr. Chris Gavaler, who at-
tributes the course’s initial popularity
to its name.

According to Gavaler, the idea for
the course was suggested by a group
of W&L students in the honors pro-
gram. Gavaler was immediately
interested as someone who loved
reading comic books in his youth and
with his children today.

“While on the surface superheroes
seem like a particularly silly looking
top layer of pop culture nonsense, if
you dig just a little, the genre reﬂects
some of the most important political
and cultural issues of the 20th cen-
tury,” Gavaler said.

According to Gavaler, the course
focuses on the development of the su-
perhero character, beginning in 1938
through present day. Students will
study literary texts and write their
own creative works. This course sat-
isﬁes the literature FDR and is only

open to those who have completed
the WRIT 100 requirement.

Like CS1: W&L, another spring
term course in chemistry is geared
toward non-science major students.
Disorder & Chaos, which is taught
by Professor of Chemistry Steven
Desjardins and Professor.of Chem-
istry and Supervisor of Labs Andrea
Abry, has been taught at W&L for
more than 20 years. In that time, en-
rollment has jumped from 15 to 100
students, but since adding the labora-
tory section, the course maintains a
group of about 36 students.

In the course, students use the cha-
os theory and mathematics to predict
future behavior of complicated sys-
tems like the stock market and the
weather, according to Desjardins.

“Everything, physical or social,
changes with time,” said Desjardins.
“If we understand how things change
with time, we can make predictions
about the future. Some things we un-
derstand pretty well, like the trajec-
tory of a baseball. Other things, like
the stock market, are much harder to
understand and predict,” he added.

Disorder & Chaos satisﬁes the sci-
ence laboratory FDR and is open to
all levels. A

Course registration for
spring term begins Jan.
29 for seniors, followed
by first-year students
Jan. 30, juniors Jan. 3]

and sophomores Feb. 1.

Founrs’ Day

Convocation Adjusted  

C'ass5°“°d"'°  

Adjusted  [Ugr)

 

    

Founders’ Day Convocation - Friday, January 18, 2013

Convocation held 11:45am—1:U0pm

V Normal class times
8:0Uam—8:S5am .
8:00am-10f0Oam
8:35am—10:00am
9:05am-10:00am
10:10am-11:05am
11:15am-12:10pm
12:20pm-1:15pm
1:2Spm—2:20pm ‘
1:2Sprn—4:30pm
2:30pm—3:25pm
2:30pm-3:55pm
2:30pm-4:30pm
3:00pm-4:25pm
3:3Spm—4:30prn
4:40pm-5:35pm

Adjusted Class Time
8:00am-8:45am
8:00am-9:40am
8:3Sam—9:25am
8:5Sam—9:4Dam
9:50am-10:35am
1U:4Sam—11:30am

, 1:10pm—1:S5pm

2:05pm-2:50pm
2:OSpm—4:30pni
3:0Opm—3:45pIn
3:00pm-3:50pm
3:00prn—4:4IJpm
3:05pm-3:55pm
3:55pm-4:40pm
4:S0pm—5:35pn1

Laboratories and Studio classes

8:00am? 12:10pm
8:35am-11:40am
1:25pm-4:30pm
1:25pm-5:35prn

8:00am-11:30am
8:35am-11:30am
2:05pm-4:30pm
2:05pm—S:35pm

 

 

 

 
 

Congratulations to everyone
on a snccessfulrecrnitment

tﬁis year!

Jlﬁalta Delta Bi (ﬂID Bi) - 34

Cfti Omega (Clti O) — 34

4335
cm:
"2

Kappa Jiigofia Tfteta (Tﬁeta) - 34

Kappa Kappa gamma (Kappa) — 34

  

Beta Tlteta Bi (Beta) — 18
Cfti :Psi - 6

Kappa ﬂigolia Order (KJZI) — 10
Kappa Sigma (Kappa Sig) - 7
Lamlida Clii Jéllplia (Lambda) — 14
Blii gamma Delta (fiji) — 8

Tlii Delta Tlteta (Bfti Delt) - 28 ,

"‘ The Bat did not hear from Kappa Delta, Tﬁi ‘Psi, or SAB
‘ 7

Bi Kappa ﬂllpfta (BiKJ4l) — 12

A

‘S

  Sororities
Kappa Delta (KD)*

A fraternities
Blti Kappa Psi (Blii Bsi) — 25*

directly Eiy tlie time we went to print

7

Bi Beta Phi (Bi Bfii) - 36

 

Pi Kappa Blii(?i Blii) — 18

Sigma Jilgofta Bpsilon (SﬂB)*
Sigma Clii — 16
Sigma Nu — 1o

Sigma Blii Bpsilon (Sig Bp) — 4

   
  
  
 
  
      
    

    

   

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

pinions

 

Shotty health practices

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

The map below shows the proportion of outpatient visits a health care providers for ﬂu—like illness. It does not

measure the extent of geographic spread of flu within a star

Minimal Low

 

You’ve probably heard the excuses.
People say that they don’t want to get
vaccinated for any number of reasons—
vaccines arenothing but a recurring
source of revenue for pharmaceutical
companies, getting a vaccine one day
will actually make you sick two days
later, people would rather take their
chances of getting the ﬂu than risk one
ofthe vaccine’s side-effects.... Then, of
course, there’s good old laziness. One

 Moderate

I High

way or another, people ﬁnd a way each
year to justify not getting a ﬂu vaccine.

It is no secret that the ﬂu is going
around. This time of year is usually host
to a peak in ﬂu activity.

So stop for a minute and think: how
many hands did you shake last week?
Considering that it was recruitment
week, one of the coziest weeks of the
year~—what with everyone cramming
into sorority and fraternity houses for

For more information. see the CDC's Fen‘-./éevt.-' travzker.

BEE

NJ

DE

hours at a time—the answer is probably
a lot. And of those whose hands you
shook, how many looked a bit...under
the weather? '

Given that last week was a blur of .

late nights, loud singing, and enthusias-
tic cheering, it was easy to chalk up the
fatigue, hoarse voices, and achy muscles
to the price you pay for having a fun time
during recruitment. However, according
to Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Director of the

National Institute of Allergy and Infec-
tious Diseases at the National Institute
of Health, “We are into what would clas-
sically be described as a ﬂu epidemic.”

By this point, 47 states have reported
widespread ﬂu activity. 3,710 hospital-
izations have occurred as a result. Va.
health officials have stated that the last
time the ﬂu attacked the population like
this was nearly a decade ago—it has
reached the “widespread” stage in Va.,
the’ highest of ﬁve levels of ﬂu activity.
The scariest part: according to Fauci,
we’re only 6 weeks into a 12 week ﬂu
cycle.

“I’ve been in infection control 26
years and I’ve never seen it this busy. It
ranks up there with the busiest I’ve ever
seen a ﬂu season,” says Carolyn Palmer,
Infection Prevention Control Coordina-
tor for Augusta Health in Fishersville,
Va. On Saturday, New York State de-
clared a public health emergency, step-
ping on state law in order to allow phar-
macists to administer vaccinations to
anyone between 6 months and I8 years
of age. Massachusetts has experienced
18 ﬂu-related deaths already this sea-
son, and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino

.also declared a public health emergency,

stating last Wednesday that “This is the
worst ﬂu season we’ve seen since 2009,
and people should take the threat of ﬂu
seriously.” Especially since, on average,
25,000 people will die of the ﬂu every
year in the United States.

15 states are reporting extraordinarily
high levels of the ﬂu. Among these are

New York, Utah, Minnesota, Texas, and
Virginia.

And yet people still have avoided
getting vaccinated. Perhaps what they
don’t understand is that choosing to
forego that one little shot is essentially a
selﬁsh move. The ﬂu can be contagious
to anyone standing within six feet of an
infected person—that means that those
who choose to risk getting the ﬂu by
refusing vaccination are putting every-
one with whom they come in contact at
risk, including infants younger than six
months, the elderly, those who‘are aller-
gic to vaccination, and those for whom
the vaccination may simply have not
worked. Especially in the cases of babies
and the elderly, whose immune systems

are not on par with people in their prime, ‘

this sort of selﬁshness on the part of one
person could be fatal.

The CDC advises that everyone 6
months and older should get an annual
ﬂu vaccine.

According to Dr. Thomas A. Farley,
“It’s a bad year. We’ve got lots of ﬂu,
it’s mainly type AH3N2, which tends
to be a little more severe. So we’re see-
ing plenty of cases of ﬂu and plenty of
people sick with ‘ﬂu. Our message for
any people who are listening to this is
it’s still not too late to get your ﬂu shot.”

Flu vaccinations are available to
W&L students at the Student Health
Center. Walk—ins are welcome at any
hour of the day or night, and the charge
of $20 can be swiped home.

Tearin

By Leah Gose
STAFF wmren

“Rush is over!” said the W&L mass-
es. The world can ﬁnally return to nor-
mal- no more awkward “No Contact"
rules. The Speaking Tradition reigns
again. But even ifa week’s worth of or-
ganized social systematizing is over, the
pinnacle pride ofGreek Life is the Satur-
day night after Recruitment Week.

At the conclusion of Recruitment

nup-

Week, the entire campus exhales a
breath of relief. No longer are first-year
students at risk of having petty mistakes
destroy their chances at acceptance in
the Greek System. With the acceptance
of a bid (offer to join a fraternity or so-
rority organization), the Greek world
provides almost immediate protection
from gossip-fueled ostracizing. So with

THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITER

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
HAMLET FORT
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
PAT MCCARRON
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEY RUSSELL
JOSH WHITE

AUBRI CHARNIGO

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING—TUM PHI
to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting
the Washington and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news
affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable. Through
our reporting, we aspire to spark discussions that lead to
discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING~TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a member
of The Media Board, which can be reached at mediaboard@
w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI

welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and advertising do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel
and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
' LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

limited social repercussions left post-
Bid Night, what do you think that leads
to ‘come Saturday?

You guessed right- the entire campus
takes a break from making responsible
decisions. Tear Night is named in part
because the men “tear” up bids they
chose to not take from other fraterni-
ties and celebrate with their new broth-
ers. Sororities share in the festivities
by having “Celebration Parties” with

we

Greekstyle

fraternities. At the same time, I could
also say that Tear Night brings with it
crying, tears, and emotional outbursts
from those who did not have a success-
ful recruitment week (or didn’t have the
experience they truly wanted).

2013’s Tear Night was a hot mess in
part because it was about 55 degrees and
because this campus skimps on noth-
ing- especially not on memorable par-
tying opportunities. The iPhones were

out and Facebook was blowing up with
pictures. The Health Center, well aware
of what happens, had nurses and wheel-
chairs waiting at the door. Lexington
sounded like a giant basement, with
music booming from almost all frater-
nity and off-campus houses. The Divi-
sion of Student Affairs even provided a
“Midnight Breakfast” in Evans Dining
Hall_- a common stop for students that
night and a magical place to people-
watch (many eggs were consumed with-
out the normally necessary fork). Even
with the opportunities for unsafe con-
ditions, our campus takes pride in our
growing ability to make Tear Night safer
and fun. The Student Health Center de-
serves a hug and paid vacation. I’m not
even certain how the employees who
worked the Midnight Breakfast could
stand watching what appeared to be like
the ﬁrst meal of the Donner Party post-
starvation. Speak and’ “l-in-4” provided
stickers (the best!) and cups to remind
students to make responsible decisions.

Were responsible decisions made?
Who knows? But I do know that Tear
Night will stand as a recurring event on
campus until the end of Greek Life. It
may not make the list for “most respon-
sible decision making” night, but like
streaking the Colonnade, it’s something
you have to do once.

That’s so cheap...

By Aubri Charnigo
GUEST WRITER

At the end of last semester, I ﬁnished
my exams, packed up my textbooks into
a big bag and dragged them to the buy-
back table in the Commons. As a senior,
I did not have high expectations of the
fortune I would make selling back my
books, but when I was consistently of-
fered one to two dollars for each book,
I was infuriated. Naturally, I did not
sell them back. Overall I was offered
a total of $13 for ﬁve books originally
purchased for $107.25. For some of my
books, I would only make back 8% of
the original cost, in spite of the fact that
my books were like new.

It is absurd that as students we keep
the book buyback companies in busi-
ness. We have the power to refuse to
accept such low prices and to sell the
books ourselves. If enough students
refused to sell back their textbooks for
such ridiculously low rates, we could
force the companies to buy them back
for more. I’m sure that the book they
wanted to buy from me for $1.25 would

' have been sold used in the bookstore for
over $10. By eliminating middlemen
and selling directly, students can beneﬁt

by determining themselves what their
books are worth. For example, I have
both bought and sold expensive sci-
ence textbooks through advertisements
over Campus Notices, throu ‘the new

    

of th semester. I have even borro d
textb ks from friends who wanted to
keep ‘book for grad school or MC
but di _n’t need it that semester. I
Th§ Facebook Textbook Exchange
is a ﬂood start to organizing a m_re
efﬁci t and fair way to buy and ski]
textb ks. The student body sho Id
conti e to organize and reﬁne a me -
od fo students to buy and sell to e h
other ecause the students on both e s
of these transactions beneﬁt. We are 1-
ready paying thousands of _dollars to o
to school and hundreds of dollars for
textbooks. The least we can do to save

some money and help ourselves and
each other is to not give our business to
the book buyback companies. We de-
serve better than that.

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

   

 

 

 

   

MONDAY, JANUARY 14,2013 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

a rts&| ife
Top ten signs it’s Tear Night

. By Christian Kennedy
STAFF WRITER

 

3. Breaking glass things

1- L05ing eXP‘5“5lVe Clothing v 2 Dancing like a crazed maniac l
  ~ sw>eia— PKA ca L-E

 QLASS‘

   

 

   
   

 

A ' 1:5: FQU\N1>, Rerumxl

'4. Eating obnoxious amounts of breakfast at midnight

is THE NAFFL

    

 

mi

    
   
  
         
   
      
     

The Career Development Center
cordially invites students to an

ETIQUETTE DINNER A

9. Creative interpretations of what a bathroom is

.. 7!!‘
.   -®w£‘%%l{l‘3’-' MW‘ - -~

r‘ g  0
Cartoons by Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

  

Register in person at the
Career Development Center
January 14th-18th A
$15 fee includes dinner and
instructional materials.

i Space is limited. Register early.

Tuesday, January 22, 2013
. 5:30-8:00 p.m.
Sheridan Livery Inn

*Registration now open*

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI-

arts&lif

Byioshvvhne
STAFF WRITER

Winter for the recreational outdoor
enthusiast can be a challenging time
of year. Finding activities to do in the
winter may seem diflicult if you don‘t
like battling the elements, but the fact
is there are many different but equally
enjoyable activities available for the
casual and experienced alike. One op-
tion available year-round is stargazing,
which is exactly what I set out to do this
last Wednesday.

Despite a cloudy day, the skies
cleared up to reveal the beautiful night
sky we are used to here in rural Lexing-
ton. l trekked to a far corner ofcampus
to minimize the impact ofunnatural light
on my view. Regardless of my efforts,
good views were hard won. Fortunately,
there are many places nearby campus
that would provide much better views.

On this very average night. however.
we were able to see the planet Jupiter,
as well as ()rion‘s Belt and the brightest
star in the sky, Sirius, the Dog Star.

Stargazing is an easy and fun way to
spend a night ifyou are looking to get in
touch with Mother Nature: trust me, she
misses you in the winter when you hide
inside too much. lt’s not uncommon to
see a few shooting stars during your trip.
as well.

Jan. ll was the new moon, which is

Star night, star b

the best time to view stars, due to the
minimal light. The next full moon will
be .Ian. 28, so if you are interested in
connecting with your inner werewolf,
that evening would be a good time to go.

The equipment for stargazing is very
minimal. I would recommend bringing
either some blankets or a sleeping bag
so you can lie down comfortably. Either
coffee or hot chocolate would be good
too, as the nights can get cold during this
time ofyear. It wouldn’t be a bad idea to
bring a date either. as stargazing can be
quite romantic. - _

There are also stargazing apps you
can download on your il’hone or il’ad
that use the gyroscope inside the device
to help you tind constellations. planets,
and other neat objects in the sky. So
pack up your stuff and head outside on
the next clear night, and prove that in-
element weather is no excuse to stay in-
doors.

MON DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

right: it’s your tu rn

Stargazing is an easy and fun way to spend a night

ifyou are looking to get in touch with Mother Na-

ture; trust me, she misses you in the winter when you

hide inside too mz./ch.

Heads-up for O-Week

By Caroline Hamp
3 TA F F w R IT E R

Get ready for O-Week 2013! Wait...
already? Yes, you heard correctly. The
First-Year Orientation Committee
(FYOC) is on the tip of their toes, pre-
paring. to dive head first into planning
the events for Orientation Week, com-
ing soon in September 2013.

FYOC is in charge of everything re-
lated to O-Week, from the Adviser Din-
ner to SODALIS to Activities Fairs to
informational meetings; in short, they
create a jam-packed schedule for the
ﬁrst-year’s very first week on campus.

The main goal of O-Week is to facili-
tate a great first experience and impres-
sion of Washington and Lee. Everyone
is aware of the highly-anticipated ex-
citement that is O-Week. It is all fun
and games, thanks to the mid-week start
date for classes. We all have our favor-
ite memories, typically sponsored by
the fratemities and their evening events.
But the fun doesn’t end_therel Plenty of
people consider their favorite memories
to be meeting their University Big or at-
tending the crazy carnival afterwards.

The week also includes a ton of edu-
cational events, aimed to be as exciting,
yet still helpful, as possible. These ﬁve
days are crammed full of informational

meetings and beneﬁcial resources. It is
a time ofleaming and acclimation as the
ﬁrst-years learn what college life will
entail for the next four /years.

FYOC has a lot on its plate in the up-
coming months. The biggest event for
O-Week 2012 was the Casino Night in
Elrod Commons, which featured prizes,
a mini bar, game tables, and incredible
decorations. It was expanded signiﬁ-
cantly from previous years, and grew to
encompass various rooms and areas in
the Commons.

The most recent O-Week also saw
some major changes in the event sched-
ule, primarily with the Off-Campus Per-
spectives Tour
of Lexington,
which featured
stops at various
sights and re-
sources offered
by the school,
as well as the
Big Brother/
Big Sister Car-
nival.

FYOC Gen-
eral Chair Joni
Deutsch ‘l4

 BY.» pi

s,TuDENTsi.AGA1NsT A
."fROCKBRIDGE. AREA  

~ ..fH_UNGER (SARAH)

 {fig-:OOiil_3.M_ — 9:30 PM.
;   FRIDAY,’ JANUARY 25 .

   AT 730

RM.

  i”iTlCK‘ETSAAVAlLABLtl§
EOR $1oiN COMMONS
  7.1/21 91/25, AND AT  

EVENT.  

*IF sTuDENTswOuLD

II I
  I

:15
I  / ,
lag?‘

lﬁlﬂ ‘
‘AIL
RpllII«
llﬁl
lwl
III
II!
II!
m

I5
I Ii
“, I I5
W is’

LIKE To ENTER A TEAM.
CONTACT PERRY GIVEN
AT GlVENS13@l\/IAILWLU.

EDU.

\

intends to pursue the growth of these
events. “We plan on expanding the Off-
Campus Tour and the Carnival by mak-
ing them bigger and attracting more
people,” explained Deutsch. She hopes
that they will be fun for both ﬁrst-years
and upperclassmen alike.

FYOC also collected feedback from
members of the Class of 2016 after this
previous O-Week, in hopes of mak-
ing changes and improvements. Said
Deutsch, “We are excited to invite in
a new class with events they will be
stoked for!”

Want to help make O-Week 2013 the
best yet? Well, now you can! FYOC is releasing
applications to join the Committee this week,
and they will be due at the end of January.
Questions and concerns should be directed to Joni
Deutsch '14 at deutschj14@mail.wlu.edu, or Dean
Rodocker at jrodocker@w|u.edu.

I Ifjllglnlulnu
l,5J!.t!-E lllilllll
  ﬂung-rsunnnu.

.1311:
m.“umn,,
ml.‘~:y*
Ilun-

”WIIIllll
ﬂlllll
IIIIIII
JIIIIE
IIIIIE

‘lﬂlll
.llll
nuns,

._..§.>.._»

Take a spin with Katie Gahan:
instructor gives exercise a twist

By Lindsey Burke '
STA FF WRITER

At a typical spin class with instructor
Katie Gahan, students never experience
a dull moment. With high intensity and
loud music, this class is full of energy.

“I always ask for music suggestions or
new moves they would like to try,” said
Gahan. “It works out great because I love
trying new music, and I want to be sure
the participants are getting the workout
that they want and hearing the music that
they want.”

This Southern Virginia University
graduate became “addicted” to cycling
after she found classes to be her perfect
stress release. Since then, she has been
leading group exercise at Washington
and Lee for the past two years. Now, she
teaches Cycling, Core, Sports Circuit,
and Body Attack classes.

According to Gahan, Body Attack is
a high cardio class that combines endur-
ance and strength. Sports Circuit mixes
cardio with weight training, and Core fo-
cuses on increasing core strength. How-
ever, for Gahan, spinning has remained
her favorite.

“Cycling is a fast paced indoor cycling
class full of great music, and I try to do
moves that are outside of just road biking
to keep people engaged and having fun,”

X-D‘?

said Gahan. “It comes really naturally
to me and I don’t have to think about it
while I am teaching.”

As one of the school’s younger in-
structors, Gahan feels like she can con-
nect with students with her music and
energy. She makes it a personal goal to
keep her students excited with motiva-
tional tools. With her use of loud, upbeat
music and her motivational references to
delicious foods throughout the workout,
her classes never involve just “sitting on
a stationary bike.”

“When you get to envision cheese-
cake, shoes, bread sticks or Brad Pitt at
the [top of the hill], it makes it a little
easier,” she said.

Gahan’s students are just as enthusias-
tic about her spin classes as she is about
teaching them. “During the treacherous
last 20 minutes of spin class, I am usu-
ally dying, but Katie is so positive and
encouraging,” said senior Kerry Cotter.
“I always get a fantastic wokout from her
class!"

Katie Gahan teaches spin on Tuesday
and Thursday evenings, and Sports Cir-
cuit classes Thursday evenings.

r.\n 1

Ltpl11.~L
llllllll

  

5 C

 

 

 

M o N DAY, JANUARY 14, 2013

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

    

sports

Men’s XC Coach John Tucker retiring  

By Pat Mccarron
STAFF WRITER

It seems that nothing can keep men’s
cross country coach John Tucker away‘
from what he loves—not even retire-
ment.

Washington and Lee’s athletic depart-
ment announced the retirement of Coach
Tucker late last year. it will be executed
in the form of a phased retirement, with
Coach Tucker remaining at_ W&L for
up to an additional four years teaching
physical education.

“What a privilege it has been these
past 24 years, working with such out-
standing students, athletes and col-
leagues in such a beautiful place,” said
Tucker. “it truly has been the best years
of my life.”

Although he has relieved himself
of coaching duties, Coach Tucker still
hopes to keep his connection alive with
the University.

Coach Tucker’s hopeto maintain his
connection to W&L resembles his yearn-
ing to continue his success in track and
ﬁeld, long after his collegiate career.

As a track athlete at W&L, Coach
Tucker earned many accolades: as a
four-year track letterrnan and a two-
year captain, Coach Tucker led two of
his teams to ODAC championships and
school-record setting relay teams in
1976 and 1977. It was also during these
years that he was awarded the Forest
Fletcher Trophy for overall excellence
and sportsmanship his last two years.

Coach Tucker, however, would not
hang up his spikes just yet. He remained

an active participant in various track and
ﬁeld competitions until age 50, winning
local, state and regional competitions.
Some of Coach Tucker’s most crown-
ing achievements occurred at the USA
Track & Field national competitions,
where he has won All—American honors
in ﬁve events. Coach Tucker took home
pentathlon gold in 2000 when competing
in the 50-54 age group at the USA Track
and Field National Championships.

Coach Tucker’s 24-year reign as
men’s cross country head coach has
brought the team great success. W&L
has won league championships in cross-
country in seven of these years, includ-
ing four straight titles from 2004-2007.
Coach Tucker won NCAA South Region
Coach of the Year in 1995 for bringing
W&L’s cross-country team to the NCAA
Division lll championships, and has
won ODAC coach of the year honors six
times.

it seems that Coach Tucker’s phased
retirement is appropriate. After all, he
never really retired from being an ath-

lete, and with physical education teach- A

ing in his future, Coach Tucker will also
be slow to relinquish active ties with
W&L.

While it was his athletic ability and
love for the sport that kept Coach Tucker
on the track for so many years, it is his
love for W&L that will keep him here for
at least a few more years, even after his
announced retirement.

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s swim

Bridgewater by a score of 115-84.

team won their home meet on Saturday against

The Generals had six ﬁrst place ﬁnishes, two
by junior Lauren Kasoff. Kasoff ﬁnished ﬁrst in
the 200-yard freestyle with a time of2:01 .65 and
the 100-yard backstroke, ﬁnishing in 1:03.37.

Other ﬁrst place winners were senior Colleen .
Moore in the l,000~yard freestyle, senior Izzy 
Brassﬁeld in the 50-yard freestyle, and ﬁrst-year
Meredith Murphy in the 200 yard individual .
medley. The 400-yard medley team consisting l7
of ﬁrst-years Stephanie Foster and Sara Schaffer,
sophomore Caroline Hamp and Brassﬁeld also

came in ﬁrst with a time of4: 12.56.

_ Sophomore Sydney Gay, Hamp, and ﬁrst-
year Emma Swabb also had strong individual
performances with several of the second place

ﬁnishes of the day.

The men’s and women’s teams will return to
the pool on Saturday when they will be taking on

Marymount and Catholic at home.

 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  

   

    eralmi the pool

 

..  V X.

 

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF warren

in its inaugural year, the Men’s Vol-
leyball Club has made quite an entrance
into Washington and Lee sports. With
goals of fostering camaraderie, exposing
the game to all skill levels and excelling
in a competitive conference, “the MVC is
surpassing others’ and my own expecta-
tions”, said Andrew McCaffery, creator
and President ofthe club.

First-year McCaffery explained that
while the MVC is a member of the Na-
tional Collegiate Volleyball Federation, it
participates in the Division ll-South re-
gion of the Eastern lntercollegiate Volley-
ball Association. The MVC has already
faced a number of league competitors
in pre-season scrimmages including the
University of Virginia and Virginia Tech.
The president noted how driven he and
the team is to gain experience from more
established programs. The team now
looks forward to their ﬁrst matches of the
regular season at the Eastern Carolina In-
vitation Tournament in early February.

While the MVC is rather competitive,
McCaffery sought to bring volleyball as
an enjoyable extracurricular to the men
of W&L. Since he established the club
through development plans and meetings
with coaches and athletic directors, the

Promising start for Men’ Vlciall 

entirely student-run program has yielded
a lot of interest. The team consists of
roughly twenty-ﬁve students of all skill-
levels. A council of ﬁve players handles
everything from their budget to recruit-
ment. McCaffery commented that this
varied membership “allows for mutual
coaching and improvement and presents
students with opportunities in peer-lead-
ership and running a business.” Not only
do participants hone their digging, setting
and spiking skills—or practice them for
the ﬁrst time— but the club also gives
men a chance to lead and encourage their
teammates. Anyone interested in joining
the club should contact MVC ofﬁcer Jack
Melhom at melhomj 1 6@mai1.wlu.edu.

(let Unlc

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

ashcd at BLB‘...

lac-xin,<_-;ton’s ()nI_\' ;‘Ii(‘l'l)l)l‘(‘\\'(‘l’)'!

 

  

Noing
Pints & Cask Ale

Bring the Folks this Weekend
2 year Anniversary Party: Nov. 30 & Dec. 1

l3rc“'cry and 'I‘ap lhunn
123 S. Randolph St, Lexington, VA
540—4S8—0 1 46
Tap Room Hours:
Wed 4:30—7 p.m.
Fri 3:00-7:30 p.m.
Sat 2-5 p.m.

and as needed... check our website...
www.b|uelabbrewing.com
facebook: Blue Lab Brewing Co., LLC

 

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI - MONDAY,.lANUARY 14,2013

 

S P 0 rts

in the numbers   Men’s Bballfalls short in OT at EMU  

The Generals forced overtime after com-
ing back from a 12-point deﬁcit with 7:10 left
in the game, but fell 91-84 to Eastern Men-
nonite on Wednesday night.

EMU held a 59-47 lead with 7:10 left, but
Washington and Lee used a 7-0 run including
a three-pointer from ﬁrst-year forward An-
drew Franz to reduce the lead to 59-54 with
5:47 remaining in the game.

The Royals fought back and pushed their
7 0 lead back to seven points at the 3:13 mark, but

The total number of W&L student-athletes that earned
scholar-athlete awards for the fall semester. The student-
athletes need a grade-point average of at least 3.50 to earn

« the award.

the Generals used a 5-0 run to make it a 67-
65 game with 2:28 left in regulation. Junior
forward Drew Kimberly hit a free throw and
ﬁrst-year guard Darren Douglas was fouled
on a three-point attempt following a Royal
turnover. Douglas hit one of the foul shots,
and Franz drilled a three-point shot to make it
a two-point game.

EMU went back up ﬁve points, but senior
guard Kelton Buchanan canned a three-point-
er with eight seconds left to send the game
into overtime. The Royals started with an 8-2
run capped by a dunk from their senior for-
ward.

I Kimberly led W&L with a career-high

20 points on 7-of-ll shooting from the ﬁoor
4 8 and 6—of-8 from the foul line. Junior guard
, Kevin Gill scored 14 points, while Franz got
1 1 points, six rebounds and three assists. Bu-
chanan tallied eight points, ﬁve rebounds and
ﬁve assists, and senior forward J.D. Ey added
eight points, seven rebounds, four assists, two
steals and two blocks.

a the

Dec. 19 ‘ vs. Bates @, Dayl:ona.Beach, Fla. _ 7

The number of yards of the completed hail mary from Bal-

-timore Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco to receiver Jacoby

Jones with just 31 seconds" left in regulation on Saturday.
The play forced the game with the Denver Broncos into over-
time. The Ravens won in double overtime on a 47-yard field

goal by Justin Tucker.

 

The total number of games each National Hockey League

team will play in a shortened season starting Saturday. A

seven day training camp began Sunday and the playoffs will

begin on” April 30. The lockout lasted for 113 days.

     

‘ 

Baytona Beach Shootout . 5 ‘

Dec. 21 5 vs. Mar‘/mount (Va.) @ Daytona Beach, Fla. 5 I ' G 7 w, 70-57 Final

 

 Daytona Beach Shootout
T M L Kenyon T 4’ . _ A . i , . - ._ »  W, 59-53
11:3;/p/ékgp//:335bf;:1tfni;r§;§;}t;l to  3 r.’§‘$3:::?.“;f.“:   2          .
   b. Jan. 5/ I  ‘ l i _ .,  68,67 > Final
—San Francisco 49ers uarterback Colln - V - ’ -' S ’ g - . ‘ ' 9 ' if
K38 (11. In a  gargeenon . (Courtesy of Generals Sports)
urday. Kaepemlck passed for 263 ’ ‘ ‘

yards and two touchdowns on his own
whlle rushln for a quarterback-record 181

yards. From PN.oom ViCk leads the Genﬂrs   . l

  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

By Bailey Russell .  V '
STAFF WRITER V 
"/ W0’ [Win ire)/J '50 £0 Wh9F€V€F .....E’Z.Z§i.‘i:Z’E1225Z§l’.fle§‘§f1l‘§7V7§2h.§315
    Wer  The Eastern Mennonite University lead contin-

ued to 14 points before the Generals closed the

questions directly, honestly and ?3f:2i"‘rLf;“;:‘ei‘;‘:§;‘:‘;flg]:"t::::kf° make “a

 
  

         

Candid/y_ That’s a][ [ Can Say_ ” . EM‘U'scor.ed theﬁrst six points after the -V ; 
intermission, increasingtheir lead to 39-23 en E 5.

_|_anQe Nmgtmng |n a text to the route to defeating W&L 69-43. A 

Associated Press on Saturday. There are Flrétﬁr tgnvtard Wfsfggl Vd'°'<b'fd £26

reports   n  be  f\::)at>C/l'l:(1l a czfeerﬂshicleireltfl religuneds (aliidetied : .
to  a  ofme oplng scandal In an career—high with l0gpoints. First-year forward A

 wlth  wlnfrey  Thursday‘ Shelbi Hendricks scored nine points on 4-of-5 4‘ I G

shooting from the floor, while sophomore guard ,3,
Annie Guaf and ﬁrst-year guard Paige Corvino ‘‘ "
each scored eight points.

“There’s always satisfaction in '

denying Michigan the No. 1 spot REAR

in the COUWFY-" Dec. 16 Southside Virginia c.c. w, 72-15 Final

— Ohlo State Buckeye Evan Ravenel after .
defeating Mlchlgan 56-53 on Sunday. ' '
The Wolverines ranked #2 In the country, ‘Di 1 _ 29 A 5 _ ‘ A T 1 ‘ . . ‘W’ 49.25 i:- I

were the last undefeated team in Dlvlslon l n 3‘ °‘”a"e°   e T ' T y   i e A ‘"3

basketball. Number 1 ranked Duke lost on T 4

Saturday.

Jan. 3 at Emory St Henry * W, 60-49 Final
Jan. 5 Lynchburg *7 7» _ : 4 H 2   B S L, 60-501 a Final   Q
ondeck 2 5 n -     .
Men’s Basketball atE&H7pm vs.Roanoke7pm _ V5-GU“f°ld2Pm
Women's Basketball v5_Rando|ph7pm 3tShenand°ah2pm
Women’s Swimming vsMarymount1pm
vs Catholic 1 pm
Men’s Swimming vsMarymount1pm
vs Catholic 1 pm
at McDaniel 11 am .

Wrestling ’

