’
‘ o

 

Opinions / pa'ge_5

* wawl: govur "swag" hat?
All it takesiis raising $206 for Up ‘1'il Dawn; just
sacrifice that Vinyard Vines polo you’ve been
meaning to pick up. The hat is way cooler anyway.

A&L / page 7

TH

   CWASHINGTONAND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS

SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 7

Keeping journalism on its toes

By Krysta Huber
5 TA F F w R I T E R

The Washington and Lee journalism
and mass communications department
completed its ﬁrst of three phases in the
reaccreditation process last week.

From Oct. 21 to Oct. 24, a groupof
reviewers met with students, faculty, and
administrators and observed and evalu-
ated the curriculum and daily operations
of the department, according to Depart-
ment Head Pamela Luecke.

The reaccreditation process occurs

' every six years and is run by outside

professionals and professors who volun-
teer their time to work as re-accreditors,
according to Luecke. After reviewing a

. self-report provided by W&L and spend-

ing several days within the department,
the re-accreditors construct a report that
calls for reaccreditation, non-accredi-
tation or provisional. The latter of the
three gives the department two years to
improve upon their weaknesses before
reevaluation.

“After the first stage during the fall
term, they leave a draft recommendation,
so it’s not final,” said Luecke. “Their
recommendation can be reversed at any
other stage and the remaining stages will
take place in March and May.”

Over 400 universities and colleges‘

teach journalism and mass communica-
tions across the country, but according
to Luecke, only some 110 are accredited.
Only about 15 of the accredited joumal-
ism programs exist at private universi-
ties, making W&L a unique institution.
According to Luecke, the distinction
of an accredited department is important
to students, parents and faculty because

to itsrcurriculum. Since the last time the
department was re-accredited, a major
change that occurred was the merge be-
tween the broadcast and print journalism
majors into a single journalism concen-
tration.

“In today’s multimedia world, you
can’t be a broadcast major and never
learn how to write a story,” said Luecke.
“You can’t say, ‘I never want to write for

“In today is multimedia world, you can ’t be a broadcast

major and never learn how to write a story. ”
PAMELA LUECKE, Journalism Department Head

it solidiﬁes the strength of the depart-
ment’s curriculum.

“Accreditation is a kind of external
validation that what we are teaching is
current, appropriate and of a high qual-
ity,” she said.

The department’s mission statement
emphasizes the need to teach students
to effectively communicate in today’s
society. As a result, the department
makes consistent changes and additions

a newspaper,’ or ‘I never want to touch
a camera’.”

This message of convergence and
an ever-changing media structure is
stressed to students not only by depart-
ment professors in the classroom, but by

a variety of media specialists who visit

W&L each term to talk about their roles‘

in the media industry.
Recently, New York Times media
columnist David Carr visited W&L as

a participant in the Ethics Institute, run
by the journalism and mass communica-
tions department at W&L.

Carr delivered a speech to students
in Lee Chapel and served as a co-mod-
erator for upperclassmen students in the
ethics course, in a two-day seminar of
real world examples of ethical debate,
according to Knight Professor of Ethics
Edward Wasserman.

As the ethics professor, Wasserman
is responsible for coordinating the guest
who visits during the Ethics Institute
each year.

“David Carr is one of the most in-
teresting, original and inﬂuential media
columnists out there right now,” said
Wasserman. “Having him on campus
enabled students to hear from somebody
who is monitoring the media scene very
broadly.”

Wasserman added that it is impor-
tant for students to learn from writers
like David Carr because it adds a fresh
perspective to the ways that students are
exposed to the current state of the media.

“I don’t think you can separate the
speaker from what we teach in the de-
partment of mass communications as a

whole,” said Wasserman. ‘‘It is a part of
it in the same way that required intem-
ships are — as a package of preparations
that we try to provide.”

First-year student Hendley Badcock
was among the journalism and mass
communications students to hear Carr
speak. She said that Carr made the dis-
tinction that the news industry isn’t
dwindling as so many critics and citizens
claim, but it is instead changing along-
side new technology.

Luecke explained that professionals
like Carr support the department’s effort
to keep its teaching as up—to-date as pos-
sible.

“It’s very important to our program
that our students are prepared for the
profession that they are going to enter,”
said Luecke. “As a faculty we all have
strong professional backgrounds, but
we have been teaching for a while, so
we need to make sure that our students
are aware of what the expectations are
in today’s profession and the profession
of tomorrow.”

Alums make one last Republican push

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

United States Congressmen Bob
Goodlatte and Joe Wilson addressed
Washington and Lee students, local
residents and Virginia Military Institute
cadets for the College Republican’s fall
term keynote address on Wednesday at
Lee Chapel. Both senators made speech-
es and conducted a question-and-answer
session during the event.

Goodlatte, W&L Law Class of I977,
and Wilson ’69, make up “two-thirds of
the W&L delegation” within the House
of Representatives, and have been serv-
ing within the house for 20 and ll years
respectively. Goodlatte was ﬁrst elected
to his position in 1992 for the sixth con-
gressional district in Virginia, which in-
cludes Rockbridge County, while Wilson

Congressman Joe Wilson stops for dinner and dessert at his W&L fraternity, Sigma Nu, before addressing students in Lee Chapel.

was ﬁrst elected in 2001 for the second
congressional district in South Carolina,
which includes the state capitol, Colum-
bia.

The address had begun with College
Republicans President Lex Luther intro-
ducing each representative, starting with
Goodlatte who first spoke about his ex-
periences in Lexington.

After speaking highly of his time
at W&L, he began to speak about the
platform for reelection on Nov. 6. The
main points that the senator believes in
are limited government, less govern-
ment regulation and the traditional fam-

ily, which he said are almost identical to '

Representative Wilson’s beliefs.
Goodlatte then began to criticize

President Obama, saying that his poli-
cy and his presidency “simply hav_en’t
worked.” He also spoke about the need
for Republican reinforcement and the
need for Republican Candidate Mitt
Romney to be elected.

Goodlatte’s main point was to get rid
of the national debt. His main solution to
the debt problem is to create a balanced
budget amendment in the Constitution.
This amendment would force Congress
to submit a balanced budget every year
that would stop the debt from rising and
would allow the government to slowly
chip away at it.

Goodlatte also tried to appeal to the
students in the crowd by speaking about
the importance of making it easier for

them to get jobs after graduating college.
In order to create more jobs, Goodlatte
said that the government needs to focus
on the private sector when it comes to
certain regulated jobs in areas such as
energy production and infrastructure.»

Following Representative Goodlatte
was Wilson, who spoke mainly of the’
new Republican Party dominance within
the southern states, “from Virginia to
Texas.” He stated that all southern states
now have Republican majorities and
many have elected Republican gover-
nors as well.

Following the two speeches was a
question and answer session, which Lu-
ther said was “the best part of the event.”

The two representatives answered a

wide variety of questions, including Iran
as a national threat, the farm bill on the
floor, Wilson’s interruption of one of
President Obama’s speeches, EPA regu-
lation and the decision on Obamacare.

When asked about the Q&A session,
Luther said, “The questions from the
audience were thoughtful and the Con-
gressmen gave really pointed responses,
never skirting the issue.”

If you missed this term’s keynote ad-
dress, the College Republicans are plan-
ning to invite more speakers during win-
ter term for a second keynote address.
Luther said, “It is our hope to have a
keynote address next term that is just as
good for everyone that missed it.”

PHOTO COURTESY OF SIGMA NU FRATERNITY

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

W&L brings in the lnr Queen

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY‘ EDITOR

Students unsure about the internship
process are not alone. Lauren Berger, CEO
of IntemQueen.com, has the answers they
need.

Berger visited Washington and Lee
University last Tuesday to discuss how
college students can attain internships.

Students should start by participating

plying for an internship, students should
read an intemship’s listing in its entirety.
“You want to know what "you’re getting
into,” Berger said.

When a company requests a cov-
er letter and resume, students should send
them as soon as possible.

In preparation for an interview, “look at

in at least one professional experience, at
least one volunteer experience and, most
importantly, at least one on-campus expe-
rience.

Next, students should prepare their
cover letter and resume, tailoring these
documents for the internships they are ap-
plying for.

“The cover letter is not a novel,” Berg-
er said. “Don’t come across as too much
of a fan [of the employer].” Berger said
the cover letter should connect with the
employer in two to three paragraphs.

The cover letter should also clearly
state the dates that a student will be in the
city of the employer. “Employers aren’t
going to waste their time on a candidate
who might go to New York or Los Ange-
les,” Berger said.

The resume should consist of one page
of the most impressive and the most rel-
evant experiences to the internship.

Then, students should apply to at least

the company’s mission statement,” Berger
said. “Try to incorporate some of those
buzz words into the interview when you’re
talking.”

Students should dress professionally
for the interview. Women should wear
dark-colored business suits. Pencil skirts

are acceptable, too. In general, Berger
said, “there shouldn’t be anything looking
at you in the mirror that shouldn’t be.”
During the interview, students should
highlight not only what they did in pre-
vious experiences, but also how their on-
campus experiences relate to the compa-
nies they are applying to. “Put yourself
in the mind of the employer before your
interview,” Berger said. “What can you
saythat will impress them the most?”
Whatever a student’s experience,
“top it off in the interview,” Berger said.
“Explain what you’re doing so that they
understand how impressive your experi-
ence really is.”
After interviewing, students should

write a ‘Thank You’ note on a profession-
al-looking piece of stationery that has their
ﬁrst name and last name on it or purchase
and write on ‘Thank You’ cards sold at the
grocery store that are blank on the inside.

These ‘Thank You’ notes should be
hand-written. In the note, students should
write, “Thank you for the time for the
interview, and I look forward to hearing
from you,” said Berger. The interviewer
should receive the note in the mail two to
four days after the interview.

Once ‘at the internship, students should
network with fellow interns and use the
internship’s resources, some of which can-
not be found elsewhere.

While interning at a public relations
agency, for example, Berger would stay
after work for an hour or so each ‘day to
access the agency’s media guides, which
had valuable contact information for fu-
ture opportunities in the industry.

Interns should acquaint themselves
with company management. Berger, for
instance, emailed the heads of the net-
work, programming, publicity, and ﬁve
other departments at FOX Broadcasting
Company. In the emails, she “played the
student card,” Berger said. In these emails,
Berger asked to meet the executives for
advice on what to do after graduating col-
lege. ‘

Berger then met the executives for
about ﬁve minutes. At the end of these
ﬁve-minute meetings, she was told to
“stay in touch.”

“Those are the magic words,” Berger
said.

Students should stay in touch three
times a year. Every spring, summer and
fall, students should email all professional
contacts. The email, Berger said, should
basically read, “Hi, I’m going to Washing-
ton and Lee, I’m going into my, say, senior
year, I’m taking some interesting classes,
and I hope you’re well.”

In addition to staying in touch three
times a year, Berger emails professional
contacts to celebrate events in their per-
sonal and professional lives. She emails
them around the holidays and on their
birthdays and sets Google Alerts for them
to congratulate them on a promotion or to
wish them well after changing jobs.

At W&L, students should build profes-
sional contacts with W&L alumni and use
the Career Development Center every step
along the way to attaining an internship.

ten internships every semester. Before ap-

Nanceportation;-B

Airports-Medical Appointments

Long Distance Travel

Nancy Osella, Owner/Driver

Reservations: (540) 464-6162 - nancyosel|a@comcast.net ,

Providing personalized service to and from any airport, train station and out of town medi-

cal appointments. Door to door long distance travel; have a friend you want to visitat another
_ University? We can get you there or anywhere.

Specializing in group airport travel during W&L breaks, Nancy pairs riders together, or you
can get a group together and earn referral dollars. When you return from break your car will be
waiting for you at the airport, no need to stand in line and order a car.

Parent’s Weekend Special, book Thanksgiving travel by Wed. Nov. 7 and receive 10% off

regular pricing.

Nanceportation Car Service, LLC

Certiﬁcate #222
Nancy Osella owner/driver

Reservations: home ofﬁce # (540) 464-6162 nancyosella@comcast.net ,
Locally owned & wife of a W&L alum. Serving the community since 2007.

IVIQHEB LEQAL DEF'EN§E, PLLQ

RELIABLEAN

SHEILAMOHEB

D AFFORDAB

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Syrian army airstrikes break truce

The Syrian army started a series of domestic airstrikes on Friday. Activist
groups in the country are saying that the government is behind the attacks. The
first of the attacks destroyed a three—story building in Damascus, killing at least
eight people. These attacks ended a truce that had been reached between the
government forces and the rebels in honor of Eid al-Adha.

Tensions in Myanmar leave areas in

near destruction

Tensions between Buddhists and Muslims in Myanmar continue. Several ar-
eas of the country are near total destruction, according to Human Rights Watch.
The most recent violence forced over 3000 citizens to evacuate their homes
and move towards shelters. These people were added to the over ten thousand
Muslims currently forced to live in small camps around the capital. This unrest
is threatening fragile reform movements in the country.

Activists protest crackdowns on
Russian opposition  

Activists assembled in central Moscow on Saturday to protest the govem-
ment’s crackdown on the Russian opposition. The protest was primarily a dem-
onstration against the alleged torture of Leonid Razvozzhayev, a fellow activist.
Three men were detained by the police during the protest. However, charges are
yet to be brought against them.

Iranian Citizens win EU prize for
defense of human rights

The European Union gives an award every year for dedication to the de-
fense of human rights called the Sakharov Prize. This year, two Iranian citizens
known for their opposition to the'oppressive government were the recipients.
Nasrin Sotoudeh is a lawyer for opposition activists. She is currently in prison
for her work. Jafar Panahi is a ﬁlmmaker banned in Iran. Winners are awarded
a $50,000 prize.

N"l'chama accused of staging coup
in Guinea Bissau "

Captain Pansau N’Tchama is accused of trying to stage a coup in Guinea
Bissau. Some officials believe he is behind the attacks that occurred in an army
barracks last week. These attacks killed six people. The transitional government
of the country arrested N’Tchama on Saturday. Those who are suspected to have
participated in the attacks were also arrested.

Anti-austerity protests continue in

Spain

Anti-austerity protests against the Spanish government continued over the
weekend. A movement dubbed the “Surround Parliament” protest encouraged
people to march on the legislature in order to show their opposition to the new
policies. The protest was anticipated, however, and the people were held back
by metal railings around the legislature. A large police force was also present to
dissipate the crowd.

Tokyo governor steps down after 14
years

Shintaro Ishihara, the governor of Tokyo for almost 14 years, stepped down
this week. He is forming a new political party through which he hopes to ﬁx Ja-
pan’s ﬁscal and political struggles. He blames the central government for many
of the country’s recent economic issues. Ishihara’s party will focus on large-
scale reforms for Japan in his return to the national scene. '

LE LEGAL REPRESENTATION

o RECKLESS DRIVING

SPEEDING
DUIS

TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS

CAR ACCIDENTS

CRIMINAL MISDEMEANORS  

iMOEBLEiGAL.COM - (540) 520-7355

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

‘v.-‘-.'A:3'r€_l.‘lt’«.’!'i.)f-3 Sr LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXITJGTON, VA 24450
OCT 3 02012’

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER
Rockbridge Area Hospice held its
16th Annual Hospice Hustle 5K walk on
Oct. 27 at Brewbaker Field in Lexington.
The event aims to “raise funds to
bridge the funding gap between the
cost of caring for hospice patients and
theamount we are reimbursed through
Medicare” according to Michelle K.
Jones, outreach coordinator of Rock-
bridge Area Hospice. It is designed to
bring more awareness of hospice care to
the residents of Rockbridge County.
“When patients and families need
care, they already know us by name,”
said Jones. “[We can serve] all residents
of Rockbridge County regardless of abil-
ity to pay if they meet criteria.”
All funds from participants and spon-
sors are used for patients. A committee

consisting of staff, community volun-
teers and board members organize the
event every year. Hospice Hustle also
aims to bring more awareness about

Every year, Rockbridge Area Hospice
aims to “exceed last year’s amount raised

and have more participants,” said Jones.

The event first began 16 years ago as

“When patients and families need care, they already

know us by name, ” said Jones. “[ We can serve] all
residents of Rockbridge County regardless of ability to

pay if they meet criteria. ”

—Michelle Jones, Rockbridge Area Hospice Outreach

Coordinator

volunteer opportunities, the scope of the
hospice’s services and the service area.

a fundraiser for Rockbridge Area Hos-
pice. The ﬁrst Hospice Hustle took place

under Susan Hogg, director of Rock-
bridge Area Hospice, in 1997.

Rockbridge County High School’s
Interact Club has volunteered at every
Hospice Hustle since, and volunteer
Wally Fogo has served as Grand Mar-
shall every year.

This year saw a new addition to the
proceedings when Rockbridge Area
Hospice gave participants a chance to
honor and remember their loved ones
during the event’s opening ceremony.
For a $20 donation, volunteers could buy
a footprint with the name or names of
their loved ones, which were then placed
on Brewbaker Field prior to the race’s
start.

As purveyors of a unique service,

Rockbridge Area Hospice also works

ustling for Rockbridge area hospice

with the students of W&L. Staff from the
organization have come in to speak to
students about hospice care as an alter-
native to more aggressive’ medical treat-
ments, as‘ well as its relation to subjects
such as religion and mortality.

This year’s Hospice Hustle ended
with the event’s ﬁrst ever after party.
Live music was provided by Loose
Change, and the party was free to ev-
eryone in the community. Food and
beverages were available for purchase
and games for children and adults were
also available, giving participants of this
year’s Hospice Hustle and residents of
Lexington a chance to enjoy their hard
work for a good cause.

Crushing and oVer—  
Ralstorfs story

0
COII1]I1 '
0
By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Aron Ralston, the real-life story be-
hind the movie “l27 Hours,” will speak
on Thursday at Keller Theater in Lenfest
Hall. Doors open at 7 p.m. The talk is
free and open to the public. The event
is sponsored by Washington and Lee’s,
Contact Committee and Outing Club.

There will be a screening of “127
Hours” at 4 p.m. on Oct. 31 in Stack-
house Theater, and there will be a table
outside the Commons from 10 a.m. to
1 p.m. on Oct. 30, Oct. 31, and Nov. 1.
Stop by the table to learn more about
the event and for FREE Contact Com-
mittee cups and coozies, Outing Club
stickers and a raffle for signed copies of
Ralston’s book, “Between a Rock and a i
Hard Place.” '

Doors open at 7:00 p. m.

An experienced climber and avid
outdoorsman, Ralston was descending
a remote Utah canyon alone when an
800-pound boulder broke loose, crush-
ing his right hand and pinning him
against the canyon wall. After nearly
ﬁve days — without water and with no
hope of escape — Ralston made a life-
or-death decision. He chose life by sev-
ering his arm below the elbow, rappel-
ling a 65-foot cliff out ofthe canyon, and
trekking seven miles to ﬁnd his would-
be rescuers.

Ralston documented his life-altering
experience in the New York Times best-
selling memoir, “Between a Rock and
a Hard Place,” which has been adapted
for the big screen by Danny Boyle, the

Academy Award-winning director of
“Slumdog Millionaire.” The ﬁlm stars
James Franco as Ralston, and his perfor-
mance, as well as the movie, have been
nominated for numerous awards.

As an inspirational speaker, Aron
Ralston moves audiences with his unfor-
gettable story. An ordinary man pushed
to the limits, Ralston demonstrates the
human capacity for the extraordinary.
He takes you on a riveting jdurney in
which courage, perseverance, and hu-
manity will defy the inevitable outcome.

For more information about Contact
Committee, visit Contact.wlu.edu, like
them on Facebook and follow them on
Twitter at @wluContact.

MQURS

Thursday, Nov. 1, 2012
Keller Theatre, Lenfest Hall
Washington and Lee University

7:30 p. m.

CONTACT

COX l.\ll F.E
rimming Ihl’ |1'urlLl In lrxlnqlnrr
u1nl.u1.Mlil Cd“

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am — 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6. am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am — 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am — 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am — 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
wvvw.leehi.com See our menu online

 Twitter @berkysfood

Find us on Face book

Get Unlcashctl at BLBC...

Lcxillgtolfs Only .\'lit-I°oln'cwcI-y!

  Now Serving
Pints & Cask Ale

Bring the Folks this Weekend
2 year Anniversary Party: Nov. 30 & Dec. 1

|°owc|'y and Tap Room
123 S. Randolph St, Lexington, VA
540-458-0146
Tap Room Hours:
Wed 4:30—7 p.m.
Fri 3:00-7:30 p.m.
Sat 2-5 p.m.

and as needed... check our website...
www.b|ue|abbrewing.com

facebook: Blue Lab Brewin 0

Co., LLC

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

opinions

 

By Yates Wilburn
5 TA F F w R IT E R

After two mediocre to average debate
performances, President Obama ﬁnally
caught a lucky break in the form of the
foreign policy debate this past Monday.
He was alert, prepared, and on target in
seemingly every topic moderator Bob
Schiefer could throw at him and Gov-
ernor Romney. Not surprising, seeing
as how the President has the entirety
of the State Department at his disposal,
daily brieﬁngs from the CIA, NSA, FBI,
DOD, DHS, and the rest of the alphabet
soup. I’m not criticizing him in the least
for this; it’s just a huge advantage going
into a debate where your opponent has
had little to no experience on the subject
matter. I

This reality was on clear display on
Monday night, as Romney just seemed
utterly unprepared to handle the subject
of foreign policy. Everything from “Syr-
ia is Iran’s only route to sea” to Rom-
ney’s lack of knowledge of basic mili-
tary structure (which was not handled
in a very gentlemanly manner by the
President) just screamed a lack of prepa-
ration. Unfortunately for Romney, his
incredible political advantages regard-
ing ﬁscal and economic issues—which
he would have regardless of experience
based on the President’s record—do not
extend to matters of pure foreign policy.

Keep in mind, I’m not talking about

economic issues that have an impact on ‘

how we behave as a country diplomati-
cally; I’m talking about military strategy,
territorial disputes, political recognition
of new countries, diplomatic negotia-
tions, etc. Nothing in Mitt Romney’s life
could have prepared him to adequately
compete with the President on this topic.
The President had four years of direct,
practical foreign policy experience com-
plete with consequences to draw upon
for this debate, obviously he was going
to win to some degree, it was only an is-
sue of how much.

Now, this is not a problem that is
insurmountable to Romney. A decent
portion of our nation’s presidents were
governors. immediately before becoming
president with no other federal govem-
ment experience—9 of 44 to be exact.
Woodrow Wilson and Ronald Reagan
are among those ranks, both of whom

arguably executed their foreign policy
duties quite well, despite having no
previous hands-on foreign policy ex-
perience. This lack of experience was
compensated for by years of previous
education on such matters (Wilson) and
by surrounding oneself with several in-

telligent, relevant, and wise people with

key insight on foreign policy (Reagan).
So, seeing as a detailed education on

foreign policy is a bit out of the ques-
tion for Romney at this point, he should’
probably look to surround himself with
knowledgeable advisors who could aid
him in any difficult decisions he will
face should he win the White House in
November. Personally, I am not pleased
with some ofthe choices he has made in
this regard. 17 of 24 are hand-me-downs
from the previous Bush administration,

one of which is Cofer Black who was
key in the establishment (or maintain-
ing if they were already there) of CIA
“Blacksites,” and putting the prettiest
picture possible on the disaster that was
(and is) the post-Saddam Iraqi govem-
ment.

While Gil have voted absentee for
Romney and I am a Romney supporter,
I am still very concerned about how

Beating around the G.iW. Bush A

much of the Bush II era’s foreign policy
he will continue. This_is not to say that
the President hasn’t kept much of Bush’s
strategies and policies, but I’m not much
of a fan of those either. We’ll see what
the future holds in a couple of weeks.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
_ NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

IULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM
LEIGHDANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA]. KORASH-SCHIFF

SHELBY FLORES
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
BAILEY RUSSELL
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

RONALD MAGEE IR.
DAVID WILSON

DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the

undergraduate school year.

THE RING—TUM PHI is a'

member of The Media Board, which can be reached at

mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING.—TUM~PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and

advertising do not necessarily

reflect the opinion of THE

RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 4-58-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Twisted Halloween advice

By Leah Gose
STAFF w R ITER

Dear Lovely First-Years,

Welcome to the magical season of cos-
tuming at W&L! You have completed the
dreaded October midterms, so put your
books down and sign off from Facebook:
it’s time to get ready for Halloween. Asher
Roth was right to love college, and had he
attended W&L, he would have been a huge
fan of this coming Wednesday.

Your ﬁrst assumption is probably that
Halloween here is like the Mardi Gras of
Lexington. Women running about topless,
men- drinking away their livers, college co-
eds living the life reality television strives
to replicate. I bet this is what you were ex-
pecting:

“Mean Girls” got your hopes up in mid-
dle school, didn’t it? The key to the proper
Plastics-style Halloween costume: begin
with the word “sexy” and fill in the blank
with an animal of your choice. For some
reason, animals of the safari don’t work
as well, so I would stray away from “sexy
hippo.”

Guys, in this sassy Hollywood version
of Halloween, you would normally get
away with being Barack Obama or some-
one that wears a plastic mask. No one off
the hill would judge you for your lack of
creativity, but here we are not typical Hal-
loween participants. Instead, you have to
compete with this:

 

That’s right. You’re looking at the sexi-
est thing to happen to W&L Halloween
Wednesday ever. Boys, unlike the “sexy
kittens” you might see at Blahville Uni-
versity, you get Florence (without the Ma-
chine), a human Twister game, an Avatar
(complete with working tail), and the hot-

test VMI grandma since Betty White.

For all of the ﬁrst-years, out in the coun- _

try (where you’ll most likely experience the
best of Halloween), you’ll see walking (and
probably stumbling) Christmas trees, life-
sized Teletubbies (scary, I.know, right?),
and jailbirds (and I don’t mean like the
women in Chicago). Say goodbye to your
“Mean Girl” fantasies and accept the fact
you’ll probably spend this Halloween as a
Power Ranger.

We take pride in our traditions, so I hope
you plan to stick to your gut this Wednes-
day. Think big! Find the salt to your pepper
shaker. Go all out with the couples costume.
That’s the key to success for your ﬁrst Oc-

tober 31st on campus. This Halloween, es-
pecially, don’t underestimate the lines for
Traveller and think “warm,” since it’s sup-
posed to rain. After all, Sexy Eskimo has a
fun ring to it.

Yours truly,

Twister Girl

 

.. ﬁg

 

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

to tit   editor

As a black student at this school, I
found the Ring-tum Phi"s recent edito-
rial. “Potato farmers and politicians: mi-
norittes in America,” extremely offen-
si\'e. The \\riter‘s attempt to gloss over
years of systetnalic discrimination and
oppression of the colored minorities in
this nation as little more than a “hazing
ritual“ vs as as disgusting as it was false.
M _\' people were pac into the bottom
of ships and brought here against their

Remember the O-Week barbeque up

i at the Ruins? Munching on pulled pork,

watching the southern sunset, chilling
with friends, laughing at the poor sap
that SoCo picked out of the crowd to
dance to “Kiss the Girl,” and receiving
more W&L themed free stuff to add to
the growing pile in the corner of your
Graham-Lees room?

If that image stirred something in
you, then congratulations, you love your
school. School spirit is in the water here,
and why shouldn’t it be? W&L is the
crowned Queen of the South by college
rankings, and surrounded by awesome
alumni whose loyalty to their alma mater
makes Harvard students blush crimson
with envy.

Flash forward, and you are at a foot-
ball game, rocking your Lee Chapel at-
tire—yes, with the blue blazer, and all

will. Those that managed to survive the
disease-ridden conditions ofslave ships
arrived in a land where USA legislation
stripped them of the most basic human
rights and forced them to work in the
most miserable conditions. It was well
into the l80()‘s before this eountry’s
government recognized our rights as
human beings, and well into the 20th
century before we were recognized as
citizens. I recognize that Po|ish-Ameri-

' staffeditorial

the girls in their dresses and pearls—and
the Generals score a touchdown! The
speakers blast, and that familiar, age-old
tune soars through the air, the Washing-
ton and Lee Swing. Everyone’s clap-
ping until they can’t feel their hands, but
something’s missing. Besides that one
point that everyone yells “LIKE HELL,”
nobody knows the words!

We acknowledge that we could have
a lot bigger problems on our hands than
that we do not know the words to our own
ﬁght song. After all, we’re a‘ Division 3
school; we are not that big sports school
like WVU or Virginia Tech, or—gulp—
Penn State. But even with all that, the
Washington and Lee Swing is more than
some ditty we scream across the ﬁeld to
startle fans and wake up law students.
It’s like knowing the words to the Honor
Pledge‘ or the Pledge of Allegiance; it’s

cans have suffered ethnic discrimination
and prejudice. That said, I do not recall
the part in my history book where Pol-
ish persons were bound in chains and
forcibly brought to this co  nor do
I recall laws against Polish e learn-
ing how to read, own prop , or vote.
The implicit comparison ofthe suffering
of our respective races is insulting and
severely lacking in proper perspective.
“Your tnove, ‘minorities’ "? We have

a tradition that deﬁnes this campus. We
wouldn’t be W&L Generals without our
devotion to preserving tradition.

What a great tradition it is too! Three
W&L students, Mark Sheafe (Class of
I906), Tod Robbins (Class of 191 I),
and Thornton Allen (Class of 1913) are
responsible for writing the Washington
and Lee Swing I02 years ago, in 1910.
Since then, it has become one ofthe most
well-known college ﬁght songs in Amer-
ica, and also one of the most borrowed.

Among the other colleges who have

taken up the swing are Tulane, Gonzaga,
and Iowa State, each Division I schools,
who probably know their version of the
song better than we know the original.
The reason that it is so well known
is probably because ofthe world ofjazz.
Nearly all the great jazz standards in his-
tory, from Louie Annstrong to Glenn

done nothing but move. Every time we‘
rcvolted against the overseer’s lash,
we moved. When we walked down
the streets of Montgomery, Alabama to
protest against the segregation of pub-
lic transportation, we moved. When we
marched on Washington, D.C. for jobs
and freedom, we moved. And every time
we reassert our humanity in the face of
politicians who believe we are uni-
formly deficient and law enforcement

Miller to Pete Fountain and the Dukes of
Dixieland, have recorded “The Swing,”
at some point in their careers. It was even
featured in the 1959 Danny Kaye movie
“The Five Pennies.” -

Impressive, right?

And as bad as it is with the Swing,
most people are not remotely aware of
how to sing the other W&L songs. That’s
right, for those of you who didn‘t know,
we have three: the Swing, Shenandoah,
and the Washington and Lee Hymn, and
each are mostly noted because the three
old a cappella groups, SoCo, JubiL'ee,
and General Admission has adopted one
ofthe songs as a signature. But there are
a lot of other colleges out there with less
tradition, and weaker athletics even in
D3 that still know their school songs.

We really don’t have an excuse. Ju-
niors received cups during O-Week that

ofﬁcers who write off our murders as

justiﬁable, we move. This artie|e‘s effort

to minimize the strides that the colored
minorities ofthis country have made, as
well as the suffering that bred those ef-
forts, reeks ofthe worst ignorance.

Ronald Ray Magee Jr. ‘ l3

  

have the words to the ﬁght song on the
side of it, and every time anyone walks
into the U-Store, they are playing in the
background. If these were songs that
everyone knew before us, those alumni
who are noted for being so loyal to their
alma mater, how loyal are we to W&L
and to our alumni?

The point is that this really is not
about us, or our athletics. It is that we
preserve traditions from the past because
we are mindful of the future. Some of
those traditions should be taken with a
grain of salt sometimes, but these tradi-
tions are what give W&L such a distinc-
tive character. That distinctive character
is what makes this place so unique, so
the next time you go to a football game,

A do everyone a favor and try the words.

It‘s tnore fun for you and everyone else.

a

  

 

    
 
 

P Come ciieer Washgtonand Lee, A
We’re going to win another victory!

    

The White and Blue we will ever wave in triumph
For the University. RAH! RAH! RAH! S
Fight to the ﬁnish we are with you,
Break through the line on every play;

Rush the ball on down the ﬁeld
And we will win this game today.

When Washington and Lee’s menfall in line,
We’re going to win again another time;  
For W&L lyell, lyell, lyell,
And for the University, lyell, like hell!

  And we will ﬁght! ﬁght! ﬁght! for every yard; ’
i , ,Circle the ends and hit that line right hard! H .  

,     R And we will roll those Wahoos on the sod!     l  
 C     Yes, by God!RAH! RAH! RAH!     I   I

   
 

 

 

6 0 THE4RlNG'TUM PHI 0

arts&life

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29,2012

  

 

12 Signs it’sParents’ Weekend

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR
You see random 8 year-olds run

ning around Windfall on Friday night.

Meeting all these new faces,

memorizing all those names - it’s
like O-Week all over again - parents’
edition. #throwback #goodtimes

Southern lnn, Bistro, Brix, Red Hen
- now’s your chance to try them all!

The latest, time-tested, guaranteed-
to-succeed excuse on campus: ‘‘I can’t

“Birdie” soars

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

Sweet Apple, Ohio, was a town of
poodle skirts, steadies, and curfews un-
til Conrad Birdie, the object of teenage
fantasy, swept through the Midwest in
sequined suits and superstar self-impor-
tance. It didn’t take long for bobby socks
to give way to brawls, and pin curls to be
replaced by pandemonium. What ensued
was a medley of hilarious one-liners,
buoyant choreography, and heartfelt mu-
sical numbers. The result was a show that
was alternately whimsical and stirring,
and completely memorable.

The Washington and Lee production of
Bye Bye Birdie was sold-out in all its per-

.   

 

formances. The play, directed and choreo-
graphed by Ms. Jenefer Davies, received
nothing but positive reviews during its run
last Thursday evening to Sunday after-
noon. The packed theater was consistent-
ly brimming with eager audience mem-
bers waiting for the house lights to dim. It
was then, to the amusement of onlookers,
that University President Kenneth P. Rus-
cio appeared to the crowd via projection,
dressed every bit the 19505 news anchor,
and instructed viewers to silence their
cell phones. He would continue to appear
at various points throughout the play in
this quasi-Walter Cronkite role, always
eliciting a well-eamed chuckle from the
audience. Then the lights dimmed, the

first blast of the overture sounded, and the

show began.

A distressed Keith Trump ’ 14, in the role
of company man Albert Peterson, was the
ﬁrst to appear on stage. Albert, who was
visibly upset, revealed that his client, mu-
sic sensation Conrad Birdie (Drew Martin
’l3), had just been drafted into the army.
In walked Albert’s secretary Rose Alva-
rez, played by the perfectly-casted pow-

erhouse Noel Price ’13, who promptly

announced that she was leaving the com-
pany aﬁer eight years of neglect by Al-
bert. After a heated argument, they ﬁnally

. reached an agreement: Albert would leave -

 

Rigt before the opening nightperformance, the ntie cast and
crew come together for a light-hearted moment.

Eager fans of all ages and genders gather around teenage sensa-
tion Conrad Birdie (Drew Martin ‘13) during “One Last Kiss.”

[insert obligation of choice] because my
parents are coming.” And yes, it works

' for everything.

Ever wondered what your room-
mate would look like 25 years from
now? Well, now you do.

Every conversation involves at

least ﬁve “missus/mister/sirs/
ma’ms,” three questions about your fu- .
ture dreams and aspirations, twocheesy

the company to become an English teach-
er and marry Rose, so long as he could
ﬁrst earn enough money to go back to
school. Rose, the brains of the operation,
quickly concocted a plan: Birdie would
perform one last time before joining the
army. He would travel to a small town
in Ohio to meet the randomly-selected

fan, 17 year-old Kim MacAfee, perform ~

Albert’s song entitled “One Last Kiss,”
and then kiss Kim in a gesture designed
to melt the hearts oftans nationwide. And
thus the plot was set in motion.

With farcical plot twists and unfailing
punch, the play introduced Kim (Chap-

  
  

  

man Sklar ’l5), a sweetly naive Mid-
westemer, and the rest of Sweet Apple as
they grappled with the chaos that the hip-
swinging, eyebrow-raising rock god Con-
rad Birdie had brought to their little town.
Throughout the show, numerous songs
stood out. Trump’s rendition of “Baby
Talk To Me” was reminiscent of the
crooners of the past, channeling the likes
of Sinatra. Price had several dynamic
numbers, but her performance of “Span-
ish Rose” was the song that most capti-
vated audience members. Sklar’s “How
Lovely To Be A Woman” was at once
amusing and endearing, and Martin’s
“Honestly Sincere” had some onlook- i
ers clutching their sides with laughter at
his dead-on impression of Elvis. Trump,

 

Martin, Price, and Sklar were joined by
Emily Streeper ‘l6, Southern Virginia
University student Richard Allen Tem-
pleman ’l3, and law student Rob Zahm
‘ l3L to create an incredibly talented main
ensemble.

The outstanding cast, in addition to the
amusing storyline, was what made the
production truly special. Said Davies,
“We have a fantastic cast, who not only
are good actors and singers and dancers,
but they’re great people.”

jokes, and one very enthusiastic “nice to
meet you!” (or two, for brownie points).

You can’t stop grinning, and your
ﬁngers are permanently stuck in the
shape of a handshake.
8 Father and son dream team? Let’s
go.
Q Those lost freshmen wandering
around the quad a few weeks ago?

Now, they’re the ones pointing to maps
and giving directions to all the confused
parents.

E Bookstore sales skyrocket. Dra-

matically. There’s never been
a better time to stock up on your ever-
expanding collection of Nalgenes, Vine-
yard Vines attire, and W&L gear. Mom
and Dad just so happen to be in town,
and oh look, they can pay for everything,

FRIEDMAN     

FOR LEXINGTON

Graduate- LexingtonCity Schools, Waddell,
  Lylburn Downing, Lexington High School, t
Hampden-Sydney College, BS
Work- 1988 topresent in financial services industry
Jacksonville Florida (5), Richmond, Virginia (4) and
j A Lexington, Virginia (15) T
Returned- to Lexington in 1997as a financial .
  advisor and currently an advisor
with CornerStone Bank _
Served on the Lexington City School Board
April 1999 to December 2006
On Lexington City Council 2007 to 2010.
On United Way Board
Serving- Lexington Presbyterian Church,
SJH Community FoundationBoard,
Kendal at Lexington Board, A

March of Dimes

*Education is the cornerstone and foundation
of our Community. Education and responsible
financial operations are the focus of my efforts
for a positive and successful city. As the son
of a school teacher,a professional in the
financial services industry, and my‘ public
and professional experience for 24 years.
I will represent you well on our City Council.

to

too - what a wonderful coincidence!
ﬂ Your room has never looked clean

er. Seriously. You could eat off
the floor.
ﬂ Coming soon this Saturday night:

Mom and Dad take on Traveller. 1'

PLEASE VOTE November 6
FRIEDMAN FOR LEXINGTON

Authorizedand paid for by Friedman For Council

 

M O N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

By Caroline Hamp

0 STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee constantly boasts
that it is possible to start a student orga-
nization on campus if it does not already
exist. Sounds pretty cool, right? But I
have always wondered if this is really
possible — starting from scratch must be
difﬁcult. and success might be hard to
come by. Students for St. Jude has put
an end to all my doubts. After a long
hiatus from campus, it was brought back
by a small group of students in the fall

‘ . of 2009. The organization was started

only three years ago by seniors Olivia
Kantwill, Molly Rountree, and Angela
Tuminno, and it has already made a big
impact.

The success Students for St. Jude has
achieved in these three short years is
unbelievable. Its main fundraiser of the
year is Up ‘Til Dawn, a national event
that takes place on college campuses all
across the country. The proceeds go to
beneﬁt St. Jude’s Children’s Hospital
in-Memphis, Tenn. In the past, partici-
pants have come together for an evening
to personally write, sign, and address
letters asking for donations to St. Jude.
Last year alone, the organization raised
over $l3,000 — double the amount of
money they had previously raised! Talk
about success.

But Students for St. Jude are not going
to just stop there. This.year, the goal is

' to double the amount donated - again - to

raise a grand total of $25,000. Instead
of letter—writing in ‘person, the event will
begin online. Throughout the week,
there will be tables set up in the Com-
mons where students can register online
for a “giving page.” Each participant
has their own page, which they can send
out to friends, family, and professors,
asking for online donations. Ifyou want
to contribute to this success story, stop
by the Commons this week to sign up!
It only takes a minute, and every little
bit counts.

Anyone who raises $200 or more is
automatically invited to the spectacular
Up ‘Til Dawn event, a completely free
evening of _fun, games, food, prizes, and
entertainment, hosted on Nov. 8. W&L’s
very own Jubilee, Washingtones, Beth

.Wellford, and KLAZICS will be per-

forming - and that’s just the beginning.
Tanya Diona and Russell Graham, pro-
fessional musicians from the NYC area,
will also be performing. “Their past gigs
include performing with the American
Idol house band, Beyonce, Stevie Won-
der, Jessica Simpson... and the list of fa-
mous people continues,” said Logistics,
Entertainment, and Decorations Chair
Angela Tuminno ’13. “The duo will be
debuting a song they wrote specifically
for our event, to be available for pur-
chase on iTunes and other online music
retailers, the proceeds from which will

 
. 7 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&|ife

Students prepare for Up ‘Til Dawn  

go entirely to St. Jude.”
You won‘t want to miss this successful
event.

Up ’Til Daw

donations for St. Jude’s Children’s Hos-
pital, you can be a part of all this excite-
By helping raise mentl For more information, check out

\ ,,, 
 ‘ ‘h? >-

and Lee Students for St. Jude.

3‘ 0 I’ 

Students personally write, address, and stamp letters asking for donations to raise money for St.
Jude’s Children’s Hospital at last year’s highly successful Up ‘Til Dawn event. ,

Matt Bass ‘15 

Name: Matt Bass
Hometown: Beaufort, SC

 Major: Biology

Year of Graduation: 2015’ I -

 Activities you are involved in on campus: Outing Club

Is your family coming up for Parents’ Weekend? Did they come
. up

55

'6

, take them to Sa|erno’s or Macado 5.

ast year?
Yes and yes.

What activities are your family going to take part in this Parents’
Weekend?

We want to go to the South Carolina parent—student rece tion that is put
on by the upperclassmen parents. We went last year, an its always nice
to hang out with students from the same area as you. I'm also planning to

I

What was your favorite part of Parents’ Weekend last year?

_ We all j_ust really enjoyed each others’ company, since we hadn't seen each

other since the beginning of the school year.
Are you asking your family to bring anything you forgot?

 I'm having them bring up my bike from home. Walking is overrated.

. What has been your favorite part of fall semester so far?

. ,0 ‘ Justebeing back to see and hang out with all my friends has been awe-
»  som .

0"}: ‘Favorite W&L Tradition?

I‘ I love the Speakin Tradition. It helps build that sense of community that
I , I'm sure every stu ent here enjoys.

0:’ ‘I7, V George or Bob?

Emily Utter ‘16

Name: Emily Utter
Hometown: Quogue, New York
Major: Business Administration
Year of Graduation: 2016

Are your parents coming down for Parents’ Weekend?

Just my mom will be coming down for Parents’ Weekend.

V V I What are you most looking forward to doing with your family?

Just spending some time together, and eating out instead of at D—Hall.

Any plans for the weekend? Any reservations in town?

I I My b_irthday is on Thursday
tha night, and then my mom wan

We all forget a few things mo

M U !Id'd tth'k't '
V ggriowi !he”‘v’laik'?o r'nyW§Sa?n°lUfli

so we have reservations at Southern Inn
ts to go to one of the concerts over
the weekend.

vjng to college. Are your parents

bringing up anything you missed?

to get so cold_here so fast, [and
be so much nicer with them on.

What has been your favorite part of fall semester so far?

I'm really enjoying meeting people from all over the world! '

Favorite class this term and why? 3»

That's a hard question to answer; I like them all a lot!

I have_n’t made it to_ Sweet Frog_ y
Sweet Things, and their ice cream IS

Sweet Frog or Sweet Things?

et —_ it's not nearly as convenient as
delicious, so it works out perfectly!

Bobby Lee, of course. I like his sense of humor!

E ;A

the F acebook page online at Washington

By Mariel Pearl

  

 

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI ~

MON DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

 

arts&|ife

 

 

By.Bai|ey Russell
3 TA F F w R lT E R

Ever wonder what’s going on at
campus while a party is going on in the
country? As soon as the clock hit twelve
last Friday, Public Safety was called to
remove a few students from a fraternity
house due to drinking on the roof of the
house. The officers joked that bad be-
havior came with the full moon.

“In eight years, I‘can count only
about ten really bad incidents,” said Of-
ﬁcer Ms. Kay Bostick. Bostick is a re-
tired social worker who moved to back
to Lexington, where she was born and
raised, to take care of her family.

“As long as 1 don’t interject my
level of maturity, I’m all right,” she
said regarding typical college behavior.
Public Safety gets called for episodes
as harmless as a mouse loose in the Sci-
ence Center or a broken electric breaker
from too many girls blow-drying their
hair at the same time, to something as
serious as transporting students from
the Health Center to the hospital.

Bostick stated that there is at least
one officer and one sergeant working
on every shift. She works a swing swift,
meaning that it varies from day to day.
Each scheduled shift gets split up into
an A-side and a B-side. The A-side
includes covering academic buildings,
while the B—side includes supervising
fraternity houses, sorority houses, and
any outlying buildings from campus.

According to Bostick, the officers
are encouraged to “SLR” — “stop, lis-
ten, respond.” In addition to doing this,
sergeants complete check points, but
mostly on mobile patrol. Public Safety
drives around at night to monitor the
buildings, making sure doors and gates
aren’t propped open. Oﬁicers do not pa-
trol Windfall or the Pole Houses, which
are under the jurisdiction of Rockbridge
County, but they will go to the country
if they get a call.

“You guys don’t like to carry your
swipes, which makes our job harder,”
said Bostick. Public Safety makes sure
the back doors to the sorority houses
especially are locked, and ofﬁcers often
come back to lock them for the night af-
ter Traveller has completed its last stop.
These doors, according to Bostick, are
a “hot spot,” a term used to describe the
areas she focuses most on.

Bostick’s knowledge of these “hot
spots” comes from years of experience,
which is evident in all that she does.
While patrolling the parking lots, for

Public Safety officers on a regular basis.

 

 

instance, she easily spotted an unregis-
tered car, one that she had been warned
twice about before. She has developed
such an eye that she knows exactly '
whose car should be where in the vicin-
ity.

“The city’s only a mile and two
quarters... you can only loop it so
much,” laughed Bostick. She usually
puts about 25 to 30 miles on the squad
car each night as she makes her rounds.
By staying close on course, Bostick
makes sure she is nearby in case of a
call. After all, those one or two minutes
can make_a huge difference in an out-

come. During her shift from 12 am to 8
am the next morning, she usually walks
around buildings three or four times to
stretch her legs and take a break from

’ sitting in the car. Occasionally, Bostick

even shoots a few hoops in the gym as
she passes through.

“Document, document, document...
if you don’t document, it didn’t hap-
pen,” said Bostick. She is familiar with
this principle from her prior experience
as a social worker. Even now, as she is

studying for her masters in criminal jus-

tice, this notion continues to ring true.
“Do yourjob to the best of your

The secret lives of Public Safety

Public Safety officers debrief in the office during a meeting to discuss the different routs and assignments for the night.
ficer takes turns with alternating shifts to make sure that all parts of campus are covered throughout the night.

ability, and don’t worry about the
politics behind it," Bostick said about
holding students accountable for the
Honor System. Ultimately, breaches are
up to the SJC. Sheadded, "I.don’t go
lookin[g] for trouble.” Instead, Bostick
strives to make sure that no property
has been vandalized. Each building is
checked inside and out at least twice a
night.

“The last thing we want is for
someone to get hurt,” she said. On big
party nights, Bostick watches Traveller
stops to make sure crowds of students
don’t overflow into the street. She un-

Scene on Call...

Senior Sergeant Larry Stuart directs trafﬁc and oversee vehicle registration in the student par

__ :_’_‘,'.::_  .,..—~.

   

can {if-

derstands that when Traveller arrives,
students’ only interest is getting onto
the bus, so she always watches for any
potential dangers that may arise during
the boarding chaos. . - < .

“You can lead a horse to water. but
you can’t make it drink,” she said. as 21‘ .
stumbling student declined the ridc,.l%o-
stick offered her. _ _

“This is thejob... thejob is out
here,” she added. No matter where -
students are at night- rest. or don"t rest
- assured that Public Safety is diligently
patrolling campus.

  

 

 

 

 

M ON DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

Leigh Dannhauser

 

I think we all know by now what happened to
Lance Armstrong recently. If not, here is a quick
recap. Earlier this month Annstrong was found
guilty of doping by the United States Anti-Doping
Agency. As a result he was disqualiﬁed from all of
his races since 1998 and more importantly stripped
of his seven Tour de France victories.

When stripping Armstrong of his titles, the Inter-
national Cycling Union and the Tour de France or-
ganization did not name any new champions. From
now on there will be a blank spot in the winners
section from 1998 to 2005.

Some may argue that it would only be fair to
move the second place winners for seven years
up to the winner’s circle. It would make sense be-
cause they would be the top ﬁnisher that qualiﬁed.
However, I believe that the races should remain
winner-less.

The main reason is that there is no ‘way to prove
that the runner-ups did not dope as well. Dick
Pound, former president of the World-Anti-Dop-
ing Agency, summed it up best when talking to
USA Today.

“It indicates that no one in the races was above
suspicion, which highlights the fact that dop-
ing was prevalent during the entire period,” said
Pound. '

How prevalent? Almost all of the top three ﬁn-
ishers in each of Armstrong’s victories have been
somehow connected with doping. Who knows
how far down the results list one would have to
go to ﬁnd the ﬁrst rider that was not connected.
And even though that person was not connected, it

is possible that

   

 

9 ' THE RING-TUM PHI ‘

Hailey Hartley

Lance
their team- Armstrong
mates who has a cloud
helped them along’ of uncertainty
the way were and and distrust sur-

did’ dope them-

 
  

rounding him. His

selves.

It would not be
fair to take the title
away from one man
for cheating just to

Lance Armstrong was stripped of his Tour de France
victories, but no cyclists were named the new victors.
Should the UCI name seven new champions? a
Leigh and Hailey square oﬁf. ’

seven career Tour
de France wins (in
row) were un-
precedented, he was
considered one of,

give it to someone
else who may have
done the very same thing.

The other reason is that it will be impossible to
just forget that Armstrong was the real winner for
all of those years. Armstrong will always be re-
membered, either by those who still believe his in-
nocence and think he was greatly wronged, or by
those who believe that he deserved to lose his titles
and think that he was a massive cheater that ruined
the integrity of the sport.

The lack of any winners will serve as a reminder
for all about the doping. When looking back at the
history, people will see the blank spots and know
about the doping controversy and how it negative-
ly affected the sport. Putting names in Armstrong’s
place will only lead people to forget about what
the UCI has called “the dark years of the sport.”
The UCI cannot afford to forget about this contro-
versy that has had such a great impact on the sport
of cycling and its reputation.

if not the greatest
cyclist in the histo-
ry of the sport. His cancer survival story ‘and
his Livestrong brand inspired countless men,
women, and children with cancer. But what
is to become of him now, and what legacy
will be left behind?

The evidence seems irrefutable; there are
over 20 people, ex-teammates, who are cor-
roborating the evidence that Armstrong was
using performance-enhancing drugs. Arm-
strong did the right thing by vacating his Tour
de France wins. Whether or not he did any-
thing wrong, the evidence seems to indicate
that he did not earn the wins fairly. But the
actions that the lnternational Cycling Union
(UCI) are taking seem questionable.

The UCI has announced that after vacat-
ing his position as Tour de France winner, the
position will remain vacated. No one will be

retroactively named a winner, and no scoring ‘

positions will be changed. They claim that
there is no ‘honor’ to reassigning winners.

Because they will not assign new winners
for the ’98-’05 Tours, the record books will
simply say “vacated.” Even though they say
“vacated,” people will automatically think
about Lance Armstrong. When people see
“vacated” they will think about Armstrong
and the cloud of uncertainty that not only is
tainting his legacy, but the legacy ofthe sport.

-This ruling by the UCI also seems to be a
bit‘ hypocritical. At the 2010 Tour, Alberto
Contador was on the podium as the winner.
But tests after the Tour showed that Contador
had tested positive for performance enhanc-
ing drugs. The UCI retroactively removed
Contador as winner and announced the sec-
ond place finisher, Andy Schleck, as the new
victor. The difference in time between the
win and positive test, or the fact that this is
Lance Armstrong, could be the reason for the
differences. The UCI should remain constant
in their rulings and reassign ’98-‘05’s win-
ners.

By assigning new winners for these Tours,
the UCI can help cycling get _over this scan-
dal, and move beyond Armstrong.

 

VBa11 falls against two ranked teams

By Shelby Flores
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee volleyball
team will host Roanoke on Wednesday,

. Oct. 31 in the Old Dominion Athletic

Conference Tournament Quarterﬁnals.

Last Wednesday, the Generals ﬁn-
ished up regular conference play with a
win over Bridgewater. With the win the
Generals secured the second seed behind
Randolph-Macon in the ODAC Touma-
ment.

Last weekend, the Generals ltrav-'

eled to Atlanta, Ga. to play three non-
conference matches at the Emory Na-
tional Invitational Tournament. The
team ﬁnished the weekend with two
losses to third-ranked Wittenberg and
sixth-ranked Emory and a victory over
UMass-Boston. The losses did not affect
the Generals’ standing in the ODAC.
Wittenberg ended the Generals’
eight-match winning streak on Friday.
Lausberg and sophomore’ defensive
specialist" Kelly McManus each totaled

double digit digs in the match. Meleski
tallied three blocks and eight assists in
the match.

Later in the day the Generals faced
UMass-Boston. Boles led the Generals
offense with 23 kills. Meleski tallied 28
assists in the match and ﬁrst-year libero

Kasey Cannon led the defense with 21 

digs.

On Saturday W&L hit .190 in the 3-1
loss to Emory. The loss marked the last
regular season match for the Generals.
Boles was named to the all-toumament
team.

The ODAC tournament begins on 
Wednesday for the top eight teams in 

the conference. If the Generals win on

Wednesday, they will face the winner  g _V
of the Emory & Henry-Bridgewater   

match. The ODAC semiﬁnals and ﬁnals  j 4
on Saturday will be held at top-seeded — =  = 

Defensive Specialist Kelly McManus
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Randolph-Macon College.

 

Lee wins the

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

In front of a home crowd of over
2,000 people, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity was once again able to take it to
the Virginia Military Institute men’s la-
crosse team in the annual Lee-Jackson
Classic.

The Generals scored 11 unanswered
goals in the second quarter on their way

to taking the victory 19-8.

Senior Cooper Brown and sopho-
more Garrett Paglia led the_ Generals at
their home turf with ﬁve points each.
Paglia scored four goals, including the
ﬁrst goal less than two minutes into the
game. Brown added three goals of his
own.

Junior Dylan Florig also had a strong
performance for the Generals in goal,
blocking 13 shots and allowing just
seven goals in 56 minutes of play. Ad-
ditionally Florig was honored with the
Worrell-Fallon Memorial Award, the
award given to each team’s most valu-
able player.

Classic again

VMI was led by seniors Russell East
and Bernie Mowbray. Between them
they scored six of the Keydets’ eight
goals. East and Mowbray scored three
apiece.

In the net for the Keydets was senior
Matt Lindemann. Lindemann made 16
saves while playing the full 60 minutes.

The Classic was W&L’s only game
this fall. They start up again on Feb. 12
when they host Ferrum.

VMI hosts a three way scrimmage
this weekend to end their fall season.
They start their official season on Feb.
9 when they travel to Annapolis to face
Navy. ‘ ‘

Generals drown Yellowj aekets

By Hannah Howard
s TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee swim teams
had the upper hand in their meet on Sat-
urday, when they took down the men and
women swimmers of Randolph-Macon
College. The Yellowjackets put forth a
valiant effort, but their team — primarily
composed of freshmen and sophomores
— couldn’t keep up.

The W&L men collected 145 points
while the women put up 153 compared
to R—M’s 100 and 103 respectively. ‘-

W&L took ﬁrst place spots in the ma-
jority of the events and even swept the
top three spots in six races. The women
swept in the 200-yard free, 100-yard
breast, 200-yard breast, and 200-yard

ﬂy. The men held all three spots in the 

100-yard free and 100-yard breast.
Senior Rick Sykes swam the 50-yard
free in a time of 20.90, an NCAA B-cut
time. Other top spots went to seniors
Izzy Brassﬁeld for the 50-yard free and
Kelly Mae Ross for the 1000-yard free.
There were many notable perfor-
mances by ﬁrst-year swimmers, as well.
Stephanie Foster took ﬁrst in the 100-

 

~ La

yard back, 200-yard back, and 200-yard
medley relay along with sophomores
Caroline Hamp and Sarah Schaffer, and
fellow ﬁrst-year Hannah Melkun. First-
years Billy Fries, Matt Kiser, and Emma
Swabb also contributed to the Generals’

 

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

list ofﬁrst place ﬁnishes.

The Generals will travel to Charlotte,
N.C. on Nov. 2 to compete against ﬁve
other schools.

XC leads the pack

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee women’s cross
country took ﬁve of the top nine spots
on their way to taking the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship on
Saturday.

W&L ﬁnished 22 points ahead of sec-
ond place Bridgewater.

Bridgewater’s Olivia Mills and Kay-
lee Kubisiak took the ﬁrst two spots
but the Generals’ trio of seniors Lauren
Schultz and Molly Ortiz, and ﬁrst-year
Casey Mackintosh took.the third through
ﬁfth spots.

The Generals sealed the victory
when juniors Brandie Huffman and
Annelise Madison ﬁnished eighth and
ninth respectively rounding out the scor-
ing before the third Bridgewater runner
crossed the ﬁnish line._

Schultz, Ortiz, and Mackintosh were
named to ﬁrst-team all-ODAC for ﬁnish-
ing in the top ﬁve. .

Schultz made the all-ODAC ﬁrst
team during all four years of her W&L
career. Additionally, she was named the
ODAC/Fann Bureau Scholar-Athlete for
the second year in a row.

Huffman and Madison earned sec-
ond—team all-ODAC honors for ﬁnishing
in the top nine.

Hardware was received all around.
Coach Kris Hoey was named the ODAC
Coach of the Year following the meet.

The Generals now get a week off be-
fore travelling down to Atlanta for the
NCAA South/Southeast Regional race
on Nov. 10. e

 

 

 

10 ' THE RING-TUM PHI -

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 29, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers
1

Susan Slusser has beome the first woman to head up the
Baseball Writer's Association of America. Additionally,
Gaku Tashiro became the first Japanese member of the

board.

45

The number of unanswered points that the New England
Patriots scored against the St. Louis Rams in Sunday's
game in London. The Rams scored on the first drive of the
game before the Patriots shut them down and scored on

their own first five drives. The Patriots won the game 45-7.

6

The total number of turnovers by the Dallas Cowboys in their
game versus the New York Giants on Sunday._ The Giants

won 29-24 after blowing a 23-0 lead

17

The number of games in a row that the New England Patri-
ots have had at least 350 yards of total offense. This breaks

the old NFL record set by the St. Louis Rams in 1999-2000.

 

soapbox

“Maybe after the World Series, maybe when
Iget back home and sit in my house in a
chair, l’ll say, “You know what? I think I was
in the World Series.” But right now, lfeel
like I’m in a dream.”

1 San Francisco Giant's left fielder Gregor
Blanco about playing In the World Series.
Last year he was not even on a major
Jeague roster, from Sl.oom

“Don’t get me wrong. If you made me
choose, I'd rather watch RG3. He swerves
and curves as though his hips were
removed at birth. But he doesn't seem to
care much about football when he's doing
it. He's fumbled ﬁve times on runs already
this season, and two of them potentially
cost the Redskins games. Give me Luck,
who hasn’t fumbled on a run once.”

-RlckRelllyIn hlscolumforsporlslllusteatedtlllod, ‘QBRor
RG3?'. ltlooks lllo Relllysldeswlth Halley Hartlqrs plddng
oI'Andrewurcl(overRobertGrlfllnlllasthobel1arrooldo
quarlnrbacl(bacl(lnSepIlembor.

ondeok

Monday

Men's Soccer

Faculty-athletic mentor program upholds

ideals of Washington and Lee

By Pat McCarron

STAFF WRITER _
At the beginning of each men’s cross-coun-

try and track season, Professor Holt Merchant
of the history department and faculty-athletic
mentor program tells his athletes, “Here I am,
l’ll listen if you have a problem.” Considering
the multitude of deans, counselors and advi-
sors available around campus, Merchant ac-
knowledges the fact that “chances are, they’ll
go to others ﬁrst” with their problems.

But this is not a negative reﬂection on
Washington and Lee’s faculty-athletic men-
tor program. Beginning in 2008, W&L’s ath-
letic department was inspired by the College
Sports Project to begin the program. CSP’s
primary goal was “strengthening the bonds
between intercollegiate athletics and educa-
tional values,” and W&L saw the value in
this endeavor. In the case of Merchant, the
program has not necessarily caused his track
and cross-country protéges to line up outside
of his door in hopes for him to address their
every problem; again, this duty is primarily
designated to deans, counselors, and advisors.

However, this program largely represents
W&L’s values as a whole. In a Division I
school, Merchant realizes that “integration
[of students’ athletic and academic aspects of
life] would be a real problem,” since coaches
of such athletic programs “have no ﬂexibil-
ity whatever”. In an academically prestigious
school where Division III athletics are not as
demanding, a key realization among student-
athletes and coaches at W&L emerges: aca-

demics always come ﬁrst.

It is for this reason that integration be-
tween athletics and academics has not been
a problem at W&L, even before the athletic-
faculty mentor program was established four
years ago. In fact, this statement held true ﬁf-
ty-one years ago when Merchant ran track and
cross-country as a General. Therefore, while
in Merchant’s case the faculty-athletic mentor
program did not result in clamoring demand
for his mentoring outside of the students he
has already taught, it is still symbolic of the
Washington and Lee ideology.

Jeff Barnett, professor of Romance lan-
guages and mentor of the men’s baseball
team, describes the program as “a symbolic
bridge between the Colonnade-our academic
center-and the playing ﬁelds. I think it’s im-
portant for students to perceive how different
components of their identity come together
to form their greater academic life. In other
words, at a college like Washington and Lee,
academics shouldn’t be set aside as just one
more component - it’s the center of why we’re
here.”

For Merchant, the most valuable aspect of
the program has been the way it has brought
him closer to the students he teaches. He does
not merely attend every cross-country and
track meet; he ofﬁciates them, placing him in
the middle of the action. He is there to lend
his support while also playing a key role. He
also gives an extra effort to attend the games

Profesor Holt Merchant
Faculty-Athletic mentor

of his students outside of cross-country and
track alone, running the gamut from soccer to
football to‘ﬁeld hockey.

The bottom line is, no matter each student’s
background, the student body of W&L is here
chieﬂy for academic purposes. The athletic-
faculty advisor program acknowledges this
notion, while optimistically blurring the line
between two supposedly distinct aspects of-
student life: academic and athletic.

FH falls

By Shelby Flores
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Washington and Lee fell on Saturday in the
opening round of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

The game was originally scheduled to start
at l p.m. but only one official showed up to
the ﬁeld. The game did not start until 4:30
p.m. once a second official could be located.‘

Shenandoah controlled the ball for most
of the game as they defeated W&L 1-0. F irst-
year forward Kelani Bailey scored the only
goal in the game eight minutes into the second
half for the Hornets.

in first round

This was the last time that seniors Kirsten
Kyne and Chelsea Stevenson took the turf.
Kyne played the entire game in the net mak-
ing 13 saves. She ﬁnishes her career with
29] saves. Stevenson ﬁnishes her career af-
ter starting all her games and co-led the team
with four goals. .

Junior defender Lauren Boone led the
Generals with two shots and one on goal.
Sophomore midﬁelder Anna Kathryn Barnes
added one shot and one on goal.

The regular season ended for the Generals

on Wednesday when they lost to Bridgewater,
2-0. ,

Bridgewater controlled the ball for most of
the game and outshot W&L 2l-6. First-year
forward Taylor Prillaman scored both goals
for the Eagles.

After the losses the team ﬁnished with a
6-12 overall record. Shenandoah will advance
to the semiﬁnals of the ODAC Tournament
and play at Lynchburg on Tuesday, October
30.

Heinsohn leads Generals’ charge

Bysarah Ward
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee used an early lead to
defeat Catholic University on the Cardinals’
homecoming weekend on Saturday aftemoon
41-14. The Generals improved to 4-1 in con-
ference play and 6-2, overall.

The Generals scored touchdowns their ﬁrst
two possessions. Senior slotback Brett Murray
gained 84 yards on a pass from junior quar-
terback Nick Lombardo to give the Generals
a 7-0 lead with 6:44 left in the ﬁrst quarter.
Senior running back Luke Heinsohn ran for
23 yards into the end zone to make the score
l4-0 less than a minute into the second quarter.
Heinsohn broke the record for most rushing
yards on this drive.

The Cardinals threw a touchdown pass to
make the score 14-7, but the Generals coun-
tered with a 10 yard touchdown run from se-
nior running back Sasha Vandalov to bring to
score to 21-7 at halftime.

scored yet again on a 5-yard run to increase

the lead to 21. Murray added another six points

i A ‘ _ with a l-yard run to make the score 34-7 with

  

Runningback Lue Heinsohn
courtesy of W&L Sports Information

With 6:08 left in the third quarter, Vandolov

 

ten minutes left in the second half. The Gen-

erals responded to a late touchdown by the

Cardinals with a 6-yard run into the end zone
by ﬁrst-year running back Joseph Beninati to
score his ﬁrst touchdown of the season.

Washington‘and Lee totaled 537 yards in
the game, with Lombardo tallying a career-
high 168 yards. Murray gained 214 total
yards and Vandalov recorded 101 yards on the
ground. Senior safety Jake Pelton and senior
linebacker Jesse Jenkins led the defense for the
Generals. Pelton had eight tackles and an inter-
ception while Jenkins also had eight tackles as
well as a sack.

The Generals hope to break the ﬁrst place
tie in the ODAC next Saturday as they play
Hampden-Sydney at 1:00 pm in Lexington.

Generals fifth, only three points out

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s men’s cross country
team wasn’t able to come out on top of a race
for third at the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championships.

Lynchburg took the team title with almost
ease. They had a total of 28 points, with four
of their ﬁve scorers in the top ten. Bridgewa-
ter took second place with 57 points.

The battle for third place was much closer.
Just three points separated the teams that ﬁn-

Tuesday Wednesday

vs VaWes TBA

ished third through ﬁfth.

Roanoke was able to take third place over
Guilford by two, a team with that had three.
runners in the top ten. W&L took ﬁfth place
just one point behind Guilford. Roanoke ﬁn-
ished with 134 points, Guilford with 136, and
W&L with 137.

Junior Kane Thomas led the Generals,
crossing the line in 19th place.

Senior Tyler Gehrs was the next best ﬁn-

Thursday Friday

isher for W&L in 28th. First-year Levi War-
ring ﬁnished less than two seconds later tak-
ing 30th. Less than a minute later the Generals
scoring was completed. Sophomore Scott
Sudgen ﬁnished in 33rd place and ﬁrst-year
Blake Liebling ﬁnished in 38th place.

The Generals hit the trails again on Nov.
10 as they head to Atlanta for the NCAA
South/Southeast Regional race.

Saturday

 

Sunday

Volleyball

vs Roanoke TBA

vWomen’s Swimming

at Mecklenburg

at Mecklenburg

Men's Swimming

at Mecklenburg

at Mecklenburg

Riding

at Bridgewater lnv p

Football

vs Hampden-Sydney

Wrestling

at VT Open 9 am

  

 

