MONDAY, .

Who’s behind all the fun
this past week? Meet the
soon—to-be brothers of Phi
Kappa Psi.

Friend us on
Facebook!

       

MA§cH'

   

    
 
   

@ringtumphi

"\
P
4

Have a story ideafor us?
Send it to US on Twitter or
Facebook wit/1

News...2

 

Opinions...3
Arts & Life...5

“Q, as .
fr"

 

M ,l’Vec,-’1ttzes¢/c/ktT‘
 Partlysunny

I’ 

 '1"/zz.//we/(,1_tv’
“*5: Partlysunny

»,.N** “tag F/‘idea’

4‘?
Ah;

74- Partlysunny _



Sc1tzn‘a’a_i‘

 g «...1

 Mostly Cloudy

23?-45,°,-..- ..

,)~‘«i«<t,4 Szzna’a_t’

V’

 

my

  '  Part|ySunny
‘  31°"-43°

V Mona’at~'
we“  '  Cloudy

VT

32°-50°

 
 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS ANID FOR THE STUDENTS S|NCE‘.1897

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 17

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

Despite Washington and Lee Uni-
versity‘s Honor System, students should
take precautions to protect themselves
and their belongings due to threats from
the community, said Director of Public
Safety Michael Young.

“There are times when l do think the
Honor System gives us a false sense of
security,” he said.

On Tuesday, March 5, at around 7:30
'p.m.. a local citizen began banging on the
door of the Sigma Nu fraternity house,
yelling at the students to let him inside.
The fraternity brothers quickly called
Public Safety, who arrivedjust before the
police to take care of the situation.

Sophomore David Thomas, who wit-

nessed the incident, said the man might
have been high on drugs and had already
been accused of trespassing in the com-
munity. Thomas said that fraternities
commonly leave their houses unlocked
due to the schools Honor System.

“Well often leave our doors open, and
there'll be times when no ones there,” he
said.

Young said that theft has also in-
creased on campus this year. He specu-
lates that the recent spike in theft is to be
blamed on community members, rather

_V than students bound by the Honor Sys-

teni.
“We‘ve had issues with some of our
local citizens entering buildings this aca-

demic year,” he said.

He added that theft most commonly
occurs in the Commons, library and gym.

In fact, Head Wrestling Coach Nathan
Shearer described an
incident that befell the
team during a February
practice.

“All types of items
were stolen: cash, cell
phones, clothing, jack-

their belongings in the gym.

Young gave advice to the student

body.
“You can’t simply leave your laptop

ets jewelry shoes vED:”°vR_ [N Tc”,
etc.,” he said. ‘    
Young speculated as ,_ dog .>  g

to why theft has risen.

“I think that with
the tough economic
times people are look-
ing for easy opportuni-
ties to steal from us,”
he said.

Young said he has
seen students react to
the inci‘ease in theft.

“It would appear
that our students are
more [conscious]' of
their security and
aren’t leaving stuff ly-
ing around like they
were,” he said. He said
students are not leav-
ing as many bags in the
open and are securing

the creeper ,

Jmmeone to

Campus theft on the rise

Honor System creates a false sense of protection from local criminals

computer out unprotected for hours at a
time and expect it to be there,” he said.
“We are all responsible for our personal
security.”

. 

X .

 " --

9

if Men’s tennis crushed both Randolph-Macon and Virginia Weslyan in a doubles match last’ Friday. Saturday they lost to Mary
Washington, but rallied on Sunday to defeat Emory & Henry. Senior and Captain Ha
record of 8-3 after the weekend’s games. Photo courtesy of generalssports.com.

yden White has led his team to a season

51"‘) average party length

active fraternities

years SOLO has been
the “party cup "

SOLO cups per party

cans of beer
In one keg‘

Students don‘t tend to make the envi-
ronment their ﬁrst priority when enjoy-
ing Washington and Lee’s party scene.

  

Named the “most raging party scene” last

year by College Prowler, W&L sees a
great deal of “party waste.”

Where there’s a party, there are Solo
Cups. According to senior Mike Jensen,
his fraternity uses on average of 600 plas-
tic Solo Cups per party.

“Most of the time, we don’t recycle.
its more of an inconvenience factor,”
said Jensen when asked about his dispos-
al of the cups post-party.

These petroleum-based Solo Cups
impair more than support sustainability
with their slow decomposition rate, said
one UNC news source. Therefore, an in-
crease in the amount of Solo Cups ulti-
mately harms the natural environmental
process due to their failure to decompose
at a fast rate.

Director of Environmental Studies
Jim Kahn said that the two issues afﬂict-
ing W&L’s party scene are not only ex-

tensive cup usage, but also the “aesthetic

 

impacts of the laziness of party goers,
who simply refuse to put their cups in the
trash and throw them on the ground.” He
also points out the potential environmen-
tal problems of cups blown into the river
at the Pole Houses.

“There are two primary impacts of the
cups,” said Kahn. “One is that the county
is running out of landﬁll space, and this
is going to necessitate a more expensive
treatment of trash disposal in the future.
The second is the energy use associated
with the cups, which contributes to global

warming.”
However, without beer, there would
not be much need for Solo Cups.
Environmental impacts from beer

stem mainly from its packaging and trans-
portation. While aluminum cans are eas-
ily recyclable, kegs are efﬁcient in their
re-usage. An environmental advantage
of kegs is the lack of packaging required

compared to aluminum cans. While kegs

community.”

 
  

  

are a primary choice for most fraternities
on campus, there is still an abundance of
aluminum beer cans that go unrecycled.

“[Our fraternity] usually mixes it up,”
said sophomore Alex Cram. “We use
kegs because they are cost eﬂ‘icient and
cans because they are convenient and
sometimes preferred.”

W&L students have access to several
recycling resources on campus. Cram
said the recycling bin in his fraternity is
placed directly next to the trash can.

Kahn emphasizes the need to use
these resources out of respect for the en-
tire local community.

“Although the cups are usually
picked-up within 24 hours, the residents
of houses and apartment near the fratemi-
ties wake up to an ugly sight,” said Kahn.
“I think it also is interpreted by Lexing-
ton residents as one more example of the
lack of respect that students have for the

  

 

 

.\!‘|“li'.‘”'.A W‘
\,3»lP.‘. H .1; .~

 

 

 
 

I ‘W M, Mr 
K” .

Nw.,R2l‘2l)l3

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

 

Taking the road of

  humility

Speaker addresses the importance of humility at Phi Beta Kappa Induction

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WR lTE R

The best and the brightest of the Classes
of20l2, 2013, and 2014 and alumni were
inducted into the Phi Beta Kappa Society
Gamma Chapter of Virginia on Thursday.
Langboume M. Williams Professor of
American History at the University of Vir-
ginia, Professor Elizabeth R. Varon, gave
the keynote address.

This year the society inducted four se-
niors from lastlyear, 27 current seniors,
22 juniors and two alumni. The seniors
must have “excellent grades” while the ju-
niors must have a cumulative GPA in the
top 2.5% of their class. The alumni must
be alumni of at least 10 years, and must
be “distinguished.” This year the alumni
are faculty members, Professor Theodore
C. DeLaney ’85 and Professor John Holt
Merchant, Jr. ’6l. Three seniors who were
inducted last year were also honored on
Thursday with a “belated induction.”

Varon’s address emphasized the idea of
humility in tackling one’s work.

Varon looked back on all of her work
and realized that she had not done any of
it without help from others. She realized
that some of her best work had become a
reality with the help of many people, in-
cluding family, friends, and strangers. She
said the main lesson that she had learned
was to approach history with a sense of
humility, and that you have to “be humble
in your judgments, because we aren’t per-
fect.”

DeLaney said, “The speech was excel-
lent because it provided ﬁne insight into
the work of the historian that should apply
to scholars who do research in any other
ﬁeld in the arts and sciences.”

Inducted Senior Aleksandr Vandalov
said, “The professor stressed the impor-
tance of keeping a balance between being
proud about your work and staying hum-
ble throughout achievement.”

Vandalov related the speech to his own
life.

“It made me’realize that I have never
done anything ﬂawlessly; there is always
room for improvement,” said Vandalov.
“Also, each accomplishment was never

Phi Beta Kappa Initiates

CLASS OF 2012:
Ann C. Bernacchi
Blair Constance Gillespie
Alexis Wurth Harrison
Jessica Rene Strait

CLASS OF 2013:

Rachel Katherine Alexander
Weining Bai

Derek Arthur George Barisas
Alicia Owen Bishop

Danielle Kay Breidung
Michelle Amanda Coriell
Ainsley Olivia Daigle V
Elizabeth Rebecca Engel

Paige Elizabeth Gance

Michael Lawrence Grimaldi
Wayde Zachary Christian Marsh ‘
Madison Shea McCune ‘
Michael Scott McGuire

Amy Leigh Nizolek

Leslie McFann Peard

Allison Emily Plump

Katharine Mary Price
Nathaniel Wilson Reisinger
Courtney McNeill Ridenhour
Delaney Oliver Rolfe

Kelly Mae Ross

Hannah Juliet Sackfield I

the result ofjust my abilities but relied on
the help ofmy family and peers.”

When asked about the honor of being
inducted into the Phi Beta Kappa Society,
Professor DeLaney said, “I am greatly
honored by my colleagues who have be-
stowed this award on me.”

“There is a humbling and humorous as-
pect to being tapped into Phi Beta Kappa
as an alumni member—that is the only
way that I could possibly have been a
member,” said DeLaney. “My college

Thomas joh n San ford

Qiuchi Sun I

Richard Dixon Sykes
Aleksandr Vladimir Vandalov

Emma Cait von Maur

CLASS OF 2014:
Ebony Lynne Bailey
Em_ily Grace Comer
Hillary Faith Cooper
Erin Gretchen Dengler
Ryan Atticus Doherty
Kathryn Elizabeth Driest
Max Dyer Farrington
Caroline Hodges Gill
Virginia Claire Irligginbotham
Christopher Winthrop Ives Ir.
Jordan Taylor Kearns
Ioseph Liu
Annelise Alissa Madison
Olivier Mahame
Julia Elizabeth Murray
Karen Arlene Roth
Andrew Michael Seredinski
Eric Matthew Shuman
Lorraine Marie Alice Simonis
Haley Elizabeth Smith
Jake Elijah Struebing
Thomas Christopher Wolff

grades were not shabby, but they were not
Phi Beta Kappa level.”

“I am very honored to have been induct-
ed into Phi Beta Kappa,” said Vandalov.
“I know this is a very prestigious award.
lt’s something l’ll be able to carry with me
for the rest of my life.”

Julie Campbell, President of the Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of the society, hon-
ored the new initiates by stating that they
are “those who have truly excelled in the
pursuit of knowledge.”

Under the microscope

W&L is new provost, Daniel A. Wubah, highlights his plans for change

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

Virginia Tech deputy provost Daniel A.
Wubah has been named provost at Wash-
ington & Lee University.

Wubah will take over as provost in July
once he leaves his position as deputy pro-
vost of undergraduate education at Virgin-
ia Tech. He said he is excited to move to
Lexington with his family.

“I am looking forward to listening to the
W&L community and learning about the
culture and priorities of the institution,”
Wubah said. “Working with the faculty,
students and staff to advance the institu-
tion’s mission is high on my list.”

One of Wubah’s ﬁrst priorities at W&L is
to get to know students and faculty so that
he can begin to understand their needs.

A

Dr. Daniel A. Wubah, the soon-to-be provost.

“Assembling that information will help
me to decide what we can do collectively
to enhance the academic experience of our
students by supporting our faculty in their

scholarly pursuits,” he said.
Wubah said that from this information.

website to understand W&L’s culture.
“The commitment of the faculty, the

“F or now, I think enrollment management in the

form of providing resources to support the distribu-

tion of students in various majors is an area that

1

needs attention. ’

DANIEL A. WUBAH, W&L Provost

he hopes to generate new programs and
activities that effectively satisfy students
and faculty.

In addition to im-
proving academic
programs, Wubah
said he is eager to
be involved with
W&L’s strategic
plan.

Wubah said he
believes that enroll-
ment management
will be one of the
biggest challenges
he plans to address
as provost.

“For now, I think
enrollment manage-
ment in the form of
providing resources
to support the distri-
bution of students in
various majors is an
area that needs atten-
tion,” he said.

_ _ Wubah was one of
I  several candidates
whom a W&L com-
mittee contacted
throughout the past year for the position.
He said that once the search committee
reached out to him, he began talking to
colleagues and looking over the school

high intellect of the students, the outstand-
ing quality of academic programs, the
dedication of the staff, the strong loyalty
of the alumni and the Honor code are a
few characteristics to which I was drawn,”
Wubah said.

Wubah added that W&L President Ken-
neth Ruscio’s vision for W&L aligned
with his own beliefs and played a signiﬁ-
cant role in his decision to accept the offer.

In addition to serving as Virginia Tech’s
deputy provost, Wubah is a microbiolo-
gist and botanist. He said that he hopes to
teach courses in microbiology once he has
settled into his role as provost.

“I will take advantage of any opportu-
nity in the future to team teach a course,
especially one that will involve hands—on
experiences,” he said.

Wubah said he is excited to have an im- _

pact on the future of W&L.

“I am looking forward to engaging stu-
dents and faculty in intellectual discus-
sions that will shape the future of W&L
in my role as the chief academic ofﬁcer,”
Wubah said. *

Ruscio reiterated how passionate Wubah
is about undergraduate education.

“Daniel is deeply committed to under-
graduate education, which is why, at this
stage in his career, he wants to be at a
place where undergraduate education is a
priority,” Ruscio said.

By Hannah Howard
sr/arr wmrsn

New Pope announced I

The newest head of the Catholic Church was elected on Wednesday. Pope .

Francis is not only the ﬁrst to come from Latin America, but also the ﬁrst from
the Jesuit order. A day after taking the reins, he warned the cardinals that with-
out a serious and extensive renewal the Church would end up as little more than
a “compassionate NGO.” His election brings with it potential changes for a
Church in the midst of scandal.

EU collaborates on Eurozone
Econom

EU leaders met in russels on Thursday to discuss the current economic state
and options for boosting the Eurozone economy.’ French and Italian leaders ar-
gued for increased spending to aid growth, while German representatives pushed
for strict austerity measures. Thousands of people met outside the meeting to
protest the proposed austerity measures.

Afghanistan sporting match
attacked

Suicide bombers attacked a sporting match in Northern Afghanistan on
Wednesday. It is possible that the terrorists were targeting high proﬁle members
of the crowd. The district police chief was one of the wounded. Among the dead
was the family of a Parliament member. At least eight others were pronounced
dead. No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.

Anti-government protests
mark anniversary

Thursday marked the second anniversary of Saudi intervention in Bahrain.
The day consisted largely of riots by anti-government protesters. The demon-
strations proved that the opposition has not died since Saudi troops quelled un-
rest two years ago. Rioters threw ﬁrebombs at police in what were the worst of
the riots in weeks.

Corruption destroys crops in
Myanmar

Corrupt businessmen destroyed Myanmar farmers’ crops when they convinced
the government to cut of water supplies. The businessmen are using their ties
with ofﬁcials to steal the farmers’ land. Formerly, farmers faced violence if they
spoke out. But with the establishment of a more civilian-based government, they
are now comfortable protesting the thefts. A commission recently came together
to investigate the situation and stop the land grabbers.

CITES environmental
convention comes to close

A two-week conference of the Convention on International Trade in Endan-
gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) came to a close on Thursday.
People from 178 countries traveled to Bangkok to discuss various environmental
issues. The conference marked a few landmark decisions: Thailand agreed to
end its domestic ivory market; trade of turtles and tortoises was limited; and an
agreement was reached to restrict commercial shark trade.

Baghdad witnesses series of
bombs

A series of bombs went off in Baghdad on Thursday. Oﬂicials say that the
three car bombs and one suicide attack were coordinated near government build-
ings including offices, foreign embassies, and the house of the Justice Ministry.
At least 24 were killed and another 50 were wounded.

Protesting unemployment in
Algeria

Ten thousand people gathered in Ouargla, Algeria on Thursday to protest un-
employment and government behavior. The demonstrators stood in the square
and chanted, “the people want the downfall of corruption.” Although Algeria
has strong markets in natural resources, the people‘~do no beneﬁt from the wealth.
The protesters claimed that the government was preventing development in the,
central and south regions of the country. Although the groups refused to dis-
perse, no one was arrested.

Sexual violence on rise in
Democratic Republic of Congo

Information released by human rights groups and the UN on Friday stated that
rape and other acts of sexual violence are on the rise in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo. This comes after a statement by UN officials earlier in the month
that they would stop supporting Congo troops if the rapes did not stop. Armed
troops in the DRC often use sexual violence as a tool of war as shown by at least
126 rapes that occurred in the wake of a ﬂeeing oﬂensive.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

rom  editors

At the end of the aisle in Lee Cha-
pel. there is a pedestal with two docu-
ments. One is a large bound book with
thousands of names written in black ink.
The other is a tiny booklet with ‘a white
cover. You are about to add your name
to decades of students before you. Did
you stop to think before you signed‘?

The White Book is W&L‘s hard copy
ofthe procedures and statements encom-
passed by our Honor System. When we
sign the White Book [and since we are
a private University], we sign away our
First Amendment rights. For the most
part, there is no conﬁicting interest be-
tween the two. , I

Then there’s_the Student Body Hear-
ing.

When someone is accused of an hon-
or violation, the White Book grants the

right to a closed and conﬁdential trial. If ..

a student is found guilty in this trial, he
or she has the ability to appeal it in an
open Student Body Hearing. The White

Unfortunately for the Ring-tum Phi staff,
the clause severely limits our ability to
cover the Hearing.

And that concerns us.

We strive to dig deeply into issues
that affect the school community and
provide accurate coverage of the impor-
tant news on campus. In our opinion, the
facts of. a Student Body Hearing are the
news. As such, they should be shared
with the W&L community.

' Aside from the facts, we were told by
the Executive Committee and the Stu-
dent Body Hearing Chair that we could
not publish any statements from the ac-
cused in an article about W&L during an
open hearing. We were told that there
would be no discussion after they made
the decision, one made without consult-
ing us.

We were prohibited from practicing

- print. 'Social

-speak: we have an ethical duty to report
both sides of an issue and any accused
persons have a right to defend their sto-

ry]. As more ofa pressure point, they in- ’

sisted that we sign a press release listing
the changes to our agreement.

This is not to say that wedo not ap-
preciate the flow ofdialogue between our
organizations or the strides they made to
allow us to have a press box. We also
understand that as W&L students, we
signed some of our rights away in order
to gain access to the Honor System — a
system we greatly appreciate.

But we have to stop ignoring the
technology that is glaring us in the face.
When the White Book was drafted, mul-
timedia communication was limited ‘
to television, radio. and ‘ S

the ethical principles of accuracy and , . '

right-of-reply [translation
from journalism . ~

media is not going to disappear, and it
seems naive to trust that students of
W&L will not gossip about hearings,
Instead of allowing rumors to spread,
like wildﬁre, is it not better to allow
someone to spread the truth? As time
passes it will become harder and harder
to police rumors and murmuring, and,it
will be equally hard to sort out the facts.
We are appealing to the entire student
body, as advocates of transparency and
free speech. It is time for the student
press to be able to report all of the news,
and remain a beacon of truth and inde-

pendence. '

it is time to update the White Book.

-Neil &Julianna

News Editor &
Editor in Chief

Book states: “No information about the
Student Body Hearing is allowed outside
the Washington and Lee -
C ommunity.”

update

. In our Feb. I 1, 2013 issue we ran a story that PiKA was suspended
from campus. One of the stipulations for Pi Kappa/Ilpha returning
— to campus next fall is an apology to the student body.

gezét/d cuf LEE lll

“Hands Downthe Tastiest Truckstop in America”

Dear Washington and Lee community, - The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

A decision handed down by the IFC has suspended the Pi Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha on
Washington and Lee's campus. We are deeply saddened by this outcome, as we have en-
deavored to be good members of our college community since our colonization in 1896.
Our policy violations, as adjudged by the IFC, were endangering our new members as a re-
sult of having insufficient leadership and oversight within our house to be able to conduct

. our new member education program responsibly. For this, we as a fraternity would like to
apologize to those we have hurt. We do not take this suspension lightlyand are undertal<—
ing an evaluation of our pledge education process to ensure it conforms to Washington
and Lee's new member education regulations.

The following words are the Pi Kappa Alpha Preamble:

”For the establishment of friendship on a ﬁrmer and more lasting basis, for the promo-
tion of brotherly love and kind feeling, for the mutual beneﬁt and advancement of the
interests of those with whom we sympathize and deem worthy of our regard, we have
resolved to form a fraternity, believing that, thus we can most successfully accomplish
our object.”

This statement has been our guide for how we conduct ourselves as brothers of our
fraternity. It states that the bonds of fraternity run deeper than mere friendship, that we
are a community based on common interest, and that our bond as brothers is what allows
us to become greater than the sum of our parts.

We afﬁrm that the bonds of brotherhood we share as a house run deep, for our associa-
tion is life—long and our higher duties are to serve equally faith, family, community, alma
mater, and Fraternity. Pi Kappa Alpha will continue to be an instrument of good in the
university community by participating in philanthropy and continually aspiring to better , . 
ourselves as men. Our suspension will end after the current academic year and we will   _
return to campus next fall without restriction if the chapter meets the requirements set ‘if  Twmer @berkysf°°d
out by the IFC and the National organization, which we intend to do. We regret that our
. actions have resulted in our suspension and apologize again to those we have hurt.

—The Brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha ~

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday — Friday 6 -am — 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am — 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm — 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am — 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm — 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450
540-463-3478
wvvw.|eehi.com See our menu online

 Find us on Face book

 

 

 

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

 

DO YOU LOVE W&L?

CONSIDER KATHEKON
What is Kathekon?

Kathekon comes from a Greek phrase meaning: “to
serve.” It is W&L’s ‘student alumni’ organization.
The juniors and seniors of Kathekon connect with
top administrators, help Alumni Affairs with campus
events, stay ‘involved as alumni after graduation, and
have opportunities to network with alumni.

How does it work? If you arecselected,
next year you Will:

[I Attend some informal and short meetings to learn
about W&L from senior university officials.

I] Help lead the Senior Class Gift Project to support the
W&L Annual Fund.

I] Provide reliable and valuable hands—on assistance
to Alumni Affairs during large alumni reunions on
campus.

I] Understand, embrace, and promote the Speaking
Tradition.

El Be a leader of “Philanthropy Day,” when students

_ thank our alumni donors. 4

I] Assist with the “100 Days” party for seniors, and

Senior Night at Liberty Hall Ruins.

Membership Process:

Membership ‘is by application only, limited to rising
juniors and seniors in goodacademic and general
standing. Alumni Affairs seeks a diverse group of
students who have a passion for W&L and wish to
deepen their connection with the University. Alumni
Affairs staff and current Kathekon members will
conduct interviews between April 1 and April 3 with

those chosen as ﬁnalists.
Please send your resume and a brief statement of
why you are interested to Mary Webster, mwebster@

wlu.edu by March 25th.

 

WASHINGTON A\'D LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO
VICTORIA COATES
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RANDY KARLSON
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
ANDREA OWEN
JOSH WHITE

DAVID THOMAS
PAQUI TOSCANO

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

It’s just time...

Should the Republican Party

By David Thomas
G U EST w R IT E R

The Republican Party and marriage
equality have not had the best relationship
in the past. This is understandably so as
we are the party of traditional values and
strong religious inﬂuences. At the same
time, we are the party of individual liberty,
small government, and religious freedom.
We recognize each person’s rights to enjoy
their liberties and make the choices that are
best for them and their family. It is in keep-
ing with these traditions that I believe the
Republican Party should support marriage
equality among all states and is the reason I
support gay marriage.

In the eyes of the government, marriage
is a contract in which the individuals share
in an economic and cultural relationship.
In the eyes of the church, marriage is a
commitment before God; a commitment I
believe is precious and sacred. The govern-
ment cannot tell the Pope what a marriage
before God is any more than the Pope can
tell the government how to run Congress.
The two are separate, each with their own
View on the operations of the other but
without the ability to control results. The
separation is key to our ability to enjoy the
unique religious freedoms we have. Re-
publicans champion these ideas and should
champion gay marriage as well.

Marriage is a contract that in all states
heterosexual couples can engage in. Giv-
ing the ability for some states to grant this
right to form a contract to both heterosexual
and homosexual couples while not enforc-
ing the recognition of that contract in all
states, is not equality _under the law. Re-
publicans believe in state rights and sup-
ported policies that allow states to choose
marriage requirements. The right of a state
to choose marriage policy, however, does
not bypass the Constitutional protection

 

to equality under the law as guaranteed
by the 14th Amendment. This protection
to be considered equal members of society
is paramount in a free society Republicans
want our nation to be.

Ultimately, the support of gay marriage
aligns with Republican values. The ideals
of limited government, individual liberty,
and freedom of religion are both reasons to

2"

support marriage rights in every state?

support gay marriage and fundamentals of
the Republican Party. I support gay mar-
riage because it is just and the Republican
Party should support gay marriage because
it aligns with their values. Ultimately
though, America should have marriage
equality because it isjust time.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Behind the scenes

For Several months the CRC has been working to update the White Book

By Paqui Toscano
GU EST WRITER

Since soon after undergraduate reading
days in October, the Student Body Constitu-
tional Review Committee has been meeting
and working on revisions to the Washington
and Lee Student Body Constitution. After
ﬁve months of meeting, the Constitution
has become more than just a document for
us; it has become more than just a collec-
tion of words that few people know about
and even fewer people have read. In short,
we have a vision for what the Constitution
is and can be, and we would like to share
that vision with you.

As President Woodrow Wilson once said,
“the Constitution of the United States is not
a mere lawyers’ document: it is a vehicle
of life, and its spirit is always the spirit of
the age.” Unequivocally, we feel the same
way about the W&L Constitution; likewise,
each and every student should indeed care
greatly about the Student Body Constitu-
tion because it preserves the framework of
the nearly-autonomous student government
from which every student beneﬁts.

Perhaps most obviously, the CRC’s revi-
sions to the preamble encapsulate this pivot-
al role of the Student Body Constitution by
reading that the Constitution is “the founda-
tion of [Washington and Lee’s] government
by providing the overarching framework
for its maintenance. Every student body
member shall adhere to these provisions
and applicable University policy.”

' With this goal in mind, the CRC
launched a campaign to make the Consti-
tution truly reﬁect the student-govemment
scheme at Washington and Lee. We updat-

ed, revised, and expanded certain aspects of
it, for instance, to fully reflect the breadth of
the student govemment’s partitioned nature
on this campus. Probably the'best example
showcasing these types of revisions is the
Article on the Judicial Branch, which spe-
ciﬁcally outlines the roles ofthe Executive
Committee (EC)~in itsjudicial capacity—
the Student Judicial Council (SIC), the Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board (SFHB), and
the University Board ofAppeals (UBA).‘

Although a copious amount of the work
we did—such as adding and explaining the
different, but sometimes concurrent, juris-
dictions of these fourjudicial panels—was
very detail driven, the CRC saw it as imper-
ative to ﬁnish our year’s work with a Con-
stitution that truly is the overarching design
for student government at Washington and
Lee. lndisputably, many of us take that sys-
tem for granted, but we wouldn’t be able to
do that ifthe Constitution did explicitly and
lucidly outline the role of each student gov-
ernment organization.

Because the Student Body Constitution
is a document drafted and revised in the in-
terest of the student body to preserve a rule

of student governance that protects every

student, the CRC added an absolutely cru-
cial Student Rights article, which includes
the following essential rights: (1) the right
to due process pursuant to the guidelines
and rules set forth by the University, this
Constitution, and the White Book ifaccused
of misconduct that falls under the jurisdic-
tion ofthe SJC, SFHB, or EC; (2) the right
to at least one honor advocate if accused of

misconduct that falls under the jurisdiction
of the SJC, SFHB, or EC; (3) the right to
appeal an EC decision to the Student Body
and to appeal a SJC or SFHB decision to
the UBA; (4) the right to vote in Student
Body elections and all matters voted on by
the Student Body, even if studying abroad;
(5) the right to appear before student gov-
erning bodies with any matter of interest or
concern.

We are not pursuing this amendment out
of the belief that current student g0vem-

Inent ofﬁcials abuse their power; rather, our‘

motivation in adding this to the Constitu-
tion involves our responsibility to the stu-
dent body to ensure that each student, now
and in the future, has explicitly guaranteed
rights.

I cannot emphasize enough that the
entire CRC feels strongly about all of our
amendments. We would love to talk to you
about these changes and more. Be sure to
vote March 26-28. If you’re still on the
edge about a certain amendment or want
to know more, please contact us. We have
spent a lot of time on these amendments
and see each one as worth of your approval.
The future of the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Student Body Constitution rests in
your hands.

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

Raiders and

srat cats and

Genghis, oh my!

The worst weekfor them, the best week for us. The last

week of pledgeship always creates a buzz on campus,

as the pledges from Phi Kappa Psi parade around in

anything from trafﬁc cop attire to the classic banana
and gorilla. Here 3' a look at our top 8.

‘;',“U?R(?}GGH!”

1 Explain your task for the week. , . A ' ~ I

_I am the warlord Genghis Khan and I must conquer‘
‘ all of Lexington. I like to pillage arid plunder, and _ ' 
. strike fear in the hearts of all students. A V I 

How much have you pillaged thus far? . ’
Three SSA blocks, a trashcan, a bench, a box of

“cheese puffs, one cigarette ash stand, a glittery,neck-
lace and a water bottle. a

.. VWhatis yourfavorite thing about your character? /
 Fighting or tackling people along with screaming.

‘Best reaction from abystander? ~ gt ‘

. A D-Hall lady told me, “Don’t do that .agai,ri,r.it7S, f in ii
iscaring people.” I I I    _,:. .;.

“Thereis only one team in football that is not'worth- .
.. less.” I - »

Explain your task for the week. V
I dress up like an angry Oakland Raiders fan and walk
- around being really mean to people in true Oak-

style. «

Just how good are the Oakland Raid-

ers?  _ I
_ Absolutely fantastic. They are better
‘  than every other team, hands down.

Why don ’t they win every game?
They do. They’ve never lost.

What would you say to some-
one who thinks the Raiders
stink? A ‘ ’

I would punch them in the
face. Enough said.

Who is your Favorite Oak- I A
land Raiders player? I’
All of them. Also the one that
throws the football.

Have you gotten into any

ﬁghts recently? ,

Five minutes ago, some dude

said the Ravens were the best
team so I punched him in the
face.

0 o -
Mitchell Brlster
t“‘Yoga is not just exercise; it is the meaning oftirue love.” I

2’ Explain your task for the week. A

:I teach yoga classes throughout the day, and
open the hearts and minds of students as I do it.
Yoga is my life. '

.....What makes yoga so great, in your opinion‘? ,
 There is nothing better’ than to feel the warm air _

A’i‘i:'W'l1at yoga pose is your favorite? .  ' T-_   s  _ ~ 
“Either Warrior Oneor Warrior Two,‘-anything that tones '
the glutes, really. » ' i I .

How comfortable are those yoga pants‘? ‘
A;They feel so wonderful, like marshmallow fairies;



':--‘caress the smooth curves of the body while you r’'' -
gracefully ﬂow from one pose to the next. a R —

arts&life

Matt Kiser .

“Look both ways before crossing...”

H Explain your task for the week." _
I help make Washington and Lee safe by directing trafﬁc during high-risk,
high-traffic times outside the Commons.

4 How many accidents would you guess you have prevented so far?
l’_robably hundreds, it’s a very dangerous intersection. Probably about four
ives. .« -

How often do you blow your whistle?
Whenever necessary. About 300 times a minute. At about 150 ‘decibels.

Is law enﬁorcement in your" future?
I think it’s ‘the duty of every citizen to enforce the law. So yeah.

Anything you don ’t like about your job?
’ Myshorts are too long.

KieranMcQuilkin ’ Smtlat

“Shout outta my srat ladies, don’t leave meow-t to dry!”

Explain your task for the week. a
I hang out behind the sorority houses with all the other cats and do feline
things. .

— How have you been treated by the girls living in the soror— ”
ity houses? ; I V
Sorority girls have treated me very well. They don’t seem g
bothered by an overgrown cat man stealing boxes or chas- 33> '

ing birds.

Have you caught any mice?

I haven’t caught any rnicebut I did befriend a
banana. I also caught about 3 pieces of plastic
that didn’t see me sneaking up on them. Stupid
plastic. ,

How many bowls of milk have you lapped so
far this week?
Two bowls of milk, two of hot chocolate
~ (hopefully made with extra milk)

Favorite part about-being a cat?

Well, I can say my favorite part is that until now,
meowing. at girls hasn’t worked out for me, but this week
its worked every time! I’d also like to send out a warning -
that cleartshiny stuff that’s-laying on the ground near the ,
trash in a bunch of pieces? Very sharp. Not for play— A
mg. ,

“It’s hard to resist all the tasty people walking by.” -4

Explain your task for the week. .

I am an alligator. When I’m not sunbathing to recharge my body, I
get my feed on and stalk my prey throughout campus. My favorite
food is tour groups. .

‘How many students have you consumed this week so far?

At least ﬁve or six people, a little below average. Happy Carlock was the most tasty.

Where is the best place to sunbathe? I
Right in front of the door to the Commons, also _because food is only a couple wiggles away. The pillars all
across campus make for great stalkingplaces. When it’s really cold, I hang out in the library. .

  Nate Breitenfeldt Mist

“My drawings come from my soul; I don’t even have to look at the subject.”
 _ Explain your task for the week.
,_ I offer free caricature drawings to anyone on campus.

"‘ Have you had professional artistic training?
No, for me my skill just comes naturally. Nature versus nurture, you know.

_: ._ Best comment from someone you drew:
V:;,:‘o ‘‘I am speechless,” or “breathtaking”... “the next Van Gogh.”

'i Any advice for aspiring artists?

. Practice makes perfect, so keep practicing. Don’t listen towhat other people say as
5»  long as you like your art. If they don’t like it, say it’s abstract. Cubism is way too hard;
 don’t do it.

Oliver Nettre  

“The poison ivy was a mistake.”

Explain your task for the week. .. -
I dress“ up in a ghillie suit, and instead of shooting people like a sniper
"would, I. just scare people. One girl dropped her coffee this morning.

Do you wear the suit in class? i V 1’ _ . V
Yes, but it is difﬁcultto see out of. It’s also ‘distracting when bugs ' '
crawl out of it onto kids next to me.

Do you feel one with the foliage acrosswcampus? ‘ ,,,  A A“ ' .; A I
Deﬁnitely. It gives me an opportunity to disappear, like going to . wt‘  V _  _. _.
astate school._,pg  “ p U A ' .  .  - V’ g ff ‘__  ’ A

What is your strategy for scaring people? , .1: 
Well, most people don’t notice me, so I normally just reach out and ‘

grab their leg or something. The key is to ﬁnd a spot where the path

forces people close to a bush. The best targets are sorority girls tex-

ting. , . ' -

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

 

Shaving for Saint Baldricks

W&L is very own Veronica Durando will shave her head for childhood cancer research

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

Not many Washington and Lee women
have the guts to shave their heads. All of
it. Hair, completely gone. Sounds terri-
fying just reading the words, doesn’t it?
Yet ﬁrst-year Veronica Durando has the
courage to do it. On April 13, at Rock-
bridge County High School, she will.
completely shave her head if enough
donations are made. The funds donated
will go to Saint Baldrick’s. Foundation,
an organization dedicated to supporting
childhood cancer research.

“I have decided to dive into the deep
end by donating all of my hair and rais-
ing as much support as I can... having
my head shaved will be a reminder for
what is really important,” Durando said,
putting it in perspective.

Apparently everyone agrees that a

-  ii '5

St. BaIdrick’s Foundation, ntionalorgnization, is dedicated
to promoting childhood cancer research.

There,C|i

. ..|\

 Josh White  ‘
5,’?-A,!=;l=; WRITER :4 

  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  

 

.  Last Friday, I climbed outdoors for the
_~ ﬁrst time this year at Goshen Pass, VA.
 I had been waiting eagerly for some
.favorable. weather to line up with a
0 free weekend, while keeping myself in
shape at the closest, climbing gym, Rise
' 7 Up, in'._ri‘eé1rl1y‘I;ynchburg. Fortunately,

I‘didij’.t"ha'xie.to wait long, because the

 on Friday was a comfortable
ﬂégrees with, few clouds in sight.
»  climbing, warmer weather is
’ usually preferred because rocks tend to

stay close to air temperature, and cold
‘ rocks are no fun to hold. However,
65 degrees did the job, so cold rocks
weren’ta‘problem.

  

Goshen Pass, for those unfortunate
few who have not yet been there, is a
breathtakingly beautiful area that pro-
vides a variety of options for outdoor
 recreation, ranging from angling to
0' kayaking, hiking to swimming, and of
course, rock climbing.

Goshen is actually a vague reference
to the entire area of Goshen where
. many established areas for climbing are
.'_ located. Where we were, possibly the
3 most accessible area, was the Maury
River Wall. The Maury River Wall is
a humble cliff of about 20 routes. The
routes range in rating from a 5.2 (basi-

. 7”...

BE BRAVEKGET BALD.

bald head will make a bold statement.
It seems like the whole school is sup-
porting her, not to mention her friends
and family from across the country. If
you are Facebook friends with her, you
can’t miss the Saint Baldrick’s posts.
Originally, her donation goal was $500,
but people were so enthusiastic that she
upped the stakes and her new goal is
$750. It seems like Durando’s motto
these days is “go big or go home.”
Saint Baldrick’s isn’t Durando’s ﬁrst
experience with cancer research fund-
raising; she has previously participated
in Relay for Life and also donated 9
inches ofher hair to Locks of Love. Her
reason for involvement stems from the
fact that, like most of us, she has watched
the effects of cancer on a loved one. Her

grandmother passed away from pancre-
atic cancer and her high school lacrosse
coach beat breast cancer.

“It is through witnessing their will to
survive and appreciation for their strug-
gle that got me to play a more active role
in promoting support and awareness for
those who suffer from the disease,” stat-
ed Durando.

She is certainly spreading awareness
and gaining support. Her courageous
act is getting plenty of attention, but
she knows shaving her head is nothing
compared to the experience of cancer
patients. They have the real courage.

“I could not imagine the mental and
physical strength it must take to ﬁght
and overcome cancer,” said Durando.‘
“Learning about what these people,

,2 .

  

  
    

   

ndo strives to spread awarenesst
cer research.

children no less, must endure to ﬁght
a cancer they could not have prevented
or foreseen really helps me put things
into perspective. Everyone deserves the
same right to a good life and participat-
ing in this event is a small way that I can
help in their struggle against this wicked
disease.”

There are tons of ways to help in the
ﬁght against cancer: shaving your own
head, going to the Saint Baldrick’s
event on April 13, or simply telling your
friends! If you want to help Durando
reach her fundraising goal, check out her
participation website, www.stbaldricks.
org/particinants/mypage/61 9 783/2013.

   

{ .

  
  
   
 

<1 I To get to the Maury River Wall drive to
. Goshen Pass and take the gravel road

cally scrambling up a steep slope) to a
brutal 5.l0 that could give most climb-
ers a run for their money. This range of
difﬁculty makes this a friendly area for
climbers of almost all abilities.

We set up top ropes (the most com-
mon andsafest way to climb) on two
routes: “Bicycle Grip,” a 5.7 climb
named for a unique hold near the start,
and “Vacuum,” a 5.6 wall with mul-
tiple lines of ascent. Both routes were
unique and challenging, offering amaz-
ing views of the gushing Maury River
below and the proud mountains all
around, once summited.

  

Regardless of the difﬁculty rating of
the wall, it is always easy to get an ex-
tensiveiworkout from climbing. By the
time we were ﬁnished, my arms were
pumped and my hands thoroughly rug-
ged. The fresh air of the Appalachian
Mountains and the soundtrack of the
river running below are an exercise of
the spirit as much as the wall is an ex-
ercise ofthe body.

What has and always will be the best
part about climbing, of course, is the
camaraderie, the quality time spent out-
side with friends doing something fun
and exciting, challenging and reward-

bed:T’héf    

"I-of , 
"*‘>*r:«'.-./I-:. " 7 . 
Directions:

 and walk along the Maury for _about

      
    

  

on the right to the footbridge. Once
across the bridge turn directly right 

    
     
     
 

300_vards and you will be at the cl:'rrib-
ing area.

  
    
 
 
 
 
  
  

     
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

ing. If you ﬁnd yourself getting tired
of the gym, yearning for the outdoors,
or simply wanting to have a good time
with friends, go climbing. Just remem-
ber that safety should always be the
ﬁrst priority. Get outside and enjoy the
nice weather!

Climbing gear is available through ”
the Outing Club for experienced climb- I
ers. If you would like to climb but
don’t know yet how to do so safely,
contact the Outing Club today!

und

..

world in

Dolls, Lolz
and Life: No
Chi|d’s Pla‘

Davidson is

dolls are creepy
insofar that they
eerily resemble
ourselves.

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

“Make Up,” an exhibition of
paintings and sculptures by Sta-
cey Davidson, was on view at
Washington and Lee’s Stan-
iar Gallery from Feb. 13 to
March 15. The artist gave a
public lecture at a closing reception for the
exhibit in Wilson’s Concert Hall on March
13 at 5:30 pm.

Staniar Gallery featured an exhibition of
paintings, sculpture, and works on paper by
Davidson. Davidson’s work reﬂects her in-
terest in the exploration of character and per-
sonal emotion, concerns that reveal them-
selves in her cast ofthree-dimensional dolls
which are portrayed in gouache and oil.

Trained as a painter, Stacey Davidson be-
gan to create dolls in 1997 to bring her paint-
ing to new and unseen territory. After a peri-
od of intense experimentation using the doll
form as a sculptural concept, Davidson re-
turned to painting in 2006. Having learned
how to sculpt, make wigs and costumes by
hand, the artist began asking how the dolls
might best be used within the context of her
two-dimensional work.

Often anatomically incorrect and with
vacant expressions, the dolls ultimately be-
came vehicles or actors for further explora-
tion with the medium of painting. Always
testing the media with which she works,
handmade dolls such as “Mrs. B,” “Rose,”
and “Lorrine” were used as points of de-
parture to investigate personal narratives
in gouache and oil. The results are at times
menacing and at others entrancing, but al-
ways with the aim “to expose the psychic
pressures and histories we all carry.”

In this exhibit, the poignancy of David-
son’s paintings is strengthened by the pres-
ence of the characters depicted. Dolls such
as “Rose” and “Mrs. B” are featured along-
side two-dimensional portraits that illumi-
nate various aspects of the dolls’ person-
alities. In an oil on paper work Rose, blue,
2007 (29 7/8 x 22 5/8 inches), “Rose” is de-
picted in a blue dress holding paintbrushes.

The two-dimensional medium is also used
to establish relationships between the dolls.
This can be seen in the gouache on paper
work Rose, Knecht Ruprecht, 2008 (20 1/8

v x 25 5/8 inches) in which the doll “Rose”
 is now shown with the much smaller doll

“Knecht Ruprecht” under her arm. The con-
trast between the sweet demeanor of “Rose”

" and the menacing features of “Knecht Ru-

precht” (who is known in German folklore
as a violent assistant of Saint Nicholas) ex-
empliﬁes the many facets of human nature

I’ considered in Davidson’s work.

The artist created a sculptural installation
speciﬁcally for the Staniar Gallery, react-
ing to architectural details in the exhibition
space. Davidson’s work is in the collections
of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, the
Weisman Art Museum, and the Cleveland

' Museum ofArt. She is represented by Marl-
v‘ borough Gallery, N.Y.

Davidson received a B.F.A. in painting
from the Maryland Institute, College of Art
(MICA) and an M.F.A. in painting from the
University of Cincinnati. She recently re-
located to Rock Hill, S.C., where she is an
assistant professor of ﬁne arts at Winthrop
University. She previously lived in St. Paul,
Minn., for 14 years as a practicing artist and
teacher.

 
   
  

S80  s. .. how about 3 hours?

Students set SAIL for an evening abroad, ﬁlled with foreign cuisine, exotic performances and colorful costumes

By Athena Cao
STA F F w R I T E R

Ever wanted to go overseas? Last Fri-
day night, the Student Association for
International Leaming:(SAIL) took stu-
dents abroad for the evening, by bring-

' ing the world to the Marketplace. The

20th annual Evening Abroad showcase
not only provided an opportunity for
students to see and hear about other cul-
tures, but also stimulated their taste buds
with delicious foreign dishes.

“lt’s an event that was designed mainly
by the international students to showcase
all of the wonderful cultures, and expe-
riences that our international students
bring to campus,” said International Stu-
dent Advisor Amy Richwine.

When trying a new restaurant for the
ﬁrst time, many people choose to or-
der something ordinary, like burgers or
chicken parrnesan, because it feels safer

to already know what is going into their
mouths. But at Evening Abroad, that’s
not an option.

Korean potato pancakes, rice in a pine-
apple, jambalaya, coconut macaroons,
curry with hard-to-identify ingredients,
sausage spread out on crepes... it truly
took some guts to try these dishes. De-
spite the uncertainty, these foods turned
out to be mind-blowingly delicious.
Freshman Meera Kumar could not agree
more, claiming the jambalaya and coco-
nut macaroons to be her favorites.

According to sophomore Thao Mee
Xiong, a student organizer who was in
charge of the food, all the dishes were
prepared by W&L student volunteers
and Richwine. “We sent out an e-mail
for volunteers, and we got a lot of feed-
back,” Xiong said. “[Sophomore] Cathy

[Wang] made pineapple rice from China,
[Richwine] made the chili-corn muf-
ﬁns, and I made some Korean potato
pancakes, which I hope are really good,
and we just have a little snacks here
and there... so, hopefully a taste of the
world.”

It was also a visual feast for students
who were dressed in costumes represent-
ing different cultures. An international
student from Mongolia, Oyumaa Daich-
inkhuu, wore a traditional Mongolian
dress that she had brought from home.
Alejandro Paniagua and Soﬁ Sequeira,
both from Costa Rica, presented the at-
tire ofmen and women back home. Rich-
wine showed her collection of costumes
from around the world and allowed
students to try them on. According to
Xiong, the willingness and enthusiasm

to try costumes from foreign cultures
showed the openness of W&L students.

Sophomore Lauren Mosely was one of
the students who borrowed a costume
from the collection. “I am wearing an In-
dian costume. [Richwine] had extras and
she let me wear it,” Mosely said. “I am
actually performing as well. A group of
us are doing a song called “Like This”
by a Korean hip-hop group called Won-
der Girls.”

According to Mosley, only one of the

three people in their performance of the -

upbeat Korean song was actually Kore-
an.‘ This demonstrated the wide breadth
of interest in foreign culture. In addition
to her rendition of “Like This,” Mosely
also performed a hip-hop dance.
Throughout the night, many students
presented examples of foreign folk art,

and three students who recently came
back from studying abroad shared their
stories. Kumar sang the Indian song,
“Jhoolatha Radha,” that she was named
after. Senior Kendre Barnes, who just
came back from Spain, presented Se-
villanas folk dance and ﬂamenco while
wearing a bright red and white Flamenco
dress. ~

Daichinkhuu enjoyed watching the
performances. “I really liked the cul-
tural dances that a lot of W&L students
performed, including [freshman] Karen
Villarroel’s Bolivian parade dance, the
ﬂamenco dance and the Korean hip-hop
dance,” Daichinkhuu said. “[Now] I am
really inspired to study abroad and make
plans for my future.”

'..
. "1 V.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

W’

{nostalgia}

Through the years FD has done some
0 pretty crazy and really awesome
things. Here 3 a look back at the past

  (907

The  Dress was held,
Q and completelyfuggded by, librarian
Annie I/y,Vlzz'te,,‘.;_.y;;Thye budget was $42.

are-W

Fancy Dress ball was held in a
skating rink.

 

Guests at a Playboy-themed cocktail
party submitted photos of their dates
for a bunny contest. Hugh Hgner

announced the winner via p one
during the party.

(3969

A rented llama
escaped from
3 the ball during
“Carnival: A
night in Rio. ”

7

Security escorted a camel from
the premises after it angrily spit
on guests during “Magical Carpet
Ride.” ..

  
 

 

  
 

  
 
       

Facing the

Fancy Dress Date—Dash got you down.

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND Ll‘FE EDITOR

lt’s ofﬁcial: Fancy Dress is exactly 5 days, 19 hours, 45 minutes, and 8
seconds away (but who’s counting, anyway?). If you have an FD date already,
congratulations! Don’t have one yet and still want one? No worries - you’re
not alone. Meet Georgiana, a typical W&L girl. Let’s take a look at her week.

Stage 1: Denial {Monday}

 
 

 Dateless for FD

v.- "

Si:-; lonlrs ?éll'i.E rinthirig's happening ll'll5 weekend Especially "int. -:»n
Salli!-day night tenpe, s.til|::ari‘lthinli tit anytriin-g; V’?.if.ill';‘ll'lil'ii'.l>.:; '4,»

Stage 2:Anger {Tuesday}

 

Dateless for FD  _— ‘
WHY HAS NO DNE ASKED ME TC: FD’?lll i hate boys Officiatly
canceling my -dress urrser Take in-at, Rent rm-. Rui1'.«.«‘3-,i'l

igi i;.;:lg:;;it:_: up-,.::,; _ii;ln::-_; :- rial‘-i;-.i ii;e_-.

Stage 3: Bargaining {Wednesday}

  

 Dateless tor FD

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

With Homecoming Weekend,
Christmas Weekend, fraternity for-
mals, sorority formals, Lee Chapel
events, Fancy Dress, the occasional
weekend galaeit doesn’t come as
a surprise that every girl at W&L
has plenty of cocktail and black tie
dresses gathering dust in the back
of her closet. With this in mind,
the W&L Ladies Club is hosting a
dress drive, allowing W&L students
to make some much needed room
in their closets and become “Fairy
Glam Mothers” for the young girls
of Rockbridge County.

The brainchild of senior Nataki
Hemmings, Co-Chair of the Ladies’
Club, her inspiration for the dress
drive was culled from reading about
DonateMyDress.org, a national net-
work for local dress drives, in issues
of Seventeen Magazine. “I...always
admired the people, some younger
than me, that took the initiative to do
something like this for other girls in
the community,” she said.

Explained Hemmings: “Over

. tee 1S

ll -':li‘iy‘i'Iilﬂ ricirds Ll dale. Yd trivia lo gr: as lrreriris I I'll pay For my
cum ticket. Heizlit %'ll even thri:rw in dinnerl Any lai-;>:=r5't gsifrini; inzrr. an

February break I was ﬂipping
through another issue...and 1 men-
tioned to my mom that with a Fancy
Dress each year, all the formals that
sororities have, and the Mock Con
Gala every four years, W&L could
provide enough dresses to donate to
a graduating high school class!”
After this revelation, she did
some research and presented the idea
to the Student Coordinator of Rock-
bridge High School, Dean Tamara
Futrell, and Ladies’ Club members,
and Fairy Glam Mothers was born.
The dress drive is only the ﬁrst

' part of the Fairy Glam Mothers proj-

ect. The second part will be a “bou-
tique day” on March 30, where the
girls get to come choose their dress-
es. Stated Hemmings:

“The
Fairy
Glam
Mothers’
commit-

   
     
      

working

«Q7
C. ,.

ll

 
  

  
“‘  .:i’“ I 

Stae 4: pression {Thu}  

Dali!!!-5 tor FD

 

Just spent the night crying intnmy pillow hi:-i:l igiiess this is it.
tin an-r": wants me l‘ni |u!?.i going to die  nld rnairi .=«.*;isi‘ii‘«.ylié:rl :-“l':n_ii.=e

Stage 5: Acceptanee{Fiiday}

 

" Y iZ:2iLi:Ci

Dateless for,FD .1  »
Ullttilﬁlllly‘ gating in Fiji st;-iggi ’.'i!h<'J ii.-.=ei'-.i*ii.=i t:e»,s'i Gzil niy i1iess_ nails,
hair‘ rieaiﬁly _.il'3 gt}il"lr‘ie;'i l)l_‘. 33 l_ll3§_€i! -li,'i:.;s;;;i,: \:iiiis,;li:.ji'i:,lrijiiii_l'i~ti;irriir'igli;i

Sunday...tlie momingafter

Dateless for FD .

 

leurigs "ll’llJSl‘l'_t'

So you see, no matter what happens, everything will work out just ﬁne.
Who knows? You might just get a date sometime this week (you mean, there
are actually guys who wait and ask, like, three days before the dance?! that
really happens here?). As Georgiana would say, everything happens for a rea-

Had siinn a great time at l7l"Ji inns at awesnrrie nice, 
iiivriiiilik. arid eiitiugli Liwtrsdiiu: meiiii.iii-L-e llJ l:.ial ii iilelirrii: <3 =‘-'Efi’iW‘

son, and this is no exception. Happy 106th Fancy Dress, everyone!

Abracadabra! Be a fairy {glam}mother

Got cocktail dresses? W&L Ladies Club wants you to donate and make wishes come true

hard to make this day fun and excit-
ing, and realistic to a regular prom
shopping trip; We also have a few
rallies and gifts for the girls.”

All dresses are welcome, includ-
ing formal, bridesmaid, Fancy Dress,
or old prom dresses. Dresses must be
dry-cleaned before being donated.
Collection runs from March 15-29 in
the Commons Living Room.

Stated Hemmings: “I want Fairy
Glam Mothers to ﬂourish even after
my departure from W&L. In a so-
ciety where appearance takes such
precedence, ﬁnding a prom dress can
be one of the most stressful experi-
ences for any girl. A dress drive al-
lows young girls to have the same
experience of ﬁnding that perfect

  

 

3]

 

dress without limiting themselves by ’

location or ﬁnances.”

She added: “I want Fairy Glam
Mothers to be an experience that
these young girls can actually look
back years from now and appreciate,
and maybe donate one of their dress-
es to a dress drive for. other young
girls to beneﬁt from.”

As for those who are still on the
fence and need some extra incen-
tive to donate, take this advice from
the venerable Dean Futrell herself:
“You know the rule—once you get
photographed in it, you can’t wear it
again!”

   

  

  

I and chat with the man known on campus

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

  sports

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

  Baner: a father of Generals’ athletics

Wilson Stadium ’s equipment manager takes immense pride in his work and inspires W&L student-athletes

By Pat McCarron
STAFF WRITER

Tucked underneath the grandstand of
Wilson Field is the ofﬁce of Washington
and Lee’s current equipment manager
Thomas Bane. The window for his_ of-
ﬁce is always open for athletes to stop

simply as Baner.

Baner has held multiple positions of
authority in his more than 41 years at
W&L—from equipment manager at the
old stadium, to security ofﬁcer, and now
back to equipment manager at Wilson
Field. But these titles are not what Ba-
ner is most proud of. He is above all a
father ﬁgure to what he calls his family,
the thousands of students and faculty he
has met in his years at W&L.

Baner grew up in Lexington from his
humble beginnings as a farm boy. His
equipment-managing job is nothing
short of a dream come true for him.

“I grew up here as a farm boy. If you
would have told me then, ‘Baner, one
day you’re going to be the equipment
manager for W&L,’ I would have looked
at you like you were the craziest person
in the world,” Baner said.

He remembers coming to watch Gener-
als football as 2. kid, and has since been
attached to W&L athletics. While he is
not a coach, he remains an inspiration to
various teams on campus by delivering
pre-game speeches.

He particularly recalls his speeches
to the football team, who has won the
ODAC championship twice in the past
three seasons.

“I go in the locker room and Coach
Abell lets me get after those boys. That’s
my family. I preach to them that when
you put that W&L helmet on nobody
likes you. They hate us with a passion
and you know what I tell them‘? I don’t
like them either.” Baner said.

Since the women’s tennis team’s na-
tional championship, Baner'has a key
piece of inspiration that he brings into
locker rooms for his speeches.

Baner on the cover of his wife’s book, FamiIy& Honor

\  A‘

“What an honor it is to work with
‘a national championship tennis team.
Now I have something to take into the
other locker rooms to get the kids ﬁred
up: ‘Come on boys, the girls are na-
tional champions,” Baner said.
Although he says this kiddingly, he
genuinely loves to see W&L teams

‘ ii . win. Two of Baner’s most prized pos-

sessions are the football championship
rings the team presented him with to
thank him for his part in helping the
Generals win two ODAC champion-

 :. ships in the past three seasons.

But Baner does not wait until ath-

-«i.‘ ll letes commit to W&L to impress his
" inﬂuence upon them. One of the ﬁrst

people coaches introduce recruits to is
Baner himself, an honor he does not
take lightly.

Baner sees this as an opportunity to

 convince recruits that W&L is where

"' 1 they belong.

     

“I’ve had a bunch [of recruits] come

4, back this year, and their dads with
‘w them and say, ‘Baner, do you remem-
-~ ber me? I say ‘I remember the face.’

Then they tell me ‘because of you I’m
coming to W&L.’ What an honor that
I have this god-gifted inﬂuence on a
family,” Baner explained.

Although Baner acts as something
like a second coach to W&L athletes,

I he still takes the utmost pride in his
, duties as equipment manager. His of-

ﬁce is organized like no other~uni-
forms folded and hanging with care,
washers running constantly, every jer-
sey, bat, and helmet accounted for. He
cleans and organizes the locker rooms
to make sure he is doing all he can
so that his athletes are ready to go at

game time.

Baner’s only regret is that he cannot
manage the equipment for all teams on
campus. '.

“I’d like to be the equipment man for
all of the students. I think some of them
are missing a little something that I could
give them,” Baner said.

Baner’s life at W&L is captured in a
book entitled “Family and Honor," a
book written by his wife Doris. Within
the pages of this book are the memories
of the many lives Baner has touched over
the years.

After a 1ifetime’s worth of memories
Baner has had at W&L—enough to ﬁll
a bookehe is not willing to call it quits
just yet.

“I know for a fact that I’m staying for
three more years. But I might stay four,
may stay ﬁve. I’m not through yet. I
wish I was a young man, because I know
there’s some high school kids that are
going to come here, and I won’t be here,”
said Baner.

It is notable that Baner’s only regret is

that he wants to continue to expand the '

family he loves so much. With a tear
in his eye, Baner describes his pride for
his school as “the old W&L in me,” and
seeks to interact with as many students
and athletes as he can.

But for now, Baner sits in his ofﬁce over
40 years since he ﬁrst began working at

W&L still the same person, unchanged .

from all of his honors, accolades, and
contributions to the University.

“All the praise that the kids give me
hasn’t changed me one bit. I’m still the
same Baner that came here over 40 "years
ago,” Baner said.

Lax loses close game

W&L falls to Roanoke in double-overtime, but wins big later in the week

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The women’s lacrosse team split their
ODAC match-ups this week when they
suffered a loss in double overtime at
Roanoke on Wednesday, and soundly
defeated Virginia Wesleyan at home on
Saturday.

The loss to Roanoke was another close
one for the women’s lacrosse team who

_ ended the week with a 3-5 (3-1 ODAC)
record overall.

overtime tied up at 12 but were unable to
score in either overtime period, losing in
the last minute of a sudden death situa-

     

r:.‘%'e-2;.» ;
o£J"il"id‘.'-
'.,i‘a"¢I‘i



The Generals went into"

ta‘

game, scoring three quick goals, W&L
was able to come back and keep it close
through regulation. The Generals went
6-6 on clears, but missed several goal
chances by going only 4-13 on free posi-
tion shots. Junior Meade Brewster con-
tinued her dominance on the ﬁeld with
‘three goals and two assists. First-year
Margaret Pascale also netted three goals
for the Generals.

W&L ended the week on a high note
with a win over Virginia Wesleyan at
home on Saturday. Junior Meredith Lavin
started the game off with a free position

      

 _ . . V‘ p .\l.',,,,-

   
 

    
  

   

W&L’s victory qt;/or Virginia Wesleyan 

goaljust over ﬁve minutes into the game.
Virginia Wesleyan was able to keep the
game close through the ﬁrst hall‘, but they
were unable to hold off the Generals in
the second half when W&L scored eight
goals to the Marlins’ two. Junior Marga-
ret Klein had four goals for the Generals,
andjunior Katie Hagen added three.

The Generals return to the ﬁeld on Sat-
urday when they travel to No. 13 Catholic
for an 11:30 a.m. match-up.

 LI
II

 

    

vi ’
K
'5!‘

ii-r, ‘

'...
.. ,, .a
J ‘ "" 7'y

and travel seasons.

W&L graduates.

Job Opening
Undergraduate
Admissions
Counselor

The Washington and Lee Ofﬁce of Undergraduate
Admissions announces an opening for Admissions
Counselor. Responsibilities include managing
a recruitment territory and travel schedule,
conducting group information sessions and
interviews, and evaluating admission applications.
Other duties will be assigned based on the selected
candidate’s background and skills. Evening and
weekend work is expected during the academic
year, especially during peak application reading

A Bachelor’s degree, a valid driver’s license, and the
willingnessto commit to the position for a minimum
of two years are required. Strong communication
and writing skills and demonstrated organizational
abilities are expected. The successful candidate
will be both willing and able to work as part of a
successful admissions team, yet will be capable of
creative self-direction’. Preference will be given to

Interested candidates should apply for the position
through W&L’s Human Resources website (http://
go.wlu.edu/j-obs) no later than noon on March
27, 2013. A W&L Employment Application, a
cover letter, résumé,‘and the names and contact
information of three references are required. EOE.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013

9 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

 

 

ESS

We ’ve helped you with the opening bracket, now ﬁll in the rest!

L

. 13
11 MTSU/STM FT"
3
14
7 CREIGH
10
2 DUKE
15 ALBANY
1 G N2
15

C
8 PITT

9 WI H T
5
12 MIS

 

4 KAN sr
13
5 ARIZ .
u_%l————

, 3 N MEX

. 14 HARV
7 N DAME

10

2 OHI sr
15 IONA

 

5' of interestingfstory.._lines,for'fanV V.
‘rye or‘

:tree agencyg period and thereis ho lack *
I EV“ — .
...with i1>1‘ ‘fr df-btf ‘

make their 'pr‘edictions"eon-

_e.ca-ti o Jyv speculate how things

regular se‘as_‘on‘.1 . ' ‘

I '.1lIl?turri out; until _;Sep_tern'ber a‘nd—the '-

1 live the roughil1fe.of a Dolphins fan; .—

it’s_ never-ending. torture, but "this is the

I ' first year the Fins -have -really given‘ me

hope for the upcoming season. Despite
claims by the Miami front-ofﬁce that
the free agency wasn’t going to ‘be im-

portant for the Dolphins this year, they

have dropped majormoney on some ‘big
names._ Receiving corps pick-ups Mike

7-- PET‘.

‘Wallace,’ Dustin Keller,‘ and '1 Brandon

Gibson A akesense and should provide
earjquarterback Ryan Tannehill

“s_iv'e weapons that
My . ‘The choice to drop
inebaclwrs 5'» not Miami’s

’_.;Philip Wh.eelerand Dan-

. ' , ,' is. questionable‘ but will no
oub trengthe the_already formidable

_Do1ph1n§1 -id‘ fense_.' ut ‘the Dolphins

‘J:  money: to spend, so why’ not?
‘-The losses of Jake Long?‘ and Reggie

Bush ’we‘re5‘really"ine\4ita’qle and while

they weret-wo'of thebiggest names on
' the ‘team ‘last. year,fthey should be re-

placeable. Altogether the’ Dolphins are a
more talented team today than they were

1 KANSAS
N
‘ MI
1 ST
3
14
7 SDSU
:11
2
: 
.1
16
8
9 T
L
I 12
SYR

g BUTLER
1

3 MAR
14 DAVID

a week or so ago," and we should (or at '
least I hope. to) see some major improve-
ment on both sides of the ball next sea- ..

. son. Not to mention the ﬁve draft picks:-' 7

they have in the ﬁr‘st‘l-three‘ro"u ds ‘ofvthe.;,

draft, but that’s forApriI. ‘  
There are some other; ajor pick-up

that -really have impressed me so .far‘i

the free agency »p“eritod>.- l.think.tl1at the 

Steven Jackson ac_l tion “in “-Atlanta. is .'

1 solid and shouldimpro e"their—toffensel "

if he can play at the high‘ leveI.{.of abil-
ity that he has. The addition of Percy '

' Harvin in Seattle should be a success‘-‘
ful one as well. ‘Heshould fit into the 1 .

Seahawks’ young; athletic teain and bar-

7 ILL

—-—-—-tar:
2 MIAMI
15 PACIF

be a greatitarget for ‘Russell Wilson.

‘And while I understated the. loss of Reg-

gie Bush‘ forll)/Iiami, I?'t_ ink‘ that he’s a
greatfadditiori to a Detroit offense that

-‘does _very'li'tt1e besides‘ passing the ball
‘ to Calvin Johnson. ' I I

It’s impossibleto say who the win-
ners_in'_.t_he' free agency are -now, but I
hai/ehigh hopes for. a lot of teams. and

' their pick-ups. It will only make for a

more ‘interesting ‘season come Septem-

, ber whenwe start to learnwhether these

playersjare worth the money that teams

I haveshelled out for them.

ring any injury‘(o migraine) he should .1. ‘

ree agency this year fullof big I

There have been several car|_v losers
in free agency this NFL offscason. The
team that has received the most criti-
cism for their choices is the Baltimore
Ravens. The Ravens. co1ni11g off a Su-
per Bowl victor; igncd quarterback
Joe Flacco to a mas. ivc deal. but l1ad to
sacriﬁce other key pieces in the process.
So far this olfscason. the Ravens have
let go of/\nquan Boldin. Paul Kruger.
and Dannell lillcrbc, all ol‘ wl1on1 con-
tributed heavily to the Ravens‘ s ‘
While Boldin appeared to be ovcrp
l1c expressed a desire to stay with the
organization, and was ignored. Kruger
and lillerbe are very valuable players on
the defensive side because oftheir youth
and ability. The Ravens also lost Ray
Lewis to retirement and could see [id
Rccd leave the team as well. The team
l1as failed to retain both their young
prospects as well as older cornerstones
like Reed and Boldin.

Coming into this ol‘l‘scason. the Steel-
ers were in a very similar position to
the Ravens. Both teams are perennial
contenders w 1o are currently strapvd
for cash. The Stcelers cut manv imp ‘
tam pieces. such as ‘C0l1tlill '_
Kccnan Lewis and Ryan Mund)’. and of-
fensive stars Mike Wallace and Rasliard
Mcndcnhall. The Stcclers also released
former dclcnsi c force James Ilarrison,
without bringing in any exciting new tal-
cm.

The Jets also lost out in this _vcar”s lrce
agency. The Jets cut important faces on
defense such as Eric Smith. Calvin Pace.
Sione Pouha, and Bart Scott. Thcsc
players contributed migh1il_v to the Jets‘
back-to-back Al-‘C title game runs. The
Jets also face a great deal ol‘unccrtaint_v
surrounding Darcllc Rcvis. their best
player and biggest question mark. I low-
cvcr. the bigg 1 loss ol‘ all may have
been tight end Dustin Kcllcr. who signed

an all-loo alTordablc contract with Mi-
ami. Keller has been Mark Sanchcfs
onl_\ consistent salcty valve, and without
him. Sanchez (or whoever becomes QB
in New York). will struggle even n1ore.

/\ddilionall_v the Rams struggled this
oil’-season. With a developing quarter'-
back like Sam Braclforcl. it is especially
important to surround him with weap-
ons. So far. the Rams have let go of
their two best receivers. l)annv Amen-
dola and Brandon Gibson. They also
lost their best ol‘l’cnsivc player ol‘ the
past livc years, Steven Jackson. who l1as
never given up on the team and is truly
a \\0l'I\'l1()l‘SC. The Rams have ol‘l'crcd a
contract to left tackle Jake Long ol‘ the
Mizm1i l)olphins. and ii‘ l1c accepts. the
Rams will be i11 much better shape, es-
pecially with two lirst round draft picks.
llowcvcr, ifthc Rams fail to sign Long,
they will be one ol’ the ycar‘s biggest
losers.

By Kyle Jaeger
STAFF WRITER

Finall_v. the most active players in
free agency, the Miami l)olphi s. have
made some l1ugc n1ovcs. While these
deals might work out in the short run. I
do not see them as long run fixes. The
Dolphins had n1onc_v available. and
went on a spcnding'sprcc. bringing in
Mike Wallace at wide receiver. and two
lincbackcrs -- Dannell lillcrbe and Phil-
lip Whclccr -— who don‘t really lit their
needs. These players came from con-
tenders who traditionally lock up their
important players. and w crc unwilling to
match these contracts. This might s g-
gcst something about Wallace and l-Illcr-
bc. Overall. the Miami Dolphins could
emerge as lrcc agcncy‘s big winners.
or they could become the next “l)rcan1
Team" Philadclpliia Eagles —- especially
if they fail to retain cornerstone player‘
Jake Long - getting little value out ol‘
their acquisitions.

  

 

 

 

10 0 THE RlNG-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 18,2013

 

 

   

      
 

 

‘“““’ """;*;°“ Baseball second in ODAC .

The number of games that the Miami Heat have won in a

 

row. This streak ties the second-longest win streak in NBA
history set by the 2007-2008 Houston Rockets. The record
is 33 games in a row set by the Los Angeles Lakers during

the 1971-1972 season.

13

The total number of Washington and Lee student-athletes
inducted into the Phi Beta Kappa Honor Society on Thurs-

day.

soapbox

"You have to be good and be lucky to beat a
great team. We're a little bit of both.”

-tlnlvsnllyofMarylandooaoh MarkTur¢sonal'Isrths
MarylandTsrpsdslsatsdthsu1sn-ssoondranlcsd DuloBlus
Dsvlls lnthsAccTournamsnt. Marylandwonaa-74for1hsIr
sscondvlo'lnryaalnstDulothlsssason. Marylandfellln
thstlllournsmlrisl:UNc,fromcBSSPORTS.oom

"This is one of those things I can’t come
back too early. We saw last season when
I tried to play too early [with a calf injury]
what happened. lfl try to play too early
from this we could miss the whole season,
and we don’t want that.”

-NswYorkYbnksss' first baseman MarkTslxslra about his
mostrsosntlnlury. He hurt hlswrlstwhlle hltllngofralss
durlngpraollesforthsworld Baseball classic. Hsadmlttsd
lb rsportsrsthaths hasnoldsa howlongthe lnlurywllltaka
tohsal,from ESPN.com

 

ATHLETE 0 THE WEEK

‘ ‘ to sixth-ranked Washin

,  ,i 
Sophomore track and ﬁeld athlete Janey
Fugate broke the school record in the 400
hurdles this weekend at the Dr. Jack M.
Tom's Invite. Her time, 62.92, broke her old
school record of 63.59 and is currently the

fastest time in the country in the event.

 

ondeck

BasebaH

Monday

W&L sweeps a double-header against Guilford to improve to 4-2 in the ODAC

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

fl’ Halfxi/ay-ithrough its season,G_enerals’ base-

~cof‘1 stands at 4E-2.” . v .
Th_e‘Generals most recently outhit the Guil-

nine of which were homerun_s, from the Quak-

ers." ,. ‘ -

. The Generals start'ed’their season in much
the same way that they outplayed the Quak-
V.ers’—-with big leads. W&L opened its season
with a 12-Odefeat of Rochester (Micht). They
carried another “W”, in thesecond game. _
E Senior Ian Shawﬂandsophomore Cory Smith
pitched to hold Rochester’ at bay. They served
many strikes and ‘allowed for absolutely no
runs; Shaw, junior Nate Plein, and seniorpEric
Wilsotsky currently hold the best pitching re-
cords on the team. ’ v

0 Soon aﬁer sweeping Rochester, the Generals ‘ A ‘ .
continued to secure winswith big, early leads '

against New Jersey City, Emory, and Alver-
nia. In these games, the Generals’ three big-
gest hitters, seniors Will Salley and Jonathan
Stutts and junior Keegan Dolan, all started
their commendable hitting streaks. ,
The week before the Generals’ most re-
centlvictories this weekend, W&L struggled
against Randolph-Macon, Stevenson, and
Southern Virginia, of which only Randolph-

.Macon<is_an ODAC contender. The Generals .. '

have since overcomethese losses with great
wins to propel them forward through the re-

;- mainder of the season. . x
The Generals will play at home against Earl-

ham on Tuesday at 3 p.m. and again at home
against Bridgewater on Wednesday at 4 p.m.

p.baIl”has’.brought its recent los_ing‘ streak around [ -
with a.9‘:-8Vl;record.p In the OId‘Dominion Ath— '
letic Conference, Washington and Lee’s Are-.

ford Quakers in a doubleheader lastsaturday. H
‘The-men started out strong and held their lead-
throughout the day. In all,-W&L took 20 runs, _

 
 

  
  

 
 
 
 
    
 
      
    

 

 A

vs Earlham 3 pm

Lax starts 6-1 1‘

Men is lacrosse is ranked ninth in the nation after averjy strong start to their season

By Victoria Coates
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team is having one of their strongest seasons
in years, starting off with ﬁve wins and just
one loss since being picked second in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference preseason poll.

The Generals, currently ranked ninth in
the NCAA, began their season with a strong
nineteen-point win against Ferrum University.
Since then, the team has beaten top-ranked
Salisbury, 7-6 in two overtimes, .and ended
their three-game losing streak to Franklin &
Marshall. They have suffered one away loss
ton Colle e.

Tuesday Wednesday

 

“We have played tough and gritty lacrosse
having come from behind to win in most of
our games this season,” Head Coach Gene
McCabe said. The focus ofthis season is team
chemistry, which -will be a critical component
to the Generals’ success this season.

“Seniors are doing a great job leading this
team,” added McCabe. Senior Joe LaSala
is playing very well after back-to-back ACL
surgeries, having caused seven turnovers in
the Franklin & Marshall win. Captains Mac
Means and Cooper Brown have had impres-
sive starts to the seaso stablishin

Thursday

 

vs Roanoke 12 and 3

ship and demonstrating their abilities on the
ﬁeld. Additionally, sophomore goalie Warren
Berenis has had a fantastic season, inspiring
conﬁdence among his teammates. Berenis has
played a major factor in the team‘s success so
far this season. _

The Generals will host their next three
games against Mary Washington, Guilford,
and Lynchburg. The team is already anticipat-
ing the pivotal game against Lynchburg, who
is not only in the ODAC conference but is also
currently ranked eighth in the country.

    

Saturday Sunday

Men’s Golf

vs Bridgewater 4 pm

at Marine Corps Intercollegiate Golf Tournament

Women’s Golf

at Randolph-Macon invitational

Men’s Lacrosse

vs Mary Washington 7 pm

vs Guilford 3 pm

Women’s Lacrosse

lat Catholic 11:30 am

Men’s Swimming

Division III National Championship

s in Shenandoah, Texas

Men’s Tennis

vs Bridgewater 4‘ pm

vs Shenandoah 10 am

Women’s Tennis

vs Bridgewater 4 pm

at Emory 10 am

at Em0TY 9 am at Emory 9 am

Track and Field

W&L Track Carnival

 

 

