  
 

 

 

 

 

 

    an

'78

great! 

Not one, not two, but THREE Generals of
the Week are accomplishing great things.

A&L / page 6

 at WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

HE RING—TUM PHI.  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

By Krysta Huber
STAFF w R ITER

Washington and Lee recently received
a $2.5 million dollar donation from the
Dyson Foundation to put toward build-
ing a center for global learning on cam-
pus.

The gift represents the leading contri-
bution to the new building, which will
be attached to a renovated DuPont Hall.

According to Vice President of Univer-
sity Advancement Dennis Cross, the Dy-
son Foundation developed an interest in
the project because two of its members
are connected to the university’s com-
munity. Chris Dyson is an alumnus and
his father, a W&L parent, is the presi-
dent of the foundation.

The Dyson Foundation has made con-
tributions to W&L in the past, includ-
ing the revitalization of spring term and
priorities of the university‘ campaign.
Through frequent communication with
W&L’s advancement ofﬁce, the Dysons
expressed interest in promoting intema-
tional education on campus and there-

' fore wanted to help build the new center.

“The Dysons believe that we live in
one world and they want to make sure
that our students are a part of that world.
This building is a way to bring that em-
phasis to W&L students,” Cross said.

Dean of the College Suzanne Keen
said she is very appreciative of such a
large gift.

“I just feel grateful and lucky because
it seems that the ball is really rolling,”
said Keen. “The gift makes it all seem
real.” I

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMEcXV.|l,NUMBER14

Global learning comes to life

Director of International Education
Larry Boetsch echoed Keen’s sentiment,
saying that this process, which * dates
back to 2005, has now entered its second
stage.

Boetsch explained that the early phase
of building the new center was a way
to establish what the university was al-
ready doing in support of global learn-
ing and then to ﬁgure out what W&L
should add and improve upon. Boetsch
explained that thinking differently about
study abroad was a major focal point in
the ﬁrst stage of the project.

According to Boetsch, the project
has now entered its second phase. This
phase involves creating credit courses to
prepare for study abroad programs, in an
effort for students to reap more beneﬁts
from their time abroad.

“You might be thinking about a proj-
ect you want to get started while you’re
away, and complete when you come
back,” said Boetsch. “Right now, we’re
trying to ﬁgure out how that would hap-

pen.”

“In the second phase, everything is
becoming connected - faculty, courses,
curriculum, study abroad — It’s all com-
ing together,” he added.

According to Cross, discussion to ren-
ovate DuPont hall had been in the works
for a few years, but was ofﬁcially added
to the university campaign in 2010.

On the campaign released in Octo-
ber of 2010, one of W&L’s priorities
was to create a campus appropriate for

the 21st century. Changes that have so
far achieved this goal include the Hil-
lel House and renovating and restoring
buildings along the Colonnade.

The Center for Global Learning proj-

ect was originally described on the cam-
paign as “a state-of-the-art facility for
global learning in a renovated and en-
hanced DuPont.” Cross said that the ac-
tual layout and details of the new center
were not yet established, but now that a
vision for the building has been execut-
ed, it willbe easier to solicit support for
the building.

“You can’t just go out there and solicit
funds if you don’t have plans, if you
don’t know really exactly what’s go-
ing to be there,” said Cross. “You can
explain it in general, but you won’t get
gifts until you have it deﬁned.”

Now that the final product for DuPont
has been established, the University Ad-

“vancement Oﬁice has begun to release

pamphlets that advertise the Center for
Global Learning. The pamphlet includes
a plan of the overall site, as well as sec-
ond and third floor plans.

According to the pamphlet, the center
will house the Ofﬁce of lntemational
Education, ofﬁces of visiting interna-
tional faculty and multiple language de-
partments.

The Center for Global Learning has
been designed to include the most up-
to-date technologies that will allow stu-
dents to bring the world onto W&L’s
campus.

Boetsch described his vision for what
he imagines will take place in the center.
“An open classroom reveals small
groups of W&L students in animated
conversation with groups of Italian stu-

dents at one of our partner institutions

abroad,” said Boetsch. “In a virtual
classroom, art history students join their
professor on the ceiling of the Sistine
Chapel to examine the details of the re-
cent restoration.”

He also added that it was important to
make a distinction between the purpose
of the center compared to other academ-
ic buildings on campus.

“This will be a place you walk into and
it will be like no other place on campus
because it will be the marketplace for
global ideas and activity,” said Boetsch.
“This is a building to accommodate pro-
grams, not just a building in which of-
ﬁces happen to be located.”

Both Boetsch and Cross said that they
are pleased with how the plan to create
the center has been progressing. Both
are optimistic about receiving more
donations because global learning has
become an important aspect of the cur-
riculum.

Cross said: “I feel very optimistic. I
think that over the next 18 months or
so, we will be able to get committed do-
nations and get the project started. We
have a good case to make, and I know
that [aIumni, students and parents] will
be a receptive audience.”

Students ‘
work to

update our
constitution

By Dougas McNiel
STAFF WRITER

The Constitutional Review Commit-
tee has been hard at work reviewing and
proposing changes to the student body
constitution since October.

The committee is headed by junior
Annelise Madison, and eight other un-
dergraduate and law students. The other
members are law students Rob Ridge-
way, Jay Gordon, and John Langley;
undergraduate seniors Cameron Higgins,
Emily Zankman and Clark Hildabrand;
junior Alex Berger; and ﬁrst year Paqui
Toscano.

Annelise Madison says that the main
goals of the review are too “make the
Constitution more comprehensive so that
it can act as a framework for student gov-
ernment, creating an article of student

rights, and clarifying the powers of the ,

Executive Committee”.

The committee began the process by
identifying what they believed to be the
problems in the student constitution and
then discussing methods of ﬁxing the
problems. Their objective this semester
has largely been to harness feedback
from the Washington and Lee commu-
nity about their proposed amendments
and to spread the word about the process.

The Constitutional Review Commit-
tee will hold a town hall meeting in the
Northern Auditorium and the Moot Court
Room where students can share their
opinions about the proposed amend-
ments, on Feb. 28. After this, the com-
mittee will consider the student body's
input and present the amendments to the
Executive committee sometime in early
March.

Later in March the student body will
vote on each amendment. Every amend-
ment must be voted on by half of the stu-
dent body and must receive a two-third
“yes” majority in order to pass.

One proposed amendment is a creation
of separate legislative branch and judi-
cial branch articles. Although both of
these articles fall under the jurisdiction
of the Executive Committee, the com-
mittee hopes that by separating the two
articles they can clarify some the powers
of other student body organizations such
as the Student-Faculty Hearing Board
and the Student Judiciary Council.

The Constitutional Review Committee
will be releasing information on the pro-
posed amendments through Facebook
and through articles in the Phi.

Fighting for c

By Hamlet Fort

STAFF WRITER
A Washington and Lee Law School

student tried to change University policy
last year regarding a national holiday
that most college students nationwide
have off from classes. '
David Knoespel, ‘l4L, attempted to
submit a petition to suspend classes for
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day to the under-
graduate and Law administrations last
year, but the effort was not successful.
Knoespel believes Washington andLee
should follow other universities’ method

Dr. King’s birthday (Jan. 15). Hundreds
ofcolleges, universities and high schools

_around the country have a holiday off

from classes in remembrance, and usu-
ally host an array of events celebrating
Dr. King’s legacy.

Washington and Lee is not exempt
from such events. However, the Uni-
versity feels canceling classes is not the
right path to take.

We believe that canceling classes is
not the only way, or even necessarily

“In a sentence, the symbolic value of MLK Day is

too important to just let it be another day of going

"through our everyday motions. ”

DAVID KNOESPEL, ‘14L

ofcelebration for the national holiday.

“In a sentence, the symbolic value of
MLK Day is too important to just let it
be another day of going through our ev-
eryday motions,” said Knoespel.

Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is cel-
ebrated on the third Monday of every
Jan. in the United States, right around

the most meaningful way, to respect and
honor Dr. King and his legacy,” said Jeff
Hanna, Executive Director of Communi-
cations and Public Affairs. The ofﬁcial
University policy regarding MLK Day is
such, regardless of an attempt at a peti-
tion from Knoespel.

Instead of suspending classes, Wash-

ange on MLK

ington and Lee hosted a number of
events to celebrate MLK Day on Jan. 21.
One of those events was a lecture by Ter-
rence Roberts, one of the famous Little
Rock Nine, entitled “Lessons from Little
Rock,” in Lee Chapel on Sunday, Jan.
20. The Little Rock Nine were a group
of African-American students credited
with integrating Little Rock Central
High School in 1957, made famous by
the intervention of Arkansas Governor
Orval Faubus and President Dwight D.
Eisenhower. The event is considered one
of the most important moments in the
Civil Rights Movement ofthe 1950s and
1960s.

The Shepherd Poverty Program hosted
a day of service on Monday, Jan. 14, in
honor of Dr. King’s commitment to com-
munity service and dedication to helping
others. Roland S. Martin, award-winning
journalist and political analyst, delivered
the keynote address in Lee Chapel on
Jan. 16, followed by a Remembrance
Concert at the First Baptist Church in
Lexington and Jan. 21.

Washington and Lee doesn’t ignore
Martin Luther King Day, but some stu-
dents feel suspending classes is an im-

portant step towards improving W&L’s
remembrance efforts.

“We hope that in time W&L will
choose to place more signiﬁcance on
MLK Holiday and the things that the
holiday represents,” said Knoespel.

Knoespel believes change will come
to Washington and Lee in time. “Ulti-
mately, I think that W&L in the future
will change its policies,” he said. “I think
that the stakes are too important and the
downside too small for W&L not to
change.”

Washington and Lee hosts events for
Martin Luther King Day, and the Uni-
versity believes students must make
an effort to ﬁnd them and participate.

3

  

Suspended classes affect every student,
and that seems to be the most obvious
measure of remembrance. Students who
aren’t aware of W&L’s MLK Day events
may believe that no celebration is occur-
ring.

The University hopes students will
make an effort in the future to celebrate
MLK Day without calling for suspend-
ing classes.

“Through our week-long celebration of
Dr. King’s life, sponsored by the Office
of Diversity and Inclusion, the Univer-
sity strives to create a signiﬁcant tribute
that involves both our campus commu-
nity and the Lexington community,” said
Hanna.

 

 

    

 

  

Ur-' “   1“  : =r;*:7.*tir-:y
vmsi. '   :::_z .. :3RfilTY
1  2:‘.-7.-zen
2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2013
FEB 0 5 2013

n ews  

 

 

lnvestigati n

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

"'39:. 5,‘

 

I.

  

I

 

Shester looks into the growing problem of Public Housing in America. Some of the questions she delved
into were our obligations to provide housing for the poor and how projects affect children.

Last Tuesday, Assistant Professor of
Economics Katharine Shester tackled the
growing and concerning problem of hous-
ing the poor in the United States.

To do so, we are confronted with two
options: we could either give them money
or we could use that money to provide
them with in-kind subsidies, including
speciﬁc goods or services such as food,
shelter and clothing.

Shester looked at several questions

 

Assistant Professor of Economics
Katharine Shester

with this issue. Why are we obligated to
provide these beneﬁts? Is this not a case of
paternalism? lfso, do we really care about
children? And ﬁnally, might there be other
indirect goals, such as promoting less seg-
regation, or stimulating economic growth?

Housing for the poor, the most basic of
human goods, can be distinguished into
two types. First, there is unit-based hous-
ing, in which the government subsidizes a
speciﬁc housing unit to let the poor reside
there. Second, there is tenant-based hous-
ing, in which the government subsidizes a
speciﬁc tenant, thus allowing them to live
in a place oftheir choosing.

Before choosing between the two, one
ought to take note of the history of public
housing in this country. .

“The New Deal of 1933, the Hous-
ing Acts of 1937 and 1949, and the U.S.
Housing and Home Finance Agency of
1964 have provided ﬁnancial assistance
to the indigent for the elimination of un-
safe and unsanitary housing conditions, for
the eradication of slums, for the provision
of decent, safe and sanitary dwellings for
families of low income and for the reduc-
tion of unemployment and the simulation
of business activity,” said Shester.

Continuing the tradition of govemmen-
tal initiatives in public housing, the federal
government today spends $50 billion for
the slums and such, but has been seeming-
ly unable to shrink the long waiting lists
for public housing and vouchers.

“lt’s not always households with the
lowest incomes who get into public hous-
ing,” said Shester.

So to eliminate this ineﬂiciency, vari-
ous economists have studied and proposed
solutions to this gross bureaucratic prob-
lem.

One such solution, proposed by the
economists Janet Currie and Aaron Yelow-
itz, purports to answer the question, “Are
public housing projects good for kids?”

Currie and Yelowitz suggest that the
size of a unit that a family is eligible to

get in public housing be determined by
the number and gender of their kids. The
bigger the unit, they say, the bigger the
subsidy. For example, assuming that par-
ents reside in a bedroom of their own, if
there were one boy and one girl, the fam-
ily would be allocated a three-bedroom
unit. If there were two boys or two girls,
however, the family would only have two
bedrooms.

Public housing projects are, indeed,
good for kids. “According to the results of
their study, living in public housing proj-
ect buildings PH project makes you: less
likely to live in an overcrowded unit, more
likely to live in a building with less than 50
units and makes children 11 percent less
likely to have been held back in school one
or more grades,” said Shester.

Finally, Shester addressed Lawrence
Katz’s “Moving to Opportunity” Experi-
ment from 1994-1998, in which 4,600
households in Baltimore, Boston, Chi-
cago, Los Angeles and New York, all liv-
ing in project-based subsidized housing in
high poverty areas, were divided into three
groups.

The ﬁrst group received vouchers to
live in areas with less than ten percent pov-
erty, the second group received vouchers
to go anywhere and the third group didn’t
get anything

In the end, the second group reported
greater safety, fewer crimes and less psy-
chological distress.

Vouchers are, in Shester’s words, “the
manner by which we ought to address pov-
erty in America.” D

Global News Feature:
SAIL takes students
out of the ‘‘bubble’’  

By"Hannah Howard

STAFF WR|TE9‘SN  

, ,. .
4% *
0 .

       
  

 

V
V*'‘ 1:
— CV
E :
'4 9

., $3‘
- min’?-‘ '\

As students, we have a tendency to get caught up in the all happenings on
the Washington and Lee campus ‘— the “W&L bubble,” It is often necessary
to take a step back from everything and remember what is going on else-
where. The Student Association for International Learning, or SAIL, aims to
help students do that.

Soﬁa Sequeira, president and active-chair of SAIL said, “SAIL is an
organization dedicated to addressing international issues within the W&L
community and to sharing new and different answers to social, cultural and
political questions.”

SAIL is one of the most active clubs on campus and has been for quite
some time. Amy Richwine, SAIL’s advisor, said, “The association existed as
the lntemational Club well before I arrived on campus twelve years ago.”

It is easy for students to get involved with the group. Just sign up and at-
tend some meetings or offer to help out with one of the events. There are a
few different committees within the club that are available as well.

The Outreach Committee organizes events that deal with international
cultures and interests. This committee also coordinates activities between
SAIL, the W&L campus and the Lexington community.

The International Development and Relief Group (IDRG) educates stu-
dents about current humanitarian efforts and campaigns. The Publicity Com-
mittee creates posters 'to, raise awareness on campus of SAIL events and
maintains the website. .

SAIL hosts events year round in an effort to “bring the world to our cam-
pus” and raise overall awareness of current events and crises around the
globe.

Sequeira said, “The student body is well informed about global affairs,
but we still need to try to get more people involved and interested in them.”

Some of the events that try to spark interest on campus are the annual Ice
Cream Social in September and the Showcase for Morocco in November.
The Showcase was one of the largest events this year. February will mark the
2013 Friendship Dinner and in March the second large event for SAIL, An
Evening Abroad, will take place.

Sequeira continued, “Most importantly [these events] promote exchange
between the diverse cultures at W&L. The student body should also be aware
of more ways in which they could improve the wellbeing of the global com-
munity.”

Increased global awareness helps students to understand people across
the globe through a different lens.

“SAIL helps students to understand aspects about the world through
someone else’s eyes and through a diﬂerent perspective,” said Sequeira. “We
do so by learning about other people’s stories, experiences and views.”

This understanding is important both on campus — for forming a stronger
community — and off campus — for successful interactions on a global scale.
Sequeira spoke on her personal beneﬁts from SAIL: “Being the chair has
given me the opportunity to interact with people with dilferent interests and
concerns regarding global issues and cultural matters. It has been a learning

exerience that has widened m ers ective on the world.”

 ”

 

By Yejean Kim
STA F F w R IT E R

Lexington City Council banned the ﬂy-
ing of any ﬂags on city-owned poles ex-
cept for U.S., Virginia, and city ﬂags, in
2011. The ban was enacted amidst pro-
tests of the Confederate ﬂags that were
ﬂown in honor of Lee-Jackson Day that
year. .
Many residents of Lexington, includ-

.ing several students and teachers at

W&L as well as several prominent busi-
ness owners were among the protesters.

One of these business owners is Al
Hockaday, a former Marine and owner
of the Shenandoah Attic and Victorian
Parlor along with his wife, emestine.

In a speech at an event for protesting
the ﬂags in 2011, Hockaday stated that
he hoped to never see three ﬂags ﬂying
in Lexington: the swastika, the rising
sun of Japan and. the Confederate stan-
dard. When contacted at the Shenandoah

I stated that the defendantsil..we:rei to ..pa

 

Attic and Victorian Paillér,  emestige;
said, “This establishrrient,d<iesn’t have ,,
anything against the ﬂags¥but  ”

The ban was not the ﬁrst time‘ 7'
ington history that the ﬂags have drawn’ 2'
criticism.

On June 25, 1993, the Sons of Confed-
erate Veterans, Virginia Division, ﬁled a
complaint alleging that they were hin
dered from displaying the Confederate
ﬂag at a rededication ceremonyforl M M
cemetery statue of General;.,'l.‘lto_1;:ias,;J'
“Stonewall” Jackson. A  " 

The settlement eventua y

F ban IaiCOI1ﬂlCt Of

g the lawsuit reinstated against the

However, Constitutional experts say
that the SCV has a slim chance of mak-
"rig a Constitutional argumentebecause
' gton has the right to control speech

the Sons of Confederate S
$1 in “monetary relief”, acct):
case‘summary, as well-N A I

  

  

from the suit.’-   A 
More prominently, the case also re-

used as a national or battle ﬂag of the
Confederacy.”

The protest and subsequent ban in
2011 led the SCV to ﬁle another lawsuit
protesting the ban on several grounds,
including the 1993 injunction and a vio-

 
         
     

Nebraska: “Iii
of the heritage o

 
   
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
    

where people are coming’ from‘ when
they say it’s offensive, Personally, I was
a little offended myself, because I don’t

gm! rights. While the
D‘ _ 1' ‘ 'issed, there is a hearing
,  4th U.S. Circuit Court
1  on March 20 in the hopes of
this region is an aspect to be proud of.”

. This was corroborated by ﬁrst year

ﬁcult to not feel anything negative about
it, because in the North it’s a symbol
of everything negative aboutithe war-—
slavery, and treason. Michigan was one
of the ﬁrst states to rebel against the
laws against slaves, so we have a par-
ticular view on it. I know it’s a symbol
of Southern pride around here, but when
you grow up viewing it as something so
negative it‘s hard to put that aside.”

Next year’s Lee-Jackson Day will fall
' an Jan. 17-18. ‘

property, including ﬂag poles.
‘_‘,Lee-Jackson Day saw re-
": . including protesters
' grate ﬂags down-
' zimgge ﬁlled with

   

     

  
  
  

think that that aspect of the history of

Erica Schiller, who said: “It’s really dif-

4-»;
Im

 

 

 



 

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

3 ' THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

  pinions

 
   

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

TH LIBERATION OF TIBUKTU

J .

  FEBRUARY 1. 2013 I

'l‘he.\l()S'l‘
l’()\\~’l§Rl«‘L‘l.
Wm! “W  

VP \

DY MICHAEL TOMASKY

_ Hard as it is to believe, Hillary Clin-
ton was, at one point, little more than a
girl scout from Park Ridge, Illinois. She
was on student council, wrote for the

school ' newspaper, and ‘played’ baseball‘

lilillltﬁﬂ lilli llild

ll;  :

has exalted the political icon as “the most
powerful woman in American history.”
The president has referred to her as “one
of the ﬁnest secretary of states we’ve

ever had.” Havingr t-ravelled“‘)56,73,3.
miles during"her time with the Obama ~

administration, Clinton has been named
by The Atlantic “The George Clooney of
global affairs.” And some have reason to
believe that she’s just getting started.
Clinton stepped down from her role
as secretary of state on Friday on the
heels of a committee investigation into
the death of U.S. Ambassador Christo-
pher Stevens. Stevens, killed in Libya
on Sept. ll when Libyan rebels attacked
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, was ini-
tially thought to have been murdered as
the result of the ﬁlm The Innocence of

‘Muslims. However, Stevens’ diary later

revealed that the ambassador had been
fearful of an attack for some‘ time, be-
lieving both that the tensions in Libya
had reached a peak and that Al Qaeda
had placed him in their crosshairs. As a
result, Stevens had requested increased
security at the consulate, which the U.S.
State Department ultimately ignored.

, The committee found that several ofﬁ-

cers had behaved negligently in the time
leading up to Stevens’ death, and three
employees were eventually let go.
Despite this, Clinton was untouched
by blame. During the congressional
hearings about the attack, Clinton was
treated for the most part with respect. A
brief run-in with Sen. Ron Johnson con-
cerning what he considered to be a slow
reaction on her part after the attack only
served to further portray Clinton as self-
composed and dedicated. Her reply to
his hooded accusations had her asking,
“With all due respect, the fact is we had
four dead Americans. Was it because of
a protest or was it because of guys out
for a walk one night who decided they’d
go kill some Americans? What differ-

ence, at this point, does it make?” If _

anything, Clinton walked away from the
scufﬁe having picked up yardage in the
eyes of supporters.

As Clinton leaves her position, she

wasserts,‘ -‘“I am more convinced than

ever in the strength and staying power
of America’s global leadership and our
capacity to be a force for good in the
world.” Looking back on her years as
the 67th secretary of state, Clinton has
a clear view of all of her many mile-
stones. She broke the record pertaining
to the number of nations visited by the
secretary of state, trumping Madeline
Albright’s 98 different countries with
her own 112 (having crossed enough of
the world to circle the globe more than
38 times). She was the ﬁrst secretary of
state to visit Myanmar in more than ﬁfty
years when she helped to free political
prisoners who opposed the country’s

istory still in the making

how I’m going to adjust to not having a
schedule.”

But those close to her say that Clin-
ton has never been the type to sit back
and let the country be run without her.
Dee Dee Myers, who was press secretary
when Clinton’s husband was in oﬂice,
says of the out-going secretary of state,
“One of the things I think that Hillary
has done consistently over the course of
her career is she’s always opted for in-
stitutional power. She wants to make big
change, touch people’s lives in a lasting
way. Now she faces a similar decision.
She can join her husband’s foundation.
She can create her own foundation. She

“One of the things I think that Hillary has done consis-
tently over the course of her career is she s always opted
for institutional power. She wants to make big change,
touch people is lives in a lasting way. ”.

Dee Dee Myers, former White House Press Secretary

leader Aung San Suu Kyi. More impres-
sively, she oversaw the State Depart-
ment at a time in our country’s history
when America was waging wars in both
Iraq and Afghanistan.

So what’s next‘?

According to Clinton, what she wants
now is nothing more than to catch up on
20 years of lost sleep. In an interview
with Michele Kelemen, Clinton did not
mention having any intention to run for
president in 20l6, stating, “I don’t see
myself getting back into politics. I want
to be involved in philanthropy, advo-
cacy, working on issues like women and
girls that I care deeply about. I want to
write and speak. I want to work with my
husband and my daughter on our mutual
foundation interests. So I’m going to
have my hands full. I don’t quite know

can work on issues she cares deeply
about and have a huge impact, but it’s
not the kind of institutional power that
she seems to gravitate toward.”

Supporters have rallied around Clin-
ton, even begu a super-political action
committee on her behalf just in case
she decides to run. For her part, Clinton
has been coy about the subject, not yet
having denied outright that she will be
running. There have been many remarks
made to the effect that she cannot see
that far into.the future. To many fans
who had given up hope of ever seeing
Clinton in the Oval Ofﬁce after she lost
in 2008, these remarks have resurrected
their optimism.

for the pleasure of it._Today, Newsweek

Comb attin g

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF WRITER ,
Recently, Secretary of Defense Leon
Panetfa signed an order using the pow-
ers of his ofﬁce to lift all restrictions
and barriers to women in combat posi-
tions in the US military. While women
have been allowed to serve in the US
militaryand attend its academies since
the early I990’s, they have‘ never been
allowed to serve in frontline or offensive
combat roles, but this does little to keep
them out of the line of ﬁre in today’s
modern urban warfare. With this last
act of his authority, Panetta has liﬂed
the ﬁnal piece of the “great glass ceil-
ing” to women in the greatest ﬁght force
the world has ever known. This has not
gone by without some controversy, as
numerous critics have cited both poten-
tial false accusations of sexual assault by
female soldiers and an increase in actual
instances of sexual assault as a threat to
the combat readiness of our ﬁghting men
and women. Personally, I feel that his-
tory, geopolitics, and previous examples
will prove these concerns to be minimal,
certainly not enough to justify the bar-
ring of qualiﬁed ﬁghting women from
serving in frontline combat in our mili-
tary. I
*7’ Currently, according to the Wash-
ington Post, 17 countries currently al-
low women to serve in frontline combat

“roles in their militaries, among them be-

ing France, Australia, Germany, Poland,
and Israel. _
Let us ﬁrst see to the particular geo-

political and defensive situations of a
few of these militaries, so as to establish
that the women in these militaries are
more than capable of ﬁghting along-
side their male comrades. Currently,

. the French military is engaged in what

is shaping up to be a long-term military
conﬁict in Mali as it ﬁghts to reinstall
its democratically elected government
and defend the nation against ruthless
Islamo—fascists that will present F rance’s
ﬁghting men and women with brutal ur-
ban conﬂict. Germany, Poland, and Aus-
tralia have all been major contributors
to the “Coalition of the Willing” in Iraq,
and ISAF forces in Afghanistan, and as
such their female soldiers have certain-
ly experienced numerous tests of their
bravery and skill without signiﬁcant or
abnormal fault. North Korea meanwhile,
just from anecdotes alone most certainly
has some of the most demanding train-
ing regimen and brutal physical require-
ments in the military world. If North Ko-
rean women can survive their nation’s
military, American women can certainly
survive in ours. While anecdotal at best,
this at least lends credence to the case
that women present no real threat to the
combat eﬁectiveness of a military.
Regarding sexual assault on women
in militaries, the US situation provides
for some depressing reading. According
to a 2006 study of female veterans spon-
sored by the Dept. of Veterans’ Affairs,
an estimated 23%-33% of all female

misconceptions

veterans were sexually‘ assaulted during
their time in the various branches of the
US military. Meanwhile, the rate of sex-
ual assault among women in the general
population of the US is l7%. For the re-
cord, 14.6% ofthe US military is female.

Everyone would agree that this is dis-
turbing, but where I differ with critics»
of increased female participation in the
military is the logic that such participa-
tion would inevitably lead to more sexu-
al assaults. Taking a look at-the effects of
women’s presence in the Israel Defense
Force may prove helpful to this discus-
sion. Israel has allowed women in front-
line combat roles (consistently) since
2000, and they currently make up 3% of
the IDF’s combat soldiers, 33% of all its
soldiers, and 51% ofits ofﬁcers. Further-
more, of all the positions that exist in the
IDF-—from private to general—women
can be found in 69% of them. Despite
this high prevalence of women, 1 in 7
(14.2%) female Israeli soldiers will be
sexually assaulting during their service,
nearly 3% less than will be assaulted in
the US general population.

The point is, that simply having more
women in a military doesn’t automati-
cally guarantee that more sexual assaults
will occur. Further, more women in the
military doesn’t automatically reduce the
combat effectiveness of a military; Israel
stands as proof to both of these state-
ments. If a nation as besieged as Israel
can maintain a ﬁght force as effective

and efficient as the IDF with such a high
proliferation of women, there is no rea-
son the US military cannot do the same.
Personally, I feel that if anyone can meet
the physical, mental, and emotional re-
quirements of service in the US military,
male or female, they should be allowed
to serve in any position to which they
are suited. To bar a qualiﬁed person’
from service simply because of their”
sex is not only discriminatory, but 

it is incredibly short-sighted. In,,f,
an era where the US military is 
accepting convicted felons in 
order to boost recruitment_,.{
numbers, turning away ,' 
willing volunteers on I

such an arbitrary and un-

founded fear is ridicu-

lous. Then again, it is

easier to simply bar

women than actu-

ally address the

issue of sexual

assault in the

military.

Giving credit where it is due

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Colleges ought to give credit for in-
temships, for'many reasons. ,

First, according to a 2012 survey by
the National Association of Colleges
and Employers, more than half of re-

cent college graduates had had intem-
 hips while undergraduates. These
‘days, internships, especially at colleges
as well-rounded as W&L, are nearly
 requisite to- a fulfilling collegiat ‘é}ipe-
__Yet some particularly elite colleges

     

,; \zir,l;rich,.,they suppose, falls fat short of

which these institutions may make the

 
  
 

 

are against granting credit for-"Work 

   

-‘::.;tl1e._1'igor of their typical worlgloagfg . 
  There are, however, variousways by?‘

  

cubiclea bit more like tl1ep,classroom.p_.p

Essays, intemship-related coursework
and reﬂective blogs all help to intel-
lectually stimulate both the intern and
scholar in today’s college-age person.
Internships also beneﬁt students
and schools alike. Students, on the
one hand, get more bang for their (par-
ents’) buck by working while learning.
- This work, rather than waiting tables or
pumping gas, is within a student’s ﬁeld’
‘~ of interest. Schools, on the other hand,
 ,berf:ef’it  "having more of their gradu-
ates, duejto internship experiences, be
placedin be/tter-paying, jobs in ﬁelds
;  ' ggteako their talents.
  , gberal arts college, even
_j_‘one,_La,S ‘prototypical as -ours, can give
‘credit for .inten1ships. "Q I 

   

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

l.

 

Ema fa at LEE Ill

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop' in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am — 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

www.|eehi.com See our menu online

. ' Twitter @berkysfood ”  Find us on Face book

540-463-3478

 

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY,’ FEBRUARY 4, 2013

arts&life

 

Roses are red, Violets areblue: Valen

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER .

Valentine’s Day is quickly approach-
ing. Men, it’s time to swallow your pride
and venture down the pink and red aisle
of Hallmark and buy into the holiday. On
average, each person spends about 125
dollars on the 14th, mostly on jewelry
(if you get my drift, boys). It’s a tall or-
der for a college student to live up to the
hype and to make the day memorable.

If you’re going to go big, you might

I as well do it right. 220,000 marriage

proposals occur on Valentine’s Day. My
goal isn’t to get you down the aisle, but
through the day without disappointing
that special someone. Trust me when I
say that messing this up is worse than
getting stuck at Windfall after Traveller
stops running.

If you’re an underclassman, and don’t
have the money to go big. You don’t need

to go home and give up by buying cheap
candy at Walmart (although it does boast
an impressive selection) - just take your
special someone out star gazing. Lexing-
ton is lucky to be surrounded by some
of the best scenery, all of which can be
reached by foot or car. Grab a blanket
and head over to the Ruins. The stars are
way better than a movie (which is certain
to be ﬁlled with many high-school age
couples that you’ll want to avoid).

If you do have a car, I suggest driv-
ing through the Blue Ridge Parkway
as a beautiful getaway. Its entrance is
located past Buena Vista by ﬁve miles,
and the signs lead you right out onto the
parkway. There are great stops along the
way, including an old train track, water-
fall and multiple scenic viewing sites.
Google directions to decide where to get

Tate a B!“ auto Lot

l he Red Hen is possibl_\ the best upscale res-
taurant in to\\n. lleautiliilly designed as a barn
nestled bet\\een the brick buildings on W: '
ington Street. the Red Hen is a \\onderliIl oz .
tor the taste buds. ’|'he presentation is iInpee-
cable \\ith colorllll art\\ork and an open kitchen
equipped \\ ith a \\el|-stocked bar.

Starter prices are S to ll dollars \\hile en-
trees range lroni IX to 35. lhe proper 3-course
dale \\ould probabl_\ run you arotind ninety dol-
lars. ()l'course. the Red Hen is InoI'e for special
occasions than lirst dates (there are ten step—ups
ll-om the Red Hen ityou start so big).

.\lll1ough the prices are stc w. the food is
ama/ing. "l he l:d\\ard of Surry VA Peanut l"ed
.\'urr_\ano \\as an aina/ing combination of com-
meal “_iohnn_\ cakes" topped \\ith perfectly cured
ham. pickled carrots. quail egg. and a surpI'is—
in«__vl_\ delicious maple hot sauce.

lot" the main course. I enjoy ed the special
ol'roasled duck breast on spael/le topped \\ ith
a chestnut sauce. lhe duck \\as phenoinenal.
and the entree ol‘ Shrimp Stalled V" ‘ginia (‘oast
Flounder pro\ ed to me that the chels at the Red

Hen can cook meat \\ith expert per-
The lish \\ as \\ ell bala-
nced \\ ith potatoes and‘
broccolini cm ered in a
jalapeno butter sauce (hot
‘trough to a\\e. bttt not to

shock).

I ended \\ith Dark Chocolate l3"‘te Noir for
o ganaehe

dessert. lleautiltilly presented est

topped uith homemade wliipped Ill, I could

not have picked a better treat. lhe Bete Noir is

easily split. and considering that Iny table at the
Red Hen was shared by the two of us, it was a

great date night dessert (no mess_ ‘Lady in the

'liI‘aInp“ style noodles. but still oh-so-romantic).
I,uek_\‘ for you. the Red Hen is lraviiig :1 Val-

entine‘s Day Special at 55 dollars per person for

a t'our—eourse Ineal. Il'you ean‘t make the Valen-
' ‘ ay event. the restaurant is liaving a “Vir-

‘l.o\ers“ liour-course dinner with wine

llth. The Red lien is a

e night setting with

fantastic food and a \\'0l‘l(lCl'llll atmosphere. Call
ahead for reser\ations (and seriously. call soon,
or you‘ll miss out on the chance to impress that

off and rest, or you could just decide to
keep driving until dawn.

If you are single on Valentine’s Day,
it’s the perfect night to catch up on amaz-
ing television. Start a 30-day free I-lulu
trial and enjoy the night in. Or Macado’s
is a great place to go with the gang for a
fun meal on the town without worrying
about all “the hype.”

Either way, Valentine’s Day is a great
excuse for everyone to indulge a little
and eat way too much chocolate. Don’t
worry if you forget to take my advice
now: l’ll have some last minute ideas for
you next week, so keep your heart and
eyes peeled!

T/ie Reef?-[en

signiﬁcant someone).

tine’s Day is here

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSTIY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS.

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG ,

ALLIE WEISS .
SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO
HAMLET FORT
LEAH GOSE
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
YEJEAN KIM

PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
MARIELPEARL
BAILEY RUSSELL
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS

MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which'can be reached at
mediaboard@w|u.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE_'
RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRlPT_|ON RATE $45

“Rise Up” to the challenge

By Josh White '
STAFF WRITER

Climbing is one of the few unique
outdoor activities that is not restricted to

"a certain time of year. That’s because it

doesn’t always have to be outside! Rise
Up Climbing Gym, located in nearby
Lynchburg, is only about an hour’s drive
away. A single adult day pass costs $13,
which includes access to all of the fa-
cilities and various walls. An few extra
bucks will cover the fee of equipment and
gear rentals.

Climbing is one of my personal favor-
ite activities, and it is a great way to relax
and have fun after a stressful week. The
combination of the adrenaline you get
from dangling up to forty feet in the air
(Rise Up’s highest wall), and the satisfac-
tion of getting in touch with your inner
primate, creates a uniquely exhilarating
feeling.

My experience at the gym was fantas-
tic: the friendly and laid-back staff is ea-
ger to make the best out of everyone’s ex-
perience, regardless of the climber’s prior
knowledge and history. The vibe in the
gym itself is chill, and the music selection
is very agreeable and suits the atmosphere
well.

V For those with more clirnbing_expe-

 

 

rience, the gym requires only a brief test
before you can belay (ﬁxing the rope
around a partner to secure yourself). For
the newbies out there, there is no better
place to start than here: the staff is trained
and have the resources on hand to teach
the belaying technique quickly, for only
a small price. There were a few people
on our trip who took the class for the ﬁrst
time, and were belaying each other on
their own that same day!

The gym consists of two sections, one
for bouldering and one for top rope and
lead climbing. For those with climbing
experience, the roped section of the gym
ranges through grade 5.12 (very high level
of diﬁiculty) and the bouldering section
up through v.7 (moderately-highly chal-
lenging level). Of course, there is a wide
selection of offerings for beginners as
well, with more than half of the gym de-
signed to be within reach for a ﬁrst timer.

Perhaps the best part about the trip

(or any outdoors trip) is getting to know

some people you might not have other-
wise gotten a chance to meet, or building
on previous friendships. What better way
is there to get close to somebody than to

  

trust them to be there and catch u if ou

C’/zeae it out!

7225  .S)t
Cg/uxﬁbmg, U19
24504

   

/434/ 845-7625

fall? Climbing itself is a very social ac-
tivity, and further opportunities await dur-
ing the scenic and mountainous drive on
the way to the gym. If you go with the
Outing Club, you are sure to make some
new friends, as well as have some great
conversations.

The next time you ﬁnd yourself with
free time, I highly recommend you go
climbing. Not only is it a great workout,
but it is also a great way to hang out with
friends. So quit wasting time, get your
game face on, and get out there!

 

 

 

MO N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&Iife

. Teac

By Cynthia Lam
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

What if you could change the lives
of young students everywhere? What if
you were given the opportunity to make
a real, lasting impact soon after gradua-
tion? What if you could pass on the love
of learning to ﬁiture generations, for
years ‘tocome’?

Photo courtesy of Wikimedia commos.

With Teach for America (TFA), you
can do all of this - and more. As one of
the most prestigious non-proﬁt organi-
zations to work for post-graduation and
one of Forbes’ 100 Best Companies to
Work For in 2012, TFA is dedicated to
making a difference in low-income com-

munities by producing lifelong leaders,
learners and educators.

For years, Washington and Lee has
maintained a strong partnership with
TFA. In fact, there are numerous alumni
located all across the nation who are
currently teaching or have ﬁnished their

time in the corps.

Joining the ranks of these dedicated
advocates will soon be the 13-17 seniors
from the class of 2013 who have been
accepted to the highly competitive pro-
gram and have committed to teach in
socio-economically disadvantaged com-
munities all over the country.

Some of these students have always
been passionate about TFA’s cause.
Many of them, however, had never even
considered TFA or teaching post—gradu-
ation until a few months ago, when they
learned about the organization and its
goals. A
According to its website, TFA aims
to “provide an excellent education for
kids in low-income communities... [by
recruiting] a diverse group of leaders
with a record of achievement who work
to expand educational opportunity.”

Selected students are placed in a
low-income community to teach for two
years, as part of a nationwide movement
to help the 16 million impoverished
American children overcome education
obstacles and achieve at the highest lev-
els.

Said TFA Recruitment Manager for
W&L Dana Cronyn, who taught biology
while serving as a 2010 Charlotte TFA
corps member: “Growing up 1 had an
excellent public school education that
provided me every opportunity 1 have
today and connected me to my passion.
Upon coming to college, I began to real-
ize that for the 16 million students grow-
ing up in poverty today, education does
not afford them opportunity.”

Added Cronyn: “After hearing ‘sto-
ries of TFA corps members changing
the lives of their students—helping stu-
dents attend college, taking students on
trips abroad, and teaching students to
love leaming—1 knew there was no bet-
ter way for me to have an impact after

h for America touches lives

graduation.”

In selecting its newest teachers, TFA
looks for candidates with “a deep belief
in the potential of all kids and a commit-
ment to do whatever it takes to expand
opportunities for students, demonstrated
leadership ability and superior inter-
personal skills to motivate others, and
respect for individuals’ diverse experi-
ences and the ability to work effectively
with people from a variety of back-

grounds,” among various other criteria.

“W&L students are uniquely poised
to make an impact in classrooms because
of the university’s strong emphasis on
achievement—both academically and as
campus and community leaders. Those
skills transfer directly to the classroom
and give W&L students the opportunity
to make a lasting impact,” said Cronyn.

TFA is currently the school’s top
employer, with the highest number of
students working with the organization
after graduation.

The ﬁnal application deadline for
TFA is Feb. 15. Seniors who are inter-

ested in pursuing this work can still ap-‘

ply, and any underclassmen who want to
learn more about TFA are welcome and
encouraged to contact Kalli Havens ‘l3.

“Your ﬁrst job out of college should
be one that helps you build to your fu-
ture career goals. Don’t be afraid to take
on a challenge and leverage the skills
you’ve been developing for the last four
years,” said Cronyn.

“There is no more prestigious, im-

, portant work after graduation than shap-

ing the future of our country. Imagining
a world where every politician, CEO,
and doctor has changed the lives of low
income students is why I continue this
work today.”

 

Business office _
offers direct deposit

ByAthena Cao
STAFF WRITER

Students no longer have to walk all
the way over to the Business Office to
get refunds. According to Associate Trea-
surer and Controller Deborah Caylor, the
Business Office now offers deposit reim-
bursements and account refunds directly
to students’ bank accounts. Students who
have set up direct deposit for their pay-
rolls need to sign up again in order to get
reimbursements and refunds.

Financial aid students or anyone who
has a credit balance in the university ac-
count can now get disbursement of re-
funds directly to their bank accounts.
Financial aid disbursements of refunds
for undergraduate students are made af-
ter Jan. 15th in the winter term and Sept.
15th in the fall term. Students who are
off campus during spring term can be re-
funded for the cost of the meal plan after
notifying Auxiliary Services:

To sign up for a refund deposit, a stu-

dent must have a bank account with an

American Banking Association (ABA)
routing number. Although the registra-
tion window is located in the Employees’
section in WebAdvisor, a student does
not need to be a student employer or a
work study student to sign up for the ser-
vice.

On the Employees page, click on
“Accounts Payable (Non-Payroll) Bank
Information (U.S.)” under the Finance
Information section. Then choose De-
fault Bank Account Information and
click “submit.” Fill in the required in-
formation, including the routing number,
account number, and account type, then
agree to the terms and conditions to sub-
mit the completed application. A conﬁr-
mation e-mail will be sent after the direct
deposit becomes effective.

For more information on how to set up
this service, contact the Business Office
at business@wlu.edu or call (540) 458-
8730 today.

   
       

Finance Tip of the Week: Save 57. of
your income for a rainy day fund. a

Saving money can be hard for a college student, but saving
a little bit at a time, consistently over an extended period, can

make a big difference when an emergency hits!

Meet Shana Levine ‘11

By Lindsey Burke
5 TA F F w R IT E R

For Associate Athletic Director Sha-
na Levine ‘ 1 1, her love of sports and
Washington and Lee never died post-
graduation.

After receiving an Bachelor of Arts
in Biology from W&L in 2011, earning
a law degree at the University of Pitts-
burgh, and working at the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association (NCAA) for
ﬁve years, Levine found herself back on
campus.

“I missed being on campus and see-
ing the rewards of that,” said Lev-ine. “I
love it here.”

Levine can be found in numerous lo-
cations around campus. As the Associate
Athletic Director, she oversees all athlet-
ic facilities, events and sports clubs, and
handles dining for sports teams. In addi-

 

tion, she teaches a spring term “Women
in Sport” class, and instructs Sports Cir-
cuit and Cycling classes every week.

During her time here, Levine was a
four-year letter winner and a team cap-
tain for the W&L soccer team; she then
served as an assistant women’s soccer
coach at Carnegie Mellon University.
Now, she incorporates her leadership
and team experience into her group ex-
ercise classes.

“My classes bring the team sport
mentality and carry it over to the gym,”
said Levine. “I pull a lot of exercises
from past workouts that I’ve had to do
as an athlete.”

Levine eliminates monotony from her
Cycling classes by replicating an outside
bike riding experience. A representative

the house was vacant.

 

[GREEK ll-.[lFlE lt\lllE'l*llll§:
EJEEJ '\1?'@llll E§[l§ll@l‘ll’7'§’

By Christian Kennedy
STAFF WRITER

l]... The vacant Phi Kappa Delta fraternity house may be used next year for
upper-classmen housing. A tentative plan, which includes co-ed living,
with one ﬂoor for males and one ﬂoor for females, is currently in the works.

2:. The ”No-Tuesday”adjusted schedule of New Member Education has
been followed well by fraternities, with only one instance of a violation.

3.: Any fraternity which has been previously kicked off campus must fulﬁll
the criteria set by the school, as well as their own nationals, in order to
return. This may include paying back rent to the school for the years that

4]‘: The IFC has created a template for New Member Education to aid
fraternities that do not have a well-developed program. Members of the
IFC will be assigned to certain fraternities to discuss how a certain chapter's
program matches up with the new template.

5.. The "Lexington Triad” refers to the three fraternities originally formed
here in Lexington: Kappa Alpha at W&L, and Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma
Nu at VMI. All three were established during the Reconstruction period
following the Civil War. '

(5.. According to the U.S. News and World Report, W&L‘is the highest ranked
university out of all schools with student bodies that are over 50% Greek.

workout with continuous music is her
priority.

“I blend all of the songs together us-
ing software so there’s not a break [be-
tween songs],” said Levine. “ If you’re
outside climbing a hill, you don’t get to
stop every three minutes just because the
song changes.”

In Sports Circuit, she combines car-
dio and high repetition/low weight lift-
ing, while also using music as a tool
to keep her students engaged. Because
these classes are so different, Levine said
she couldn’t pick a favorite one.

According to Levine, her ability to
interact with students and athletes was

one of the main reasons she came back to ‘
\ W&L. Getting to know .her students on

a more personal level is an added incen-

.2)

tive for teaching group exer-
cise. In the Cycling and Sports
Circuit classes, she forms re-
lationships that go far beyond
the classroom.

“I really like how I get to
know students in a whole dif— _
ferent way in group exercise,”
she said. “It’s‘a great way to
see students with their guard
down, not worrying about
grades.” '

Students and faculty can
attend Levine’s Cycling class-
es on Tuesdays and Thursdays
at 12:15 p.m. Her Sports Cir-
cuit classes are Mondays and
Thursdays at 7:30 a.m. and
Monday evenings at 5 p.m.

  

‘B ‘ THE RING-TUM PHI 0

Wh did. ou.get involved with‘

the abors ervice League (NSL)?

For four years all students call
Lexington our home, yet, unless
wevare Eroactivelyseekin to learn
about t e agencies that
dents, we may as well be_estran ed
visitors. I got involved with NS to
learn about Lexington and the sur-
rounding area through service, and
to help other W&L‘studen_ts become
excited about serving their home.

What is_ your favorite aspect of
volunteering in exington.

The eople. Volunteering is one
form 0 networking. Some of the

service rendered may not be very

glamorous, _but eople notice and
appreciate it. I ave met tens of
community leaders and enuine-
ly kind-hearted people w o I am
lucky_to call friends through serv-
ing with them. i

What has been the highlight of
your winter term so far?

Organic chemistry.’ (Not really.)

elp resi- ‘

?SarahIrIardman «lg 

‘V  Meet the star of A rsenic and Old Lace, playing Feb.

.-

_Best part about winter in Vir-
gmta?_

Sunrise after a snowfall on the
Colonnade-. Magical.

Favorite class this semester?

Dean Strau han’s Marketing
Management US-211).. It’s a
business _ class yet is quintessen-
tially a liberal arts course because
of its seminar style. A very tan ible
subject with lots of real-worl _ap—
plication for all types of organiza-
tions whether they are corporate,
governmental, or nonproﬁt.

What are you doing over Feb
break?

I will be serving at a free clinic in
my hometown. i

What do you want to do when
you graduate?

Investment banking.
If_ you could make u your own

ipgtng Term class, w at would it
e.

Stephanie Foster ‘16

A swimmer speaks on the ODA CS, D—hall and more  if it it i ‘V

3-2

 

gnaw

Microﬁnance in F1_]l.
A George or Bob?

He’s on the currency for a rea-
son: George.

The best W&L tradition 
why? .

' Strong alumni ties. It is incred-
ibly easy to talk to any alum face-
to-face or on the phone. Graduates
are always happy to help current
students and given the diversity of
grofessionals, it’s not difﬁcult to

rid someone who has made it in
your dream career.

MONDAY,

= arie ear
TAFF WRITER

Bayan Misaghi ‘15g

This Nabors Service League Chair shares his insights

FEBRUARY 4, 2013

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

The coveted Spring Term brings more
than just a warm weather, interesting
academics, and frequent festivities. It
also offers some unique opportunities to
spend your four weeks challenging your
comfort zone and learning new skills,
all while earning a P.E. credit. Whether
you’re SCUBA diving in Lake Rawlings
or mountain biking on Carvin’s Cove,
you will enjoy your time taking a Spring
Term P.E.

Through SCUBA, students will learn
the procedures of open-water diving
and earn lifetime certiﬁcation through
NAUI. James Dick, Director of Student
Programming and Outing Club, leads
the course with instructors Pam and Matt
Landrum of. Roanoke Island Outﬁtters
and Dive Center. Students will spend
the.ﬁrst week of the course on campus,
in the classroom and the pool. The
course concludes the next weekend with
a camping trip and open water dives in
Lake Rawlings, Va.

Dick, who has been certiﬁed for about

10 years now, understands that diving for
the ﬁrst time can be a little nerve-wrack-
ing. But helping people get out of their
comfort zones to experience something
adventurous is truly remarkable, he said.

“One of my favorite experiences while
diving is to look at the beginner student’s
eyes underwater while they are doing it
for the ﬁrst time,” Dick said. “Their eyes
are usually really big, and they break
into a big smile and look so happy and
thrilled.”

Students can seek other adventures
while trekking the mountains surround-
ing Lexington and Roanoke. Washing-
ton and Lee’s Head Soccer Coach Rolf
Piranian has been offering a mountain
biking course every Spring Term for 25
years. With a bike as the only requisite,
beginners and up are encouraged to join.
Every Monday, the class will venture out
for an afternoon of prime biking.

“Prepare to break a sweat and prepare
to be physically challenged” Piranian
said The course progresses in difﬁculty,

with the longest rides range from one to
two hours.

Within Carvin"s Cove in Roanoke are
some of Piranian’s and the students’ fa-
vorite trails. From Enchanted Forest to
Songbird. these trails offer some really
enjoyable rides.

As one of the most popular P.E.’s,
Mountain Biking also attracts people of
the community. Furthermore, Piranian
noted that seniors who take the class re-
gret not taking it sooner. And students
who do have the opportunity to take it
early on in their college career often reg-
ister for it again.

So don’t be the one to regret never get-
ting SCUBA certiﬁed or mountain bik-
ing while you had the chance to during
school. Take full advantage of Spring
Term and register for one of the many
interesting and popular P.E. courses of-
fered.

55;.

-‘'‘.$‘‘ , ..

-“tit

Hz; /1; [it

Last weekend the -national spotlight
shone brightest on two College Basketball
powerhouses, Michigan and Indiana. In a
matchup between two top ﬁve teams (Indi-
ana ranked #3 and Michigan #1), the teams’
stars duked itout for supremacy and atten-
tion on the highest stage. Michigan’s Trey
Burke and Indiana’s Cody Zeller have both
made their cases for the Wooden Award,
which goes to the best player of the year.
However, the player who most deserves the
award this season plays in a conference far
away from conferences like the Big Ten and
the Big East. That player is Doug McDer-
mott, who is quietly leading #21 Creighton
to a 20-3 record and to the top of the Mis-
souri Valley Conference.

McDermott’s situation at Creighton is

very unique, as Doug McDermott is actual-
ly coached by his father, Greg McDermott,
who has been head coach of the BlueJays
for the past three years. Because of this
Doug McDermott is especially obliged to
play unselﬁsh, team basketball. This is well
reflected in the BlueJays’ team statistics.
Creighton is leading the nation in ﬁeld goal
percentage at 52%, and seventh in the na-
tion in points per game, with 79.0. This is
indicative of the unselﬁsh brand of basket-
ball the team has bought into.

Creighton’s team success has been im-
pressive, and has lead to more media atten-
tion, but Doug McDermott’s personal suc-
cess is truly what puts him head and shoulders
above the rest of the ﬁeld. Doug McDermott
is averaging 24 points and 7.3 rebounds in
only 31.1 minutes per game. McDermott
is the nation’s second =leading scoring, and
ﬁrst in points per '40 minutes. McDermott
does this all as an undersiied forward. He
has been considered a “twe§ener” without a

7,?

6.

real position. He" plays toomuchi like 
man to be considered a small forward, and’ .
at 6-8, he is slightly undersized for the vpow_- r

er forward position. This just dem”on'strates
how much . I F ' '
harder McDer-
mott I works
than everyone
else, a senti-
ment that has
been echoed by
his teammates.
McDermott

hustles hard ev-
ery game, and
for that reason
he draws a lot
of compari-
sons to former
Wooden Award
winner, Tyler
Hansborough.
With Creighton
poised to ﬁnish
out the season
strong, McDer-
mott should
have a great
post season,
boosting his
stock during * ‘ ‘ V

March Madness as the general public will
be able to see his unique andpotent ‘skill
set on National Television. Jimmer. Fredette
proved in 201 1 that the Wooden Award does

not always go to the best player in the stron-

gest conference. McDermott, based on his
skill set, statistical greatness, and‘ team suc-
cess will again show this to be the case in
2013.

It seems that a new la er has been in the
NCAA Men’s Basket al spotlight each week.
Which one deserves to be player of the year?

Kyle and Hailey give you their picks

\\\.\\\.‘x.‘\ \\\\\‘\\.‘s.‘\

» This season of college basketball has
been anything but predictable. It seems like
the number one seed is different every week,
and upsets are often you can’t keep track.

- The same can
be said for the
outlook of the
player of the
year. At the
start of the sea-
son Indiana’s
Cody Zeller
was lead-
ing the pack,
and at times
Duke’s Mason
Plumlee seems
like a shoe-in.
Both play-
ers are still
in contention
for the POY
award come
seasons end,
but frontrun-
ners including
Michigan’s
Trey Burke
and Creigh-
ton’s Doug
McDermott
are building their cases for the award with
each game.

Michigan’s Trey Burke is easily the best
point guard in the nation, and is arguably
the best player in the nation. He is currently
leading the number one team in the nation,

0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

sports

  pring Term PE offers uniqe experinces

Students biki down one of the trails

a

(pending the resultof the Indiana game)
with a commanding court presence. Michi-
gan’s only loss came with Burke’s worst
game of the season. He is a leader through
his dominating play and his conﬁdence in
the team.

Burke‘s biggest downfall is his lack of
spectacular numbers. He doesn’t lead the
nation in points, ﬁeld—goal percentage or
rebounds; his stat closest to commanding
is assists in which he stands at seventh in
the nation. While his name may not top any
charts, his game is the all around most solid.
He puts up consistent numbers each game.
He averages 17.9 points and 7.1 assists per
game. His game play reﬁects an unselﬁsh
player who uses his strengths to win the
game, whether that means taking the shot or
ﬁnding the man with the open shot.

Burke’s response to Michigan’s loss to
Ohio State has shown his resiliency and de-
termination to lead his team. A great team
that continues to show Burke’s skills sur-
rounds him. The fact that he is currently on
the number one team in the nation will only
help to bring more exposure to his great play
this year. Ifhe keeps up his level of play the
remaining two months ofthe season I think
we’ll see Michigan continue to dominate.
And if we see Michigan do well the remain-
der of the season, which includes two game
against Indiana and Michigan State and a
rematch against Ohio State, I think we can
consider Burke a top contender for the POY
award.

  

8 ' THE RING-TUMCPHI -

M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013

S p 0 T TS  

 

in the numbers
4-0

The run that the Boston Celtics have gone on since losing
Rajon Rondo to a torn ACL earlier in the season.Four-time
All-Star was averaging 13.7 points per game before the

season-endinginjury.

228

The total number of games in a row lost by the California
Institute of Technology baseball team before they defeated
Pacifica in the second game of their double-header on Sat-

urday. The team had not won a game since Feb. 15, 2003.

9ﬁ38J68

The new high school indoor 2-mile record. 16-year-old Mary
Cain set the record on Saturday at the New Balance Indoor
Grand Prix. She topped the old record, set by Melody Fair-

child in 1991, by over 17 seconds.

soapbox

‘‘I couldn’t be more optimistic about it
because the game of football has always
evolved... we’ve made changes to our
game, to make it safer, to make it more
exciting, to make it a better game for the
players, for the fans, and we have clone that
in ,a very calculated fashion.”

-NFLOommlselonerRo¢erGoodellaI'terbelri¢aslradlI'he
wouldwanthlschlldtnplqyfootball In an lnlnrvlewwlth
cBS’s'FaoetheNatlon'afawhoursbeforiethesuperBowl
onSundqy,fiomEsPN.oom

“We certainly want him back, but like with
any player, there’s a limit to where we’re
going to go. He's been a terriﬁc player for
us, he’s a fan favorite, he does a lot for our
franchise, but there is a limit.”

- NewYbrkGlanls co-ownerlohn Mara aboutlllctorcnz
when lalldngaboutcontracrswfdireportaronsaurrdqy.
Marasaldthatl-laleenNlcl¢s’oontractlsahI¢herpr1orltn
llomESPN.com

  I-i\thlef the Week

 

Senior Rachel Warrick lead the women’s
basketball team with a combined 32 points this
week against Virginia Wesleyan and Bridgewater.
She also tallied nine rebounds and ﬁve assists.

ondeck

Gennies u

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

Saturday Jan. 26, the Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team shot 51.9 percent from
the ﬁeld (27-52) to upend Virginia Wesleyan,
69-68, at the Warner Center. It was the first
time the Generals beat the Marlins since De-
cember 2, 2001.

The Generals led by one with 4:19 left on
the clock, before sophomore forward Patrick
O’Connor-nailed a three-pointer to up the lead
to four, 59-55. VWC’s senior point guard Tre
Ford scored a pair of free throws on the ensu-
ing possession to get back with two.

Senior forward .l.D. Ey pushed the advan-
tage to 61-57 with a layup with 3:20 remain-
ing. A couple of free throws by Chris Teasley
of the Marlins made it a two-point game with
just under three minutes left to play.

After an offensive rebound by ﬁrst-year for-
ward Andrew Franz, O’Connor nailed a comer
three while being fouled, and connected a free
throw to push the lead to six, 65-59, at the 2:40
mark. Senior guard Kelton Buchanan then got
two free throws to give W&L an eight-point

/at .~*

p',/

First-year Andrew Franz takes a shot
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

From the

By Pat McCarron
STAFF WRITER

Coach Marc Vartabedian
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

as

_ _ 

lead (67-59) with 2:18 left in the game.

VWC scored nine ofthe next 11 points, led
by a three and a layup by Teasley to get within
one, 69-68, with 25 seconds left. Then Teas-
ley stole the ball as the Gennies attempted
to break the Marlins’ press with 15 seconds
left. Teasley looked to have an easy layup to
steal the lead, but Ey blocked the ball into
the stands with 13 seconds left on the clock.
On the final possession the Generals defense
forced the Marlins into a long three-point at-
tempt that missed wide left.

Franz led the Generals, coming close to a
triple-double. He ﬁnished with 18 points (on
8-of-14 shooting), a career-high eight re-
bounds, and a career-high seven assists.

He clearly followed his motto, “You have to
tolerate the set-backs,” and came out on top.

“The fans bring a lot of energy to the game,
and we feed offof that,” Franz said about the
victory.

Ey led the team with 20 points and had eight
rebounds, four assists, three blocks and two

Last week, Washington and Lee announced
the hiring of Marc Vartabedian as assistant
coach for women’s tennis, ushering in more
than just a change in W&L’s coaching staff.

Coach Vartabedian has spent much of his
post-collegian years travelling from city to
city, and match to match. This is the type of
life demanded of professional tennis players.
For two years, Coach Vartabedian played As-
sociation of Tennis Professionals (ATP) Pro
Tour.

Now Coach Vartabedian ﬁnds himselfcoach-
ing in small-town Lexington, a sharp contrast
to his former on-the—go lifestyle.

“[Coaching in Lexington is] definitely a
change of pace... But it’s nice to settle in one
location. It’s the first time in two and a half
years that l’ve been in the same spot. lt’s very
relaxing,” said Coach Vartabedian.

A change of pace it is. From 2011-2012,
Coach Vartabedian traveled Europe com-
peting in professional doubles play, visiting
France, Italy, Serbia, Poland, Belgium and the
Netherlands.

Coach Vartabedian’s traveling continued
into last summer, when he served as the Na-
tional Team Coach for Tennis Europe. During
the tour, he coached nationally-ranked junior
players as they competed throughout Western
Europe. '

Coach Vartabedian began his coaching ca-
reer in 2008 as an instructor with the Southern

pset VaWes

steals. O’Connor added 11 points and tied a
career-high with six boards.

VWC started out with a 10-2 lead in the first-
four minutes of the opening half, but W&L
responded with an 11-2 run over the next six
minutes to take a 13-12 lead at the 9:49 mark.
The two teams went back-and-forth over the
ﬁnal 10 minutes of the half, with the Gennies
taking a 27-26 lead into, the break.

Along with their 51.9 percent shooting from
the ﬂoor for the contest, the Generals went
4-of-11 (36.4 percent) from the three-point
line and ll-of-16 (68.8 percent) from the char-
ity stripe.

The Marlins out-rebounded W&L, 37-31,
but the Generals had 19 assists compared to
eight for VWC.

The victory ended a 23-game losing streak to
the Marlins, and was the first home win over
Virginia Wesleyan for the Generals since Jan-
uary 2, 2000. It also ended VCW’s six-game
winning streak dating back to January 5.

 
 
  

pros to Div. III

California Tennis Academy. The organization
trains nationally-ranked high school juniors
and seniors.

Although a ﬁrst-time collegian-level coach,
Coach "Vartabedian already has considerable
coaching experience and knowledge from his
previous positions.

“I learned how to handle different players
and game types, because everyone has differ-
ent strengths and weaknesses. Coaching is all
about seeing what a player does well,” said
Coach Vartabedian.

Despite being new to W&L and perhaps un-
used to Lexington’s small community after
years on the road, Coach Vartabedian already
feels at home. Recently, he has been working
the men’s basketball game clock.

This year, the women’s tennis team will
adopt a new assistant coach. Coach Vartabe-
dian has already adopted a new lifestyle.

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 7 Friday Saturday
Basebaii vsRochester12and3pm
Menis Basketbaii vsE&H7pm atRandolph4:30pm

Women's Basketball vsE&H7pm atLynchburg7pm vsHol|ins2pm

Rid i n g at Bridgewater 4 pm at Randolph/Lynchburg IHSA Sweet Briar IHSA
W o m e n ’ s S w i m m i n g ODAC Championships ODAC Championships ODACs

T r a c k Lafayette—Rider Winter Games

W I, e S t I i n g ‘ vs Roanoke 4:30 pm at Gettysburg 12 pm

  

 
 
 

 

