 
  

  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
     
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
    
     
    
   
   
    
    
    
    
 

   

...a tin roof in the trees: your only clue to
the treasure that awaits you, s ‘

ARTS & LIFE / page 6

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENITS SINCE 1897

    JWASIIINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY    -  

’ THE RING-TUM PHI.

Effectiveness gets
new leadershi

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WRITER

Washington & Lee recently wel-
comed Mr. Bryan Price as the new Assis-
tant Provost for Institutional Effective-
ness. This Oﬂice of W&L is responsible
for compiling data regarding a wide
range of topics and providing analysis to
assist departments and individuals both
inside and outside W&L, according to
wlu.edu.

Price ﬁlls a role once held by Ms.
Debbie Dailey, who now acts as the
Associate Vice President for Planning,
accreditation and research at Delaware
Valley College in Doylestown, PA, ac-
cording to wlu.edu.

Price maintains 17 years of experi-
ence in an institutional research role,
most recently working at Virginia-Wes-
leyan University. He also held positions
at Eastern University in Philadelphia,
Pa., West Liberty University in West
Liberty, WV. and Salisbury University
in Salisbury, Md. According to Price, his
previous responsibilities at these institu-
tions included assessment, evaluation,
accountability, accreditation and plan-
ning.

Among the committee members in-
volved in the hiring process, experience
was an essential requirement. “We were
looking for someone who had a mastery
of data management, of assessment and
of putting quantitative measurements to
the University’s teaching mission,” said
committee member and English profes-
sor Dr. Marc Conner.

Dr. Robert Strong, Interim Provost
of W&L, agreed that hiring an individ-
ual with a signiﬁcant knowledge base in
higher education was necessary for the
office’s success. Strong said, “Because
Price had a similarjob in some ways, in
fact an even more elevated job at Virgin-
ia-Wesleyan as their Vice President who
reported directly to the President of the
University, he had exactly the creden-
tials we were looking for.”

Price made the decision to join
W&L’s administration for several rea-
sons. After having worked at Virginia-
Wesleyan for ﬁve years, Price believed
he reached all of his goals for the Uni-
versity. He said that multiple opportu-
nities became available, but W&L was
the right choice. Price said: “W&L ﬁts. I
love the location. I’m from Virginia and I
love the Shenandoah Valley region. And
when my family walked around the com-
munity, we found it to be very friendly.”

According to Strong, one of Price’s
biggest responsibilities is accreditation.
As the Assistant Provost of Institutional
Effectiveness, Prices serves as the ad-
ministrator of the Southern Association
of Colleges and Schools (SACS). SACS
accredits W&L through an evaluation of
detailed reports about students, employ-
ees, budgets and many other aspects of
the University. “Being the SACS ad-
ministrator is an important job because
SACS keeps track of what schools in the
south are doing and we need to make

sure we’re providing accurate informa-
tion,” Strong said.

As with any new position, Price ac-
knowledges that there will be challenges
ahead. “The biggest challenge is helping
people to understand that we’re partner-
ing together to demonstrate effective-
ness, not just to external alliances, but to
one another,” he said.

Price added that it’s also difficult, at
any institution, for other departments
and alliances to prioritize the needs of
the Oﬁice of Institutional Effectiveness
along with the needs of their own ome-
es and duties. Price recognizes that the
needs of his ofﬁce, such as ﬁling reports,
can be time-consuming. “The faculty
here is very committed to students, and
to the education of students and dialogue
in the classroom, so we have to find
ways to recognize and reward the effort
that goes into providing that evidence to
our audience,” Price said.

The Office of Institutional Effective-
ness also provides an important resource,
the Fact Book, that is a compilation of
data about the University. The document
can be found on the University web page
for the Ofﬁce of Institutional Effective-
ness and according to Strong. it is a
source of information that more students
should be aware of.

The Fact Book includes data about
the different states and countries in
which W&L students are from, popular
majors of the University, and reports

SRC brings admissions to life

Recruitment committee oﬂers prospectives a picture of life at W&L

By Hamlet Fort
5 TA F F w R I T E R

September is a busy time at W&L
- students are growing accustomed to
juggling classes, sports, parties and ex-
tracurriculars. Most are deciding if they
want to join a student organization and
those who head them are mostly just get-
ting started. There is one group on cam-
pus, however, that hits the ground run-

ning with the new term, as their job starts ‘

when the ﬁrst prospective student arrives
to visit the Hill.

The Student Recruitment Commit-
tee (SRC) is a student-operated group
of individuals who attempt to “provide
the best possible W&L admissions expe-
rience to prospective students and their
families, through comprehensive, infor-
mative tours, blog posts and other com-
munication initiatives that highlight the
many advantages of a W&L education,”
according to their blog.

SRC members are perhaps most well-
known as the students who give tours to
groups of prospective students and their
families. However, according to Lizzie
Engel ’l3, Vice President of Commu-
nications and Recruitment for the SRC,
the Committee does a lot more than just
giving tours. '

“We maintain a blog (wlusrc.word-
press.com) that all of our members can

post to. We use this to give prospective

Cheese To You shop, ‘a hike on Jump
Rock Mountain and other daily events
that make W&L unique.

“T he Oﬁice is constantly adapting the ways they

recruit new students to go with the changing times, ”

says Engel. “More emphasis is placed on technol-

ogy as a recruitment tool and we are trying to take

advantage of that. ”

Lizzie Engel, VP of Communications and Recruitment for the SRC
 

students a taste of what life at W&L is
like for actual students, people just like
them,” Engel says.

The daily life of students at a uni-
versity is usually towards the top of the
priority list for prospective students.
Beyond academics, athletics and extra-
curriculars, students want to know what
their life is going to be like at their school
- and the SRC‘ gives prospectives an idea
of life at W&L. SRC members post to
the Committee’s blog about things like
the new Lexington Coffee Roasters and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The SRC does not review applica-
tions or make admissions decisions -
that’s the job for the Admissions Office.
That does not mean they do not work in
tandem, however.

The Admissions Ofﬁce’s schedule
is picking up steam, and the Office is
molding its recruiting strategies as pro-
spective students change. Admissions
counselors are currently in the “travel
season,” where they travel all over the
country and world visiting high schools
and college fairs advertising W&L.

“The Office is constantly adapting
the ways they recruit newstudents to go
with the changing times,” says Engel.
“More emphasis is placed on technology
as a recruitment tool and we are trying to
take advantage of that.”

The Admissions Ofﬁce is heavily in-
volved in social media, as they maintain
their own blog (wluadmissions.com), a
Twitter and Facebook page, and other
media as an effort to reach out to stu-
dents today who are constantly “tuned
in.”

The SRC is a competitive group, and
applications from current students are
extensive and involve an interview pro-
cess. The Committee takes applications
later this year and those who they ac-
cept begin a “training” process of giving
tours.

To contact the SRC, visit their blog at
wlusrc.wordpress.com.

tutionat effectiveness.

about student engagement on campus.
Strong said: “We come off really

well. In the report you’ll be able to see

that W&L students say they study more

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 3

hours than elsewhere, and when asked if

they have access to their professors, we
get very high scores.”

Hearing board hears
new procedure

By Douglas McNiel
STAFF ,WRITER

The Student Faculty Hearing Board
(SFHB), a conduct committee that deals
with cases of sexual misconduct, hazing
by non-Greek organizations and dis-
crimination, has decided to switch to a
civil rights investigating procedure for
this term.

The SFHB is a committee under the
Executive Committee (EC) composed of
four faculty members and four students
appointed by the EC.

This summer, two of the administra-
tion members attended a training session
in Atlanta hosted by the Association for
Title IX Administrators. The administra-
tion members who attended were Jason
Rodocker, the Assistant Dean for First-
Year Experience, and Lauren Kozak, As-
sistant Director of Career Planning in the
Law School.

At the convention, they learned how
to carry out the new civil rights inves-
tigation procedures. Rodocker said the
“civil rights investigation procedure is
part ofthe University’s continuing effort

will meet the complainant, respondent
and any witnesses and take down each
of their versions of the story. The two
investigators will then use the facts to
write a summary of the report and this
report will be the one used in the trial or
meetings with the committee.

With this process, the victim does not i

have to tell his or her story more than
once. The complainant, respondent, and
witness(es) may have to answer any
questions the SFHB has, but they will
not have to retell their stories.

Caroline Schmidt, Senior Member of
the SFHB, said with the new method of
investigation, “the investigators will be
able to develop a list of undisputed facts,
so that by the time it gets to the Board,
the hearings are shorter and less difficult
for the parties involved.”

The SF HB decided to give this inves-
tigational procedure a try because it has
worked well to increase the number of
incidents reported at other schools. At
the University of Richmond, the number

he investigators will be able to develop a list of

undisputed facts, so that by the time it gets to the

board, the hearings are shorter and less dﬂcult for

A the parties involved”

Caroline Schmidt, Senior Member of the SFHB

to increase reporting and maintain a fair
and equitable process.”

The new investigation procedure is
expected to increase the amount of is-
sues reported because it minimalizes
the amount of times the victim has to
recount his or her story.

Often times, victims of wrongdoings
that fall under the jurisdiction of the
SFHB are reluctant to report their cases
because they do not want to have to re-
tell their story over and over again.

In the new process, two investigators

of reports increased by 200 percent, aﬁer
the civil rights investigating procedure
was implemented this term.

The SFHB would like to remind the
community that students should not be
afraid to bring a complaint forward.
There are numerous peopleon campus
who are equipped to deal with these is-
sues such as Dean Jason Rodocker, Lau-
ren Kozak and any Conﬁdential and Im-
partial Resource (CAIR).

 

 

2

 

0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24,2012

 

Reacting to Innocence

Anti-Islam video sends shock waves around the world, the country and W&L

By Allie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR V

Nakoula Basseley, a 55-year-
old California resident with a his-
tory of serious ﬁnancial problems,
jail time and failed business ven-
tures, is the man believed to have
been behind the recently-released
“Innocence of Muslims” ﬁlm.

Nakoula, an Egyptian-Ameri-
can Coptic Christian, said that he
graduated from the Faculty of Arts
at Cairo University.

In 1997, after a slew of ﬁnan-
cial issues, Nakoula was arrested
aﬁer having been found in posses-
sion of ephedrine, hydroiodic acid
and $45,000 in cash. Charged with
intent to manufacture methamphet-
amine, Nakoula pleaded guilty and
served one year in prison.

In 2010, Nakoula was again ar-
rested for bank fraud, as his most
recent hobby was stealing identi-
ties in order to open bank accounts.
While serving a two year sentence
for his most recent transgression,
Nakoula sat down and began to
write down thoughts he had for a
ﬁlm script.

He was released in 2011 and
moved into a halfway house. Just
months later, he began production
on the movie that would lead to
dozens of fatal protests across the
globe.

“Innocence of Muslims” is an
anti-Islam ﬁlm which characterizes
the Muslimpprophet Muhammad as
a homosexual, philandering child-
abuser who spouts foolish thoughts
and makes a mockery of the Islam-
ic religion.

The ﬁlm begins with Egyp-
tian Muslims attacking Egyptian
Christians by buming down their
homes, all the while the Muslim
police stand by and make no move
to interfere. A doctor and his fam-
ily take shelter in their home. The
father tells his daughter that Mus-
lims want to kill all Christians, and

 

the police, being Muslim, will not
stop them.

Later in the ﬁlm, the main
character, Muhammad, is told by
his wife that the Qur’an should
be written by mixing parts of the
Torah and the New Testament to-
gether, creating a false book of
verses. The character proceeds to
be shown having sex with his wife
and other women, allowing the
sexual abuse of children and ad-
mitting that he is gay.

The ﬁlm was shot in 5 days,
and was originally titled “Desert
Warrior.” Cast members were told
that the plot was about the after-
effects of a comet’s crash-landing
on Earth, and the battles which the
event provoked. The original script
had almost no religious content. In
fact, the anti-Islamic content was
added post-production by means
of overdubbing. Actors had no
knowledge that such editing took
place.

The movie was shown to the
public only once, as it was played
for an audience of 10 people at the
Vine Theater in Hollywood. The
ﬁlm itself was not the source of the
riots. Rather, the problem stemmed
from the 13 to 14 minute “trailers”
of the ﬁlm which were uploaded

9.

Anti-Islam video sparks Anti-American protests be-gininig in the Middle

East, Asia and Africa and moving into Europe.

onto YouTube by Sam Bacile (later
discovered to be the pseudonym
that Nakoula used).

On July 14, these trailers were
uploaded onto YouTube in the
original English. In early Sep-
tember, the trailers were uploaded
onto the website after having been
dubbed in Arabic.

7 On Sept. 8, an excerpt of one of
the trailers was played on Al-Nas
TV, an Egyptian television station.

Sept. ll saw a group of over
2,000 protestors scale the walls of
the U.S. embassy in Cairo and tear
down the American flag, replacing
it with the Islamic ﬂag. To the east,
protestors burned the US. consul-
ate and killed U.S. Ambassador J.
Christopher Stevens, along with
three of his colleagues.

The next day. President Obama

publicly addressed the video and
the reactions to it, saying: “No act
of terror will ever shake this great
nation. Justice will be done.”

Sept. 14 hosted a range of vio-
lent events. Protesters advanced
on a Multinational Force and Ob-
servers compound in Egypt, killing
two members of the peacekeeping
force.

In Tripoli, they set ﬁre to Amer-
ican fast food stores. In Sudan,
they stormed the U.S. embassy and
assaulted the security, leading to
three more deaths.

India saw protestors throw-
ing stones at the U.S. embassy in
Chennai.

In Pakistan, the crowds outside
the U.S. embassy demanded that
the producer of the ﬁlm be killed.
Further east, outside the U.S. con-
sulate, they burned the American
flag.

Tunisia received probably the
worst blow of the day, as not only
did rioters invade the U.S. em-
bassy and set trees on ﬁre, but they
also set the American Cooperative
School of Tunis ablaze, risking the
lives of children in grades Pre-K
through 12. .

Sept. I5 was the day that 46
were injured and four were killed

outside the embassy in Tunisia.
The U.S. government urged Amer-
ican citizens to leave the city.

September I6 saw police use
tear gas against the hundreds of
demonstrators that approached the
U.S. consulate in Karachi, Paki-
stan.

500 protestors attacked the U.S.
embassy in Jakaita on the 17th.

A suicide bomber killed 14
people in Afghanistan on the 18th.
And on the 20th, I00 young chil-
dren were caught on tape chanting
anti-American speech in Pakistan.

Such events have spread
throughout the Middle East, Asia,
and Africa, and have seeped into
Britain, France, and Australia.

It is speculated that Nakoula
had anticipated such a reaction.
Muslim ﬁlmmaker Kamran Pasha

has said ofthe ﬁlm. “I am of the
opinion that it is a ﬁlm of ques-
tionable artistic merit, backed by a
group of bitter bigots whose only
agenda was to incite hatred and
violence by smearing the character
of Prophet Muhammad.”

Since the attacks began, You-
Tube has faced pressure to remove
the video from the website. The
White House has asked for the
video to be taken down, question-
ing whether the ﬁlm breaches the
website’s own restrictions.

Washington and Lee students
are largely of the opinion that the
video should remain on the web-
site. The majority of polled stu-
dents reasoned that the reactions
in the Muslim world stem at least
partially from a mob mentality,
and that all this video has done has
been to provide an excuse to lash
out against America.

Google has stated that the video
is within the guidelines and will
remain on YouTube. However,
given the reactions, access to the
video has been limited in Libya
and Egypt.

But the White House is not the
only organization ordering that the
video be removed. After YouTube
refused to take the video down,

the government of Afghanistan
blocked the website altogether.
Following suit was Saudia Arabia,
Indonesia and India.

Cindy Lee Garcia also has a
stake in the video being removed.
An actress in the movie, Garcia is
suing Nakoula, claiming that she
is the victim of fraud, invasion of
privacy, and misappropriation of
her likeness.

“He said he wrote the script
because he wants the Muslims to
stop killing,” Garcia said in an in-
terview with CNN. “I had no idea
he was doing all this.”

Cast members of “Innocence”
released a statement last week say-
ing they were “extremely upset
and feel taken advantage of by the
producer.” Further, said they are
“deeply saddened by the tragedies
that have occurred.”

Garcia claims to have received
death-threats since the attacks
started. Her request to have the
video taken off the YouTube web-
site was denied by Los Angeles
County Superior Court Judge Luis
Lavin as a result of a federal law
that protects third parties from li-
ability for content they handle.

In an interview with the Asso-
ciated Press, Jeremiah Reynolds,
Los Angeles attorney and special-
ist in intellectual property and
First Amendment cases, notes,
“Although it is a much more seri-
ous situation, the [legal] analysis
should be the same. It’s an act that
is protected by the First Amend-
merit.”

Meanwhile, Nakoula has disap-
peared. Having lived until recently
at his home in Cerritos, CA, he
packed up his family and slipped
quietly into the night on Septem-
ber 16. His whereabouts today are
unknown.

 

 

\‘~“

' ~‘7II0'19 "-
By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

23 Americans found guilty of
abduction of Egyptian cleric

A group of 23 American citizens — 22 of whom were CIA
agents — were found guilty by Italian appeals courts for the
abduction of an Egyptian cleric, Abu Omar, from Milan. The
abduction took place in 2003, however the courts have just re-
cently come to a ﬁnal sentence. Ofﬁcials believe the agents are
living in the US and are thus unlikely to serve their sentences.

French magazine publishes
controversial cartoon '

Last Friday, a French magazine published a cartoon that
depicted the Prophet Muhammad. The cartoon could be taken
as highly offensive to Islamic societies, especially in the wake
of the anti-Islam video, “Innocence of Muslims.” As a result,
France is closing their embassies and schools in 20 countries.
French security has also been deployed as a precautionary mea-
sure in these areas. A

Russian executives plan for
nuclear expansion

Russian executives are throwing themselves behind the
“nuclear renaissance.” The country is currently making plans
for nuclear expansion both at home and abroad. According to
research conducted by the Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting,
Russia plans to have 38 nuclear reactors at home and 28 over-
seas by 2030.

Suicide bomber in Somalia
kills at least 15 people

Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, was attacked on Thurs-
day. A suicide bomber targeted a restaurant in the center of the
city. At least 15 people were killed and several more were in-
jured. Among the dead are two Somali journalists. Many oﬁ’i-
cials believe the restaurant was targeted because it is a popular
place for journalists, government workers, and foreigners. This
bombing follows a failed assassination attempt on the new So-
mali president.

Iran and Israel in conflict over
nuclear free Middle East

At the annual meeting of the UN atomic agency, Iran and
Israel reached a point of great conﬂict. The agency’s efforts are
aimed towards creating a nuclear weapon free-Middle East. Iran
pointed a ﬁnger at Israel, as it is the one of the only countries
of the I55 included in the meeting that has not signed onto the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Meanwhile, Israel pointed a
ﬁnger at Iran for continuing to proliferate while hiding behind
the ruse of the‘ treaty.

80 percent of W&L students polled said that YouTube should
leave up the trailers for “lnnocence of Muslims.”

 

  

 

  

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 Health Center readies for ﬂu season

The student health center oﬂers ﬂu shots for students in order to prevent outbreaks in the upcoming season

   lPoliti

 

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

In 2009, W&L was one of the ﬁrst
college campuses to be struck by the

out, and W&L could be ‘assured that it.
was prepared to deal with any ﬂu that

he larger proportion ofthe student population

that we can get immunized, the faster an outbreak

stops because there is not as much of a-susceptible

population to spread it to. ’

Dr. Horton, Student Health center

1

swine ﬂu epidemic. According to Dr.
Jane Horton, Director of Student Health
and Counseling Services, the school
quickly involved the Health Department
and Center for Disease Control, keeping
the ill-stricken in the Health Center and
Woods Creek apartments.

“We were following the recom-
mendations from the CDC at that time,
which was to isolate anyone who was
confirmed to have swine ﬂu for seven
days,” said Horton.

The school was having press confer-
ences, notifying parents, and taking ini-
tiative to educate the student body about
ﬂu prevention. With time, however, stu-
dents were healed, the disease ﬁzzled

came its way.

This year, the Student Health Center
is offering ﬂu shots 24/7—with the ex-
ception of mealtimes from 12 p.m. to 1
p.m. and 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.

The Health Center is adamant about
encouraging students to get their shots
soon. According to the CDC, it takes
two weeks after vaccination for the body
to build up immunity to inﬂuenza, and
although this is a short amount of time,
some say that it is better to get vaccinat-
ed now rather than later.

“We encourage people to start get-
ting them now—late September to early
October,” said Horton. She added that
the ﬂu has been seen at W&L as early as

mid-December before exams, but most
often in January, February, or March.

“If the only time you can come and
get your ﬂu shot is one in the morning,
we are here,” said Horton.

The Health Center will also be offer-
ing “Flu Vaccine Clinics” on Oct. 10 on
the main ﬂoor of Leybum Library from
9:30 to 11 a.m. and outside the Market-
place from ll:30 am. to l p.m., as well
as Oct. 16 from 11:30 a.m. to l p.m. out-
side the Marketplace and from 1:30 p.m.

. to 3 p.m. outside ofthe library. A $20 fee

will be charged, but students will receive
a receipt for their insurance and hope-
fully be able to swipe home. V

Even if a student is not vaccinated
by December, Horton assured students
that they can still get vaccinated into the
winter.

“We will still give them during winter
term or any time after we start seeing ﬂu-
like illness,” Horton said.

Horton said she encourages everyone
to jump on the bandwagon with the other
400 to 600 who usually get vaccinated
annually by the school.

“The larger proportion of the student
population that we can get immunized,
the faster an outbreak stops because
there is not as much of a susceptible

population to spread it to,” said Horton.
She added that the ﬂu can spread fast

up to a week and a half,” said'Ho1ton.
”Missing school for a week during any

Flu Vaccine Clinic Dates/Locations

Oct. 1 0

9:30 a. m. to 11 am. —- mainﬂoor of

Leyburn Library

]1.'30.a.m. to I p.m.——outside the

Marketplace
Oct ; I 6

11:30 a. m. to I p.m.—- outside the

Marketplace

1 :30 p. m. to 3 p. m.-— outside of the

library.
$20 fee

at W&L due to sharing food and cups at
parties, where swine-ﬂu investigations
concluded were the breeding grounds
for the illness.

“The ﬂu can really wipe you out for

given term can make it really hard to

catch up.”

4

 

  

lorgs.

t the ground running

College Democrats and. College Republicans run initial meetings for the new school year and the new election season

By Richard Karlson
STAFF WRITER

College Republicans pacl<”Sailerno’s_forltA W

The College Democrats and College
Republicans have been hard at work for
the past few weeks in order to get ready
for the upcoming school year and the
upcoming Presidential election. Both
groups realize how important the com-
ing months will be for not only the Presi-
dential election, but also for the critical
Allen/Kaine US Senate race in Virginia.

The two groups ’ have expressed

how excited they are about the coming
months, citing their ﬁrst meetings of the
year as the source for their excitement.

The College Republicans met on
Sept.l6 at Salerno’s Family Restaurant
for their ﬁrst meeting; they had over 80
students attend, and over 40 of those
students signed up for volunteering op-
portunities, and another 10 students were
registered to vote in Virginia.

The College Democrats ﬁrst met on
Sept. 13 at the Hillel House, where 25
students attended; the meeting consisted
of hearing speeches from the two sec-
retary candidates within the group, and
spoke about the upcoming Romney-
Obama Presidential debate.

Both groups have been hard at work
advertising for their respective Presiden-
tial nominees, Mitt Romney and Barack

,  meie-tlngljl‘  the year. Over 80pstutientaiwerelinyattendance.

Obama.

The College Republicans have been
working at the phone bank at the Rom-
ney Victory Center in Buena Vista, as
well as going door to door in the Rock-
bridge County. They have also been rep-
resenting “Students for Romney” at such
rallies as the Labor Day Parade in Buena
Vista.

The College Democrats have been

working with the Organizing for Amer-

ica organization, which is the grassroots v

support team created to reelect President
Obama. The group has also said that
they knocked on over 1000 doors in the
Rockbridge area advocating for Obama.

Both groups are also looking to regis-
ter as many students to vote as possible
for the coming election.

 

 

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI '

M O N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

opinions

 

What would Bob do?

Does being a gentleman stop with lying, cheating and stealing?

By Julianna Satterly
EDITOR IN CHIEF

“We have but one rule here, and it is
that every man be a gentleman.”

becomes a part of us, and it deeply of-
fends us when someone breaks our trust.

Being a gentleman embodies civility and respect,
not just adherence to the law. He [Robert E. Lee]

expected more of us.

s

I’m sure all of you reading this can
easily name the man who said it. But
how many of us really think about what
it means? The majority of students at
Washington and Lee only see the Honor
System as it pertains to the student body
in three ways: lying, cheating and steal-
ing. For those of us lucky enough to
avoid a violation, the only tangible evi-
dence of its presence is the Pledge.

The Honor System is a truly impres-
sive institution, if you consider that it is
wholly maintained by students. It allows
professors to give take-home tests with
no fear, or for us to leave our laptops,
iPhones and tablets in the library for
hours. And most students believe that it
holds the same impact during a student’s
four-year tenure. Over time, students of
this University absorb the System_until
it permeates their own belief systems. It

The Honor System is not a guideline that
governs our time here; it becomes a ﬁber
of our being. ‘

From the outside, W&L looks like a
University full of upstanding and moral
citizens who live and breathe the mes-
sage of our fearless leader, Robert E.
Lee. When all other colleges fail to
trust their students, we stand as a shin-
ing beacon of morality and justice. And
for the most part, that is true. We do not
lie, cheat or steal, nor tolerate those who
do. Indulge me for a moment though, as
I burrow a little further below the surface
of a school where image is everything.
In my opinion, there is a rather large gap
between “being a gentleman” and spe-
ciﬁc instances of honor violations. What
about all the other acts I’m quite certain
Mr. Lee would never have considered
gentlemanly? When he created the Hon-

or System here he did not say, “We have
but three rules here, and they are that no
student will lie, cheat or steal.” No, he
said everyone should be a gentleman. If
you really ponder its meaning, he gave
us a blueprint for the rest of our lives.
Being a gentleman embodies civility and
respect, not just adherence to the law. He
expected more of us.

On the whole, I think we do a fantas-

 

tic job as gentlemen and gentlewomen.
In my two years here I have never had
to open a door if there was a guy within
ten feet of me. The two most common
words on the Hill are “sir” and “ma’am,”
and the Speaking Tradition is alive and
well. But we do have room for improve-
ment. Maybe we could adopt the aero-
nym WWBD—what would Bob do?-
for guidance. Think the next time you’re

about to become one of the rabid mob
that plagues the Windfall Traveller stop.
Or when you hear someone spread a ru-
mor about a girl in a different sorority.
It’s deﬁnitely not WWBD to brag about
your weekend hookups. Don’t think I’m
standing above you on a soapbox about
a mile high. I am guilty of all of these
gentlemanly crimes, just the same as ev-
eryone else. '

The '1: of gab

Politicians shoul ditch the TV teleprompter quips and get cracking

By Yates Wilburn
STA F F w R I T E R -

Growing up, Mom always told me,
“no one builds a stop light until some-
one dies in a car crash.” A harsh truth to
hear at a young age, yes, but it taught me
something crucial about human nature.

People will bury their heads in the
sand and avoid their problems as long as
humanly possible, only to ﬁnally address
them when someone gets hurt. We’ve
seen this on the international stage re-
cently through the ongoing violence in
the Middle East revolving around an am-
ateurish anti-Islamic video, resulting in
the deaths of US Ambassador to Libya J.
Christopher Stephens as well as several
across the region.

In a presidential election that has
been entirely consumed with the econ-
omy, jobs, and Congressional partisan-
ship, foreign policy has ﬁnally taken
its rightful place at the top of the list of
campaign issues. After all, representing
and protecting US interests abroad is one
of the few explicitly stated duties of the
President. It only took dozens of people
to lose their lives to get the candidates to
talk about it.

Until the recent violence, the
most we could get out of either Presi-
dent Obama or Governor Romney was
the occasional “China is cheating” or “a
nuclear Iran is unacceptable” or the al-

WASHINGTON AND In Uurvnzsmr

THE RING-TUMPHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-TUM PHI to
accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting the
Washington and Lee community for students, faculty, parents and
alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news affecting campus life
and to hold leaders accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering information that

prompts change. I

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a member of The'Medla Board,
which can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise
independent.THE RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and

advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-TUM
PHI staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of

libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI ‘
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEX-INGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

JP BEALL

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER '
GRAHAM COLTON

SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
JANEY FUGATE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
RICHARD KARLSON
MARGARET LEER
PAT MCCARRON
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
BAILEY RUSSELL
SARAH WARD
YATES WILBURN

ALLIE WEISS
COY FERRELL

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

ways fashionable “we’re winning in Af-
ghanistan” (something my mom also has
much to say about). The media and the
public at large might be able to get both
candidates to elaborate on their tax plans
for an additional 15 seconds, but any de-
tails on their foreign policy beyond the
usual sound bites was absolutely hope-
less.

Now, to be fair, the ‘President has

merit, “It’s the economy, stupid.” Only
when Americans outside of a warzone
are dying, do we as a nation require fur-
ther explanation of their foreign policy
agendas. And even now, it seems that
a large part of the discussion regarding
America’s geopolitical challenges (Iran,
Syria, the Middle East at large, the South
and East China Sea) revolves around
only two courses of action: full blown

The American people must demand more than just

one-liners from their candidates when it comes to

foreign policy.

delved into a bit more detail on his opin-
ions on Israel, Iran, and China, but only
because he’s already the President and
has the entire State Department at his
disposal to speak on his administration’s
behalf. Hillary ClintonAwho I as a Re-
publican would say has been a fantastic
Secretary of State-—has played a large
role in this matter, using her extensive
experience and knowledge to beef up the
White House’s foreign policy creden-
tials. Still, Mr. Romney has done his best
to give an opinion on particular foreign
policy issues when the context arises,
though not with nearly as much grace
and tact as he did in his 2009 book “No
Apology.”

All criticism aside, the candi-
dates are only responding to the interests
of their potential voters, who still hold
true to James Carville’s historic assess-

I

conﬂict or no action whatsoever.

Personally, I ﬁnd this disheartening.
It seems that the citizens of this country
have been conditioned to believe that if
we can’t make war, then we are utterly
hopeless to meet the challenges of our
generation.

A huge crux of America’s strength
is our ability to meet international chal-
lenges with a diversity of possible so-
lutions, both soft and hard power. Eco-
nomics, diplomacy, clandestine actions,
and yes, limited and large scale military
action can all be used and combined to
reach a preferable outcome for America
and her allies. However, since the Amer-
ican people have narrowed foreign poli-
cy down to war or no action at all, they
have received talk of little else from their
candidates when issues of international
relations come up.

My point is this: the American people
must demand more than just one-liners
from their candidates when it comes to
foreign policy. When a candidate says,
“As President, I will renegotiate our
trade relations with China”, ask them,
“How would you do that? Do you real-
ize the implications of such actions, or
even of such language?” When Gover-
nor Romney or President Obama says,
“A nuclear Iran is unacceptable”, ask
them, “What do you want to do about
it? Do you want to strike against their
nuclear facilities? What will China think
about that? Will the use of Azerbaijan’s
airspace for such a strike anger Rus-
sia in any way? What would you do to
prevent this from spiraling into a larger
conﬂict?” These are incredibly basic
questions that even someone as stupid as
I could at least start to answer with some
clarity. '

However, at least on the issue of
Iranian nukes, I won’t hold my breath.
With Republicans screaming for war
in Iran and Democrats refusing to “set
deadlines” it seems that war is the only
outcome through either tactic. In my
humble opinion, it seems that neither
party has ever played poker, and doesn’t
understand the value of protecting one’s
cards or a good bluff to force a peace-
ﬁsl resolution to a conﬂict of interests. I
shudder to think what would have hap-
pened during the Cold War if we had the
posturing, blabbermouth leadership that
we have today.

  

as ,

 

 

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

5 ‘I THE RING-TUM PHI 0'

 

pinions

_ A crime most fowl  

' How Californians ’ freedoms fall victim to ducking the issues

By JP Beall
OPINIONS EDITOR

This last summer, another substance
made it’s way onto the contraband list in
the great Fool’s Golden State amid tor-
rents of ﬁery controversy, and no, it’s not
tobacco or anything you can smoke. The
substance in question is the French liver
pate’, foie gras, which is now strictly
banned in both sale and production in the
state of California.

For the unfamiliar, foie gras is a paté
made from livers of farrn-raised ducks or
geese who are force-fed for a period to
make the liver larger and fattier. Animal
rights activists found the practice inhu-
mane and demanded California put a



stop to it.

The law stipulates that no bird should
be fed “more food than a typical bird of

the same species would consume volun-

tarily.” Between this, and other vagaries,
farmers are ﬁnding it impossible to com-
pete in the Californian market, a multi-
million dollar industry every year.

As of July 1, the prohibition passed
into effect. Anyone producing or selling

foie gras made from force-fed foul is to
be ﬁned as much as $1000 per day under
the new law.

The week before the ban dropped, the
news was ﬂush with reports of foie gras
parties, where restaurants in possession
of the illicit good were closing out their
stocks, drawing huge crowds to eat foie
gras like it was going out of style.

Producers ﬁled a request to halt the
enforcement of the law with the Los An-
geles US District Judge, Stephen Wil-
son, before it went into effect, but their

request was denied.

Said Brian Pease, the lawyer for the

Animal Protection and Rights League,
“It’s not a question for the courts to sec-
ond guess a political branch of govern-
ment.” ‘ .
Of course, the arrogance of Califor-
nian “open-mindedness” has caused a bit
of an international incident, by offending
none other than the French, for ignoring
the deep cultural roots in such a dish. An
oversight, I’m sure.

To many in France,foie gras is an im-
portant cultural institution, and the Cali-
fornian ban has drawn comment from

even the French president, Francois Hol-
lande.

Moreover, there is now a movement
in France now boycotting Californian

wines because of the ban, and a growing
lobby of French politicians who are eye-
ing wines as a way ofreturning the favor,
as they “feel compelled to react.”

In reality though, the ban of foie

compound interest, and then borrow
those funds to pay for Lord-knows-what
is another thing. Recently, four cities in
California have gone bankrupt. Nowhere
else in America has this happened.

State politicians are more concerned with the appe-
tite of ducks than with the general administration of

their state.

gras is not all that effective, because ac-
cording to today’s LA Times, high-end
restaurants across the state are already
beginning to give the pate as an accom-
paniment to the meal, “compliments of
the chef,” which is exactly what hap-
pened during Prohibition. One might
have thought legislators would have
studied those loopholes before passing
their version. One might have thought,
but apparently they didn’t.

California is called a “nanny state”
countrywide, and foie gras only joins
a distinguished and long list of other
goods to be made illegal by.Sacramento,
including most ﬁrearms, wood burning
ﬁreplaces, and spring diving boards, just
to name a few.

Tobacco is taxed at a rate of 32% and
there are always talks about further re-
stricting the already few locations avail-
able for smokers to use because of the
health detriments of smoke of any kind.
Of course, marijuana is hailed as a won-
der cure,'and appears to be exempt from
any arguments previously made against
other smoking substances.

Besides that, there are several other
things going on that ought to be outright
illegal. In times where states are begin-
ning to check IDs for voting, California
is issuing drivers licenses to undocu-
mented individuals, because state of-
ﬁcials do not ﬁnd that citizenship and
other government documents for proof-
of-residence are necessary anymore.

Heck, when I was in Chicago over
the summer, I needed proof-of-residence
to get a library card at the city’s public
library!

The ability for the government to
promise pensions without regard for

One such city, San Bemardino, was
in debt over $40 million and had been
cooking their books for twenty years.

Complaints against ﬁnancial mal-
practice at the city and county levels
have been brought to the state in the past,
and state officials as a manner of policy
turn such complaints back to the city and
county ﬁrst.

This is when I take issue with the
term “nanny state,” because California is
no such place. State politicians are more
concerned with the appetite of ducks
than with the general administration of
their state, which in times of economic
hardship and with the country’s largest
deﬁcit, is in some serious need of reform.

Don’t believe me? The state’s con-
stitution is a book, and it. has hundreds
upon hundreds of contradictory amend-

ments. It is impossible for any important *“

law to get through the Assembly and a

budget has rarely been passed on time T‘

years.
I hope that these examples have ‘yau
thinking. About your home state, /be it
Texas, Virginia, New Jersey, or wher-
ever. Times may be bad, but hopefully
this can give you a little more optimism
in your own respective areas. On the
surface, I give you permission to laugh.
It is funny, and with all the potshots ﬂy-
ing around during the Presidential cam-
paign, we all could use a little humor.
Also, I hope it has you thinking about
constitutionality. What should be and

what shouldn’t, because we are in times_

when even the most elementary concepts
of an American rule of law are coming
under question. And most importantly,
what are you going to do about it?'""

 

 
    
 

     
 
  

, Letter from the presidents: Calling all politicos!
It’s the most important publication. campus regarding questions many consequences, but
election in a generation! We understand that of the principle and the also allows us to shape
You ’ve heard this phrase College Republicans and practical. Moreover, we America for our generation
over and over again. Is it College Democrats do encourage everyone to be a and the generations to
pandering, or are we really not represent the entire part of it. follow. As voters, we ask
at political crossroads? political spectrum on This November, we you to engage in political
. This election cycle, campus. As such, there all bear a very real discourse, and value your
0' College Republicans and will be a short counter- responsibility - the duty citizenship.
College Democrats will point article accessible to of the active citizen.‘ Its a
begin a joint venture, any student for the topic is big responsibility that Lex, President of College
with the Ring—tum Phi following publication. ' _‘_ . carries Republicans
as our medium. Each We mean for thii .\ ' .0 I ‘ -7'   &
organization will choose opinion series ._ Todd, Presidentof
A a representative to author , to develop an College Democrats\'
.’ an op-ed; the topics and intellectual
authors will vary by conversation on
O

 

  

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

arts&life

 

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

Hillel honors High Holidays

Students, faculty, and community members gather to celebrate Rosh Hashanah with dinner, services and festivities

By Caroline Hamp
STA FF WRITER

Last week, Hillel celebrated Rosh
Hashanah from sundown on Sunday,
Sept. 16, to sundown on Tuesday, Sept.
18. For those non-Jewish folks out there,
Rosh Hashanah is the Jewish New Year,
and historically signiﬁes the anniversary
of the creation of Adam and Eve.

Here on campus, Hillel is an orga-
nization which strives to incorporate
student involvement in all aspects, and
Rosh Hashanah was no different. In-
stead of a Rabbi speaking during the ma-
jority of the evening service, students led
the way, reciting prayers and performing
rituals. One revered ritual was blowing
the Shofar, which is a ram horn blown
only during the High Holidays. Another
favorite was eating apples and honey,
because anyone in the Jewish commu-

  

nity will know about the importance of
food!

An estimated 70 guests attended the
dinner, and the crowd included law stu-
dents, undergraduates, and other people
from the Lexington community. Most
of them stayed for the service that fol-
lowed. .

“There was a great feeling of commu-
nity,” said Hillel President Sammy Ros-
ier ‘l4. “We had a
big group of people.
Alot of law students
showed up, plus we
have a good group
of ﬁrst-years.”

Thankfully, Hil-
lel has such a strong
sense of commu-

nity, because celebrating a huge holiday
away from family can be hard. Unlike
W&L’s Christian students who typically
go home during Christmas and the New
Year, Jewish students have to rely on
each other to observe this valued tradi-
tion. Family is a big part ofthe holidays,
and Hillel recognizes that fact.

‘‘It’s only the third year Hillel has
celebrated Rosh Hashanah in Lexing- _

 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 

2... .4...  .-

ton. In fact, it’s the third year that any
large group of people has celebrated
Rosh Hashanah in Lexington,” added
Rosier. .“It’s nice to see such community
involvement.”

Rosh Hashanah was certainly a hit,
but Hillel’s festivities don’t end there!
This upcoming week, Hillel will be
celebrating Yom Kippur, which is usu-
ally viewed as the holiest holiday for the

Jewish commu-

nity. It begins
at sundown on
Tuesday.

The two High
Holidays may
only be ten days
apart, but they do
differ signiﬁcant-

   

ly. In contrast to the celebratory attitude
of Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur is more
solemn and reﬂective. It is a time to ask
for forgiveness for sins.

“It’s not necessarily sad, though,”
said Rosier. “This holiday season is an
optimistic time. It’s like starting new.”

Yom Kippur’s events are completely
open to W&L students with an RSVP.

Hillel also participates in festivities out- ,

side of the holiday season: every Friday
night, it hosts a Shabbat dinner for all
campus and community members.
If you are interested in participating
in any of these events, please contact
Sammy Rosier at rosiersI4@mail.wlu.
edu or Brett Schwartz at bschwartz@
wlu.edu.

  

nfrm cruitmtzcoded   '

Informal recruitment got you stressed? Don 2‘ be; this could be a great few weeks

By Margaret Leer
STAFF WRITE R

Have you been noticing an unusual
amount of activity in the quad recently?
Or maybe you’ve been catching the
game at a fraternity house instead of
your dorm room? That’s right boys and
girls: informal recruitment season has
ofﬁcially kicked off. Whether you’re
drinking more coffee than usual or play-
ing video games with upperclassmen
guys, just the name “informal recruit-
ment” can be pretty intimidating.

The reality is, these should be some
of the most exciting weeks of your col-
lege career. Panhellenic Recruitment
Chair Kaelin Fraley ‘l3 said it best:
“Informal recruitment is such a positive
aspect of Washington and Lee’s recruit-
ment process [because] it allows all ﬁrst-
years, who are interested in joining one
of the chapters, the time to adjust ﬁrst to
the rigorous academic and social sched-

ules that can be so demanding when en-
tering a college community.”

The late recruitment process allows
each and every student to meet all of the
upperclassmen at Washington and’Lee,
a chance that isn’t even possible at most
larger schools. Said Fraley: “First-years

' have the opportunity to get to know up-

perclassmen on a personal level and ex-
perience many of the other great ways
they can be involved on campus besides
Greek life.”

Though the process can seem a little
nerve-wracking, Interfratemity Council
Vice President and Recruitment Chair
Jon Hale ‘l3 gives great advice “to
maintain a relaxed approach during in-
formal recruitment and enjoy the situa-
tion as much as possible.”

According to Hale, “the process
should be treated as neither an interview

nor a test, but instead as an opportunity
to meet fellow students and ﬁnd a sup-
portive niche in new social surround-
ings. While some of those hoping to join
the Greek system may hope to impress
with uncharacteristic behavior, I strong-
ly feel it is instead in their best interest
to present themselves candidly. This
should lead to students ﬁnding a fra-
ternity or sorority that most accurately
compliments their personality.”

So take advantage. of this time and
really get to know everyone on campus.
It’s one of the major pros of going to a
small school with a delayed rush system.
The Greek men and women of W&L
keep the tradition of recruitment alive by
making it a fun and positive experience
for everyone. You only get to go through
this process once - enjoy it!

In between spaces

Sophomore Janey F ugate reﬂects on her stay in Lexington is own Walden-inspired cabin

By Janey Fugate
STAFF wnmsn

",a'l.—’- ‘ «

. . '3.

Pictured above: A photograph of He

    

" 4,-.‘v 

nry David Thoreau’s actual

cabin at Walden Pond oustlde of Concord, Ma.

 

The glint of sunlight on the tin roof
led me to the cabin. I wouldn’t have no-
ticed it nestled in the forest otherwise.
Built by alumnus Henri Hammond-Paul
last year, the cabin is inspired by Thore-
au’s Walden and is intended to be a place
of rest and reﬂection.

Entering the cabin, the smell of raw
cut wood and spicy resin hits me instant-
ly. The austerity of the place strikes me
next. A coil of rope, a lamp, and a broom
are the only objects inside the cabin. I
found myself a little unnerved by its
emptiness. What do I expect to gain from
secluding myself for a night? I’m not yet
so tired of the academic grind and the
party scene that I need a break from it
all. Lacking an answer, I wandered.

I returned just before nightfall. It
came into my mind that if one comes to
the woods to seek true quiet he should
seek it elsewhere. Cicada chirps and
crow caws cut the air. A redheaded
Woodpecker hammered vigorously at the
tree trunk to my right. And if the tree is
nature’s harp, the wind is the muse that
plays it.- A

But it wasn’t as pleasant as all that.

The nastiest spider I’ve ever encoun-
tered disturbed me so much that I chose
not to sleep on the cabin floor. At around
midnight, I hiked to .a cattle pasture on
the other side of the woods and slept be-
neath the stars there.

Wood. Wild. Walden.

Those three words share the same
Germanic root wald. Variants of the root
have come to mean ‘.‘a wild place” or
a “wooded place.” I learned this from
reading Robert MacFarlane’s The Wild
Places. A professor at Cambridge, Mac-
Farlane writes about his solitary wander-
ings through the British Isles. In visit-
ing what he deems truly wild places, he
connects the physical nature of the place
with its history and with his own pres-
ence there.

While I would hardly call the back
campus woods wild, the idea of wild-
ness is woven into the very name of
the forest, the name of this cabin. Fol-
lowing MacFarlane’s thoughts about
the ability of the land to bear the emo-
tions and impressions of the people who
havecrossed it, I wondered about the
nature of this place and the land around

it. Forests have mythically been known
as “in between places.” I did feel very
in between, so to speak. In snatches, I
could hear music from parties ﬂoating
through the darkness - a reminder of
what I would be doing if I were not at
the Walden cabin.

So again, I wondered why I was there.
The answer I came to is this: I was there

to suck the marrow out of that place, to .

taste the forest in a way I haven’t before,
and to chew on thoughts that are born
from real solitude. I was there to ﬁll an
empty space.

Now, back to move within rhythms of 0

school, I carry with me a new thread to
weave seamlessly into the fabric of my
experience here. I believe that has value
in and of itself.

Let me end by answering the ques-
tion of why would I publish this, as it
is highly personal and doesn’t seem to
have a deﬁnitive purpose. I am not sure
myself. Perhaps I wrote this, because in
the words of Into the Wild’s Chris Mc-
Candless, “happiness is only real when
it’s shared.” So be it.

 

  

   
    
    

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

7 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

KYLE JAEGER

   

 

The college football Presidential Over-
sight Committee has voted to enstate a
four-team playoff system starting in 2014.
This seems to be a popular choice, as many
fans grew tired of the current BCS bowl
system. Many argue that change will be
good for the sport. I disagree. College foot-
ball, more than any other collegiate sport,
is steeped in tradition. The game has been
led by a select group of schools, based on
their storied success and commitment to
the game. A four-team playoff could take
away from the legacy and tradition that
football has always been deﬁned by.

Furthermore, the change in the BCS is
not drastic enough to make a great deal
of difference. Superpowers like Alabama,
LSU and USC will continue to make up
these top four teams. The biggest com-
plaint many supporters of the new system
have made in the past is that non-traditional
teams don’t get a fair shake. Will this real-
ly be different under the new system? This
system is not like March Madness, and it’s
not even like the NFL playoffs. Very few
teams will have a chance under this new
system, and it is likely that the ones who
do will be the same each year. Under the
old system, alternative teams could dream
of going undefeated and cracking the top
5, awarding them a bowl game. It seems
that under this new system the chances that
underdog teams will succeed in any form
is greatly reduced.

Fans are illegitimately excited about
this change. I am arguing that this change
is only marginal. A four-team playoff will

IIAILEY lI1\l{'l‘LllY

 

be exciting to watch,
but an eight team play-
off would be even bet-
ter. I believe that the
change the committee

 
       
  
  

This summer a
committee of col-
lege presidents ap-
proved a four-team
playoff system that

made should have been
more drastic in order to
make a difference. If a
playoff is going to be
enstated, why not cre-

The debate over whether colle e football
should have a bowl system or a ayotf system
has been going on for years. Co
is making the switch in 2014 and as stirred
the debate.
Kyle and Hailey give you their takes.

will end the reign
of the traditional
bowl system be-
ginning in 2014.
While the system

e football

ate a bigger stage?

The committee was
too worried about polarizing its audience,
and it limited itself because of this. I think
that the committee should have taken the
risk to make it eight teams because it was
one worth taking. Because the change in
the system is only a slight one, I believe
college football‘ would have been better
off sticking with the old systemjwhich
has been around since the beginning. If
the current system could create and estab-
lish the game we all love to watch, what is
the point in making a minimal change like
this one? The cons outweigh the pros here.
There are still lingering questions about the
selection process and revenue distribution.
It seems this issue is more complex than
a simple shift in postseason format. How
will the major sponsors of bowl games re-
act to this change? How will the various
prominent athletic conferences feel about
this change? This shift will create many
more problems than it will ﬁx. This an-
nouncement is just the tip of the iceberg.
In 2014, I believe we will see the problems
with this decision.

won’t be perfect,
(and probably nev-
er will be), it is a change that is needed
for the current college system.

Fans of’ Division 1 college football
have been treated to the sight of an SEC
team raising the crystal football for
the last six years, including last year’s
champions, the Alabama Crimson Tide.
The win by the Tide is a perfect ex-
ample of exactly why a playoff system
is needed. Alabama did not even win
the SEC‘ championship, and many ar-
gued that they did not deserve to play in
the national championship game. De-
spite this, Alabama went on to play in
and win the national championship in a
dominating fashion over LSU, the SEC
champions. Had the computer (don’t
even get me started) found Oklahoma
State to be the second best team in the
country, we could have seen a much
different result at the end of the season.

I think that the playoff system will
help improve the future of college foot-
ball. The addition of the system will
allow more teams, other than the com-
manding SEC, to be included in nation-
al championship talks. Yes, USC was

in there for a while, but really, we all
see how long that lasted. This season,
teams like FSU and Oregon will have
to wait for LSU and Alabama to trip up
before they can be in contention for the
national championship. And while a
win is a win, we can look at this week-
end’s games, LSU barely beat a strug-
gling, unranked Auburn, while F SU
had a commanding win over top ten
Clemson. The difference between» the
number two team and the number three

or four team may be inconsequential,"

like a last minute ﬁeld goal or a poor
call by a referee.

The playoff system is by no means
perfect. While this year we may argue
that the number three team deserved to
play in the championship, in two years
we may be arguing that the number ﬁve
team deserved to be in the playoffs.
We have to take what we can get; four
teams will be getting the opportunity
of a lifetime as opposed to just two.
Teams will need to show a little more
consistency to win the championship,
and they’ll have to play against the best
in the league to prove it. Potential BCS
busters will probably still be on the out-

side looking in, but the way divisions’

are changing these days, that may be a
shrinking issue.

The size of the league makes it im-
possible to make everyone happy, but
I believe that come 2014 we’ll see the
playoff as a major improvement to the
current system. Maybe we’ll see some-
one besides an SEC member take home
the one “W” that matters.

Generals split ODAC play this week

Ward takes charge against Randolph-Macon for the victory

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s soc-
cer team fell 1-0 on Saturday to Virginia
Wesleyan.

It is the ﬁrst conference loss for the
Generals this season.

The Generals had early chances
against the 14th-ranked Marlins but
were unable to capitalize. Just a few
minutes into the contest, the Generals
had back-to-back shots on goal. Mar-
lins goalkeeper, junior Erica Keil, saved
sophomore midﬁelder Haley Ward’s shot
before saving sophomore forward Katie
Rossi’s shot.

Ward led the way for the Generals

with ﬁve shots, three of which were on
target.

The main difference in the game
came in the 39th minute when ﬁrst-year
forward Samantha Sanders kicked a
loose ball from eight yards out past Gen-
erals goalkeeper Addie Healy.

Healy made two saves while playing
the entire 90 minutes in the net.

Earlier in the week the Generals de-
feated ODAC opponent Emory & Henry
3-0. Scoring for the Generals was Ward
and junior forward Jasmine Soo. Ward
scored her ﬁfth on the season on a pen-
alty kick in the 25th minute. Soo scored

her fourth and ﬁfth on the season in the
second half of the game.

The Generals dominated E&H, tak-
ing 20 shots on goal while keeping the
Wasps to just three. None of the Wasps’
shots were on target.

The Generals also took ﬁve comer
kicks while keeping the Wasps to just
one.

For the Wasps, junior goalkeeper Sar-
ah Jerome made eight saves while play-
ing the full time in the net.

After the weekend, W&L moves to
5-2 overall with a 3-1 ODAC record.
They host Bridgewater on Wednesday.

 

Forward Katie Rossi
Courtesy of generalssports.com

Football cruises past 23rd ranked Centre in home opener

Heinsohn leads the charge for the Generals

By Sarah Ward

STAFF WRITER

 

Running back Luke Heinsolin
Courtesy of generaIssports.com

 

The Washington and Lee football
team scored twenty unanswered points
to reach a 34-10 lead with nine minutes
left, leading to an eventual 34-16 win
over the Centre College Colonels in Lex-
ington last Saturday, Sept. 15.

Junior tight end Alex Evans made
two touchdown catches for the Gener-
als (2-l), accumulating 67 yards on three
passes from junior quarterback Nick
Lombardo. Evans posted the ﬁrst points
for W&L, making a 39 yard catch for
a touchdown with 12:31 left in the ﬁrst
quarter. Evans later capped a Generals’
fourth quarter scoring run with a 9-yard
reception in the end zone with 9:33 left
in the game.

Senior running back Luke Heinsohn
continued to show his versatility by rush-
ing for two touchdowns as well as suc-

cessfully scoring on three extra point kick
attempts. Heinsohn made a two yard run
across the goal line and then completed
the extra point attempt to give the Gen-
erals a 14-3 lead with two minutes left
in the ﬁrst quarter. Heinsohn later scored
with 3:55 left in the third quarter, making‘
a 28-yard run but missing the extra point
attempt. This marks the ﬁrst missed extra
point by the Generals in 104 attempts.

Senior running back Brett Murray
provided 120 rushing yards and one
touchdown for the Generals. His touch-
down came on a 17-yard run with 6:53
left in the second quarter.

The Generals’ defense played well
under the lights and provided opportuni-
ties for the W&L offense to get the ball
back and put points on the board. Junior
linebacker Peter Partee ﬁred up the de-

fense by blocking a punt after a failed
Centre drive to put the Generals on the
Colonels’ 38-yardline. Junior comerback
Mitchell Thompson was exemplary for
the Generals on defense with ten total
tackles, nine of which were unassisted.
First-year defensive lineman Patrick
Wright caused many problems for the
Colonels’ offense, making three tackles.
Wright also had one of three sacks for
the Generals.

Centre quarterback Heath Haden
passed for 311 yards and rushed for 28,
scoring a touchdown in the air as well as
on the ground.

The Generals look to continue a two-
game winning streak as they compete at
Guilford College in a 7:00 p.m. game on
Sept. 29.

Snyder earns his 350th win

Volleyball takes two this weekend, improving to 11-4

By Shelby Flores
s TA F F w R lT E R

All players on the Washington & Lee
volleyball team contributed to the victo-
ries over Virginia Wesleyan College and
Mary Baldwin College last Saturday.

Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles and ‘

sophomore middle hitter Katie Toomb
led the Generals against Virginia Wes-
leyan in the second straight match W&L
hit over .324. Boles led the team with 14
kills and Toomb added 10 of her own.
With the victory over Virginia Wes-
leyan, head coach Bryan Snyder picked
up his 350th career win at W&L. Snyder
is in his 13th season at W&L and has a

.789 career winning percentage.

Snyder asserted that the wins are
not his, but for the entire program. He
praised all of the past and present teams
and assistant coaches who have helped
him reach this outstanding achievement.

“I feel very fortunate to be in the po-
sition I am as the head volleyball coach
at W&L,” Snyder said. ‘‘I look forward
to many more years of being a General.”

The Generals continued their winning
streak on Saturday afternoon against
Mary Baldwin.

First-year Mansie

outside hitter

Hough led the team with 12 kills and
eight digs. Both Hough’s kill and dig
statistics are career-highs. First-year
outside hitter Christina Kamis added a
career-high 10 kills. Sophomore middle
hitter Rachel Guarisco chipped in four
blocks in the Generals’ sweep of Mary
Baldwin.

The Generals will travel to Randolph-
Macon College on Wednesday, Sept. 26
to play against the defending Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference champions
at 7:00 p.m.

Generals lose a tight battle

FH falls to Randolph—Macon, 1-0

By Shelby Flores
s TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington & Lee ﬁeld hockey
team fell to Randolph—Macon College
1-0 in an away game last Friday.

With the loss, the Generals drop to a
2-5 overall record and a 0-1 conference
record.

Randolph-Macon junior defender Ol-
ivia Newman scored the only goal of the
contest in the ﬁrst half on a penalty cor-
ner. Newman was assisted by sophomore
defender Carrie Jacobs.

Randolph-Macon outshot W&L 25-6
and had 19 penalty corners compared to
only three for the Generals. Junior mid-

ﬁelder lziar Moure led the charge against
the Yellow Jackets with two shots on
goal.

First-year goalkeeper Megan Axelrod
played 55:50 and stopped 11 of 12 shots.
Senior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne played
the ﬁnal 14: 10 of the game, making four
saves. '

The Generals return to Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play on Sept.
25 at Roanoke College at 4:00 p.m. The
team will travel to Chambersburg, Pa. on
Saturday, Sept. 29 for a non-conference
game against Wilson College.

 

 

 

8 0 THVE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012

S p0I't5

 

in the numbers
6

The total number of ﬁeld goals that Kansas City Chief Ryan
Succop kicked in his game versus the New Orleans Saints
on Sunday. One of them forced overtime, while another one
was the game winner. The Chiefs won 27-24 and are now

1-2 on the season while the Saints fall to 0-3.

86»

The total number of points scored in the Clemson-Florida
State game on Saturday. FSU scored 35 points in the sec-
ond half to put them on top 49-37. They went on a 35-3 run
in the second half to make a comback after being down in

the first half.

45

The number of years since someone has won the baseball
triple crown. Carl Yastrzemski did it for the Boston Red Sox
in 1967. Currently Miguel Cabrera of the Detroit Tigers is
leading the American League in all three categories: batting
average, home runs, and runs batted in. The Tigers have 11

games remaining in their schedule.

soapbox

"You cannot simply switch to a group of
cheaper ofﬁcials and fulfill your legal,
moral, and duty obligations to us and our
fans. You need to end the lookout and bring
back the ofﬁcials immediately.‘

-TheNFLPlqyersAseoclatlontiolheleeguewl<lngforthe
loel¢outofofllclalstoend.111eofllclalshavebeenIockad
outlrythe NFLslnceJune. Replacementoﬂlclalshavabeen
usedl’or1hellrstfawwael<softheseason.FromESPN.com

“Well, if! wanted to keep playing, yes. lt’s a
business. People forget that.”

-DerekJeterafl:erbelngasled,'PaytonMannIngchan¢ed
1namsal'liar1Aseasor:swluiorieteam.0ouldyousee
yourselfdolng1hat?'JehersaysthatltlslheobvlouschoIce,
allhoughhehassald manyﬂmesthathewanlstostaya
Yhnloeforhls entire career. From E3PN.com

Thomas leads the
Generals to 3rd place

W&L XC competes against fellow ODAC teams at the Doc Jopson Invite

By’Bai|ey Russell
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s cross country
team placed third out of four teams Friday night
in Penn Laird, Va. at the Doc Jopson lnvite. All
four teams were members of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

Prior to the race, head coach John Tucker
said, “The top teams in ODAC will be at the race
tonight. lt’s going to be tough to win, but the
guys are excited about running in the best race
of the season.”

Tucker says that this year the Generals have
“outstanding returning runners and outstanding

 

 

Courtesy of generalssports.com

 

Men’s xc before the W&L lnvittinal

new comers.” The team has been training for
5 weeks, and Tucker believes that the men are
faster and stronger than they were a month ago.
This was the ﬁrst time this season that the whole
team ran the same race.

Junior Kane Thomas led the Generals in the
6K race with a fourth-place ﬁnish. He crossed
the ﬁnish line in 20:04.80. Sophomore James
Busch was the next General to ﬁnish, taking 14th
in 21:15.00. Eight seconds behind Busch was
senior Tyler Gehrs in 21:23.00, taking 16th. In
20th with a time of2l:42.30 was ﬁrst-year Jake

Mack. Rounding out the score for the Generals
was sophomore Scott Sugden ﬁnishing 22nd in
21:43:00.

Dan Nafzinger of EMU ﬁnished with the
top time of 19:30.00. Lawrence Minor, senior at
Lynchburg, took second in 19:49.00, and Lynch-
burg sophomore Anthony McBride ﬁnished third
in 20:04.10.

The Generals will compete at the Don Cath-
cart Invitational in Salisbury, Md. next Saturday,
Sept. 29.

Inside W&L’s newest sport

Women is golf is brought to campus

By Pat McCarron
STA F F w R I T E R

Last Sunday, the Washington and Lee
women’s golf team ﬁnished third in the H01-
lins Invitational at Ashley Plantation. This
was the debut of Washington and Lee’s newest
varsity sport, the culmination of efforts by the
University and its Athletic Department.

In general, the installment of new varsity
sports to W&L’s athletic system follows a ten-
tative pattern: if an existing club sport shows
exceptional sustainability of dedication, the
Athletic Director is able to suggest its status
be raised to a varsity sport. This is precisely
what Jan Hathom, W&L’s AD, did two years

  ago after a perfect storm of events transformed

ondeck

 

Te n n is Women at ITA Champs

Tuesday Wednesday

the idea of a varsity women’s golf team into a
reality.

Within a six month period, two key events
occurred: President Ruscio authorized a com-
mittee for gender equality in W&L athletics,
an event that synergized with the establish-
ment of women’s club golf. Any worries of
the ﬁnancial burden a new varsity sport would
have on the school were put to ease when
W&L alumnus, Matt Goodwin, granted the
University a generous athletic donation. It
is this contribution that truly gave the W&L
women’s golf program the initial momentum
it needed.

The donation is set up in such a way that
gives more money initially before decreasing
in subsequent years. This initial capital al-
lowed W&L to hire coach Pete Gyscek, who
has taken over as head coach of both the men
and women’s golf teams since his arrival in
the summer of 2011. A developmental team
was soon assembled, comprised of enthusias-
tic members of the former club team.

The signs of the team’s recent recruit-
ment are evident: almost every member is a
ﬁrst-year. The exception is sophomore Elise
Petracca, the only remaining golfer from last
year’s developmental team.

For ﬁrst-year Nicole Kasica, it was the very
installment of the varsity women’s golf team
that solidiﬁed her decision to attend W&L.

“Even though the main reason that I chose
W&L was for academics and the culture on
campus, the golf team really provided me that
ﬁnal push that led me to choose W&L for my
college education,” explained Kasica.

While the establishment of W&L’s wom-
en’s golf team could not have happened
without Goodwin’s donation, it was the en-
thusiasm, dedication, and the love of golf of
everybody involved that made it truly pos-
sible.

Thursday

by means of dedication and donation

Since the ﬁrst day ofthe Hollins Invitation-A
al last week, a void has been ﬁlled in W&L
athletics. Women’s golf will be in action for
the second time in their short history on Sun-

Courtesy of generalssports.com

day when they travel to the Radford Highland-
er invitational.

Saturday

Men at ITA Champs Men at lTA Champ

M e n ‘ s G 0 If at William and Mary

at William and Mary

Field Hockey

at Roanoke 4 pm

at Wilson 2 pm

Women’s Soccer

vs Bridgewater 4 pm

Men’s Soccer‘

vs. Ferrum 4:30

vs Bridgewater
1:30 pm

Volleyball

at R-M 7 pm

Worthington Classic Worthington Classic

Football

vs Roanoke 4:30 pm

at Guilford 7 pm

 

.9

O‘

