372.755‘
11557.-

v. HE»
“D 1'1

    
  

          WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSHY     

RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXV||,NUMBER21

      

A On Friday afternoon, Washington and Lee stu-

V_.,«  dents were alerted to. the fact that a ﬁre had con-

"i ~* sumed the majority of the Preston Street home of
four W&L seniors. ’ -
First responders were called to 106 Preston

Street on Friday due to a ﬁre that initiated on the

porch of the house. ‘According to, Sidney Evans,

the VicevPresident for Student Affairs and Dean
of Students, the ﬁre “severely damaged [the] off-
campus residence”. Public safety director, Mike

Young, called the ﬁre “a total loss”. ‘

Although none of the W&L students were in-
_ jured, few of their belongings were salvaged
from the remains of the ﬁre.

Young said the W&L students “are being as-
sisted by Student Affairs staff members, Dean
Futrell and others”. According to Dean Evans,
the Dean of Students office was “working with
them to secure housing and to help obtain basic
supplies”.

“The affected students are all seniors, and I
know that everyone in the W&L community will
join us in supporting them as they ﬁnish the ﬁnal
weeks of the academic year,” Evans said.

For those that wish to contribute any form of
support to these students, please contact Dean
Evans at sevans@wlu.edu.

  
       

-".)_’§‘
Q

   

'nsiciei;o

  
  

 
  

     

    
 
      
 
        
  

Alumni rel

their giory days
See what Washington and
Lee alumns have to sa
about W&L “back in t

97

day . A

 
   
      
     
     
     
       
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 

 

must have!

Who wouldn’t want to
have an ap that helps you .
pick u gir s and keeps you
up to ate on Kanye West?

   
  
 

  

  
 

 
  

  

  
    
 
 

Friend us on
Facebook!

/<

  
 
 
   
  
    
  
 

  

@ringtumphi

  

 Holocaust
j survivor
  tells story

By Graham Colton

STAFF WRITER _ _v
Washington and Lee University

students have their share of troubles,
but after listening to Marcel Drimer’s
childhood stories, one would ﬁnd that
these trying times are nothing that
can’t be handled.

   

_.._(--  f

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

. at;l\lh"e9“‘ 0. 

7&1‘ ’

        

 

  
 
 

News---# “We thought about giving up  but

I opinionS_'_# we didn’t,’’ said Drimer, while talking

(_ & _ # about his experience surviving the Ho-
Alts I-"em locaust. -

- Drimer’s talk was just one event of
many during W&L’s Holocaust Re-
membrance Week. Just three weeks
ago, Drimer, along with other survi-
vors, met with President Obama for
Holocaust Remembrance Day.

Sporls...#

 
 
     

Wednesday

    
  
  

7 Thunder showers Born in 1934, Drimer was only ﬁve
. 0 0 years—old when Germany invaded P0-
52 .69 land and his hometown of Drohobycz

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

fell to Soviet control in 1939. The
town was small, with a population of
about 10,000, he said.

“You had some well-educated Jews
who were doctors and lawyers, but
then you had others who scraped by to
make a living,” Drimer said.

 ..  Thzrtrsday
 M  Partly Cloudy

54°-76°

     

. _ Ff'iaICl“V It wasn’t until July 1, 1941, that
\  -_ paruy cloudy the Germans inﬁltrated the town and
. '  0 0 began putting restrictions on Jews.
59 -79 Drimer said he and his family were
m——-—-—------———  —— only allowed to walk in certain places,
[turd I 7 and were required to wear arm bands

Sa C") identifying them as Jews.
Scattered Drimer described the terror that
580_ 770 came with German aktions, or violent
A operations against Jewish civilians.
I, — During one speciﬁc German aktion,
/ L , S14/76 0}’ , ' his family hid, in a wheat ﬁeld under

' Fewshowers .f —  his mother’s beidge choat..

. J J 0 0 , your . I‘... at “We starte earing Germans
44 4  '74 screaming, dogs barking, people cry-

ing, begging for their life, and then
shots ﬁred, and then it was quiet for 10
or 15 minutes,” he said,

congratulate the women’s lacrosse players whom you know! See page 6 for more information on the
team's victory this weekend.

   

Monday

   
   

Continued on page 2

<n

  

J,T}_z,e  ‘is recyclable.‘

 

 

 

l.“JI32iZ«lii:‘f:7§‘i'}I‘5 ii

 

,,,.,. ,m.~g._~,-,4»-‘Q -r
I.—‘:- :>,'~ ,; r-.u|
..-s.r... -..u.i.._...

 '%».:,1t:g 3-was

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013

PowerDown cuts ener

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee has begun its
ﬁrst Spring PowerDown Challenge to
reduce energy consumption.

Students living on-campus are en-
couraged to unplug and turn off appli-
ances and electronicsnot in use. The
dorm, Greek house or theme house that
reduces consumption by the largest per-

centage between May 3 and May 10 will
win a Power Sundae Party at the Lee
House on» Monday, May 13. Mr. and
Mrs. Ruscio will also be participating.
“We are hoping that [the competition]
will give people a reason to. . .take a look
around their room or... their dorm and...
look at those things that are on that don’t

 

W&L’s energy specialists.

In 2009, Washington and Lee attend-
ed an energy conservation conference to
learn that the University was dead last
in a list of 30 schools for energy use per
square foot, said Stewart. The schools
were all part of the Jessie Ball DuPont
Fund that gives money to schools for
energy projects. After the conference,
Washington and Lee decided to step up
its game to reduce consumption. Stewart
said that energy use per square foot has
dropped since then and that W&L is no
longer at the bottom ofthe list.

In fact, Morris Trimmer, W&L’s oth-
er energy specialist, says that the new
energy program reduced consumption
by $600,000 to $800,000 in the past year.

The PowerDown Competition is the
ﬁrst major push to reduce consumption,
said Trimmer.

Stewart said the changes students are
asked to make are small and easy.

“We’re not really even really asking
anybody to sacriﬁce anything,” she said.
“We’re talking about...not using some-
thing ifyou don’t need it.”

She said that one of the energy-wast-
ing practices that sticks out to her is fra-
ternities leaving on lights outside their
houses when they are not in Lise.

Stewart said that the competition is
a most improved model because it mea-
sures a percentage drop. This method
was chosen because buildings have dif-

need to be,” said Jane Stewart, one of‘

ferences in energy use beyond student
control. For instance, all heating and air
conditioning pumps are located in the Pi
Beta Phi house, so it has the highest en-
ergy use of all sororities.

Stewart said she had an idea of who
would win the competition based on past
responsiveness, but she would not men-

 

From March 26-28, the Student
Body voted on the Constitutional Re-
view Committee’s (CRC) proposed
amendments to the Washington and
Lee Student Body Constitution. Here
are the results as printed in Campus
Notices on April 1:

Of 1330 ballots cast, 749 voted in
favor of the amendment for The Con-
stitutional Review Committee to meet
every 3 years (56%), 198 voted in

stitutional Review Committee to meet
every 6 years (15%). Neither amend-
ment passed. '

  
  

Venture club seeks  
new members

By Krysta Huber
STA F F w R IT E R

Now wrapping up its second year on
campus, the Venture Club is seeking new
members for next fall.

Club members will be hosting an in-
formation session evening at 7 p.m. on
Monday, May 6 in Commons 345. Inter-
ested students of all years and majors are
encouraged to attend.

The Venture Club is Washington and
Lee’s entrepreneurship organization,
which works primarily with alumni busi-
nesses. Venture Club members focus on
the many aspects of startuppconsulting,
helping new businesses to set up suc-
cessful business plans. , ~

Venture Club President Mark Sowin-
ski ‘I4 said that the overall purpose of
the club is to foster a genuine interest in
entrepreneurship.

“The mission of the Venture Club is
to develop the spirit of entrepreneurship
within the [W&L] community,” said So-

an investing branch, the Venture Invest- I

ing Group. Vice President of ‘Investing

Henry Luther ‘ 14 will lead the group be- .

ginning in September.

Luther said that this summer, the in-
vesting group will be creating a system
and assigning criteria to the Venture
Club’s investments in entrepreneurial
companies.

“I will be looking speciﬁcally for stu-
dents that have the needed skills to make
this group successful,” he said.

Vice President of Marketing Casey I

Mackintosh ’15, who is responsible for

publicizing the Venture Club on campus, ' ii’ ‘I in

said that the new investing group was '

one of the reasons why-she wanted to be
the Vice President of Marketing.

“I wanted this position because I be-
lieve that this club has a lot of growth po-
tential, especially with the launching of
the Venture Investment Group,” she said.

“‘T he strength of a Venture Club experience is the diver-

sity in experience and the ability to obtain a true and

deep understanding of how start-up businesses work. ”

Mark Sowinski ‘14lVenture Club President

winski.

Sowinski said that the club works
toward its mission in three major ways.
One of the club’s efforts is through con-
sulting. Venture Club members work
with several startup companies each se-
mester.

The Venture Club has recently con-
sulted with two alumni companies, Ice-
box Coffee and HeroMe. Sowinski said
that Icebox Coffee, which was started
by Bebe Goodrich ’07, is a coffee con-
centrate that can be mixed with water or
milk to make instant iced coffee.

HeroMe, which was developed by
Josh Bryan ’07, is working on a line of
action ﬁgures that-is customized to the
preferences of each purchaser.

Venture Club Director of Consulting -

Alex Hensleigh ’ l 4 said she believes that
Icebox Coffee bodes a promising future.

“Icebox Coffee is an awesome com-
pany because they have a great product
and great growth potential,” Hensleigh
said.

Sowinski said that the club is cur-
rently consulting with Icebox Coffee
and will be-meeting with Goodrich in the
next few weeks to discuss sales strate-
gies for her company.

The Venture Club also hosts events
on campus throughout the year, which
are open to all W&L students. Sowinski
said that events like the Entrepreneurship
Summit and the annual Startup Pitch
Competition give students the opportu-
nity to network with alumni.

The Venture Club’s third effort in
achieving its mission is the newest ofthe
three. The club is currently developing

“With this new branch, the club will now
encompass marketing, venture capital,
investment and consulting projects.”

During weekly lunch meetings, Ven-
ture Club members interact with lead-
ing entrepreneurs and venture capitalists
via Skype. The ofﬁcers all agreed that
the advice they’ve been given by those
entrepreneurs has been one of the most
valuable experiences of the club.

“Venture Club is a great opportunity
to work with real businesses and gain ap-
plicable skills,” Hensleigh said.

Mackintosh said that the tangible
skills she has also learned as a Venture
Club member, such as creating business
models and writing research briefs, are
extremely important and will certainly
beuseful after college.

Sowinski said that a key distinction of
the Venture Club is how different each
member’s experience can be, given their
role in the club, the types of companies
they work with and the variety of stu-
dents they collaborate with.

“The strength of a Venture Club ex-
perience is the diversity in experience
and the ability to obtain a true and deep
understanding of how startup businesses
work,” he said. .

Sowinski added that the skills stu-
dents acquire by participating in the Ven-
ture Club are beneﬁcial to many careers.

“Graduated members of the Venture
Club have gone into careers as varied as
investment banking, marketing, venture
capital or Teach for America, as the skills
developed in the club are widely appli-
cable across many ﬁelds.”

it

through adversity.

Drimer’s first-had, eyewinessiacou

  

nt of th Holicaust wa

Continued from
Holocaust survlvor

By Graham Colton
STAFF WRITER

“And then it would start all over
again.”

“It was like a symphony of death,”
said Drimer. ‘

Shortly after, as day turned to dusk,
Drimer said he and his mother and sister
encountered a German soldier, and they
all made eye contact and stopped.

“It was only for a minute, but it felt
like an eternity,” Drimer said.

The soldier, for what reason Drimer
does not know, turned around and walked
away.

Drimer also talked about a “tale of
two coats,” when he, his mother and his
sister were hiding in an attic for an ex-
tended period oftime. His father would
bring them food when possible, but they
went without food for several days when
his father didn’t come back.

“My father eventually bribed his way

out of prison with a fur coat,” Drimer
said, as Jews were not» allowed to have
such things at the time.

When his father returned, he brought
a peasant woman whohad some provi-
sions. Drimer said his mother was will-
ing to barter with her, and the woman
said she wanted Drimer’s sister’s winter
coat in return for some bread.

“And my mother said, ‘But that is my
child’s winter coat,’ and the woman said
‘It doesn’t matter, you will all be dead by
winter,”’ Drimer said.

Once liberated in August 1944,
Drimer said he had a hard time acclimat-
ing to life post-war. He said his muscles
were weak, so he had to relearn how to
walk. I

However, Drimer is thankful to have
survived. Only 400 people from his town
were able to get through the Holocaust.

Results of the       
Student Body Vote t  
on Constitution    

favor of the amendment for The Con-.

gy use

tion the name of the dorm or house.

As for the future, Trimmer said he
thought the competition could change
long-term behavior.

“Hopefully it will have an impact be-
yond the challenge period,” he said.

    
     
      

Of the 1251 ballots cast, 883 vot-
ed in favor of passing all remaining”
amendments (71%). The remaining’
amendments passed. _

The updated Constitution is posted P
on the EC website. CRC Chairman’
Annelise Madison would like to thank:
the students who voted on the amend-S
ments and encouraged others to: vote;
Also, thanks to CRC members Pa-.
qui Toscano, Clark Hildabrand, Rob
Ridgeway, Alex Berger, John Lang-*
ley, Cam Higgins, Emily,Zankma_:n*
and James Gordon for allof their hard,
work this yean — i I ‘ "' ‘ ‘

    
     
            
     
        
      
     
      
       
       
   
   
 

 
 

 
 

   

PATRICK HINELY '73 / photographer

 
   

the ltimate testimony to perseverlng

He now lives in Burke, Va. with his wife,
while his son and two grandchildren live
elsewhere.

“Out of the 6.5 million people killed,
1.5 million were children,” Drimer said.
“Think of what they could have done for
this world.”

Drimer said he’s written about more
than 10 separate stories from his war ex-
periences, "and has been told he “writes
with an accent." He said it is important
for him to write and speak, as there are
still some individuals who insist the Ho-
locaust never happened.

“I was a witness to what was happen-
ing, and by you listening, now you be-

. come witnesses,” he said. “We must see
’to it that nothing like this ever happens

again.”

  

  

  

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

"By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Violence in Syria continues

Violence continues in Syria with massacres in several towns. At least 50 were
announced dead in al-Baida on Friday after pro-Assad troops raided the village.
This tally included women and children. After the attack, Syrian opposition is_—
sued a plea for international action to the Arab League and the United Nations.
Reports suggest that what has been called a “large scale massacre” was a re-
sponse to the earlier attack on a bus carrying pro-Assad ﬁghters.

Russia unveils new landmark

On Thursday, Russia_unveiled its newest cultural landmark in St. Petersburg.
The Mariinsky Il Theater, a modern ballet and opera house, celebrated its open-
ing with a large gala event. Director Mikhail Piotrovsky and others criticized the
building for its unappealing exterior architecture. However, ofﬁcials are excited
for the future prospects surrounding the theater.

Musharraf banned from
elections

On Tuesday, the Pakistani courts banned Pervez Musharraf from the upcoming
elections. Musharraf, a former military leader, returned to Pakistan in March to
support his political party and run in these historic elections. In response to his
banning, his party is boycotting the elections. They claim that a free and fair
election is no longer possible.

Arab League revises plan

In meetings early last week, the Arab League revised their peace plan for Israel
__and Palestine. The new initiative accepted the possibility of land swapping in the
future. Although many leaders praised the revision, Palestinian Hamas ofﬁcial
Ismail Haniyeh said that land swapping was not an action that outsiders could
decide on for the nation: “Palestine is not a property, it is not for sale, not for a

swap and cannot be traded.”
Garment factory collapses

A garment factory collapsed in Bangladesh on April 24. Authorities are still re-
covering bodies from the rubble; the total reached over 500 on Friday. Dozens of
victims were buried by the ruins and many families are worried that their victims
will never be traced. Nine people were taken into custody after the collapse for
charges such as negligence. This disaster shed light on many of the companies
that outsource to Bangladesh because of cheap labor.

Interest rates cut in Europe

The European Central Bank cut interest rates on Thursday by .25%. This cut,
which is the first in ten months, brought rates to a record low .5%. The cut did
not come as a surprise in the midst of rising unemployment in Europe and a drop
in eurozone inﬂation below the target level. Unemployment levels hit a record
high in March and, since then, oﬁicials at the ECB have been closely monitoring
economic situations and waiting to act. The ECB’s hope is that the economic
situation will turn for the better later inthe year.

Malaysia elections spark
controversy

Drama surrounds the elections in Malaysia on Sunday because of recent ru-
mors that the ruling party has been unfairly “buying votes.” The former swing
state of Sabah has been a stronghold for the current party in control for the past
two years. Suspicious arose in the time leading up to this election that previous
administrations gave illegal immigrants citizenship in exchange for votes. Au-
thorities are investigating the allegations.

Relivin glory days

Alums say W&L has evolve , but it is still the mine Cainpzi/s

By Athena Cao
STA F F w R I T E R

Washington and Lee is evolvino, but
nothing has changed, alumni say.

More than 600 alumni came home for
their reunions last weekend. Many are
amazed at the renovations on campus. but
they say the W&L spirit never changes.

“Obviously there have been new build-
ings built everywhere you pop-up, but
the more it changes, the tnore it stays the

same,” says Thomas O’Brien ’88, ‘9lL. -

“The essence of W&L is still the same.
[and] the spirit of W&L is still the same."
Living in Louisville, Ky., O‘Brien
drives down to Lexington about once
a year to recruit for his law firm, Frost
Brown Todd LLC. He said some of his
classmates were shocked at the changes
on campus because they “literally" had
not come back since graduation, but to
him, the school is evolving gradually.

Scott Fowler ’83 also said that some as-
pects of W&L remain the same. Fowler”s
grandfather, father and sister are all W&L
alumni and last weekend, he brought his
son Cameron, a future W&L General, to
campus as well. Scott attended activities
like the alumni party at the Liberty Hall
Ruins and the Five-Star General event
with his father.

He said it felt like home.

“It’s always great to come back to Lex-
ington—it’s sort of like coming home.“
Fowler said. “The foundation and basics
of what the University is about, what
George Washington and [Robert] Lee
gave it as character has always remained

insistent."
Rick 'Wootlwttt‘ti ‘73 and his wife be-
lieve it was the tncntztlity of the honor

system and st'te:tki*tg tradition that glltlltls
the \\7t&‘;l spirit. il‘l'lCl‘C are few’ other plac-
es like W&L. \‘v'oodwartl said.

"\’y'hen V-.e"\e been walking Z1l'()Ulltl. l
reali/.c<l I li()'('gtli to talk to people» they
speak‘ to me.“ ‘.‘t7t.>t‘>ti\\.:tt'<l said. "I lit ed
in New York for a while. If you try to
speak to people in 1\§e\\ ‘t"ork, the) call
the cops and say. ‘Vt hat are you. stalking
me or sotttetliing‘.""

Woodward said l.e.\ington was a little
“‘rtttt—dowt‘t“ iii the 1970s with ver_\ few
nice restautattts.

"Tliere are actually nice restaLtt'ants
dcl'initel_\ not the case when l was here."
Rick said. "We used to go to this place
called the Central Lounge. also known
as the ‘Liquid Lotttigef which was run
b) a fornter police officer »‘()ft'iect‘
l)uck" and his wife worked there ‘too.
‘Mrs. Dttck" And I ncxer knew their teal
names.”

To alumni '-\ ho had grat.luated before

the Utti=.er~:it} went co-ed. like tltarlie .

(‘Itambcrs ‘(ml the Lnit.er~;it§ ntigltt not
he tltat llllll.‘ll the saint).

(‘han'tbcrs said i.llC} hati to w cat’ Ll ettztt
and tie to class. atttl lllt.’_\' were only al-
lowed to h;.\ c three absetttres in a semesx-«
let: lat1e_\ l)t  tiseti to he the "w eelxettd

-rm and winter term Lind

 
   

hetweett iitll
there was no h1\‘ak in h-_-lweett. he siiitl.

l\’l;t<:l«.e_\ "l'ilti’t;ttt “()3 ‘éllltl that he and his

wife are closely connected with his Phi
Delta Theta fraternity brothers.

llis w ifc. Nancy Tilman; said W&L has
become more global.

“l)ocsn‘t it also seem it’s more glob-
al‘.‘.“ :\laney said. “We went to the as-
scnibly last night and that is what struck
us too——--it  more global; the world is
getting smaller in everyway.”

/\t the Student and Alumni LinkUP Re-
ccption on Saturday morning, Douglas
Pan/er ‘98 emphasized the importance of
networking with alumni. Hosted by the
t'at‘t:er Development Center, the event in-
‘sites the newly inducted Phi Eta Sigma
tneznbers to meet with alumni.

Rttnning his own law practice, Panzer
said he has learned from other alumni’s

' wins and scars.

"I am actually in touch with a number
of older alumni from the ‘70s who are in-
credibly helpful,” Panzer said. “They can
tell me things that I can’t possibly have
learned at this stage of tny life.”

Alumni connection bonds together gen-
eralions of W&L Generals. Panzer said
this Op[)0l‘ltlllll_\' is like no other.

“You are in one of the tnost important
fottt‘—yeat‘ periods in your life, develop-
me-ntallV\.— educationally,” Panzer said.‘
"You w ill never have the opportunity to
mt"-et people with such a shared back-
grottttd and shared love of something.”

  

P Elsa Sigma inductsi

ne members

_, - "By Graham Colton

»

    

c o P Y E D l T0 R V

On May 3, the students in the top 20 percent of the ﬁrst-year class were inducted
into Phi Eta Sigma National Honor Society.

Jason Rodocker, the Assistant Dean for the First-Year Experience, and adviser to
the W&L chapter of Phi Eta Sigma: “The quality and caliber of our student proﬁle
continues to improve and the academic accomplishments of the ﬁrst-year class are
very impressive. Many of these students will obtain further academic accolades
and even graduate fellowships as they progress through their undergraduate years
at [W&L].”

Moving off, cuttng costs

Housing in Lexington is cheaper than it is in many other college towns

By Rachel Adams-Heard
5 TA F F W R I T E R

t

ington and Lee is the way in which off-
campus housing is chosen.

For some, housing is done through fra-
ternities and sororities. An older Greek
member will often pass a house down to a
younger brother or sister.

For those not afﬁliated with Greek life,
the search for an off-campus house may
prove more difficult.

Whether the closetie between housing
and Greek life is positive or negative. one

thing is certain: thcrel-a1ivel.\' low cost of

Le\ington ll.t,‘U.\‘lllg to other college towns
is a nice break in the otherw isc liiglt price
of attending Wasltitt<__itort and Lee.

()l‘f-eatnptts ltolirélltg can be scpamted
into ‘tw o t,‘1lll.‘\:',tIl‘lt_‘SI town and eouiltry
Many properties are rented for two }’eZ1l'.\.
it stttdents _l'tllli0l‘ and senior year, w hile
others are _\early leases.

Another t]'Lltllll_\' of W&L housing is that
yirtuall_\ L‘\"Cl'_\ house has a name. ltrom
‘the rather self-e.\plantttot‘y names such as

Poles l. 2. 3. 4. 5 and 6 and the Cabins, to
the more creative titles like County Seat
and l’lllllpl()Wll, W&L housing is personi-
iied in a way that further distinguishes it
front any other school.

Paul Wilson. a former W&L and VMI
prol‘essot*. has been renting houses to
W&L students for almost 20 years, start-
ittg with the Igloo in l994. He rented out
the ri\ er houses, which burned down, and
l)t-wttstrcant. Rent for these houses rang-
cs from $350 per person a month to $525.
This priee, ‘Wilson says. makes “parents
lauglt with surprise and relief.”

Wilson explains that part of the joy in
being a landlord in Lexington is that he
enjoys college students. Although he
could charge tnore for his houses, Wilson
sit} s it is a lower priority than having ten-
ants who make life easy and pleasant.

But there's tnore to the cheap rent story.

Part of the reason is that Lexington is
home of one of the smallest universities
in the country. It makes it harder for land-
lords to increase their rates when future
tenants are in close relation with current
tenants and have knowledge of the price
they pay.

/\nother factor in the low cost of hous-
ng is gcograplty. It is well known that
l..e.\ington is not the shopping mall-
equipped Richmond. or even the home of
a (\lllCl\—lll-/\ like Roanoke. The quaint-
ncss of primttrily locally owned, family
operated shops and businesses is part of
the appeal of the small town life in Lex-
ington. but it also draws fewer families
and people searching for jobs. This low-
ers the demand for housing, which in turn
decreases the overall price of property in
Lexington.

 

  

 

 

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MAY 6,2013

  opinions

 

Germany: the good, thebad, andthe plain old weird

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

For the past three weeks I have been
on the Washington and Lee University
Spring Term abroad trip to Germany. It’s
a six week long program with a 4-week
class based in Bayreuth sandwiched
between trips to Salzburg, Berlin and
Munich. I have been to Germany once
before, but this longer trip has made
many interesting facts about this Euro-
pean powerhouse much more evident. If
you plan to visit the Bierland any time
soon, here are some of the best, worst
and weirdest things I’ve seen thus far.

 

TWE DEER,

America, you will never
win the award for best
0 beer if any German beer
(maybe even the one euro variety from
McDonald’s) enters the competition.
Since the Middle Ages Germany has had
strict laws about what goes into a beer.
The legal beer drinking age is 16 and
beer drinking could probably be con-
sidered a national pastime. No football
(okay, soccer) game is complete without
it.

it ,
N H]

W.»
J

WOWEK
ONTD
O 0 It

seems that the citizens of Germany en-
joy the most complicated of power out-
lets. Big and bulky, they sit far off the
wall (normally somewhere near the light
switch). Apple computer chargers paired
with adapters make the worst combina-
tion, constantly falling out. Germans
also must enjoy hiding power outlets
because they are most commonly found
under beds or wardrobes.

        

mg‘-

A§§gf

literally a bread type for every meal,
piece of cheese and meat. lt’s impres-
sive in a way that makes every tourist
feel overwhelmed and a little stupid. The
taste and freshness always makes up for
one’s embarrassing ignorance- trust me.

“adj
lfllwlﬁ, .

0 know what you’re
thinking- the ‘90s were forever long
ago- which while a true statement, it
seems the German club scene is stuck
in 1996. The sets normally follow the
structure of 90 percent nineties music,
one German song, and a slightly over-
played Macklemore song. It’s almost
endearing considering that Germans not
only do not, but cannot dance. A talent
left to the proud and the free, I would
suggest toning down the dancing while
in a German club, or everyone will know
you’re American.

  

  

-Cf}
k.__2 '

.,glII(
.’-A--"

  

 

BED
  o JWEETJ.

There aren’t any here.
Instead, the Germans use a large duvet
cover and nothing else. While comfort-
able, it’s a little awkward getting used to
letting your feet hang out. Also, the pil-
lows are all square (???). ‘

Of course, there are a plethora of
other things about Germany that make it
a completely entertaining place to visit.
More importantly, the culture and poli-
tics make for an interesting environment
as well.

LEDEKD
WOJEN.

The German
pants/suspenders combination is most
deﬁnitely a fashion and a history state-
ment. Rather unattractive, they do make
the beer festival more entertaining.

DKEHD,mm

can bread makes no sense 0

0 now that I have only been
enjoying the German varieties. Here
they call American loaves “toast” be-
cause that’s all they use it for. There is

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

4 apps that will leave

MISSION STATEMENT:

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

IULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

.IUL|A LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

HANNAH HOWARD
ATHENA CAO

RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
ANDREA OWEN

KRYSTA HUBER

LEAH GOSE

YEJEAN KIM

JAMES MCCULLUM

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

it is the mission of THE RING-TUM PHI

to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting
the Washington and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our-goal is to look deeper into news

affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable. Through
our reporting, we aspire to spark discussions that lead to

discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a member of
The Media Board, which can be reached at medlaboard@w|u.

edu, but is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI welcomes
all letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions for

content and length. Letters and advertising do not necessarily

reflect the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
‘ SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

you laughing

  
  
    

Tﬂe @n1°1@n

In case you didn’t know
that Kanye West had recent-
' ‘ ly retired to a small farm in
Ohio, or that a fourteen year
_ old genius has just balanced
the national budget, The On-
ion is the news source that
keeps you up to date. This sa-
tirical newspaper is full of fun
facts about celebrities, politi-
cians, sports stars, and more.
For example, did you know
that Sony has just released
nose buds so that you can re-
lease various smells into your
nose at all points of the day?
" Now on sale for $49.99.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

W Man Unwilling To
I Discuss Lifetime
r Denny's Ban

Have you ever played that game \\ here you stick a post-it
on your forehead and guess what‘s written on it based on the
Clues your friends give you‘? Heads Up! is e.\aetlytl1ut, only in
app-form. Backed by the “I5llen" brand. this game is hilarious.
provided you‘re willing to act out “rid g a horse" and hum
the melody of"Mm Bop” as last as you can.

‘l)ﬁC7e Ural

      
  
 

When I was 21 kid. I used to love reading the
"‘l1Iimies" with my grandma. Now. newspaper coin-
ics can be delivered right to your iPhone.

“I’ve never had a dream I

come true until today when
I met you.” If you’ve ever
been the victim of a truly

SOMETIMES

   
 

    
 
  

   

love this one. To begin, you I 
press a button that reads “Tap 3:3” F“'°""° PI°I"u" or  %HE  RIGHT,
Me,” and a new pick-up line .-. 
will appear on your screen. Barpick up “ms . WQRST Jog Lkv .
My personal favorites? “Ifl   ‘Y?’ ‘A
kdtMD ld’,I’d ~

Xaiirriee a esandvsichnzftei you Best PM up I-ms . W0 R I" 
called the McGorgeous.” “If Corny Pick UP Lines V

t , Id E
you were a aser you wou Dmy Pick up “Ms .

be set to stunning.” And ﬁnal-
ly, “You’re hot. l’m ugly. To-
gether we could be average.”

   
        
     
  
 
 

   

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013' 9 5 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

arts&life  

D

vi“’:'Most students spend their summers away from Lexington, but some just can ’t seem to get enough of oarl
A’ By Yejean Kim ‘ I -

‘__/'AsT'iAi=i= wmrsn

 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 

town I

      
    
  

For most Washington and Lee students, the
next two weeks of spring term will be spent
basking in all of Lexington and their free
time. However, for some students, these next
two weeks are just the beginning of their time
in Lexington. Without the rigor and demands
of the regular school year, these students will
be free to pursue their passions, in a familiar
environment, during the many summer op-
portunities both W&L and Lexington have to
offer.

 
   
 

WHO: Cara Scott, ﬁrst-year

K WHAT: Resident of Lexington‘

THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I’m working in V

the bookstore because I want to stay connected ‘ ‘ ‘,5’  C,

V to campus over the summer. I’m actually pret- ' 

_- ty excited because I know a few other people .  *’ Q G _ ,,

. who will be here, plus all my friends from high , g .  ' ' I
school will‘ be back, so I think this summer will _ , ; I

be better than previous ones. Lexington tends ‘

I to be pretty dead over the summer, but between

work and seeing friends from both college and

high school, I think it could be fun!”

   
 
  

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

  
  
  
     

   

 

! WHO: Andrew Conlon, ﬁrst-year
WHAT: Research with Professor Kue-
hner .
THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I am ‘
very excited to have a research opportu— }
nity as a freshman and I plan to make the
most of staying in campus. I really enjoy _
getting practical experience in any sub-
ject, not just physics and I will deﬁnitely
‘ explore campus, Lexington, and the sur-

   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

WHO: Yishu Liu, ﬁrst-year
" WHAT: Summer RA with the
Alumni College ‘ ,

THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I
think it will be a blast, might be
kind of boring without all the stu-
dents, but it will be a great experi-

. Dad

 

     
  
   
  
  
  
  
 

 
 
    

:3:

ar_ 11:-

rounding area as well.”

ah

..J ALI»

WHO: Jordan Edgren, Sophomore

WHAT: Genetics research on local species

of crayﬁsh with Professor Cabe

THOUGHTS ON STAYING: “I’m really
looking forward to staying! It’s an awesome
opportunity to do some unique undergradu-
ate research. I know a lot of people are
staying here this summer as well and it will
be a great time to bond with new_and old

friends.”

__.f 

  ii ‘hf -5
sh arananda on his

 

   
   

A‘. I ‘_ I

  
 

O

ence.”

   
  
  
  

   

Q

 

’ portunity as a freshman.”

ptalism

  
       
   
 

WHO: Danielle Rosenthal, ﬁrst-
year '

WHAT: Neuroscience research
with Dr. Whiting . V
THOUGHTS, ON STAYING:
“I’m happy to have a research op-

 
      
   
 

:_f-"!I'-‘, J‘

-. .

Renowned activist, writer and monk discusses the emerging role of global capitalism and economic social theory

By James Mccullum
G U EST w R IT E R

Dada Maheshvarananda, born in the
US, is an activist, writer and monk.
Since 1978 he has taught meditation and
yoga and supervised social service proj-
ects, in Southeast Asia, South America
and Europe. His recent book, After Cap-
italism: Prout 3 Vision for a New World,
has been published in I0 languages.

He has given hundreds of seminars
and workshops around the world about
social issues and spiritual values. In
Oct. 2006 he opened the Prout Research
Institute of Venezuela, which he directs.
It is the passion of his life. Here is an
interview from Dada just after he left
Washington and Lee University.

Q: Ifyou had to choose one individual
who inspired you the most throughout
life, who would it be and why?

A: First, I’d like to say that I have been
inspired by many great women and
men, in this country and around the
world, who are totally committed to
changing the world and who walk their
talk. Still, I would say that Sarkar con-
tinues to be the greatest inspiration to
me. I personally and met him regularly
during the last 12 years of his life. Yet
he’s a diﬁicult person to describe.

I think he was a genius, a renaissance
man with revolutionary ideas in many
ﬁelds. Because of his stand against cor-
ruption, the caste system, the exploita-
tion of women and the exploitation by
political parties, he was imprisoned for
seven years in India. Yet he was a very
humble man who had more uncondi-
tional love than anyone I’ve ever met.

The scientific lessons of meditation

 

\.

that he taught empowered me; he made
me feel that I was the most important
person in the world to him; he inspired
me to dedicate my life in service to hu-
manity. I know many other people from
around the world who felt the same
way. Prout is based on unconditional
love for all, that we are one universal
human family, hence we can leave no-
body behind.

Q: Your book, After Capitalism, claims
that global capitalism is “terminally ill”
and doomed to collapse. Why do you
think our country is in distress and what
do you think we could do to avoid an
economic depression?

A: Unlike what the corporate-owned
media tells us, global capitalism will not
last forever. It is terminally ill because
it is based on proﬁt, selﬁshness and v
greed. It works well for some people,
but not for everyone, and nearly half
the world’s population is living, suffer-
ing and dying in poverty. This poverty
is completely unnecessary, because the
planet has enough resources, if we share
them, for everyone to have a high qual-
ity of life.

‘Global capitalism suffers from inher-
ent contradictions that include growing
inequity and concentration of wealth,
addiction to speculation instead of
production, and rising, unsustainable
debt. Committed to growth at all costs,
global capitalism has become a cancer,
out of control and lethal to our planet’s
life support systems. It cannot last. The
way to avoid an economic depression is
by building strong local economies in
every town and city. Local economies
with sustainable agriculture that grows
healthy food, renewable “green” indus-
tries and credit unions that offer loans
to local people are all elements ofa vi-
brant community. *

Q: As risk takers and opportunity seek-
ers, entrepreneurs enrich society, some-
times beneﬁting millions with creative
products, services and employment.

' Would you want to stop all their creativ-

ity and innovation?

A: Not at all. Yet most great innova-
tions are done in teamwork. Because
the physical resources of the planet are
limited, the hoarding wealth or using it
for speculation rather than productive
investment reduces the opportunities of
other people and causes poverty. A fun-

-damental principle of Prout is to limit

theaccumulation of wealth and create a
maximum salary that is tied to the mini-
mum wage.

In the United States, all government
federal employees have a starting an-
nual salary ofUS$l7,803 (General
Schedule grade I). With education,
experience and promotions, the high-
est pay scale for a president or general
or judge is US$l79,700 (Senior Ex-
ecutive Service), just ten times higher.
Similar pay scales exist for all state and
municipal government employees. In
Norway, the gap is only 5.3 times, and
that country has a very high standard
ofliving. We need an adequate “living
wage” for every worker; all earnings in
the private sector should also be capped
at reasonable maximum levels. The dif-
ference between the minimum wage and
the maximum salary helps to motivate
people to be productive and contribute
to society, but they should be fair and
appropriate. Just as everyone thinks that
government salaries are fair, I think that
tying the maximum salary to the mini-
mum in the general economy would
also be fair.

Q: On the back cover of your book,
After Capitalism, it says this is “inspired
by P.R. Sarkar’s Progressive Utilization
Theory or Prout.” Sarkar lived in India,
a country very different from the United
States. What is Prout; is it a relevant
model for this country? _

A: Prout is the acronym for Progressive
Utilization Theory, a new socio-eco-
nomic model based on self-reliance of
each region, cooperatives, environmen-
tal balance and universal spiritual val-
ues. Prout supports local economies and
the empowerment of people to make
economic decisions that directly shape
their lives and communities through
locally-owned, small-scale private en-
terprises, worker-owned cooperatives,
and publicly-managed utilities. It decen-
tralizes decision-making and gives citi-
zens the right to choose how their local
economy should be run.

Noam Chomsky said, “Prout’s co-
operative model, based on sharing the
planet’s resources for the welfare of
everyone, deserves our serious consid-
eration.”

Q: Why do you say cooperatives are the
“businesses of the future”? Can they re-

ally provide decentjobs for everyone?
A: Not everyone is aware that more
than one billion people, a sixth of our
global population, are members of co-
ops. And that cooperatives provide over
100 millionjobs around the world, 20
percent more than multinational en-
terprises! Cooperatives are also more
likely to succeed than privately-owned
enterprises. In the United States, 60-80
percent of private companies fail in
their ﬁrst year, while only 10 percent
of cooperatives fail during that period.
After ﬁve years, only three tovﬁve per-
cent of new U.S. corporations are still in
business, while nearly 90 percent of co-
ops remain viable. Cooperatives beneﬁt
communities by creatingjobs, retaining
wealth and increasing social connec-

tions among the people.

Q: Why have you chosen to live in Ven-
ezuela for the last six years as director
of the Prout Research Institute of Ven-
ezuela? What was your opinion of the
late President Hugo Chavez?
A: I have taught Prout and done social
service work for 35 years in Asia, Eu-
rope and Latin America. Ten years ago,
on June I, 2003, I was invited to meet
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on
his weekly television show to present
the Spanish edition of my ﬁrst Prout
book, which was published in Caracas.

He said, “Dada Maheshvarananda has
given us a book that we appreciate very
much. Your visit has come at such an
opportune moment.... Thank you very
much, brother, and let’s continue with
spirituality, spirit, good faith, moral-
ity and the mystical force that moves
the world. Dada Maheshvarananda and
other citizens of the world are welcome
to visit, especially those who come in
good faith’ and offer their ideas, their
spirit and their moral ﬂame to the Boli-
varian Revolution. This has attracted the
attention ofthe whole world, especially
those who struggle and dream ofa bet-
ter world, just as it says in After Capi-
talism.” His words inspired me.

Many of the goals of Prout are the
same as the goals of the Bolivarian
Revolution, such as to guarantee the ne-

cessities of life to all, to be self-reliant ’

in food, and for workers to manage

their own enterprises. President Chavez —

called for a “socialism for the 21st Cen-
tury,” but he admitted he did not know
exactly what that meant. Sarkar has

called Prout “progressive socialism”,
and I believe this is the most logical and
rational type of economic and social
system that will benefit all Venezuelans.

Q: Where can we see models of Prout
or economic democracy in practice?
Have any countries adopted Prout? Is
this model really practical?

A: The Future Vision Ecological Park

- outside Sao Paulo, Brazil is a model of

integrated rural development based on
Sarkar’s vision. Founded in 1992 by Dr.
Susan Andrews, the center teaches per-
sonal transformation through Biopsy-
chology and community transformation
through Prout to more than 9,000 course
participants each year. In the Philip-
pines, nine major regional Prout move-
ments are active, each with a different
language and ﬂag; together they have
formed a Proutist coalition called Ang
Kasama, which means “united compan-
ions” in Tagalog.

With 5,000 activists and 200 Proutist
leaders, they have adopted the slogan
“Our culture is our strength!” They
promote local languages and cultures,
start cooperatives, promote solidarity
among all Filipinos, and ﬁght against
pseudo-culture and psycho-economic
exploitation. In an extremely poor rural
district of Chhattisgarh, India, Pradeep
Shanna and 15 young Proutists have
started more than 100 village agricul-
tural cooperatives that are earning each
woman the equivalent of about $4 per
day for the produce they grow; chronic
malnutrition is disappearing, while the
purchasing capacity and quality of life
of the people are increasing. There are
many more.

Although examples of Prout coopera-
tives and communities exist on every
continent, the world has not yet seen
how this model can enrich the living
standard and quality of life of all in an
entire state or country. Personally, I be-
lieve that the Prout is the most complete
and practical way to solve the problems
of the world: to end hunger, poverty and
war, to protect and restore the natural
environment, and to bring a high quality
oflife to everyone. Prout is not a rigid
mold to be imposed on any society.
Rather, it comprises a holistic set of
dynamic principles that can be applied
appropriately to help any area prosper in
an ecological way.

 

   
  
  
  
  
  

_ URTESVQF «ERIN SULLIVAN
. _ _, , , .

   

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2013

sports

   

.45

numbers
1

The total number offirst-place votes that Miami Heat player

 

Lebron James took for the NBA MVP voting. It was the
fourth time that he won the award. Oklahoma City Thunder
Kevin Durant was second and New York Knick Carmelo An-

thony was third.

6

Kevin Durant scored six of the final seven field goals for the
Oklahoma City Thunder in their Game 1 win in the second
round of the playoffs over the Memphis Grizzlies. He scored

35 points, had 15 rebounds, and six assists for the game.

44

The total number of wins that boxer Floyd Mayweather has
after he defeated Robert Guerrero by unanimous decision

on Saturday. He remained undefeated.

 139

The total number of runnings of the Kentucky Derby after
Saturday’s running. Orb won at Churchill Downs with jockey

Joel Rosario. The win gives trainer Shug McGaughey his first

ever victory at the Kentucky Derby.

 
 
  

 

“It was a difficult decision, and we talked
about it, but looking at the long—term and
the future of this organization,l felt it was
best to look elsewhere to try and ﬁnd the
right fit.”

-BrooldynNel3GeneralMana¢erBIllyKlngaboutnot
rulalnlng Head coach PJ. carleelmo. carleelmowentss-19
wlttithomlswhenhebecamelntierlmheadcoachaftar

replacing Avery Johnson, mm eepn.com

Athlete he Week

   

..~..._.

1

- i This weekis aihlete of the wee is Aaron
Jeong. Jeong tied the school record in the
100m on Saturday, running a 10.84 in
the prelims. Wes Boyd, clas of 1990, and
Marc Watson, class of 2001, also have run
a 10.84. Jeong just missed the same time

again in the finals, running a 10.85.

ondeck .

    

Lax takes ODAC title

By Leigh Dannhauser
spo RTS

EDITOR
is

Courtesy of Genersalssports.com

The road was not easy, but the Washington
and Lee women’s lacrosse team once again
hoisted the ODAC championship trophy on
Saturday after defeating Shenandoah 1 1-8.

The fourth-seeded Generals took on sec-
ond-seed Shenandoah in an away game re-
match of their loss earlier this season.

This time the Generals came out on top. It
was a tight ﬁrst half with W&L taking a slim
3-2 lead. The game remained close through-
out the entirety of the game, but the Generals
were able to gain some breathing room when
they started a 3-0 run under 19 minutes to go
in the game. Junior attacker Margaret Klein

 

scored two unassisted goals in a row to bring
the score to 7-4, quickly followed by fellow
junior midﬁelder Meade Brewster who added
another unassisted goal of her own.

Shenandoah was able to cut the lead down
to 8-6 with just under ten minutes to go but
W&L went on another 3-0 run to keep the
Hornets at bay. Shenandoah scored the ﬁnal
two goals of the game but it was not enough
to make up the difference.

Kleinfound the back of the net four times
in the afternoon to lead the Generals. First-
year midﬁelder Emily Conway contributed
three. goals of her own. In the net for W&L

The women’s lacrosse team won the ODAC title, having defeated Shenandoah on Saturday. ‘ '

was sophomore Cara Mulligan. She played
the full 60 minutes in goal, making ten saves.

Additionally, ﬁve Generals were named
to the all-tournament team. Mulligan, Brew-
ster, and Conway made the team along with
ﬁrst-year defender Rebecca Dean and junior
attacker Katie Hagen.

With the win W&L earns an automatic bid
to the NCAA tournament for the fourth year
in a row. The opening round is on Wednes-
day with the location and opponent yet to be
determined.

n

SAL
seeded Roanoke College broke open a 2-2
game with a three-goal run in the second
quarter en route to posting a 10-9 victory over
12th-ranked’ and third-seeded Washington and
Lee in the ODAC Men’s Lacrosse Champion-
ship Game on Sunday afternoon at Kerr Sta-
dium.

The Generals (15-4) knotted the game at 2-2

 with 2:55 left in the opening quarter when ju-

'-2

.‘. 1
1*}-‘.'»f' " ""éé‘.-' ilifs‘

nior midﬁelder Joe Wood (Bfonxville, N.Y./
Bronxville) scored unassisted on an extra-
man advantage. However, the Maroons (15-

- 3) seized control of the contest with their

aforementioned run that began just seven sec-

;;" onds into the second period. Senior attack-
:2; man Richard Lachlan scored all three goals in
' a span of 4:06, the last occurring man-up with

10:47 left in the half for a 5-2 lead.
Senior midﬁelder Cooper Brown (Balti-

 more, Md./Gilman) scored a pair of goals
 in the ﬁnal 8:08 of the half, and sophomore
S attackman Cameron Dabir. (Grosse Pointe
' Farms, Mich./Culver Academy) scored a goal

between a pair of Maroon tallies as Roanoke

 carried a 7-5 advantage into the half.

-T he Maroons pushed back out to a four.-goal

J. lead (9-5) early in the third quarter on scores
g: by ﬁrst-year attackman Tyler McWilliams and
 senior midﬁelder Mike Hayden, but the Gen-

erals climbed back to within three goals when
Dabir scored unassisted at the 3:33 mark of

 the third quarter.

W&L sliced the RC lead to 9-7 when sopho-

 more attackman Tyler Goldman (New York,

N.Y./Loomis Chaffee) scored off an assist
from Brown just 38 seconds into the ﬁnal pe-
riod. The Maroons made it 10-7 on a goal by

 ﬁrst-year attackman Will Pilat at 12:58, but

the Generals made a run at tying the game in
the ﬁnal minutes. Wood scored with 6:40 re-
maining and W&L made it a_ one-goal game

  

Tuesday Wednesday

Laemrosse Falls to ‘

-r

  

"'1 V  ‘in if 

(10-9) with 3:14 left when Dabir scored 0
a feed from Brown.

W&L received a man-up opportunity in the
ﬁnal two minutes, but Roanoke junior goal-
keeper Charles Pease posted a save with just
over a minute remaining andthe Maroons
possessed the ball for the rest of the game to
walk away with the title. _ ‘ " 1

Dabir led the Generals with four goals-' and
one assist, scoring his 100th careerlpoint in
the process. He now has- 103 career points.
Brown totaled two goals and twolassists, and
Wood ﬁnished with a pair of goals. Sopho-
more Warren ‘Berenis (Ocoee, Fla./Lake

Thursday

“Ne. . 1’ . ' 'n"_E.d' ‘ "’*‘";~’->5‘"U'**%"‘3*‘5€Y£¢:%&%5sTfJﬂ§2?~ﬂ&HiM%6W £*F§.

9

3. 

 il’rep) played the duration in goal} .

and made nine saves. Brown, Berenis and se- ,
nior defenseman Joe LaSala (Wilton, Conn./ 
Wilton) were all named to the all-toumamentfr‘
team. 
Lachlan pacedthe Maroons with four goals,
while Hayden had two goals and three assists. 
Pilat added one goal and three assists, and
Pease totaled 14 saves in goal. ' 

Washington and Lee will now wait to ﬁndf
out it if will receive an at-large bid to the
NCAA Division III Tournament which begins
with the ﬁrst round on Wednesday. The ﬁeld
will be announced this evening at 10:00 pm.

\
~

   
  

Saturday

 

Men’s Lacrosse

Women’s Lacrosse

1st round NCAA TBD

Men’s Tennis i

1st round NCAA TBD

2nd round NCAA TBD

3rd round NCAA TBD

Women’s Tennis

1st round NCAA TBD

2nd round NCAA TBD

3rd round NCAA TBD

Men’s Track atLynchburg

at Lynchburg

at Roanoke

women’s Track atLynchburg

 

at Lynchburg

at UVA Challenge

   
   

