 

  OPINIONS / page 3  

It's alt qredzto me!

Margaret Leer dives into the mysterious ,
world of Panhellenic and IFC.

A8lL/ page 6

  

    WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2 0 12

New rankings
place W&L high

Forbes, U.S. News and
Alumni Factor rate W&L

By Hamlet Fort
STAFF WRITE R

In July 2012, Forbes Magazine released their annu-
al rankings of the top colleges and universities across
the country. About three months later, U.S. News and
World Report released their highly anticipated list,
published on Sept. 12. Forbes placed Washington and
Lee University #15 in their overall national rankings
and #1 overall in their list for Colleges in the South.
In U.S. News and World Report’s list, W&L is #14
overall for liberal arts colleges.

W&L is consistently ranked highly in annual lists
of colleges and universities that analyze an institu-
tion’s overall performance, but other rankings exist in

“We ’re not really experts on the
various rankings and their method-
ologies. T hat would be a full time
job, and with so many different lists
and rankings, admissions doesn’t

try to keep track of them all. ”

Jonathan Webster, Dean of Admissions

smaller sub-categories.

According to The Alumni Factor, a new college
ranking platform that proclaims itself as “A Revolu-
tion in College Rankings,” W&L is also #1 in alumni
overall happiness and career success after graduation,
beating out schools like Yale, Stanford and Dartmouth.
These rankings are based purely on the career success
of a col1ege’s graduates based on income, job oppor-
tunities, intellectual development, and overall happi-
ness. Other, similarly speciﬁc rankings exist as well.

W&L is ranked #46 in “contributions to the public
good,” according to Washington Monthly, and is also
ranked #66 in research development. Kiplinger, the
Washington, D.C.-based ﬁnancial advice and business
forecast publisher, ranks W&L #2 overall in “Best Val-
ue for Private Colleges," based on the high graduation
rate (91.7%) and success after graduation. This\rank-
ing is consistent with the Alumni Factor ranking, and
W&L has been steadily rising in the rankings since
last decade.

The W&L Admissions Olﬁcc doesn’t pay much at-
tention to the rankings. Jonathan Webster, Associate
Dean ofAdmission‘s, doesn’t believe the rankings tell
us anything we didn’t already know about W&L.

“We’re not really experts on the various rankings
and their methodologies. That would be a full time
job, and with so many different lists and rankings, Ad-
missions doesn’t try to keep track of them all,” said
Webster.

“We’re always pleased ‘to be recognized as the
great school we are, though,” he added.

Webster also doesn’t necessarily claim that the
rankings impact the number of applicants in a given
year. The applicant pool fluctuates year-to-year, he
says, and the Admissions Ofﬁce can’t track how the
impressive rankings affect the group.

Despite W&L’s recent success in the rankings, Web-
ster said the rankings tend to be subjective. Webster says
he and his colleagues don’t know how the rankings are
calculated, and in fact, no one really does. Therefore,
the rankings can be taken for as much as they are - just
a list. »

BY THE

STUDENTS

AND

FOR THE STUDE

NTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXVI, NUMBER 2

Pass/fail goes electronic

Electronic pass/faildeclaration means less coordination with students and professors

By Krysta Huber
STAFF WR_1TER

Completing a course on a pass/fail
grading system is a viable, although
typically unpopular option for up-
perclassmen of Washington and Lee.
The process of declaring a pass/fail
grade was updated for the 2012-2013
academic year.

In the past, students declared the
pass/fail grade in paper form, re-
quiring signatures from the student,
instructor and academic adviser, ac-
cording to wluedu. The declaration
process will now be conducted elec-
tronically.

According to University Registrar
Director Mr. Scott Dittman, the tran-
sition from a paper to a digital decla-
ration is simpler and faster.

Dittman said: “While the paper
form did enforce face-to-face contact
between the student and the instruc-
tor, it makes more sense to send the
pass/fail declaration directly to the
instructor online. Students will now
spend less time trying to coordinate a
meeting with the instructor.”

According to wlu.edu, under the
pass/fail declaration section, students
will ﬁnd a list of all of their classes
for the given term. Courses that have
the option of a pass/fail grade will
appear with a check box and a green
message stating that pass/fail may be
declared for the course.

Although the pass/fail declaration
process was adjusted, the grading
policy remains the same. According
to wlztedu, pass/fail grading is only
available for upperclassmen and
is limited to elective courses. The
course may not be an FDR require-
ment or a course required for a stu-
dents major. 1

Despite the possibility of taking
a pass/fail course, very few students
elect to do so. The University Reg-
istrar records indicate that between

the fall terms of 2005 and 2011, the
highest number of students taking a
course on a pass/fail grade was 252,
in 2009. The lowest number was 57
students, recorded in 2008.

According to Dittman, the data is
largely affected by INTR-201, an in-
formation technology literacy course
that is required for all Williams
School majors and is only offered on
a pass/fail grade. Dittman attributed
the low 2008 number to the fact that
INTR-201 was not taught during the
fall term that year.

As an institution, W&L maintains
varying views on the possibility to
participate in a course with a pass/
fail grade. Philosophy Professor Paul
Gregory rarely permits students to
enroll in his classes using the pass/
fail system.

“I usually tell students that they
are not allowed to take my courses on
a pass/fail grade because I feel that
they are telling me that they are pri-
oritizing my course lower than their
other courses,” Gregory said.

Gregory was led to this conclu-
sion after a few students took his log-
ic course on a pass/fail grade. In one
situation, a student neglected every
assignment and paper for the course.
After failing, he approached Gregory
and explained that he couldn’t gradu-
ate without passing, but at that point
it was too late to reprioritize the work.

Gregory also had a student who
took his logic course on a pass/fail
grade, but would have otherwise re-
ceived an A for the term. While the
student did pass, an issue can arise
when applying for graduate school
and jobs. Most business profession-
als and graduate schools must fairly
weigh a pass/fail grade across all col-
leges and universities and do so by
awarding the minimum grade, a D-.

Students on the pass‘/fail grading .s'y.s'te/71 during the_ fall

terms of20()5—2()I I

252

*II .\/IHll/(/ /we nu/yd I/ml I/I/'\ 4/um i.\' .\’kc\u’l/ /‘_l' //it’ l.\ Tl\’—_’Il/ ("uitrxu I/ml ix /u/Iii/L-z//or all ll’/'//ilmm

SL‘ll(IlI/ /ing/'ur.\‘. and it UI1/A1‘ _ui\'i'H Ll />m'.\V/[Ii/ glut/L’. T/lL'l‘L'/(“II'L'. in _’/W\'_ //IL’ /ll/Ill/TU].I!//7ll\\>/LII’_Q/'1/lfL’\
i.\' mm’/I /uircr /lL.'L’UI(\'l' //IL‘ rm//'.\'z-' In/.\' not r:t/t’It'i/ in //IL’ /u// IUI'/I7.

“Overall, I feel that the pass/fail
system means grading a student on
a different level of standards and
throws off the dynamic for the stu-
dent and sometimes the professor,”
Gregory said.

The reason some faculty members
may support a pass/fail grading sys-
tem relates to the philosophy ofa lib-

eral arts education. “Having the abil-
ity to explore all over the curriculum
at a liberal arts college is especially
important and pass/fail grading acts
as a parachute for students who have’
a genuine interest in a subjectmatter,
but less time to focus on it,” said Dit-
tman.

First-year students try to avoid

“Graham-Lees Disease”

The new environment increases coughs, colds and viruses for incoming students

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

With coughs and sneezes heard
throughout campus, W&L’s student
body can be assured that school is
back in session.

“Any time that students have been
away and then come back is a peak
time [for illnesses]... becausepeople
have been to different places and
been exposed to different things,”
said Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Stu-
dent Health and Counseling Services.

in fact, a prime example of the

health dangers of changed environ-
ments occurred a few weeks ago.
“We did have an outbreak on one
of the Appalachian adventure trips,”
said Horton. “Someone who had
been sick was just getting over [a
gastrointestinal] illness, and then it
spread to several other people on the
trip.” The decision was made to end
the trip once the illness spread.
Although school medics were un-
sure, they suspected an illness known

as the Noro virus.

Aside from this particular strand
of disease, other medical issues are
more common at this time of year.

“We have a lot of people with al-
lergy symptoms because they are
coming from a different environ-
ment,” said Horton.

Grass pollen and ragweed are very
common at this time of the year, ac-
cording to Horton.

Horton added that pollen levels
have actually been especially high
the past few weeks.

“We are [also] seeing a lot of viral
upper-respiratory infections,” Horton
said.

First-year Anna Russell Thornton
was a victim of such illness.

“Being in close proximity to tons
of other people with totally new
germs certainly made it much easier
to get sick,” said Thornton.

“Most of these things are transmit-

ted through coughing and sneezing,
or germs on surfaces from cough-
ing and sneezing, [sharing] food and
drinks,” said Horton.

While we all know the typical sug-
gestions to prevent disease, such as
washing our hands, Horton presented
a challenge to the student body.

“The simple things work,” said
Horton. “The challenge is doing
them.”

There are a few suggestions to
boost our immune systems that many
of us overlook. For ﬁrst-years in a
new environment, this advice can
come in handy when trying to avoid

the “Graham-Lees Disease.”

“Make sure you are getting plenty
of fruits and vegetables to get Vi-
tamin C and other nutrients,” said
Horton. She added that without the
recommended 7 to 9 hours of sleep
for college students, immunity may
suffer.

“Alcohol can [also] play a role
in suppressing the immune system,”
said Horton.

Although W&L’s party scene
might thus be a factor in the spread of
illness, the academic atmosphere has
its role as well.

“I think that one of the stresses
here is the idea that even if you are
sick you need to go to class to keep

"up academically,” conjectured Hor-

ton.

However, she spoke on behalf of
the health department when she ad-
vised the student body.

Horton said, “We ask that if any-
one has a fever over 100.5, they stay
home from class. We ask that they
stay 3 feet away from people when
they are coughing and sneezing and
use ‘respiratory etiquette’vcough
into your elbow, cover your cough
with a tissue, throw it away, wash
your hands.”

On the bright side, ﬁrst-years
jumping in to a new environment
might be beneﬁting from the change.

“It has also motivated me to
take charge of my own health,” said
Thornton. “Here, 1 said, ‘It’s all me,
so I have to take care of myself.’”

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

wAsHiiic‘ToN 81 use UNIVERSITY

   

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2012

533192012

 

 

Seniors get “future” guidance

Career Development Oﬂice

By Kelly Mae Ross
STAFF WRITER

Abigail Horne wants to go to law
school, but she ‘attended a recent job
Search information session in Stackhouse
Theater just in case plans change. Home
said she isn’t ruling out getting a job after
graduation because she doesn’t have an
LSAT score yet.

“It’s a cover-all-bases-gesture,” said
the senior English and Classics double
major.

Home was one of about 70 seniors
who attended the information session
hosted by Washington and Lee’s Career
Development Center, formerly known as
Career Services. The Development Cen-
ter will host a series of other events about
graduate school applications, internships
and ﬁnding jobs.

The Development Center also offers
daily services from its ofﬁce located on
the top floor of Elrod Commons for stu-
dents of any year. These include resume
and cover letter critiques and practice in-
terviews.

Last year, more than half the students
in the graduating class of 2012 either had
or were looking for a job when they re-
ceived their diploma. About 36 percent
of the graduating class had a fulltime job
in-hand, and an additional 24 percent of

the class was seeking employment at that
time, according to a survey conducted by
the Development Center last academic
yean

Kimberly "Phillips, assistant director .

of the Career Development Center, said
she expects the number of members of
the Class of 2012 who have found work
to jump to about 60 percent when the
class is re-surveyed toward the end of the
calendar year.

These senior surveys are conducted
every year and the numbers have been
consistent over time, even through the
recession, Phillips said.

Some current seniors have already
gone to the Development Center for help
in the past few weeks, but Phillips said
most students shouldn’t be nervous if
they haven’t started searching and ap-
plying for jobs yet. The hiring periods
are different for employers in different
industries, said Phillips.

“It’s all about when employers are de-
termining what their needs are going to
be,-” Phillips said. This happens at dif-
ferent times during the year for different
industries, she added.

For example, fall is the time when em-
ployers in the ﬁnance ﬁeld begin hiring,

but many employers in public relations
and advertising don’t begin hiring until

after graduation in May, Phillips said
Even ~ ' 
though
there may i
be fewer
job oppor-
tunities for
recent col-
lege grads 3
than there 
used to be,
Phillips ' :
said the   3'
consisten- ‘E
cy of the
senior sur-
vey results
over the
past sev-
eral years ~
give her
conﬁdence
that the
Class of 
2013 will ” '
be able to H
ﬁnd jobs.
“I think

 

oﬂers information sessions to seniors seeking jobs after graduation

the seniors in 2013, they want to work
hard and they want to be successful,” she

said.

Can money buy happiness?

Dr. Carol Graham discusses how public policy, money and technology inﬂuence happiness

By Graham Colton
STA F F w R IT E R
Dr. Carol Graham delivered a lecture
called “Happiness Around the World:
Happy Peasants, Miserable Millionaires,
and Questions for Public Policy,” on
Sept. 13. A Senior Fellow at the Brook-

 

Dr. Carol Graham lectures in the
“Questioning the Good Life” seminar

ings Institution and College Park Pro-

fessor at the University of Maryland’s
School of Public Policy, Graham spoke
on the complex relationship between
public policy and happiness.

Happy people, she said, are in good

health, perform well in the labor market, ~

and participate in democracies. Less
happy people, on the other hand, are hap-
py only because of their friends, family,
and religion.

Graham also said that it is not govern-
ment’s job to make more people smile.
However, she said, “I do think that na-
tional policy should give people more
options for what they want to do with
their lives.”

Economists have been studying hap-
piness for about ten years now, according
to Graham. During this time, research
has focused on the relationship between
money and well-being. “Some individu-
als who are destitute report to be happy,”
Graham said, “while others who are very
wealthy are miserable.”

On average, people in wealthier coun-
tries are happier than people in poorer
ones.‘ For example, when the ﬁnancial
crisis of 2008 occurred, average national
happiness levels fell eleven percent.

Graham said that people adapt to their
environments to become happier in them.
Once in her own life, Graham was un-
happy because she had not adapted to
her environment. In a safe section of
Washington, D.C., Graham’s tires were
stolen. Since Graham had not adapted
to the crime of her environment, Graham
became unhappy. If her tires had been
stolen in Lima, Peru, Graham said, she
would not have been as unhappy because
she would have had already adapted to
the crime of her environment.

As Graham exempliﬁed, one is
more bothered by crime and corruption
if they are less prevalent around oneself.
Conversely, one is less bothered by crime
and corruption if they are more prevalent
around oneself.

Graham did not want to over-
look money’s role in happiness. “More
money. . . gives people agency and capac-
ity to control their lives more,” said Gra-
ham.

Not only are the rich happier than the

poor, they are also happier for a longer

time than the poor. “Experienced or he-
donic utility correlates much less closely
with income than does evaluative or eu-

daimonic utility, both in the United States
and around the world,” said Graham.

People who have access to the Inter-
net are on average happier than those
who do not. This is most true for women
in countries with unequal gender rights.
“The Internet,” Graham said, “is an
anonymousiway for women to have con-
nections to the outside world that they
otherwise cannot have.”

As the ﬁrst of six visiting speakers in
the Questioning the Good Life seminar
series, Graham kicked off a year-long,
University-wide colloquium on happi-
ness. Future speakers include a philoso-
phy professor, sociologist, and business-
man.

Derek Barisas ’ 13 was excited to con-
tinue the discussion on economics and
happiness, saying, “As a student leader
of the seminar series, I [was] particu-
larly excited for the lunch meeting [the
day after the lecture]. I think we had a
more personal atmosphere just to voice
our questions that arose during her pre-
sentation.”

Global
News

By Hannah Howard
STA_FF WRITER

Anti-Islam videos continue
to affect the safety of Ameri-
cans.

The Anti-Islam videos that
sparked controversy and violent re-
sponse continue to affect the United
States and its citizens. In the wake
of attacks and anti-American unrest,

. United States officials have ordered
non-essential government workers
and their families to evacuate Tuni-
sia and Sudan. The threat level con-
tinues in a critical state as the Sudan
government attempts to block the
activities of terrorist organizations.

Spanish bailout prevention
backﬁres

The Spanish govemment’s at-
tempt to prevent ﬁnancial bailout has
backﬁred with the people of Madrid.
New policies designed to decrease
spending and increase taxes are be-
ing met with great resistance. Over
10,000 people attended the rally in
Madrid, many of whom were bussed
in from surrounding towns.

Dutch Liberal Party con-
siders coalition with Labour
Party

After a close election in the
Netherlands, the Dutch Liberal Party
has come out on top. They gained
the most votes in the history of the
party. However, representatives stat-
ed on Friday that talks have stayed
focused on the idea of forming a co-
alition with the Labour Party. Many
oﬂicials have also suggested incor-
porating other smaller parties, such
as the Socialists, Liberal Democrats
D66 and Christian Democrats.

Gambia death sentences
halted
Thirty-seven inmates who had
been sentenced to die in Gambia had
their sentences halted on Saturday.
Gambia’s President Yahya Jammeh
chose to suspend their executions in
an attempt to prevent violent crime
rates from rising in the country.
This decision was also a response to
many activist groups’ reaction to the
executions in Gambia last month.

Ukraine EU membership
unlikely
The_ Ukraine’s prospect of be-
coming a member of the European
Union is looking grim. On Friday,
EU officials told the Ukraine that
they would not be granted member-
ship as long as former Prime Min-
ister Yulia Tymoshenko is in prison.
In October of last year, Tymoshenko
was imprisoned by the country’s
new leadership. The charges includ-
ed abuse of ofﬁce, however Tymosh-
enko is denying all claims.

W&L seeks change in master plan for Lee-Jackson House

Lexington Planning Committ

By Yejean Kim

s TA F F w R IT E R
A public hearing on Thursday at the
Rockbridge County Administrative Of-
ﬁces decided whether an application sub-

Built in 1842, the Lee-Jackson House sits between the Lee House and the Morris House, back-

mitted by Washington and Lee to change
its Master Plan would be approved to go
before City Council.

If approved, the amendment in con-
sideration would allow W&L to use
the Lee-Jackson House for office and

residential use, speciﬁcally as a dean’s
office. Currently, W&L’s Master Plan
states that the house is for faculty resi-
dential use.

Originally built in 1842 for the Uni-
versity’s president, the Lee-Jackson

if ‘ House was later converted into offices.

lng Graham-Lees. The University hopes to make this historic landmark more accessible.

Most recently it was a residence for the

'_ Vice President of Student Affairs.

Lexington’s Planning Commission
presided over the meeting. Also in at-
tendance were Steve McAllister, Tom
Contos and John Hoogakkes, Execu-
tive Director of University facilities.

Contos, W&L’s architect and uni-
versity planner, stated in a previous
email that the change was “minor.”

McAllister, W&L’s Treasurer and
Vice President of Finance, said the
change would constitute a “relatively
modest renovation,” and would not
have a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial impact on
the University.

However, according to Michael D.
Zehner, director of Lexington’s depart-
ment of Planning and Development,
public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council are “re-
quired prior to action on a request to
amend the University’s Master Plan.”
Zehner went on to state at the meeting
his recommendation that the motion be
approved.

As the applicant, Contos was called
upon to address the commission. In a

ee discusses W&L is plan to use the historic Lee-Jackson house as a dean 3 oﬁice

previous email, Contos said the house is
a “National Historic Landmark” and us-
ing it as a “dean’s office” would “allow
students and other visitors to experience
a historic campus building that has been
private space for the last decade.”

The changes would also “free up
space in the newly renovated Washing-
ton Hall for faculty and student use,”
said Contos. At the meeting he also said
that this usage would cause “less wear
and tear” onthe house.

The application eventually gained
approval to go before City Council, but
there was a short debate after it was ap-
proved. Planning Committee member
Camille Miller questioned the effective-
ness of the overall bureaucratic proce-
dure concerning Master Plan amend-
ments, asking if it was “serving the city
well.”

Zehner also questioned the process’
efficiency and said that an “ordinance
change” concerning the Master Plan
would be more useful.

As a result of the debate, a motion
was submitted to forward to City Council
an endorsement of a change in the zon-
ing ordinance, with reference to W&L’s
Master Plan. This motion was approved.

The next public hearing concerning
the Lee-Jackson House is scheduled for
Thursday, Sept. 20, before City Council,
and will decide if the amendment will
pass.

 

 

M0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

opinions  

 

Drunkorexia

Managing Editor Julianna Satterly describes a campus phenomenon and how to ﬁx it

By Julianna _Satter|y
MANAGING EDITOR

It would be easy to write my ﬁrst
editorial about the new image of the
Phi, but there are more important issues
on campus than the status of the school
newspaper. Instead, since this is my ﬁrst
crack at the frosh, I want to focus on a
different image. It is not a well-covered
secret that this campus exudes a
certain... image. Men and women alike
feel the same pressure to dress, act, and
look a very speciﬁc way. Don’t believe
me? Look around when you walk
to your classes. But it’s not just the
pressure to dress the same way that we
feel here. The pressure to stay thin is a
nationwide epidemic that coexists with
our revulsion to rising obesity statistics.
Throw in tongue-in-cheek jibes about
the “Freshman l5” and we are all led in
the same direction: thin is in.

College students go to some scary
lengths to stay skinny. I could talk for
hours about eating disorders on this
campus, but there will soon be a ﬂurry
of brightly colored ﬂyers in all the
common restrooms from the fantastic
organization LIFE, that will advise y’all
of their dangers. I don’t want to steal
their thunder. My beef is with the even

l 

roject

   

i u.

Barbie’s proportions p

        

ed onto a “normal” woman. Impossible-to

achieve role models like Barbie only exacerbate modern cultural ideals.

scarier issue that plods right along,
unseen, at our tiny school where social
drinking is the norm: Drunkorexia. I see

it every day at Srat Lunch when girls
grab a plate full of salad and nothing
else. I live it when I pick someone up

off the ﬂoor. Drunkorexia is not an
ofﬁcially-recognized disease, and yet
almost 20 percent of college students
suffer from the compulsive need to
“save up” the day’s calorie rations for
alcohol at night. That’s one in ﬁve.
It’s a seriously simple thought

process to fall into. To stay a certain
weight, an average person who
exercises must eat about 1300 calories
per day. A can of Natty Light has 95
calories; a screwdriver in a Solo ‘cup
has 375 calories; each shot of Absolut
sits at about 69. It adds up pretty fast
if you assume an average drinking
night runs from about 8 pm to 1 am.

. That means if you only have 1300

calories a day, and you’re going to use
900 calo'ies on a Friday night (even
drinking responsibly), you only have

a few hundred calories to squander for
meals. Not only is it dangerous to eat so
little, but low energy wreaks havoc on
a tolerance. Downing a couple of shots

' on low energy drastically increases your

BAC. Get to a BAC of0.3 and
you’ll slip into a coma. You may
not wake up. Ever.

Fall term is a big party term

Rooms for improvement

Sophomore Neil Haggerty discusses the pending Gaines and Graham-Lees remodels

By Neil Haggerty
N E w s E D I T o R

As ﬁrst—year students moved into
their dorm rooms this fall, they learned
that this is the last year that ﬁrst—year
students will be living in Davis, Gaines,
Gilliam and Graham-Lees residence‘
halls as they are today. All future
ﬁrst-year students will live in either a
renovated Graham-Lees or a completely
gutted and transformed hall-style
Gaines. With this decision comes a lot
of frustration from students, especially
those living in the current suite-style
Gaines Hall.

While some students argue that
ﬁrst-years should have an option to live
in a more quiet and secluded suite-style
dorm, the new ﬁrst-year dorm plan
offers a consistent experience for all

incoming students.

Gaines, in its current layout, breaks
students into small groups of four or
ﬁve and separates them from the rest
of the students living in the other suites
in their halls. This setup limits social
interaction between suites and takes
away the larger group “hall bonding”
experiences available to students in
Davis, Gilliam and Graham-Lees.

It is much more diﬁicult for
introverted students living in the current
Gaines setup to branch out of their
suites. Because the halls connecting the
suites are long and dark, students are
less likely to congregate and socialize
outside of their suites.

While there is a game room in

Gaines, it is located at the comer of

the building and may be too large to
facilitate the close relations that Davis,
Gilliam and Graham-Lees offer in halls
of 10 people in close proximity of each
other. ’ '

living in this building. The rest of the
students in the hall are upperclassmen.
When all of the ﬁrst-year students

are living together in ﬁrst-year-only
housing, it will be much easier to create
a ﬁrst-year community that includes the

“The plan to renovate the ﬁrst—year dorm is a step in

the right direction in fostering aﬁrst—year class com-

munity. ”

On top of the separation created
between the suites in Gaines Hall, there
are also only 80 ﬁrst-year students

entire ﬁrst-year class.
All students should have the
opportunity to make a fresh start

1

here, and the pressure for everyone to
drink is enormous. So much so that
only 10 percent of students abstain
throughout the year [2012 statistics].
I’m not telling you not to drink, because
that would be wasted breath. I’m just
asking you to eat well during the day.

’ If you’re so concerned about calories,

don’t drink at night. Or better yet,

drink water. But the combination of
calorie rationing and alcohol is a deadly
combination. According to one study,
Drunkorexia contributes signiﬁcantly to
short- and long-term cognitive problems
including difﬁculty concentrating,
studying and making decisions. Armed
with the facts we can drastically reduce
the number of occupied beds in the
Health Center on any given party night.
First-years, I know it’s easy to get
sucked into the fervor of W&L life. I
also know that you scored above a 1970
on your SATs. Y’all have a brain. Use
it.

For more in/ormcrlion. or to get
help, ('()l7f(lCl the Sn/dent Health

Center at (5 4 U) 45 8-84 ()1

 

in college and be a part of a new
community. By giving all ﬁrst-year
students a comfortable hall-style '
experience, with common rooms in
each hall, the university is allowing all
new students the same opportunity to
meet the same number of people in the
exact same setting as everyone else.
The plan to renovate the ﬁrst—year

dorm is a step in the right direction in
fostering a ﬁrst—year class community.
The close-knit hall-style dorms with
common rooms will facilitate a more
social community and will bring the
consistency needed for every ﬁrst-year
dorm experience.

With the nationwide lack organization will write on excuse. It is an election year,
‘ of intelligable discourse
in political debate, W&L

College Democrats and

topics from public policy it is your country, and it is

to medical marijuana and T your government. Coming

back. Both arguments will to you in our ﬁrst segment is

College Republicans be presented side-by-side immigration. See y’all next

intend to break away from with no commentary. It is week!‘

‘i the norm. Every W€6l(. up to you to be informed

members of each respective and be involved! There is no

 

 

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2012
Opinions Editor Beall shares his article written for Karl Rove 3 and CRN C is PA C, Crossroads Generation ' ,
By JP Beall ' I
OPINIONS EDITOR

In many ways, American politics with her teenage brother. mathematics, but had to work as a do not count in the unemployment rate, above 13%, years alter the Obama
is the politics of conscience. Our Another friend of mine living in handyman to pay his college debt, tried in vain to ﬁnd jobs. administration said the crisis had “hit
Congressmen, Senators, and Presidents Chicago called a handyman to help because it was the only job he could This is the world we college bottom.”
must lay by conscience, and come every repair his garbage disposal. When the ﬁnd. students must compete in. We must Vast parts of the country have been
election, American voters must evaluate compete with the general unemployed, forgotten in the recovery, and they were
the State of the Union, and vote by their Even across the country, the recovery experience discouraged workers, and the last four often the worst hit.
consciences. I ' - _ graduating classes of students across the If you listened to President Obama’s

It is especially important for us, the has been lopsided, Whzl e there IS plenty ofbuzldzng country to ﬁnd work and strike out on State of the Union speech, listening Q

future of America, to look around us
and to vote with our consciences, and
be heard, because this country is our
greatest inheritance.

No one wants economic hardship,
but it happened anyway. President
Obama clearly had wanted to focus on
other things back in 2008. But even in
his recovery plans, people have been
left behind. People like us. College
students and graduates. The future of
America.

One of my closest friends is one
such familiar case. She just graduated
ﬁ'om law school in Norfolk, Virginia,
and attended a top private college for
undergrad. But she cannot ﬁnd work,
and is living at home, sharing a room

going on around DC, areas like Florida and most
of the west are still sitting at the bottom of the

economic crater.

handyman arrived, he was shocked
that he was in his mid-twenties. The
handyman walked into the apartment,
and saw a whiteboard that belonged
to one of the others living in the ﬂat,
covered with complex math, and
shocked my friend all over again. He
started to talk about the work on the
board and critique it. The handyman
had advanced graduate degrees in

The current administration

has tried to address the economic
problems ravaging the country, but

the implementation has been lopsided.
The unemployment rate has not been
below 8% for 43 straight months. The
unemployment rates actually increased
over the last few months to 8.3% as a
wave of discouraged workers, those
who have given up on ﬁnding work and

our own.

And if you’re looking to buy a house
for yourself, you can forget about that!
With no proof of income or income to
speak of, all we can afford to do is wait
and hope. .

Even across the country, the
recovery experience has been lopsided.
While there is plenty of building going
on around DC, areas like Florida and
most of the West are still sitting at the
bottom of the economic crater.

The highways in DC are all freshly
paved. The highways in California
have not been paved since 1950.
Unemployment in parts of Southern
California are still above 10%.
Delinquency rates in Florida are

vainly to hear the President mention
your area for signs of improvement

in his long list of areas he has sought
to help, you will hear DC, New York,
Charlotte, Chicago, and St. Louis
multiple times. I never heard anything
west of St. Louis or south of Charlotte
once. Newsﬂash, folks, the Louisiana
Purchase was 209 years ago. Unlike
state-run healthcare, this is not up for
debate.

With all due respect to our president,
but we cannot try the same thing twice,
and expect a different result. A highly .
respected scientist once said that was
the deﬁnition of insanity.

I am voting for hope and change.
That’s why I’m voting Mitt Romney.

Rough waters ahead, Captain

Staff Writer Yates Wilburnfathoms the deep interlocking webs of foreign policy Chinese foreign policy

By Yates Wllburn
5 TA F F w R I T E R
Threats of a military strike against

Iran. Growing demands for intervention
in Syria. China pushing its claims in
the South China Sea. And now, our
embassies are under attack across

the Middle East. All of these issues

are inextricably linked—save for the
embassy attacks~—and the outcome of
one can have a direct impact on the
results of all the others.

The common factor in all of them
is an increasingly desperate China,
struggling to deal with an economy that
can’t maintain the mythical 8.5% GDP
growth rate economists say is needed to
placate her repressed population. When
combined with the recent disappearance
of Chinese Vice President and
presumptive presidential successor Xi
Jinping and the political opera that is the
B0 Xilai case makes for a disturbingly
tense situation in China.
How the United States handles the

defense of its interests in any one of
these issues will make it all the more
likely to encounter some form of
diplomatic head butting or even open
conﬂict on the other two issues, setting
the stage for a horrifying blow up that
could plunge the world (at least) back
into recession or into some limited
conﬂict that both the US and China will
ﬁnd difﬁcult to mediate or avoid.

Let’s start with Iran. While China is
rapidly attempting to cleanse its energy
portfolio of the stain of Iran due to I
increasing risk, it still got over 10% of
its oil imports from Iran as of last year.
To put that in perspective, the United
States got 12% of its oil imports from
Saudi Arabia, and 9% from Venezuela
in 2008.

Therefore, China has a strong
incentive to maintain the status quo
as long as possible, to allow them to

diversify away before things go up in

COPY EDITORS
STAFF WRITERS

GRAHAM COLTON
VICTORIA BELL
SHELBY FLORES
HAMLET FORT
LEAH GOSE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER
YEJEAN KIM

smoke. Oil
makesup
———————:———— WASHlNGl‘ONANDl.EEUNlVERSl’l'Y —————-—j J-ustunder
T E R T PHI °f
H   o China’s
‘ energy
portfolio,
MANAGING EDITOR IULIANNA SATTERLY .
NEWS EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY a.“d"‘”“
OPINIONS EDITOR JP BEALL “Rely
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR CYNTHIA LAM Playan
SPORTS EDITOR LEIGH DANNIIAUSER increasing

role in it in the future. Any military
strike against Iran’s alleged nuclear
weapons facilities from Israel, the US
or both will create a situation that could
escalate into an open war that China
could not afford to ignore.

This explains China’s renewed and
aggressive pursuit of its territorial
claims in the South China Sea, which
range from inhabited islands to spits
of rock that are only above water for
6 hours everyday. These efforts are
largely aimed at gaining control over
large oil and gas deposits in the areas
of dispute, with the added bonus of
controlling all maritime traffic through
the Sea.

This obviously does not sit well with
other countries in the region, including
Vietnam, the Philippines, and Thailand
to name a few. As a result, these
nations—including Vietnam, arguably
in the biggest way of the group—have
begun warming up to the United States,
who has recently begun its long overdue
diplomatic and military “pivot” to Asia.

However, the most immediate and
pressing issue on the docket is the
Syrian Civil War, which continues to
kill hundreds everyday. China has an
economic interest in Syria in terms of
weapons and investment, and hopes to
keep Bashir Al-Assad in power, or at
the very least have a hefty say in how

O’ '
he leaves and who replaces him. A similar outcome resulted from
Not eager to repeat the situation NATO’s intervention in the Balkans
in Libya where the UN/NATO task . over the protests of Russia, at the ‘
force——~in both China’s and Russia’s expense of Georgia in 2008. The risk
However, the most immediate and pressing issue on
the docket is the Syrian Civil War, which continues
to kill hundreds everyday. China has an economic
interest in Syria in terms of weapons and investment, .I

and hopes to keep Bashir Al-Assad in power...

view——overstepped the boundaries of
the relevant resolutions, China will
never authorize a no-ﬂy zone over
Syrian airspace. This clashes with US
efforts to—at the very least—accelerate
Al-Assad’s removal via the UN.

All of this threatens China’s
economic growth and therefore the
Communist Party of China’s already
weakened authority and legitimacy
among the Chinese people. In this
sense, China would not take kindlyto
any sort of overly hostile efforts by the
US to resolve any one of these issues
against their favor without their input,
and would likely take out their anger
on the US in one or both of the other
disputes.

here is a quick escalation between US
and Chinese proxies that spirals out
of the control of either party, forcing
the US and China into a standoﬁ" that
carries the chance of open or at least
proxy conﬂict.

The world is becoming more and
more dangerous every day these
situations are leﬁ to fester, and must .
be resolved in a way that both the
US and China can tolerate with
limited bitterness. The next president,
whomever that is, must be prepared
to embody the words of Theodore
Roosevelt and, “tread lightly and carry
a big stick.”

Red light, green light -

Columnist Victoria Bell discusses the realities of policy gridlock

By Victoria Bell
STAFF WRITER

MARGARET LEER
ANDREA OWEN

LISA STOISER

SARAH WARD
ALLIE WEISS '
YATES WILBURN
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

KELLY MAE ROSS

MAGGIE VOELZKE

THE RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully.

and thoroughly report news affecting the

Washington and Leecommunity for students,
faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold

leaders accountable. Through our reporting,

we aspire to spark discussions that lead to
discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board. which
can be reached at mediaboard®wiu.edu, but
is otherwise lndependent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters

and advertising do not necessarily reflect

the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of

libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

The media lament over “gridlock”
and “hyper partisanship” in Congress.
Yet, the Founding Fathers established the
United States’ government to be effective
in legislation and its public policies, not '
necessarily efficient. Public policy is deﬁned
as “an intentional course of action followed
by a government or official for resolving
an issue of policy concern.” While likely
not the desired end of public policy, this
deﬁnition holds true in politics today. Rather
than prioritizing policy that best serves
consituency needs, modern public policy
generally acts to resolve issues of contention.

Public policy would best serve the public
through recognition of its incapacity to
make everyone happy. Benjamin Franklin
observes that “to serve the public faithfully,
and at the same time to please it entirely is
impracticable.” Sought after policies should

be those that serve the most collective public.

Instead, many policies are implemented to
appease short-term public concern and fulﬁll
backdoor deals made between Congressmen
on the hill.

The two feature U.S. political parties,
Democratic and Republican, establish and
act on issue platforms. As demonstrated at
the Democratic National Convention earlier
this month, the Democratic Party prioritizes

social issues such as women’s health and
human rights in zealous debate. Such issues
are at the forefront of today’s campaign
because the party recognizes these are issues
of great contention with the public, and

the party seeks to resolve these issues and
appease the public’s concerns through policy
implementation.

For example, President Obama

attempted to resolve an issue of policy
concern through the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act (PPACA). While some
praised its enactment, its passage raised a
variety of policy concems and questions of
constitutionality, the role of government in
healthcare, tax reform, the Federal budget,
government spending, and entitlement
reform. In fact, over the course of a decade,
PPACA operation costs will be over $2.7
trillion. The rhetoric of “yes we can” and
“healthcare for all” loses power when the
public is hurting for jobs, living costs are

on the rise, the bubble of student loan debt
looms, and savings accounts are shrinking.
Rather than a mandated action with tax
consequences for noncompliance, liberation
of healthcare insurance sales across state
lines and veneration of an individual’s liberty
to choose to buy or to not by health insurance
would underpin the healthcare market.

James Madison wrote it would be “vain to
say that enlightened statesmen will be able to
adjust...clashing interests and render them all
subservient to the public good. Enlightened
statesmen will not always be at the helm.”
Just as the Founding Fathers describe what
man should be, Franklin describes what
public policy should be.

To appease every single interest of the
public is not feasible. To not serve in the best
interests of the public is to disregard one’s
duty as an American. To implement policies
that maintain the public’s best interest while
simultaneously pleasing the public’s desires
is a Utopian ideal, but it is an ideal that
should garner priority.

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17-, 2012

5 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

arts&|ife

. Meet and greet IFC and Panhellenic

Sound like all Greek to you? Have no fear;here is everything you ’ve ever wanted to know about these governing bodies

 

By Margaret Leer
s TA F F w R 1 T E R

Greek life is no secret at Washington
and Lee. With 14 fraternities and 6
sororities, these nationally-recognized
organizations make up roughly 80%
of the student body. Such a large
involvement makes Greek life part of
a strong tradition at W&L. However,
Greek life has one aspect that many
students are unfamiliar with: the
Interfraternity Council (IFC) and the
Panhellenic Council (PanHel).

While most people know that these
are the governing bodies of each
national fraternity and sorority on
campus and are crucial to the campus-
wide Greek system, many do not know
exactly what they do for students.

Members (PNMs) and upperclassmen
alike to‘ learn about the governing bodies
of Greek life and understand what they
do for W&L.
Q: What is the IFC?
A: Led by President Danny

Murray, ‘13, the IFC consists of seven
oﬁicers from various fraternities who
work together to “promote the best
interests of all Greek fratemities”

on campus. According to the IFC
constitution, its primary objectives

are education— “making certain, all
Greek men are aware of expectations
and opportunities for personal
development,” programming——- “leading
and motivating Greek men and Greek

entire campus and community,”
and mediation ——”training
Greek men to address difﬁcult
issues, confront inappropriate
behavior, and hold themselves
and others accountable.”

Q: What is PanHel?

A: A group of eight sorority
women led by President
Alexandra Frazier ‘l3, PanHel
“serves to enact positive change
within our campus community,
as well as promote the active
and engaged involvement of
sorority women in university
life.’’ According to its mission
statement, the main goal of the

Pictured from left to rlght: All Greenberg,
Lauren Hopklns, Anne Stafford, Grace Caruccl, Alexandra Frazler, and

éhand

     

V w

lerwatllngton, Anna

 

      
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  

organization is to be

‘ “a proactive and educational

. resource for Greek women”

‘ through various sponsored
events, fundraisers, and
opportunities hosted throughout
the school year.

Q: What are some common
misconceptions students have
about the IFC and PanHel?

Myth: The governing
bodies’ chief responsibility is
punishment.

Truth: Ideally, they promote
self-govemance within the
individual chapters and only
step in when absolutely
necessary. Instead, these groups
seek mainly to promote and
organizations to provide social and improve Greek life for the students as
educational opportunities that beneﬁt the well as organize the recruitment process.

Myth: The IFC and PanHel butt
heads with the administration at W&L.

Fact: The Greek governing bodies.
have a great relationship with W&L
administration. They actually work
closely together to improve Greek life
for all students involved.

Myth: The IFC and PanHel are two
different organizations.

Both organizations are collaborating
and planning events that will be co-
sponsored by the IFC and Panhellenic.
Q: Why should you “Go Greek?”
A: According to Murray: “It seems
like a choice you have to make because
such a large number of people are
involved. However, you shouldn’t join
because it’s popular, but because of the

   

Pictured from left to rlght: James Grasso, Reld Grler, Danny Murray, Nor-

rls Laffltte Ill, Harper Coulson, John Straton, and Jon Hale
Truth: The IFC and Panhel are

working closely together this year
to dispel any notion that female and
male Greeks are completely separate.

strength of the brotherhood. There is
diversity between each chapter that can
offer a lot to individuals. It really is a
unique system.”

As informal recruitment begins, it’s
important for both Potential New

Students lea p right intotree

Forget about tubing down the Maury; students take adventure to extreme heights with this swinging new pastime.
By Maggie Voelzke -*1 s 1 ' ea ’_,;[.
s TA F F w R 1 T E R ’ 2
Washington and Lee students have long
used the Maury River for lazy Spring Term
tubing and swimming. Trees shade the cool
water and the slow current allows for hours
of sunbathing and catching up with friends.
Recently, however, students have been
using the river for something a little more
adventurous——tree swinging and jumping.
Located ﬁve minutes down the road from
the Pole Houses is a small stretch of river
marked by a grassy path and rusted, outdoor
grill. A small rope swing hangs from the tree
closest to the road, accessible via a wooden
latter nailed to the trunk. Swingers can jump
from different heights based on comfort, and

    

 

drop off into the Maury only a few yards from have also discovered the spot and can be seen
the exit latter. Depending on jumping speed, jumping from the trees after school lets out
swingers can throw themselves off the swing during the week.
into the deeper part of the river. Whether you’re a daredevil or just enjoy
For an even higher jump, the tree on cooling off aﬁer a long week, tree swinging
the opposite bank is taller and has a series and jumping provides quick and easy access
of metal rings attached to use as a ladder. to a little bit of adventure and fun. By foot,
Climbers can still jump from varying heights, the location is a 15-minute hike on the trail
but this time the jump is vertical and jumpers behind the pavilion. By car, it is a ﬁve-minute
hit the water at a greater speed. drive past the Pole Houses, and there is a
There has been a rise in student use of this single parking space a little up the road. It is
location this fall. The 2012-2013 Residential open to all students and can be used at any
Advisors visited over their summer training, time. A
and first-year halls and sports teams have
also joined in the fun. Local high schoolers

criii cl nun out (3](LeX.

|il2|.\‘l\'t.'tl h_v the tle|icio11st:1111_1_\' i11terc.xti11g, and the rare
lemon sauce that accon1panies c|1ancc to .x':1n1p|c gclato i11
tl1e x‘c:1loo<|. o1tI‘\’l1l2llll<1\\t1\\zlS|cI1\plit1g.
lhc entree c|1<1ices1':111gc‘ lhe hanai1:1-cl1ocolatc .\'\\ irl
troni :1 cheese plate to :1 §_'.cl:1to..x'c1'\‘etl i11 :1 n1:11’tini
\egeie—li11i'ge1‘ to :111 o\'cI1-
poacl1c<ls:1ln1o11stea|<.'l'|1c
loc:1l |n1i‘§__*e1‘. sen L‘tl \\ill1
apple citlcr sla\\ :1n<lc|1ip.x'.
is:n1ccoi1o111ic:1| tllltlL‘l£l.\'.\'lL‘

l"or.son1e |.exi11gto11i:111.x.
t|1e (‘ool Spri11g()rg_-:111ic
l\l:11'l\ct:111tl(‘;1lc is :1 Iresh
:111tle:1rtl1_\ l>re:1l< li'on1 t|1c
|11tt_\ last--|'ootlrestanr:1I1ts
t|1:1t litter l.ce ||igl1\\a_\.
.r\|l1cit. hcltl to the santc
const1'ictions t|1:1t a sn1:1|l
111en11 li‘onl :1 natio11:1l chain
re.xt:1111‘:111t laces. (‘ool Spring

‘_ ass. oll'c1'ctl :1 1'eli'c.x'l1i11p
\\a_\ to end :1 meal, h:1la11cing
tl1c strong |l:1\o1's ot‘ ha11:111:1
\\cll \\ itl1 chocolate ri|»ho11s
and :1 \a11illa—h:1.\'c<l gclato.

 

 

Male Voelzke mlrrors Tarzan and swings from tree to
tree during a fall day at the Maury Rlver.

 

xllll n1:11\:1gc.\' to oller 11p t|:1i|_v

\‘pcci:1l.\' in so11p.x':111¢lentrcc.\'.
co111hiningne\\~ ll:1\ror.x' \\ith
i11—sc:1soi1org:111ic protlncc
Jllltl meat.

'|'l1en1:1.x'tcrsol‘
present:1tion. (‘ool Spri11g ca11
|ll1ll\C any lacl\' i11 lla\or or
\a1‘ict_\' a poi11t ol'n1z1i11t:1ini11g_-

t1l'g1l|1lC roots antl ati11o.sp|1ere.

Slicer! h:1g11ette.x':11‘e sen ed
lllllllC(lltllL‘l_\ \\itl1:1l‘n||—
hotlictl o|i\c oil, 1'en1i11i.x'cenl
oliltalianrcsl:1u1‘:1I1ts:nnl
l'rcI1c|1c:1l‘es.'l‘l1c grilled
or;_»:n1ic .x'l11‘in1p, :1 somexxhat
c\pensi\e appeti/ct; is :1
111ncl1s111:1l|er\e1'sion
o|'\\h;1t is11orn1:1||_\'
i1n:1gi11etl.
but t|1e
(ll‘_\‘ grilled
taste is
1 well

choice lo1‘.st1nlc11t.\‘. Whilc
tl1c h111‘gcr.\' can he c:1.\'il\‘
o\'crcool\ctl (l .\11gg_1,c.\t _\o11
LlSl\ l‘oI"‘I1ietli11111“il‘}o11

are paltial to :1 c|1argrillct|
lnirgcr). atltlilions |i|\'e h:1co11.
caraiiicli/ctl onio11s.:n1t|
cl1c(ltl:1r:1<ltl c.\tra |l:1\ or to
thc n1c1li1n11 .\'l/Ctl patty.

- “( 'reate \'o1n'()\\n
lfI1t1‘cc.":1 popular 111cn11
.x'c|eclio11. :1llo\\x cn.x'toi11er.x' to
c|1oosehct\\ce11 :1 \e;_»et:1hlc
111e1l|c_\’\\ill1hro\\11riccor
p:1st:1, .\'er\‘ctl \\ it|1 n1_\ri:1(|
sauce cl1oicc.\:1It(l t|1coption.s
ol‘tol'n.e|1ic|\e11.orslirimp.
'l'hc roti11i pasta. topped
\\ itl1 pesto s:1ncc;111tl grilled
ClllCl\Cll. \\a.x' :1 light tllltl
li‘csl1cI1tI'eca1nl :1||o\\ Ctl for
:1 ll:1vorl‘11l sauce \\it|1ont
ontsliiiiing the subtle llavors
ofthe chicken.

l)essert choices \\ere

|’o1‘111:n1_\'sl1nleI1tx.(‘ool
Spring c:1I1hco11t.\'it|ct|1c
t‘ca.s'o1tal3lc price 1'a11gc(:1
tlnnicrhill c:111e:1si|y rcach
fo1‘t_\'tlol|z11‘.x‘l. hnt lot‘ :1
tlclightliil and (lillc1'e11t lxllltl
o|'t|:1teni;_-l1t.t‘oolSpri11;:l1:1s
t|1e at111oxphc1'c and it|eo|og;_\
to n1:1l\c it :1 \\oI'th\\lIilc
c\eni11§.-.

l.:1he|iI1g_1it>cll'z1x “li‘e\'|1.
org_':1nic.:1nt| .\'11x't:1i11:1l1|c.“
(‘ool .\'pri11j_; .\ll()lll(l I'ci11ai11:1s
axlaplc i11 tl1e l.c\iI1j;lo|1:1l'c:I
lorco111hiniI1g t:1.\t_\,o1‘};:111ic
options \\it|1\\ar1n lig;l1ti11j;.
:111 opcI1-l'(1on1 Iccl. and the
atltletl pc;1ce—ol'—111i11<l lot‘

customers li'on1 |\’11o\\in;_1 their
cl1oiccs:1rcl1caltl1)'.'|'l1:n1|\s
to the organic appeal ol‘(‘oo|
Spring. t|1c big price tag
al\\:1_\ s sccn1s snialler.

  

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2012

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&|ife'

 

Bored of Stonehenge? Try Foamhenge F

If you ’re tired of seeing the same landmark over and over again, take a chance and check out this iconic Lex version.

By Lisa Stoiser
STA F F w R IT E R

Looking to get away from the typical
on-campus classroom experience? For ,
less than $3.00 in gas (even less for
carpoolersl), sociology/anthropology
majors can speculate on the cultural
signiﬁcance of monuments and outdoor
ceremonies just inches away from the
giant, meticulously-placed blocks that
make up one of the Rockbridge County
Heritage Sites — F oamhenge of Natural
Bridge. More of a science center
person? The site provides educational
opportunities outside of the humanities
as well — physics/engineering majors
can spend a day exploring the structural
merits of polystyrene foam while
environmental studies students can
study the

_ is commonly known by the

   
 
 
  
  
 
 

decomposition of exposed landﬁll
materials in moderate climates.
Whatever your ﬁeld of study,
Foamhenge has it all.

Okay, so maybe Natural Bridge
isn’t ofﬁcially recognized as a
W&L study abroad destination, and
maybe Foamhenge is really just a
lousy bunch of upright polystyrene
foam blocks (the material

proprietary eponym StyrofoamTM)
arranged in a circle on top of a hill
in the middle of Nowhere, Virginia.
Perhaps the wizard sculpture
that overlooks the circle of faux
megaliths would have been less
creepy if its face hadn’t been cast
from a dead man. Nevertheless,
entrance to Foamhenge is free,
and the place offers the
opportunity to look at a
remarkably convincing
model for Salisbury’s
Stonehenge up close.
Mark Kline of
Enchanted Castle
Studios, the man behind
one of the most visually
accurate replicas of the
real Stonehenge, offers
these words, printed on
a Styrofoam block, at the
entrance to Foamhenge:
“Stonehenge took 1500 years
to complete using stones weighing

as much as 50 tons. An estimated
600-1000 men draggedthe stones from
Marlborough Downs, 20 miles north.
Foamhenge was completed in six weeks
 It took 4-5 Mexicans and one crazy
white man.”

The foam blocks appeared in their
current formation, which happens to
match exactly that of Stonehenge down
to the nicks in the blocks, around April
Fool’s Day in 2004. They will probably
occupy their current hill in some form
for the next million years (polystyrene
grains take a while to decompose)

unless someone decides to take a
chainsaw to the place and make off with
packing peanuts. Thanks to Kline’s
upkeep‘ and an intimidating cautionary
sign posted nearby (“Sometimes I

sit & watch. l’ll let you scratch on
Foamhenge as I do the same to your
parked vehicle”), the blocks are even
free of the grafﬁti and lovers’ initials
that most public monuments inspire.

Whether you want to take that

cute girl from math class on a quirky
stargazing date in the middle of

one of this millennium’s marvels or

Pictured above: Foamhenge in all of its shining faux glory, located right in the heart of Rockbridge County.

accidentally get lost on the way to

the Safari Park, be sure to check out
Foamhenge at least once while you’re
here at W&L.

Directions: Take highway 1]
South... thats it. After 15-20 minutes
of driving, past the zoo in Natural
Bridge, there 71 be a fence with at
“FOAMHENGE” sign on the right.

  A horse show to “beat” disabilities

Students, staff and community members gathered for a day of charity and racing at the Hear the Beat Horse Show

in

By Allie Weiss
s TA F F w R I T E R

Last Sunday was marked by an
important event at the Virginia Horse
Center in Lexington. Hoofbeats
Therapeutic Riding Center, a nonproﬁt
organization dedicated to the belief that
horses provide healing for those with
disabilities, hosted the Hear the Beat
Horse Show.

Deborah Work, Special Events
Director at Hoofbeats, notes that on .
average, such shows raise about $5,000.
Proceeds go towards maintaining and
continuing the work of the riding center,
which caters to those who are affected
by physical, emotional, mental, speech,
and learning disabilities.

This was the last in a series of three

fundraising shows this year. Of the
show, a Hoofbeats employee notes,
“Our riders learned so much about
teamwork, preparation, and goal setting,
as well as getting so

the key ideas ofthis therapy is that

horses are reactionary, and riders must
learn a certain degree of self~control in
order to command them. Furthermore,

Since 1993, Hoofbeats Riding
Center has been a place where people
afflicted with disabilities can feel
welcome. According to Work, staff

and volunteers spent

much experience!”
Riders of all ages
gathered to perform,
at once entertaining
crowds and promoting

the idea that horses are like they ﬁt in. It gives them a lot of conﬁdence. ’
ERICA SCHWOTZER, junior

an effective means of
treating different sorts
of handicaps. Equestrian
facilitated learning (EFL) is a type of
therapy which teaches communication,
discipline, and self-assurance. One of

“Everybody who works there is so incredibly nice

and welcoming. Kids can feel at home there, feel

the reward for doing so is almost
immediate, making EFL a positive
teaching style.

over 2,000 hours in

the last year alone
teaching students with
disabilities.

Junior Erica
Schwotzer, who
participated in Sunday’s
event, described her
experience volunteering
at Hoofbeats. “Everybody who
works there is so incredibly nice and

}

welcoming. Kids can feel at home there,

feel like they ﬁt in. It gives them a lot of '
conﬁdence,” said Schwotzer.

Students on the W&L Equestrian
Team have been getting involved with
Hoofbeats for years. Juli Sorenson,

a junior, remembered her time spent

at Hoofbeats. Said Sorensen: “It was
freshman year, and we had a group from
the Equestrian Team go out and help
with grooming the horses and getting
the kids ready. It was really fun.”

' Being an organization that survives
solely due to the help of volunteers,
Work added that their doors are always
open to students who wish to get
involved, regardless of past experience
with horses.

50 many organizations, so little time

Whether you ’re‘a brand new ﬁrst-year or a seasoned senior, there are plenty of opportunities to get involved on campus

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

We’ve all read those glossy
pamphlets, ﬁlled with statistics, trying
to prove that Washington and Lee is
the best university. One statistic they
always boast: 135 Undergraduate
Student Organizations. 135
Undergraduate Student Organizations
— all unique, all active, all adding to the
overall community of our campus. With
135 organizations, there is a place for
everypassion.

No matter whatyou are interested in,
there is an organization for it. W&L”s
clubs span a wide range of pursuits and
passions, from cultural societies like
the Pan Asian Association for Cultural
Exchange (PAACE) to intramural
athletics such as the rugby league to
volunteer service groups like Campus
Kitchen. And, if by some strange
chance there isn’t something that ﬂoats
your boat, start your own club! Thanks
to W&L’s encouraging attitude towards
student involvement, most organizations
are managed primarily by students
and need the enthusiasm of students to
continue operating.

The beautiful thingabout the A
beginning of the year is how easy it is
to get involved. Organizations are all
vying for your affection (or, I should
say, participation) and reaching out

to you. My favorite tactic: giving out
free food. Last week, multiple groups
hosted ice cream socials ~ Generals’
Christian Fellowship (GCF) and Student
Association for International Learning
(SAIL), just to name two. Cook-outs,
picnics, and bake sales also covered
Cannan Green during the ﬁrst few
weeks of school as organizations strived

to capture the student body’s attention.

And of course, the annual Campus
Activities Fair graced the lawn of
Carman Green. With representatives
from the majority of student
organizations, the Activities Fair was
a great opportunity for ﬁrst-years and

upperclassmen alike to learn more about -

the various happenings on campus.

Didn’t get to attend any of these
wonderfully informative sessions?
lt’s okay! With W&L’s tight-knit and
interactive community, you are bound to
get involved (whether you like it or not).
To learn more, check out the Student
Organizations Page online at the school
website.

 

   

Q

 

 

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBERII7, 2012

7 ° THE RING-TUM PHI '

  

    

By Shelby Flores

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee volleyball team suffered
a tough ﬁve-game loss to Averett University to close
out the weekend at the Warner Center. Averett’s 7-0
scoring run in the ﬁfth set helped the Cougars seal the
victory.

“I think Averett did a good job scouting us,” head
coach Bryan Snyder said about the last match. “They
played very aggressive.”

Junior outside hitter M.A. Boles led the Generals
in the match with 17 kills. Boles and sophomore de-
fensive specialist Kelly McManus led the team with
11 digs each. First-year right side hitter Maddie Kosar
tallied a career-high seven aces.

The weekend still proved a success for the Gener-
als. Wins over Lynchburg College and Randolph Col-
lege helped the team improve to an 8-4 overall record
and a 3-0 record in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference. ' -

First-year defensive specialist Mansie Hough led
the Generals with a season-high ﬁve service aces
against Lynchburg. McManus contributed 13 digs in
the win over the Hornets.

Sophomore middle hitter Katie Toomb led the T
team with 13 kills against Randolph. F irst-year setter .

Alex Kinzer tallied a career-high 31 assists.

“When we got the ball where we wanted it to go, ‘

our offense was as good as it’s looked this year,” Sny-
der said. “We just put ourselves in too many bad situ-
ations with bad ﬁrst touches.”

The team’s next match will be Wednesday, Sept. "

19 at 7 p.m. against Emory & Henry College in the
Warner Center. This weekend, the Generals will face
Virginia Wesleyan College at 12 p.m. and Mary Bald-
win College at 4:30_ p.m. at home on Saturday, Sept.
22.

>.s»~« '

. Va“

Junior setter Meghan Melesjki sets the ball
Photo from W&L Sports Info

Men fall to Guilford, 2-1

Generals fall short in a game ﬁlled with fouls
By Hailey Hartley
3 TA F F w R IT E R

Men’s soccer fell 2-1 in their ﬁrst ODAC
match-up against Guilford on Saturday night.

The Generals pulled out to an early lead with
ﬁrst-year Ben Bayles scoring at 5:18 of the con-
test. They continued their attack through the ﬁrst
half before allowing the Quakers to even the score
just before halftime.

Sophomore Chris Gillespie of Guilford opened

The game was a battle on both sides as over
30 fouls were given out, including four yellow
cards. Each team was given two yellow cards but
Guilford was charged with 20 fouls, nearly double
W&L’s 11.
The loss brings the Generals’ record to 3-2 (0-1
ODAC). They return to the ﬁeld on Wednesday
when they host ODAC foes Virginia Wesleyan at

  

  p o rts  

  Generals take 2 of 3 at home

:. Despite a late loss to Averetz‘, Volleyball improves to 8-4 record over the weekend with wins over Lynchburg, Randolph

  

Sophomores Toby D’Ambo|a and Al Organ with junior
Zach Clarke before a game

"' i .‘ ;'iI'.r-"-T“
‘- -mv '

Photo from W&L Sports Info

HAILEY HAl{'l‘LEY

This NFL season we saw a record setting
ﬁve Week—One rookie starters at the QB
-position, four of whom were ﬁrst round
draft picks. We saw everything from ar-
guably the best ﬁrst half performance by

  

Ii.-.AD

the second half with his second goal of the game 4230.
leaving the Generals trailing 2-1. Washington &
Lee took eight shots in the half but were unable to
even the score before time ran out.

Sophomore goalkeeper Albert Civitarese had
ﬁve saves for the Generals while playing the full

90 minutes in the net.

 

1m.I2 .nuar:Ia11

Andrew Luck - taken ﬁrst overall in last
spring’s NFL draft — will be a star. That be-

ment. Robert Griﬂin III will be a better
pro. This may seem a bit premature, but it’s

 

a rookie, Robert Griffin III, to equally
as arguably the worstvperformance by
a rookie, Brandon Weeden. Making a
statement early on is important in the
NFL, but lasting power is what wins di-

Rookie quarterbacks made big news in the
ﬁrst two weeks of the NFL season, Andrew
Luck and Robert Grifﬁn III included. Which
‘of the two rookie quarterbacks is better?

Hailey and Kyle give you their takes

a notion that’s worth considering. Grifﬁn’s
unique skillset — athleticism, arm strength,
and IQ — made him a Heisman award win-
ner less than a year ago. These abilities also
made him the talk of the NFL combine,
especially after he posted an ofﬁcial time

visions and championships.

Number one overall pick Andrew Luck

showed he isn’t ﬂawless in ‘his Week One performance
against the Chicago Bears. ' His mistakes were glaring
(three interceptions is nothing to ignore) but he threw for
over 300 yards, with a relatively unknown group of receiv-
ers. Luck showed chemistry with Pro Bowl receiver Reggie
Wayne and has a growing connection with Stanford team-
mate Coby Fleener. Players like RGIII and Cam Newton
seem to have less of a struggle with the transition from col-
lege to the NFL. This means that yes, RGIII will most likely
have a better 2012 season than Luck, but his style is not that
of a lasting career and championship wins. ‘I believe Luck’s
style of play is key to the adjustments he is going to have
to make on the ﬁeld. Luck plays with his arm and a pres-
ence in the pocket,,and he will have to adjust to the speed
that NFL defenses play with. He will make mistakes while
he makes this adjustment. Eli and Peyton Manning both
started during their rookie NFL year and hadesimilar weak
quarterback ratings and multiple interceptions. Now both
Manning brothers are Pro Bowlers with Super Bowl MVP
awards. The same can be said for Super Bowl Champion
and MVP Drew Brees.
The Colts have a long way to gogbefore they are contenders
but I think that by the second half of the season we will see
Luck. growing comfortable in the pocket. His timing and
accuracy should improve as he becomes more familiar with
NFL defenses. This will be a textbook rebuilding year for
Luck and the Colts, but it won’t be long before Luck is being
talked about as one of the elite quarterbacks in the NFL.

1 of 4.41 in the forty-yard dash. He also ran

an unoﬂicial time of 4.38 seconds, making
him just the second quarterback ever (Michael Vick the ﬁrst)
to run the dash in under 4.4 seconds. It is Griﬂ’1n’s physical
tools that drove the Redskins to mortgage their future, gam-
bling all their chips squarely on his shoulders, by trading up to
select him second overall. Many argued that the Redskins of-
fered too much in order to move up to the second overall pick,
but it seems as though RG3 has proven the doubters wrong
with his unbelievable ﬁrst game performance. In his ﬁrst regu-
lar season game, Griflin led the Redskins to a 40-32 victory
against the Saints — in the Superdome no less. His stat line was
even more spectacular than the end result: 19-26 for 320 yards
and 2 touchdowns. He also tacked on 42 rushing yards on only
9 attempts. He was voted Player of the Week, the ﬁrst QB in
the history of the league to do so in his pro debut. Luck, by
comparison, nearly doubled Griﬂin in pass attempts but only
completed 51.1% of hispasses. Luck also threw 3 interceptions
— the most telling sign that he might experience heavy grow-
ing pains in his ﬁrst season. Through one game, it seems that
Griffin has been able to transition almost seamlessly into the
NFL. Why, one might ask, has Griﬂin had an easier time than
Luck? The answer is multifaceted. RG3’s physical abilities may
be the best of any quarterback ever, but it is the intangibles he
possesses that will put him far above Luck when their careers
are said and done. Not many people know thatwhile at Baylor,
Grifﬁn made the Honor Roll every year. He graduated with a
degree in political science in just three years. He also intends
to apply to Baylor’s law school. Griﬂin clearly has a strong head
on his shoulders. When you combine this with his raw talent,
it is evident that Robert Griﬂin III will be a superstar for years
to come.

ing said, I’m going to make a bold state— «

  

the season. After being suspended 50 games last month for

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 17, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers

50,000

The number of total episodes that Sportscenter hit on Sept.

13.

.346 ,

San Franslcso Giant, Melky cabera’s batting average‘ for

testing positive for performance enhancing drugs, his sea-
son ended. His battlng average is still good enough to lead
the National League. He is one bat shy of having the neces-

sary total to win the batting title.

52-0  

The ﬂnal score in two NCAA football games on Saturday.
Number 1 ranked Alabama defeated Arkansas and Number

5 ranked Florida State University defeated Wake Forest.

6

The total number of sacks that Green Bay Packer
Clay Matthews has on the season. The next clos-

est is Henry Melton of the Chicago Bears with three.

soapbox

“We've shown we’re willing to give, but
they've got to be willing. It seems like  
there's a pretty hard line there, and they're
not willing to budge.”

-NHLplqyer8ydno1croeir/oniheiooitnutbetuleenplayers
andorrners.itIsihoeeooridIn8yeers,i‘iomESPN.com

“You don't do that. You don’t jeopardize the
offensive line, you [don't] jeopardize the
quarterback. Thank goodness we didn't V
get anybody hurt, that I know of, a couple
of linemen were late coming in [after the
game]."

-NowYori(GienisooechTbm0oimiInel'uarstmdqy'sganie
verotsuIe1brI1paBqyBuooer|oers.whentheGlanI3were
uidruei<rIeotoerIdtho¢emeversus1heBuccanee_n,ooach
engschlenodiedpdlytoid hispiqyerstotaio Giant’:
qInrterbed(,EiiMarllrl¢,to1he9'ound.11ioGianiswonihe
Qrno4.1-34.fl'omEsPN.oom

 

Generals take 2 ODAC games.

Women is soccer outscores opponents I9-0 this week

By Hailey Hartley
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington & Lee wom-
en’s soccer team won in dominat-
ing fashion twice this week, beat-
ing Hollins and Randolph l0-0
and 9-0 respectively.

The Generals ﬁrst hosted Hol-
lins on Wednesday, scoring seven
goals in the ﬁrst half. Sophomore

 

Sophomore midfielder Lauren Abraham
Photo from W&L Sports Info

Haley Ward started the game with
two unassisted goals within the
ﬁrst ﬁve minutes. Sophomores
Katherine Rush and Holly Bea-
sley also had two goals apiece.
A strong performance from the
team kept Hollins at only four
shots. Sophomore goalkeeper

Kingsley Schroeder made one
save «in the shutout while spend-
ing the full game in the net.

On Saturday the W&L women
traveled to Randolph where eight
players scored at least one goal.
First-year Becca Dunn led the
Generals with two goals. First-

year Addie Healy recorded the
only save for the Generals in the
match-up, splitting time in goal
with Schroeder. The Generals
improved their record to 4-1 (2-1
ODAC) and will travel to Emory
and Henry on Tuesday night in
another ODAC match-up.

FH steals win away from Kean

Stefanie keeps hopes alive by tying

By Shelby Flores
STA FF W RITE R

Sophomore defender Caroline
Andress’s game-winning goal in
overtime against Kean University
helped the Washington and Lee

ﬁeld hockey team improve to a

2-3 record overall. The neutral-
site game was played at Roanoke
College.

Junior forward Taylor Zusi as-
sisted the winning goal 8:38 into
the overtime period. The game-

winning goal marked the ﬁrst col-
legiate goal for Andress.
The win over Kean ended the
Generals’ two-game losing streak
and dropped the Cougars to 3-4.
This loss also marks the second-
straight overtime loss for the
Cougars. '
Junior midﬁelder _ Korri
Thompson scored Kean’s only
goal 14 minutes into the second

half.

The Generals’ victory would
not have been possible without
a late goal in the second half by
sophomore forward- Candice Ste-
fanic. Assisted by ﬁrst-year for-
ward Sydney Tomaso, Stefanie
scored with 10 seconds left in the
second half to force the overtime
period. It was Tomaso’s ﬁrst as-
sist and point in her collegiate

the score with I 0 seconds left

career.

First-year goalkeeper Megan
Axelrod helped the Generals with
10 saves in her ﬁrst collegiate
start for W&L. Including’ over-
time she played the full 78:24 in
the net.

The Generals will face the
University of Mary Washington
at 6 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 18 on
the W&L Turf Field.

Sophomore defender Caroline Andress

ondeck

Photo from W&L Sports Info

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
Women’; Saccer VSE&H5Z30 vsVaWes3pm
Men's Soccer vsVaWes4:30pm atH‘S3pm
Field Hockey vsMaryWash.6pm atR-M4pm
womenvs Tennis atMaryWashington8am
Men's Cross Country D9°g:’§3°gn'1"V”°
G 0 I f at Bridgewater Day 2
voneyban vsE&H7pm Homeat12and4:30

 

  

