 
  

013

- WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVl|,NUMBER18

    

thought we were

the Generals...
And yet our Rugby Club
is named the Screaming
Minks. Wondering why?

    

N690“
A ‘Z

opinions | 5
Are we too perfect?

We all know that we go to
a top caliber school. Is it
starting to affect our per-

sonal lives?

Friend us on
Facebook!

  

/6

“  @ringtumphi

   

"..”* "ir’

Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or

at; ”I<éI>“‘

News...2
Opinions...5
Arts & I.ife...6
Sports...9

,,>;AA_t,, Wednesday
7. Partlysunny

 26°-44°

      

Thursday
Partly Sunny

25°-46°

Friday
Partly Sunny

32°-51°

Saturday
Partly Sunny

33°-51°
Sunday
Cloudy & Rainy

38o_ 530
Monday
Sunny

   

  
   

    
  

  
 

  

  

 39°-62°- -

Taking ethics to  
the next level

Philosophy Professor Angela Smith was named Director of the Mudd
Center for Ethics thanks to Roger Mudds $4 million donation.

By Neil Haggerty
N E ws E D I TO R

Washington and Lee University is
the logical place for the study of ethics,
says award-winning journalist Roger
Mudd.

Mudd, a 1950 graduate of W&L,
donated $4 million for an ethics center
on campus to be directed by Philosophy
Professor Angela Smith.

Smith says that this center, which
will be housed in the Matting'ly House,
is an opportunity to integrate ethics
across the curriculum. She cites the
many pre-professional programs at
W&L as a reason for ethical discussion
across the board. »

Many of the academic departments
at W&L currently offer applied ethics
courses, but there is a discrepancy in
resources applied to different depart-
ments.

Ethics is a cornerstone of the jour-
nalism and mass communications de-
partment, according to for Knight Pro-
fessor of Ethics Edward Wasserman.
The department conducts an ethics in-
stitute in the fall and winter terms every
school year.

The science department, on the other
hand, has not offered an applied ethics
course in over a year and a half, accord-
ing to Professor Lisa Alty.

Izzy Brassﬁeld, a senior Biology
and Philosophy double major, says it is
important for people in medicine to be
trained in ethics with the changes hap-
pening in healthcare.

Brassﬁeld said this is her driving
motivation to continue her studies in
a Bioethics graduate program at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.

All Business Administration majors
are currently required to take a course
in either Business Law or Business Eth-
ics, but Professor Sandy Reiter says she
thinks that all majors should be required
to take both courses.

Reiter says she sees newspaper sto-
ries about people in business failing in
some ethical capacity every day. She
said people in Business should be bet-
ter trained to deal with these dilemmas.

Reiter said she hopes that the Mudd
Center for Ethics will provide a richer
environment at W&L focus on ethics to
raise awareness.

Some ideas for raising awareness
for ethics in the Mudd Center include
professional guest speakers across all
academic departments, discussion pro-

Roger Mudd ’50 is sparking ethical conversatis across cam-

‘Ax .

pus. He is an award winning broadcast journalist.

grams and even a ﬁrst-year seminar,
said Professor Smith.

She said it would be ideal for all
W&L students to take a course in ethics
before graduating.

Mudd cites some of the ethical di-

lemmas he has faced in his career as a’

reason to donate money for an ethics
center.

Mudd said the self-promotion that
occurs in television brings many of the
ethical dilemmas in society to light. He
said the emphasis on being the ﬁrst to
report a story often made accuracy take
a back seat.

Mudd said that honor system is one
reason for W&L students to be inter-
ested in studying ethics. He said the
system made life as a student more
worthwhile.

But even the honor system raises
ethical questions.

Mudd was the senior representative

on the Executive Committee when he
attended W&L and remembers a major
ethical dilemma when it came to en-
forcing the system.

He remembers a case where a stu-
dent was reported to the Executive
Committee in an almost helpless situ-
ation. The student was found guilty of
an honor violation in a ﬁve to four vote.

“That case always bothered me,”
said Mudd.

Smith said the challenge in getting
the Mudd Center off the ground is to get
both students and faculty interested in
ethics. She said her next step in the pro-
cess is to brainstorm with faculty and
students on ways to bring the center to
life.

Mudd says he hopes the center will
help students see that an ethical life is
indeed a rich life worth living.

“It frees you from all the little wor-
ries,” said Mudd.

..

Senior Wayde Marsh competes in the 100 meter backstroke at the NCAA Division III Swimming
and Diving Championships. He tied for 27th overall with a time of 51.19.
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

 

 

 

W&L reps
named

The student bodyelected
EC and SJC oﬁicersoon
Sakai this weekend

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

The student body elected a new Executive
Committee President, Vice President, and Sec-
retary as well as the Student Judicial Council
Chairman and the unopposed secretary posi-
tion.

The winners are as follows: EC President
- Nathan Kelly (72 percent of the vote), EC
Vice President - Daniel Raubolt (59 percent),
EC Secretary — Anna Russell Thornton (62
percent), SJ C Chairman — David Robinson (64
percent) and SC] Secretary ~ David Thomas
(100 percent).

Nathan Kelly, former representative and
secretary on the EC, started upperclassmen
brunches, created an EC twitter, worked with
ITS to improve wireless lntemet on Macs and
worked with mental health groups to address
concerns on campus.

Kelly said his experience on the Executive
Committee makes him qualiﬁed for the job as
president because he has been involved in nu-
merous honor hearings. He said that he knows
what goes into the planning and administration
of these hearings and that “it is important to
understand the procedure front and back and
to understand the context in which you are
working.”

During the candidate’s speeches to the stu-
dent body on Thursday, Kelly discussed his
plans for the EC if he was elected president.
He said he would like to see more class-specif-
ic activities, such as barbeques up at the ruins.

Currently, many Greek students do not
have weekend dining options. Kelly said he
would like to expand upperclassmen brunches
to improve this situation.

An additional plan for the following year is
to “expand our tailgating in order to increase
attendance at athletic events throughout the
year.”

Newly elected EC Vice President Daniel
Raubolt has “spent the last year working with
the EC to uphold the Honor system.”

Raubolt said he stresses the idea of honor
within the EC and throughout the campus as a
whole. He said that as a member of the Execu-
tive Committee he has had the “opportunity
to see the Honor System in action, and truly
understand its impact on our community of
trust.”

Raubolt said he would like to “help to en-
sure that students have more signiﬁcant sway
on the direction of our university and the deci-
sions of the administration.”

Newly elected EC Secretary Anna Russell
Thornton said she wants to build on this year’s
progress. She said she has worked on “compil-
ing a history of the Honor System” and “ex-
ploring additional housing and dining options
on campus.”

Thornton said she plans to start an EC
Facebook where students can comment and
have discussion on Facebook about current
school issues.

The new Student Judicial Council Chair-
man will be David Robinson. During his time
on the SJ C, Robinson “developed an initiative
to revise and update and modify the policies
and procedures in order to make these more
cohesive and transparent to the student body.”
He did this working directly with the General
Council as well as the Dean’s and the Student
Affair’s oﬁice to get this going and to get the
ball rolling.

While as the chairman of the SJC, Robin-
son said he hopes to continue these efforts and
to continue to work with the members of the
different organizations in order to make the
SJC as transparent as possible,

David Thomas, the new SJ C secretary, ran
unopposed in the race and did not have a plat-
form. He said he will “look forward to serv-
ing as the SJ C Secretary this upcoming school
year.”

  

UNlVEF.SlTY
llrll-‘.Sllll‘lG'l'f;l\l & LEF. lllll

  

. X

tirénsin

 

 

LE}(ll~i{‘;TON, VA 24459

APR 0 ’l 2013

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

 

I

Did you hav say?

Constitutional Review Committee creates amendments to give students a bigger

voice.

By Krysta Huber
STAFF wmrea

After collecting more than 100 signatures
in support of a disputed amendment for the
Student Body Constitution, the Constitutional
Review Committee added an amendment to the
ballot one day before the Executive Committee
released the proposed Constitution to the stu-
dent body.

Members of the Constitutional Review

“This change allows for some institutional
memory as well,” Hildabrand said. “Since
none ofthe current members ofthe CRC was at
W&L for the last review, we have no idea what
happened, and no record of the past CRC’s
work remains.”

Toscano agreed with Hildabrand. He said
that enabling students to serve on the Consti-

“Since [the Executive Committee s] decision was moving in the

opposite direction from our original amendment, we decided to

collect signatures to bring our original amendment before the

student bodyfor a vote. ”

CLARK HILDABRAND ‘13, Constitutional Review Committee member

Committee circulated a petition in support of
the Constitutional Review Committee meeting
every three years to review the current docu-
ment. The current Constitution states that the
Committee will meet every four years.

The Committee originally proposed the
amendment to the Executive Committee with-
out the petition. But they decided to circulate
the petition after the Executive Committee re-
sponded with a proposal to review the Constitu-
tion every six years.

“Since [the Executive Committee’s] deci-
sion was moving in the opposite direction from
our original amendment, we decided to collect
signatures to bring our original amendment
before the student body for a vote,” said Con-
stitutional Review Committee Member Clark
Hildabrand ‘ 13.

Hildabrand and other Committee members
including Emily Zankman ‘I3 and Paqui To-
scano ‘ 16, collected 101 signatures within two
days. Hildabrand said that the Committee had a
small window to obtain the signatures because
the Executive Committee voted in favor of a
review every six years last Monday, one day
before the Constitution was scheduled to be re-
leased to the student body.

Hildabrand said that the Committee felt the
time period should be changed to three years
to guarantee that every student, including law
students, could contribute to the Constitution
in some way. Because law students are only
enrolled for three years, the current four-year
review plan prohibits them from serving on the
Constitutional Review Committee.

In addition, the six-year review plan pro-
posed by the Executive Committee would mean
that some Washington and Lee classes would
never be able to serve on the Committee.

tutional Review Committee more than once
would help the Committee make more effective
changes.

“[Retuming Committee members] would
have the knowledge to pick up where the last
CRC stopped so that the transition process
could be made as easy as possible and the wheel
would not have to be completely re-invented,”
Toscano said.

The Committee also favored a review every
three years because they felt it was logical to
have the Constitutional review coincide with
the review of the White Book, which also hap-
pens every three years. The Executive Com-
mittee agreed that it made sense to review
White Book procedures and the Constitution
in the same year, but felt that three years was
excessive.

Executive Committee President Steele Bur-
row said that because the review of White Book
procedures occurs every three years, the only
two options were to have the Constitution re-
viewed every three or every six years.

“Repetitive meetings suggest a mandate to
change something in the Constitution, regard-
less of whether or not it needs changing,” Bur-
row said. “Through the preexisting amendment
process, the Constitution allows for changes to
be made at any time without this Committee.”

Burrow added that, over the course of six
years, the student body will experience more
signiﬁcant changes.

“[Reviewing the Constitution every six
years] would result in a more substantial re-
view,” Burrow said.

Executive Committee First-Year Represen-
tative Anna Russell Thornton added that mak-
ing changes to the White Book and the Consti-
tution separately is a time consuming process.

She said that making changes to both in the
same year would be very difﬁcult.

“The idea of operating in multiples of three
makes sense to ensure that no Executive Com-
mittee will have to deal with the White Book
review and CRC meeting in the same year,”
Thornton said.

Hildabrand acknowledged that reviewing
both the White Book and the Constitution was
a demanding workload for the Executive Com-
mittee.

“We understand that serving on the Execu-
tive Committee takes a great deal of time, and
I greatly respect each EC member’s dedication
and diligence.”

To avoid this problem, Hildabrand said that
the petition calls for the Constitutional Review
Committee to meet the year alter the White
Book is reviewed.

“That way [the Committees] can build off of
each other without taking too much of the EC’s
time,” Hildabrand said.

Thornton also said that she did not think the
Constitutional Review Committee should wor-
ry about institutional memory.

“The excellent notes and records this Con-
stitutional Review Committee has kept this
year will serve as institutional memory them-
selves,” Thornton said. “And every three years
seems like too often for a document that should
not be so malleable.”

The remaining amendments to the Constitu-
tion range from grammatical changes to policy
changes. One of the amendments that the Ex-
ecutive Committee and Constitutional Review
Committee feel is an important isithe student
rights section. ’

“I think [the student rights section] is a nec-
essary addition to highlight a theme of the Con-
stitution: that the ultimate power in our student-
run government lies in the hands of the student
body,” Zankman said. M

Thornton said that the rights in the section
were preexisting but listed in other areas of the
Constitution.

“The rights listed in this section are not new,
but instead reﬂect those rights that students al-
ready have at W&L,” Thornton said. “Most
were detailed in other places in the Constitu-
tion and/or White Book and are now compiled
for clarity.”

Students have the opportunity to vote for the
revised Constitution through Sakai or at voting
booths in the Commons and the Law School.
In order for the Constitution to pass, at least
half of the student body — both undergraduate
and law students — must vote. Voting ends on
March 28.

W JobOpening      A  
Undergraduate Admissions Counselor .  

The Washington and Lee Ofﬁce of Undergraduate Admissions’   
announces an opening for Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities '   
includemanaging a recruitment territory and travel schedule,’ I I
conducting group information sessions and interviews, and eva|:uatin'g _
admission applications. Other duties will be assigned based on the.’.i'» .  E
selected candidate's background and skills. Evening and weekend:  I
work is expected during the academic year, especially during peak  I 
application reading and travel seasons. W    '

A Bachelor's degree, a valid driver's license, and the wi|l..ing’nessAto.— _ .
commit to the position for a minimum of two years are requ‘ir_e'd; Strong  .-
communication and writing skills and demonstrated orjganization,a_;,l_i.: [ Q I
abilities are expected. The successful candidate will be both willing‘ and.. 7
able to work as part of a successful admissions team, yetiwill be ‘capable
of creative self-direction. Preference will be given to W&L graduates. .   

Interested candidates should apply for the position;th_rpugh. W&Lls- 
Human Resourcesiwebsite (http://go.wlu.edu/jobs) no later than noon ]

on March 27, 2013. A W&L Employment App|ication,a coverfletiteir,  ;
résumé, and the names and contact information of three references are

required. EOE.-

8
A I

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

Trial of Guatemala
President Tuesday

The trial of General Efrain Rios Montt began on Tuesday.
The former President of Guatemala is being charged with geno-
cide for “tuming a blind eye” to the killing of 1800 native peo-
ple in the 1980s during the Guatemalan Civil,War. Tactics such
as rape, torture, and arson were all used against the Mayan Ixil
people. Although there is no evidence of a written order from
Rios Montt inspiring this slaughter, prosecutors hope that his
inaction will be enough for a sentence.

Religious tensions
cause Myanmar riots

Riots in Myanmar continue as tensions between Muslims
and Buddhists grow. At least ﬁve people are conﬁrmed dead
after a street riot on Wednesday involving around 200 people
in Meiktila. Three mosques were also destroyed. In response
to the situation, police set a curfew through the night in order to
control the town. This is the latest development in riots across
the country that have left 180 dead since June 2012.

Cyprus close to bailout
solution

Officials in Cyprus said on Friday that they may be close to
ﬁnding a solution to their bailout crisis. After Parliament ended
on Thursday with a request to have more time, debates over
how to handle the situation are ﬁnally coming to some common
ground. The leader of the Democratic Rally in Cyprus told re-
porters that an agreed-upon platfonn could be reached in a few
hours. This platform would fall within guidelines set by the EU.

Australian government
apologizes

A year after the original recommendation by a Senate Com-
mittee, the Australian government issued a national apology on
Thursday. Prime Minister Julia Gillard gave the historic apol-
ogy in front of Parliament to all of the unwed mothers forced to
give up their children for adoption from World War II until the
early ‘70s. Gillard allotted $5 million for services for affected
families, which will include eﬂ°orts to reunite separate families.

Bedouin tribe men
threaten tourists

Two tourists, an Israeli man and a Norwegian woman, driv-
ing towards a beach resort in Egypt on Friday had their car in-
tercepted. Six men from the Bedouin tribe in the area forced
them into their truck at gunpoint. These kidnappings, however,
do not appear to be part of a political tactic. Bedouin contacts
said they wanted to trade the hostages for imprisoned relatives.
Kidnappings such as this have recently been a common issue in
the Sinai Peninsula. 1

Prime Minister of
Lebanon resigns

Lebanon’s Prime Minister, Najib Mikati, resigned on Friday
after two years in oﬁice. His resignation follows a deadlock in
his cabinet over parliamentary election preparations. Mikati an-
nounced publicly that he hoped his decision to step down would
bring various political groups together as a uniﬁed government
that can lead Lebanon through their current state of uncertainty.

War suspect to appear
before International
Criminal Court

Bosco Ntaganda, a war crimes suspect, will make an appear-
ance before the International Criminal Court on Tuesday, March
26. They set the date after he turned himself into the American
Embassy in Rwanda. He is wanted by the ICC for seven charg-
es of war crimes and three charges of crimes against humanity.
These include rape, murder, and the use of child soldiers in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. Ntaganda is the ﬁrst sus-
pect to hand himself over to the Court.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

Student Body Constitution

The new Constitution as proposed by W&L’s Consitutional Review Committee. Don't forget to vote
’ on the changes in Commons by March 28th. I

PREAMBLE
This Constitution is the expression
of a self-governing Student Body and

‘is the foundation of its government by
providing the overarching framework

for its maintenance. Every student body
member shall adhere to these provisions and
applicable University policies.

It is the intent of the framers of this
Constitution to present an instrument devoid
of complexity, which shall represent a means
of settlement of all affairs that concern the
Student Body or any part thereof, and shall
be interpreted and administered by the
Executive Committee of the Student Body
to the advancement of the best interests of
Washington and Lee University students.

I. MEMBERSHIP

All regularly matriculated students
at Washington and Lee University, as
determined by the Registrar, shall be
members of the Student Body.

II. STUDENT RIGHTS

A. All members of the Student Body,
as deﬁned in Article I, shall be guaranteed
these explicit student rights:

1. The right to due process pursuant
to the guidelines and rules set forth by the
University, this Constitution, and the White
Book, if accused of misconduct that falls
under the jurisdiction of the Student-Faculty
Hearing Board, Student Judicial Council, or
Executive Committee.

2. The right to at least one honor
advocate if accused of misconduct that falls
under thejurisdiction of the Student-Faculty
Hearing Board, Student Judicial Council, or
Executive Committee.

3. The right to appeal any legislative
action of the Executive Committee or any
guilty verdict from an Executive Committee
honor hearing to the Student ‘Body and
to appeal a Student Judicial Council or
Student-Faculty Hearing Board decision to
the University Board ofAppeals.

4. The right to vote in Student Body
elections and all matters voted on by the
Student Body, even if studying abroad.

5. The right to appear before student
governing bodies with any matter of interest
or concern.

III. STRUCTURE OF
GOVERNANCE

A. Student Body government
includes both the Legislative Branch,
comprised of the Executive Committee,
and the Judicial Branch, containing the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board,the Student
Judicial Council, the Executive Committee,
the University Board of Appeals, and other
conduct review bodies established by the
Executive Committee or the University.

B. The officers of the Student Body
shall be a President, a Vice~President, and
a Secretary to be chosen by and from the
members of the Student Body.

IV. DUTIES OF OFFICERS

A. The President

1. Shall preside at all meetings of
the Student Body and of the Executive
Committee;

2. Shall call a meeting of the Student
Body or Executive Committee when
necessary, or upon request of two-thirds
of the Executive Committee then in office,
or upon petition in writing signed by one
hundred members of the Student Body;

3. Shall appoint all special
committees and oversee their progress,
subject to the approval of a majority of the
members of the Executive Committee;

4. Shall report directly to the Board
of Trustees regarding the state of the Honor
System and other issues concerning the
Student Body;

5. Shall have the power, subject to
the approval of two-thirds of the members
of the Executive Committee, to do anything
necessary to promote the interests of the
Student Body; and

6. Shall perform all additional duties
prescribed by The Honor System White
Book.

B. The Vice-President

1. Shall fulfill the duties of the
President in the absence of the latter, or in
case of illness, death, or withdrawal from
the University;

2. Shall manage disbursement of the
Student Body funds;

3. Shall oversee the-» official
recognition of student organizations, subject
to the approval of a majority of the members
of the Executive Committee;

4. Shall monitor the expenditures and
acts of officially recognized organizations;
and

5. Shall perform all additional duties
prescribed by The Honor System White
Book.

C. The Secretary

1. Shall keep an accurate record
of the proceedings of the meetings of the
Student Body and Executive Committee,
to include general reasons for entering into
Executive Session, and shall publicly post
these minutes upon completion of the next
business meeting.

2. Shall communicate with the
Student Body ofﬁcers to create a tentative
agenda for Executive Committee meetings,
and shall publicly post this agenda at least
24 hours before each meeting.

3. Shall take charge of all available
records, documents, and other papers of the
Student Body;

4. Shall take charge of all clerical
duties to be performed for the Student Body
or the Executive Committee;

5. Shall post, at a minimum on the
EC website, any notices called for by the
Constitution as well as any other that the
Executive Committee may advise; and

6. Shall perform all additional duties
prescribed by The Honor System White
Book.

D. Succession of Officers

1. In the event that the President of
the Student Body leaves during the year,
the Vice-President shall take his place and
the Secretary shall move to ﬁll the Vice-
President’s spot. The Executive Committee
will vote on one member of the Committee
to become the Secretary. Two-thirds of all
members of the Executive Committee must
approve this appointment.

2. The order of succession speciﬁed
above shall apply for the position of Vice-
President and Secretary of the Student Body.

3. In order to ﬁll the vacated spot on
the Executive Committee, a class election
will be held for that member’s class that has
been voted on to move to an officer spot.

V. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

A. The name ofthis committee shall
be: “THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE STUDENTBODYOF WASHINGTON
AND'LEE UNIVERSITY.”

B. The Committee shall be composed
ofthe following members:

- President of the Student Body

- Vice-President of the Student
Body

- Secretary of the Student Body

- One Representative from the 3rd
Year Law Class

- One Representative from the 2nd
Year Law Class

- One Representative from the lst
Year Law Class

- Two Representatives from the
undergraduate Senior Class

- Two Representatives from the
undergraduate Junior Class

- Two Representatives from the
undergraduate Sophomore‘ Class

- One Representative from the
undergraduate First-Year Class

C. Any members of the Student Body
may seek these offices through student
elections, except those studying abroad
during any academic term coinciding
with the tenure of the position offered for
election. Students of the Legal Law Master
(LLM) Program may seek office through
the 1st Year Law Class.

D. Seven membersof the Committee
who possess votes shall constitute quorum
for non-honor matters. Ten voting members
shall constitute a quorum for all honor
matters. '

E. The President shall try to preside
in accordance with Roberts Rules of Order
unless the Committee votes by two-thirds
majority to observe another procedure.

VI. THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

A. The Executive Committee shall
have primary legislative power in all matters
pertaining to the Student Body. It shall act
as the representative of the Student Body in
any situation in which such representation
is needed.

B. It shall establish a Voting
Regulations Board to superintend Student
Body elections according to Article IX,
Section E.

C. It shall pass upon all resignations
and may require the resignation of any
unsatisfactory officer upon two-thirds vote
of members of the Executive Committee.

D. It shall have the power to fill
vacancies occurring on the Executive
Committee, Student Judicial Council, and
all other Executive Committee appointed
positions.

E. It shall remove any of its members
for continual non-attendance, as deﬁned by
three unexcused absences from meetings per

term in ofﬁce, and see to the installation of '

a successor as provided for in Article IV,
Section D.

F. The President shall temporarily
appoint members of the Student Body to
help meet any quorum requirements.

G. It shall take charge of the
installation of new Executive Committee
oﬂicers and members.

H. It shall allow any student who
desires to appear before it in person, to
present for consideration any question of
interest or concern.

1. While in office, the President shall
appoint standing and special committees and
their Chairmen, subject to the approval of a
majority of the members of the Executive
Committee. To these committees shall
be entrusted during the coming year the
formulation and enforcement of regulations
in accord with the nature of the Committee.
Such committees and regulations are subject
to the control and approval of a majority of
the members of the Executive Committee.

J. By direction of the Board of
Trustees of Washington and Lee University
it shall be the duty of the Executive
Committee to appoint each year the
student members to all appropriate Faculty
Committees, at the time designated by the

Board of Trustees.

K. An Executive Session is deﬁned as
a session of the Executive Committee that
is closed to the public. Individuals who are
not presently serving on the Committee can
be present only at the express invitation of
the Committee.

L. The Executive Committee may,
on a vote of two-thirds of a present quorum
or the discretion of the president, decide to
enter into Executive Session.

M. The Executive Committee shall
establish guidelines for recognizing student
organizations. The current policy shall
be on the Executive Committee website.
Amendments to these guidelines may be
adopted by a two-thirds vote of the quorum
present in two consecutive votes, provided
that such votes are at least one week apart
and at least 72 hours of notice has been
given to the Student Body prior to the
initial vote.

N. The Executive Committee shall
establish guidelines for funding student

organizations. The current budget policy

shall be on the Executive Committee
website. Amendments to these guidelines
may be adopted by a two-thirds vote of the
quorum present in two consecutive votes,
provided that such votes are at least one
week apart and at least 72 hours of notice
has been given to the Student Body prior to
the initial vote.

0. The Executive Committee shall
amend the student activity fee as set forth
in Article XII.

VII. THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

A. Jurisdiction

1. The Executive Committee shall
have jurisdiction in every Honor System
case, as provided for by the Board of
Trustees. Each case shall be conducted
in accordance with the Honor System
procedure as stated in The Honor'System
White Book.

2. The Executive Committee shall
see that the Honor System is carefully and
thoroughly explained to the entire Student
Body and faculty. It shall provide all
students and faculty members with access
to the Constitution and Honor System
White Book.

3. The Executive Committee may
delegate some of itsjudicial power to other
judicial bodies if necessary, in which case
these bodies may have jurisdiction over
a speciﬁc non-honor related type of case,
as stipulated by the Executive Committee.

4. The Student-Faculty Hearing
Board shall have jurisdiction over all
misconduct cases involving hazing,
discrimination, harassment, or sexual
misconduct. The Executive Committee may
adjudicate cases that involve an alleged
honor violation‘.

5. The Student Judicial Council
shall havejurisdiction over all misconduct
cases that are not under the jurisdiction of
the Executive Committee or the Student-
Faculty Hearing Board. The Student Judicial
Council may refer cases to the Executive
Committee. The Executive Committee may
adjudicate cases that involve an alleged
honor violation.

6. The University Board‘ of Appeals
shall have jurisdiction over all appealed
cases that are not honor—related.

B. Composition I

l. The Executive Committee
members shall be elected according to the
procedures in Article IX.

2. The Student Handbook outlines the
composition of the Student-Faculty Hearing
Board, the Student Judicial Council, and the
University Board of Appeals.

C. Procedures

1. The judicial procedures of the
Executive Committee are outlined in the
White Book.

2. The procedures of the Student
Judicial Council, Student-Faculty Hearing
Board, and University Board of Appeals are
outlined in the Student Handbook.

D. Appeals

1. All cases under the jurisdiction
of the Student-Faculty Hearing Board and
Student Judicial Council may be appealed
to the University Board of Appeals.

2. All guilty verdicts from'Executive
Committee honor hearings may be appealed
to an open student body hearing, as
stipulated by the White Book.

VIII. OTHER STUDENT OFFICES

A. With the exception of the Law
School representatives to the Executive
Committee, who shall be elected in
accordance with this Constitution, other
elective offices in the Law School shall be
deﬁned by the Constitution of the Student
Bar Association. ‘

IX. ELECTIONS

A. Student Body Officers

l. A petition with the signatures
of one hundred and ﬁfty students shall be
required from every candidate for President,
Vice-President and Secretary of the Student
Body and for Chairman and Secretary of
the Student Judicial Council. The election
dates and the date the petitions are due shall
be scheduled by The Executive Committee.
The election will be carried out by the
Voting Regulations Board.

2. The Executive Committee may
call a voluntary assembly of the Student

Body after the petitions are ﬁled and in no
event less than two days before the election.
The purpose of the assembly shall be to
provide the candidates for the position of
President, Vice-President, and Secretary
of the Student Body and for the position
of Chairman and Secretary of the Student
Judicial Council an opportunity to brieﬂy
relate their views and to provide the Student
Body a sound basis for casting their ballot.
The President of the Student Body shall
preside as speaker of the assembly.

B. Class Representative Positions

1. A petition with the signatures of
ﬁfty students from the student’s respective
class shall be required from every candidate
for Executive Committee and Student
Judicial Council. The election dates and the
date the petitions are due shall be scheduled
by the Executive Committee. The election
will be carried out by the Voting Regulations
Board.

2. The election for First-Year
Executive Committee Representative and
the election for the 1st Year Law Executive
Committee Representative shall be held by
the sixth Monday that the respective school
is in session.

C. Other elections—The Executive
Committee shall provide for other elections
as necessary.

D. General Provisions for this Article

I. Due notice of all elections shall
be given, as provided in Article IV, Section
C, 5.

2. All officers and Executive
Committee members elected in the Winter
shall enter upon their duties the last day of
undergraduate Winter Term examinations.
All Executive Committee members elected
in the Fall shall enter upon their duties upon
installation.

E. Voting Regulations Board

I. The Voting Regulations Board
shall be the sole administrator and arbitrator
of Student Body elections and shall adhere
to the election time(s) designated by the
Executive Committee.

2. The Voting Regulations Board
shall be comprised of one or more members
ofthe Student Body, who shall
administer Student Body elections.

3. The elections may be conducted
electronically or manually.

4. The Voting Regulations Board
may call on the advice and support of (a)
faculty and/or staff member(s) in creating,
administering, and regulating the polls.

5. The Voting Regulations Board
shall:

A. Inform the Student Body of open
elective positions in a timely manner;

B. Answer any questions of
candidates regarding the elections;

C. Review and publish the rules,
regulations, and procedures governing
campaigns and elections. If necessary, it
may make amendments to the regulations
in consultation with the Student Body

5 President;

D. Administer the elections by secret
ballot with one vote per student;

E. Ensure that the elections are
fairly administered and that the results are
accurate;

F. Count_all ballots and decide if
ballots set aside for review, due to an
ambiguous marking or controversy, shall
be counted;

G. Publish the results to the Student
Body the day after each election;

H. Provide each candidate with

the results, including percentage of votes

awarded to each candidate, the day after
the election;

I. Administer runoff elections or
special elections as needed;

J. Sanction any candidate who is
in violation of anyiexpressly stipulated
campaign or election rule. These sanctions
may be appealed to the Executive
Committee.

K. Review results of vote individually
with a candidate who appeals the results
to the Voting Regulations Board or the
Executive Committee.

X. INSTALLATION

All student government officers
and representatives shall be given the oath
of office by the outgoing leader of their
respective organization within one week
after election. Officers and representatives
added throughout the year shall be given
the oath of office by the current leader of
their respective body. The following oath
shall be taken:

“I (giving full name) realize the
high trust and conﬁdence placed in me by
the Student Body of Washington and Lee
University, and being fully aware of the
remorse of conscience that would attend my
failure to perform my duties, do solemnly
swear to support the Student Body, to
uphold the Student Body Constitution, and
to perform the duties of office to the best
of my ability.”

XI. STUDENT BODY MEETINGS,
POWER, ETC.

A. A meeting of the Student Body
shall be called by the President when
necessary, or upon request of two-thirds
of the Executive Committee then in ofﬁce,
or upon petition in writing signed by one
hundred members of the Student Body.

B. One-half the membership of the

Student Body shall constitute a quorum.

C. A two-thirds vote of a quorum
by the Student Body, at a meeting which
has been duly advertised for three days, as
provided for in Article IV, Section C, 5, may
require the resignation of any unsatisfactory
officer named or appointed under this
Constitution.

D. A two-thirds vote of a quorum
by the Student Body, at a meeting which
has been duly advertised for three days,
as provided for in Article IV, Section C, 5,
may rescind any non-honor matter of the
Executive Committee.

XII. STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE

A. With the approval of the Board of
Trustees, an activity fee, which shall be set
by the Executive Committee by a two-thirds
vote of those present, shall be payable at
the time of registration and will cover the
current school year. I

' . B. If the Executive Committee
proposes to change the Student Activity
Fee, it shall notify the Student Body ofthe
proposal and providejustiﬁcation at least 72
hours prior to voting on ‘the change.

C. Central Student Body Fund

1. Student Activities Fees, together
with all other money accrued to the Student
Body, shall go into the Central Student Body
Fund.

2. Each Activities Fee shall be
disbursed as determined by the Executive
Committee. Prior to September, the
Executive Committee shall prepare a budget
for the coming school year. All ofﬁcially
recognized student organizations shall be
entitled to request money from the Central
Student Body Fund.

3. The Committee shall pass’ the
budget allocations by a two-thirds vote
of the members. Following adoption of
the budget any change in allocations shall
require a two-thirds vote of the Executive
Committee.

4. Executive Committee Accounts:

a. The Executive Committee
Reserve account shall provide for all
general expenses of the Executive
Committee.

b. The Executive Committee
Honor Reserve account shall provide funds
in the case of a Student Body
Hearing.

c. The Student Body Working
Reserve account shall cover organizations
that spend more than allocated. This
account can also be used to allocate funds
throughout the year when organizations
request additional funding (i.e. Winter
Term).

5. The Committee will place money
into an interest bearing account on an annual
basis for Mock Convention. This will not
affect their ability to request additional
funding if needed.

6. At the end of the academic year
all residuals from organizations funded by
the Student Activities Fee shall revert to the
Central Student Body Fund.

D. The University Treasurer:

I. Shall assist the Executive
Committee in overseeing receipts,
disbursements, and transactions to student
organizations.

2. Shall keep separate book accounts
of each organization. ,

3. Shall provide the Vice-President
of the Executive Committee with ﬁnancial
account statements.

XIII. AMENDMENTS

A. Any amendments to the
Constitution shall be proposed:

1. By a two-thirds vote of the
Executive Committee; or

2. By being presented by a petition
signed by one hundred members of the
Student Body. ’ '

B. Any proposed amendment shall
be public information for at least one week
prior to being voted on, as provided in
Article IV, Section C, 5.

C. A proposed amendment shall be
voted on by secret ballot by the Student
Body, of which at least one week’s notice
has been given.

D. For adoption, a proposed
amendment must receive two-thirds of the
ballots cast; provided, however, that at least
one-half of the Student Body casts ballots.
Balloting on the proposed amendment may
extend no longer than three consecutive
days.

E. This Constitution is to be reviewed
every three/four/six years, starting in the
2012-2013 academic year, and continuing in
the -----, etc. academic years. A committee,
consisting of eight members and one
chair, will be appointed by the Executive
Committee. This Constitution Review
Committee shall gather information and
promote awareness of the Constitution
through discussions with the Student
Body and propose amendments to the
Constitution, as provided in this Article.

F. The Constitution Review
Committee shall maintain a detailed report
of its recommendations, proposals, and
justiﬁcations for such as a resource for the
next review committee. These records shall
be kept and maintained by the Executive
Committee.

 

  

  

 

4 I

THE RING-TUM PHI °

1

From left to right: Blake Huddleston, John Houser, Margaret Leer, Kristi Gennette, Christina
Lowry, Kate Ballou, Drew Teitelbaum

By Douglas McNie|
5 TA F F W R I T E R

Washington and Lee’s Mock Trial
team competed at the national level
in the ORCS competition at Furman
University. -

Although they did not place in this
competition, Mock Trial president,
senior Abbie Caudill said “While
neither team placed high enough
to make it out, everyone had a re-
ally great weekend and we competed
well. I am extremely proud of both
teams for working as hard as they did
this year”.

Despite their recent loss, the Mock
Trail team has had a very impressive
year. At the WONK competition held
earlier this year, senior Nate Reising-
er won an attorney award and sopho-
more Elizabeth Elium won a witness
award.

The entire “A” team took home
ﬁfth place at the competition, which
was hosted by American University
in Washington D.C. Also earlier this

_ year, the “B” team was awarded ﬁrst
place overall at the Coastal Carolina
invitational in Myrtle Beach, S.C.
andjunior Julia Wingﬁeld won an at-
torney award. The “A” Team won 3rd

place at the Spider Invitational at the
University of Richmond, and sopho-
more Jackie Yarbro won an attorney
award. ,

More recently, at the regionals
tournament hosted by UNC Chapel
Hill in early March, the “A” team
won 5th place overall, earning them
a spot in nationals. At regionals, the
“B” team was awarded 9th place and
juniors Christina Lowry and Kate
Ballou both won attorney awards. Al-
though both teams failed to place at
nationals, junior Christina Lowry and
freshman Margaret Leer won witness
awards.

Mock Trial is a combination of
law and acting. President Abbie
Caudill said that practices consist of
“witnesses learning their afﬁdavits
and their roles and attorneys practic-
ing objections, crossing witnesses,
speeches, and directing their wit-
nesses”.

Due to high participant interest,
the Mock Trial program is divided
into two separate teams, the “A”
team which consists of the more
experienced members, and the “B”

Repertory Dance Concert gives
audience a diverse experience

By Andrea Owen
STAFF warren

Washington and Lee’s
Repertory Dance Company
concert was unique in its va-
riety, said Jennifer Davies,
an assistant professor of
dance and the artistic direc-
tor ofthe show.

“There’s a lot of diver-
sity," she said.

The show opened with
a I2-minute piece called
“Foreground,” created by a
guest artist, Lauren Edson,
who came in the fall.

“it was a big deal that we
were able to get her here,”
said Davies. “We were re-
ally excited." The dance,
as Davies described it, was
"highly intense” and “difﬁ-
cult," showing the dancers’
virtuosity.

She said that because the

€IlC€.

their

Company is now in its sixth
year at W&L, it can bring in

gasps from
when they unwound head-
ﬁrst towards the stage.

But this dance was not
the only sho ‘
In “St
“sad and ten ‘
man and a V» "L
through a e7
relati
scribed by
couple danc
in their und :.

“lt‘s k
piece. but
said Ritter,
dance.

Davies sat
the dance  V
and was Clfiﬁaw (lib
artist, it was anew’ a
for the dancers. . ' ,

“I think it’s really be, ‘re
ful,” she said. 1 V .

She continued to describ

the audience

many more gll€Sl €lI’IlSlS.

Davies described the
quality ofthe performance.

“I think this concert, more
than any one we’ve ever
done before, has consistently
high-quality choreography,
as well as performance by
the students,” she said. “We
are able to challenge them
in a new way because their
abilities have just gotten
[progressively better]."

One of the most well-
received dances was “Alone
in a Crowd,” an aerial silk
dance performed by Dana
Fredericks ’ l2, Jennifer Rit-
ter ‘ I3 and Erin Sullivan ’ l3.
Dancers performed acrobatic
moves while suspended by
a special fabric, provoking

the variety of dance.

"There [are] some su- ,
per serious...high-intensity 
dances and then there’s some
silly stuff,” she said.

The piece following in-
termission, “Inspired by
Leo,” , played -...-witlw.«u:enaLm.g,,,,. .
illusion. ,_,The dancefwas‘. i
projectedﬂsideways onto a
screen adjacent to the dance
itselfand was inspired by the
choreographers’ trip to the
Edinburgh Festival Fringe
last summer.

During the performance,
ﬁrst-year Jenna l-‘aude com-
mented on the show.

“They really tricked you
into believing you were in a
whole other world," she said.

team which consists of the younger
members who do not have as much
experience.

At the beginning of each year ev-
ery team is given a potential trial sce-
nario. This year the W&L Mock Trial
Team scenario was a civil case about
a couple who went scuba diving with
a company. One of the people died
while on the trip and their spouse is
suing the company.

Each competition consists of

four rounds. A round is run much in
the same way as a real trial. Caudill
said, “The trials themselves consist
of pretrial, opening statements, three
plaintiff witnesses with directs and
crosses, three defense witnesses with
directs and crosses, and closing argu-
ments. .
Also impressive, the Mock Trial
team competes against and holds its
own against schools much larger than
W&L. The team competes against
schools like William and Mary, Vil-
lanova University, Florida State Uni-
versity and The University of North
Carolina.

 

MON DAY, MARCH 25, 2013

By Rachel Adams-Heard
STAFF WRITER

As an elite private school, Washington
and Lee University has a higher tuition than
its public school counterparts. Over the years
W&L has gained the reputation of being
among the most expensive in private higher
education. A standard cost of attendance of
$59,313 has earned W&L a spot in Business
Week’s “Most Expensive Colleges.”

Some ofthese costs come-from a student-
to-faculty ratio of9: 1 , which allows individu-
alized attention and a plethora of resources
that aid in the school’s strong standing in the
world of higher education.

But what does the $43, 750 tuition actu-
ally pay for? Are these fees fair?

A talk with Washington and Lee Treasurer
and Vice President of Financial Aid Steven
McAllister helped clear up a few questions
about just where tuition goes.

McAllister labeled the tuition revenue as
“unrestricted.” This means that there is no
speciﬁc program or goal that receives tuition
funds. Unrestricted funds are different from
restricted funds that are allocated toward one
particular department or goal. An example of
a restricted fund would be a large donation
by alumni, in which the donor may work with
the school to determine a purpose for the con-
tribution.

Expenses can be deﬁned by their purpose
(functional classiﬁcation) or by type of ex-
pense (natural classiﬁcation). For purposes
of showing where tuition funds are allocated,
the functional classiﬁcation is more practical.

The largest expense is Instruction, mak-
ing up 36.7 percent oftotal expenses. Second
is Student Aid, coming in at 22.6 percent,
which helps pay for students who are eligible
for ﬁnancial assistance. Institutional Support,
or General Administration, accounts for ll.l

 

Instruction

   

student A
Services
7%

  
    
  
 
  
  

I bottom represent research (2%) and public
service (0.5%).

Small school, big money

A look into how the university allocates tuition funds.

Sources of Income

Auxiliaries
1 1%

Tuition and Fees

g 54% 0

   

percent of expenses, Instructional Support for
9.4 percent, Student Services for 7.3 percent,
Research for 1.6 percent and Public Service
for 0.5 percent.

The remaining 10.7 percent of W&L’s ex-
penses is Auxiliary Enterprises, “which range
from Dining Services to Housing to Univer-
sity Store to Printing and Copying Services,”
said McAllister. Auxiliary Enterprises is the
only expense for which tuition revenue does
not help pay. These services rely on fund-
ing from room and board, as well as sales of
goods and services. v

In terms of paying for the experience of
a Washington and Lee student, tuition does
not cover the cost of one’s four years here. ‘
For this, W&L relies on its strong alumni
support. A large portion of philanthropic do-
nations goes toward athletics, co-curricular
activities, academic programs and various
student services. Without this additional sup-
port, W&L would not be able provide what
McAllister and many others call “an opportu-
nity for a high-quality liberal arts education.”

     
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   

 

37%

Spllll:|l0 ll0lll?)0||V

Note: The two unlableed wedges at the

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

opinions

  . Obsessed with perfection

Does our status as a school affect the drive in our social and asthetic lives as well? Leah thinks yes. ,

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

Our campus is obsessed with perfec-
tion. This ﬁxation is not like my weekly
need to watch “Grey’s Anatomy,” but
something much greater: a psychological
need that has consumed our minds and
thoughts. While my attempt at maintain-
ing a bird’s-eye view of our campus’ so-
ciocultural habits may be obscured, upon
my matriculation at Washington and Lee
University I quickly noticed that we are
perhaps the best of intra-social self-ma-
nipulation I have ever experienced.

Who said we weren’t perfect?

W&L is ranked as the l5th top col-
lege in the United States. This status
is well- deserved with acceptance and
graduation rates of 17 and 93 percent, re-
spectively, high numbers of happy grad-
uates, and a hugely successful alumni
network. W&L graduates are the cream
of the liberal arts crop.

I do not write this with the intention
of levying accusations or pointing ﬁn-
gers at anyone. However, when I picked
up the Phi this week and read the article
on the rise in thefts on campus and the
accompanying editorial I felt I could not
reasonably keep quiet on a topic that has
long troubled me as a Washington and
Lee student.

As a Bonner Scholar I have been
afforded the opportunity to become in-
volved in the local community. and in
the last three years I have met with some
of the most honest, hard-working indi-

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

Recently, the citizens of my home
state, South Carolina, went to the polls
to vote in special Republican and Demo-
cratic primaries to select the parties’
candidates for District l’s open seat.

Somewhere along the path students
remain on for four years a standard is
set. Arrival before O-Week is the great
equalizer; no ﬁrst-year has yet to estab-
lish their dominance in any one area,
whether social, academic, or elsewhere.
But with the passing ofEC elections, fall
term grade reports, and formal Greek
organization recruitment, the “best” be-
come known and the top spots in all hi-
erarchal categories are claimed. What is
perfect? — '

It is doubtful that remaining time
spent at W&L is a “Game of Thrones”-
like battle between peers to rule campus.
Students here excel in a multitude of
areas, but we seem to want to win at it
all. Interestingly enough, desire is not
the brainchild of a certain demographic,
clique, or student group, but the student
body as a whole.

totheeditor

viduals I have ever had the privilege to
know. In fact, I would argue that I have
learned more about honor and character
from the residents of Roekbridge Coun-
ty than from my fellow Washington and
Lee students—honor system or not.

I was therefore understandably dis-
turbed by what I view as extremely di-
visive and classist language directed to-
ward the citizens of Roekbridge County
in the most recent edition of the Phi. I
have spent my time at W&L trying to
break down barriers between students
and the community, a task that is made

Fooled me thrice

South Carolina is continued proof of political and moral insanity

For the readers who don’t remember,
that seat was left vacant when Governor
Nikki Haley (R) appointed its previous
occupant, Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) to
an empty Senate seat.

THE RING

WASHINGTON AND LEE U?\'l\*'l2RSIlY

-TUM PHI.

.-

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

R/NG—TUM PHI welcome's all

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully. and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE

to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA .I. KORASH-SCHIFF

RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
ATHENA CAO

LEAH GOSE

HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER
KYLE JAEGER

RANDY KARLSON
CHRISTIAN KENNEDY
YEJEAN KIM
DOUGLAS MCNIEL
ANDREA OWEN
YATES WILBURN

ANGELICA TILLANDER

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS
KANE THOMAS

letters. We reserve the right

 

An unspoken aspiration we share (am
I breaking our “Fight Club” rule?) is to
be the fashionable, ﬁt, straight-A (s/I)
ratstar. Of course, I am generalizing, but
what would perfection be without a ste-
reotyped example?

On a campus with just under 2,000
students, it is easy (and almost habitual)
to pass a classmate or friend and wonder
if he or she is doing better than you. The
Speaking Tradition is an excuse tojudge
passersby and not be accused of staring.
Our constant nearness to one another is
the equivalent of a real-life Facebook
status update ~ our appearance and de-
meanor say it all.

Being “better” isn’t better.

So much of what we strive to be in
our appearances or on paper is irrel-
evant. George Washington did not give
over $20,000 in bonds for us to all want

considerably harder by prejudicial lan-
guage essentially accusing residents of
Roekbridge County of being criminals.
I don‘t think that anyone intends for that
to be the message, but when articles are
written with lines like “what ifl was a
townie who wanted access to the gold-
mine of swag that is a college dorm,”
and “I even adopted a iniIdly-Rock-
bridge accent [when trying to infiltrate
the dorms]” the implication is that all
Roekbridge citizens must want to steal
from students.

There are criminals and dishonorable

The ﬁeld ofcandidates for the respec-
tive nominations was massive, boasting
a list of 18 names in total—l6 Republi-
cans and two Democrats. Among them
were some very famous people, includ-
ing Elizabeth Colbert-Busch (sister of
Stephen C olbeit) and Teddy Turner (son
of CNN and TBS founder Ted Turner).
In addition to these instantly recogniz-
able names were 16 other highly quali-
ﬁcd candidates, including my state house
representative Andy Patrick, who served
for over a decade in the Secret Service,
started his own security ﬁrm, and has
done my beloved town of Hilton Head
Island a great service during his tenure.
However, the ﬁeld was not without an
infamous name, with disgraced former
governor Mark Sanford eagerly throwing
his hat into the ring for the Republican
nomination. On March 19, a whopping
36.92% of South Carolina’s Republican
primary voters endorsed Mark Sanford
as their nominee, with Charleston City
Council member Curtis Bostic coming in
a distant second at 13.32%. While San-
ford hasn’t won a large enough plurality
to avoid a runoff, it is unlikely that Mr.
Bostic will be able to pull off an upset.

This outcome shows a consistent
problem that has plagued South Caro-
lina politics for countless generations.
Time and time again, South Carolinian
voters have united to demand the highest
standards of moral and political integrity
both through the electoral process and in
the court of public opinion. Oftentimes
politicians’ fear ofthis leads them to in-
vestigate their colleagues ofsuch actions
so as to avoid suspicion of questionable
activity themselves.

Yet, many of my fellow South Caro-
linians like to think it is moral integrity
and a willingness to defend their state’s
rights that they hold dear. Despite this
public facade painting the state as a
wholesome, freedom-loving place,
South Carolinians continue to support
candidates with proven records of ex-
treme moral shortcomings, speciﬁcally
marital inﬁdelity, often excusing it with
the selectively-applied Christian prin-
ciple of forgiveness. This trend ﬁies in
the face of South Carolinians’ proven
record of abhorrence of comparatively
(by some standards) minor—let’s say
“morally controversial”—activities
such as gambling, Sunday drinking, and
marijuana use. Furthermore, for all the
talk by the state’s leaders and citizens
about the “threat” homosexual marriage
poses to heterosexual marriage, the same
people seem all too willing to overlook
the damage that rampant inﬁdelity has
caused the institution.

to be the next W&L’s Kim Kardashian.
Robert E. Lee does not have a whole
museum beneath Lee Chapel because
his mission was to educate blood-thirsty,
competition—obsessed students. This
school was founded on the value of in-
tegrity — the absolute opposite of hypoc-
risy andjudgment. Integrity comes from
the Latin word integer, meaning “whole
and complete.”

In short, to show integrity is to be
honest and consistent in one’s values and
principles, to be “complete” in an entire-
ly personal way. To have integrity and
character is truly to be oneself. It would
be a dishonor to our founders to want
only to outdo fellow classmates. We
possibly strive to be so “perfect” because
we are held to such high standards of in-
tegrity and honesty, but honesty means
accepting your strengths and weaknesses

individuals in every community, includ-
ing our own campus; it is not something
unique to Roekbridge County. Addition-
ally, I am willing to stake my life on the
fact that the overwhelming majority of
Roekbridge citizens would never steal
from anyone let alone a W&L student.

I think there is a real need for people
to be conscious ofthe words they choose
when writing about such important top-
ics. One of my favorite authors, Tatnora
Pierce, wrote something that has always
stayed with me: “you need never unsay
anything that you did not say in the ﬁrst

Name recognition, not qualiﬁcation,
moral ineptitude, nor previous job per-
fonnance, wins the day.

The most recent example of the
phenomenon revolves around allega-

tions that the current Speaker of the SC.

House, Mark Sanford, misused state
funds and assets. Mr. Sanford underwent
similar investigations both before and
after his bizarre affair with an Argentin-
ian journalist was revealed. Regardless
of the politician’s popularity, despite
the minority of the offense, it is moral
failings that take South Carolina politi-
cians down. After all, it wasn’t until Mr.
Sanford’s inﬁdelity was exposed that
major calls were made for his impeach-
ment despite his two terms of question-
able spending activities and completely
impotent and inatticulate agenda for
the state. Further, it was not Governor
Haley’s lack ofexperience, refusal to use
state loans to save Hilton Head Island’s
Heritage golf tournament, or numerous
statements opposing special tax breaks
designed to attract business to the state
that were used against her during the
campaign. Instead, itlwas the allega-
tions of inﬁdelity deployed by compet-
ing candidates that were used to halt her
momentum.

Despite this highly charged electoral
environment that demands nothing less
than moral perfection from its politi-
cians, South Carolinian voters have time
and time again waived moral purity for
their better-known candidates. By my
own observation, it seems that name rec-
ognition, not experience, qualiﬁcation,
or ethnic background is the most impor-
tant factor in a candidate’s chances for
election, even when their moral integrity
has clearly been violated.

For example, Nikki Haley was dead
last in the polls during the six months
leading up to her gubernatorial election,
with her opponent holding a command-
ing lead of 10 points over the nearest
challenger (who was not Haley). Then,
a month before the primary vote, Sarah
Palin endorsed Haley, sending her throt-
tling into the lead with over 30%, and
then winning the Governor’s mansion.

Despite this extensive pop-psycho-
logical justiﬁcation, it is still difﬁcult
to understand why South Carolina Re-
publicans would select Mark Sanford
as their potential Congressman. Surely
Sanford has the name recognition, but
only because his downfall was incred-
ibly spectacular and bizarre. It’s crazy
to think that Republican primary vot-
ers—who as a general rule are more in-
formed simply because they care enough
to go out and vote in a primary—would

(and not berating those of others).

It would be considered irrational to
say we are “perfect,” but George and
Bob did not leave -us with even an in-
kling of what perfection might be. We
are making it all up. We are obsessed
with an idea, a self-developed shrine to
a standard that can never be met. All we
can ever be is who we are, upholding the
highest standards of integrity. Perfec-
tion is not real. So, instead of clawing
our way up a meaningless hierarchal
ladder, we should all take a look in the
mirror and decide ifit is time to be noth-
ing more and nothing less than the better
version of ourselves. It is our duty, after
all.

place.” I am calling on my fellow stu-
dents and the writers of the Phi to con-
sider their language next time instead
of accusing Roekbridge County at large
of being criminals. Perhaps adopt the
phrasing: "what ifl were a thief, what if
I were a dishonorable person."

I would also encourage my fellow
students to go out into the community
and get to know our neighbors; I promise
you won‘t regret it.

-Angelica Tillandcr

 

choose Mark Sanford with the hopes of
improving the prospects of the state or
the nation. Sanford is the quintessential
do-nothing status-quo politician inher-
ent to SC politics, and it is baffling that
the same voters who routinely demand
moral perfection of their representitives
continue to vote for people like Sanford
and Gingrich. This seems to ﬁt the text-
book deﬁnition ofinsanity: repeating the
exact same action, each time expecting a
different result.

In my opinion, any such voter would
have to go through the following men-
tal process in order to justiﬁably select
Mark Sanford: -

I. Look at the candidates

2. See 16 names

3. Realize you don’t recognize 14 of
the names

4. Find the one you do (Mark San-
ford)

5. Think to yourself, “Oh yeah! I
know him! Not for a particularly good
reason, but still! Recognition alone is a
great qualiﬁcation to serve in Congress!”

lt’s simply mind-boggling. Even if
you disregard his inﬁdelity—something
probably 80% of male politicians are
guilty of—he was still a do-nothing gov-
ernor who contributed nothing positive
of note, and continued the awful gutting
of the state’s education system. Further-
more, there is more than a strong indica-
tion that he used state funds and assets
for personal use.

Mark Sanford’s political career is not ‘
one of service or an attempt to improve
the state of South Carolina. Instead, it
is an exercise in political grandstanding,
one in which he serves as a conservative
rubber stamp or obstacle depending on
the situation. In Sanford’s entire po-
litical career he has failed to make one
original contribution of positive note by
any analysis, only able to claim that he
“stood for” this or “defended” that. Mark
Sanford’s political career is a theoretical
exercise in libertarian political dogma
that without the beneﬁt of the charisma,
actionable change, results, or even clear
objectives of improvement that charac-
terize the tenures of Gary Johnson and
Ron and Rand Paul. In short, Mark San-
ford is all talk.

Personally, I’ll be voting for Mrs.
Colbert-Busch, breaking ranks with the
party I identify with most to support a
candidate I feel is qualiﬁed (overly so
compared to the majority of potential
company she’ll have in the House), pri-
oritizes the issues I feel are important
(education, business tax breaks, veter-
ans’ care), and seems truly committed to
helping my state succeed.

 

6 3

THE RING-TUM PHI -

arts&|ife

MONDAY,

MARCH 25,2013

 

To-go (box) or not to-go (box)?

A closer examination at all the paper cups and cartons used in D-Hall

ByAthena Cao
STAFF warren

Forgot to bring your to-go box back
to D-Hall... again? Turns out you’re
not the only one. Students often use
the green, environmentally-friendly to-
go containers to grab food on the run.
The process is quick, easy, and efﬁcient.
But, as it turns out, there is often a cost
to this convenience.

Since D-Hall started using green to-
go boxes three years ago, about 2,000
paper cartons are saved every week, ac-
cording t'o Ordering and Receiving Co-
ordinator Mr. Tommie Roper. However,
these beneﬁts come with a price.

“It is saving us money, paper—wise...
even though the system is really not
working the way it’s supposed to—[the
green boxes] are supposed to be returned
often [but] they are not,” Roper said.

Green boxes get checked out about
100 to 125 times every day and most of
them are returned after students ﬁnish
their food, but some are not, according
to Manager Ms. Kelly Brown. Due to
students who do not return their green
boxes, Roper needs to put out about 50
more green boxes every two weeks..

In fact, some students don’t like us-

ing the to-go green containers, because
they have to remember to return them
afterwards. When asked if he uses the
to-go boxes, junior Jackson Buttery said,
“No, I always forget to bring one back.”

Unlike Buttery, juniors Nicole Gu-
nawansa and Haley Smith said they both
take the green boxes back after they use
them. But that’s not the only reason
students choose not to use green boxes.
The green to-go boxes are designed to
carry a whole meal, even though some-
times students may only want a snack.

“It’s a larger box—if I only want
something small, then maybe that’s the
only time l’ll grab a different type of
cup, for like cereal,” Gunawansa said.

According to Roper, D-Hall goes
through 1,000 plastic cups and 3,000 pa-
per cups a week. Not long ago, students
could get paper soup bowls at the cof-
fee and tea bar, but they are no longer
available, unless they are speciﬁcally
requested.

Brown said that students were sneak-
ing away with too much food in them.
“What happens is a lot of people come
in here and they eat in here»-ok, they

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

will sit down, they will eat, [and] then _
they will pack up a whole bunch of stuff
to go—that’s not the way it’s supposed
to work,” Brown said. “All you can eat
down here, now [with the soup bowls] is
all you can eat to carry out.”
According to Brown, a student only
gets a paper soup bowl now with the
purchase of a to-go meal, and only about 
ten students ask for them every day. 
But the absence of paper soup bowls
did not solve the problem, because stu-
dents are now using paper cups as food
containers. Without the 1,000 soup
bowls that students previously used in a
week, the quantity demanded for paper
cups has gone up, but paper cups cost
more than paper soup bowls because
they come with the hot cup sleeves.
“That does not make sense to me, be- ‘
cause the hot cups are more expensive,” ’
said Roger, after doing a cost compari-
son between the two alternatives.
While the solution to this dilemma is
not clear, students may help alleviate the
situation by remembering to return their .1 . *  x '
to-go boxes more often. . . \ — e ‘C _ .« g ,9”

No “rocks for jocks” here at

 

Thought geology was an easy major? Think again. Turns out there are tons of perks to becoming part of the crew

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

The “tight-knit, family” relationship
within Washington and Lee’s Geol-
ogy department has made it increasingly
popular to the student body. The ben-
eﬁts of being a geology major are both
tangible and emotional.

Not only are declared majors reward-
ed with an extensive package including
t-shirts, Nalgene bottles, hats, and ac-
cess to a fully-stocked fridge, but they
also have the chance to develop pow-
erful relationships that go beyond the
classroom.

“Faculty and students get to know
each other in a less formal way,” said

Associate Geology Professor Lisa Greer-

“I get to know [majors] as people, not
just as students.”

Much of this bonding comes from
the unique trip opportunities offered by

the department during spring term. Last '

year, geology students, along with Pro-
fessor Greer, studied in Belize. Students
would go out into the “ﬁeld,” or snorkel
in the coral reefs, and discuss recorded
observations together. Resembling an
actual family, students and faculty lived
together on these trips.

For junior Liz Olson, the Belize trip
was enough to ﬁnalize her decision to
become a geology major. “I was an En-
vironmental Studies major my ﬁrst two
years at W&L and after going to Belize
last spring term, I decided to make the
switch,” said Olson. ‘‘I realized that I
really liked the science aspect of the En-
vironmental Studies major and didn’t re-
ally know what geology really entailed
before that spring term class.”

This spring‘ term, students and pro- _

fessors are looking forward to visiting
Hawaii. Long hours in the ﬁeld and in

labs contribute to the closeness within
the department. The relationships be-
tween students and professors even
grow stronger through occasional Skype

‘ sessions.

“[Geology professors] give out
their cell phone numbers and tell us to
text them with questions, and I have
even seen majors Skype with a profes-
sor because it was late at night and the
questions could only be answered if the
professor could see the students’ com-
puter’ screen,” said sophomore Elizabeth
Elium. “We call all of the professors
by their ﬁrst names in the geology de-
partment. I’m not entirely sure why we
do that," but it does seem to keep things
more friendly and casual.”

The time students spend with each
other and with professors makes this
small but rising department more per-
sonal and family-like.

“We’re growing quite a bit right now
[and] it’s really exciting,” said Greer,
referring to the department’s size. “Ev-
ery major has groups of people who are
attracted to each other because they’re
interested in the same things, and I feel
that really strongly here [in the Geology
department].”

Geology students ﬁnd these friendly
dynamics between students almost, if
not as important, as the student-profes-
sor interactions. According to Olson,
“Everyone is always willing to help
each other out; if I have a question about
something, I can walk into the Geology
Computer Lab and undoubtedly ﬁnd
someone who will stop what they’re
working on and answer my question.”

Another chief advantage of majoring
in geology is the vast array of opportu-

"ting a liberal arts education at Colo-

nities available after graduation. W&L
graduates with geology degrees do not
have diﬂiculty securing spots in gradu-
ate school, and often ﬁnd themselves in
a growing ﬁeld of job opportunities.
Professor Greer found herself in
W&L’s Geology department aﬁer get-

rado College and receiving a PhD for
teaching at the University of Miami.
The closeness developed with students
within a smaller liberal arts environment
brought her to W&L.

“For me, I get to travel, I get to be
outside, and I get to do work in the ﬁeld,
and those are all priceless to me,” said
Greer about her position in the depart-
ment. “When I’m teaching, I feel like
I’m also getting something back when
students are talking in the class; I get to
have conversations with them and get to
know them.”

Other beneﬁts of being a part of this
department include weekly guest lec-
tures, an abundance of rocks around the
classrooms, and even a “wall of shame”
with pictures of geology students bond-
ing both inside and outside of the class-
room.

While the time spent together in labs
and research creates this strong relation-
ship within the department, students
bond even further outside of ‘the class-
room by helping each other understand
this distinct area of study.

“The classes are challenging, but to-
tally worth it!,” said Elium. “I’m sure
we’ve trespassed a time or two, but
nothing beats having a lecture on top of
a mountain, next to a beautiful river or
deep inside a cave.”

Last spring term,‘ geology students went out in the “field” to
examine the state of coral reefs in Belize. While exploring the
oceans, theiyrdrew samples for their studies.

After a morning of scuba diving, geology students return to the boat to examine their findings. These trips are just one of the many
department form strong relationships and close connections. This year, there will be a trip to Hawaii during spring term.

 

 

 

 

MON*DAY, MARCH 25,2013 ‘ ' 7 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

  
  

‘ V I
i_ As part of our ongoing effort and dedication to please all -
. of our students and guests, Washington and Lee Dining !iI
Services annually participates in a, national customer

satisfaction survey to gauge our results. NACUFS, the
National Association of College and University Food Services,
collects and analyzes the data and supplies the results to us.

A I —  " ‘ “  For participating in the survey, a drawing for seven prizes  ,
' V _ .3‘  ‘I .. A 9 V M.,. was held. The Grand Prize, a 36”Flat Screen TV, went to Ellen if _ _
' ' ‘s ‘ ' 1" ' ‘ ‘ ‘ Johnston 1L, Second Prize, a $100 Food Flex credit went to Q A , 

Kaela Fiutak'16. Additionally, ﬁve Third Place Prizes of $25

Food Flex credit went to Simone Baldus, U, Randi Wilson '13

Tara Bradsher 3L, John Hellmuth, ITS, and Virginia Garrett,
Dean of the College Ofﬁce, completing the list of winners.

From left to right: Joe Calicchio, Dean Evans, Paul Renzi andxDwight
Bitz,'during the drawing of the prize winners.

 

A big thank you to all of theW&L community for participating
in our survey and for being the best customers anyone could

 

Pictured second from left: Grand Prize winner Ellen Johnston 1L ’ Pictured Second from left! Second PIECE P|’IZe Wlnnel Kaela Flutak
welnt home with a new television_ "I 5 presents her award Of $100 FOOd Flex credit.

   

AUTDADJUSTSPI - ll mu... . '

  

- Valuable Fellowship Opportunity for Rising Seniors
and Juniors
Do you care deeply about honor and integrity?
Are you looking for a meaningful extracurricular
activity next year? ' ' I
Would you like to travel and represent Washington
‘ and Lee? 5

‘ TIME SENSITIVE: SEE "DEADLINE BELOW

Current sophomores and juniors are invited to
apply for the S. Cullum Owings, Jr. Fellowship for
the 2013-2014 year. Cullum was a very ﬁne person
from Atlanta, class of 2003, who died tragically in «
an automobile accident during his senior -year. The
Owings Fellowship, under the auspices of the W&L
Institute, for Honor and our Honor System, seeks to
promote academic integrity and a community of trust
in secondary schools. Two students chosen as Owings ,
Fellows will visit at least two schools next year to foster
conversations about academic integrity and honor
systems. Each Fellow will receive a tuition credit of
‘ $2,000 each term. .

We seek applicants of outstanding personal integrity
and solid classroom performance, who embrace
the W&L community of honor and trust and would
welcome the opportunityito speak publicly with
younger students about these values. E.C._ experience
is "relevant but not required.

Apply by email to Jennifer Mero jmero@wlu.edu,
not later than midnight on WEDNESDAY APRIL 3. i
The subject line’ of your email should say "Owings
Fellowship App.”On|y in Word or PDF. Please include: a

(1) An unofﬁcial copy of your transcript (order it now). p
(2) A summary of campus activities and any special
— talents ' A

. . . . . I I I  . 3A fl h "250 d ‘ii
Acclaimed creative ﬁction writer Danielle Evans performed a reading .(,,,§,5o',‘,§.“\;"§’.L‘,’es°.;°’,§ot. :,?pe,ie‘,2'fe' cfu‘;T,fy9‘;'o¥,°§'§

- ° - ° - represent W&L as an Owings Fellow.
from her work in Northen Auditorium in Leyburn Library on March (4) Youragreemenwmakeatleasuwo oﬁﬁmpus.
18. Winner of multiple awards, including the PEN American Robert W. _ visits next year. _ . I
(5) You WIII be on campus for the fall and winter terms.

Bingham Prize, the Paterson Prize for Fiction, and the Hurston-Wright (6) Two members of thfe faculty or administration as‘
. . , . . . . - , re erences. * ..
Award for Fiction, Evans has received critical praise for her short—story 4 I V I ~
~ . . w ‘ll h ﬁ I‘ r ° ' ,I‘kl
collection, ”Before You Suffocate Your Own Fool Self.” The event, which df,}’,‘§'g }fl§fi."2I'2‘f',§,';‘§‘§;‘§'.,‘i‘.'I'us'if':,§f,°,,$ﬁ°,§';

was well-attended by students, faculty and community members, was gfgnbgggfslgi-‘fig

" ' maiI.wIu.edu and Alex Mara os, maragosa13@mail.-
sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment to support the promotion of Wmedm or Selection commistitee Chair Beaug.DudIey,% V

the expression of art through pen and tongue.” Executive Director of Alugnni Affairs, wdudIey@wIu.»
I e u., . ~ .

 

 

   

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

arts&|ife

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

Marinus Ensemble moves

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

The Marinus Ensemble, an intema-
tional chamber music collective, per-
formed on March 20 at 8 p.m. The con-
cert was held in Wilson Hall’s Concert
Hall on the campus of Washington and
Lee.

Founded in 2010 by siblings Rachel
and Joseph Kuipers, the Marinus Ensem-
ble is united by a spirit of collaboration
and guided by a search for quality and
expression of the human spirit through
solo, chamber music, and conductor-less
orchestra performances of the past and
evolving musical heritage. Its members
are pianist Amy Yang, violinist Grace
Park, violist Rose Armbrust Grifﬁn, and
cellist Joseph Kuipers.

During the performance, the ensem-
ble played four pieces: Pohadka for Cel-
lo and Piano; Legende, opus 17; March-
enbilder (Fairy Tale Pictures) for Piano
and Viola, opus H3; and Piano Quartet
in E-ﬁat Major, opus 47.

Kuipers played solo first while Yang
accompanied him. He performed a rous-
ing rendition of Pohadka for Cello and
Piano, by Leos Janacek. Its ﬁrst two
movements, Andante and Adagio, are
full of short motifs and rhythmic ﬁgures
that alternate with lyricism to create dra-
ma and develop a musical current. An-
dante begins with a sweet and innocent
piano introduction. The cello tentatively
enters with repeated iterations of a pizzi—
cato phrase, modulating andintensifying
until it eventually enters into a beautiful
singing melody.

The second movement, Adagio, is co-
quettish and ﬂirty, beginning with pieces
played by both cello and piano. .How-
ever, it quickly transforms into a lyrical
duct, and continues to use the playful
rhythmic material as the basis for the
movement, even in the lusher moments.
Allegro, the third movement, begins and
ends with a folk-inspired cello solo. The
cello predominates throughout this, the
most lyrical movement.

In the group performance of Piano
Quartet in E-ﬂat Major, opus 7, by R.
Schumann, a bright and bouncy Allegro
quickly emerges, based on four exuber-
ant chords already heard in a slower form

 

in the introduction. It IS an exploration
of counterpoint, yet full of beautiful me-
lodic themes, starting with the cello and
passed between the instruments.

The Scherzo is nimble and dashes by
with urgency. Rather than the usual sin-
gular trio, Schumann uses two: one me-
lodic and one sustained. Between each
trio, the scherzo ﬁgure returns with the

 

cello and piano pairing off against the
violin and viola. The movement closes
with a whispering echo of the ﬁrst trio.
Andante Cantabile begins as if it is
already in motion, with the violin intro-
ducing the gorgeous cello melody. The
major and minor sevenths throughout
express this romantic longing for the un-
attainable that so influenced Schumann’s

Fancy Dress channels Gatsby

By Christian Kennedy
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Washington & Lee’s annual black tie
event was once again a big hit with stu-
dents. Apart from another good excuse
to dress up, Fancy Dress offered stu-
dents fantastic music and dancing until
I a.m.

The Gatsby-themed setup was simi-
lar to that of last year’s, with the smaller
gym set up with a DJ and the big gym
with the big band onstage. After walk-
ing up the red carpet past the “Gatsby”

projection on the building’s exterior,
students could enter the dimly lit dance
ﬂoor on the left with the DJ, or towards
the loud soulful tunes provided by the
big band Camivale.

The entire event was fully decorated
with ‘20s-themed adomments, matching
well with the attire worn by the fashion-
excelling student body. Said sophomore
Stephen Moore, “I gave Jay Gatsby
multiple hugs and congratulations for a

 

Twitter @berkysfood

geeée 'e at    

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am — 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 70 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
wvvw.leehi.com See our menu online

 Find us on Face book

great party, only to realize he was actu-
ally President Ruscio.”

Similar to previous years, the upper
level wine and beer garden was avail-
able to guests over 21. The Fancy Dress
Committee’s fundraising efforts sure
paid off with the great success of the
event

Said Fancy Dress Co-Chair junior
Emmanuel Nwakibu, “There is a com-
mon misconception that the Fancy Dress

Committee gets a huge budget, when
in reality we only get $8,000 from the
[Executive Committee] and get charged
to use the gym.
balance the budget, trying to keep the
event affordable for students, while
making up for what the EC doesn’t give
us.”

Nonetheless, he was pleased with
the results of the night. The FD Com-
mittee was very satisﬁed with the num-
ber of tickets and amount of memora-
bilia sold. Said Nwakibu, “When it’s
all said and done, I am very happy how
the event turned out and look forward to
keeping the tradition going next year.”

Additionally, more students stayed
and danced until the very end. Sopho-
more Patrick Wellbom commented: “I
wish the night never ended! I could
have danced for at least two or three
more hours.”

As per usual, students visited the
midnight breakfast in Evans Dining
Hall, which was also very well at-
tended. This year’s Fancy Dress most
deﬁnitely kept up with its legacy of past
successes. For many students, the only
disappointment of Fancy Dress might
have been waking up to a late March
snowstorm the next day.

It’s very difficult to_

writing. While the melody is simple, it
is sung with intense expression as it is
passed from instrument to instrument
and adorned in various ways. At the end
of the movement, the cello tunes down
to_sustain a low B pedal, while the vio-
lin, viola, and piano anticipate the mate-
rial of the ﬁnale.

Like the ﬁrst movement, the impetu-

audiences with musical mastery

    

ous Finale centers on counterpoint, with
the viola leading the way. The piano and
violin follow as if in a Bach fugue, but
Schumann quickly turns things into a
swinging and energetic dance. The work
intensiﬁes and develops the theme with
a lengthy coda based on fugal imitation

.before rushing to an exciting end.

 
 
 

   

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013

s po rts  

9 0 THE RING-TUM PHI '

Note: Hailey and Kyle's Cinderella predictions were written before the tournament began. Like mostly everyone’s bracket at this point, their teams are out.

j By Hailey.Hartlell A “ ‘
;_sTAFF WRITER T - >



You don’t want- to goto war.-.. WITH

 THE RAMSI! 'j.Don"’,t start no stuff,
Vwon’t beno stuff! s Okay so it really

doesn’t make anyjsense, but the'Virginia
Commonwealth University ,war chant
is really catchy, and‘ really. captures the

. VCU_, 'spri’t. .»I7in’a‘IsRichmond girland
VCU, Havoc,-.ands Shaka Smart are in— _
escapable. ‘ The, tearnhas brought some

well-‘deserved attention to the city and

 .« the school, "and._'a It_ean’1>that‘once was a
' .3 Cinderella shockerhas turned into a sol-
 id Top 25 tean_1.'that;?has'*.not only made

—i_tgto thetoiirnaineh.t1‘consistently, but is
. salsolcompeting ‘fo '
onship. " ‘

He‘ NCAA Champi- ,

theunderdo

.miliar_ with VCU and theiriHavoc’ style 

This team, and the A-l0 in general,

(sad to see the bulk of its power leave-
after the season) may be a mid-major, ’
but they are really‘ .representing and
showing the country that they are just as
good as the ACC, the Big Ten, or the Big
East. They have ﬁve representatives in
the Tournament who have gone 5-5 in’
theﬁrst round and they won ’t stop there.

‘VCU has a rough path to the Champi-

onship, but if they play and shoot well
and stay out of foul trouble they can
beat any team. I know that seems ob-
vious, but every loss VCU has had, has
a glaring issue inone or both of those
categories. ‘For those who aren’t fa-

’ lot of turnovers and score a lot of points

 t_ 

play, they basically pressure, ever‘yone,;j' .
everywhere, all the time. They cause a 

Theirllavoc style defense has teams on-
their toes, and thosewho‘arenftpreparecl'

to face it ﬁnd themselves five seconds M“

behind VCUI‘on almost every play. , A
I VCU also has the advantage of some

the day he leaves :‘—\/_(;3U.’for_.arna_ior team‘

-He is easily one of the top ﬁve coaches:

in m_en’s ibasketballfright now andlisre-J
ally responsible ‘for what this team has‘

become.'— Senior Darius The-us is also a

:huge ‘pattjof tlie’-5Rams’- morale. He is

one '0f:tW,,0'fS}eniors' thesteam, he was

1 ‘a member ofthe ljteam that went to
 the ,Final_ oixrfaiid hefadvocates the im-

the, entire. team to fans and .

 as the talent iandhthe‘ passion to

 make-‘la trunffor,-the ijchamplonship this
fantastic leaders. Shaka Smart is the ce- 5 ' ‘ “ i I
lebrity. in Richmond and deservedlyso. ,0:
I, as well as most Richmonders, dreads’ ‘—

man years to come. ‘ They
' the underdog role for

i c_ha‘ngi Now. is the

Buter will make it to the Sweet 16

Butler — the number 6 seed in the East
Region - is this year‘s team-to-watch
from a non-major conference. While
Butler can’t really be considered a Cin-
derella team after two appearances in the

V Finals, they still compete in the A-I0, a
- league that is not considered to be of

the same caliber as leagues like the Big

, East and Big Ten. Although the A-I0

has enjoyed one of its most competitive
years in history, the lack of consistent
challenges may have caused Butler to
receive only a 6 seed.

However, one must simply look to

 their regular season resume to see that
‘ Butler is a strong team that is capable of

. making a huge run in the tournament.

. to

nileujlured on

 , » aiiexiierl in

entation. Meet him and gellipns from local businizssés at the reception.
I /on by iii’ ‘Oriﬁce oi Diver3iTt\ I and

r net the Czirger D918]-D'plfJ£’il‘ll _- nter.

Butler has wins over two teams that
have. at one time. been number one in
the nation »- Gonzaga and Indiana. But-
let‘ also has quality wins against UNC
and St. Louis. The key to Butler‘s SLIC-
ccss this year will be a combination of
leadership and experience. In 2010 and
20ll Butler reached the final game as
huge underdogs, taking down giants like
Michigan State, Florida, and Wisconsin
along the way. Much of this was due
to the excellent coaching of Brad Ste-
vens, considered one of the best young
basketball minds in the NCAA. Butler
beat Indiana in overtime by two points.
and Gonzaga by just one. This team has
seen it all, and executed in crunch time,

which is often a big question mark for
bigger, well-known teams.

Butler‘s 3rd round game against Mar-
quette is favorable, as Butler beat Mar-
quettc 72-7| on November 19th. Mar-
quctte looked shaky in their second
round matchup against Davidson, in
which it took a last second comeback
to win the game against just a I4 seed.
If Butler can get past Marquette, they
face a true challenge in Miami, but it is
reasonable to expect Butler to make it
to the Sweet Sixteen. No sixth-seeded
team or lower has the potential to make
a run quite like Butler, besides perhaps
Villanova. who, like Butler, has some
strong wins on their resume. The fact

By Kyle Jaeger
STA F F w R I T E R
that Butler is in such a position despite
the quality of their league says a great
deal about the level of the men's basket-
ball organization. ‘
Proven success and a move to the new
"Big East” is a great blueprint" for the fu-
ture ofthis team. RotneiClarke, a senior
guard leading the team in scoring at 16.7
ppg. and Roosevelt Jones, a sophomore
forward. averaging I0 points and 6 rpg,
should carry Butler to the Sweet Sixteen.
Brad Stevens, the move to the Big East,
and the overall strength ofthe organiza-
tion should propel Butler into the upper
echelon ofcollege basketball.‘

Track Carnh/al is runners’ favorite I

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

This past weekend, Washington &
Lee held its annual Track and Field Car-
nival, replete with athletes from dozens
of different schools all over the country,
as well as a much praised Chick-Fil-A
truck.

According to Head Women’s Track
and Field Coach Nate Hoey, a mix of
about 26 Division I, II, and III schools
competed in the meet this year, totaling
to about 2,500 athletes, as well as some
“very strong post collegiate athletes.”

Previously the W&L Track and Field
Invitational, the event was transformed
into the Carnival when lights were
added to Wilson Stadium in 2008. “We
wanted to start a fun, unique meet,”
stated Coach Hoey. “We split the meet
over two days and have a Decathlon,
Heptathlon and a distance night under
the lights with music going and the
spectators really get into it. It’s an out-
standing atmosphere.”

Brandon Uhl, head coach of the
men’s track and ﬁeld team, corrobo-
rated, “It’s been a great event for us. We
get to get the cow bells out, and it’s a
home event, which is rare.” As for the
meet’s affect on athletes, he stated, “A
lot of national level performances come
out of this, especially for D3. A lot of
the athletes tonight and tomorrow will
put in the best times and jumps they’ve
ever had.”

Mark Gensburg, a ﬁrst year, was the
last W&L competitor to run on Friday
night, in the notoriously grueling 10K.
He stated about competing, “This was
my ﬁrst 10k and I really just trusted
that Coach Uhl knew that I was ready
to compete.” As for experiencing his
ﬁrst Carnival, Mark stated, “I loved the
Carnival. It offered a truly unique atmo-
sphere where,I could compare myself to
D1 athletes. The music was truly great
to ‘have. It allowed me to think of the
lyrics instead of the pain during some of
the race’s tougher points and anything

that allows me to do that is OK in my
book.”

On watching Mark run, ﬁrst year
and member of the Men’s Swim Team
Billy Fries stated, “It was really great
watching my friends compete. It was so
cold, and I know that if I were out there
running in that I would want people
screaming for me too.”

First year Levi Warring competed in
both the l500m run and the 4x8.00m in
the Carnival and stated, “I felt very ner-
vous about running in two events, espe-
cially since there was more pressure to
do well at our home meet. It was excit-
ing to compete against some excellent
runners from other Division III and DI
schools. Running under the lights is an
awesome experience, and it was great
to have friends cheering us on during
the races.”

I Junio ander Tallman was a m

I

Junior Annelise Madison, who com-
peted in the 800m and l500m run, came
in second in the l500m run, with a dif-
ference of only three seconds between
her time and ﬁrst. She stated about her
performance, “It’s really exciting that
my time is so competitive right now.
The DI competition really pushed me
to run a fast time. I knew that the race
would be very competitive because this
year the Carnival was bigger than ever
with over 20 teams and 2,000 athletes.
Coming off of a strong indoor ODAC
meet performance, I was excited to see
what I could do in a highly-competitive
ﬁeld.”_ She concluded, “Every year the
Carnival is my favorite track meet be-
cause it is such a high-energy, competi-
tive meet. This year the Carnival was
made even more special by the fact that
there were so many teams and athletes.”

41 ‘e

mber of the school-record set-

ting 4x1 squad. Courtesy of W&L Sports Information.

 

 

10 - THE RlNG-TUM PHI -

25, 2013

sports

 

  in the numbers
4

The total number of weight classes that Cornell's Kyle Dake

has won NCAA wrestling titles. He is the first person to win 4

four different NCAA titles in four different weight classes.

7

The total number of times in NCAA men’s basketball tourna-
ment history that a number 15 seed defeated the number 2
seed in the ﬁrst round after Friday. The seventh was when
the Florida Gulf Coast Eagles defeated the Georgetown Bull-

dogs 78-68.

The number of three-pointers in ‘a row that the
Wichita State Shockers hit in the second half to de-
feat the Gonzaga Bulldogs 76-70 on Saturday. Gon-

zaga was the first number one seed eliminated from

this year's NCAA men’s basketball tournament.

 soapbox

“I made a big mistake today and we should
have stayed in the position. I messed up
that situation and took the lead from Mark
and can say now he is upset. Apologies to
Mark. The result is there, and all I can say
is that I didn't do it deliberately.”

-Fonnulaoriedrlvorsehestlanvelllnlaboutpeselng
teammate Markwebbertovrlntliemalqyalanerand Prlxon
sundamwebborandvettel hadoonlrollalialntheraoovrhon
thelrtaamtoldwebbertnslowdowntbsavehlsorﬂneand
llree.Vel1ielpessedWebboreoonal'ter.tromESPN.oom

“It was an embarassment to football,
disrespectful to the game.”

- 0ostaRloanatlonaltnamsocoerooaohJomeLulsPlnto
allaroostaklcaloetgtotlrellsl-Oonl=l'ldqy.11ienratclrwas
plqyedlnﬂremlddleofasnoulstnrmlnberlvenllieﬁame
rnsstnppedtocleartlrepllnlinrarldnabelbreresumlrig
plqnandth'eyplqyedlwUrayallowandpurpleball.11roteam
planslr:llleanol‘llelalpmtestwllhFlFA.

Athlete of the Week

Senior Rick

1 Sykes earned All-
 American accolades
1 at the Division

III Swimming

and Diving

H 7 championships in

_ two event last week.
He ﬁnished fourth
overall in the 50
meter freestyle and
then teamed up

_ with senior Wayde
Marsh,junior David
 Ireland, and ﬁrst-

 ’ ~ _ year Brennan Haley
to ﬁnish 12th place in the 200 medley relay.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

  B BI'Ol3  
lVIinksR  

By Hendley Badcock
S TA F F  R lT E R

With only one week left in its spring sea-
son, the Washington and Lee Minks Rugby
Club is making the most of its time together,
on and off the ﬁeld.

“The spring season is when we usually
have exhibitions with teams in Division II,
and they don’t count toward our ﬁnal stand-
ings in our division,” said junior and team
captain Michael O’Connor.

Three weeks ago, the Minks made their
way down to Savannah, Ga. to compete once
again in the annual St. Patrick’s Day touma-
ment, in which they ﬁnished 1-1.

“A lot of teams play in the toumament—
Men’s Division, Men’s Club, DI, DII, DIII,”
said sophomore Charlie Myers.

With such a range of levels, the tournament
offered great competition and practice.

“After losing a hard-fought battle against
UGA’s team, we came back to win a neck-
and-neck game against Chapel Hill,” said
ﬁrst-year Mitchell Brister. “It is one of the
biggest tournaments in the southeast. So, of
course, the Minks are going to be present and
dominating.” .

Indeed, the Minks have had a solid record

MONDAY, MARCH

this year. -
Last fall, they 
place in the D3 m
the Virginia Rugby "
this spring, the tea a» 1' H
W&M this weekendli . '  ‘
school year. i: V .
Yet, despite their a -I »

' great deal of students don  M

the sport. ‘ _

“Rugby is a mix betwee if  '
and WWE,” explained Bri 1, h .i
mer baseball, football, so i" H
player, [I’d have_to s
most chal1enging,er‘n‘os '-‘
ing sport to play andtpﬁt M

The Minks welcome anyone interested, ex-
perienced or not, to come out and play.

“The [20 to 30] players come from all dif-
ferent fratemities,” said Myers. “That’s my
favorite part; it’s almost like a completely
separate fraternity. Everyone’s really good
friends with each other.”

Furthermore, the Minks carry on amusing
customs from their rich heritage.

“People don’t really hear about the culture’

  
 
  

 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
    
     

later i ._ _
this nam  -

Since t 3 ii i e rugby team has assumed the
mascot and recognizes, just'for thrills, its imp-
ish connotation.

So, while April marks the end of rugby,
those interested can certainly join the Minks
when they begin preseason practice before 0-
Week.

“We’re always looking for new players,”
Myers said. “And what young man wouldn’t
want to join in on all their fun?”

 

Blue and White fall
short to Catholic

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
team came out to a 3-0 lead against Catholic

» on Saturday, but was ultimately unable to hold

off the Cardinals, losing ll-9.

First-year Carly Taglienti started the game
off for the Generals with a goal ten minutes
in, quickly followed by a pair from sopho-
more Catherine Klinedenst. The Generals
were unable to hold off Catholic as they re-

sponded with three unanswered goals of their
own. The Generals traded goals with Catholic
up until the end, but were unable to overcome
being three goals down with just under ten
minutes to go.

The Generals were even with Catholic in
shots taken, but were unable to ﬁnd their way
around Catholic goalkeeper Tricia Pehnke.
For the defense, junior Leanne Stone led the

team with ﬁve groundballs and captain Olive
Waxter returned to the ﬁeld after being out
over two weeks. Junior Katie Hagen had two
assists and two goals for the»Generals in the
ﬁnal minutes of the match-up.

W&L has two ODAC games this week
when they host Randolph-Macon on Wednes-
day at 4:30, and travel to Lynchburg for an
11:00 a.m. match-up on Saturday.

 

Junior attacker Katie Hagen controls the ball during W&L’s game versus Catholic on Saturday
Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

ondeck         ,,

Tuesday Friday V

    

Wednesday Thursday . Saturday

at EM4pm

_ at Emory & Henry 1 and 4 pm

B a s e b a ll at Bridgewater 4 pm

Men’s Lacrosse

vs Lynchburg 7 pm at Va Wes 1 pm

vs R-M 4:30. pm

Women’s Lacrosse at.Lynchbu,g11am

M 9 n ' 5 T9 " n i5 ‘'5 '-Y"°hb“''g 4 Pm vs Carnegie Mellon 12:30 pm vs NC Wesleyan 2 pm

Women’s Tennis vsLynchburg4pm

Track

vs Carnegie Mellon 10 am
at CNU 12 pm

 

