   
  

WASHINGTONANDLEEUNIVERSHY     —

  RING-TUM PHI.

  
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 

0
BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 voiiiivircxvii, NUMBER 19
. ‘ A The identities of several
‘ members of the Cadaver Society
have been revealed!
_ p. 2
The eprtome of
Y O L O
The Outing Club is upping
their game and challenging
other clubs to go the extra
mile.  S
. .

 

0 HV crisis.
A string of Natural Light
Beer thefts leads to a
bafﬂed Le‘xPo. Safety in

numbers!

go social

     
   

    
  

     
   
 

Friend us on
Faoebook! ,

@.mgt..mpm Warns ﬁgalnst     W ./ii. @E..!.ii.Ii§ilt3lE as
bumming      TIHIIE roe IiEllE.iit.E]Eal1ii§ilE5

i ecurity       ii  A     A ilk?  

 

By Hannah Howard

‘ STAFF WRITER . , _ V
Hal/e Cl St0l"y l-d€af0V US? "I honestly just d0n’t understand yvhy people care  wear         

Send it to us On Twitter or Pajamas and sweat Pa'"5~” Said 5°Ph0m°rC Ma“ 3355- Latest ratings demonstrate that'W&L exhibits greatest racial diversity in "student body, beating out histor-

Facebook with I‘ Bass is one of the students who felt the consequences of new- ‘ ica11y_bIack colleges and California state Sch0O1S_
v ly enacted policies on dress. Although Washington and Lee has ‘ ‘ — i ' ‘

.  a higher percentage of students who do look nice for class, the V S i ’
ﬁe amount ofi>e0i>1e who bum it is increasing. 2) 42-Year-Old Student Found Wandering in Graham-Lees; Still Lost
Many people such as Bass see no reason to dress up merely . " ‘ . . . i »
~ to sit at a desk for an hour. First-year Wilson Prioleau said, “I  A—”.TheSe Years ‘ . ‘_ _ . h
enjoy teaming in early Classes, but I Wouldrather wear Comfom iVIlSSlI:1ghSt11dteIlt from tCltahss of  ﬁrﬁalllly discovered on the third ﬂoor stairwell. He claims e never
able clothing — sweat pants for example." _ eameg ow 0 navlga e 6 con smg a Ways‘ _ ‘

However, the administration is cracking down. Many profes-

News...2 1 sors reminisce about -the days when men put on a coat and tie to t   What   Pledgeshl-[7
opinbns---4 merld Class‘ .ACC.0n.hng. 10 a Suﬁ/.ey Ofthe faculty’ 81 percent of S New member education teaches Pledges how to swing dance, hold doors Open for girls, look good while
Arts & _ professors think it is disrespectful for students to attend class liﬁing and make the idea] ﬁ0»_y0 Swirl “Pm a'new man now” says Om Student ,
L'le''' while wearing clothes in which they clearly slept.  .' ~ ‘ i ' I .’ '
sport-.s___ Campus security is responding to the situation at the request ’

of the faculty. Students who are seen wearing sweatpants or g  Real RQCISOI1  C0-Op N0 LOI’lg€7‘ S€I"V€S Specially FVléS
. pajamas to class will be written a warning by ofﬁcers. After Studies found the specialty ingredient of Woods Creek run—off may be potentially damaging to students’
the officers issue the citation, they will require the students to health; Similar investigations are being conducted for the Colonnade Stack and Sunrise sandwich.‘

change before their next class. After receiving three citations,

, Wednesdo? d ‘ "llb - "d v «iiﬁ .  A A . »
' ' V} SmTEli]6:tS"idiiiini:ti:tCi:ii liot:si)tiliyaf1th:1iiin lldienentation of this 01- i it Ciadaverss Unmasked! » - ‘
5 Snow icv Wmihelp brim a mm: positive and gmfessional atmospgere _‘Professors,.faculty members, and sorority house moms revealed to be members of the secret society,
i S 11°. 30° tO'Ca,,,puS ‘ . g‘_‘Th'e c/apesare really cool,” confesses one member. “And you get to talk in these deep voices. You just
 Although they expect to meet resistance to the new strategy, <:”can‘tbeat..that' » ’ ' I S I
"[7/ll”,-Sday not“all_stu‘dents are opposed. . . ” . . . I g . V . ~ . . x t
_ It isn tthat dllllCUl[ to throw on nice pants and a shirt, said _   Surge ofStudents SlI’8ClklI’lg the Colonnade . t g ‘
Ram first-year /\rmai1i Smith. “i don’t think this Will he that big Of a . Forget about the pregnancy pact! With graduation right around the corner, seniors are forming “streaking
J . ; I

 
  
 
  
   
   
  
    

4 4 44 19°,  ° _ d  . , t g ,_ I Paths”  taking the Solonnade by storm.

  Resemblance between Sorority Bigs/Littles i if

 

C F ‘
rzdav ,
R . ‘Ii often said that old married couples look alike. This same phenomenon has been found between soror- . ’
am i ' ,,ami Littles, who demonstratestriking resemblance between generations. ‘ A A
€444 23°.40°   Q r i    
ee ~———~—*~em~**~ 1A-ecu-Weather predicts consistent seasonal weather for the rest of
Saturday heyear  ; .- . _ - : .

, V 7 evce/nt reports promise 100% accuracy infall future weather predictions. “Forecast aheadshows clear ,
-‘ L skies‘, with the occasional hurricane, but otherwise it looks good,” says weathennan.

 Driale
M 20°-35°

Sunday

 Mondciyiii

Snow

10°-32°  

.  9) Student Arrested by Campus Securityfor Wearing Sweats to Class
, K , “She wasn’t even wearing Norts,” sighs Public Safety officer, shaking his head. “She should have thought
I » ,-twice’ ,before“committi_ng such a serious fashion faux-pas... it’s unforgivable.”

 V 10) ‘Hidden’ Resolurces. on Campus that Every Student Should Know

  . S , '  . . .i _ " . 
._"~Did",n"t:lmow about the pool in Huntley or the coinnioriroonzi on the ﬁfth ﬂoor of Graham-Lees? Have no

—- fear!‘ Here’s your guide to all the greatest (Avery-well’) hidden resources you’ve never heard about (and. __

‘ - probably never will).

  

‘ The Ring-tum Phi is recyclable.

 

 

 

UNIVEFESITY LIBRARY
WASlllIIG'I’JN & LEE U:‘llllERSlTY
EKEIIEIUN, VA 24450
‘II 0 Z 

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 1,2013

fromthe
e d it 0 r

Readers,

I have decided to resign my position as Editor
in Chief of the Ring—tum Phi. This is a decision
that has taken me many days to eventually decide
upon, and one that I feel quite relieved to be
making. The truth is, the Editor position here at
the Phi is miserable. The oﬁice is a dark, damp
hole in the bottom of Leyburn, we use 1998
Dells to draft stories, and I ’m pretty sure I ’ve
contracted Bronchitis.

Another reason I ’veﬂnally cracked under the
pressure is because of the commandeering Jour-
nalism department. Although it may not appear
that the two organizations are connected, the
Phi staﬁ" operates under the iron ﬁst of the cruel
Professor Luecke. She may seem like a helpful,
kind department head. That is her greatest dis-
guise. On a weekly basis I am required to sit in
her oﬁice while she and the other Journalism
professors rant about the state of the paper.
They claim that it is an unprofessional mess that
should be burned at approximately 451 degrees.
Fahrenheit. The censorship that takes place is
incredible, and even as I write this I look over
my shoulder to make sure I ’m alone.

T he ﬁnal nail in my editorial coﬂin is the read-
ership. It breaks my heart to see papers strewn
about campus, trodden into the mud. Thrown in
the trash. Not even the recycling. The general
claim that nobody reads the paper That we are
useless. Well if you don’t read the paper, then
stop sending me death threats! I admit that it
has helped me to grow a “tough skin, ” sloughing
ojf the impending drowning, death by D-Hall,
stabbed with a high—heel, etc. but please. I beg
you; I am just a person trying to make it in the
world.

So I admit that I have ﬁnally given up. There
is no light in the Phi world, and I am sick of
printing the paper with my own blood. So I
am oﬂicially stepping down. Fear not, faithful
readers (of whom there are supposedly none).
You will not be left without a Captain. I have
put much of thought into choosing my succes-
sor,_ as it would be wholly irresponsible to leave
the organization without a leader Some of you
may know my fearless replacement: his name
is Mark Collins. I chose Mark as my successor

for several reasons. T he ﬁrst is that he just got
back ﬁom Europe and wants to make himself a
greater-known ﬁgure on campus. The second is
that he successfully reached 98% of the W&L
population in one day. A feat I could never hope
to accomplish. Cheers to you, Mark. I think you
will do a ﬁne job.

Thank you to those who have supported me
through the ups and downs of this position, and
I’m sure you will all see the transition through
smoothly. And to the Phi, in the words of the
great Humphrey Bogart, “Heres looking at
you, kid. ”

Postscript: Editor in Chief Collins would like
everyone to know that he has a side-job offering
as his personal assistant. The duties will include
gathering his and the Phi ’s mail, paying print-
ing costs, shopping for editor gifts, and waiting
for packages. He is offering the generous sum
of $800 per week for the lucky new assistant.
Please contact him if you ’re interested He says
it will only take five hours a week.

Sincerely,
Ex— Editor in Chief
Julianna Satterly

A new dynasty for W&L

IF C and Panhellenic run President Ruscio out of power: assume control

By Randy Karlson
STA F F w R IT E R

This past weekend the Interfratemity Council
and the Panhellenic Council staged a takeover of
the University and forced President Ruscio out of
ofﬁce and into hiding at VMI where numerous ca-
dets are protecting him until the two parties can
work out a resolution.

IFC President Richard Coulson and Panhel-
lenic Council President Anne Stafford are the mas-
terminds behind the maneuver and stated, “We’ve
been working on this for months, and everything
went exactly as planned.” The two groups were
able to execute their plan by recruiting ﬁve soldiers
from every Greek organization and invaded Wash-
ington Hall on Friday where they forced President
Ruscio tolhand over the oﬂice of President to both
Coulson and Stafford. V

When asked why the IFC and the Panhellen-
ic Council wanted to take control of the school,
Coulson answered, “Well, since 85% ofthe school
is a member of some sort of Greek organization,
we ﬁgured that everyone would be okay with it.”
While Stafford added, “It just made sense to us,
and I guess we wanted the last 15%.”

In the only interview that Ruscio has given
since the takeover he stated “I...I just don’t know
what happened, one minute I was surﬁng the web
in my ofﬁce, the next I was being thrown out by
.20 students covered in various Greek letters.” He
also added, “I had to give in to their demands. It
was a completely hostile takeover and I was forced
to give up the presidency to Mr. Coulson and Ms.
Stafford. I will be meeting with the two new pres-
idents in the coming days in order to work on a
more peaceful agreement to the situation.”

Even though Ruscio wants to work the situation

out, both Coulson and Stafford have impressive
plans for the school under new rule. “The ﬁrst thing
we plan on doing is converting all independents in
the school into Greek members,” stated Coulson,

“we’re going to create a new fraternity and soror-
ity for all current non-Greeks.” The new fraternity
and sorority names are yet to be announced, and he
mass initiations for each group of students will be

in Lee Chapel on April 3 and will be immediately
followed by a Red Square band party as well as
parties until 2 A.M. in the country.

Since the takeover on Friday there has been a
party at every fraternity every night, as well as the
Student Health Center being overrun by alcohol-
related visits. Kroger, Food Lion, and Wal-Mart
have all reported that they have sold out of all
Red Solo Cups and are planning to order three
times their normal supply for the remainder of the
school year. Lexington Police have also reported
numerous noise violations as well as the letters of
every fraternity and sorority being spray painted
throughout the campus and Rockbridge Country as
a whole.

The story of the Washington and Lee Greek
takeover has garnered national attention when
the story featured on CNN. The reporter who was
live on campus stated, “A school that is known for
preppy clothes, bricks and columns has been over-
run by their massive Greek population,” while a
student streaked the Colonnade in the background.

Coulson and Stafford are both pleased with
their work and Stafford even stated, “This has gone
beyond our wildest dreams, we didn’t even expect
to be put in the national spotlight and the power of
the new oﬁice feels great.” With his feet on Presi-
dent Ruscio’s desk, and a poster with John Belushi
wearing a “College” sweater on the wall behind
him, Coulson stated “I think this is the best for the
University; people are having fun, classes have
gotten easier, and we’re no longer a school that
people ask ‘Where?’ when you tell them where
you go. We’re now the school that’s been taken
over by Greek organizations and I love it.”

‘‘It’s all a part of the rush, man!”

W&L is Outing Club embraces the future of the Outdoors with several new trips

Bylosh White
STAFF WRITER

Diving off an airplane 5000 feet above ground -
without a parachute? Paddling through the world’s

most perilous rapids - blindfolded? Scaling the A

Rocky Mountains - one-handed? If this sounds
like fun, then the Outing Club is perfect for you!

Recently, the Outing Club has been experiment-
ing with new ways of getting an adrenaline rush in
an effort to attract more students. Its upcoming
plans include introducing various new classes and
activities, with the sole purpose of providing an
exhilarating experience.

This past month, the Outing Club invested in
ﬁve technologically advanced “wing-suits” to be
used recreationally by the student body. These
wing-suits, previously used only by experienced
skydiving professionals, allow the wearer to ﬂy
like a squirrel, and will be made available to all
Outing Club members.

Washington and Lee is not the ﬁrst school to
purchase these suits; in fact, it has become a na-
tional trend. “Programs at other schools have seen
amazingly positive feedback regarding the suits,”
said Director of Student Activities James Dick.
“What’s more, they’ve caused relatively few fa-
talities!”

According to Dick, only three students have
suffered life-threatening injuries so far. “Of these
injuries, one student crashed into the George Wash-
ington statue on top of the Colonnade and another
got stuck in the peak of Lee Chapel.”

“Dude, it was wild! I got to ﬂy over Commons

9

and see Woods Creek from all the way up there,’
said Bill Ding ‘ l3.

2‘ »When»asked about the possible legal repercus-
sions of having such a dangerous activity provided
by a school-funded organization, University repre-
sentatives responded by quoting the Outing Club’s
new catchphrase: “It’s all part of the rush, man!”

The school is also planning on offering a new
“sink or swim” PE course next fall, in which stu-
dents with little to no previous experience are
thrown into high intensity situations. This can
range anywhere from kayaking through class-ﬁve
rapids while blindfolded, to being led miles deep
into a cave and left without lights to ﬁnd your own
way out. These classes can be taken for a biology
lab credit when scheduled concurrently with Bio
ll 1: Natural Selection, Sur-
vival of the Fittest.

Dick sees a promising future of
unexplored outlets for students to quench their
outdoor and adrenaline thirsts. This Spring Break,
the Outing Club will be coordinating a free-solo
climbing (no ropes!) trip in Califomia’s legendary
Yosemite National Park. No prior experience is
required. 

Later, a crash course in '
wilderness survival will be
offered, in which participants 7‘i?~*’x:_'
will be dropped off some- I
where deep in the Alaskan
wilderness without supplies ,4

emu 2 at III III

"Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 8. I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450

540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online

Twitter @berkysfood E Find us on Face book

1% 6%

8%

5%

:>
5‘
O
PT‘
60
Cl‘
0
Cl‘
CT‘
CD
a
Pi.
2°
t"
5-
‘<2

 

An intensive study into how W&L students spend their time while on
Campus. This is the most wide-spead study ever done on the subject and
included almost 90% campus participation.

I Reading Campus Notices

V Following W&L Crushes and Compliments

ii‘ Going on Wa|~Mart runs

I Ordering Domino's at 2am

I Working Out to Burn Off All the Domino's

I Pretending to Study on the First Floor of Leyburn
I Actually Studying in the Library

I Listening to "Wagon Wheel"

or any means of contacting help. This program
has also been offered at other universities with
great success. According to faculty members, stu-
dents have written fascinating thesis papers about
surviving a grizzly bear attack, cannibalism, and
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) aﬁer par-
ticipating in the course.

The future of the Outing Club is brighter and
more exciting than ever before. If any of these
new opportunities interest you, do not hesitate
to contact either James Dick to express your
interest or to look in WebAdvisor for the
up— coming class options.
So I  long for ‘J

     
      
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   

now,
and re-
member,
it’s all
part of "I
the rush,
man!

    
 

 
      
  
  

 

 

 

   

MONDAY, APRIL 1,2013

 

I16

_ 3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI °

,.

 

The love letters of Robert E. Lee

By Allie Weiss

DESIGN EDITOR

It was a sunny Sunday afternoon when
President Kenneth P. Ruscio was moving
a piano into the comer of the Lee House
sitting room, out of the way of a lunch par-
ty that would take place later in the week.
As he pushed against the aged wood, an
enormous creaking sound erupted, and
one of the black boards came loose.

Upon closer inspection, President Rus-
cio ‘found that the inside of the piano was
not hollow, as pianos usually are. There
was something inside, barely noticeable
and decrepit with age. Reaching inside,
he withdrew a powdery, crumbling sheet
of thick yellowed paper. What he noticed
next made him drop the paper immedi-
‘\ ately and back away from the piano: the
paper was a letter, signed in 1869 by Rob-
ert E. Lee.

The history department got hold of the
letter—and several dozen others just like
it which had spent over a hundred years
buried inside of the piano—not long af-
terward. Apparently, the Lee House has
kept much of its fumiture since Lee died
in the dining room in 1870. Including the
piano. The letters had been laid to rest in-
side the instrument, unbeknownst to any-
one besides Lee himself, since that eerie
night on which he died.

“This is an amazing discovery,” says
" Jen Jenkins, historicist brought in to study

the letters. “It tells us so much about his
life, the thoughts. We can really get a bet-
ter grasp on who this man was. lt’s truly
incredible.”

But something bafﬂed department
members: the letters were all addressed
to, or signed by, M.K. Robinson. In the
whole of Lee’s biography, nowhere does
anyone by that name appear. So who was
this person? And why did the great war
hero go to such lengths to conceal these
letters?

“We can’t say anything for sure yet,”
Jenkins says. “There’s still so much to
dissect. But given the language that has
been used, and the level of familiarity
with which Lee corresponded with this
person, we think M.K. was a woman. We
think that they may have had a relation-
ship when he was youngAthe earliest let-
ter was dated in the spring of 1825.”

Lee left for West Point in the sum-
mer of 1825. Given Jenkins’ news, it is
possible that the young Robert Lee met a
woman before leaving for school and kept
in contact with her throughout his life.

Though the letters were not yet avail-
able to the public, a few phrases were
shared which hint at the nature of the re-
lationship.

“My dear Robert, I have not heard
from you since you left Hickory Hill. All

must be well, for I trust that I would have
heard were you injured. The news of your
recent promotion has reached us, and all
the town has been rejoicing! Oh, that you
were here with us now, that I could ‘rest
my weary eyes upon your face again...”

“...I am sorry to hear that your son is
still sick. Rest quietly, though, dearest.
Were I with you, I would provide the sur-
est comfort. Imagine me beside you, my
arms outstretched...”

“Your last visit was far too short. While
I understand that the duties of a husband
are numerous and consuming, I do wish
that they had never taken hold of you. Or,
if they must have, then I wish that they
had done so with you as my husband. It is
a dream I relive often...”

Such remarks were hardly appropri-
ate at the time. They have left scholars to
conclude that Lee, for all his valor and no-
bility, may have led a life apart from the
glory and fame. This private life, recorded
in the looping scrawls of what seem to
be century-old love letters, cast Lee in a
whole new light.

_ Beer bandits behind bars

The entire W&L student body was arrested at Walmart for nickin ’Natty

By Graham Colton
copv EDITOR

This just in:

All 1,838 undergraduates at Washing-
ton and Lee were arrested in the wake of
reports of a series of thefts of 30-packs
ofNatural Light at the local Walman.

The Lexington Police Department is

hedging their bets, by arresting everyone,

whovﬁts the description of the alleged
beer bandits.

The police are looking for a Cauca-
sian woman, from 18 to 22-years-old,

about 5’8’’, 130 lbs, with long, straight,
blond hair, who was wearing a green
Barbour jacket and cowboy boots. They
are also on the hunt for a Caucasian man,
who also appeared to be between I8 and
22-years-old, about 6’0”, with hair part-
edto the side, wearing a Ducks Unlimit-

-ed t-shirt, khakis, and those fratty boots.

Both suspects are purported to be
students in the Williams School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics.

A second theﬂ occurred one night
later, and this time a similar-looking
woman broke the law in casual and
sporty style. Bundled up in a Women’s
Metropolis Parka layered atop of a Pata-
gonia pullover, whilst sporting Ray-Ban
Aviators and stowing Wayfarers in her
black North Face backpack, she strode
inconspicuously to the tower of tipple,
somehow hid some cans of Natural
Light in her spandex pants and dashed

out the automatic doors in a blur of ne-
0n—colored Nike running shoes.

Security camera footage remains in-
conclusive.

One school administrator, speaking
under the condition of strict anonymity,
is acting in concert with every student’s
father.

“Their dads, yes. Their dads will pay
the lawyer fees to get them out ofjail
and then we can put this all behind us,”

she or he said.

A sociology professor, also convers-
ing conﬁdentially, shed light on why ev-
eryone looks the same.

“It is a veritable cornucopia of so-

cietal expression run horribly a_mok,”_
she or he said. “These arrests beg the,

question: if _ fashion is a means o,f,se_lf;,

expression, then what are these students
saying? I’m loath to postulate an eluci-
dation.”

u

Total 8

, revamped

 

ByYejean Kim
STAFF warren
er

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

rat Move:

According to Jim Brown of Campus 
curity, as well as various Victims, a random l
W&L sorority girl—identiﬁed as such only
through a glimpse of her monogrammed Ter- 
vis tumbler——has been stealing Barbour jack- ‘
ets since after Feb. break. ‘

“I was just walking down Srat Row, tex- ;
ting my roommate, when she came out of 
nowhere and ripped my Barbour right out of
my hand!” stated sophomore Abigail Schue.
“If anyone’s seen it, it has a gold ribbon my
grandmother wore to her cotillion tied to the ,
tag. I’d really like it back.” M

Even the male population isn’t safe. “I ‘
was alone on the porch at one of our houses,” ~
stated junior Harris Miller, “taking a break
from a so-far clutch night, when this super
hot, super fast chick came ﬂying out of no-
where and took my Barbour right out of the
chair I’d put it in. Then she jumped the rail
and ran off. She was really ﬂexible, actually.

' It might have been because she was wearing
yoga pants.”

According to Campus Security, at least
twenty-seven students have reported thefts of
their Barbour jackets, with an estimated thirty
or more too devastated to come forth.

“I hate to say it, but this sorority girl, who-
ever she is, seems to be real fast and on a real
rampage,” Mr. Brown stated. “If you want
your Barbour to remain safe, you’re going to
have to keep your closet under lock and key.
That’s just the way it is. Who knows, the cow-
boy boots may be next.”

As for Miller, he only has a few words for
the perpetrator: “You’re clearly crazy. But
you were also smoking hot. Call me.”

INTENSIVE
YOR

May 28-June 20, 2013

Four-eek Courses and Workshops
in Dance, Environmental Studies,

- Earn four college credits*
- Study at The New School—a legendary
urban university in Greenwich Village

- Network with top professional

‘Check with your college to see if credits are transferable.
An affirmative action/equal opportunity institution. Photo: Matthew Sussman.

- THE RING-TUM PHI -

Politial animal esca

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF WRITER

As part of an increasingly common
trend in her political life, Congresswom-
an Michelle Bachnian (R-MN) has once
again escaped the security and censor-
ship zone of her entourage and has yet
to be relocated. According to reports,
Mrs. Bachman has taken to assaulting
citizens of the District of Columbia with
unsubstantiated claims regarding her
political rivals’ ethnicity, religious afﬁli-
ations, and sexuality. In certain circum-
stances, it has been said that whenever
victims of her verbal assaults inquire as
to the sources of her claims, she imme-
diately criticizes them for “distracting
the American people from the heart of
the issue” blaming the “lamestream me-

dia” for people’s skepticism regarding
her behavior, looking ‘off in the distance
seemingly into a camera despite the fact
that no media personnel or cameras were
present.

The Congresswoman verbally as-
saulted one victim, Michael Terrance
of D.C., while he was on his way to an
internship interview. “Yeah it was really
weird. She just kept shouting about how
the White House had been penetrated by
the Muslim Brotherhood, only to accuse
me of muddling the issue when I asked
her to back up her claims.” A witness to
the bizarre attack, Ms. Betty Woodward,
was passing by when she saw the Con-
gresswoman “just screaming this poor

pies from zoo,

guy’s head off, constantly blocking her
face to a camera that wasn’t there.”

When the Ring Tum Phi inquired to
the Congresswoman’s ofﬁce regarding
this most recent episode, her former
Chief of Staff claimed that her “tradi-
tional M.O. is to shoot ﬁrst, ask ques-
tions later, especially if none of her staff
is around to keep her from just making
stuff up. It’s really all about getting on
TV, getting noticed, because if she just
ran on her abysmal win-loss record in
the House no one would give her a sec-
ond look.”

This attitude is what led staff to con-
struct a cage-like structure in her Capital
office and DC home,.so as to prevent fu-

M o N’DAY, APRIL 1, 2013

Sunsets on sunrise

By Leah Gose
STAFF WRITER

This past Sunday, President Rus-
cio announced that the famous Sunrise
Sandwiches sold only at Cafe 77 (or
better known as the Co-Op) will no lon-
ger be offered on the menu or anywhere
else on campus. Citing that the “addic-
tive and unhealthy” sandwich was not
“real food”, the President solidiﬁed that
the sun will never rise again for students
hoping to use up their Food Flex Dollars
before the end of the year.

The Sunrise Sandwich is possibly
the best combination of all the worst
things: a browned croissant ﬁlled with a
fried egg and American cheese, and the
possible choices of bacon, ham, and/
or sausage. As I watched on of the last
Sunrise sandwiches to be made, a Cafe
77 employee informed me that the sand-

 wiches will be made until the ingredi-

ents run out.

‘President Ruscio claimed that the
sandwiches, which are made-to-order
any time of day, did not “make sense
on campus” and “do not maintain the

, sanity of the ‘sandwich’.” After talk-

ing to multiple Deans with offices lo-
cated in the Commons, it was noted that
many did not agree with the President’s

"choice. An anonymously quoted Dean
informed the Phi that they had seen the
President continuously send his admin-
istrative aid to purchase a sandwich dai-
ly (which was never purchased at a time
intended for eating breakfast). ‘‘I do not
understand what I’m supposed to do for
lunch when I am too lazy to pack one”
added the source.’ 4»

Without the classic Sunrise Sand-
wich, Washington and Lee students can
expect to see no replacement before the
year is out. It is rumored that President
Ruscio’s addiction to the sandwiches
has led to this school wide “blackout”.
Whether or not students and Deans will
be likely to voice concern for their ob-
vious loss, Cafe’ 77 employees worry
that there will be massive increase in
the purchase of “loaded fries” (a tasty
choice as well, but not as movement-
friendly). “I don’t understand why the
President can’t just say ‘no’,” added an
employee “this is not fair to the students
or whoever has to work the fryer.” The
Sunrise Sandwich will be missed, but
rest assured, I most deﬁnitely enjoyed
one of the ﬁnal few.

evades handlers

ture incidents like those seen at her 2013
CPAC speech wherein she claimed the
President’s budget was $1.4 billion for
dog—walkers, ﬁve chefs, and projection-
ists. Again, neither she nor her staff pro-
vided sources.

When the Phi inquired to Congress-
woman Bachaman’s old professors at
Winona State University, many ex-
plained that her basic sourcing and at-
tribution skills left much to be desired.
Prof. Steve Smith elaborated that “when-
ever I would confront Michelle about the
utter lack of liberal arts etiquette and ba-
sic sourcing in her writing materials, she
would take out a big video camera and
claim that I was detracting from the is-

sue and that I was liberally biased.”

While there are many questions re-
garding the Congresswoman’s recent
behavior and she is still at large, some
questions have been at least partially
answered. For years, many pundits have
speculated as to the motivations behind
Marcus Bachman’s (Congresswoman
Bachman’s husband) disturbingly strong
dedication to “reparative therapy” for
homosexuals. This episode lends cre-
dence to the argument that Mr. Bachman
is simply jealous at the idea of homosex-
uals being in a happy relationship with a
mentally stable partner, and is commit-
ted to preventing others from experienc-
ing such happiness.

   
 
    

O

. Look familiar?
The Gay marriage debate
rages on both in Washing-
ton and Lexington. Who’s
going to come out on top?

as

 

What’s yours? Find your
own happiness even in the
doldrums of Finals Week.

    

Friend us on
Facebook!

 

C
Have a story idea for us?
Send it to us on Twitter or
_ M F acebook with ' W‘
. News...6
Arts 8: Life...8
Sporls...9
Wednesday
Sunny
23°- 51°
C
Thursday
 Partly Sunny
A 35°- 51°
Friday
Drizzle
3o°- 50°
Saturday
I Brilliant sun

39°-56°

Sunday
Partly Sunny

45°- 61°
Monday S
Cloudy

.   480.660

 

 

The use of study drugs

is a growing concern on

campus

By Andrea Owen
STAFF WRITER

With ﬁnals approaching, students are
buckling down. Some are chugging
coffee, others are swigging Five-Hour
Energy shots, and others are taking am-
phetamines.

The National Institute on Drug Abuse
says that stimulant medications like Ad-
derall, Vyvance, Concerta, and Ritalin
“elevate mood, increase feelings of well-
being, and increase energy and alert-
ness.”

Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Student
Health and Counseling Services, further
described stimulant medications.

“Stimulant medications are used to
treat Attention Deﬁcit Hyperactivity Dis-
order,” she said. “In those people, they
improve focus and concentration and al-
low them to be better organized in terms
of approaching their work. [The medi-
cine] sort of puts them on [a more equal]
playing ﬁeld as someone who does not
have that medical condition.”

Sophomore, Particia Kirkland went 2-0 in her match on Saturda
the No. 7 seat, 7-2.

THE,STUDENTS AND

One student at W&L who was diag-
nosed with ADHD in second grade, has
a legal prescription for Vyvance to help
her academic coherence, focus, and mo-
tivation.

“Trying to do work without it, my sen-
tences run on, I lose focus, and it just
doesn’t make sense,” she said. “And
also without it a lot of times l’ll do my
work fast, but I’ll miss words or [things]
like negative signs or numbers which can
screw up the whole meaning or prob-
lem.”

She also said that the medicine helps
her socially. .

“Without it, I have no ﬁlter, my thoughts
aren’t coherent, and I say anything that
pops into my head,” she said.

But not all students who take these
medicines have prescriptions.

In 2011, 19.5% of Washington and Lee
students said they had used non-pre-
scribed stimulant drugs that year either

Q o

ust kidding, now on to the
AL news...

SINCE

1897

RING-TUM PHI.

FOR THE STUDENTS

VOLUME CXVII, NUMBER 19

recreationally or to enhance academic
performance, according to the National
College Health Assessment.

Another W&L student said he took Ad-
derall to help him with ﬁnals this year.

“I never lost focus or energy,” he said.
He said he thinks he did better on his
exams than he would have without the
medication.

But some say these ‘drugs do not en-
hance academic performance in every-
one.

“Professors often say they can tell
when someone has written a paper using
stimulants because it will be a whole lot
of words, but not necessarily something
that could not have been said in a lot
less,” said Horton. “So they don’t neces-
sarily think the quality of work may be
any better. In fact, it may be worse.”

One W&L student described a time he
used a non-prescribed amphetamine in
high school before his ﬁnal exams.

y versus Carnegie Mellon. W&L women's tennis upset Carnegie Mellon,

- ' ’
. sir.

“I wrote a lot on my ﬁnal exams and I
thought I’d crushed [them], but I’d pretty
much gotten Cs and Ds and Fs on all of
them,” he said.

He said that although he felt focused,
he also felt he lacked creativity while on
the drugs.

A W&L student cited using a friend’s
medication during pledgeship. He also
said that although the drugs got him to do
his work, they might not have improved
the quality of the work.

Horton also explained that stimulant
medications might hurt academic perfor-
mance because they interfere with sleep.

“If those medications interfere with
sleep, then they can have a negative ef-
fect on the kind of learning and memory
that we think people should want to get
out of college, which is long-terrn and
not just cramming for a test,” she said.

Continued on page 7

 

 
    

 

 

 

6 0 THE RING—TUM PHI -

 

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

 

 

wluSocial is gaining presence both on and oﬂcampus

By Krysta Huber
STAFF warren

Since the early days of Facebook and
Twitter, social media has proven to be an
increasingly important source for infor-
mation, especially among young adults.
Recognizing this fact, W&L web com-
munications is building on its social me-
dia initiative on campus.

Under the guidance of Web Commu-
nications Specialist Jamie Goodin, a
group of 8 students have been working
since September to maintain W&L’s so-
cial media presence on sites like Twitter,
Facebook, and Pinterest as part of the
organization wluSocial.

wluSocial operates under the account
name @wlulex on these sites. It works to
fulﬁll the promises of its mission state-
ment:“@w1ulex is the student—led social
media hub of creativity, information, and
interaction for the Washington and Lee
community in Lexington.”

And provide information @wlulex cer-
tainly does.

If you open your Twitter account right
now and read through the account’s
tweets you will ﬁnd an array of informa-
tion ranging from W&L sporting events
and scores, to guest speakers on campus.
Similarly its Facebook page and Pinter-
est are covered with posts and pins on all
things Washington and Lee.

Goodin said that before wluSocial was
created, W&L’s social media sites were
more successful in reaching alumni ver-
sus current students.

“The bread and butter of the school,
the current students, were not being
reached,” Goodin said. “Where are they?
What do they want to know? What’s the
best way to answer these questions? Go
to the source and talk to the students
themselves.”

One of these sources who currently
works for wluSocial is Hank Hill ‘l4.
Hill said he became interested in wluSo-
cial because of his future career plans.

“My post-graduate plans involving ad-
vertising heavily involve social media,”
Hill said. “So learning the professional
ropes while at W&L was right up my al-
ley.”

WASHINGTON AND IEE UNIVHISITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

Bridget Rooney ‘l4 also thought that
working for wluSocial would be a ben-
eﬁcial experience for her academic in-
terests.

“I’m interested in advertising and Pub-
lic Relations, so this seemed like it could
be a good opportunity to learn more
about social media,” Rooney said. “It
has turned out to be a great way to have
real world experience during the school
year and learn how to use social media in
a professional setting.”

Another member, Jessica Duffy ‘13
sought a job with wluSocial to fulﬁll her
work-study position.

“When looking for a work study posi-
tion I expressed interest in doing some-
thing with technology or with the com-
munications office,” Duffy said. “It was
suggested I apply for the @wluLex posi-
tion, and I’m really glad I did.”

Hill said that wluSocial members are
each in responsible -for publicizing a
certain aspect of the W&L community.
Hill covers recreational activity includ-
ing Outing Club events and Intramural
Sports, while Duffy is responsible for
sports. -

“Each of the members also has a proj-
ect per semester such as Fancy Dress, or
Accepted Students Day,” Hill said. “I’m
actually making a promotional video for
Lexington.”

Web Communications Director Jessica
Willett said she thinks that W&L’s social
media presence is more advanced than
other institutions.

“We know that W&L is one of only a
handful of schools that have embraced
student input on our ofﬁcial social me-
dia channels,” she said. “It felt like a big
gamble at ﬁrst, but we are really happy
with the results so far.”

Goodin agreed that W&L’s role in so-
cial media is relatively strong.

“Sure, we’ll never have as many fol-
lowers as a 16,000+ student school, but
it’s not about quantity. It’s about qual-
ity,” Goodin said. “Our student insights,
mixed with our advanced knowledge of
social media and technology trends will

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITORS

SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

JULIA LANG

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SCHIFF

LEAH GOSE

HAILEY HARTLEY
RACHEL ADAMS-HEARD
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER

KYLE JAEGER

RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

ANDREA OWEN

keep us useful, relevant and engaging.”
wluSocial is currently accepting ap-
plications for the 2013-2014 academic
year, which are due by April 21. Ap-
plication questions can be found on the

htejjactlon, for the Washington and Lee Unhrersityoolmnunlty in‘

Profile summary

Web Com-
munications

section of the
school website.

Rooney

E: ‘R’ 

Lexington.

Lexington, VA - http://www.wIu.edu ‘

2,416 878 956

 WLU Crushes Samantha Sisler, Rachel Christensen 

wluLex

Isl

Wilkins play for the next hour. l.iveA'.TheLab

Details

wluLex

H

wluLex

I053

closes today! wlucareers bi:.ly,-"Ol,8VLio

 wluLex

." " I“ ....maybeasign of spring? - sprlnglecomlng Iexpic TwitpiC.CC-n'1-" 

G010 ‘LII proﬁle 

said

Beer and live music are still flowing at Blue Lab! Head on over to hear Alex

Bored? Go over to Blue Lab from 2:30 - 5 to hear alum Alex Wilkins play
Li-ie-‘«.:TheLal:~ and grab a pint {or two) of Coffee Chocolate Stout.

Want to take the MCATS over spring break? Registration for the 4/ l 3 test

Running with the #hashtag ,

 
  
   
   
   

that
she is look-

ing forward to having new
members join the wluSocial team. One
of the biggest challenges she has faced
this year is coming up with new content
ideas.

“We’re excited to hire some fresh
minds for next year’s team,” she said.

Goodin said that one of the character-
istics they will be considering with each
applicant is attitude. While prior skills
are certainly beneﬁcial, they are also
something that can be taught.

“Is this student open-minded, able to
learn, responsible? Does this student
understand, appreciate and love what it
means to be a W&L student?” Goodin
said. “lt’s the basics of being a purpose-
and team-driven learner that we’re look-
ing for.”

yria: An
ongoin

  

 

confli

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

BUSINESS MANAGERS DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
MICHAEL DONNELLAN
JONATHAN SELLS

KANE THOMAS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
’/I WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Growing from protests and small
bombings to multiple massacres and
a large refugee problem, the situa-
tion in Syria continues. It is com-
mon knowledge to most students on
campus that Syria is in the midst of
a brutal civil war. However, it can
be diﬂicult to understand the rea-
sons behind the war and the interna-
tional ramiﬁcations of the conﬂict.

Although Syria is primarily made
up of oneethnic group, according to
the CIA World Factbook, it is very
religiously diverse. This has often
caused tensions in the past and is
part of the reason behind the current
civil war. The main impetus for the
war, however, is the anti-govem-
ment sentiment that has been grow-
ing in many countries in the area.

Since March of 2011, rebels have
protested the authoritarian regime
of President Bashar al-Assad. Ac-
cording to BBC reports, the ﬁrst of
many protests started in Deraa after
“the arrest and torture of some teen-
agers who painted revolutionary
slogans on a school wall.” How-
ever, by June of 2011 the riots had
spread across the state.

The govemment’s attempts to
suppress the uprising with military
force left 700 people dead after only
a month. After an original rebel re-
treat in April 2012, additional mis-
sions by the military have been un-
successful.

  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  

The situation in Syria is creating
such an international controversy
because of the human rights issues
arising in the midst of war. In Dec.
2012, the Ofﬁce of the High Com-
missioner for Human Rights in
Geneva stopped trying to estimate
deaths because the counting had
grown too difficult.

Bombings and massacres are
the root of the majority of deaths.
Assad’s ofﬁcials blame terrorists for
many of the bombings, while rebels
blame the security forces. It is un-
clear who is actually behind these
civilian attacks. However, the UN
has accused the pro-govemment
military of violating humanitarian
law by targeting innocents.

The threat of human rights viola- T

tions has caused many people to
ﬂee the country. The Syrian refu-
gee situation is a crisis on its own
as neighboring countries try to ﬁnd
a place to house the runaways. Ac-
cording to BBC, more than one mil-
lion people have moved into Jordan,
Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey.

As of now, there has not been
a heavy amount of international
involvement. Many nations are
watching the situation closely. Yet,
other than an EU arms embargo,
there has been little active.move-
ment or aid by the major global
players. Time will tell if they will
intervene as the crisis progresses.

  

 

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

7 0 THE RING-TUM.PH| -

 

 

 

, Joining the debate

W&L students see an increase in acceptance of the LGBT Q community

: By Rachel Adams-Heard
STA F F W R IT E R

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Washington and Lee University
students are actively participating
in the Gay marriage debate both on
campus and in Washington.

The Supreme Court heard the first
arguments on Proposition 8 and the
Defense of Marriage Act on Tues-
day, March 26. Demonstrators lined
the sidewalks outside the Court, both
protesting and supporting the debat-
ed legislation, which specifies that
marriage should only be between a
man and a woman.

First-Year Madison Smith went
to Washington in hopes of observ-
ing Westboro Baptist Church for
her research paper. After reading
their scheduled protests on the WBC
website, Smith attempted to catch
the group at the Pentagon and the
Arlington Cemetery, but with no
luck. When she arrived at the Su-

 

 

 
 
 

preme Court at noon, she received

Westboro had been there earlier in

word from another protestor that’

the morning.

Smith spoke to an anti—gay mar-
ri_age protestor, who wore a burlap
sack over a denim shirt that bore his
name embroidered on the right side,
and held a sign that read, “God made
them male and female, and said...a
man shall be joined to his wife,” a
verse from Mark 10:6-7.

Smith said the man repeatedly ig-
nored her when she asked him about
how the Constitution applied to gay
marriage.

‘ Back in Lexington, sophomore lg-

‘ nacio Portela, better known as “Na-

cho,” explained that he considers

the current debate “silly, [since] the

principles that America claims to go

by should give the same rights and

freedoms to everyone.” Portela then

said that he sees gay marriage in the

' country’s future and that much of the
argument right now is superﬂuous.

Senior Wayde Marsh said he hopes

to see DOMA and Prop 8 defeated

 

Madison Smith ’16 observes Westbbro Baptist Church protests in Washington for a research paper.

Continued, from “Poppin’ the pill”

Two W&L students said they had tak-
en Adderall recreationally. Both said
they felt very focused on anything that
grabbed their attention, but that they had
stayed up until 7 a.m., much later than
they had wanted to.

Horton said that she occasionally sees
students come into the Health Center
agitated and drunk after using the drugs
recreationally with alcohol.

And there are other complications that
the drugs can have. The student who
was prescribed Vyvance for ADHD de-
scribed some issues she has had with her
medication in the past year.

“[My doctor] found out last year that I_

have a heart murmur,” she said, explain-
ing that the stimulants had exacerbated
the murmur. ‘

She also described the negative effects
on her personality.

‘‘I’m a lot happier and more carefree
when I’m not on it,” she said.

She added that the medication also in-
terferes with her appetite and that she
usually skips lunch and that ﬁnding the
right medication for her has been a dif-
ﬁcult trial—and-error process.

In addition, Horton says that she has
seen students come into the Health ‘Cen-
ter after overdosing.

“Occasionally we will see someone
who has a prescription for it and has
been trying to finish up a lot of work and
has taken too much of it, and they will
come in with a rapid pulse, high blood
pressure, feeling very anxious,” she said.

In her 25 years, Horton has seen 2-3
episodes when students who had over-
dosed on stimulants had to be taken to
the hospital.

Horton also described the legal conse-
quences of non-prescription stimulant
use.

“I think a lot of students are not aware
about how serious the legal consequenc-
es are,” she said. Even giving the drugs
to a friend who does not have a prescrip-
tion, she said, is a Class II felony.

*Sources have been promised conﬁ-
dentiality.

_ _ K“ index] I (,nc,,_....) . L -
r-11 .

» fullnwrngf l‘\‘.cur.\.'\\.c f ‘ . ‘
\l“7n xhk . —T -. ‘H-“‘“"‘ \S 4;'\\
\ Al O as -.n;:un\L.ntx. --\ u.-e\
jut Jli

index) '-

mg. .

gm

1 L

 

“ hk,“ ﬁn» tullus-mug ‘~k..,\“\.‘VQ‘

’.. -an

(3

  

\\ . » .
L‘ O as '.\rgun\cI\\\‘-. unuxuu \\ \_ “
.\ “Q

1-,~(__rin'-3 ) ‘

- dexl
Until-"1

-.§,,Li. . V . \
‘ ‘(tn \“ ‘1 I.
vs 1\’§""-

\ ~st:\i‘3”“

-4- examp'1.‘.’5(Bt'-‘l-’<-¥?‘U'\<3. index 4. 1‘ 3

M,‘ \\m.,N.,g¢;g \Vtnt\£x%‘g ..
..f \_u ixxxfitg
\‘ ,_.k‘mt_; _ gmd. 3
‘>“.‘,\..““-1?‘ DY

 
 

on the basis that marriage equality is
a civil rights issue, but he promotes
patience and open communication
on both sides of the argument.

“If we do notitake the time to have
a fair dialogue with both sides, the
issue will not be resolved peace-
fully, regardless of the outcome of
the Supreme Court’s decision,” said
Marsh.

Both Portela and Marsh said they
believe that the W&L environment
is increasingly supportive of the
GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual,
Transgender, Questioning) commu-
nity.

Marsh adds, “I think our campus
has found a nice balance where the
GLBTQ community is more wel-
comed and supported, but not at the
expense of demonizing or alienating
those who do not believe that those
are acceptable lifestyles.”

.7 >'¢'..;'..§,,,‘,‘a‘V,_?hw‘r

W; on <:c=.v.,»t'\es
e‘x‘e~::i\!\‘;,
ea ‘$x\u:., s'.\u;\\ 13*

1 ..~ :1 t\’\t‘_ £t£i>?“‘?im““i

  

 

 

 

 

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

a rts &l i fe

 

 

  Speak Hosts  
Ta e Back the N ig

 

nulal
t

Survivors of rape and sexual assault come forward and share their stories in a cat artic evening

By Yejean Kim
STAFF WRITER

This past Thursday, SPEAK held its
annual Take Back the Night in a collab-
orative effort with l-in-4 and the Uni-
versity Counseling Center. Held, at the
Cohen Amphitheater,jthe night proved
to be cathartic for the survivors who
shared their stories and enlightening for

its often shocked listeners. ‘ ‘

First started at Washington and Lee six
years ago, the night is an opportunity for
survivors of rape and sexual assault to
come forward and share their stories.
Said senior Johanna Cho,'President‘ of
SPEAK and herself a survivor: “For the
speaker, talking about such ‘a personal
experience in public can beespecially
cathartic and healing. It’s a way for the
student to feel a sense of empowerment,
[over] herself and over her life, which
can seem lost to a survivor of sexual as-

grea” , yvar

Fnding

Does anything else matter? Cancelmo a’e

By Graham Colton
c o P Y E D I T 0 R

Laborious hours spent wasting away
in the bowels of Leybum; four hours
of a science lab; endless, soul-crushing,
mind—numbing, irksome hours of aca-
demic drudgery.

Hell, on earth.

Be happy.

Richard P. “Duke” Cancelmo Jr. ‘80, a
partner with Bridgeway Capital, an in-
vestment management company based
in Houston, spoke on how to be happy
at work. His presentation was the ﬁnal
talk in Washington and Lee’s yearlong
“Questioning the Good Life” interdisci-
plinary seminar series. ,

With a thick Texas drawl and good-
natured Southern hospitality, Cancelmo
asked, “The Good Life: Can Your Work
Life Become Your Life’s Work?” It was
open to the public at no charge. His
employer keeps half of their proﬁts for
themselves and donates the other half to
charity.

The all-mighty, never—ending, tear-
inducing quest for eudaimonia (human
ﬂourishing) begins and ends with, in
Cancelmo’s words, “people, places,
and purpose.” Rather than summariz-
ing how that works in his world, I’ll see
how we can integrate his scheme into
ours. Inspired by Leah Gose’s no holds
barred, truly insightful commentary on
our dehumanizing and deindividualiz-
ing pursuit of perfection, I can see how
we can be happy while at work at W&L.
Thank you, Leah.

People. Perhaps you relate to your so-
rority sister or fraternity brother. And
they make you happy. But go on, min-
gle with a Jeed (GDI). You might like
it. We may not be as attractive, athletic,

  

sault/rape. Second, it is important for
the community. All members of our
community need to hear these stories
because one of our aims is to foster ‘a
healthy and safe campus culture.”

The night began with a speech from
psychologist Janet Boller, who de-
nounced the victim-shaming mentality
that is rampant in today’s culture, espe-
cially due to social media. Giving ex-
amples such as two female anchors who
lamented the effects -of a guilty verdict
on two young rapists, she shed a new
light on how deeply these behaviors
have pervaded society today.

The night then continued with stories
from several survivors, some of whom
were present to tell their ordeal, while
some stories were submitted anony-

intelligent, well-dressed, or socially un-
awkward as you, but... were something
else. I often ﬁnd my greatest happiness
in mingling with the uncool. For in-
stance, though I may feel it obligatory
to say “Hey, (blank)” to an attractive girl
(and interact with her no more), I know
that I’m just another person on the long
list ofthose seeking to greet her. But on
nights when Cafe ’77 is really busy, and
the line’s long, and everyone’s enjoying
themselves except for the wage-slaves
(i.e., digniﬁed people) behind the coun-
ter, I can’t help but compliment myself
on my upstanding citizenship for ask-

ing the woman behind the cash register,

 

inger also spoke, representing a member
of a rarely-heard faction of the student
body: male friends who became conﬁ-
dantes for survivors. In a particularly
distressing moment, he stated, “I re-
member being shocked when a friend
came to me and shared her story. But
then another did. And then another.
And lthenlanother. And then another.
And then three more.”

Horrifyingly, the number of survivors
who have come forth remains about the
same every year, which was both frus-
trating and aggravating for Cho.» “Why
does this keep happening?,” she asked a
silent, attentive crowd. “What more can
we do to prevent it?”

However, she also praised W&L for
implementing active bystander train-
ing, and ended the spoken portion of

rd rto:i:re,ate-7'
v ' .:,.~‘.T.,f

‘How are you?” and actually meaning
it. ‘

And then places. Some among us feel
a great attachment to this, the alma ma-
ter. But where else do you ﬁnd mean-
ing? In what places? We would do
well to step outside of our dwellings
(be they Greek houses, residence halls,
or off-campus habitations) and ﬁnd an-
other home away from home away from
home (that is, somewhere else than here
or home). I found mine at the Lexington
Ofﬁce on Youth, where mainly minor-
ity children of low socioeconomic status
accepted me, a spoiled, Caucasian col-

5

legian, as one of them. The dirt on my

the night by calling the Head RA, Head
Peer Counselor, and President of l-in-4
to say The Pledge, along with the audi-
ence, whichpromises that the speaker

, will never “commit or condone sexual

violence of any kind.” The night ended
with a candlelit walk for’ every survivor
of rape and sexual assault.

As for all the ‘attendees, Cho stated:
“Your attendance is symbolic of your
absolute intolerance for sexual assault
and rape on campus. It is also a demand
for a healthier, safer campus culture.
Who doesn’t want that? You would say
the answer is ‘no one.’ No one is against
a safer, healthier campus culture. No
one is against better, more meaningful
relationships between students, platonic
or otherwise. No one is against happi-
ness and health.”

’ _ l

Happiness in College

ivers the last of the “Questioning the Good Life ” series

jeans (from playing football with them)
is proofenough, no?

Finally, purpose. What’s yours’?
What’s mine, you ask? Um, being the
pest person I can be, despite numerous
fallibilities. But I often succumb to
these fallibilitics, and ﬁnd myself un-
happy. Our purpose must go beyond
large breasts, muscles, hair, one‘s place
on Gree/(Ran/<.cnm, and the getting of
A’s and girls and guys. In the words
of Kanye West, “Whachu about?” Are
you about the above purposes‘? Or other
ones?

Stickin’
It to
the

Man

Raging hard with
Henry David Thoreau

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

Laura Dassow Walls, an English pro-
fessor at the University of Notre Dame,
spoke last week about Henry David Tho-
reau.

Thoreau’s pretty interesting, to say the
least. Just as we are ﬁnding ourselves
during these four years, Thoreau spent
his entire life in search of himself. Dr.
Walls classiﬁed his work into four sec-
tions: counter frictions, truth, beauty, and
cosmos.

Counter frictions. There’s certainly
some friction in my life. Between my
suitemates and I, when ‘they turn on a
light in a room that no one’s in (I’m sure
I annoy them, too). Between my par-
ents and l, as they indoctrinate me with

Christianity (as they have since I gained V

sentience). And between my professors
and l, as I try to raise my grade and they,
I’m tempted to say, don’t do that. But
where’s the love, y’know? How do I be
myself without rubbing others the wrong
way? How do you do that? I think that
we should turn off the voice in our head
that neatly judges and categorizes others
according to our perceptions of them. I
must admit, Jesus (supposing he exist-
ed) said it best: “Judge not, lest you be
judged.” I don’t wanna bejudged.

Truth. I’m in constant pursuit. Dur-
ing study breaks, I like to force myself
to read Jesus’ words from the Bible. If
he was, as all of the Western world be-
lieves, the truth teller incarnate, then all
I’d like to do is drop out of college and
see what was on his mind. What’s your
truth? Facebook? Twitter? Netﬁix? I
think we’re in an age of constant nihilism
in which nothing touches bottom. We
are constantly moving or doing, texting
or calling, emailing or Skyping, reading
or writing, studying or home working,
eating or sleeping, exercising or fornicat-
ing, practicing or competing, rehearsing
or performing, the list goes on. Where
does it end? Where does our treasure lie?
Granted that I’m judging you, the reader,
permit me to do so if it makes you reflect
on your circumstances, some of which
may have been listed above.

Beauty. We worship it. Those who
have it skyrocket from Potential New
Member to Kappa Kappa Gamma or Phi
Delta Theta (or to another one; you’re
beautiful too). _But don’t you agree (to
some extent)? May I remind you where
true beauty lies? Inside, yes. As hard as
it is for me to look past her physical ap-
pearance, I find that the uglier she is on
the outside, the more utterly breathtaking
she is on the inside, behind a misfortune
with which she was born. As I grow my
hair out, I ﬁnd myself adjusting it to the
parted WASP look once an hour or so.
Just to ﬁt in with the paradigm of male
hair here. And still, as I do so, I lose a bit
of myself. And he was handsome. Love
thyself.

Cosmos. The world is not to be plant-
ed with ﬂowerbeds, paved over, and
squeezed dry of every last drop of its
stunning ineffability. Rather, it ought
to be preserved. How are we doing so?
By carpooling (that is, one person is in
the car), in Chevy Suburbans to drive to
class? By unwrapping a Solo cup and
sending it to a wasteland ﬁve minutes
later? By getting a new green cup (with
the world map on it) from D-Hall for cof-
fee every day and sending it to the same
place? By getting water from the Co-Op
in those plastic cups, then throwing those
in the trash? Geez.

 

“Yes, please do.”

 

  

 

 

MONDAY,

APRIL 1, 2013

9 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

  ‘hi’ mix  
E! t

., ‘ff
‘-1’ vi

.-

  i

I

),

J

E.

- be a power shift in coll

Big East are

, By Hailey Hartley
srA F F w R I T ER , i
The college basketball season is wind-
ing down and we’re getting ready for

‘ 3 another major shift in the conferences.

But first we’ll see a new champion cut
down the nets and we’ll be facing the
 constant debate as toiwho was the best
3 conference in basketball this season. Ev-
ery conference’s image is marred by a
black sheep or two (or three "or four) but
on the whole, the Big East has dominat-
_ ed this post season. And isn’t that really

‘ what matters? ' -V
A The Big East is home to seven teams

that made it to the big dance,‘ three of

is strong and will get even better

As March Madness unfolds and many
traditional wowers play far into the tour-
nament, it is important to consider the
landscape of college basketball for 20 l 4
and beyond. Many ams will be chang-
ing conferences next ye and there will
basketball.
The catholic 7 (s “en teams in the Big

' East) will form a new Big East with But-
ler and Xavier. The movement ofteams
to new conferences is an exciting time
for fans, as we will get to witness new
matchups and better basketball in Wu-
eral. The crossing over of teams also
changes the liierarehy of college basket-
ball, and I believe next season the ACC

I‘, will surpass other power conferences
like the Big East and Big Ten as the best

vorites going into t
from Louisville‘—‘o'f co

number one seed‘

ment, and on ;and lumber-I one team

conference in basketball.

The /\("C is already a strong basket-
ball conference. This season we saw two
number two seeds come out ofthe AC C .
in Duke and Miami. Also, UNC. an eight
seed in this year‘s tournament, is alw" '
a threat to make a run in the tournament.
These three teams form a core for AC C
basketball. Anytime these teams face off
it is must see TV. When you consider
teams like NC State, Florida State, Vir-
ginia. and Georgia Tech, strong teams in
the ACC can never afford to take a game
off.

Other than the Pac-l2, which has I5
national championships due to the dy-
nasty of UCLA, the ACC has the most
national championships in basketball

to ‘the. tourna- _,i V

the favorite by many. to be -the last team ’
 standing at the,_end,‘and while its not -al
- creative pick,-it’__s deﬁnitely a safe oneto.
‘ » make. ‘T hey ‘have a tough testiintheir
“rematch against Duke to make'it‘.t0' the
‘rial ‘ Fou_r,,i but they have been-_.beating_'
ugh teams allyear. This _is "theio_ppor- .
‘ tunitythat theyvvill have to take full ad-
 ‘vantage of, and if theyldo, ‘will unques-
, pg ‘tionably be the favorites going into

the
Final Four. C i "

The Big East really is the most well
rounded conference in the nation.

-They’re not only well represented in the ‘

with 12. Teams like Duke and UNC can
always be expected to compete for a
national championship y tr in and year
out. The Big Ten and 13‘ lzast trail be-
hind with l0 championships apiece.
What makes the ACC truly the best
conference in basketball is their future
outlook. In 2()l3. Notre Dame, Pitts-
burgh and Syracuse will join the confer-
ence. This is a huge addition and will
make the conference even stronger. S
aeuse proved this year that it is a cham-
pionship caliber team. one that will com-
pete ﬁercely with the likes of Duke and
Miami. Notre Dame and Pitt are teams
that will pose as a challenge to any top
25 team. Best of all, however, is Louis-
ville, who will be joining the conference

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY STORE

UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS

need more

CASH FOR SPRING BREAK?

Fz'm'.r/yea’ excmzr? Before A/9ecza’z'77g /.20/726,
brzﬂgj/our books to #96 E/rod C ommom Atrium

(Walk away with up to 50% of the new price in CASH.)

5. the national champ, ns p.

tournament, buttheyfre doing well in it.
While the ‘ tournatnent doesn’t. necessar-

,ily represent the overall isiuccessfulness
M of a team or coirferenc

A '_t’s what mat-
ters when it co:

By Kyle Jaeger

STAFF WRITER
in 2014. The Elite 8 matchup between
Duke and Louisville is a preview ofthe
future strength of the conference, and
guarantees that an ACC team (in 2014)
will make the Final Four. Louisville is
the number one overall team in the tour-
nament, and Syracuse has reached the
Final Fou When you add these two su-
per pt rs to alist that alread, includes
UNC, Duke, Miami, and NC State, the
ACC becomes the best conference in

basketball, and a nightmare for out of

conference opponents.

CASH for your books!

Help W&L provide more used, lower priced books for future terms.

Buyback will be available in the Elrod Commons Atrium for 8 days!

Thursday & Friday, April 4 & 5. . . . . . . . .
Saturday, April 6. . . . . . . . . . .
Mondaythru Friday, April 8 —

12.

9 a.m. e 6 p.m.
 10a.m.—4p.m.
9 a.m. ——6p.m.

 

o it,—winning A

 

1o ‘- THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2013

sports

   

in the numbers

3

Brittney Griner became the first woman with three dunks in

a game. She slameed three hoem in Baylor’s game versus

Florida State in the NCAA Tournament. Baylor won 85-47.

11

The number of matches in a row that No. 2 Maria Sharapova ‘

has lost to No. 1 Serena Williams, a streak that has lasted.

over ten years. Williams bested Sharapova on Saturday in

the Sony Open 4-6, 6-3, 6-0.

31,419

The career points total for Wilt Chamberlain. Chamberlain

was fourth on the NBA all-time points list until Kobe Bryant

surpassed the total on Saturday. Topping the all-time list is

Kareem Abdul-Jabbar with over 38,000 points scored.

soapbox

“I have been so fortunate and blessed in
my life, and an opportunity to lead one of
the greatest programs in college basketball

history is a once-in—a—lifetime. ”

-slnvaAlfordafterslgnlng1nbecomeUclA’srIowhead

baslratbalIooachonSauirtlqy.Afawdqlsearllorheslmed
a10yaardealwlu1NewModoo,but|smlmlnbuyhlmself
otrtofthocontraet.UOLAwlllnothelphlmwllhthobI1yout,

fmmSl.oom

“The bones 6 inches out of his leg and
all he’s yelling is, ‘Win the game, win the
game’. /’ve not seen that in my life... Pretty

special young man.”

-LoulsvIlleheadbaskatbaIlooachRlolrPltlnoabout¢uard
Kevin llhra. Warabrokahlslowarleglntwospotsln
Sundqy'sNcMToumamentpmobetwaenloulsvllloand
Dule. Loulsvlllewantontowlntheﬁme85-63.

Senior Hayden

hlete o theek

 

Baseball

White won
his 13th
consecutive
tennisvmatch
on Sunday.

— White

defeated
Robert
Kjellberg

to help
Washington
and Lee defeat
No. 16 North
Carolina

 Wesleyan 7-2.

 

vs. Eastern Mennonite 4 pm

Womerfs lax takes

two, im

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

9%’

~«_

Junior Margaret Klein looks to shoot in the General’s victory

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Men lose  
ranked Hornets in OT   "

By Leigh Dannhauser
STAFF warren

The men’s lacrosse team fell in overtime
versus Lynchburg last Wednesday, in a re-
match of last year’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference ﬁnals.

The Generals took a 4-0 lead over the eighth-
ranked Hornets in the second quarter thanks to
two goals from senior Mac Means. After ju-
nior Joe Wood’s second goal ofthe night with
8:26 remaining in the third quarter the Gener-
als led 7-1. ' .

The Hornets worked their way back into the
game by the end of third quarter, closing the
gap to 8-3.

Senior Joe LaSala takes the ball away from the Viginia Wesleyan offense

Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Tuesday

 
 

Hﬁl

Wednesday

vs Averett 3 pm

Lynchburg then scored ﬁve unanswered
goals in the fourth quarter to force the game
into overtime where they were able to keep
the Generals at bay and earn the victory.

The Generals were able to come back from
the tough loss when they defeated" Virginia
Wesleyan 16-11 on Saturday.

Washington and Lee was losing 3-1 early in
the game ‘before scoring six unanswered goals
over the ﬁrst and second quarters.

The Generals took a 9-5 lead into the half
that they never relinquished. The Marlins
staged a late comeback with a 4-0 run in the

  

ah- ‘.E;

Thursday

proves to 5-6

The women’s lacrosse team took two big ODAC
wins this week when they beat previously undefeated
Randolph-Macon 13-7 on Tuesday and Lynchburg 12-
10 on Saturday in overtime. ‘

The Generals started off their. week with a strong
win over Randolph-Macon on Tuesday. They started
off quickly and scored three unanswered goals by Carly.
 Taglienti, Margaret Klein, and Katie Hagen. Meade

 Brewster had three goals and one assist. The team was
A‘ successful on over 75% of their clear attempts and had
14 draw controls. Before their loss to W&L, the Yellow
Jackets were 8-0, 3-0 ODAC.

On Saturday the Generals took on longtime rivals
Lynchburg. The Generals went back and forth with the
Hornets exchanging goals. Lynchburg was able to tie
things up at ten all when they scored what would be
their final goal with 36 seconds left in the second half.
Taglienti and Annie Murphy both added scores in over-
time, and Cara Mulligan’s two saves were enough to
preserve the Generals lead. Klein had a big game with
four goals, four ground balls, and three caused turnovers
for the Generals.

The team returns to the ﬁeld on Wednesday, April
3rd, when they travel to Shenandoah for a game under
the lights at 7 p.m.

 
  

against Lynchburg.

fourth quarter but the Generals scored two
goals of their own take control and seal the
victory.

The game was a team elfort, with seven

Generals scoring two goals each. Means, fel-‘

low senior Luke Heinsohn, juniors Jack Re-
uter and Tim Werner, and sophomores Cam-
eron Dabir, Garrett Paglia, and Tyler Goldman
each tallied two goals.

The Generals take the field next when they
host ODAC opponent Bridgewater on April 3
at 7pm.

on Wednesday.

  

Saturday

  
 
   
    
 
     
       
       
      
 
   
   
 
    
  
 

 
    

Men's Lacrosse

vs Bridgewater 7 pm

women’s Lacrosse

at Shenandoah 7 pm

Riding

ODAC Championships

. .

 

