   

 

l
'.
i
.
l.
;.

 

 

A o
:(_~z,.75S

V.

e57.
Illa

h

0--

‘? .0" ‘ii’   ‘ll‘*at»ﬁsh1($/érb)

, . « SPORTS/pagel9‘

acpamdwei horizons '

Six Generals share their abroad
experiences and beststories.

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2 0 13

ODK celebrates

By Graham Colton
HEAD COPY EDITOR

 
  
   

t

On Founders’ Day last Friday in Lee
Chapel, 24 Washington and Lee juniors
and seniors, seven Law School students
and four honorary initiates were in-
ducted, or “tapped,” into Omicron Delta
Kappa (ODK), the national leadership
honor society founded here at W&L in
l9l4.

Dr. Andrew H. Delbanco, Director of
American Studies and Julian Clarence
Levi Professor in the Humanities at Co-
lumbia University, spoke at the event. ’

Author of the 2012 book “College:
What It Was, Is and Should Be,” Delban-
co presented a speech entitled, “What is
College For?”

In light of the mass media’s recent
characterization of college as a bad in-
vestment, Delbanco endorsed college as
a venue for maturity, diversity, argument
and, most importantly, change.

College is a place where young adults
should “take time for reflection, self-dis-
covery, contemplation," Delbanco said.

“We want to be a society where you
aren’t told who you are, and are not con-
strained by the circumstances of your
birth; that you have something to say
about who you will be in the world,” said

   WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY - -  - 

° THE RING-TUM PHI.

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXVll,NUMBER12

Delbanco.

College is also a place of diversity
of not only gender and race, but also of
thought and character. in addition to
learning “vertically” from professors,
students can learn “horizontally” from
their peers, said Delbanco.

Third, Delbanco said. collegians
ought to learn how to engage one an-
other in rational, yet civil discourse, all
the while listening with discernment
and tolerance. “The college classroom,”
Delbanco said, “is the best rehearsal
place for democracy that we have yet
invented.”

Lastly, college should never lose its
ability to change one‘s mind. “Most of
all,” said Delbanco, “the classroom is a
place where you can walk into the room
with one point of view and walk out with
another, or at least with some productive
doubt of what you were sure of when
you walked in.”

If this can be said of any college, it
can be said of W&L, according to Del-
banco. At W&L, “there is an incendiary
capacity in every teacher and a ﬂamma-
bility in every student,” Delbanco said.

It is this ﬂammability to which stu-

ATHENA CAO) photographer

§-u I\>M:.u¢.v.xu .
, l
: ' I

dents strive, yet must always try to at-
tain. (

“It doesn’t matter what the subject
is. Sometimes the sparks will ﬂy and the
students will catch ﬁre,” Delbanco said.
“Other times it’s like you’re pouring wa-
ter down the proverbial well or talking

into the void. it’s as if there is a third
force in the room that makes the decision
about whether the student will catch ﬁre
or not. it’s a mystery.”

Delbanco’s speech was followed by
remarks from Wayde Marsh ’l3, Presi-
dent of the ODK Alpha Circle, and the
Tapping oflnitiates.

Founders’ Day occurs annually on
the birthday of Robert E. Lee, W&L’s
President from 1865 to 1870. ODK rec-
ognizes achievement in scholarship, ath-
letics, campus or community service, so-
cial and religious activities and campus
government, journalism, speech and the
mass media and creative and performing
arts.

The ODK honorary inductees are
Loranne Ausley. of Tallahassee, Fla.,
James J. Livesay of Houston and Mark
H. Grunewald and Pamela K. Luecke of
Lexington.

personal learning

CLASS OF 2013

Kendré Simone Barnes (Omaha, Neb.); Alicia
Owen Bishop (Jacksonville. Fla. ); Megan Elizabeth
Bock (Holnidel, ,N.J.).' Samuel Lee Brett (Raleigh.
N. C. ): Elizabetl1_Rebeeea Engel (Lexington. Ky.):
Kerriann Elise Laz/bae/2 (lW(’ll’l1II‘/‘((_).', Pa): Andrew
Clzanning Martin (Midlotliian. Va.).' Brett L. A/lurray
(Lookout Mountain, Tenn.).' Nathaniel Wilson
Reisinger (Urbana, Ohio): Betlianj‘ Anne Revnola's
(Timonizim, Mcl.),' Eric Robert Rosato (Cortland.
N. Y): Kelly Mae Ross (Endieott. N. Y); Emily S/in
(San Jose, Cali_'f.'),' Kathr_)'n DeArmon Stewart
(Charlotte, N. C. )5 Robert Grifﬁn Vestal (Memphis.
Tenn. ): and Isaac Daniel Webb (Portland. Maine).

( ‘LASS 01*‘ 201 -1

Emilia Rose DiGiovanni (Franklin. Tenn. ).' Nicole
Samara Gzinawansa (Portsmouth, -Va.): Morgan
Elizabeth Luttig (Lake Forest, _[ll.); Annelise A.
Madison (Roea, Neb.).' Eric M. Shaman (Black
Mountain. N. C . ); Jake Elijah Strz/ebing (Amherst,
N. Y.): Alvin George Thomas (Sko/tie. Ill);
and - Victoria Hart Van Natten (Towson, Mil).

limv (?L.»\ss 014‘ 201:;

LutlierR. Aslzwortli ll (Meelianiesville. Va. ): Douglas L.
Dzia (Morris Plains, N../.).' Kyle R. Hos/ner (Brighton.
C0l_o._); Alexander‘ M. S1./gzda (Old Greenwich,
Conn); and Alan James Waiger (Buena Vista. Va. ).

LAW’ CLASS OF 201-}
Joseph Tyler Black (Orinda, Calif ) and Thomas L.

Short (Lexington, Va.).

Pre-meds go international

By Krysta Huber
STA FF WRITER

Several Washington and Lee students
returned to campus after studying abroad
in Scotland during the fall term. Applica-
tions are already being accepted for next
year’s fall term abroad program at St.
Andrews.

Although the program is open to non-
science majors, the partnership between
W&L and St. Andrews was created with
W&L students interested in the sciences
and health professions in mind. It is one
of the few study abroad programs in
which pre-med students can participate.

According to wlu.edu, pre-med stu-
dents are able to participate in a special
seminar taught by a member of the St.
Andrews Medical Faculty. The seminar
includes visits to hospitals and clinics in
the area. ,

The partnership allows students on
the science and pre-med tracks to receive
a grade toward their W&L transcripts in
the classes that they take abroad. How-
ever, non-science courses only receive
course credit and grades are not included
on a student’s W&L transcript.

Many science majors and pre-med
students choose this study abroad op-
tion, but understand that it comes with a
price. According to junior Kelsey With-
erspoon, the St. Andrews program is
quite demanding academically.

“You have to sacriﬁce a lot of the
experiences that other study abroad stu-
dents have,” said Witherspoon. “You are
not having the same abroad experience
as your friends who are in other pro-
grams because the emphasis ofthis pro-
gram is on the study.”

Other participants echoed With-
erspoon’s sentiment in terms of their
academic experiences at St. Andrews.
Sophomore Katie Price and Junior Da-
vid Hsu said that the course design was

much more independent at St. Andrews,
with very few or no assessments before
the ﬁnal exam.

“The biggest challenge academically
was being disciplined with yourself to
study the material even though there
were no assessments until ﬁnal exams,”
said Hsu. “In the European academic
system, it isn’t uncommon for the ﬁnal
exam to be worth 60 or 70 percent ofthe
entire class.”

Sophomore Jordan Edgren also said
that she felt the courses at St. Andrews
required a lot more independent learning
and that the ﬁnal exam strongly indicat-
ed your overall grade in the course.

However, Edgren said that such a
class structure did not apply to the or-
ganic‘ chemistry class she took. The or-

. ganic chemistry course was essentially a

W&L class in a different setting.

“Organic chemistry was structured
more like a W&L class in that only W&L
students were enrolled and we were
taught by one professor for the entire
term,” Edgren said.

Edgren added that her other courses
frequently changed professors — some-
times with ‘a different professor for ev-
ery lecture - so that students were taught
by someone who specialized in a given
topic.

Although students found themselves
busy with school, they did have time to
get involved in extracurricular activities
at St. Andrews and travel to other parts
of Europe.

Hsu said that his favorite experience
was the club sports program on the St.
Andrews campus. Because St. Andrews
is relatively larger than W&L, Hsu said
that there were many different sport op-
tions available at all levels of competi-
tion.

  
   

Price said that her favorite memory
of studying abroad was the traveling
she did all over Europe. Following their
organic chemistry midterm, a group of
students spent the weekend in Paris. “It
was probably one of the best trips of my
life,” she said.

free time studying in Europe.

Every student who chose this option
strongly encouraged it for pre-med stu-
dents wishing to travel abroad.

Hsu said, “I highly recommend this
program as a last chance to see the rest
of the world before spending the next de-
cade of your life in medical school and

&L students Ellie Stoops, Hannah Crowder, Katie Price and helle Ponder visit Paris during thei

residency.”

Applications including a $50 non-
refundable application fee for Fall 2013
are due no later than Feb. 15 to The Cen-
ter for International Education.

photo courtesy of Katie Price

”A&'L / page 6

 

   

.. ‘-JERSSTY
"flirt 

 

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

JAN 2 4 2013

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

 

Rememberin

By Mark Gensburg
GUEST wn ITER

Civil rights "legend Martin Luther
King Jr., in the midst of one of his tough-
est protest campaigns, almost came to
give a speech at the very place where
Robert E. Lee is buried, Washington &
Lee University.

In 1961, Associate Professor of The-
ology Dr. Lou Hodges took two vans full
of students over the Blue Ridge Moun-
tains to Lynchburg to watch a speech of
Martin Luther King Jr. Not long after
that, these students asked King to lead a
seminar on Christian ideals at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Yet the University Christian Associa-
tion (UCA), which was in charge of the
seminar and of which Hodges was the
faculty advisor, decided on a 7-2 deci-
sion to ﬁrst seek the formal approval of
the Board of Trustees to invite King.

Much to the dismay of Hodges and
the UCA, the Board of Trustees denied
the group permission to invite him.
With no justiﬁcation for its decision, the
board quickly came under ﬁre from both
the faculty and students alike. And Dr.
Hodges led the charge.

Quoted in the Oct. 20, 1961 issue of
the Ring-tum Phi, Hodges said, “The
board gave us an answer, but no excuse.”

Soon a ﬁrestonn of contempt aimed
at the Board» of Trustees swept across
‘campus. The decision was decried in ﬁve
different issues of the Ring-tum Phi and
in a survey presented on Oct. 27, 1961,
no student on campus could be found
who supported the board’s apparently
arbitrary decision.

The controversy spread and was
headline news in local papers as far
away as Nova Scotia. Closer to home,
it was publicized in the Roanoke Times
and Virginia Inquirer.

The school and its reputation, it
seemed, was being dragged through the
mud. Critics from inside and out called
the decision to prevent Dr. King from
speaking as a decision to restrict the
students’ “freedom of inquiry.” Many
charged that the board was politicizing
the students’ education and the Ring-tum
Phi cried that the decision violated the
students’ “liberty of mind.”

It was at this point that Hodges was
summoned to speak privately with Fred

g a fight for free speech

Cole, President of the University.

“Well this will be the dismissal of
me,” Hodges recalled in a recent inter-
view. “I had only been on for one year. I
thought that I would be ﬁred.”

Hodges was not ﬁred. In fact, he
went ‘on to get tenure and teach at W&L
for another four decades. He pioneered
W&L’s ethics-in-the-professions series,
which spawned the journalism ethics
chair that he held until retiring 10 years
ago. He came to be known nationally as
one of the pioneers of journalism ethics
education. ,

President Cole was not even upset
with the controversy the King invitation
had caused, said Hodges, who turns 80
this month.

“Invitations of speakers should never
need to go to the Board of Trustees,”
Hodges recalled President Cole saying.

“A new rule was created which dealt
with the board and got it ﬁxed that the
board would never again do what they
did to me.” I

p Eventually the controversy faded and
life on campus returned to normal. Yet,
Professor Hodges remained in contact
with Dr. King. He said he even received
a letter from King from the Birmingham
jail in 1963 — not the famous one King
wrote from that jail cell to moderate
white Birmingham ministers, criticizing
them for seeking patience from protest-
ers.

While the decision to prevent King
from speaking was never reversed, the
conﬂict resulted in the availability of
two new theology majors and a slew of
expanded freedoms for the Department
of Religious Studies.

Although the Board of Trustees nev-
er released a reason for their decision,
Hodges suspects that it was based in ra-
cial prejudices.

“The group seemed to think ‘Negro’
speakers were inferior to white people,”
he said.

That is only his hypothesis. But this is
a fact he could utter with a smile on his
face: “Now faculty can invite whomever
they want.”

Lee-Jackson D

By Yejean Kim 7 .
STA F F w R I T E R

This past weekend, Lee-Jackson Day
was held by The Stonewall Brigade
Camp, Lexington’s branch of the Sons
of Confederate Veterans. A celebration
of both Robert E. Lee and Thomas J.
“Stonewall” Jackson, the day was dedi-
cated to honoring both ﬁgures’ military
feats as well as their characters.

This year’s Lee-Jackson day will see
the continuation of a controversy that
emerged in 2011, when Washington and
Lee’s Associate Professor of Russian

’ ATHENA”CAO'/iiliotrographer
\ \_ ‘ ,. , \

.2» ._‘

1

Anna Brodsky began to question the
traditional ﬂying of Confederacy-related
ﬂags for the holiday in Lexington. A pe-
tition protesting the ﬂags, bearing about
350 signatures of students and staff from
W&L, made its way to city council. The
petition’s front page, which was read to
city council by Professor Brodsky, stated
“For many of us, the Confederate ﬂag
symbolizes slavery, civil hatred, vio-
lence and state disunity.”

A ban on ﬂying any ﬂags but the

‘s

 

American ﬂag, the state ﬂag and a mu-
nicipal ﬂag was decreed by City Council
as a result ofthe petition, drawing the ire
of the holiday’s ardent supporters.
Brandon Dorsey, commander of
The Stonewall Brigade Camp, said that
“those who are most vehemently against
the ﬂags in Lexington are older, aﬂluent,
liberal, white people who have bought
into the notion that they are somehow
guilty of society’s ills and therefore must
discredit their family associations with

ay flags a tra

that past in order to cure past wrongs.”

This year, opposition to the decree
continued as ﬂag supporters protested
the ﬂag ban. F irst-year student and North
Carolina native Nicole Kasica, who wit-
nessed several protestors bearing Con-
federate and Confederacy-related ﬂags
downtown, said that “today the ﬂag sym-
bolizes Southern pride more than any-
thing else, but since it still has a negative
connotation, I definitely think there’s a
better way to express that pride.”

iti O D

However, the historical signiﬁcance
of ﬂying the ﬂags was also defended by
Dorsey.

“Flags are power icons of symbolism
and identity and most nearly everyone
would immediately associate the ﬂags
with the holiday, Lee and Jackson,” said
Dorsey. “Their purpose was to promote
the holiday in the same manner covering

an area with U.S. ﬂags does during the
4th ofJuly celebrations.”

 

  

 VAu

  

 

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

By Andrea Owen
STAF F WRITER
Stepping onto Traveller, many
Washington and Lee students may not
realize that they could be saving the
cost of an ignition interlock device.
Virginia’s»new DUI law, effective
last July, requires that ﬁrst-time DUI
offenders install this device that pro-
hibits them from operating their vehicle
if their BAC is over the legal limit4.08
percent for those 21 and over and .02
percent for those under 21. The device
will be installed for a minimum of=six
months and must be paid for entirely by
the offender.
However, in addition to the even

‘more serious threats of drunk driving,

driving under the inﬂuence could now
incur ﬁnes of over $200 for installa-
tion and $100 of monthly rental—not
including maintenance costs——as well
as the hassle of constantly needing to
blow into the device.

“This new law was designed to be
strict, in order to discourage people
from becoming repeat offenders,” said
DontBlowItVA.com, a website spon-
sored by Mothers Against Drunk Driv-
ing (MADD).

“I don’t think they are [aware of the
law],” said Officer Ron Condry of the
Lexington Police Department in re-
gards to W&L students. He explained,
however, that because W&L students
are smart in using Traveller and sober
drivers, the law might not have the
largest effect on them.

“I don’t think it’s going to have as
big of an effect on the student body
as it will for the local popula-

tion,” Condry said. He explained,
though, that because Lexington bars
are a gathering place for people in sur-
rounding areas, drunk driving is an is-
sue for the community.

With the success that ignition inter-
lock devices have had in other states,
the effects that the new laws may have
in Virginia might create a safer envi-
ronment for students. According to

pdates DUI law

Even if drunk driving is not a large
issue on the W&L campus, it still ex-
ists, said Michael Young, Director of
W&L’s Public Safety Department.

“Drunk driving is still an issue,”
said Young. “It’s always going to be an
issue as long as we have vehicles and
people who drink.” Young said that
approximately 15 W&L students get
charged with DUls every year.

“Drunk driving is still an issue, ” said Young. “Its

always going to be an issue as long as we have ve-

hicles and people whodrink. ”
MICHAEL YOUNG, W&L Director of Public safeg

MADD, other states that adopted the
interlock device laws saw a 52 per-
cent decrease in alcohol-related deaths.
Studies “show that interlocks reduce
repeat drunk driving offenses by an
average of 67 percent,” according to
MADD,

Considering that one in three people
will be involvedin an alcohol-related
crash in their lifetime, these new laws
might have positive outcomes for the
Lexington communit .

By Randy Karlson
STAFF WRITER

The campus was abuzz with anticipa- l
’tion on Tuesday with the impending visit

of former Congressman and Presidential
nominee Ron Paul.

The monumental stop was the ﬁrst
for Paul on the beginning of his speak-
ing tour after his recent retirement from
politics. Paul spoke at LeevChapel after
his agent reached out to the W&L Con-
tact Committee about being the ﬁrst stop
on his tour. .

Paul has served many years in Con-
gress, beginning his career as a politician
in 1976 as the Republican representa-
tive from Texas’s 22nd District, when
he won a special election to replace a
former Congressman. He was defeated
in 1977, but ran again in 1979 and won
the seat back. He maintained his position
until 1984 when he stepped down and
decided to run for the U.S. Senate.

After Paul lost in his ﬁrst run for Sen-
ate, he stepped away from politics for a
few years. He reemerged into the politi-
cal scene in 1987 when he resigned from
the Republican Party and joined the little
known Libertarian Party in order to run
for President under his new affiliation.

Paul finished third in the popular vote
in the 1988 election with over 400,000
votes and brought national attentionto
the up-and-coming party. He decided
not to run in 1992, and instead endorsed
Republican Pat Buchanan. Paul stayed
away from the political scene until 1996
when he ran for Congress yet again, and
won in a difficult campaign.

Paul held this office until this year
when he retired from law making. Dur-
ing his tenure in his last stint in Congress
he ran for president in both 2008 and
2012 in the Republican Party primaries,
but he was not able to grab enough states
to gamer a nomination.

Greeted with a standing ovation in
Lee Chapel, Paul spoke mainly about
the current state of the American gov-
ernment, almost exclusively about the
troubles that are facing our policy mak-

ers today.

True to his nature, Paul focused
mainly on the aspect of law makers
that everyone seems to be criticizing:
the amount of truth they are telling. In
speciﬁc he said, “We need to bring the
Honor Code to Washington!”

ility is to not let poli-

ticians getaway with lying to us,” said
Paul. “This was followed by a criticism
of the job that we have done thus far. We
have politicians that continually lie to us,
and bend the truth, yet we continue to re-
elect them,” said Paul.

Along with the idea of receiving truth

“I think the penalties are as strict as
they should be,” said Young in speak-
ing about safety.

Condry told of a time when he had
to inform a young man’s parents that
their son had died in a drunk driving
accident. The boy had been a long-time
classmate of his daughter.

“l’ve had to do that,” he said. “I
don’t want to do that at all.”

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

By Hannah Howard
STAFF WRITER

The end of 20 1 2 did not mark the end
of the crisis in Mali over territory and
governmental power. The slow collapse
of state control that has occurred over the
last few years culminated in March 2012
with a military coup that ended a twenty-
year democratic rule.

Denis Kennedy, a Visiting Professor
of Global Politics at Washington and
Lee, said, “One of the true tragedies
is that, prior to the crisis, Mali was an
established democracy, one reasonably
well-regarded by human rights NGOS
for its press and political freedoms.”

The end of democracy in Mali is
proof of the incredibly uncertain times
that the state is currently operating in and
has been dealing with for the last year.
Despite the recent attention in the inter-
national scene, the tensions have been
brewing for quite some time.

Kennedy said, “The rebellion in the

north began as a Tuareg rebellion in Jan. '

2012; this is the latest in a series of rebel-
lions dating back to the colonial period.”

This rebellion was different than
those in the past because it was assisted
by other factors. According to Kennedy
there is no monocausal explanation.
BBC reports stated that the Tuaregs, a
nomadic tribe in the north of Mali, be-
gan an insurgency over land and culture
rights in the 1990s. Dubbed the National
Movement for the Liberation of Azawad
(MNLA), the Tuareg nationalists con-
tinue to seek independence for the north
of Mali.

The MNLA rebellion was aided in its
efforts during the 201 1 Libyan Civil War.
“What makes this rebellion different was
the inﬂux of armed and trained Tuaregs
who had served on the side of Gaddaﬁ
in the Libyan Civil War,” Kennedy said.
“This is the precipitating factor.”

The nationalist rebellion occurred
in conjunction with the rebellion of the
Islamist group, Ansar Dine. Ansar Dine

joined the Tuareg forces and is controlled

by a Tuareg rebel leader. According to
BBC, its goal is to impose Islamic law
across Mali. Ansar Dine is also linked
with al-Qaeda.

The addition of systemic factors,
such as colonial legacies and underde-
velopment, and internal factors, such as
unpopular leadership in the’ capital of
Bamako, only increased unrest.

Kennedy explained the timeline of
rebel control in Mali aﬁer the coup in
March. “By April, these groups con-
trolled the north; by June, the MNLA-
Ansar Dine alliance had fallen apart, and
by July Ansar Dine had taken control of
northern Mali,” said Kennedy.

Ansar Dine’s control of the northern
area of Mali has led to multiple human
rights violations. The lack of account-
ability for abuse on both sides escalated
the aready present ethnic "tensions, ac-
cording to Human Rights Watch. “The
Islamist groups have committed. ex-
ecutions, ﬂoggings and amputations
as punishment, recruited children into
their forces and destroyed religious and
cultural shrines,” according to—Human
Rights Watch.

Kennedy said, “Mali is a good ex-
ample of a ‘complex humanitarian emer-
gency’ - emergencies owing to multiple
causes, involving multiple actors and
compelling an international response.”

In an effort to regain state control
and alleviate human rights issues, the
government of Mali asked France to in-
tervene. Officials in Paris sent military
forces into Mali earlier this month.

According to BBC reports released on
Jan. 14, French troops were successful in
stopping the rebel forces from invading
Bamako. However, they are now faced
with the task of how to hold together the
dividing state.

“They had initial success with their
airstrikes, but the situation is already
showing signs of turning into a stale-
mate,” Kennedy added. “The interven-
tion was successful in preventing the fall
of Bamako — a success that we should not
understate - but retaking territory is go-
ing to be incredibly difficult.”

Oﬂicials are hoping to be able to see
some progress in the coming months.
“A critical priority will be to ensure that
military progress for the government
forces and their allies is rapidly followed
by humanitarian assistance and develop-
ment support,” BBC reported.

. Pul ne traions of honor

from our policy makers, Paul also spoke
ofthe individual liberties that we, as citi-
zens, receive. He believes that we should
receive all individual liberties that are
guaranteed to us in the Constitution, be-
cause the Constitution is the most impor-
tant document in our country, and should
be followed as such.

Paul said that the Constitution “is not
a living, breathing document,” and sim-
ply something that ‘has been laid out for
our society to use as guidelines.

Paul also spoke about the recent issue
with Lance Armstrong and the idea of

government intervention in athlete hear- ~

ings. He believes that the government
should not be spending their time on
athletes who use performance enhanc-
ing drugs, because, as he says, “almost
all Congressmen use drugs as well...
alcohol.”

Paul brought up some very contro-
versial points that have given him his
reputation as a politician thus far. Some
of those points included the abolition
of the Federal Reserve and the TSA, as
well as staying on the side of “freedom
of choice” in the marijuana legalization
issue that has been a hot topic since the
Nov. 6 elections.

Paul finished the night with criticiz-
ing the governmental system that is
now in place in our country. He stated

that “the system we have now is just not
working,” and “the evidence is clear that
the system is failing, which means that
we need a new system.” The new system
that he envisions is spearheaded by col-
lege students and young Americans like
ourselves.

The Contact Committee said that the
night was an absolute success consider-
ing it was the ﬁrst time in several years
that the Committee ﬁlled Lee Chapel.

The Committee also had a few words
to say about the congressman himself:
“The Congressman is extremely kind
and down-to-earth in-person. He in-
spired us at the dinner with him prior to
the event and I know he inspired a cha-
pel full of people during his speech.”

 

Twitter @berkysfood

am 2 at LEE lll

“Hands Down the Tastiest Truckstop in America”
- The Travel Channel, Most Extreme Truckstops

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EATBuffets.’

Daily Breakfast Bar Monday - Friday 6 am - 10:30 am
Saturday & Sunday 6 am - 1:30 pm
Daily Hot Bar Monday - Thursday 11 am - 10 pm
Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar All Week 10:30 am - 11 pm
Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Saturday Night Pork BBQ Buffet 5 pm - 10 pm
Sunday Baked Chicken & Pork Loin11 am - 9 pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Buffet 11 pm - 2 am

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 N. Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA 24450
540-463-3478
www.leehi.com See our menu online

E Find us on Face book

I

 

 
 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

M O N DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

opin

\

ions

 

State of the University: a note from the E.C.

By Steele Burrow
GUEST WRITER

Besides its commitment to the Honor
System, the Executive Committee has
committed itself to a number of other
initiatives this year with the goal of im-
proving campus life and bettering the
opportunities for the student body as
a whole. We have worked to address
pressing student concerns, such as wire-
less access, as well as to improve more
nuanced parts of the campus that will
have the greatest effect upon the under-
classmen.

Our most tangible accomplishment
during the fall term was the beginning
of upperclassmen brunches, which we
hope will become a regular tradition.
We helped to organize four last semes-
ter, most of which had an attendance of
about 400 students, and we plan to in-
crease the number held this term. They
began with a simple thought: add a Sun-
day brunch for those who are not ﬁrst
years, grant students a chance to catch
up with friends in a community din-
ing experience, and make the all-you-
can-eat meal available for the price of
a burger and shake at Kenney’s. With
coordination from the administration,
we have been able to adapt each from
student feedback, and we welcome other
thoughts or recommendations.

Technology has been another focus.
For about two years, it was hardly a se-
cret that wiﬁ on campus — particularly
with Macs — often fell short of stu-
dents’ needs. Disconnections occurred
randomly, and speed tended to dimin-
ish during times we needed it most, like
exam week. Through signiﬁcant coordi-
nation with ITS and the efforts of several
EC members, those issues are now large-
ly gone. Room for improvement on the
technology front will always exist, but
the major wireless problems have now

abated. This semester, we hope for more
improvement in the on-campus printing
options, with the possible addition of a
printer in the commons entryway, a con-
venient option for those on the way to
class.

Two other dimensions in which we
are currently engaged are housing and
mental health. A number of students
have had questions about the nature of
the proposals on upperclassmen housing
within the administration and the Board.
We will be publishing more details on
the speciﬁcs of those soon. An informa-
tional survey from the E.C. will also be
distributed within the next month, and
student feedback on that will be incred-
ibly helpful.

Regarding mental health, the EC has
worked with Active Minds to explore
additional resources on campus for those
challenged by stress, depression and
other conditions. We also are consider-
ing a proposal to add peer counselor sup-
port for students faced with a potential
Honor Violation. This change would add
a training program for a small group of
peer counselors who could offer help to
accused students as an optional addition
to Honor Advocates.

Closer to the honor-related business
ofthe E.C., we have considered the role
of the Honor System on campus from
several dimensions, and the concern has
arisen about limited student exposure to
it after their freshman year. Tests, papers
and ﬁnal exams certainly remind us of
the role we all play in the Honor Sys-
tem. But how often do we discuss the
broader context of it? After the ﬁrst year
Lee Chapel speech, how often do we
consider the larger institutional role of
the Honor System here on campus? Or
the role it has in shaping the lives and

 

careers of W&L alumni?

To encourage dialogue on this topic
beyond the classroom, we have ad-
dressed those questions three-fold. First
is a series of open talks and discussions
on honor in its various forms. The IFC
began a panel discussion for first year
men during winter term last year. This
semester we intend to repeat that, with
improvements to make it more interac-
tive. Further, we hope to partner with a
number of faculty to develop a more per-
manent group of professors and students
committed to dialogue on the Honor
System and organizing discussions,
speakers and programs that bridge the

 

    

topic of honor with other realms of cam-
pus, both academic and extracurricular.
Also in progress is a recommended
reading list to be published on the EC’s
website as a resource for those interested
in learning more about the history and
context of the Honor System and vari-
ous forms of its principles. We plan to
include a variety of subjects, both ﬁction
and nonﬁction. Recommendations and
selections will be sought over the next
six to eight weeks, with the ﬁnal product
completed by Spring Break.
The third project focuses speciﬁcally
on the history of the Honor System here
on campus. Building upon past research,

archives, and articles, we plan to produce

a comprehensive history of ‘the Honor
System that can be read and downloaded
online. From Robert E. Lee’s earliest
conception to the interpretations by stu-
dent generations from World War I to
today, we hardly lack material.

A W&L student wrote in a newspa-
per column from l9l9 that, “The Honor
System in operation is a high tribute to
the fundamental sense of honor in hu-
man nature, but a higher one to the at-
mosphere of Washington and Lee.” We
hope to continue in that spirit and tradi-
tion.

Hacktivism: heroism or terrorism?

ByA|lie Weiss
DESIGN EDITOR

It is known asa new frontier, charac-
terized by unruly vigilantes, gold mines,
thievery, and dubious governance. No,

it’s not the backdrop to a John Wayne
movie. Today’s picture of the Wild
West takes place on a different kind of

WASHINGION AND I1-I UNTVERSTFY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

EDITOR IN CHIEF
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

HEAD COPY EDITOR
DESIGN EDITOR
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

GUEST WRITERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

HEAD OF DISTRIBUTION

, ANDREA OWEN

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING-
TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community for
students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that
prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM PHI is a
member of The Media Board, which can be reached at
mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise independent.THE
RING—TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING—TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 453-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY

ALLIE WEISS

CYNTHIA LAM .
LEIGH DANNHAUSER
GRAHAM COLTON

ALLIE WEISS

SARA J. KORASH-SNCHIFF

HENDLEY BADCOCK
LINDSEY BURKE
CAROLINE HAMP
HAILEY HARTLEY
HANNAH HOWARD
KRYSTA HUBER .
RANDY KARLSON
YEJEAN KIM

BAILEY RUSSELL
JOSH WHITE
YATES WILBURN

STEELE BURROW
MARK GENSBURG

DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS

screenﬁcomputers.

Hacktivism is a form of protest done
via computers in order to make a politi-
cal statement. The earliest known act of
hacktivism occurred in I989, when the
WANK worm ﬁrst appeared in objection
to nuclear killers. The worm, believed
to have been created by two Australian
students of Julian Assange, invaded

_ the computer network used by NASA

and the US Department of Energy just
as a spacecraft" powered by plutonium
was about to be launched. Protestors
believed that the risk'of the spacecraft’
combusting, thus spilling the plutonium
and resulting in the death of all those
near the launch site, was unacceptable.
The worm caused the lyrics of a popular
Australian band to appear on computer
screens which read, “You talk of times
of peace for all, and then prepare for
war.”

Since then, hacktivism has been ram-
pant in countries all over the world. In
1999, a group called the Hong Kong
Blondes launched 228 cyber-attacks
against the Chinese government in
protest to what they called unfair busi-
ness practices with America which
trampled upon human rights. In 2007,
Estonian organizations were victims of
cyber-attacks believed to be the result
of the country’s actions in relocating the
Bronze Soldierof Tallinn and exhum-
ing Soviet soldiers’ remains; Russians,
obviously unhappy with the Estonian
government, flooded the computers

‘of these organizations so that use

was next to impossible. And in late
2012, a group calling themselves the
“Cutting Sword of Justice” wiped

clean the hard drives of three quar-

ters of Saudi Aramco’s computers,

replacing the data with an image of
a burning American ﬂag, in order to

speak out against oil policies in the

Middle East.

. The issue of hacktivism has
come to the foreground of American
news once again, as Aaron Swartz,
the man responsible for download-
ing and distributing millions of arti-
cles from J STOR, attempting to
give people free access to
the digital library’s
material, killed
himself
on
Janu-

313’

11th.

As
computer
hacking
constitutes
a felony re-

gardless of the hacker’s political agenda,
Swartz was looking at decades of prison
time. ,

The news of Swartz’s death has once
again brought about the question of
whether or not hacktivism is an essen-
tially moral act. Swartz believed that
academic research should be made pub-
licly available, and that charging inter-
ested parties a fee would only inhibit our
progress as a species. Those who rallied
around him believed in the nobility of
his ideas, painting him as something of
a hero.

Similarly, Julian Assange has been
construed as a human rights activist,
though he is now wanted by govern-
ments of Britain, Sweden, and the Unit-
ed States. The founder of WikiLeaks has
been accused of stealing U.S. military
documents, and is living as a free man
only because he was granted asylum by
the government of Ecuador. Meanwhile,
in 2011, his website was nominated for a
Nobel Peace Prize because, according to
one Norwegian legislator, “WikiLeaks
wants to make governments account-
able for their ac- tions and that
contributes to
peace.”

So what
is the ac-
tual moral
nature of

if

hacktivism? Is it a necessary guardian of
human rights, or is it the shadowy under-
taking of online-terrorists?

In my opinion, hacktivism is today’s
version of the vigilante antics ofthe Old
West. Sometimes, these cyber-cowboys
get a little too high on their horses~cer-
tainly, attacks on foreign governments
for the sake of individual vendettas are
not heroic. But for the most part, I think
that the Norwegian lawman was right.
Hacktivism is simply the modem-day
version of protest, much like the March
on Washington or the Orange Revolu-
tion. It is the citizens’ way of holding
their government accountable for the
general wellbeing of its people. In a
world that functions by use of the in-
ternet, political statements made online
are merely the logical way of making
those in power pay attention. While not
all acts are reasonable—Swartz’s ideol-
ogy may have been honorable, though
it seems that he did not take capitalism
into considerationgl believe that the at-
titude which causes one to defend their
beliefs and to stick up for the oppressed
is what constitutes America’s greatness.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

3 0 THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 21,2013

 

Where do we go from here?

Graham Cohen and Yates Wilburrz give their take on the recent tragedies, and the future of gun control in America _

Taking aim at gun control

By Yates Wilburn
STAFF warren

The recent mass shootings in Aurora,
Colorado and Newtown, Conn. have
once again brought gun ownership into
the limelight of our political discussion.
As has already been proven, simply pro-
hibiting weapons doesn’t work. Hand-
gun bans in Chicago and Washington
D.C. were in place for nearly 40 years
before being ruled unconstitutional, and
had little to no demonstrable effect on
those cities’ murder rates or the amount
of crimes in which a gun was used. Even
ifone pointed to the rapid drop in violent
crime nationally through the 1990s and
claimed that these handgun bans were
responsible, one would still have to ex-
plain why it took nearly two decades for
them to have any noticeable impact. Fur-
thermore, the same person would have
to explain why there are more guns in
the hands of more Americans today than
at any time in history (not to mention
the highest rate of gun ownership since
2001), and yet murders involving guns
nationally are at their lowest since 1981,
while robberies and assaults involving
guns are at their lowest rates since 2004.

Mexico’s gun laws prohibit carry-
ing ﬁrearms outside the home, allowing
only for certain guns to beikept inside
the home, and have resulted in only one
govemment-run store in Mexico City
being; authorized to-s‘ell ﬁrearms to the
entire-population. On top of this, the pro-
cedure to acquire a ﬁrearm makes ours
look like a cakewalk. The result? A 2012
murder rate of 16.9 per l00,000—com-

.‘x

isi>oNso1§Eo, BY, s_T  if

AGAINST RQCKBRIDCE AREA".

HUNGER (SARAH) 

pared with 4.2 in the US. Many reading
this will claim comparing Mexico to the
United States as unfair, but l’ve never
heard the argument made that banning
ﬁrearms works “in certain places.” ,

Am 1 making the claim ‘that more
guns or fewer laws will result in less
crime? Ofcourse not. I am simply show-
ing that the common liberal argument
that-more guns results in less crime is
just as ﬂawed. Neither side has the evi-
dence to prove causation. Now if one
were to make the claim more guns in the
hands ofcriminals results in more crime,
you would hear no disagreement from
me or the National Rifle Association for
that matter.

Criminals don’t get their guns through
legal avenues; they don’t walk into a gun
store and give up when they fail a back-
ground check. Banning gun sales does
one thing: it keeps guns out ofthe hands
of law-abiding citizens. It does nothing
to stop criminals from getting them. 1
am by no means saying that we should
allow anyone anywhere to purchase any

r gun with zero accountability, that’s fool-

ish and irresponsible. There are certainly
several things that can be done (closing
the gun show loophole, stricter account-
ability on private sales) to make the sale
of ﬁrearms in this country safer. But to
say that simply banning the purchase
of all ﬁrearms (or just assault weapons
for that matter) by law-abiding citizens
is the answer to all of our problems is
equally foolish and naive. A horrifying

l

*8:OO l’.M. - 930 Em. A I

1"“:

FRIDAY, JANUARY 25  1

Eoooksv OPEN Ar 7:30 PM ' S

if *T1c1<E'rsIAvA1LA13LE._EQR $108, 

IN COMMONS .;-?  .-

1/21 - 1/25, ANDAT EVEN

 Err sTu'r5i>’EN'rs.woiL1L1): Like To
ENTER A TEAM, CONTACT r>ER1_<Y’ H
GIVEN AT ClVENS13@MAlL wtu.,EDu. ‘_ ’

lack of even the most basic gun knowl-
edge is equally frustrating.

But let’s give the liberal argument the
beneﬁt ofthe doubt. Let’s say we plug up
the gun-show loophole, ban privatesales
outright, force everyone purchasing a
gun to take a polygraph test and ban the
purchase of all automatic ﬁrearms (as
opposed to those made after 1986, as is
the case now). While we’re at it, why not
ban assault weapons and high capacity
magazines? That should work, right?
Wrong. The Columbine High School
massacre happened ﬁve years into the
ﬁrst ban. High capacity mags were cov-
ered under that ban as well, so the shoot-
ers brought a lot of smaller mags. Oh,
bonus fact, none of the weapons they
used were automatic. Straw-man pur-
chasers (like sending a 21-year-old to
get a teen booze) purchased all of those
guns legally under the assault weapons
ban. The only weapon the shooters could
not have obtained easily under the cir-
cumstances outlined above would have
been their TEC-9, acquired by a straw
man at a gun show. For the others, po-
lice wouldn’t have known any laws were
broken until the shooters actually started
their killing spree; the inherent problem
with simply throwing more laws at the
problem.

‘ So under a ban, what is considered an
assault weapon according to Congress?

1'Tl_iI!;5_I liq

 

  

S tinue to" be employed to devastat-
- ing effect.) ,, Instead, 1 simplylargue
*thatjone’s‘ ‘mind, in addition to one’s

‘ good meiitai health, thenthere would
 fa:r‘gfevs:er horrors such as the‘ one
that  this article. ‘

1. Semiautomatic riﬂes able to
accept a detachable magazine
and two or more of he
following:

-Folding or telescoping stock
-Pistol grip

-Bayonet mount
-A ﬂash suppressor, or a barrel
designed to accept one

-Grenade launcher

2. Certain types of pistols and
shotguns

Newsﬂash: the shooter in the New-
town, Conn. shooting could have just
as easily carried out his rampage with
weapons that featured only one of
those items, that being a pistol grip.
The only thing that would have put
these weapons (owned by his mother
in a classic example of straw-man pur-
chase) in violation ofa ban would have
been their ﬂash suppressors, something
he could have easily done without for
his purposes.

The point here is this: Even if you
ban all private gun ownership, orjust
concealed carry, criminals and psycho-
paths will still get the weapons they
want to commit their atrocious acts.
Think of all the things that are totally
banned in this country: Cuban cigars,

er for against 
e 1 think that guns,

opinions

pot, heroine, cocaine, crystal meth, LSD,
ecstasy, mushrooms, prostimtion and
hiring an illegal immigrant. Despite be-
ing banned under the threat of stiff legal
penalties, they all crowd the headlines
and impact our lives. So many activists,
politicians and special interest groups
advocate for the legalization of several
of these activities, pointing to the utter
failure of the prohibition of alcohol as
proof that prohibition not only doesn’t
work, but makes the problem worse. And
yet, when many of these same people are
asked what they think about gun control,
they fall on the exact opposite side of the
discussion. I hope these people will read
this and gain another point of view.
I will leave you with this scenario:
Imagine for a moment that an armed
bystander were present at the theatre
in Aurora, Colo., or an armed teacher
were teaching at the school in Newtown,
Conn. Imagine that these armed citizens
were able to kill the psychopaths before
they could carry out their acts of vio-
lence, and well before the police arrived.
Even if the intense 8-hour safety
courses and shooting tests required for
concealed permits by most states—in-
cluding my home state of South Caro-
1ina—don’t prevent such collateral dam-
age, consider this: wouldn’t it be better
to read, “Psychopath kills 10, armed
bystander shoots and kills shooter and 3
in crossﬁre” in the newspaper than “Psy-
chopath kills 28, injures 3 at Newtown,
Conn. school”? \

 
    
 
 
  
 

body, ought: to be checked at an an-.  

jnual meclicalicheckup. "Also, so thati.
;i,‘everyoncf‘.’s,.‘mindv is healthy, everyone 1;

ought ’to“5;be_ required, by law, ‘to have
a-yearly checkup. If everyone were in

Wm...

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MON DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

7 ~' <3; « - ‘ If

.  A ,,,:,£iM3il’lSa 1 a
Favorite part about studying abroad?
Being able to learn about another country’s culture, while getting to
witness it ﬁrsthand.

What you missed most about W&L while you were gone?
I missed my friends from W&L the most when I was gone. I also
missed my extracurricular activities, such as Bonner and Chamber

Singers.
Craziest (Phi-appropriate) study abroad story?

Since I was in a pre-medical course, we got to visit hospitals, and in one B

hospital I got to see a live birth! It was probably the weirdest, scariest
and coolest thing I got to see during my time abroad.

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
abroad?

I never expected to jump on trampolines along the harbor in
downtown Copenhagen. Copenhagen has placed these trampolines in
the city merely for the public’s enjoyment, and  I. V ,
they are awesome! ..  ‘ "

Three words to sum up your
experience?

Life-changing, enlightening,
fantastic! .

Copenhagen, '

By Cynthia Lam
A&L EDITOR

Best part about studying abroad?

I loved being able to branch out and do crazy things I would
never normally do! I learned to play the bagpipe and joined the 
mountaineering club!

Reason why you chose to study here?

I wanted to go to an English-speaking country, but most] , I wanted
to go somewhere beautiful! I wasn’t let down by Scotlands rolling
mountains, vast lakes and year-round green fields!

What you missed most about W&L while you were gone?
My friends! Good food (Scots don’t like to season...)! And Sweet Frog...
there’s nofro-yo in Scotland.

Craziest (Phi-appropriate) study abroad story? ..

I went to Paris with a bunch of other girls from W&L. We knew we had
to get to the airport at 3 am the next morning for our ﬂight, so we just
stayed up all night, walked along the Champs-

Elysee, and enjoyed the sites!

Three words to describe your
experience?

Different. Breathtaking.
Transforming.

St. /4nc[’tews, 560

Reason you chose to study here? ‘
I couldn’t decide where to go so I found a program that went, er,
everywhere. .

What you missed most about W&L while you were gone?
The people. The parties. The Colonnade. Def not Natty Light...

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
abroad? I
Finding jesus (in Rio, I mean).

Three words to sum up your experience?
Delightful. Dangerous. Dank.

. t est part about studying abroad?
H _ B, ’ Those moments of perfection that would

  ‘  occur whenlwas chatting and drinking tea
with a tea shop owner, hangingout with the oldsters in the park
playing mahjon , or being a voyeur watching the city of Kunming
descending on the Green Lake on Saturdays.

Reason why you chose to study here?

I am a Chinese major, and I therefore naturally wanted to further my
language skills. I chose a program where you couldn’t speak English. It
was instrumental in helping me with my goal of a true exchange.

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
abroad?
Eating boiled bee larvae. Plump and white. Slimy, yet satisfying.

New phrase/language you picked up?
Oooh man. Too many to mention! My favorite is pronounced like gub-
murr. It is like “dude ’ or “bro.”

Something you wish you could have brought back to W&L with you?
The food! Oh my god the food! The mushrooms were a Yunnan
specialty, and man when they were grilled at the little barbecue stands
on the roadside; heaven.

Best part about studying abroad? _

Having the opportunity to ex erience a different culture ﬁrst-hand

and to be able to begin to feellike a local. There came a time when all
the major sites ceased to blow me away when I would see them. After
passing by the Colosseum or the Pantheon ten or so times.i. it had all
become a part of normal life for me. That’s when I realized I had moved
beyond tourist-mode to experiencing the place like a local.

Reason why you chose to study here?

Gelato. (joking, of course, but seriously, that was a major plus!) I
chose Rome because the Italian culture seemed very rich - their food
is incredible, all of them dress unbelievably well and family is one of
the most important things to them. I hoped that maybe a few of their
characteristics would wear off on me. As it turns out, I came back with
a Florentine leather jacket and a dead-sexy haircut. On top of that, as a
Roman Catholic, I knew that it would be an incredible opportunity to
live at the heart of the Church.

Something you thought you would never do but ended up doing
b ad? ‘

‘ ‘i ~  ever thought thatlwould be personally chautfeured to my

 I‘ 1 esidence byaformer Archbishop and current member ofthe
“ s College of Cardinals . Being a bit of a Catholic nerd, that
as a pretty cool experience for me.

from across the world]

$e<rraéef ./daze 34 A

Best part about studying abroad? ‘
Meeting new people and visiting different countries across Europe with
friends.

Reason why you chose to study here?

Having experienced Scotland for an entire semester, I wouldn’t have
wanted to study abroad anywhere else. You escape the homesickness
of being in a country where you don’t know the native language but
you also get the pros of studying abroad and having that cultural
experience that you’ll remember for the rest of your life.

What you missed most about W8rL while you were gone?

The free food that is everywhere on campus. Paying 18 dollars a meal
tends to empty your bank account pretty fast.

Craziest (Phi-appropriate) study abroad story?
Fitting two people on a tiny rental bike and biking through the streets
of Paris at 3 am, and then accidentally merging onto a highway.

Something you thought you would never do
but ended up doing abroad?
Doing a 20-foot pier jump into the
orth Sea in the middle of December.

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

7 ~ THE RING-TUM PHI 0

  

 

arts&life

Finding the “Keyes” to happiness  

By Caroline Hamp
STAFF WRITER

What constitutes a “good life”? What makes
humans happy? Is it attainable‘? So many ques-
tions and so few answers! “Questioning the
Good Life,” a year-long series seminar with six
visiting speakers, attempts to answer these deep
questions and many more. So far, the speakers
have addressed everything from the economical
to philosophical facets of happiness. Last week,
Dr. Corey Keyes, a sociology professor at Emory
University, was the fourth of six speakers, and he
discussed mental illness and health.

“In policy terms, even if we could cure men-
tal illness tomorrow, that doesn’t guarantee good
mental health,” Keyes told an audience in Stack-
house Theater last Thursday.

His reasoning: although mental illness and
mental health are correlated, they do not belong
in the same dimension. While the United States
government primarily focuses on mental illness.
Keyes believes it would produce better results to
focus on mental health.

There is a stigma associated with mental ill-
ness, especially in light ofthe multiple shootings
that have occurred recently. Mental illness, in
the minds of many Americans - thanks to grue-
some stories in the media - is linked to violence.
(In reality, only 1 percent of people diagnosed
with mental illness are prone to violence.)

The government responds to this popular fear
by creating special programs for the mentally ill.
Unfortunately, in today’s healthcare world, men-

tal illness is treated, but not cured or prevented.
According to Keyes, the government spends
their money on “squashing all the illness before
investing in health.”

Keyes sees more potential in the positive side
— mental health. First, he deﬁned “ﬂourishing”
and its counterpart, “languishing,” in terms of
psychological, social and emotional well-being.
He then studied the resulting effects of those at-
titudes. By using statistics and graphs (he really
likes graphsl), he demonstrated the movement
towards ﬂourishing, which promotes the increas-
ingly positive outcomes.

When people are happy, “there is a greater
return in terms of investment.” Keyes’ advice
to the government is to start providing resources
for ﬂourishing. There is not enough ﬂourishing,
and not ﬂourishing is a burden, yet with promo-
tion and protection, this can be easily remedied.

“If we take happiness seriously, we will pre-
vent mental illness in the first place,” attested
Kcyes. .

Keyes is a sociologist and psychologist. He
teaches at Emory University and has written
multiple books. His model of health is being
adopted by Canada’s public health sector and
some ofhis ideas are being implemented into the
United States Healthy People Program 2020.

Dr. Corey Keyes discusses the role of happiness in mental illness and health
during his speech in the “Questioning the Good Life” series on Jan. 17.

   

"ta

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

  

  
 

GETTI-IERE

From Lexington, get on Highway 64 and
head west, driving for about 40 miles
until you reach Exit 21 for VA-696. That’s
where you will turn right onto Selma Low
Moor Rd, and then immediately left onto
State Route 1101.
State Route 1101 for two miles until you

Continue following

reach a turning point at an intersection
with Jackson River. Turn right and fol-
low State Route 1104/Valley Ridge Rd

for 0.1 miles, and watch out for the ‘cave

entrance on your right.

Island Ford Cave is a popular desti-
nation for recreational cavers, and offers
an adequately challenging experience

' for both beginners and more experienced

professionals. Its main inhabitants in-
clude bats, fossils, leisurely cavers and
the occasional geology class. Located in
Covington, West Va., about 40 minutes
away, Island Ford Cave offers an excit-
ing opportunity for adventure.

This weekend, I had the chance to
‘visit the cave with the Outing
Club. The group, led by Mr.
James Dick, consisted often stu-
dents of varying experience lev-
els. Though I had been caving
before, I was excited to take on
this experience with my fellow
spelunkers. The endeavor surely
fostered new friendships and re-
inforced old ones, as adventure
always does. I,

The ﬁrst step to planning a
caving trip is to make sure you
are adequately prepared; ‘there
are a few essential rules to live
by. The most crucial rule is to
‘NEVER go caving alone. It is
easy to get lost, _or worse, in-
jured, deep within thecave, and
without a partner, the risks» in-
volved in the pursuit ‘are much\
higher. It" is also important to
go with someone who has been
in the cave before, or at the very
least to bring a map or some oth-
er means of knowing where you
are. Finally, always bring at least
three independent sources ‘of
light, including back-up batteries
and light bulbs if you’re using a

  AVIN

ﬂashlight, or some waterproof matches
for an emergency situation. , .

A hard hat is a must,(I probably hit
my helmet inside the cave at least ten
times). Kneepads are a worthwhile in-
vestment, as well, especially when you

will be crawling on the ground. Many .- ,

caves have surprisingly low tempera-
tures - Island Ford stays around 55 _de-
grees year-round — so make sure to bring

warm clothes that you won’t mind get- ,
ting (very) muddy. Closed-toed shoes .

are vital; if possible, waterproof shoes
would be ideal,’ because the trek through
Island Ford (if you do the whole loop)
can involve a lot of water and mud.
Once you are adequately prepared,
the fun can begin. The entrance to 15-
land Ford is an ominouslylarge, trian-
gle-shaped hole just off the side of the
road. Once you’re inside the cave and

away from the outside light, it can take I

the eyes up to 40 minutes to completely
adjust to thedarkness (personally, I felt
ﬁne after about ten). A certain cold hu-
midity lingers - a uniquesensat‘ionI have
found only in caves - perhaps a product

of the stagnant air. Together, the, atmo- -

sphere invokes a sense of adventure.

Island Ford Cave is notan easy walkiii
through the park; the path you follow is ’ V V A _
‘g at all times)’, Don’t leave any 

one of climbing, sliding, duckingiand-'
crawling.) Though there are a number "of
different paths you can take andimany

dead ends to explore, the most common e

route is tostay on the old streambed on
the way in and leave by following the
existing stream.

The old streambed is'a  Ive the.cur- 
rent, running stream, and 'is‘visib_le at
times during your trip. Don’t be dis- '

.1 . and ﬁnd food. The bats can onlyhave so

in up the winter before their small’ bodies 

    
 
     
   
    

By Josh White
_$T‘AFF WRJTE
couraged, by very narrow sections where
you might have to crawl in order to keep
‘ onmoving forward; the pathkeeps go-
ing until you reachranwopen roomfwith
‘a low ceiling and a large clear pool of
water. if .  ~’ 
Among the numerous breatlxtakin
sights are the cave bats. They are about»...
the lsilzeof your thumb, and during hi *
time of year, theyiwill be hanging frorh
the ceiling in hibernation. The bats at‘
very sensitive creatures during the w
‘ ter, so doeverything in your power? no
to wakethem up. The heat ﬁ'orn}th'
' light of yourﬂashlight can be enou ‘ t
change the chemistry in their‘ bodie so
that they will think;it’s time to go outsid

  
   
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
    

, manyof these falseawakenings during

out, so itis best to “exercise -caution 
awareness when you encounter them

the . stones .,tra’iling¢th  _ d
tinue to «follow it all the " 
entra;nce.of the’ cave.‘ I '
narrower andyvetter
ing in,buti it is worth it
As always,’ treat the c

: other natural environment, it
atmosphere, and one of Ve
mains 'open_to the pub M

. one thing to ‘-remember,‘ " g_
have an awesome timelf, I

   

  

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

  arts&|ife

 

Spotlight: Generals of the Month  

Courtesy of Celebrating Student Success

PRESS RELEASE

Washington and Lee University
seniors Shannon McGovern and Ke-
aton Fletcher will be recognized at the
Generals of the Month presentation
for January on Thursday, Jan. 24, at
11:45 a.m. in the Marketplace in El-
rod Commons.

McGovern, of Silver Spring, Md.,
is a journalism and mass communi-
cations and computer science double
major. She is a member of the W&L
Outing Club, a trip leader for The
Leading Edge Appalachian Adventure
pre-orientation trip, and a member of
Chi Omega sorority.

A graduate of Georgetown Visi-
tation Preparatory School in Wash-
ington, McGovern is a computer sci-
ence lab assistant and works on W&L
Campus Recreation Social Media
placing announcements and ads. Last
summer, she interned at U.S. News

and World Report interv_iewing po-
litical authors and policymakers and
covering current political news, legal
controversies and policy changes.

psychology and neuroscience double
major. He is a Johnson Scholar, presi-
dent of Lifestyle Information for Ev-
eryone (LIFE), development chair of
Beta Beta Beta Biological Honor So-
ciety and vice president of recruitment
for Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.

A graduate of Columbine High
School, he is a member of Psi Chi
Psychology Honor Society and a .
member of General Admission, a coed
a cappela group. He has been on the
Dean’s List during the 2009-2010 and
2011-2012 academic years.

Fletcher, of Littleton, Colo., is a

Generals of the Month is coor-

dinated by the Celebrating Student
Success (CSS) initiative and spon-

sored by the Division of Student Af-
fairs to inspire engaged citizenship at
Washington and Lee University. CSS
seeks to recognize students who are .
not typically or sufficiently touted for
the depth and breadth they add to our
campus community.

McGovern and Fletcher were se-
lected by the CSS Committee, which
is composed of students, ‘faculty and
staff Any member of the campus
community can nominate a W&L stu-
dent at any time with the online form : --
at go.wlu.edu/css.

Future CSS presentations during
the 2012-2013 academic year will be
held during lunch in the Marketplace
in the Elrod Commons on Feb. 14, and
dates in March, April and May, yet to
be determined.

 

Tsone

By Lindsey Burke
STAFF WRITER

Not many people can match the
athleticism of Washington and Lee’s
Pilates instructor Julia Tisone.

Interestingly enough, Pilates is not
Tisone’s original area of expertise.
She extends off Pilates with back-
grounds in gymnas-

tops Pilates

As a result of her developing love for
these classes, and Reynold’s depar-
ture from the University, Tisone de--
cided to get her Pilates certiﬁcation.
“My favorite part is playing with
the balls and weights,” said Tisone

Junior Courtney Lewis is one of
Tisone’s younger students. “It’s a re-
ally good complement to cardio be-
cause [Tisone] doesn’t do many repe-
titions, but goes through the stretches
and exercises slowly so that every

muscle is worked

tics, trail running and
bike racing.

“I’ve been an ath-
lete all my life, so
[Pilates] is just a good
continuation of it,”
said Tisone.

She came to the

University after he‘ and knows how to work with eve muscle in on] °“13’ an h°“"5
..hus,b.and,.J,ames Dick, '3’ 3’

’, TVVaS named DlI'€CtO1' Of   is  ”

Student Programming

A “[Tisone] doesn’t do many repetitions, but goes LeWiS_ “You can
through the stretches and exercises slowly so that
every muscle is worked or stretched... You can tell

that Julie really understands how the body works h°“"° ‘”‘’’k with

and Campus Recre_ Junior Courtney L€WiS

ati0n_  is reSp0n_   Pilates class on

sible for running the

Outing Club, Group Exercise, Sports
Clubs and lntramurals and student
programming and events.

According to Tisone, her position
as an instructor evolved after taking
classes with.the school’s previous
Pilates teacher, Elizabeth Reynolds.

about her class.

Tisone said her students’ range
from ages '18 to 60 plus. Due to the
large age gap, Tisone tries to use a
wide range of music selections dur-
ing her class. All of her music comes
from her own personal collection.

12:15 p.m. in the Dance Studio.

or stretched,” said

tell that Julie re-
ally understands
how the body
works and knows

every muscle in
class!”

Interested stu-
dents ' and staff

can take Tisone’s

Thursdays at

.

 

.WZetcﬂe/3 76’

‘I

   

Exhibit showcases a bright Future

By Graham Colton ,
HEAD COPY EDITOR _

Last Wednesday in Wilson Hall’s
Concert Hall, Emily Smith, the guest
curator of Staniar Gallery and Director
of 1708 Gallery in Richmond, Va., dis-
cussed Future Perfect, Staniar Gallery’s
exhibition of the artwork of recent grad-
uates of Virginia Commonwealth Uni-
versity’s Graduate School of the Arts.
The young artists’ work can be enumer-
ated from traditional to nontraditional
media.

 

Plctured above: Sayaka Suzukl'_s “Hunting for the Spirits,” photo-

“Katie lets the painting evolve as she
makes it,” said Smith.

Unlike Baines, Sayaka Suzuki, a glass
sculptor, takes care to make wrought (lit-
erally) an object whose implications are
as clear and hard as the glass of which
it is made.

“There’s a duality to her projects,”
Smith said. “Using a material as delicate
and fragile as glass, she portrays menac-
ing, threatening and violent images.”

graphed by Thomas J. Condon, a feature in the art exhibit.

The work of Katie Baines, made
from acrylic on panel, is nonrepresenta-
tional and surreal. Her Cornucopia, for
instance, experiments with the Thanks-
giving cornucopia by painting the wick-

er basket a rainbow of colors, while still ,

coloring the basket brown in spots. In
another work of hers, Baines depicts a
pile of multicolored paint which has
haphazardly pooled in the comer, sym-
bolizing the artist’s free-ﬂowing, unin-
tentional style which, despite its lack of
planning, retains its aesthetic appeal.

In “Hunting for the Spirits,” a pho-
tograph, a camouﬂage-clad hunter is
shown wielding a glass riﬂe, through
which glow the warm, golden-brown
rays of a setting sun. Similarly, in an-
other photograph, “Landscape of Rain-
bows,” caste shell casings and bullets,
colored in the brightness of the Crayola
spectrum, rest side-by-side to one anoth-
erin an undulating line.

Whereas Baines and Suzuki, respec-
tively, make art out of the more tradi-
tional media of acrylic paint and glass,

 

the world, it should be noted, is Naoko
Wowsugi’s medium. ‘

Born in South Korea, raised in Ja-
pan and schooled in the United States,
Wowsugi is a world traveler whose citi-
zenship is, as Smith deadpanned, “none
of your business.” Seeking to leave her
mark across the planet, Wowsugi makes
noninvasive connections to businesses
and people from everywhere.

’For example, at a Richmond cafe
where straws and stirrers were served
in three Styrofoam cups, Wowsugi re-
placed one of them with more sustain-
able ceramic mugs. Without knowing
who did so, management agreed to the
change by swapping the other two out
for more mugs.

At a mom-and-pop bakery in Ver-
mont, Wowsugi replaced a framed
magazine article or photograph on the
wall with a new photograph once every
twenty days. The bakery consented to
the interior redesign by simply rearrang-
ing the placement of the photographs on
the wall after all the magazine cutouts
had been supplanted.

With people, Smith said, Wowsugi
is “trying to ﬁnd relationships and her
place.” Just as she did with businesses,
Wowsugi chooses a single element (a
person), changes it (befriends him), and
replicates that change on a large scale
(asks her new friend to introduce her
to his friends). Wowsugi then does the
same with someone in her new friend’s
group of friends.

The artists presented thus far
have used acrylic paint, glass and the
world. Alina Tenser, however, uses
nothing. Instead, she lets nature do the
work, having taken a boulder from a
Richmond riverbank and dubbed it “art.”
What is artistic about, in Smith’s words,
“taking something out of its natural set-
ting and plunking it down on a gallery
ﬂoor”?

As the water, wind and erosion of
nature itself, Tenser assumes the role of

artist as Mother Nature. Although unac-
companied by video at Staniar Gallery,
Tenser’s boulder is meant to be accom-
panied by a video in which her disem-
bodied hands mold rock. This seems
to symbolize the formative influence of
touch (or lack thereof) both physically,
as seen in its sculpting of the boulder,
and antisocially, as exemplified by the
continual stretching, reaching and long-
ing of her hands for some other set of

hands which is just not there.

Future Perfect, a collection of the
work of Katie Baines, Genesis Chap-
man, Will Machin, Valerie Molnar, Matt
Shelton, Sayaka Suzuki, Alina Tenser
and Naoko Wowsugi, will be on display
in the Staniar Gallery until Feb. 7.

Show off! Take a day off of classes and present your favorite
course essay, new cover album, or studio art masterpiece at
SSA5. Project submissions are due Jan. 25th at ssa.w|u.edu.

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 21,2013

1;/M 11,4./M4//sir

Manti Te’o has been in the public eye recently
thanks to a Deadspin story by Timothy Burke and
Jack Dickey that broke the fact that his alleged
girlfriend never actually existed. y

We now all know that his alleged girlfriend,
22-year-old Lennay Kekua, was not involved in a
car crash early in 2012. We now all know that she
did not die of leukemia the same week as Te’o’s
grandmother back in September. We now all know
that the photos on. her Twitter account were of a
different woman, unaware of the use of her picture.
The real question is this: did Te’o know all of this
all along or did he ﬁnd out with the rest of us?

It seems that Te’o. learned what had happened
in December after receiving a phone call fromethe
woman whom he. knew as Kekua . According to

USA Today, Notre Dame started an investigation V

at the beginning of January, a week after Te’o in-
formed the University of the alleged hoax.

After the Deadspin article was published, Notre
Dame released a statement saying that the creation
of Kekua was a “sad and very cruel deception to
entertain its perpetratorsf".

Te’o was duped, plain and simple.

He. never met Kekua . _

1 and had _V V
' no reason; to doubt

anything‘ ;.that . she
said or didflt was an

online 1 relationship, -

the sort) that [many

 Amer'ic_ansi. A have '.to- l
» day.’ Even MTV has a"

ishlowvtitled ‘fCatﬁsh:

. The TV‘ Show” about

people in‘ ‘ the "same

Vsort of situation as
 Te"o:a .and~.;t*,be,lieve 

that-they are in love was

' Kekua

with someone and don’t know tl1at'theyrdon’t actti.:.

ally exist. .

She, was also apparentlya selﬂess "girlfriend?-_ ~
who told him to put football before her. He received ‘
texts and letters that she would write on,her iPad .
before each of his games. Hesaysthat he’d_idn’t‘goV

. to the funeral because shetold him to never iniiss‘-ai-V

game. L .
~Te’0i thought
that he talked to
her on’ thephone
every night when
she was in the-
hospital, -falling 
asleep listeningto,  1 y

, her breathing. He ‘

had talked to her_,'_. 
onfthe’ phone in , 
the lockergroom, «
even passing the ’
phone /to team-'
mates". Nobody
thought anything. 
was amiss.‘ 3," ‘V
‘Although

wasn’t

actually

,1  A _ _s’s"ed,Vb
entirevordeal and has not'tspoken__1ti'uch' of it.»
‘week he granted an interview to'ESPN,after

story broke. This week will‘b e his first on?-cam

interview- with Katie Couric on her daytime.-.t_a_,lk’ 
show on Thursday. We mayinev__efr”f1nd. out all‘o_ he 5*
* details -of this elaborate hoax vbutvit se_etns“-tha

_was.the victim, not one.ofthe'per'petr"

This week the world ound out that the tragic 1
death of Manti e’o’s girlfriend this past
September was fake. Did Te’o know it was
fake the enitre time?
Leigh and Hailey square 017 on the
controversy

This college football season Manti Te’o served
as aninspiration to Notre Dame and football fans
alike. His story of overcoming the loss of his
grandmotheriand girlfriend within the span of a
few days was heartbreaking and moving alike. His
performance against Michigan State was the pas-

sionate response just days after their passing. The a
is 1 game ball was 1

presented to _v

5 dearly V.

Te’o’s
departed "girl.
friend.’ His story
-brought,’ fans to

tears, and served _ W

1 as; an

.  -Butt  then
fﬂeadspin -' "re- 5

‘itileased a story

‘ .put,’to”getl1er with 8
: evidence 1. that.

= Te’o’s girlfriend,

' » "L'enn_ay Kekua, .

1 never , existed.
"Kekua was an
1 __ Tonline personali-

less than an hour’

' Notre Dame re- a
sponded almost immediately to the story that went _

viral, claiming that they were aware Kekua was not

real and that Te’o had known about the hoaxsince '

December 26. Te’o and Notre Dame had appar-

ently been planning on releasing the information,‘

on their own time before the4Deadspin story broke.
_There are many questions surrounding the

hoax’. The most important being, what was Te’o’s »
involvement? The reaction to the hoax, and the

subsequent ﬁndings, could impact Te’o’s draft
stock. Either way it seems like a lose-lose for Te’o:
he was either naive enough to fall in love with an

-thro erence

By Bailey Russell
STAFF WRITER

_ ty created by who
‘is-', now known,
to’ be:- Ronaiah 
Tuiasosopo. 1n’,

On Tuesday, senior forward Katy Wil-
son hit a game-winning free throw with 3.5
seconds left in the game to push the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s basketball team to
a 55-54 win over Randolph.

After the Generals came back from a
nine-point deﬁcit, cutting it to three, ﬁrst-
year forward Shelbi Hendricks recorded a
three-point play to tie the game at 54-54
with 1:26 on the clock. Neither team could
break the tie until a foul by Wildcat ju-
nior guard Emilee Dunton sent Wilson to
the line and led to the game-winning free
throw. .

W&L opened the second half with a
jumper by Hendricks for a four-point ad-
vantage just 35 seconds into the period.
Randolph fought back with consecutive
points to take a 31-30 lead by the 16:53
mark. Generals’ senior guard Megan Marks
pulled back the lead, 33-31, only to have

Wildcat ﬁrst-year guard Abigail Bullins an-
swer with a jumper at. 16:23 to tie the con-
test at 33.

The Generals controlled the next 5:44 of
the game as they held a steady lead until
8:51, when the Wildcats took a 43-42 lead
off a jumper by sophomore forward Allie
Druffel. A free throw by Wilson tied the
game at 43-43 with 8:00 left to play, but
Randolph went on an 11-2 run over the next
3:18 to pull forward and claim the nine-
point lead at 4:42.

The teams went back and forth to start
the game and were deadlocked at 6-6 by the
15:34 mark. The Generals went on a 12-4
stretch to give it an 18-10 at 12:50. Ran-
dolph continued to stay in the game, scor-
ing the next nine points and holding W&L
scoreless for eight minutes.

The Generals regained ' the lead and
pushed it to ﬁve by the 2:12 mark as Marks

connected on a layup. After back-to-back
shots by Randolph, the score was again
tied, 26-26, with 1:26 to go. Neither team
scored again until senior forward Rachel
Warrick landed two free throws to push the
Generals’ lead to two (28-26) at the break.

For the game, the Wildcats shot 38.2
percent from the ﬁeld, while holding W&L
to 33.3 percent from the ﬂoor and 21.4 per-
cent from long range.

Hendricks paced the Blue and White
with her ﬁrst career double-double on 18
points and 11 rebounds, while adding three
assists and two steals. Marks notched 10
points and four boards, and Wilson collect-
ed 12 points, eight rebounds, ﬁve assists
and a pair of blocks.

THE RING-TUM PHI '

\\.\\\.‘x.‘\ \\\‘i\\‘\.‘t.‘\

imaginary girl he had met online and lied about his
face-to-face interactions with her to cover up his
embarrassment, or he was a part of the scandal.
selﬁsh and manipulative.

Since the story broke Te’o has done an ofl’cam-
era interview and a source has come out saying
that Tuiasosopo was behind Kekua‘s internet pro-

ﬁles and-'Te‘o was ‘never aware of the hoax. The

hoax has become he said-she said. While people
are coming outsupporting Te’o, and his interviews

» seem gen"uine,‘1 have a hard time believing his sto-
' ; ry. We live in a world that is dominated by media

andtechnology,» albeit 4media.,'that don’t bother to

Check person is real. This is the day and age of

«Skype‘_ ~Face‘time,iSn'apchat and various other so-
’ f  es‘thatfallo_w..us.' to: communicate with
on V. A , o"inatterf_:'how much distance sepa-
rates us. ’i' _   ‘ » ’ ’
~ Aceordingito the Deadspin article, Te’o claimed

'toi'ha‘ve‘m_e't Kekua in 2009. That’s three years dur-
mg which -they supposedly‘ knew each other. Even

if it was an online re.lationship that'Te’o truly be-
lieved was real, there had to have been an oppor-
tunityjfor them to make some sort of face—to-face
contact. While Te’o might not have known imme-
diately that she was not real, there is no possible

\ way he didn’t ﬁgure it out within the three years

he claimed to have been friends/dating her. The in-
volvement ofTuiasosopo,_tweets made by Te’o and
comments ‘made by friends and family suggesting
that they had met Kekua are all too coincidental.
The truﬂrabotit the hoax may never be ﬁgured out,

1 but the effects are inevitable and we’ll see how the
NFL feels about either thestupidest man entering

the draft, or the most conniving.

  

10 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MON DAY, JANUARY 21, 2013

sports

 

in the numbers
17

The total number of points that the San Francisco.49ers
were down in Sunday’s NFC championship game against
the Atlanta Falcons. The 49ers were down 17-0 at the be-
ginning of the game, came back to pull it to 17-14 by the

end of the first half and ended up winning 28-24.

‘92

The age of Stan ‘The Man’ Musial when he passed away
on Saturday. Musial played for the St. Louis Cardinals for
22 years, starting in 1940 and retiring in 1963. He took a

season off in 1945 to 'serve in the U.S. Navy during WWII. He
held 55 records when he retired and was honored with the

Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2011.

0

The total number of years that Lindsey Hunter has coached
before being named as interim head coachjfor the Phoenix
Suns on Sunday. He replaces Alvin Gentry, who left the or-

’ ganization on Friday. Hunter was the Player Development

Director for the Suns and played in the NBA for 17 years.

.s0apboxf

“I just had a flashback from 2012. It was
maybe 45 minutes shorter, this match,
than the one 12 months ago, but still it
was exciting. I tried to enjoy the moment
and couldn't ask for more. What a match
point...unbelievable. ”

- Novak D okovlc after I ng tennis over 5
hours to efeat Stanls as awrlnka In the
fourth round ofthe Australian Open. He won
1-6, 7-5, 64, 6-7 (5), 12-10. Last r he

Iayed for 5:53 to defeat Rafael adal In the
nals. Djokovlc has won 18in a row atthe

Australian O n, including winning the last two
titles, from PN.com.

“There's so much more that goes into it,
and that’s what people have to realize.
What happens when I leave? Who
becomes the next head coach? What
happens to those players? It's not as
easy as making reservations for dinner.
You’re not just changing your life, but
other people ’s lives.” .

-New Philadelphia Eagles’ Head Coach Chip
Kelly, reiiectin on the dlfﬂcult questions that
he had to cons der while mulling over whether
or not he should leave the Univers of Oregon,
where he used to coach. for the N Kelly,
considered by ma to be the favorite for the
job, had been torn n remaining with

a school atwhich he had had great success,

or leaving the school for the spoils of the
professional ranks.

londeck

Women’s Basketball

nexntxaﬁknn
By Hendley Badcock
STAFF WRITER

      
  

1pool,2 records

By Hailey Hartley

s TA F F w R IT E R .
 The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s

swimming teams defeated both Catholic and
Marymount in a home meet that celebrated this
year’s seniors.

Two pool records were set during
the meet: Rick Sykes broke the 50m
freestyle record with a time of 20.50
and the women’s 200-yard medley re-
lay team swam in a time of 1:52.08.
Stephanie Foster, Sarah Schaffer, Car-
oline Hamp and Izzy Brassﬁeld made
up the record-breaking women’s relay
team.

Both teams took home ﬁrst place
ﬁnishes in several events, including
the men’s 200-yard medley relay team
made up of Wayde Marsh, Wesley
Sigmon, Brennan Haley and Sykes.
Other winners included Kelly Mae
Ross and Alex Cram in the 1000-yard
freestyle events, and Delaney Rolfe
and Tyler Gehrs in the 200-yard free-
style. Altogether the men’s team had
11 ﬁrst place ﬁnishes, while the wom-
en’s team had ten.

Both teams will be swimming at
VMI next weekend, Saturday the
26th. The meet is scheduled to begin
at 1 p.m.

Racquetball enthusiasts across campus are
competing against each other in a ladder chal-
lenge all winter term.

Although this is not the ﬁrst time Washing-
ton and Lee hosts a recreational sports ladder,
“it is the ﬁrst time the ladder lives on Sakai,”
explained Assistant Professor of Physics Dan
Mazilu. Registration, scores and rankings are
all conveniently managed online.

Furthermore, self-scheduled ladders offer
flexibility, a necessity to University students
and faculty. Mazilu reports that participants
challenge any player within two ranks of his
own position at a minimum of one racquet-
ball match per two weeks. Within 10 days of
issuing the challenge, the competitors must
complete their match. All matches follow
USRA rules. Afterward, results are sent to
Mazilu who updates Sakai and sends emails
ofthe competitors’ progress to all participants.
Matches conclude Apr. 5 'and ﬁnal standings
are published the following day.

Mazilu started the racquetball ladder sim-
ply out of love for the game. “I ﬁnd it’s not
nearly as popular as it deserves,” he adds.
Registration is ongoing, and over a
dozen students and faculty members
already participate. Many more——
especially women—are encouraged
to come out and play. So, anyone
interested in a friendly racquet-
 ,_ ball competition this winter
 ’ term should please Contact Dan

 Mazilu at mazilud@wlu.
edu for registration and

 
   
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   

    

'-~'-'4-»._-' » 1. .

\

!v1[:r.2ﬂr- " 7

Gen n 1e s top
By Bailey Russell 
STAFF WRITER 
Coming off a solid win over Sophomore guard Javon Mc-
-Emory & Henry on Monday - Donald added nine points, two
night, Washington and Lee men’s if rebounds and an assist off the
basketball returned to the War- bench. ,
ner Center to face Old Dominion W&L began the second half 4’
Athletic Conference rival Roa- with a 34-33 lead, but the Ma- 
- noke. The Generals were able to roons scored the ﬁrst six points 
‘hold Roanoke to 12 second-half of the second to take a 39-34 V
‘points on their way to a 61-48 lead with 15:10 remaining in the
victory. game.
or Senior forward J.D. Ey got his »,_, Head coach Adam Hutchinson
third double-double of the season [5 called time-out for the Generals,
.1 with 15 points (6 of 10 from the and the team returned with 10
’ ﬁeld) and 11 rebounds. Addition— '‘ of the next 12 points, capped by
ally he had ﬁve steals, four blocks a three-pointer by junior guard
and two assists to lead the Gener- Kevin Gill, to regain an advan-
, als (8-8, 3-4 ODAC). tage (44-41) with 9:52 left to go.
The score was tied at  at ,W&L kept the lead, as the Gen- ‘
the 13:56 mark, after the teams U erals ﬁnished the game on a 17-7
traded baskets to start the game. ' run.
W&L went on a l3-2 stretch to ‘ For the game, W&L shot 21-
gain the lead with 8:30 left in the of-54 from the ﬁeld and 6-for-20
half. Five Generals scored dur- from long distance. W&L shot i7
ing the run," including layups by more free throws than Roanoke,
Ey (twice), junior forward Larry‘ , but only converted on 13-of-23.
Whitaker, ﬁrst-year forward An-
drew Franz and junior forward
Drew Kimberly.
/ Roanoke rebounded from the
double-digit deﬁcit by out-scor-.
iing the Gennies, 23-12, in the
gﬁnal eight minutes of the half to
7pull within one, 34-33, heading
0 into the break.
, Franz joined Ey in double
' ﬁgures for the Generals with 15
,5 points. Franz also grabbed sev- ‘3‘.=‘*‘
en boards and tallied one steal. -

         
     
       
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 

 

  
 

Thursday Sunday

at York 7 pm

Wednesday Saturday

vs Roanoke 7 pm at RM 4 Pm

Men's Basketball

at RM 7 pm at Va-Wes 2 pm 3

Swimming‘

at VMI 1 pm

Track and Field

at Denison 1 pm

Wrestling

vs Johns Hopkins 12 pm
vs NYU 12 pm

 

