 

Tuesday
Edition

 

TM TONE SSEES§  !§§ EE iE USO neous
Res apse enene +

 
  
 

   

Sictee hi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Tuesday
Edition

 

Volume LXV

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 2, 1965

Number 34

 

Kiwanis Club
Plans Operetta
For March 18-20

By FRANK L. FAIRCHILD, JR.
Rehearsals are now in progress for
the local Kiwanis Club’s production
of Sullivan operetta lolanthe. The
play, a musical with light hearted
lyrics and memorable melodies, is
sponsored by the local civic club
as a fund raising project for the Ki-
wanis Scholarship Fund. It is sched-
uled to be produced March 18-20 at
the Waddell School.

According to Mr. David Dick-
ens of the German Department,
one of the two co-ordinators for
the community production, Iolan-
the “is essentially a satire on
British politics.” It also pokes fun
at the Peter-Pan plays popular
in 19th century England,

In a brief compendium of the in-
volved plot, Mr. Dickens explained
that the title character, Iolanthe,

she is banished to the bottom of ¢
stream by the fairy queen as
Martha P. Laverty, a member of the
Music Department at Southern
Seminary).

W&L Students Participate

loalnthe’s son, Strephon (Dan
Manson, a W&L senior) possesses
the dual nature of a spirit and a
mortal. He falls in love with a shep-
herdess named Phyllis (Mrs. John
C. Allen, a resident of Lexington)
who is a ward of the Lord Chancel-
lor (VMI instructor Francis H. M.
Mackenzie).

The Lord Chancellor and peers of
parliament led by Mount Mountar-
arat (W&L senior Bill Supon) and
Lord Tolloller (Col. F. H. Barksdale
of VMI) are all in love with Phyllis
also. It is from this conflict that the
plot developes.

Stewart Conducts Orchestra

Apart from the principle roles,
there is active W&L participation in
numerous phases of the production.
The male chorus includes students
Tom Davis, Fred Taussig, and Peter
Strohm and, in addition, faculty
members Messrs. Hines, Freeman,
DeVogt and Dickens. The Orchestra
is being conducted by Mr. Robert
Stewart, director of the W&L Glee
Club. Dean John is a member of the
publicity committee while Dr.
Charles Phillips heads ticket distri-
bution.

Mr. Dickens emphasizes that the
local Kiwanis Club is hoping for
strong student support to justify
the liberal expenditures for cos-
tumes. Tickets, selling for one dollar,
may be obtained at Legget’s Depart-

ment Store, MceCrum’s Drug Store,
the Campus Corner, or from any
menrber of the cast

Ilse Blumenthal-Weiss
To Read German Poetry
In Lee Chapel Wednesday

By DON OHARE
Assistant Editer
Mrs. Ilse Blumenthal-Weiss
and lecturer, will give a reading of
modern German poetry in Washing-

poet

 

ton and Lee University's Lee Chapel By JIM CROTHERS j Kappa Alpha Order was founded in 1865 under the spiritual quid |' ithe of Washi on and Las
Wednesday, March 3, at 8:40 pm News Editor t Washington and Lee University; ence” of Robert EB. Lee, then Pre i Nowell noted that histery and
Her appearance is sponsored by A p of the Kappa Alpha . eat, 2 | the “attractive homes and fine aca-
Washington and Lee's German de-| Orde te W celebration, work | se tye = +. | demic background” of Lexington
— ~ Th 4 7. ae : te | prompted the K.A. National Ex-

Well knewn as a reader of lier n lai headquat » be located iG : errlive Couwneil to select its birth-
ture in her native Germany, Mrs.jon Lee Avenu Lex , TY ee + place at the site of iis permanent
Blumenthal was a friend of the late Ground! ' ‘ ) | 4 ru ; heardquarts
German poet Reiner Maria Rilke held ' conjun Ea ¥- : on
whese letters to her were published K.A ; Co me] ‘eh , n
in the pre -Nazi period ici Will fries i nearby Reanoke : ; ; :

Nazi Experiences John W. Nowell, Knight Com o

A distinguished poet in he vn| mander of Kappa Alpha Order
rigvt. Mrs. Blumenthal wrote th stated that the land has already) .
volumes “Mahnmal and se been purchased and that the ac
luesselwunder, distillations of he tual building would be financed ; rr VM
experience under th Nazi ifter| by eontributions from KA alumni Ml
taking up re idence in America fo and siudents i
lowing World War IL. Between Ire Nhe roposed buildin |
quent lecture tours to Fairepe and) cited on we 0 1 Barela .
lerac!, she holds a position with the ) Lexington) will co t an ¢ nated
Leo Baeck Institute in New York { 125,000 dolla nad wil ) , cA '
City | pm AK) F : , tH ; “y

In 1952, Mrs. Blumenthal spoke on| space. 1 } Head The national headquarters of Kappa Alpha Order pictured above will vue d
tilke and read from his poetry to/ quart ‘ o co of be built on the site of the old Barcley house on Lee Avenue. Ground dl
w= audience at Washington and L« ffi la reon } breaking will take place ot the Order's annual convention in August Funds

The reading will be open to ' , KA | for the new structure have been solicited through a centennial campaign : N i

abilia and general alumni drive k 1 Lex

public

 

Principles in the forthcoming local production of the Gilbert and Sulli-
van operetta “Iolanthe” gather around the piano at a practice session. The
(Mrs. William C. Sauder, a local res- production will be given March 18, 19 and 20.
ident) is a fairy who has ee -

the capital crime of marrying a mor-
tal. As punishment for her crime, ‘Phi Eta Sigma To rae

Thirteen Men On March 17

omore will be initiated into Phi Eta| Wesley Murfin, Sigma Nu from De-

Arnold Vedlitz, ZBT
Louisiana.

is to recognize freshmen who have from Shreve-

shown proficiency in the field of} Port,
scholarship. This is the highest scho- In addition to these freshmen,
lastic award for freshmen. Phi Eta| David Kohn, a sophomore who

transferred to the University of
Richmond at the completion of his
first year here, will be honored for
achieving above a 2.5 for both se-
mesters last year.

Sigma is a freshman’s Phi Beta Kap-
pa.

It is interesting to note that there
were the same number of fresh-
men initiates last year, but there
are no 3.0’s in the class of ‘68,
whereas last year there were two.
All those freshmen attaining a 2:5
or better are eligible.

The initiation will be held in the
Student Union, followed by a ban-
quet in Evans Dining Hall, at which
time keys and shingles will be pre-
sented to the new members by Dr. |
H. Marshall Jarrett, assistant profes-|

Dr. Linton Barrett Named
Duke-UNC Humanities
Fellowship Recipient

Dr. Linton Lomas Barrett, head
of the department of romance lan-
guages at Washington and Lee Uni-

 

| versity, has been named a fellow in
sor of History and sponsor of the! iho Cooperative Program in the Hu-
local Phi Eta Sigma chapter. Dean) p,anities sponsored by Duke Univer-

and the University of North Car-
olina,
doing research in Madrid.

Dr. Barrett, who received his

(Continued on page 4)

dependent from Falls Church, Vir-
ginia; Curtis ley, PEP from Mar-
tinsville, Virginia: Richard John-
son, Pi Phi from Chesa-peake,
Virginia.

Construction to begin August 1965

 

Mhis-

 

 

By WALT BORDA
Tuesday News Reporter
Conventional Dress and _ political
parties were the main topics under
discussion last evening as the Ex-
ecutive Committee continued its
self study of student government. In
addition to the usual dilemma of
enforcement of conventional dress,

Wingfield Services Free to

the EC considered a recent editorial
in the Ring-tum Phi concerning the
| defects of the present political sys-
tem.

A s

by

sub-committee of the BC head-
led Fred Mindel presented an
interpretation of the student body
| referendum on conventional dress.
Mindel stated that although there is

 

Students

 

able each Monday, beginning

 

By KIP ARMSTRONG | Also Charles Lewis, Lambda Chi
Tuesday News Reporter | from Martinsville, Virginia; James|
Thirteen freshmen and one soph-| Lowe, SPE from Towson, Maryland;

Sigma a national scholastic honorary | ©@%r, Illinois; _Lane Steinger, ZBT |
fraternity, on March 17. It’s purpose| from Creve Coeur, Missouri; and

William W. Pusey will address the/ ity and the University of North
new members at the banquet. Carolina

The thirteen freshmen who will Under the program, Dr. Barrett
he initiated en March 17 are as | will conduct research at the two
follows: Corbet Bryant, PEP from | North Carolina universities during
Dallas, Texas; William Cockrell, | the 1965-66 academic year. He will
Independent from New Castle, | investigate the methods used by the
Pennsylvania; Mike Dunn, SPE | Spanish in steging plays in the late)
from Fort Monroe, Virginia: Den- | 16th century, when theaters were.
ald Godehn, SPE from Hendersen- | first becoming popula

ville, Nerth Carolina: David :
Greenia, PEP from Charlotte, Dr.. Barrett said most of his re-
North Carolina; Frank Greer, In- search will be conducted at Duke |

with possibly a few weks |

 

Room 21 in the Student Union*®
Building, Dean Atwood said. Inter-
| views will be conducted in Room 21

between the hours of 2 p.m. and 6

p.m, on Mondays.
Free Consultation
Dean Atwood emphasized that the

ing will involve no expense to the
student. He said the new service
part of a more comprehensive
student health program now being
implemented by the University. Dean
Atwood also stressed the voluntary
nature of the new psychiatric con-
sultation program.

Dr. Wingfield, 40, has been
gaged in similar consultation pro-
grams at other area colleges. He is
a graduate of Duke University and
received his M.D. degree from Duke
Medical School in 1951. While in
medical school, he spent one year at
Guy's Hospital of the University of
Londen as part of an international
exchange program

A Virginia Graduate

Dr. Wingfield completed his psy-
chiatric residency at the University
of Virginia Medical School. He is
certified by the National Board of
Medical Examiners, the Virginia
Board of Medical Examiners, and
ithe American Board of Psychiatry
and Neurology.

In addition to his collegiate consul-
tation activities, Dr. Wingfield con-
ducts a private practice in psychia-
try in Lynchburg

is

en-

 

NOTICE
Rockbridge Concert-
| Theater Series presents Saramae
Endrich, a soprano, at Jackson Mem-
imorial Hall at VMI at 8:15 p.m

Tonight the

Lynchburg psychiatrist Dr.

confidential interviews and counsel- |

Lynchburg Psychiatrist Joins
University Infirmary Staff

R. T. Wingfield will be avail-

March 8, for consultation with

Washington and Lee University students, it was announced
today by Dean of Students Edward C. Atwood, Jr.

Voluntary appointments with Dr. Wingfield may be made
by initialling an appointment schedule which will be posted a at

Brownell Announces
Books Selected For
CONTACT Speakers

Blaine Brownell, Chairman of the
CONTACT Steering Committee, has
announced a list of several books
which have been written by men
who will speak at the
Symposium on March 12,
Brownell noted that these
works which are currently
and do not constitute

13, 14
are only
available,
a comprehen-

 

sive bibliography

Douglass Cater has three books
available, Power in Washington; |
Ethics in a Business Society; and

(co-authored with Marquis Childs).
Mississippi:
the title of the
James W. Silver
Thomas Wicker has written Ken-
nedy Without Tears.

By special arrangement
Book Shop on
these books will
where possible,
dents

book written by

with the
Washington Street,
be in stock

at reduced prices
Brownell urged that for

CONTACT,

preciation of

and discus

dents on an informal basis

A gold Whitnauc
breken stretch

Mark Horne uf
at ZBT or P.O

with a
lost

found please conts act |

Box 341

Watch

band was

 

KA National Locates In Lexington

E.C. Studies Referendum;
Consider Political System

a group of students who enthusias-
tically support this tradition, fifty
to sixty per cent of those who par-
ticipated in the poll expressed some
degree of dissatisfaction.

Second Poll Overruled

In view of the poor response to
the first poll, the BC decided against
conducting a second one. It was
generally felt that a second poll
would provide little additional in-
formation. Mendel further empha-
sized that the EC must continue “to
study and analyze the issue of con-
ventional dress.”

Several members of the EC sug-
gested that the first poll should be
entirely discounted on the grounds
that its findings were inconclusive.
Once again there was strong sup-
port for stricter inforcement on
campus and especially in the l-
brary and dining hall The Commit-
tee opposed a move to ask the facul-
ty to require conventional dress in
class because the tradition is a stu-
dent rather than administrative
policy.

Assimilation Plans Coming

A motion was passed following the
discussion period which requested
Brooks Brown, chairman of the As-
similation Committee, to develop a
specic plan for the enforcement and
application of conventional dress.
The plan will be submitted to the
EC next Monday.

 

CONTACT |

The Fourth Branch of Government

The Closed Society is |

and, |
will be sold to stu-|

a full ap- |
general |

ad
reading of some of these works is!
encouraged. The authors will be|
happy to autograph their books|
while they are here for CONTACT, |

s their contents with stu-|

by |

An editorial in the Tuesday Edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi which
‘ealled for a reorganization of the
campus political system came up for
| discussion in last night's meeting.
The EC felt that the central issue
|at stake was the open primary pro-
| posal and not necessarily stabaliza-
| tion of political parties.
| Steve Smith To Appear
The over-all phan was deemed
| some what impractical and if aeccept-
'eded it would be difficult to impose
upon the political organization. Feel-
mi clarification necessary the Com-
mittee decided to request Steve
! Smith to appear before the
mittee at its next meeting.

Com-

 

Dr
| prolessot
‘iana State

Washington

Rene

ol

Williamson,
at Louis-
will speak at
University on
the spon-

de Visme

government
University,
and Lee
Tuesday, Mareh 9. unde
wahtip of the UCA

Four Juniors Elected
To Beta Gamma Sigma

 

Four Washington and Lee Univer-
tudent have been elected to
iombersh p 1 the Beta of Virginia
enepter of Beta Gamma Sigma, an
mor sociely which recognizes oul-
“iin wademic achievement by
iden ao busine administration
Toe four are Wiliam C. Washburn
I 7% Lexington Holx . De-
V 7 Dh it ipad 5. D Dougla
DD Hagestad Matai: ‘ La and
, 5. Patton, Springfield, Ohio
Founded 1915 an destablished
it W id Lee in 1933, Beta
‘; ni fina Clect ew Filmer
iro enol rl juniors majoring in
; ce. Dr. S. T. Lowry i pre
i a the acu! chapte : nd Pre
4? i | DeV owt ecretal
ire An initiation banquet wii
lel hte for the new memhk<
4 ‘ ive ifi
sunCced a fat tone
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Tuesday Ring-tum Phi
On the Honor System:

Last week a proposal was made by a mem-
ber of the Executive Committee that the hon-
or system be modified by the introduction of
a lighter penalty, a one-year suspension. The
proponents of this change center their attack
against the status quo on the harshness of the
present penalty of permanent expulsion, and
on a supposed lack of moral justification for
this single penalty. Concern for students forced
to withdraw from the university because of
a breach of the honor system is understand-
able, for these men face a heavy penalty, one
which in many cases must be disproportionate
to the offence they have committed. Yet when
this concern for a few students who must sep-
arate themselves from the university each year
causes the form of the honor system to be
questioned, we can only say that it is a mis-
guided concern. It is misguided in that it
regards only the penalty faced by a few men
and is blind to the benefits to the many of the
honor system.

The heavy penalty paid each year by sev-
eral students must be weighed against the
principle of the “greatest good for the great-
est number.” There are a few men who are
too weak to abide by the obligation they un-
dertook, upon entering Washington and Lee,
to live under the honor system; these men
must suffer for their weakness. But in the op-
posite scale rest the happiness of the entire
university community and the advantages
which accrue to all from the atmosphere which
can be created only by a truly effective honor
system. In return for the price of separating
the several offenders from the rest of the
community, the remainder of Washington and
Lee men can consider themselves relatively
free of lying, cheating and stealing. This cher-
ished privilege is indeed a “moral justification”
for the mandatory withdrawal of those very
few who have violated the code.

To say that the college community can
consider itself free from lying, cheating and
stealing, is not to say that we can pretend
that each student is absolutely honorable. It is
to say that we can assume—and the assump-
tion is borne out by individual experience—
that the student body is generally free of
these sins insofar as they have been under-
stood to be placed under the system. While

this is a limited concept, in its own area it is
absolute, one which is maintained by the stu-
dent body with a very slight margin of excep-
tion. This means that Washington and Lee en-
joys an atmosphere of academic freedom and
trust which could not be achieved in any
other way. It means that a student is free to
leave his possessions anywhere on campus
without fear that they will be stolen. It means
that a student can be sure that his work
being done in the same individual effort which
every other student goes through, and that he
is being graded fairly for the amount of work
he does.
The Benefits at No Price?

The supporters of the changed penalty
will be quick to claim that they do not wish
to lose all these advantages. They want to
keep the benefits, but without the present pen-
alty of automatic expulsion. However, the fact
is that the change being sought would forfeit
the honor system as we know it—the most ef-
fective system imaginable. The advocates of a
lighter penalty want to “have their cake and
eat it too’’; this is what it comes down to to try
to preserve the honor system’s advantages
while discarding the disadvantage of harshness
to violators. The two ideas are mutually ex-
clusive. That the withdrawal of those men who
violate the system is necessary to its effective
functioning is evident both by experience
and by reason. The experience of schools
which have tried more lenient punishments s
has been that cheating increases with the eas-
ing of the punishment. A recent survey con-
ducted by a Washington and Lee graduate
now at Columbia University clearly illustrates
this lesson.

Moreover, common sense is sufficient to
confirm the expectation that offenses would
be encouraged, and therefore probably in-
creased, once the penalty for violation were
lightened and offenders allowed to return to
school. In the first place, offenses would be
encouraged by the fact that the present honor
system’s idealism would be removed; ice., with
the idea of an ideally honorable (if limited by
scope) community denied the honor system
would have become a disciplinary system rath-
er than a code of conduct. Thus it would be
more subject to violation. In the second plac e,

Social Houses Not at FE ault
In W&L Academic Apathy

By ROY TYLER

presented by the fraternity crities is

a student would be more likely to risk a year’s
suspension than permanent separation from
the school. A one-year suspension, it is true,
is no lenient penalty; yet it would be so much
lighter than the present penalty that it could
not help but have a staggering moral effect
on students’ concept of the honor system.
The greatest effect of this development would
not be that a few more students would com-
mit violations each year, but that such in-
creased abuse of the system would lead to
disrespect among the rest of the students.
Eventually increasing violations would poison
the honor system for the whole student body.
Since the honor system is dependent on an
almost unanimous consent of those who live
under it, an onslaught of disrespect, or sus-
picion of the system’s effectiveness, would
ruin it. This would be the final effect of a
softening of the penalty.

What would be the effect of inviting hon-
or system violators to return to the university
after a year’s separation? These are men whom
we generally do not consider basically dishon-
orable by any means; yet they are men who
have proved that they are unwilling or unable
to fulfill the specific obligation they agreed to
when they entered Washington and Lee: not
to break the university’s code of honorable
conduct. By reaccepting these men the school
would be taking a serious chance of sacrificing
the unanimous support required by the honor
system. Such a step, just like the factor of in-
creasing violations, would poison the system
for others, who would be forced to suspect
the unanimity of support which the honor
system must have to function successfully.

So a relaxation of the rigid penalty would
invite a breakdown in rigid adherence to the
honor system, not by actually making honor
violations more attractive—for such thinking
would inflence only a small percentage of
students—but through the harmful effect
which the actions of this small percentage
would have on the majority. While the pro-
posed easing of the penalty would introduce
the element of forgiveness into the system,
it would also turn the system into a disciplinary
rather than an honor code. This transition is
indeed what some proponents of the modified
penalty foresee i in the end. But we believe that

Modification of Penalty Would Destroy System

the vast majority of the student body is still
“idealistic” enough to support a way of life
which demands at least a defined quality of
honor from every member of its society.

This same idealism has existed in many
generations of Washington and Lee men, and
the fact that these men have passed the hon-
or system down to the present student body
indicates the constant esteem in which it has
been held. The honor system does not belong
to the present, but to all those who have gone
before and even more, to all those who will
come in the future. It is something which has
been given in order that it may be passed on
intact. It is a heritage of which Washington
and Lee men ought to be jealous, for it is
almost unique among honor systems. Its gen-
uine effectiveness, its quality of stren gthening
a spirit of honor in an individual, and the fact
that it is entirely a student product and re-
sponsibility—these things set our honor sys-
tem apart and make it the magnificent asset it
is to Washington and Lee students.

The Distinctive Single Feature

It is difficult to imagine Washington and
Lee without the honor system working as ef-
fectively as we now have it. The honor system
at the same time embodies all aspects of the
spirit of Washington and Lee, and it is itself
the most distinctive single feature of the uni-
versity. It is what Washington and Lee is
known for and respected for all over the na-
tion. It is also the thing that has left the deep-
est impression on the minds and spirits of men
who have attended Washington and Lee—and
this testimony alone ought to be evidence of
the value of the honor system.

The vitality of the honor system through-
out Washington and Lee’s history, the large
part it has in the makeup of the school’s"'char-
acter” — these considerations must be added to
practical ones of the system’s effectiveness
whenever changing it is discussed. Alteration
of the honor system must be approached es-
pecially carefully because it is a_ tradition
which once interrupted could not be fully re-
stored. It is the responsibility of each member
of the student body to evaluuate the honor
system for himself and to judge whether the
change now proposed would not one day de-
stroy a spirit which is beyond replacement.

Feldspar’ 5 Degenerate Heir
Disgusts Lexington G roup

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

      

  

  

 

  
 

  

 

 

  

 

 

     

  

 

   

| By ARTHUR McBLAIR CROWLEY | Feldspar managed a smile which was
Tuesday Columnist ithe fact that fraternities discourage Tuesday Columnist recognized by all present as only
Fact... Washington and Lee has| @chievement both in academic and | | “A most incredible experience!” | half. Everyone knew how much the
eighteen social fraternities on cam- | Campus life. If this is true, each fra-| Lord Feldspar leaned against the| "@bleman had suffered from the an-
pus. Fact...Washington and Lee|‘ernity that does this is essentially | |fireplace mantel and gripped his| ties of his dissolute son, how much
is a “fraternity school.” Fact... the| Signing its own death warrant. If| | pipe firmly between his teeth. He| hope he had placed in Washington
fraternity system a fraternity discourages achievement, | | posed an elegant figure in his satin| 2nd Lee as the last chance to reform
at Washington and the overall image of the fraternity | | smoking jacket, and not the least out| ne wayward youth. But failure at
Lee could be im- will be one that just won't “sell,” of place in the M. de Breccia chau-| ©very turn
proved. before or during rush week |teau he had rented for the school| “Me and some of the guys went
Opinion . . . the A great deal of the criticism that season. His guests, all residents of | down to Hollins to puke in the chap-
fraternity system fraternities discourage achievement Lexington, had gathered around him, el. All except Skunk here, and he
at Washington and is based on the rather inaccurate | nodding and exchanging half-know-/| "¢ver got out of the parking lot!"
Lee fosters lazi- comparasion made between the all- jing glances as be began to recount _ Leonard nodded his head toward
ness, apathy, non-fraternity men's average, and | the Nar-yan Mar Campaign he had | Shunk, whe had Guteved om Of Sours
grossness, and a the all-fraternity men's average. The | personally led during the war. | and was burping noisily as he sniffed
general disregard all-fraternity men's average is con- “It’s where I got this, you know.”| Leonard's discarded Dixie Cup
for everything im- sistently below that of the all-non- | Feldspar ran his left forefinger along| “How you like my date? Picked her
portant to college Tyler fraternity men's average; therefore, a slender white sear that disappeared| YP On the way back. Says she's
life. fraternity critics say the fraternity into his collar, then began slowly) hiteh-hiking to Manitoba. Look
The above, however, is not the] stifles academic achievement. Ae- stroking the fire as the anticipation kinda like Mom donteha think?
opinion of this columnist. It is the! tually, however. the two figures can-| of his guests mounted. Although! Actually, we caught her strippin’ the
opinion of those who essentially do/ not he compared with any hope of | they were never seen, Lord Feldspar| 4% outside Boonsboro es
not understand the fraternity system! making an accurate comparasion had received over twenty decora- Leonard lottered eyes hall shut
at Washington and Lee. At a recent The two figures are the averages of | tions for bravery i his face flushed and sat down
panel discussion held at the Lex-| two groups, one oulnumbering the “Hey! What's the scoop?” | he avily _ Skunk, who grunted but
ington Presbyterian Church, Sylvia} other by more than five to on This The spell shattered. Everyone| didn't move The girl stumbled ove:
» Doughty, a Hollins student, criti-| makes any conclusion drawn from/ turned to face Leonard, Lord Feld-' the coffee table and began sneerin
cized fraternities as being “... week- comparasion highly inaccurate and| spars worthless son who at that 8! 4 copy of Sight and Sound.
end social clubs.” misleading i moment was entering the door,| L« Ss tarted shouting:
i : ‘ +} talli ve
It would probably be advantag- For example the loothball team's! pushing his date a. < the id oe on ae Pa
eous to Miss Doughty and all who/ average. that of a enaller group than chewing gum, and drinking Haig & - Sonal : oe v thos
believe as she does, to find out ex-| either the fraternity or non-fraterni.- = Haig Pinch from a Disle Cup. calted | ae at alt ee "7 ; ms
actly what the or #anizations in ques-| ty groups, is consistently higher than “Rub-a-dub-dub . .. Where have you been, son sane L ee an aa nel wi ; hen aie Sconik dn
tion really are beth; even though the football team death in Manchu: ‘a Thng : ae bi
The erganigations, aceording to the has a higher proportion of fraternity fingernails out' I mean nay no
university catalogue, are “social fra-|™embers than non-fraternity mem- rowne Ex ains ontact im | sound so bed, but man a my
ternities.” Their primary purpose] °¢fs than total fraternity students to Hater it realls hurt like he
is to fulfill the social needs of the non-fraternity students. Does thi Feidepat ik mad fled into th
tudent. It is not up to a fraternity}™een that the football team en By BLAINE BROWNELL on the evening. Bach address will, The CONTACT Steering Committes eorners of the den ere the ere
to foree a potential Phi Beta Kappa courages academic achievement and Chairman # be smpiv a lecture in the ustial hope that thes will provide af alternate! rin Leonard. then
to study or to train an all-confer-|on-fraternity students de not be- Contact ere Committee ense, bul a lecture followed by a informal medium of discussion fo his fathe
ence halfback. Hf they help with this,) @4™ the football team's overall Even with all the recent publicity panel discussion and then by a gen- students, faculty and guests with no/ Wik a ma ca —
they are going bevond their func-| @Verede is nigner’ OF course nol devoted te CON 1 AC "T the j riod. The panels will topic limitations. They will be held ke Leonard. pitch sin .
tion with good results merely means that the two cannoli question remain two professors and in Evans Dining Hall at the an- eS le
in feweues, tee feneiin af o be comypared with the purpose of CONTACT ares To rep th tudenis following each nounced times. Th: complete hed - : , i
ial fraternity to provide a sens drawing conclusion 1'CONTACT will be what we the questions from the) ule of events for Ct INTACT will be
@# brotherhood. a analler group A second criticism of ' ' = . * oted 7 any | ready mortly ane these, and He new urd. And
within a larger group, and a place|#* that they are the social ce: r or members ot te ae fol- 7 will be distributed to the ly sick!
to take a date. If a fraternity with | @ “ie university; that a student wi & the panel discussion. All this | faculty and student body oO al
the idea that its reputation will be does not ioin a fraternity dex not sould take mo more Ulan two hours The prinei proceedings of CON- e
based on the achievements of its in-| have any way to go down the read,| for each address TACT will open to townspeople! ; ed from the
dividual menrbet encourages a inywhere to take his date, or to pare! ind fi irom ole camprise t out! Man
member to do something outstand-|*¥ Aside from the help of the IFC Or schools, coll and uni- i i jose! |
ing he would not normally do. it is} ™ remerd te such fs as the IFC versiies have been notified of CON<) siean hi gu ‘ obnoxious’
all well and good. But, a fraternity | 548 Service, and allowing complete! ‘ ‘ « } 0 ‘ ypen fo alli TACT. and ail interested people will im i Sku } ‘
dees noi have to do thi Open foarues: i more fefieral anawe at iz seek oF i val whe : a ' i Tv jew’ | be weleame. We have Mm way @ pre i
Easentally the strongest argument (Continued on page 4) ol x), one in e aliernoon and eukers or just have a cup of collec.’ (Continued on page 4) | (Continued on page 4)
gl lglg

—

Ag tll tli ly

Ce

~,

a

il sill illusion msl Mai Meni easiest MgnnsilM, ni sini nisl rill illite... nll glial ill.

w

a ee a

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

General, Cavalier Matmen Deadlock, 12-12
Stewart Upsets Wahoo Co-Captain at 177

Wild Throng Packs Gym

By TOM CARPENTER

Tuesday Sports Writer
With the NCAA Basketball Tour-
nament approaching, the few leagues
that have tournaments to select their
representatives in this all important
national tourney are doing just that.

What these tourney generally
amount to is that the team that gets

hot for three days qualifies for the
NCAA.

In other words, the regular season
champions, who may have finished
the 19-4 record, do
not, because of an off night, qualify
for spot for which they have
worked all Instead, a team
that finished 10 and 13 goes to the
NCAA to their league
This entire affair seems exceedingly
outlandish to me.

The Southern
prime example of a league that has

season with a

the
year.

represent

Conference is a

been poorly represented in the
NCAA in the last two years, even
though the league leader finished

the season ranked among the ten best
teams Davidson
won the regular season title the last
two yet failed to qualify for
the NCAA both times because of up-
ets in the league tourney.

Last West Virginia was con-
idered a threat to Davidson in the

two teams
of the league
Yet neither team
made the finals of the league tourna-
VMI went to the NCAA with
a good but one that de-
erved to be playing Princeton in the
first round of the regional playoffs.
into the}
defeat,

in the nation. has

VCars

veal

tournament, but these

seemed to be the class
by a wide margin
meni

team, nol

 

This year Davidson went

eague tournament with one

  

 

imax of the annual Spring practice,

i, if '

WW

' a | i

1 PS Ba

vee et

 

Warren Stewart brings General fans screaming to their feet as he humbles Virginia co-captain Alex Wells
in highlight of match.

Varsity Gridders Blank Alumni;
parks, Spangler Pace Offense

By DAVID DOUGHERTY
Tuesday Sports Editer

 

 

play, and the Alumni held the

Generals short.

The Washington and Lee coaching
staff, however, benefited greatly from
the afternoon of enjoyment for the

The Spring version of Washington
players as they observed the various

and varsity football team ’ : ’
fought off a powerful initial surge|of freshman Rudd Smith, the Gen- S'rengths of the Generals. Of particu-
by the Alumni on Saturday ,and/erals went to work again in the sec- lar merit was the improved of-
went on to upset the former Gener-|ond period with a nifty offensive | fense which will attempt to restore
12-0. The game,, cli-| thrust. Kendrick, from his own ter-| point-producing for the hungry Gen-

Alter an exchange of punts, high-

Lee's lighted by the long towering boots

al gridders,

*

 

ritory, apparently set the drive in| erals. The varsity handled a large|
motion with a keeper around right|*4¥ad_ handily, and offered hopes |

was staged on a sloppy Wilson field — a
end. One of the afternoon’s myriad| for a bright fall in 1965.

before a small crowd.

 

:
l
that to one of the top ten teams in}; he Alumni, paced by the passing Penalties returned the ball to its
the country, and came out of the! combination of Jim Oram and Bill ——s ar. 4 Kendrick /Tankmen Beat Hoyas;
tournament with defeat number two! David, quickly drove into varsity| Promptly slipped around left enc or |
and no trip to NCAA. West Virginia,! territory, and from the 40. former| 4 dazzling thirty yard scamper. ‘Four Records Broken
\ iret ing sc ig i j + i = ? |
with its first losing season in a good) star fullback Henry Sackett busted| Sparks then maintained the var- | Washington and Lee's  varsit;
aan waigpes Davidson by two/to the 15 with a fancy jaunt sity's momentum with a fierce | lemming te - finally mee 1 theis
points in the emifinals and went to| The varsity was pushed closer to! eight yard burst up the middle, aeunaliel cei a ne
taree overtimes In oa final aie wall with a face mask violation) and then little freshman Pat At- Sites vaity ‘of "Watton DC po
a very mediocre William and | “*) whieh put the ball on the eight. | kins followed by reeling off a ten | Saturd y with 1 resoundin 10-15
+] — . Ss das g » g «}!
oa | At this point the Generals tough-| yard gallop off tackle. Kendrick | — ne rer the Hoyas. The +
The Mountaineers changed their , i “s : victory over the oyas. The meet.
ened, and after a pass interference| then smeothly mixed up the attack dually echeduled for 1 at
offense about a week or two before : ‘ = . originally seheduled for last week,
eall in the end zone against the’ with a quick pass to right end ot ton . al
the tournament, found a second Alumni pushed the former General Scott Miller on the 16. From that ee ee ah ee
econd stringer Marty Lentz who I ag : : : ; break of flu on the Georgetown

became

on

uddenly a productive seor-
to the tournament
the way. was a high

He once scored

er, and went
title. Lentz, by
school All-American
72 points in one game and averaged
t game. He
really fit the West Vir-
until recently and now

hes playing like an all-star.

better than 35 points a

neve into

Linlia offe Tis

 

The only legitimate reason I ean
see for these league playoffs is as

raising device. It hurt

(Continued on page 4)

a fund the |

Andrew, White Are Co-Captains; |» booming into the Alumni| rick which was both a
Head W&L Grapplers Next Year

rh Val iy wri
nounced vestertday

drew and Kemble Whit

ieam ifi-

An-

had Mat)

 

J Hilt

that

elected co-captain of next vears
team. They will replace 1965's strong
tri-eaplain Peter Winfield, Butch
We and Tom Stover, who led the

Ceenerai to a i-3-1 record i

 

White

Nndrew

th ey

Appliances

Dh he hh ee

SESE POS ESE EES SOE SSSSSSSSSS55550555O55565554056 i
ts

Adair-Hutton, Inc.

Lexington, Va.

+
+
+
+
+
$
Headquarters for Men's Wear :
;
We Welcome Your Charge Account :

be

”

SEPP SECSS SSCS SSS SESS SS SS F546666664666666645566546

back to the 23, Oram nailed
on the 40 by an aggressive hoard of |

tacklers.

was point, Don Spangler brought the
crowd up hollering with a mag-
‘nificent saunter around his own
| left end in which he deftly avoided
some tacklers and powered over

hard running of Tom Sparks, others. The freshman’'s touchdown i.

quarterback Bryant Kendrick, and | fel ones or an ae tie
freshman back Don Spangler. Af- | = attempt at ' € eonvererEm, thus
ter a pass interference call against bringing the score to 12-0,

the Alumni in the end zone, Sparks
then rolled inte the promise land
from two yards out. The try for
the conversion came on a running

team

the outcome that everyone had ex-
pected resulted as the Generals set
pool records and four schoo! records |
the overwhelming victory. Bill,
Wildrick set a school record in the!
200-vard butterfly and the 440-yard|
freestyle relay team of co-captain!
The second half was highlighted by! Skip Chase, Gary Bokinsky, Bill
a varsity drive down to the Alumni| Wildrick, and Bart Taylor turned in
goal line engineered by quarterback | a record time
Larry Craig mixed up Record Set
plays as he threw to Seott Miller for The

The varsity then took possession
and romped downfield behind the

 

Craig his| in Butterfly
record time in the 200-yvard

sent Sparks and! butterfly was a superb 2:02 by Wild-

st down

school and
interior line for others, and smartly| pool record. The Hoyas, as in

ran himself for

most

* j ; a e
valuable yardage ; events of the afternoon were not in

 

 

 

 

The drive was thwarted by the! contention in this event
aroused Alumni on the one, and!| Nelson Head. an outstanding fresh-
The driving spirit of Jamie Andrew! when given anothe: opportunity by|man swimmer, then set a mark in
Aa elearly evident on Saturday Alumni fumble the Generals’ the 200-vard hackstroke with a time
evonimng fended off Vir=) wer unable to move into paydirt| of 2:05. This was an impressive
finias Cary wart with a supe rb! from close range. The contest end- periormance tor a treshman. and
display of stubborn aggressiven . ed deep in umm territory as the| Head will he expected to chip away
The Delt junior from Baltimore will! weary eleven struggled sloppily in! at his own mark in future seasons
| be counted on next year at either ithe closing minutes ' (Continued on page 4)
157 or 167, the former at wheach he!|
pil e290n Although |

   

possessor of an outstandi

 

 

a aa ar a

coms emit) Send the Ring-tum Phi Home
ex quad. |

cy rch Bob This Semester -

ousiy battled hack

Unless, of course, you want your parents to be kept

in the dark

ONLY $3.00

Gifts, Items for the Home

CONTACT JIM REDENBAUGH OR RICK CARRELA,

captain

W &L Closes

Season 7-3-1

By DAVID DOUGHTERY
Tuesday Sports Editor
Washington and Lee’s Warren Stewart stunned a wild
throng in Doremus Gymnasium on Saturday night by man-
handling Virginia’s Alex Wells and allowing the Generals to tie
the Cavaliers, 12-12. Wells, the Wahoo captain with a spark-

ling record, was virtually conceded*
the match in most predictions.
The Generals suffered a
blow in the opening encounter at
123 as tri-captain Butch West was
upset by Don Ruths, 7-3. West made
the match tight with a reversal in
the third period which brought the
score to 5-3, but the quick Ruths
reversed West to put the contest out
of reach.

WEL came back to knot the
score when Dick Musick won a de-
cision at 130 over Bob Rhodes, 4-1.
Rhodes, who had the advantage of
having his hand-clasping efforts go
undetected by the referee, was no
match for the former Norfolk
Academy star, who smartly record-
ed a takedown and reversal be-
falling short with several pinning
positions,

severe

Wahoo co-captain Bill Patten put
the Cavaliers back in front, 6-3, with
a 3-0 victory over Kemble White at

 

- ail

a 4-1 victory.

several questionable calls, |

nevertheless wrestled an aggressive!
i

match.

exciting duel at 147, tri-|
Tom Stover sneaked by
Patton MeCarthy, 1-0, by preserving

In an

a lead which he gained from a neu-|

tral position in the second period.)
The decision brought the Generals
even in the match, 6-6, going into |
the 157 pound clas: i

Two former Episcopal High School |

teammates were pitted against each 1

157, as
fashioned a
Tucke

out in

other at Peter
Winfield
Dick
Generals
quick!

tri-captain
fine shut-out
i-0 to put the
front, 9-6. After
takedown, Win-

ovel

 

 

    

| «i
i eit

 

field seemingly had Tucker in sever-
al fatal holds, but the game Cavalier

; managed to avoid all of them deftly.

Winfield then got a reversal in
the second period to ice the decision.

The W&L fans then had the
pleasure to see one of the smooth-
est and most knowledgeable wrest-
lers in the East in Virginia’s Cary
Stewart, who defeated gutty Jamie
Andrew in a display of flawless
wrestling by both men. Cary, an
older brother of W&L'’s Warren
Stewart, optpointed Andrew, 4-6,
at 167, and while Andrew did lit-
tle on the offensive, his game bat-
tle against the experienced Balti-
morean was superb, Stewart tried
no less than eight pinning holds
on Andrew, and Jamie remark-
ably avoided tragedy each time.

In the second period, he fought off
a perfectly sunk cradle to avoid
a pin, and in the last fifteen sec-

Dick Musick methodically works over Cavalier Bob Rhodes in recording

When the meet finally took place, 157. White, understandably disturbed; onds of the match he struggled to
over

fend off the fatal crucifix put on
him by Stewart.

With the score tied at 9-9, Warren
Stewart then dominated the former

| McCallie Schoo! (Chattanooga) great,

Alex Wells, 4-2, to put W&L in
lead. Wells took an early lead
with the takedown, and indeed had
Warren on his back at first, but the
powerful sophomore soon took
charge by reversing Wells, and then
nearly pinning the Wahoo co-cap-
With two points gained from
near-fall, Stewart could confi-
dentiy go to work, and on several
brought the crowd
screaming to their feet with dramatic

the

un

‘

occasions he

(Continued on page 4)
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  

A NEW PLAQUE has been unveiled on the War Memorial
Gate on the front campus of Washington and Lee. Absent
for many years through lack of funds, the bronze plaque com-
pletes the Gate’s original design.

M/ Law Wives
Sponsor Benefit
Card Party

Washington and Lee Law
will sponsor their secon dannual

 

 

wives

 

“Benefit Bridge’ party this Fri-
day evening, March 5. Funds re-
ceived from donors at this affair
in Evens Dining Hall will be given
to the Law School for use in schol-|
arships.

Tickets are now being sold (one|
dollar a person) and may be ob-|
tained from Mrs. Ann Payne by!
| calling HW 3-5279. Tickets will also
be available at the door.

Other Card Games Allowed

Tables may be arranged and re-
served by calling Mrs. Payne, who
has stated that with the probable
exception of Poker, other card games
will be allowed. Tables and cards
will be provided , along with re-
freshments.

There will be door prizes, which
have been donated by Lexington
merchants, and the Law Wives insist
that the evening is not mean for
women only; students are encour-

 

Tyler on Fraternity System

(Continued from page 2)
to the criticism is possible.
There are eighteen different social

a student could not get into a house
he wanted to get into, or could not
get into a house at all; but this is

fraternities on campus with eigh-| the way the system works and it is
teen different groups of members.) a legitimate criticism. This, however,
Some fraternities are interested in| seldom happens and most who wish

things others are not. This leads to
a great deal of diversity within the
system. In the past this diversity has
allowed almost every student who
wished to join a fraternity the op-
portunity to join one. Undoubtedly
there have been instances in which

to pledge do pledge.

Those who do not join a fraterni-
ty when they could join one and
then criticize what the fraternity of-
fers that they can’t have, are com-
pletely off base. If these students
want the advantages a fraternity of-
fers, they should have joined one.
They should not stand outside the
system and say the university should
provide what the fraternity provides.
If these students had wanted to go
to a school where the university
provided ‘the campus social life, they
should have gone to such a school
and not a fraternity school such as
Washington and Lee.

Feldspar Suan
As W&L Man

(Coutinued from page 2)

Leonard fell forward on his head,
then began trying to do a somer-
cault. “Flooded the car tonight, pops.
Hit a fire hydrant in the Hollins’
parking lot. Man, that guy in the
chapel almost blew his cool when he
saw all that water standing around.
He started screamin’ somethin’ about
how he was gonna see everybody at
W&L on Social Pro. I tried to tell
him Skunk and me had done it all
by ourselves, but he didn’t believe it.
I couldn’t understand why he was!
so upset.

Carpenter on Tourneys
(Continued from page 3)

league to send a poor representative
to the NCAA. I believe that the
Southern Conference and all other
leagues that have these post season
play-offs should re-examine the ad-
vantage s and disadvantages of them.

I think they will find that they do
'more harm than good. The abolish-
ment of the tournaments will mean
better representation by those errant
leagues and thus a better image in
“| the eyes of the nation’s college

| basketball fans.

Va ad dh—hU™mUrmCrCtC~C~—=i‘“—SO™OC*™C™:™C:CC

(Continued from page 3) Tankmen Crush Hoyas
holds on Wells. | (Continued from page 3)
|

(Arthur’s note: Stories of this na-
ture have been known to go on in-
definitely. Leonard's will undoubt-|
edly continue next Saturday night.)

 

Dou

In the final encounter John Bo-
gart wrestled a fine match in bowing | Pandien :
: aylor followed with an an-
to hunky Bob Blokleman at heavy- : Se eS
: | ticipated record in the 100-yard free-
weight. After no takedown in the| utyle, turning in a time of 48:1. He
first period, Blokeman ran up his3-0/ was followed by the 400-yard free-
wargin with a neutral positi opnoint)| stvie relay team of Chase. Gary Bo-
= a Fay a | Kinsky, Wildrick, and Taylor, with
he Wal aa ot m vy or aie 1! the time of 3:14.5, which is now both
the Wahoo was trantically searching, | 4 school and pool standard.
and in so doing allowed the Generals | The meet with Georgetown marked
. 29.91 , '
to tie, 12-12. | the final appearance of seniors Andy
| Broaddus, Skip Chase, Howie Busse,
Please Support The Huey Long) assistant freshman coach Dave Geer,
League. and manager John Heinzerling.

Taylor Sets Record

t
Bart

 

 

aged to bring dates and interfra-
ternity competition has also been
B Th suggested.

Dr. Barrett Awarded Grant
(Continued from page 1)

ter’s degree from Mercer University
and his Ph.D. from the University
of North Carolina, has been profes-
sor of Spanish and head of the de-
partment of romance languages at
Washington and Lee since 1948. He
served as public affairs officer in
Bogota, Colombia and Quito, Ecua-
dor from 1951-53. He is the author of
two textbooks and numerous articles
on Spanish literature and has trans-
lated several novels by the Brazilian
author, Erico Verissimo.

 

 

LEXINGTON, VA | ROBART 3-3424)

 

STARTS WED.

+i.

\

swe ASana Karzaan Phoouerom

 

 

 

WED.-THURS.

The
Blue Angel

 

re
eda

ick sr 7

My
7

a aL (BERTO

 

Marlene Dietrich

 

ty if

tan TT

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Immediately
PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 34-2211
PEECSEESSESESERESSCESESESSY oo
RR TE OEE IE 7.

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

Quick Service

Shirt Service as You Like It

b Bring Your Complete Laundry
to Us

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY

te

SSESEESESESESESSEETEE TEESE
Seeeeeeeseseeeeeeereeere

 

A Sls

: : CLEANERS

: The :| HO 3-262 i
7
2 COLLEGE INN 3 . |j
+ . “Your Campus Neighbors ;
soecccccccccccocccoooces ti i a |

 

“nanan

Your Full Service Bank

in Lexington

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Discusses CONT

(Continued from page 2) |
dicting exactly how many people |
will participate in CONTACT, but}
we strongly encourage all students |
to bring their dates and guests to |
any, or all, of the activities. The|
more people that can share CON-
TACT the better. CONTACT has
been widely publicized through the
University Information Services and
the groundwork is being laid for
maximum newspaper, radio and tele-
vision coverage.

CONTACT has been planned to in-
sure as much informality as possible.
In this way, students will be able to
discuss topics of particular interest
in greater depth, and the guest
speakers will always be available
to autograph their books or discuss
their contents. It is the hope of the
Steering Committee that CONTACT
will provide a relaxed and stimulat-
ing weekend atmosphere that will
offer a contrast to the normal party
weekends. We sincerely feel that any
student who takes part seriously in
the symposium will find it rewarding
and interesting. It is a rare oppor-|
tunity to meet and talk with men
of exceptional background and ac-)|
complishment.

The Steering Committee does not)
suggest that CONTACT will neces-|
sarily be a reflection of any “intel-
lectual atmosphere” at Washington |
and Lee. We feel it safe to assume |
that any relatively educated person |
in our age group is eager to learn

 

NOTICE

|} Head Newman....Asst.

ACT’S Purposes

and has a curiosity of the things
about him. If CONTACT is success-
ful, then it is only what we had ex-
1. If CONTACT is not well at-
tended—if it fails—then we must re-
member that this will probably kill
the possibilities for another student
program of this type, and the cynics
will feel more justified in taking
more polemie shots at Hairy South-
ern Collegian, CONTACT is not out
to prove or dis-prove anything. It
is a completely student controlled
symposium for the benefit of the
students and faculty in our collegiate
community. CONTACT is clearly an
unusual opportunity, and one should
take advantage of it.

pectec

The Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box 899,
Lexington, Virginia,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-

ington, Virginia, under the act of
March 3, 1878.
STEPHEN P. SMITH

Tuesday Editor-in-Chief

RICHARD N. CARRELL
Business Manager
Editorial Board
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
News Editor

Mike Lash

Jim Crothers

 

 

Steve Saunders..... ..Associate Editor
| Roger Milami......... .o Assistant Editor
Lin Hlartin..... ooeeeAssistant Editor
Geoff Chalmers some hotography
Mac Rives : ns Columnist
Ward Briggs Columnist
Dave Marchese ssee-seemene al ae
Tom Carpenter ssieeeenanneiannl Columnist
Jim DeYoung... a Columnist
F SORRTR GOT Gi acacscsesescczececeescsensecesced

A. debate team of Bill Grant and}
Rick Kneipper earned a record of
four wins and two loses at the Uni-
versity of Richmond last weekend.

Grant and Kneipper finished sixth
among sixteen teams in the tourna- |
ment They beat Randolph-Macon, |
Okla. Central, among others.

LEE t eee ee eeteeee

 

 

4 %
%
¢ LEXINGTON
%
* CLEANERS
z 1 Hour Dry Cleaning
: COMPLETE SHIRT SERVICE |
Geee eke obo oe oho oho oe oho afe ofe fe ae oho fe fe abe oho ole abe oe oe of

 

Cartoonist

 

 

CENTRAL LUNCH

TRY OUR FAMOUS
SWISS BURGER

Serving food and beverages

Mon.-Thurs., 6 a.m.-12 p.m.
Fri.-Sat., 6 a.m.-1 a.m.
Sunday, 6 a.m.-12 p.m.

Telephone HO 3-2834

 

 

 

 

 

SWEET MUSIC FOR TELEPHONE SWITCHING

Add electronics to tele:
and sor
Such as

hone switching,

ne pretty exciti t

f nes happen

pendently by GT&E scientists. it will
make many new telephone services

you might wi

if research is one of your a
y gn

iis in life
ybout Gen

mnt to know more

a fast-action push-button possible eral Telephone & Electronics. Full infor
phone that “diais’ numbers by a suc General Telephone & Electronics Lab mation is available from your Campus
cession of short, musical tones instead oratories contributes the basic support Placement Director Or write to General
of a lengthy sequence of impulses to the GTAE family of companies for Telephone & Electronics Laboratories.

And beyond the “Touch Calling” product innovations such as this. in fact 730 Third Ave., New York. N.Y. 10017
phone is a new Electronic Automatic basic research is our solid base for con

Telephone Exchange developed inde

GENERAL TELEPHONI

130 TR AAT +s Gabi

ase leepers cyeeung bes @ 4d tee) 6) Lebes

tinued future growth

#7

" ) a | .
‘ Xx |: | I:
4 « 4 4 4
wibl eigen ' bene@

eure

CLrRONICS

Vem lap le Auta Lie gy

&

onmenan

ae)

“ * opveee lecee
