I ee ee

nn ee

 

 

Friday
Edition

Che Ring-tun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Friday
Edition

 

Volume LXV

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1965

Number 29

 

Master Plan To Be Outlined

ODK Leadership Forum
To Discuss Self-Study Plan

By BILLY CANNON
News Editor

Dr William Hinton, Chairman of Washington and Lee’s Self-Study
Committee, will present to the Omicron Delta Kappa Leadership Forum
Wednesday, February 17, the University’s master plan for self-study,
touching upon its present value and future implications.

The meeting will be held at 7:00 p.m. in Evans Dining Hall. After Hin-
ton’s presentation there will be a question and answer session at which
time coffee will be served. All members of the Faculty Committee for Self-
Study will be present to answer questions.

The leadership group which includes the presidents of all W&L ac-
tivities was chosen to hear the presentation because it was felt that a de-
tailed presentation could not be given effectively to the student body as
a whole. The ODK Forum allows all segments of the University to be rep-
resented yet keeps the group small enough for an effective questioning
period. Other members of the student body who are particularly interested
in the presentation are invited to attend.

Omicron Delta Kappa President Steve Smith urged all members to be
present. Smith said that it would also be helpful to look over the de-
tailed presentation concerning the self-study given to each member this
week.

Hinton, head of W&l’s Psychology Department explained, “Washing-
ton and Lee University has achieved a reputation for high educational
quality and holds a position of dis-
tinction among American institu-
tions of higher learning. It has
achieved this position through the
effective cooperation of its trustees,
members of its faculty and adminis-
tration, its students, and its alumni. |
These groups, working together)
during many decades, have sought
to maintain and improve the qual-

 

 

Fraternity Academic Standings

   

   

   

D, Teh Bt Fe vasisncviecsscssesscesesessscccsssscecssccesscenecssnceenscereeensrsnsersrerettensseseet 1.711
BD, Gham Peal Tbh ciccscssssssssscesssesesssssorssosessersenvesszssesevsesssemnesessessovnresesees 1,602
I ecsidiiccininiccwnisinsseeennane 1,588
a ited etictigenceniieennnnnenn 1.542
BD, Es GE IO aicsetctstnccnecsiaincsnonnsnnnnssn 1,532

Non-fraternity men’s AVETAGE ........csccccsssesscecsssssessssssssessenssesesesesees 1.532
Ta TI isi sestsisstehiticscisnasccicsseossnncsessiinecssssrssinntesstsscnenssisesusinasenne 1.440
F, Te ID inaaieiessssstenesscaszesessssasszsesssnsssssssvecsssssstsesenssnssenssnssscnnnecsisese 1.438
DE FN FI vointcisicniessiictminncccioncannneineninemiinnens 1,434

Al Temberey BABIN BVOTONID occsccscccssccsssescerccscsserstscesessoncsesessorensesseens 1.425
©. GR TI ccreeernensssssorercsizsrnnicrenicssinnnemunsmnmnnmnenmnsnnnnins 1.403
SD, Be TE BI sesececerssessiessexsssvcvesssssccsssensestenonecesesstorbenssegnqnesessesboseotesens 1,382
FE OE an ints ccieiniicemannionas 1.358
Oe ices eee 1.349
SD, DE ikcictrcieennnsininsinniinunnimuntiannnsin 1,330
TE, Fe Tm TR seacsscccsesscssessssstncntescascsnniennecsinpsseiescssssnosesesenveiionssien 1,329

15. Pi Kappa Phi 1315
TE, TR FEIN vrisntssshisrtsceinsscrniccsiniimesitiniinmncsin 1.303

 

3F., Giemat P a TIBI csceesssccssssccscasizssnsccsassencsesscesssnsscsessesncenesssioninnensases 1.247
BE. FR TE FE rctristsristisiesitriseninnscnsimnnsntnemnmnnsauinnen 1,235
AILL MEN’S AVERAGE oeecccissccsessssseessessessenceneenene 1.447

 

 

 

 

ZBT Regains Top Place;
SPE, Delt Finish 2nd, 3rd;
PEP Makes Jump to 4th

By SAM McCHESNEY

Zeta Beta Tau regained top academic standing last semes-
ter after a semester’s dethronement. The ZBT house average
was 1.711 as compared with their last June’s average of 1.640.

Although ZBT’s average is higher than PiKA’s top av-
erage of 1.684 last June, 1964, the all men’s average, the all
fraternity men’s average, and the all non-fraternity men’s av-
erage fell from last June. The all men’s average fell from
1.509 to 1.447, the all fraternity men’s average fell from 1.489
to 1.425, and the all non-fraternity men’s average fell from
1.578 to 1.533.

Following ZBT’s 1.711, Sig Ep came in second with a
1.602, Delta Tau Delta came in third with a 1.558, Phi Ep

 

By TOM DOSS er of the New York Times and Mr.

Noted Conservative C.P. Ives Accepts Bid
To Speak Here On ‘Operation U ncheck’

*fourth with a 1.542, Lambda Chi fifth
with a 1.532, and DU sixth with a
1.440. The non-fraternity men’s av-
erage ranks them in a tie for fifth,
with a 1.532.

There have been some significant
changes in the scholastic standings of
the individual fraternities. Marked im-

and author of Kennedy Without Tears; | provement came from Phi Epsilon Pi,

C. P. Ives, a noted conservative and
an associate editor of the Baltimore
Sun, has accepted an invitation to
speak at Washington and Lee’s CON-
TACT weekend, according to Steer-
ing Committee chairman Blaine
Brownell. Mr. Ives’ address, entitled

 

ity of education by continually im-
proving the University’s programs, |
| services, faculty, and facilities.

“Washington and Lee University,
wishes to maintain its position of |
distinction at a time when the needs
of society and the programs of oth-|
er institutions are changing rapidly |
and significantly. It has, therefore,
been decided that an institutional
self-study will be conducted to al-
low (1) an appraisal to be made of
the University’s current strengths
and opportunities for immediate
and future improvement and (2) recommendations for change to be form-
ulated and implemented now and in the future.”

 

The self-study is to be undertaken for two related and complementary
purposes:

To prepare Washington and Lee for a visit by a committee from
the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Col-
leges and Schools. Such a visit, under the Institutional Self-Study
and Periodic Visitation Program, is required by the association
each ten years and should be completed at Washington and Lee
in 1966. In preparation for the visit, it will be necessary to com-
plete a comprehensive self-study and prepare a thorough self-
study report.

To provide the University with more comprehensive and
definitive plans for its own future development than now exist.
These plans can provide a foundation for further planning effort in
years ahead.

“We have no worries about meeting the Association's accreditation
standards,” Hinton said. “However, the real purpose of this study is much
broader and deeper. We hope to study all aspects of life here at Wash-
ington and Lee. The recommendations of each of our committees will be
made available for future use in possible improvement of facilities and
conditions.”

The self-study program in itself will not lead to any direct
action concerning future actions. The information obtained from
the study, however, may be beneficial to the famulty, administra-
tion, and Board of Trustees when they meet to consider possible
future actions.

The study does contain sections which ask the individual
committees to judge the University’s needs in five and ten years
and make recommendations concerning these needs.

“We can't determine how useful the study will be,” Hinton
commented, “Only time will reveal the long run implications of a
program of this nature.”

The target date for the completion of the program is January 1966

Thus far the entire study has been in the hands of the Self-Study Commit- |

tee. They have met 17 times since October to set up the basic objectives
and work out the mechanics of the program
Aside from Hinton the committee is composed of Dean Lewis W.
Adams, Dean Edward C. Atwood, Dean Charles P. Light, Jr.. Dean W
W! Pusey, Mr. James W. Whitehead, Assistant to the President, Dr. William
(Continued on page 4)

Ree

I te

Washington and Lee's campus will undergo a two year perusal as part
af the University’s self-study program

be presented Wednesday to the ODK Leadership Forum.

A master plan for the study will)

“Operation Uncheck,” will deal with
our national government from a con-
servative viewpoint. His address is
scheduled for Sunday afternoon, Mar.
14.

In announcing Mr. Ives’ acceptance,
Brownell stated that “Mr. Ives is con-
sidered by many to be one of the
most able exponents of the Conserva-
tive political philosophy in America
today, and he is therefore unusually
qualified to provide a certain ‘political
balance’ for CONTACT.”

A native of Connecticut, Mr. Ives
attended Brown University where he
graduated cum laude in 1925, receiv-
ing an A.B. degree and in 1938 he re-
ceived an M.A, degree from Yale Uni-
versity. He was associated with vari-
ous newspapers before joining the
Baltimore Sun in 1939. He is current-
ly an associate editor for the Sun.
He is also co-editor for the Burke
Newsletter.

Mr. Ives was a visiting lecturer in
political science at Goucher College
from 1952 to 1956. His most recent
college appearances were in a pro-
gram of the Edmund Burke Society
at the Georgetown University anni-
versary commemoration and on an
orientation panel for freshmen at
Goucher College.

In commenting on Mr. Ives’ topic,
Brownell stated that “his topic will
offer an excellent comparison to the
addresses delivered by Thomas Wick-

 

Speaking Wednesday night to a
Thrust meeting, Joseph Shane, foresaw
the coming of a New Ethie forced on
| reaton by the inexorable trend
of the cybernetic revolution.

Mr. Shane, an official labor organiz-
er for the International Ladies Gar-
ment Workers Union (ILGWU), holds
a master’s degree in psychology from
the City College of New York.
| At the outset of his lecture, Mr.
| Shane pointed out how the cyber-
| netic revolution was creating great
| unemployment among the office
| workers and minor executives just
as the industrial revolution has re-

placed the laborer throughout indus -
try. Years ago the machine started
to replace the laborer, and now in
similar fashion, the eybernetic sys-
tem composed of a computer en-
twined ina self-regulating system of

 

 

feedback, is beginning to replace
the white-collared worker
Shain wl wee | “vet il ‘ <ample
attesia » the fantastic speed and
| curacy of the eybernetic system. Union
Carbide, for example, when conten
plating what chemicals and in what
store them in tow bse

quantities to ’
ted

storage probk an

constructed warehouse, t hun
dreds of pos ible
the to find the

combination ef chemical

computer
and quanti
ties
American Airlines has adopted a
similar system which verifies any
reservation on any plane, provides
altrnaie planes if the desired one is
| filled, drafts iineraries, and even
corrects the ticket agent if he should
make a mistake, All this, of course,
| is completed within microseconds.

}
1) | Cre

opumum |

Douglass Cater, Special Assistant to
the President. Mr. Ives is a master of

ernment, and his participation in
CONTACT will be most valuable. His
address will be a ‘must’ for those
who wish to see two viewpoints ex-
pertly applied to a current _ politi-
cal topic.

Mr. Ives is the fifth speaker to be
named by the CONTACT Steering
Committee. The others are Dr. James
W. Silver, past president of the South-
ern Historical Society and author of
Mississippi: the Closed Society; Thom-
as G. Wicker, chief of the Washing-
ton Bureau of the New York Times

 

 

Cc. P. IVES
... Noted Conservative

 

Thrust Speaker Says Automation
Calls For A New Ethical System

As a result of these systems, US.
Steel and Chrysler have laid off 5,000
office workers within the last two
years. Furthermore, the unemploy-
ment of teenagers has jumped to 15
per cent, and to 30 per cent for Negro
teenagers. Shane pointed out that 38
million people in U.S. are poverty-
stricken, and that 20 per cent of the

the national income.

Because of the advent of this vast
and revolutionary system, Shane feels
that society must change its ethics. A
new technology has historically ini-
tiated a new ideology, he stated,
| Hence the Protestant Ethics which
presently are the core of the west-
|ern civilization’s ideology and which
lare based on an economy of scarcity
| will As man be-
he will ach
and

 

won be outmoted
comes more productive,
abundances

hased on the

lieve an economy of
» new ethic

ai the

acceptan
| eybernetic system and a new
| bill of rights

| Perhaps the most significant change
would be scrapping of the a
that work hard for
|

| wealth

umption
must his
the the
premise that wealth produced by ma
wealth
and that each individual is by right
entitled to an adequate income

Shane sum-

and receplance ol

| without man’s aid is

Concluding his lecture
marized that the system of eybernetics
has necessitated

|of our ideology
Old value
er valid

who are

a critical

in the

inspection
new coniex
wnd tradition are no long
The people must elect lead
ie overwhelmed by tra
dilen, bul @pen to new ideas and con

cep

critical analysis as applied to gov-|

Col. Francis P. Miller, a special assis-
tant in the Department of State; and
Douglass Cater, special assistant to
President Johnson.

Each speaker’s topic is planned to
fit into the overall theme of CON-
TACT: “The American Experience:
Its Implications for the Individual
American, the American Nation, and
the World.”

The weekend will consist of ad-
dresses by each of the principal speak-
ers, panel discussions and seminars.
It will begin on Friday afternoon, |
March 12 and end on Sunday, March
14.

Glee Club, Symphony Join
For Concert in Roanoke

The Washington and Lee University
Glee Club will sing with the Roanoke
Symphony Orchestra in Roanoke Sat-
urday, February 13.

The 65-voice group will join the
symphony, Gibson Morrissey conduct-
ing, for several show tunes at the
Symphony Ball in Hotel Roanoke.
Joint numbers include the March of
the Peers, from Gilbert and Sullivan's

which moved from fifteenth to fourth
this semester, Delta Upsilon which
moved from seventeenth place to
sixth place, and Phi Delt which moved
from thirteenth to eighth place among
fraternities. PiKA, last semester's
leader dropped to tenth place, Phi
Kap dropped from fifth to fourteenth,
Sigma Chi dropped from seventh to
thirteenth place, Sigma Alpha Epsil-
on dropped from eighth to seventeenth
and Kappa Alpha fell from ninth to
sixteenth.

Of the five largest houses numeri-
cally on campus, ZBT, Sigma Phi Ep-
silon and Delta Tau Delta ranked
first, second, and third respectively.

Nine houses this semester made
below a 14 accumulative average as
compared with four houses last June,
and only five houses made above a
15 average as compared with eight
last June.

Over the last five semesters, ZBT has
ranked first on campus four of these
semesters. In direct contrast Phi Psi
has ranked last four out of the last
five semesters.

It is interesting to note that out of
those thirteen freshmen making a 2.5
or better, three are Sig Ep’s, three are

 

“Tolanthe,” and “Tonight” and “Some- |
where,” from “West Side Story.” Sen-
(Continued on page 4)

For Mock Convention

 

Phi Ep’s, two are Independents, and
two are ZBT’s. The remaining three
represent the Lambda Chi, Sigma Nu,

jand Pi Phi houses.

Judge D’Auria To Lead Seminar
On Local Politics April 9-11

Tentative plans for a “Seminar on

Three sessions are scheduled. The

 

population earn only 4.7 per cent of|

Local Politics” to be held in mid- first is planned as an open meeting
April were outlined last night by! at duPont auditorium; the second as
Dave Mayfield and Steve Saunders,|a seminar for approximately 20-30
Coordinators of the 1968 Mock Con-/ people; and the third as a closed ses-
vention, in a report to the Executive! sion restricted to members of the
Committee Mock Convention staff.

Labeled as a “small and informal! Mayfield and Saunders empha-
primer in practical politics,” the| sized that this seminar was primar-
seminar is planned for April 9-11,| ify for the benefit of Mock Con-
1965. The Honorable Michael M.| vention personnel, but that the
D'Auria, former Judge of the Nas-| two extra enesiena were included
sau County Court (N.Y.), has ac-! so that students and faculty mem-
cepted an invitation to lead the) bers might have an opportunity
discussion at these seminars to hear D'Auria. D'Auria enjoys

Judge D'Auria is one of the | ® reputation as a witty and hard-
youngest men ever to sit on the | hitting public speaker,
county court bench. Now thirty- In other sections of the report,
seven years old, he is an acknow- | a budget was submitted to the E.C.
ledged authority on the workings | for consideration, and the progress
of local and state government, and | of the nine regional managers was
has proven adept in the art of | discussed. A letter from ‘64 Mock
politics. He practices law as a | Convention Chairman Phil Sharp
partner in the firm of Lebkuecher

 

|was read, commending the idea of

   
 
 

and D'Auria.

7, ; -

HE ADC ARTE! ich

KENTUCKY wor MORTON

>
\

DELECATIO

HOOQTS la

j
j

  
  

~
=

Scenes preceding last year's mock

oe

(Continued on page 4)

 
     
 
 
  
     
  

i OCLECT"Y

FOR
PRESIDENT

   
 

'
7
a é

mvention cause us to wonder if the

1068 Mock Convention is to be held in ‘68 of will enthusiawn be burned

burned out by 19657
Page 2

Che RKing-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association
Friday Edition

Self-Study: Now’s Our Chance

A little known, but important, survey being conducted at
W&L has received so little publicity that few students realize
more than the fact that a self-study is in progress.

In order to maintain its position of distinction as an insti-
tution of high educational quality at a time when the needs of
society and the programs of other institutions are changing
significantly, it was decided that an institutional self-study
would be conducted. Thus, an appraisal could be made of the
University’s current strengths and opportunities for improve-
ment, and recommendations for change could be formulated
and implemented.

The self-study was undertaken to prepare for a visit from
the Commission on Colleges required of all accredited insti-
tutions, and to provide the University with more comprehen-
sive and definitive plans for its own future development.

It becomes immediately obvious that students, as well as
faculty members, alumni, trustees, and administrative officials,
must be included in such a self-study if it is to have a more
nearly complete degree of validity. Without the student view-
point, the self-study would be grossly lacking in perspective
in the areas of class scheduling, grading, community service,
the library, publications, religious life, discipline, student gov-
ernment and organizations, the honor system, extra-class ac-
tivities, fraternities, dining halls and dormitories, intra-mural
athletics, inter-collegiate athletics, and student health services.
The void left by a lack of student participation in such areas
is obvious.

One important aspect of student life now omitted in the
self-study program is that of non-fraternity life, particularly
in reference to facilities (the need for a real student union).
Perhaps such a blatantly deficient area has been deliberately
ignored.

The success of the self-study depends in large measure
on the effective involvement of all members of the University
community. Students may participate in various study and dis-
cussion groups on topics related to students’ affairs and of con-
cern to students. Indeed, their participation is vital if the self-
study is to be valid in the area of student life.

The Leadership Forum, to be held Wednesday the 17th,
will treat the self-study program. Dr. Hinton, chairman of the
study, will review its plan and purpose in a brief talk and the
floor will then be opened for questioning. We applaud the pur-
pose of this forum and urge that any students interested in
hearing about the self-study be present. The forum is to be
completely open.

Participation in the program may be sought by consulting
with the Dean of Students, the Dean of the College, or Dr.
Hinton. Those concerned with taking part in the self-analysis
should plan to attend the forum. The administration will not
force you to participate; future plans for the University’s
development depend, partly, on your initiative.

Springs Weekend: A Proposal

Saturday classes may be generally ineffective, but the av-
erage Saturday class is a veritable fortress of intellectual curi-
osity compared to the Saturday classes held during Openings
and Springs weekends.

Professors are dismayed, but hardly surprised, at finding
two-thirds of the class absent at these times. Only those stu-
dents who have to be in class for fear of overcutting and flunk-
ing the course or those who find anything to be better than
facing that awful last-minute blind date again are present.
The result is that both students and faculty members are in-
effective, and the class is a total loss.

 

 

Furthermore, the University sponsors the social events
held on Friday and is somewhat idealistic in expecting a stu-
dent to recover from such in time for a Saturday morning
class. The University has sponsored the event, it knows the
student will be up late, yet demands that he deposit his body

in duPont 561 at 8:25 the next morning. Such a demand seems
unrealistic.

We propose, therefore, that the University do away with
the classes usually held on the Saturday of Springs Weekend
as an experiment to see if anything would be lost by not having

these classes. Surely their rescheduling can’t be too much of a
task,

 

Heart Fund Deserves Support

The students of W&L have been given an excellent Op
portunity to help in the Heart Fund Drive on Thursday, Feb-
ruary 17 from 4 to 8 p.m. The chairman of the drive for Rock.
bridge County, Mr. Otis Mead, originally confronted the IFC
with the possibility of a student canvass of the county. The re-
sponse of student volunteers from the fraternities and the
Circle K Club has been most encouraging.

There are two reasons why more than 60 students have
already decided to give their time. First, heart disease, accord.
ing to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, is
America’s number one killer. Second, in helping with the
Heart Fund Drive with out time and efforts, we can positively
demonstrate to the citizens of Rockbridge County that we as

THE RING-TUM PHI

As Others See Us

 

EDITOR’S NOTE—Dr. Alvord
Beardslee, contributor to our “As
Others See Us” column, is present-
ly the Chaplain of Hollins College.
He has agreed to write a series of
three articles for our perspective
outlook features. The article next
week will deal with the fraternity
situation, and the week after will
treat administrative responsibility.
Any expressions of agreement or
differences of opinion are wel-
comed and will be printed in our
“Letters to the Editor” column next
week, Letters should be addressed
to Box 899.

By DR. ALVORD BEARDSLEE

I was not aware of Washington and
Lee until about ten years ago when
I was travelling among the prep
schools of the country. When I say
I was not aware of Shakespeare until
I was thirteen, I may show myself to
have been an uninformed child.
Shakespeare is not lessened. When I
say I didn’t know about you, I’m cri-
ticizing you. I was raised on academic
talk.

Is your University as great as
Lee? Is William and Mary to be

compared with Yale or Princeton?
Is The University as great as Jeffer-
son? The source of your lassitude

 

 

and slightness is not to be found in
the men who founded these Virginia
universities but in a complex set of
factors. Let me examine in this and
following articles, one factor among
these: a hesitation to criticize and
discipline yourself.

My criticism is neighborly and
brotherly and hard. I want to be fair
and understanding and even merciful.
You must be generous to allow my
criticism at all. After all, I dare to cri-
ticize a university in which I have
neither studied nor taught. I will at-
tack, not for the first time, fraternities
I have never entered. On the other
hand, I have lived and taught near you
six years now, and have attended lec-
tures and meetings in Lexington. I
have talked with your teachers and
student leaders whom I respect and
admire. My impressions are gathered
from open discussions and this news-
paper, from talks with your alumni
and nearer neighbors. My impressions
are disciplined by the skills I learned
in professional visits to 350 secondary
schools and to universities in eight
countries.

I speak for myself.

You show two faces. You show

 

Hollins Chaplain Evaluates W&L Image

the moral schizophrenia common in
our culture. I meet two kinds of
Washington and Lee men. First, the
brave and pleasant students anyone
is glad to see and rejoices to know.
some of you graduates are my fel-
low teachers, now, and my brothers
in the ministery. Second, however,
the slack-bellied, loose-lipped gold-
en drunks deluded into thinking
they are welcome everywhere. I try
not to note one set more than the
other, I remind those who see only
your second face, that the other ex-
ists too.

Our commanding general in Japan
warned us that one careening GI run-
ning down an old woman on the
streets of an occupied village wiped
out the good work of an army. The
men who vomit into our chapel and
relieve themselves in our parking lot
like unhousebroken puppies, who yell
their dirtiest words at the decent wo-
men who work with our students,
erase from our memories too many
gentlemen and _ scholars.

You disappoint your friends when
you play away your opportunities. “I
want some benefit from you.... Re-
fresh my heart....”

 

 

Bronze, Terracotta, Welded tren

Fills duPont Sculpture Exhibit

By TRACY HARRINGTON
Friday Columnist

Monday a different kind of thing
will happen in duPont Hall.

All of us have seen the art shows
there—paintings, prints, and draw-
, ings regularly
| adorn the walls of
| the gallery.

This time, how-
ever, pieces of
welded iron, bronze
and terracotta will
fill the gallery for
about two weeks.

The upcoming
show represents the
most dynamic
trend in modern
sculpture, seen in
works by one of the South’s out-
standing young sculptors.

James Brewer, Alabama-born sculp-
tor now residing in Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, has only recently returned
from a six year stint in Europe where
he launched his career.

 

 

 

 

ry Southern.

What some people say about Candy:
Gore Vidal—“Terry Southern is the
most profoundly witty writer in our
generation.”; Nelson Algren— “There
is no more serious writer in the US.
today ...absolutely first rate... the
work of a major satirist.”; James
Jones—“ salty, irreverent wit and
penetrating humor”; Dwight MacDon-
ald—“The funniest book I have read
in a poon’s age”; Herbert Gold—“Good
grief, it's a very funny book.”

It is for the sake of contrast that
I mention these comments, for quite
frankly I thought the book if taken
in its entirety, to be pretty much of
a bore. And that, I would suggest, is
probably the one response the au-
thors most wanted to avoid. For those
few of you yet unfamiliar with Candy
it is the story of a sexually proco-
cious, though at the same time naive,
young lass who in one way or an-

to practically every extant variety of
manhood—a hunchback, a gardener,
a doctor, her uncle, her father, the
whole array.

In content, Candy, is both satirical
and pornagraphic. Some say the por-
nography is there for the sake of
satire, Others that the satire is for the
sake of pornography. I suggest it i
neither. The authors appear to me too
cynical of human nature to have writ
ten this book with the main intent of
satire, for satire implies an attempt to
ameliorate what is satirized, in this
instance, the pretentiousness of our so-
ciety. A pretentiousness which Hoffen-
berg and Southern would hardly have
expected to puncture effectually

As for the pornographic element in
the book, it is more than ample, both
in quantity and vividness of descrip-
tion. It is presented, however, in a
manner so obviously designed to point
out the absurdities of sex that rath-

 

students are interested in other people.

Geoffrey C. Butler

er than arousing the reader, it amuses

Candy, by Mason Hoffenberg and Ter-

other manages “to give her warmth” |

Excessive Sex Makes ‘Candy’
Humorous But Borg Novel

By ALLAN HUBBARD

the ego.

As has been indicated, however, it
| is an aim which I thought the book,
| as an entity, failed to realize. This is
why. Almost every action of every
character throughout the entire book
is motivated by a single drive, sex-
ual desire. Candy's humor stems from
the various ways in which the various
characters try to dissemble their
“need” under more pretentious guises,

By ARTHUR McBLAIR CROWLEY

How I found out about it, I can't
tell you. Secret channels. All I knew
was that I was onto something big,
and that Torpedo Earl was right in the
middle of it.

For those of you who don't know
what I'm talking about, Torpedo Earl
| is school Proctor at Ampersand Uni-
versity where he has made quite
a name for himself the last few years.
Some say he was a mercenary soldier

 

 

in Sarawak during the revolutions, |
while others contend that he was set-
ting pins at the local alley during
those formative years. At any rate,
he is somewhat of a legend among)
the Ampersand student bedy, and I
knew it would be a mistake to pass up
an opportunity to observe him at first
hand

Arriving at Ampersand = last
Thursday afternoon, | went straight
to the gymnasium, down through the
false bottom of locker 381, and into
Torpedo’s secret crime lab. There,
attived in white leotards, Torpedo
was working out with his French
foil, slashing viciously at an imag-
inary opponent and hyperventilat-

 

5

dd I must confess I thought parts of
first half of the book were hilari-
. I would have thought parts of the
t half hilarious as well, however,
I not read the first half before-

Ee

oO

[re

In literature as fn life, sex per se,
even when it is being mocked, should
provide the embellishment only, and
not the central issue. Not that I think

He first went to the Royal College
in London in 1958, on a Fulbright
Grant. Following a year at the Royal
College, Brewer installed himself in
a studio in Chelsey, England, re-
maining there until his return to
North Carolina a year ago.

His European stay culminated in
1963 in a major exhibition of his work
in Paris. (Some of the pieces from
his Paris show are included in the
duPont exhibition here).

Other major showings of Brewer's
work have been at the Detroit Insti-
tute of Art in Detroit, 1958; at the
Isaac Delgade Museum in New Or-
leans, 1957; at the Galerie Marcelle
Dupuis in Paris, 1961; and at the
Granville Gallery 1963 exhibition in
Asheville, North Carolina.

At present, Brewer’s works are in
three exhibitions in North Carolina
and Virginia.

Spontaneity seems to be the key
both to Brewer the man and Brew-
er the artist. He works in welded
irons and bronzes, he says, because
there is less of a barrier in these
media between the artist’s creative
inspiration and the expression of that
inspiration. Furthermore, he will
not give organized, pre-planned lec -
tures on his work, He prefers sim-
ple spontaneous conversation about
it, freely discussing technique in
general and individual works in
particular, His art is an art of im-
mediacy, of dynamic creativity—
and a pleasing direction in the artis-
try of the atomic age.

The new world employs new tech-
niques, and nowhere is this truer than
in art. Marble and bronze is succeed-
ed by steel and iron in the realm of
sculpture, Brewer uses the new tech-
niques energeticaliy and with consum-
mate artistic result.

The show here is a first for Wash-
ington and Lee. It represents both a
trend and a man that neither can be
nor should be given less than the

 

it immoral to do otherwise, just dull.

College Pressures Part Ill: The Proctor

The James Bond of Ampersand U.

began to pour from the crystal de-
canter on his desk.

“No thanks. All I want is some in-
formation.”

The big man looked at me over his
wine glass: “And what makes you
think I'm on a case?”

“Hall, door, room, closet, bureau,
loose change... Esso station.”

most careful attention.

Stationery salesman on foot for six
hours out Route 11, during which time
his prey collected seventeen empty
coke bottles), I determined that the
stationery salesman was in the dormi-
tory every night at that time, Q.E.D
I had him.”

“But how do you intend to catch
him?”

sharply, snapping the pine boards
in two and showering the room with

=
i
>

5

Torpedo began shadow-boxing furi

‘Esso station?” ously
“Where he lives.” “Sorry I can't invile you to jom me
“Who?” in the field. You might get hurt. These

“The stationery salesman.”
“I see.” The lighting returned to

things can be dangerous, you know.”

“Dangerous? Then would you say

normal. Torpedo put down the foil and| that in your position as Proctor you
turned to a stack of ten or eleven pine| are under a great deal of pressure?”

boards.

“The whole plan has been worked
out to the most minute detail, Nothing

“Pressure? Why, wh, yes, I sup-
pose so.” Torpedo took a few play-
ful jabs at my rib cage. “Got to keep

ing. He turned to me, foil ‘at rest’;
i : : = has been overlooked. The pilferings
A.M. Crowley, W&L ‘67 have been reported as taking place be-

I smiled. “You never forget a face,| tween six and seven am. After some

 

him. This it seemea to me i« the aim of

the book—to titillate not the id, but

do you, Torpedo?” rapid research and a forty-eight how
Can't afford to. Sherry?” Torpedo} stakeout (Torpedo had followed the

 

 

in top shape, you know. See these
three fingers? 1 can break a townile’s
neck like a number two pencil.
That's something you don't learn
over night. No Siree.”
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Defeats

Perreault § parks

WGL Victory;

Home Schedule to End Tuesday

By GUY U

NANGST

Washington and Lee Basketball coach Verne Canfield
planned this season as one of development. It was apparent it
would be one of those seasons generously labelled “rebuilding”
from the season opener—a 34-point loss to Old Dominion.

Tuesday W&L beat the same team by 10 points, 95-85,

only its second win in 16 games
*

, but a somewhat fulfilling one

 

for Canfield.

W&L had only six personal fouls,
far fewer than its average 22 a game.
It had more recoveries than losses,
highly unusual. Captain Dick Liv-
ingston, who averaged five points a
game last year, scored 22, Bob Spes-
sard played 18 minutes with four
fouls, and got 13 rebounds. Fred Min-
del, a sometime scorer, got 19 points.
But mostly it was Larry Perreault.

Perreault is a 5-foot-9 freshman
guard who played under Canfield at
Anexandria’s Groveton High School,
then spent a year at Bullis Prep. When
Canfield won the W&L coaching as-
signment, Perreault was his first re-
cruit,

He has been a fan favorite all
year, and a starter since W&L’s ninth
game, but often has been inaccurate—
he hit only three of 19 against Roa-
noke a week ago—and has taken many
shots he should not have. He had nev-
er scored in double figures.

Last night the Generals returned
to their losing ways as Roanoke Col-
lege downed W&L 85-75. The game
was close throughout with Roanoke
leading by three at halftime at 36-33.
The game was tied 11 times.

Larry Perreault led General scorers
for the second straight time, netting
21 points. He was followed by Dick
Livingston with 20, and Fred Mindel
and Steve Sweitzer both with ten.
John Mongero led Roanoke with 18.

Perreault scored Tuesday on 13 of
19 shots for 30 points, stole the ball
10 times and had five assists.

When Old Dominion took an early |
lead, it was Perreault that caught the
Generals afire—he scored 11 points
in the first eight minutes. When the
Monarchs went into a second half full
court press, it was Perreault that
broke it. When they pulled within two
points late in the game, it was a pair
of Perreault free throws that ended
the threat.

Perreault called it “just a lucky
game,” and credited the rebounding of
Spessard and Livingston. Nevertheless,
his 30-point total was nine points bet- |
ter than he had ever done in high)
school.

Tuesday, along with a multitude of
other morale-boosting signs, Canfield |,
had blocked the locker room doorway |g
with a roll of tape that read, “Cross.
over the line.” He had been telling
his players all year that there was an)

“invisible line” beyond which they |
hadn’t gone but were capable of go-
ing. They finally went.

Generals play at home Tuesday
against R.P.1., which won first meet-|
ing, 101-77 ... Canfield credited cheer- |
ing section under basket—the Delt)
freshman—with part of Tuesday's |
win... .Less than 200 fans showed up

 

 

 

 

 

Va. Episcopal, Mennonite
Defeat Frosh Cage Team

It looks like the Washington and
Lee freshman basketball team will
wind up the season with a_ perfect
record.

The baby Generals kept their perfect
record intact with these two most re-
cent losses to Virginia Episcopal and
Eastern Mennonite. Their record is
now 0-9.

Against Virginia Episcopal the final
score was 68-51. The Generals were
never in contention in the game as
five Episcopal players scored in double
figures. W&L had the game’s high
scorer however, in the person of Cor-
bet Bryant who netted 14. High for
Episcopal was Heald with 12.

Moving into their next game against
Eastern Mennonite on Tuesday, the
W&L frosh were completely outclas-
sed in the first half but then came
on to stay fairly even with Mennonite
in second half scoring. This in spite
of the fact that Mennonite kept their
first string in for most of the game.

The score at half time had been 39-
25 in favor of Mennonite. In second
half scoring, it was 31 for W&L and
34 for Eastern Mennonite. Four of
their players and one W&L man fin-
ished in double figures. High scorer of
the game was Mennonite’s Beiler with
25. Yoder followed with 18. W&L was

‘led by Bill Rasmussen with 14.

The baby Generals face just two
more foes this season. This afternoon
they go against Greenbrier here and
on Monday afternoon they go against
Virginia Episcopal in a game there.
W&L 30-51
Va. Episcopal

W&L Scoring—Hulsizer 2, Madison
9, Rasmussen 5, Bryant 14, Bradford 9,
Winn 2, S. Greenia 2, D. Greenia 3,
Ryan 3, Briggs.

Va. Episcopal scoring—Harris 11,
Harrison 10, Cline 10, Carper 4, Heald
12, Seddeth 3, Ragsdale 1, Morrison 6,
Ross 11.

Wa&L 11-56

Eastern Mennonite . 8 =9A-73

Wa&L scorning—Hulsizer 8, Madison

, Rasmussen 14, Bryant 8, Bradford
8, Vellines 2, S. Greenia 4, Ryan 4,
Briggs 1.

E. Men. scoring—Beiler 25, Bren-
neman 8, Gonzales 10, King 10, D. Yo-
der 18, R. Yoder 2.

 

 

tl 85
tS 0-15

Old Dominion
Washington and Lee

W&L scoring: Livingston 22, Min-
del 19, Sweitzer 4, Spessard 10, Per-
reault ®, Kline 8, Pearce 2.

 

 

ROUTE 60 EAST

 

 

A

v Gifts, Items

Appliances

wy
MW

f
:
:
*
:
:
:
:

Oe te te ee

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER

Across from the White Top Restaurant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome

IN LEXINGTON

 

 

 

 

PEEEEEEEEEEEESEEEESEESESEES ES ESE EEE EESEE GEST EE ED

Adair-Hutton, Inc.

Lexington, Va.
vy Headquarters for Men’s Wear

for the Home

We Welcome Your Charge Account

SESESSSESESESSES ESE SHOTS

CLUB STEAK
New York
SIRLOIN STEAK
Prime
ROAST BEEF

SUNDAY

STEAK SPECIAL

With all the trimmings

TED’S STEAK HOUSE

Route 60 Buena Vista
SCOOT SHESEHSES HOES ESESESEEHESESEEEE EES ESEEEEEEE SEEEEEEESESESESSEEESESESSESESESESEESESEEE SOOO SES

2.95
3.25
2.25

8S ONLY

 

O DC; Loses to Roanoke

 

By TOM WHITE

An old nemesis and a newcomer to
the schedule are the competition this
weekend as the Washington and Lee
wrestling team faces two out-of-
town matches.
| The old nemesis is Franklin and
|| Marshall, whom W&L has never beat-
en, The newcomer is Loyola of Balti-
more. Last year, in the most recent
meeting between the two schools,
Franklin and Marshall defeated the
W&L grapplers by a 19-9 score.

This year not much is known about
the Pennsylvania school, who the
Generals will meet there Friday night.
They have had four meets this year,
but only scores from two of the meets
are available.

They defeated Harvard in a close
match by a 15-14 score, and they lost
| to Columbia in another close match.
The score in that one was 17-14.

See Chances as 50-50

Coach Dick Miller says W&L has
a “50-50 chance to win this one.” Top
| wrestlers for F&M are Schneiderman
| at heavyweight, Donovan at 167, and
| Kistler at 147.

Miller bases his estimate on W&L
chances against F&M on the fact that
W&L has strengthened itself consid-
erably since last year’s loss. Last year

 

Shown above are Larry Perreault on the left and Dick Livingston on the} W&L was in an awkward position
right, Perreault paced Generals in win over Old Dominion with 30 points| since Coach Miller had to end up ref-

while Livingston had 22.

IM Week

 

ereeing the match.

Beta, Delt, KA, PEP in Handball Finals

By JOHN BEAGLE
The regular league handball sched-
ule has been completed and the finals
will begin next week. Winners in each

one victory of their league champion- | League D the winner of the ZBT-
ship. It has only to beat Phi Gam to| Lambda Chi match will probably be in
take it. the finals.

In the last league, Kappa Sig beat Rankings: 1. Phi Kap, 16-0; 2. SAE,
Phi

of the respective leagues are Beta, Delt 56-29 to come within one

11-1; 3. NFU, 11-1; 4. Lambda Chi,

Wrestlers Face FRM and Loyola;
Make Two Changes In Line Up

Only two changes in the starting line
up are contemplated for this week-
end’s matches. Bob Payne, a freshman,
will replace Kemble White at 137
pounds and Don Patterson, a sopho-
more, will replace Tom Stover at 147.

Coach Miller said the decision to
insert Payne in the lineup was made
after he beat out White two days run-
ning in practice matches this week.
Patterson will replace Stover because
the PiKA senior has to take his law
boards exams this Saturday.

Miller praised Patterson as a good
wrestler who will do well. He added,
however, that he lacks some of the
ability that Stover’s experience gives
him.

Optimistic Against Loyola

Turning to the meet against Loyola
of Baltimore, Miller was optimistic as
to the outcome, although he added that
not too much was known about their
squad. That match will be held Sat-
urday afternoon there.

The only foe common to both teams
is Hampden-Sydney. Both squads
have defeated that school, but the
Loyola victory was a close one while
the Generals defeated H-S by a 30-3
score.

The Generals go into the weekend's
two meets with a 6-1 record overall.
The only loss was to West Virginia
just before the Christmas break. After
this weekend’s matches, W&L has only
two meets remaining, on February 20
against Old Dominion there and on
February 27 against U.Va. here.

 

NOTICE

There will be a brief meeting of
SPEPOOJCA tomorrow night at 11:00
in Mr. Jennings’ Office to familiarize
members with the rules of the group’s
latest creation, “jaggling.”

PEELE EEEEEEE EE EEE EEE STS

 

 

Delt, KA, and Phi Ep.

With the exception of Phi
the same three teams were in the
handball finals last year also. The
playoff was such a dogfight last year
that each team lost once in the finals
and everything had to be done all
over again until finally Delt came out
the winner. Look for a repeat of last
year’s dogfight between the top three
and give Phi Ep an extreme outside
chance.

Ep,

Rankings on the basis of this year’s
records; 1. Delt, 4-0; 2. (tie) KA, 4-0;
and Beta, 4-0; 3. Phi Ep, 4-0.

In basketball two league champs
have been decided and the other two
leagues appear to have a clear cut win-
ner. Beta has already won itis league
and stands 4-0. SAE beat KA last
week 45-28 to win their league.

DU this week upset an underman-
ned ZBT team 4- 26 to come within

 

 

victory of their league title. By de-
feating Phi Kap in their last game,
Kappa Sig will take the league crown
and head into the finals slated for
next week.

Rankings: 1. Kappa Sig, 3-0; 2. SAE
4-0; 3. DU, 3-0; 4. Beta, 4-0.

In bowling this week two league
champs were decided. SAE beat Sig-
ma Chi to clinch the title in League
C and Phi Kap won over PiKA to

take League B. In League A Kappa ss
Sig could still win if SPE beat NFU |=
4-0. However, pick NFU to win. In|"

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelery Repair
Hand Engarving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE

Southern Inn

POPPOOOO HEHE HOES ESEOEOOEEDESEOEOSOSOSEEOESESESESS
PEPEEEEE SEES FFFEEF646400606666600404605084444044

MON., TUES. WED.
SPECIALS
Trousers, Sweaters . 3 for $1

White Shirts

Laundered . 5 for $1

 

ONE HOUR SERVICE ON REQUEST
IF CLOTHING 1S EIN OFFICE BY 4 PM.

One Hour

MARTINIZING.

ceeriries

THE MOST IN DRY CLEANING

 

 

Watker Street, Lexington Virginia
West side of the Lexington-Buena Vista Shopping Park

 

7-1; and ZBT, 9-3 (tie).

 

 

~
FINAL HANDBALL STANDINGS ROBERT E. LEE
League A BARBERSHOP
ONE ci eae 4-0
OU oti kc ee 3-1| # OPEN from 8:00-5:30
tneoeeooeoessseeneneees

   

 
  

JUST IN
Men’s Pants by Lee

White. Sand. Blue. Green. Denim
$4.95 and $5.95

$4.95

SWINK’S

East Nelson St.
Open Friday until 8:30

Lh PLE A

COCCOOOO OOOOH EESEOEE SESE SEOEEEE SESE EES ESEEEEEEEES

ee

 

 

 

bolder look in PLAID

The Sero button down takes on a bold look of color
excitement in an all cotton plaid endorsed for the best
kind of casual wear with added benefit of

cool half sleeves. This is shirtmanship, §0,00

+
*

=
=
2
tR

>
oS
 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Notices

If you can persuade her to take two
overnights, the IFC will provide her
transportation. Buses are leaving the
girl’s schools on Friday at 2:00 p.m.
and will return to them on Sunday
at 4:00 p.m. The reason for the change
in scheduling is VMI Mid-winters.

Hibbard emphasized that the buses
leave Sunday, NOT Saturday night.

Amid placards reading, ‘The Worst
thing since Petty Pants” and “Girls
aren’t Mummies,” the board members
for the Ban the Body Stocking League
received an encouraging progress re-
port last night. It seemed to indicate
that their devoted effort of the past
two months is paying off. “If present
trends continue” the report read, “the
body stocking will have lost all sup-
port by June of this year.” After last
night’s meeting one board member
commented that it was a successful
meeting, but not as successful as last
week’s when the body stocking was
modeled.

Glee Club, Symphony Join

For Concert in Roanoke
(Continued from page 1)

ion Dan Manson is soloist for “To-
night.”

Other numbers to be sung are
“Down Among the Dead Men,” with
Manson soloist; William Supon, also
a senior, soloist in “I Got Plenty of

Nothin’” from George Gershwin’s
“Porgy and Bess,” “Conceited,” and
“A-Roving.”

The orchestra will play “Roman

Carnival Overture” by Hector Ber-
lioz, “Waltz Time” by Johann Strauss,
and “Belle of the Ball” by Leroy An-
derson.

The Hollins College Dance Group
will also perform, to the music of Stra-
vinsky, “Petroucha.”

The program begins in the hotel
ballroom at 8 p.m. and is for a pri-
vate audience.

 

te :We 2

 

LEXINGTON, VA | MOBSART 39-3434 ’

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

 

N- H
ele ath

 

 

TOWN INN
ABC 5392 on and off

 

STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N, Main Street

 

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER

With University
and Buttons

COLLEGE TO

i

z
F2

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

AO EEE
Shirt Service as You Like It

Bring Your Complete Laundry
to Us

E Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY

CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*

“Your Campus Neighbors”

geet

#

 

Take a break from

your studies
COME TO

White Top

Restaurant

Route 60

 

     
   
 
  

I-M Week
(Continued from page 3)

(Continued from page 1)

NE Te inicsicciineinnsiined 2-2
Phi Delt .1-3| A. Jenks, Dr. E. §S. Gilreath, Mr.
TOW visisiecsaicai nae 0-4| Frank Parsons, and Dr. H. Lawrence

Wilsey, Vice President of Booz, Allen
and Hamilton, Inc., the accreditation
agency which set up the W&L pro-
gram.

The faculty was presented just be-
fore Christmas with a master plan
similar to the plan which will be pre-
sented Wednesday.

Hinton explained that up to this
point there had been little responsibil-
ity assigned to faculty and students
because it was felt that it would take
“too much time away from study,
teaching, research and writing.”

He suggested that there would be
more work which involved these
groups later in the Spring as “we
hope to gather essentially all interac-

 

SPE

 

NOTICE

Lambda Chi Alpha elected Bob
Watkins president, Dan Eadie vice
president, and Roger Sphar, treas.

 

Plans For W&L Self-Study

tion information this year. This will
allow us to consider it during the
summer and prepare a rough draft of
our recommendations by next fall.”

The study will be the first of its
nature ever performed here.

The results of it could cause dras-
tic changes within the University or
it may affect present conditions lit-
tle. About the only thing certain at
this point in the study is that “Ole
George” wouldn’t be removed from
atop Washington Hall.

 

Judge D’Auria to Speak
(Continued from Page 1)

regional managers.

A showing of color slides taken
at last year’s convention will be held
at Reid Hall auditorium (second
floor) on Wednesday evening, Feb-
ruary 10, beginning at 7:30 p.m. Mr.
Frank Parsons, Director of Infor-
mation for the University, will sup-
ply the narration.

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

sanenaiia ee a
I TEE ssiensecserunsnneniieniesvinisereennnnonl 3-0
NE BP sinensis . senshvinieialenninnen 3-1
oo ee ae 3-0 TIRE
RNR RE CREOOE 3-1

make

SUN.-MON.
“A Joy: absolute = _—
ahaha Original Equipme

re Replaced wit

FIRESTONE

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main St.
Phone HO 3-4121
Keepsake Diamond Rings
Modern repair department

 

 

 

 

2 for Price of 1

U.S. ROYAL — GOODRICH
All Brand New

FREE ALEIGNMENT CHECK

RABE OIL

Phillips 66 Station

East Nelson Street

SALE

nt off of New Cars

n Snow Tires

— GENERAL

 

opportunity ahead....

for college graduates at one of the

 

 

 

nation’s fastest-growing banks as a
participant in First National's Manage-
ment Development Program.

Allen Robinson, Training Officer,

will interview seniors with backgrounds

FIRST
NATIONAL
BANK

OF MEMPHIS

 

 

 

in: Liberal Arts, Mathematics, Econom-
ics, Banking and Finance, Accounting

and Law.

Me. Robinson will be on cam-
pus February 16, 1965. Con-

 

 

 

 

 

 

tact the Placement Office to

set up an interview,

FIRST NATIONAL BANK
OF MEMPHIS

MEMPrUS, TENNESSEE | MEMBER /LOERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORAT

 

Allen Robinson
Training Officer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia.
Entered as second class matter September 20, 1946 at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878.

SHANNON JUNG RICHARD CARRELL

Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
EDITORIAL BOARD
DS TI ssi hinisitiniciccss se eeceeinniuninned Managing Editor
Blaine Ewing, Ken McGraw.........csssssssssssssssssersseees Assistant Managing Editors

News Editors

 
 
  

Special Features Editor
seasseanevsastevecnsvornnee Assistant News Editor
Cinema Review Editor
Cartoonist

Gesbworinntions Marae iscsicssscsssesccssssssescseesssssecssssssesessocoesescsensseseesvoees Jim Redenbaugh
Comer tei: TERUG cxseicissssccarcecsccesertsessscssssrsesesess Randy Chitwood, Bob Priddy
Advertising Managers ......ccscsscssssssssssssusessseesees Jeff Bridges, George Madison
GROG TEAAIIIND ceccssssssssssscstinscasstsenncerennreornieenicieineneenenes John Wolfe, Al Byrne

seeeeneees

 

Poososoosocosoooosoooses ete te tee teste dete ede tele eee rie torb
: R. L. Hess and Bro. $/+ HICKMAN’S ESSO

: JEWELERS ° on

: a oy Oca : US. 11 SOUTH
secccccccccccccccccccees He eherhe rhe ofeobe oho oho ote ole ohe eee oo ofe oho whe oe oe ote oe rde

 

     

Send the Ring-tum Phi Home
This Semester

— Unless, of course, you want your parents to be kept

in the dark

ONLY $3.00

CONTACT JIM REDENBAUGH OR RICK CARRELL

 

    

FASHIONS

BY 0. E. SCHOEFFLER, esauine’s Fashion Director
THE LAST HURRAH for 1964 is now an echo. The last Christmas

tree has been piled on a blazing bonfire, and your New Year’s reso-
lutions have already had a chance to stand the test of time. One
resolution every alert college man should make (and keep) is to
look his best at all times. With this thought in mind, let’s take a
quick checkup on your mid-winter wardrobe.

CHESTNUTS ROASTING ON AN OPEN FIRE, and you warm and

fashionable in your camelhair sweater—an ideal mid-winter pic-
ture. The camelhair sweater is showing a marked popularity this
year on campuses across the country. And again, cardigans cap top
honors, both in button-front and shawl-collar models, and in smart
border stripes. Look for the new cardigans zipped and border-
striped up the front and leather patched on the
sleeves. A continuing favorite is the Shetland
pullover in soft heathery shades of muted blue,
brown and tan with a “brushed surface” effect
in both crew and V-neck styles.

WALKIN’ IN A WINTER WONDERLAND, or
skiing down the powdery white slopes, you'll find
the “Ski Look” influence in the HOOT Sweater.
The turtleneck identifies the HOOT. A high-
standing, fold-over turtleneck of rugged rib-
knit, or a “mock” turtle—the high crew-neck—
gives the HOOT a handsome, masculine look.
Heavier, bulkier yarns, and bold patterns, especially the Seandina-
vian designs, are the thing. Brilliant blues, greens, reds and golds
in solid or multi-colored combination stripes and argyles make the
HOOT Sweater an eye-catching invigorating new campus fashion
HOOT Slacks in tan and bronze corduroy are tapered, trim and
pleatiess, and coordinate perfectly with all ingredients of the HOOT
LOOK,

BABY, It’s COLD OUTSIDE! But with the proper accessories, you

won't have to worry about the outside weather story. Gloves, often
ignored by college men, are much more than hand-warmers; they
are an integral part of the fashion picture. Sturdy pigskin in the
natural “cork” shade with linings of lambswool or fur are favored
on the cold-weather campus, as are tan knitted woo! gloves with
leather palma. Crisp and correct are woolen mufflers in solid colors
or bold Tartan designs. In scarves, the knitted cross stripes or
border stripes have the edge.

 
