 

 

Presi

Tuesday
Edition

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

dent Cole To Address Graduating Seniors

Che KRing-tum Phi

Tuesday
Edition

 

Volume LXV

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, TUESDAY, MAY 18,

1

965

Number 52

 

Highwaymen To Perform At Finals Concert

*

Dr David Sprunt
Also To Speak

At Exercises

Maj. General A. A. Sproul
Will Address
ROTC Men

Washington and Lee Uni-|

versity’s president, it’s chaplain}

and the commander of the
29th Infantry Division of the

Virginia National Guard will

= 4 Appoints
Cold Check Unit

Interviews Scheduled
By Executive Committee

For Tonight

ports and suggestions from last yea s
committee chairmen and screening
the

 

be the speakers June 3-4 for
the university's 216th
ment.

Dr. Fred Cole,
dent, will address the
ing class at 11 a.m.
exercises on the campus front lawn
June 4, Dr. David W. Sprunt,

university presi-

of students, will deliver
laureate service at 11 a.m.
in Evans Dining Hall.
Sproul To Speak
Maj. Gen. A. A. Sproul, the
infantry division commander
1937 graduate of Washington
Lee, will speak at the ROTC comis-
sioning ceremony in Lee Chapel at
9 am. June 4. Gen. Sproul will pre-
sent the armed forces reserve officers
commissions to approximately 45
Washington and Lee seniors.

June 3

29th |

Jon A. Supak of Virginia Beach, |

Senior ZBT completing an honors!
program in philosophy, will deliver

Fri-

the validictory address during
day's commencement program.
265 Degrees

Washington and Lee has 265 can-

didates for degrees this June, in-
cluding 139 for bachelor of arts, 38
for bachelor of arts in economics o1

ol
in

bachelor
science

political science, 37 for
laws, 33 for
commerce,
and three
chemistry

Dr. Cole

commencement

bachelor of
ol science

in

15 for bachelor

for bachelor of science

making his sixth
address since

will be
assum-

ing Washington and Lee's presidency |

in 1959. The university
traditionally delivers the
the graduates at the final exercise

Dr. Sprunt has been a member of

the Washington and Lee faculty since |

1953 and was named university

commence=-

1965 graduat-|
commencement |

uni-|
versity chaplain and associate dean}
the bacca-|

and a)
and

| ported by Chairman Mel Lapes, who | ed Managing Editor,

president}

applicants for positions on the
four committees.

3rooks Brown, Chairman of the As-
similation Committee, was present to
discuss what his committee
complished over the past year
to give advice on the selection
|new members; Jim Slay, ees
of the Cold Check Committee, sum-
marized his committee’s actions and
commented upon possible improve-
ments in the future in a letter.

Kirk Follo attended the meeting to
| present a report for Joe Wheeler,

-

After Four Hours

|
|
i
|

The newly elected Executive|]
Committee members met for the sec-
ond time Monday night and
the entire session listening to re-

|
|

le
had ac-

 
 
  
   
 

spent | 3

5
\

_ =

-s )
° ,
=

The Highwaymen

Tuesday Staff Named By Hash;

Newman, Saunders Head Edition

Tuesday editor-elect Mike Hash

Chairman of the Student Control| announced the names of the top staff |

Committee;

the Library Committee were re-
ij went on to make proposals for next
| year.

The E.C. next screened and picke
| the new representatives on the Cold)
| Check Committee: Chairman,

Fleischer, Zeta Beta Tau fraternity;

other Seniors—Ken Bernhardt, Phi
Epsilon Pi and Wicky Stuart, Delt
Tau Delta; Juniors—Maec Dobson,
Bill Hartman, Kappa Sigma, and Bill
Wildrick, Pi Kappa Alpha; Sopho-

Emory Waters, Kappa —
Myer, Phi Gamma Delite

remainder of the
to the screening
the other three
arrangement ol
interviews

mores
ind Rusty

The
devoted
cants for
and the
individual

held Tuesday

meeting
ol
committees

was

appli-

times for
which will b

night

Psi Chi National Honor
Society in Psychology
Holds Initiation Rites
Eight Washington and Lee U

sity students were
18 into Psi Chi, national
| ciety in psychology

address to

niver-
May

s0O-

initiated on
honor

chaplain and associate dean of stu-| Those honored were Kenneth L
dents in 1960. He also is head of the| Bernhardt, Princeton, N. J.; Henry
university's department ol religion M. Cadot. Jr.. Wilmington, Del
and is an ordained Presbyterian min-| Baird S. Grimson, Durham, N. C::
ister, | Richard C. Hartgrove, San Ange lo

Gen. Sproul, a native of Middle-|Tex.; Robert Ernest Lee, III; La
brook, lives in Staunton. He re-| Canada, Calif.; Ralph O'Connor, J:
ceived his B.S. degree in business} San Francisco, Calif George M
from Washington and Lee in 1937 | Sanders, St. Louis, Mo., and Ander-
and began his military career by en-| son D. Smith, Chase City. Bernhardt
listing as a private in the H6th In-| O'Connor and Smith are junior
fantry Regiment ithe rest are seniors
Outstanding Freshman Chosen

 

Richard Nash Honored By

The IFC last night selected the Committes
1965 recipient of the annual Out The IFC selected the chairman of
standing Freshman Award. After| the 1966 CONTACT Weekend ul
lengthy deliberation, the IFC an- has been withheld for use in the
nounced that Richard Nash, Beta! Finals edition of the Ring-tum : Phi
freshman from Louisville, Kentucky.) The chairman was selected from
had been selected number ot ipplication whieh the
Nominations for the ward were| IFC received and investigated in
ubmitted by eight fraternitu nore | la everal da
than have been received recent Nash follow i footste
vears. The Judicial Board of the ove ik iu iden ere
IFC made the selection. Newly elect-| Waal mand La who ‘
d President Chuck Griffin pointed | ceived IFC award “
out that the QOutstandin Freshma eal A lation Cor
Award mused on leader 1G) lere 1 Brook Bro ‘
nip, and integrity i in ire rat 4 ‘
Qualific ations "0 » another K
Nash present d a long list ol gq lal ‘ ! mped t
fications for the aw i. He pre ( Walk eceived ; ‘
lent of the Beta pledge: cla ire La ) the IF ion P
wn Executive Committee represet De Pledus B Kend b
tive: participated man foo ; nnore ‘ f wu Boxe
all: and 1 mem , Dance | t Con ‘
Board Advisory Committec i Exchange Student Addresses
Calyx and ne tum res iff i Ike rd Schultz, an exe
he Faod Cz o| Cor e. He w Hh Gern id
‘ I i Ih

the accomplishments of | editors

d Saunders,

Dave}

 

a
i
i

Head Newman,
has been appoint-

1965-66
Kappa Sig junior,

for

with David

Dougherty, KA freshman, serving as
Assisting " Meneging Editor. Steve
SPE freshman, will be

News Editor, with Phi Gam fresh-
man Don O’Hare

| ciate Editor, Frank Fairchild, an in-

 

{|
EA

staff

The Tuesday (l-r) front
Tom Carpenter;

ders, and Steve Watts.

dependent junior will be Executive
Editor
Sports and Columns
Tom Carpent ha een ck nate
ed Si Editor, and Steve Watts |
ternporarily head 7 the pnotogi aphy
1. Column ited > apne
regular! on wun luesda ditorial
pane i Ward Bri Bob Schal-
I. I .
' 2]
enc ui ‘ 4 erriix ol tre
iW nin no nd La tudet xl
i
ith o i
4) en ‘ ) viqytie
i flered lid
} ;
|
i i
n
at
A
i rt ;
fore

working as Asso-|

row:

fer,

In addition,
and Lin Hartin
contributors.

Key men
management
erty,

wi

in
are

ger

ial policy.
all news and the fr

Dougherty handles

Bob Lee,

Newman,
and Saunders. Newman is re-| Public Affairs James L. Grunfield ace-
sponsible for the newspaper’s over- cepted the petition in a brief cere-
all make-up and assists with editor-| mony in the State Department Build-
Saunders is in charge of| ing in Washington, D.C. Also attend-

ll

be occa

1eral

ont

page,

 

Experienced Staff

 

Head Newman, from Ft. Worth,
Pexa tarted as a freshman re-
porter. This past year, he erved as
Assistant Managing Editor. In that

t Newman headed the sec-
ond pare and assisted with page one
;one las “out Hk serv’ as an officer |
lin | fraternity and is a membet
| of ihe Young Republean Hy i
najoring ifi Economics ind is a
Ds ins List student

Douwhe irom Silve Spring
| Ma and egan a i sport re-
sorter on the , Rina-tum Phi, and was'

swromoted te Sports Editer. In

aid o vA } af ive paper
Douwnse nicl position mi the
jock Cor ; ) i erim Coordinat

ofl, He editor of i il

” cw pe i rd co Hullo

; ‘ MP ve MOF
om Eh N. Y
A ‘ Falito rast

it Coord tor ol e 1068
Ml to ‘ le Ve
NS Ro | Table na

Hu ‘ Co ttes
UCA " } re
' R j .¢ e K
j I i i R
pP ) 1 Na
io | ; } ead i
ol : ; i

Ringe

news

Dough-|

Tim Crowley, and Roy Tyler.
Fred Mindel

sional

and

while

Dave Dougherty, Head mean

second row: Frank Fairchild, Don O'Hare, Steve Saun-

the editorial page

ium Phi

Concert To Be Outdoors;
Cocktail Party at Phi Kap

Last minute plans for this year’s Finals weekend are now
being completed. Jody Brown, Final’s President,
that The Highwaymen, a popular folk quartet, will perform
at the outdoor concert on Tuesday night, June 1. The tradi-
tional cocktail party will be held in the "Phi Kappa Sigma back
yard from 5 to 7 p.m. The finals Dance will be held in Dore-

*mus Gymnasium on Thursday
WEL Students an ae aa a pa
Travel to D.C;
Offer Petition

| permitting, on the varsity football
| field, and will begin at 8:30 p.m
| Conventional dress will not be re-
U.S. State Department
Accepts Viet Petition
From Republicans

announced

night

quired. Students
| bring blankets to sit on for chairs
will be furnished. In of
rain, concert will be held in the
gym.

are requested to

not
the

case

The Highwaymen “... perhaps the
most energenically original and tech-
|nically polished folk group in the
music business,” is under the direc-

On Wednesday, April 28, a group] tion of David Fisher. The group has
of Washington and Lee Young Re-| made its special style of folk music
publican officers presented a petition] internationally famous. Their record-
signed by over 800 W&lL students] ing of “Michael” sold over a million
and faculty members to the U.S. De- copies several vears ago.

 

yartment of State supporting , :
I PI 5 the| Each of the members of the group
Johnson administration's policy in|
; : |group is an accomplished musician
Vietnam.
: |in his own right, and the four com-
State Department Acceptance bine in a variety of instrumental tal-

Assistant Secretary of State for ents with a skill of languages and

dialects of people all over the world
The group is considered by many
critics as “one of the most unique
in folk singing today.”

7 “Ty
ing was Ambassador Leonard Unger, The cocktail party, which begins at
head of the State Department's sec-| - _
ee ain, Gaia 5 p.m. on Tuesday, June 1 will fea-
*tnam. “ , - -
. ture “The Fabulous Five,” a combo

It was presented by Roger Wallace,
president of the W&L Young Re-
publicans Club. Jeff Wainscott, who

from Greensboro, N. C. Brown prom-
drink never
before found on the W&L campus”

ises “a rare and exotic

originally suggested the plan, was fo, liquid refreshment. Brown would

present as were Roy Tyler, Rod not release any further details on

Boren and Howard Epstein the exact nature of the drink pend-
The officials had left a Vietnam ing approval by the ABC Board

 

 

 

strategy conference to meet the dele- Brown. an SAE from Memphi
i gation, They expressed their pleas-' Tenn, named recently his seven
ure with the favorable reaction to vice-presidents. They are Bill Price
| the administration's policy, especial-'Sar- Larry Manning. Beta: Jo
jly after the recent student picketing! Bear. Phi Delt: Pete Dinkle Beta:
j to protest United States’ actions in| Dave Geer, Phi Delt: Ashley Allen.
Vietnam | KA; and Rick Carrell, SAE
: Sent To Other Schools | Once again the Dance Board is
With the approval of the Stat |planning to held the concert out-
Department officials, copies of the] side. The same arrangements which
| petition were sent to Mary Baldwin,| were made at Springs will be car-
| Randolph-Macon Woman's College, | ried out in hopes that the weathe:
| Hollins College, Sweet Briar, and) wij] permit this experiment. Also,
jU Va. : Dance Board stressed that it
: would take the full cooperation of
| the student body to make this event
ram ‘enn a success. The rules which were in
j effect for the Springs concert will
‘To Be Featured again be enforced
. Jim Crothers, Dance Board Presi-
e + > dent, announced that those student
In Ariel Ss Final who have not filled out the Que
tionnaire tor next years entertain-
The 1965 Mahan Awards will be|ment do so this week. The form
feaured in this vea final issue of| should be returned to Crothers with
Ariel in addition to the regular se-j any additional comments as may be
i lection of student fiction, poetry and| appropriate
criticism. The issue will appear be-
fore exam . .
According to editor Jim Ledbetter, OuPont Art Show Features
Ariel will present original publica- Painting By WAL Students
ition of the wward-winning short|
lorie of Bruce W. Rider and W ard| Painting by Washington nea Lae
Briuy Jt ind the winning poetr | Univer tudent artist now o
ent of Richard Simon | di pla n the university irt waller
Fiction and Poetry Approximate! 75 paintin } thie
Included with the Mahan Aw i 1) student members of ‘ rt atu
| be fletion Ledbetter, Gra i | of a i=! dem R
m Powell and Frederick G. Eck Prohask lisplaved, The in
n | in Ledhbett Liewel ' m le woudh Ju
Sy (hi Bennet H. G. Good "The painting efleet the ) ‘
wa ii Jar Hobb ned a ei ca sf ‘ ick WoO ou ‘
essay Ch Milne = ; a = aaa
No ‘ ‘ in 0 ‘ i i .
: ind i editior i ‘ ) ) ‘ .
v0 ue one ] cor ed » a ncle .
2 ue Ariel I ke sraged to
i priced $1.25 i oO
‘ ‘ ) on Su
Level l nda i," Mr. Prohask 1 “In fa
ecito 1 > i ‘ ’
Ms m Po wt id l
Bo V ed
} Ariel x Po . ' '
D List I ! I
ff 0 He M 7 7 '
Ariel } :
 

 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Tuesday Edition

Conventional Dress: A Rule or a Tradition

Recent referendums dealing with conventional dress and
the Assimilation Committee have stimulated debate not only
in the E.C., but throughout the student body. There is un-
doubtedly widespread disagreement in regard to the role of the
Assimilation Committee in preserving the tradiaion of conven-
tional dress. Last week the new Executive Committee opened
discussion once again on this perennial campus problem, and
after a careful evaluation of the Assimilation Committee and
its current policies decided to suspend the fining power of the
committee beginning next September on a trial basis.

This action has elicited both positive and negative response
from the student body and faculty. A number of persons have
voiced their opposition to this experiment on the grounds that
the decline of convention dress has been the result of a ten-
dency to liberalize enforcement over the past few years. On
the other hand many believe, and we strongly concur, that the
vast majority of the student body would willingly support con-
ventional dress without the petty fining system of the present
Assimilation Committee.

The referendum held last December on conventional dress
and the Assimilation Committee indicated that over 90°) of
those voting favored the tradition of conventional dress while
the policy of the committee itself came under considerable
criticism. Although there were some who urged that the en-
forcement of conventional dress be strengthened, almost all
voters voiced discontent with the present operation of the com-
mittee. If these statistics prove anything it is that the student
body overwhelmingly supports the tradition of conventional
dress and that the student body is dissatisfied with the present
policy of the Assimilation Committee.

In light of these and other factors we applaud the bold
and progressive manner with which the E.C. intends to deal
with this dilemma. Unless the student body is openly hypo-
critical, support for conventional dress need not be based on
a quasi-police organization for which there is little or no re-
spect. In the final analysis the student body will determine
whether it can maintain this valuable tradition without a fining
system for the E.C. will not hesitate to reinstate the full powers
of the Assimilation Committee if it becomes apparent that stu-
dents are irresponsible in the exercise of this freedom.

To those who say that this experiment is idealistic we would
hasten to point out the idealistic foundations of a good many
of our traditions. Certainly, the concensus on this campus
is widespread discontent with the policy of enforcement of con-
ventional dress. Therefore, it is encumbent on the E.C. to give
the student body an opportunity to support this tradition vol-
untarily. Here again the ultimate responsibility lies with the
entire University community. Perhaps much of the idealism
which surrounds the maintenance of conventional dress will be

disspelled this fall — hopefully not.

The Ring-tum Phi
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“t=

== au

Cut that out, it

 

isn’t very nice!

Simian Types Arrive For Dean Rodrieguez

 

By ARTHUR McBLAIR CROWLEY
Mr. Ozzie Blatz, Curator

Riviera County Zoo

Bluefield, West Virginia

Dear Mr. Blatz,

This is to inform you of the forth-
coming shipment of three-hundred
and fifty male gibbons arriving on
September 8, 12:30 p.m. EST, via
Chesapeake and Ohio .There will be
a brief stop in Lexington, Va. for
cage cleaning, but we are expecting
no other delays.

I feel obligated to call your atten-
tion once again to the unpleasant
nature and repulsive habits of these
animals and remind you that only
experienced handlers should be used.

Best Regards,
Conrard Fern, President
Gibbon Imports Ine.
- * =
MEMO
from the desk of Ozzie Blatz
Sam,

We need those apes here early, so
get Harry and Dave and go on down
to Lexington and pick them up in
the station wagon. Be careful. I
hear they're pretty touchy animals.

Ozzie
Mr. S. S. Blitzkrieg
Assistant Vean of Admissions
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia

STEPHEN P. SMITH
Editor-in-Chief

RICHARD N. CARRELL Dear Sonny,
Wanted to congratulate you for
the fine job you've done with our

1965-66 freshman class. I understand

 

 

 

 

 

a ee Editor... ee —— that all but five students scored
Assistant Managing Bilt wmv Hal POON shove seven-Atty in both the math
ig on a tare] #4 verbal SAT. Am looking for~
" ‘ ward to addressing them when they
Sr a Biave Renders] Tetum 10 Lexington from Freshman
ee een a the eighth.
Columnists.......Bert Phillips, Lamar Lamb, Drew Baur, Bill Burke, Dave Sincerely,

Marchese, Allen Hubbard, Pete Alford, Tom Carpenter, John Hugo Rodriguez, Dean

Kirkley . . .

BUSINESS STAFF Long distance telephone conver-
Subscription Managet.................0-« ee Jim Redenbaugh/ sation between Sam Tutt (Lexing-
Circulation Mamagers .........cssssereseecesssseennenes Randy Chitwood, Bob Priddy|ton) and Ozzie Blatz (Bluefield)
Advertising Mamagers ........000csssersverees oseemne Jeff Bridges, George Madison | September 8, 9:30 am. (time: 14
i John Wolfe, Al Byrne! seconds):

 

Automatic Rule Should Be

To Allow Freshmen A Year In Residence

with a minus 2 average should be
given another chance.

But let's look at the first semester
freshmen. Can the committee really
judge who must leave the Univer-
sity on the basis of only one semes-

By BIFF BARKER
Tuesday Columnist
l

how

suggested that no!

much care and
concern the Com-'
mittee on the Au-

week
with

Last
matter

tomatic Rule has| ter's performance?

studied each stu-| The University should recognize
dent's case, last! that some students who have a great
semester the re-| deal of potential may at first have

trouble adjusting to college. Some
that the committee; may not yet have gauged their abili-
relied too much’ the amount of time
on numerical av-| work requires

erages in deciding, Some people

sults suggested

ties or college

from prep schools

 

Barker i
18 were reinstat-| that now they can sit back and)
ed all freshmen below a .18 were| relax. It may be argued that mid
kicked out. I suggested that the i terms ought to provide a sufficiently
committee permit itself more leae-| rude awakening. But for some mid
vay by doing away with the aute-/ terms may be a warning too late
natic rule and setting up a more! In addition, what about the stu-

ambiguous flunk out point. In this| dent who does all right at mid terms
the committee would be freer to| and then falls apart in the second
judge each ease on merit. half first Thats
it is quite possible that someone with happened before, you know. Is thers
a 5 should be told to leave! nothing that can be done for him’
are students from public

way

own of his semester”

its

iverare

er at least threatened, and someone/ Also there

who must go All| having finally gotten into college,’
freshmen above aj might think the presseure is off and)

i

Reconstituted

high schools who have never had to

with three hour finals

New Freshmen Make Lasting Impression

| “Hello?”

“Hello, Ozzie? This is Sam. They
| got away! Everyone of 'em! Climb-
ied right out of the back window
iof the station wagon while we
| was parked in the middle of tewn!
| There was nothin’ we could do! Har-
;ry and Dave are out now, tryin’ to
| round ‘em up, but it might take all
| day.”

“All right, Sam. Just do the best

you can.”

+ *

Herb Parker, Regional Manager
Pres Brown Sports Shops

1213 Lamoy Avenue

Dayton 7, Ohio

Dear Herb,

Have been doing a landslide busi-
ness here today since the new fresh-
man class arrived. (Already given
out over 200 credit cards.) They've
all been buying like crazy and I'm
completely sold out of croquet mal-
lets, sunglasses, and unicycles, which
seem to be the three most popular
items. Also sold quite a few pairs of

*

|

stock I need replaced.

By WARD BRIGGS |

I have heard many people com-
plain that movies are very fine en-
tertainment, but that they have lit-
tle relation to our daily lives, and
are over when the lights come on,
as if to wake us from some super-
natural fantasy. Here now in “Beck-
et” is some food for thought which
should last quite some time after
you leave the theatre.

I believe this movie asks many
questions and the answers may de-
termine whether you have honor or
not. However you may symbolize
these characters, whether Becket is
a maturing adolescent, a man facing
his master, or a college student thrust
jinto a world shorn of his boying
pleasures and perplexed by the mat-
ter of his personal honor, these
questions, you must decide for your-|
self.

Some of the questions which this
movie asks are as follows:

Henry and Becket first dissociate
when they discuss whether they
are friends or not. Is honor, like
friendship, partially lost er in
question when it has to be dis-
cussed and not simply taken for
granted?

Is morality for you simply an ex-
ercise in ?

|

 

“aesthetics”?
When you keep your word, do

 

Hope you're doing as well,
Ed

* +

(Excerpt from the dairy of Dean
Rodriguez, September 8, 1965)

Dear Dairy:

It is now 3:30 p.m. I've just spent
the entire morning interviewing
members of our incoming freshman
class and I find myself much more
optimistic than in previous years.
I entend to see to it that Dean Blitz-
krieg gets a raise in salary for the
fine job he has done in selecting
what I believe to be our finest fresh-|
men in a decade.

 

They are all, of course, somewhat
eccentric, but that is to be expected
when one takes into consideration
the amazing overall S.A.T average of
the class. As far as their physical ap-|
pearance is concerned I must admit|
that they are not quite as attractive)
personally as our last class, but I
noticed that in matters of dress they
are impeccable. Most of them wore

 

bermudas. Am enclosing a list of|

tight-fitting grey suits( I heard they
are the rage in the Ivy League) that

(Continued on page 4)

 

By ROY TYLER

I watched twenty-six people walk
into the library Sunday. Out of the
twenty-six people who walked into
the library, only four had on con-
ventional dress. Three of those fou:
were alumni. Only one student had
on a coat and tie.

So what?

Well. it might not mean any-
thing te you, but it meant quite a
bit to the alumni who watched the |
parade of levis, bermuda shorts
and sport shirts. They were dis-

gusted at what they saw as was L |
i

 

 

| cope
Bad Study Habits
Sure, some freshmen may have)
lousy study habits. They may have
gone down the road too much, joined
the flick team prematurely, or waat-
ed too much time drinking beer at
Doc's or the Paramount. They may
have been foolish and immature. But
it is quite possible that many will
profit from their mistakes
Immaturity or inability to adjust
in the freshman first semester should

not necessarily be sufficient ground

for expelling a tudent from scnec

After all. the automatic rule

a punishment for naughty bey i
hould merel eparate from the
uinversity tho na art mabie oT
unwilling to do the work hers

 

   

It's hard to sympathize with tu
dent who eontinually ool off and
make ; bad a vcle Bu ' ous 2no
makes one mistake omething eis

WHY SHOULD FIRST SEMESTER

FRESHMEN BE KICKED OUT AT)
|ALL? WHY CAN'T THEY BE GIV

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Tyler Blasts Statement By heal
Defends Conventional Dress Stand

 

.|
>

Briggs Finds Reality In ‘Becket’;
Film Raises Question About Honor

you do it from honesty, or because
of some contrived excuse, as when
Becket gave his mistress to Henry.

Is honor merely a concern of the
living?

How do you reconcile honor and
collaboration?

Do we owe whimsy obedience in
all things concerning this earth, and
God our in all things
Spiritual?

Can the honor of God be washed
by the public penance of thrashing
or being expelled from school?

Becket is made noble by having
Henry tell him he’s noble. Am I ?
college student just because I’m
here? Am I honest because people
tell you you are?

In considering our honor system’s
penalty, do we pay as high a price
for being dishonest as Becket paid
for being honest?

I the answer to some of
these questions lies in Becket’s mon-
prayer:

obedience

hs
believe

asiic

“Oh, Lord, What do you really
want me to do? To remain p
monk here, in simplicity of spirit?
Is it a path to bring me nearer to
you, or is it too easy a way? I think
it would be too easy to buy you
this way, at a bargain price. ...
I think you mean me to defend
your honor peacefully, Hf I can,
with argument and with com-
promise, and if I cannot, then with
the full challenge of my office and
the searing force of what I know
to be right. I shall take up the
miter again and I shall go back
and fight with the weapons it has
nleased you to give me. In all the
rest, thy will be done.”

  
 
 

Letters )
To The

Editor...

 

 

 

Chaplain Alvord Beardslee
Apologizes To Phi Psi
Hollins College, Virginia
May 14, 1965
The Editor, Tuesday Edition
Ring-tum Phi, Washington ‘and
Lee University
In the
I made certain
Kappa Psi at

made

February 19 Ring-tum Phi,
remarks about Phi

W&L. Those remarks
to encourage all W&l.
fraternities to improve and not neces-
ingle out Phi Kappa Psi
alone for criticism

I am well aware that Phi Kappa
Psi is not only the oldest fraternity
at W&L, it having been established
in 1855, 110 years ago, but that many

were

arily to

of its members have become promin-
ent in their respective fields of en-

deavor.
| J. W. Davis, who ran for President
listen to his argument, but when | of the United States against Calvin
he attempts to convince people | Coolidge in 1924, was one of these,

| that we must have open collars to
achieve this vague condition of
academic excellence, | would sug-
gest that he go over his reasoning

j}and other alumni of the Washington
j}and Lee chapter of Phi Psi have be-
i come Senators, Congressmen, Gover-
nors,

presidents of large corpora-

one more time. tions, banks, insurance companies,
. ete
Obviously what Mr. Awad is fight- M fu
| i n oO is ype i ‘ TO
ing is conformity, even though he : , type are a credit to
| any fraternity, as are those who are

never comes out and says that he is
doing this. If Mr. Awad is so much

working with the present chapter to

' build a complete! .
against this conformity that he be-|7™""* * Completely new fraternity
nou in tnre years, ¢ 4 ,
lieves is crushing his academic en- an . ‘ irs, Culminating a
fifteen year fund raising ¢ ‘
does he the : . _ ising campaign

deavors, why suggest
we look “ beyond the Shenan-
doah Valley” to some of the “better”

   

 

 

for $100,000
working

those who are
with the present chapter to

: well «iS

Though the idea has been put). poo? If we do this and copy nprove its recent scholastic record
forth that conventional dress is in-| the avsiem they use (ne sysiem at! I am now delighted to report that
consistant with a state of “. . . all) weulda’t we setuslly be cone! Phi Kappa Psi at W&lL has, because
academic excellence”, 1 feel that forming . just a little? | of ich effort at improvement,
those who say this are far off base Why can’t we be diferent ion lifted cholastically its entire
For example Jim Awad in Fri- lthose schools who have a situation| ?" dye class of 1964-1965 for initia-
day's Ring-tum Phi was kind enough different from ours? Do we have ition and continues lo demonstrat
to inform the student body that as) i, copy their type of rules or lack bility to appreciate and build
long as conventional dre is @n-/ of rules to be different? upon great heritage
forced we will never be able to Mr. Awad’s entire argument seem ALVORD M. BEARDSLEE
ac sdemically —— with schools to have no basis whatsoever, though :
like Yale W itiams, and all the rest the proble m to which he calle atten- IFC p > sid . * +a
| of the “better” colleges in the coun-|ji0, doe There in ne reaannabk ‘ resident Griflin
“— first | wante dto ask Mr. Awad basis foe Mi Awad ee way that be-| Explains “Jewish List”
' : . : . : cause Amherst doesn’t have con-|

ww - didn't go a — of these ventional dress it has achieved aca-|Genlem
i choois if he whougnt hey were s0 demic excellence 1 think that Mi | | writ P mn reply to a
| yo h he . - Ww nena and | Awad would not say this, but what! Menast I a al

4 t adiadnt want t *§ - nll i i ; '
the et if TAS el a a cs lo belt | ™ ale : onan Wa mngen ind] Ro . - - ed 7 the
aoe tat tee eotiidnt ont in. Aion es Lee has not realized it full _ poten i ium Phi o M 14 1985

A : ; i| beeause of eonventional dr Th m co ‘ slic of
might have em ui ed me Oy tell- This equally a ansensical aa the! sislishis = ti io of te
ing me he had bes ccepled to one previou anaes’ a ' ' . _
ol lies roo: it ial x if | 3 + ™ : ra and
Oo come nere i Mr Awad doesn't like te wear i . canman

wi ou m >? | eve & coat and tie to class, let him ish chairmen

ou to questio sat one come right out and say it. He Mt the start, I

srdensom litior 4 will accomplish nothing by saying , Mr. L ind

o us that an open collar will make Mr. Ro ) not

— or er Washington and Lee more con 7 nt h-
; cerned with academics than it is ’ : van

this is the situation’, it is treuble now > pu h lists a
lt is trouble beeause he is raising i )

a very big stink about two things Ph reasot ’ M: { \ saint ent
whieh are totally unrelated: the | °°" wilh conve , : ree not ndoning the
wearing of a coat and tie to class | (> at allow iden KI sleral :
and “aeademic excellence.” HW Mr, | concern themeerve wm a > i . ™ of

Awad had said that he just didn’ Also, | would ike to kno H .
like to wear a coat and tle to class, | Mr. Awad question ' wiahe : of

| then | would be more inclined to (Continued on page 4) (Continued on page 4)
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 
   

there

=
a )

By TOM CARPENTER
Tuesday Sports Writer

that the 1965 spring sports

Now
activities have ended, it is time to
see that the many unheralded ath-

letes at Washington and Lee gain
credit for their various accomplish-
ments.

The first of these shadowed stars
that comes to mind is Norman Scott,
who over every weekend proved
himself the best in Lexington on the
bowling machine in George’s. Scott
overeame the acknowledged cham-
pion Doug Bielenberg for the third
consecutive time and was acclaimed
by all spectators as the new cham-

Track Leaders
Named For 1965

The varsity track team in a meet-
ing last week selected rising seniors
Lee Johnson and Jimmy Thompson
as the co-captains of next year’s
squad. Johnson is a distance man
from Louisville, Ky., while Thomp-
son is a middle distance man from
Atlanta.

They will lead a strong group of
returning trackmen next year who
helped to lead Washington and Lee
in a rather successful season which
was highlighted by strong victories
over several state opponents, but
mediocre performances in the Col-
lege Athletic Conference meet.

The season featured meets against
some of the states outstanding track
teams, including the University of
Richmond, which was a high finisher
in the Southern Conference meet
last week
minion College, which finished sec-

 

at Furman. and Old Do-| 9 his game for most of the season,

Andrews, Bendann, Bowersox Head

General Lacrosse Squad Next Season

z —— ; * By KIP ARMSTRONG

| The varsity lacrosse team met for
CroslandNe the final time last Thursday and
elected junior mid-fielder Billy An-
drews of Salem, Virginia and sopho-
more defenseman Lance Bendann of
Baltimore, Maryland, as next year’s
co-captains.

Golf Captat
Ed Crosland, the junior captain of
this year’s varsity golf team has been
re-elected as the head of next year’s
group. The stylish Crosland, whose
shining moment came in the College! 7
Athletic Conference tournament last |
week at Sewanee when he finished
second in the league, had a few rough
moments this year. Although on top

Jay Bowersox was

the hard hitter from Short Hills, N.

 

its schedule soon after spring vaca-
| tion.

when he controlled many face-offs
and kept the offense moving.

the All-Conference team for the sec-
ond straight year. Butch West fin-
ished with 143 goals in twelve
ames. Freshman Dave Johnson had

 

The season record of 4-7 does not
fully indicate the success of this 8
team, which lost two overtime en-
counters and three by a single goal.
The team was composed largely of
inexperienced sophomores. Due to
the early season postponement of a
game with Hofstra, the team had
played only two outside games be-
fore it entered the roughest part of|

seven, and senior Frank Morgan was
unscored upon in five appearances.

There are hopes for more early
season outside scrimmages and games|
next year, which will serve to give
the team more playing experience
before the season commences. The

it

 

pion. Scott's timing is fantastic and

ond in the Mason-Dixon Conference | J., ran up against some tough op-

team was as well or better condi-

his eye matches that of Willie Mays. | this Spring. Although the Generals | position as he fell in several match - | tioned that all its opponents, as evi-
denced by not a single pulled muscle
|all season. This was an attack team
offensively, as Klingelhofer, Moch-
aeles, and Pittman accounted for|
fiifty-nine goals and _ thirty-seven!
The most potent mid-field
unit was the third with twenty goals, |
while the first and second followed
with eighteen and thirteen respec-

It seems a safe prediction that Scott} were unable to defeat either of these| ©:
will reign as champion for years to| early season opponents, they never-
come. Steve Lunde is his most per-| theless staged fine shows which in-
dicate from those returning a hope)!
for the future on the Lexington cin-
ders.

His sophomore year at Washington |
and Lee he compiled an admirable
4-2 record in dual meets and medal
scores in tournament play. His jun-
ior year was undoubtedly highlight-
ed by the conference win.

The golf team in general had a
fine season but not quite up to the

  
 

sistent challenger. |

Shaun “Crow” Donahoe is another |
sportsman who deserves recognition |
for his achievements. Crow is one of |
the few remaining talented pin ball
players at W&L. Donahoe practices||

assists.

 
 

 

rarely, but has never been known}

 
 
     

expectations of pre-season observers.

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

  
 
  
 

 

tively. The team outscored its op-

 

 

 

: Jay Bowersox
They were defeated by the Univer- yonents 114-103
to turn down - challenger. Donahoe '|sity of Virginia and by Lynchburg : “roll lingelhofer ;
relies on experience to frustrate his| ji College in dual meets, and they fal Billy Andrews Cores ingens — me sane Lacrosse Statistics 1965
; i ' ollege in dual meets, an ey abe : Bendann earned starting berths on , :
many opponents. ; i tered badly in the state tournament Salis Gass Gls As'ts GB
Al “Shap” Shapliegh is another of @ at Hot Springs. named alternate captain. This is the}. 7 py ——
the unheralded lot at W&L who de- Netx year the Generals will suffer! third straight year in which a boy ' Klingelhofer eee 28d & 54
serves recognition. Shap’s field is} the loss of only one senior to grad-|who had never played lacrosse be- Michaeles ae 12 18 11 29
cars. He has driven in sports car uation, Dick Drew of Anderson, S.|fore coming to W&l, was elected ee 12 16 30 74
races and rallies, and he cannot na C., so the Wa&L golf prospects ap- captain, Andrews follows Syd But- Robertson, Pat .... 12 8 3 107
seem to get it out of his blood. Shap Thompson -Johnson ‘pear to be good for next season. ler and Pat Robertson in this ca- Fst ..-..sscesssssssseree 12 7 7 58
probably leads at W&L for speeding —_-— —— | pacity. BOWErSOX o2.0:0:0000006 12 3 4 66
tickets acquired while at school. His] geese shh pmaanennaiess sf Geach Swen died Bilte’s enews ADGTOWS. cccsecsse00000s il 1 0 42
green Mustang is well known by all be ‘ Z ee ee, Oe 3 4 35
e . ability to be around the ball and his ‘ ,
state troopers from Staunton to Roa-| @ W A F strong defensive play that make him Daesener ............. . 2 7 0 22
noke, and several of the hard work-| @ in ew eee s ewe ee == 11 9 é ¢
) é an outstanding lacrosse, player. 4
ing men have had personal inter-| % fe oe NN seccsctenseians 12 il 3 29
: ; Bendann led the defense for the .
views with Al at various times in ew a = : GOW cans. 8 2 1 6
se eee second straight year. In each game, ‘ .
his three years in Lexington. . ones ; DE cane 0 0 69
ance was assigned the opposing Stewart 12 0 0 39
Bruce Commander also has distin=| Bo csemmmoves emusic ii team’s outstanding attackman and Gambill aiid =. ¢ 2
guished himself at the wheel of var-|~ did a tremendous job, often facing BMD ssesssesveeesee ‘
ious autos. It is reputed that Com- By DAVID DOUGHERTY one point in the season had the low-| non much aiae i. his Sefoot-9 "| Sledge ............ _ s =
mander has totaled six cars in nine Tuesday Sport Editor est earned-run average in the na-| 169 jbs The performance against
months at WélL, but this figure has| All is now quiet in Lexington — in-| #0". a “ iy “> = a speedy North Carolina, when he held their
not been confirmed. A truly great|deed there is no more athletic activ-|¢@5t Which le e¢ nations major! nigh scoring attackman to one goal,
record if true. ae ity in our little town, and in looking colleges in stolen — nape the was typical of his season long pw CENTRAL LUNCH
Fast Eddie Allen deserves plaudits| back we would have to say that the close _ agu ee - His total of sixty-nine ground balls TRY OUR FAMOUS
for his stamina and persistence, two saddest event of the silent spring a — ere agal s id hi : is fantastic for a defenseman in la- SWISS BURGER
qualities that are a must in an ath-| Was the manner in which the Vir- which o Gve inming-es no-nitier | crosses.

lete in his field. Allen has accumu-!8inia Military Institute managed to
lated more mileage than any other /ose their shot at the Southern Con~-
student in Washington and Lee his-| ference baseball title last week.
tory during a school year by virtue) We had an opportunity to drop
of his daily road trip. Allen is in| into the proceedings at V.M.L’s can-
the process of setting a record for| yon baseball diamond when they en-
consecutive road trips that may/|tertained Furman in a crucial dou-
never be approached, and his num-|ble-header. Going into the contest,
ber of road trips for the entire year|four teams in the conference were
may be a new W&L record. Neither| bunched around the top, with Fur-
car trouble nor illness can stop Ed-|man a full game ahead of the Key-
die’s activities because of his desire|dets but a game behind league-lead-
and spirit which will continue to| ing Richmond. When all was over!
lead him to new heights. Eddie will| the Paladins had slipped into a tie,
go down in history as the greatest/for first after downing V.M.L, 1-0)
distance man ever to attend W&L. | and 7-0, thus killing the title hopes |
The last man who deserves recog-|°! the locals.

 

nition for his unheralded athletic| Actually we were very impressed
achievements is the incomparable| with the quality of the ball played
John Eddy Moore. During Springs|by V-M.L all this season, and to
Weekend J. E. put on one of the! baseball fans it was quite an enjoy-
greatest displays of courage ever| able afternoon to watch them against
seen anywhere. John Eddy, who was | Some pretty rough opposition. We of
unknown prior to Springs as a tal-| course got to see All-Conference
ented prize fighter, issued a chal-| basketball star Charlie Schmaus han-
lenge to 260 pound Dan Parker, a\ die third base and two other fine
defensive end for UVa., out of his| cagers, Robin Porter and Jeff Gaus-
weight class, but he was quite willing| poh! fit into the lineup.
to prove to his followers that no| The outstanding attraction of the|
one can deter him from displaying| year, however, was pitcher Percy|
his true talents.

poeeooeeoeeoes

|Sensabaugh, a local product who at!

 

 

Adair-Hutton, Inc. |

Lexington, Va.

ve Headquarters for Men's Wear
Ww Gifts, Items for the Home
w Appliances

We Welcome Your Charge Account

i i i i i i

 

‘
4
“
‘
‘
4
‘
‘
4
4
‘
’
‘
:
.
.
4
4
4
:
‘
.
.
4

 

:
2

PRESSES SSS SESE ESSE SEES S SESS SEES ESSE SESE SESSESESS

Good Luck On

Your Exams

We thank you for your patronage
this year and are looking forward
to serving you next year.

Rabe Phillips 66

Randolph and Nelson

 

 

:
:
:
:
:

OL RC

was broken up by a hot single off
the bat of Dick Snyder, more fam-
ous for his heroics on the basketball
court as the rebounding side-kick of
Fred Hetzell.

Yes, they were all on display on
the adjacent campus, where during
the course of the year there is an
excellent variety of outstanding
events with top-flight opposition.|4
When there no action in the z
sports vein here at Washington and z
Lee, it is very worthwhile to drop|¢

$
+
+
’

Left-handed middie Jay Bower-
sox is the largest man on the
squad and was assigned to play the
toughest mid-fielder on the oppos-
ing team throughout the season.
Jay's best effort of the season
came in the finale against Virginia,

Frroreeeseererereseesees

LEXINGTON

CLEANERS

1 Hour Dry Cleaning
COMPLETE SHIRT SERVICE
EEE EE ESE SES EE SESE EOES

—

is

over and support the Keydets.
Old Dominion College, formerly
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the White Top Restaurant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome
EE ree er a neee oe ae ES)

ee

 

 

 

 

Hey, Look Me Soe

 

. acs Sh get A \
rN Z
> aie AAKK.
LP ChE:
oe aan

2-P>

    

Get acquainted with the “Route of the Pace-
makers”’—the area served by Piedmont Air-
lines. Then, next time you're traveling along
this route—a trip home, to a friend's for a
holiday or to an athletic event, call Piedmont
Airlines or your travel agent. Discover how
easy and economical it is to fly, You'll find
Piedmont F-27 prop-jete or 404 Pacemakers
mighty comfortable, and Piedmont’s friendly
hospitality mighty enjoyable,

PIEDMONT
AIRLINES

 

 

Lance Bendann

__ || Serving food and beverages

Mon.-Thurs., 6 a.m.-12 p.m.
Fri.-Sat., 6 a.m.-1 a.m.
Sunday, 6 a.m.-12 p.m.

Telephone HO 3-2834

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
| 35 S. Main St.
Phone HO 3-4121

| Keepsake Diamond Rings
| Modern repair department

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you
TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE

Southern Inn

FREE

Summer Storage

* Moth Proofing
* Mildew Proofing
*% Odor Proofing

All you pay is the cleaning charges and a
nominal fee for Moth Proof Bag.

 

For the Most in Dry Cleaning

LEXINGTON ONE HOUR

MARTINIZING

Lexington Shopping Park

USh OUR DRIVE-IN WINDOW .
YOU DON'T HAVE TOO GET OUT OF YOUR CAR

|
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Dougherty: Monarchs End Strong

(Continued from page 3)
Norfolk William and Mary, which

ington and Verne Canfield will
welcome thirty - three basketball
players to the campus in the be-

 

(Continued from page 2)

| ready to state “publicly and honest-

(Continued from page 2)
zipped up from the inside so as to
display no buttons, and many of

Freshmen Score 75 On SAT Test

accent which is typical of New Jer-
sy or Brooklyn at its worst, and I
found myself constantly asking them

ly” its reasons for any action for
which it is responsible, at any time.
CHUCK GRIFFIN

Tyler Defends
Coats And Ties

over the years has managed to
field one of the nation’s top small
college baseball teams, has man-
aged to do it again with their
1965 edition. On Friday they
clinched the Mason-Dixon title
with a twin victory over Western
Maryland. The Monarchs, who
treated the Generals rather rough-
ly in their visit here this year,

a majority of the fraternities—I be-|
lieve this is called democracy.

I agree, gentlemen, that such prac-
tice is not desirable; but I feel that
the LF.C. has a responsibility to its
members. The fact exists that at least
one fraternity has a clause in its
national laws restricting the pledg-
ing of Jewish boys. Thus, it becomes
a matter of which party do we choose

ginning of the coach’s revitalized
program.

Also Mr, Canfield has brought
the state’s second finest young
tennis player to W&L to play on
the varsity which will be weaken-
ed by graduation. It is for certain
that entering tennis ace Tom Reu-
ger is not anxious for Washing-

to repeat what they ha dsaid.

On the other hand, their responses
to my questions were, to my mind,
indicative of superior intelligence and
a great amount of common sense. In
short, I liked what I saw. They
seemed resless at time, often neglect-
ing to pay attention to what I was
saying. One freshman, for example,

them had hoods to match. The tra-
ditional Weejuns seems to have
been abandoned in favor of a new
type footwear which is lined with
fur (for warmth, I imagine) on the
outside, is leather soled ,and has no
ties (a loafer of some sort). I am
anticipating no trouble with any
more assimilation referendums this

 

hopefully will work their way back
to Yankee Stadium in New York
where they last year won te NCAA
small college division baseball title.

Actually this year they had a
little difficulty about midway
through the season, when after they
had belted a few Ivy League teams
and the University of Virginia,
they traveled to New York State
where they were knocked off
twice by Elmira College. This
started a chain of losses which
put Randolph-Macon in the top
spot of the southern division of the
Mason-Dixon Conference, but the
Monarchs came roaring back to
cop the honors with a late season
rush,

Congratulations from this depart-
ment have not as yet been extended
to Washington and Lee’s baseball

ton and Lee to schedule South
Carolina during his stay here, in-
asmuch as his only defeats here
in the state have been to Virginia
Episcopal standout Bobby Heald,
the number one boy in the state
who is heading to the ACC school
in September on a tennis scholar-
ship.

Anyway, we will review this year
in sports next time, so we _ best
check the files on the Sewanee game
and get to work.

 

(Continued from page 2)

EN A SECOND CHANCE? As the
rule now stands, some are never giv-
en the opportunity to prove them-
selves.

to hurt? If we publish a single list
of the entire freshman class, we will
be doing an injustice to those houses
whose hands are bound by such
restrictive clauses. If we follow the
discriminate
against the incoming Jewish fresh-

present

men.

policy,

we

I would appreciate

gentlemen, if you have one. I would
also like to point out that, contrary
to your inference, the LF.C. stands

an answer

Freshmen Should Stay A Year

Administrations at a number of
top universities do not think so, To
be brief I will just quote two letters
I have received. Thaddeus Seymour,
Dean of Dartmouth College, says:

(Continued from page 2)
better to have a student who has
on a coat and tie but is intellectual-
ly stagnant, or a student who dress-
es according to his own standard, but
has a genuine interest in what he’s
learning?” To say that all students
who did not have to wear a coat and
tie to class would suddenly be trans-
formed into students chasing around
after “academic excellence” merely
because they are released from the
chains of conventional dress, is, to
use a word Mr. Awad is extremely
fond of, “absurd”.

If it takes an open collar to make
a person think, I recommend that
Mr. Awad, and those who agree with
him, attempt to take a job after
graduation with a firm which either
requires the wearing of a coat and
tie to work each day but does not

 

year, as these new students obviously
recognize the advantages in looking
their best and already seem to unan-
imously favor conventional attire.
As I said, they are not quite as at-
tractive as our last class, most of
them being somewhat short in sta-
ture, dark skinned, and with an ex-
cess of body hair, but this can be
explained by the fact that a great
number of them are from the North-
east. I also noticed that a lot of them
speak unclearly with a very strong

 

LETTERS
Editor:

I am in favor of conventional dress
on campus. It is a form of courtesy:
the courtesy that students extend
to their professors and to each other.
To say, as some have, that coat and
tie have little to do with intelli-

played with my typewriter the whole
time he was in my office, but this
is nothing but the exuberance of
youth and the searching of a hungry
mind. In fact, that young man re-
minded me of myself at his age. He
had the same inquisitive exprecssion,,
the same impatient mannerisms that
I had as a boy and can now see re-
flected on the face of my son, Jaun,
who will be ready for college next
year.

I am looking forward ‘confidently
to an excellent academic year, as
the potential of these new students
is inestimable. I firmly believe that
Washington and Le _ has finally
achieved what it has been after for
so many years: an almost perfect
freshman class.

H.R. 8-8-65

 

 

 

team and its three All-Conference} A couple members of the rein- “We make an effort to continue fresh- require any thinking, or a firm which| ence is to state the obvious but to LEE EEE EEE REE eS
players in particular for their out-| statement committee claim that they|™e throughout their first year. Un- allows you to eumne to work in aj miss the point. Only a fool would $

standing performance at Sewanee | are really doing some first semester less a man fails all his work and is toga, but does require thought. Ac-| contend that proper dress will make| $ ROBERT E. LEE

Of course most know about the Gen-| freshmen a favor by kicking them waved a by = ae cording to Mr. Awad, you cannot a gentleman. But courtesy and : BARBERSHOP

erals going to the finals of the tour-|out because they couldn’t do the rte pare 7 7 _s" 10 ANG think with a tie on. thoughtfulness are the marks of a/% "

nament, but few realize that Ashby| work if they were let back in. How| 'eV!ew his work in : une. —!| gentlemen. + OPEN from 3:00-5:30

Allen, Skip Chase and Pete Heu-|can the committee know this after} Says Richard D. Challener, Asso-| NOTICE! Let’s get the coats and ties back z

mann were selected to the All-Star| only one semester?! They say they| ciate Dean of the College at Prince- : on. MILTON COUMLVIN | geogesteogesteoteogesteogestesteoteoteoteogeste ote otecterteodeste ate

ton: “It is virtually impossible for a
freshman to flunk out at the end of}
his first term in residence. It has|
been our policy for some years to)
give entering students, if at all pos-|
sible, a full year in which to prove
themselves. We believe that the
transition from school to college is
often quite difficult for students and
that it would therefore be unwise to
imake final decision about freshmen

 

 

have all his test scores, high school
records, and background material,
but it was on the basis of this in-
formation that the student was ad-
mitted to W&L!
Poor Indication

Thus the only indication the com-
mittee has that a freshman can’t
make the grade at W&L is one set of
marks earned in a difficult period of
transition and adjustment. Even

Students who have not paid the
spring registration fee must do so at
once or make arrangements for send-
ing the bill home if they wish a
place held for them on next year’s
roster. This includes men transfer-
ring to law.

team.

Ashley pitched in with five hits
over the weekend including a grand-
slam home run. Skip came up with
three hits and fine fielding, while
Pete hurled the Generals to victory
over Centre in his best outing since
his no-hitter over Richmond Paro-
fessional Institute. These players
managed to afford the Generals a
wisp of glory in an otherwise gloomy

 

errr rrr tr res
IDEAL
BARBER SHOP
Quick Service
terroesrenoseosoreseesid

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelery Repair
Hand Engarving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

OLLEY’S PHARMACY

 

—_— ss
SPS SSS SSeS Se

 

 

 

 
 
  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
  
  

season, considering the experience of some! in academic difficulties on the basis Prescriptions Filled
In our final issue of the year this | of the members on the committee,| of but a single term of studies.” inmodintely Your Full Service Bank
department will beat the bushes to | does one semester's performance A Telephone Pole PURCHASE DRUGS

One member of the administration
in defending the expulsion of first
semester freshmen said that a person |
who drives his car into a telephone |

provide the committee with sufficient HO 3-2211
information to make such an im-

portant judgment?

find the outstanding moments in
Washington and Lee sports this
season, Perhaps it would be in
better taste to take a look at next .

 

 

in Lexington

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.

season, when a red-hot footfall pole gets no second chance; he must : R.L H. e

; ; ; ° ° ess * >
team is expected, and when Lex- }  ¢ pay the consequences. I should hope] @ and Bro. e b d
— i W 4 \ i that our committee on reinstatement 3 JEWELERS : Rock rl ge National Bank
would have more understanding than] e Lexington, Virginia ®
THUR - FRI - SAT a telephone pole. 3 HO 3-2833 : Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

e

7 +

e

STAT

LEXINGTON, VA

 

 

THE ACADEMY AWARD WINNER!
“BEST PICTURE:

om
jones!

 

  

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

Summer Opportunity

(Male Students over 18)

 

 

 

 

——=

 

TOWN INN
ABC 5392 on and off Students can earn in excess of $150.00 per week while working towards

Scholarships, Trips, Prizes and Awards.

The
COLLEGE INN

 

 

This year Collier’s Vacation Earnings Program offers College Students more

erate erent prizes and awards than ever before in the history of the Company:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FRESH AS A FLOWER IN JUST ONE HOUR ——Nine days all expense paid trip to Japan——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

+ . :

$ Ic * ; ——— . s re 1,000.00 op roa |

t on ft) Axington Shopping Par —Three 00.00 Cash olarships !

US. 11 SOUTH MAR I UMIZING, Lexington, Virginia ——Valuable Merchandise awards H

seeseesrsessosrroorooned THE MOST IN DRY CLEANING j
|

Students accepted for summer will have an opportunity to work in location
of their choice.

 

Two-Way Radio Dispatched

TAXI SERVICE Wishes To Announce

 

Low Rates $30.00 in I \ omens hg Waynesboro, Va. Petersburg, Va
; dry Cleaning Service for Only $4.98 ichmond, Va. Lynchburg, Va. Charlottesville, Va
’ ,
CLAYTON'S TAXI een _ . Virginia Beach, Va. Staunton, Va.
7 ‘ ; “ ewport News, Va. Danville, Va. Fredericksburg, V:
= & keen & You get a book of 30 $1.00 dry cleaning tickets. Then Norfolk, Va. e Seam eS - r

you bring your dry cleaning into our store, and if your

 

 

order is $2.00 you pay $1.00 and use one ticket, if your

 

        
     
     
   
 

 

 

eeeeeeeereeeeeeeeeseeees Qualified previous Employees would have opportunity for Management i
: : order is $4.00 you pay $2.00 and use two tickets. And mi ’ . |
: wal, BLASER e|}, 88.0" and so forth. All who would be interested fill in the next few lines and mail promptly
: With University Crest ° The book is good until Dec. 31, 1965. Se you have plenty of time in order to receive first consideration,
3 . to use your book and any member of the family may use it, We |
. and Buttons e only have a limited amount of these books for sale se place your
© The © |]) order for your now, Mr. Ernest G. Burnett
. . kos
: COLLEGE TOWN 3; HURRY! HURRY HURRY! District Manager
: ae 707 Insurance Building
: Student Charge Accounts : 10 South 10th Street
° Welcomed 3 Seeecccccccccoooocooooce Richmond 19, Virginia
e 7
se ecccecccccecesecosooes Clie and Mail $ Please mail or deliver to me >
; a yo $ one of your books of 30 tickets § Name
ith your check ® .
| Shirt Service as You Like It wae your ¢ ; vaya : School Address —__  —
Bring Your Complete Laundry $ Name °
to Us to TICKET SALES : a ° Home Address Phone
j ress .
Quality Cleaning and Pressing ONE HOUR : ° Date available for interview —.
omer ® .
UNIVERSITY MARTINIZING _— ° Date you could begin
BEANE Lexington Shopping Park ; °
a exington Shopping Par © if Delivery, Day : Area you prefer to work __
HO 3- Lexington, Virginia * e
* : Time a
° :
Seeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

“Your Campus Neighbors”
a

Lee

 

concern

  
