Che Ring-tum Phi = Ss

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

 

Volume LXV LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 7, 1965 Number 49

Hash Chosen For Senior EC
tT trareciay Stecteon Run-off

Vennery Meets [| SC 6 ilies Te

With Vaughan | |
For Arts VP

After ten run-off elections held
yesterday, all Class Officers for the
years 1965-1966 have been decided
upon, with the single exception of
the Vice-President of the School of
Liberal Arts, for which position a
second run-off will be held on Mon-
day.

 

In the contest for Senior Execu-
tive Committee, KA Mike Hash,
from Nashville, Tennesse, defeated
John C. Moore, a Delt from Rich-
mond, 97 votes to 82. In Monday
eee i Mie night’s elections, Hash received 35
: . . » » 36 é Pi. iw

Newly elected IFC head Chuck Griffin shakes hands with incumbent Steve Hibbard, Also in picture are ae =. ~— a 1“ . a
Associate Justice Geoff Buller, incumbent Secretary Patton Adams, Vice-President Billy Cannon, and alter- Pra pa “off hi > . pang Ae of
ete Barry Vi : at rig shairm: 1 Burk, alternate Jody Luck, outgoing treasurer Brooks | ‘* a . =
wate _— pod yo ag lon m dome , come . of Pittsburgh was elected over Billy
Brown, and Secretary Marry = Se Andrews, a Delt from Salem, Vir-
= ginia, 105 votes to 75, after having
Ten Positions Filled In Elections Tuesday ——e Py 40 votes, respec-| J

tively, Monday.

a Rick Richmond, a Beta from) avy we i ps ’ ;
f | Charlottesville, defeate -| = ‘
I C pee rte — ile : defeated Bob Hud Seven members of next year’s EC pose after the runoff Thursday. In
e s e son, Phi Ep from Ridgewood, New| ¥
5 Jersey, for : . : = front, the Big Three, Dave Marchese, Fred Mindel, and Joe Framptom;
ersey, for the Vice-Presidency of|
‘ » |the Commerce School, by four votes,| "4" sophomores Lane Steinger and Richard Nash and seniors Bob Lee
SAE junior Chuck Griffin from Up-, Chairman with Delt Roger Milam as} goal of ‘model’ fraternity system. a te 3. With teres didate . "| and Mike Hash. Junior representatives Follo and _Seffress were absent.
per Montelair, N. J., was elected 1965-| his Assistant and editor of the IFC| In conjunction with this, Griffin 0 ; ith three candidates run- ss ailiadilciaiiaceeeate
66 President of the IFC at a meeting of} rush booklet; and Phi Psi Steve Lunde | made clear his views on present fac- | ™8 for the Vice-Presidency of the

the group last Tuesday. His election} will act as the new Social Chairman. ulty-fraternity relations: “The facul-| Liberal Arts School, none attained Over 300 Alumni From 5 cs
came somewhat of a deviation from triffi as SAE’s Rush Chair-| ty, I feel, is not against fraternities as

as Griffin, who was §

: a conce * reality, but they are > ‘ W
the norm as he was not the choice of} man this past fall will be president} concept or reality, ee A d R Th k d
the IFC’s nominating committee—the| of the fraternity next year, commented | against some of our practices and SENIOR tten eunion 1S ee en

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

traditional deciding body—but was} that he holds a special hope for an | ¢UStoms. The President-elect stated | E. C. ... Mike Hash
rather nominated from the floor; with| elevation of the W&L fraternity sys-| that he plans to work more closely . . Bob Lee} More than 300 alumni and mem- journalism and communications, and
each house on campus having one| tem to one of a “model” or perhaps with the Faculty Committee on Fra- President Jim Redenbaugh | jo; of their families will converge| the new science facilities — and also
vote, Griffin was given the position.| even “ideal” status among the US. ternities—headed by Dean Atwood-—in V. P., Liberal Arts sesrenneseenes : on Washington and Lee University) attend classes.
2 colleges and universities. To this end| Order to relieve some of the existing} V. P., C. School Rick Richmond today for a three-day reunion of| Following a noon luncheon at
Elections for th other nine mem- he cave, “Stenting ment year we will friction between the Hill and the fra- V. P., Science ..... Steve Sweitzer) five classes. which Dr. Cole will speak on “The
bere of Ge BU wan oe nene ot - have the headquarters of two nation- ternities. Secretary . Dave Redmond An innovation this year is the ad-| State of the University,” the alumni
— mare Billy ‘ a . al fraternities in Lexington; in addi- Griffin hopes that in this way a more Historian Maurice Fleiss dition of a fifth class, the graduates! will be free to play in a golf tourna-
Ep from Culpeper, _ will be - tion and much more important, there | effective communications system can JUNIOR of five years ago. The class of 1960| ment, spectate at the W&L-Loyola
new Vice-I resident, while 22 es will be over 80 per cent of the stu-| be set up between the two groups; E. C. Kirk Folle| Will be joined by the classes of 1955| lacrosse game on Wilson Field, tak«
Dennery from New — _ — dent body in fraternities, With these] this in turn will almost force the fra-| — Bill Jeffress| (19th reunion), 1940 (25th), 1926,a bus tour of Natural Bridge, o:
-_ Yancey oan S — Bova facts and all other points considered, | ternity system as a whole to undergo! president Mike Saunders| (49th), and 1915 (50th) loaf
aeaieaies: =A Ged lea” dues W&L is definitely headed toward this a bit of profitable introspection. Vice-President Alan Wade| Included in the weekend activities| The annive: ary ¢ banquet
Greensville, S. C., was subsequently Secretary Chuck Staples are receptions, guided tours of new| will be held Saturday night, be-
chosen as Senior Associate Justice; GOP H f | Pp Tt Ik On Historian Bob Priddy buildings, Pe = a pone Y" p.m., = will be fol~
} | Ee | sports anc parties 1¢ highlight) owed by the general reunion party
Pi Phi Jody Luck from Manassas, Va 0 u ercy a ) SOPHOMORE wi he the oa anniversary clics|in the R. E. Lee Hotel. A break-
and KA Barry Vaught from Atlanta s , li . E. C. Richard Nash banquets at various locations in| fast Sunday morning in Evans Din-
were cleced w she vos of Jo Businessman’s Role In Politics Lane Steinge| Lx nstn ing Hall will wind up the activiie
Alternate Justice President Dave Johnson) The alumni will begin arriving) —— . 5 rnsansneeneenian
These seven students will also com Charles H. Perey, prominent Illi-| Elected president of the United Re-| Vice-President Charlie Tomb) this afternoon. Dt Ollinger Cren-| =
prise next year’s IFC Judicial Coun-| nois Republican and successful busi-| publican Fund of Illinois, he raised! Secretary Ellis Zahra) shaw, a member of the class of 1925! ay
cil~a sort of Student Control Com-| nessman, visited the Washington and| more than $1 million yearly. In 1955,| Historian Craig Barley} and now head of the history depar:-|

mittee for W&L fraternities and, with} Lee campus this afternoon. Appear-| President Dwight Eisenhower ap-

Runoff Monday between Den-| ment at Washington and Lee ,will| CONTACT APPLICATIONS
the exception of the two Junior Al-|ing here at the invitation of Jim| pointed Percy to represent the Unit-

 

. . ’ 7 : |
: nery and Vaughan refresh fellow alumni memori.s on} Applications are now being ac-
; g side 4 Sie . ates : , »sidentiz augue
ternate justices, will pass judgment|DeYoung, president of Pi Sigma/ed States nt the — a il “eo the history of the University and Lee} cepted for the chairmanship of next
. . } ‘ tle lence a . Bc rhe ’ | . .
on fraternities brought before the | Alpha, honorary political science fra-| rations in Peru anc biivia ater | Chapel in a 7:45 p.m. welcoming ad-| year’s Contact week-: nd Letter

Council for infractions of the IFC|ternity, Perey spoke on the role of| he gained the appointment of chair-|the necessary majority of votes cast) dress Friday night
Constitution “A Businessman in Politics man of the Republican Committee forty-one to be elected: Harry

on Program and Progress, a com-|Dennery, ZBT, polled 35; Rob

| presenting a list of qualifications and
Following Dr. Crenshaw's address,| requesting the position should be

 

ways : ae g J sity president Dr. Fred C.| sent either to Chuck Griff ew!

In addition to these officers, John Percy's political career began in : ‘ tien’ ; : : Universi i t t ruc iriffin, newly
itte sh ex : » nation , , 4: LA ; =

Burk, a Kappa Sigma from Fi. Worth,| 1964, when he organized a Republi- eutine WHER CRANES he RONEES Voughen, 0 De Mt, 24; and Charlie| Cole and Mrs. Cole will hold a re-| elected president of the LF.C,, a

’ , . : m3 1. : a _\ future as well as present issues Mayer, a PiKA, 22 votes. Another leeption fo j si in Evans D sithe SAE : an ie 1)

Texas, will be next year's IFC Rush’ ean group for veterans of his state In 1964. Pere for the Renub- | ceptio r alumi 1 Evan ining) the S ». house, or Blaine Browne!!

eiucenaeaeameemmacnamnennanee n 1964, Percy ran for the Repub-| run-off election, between Dennery Hall la Kappa Sig and chairman of thi

“1 "rte é WHMNnALC 3 y . » . . . . = aoe
licean gubernatorial nomination of} and Vaughan, was scheduled by the Saturday will be a full day of| year’s Contact week-end. The dead

Jon Supak Named V aledictorian) tii vvcrsvey sndtin the primary] og ony g Manday, May 10, from] activities for the former students line for these applications Is. nex
and extensive anc t ‘ 5 2

am, to pm. in front Of and guests. In the morning they w'll| Friday, May 14
that saw over a million registered) Washington Hall

° ° : / : tour new physical facilities ir- Applications for the position will
With a 804. Cumulative A verage ee aa = a — - Next year's Junior Class elected) cluding the newly-remodelea Reid) also be a red if sent to Post
opponent by more iafi a Quarter 0 (Continued on page 4) Hall hou ing the department of Ofiice Box 23

 

Jon Allen Supak, ZBT senior from; of ZBT and as a member of the staff) @ on s = tidat
i, : i ; ut as the Republican candidat
Virginia Beach and winner of two) of the Ring-tum Phi. . mae — ;
teaching fellowships, has ben chosen| For the next two summers he plans for Governor of Illinois, Perey Se Clarifies Trial Procedure

defeated in one oi the closest a

 

 

valedictorian of the Class of 1965 to spend time studying German at the ;
lth ‘ S ona West Ger-|'" the country Incumbent Demo-|
Supak was selected by the faculty University of Stuttgart in West Ge

as the senior degree candidate with| many. The University of Heidelberg | crat Otto J. Kerner was elected, but Honor me Examined Before Students

| is also a possibility, he says, “But | ; 1
th highest cumulative academic aver-j| ! ilso a possibility, r cast. Perey's swift rise in Illinois

   

 

     

 

 

age at the end of the lirst semester o wouldn't get too much studying done.” politics and his impressive showing| In Lee Chapel Wednesday night Paul, played by Lamar Lamb, wa y ow prepared b
the current session, with a total of 89} Aterwards, he plans to return to the i his first campaign for an elective it the executive committee he 7 a mock brought in and questioned, but oa Jim De im and an innocent sum
A's, 15 B’s, and 3 C’s-—a grade-poin | United States to study at Harvard offices ee a ts ain specu-~| honor trial, E.C. President Jim Kulp/ never actually told of his offense| mary was prepared by Dave Ge
ratio of 2.804 University for his Ph.D. in Philosophy Setien canserainn Pevey’s potential an (ete that, “Our purpose was to get and was never asked to admit o: at Kulp’s request
wes i eeage . ‘ i i

As valedictorian, Supak will de-| intending eventually to go into teach | Be publican Presidential material }across to the student body a bx wer aa " : Alter MA su .
liver the traditional student addr i — Perey ha received monetary | Understanding of the func UGnINg e Neverthe Me Paul a ured ; the the committees ) . a
at the commencement exercise on awards and much special recognition the execulive committee durin an | committe that, though he may have} Underwood U nou
June 4 | in the course of ive | honor trial and knowledge ine | ooked t Ed Bell's papet to ee found him not i

Supak was recently named to re | and political life. He presenti ids | duties vested in each member nee i “ mee po . the Chuck Walker then ex i
ceive a Woodrow Wil Fellowship ix honorary degrees, is @ trustee of} After calling the meeting to order,|" : ed time Be ee no on eigh ies were ns :
winieds imalasdon tuition fe ly fo the California Institute of Technel-| Kulp proceeded direct vith the], a wwe ae 1 Ed) viet :
wien i ‘ (Continued on page 4) | il. It seems that George Newton!” layed : Stua Fin an Ku ‘
one ear at an America wf act hal al ' , ‘ ' . il i iid } , that there had
i erait piu S100 al I | at pe th pe , 7 5 — - - 7 en cheatir and was not eve “% = == = '
expenses, bu _ j| "Fast Eddie” Allen (eae Bg pln gy Peale, tting around h i

‘ ‘ an ad “> . ‘ :

e will Ku ‘Hits 60 Road Trips [brought the matter to his E. Ed Bell's t |! I taken

= oe For New W&L Record lJim iu | that of Paul Underwood's, the EA ee . ; ;

He has also ) . mind a of Unek ’
iortn iu t A : tu ’ Ru : -— 4 0 mh ‘ ; .

> seas 7 | Con in|the B.C. in order to he ! ied with Bell's. How |

i i Ph.D ' ! : ‘ ; on ! . ~ rr , \ i nT that Uneds oad a :

i expe i | ne ‘ kidnaped, | Beldic ; ’ 0 wi i no 1 Underwood : 5
ith he W ' iA > Nu ‘ i Cus / . Un : -“ . . I hid ) ’

til af l i } cu é tir lo ‘ p * r o> t¢ ‘ { we

Supak wad. Ti yoke th ) ecord o i i vl | } ‘ yrurse had ) (

m to both | b Kaj 150 we Bret Faxt rt 0a, 10 ‘ ‘ D plu eceived .
Omicro LD K py eged i I Edd { ' W H ‘ o :
temnities a lintis Who's Who in } ecord I s le K
American Colleges and Universities | Loperena. But Fa Ediclic nm | , . : Oneig ) et she ‘ :

\ , } Jon Allen Supak 0 vw here ao i } cused vane ) a W ) } ce could be K

vorking on 2.804 ) » la i ) 7 70 i ) i U nds rod

 
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Friday Edition

 

Not Quite a Travesty

Class elections this week proved to be something less than|

the “travesty” predicted by many so-called campus politicos.
This week’s results proved rather convincingly that students
can select competent leaders without the guiding hand of a
clique.

The election was also significant in that it showed a simple
solution to the seemingly difficult task of selecting leaders.
Next year students could run in “‘completely open primaries”’
which, in effect was what happened in Monday’s actual elec-
tion. After the primary a regular election could follow.

Any student who wished to seek office would be given an
opportunity to do so under this system and the student body
could then select their leaders without the high-pressure often
associated with the clique system or any fraternity connections.

 

Active Representation

With the election of class officers yesterday and Tuesday's
selection of IFC officers for next year, the annual Spring
thrust of posters, papers, and propaganda has been completed.

Elected officials have based their entire campaigns on a
new era of “active representation” in student body govern-
ment. It is the hope of the Friday Edition of the Ring-tum Phi
that these campaign promises won’t disappear as do the leaves| ~~
each Fall.

Next year’s leaders are going to find it necessary to go
to the students, not expect students to come to them, if an

effective system of representation is to matetrialize. The ODK

Leadership Forum and the IFC may provide channels through
which the E.C. can work in order to get badly needed student
opinion .

The newly elected Executive Committee should give both
these bodies immediate consideration as channels for a student
voice. If either could be developed, a significant improvement
in student government at this is University may well occur.

The Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college |”

year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia.
Entered as second class matter September 20, 1946 at the Post Office,

learned to love the wonderful world

By BROOKS BROWN
Chairman, Assimilation Committee
First of all concede that

the conventional dress tradition at
Washington and Lee is not as signi-
ficant to our way of life
or system or student

we can

as the
government.
it represents a
clearly positive
force in the total
perspective of our
campus life. Ever
since General
Lee’s presidency of
Washington Col-
lege, this universi-
sity has had a tra-

 

 

Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878. dition of a total
SHANNON JUNG RICHARD CARRELL Brown prc san
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager offers more than student govern-
EDITORIAL BOARD ment, more than the honor system,

Ken McGraw, Billy Cannon... Managing Editors} 2nd more than academic activity.
Blaine Ewing, Sam McChesney... a Assistant Managing Editors| Tj; experience is composed of the
Howard Epstein. eaunapnccssnnenssncoonsonescesononsoosonsocosesssessscssessessssssesccoqoscnnesee .News Editor total of these things, and the tra-
SIE Sac crsaitnsticcccannieiaanieniihnnestaninaitsieesnanien Assistant News Editor/ dition of conventional dress is cer-
ects cccceneeene siasiis Sports Editor] tainly part of this total. To eliminate
CS SS ree Photography Editor canventional dress, of rigorously
Jim Dawson, Bob Si ssssseenentensesnsensteintestiontnsnctaticcsscccaieemasemeneeen Associate Editors compromise it, would only detract

 

James Jennings, Tracy Harrington, Bruce Rider, Pete Alford..

ice Columnists
BUSINESS STAFF

Subscription Manager
Circulation Managers

‘Randy Chitwood, Bob Priddy

 

Eugene O’Neill’s Long Day’s Journey Into Night

Cartoonist | ;

uJ riday Advertising Agent

Jim Redenbaugh

sialianeaiiiiiaiaialiieaas Jeff Bridges, George Madison
is sseineineeetebenineneninees anes John Wolfe, Al Byrne

rom the value of Washington and
Lee's total experience. I feel it is
significant that the majority of the
student body realize this—for in the
recent referendum only 5 per cent

voiced an opinion to eliminate con-
ventional dress

I

to

believe that we should face
the realities of ow

up
situation—

 

 

hon- |

On the other hand,|

“If you have learned nothing else this year in Geology, | hope you have

of rocks.”

Hickey On Crowley’s Nose
Sets Off Border Rivalry

By ARTHUR McBLAIR CROWLEY victory would have been mine had
“Oh! You’ve got a hickey on the|not my mother “Tony’s nose”
end of your nose!” in a final attempt to force me, by
It was my grandmother that final-| pricking my ego more than slightly,
ly noticed it. To her it looked like|into submission and a trip to the
an ordinary pimple. But it wasn’t.| dermatologist.
I knew that for sure because I’d had
it for twelve years — on the end
of my nose, which is somewhat long
anyway and therefore in no need of
an extension. Why it took her
twelve years to notice it I'll never
understand. Twelve years is a long
time.

At any rate, when we got home
(we had been in the car when she
made the discovery) my grandfather |
took me under the goose-neck lamp
in his bedroom and examined it,
prodding it with the end of his pipe.
In a matter of moments he had
reached his conclusion:

“It’s a hickey, all right.
cancerous.”

said

Tony was, of course, the rather
short, unimpressive Mexican who
had taken my girl away from me
in high school and who, despite
numerous other insurmountable de-
ficiencies, had had an almost per-
fectly formed nose. My mother, ef-
fective, cruel, correct, had known
that, despite the fact that after tak-
ing up bullfighting as a profession
in his home town Boca Lizard he
| had been unceremoniously gored in
the back, Tony’s memory was often
enough to goad me into acts of
bravado — like going to see Dr. O.
B. Lamoy, which I did that same
afternoon, entering his office at
| three-thirty p.m.

“Get rid of it.” My mother had| At first glance I thought I had
been less frantic, her outburst more| stumbled onto an acne labyrinth —
of a suggestion as to how I might | the door through which I had come
assuage my grandparent’s fears than| was already clouding over with
a vandetta projected against what I} blemishes. Inside the fifty-odd pa-
caleulated at that time to be one) tients, their faces hideously mauled
tenth of my face. But, nevertheless,|by adolescence or simple lack of
I stoutly refused, putting forth two! personal cleanliness, were wandering

Could be

 

arguments: that it was scarcely no-| aimlessly throughout the room, arms
ticeable — that it would hurt to hanging limp, heads bent, eyes swol-

 

have it cut off; and I think ultimate! len closed, some mumbling to them-

 

Brown Issues Conventional Dress Warning”:

selves, others squatting around the
walls applying layer upon layer of
yellowish ointment.

Can I help you?” The secretary
a id looked up from her copy of The

it is clearly unrealistic to believe! will be dead without both an ef-) Silent Spring.
that conventional dress can survive | ficient assimilation committee and al “Yes, I'm Crowley. I came to see
without some kind of assimilation! consensus of student support. | Dr. Lamoy about my hickey.”

committee. Not only should this be
obvious, but the fact that we cannot
abrogate our student responsibiliy
in this regard is equally improtant.
The largest problem confronting
conventional dress student apa-
thy—and this problem becomes ludi-
crous when we consider that some
students consistently destroy assimi-
lation forms. In Neweomb Hall, for
instance, assimilation forms are usu-
ally destroyed within an hour after
they are distributed. If we do not
accept our responsibility for conven-
tional dress, it clear to me
that control in this area will even-

1s

seems

tually fall on the shoulders of the
faculty—for although they do not
want to administer conventional
dress, they clearly recognize its im-
portance and will work to keep it
viable. And let no student be doubt-
ful of this possibility, for there is

a strong vocal movement among the
faculty to strengthen conventional
dress, and their decision would be,

more or less, final

The point to remember
that conventional dress, even though
it might an occasional incon-
venience, positive and needed
attribute
eliminate

primary is
pose
is a
ol
it

would be to admit to a

degree that there exists unfortunate
student irresponsibility. Make no
bones about it, conventional dress

Stelling Calls Troub Production ‘A Decided Success’

By PETER STELLANG However, his southern

accent was! the part, his actions and ma‘ ter‘ sms
The Troubadour Theatre's final| consistently distracting, especially at|' were perfectly appropri: to he
production of the 1964-65 season,| the beginning of the play; and this character’ wze. Unfortunate! ’, his
Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey | continued to be distracting at cer- accent was simply too strong for him
Into Night, may be praised as a de-| tain points even in the important to be believable as a memb=: of the
cided success. The four Tyrones—| speeches of the fourth act. Neit'.er Tyrone family
characters drawn from O'Neill's al-| his perception of the characte: nor As Edmund Tyrone, Lew Davis a
ternatingly bitter and tender mem-|his acting ability were in any way ined almost to perfection the qual-
ories of his family—were beautifully| at fault for this; he imply did not ity of poetic melancholy inherent in
portrayed; and in the able hands of| enunciate clearly enotgh to prevent the character. The struggl tween
the director, Dr. Cecil Jones. the| the members of the audience from his concern for his own condition as
highly emotional play made its full| having to strain to make sure they consumptive and his grief at hi
impact on the opening night audi-| were hearing everything he said. Al- mother’s relapse into morphine ad-
ence | though he looked a bit too youn diction was keenly felt. The quiet-
Mrs. Elizabeth Ray turned out a!
compelling and sympathetic portrait
al Mar Tyrone ruggling against
iorphine addiction in the face of her
uspicion that her youngest son hi
consumption. Her gradual ation
om the three men under © ¢e¢l-
lex ol nor pine iter ¥ hing )
; temptiat i Oo retr ilo
} vwoauk fe i ord to forget het
ea Waal hienin ind thorough
M , 7 le
Doubly as «director and actor
did a tew ea 0 Moli«
rartufle, Dh Jor created a ma
iiftlecet porira of Jame Tyvrot
Sr. H ' nto the grief«stricken
iusband, the a usioned | et vd
‘ ded } o cde ed h
; ‘ te i
S tan ola tao :
pul ct The Coun, a Monte
Cristo lucid, and full of emo
ed } hea ecn
su
ny the he Jamie 'T e, J
j ( i xiuced at {
' ‘ m. H ense oO
ollie equire ‘ 0
i e val is che of «
ed he i ‘
ey de yped wa i Jay Cady, as Jamie Tyrone, gives advice to his younger brother Edmund, played by Lew Davis,
i oft nuch mo wlequate | fram the Long Da Journ iio Night, a Troubadour production

 

ness of his torment was in no way
overshadowed by the explusiveness
of the elder Tyrone and Jamie. It
served rather as a foil to their hot
tempers and emphasized the close-
ness of his nature to that °f Mary
When he did seethe over with emo-
tion his outbursts were quickly
checked, as they should be, by his
ense of remorse at the thought of
having hurt one of the people dearest
to him

In the role of the maid, Cathleen

(Continued on page 4)

*.

=

I do not regard conventional dress} “Hickey?” The nurse wrote hick-
as some kind of sacred cow that is|ey in the margin of her book, then
immune to change, but I maintain| turned the page. “Just take a seat.
that ill-considered reform can easily| Dr. Lamoy will be with you in a
lead to a total destruction of moment.”
worthwhile tradition. With this in| There were no couches in the
mind I leave it to you. Conventional; room so I squatted on the floor next
dress is not the responsibility of a|to one of the other patients whose
few committee members, but yours.| entire head was covered with a
Do not abuse it. (Continued on page 4)

 

Foreign Correspondent Reports

Cold War Diplomacy In Tahiti

By WARREN MONTGOMERY
Foreign Correspondent
PAPEETE, Tahiti, April 17—“You

live on Tahiti, sit on a beach, eat

| Erecting further difficult barriers to
the acquisition of visas to visit the
island, Franee has limited the dura-
tion of the visa to one week.

 

our campus life, and to |

bananas, eat coco-

Before these actions, visiting Am-

nut, never work.|ecricans had some legal representa-

f Non! all gone.| tive to which to turn, a visa was

Fini,” my Tahitian} not required, and a tourist could re-

acquaintance said|/main here for as long as_ three
» to me. “Maybe| months. Now all this is changed.

thirty years ago, An American wishing to visit

yes, but not now.”

The

Tahiti must first write to the French
consul in San Francisco, who waill
in turn forward the request to Paris,
which will then act it sees fit,
causing much delay and _ bother.
And, as my Tahitian friend pointed
out to me, “Why should American
tourist pay thousands of dollars to
visit Tahiti for only one week.”

If these restrictions cause, as
the Tahitians fear, a collapse of Am-
eriean tourism, the millions of Am-
erican dollars invested in Tahiti
hotels and air and steamship services
will be in jeopardy, not to mention
the Tahitian’s livelihood

French col-
ony of Tahiti re-
mains one of the
loveliest places on
earth, but con-
trary to popular
belief, the Tahitians can no longer
exist by simply catching coconuts
from the trees. Tahiti today imports
almost all the necessities of life,
especially food, from the United
States. The dietary staples which
support the population are not ba-
nanas, coconuts and fresh fish but
Armour canned beef and Green
Giant beans. Te pay for these food
goods, Tahiti relies almost exclus-

   

as

-
Montgomery

new

France's

 

 

 

 

new Visa restrictions in
ively on her tourist industry, 88%| regard to this island might be ex-
of which is American plained by the nuclear testing base
Because of the dependence of|she is building here, but not her
Tahiti on American tourism, recent] premptory request that the Ameri-
French policy decisions may have! can consul leave. If the forebodings
grievous consequences to the Poly-jthat I have heard from Tahitians
nesians here. Within the last few| here prove correct, De Gaulle’s Itt-
weeks, France ordered the Ameri-jest anti-American move will hurt
can consul on Tahiti to go home.' his people much more than us
WEL Intellectualism Mr. Claxton. Although a politician,
on too willing to discuss
Dear § pot onal after his leeturs
. = t Weshineten and La Howeve 1¢ dialogue was abortive
. d bed Wil, as on ine|'o Be was ru hed off to dinner
ution i racterized " rie ; st A
noniousl, righteou Contact Perh ou interpretavion ap-
reallirms his proposition overwhelm. Pe"! » contradict student and fac-
uly. The articles in the Ring-tum \ reports, but remembering the
Phi are quick to praise Contact (al-|! ¢ attendance, we feel we have
wugh the praise was qualified), me j neation tor our criticism.)
Contact worst paredy on ¥o tudenis n return to their
Washin i Lee intellectualism Gecader wurneosiam, having
und at be 5 ab ute for Beach rked ectual experience
Blanket Binge. It wa nice i ) id
certa nl | wa itter failus ' Wi ) ) completely
ured I ! of Contact |
I ) i< i] ‘ i ‘ rience hould
{ e town people had not at ‘ continual
tended Col. Milk ecture, he would wuld He ise Dut lo
i ok« oM Bro md a :
captive aud ee of cha ind co V\ 2 i ine ca
A S 4 relic incl se | | ’ m excellent
ou I poake irom ul tu ’ yut a 2 to
t USIA opn cal apok« ‘ , t= i i follow the path
a oO d ' m: Wiehe } | examination rath-
md Cate ‘ e: Col. Miller waa: iat : mnan ell-indulgenes
nae Sydney Lewis, Jr
| The pinnacle of the event wa Jon Allen Supak
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Edges L.C. 7- 6

On Perreault Homer

By LOCK HANDLEY

The power was finally on for the W&L baseball team)

Tuesday as they won their second game of the season, beat:

ing Lynchburg College 7-6.

The Generals got ten hits, in-|

cluding home runs by Larry Perreault and Ashley Allen and
Tom Crenshaw’s second triple of the year.

The win was also the second for righthander Pete Heu-|
against®¥—————

mann. As in his no-hitter
RPI, Heumann had most
trouble in the early

of
innings. |

his |

Lynchburg bunched six of their ten; But Lose To Washington;

hits in the second to go ahead 5- -2,|
after singles by Perrault and Dave
Kirkpatrick gave W&L an early
lead. The curveballing sophomore
setled down after that and gave up
only one more run,

Perreault tied it up in the fourth
with his homer, which came with
Guy Townley and Ed Bishop on|
base. Crenshaw tripled in the fifth
and came in on Skip Chase’s fly
ball, and Allen homered in the sev-
enth to put the game on ice.

Crenshaw finished the regular
season as the top General hitter.
The former Keydet, who was
switched from catcher to the out-
field midway through the season,
added a single to his triple Tues-
day to finish up with a .351 aver-

age. He also collected the first
W&L home run earlier in the sea-
son. Heumann led the pitching

staff in ERA as well as in games
won.

The Generals left yesterday
morning for the CAC tournament
at Sewanee, but with little hope of
bringing home a third victory to
offset their nine collegiate defeats.
Due to disciplinary problems which
have removed several of the more
experenced members of the squad,
W&L will go into the meet with a
lineup made up mostly of freshmen
and a three-man pitching staff. In-
fielder Larry Perreault has looked
good on the mound in several brief
appearances, but Coach Joe Lyles
is still woefully shorthanded.
Especially damaging will be the
absence of shortstop Kirkpatrick,
the team’s second leading hitter,
who quit the squad in the second
inning of Tuesday’s game.

The team to beat in the meet
should again be Washington, the
winner for the last two years and

one of the best small college teams
in the country. Unless they can
coordinate pitching with hitting,
and sharpen up the defense (which
committed seven errors against
Lynchburg), the Generals are a
definite pick to finish last.

 

Netters Lose to Wahoos;
Compete In CAC Today

Washington and Lee’s tennis squad
went down to its fourth defeat of
the season in a close match with
the University of Virginia netters
here on Tuesday.

The General netters lost to the
rugged Wahoos by a 6-3 margin
While losing five of the six singles
matches, the Generals did well in
the doubles, winning two of three.

Randy Jones did the top job of the
day for W&L winning his singles
match and then teaming with For
rest Dickinson to take the Virginia
number two doubles team. In a big
upset, the singles team of Jim De
Young and Lindsey Short handed
Virginia's number one singles team
its first defeat of the year.

W&L is now 6-4 on the season
The Generals this weekend are com-
peting in the annual College Ath-
letiec Conferences tournament in Se-
wanee. Also on Tuesday, the Gen-
eral freshman tennis squad was de-
feated by the U. Va. freshmen 9-0

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

Take a break from

your studies

 

COME TO

White Top

Restaurant

Route 66

| Stickmen Defeat Towson

Face Loyola Tomorrow

Losing to Washington College and |

the — and |
team saw

last weekend,
Lee lacrosse
go to 4-5.
On Saturday the Generals played)
a tough

and lost by a 12-4 score. Trailing|

by a 4-2 margin at the half, the Gen-|

eral game was worn down in the
second half by Washington’s better
depth. Also the Generals began to)
feel the effects of their travel to the
Maryland school the preceding day.
W&L goals were scored by
Bowersox, Pat Robertson, Duncar
LaMonte, and Dick Daesner. Butch
West played an outstanding game
at goalie making 19 saves including!
several real tough ones. Ben Gam-
bill was good at the crease and Billy |
Andrews did a fine job of ball!
hawking. W&L had some trouble
shooting, with Washington having a
43-29 edge in that department.

Generals Beat Towson

Monday, Towson was the oppon-
ent. The Maryland school was fresh
from a 7-6 upset victory over Loyola
of Baltimore. W&L jumped off to
four quick goals in the first period,
however, and never was headed as
the Generals picked up an 8-6 vic-
tory in 95 degree weather.

The Generals played a fine control
game allowing Towson to clear just
17 of 39 attempts, while W&L was
able to clear 21 of 27 against Towson.
The Generals had a big 67-39 edge
on ground balls and outshot Towson
43-28.

Carroll Klingelhofer played a fine
game fo rthe Generals scoring the
final goal and picking up three as-
sists on the first four General goals.
He now has 22 goals and 23 assists
on the season. Lamont scored two
goals and assisted Klingelhofer in
his fourth period goal, Mike Mich-
ales had two goals as did Bob Frist
while Bob Ostroff scored one.

Coming in for particular praise
from Coach Dana Swan was the
third General midfield of Daesner,
LaMonte, and Chip Chew. Swan said
they played a fine game against
Towson and allowed W&L to run
three midfields against Towson’s
two, to help wear down the Mary-
land school.

West had another fine game at
goalie as did substitute Frank Mor-
gan who came in late in the game.
Wicky Stuart played one of his
best games as did Bowersox who
played a consistently fine game.

Tomorrow the Generals will at-
tempt to even the record at 5-5 in
a game here at 2 p.m. against Loyola.
W&L will be trying to revenge
losses to Loyola the last two years

Loyola has a record of 3-4 so far
this season, but they've looked bet-
ter than that. They handed Swarth-
more its only loss this season, that

(Continued on page 4)

 

Hey, Look Me Soest:

    
 

 

Washington College squad |

Jay!
nl another forfeiture, and Sigma Chi |

Get acquainted with the “Route of the Pace-
makers”’—the area served by Piedmont Air-
lines, Then, next time you're traveling along
this route—a trip home, te a friend's for a
holiday or to an athletic event, call Piedmont
Airlines or your travel agent. Discover how
easy and economical it is to fly. You'll find
Piedmont F-27 prop-jets or 404 Pacemakers
mighty comfortable, and Piedmont’s friendly
hospitality mighty enjoyable.

PIEDMONT
AIRLINES

|

  

yo

Larry Perreault seunts third with the first General : run in Tuesday's
defeating Towson College in action! 7-6 win over Lynchburg. Dave Kirkpatrick follows Perreault.

mi we

 

* eon’! Mud, Forfeits Dominate Softball;
ZBT Opens Playoffs With Win

Numerous forfeits and
| fields have dominated the past two
weeks of softball. Last week Phi Delt
| forfeited to ZBT who has now mov-
ed into the playoffs. Beta gave Phi'|
Kap a boost into the playoffs with |

|did the same for Lambda Chi.

In games that were played, PiKA
|downed SAE led by pitcher Jack
|Kelly and home run hitting Jock
| Hopkins. The Delts overcame Sigma
i'Nu 13-10 on seven home runs by
Livingston, Woodward, Lester,
thony and their pitcher Charlie My-

 

ning but couldn’t hold back the ef-
forts o {the Delts.

A chance for revenge came
Sigma Nu-NFU contest, and
made the most of it,

in the
they

Rob Reading. The
was Frank Morrison, and the

winning pitcher |

NFU |

ry Taylor.
Phi Eps Forfeit
Last Thursday the Phi Eps for-
feited to the DU’s after a postpone-

ment from Tuesday due to muddy
fields. Meanwhile, the KA’s Herb
Smith limited the Sig Eps to one

 

and
SaWw

Washington Lee’s freshman
lacrosse team its chances for
a winning season go down the drain
Tuesday as the Baby Generals were
edged out in hard fought game
by the Roanoke College Lacrosse
Club, 5-3.

The victory by Roanoke
loss earlier in the
W&L squad by a 10-9 margin As
the score indicates, Tuesday's con-
test was an unusually tight defen-
battle with goalies for both
teams contributing fine performances
Jim Dawson in the Baby General
goal made total of eleven saves

for W&L

The loss to Roanoke ran the Gen-
eral record to 2-4. A victory would
have given the Generals a 3-3 mark
and at

a

season to the

sive

a

a chance a winning season

Such was not the case, however
Coach Dutch Van _  Rensselaer's
freshmen charges finish out their

1965 schedule on Monday when they

 

tangle with the University of Vir-
vinia’s frosh team. The Wahoos, tra-
in lacrosse, could

ditionally strong

 

 

a

muddy |

An-|

ers. Sigma Nu had a big second in-|

run, a homer by Steve Hussey in

| the first inning, while his team piled

 

up four runs in the fourth and fifth
| innings. The KA’s scored on three|
hits, two walks and an error. Howard
Davis was the SPE .pitcher. |
ZBY Whips LCA

The playoffs started this week!
with a game between Lambda
and ZBT. Bruce Kramer able
to restrict the usually heavy hitting
Lambda Chi nine to only a pair of
runs scored triple by Rick
Kneipper with two men on. Mean-
ZBT had a big first inning
piling up 5 of their 11 runs. Buck
Woodford pitched for Lambda Chi.
Moving from the league champion-
ship to the finals of the season, ZBT
» Phi Kap 5-4. Arthur Sher

Was

on a

while

overcam

 

scoring 29 runs! pitched fo
on homers by Bill Walker and Dave | Tedard
Redmond and the 6 for 6 hitting of| rors and few

pitchers were Dick Siciliano and Jer-| determine

Roanoke Seichunen Edge Frosh;
End Season Monday With U. Va.

avenged a @

the victors against Bill
Both teams scored on er-
hits in a hard fought
fame
The playoffs are still going on to
the overall winner for
Some of the leading con-
the law school and
Sigma Nu. Weather permitting, the
playoffs will be completed by the
first of next week. A wrap up of
the softball season will in the
Friday edition next week.

this season.
tenders are

be

furnish the Baby Generals with their
toughest competition of the year.

Mend game will be played here
time is set for 2:30 Monday
alternoon

Game

Shirt Service as You Like It

Chi "

 

_ Bring Your Complete Laundry © *
to Us

Quality Cleaning and Pressing :

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

es 8s Ah MO

 

"SALVATION ON
THE CAMPUS: |

aE
| i
a i |

by J. Glenn Grey
Rejecting the moral values
of their well-heeled parents,
college students today are
searching painfully for a
different kind of authority
that will make their new
freedom meaningful.

THE QUESTION
OF SIMONE
DE BEAUVOIR

Nelson Algren’s devasiat-
ing review of Madame de
Beauvoir's newest (and
most candid) autobiograph-
ical volume—in which he
is a central figure,

BOTH
Harper's

AT YOUR NEWSSTAND NOW.

   

end much mere—in
the May iseve of

 

Favor Washington U. As
Trackmen Go To C A C

By JOHN GRAHAM

Qualifying heats in 11 of 17 events
in the Third annual College Athletic
Conference Track and Field Meet at
the University of the South in Sewa-
nee, Tennessee began at 3 p.m. to-
day.

Finals in these 11 events as well
as the other six will be run off to-
morrow beginning at 9:30 for the
field events and 2:30 for the running
events.

The Generals are represented in
the meet by a full squad of 23 men.
These men, the nucleus of the team,
which compiled a 5-2 dual meet rec-
ord, will be aiming at ending Wash-
ington University’s two year domi-
nation of the annual event. W&L
finished third last year behind Wash-
ington and Sewanee.

Depth is evident on the
General squad.

talented
In the field events,

Dan Manson is favored to win the
shotput as is Rick Mynttinen in the

|

|

 

javelin. Luke Meadors in the long
jump and the triple jump, Johnny
Graham and John Lawrence in the
|pole vault. Ted Larson in the dis-
cus and Rich Hartgrove in the high
jump figure as strong threats.

The 440 relay team of Chris Kell,
Rob Orr, Spencer Sullivan and Bob
Bigham are strong favorites. Kell,
Orr and Sullivan will also be run-
ning in the 100 and 220. Bigham
leads freshmen John Wiley and Rick
Meiser in the 440, and joins Jim
Thompson and Bill Wildrick in the
880.

Co-captain Andy Kilpatrick and
Lee Johnson head the mile entries
which also include Ralph O’Connor
and freshmen George Parker and
Bob Stack. Johnson and O’Connor
are entered in the two-mile. The
hurdling crew of Mike Goode, Bob
Miller and Jeff Kugel also rate as
strong threats.

The meet is the finale to the Gen-
eral track season.

 

W&L trackman Jeff Kugel breezes to victory in the 120 yard high hur-

dies against Elon last Wednesday.

Kugel also picked up points in the low

hurdles and javelin to lead the Generals to a 90-55 win.

 

 

True artistry is expressed in the brilliant
fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en-
gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of
design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty
of the center diamond...a perfect gem of flaw-
less clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut.

The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the
tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting
satisfaction, Your very personal Keepsake is

VERONA

   

awaiting your selection at your
Keepsake Jeweler’s store. Find
him in the yellow pages under
“Jewelers.” Prices from $100
to $2500. Rings enlarged to
show beauty of detail.“Trade-
mark registered,

PSE 6 EE OO OHO SSSSG

 

 

HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 14
Please send new 20-page booklet, “How To Plan '
Your Engagement ond Wedding” and new |12-pege '
full color folder, both for only 25¢. Also, send '
special offer of beautiful 44-page Bride's Book.
Name !
' '

| .
a * ~ | Address i
i Geedtousetenpings |. ‘ i
(uaseerues i ity —_ o Stote i
eunw® L KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE, N.Y, 3902 J
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Crowley Faces Hickey Problem

(Continued from page 2)

plaster cast. He sensed my presence
and turned his face in my direction,
peaking through a hole that had
been drilled either for his nose or
mouth, but had missed both, center-
ing on his upper lip.

“What they got you in here for?”

“Hickey.”

[The great white head nodded}
lowly. “Me too.”

“The doctor will see you now!”}
She was looking at me. 1 rose, was
led to a small practice room —_
ped with sink, operating table, sev-
eral hundred instruments, “Dr.
Lamoy

“Mr. Crowley. Here about the}
hickey, right?” The doctor came
over to me and drew a circle around|
it with his ball point. “Yes. It will
definitely have to come off.”

“What do you mean ‘come off?”

“Lie down, please.”

| lay down. “What do you mean
come off'?”

“You can’t let it stay where it is
Could be cancerous.” Dr. Lamoy
began injecting my nose, then cut-

ting vigorously. A moment later, he

Lacrosse Hopes To Finish
Season With Even Record

(Continued from page 3)

by a 7-5 score. Playing unbeaten
Johns Hopkins, Loyola lost by a
close 10-6 margin. Another loss was

to Washington College by 13-7, in a
game close until the final quarter.
Loyola will bring a well-balanced

club to Lexington. They feature

three balanced midfields, two good) tg the mastery of theatrical inter=| 4:
‘

attack units, and a fine goalie. Coach
Swan predicts “one heck of a good
game.”

If W&L
take seeond place in
Division of the U.S. Intercollegiate
Association. Other
in the league Towson,
North Carolina, and
Washington leads the
3-0 record.

Generals will

the

wins the

Lacrosse

Loyola,

are

group with a

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA | MOBART 3-9424

 

 

STARTS SUN.

 

 

yeahs

CLIFF ROBERTSON | JACK HAWKINS

MARISA MELL sres sea.MASQUERADE’

EASTMANCOLOR UNITED ARTISTS

 

 

Strobhar |
schools |

Washington. |

was nervously trolling my _ hickey
around on the table top. “You got
nothing to worry about. It was a
vagrant oil duct. They're nevet
malignant. Had a Mexican kid in
here a few years back with twelve
of ’em on his tongue. Poor devil got

|gored from behind right afterwards,
though. There’s a lot of them Mexi-

cans around. I heard that if you
marched them two abreast into the
|sea they’d never stop comin’, I be-
lieve it, too.”

| - —

Reviewer Tiss
Play ‘Stunning’

(Continued from page hg

‘Elena Prohaska provided a good
touch of broad humor with a pleas-
ant flavor of Irish brogue. She
brought to the part the necessary
element of the good-natured wench
who is just a bit dull-wit'ed

In spite of the one incongruity of}
accent in the cast, the overall ef-
fect was stunning. By the time the

play had entered well into the fourth
ict, the audience was thoroughly en-

 

grossed with the action, purely sym-}

four characters, and perfectly
ing to believe in and be shecwed by
Mary's condition at the end of the
play. Long Day's Journey was well!
in keeping with the consistent
cellence of the productions which
have been staged at the Troubadour
Theatre under Dr. Jones’ direction.
His firm and thoroughly analytical |
touch as well as his deep dedication

eX-

 

pretation will surely be missed |
in the future.

1ere

  
   
   

  

Letters
To The
Editor...

Dear Sir:
I see by the Ring-tum Phi that a

white German shephard is enrolled
at Washington and Lee University.
I have been looking for the right
school for my “Rogue” and would

 

| like some information about your ad-
mission policy.

| He too, is a german shepherd and
| has an outstanding background. How-
ever, he mostly tan with
fringe areas that cannot be
as anything except black. Do you feel
this would keep him from being con-
sidered for admission?

Box 612

Ils

-VMI
Dear Box 612

In answer to your letter about your
“Rogue,” the admissions policy
for and ex-Keydets at W&L
is very lenient. All either has to do
is be able to bark

dog
dogs

FRITZ

——— a

Veweric

SUN.-TUES.

 

 

 

 

Ci

ML eg:

 

PNET et |

 

 

Lexington

 

 

Laundro Matic

 

® *

: Traditional : *

. W&L BLAZER 4 ‘

; With University Crest ° HAND IRONED
° and Buttons . SHIRTS

* The :

: COLLEGE TOWN 3; Dry Cleaning

; Shop Service

° Student Charge Accounts :

: Sidesmed : for your convenience

209 S. Main

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S
ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome

Acros from the White Top Restaurant

pathetic towards the suffering of the}
i
will-

some)

descril ved |

Charles Percy,
today at 4:00.

Three-fourths of

 

prominent Republican, who will speak in Lee Chapel |

Sendacin Vew

In Class Office Runoff Elections

(Continued from page 1)

Saunders, a Delt from Shelby-

i ville, Kentucky, President over Stu-
_| art Finestone, from Norfolk, a ZBT,
iby a vote of 93 to 77. Their respec-
itive totals in Monday's elections
|were 70 and 46 votes. In the run-
| off for Class Secretary, PiKA Chuck
Staples, of Auburn, Georgia, defeat-
ed Charlie Lee, a Phi Delt, 95 votes
to 70. Staples had 63 votes on Mon-
day, while Lee had 47. The Junior
Class Historian will be Bob Priddy,
a Phi Kap from Richmond, who

received 92 votes to his opponents’
69, 36 for Bob Reading and 33 for
“Do-N * eandidate Tom Hardin.

Lane Steinger, a ZBT from Creve
Coeur, Missouri, was elected as the
rising Sophomore Class’ second Exe-
cutive Committeeman, defeating
Wendall Winn of Norfolk, a Phi’
Kap, 173 votes to 109. This year’s
elections the first in which
|two Sophomore E.C. representatives
under the Amendment
the Student Body Constitution
passed in last month’s referendum.
| Elected Vice-President of the Class
| of 1968 Charlie Tomb, a Phi
i Psi from Pittsburgh, with 130 votes
jover KA Judson Simmons’ 123
Craig Barley, Pi Phi from York,
Pennsylvania, was elected Class
Historian, with 158 votes to Phi Gam
John Lee's total of 107

lothing

were

were elected

to

 

was

 

WANTED —copy of 1964 CALYX to
~ The bey stepping in the pud-
dle is my son. Contact John Gunn,

Newcomb 24 or at HO 33-4560

 

Apparently, the convenience of the
run-offs, both in location — Wash-
ington Hall and in voting hours

from 8:15 to 1:15 was appre-

ciated by the Student Body, Yes-
terday (79 per cent of the eligible
voters in all three classes electing
officers cast ballots, compared with
only 66% on Monday evening. In
the individual classes, 82% of the
approximately 220 rising Seniors
voted (only 61% on Monday); 68

per cent of the Juniors’ 250 students

| (66% Monday); and 86% of next
year’s Sophomores’ total of 325 (77%
Monday).

The results of Monday’s elections
an dof yesterday's run-ofls show that
the coming academic year will be as
follows:

'SDX Picks Fleiss As Head

Maurice Fliess is the newly elected
president of Sigma Delta Chi at Wash-
ington and Lee University. He suc-
ceeds Tim O'Keefe as head of the pro-
fessional journalism society

Other newly elected officers are:
Tom White, vice-president; Ralph Ful-
ler, secretary-treasurer.

Each year the chapter sends dele-
gates to the national SDX convention,
attended by Working professionals and
students.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelery Repair
Hand Engarving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

|
i
i

Gifts, Items

mH

Appliances

if
$
e
i
i$
3
:
;
;

 

 

 

:
i?
+
+

We have meal tickets at savings to you

TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE

Southern Inn

SOPH SSE HE SHSEHESEH EOE HEHE ESSE SESESEEEEEEEE
FREESE ESTEE SEES EEE SESS SESS EPO E EEE SEEEEEEFESE

Adair-Hutton, Inc.

Lexington, Va.

STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

See eseeeeeeen eee

Headquarters for Men's Wear

for the Home

We Welcome Your Charge Account

PERE SESS SS SES FEES SESS SES EF OEE S SSS SS SOSOESOS+EH
PEEPS SE SSSE SESE ESES SESS SE ESSE OSS SS ESSE SEES SEETE |

10 Per Cent Discount

W@L Students

(on dimmers $2.00 o

more)

Saturday and Sunday Night

738 to 8:0

ROBERT E. LEE HOTEL

PRESSES SSS SSPE TEESE SESS ES SEE ES EES ESSSSEEEEEETESS SSSS SESS SESS SS SESE SESS SS ESET ESSE SESE SES ESESEOS

‘Congressman R. Ellsworth
'To Discuss GOP’s Future

 

The winners of this year’s annual |
Mahan writing competition have been |
announced by a committee of judges |

in the English department. The award
winning articles will appear in the
forthcoming edition

ot “Ariel,” the

United States Congressman, Rob-
ert F. Ellsworth, the only Representa-
tive serving on three standing House
committees, will kick off the Wash-
ington and Lee’s Young Republican
“Eminent Speaker” Program in Lee
Chapel at 8:00 Wednesday night.
Ellsworth, a Republican from Kan-
sas, is now serving his third term in

Washington. His committee member-
ship includes the Post Office and
Civil Service, Veterans Affairs, and

Merchant Marine and Fisheries com-

 

mittees. He is also active on the House
Republican Policy Committee special |
task force on “NATO Unity.”

 

i their

portunities.”

The Young Republicans will b« gin |
registration program for next |
year at this program. They hope
! reach their goal of 500 members on
campus. Immediately afterwards, the
YR group will sponsor a beer rally
for the members and those who reg-
ister.

Representative Ellsworth received
a well diversified education includ-
ing mechanical engineering at the Uni-

versity of Kansas and LL.B. at the
University of Michigan. He was ad-

mitted to the bar and practiced in
Springfield, Mass. Since then, he has
served as the legal assistant for mari-

Federal Maritime Board. He
mitted to practice law before the
US. Patent Court, U.S. Treasurer De-
partment, U. S. District and Supreme
Courts, and for two years was a mem-
ber of the faculty of the University of
Kansas, School of Business.

 

TOWN INN

ABC 5392 on and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood
STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N. Main Street

 

 

 

seeeceocccceccreseccoees
.
=
¢ R.L. Hess and Bro. :
° JEWELERS °
= Lexington, Virginia .
; HO 3-2833 :
3 =

+

 

Phone

 

PPPS SS POSS tt > SSSSSS4S54666 le le lp De ee de de le de eee te eee te eee ee ee ee ee PEEP EEO EES

>+>

to| versity

 

time affairs to Vice Chairman of the!
is ad-|

 

A New Dining Experience

in an old Restored Home

Wescott's

Glen Maury Tea Room

(Just across Maury
from Modine Mfc. Plant
Buena Vista)

261-8494

SPCC SESESSESESCES EEE SECO E EES

Reservations Only

PEEEEEEEEESESEOEEOESES ETE OEE
Open every day, noon ‘til 9:00

*% Golden Fried Chicken

%*% Charcoal Barbecued Chicken
*% Country Ham

*% Fresh Rainbow Trout

*% Charcoal T-Bone Steak

"For those who think yam!”

Judges Announce Mahan Prizes
For Simon, Briggs, and Rider

literary magazine. All other
entries may now me picked up from
the secretary of the English depart-
ment,

It was

student

announced that no award
was given to a freshman this year.
The response from the freshmen was
disappointing, and there were report-
edly few entries.

The Sophomore Award, however, was
given to Ward Briggs, for his story
“Peter.” The specific virtues of Brigg’s
story its consistency
of tone of an unusual
narrative

were said to be

and its use
device,

Award went to Bruce
Rider, for his story “In Mansbury,”
which is notable for overall concep-
tion and for the use of specific detail.

The final

The junior

award, for excellence in
verse, was given to Richard Simon,
for poems which, although occasional-
ly contrived, successfully exploit tra-
ditional forms.

His topic is “The Future of the Re-| Percy Regarded By Many

publican Party: Its Problems and Op- | | As Strong Rallying Force

(Continued from page 1)

and of his alma mater, the Uni-
of Chicago ,and is chairman
of the board of a Ford Foundation
subcommittee. Perey also serves as
chairman of the Board of Directors
of the Bell and Howell Company,
where he first assumed a full-time
position in 1941,

OxY

Charles Percy, active young busi-
nessman and promising Republican

politician, is regarded by many as
one of the refreshing new leaders
that may well serve as a rallying
force for the Republican Party in

years to come,

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main St.
Phone HO 3-4121

Keepsake Diamond Rings
Modern repair department

 

 

 

PreoHoSereererooreroes
ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP
OPEN from 8:00-5:30

CEES EEE ESSE SEES OSS
CREEPER EEE ESTE EEEEEE

HICKMAN’S ESSO

on
US. 11 SOUTH

 

‘
4
4
4
4
e
4
4
q
4
4
4

P obo he abe he ade abe oe oop ole oe ode oe ofp oe ale oe ole ale oop

PEELEPEDER DEER EE EDELEDER EL ED EEL EL IEE DATES

Kiver

SLEEPS S SESS SES SES SSE SSS SESS SSE SESE SS FESS SESS ESSE SSE STE SSS T SECC TEE ETS

SPP SSS SSCS ESSESCECETIES TEESE ET
