Saunders, Kline, Reynolds Lead EC Poll

In an unannounced Freshman
Executive Committee preferential
poll taken Tuesday night, the Class
of ’68 indicated that they consider-
ed Steve Saunders, Jody Kline, Joe
Matthews, Ed Armentrout, John
Reynolds, and Richard Nash the men
most qualified to hold elective po-
sition.

Steve Saunders, from Elmont, New
York, drew the highest number of
votes with 34. Second was Jody
Kline from Sault Ste Marie, Mich-
igan, with a total of 23. Close be-
hind Kline with 18 votes was John
Reynolds from Madison, Tennessee.
Fifth in the tally was Ed Armen-
trout from Brownsburg, Virginia,
with 14 votes. Joe Matthews of Mar-
ion, Virginia, collecting 12 votes, is
the only other freshman to receive
10 or more votes.

The poll, conducted by the Ring-
tum Phi, in which 175 freshmen cast
votes, was announced with the print-
ed ballots in the Tuesday Edition.
Ballot boxes were positioned
throughout the Commons and the
poll was taken and completed in a
short time. The purpose of the sec-
recy was to prevent anly group of
freshmen, either through the efforts
of a fraternity to nominate one of
its own pledges, or through a group
of independent freshmen to nomi-

nate an individual who has promised
favortism to them, from uniting and
forming a block vote for reasons
other than personal preference. In
this effort the poll was successful.

Other significant vote-getters in-
clude Barry Levin of Norfolk, with
9 votes; Dave Riley of Richmond,
with 7; Lane Steinger of Creve
Coeur, Missouri, with 6 votes; and 6
votes also to Jady Cady of Mem-
phis. Six received 5 votes while 10
received 4.

The purpose of the preferential poll
was to offer the freshmen a choice in
the selection of their own candidates
for the EC post. The established sys-
tem of the past has depended upon a
clique of upperclassmen who have
determined the candidates of each
party.

Steve Saunders

Steve Saunders who held an 11 vote
lead over the next man, served as
Chief Justice of the Student Court,
President of the Quill and Scroll so-
ciety, co-Editor-In-Chief of the school
newspaper, varsity debater, President
of the Key Club, and Parliamentarian
of the Student Council while in high
school. During this time he also held
the position of governor of the New
York District of the Key Club, and
was a class officer for four years.
Saunders has pledged ZBT. On cam-

 

pus, he is a Ring-tum Phi staff mem-
ber, co-program chairman of the Civ-
il War Round Table, a member of the
Young Republicans and Thrust and
a participant in the Mission Commit-
tee of U.C.A.

Jody Kline

While in high school, Jody Kline
held the positions of homeroom presi-
dent for four years, captain of the
basketball team, president of the Var-
sity Club, and president of both his
senior and junior classes. He partici-
pated in football, basketball, track and
cross-country, becoming  all-Upper
Michigan in basketball. Kline is a
member of the National Honor Society
and a Phi Kappa Sigma pledge.

At W&L, Kline is a member of the
freshman soccer team and plans to
go out for basketball.

John Reynolds

 

'ed as president of his freshman and
| sophomore clases, the student council,
/and the National Honor Society. He
| played varsity football and basketball,
becoming co-captain of the football
team in his senior year. Last year,
he received the Best All-Around
Medal and was the Tennessee dele-
gate to the National Studnt Council
Convention.

Reynolds is an officer in the Sigma

vice-president of his senior class, a
| member of the National Honor Society,
member of the Conservative Society.| and a varsity football and baseball
Richard Nash | player. He also received the Dartmouth

At Louisville, Richard Nash was the! Citizenship Award for outstanding

Chi pledge class and plays on the|
freshman football team. He is also al

4

Drm

 

  
   

|
|

In high school, John Reynolds serv- | |”

| en hwo A
Results of a preferential poll taken by the Ring-tum Phi showed
(1 to r) Jody Kline, Richard Nash, Joe Matthews, Ed
Armentrout and Steve Saunders as the Class of ’68’s to
choices for the EC position. The freshmen election will be held
Monday, October 19.

 

 

citizenship.

Nash is pledge president of the
Betas, and a member of the Dance
Board Advisory Committee. He serves
on the Ring-tum Phi, Calyx, and the
Food Control Committee. Nash also
takes part in Freshman Football.

Joe Matthews

Joe Matthews served as secretary,
vice-president, and president of his
high school student body. He was cap-
tain of the football team, president of
the freshman clas, vice-president of
the varsity club, Citizen of the Year,
and recipient of a school senior service
award.

At W&L, Matthews is on the fresh-
man football team and a member of
the Federation of Christian Athletes.
Matthews has not yet pledged a fra-
ternity.

Edmund Armentrout

Ed Armentrout served as editor-
in-chief of his school paper, chair-
man of the debate team, and chairman
of the dance board. He was also a
member of the National Quill and
and Scroll, his school’s student coun-
cil, and was president of his junior
class.

Here, Armentrout work on the staffs
of the Southern Collegian and Radio
W&L. He is a member of Thrust and
the Debate Team. Armentrout is a
pledge of Lambda Chi Alpha.

 

 

Friday
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Friday
Edition

 

Volume LXV

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 9, 1964

Number 5

 

At San Francisco

 

Burke Tells Young GOP's
Of Barry’s 1964 Strategy

Bill Burke, a freshman law student at W&L, told a group

of over 100 Young Republicans from W&L and Maty Baldwin
College of his experiences as demonstration director for Sena-
tor Barry Goldwater at the Republican National Convention.
Burke spoke before the first meeting of the local Young Re-

publicans Club Wednesday.

The W&L organization supported
a motion to support Goldwater and
and Roy Erickson, Seventh Con-
gressional candidate who is trying
to unseat W&L alumnus John
Marsh, in a short business which
preceded Burke's address.

The group, however, defeated a
proposal to endorse Richard A. May
who is seeking election against Dem-
ocratic Senator Harry F. Byrd.

Dr. Charles Phillips, faculty mem-
ber and president of the Rockbridge
County-Buena Vista Republican
Club, delivered a few remarks in
which he emphasized the necessity

of working together for the remain-|
der of the campaign, and stressed the |

need for intra-party unity.
Burke who headed Goldwater's
campaign in the Washington and Lee

Mock Convention, joined the Ari-|
this!

zona senator's personal staff

summer

Burke served on Goldwater's re-|
Francisco |

search staff at the San
convention. Research, however, was
not the full extent of his duties,
as was brought out during his talk.
Along with Don Shafter, a law stu-
dent at the University of Michigan,
Burke was in charge of the Gold-
water demonstrations at the con-
vention. Many of the colorful dem-
onstration ideas were Burke's
handicraft. This included the mil-
lion pieces of gold foil dropped from
the rafters when Goldwater was
nominated

Particular attention was called
to the organization of Goldwater
forces. Burke said that delegate or-
ganization was started four years
ago, and continued to the last min-
ute before balloting began

“You've heard that the convention

was managed; that it was Gold-
water's convention!” said Burke
“Well, that’s true. We knew where

every delegate was every minute for
two weeks.”

By means of huge banks of com-
nunications paraphanalia—ineluding
valkie-talkies, and full-wired phone
given delegate

connec Lons-any

eould be located and contacted with-|

in five minutes from one of three dil-

ferent communication sources

Other electronic gadgets utilized
by the Senator's workers included
computers which could feed back
within fifteen minutes whatever
senator Goldwater had said on any
ibject. Thirty thousand pages of)
nateri al was rit rofilmed ior the |
convention, Burke reve sled that a}

nilar set-up with 20,000 pages of)

tatements, speeches, and writ

 

ing of President Johnson had been
indexed for the regular campaign.
In order to safeguard these and other
campaign devices, heavy
precautions were taken, including
special guards at every entrance and
exit of the Goldwater headquarters,
which covered two floors of
Mark Hopkins Hotel.

“A great deal of Senator Gold-
| water’s efforts have been aimed at
youth,” Burke noted, “because he
realized that this year their would
be 1.25 million college people vot-
ing for the first time.” Over 1,000
young people worked for Goldwater
at the convention. Burke said that
without the assistance of these young
| people, “ our task would have
been just about impossible.”

Burke found the Republican Pres-
idential candidate to be “very
| friendly,” and “personally very
tractive

Goldwater's friendliness was man-
ifested many ways, according to
Burke. “He took time to remember
the names of staff members, and al-
ways had a good word for every-
| body.”

The convention ran like clock-
work, with no slip-ups, Burke said
He compared the San Francisco con-

;
ai-

|

i
|

 

vention to the W&L Mock con-
vention
“As for the demonstration, they

| got the same one that we presented
lat the mock convenion—only big-
| ger.”

| Burke said approximately ten
| other Washington and Lee students
were at the convention

Service Society
Selects Eleven

For Membership

The ranks of the Student Service

| Seciety have been swelled by the re-|
| vent election of eleven new members. |

| Six juniors and five sophomores were
elected at a meeting held in the Stu-
dent Union on Tuesday evening, Oc-
tober 6. This final meeting
was the culmination of an intensive
series of interviews of all applicants

election

New members are as follows: Randy
Chitwood, SAE sophomore; Stuart
Finestone, ZBT sophomore; Pete Hen-

dricks, Beta junior; Bill Jeflreas, DTD
sophomore; Neil King SAE opho
more: Mike Lawrence, Phi Delt jun
Joe Miller, DTD junior; Chark

(Continued on page 4)

wr;

security |

the |

 

 

Lyndon Baines Johnson

The Friday Edition’s

Brownley Presents DMS Awards
To Nine Outstanding Seniors

By TIM VANDEVER
Cadet Information Officer
Colonel! R. H. Brownley present-
ed Distinguished Military Student
awards to nine outstanding senior
this week. The D.MS. award
is presented for superlative achieve-

ROTC and

cadets

ment im the program

 

recipients are selected for the award

by the Professor of Military Science

ubjeet to the approval of the Uni-
versity President

ADMS required to be in both

the tep third of his RO.T.C. class

land the top fifth of his academic

class. No more than filteen per cent

of the senior cadets in any one year
the
nine recipients were se-
of approximately
basis of their
during the

achieve -

can receive aw ard

This year
lected from a class

ixty cadet on the

work in the program
and thei

ummer camp. They are

Rasin, Phi Kappa Sigma,
town Maryland Capt

first three years

neni

Alex

from Chests

;in

Dance Board Names
Three New Members

By JIMMY KIERSKY

In a general reorganization, the W&L Dance Board has

established three new positions and appointed men to fill them.
The first new post is Publicity Committee, headed by Tom
Robinson. Robinson will be in charge of publicizing the four
Dance Sets. Control of behavior at dances will be the respon-

 

 

Company

Commander

Larry Meeks, SPE. from Thoma

rathe
i

EC Approves
Wheeler’s Plan

For Control

At last Tuesday's Executive Com-
mittee meeting, President Jim Kulp
called on Joe Wheeler, Chairman of
the Student Control Committee, to
present to th E.C. the policy his com-
| mittee intends to follow this year.
The plan will be the same as last)
year’s except that the Student Control
Committee will urge the girl schools’
judiciary committees to weed out the
impertinent complaints so as reduce
the volume of unnecessary work ior
the Student Control Committee. The |
E.C. accepted Wheeler's plan for his |
committee.

 

 

Next, Jim DeYoung was called upon |
to give the budget of the Student Fin-
ance Committee. DeYoung said that
the budget would have to be higher
this year because many student-spon-
sored organizations ran in the red last
year, Therefore, the activities fee, said |
De Young, was raised to two dollars
this year to compensate for a possible
deficite. The extra money was di-
vided up among the organizations ac-
cording to their needs.

The Finance Committee also de-
cided to give part of the extra in-
come to the Student Bar Association
because it was felt that the under-
graduates are in a better financial po-
sition to assume a little more of the
financial burden than the law stu-
dents, most of whom are married, The

E.C. also adopted the finance program

Finally, a letter from the Associated
Student Governments of the United
States was read by Kulp. It requested
that Washington and Lee send a repre-
sentative to its national meeting on
November 26-29. There was some de-

Choice for President

ton, Georgia, Capt
mander;

Douglas Kopp, from Madison, New
Jersey, Lt. Col. Battalion Command-
er;

Rick Carrell, SAE, from Pensaco-
la, Florida, Major—Battalion Execu-
tive Officer

John

mouth

Company Com-

 

Ports-
8-3

Yeary, SPE,
Ohio, Major
(Operations Officer);
Dan Friedman, ZT,
mond, Virginia, Captain
S-4 (Supply Officer);

Tim Vanderver, Sigma Chi, from

from
Battalion

bate as to whether or not to comply)
from Rich- with the letter’s request. Consequent-
Battalion| ly, Jim Kuip appointed Dave
as chairman of an investigating com-

Bryant Ken

Geer |

mittee composed of Geet

Birmingham, Alabama, First Lieu- drick, and Jerry Turner

tenant—Battalion S-1 and Public In closing the session, Jim Kulp

Information Officer; said that the freshman E.C. represen-
Henry Quekemeyer, Delta Tou tative from the law and undergrad

uate schools would be elected on Oc

Delta, from Roanoke, Virginia, Cap-
19. Time, place and conditions

Battalion 8-3; and

tain tober

would be decided in the next session

 

Gus Dubus, from Savannah,
Georgia, Captain—Company Com-| Further information on the E.C
mandet | elections will appear in next Friday's |
A Distinguished Military Student Ring -tum Phi.
has a especial perrogative He can| The next on will be covered |
upply for a regular army commission) by a reporter from the Friday Edi-|
than & reserve cormission tien

@ sibility of the new Floor Committee,

whose chairman is Larkin Fowler.
The Floor Committee will also as-
sume such odd jobs as taking up
tickets.

Jack Baber will be the Dance
Board Coordinator. The principal
function of the Coordinator is to act
as a liaison between the Dance
Board and the individual dance
set presidents. Jobs such as main-
taining rest rooms, tuning the piano,
and replacing spotlights are also
duties of the Coordinator.

Dance Board President Steve Hib-
bard feels that the creation of these
new posts will distribute the work
and responsibilities more evenly
among Board members. Chairmen
for all of the Dance Board Com-
mittees are selected yearly through
applications and interviews.

Within the next week the Board

| will canvass every fraternity in an

attempt to sell Dance Plans. “The
Dance Plan,” remarks Steve Hib-
bard, will be a great saving not only
for its owner, but also for any off
campus guest he may have.” The
sale of these Dance Plans stops
Wednesday, October 12.

The Dance Board has some pro-
posals which must be kept secret;
however, Steve has let it be known
that the Board is working on several
petitions to “liven spirits” at these
dance sets. The first petition was
to make Openings Dance informal
by making suits the acceptable dress
instead of tuxedos.

(Continued on page 4)

Debaters Open °64 Season

At Rosemont Tournament

Washington and Lee's varsity de-
bate team will encounter its first inter-
collegiate competition of the year at
the Rosemont College Tournament,
outside Philadelphia, on October 24
and 25

Preliminary competition for the

| meet will be held for all novice debat-
iers Monday

i time, the debate squad will begin its

This year, for the first

season by entering a novice team at a
varsity tournament, William
Chaffin said

coach

Debaters will also participate in sev-
eral exhibitions on Parents’ Weekend,
October 30 and 31, in preparation for
the Tau Kappa Alpha-Delta Epsilon
Rho tournament held early in
November

to be

The remaining first semester eched-
ule includes tournaments at George-
town Pittaburah Univer-
sity and New York University

University
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

A Positive Endorsement Of Lyndon B. Johnson

President Lyndon Baines Johnson receives the full en-
dorsement of the Friday edition of the Ring-tum Phi as the
most qualified candidate for the office of President of these
United States. That both the Tuesday and Friday staffs of the
paper agree on this is unusual, nevertheless, it goes beyond
that in its implications.

The Friday Ring-tum Phi deplores the current nega-
tive trend in the voters’ attitude; it seems that one only votes
against a candidate, not for his opponent. In their editorial
endorsement,we feel that the Tuesday Edition shares this nega-
tive attitude; they would support Johnson against Goldwater,
not so much on the merits of Johnson’s ability and personality,
as because they are opposed to Goldwater’s way of thinking.
Certainly this is a factor in the present campaign; however,
the completely negative theme of this campaign causes us to
react positively. Let’s examine the reasons why President John-
son should be re-elected, instead of the reasons why Senator
Goldwater should not.

Accomplishments

During the last four years, the Kennedy-Johnson Adminis-
tration has made outstanding progress in quite a number of
fields:

% Economic growth has proceeded at a rapid pace, stim-
ulated by a prudent cut in federal taxes.

According to the U.S, News and World Report (September
7, 1964):

“The four Kennedy Johnson years have been
marked by a steady rise in the rate of over--all business
activity, measured in terms of ‘gross product.’

“There has been no business setback in the last four
years.”

“President Johnson has stopped a rise in federal
spending, an accomplishment that both Eisenhower and
Kennedy failed to achieve.”

% The right of every American to equal opportunity,
equal citizenship and equal access to all facilities open to the
public has been unequivocally affirmed by law.

The protection of the federal minimum wage has been
extended to millions of workers previously excluded and the
minimum itself has been increased.

% “Aprogram has been established to extend federal as-
sistance to economically depressed areas.

% Federal aid to higher education has been materially

increased.
% The most comprehensive housing program in a gen-

neni

 

eration has been enacted.

    

Letters
To The
Editor...

 

 

Lee On Harrington

Stalnaker Defends Hazing Box 436
, Lexington, Va. |
Dear Editor: 2 October, 1946 |

Dear Sir;

This has been a good week for)
Tracy Harrington. First I find his|
name affixed to a document which
I received in the mail, asking me to/
pledge funds to a church that I)
don’t belong to. Then, on Friday,'
I find his name attached to an even

From a column in last Tuesday's
R-t P and an editorial in Friday's
paper concerning rallies and fresh-
men’s rights, one can almost picture
a pledge class marching under their
banner of freedom out to their house
and triumphanting as the guilty sin-
ridden bodies of the actives fall

— before pledges’ virtuous more ridiculous piece of verbiage
— f telling freshmen to come sit at Big
These two columnists demand

|} to nail fraternities,

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

% Poverty is no longer ignored but recognized as a
chronic blight on America’s affluent society and steps have
been initiated to attack its roots.

% The military strength of the United States has been
enhanced and made more versatile; while at the same time this
country has gained, in every crisis, a new respect from friend
and foe alike.

Domestic Economic Policy

Johnson recognizes the importance of solving the problem
of unemployment and achieving full employment in Ameti-
ca as a matter of the highest priority. The Democratic plat-
form commits its candidate to a program of steady economic
advancement; to the goal of putting all Americans, who want
and can fill a job, back to work.

Johnson’s platform proposes a higher minimum wage, and
takes sound and progressive positions on housing, hospital
insurance for the aged, social security improvements, and many
other necessary domestic policies.

Foreign Policy and National Defense
The Democratic Administration in the last four years has
built a military flexibility that enables this country to refrain
from atomic war; brush-fire wars cannot be fought with an
atomic bomb, On the other hand, the Republican Party has
already alarmed our allies, through their major reliance on

 

America’s atomic superiority. The awesome weapon of atomic
supremacy can only be entrusted to the President of the United |
States.
Qualifications

An examination of the experience of President Johnson
is in order when considering his qualifications for office. Lyn-
don Johnson has been President of the United States for
nearly eleven months, was vice-President for the preceding
three years, was a senator for two six-year terms—serving for
six years as majority leader—and for eleven years sat in the
House of Representatives. He took office in 1937 and has
served continually since then.

As Vice-President, he loyally, diligently, and effectively
served President John F. Kennedy. In both foreign and do-
domestic affairs, he was a strong right hand to the President.

He assumed the office of President with unsurpassed vigor
in November of 1963. The legislative achievements of Presi-
dent Johnson’s nearly eleven months in office are the greatest
since the Roosevelt Administration. The unflagging concern
of Lyndon B. Johnson for the poor and deprived has in
truth aroused the conscience of all Americans.

In Mr. Johnson we are offered a man of vast experience
and manifest competence. In the Senate he proved himself one
of the ablest legislative leaders of the age. As President, he
has moved with sureness and responsibility through almost a
year of crises—not least of the these the crisis of assassination
and succession.

In the White House, Johnson has shown himself to be a
master legislative strategist. Never since the New Deal, has such
a large percentage (80 percent) of an administration’s pro-
gram been accepted by the Congress. Johnson is very much a
politician. The office demands a politican; we need a man
who understands power and the relationship of power as a
necessity for getting his program through. Kennedy was a
poor politican in legislative administration; only in Johnson’s
tenure of office has the Congressional stalemate been resolved.

Moreover, Lyndon Johnson’s greatest talent is the one
needed now as seldom before in our history: that of reconcil-
ing the seemingly irreconcilable, and pulling opposites into a
consensus. In a nation torn by racial and sectional strife, its di-
visions widened by the ugly passions stirred up (on both sides)
by the Goldwater candidacy, the nation needs a President who
can bind up its wounds and let it find unity again.

Johnson has repeatedly voiced an appeal to national unity.

‘This is not merely a campaign appeal; he has expressed his

deep regret at sectional factionism throughout his administra-
tion. His appeal to national unity is an appeal to unity with
purpose—an attempt to solve mutual problems. To find a
man with a greater healing influence, a man better qualified
to unite the nation, one would have to look far. Not only
would he unite the North and the South, but also the Liberals
and Conservatives, and the Executive and Legislative branches
of government.

These then are the reasons why Lyndon Baines Johnson
receives our positive endorsement for the presidency of the
United States. These are the reasons that persuaded us that
the editors of The New York Herald Tribune are correct when
they say,

“So far as these two candidates are concerned, our
inescapable choice is Lyndon B. Johnson.”

 

Week’s Mail Brings In Letters
On Hazing And Assorted Topics

Brother Tracy’s feet and learn how | School Spirit
launching an|
intellectual attack on Burke and) Dear Editor:
Goldwater, and completely destroy-) 5), jact Tuesday's Ring-tum Phi an
ing Washington and Lee administra~| a ticle by Tom Carpenter brought
tors with his devastating satire. to light a well known but little
In light of such a good start, 1 discussed problem. Here at Wé&L,
sae — a this oe pe with all its fraternity spirit and
r, Harrington come out with &) athletic participation, there is a def-
stand on Motherhood, God, and! inite lack of school spirit. Even as a
Country (try Phillip Wylie for ref-| freshman, one month after my first
erences, Tracy). lecture, I can see what Mr. Carpen-
Enthusiastically yours, | ter is talking about. How many have
ROBERT S. LEE, Ill, '65| attended the freshman football games

October 2, 1964) (Continued on page 4)

 

 

there be a re-ordering of fraternity
pledge programs on the statement
that “rallies and games” have no
meaning and work details could re-
place them.

To begin with, there are already
work details in most houses and they
do not give the results that rallies do.
Rallies have a real psychological
value in that they do tend to unite!
the pledges by giving them an ex-
perience where their total unification |
is necessary—not during the rally, |
but after, when they raid the house
and kidnap the pledge trainer.

Nor is anyone hurt—for rallies)
are really no worse than any good!
workout on one of the W&L'
athletic teams. Also they are usually |
given in punishment for neglect on
the part of the pledges in their
duties

 

But the main objection should be
the idea of any group of pledges)
strolling out to the house and tell-/
ing the brothers how to run it. A

fraternity is not a club with imme-
diate rights and privileges—that is
what the pledge program is for—to
be a period of probation and train-

ing
Too, if a pledge class should pro-
duce such an ultimatum to a house,
the brothers would tell (in theRt-¢
P's words) the pledges to take it in
“the appropriate aperture” right out
the door. It seems extremely doubt-
ful that the total class would sacri-|
fice their brotherhood in the house
at this point. And many good houses
had extremely small pledge classes
last year and were not harmed in
any way either then or now |
No, it seems doubtful that rallies
should go or will go the way of the |
beanie and other traditions at Wal
Signed i

JIM STALNAKER |

  
 
  
 
  

Deferred Rush

 

\
\
\

es
_-

ona a8 243 g
Got S MINUTES perAe TE
7,

aay STARTS “J

 

     

State’s of the Iguana”

Filled With Symbolic M eaning

 

 

 

 

 

By JAMES JENNINGS | drink and sex; Ava Gardner, as
Maxine, uses two beach boys; Sue
Lyon, as Charlotte, uses anybody;
and Deborah Kerr, as Miss Jelkes,
uses deep breaths and platonic love.

The Iguana is an ugly lizard hunt-
ed by the natives that is alleged
to taste like chicken. It is caught,
tied up, and allowed to get fat.
Shannon is an Iguana. Outwardly
he is a vile man, tied to physical de-
sire and destined to waste away.
However, he is actually good under-

Cinema Columnist

According to the Reverend T. Law-
rence Shannon, man is “packed,
stacked, and canned.” Man is in-
humane to God because of what he
has done to nature and to man.
Modern man sees
God as cruel and
bitter, while
Shannon sees God|
as loving and!
kind. Shannon)
wants to atone for
the sins of man}
but feels that)
since he cannot
control himself he
cannot guide|
others to the!
Jennings “Spirit of Truth.” |
Night of the Iguana deals with)
three women and a defrocked priest, |
who are all plagued by a spook.)
The spook is isolation which is
brought by the sins of man or, ac-|
cording to Nonno, “the plummeting
to earth.” Each of the four charac-
ters concerned tries to fight the!
spook and thereby free himself.!
Richard Burton, as Shannon, uses

jand with

| neath. He defends Miss Fellows and

keeps her from being destroyed. He
would have nothing destroyed and,
for this reason, according to Miss
Jelkes, he is a good human being.

Miss Jelkes is the key that sets
Shannon free. She compares him
to Christ, only she says he is seek-
ing a much too comfortable cruci-
fixion. She calms Shannon down and
unties him, playing God in setting
him free. He in turn asserts his
freedom by setting the Iguana free.
God plays God and sets Nonno free,
Nonno'’s freedom comes
Miss Jelkes’ freedom. Shannon then
takes Maxine from the beach boys,

(Continued on page 4)

Harrington Questions Fraternity
Association Of One’s Own Ideas

By TRACY HARRINGTON |
The Liberty Party had a clique
meeting the other night, and in it
there was a fine
example of the
W&L mentality
The meeting
was held to dis-
cuss the proposal
put forth in the
Tuesday Ring-tum
Phi—of open pri-
maries for Fresh-
man EC elections
Early in the dis-

Harrington

cussion, the clique

member from one
house apologized to the entire group
for having Steve Smith as a frater-
mity brother. (Smith, as Tuesday
Editor, was partly responsible for
the open primary idea.) “He's in
our house,” the clique representa-
tive is reported to have said, “but
we don't share his views

This self-styled politico went on

that the PiIKA house
had the same trouble aa)

to comment
probably

his house,
there.”

Now, neither Smith nor I resent
the individual responsible for the
comments just quoted. We do, how-
ever, lament the fact that such re-
marks ever had to be made in the
firat place

“with Harrington over

What a pity it is that one’s opin-
ions are identified not with him, but
with an entire fraternity

It is assumed at Washington and
Lee that those students who share
the sare two or three Greek letters
alter their names must necessarily
share the same views as well When
such is not the pase, there is uni-
versal consternation. No one knows
quite what to do when a PiKA acts
unlike a PIKA, when a Sigma Nu
says something that Sigma Nu's
aren't supposed to say

How glad I am that Washington
and Lee, as a highly conservative
school, adheres «o well to that
grandest of all grand conservative
ideals: individual freedom of ex-

pression

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Booters Whip Abbey3 ss
Record Now At 4-0 |

Forwards Tim Henry and John Van Bork rang up two
goals apiece Thursday as they led Washington and Lee’s un-
beaten soccer team to a 5-1 victory over outclassed Belmont

Abbey.

W&L controlled the ball from the start of the contest, but

the Generals’ advantage did not register on the scoreboard un-
til 15:30 of the first quarter when*——

Henry drove the ball in from ten
feet out. A Wes Horner goal was
nullified by an offside penalty early
in the second period, but the W&L
booters continued to dominate play
and to rain shots on the Crusader’s
fine goalie, Paul Poschman.

Van Bork took a pass from Henry
with six minutes left in the half

 

 

I-M Week a

Beta, Phi Delt |
In Tennis, Golf

By JOHN BEAGLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Generals Open
CAC Season
At Centre

By JOHNNY GRAHAM

Fresh from their 21-0 win over
Oberlin last Saturday the Washing-
ton and Lee football team meets
Centre College tomorrow in its first
College Athletic Conference con-
test of the season.

The Centre game, to be played in
Danville, Kentucky, could be the
key to the rest of the season. A
win would put the Generals in good
shape in the CAC race. Three con-
ference games—against Sewanee,
Southwestern, and Washington—fin-
ish the season. A win tomorrow
could, conceivably, provide the mo-
mentum necessary to upset Sus-
quehanna the following week.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d tipped the ball in for the second ‘ ‘ :
Gena score. Then in the closing With golf and tennis coming to a The Generals will be at full
second of the half, Henry was grant- close, the most likely league champs strength for tomorrow’s game. The
ed a direct kick. His first attempt have emerged. Centre Colonials are winless in
was blocked by Poschman; but the| In tennis, Beta looks like a repeat three starts this season, They opened
shot was called back by the officials,| Winner in League A again for this their schedule with a 0-0 tie with
and on his second attempt the All-| year. The Betas also look like the a Sac AS le _| Wilmington before dropping 21-6
State forward connected for the third oa > _ - the _ —— ‘ ms 28-7 —m . Maryville and
L nds i Kappa Sig and SAE A h D d rival Southwestern.
oThe Generals started off fast in tied for the lead with their deciding an é vomses LY V1S€S nt ony, avi Coach Lee McLaughlin thinks the
the second half, as Van Bork angled oe to a played ne ' be Generals may have to step up the
i th ts with just 2:44 gone,| match Is ra as 8 up wi Pp S team’s aerial attack in order to fare
The final Washington and Leo score| Phi Kappa Sig having good depth, A 5 He aAkeSs ( ave H CLM ace Otats well against the Colonials. Although
came six minutes later on a Horner - = having a strong team at After the first two games of the, Centre has managed only one tie in
penalty kick. © Op. ; aoe _| season, General co-captains Bill | its first three games, McLaughlin
The North Carolinians got on the In league C, Phi Delt appears to} | By GUY UNANGST 3 Prgms age oe a David and John Anthony pace team| thinks that they could give Wash-
scoreboard at last near the end of| be the winner, although they have I've got to do more selling than | build the WéeL ie a to aia his tatistics for W&L. Anthony remains| ington and Lee its roughest test of
the third quarter on a direct kick| yet to play a tough PEP team. In coaching this year,” said basketball ead ab Gonuaten tick Gchesl tn the team’s top ground gainer while| the still-young season.
by Mike McDonough. The final} League D, KA still looks like the — a a a wa | dlenendote. . — David continues as quarterback} Tomorrow’s game will mark the
quarter of the game saw plenty of team to beat. iG — to Washington an ee’s ath | i cia eves ies x Ss Larry Craig’s number one reciever.| sixteenth renewal of the series co
action but no further scoring, as} Phi Delt looks like it’s going to be ate department. the team had won four games in two ae : tween Centre and Washington and
W&L coach Joe Lyles experimented] an easy winner of its league in golf} He has the gimmicks—pep band, years. In six seasene his teams never Individual Passing Lee. Although Centre holds a 9-6
freely with his second-stringers. again this year and seems to be a| basketball blazer, basketball queen— od os losing season, and twice, in| |e Att. Comp. Yds.TD| edge in the overall series, they
Lyles Praises Squad good bet to retain the championships and the yee am fest~beonking ren 1962 and 1963, had the second best | CUAIB  -----::s-sssssem 30 15 183 1 |haven’t beaten the Genrals since
After the game, Coach Lyles at they won last year. The Phi Delts ga offense and “goulash” de- won-lost percentage in the state RE sence [a 0 0 O | 1958.
er the - , : :
, = top four men of Billy Days, Dave | ‘emse. “ ; Sei ‘ Ne cein 1 0 0 0 Statistic-wise, the Generals made
tributed the victory, the fourth Sader Dave Greer a es Bear| W&L basketball teams have won — ae Se ee cone n impressive showing in their vic-
f he Ge ls, to his : ° eile A : their noses at basketball players, Individual Receivi a Pp wing
a cer Queene, oxperionse all shoot regular games of under 40 z —o me a. ave yo sa Canfield said. “Our main goal is to PI oo - tory over Oberlin last Saturday.
> ; on the par 36 course. they droppe ‘Va, and Sout “a ayer Caught Yds. TD |They had a total offense of 304
and conditioning. He singled out as In ce B Sigma Chi looks like Conference opposition. Although it| the 2 thell com” wwe NOE eee cna 11 148 1 soni, 249 on the ground and 55
cutstenting in addition to Genry and the probable winner and will prob-|™2Y be hard to improve the record ootaeeenoetalaatenes am | Baer sccsssesseenn 3 30 0 | passing, while holding the Yeomen
Van Bork, halfbacks Bruce Jackson a ts top challengers to the Phi this year, things are going to be! Se 1 5 0 |to a net of 88, 78 rushing. The Gen-
and Fred Skinner and fullbacks) 7 its. The ZBT’s and SPE’s are still|@ lot more fun. Gameien Mesting Get erals led in first downs, 17 to 7.
Dave Redmond, Pete Preston and fighting it out in League e while | “It’s got to be fun. We might as With basketball practice to begin Individual Punting Three players joined in the touch-
Howie Busse. Coach Lyles express~ another tough battle is shaping up| well hang it up if it isn’t,” Canfield) October 19, coach Verne Canfield Player Punts Yds Avg.'down parade, and two more chip-
ed dissatisfaction, however, with the said. “I think the student body will| wot oe : . : F
lay of hi bstitutes, all of whom| in League D between Sigma Nu and has announced a team meeting at/ Barclay. ................ 7 238 38.0| ped in conversions. Co-captains Bill
a . s§ substitu aa lish to| Delt. | see a few things it hasn't seen be-| 7 pm. October 15. Freshmen inter- un 1 29 29.0| David, John Anthony, the team’s
Le esas el Gal Standings | acing an eihti-ien| neu or them “act Rushing [it ground ann and sono
: , e is organizing an e@i -lo-ten | will eet rn f »sh h J Indi i Ru ing f ll T Ss arks scored
said. +t League A | piece Dixieland band, canvassing} leas Sine. ee -" ™ Player Runs Gain Avs pag ee a hy 7
Looking a : + —s pe : , FR RTE ceeencrreremnsnneneemesennnce : q alumni to buy team blazers, for) ‘Canfield also said that any stu- Anthony 24 119 +49 | David scored first on a four yard
—_ oF oe not vie ja TN ceeaiel 8 which he is designing a special em-| gents interesed in playing in a| Brookby 12 59 49 | pass frm Larry Craig. Cary Green
ae ' oo — . - . SAE ein aa blem, and planning a meeting with) pixieland pep band, which would| Chase 19 51 27 | booted the point after. Sparks scor-
was »aten nesday, ee pw owreg presidents to discuss a play at home games, should see him| Crenshaw 8 36 45 |ed on a nine yard run and Anthony
Lynchburg, another traditional pow- Saturday afternoon game and pos-| as soon as neniiie, mien : . Es | closed cane iaeen aeneame aad ie
erhouse —— — victim of the Sigma Chi 3 0 sible selection of a basketball queen. acannon David 8 21 34 |final touchdown. Skip C! tallied
rampaging Genera is year. Kappa Si 2-1; Twenty-five games have been . : 5, ith cranains esnuestien tthe
He said that he had not expected — bes - — s-4| scheduled for next yeer, and this Continue Golf Tryouts Sparks &§ @ 0 ae same fin
U.Va. to be as good this year as Phi Kappa Sig 1-2| includes a holiday journey into lr 0 © 7 14) Fullback Anthony leads the team
last, but pointed out that they PEP 0-3| North and South Carolina and Flori- Head golf coach E. P. Twombly Oberlin © © © © |in rushing with 119 yards in 24 car-
le d well against Roanoke earlier. Ce eee e ee eeeeeEeee EOE N OE OEEEEEEED EEEEEEEEEEEEEEOESOEEEEES d today reminded freshmen interested seeeeeeeteeaseeeneesenes " shin: y
= a ’ j 7 ries for a 5.0 average. Harry Brook-
“J think they'll be up for their game League C | What about the team itself?| in trying out for the golf team that) way, Oberlin | jy has carried 12 times for 59 yards
with us,” Lyles said, “but so will SE TE cassncecensssessrseteenettnnteeesenessnsseenienl 3-0. “We'll give the school a basketball qualifying rounds will continue on . y
and I look for a real good game on 2-0) team it can be very, very proud of,”| Monday and Tuesday of next week. uw Fir, Downs 7) and a 5.0 average also. Through the
both sides.” 1- -1| he said. Twombly said that candidates for A an Rushing a a ¢ = = ag 7 pao tee
Next game for the unbeaten Gen- es) Team members are already un-| the golf team must complete two 55 ae ne 10 ame Bill David is the : is
erals is next Friday on the home 0-3) dergoing a weight and isometrics qualifying rounds of 18 holes each. 204 Total a 88 por eed witha 11 entches fer 148 9
field against VPI. Time of the contest League D | program, and running in preparation He said there would be room for - Seehies tent {foam by beg _
is set for 3: 15. a ie cae 2.0| for Canfield’s style of play. four new players on this year’s var- 55 Awe is penalized 30! 30 yards. bbed three
ee wii ee ae Ve oe See - Qualif 4 oo totals ae examen
aneenennaa 1-1 double-team, take chances. The de- ying rounds were also he ——
Matmen Meet [2 ——————— O-2|fense, dubbed goulash,” is a| ast week on Monday and Tues-|[~ p70 a co gs TOWN INN
35 and 40 d ' TG DE ccccntsnintitnimiaimaeinine 0-2| “switching man-to-man with zone| day. atic and Sh ABC 5392 on and off
Between an students at- principles.” _ . - —
tended the — — of the Tennis Standings |” “I feel this school can win without NOTICE Watch and Jewelery Repair Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Washington an wrestling team, | scholarships,” Canfield said, sound-| The Ring-tum Phi sports page|| Hand Engarving and Class Rings Seafood
according to coach Richard Miller. Bet cengee 9.0| ing vaguely like football coach Lee| announces its unqualified support HO 3-2022 oe ~*~ — he
oe _ held Tuesday night ean vee —""o-1 | McLaughlin did a few years ago. of the Stfl Louis Cardinals. .
at Doremus Gym. —  aaaeaemeiaiaiil we
Miller said prospects for the com- a wile “3 FEES EEEEFEFFGF4F4544555554O5654O4O454 44544000504
ing year look good, with the team Sigma Chi vers uo
losing only one letterman, Herbie League B E . P
Smith who graduated last year. Phi Kappa Sig 3-0) vimdai )
Miller gave a tentatively starting SAE = 3.01
lineup for the team. At 123 pounds,| pix» 1-2 | Freshmen: The candidates running in this primary were nomi-
vovarning lettermen Butch West; Si signs iu 0-2} inated by you in the preferential balloting earlier this week.
130 pounds, Dick Music; 137 pounds PiP 0-3 ol h h
Kemble White; 147 pounds, Tom Of the six men listed on this ballot it is t itors’ hope that
Stover; 187 pounds, Peter Winfield;| | League C ae at least several will be finally nominated by you for the Execu-
i De -0) ; ,
and 371 sounds, Warven Stuest PEP 2-1] tive Committee in a week and a half.
Miller said he had not yet decided eT i? :
who would start at 167 pounds or at| ZBT 2-1) Vote for two men on this list, or vote for one and write

heavyweight.
PEEEESEEEEESSESESEESESESEEOS

ROBERT E, LEE
BARBERSHOP

(Continued on page 4)
Ceeeeeeeecesereeeeeeeeees

LEXINGTON

in a candidate. Place the ballot
from the Commons. The resul

Ring-tum Phi.

in one of the boxes at the exits
ts will be published in the next

The end result of the primary will be that no matter who

wins it, your class will have shown its voice in support of several
freshmen, who will have been given a chance to run for EC
without depending on being selected by the Big Clique and
groomed for stardom.

HARDWARE

OPEN from 8:00-5:30

 

PESEEEEEESSSESESETESESS

Zeooe

percaeent
K Youre Frdtive Prone rv»

3% MARINE OFFICER

A college undergraduate who meets the requirements moy enroll

in the Morine Pleteon Leoders Clos. Complete college—choose

VOTE FOR TWO BY CIRCLING THEIR NAMES:

1. Steve Saunders 4. Ed Armentrout

’. Jody Kline 5. Richard Nash

at

. Joe Matthews 6. John Reynolds

*

 

Merine clr or ground troining—be eligible for @ commission
in the Merine Corps Reserve.

Contact: U.S. Marine Corps
Officer Selection Officer if

On Campus Seon GY

The Marine Corps Builds Leaders

 
 
   
 

WRITE-IN CANDIDATE:

7 College Cown
Shop

:
4

FESS EESESSSEE SE SESSES ESE SES ESOS EE EES TEESE EE EESE

 

 

 
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Letters To The Editor

(Continued from page 2)
or varsity soccer games? I don’t
think it takes long to prove to any
open mind that school spirit lacks.

I believe the time has come to
stop talking and to start doing. What
can the student body do to add that
spark of spirit that makes college
really great? Maybe the formation
of a spirit committee would be a
start. Such a group with the active
support of the fraternities and the
administration could act as a cen-
tral agency for the promotion of
spirit. How? With a cross section of
the student body represented such
an organization could begin promo-
tional campaigns, better advertising
of sparsley attended events (which
events aren’t sparsely attended) and
maybe the formation of a cheering
section as suggested in Mr. Carpen-
ter’s column.

I feel that the need for such a
plan is quite evident, only one ques-
tion remains. Is the student body
of W&L ready to lend it’s support
to improve the University through
a spirit committee?

Sincerely,
DICK CAPLAN

Ring-tum Phi Jargon
Dear Sir:

Has the English language or the
teaching of it deteriorated since my
W&L days?

I refer you, Sir, to your front-
page headline, “Left-Wingers Up-
hold Cause in Thrust.” In my days,
before The Great Conflict, clarity of
thought was expressed through pre-
cision of language. Precisely, what
does “Left-Winger” mean in Ring-
tum Phi jargon?

Does it mean, simply, Pro-LBJ—
grouping together Left-Winger Wal-
ter Reuther, Left-Winger William
Randolph Hearst, Jr., Left-Winger
Governor Harrison of Virginia, Left-
Winger Governor Sanders of Geor-
gia, ete.?

Does it mean Right of Javits, but
Left of Eisenhower?

Does it mean Right of Eisenhower,
but Left of McKinley?

Does it mean Right of McKinley,
but Left of Goldwater?

Perhaps, this last is what you
really mean, in which case your
headline should have read “Whigs
Unite To Counter Tories.”

Very truly yours,
SYDNEY LEWIS, SR.
Doddering Class ‘40
Law °43

Italian Appreciation
Dear Editor:

Here is Giancarlo Marchetti, writ-
ing from Rome, Italy. Last year I
had a chance to attend Washington
and Lee University as a sophomore.

Now your academic year has just
started, while over here we
one more month of vacation.

I want to thank every person of
the Institution through the “voice”

of W&L, since I did not have al

chance to do it personally.

I am just now appreciating what
an experience I had by living in
the US.A.; the experience has been
extremely postive, and the greater
part of my vision has ben shaped
through people, friends, professors I
met in Lexington. All the professors
and students have been understand-
ing and good to me; I have found

PD ake e

SUN. THROUGH WED.

 

 

A TITANUG-METRO Fim

 

 

some of my best friends at W&L. It
is pretty hard to reajust to the in-
dividuality and complete _ self-
reliance of the Italian Educational
system, after being followed all the
year around by professors who con-
sider you as a friend more than as
a simple student. I wish I could see
all of you sometime.

By the way, if anyone of you
happens to be in Rome, please let
me know and call me; last summer I
did not see anyone of you but should
really like it. Incidentally I met only
a girl from Randolph-Macon College.

Arrivederci a tutti,
GIANCARLO MARCHETTI

George Homans To Speak
On History of Sociology

As part of the Visiting Scholars Pro-
gram organized by the University
Center of Virginia, Washington and
Lee has been selected as a lecture stop
for Dr. George C. Homans, Professor
of Sociology at Harvard.

 

 

This internationally renowned teach-
er and lecturer will speak on “History |
and Sociology” in a talk, Tuesday eve-_
ning, October 13, at 8:00 in the du-|
Pont Hall auditorium. His lecture will |
be open to all interested persons of the |
W&L community.

Dr. Homans is comparatively unique
among modern sociologists in that he
first entered his career as a social
historian and only then moved on into
sociology. His lecture Tuesday night
will inter-relate these two fields and
show how they have affected the de-
velopment of modern history.

 

Statement of
Ownership

Statement of ownership, manage-
ment, circulation, ete. (required by
the acts of Congress of August 24,
1912) of the Ring-tum Phi, published
semi-weekly in Lexington, Virginia,
for 1964-65.

1. Names and addresses of the
editors and business manager.

Editors: S. Smith, Lexington, Va.

S. Jung, Lexington, Va.

Business Manager: R. Carrell, Lex-
ington, Va.

2. The owner is Washington and
Lee University (Publications Board)
Lexington, Va.

3. The known bondholders, mort-
gagees, and other security holders
are none.

4. the average number of copies
of each issue of this publication dis-
tributed through the mails or other-
wise to paid subscribers is 1500.

Signed:
ichard Carrell

 

 

have |

STATE

LEXINGTON

 

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

THE GREATEST ADVENTURE

   

 

tet

BERISON: GEORGE CHAKIRIS

COLOR oy of Lure
PANAVISION~
Released thru UMITED ARTISTS

i
1633 SQUADRON

 

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35'S. Main St.
Phone HO 3-4121

Keepsake Diamond Rings
Modern repair department

 

 

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE

VARNER and POLE

STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service
We have meal tickets at savings to you

TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE

Southern Inn

Dance Board
Creates Posts

(Continued from Page 1)

The Board has chosen two repre-
sentatives from each fraternity and
two non-fraternity men to conduct
a poll to observe what entertainment
students want for Springs and Finals.
Hibbard emphasized that, “Only
through the support of the student
body in buying Dance Plans and
voting in polls can we keep great
entertainment coming to Washing-
ton and Lee.”

The heretofore unmentioned Dance
Board members are Vice President,
Jim Crothers; secretary-treasurer,
Rob Vaughan; and Jim DeYoung,
representative from the Executive
Committee appointed by Jim Kulp.
Dr. Charles F. Phillips and Dean
Lewis John aid as faculty advisers.

Notice

Washington and Lee students are
invited to attend the Randolph-Ma-
con Young Republicans Club meet-
ing at 7:30 p.m. this Tuesday. The
State Chairman of the Young Re-
publicans will speak on the rela-
tion between our national morals
and our foreign policy, Students
desiring transportation should con-
tact Gavin Garrett at the Kappa Sig

I-M Week

(Continued from page 3)

 

 

*
*
*
*
*

 

DON’T MISS...

James Brown

The Shirelles

The Lettermen
Glenn Miller’s Orch.
Joe & Eddie

Buy DANCE PLANS Now!!

— ON SALE AT CO-OP —

Only one more week left to get in on

this great savings

Jennings Reviews

“Night of Iguana”
(Continued from page 2)

and, together, they will keep each
other free.

“The Spirit of Truth,” the topic of
Shannon’s last sermon, is found by
Maxine, Miss Jelkes, and Shannon
when communication is established
among them. Maxine and Shannon
have been groping for communica-
tion through the physical, while Miss
Jelkes has found communication with
Nonno in the spiritual. After Miss
Jelkes guides Shannon and Maxine
to each other, and establishes a con-
nection between them, thy can start
a new and wholesome existence
combinging the spiritual with the
physical.

 

New Men Selected

For Service Society
(Continued from page 1)

Newman, Kappa Sig junior; Alan
Wade, Phi Kap sophomore; and John
Yost, SAE junior.

Functions of the Student Service
Society often go unnoticed on cam-
pus. These functions include conduct-
ingtours of Lee Chapel for visitors,
and guiding pareints on Parents’
Weekend. Members are selected on the
basis of leadership ability, service po-
tential, and geuine interest.

Dick Kreitler, a Phi Psi senior, is
president of the Student Service So-
ciety this year. Jack Babar, Phi Delt
junior, is currently serving as secre-

tary.

 

$O0000000000000000000008

HICKHAN’S ESSO

on
US. 11 SOUTH

CPCS ST SST TS

 

.
4
‘
.
4
4
4
4
q
4

fe ode e obe oe ode ote obo afe obo oe oe ode feo ode oe oe oto ode odors
- samme :

 

 

JADE

Cologne—After Shave

EAST

Exhilarating Fragrence

For Young Men Going Places

| style available in walk shorts—so why not

_ you hacked up yourself with an old pair of
| pants and scissors? Instead, look for prop-

Che Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as second class matter September 20, 1946 at the Post Office.
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878.

SHANNON JUNG
Editor-in-Chief

RICHARD CARRELL
Business Manager

EDITORIAL BOARD

  

Larry Meeks iincianscsessadoreansvesnedapnasteesivebedisreiseiaiiasdiacsadiasstssaciuininiand Managing Editor
Oe MI issicisssicctisebbisiniiisouniecisaccss Scale Assistant Editor
Blaine Ewing, Ken McGraw...cccscccsssscsssesssscssesssees Assistant Managing Editors
ee yO ccsuslasauiss eu acmiowes News Editors
SO TI airetsrihsievistastiiniasesrsresersiniascecscta ccc ies Sports Editor
Warren Montgomery Special Features Editor
ee Pe Maida Photography Editor
ee MN iti cec sensu Gs Assistant News Editor
PU Piss cssesessesrnctthevtentaninsonniatainiiaiscaccecccatcnased Cinema Review Editor
Si sitrcseinsecciiistsasnesinbiaveienibibidinissidiinsictistacckinccc dicta cainemmenel Gary Apgar

 

Laqubizzes.
CLUB &
CAMPUS
FASHIONS

by O. E. SCHOEFFLER,
ESQUIRE’S Fashion Director

 

   

SUMMERTIME — and if the livin’ isn’t really easy it'll look that
way, in the colorful, easy-care sportswear that’s going to liven up
the Summer scene! Let’s take a look at it.

BRIGHTEN THE CORNER where you are

in one of the new “Three-Alarm Blazers.”
They’re just what they sound like—a
bright new breed of blazer to supplement
your traditional navy or black one. This
summer, they’re comfortably cool—most
of them in lightweight basket-weaves.
And as for color—well, look for them in
camel, or in a whole range of reds from
brilliant to burgundy, or in bottle-green.
Linings are brighter, too—from solids to
stripes to sporting motifs. Even the blazer
button brightens, with brilliant enamel
buttons to choose from, as well as metal
with insignia or crests.

FOR COMPLETE COVERAGE in the sport

jacket department, consider strong pat-
tern and definite texture. Deep, glowing
Madras plaids look new this year against
a paler, softer background. In seersuckers,
stripes are getting bolder—some as wide
as %”—and brighter: add red and white
to the more usual black, gray, tan and blue
stripes on white. Something new in seer-
sucker is the multi-color plaid, in combi-
nations like gray, red, and white; or blue,
gray and white. The look of linen is im-
portant—either pure linen, or a blend of
polyester and flax fibers. This nubby,
slubby fabric is a real smasher in the
natural tan shades!

SUMMER’S A SLACKS SEASON, with the emphasis on plain,

pleatless waistband styling, tapered legs and cuffs. Lightweight
blends of polyester and wool hold their shape and stay cool and
comfortable at the same time. In addition to your basic wardrobe
of dark slacks, you might move up into the intermediate shades—
lighter grays, clay blues and the like. For your lighter moments,
consider twill weave slacks in light, natural tan and off-white
shades—these in cotton blended with polyester for shape retention.

THEY’RE CLOSING THE GAP between

dress and woven sport shirts—these days
you can hardly tell ‘em apart without a
program! But bold and bright as dress
shirts are, the sporting type is even
brighter! Styled with your favorite, but-
ton-down collar and long sleeves, there's a
wide range of blazer stripes and big
checks to choose from—all in wild colors.
And Madras plaids are just as strong as
they ever were! Any of these shirts in
thin cottons will keep you cool in the worst
of heat waves—as will the traditional cot-
ton knit mesh pullovers.

It’s A SHORTS LIFE and a merry one,

for Summer! There's lots of color and

 

give the old heave-ho to those ragged jobs

 

erly tailored striped shorts... or Madras

| plaids.

Available at

Lexington, Virginia

o
=
=
tr

 

 

.+ Or just plain solids to blend or

contrast with your sport jackets and - \)
shirts, ~——

MAKE THE POOL-SIDE SCENE ~or the beach, for that matter
in tank trunks or surfers, The first are quick-drying briefs in rib-
knit nylon for serious swimmers. Surfers—for no less serious

searchers of the deep—are longer, laced up the back, and have

| matching waistband and leg band. After the crawl, cover every-

thing with a sport shirt or parka-type jacket
terry cloth,

perhaps lined with

And that winds up this year’s fashion round-up. Stay loose
see you next fall!

we'll

© a4 by Foavire, Ine
