 

|

 

Friday
Edition

 

_ Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Che KRing-tum Phi

Friday
Edition

 

Volume LXV

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 23, 1965

Number 45

 

Chuck Berry Leads Off Springs Weekend

Strollers Play This Afternoon;
Wells And Warwick Tomorrow

By MIKE DUNN
Associate Editor

Recording star Chuck Berry performs tonight at 8 o'clock
in Doremus Gymnasium as the 1965 Springs Weekend ofh-

WEL Chosen

To Premter
New Opera

The world premiere of portions of
an opera by two W&L professors
will be the featured point in a con-
cert of new music to be presented
Tuesday, April 27, at 8:00 p.m. in
Lee Chapel. The opera, entitled The
Curl, is the joint work of Professor
Robert Stewart and Dr. J. K. Shill-
ington. A representative of the Stu-
dent Concert Society, which is spon-
soring the concert, spoke of the
opera as “very exciting — a most
stimulating piece of music.” The en-
semble, which features soprano Mar-
tha Laverty, from Southern Semi-

 

Flash

The litthe old ladies in Richmond
have had their day in court—and they
lost.

The Virginia State Supreme Court
has struck a blow for liberty. Mon-
day they in effect outlawed the state's
right to censor movies. Taking into
account recent U.S. Supreme Court
decisions, the Virginia jurists ruled
that no longer do movies shown in
the state have to display that insidious
seal saying, “Approved by the Vir-
ginia State Board of Motion Picture
Censors.”

Ah, but the Court was generous. The
little old ladies in combat boots
haven't lost their jobs. They can still
give out seals of approval, it just
doesn't make any difference whether
the flick has it or not .

But they probably won't be so busy
now. They can fill up their time in-
stead with trips to wrestling and bex-
ing matches (Oh, those half-naked
men!), and we can attend good flicks
at the local emporiums.

 

tenor Dan Manson, baritone
Bill Supon, and bass John Neergard,
with members of the John Graham
Brass Choir, will be conducted by
Professor Stewart

Professor Stewart has had numer-
ous works performed in the past by
nationally known musicians,

Also to be presented are brass
pieces by Steve Millard, Bill Atwell,
and Jack McGill, as well as a com-
position by Molly Bidwell, a Hollins
student. Bill Supon will present, in
addition, a set of songs by Atwell,
accompanied by an instrumental
quartet. With such a quantity of
novel music, the concert promises to
be one of the most interesting of the
1964-65 season here in Lexington

nary,

2

 

After Philippine Tour

Peace Corps

Miss Peggy MecNally, a Peace
Corps Volunteer from Denver, Col-
orado, will visit the Washington and
Lee campus on Monday and Tues-
day, April 26 and 27. As a Volun-

 

where she taught English Literature
and methods of teaching English as
a second language to prospective
teachers at Cebu Normal College.

Graduated from Loretto Heights
College, Denver, in 1961, with a maj-
or in English, Miss MeNally taught
English in San Jose, Costa Rica, and
in the Denver public schools. In
1962, she applied for the Peace
Corps and received her assignment
to Cebu Normal College

As well as teaching at Cebu, Miss
MeNally became an active advisor in
student affairs. She wrote and di-

rected six one-act plays, including
one written by one of her Filipino
students. She helped to coach the
debating team and assisted in train-
ing speakers for participation
inter-collegiate competition
MeNally acted as the college news-

paper advisor and also started a
rental library in her home for the
use of her students, using her own

as well as

books and
those supplied by the Peace Corps

magazines

 

| While working in conjunction with

‘the Philippine Government's plan to

 

Springs Combo Schedule

Friday

Delt: Rhythm Makers (o

Night

pen)

Beta, KA: Ambassadors (closed)

DU: Instigators (open)
KA: Rockin’ Rhythms («

losed)

Phi Dele; SAE: Chiffons (open)
Phi Kap: Disciples (open)

Sigma Chi: Guitar Kimble and the Untouchables (open) |

SPE: B.S. Plair and the Majors (open)

Saturday

Afternoon

Delt, PiKA, ZB r: Thernton Sisters (at Goshen, clos d)

Phi Dele, SAE: Rhythm

Makers (open)

Saturday Night

Beta: Famous Flames (closed)

Delt: Little Boys (open)
DU: Pams (open)
KA: Twisters (open)

KS: Club Rockers, Rhythm Brothers (closed)

Phi Delt: Famous Flame

s (open)

Phi Gam, SPE: Dionne Warwick and the Divots (open)

PEP: Corvettes (open)

Phi Psi: Woody Oppenh
PiIKA, ZBT: Ricky and
Pi Phi: Monnorays and ¢
SAE: Rockin’ Rhythms {
Sigma Chi
Sigma Nu: Saints and Si

Rhy thm Mak

eimer and the M.P’s (open)
the Remans {epen)
srandeurs (open)

open}

ers (open)

nners {open}

teer, Miss McNally was assigned to,
the island of Cebu, the Philippines,

rected a Christmas pageant and di-.

mn)

Miss}

 

Chuck Berry
Springs
Gymnasium; Dionne Warwick Cleft)
and Mary Wells (right) perform to-
morrow at the — hopefully — out-
deor concert on the practice field,

(above) will get
rolling tonight in Doremus

Veterans Visit Campus

make English the universal medium
of instruction in the multi-dialect
islands, Miss McNally up-dated
guide books used by student-teach-
ers, and supplemented information
on the oral-aural approach to lan-
guage teaching. Upon completing
her two year assignment, she re-
turned home, travelling by way of
Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan.
Miss McNally has this to say about

Dr. Phillips Publishes
New Economics Text
On U. S. Industries

A new textbook dealing with the
regulated industries, written by
Washington and Lee economics pro-
fessor Charles F. Phillipe, Jr. will
be published May 1

The book is unique in that it is the
first to combine the fields of public
| utiilties dthe transportation in-
dustries. Previous texts have dealt
with these subjects separately.

The new volume is the outgrowth
io fa one-semester course, “Regulated
iIndustries in the American Econ-
omy’, taught by Dr. Phillips in the
| 1960-61 vear. The Richard
D Ine. publishing firm will
i issue book as part of its Irwin
iSeries in Economics
Dr. Phillips, a graduate of the
betty of New Hampshire and
| Harvard frequent
i author government
regulated indus-
recent work, which

an

academic
Irwin

the

University, is a

field

and

the
husines
Hi

authored last vear, |

ol

in

and

irlt most
ne co a monoe-
graph p iblished by the board of gO0V-
Federal Re “wrve Sys-
itled “Bank Mergers and the

rulators

|

ernors Of ine
i
jtem en

Re Au Heise s

 

Springs Weekend Dress

i lt was announced today that
conventional dress will not be re-
quired for the outside concert
Saturday evening. In response to
a petition from the President of
Springs, the faculiy committee on
social functions decided that coats
and ties would net be necessary
for Saturday's festivities

However, the committee did ask
that sherts net be worn by either
WAL students
and that
dress be avoided

dates,
of

fuests oF

extreme sloppiness
of rain, the concert
would have to be held in Dore-
miu GC. mnastium

if, in case

conventional
required, Larkin
chariman of the Dence
commitice, has

dress is again
bowler
Board

isstied

at the

alse
drinking

floor
a warning about

ouldoor concert

 

 

 

NOTICE

left unguarded

weekend

 

her term in the Philippines: “There
were moments of deep satisfaction,
unlike any I have ever known. There
were also moments of frustration
and loneliness. I will always feel a
deep love for the Philippines and the
Filipinos. The Peace Corps experi-
ence itself is intense it’s a period
of constant discovery about yourself
and others. I almost envy those who
are just beginning to explore it.”

*

 

Dr. Milton Colvin, Washington and
Lee's Peace Corps Liaison Office:
encourages all students to meet Miss
McNally and discuss with her any
questions concerning the Peace
Corps at a luncheon and question
period, at 7:30 o'clock Monday eve-
ning, in DuPont Hall.

After she completed her tour of)
duty in the Philippines for the Peace!
Corps Service, Miss McNally spent a}
month traveling home through the |
countries of Nationalist China (Tai-|
wan) and Japan, and the British/
Crown Colony of Hong Kong, situ-|
ated on the coast of Communist!
China.

Another member of the Peace

 

Corps recruiting team also plans to!
visit the Washington and Lee cam-|
pus. He is Stephen Guild, a 1963)

| W&L graduate who was seriously)

jinjured in a truck accident while|
working with the Peace Corps in|
Sierra Leone, Africa. His visit is!

set tentatively for May

'dents’ demonstrations in Washing-
ton.

Excerpts of the petition read as
follows

“Whereas, United States stu-

cially gets under way.

Because of fire department restrictions on the size of the
crowd which may be seated in the gym, admissions will be on
a strictly first-come, first-served basis. The Dance Board has
also announced that admissions will be restricted to Dance
Plan holders and those who have previously bought tickets;

tickets will not be sold at the

Viet Petition

gate. This action has been taken
*because of the restrictions imposed
| by tax laws on at-the-door sales.

This afternoon from 4 to 6 o'clock

| the Bermuda Strollers entertained at

Backing Policy
Sent to LBJ

Tomorrow afternoon, Reger Wal-
president of the Washington
and Lee chapter of the Young Re-

publicans, will mail a student and

lace,

 

faculty petition supporting Presi-
dent Johnson’s present policy in
Vietnam to the White House.

The petition, circulated by the)

Young Republicans Club on campus, |
was signed by over 800 members of|
the faculty and student body in a
non-partisan polling. Statistically,|
this number is almost two-thirds of |
the university.

The petition was designed as a
counter for the recent demonstra-
|

tions in Washington by thousands of |
college students protesting the pres-
ence of United States military forces
in active warfare in Vietnam. The
purpose of this petition is to demon-
that the President does have
the support of the college student

strate

Copies of the petition being sent
to colleges throughout Virginia in
hopes of mushrooming the move-

ment into a state-wide effort. If
successful, it could completely nulli-

fy the image projected by the stu-

dent opinion as regards the role of
the United States in South Vietnam
is not being accurately reflected by
these ‘students’ who protest the
President's policy of strength and
of determination to maintain an
independent South Vietnam. . . .
We, the undersigned members of
the faculiy and student bedy of
Washington and Lee University,
do wish to express our faith in and
support of the President's policy

 

in South Vietnam.

| the cocktail party in Red Square in

the unofficial opening of the week-
end.

Tomorrow night at 8 o'clock on
the football practice field Mary
Wells and Dionne Warwick will join
in presenting the first outdoor eve-

ning concert ever held at W&lL.
Larkin Fowler, Chairman of the

Dance Board Floor Committee point-
ed out; “This will be a unique ex-
periment and its success and con-
tinued use in future years depends,
to a great extent, on the student
body.”

Although conventional dress will
be required at Berry’s concert to-
night, it has been decided that for
the outdoor concert casual dress may
worn. This does not, however,
include any kind of shorts, although
slacks will be permitted for the girls.

be

Since the practice field is included
in university property, the rule con-
cerning no drinking on campus will
apply to the concert. Anyone plan-
ning attend is also reminded to
bring a blanket or something else
to sit on

to

Admissions will be conducted just
as at a regular concert, with no at-
the-gate Only one gate will
be open at the end of the footbridge
leading to the concert area.

In the event of rain or poor con-
ditions on the field, the concert will
be moved into the gym, and conven-
tional dress will be required

In a lighthearted moment the
Dance Board has decided to decorate
the gym for tonight's performance
by means of an art contest open to
anyone interested in contributing his
talents. A beverage of as yet unre-
vealed composition has been prom-
ised to the creator of the best work

Anticipation is also running high
in regard to the “surprise” promised
by Springs President Dave Marchese
for the intermission in the concert
tomorrow night

The entertainment planned for the
two concerts

sales

a definite con-

(Continued on page 4)

shows

Baber Selected To Head Service Soctety

Jack Baber, a Phi Delt junior from
Houston, Texas, has been elected Pres-
ident of the Student Service Society
for the coming year, Baber, who served
this year as the organization's Secre-
tary, sueceeds Dick Krietler. He was
selected Tuesday

Bob Lee, a Phi Psi from Short Hills
New Jersey, was elected the body's
Vice-President and Alan Wade, a Ph
Kap from Huntington, West Virginia
will sueceed Baber as Secretary

All the officer previons
members Baber ha
He i

of the

new
the
a member

art
ol ocity

been for two vear
a dorm Coulis lor a
Dance Board
Calyx, a
md an

week he wa
Calyx for

fie

 

r editor
the 13

fraternit

manag
ol
ol hi

named

ol

Clul
y. Last
of hte

member
ollicet
editor
The at yoat

Lee, who

 

 

iient Cor

o| Conwy et

 

Purpose

 

Parents Weekend, SIPA, and other
such program
Selection of Freshmen
The organization in the past has a

lected member the

the

from sophomore

and junior classes in fall of aca-

165-66 Student Service
Jack Baber

Al Wade ai lel

 

demic year. Baber feels that next year

the group may break tradition and
select freshmen during November
This policy will increase membership
and provide greater experience for

its members

Officers
Bo

Hn Lee was absent
THE RING-TUM PHI

CONTACT Was Qualified Success;
~Demonstrated Student Body Attitude

By BLAINE BROWNELL | tively, and also on the fact that each| away from any lecture or discussion
Chairman of CONTACT | CONTACT activity was a success in) that is not required by a professor,

In the opinion of the Steering} terms of those that attended the ac-; or that does not offer an exceptional
Committee, the recent CONTACT tivity. In a secondary sense, how-|name figure. Dean Acheson told the
Symposium presents an additional | ever, CONTACT’s success must be| Chairman last May that famous men
opportunity to make some broad con-| qualified. Aside from Dr. James W.| and worthwhile words do not neces-
clusions concerning Washington and | Silver’s lecture, the average audience} sarily go together, and in fact the
Lee life. CONTACT is, of course,| at each lecture was approximately | opposite is often the case. CON-
only a small aspect of that life at 100-125 persons. This compares fav-| TACT attempted to bring men of
present, but since it is a manifesta-| orably with the average lecture au-| qualification and substance to Wash-

Page 2

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association
Friday Edition

: Derential Step Deena

On May 10 the faculty will again meet to discuss the
present cut system and consider possible changes. In addi-
tion to a change in the penalty for overcuts, there seems to be
some hope that the cut system will be abolished entirely. The
Ring-tum Phi as representative of responsible student opinion,
strongly urges such a move.

We feel that our seeking to do away with the yoke of

minority, CONTACT would be jus-
tified if held only for them,
Socially Oriented

We have thus reluctantly arrived
at the conclusion that the majority
of the students at Washington and
Lee are more socially than intellec-
tually oriented. We have found that
the majority of them are dominated

: ——— ‘ tion of more fundamental elements|dience at W&L outside of CON-| ington and Lee — the average stu- by a work-during-the-week, play-
required class attendance is justified in that we are not ask- at Washington and Lee we do not| TACT, but when one considers the} dent, however, paid little attention eee ean ie _ Tae
ing for freedom from but rather freedom for. We are not|think that the remarks in this re-|fact that W&lL students only com-| to this. les a 9 to 9 time-clock Job — such

a rut should never exist as the gen-

(3) CONTACT has been criticized :
eral day to day rule for students in

in the Ring-tum-Phi for having too

of
this audience, then we can see the

e : 6 cs ore > 5 Y,
port are out of proportion, Whatever posed, on the average, 50-75%

ls without a cause for we sincerely believe that a system
repels Y y else CONTACT accomplished,

of unlimited cuts for all, or nearly all, would be a Positive | ¢.o1 that it did demonstrate some-| truly pitiful student participation in| limited a topic, and by others as ae a se = together,
contribution to a more intellectually oriented Washington and| thing of the prevailing attitudes of| CONTACT . having too broad a topic. We chal- cies aan ol gg
the student body. We do not claim| (2) The old rule — “the big name lenge the editorialist to give us aj)“ & : .—

a step back toward the “country club of the . ia dion ieee Gian
Lae and oe es . e we that these broad conclusions are ab-| draws the crowd” — was manifested| broader and more popular topic on depth. These are harsh words, but
South” if any such institution ever existed. It is additional

we feel them justified.

solutely true — they are merely ob-|at CONTACT. This is only natural,| this campus than politics. Argument . ;

Lys Last: : : ' ; : : i. wal ; = 4| Should CON j ? s

responsibility we ask and not an escape from responsibility. | servations in a particular context. In| and we expected this. However, we|” this point will become almost amie an ey i age
In regard to the theory that we do not “deserve” cuts,| addition, these and all of them|found that no amount of publicity | meaningless, especially when we —* B f -

small part of larger whole, we feel
that it represents a continuing effort
to bring something of worth to this
campus in an area that seems to get
only student lip-service. It is of the
utmost importance that it continue,
and it is equally important that it be
continued as an operation of stu-
dents, for students.

We should continue to compare
ourselves with the best universities
in this country, and to compare
CONTACT with the best programs
of its kind. If life at Washington and
Lee is mediocre (which we do not

(Continued on page 4)

consider that the panel discussions
and question periods at each lecture
were provided so that the students,
in effect, could control their own
topics. We found that this panel dis-
cussion device worked exceptional-
ly well; unfortunately there were
few there to appreciate it.

(4) We found, in short, that the
average Washington and Lee man
would simply rather do something
else than attend a lecture or intellec-
tual endeavor for the day. There is,
however, an actively curious and
seeking group at Washington and
Lee, and since they are enough of a

should not be attributed to any par-
ticular member — they are pri-
marily the opinions of the Chairman
and his immediate assistants,

(1) CONTACT, in the most im-
portant sense, was a success. This is
|a statement based on the opinions of
the faculty and guest speakers who
were in a position to judge it objec-

concerning a speaker’s qualifications
could affect greater interest in that
speaker on the part of the student
body. This reflects a lack of respect
for truly substantive discussion, as
well as a certain prevailing imma-
turity in most of our students. Un-
fortunately, there is a strong inclina-
tion at this university to remain

we view cuts as neither reward nor punishment, but as dis-
cipline which should be the student’s own concern, and which
he should have enough maturity to maintain for himself.

Lyric Owner Laments Passing
Of Once Proud Flick ‘Teams

By JAMES JENNINGS
Back in the days when Washing-
ton and Lee was
the school that
everybody is
bitching about its

 

 

 

 

 

| are doing, there is one man who will
be remembered, for he has weath-
ered the flick teams. and he is now
weathering student apathy and he
will fill his theater with water and
weather the new W&L. This man

 

 

not being today,|i8 Ed Side, the proud owner of the C | F Gi ’ .

there was a hard| Lyric Theater. row ey eatures ir S etter
core of students| The other day I was greeted by - z .
who made flicks| Mr. Side out in front of the Armpit I h I M Of L f
their avocation.|and fell into a conversation with Nsig ts nto eaning 1 e

him about the changes in the flick
goers. Mr. Side, in his wide stripe
pants and ruffled shirt, slowly spun

They had a flick
team that did not
miss the opening

By ARTHUR McBLAIR CROWLEY | straightened some things out. You

Author’s Note: After a month of| don’t have any respect for us, You
Ring-tum Phi’s I think that just because you don't

 

 

 

of any movie in his theory about the disappearance i prese nt this: a| have to drive two hours to date us
Jennings Lexingt Like|of the flick team i
exington. ike ‘am. brief summary of| that we're cheap and stupid, Well,
many things at W&L, they are gone} He said that the boys on the th e worthwhile| we're not. You guys think you're
and must be forgotten if we are to} team did not care what was playing material, minus, of Such studs, but you're not, On the
progress or whatever it is that we|but could enjoy anything. They

course, the fifty} Whole, however, Ampersand boys
or sixty articles on| are nice, well mannered, and fun to

 

_ went to the movie to relax and en-

= : - ; joy themselves and were just as \ lat it’ bad thi , i
; the honor system,| @ate, so it’s too bad that they think
Rider Entertains Family wang » boo thei: wes through a the cut  system,| they're such studs when they're real-
Of Prospective Freshman sadn \ os a H nae - conventional dress|!y nothing but scum.
through a goox : owever, to- ‘ = tefiomsave
As They Take The Tour day’s student flick goer will not go and the infirmary, | Respectfully yours,

 

leaving nothing | BETTY UTZ.

but the following: | Northern Knob Senior.
Gentlemanly|

conduct at Ampersand: The follow-|

Sid
When

today’s student i

to just any movie, Mi
put it, “It is feast or famine.
I asked him if

DUL 4S

By BRUCE W, RIDER

As I was frolicking merrily, mer-

Crowley

 

 

 

 

 

 

; And then, of course, we have the
rily upon the lovely green grass in}man of discriminating taste he : : ;
front of the lovely red and white; quickly answered, “No. The bo ing letter appeared in the Ampersand | insight into the meaning of life, sup-
: re red a f , : answered, = i ys " . : .
: | ; Ciferm on March 17 of this year and} plied to us by Hollins College
buildings which together comprise! today have to be sold on a movie ; . | : —= :
: : - é was contributed by a student of! “Semewhere way out there is a
lovely Washington and Lee Univer-!| before they will ge. They are the N » , ; = ‘
: Northern Knob, local Women’s col-| huge light ON «se 3
sity, I was approached by a very) victims of advertising. If a movie ae ”
\; ege: lcannot see ...or... hear.
erious father and a very chatty} has a bad trailer (preview and still | ow t th k | th
ane Whine Ras > must, *n, ask ourselve
mother and a very young son who] shot advertisements) no one will Dear Wednesday Editor: a e = s ~ , yo a. vi
: imate questions for whic ere
had come to lovely Lexington to| come, but if a movie is supposed to Over here there's been a lot of' gy puesti ; : yor " €
, = : are, Decause we sleadiastiy reluse (1s
look over the College of Their|be good they all come. It’s feast talking about the so-called “gentle- a oe oe
h = it fear?) to look beyond non-com-
Choice. or famine. men” at Ampersand, and we over uatteal ecuaithenaied Plutarch’
i ‘ s,3 ‘ i a co TLLIMCHLS, rons
And, as dear mothers are wont to (Continued on page 4) The Great Escape here think that it’s about time wey. p., —"
PON ccc _—_ : Sane tae — | Lives, Pinky Lee, dandruff, airmail
do, the lady came right up and spoke | -~ . _" ———_——— : } , i “B
pS | Stamps, near beer, | word “Boo-
te me. “Oh pardon, pardon us, you ; ee ;

neat looking college student all be-
decked with coat and tie, would you

Artist-in-Residence Teaches Energetic Art Studto Class;

and match heads, ultimately
| no answers. So we read and talk

| Boo”,

be so kind Ik f . and think and act and breath and
on os ae ares : : li eat and drink and smell and feel
avian“! Naw Painting Mural For Foyer Of Journalism School i. oc"

Husband Speaks : said:

“Quien sabe?”

I ceased my merry, merry frolick- By KAZ HERCHOLD ly an ornamental role in the much! perience goes further For Mr.' sciousness of anatomy. Prohaska Tie ote day 1 v muon on
ing and told the mother of the pros-| Harvard has one. Wesleyan has maligned catalogue. All too often, Prohaska teaches an energetic and shrinks from labored academic ideas,| »),, estaae ial am in vel iin to
pective student that 1 would of|one. And so does Pomona, Williams, a university's big name catch sits revitalized Art Studio Course. certainly a refreshing attitude. The| nothing and it owiae n oot 10st
course be most happy to be of any|Amberst and Yale. As the search for back in an ivory paneled office, re- The course itself deviates some-| desired end is to develop in each ouneuthine we call h os j a .
help that I possibly could be, since| truly meaningful education on Am- ceiving platitudes and playing court! what from the orthtodox in that Mr. individual a stronger sense of per- : - a a

after all | am a student at a college
noted its gracious charm and
gentlemanly behavior.

Then the husband spoke to me

for

 

  

 

“artist in residence”
than

cept of an

become more just

 

 

erica’s campuses continues, the con-
nas
fashionable
among the elite. Today it is a com-

awed undergraduates
is that he
intelleetuality to the school
portunity

to

ficauion

The justi-
lends an aura of
The op-
for contact with a major

Prohaska stresses special relation-
ships, gesture, and contour drawing
rather than anatomy. Admittedly

“avant garde”, this approach pre-

 

ception to the werld about him
This, hopes Mr. Prohaska, will be
his lasting contribution to the Wash-
ington and Lee man.

 

 

 

history of yellow, eastern man, The
Chinese, the Burmese, the Japanese,
ithe Thais, the North Koreans, the
|; South Kereans, the Cambodians, the
Nips, and even the Melanesians are

 

 

 

“Listen, kiddo, just how much is all petitive necessity figure in the literary or artistie| sents anatomy in a painless sort of Born in Yugoslavia in 1901, Ray| ali yellow and in the East some-
this stuff going to cost? Do I have| Washington and Lee's Ray Proh- world may very well be a unique way, hoping that each individual) prohaska migrated to this country as! where
to pay for all this damn green grass | ska, though, fulfills more than mere-| experience. Here, at W&L that ex-' student will acquire his own con-|, young boy and studied at the, On iio ata thand the Geese
and red and white paint for all these California School of Fine Arts in| the North Sieh + 9 am
damn buildings? San Francisco. He has won many| Americans. the Central Americans
Where's the bath room iwards during his career, including! and even the Mexicans have always
His wife quickly apologized for the Hallmark Art Award in 1949,|/ heen regarded by them as strange.
this rude outburst Alter all, deat the Audobon Artists Anonymous) fringe sorts of creatures who are en-
what is money?” Then the man told Award in 1954, the Joseph Meyer countered on the fringes
her what he thought money was and Prize in 1956, and the John Martin How curious‘ And we cannot
they went back and forth hollering Memorial Award of the Springfield he Ip but ask the basic question that
and all so | just waited politely until Art Museum in 1962, His work are) rise, irresistibly, into our minds: a)
they were finished exhibited throughout the country.) Hgw did they get there?: b) Hew
All this time the son was very The University possesses a collection| ean they find better and happiet
quiet l asked him if he had any of Mr. Prohaska’s work, the latest i lives for themselve c) What ean I
questions about our lovely campus sddition to which is a mural he has! do te help reeoncile these two great
lie did ls there a bathroom in the ju completed for the Journalism| ocial orders ellow ud white
Chapel? leparimer Phe April 24 issue ol blending them into a sort of mottled
While he one the mother , turday Evenin Post carrie jonquil’
iiided in me that aithouen thei , ol llustration Two of h j Du first in orc io tx fu
“ was extrem personable ind nave en ecepied for the i human, we must see o eve ifr
(40 Alon Well With Other he \ 1 Museur Biennial Exhibit l lation iat «Oni to ou lve nd
t the smartest kid in hi M i ough 16. Reeently he has hese around u it to 10M “no
u e A Student League! aren't around u md vet ‘
i Ked om uu n member of 1 N York au iow? the Hividua And thi natufrai-
sols family had ever attended | Whitne Museum Hi illustration nine the question of individual-
WAL. The woman thought ene re = , ppeared 1 the page ol m For ex in pre I. individualism
vembered that her great ; Esquire, Holiday nd = Woman's jimited only to individuals’?
mil mothe ide had come here Home At lent of New York, M: In rospection, lookin nich wt
Pink ] iid Then there Ih P . ce Of Dig City) « in Iso see } ‘ ere HOWE
) ablem. You see af om members | cones ited winds of th
o | Lee we ‘ pan , Sull, he enjoy ale i is 1 velit fette
i e Rel Clay } | ten it Washington . ‘ . ic —
en jn on > ‘ le ! | ind ‘ on campu ‘ i il ; ‘ y erf
pes iundred point it we vir of #7 \ ) } lou
vided to his College Beard score Already he 1 iken a vigorou uth of
elative h bere i W&L man iin extending the curriculum ol Ac w o well expressed here re-
Oh, how nie mid the lady fered t he Fine Arts Department.' centls John Quirkly ih urtiel
That puts Fred, Jr. way up in the} Standing beside his nearly completed mural, which is to be placed in the foyer of the Journalism Depari-|He plans to set up a graphic course|“My Life Among the Navajo” that
50's.” j|ment is Artist-in-residence, Ray Prohaska. The mural portrays the advance and world wide nature of com~| early next fall with the purchase of | appeared in last Tuesday's R-tP, th
(Continued on page 4) | munications. i (Continued on page 4) is not an easy question to resolve
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Heumann Hurls No-Hitter; W&L Wins

Generals Win 2-1 on Bishop’s Run;
Lose Yesterday to Bridgewater

W&L’s baseball team does not win very many of their

games.

When they do win, though, they do it in style.
On Tuesday, for instance, sophomore righthander Pete

Heumann pitched a no-hitter

as the Generals beat RPI 2 to

1 in eleven innings for their first victory of the season.

The winning run came after Guy*———

Townley singled and was forced at
second by Luke Crosland. Ed Bish-
op ran for Crosland and promptly
stole second, Heumann walked, and
Larry Perrault singled to drive in
Bishop and wrap up the game.

Wildness was Heumann’s only
problem. He gave up a total of ten
walks, two of which, combined with
two wild pitches, gave the Rams
their run in the seventh inning. He
was also in deep trouble in the first,
walking the bases full with nobody
out, but the next man up struck out
and Ashley Allen’s great throw to
the plate on a long fly to right field
got Heumann out of the inning with
no score.

Except for those two innings, his
curve, which had not been effective
earlier this season, consistently cut
the corners of the plate and the RPI
batters got almost nothing to hit.
Only one spectacular catch, by short-
stop Dave Kirkpatrick on a looping
fly to short left field, was needed to
preserve the no-hitter.

The first W&L run came in the
sixth. Allen walked, took second on
a fielder’s choice, stole third and
came home on a single by Skip
Chase.

The Generals looked better in the
field than they had all year. Be-
sides the fine plays by Allen and
Kirkpatrick already mentioned, the
glovework throughout was excellent.
Only two errors were made, a sea-
son low.

Yesterday different story.
W&L reverted to its old form and
dropped its tenth game of the sea-
son to Bridgewater by a 17-1 score.
That figure outdid by one run the
former Generals low mark, a 16-1
loss to the same Bridgewater team.
The game itself was much the same
as the earlier debacle. The Generals
couldn't do anything right.

Was a

 

Pete Heumann
“... his curve gave RPI almost
nothing to hit.”

* ”
.

: R. L. Hess and Bro. :
° JEWELERS °
> Lexington, Virginia .
> HO 3-2833 $
7 2

LPPPEOOEESOE EEE ESEEEEEEEESEDEEESESSEEESEDIDONEES
Adair-Hutton, Inc.

Lexington, Va.
Headquarters for Men's Wear

toe

vw Gifts, Items
vr Appliances

te
:
3
x
:
:
+
:

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE

Southern Inn

| Golfers Beat Bridgewater,
ODC; Record Now 2-0-1

With victories over Bridgewater
last Friday and Old Dominion on
Monday, the Washington and Lee
golf team now has a record of two
wins, no losses, and a tie.

The Generals golfers defeated the
Bridgewater golfers 8-1 in a match
at Ingleside in Staunton. The only
W&L loss in the match came when
Paul Hatcher, Bridgewater's top
golfer, defeated captain Ed Crosland,
one up.

Dick Drew took medalist honors in
the event as he carded a 76 and de-
feated Vince Gilmer, 7-6. W&L took
best ball honors in the first four-
some, one up.

In the second foursome, Jim Ful-
wider chalked up another W&L win
as he took the measure of Dave Ens-
wiler, 5-4. Fulwider had the sec-
ond best round of the day with a 77
Roger Sennott added another W&L
victory as he beat Dan Williams,
7-5. Best ball honors went to W&L,
6-5.

In the final foursome, Dave Carroll
was an 8-7 victor over Dick Ata-
miam, while Shad Rowe added a 79
and 9-8 victory over Mike Betts.
The best ball score was 9-8 for W&L.

Beat Old Dominion

On Monday the General golfers
were at the Lexington golf course
where they won a 5'2-3' decision
over highly-rated Old Dominion.

In the first foursome, Crosland
was a 4-3 victor over Tim Lyston|
and Drew took the measure of)
Glynn Rogers, two up. Crosland and)
Drew shared medalist honors for the}
day as each shot a 76. Surprisingly,|
Old Dominion took the best
honors, defeating W&L two up.

In the seeond foursome, both Old
Dominion’s Bob Truitt and Fulwider
shot 81's, but the Old Dominion golf-
er was a one up victor. Sennott
halved his match with Ken Grubbs!
and the best ball was also halved.

In the final foursome, Carroll and
Terry Emerson halved their match
while Rowe, with a 77, was a 4-2
winner over Tom Cotton. The best
ball went to W&L, 2-1

This afternoon ,the Generals trav-
eled to Hot Springs for one of the
toughest matches of the
against University of Virginia.

 

ball |

i

season

NOTICE

The first annual SPEPOOJCA
spring tournament and art festival
has been scheduled for Tuesday,
April 27 at 5 p.m

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest

and Buttons

COLLEGE TOW

p=

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

a

 

i

for the Home

-—— Ac

ns

WA&L catcher Guy Townley tags RPI runner after right fielder Ashley
Allen throws to plate to get no-hit pitcher Pete Heumann out of trouble
in the first inning. |

 

 

 

Kell Wins 2 As W&L Trackmen

Defeat Lynchburg College, 77-59

Paced by Chris Kell
firsts Washington and Lee'‘s track
team downed Lynchburg College in
a meet there Tuesday afternoon by
a score of 77-59. For the Generals
it was their fourth win against two
losses.

Kell led a W&L sweep in the 100
yard dash, taking the event with a
time of :10.3. Then he added a victory
in the 220 with a time of :22.7. Kell
was also part of the winning 440 re-
lay team. It was a real close meet
going into the 100 yard dash, with
W&L leading 38-30. After the Gen-
eral sweep (Rob Orr coming in sec-
ond and Spencer Sullivan third) the
score was 47-30, and Lynchburg
never again got close.

Reynolds Wins Two

Leading the Lynchburg cause was

 

Rain Curtails IM Softball Action

By RANDY PRIOR |
Rain and postponements held up day and lost to the Phi Kaps oa
intra-mural activity in softball this| The usually consistent pitching of |

week, particularly League A. |Maurice Fliess was overcome by |
The only game played was that a ae auan Bussart |
between the Delts and the NFU.|20M€ runs. Bl a

—
Behind the hurling of Charlie Myers, for the Phi Kaps.

the Delts claimed an 18-0 victory
aided by the hitting of Dick Living-

 

third at 1-2 and W&L fourth, 0-3. | his team understood that the game
Notre Dame easily took top hon-| would not be played at the regularly
ors at the event. They defeated both| scheduled time and therefore was
Georgetown and George Washing-
ton by identical 8-1 scores with only| dispute is pending the decision of
their number one singles player,|1-M_ officals. Also in League B,
sophomore Bill Brown, losing in both | Lambda Chi dealt a smashing defeat
matches. Against W&L Brown de-|to the Phi Delts Wednesday, 19-1.
(Continued on page 4) Pitcher Buck Woodford backed up

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the White Top Restaurant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome

unprepared. Final settlement on this}

Phi Ep took the field on Wednes-;by the consistenly heavy hitting of

ston and pitcher Myers. Errors Pitcher Barry Holcomb gave up 19} 21:
ruined the NFUs and pitchers Steve} US while his team was able to} League A
Colert and Dick Siciliano couldn't} muster only single runs in the 2nd| Ks ........ ie . 2-0
hold back the steady hitting of the TT SS eee 1-0
Delts. POLL GlemtRy WO GB GUMUNUIOUE OE WTO TIED sccccccsessccssssnsnssvesosscssseovsssnconsesonzens 2-1
Phi Ep and DU were rained out| home run tae est ss... 1-2
Monday in League C, but action and Charlie Hibbard. PEE cntcecteassinieiinieonnin 0-3
continued on Tuesday when Phi Psi} In other League D action, SPE) League B
downed the Betas 6-5. Pitcher Pete| powered past SAE 13-8 with hit-
Preston, Pete Alford, and John filled first, fifth, and sixth innings. ZBT we 20
| Moore were the big men at the plate| Steve Hussey was the big hitter for on 2-1
for Phi Psis. , the victors registering a triple and a LCA eseessssessssseesstnnnssetnsennenennenne 2-1
a ————=| double. Chuck Griffin homered to PDT ... = 1-2)
e help out the losing SAE cause. SO veessssessssseeseesnnnnnseeeeennnn » 0-3
Tennis Team Loses Three) oe
. . | Rain didn’t stop the disputed for-| League C
Straight in D.C. Tourney | {cit of the ZBT-Phi Gam contest] PKS 3-0)
: lon Tuesday. Apparently an agreteq | PEEP ..u......:ccscscsssssssssossssssessseessesseenencess 2-1
Washington and Lee's varsity ten-| ment to postpone the game resulted| BTP .......cccsm:svsvsssssssseeeeseenseeeeeeeen 1-2
nis squad saw its unbeaten record) i, 4 misunderstanding when ZBT| DU ........... a
on cn ys . 3-0 ry ae showed up for the match and the| PKP ............... bili ae 1-3
erais competec 1 1 e1gAiN an a ‘ . . ate & s —T
Cherry Blossom Festival Invitation ae ean Gheck kor "ail Ge League D
al Tournament. postponment agreement was not Law 3-1
Notre Dame won the tournament) definite and that in making it he PIA, onnssessssessccsscssssssereesserseennnmmnenn Sell
for the second time with a 3-0 rec-| was speaking only for himself and KA —_ . 1
ord. Georgetown was next at 2-l|not the whole team. Phi Gam SPE 1-2
followed by George Washington in| Dave Marchese says however that | SAE 0-4

i

Bear led the Lambda Chis to vic-
tory.

man said that games rained out last
Friday will be played April 26, and

PiKA ran into trouble this week| those rained out last Monday on
in their clash with the Law School.| April 27. The standings as of April

Dave Myers, Garry Apgar, and Clyde

Intra-mural manager Alton Prilla-

 

TOWN INN

ABC 5392 on and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood
STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N. Main Street

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelery Repair
Hand Engarving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

with two!

the meet’s top individual scorer with
13 points, Frank Reynolds. He was
a double winner, taking first in the
triple jump (39 feet 3% inches) and
the high jump (5 feet 6 inches). He
then added a second in the broad
jump.

W&L took 11 of 16 firsts with
Lynchburg dominating second and
third place finishes.

Dan Manson won the shot put for
W&L with a put of 46 feet 4 inches.
Bryan Benedict added a first in the
discus with a heave of 107 feet 1%
inch.

John Lawrence led a one-two W-
&L finish in the pole vault with a
height of 10 feet 6 inches. John Gra-
ham was second. Donnie Graham
won the broad jump for Lynchburg
with a distance of 19 feet 6 inches.

Generals Take Running

The Generals took seven of eight
individual running events. Bob Big-
ham won the 440 with a time of:51.1.
Jim Thompson added a first in the
880 with a time of 2:01.

In the mile, Mike Lannon of
Lynchburg broke through with a
victory time of 4:35.2. The Generals’
George Parker was second. Ira
Johnson took the two-mile for W-
&L as he posted a time of 10:13.9.

In the high hurdles Mike Goode
led a one-two W&L sweep with a
time of :6.8. Richardson was sec-
ond. Bill Miller was the intermedi-
ate hurdles winner finishing in :43.8.

The two schools split the relays,
W&L winning the 440 and Lynch-
burg the mile.

The Generals next see action against
Elon College on Wednesday in a
meet here. Starting time is 3:45 p.m.

 

 

Stickmen Swamp Duke

Washington and Lee's lacrosse
team swamped the Duke stickmen
yesterday 6-2 in a game there. The
Generals play away again today
when they face the University of
North Carolina. Next home game is
May 8 against Loyola.

 

Lexington

Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

 

ia?
SPECIALS
MON., TUES,, WED.
Trousers, Sweaters .3 for $1
Suits 79

White Shirts
Beautifully Laundered ea. 21

 

We Welcome Your Charge Account

PEEP ESSE S SESE EP EEESE SE SESS SSS S ESS SESE EEE E EES

 

One hour service on request
if clothing is in office

by 4 pm

 

 

 

One nour

"maarinizing”

THE MOST IN DRY CLEANING

 

 

Lexington-Buena Vista Shopping Park

Shops Also in Chariottesvill

and W iynesboro

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c-

    
   

 

} engineering. Or the

 

tt
You meet the nicest
people on a Honda

Maybe it's the incredibly low price. Or the
fantastic mileage. It could be the precision

jence features. But moat likely it’s the fun.
Evidently nothing catches on like the fun

of owning a Honda. Join in, The first step |
is a demonstration ride, Why not today?

HONDA |
Robey Motor Co., Inc. |

BUENA VISTA, VIRGINIA

 

 

safety and conven-

world's biggest seller!

 
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Prohaska Enriches W&L Arts

The mural also

(Continued from page 2) features a new
a lithography press from the New|] tool of modern art, known as the
School of Social Research. silk sereen process. This ingenious

At the request of Professor Riegal| concept, basically, a photo process,

of the Journalism School, Mr. Pro-| employs a negative of a photograph,
haska has recently finished a mural| which then is glued to a silk screen,
for the foyer of Reid Hall. The} leaving the positive spots printable.
mural stresses the advance and|In this manner, the rotary press of
world wide nature of communica-| the Richmond Times-Dispatch is im-
tions. Painted in bright pop colors,| mortalized, along, of course, with the
the work is mostly “symbolic of| managing editor’s ear.

ideas, assembled on a more or less| Ray Prohaska’s presence here not

abstraet, expressionist background of| only as “artist in residence” but

color.” Mr. Prohaska feels that col-| teacher as well does more than en-
ors have their own beauty. What] hance the University’s faculty. Stu-
counts is what other colors are} dent’s energetic response to his tute-

provide one indication of his
Both catalogue and Wash-

lage
influence.

placed along side of them. This idea
helps to show the marked contrast

 

 

between the old and the new in the| ington and Lee are the richer for
communications | industry. his efforts.

e !

Side: ‘Towsies Taking Over’ |

(Continued from page 2) the old movie goers, it's just that

we want to be sure that we get our

When I asked Mi money's worth. I guess we deserve

Side what kind

of movie he would like to run, he|i, pq gide put it, “They're good
miled, chewed on his toothpick, and boys, they just don’t eae
_ : ss — Regge mee what it takes to run a movie.” What-
_ musicals ove musicals. “peas! over that means, I guess it’s relevant.
ballet, things like Oklahoma. But sasanaaiasaladuioe al " : si aiadailin
these Goddam kids won't come to : :

these things. Show The Great Springs Entertainers Show
Escape and you can’t get ’em all in. . 2 .

Try The Red Shoes and nobody Definite Contrast in Style
comes, but I like musicals. I paid (Continued from page 1)
$4.80 for a reserved seat just to see

trast in mood. Chuck Berry, who
not only sings but is also the writer
of many of his songs, such as Roll
Over Beethoven, Memphis, and Surf-
in’, U.S.A., is known for a strong,
hard-moving sound.

Mary Wells, comparison, has
aimed for a quieter tone in songs
like Two Lovers, The One Who Real-
ly Loves You, My Guy, and Laugh-

My Fair Lady in New York. I can’t
et 90c for it in Lexington if I try.”

Mr. Side went on to say that he
feels that boys are just as sensi-
tive now as ever, even though they
rely on others for their opinions. He

id they seem to react to sex mov-
ies about the same as they used to
so he doesn’t think sex is changing.

by

sowever, Mr. Side laments the ing Boy, all of which have met with
passing of the flick team. The aver-
age attendance is the same, but the Great a Oe the past few
old spirit is gone. As we were talk- — :
ing a little kid rode up on a bicycle} Dionne Warwick's songs and de-|
and stopped to listen. After he lis- livery have been described as “high-|
|

ly sensitive”, and in turn present a

 

 

tened a few minutes he shook his

head and rode off, and as he dis-| Very different mood from the other

appeared Mr. Side said, “That little} *W% 4S her albums describe mt,

kid is my most regular customer “mood music without strings.

and he doesn’t even know what}

W&L is and probably won't until NOTICE |
|

The Publications Board will select
editors and business managers for the
Ring-tum Phi and Southern Collegian
for next year at 7 p.m. on Tuesday
April 27. Interested students are in-
vited to present their qualifications to
the board.

Rake ié

SUN,

they make a flick about it.”
The W&L flick team is gone, and
the W&L man has given up his slot

to a townie kid. We are not any

marter or more diseriminating than

STATE

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VA. | ROBART 3-9424

 

LAST TIMES TUESDAY - MON. - TUES.

BERGMAN “=
&QUINN “THe
cronscore | VISIT

 

 

 

 

 

TECHNICOLOR’ "= UN'TED ARTISTS

ee 6 te SE |

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘| Committee

 

YOU CAN EARN UP TO 14 HOURS OF
COLLEGE CREDIT WHILE

STUDYING =
THIS SUMMER

IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL
AT THE GEORGE |
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY

  

they're
d
must

A program designed to make
the unparalleled resources of
Washington, D.C. available to
students in other colleges and
universities.

|
j
JUNE 14-JULY 21 |
i
j
|

 

JULY 22-AUGUST 27

@ Special J-week workshops in
Education begin June 14,
July 6, and July 26

@ Air-conditioned classrooms,
library and residence hall

@ Urban campus just four
blocks from the White House

write for catalogue:
Dean of the
Lummer Setionas
The Georges
Washivgton
University
Washington, 0.C.

a.

Wie
EViit

if Levit ney fe
{0 wear

   
    

 

 

t your
ihe pants
a9

Leggett’s

‘rhe George

Washington
University

Brownell Gives
Contact Report:

(Continued from page 2)

feel it is) then this is the least we
can do.

The Chairman is fully convinced,
although he speaks for no one but
himself, that the fraternity system at
Washington and Lee has proved det-
rimental to the intellectual atmos-
phere at this university because it
tends to stifle enthusiasm for non-
social pursuits. It is evident to him
that fraternities at Washington and
Lee will cease to exist as fraternities
unless they themselves take action
in the near future to re-evaluate
their situation and correct its glaring
defects. It seems to the Steering
that the Interfraternity
Council is the logical body in which
this re-evaluation can take place, and

/in which constructive changes can

be initiated. It is our feeling that
CONTACT is an integral part of this
change for the better because it
is oriented in the right direction.
The Steering Committee will rec-
ommend to the Judicial Board of the
Inter-fraternity Council changes in
the structure and character of CON-
TACT will be given the chance to

serve, and that any suggestion, high-

jly critical or otherwise, will be
greatfully received.
The staff of the Friday edition of

the Ring-tum Phi welcomes with open
arms: Jenny, Mary Ann, Karen A.,
Fricka, and Karen F. to W&L for
this 1965 Springs Weekend.

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as second class matter September 20, 1946 at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878.

SHANNON JUNK RICHARD CARRELL
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager

EDITORIAL BOARD
Ken McGraw, Billy Cannon........ ‘
Blaine Ewing, Sam McChesney

Managing Editors
Assistant Managing Editors

   

  

I Be aacsia tas acte si cta tein tectersninisssinsisviisesivrstinesnatvcsinnunasiiavinnnenaneatl News Editor
I gins te cciennshatsesvdsiatninsvncsrvevervonnactvicnniinn ssistant News Editor
I ari inten innrnrmadiatees Sports Editor
I TS raisncsctsscsrctssstsencsnssscinsicnnsrnnntnnrsnsnisincainnsistienons © U ntnbanieid Photography Editor
A I, FI Bis iaiiccriccsstisissisncrecrnsiosarersinseeinannanrinsions Associate Editors
I I iiss ccte cs eeeesseenrovensosnisorrrirrnseionensasrinieensabisrnennisntennansee Cartoonist

BaP MAAR BOP sisrserssersesesssssessvsssssreesersssnesereee seseoronnsnentenvnenes Jim Redenbaugh

I IE sisscsscssiarttssiersesresanernvavronivss Randy Chitwood, Bob Priddy
Advertising Managers Jeff Bridges, George Madison

 

ieee John Wolfe, Al Byrne

Rider Talks With Proud Mother

(Continued from page 2)

Office Managers

 

look like a college. Washington and

Lee is just darling.”

“What will the lad major in?”)  , “
aed 21 isitivel It most certainly is that.
= re egion “Thank you again you nice stu-
“We haven't really decided for| . : we os
Mite ek Weed fe. cate ees oo we| dent you. | know Fred Jr. will have

thought that either Commerce or \a lovely time at such a pretty place.”

Philosophy would prepare little Fred
to carry on the family trade.”
“T see. Have you looked at any
other schools?”
“Oh my, yes. But of all the schools
we've seen we think that Washing-|
ton and Lee is the cutest

if Fred |
Jr. is going to go to college it should}

| eeemeneenencocnoonnsnees
|

HICKMAN’S  _ESSO

on

US. 11 SOUTH

Sebo te steeds she oho ofo afe fone of oho ale ole fo ofe she ole abe fe oleae of
LEE LEE EE ESE ERE eeT

ROBERT E. LEE

BARBERSHOP

 

Waggy’s Jewelers |

35 S. Main St.
Phone HO 3-4121

Keepsake Diamond Rings
Modern repair department

 

% OPEN from 8:00-5:30

 

 

te
fe
te
:
2

 

| é ;
‘Netmen Shut Out in Meet
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college |

A gainstToughCompetition
(Continued from page 3)

feated Jim DeYoung, 6-3, and Notre
Dame won 9-0.

Georgetown was Washington and
Lee’s first opponent in the tourney
and the Hoyas were 8-1 victors with
the only General victory coming
from senior Randy Jones. Jones was
also a winner against George Wash-
ington as W&L lost 6-3. Howard
Busse also took a victory with the
final W&L win coming in one of
the doubles matches.

This year’s tournament was marr
ed by rain. Monday’s first round
competition had to be postponed be-
cause of rain, with each team play-
ing two matches on Tuesday.

In taking part in the Cherry Blos-
som Tournament, W&L was compet-
ing against big time opposition.
Champion Notre Dame just recently
returned from a ten-day visit to
Mexico City and has played against
Indiana, Cincinnati, and Ohio State
George Washington annually is one
of the top contenders for the South-
ern Conference crown while George-
town is considered one of the top
independent schools in the east.

The Generals racketmen next se
action Tuesday when they will faée
tandolph-Macon in a 3:15 meet here.

 

TO ALL DATES

Have a good springs weekend-

Phantom.
Shirt Service as You Like It

r ee ly
|
j

—The

¥s-

    

  

2 Bring Your Complete Laundry
‘ to Us

Quality Cleaning and Pressia
UNIVERSITY

CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*

“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

  

SS BESS Sk vi Lee Beeee

 

 

 

 

A message of importance to sophomore men

if you've got what it takes
to be an Army Officer
you may qualify for this new

on-campus training program

A new Army ROTC program starts this

coming Summer for sophomore men who apply
prior to May 1—only 3,000 applicants to be accepted

If you're a sophomore now attending one of the 247 colleges and universities that
offer Army Officer training—or you plan to transfer to one of these schools next
Fall—you may qualify for the new two-year Army ROTC program.

This new program—designed especially for college men who have not taken
Army ROTC during their first two years— will commence with six weeks of
field training this coming Summer, beginning June 14. Then you'll have
on-campus training during your junior year . . . six additional weeks at camp
during the following Summer . . . and more on-campus training during your

senior year. Even flight training is offered at some schools.

abroad with opportunities for travel.

opportunity. Ask him to describe this new short program in

opportunity is right for them.

if you ood enough to be an Army Officer,
don't satis

ROTC training is really a process of learning to organize and direct others—

to be a leader. Consider how important this ability can be to you throughout life;
yet, to acquire it you will spend relatively little time in the ROTC classroom.
You'll obtain valuable junior management experience . . . a fuller and richer
campus life . . . extra spending money ($40 per month during your junior

and senior school years, and even more during Summer training) . . . and,

when you graduate, an Army Officer's commission as Second Lieutenant.

Then you'll normally spend two interesting years on active duty, often

Talk to the Professor of Military Science on your campus about this

Or send in the coupon below for complete information. There's no obligation
involved, and you'll not be subjected to any “hard sell” recruiting effort.
The kind of men the Army wants can decide for themselves if this new

for less. Sign up now for Army ROTC. '

detail.

ti

 

is no obligation involved.
Name

College or University,
Zip Code.

 

Send in this coupen for mere information on this new
U.S. Army ROTC, Post Office Box 104, Westbury, New York 11601
Please send me comp/ete Inform@tion on the new two-year Army ROTC program. | understand there

wm ARMY
ROTC

| expect to complete my sophomore year on.
While | am not now attending @ school that offers Army ROTC training, | am planning to attend the following
school that does next Fall: Coflege or University:

Army Officer training program.

City,

Re

 

The Washington & Lee Department of Military Science

has announced that the two year program will not be adopted

at W&L.

 

c.3as8

—< A le a
