I» It

 "'  utv.‘».'it¢!é£ll"~

¢7ke ecctcamt mactqme Women's swimming

¢a1tea‘t1>at.=I=.st..s 9 has pelfect week 6

Chi: ‘iﬁing-tum Iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

45

VOLUME/96, N0- 11 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA JANUARY 19, 1996

Ramos reinstated;

Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

A treacherous beauty, snow covered Lexington earlier this month. The Blizzard of 1996 stranded travelers, closed
schools, and delayed ﬂights...not to mention cancelled classes. See related story on page 2.

New exhibit proves photography is art

BY EDYE POECKER
Phi Staff Writer

When most people think of an art exhibit, they
imagine that it displays painting or sculptures.
However, the new exhibit in the DuPont Hall

gallery proves that photography can be just as artistic
and creative as most conventional conceptions of art.
The DuPont exhibit features the works of three
Virginia photographers.
One of the contributers is Washington and Lee
alumnus and current Annual Fund director Peter
Cronin. Cronin’s black and white photographs de-

pict local landscapes, including the Shenandoah
National Park, and landscapes of the California coast.
Radford University art professor James Knipe
trained as a sculptor and as a painter before he traded
in his chisel and paintbrush for a camera. His local
landscape photography has been displayed through-

out the country.
Susan Bidwell’s

black and white ab-

Reaching for the stars

stract photography of
everyday objects has
been displayed in
shows throughout Vir-
ginia and North Caro-
lina. Herwork has also
appeared in the New
York art journal en-
titled Manhattan Arts
International.

' The exhibit will re-
main on campus until
February 9.

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Lexington police officer Mark
Ramos returned to work Monday, even
though he has not yet been cleared of
assault and battery charges stemming
from the arrest of third-year Washing-
ton and Lee law student Shelby Katz.

Chief Bruce Beard reinstated Ramos
after reviewing the results of a two
month investigation conducted by the
Virginia State Police.

Beard concluded that Ramos did
not use excessive force and followed
all departmental procedures during
Katz’s arrest on October 28.

Ramos charged Katz with having
an open alcohol container on a public

charges not dropped

street, being drunk in public, and re-
sisting arrest.

On November 15, Katz filed assault
and battery charges against Ramos.
She claimed that he used excessive
force during her arrest.

Ramos was suspended from the
department with pay on November
17, pending the outcome of the
investigation.

Chief Beard refused to say whether
Ramos would be allowed to continue
working on the force if he is convicted
of the charges.

Katz declined to comment; Ramos
was unavailable.

Katz and Ramos were scheduled to
stand trial at the Rockbridge General
District Court on January 12. How-
ever, the weather caused the court date
to be pushed back to February 9.

Freshmen faring Well
with fall term grades

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

The report cards from Fall Term
1995 may indicate one of the strongest
freshmen classes in years, according to
Dean of Freshmen Dennis Manning.

“The grades indicate that the
freshmen have adjusted well,” said
Manning. '

Only eight members of the class of
1999 earned a grade point average be-
low 1.5, the probationary GPA for first
year students, as compared to 14 stu-
dents last year.

Manning also indi-
cated that the retention
rate among freshmen
has been higher than in
previous years.

In addition, frater-
nities have an espe-
cially good reason to
be proud of their
pledges.

“With the con-
densed fall pledge pe-
riod, the grades were
higher than we had an-
ticipated,” said Dean
of Students David
Howison.

A lambda Chi Alpha
pledges topped the list
with an average GPA
of 3.360 with Sigma
Phi Epsilon pledges
earning second place
with a GPA of 2.990.
Chi Psi was third with
a GPA of 2.900.

Because of the de-
cision to move frater-
nity Rush to the win-
ter, academic expecta-
tions for freshman of
the Class of 2000 are
on the rise.

Dean of Greek Affair, Buddy Atkins,
expects that next year’s freshmen might
surpass their predecessors with Rush
scheduled for the winter.

“They will achieve as well or better
with lower anxiety levels,” said Atkins.

Overall, ChiOmega was ﬁrstamong
all Greek organizations with a GPA of
3.209 followed by Lambda Chi (3.191),
and Kappa Alpha Theta (3.171). Sig
Ep won second place among fraterni-
ties with a GPA of 3.123.

Howison was happy to report that
Fall term grades showed ‘nothing
irregular.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Professors to make the
call on make-up classes

President Elrod agreed with the Committee.

A aw»

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The sisters of Chi Omega prepare for Pref Night by decorating the Fairfax Lounge on Thursday.

BY DANIELLE BURGHARDT
M Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students do not have to
make up the snow days, unless their professors
say so.

With more than 30 inches of snow and students
stranded everywhere but Lexington, classes did not
begin until Wednesday.

Dean Larry Peppers, Chair of the Faculty Execu-
tive Committee, said that there will be no formal
make up classes. Instead, the decision will be left up
to the individual faculty members.

The Committee met Monday to discuss the
semester’s slow start.

“The Faculty Executive Committee was asked
by the President to consider this issue, and we made
our recommendation to him,” Dean Peppers said.

Peppers plans to make up the lost time in his
Tuesday—Thursday class. Although he normally
needs an hour and a half of the two-hour time, he
plans to use the extra half—hour two or three times to
make up for the one missed class.

Professor of Sociology David Novack said that
he learned of the Committee’s decision Wednes-
day morning.

‘‘I think that their primary concern is in the area of
natural sciences, because there are labs. If you lose
a lab, you literally lose the equivalent of a week,”
Novack said.

Novack also said that he plans to use less intro-
duction time than he normally would.

W&L students will also miss classes the first
Friday in March for Mock Convention.

“Losing class that Friday is unfortunate, but I
think the benefits of Mock Convention certainly
outweigh the lost time we would have,”said Novack.

The Ring-tum Phi. Januarv 19. 1996 1
NEWS A j

 

BEYOND

 

' THE BLUE RIDGE

Mitterand illness sparks

debate on impeachment 9

Paris, France—Questions have arisen this week concerning whether or
not the French Constitutional Court should gain the right to impeach a
president. The debate is following the publication of a book by former
French President Francois Mitterand’s private physician, Claude Gubler,
in which he reveals that Mitterand suffered from severe cancer for more
than a decade of his presidency. Gubler, who is being sued for violating
the code of patient privacy by Mitterand’s family, asserts that the President
was so ill that he was incapable of fulfilling the duties of the presidency for
the last six months of his last term. This report is being vehemently denied
by others who worked with the former President, who died last week of
cancen

Government agencies face

shutdowns, budget cuts

Washington, D.C.——Several federal agencies which recently reopened
following the latest government shutdown are planning for the possibility
of another shutdown on January 26, when many will run out of spending
authority. By operating on limited reserve funds and sharply reducing all
but necessary daily operations, agencies like the Department of Health and
Human Services and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion have been able to pay some ofthe many bills which went unpaid during
the shutdown. However, they are running out ofmoney and will likely have
to cut or shorten many important programs. Although many agencies have
received approval for funding through the end of the ﬁscal year, some
facing the January 26 cutoff fear that they could face very serious
reductions in operations if GOP budget cuts go according to plans.

Hillary Clinton uses book

tour to deny Whitewater

Washington, D.C.— First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton used her new
book’s publicity tour to deny continued allegations of wrongdoing con-
cerning her roles in the Whitewater and Travelgate affairs. Promoters of
her book, entitled It Takes a Village, have sent Clinton on a nationwide
press tour where she's faced reporters more interested in the scandals than
her writings. In her effort to dispel the allegations, which have recently
inspired a drop in her popularity ratings, Mrs. Clinton hinted that she might
even be willing to testify before the Senate lnvestigation Committee on
Whitewater, although as yet she has not volunteered to do so.

Baseball owners vote on

interleague play proposal

Los Angeles, CA—Baseba|l owners who are conducting quartcrly~

meetings this week hope to vote on a proposal for interleague play during
the regular season. Supporters of the proposal say that this change could
improve baseball’s popularity among fans, as well as increase ratings for
television networks. interleague play could be up for vote Thursday before
a meeting of all the owners, and would need 21 of 28 votes for approval.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

 

GOP WATCH

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Forbes’ advertising blitz

shows results in Iowa polls

A recent poll taken in Iowa shows that Steve Forbes has significantly cut
into front runner Bob Dole’s lead. Although Dole is still maintaining a
large lead, many analysts believe that his chances of losing are growing as
Forbes’ popularity continues to surge. Forbes’ strong showing in the poll
is a direct result of his advertising bombardment ofthe state. Since Forbes
is not receiving any federal election funds he is not subject to the spending
limits that constrain other candidates. But political observers are warning

  W&L husband and

Blizzard of ’96 hits Lexington * 

BY Cmmrs YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

The Blizzard of ’96, now a, phrase reserved for gas station tee-shirts (of the “I
survived...” variety) and meterological records, was not without major impact
both on the W&L campus and within the greater Lexington community over the
past week.

The largest snow storm of several decades, last week’s blizzard caused classes
to resume at Washington and Lee a full two days later than was planned.

Such a delayed opening is singularly rare for W&L, and was indeed “the fourth
time school has been cancelled in 30 years,” as will attest James Arthur.

Arthur, Director of Build-
ings and Grounds here on cam-
pus, describes the vigor with
which B&G employees fought
the weather across campus:
“We had people working
around the clock, from Satur-
day to Wednesday, to remove
the snow.”

While snow removal is after
all a task common (although
not to this season’s extent) ev-
ery winter at W&L, this year’s
removal process varied in sev-
eral distinct ways from that of
any other year.

Arthur explains that 1996
was “the first time we have ever
setup housingin Gaines [Hall]”
for those employees who could
not risk the trip back and forth
over the weekend.  ' “°" '

Anotherdifferencelies in the
fact that Evans Dining Hall this
year provided B&G employ-
ees with food during their

  

to school by Monday, January 8, originally scheduled as the first day of Winter
Term 1996. '

Phone calls from students who were trapped under snow drifts or whose ﬂights
were cancelled flooded W&L’s administrative offices, and whether convinced
more by these calls or the weather itself, school officials ultimately declared
Washington and Lee closed until the Wednesday of last week.

Students in the meantime whiled away the long hours during which the
weekend’s heavy snow prevented travel, some in the comfort of their own
apartments and houses, some in their dorms, and some stuck in hotel rooms
miles away.

The W&L campus was hardly the only party affected by last weekend’s
blizzard, however; members of the Rockbridge County community also felt the
impact of the storm.

One area of the county di-
rectly affected by the weather
was that of the stores, most of
which were closed during the
thick ofthe storm only to re-open
with droves of customers.

Laura Davis, an associate of
Wal-Mart,declines to discuss any
particulars aboutthe store’s sales,

good sales in toys and sleds.”

A manager of Harris Teeter
likewise describes the grocery
store’s business as “really, really
busy” during the snowy week-
end. Similarly avoiding specif-
ics, the manager nonetheless
stresses that the crowds were
“worse than [during] Christmas.”

As manager of Domino’s
Pizza, meanwhile, Rick Ficken
also recalls “a good amount of
sales,” especially during the in-
terval in which Domino’s and
HarrisTeeterweretheonly stores
open in downtown Lexington.

 

campus stay.

Thus providedwith food and
lodging, all B&G crew mem-
bers—plumbers,carpenters and
custodians alike—worked in
shifts and overtime to prevent much accumulation of snow, and Arthur speaks
for the entire crew in saying,“ We’re pleased at our success at getting the
snow removed.”

As well as the snow may have been removed from the sidewalks and
crossways of W&L’s campus, however, its presence upon the roads and backroads
of Rockbridge County and beyond proved too much for many students to return

Old man winter marks his territory once again.

Ficken estimates that his busi-
ness did in fact suffer due to the
storm, however, explaining that
his delivery service was out for
two and a half days.

Once reopened, “business did very much increase in the days that people could
get to their cars,” Kroger manager Mike Blanks affirms as well.

While traces and tee-shirts of the “Blizzard of ’96" have not yet disappeared,
and the trek to and from class still merits warm boots and Chapstick, the worst
of the storm is long over, and Lexington has now become once again a booming
Main Street community.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

wife team to teach,
research in Europe

From Phi Staff Reports

Lawrence M. Lamont, professor of administration at
Washington and Lee University, and Anne Schroer-Lamont,
associate dean of students at W&L, are spending the winter
and spring in Oslo,’ Norway. ‘ ‘ ’ » " »

Lamont has joined the international faculty of the Nor-
wegian School of Management, the second largest institu-
tion of higher education in Norway, where he will teach
marketing, advise students, and conduct research.

Schroer-Lamont accepted a position as scholar-in-resi-
dence at the Center for Research on Women at the Univer-
sity of Oslo. She will join researchers from around the world
and will share her findings from a 10-year study on the
career decision-making ofgifted young women from Wash-
ington and Lee.

In her study, Schroer-Lamont has been recording the
changing patterns of future educational, career, and family
planning goals of several hundred W&L alumni. Her goal
is to contribute to the establishment of a theory of career
development for gifted women.

Following their stay in Oslo, the pair will travel to
Warsaw, Poland, to attend an international educator’s con-
ference where Lamont will present his recent research on the
teachings of marketing. Later they will travel to Russia and
eastern and western Europe, visiting research centers in
their respective fields.

Lamont received the B.S., M.B.A., and Ph.D. degrees
from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty at
Washington and Lee in 1974 as an associate professor and
was named a- full professor in 1981.

Schroer-Lamont joined the administration and counsel-
ing staff at Washington and Lee in 1985. She received her
B.A. from Defiance College, her M.A. from Washington

They're seeing spots!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

State University, and her Ph.D. from the University of
Northern Colorado.

Amidst a sea of blue tape, the Kappa Alpha Thetas prepare for Rush.

but allows that the store “did have .

Freshman males initiated

BY MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

Despite concerns about hazing, fraternities initiated their pledges this past
weekend. Under the guidelines passed last year by the Interfraternity Council,
freshmen males must be initiated by the first week of the term.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said under IFC bylaws,
freshmen should have been initiated last Saturday. An anonymous letter by a
parent raised rumors about possible fraternity hazing.

In response, President John Elrod called a meeting last Wednesday with IFC
and fraternity presidents. Atkins said the purpose of the meeting was to remind
them to not haze and get their pledges initiated that weekend.

“There is not supposed to be any hell week,” he said. “lnitiation week is
supposed to be for initiation and not for any foolishness.”

IFC president Ryan Connolly said all freshmen pledges were initiated this
weekend and has heard of no violations or hazing incidents.

 

 
    
     
   
             
   

WEEKLY
INCME

processing mail tor
  national company! Free
au plies. postage! No
  an ling! Bonuses! Start
  immediate!  Genuine
opportunity! §1SA.S.E.*

  

 

L*:::::::.%.".:;;°;:§.§2:}:?::.:.:%:.‘::;;::::::::;5:.:‘::,::::.:t:::?:%:.3::::   ct-re, sures 216 “‘
many believethatitwillbedrtfrculttoforhrmtotransferhispopularrtyinto . 
caucus votes.  8 6  N .  G
  0LLYHO0D.FI. 3302 "
GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp
Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor ,;(

Jenna Cowles and Dana Hood prepare Pi Phi for Rush.

 

 

W

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996

tlxe eFFi.c'Lev\t vv\.acl~'Lv\e

pi|<5bO|US

 

Page 3

tion.

calleel

dia,” and Kent Lindemer’s and John Mario-Sevilla’s

By Lisa Brunciage
Guest: Writer for the Phi

Martha Graham said that bodies can’t lie. Perhaps
that is why Pilobolus’ audience members are so awe-
struck. ‘

Pilobolus’ dancers, who brought their unique
acrobatic dance to the Lenfest Centeron Tuesday and
Wednesday nights, bend, shape and throw their bod-
ies in unimaginable feats that seem to defy all the
laws of physics.

Pilobolus Dance Theatre is the brainchild of Moses .

Pendleton and Jonathon Wolken. The pair founded
the company in 1971 after meeting in a dance class at
Dartmouth College. Since that time, the group has
gained and continues to enjoy world-wide recogni-

The program shown at Lenfest was a retrospec-
tive of works covering the company’s 25 year his-
tory. In the five pieces presented Pilobolus demon-
strated not only physical prowess but miraculous
artistry.

Dancers swung like pendulums, turned somer-
saults through each other, jumped, lifted and all out
suspended themselves in mid-air. So seamless were
the motions that the boundaries that normally exist
between people completely vanished. Each dancer
became part of the efficient machine called Pilobolus.

The inventive choreography kept Pilobolus’ ab-
stractions from being too esoteric, and it seemed that
even the large members of children within the audi-
ence appreciated the group’s efforts.

The repertoire the company presented varied from

‘ the comical “Walklyndon” (1971), straight from the

Ministry of Silly Walks, to the stunning drama of
Rebecca Anderson’s pasd’un(e)entitled“Pseudopo-

duet “Pyramid of the Moon.”

Nothing, however, could have prepared the audi-
ence for the amazing ending of the program.

“Day Two” featured some of the most innovative
props used in dance. Poles were used to suspend and‘
support dancers before the flooring itself undulated
beneath their feet. Soon, however, it was the dancers
themselves who vacillated underneath the ﬂoor cov-
ering, before reemerging before a standing ovation to
remind everyone how much fun Slip ‘n’ Slides are.

Pilobolus is ultimately a true testimony to the
human spirit, not only by testing the bounds of
physical capability within an aesthetic framework,
but by giving the art-of dance accessibility.

E ditor ’s Note: Lisa Brundage is currently a sopho-
more atMary Washington College, in F redericksburg,
Virginia, where she is enrolled in both English litera-
ture courses and dance classes.

Michael Hewlett
Phi Staff lVriter

Isn’t life weird? First, President Bill
Clinton forgets to inhale; now, we are wait-
ing to exhale. The movie “Waiting to Ex-
hale” has finally arrived, and groups of
women have packed the house to see this
movie about their lives, their fears, and their
hopes. t
The movie was inspired by Terry
McMillan’s best-selling book of the same

V ‘K name, which was based on the experiences

of the author and her circle of friends. The
book focuses on the trials and tribulations of
four black women.

One such woman, Savannah is a single
public relations executive who moves to
Phoenix, Arizona, because she cannot find a
decent man in Detroit.

Another, Bernadine, finds out on New
Years Eve that her husband is leaving her for
a white woman. Never underestimate the
rage of a scorned woman because she pro-
ceeds to clean out her anal husband’s closet,
pile his belongings in his car, and light a
match to them. Ouch!

Robin, meanwhile, is a successful insur-

wrong men. Although she is intelligent in other
areas of her life, she loses all common sense
when it, comes to the male species.

Finally, Gloria is a single mother who runs
a stylish salon and tries to raise her decent but
increasingly difficult son. At the same time, she
waits for the perfect man while feeling self-
conscious about her weight.

Here you have four black sisters struggling
to find a man who can '
satisfy them emotion-
ally, physically and in-
tellectually. In the
course of one year,
these women see a se-
ries of brutish men
come in and out of
theirlives. They cling
to each other to get
through the rough
times.

Some have argued that this book is a general
bashing of black males. Those arguments fall
flat, however, when one reads the book.
McMillan simply and eloquently relates the
experiences of black women in American soci-
ety.

Furthermore, the reader is always reminded
that not all black men are dogs (which serves as

Terry McMillan's tioole is
a realistic portrayal of
the sometimes hostile

worlal of lwlacle male-

female relationships

to exhale

 

Exhale is ultimately about the relationships that
black women, and women in general, build
among themselves and the bonds they share
with each other.

I laughed with them. I felt their pain and
their desperation. They spoke to me in a direct
personal way, reminding me of my mother, my
cousin, my aunt, and every black woman I have
ever met. .

My only criticism
was the sometimes
cavalier attitude to-
ward adultery with
married men. At least
three ofthe four char-
acters get themselves
involved with married
men. But, in another
way, these indiscre-
tions show the reader
that these women are
not angels; they are humans and as much at fault
for choosing the men they allow in their lives as
the men themselves.

This is a realistic portrayal ofthe sometimes
hostile world of black male/female relation-
ships. McMillan writes from the heart with
honesty and sensitivity. Her novel brings to life
the songs of black women’s voices and experi-

 

ance professional who always attracts the

reassurance for this reviewer).

Waiting to ences so the whole world can listen and learn.

 

I{irle Susong
Phi Reviewer

The typical time travel film involves some pretty basic criteria: the lead
running into his younger self, the actors working to avert some tragedy and
‘change the future,’ and the time travelers blending into their surroundings to
avoid capture.

Twelve Monkeys takes these normal parts ofa time traveling movie and subtly
changes each ofthem, altering them just enough to make the film innovative yet
still a mainstream hit. And largely, it works. _

The film’s premise? In the year 1996, a deadly virus breaks out around the
world, mysteriously killing ﬁve billion people; mankind is forced to ﬂee
underground to save itself. But we humans are none too happy in the dark, grimy,
industrial caves below the surface. So the government decides to send convicted
criminal James Cole (Bruce Willis) back to the year of the outbreak - but not to
change history, since that can’t be undone. Rather, they simply want him to locate
the source ofthe pure virus, so that scientists can create a vaccine for it. Then man
could safely return to the surface of the earth.

At this point Willis makes the same mistake it seems every time traveler does.
(I vow that if] ever travel back in time the last thing I will do is to tell people I

am from the future, since they would think l was a complete loon. Why do they
always make this mistake?) At any rate, Willis shoots his mouth off and is
promptly taken to a psychiatric hospital, where he spends his time drooling.

More importantly, he meets fellow inmate Jeffrey Goines (Brad Pitt), and also
the kindly Dr. Kathryn Railly, played by Madeline Stowe (Last of the Mohicans).
Needless to say, they become an intricate part of his planning as well as of the
plot’s eventual resolution.

The real strength ofthis film is the intricate plot, and the many twists and turns
it takes. Thanks to time travel, you are never absolutely positive what is going
on, or who knows what. And since the film states early on that the future is
unchangeable only to a certain point, it makes the resolution of the plot all the
more interesting and unpredictable.

But as always occurs in science fiction or fantasy films, the unique features of
Twelve Monkeys’ world aren’t perfectly developed. There are a number of
questions which are left unresolved, and several of the characters’ actions don’t
necessarily make sense. For example, ifthe future is truly unchangablc, then why
does Jose give Cole a gun? is there any significance to the fact that the scientist
always says she is in “insurance” at the film’s end? But though these distractions
are disquieting, they also ultimately serve to illustrate the thought-provoking
nature of the film.

Brad Pitt takes a lot of criticism for being a beef-cake poster boy. but I think
this film will go a long way towards proving his critics wrong. Pitt brittgs to his
role as Jeffrey Goines a sort ofscary sanity reminiscent oflack Nicltolsun in (me
Flew Over the Cuckoo ’s Nest; sometimes it’s difficult to decide if the chat 1lL'lL‘r.\‘

::l?°- Army of 12 Monkys Marches
 Across the Silver Screen

are sane people who love the freedom ‘insanity’ brings or if they really are crazy.
The other members of the cast also perform admirably; it’s particularly good to
see Bruce Willis continue to expand his repertoire.

So what bothered me about this ﬁlm, besides the aforementioned inconsisten-
cies? One, the script is rather uneven. Writers David and Janet Peoples (the
former being known for Unforgiven and Blade Runner) seem only to have
sketched out some of the more interesting parts ofthe film, and let the rest ofthe
plot development be filled in by apprentices.

For example, the question of time travel is well addressed. But when the
‘everyday’ business of finding the virus begins, the script quicly loses its
cleverness. When Cole and Railly are searching for the Army ofthe 12 Monkeys,
they simply follow a trail of paint to the headquarters! That seems more
appropriate to a Charlie Chan radio serial than a multi-layered film about the
complexities of sanity and time.

l also found myself quickly tiring of Terry Gilliam’s directorial vision. The
former Monty Python member and director ofBrazil and The Fisher King takes
:1 dark and slightly paranoid view ofthe future which quickly becomes tiresome‘
- afterall, this film isn’t 1984 and shouldn’t get too involved with that sort ofpost-
industrial, urban grime picture.

Overall, Twelve Monkeys is an above average picture. It raises and explores
interesting questions about destiny, sanity and memory, all within the context of
:1 plausible plot and compelling characters. Although there are a few loose ends
here and there, Terry Gilliam’s dark vision is well-filmed and entertaining. And
really, what more can we ask for from a film‘?

 

    

PAGE 4

Ella: ilting-‘tum Elﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

You look fabulous

Perhaps the most fascinating feature about
Sorority Rush (minus the singing and clapping
girls) is the veritable fashion lollapalooza that
overruns our campus for one cold week in
January.

Yes, it’s time again for Lexington’s own Pret-
a-Porter and you’re invited.

From the Colonnade to the University Center,
the women of Vogue and Cosmopolitan have
stepped off their magazine’s pages and into our
lives.

Everywhere you turn it’s a bazaar of winter
fashion. A-line skirts in classic black accom-
pany form-fitting charcoal sweaters. Tasteful
brown turtles, cream-colored tights, and sen-
sible shoes adorn virtually all W&L women.

Labels, labels, darling, it’s all about labels.
Anne Klein, Ann Taylor, Todd Oldham. It’s not
who you are, it’s what you wear. Evidently, it’s
an absolutely fabulous campus—if only Patsy
and Edina were here!

Never mind the ridiculous decorations that
overwhelm Fairfax Lounge and the Game
Room. They look more like the runways of
New York, Paris, and Milan.

Yesterday somebodytthought they saw the
film crew of MTV’s House of Style gathering
footage for their college edition.

Time to put away those tattered Gap jeans and
over—sized J. Crew sweaters, ladies! Grab those
Kenneth Cole shoes and that funky mod squad
dress you found in that boutique on Rodeo.
That’s right, honey, Kate Moss ain’t got nothing
on you.

Style, poise, and elegance are this week’s
buzz words. Diet Coke and rice cakes in hand,
sorority wom,e_r1,:,;,i,r1 haute couture, have revolu-
tionized W&L’s fashion scene.

Guys take a look! After this weekend it’s
back to the frumpy casual wear of crunchy
comfort —- so tired, so old, so three years ago!

Who cares about the snow on the ground?
Check out those glammin’ women. Hot, hot,
hot. So what if it is gloomy and gray outside?
This week’s explosive excitement is inside.

They may call us snotty, shallow, and superfi-
cial. Maybe they’re right. But don’t despair,
darling, because, as Billy Crystal would say,
you looook mahvelous.

Quote of the Week

“That’s what Rush is all about.”

—A Kappa Alpha Theta on the thousands of
pieces of blue tape used to
attach decorations to the wall

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996

         

'-V?

  
   
     

I  tl 3l.«_;'lE M;

‘M 

, um
. .5 ' F‘ i i I ,‘ HF’
I __  V.‘  H t as‘ -_ - .

“ Imuelekkamkk-Er

End of Racism : old issue, new debate

MY VIEW

Joshua Heslinga

Over the past several weeks, a dis-
cussion has been raging on Washing-
ton and Lee’s campus about the nature
of racism and multiculturalism.

One of the most unfortunate things
about such discussions, as they are
commonly held, is that both sides seem
just to rail against the other, repeating
mantras about affirmative action and
multiculturalism without much com-
prehension or substantial reasoning.
The arguments in such discussions are
frequently constricted and hardly ever
supported in detail.

A few months ago, a book was
published that attempted to change the
nature of the discussion of racism in
America. You’ve probably ,heard the
many outraged liberal denunciations
of this book. I’m referring to The End
ofRacism by Dinesh D’Souza.

I bought D’Souza’s book partly
because I figured that if it had drawn
such condemnation from the en-
trenched liberal civil rights establish-
ment, it probably had more than a
grain of truth to it. I now believe that
The End ofRacism is one of the best
books on culture and public policy I
have ever read. It is exhaustively re-
searched and extensive in its explora-
tion of racism’s history, scathing in its
treatment of those who stand in the
way of real solutions, and painfully
probing in searching out contempo-
rary cultural pathologies and prescrib-
ing remedies for them.

D’Souza provides an in depth look
at the origins of the modern liberal
commitment to group equality and pro-
portional representation, ideas that
have become gospel without any seri-
ous reasoned support. He charges that

while the early sociological commit-
ment to cultural relativism served to
fightthe entrenched racism ofthe early
20th century, it has now become a
major obstacle toward finding serious
solutions to contemporary attitudes.

D’Souza presents the central di-
lemma for liberals clearly. By nearly
all means of measurement, American
attitudes toward race have undergone
a remarkable transformation that now
shows little or no explicit racism. Yet
liberals have been puzzled as to why a
reliance on merit has not produced a
greater change in black achievement.
In response, they have devised a dubi-
ous and unsupported concept of insti-
tutional and implicit racism that ig-
nores any pretenses offairness or merit
and relies on explicit racial prefer-
ences that, D’Souza alleges, “treat in-
competent individuals as competent
on account of their membership in a
fa"\Foi'e‘d3 grasp.” ‘

In addition to destroying standards
as a whole, these racial preferences
virtually concede black inferiority by
acknowledging that less qualified mi-
norities must be chosen in order to
-produce “fair” levels of achievement.

In 1993, Jack Nelson, chief of the
Los Angeles Times’ Washington bu-
reau, announced to his staffthat hence-
forth, only women and minorities
would be hired. He was asked if this
prohibition on white males amounted
to discrimination and replied: “No,it’s
affirmative action.” Similarly, Freddie
Hernandez, a black lieutenant in the
Miami fire department, stated, “We
hire 60% Hispanics here, regardless of
qualifications.”

These rigid instances of explicitly
racial preference have provoked, in
D’Souza’s words, a large white back-
lash that believes that “America does
not have a race problem but rather a
black problem.” While some of this

backlash against racial preferences is
undoubtedly expressive ofracist senti-
ments, some black Americans too are
beginning to attack affirmative action,
and most whites seek only the restora-
tion of Martin Luther King’s color-
blind standard.

However, many liberal civil rights’
activists see this as insufficient and
reject all merit-based standardized
tests, which invariably show a large
gap between white and black achieve-
ment.

These large merit gaps have led
liberal coalitions to oppose all testing
and job qualification standards as in-
herently racist. Yet D’Souza points
out that the National Academy of Sci-
ences recently concluded that these
tests in fact over predict black achieve-
ment, and even critics ofthe tests, such
as James Crouse and Dale Trusheim,
authors of The Case A gainsl the SA T,

'‘ freely admitithat the tests are, if'any-

thing, biased toward blacks.

To his great credit. D’Souza moves
beyond the pessimistic recognition of
the merit gap that is too often the
extent of contemporary debate. Con-
trary to the assertions of many of his
critics, D’Souza rejects any arguments
of the genetic inferiority of blacks,
including those proposed by Charles
Murray in his controversial book on
IQ, The Bell Curve.

Rather, he seeks to confront many
of the pathologies that destroy
achievement in black culture. He ar-
gues that having achieved formal
equality, blacks must now address
these cultural problems, which liber-
als refuse to acknowledge because it
threatens their belief in cultural rela-
tivism. These cultural problems in-
clude extraordinarily high crime rates,
the normalization of illegitimacy,
prevalent drug use, dependency on
government for help, glorification of

violence, a reliance on racism as an
excuse, and a complete “repudiation
of standard English and academic
achievement as forms of acting
white.’”

Unfortunately, the penetrating and
honest commentary that D’Souza of-
fers is hardly welcome in contempo-
rary debates over racism and
multiculturalism. As he states, the civil
rights establishment owes its contin-
ued existence to the constant unearth-
ing of allegedly racist attitudes and
practices.

Indeed, liberal blacks denounce
any serious dissent from the line of
the civil rights establishment, impugn-
ing non—black critics as racists and
invoking the dreaded Uncle Tom epi-
thet toward black conservatives.
Washington Post columnist Carl
Rowan declared: “if you give [Su-
preme Court Justice Clarence] Tho-
mas a little flour on his face, you’d
think you had David Duke.” Black
historian John Henrik Clarke sums up
this attitude, asserting that “black con-
servatives are really frustrated slaves
crawling back to the plantation.”

These inﬂammatory statements
and attitudes have been used (or over-
used) so much that they now have
only questionable effect. Controver-
sial presidential candidate Pat
Buchanan declares, “Words like rac-
ist’ have lost their power to intimi-
date. No one is cowed anymore.”

This ominously harsh rhetoric
stands as a major obstacle to reaching
the multiracial society that D’Souza
envisions. It would behoove those on
both sides of the debate (as well as
those in the vast gray area between the
two encampments) to listen to his
innovative and compelling voice, for
only when the debate becomes truly
honest and open will we be able to
achieve The End ofRacism.

@112 ilting-tum lﬂlti

   
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

Executive Editors ................................................................. ..Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Michael Hewlett
NCWS Edll0l' .............. .. Christine Ga]-navjsh
Editorial Page Editor.. ..... ..Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor ................................................................... ..Scott Bookwalter

Assistant Sports Editor .............................................. ..
Features Editor ............. ..
Photography Editor.... 
Editorial Cartoonists ............................................................. ..

....Bclhany Bauman
........ ..Cindie Young
....................... ..Betsy Green
Phil Fliekinger, Tom Fallaee

 
 
  

Business Manager ....................................................................................... ..Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager...  ..... ..Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jcnnifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription rev'enues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-(um
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail p/ti@w1u.cdu

Why can’t they just keep it to themselves?

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

I did not attend the Mock Convention Gala (and
don’t ask me to pronounce it), but it did, at least for
me, provide a telling glimpse into the unpromising
future of our country and the evils of so-called
“political correctness” and “tolerance.” While these
are fine concepts in general, I think they are really
getting out of hand when people try to force them
into the mainstream of society, past the point of all
reasonableness, until everyone is expected to con-
form to..the. same norms that everyone else does,
leaving little or no room for disagreement.

“What does this have to do with the Mock Con-
vention Gala?” you ask, aswellyou might.“lthought
it was just another date function.”

Sure, that’s what they would like you to believe.
lt’s alljust another excuse for a party, another excuse
to dance and drink and have fun. That’s true up to a
point, until you see the sinister ideology such an
event promotes, however subtly.

Everywhere you looked on campus, it was the
same. At first, it was hardly noticeable. Out of
nowhere, they appeared: Women with men! Men
with women! Laughing couples holding hands and
pretending to be happy while ﬂaunting their so-called
“lifestyles” in a ﬂimsy exercise to try to make them
look more acceptable to the mainstream. Surrounding
me was a tide of political correctness, screaming,
“Abandon your morals! Throw away your future!
Forget the rules of tradition and common decency!
Heterosexuality is just as good as any other arrange-
ment.”

Now, I realize that in today’s political climate, it is
unfashionable to “bash” heterosexuality. Suddenly,
politicians from Newt Gingrich to Bill Clinton to Pat
Robertson want us all to believe that being hetero-
sexual is somehow “okay,” or even desirable. “Family
values” are pararr Jill in the political discussion.

And heterosexuals have not let this go unnoticed.
Suddenly, as ifout of nowhere, they are flexing their

newfound political muscle in an effort to carve out a
territory for “special” heterosexual rights. They want
tax deductions for married couples that somehow
constitute more of a “family” than any other loving
living arrangement. They want marriage to be an
exclusively heterosexual province, depriving the chil-
dren of people of other sexual orientations of a more
stable, identiﬁably cohesive environment in which to

grow up. In some states, heterosexual extremists have

even attempted to organize to pass ballot initiatives
that would deny access to the political process to
anyone but heterosexuals. How far is this politically
correct hegemony going to extend before the Ameri-
can people see it for what it is?

 .I1Ihis.all dates backtothesixties. Then, “hippies”

demanding “peace” and “love” threw out the old
boundaries and moralities in favor of “free love.” They
brought their sexuality out of the closet, and demanded
that everyone watch them fomicating in the woods on
television, at the movies—throughout the popular
culture. What once had been tolerance of other people’s
sexual choices and living arrangements became just a
general sickness at watching naked men and women
going at it all the time. And yet, they continued. Now
you can’t turn on a daytime talk show without seeing
some hick with three teeth and long hair at the back of
his ﬂattop, just emerged from his trailer for the first
time in months and still blinking, talking about exactly
how he and his wife like to have sex. Do we really need
to know?

I, for one, am ready to step forward and say,
“Enough is enough!” I don’t care what ’anyone’s
sexual orientation is——have sex with anyone and ev-
eryone you want, or an old boot. But the public
promotion evinced toward this kind of sick, open
heterosexuality is just wrong.

Imagine the effect this could have on our children
alone. Suddenly, instead of discovering their sexuality in
pure, healthy ways, they would, have a heterosexual
hegemony mandating that they get married, have kids,
confonn to the American ideal, even before they fully
realize their own potential as individuals or develop
healthy attitudes toward sexuality.

The country would be overrun with loping, macho

men and mincing, effete women all trying the latest
“hip” trend of heterosexuality.

While I don’t think that any one religion should
control the government, it is abundantly clear by now
that America is fundamentally a Christian nation, and
this kind of rampant sexual immorality is clearly
againstthe Bible. In the Old Testament alone, there are
over 300 prescriptions on heterosexual activity. Can
the message be clearer?

This is not to mention the unhealthy aspects of the
heterosexual lifestyle. Over 90 percent of the world’s
AIDS cases are caused by heterosexual sex. A deadly
epidemic is passing through our society like wildfire
while “populists” and pseudo—intellectuals tell us that
heterosexuality is “natural.” If it is so natural, why will
it kill you? May as well light up and shoot up and throw
away your life as become a practicing heterosexual
these days.

Heterosexuals are also more likely to be child
molesters. 90 percent of child molestation, committed
against both young girls and young boys, is committed
by pedophiles who often masquerade as “normal”
heterosexual men with goodjobs. wives and families.
Obviously‘.s0methingisterribly wrongwithalifestyle
that can generate these kind of shocking statistics.

I’m not saying that all heterosexuals should be
locked away or whatever wild final solutions to the
problem some have proposed. I have lots of good
friends who are heterosexual, and even though I am
their friend, I let them know in no uncertain terms that
what they are doing, in my opinion, is a sin. I’m just
saying that society cannot afford to sanction some-
thing so insidious as this in the name of “PC.” or
“toleration,” and whileweshouldnotviolatethc rights
ofheterosexuals, we alsoshould not pretend that what
they are doing is right or even morally neutral.

So next time you see a young boy-girl couple
walking down the street, making moon eyes and
ﬂaunting their perversity for all the world to see,just
ask yourself what you are being asked to accept in
that arrangement.

Me? I don’t go for fancy cars, diamond rings or
movie stars. I go for penguins. Oh, Lord, I go for
penguins.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996

Looking for somet

think of the things I could do. What
jumps out right away is to become one
of the people who “buys” back text-

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

hing to do

the 137 different shots I took ofthem,
I’d still be raking in a proﬁt. Plus I
would get to go to Fancy Dress for free.

already pretty much know my way
around. I’d like to build a dairy there,
just like the one they have at Sweet

b00l<S1 My date could Briar College. Really.
Robert E. Stu- carr around There is alwa s the one other con-
. . . _ Y Y
This is the time of the year when dent: lboughtthis 9 Q mycamerabag tingency, the one which no college
"1051 SCWOFS TCQIIZ9 that 1” 3501" fl‘/6 geology book for for me. graduate wants to face: going back
months they will no longer be on a $45. . What will You may have read Now that home and living with your parents.
mealplan. Thisjarsthcm intolhtnklngg you give me? that Hollins C  the Grateful For me this is only slightly enticing
ab0Ult1Wh_3lIOEO3l1CTgF3dUi1l|0“}jTll15 I M61 TWO d0l- 0 ege Dead IS dis- because over the Christmas break I
USU3 Y "W0 V95 "OWE ‘O gm U319 ﬂrS~ ' ' banded, I found out that Linda Geor ‘an, th
school or getting zi‘;.j‘ob. Or thinking Robert E. Stu- ls l0f)klng for a new could spend president of the Psychic Fl'l6gl'lClS Ne:
ab0;1l b§°0ml“g§‘ll}l1‘hjY"333Y S0n;]0F- dent: Two do|- president, and I ﬁg- timefollowing work, has moved to my hometown,
y irst step in t e jo searc was lars? What a rip- Doug Clark Very Beach, Florida,
putting tfogetherarejurng. Thef:ouhgh% off!M 357.9: hey: why not me? and the Hot “I psychically felt I wanted to live
est part or me was cci ingw re 0 e: Nowit’sa Nutsaround. I in Vero Beach. I saw a bright light
my activitieswere directly relevant. It dollar and half, alreadyprettymuch could sell T- around Vero,”shetoldtheVeroBeach
always helps to have a friend read just for your atti- know my way around. shirts to help Press Journal.
thT0Ugh )’0U”°SUm0l0 ‘ell YOU “M0”? Iudc. 9 ° - sup on myself This could be my chance to live at
ber, Columbia House”and“President, Robert E. Stu- I d llke to  a on Flhe road. home, workforaTV psychicand getto
the CadaverSociety”are unnecessary. dent: I’msorrysir, dairy there, just  Maybe if I know Dionne Warwick personally, all
N0‘ that I am the Plesldent OT GVCI1 21 I’ll take it. worked hard at the same time. Plus this could lead
mepliber. Neverwirjd. fh S Sdtonewajll J. the one they have at enough Doug to all-new career opportunities like
ext comest in ingo ow to get tu ent: ow ° would make workingonSylvesterStallone’smom’s
as much money as possible with the much is that used Sweet Brlar College’ me a Hot Nut, psychic TV show. My resume will
least amountofwork. While getting 14 geology book? Really. and I could have a bright light around it.
hours of sleep a day. I would like to Me: $30. have my own Recently I’ve also been thinking a
have a job in TV, but I’m working on Stonewall J. limericks and lot about the speech ofmy high school
some back-up plans, just in case. Se- Student: Deal. everything. Valedictorian, who said the future lies

niors have to have something to calm
their nerves.
I look no farther than W&L when I

Icould always be one ofthose“pai1y
pics” people who come to Fancy Dress.
Even ifeach couple bought only one of

You may have read that Hollins
College is looking for a new president,
and I figure, hey, why not me? I

ahead of us, gleaming with possibility
or shimmering with hope or whatever.
Maybe he’ll give me ajob.

Alpha Phi Omega coed service
fraternity announces annual rush

To the W&L Community,

It is my privilege to announce that Alpha Phi
Omega Coed Service Fraternity will be holding its
Winter Rush from Jan. 25 thru Feb. 1. The activities
include an Open Meeting, Midnight Bowling, a
service project at the SPCA Animal Shelter, a Pizza
Party, and the Pledge Ceremony. Flyers providing
dates, times, and locations ofactivities will be posted
across campus and both Greeks and Independents
are encourages to participate.

This is a very special time for the Alpha Beta Tau
chapter of APO as this has been our best year ever!
We have had the largest pledge class, the largest
membership (forty brothers), and are working to-
wards completing the most service projects and
service hours in our history. For those unfamiliar
with APO, we are a Coed Service Fraternity dedi-
cated to the principles of Service, Leadership, and
Friendship. We have weekly social breaks in the Co-

op, a weekly meeting in the University Center, and
weekly service projects. (Brothers are required to
attend two service projects per term.) Upcoming
service projects include a visit to Stonewall Jackson
Intensive Care Facility, a visit to the SPCA Animal
Shelter, helping out with Habitat for Humanity and
attending our Sectional Conference at V

CU. We also sponsor ongoing projects such as a
tutoring program at Waddell Elementary School and
supervising two Brownie Troops in the area. We
also have numerous socials including our Annual
Semi—Formal (Feb.), a Movie Night (Mar.), an 80’s
Party (Apr.), and many informal socials scattered in-
between.

Pledgeship in APO is open (anyone who wants to
join gets in), lasts about six weeks, and involves four
tasks: going through the Pledge Ceremony and Ini-
tiation Ceremony, interviewing all the pledges and
brothers. sponsoring a pledge service project and

pledge social, and attending weekly pledge meet-
ings. Our pledgeship is not that demanding and is
designed to introduce pledges to the traditions of
APO and to familiarize them with theirfellow pledges
and their future brothers. Each pledge is assigned a
BIG Brother who helps them out with pledgeship
and who serves as a best friend in the fraternity. In
addition, there is no hazing in APO: no meaningless
errands to undertake, no stupid or humiliating tasks
to perform. Finally, joining APO is very easygoing
on the wallet or purse, only $35.

If you’re interested in learning more about
APO (and you think you want to be a part of
our best year ever), don’t hesitate to contact an
officer or brother or attend any (or all) of our
Winter Rush activities.

Paul D. Saboe,
APO President

rounds.

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Neither sleet, nor snow, nor driving rain
can stop us from making our appointed

(Well, usually.)

[I

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation will be
the award-winning story of a “date
from purgatory,” What Happened
Was. . . (USA, I994), directed by
Tom Noonan.

Screenings will be at 8:05 p.m.
on Friday and Saturday, Jan. 19 and
20 in the Troubadour Cinema, at the
corner of Main and Henry Streets.
As always, there is no charge for
admission. This film is in English.

The Film Society’s presentation
of The Postman, postponed by the
recent horrible weather, has been
rescheduled for Jan. 26-27.

Study Break

First Northern American Na-
tional Bank (Circuit City) will be
conducting an Information Session
on Tuesday, Jan. 23 at 7 p.m. in
Room I l4 ofthe University Center.
All students are invited to attend.

The News York Stock Exchange
Summer Internship deadline has
been extended. Resumes, State-
ment of Interest and Transcript are
due to the Career Development Of-
fice By January 26, I996.

Videotaped practice interviews
will be held on Wednesday, Jan. 24
at 4:30 in the Career Development
Office. All students are invited to
attend.

Career Opportunity

Are you getting ready to gradu-
ate and can’t find alegitimatecareer
opening? We can help allay your
fears. Exciting, unlimited financial
opportunity in the telecommunica-
tions industry.

We are holding on campus re-
cruiting mcetings on Monday and
Tuesday January 22 and 23 at &:30
p.m. in Room 113, University Cen-
ter.

Formoreinformation ortosetup
a confidential interview, call 463-
6638 from lto 4 p.m. on Monday or
Tuesday.

Project Horizon

Lori Clan of Project Horizon
will speak about violence and dat-
ing 7:30 p.m. January 25 in the
Northen Auditorium.

Support Group

A confidential support group is
meeting weekly for Washington
and Lee women who have experi-
enced sexual assault/abuse at any
time in their lives. This group has
been meeting weekly for eight
years with the membership always
open to new members. Each mem-
ber signs an agreement of confi-
dentiality at the first meeting.
Please call Carol Calkins, the
Counseling Center secretary, at
8590 or the University Health Ser-
vice at 8401 to learn of times and
locations. The first meeting for
the winterterm willbe Friday,Jan.
19.

Stress Test

Take the Stress Test. Find out
what stresses W&L students and
how W&Lstudents manage stress.
book forthestresstestinthe Health
Center, d-hall, library and classes.
Results will be revealed at an in-
teractive program “Cliff Notes on
Stress Management” 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, Jan. 30, Northen Audi-
torium by Wattcr Childress of Dow
Management Institute.

Alpha Phi Omega

Alpha Phi Omega events for
the month of January are as fol-
lows. APO will have an open
meeting Jan. 25, 6:30 p.m. in the
Fairfax Lounge. Midnight Bowl-
ing will take place at the lanes
midnight, Jan. 26. Those partici-
pating in the Jan. 28 Animal Shel-
tcr Project should meet at 12:50
p.m. in the BDG quad. A pizza
party is scheduled for 6 p.m. Jan.
30 in the Women’s Center.

Elrod commends B&G
for snow removal

Dear W&L Employees:

I want to pay a special tribute to
those of you in Buildings and
Grounds,DiningServices,andSe-
curitywholaboredwithsuchdedi—
cation during our monster snow
storm. To the Buildings and
Grounds crew, I want to express
my appreciation for those long
round-the-clocktwelve hourshifts
you served removing snow from
the walks, roads, and parking lots
on campus. To the Dining Ser-
vices employees who found ways
to make it to work on Sunday
evening and Monday to servethose

students who made it back to Lex-
ington, thank you for your great
efforts. And to the Security folks
who fielded hundreds of call daily
through the storm weekend and on
Monday, and who provided trans-
portation as needed, a special debt
of gratitude is owed you as well.

Thank you all for your very
special efforts on behalf of Wash-
ington and Lee. We all appreciate
your dedication and thank you
for it.

Sincerely,
John W. Elrod

During the non‘-snow off season the U.S. Womenis Rlpine Ski Team members used the 'Ski
dogs! The basis of the diet is chemical food oction odn was devised bg a famous Color
lverg importontﬂ while reducing. You keep full -- no storvotion -- because the diet is de

This is. honestlg. o fontosticollg successful diet. If it weren't. the U.S. Womenis Fll

LOSE 2O POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS
Famous US. Womens H/pine Ski Team Diet

stog at home.

Teom' diet to lose 2O pounds in two weeks. lhots right -- 2O pounds in l4
jodo phgsicion especiollg for the U.S. Ski Team Mormol energg is maintained
signed that wog. lts o diet that is cosg to follow whether gou work. travel. or

pine Ski Team would be permitted to use it. Pight? So. give gourself the some break
I e U8 5k’ Teom gels: l*°5“_ “"3’g"l  5Cl¢l'llC. Pfovcn wog. Even if gouve tried all the other diets. gou owe it to gourself to trg the US. Womens Qlpinc Ski Team

l)l¢*.  IS. If gou really do want to lose 2O pounds in two weeks.
Send Onlg $8.95 l$9.60l in Colrfomiol -- odd $.50 PUSH service to: ﬁlmericon Institute. 72l E.

unless gou expect to lose ZO pounds in two weeks! Becousethots what the Ski Team Diet will do.

Order todogl Tear this out as o reminder.
Main Street. Dept. 254. Santa Maria. CFI 93454-4507. Dont order

older students - camp coun-

Colorado Rockies Backpack-
ing. Western riding, water
activities. natural sciences and
many outdoor programs Write:

Box 167, Florissant. CO 80816

Rewarding. exciting summer
for college sophomore and

seller positions available in the

Sanbom Western Camps. P.O.

gm; DETAILS:

Vicky
Pratt
Kedﬁng

  

ANC

SUIT 2 1 6

1.861 1~t-1=.='1a:1::E12.a.r. 
I-:oIaL‘x1rg,po.n..F1;. 33030

in the GHQ Pub

Friddy,
Jdnudry l9
lO:00 pm.

    
 
 
    
  

I    Admission Free
NECESSARY!
RUSH LONG 5.455 .

‘‘|mogine it Nanci
Griffith, David Byrne,
ond Kate Bush were

I somehow fused into

I one body ond you've
. got the idea.” Henry

’ Dorn, of Charleston's

Free Times

  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, 3]} ggggx 1g, lﬁg “

3

     

 
 

gem MN iAtx\ii;BEEN
M4 \)NDERl>\C\k\’\l\lER.
BUY RE \Nl>é M’\2o\)D
Ui~\DERi>ciAii:.\Ji;R

M=oi<ruNi; 500   ‘ ; 1    i  
NEDDNG   A  i  i

. . l “  s  ./'



xx/Lay 

  
     
   
     

Put your face in the yearbook!

  

Drop off pictures ofyou and yourfriends infrorit of
Carol Caulkiri’s office in the University Center

Please limit contributions to those taken during the 1995-96 school year.

Welcome Students ’

 smiiciisii   ,

‘—tL:af:a=

While you were gone -

COLOR i

came to Lexington

     
     
       
         
     

We now Offer   COIOY Xelbx a downstairs Rathskeuer
copies at competitive prices ll
. ... 16 Lee Ave.
The possibilities are endless — 9» —
.. flyers, transparencies, photos. . .. (across from Chi Psi)

. 8am-3pm-Monday -
:3 am - 10 pm — Tuesday - Thursday
I 8 am - 11 pm - Friday — Saturday

   



  
    

      
         
  

   

 
 

       

  

P.-0* B‘“Ac1,§§§m;‘,g§f,;’,& 3,-=;-1:3“ 5"“  9 am ' 3 Pm ' Sunday  10% food discount to all
mom 540-463-1712 - FAX: 54o—463~9455 E W d d S h tf & S 1 d E W&L Students everyday!
. enes ay- pagel aa . .
: All you can eat $4.99 : .  Angus steaks " 3
.7  I Thursday — 10% off food - with student ID I 0 Salads, Sandwiches,
iwiowaine SYORES : : . )_
‘ : Friday - Seafood Nite - : Appetlzers
Hardware, Paint, and Related Items : Crab Legs, Siilrbimpi Trout I
' S t d - 8 . P ' ' , '
E gplen MSon.LSat.‘ 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 316-35 : a “T 3)’ 2 §>/ZegS:1g1:ad1$8.95 ... Take outs 434.3157 *
. e son t., exmgton — :
I Nightly dinner specials
: Lunch Specials Daily

: I I1I9IW'I lwlal ISILI, IIICIX 9| I I I E  at u a’m' 
_ « Dinner served 4:30 p.m. ‘til ‘.'??
  Reservations recommended '9 3
/
g ..

     
     
    
     

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
.. ‘./I

app oqa9.Qo'

. if
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing  Restaurant an

 9{o55ie’sLounge

  
   
 
   
   

  

 

Don’; Le; andAccessories
Your Student Route 7, Box 99A
G0 Hung”, Welcome Back Students Lexington, Virginia 24450
 : Near the Horse Center
Phone 464-9499

  
  

23 N. Main St. (703)463-5988
/ Lexington, VA 24450

 

   

\\

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?
Restaurant ll-001m in 0-30 r) m

\

 

: : would you like to spend the summer working
I W/427¢g2&p0Ag : of a Wyoming Guest Ranch? Ours is on
V I   H H V 3  5”’ 2Z“{"‘“2”‘e“ I 1425,0095 acres in the Medicine Bow Mountains,
Nutrltlogfiglugalyjdfggfclaltles E  curd Séadea 3 next to a wilderness area. We serve 1%
Hearty Sandwl~CheS&Mexl-can Entrees : i : guests at a time with a staff of 85. If you are
Candlelightpmers : ,9 S.  st. : available from about June 1 to September 8 or
2 463__274Z : the end of September, and enjoy both out-

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo doors and being of Service to Others: Weld‘ 

TEACH ENGLISH lN KORE/\- Positions available monthly. B./\. or 13.5. to set up an interview, For an application or

degree required. U5 $18,500-25,400/yr. Accomodation & rourid—trip _ _ _
airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma and copy of passport to: more 'nf°rmat'°n‘ Bob or Margle HOW» A 30" A

Bol< .Ji Coprporation, Chun Bang Bldg, 15445 Samsung Dong, Kang Nam Gu, Ranch p 0 BOX 1g4g Conifer CO 80433 (363)
Seoul, Korea 155-090. ’ ' ' 4 ’
TEL: oii—s2—2-sss—.ioss(se27) FAX: oii-s2—2-ss2—4FA><(4529) 838-1950 0|’ e-mail O  F0 ranch O0l-Com l

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. ‘Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

:WpThe Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996  IJAGE 7

      YtT'll‘|.‘|iT‘li3
« EANS LOWF£i:iCE$ W Wm WM

Ground  

‘.
g c
an >‘:ixv04uU‘I0iI‘

    

   

Rebekah Prince Cam Dyer
Women’s Swimming Men's Basketball

Rebekah Prince seemed to be everywhere Dyer has piled up some amazing numbers

last week, _ in the past few weeks.
The seniorcaptainwasamain contributorin The Senior has not Scored under twenty
the Generals’ three meet victories last week. points since the New Year. After scoring 21
She proved herconsistency bycapturingat least points against both Virginia Wesleyan and
  Sa'e one race in each mee(tj. Aga(t')r(1)st Centre, Prince Iliyn(<j:h|t)t;1rg\,/I Dyer, gent onda rampage at
took the 100 back an the 2 lM. an 0 p - acon. e poste a career-hi h
Thorne  Valley Perdue Her performance was also impressive late in point total Of41, including 24 in the first halif.
n Lunch Tufkey the Catholic meet. With the meet on the line, Dyer’s point total trailed only Jay Handlan’s
M t D t‘ k Prince teamed up with Megan Wiedmaier, Greta 66 as the highest W&L single-game total ever.
ea S 8 oz,   S_Ib. Richter, and Laura Marshall to capture the 400 Dyerput24 morepointsontheboardagainst
free relay and the meet victory. Roanoke and piled up 25 at Emory & Henry.

Fresh

Russet
otatoes

”  meets last week. . ' 
‘ ‘ W&L dispatched Centre, 109-82. Natha L
 A it David Stillman led the way for W&L wit ‘twp
' victories apiece and Craig Sears added anothe

_ The relayteams also roved tentgasthey

   

‘     ea.

   
 

        

_  victorystringcaniv  agains S
_ _ . _ :, ._lic, 126-64, QHottle did his part one ‘  Q‘,..P0nSaC01aChr la
cahfafnla Tangy Ju'cy _ 1 wirilnting aniindlilvidual race. h  d ”h ’ saweek;later‘,34¢12; d_
. - ’ ‘ » V eroa wi eteventou er n atur w _ ‘ " ' "
Navel L T A Limes 0'' T the-Generals uglier to UNC%ChaCpel Hill t battele j‘
 A   i i  2‘ "  eai . , ough Emory and Johns “Hopkins squads,‘-
_  4 Pack
N 5”” i I _ .
 ' . i ' .IJ:eRIng-rum Phi Is proud to serve you each   f 5 7
sco'Ss ,_Feel free to Contact us of our office -- 462-40593)» ’
-<

   

 egaﬁrirers should come to our meetings on Tuesda‘

  F S4 "-  Ir Yousvr GOT WHAT lT TAKES

Soft Drink Feature TO BB‘/X LEADER iNI_OUR CQMPANYJ, 2

THTS'COU,l;D BEYOUR QFETCE.
PEPSI
Q
C

 

  

um»  Ms  . . r . =. .. . A .- A. '
., . ‘ "" WV‘ ‘W’ 3*?‘ 59‘ -Wu Y 6-’? 355s"r .41’ 015 ;°’.‘:u‘as' or-.».~..’:;:: me (:‘»::a3‘twi=s. "»‘(.~i.‘ nrsjts’ M .">a«-
' . '    OZ. Cans ""5 V25 3"’ *i”‘,"‘*"* “?"~""i"">‘-“‘»‘v”ﬁ-*“i'*"*«»’3’»*L‘ AM? it -ms .'e .92 (mi? 3 !.4I.x::'.»: C*ff,i:?=r *:r.w«‘a-.—ate.«":» ::.§.a».n:;}..,,~«‘;%~ 3-”
-4 sklnner Ver'l,1'ce'" or I ' D . t  ::m“;:"   §1'*3d3»'f"’tl7‘$} as ‘3;'z3C’ 30 M sm.‘.:a; t‘é:'»:(*' :4.‘ a.~~.s,!.x;x‘'> 1‘? 5*-T‘*'.*‘.<¥’u(:$;;
_ .,~t.4.t¢“)c.§;t’:{}\ ’;i1€a'«M;a’i§(°.' g.’§§‘§§{,l yd ' _,’;,......A i ,‘ >._ . gal; ,s’..,¢
it I hm PS” r 'e v".'i".!*“:* Di’/\'1'x:F.,i'ty‘{t’tt?l:‘] .-e.'1:,it(.~;,*.'(.“:tY\1t1';2*:e' mﬁ    U W)‘;  
I - - * o !k”“”' - _’~‘ » * 5.... s. ~92 . s. I. Jﬁfcaitaxrfi Ht‘;
* Spa heft‘ Pe St    &
 M For more mfomaation, please set: =Captain Hanvefi at the
:3 I Evans Diﬂlﬂg Hall on February‘ I3, 1996

from 11:00 a.m.-1.-00p.m.
or call 7-«80{)~542~$85 1,

 

. 7 oz.

g . . . SPRING BREAK ’ -
Hams Teeter President’s Choice mps, EARN CASH & 360 FRSl~;Ii§ITii

‘i ' T0mal-‘O 2? '-em0'i('-.U0U"a" 139 §:§l‘,J§'§l‘s‘}f;§‘é‘%§f§§LiZ:E3§?s?l2t%

'« amarca, ,

  Sauceils  Coo 'eS__j_12oz. mmac.,,Bg;g,:nCa,,qx8«g;,=:;g;.

Fresh Selected Varieties

Single Stem 2? Colgate 199 W C
' FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***
onS_ea. -  __5-5-4 02- Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
    23’  America s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun

Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

iv,-u,-,-_-_v_v._-,-_cXv.‘-vxv-_vv4 vv V26 tn 1: u u u \ I. x In I. u c.

Prices in This Ad Effective January 17 Through January 23, 1996 In our Lexington store _ ,
 Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept reaerai PO00 Stamps. (800) 95 BREAK‘
L
V
\ T l

 

 

 

Last Week:

Wa.I.srLINc - L, 34-12, vs. Pensacola Christian; L, 25-24, vs. Davidson
 - W,7-1-71, vs. Lynchburg; L, 81-66, at Rand.-Macon;
L, 90-83, vs. Roanoke; L, 84-73, at Emory& Henry
 - W, 55-46, vs. Hollins; L,56-54, vs. Lynchburg;
L, 70-47, vs. Emory& Henry; L.67-44, at E. Mennonite
Mswnlumo - W, 109-82, at Centre; W, 88-52, vs. Buffalo State;

L, 126-64, at Catholic

Wswmuma - W, 122-60, at Centre; W, 118-44, vs. Buffalo State;

W, 103-102, at Catholic

PAGE 8

S

Ellie ﬂing-mm lﬂhi  

PORTS

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

This Week:

Wnzsnma - Saturday in W&L Invitational, 9:00AM
MBAs|(n'aAu.- Saturday at Bridgewater, 7:30 PM;
Wednesday vs. Hampden-Sydney, 7:30 PM
WBAsIrl:raA|.L - Saturday at Randolph-Macon, 2:00 PM; ’

Tuesday vs. Eastern Mennonite, 7:00 PM;

Thursday vs. Randolph-Macon, 7:00 PM
M, Wswnmmc - Saturday vs. Emory, Johns Hopkins. 10:00 AM
M, WINDOOR Truck - Saturday at Virginia Tech Invitational

‘'1:

JANUARY 19, 1996 ti

 

   

. Late int’;
 e

    

 
  
  

"gang .VMl'

1, gs;;ofNieo1eSimpson"'
[nd3Ro_nafld._Goldman.  ._

   
 
 
  

ays.

 

.71.:
does, ‘remember j

<iO"KW¥‘\LTER  1

en, and def‘ ;.

 
  

itmayliap-jg

éard.iit,.,ltere first. .

Generals’ late rally falls short

against archrival Roanoke
Cam Dyer racks up 41 points in loss to Randolph-Macon

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team played
some ofits best ball ofthe season
during the final five minutes ofa
home game Monday against
longtime nemesis Roanoke.

The Generals were draining
three-pointers, driving the lane,
creating Roanoke turnovers and
playing an up-tempo pace. Un-
fortunately, W&L was behind
by fourteen points at that point
and it could only close the gap to
a 90-83 loss.

Head coach Kevin Moore
admired the Generals’ tenacity
at the end.

“ltwas encouraging,” hesaid.
“We didn’t quit.”

Afterwatchingafirsthalflead
evaporate into a double-digit
deficit, W&L began to charge
back late. Senior Derek Carter
caught fire from the three-point
line to help the Generals narrow
the deficitto five points at86-81,
buttime ran outon the Generals’
comeback attempt.

Roanoke helped themselves
survive the threat by sinking 18
of 25 free throws in the second
half. The Maroons were also
solidontheboards,out—rebound-
ing W&L, 41-37.

Roanoke trailed 33-30 late in
the first half, but it finished the
first half with a scoring ﬂurry.
Dan Riley canned a three-pointer
at the buzzer to send the Ma-
roonsintothelocker room witha
37-35 advantage.

Roanoke would never relin-
quish the lead. W&L closed to
48-47 on a Kelly Dyer bucket
with 13:45 remaining, but
Roanoke took offon a 9-0 run to
give it a comfortable margin.

Moore acknowledged that
Roanoke’s rally to end the first
half may have turned the mo-
mentum in the Maroons’ favor.

“We were playing real well
and then we started turning the
ball over,” he commented. “We
haven’t yet put a finger on why
we’re doing that.”

Senior forward Cam Dyer did
his part to helpthe Generals with
his 24 points on9for16shooting
to go along with eight rebounds.
Carter scored 11 points, 9 com-
ing from behind the arc, and
grabbed nine boards. Junior
guard Chris Couzen pitched in
with 14 points.

Jason Bishop scored 19
points to lead Roanoke, which
improves to 9-3 overall and 4-3
in the league.

The Generals’ luck was not
any better Saturday at Randolph-

Macon as the Yellow Jackets
overpowered them, 81-66.

W&L once again came apart
midway through the second half
after playing well in the first
twenty minutes and holding a
38-35 halftime lead.

The game was knotted at 50
with 12:31 left, but the Yellow
Jackets outscored the Generals
31-16 the rest of the way to deny
W&L from ending a 19-year
winless drought against them.

The story of the day, though,
was Cam Dyer. The senior put
on an amazing show by racking
up an incredible 41 points. Dyer
connected on 76 percent of his
shots (16-21) from the floor and
converted 9 of 12 free throws to
give W&L its highest individual
scoring performance since Jay
Handlan rung up 66 points back
in 1951.

Dyer scored 24 of the Gener-
als’ 38 first halfpoints and started
the second half with eight more
before Randolph—Macon finally
began making adjustments.

The Yellow Jackets scrapped
their man-to—man defense that
Dyer was torching in favor of a
zone defense which shut him
down in the post. Randolph-
Macon didn’t totally succeed in
stopping the one-man wrecking
crew as Dyer scored nine more
points, but it was enough to al-
lowthem tojumpoutto aninsur-
mountable sccond half lead.

“(Dyer) has done a greatjob,”
Moore said. “He’s playing as
good as anyone in.the confer-

ence.”

Dyer’s shoulders were wide,
but not wide enough to carry the
rest ofthe team, which shot only
26 percent from the floor. The
Generals were well off-target
from the three-point line, failing
on all 13 shots attempted.

“We need someone else to
step forward, “ Moore stated.
“We can’tjust rely on him.”

No other General was in
double figures in points besides
Dyer. Carter and Kevin Cobbin
were next on the list with six
points apiece.

While everyone else was
stuck on impassable roads and
grounded in airports, the Gener-
als actually bcnefited from the
blizzard. Due to the snow,
Lynchburg moved its home game
with W&L last Wednesday to
the Warner Center.

The unexpected home court
advantage paid huge dividends
for the Generals as they pulled
offa 74-71 triumph fortheir sec-
ond victory of the season. This
time, W&L was the team that
made the big second half run as
the Generals launched a come-
back fr. ' eight points down to
snare the win.

Dyer had another big game
with 21 points and 11 rebounds.
The forward was named ODAC
Player of the Week for his totals
of 62 points and 22 rebounds
against Lynchburg and
Randolph-Macon.

Couzen also contributed
greatly in the victory with his 13

points and 5 assists. Senior Jon
Coffman added 11 points.

The Generals weren’t quite as
hot a week earlier against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan on January 3.
Wesleyan blew them away, 103-
82, in a game marred by 28 W&L
turnovers. Dyer and Coffman tied
for high scoring honors with 21
points apiece, but the Generals as
a whole could not quite shake off
the rust in their first game after
Christmas break.

W&L endured another frus-
trating game Thursday night at
Emory & Henry, losing, 84-73.

After trailing 41-35 at half-
time, the Generals hung tough
throughout most of the second
half. Emory & Henry held a slim

'65-63 lead with less than ﬁve min-
utes to play when the bottom fell
out on the Generals.

The Wasps jetted off on a 10-2
run which ended the Generals’
upset chances.

Cam Dyer added 25 more
points to his totals and brother
Kelly tacked on 14 for W&L.
Couzen, Carter, and Coffman all
sank a pair of three-pointers.

Despite another hard-fought
effort, W&L falls to 2-13 overall,
2-7 in the ODAC, with the loss.

Moore mentioned that the
team’s goal for the second half of
the season is to play its way into
the ODAC tournament. The top
eight teams in the ODAC make
the conference tournament.

The Generals swing back into
action on Saturday night at
Bridgewater.

um.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Cam Dyer (24) has been on fire in recent weeks. After scoring 21 points in the
Generals’ victory over Lynchburg, Dyer piled up 41 against Randolph-Macon.

 
      
   
 

 

Phi File Photo I

The women’s swimming team sped out to a 3-0 "
record last week. The Generals are now 5-2 after
taking care of Centre. Buffalo State, and Catholic.

Swirmningposts '
strong 3-0 week -

The women’s swimming team blew through their meets last
week, posting victories in all three, and improving their overall \
record to 5-2. I

The Generals, led by senior All-American Rebekah Prince,
crushed Centre College, 122-60, and Buffalo State, 118-44. They
also beat Catholic, 103-102.

Against Centre and Buffalo State, the Generals jumped out to
huge early leads and never looked back. The Generals had a 33-2 A
lead over Buffalo State after two events and a 28-2 margin over
Centre after two events.

Prince led the way over Centre with two wins in the 100
backstroke and the 200 individual medley (IM).

Six different Generals also won their races: freshman Courtney
Tyler in the 1000 freestyle, sophomore Megan Wiedmaier in the 200? _
free,junior Laura Marshall in the 50 free, freshman Margaret Hoehl »
in the 100 free, freshman Greta Richter in the 500 free, and seniorlill
Sheets in the 100 breast. ’'

Against Buffalo State, Hoehl won two individual races, the 1000
free and the 100 fly. She was also on the winning 400 relay team.’

Catholic provided the only resistance to the Generals last week.
Going into the last race, the 400 free relay, Catholic was leading
W&L, 96-92.

Prince, Wiedmaier, Richter, and Marshall took first place in the
race by five seconds, giving the Generals the 103-102 victory.

“We were pretty nervous before the event, but we swam well and
had personal best times. It was really exciting,” said Wiedmaier.

Prince, Hoehl, and Wiedmaier each won two individual races for
W&L against Catholic.

With these wins, the Generals have their sights on repeating as
ODAC champions. ,-

“We have a really strong women’s team this year and we have a
really good shot at winning the ODACS,” said sophomore Katy
Gibbs.

Senior captain Jill Sheets echoed those same sentiments: ‘‘If
everyone swims the way they have been, we should win (ODACs).”,

The team’s three wins last week helped turn around a 2-2 season.

“After the Catholic win, we were really pumped. '1 he Christmas
training has really paid off. and we are getting results,” said
Wiedmaier. '

Helping the Generals will be the contributions of several out-’
standing freshmen.

“We have five freshmen that can swim all different events. They
add lots of depth and can score a lot of points for us,” noted Sheets.

Prince was named the women’s Athlete of the Week for her
outstanding performance in the last three meets.

The Generals will probably have their toughest meet of the year’
tomorrow against Emory and Johns Hopkins at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. They are looking to avenge an earlier
loss to Hopkins.

The Generals will swim at Radford on Wednesday and have their
next home meet on January 31 against Hollins. “"

Women’s hoops ﬁnishes 1-3 stretch - 
with defeat at Eastern Mennonite 1

From Phi Staff Reports

Three Washington and Lee
women’s basketball players
scored in the double figures in
last week’s 55-46 defeat of
ODAC foe Hollins College.

Freshman Chrissy Burghardt
led W&L with 15 points while
senior Sandra Holmes and sopho-
more Tonia Dean each added 12
points for the Generals.

Dean crashed the boards to

helped out by freshman Amber
Hinkle and Holmes with 11 and
10 boards, respectively.

The Generals were not as suc-
cessful while racking up two losses
against ODAC members
Lynchburg (56-54) and Emory and
Henry (70-47).

Burghardt stole a Lynchburg
pass with 30 seconds left in the
contest and went coast to coast to
give the Generals a 54-52 lead.
The Hornets, however, buried four
free throws in the last 15 seconds

victory. Burghardt was once
again the leading scorer for the
Generals with 16 points.

Emory and Henry jumped out
to a 7-0 lead to start their game
with the Generals. E&H shot 62
percent from the three-point are
as they cruised to a 70-47 win.

Dean scored 10 points to lead
the Generals while Hinkle
helped out with a Washington
and Lee single-game record of
four blocked shots.

The team hit the road on Tues-

nonite, 67-44. W&L was down
by nine points at the half to be
surprised by a 16-0 run by East-
ern Mennonite at the beginning
of the second half. ’“'

Burghardt had nine points and
four rebounds, Holmes had 14
points and four rebounds, and
Dean had nine rebounds.

W&L’s record stands at 2-7 1-.
overall, 1—6 in the conference.
The team will travel tonight to
battle Virginia Wesleyan. On
Saturday, they face Randolph-

 

 

grab 12 rebounds. She was to provide them with a two-point day only to lose to Eastern Men- Macon on the road_ 3‘
' ' 3" " " " "€'z:c'K1i'n" ''§ri:'*r'é''2‘i''‘§' '' ' " " ' ' " '5
- . _ 5 _ _' _ 9 , ‘A . . V
00 Y0" want ‘"5 Magtercard Credit -Card5 ' I 1501 n..mu.r.1mns.r.z nee BLVD :
Of ﬂuwyoucantm-etvanuoftheuiost-mmgmnadund ' HELL-MIDRLE; F  )-
- accepted tnidlluxnia in the wu_ud..vIsaI um peuiucauu.-do I V i
cndlt ands-‘In :3-{V511-name EVEN gown Nwng-‘ﬁlgg : twmtvismmasrmcaann Credit I
casnn" or E8” |URN_ DOWN ' 3 5
ms”, Md Mmmcuﬁa mt ﬁg “id, rm ' tngdalpprmved Immedtalehr. 100% GUARANTEED! '
. daueruetridnocd£or~---n)—-B0OR5-—  EN!‘ | NA’-‘E 3.»
. STORES—11II11UN~—EN'£‘ERTAlP4MEN!'— V 4
® _EMEK3_EM.'.‘-Y_ mL?i—rnkséAgmsr  : 3993353 
' '.- ' RBPIHRS-—AHDTO-Bu£lDYOURCR!§DfTRAT1NGl :C!'IY . . STATE-:....ztP_._...__.__. .
am No tam. ummsi ' S "2 if’’?*§“““‘¥E‘S‘5'# "'
,,,.au“,_,,;.uu an credit checks! ' SIGNAWRE '
‘“$plQI:%2‘_g 1:“ In security deposit! : mm uauaoua tan peguuod antenna :11  mmuMﬂ Inc. :
Gugll $51 I v who Iitkﬂstuul trad:-unrkdwsll tn; Vushiaknnloml
" 59'“ "*5 “~'?’“"‘*‘ ‘°“*“:‘ I '-
TOUR CREDIT CARDS MIE VAITIIG. | g
I &$&:C—I—In-—w$Q$CCC&*QQ&h:$—9

 

