JAMK G. LBYIURN UIRARY
\‘l/AI~D'C$«5‘ I ‘LC ‘II!-Sb/‘FIlTY
LQQOITIM, VA 800

8EP 1 8 1995

 

 

Fall TV

preview

Water polo

cruises in Fall
classic

1 9' or or .
x 9 5 .
VOLUME 93, N0- 2 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA SEPTEMBERI5, 1995
' O
* W&L ranked No
, 15 by U.S. News
WW®Ww .aaaaamama
H” E"°°‘”"’° Ed”°' 25th for academic reputation, third for
y student selectivity, and 77 percent of
Washington and Lee University has the incoming freshman were in the top
again been named the 15th best na- 10 percent of their high school classes.
tional liberal arts college in the nation. W&L Was also ranked 16th for its
This is the second year the school has student retention and boasts a gradua-
garnered that position. In 1993, W&L tion rate of 89 percent.
4 was ranked at number 20. While Howison is pleased with the
Bach September us. News and recognition W&L attracts, he said the
World Report, a national news maga- University does not cater their prac-
zine, compiles the listing to aid high tices to place well on college ranking
. school seniors as they begin their lists.
,3, college search, However, the University does focus
“we should be proud to beincluded on the areas to which surveyors look
among the best national liberal arts When S00rlhg- Thus, the UhlV¢fSitY
colleges in the country,” said Dean of Wins these accolades largely by de-
Students David Howison. “ Because fault, h0t 0Ut0f3|'|)’ C0nC€It€d ¢ff0It t0
I we are.” be Number One.
’ U.S. News studies a variety of cat- “Take our graduation rate,” said
egories to determine the rankings. Howison. “Our goal is to have as many
Academic reputation, student selec- students graduate as possible. Eighty-
tivity, faculty resources, student reten- nine percent is quite high and is indica-
tion, graduation rate, and other criteria tive of a quality education.”
4 ﬁgure into a college’s overall score. Howison believes the list is an im-
The listing of the best national lib- portant resource for ‘high school stu-
Betsy Green, phi photo Edna, eral arts. colleges should not be con- dents who are choosing colleges. To
Moooove along fused with the listing of the best na- that end, the feC0gmtl0ﬂ b0deS Well
tional universities, also compiled by for W&L.
‘( U.S. News. Dean of the College W. Lad Ses-
" Freshmen males gather in the BDG quad for one of the three rounds of Rush open houses held this weekend National universities usually have S'°"S.agr°ed wlth H°w.'S°" that ‘t was
' more-selective admissions and greater pleasing to be recognized for excel-
resources. According to U.S. News, lence,butplaceslittlestockinthe meth-
0 0 0 they offer a wide range of baccalaure- odology of the survey.
Stadium renovations st art this We ek    a   on    wi-
A , research, and award many Ph.D.’s. leges could slip ﬁve or more places in

F

‘e

)1, input in designing the new fa_ system to ensure students’ safety at W&L. Two weeks into the school
cilities. Suggestions were given year, Dean of Freshmen Dennis Manning and Head of Security Michael
,0 architect Kelly Ludwig of Young have not received any complaints.
the Richmond based firm last year, freshmen faced an increase in theft, solicitation and
Marcellus, wright’ Cox and unwanted guests in their halls. General Meters Corporation in Colorado
‘‘ Smith After the budget and Springs, CO, provided the answer with the new system. Although it may

By BET!-[ANY BAUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

A --"l Like several other W&L

buildings, the Wilson Field Sta-
dium will be getting a face lift
this year. Renovations on the
stadium began this week.
According to assistant ath-
letic director and facilities man-
ager ChuckO’Connell, the start
of the construction has been a
long time coming. Talk about

amount of input that they had
in the design. “We were happy
to have as much access as we
did with the architect and with
the administration. They
backed up with our sugges-
tions and were very
cooperative...I think that’s in-
dicative and characteristic of
Washington and Lee in terms
of administrative support,”
said head athletic trainer
Tom Jones.

The stadium is set to be

completed August 1, 1996. For
the next fall sports season, all
of the W&L field teams, with
the exception of the cross-
country teams, will be operat-
ing out of the new facility.
Thisisamovethat many mem-
bers of the athletic department
are eagerly anticipating.
“We’re outgrowing the gym
with the number of people who
are participating in sports. And
a lot of the teams are doubled,
almost tripled up, in the locker

rooms as it is now...it is much
more convenient for athletes
to be over closer to their ﬁelds,
especially if there’s an injury,”
said assistant athletic trainer
Patti Colliton.

Until the construction is
completed, field teams will
have to adapt to working out of
the Doremus Gym facility. But
according to Coach Frank
Miriello, the Generals football
team has not had trouble mak-
ing the change. “We’re an A

and I team, adjust and impro-
vise.” Miriello also stated that
the new stadium facility will
be a plus for W&L recruiting.

Despite any inconvenience
that the construction will cause
the W&L athletic community,
it will be well worth the wait.
“A lot of consideration has gone
into the plans, more than a lot
of people would have guessed.
lt’s going to be very functional
and practical, but very attrac-
tive,” said O’Connell. ‘

.%

m and 2.2 million dollars.

renovating the stadium began
about ten years ago. Making
formal plans, however, was put
on hold until funding was av ail-
able. During the University’s
“On the Shoulders of Giants”
capital campaign, part of the
money was earmarked for the
stadium renovation and exten-
sion. The budget forthe project
has been estimated between 1.8

Last school year athletic di-
rector Mike Walsh and
O’Connell met with the equip-
ment managers, athletic train-
ers and coaches to get their

space allotment speciﬁcations
were worked out, Walsh and
O'Connell again met with per-
sonnel to discuss the layout
and design of the new stadium.
Members of the athletic de-
partment were pleased with the

ck)‘ .-ae-

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

p * Plans to expand Phone Mail System

i

,4.

K.

 

By CELLESTE RASMUSSEN
Phi Staff Writer

In the first week of school, W&L freshmen are
faced with many new challenges: roommates, quiet
hours, communal bathrooms, and the Phone Mail
System. While the first three may eventually be
tolerated at best, the Phone Mail Sstem soon be-
comes an intricate part of residence hall life. Not only
does it give access to e-mail and the Internet, but it
also eliminates the need to purchase a separate an-
swering machine and telephone for students living in
University-owned housing.

One large group of students in University-owned
housing is being left out of the Phone Mail loop,

however: the residents of W&L’s fifteen fratenity
houses. Fraternity houses, which have been owned
by the school since the completion of the Fraternity
Renaissance Program, are currently being served by
the regional long distance company, Sprint—Centel;
and fraternity members must dial in via modem if
they wish to log onto Liberty.

Last year, after considerable interest from frater-
nity members, a Virginia company was contacted to
work out the schematics of laying down the ﬁber-
optic cables that are necessary for the Phone Mail
system. However, according to Associate Dean of
Students Leroy Atkins ll, the treasurers of the indi-
vidual chapters received a letter this summer saying
that the plans have temporarily been put on hold.

Director of University Services, Jim Johndrow,
cites two road blocks to the completion ofthe project.
Firstofall, the funds estimated to install wiring in the

houses themselves was underestimated. Secondly,
laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia prevent
schools, such as Washington and Lee, who run their
own long distance service (used in all main campus
housing and ofﬁces) from providing long distance
service to non-contiguous properties. Basically,
fraternity houses whose lots do not border the main
W&Lcampus, such as the fraternities in the Davidson
Park area, must use the regional long distance carrier.

Despite this initial setback, Dean Atkins is very
optimistic that the law will be changed this fall, and
Jim Johndrow assures that the Telecommunications
department is actively working to iron out the logis-
tical problems so that the system can be installed next
year. Hopefully, in a few months fraternity residents
will be able to hear the familiar voice of the “Phone
Mail Lady” when they check their messages instead
of their own answering machines.

Get ready for Mock Con:
See page 2 for GOP Watch

Topping this list was Harvard,
Princeton, Yale, and Stanford.

National liberal arts colleges are
also highly selective but emphasize —
and award more than 40 percent of
their degrees in — the liberal arts.
Amherst College in Massachusetts
topped this survey with an overall score
of 100. Coming in at number 21 with
an score of 87.9 was Davidson College
in North Carolina, W&L’s
long-time rival.

one year. lnparticular, he doubted how
Davidson, which he called a ﬁne aca-
demic institution, could fall from num-
ber eight to number 21.

“l have strong doubts about the re-
liability and viability of the rankings,”
said Sessions. “They aren’t etched in
granite. The ratings are slippery.”

According to Sessions, Washing-
ton and Lee will continue trying to
become a better institution regardless
of whether or not surveys notice it.

New security
system installed in
freshmen dorms

By Eiuc CHRISTENSON
Phi Staff Writer

  
   

men dorms

Washington and Lee Security has installed a new card-access system
in the Baker, Davis, Gilliam and Graham-Lees dormitories. Students are
required to use their student identiﬁcation to gain access to freshmen halls.
increased crime last year prompted the appropriation of $60,000 for the

be an inconvenience to bring a card jogging or on a trip across the quad,
the system proves worthy at night when freshmen can sleep soundly
without worries about unwanted intruders.

With a rising number of sexual crimes being committed against
women, their safety is also a concern.

The new card system has been well received by freshmen despite
general disdain to waiting a few seconds before entering a hall. Despite
the minor inconvenience, students are less than complaining about the
switch from locks to the card system; Silas Morse, ‘99, explains, “lt’s nice
because now we can visit the girls’ halls anytime.” Mr. Young agrees,
“[The security system] is more effective than nothing. It is impossible [to
check the identity of every entering person], unless we have an absolute
lock-down. We need to protect the people living in our doors and this is an
effective way.” The only danger is from lost cards, but they can be
immediately canceled when reported. Due to the positive results seen thus
far, the it is possible that the card-access system may see expansion in
Gaines Hall, Woods Creek Apartments and/or other university housing.

Card entry systems now adorn the doors of all the fresh-

. ‘i.
Betsy Green Phi‘ Photo Editor

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Quake rocks Mexico City

Mexico City——Thursday ‘s morning rush hour was interrupted in Mexico
City when a serious earthquake struck the area. The quake lasted for
approximately a minute and registered a 7.2 on the Richter Scale. Four
people are reported dead; roads and buildings were damaged. Scientists
report that the epicenter was about ninety miles from Mexico City.

NATO pauses air strikes

Bosnia—After an eleven hour meeting Wednesday night with the
Serbian President, U.S. diplomat Richard Holbrook announced Thursday
that NATO’s air strike, Operation Deliberate Force, against Serb forces in
Sarajevo would pause for three days. The temporary halt, it is planned, will
allow the Serbian military time to remove heavy artillery around Sarajevo.
The removal of these weapons will fulﬁll the main goal of Operation
Deliberate Force; however, the strike has not been permanently discontin-
ued. Peace talks will continue during the three day cease-ﬁre.

Belarus apologizes for attack
on U.S. hot air balloons

Belarus—Officials in the former Soviet Republic of Belarus have
issued an apology for Tuesday’s military attack on American hot air
balloons participating in an international competition which began Satur-
day in Switzerland. Two American crew members were killed when their
balloon was shot from the sky and crashed just inside the Belarussian
border. Four others were taken prisoner and later released after their
balloons were forced to the ground. The balloons’ ﬂight patterns over
Belarus had been cleared in advance, but Belarussian ofﬁcials maintain
that they ﬂew over a military area and would not respond to radio contact.
American officialsare calling the Belarus government’s apology inad-
equate.

Basketball lockout to end

New York——The National Basketball Association’s two-month-old
lockout of players is expected to end Monday which would practically
insure an on-time start to the 1995-96 season. At the core of this agreement
between the players and the union is a six year labor contract that, among
other things, increased the salary cap from $15.9 to $23 million and
guarantees players a minimum of $5 billion in league revenues. The only
obstruction to this deal is a challenge to the National Basketball Players’
Association by a small group of players, led by Michael Jordan and Patrick
Ewing, who wish to de—certify the union; thus, rendering the contract void.
In light of a vote on Tuesday by NBA players, support for the union is
overwhelming.

New government spending
plan proposed to avert shutdown

Washington, D.C.—President Bill Clinton and congressional leaders
agreed on Tuesday to propose a short-terrn spending plan that would avert
the impending government shutdown on October 1. Citing negative
publicity, both Democrats and Republicans decided that it would be in the
best interest of the country to extend its present spending policy until a
long-term spending plan could be put into law. House Speaker Newt
Gingrich and Senate Republican leader Bob Dole still hope to havea
spending bill in place by October 1.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

The Rin -mm,-Phi:

temb r 15 199

 

A

Film Society works to bring culture to Lex ‘

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

 

One of the most common criticisms
of Lexington, or any small town
for that matter, is the lack of cul-
ture and art.

For more than twenty years,
the Washington and Lee Film So-
ciety has worked to combat that
problem. Comprised of both stu-
dents and faculty, the organiza-
tion presents a series of critically-
acclaimed American and foreign
films. In the words of their mis-
sion, the series is designed to
present to the campus and the com-
munity noteworthy contemporary
ﬁlm achievements.

The group appeals to the gen-
eral population with such ﬁlms as
Reality Bites and Dazed and Con-
fused, but also select non-tradi-
tional and off-color ﬁlms for vari-
ety, said Co-President Julie
Doring, ’96. Instead of driving an
hour to Roanoke, students can go
to the Troubadour Theatre to see
art-house ﬁlms that do not play in
the mainstream theaters.

The movies are shown early on
Friday and Saturday evenings at
8:05 p.m. to avoid competing with
W&L’s rigorous social scene.

“It’s something to do during
that dead time between 7 and 10
p.m. before the parties get started,”
Doring said.

Films are selected by the
organization’s members from a
list of possible choices provided

Artist Lance Hidy
teaches workshop,
displays work

by film distributors. Between twelve
and ﬁfteen selections are screened each
academic year.

The ﬁlms attract members of the
W&L community, residents of Lex-
ington, and students from area col-
leges. 'VMI cadets are given special
permission to attend the screenings as

BY ANNE ALVORD
Phi News Editor

Visiting artist lance Hidywill offer computer work-
shops in Adobe Photoshop 3.0 on Tuesday, September 19,
from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.and Wednesday, September 20,

from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m..

Working from scanned images, Hidy will show partici-
pants ways to alter images, cut away backgrounds, and layer
for photomontage. Participants are required to have basic
Macintosh skills. The emphasis of the workshop will be on
the use of the program for creative expression.

Hidy will also demonstrate Penumbra, the multiple
master typeface he designed for Adobe Systems.

Anyone interested in joining the workshop should con-
tact Kathleen Olsen. Enrollment is limited to 20.

An exhibition of Hidy’s work is on display in du Pont
Gallery through October 5. Hidy will also give a lecture and
demonstration followed by a reception on Tuesday, Sep-

tember 19, at 5:30 in du Pont Hall.

j GOP WATCH

 

LCR donates rejected
contribution to Specter

Log Cabin Republicans, the national gay Republican group, has given
the returned $1000 contribution from the Dole campaign to the campaign
of Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Penn). Dole returned Log Cabin Republicans’
contribution Aug. 25 after learning they were the first Republican presi-
dential campaign to accept money from a gay organization. “Arlen Specter
is ﬁghting for an inclusive Republican Party,” said Richard Tafel, execu-
tive director of Log Cabin Republicans. “He is taking on the radical right,
while other GOP candidates like Senator Dole are bowing to them. He
knows the politics of exclusion will ruin the chances for a Republican
victory in ’96.” Specter responded, ‘‘I welcome the support of all Ameri-
cans who oppose discrimination and who seek a more limited government,
joining the principles of ﬁscal conservatism with social libertarianism.”
Specter’s presidential campaign has speciﬁcally targeted the Christian
Coalition and its leaders for harsh criticism. In July, LCR contributed
$1,000 to the presidential campaign of Gov. Pete Wilson (R-Calif), which
was also publicly accepted.

Wilson closes Iowa office

California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) has announced he is closing his
campaign office in Iowa, the site of the ﬁrst caucus in the Republican
nomination contest. Wilson’s strategists said the move was designed to
free the candidate to spend more time in the states where his presence will
do the most good, starting with New Hampshire. Wilson remains in single
digits in most national polls of GOP presidential primary voters. In one
recent poll in his home state, Wilson trailed the GOP front-runner, Senate
Majority Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan). Wilson’s opponents said his
decision to pull out of Iowa was money-driven. “This is the beginning of
the end of the Wilson campaign,” said Mark Merritt, campaign communi-
cations director for former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander (R). “He’Il
be out of the race by Thanksgiving.” Wilson reported raising $3.8 million
for his presidential campaign in the midyear report he ﬁled in July with the
Federal Election Commission——short of his goal of $20 million by the end
of 1995. Wilson campaign manager George Gorton denied rumors that the
campaign has missed payrolls and laid off staff. In a memo distributed to
the campaign staff, the campaign also announced that they would not
participate in any more straw polls. Wilson ﬁnished a distant eighth in the
Iowa straw poll in Ames last month, with just 1.2 percent of the vote.

Forbes considering Republican run

Malcolm S. “Steve” Forbes, Jr., publisher of Forbes magazine and others,
has said that he will decide within the next week whether to join the
Republican nomination race. Forbes has formed a presidential exploratory
committee which has inquired about a major television and radio event for
later in the month. Forbes said, “It’s looking much more green than red.”
Forbes would campaign as a pro—growth, pro-trade, ﬂat-tax Republican.

Colin Powell showing signs

of presidential

Fmr. Gen. Colin Powell may be beginning the ﬁrst stage of a run for
president. Powell will appearwith Barbara Walters on ABC’s “20/20” tonight
and then begin a 25-city book tour and media blitz. In Powell’s new
autobiography, My American Journey, he describes himself as “a ﬁscal
conservative with a social conscience” and says he is not comfortable with
either of the two major parties today. He also speculates that the time might
be right fora third party to represent the “sensible center.” A recentNewsweek
poll found that voters would tend to favor Powell over President Clinton by
51 percent to 41 percent if the retired general were to run with the GOP
nomination. The poll indicated Powell, as an independent, would run a distant
third, at 21 percent,.in a three-way race, with Clinton pulling 36 percent and
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole drawing 33 percent. Barbara Walters’ “20/
20” interview got the general to comment on several speciﬁc issues. Of
abortion, Powell said, “lt"s a matter between her [the woman considering
abortion], her doctor, her family and her conscience and her God, and if she
chooses to abort, that’s her choice, so that’s pro-choice.” On gun control: “I
am a gun owner, but, at the same time, I am willing to put up with some level
of inconvenience in acquiring guns or having guns in my possession that make
sure that I am a responsible citizen who should be allowed to have a gun.” On
prayer in school: “I have no problem if, on arriving at school, a quiet moment
is allowed for a child to do whatever a child wishes to do in that private
moment. I would be against any sort of stricture that says, ‘You will come in
and you will pray,’ and anything of that nature.” Ofa possible run, Powell
said, “If I were to decide to enter politics and run for the presidency, the easier
way to do it, I think, would be as a Republican,” though not ruling out an

independent or Democratic primary run.

GOP Watch is compiled by Alex Christensen

fever

well.

While most of the choices appeal to
a vast spectrum of viewers, some ﬁlms
have created controversy.

According to Film Society Advisor
Dick Grefe, The Last Temptation of
Christ caused an uproar. Some Lex-
ington residents called the ﬁlm blas-

THE jADVENT_URES 01''‘

Courtesy of Island Records
The Film Society will present Priscilla, Queen of the Deserttonight
and Saturday at 8:05 in the Troubadour Theatre.

phemous and objected to its being
shown.
David Lynch’s Blue Velvet also

received negative attention because of R

the picture’s explicit treatment of vio-
lence toward women.

Doring said last year’s screening of
Naked raised some eyebrows about the

ﬁlm ’s graphic violence and rape _,(

scenes.
Grefe said the past contro-

versy does not interfere with

the group’s selection process.
“If a movie is considered

and form their own opinions,”
Grefe said.

The Film Society receives
one-half of its budget from the
Executive Committee. Some 3
money is given by the Ofﬁce of
the Dean of the College for it
deems the films to be relevant
to the university’s curriculum.
One-ﬁfth of the organization’s

from patrons at the door.

The administration has re-
cently funded a project to line
the Troubadour’s walls with

the theater’s acoustics. Doring
expects that more viewers will
come to screenings as a result
of the renovations.

The Film Society has a full
schedule of ﬁlms to be screened
this fall including Kevin
Smith’s Clerks and the Cuban
ﬁlm Srrawbeny and Chocolate.
Showing tonight at 8:05 p.m. is

clan of ABBA-crooning drag
queens entitled TheAdventures
of Priscilla, Queen of the
Desert.

R. T. Smith named
editor of Shenandoah

From Phi staff reports

Rod T. Smith, poet, ﬁction writer,
and former writer-in-residence at Au-
burn University, has been named edi-
tor of Shenandoah, The Washington
and Lee University Review. He as-
sumes the position July 1.

Smith succeeds Dabney Stuart, who
has served as editor of Shenandoah
since 1988. Suart has returned to full-
time teaching in W&L’s department
of English.

A native of Charlotte, N.C., and
Griffin, Ga., Smith received his
bachelor’s degree in philosophy from
the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, and master’s degree in
English from Appalachian State Uni-
versity. He served as Alumni Writer-
in-Residence at Auburn University for
the last 19 years. He was the founding
editor of Cold Mountain Review and a
former editor of Southern Humanities
Review.

Smith’s poetry has appeared in
Shenandoah, as well as in other liter-
ary publications. He has poems in the
current issues of Georgia Review,
Carolina Quarterly, and The Literary
Review as well as in recent textbook
anthologies, Literature: A Contempo-
rary Introduction (MacMi1lan), Imag-
ining Worlds (McGraw-Hill), andNew
Worlds of Literature (Norton).

Smith has published more than a
dozen books, with three more forth-
coming: Faith: Stories, Black Belt
Press; Trespasser, LSU Press; and
Hunter-Gatherer, Livingston Press, to
be published next spring.

In 1988, Smith was awarded the
Alabama Governor’s Award for
Achievement by an Artist. His numer-
ous honors include the Emily Dickinson
Prize and the John Maseﬁeld Poetry
Prize. He has been the recipient of an
NEA Literature Fellowship, a Fellow-
ship to the Yeats School, Sligo, Ireland
and twice awarded an Alabama Coun-
cil for the Arts Literature Fellowship
(1986 and 1994). ’

Shenandoah was founded in 1950
by a group of W&Lstudents, including
authors Tom Wolfe and William
Hoffman. In addition to material by
Wolfe, Hoffman, and other students,
the ﬁrst issues of Shenandoah included
works by e e Cummings, William Carlos
Williams, Ray Bradbury, and Donald
Davidson. The magazine has contin-
ued to publish famous writers,
includingW.H. Auden, William
Faulkner, and Reynolds Price.

Smith is the first full-time editor in
Shenandoah ’s 45-year history, a posi-
tion that has traditionally been heldby
a member of W&L’s teaching English
faculty. He will also serve as chairman
of the Glasgow Endowment Commit-
tee, which brings distinguished novel-
ists, poets, dramatists, and critics to the
university. The program was estab-
lished at Washington and Lee in 1960
by the late Arthur G. Glasgow.

Smith’s tenure as editor also coin-
cides with the establishment of the ﬁrst
full complement of offices for
Shenandoah on the second ﬂoor of the
Troubadour Theatre.

important, people need to see it X

funds comes from donations "‘

carpet in an effort to improve gt

the Australian picture about a A

‘at.

.$ .-

 

l<Zeet> some eye on Tile BALL  

BONNY ROMM PERFORMS TONIGHT AT THE GHQ

of.

A

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 1995

PAGE 3

The Scoop

(ﬁourtncyis favorites)

Friends 8 pm Thur NBC
What is the deal with that
girl from China? Rachel
and Ross belong together!

Seinfeld 9 pm Thur
NBC.

Where can a show go after
seven seasons? I hope they
have some new material;
last year was stale exclud-
ing two very memorable
menage a trois episodes. As
always, I want to see more
of Kramer!

GR to pm Thur NBC
It can't get any better. This
is the best show since
Cheers. I finally got my
roommate (pre-med)
hooked, and she loves it
almost as much as I do.

ill.l. TIIEVIEW

TO

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

“ "The power is yours to set the trends and shape the
schedule. All you need is your remote... ” -TV Guide

Excitement, heartbreak, drama, zaniness, poignancy and
wit are soon to arrive in vivid technicolor at the W&L
campus, in thirty and sixty minute time slots.

Within the next week, television’s four major networks,
not to mention its many additional cable stations, will unfurl
a slew of new shows designed to move you, the viewer, to
new levels of laughter and compassion.

“If there’s one word to describe this fall,” TV Guide’s
September 16 issue reads, “it’s big.”

And big it is. A record 42 new series willjoin television’s
prime time alone, with many more miniseries, sports shows,
syndicated and cable shows, and specials ﬁlling out the
other 20-some hours of each day.

Across the channels, many new faces will peer out at the
student eager for distraction. And along with the new faces
will come new twists altogether in the tried and true formu-
las of sitcoms past.

CBS’ "If Not For You" casts two young professionals,
each separately involved in a somewhat dull, sparkless
relationship, as an accidental couple drawn together at first
sight. The show's executive producer, Larry Levin, asserts
that "If Not For You" is “not just cute TV, all neatly wrapped
up,” but instead “an exploration of couples...more offbeat”

BY COURTNEY E. MILLER
Phi Features Editor

Right this moment, as you are read-
ing this, somewhere very far away
someone else is doing something else
entirely unrelated to anything.

Also right now, a man thirty-ﬁve
years of age is preparing to reveal his
amazing extra-sensory powers to an
audience of non-believers--Washing-
ton and Lee students. Coincidence? I
think not.

The Ronny Romm show is one of
this country's most sought after enter-

‘ tainers. l t has been described by former

non-believers as "an extraordinary ex-
perience in entertainment."

Student Activities will present the
Ronny Romm Show, demonstrations
of ESP and hypnosis, tonightat 10 p.m.
in the GHQ. The audience will become
part of the show by volunteering to
challenge Romm's hypnotism and ESP
powers.

Romm's show promises to avoid
cliches such as, "reply hazy, ask again
later," other common clairvoyant de-
vices like the "Magic Eight Ball."

Names and numbers known only
to the members of the audience are
revealed with startling accuracy. Even
their innermost thoughts and personal
questions are revealed and answered.
(Let's hope that regrettable hook-up
doesn't slip out.)

The audience can also expect en-

lightenment about hypnotism. Is it
sleep or some altered state? And why
do people under hypnosis respond to
the slightest suggestion?

Romm will answer these questions
as he draws the audience into a side-
splitting demonstration of what hyp-
notism, and the human mind can do.
(We W&L students have already tapped
into that 90 percent unused brain power
trying to pass Organic Chemistry.)

The audience participants will en-
gage in such activities as a body build-
ing competition, speaking martian, or
becoming a prima ballerina or even an
army drill sergeant. (Watch out VMI !)
Of course, all the above activities will
be performed under the inﬂuence of a
swinging’ crystal ball. If we are lucky,

Guns and guitar make

The
Facts
Title:

Assistant
Professor of

than typical twosome series.

The powers that be at Fox, meanwhile, have slated their
new pairing, "Ned and Stacey," for the time slot following
the ever tacky, ever beloved "Melrose Place." The show
follows "Partners", a new sitcom by the creator of "Friends",
at 9:30, and producer Michael Weithorn promises in the
show’s unlikely combination of the self-involved business-
man Ned and leftish newswoman Stacey an “intelligent
character comedy that’s really about the relationship.” Fox
may not be quite so easy to turn off, after all.

In the midst ofthe sea ofnew faces filling out television’s
prime time in the forthcoming season, some familiar faces
will also be appearing.

British screenstar Nancy Travis (Three Men and a Little
Lady, 50 I Married An Axe-Murderer) becomes half of the
hectic relationship behind "Almost Perfect" on CBS, while
Jeff Foxworthy of “You might be a redneck...” fame be-
comes a father and business owner this fall on ABC’s "The
Jeff Foxworthy Show." Actor Corey Feldman (Stand By
Me, The ’Burbs) also joins the world of weekly television,
as one of three techno-geeks on CBS’s "Dweebs."

Even with so varied a list of names and faces, some
common themes emerge from this season’s batch of shows
vying for prime time. All the networks apparently plan to
convert America’s current infatuation with the legal process
into Nielsen ratings, and a host of new sitcoms and shows
will center around the courtroom. Such shows include "The
Home Court","The Pursuit of Happiness", "Murder One",
"John Grisham’s The Client", "JAG", and "Courthouse."

Another theme ofthis season seems to be the plight ofthe

maybe even Elvis will make an appear-
ance. (Personally, I would like to see
good ole Ronny use his powers help
me pass Russian 261.)

Warning! This show is not to be
taken seriously. Please consult a li-
censed professional therapist before
making any drastic life-style changes.

Next to reading your horoscope
every day in the Roanoke Times, or
hitting the local palm reader at the state
fair, this is the closest we students will
get to the realm of the occult--the un-
known.

So, tonight, bring your sense of
humor, and an open mind. Take some
time off from the most stressful event
at W&L —-Rush-— and journey into the .
Ronny Romm Zone. .

Gibbs spen

   

IEST REASONS
IGNORE YOUR HOMEWORK

single man of the '90s ("Hudson Street," "Charlie Grace,"
"The Drew Carey Show," and "The Single Guy") and his
female counterpart ("Almost Perfect," "Caroline in the
City," "The Naked Truth," and "Can’t Hurry Love").

Amidst the ﬂurry of new shows being launched this
season, expect some old favorites (or not-such-favorites) as
well. Among those returning are Fox’s "Married...With
Children," "The Simpsons," "Melrose Place," "90210," and
"Party of Five," together with NBC’s "Mad About You,"
"Wings," "Frasier," "Friends," "Seinfeld," "ER," and "Sis-
ters."

CBS will bring back "60 Minutes," "The Nanny,"
"Murphy Brown," "Murder, She Wrote," "Picket Fences,"
and "Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman"; ABC meanwhile plans
to air another season of "Lois & Clark," "Ellen," "Grace
Under Fire," and "Family Matters."

If the television screen alone fails to offer enough enter-
tainment (or distraction) to the seasoned viewer, another
screen is now also available for diversion: the computer
screen. Some television networks now have addresses
along the information superhighway, at which much more
thorough information can be learned regarding upcoming
shows. Among such addresses are those of NBC (http://
www.nbc.com) and CBS (http://www.cbs.com), and even
the magazine of the entertainment industry, Entertainment
Weekly (http://pathﬂnder.com./ew/).

With so many shows this fall to choose from, every
evening promises to offer at least one or two good excuses
to take a break from studying and turn on the television. The
hardest decision may well be which channel to tune into.

Ronny Roan,
hypnotist,
performs
comedy
routines
around his
mystic
extra-
sensory
perception

powers .

 

lici Photo

ding time in

office instead of in line

to retire. You ﬁnd

i rm:-tr-oo my this asysoon  I ,
maybe, just maybe. you'll learn  rlbou .r:nelf..’f

 

Desperado — Two and a half

One of the greatest surprises of the past
few years was a little ﬁlm namedElMariachi,
created by Robert Rodriguez. The film was
shot on such a low budget he couldn’t even
afford credits, and when the movie was fr-
nally picked up by a larger distribution com-
pany, the credits they added cost more than
the entire rest of the film had. But as those of
you who saw it at the Film Society can attest,
it was a little witty, off-beat piece about a
mariachi player mistaken for a hit-man.

So when Rodriguez’ independent success
finally landed him the much sought afterbig—
studio contract, it is understandable that he
wanted to build off his previous success. The
result is Desperado, a quasi-sequel to El
Mariachi. I say ‘quasi-’ because although he
borrows some of the same characters, the
actors, the mood and the storyline couldn’t
be more different. These differences are dis-
tracting, but in the end they become nothing
more than annoyances and the film is down-
right enjoyable.

One thing I found disturbing was how the
film makes references back to El Mariachi,
even though few in Desperado’s audience
will have seen it. At the same time, so much
has changed from the first ﬂlm that those
who did see El Mariachi will be equally
confused. How did the guitar player become
such an artisan with a gun? Where the heck
did the mariachi’s equally deadly friends
come from? The point is, Rodriguez seems to
be trying to satisfy two separate formulas,
one for a big-budget typically ﬂashy Holly-
wood film, and another for a similarly quirky
follow—up to El Mariachi.

An even greater problem for the ﬁlm is its

page sihouettes of Antonio Banderas and the
hard-edged copy, I was expecting an open-
throttle action film. Instead we get a very
stylish tongue-in-cheek parody of the typi-
cal Van Damme flick. Rodriguez takes ev-
ery opportunity both to display fantastic
slow-motion leaps and rolls and to throw in
unexpected flashes of silly humor. If you can
go into the film not expecting hard-core
seriousness and tension, you’ll emerge both
laughing at the humor and stunned by the
stylish visuals.

In fact, if I had to choose one word for this
film, it would be stylish. Rodriguez’s suc-
cess with El Mariachi enabled him to cap-
ture a hip supporting cast, including Quentin
Tarantino (who needs someone to tell him to
stick to directing and writing and to leave the
acting to others), Steve Buscemi (Reservoir
Dogs’ Mr. Pink) and Cheech Marin. Hunk-
of-the-moment Antonio Banderas, leading-
lady Salma Hayek, and the extra-smooth
drug lord Joaquim de Almeida (the Colum-
bian intelligence agent in Clear and Present
Danger) round out the leading roles. They all
do fine jobs, but at heart this movie has got
nothing to do with character, plot, action, or
dialogue. This film is all about camera angles
and moody lighting, with a few neat-o stunts
thrown in for good measure.

Orson Welles once compared being a
movie director to having access to the ulti-
mate toy box, and this seems to be the
philosophy of Rodriguez here. Having made
his previous feature for a few thousand, he
clearly loved the millions he could use for
this one, and he seems to want to make sure
all that cash is seen on the screen. It is almost
as if he were afraid that the old friends back
home might not believe the reports in the
local paper about how much Rodriguez had
to work with, and so he had to prove it to
them. The end result is a weird mix, as a
seedy bar in a crummy town is filmed in what
can only be called an opulent manner.

The result is showy but fun. If you can go
into this film expecting neither another El
Mariachi nor a straight-out bad-ass action

marketing strategy. Judging from the full-

nan--69,2: this film now. while it‘s3 ‘stillon
bucks you 'u ‘pay if you see it outside Lexington

 

probably see it on videotape.’ sun, p:gba'b‘ty;'“B¢ne::

 

be better served on your education, its  ' .

ﬂick, you’ll enjoy it immensely.

  
 

cm-okay, so there have been bet ’ films; ’Neve'_x:lu.~._

1}-It happens to be on HBO, and you '1: blowing o‘mqmo_r_miv's mding.vA1though _y_oa::time‘svjou_ld probably
. . .9"’F°. l?§f¢d» 39 80x8head and wiItciI’ii« ” I if I  if . -I

0-Even if it's free and your best friend said he pester laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks.‘ _

Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste iton this, ('I'lxere’s always’M'l’V.)*?' '9 ‘-;: -   

 

    
   
    

1

 

Management
Birthplace:
Velasco, TX
("It no
longer
existsl It
was annexed
by another‘
town.")
Family: A
19-year-old
daughter,
Ginny; and
two sons:
17-year-old
Jonathan,
and 4-year-
old Michael
Greek Af-
filiation:
Pi Kappa
Alpha
Favorite
Food:
Chicken
enchiladas
with white
sauce

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

It’s midnight—the night before a
major exam. You need help and you
need it now. No problem, if you have
Professor Philip A. Gibbs teaching your
class. Chances are he’ll still be chug-
ging away in his office. The question
is, “Why?”

“I think I ’m just a very slow worker,”
laughs Gibbs. “I’ve got students who
come in and tell me to get a life! I got
in the habit of working late hours when
I was a Ph.D. student, which wasn’t all
that long ago.”

However, Gibbs does have some
time to devote to leisure activities. “I
read things that I don’t have to read,
which is always nice,” says Gibbs. His
recent material includes The Alche-
mist, a book by Paul Coelho. “It’s
about a person on a journey of self-
discovery,” explains Gibbs. He also
likes to see a lot of movies, with Clueless
being one of his most recent viewings.
When asked if he saw any similarities
between W&L students and the main

characters, Gibbs decided to take the
Fifth.

The professor’s eyes brighten when
he talks about the weekends he spends
with his son, Michael. “We play a lot.
We go to what he calls the “Big Play-
ground,” which is Kids’ Playce, and
Sweet Things. And we go to listen to
the clock bells ring at Lee Chapel,
which is one of his favorites.”

Prof. Gibbs did his undergraduate
work at the University of Texas, a
place he says is much different from
W&L. “When I was at UT, the Long-
horns were a nationally ranked football
team. So, football was the reason that
all of us went to school,” relates Gibbs.
“Youcanimagine my amazementwhen
I went to the first football game at
W&L, which was Homecoming. When
I arrived, the stands were practically
empty. They ﬁlled for half-time, and
after the queen was announced, they
emptied. At Texas, you stood in line to
get football tickets early in the mom-
ing.” Imagine that....

Despite the lack of a major football
following, Prof. Gibbs loves W&L,
and loves his profession. “I never want

I really don’t!
something that you enjoy doing, and
then retirement is not a goal any longer.
As long as you’re physically and men-
tally able to do it, then you keep doing
it. Besides, I have a 4-year-old. I won’t
be able to retire—he’ll be in college
until I’m seventy-ﬁve or so!”

Prof. Gibbs wants his students to
view him as a tough but fair professor.
‘‘I want them to see me as a real human
being, one that they can relate to. I
think, just like everybody, I want to
have an impact.”

Don’t worry, Professor. Your stu-
dents think of you in just that way.
Junior Keith Beckerle had Gibbs for
Financial Statement Analysis last
spring, and summed up the opinions of
many of his classmates when he said,
“Gibbs was very demanding. I learned
a lot from him during the short tom,
and when I finished the class, it was
like overcoming an obstacle.”

Until his contract expires next year,
Prof. Gibbs’ students will continue to
overcome--and learn from—the ob-
stacles placed in front of them by their
workaholic teacher.

MEN IN PANTYHOSE AND HEELS

    
    

BY MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

 

Imagine for a second a place where men
shook their behinds in mini-skirts and walked
in high heels with pantyhoses hiding their hairy
legs. Imagine pseudo-masculine straight men
who made love to these drag queens, fulﬁlling
theirdark, closeted homosexual fantasies. Imag-
ine a place on the gritty, dirty edge of American
society, a place where the poor find themselves
trapped and the rich only come to visit and
partake of its erotictreasures. Imaginea muscle-
bound hustler named Apollo who pimped his
body and provided sexual tricks for cash to
support his drug habit.

This is the world that the characters in Bruce
Benderson’s novel, User, occupy. Benderson
creates human beings we often don’t think
about and usually avoid meeting in a dark alley.
The story starts in a seamy after-hours bar
where Apollo swivels his torso, tempting un-
knowing customers to experience sexual treats.
In a drug-induced rage, he slams the bouncer,
Casio, against the wall as he stumbles out of the
theater.

We follow Apollo as he hustles for enough
money to get another shot of Dilaudid. We see
him make contact with other souls with no
where to go in life. On his trail is a homosexual
detective named Juan Pargero who sleeps with
Tina, the drag queen owner of the after-hours
bar.

Meanwhile, Apollo freeloads off his former
AIDS-infected lover who writes in his diary on
occassion:

“Dear Death Diary,

Apollo’s my pain pal. In the first place, he
confirms all my theories about drug use. At this
point in the game, I’m an alienated
sonofab****—always trying to sniff out the
hypocrisy of so-called common sense.

Being HIV-positive, I’m lately goingthrough
a period where I’m feeling a lot of physical
pain. Recently I spent thirty-six hours in one of
our city’s glorious emergency rooms. l’ve got
an axe to grind with those licensed pillpushers.
It is my opinion that access to ending pain is
controlled by a greedy, insensitive bunch.”

We also meet Casio’s son, Baby Pop, who
was molested when he was young and has taken
to selling sex to get by. He dresses in three
layers of clothes and carries an algebra book, a

Bible, and a Stephen King book, telling every-
one he is going to college. When he’s not
tricking, he’s searching for Apollo, the cabron
who hurt his father, and sleeping wherever
there is empty space.

These are the characters that Benderson
creates for us to view from a distance. His story
ﬂows quickly and effortlessly. His writing
sparkles with realistic and sharp detail, present-
ing haunting images for our sometimes inno-
cent eyes.

User is a story about human survival, about
the daily struggle simplytolive.The characters
in this novel never aspire to anything greater
than what they are. They try to ﬁnd dignity in
the circumstances they make for themselves.
Sometimes they succeed and sometimes they
fail.

This book has no happy ending because
Benderson understands that life doesn’t oper-
ate like those Disney films you see to escape the
insanity. Instead, he brings the insanity of a
drug—filled, sex—crazed world to the reader with
eloquence and sensitivity. Even more, he re-
minds us in this let-us-blame-them political
environment that sometimes we aren’t much
different than they are.

 

 

Want to recapture
that youthful inno-

Z’

  

Remember your

Want a free date

Then apply to de-
liver newspapers

 
   

    
  

Dondero

Incorporated advertising specialties

promotional products

  

 

I
la  Custom
Engraving
on
plaques
H trophies

-trophies 
. custom engraving

0 T—Shirts
0 Hats

3 Sweats
‘Jackets

  
 

  

  
   

MAIN 0FllCE&SCREEN PRINT SHOP

PO. Box 408 I State Route 710 West

Fairﬁeld, Virginia 24435

Phone: 540-348-6753 & 377-6753
Fax: 540-377-6418

 

  

fl . .Back to School . . .New Area Codﬁ
Let us make the transition
easier for you!

We offer the following services:

     

Screen Printed Textiles

  
 
 
    

SHOWROOM
17 1/2 South Randolph Street
Iexington, Virginia 24450

Phone: 540-463- 2618

copies business cards
word processing flyers
typing forms & applications
resumes faxing
and more  ,
0
e/zraaaabo» Z44
P.O. Box 1409 0 12 W. Nelson Street

Across from the Post Office

_ J

PHONE: 540-463-1712 ' FAX: 540-463-9455

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 19!

 

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

money time

amzn/(,'r>//r_g: Rrlirrmnil I-,‘4um:.. Fund.

an't afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax deferral and give your

Consider this: Set aside just $100 each

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve -—
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over 1.7 million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not

to compound and grow.

 

paper route?

cence?

with our hottie
editor?

  for
The Ring-tum Phi

® TOYOTA
"TE REEL T MSRP starring Under $10,500

  

 month beginning at age 30 and you can join them?
..........I..........................  accumulate over$172,1o9*bythetime Calltodayandlearn howsimpleitis
I . . . . . . O . . é you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you
. \ I /' / \ : : . . . . . . . . ‘S you'll have to budget $219 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on
’  I  : : : E to reach the same goal. your side.
1; D >1‘ L et ‘pg : : ﬂ M 1;? :  sum planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.
I . ' . ‘,3: A A
Your Student 3 I ” W’ I  % Ensming the future ‘ . t ‘
: : 601786 we/mace : 3 for those who shape it.“ ' I
G0 H ung Iy : 3 a meal : \ /
I . O */Lrm/rilrrg an [n!(rr.II ml: of 7 % credited In TIA/1 RtIir(m:nlAnniziti'e.1. TH; I:t1[t'l;l wt? .10/t/y In Jﬁaw lb: /pmgultr and effect rampaundihg. lower or Mgbtr ralav iwm/19
I . . prrrduct very dz/ftrcril mm/1.1. CREFczrILf1mi‘e.x are dutriéultd 15y TIA/I-CREF Individual and lnulilutmnal Scrvicw.
 :ooooooooooooooooo
. I
The $100 Meal Ticket :
Redeemable for :
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner : BIG WEEKENDS,
 =  SUNWEARV
I ent a wise ort e price 0 a .
. . . , , ' motel room!
Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties .'. 4635350 or (703)978_2416
Fresh Salads & Soups : 
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees - o
Candlelight Diners :
I
I
Give Your Student E %§izPi§vGE[iii}ziIi::1Aé<A’S9Ig -&sEGL(L)  
3 H°“‘e°°°k-ed Mea‘ W“ 0“ = §§£E5:§’..:‘:;‘.,i‘;tZ:::,‘:L§:,£r;n::;% teé=Mesr=©erncu8s=rpe.
Point Card ' - .
I Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
I Daytona and Panama City Beach. Cl8OVefS alley 203 n, main st
9 : Ca 1 1-800-648-4849
a I‘ S . 483-7440
I
I
19 W. as ington St., Lexington, V 24450 :
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 
 

SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.

MSRP BASED ON TAX, TAGS, TITLE, FREIGHT, OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE.

@‘TOYOTA

I Love What You Do For Me

 

"/

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 1995

Ellie ﬁling-tum Iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Greeks: Sinners or Saints?

Fraternity Rush is underway and raging with the
intensity of past wild fires on Long Island. Like
the uneontrollabe fires that burned the Hamptons,
Rush will be short-lived and forever change the
lives of many people. Freshmen males will join the
ranks of other Washington and Lee Greek men. To
some, this will be the happiest time of their lives.
To others, the induction of yet another crop of
innocents will perpetuate an essentially flawed
system.

The fraternities at W&L present us with an
interesting paradox. No other institution is so well-
respected and so reviled at the same time.

In terms of power, fraternities run this school.
Nearly 90 percent of undergraduate men are
members. They run student organizations,
monopolize the social scene, and continue some of
W&L’s long—held and beloved traditions. It is no
wonder that the issues of Winter Rush and Fall
pledgeship dominated the headlines last year. To
some members of our community, this is
frightening. Indeed, such a concentration of power
in one source can be intimidating.

Fraternitites get a bad rap, however. In the age of
political correctness, it’s too easy to point to
fraternity guys and blame them for all of society’s
evils. We should avoid the stereotypes of Greeks as
rapists, drunkards, and bigots.

In fact, fraternities promulgate some of society’s
most dearly held virtues. They champion
volunteerism, stress academic success, and promote
life—long friendship. The majority of fraternity
members are responsible young adults. For the
most part, they are open-minded citizens who care
about their neighbors. We bet if you actually sit
down and think about it, you probably can count
Greek men among your best friends at W&L.

Rush will soon be over. The Class of 1999 will
be full of green pledges proudly displaying their
new letters. We challenge those generally opposed
to fraternities to not pre-judge them. After all, they
continue to be the outstanding young individuals
who were talented enough to walk among us.

Quote of the Week

“Drag queens haven’t been in since Andy Warhol
died.”
Sophomore woman anticipating
Film Society ’s showing of Priscilla

@112 lliing-tum ilﬁlri

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

  

Associate Editor . . . . . . . , , _ ,_Michae| Hewren
News Editors ...................................................... ..Anne Alvord, Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor .....Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter
Features Editors ............................................................... ..Courtney Miller, Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonist: .... ..Phil Flickinger
Business Manager ...... ..Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . ...Iennifer Grant

Advertisement Composition Artist ................................................................ ..Mark Tobias
Circulation Manager ,,,Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-mm Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060

PAGE 5

RENEGADE RUSH COUNSELORS. ..

 

IS THIS,
LIKE, A
FRATERNITY

fl.
E
m

j 1‘-

Walnut

 

 
  

    
  

,,,uH...
YEAH! WAIT
HERE ‘TIL

I 1 CHECK
:1 our.

  

*. . -1 ~ ."
9 T -. T ..-
.» .,_v ' . '

--  .-  9-I3 .~ 
_ .1 ."'.. .- ‘
..- _ . u.‘ L‘

First-hand lessons learned in Alaska

NovA
CLARKE,
’96

I had a hard time deciding what I
should devote this column to, after all
with all the scandals in Washington,
there is plenty to write about. But I
decided instead to devote this column
to my summer vacation. Don’t worry,
I’m not going to spend the next several
paragraphs discussing how my family
went to the beach.

I actually spent this summer in
Fairbanks, Alaska, doing research on
remote sensing. Although I could go
on about the joys of staring at a com-
puter screen for eight hours a day and
getting paid for it, I learned some im-
portant things aside from my research.

While I am on the topic of my
research, I’ll just mention a little about
what I did. I was working off a Depart-
ment of Defense grant to research
threats to the Arctic Ocean and the
Arctic Circle in general. My particular
project involved looking at an area in
the Urals known as the Chelyabinsk
reactor complex. It is where the Rus-
sians did a lot of their early experimen-
tation with nuclear weapons and fuels.
From the satellite images I was looking
at, it is a really a gorgeous area with a
lot of green pasture land and ﬁelds and
a ton of lakes.

Unfortunately, it is home to the
most radioactivelycontaminated place
on Earth, Lake Karachay, which is a
100 times worse than Chernobyl. The
Russian government was dumping
nuclear waste directly into the lakes
and streams since the early 1950s and
there have been a couple of accidents
there as well. The population (100,000)
in the area has the highest incident rate
of leukemia in the world. The Russian
government ﬁnally stopped dumping

in the late eighties, but they have never
fully admitted the extent to which the
area has been contaminated. Non-Rus-
sian scientists are still not allowed into
the area.

It’s knowing about places like this
that makes me happy to be in America
and have a free and open press that at
times obsesses about disasters and trag-
edies. There is no way what happened
in Chelyabinsk could have been cov-
ered up for 40 years if it had happened
in America. Journalists would have
been suspicious of any area where there
are signs that say, “Drive fast with your
windows up.”

Back to Alaska, I had a great time
there, driving around and getting to see
parts of the interior. I also had the
opportunity to meet a lot of interesting
people. One of the things I noticed ﬁrst
is the number of guns they have there;
Alaska is a state that fully supports the
Second Amendment. On one of our
trips to downtown Fairbanks, we went
into some pawn shops and saw wall
after wall of guns. There were signs in
the entrances of many of the buildings
on campus saying that guns were pro-
hibited in the buildings. In most places
I’ve been, this is common sense, but
due to the large percentage of people
who carry weapons in Alaska it needs
to be clearly stated on all buildings.

This is one state where the assault
weapons ban did not go over well at all.
One of the guys I worked with shoots
assault weapons in competition. This
was not some uneducated person, ei-
ther. He’s getting his doctorate in at-
mospheric science. We talked about
the assault weapons ban for a while and
how it was all basically a PR ploy
because if gun manufacturers remove
one small piece of a gun it is no longer
banned and that one piece is not hard to
get. Although he did not support
Clinton’s stand on the assault weapons
ban, he also was not a supporter of
Dole, whom he saw as using the issue
and not really caring what happened

with the ban as long as he looks good.
I met a lot of people who hunt using
guns but I personally thought that the
guys we ran into on the North Slope
going bow-hunting (which is the only
type of hunting permitted in a lot of
areas) were doing something a lot
more challenging.

Alaska has the greatest percentage
of wilderness among the 50 states and
that is a large area since Alaska is the
largest state in the Union (sorry to
disappoint you Texans). Most of this
wilderness is also federal land. This
does not make many Alaskans too fond
of the federal government. A friend of
mine told me about a trading post in
Circle where there is a sign that says if
you are a federal worker, we do not
want your business. Park Service and
Bureau of Land Management people
do not wear their unifonns very often
and do not go into the ﬁeld alone.

Although ideally I would like to see
as much of the wilderness preserved as
possible, I can see the complaint about
too much federal land. If the same per-
centage of Virginia were federal land as
Alaska we would all be living in an area
about the size of the counties immedi-
ately surrounding the District of Co-
lumbia. Not all of this land was federal
to begin with. Some was incorporated
into federal land as late as the 1980s.

I spent a weekend in Wrangell-St.
Elias National Park. Incorporated by
President Carter in 1980, it is the larg-
est national park in the country. Unfor-
tunately, those people who had been
living on the land were not consulted
prior to having their homes made into
a national park. There was one build-
ing off the road going into Chitnawhere
the former owner had spray-painted a
message to the effect that the Park
Service had taken his land, his money
and his family. I deﬁnitely understand
the anger this man felt; but, at the same
time, after being in Wrangell, I believe
it is an area that must be preserved. We
went to McCarthy (pop. 70 or so in the

summer) which is in the heart of
Wrangell. To get there you have to
travel 60 miles down the worst high-
way in America. The highway is dirt
laid over the old railroad bed, and none
of the railroad was removed before this
happened. It took us two and a half
hours to get to McCarthy which in-
cluded frequent breaks for the bath-
room and general car sickness. Once
you get to the end of the road, you have
to take a handtram across a river and
then walk a mile to the town. It is well
worth the trip though; the area is sur-
rounded by glaciers and some of the
highest peaks in North America.
McCarthy is a definite argument for
non-development. If the road was paved
and a bridge built across the river, a lot
of what makes McCarthy and the park
so unique would be lost_.,;

Here is one of the central problems
for the Park Service: whether to make a
park accessible to all and make every-
one happy or to leave it inaccessible
except to those who really want to see it
and risk the park being labeled as use-
less to the majority of the population
who can’t make use of it. While the
latter choice may mean the possibility
of being removed from the Park System
or losing funding, I go for that choice. I
have a friend from this summer who is
planninga multi-day trip into Wrangell,
including crossing a glacier, climbing a
mountain and doing some ice-climbing
for next summer. I’m hoping to go on
that trip and when I go down the
McCarthy highway I hope it is as hor-
rible as it was this summer.

I could go on about Alaska for a
while. The Brooks Range, my fellow
interns and the sort of family we be-
came over ten weeks, or the twenty
hours of daylight, but I won’t. I’m
heading back to Alaska next summer
because there is a lot of it I haven’t
seen. I think it is someplace everyone
should visit. Just don’t go in one of
Detroit ’s contributions to hell on Earth,
the RV.

Could the EPA be our real enemy?

disregard for aesthetics

in favor of rapid

should respect this fact by promoting policies that

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

Even as we speak the legislative wheels are
turning in Washington, seeking a workable consen-
sus on how U.S. environmental protection policies
ought to be overhauled.

The mainstream view on Capitol Hill now seems
to be that the EPA has raged out of control for many
years, slowing economic growth and hurting U.S.
businesses. In any case, I, as a conservative, oppose
these latest Republican efforts, and I should like to
explain more fully why I do so.

First, let us say at the outset that Republicans are
dreadfully wrong to assume, as they so often do, that
environmental policy can be crafted by reference
solely to cost—benefit analysis. Although it is cer-
tainly true that environmental laws can retard eco-
nomic growth and take away jobs, it is nonetheless
the case that other less quantiﬁable issues
are involved.

Putting dollar ﬁgures on all of our problems and
running the appropriate equations is a cowardly and
inhuman way to run a government; it is a method
worthy of bureaucrats, but not of statesmen.

So what are those intangible considerations on
which sane environmental policies depend? Let me
suggest only two.

First, conservation has vital aesthetic merits. We
are all familiar with the tasteless urban sprawl that
afflicts our modern landscape; this phenomenon is,
in the final analysis, a direct consequence of our

»

economic progress.

In my hometown a constant reminder of this
stark choice once stood in the form of a gigantic
neon sign towering over what the Indians appropri-
ately (at the time) called Happy Valley; it read
“WAL-MART: DISCOUNT CITY.” Of course, the
world needs its Wal-Marts; but, by the same token,
there are few of us who would wish to live next door
to one.

Quality oflife, then, is hard to
measure, but it is impossible to

maintain the basic integrity and health of our
natural surroundings.

The soul of America, today no less than two
hundred years ago, is located not in her cities, but in
her countryside.

And so it is for these principal reasons that I
oppose the effort currently afoot to weaken our
environmental laws. I should also say, however,
that my support for conserva-
tion has its limits.

I do not agree with radical

deny the positive effects a beau-
tiful natural setting can have.

(C

leftist egalitarians, for in-

, h h I
Let us also remind ourselves After all: when 3133:: v:e(c)iiSs?rlilt)tilfic(:: yof
just what it is to be a conserva- R e p u b I l c a n S wealth can save ourrace from
trve. After all, when Republt- put...pr0ﬁts ahead of an ecological apocalypse.

cans put business proﬁts ahead
of quality living, and job cre-
ation ahead of traditional life and
values, they are not really
being “conservative”; they are
being greedy.

quality living, and
job creation ahead of
traditional life and
values, they are not

Nor do I have any sympathy
for those scatterbrains who
distort the dangers posed by
(largely unsubstantiated)
phenomena like global warm-
ing to insist that mankind has

The distinction may not be
apparent to some, but I promise
that it is there. True conserva-
tism is not about money; it is
about preserving the way of
life of a given people——in our
case, the American people.

Since our nation has been historically rural, like
most others, true conservatism naturally should
value this heritage as a matter of course. No one is
suggestingthatwetumourlaptopsintoploughshares
and go back to the farm.

But I would assert that nature historically has
played a tremendously important role in the daily
lives of the American people; any true conservative

really

“conservative”;they
are being greedy. ”

only, say, ﬁve years to “save”
the planet.

These ideological (even
pathological) spins on con-
servation only serve to dis-
credit it as a movement and
as an idea.

In the end, I would only remind Americans when
they consider the aforementioned Republican pro-
posals that we are not just building a high-tech
economy in this country; we are also rebuilding a
civilization. And some of that civilization’s most
fundamental roots are in an appreciation for the
power and beauty of nature.

No good conservative could suggest otherwise.

being

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 1995

Seattle, Wash.: City of romance/coffee

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

A belated hello and welcome back
to Greenland to all of my raving fans.
I know, as always, you’re panting to
know what l’ve been up to and how my
summer was (if you’re not, my thera-
pist says not to tell me otherwise be-
cause my delusions are healthy). Re-
member how at the end of SpringTenn
everyone told me (sincerely, I’m sure)
to “Have a good summer”? Well, I did.

This summer could not have been
anything but great. Not only did I live
with my fabulously talented and gor-
geous boyfriend Steve (who is getting
a copy of this paper...Hi, Steve), but I
lived in Seattle, The Coffee Capital of
the World. I was in heaven.

When I arrived in Seattle, I quickly
resumed my career in The Exciting
World of French Fashion as a sales
associate at Express. The people I
worked with were way cool. Afterclose
when all of the stupid customers left,
we’d rap classics such as “Ice, Ice,
Baby” and “You Be lllin”’ into our
intercom and laugh with glee (yes,
glee) as we folded sweaters.

I am even slowly being able to
overcome my bias against people from
Canada, The Evil Empire, after work-
ing with one of their ilk. Cicilyn was
pretty cool about my asking her if she
knew Michael J. Fox, asking her if she

went to Degrassi Junior High, and
claiming that she was an illegal alien
getting paid a dollar an hour to work
there, a job she only got because of
NAFTA. Those jokes never got old!
As long as I occasionally punctuated
my sentences with “eh?” she under-
stood me and we got along great.

Sadly, The Exciting World of French
Fashion was not located within easy
walking distance of our home in Old
Scandanavian People Central. Conse-
quently, I spent a lot of time taking the
bus.

It probably won’t suprise anyone
that people who ride the bus tend to be,
for lack of a better word, freaks. I am
now convinced that I radiate an aura

;that says, “I’m from the Midwest! l’m
friendly! Talk to me!” because the
freaks loved me. I tried wearing sun-
glasses and looking really involved in
my book to make myself seem less
approachable, but it didn’t work.

One of my favorite freaks was a
man wearing a Confederate ﬂag belt
buckle and a glazed expression. He
came up to me and asked me if I was
from Seattle in a cute Southern drawl.
He then shared with me that he was as
far north as he'd ever been in his life.
When he told me he was from Ala-
bama, I realized who he reminded me
of: Forrest Gump.

Still, he was a little easier to take
than the one who stopped to tell me that
I looked, “So fresh and natural, so
innocent.” I had no idea how to react to

LETTERS

that other than perhaps,“Thanks, that’s
exactly the look my pimp is going for.”

Even away from Metro stops, life
with Steve was a constant adventure.
We love going to the grocery store
together (and what young couple
doesn’t?) and got to know Bill, one of
the checkers there.

One day, Bill had a stuffed beaver
wearing a red skull cap with a protrud-
ing shock of blond hair and a light blue
dress that matched his ﬂoral apron
perched on top of his cash register.
When we complimented him on it, he
grinned and said, “Hey, it’s yours!”
Bill went on to explain that the stock
guys had been playing a Bear Claw
machine and had won seven stuffed
beavers. They gave one to Bill and told
him to give it to the first nice girl who
came through his line. I pointed out
that he had given the beaver to Steve,
who then quickly handed the little guy
over to me.

There’s something special about
being able to walk out of the grocery
store saying, “Have a good day. And
hey, thanks forthe beaver!” How could
we not have named our new stuffed
animal Bill The Beaver?

Ah, memories.

Steve managed to get us invitations
through his job to the wrap party to the
wildly popular PBS show “Bill Nye,
The Science Guy.” It was held at the
Corinthian Yacht Club and was quite
an experience because Bill Nye, host
of an educational children’s show, was

drunk.

Bill Nye walked along the pier with
us, staggering, but still teaching us
about science. Between swigs of beer,
Bill said, “See that rope? Friction. See
that there? Friction. See that screw? No
friction there...son of a bitch.” It was
both disturbing and exciting, like if Big
Bird let loose on your newly washed
car.

Have you ever watched that de-
lightful family show “Home Improve-
ment”? (It’s a newspaper; no one will
know if you admit it.) Richard Karn,
who plays Tim Allen’s delightful side-
kick Al hosted the Richard Karn Ce-
lebrity Golf Classic in Seattle. Let me
give you a second to think about that:
Richard Karn. Classic. RICHARD
KARN. Anyway, we were actually able
to watch part of the golfing fun on TV.
Featured celebrities included Potsy
from “Happy Days” and Academy
Award nominee Samuel L. Jackson.
Steve and I believe that man will do
any gig he’s asked to do.

Work, freaks, drunk PBS celebri-
ties, golf...who am I kidding? We all
know I went to Seattle for one thing:
coffee (Steve was nice, too). Any time
of any day, I could get an espresso
anywhere. You can buy a
McCappuccino at McDonald’s for
god’s sake. I get all jitterly just think-
ing about it...maybe I should have got-
ten decaf every once in a while. All in
all, my summer was good to the last
drop.

Moderation right approach to alcohol use

To the editor:

A large thank you to the writer of the editorial
“Change comes from within” in your year-opening
edition. It rings very true and makes good sense.

Even though the menu of behavior-altering sub-
stances was perhaps more varied in my student days
here, student behavior was, by and large, about the
same: we always wanted more of those items which
inspired us, in whatever fashion, to feel more the way

we wanted to feel.

We didn’t like anyone else telling us what to do,
or not to do, or how much of whatever to consume.
This is perhaps natural but certainly quite human at
that wonderful age when you are ready to take on the
world, thinking, with all the fortitude hormones can
provide, that you can change it all, as though you
have something new to prove.

If some of my generation saw the film Easy Rider
and took it seriously, it is no less true that some of
those who have followed us seem to feel the same
way aboutAnimal House.

I applaud your advocating moderation in alcohol
use, which is far more realistic than encouraging
prohibition, and your saying that you must make this
change of your own volition is exactly right. It is also
entirely within the realm of possibility.

It’s not at all difficult to decide that a hangover is
no longer a status symbol. You already know it
doesn’t feel good.

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

Thanks for Freshman Orientation e/Tort

To the editor:

Film Society

Washington and Lee's Film Soci-
ety will present The Adventures of
Priscilla, Queen of the Desert at 8:05
p.m. tonight and Saturday in the Trou-
badour Theatre.

Also, this year's first meeting of
the Film Society will be held on Tues-
day, Sept. 19 at 5 p.m. in C-School
220.All members and interested stu-
dents are invited to attend.

Interview Workshop

There will be an Interviewing
Workshop on Wednesday, Sept. 20 at
4 p.m. in Room 109 ofthe University
Center. All students are invited to
attend. Those students planning to
participate in Practice Interviews Sept.
26 must attend this workshop.

Job Fair

There will be a Job Fair
registration meeting on Sept. 20 at
7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. All
seniors planning to participate in the
SLAC Job Fairs should plan to attend
this meeting.

Parents Weekend

Parents Weekend 1995 will take
place Oct. 27 and 28. Student leaders
whose organizations plan to sponsor
special Parents Weekend events
which will be open to all parents and
students should contact Michelle
Richardson, Student Activities Coor-
dinator, in the University Center no
later than Sept. 29.

Resumé Workshop

There will be a Resume Work-
shop on Monday, Sept. 18 at 4 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
All interested students are invited to
attend.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Senior Meeting

There will be Senior Meetings on
Tuesday, Sept. 19 at 4 p.m. and on
Thursday, Sept. 21 at 7 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium. All seniors who
have not previously attended a Se-
nior Meeting are invited to attend.

Study Abroad

The director of the program of
Advanced Studies in England will
meet with students interested in
studying in England on Monday,
Sept. 18 at 3:30 p.m. in University
Center 117. Contact Kirk Follo at
x8828 for more information.

W&L Women

There will be an ice cream
social, sponsored by Women’s
Forum, Women and Leadership
and Panhellenic, for all freshman
and upperclasswomen on Thurs-
day, Sept. 21 at 7 p.m. in the
Baker-Davis-Gilliam quad. The
rain site will be Evans Dining Hall.
Contact Karly Jennings at 463-
3313 or Sakina Paige at 463-2507
for more information.

Who's Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current undergradu-
ate senior class for selection to Who ’s
Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges may do so
by submitting the name and qualiﬁ-
cations of that student to David L.
Howison, Dean of Students, in Payne
Hall 9 by Oct. 6. Criteria for selec-
tion to Who ’s Who include scholar-
ship, participation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular activi-
ties, citizenship and service to Wash-
ington and Lee, and potential for
future achievement.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank publicly the entire W&L
community for providing such an enthusiastic and supportive welcome to the
Class of 1999 during the Freshman Orientation program. Of particular impor-
tance was the work of the Freshman Orientation Committee, and its extraordinary
president, Amy Gorham; the unﬂaggingly dedicated committee chairmen: Hollis
Leddy, Hillary Olson, Adam Branson, Doak Sergent, and Bunny Wong; the
Dormitory Counselors; and Michelle Richardson and Amy Blackburn, all of
whom gave unﬂaggingly of themselves. Planning and organizing orientation
activities and staffing virtually every orientation event—from Casino Night to
airport shuttles—made for a very smooth opening week.

Thanks also go to: our Buildings and Grounds staff; our Food Services staff
who furnished the culinary touches for several meetings and special occasions;

 

Jim Farrar, Rob Mish, Justin King, Kathekon, Southern Comfort, JubiLee,
General Admission and Gordon Spice for the Alumni Association BBQ; Ms.
Joan Neel and the APO Service Fraternity for excellent leadership of the
community service activity; Professor Kirk Follo, Glenn Miller and the Outing
Club for organizing the overnight hike; and Keith Benedict and the Executive
Committee for such a meaningful orientation to the Honor System.

Others too numerous to mention also contributed to the Freshman Orientation
program, and this general note must suffice as a thank you. I am pleased that the
Class of 1999—our Bicenquinquagenary Class—was the beneficiary of such a
community effort!

Dennis G. Manning
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life

 

Shoot people for The Ring-tum Phi!
If you are interested in photography, the Phi needs you.
Call Besty Green, Photo Editor, for more information at 463-1845 or 462-4059.

 

=
:9
r-.'
5"
031/

A Bistro

8 am — 3 pm - Monday
am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

   

 
     

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad

All you can eat $4.99
Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID
Friday - Seafood Nite -

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,

2 Vegs, Salad $8.95
Everyday Muffiiifi:&

 

(8 -am L “'1,
Daily Lunch Specialiprtth

19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

I3
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Valley 

mnomae stones "

  

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
Caps Fleecewear
T-Shirts Jackets

Team Uniforms Custom Printing

  
  

Screen :’Prt'.ntiu
648A Waddel St.

Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 464-9042

Allen L. Minnick
Sheila B. Minnick

%mNTrc EVENING
STARTER KIT

  

Ten E. Nelson

Florist’ to The Horrtestead

Lexington

 

463-9841

 

Hams T081’ Bl

RAMEN N

am. FLAVORS
‘Ir J‘

Nisin Top Rarnen

Oodles Of Noodles

3 02.

Reynolds

Aluminum Foil

25 sq. ft.

  2/$1

Ice

Tray........2ct.

Laundry

Basket . . 

‘ 
;uiesouﬂou9“5“”
S

Dismlncis Is It C191“

l

Harris Teeter

Window
Cleaner .

Bounty
Paper

Towels .

2/

0  OZ.

. 33 sq. ft. 

HARRIS TEETER COUPON

COUPON

Harris Teeter

Assorted Yogurt

IODIZI-ID S.«\I.T& PEPPER

McCormick

Salt 8: Pepper

2 ct.

oooo140zo

O0

VALUE .90
WITH THIS COUPON
Harris Teeter

5 Lb. Bag Sugar

Coupon Per Vist And 

Additional $25.00 Purchase.
Otter Good August 23
Through September 5, 1995.

PLU 5683
GROCERY

amsreeter

Th h S t b S, 1995 At Y L ’ ton Harris Teeter.
°**e'=G°°dA“W3 waasrlta aictttgsrrritaaa
- WE GLADLY ACCEPT VISA, MASTER CARD, DISCOVER 8r DEBIT

OPEN 24 H

Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Cross Country

Josephine Schaeffer was back in a familiar place in
the Lebanon Valley on Saturday: first.

The senior dominated the Lebanon Valley Invita-
tional for the third time in her four years at W&L as she
crossed the finish line in first place once again.

Schaeffer, who will be counted on to provide veteran
leadership for the Generals this season, clocked in with
a time of 18:41. Her performance facilitated W&L to a
seventh place finish out of the 29 schools present.

ATHLETES
OF THE WEEK

Anthony Mazzerelli
Men's Soccer

The Generals’ 1-0 victory this past Saturday at
Shenandoah was largely due to the performance of
goalie Anthony Mazzerelli.

After W&L freshman Sam Chase knocked in the
eventual winning goal in the 70th minute, Mazzerelli
blanked Shenandoah the rest of the way. The junior
posted 12 saves in securing his first shutout of 1995.

Mazzerelli combined with three other goalies in
whitewashing Marymount, 3-0, on Wednesday.

Pittsburgh is best bet in AFC

AFC, from page 8

grand total of once, in 1987. I’m very undecided on a team
that can’t decide between Jim Harbaugh and Craig Erickson
at quarterback. It is difficult not to like RB Marshall Faulk,
who is skyrocketing up the NFL’s rushing charts. The
defense, with big-play cornerback Ray Buchanan, is ad-
equate. If enough things go right, Indianapolis could back
into the playoffs. 8-8.

N.Y. Jets: OK, quiz time. Name the Jets’ top wide
receiver. lfyou answered Wayne Chrebet, you win a trip for
two to the Meadowlands. While you’re there, you can figure
out which end zone Jimmy Hoffa is buried in, which is what
the Jets will spend most of the year doing. Their quarter-
backs, Boomer (Esiason) and Bubby (Brister), sound more
like a circus act. Running back Adrian Murrell and tight
ends Johnny Mitchell and Kyle Brady are plusses, though.
New coach Rich Kotite has a mess on his hands with the
defense, which was rung up for 52 points in the opener,
against Miami. Theonly former AFL team not to win a
division title since the league dissolved in 1970, doesn’t
appear in any danger of winning one soon. 5-II.

AFC CENTRAL:

Coach Tom Coughlin, who is only slightly less authoritar-
ian than a Marine drill sergeant, will coax the maximum
effort out of his players. However, if the Jaguars were
outmanned against Houston and Cincinnati, how will they
match up against the rest of the league? 3-I3.

‘AF C WEST:

Oakland: Insiders claim this team is straightening itself
out. After three decades of ﬂinging 60-yard bombs
downﬁeld, the Raiders reportedly will be shortening the
passing game. Other than the inconsistencies presented by
their usual low-percentage passing game, offense isn’t a
problem, not with the explosive receiving trio of Tim
Brown, Rocket Ismail, and James Jett. QB Jeff Hostetler
needs to reduce his 16 interceptions from a year ago. On
defense, the Raiders are excellent at cornerback with veter-
ans Albert Lewis and Terry McDaniel. On paper, Oakland
has the fewest holes of any team in this division. But in
order to seriously challenge for the Super Bowl, the Raiders,
like Miami, will need to demonstrate an ability to win cold-
weather games on the road. I0-6, division winner.

Denver: Defense is always in demand in this town. Like
their baseball brethren Rockies, who frequently play high-

scoring games, the Broncos are similar

Pittsburgh: The Steelers were ago-
nizingly close to a Super Bowl last year.
Featuring an aggressive, blitzing de-
fense, and a run-it-up-your-gut ground
game, Pittsburgh held a late lead in the
AFC Championship Game. The
Steelers’ Steel Trap would have caused
San Francisco serious problems in the
Super Bowl, but the matchup never
materialized as the Chargers rallied to
win. Much of the same cast, QB Neil
O’Donnell, RB Bam Morris, and line-
backers Kevin Greene and Greg Lloyd,
is back in Pittsburgh. However, a sea-
son—ending injury to Rod Woodson is a
major setback. On another note, Pitts-
burgh attempted to turn itself into Dal-
las East with its numerous offseason
distractions. First, there was the Super
Bowl rap video the Steelers produced

Photo by Scott Hallen, Allsport
Dan Marino

on the football field. Their game plan is
to rack up as many points as possible to
offset the usual defensive collapse. The
offense is armed and dangerous with
ageless QB John Elway, RB Glyn
Milburn, and receivers Anthony Miller,
Mike Pritchard, and Shannon Sharpe.
The Denver defense looked like a ham-
burger on a Burger King grill last sea-
son when it ﬁnished dead last in the
NFL in pass defense. That’s not a good
omen against teams like archrival Oak-
land. If the Broncos can discover some
sort of defense along the way, they will
give opposing teams nightmares. Re-
gardless, Denver should be exciting to
watch. 9-7, wild card.

Kansas City: All right, let’s knock
off the Steve Bono bashing for now.
Sure, he has a funny name, and like
Steve Young in San Francisco, he will

before losing to San Diego. During the
summer, Greene auditioned for team
punter by kicking away a ball belonging to an autograph
seeker, and Lloyd drew a $12,000 fine for knocking out Brett
Favre in a preseason game. If the Steelers can overcome
these distractions, they will be rapping into late January.
I 2-4, division winner.

Cleveland: Andre Rison. Derrick Alexander. Michael
Jackson (no, not THAT one). Antonio Langham. Eric
Turner. The last time quarterback Vinny Testaverde had this
much talent surrounding him was his 1986 Miami Hurri-
canes squad. That year, Vinny threw a costly interception
late in the national championship game against Penn State
which cost the Hurricanes a victory. Enough said. Still, no
team in its right mind wants to play in Cleveland with the
Browns’ defense fired up, and the Dawg Pound fans woof-
ing, which is usually the case in Cleveland Stadium. 11-
5, wild card.

Houston: What happened to this team? It was only a
year and a half ago that the Oilers were a Joe Montana
comeback short of reaching the AFC Championship Game.
Now they have been dismantled, with QB Warren Moon,
RB Lorenzo White, WR Ernest Givins, and DE William
Fuller being shown the door in the past two years. Houston,
with coach Jeff Fisher, plan on rebuilding, but ifthe Oilers
are that committed, why is retread Chris Chandler taking the
snaps instead of QB-of-the-future Steve McNair? Only in a
division like this could Houston ﬁnish third. 5-II.

Cincinnati: Fans in Cincinnati are getting extremely
psyched over a 2-0 start. Not to rain on the parade, but the
Bengals beat Jacksonville last week. Still, this franchise
hasn’t had much reason for optimism in this decade. The
defense has been slightly better than horrible, and franchise
running back, number-one draft pick Ki-Jana Carter, suc-
cumbed to a season-ending injury during the preseason. As
for the positive, Cincinnati owns two potential superstar
receivers in Carl Pickens and Darnay Scott. QB Jeff Blake
will attempt to prove that he is not a one-year wonder.
Maybe next year when Carter rejoins them, the Bengals can
inch back to respectability. 5-II.

Jacksonville: The expansion Jaguars had a brilliant
opportunity to win their first game ever in either one ofthe
first two contests: versus Houston, and at Cincinnati. They
came close, but dropped both. That should set the tone for
the season. Jacksonville has assembled a roster capable of
giving other squads problems. Mark Brunell is a capable
young quarterback if Steve Beuerlein continues his haphaz-
ard play. Ernest Givins is a veteran wideout, and the
defensive backfield is impressive. Even Desmond Howard,
the draft bust of the decade, could turn into a key addition.

be known as The Guy Who Replaced

Joe Montana. He may be nowhere near

the level of Montana, or even Young, but Bono had always

been a solid ﬁll-in starter in San Francisco, and should
produce similar strong performances in Kansas City. The

Chiefs’ defense isn’t as intimidating as it used to be, but tell
opposing offenses that when DE Neil Smith and LB Derrick
Thomas are breathing across the line of scrimmage at them.
The key to KC’s season may be if it can get productive
seasons out of the running game from Greg Hill and ancient
Marcus Allen to compliment Bono’s short passing. 8-8.

San Diego: How did this team make it to the Super Bowl
last year? The Chargers lost star wideout Anthony Miller
prior to last season, and QB Stan Humphries played with a
dislocated elbow. Give coach Bobby Ross credit. Not only
has he transformed this formerly mediocre franchise into an
excellent one, he always causes the Chargers to play their
best when the chips are down. They were picked to finish
last in 1994, but they won’t be sneaking up on anyone this
year. Once again, San Diego will feature a smashmouth
ground attack powered by Natrone Means, and a tough
defense, led by LB Junior Seau and DE Leslie O’Neal. The
Chargers are solid enough in all areas to remain a viable
playoff contender. 8-8.

Seattle: As many high draft choices as Seattle stock-
piles, one would think that one of these years, the Seahawks
will finally make their move. Well, next year has never
come. QB Rick Mirer has done little to distinguish himself
since a spectacular rookie season in .1993. Number—one
draft choice Joey Galloway will need to mature quickly to
give Mirer a deep threat. RB Chris Warren doesn’t need any
help. Although infrequently mentioned outside the North-
west, Warren has turned into a big-time runner aftera 1,545-
yard campaign in 1994. Cortez Kennedy is rock-solid on
the defensive line, but he receives little help from his
teammates. Question marks dot the secondary, and the

special teams, with the loss of kicker John Kasay. Sounds '

like a couple more years of rebuilding in Seattle. 6-I0.

Is there anyone in the AFC that could win the Super
Bowl? Yes, Pittsburgh, Miami, New England, Oakland,
and Cleveland all have a chance. New England has a potent
offense, and a coach with two Super Bowl rings in Bill
Parcells. Miami and Oakland are the conference’s two most
talented teams, and Cleveland boasts a fearsome defense.

But the best bet may be Pittsburgh. The Steelers likely
have the AFC’s premier defense, and the offense, as long as
the running game is at full tilt, can get the job done. After
years of losing the Super Bowl with the offensive-minded
Broncos and Bills, defense is the route to go for the AFC in
order to end its Super Bowl drought.

  

Last Week:

Vouxvmu - W, 15-2, 15-3, 15-7, at Chfstopher Newport
Msoocsa - W, 1-0, at Shenandoah; W, 3-0, vs. Marymount
Wsownn - L, 6-1, vs. Kean; W, 3-1, vs. Jersey City at Kean Invitational
Tournament; W, 12-0, vs. Mary Baldwin
I-‘ooraau. - L, 35-22, at Emory and Henry
MCnoes COUNTRY - Finished second at Lebanon Valley Invitational
WCnoas COUNTRY - Finished seventh at Lebanon Valley Invitational
WATER Pom - W, 16-6, 16-6, 14-8, vs. Findlay;

W, 23-9, 16-5, vs. Virginia Tech in W&L Fall Classic

. PAGE 8

       

 

      
        

 

 

. . ..Witi: fc,3ts,fii§cethese,,it‘I~
j‘ i_s’ao=.wonder%_ ti1at.Mant§e*; 
 ‘_"w_as-irevered in New York ’_ :51
‘f.— andi.m'uch*.of the ‘country

 

    
     
 
 

   

  

  
 * ia hero,sorn?eorjiew}:o'=

 
   
 

I 

career *

  to ftftelplate :. .-

    

1;st;ed'ﬁa¢ii'‘‘‘§i§uer¢red'. :-
" “ 1 nd_A§ivedtris_. 1;

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Expectations are high this sea-
son for Washington and Lee’s
women’s soccer team, following
their surprise 10-5 record last
season.

The Generals did lose six se-
niors to graduation, but last year’s
fab freshmen class returns this
year to pick up the slack.

The first test for the women’s
soccer team came in the Kean
Invitational Tournament in Kean,
NJ, this past Saturday.

The host Kean team from
Union, NJ, defeated the Generals
in their ﬁrst match, 6-1, by wear-
ing W&L down with their pow-
erful offense.

W&Lfreshman forward Karin
Treese tied the game at 1-1 early
in the first half off a penalty kick
conversion, but the rest of the
game was all Kean.

The Generals rebounded in
their next contest, defeating Jer-

S

@112 iting-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Women’s soccer grabs
split in New Jersey

sey City, 3-1, on Sunday.
Junior Michelle Bauman led
the Generals to an early 2-0 lead
by scoring two goals in the ﬁrst
half off assists from Treese and
fellow freshman Caroline Keen.

Treese tacked on her second
goal of the tournament during
the second half to pad W&L’s
lead before Jersey City netted a
garbage-time goal late in the sec-
ond half.

Sophomore goalie Delia
Coyle and her older colleague,
junior Beth Mozena, combined
to hold Jersey City to just one
goal, while tallying six saves.

On Thursday, the 1-1 Gener-
als looked for anotherwin against
the Fighting Squirrels of Mary
Baldwin, who they trounced last
year, 7-0.

The storyline was repeated
this year, as the Generals bombed
the Squirrels, 12-0.

Keen turned in an incredible
performance. The freshman
smashed the W&L single-game
point mark with her nine points.

She scored four goals and had
one assist. Treese added to the
freshman domination as she
notched three goals.

Coyle saved the lone shot at-
tempted by the Squirrels.

Tomorrow, the Generals
travel to face Guilford, the team
they beat in last year’s ODAC
tournament, by a score of 6-0.
That game also looks like a win
for W&L, as the Generals have
never lost to Guilford, winning
eight times in the two schools’
nine meetings.

The apparent early signs of
another powerful freshman class
this season continue to bode well
for Washington and Lee in the
near future.

While it may be too early to
say, coach Jan Hathom certainly
appears to have more valuable
additions to her already fonni-
dable nuclei of young talent,
which includes Coyle and scor-
ing sensation Erica Reineke.

The years to come look bright,
indeed.

This Week:

Vouxrmu. - Sat. in W&L Invitational, 9:00 AM
Tues. vs. Randolph-Macon, 6:30 PM
Thurs. at Roanoke, 6:30 PM

MSoocx|t-

Sat. at Catholic, 11:00 AM

Tues. vs. Emory & Henry, 4:00 PM

Wsoocnn -

Sat. at Guilford, 12:00 noon; Wed. at Hollins, 4:00 PM

M, WCnoss Couxrmr - Sat. in W&L Invitational, 10:00 AM
WATILR Pow - Sat. at Richmond EWPA Tourney

SEPTEMBER 15, 1995

File Photo

Kicking off the season

The Generals’ women’s soccer team split a pair of games in Kean, New Jersey,
last weekend before making the long trek back home to face Mary Baldwin.

Water Polo sweeps Fall Classic

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee wa-
ter polo squad wasted no time in
jumping out of the gate to start
the 1995 season, as the Generals
swept all ﬁve games they played
this past weekend in the W&L
Fall Classic at Twombly Pool.

The Generals ripped Findlay,
16-6, 16-6, and 14-8, as well as
dumping VirginiaTech by counts
of 23-9 and 16-5. With its quick
start, W&L bursts out to a 5-0
record in the young ‘season.

Head coach Page Remillard
was not surprised by the Gener-
als’ blowout victories during the
Fall Classic.

“The opponents didn’t expe-

rience the same type of preseason
that we had,” he commented.
Because of the lower level of

competition, Remillard wanted .

his first team and his goalies, as
well as his freshmen, to receive
plenty of playing time through-
out the tournament.

“The question was, how well
would we come together,” men-
tioned Remillard.

Much to the dismay of Findlay
and Virginia Tech, W&L had no
problems whatsoever. Junior All-
American Pete Sorensen was all
over the pool on offense last
weekend, tallying up a grand to-
tal of 16 goals and 9 assists. His
team-leading offensive statistics
figured out to a superb ﬁfty-per-
cent shooting percentage.

Sorensen didn’t skip a beat on

defense, either. His fifteen steals
in the tournament gave him top
honors on the team defensively.

Fellow junior Nathan Hottle
also made life miserable for the
opposition on defense by finish-
ing with fourteen thefts. Hottle
proved to be the catalyst on
W&L’s fast break opportunities,
as well.

Junior James Silberstein
added to his reputation of being
the Generals’ deep threat by
notching the team’s first two-
point goal of the 1995 season
during the Classic. Silberstein
ended up second to Sorensen in
scoring with a 23-point total.

W&L’s young goalie tandem
turned in an impressive perfor-
mance. Deep-end goalie sopho-
more J aoob Garrett and shallow-

File Photo

W&L’s water polo squad opened its season in extremely impressive fashion.
The Generals captured all five games they played in the W&L Fall Classic,
knocking off Findlay (Ohio) and Virginia Tech to run their record to 5-0.

end stopper freshman Aaron
Howell combined to ward off
60.5 percent of the opposing shots
in the tournament.

“When your goalies block
sixty-percent, you’re real happy,”
Remillard commented.

Remillard was alsoextremely
impressed with W&L’s block-
ing from the ﬁeld, saying that it
wasthebestﬁeld-blockingweek-
end ever for the Generals.

“We made some mistakes on
defense, but it will be hard to
evaluate them until we play a
tougher level of competition,” he
said.

That increased level of com-
petition oould come as soon as
this weekend when the Generals
travel to Richmond to participate
in an EWPA Tournament hosted
by the University of Richmond.

One of the teams W&L will
face there, Navy, is currently
ranked tenth in the nation. Rich-
mond also received votes in the
national poll.

‘‘I don’t expect us to go
undefeated (in the tournament),
but 1 do expect us to win at least
one game,” Remillard said.

The Generals did not receive
any votes in the rankings, but
that could change during the
course of the regular season, since
most Eastern Water Polo Asso-
ciation teams are lumped together
in ability.

“Parity is the deﬁnition of this
coming season,” Remillard
stated.

Because of the parity, it will
become even more critical for
the Generalstodefendtheirhome
turf, since road contests will
present a difficult challenge
against teams close to their abil-
ity level.

“Seven teams are all close to-
gether, which means they’ll be
beating each other,” mentioned
Remillard.

The Generals get their next
shot at a home game when they
host the W&L EWPA Touma—
ment on September 30.

Football:

For the second year in a row,
W&L dropped its opener to the
Wasps of Emory & Henry, this
time falling on the road, 35-22.

The Generals fell into a huge
hole at halftime, trailing 28-2.
Those two points came on the
first-ever defensive two-point
conversion for W&L.

The Generals scored three
touchdowns in the second half,
but three turnovers in the half
dashed W&L’s comeback hopes.

Safety Stuart Hogue turned
in a terriﬁc day on defense with
19 tackles. Hull added ten tack-
les and two sacks.

 

thony Mazzerelli fended off
twelve Shenandoah shots.

The goose-eggs continued
Wednesday at Liberty Hall
Fields, as the Generals dusted
off Marymount, 3-0. FourW&L
goalies teamed up to stop eight
shots in the shutout.

Junior Bill Sigler played a
large role by scoring one goal
and assisting on another for the
Generals (2-0).

Women’s Cross Country:

Senior Josephine Schaeffer
continued to own the course at
the Lebanon Valley Invitational,
as she triumphed for the third

Volleyball:

The volleyball team domi-
nated Christopher Newport on
Saturday, 15-2, 15-3, 15-7.

Sophomore Hilary Martin led
the way with 13 kills, and sopho-
more Holly Thomsen pitched in
with 7 kills, helping W&L to a
.493 hitting percentage.

Middle blocker Virginia
Yoerg controlled the defensive
play with her ﬁve blocks.

Men’s Soccer:

The Generals squeaked by
Shenandoah, 1-0, on Saturday,
as freshman Sam Chase beat the
opposing goalie late in the game

for the only score. Junior An-

\

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
W&L started 2-0 after a 3-0 win over Marymount.

year in a row.
Schaeffer ﬁnished her 22nd
career win in a time of 18:41.
Sophomore Carson Flowers
came in second behind Schaeffer
with a time of 21:50. W&L
finished seventh in team play.

Men’s Cross Country:
The 1995 season started on a
bright note for the Generals, as
they captured second place in
the 26-team competition.
Senior Brad Paye took team
honors by finishing third at
Lebanon Valley in 26:35. '
Sophomore Jason Callen
checked in with a log of 27:03,
good enough for seventh place.

AFC looks to end eleven years of NFC domination

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Part 2 of a two- part series.

If the NFL title was decided on the basis of regular season records,
American Football Conference teams would fare excellently.

However, since there is that small matter of a Super Bowl to be
decided each season, an AFC team has not won a championship since

the Raiders in the 1983 season.

There are various theories on why the NFC perenially dominates
the ultimate contest of the season. For one, the NFC emphasizes
defense and ball—control attacks more. Also, many NFC teams play
in tough stadiums under often inclement conditions.

Both reasons hold some validity, but the most probable reason is
that parity is more common in the AFC. The AFC annually boasts a
cast of solid, capable teams, but they are not quite talented enough to
overtake the likes of Dallas and San Francisco from the NFC.

Each year, the AFC holds its own with the NFC in interconference
play, but until it develops a team that rises above the pack, the Super

Bowl will be another AFC failure.

Here is a glance at the AFC, along with each team’s predicted

record.

AFC EAST:

New England: The Patriots have been on an upward swing for

three years now, and possess some of the best young talent in the
game in quarterback Drew Bledsoe and tight end Ben Coates. The
Pats would be poised to advance to the next level, but the defense is
shaky at best. Ironically, defense was always the strong point of
coach Bill Parcells’ Giants teams. New England also has a difﬁculty
winning big games, as evidenced by last week’s moribund perfor-
mance against Miami. The Patriots should eventually reach the

    

Photo by Jeff Fishbein, The Sporting News
The Dawg Pound intimidates the opposition.

Super Bowl, but it may take a year or two. As for this year, they stand '

a good shot at winning their division. I I -5, division winner.

Miami: The Dolphins are never short on talent. QB Dan Marine
is still rolling along at a tremendous clip, and fullback Keith Byars,
tight end Eric Green, and loudmouth linebacker Bryan Cox are all
proven veterans. Don Shula, as usual, is one of the top coaches in the
NFL. There is nothing not to like about this team on paper. On the
ﬁeld, things do not always go the same. Miami customarily starts off
on ﬁre, lapses into a November swoon when forced to play road
games in cold weather, and drops a playoff contest it should have
won, such as last season when a 21-6 lead in San Diego went up in
smoke. Expect much of the same this year. I0-6, wild card.

Buffalo: I know, I know, everybody is tired of these guys.
Nobody outside of the Buffalo area wants to see a Drive for Five.
Still, these guys aren’t that bad yet. Despite not making the playoffs
last season, the Bills still return QB Jim Kelly, RB Thunnan Thomas,
WR Andre Reed, DE Bruce Smith, and LB Cornelius Bennett.
Basically, it is the same nucleus that was present during the Super
Bowl years. It will be interesting to see if Buffalo can pull itself
together and prove last year was an aberration, or else maybe the Bills
are getting old. 9-7.

Indianapolis: The Colts have been a trendy pick to reach the ,

playoffs this year. But wait a second...these are the Colts, aren’t they?
They still have the Curse of Baltimore on their backs. Since 1984,
when they departed Baltimore, the Colts have entered the playoffs a

to See AFC, page 7

 

