 
  
  
 

 

 "i ?.&‘rB= 1%.: l_!léF:4.F'.Y
l'.»'.*.'.v'~»mU'I='b:»=«‘ 5 an t;.'4£v.'ﬁI6:‘I‘{

 iv,-l gig

is 91 

~.- -qu_w.-

 

OCK CONVENTION ISSUE

 
 

N.

* Meet the Big Four candidates

 

 

   

 

  Weekendweather
  FRIDAYS Mostly ctoudy,‘ I
O" _ chance of snow, highs
1: near 40, lowsinthe 20s :
, SAIURDA,Y: Mostlyetoudy, 
  itemps,3O»35 ; s V
{SUNDAK Partiy sunny, min:
20.3, lows in the teens is  _ 

 

Get the scoop on

‘Q ‘I
‘Q ‘Q
‘(ii
iii‘!

 

with our supplement

éwimmcrs emerge from

pool as winners

#1‘  

/-'7'
«f-3

VOLUME 96, NO. 15

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

You want it, we got it

Photo by Celeste Rasmussen

Among the preparations for Mock Con this Week was the memorabilia sale which took place in the
University Center. On sale was everything from cuzzis to keychains, and of course t-shirts are a given.

The Voting Regulations Board
would like to announce that Big
Four Elections will be held Mon-
day, March 4th from 8 a.m. to 4
p.m. Run-off elections, if neces-
sary, will be held on Thursday
during the same hours. Remem-
ber to vote in front of the Co-op,
Leyburn Library, and Law School.

President

Name: Sandy Hooper

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: European History and French

Hometown: Brownsville, Tennessee

What experience do you have? Sopho-
more E.C. representative

Why do you want to be elected? I
think it’s time an undergrad serve as President.
Ifelected, I’d like to see the (student autonomy)
issue resurface and would do what I could to let
the Hill know students are serious about keep-
ing their freedoms.

Favorite aspect of W&L? The friendly
rapport. There’s little friction or protest among
us which lends a great hand to the happiness
that our four years give us.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? I don’t know. That’s a stupid question.

Name: Bill Rust

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Public Policy and History

Hometown: Baltimore, MD .

What experience do you have? Board
member of Habitat, dorm counselor, editor of
Political Review, President of Leyburn Society

Why do you want to be elected?
Honor and the execution of the Honor System
are things I feel very deeply about. I sometimes
worry, however, that our atttitudes toward it are
becoming too ambivalent. We too often see
honor for what it is not, rather than for what it
is, that our system has become too much of a
rule-oriented one. The E.C. is free to consider
other matters and I believe it should do so. I'm
speaking of immoral matters not illegal ones.

Favorite aspect of W&L? Honor Sys-
tem and sense of community

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? no response

Vice-President

Name: Alex Christensen

Graduation Date: 1998

Major: Undecided

Hometown: San Marcos, CA

What experience do you have? lam
a member of Contact and served in the student
government in high school.

Why do you want to be elected? I
think student government works best when
different students rotate in and out so the focus
stays on the process and does nof become
focused on individuals.

Favorite aspect of W&L? I like every-
thing about W&L.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? Phoebe. She’s the only one whose name
I can remember.

Name: Amy Gorham

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Business Administration and Ac-
counting

Hometown: San Antonio, TX

What experience do you have? Two
years on the E.C. One year was as Secretary.

Why do you want to be elected? lwant
to maintain the integrity of the Honor System,
preserve the student self-governance on our
campus, and provide forthe equitable disburse-
ment of students funds so that our student-run
organizations can flourish.

Favorite aspect of W&L? The small
studentbody which lends itselfto such afriendly
campus as well as th perseverance of traditions
like the Honor System which would fall apart at
larger schools.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? Chandler. I like his sense of humor and
I, too, could probably sit in front ofthe TV all
day and watch really mindless television shows.

Secretary

Name: Marcus Rayner

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Politics

Hometown: Skillman, NJ

What experience do you have? Two
years as E.C. representative for the Class of
1997.

Why do you want to be elected? W&L

derives its strength from its traditions, and only
through a commitment to these traditions can
we hope to maintain them forthe future classes.
My commitment to the Honor System and
student autonomy has given me a desire to do
my part to uphold these W&L institutions.

Favorite aspect of W&L? Sense of
community. Individuals are respected, trusted,
and allowed to excel at this university.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? Rachel. Did you actually get any other
answers?

SCC Chair

Name: Robert Covington

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Chemistry

Hometown: Atlanta, GA

Whatexperience do you have? Of-
ficer on the Student Activities Board. Served
on the FOC, SDC, FCA, and the sophomore
housing committee.

Why do you want to be elected? Ifeel
strongly about the legacy of integrity and char-
acter at W&L. Through my involvement, I feel
I am in touch with the student body.

Favorite aspect of W&L? no response

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? no response

Name: Sasha Hartman

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Management

Hometown: Vessy, Switzerland

What experience do you have? Class
officer for three years. Member of SCC for
three years. Vice-Chair of SCC.

Why do you want to be elected? I
would like to be part of the committee that
makes decisions based on students’ perspective
and supports democracy with utmost sincerity.

Favorite aspect ofW&L? There are too
many things that I love about W&L. Unlike
most schools, W&L doesn’t pay its student tour
guides. They give up there free time in order to
tell prospective students how much they love
this place. I think everyone will agree that this
says a lot about our university.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? No question about it —— Marcel. That’s
one cool monkey.

Compiled by Dan Odenwald

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

BY MICHAEL Hawusrr
Phi Associate Editor

Things are hectic for Mock Convention
people, especially since political commentator
Pat Buchanan pulled off a surprising win in
New Hampshire and Steve Forbes won in Ari-
zona. Now state delegations are doing last-
minute research around the clock to make sure
Washington and Lee picks the right nominee
for the Republican party.

Many students who are involved are look-
ing forward to the Mock Convention that starts
tomorrow and ends Saturday.

“We’re really excited,” said Oklahoma state
co-chairman Susan McMurry. “We’re work-
ing really hard this week because the races are
a lot closer than we had expected.”

Poltical director for Indiana Hank Cosby
agrees.

“Buchanan has thrown a wild card in the
race,” he said. “It’s hard to estimate his support
(in lndiana).”

Cosby said he has been impressed with the
whole idea of a Mock Convention.

‘‘I think it’s one of the highlights of the
Washington and Lee experience,” he said. “The
quality of the speakers and the level of sophis-
tication employed in the research has been a
real learning experience.”

Steve Frame, the state chairman for Indiana,
said he’ll be glad when the convention gets
people over this infatuation with Pat Buchanan.

U112 iliing-tum lﬁhi

MARCH 1, 1996

repares for 1996 Mock Con

He said his delegation has been working all
week to get the correct prediction and deter-
mine how many votes will go to each candidate
in their state. Still, he can’t wait until Mock
Convention.

“I’m looking forward to the whole process,
of getting to know how the convention is run,”
Frame said.

Jennifer Home has a slightly different rea-
son to look forward to the Mock Convention.
She will be celebrating her 21st birthday tomor-
row while performing her duties as state chair-
man of the Massachusetts delegation.

“I hope it’s going to be fun,” she said. “I
hope that everyone, even if they’re not politi-
cal, can enjoy it and get excited about it.”

Home said the Mock Convention has been a
lot of work, but it has been a real learning
experience. She had to do plenty of research on
her state because she’s not from there. But she
believes all the work will pay off in the end.

‘‘I think we’ll appreciate it more because of
all the work we’ve put into it.”

Christina Petrides, a delegate for Georgia
and who has participated in her state Republi-
can Convention in her senior year in high school,
is looking forward to being a part of a pseudo-
national convention. She also doesn’t mind
seeing her congressman, Speaker of the House
Newt Gingrich, again.

Nadiyah Howard, a delegate for Nevada,
agrees.

“I think it will be a great opportunity to
become involved in a positive W&L tradition.”

IFC passes rule regarding
mandatory sober drivers

BY MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

This weekend Washington and Lee students
can go to a fraternity party knowing that there
will be at least two sober drivers present, ac-
cording to a new Interfraternity Council law
passed unanimously on Tuesday, Feb. 13.

IFC president Anthony Mazzarelli said that
now fraternities are required to submit the names
of two people who will act as sober drivers

when they register for weekend parties.

Mazzarelli said that this is separate from
new efforts to revive Live Drive. Before the
new law, fraternities simply had to check off on
a form whether they will have sober drivers or
not, and it was not enforced, he said. Things
will be different with this new law; if a frater-
nity fails to submit two names, the IFC will ﬁne
it $100.

“The ultimate goal is that people will have
several options for sober driving,” said
Mazzarelli. “[The new rule] is a good starting

point.”

 

Photo by Mark McDannald

The Oregon Delegation diligently works on their ﬂoat for the Mock Con
Parade. The parade will be Friday at 10:30 a.m.

    

PAGE 2

@112 ‘filing-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Mock Con leads the pack

Cokie Roberts, Jeff Greenfield, and Hal Bruno are
three of the most successful political analysts ABC News
has on staff. Between the three, they have been reporting on
government for countless years. They are what you would
call experts. Viewers trust them implicitly and ABC pays
them quite well because they are very—very—good at what
they do.

Given this, it seems altogether odd that on Tuesday
night’s broadcast of Nightline, Ted Koppel told Roberts,
Greenfield, and Bruno that no matter how hard they tried,
they simply couldn’t do their jobs. You see, before too long
ago Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole was the “sure
thing” candidate for the Republican nomination. Pundits,
soothsayers, and wise men all over the land were predicting
a Clinton-Dole race this fall. Roberts, Greenfield, and
Bruno agreed. Dole was the shoe-in.

Then something happened. More specifically, Ameri-
can politics happened. The American electorate is a curious
beast. Just when you think you can figure them out, they
surprise the hell out of you. Case in point: Patrick
Buchanan.

Once an off-the-wall television commentator who
seemed more interested in bashing (fill in minority group
here), Buchanan has caught on with the proverbial disaf-
fected voter. His brash style of xenophobic populism has
won him votes. More importantly, it has won him delegates
to the San Diego convention.

Our three experts did not 1016866 "this scenario. Neither
did anyone else for that matter.

What does this have to with Washington and Lee? Try
visiting the Mock Con office.

Our very own experts are also breathlessly watching
Buchanan’s meteoric rise. After all, they had seemed
convinced of a Dole victory as well. Nevertheless, the
Mock Con people are busily scrambling to factor in the
Buchanan phenomenon to their original projections.

Indeed, Mock Con officials are no longer calling this a
convention of confirmation, but a convention of actual
prediction. Bob Ross, Dave Stewart, and Courtney Tucker
are in the same boat as the rest of the nation. No one can
predict who is going to win this race. Will it be Dole?
Buchanan? Forbes? Alexander?

Media machines are engaged in a similar race as the
Mock Con machine is on the third ﬂoor of the University
Center. The prize? Successfully determining who will be
the GOP alternative to Clinton in November.

We encourage ABC, Roberts, Greenfield, and Bruno to
look to us for guidance. Mock Con is based on extensive
research and painstaking observation. They are rightfully
confident in their ability to choose correctly. Perhaps the
media should peek over our shoulders. Chances are we
could beat them at their own game.

—D.O.

Quote of the Week

“Well, I’m white, but I’m not that white.”

-74 C 0-op worker on why she would
not vote for Pat Buchanan.

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm lﬂlrt

OPINION

The Ringtum Phi, March 1, 1996

Rights fall prey to

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

One of the hottest issues on today’s
political landscape concerns the role
of religion in American politics. While
many people possess a fear of religion ’s
inﬂuence on government, there can be
little denial that religious persecution
pervades today’s culture, endorsed by
forces in the media, culture, and gov-
emment.

In their January 1996 issue, GQ
magazine published an article by re-
porter Scott Raab on the Promise Keep
ers Christian men’s movement, which
aims to encourage men to renew their
dedication to God and family through
large group rallies and personal net-
works. Raab’s article called Promise
Keepers founder Bill McCartney “a
raving lunatic,” compared a Sunday
school class to a group of Islamic ter-
rorists, labeled the rallies “the time-
tested snake oil of tent revivalism,”
and went so far as to describe the wives
of attenders as “ugly and uglier.”

On December 19th, the news pro-
gram All Things Considered on tax-
payer-funded National Public Radio
featured commentator Andrei
Codrescu, who described Christian
belief in the return of Christ as “crap”
and stated: “The evaporation of 4 mil-
lion people who believe in this crap
would leave the world an instantly
better place.”

In 1995, a federal judge in Denver
ordered the graduating seniors of Salt
Lake City, Utah’s West High not to
sing the song “Friends” at their June
graduation ceremony because it in-
cludes the words “God” and “Lord.”
When the students san g anyway, school
staff reviewed videotapes of the event
to punish non—graduating choir mem-
bers who sang the song.

At Texas’s Sam Houston Elemen-
tary school, third-grader Audrey
Schwab wanted to decorate the paper
sneaker award she won for jogging
five miles. School ofﬁcials told her

   

GENERATION Lax

  
 

  

HE INN? OUT
THAT COOLIO
l$N‘T comma-

rak ANOWEK
J’ TMEE UJEEKS.

   

' \\ﬁ
1.’ H \ Q‘ \
‘ a

 

r ‘*?3’if£?;7;?Iz.~:sn

that while her classmates could put rap
lyrics and other messages on their
sneakers, the message she wanted to
use in decoration was inappropriate.
Her message? ‘-‘Jesus loves us.”

These examples illustrate just some
of the many ways in which some ele-
ments of our society exhibit a fear of
religion that borders on paranoia. It
seems today that

 

Justice Blackmun went so far as to suggest
that religious people are, because of their
faith, potentially dangerous; Justice
Kennedy referred to religion’s “coercive”
elfectson young people; andlustice Souter
argued that religious belief was essentially

irrational.
What most people don’t know is that
for 150 years, the Supreme Court had no
such problems

...1"M Ills
Bl6(.£ST FR”!

any form of withreligiousex-
speech ispermis— _____ C ‘ ______ pression.Onlyin
sible, unless it 1947’sEversonv.
happens to be re- Board of Educa-
ligious, that all It seems today that tion did the Su-
slurs on groupsrn . preme Court be-
generalaretaboo, any form ofspeech ls gin to take the
unlesstheytarget permissible unless it radiaalviewofthe
politically incor- ’ _ F i r s t
rec: religious happens to be relr- Amendment’ses-
conservatives, - tablishment
and that no secu- glous! that all slurs clauseassuperior
lar liberal views on. groups in general to the same
are extreme, arrrendment’sfree
while those on are taboo, unless  exercise clause,
the conservative - - - arrdnotuntil1962,
side of the spec- target polltlcally tn‘ inEngelv.Vitale,
trum are derided correct religious con- did the Court ban

as “wing-nuts.”
U n f o r t u -
nately, when re-
ligious people
across America
look to the judi-
cial system to
secure their
rights, they ﬁnd
an even more
hostile environ-
ment. According

servatives, and that
no secular liberal
views are extreme,
while those on the
conservative side of
the spectrum are de-
rided as “wing-nuts. ”

non-sectarian
school prayer.
Ironically, in the
1962case,theSu-
preme Court
failed to cite a
single legal pre-
cedent for its ac-
tions.

By contrast,
our Founding Fa-
thers had no such

to the Supreme
Court, it is now
unconstitutional
for schools to merely post a copy of the
Ten Commandments on the wall (Stone
v. Graham), on the grounds that it
might cause children to read them,
meditate upon them, and obey them. It
is also unconstitutional to have a mo-
mentofsilencebeforebeginningtheschool
day (Wallace v. Jaffree), because such an
action was deemed not to have a secular
purpose.

In the 1992 Lee v. Weisman decision,

problem with the
relationship be-
tween religion
and government. Our country’s founding
document states: “We hold these truths to
be self-evident, that all men are created
equal, that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain unalienable Rights,
that among these are Life, Liberty and
the pursuit of Happiness.”

In 1789, George Washington ex-
pressed the universal feeling of our
Founders that “True religion affords to
government its surest support.” The

Supreme Court has managed to dis-
card this wisdom in the past 30 years.

Yet the rash of abuses heaped upon
religious people today has caused many
to rethink this hostile position. Rep.
Henry Hyde (R-IL) and Rep. Ernest
Istook, Jr. (R-OK) are leading the
charge in Congress to pass a Religious
Freedom Amendment that aims to se-
cure for Americans the right to exer-
cise the same freedom to practice their
religion that drove the original English
settlers to come to America.

The amendment simply states, “In
order to secure the right of the people

to acknowledge and serve their God .

according to the dictates of conscience,
neither the United States nor any state
shall deny benefits to or otherwise
discriminate against any persons be-
cause of their religious belief, exercise
or expression.”

We are being told that freedom of
religion takes a back seat and must be
restricted whenever anybody com-
plains that it makes them uncomfort-
able,” Rep. Istook explains.

Rep. Hyde adds, “The Supreme
Court has treated religion as some-
thing that might be OK fer consenting
adults behind closed doors, but is prob-
ably bad for kids.”

Quite frankly, the Supreme Court
has traveled too far down a path of
intolerance to wait for it to return to its
judicial and constitutional moorings.

And because the Court can simply .

invalidate any law seeking to return
religious freedom to its rightful stat-
ure, the amendment’s advocates be-
lieve that citizens must take more seri-
ous action to correct the Court consti-
tutionally.

No child deserves to be told that
legitimate religious expression is “in—
appropriate,” and America must not
tolerate a double standard where law-
abiding religious citizens are only the
victims, not the beneﬁciaries, of free
speech. Liberty minded Americans
everywhere should support these ef-
forts to recapture America’s religious
heritage and to expand freedom na-
tionwide.

P

54

oversensitivity

)'

:

Features Editor
Photography Editor
Editorial Cartoonists

Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager.....
Advertising Manager
Advertisement Composition Ar1ist.....

Phi is otherwise independent.

current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Betsy Green
Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace

Robert Nelson
Doug Gertner
Jennifer Grant
Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. betters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes

The Avitable

After secretly eavesdropping on a meeting of all
the state chairs of Mock Convention ’96, I have
decided to expose my discovery to the world. These
state chairs are not working night and day to make
the correct prediction of the presidential nominee-
they’re letting the computers do it for them! Unbe-
knownst to the rest of the Washington and Lee
community (but knownst to me and a few other),
there exists a virtual intelligence computer deep
within the bowels of Tucker Hall. This computer,
among many other wonderful actions (such as mak-
ing a damn good cup of cappuccino), can accurately
predict the future!

This esteemed Neo Automatic KE Digital 4000
has revealed to its operators the following newswor-
thy items: the resignation of President Wilson and
his succession by President Elrod, the appearance of
George Clinton for last year’s Fancy Dress (and the
subsequent appearances by 40 FBI and DEA agents),
the grades of all 1900+ W&L students Fall, Winter
and Spring terms, the breakup of the cocaine ring, the
rejoining of “Magic” Earvin Johnson to whatever
sports team for which he plays and the fact that a
stupid talking pig would be in line for more Oscars
than/lpollo I 3! The only fact that the NAKED 4000
did not accurately predict was the divorce of Michael
Jackson and Lisa Marie Presley, but none of us saw

managed to get into the NAKED system and have
found out some more recent tidbits of data that will
be interesting. I now know the number of FBI and
DEA agents that will attend this year’s FD (72, but
one will sprain his ankle and have to leave early),
which ﬂoat will win the “Best in Show” award for the

(C

These state chairs are not
working night and day to
make the correct prediction
of the presidential nominee-
they’re letting the comput-
ers do it for them!

Mock Convention parade (Nevada), and who will
win the 1996 presidential election (Candace Gingrich?)
Last week, these state chairs were all contacted in the
middle of the night by persons posing as Dionne
Warwick and LaToya Jackson, who presumably came
directly from consulting the NAKED 4000, and these
persons informed each chair of the winner of his or her

whining about all of the “hard work” that he or she has
had to do for his or her state, don’t you be believin’
that! Oh, and for those six people who are going to
attempt to commit honorviolations this year: don’t do
it—you’re gonna get caught!

Well, okay, for those of you who are clamoring
fora few ﬁnal predictions by the NAKED 4000, here
you go: Japan will purchase this ﬁne university in
1997, and it will be renamed Washington and Tanaka
University, Head of University Computing Bob
Williams will die in a freakish modem accident, but
thanks to his brilliance, his brain will live on forever
in Liberty and, ﬁnally, after being trapped at school
during the Blizzard of 1998 for two days straight, 98
percent of the students and 75 percent of the faculty
will die after succumbing to their withdrawal symp-
toms and consuming a total of 17 gallons of rubbing
alcohol left in the janitors’ closets.

This has been a ﬂashing expose by The Avitable
of the NAKED truth, and now for a ﬁnal shameless
plug: tune in to WLUR 91.5 FM every Wednesday

from midnight to two a.m. for some of the best music .

this side of the sun, courtesy of myself and Zach
Hanks! I don’t know why I’m trying this, because I
already know that we get kicked off the air in two
days after we burn Reid Hall down by accident after
President Elrod suddenly goes Simpson and drives

down Washington Street in a white Bronco while the V

entireAr1 Department is ﬁred fora huge, multimillion-
dollar acid ring, and...

Executive Editors Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald M I C 0 0 0 V
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett c 0 e  0 e t 0 S
News Editor... ........ .. Christine Gamavish 0 11 r ]' n r  ]' n

Editorial Page Editor. Hillary Coombs

SP0?“ E‘“‘°‘ _ §°°" B°°k“’“1‘°' that one coming! state. In conclusion, I guesswhat I’m trying to say here
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman MY VIEW By using my more-than-adept hacking skills, I is that if you hear one of these chairs bitching and

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1, 1996

ADVERTISEMENTS A FAG“

 
 
  

  

    

 
 
 
      
   
     
 

 
   
 

‘ - ‘RYSl.l-'R0l’LYM0‘l'H-l)OD(lE-
\
   it  éjrc/tange E
- E and L U B E E
"   E COLLEGE SQUARE f
° (Next to Kro er)
1 '5 g I
(it I! 5 QUICK
 t  t “i 1 9.9 * T
4 ’  <2 $ 5 LUBE /_
,3 INCLUDES:
5 °Auto Transmission
T Check
if E °Up to 5 Quarts 10W/30
5.1 Valvoline Oil
? °Filter Chassis Lube
E’ *most cars
"‘ 1?’! rt: '1‘ The}! a old 3
Ten E. Nelson 0 t 0 am” e .
bexington, Virginia 24450 §
5-’«l0.463.984 1 2
~ 2
w 
1 3101138!
_~  8:30AM-5:0O}'M
; swans-soxmazwm
1 .1 S
‘ . ’t§;§{}tt amt Lee  “xx . E ~ ~ ~ .- A . . A 1 . A
 ,.  . -, -Sm-1:): - H  to
VA ..2e.r1an:;i Bxsexeai (.};;a;an __ “W N ' ‘W ’V'“‘'” ’
»«r C     , . . . . , . RAVELABRUADAND 1-\-‘ORR
30; Harry; reege,s;,,g;g' : GM. is Washington and Lee University s Gay, Lesbian and I k I 325 345 h I h. b I
I ’ ‘ ' ’. ' 3 Cl! 0 - 1' 0UI' CBC lll ESICCOIIVCT
cheese shces Bisexual Qrgamzatron. We are an organization by and for all mnafﬁngnsh abfgadp Japan’ Timmy and S
 and bfxslexual undergrzcnidatiatehand lawstfuden If. I. $:ai)el:1r::z;”:1ér.e§p)log'aecrls]iplrg<)\t:ii<l:<:( ;)(<)>lrJI:l gtohozdar
V 0 S mont y meenngs an S0 0515 an ln Gram ired. For more information call
‘ 71

   

Safehouse gathering on a variable basis. For more
information, call the G&L Hotline at 462-4110, visit our WWW

homepage at http://wwzuwlu.edzx/~aecitrist/grtlhtrnl, or write: 

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services is now hiring
campus representatives. Lowest ratea

        
       
 

G&L
Washington and Lee University

University Center

to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona an
Kgngma City Beach. Call 1-800-648
4

To find out how to get involved with the Law School's
Committee on Gay and Lesbian Legal Issues, contact:

&~v!-.~«9:v°1:~*£"£N!~v.£-'.l:-'b¢£~

‘ -..‘ r-- »
‘l
\
 \ p ) ,

6 02. Selected Varieties 8 02. Harris Teeter C  ' = 12 oz Hams Teeter Butter Oréuit

~t Wise Potato Chips ou ream Texas Style B

      
  
     

The Committee on Gay and Lesbian Legal Issues
Washington and Lee University School of Law
Lewis Hall

tudents ceded.
Earn up to $2000+/mo. working for Cruis
Ships or Land-Tour companies + World Travel
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:
206) 971-3550 ext. C53421

eeeeeeeeoee

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

_x _ iscurts

.:é': “ ‘V ‘ ‘VA? ‘


  
 
   

  
 

    
    
 
 

~            V R       V   - Tuxedos for Rent
9 02. Marie CaIIender's 9~10.5 Oz. H rris Teeter Microwave 14.5-155 Oz. Reg. orunsatted Snyder's _
Przza Hard Pretzels — Formal Accessories

- Flasks
- Ray-Bans

- Embassy Boxers

— Red Wing Boots
up — W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars, Straw Hats
    \  —AmeriCan Flag Ties

74?

 
  

 
 
  

 
  
  

I 4  Varieties Wolfennans 12.5-15  Teeter”[:»‘. . ; .:3.8 02. Selected ‘Varietie .
Deluxe Muffms instant Oatm Vintage Seltzer

«» .;: VISA MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE

463-5383
5 '{ .4’
A A 5”“ W? °3"5l¢3"”°’d  I iA\nnomt:ruq' 0 new peorrorn r:ont:em|r. '1q  oi 

oda



'I3€COlTl€ C] tPClllI€C| sluclenl PQQP €C|l3|CCllOP

.‘ A1". ..
A 7

'G€l lPC]llI€CJ l0 pP€S€lIl PPOQPCITTIS CIIICI SPOIISOP €V€IIlS.

'Di(:l< up an c1pp|i(:<]li0n lorrm and siqn up ion on inlewiew

Lu Ttresdoq. Mar>(:h  in “T9 Universilq Cartier) oi
Carol Catrlhins, oﬂice.

M l
A 32 Oz. I-'lam's Teeter Refill‘  7 

Starterlogg Anﬁmal cracké; window cleaner ‘Gel involved and m<J|<e G CJlH€P€l1(i€ oi 
Prices Effective Through March 5, 1996 .Qlm.m7 462450]

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, February 28 Through March 5, 1996 |n Our Mecklenburg County Stores‘
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

tr

 

  

 
 

0
Last Week‘ iﬂhi: Ztlin -tum iﬂhi T1115 Week‘
MINi)oon’l‘n.Aca - Finished third at ODAC Indoor Championship g BASEBMJV _ rlvhursday (2/29) as Mary washlngwm 3:00 PM; ?
WINnooR'[‘iuca- Finished third at ODAC Indoor Championship Sunday VSV west Vlrglnla Tech l2)V 1:00 PM;
Mswiiuumr; - Finished second at SCAC Invitational Monday vs_ wesl Vlrglnla Tech 3:00 PM
WSWIMMING - Finished first at ODAC/ Atlantic States         MLACROSBE - Saturday vs. Virginia Wesleyan, 2:00 PM
Cl“‘ml*“°“5h‘p I WIACROSSI - Wednesday at Bridgewater, 4:00 PM
BAEEBALL- L, 4-2, at Savannah A&D; W, 6-5, vs. Maryville; MrmNms_ Thursdaylz/29) at James Madlsom 2:30 PM
L, 11-1, vs. Benedict; L,4—1, vs. Savannah A&D; W'IkNNis- Wednesday at Hollins, 3:30 PM
MiaN's LACR(;v8‘E1-0-3’/, ‘llll-1IThla‘tyvGl.li?lford; W, 11-5, at Lynchburg G0”. Thursday (3/7) at Virginia Wesleyan 12:30 PM x
PAGE 4 BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, INDOOR TRACK, BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS MARCH 1, 1996
M k ° ° '
0° 0°“ Wllllllllllg COIICIII BS SBBSOII III Stylﬂ
and sports
H t tl ' “
nosxom 0 6 Prince, Jacobs get
BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
 Mock  goes to postseason honors .
tion occurs only pace in a L
college career or most 9
..ooe.mougwou:d NCAAS for women s team
dedicate part of this col-
umn to politics.
Youcan probably guess ~ )4
xvhat I'm about to attempt. By JASON ZACHER
Ye:-i, I will try comparing Phi Staff Writer BY llA50N ZAVCHER
politics to sports. Just as Pl" 5”“ Wm“
eVachVcarididate  a CllS- The meu>s swim team l~m_
tmctwe personality» many ished second at the SCAC Invi- rt.
5P0Yl5l53m5 l13V¢ fl“ OW!“ tational last weekend, but only The women’s swimteam competed atthe ODAC/ Atlantic States
all team personality: So, on the scorecard, meet last weekend at Radford University, and won their third
‘he lollofvlng *5, 5 ll“ Of The Generals ﬁnished sec- straight title by nearly 400 points.
Pl531dellll3l°3ﬂd1d3‘°§a“d 0nd by 17.5 points, but were Coach Kiki Jacobs was awarded ODAC Coach of the Year
‘he mam ‘he?’ Wmlld hk‘_"lY beaten because Sewanee earned honors, while senior Rebekah Prince was named ODAC Co-Swim-
Plal’ ll’? ll the)’ We” 1"‘ 108 points in diving competi- mer of the Year. 1
volved in sports. ' tion, events that W&L does not Prince also had NCAA provisional qualifying times in three '
Pat Buchanan: Dallas compete in. events, and will find out Friday if she qualiﬁes.
C0Wb0Y5- Llke llle COW‘ Junior Nathan Hottle earned The Generals won 12 of 18 events, which includes all five relay
boys, l30Cl13l13l1_ 15 H°V5lt a trip to the NCAAs for two events, and they raised their season record to 8-5.
glllly and Y(V’VUV9llVll‘°-1' 13.5 events: his 1:54.51 time in the Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor Osophomorfe Megan Wiedmaier led the way with victories in the F
17“ 07 Y0“ 3 5 ,"'“~ !5 200 IM, and his 2:07.37 time in v - - - - - 10 and 200 reestyle. -
sho(V)t~from—the-hip styleis the 200 hreast, He also scored a gi£I;:d ;nge::::?sdf:ﬁ tosheggtngesvlgﬁzefinliglatlghg Sogﬁtg Invltatlonal Freshman Margaret Hoehl finished her strong season with a
similarto Cowboy bigwigs provisional qualifying time with ' y y ' P ' victory in the 500 free and two other top-three ﬁnishes.
-lcll)’ 301155 and BF‘ 1' Y a 4:09.85 in the 400 IM. Also posting victories for W&L were sophomore Bligh Wollner
Switzer. Besides, Every swimmer posted per- and 40o1M_ Also qualifying for and senior Craig sears with his with an NCAA provisional time, in the 100 breast, junior Anne Spencer in the 400 IM, and freshman or
BUCl15ll5ll’5 f3V°Tl"_8 Cf sonal—best times in every event NCAA provisional times were second place ﬁnishinthe 2001M as did the 400 free relay team of Greta Richter in the 1650 free.
8”“ “glll5 makes mm 3 1 they swam. The Generals also sophomore John Reed with his in 1:57.27. Stillman, Hottle, Sears, and junior Junior Laura Marshall joined Prince and Wiedmaier in winning
natural 30 be 8 °0Wl30}’v set six meet records. vlotoryirrthe1()()breastm59_67, The 200 free relay team of Steve Brigance. four relays, and Hoehl won three.
30b D0193 Kansas Hottle won three individual senior David Stillman with his Stillman, Sears, Hottle,andfresh- The NCAAS are March 21-23 The NCAAsforthewomen are March 14—16at Emory University
-layllawks basketbau events: the 200 IM, 200 breast, victory in the 50 free in 21.33, man Brad Wymore won its race at Emory University in Atlanta. lll Atl3I1la«
What better team for Dole V
to play for than his home-
state Jayhawks? The
Jayhawks have little team
personality and rarely win A T H L E T E S
championships, but they ,
are nevertheless ef ective,
and are always contenders (C) 
late in the season. Inter- F T H E E E K
estingly, Kansas last won
a championship in 1988, V
the same year that Dole "
last ran for the Republican
presidential nomination.
LamarAlexander: In-
dianapolis Colts. After
looking like a normal, me- \,
diocre, plaid~shiit type of _
team for most of the sea-  
son, the Colts compiled a - _
late charge,suiprisirtgtheir Rebekah Prince Nathan Hottle
playoff opponents, V Women’s Swimming Men’s Swimming
Alexander’s Hail Mary at~ .. , P.  . . _ ,  t _ t . .  V 5‘
tempt to win the RePub1i- ‘  51 * ¥~'Yl1‘?l‘l’¥‘¥s l‘.’».:a.n-?d 78‘,5.p9*l3l5*[l°”.l”3 s°°°.‘l§l'?§ac§AR . Prince was named Hottle hadaterrific daY
can nomination will likely . _ _  . _ _ _ _ _ .  ..  V, _ 3’31,¢h_V £8 Saltlrdéys V h,‘6nd¢€l1IP;W1tl151,t>9*n*S4 VY.&l~t> $9115 thfrdwﬁth ODACCo-Swimmerofthe at the SCAC Invitational,
fall short, too. 1  the  sandW9m?9-5,1”d°9l?§i'a°l?l¢3n3$ﬁ“*§l?eFl 9°93‘?! glgaslgm M531-1‘9mle a3dl3.“‘lgV§W3§¢ 35.‘ Year for the 3rd time after capturing three events to
Steve Forbes: Phoe~ "..ll’l,m9“39fﬁY§=»lF3m5 Samnlay 3331$»Ol?Ac’l3‘l9‘s?£'Cll3mPl9R . ?°1m5j?n‘§  P9333» Y95P¢P‘3V§lY*   , V _ provisionally qualifying automatically qualify for
nix Suns. The Suns havea ship;  ‘€333  l.l,l!‘9§9‘}°V¢ A ll ’ ' -Wl!ll6-A.LY1l°l1l?“1'§ fmshman  . forthe NCAAS in 3 events. the NCAAS. 7
lot of cash, butcash rarely »‘7"“3'i5W"Pl._l’A,y h95.‘.ALY‘~‘°hh"‘.'.g COHEEEE‘. ‘ '“ ‘ L . 33°‘! 5 Rlrfqlmel of me Meelmlh ll 
winschampionsliips. Like ff ';:fT,l1°=-11:y:‘.’l‘7*l‘b‘A‘1'§“*"°3 P°mm'§°.’3.  « -  °s°?l“§1e§9ha§l§ferwasll’°s§°l7¥»‘?f§l3¢m°"l; I,   . ‘ - 
Forbes, the Suns figu red to . Ql.3AC;°ha3lPlQl1$5‘iP'.3ll‘l ‘h°.‘l;?'l1.lll.ll‘l¢ ll?i20.Y°3.l'5~. 51319.53” VA’°-t-A03’? ‘ll both lite» °“°"7.l'l§ “lid ‘w°3'm‘1°nl”Sl3
be strong contenders, but 5  l°tﬁl§sh°d-a°l°$°: ah  W&.L‘°°k7 A H A  ‘ll 93¢-5"°’le 
me), have played mes, of   ,l?.oarViV:o‘l;VtV::V:tiVid,l.:%:Va nnoiiiteroondectou  ; ‘ b  thanami‘ ¢:.Wlll1~l1e M Q h ,
this season as flat as A ‘ ‘ ' e 11 S O O P S
Forbes’s tax proposal. V .... ..
As for President
Clinton: Kentucky Wild-
   record does not .
%‘i‘{:F..‘.‘i °.“§“l22%‘i."él3‘;°‘:’$         
They have won everyllllng W§t11V1§8_;$€5aII1;'.-Th! weeitsa the  run wtth 3. time of A2: 9.6,8,AyaltlVioug2i she placed h
in blowouts. The weak 1 M“ A “dim ﬁ3°e§V°“l‘b°l"“d Lyncllbﬁl M1$5Y»’3°3."°‘:~.»;.,;t W S   
Southeastern Conference A 3 A ,,
may rate a couple notches K .
abm/6L nd0nLaRoucheV evin Moore to the basketball
though?’ It seems By (Vjlllus puusmsy program izlth the hopetshoft add-
     .
presldcnlbefme Kentucky 8 A A   style made basketball all enjol;/—
hoomglf W]? f%um,1ed‘fﬁ . 15. of Vnroffg dgaye Most sports analysts would able outlet for all his players and
C n d O 1: 6 ml egm igrswclgatcllgs  Greg .. look at the final statistics for the he became a popular member of
only Bob bole if not 1leV;;ﬁVn§shedsecond': V V  Washington and Lee men’sbas- the athletic department.
W ' b f  I ’ hornorewillolspn ‘ V A _  V ,. ketball team and decide the en- His skill at recruiting and his Y
Ivgglgillglnmﬁggfﬁzﬂefjig ‘V V  Vjf§‘_:.  I : Stili;_§plethotisV.Vfyoungta§e1it‘Sliould;make* V tire season was a loss. V positive attitude will surely at-
Passes from Jacque   _. xs..tit?t...9f‘t=35«0. av‘? i59“f“5.:.°°¥¥!P?*1‘*V°-"1 ‘h5°9A¢.‘f°"Y'°.335§*9 come» :  -   But, underneath. the 3-21 fr tract new Prospects *0 ‘ht Pro-
Vaughn “mi 2000 .. . , V:Vs‘l¢;uoA Amgtuast Kegue .  , .lose~:afewVVgood;3e0ple,buthopefu§ly e’}._lbesbletoV_rVrzak rial record and a missed ODAC gram and produce a formidable
Elsswheminlhéspons 6 logofﬁﬁ. . ”M0_ne;mVVsaVtd.V§=i 2; V . . ;   Tournament appearence, the rival for ODAC teams.
world those Washin to“ V ‘ . ‘ ' V  ’V  V V Generals have had moments that The Generals saw amazing
Bullegsareback atimgain VV  V Vdoorhaclejseasonsw ' promote good memories and a things happen this year, all of *’
Be lnnm ln1997_98gthe§_ who GenetaIs.host the   V positive outlook for the future. which rekindledinterestin men’s
wVVgbekng)WnasVhe“,VaSVV- V .  V V V. V   V , -V V  . ..sVcs.nﬁ llleV.GeVnem  V Thisseasonsawthreeseniors basketball. V
ington wizards What    V V rV;VVsl?e1fVfoVr;:jte;  is comiVi;g;Va1onVg'Vwe1 give all they had to make the V Coach Moore put his team to
. . ' " of th¢VMeet_ after capturing,twpjevei_its_A.aiic§ pla g in the top five \ nthe outdoorscaso ” .  team progress. Cam Dyer ended its biggest test of the year when
quahﬁes as wlzardry for    ’ T T   . ' ~ '3“ .1  I"     A = x1 A" —=‘ 7‘ '  A ' I * ‘  . . his career with l 507 points the Generals entered theconfines .
ll“? l3Ull5l5? Glleolglle . '5 A 5 5 ‘ V A A A I ‘L I V ' " V  averaging 22 2 poihts and 9 re: of Cameron Hall to face VMI a V
Mules“ leadlllg a fast bounds a game He played matchup which hadlast occurred
break? ,C.l“l5 Webb“ get” W 9 b k b a  1  S f‘ I through sore ankles, an injured almost a half—century ago.
mlg mlured? Thf’ Mail‘  S    d  hipandseveraidoubleandtriple- The Warner Center housed
Pﬁcelmde? Washmgton S team defenses to keep the Gen- the sports expertise of Boston
24—30 recorV(VlV?b This nétme . 0 erals competitive Globe writer Bob Ryan and saw ’
change cou eoneo t e K f h b  b h 1 k , ’ ,, .
oslsllleta3ll.Vlsl;lll. 9}’ P98 H1911 C0I1tI'1 ut0I‘S 0 91“ Hg 13 Out 00 ....£:y.::.::§:.$:.:r::.:.:‘:;:::::: ::‘:...E:r.';:;2;:..s:::..3%.:;“:.:
mo of ﬁle wé‘ekl’mme§V _ _ V 1 h h d f d b February 16th. He was named NBA contest. No sports analyst
frog my mam man. DaVe.VVV:; malmalned 3“ aggle551V° 5l)’l5 3 W3)’: gave 5’ leam 3 muc ' ‘fm Q the 55350" 3“ ecame 3 first team All-QDAC afterlead- can see these results and call this
Justice, , Justice did not VVV By CHRIS PUGSLEY of play that would scare any op- neeHeVV oosVl. V f h G ull-time startfer. h M mg the league m seO,mg_ season negallve ,-
have 2; good week Vase Phi Staff writer ponent. Afullrosterwould pro- V u :Val1VtdelV>Voint ort ebVl=.Vn- S Cjurrent ClVeVs me}; heggn J(V)n Colfman slarledme sea_ with names llke Kevln
week First police found V vide the means to expand this erfa s an a tff61’65P0ll5l£ElY A“°bgra3_5»kl Il(155_Y Tulg 37 la son in a bit of a slump bVut fin- Cobbin, Brian Jamison, Chris
hiscatrparkelﬁnthe middle V game plan oveVrafullV4O minutes. 3 VrVunning zVin od ense geare TVtV)r Am er Hind e, an: reesVeV:, an lslledllle yea, suOVngV luumg ml_ Couzem Kelly DVyer and Ella
Ofthe qtrcetinadmg and TheVWash1ngton and Lee But, despite this apparent Ga -C0ll1llO aVn passlnfg. V VV 3. nnVa Low en l'O(1jll‘Vl int! c rVe- merbus llueemmmers and m_ Zavolmsky relummglollleeoun
crimetsinfested South women sbasketballteam had its handicap, the Generals defeated Vhenera s p3lntVgudar V inis e tllrnéng rosVter an h 00 to ma e spumg lus fellow teammates next year end a new reemllmg V‘
Florida neighborhood ups and downs this year. Randolph—Macon Women sCol- eVyVear 233 V e ea pr indcVareeVl t e enera samuc strongerteam wlth lVlard_u0sed eVff0l—t and out- eless eme,mgV llle Generals look
While Justice med-de- But, they V say that lege and Lynchburg, two ODAC 35515 5 all 3 ‘{VaY5 P 3Y5 _ (‘"8 “ext )’531'- V standing leadership. primed and ready for a run at the
_ _ perseverenceisavirtue,andthese tournament teams. d6f6nS_€- Senior l6ad6rVSl1lP W85 PrV0gresS_1S llle kc)’ for Coach Derek Carterendured another ODAC Tournament next year.
flymglllallle Wasini/VolVvVed .. Generals are Vmueus The Generals’ two senior co- never in shortage on this team. Terri Dadio’s team and this knee injury, but fought his way Basketball fans around eam_
lgaalnyliugsavhtgy C:V‘VfV1VlC\V’1lVlV‘:_ Large deﬁcits turned into re- captains, Sandra Holmes and If you re looking fpr a tough nucleus of talent willfsurely pro- through rehab end was ableVt0 pus should be eagerly amlelpal_ Vs
deny “gm aannouncemem ; spectable resultsandevery game Allison HuVll, provided stellar group (V) hreturningnp ayer: t e videsome excitement orthecom- eoutmue hls solld playVe0utl-lb- mg next seasou just lo see these
that his wife Halle Berry Wawchallenge gladll’ aCC°PlVed~ Play f°ljlll°ll‘lea”l_ and lgul)’ WP‘ V e"°_llf‘ 5_ as 3 We VBVVSVSV9 h“iV5‘ "l2SYe3l5- _“ _ _ uting key points and rebounds names earn their place in Gener-
was divorcing him No coach could ask for anything resenlle VeVa<V1ershVip an VsporVts- Perk 0rViViVa Vean em V 1C is e d uCtCeSShWl rVeqillVrVe p:tiprViVee throughout the sVeas0u_ uls besketbull hlslury_
And we think we have mom - mans 1p" O mes a-gresswep ay lc S‘w] re ‘(Jim lilltcir hoflears an a lmg wot e ‘C’ U e The Senlors efforls have The Ph‘ SP0“ Staff blds
. . . The en<Vl0lll1l5 568500 P0S€d led her lo 800 P01lll5 alld 500 expellellce 3“ W1 91 9 00“ enera 5 °3”"0l get all)’ lougllel been appreciated and will be re- farewell to Cam Dyer, Derek
“bad Worryfng 3l?°“lm‘d' new questions for the Generals, rebounds for her career in only leaders for the Generals. Dean than they are. membered by their teammates Canenmd Vlem Coffman andluoks >-
lermsa Wglsllallong and including the need forafull ros- three years. Shewasconsistently Was. always a force in the post The future speaks for itself in and euaellesf0lseas0nsl0eOme_ forward to the Seemln l brl ht
Mock C0“ Pl’9P3l'3l1°ll5--- ter. Withon|ynineplayers,W&L in double-figures in scoring and and Hicks came on strong at the these players. The Generals welcomed future of Generals baslgglballg

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

    

 

Mock Convention 1996  

scheduled events

First Session (March 1). Call to
Order, Presentation of Colors, Pledge of
Allegiance, National Anthem, 2:13 p.m.
Invocation, 2:35. Call for Convention,
2:40. Greetings from the University,
Lexington, the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the district, 2:45.. Credentials
Committee Report, 3:40. Election of
Permanent Chairmen, 3:45. Opening
Remarks from Administrative, Personnel,
and Political Chairmen, 3 .'50. Rules
Committee Report, 4:05. Benediction,
Adjournment, 4:10. Second Session.
Call to Order, 7:45 p.m. Invocation, 7:50.
Opening Address of former V. P. Dan
Quayle, 7:55. Platform Address of RNC
Chairman HaleyBarbour, 8:20. Platform
Committee Report, 8:45. Platform
Debate, 8:50. Benediction, Adjournment,
9:30. Third Session (March 2).
Call to Order, 9:00 a.m. Presentation of
Colors, Pledge ofAlliance, National
Anthem, Invocation, 9:10. Address of
Sen. John Warner (R-Va.), 9:20. Address
of Secretary Bill Bennett, 9:40. Keynote
Address of Speaker Newt Gingrich,
10:10. Nominations for President and
Vice President of the United States,
10:40. Adjournment, 12:00 p.m.

/ mm/2, /9.96’

'\

‘xx 159
*5

4

’‘~.e'

:5
‘
~;

1:. ‘[1 ‘ﬁr _. .. ﬁg;
‘,§_-:.::, 3 ‘. ‘I .
-. F ‘\ ‘ It  $5..‘ $11,’ - ’

Once every four years the political

pulse of our nation beats strongest not within the Beltway
but in a stretch of grass and red brick along the

Shenandoah Valley. America turns her eyes
to one Washington and Lee Univer-
Sity, and in particular to its tradition of a MOCk

COHVCHtiOH. With remarkable accuracy the stu-

dents of W&L have cast votes foretelling the results of
actual party conventions in past years, and in their judg-

ment America once again is interested. For CH6

ffCI1ZiCd W€CkCI1d students will close their
books and enter 3  Of 

activity, donning straw hats assuming the responsibil-

ity of state delegates for the Republican Convention of
1996. The hours will ﬂy until each student casts his vote

for this year’s nominees, and with the final

tally Mock Convention 1996 will draw to a close. and the
political spirit of MC ’96 seems to fade, however, the en-
ergy soon transfers into preparations for the next Mock
Convention on W&L’s campus, and we leave behind the

legacy of 0111‘ Spit

  p 1   I
L  lively  on MC Platform issues  some words from our sponsorsl
‘.’9ocouege:,:.  noteworthy odds ehdehds.    e

, 5   1 k Con speakers, and at the Mock  of previous years 

 ~ an overview of the candidates in the 1996 presidential cam-

.‘_"- an  '0'
‘,“.il('\’7?‘-73’ ‘I’ r
‘. ' ”

Speakers/History

Gingrich leads
pack of impressive
speakers for Mock
Con weekend

it.

William Bennett

ROBIN SEATON
PHI STAFF WRITER

Four top Republicans are slated to ad-
dress Washington and Lee’s 166 Republi-
can Mock Convention, which begins Fri-
day, March 1. House Speaker Newt
Gingrich, Republican National Committee
Chairman Haley Barbour, former Vice Presi-
dent Dan Quayle, and fonner Secretary of
Education William Bennett will speak to the
W&L community during the weekend of
political fervor.

In addition to these Republican notables,
Majority Whip Tom DeLay of Texas, As-
sistant Whip Bob Goodlatte of Virginia,
Virginia Governor George Allen, and Vir-
ginia Senator John Warner will speak at the
convention.

Keynote speaker Newt Gingrich was
elected Speaker of the House in January
1995. He isalso known as a leader of the
Contract With America, which established
a political agenda and legislative course for
the Republican party.

Gingrich served as House Republican
Whip from 1989 until 1994 and was named
Time magazine “Man ofthe Year” in 1995.
The House Speaker will speak Saturday
morning during Mock Con’s third session.

Haley Barbour has served as Republican
National Committee Chairman since Janu-
ary 29, 1993 and also chairs the National
Policy Forum.

Under the Reagan Administration
Barbour functioned as Deputy Assistant to
the President and Director of the White
House Office of Political Affairs. Barbour
will present the Convention’s platform ad-
dress on Friday evening.

Former Vice President Dan Quayle will
deliver the opening address at Friday
evenings second session. In addition to his
position as Vice President of the United
States under George Bush, Quayle was
elected by the state of Indiana to two terms
in the House of Representatives.

His election to the Senate in 1980 made
him the youngest senator ever elected from
that state. Quayle served on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, the labor and
Human Resources Committee, and the Bud-
get Committee during his legislative stint.
He currently serves as chairman of the
Hudson Institute’s Competitiveness Cen-
ter, founded in 1993 to address global
competition’s challenges.

Speaking Saturday morning will be Wil-
liam Bennett, best known as the Secretary of
Education under Ronald Reagan. Bennett
assumed the role of chairman of the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities in
1981, appointed by Reagan, and in 1989 he
was appointed director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy by then—Presi—
dent George Bush.

Despite his departure from government,
Bennett remains active in the national po-
litical realm; he is currently co-director of
the Empower America organization, as well
as a senior editor ofNational Review maga-
zine and a Cultural Policy Studies distin-
guished fellow at the Heritage Foundation.
Bennett is also author of The Moral Com-
pass and The Book of Virtues, two recent
New York Times best-sellers.

Mock Con:
predicting
correctly

since 1908

CELESTE RASMUSSEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

No one would ever guess that in the fervor of primaries, political debates and campaign
appearances that are the prelude to our nation’s 1996 presidential election that all eyes
would turn to the small town of Lexington, Virginia this weekend. The reason that they
are here, however, is that the events in this small town may predict a presidential nominee,
indeed our nation’s next president.

The Washington and Lee Mock Convention has been a university tradition since 1908.
Inspired by the visit of William Jennings Bryan to the campus, a group of students decided
to hold a mock presidential convention patterned after the Democratic Convention that
would be held that summer in Denver.

This convention was a far cry from the conventions of today, however, but several
convention floor fights and small brawls later, W&L students picked their first successful
nominee—and a tradition was born.

To be sure, Washington and Lee’s Mock Conventions have been some of the most
successful in history. With a 15 out of 20 accuracy rate and only one incorrect nomination
since 1948, Newsweek has called us “the most realistic” of such gatherings.

The success rate of Mock Con stems from the fact that this is endeavor is not a measure
ofstudent opinion. Months before the actual convention State Chairs, Steering Committee
members, and hundreds of student delegates are making phone calls, following newspa-
pers, and consulting political experts to figure out the question that is foremost in
everyones mind, “Who will win the out—of—office nomination.”

Mock Con has certainly not been immune from the random turn of events that surround
all political guesswork. In 1936 a tie in the nominating process for candidate Arthur
Vandenburg was decided when a missing Pennsylvania delegate was brought in to vote
from the tennis courts.

In 1952, the correct nominee, General Dwight D. Eisenhower, was chosen only after
a last minute switch by the California Delegation which was siding with then California
Governor Earl Warren. Tragedy struck in 1956 when former Vice President and guest of
honor Alben Barkley collapsed from a heart attack and was pronounced dead after
delivering his speech.

In true W&L style, however, the seriousness of this weekend has often been
complimented by much festivity. In 1972 Former President Jimmy Carter’s press
secretary missed Carter's speech because he was out drinking and playing pinball with
students. Students have their fun as well, with numerous delegation parties held to
celebrate their hard work.

Perhaps it is this W&L spirit that brings the life and dedication to this endeavor. When
former housing secretary Jack Kemp visited the campus for the Mock Con kick off
weekend last spring the enthusiasm of the students “surpassed [his] expectations.”

Expectations ofthis year;s convention have certainly helped foster student excitement
with convention appearances by Newt Gingrich, Dan Quale, and Bill Bennett being added
to a long list of famous guests which include Richard Nixon, Harry Truman, and Tip
O’Neill.

Indeed with a weekend of parades, speeches, and convention ﬂoor excitement ahead
ofthem, the members ofthe Washington and Lee certainly have much to look forward to.
The rest ofthe country does as well, for the fate of our nation might be predicted here in
Lexington.

From Phi Archives. . .
Barkleys death turns Americas eyes on W&L

“I would tathet he a servant in the of the events surrounding Barkley’s ad-

house ofthe Lord than sit in the seats of dT°55 for f1 °‘{mP”5 radio 5h9W- He
the mighty}, grabbed his microphone after Barkley

After thundering those words at
Washington and Lee‘s I956 Mock Con-
vention, former US. vice president and
Mock Convention key—noter Alben
Barkley collapsed. the victim of a sud-
den heart attack.

Barkley, a former US. Senator and
Representative from Kentucky, served
asvice president under Harry S.Truman.
He was one ofthe few remaining politi-
cal figures ofthe Roosevelt era. One of
the most popular and influential Demo-
cratsofhis time, the 78 year-old Barkley
was known as the “old ﬁre—horse.”

Minutes later Barkley’s death would
thrust W&L into the national political
spotlight more than ever before, with his
final words, abiblical quotation, ringing
in its ears.

W&L Journalism Prof. John K
Jennings, who was a 22-year-old senior
at the time, taped the only commentary

collapsed and , with the sounds ofconfu—
sion and grief in the background, de-
scribed the stunned audience and at-
tempts to revive Barkley. His work was
broadcast by the Columbia Broadcast-
ing System throughout the evening.

The convention had been postponed
indefinitely, but latera faculty executive
committee and a student steering com-
mittee decided the convention would
resume one week after Barkley’s death.

In his re—opening address Dr. Gaines
said ofBarkley, “He came to us at a great
sacrifice. He had twenty-five invitations
to speak in Virginia in April, but he came
to Washington and Lee because of his
intense admiration fro the authenticity
of the Mock Convention... I know you
will measure up to the obligation upon
you, for the eyes of the nation are fo-
cused on the convention and the univer-
sity community.”

Executive Board

Ross: Mock Con’s political powerhouse

DAN ODENWALD
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Landing an interview with Mock Convention Political
Chairman Bob Ross is like fighting foradryer in the laundry
room of Graham-Lees on a Friday afternoon. Damn near
impossible. ,

Picture it: Monday afternoon (96 hours before the con-
vention) in the Mock Con ofﬁce on the third ﬂoor of the
University Center. Scores of C-School-types swarm about
—-- conversing on the phone, hammering away at comput-
ers, and huddling in intense debriefing sessions. There he
is. Feet perched up on the desk, he laughs loudly as the
phone hangs precariously between his ear and shoulder.
After a few minutes, Ross jumps up and strides over to
Platform Director Andrew Olmem’s corner where the two
begin speaking in GOPese. I stumble over, hoping only to
steal 30 seconds of his time.

"Excuse me Bob. could the Phi possibly get an interview
sometime today.” I inquire. “Perhaps 7 o’clock?”

“Let’s try 10.” Ross decides. "Yes, that will work.”

And it’s decided. Ross is known for his take-charge
style. Around the office, he’s often considered the loudest
and most outspoken ofthe three tri-chairmen. ln conjunc-
tion with Administrative Chairman David Stewart, and
Personnel Chairman Courtney Tucker, the three have been
leading Mock Convention for the last two years.

“I may be the loudest,” admits Ross. “But we comple-
ment each other and have grown together. Dave, Courtney,
and l —— all opinionated individuals -— balance each other
out.”

Ross is the self-proclaimed crazy-idea man. it was he
who wanted to see the Mock Con tradition of fireworks
continued, and it was he who lobbied for the fly—by of Navy
airplanes during Friday morning’s parade. Indeed, Ross is
illuminated with pre-Convention excitement. What he
wants more than anything is for that energy to catch. Ross
wants the campus to share in his Mock Con fever.

From the very beginning of his undergraduate career,
Ross has been a political horse. Active in the College
Republicans, Ross met Ted Elliot, a Mock Convention
trustee known for his hard edge and seriousness with which
he approached the event. Elliot answered questions Ross
had about Mock Con, eventually enticing him to apply.

The trustees had a difficult task, explains Ross. They
had to pick worthy successors who would work well to-
gether and pull off another successful Mock Con. “The tri-
chairmen have gelled together and developed nicely,” says
Ross.

Halfway through our interview, Media ChairJeffZeiger
enters the room. He motions to Ross who pauses the
questioning with a slight raising of his hand. Zeiger
requests the fax number of a Gingrich aide. Ross supplies
the information quickly, turns to me, and asks, “Where were
we?”

Ross’s days are filled with such Mock Con demands. If
it’s not fax numbers, it’s talking with a pollster, meeting
with a regional chairman, or researching on the lntemet. He
seems to be in a constant state of motion. Panic, he
concedes.

“This past month has been ridiculous,” laments

Gaursrmrron Lax

Ross. “I come into the office
every morning yelling.”

His most recent crisis? Pat
Buchanan. The renegade tele-
vision commentatorhascaused
quite a few headaches for Ross.
Dole is no longer the heir ap-
parent, causing some Mock Con
officials to label this a “con-
vention ofprediction instead of
confirmation.” Ross believes
the recent string of Buchanan
victories will make this the
strangest primary season in the
last 40 years.

“lt’s upinthe air,”says Ross.
However, Ross isn’t frightened
by the uncertainty. lndeed, he
believes that Mock Con’s
beauty lay in its opportunity to
predict.

“Mock Con can alter the na-
tional scene,” says Ross. it’s a
window into March. The coun-
try canlookto us because ofour
detailed and laborious research,
says Ross.

The path tothe March 1 and
2 extravaganza hasn’t always
been easy. Ross admits being
upset and disappointed withthe
negative reaction to the Spring
Kick-Off last year. Students
criticized the decision by Con-
tact and Mock Con to spend
$30,000 to bring Jack Kemp to
campus. Furthermore. some
criticized his speech as ram-
bling and opaque. Ross be-
lieves the nay-sayers failed to
see the big picture.

“Kempis alloverthe place,”
says Ross. “He’s the adviser to
Mock Con who single-handedly
got us Newt Gingrich.”

Ross also enjoys to highlight the Mock Con homepage
which has received national praise. lt’s a brand new
component of W&L’s Mock Convention that has never
been done before. Ross calls the accomplishment “the first
thing we did differently” from other Mock Cons.

He also points to the research done over the lntemet.
Ross praises the time and cost saving methods of the
lnforrnation Superhighway by which large amounts of
political legwork was done.

Mock Con has marked many personal victories for Ross
as well as the highly-touted public ones. Ross believes he’s
become more independent and has let go of his need to
micro-manage. He’s learned the beneﬁts of good organiza-
tional skills and how to write a decent letter.

Ross has personally befriended Lance Tarranoe, the
GOP pollster and Mock Con advisor. Ultimately, Ross
hopes to use his Mock Con experience to aid him in law
school back in his home state of Oklahoma. Or maybe he’ll
make use of all those contacts he’s made in Washington to

ﬁe MOCK CONVENNON 19% ak

No -, THEV
gor THEN
FLASKS

ARE THEY

wmmle To
MEET THE

SPEAKERS ?

1 4///////I////////”////I' .:

Bob Ross, Political C airman  Curtey Tucker, Person-
nel Chairmen, take a break from Mock Con activities.

win a job on the Hill.

Ross isn’t sure where exactly the future will take him,
but Mock Con has taught him to be aggressive and to go
after what he wants — a skill that will surely benefit him
in whatever he chooses to do after graduation. .

Ross has much to be proud of as the 1996 Mock
Convention approaches. The list of speakers is impres-
sive, the homepage will undoubtedly become an endur-
ing feature of Mock Con, and he has grown personally as
a result of his experience.

“Above all, I want Mock Con to to be something that
Washington and Lee students will remember forever,”
says Ross.

Upon the completion of the interview, Ross heads
back to his ofﬁce, probably to make good use of the few
hours remaining in the day. He has already scheduled a
9 a.m. appointment with Olmem to begin the daily round
of calls to pollsters.

As the elephant race marches on, Ross continues to
keep his ear to the ground — confident in the fact that he
can predict who will win.

' LONFISCATEV.

A?newspa_" P6!‘ or aﬂibf

favorite-’parties. —- .

ALEX CHRISTENSON
PHI STAFF WRITER

These are brief profiles of the men who are vying for the Republican presidential
nomination. They are listed in order of thenumber of delegates they have been allotted thus
far in the race, and then by the number of votes they have attracted. Delegate counts are
taken from CNN estimates. 1,990 delegates will be selected, and 996 are needed to
nominate. There are 3 uncommitted delegates and 5 are committed to Sen. Phil Gramm of
Texas, who has left the race.

Magazine publisher Steve Forbes of New Jersey

Malcolm Stevenson “Steve”
Forbes, Jr., was born in Morristown,
New Jersey in 1947. Forbes was presi-
dent ofthe Young Republicans in high
school and graduated from Princeton
with a degree in American History. He
founded a business magazine called
Business Today, which continues to
be published by Princeton undergradu-
ates.

During the Vietnam War, Forbes
joined the National Guard.

Forbes works at Forbes magazine.
He was a columnist until 1990, when
he became editor-in-chief upon his
father’s death. He also took over as
president and CEO of Forbes, Inc.
Forbes has also served as the head of
Radio Free Europe and Radio Libeny
during the Reagan and Bush adminis-

trations, and as chairman of the Board of Directors of Empower America, a conservative
think tank founded by Bill Bennett, Jack Kemp, and Jeanne Kirkpatrick.

Forbes has been married for 24 years to his wife Sabina (long i) Beekman Forbes, and
has ﬁve daughters, Sabina, Roberta, Catherine, Moira, and Elizabeth, who range in age
from 22 to eight.

Forbes won the Delaware and Arizona primaries, both of which award all theirdclegates
to the winner. Forbes has 60 pledged delegates to the Republican Convention.

Since he is paying for his own campaign with his personal fortune, while still accepting
outside contributions, Forbes is not subject to campaign spending limits and will not have
to quit the race for lack of funds. He has pledged to stay in the race until the end, and his
recent momentum in Delaware and Arizona may increase his chances in upcoming
primaries. Forbes has recently toned down what was perceived as a negative campaign, and
is emphasizing his ﬁat-tax message of “hope, growth and opportunity.”

Commentator Pat Buchanan of Virginia

Patrick Joseph Buchanan was bom
in 1938 in Washington, D.C.
Buchanan graduated from
Georgetown University with a degree
in English and Philosophy. He re-
ceived his master’s degree in Joumal-
ism from Columbia University.
During the Vietnam War,
Buchanan was 4-F with a bad knee.
He is now an avid runner.
From 1966-74, Buchanan served
as Richard Nixon’s assistant. In 1974,
he served as Gerald Ford’s assistant.
From 1985-87, Buchanan was Ronald
Reagan’s White House Communica-
tions Director. Buchanan wrote a na-
tionally syndicated column, appeared
as co-host of CNN’s Crossﬁre, and
hosted a nationally syndicated radio
show. In 1992, Buchanan was the only GOP primary opponent of incumbent President
George Bush.

Buchanan has been married to Shelley Ann Scamey Buchanan for 25 years. Shelley
Buchanan was also an aide to Richard Nixon.

Buchanan won contests in Alaska, Louisiana and New Hampshire. Buchanan has 37
pledged delegates to the Republican Convention.

Buchanan has sounded non-traditional themes such as fencing the border, imposing
trade sanctions and abandoning international trade treaties, and using the federal govern-
ment to attempt to create more jobs. Other candidates have denounced him as extreme, but
Buchanan’s supporters seem to be oblivious to criticism of him. Buchanan’s strategy
seems to be a “plug-away” strategy.

He is adequately funded and has momentum heading into thenext primaries. No
Republican has ever won the White House without first winning in New Hampshire since
that primary started in 1952, but then again, no Democrat had done it either until Bill
Clinton in 1992.

‘W;4P7¢5P&770.45
Si .5.. mza§..é
7wao¢dwze cued Séadee

I? S. zcurdadﬁé St.
463-2742

Candidates

Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana

Richard Lugar was born in In-
dianapolis, Indiana, in 1932. Lugar
received his B.A. from Denison Uni-
versity and received his master’s
from Oxford in the Rhodes Scholar
program.

Lugar served in the U.S. Navy
from 1957-60, as an executive at
Agriculture Industries from 1960-

' 64,wasanlndianapolisschoolcom-
missioner from 1964-67, and as
mayor of Indianapolis from 1968-
75.

He has been a senatorsince 1975,
serving as head of the Intelligence
and Agriculture Committees.

Lugar is married to Charlene
Smeltzer Lu gar.

They have four sons, Mark, 36,

Robert, 34, John, 31, and Davis, 30, and seven grandchildren.

Lugar has won no primaries or caucuses, and has no pledged delegates.

However, he seems determined to push on. Lugar often addresses overlooked national
security issues and advocates abolishing the income tax and replacing it with a national
sales tax. So far, he has not attracted much support.

Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas

Robert Joseph Dole was born
in Russell, Kansas, in 1923. Dole
attended the University of Kansas
from 1941 to 1943. Dole joined
the Army during WWII at the age
of 19. He was a second lieutenant
in the 10th Mountain Division
when he was wounded attempting
to rescue his wounded radioman.

Dole’s right shoulderwas shat-
tered. During rehabilitation, he
learned to write with his left hand.
Dole received two Purple Hearts
and a Bronze Star with Oakleaf
Cluster for his acts of heroism.
After the war and extensive reha-
bilitation, Dole earned his law de-
gree from Washburn University in
Topeka. Kansas.

Dole served as a Kansas state
legislator, county attorney, and congressman. In 1968, Dole was elected to the Senate.
He served as chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1971 and as Gerald
Ford’s vice-presidential running mate in 1976. Dole was elected Senate Majority
Leader in 1984, and served as Minority Leader until the Republicans recaptured the
Senate in 1994. Dole also ran for president in 1980 and 1988.

Dole was married to Phyllis Holden in 1948. They had one daughter, Robin, 41.
They divorced in 1972. Dole has been married to Elizabeth Hanford Dole for 20 years.
Elizabeth Dole served as Transportation Secretary under Reagan and as Labor Secretary
under Bush, and is now the president of the American Red Cross.

Dole has won Iowa, North Dakota and South Dakota. He has 35 pledged delegates
to the Republican Convention.

Dole seems still to be running as the front-runner, though he has no momentum
and has faltered dramatically thus far. Dole seems to have abandoned his sunny attitude
and has called Pat Buchanan “extreme” and accused Steve Forbes of “trying to buy the
election.” He is counting on a Southern ﬁrewall strategy and the endorsements of most
of the key Republican ofﬁceholders in the country.

l/llfllllllllllﬂlll .

Fmr Gov Lmar Alexander of Tennessee

Lam ar A nd rew
Alexander was born in 1940
in Nashville, Tennessee.
Alexander graduated from
Vanderbilt University and
received his law degree from
New York University.
During the Vietnam
War, Alexander received
student deferments while he
attended law school.
Lamar Alexander was
governor of Tennessee
1979-87. He served as chair-
man of the National Gover-
nors Association. He and
his wife co-founded Corpo-
rate Child Care Management
Services. Alexander then
1 sewed as president of the
University of Tennessee. He served as Education Secretary under Bush. Alexander has
also served as a co-director of the conservative think tank Empower America, and is now
counsel for the law firm of Baker, Donelson, Beannan & Caldwell.
Alexander has been married to Leslee “Honey” Buhler Alexander for ? years.
Honey Alexander served as an assistant to Texas Sen. John Tower and is currently vice-
chair of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. They have four
children, Andrew, 26, Leslee, 23, Kathryn, 21, and William, 16.
Alexander has won no primaries or caucuses, but has amassed 10 Republican
Convention delegates. ,
Alexander is attempting to present himself as the sensible, young, thoughtful
alternative to both Buchanan’s extremism and Bob Dole’s stasis. He has failed to win the
one crucial contest that might ignite his campaign, but is hoping to surge in the South.

an - idales

Page 5

Former Amb. Alan Keyes of Maryland

Alan Keyes was born
in 1950 in New York
City. Keyes attended
Comell University and
received his Ph.D. in
Government from
Harvard University.
During the Vietnam
War, Keyes was vehe-
mently pro-war, yet
skipped military service
on a deferment.
Alan Keyes served as
ambassador to the U.N.
Economic and Social
Council and Assistant
Secretary of State for In-
ternational Organiza-
tions under Reagan. He
was the interim president
ofAlabama A&M University. He was twice nominated for the US. Senate in Maryland,
wrote a nationally syndicated column and hosted his own nationally syndicated radio talk
show.
Keyes has been married to Jocelyn Marcel Keyes for 15 years. They have three
children, Francis, 12, Maya, nine, and Andrew, six.
Keyes has won no primaries or caucuses, and has no pledged delegates.
Keyes is running to be heard more than running for president. Despite his poor
showings, Keyes continues to try to bring “moral issues” such as abortion and school
prayer to the fore. A fiery orator, Keyes does not seem bothered by his lack of support.

r‘

PRlNCIPL!:S 0./ii S()l."2\'l) RI-‘.TlRl€.\lIZ.\"l'

[NV

Fireworks

and music a
la Mock Con

Following the close of Friday
night’s second session, Mock
Convention invites the Washing-
ton and Lee community to enjoy

COULD LIVE LONGER.
INVEST RBGULARLY SO YOU
CAN AFFORD T0.

EXERCISE REGULARLY AND YOU

a fireworks display. Simply look
to the night skies for a dazzling
presentation of fun with explo-
srves.

As if the fireworks were not

 399) ram: lv.w\A<xa amid-.v.t:.-m1CJ:._w ﬁn’-z.~mx.‘ }.,...'v.- Faun‘.  I}./«Aw.x. .\‘w Xvi. NT

At1t.‘(‘l\.iU)> am: living longer than ever. So its quite
possible you'll spend 20 or 30 _\’nars or more in

dc-rrlly wealthy. vlsanccs are you'll m>t‘»rl more lltzux
your pension and -Social Security to support the kind
nl lilcsrx-lo_voi1'll want.

I low turn you help (*t).\ttt‘£‘ that ymxill be in goocl
lixmncial :<lra;x*’.’ Sign up lor 'l‘l:\:\-Cl{l".l" SR3» 

l}ill|)l1 .Il\li l'P,V.(-‘,14f(‘l).
SKA: an easy. No pain, no sweat.

'|'lxn> lxtsr ’s\'.'\‘\' to build sumigth ~ pl*iysiml or lisml
» is to start at it lcvcl that's t‘0:nl0r't.\l>lc and add to
A OHII I-l.'E(iln‘~‘” Rb v\/(NJ S0 i-‘long.
With Tl:\:\-Cl{l’.l“ .\'R.‘\§_. you (0ll\¢l!lEI|lly cun-
trilmtc through Uvcmr employer‘: p'a_\‘l‘oll syslcrn. You

-
I L

' Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

u.-..s I'» .-...

l’\'llt\.‘lttL‘!Il. Can you .'|l’lot'<l Sr? lil\ll‘.‘4§‘§‘0\l‘f‘§‘ intlepvstu

lJX~(l\‘lt?l‘T(?(l nnnxxiriét .1\(1ll.'\l)l£ onlx to people in t‘tl\J'

.. an .~\r.aiv4n -I .\vn~:r~, Ia.
Atyl .~x;nm.~., . .|l ltluntu" ‘I733 (U: '55‘!
..; IA \.t‘s(..l ml. .1... .« t»...um,m_.n ‘sonnet

can start with at modest amount and xnt'r<>.'t.w_\'our
L'ontribution as _\-'our salary pmtx.

The impmunt thing is to start now. l,)el;I_ving lor
even ;« _vc.ur or two can have .1 big impact on (lu-
amounr ntincoxttc you'll lmvc ~.\-hen you retire.

'I'lAA~CREF:
Your ﬁscal ﬁtness program.

'l‘lAA~CR1il: l> the rxutionix largest retirement
>_v,'stmn. mamagim_; over’ $1.50 billion in assets lor more
than lf million p-mplt». We tiller .1 wirlr range of
SRA allxxution clmittvs. longvtrrm in\-‘esrim-.'nI ('.\pt:r‘~
list‘, and r'enmr'k.cl2l_v lmv (“<p(‘n'<4’$.

Call l 800 842-2776 lbran SKA limiollrm-nl
Kit or not inrnr.1rtiv.- SKA linrolltrierll Sulitwarv.
Or visit us on the lltterrwl at goplwr://tin-crel'.org,
or bttp:/lwww.tia|a-erulluqg.

..-t :t.... mu, «t_>»--u.vI_»-
: r... ﬂ_,!IUl;I¢\:IqIl
 ..i.-.~.. ...t.~.v:»zz:i .... =..»...~.

.u,-w.- n;./. : 

enough, Mock Con also invites
you to enjoy the sounds of the
Nathan Shephard Band and the
Screamin’ Cheetah Wheelies in
the Student Activities Pavilion.
Doors open at 8:30 p.m. and
students will be admitted free
upon presentation of their con-
vention admission passes. With-
out the pass, a ticket will cost $5.
General admission is $8. A beer
garden will be available for those
of legal drinking age. Enjoy!

..-e.. I

Debates

Page 6

Pound One:

Keith
Benedict

Pro

“If the
promised
benefits were
recieved, they
would

still amount
to a low

one percent
or less real
return on the

taxes paid.”

In a recent poll, more young Americans said they be-
lieved in UFO’s than said they believed they will recieve
their Social Security beneﬁts. The government says that the
Social Security Trust Fund will be broke in 2030. Some
would say that leaves plenty of time to fix the problem.
However, that attitude is indicative of the arrogance with
which the Washington politicians have approached this
problem.

The federal government has misused the Social Security
Trust Fund to hide the extent of the budget deﬁcits it has
approved year after year. When cash and other securities are
taken out of the Trust Fund, the government has been
putting in Treasury Bonds. The problem is going to occur
when those obligations become due.

The government really has only three options to con-
tinue paying out beneﬁts: 1) run larger deﬁcits, 2) increase
taxes, or 3) cutting spending in other areas. The problem is
not only in the way the system has been managed, but in the
financial policy behind the system’s inception.

Even if a good solution is found to meeting the needs of
the current Social Security in the future, the system is a raw
deal for young workers. If the promised beneﬁts were
received, they would still amount to a low one percent or
less real return on the taxes paid.

Quite simply, the present social security is a pyramid
scheme and a bad joke on the younger generations. If the
people who thought of the social security system were
private individuals instead of government ofﬁcials, they
would go to jail.

The answer to the problem is privatization. A “private”
social security system would still have government regula-
tion establishing required percentages of government secu- _,
rities and private securities. Each person would have an *5‘
account similar to the current individual retirement account
(IRA) used in the private sector.

Similar to a minimum wage, workers would have to
meet a certain level of expected annual retirement beneﬁts
under strict controls with low risk securities. Once above
that minimum, workers could invest in securities likely to
return a higher rate. Workers would pay the social security
tax into these personal accounts, which truly would be the
personal property of the individual.

This means the individual worker would have incentive
to choose wisely a fund manager and an acceptable level of
risk. Government requirements would give assurance that

minimal levels of ﬁnancial security are present in the
managed funds. A safety net would still need to be in place
to provide beneﬁts for those who are disabled or otherwise
unable to meet the minimum, but the ﬁnancial resources
necessary to have this net in place would be tremendously
smaller.

A similar system is in place in Chile. There, the govem-
ment has set up certiﬁcation qualiﬁcations for fund manag-
ers. Workers may choose funds based on performance, and
they cand decide how much resk they are willing to under-
take. The government requirements that workers pay in 10
percent of their earnings to the system.

The privatization became necessary in Chile in 1981.
Chile has had a social security system since 1926, longer
than the United States. Chile began having the same diff-
culties the U.S. is now having in meeting future obligations,
and Chile determined privatization was the best way to
solve the problem.

Social Security is a well intended program. The realities
of life, however, have doomed such a system to failure from
the inception. If we are interested in a society that will make
real provision for the retirement of its citizens, we need to
look at privatization now. With every passing day, this
society is making the transition to reality in retirement
beneﬁts more onerous. Further delay means further bor-
rowing on the collateral of our progeny.

(The general source for this article was the Testimony of
Michael Tanner, Cato Institute, before the Senate Finance
Subcommittee of Social Security and Family Policy, pub-
lished August 2, 1995 in the  ).

Marcus
Rayner
and
Tiffany
Gagliardi

“Social security

provides the

soul sourc e

of retirement

income for

almost

C.-“axe Qiwg c7uw\ (DRE.

rand. le aper
G ‘ O P

1/5 of
a

the

population.”

The Republican Party, believing that we must take action
to thwart the coming crisis over Social Security, resolves that
Social Security be immediately privatized.

’ an.’

Delgate from the 1992 Mock Convention attending sessions.

Social security reform is a topic that will not disappear
from American politics anytime soon, but it is necessary
that any change be implemented thoughtfully and deliber-
ately. Any effort to ﬁnd a “quick-ﬁx” will most likely result
in a failure of the program to continue to provide current
levels of beneﬁts to millions of tax-paying Americans.

Social security today provides the sole source of retire-
ment income for almost one-ﬁfth of the American popula-
tion. The Social Security Administration affects over 70%
of the elderly in the nation, and comprises nearly one-fifth
of the United States’ budget. Despite its ﬂaws, the program
has provided a major source of retirement income in the
United States for over 60 years. A program of this magni-
tude, affecting such a large number of people, indeed needs
careful examination before any major changes can be
implemented. While it is clear that reforms are necessary in
the future, alterations should only be made to the system
after careful deliberation. The 1996 Mock Republican
Platform offers a responsible basis from which to begin
reforms of the current social security system.

Those with the crisis mentality, who advocate immedi-
ate and fundamental reform, overlook the disastrous possi-
bilities should these changes fail. The Social Security
Rescue Act of 1983 is an example of such shon-sighted
refonn. By passing social security costs on to younger
generations, the reformers guaranteed the program ’s failure
as the baby-boom generation reached retirement age. In a
similar way, a quick move to a fully privatized system today
could leave lower-income Americans with inadequate fund-
ing. ln these two cases, social security’s two original goals
(maintaining progressivity and providing for individual
equity), are sacriﬁced for more immediate solutions. With
so many people reliant on social security for their future, are
the risks worth a fast solution? Americans’ defense of the
current system indicates their continuing desire for these
two goals to be met, and it is the obligation of the govem-
ment to ensure that they are.

Americans must look upon these next 20 to 40 years as
a critical turning point in which thoughtful and responsible
ways to maintain the current quality of beneﬁts should be
examined. The social security system will begin running a
deﬁcit in the year 2013, but it is important to note that the
trust fund is expected to cover this debt well into the 20305.
Reform is necessary, but there is time to make it work.
While some may argue that this is a zero-sum game with one
generation beneﬁting at another’s expense, this need not be
the case. It is, in fact, an opportunity to extend the American
dream to our children and our children’s children.

This is a time in history when America needs to make
some difﬁcult decisions. The balanced budget, the size of
government, and social security are three dramatic ex-
amples. Reforms can be quick and easy or responsible and
sometimes painful. It is only through thoughtful analysis
and long-terrn thinking that Americans can create a system
that will maintain the current level of beneﬁts while stand-
ing the test of time.

Debates

Pound Two:

There is little doubt that the current welfare system has
Jesse gone from a well-meaning program designed to sustain
Taylor people who are unable to work and provide for their
d children to a bureaucratic monster in which some $32.4

an billion is spent each year to provide for a system which
Amy almost encourages the problems it is supposed to resolve.
Gorham Considering the slowing economy and the lack of job

Con

“Our welfare
system must
encourage
work by giving
the unemployed
the necessary
education and
training they
so desperately
need to hold

only a job.”

security present today, reform is, indeed, a good idea.
During this time of reelection coupled with the concern for
balancing our federal budget, the welfare program has
become a favorite target for cuts. Though balancing the
federal budget is and should be on the tope of the national
agenda regardless of one’s political party, a balanced bud-
get should not take priority over the welfare of our people.

The first step for any welfare reform program must be
actually putting welfare recipients to work. Our welfare
system must encourage work by giving the unemployed the
necessary education and training they so desperately need
to hold a job. Said Mary Jo Bane, Assistant Secretary for
Children and Families, welfare refonn must give people
back the dignity and control that comes from work and
independence. The Family Support Act passed in 1988 set
up a program called JOBS (Job Opportunities and Basic
Skills). As of today, however, only 23 percent of welfare
recipients without a child under age three are actually
participating in this program. This ﬁgure is alarmingly low
and should serve as a wake-up call for how desperate our
current welfare system is in need of improvement. One
approach to training welfare recipients is through the use of
positive and negative incentive’programs. We must gi

ve recipients a time limit from which to ﬁnd jobs after
which their welfare support would be diminished or termi-
nated based upon the effort extended by the recipient and
the availability of jobs in the recipient’s area. An effective
system of welfare refonn must encourage personal respon-
sibility - a characteristic which our current system appears
to ignore altogether.

Though the concept of welfare through vocational train-
ing is difficult to dispute, it does have some inherent flaws.
First, because our economy is in a stage of slow growth,
there are simply not enough jobs for many educated Ameri-
cans, not to mention welfare recipients with minimal voca-
tional skills. If the private sector cannot provide jobs for
such individuals, then the public sector must pick up the
slack in order to see an effective welfare reform. Secondly,
once welfare recipients, an overwhelming majority ofwhich-
are single mothers, actually do gain employment, their
entry-level positions will still leave them short of the
fonnidable expenses associated with medical and child
care. In this case, it would be foolish to abolish welfare
altogether, as some very conservative thinkers advocate,
because we would actually be punishing recipients for
going out and ﬁnding work. A moderate welfare refomi
would provide for vocational education programs as well as
to subsidize health and child care costs, beneﬁts that are not
normally associated with entry-level positions. Abolishing
welfare altogether would continue to provoke poverty-
stricken Americans to resort to crime and the black market,
while moderate reforms would give lower class Americans
a work ethic in which personal responsibility is rewarded.

Four years ago, the American people voted to give a
Democrat the chance to make signiﬁcant inroads in the ever
eroding welfare system; he has failed. It is time to replace
Bill Clinton a Republican candidate who speaks for the
millions of Americans who want to see a welfare system
which ethic and personal responsibility in which children of
poverty-stricken families are not punished for the condi-
tions under which they were born and leaves their parent(s)
little incentive to work their way out of it.

DANCE CLASS

for FD

The Republican Party, believing that welfare should be a
transitional rather than a subsistence program, resolves that
welfare benefits be terminated after one year.

Megan
Fernstrum

F0

“The number of

welfare

recipients is

growing daily

with no

end in

sight, and

the majority

of the

children of

welfare

recipients

Welfare is the general term used to label the overall
package of government need-based beneﬁt programs. These
programs are designed to assist the section of the American
population which for reasons such as disability, unemploy-
ment, age, and child dependency are unable to subsist above
the poverty level.

Welfare assistance, given primarily in the form of mon-
etary support, food stamps, and health beneﬁts, was origi-
nally designed to be a temporary beneﬁt program. The goal
of the temporary assistance plan was to remove the pressure
on recipients to meet daily basic needs thereby allowing
them to focus their efforts on becoming economically self-
sufﬁcient. Sadly, the welfare program in the United States
has fallen short of this admirable goal.

Today’s welfare programs bear no resemblance to their
originally intended prototypes. Rather than temporary as-
sistance programs aimed at self-sufficiency, these pro-
grams have become self-perpetuating doles. Welfare has
become a means of subsistence for millions of Americans,
the vast majority of which could and should be productive
members of society.

Worse yet, the number of welfare recipients, most of
whom are able-bodied, is growing daily with no end in
sight. This trend is even more frightening when one consid-
ers the fact that the majority of children of welfare recipi-
ents become recipients themselves as adults. As the number
of beneﬁciaries has risen, the cost ofthe program’s admin-
istration has soared, creating an ever increasing financial
burden on the productive section of society.

The welfare program in the United States has clearly
failed. Rather than helping the less fortunate to reach the
American dream, welfare has created a culture of depen-
dency which stands in direct opposition to the free market
spirit upon which our country was founded.

It is for this reason that the welfare system must undergo
refonn. Welfare must become what it was originally in-
tended to be - a temporary assistance program designed to
help able-bodied Americans become economically self-

sufﬁcient.
To be effective, welfare reform must address the adverse

incentive structure of the current program, the root cause of
dependency. The incentive structure of the current program
actually encourages people not to seek employment.

The benefit package provides a disposable income only
slightly lower than the income earned when working a full
time job which pays $5/hour. In addition, there is no cap on
the beneﬁt period. Recipients can remain on welfare for
years at a time while essentially receivinga minimum wage
salary. What incentive is there to pursue employment when
you can receive the same amount of income without work-
ing? The answer is none.

Even more amazing is the fact that the current welfare
program actually provides incentives for illegitimacy and
the break down of the nuclear family. Under the current
beneﬁt program, women are rewarded for each additional
dependent child they have. In essence, the welfare system
encourages women to bring children into the world which
they are ﬁnancially unable to care for.

Worse yet is the fact that in order for these children to be
considered dependent under the program ’s guidelines, they
may not have an identiﬁable father who is capable of
supporting them.

The result is a soaring rate of illegitimacy and a genera-
tion of welfare children either do not know or have very
little contact with their fathers. The incentives for nuclear
family breakdown are further increased by the fact that
recipients who marry spouses who are employed full-time
lose their beneﬁts regardless of whether the spouse’s in-

Get ready for Fancy Dress
Register at first lesson on
Monday, March 4, at 6, 7, 8, or 9 pm.
Come with or without a partner.
$30 for six hours of instruction
Monday and Tuesdays March 4
through March 18
Classes in Fairfax Lounge

become come is sufﬁcient to support the family.

Welfare reform must eliminate the adverse incentive
structure of the current program and replace it with incen-
tives which encourage self-sufﬁciency.

This goal can be accomplished in one simple step: for all
able-bodied participants, the current beneﬁt period will be
limited to one year with no possibility for beneﬁt extension
or repetitive use. This simple refonn eliminates the possi-
bility of dependency by forcing people to become self-
sufﬁcient within one year‘s time, a period sufﬁciently long
to complete the training necessary and to ﬁnd employment.
Furthermore, a one year beneﬁt period eliminates the con-
cerns associated with increased beneﬁts for additional
dependent children.

A one year cap on benefits will make welfare what it was
designed to be-a temporary assistance package which fos-
ters self-sufﬁciency. A beneﬁt period cap should therefore

recipients

themselves

as adults.”

Advertisements

GOOD
WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail for
national company! Free
su plies. postage! No
se ling! Bonuses! Stan
immediate! l Genuine
opportunity! shS.A.S.
GI-[Co SUITE 216
1861 ILPEDERAL
OLLYHOOD.FI. 3302

A Bistro

8 am — 3 pm - Monday
8 am — 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm — Friday — Saturday
9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

-1*

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
All you can eat $4.99

Thursday - 10% off food — with student ID

Friday — Seafood Nite —
Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,
2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

Everyday Muffin & Cup of Coffee $1.50
-V: ?f ‘ j (8iam -.-:10 am)  p
Daily Lunch Special‘ with Drink $4.50

19 w. Washin ton St., Lexington, VA 24450

SUMMER JOBS AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE

Counselors for Summer Scholars
July 3 — August 3, 1996

Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school
students in Graliam—Lees dormitory and plan evening and weekend
activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline is February
28= 1996- . _ . Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Special Programs Resident Assistants _

June 12 - August 3, 1995 Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

The Office of Special Programs employs four W&L students to serve as The Buffet is Served from 8:00 a_m_ until 1:30 p.m_
hosts/hostesses for a wide variety ofspecial Programs including Alumni

Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities We,ll be waiting for you’
management and housekeeping, receptions, and transportation. Appli-

cation Deadline is March 15, 1996. Berky’s
For further information, please contact the Office of Special R t 11 N th _ Le ~ t VA
Programs, Howard House, 463-8723. 0“ e or xm on

WANTED NOW

voun RENTAL FOR
FANCY DRESS

SPECIAL PRICES

EARLY BIRD SPECIAL

ORDER BEFORE
MARCH 1 3th
ONLY $45.00

AFTER THE 1 3th

Basic Black Tux $48.00 Black Tails $52.00
Shoes $9.00 with Tux Rental
Buy a Tux fol‘ $265.00

The college Town Shop 1 1 1 West Nelson Street

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
(800) 95—BREAK!

Advertisements . page 9

DO VOL! Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards? . 2 Bedroom Student

Nowyau an have two ofthe most recognized and apartment for rent

accepted cruIt¢_nnh In {In wn_r|d..VIu0 Ind Humfhrdﬁ above Alvin _Denn‘lS
ur.-dItar¢h.. lnynurmme. BVENEFYOUARBNEWIN _

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN  DOWN’ BEOREI Avallable June 

463-5383

EME@EFCY (391-TCKE'l8»-RESTAURANT$—
H(Tl‘ELS——MOTEL,S-——G§3—C,A,R RENl‘A[5— Counselors for residential
ni:wurts—mn-mawwvouuciu-znrr rumnol 5‘."“"‘e‘ Pr°9ra'“ at “VA f°‘
glfted students 6/17-8/3.

State VA appl' ation
ﬂu tﬂr. dqgnsl requir -refer to J Cat-

llo credit checks! 33?,’ Y°_rf‘. Q18’?/r1e_t“§{,'pf;
‘II security deposit! to UVA Dept. f B an Re-
sources 914 Emmet t., POB
55]]; 1}“; cgupa. "may 9007, éharlottesville VA

You“ CREMT cmns “"5 '5 ' 7 ""3! <2::ig6éo4 /923:3 1i8n2f.ormati°n

$Attention All StudenIs$
REE M0 is currently available for College Students Nationwide. Over $6 Billion iin aid
ai le from private sectrio grants & scholarships. All students are eligible to - - -   -235‘. - - - - - - -
I eceive some sort of aid, rdless of grades, income, or parents’s income. Let us help you.
0, mm mfommon, ca . 1 50] B - HALLAJIDLLE BCH BLVD
Student Financial Service: HALLHHDALB 4 FLOR I3 3 3009
.'I.I . 0" I v

hvuntVlSAOIlilAS'I‘l!RCARDOCredIt
cudanpproved Immedtntey. 100% OUAIIANTESDI
FEME
ADDRESS
CITY __.___._..._.._ STATE __.ZIP
STUDENT? Yes No 553

SIGNATURE

urrmuuuaoniiu-=1 ‘ ‘ ‘av ‘E-11'“ ‘ ‘it
Vllouangisumln-ad:-m1idVtsn|1s.n..tnr.uidVI5Ahnt«nIomi

1 MIN. THIS MD RISK COUPON YODIV

TEACH ENGUSH IN KOKE/\« Poaitiono available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. U5 $l8,500~25,400/yr. Accorriodation & rouridtrip
airfare provided. Send reeume, copy of diploma and copy of paeeport to:
50k Ji Coprporatiori, Chum Bang Bldg, 15445 Sarrisurig Dong, Karig Nam Gu,
Seoul, Korea l55«O90.

TEL: Ol1~82»2—555—JOB8(5627) FAX: Oll—&2—2/552A4FAX(/+529)

Please consider me as a
candidate suitable and
fine for Vice President of
the Executive Committee.
1, Alex Christensen, beg
you to consider me. I am
willing to work hard and
. . . . would make an nt:
Lexington, Virginia 24450 vice presidentexgfrllaeny
Near the Home Center executive or unexecutive

Executive Committee.
Phone 464-9499 Gentlemen, please consider

me. Ladies, consider me.
~ Thank you. Thank you,
Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to? thank you- .

Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:30 p.m. A   F
E. C. VICE PRESIDENT

 

WINTER SALE

50% off all Fall and
Winter Fashions
Sale continues plus lots of new Spring things

oppotqo9.Qo'

Applications from members of the
class of 1996 who wish to be consid-
ered fot he Alumni Office Staff As-

sociate position for the 1996-1997
academic year are due by Monday,
March II, 1996. Graduating seniors
should submit a letter of application
and resume to Alumni Secretary Tim
Farrar at the Alumni House. The
Staff Assoicate position is currently _
held by Tuskin King, '95, and be- 23 N- Mal" Street
Comes available Tuly L 1996. per .Hours.°Monday-Saturday10:00—5.°30 /

sonal interviews will be schedule   %

upon receipt of applications.

 §

The

  “ Blue
Ridge
Valley

 Oracle

1908 WILLIAM JENNINGS
BRYAN

1912 Judson Harmon
(WOODROW WILSON)

Time on the phone is time well spent. State Chairs and delegates scramble to collect last 1916 CHARLES EVANS
minute information that will help predict the correct Republican Presidential nominees. HUGHES

1922 N0 Mock Convention
held.

1924 JOHN W. DAVIS
1928 ALFRED E. SMITH
1932 FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT

1936 Arthur Vandenburg
(ALF LANDON)

5 I 1940 Charles McNary
  " <WENDEI.»LwILKIE>

13:31.7. 80gt4  ,1  ‘ _ 1944 No Mock Convention

' held
HAVE A SAFE AND EBIICIYAIILE ED.  ~ ~ '
. 1948 Arthur Vandenburg

_ (THOMAS DEWEY)
V 9 1952, DWIGHT D.
 1 EISENHOWER
U  M D N 1956 ADLAI STEVENSON

1960 JOHN F. KENNEDY

AT HOME!  

. 'G0LD3zvATER , ; A ,
1972 - Edward Kennedjf V A
(GEORGE McGOVERN) I 4
11976 JIMMY CARTER 9“
1930 RONALD REAGAN
1984 WALTER MONDALE
1988 MICHAEL DUKAKIS
I 1992 BILL CLINTON

’ NO EXPERIENCE
NECESSARY!

SIR DETAILS: RUSH LONG 5.455
NOW! ANC

SUITE 216
1861 N-FEDERAL IIIIY

CAPITAL LE TFERS DENOT E PRESI~
DENT [AL NOMINEES CHOSEN BY
BOTH W&L AND THE NATIONAL
PARTY; lower case letters represent
those candidates selected by W&L but
not by the party (the nominees of which
Q:-in-:2-O “"‘”d‘°“‘“"‘"”“’““”"”?"’

huh--nun-Ii.

The Mock Convention office, located in the University center.
Many hours are spent here in preparation for the big event.

if
E
E
5
E
4, ,

, -V» A‘  « -V , " A . ,.  W 4
Students gather to help build the ﬂoats that will represent each
individual state. Awards are given to the outstanding ﬂoats, after
the parade Friday morning. The parade kicks off Mock Convention
weekend. There is also a band a‘t‘the pavilion Friday evening.

mnowans SYORES ”

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

MC- Collage

J

This boat won't ﬂoat, but it is sure to make waves duringithe

parade. Media from all over the United States will attend.

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'

Your Student
G0 Hungry

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for
_ Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner

For only $90.00

Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

footnotes 

Floats Past and Y

 Print 
The Making of a  
Major Madia Event  

Emily Baleer
Phi Executive Editor

o Come...
K  S S

~v

What began as a project for a political science class has become one of
the most highly regarded mock conventions in the country.

In 1908, only the News-Gazette covered the convention.

The media woke up in 1924, however, when W&L surprised the nation
by correctly nominating John W. Davis who was not a registered candi-
date.

"This was one of the key years that got people’s attention,”said Media
Chair Jeff Zeiger. r

Mock Convention drew national attention in 1956 when Kentucky
Senator Alben Barkley died after delivering the keynote address.

"That was the year people really sat up and took notice of it. After
Barkley’s death, people started paying attention,” saidlason Callen, one of
the editors of the Mock Convention Journal.

If these anomalies drew the attention of the nation, Mock Con’s
accuracy record has held it. Committee heads and delegates monitor the

' political pulse of each state, even to the last mjnute.VThe painstaking
research process has ensured an impressive track record - W&L has been
Wyvrongionly once since 1958. . .  V‘  _  . ,

The convention that started out attracting only a small-town newspaper \
now draws CNN, C-Sgian, and CBS. ‘ , t y B

This year’s eonventic has received even more attention due to its home \
page, rated in the tops percent of ail home pages on the Worid Wide Web.

“We the one waywe have of reaching people all across the nation,”
Callen said. S . . S B N ‘

“Four years ago, people would never have dreamed that we would have
anything like the ltomeipage. 1 can’t imagine what it will be like in another
four years.” . ‘ - .  , ~

Top and upper left pictures
Phi staff photos. Bottom left
and right photos courtesy of
the Calyx.

And our record thus far... 1995
Mock Con

\
Q.."'£&DO¢‘D"!OGCI1

State: Our call: Voters call:

Alaska Gramm Buchanan
Louisiana Buchanan Buchanan
Iowa Dole Dole

New Hampshire Dole Buchanan
Delaware Dole Forbes
Arizona Buchanan Forbes
North Dakota Dole Dole
South Dakota Dole Dole

coming up on Saturday, March 2: South Carolina

7

