 
 

-23: 'a;:_.:—«...r

" .1.

wAa«n~i-an-cs. arm . ,0

Lenmwcm, am. 

 P  E3? 1995

 

ET
:1

 

95

it VOLUME 95’, N0. 3

going where no woman

Vollegboll prevails

fitlgﬂgng gefore 6 at W&L lnvitotionola

U11 ilting-tum Iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 22, 1995

EC questions Pub
Board reserve fund

Study circle

Photo by Betsy Green, i Photo Editr

outside of Lee Chapel.

As the first day of the fall rapidly approaches, students take advantage of the weather

and the scenery studying

Tailgating moved to lacrosse field

By MlCliAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

At tomorrow’s first Washington and
Lee football game, the time-honored
tradition of tailgating, or a party out of
a truck, will be held inside the fenced
Lacrosse practice ﬁeld which is beside
the freshmen parking lot.

Director of Security Mike Young
announced the new policy during
Wednesday night’s Interfraternity
Council meeting.

“Saturdays have become another
reason to have a big party,” Young
said, “and we can’t have that.”

IFC president Ryan Connolly said

reservations.

“l just won’t be as much of an expe-
rience as it used to be,” he said. “It used
to be an all day Foxfield-like event.”

The university is concerned with
any liability it might incur if an acci-
dent happened that caused injury to a
student or damaged the school’s prop-
erty, he said.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy Atkins agreed.

“The real issue is that we cannot
afford to have a three hour party with
people drinking,” he said. “We have a
responsibility to this university to pro-
tect it. We have no choice.”

Young said W&L Security will start
shutting down the tailgating parties at

Barbecue in Buena Vista will provide
food for the parties. He asked the
fraternities who are having tailgating
parties tomorrow to please cooperate.
He said’ he hopes the policy will work
out.

These parties need to come under
control, Young said. W&L Security
has received reports from people com-
plaining about property damage.

“We’re not trying to keep you from
having a good time,” he said.

Atkins said he wants to keep the
school from being liable for anything.

‘‘I’m not anxious to have money
coming out of our endowment because
we let students do something that is not
healthy.”

“I think people will cooperate,” he
said, “and hopefully, more people will
watch the Generals destroy their feeble
opponents.”

In other [FC news, Kappa Alpha
fraternity will not have abig Tear Night
party tomorrow.

KA received a $1500 ﬁne and one
week of social probation from the IFC
for a rush violation.

The fraternity was charged with
having freshmen males at their frater-
nity house during closed contact last
week.

KA president .l. Harrison Morrison
refused to comment on the IFC’s deci-
sion but did say the social probation,
which started Wednesday, will seri-

By DAN ODLNWALD
I'll; Executive Editor

The Executive Committee and the
Publications Board called a last minute
meeting to talk about a $10,300 surplus
in the Board’s reserve fund.

Concerned over the unusually large
amount in the fund, the EC requested
that Darcey Livingston, Acting Pub
Board President, meet with the com-
mittee to discuss the surplus.

The Pub Board consists of the edi-
tors-in-chief and business managers of
The Ring-tum Phi, The Calyx, the Po-
litical Review, the Ariel, and the Jour-
nal of Science. A sixth campus jour-
nal, the Arete, was added Wednesday
night during the Board’s first meeting
of the academic year.

The mission of the Board is to act as
sole publisher for all the publications
and to appoint all editors. A
minimum of $3,000 is kept in a reserve
fund to absorb possible end-of-year
debts or unanticipated expenses of the
publications.

The surplus resulted from money
raised last year by The Calyx. The
yearbook ended the year with $8,000
more than anticipated. Increased rev-

' enues from student picture fees, the

patron drive, and advertising accounted
for $7,500. The Calyx also cut ex-
penses by several hundred dollars.

In early September, the E.C. exam-
ined the ﬁnancial records of the Pub
Board in preparation for the budget
hearings. They immediately noticed

that the Pub Board had substantial
funds, yet campus publications under
the Pub Board did not reﬂect that sur-
plus with lowered budget requests.

Hence the question arose: How is
that money being spent?

“There was a concern on the part of
the EC over what all that money was
doing there,” said Pub Board advisor
Brian Richardson.

Keith Benedict, EC President, was
concerned that the Pub Board might
squander the student activity fees.

“We don't want to see the money go
down a black hole,” said Benedict.

Additionally, he demanded more
accountability for how the money will
be spent.

Livingston reminded the EC that it
could send a non-voting member to
Pub Board meetings to see ﬁrst-hand
how surplus funds were being allo-
cated. .'.she also denied concerns that
the funus would be mismanaged.

“All surplus funds go directly back
into the publications. For example, we
[The Calyx] want that money to buy
new computers,” said Livingston.

EC member Amy Gorham
suggested that the Pub Board provide
a detailed account of how
the reserve funds are spent to avoid
further confusion.

Benedict added that he wants to see
the surplus spent on campus publica-
tions, but he advised Livingston to
purchase only what is necessary.

“We’re comfortable with
what you’re doing, we just want
to account for student money,”
concluded Benedict.

Freshmen women
meet leaders and
voice opinions

“Now

freshmen ship positions but also

the

fraternities will cooperate with
the policy. However, he did have some

1230 p.m. Buildings and Grounds will
provide tables and chairs, and Todd’s

Connolly said there might some
good to come out of the new policy.

ously affect plans for Saturday’s Tear
Night.

West-Settle joins administration

By RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

 

Cecile West-Settle has been
appointed Associate Dean of
the College. The former Asso-
ciate Dean, W. Lad Sessions,
is currently serving as Dean of
the College to fill the void left

by the ascent of John W. Elrod
to President.

West-Settle, a Romance
Languages professor, began
work under her new title on
July 1 and will remain for
the next three years, as Associ-
ate Dean of the College is a
rotating position among
the faculty.

Although West-Settle has
been exposed to the workings

ofthe university by serving on
various committees, her new
job itinerary holds a much
broader list of activities, which
includes matters concerning
the automatic rule and read-
mission, chairing a committee
comprised of eight faculty
members dealing with Gradu-
ate Fellowships, and work on
Release Scholarships which
enable students to work with

faculty members during the‘

summer. in addition, she has
also assisted Dean of Fresh-
men and Residence Life Den-
nis G. Manning with
resolving schedule conflicts
and advising.

West-Settle enjoys being
more ingrained in the work-
ings of the administrative as-
pect of the university and she
maintains she still has a good

deal of contact with students.
She is teaching one Spanish
course in each of the Fall and
Winter Terms, which provides
a welcome change in her day.
With her job still rela-
tively new, West-Settle is un-
clear as to whether a career in
administration might be ap-
pealing to her, but she appears
enthusiastic about her role
within the university.

More checkpoints keep Security busy

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

codes. The bar codes can be placed just about anywhere. Previously, the ofﬁcers

had to lug around a 14 pound clock that was advanced with keys placed around
campus. The new device weighs less than a pound and is carried in a pouch worn
on the officer’s belt.

Washington and Lee Security ofﬁcers seem to be patrolling a lot of new areas

this year, including individual fraternity houses.

Mike Young, Director of Security, said the increased presence of ofﬁcers is
due to a new check point system. The Deister System, a computer driven
checkpoint system, enabled W&L Security to increase the number of areas
checked on each patrol from 30 to 200. Security officers currently check 62

points on campus.

Young said some of these points include the fraternity houses. He stressed
that the officers are not trying to spy on students or catch fraternities breaking the
rules. The checkpoints were placed in each house because the school owns them
and is interested in keeping them in good condition. Young also pointed out that
the checkpoints are placed in areas in the house where Buildings and Grounds

frequently inspects for maintenance reasons.

This does not mean ofﬁcers will ignore activities in the house.
‘‘If something draws [the ofﬁcers’] attention, they’ll check it out,”

Young said.

The system operates on bar codes and a wand-like device that reads the bar

Young said that the new system allowed a better accounting of what was

checked and when it was inspected. He said after each shift, the scanning device

is down-loaded onto a computer where the reports are stored. The reports for any

patrol can be called up almost instantly. Each report shows the officer on patrol,

the areas check, and what time they were checked.

ln addition to better accounting, the new system allows Security to respond to
problem areas. Young said because of increasing thefts on the lower levels of the
law school library, a new check point was added. The checkpoint insures that

areas where problems have occurred will be patroled. Another checkpoint was

added on the lower levels of Leyburn Library after unwanted sexual advances
were made towards several students last year.

Officer Scott Rowe said he likes the new system more than the old one. He
said the old system encouraged officers to hurry because the clock was so heavy
and awkward.

Every checkpoint is supposed to be checked twice a shift, according to Rowe.

the money.

Young said the computer read-out of the patrols provides an opportunity to check
the quality of work of the officers.
Young said the system cost $2800 to purchase and install, but is worth

By SARA MCCRONE
Phi Staff Writer

On a typical week-
night during Rush, the
freshmen men put ontheir
khaki pants and navy blue
jackets and head out to
catch aride to fraternity
houses while their
dormmates a few ﬂoors
upsettle down to watch
TV or do some home-
work. But last night was
different for the fresh-
men women, who found
that although they didn't
have to get dressed up,
they did have some place
to go.

About one hundred
freshmen women ﬁlled
the rain site in the Uni-
versity Center to near-
capacity. Student lead-
ers of the event’s spon-
sors, Panhellenic,
Women’s Forum, and
Women and Leadership,
were pleased by the turn-
out and took the oppor-
tunity to welcome the
freshmen to W&L and to
invite them to participate
in women’s groups on
campus.

“We are glad that
freshman are voicing
their opinions from the
outset,” Sakina Paige,
ChairpersonofWomen’s
Forum, said. “Women’s
Forum addresses the con-
cerns of all women on
campus, and by having
events like this,
Women’s Forum pro-
vides a place for them.”

Paige acknowledged
that the social was also
planned for a time in
which freshmen women
may have been feeling
left out because of the
prevalence of Rush func-
tions for the men.

women can also feel like
they know upper-class
women on campus and
that they can walk up and
say hello,” she said.

“This activity, as well
as demonstrating that the
women’s groups are very
united, serves to help
form friendships among
freshmen and upper-
class women.”

The choral group Ju-
bilee, comprised of up-
per-class students and
two freshmen women,
kicked off the series of
events designed to gen-
eratecamaraderieamong
the students. As the all-
female group performed
excellent renditions of
Mamas and Papas songs
and Go-Go’s tunes,
women of all ages lis-
tened and snacked on
Creamsicles and Nutty
Buddies. After the per-
formance, a wide range
of female student lead-
ers, including SCC
Chairperson Madeline
White, Women and
beadership Chairperson
Karly Jennings, and
Panhellenic leader
Suzanne Sharpe, encour-
aged the freshmen
women to seek leader-
ship positions. “Just get
out there and do it,” EC
secretary Amy Gorham
advised. “Freshman year
is a good time to apply
for positions and seek
ofﬁce.” Gorham and the
sophomore and junior
class presidents advised

~ freshmen women to at-

tend a panel on seeking
leadership positions that
will be held in C-school
on October 3 at 4:00.
Jennings emphasized
that Women and Leader-
ship is not just for women
who already hold leader-

for those who want to
develop leadership skills
at W&L or out in the
work force.

“Sometimes groups
get too fractioned or di-
vided,” Jennings noted.
“This is one big group
for everyone; we have
members who are from
the Christian right to the
far left and everywhere
in between. That’s what
we're hoping for.”

PanhellenicChairper-
son Suzanne Sharpe
oommentedthatinvolve-
ment in sororities also
promotes leadership
skills.

“Being in a sorority is
conducivetobecominga
leader. Almost everyone
in a sorority holds sortie
l e a d e r s h i p
position,”Sharpe said.

The event seemed to
be a big hit among the
freshmen women, who
went to watch the season
premiere of Friends in
the Women's Center on
the third ﬂoor of Gaines
Hall, which Paige
stressed is open at any
time to any woman on
campus.

Especially pleased
with the activity were
those women who had
won prizes for speedily
answering such survey
questions as “What is the
only predominantly fe-
male department?”
(Arts) and “Which lan-
guage is taught by all fe-
male instructors?” (Rus-
sian).

“I think it's great be-
cause I won this T-shirt!”
freshman Keri Dunphy
exclaimed, proudly dis-
playing her prize which
read: “W&L Women:
Quality Doesn't Have to
Travel.”

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Popcorn mogul Orville
Redenbacher dies at age 80

Orville Redenbacher, the well-known creator of Orville Redenbacher
popcorn, was discovered dead in his bathtub on Tuesday. Police investi-
gators report that the eighty-year-old public figure died of natural causes.
Fans of Redenbacher’s popcorn will be relieved to hear that his popcorn
empire will continue under the guidance of his family.

Welfare reform legislation
survives Senate scrutiny

Washington, D.C.—After months of revision, the Senate passed a
sweeping welfare reform bill Tuesday by a majority of 87 to 12. Reforms
passed in the Senate bill include a ﬁve-year limit on welfare beneﬁts, a
requirement that beneficiaries work while receiving welfare, a new system
of block grants to states. and denial of benefits to legal immigrants.

The bill will now come before a House and Senate conference commit-
tee which will discuss compromises between the current bill and one
passed by the House earlier this year. Debate will likely focus on such
issues as the “family cap,” which would deny or reduce benefits for women
who had more children while on welfare, or variations ofthe cap, including
increased grants to states which reduce illegitimate births.

Bosnian/Croatian forces to
end assault on Serb holdings

Bosnia~—Bosnian and Croatian forces agreed Tuesday to end their
massive offensive against Serb holdings in western and central Bosnia,
including Banja Luka, the town which is currently harboring 100,000
Serbian refugees. In the past week, their combined efforts have gained
more territory for the Bosnian government than they have held since the
beginning of the war with Bosnian Serbs over three years ago.

Officials halted the raid on Serbian strongholds in light of growing
concerns that the assault would jeopardize the continuing peace talks with
Serb forces and possibly incite military action. The war continues in other
regions of Bosnia despite pressure from NATO to end warfare in the former
Yugoslavia.

NFL facing identity crisis as
Jerry Jones’ case escalates

Atlanta, GA—.ln recent weeks the court battle over Jerry Jones‘ alleged
violations of NFL advertising procedures has been escalating. While the

Cowboys‘ owner and other members ofthe NFL remain optimistic that the -

conflict between Jones and NFL Properties will be resolved out of court,
many, including Commissioner Paul Tagliabue, insist that ifJones wins his
case the effects on the NFL will be disastrous.

The case, including a $300 million lawsuit ﬁled by NFL Properties
against Jones, raises several central issues, such as sponsorship of stadiums
and athletic products, competition with other leagues, and equal access to
players. Tagliabue is convinced that these issues will not be resolved by
the owners. Jones’ alleged violations of NFL procedure and the resolution
of the lawsuit against him will likely be the incentive for a close examina-
tion of the NFL’s business relationships, as well as its licensing policies.

GOP WATCH

 

Parties clash over Medicaid
and Medicare budget cuts

In recent weeks GOP activity foreshadowed the controversy over what
will undoubtedly be one of the most complex issues of the 1996 campaign.
Senate and House Republicans, as well as Republican governors, became
embroiled in the battle over Medicare and Medicaid as the scheduled
makeover of the national programs approaches.

Democrats promise that any of the planned Republican cuts and
changes (such as caps on doctors’ fees, incentives to join HMOs and
increased premiums) in funding will leave thousands of children, elderly
and disabled without the means to procure medical treatment or prescrip-
tion drugs.

Republicans are also registering mixed opinions about the reductions in
funding. While Republicans in Congress view the cuts as integral to their
budget plans, GOP governors insist that the cuts must be reasonable in
order for the states to withstand them. The Senate and House are also
arguing the issue of whether or not the Medicaid program should be turned
over to the states or should remain an entitlement. The issue promises to
ﬁgure signiﬁcantly not only in the Republican campaigns, but in the party
battles as well.

Proposed foreign aid cuts
to cause controversy

The GOP’s proposed foreign aid cuts became the subject of controversy
within the Republican Party last week. The cuts, which Democrats allege
will preclude international communication to the point of isolating and
endangering the United States, have also been criticized by Republican
Appropriation Committee Chairman Mark Hatﬁeld. While a proposed
House and Senate compromise bill would bring about less drastic cuts,
Hatfield remains concerned about the effects of the cuts on the State
Department and the United States Information Agency.

The budget cuts have received the support of Senator Phil Gramm,
Senator Robert Dole, and Senator Richard G. Lugar, all candidates for the
GOP nomination. However, the proposed cuts are a continued cause for
concern among those who had hoped for less stringent attacks from the
GOP leaders on foreign affairs budgets.

Beyond the Blue Ridge and GOP Watch are
compiled by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

The 'n - Ph° tember 22 1995

 

W&L leads its students to the
Information Superhighway

By ALEX CHRISTENSEN
Phi staff writer

“The Information Superhighway”—the high-tech
future of information in a global age, or just another
media—generated catch-phrase designed to make any-
body without an e-mail address feel hopelessly be-
hind the times? It is probably a bit of each. Students
at W&L can ﬁnd out for themselves through Liberty,
the University’s computer network, and related ser-
vices provided by Campus Computing.

W&L’s Internet access and other services are
certainly not the most technologically advanced in
any sense, but they do provide users with basic
connections and fairly comprehensive features to
enable them to communicate around the world, con-
duct research and share data, participate in conversa-
tions grandiose and trivial without borders and be-
come familiar with the cutting edge of multi-media
and programming. Certainly, most schools, and even
businesses, would be thrilled to wake up and ﬁnd that
they had been equipped with the computing capabili-
ties available to W&L’s students, faculty, and staff.

Of course, gaining access to all of these resources
is not as simple as turning on a computer, but W&L
Computing has made the process fairly straightfor-
ward. W&L students and others affiliated with the
University may purchase computers through pro-
grams run by Apple and Dell at Student Computer
Purchase in the computing center on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of
Tucker Hall. The programs allow the purchase of up
to one desktop computer, one notebook computer,
and one printer per year at substantial discounts (the
limits are designed to avoid competing with com-
puter retailers).

After a computer has been purchased, or brought
from home, students may purchase a packet consist-
ing of a disk and a cable which will connect their
computer to the campus system, Liberty, via phone
lines installed in all University housing. Students
living off—campus can connect to Liberty via their
own phone lines using a modem.

Most students are already familiar with e-mail. E-
mail allows users to send information to any other
computer user in the world with a valid e-mail
address. Letters, programs, images, etc., may be sent
via e-mail. Students frequently communicate through
e-mail with friends at other colleges, friends they
have made previously through online services such
as America OnLine or CompuServe, parents or other
family, or participate in mailing lists on certain
topics, ranging from the basics of computer use to
religious discussions to favorite television programs.

All students, whether they know it or not, have e-
mail addresses which can be accessed through Lib-
erty on personal computers or in any of the computer
labs on campus, or the library. Passwords and ac-
count names were sent to students over the summer
from the Telecommunications Ofﬁce.

Pub Board
to add new
publication

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The Publications Board voted
Wednesday to add a new publication to
the five already under its wing.

Bill Rust, editor of the Political
Review. requested that the Board in-
clude the Arete, an annualjournal now
in its first year.

TheA rete will complement the Ley-
burn Society’s Speaker Program,which
last year held discussions on local and
international issues ranging from Win-
ter Rush to Chechnya.

The journal will include student,
professor and guest essays, interviews,
student reactions and critiques.

The Pub Board agreed to fund 50
percent of the Arete’s first year operat-
ing budget, or $400.

“We thought thejournal would com-
plete what we’re trying to do with the
Leyburn Society,” said Billy Poynter,

W&L e-mail received an upgrade recently to
PINE 3.91, the program used to receive, sort, and
work with e-mail. The upgrade essentially does not
change the way the program works, but it does allow
USENET newsgroups to be accessed via PINE in-
stead of via TIN, the Liberty newsreader. Computer
services still recommends the use of TIN, however,
simply because the two are fairly similar and students
are likely more familiar with TIN.

Annie. named for Annie White, longtime W&L
librarian and founder of Fancy Dress, is the
University’s catalog system. It can be accessed via
Liberty in private rooms and also at locations through-
out campus. Students can leave comments about the
library and request new materials in addition to
searching for books, periodicals and other research
sources. Using Annie before heading to the library
allows students to cut down on time spent searching
in the stacks and spend more time on actual study and
research.

Liberty is the name of the computer’s interface
system. Included in Liberty, in addition to e-mail
capabilities and connections to Annie, are several
other features that allow W&L students to ﬁnd and
use information effectively. Some are used primarily
for non—curricular activities, while some are used
almost exclusively for serious research.

The USENET is an international system of
“newsgroups,” groups broken up by the subjects
discussed within each. Topics range widely from
cars to coffee to Conan O’Brien to foreign languages
to politics, and on and on. Virtually every topic is
represented, and if it is not currently, a sufﬁcient
show of interest is enough to make sure it is. In
addition to groups available to anyone in the world,
W&L’s USENET service includes W&L-speciﬁc
topics such as computing, Christians on campus, and
individual class groups where students and profes-
sors can discuss and organize their classes. Much of
the USENET, many students have found, must be
slogged through to get past the ﬂames (vitriolically
abusive “discussion”), trolls (attempting to provoke
ﬂames), ads (a severe violation of Internet etiquette),
and just plain useless discussion to find the interest-
ing or informative bits that can lead to discussion or
present unfiltered news and opinions from around
the world.

The IRC (Internet Relay Chat) is sort oflike a live
USENET. Users can talk live to people around the
world, again on topics as various as the people who
participate. While some may abandon the IRC as a
hotbed of horny undergraduates pretending to be
things they are not, cybersex is not the only option.
Discussions of religion, pop culture, and even live
“game show”—type groups are also popular.

The World Wide Web is what many people mean
when they talk about the Internet or the Information
Superhighway; though it is only a part of the total
picture, it is a quickly expanding part growing in
usage and popularity. WWW is a multi-media format
allowing users to see pictures. read text, and hear
sounds all in one integrated “document.”The WWW’s

editor of the Arete (the Athenian word
for excellence).

The Leyburn Society is named after
Dr. James G. Leyburn who said in his
1979 address at the Omicron Delta
Kappa assembly that “many Washing-
ton and Lee students so soon begin to
specialize that they miss the riches of

this University’s superb curriculum.”
The Leyburn Society attempts to
provide students with the opportunity
to explore areas not discussed in class.
President John Elrod agreed to be
the Society’s first speaker of the year.
Rust and Poynter also hope to per-
suade author John. Grisham to speak.

just plain good looks have made it extremely popu-
lar, though a lot of what is there may be less useful
than the information to be found in other formats.

The World Wide Web at W&L can be most
effectively accessed via labs in Gaines Dorm,
Newcomb Hall, the library, Parmly, the C-School,
and Robinson Hall. They are connected to Liberty
via Ethernet connections, which allow them to effec-
tively run the memory-greedy Mosaic and Netscape
programs which allow the Web to be seen in its full
glory. For purely informational needs, the Web can
be browsed in a text-only format from private rooms
using Lynx from the Liberty UNIX prompt. W&L
Computing is contemplating connecting private
rooms with Ethernet connections, but no deﬁnite
plans have been made. In the meantime, solutions
using other programs are being improvised to make
the Web more accessible in complete form to private
rooms.

Many students and others at W&L have designed
their own Web “pages,” now accessible from the
W&L Home Page, which feature their own interests,
artwork, and writing. Hints about creating personal
Web pages are also accessible from the W&L Home
Page.

Also available are commercial services which
make research easier and more topical, as well. W&L
has made UnCover, Firstsearch, and Lexis/Nexis
available from Liberty. These services are designed
for research related directly to academic work, and
include databases of articles in journals, newspapers,
magazines, as well as government documents and
legal and medical news.

New developments in computing this year in-
clude several thousand dollars’ worth of new com-
puters in the student labs; a new administrative
computer, AUGUSTA, which is ten to 20 times
faster than the old system, has ten times as much
central memory and three times as much disk space;
a new network ﬁle sewer for administrative users; an
upgrade in W&L’s Internet link from 56,0()0 bits per
second to 1.5 million bits per second; a newer, faster
processor, known as LOGIC, for USENET
newsgroups; an increase in ports so that more users
can be connected at once without waits, and new
SLIP/PPP connections accessible via phone lines to
allow full Web usage; a Student Help Desk in Tucker
227 which will provide general user assistance and
some multimedia facilities for students, and a new
System Information Hotline at 463-8409 which will
announce scheduled and unscheduled maintenance
and will recite the new dial-in numbers for the
University’s modems.

New developments in W&L’s computing capa-
bilities are announced and discussed in the
“wIu.computing” newsgroup on Liberty ’s USENET,
and changes are taking place every day. While most
students still. may only be using their e-mail or
connecting to Annie for preliminary research, there
is a full range of opportunities to learn more about, as
well as learn from, the Information Superhighway——
or whatever you want to call it.

Cable 2 boasts new
shows, new equipment

Write to
he D17/i

We welcome your imput

phi@wlu.edu

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

Cable 2, Washington and Lee’s Io-
cal-access television station, starts its
fall programming with new shows and
new equipment.

The equipment cost about $36,000
and includes three cameras, tripods,
and a new switcher. Engineers came in
over the summer and rewired the stu-
dio.

The journalism department received
the money after the administration ap-
proved a plan submitted by department
head Hampden Smith.

Cable 2 managers plan an expanded
lineup for this year. Programming be-
gins at 5:30 on the weekdays and runs
till 10. Exact times for all shows have
yet to be set, but Program Manager
Callie James expects to set the times in
the next few weeks.

The Dating Game and W&L Genes
return to the lineup, which will also
feature new shows.

The Roommate Game, James said,
is patterned after The Newlywed Game
and is designed to let roommates dis-
cover more about each other.

Today's Issues, which follows a
roundtable discussion format, will fea-
ture discussions on student media, the
Virginia Women’s Institute for Lead-
ership at Mary Baldwin College and
student internships.

The station this year subscribes to
the Burly Bear Network, a show aimed
at college students. The show includes
a recurring cooking segment called
Half-Baked and a music segment.

“On the first show, they follow the
Samples around,” said James. “So it’s
good music, no MC. Hammer or any-
thing like that.”

With the expanded line-up, director
Lucy Barnett hopes to attract a wider
variety of students to work for Cable 2.

“Freshmen can’t take journalism
classes yet,” she said. “This is the ﬁrst
opportunity for them to get involved
with broadcasting. And we want people
to know it’s not just for journalism
majors.”

 

   

1';

4

C
A.
The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 22, 1995 1 Q

PAGE 3

HIDY BRING-S,F’ALETTE OF INFINITE POSSIBILITES TO CAMPUS

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

On the role of graphic art within today’s culture, visiting
artist Lance Hidy declares that it affects “the way we think
of ourselves, see ourselves, and see the world.”

Himself an accomplished ﬁgure in the world of graphic

A art, Hidy shared own insight last Tuesday evening on the
‘process by which an idea can become so powerful a form of
expression on paper.

Before an audience brimming over the seats of duPont
Hall onto the carpet and into the door frames, lance Hidy
reflected upon the origins and course of his own artistic

‘career, opening his lecture with a salute to a resource
' available to every college student, the school library.

“What a difference the college resources made to me,”
Hidy exclaimed, “and to students at W&L as well!”

As an undergraduate student at Yale, Hidy whiled away
‘many hours hunting though stacks of old books and illus-
trated manuscripts.

His hours there proved of value, and Hidy, who had
always considered himself more a ﬁne artist than any other
type, found in these books an introduction to a world he has

K

THE
POSTER

 

LANCE HIDY
CREATED
FOR THE
W&L

IEYBURN LIBRARY

‘K/Ai13=i’~IC?ON ANE‘ IE3 UNl‘.’ER’,I‘§"I

LIBRARY

A

program.

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Carter ﬂounders pathetically be-
fore an audience of millions. Scenes
from an old presidential debate?
No. A typical Thursday night epi-
sode of NBC’s ER.

After the hour-long dose of in-
tense emergency room drama, those
students addicted to the series can
,4 ﬂick off the T.V. and once again
settle back into the routine of their
own lives. For one group of W&L

g‘ Dr. Darcy Russell of the Biology
Department has assisted in rounding
up students to participate in the pro-

 

I
IWorI2ing tor the Community
I at Stonewall Jaclzson Hospital

the extended care facility, which deal
with the elderly. '

Sawyer now intends to become
physician assistant, and attributes he
certainty about her future career choic
to the “wonderful” experience hertim
at Stonewall Jackson has given her.

Sawyer fondly recalls working i
the clinic of Doctor Zel, particularl
when given opportunities of workin
with actual instruments and real pa
tients, and remembers with relief tha
the doctors and nurses took the time t
explain things; such helpfulness ha
made her tasks all the more valuable

never left since, that of graphic art.

Appreciative of the visual effect alone of the elaborate
illustrations he found, Hidy gained from his searches an
appreciation also for the history and tradition of graphic art.

“Renaissance art,” Hidy reminded his audience, “was
basically commerciaI;” DaVinci, Raphael and nearly all the
other masters of their day worked under commissions,
whether for private patrons or public religious institutions.

Graphic art, then, has held a role in modern civilization
over a span of many years, and has evolved into an “inter-
national language,” in Hidy’s words.

As a language of images, graphic art depends upon both
the technique of the skilled craftsman, and the impulse of the
fine artist. Hidy, a man in whom both technique and impulse
meet, describes the result as “an exploration of surprises,” a
constant discovery of new images.

Lance Hidy is a pioneer in the world of graphic design,
in the truest sense of the word, and is now involved in
exploring graphic art at the-outermost boundaries that tech-
nology allows.

The computer has become for Hidy both paintbrush and
canvas, and with the roll of a mouse he enjoys “an infinite
palette of possibilities.”

On his cherished Macintosh, Hidy is able to work freely
with an image, experimenting with its color, size, shape and

texture. He is satisfied only when he has found “the inner
nature of each medium, the Zen.”

Wondering at the freedom with which creativity can flow
from person to machine, Hidy remarked, “If you can think
of it, you can do it,” adding in the next breath, “You can even
do things you can’t think of.”

Hidy closed his lecture with a demonstration of his
creative process, projecting on the wall the images that
appear on his computer screen as he creates a work of art.

Hidy has been an active presence on the W&L campus
throughout the past week, attending classes, participating
workshops, and holding brown bag lunch discussions and
public lectures; he is, however, no stranger to Lexington.

Hidy visited the town several years ago when commis-
sioned to design a poster for W&L, and within the next few
months he and his family will leave New England, to
become permanent members of the Lexington community.

It is perhaps only fitting that the poster of internationally
recognized graphic artist Lance Hidy hanging today on
capus walls has as its subject the very building from which
his own interest in graphic art sprang up, a college library.

An exhibition of the work of Lance Hidy is on display in
duPont Gallery through October 16, and additional posters
and books of the artist may also be viewed in beybum
Library.

CAMPUS PROFILE:

PROFESSOR CLAUDIA ANDREWS
REVEALS HER PARTIALTY TO
CATS AND GOOD MEXICAN FOOD

students and other community vol-
unteers, however, the drama of the
emergency room can be experienced
first-hand.

These students work undera new
arrangement between W&L and
Lexington’s Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, some as volunteers and

A others as part of their work study

gram, along with Carol Elsnick, the
volunteer coordinator, and on Septem-
ber 16 a training session was held for
new and returning volunteers.

Junior Katherine Sawyer began
working at Stonewall Jackson her
sophomore year, as part of her work
study program. Her experiences have

ranged from the emergency room to

and interesting.

Like Hans Yao (’98), who wants to
start working at Stonewall Jackson this
fall, many of the students participating
in the program profess to be pre-med.

As for the more squeamish student,,
meanwhile, who elects to enjoy the
blood and gore vicariously, there’s al-
ways ER.

‘The Prophecy: Biblical

characters

and a SCooI)y Doo script

  
    

 

  
    

  
   
 

    

K
' BY KURT SUSONGI—— ;_ 4
4 Phi Reviewer A I out beyond what you might expect on a typical
_ __ , Tales from the Crypt episode. Even Christo-
pher Walken, probably the spookiest actor in
. the business today, seems like he’s just walking
through his lines. ~
4 o The ”,’0P’*eCY ' TWO SW5 . Another big problem with the film is that it
Her? I5 ‘IIIOIIISI mm III?" has much PI°_mI5_° leaves us with so many unanswered questions.
. but ultlmately‘ fails to deliver. The premise is lf a fllmmaltel. wants me to suspend my dlsbe_
rather interesting: what if the angels in heaven llef and embraee the fantasy world he ereates,
got T“«3IIY “P591 3b°III God I°VI“g II“ma“5.5° the least hecan do ismake italittle easierforme,
t much and decided to revolt? But the execution answerlng some of the most obvlous questions
( '~ I5 m“ddI°d’ °°“f“SI,"g and g°”°“’IIy S_IIaII°W- he raises. For example, exactly what are the
Inmanyways,thiscompleteconfusionisone waning angels ﬁghtlng for? lf the hnman_
@ of the most attractive parts of the ﬁlm. Through- hating angels wln, wlll they destroy mankind or
. ::".:.:“.:":3;'6:.:V:.?.'i.i.°t‘i::::Ji.“:z::‘e::"%  . 
@ Why do they itgrant to get theirhands on this <§th)e.r - on a more Senous-IeveI’ the mm S Iheobgy
g. . is even more confusing. At one moment the
ma"? Wha’ 50'‘ °f‘”"“Z’”g P0"’e’5 '10 “"3315 director is towing the party line of right-wing
— H have‘? _TII° mmmaker Phys III’ III“ Sense of Christianity; the next, he reverts to the sort of
mY5II°I5m and w°IId°IIIIaIaPP°,aI5I° eY°IY°"°_- retro-Indian mystical pablum we have seen in
‘O The film unfortunately has little going fOl"lI Thunderheatt, Natural Bom Klllers, The Doors
‘ beSIde5_III° g°IIeI,aI “II” S“”°““dIIIg III_° SIOIY S and a number of other recent films. In a film full
°°""aI Id‘?a' wIIII° d"°°I°IGI°g°Iy WIde" (‘he of angels and priests, references to Lucifer and
m 5°reeIIwIIt°I of B“Ckd_’“-ﬂ) wants I0 Show Christ, and even an extra chapter of the Book of
SP°°I‘"Ie5S “Id f°I°b°dI“g’ III“ I335‘ he ca" do Revelations, how should a little girl be exor-
are 5”,dd°"’ sketchy ﬂashback Seems “Id °°I‘ cised of an evil, unwanted inhabitant? Through
°I,ed IIgIIIS mmed through “I6 II_aZ° _°f Smoke‘ some sort of mystical Indian ceremony in a
4 ﬂ It s the sort of dry-ice-machine—inspired terror nneblo full of ehantlng and smoke, of eoutsel
that .Scooby D00 and Friends were constantly At any rate’ this ﬁlm lsnat a eomnlete dlsan_
Q finding at the end of eatchshow. ,1 can just hear nolntment, simply because the ntemlse ls so
the a“$°I5 °ryI"g °“I’ If II had" IP66” for Yotﬂ novel and the actors so capable. But the sense
I'“°%3:1IIIg II“maII5v °“I' PIaII WOIIICI Ve w°Ik°d~ of wonder and eager interest we have through-
4 > aIaIIIa°I°d m"jI9Ih° mm IIIIIIC ﬁfst PIa°° out the film is never rewarded with any sort of
‘ was the cast. PulpFzctzon veterans Christopher fulﬁllment. Let.S just hope that this movie
m Walken, Eric Stolta and Amanda PlumrI}6f_a{¢ doesn’t leave any lingering side effects on its
all present, along with lesser actors like Virginia east’ or lts Poor dlteetot and screenwriter G,-e-
. § Madsen and Ellas Koteas (best known for Teen- gory widen Maybe his next ﬁlm will rely less
385 Mutant Nmla “"1195 and "5 °‘l“3IIY W‘ on colored lights and more on a screenplay to
’( 5P°°IabI° 5F‘l“°I)- TII°_°a5I ‘I065 as fI“° alob 35 establish mood and tension. The Prophecy is
possible, given the limits of the rest of the film. simply too shallow to be anytllmg other than a
The 5CI’°_°“PIaY T°3II)’ 5‘l“3"d°I5_ “I9 Went 35‘ video rental for a stormy night after a tough
sembled, none of the characters is ever ﬂeshed tellglon exam_
‘- Q)
i< : .07; . _ 
I ed-on , its free and'tyou__
, nr ftietid, id heneverlaugiied‘ 3 ar__ .
Q "Don’t waste yonzitimci gr _ 1feast.don1’tv&aste iron this ‘ ' ‘ere’S“3IW3Y§ WV.)
In t .: it . _t .,.  ., _   _ 

 

 

 

BYDARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Prof. Claudia Emerson Andrews’
favorite restaurant doesn’t exist—at
least not in town! She loves Mexican
food, and says, “One of my great disap-
pointments is that there isn’t a Mexican
restaurant in Lexington. Don’t you
think it would go?” Actually, I’m
kind-of partial to Taco Bell.....

With or without the restaurant, Prof.
Andrews still likes the town, and adores
her job teaching at W&L. The class she
takes most seriously is her creative
writing class, because it is so near her
heart. Prof. Andrews stresses that above
all else, she is a poet-—a revelation she
arrived at not so long ago. In fact, she
probably would still be a rural letter
carrier, running a bookstore on the side,
if not for a certain conversation she had
with her husband, Jesse.

‘‘I came home one day and said, ‘I
think I really know what I am.’ He
said, ‘Well, what is it?’ and I said, ‘I ’m
a poet. That’s what I am. That’s what
I want to pursue.’ He said, ‘I’m just so
glad you finally figured that out.’ I feel
like most people would have said,
‘You’re what? You better not quit

your job! ’ He could have responded in
a lot of negative ways, but it was only
after that that I went on to graduate
school.

When she’s not busy teaching, she
likes to spend time writing poetry, or
scribbling in her journal. ‘‘I would
encourage everyone to keep a journal,”
says Andrews. “l’ve been keeping one
on and off since l’ve been about twenty.
But l’ve been writing very faithfully
for about ten years. lt\rquote s a good
place to let off steam!” Prof. Andrews
uses her journal to write about her daily
activities, and to jot down ideas for her
P°°II'Y-

A populartheme in her poetry is the
elderly, and Prof. Andrews explains
why. “My father had three old maid
aunts, and we went to visit them every
Sunday without fail. I have very vivid
early memories of going to visit them
and being made to kiss them and

be nice to them——it was just awful!
But, I write about them now. I remem-
ber them and I hope I didn’t show my
disgust at the time ‘cause they were
real sweet ladies.” -

However, Prof. Andrews did not
always want to be a poet, or even a
teacher for that matter. “The main
thing I wanted to be for a long time was
a country music singer. So, when l was
in my teens, I started playing the guitar

and singing. That was my dream: to go
to Nashville and be a country star. I
wrote my own songs. Actually, when
l was in college in Charlottesville, I
played guitar and sang for money in
bars.”

Prof. Andrews also likes to‘ spend
time with her menagen'e——six cats,
three dogs, and a chicken named
“Cluck” who visits her home on occa-
sion. “Jesse always says that I’m a
budding cat lady——you know, those
weird women in cities who have shop-
ping carts and a lot of cats,” relates
Andrews. “I hope it’s not that bad, but
I am a sucker for strays.” Most of her
pets indeed are strays; she rescued one
of her cats from a nearby dumpster
when it was just a kitten.

The one thing the professor does
not like about herself is the fact that
she’s a negative thinker. “I worry that
things are going to go wrong even
when I don’t have any reason to think
they will. My husband accuses me of
driving my car off the bridge before I
get to the bridge! I have a very vivid
imagination, and I can imagine disas-
ter easily.”

Prof. Andrews\ vivid imagination
also nurtures her students, who will
continue to learn and grow through her
teaching until her appointment ends
next June.

’vv\’VV\’VV\!

Quiclz and easy Iiot pot treats

to transform your dorm room

into your own private D-Hall

I

I

I

l  ; I
| 1 bag, marshmallows |
I Several bars, Hershey's I
I Chocolate candy bars I
l 1 box, honey grahams l
I DIRECTIONS: I
l Piercing a marshmallow :
l with a #2 pencil,roast over a l
l hot pot to desired texture. l
I

I

I

Sandwich between grahams |
and chocolate. Repeat. I

 

ii’ ——————— ' _ 7
. CHEESECAKE
I tiIi3r~I__T_s_:

I 1 Box,Jello No-Bake

: CheesecakeMix

l 1 Can of Pie Filling,made
l with desired fruit (blue-
l berry, strawberry and
l cherry in particular)
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

DIRECTIONS:

Using hot pot as a bowl,
prepare Jello mix and
refrigerate. Serve chilled
with fruit topping.

F “““““““ 
I

CHOCOLATE
FOND UE

I
I
I I
I I
I I
l IN REDIE : I
I Several chocolate bars l
I 1 cup of milk (or so) I
l Several handfuls, fresh l
I I
| DIRE I N : l
I Throw chocolate pieces I
l into heated hot pot, adding I
I
I I
I I

milk until creamy. Dip
. fruit into fondue and serve.

PAGE 4

 

 

W&LIFE

A

The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 22, 1995

GOING WHERE NO %oMAN HAS GONE BEFORE

VMI's Classrooms open to 42 college Women this year, and one W&L student participates

    

By TARAH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

adition has always been a highly
.1

treasured quality in Lexington. For
many years, Lexington’s two male col-
leges closely guarded their tradition of
single-sex education.

The admission of women was ﬁrst
considered by W&L in 1896 as a means
of increasing registration and income,
but while The Ring-tum Phi advocated
co-education, the faculty voted it down
nine to one. 89 years later, in the fall of
1985, the first female students enrolled
at W&L.

VMI, on the other hand, has re-
mained an all-male institution.

Resisting change

“We feel our system is best done in
a single—sex environment,” said Mike
Strickler, Director of Student Affairs
at VMI. “Obviously it has been suc-
cessful over the last 156 years. and it is
important to us to keep this tradition.”

Many people support this tradition,
including representatives of seven
women’s colleges, who fear that if the
federal government succeeds in forc-
ing the all-male VMI to admit females,
all-female colleges would find them-
selves in jeopardy as well.

“Studies have shown that some stu-
dents perform better in single—sex
schools,” said Lt. Col. Courtney
Wheeler, a 1972 graduate of VMI who,
like most alumni, stresses the impor-
tance of keeping VMI an all-male
school. “States should provide single-
sex programs for both sexes. The sys-
tem at VMI works well as it is; it would
have to be remarkably changed to ac-
commodate women.”

The rituals and rigor of VMI have
long been a part of the school’s tradi-
tion, and VMI is infamous for the ha-
rassment and intense discipline the stu-
dents must endure their freshman year.

Specifically, VMI uses the “adver-
sative method,” in which students are
subjected to intense physical and psy-
chological pressure——with no pri-
vacy——in an effon to build group cohe-
S1011.

Spokespeople for the women’s col-
leges argue that the premise behind the
need for separate leadership programs
for women is that the methods used in
VMI are appropriate only for men.

Court action

Much controversy has arisen con-
cerning VMI’s all-male admission
policy recently. In its 1990 lawsuit
against VMI and the Commonwealth
of Virginia, the Justice Department
said the military
college’spolicyviolated
the 1964 Civil Rights

WOMEN IN THE

fered the state of Virginia three op-
tions: 1) to admit women to VMI and
make the necessary adjustments, 2) to
set up a parallel program for women at
another school, or 3) to end public
funding and turn VMI into a private
institution.

Virginia chose to set up an altema-
tive program for women at Mary
Baldwin College in nearby Staunton,
hoping to satisfy constitutional con-
cems without abandoning VMl’s tra-
dition.

VWIL establish ed

Mary Baldwin College explains the
resulting women’s program, Virginia
Women’s lnstitue for Leadership
(VWIL), as a rigorous program de-
signed to give students the knowledge,
skills, character and opportunities that
will allow them to obtain and succeed
in positions of leadership in the private
or public arena, includ-
ing the military.

The program con-

Act and the equal pro- VWIL PROGRAM WILL sists of four interrelated
tection clauseof the 14th components: curricu-
Amendment tothe Con- FACE SOME OF THE lum, co-curruculum,
stitution. SAME PRESSURES THAT physical and health edu-

VMI, meanwhile,
claimed that the 1972
Title IX educational
amendments to the Civil
Rights Act “expressly
authorize”asingle-gen-
der admission policy for
public undergraduate in-
stitutions, emphasizing
the importance of
single-sex education. Judge Jackson
Kiser ruled that VMI should be left
alone.

The Fourth Circuit Court of Ap-
peals ruling last fall agreed with Kiser
but insisted there was still a 14th
Amendment problem. The court of-

THEIR VMI CLASS-
MATES WILL, BUT
THEIRS WILL BE "A
NURTURING AND P()SI-
TIVE COMM UNITY. . . "

cation, and military
leadership. Students
will be members of the
Virginia Corps of Ca-
dets. Because it is of-
fered under contract
with the Common-
wealth of Virginia, fi-
nancial support is avail-
able to all Virginia resi-
dents, lowering the base tuition.

The VWIL program coordinates
military training with the Reserve Of-
ficerTraining Corps at VMI, but other-
wise is vastly different from its male
counterpart.

“Our goals are different,” explained

Professor Brenda Bryant to potential
students at Mary Baldwin’s visiting
day last weekend.
“VWIL is a 24-hour
leadership environ-

"THE ‘RATS’ ARE RE-

   
 

Scott Dittman have worked closely with
Mandeville, helping her organize her
schedule and trans-
fer credits, since her
admission to the uni-

ment as opposed to H M“, versity last spring.

VMl’s 24-hour mili- ALLYNI,CE' DEWLLE “We are thrilled
t a r y (W&L  SAYS OF HER to haveJenniferhere
environment...Building VM I CLAggMA1~Eg,_ [at VMI] and are
character is our ﬁrst gladtohelpherkeep
prion'ty;competence is "THEY TREAT TE “Ia A her scholarship and
second.” BROTHER RAT. pursue her educa-

The first-year ca-
detsatVMl,fondly as-
signed the nickname
‘rats,’ must wear unifonns all day,walk
on campus in rigid military style and
drop for push-ups at the whim of any
upperclassman. In the VWIL program,
meanwhile, participating women will
wear uniforms once a week, and al-
though they face similar academic pres-
sures, theirs will be, according to
Bryant, “a nurturing and positive com-
mumty.”

VWlL’s charter class of 42 women
has received much media attention over
the past month, and both VMI and
Mary Baldwin are pleased with the
positive publicity the program has re-
ceived.

“It has exceeded the expectations of
[both schools],” Strickler said. “We
are 100% behind the program. It will
accomplish what it has set out to ac-
complish.”

W&L woman a VWIL partici-
pant ‘

The VWIL participants, however,
are not the only females making a de-
but on the VMI campus this fall. W&L
freshman Jennifer Mandeville was
awarded a four-year Army ROTC
scholarship before receiving her letter
of acceptance from W&L.

W&L’s Dean Sessions and VMl’s

tional objectives,”
said Dittman.

After the
Citadel’s harsh reception of Shannen
Faulkner earlier this fall, Mandeville
and many of the VWIL participants
were concerned about the reaction of
the VMI cadets.

“The girls were scared; many of
them had emblazoned in their minds
the picture of the guys at the gate of the
Citadel,” Bryant explained. “But the
last thing that VMl wanted was that
image of its tradition. We are very
pleased with the hospitality of VMl.”

While the VWIL students only at-
tend a weekly military science class at
VMI, Mandeville must also fulﬁll the
physical training of her ROTC scholar-
ship at VMI.

“The ‘rats’ are really nice,”
Mandeville said. “They treat me like a
brother rat; we splash through the mud
together, and help each other out.”

Mandeville will be the second fe-
male student to be commissioned dur-
ing her time at Washington and Lee.

Her predecessor, Loretta Lee
Vandenburg, set some high standards
of success for Mandeville to follow.
Vandenburg had completed a year at
the US Naval Academy before trans-
ferring to W&L.

She then took military science
classes here and was commissioned

2nd Lieutenant in the Marine Corps in
December 1990 by the VMI ROTC
unit at a special ceremony in Lee)(
Chapel, going on to score the second
highest of any woman on a Marine
Corps leadership exam and was se-
lected for the American Gladiators pro-
gram. j‘
An uncertain future for single-
sex education

As more opportunities open for
women in the military, females are
bound to continue to challenge single- N
sex traditions.

Last June, the Clinton Administra-
tion asked the Supreme Court to appeal
the decision by the US Court of Ap-
peals that allowed VMI to exclude,‘
women provided that Virginia created ‘
the leadership program at Mary
Baldwin College. In its appeal, ﬁled in
May, the Administration argued that
the appeals court relied on “harmful
gender stereotypes” when it approved A
the plan earlier this year. A brief filled
by the Justice Department rejected the
argument that women could not with-
stand the adversative program: “The
history of sex discrimination in the
United States has been replete with
official assumption that women and
men properly belong in restrictive sepa-
rate spheres and plat different societal
roles according to sex. The exclusion ‘
of women from VMI impermissibly'
recognizes one such assumption~—that
where military-style education can be
preserved in its ‘true’ and most regorous
form, women simply do not belong.”

The Supreme Court must now de- l.
cide either to hear or to decline the
case. Until then, the prospect of women
one day attending VMl as full-time
students is left to speculation. As
Dittman put is, “only God and the
Army know” what will happen.

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services is
now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Daytona and Panama City Beach.
Ca 1 1-800-648-4849

BIG WEEKENDS,

GRADUATION. . .

Rent a house for he price
of a motel room!
463-5350 or (703) 978-2416

pogo9.Qo'

Ladies ’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

  

GOOD
WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail

 
    
   
       
       

tor

national company! Free

supplies, postage! No
selling! Bonuses! Start
immediately! Genuine
opportunity! Rush SAS.E.:
GHC. SUITE 216
1861 N.FEDERAL HWY
HoLLYwooD.FL 33020

R l".'l'l R I’. ,\l li N 'I‘ l\ \' If .\”l'l .\ ('.

\\\

.’

\. . M _,_,.;,_,\,/ ﬁg K)“  .

 

. .43, ,..c,_ X . 
« z


:7/_,2‘”'”“-fgw

Welcome Back Students BIG WEEKENDS, »

GRADUATION...
Rent a House for the price of a

motel room.’
463-5350 or (703)978-2416 ,1

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450 %

 

(703)463-5988

\ 

X
, . A ._j
IF OU VE GOT WHAT IT TAKES 5 I
TOIBE Aéli/\DER[%N OUR COMPAN Y, T
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START >-
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.
L

N. an't afford to save for retirement? Even if you're not counting the years to

E The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF

;§ Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve —

.3? can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want with ﬂexible retirement and tax-deferred 1‘
E to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-

 do now. And that takes planning. ment choices, and a record of personal .

‘: By starting to save now, you can take service that spans 75 years. I ’

§ advantage of tax deferral and give your Over 1.7 million people in education and  " " if L‘ - ' - ' ' " '  -- ' - » .    ..  V .. - .- ..  .

E money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CREF at the top of X
i Consider this: Set aside just $100 each their list for retirement planning. Why not .. . , . _ _ ,

E . - - f ’ ' L ill . . . ‘ E 4 ' " ' -

 momh besinmns at age 3° and y°" can ‘1°'" them? . . ma rm 1361::/than $35.0 31%! 3'55; i‘:’l1§f(lf lgfg if '5: f\cirr(7)eCii }ll:l);lfJi”l€.:j 33:35 {iii/ai5§tllf?r.§‘$i2 neifl(i’r(()OI)1fd

-? a°°“'““1a‘° °"°6’ $17 ’r‘°9* by “"3 time can '°d“y “d lea” h°“' simple " '5  It/larine Oifflcerl iirriée} tandidcrtes School (OCS) is lead to an exciting career in av‘atron lfgyoffve got

5 ou reach ag 5. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you  'r I ' ‘ ' ' - O I , p . ~‘ _ ' ‘ . ‘ _

E y 'll h t ebud et $21 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on me 'ﬁ,,m‘,"'{Cp fowards prepafmg 0“ for a L‘/n‘"_’t rakef to  a leader of Marines’ you If
: 3'°“ "9 ° 5 9 _ future beyond anything you could Imagine. coula get an office Will? a spectacular view.

5 to reach the same goal. your side. 

 sum planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.  

.5   Ensuring the future If you have what it takes to be an Officer of Marines, please see x
§ for those Who shape it-"‘ Captain Harwell at Evans Dining Hall from 71 AM - 1 PM on October 4, 1995,

\ ,/ or call 7-800-542-5857.
‘A.v.vu:nz'ng an inlem-I mu nf 7 96 credited to TIM Retirement Annuiliu. TH: ml: [.1 aue9.oakly to 45¢-v the ponverandeﬂtd r/comyounﬁag. [aver nr ﬁigber mlu would
produce very different r¢.ml!.;. CREF certificate: an diilniulai 5y TIAA-CHEF Indiaaul an) Iuliluiianal Sewitu.

 

 

P

2'

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 1995

@112 Etittg-tum lﬁlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Tailgating must stay

Tailgating: a Washington and Lee tradition.
Like many of W&L’s most revered traditions
(Fall Rush, choosing your own housing, speaking
to each other, etc.), yet another is falling by the

wayside.

A few days ago, University Security notified the
Inter—Fraternity Council and Panhellenic Council
that tailgates, the ever—popular party outside of a
Jeep Cherokee trunk, were to be restricted to the
fenced lacrosse fields. Additionally, they are to last
only two hours from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.

The administration cites safety and liability
concerns as justification for the new limitations.
Undoubtedly, that ’s a valid concern.

Nevertheless. all-day tailgates are part of the
W&L experience. Football games simply won’t be
complete without chicken wings, bourbon-and-
cokes, and Dave Matthews cranking out of a car

} stereo. Tailgates, tubing on the Maury, and hooking
I up under the moon at the Ruins-—-these are the
« events that make undergraduate life unforgettable.

Washington and Lee students are a generally

7 easy-going and well-mannered bunch. For the most

part, they know when to say when. Drunken

’ tragedies are a rare phenomenon at W&L, thank

God. The Hill’s concerns regarding tailgates, while
thoughtful, are largely unfounded. We certainly
can’t recall any tailgating nightmares.

For better or worse, student autonomy has
become a buzz phrase around the W&L campus.
Trespasses against the fiercely valued
independence of students are not treated lightly.
Restricting tailgaiting seems a foolish choice for
which the administration is rallying. Indeed, more
important issues facing the student body demand
the Hil1’s attention—-sexual assault, violent hazing,
and drug abuse, to name a few.

. Tailgates are about harmless fun. They offer a
respite from the stressful working week. They
provide a chance for the W&L community to
gather and support our fighting Generals.

Like Garbo, tailgates should simply be left alone.

Quote of the Week

“Bowties have been relegated to the land of
nerds, geeks and dweebs. That’s Manning, Atkins

and me.”

—-Professor Andrew Jackson Holliday

PAGE 5

l

i‘ ‘lhoj u\\\ 3’: EM become 't\ get-» slrtoda! even, \/eor:_

Overdue political overhaul in works

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

To say that the 1996 elections will
be imponant may seem banal to most,
but here I intend to put a new spin on
that statement. I think the 1996 elec-
tions are likely to tell us as much about
what sort of political system we want
to have in place as they will about
particular candidates or ideologies.

The most obvious example is the
continuing question over the possibil-
ity of a third or fourth candidate, run-
ning as an independent. However, I
would argue that the mere presence of
an independent candidate won’t tell us
nearly as much about the future of the
two major political parties as
pundits think.

In 1992, America was subjected to
the candidacy of egotistical billionaire
Ross Perot. Like the electorate, Perot
wanted change immediately. Conse-
quently, he passed up his excellent
chance to form a third party and chose
instead to leave his followers drifting
in the wind after the election.

What’s the difference, you ask? The
difference is that many states have an
automatic threshold guaranteeing bal-
lot access to a third party if it scores
above a certain level in the previous
election. In other words, Mr. Perot
could have been sitting at the head of a
third party in 1996 with ballot access in
dozens of states guaranteed. The polls
consistently show that a large segment
of the American electorate views the
possibility of a third party favorably.

While the most likely independent

candidate in 1996 remains open to ques-
tion, it seems as though a strong possi-
bility exists. With that in mind, it will
be the identity and beliefs of any inde-
pendent candidate that will be the deci-
sive factors in any possible fonnation
of a third party. Are voters and activists
merely interested in the instant gratiﬁ-
cation of an independent candidacy
rather than the real change a third party
would bring?

If a third party does emerge, one
wonders if the American political sys-
tem itself will adapt to prevent the
possibility of more presidents by plu-
rality. In a four-candidate race, assum-
ing for the sake of simplicity that ap-
peal remains constant nationwide, the
winner need only have 26 percent na-
tionwide to be elected in an electoral
landslide. This is hardly true
majoritarian rule. ,

Reform of the electoral college sys-
tem is never discussed in current politi-
cal talk. Yet it may be one of the most
important reforms needed in American
government. It would probably only
take one gross example of this or one
election thrown into the House of Rep-
resentatives for the American people
to demand change. But then again, why
wait until something goes wrong?

This year has also seen the extreme
front-loading of the primary schedule
as states scramble to move forward in
the process in order to remain relevant.
The results of this 1996 shufﬂe may
reverberate in years to come as future
primary structures are studied. Will
legislatures merely play “Can you top
this?” or will a better primary
system emerge?

A major structural question also
exists for the two parties themselves.
Since 1994, we have seen an unprec-
edented ﬂood of conservative Demo-

crats moving to the Republican party at
all levels of government on at least
nominally ideological grounds. Given
the intense dislike of the liberal wing of
the Republican party for their religious
conservative brethren, the next couple
of years may determine if liberal Re-
publicans are likely to abandon the
GOP. The 1996 election and events
shortly afterward may ﬁnally reveal
whether we are seeing an ideological
solidiﬁcation in the parties or a mere
ﬂood of rats jumping a sinking ship.

Another major question to be an-
swered deals with the ideological ten-
dencies of the voters themselves. Since
the 1996 election, the liberal media has
been chanting the mantra that the vot-
ers merely had a tantrum in 1994, de-
nying any ideological bent to the change
in the fervent hope that it will become
accepted fact.

This dubious illusion ignores im-
portant advances by conservatives in
1994, particularly social conservatives.
Nonetheless, we are likely to find out
what the ideological bent of the elec-
torate really is. Is the “radical middle”
made up of merely cynical iconoclasts
or will it continue the House Republi-
cans’ conservative revolution?

1996 will also be about the future of
Congress. Since 1994, virtually every
political scientist agrees that the major
spotlight has shifted to Congress from
the presidency. The congressional elec-
tions in 1996 may be much more im-
portant than the presidential election,
for a couple of reasons.

In races for the Senate, the deluge of
Democratic retirements (seven so far)
presents many open races, in which
voters will not only decide between
Democrats and Republicans. They will
also determine whether they want more
of the active conservative Republicans

or the moderate deal-makers to run for
these slots.

Senate Majority Whip Trent Lott
would be one of the favorites to suc-
ceed Bob Dole as Majority Leader if
necessary, and the Republican party in
the Senate would certainly take on a
more hard-line tone under the former
Gingrich colleague. Will the voters
empower the recently ascendant Sen-
ate conservatives to enforce more party
discipline and stick to their guns, or
will they measure politicians by the
number of bills they produce?

This theme of principle versus com-
promise is paralleled in the intensify-
ing Gramrn/Dole primary collision as
well as the upcoming budget ﬁght.
Republicans will soon be called on to
choose whether or not to blink in their
stare-down with Bill Clinton. Major
forces in both houses are willing to
undergo a government shutdown if they
can force Clinton to sign Republican
appropriations goals into law.

All of the above also says nothing
about the numerous Constitutional
changes that may be imminent, from
term limits to a balanced budget to
religious equality. Nor does this ad-
dress the huge upcoming debates over
radical reform in both the tax code and
the structure of the executive branch.
Nor the continuing questions of devo-
lution in government and the restora-
tion of federalism.

The 1996 elections and upcoming
debates will soon create the most thor-
ough examination of the American
political system in decades. This will
include answers to many lesser-known
structural and electoral questions be-
sides the popular ideological ones.

An old Chinese proverb says, “May
you live in interesting times.” Some-
how, I think we have that one covered.

Wacky, wacky, election year hij inks

@112 ‘iﬁtttg-tum iﬂhi

 

Executive Editors ................................................................. ..Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor......   Michael Hewlett
News Editors ............................................................... ..Anne Alvord, Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Mex Christgnsgn
Spons Editor ......... .. sum Bookwgngy
Features Editors cindig Young
Photography Editor Betsy Gm“
Editorial Cartoonists ............................................................. ..Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager .......... .. Rnhen Nclson

Assistant Business Manager ......................................................................... ..Doug Gertncr
Advenising Manager ..................... .. ...Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Anist . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Anne Alvord
Circulation Manager ................................................................................ ..Stephen Williard

    

The Ring-mm Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, roon1 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-turn Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wlu.cdu

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

Thank god for politics. What else am I going to do
with those three and a half minutes of unscheduled
time I have between 4:56:30 and 5 a.m.? The answer,
of course, is nothin’ more than politick, politick, and
politick some more.

And while you can ﬁnd analyses of the political
situation—who the Republican nominee will be,
whether Clinton will get a primary challenge, if
Colin Powell/Steve Forbes/Lowell Weicker/Ross
Perot/Bill Bradley might be the new political sav-
ior—pretty much anywhere, where else will you ﬁnd
a practical guide to Fun with the Presidential Election
than here in “The Far Middle”?

That’s right. Politics can be so much more than
old white guys in dark suits and red power ties talking
about “welfare” and “budgets” and “crap like that.”
In fact, it can be Fun with a capital F. Modern
technology and the quest for votes have combined to
allow you, the average American schlub, to have a
voice in our government.

Allow me to elaborate.

For instance, last year, when one of my personal
heroes and a great American, Joycelyn Elders, was
ﬁred as Surgeon General, I had the great pleasure of
writing a message by e-mail to the President (at
president@whiteh0use. gov) which began, “You f---
ing moron,” and went pretty much downhill from
there. While this was viscerally satisfying (try it,
you’ll see), l’m pretty sure it never actually reached
the President himself. His e-mail is probably even
more clogged than his regular mail. So while the
Secret Service men who showed up at my door in
Graham-Lees dorm seemed interested, I can’t help
but suspect that I may not have gotten my
point across.

Undaunted, l have tried to think of other ways to
get my political message through to the big-time
movers and shakers in Washington. This is really not
an easy thing to do, as the nature of politicians today
seems to be to isolate themselves as much as possible
from “the people,” principally because “the people”

are angry at “the politicians” for running “the coun-
try” into “the huge, festering pit of debt so great that
it can hardly be comprehended by the human mind,
much less paid off in our lifetimes” in which we ﬁnd
ourselves. They are likely to get beaned with a
ripe tomato.

Luckily, Jerry Brown still believes in communi-
cating with the people. He started the lovely trend of
“800-numbers” in 1992, which has now spilled over
into most mainstream campaigns. So now, you can
talk directly to the candidates, for free! Or at least
those guys who answer the phones when you call.

I have found it most effective to call late at night,
when they are least expecting it. It’s a fun study break
to sit back and punch in 1-800-GO-PAT-GO, then
just wait for the hilarity to begin. You’ll hear some-
thing like:

“Thank you for calling GO-PAT-GO. This is
Amy. Pat Buchanan is looking for patriotic Ameri-
cans like yourself who will support his efforts to take
America back from the professional politicians who
run Washington. To add your name to our list of
supporters, I just need your name, address, and phone
number. Would you like to add your name to our list
of supporters?” to which 1 like to respond, “No” and
then just see what they come up with. “What?” and
“OK, how may I help you?” are the standards, which
make me have to think of more witty things to say.
My favorite reply was, “Well then, would you like to
order a free trial copy of Soldier of
Fortune magazine?”

Or if Pat Buchanan is too scary for you, try the Bob
Dole campaign. Their number is 1-800-BOB-DOLE.
Catchy, huh? Sort of like the man himself. If you call
the Dole for President number, you’ll hear Bob
Dole sayi_ng:

“This is Bob Dole. Thank you for calling. Eliza-
beth and I would be honored to have your support.
America needs strong leadership, and with your help,
we can rein in the federal government, reconnect it to
our values, and reassert our inﬂuence abroad. But it ’s
not going to happen without a lot of hard work. That ’s
why we appreciate your willingness to help.” Then
you’ll be invited to learn more about how you can
join the Dole for President team or give a donation
by phone.

This might not sound like as much fun as harass-
ing real live people late at night, but with a little
creativity, it can be much more effective.

The ﬁrst thing you should know about politics,
just in case you don’t know anything about it yet, is
that there is one thing that can give you political
inﬂuence when nothing else can. No, l’m not talking
about voting. No, l’m not talking about wearing a big
red-white-and-blue button featuring a goofy mug
shot of your favorite candidate. No, l’m not even
talking about being informed about the issues. (I do,
however, recommend these, too.) No, what l’m talk-
ing about is DONATING BIG MONEY.

That’s right. If you can even hint to the right
people that you’ve got some big money to hand
around, you could become a candidate’s best friend.
Suddenly you’ll be invited to breakfasts and lun-
cheons and dinners and speeches and garden parties
and private teas, oh my! Your candidate will forget
about his own political stands and suddenly become
interested in what YOU think about a balanced
budget, illegal immigration, and a whole host of pet
issues you might want to bring up with him.

What’s that you’re saying? You don’t have big
money, but you’d like a piece of the action, too? You
think you have something to say about important
issues that might be constructive or instructive?

Well, just do what I did. When Bob Dole ﬁnishes
talking, hit 2 to donate big cash. l’m not saying you
should lie and say you’re ready to sign over your life
savings. l’m just saying that maybe, when the record-
ing asks how much you would like to donate, go for
the grand, man. I pledged $1000, the federal indi-
vidual contribution limit. Now, l’m not sure yet if I ’ll
be able to afford to actually include a check in the
envelope that arrived in my mailbox a few days later
when I return it to the campaign, but I will deﬁnitely
be including a short note letting them know exactly
where I think the campaign may be coming up short
in the ideas department.

Hey, all’s fair in love, war and politics, so enjoy
yourself! And remember, when the only way to get a
presidential candidate eager to tear into a letter from
an ordinary citizen is to make him think it’s stuffed
with cash, don’t be shy in letting him know what you
think about that. -

 

 

Growing up and getting published

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

I realize it’s fairly well-known that
I found a great deal of inspiration from
my mail. This week it wasn’t just an
inspiration; it was a calling. A letter
arrived offering me a “once in a life-
time experience.” “My knees turned to
jelly” is how Kathleen Sue Jones of
Carmichael, California described it
when it happened to her.

Alvin Tresselt, “Dean of Faculty”
at “The Institute of Children’s Litera-
ture,” wanted me to send in a writing
sample for a children’s book! Alvin
implied that “the heaven-on-earth tum-
ing point will be your first letter of
acceptance from an editor, followed by
the unforgettable experience of seeing
your words and your name in print.”
Alvin even sent a little book cover with
my name and “Growing Up” on it.

As I went through the letter 1 saw
that Deborah Wells of Leesburg, Vir-
ginia also said her “knees turned to
jelly.” This was too good to pass up.
l’ve decided that my new goal is to
write a children’s book. I want my
knees to turn to jelly.

Alvin even offered to enroll me in a
special class if my story was not yet

quite ready for publication, for a spe-
cial fee. In fact, there was a important
notice that the Connecticut Board of
State Academic Awards recommended
I receive 6 college credits should I
complete Alvin’s special children’s
book course. I

of their story before actually writing it.
It allows you to sketch out your ideas
so that, in my case, they fit into my

allotted column space in the Phi.
Since I will most likely need a cor-
porate sponsor to pay for the publica-
tionof my children’s

think it’s pretty
obvious that this
wouldbeanexcel-
lent replacement
for taking a Spring
Term class, in-
stead of taking
something silly

story I have no
z qualms at all about
throwing in refer-
ences to any num-
ber of products. In
fact, I may even hold
some sort of auction
for the right to ap-

here at W&L, pear in my story.
like Biology. My story is
“But where roughly like this: a

will I get the idea
for a children’s
story?” I asked
myself out loud. I

 

little boy named
Brian, in Nike Air
shoes, walked into
the Dollar Tree in

thought about Lexington where he
writing about sawforsale(forone
Jimmy, a seven- dollar) a Super
year-old heroin Power Robot
addict, but since Ranger plastic claw

that had been done
already, I took the letter’s advice and
decided to draw from my own experi-
ences and then make up details to make
them interesting.

it’s common practice for serious
writers like myself to write a synopsis

Announcing...

The Ring-tum Ph1"s new e-mail address:

ph1'@WIu.edu

Use The Phfs new e-mail address to
send letters to the editor, items for
General Notes, or story ideas.

(they’re in the toy
aisle—really). Brian thought, “Wow,
wouldn’t it be neat to have a cheap
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers
knock-off toy!”

He stuck his hand in the back pocket
of his Levi jeans to pull out his wallet

when his conscience began to speak:
“Brian, you can’t buy this product; it
would deprive the Mighty Morphin
Power Ranger Industrial Corporation
of its due royalties. Brian, how would
it make you feel if you made only $100
million off your line of overpriced,
easily breakable plastic toys?”

Brian thought about it for a while
and realized the moral of the story,
which he noted came on the second to
last page of the story, was to give
people their due credit (and money).
To rip off the Power Rangers would
not only be a mean thing to do, their
lawyers might have to come to your
house to turn your knees to jelly, if you
understand what I’m saying.

Brian walked next door to Wal-
Mart, where he bought several Mighty
Morphin Power Ranger products, as
well as more Levi jeans.

‘‘It feels good knowing l’ve ben-
eﬁted corporate America,” Brian said.
And he headed home to his parents,
who reminded him that this is what
“Growing Up” is all about. The End.

If a story like this can get me six
credits, I don’t care what anybody else
thinks: I’ll tell it to my future children,
and say, “This is what Daddy learned
in college.” And they’ll be proud. And
then they’ll go out and buy
me something.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 1995

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Cable 2

Cable 2 will hold an organiza-
tional meeting Sunday, Sept. 24 at 7
p.m. in the television studio in Reid
303. No experience is necessary. All
interested students are welcome.
Questions should be directed to Lucy
at 463-4121.

College Democrats

Students interested in working on
local campaigns and helping the
Democrats hold Virginia are invited
to the College Democrats meeting at
6:30 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 26 in the
Gameroom. For more information call
Nova at x4099.

Film Society

Washington and Lee’s Film Soci-
ety will meet on Tuesday, Sept. 26 at
4:30 p.m. in C-School 220 or 221. All
members and interested students are
invited to attend.

Habitat for Humanity

Habitat for Humanity will hold its
organizational meeting at7 p.m. Tues-
day, Sept. 26 in the Gameroom. Stu-
dents interested in building a house or
helping with fund-raising are invited.
Questions should be directed to Brad
at X4836 or Nova at x4099.

Hong Kong

Join W&L’s exchange program
with Chung Chi College of the Chi-
nese University ofHong Kong begin-
ning Sept. 1996. No Chinese lan-
guage skills are required. Courses are
in English; you pay W&L fees and
earn W& L credits. Contact Professor
Hill or Professor Rogers in the East
Asian Language Center (Red House)
for more information.

Mock Convention

Mock Convention is looking fora
student interested in the Internet,
Home Pages and computing. Inter-
ested students should call 462-4057.

Outdoor Program

The Outdoor'Program is sponsor-
ing kayaking lessons this term. Les-
sons are held Wednesday nights 8-10
p.m. in the small pool in the gym
(near the equipment check-out
booth). Formore information call
463-5947 or 463-5776.

Sigma Delta Chi

The Society of Professional Jour-
nalists/Sigma Delta Chi will meet at
6:30 p.m. Wednesday, Sept. 27 in the
J-school library on the second floor of
Reid Hall. All print and broadcast jour-
nalism students are welcome. For more
information call Lucy at 463-4121.

Who's Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current undergradu-
ate seniorclass for selection to Who ’s
Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges may do so
by submitting the name and qualiﬁ-
cations of that student to David L.
Howison, Dean of Students, in Payne
Hall 9 by Oct. 6. Criteria for selec-
tion to Who’s Who include scholar-
ship, participation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular activi-
ties, citizenship and service to Wash-
ington and Lee, and potential for
future achievement.

The Place Where Fresli is the Tttste;

 

503 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

(540) 463-3322

1' l‘}‘}‘s Hm ta.'»t“s :\-s~.ut'i.llt’~. Int.

FREE
1 SUB

Buy 2 Footlong
SUBS atregu-
iar price, Get
3rd SUB(of
equalorlesser
value) FREE

t

Good only at
. participating
’ SUEIWAYS. Not
1 Valid with any

other offer.

$ 1 I00
OFF

Any Footlong Sub

$.50

OFF
Any 6” Sub

Good at participating
SUBWAYS. Not valid
with any other offer.

Get a

22-02.

OTTSF.

FOOTLONG
SUB $.99

regular
footlong sub for
$.99 when you buy
a footlong sub and
soft drink
You pay regular
menu price for the
higher priced sub.

Good only at Par-
ticipating SUB-'
WAYS. Not valid
with any other

SUPER MEAL DEAL

$3.49

Get any regular
footlong sub
and a medium
soft drink for
just $3.99.

Good only at par-
ticipating SUB-
WAYS. Not valid
with any other

offer.

Applications for the state chairrnanships of:

Guam

US Virgin Islands
American Samoa

Vermont

available Monday, September 25, in front of the D-Hall

 

A Bistro

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

=
as
v-:
5"
V.l/

   

am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

10% off food - with student ID

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout

I

I

I

-B

I

I

I

I

I

I

5 Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
I All you can eat $4.99
I

: Thursday -

I

5 Friday - Seafood Nite -

I

: Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,

I 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95
I

 

19 W. Washin on St., Lexington, VA 24450

E. Nelson St., Lexington

HARDWARE STORES "

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

 
 

mxcovisn
How QLIIRKY
; we ARE!

POETRY MAGNETS

400 magnetic words
for refrigerator sonnets.

ELVIS VOTIVES
Dine b candlelight
wit the king.
MOUSE PADS
Mona Lisa. Water Lilies.
Vim Gogh sunﬂowers.
Die-cut cat. Creation.
Hershey chocolate bar
Grateful Dead.
flhe Scream.

VENUS 8: DAVID

Dtsrobe them. Dress them.
New build-a-villa.

FROG CHARMS

Good luck and prosperity
’ And maybe a prince.

DRIP CANDLES

Atmosphere in a
(.'htam2' bottle.

POSTCARD HUMOR
500 tttilating titles.
Mail them. Frame them.
Get a good laugh.

FISH PENS

Better than rubber ctucktes,
and they write.

caravans

117 W. Nelson Street o464.35()()
Dally lfktm - 6pm 0 Sundays [lam -3pm
UPS to your home or r2_(ﬁne

Available for

Men and Women

 

 NOT A CLOG. IT‘S A

  
 

Lexington Horse & Country
11 W. Washington Street
 Lexington, VA 24450
Downtown

(540) 464-9500

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 199d  PAGE 7

      
      
 

 

   
    

       
   
    
    

 

 
   
 

-0 up‘? "4 enema   
Cf‘? NW3)‘; ‘  MIXED MEDIA
L\.a Roam .
,. __r__ e _e ,‘ by Jack Ohman
4 I K” W 1Don”\’ onoeesmno   1, EX“ 
300 Hnge ME- ‘sf’w“.Z’E3§§"3°§a§‘¥§ 2 -  ‘
Be HATED. 3 ..
3 i if 6   —  ,
‘ ' ::Z- "I | In an ,., —
« Q  mmms  W; B““*°:W;="~~-. 
E ‘ '%’/6"; ""/Z’ »:
a t 
~_IooTu ox: I'M 'E\s'?oe%W3.SPta;ATI7Eo:‘\% 1&0: 6; E 
K TR .300 JOSY ‘ - M. ' U 3 g  '
“°’is‘t‘=E°‘T'”°° I-:‘gEi\E. 5°°o%$a*C1g€5R-’e“§)oDl).I E 5;/’ 
,. ck

  
    
  

   

5%‘?
5%
W
99
I 3 

g l

lull“

 
   

      
      
   

   

   
 
      

       
 

 
 

mug MUST souroameur No.1 Dou‘T unre sou. . UNRECOGNIZED TEL5(oMMuNIcA1IoN$ 1145;; 1pm; AIzeN‘1'
L em 9? JUST AMO 1-M QaALuo1~e-me THATS AW 6009 pI__£A§g or ‘MS 19% CENTURY... M
'‘ '3F6M\\: soulucxre ME. RN20 NoT T0 36 vkAw'° ‘WV Fl“, 8°‘ I stop. GMT . WORKNG’ WNSON
gnu, Imou) Moo , , '
HATE ME. { Tm .
' I’-—-~.
‘ ALEXANDER ' \
1-p.co [ / I
BELL I , -__
lF sou LOVE: ME, W“M?? 5°” 9" ‘°"”"' you KEEP same l l ’> ..

-rm; l§ Io.)SAuE‘. OK! I

Aomn" IT! I HATE 5°” HATE Me'B°T

1 know sou Qeawa
LOVE-. ME

.‘5OU‘LL RDMH‘ HOV
HATE ME.

 

             
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
    

 

    
  

 

2
EX"ER'MENTA" LAUNDRY MI5HAP 1uTu wersurr THoN6 FLYu~Kq NUN £
W0R|<DAY MONDAY Tueeomr WEVNEQVAY nzlomr 3
THEMES E;
 me  3..
TR/\l;TTl0N 0F 3. > g
A "cA9uAL Fl?Il7AYf' _ v °
gﬁ,
‘= ' ; ,
.5 - .
gs 
‘ "§§ '
O l

 

   

Excu€E me, Ml$6...6UT
, .4“-T THAT A W W. e
IN YOUR BEILY BuTT0~.’ ~-

:"‘£“O‘CI"veu‘6‘{J':’9*0( ‘. - . . . . _ . . . . V . . . . . _

  

« HA’MADE You LOOK’  :_ -- ,
(Lb 1:   I ,
,- E __ fr I .
ﬁﬁ‘ :1 ll: "M
A . M, 1.‘  . . ..
W ,. ’ ;Z;
M « —~  I’ I 2:
9 \ 3:2
J) > "’ 3; ' l \ if;
A 
0H, 0H, Yes! j:
THANK6 For: PICKING '°
ON ME!!!
GIlI.lGAN‘$
1* EASTER

ISLAND...

_ 9!P°_w9ll¥¥1.llﬁI1S|G
.uv:aI~vIpsnaa9esIc

(=“l
9 E °x%% WW&Wk&m

\
2

 

 

   

     
 

      
 
 

 

 

    

 

‘ okp wmm {mg , E E .
“"7 TGIF Catalog Outlet 5 5 /{D “J t  :.
. I N“  6 ""  .
, Anniversary Sale , :.
I ; Your Student :3
d S tember 25 : G0 Hungry ::
Now through Mon ay. GP -_- ::
’ t 25% off all denim items, : , :5
Get an ex m L h. ts Coats : Harbs’ Po1nt Card :
pants, blazers, flanne 5 Ir , , : The $100 Mealrricket :i
‘ and outerwear, in addition to our regu— : Redeemable for :.
lar 50-80% discounted euerday. : Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner :3
: For only $90.00 :1
A 17 South Main Street 5 _ _ _ . _ E;
4 463-9 730 : NutrItzoIL;¢;se1glu§f}:Z1C.lsd<g’zggfczaltzes 
l;That's hlm|He’sthe onewho mugged me! 939 a'm' _ 530 pm" Monday through : Hearty Sandwiches&Mexican Entrees 5
l'm almost sure of ill!” ‘ Sat” 7-day : Candlelight Diners 
[ME I . ['
5-8 2-\ ; G1ve Your Student 3
§   Z‘ ; a Homecooked Meal With Our :1
-_« ‘ : Point Card :25
K 5 _I£l.__I;l_)__S_ 
_ . 19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 :3’;
. :3:
L .-
Q-e %_
Former Presidents Ford and Bush head ' b-I0 
‘ off for another round of golf. ﬂ\:2oE°‘,.?.°§;,}'.‘,s°“,{'.,.“‘°$_‘°‘°'‘'‘°'’'''°‘ \\ ‘Q

 

 

PAGE 8

1995-1996 Executive
Committee Unofficial Budget

ORGANIZATION

AIDS Education
Amnesty International
Ariel

Ca/yx

Contact

Emergency Loan
Club Field Hockey
Film Society

Foreign Affairs Club
GLW Literary Society
Habitat for Humanity
independent Union

ALLOCATION

$500.00
$0.00
$3,500.00
$18,500.00
$30,800.00
$911.00
$1,118.20
$4,200.00
$1,360.00
$5,000.00
$4,000.00
$650.00

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 1995

W&L Rated Best Buy by U.S. News

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee was named
U.S. News and World RepOit’s Best
Buy again this year.

The magazine released its list of
best buys this week as a follow up to
last week’s annual college guide. W&L
ranked 15th in the National Liberal
Arts Colleges category.

The Best Buys category was bifur-
cated into Best Buys based on sticker
price with no ﬁnancial aid and Best
Buys with tuition discounted by ﬁnan-
cial aid. W&L’s number one ranking
was in the sticker price category. The

University ranked 21st in the discount
tuition category.

Acting Dean of the College W. Lad
Sessions was pleased to see W&L at
the top of the sticker price list. He also
offered an explanation to why W&L
was 21st on the discounted tuition list.

“W&L is unique in our category
because we do not do tuition discount-
ing,” Sessions said.

Sessions went on to explain that
does not mean W&L gives no financial
aid. He deﬁned “tuition discounting”
as the process of using money from
students paying full tuition to ﬁnance
aid for other students. W&L does not
discount tuition in that manner. In-
stead, all of ﬁnancial aid received by
W&L students comes from

endowents.Sessions also said that tu-
ition discounting has become so com-
monplace at some schools that in order
to raise one dollar for operating ex-
penses, the schools must charge two
dollars in tuition.

“[Therefore] the discounted Best ‘:
Buy school is not the best buy for r“

someone who can afford to pay the
whole tuition,” Sessions said.

That is one of the reasons Sessions
feels the rankings have “assumed too
much importance.” Current students
also said the rankings were not the
deciding factor in choosing a college.
Junior Deborah Zollman said the fact
that W&L is a best buy did not make
her decide to come, although it did
please her father, who gets the bills.

Settie plays the GHQ Friday

international Club
Journal of Science
Leyburn Society

Liberty Hall Volunteers
Minority Students‘ Association
Mock Convention
Political Review
Preston Society

Club Racquetball

Ring Tum Phi

Rugby Club

Student Activities Board
Student Bar Association

$1,000.00
$800.00
$800.00
$850.00
$5,075.00
$30,000.00
$3,500.00
$300.00
$40.00
$2,200.00
$1750.00
$69,000.00
$45,000.00

From
Phi Staff Reports

Settie is an acoustic rock
duo, headed by the talented
Lisette Bellnier. ln just two
years Settie has managed to
become one of the most in
demand performers at col-
leges in the country.

She will be playing in
the General's Headquaters

tonight at 10 p.m. The show
is one of a series sponsored
by Michelle Richardson,
Student Activities Coordi-
nator.

The GHQ Pub was
opened in early September
to offer students an altema-
tive to the typical W&L fare
of fraternity parties.

Settie showcased at the
New England and East Coast
NACA (National Associa-
tion for Campus Activities)
Coffeehouse Festivals.

in 1994 they shined at the

National NACA Conference
in Boston resulting in a na-
tional fall tour of 45 co]-
leges. The fall of 1994 also
brought two more college
showcases at the Upper Mid-
west and New England
NACA Regional Confer-
ences. Now in 1995 they are
showcasing at the South
Central and llliana NACA
Conferences.

Campus Activities Pro-
gramming Magazine re-
views all concur that Settie
is the act to book and re—

book. With incredible ren-
ditions of classic rock tunes ‘.

to today’s most popular 5

songs, coupled with the mes- ’
merizing vocals and electri- -
fying stage presence of
Settie, audiences every-
where are always asking for .

more. Settie’s debut CD on 
Public Records entitled Bob .*

Bit The Fisherman, was re— 2;
leased in the fall of 1994. In 4'

the 1995 fall tour they will - 1.
be performing songs from
theirAlbum “Blackberry” on 7:“

Public Records. -

Club Soccer
Society for Creative Anachronisms

$100.00
$200.00

 

 
 
  
   
 
 
   

 
  
 
 

 

    

 

  
 
  
 
  

 

 

)0 1

 

      
   
        
  

   

  

Society for the Arts 51.30500 A

Club Softball $590.00 

Club Squash 53000 ,5

Trident $1,750.00 

Club Volleyball $750.00 

Women's Forum 51.500 00 

Women & Leadership 53.500 00 

The Student Pavilion 549375.00

E C Reserve $9.000 00

E C. Honor Reserve 54.00000 0

Student Body Working Reserve $15,000.00

rout $319_554.2o
k
L
A
A
x
r

1 Nlediu an 14'” BIZZA C o "
CHEESE & I‘ '1 ()PPI.N.:(3. 
*6 wrrri THIS COUPON _  g The Ring-rum Phl: K
2 Iwedium 14» PIZZAS   " Washington and Lee's best dressed campus
CIIEESE & i TOPPING PUb"°°*|°n
’\6'%\\Q89 yVIl1$l0.93UPo  in o o 0 o o 0000 on o 0
V r<.irl»IlISC N I :OOC COCO OOCCOO C 0 COO OCOOOOU. D '
30 Miiiiite Delivery 5 W’427tg2&P0‘45 E     .
1 o M in in te Pick--iip ; sﬁeedaéychy do 2t«,;amAe4 ; Train and make your first parachute *
£113 A :  and Séadee 5 Jump In one day. Skydive Virginias
4 6 3 7 5 7 5 . ; ; staff has 30+ years instructional expe- _
"'  Z I 9 S. zauclaqéé 3:. E rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-
Hot & Cold Subs — Salads - Dinners - Bcverageoi‘ :  : 
|‘l~EA$EMENTlUN‘!'||lSFl~YER‘Vi|ENPl-ACINGORUKE zooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo '
_ _ A‘

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? VH0: 1gg:‘}_Ligﬁogg?E§ggR¥g§- gggggﬁ 216
.....,,....2:;r.:..°;:.:.':r::".:.'.:'.:.:i:..":.°;:.:.'i;:::::a'.“.:.': Y]<,S! um-ewsa-/msrmmnmcmm   .
°M"C?ig°l;§':r{f;‘;E"*;3"é;5;ﬁ¥JER'j4g’D'ggw*,§‘§3§FE3¥,L:’j Glrdsapproved lrruncdlalcly. 100% GUARANTEED! The Ri,,g.¢um
VISAS and MasterCard0 the man cards you _ Ph”
deserve and need for-— ID-—BO0KS—DEPARTMENT NAME An important part
sMeaos%‘3“‘§t§.T.‘l’T'lé?t’.§Ts*:i‘Ei’§’§¥ft"u"“nA*‘ms_”" °f‘h° daily ‘“°‘- ‘
HO_1‘ELS—~MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS— ADDRESS Contains half as

em
IN‘
G” 6:”
6
was .. oh“ .
Gﬁ '09‘

REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATINGI

SEND rm: coupon room
Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE imniuc!

No turn downs!
No credit checks!
llo security deposit!

'&&—:c&$::&¢‘¢—'u=3=3‘-

CITY __._
PHONE
SlGNA'IURE2

NOTE: Mastacord I1 I registered trademark d Malcﬁhrd lntcmattoml. Inc.
Vlsa Is I rtgl stznd tnidermrk of VISA USA. Inc and VISA International

[:1 IL rms no nrsx coupon roan

S.S."'

STATE __. ZIP

   
     

   
 

much as fat as other
campus publications.

 

  
  

K

PAGE 9

i §'5i»lt%n‘i5‘Es':   .. A

 
  

L llltlm

 

 

Caroline Keen Pete Sorensen

Women’s Soccer wage, P010
Freshman Caroline Keen has been on a rampage The W&L water polo squad shocked many by
§ this past week for the Generals. . _ upsetting Navy, possibly the best team on the East
, Mi  E Keen demolished the W&L single—game points Coast. 16-15, last Saturday in Richmond.
mmii/tiwilli “$§i‘  record ‘last Thursday in a 12-0 walloping of Mary No one General contributed more to the stun-
Baldwin, as she racked up an incredible nine points. ner than junior Pete Sorensen.
Keen scored four goals and assisted on another All Sorensen did was tally nine points. Most of

Buy One 8 02- NO F t to total the nine points, which shattered the record those came from long—distance, as he established
Land O Lakes Sara Lee ¢ previously held by teammates Erica Remeke and a school record by scoring three two-point goals.

.  B ' Michelle Bauman. The _|l.ll1l0l' also played admirable defense. as
DIP & Get One  S...” 91-

As if that wasn't enough, Keen nailed two more he contained Navy's two-meter player.
Th 0 m son ence win at Guilford last Saturday. the Generals’ 13-12 win over Johns Hopkins.

goals and handed out one assist in the 4-1 confer— Sorensen catne back to net two more goals in

 

  
 

   

      

 
AFC American League
East W L PCI‘ East W L PCI‘ GI
Miami 3 0 1.000 x-Boston 81 53 .604 ---
Buffalo 2 1 .667 ~ N.Y. Yankees 71 64 .526 10.5
New England 1 2 .333 e Baltimore 64 72 .471 18
lndianapolis 1 2 .333 Detroit 57 78 .422 24.5
N.Y. Jets 1 2 .333 Toronto 54 81 .400 27.5
Central Central
Cincinnati 2 i .667 x-Cleveland 93 42 .689 ---
Cleveland 2 1 .667 Kansas City 68 66 .507 24.5
Pittsburgh 2 1 .667 Milwaukee 63 71 .470 29.5
Houston 1 2 .333 Chicago W.S. 61 72 .459 31
3   Jacksonville 0 3 .000 Minnesota 51 82 .383 41
I I .
Aned De"c'ousé  ”   Your c3o'BcertA'nft’u’ K weStC't 3 0 1 000 Cal1i:lt'a 72 63 533
. ' ' ‘ : '~ _ ansas iy . I . --
D   3 ., ‘L "  a e Denver 2 1 .667 Seattle 72 63 .533 ---
 T  lb Oakland 2 1 .667 MW  _ Texas as 67 .504 4
' San Diego 2 1 .667 E ' ' " Oakland 67 as .496 5
  Seattle 1 2 .333
NFC National League
East W L PCI‘ East W L PCI‘ GI!
un er Dallas 3 0 1 .000 x-Atlanta 85 50 .630 ---
Arizona 1 2 .333 Philadelphia 66 69 .489 19
Philadelphia 1 2 .333 N.Y. Mets 63 71 .470 21.5
Washington 1 2 .333 Montreal 62 72 .463 22.5
N.Y. Giants 0 3 .000 Florida 61 72 .459 23
Central Central
. Chicago 2 1 .667 Cincinnati 80 54 .597 ---
Green Bay 2 1 .667 Houston 70 64 .522 10
Minnesota 1 2 .333 Chicago 65 68 .489 14.5
Tampa Bay 1 2 .333 St. Louis 59 75 .440 21
Detroit 0 3 .000 Pittsburgh 55 79 .410 25
1  West . West
San Francisco 3 0 1.000 Colorado 72 61 .541 ---
St. Louis 3 0 1.0()0 Los Angeles 71 63 .530 1.5
- Atlanta 2 1 .667 San Diego 65 69 .485 7.5
  F Carolina 0 3 .000 San Francisco 63 70 .474 9
New Orleans 0 3 .000
x - denotes division winner
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS
(Home TEAM IN CAPS) Wiu) Cum RAC:
' Atlanta 27, NEW ORLEANS 24 (OT) AL
St. Louis 31, CAROLINA 10
Cleveland 14, HOUSTON 7 California 72 63 .533 ---
® KANSAS CITY 23, Oakland 17 (OT) Seattle 72 63 .533 ---
GREEN BAY 14, NY. Giants 6 N.Y Yankees 71 64 .526 1
San Diego 27, PHlLADELPHlA 21 Kansas City 68 66 .507 3.5
BUFFALO 20, lndianapolis 14 Texas 68 67 .504 4
Arizona 20, DEl"ROlT 17 Oakland 67 68 .496 5
SAN FRANCISCO 28, New England 3
N.Y. JETS 27, Jacksonville 10 NL
Chicago 25, TAMPA BAY 6
SEATTLE 24. Cincinnati 21 Los Angeles 71 63 .530 ---
DENVER 38, Washington 31 Houston 70 64 .522 1
- Dallas 23, MINNESOTA 17 (OT) Philadelphia 66 69 .489 5.5
2 Liter MIAMI 23, Pittsburgh 10 (Mon.) Chicago c. as as .439 5.5
San Diego 65 69 .485 6

 

‘ . O D - t
ep r ‘e SUNDAY'S GAMES
I Tiiuitsn/tv's GAMES:
' Chicago at st. Louis 1PM NL
ar e New Orleans at N.Y. Giants 1PM Pm-5b|||'8h 3' Chicago C-. H181“

Minnesota at Pittsburgh 1PM N~Y- M¢1S 31 Allin". night

in

   
 

. Washington at Tampa Bay 1PM Florida at Philadelphia, night
a. O S N.Y. Jets at Atlanta 4PM San Diego at LosAngc|es. night
Houston at Cincinnati 4PM Colorado at San Francisco, night

?~

‘ Kansas City at Cleveland 4PM
‘ Denver at San Diego 4PM AL
Arizona at Dallas 4PM Baltimore 13, DETROIT 1
Philadelphia at Oakland 4PM Toronto at N.Y.Yankees. night
9 Green Bay at Jacksonville 8PM V llhzilwaukee at Chicago W.S., night
innesota at Kansas City, night
I i 6 Pk.  Oz.  2 (Open date: Buffalo, lndianapolis, Miami, New England,
' 6 ct. Seattle, Carolina)

Tins wEEK£ND'S GAMES:

Tropicana Season’s B st Super Or Regular 0  cm ggmri‘agotgtgxttgmra-sun
of e 0   San Francisco at Detroit 9PM Cleveland at Kansas City, Fri-Sun
* " T California at Texas, Fri-Sun
J 64 oz.  ct Chicago W.S. at Minnesota, Fri-Mon
. GENERALS’ UPCOMING HOME Detroit at N.Y. Yankees, Fri-Sun
Harris Teeter 00 ca ". sun  SCHEDULE 9/22-9/2.9 Oakland at Seattle, Fri-Sun
S read $1  ' Fri — Sat, 9/22-9/23 Golf in W&L FallClassic Montreal at Atlanta, Fri-Sun
A ‘K   oz,    OZ. Fri - Sun, 9/22~9/24 Men's tennis in Pittsburgh at Chicago C., Fri-Sun
"—_'—“‘ - Rolex Regional, 9:00 AM ‘ Cincinnati at Philadelphia, Fri-Sun
' s u,9/23 F bll .Ct 'Hll st.Lo‘ tii ,F'-S
Prices Effective Through Sept. 26. 1995  at ::‘.:..V2..:: ':.;3 c....:.:z :. 
Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, September 20 Through September 26, 1995 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores Thursday, 9/28 Women's soccer vs. San Diego at Los Angeles, Fri-Sun

4, On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps. K RMWC. 4:00 PM NY. Mets at Florida. Fri-Sun J

 

 

 

Last Week:

Vou.x\'mu.L- Won W&L Invitational, 15-11, 15-5, vs. Randolph-Macon;
W, 15-11, 15-3, 15-1, vs. RMWC;

W, 15-12, 15-6, 5-15, 12-15, 15-11, at Roanoke
Msoocall - W, 5-3, at Catholic; W, 4-1, vs. Emory and Henry
Wsoccxn - W, 4-1, at Guilford; W, 2-0, at I-Iollins
MCnoss COUNTRY - Finished ﬁrst in W&L Invitational
WCnoss Courrrnv - Finished third in W&L Invitational
WA11'.R Pow - W, 16-15, vs. Navy; L, 16-11, vs. Richmond;

W, 13-12, vs. Johns Hopkins at Richmond Invitational

PAGE 10

S

@112 ‘iﬁing-tum iﬂlti

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

This Week:

Vouxvmu. - Wed. at Bridgewater, 6:30 PM

I’-‘oorraau. - Sat. vs. Centre, 1:30 PM §
Msooclut - Sat. at Virginia Wesleyan, 1:00 PM;

Wed. at Guilford, 4:00 PM

Wsoocuz - Thurs. vs. Randolph-P‘ , 4:00 PM

M. WCaoss Comvmv - Sat. at Dickinson Invitational, 10:00 AM

M'l‘aNN1s - Fri.-Sun. in Rolex Regional, 9:00AM

W'I‘:Nms - Fri.-Sun. at JMU Tournament, 9:00 AM

Gour - F ri.-Sat. in W&L Fall Classic ‘

SEPTEMBER 22, 1995

  

w11C1s..t.,card..

    

an sup.

 

: this prayers corn

lie:

 

’ aysff , 
iaiayirtg eat. the ..strins.»
' —Bixt-.b°¢évs°-~.9f one

theiéieiteaieut. ct 
.'I‘1iere;is"f'mai1y=a ‘rea-
son for i1tbase-

 

 

  

conteadtafter dutx:pin_g; ,

high-salaried-’-players dur-
ingtheoffseason,’ piay-, ~
:offf¢v_er.~'  '~ Vi 

WIi.éi€.i$ihe caust£é_;:£_iat11:___‘_,

 
    
     
 
 
 
 

bail. in  beworthi ’
sayings? l«i§‘ef°t;tt1is Wk ’

 

ild Volleyball cruises to

W&L Invitationalwin

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

It has been a week of ﬁrsts for
the Washington and Lee volley-
ball team.

The Generals captured the
W&L Invitational for the ﬁrst
time ever last Saturday by blow-
ing away the competition in the
ﬁve games they played. Then, on
Tuesday, W&L established a
team record for best start ever by
humiliating Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at home.

The Generals wasted no time
making their presence known Sat-
urday afternoon in the ﬁfth an-
nual W&L Invitational.

Afterdispatching its ﬁrst three
opponents of the day, Carnegie
Mellon, Randolph-Macon, and
Catholic, to win the Pool Acham-
pionship, the volleyball squad
rolled into the semiﬁnals against
Lebanon Valley. However, Leba-
non Valley chugged into the semi-
ﬁnal match at full steam too,
sporting an impressive 12-1
record this season.

No problem.

Lebanon Valley put up a good
ﬁght in the ﬁrst game, but fell to
the Generals, 15-10.

Sensing victory, W&L
stormed out of the gates in the
second game, and took an early
advantage. But Lebanon Valley
was not waving the surrender
flag yet, as it fought back to grab
a late 13-12 edge.

Once again, there was no prob-
lem, because it was now Cheryl
Taurassi time.

The senior setter killed Leba-
non Valley’s momentum by forc-
ing a sideout. She followed that
up by serving an ace, enabling
W&L to ease past with a 15-13
triumph, and a ticket to the ﬁnals.

Taurassi ﬁnished the Leba-
non Valley match with 25 assists
to go along with fouraces. Sopho-
more middle blocker Hilary Mar-
tin was also a key factor with her
eleven kills.

The Generals had lost in the
finals of the W&L Invitational
last year, but there would not be
a repeat perfonnance this year.
After holding off Randolph-Ma-
con, 15-11, in the ﬁrst game of
the finals, W&L cruised in the

second game, 15-5, to capture
the tournament title.

Martin again played a huge
role in the victory, totalling up
six kills. Sophomore outside hit-
ter Rebecca Russell and junior
middle blocker Virginia Yoerg
each tacked on ﬁve kills.

Taurassi and Yoerg were both
selected to the all—tournament
team as a result of their efforts.

Yoerg was back in the spot-
light on Tuesday night as the
Generals hosted another
Randolph-Macon squad. This
timetheopponentwas Randolph-
Macon Women’s College, but it
made little difference to Yoerg
and the rest of her teammates, as
they smashed RMWC, 15-11,
15-3, 15-1.

The junior blocked three
shots, lifting her season total to
sixteen, and her career total to
127, which crowns her as the all-
time leader in blocks at Wash-
ington and Lee. Also, Yoerg,
along with Martin, each added
eight kills to their totals during
the match.

The record-breaking victory
gave W&L a perfect 7-0 overall

File Photo

The Generals are off to a record pace in 1995, winning eightstraight games to
begin the year. W&L hopes to overtake last season’s nineteen win plateau.

record on the year, as well as its
first ODAC win.

League victory number two
came in Roanoke Thursday night,
although it was the Generals’ first
struggle of the year.

W&L prevailed in five games,
15-12, 15-6, 5-15,12-15,15-11,
to continue its record start to the

File Photo

The Washington and Lee water polo team stunned Navy this weekend to push its season record to 7-1.

Men remain undefeated
by blasting past E & H

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

So far, the fall athletic squads
at Washington and Lee have had
a memorable season. To that end,
the men’s soccer team is looking
to put itself one step ahead of
everyone else.

With a 4-1 win over Emory
and Henry on Tuesday, the Gen-
erals moved out to a 4-0 record—
the team’s best start since 1964.

In the game, freshman Sam
Chase tallied a pair of goals for
the second straight game as the

 

Generals rolled to victory.

The most recent victims in
this mini-winning streak have
been Marymount University last
Wednesday and Catholic Uni-
versity this past Saturday.

Against Catholic, the Gener-
als played without sophomore
starter Colin Connolly due to a
red card against Marymount.

Following a 3-0 shutout of
Marymount, a game in which
Chase, junior Bill Sigler, and
sophomore Gordon Meeker
scored, the Generals struggled a
little, letting in three goals in the
Catholic game.

The offense more than picked
up the slack, however, and burned
the Catholic defense for five
goals of its own to give the Gen-
erals a 5-3 win.

Once again Sam Chase led
the way, picking up a pair of
goals while sophomore Michael
Germainandseniorslebwofford
and Chad Dobbins scored the
other three goals for the Gener-
als in the contest.

The W&L team next takes
the field against Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday as they
look to improve on a near-per-
fect beginning to the season.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
The men’s soccer squad is off and running at 4-0 after three recent victories.

Men’s Cross Country:

The Generals had the beneﬁt
of playing on their home course
last Saturday, and it paid off as
W&L destroyed the competition
in winning the W&L Invitational.

Six of the first eight runners
across the line were Generals.
Senior Brad Paye was the first to
ﬁnish, capturing his first career
victory in the process. Paye, who
spent last year abroad, showed no
ill-effects with a mark of 27:20.

The underclassmen who car-
ried the Generals to an ODAC
championship last season were
right behind him. Sophomore Ja-
son Callen ﬁnished second in a
time of 27:46, and freshman Andy
May dashed in fourth in 28:17,
the best time of his career.

Sophomores Will Olson, Greg
Ruthig, and Taylor Shultz, ﬁn-
ished sixth, seventh, and eighth,
respectively, for the Generals.

W&L travels to Carlisle, Penn-
sylvania, this weekend to partici-
pate in the Dickinson Open, a meet
which the Generals ﬁnished sec-
ond at last season.

Women’s Cross Country:

Josephine Schaeffer wasn’t at
her personal best last weekend in
the W&L Invitational. But then
again, she didn’t have to be.

The senior outran the other
participants in a time of 19:03,
which earned her ﬁrst place by
more than two and a half minutes.

K Led by Schaeffer, the Generals

season at 8-0 overall.

Yoerg continued her defen-
sive domination as she notched
20 kills, including the match-
winner. Martin was on target
again with 12 kills, fourof those
coming in the ﬁnal game.

Taurassi piled up a season-
high 35 assists during the match.

The senior also scored four aces

to help the Generals survive. (‘

With nine returning
letterwinners from 1994, the Gen-
erals will continue their assault
on last season’s school-record
nineteen victories when they em-
bark on a journey up to '
Bridgewater on Wednesday.

Generals beat ~

ranked Navy

in Richmond

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

 

The Washington and Lee water polo team proved why they are q
a perennial east coast power as they turned in a 2-1 record at the

Richmond Invitational.

Record aside, the keystone of the weekend was a 16-15 last-
second upset over one of the top water polo squads on the east coast.

Navy led by one at 15-14 when junior James Silberstein was
fouled in the hole with one second left on the clock. He then found
senior Rich Cober outside the two point line.

Cober put the ball in the net and sealed the deal for the Washing-

ton and Lee squad.

For the game, however, junior Pete Sorenson was the catalyst.

Sorenson racked up nine points in the contest, including three two
point goals. For his offensive and defensive efforts on the weekend,
Sorensen earned Athlete of the Week honors.

The only blotch on the weekend, and of the season thus far, was
a 16-11 loss at the hands of host Richmond the following day.

The Generals responded to take the late contest against Johns

Hopkins, 13-12.

In the game against Hopkins, Silberstein led the squad with ﬁve

_ goals while Sorenson tallied two more.

In his first major water polo tournament, sophomore Jacob
Garrett held his own, keeping the Generals close in all three games.
The 7-1 Washington and Lee squad next takes action as they host
the Eastern Water Polo Association Tournament at Twombly Pool

next weekend.

placed third in the rain-drenched
meet, trailing only Dickinson
and Frostburg.

Sophomore Carson Flowers
was the next General to cross
the line, as she came in ninth.
Freshman Greta Richter ﬁn-
ished 15th, and seniorCatherine
Cardullo was next in 16th. It
was Cardullo’s best race ever.

W&L will get a chance for
revenge this weekend against

  

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi
Photo Editor

Women’s soccer has

dashed to a 4-1 mark.

Dickinson, when they both will
compete in the Dickinson Open.

Women’s Soccer:

The Generals capped off a
strong week with two more vic-
tories to pad their record to 4-1.

The Generals travelled down

 

 

to Guilford on Saturday, where
they stopped a tough Quakers
team, 4-1.

Keen and Bauman each
notched goals in the ﬁrst half to
give W&L a 2-0 advantage. After
Guilford got on the board early in
the second half, freshman Karin »
Treese scored a goal, and Keen ’
kicked home her second, as the
Generals steamrolled away with
the triumph.

The Generals next went to
Hollins, where W&L scored a 2-
0 whitewashing on Wednesday.

W&L gets its next chance to
improve on its 4-1 record when
they battle Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at home this
coming Thursday.

Football:

The Generals will ﬁnally play
their ﬁrst home football game this
Saturday, as they will attempt to
stop Centre in the Hall of Fame
Game at Wilson Field.

W&L fell to Centre last year in
Danville, Kentucky, 17-0. The
Generals trail the all-time series,
30-15-1, since the two teams’ ﬁrst
meeting in 1897.

Four memberswill be inducted
into the W&L Athletic Hall of
Fame tonight. Football will have
two representatives in the late Lee
McLaughlin, the head coach from
1957-1967, and all-time leading
receiver Tony Perry. Also enter-
ing will be swimming All-Ameri-
can Mike Bemot, and lacrosse

k

.’.

All-American Sam Englehart. J

