 
 
  
  
 

I

 

 

    
     
 
 

  - tows iaiheaos
Mosﬂy"st;nny.' ‘ I
j  from‘

   

 
 

 

' .Q“'E\""lt.‘ .l..lEI-IARY
. Luz: UNIVEFISITY
<:ilON. VA 24450

  
 

 

1985-1995:

BREAKING THE  
GLASS CEILING 9

Women’: tennis

still perfect  ®

Uh ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

U!

3?

VOLUME .96, NO. 17

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The Middle Ages the way they were meant to be

Contributed by M. Milagros Daly

 

The Society for Creative Anachronisms, which reenacts the dress and excitement of the Middle Ages, held a
mini-event at the Pavillion on Saturday.

   

(.

1

BY KERI ANNE DUNPHY
Phi Staff Writer

Last Thursday marked the convocation of
W&L’s Pi Beta Kappa Chapter, Gamma of Vir-

I ginia. Twenty-nine seniors and 12 juniors were

elected to join the 15 current seniors who, having
been inducted in their junior year, are already
members.

To achieve Pi Beta Kappa election, students
must have both “outstanding character and superior
academic records.” As a junior, this means having
a GPA at summa cum laude standing—a 3.80 or
higher.

Dr. Jarrad, Professor of Psychology and presi-
dent of the W&L chapter, introduced the keynote
speaker, Dr. Paul R. McHugh, Professor of Psy-
chiatry at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
McHugh, a graduate of Harvard College and Medi-
cal School, gave a lecture entitled “Consciousness
Revisited.”

McHugh ’s lecture addressed the so-called “mind-
brain” problem that pervades modern psychology.

Basically the problem is that we don’t know
what exactly consciousness is. That .is, we know
what we mean when we refer to consciousness;
McHugh explains that we recognize it as “subjec-
tive experience of our thoughts, feelings...the pain-
fulness of pain, the realness of real...ultimately the
me-ness of me.”

He says that “consciousness is the most imme-
diate of our experiences...[we are] more conscious
of ‘me’ than of anything else.” This consciousness,
however, somehow escapes explanations.

We do know, from various experiments and
tests, that it is a product of the brain, but just how the
brain is sufﬁcient enough to infer the subjective-
ness of experience remains a mystery. This is the
essence of the mind—brain problem.

The implications and importance of this prob-
lem differ in different branches of psychology. The
two main branches, neurosurgeons and therapists,
disagree on the relative importance of the problem.

The neurosurgeons, with a tendency to reduce
the “mind” to merely the brain, are suspicious of the
prtoblem, fearing that viewing the “mind” as any-

thing other than the brain introduces ghosts—the
infamous homunculus. This is anathema.

The clinical psychologists, however, hold that the
thing we call consciousness is untrustworthy in that
its contents are, or can become, distorted, ultimately
resulting in a false reflection of the truth. These

« 0
Speaker explains consciousness

this consciousness, compels us to see the truth.
McHugh quoted the seal of John Hopkins which
reads, “You shall know the truth and the truth
shall set you free.” The new Pi Beta Kappa
inductees are among the most outstanding in this
search for truth.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 15, 1996

Pornography sparks
heated debate at W&L

BY MICHAEL Hawusrr
Phi Associate Editor

For about two hours Tuesday, Wash-
ington and Lee University students and
faculty members debated, sometimes
hotly, the issue of pornography and
individual freedom.

The program, which was sponsored
by the Society for the Arts, included an
hour-long video called “Patently Of-
fensive: Porn Under Seige” that ex-
plored this controversal issue. After
the video, Associate Professor of Jour-
nalism Brian Richardson, Professor of
Law Randall Bezanson, Assistant Pro-
fessor of Religion Winifred Sullivan,
Assistant Professor of Art George Bent,
Justine LaMont ‘96, and Julie Doring
‘96 responded to the film.

Richardson started the discussion
by holding up a printout of a down-
loaded advertisement for sexually ex-
plicit videos off the net. The problem
he had was the definition of pomogra-
phy and who defines what is offensive
and what is not.

“The problem with freedom of ex-
pression is that I have to deal with
every nutcase’s definition of erotica.”

You also have to deal with the idea
of control that says you can’t see some-
thing because it is deemed offensive,
he argued. The question is where do
you draw the line, he said.

Sullivan said that to watch these
images in the film was to feel violated
as a woman, but she also had problems
with the film’s failure to make distinc-
tions between mainstream films and
hardcore porn. She also argued that the
film sets up a strict dichotomy between
women and men and portrays women
as victims.

Doring saw the problems of deﬁn-
ing community standards and not know-
ing how to stop the pornography.

Bezanson said he was most inter-
ested by the feminist critique of por-
nography that argues the increased ex-
posure by men to violent sexual images
of women leads to a legitimation of
certain behaviors by men toward
women.

I_aMont said she felt depressed af-
ter she saw the film by herself the first
time.

“I thought, ‘It sucks to be a
woman’,”she said.

But after she thought about it, she
said there needed to be a distinction
between men who can separate the
images he sees and reality and those
men who do not.

One student argued that community
standards usually hurt individual rights
and objected to the idea that ‘watching
pornography necessarily means that
one is sexist or disrespects women.

Awomaninthe audience responded
that she is simply tired of being seen as
a sexual object by men, and she said
she fears that men who watch pomo-

, graphic material might be more likely
to think that way.

Sullivan agreed.

“The women who are the victims
are the second hand victims who must
deal with men who have certain images
of women.”

Bent argued that economic forces
must’ be dealt with and that images are
more powerful than words.

“Everyone is virtual literate. Im-
ages are always struck down first.”

Still most agreed that pornography
represents the ultimate tension between
free speech and the toleration of what
many argue are dangerous and destruc-
tive images of women.

Journalists to talk
ethics in Roanoke

From Phi Staff Reports

Bill Kovach, curator of the N ieman
Foundation for Journalism at Harvard
University, will present a lecture, “Tom
Carlson or His Dog,” at Washington
and Lee University’s Journalism Eth-
ics Institute at the Hotel Roanoke on
Friday, March 15, at 5 p.m.

This year the Journalism Ethics In-

illusions, they
claim, are the cre-
ationsofself-serv-
ingwishes and de-
sires. The mes-
sage of reality,
then, is not clear
as the neuroscien-
tists claim, but
rather a distortion.

Both sides,
however, ignore
the fundamental
issue of con-
sciousness: what
brings it to life. - ---- 2 "

This question ‘
is, for now, un-
answered. The
implications of
what conscious-
ness is, how-
ever, are far-
reaching.

M c H u g h
claims that con-
sciousness intro-
duces freedom,
that “radical, fun-
damental deﬁning
aspect of our be-
ing” into our na-
ture. Human be-
ingsare,by nature,
free. Itisthis free-

dom that allows us
to see the implica-
tions of our ac-

 

Never fear...Spring is almost here!

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

tions, thus allow-
ing us to be brave,
courageous, or
even just us.
This freedom,

With the disappearance of_ snow and the recent stretch of warmer weather, we are reminded
that spring is coming. The season officially begins March 20.

stitute will be held at the Hotel Roanoke
in conjunction with a regional meeting
of the Association for_ Education in
Journalism and Mass Communication
in Roanoke. The public is invited to
attend.

Kovach, a member of the Nieman
Class of 1988-89, is former editor of
the Atlanta Journal and Constitution
and former Washington bureau chief
of The New York Times. During his
tenure in Atlanta, the Atlanta Journal
and Constitution newspapers were
nominated for seven Pulitzer Prizes
and received one each year.

Prior to that, Kovach had a distin-
guished two-decade career with The
New York Times as an editor and re-
porter. From 1978-86, he served as
chief of The Times’ Washington bu-
reau. Before joining The Times,
Kovach was a reporter for six years
with The (Nashville) Tennessean where
he covered Appalachian poverty, the
civil rights movement, and Southern
politics. He began his career at the
Johnson City (Tenn) Press-Chronicle.

Kovach was awarded the New York
State Bar Association Award in 1968,
the Society of the Silurians Award for
spot news writing in 1969, and the
National Mental Health Association
Bell Award in 1965. he is a member of
the board of directors of National Pub-
lic Radio, and is on the advisory board
of the International Media Fund; the
20th Century Fund Task Force on Presi-
dential Debates; the International
Women’s Media Foundation; the War-
saw Journalism Center Foundation; the
Committee to Protect Journalists; the
James Agee Film Project; Africa News;
the Encyclopedia of the Appalachians;
the television program Frontline; the
Knight Program for Specialized Jour-
nalism at the University of Maryland;
as well as other journalism programs.

The Journalism Ethics Institute is
part of Washington and Lee’s program
in applied ethics, society and the pro-
fessions. The Institute brings nation-
ally recognized scholars to the campus
each year to engage in an intensive
schedule of seminars with undergradu-
ate students and visiting practitioners
in the ﬁeld ofjournalism ethics.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Scottish children, teacher

shot by former scout leader

Dunblane, Scotland—‘Sixteen kindergartners and their teacher were
killed Tuesday when a fonner boy scout leader stormed their school,
shooting first the children and then himself.

The man, identiﬁed by police as Thomas Hamilton, was carrying four
handguns for which he had a permit, although he had been investigated
numerous times for charges of child abuse and child pornography. Twenty
years ago, Hamilton was also dismissed as a scout leader because of
allegations that he conducted himself improperly with the young boys.

Hamilton had recently expressed his anger concerning his dismissal in
a letter to Queen Elizabeth; however, police say that they have not yet
established his motive for the mass killing.

Abdul-Rauf fined for breaking
NBA rule regarding anthem

Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets is losing $31,707 per
game missed for his violation of NBA policy which states that all players
must stand in an orderly fashion for the playing of the National Anthem.

Abdul-Rauf, a devout Muslim, insists that standing for the Anthem is
against the principles of the Koran which he says ban nationalistic
ceremony.

Critics, including other Muslim NBA players, say that the Koran
requires respect for national symbols, and that it forbids only the worship
of such symbols. Officials also maintain that Abdul-Rauf’s suspension
without pay is a matter not of religion, but of adherence to league rules. The
suspension will remain in effect until Abdul-Rauf expresses his willing-
ness to comply with the league requirements.

Clinton hosts summit of world

leaders in search of peace

Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt—Along with Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak, President Clinton hosted a summit of world leaders Wednesday
in order to establish a new mood of peace for the Arab world.

All those attending, including the leaders of Arab countries, expressed
their grief at the tragic suicide bombings in Israel. Many leaders also called
for an effort by the summit to locate the terrorist group, Hamas, which is
being held responsible for the bombings, and to send a ﬁrm message to all
countries that the age of terrorism is over.

Arab leaders, however, also expressed their concern that Israel will
punish innocent Palestinians within its borders for the workings of the
Palestinian terrorist group, and warned that such action on the part of the
Israelis will not be taken lightly.

Beyond the Blue‘Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

GOP WATCH

 

Editor’s Note: GOP Watch will con-
tinue to appear until a Republican presi-
dential candidate is chosen, in order for
students to compare the results of the
Mock Convention with the results of the
Republican primaries.

Forbes withdraws from race

Steve Forbes formally announced his withdrawal from the race for the
Republican presidential nomination on Thursday. Forbes had originally
planned to stay in the race until next week’s Midwestern primaries. Forbes
endorsed front-runner Bob Dole and urged Dole toadopt his ﬂat tax plan.
In the end, Forbes has collected 71 delegates, less than 10% of the 996
needed to win the nomination, and spent $25M and $30M of his own
money.

Dole sweeps Super Tuesday

Bob Dole won a commanding victory over Pat Buchanan and Steve
Forbes in Tuesday’s Super Tuesday primaries in 7 states, which included
Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Tennessee, Oregon, Oklahoma, and Missis-
sippi. With the gain of 345 delegates on Tuesday, Bob Dole has virtually
locked up the Republican presidential nomination. Analysts have pre-
dicted that Dole will reach the needed number of delegates on March 26
with the California, Nevada and Washington primaries, if the race contin-
ues without any major controversies. Dole stated on Tuesday, “Today the
American people in seven states chose the conservative they want to lead
America, chose the conservative that they want in the White House, and all
seven states chose Bob Dole...The only Tuesday that is going to be more
super than this is Tuesday, November 5.”

Buchanan threatens to run as

a third party candidate

In Toledo, Ohio, conservative commentator Pat Buchanan sent a clear
message to Sen. Robert Dole (R-Kan.) and the GOP establishment: keep
up the insults and I might spoil your party next fall. “If they keep slamming
the door in your face and they tell your people you don’t want them, then
you’ve got to think about what you’re going to do?” What people fear he
might do is bolt the GOP and mount a third party candidacy, which might
hurt the Dole campaign and divide the Republican Party. Still, he still
maintains his loyalty to the party.

GOP Watch is compiled
by Laura Knapp

BY MANDY STALLARD
Special to the Phi

So you thought you had fun at Mardi
Gras? You should have seen the par-
ties in Managua! Wild parties, drunken
nights, and good times are what col-
lege is all about.

Most W&L students, not wanting to
break the tradition just because school
is out, flee to hot spots like Cancun or
the Bahamas for break.

One daring new professor, Cathy
Cuppett, and our group of 15 W&L
students managed to forego this cus-
tomary wild week in order to do some-
thing “better” over February break.
Taking the reigns of responsibility, J enn
Beam and Dave Foster led our group of
“brigadistas” to Nicaragua for some
crazy times of our own.

“So what’s the night life like in
Nicaragua?” you may be asking, as did
one freshman brigadista, Sam Levine.

After spending some time in a night-
club in Managua, Nicaragua’s capital,
sophomore Stefan Neumeister can tell
you about his experiences with a former
Miss Nicaragua.

Race Cannon can show you some
dance moves he learned to such

Wild nights in Ilicaragua,

The Rin -tum Phi March 15 1996

 

P

wonderful sources of just about any-
thing you could need, which became
important to us after five days of not

We were fortunate to have time to
spend “seeing the sights”, visiting the
beach, and were rewarded with a
beautiful sland excursion at the end
of the trip.

was not in Manic Managua, however,
but in the peaceful Acedades. We drove
into the little town, where eager chil-
dren awaited to catch sight of the “grin-

what we could offer their impover-
ished town. We came as more than just
visitors. We came as “amigos” and
“hermanos” that lived as they lived, ate
what they ate (rice and beans), slept
under their serene stars, awoke when
they awoke (to roosters with no con-

 

Nicaraguan favorites as “We Ain’t
Gonna Take It” and “Pour Some
Sugar on Me.”

I, myself, can tell you about 38-
year-old men who like blondes.

Although fun and excitement
permeated our trip throughout, what
most of us would rather tell you about
is what we did there and what it

One 7//n/imifecl janning - $40.00

cept of time), and did for them as much
as we were able. We worked hard all
day, helping to build a lavandero and a
school. We made friends and memo-
ries to last a lifetime.

The impression of the children, with
their beaming innocent smiles and
malnourished little bodies, will remain
imprinted on our minds forever.

The goodness of the people, their
sense of community, and the happiness
they held in their hearts despite their
situation will remain permanently in
our hearts as well.

The excitement of the trip may fade
over time, but our memories and the

meant to us.

Nicaragua has always been a hot
bed of excitement, following years of
military dictatorship and revolution.
The world will be watching this presi-
dential year to see if a new government
can-take over peacefully so that stabil-
ity may finally be established.

The instability and poverty we found
in Nicaragua are common among such
Third World nations, but we’re quite a
shock to us. Americans can’t quite
grasp the concept of hotels with barbed
wire, attack dogs, and guards carrying
AK 47’s. Despite these few foreboding
aspects, however, we found Managua
beautiful and welcoming.

The Managuan markets are an ex-
citing world unto themselves, as you
try to haggle in a language you can
barely understand. The markets are

will not. I may get to Mardi Gras on’
these breaks, and have a wonde
time, but this trip will remain the mo '
meaningful and important experience
of my life.

 

having our luggage. .,(

The most memorable part of the trip’

gos” and adults waited patiently to see+

impact we had on theirtiny communit M

V

up

I

V

TEACH ENGLISH IN KOREA Positions available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. U5 $i8,500—25,400/yr. Accomodatiori & rourid-trip

  
 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
. *— '.'_

   

Go Hungry

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

   
 

   

  

iiiestaurant and
9{o65ie’5 Lounge

e 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center
Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to ?
Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:30 p.m.

7

   

 

. airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma and copy of passport to: ‘S
7/”""""‘ Bok Ji Coprporatiori, Chum Bang Bldg, 15445 Samsurig Dong, Karig Nam Gu,
7 1 gulh gielﬁrréon .S)lree[, ollexinglon 5COUl, KOV58  .
4639388 TEL: on-s2-2—sss—.JoBs(se27) FAX: Oll~&2-2—552—4FAX(4529)
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Y
mnowaae SYORES "’
)
D0” t Let Hardware, Paint, and Related Items 
Your Student Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. I “
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

coon
WEEKLY
INCOME  
processing mail for
national company! Free
su plies. postage! No
se ling! Bonuses! Start
immediate! l Genuine
opportunity! shS.A.S.  
GHC. SUITE 216
1861 mrmmnnr. -  
oI.I.‘1HooD.FI. 3302  

 

mt, ._ ..r

 

“The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 

Page 3

TARAH GRANT

., PHI STAFF REPORTER

Coeducation has been an exciting topic of
conversation in Lexington this year. In this
week’s issue of The Washington Post Maga-

V zine journalist Liza Mundy suggests that VMI

peer over their obstinate walls at its neighbor
Washington and Lee University. While VMI
continues to debate the admission of women,
W&L is amidst a celebration of the ﬁrst decade

,( of coeducation.

In charge of this celebration is Decade, a
group of women students, faculty, and admin-
istration.

“The purpose of Decade is to celebrate that
we have been coeducated for ten years and also
to recognize the contribution coeducation has
made to the campus,” said senior Kelly del
Campo, a member of the Decade Steering Com-
mittee.

The positive effect coeducation has had on

if the university is clearly evident in admission

trends. Ten years ago, W&L admitted 60% of

its applicants; 45% of those students were ranked

‘the ﬁrst quintile of their high school class.

. st year, W&L had a 29% acceptance rate and

4» 0% of those students were ranked in the ﬁrst

‘ quintile. Several college guide books describe

W&L as progressing from the “Best Kept Se-

cret of the South” to one of the most prestigious
schools in the nation.

But coeducation did much more than raise

"I admission standards. “What it really did was

give a necessary dimension to our university,”

~Chan,
master
«of pain
Rumbles
to U.S.
theaters

‘IIIIIIIIIII

prize as an incentive. The winner will be
chosen not necessarily on talent but on popular

appeal.”
Decade is also looking into the possibility of

said Professor Russell Knudson who is now in
his third decade of teaching at W&L.

“It brought in different ways of thinking,
different perspectives, and different points of
view. The campus was terribly monochro-
matic before and coeducation brought an en-
ergy, the kind of energy that comes from
diversity.”

When planning a calendar of events for the
Decade celebration, the steering committee
wanted to highlight this diversity and show
how women have contributed to all aspects of
university life.

to a Decade fund that will establish a $250
award to be presented to a rising junior each
year.

Selected by co-ed panel of student lead-
ers, the recipient will be a female student
who demonstrates excellence in academics
and extracurricular activities and inspires
leadership in others.

Some female students believe that the
award is one of the only positive aspects of
the Decade celebration because it is recog-
nizing women’s academic achievements.
“The Decade Committee seems to be illus-

[n_]anuary’[he De- trating that women’s
cade committee pre— m3}fl C0F_1C9TnS are
pared a library display their physical appear-
case on women in ath- ance and social activi-
1etics_ ties,” said Rachel

This monththere is G0ddU- _

a display of artwork 5heP°1“t5°“th°W

by university women
on the second ﬂoor.

Decade also sponsored several female guest
lecturers and performers for the GHQ.

Currently, Decade is planning a Battle of
the Bands which will be held in conjunction
with the spring carnival on May 24.

“We wanted to plan an activity that the
entire student body would enjoy,” explained
Junior Megan Flohr who is in charge of the
Battle of the Bands competition.

“We had initially thought about reviving
confetti’s, which were what the ﬁrst class of
women called the co-ed parties that they orga-
nized, but there were problems concerning fund-
in .
gThe low cost of sponsoring a Battle of the
Bands will allow us to offer a substantial cash

sponsoring a “kissing booth” at the spring car-
nival.

Money collected from these events, as well
as on-going T-shirt and bake sales, contributes

KURT SUsoNG
PHI MoviE REviEwER

Rumble in the Bronx-79i"kﬁ'

Rumble in the Bronx is Jackie Chan’s latest attempt to jump into the American market. After
a few failed ﬁlms in the eighties, this mega-star from the East decided to try once again. Like
another Hong Kong export, John Woo, he is likely to fare much better the second time around.

Chan plays Keung, who has just come across the Paciﬁc to New York for his uncle’s marriage.
But his uncle is also selling his grocery store in the Bronx to a successful Asian businesswomen,
Elaine (Anita Mui), so Keung decides to stay around and help her transition into the business. This
being the Bronx, Keung soon enough gets caught up in some gang warfare and stolen diamonds,
all while befriending a crippled boy and his attractive older sister Nancy (Francoise Yip).

The plot is a horrid mishmash of ideas, running in several different directions at once. At the
same time, the characters are absurd caricatures and stereotypes, most of them not interesting in
the slightest. But who cares?

To be fair, Rumble in the Bronx is the type of film that movie reviewers and ﬁlm critics have
absolutely no business talking about. This movie could care less about character development,
plot twists, camera angles or realistic dialogue. It has one purpose and one purpose only: to let
Jackie Chan amaze us.

Luckily, it does this very well. This ﬁlm is all about Jackie Chan’s incredible athleticism and
the ﬁght choreography which demonstrates this superbly. Action stars come in a wide range of
types: Van Damme uses a dancer’s quickness and grace, but Wesley Snipes relies upon pure,
animalistic power and force.

Jackie Chan is simply in a league all his own. He is more impressive than any of them, while
moreover being unexpectedly clever. When you consider that he does all his own stunts, it would
also be fair to call him braver than the rest of his American colleagues.

In fact, be sure you sit through the credits at the end of the film, where out-takes show all the

failed stunts. In some of them Chan seriously hurts himself, and many people are carried of the -

set in stretchers. Apparently he acted in much of the film with a broken foot in a cast.

#6

several of the events

on the Decade calen-
dar deal with eating, cooking, ad exercise an
how the T-shirt design is a picture of women
at a party.

In response to opinions such as this and
comments that the Decade events seem to
celebrate women rather than coeducation,
the Decade Committee sent out a newsletter
to faculty and administration last week ask-
ing for ideas on other activities to include.

“Members from Women and Leader-
ship, Women’s Forum, and Panhellenic have
planned the event but it celebrates everyone
and we want to include other organizations
as well,” said del Campo.

The coeducation celebration is not just
about women. It is about W&L.

Celebrate coeducation

He Said...

“Better Coeds than Dead-
heads.”
--Banner at the 1984 Mock
Democratic
Convention

“Most girls are going to enroll
here becaue this is Where the boys
are.”

--W&L Professor

“Women are the most beautiful
things God put on earth, but they’re
so much messier than men.”

--Big “John” Alexander W&L
custodian.

“I will truly miss the mystical
all-male quality of W&L, but I am
confident that admitting women is
a postiive move, and one that will
make W&L a stronger institution
in the future.”

—Co1e Dawson 1984 student

But more than action, this ﬁlm is also part comedy. Jackie Chan combines tremendous agility

 

with humor and light——heartedness of physical comedian. Numerous reviewers have pointed out
that he has more in common with Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin than with Van Damme or
Steven Seagal, and I would completely agree. He is not afraid to lighte the tension of a violent
sequence by ﬁghting with all sorts of silly objects, from exploding mustard bottles to refrigerator
doors.

Although I am completely willing to dismiss Rumble in the Bronx's disastrous plot and
character, there is one terrible mistake which is too obvious to let go unmentioned. The ﬁlm
supposedly takes place in New York, but it was actually ﬁlmed in British Columbia to cut costs.
The result is that the location looks nothing like New York at all.

In several sequences, we can see towering mountain ranges in the background, followed by a
distant shot of the Manhattan skyline to remind us where this is suppose to occur. Oddly enough,
there is nothing particularly important about setting the ﬁlm in the Bronx; it is completely
incidental to the action of the ﬁlm. A'Ithough‘Ri'4mb‘le in Vancouver'l'acks some of the punch, it ;
would have been a much less perplexing title. I

On the whole, Rumble in the Bronx is not going to win any Oscars. But it doesn’t want to,
anyhow. This ﬁlm is simply a lot fun, and at the heart of it is Jackie Chan’s dynamic personality
and excellent ﬂair for action sequences. Rumble in the Bronx bodes well for the future of Jackie
Chan’s American career.

ﬁﬁﬁﬁ-Go by this as soon as it comes out on video.
It is an instant classic. “You’ll laugh; you’ll cry; and
maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about your-
self.”

75757}-Go see this ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big
screen. It’s woi1h a few Oscar nominations and the
seven bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington.
Overall, “Better than Cats!”

7375'-Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms. Neverthe-
less, it is a good exgmple of its genre, and you should

probably see it on videotape. Still, probably “Better tharj
Cats!”

SQ’-It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off
tomorrow’sreading. Although your time would probably
be better served on your education, its free and you’re
bored, so go ahead and watch it.
0-Even if its free and your best friend said he never

laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks. Don’t waste your
time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (There’s always

MTV)

The teenage movies that Larry Clark really grew up with
always struck him as curiously ﬁctional. “They never used
kids the right age, always actors playing younger. They
make it a happy ending, or do something that doesn’t ring

,3 true,” Clark recalls. “It’s never real.”

In his directories debut, Larry Clark has indeed deﬁed the
pattern of movies past — employing a host of actors barely
past adolescence, ensuring an all but happily ever after
ending — and just how “real” the resulting motion picture
Kids is remains for its viewer to decide.

Certainly the movie is based very solidly upon the grim
adolescence the American inner city now offers its young.

“This is a story that has to be written from the inside,”
Clark decided when first considering the project that has
produced Kids. “It needs to be written by a kid.”

4 And so to a kid he turned, to one Harmony Korine, whom

he had met while practicing his skateboarding technique in
Manhattan’s Washington Square Park.
Korine had introduced himself to Clark as a filmmaker
and a writer, with a 35 page screenplay behind him, and he
. now found himself presented with the challenge of capturing
in print the young world of the American city.
“I ’ve been waiting all my life to write this story,” Korine
told Clark as he undertook the project.
Three weeks later, the script was ﬁnished. Clark received
the work with excitement, meanwhile, ﬁnding in the very

V same park in which he and Korine had first met kids who

seemed perfect for the parts the script created.
A year’s setback followed, however, as the forces of

able to get the ﬁlm I wanted.”

The ﬁlm that stems from Clark’s steadfast belief is a
ﬁctional drama covering 24 compelling, violent, powerful
and yet typical hours in the everyday lives of four teenagers

 

V.
4
,, producers Gus Van Sant, Michael ambers and Patrick KIDS
CINDIE YOUNG I’/anilzlarellaa Ed co-£rlpduc_e:'(s lCatpy Kograda Christine ***1/2
ac an an uren aznic s ow y com me .
PHI FEATURES EDITOR Some 75 kids were eventually were assembled to act
within the movie, with a core cast of about 40 actors. SCALE;
“I always wanted to make the teenage movie that I felt “I know what I was doing because I know what I wanted
8' America never made,” director Larry Clark admits. the ﬁlm to be,” Clark says, “and I just believed I would be ****

Like, orgasmic

and the circles within which they move. *,§*

The ﬁlm is so convincing that the audience member
might well forgetwhat the are watchin is not actuall real.

“Some people ask me if Kids is a dgocumentary. yThey Pretty good
can’t believe it’s scripted and acted, but it is,” Clark says.

If the movie itself is engaging, its power lies not just as **1/2
much in the reﬂection it provokes in its audience.

The controversy that has surrounded this movie, earning I511’: ANYTHING
it an NC-17 rating amidst a storm of praise and criticism.

All this talk doesn’t really upset Clark, though. “Maybe else playing?
it will start a dialog, you know. That would be good,
between parents and their kids. Maybe they’ll talk about ‘kﬁ

some things that, you know, maybe they don’t normally talk
about.”
If nothing else, Kids promises much to consider.
“These kids aren’t stylish, pretty or terribly expressive,”

Not recommended

critic Janet Maslin writes. “But they are frighteningly *7

familiar. You could ﬁnd their counterparts on any New _

York comer, and if you see Kids, you’ll never look at them Insulting

in the same way again.”

The SAB will present Kids Friday, March 15, and N0 STARS

Saturday, March 16, in the Troubadour Theater; there will

be a 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. showing both nights. Entrance will be PURE CRAP

free, but seating will be limited.

ALEX CHRISTENSEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

Kids is probably the hardest-to-review ﬁlm of
the year. It’s hard because Kids aspires to a lot by
exploring the lives of some New York kids who
are especially repellent. You can’t like them. You
can barely sympathize with them.

It’s easy to say that that is the whole point of the
ﬁlm, but it’s too easy. In this explanation, the
makers ofKr'ds, Larry Clark, a photographer turned
director, and Harmony Korine, the screenwriter
who wrote the ﬁlm while not yet out of high
school, are showing us this ﬁlm to show us that our
society is creatingthese people who have no moral
center, no concept of the future, no reason to act
like anything other than the animals they treat
others as.

It’s an absolute trip to hell. I have also been
sayingthat I would never want to see itagain, since
it was so jarring and repulsive. But lately I have
begun to reconsider the part about never seeing it
again. I have realized that these kids are not just
characters in a cheap, documentary-style morality
tale, but they get under your skin after a time.

Telly, played by Leo Fitzpatrick, who also
contributed to the storyline, is an unforgivably
horrible kid, no one you’d want to know, but after
seeing the ﬁlm, you feel you do know him. It’s
unpleasant that you could get to know someone
like that so well. It’s fun escapism when it’s
Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter. But when
Clark and Fitzpatrick show you the inner workings
of Telly, you can’t just stop shuddering when you

 

e makin ..........The movie

step out of the theater and go have ice cream (or,
like, Kool Aid). It’s not a fun, icy scare, but a deep,
chest-centered, emotional reaction.

Justin Pierce as Casper, Telly’s friend, is a lost
kid. He seems to have the feelingthat he’s missing
the party, and we want to tell himthat this is just the
best party to miss that there ever will be, but in the
end, there’s no other direction for him to go. I
mean, there is, of course. Anyone could tell you
what it is. But there are no signiﬁers in Casper’s
life that would give him the hint. He probably
wouldn’t take it anyway. So why is he the most
likable character in the ﬁlm (besides the little kid
who loves Jesus Christ)? There’s no answer. You
can run the movie over and over in your head and
ﬁnd every reason to hate the boy. But finally, you
smile when remembering him.

Jennie is the third unforgettable character. She
seems to be the only one who has a conscience, a
hope. Chloe Sevigny plays Jennie almost as a
victim of that hope. It victimizes her, then leaves
her. The only character who dared to look beyond
her surroundings is the first to feel the conse-
quences. But Jennie is not an innocent victim. No
one in this film is.

Maybe that’s what makes it hard to shake. As
audiences, we are used to having a hero to do battle
with the forces of evil. This ﬁlm is ambivalent,
realistic, truthful about characters who have not
had the luck to be written for such a clear-cut ﬁlm.

Finally, a word about the idea that the ﬁlm is
cheap exploitation of children. I can’t agree with
this, but I can certainly understand where that
sentiment comes from. There’s nothing in this ﬁlm
that young kids should see. Get it?!

 

  

PAGE 4

Ellie Ring-tum lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Journalism’s invisible choices

In today’s political climate, journalists, whether in
print or broadcast, are vilified as cold-hearted,
aggressive, liberal and amoral individuals. James
Fallows recently authored a book entitled Why
Americans Hate the Media. The answer is simple:
Americans hate the media because they do not perceive
the media doing anything ethical or anything
worthwhile. Instead, they see journalists grab for the
lowest and basest common denominator. The prime
example of this was the O.J. Simpson trail, a trail that
both attracted and sickened many Americans at the
same time.

Surely, journalists cannot be all that bad, but they
can do better. This weekend’s Journalism Ethics
Institute, which is sponsored by the W&L Journalism
Department, certainly could be a start. Institutes like
these bring forth issues such as confidentiality and
invasion of privacy that journalists might not think
about on a daily basis. When deadlines cut close,
editors and reporters mustmake quick decisions, and
ethics gives them a framework from which to work. It
allows them to consider the implications of their
decisions and who will be affected by them.

Besides, as journalists, we don’t write for
ourselves. We provide information to the public as a
service. It only makes sense that we think about the
consequences of our decisions. If we don’t, then we are
being irresponsible and not fulfilling our obligations to
the readers. Of course, not every decision that we
make will make readers happy nor will it always make
us happy.

What counts is the careful weighing of the ethical
decisions and having the ability to make the tough
choices. Readers need to know that they can trust us
and that we will make at least a fair decision even if
they don’t agree with it—whether that involves
publishing a controversial article or dealing with
anonymous sources.

The moment we stop asking, “What is the right
thing to do?”, that is the moment we forfeit our
responsibility as journalists and our right to call
ourselves journalists. If we don’t take heed the notion

‘ of public service that’journalisrn'req‘uires and the

ethical decisions that are involved, then we really can’t
complain when we are hated by the public. It only
means that we’re not doing our jobs.

-- M.H.

Quote of the Week

“Ah, signs of spring... a couple of Thetas jogging
down my road in very short shorts.”

-- Students commenting on the gifts of spring.

@112 mug-him lﬂlii

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary C00mbS
Sports Editor 591'" B00l<W3ll°|'
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Photography Editor 3&5)’ Glee"
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager R0b¢l'l Nelson
Assistant Business Manager D0118 G°“"°l'
Advertising Manager lcnnlfef Glam
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne AlV0|’d

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, roorri 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wIu.edu

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

Alarmist authors

 
    
   

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

Any_of you guys out there had a
problem with your manhood lately?
Well, the environmental movement has
now come galloping to your rescue to
proclaim that unseen toxic manmade
chemicals that act like human hor-
mones are the problem.

What am I talking about? Thisweek,
a new book, called Our Stolen Future,
purports to document that synthetic
chemicals, such as those in everything
from detergents to plastic water jugs,
are responsible for a plunge .-'2 world-
wide sperm counts, among other things.
Esquire magazine went a step further
when it quoted a former government
ofﬁcial linking the same chemicals to
lesbian birds on the Great Lakes. (I
wonder who’ll be the first gay rights
activist to object to this link between
homosexuality and chemical contami-
nation.) No less an authority than our
vice-president has written a foreword
to the book, proclaiming it the next
great step forward in the tradition of
chemophobic environmental books
like 1962’s Silent Spring.

There’s only one problem. Even
the authors admit that they can’t prove
their thesis. Indeed, much of the evi-
dence that does exist clearly seems to
contradict the authors’ doomsday pre-
dictions of the loss of humanity’s abil-
ity to reproduce, as The Washington
Times documented recently in an edi-
torial.

A 1992 article in the Wisconsin

Medical Journal “found no evidence
of a decline in semen quality in our
Wisconsin population over a 10-year
period.” A study mentioned in the April
1995 Journal of Urology concluded
that there had been “no signiﬁcant
change in semen parameters over the
past 25 years.” And Newsweek ac-
knowledged in its article on the scare
that a comprehensive Columbia Uni-
versity study is expected to reveal no
decline in sperm counts at all.

GENERATION Lax

Spring is in the air...

cwu onus!

we're Havma T .
cuss ourswt!

 

Sadly, this type of pseudo-scien-
tiﬁc environmental hysteria is the rule
rather than the exception for the radi-
cal environmental movement. I was
recently forced to suffer through read-
ing a book titled The Green Revolu-
tion, by Kirkpatrick Sale, that offered
all the environmentalist propaganda
you could want (and a whole lot more).

i The author repeatedly attempts to
bias his readers

     
     

  

 

>
Y
1-
1'9 HEMP Till” 5»
u&L fR0T55'5°3S
were gcczurrucr
i
7
‘ﬁr
3-7 V
R”: I

sound eco-threa  I r

countries don’t merit the same criti-
cism that the United States receives,
despite the fact that they cause many of
environmentalists’ pet peeves, such as
rainforest destruction or the popula-
tion explosion. (When was‘ the last
time you saw Midwestern farmers tak-
ing their John Deeres to dense patches
of rainforest? More seriously, when
was the last time Virginia performed

forced abortions

against Western in order to adhere
capitalist cul- —-T  -T-— to a restrictive
ture, twisting _ o n e - c h i l d
tfgcstziand events  ofyou guys out policy?)
political, Sale even
not scientific, there  aproblem finds a way to

purposes. Atone
point, he argues
that evidence of
environmental
deterioration
“shows us that

sumptions upon
which the mod-
ern urban-in-
dustrial ediﬁce
of Western cul-
ture rests are er-
roneous and
highly danger-
ous.Anecologi-
cally harmoni-
ous paradigm

r-the,,:.basic;~.as.- 

with your manhood
lately? Well, the en-
vironmental move-
menihas now come
gallogiingfo your res-
cue to proclaim that
unseen toxic man-
made chemicals that
act like human hor-
mones are the prob-
lem.

blame the Bush
administration
for the environ-
mental damage
caused by the
Persian

hundreds of oil
wells set on ﬁre
in the Middle
East. Maybe the
fact that the Ira-
qis started the
war and burned
the oil wells
doesn’t matter to
him.

And you can

Gulf '
War, citing the.

shift is going to
require a total A
reorientation of the thrust of Western
culture.”

What is this evidence he praises? In
one instance, he cites the 1989 scare
revolving around Alar, the preserva-
tive put on apples to enhance their
shelf life. What he doesn’t tell you is
that the charges of Alar’s carcinogenic
effects were quickly refuted, but not
before the hoax cost Washington apple
growers millions of dollars. Ironically,
the same company that promoted the
Alar scare, Fenton Communications,
now promotes the sperm scare men-
tioned above (with apparentlyjas little
scientiﬁc integrity).

Somehow Eastern and Third World

forget any at-
tempt to encour-
age environmentalists to recognize
good news about progress on the envi-
ronment. Moderate Newsweek colum-
nist Robert Samuelson presented much
of this evidence in an April 10, 1995
article titled “The Rise of Ecorealism ’ .”

Samuelson notes that air is much
cleaner now than it was just several
years ago. Between 1982 and 1992
(under the same Reagan and Bush ad-
ministrations that environmentalists
love to vilify), the number of Ameri-
cans living in counties that failed fed-
eral air-quality standards dropped by
half. While smog warnings were is-
sued in East Coast cities on 39% of the
days when the temperature rose above

90 degrees in 1988, warnings occurr ,
on only 14% of such days in 1993.
Samuelson states that acid rain is‘
“declining and neverwas as dangerous
as claimed.” In 1970, U.S. industrial’
plants and factories released 28 mil-
lion tons of sulfur dioxide, the cause of a
acid rain, into the atmosphere. By the
year 2000, this will have dropped to 9
million tons, even though use of coal to
generate electricity has doubled. In
1991, a ten year government study
concluded there was “no evidence of a
general or unusual decline of forests in
the United States or Canada due to acid
rain.” Furthermore, while environmen-
talists had warned that 50% of lakes
would be acidic, only 4% actually were. it
Most stunningly, forestation in the
United States is now greaterthan it has
ever been. In the mid 19th century,
about 35% of Vennont, Massachu-

' setts, and Connecticut was forest land; ‘

today the ﬁgure is 59%. Western Eu- '
rope also has 30% more forest than it
did 50 years ago.

Environmentalists sensationalize
news and promote a crisis mentality in
order to justify increased government Gr
regulation and control, despite the fact
that business has shown extraordinary
ability to develop environmentally safe
innovations. As an example, a Boeing
757 burns 30% less fuel per passenger It
mile than the previous gzneration of
Boeing jets.

Alarrnist environmental rhetoric now
presents one of the greatest obstacles to
real scientiﬁc progress on environmen—~t
tal issues, and condemnation is the knee-
jerk response for all those who criticize
this sensationalism. Dubious theories
like global warming and the ozone hole
now are promoted as fact, despite grow- _
ing scientiﬁc evidence contradicting
these notions.

It’s time for government to adopt
sensible environmental policies that
recognize regulations’ costs and ben-
eﬁts and look for the most efficient
way to solve problems, and it’s time
for relentlessly pessimistic environ-
mentalists to adopt a more productive
and scientiﬁc approach. 7

How I learned to hate the media

‘F

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

I hate the media. Perhaps you do, too?

I must admit that I used to think that some
conservatives who complained about the liberal
bias in the media were paranoid, or just bitter about
their defeats and looking for someone to blame, but
now I see it very differently.

I mean, certainly the press has no obligation to
be stupid or silent when a candidate says something
outrageous, or false, or even silly.

And certainly the complaints about coverage of
Pat Buchanan are just spurious. Every campaign
stop has him saying, “I’m a man who means what
he says, my friends,” but whenever the press reports
something stupid he said, he explains how he didn’t
really. say it, and the press just doesn’t like him.
That’s not bias, it_’s rising to the bait, and the press
doesn’t have much else to do. But watching the
1996 Republican presidential nomination race has
left me almost completely disgusted with the way
the news is delivered to me.

Just for a little disclaimer here, what you are
listening to is, in fact, just another conservative
whining about the media, but I think I have a bit of
a different slant, a bit of a different reason for my
disgust. Just one more disclaimer: I am a Forbes
supporter who thinks that he got a raw deal from the
media, so I’m especially bitter now, on the day after
he left the race.

So here’s my take on it: you see, while I do think
that the media has a bit of a liberal bias, I don’t see
that as their main problem. I’ve come to expect it,
and I sort of mentally excise it from all of the news

reports I see or read. So the bit of a problem it is
becomes a minor annoyance. But the whole nature
of the coverage has become such that any candidate
with an idea is driven from the race by a pack of
howling media hounds.

Former candidate Dick Lugar said part of it at a
forum in New Hampshire when he was asked why
he didn’t think his campaign was getting much
attention. “I’m out running a great campaign with
some real ideas, but I can’t get any of you folks to
cover it.”

The press makes a summary judgment about
candidates before the starting gun goes off, and can
almost never be persuaded to change it. Now, of
course these judgments are inevitable to some
extent. There are clearly major and minor
candidates, but some deliberation needs to go into
it. I’ve heard pundits saying over and over that
Lugar’s messages “don ’t seem to be resonating”——
what the hell does that mean?

I’ll give you a hint. Nothing. What really
happened is Jim and Sue Media were drinking in a
bar and said, “Get rid of the IRS? Is he serious?
That’ll never happen!” Then they went home and
went to sleep and never thought about little Dickie
Lugar again. They did this just before Dick Lugar
announced his candidacy for the presidency!

I hate the media.

Which brings us to Steve Forbes. Steve Forbes
was the slam-bang action hero of this campaign.
The press tried to do the same thing to him they did
to Lugar. They said, “Flat tax, schmat tax,” and
went ﬁshing.

But Forbes fought back. He took on all comers.
He knew why he was for what he was for, and he
pounded on that message so hard that he actually
made himself a contender.

Now, you can say he was just trying to “buy the
election,” but then the question becomes from
whom? The press!

If you can’t get coverage with new ideas, or
substantial backing from top party ofﬁcials, or
even, in the case of Lu gar, both of those and a three-
term Senate career, what can you do? Buy the
election. It’s the only way to go. So instead of
abusing the political system with his hard cash,

what Forbes was really doing was showing the ,5‘

American people one of the most essential problems
with the way the press works. It’s essentially the
same thing he did politically for the New York
primary, opening it up to more than just one

candidate, looking the establishment and telling ,

them to do something to themselves that I can’t
adequately express in a family newspaper.

Then the press got evil. They couldn’t get him
by ignoring him, because he started to go places
with his money and his ideas. So they jumped on

the ideas, willy nilly. They found establishment ’‘

Republicans who had been for the ﬂat tax the day
before Forbes’s numbers went up and became their
mouthpiece. They ran debunking stories about the
ﬂat tax, when the month before, their editorial

pages had been ﬁlled with thoughtful articles 1

entitled, “Time for a ﬂat tax?” with little boxes
inside that said, “Analysis.” They did all of this to
Steve Forbes because he had not been previously
approved by them.

They did it until they had eliminated every
candidate with an idea, in fact, except Pat Buchanan,
whose ideas and supporters are loopy already, and
guess who was standing? Bob Dole. Now there’s
not one candidate in the race who believes a word
he says. J

I hate the media. ‘V

I

l

1‘,

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

OPINION I

Tlow to pick your FD dream date

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

Fancy Dress is only a week away.
It Your reaction to that statement tells
me a lot about you. If you threw down
your newspaper in rage and disgust,
you probably don’t have a date yet,
think FD is no fun, and see no reason
for me to bring up the stupid thing,
"which you don’t want to go to anyway
and could I help you ﬁnd a date?
If you’re still reading, rage free, it
could be for one of two reasons. 1:
You have a date. 2: You are a guy. FD

"‘ is the biggest social event of the year,

but you’d never know it from the lack
of urgency with which the typical W&L
guy goes about ﬁnding a date. In spite
of this trend, I am willing to wager that

3 there people out there reading this——

guys and girls both who would like
some advice on how to ﬁnd a date. A
good date.

First of all, for God’s sakes, go out!
See! Be seen! Do not just stand around
with a group of your friends talking
about how much you wish you had a
date and how men/women suck. Do
you honestly believe that FD Date will
think, “Wow, I want to ask that pa-

It thetic person!” Prove how much fun

you can be by actually having ﬁm. If

this seems like a challenge to you, then

you have problems greater than any I
can solve.

Keep in mind the realities of FD
when considering the sort of person
you’d like to go with. l’ve heard many
a story about guys
finding dates like

than an organized treatise on FD. If I
can’t get away with it in a term paper,
maybe I can do it here.) l’ve heard the
decorations described as surreal, and
considering the state the average
ballgoer is in,
that sounds

ordering from a
catalog. Do you
really want to
spend a weekend
with someone that
you know nothing
about other than
“Blonde, not too
tall?” I like more
informationabout
asweaterI’mbuy-
ing, and I don’t
have to talk to it at
dinner. So before
you decide to go
with your big
b r o t h e r ’ s
girlfriend’s
roommate’s lab

CC

“Blonde, not too tall?”
I like more informa-
tion about a sweater
I’m buying, and I
don’t have to talk to
it at dinner. So be-
fore you decide to go
with your big
brother 3 girlfriends
roommate’s lab part-

like a good
way to go. But
as always, I
have some
other ideas for
possible future
FD themes.
One of them is
even another
c h i 1 d r e n ’ s
book.
—Charlie
and the Choco-
late Factory. I
honestly think
this would be
cool. Fountains
of chocolate, a

glass elevator,

partner, think for ners  for a grass made Of
a minute. What ' sugar. Phi ex-
aboutthat girl you minute‘ ecutive editor
eat lunch with ev- Emily Baker
ery day who’s fun expressed un-

and doesn’t have a date yet? Hello?
The theme this year sounds pretty
cool. (By the way, in case you haven’t
ﬁgured it out yet, this is kind of a
stream 0’ consciousness deal, rather

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING

tudents Needed! Tour guide, instructor,
ifeguard, hotel staff, fireﬁghter+ volunteer
. nd government positions available at National
arks. Excellent benefits + bonuses! For
utdoor Employment Program call: (206)
71-3620 ext.N53421

   
  
       
       

  

qualiﬁed enthusiasm for edible deco-
rations. Freshmen without dates would
be forced to be Oompaloompas. And if
your date turns out to be irritating,
maybe she’ll turn into a giant blue-

berry.

——Night In Jail. Guests would be
fingerprinted upon entering the ball.
Concrete ﬂoors and urinals complete
the decor. Hard cots would be avail-
able for weary dancers to rest on.

_A Very CadaverFD. W&L’sinfa-
mous Cadaver Society would provide
the decorations for this predictable yet
mysterious ball. .

—Inside Your Sock Drawer. You
thought A Mad Tea Party was sur-
real...

—Cats! W&L salutes this long-
running musical by ﬁlling the gym
with huge trash cans, balls of yarn, and
a litterbox motif in the bathrooms.

—FD: AmazingBut True. Asalute
to East Lex, complete with kegs,
NASCAR merchandise, and
Lexington’s most extensive collection
of pornography.

—Mock Con 11. Let’s keep all of
the red, white, and blue decorations
from this month’s other big event. The
money we’d save would make for one
ragin’ bar.

—Gangsta ’sParadise. A theme that
the typical W&L student will be just
as receptive to as he will be to the
Coolio concert. Expect to see a lot of
townies.

——What Do You Care? You’re
Drunk? Sure I suggested this theme in
last year’s column, but what do you
care? You were drunk.

PAGE 5

   
  

Fancy Dress Specials

76 77aZax;ga

Shrimp Scampi - $12.95

Chicken Marsala - $10.95
Served with salad or soup and garlic bread

Group Take-out Dinners - You

.01‘.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

OCTAA meeting

Attend an OCTAA-On Campus
Talking about Alcohol-program
Sunday, March 17 from 5:30-8:30
p.m. in Room 113 of the University
Center. OCI‘AA teaches students
how alcohol affects their body based
on quantity/frequency choices, to
estimate their biological risk for al-
cohol related problems and to make
low-risk drinking choices. Call 462-
4501 to sign-up for this
nonjudgemental, research-based
program.

EC petitions \

Petitions for class ofﬁcers and
EC representatives will be avail-
able in are due at the mandatory
meeting for all candidates at 5 p.m.
Monday, Mar. 18 in the EC office.

Candidate speeches for class of-
ﬁcers and EC representatives will
be held on Tuesday, Mar. 19 in
Commerce School 221.

Dance lessons

Come to the Fairfax Lounge from
6 p.m. to whenver Monday and Tues-
day for dance lessons from Frank
Roupas. This is the last chance.

Live Drive

Live Drive is now available at
W&L from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. every
Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
night. Anyone interested in being a
volunteer driver, please call 463-
6371. Anyone interested in becom-
ing involved with the program,
please come to Payne 2 Tuesday
night at 7:30. Call 462-4055 for
more information.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Stu-
dent Activities Board and the Film
Society are pleased to announce
co-sponsorship of the controver-
sial ﬁlm KIDS (USA, 1995), di-
rected by Larry Clark.

Please note that KIDS will be
screened twice nightly, at 7 :00 and
9:00 PM on Friday 15 March and
Saturday 16 March in the Trouba-
dour Cinema, at the comer of Main
and Henry Streets. There is no
charge for admission.

CDPO news

There will be an internship work-
shop for those interested in getting
internships in the communications
ﬁeld on March 20th at 4:30 p.m. in
the Career Development Ofﬁce.

There will be a career focus
workshop on Thursday, March 21st
at 4 p.m. in Room 114 of the Uni-
yersity Center. All students need-
Ing help with decisions regarding
their major or career choices, are
encouraged to attend.

Stop by the CareerDevelopment
Ofﬁce on a weekly basis. New jobs
are oorning in daily, many with
quickresume submission deadlines.
Students may pick one copy of the
1996-97 catalog from the Univer-
sity Registrar’s Ofﬁce.

FD tickets

Fancy Dress tickets go on sale
March 18 in University Center
Room 109 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Tickets are forty-five dollars.
Memorabilia packages are eighty
dollars.

can serve your own dinner,
completewrth salad, garlic bread &
dessert. You can feed a grou of

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

  

- . - . r‘ d f l'ttl $.00 , -,-— ,
The Buffet 18 Served froni .800 aim. umll 1'30 pm. I eIC1Iai1 L(1)sr azitslelasfgz hours in PC7171! Smith Of Mar1e’s
We’l1 b6 waltlng fOf you. advance, and see what we can do for 1] $_]eﬁer5on Street
, y°“' specializing in hair failing
Berky S FINE ITALIAN CUISINE 453'9533

Route 11 North - Lexinton VA

 

Buy Your Tickets To
A MAO TEA PARTY

Monday through Friday

(March 18 to March 22)
10:00 to 2:00

University Center Room 100

Cetitia ‘Pate Evans Dining flail
‘Presents.-

”’Posi fancy Dress Brunch Buffet"

Saturday ~ Marcl1Z3.1996
11:30 am. ~ 1:00 pin.

fresh fruit Cup
Eggs Benedict
Country Cink Sausage
]{as/1 Browns
Make Your Own Waffles
Jlotcakes n7~ /"lssorted Syrups
/issorted Bastries
Breakfast I/ogurt n7~
fresh fruit Toppings
fruit Julces ~ Coffee ~ Milk
‘Hus Much, Much More

Tickets Cost $45

Memorabilia Packages Cost $80

and include 2 T-shirts,
2 Posters, 2 Shot Glasses, 4 Cups and 2

Playhills

UC $4.75 Cash $5.40 Contract ?\//C

/7111 Members 0t”'I7Ie University Comnzuni
& Guests /'lre Invited e_

Coolio Tickets are also available at this time

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

ADVERTISEMENTS
I1££D A IlO7£I300I( comrumz _ ‘ _ _ _ _ 9
Bu; gooﬁng gag A 635,41 mm; The Phi -- We re in touch with our Amish side.

     

 

Apple Powerbook 520 ’
Notebook Computers
-recently discontinued modeI- _ T ,
(4mb& 12MB RAM Conﬁgurations) , A   R   Z577"; , I _   L‘ ' l  .7

L In Stock & On Sale!  pp  V A  M L ‘’

Contact University Computing I
Tucker 229 463-8847 rfloyd@w/u.edu , ‘

rorpn-cmgaetais Let Peebles Accessorize

W“ "W ’"‘W'~' Your Fancg Dress Needs

(0RD£R A Pi2.1nI£2 {wane Wm! .77 B£‘:'OR£ MARCH 16. MD ‘ﬂl
2  Peebles Department Store

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with    LI  C    V

America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL H . M S O 9 S I 6
(800) 95-BREAK! O U  . — _ , U n "

5 p511) I EARN   i‘1itcI’\e||’sTuXedo Rental
WEEKLY!  MON   Ladies’ Dress/Casual Shoes

  A T HUME.’ A — Nine West ‘
PROCESSING   -  

— Etienne Aigner
Ladies’ Fine Hosieru 5*
- Hones Si|R Reflections
—JocRg t

EXPERIENCE. Elizabeth Arden

  SIR DHA,Ls:§E§E%5,fGR§5EE Calvin Klein Fregrances

I   ANC ' — Ch One ,,

-   sum:-1-E 216 - ESCGDC

  
      
    
 
 

          
    

1-""'"

._ No

  

1.851 lI'-E‘EI3ER.&’l.'.u I!il"’I'—

OCRYSI l'l{-|’l \ MOI ll-l)()l)(}l-.0
<

     
 

  

 
    
 
   

    
   
 

           
 
 
 

i

$19.9

INCLUDES:
°Auto Transmission
Check
°Up to 5 Quarts 10W/30
Valvoline Oil
°Filter Chassis Lube

*most cars

 |lIl0eSn'lTa|le__A_|Vlal|| iiiiaior  
erezzzsie  To Reduce the coemeientot Ilrau to .31 I

oi
I-3
'5:
mo
‘.I(i

 
 
 

-N |t):)Ni I-(I

   
    

   
 

ll/\l{ - NISSAN 0 I(>\'0|/\ 0 I I \'|i\‘ - lN|-INIII I /\(ilJR
'>|L)IIl$|° \}‘lil'.>}l |l\E

    
 

ﬂ " - ’“.r -- .; .--- ..» . "' ' W

  
 

   
       
  

 

 
     

 

   

   
         
 
 

    

 

 
    

é
5 -
  ' 015 I
; 2 (And Do It with A Lot ty e.
§ .3; . A r
9 Ms»,.I=-s. staoaiwssooru ,1. ‘  I A
: Sutmdays-.30AM«-2£0PM 3  
~ *5. 7 Q “*."*?'  .i   . TOYOTA
 siri l.) i iw Ntlllli. .>\ |l|(i\.) . R    ‘tﬁvmu You 00 yo’ W
é SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL I _ ’ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. TRIPS,EARNCASH&GOFREE!!! . - ~ _ » " “" " "' "' " " ‘ "' "' "" "' " " " ""
1‘. StudentTravelServicesisnowhiring Do    & M3SiEfC3fd Cfadlt  ’ Ez CARD’ SUITE 275 I V‘
‘; campusrepresentatives. Lowest rates f ' ' 1501 E‘“’hLLn-“DALE BC“ BLVD '
~ to Jamaica, Cancun, Daylona and _ 0 I .- . Nnilryouanhava tn-oaﬂhe moctmcugnlaadurd ' EIALI.AﬂDA_L8. ?LDRIl}h 33009 I
 Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648- ' - lcceplied czmdltgnnh in the 1iv:1dd....VIul and Iihatucnnlo I "‘ """"""""""""""""““’-"'-"'i" g
[ 4849 _ """'gg-,,';:_ “;E“B§FEN"m§'5$ g : Iwantvls-AOIMASTERIIIIRDO Credit I *
- ' ' ctutitupptmnsd Immediately. we-its nmmnmnssnz ’
t V$K9&d 9 tltcltdliclﬂisynu I g
 it  R L   . "er"-'t:t2.ee;-;~,.i°s;e:s.*::$:.*,r.mEmez - mm .
3 Eitigs3§’ﬁ§,,f%Z{,";?,;a‘,fff;kﬁ’{§o§‘f§%;'3e  I i ' EMEK3E:iiK2Y _0A.SH-TICKE'TS-—8E5TAURAPlT‘S-- : ADDRESS '
[ Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail '" _ ‘ as REPA]'RSu[EAN£$*“‘D  ' aw ‘I i
o bl . F ' f I): °’- ~ -' . -
-2 izois) 93i-lZI3‘5§(<)::xt. c53421 = . ‘ p 1 S  sTATE““zlP :
3   ﬁg In turn downs! -' ' ‘£§ KO 55" I
T; F h_ I d t E t mo _, L QEE witnhgﬂcnqg no credit citeem I SIGNATURE u
 $(',§,0'0"f Pen,  R:':":'pan% Board;  “5L§l.:;“g¢;‘:a_ *9 5'9’-"‘“'“»J deposit!  mm Maison: in ugua-untndemnuuumuaa Intmuituot-1 Inc. ' V
' Transporalionl Male or Female. No expe- . , Gnu‘ gall‘. 5 ' V5‘ “ ’  "*‘*""l d “55 '-151L. 95¢ IN‘ V15-‘ Mkftlﬂonil I
rience necessary. For more information  0‘ END THE CKIJPIXI TOl3.ﬂ‘|" ' '
call:(206) 971 . 3510 ext AS3421 I  YOUR CREDIT CARDS MIE IMITIIIG! 3 ' '
’ CG & : Q ¢ — — — w$CC$$ﬂﬂi$8&—::—au

 

-7 The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996 ADVERTISEMENTS PAGE 7

The Washington and Lee Publications Board announces that it will
be accepting applications for several positions for the 1996-1997
school year. Those interested in serving as editors of any of the fol-
lowing publications need to drop a resume and cover letter in the
folder outside of Carol Calkins’ o "ice by Monday, March 25. Busi-
ness editors are also needed for the Phi and Calyx. Those applying
also need to sign up for an interview on Wednesday, March 27.

Ring-tum Phi
Calyx
Ariel
Political Review
Journal of Science
Arete

"\

Although experience is desirable, there are no o "icial requirements
for these positions and all interested students are encouraged to apply.

k   2

CéLé'BRATé ST. PATT‘/S DAV UUITH
Rem. Lll/6 TRISH Qaeuc music!

 

Located 112 mile from W811. in a quiet, relaxed setting. You‘ve seen
it; the red barn with the riding ring and paddocks on Rt. 60 west,
just outside of Lexington. It doesn't get any closer or better.

We provide
Feeding, 12 hr. mm out, stall cleaning,
blankcting, and minor gmnming. We help
maintain health and shoeing records.
Come enjoy nut? '12 stalls, heated tackroom,
bathroom, 2 wash stalls and grain room.
There are private trails and river access.
We will provide any extra services.
Please call Cabell German 463-4467

 
  
 
    

an

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

, .        GET QEADV FQQ
Friday, March 15  F/=\l‘|CV D9555
N  p.m.  the  Pub - Tuxedos for Rent
. . . - 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos For Sale
4 Free AdmlSSl0n and - Fancy Cummberbund & Tie Sets
9 St‘ Pattyls Day apparel - gtzizlliread Shorts

Spring arrivals daily

Sponsored by Student Activities/Pub Committee VISA MAf6TERCARD STUDENT CHARGE
3-5383

t—— ._ H

 

 

DAVE
by David Miller

ADVERTISEMENTS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

MOTHER GOOSE 8: GRIMM

by Mike Peters

\\

Weekend Warriors 72 1. financial backbone

of billion-dollar recreation industry,
2. Visual entertainment for Serious
athletes. Also see Sports medicine
industry and Instant expertitis.

oar? David mum. Ali ' ms yesevved

byTnbuneMedia ,Inc - ~ ”~

   

 
  

 

I)» RELIEVED WITH THIS NEW

I I GUESS I SHOULD BE
In EQUIPMENT OF HIS.
 .8»:

7 - ﬁg!

 

..:‘ 7%!‘-7
. WE FINALLY GOT <’ ,
VOICE MAIL AT " OF COUR5E HE
THE PAPER. _ 0N
ﬂ/V '

   

 

 T "“\|
aw; \M\6t\IH£rr‘oM R231’ wszir-12¢ <.¢=aut=- ‘

 

 
 

-%

I LEASE.

4

CAT:

" °I ""I"'Y0€- . .
.  /> I V — — .I7ynneMedIaServIccs.Inc

I .\\\N\\\.

  

   
    

NOW I DON'T HAVE

MY COLUMN...

©95TrIbune Mediaserdces. Inc. All Rights Reserved

-7 YES. IT IS TRUE TI-IAT ~ ‘ ‘ BUT IT IS NOT TRUE, Tpmr Hg “AD
" MY CAMPAIGN RELIED A5 MY OPPONENT To 55 TREATED
HEAVILY ON NASTY ~ ASSERTS IN Frog 52 A5155

soono smas... \_ HIS LAWSUIT.

   

 

‘ BUT I'M GETTING
TO SEE HI5 FACE ’.- A LITTLE SICK OF
WHEN HE READ5 ~’ THE GA5 MASK.

 

09.-IIII »
ﬁt, -- » .,
3/_’;*'m“  A \\l
_;,,”_m ” 4 s O
‘ yn‘ 5:‘ -‘III’: I,E:'(

' \‘\.\:'v*
" 1 ‘<1
\ \‘I
. I;
|\\

. .\.\\\

    
  
 

  

\' v 5“ ‘.a*"\\>‘ ' \\ \
\ I\" ‘ . *<“\\ .
«xi _ . - I
.\\ I _. ‘ .

995 Tribune Media Servites, Inc. All Rights Reserved

   
   
     
   
     

 

V/ 

WINTER SALE

50% off all Fall and
Winter Fashions
Sale continues plus lots of new Spring things

app oqo9.Qo'

23 N. Main Street
Hours: Monday — Saturday10:00 - 5:30

  

 

   
  

  

\\

7/,427¢$P&P0AZ

79 5. zcmdatﬁé St.
463-2742

   
  
 

{xx

 

%%(<KR\\\N\\
kv.\\\\~\\~\

  

 

I woMI7ER IF I
CAN unvo HER
FLEA ANV TICK
COLLAR WITH

ONE PAW ..
1/  H

 

../‘/;/~p7A §
; ei995'éFnmy Inc.
.——~ ‘*2 D81. tr;Tn'bune Media Semces. Inc.

‘Ii AW,MAM...IdU5‘I‘lI}IdECTED
\ A TI-iEVENOM.N0w IT5 GOING
\ GETALL soaev

     

\‘

; ‘‘_\‘
O
5"

K?

\\s

 
 

.. _\\
\“" WI-IEN CAMARIES DRINK

     

OKm COME OUT

   

N0
KICANGARO

ll

 

. “ 1 ‘ \ .\ .

' .

   

 

T’



VON «we ‘OF 11-45 «JUNGLE

5/2 I

A Bistro

8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
All you can eat $4.99

Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID

Friday - Seafood Nite -
Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,
2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

» Everyday“IM_-u;ffin’& Cup of Coffee‘ $1.50

 (8L*i'7ai1i 9-» 10 am)
Daily Lunch Special with Drink $4.50

995 G ' I .
Eﬁedia Services, Inc.

at AN? TO M
LEAVE 1383 I
PIECES OF STRING
A sum: cmuo
AN ORANGE PEEL.



.\\‘

‘F’
8
3%.
§

_..

APACKRAI3 LASTWILLAIIVTESI-IIMENT

  

For Rent
Bed/Bath for non-smoking female
student in a quiet and clean
home:Houston Street

96-97 academic year. All the amenities

of home including washer and dryer/

telephone/TV cablel AC and Kitchen
Privilages

Call 463-3315 after 5 p.m. or 462-1313

9 a.m. to ‘I p.m.

 

W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

.///a/1/one 3 _
2'5 9/  Wteel
4’ 63- 6'00)’

3%! ml 179%; you  /teat/y .99.
.%4mm,, am’ /0 mm;
$35. oo
oi/mu'('u/zoo, amgﬁc MM mu/é/to
ﬁloﬂao mwm/ﬂy /zazim//;/£0».
.//[(1/fa 4/out 0/I/mt71alnwn/ loalagl

   

     
 
  
   
   
 
  
     
 
  

    

PAGE 9

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996  
l H at   Generals stumble in first

     
   

 

  
   
    
 

 

V MEANS LOW PRICES ODAC baseball C011t9St
E 2 a  to progression by turning three double plays and committing 7';
‘V ” ’   R By CHRIS PUGSLEY (Smly twp ejrrors, one 8f whisch washquestionably scored. »‘
 . . eniort ir baseman wen mith s owed off his love at
Q N. T E '  a I H H” 3”“ Wm“ his newly found position and solidiﬁed defense at tghe “hot 1 ,
corner”. Senior outﬁelder Graig Fantuzzi showed off the '-i
lce-ridden, soggy ﬁelds forced the Washington and Lee leather by making a tremendous over-the-shoulder catch in t‘.
( baseball team to change their first ODAC matchup to the left ﬁeld to rob Bridgewater of an extra-base hit. '"
conﬁnes of Bridgewater College. Washington and Lee continued its play Thursday after-
Unfortunately, the home-field advantage was in effect noon at home against the Savannah College of Art and
for the Eagles. Bridgewater, behind the sweet stroke of Design by edging out a 5-4 victory.
junior outﬁelder Cory Heimbaugh, defeated the Generals, W&Ltrailed 3-0 heading into the bottom of the ﬁfth, but _‘;
4 10-2, in an exchange of home runs. the Generals quickly tied the game when junior Tucker ‘;
Generals’ senior first baseman Preston Miller took a belt- Bixby smashed a three—run home run. The Generals took the .;
high pitch overthe right field fence to close the Eagles’ third lead for good in the bottom of the seventh on RBIs from -. ‘»
inning lead to 5-2. But the Eagles stormed back for ﬁve more Tommy Esposito and Fantuzzi.
runs, including a home run, and silenced the Generals’ hopes Chad Reynolds pitched 3 1/3 shutout innings for the win,
of winning their ﬁrst ODAC conference game. and Matt Reedy struck out the final batter on three pitches
‘/ But the Generals were not to be outdone in some aspects to pick up the save.
of the game. First, the Generalsreceived animpressive late- It seems as if all cylinders are starting to click for
inning relief effort from freshman Dave Clements, who Washington and Lee, and it is only a matter of time before
continues to maintain a 0.00 ERA through two appearances. this machine explodes for a run at the ODAC Tournament in
Despite a slow start, freshman pitcher Bob Weston contin- May.
,1 ued to maintain a strong presence on the mound. The Generals will travel to Virginia Wesleyan for a
The Generals’ defense showed its continued committment doubleheader Saturday afternoon at 1:00 PM.
‘ I '
Pillsbury Harris Teeter
Toaster 3/ O0 Sour 
-  Strudel “.5 Cream um.
Selected Varieties
'‘ Erika Snyder Matt Ermigiotti
Women's Lacrosse Baseball
Snyder has ex- Ennigiotti pitched
V ploded for eight goals six terriﬁc innings in
in the past two games. an exciting 9-6 vic-
She racked up seven tory over West Vir-
points against Colby- ginia Tech March 4.
Sawyer on Saturday. He gave up only two
She followed this up runs. The seniorwas
R’ with four goals Thurs- also a batting force as
day versus Lynchburg. he plated two runs.
‘T  one 8 Oz, Gfound Many thanks to W&L Sports Information

’i'i’3i32,il’5‘f§  Free i-°a°‘£n-es ".159 "‘
4 pp Harris Teeter Regular

Butte’ The R ing-tum Ph 1'

 Quarters 

i ‘ .
I V," \ ‘ “
\ i ii ‘
.
, \ \ ‘ 
\i\ . ~

 White Space Is NOT Your
Friend.

5;;
i tea -
'/ /R’
p at
é/£5
Hui E
/V‘ 
,4 
»J:-Te‘
K:

   
 

  
  
 

     

‘.
.§,_
, “ ‘V.
.‘ 1
.4.

4

.

.

     
 
 

 

Y

\i\\\lI\ll(\‘\

 

k l
N \\“ “N ,, E  1.
 SALTED SWEET “  .n.\ii

   

 

 

 

    

K ~»~.«..-
Watch Us Fill It Every Week
V"
4’ -mt.“ uﬁ u anjsjaas
:5: I TIVII U ll-IE6’ .
Alon! atonfas, Mora Games, Best Service!
172 Walker Street, _Sumrnt1 Square, next to the DMV
(540) 463-9354
. " Private, Individual Roorns
V aaovgy
’ Selected Varieties 5 Pk- 20 02- N33 * ""‘°"“‘V ’“'“°'P"°'° ”"”“""

cheefias COKE OF Diet ' §;“£..1'§’.§’.‘§' "“"“'"“ 3”’ ‘""" 833'"
“ Cereal COKE ‘.e.::.:*.:.::°e*°" °' 

 1 the nations #1 best somng
 14-15 oz. ..

lotion!
' Certified consultants!
33.’. S D _ R L O A’ A (‘La r New Member Speclatz ‘ 
 o- rt 9 . emon r oe n no in 30 Days for $30
 Paper 2/88¢ cu eite 149 mm mm
Towelsﬁm... ft. Foamy 11 .1. no». — m».

10 mm. - 10 p.m.

’  Tropicana Sweet  “"- ‘ M

 Season's ﬂ Florida    
 Best 54 oz. 3 Strawberrlesa.  .~~- ‘

 

  

 . .l « oi; ;;.;.;:.‘;i;';.;.i;.“.;""..s‘“****'"Mr-
it Prices Effective Through March 19, 1996 : .,... ..,..,,,.,.,.,,._,,,§,,, 5’°'%.....«.... 5
5' Prices In This Ad Effective March 13 Through March 19, 1996 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores r f ""‘ '°" -' --I-I---0 No-9.... (nu) 453-5034 '7“ .
 On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps. I- — - ... _ _ _ _ . ” _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ “ “ __ __ 7044-7! *

,1’ ‘

 

  
     

   

I\-1_[.M:rzossr:- W, 16-9, vs. Hamp.-Sydney; L, 11-7, vs. Cortland St.

W l_JtCROBSE- W, 21-3, vs. Colby-Sawyer; W, 12-5, vs. Lynchburg

l$’i'l‘izNNrs- L, 4-3, vs. Wooster; W, 6-1, at Mary Washington;
W, 4-3, vs. Sewanee

\‘~.«"!i?.NNrs- W, 8-1, vs. Randolph-Macon; W,8-1, vs. Washington

fltast Week: ~ ~ _ ° This Week:
[ S @112 181119 tum lﬁht .......  ..   .... . ,

Bast-zimu. - L, 10-2, vs. Bridgswater; W, 5-4, vs. Savannah A&D Lynchburg, 3:00 PM; Thurs. at E. Mennonite, 3:00 PM
Mlncnosss - Sat. vs. Gettysburg at RCHS, 7:00 PM
WLAcnoss: - Sat. vs. Guilford, 2:00 PM; Wed. at Hollins, 4:30 PM
M'I‘sNNrs- Sat. at l-lamp.-Syd., noon; Sun. vs. Salisbury

St.., 11:00 AM; Tues. vs. Averett, 3:00 PM

W'I‘sNNrs - Fri. vs. Kenyon, 3 PM; Sat. vs. Va. Wesleyan, 10 AM
Gou='- ’ Mon.-’I‘ues. at Ferrum Invitational, 9:00AM

College; W, 6-3, vs. Sewanee; W, 7-2, vs. Bridgewater
K Gum? - Finished second at Emory & Henry/ ODAC Invitational jmcx . sag, in W&L Invitational, 10:00 AM
 ,... V
 1o BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF, TRACK AND FIELD MARCH 15, 1996

Men pick up i
first victory ’

  
   
  
  
  
   
    

.9, ,,,,,...,,t,..,,~.,. Generals roll past Mary »
i*‘or.tiienex'ttW ' .
Washington College, 6- 1
again gave W&L victories. 3-
By JASON ZACHER SeniorsAndyHorenandJesse
9 I Phi Staff writer Taylorwontheir matches in very
nafionaichamp different fashion. _
Wm the 3,3,‘; Horen was taken to the wire
. The men’s tennis team won in the second set, winning 6-2, 7- W
if, two of its three matches last 5. Taylor had it easy, winninga
week, picking up wins against perfect 6-0, 6-0 match.
Mary Washingtonand Sewanee, Led by the team of
but dropping to Wooster. MacNaughton and Hammond,
The Generals moved their the Generals won all of their
overall record to 2-2. doubles matches. V

Against a talented Wooster The teams of Pretila and Tay-
team, the Generals were de- lor, and freshman Scott Babka

feated, 4-3. and junior Chris Higgs also won
Picking up wins for W&L in their matches.
singles were junior Peter The Generals rallied froma3- .‘

Hammond, freshman Dale 1 deficit Thursday to stun
Pretila and senior Ryan Aday. Sewanee,4-3. Pretila capped of
Senior Chris MacNaughton and the thrilling comeback by ca
Julie Ayers (above) combined with Natalia Garcia to capture three doubles matches last weekend. Hammond won their numberone turing the ﬁnal match in a thir
doubles match against Wooster. set tiebreaker, 7-5.

On Tuesday, the Generals This weekend, the men will
won their first match of the sea- take on Salisbury State at home

Phi File Photo

 

.. ; .
   Women’s tenms off to fast start     on   
- §,appe,,¢¢‘;;  6-1.Hammond,Pret1la and Aday Sydney away on Saturday.

hit campus N

l5 an 33?. Pugh  Sophomore All-American Natalia Garcia also had two wins in the
§V°l"30n *§OOlO3 5  *3 By JASON ZACHER number one slot, and only dropped one game in those two matches.
PO? g3n’*°--- W113‘, phi Staff Wm“ Sophomore Berry Blankinship, captain Shelley Sunderman and

bettertelllverseiill dfohti
Thompson is II; it
lloyas worft advat1oe~‘far

senior Helen Chandler each had two wins for the Generals. Fresh-
men Cathy Moore, Laura Cohen and Mary Celeste Foster also had

The women’s tennis team continued its strong start this past multiple singles victories.

:

   
 
    
   
   

lfﬂa”ing.t°*—‘ iS'n.’1_al weekend, pushing its record to 5-0 overall, 4-0 in the ODAC. In doubles competition, the Generals did not drop a match. The
_1 J85“?!-:‘?e3WS““ 3- Randolph-Macon, Washington College, Lynchburg College doubles team of senior Julie Ayers and Garcia won three number
lfh“«°k7= K and Emory & Henry all dropped their matches to the Generals. one doubles matches.

Villanova:

W&L only lost three individual matches out of the 36 played. The teams of Shapard and Blankinship, sophomore Bryce
The wins give W&L momentum as it heads into matches Bendall and Foster, and Chandler and Sunderman each won two

against #1 -ranked and defending national champion Kenyon Col- matches.

lege this afternoon and #6-ranked Amherst College tomorrow. The Generals had another strong day Thursday, defeating na-

The Generals are ranked fourth nationally. tionally-ranked Sewanee, 6-3, despite not having two starters in
“Our goal is nationals. We want to win it, and we think this their lineup. Also Thursday afternoon, the women bounced

could be our year. This week is going to be our test,” said Bridgewater, 7-2. The wins raised W&L’s record to 7-0 overall.

sophomore Ericka Shapard. Coming up on the Generals’ schedule are Kenyon today, Vir-
Shapard led the women last week with three ﬂawless singles ginia Wesleyan and Amherst tomorrow and Salisbury State on

victories, two of which were in the number one slot. She rolled Sunday. All of the matches will be at home.

over her competition, winning all three matches, 6-0, 6-0. “We arevery excited. We want to drop Kenyon,” said Shapard.

Vitale. are A st pity
«sally imposrnggwlthey--r
downright scary;  Yo’,
would think Ken‘y’}(itt¥es
was charging longed‘
ﬁance calls to
phone card, _Lw_i;h the ex’.
pression the~.biiriy.
‘wears. Komegay_g ate
a few ﬁght'sl_earlie1f *
season bat. no ‘
more corrtea
patients. on di
was goingitewar
Komegay anti? ’
xttyside. acne‘ ,
ere‘ are.:;;s_‘ , 5

    
   
  
 
        
   
 
 
      
     
 
   
    
  

 

Men eliminated in lacrosse tournament final
W&L succumbs to Cortland State, 11-7, after trouneing Hampden-Sydney in opener

  

Y .
continue to=rn't1Inidate pp?-
porzents ~f.fo1“': Vi ilanov§-_';.t

‘ _ V g g V A Tigers scoreless forover23 min- firstthree goals ofthe second half. to their matchup against the Bul- W&L Goals: Jenkins, Croft,
avoid Zaaothfst; smzbartass

utes and giving the Generals a The Dragons led 9-4 early in lets of Gettysburg College. The Butterworth, 3; McLaughlin 2; ll‘
commanding 13-6 lead. the fourth, but W&L made a late game will take place at Dougherty,Stanley,Myers,Fallace,
The drive was led by senior drive and managed to cut the Rockbridge County High School S1ide1l,1
midfielder Adam Butterworth Cortland lead to 10-7 with 8:30 Saturday at.7:00 PM.
and junior midfielder Shane remainingin the match.

    

McLaughlin, with each scoring But Ronayne and his team- March 9 March 10 is
two goals during the nine-goal mates spoiled the drive, scoring 1 2 3 4 Tot 1 2 3 4 Tot
_ run. his ﬁfth goal ofthe afternoon with
1 . . Washin ton and Lee so ho- 4:55 remainin .
V=/liii?OpSWlliit§l'}ll1§IlCiﬂgi’\ more goali§Scott Jackson nliade The Generalstook second place  52 15 16 3 1% $‘?§I'_lSt' 3 21 a El; 1.;
most underaehi’ an impressive sixteen saves for in the tournament with the loss to
, ent,bntnot 13611 the Generals and helped them Cortland. Photos mums “Ron W&LGoals: Croft, Horstman, lh
take the game by a final score of Washington and Lee now looks Bookwany 2; Butterworth, Jenkins, Fallace,1
. . Cl‘
16-9. Butterworth, _]uIll0l' attack

Ande Jenkins and senior attack
Russell Croft each added three

 

  
     
   
  
  

        

goals in the victory.
' - 9 W&L met the 17th-ranked
W&L scoops m a goal past Cortland s Brent Coye. Cortland State Dragons Sunday
in the championship game of the
Tigers managed to score the first l°lll’n3ln°nl-

By BETHANY BAUMAN fO"l gO3lS Of Bum": Gen"
Phi Assistant Sports Editor llle game and  _. . , emlswereoutof
took a 5-1 lead ‘ ' ' lllell ‘OP fOlln
late in the first and COl'llan‘l {an
The Washington and Lee’s quarter. ‘O an ll‘7 ‘"9’

men’s lacrosse team hosted its But the ‘Oly-
third annual tournament Satur— Generals cut The DlagOnS
day and Sunday at Wilson Field. the lead to 5-4 Went into half-
The ninth-ranked Generals before Jody lllnO Wllll 3 5'3
faced the Tigers of Hampden- Garlissnetteda “Vantage fOl'
Sydney in the opening round goal for lOWlng38OalbY
Saturday. The Tigers entered H a m p d e n - Justin Ronayne.
.  the toumamentwith a2-Orecord, Sydney, mov- Ronayne had
 ?a.W.l_5l0» having just come off an unex— ing the score to "0 lnlOnllOn Of
actually need.‘ {O 3llO‘W 11? pectedvictory over1acrossepow- 6-4, letting up On the
fm llle 5O°Ol'-*3  erhouse Gettysburg College. W&L then Generals 35 he

W&L got off to a slow start went on a 9-0 ‘ ' ' ' " Came 0111 l0
against Hampden-Sydney. The run, holding the Shane Mcl-“ughlln Score C0rtland’S Sophomore Paul Stanley (7) leads the break for the Generals in Sunday's game.

l...2....3...1i...

Get your booty on the ﬂoor with
end. By Fancy?" _ttme..,

  5739 .Ring»-tum J~"ﬁi *

     A Gangsters Paradise cvcrg Friclau   *
Valparais0?,  _  vi

round - 
Pri ncetoti, th
one hates tefaee
makes r11is‘aIin:it:st-
ucra audits  pow,
pace facing. ‘theiiprodding _— 2“-
Tigers, a team forlwhich 
55-50 game is-ap shootout

Enjoy the ﬁtsrweek
end of the‘touraan3en’t and
those few games in‘
volvingan ACCEV an: Era
you may random

1:
counter on .TV3,thi_sTvveei;«  .3

   
   
   
    

  

   

 

