. ..—._.-v V. ....- vs-or-I I.l—rv1FH

waauimmew 3 Ln! tuuuterrv

LDGNCTQQ. VA U11

JAN 29 1998

9?
o LUME 96, N0. 12

SAB presents the

QTEKEK 3%

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

student s

King:
EK
9

-tum lﬂht

ught by police

New Kappas on the Block

Betsy Green, P/ii Photo Editor

W The ladies of Kappa Kappa Gamma took second prize with this rendition of "Step by Step" at last year’s Lip Synch
contest. The 10th Annual Lip Synch will be held tonight at 9 p.m. in the Student Activities Pavilion.

BY, MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

The United States Supreme Court is pursuing a
.politicalagendainstead ofinterpretingthe Constitu-

’ i on, said former Supreme Court nominee Robert

ork Tuesday night at Lee Chapel.
Bork, who is the author of The Tempting of
- merica and is now the John M. Olin Scholar in
Legal Studies at American Enterprise Institute, spoke
‘on how the modern Supreme Court is impacting
culture and how it has increasingly drifted away
om the original meaning of the Constitution.

, Bork’s visit was sponsored by Contact, the Fed-

. 'ﬂillSt Society, the Student Bar Association and the
Frances Lewis Law Center at Washington and Lee.
Bork has taught Constitution Law at Yale Law
School, served as Solicitor General, and as Circuit
Court Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the

a ; District of Columbia Circuit.
1»

In 1987, President Ronald Reagan nominated
Bork to the Supreme Court. The Senate Judicial
Committee rejected him, and conservates believe
the rejection was based on his political ideology.

W&L holds 10th Lip Synch Contest

He said there has been a decline of the judiciary
independence of the Supreme Court and to a general
disregard to the original intent of the Founding Fa-
thers.

“The Constitution is the one trump card in Ameri-
can politics,” he said. “In most law schools, the liberal
view of law is far ahead.” ‘

He argued that most law schools and schools in
general have become politicized. He said there is a
war in the culture.

He pointed to the recent controversy at Stanford
University when an alumni offered o donate $25
million to set up a Western Civilization course. The
university rejected the offer.

“We all know that Western Civilization is racist,
sexist, homophobic, and imperialist—not like those
Third World cultures,” Bork said as the audience fell
out in laughter.

He said today’s universities are quite hostile to the
values of Western Civilization. People have lost a
shared moral perspective, an agreement about what

.direction America should be headed.

The Supreme Court is at the center ofthese culture
wars. VMl isjust one example ofthe many cultural
questions that the Court has taken up that will have a
negative impact on American culture, Bork argued.

BY TARAH GRANT

Phi Staff Writer
‘Q

Tonight Milli Vanilli wanna~bes will take the stage in the
Student Activities Pavilion to compete in the annual Lip

Synch contest.

‘E J his is the tenth year that Washington and Lee will host
tthe contest to raise money for Students Against Rockbridge
lv/‘urea Hunger (SARAH). Last year, SARAH purchased over
"if0Ur tons offood to distribute locally. According to the Lip
jsynch chairperson, senior Emily Hazlett, they hope to top

-that amount this year.

in the past, the Lip Synch has been a favorite activity-of
. fraternity brothers who required their pledges to perform.
S/\RAH’s officers realize the importance of support from
‘he fraternities; however, they aren’t concerned that, unlike
Previous years, pledgeship has already ended. Sophomore
‘Matt O’Brien, one ofthe contest organizers, spoke with each

' C‘

chapter’s president at an lFC meeting.

“The fraternities have always supported us in the
past...they seem to want to continue their support and
participation in Lip Synch since it’s for charity and a long
tradition. As always, the sororities will all be submitting

several acts a piece,” said Hazlett.

Acts will be judged on choreography, lip synch ability,
costume, crowd reaction, and timing. SARAH will be
awarding the top three performances. First prize is $100 and
one (couple) Fancy Dress ticket; second prize is $50 and one
Fancy Dress ticket; third prize is one Fancy Dress ticket.

“We expect this to be our most successful contest ever,
and hope that members of the W&L community as well as

iRobert Bork critiques Supreme Court

He said the Supreme Court is simply pushing a
modern liberal agenda.

He argued that the current Supreme Court is not
conservative and has not been conservative since
1937.

Modern liberalism has erased any commitment
the Supreme Court may have had to the original
intent of the Founding Fathers. Radical individual-
ism has privatized morality and removed the re-
straints that are necessary for a successful civiliza-
tion. Bork cited the abolition ofpraycr in schools and
the expansion of First Amendment rights as ex-
amples.

Radical egalitarianism has replaced the concept
of equal opportunity with equal condition. He con-
tended that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the
Voting Rights of1965 explicitly makes racial prefer-
ence of any kind illegal. Afﬁrrnative action has only
made race relations worse and is tearing this country
apart, he said.

“lfthere is a conservative resurgence, we may get
back to the original meaning of the Constitution.
Unless the Court actually says otherwise, we must
govern ourselves democratically and choose our
own moral codes.”

WOMEN’S $WlMMlNG

RIPS PADFORD 6

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Where in the world is Todd Mat-
thew Rehm?

The Lexington Police don’t know.
His classmates at the W? hington and
Lee School of Law don’t know. And if
the administration knows, it isn’t tell-
rn .

gAn arrest warrant was i. sued when
Rehm ’96L twice failed to appear in
Lexington General District Court to
answer charges that he wrote a bad
check. The check, written for $7.39,
was to Sav A Step Food Mart Inc. of
Lexington. Rehm did not repay his
debt.

Police Chief Bruce Beard said that
if an officer finds Rehm within the
Lexington city limits, he will be physi-
cally arrested and taken to the Rock-
bridge County Jail. Rehm would re-
main there until his Feb. 27 court date.

On Wednesday, Rehm was pros-
ecuted bythe Blue RidgeAnimal Clinic
of Lexington in a civil case. Rehm had
boarded his golden retreiver, Reggie,
at the clinic for four days in July. He
never paid his $32.47 bill.

Rehm did not show up in court to
defend himself, or to pay his bill.

Another civil case was brought
against‘ him last year by Franklin Wise
of Natural Bridge, this time concern-
ing unpaid rent. The case was settled
before the Nov. 1 court date.

Wise refused to comment on the
case.

JANUARY 26, 1996

Notonly is Rehm’s name appearing
on court dockets, but it is also appear-
ing near the cash registers of down-
town Lexington businesses.

Aﬂyerdistributed by the Lexington
Downtown Development Association
reads: “ATTENTION! We have re-
ceived notice from a member of the
Washington and Lee Financial Rela-
tions Committee that a member of the
’96 W&L Law Class is passing insuf-

ficient funds checks in town.” It then _

lists Rehm’s name and law school car-
rel number.

LDDA Executive Director Jennifer
Dalla Vecchia said that FRC Chairman
Keith Beckerle ’97 visited her in No-
vember to tell her Rehm was passing
bad checks to local businesses. After
speaking with Beckerle, the LDDA
drew up and distributed the ﬂyer.

Also known as the Cold Check Com-

mittee, the FRC funds checks bounced .

by students to area merchants, then
collects the money from the students
themselves. The committee makes it
easier for students to write checks in
town, since the merchants know they
are backed by school funds.

When asked if the FRC was inves-
tigating Rehm, Beckerle said he could
not comment.

In addition, Executive Committee
President Keith Benedict could not
comment on any EC disciplinary ac-
tion that has been or will be taken
against Rehm.

~seelREHM, page 2

‘i

Death at VMI raises
concerns at colleges

BY DAN ODENWALD
P/zi Executive Editor

College students often believe they
live in a vacuum where they are imper-
vious to nature’s nightmares.

Last week’s death of a fourth-class
Virginia Military lnstitutecadetproved
thatdisastercanand,indeed,does strike
without reservation. Eighteen year-
old Scott Hickey died from the bacteria
that causes meningitis.

According to Washington and Lee
Director of Health Services, Dr. Jane
Horton, the cadet died when the bacte-
ria spread into his bloodstream. The
ensuing infection caused fever, chills,
nausea, muscle aches, bruising, and
shock. Hickey was finally killed by a
heart attack resulting from his shock.

The bacteria that causes meningitis
resides in the throat of human carriers.
Up to 15 percent of the population
carries the bacteria, yet few are ef-
fected. An unusually weak immune
system, perhaps under stress from an-
other disease like the ﬂu or even a
common cold, will be unable to ﬁght
off the bacteria.

Horton maintains the possibility for
further infections is slight.

“Most outbreaks are sporadic and
come out of the blue,” said Horton.
“Usually stricken patients have no other
contact with those already infected.”

Given the unlikely chance ofspread,
W&L officials decided not to alert the
student community.

The cadet had been on base foronly

four days and had no direct contact
with any W&L students, said Horton.
Studies show that only four to seven
direct transfers ofthe bacteria occur for
every 1000 cases. The statistics for
second-hand exposure are even more
remote.

Nevertheless, college campuses are
prover‘). breeding grounds for meningi-
tis outbreaks. In 1991, the University
oflllinois reported 11 cases of menin-
gitis and three deaths. A year later, the
University oflowa reported five cases.

The concern was so great that the
American College Health Association
distributed a manual to college health
officials on managing meningococcal
disease in college populations.

The unusualoutbreak onthelllinois
and Iowa campuses may be prompted,
in part, by the nature of communal
living. Students whose bodies already
battle poor nutrition, alcohol binges,
and lack ofsleep, are in a compromised
position when fighting off the bacteria
that causes meningitis.

Theliving conditions at V.M.l. may
increase the chances of further out-
break. They are unique in that all
fourth-year students, or “rats,” live in
the barracks. The proximity of living
space and shared facilities provide a
better environment for the spread of
disease.

Despite this, Horton said that most
new cases will appear a week after
diagnosis oftheoriginalvictim. Those
at V.M.l. who had contact with Hickey
before his death were treated with an-
tibiotics.

local citizens will come out to join our students, enjoy the

a press release.

advance at the W&L snack bar.

show, and support the local food pantries,” said Jerry
Darrell, director of food services and advisor to SARAH, in

Doors will open at 8:30 p.m. and the show will begin at
9 p.m. Admission is $5 at the door, or $4 if purchased in

,.,,r»''‘'‘“°‘« ‘
,.-:w"; e

P/ii file photo

The communal living at VMI is causing concern over exposure to the meningitis bateria.

  
    
     
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
   

PAGE 2

The Ring-tum Phi. J anuarv 26. 1996
NEWS

New Liberty an unexpected innovation

was hardly a problem.”

In the end, with
Steinmetz’s help, the univer-
sity paid about $10,000 to
complete the entire conver-
sion to a system worth around
$40,000.

The new Liberty brings the
W&L system up from 96
megabytes of memory to 256
megabytes, and has improved
the speed of processes being
performed as well.

BEYOND

THE BLUE RIDGE “’9ii5-3?i‘?i5T““

Washington and Lee Com-
puting has installed a new ma-
- 0 chine to replace the old Liberty
Cllnton Speaks on 1'eS01V1Ilg that had beenthe basisofnearly
all networking on campus. On
a - Friday, December 29, a new
party differences In address Liberty, .. brand new Hewlett
Packard 9000 D-class server,
replaced the old. Yet Hewlett

 

Washington, D.C.—ln his State of the Union Address on Tuesday, Packard’ the maker ofthe new “we had an initial dou.
President Clinton focused primarily on the domestic issues which are at the Liberty, did not announce the blihg ofspeed, which was dis.
root of the average American’s worries these days. imroduoﬁon of its D_C1aSs appointing,” said Stuckey,

Clinton emphasized the goals which he and the Republicans share, such Server um“ the week of lamp “But then we realized that we
as budget and welfare reform, while reiterating his methods of achieving my 22. were not correctly utilizing
these goals. He proposed few new programs, and instead concentrated on The Story of how W&L go‘ the new dual piocessoh Us.
the cutsthat he says must be made withinthe federal government to achieve in on an innovative product ing the dual processor, Lib.
a smaller, more efficient government that will gain the trust ofthe people. before it was released to the city is at least eight times as

The President again encouraged the Republicans to set aside major public almost rivals the Story fastas before, Oui-load aver.
differences of opinion on the budget issue and to agree to his version of a ofthe unknown Student whose age’ or the number of pm.
balanced budget in order to avoid further federal shutdowns. courtesy to a campus visitor cesses put on hold while 0th.

resulted in the donation of the
Doremus Gymnasium. Chuck

Daytono‘AccordS ignored  Steinmetz, a Hewlett Packard

ers are being performed, has
declined at peak periods from
the old average of 30 to an
average of .56 blocked pro-
cesses. The effect on perfor-
mance has been electric.”
According to Hewlett
, Packard, the new D-class ma-

engineer, was visiting Lee
Chapel a few years ago and
° ' ° decided that he would stop by
Musllms’ Serbs In Bosnla the computing office to see if
' there wasanythingthey needed.

Obravac Bosnia In light of refusals by both Muslims and Serbs to Since then’ he has been work‘ chines Offersiandardlmemel

. i _ . . - - - 'l' , ' -

comply with the terms of prisoner release set in the Dayton~-Accords, the ing ‘t'Viin in: °3niP“t: ‘3t0i\i;/Pg? Eﬁgiiigéigtg Ofjigirslsgla 
United States is threatening to rescind the relief funds and military training ing 0 inn ° Sure 3

q _ . .v . P
promised“) BoSma_ getswhateverhelp he isable to Sewing ‘3aP3biiiiiY, C

  
     
    
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
    
 
  
   

On Tuesday, an elderly Serbian woman released the Muslim woman Offer‘ . . glggéer Proﬁﬁittlgrt for agtfd
whom she had held hostage in her basement for nearly three years. The _ so when Steinmeiz foiind deconﬁ [nation amomati
imprisonment is said to have been in response to the imprisonment of the niinseif °n ine team W‘_’ik_'ng memor g a C degnocatiom
Serbian woman’s own daughter who still has not been released by her on Opeiniing 5)/Sisin Opiiniiza‘ block mliefmi Corfu “On ho
Muslim captors. The Muslimsinsist that they will not _release the woman “On for ine new D'°1a_5§ HP lug ing Oftzeintcfml disk
or other high-ranking Serbian officials until they obtain information 9000» ne ngiiied iiini ini5 new §0ﬂ=>gO“</vepoff raceful Shut’
concerning thousands of Muslims missing from Serb-held towns. f3°inP“i“’i: n0“’ being ioiiied 35 dowgs Should gower be 105

The Dayton Accords call for unconditional prisonerrelease ratherthan inwi for an affordablev em‘ a muhbhanne? in ut/out U‘
prisoner exchange, and officials say that the refusal of both sides to honor Cieni Internet and World wide . , I . hp h ph
these terms could be a sign of continuing trouble in Bosnia. web Server’ might be Some‘ Betsy G’°°"’P’" Phom Edm” S“bSY5“".i‘ forhlg en mug

thing W&L could use. . . put, are ideal for Web. serv

.As is its usual practice, Hewlett Packard chose several “testimonial sites” to ers. and feature iihP0i'i3iii iiPg_i3f3ie CiiP3biiii)/- iii 0ih€F_ W0TdS. 3CC0Fdlhg i

. . test the new machine for future marketing purposes. Steinmetz asked Director of Stuckey, “The new Liberty positions us for UNIX capacity for the foreseeabl

Phone Order Olymplc tlcket Computing John Stuckey if W&L would be interested in serving as such a site. future. And some plans, such as setting up local-mailer LAN systemsin th
Along with being able to preview an innovative machine, being a “testimonial dorms, will free up the new system even more.” _

. site” also allowed W&L to purchase the new machine for a large discount. The old Liberty has been converted to “Wisdom,” and continues to serv

Sales t0 begln  Feb. 1 0 “It seemed to us a great opportunity,” said Stuckey. “It required us to convert specialized system functions. Meanwhile, the conversion to the new Liberty -‘

to the new HP—UX operating system a bit sooner than we had anticipated, but that relatively transparent to most users.

Atlanta, GA—With the mail order phase of the: talylrgpic Summer
Games ticket sales over, phone orders will begin on e . . _ _ A __ t I l V 1

Customers may order tickets to various Olympic events, including I " __ - . 1"  ’ " ‘ " , .1,  
volleyball and modern pentathlon, by calling (404)744-1996. Orders may ’ ' ' ~-  r  . ,_ z
be made only with a VISA card.

The 3.7 million tickets which will be made available during this latest
phase ofsales will also include tickets to the preliminary soccer rounds held
at RFL Stadium in Washington, D.C., which will go on sale on Feb. 3. Only

about seven million more tickets will be offered to the public through sales
......... VYIIA wg... a. vaiiuub uiyiiipic uaines iocations in June at Atlanta.

 Women leader
tohold dinner

BY BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

Next Wednesday, some ofthe most powerful wom
Washington and Lee will take a break ‘from their ,
schedules for an evening of entertainments. The eve
Women and Leadership’s annual dinner for women lea
Assistant director ofathletics Cinda Rankin will speak_
dinner will be served January 31 at 8:00 in Evans Di
Hall for $7.00 a person.

Women and Leadership member Alison Oneacre 
the committee that planned the dinner. Oneacre said that
dinner committee has been planning “for a long ti‘
reserving the dining hall, working with W&L Cat 
choosing a speaker, and putting together the guest li

Women and Leadership invited approxi-matel
women who represent a number of important organiz
on campus, including sorority leaders, athletes, W0‘ '
active in community service, and academic leaders. Onéfi
9 was pleased with the “variety ofwomen campus leaders.
Founder S Day honors the guest list. All of the women on the faculty wer‘
invited. Dean of Students David Howison is the only
. , Jan. 19 saw the induction of new members into Omicron Delta Kappa. 'nV3‘:::::)r:,hf,)$?aI}flre'd that me Ur me of {he dime. I
Pictured here, Earle Palmer Brown '44, J .B. Lewis, Alan M. Corwin '62, allow women leaders to come togctlfiei for‘‘s0methingr'
:   Margaret Brouwer, and the Hon. Roscoe B. Stephenson ’43, ’47L. Oneacre is enthusiastic ﬂhouithe Choice Of CindaR

. ’ as a speaker. Oneacre explained that Rankin served o
board that voted to make Washington and Lee co-ed“ ('
. tional. “She is a respected figure on campus who has se
   b  of the changesvsince co-education. It’s a perfect vv‘

y P celebrate Washington and Lee’s first ten years of co

tion,” said Oneacre.

FOX, NHL develop nevv pucki

FOX and the NHL have collaborated to produce a new, more easily seen
hockey puck. Transmitters are placed inside the hockey puck and moni-
tored by sensors in the ice rink. Computer enhancement then allows
television viewers to see a puck surrounded by a blue halo designed to make
it easier on fans who have trouble locating the puck during play. Many are
questioning whether FOX’s latest innovation is more of an annoyance to
hockey viewers than an aid.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

W. Patrick Hinely, W&L Photographer

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
‘weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re- ~REHM»fr°m Page 1
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Although there are many parties who have taken legal action against Rehm,
there are still some who have not.

Animal Clinic ofRockbridge Inc. is still uncompensated for boarding Rehm ’s

dog for three weeks in August. The $191.75 check that Rehm wrote for the clinic

' ' ‘ ’ bounced, and he never re aid them.
Dole crltlclzed  medla9 Margaret Showalter, W[i)‘l0 handles the clinic’s accounts, said that she could not
contact Rehm at the address or phone number he gave. She waited three to four
' ° months before turnin the account over to a collection a enc .

rlvalsi  leaders Faye Bradshaw ofgThomas~C. Bradshaw ProfessionalgPho)iography in Lex-

9 ington said that Rehm gave her a check for about $13 before winter break.
Shortly after Christmas, she was notified by her bank that the check did not clear,
and she was fined.

, The owner of Lexington Laundry, Teresa Dattolo, was also fined after a $9
check from Rehm bounced. Her bank, the Bank ofRockbridge, fined her $20 for
trying to deposit the bad check.

Dattolo said she would rather have lost the money from cleaning Rehm’s
pants than be fined for the check.

“I don’t care about the money,” said Dattolo. “Ifhe didn’t have it—fine. Take
the pants. I don’t want the pants. But, don’t give me the bad check.”

- I In addition to these known Lexington debts, records indicate that Rehm owes

Forbes emerges as  over $1,000 to major credit card companies, and over $150 to other businesses.

According to students, uniformed police officers have been seen in the law
school asking questions regarding Rehm’s whereabouts. A warrant ofdcbt from

. to fr0nt—1'unner  Dole the Blue Ridge Animal Clinic is posted on his cluttered Carrel.

University Registrar Scott Dittman said Rehm is listed in the school’s
computer as being on campus. However, Associate Dean of the Law School

Since giving the Republican response to President Clinton’s State ofthe
Union Address Tuesday night, Bob Dole has been the target of criticism
from the media, his rivals in the race for the Republican nomination, as well
as from Republican leaders across the nation. Many members of the
Republican party seriously doubt that Dole could be able to win in a head
to head race with President Clinton. Political observers cited Dole’s
lackluster delivery and appearance as his major problems.

  
   
   
    

With the New Hampshire primary less than a month away, polls ‘are Mark Grunewald said Rehm is not registered for Winter Term classes. Further-
showing that Steve Forbes has emerged as the clear challenger to front- m0|’C, law Silidehis lhiC|'Vl0W6d h8V€ H0! S06“ Rehm Since Cxam Week in , . . _

_ runner Bob Dole. Many undecided voters have found themselves support- D0C0FhhCf~ . . Rehm S Carrel’ with Warrant displayed on Cabinet 1100
ing Forbes rather than Dole which could be partly attributable to Forbes’ Thiid'Y°ai inw Siiidcni On‘) B3Ti_SCh said that he had 0138505 With Rehm last 
media blitz. But despite Forbes’ gains, Dole remains relatively popular in term, bui 0111)’ Saw him about f0Uf limes _ _ . Marc R8hd0lPh. "Bin in an)’ kind 0fSOCi€ll/political situation, he was teriffic. if
New Hampshire. Many political observers believethat Forbes will end up Second-year law student Dave Carter said that the news of Rehm’s financial was very good at going outand meeting people, making connections, and makir
making serious trouble for Dole without becoming a major contender PF0‘hi0ms dlsiiifhed hm} 7, _ “ . . I friends. llelust liked to be really involved.”
himself. A “I6 was ={LaWT1;e,vi_ew Person. Said Cmr; This Isfomcone who is type- “The best description ofTodd is brilliant,” said Bartsch. “The man is one,

_ goana -retentive. IS is the kind of guy whoiust docsn t let that kind of stuff the smartest pcoplcl ve ever met in my lite. He could appear to not be payi

. . - _ v . attention at all in class, and then the professor would be like, ‘Todd?’, and th

GOP Watch 1S compiled OsIi)“t2\S£)l[i}$ir?:htI(l)l Ssa fl2gl'lCIt21ll]'lfOUblCS, the law students interviewed did have he would‘ come up with this analysis that vvzis so stunning. You_would govq
by Laura Knapp P 8 Y ou im. bcttcr write this stutt down. I want to put it in my exam. Hc’sJust absolute

“Some people might have thought he was quiet,” said third-year law student brilliant.”

Ring—tum Phi, January 26, 1995

JAN .   3 I ,

\

SAB PSENTS THE KING.

  Bela Fleck 

BY CINDIE YOUNG
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Bela Fleck has already been to Lexington.
From the comer of a “downtown” bar (the name
of which he has long since forgotten), Fleck
played his banjo “back around 1980’ ’fora local
audience. "

Now a musician of international recogni-
tion, Fleck returns to town this Wednesday
nightto make his firstappearancewithinthe red
bricks and white columns of W&L.

While that sixteen year interval that has
separated Fleck and Lexington has hardly
changed the narrow streets and thick-walled
buildings ofdowntown and beyond, it has trans-
formed the little-known musician into an inter-
nationally acclaimed artist and the central fig-
ure of a band whose albums seem to belong to
the colloections of not a few W&L students.

Officially titled “Bela Fleck and the
Flecktones,” the band traces its origin to the
phone call of one Victor Lemonte Wooten to
Bela Fleck, nearly a decade ago.

Wooten, then a bassist involved with the

New Grass Revival movement that offers (in
Fleck’s words) “modem soul” from a “bluesy”
band, “got my number,” Fleck explains. He
dialed.
' Over the phone Wooten treated Fleck to a
sampling ofjust what the bass could sound like
under his fingers; such a sound, Fleck recalls,
“blew my mind.”

Playingthe bass “sometimeslikeaflamenco
guitar, sometimes like a banjo player,” and
always well, Wooten impressed Fleck with the

possibility of a sound that was “just amazing.”
Both musicians were enthusiastic about each
other’s work, “and so we got together,” Fleck

. relates. The two enjoyed a “natural sort of

empathy” playing together, and the rest
is...Newcomb’s specialty. '

Over the band’s years together, the musi-
cians have developed a sound that is their own
unique mixture of bluegrass, soul and good ole
rock ‘ri’ roll.

Fleck’s own musical tastes may best explain .

the many dimensions of the band’s sound, as
he’s “got everything” in his personal collec-
tion: “...blues,jazz, Phish, not to mention music
from all over the world.”

Music from the far corners of the globe
indeed holds an important inﬂuence over the
Flecktones, and theband has brushed shoulders
and tapped toes with many a local musician
while whirling though countries of the First,
Second and Third World variety.

Having traveled extensively with the
Flecktones over the last several years, Fleck
speaks of tours through Mongolia, China, ire-
land, the Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, and
South Africa. This introduction to many new
and often different cultures that such traveling
offers leads directly to the band’s tendency
toward experimentation with other sounds and
meanwhile enriching its own.

For all its international inﬂuences and ap-
peal, however, Bela Fleck and the Flecktones
remains a band thoroughly rooted in America.

Easilythe centralinstrumentthroughoutthe
Flecktones’ songs is the banjo, after all, the
longtimeinstrumentofthe American (country)
music tradition.

Perhaps an even more blatant salute to
Americana within the band’s identity, though.

L Li   R

_ trim your reel/o up for that 5 weer eauaa

' CDs that arrive in the office each day. It is herjob, to listen to each new CD, and

BY COURTNEY E. MILLER
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

‘sjisic. It controls my life, it controls your life. Just stop and think a second.
‘Ur radio comes on in the morningjust to get your blood ﬂowing, study music,
,-nething mellow to help you with that English paper you are only writing
...ise you have to take general education credits, and can we forget the parties,
, .;.r'ri DJ to Band, we revolve around Music. ‘
‘~ist fora littlespice to Lexington’s country venue, WLUR brings the students
§hing new, soemthing fresh, something we can party to and study to.
‘he station began broadcasting Sunday, Jan. 21, with a recently repaired
mitter. New DJs and the introduction ofthe College Music Journal (CMJ)
 lights hope to spice up the winter doldrums. Nate Tencza, freshman, will DJ
, ,_ highlights.
' Gtasically the concept ofthis show is based on College Music Journal’s top
Ds. My show will play the top 10 each week,” said Tencza.
;=‘.{)Cl( Director Sarah Swisher hopes that this show will highlight some of the
er music hitting the waves. Most student DJ ’s play the music they like and
Tzmiliar with, CMJ highlights hopes to introduce music with a wider interest

ifisher feels the most difficult aspect of herjob is keeping up with all the new

screen out those that suck and contain offensive language. This can be quite a
challenge because they receive up to 5 a day.
Tencza enjoys the time he spends at WLUR. It was something he had thought
about doing in high school, and when he arrived at W&L, he eagerly volunteered
to DJ a rock show in the fall.
Swisher got involved because she didn’t want to lose touch with current music
trends while stuck in Lexington. She feels: it gives something back to the
community because there are not a lot of outlets for various musical tastes.
Since becoming Rock Direetor, a position that she doesn’t’ plan on giving up
any time soon, Swisher has introduced new shows. Besides the regularly
scheduled shows like Morning Magazine, she has introduced a section entitled
“My favorite Band”. This show offers individuals, or groups of friend to have
a two hour block once during the semester to highlight a favorite band
The other programs that are popular among the students include Morning
Magazine, a morning show that runs from 7 am to 9 am. In the afternoon
students catch the Breakthrough show which plays most of the modern music,
making waves across Air America; Many new stations are introducing the newer
alternative/rock music. The great thing is that often times WLUR will play music
months before it goes mainstream.
There are around 100 students currently involved with WLUR. Others
interested in having a show should fill out an application to become a backup DJ. \
Backup DJ’s are used to replace those students who don’t show up for shows.

:,,atest Tarantino movie suffers

rom an extreme duality complex

‘ BY KIRK SUSONG
PHI REviEwER

’3OI7l Dusk Till Dawn - frik

‘he three Quentin Tarantino which have successfully reached production are all fantastic -
..ervoirDogs, Pulp Fiction, and TrueRomance. They combine humor, tension and a street-"wise
of dialogue that is unparalleled in the current industry.

‘o it was with tremendous anticipation that I went to see his newest screenplay, directed by
Rodriguez of Desperado fame. Unfortunately, F romDusk T i11Dawn is a sincere let-down.

E‘he story revolves around two murdering brothers trying to escape to Mexico. On their way
:l‘l and Richie Gecko (George Clooney and Tarantino himself) kidnap ex-preacher Jacob Fuller
rsrvey Keitel), his son Scott (Ernest Liu) and his daughter Kate (Juliette Lewis), who are
-Harking on an RV vacation across the border. They head to a cheap Mexican bar for bikers and
. j(‘ers, which turns out to be a vampire hangout; they must fight their way out or lose their lives

“ a process.

his film suffers from some sort of multiple-personality afﬂiction; In the first halfof the film,
ocent store clerk is set afire, an unsuspecting policeman is shot, and a mother offour is raped
illed. The tone isn’t exactly grave, but the events are realistic and tense. The ﬂlm seems to
trying a tradition of crazy couples on cross-country killing sprees that stretches from

ds up through Kalifornia and Natural Born Killers (which Tarantino wrote the screenplay

at refuses to acknowledge the production because it was removed from his direction).
second half ofthe film couldn’t be more different. Though everyone is fighting for their
‘gainst an onslaught of vampires, the rhetoric, the gore and the general silliness is obviously
..dy of many B-movie horror flicks.
the film’s first part we explore the brothers’ complex relationship, and the dialogue probes
choses which afflict them. The preacher loses faith in God when his wife is suddenly and
‘ally killed. The issues are complex and demand a full and rich treatment.

the second halfofFromDusk TillDawiz, by contrast, is a motley collection ofliumorous asides

and laughable action sequences. The dialogue is abrupt and extreme, talking about the “legions
of the living dead,” “hordes of hell-hounds,” and the like. The special effects are melting faces,
bursting eyeballs, and exploding bodies - all in special ‘icky ’ Technicolor. It becomes not so much
a parody as a well-produced imitation. The result of this change of pace is a confused movie which

perplexes us instead of being whole.

On top ofthis is the acting. Typically, Tarantino is atrocious - so painfully bad he pulls down
the rest ofthe film. His saving grace here is the relative silence his character remains in. Similarly
with many ofthe other actors, such as Harvey Keitel and Juliette Lewis; they are believable neither
as real character nor as imitations. They are simply strung together stereotypes that are not

amusing.

Luckily there are two actors who stand out from the pack in From Dusk Till Dawn. One is
Cheech Marin, continuing the come-back that he has been enjoying recently. Here he actually

plays several different character; perhaps surprisingly,

characters.

he is best when portraying “serious”

' ‘The other is George Clooney. The ER star is making his first real leap to the big screen, and
it is a tremendous success. He carries off his role with poise, depth and even magnetism. lfthis

is any indication, it shouldn’t be long before he leaves TV behind for the biv

movies.

gger world of the

Robert Rodriguez’s direction is lackadaisical, and even a little boring. His first major

production, Desperado, established his fondness for slow-moving bodies ﬂying through the air,

a rich palette, and extraordinary camera angles. In From Dusk Till Dawn, he is more restrained
and calmed down. The result is pleasant, and it bodes well that Rodriguez is capable of a less

ﬂamboyant piece.

So who is at fault for the film’s problems? We must assign that to Tarantino himself. although
there arestill a number oftrademark Tarantino touches in the film (lots of cuising, for example),
it s missing the cohesiveness which so characterized his earlier films, especially Reservoir Dogs.
Its almost as ifTarantino wanted to have the fun of making a spoof while still trying to be taken
as a “serious” writer. As a result his characters are interesting but undeveloped, and the scenario

is both overwrought and poorly explored.

lam a really big fan ofTarantino, yet l still must recommend you not spend your time or money
on From Dusk Til[Daw/z. Some slow evening check it out on videotape,just so you’ll know why
people are talking. But then watch Pulp Fiction one more time to remind yourselfwhy Tarantino

is so wonderful.

is the unexpected answer to a question foremost
in the minds of new and old Flecktone-listener
alike: Why the banjo?

Fleck answers such a question easily, sim-
ply pointing to (what more American?) the
theme song for television’s TheBeverly
Hillbillies.As a kid in New York City, Fleck wa
s charmed by the instrument, and its appeal was
reinforced by a popular song ofthe day featur-
ing the banjo from the movie Deliverance.

“A lot of people started taking lessons,”

Fleck recalls, on the instrument of American
folklife, and he was an enthusiastic member of
that lot.

Fora musician drawing so unabashedly from
the American tradition, then, the deep respect
Bela Fleck feels for his native country is not too
surprising, a respect in many ways strength-
ened by his travels to foreign lands.

Unwilling to divorce himselffrom an adjec-
tive typically associated with rock ’n’ rollers,
“disillusioned” (with respect to the American
Dream, broadly defined), Fleck nevertheless
generously professes his love of“certain free-
doms” that only American soil offers.

The musician of the world has seen many
problems within the great system that is
America, and yet he has come to appreciate no
less “how much more the system does work
than doesn’t.”

Bela Fleck takes every question seriously,
whether about the origins ofthe Flecktones, his
own influences, or his outlook on the world
around him, and his answers strike the listener
as both generous and honest.

Little wonder, then, that the albums upon
which his name appears likewise offer a gener-
ous portion of talent and honest ’Cl’2ll"‘iSmZtll-
ship—and, oh yeah. good music.

Photo by Cindie Young, Phi Features Editor

RQucnUns
Other

Reservoir Dogs

One of Tarantino's best films, it is shot
out of sequence, and the dialogue is witty
and direct. The soundtrack is incredible
and Tim Roth and Harvey Keitel give supe-
rior performances. We all wanted to be Mr.
Blue,butinthis world,some ofus need to be
Mr. Pink. The torture scene with the razor
and the car, will make anyone's blood chill.

Pulp Fiction

Not only does every house on campus
keep a copy in the VCR, but this jewel ofa
film launched John Travolta from the mun-
dane Look Who's Talking to his incredible
performance in Get Shorty. Pulp Fiction has
kept us all wondering what was in the brief-
case, and whether or not our parents would
let us sepnd a summer ‘in Amsterdam.

True Romance

This Tarantino classic stars Christian
Slater as an Elvis obsessed comicstore clerk
who falls in love with a prostitute (Patricia
Arquette). The two go on a cross country
spree.‘ The most memorable scene is the
confrontation between gangster (Christo-
pher Walken) and Slater's father played by
Dennis Hopper.

Four Rooms

Since Tarantino only directed and wrote
the last of this four part sketch, some peole
may not count it as a real film, but I loved it.
It is modeled aftera Hitchcock classic where
Steve McQueen is involved in a finger
losing car exchanging deal. The other three

, sketches are worth the price of admission. 1

i.

PAGE 4

@112 iting-tum lﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

 You are what you read

Sometimes editors goof.

Suffocated by work, crunched by deadlines, and
deprived of sleep, we occasionally mess up.

In the past few editions of The Ring—tum Phi, we
have run an advertisement which no one really
noticed. The ad boasted of the Famous U.S.
W0men’sAlpine Ski Team Diet. Proudly sprawled

, across the top was the eye-catching proclamation,
“Lose 20 pounds in two weeks.” The ad admon-
ishes dieters to indulge in specially formulated
“chemical foods” as an alternative to starving

s themselves. Ironically, a few inches above the ad
was a General Note informing students of support
group meetings for students with eating disorders.

The odd pairing provides ample fodder for any
sociology major writing a thesis on the media and
weight obsession. I

V The American fascination with weight and
(is. weight loss invades nearly all aspects of
our society. ‘ I

Everywhere we turn we are confronted with

Madison Avenue’s ideals: the hourglass figure, the
“ ﬂawless skin and perfect face.

No wonder Americans hate their bodies
so much. A

We compare ourselves to the Baywatch
beauties (real and plastic) who run around the
beach half—naked.

People purge themselves to look like the beauti-
ful models in this week’s Sports Illustrated Swim-
suit Issue.

Joan Rivers goes under the knife on her popular _

, television talk show to rid herself of those‘‘nasty’’

‘ bags under her eyes.

The media convince Americans to worship
‘ieauty. And the media convince Americans to

., believe thatjwejdonot possess it. Hence, we buy
their products, watch their sliows, and read '
their triagaziries.

_,_ Of course, the media are not the only culprits.

, They are not alone in their irresponsibility. Surely,

L other factors aggravate the problem. The most
frightening part about our editorial oversight was
that we didn’t even realize its absurdity. We have
become part of the problem because we have
internalized our culture’s impossible demands for

.. our bodies. Like most Americans, we seem to
have become incapable of separating myth from
truth. For that, we are truly sorry.

““* Quote of the Week

“I'm just going to put this number here because
I'm a nerd.”

—A junior C -school major doing
his tax accounting homework

I

The Rig-tum Phi, January 26, 1993» l

GENERATION X

nnanurou Lax

(new year : new cartoons + new

GENERATION v LEX

- ;..;....;;.i.s... st...-' v.‘ .: .".;.....;;..:.;_r:.—3

Government: a fresh perspectiv

MY VIEW
Nova Clarke, ’96

Can you imagine being a tourist in
the US. during the past couple of
months? I was thinking about that on
my daily trips to the Fort Lauderdale
airport before I finally made it back to
Lexington. I ended up talking to a lot
of tourists who were stranded in Ft.
Lauderdale and couldn’treally do any-
thing because their leases on their rental
cars was expired and there were very
few nice hotel rooms. They hadn’t
been able to go to the Everglades be-
cause ofthe government shutdown and
now they were stuck because the last
remaining superpower couldn’t deal
with a little snow. I was reading a great
column in which the author pointed
out that novone needs to build nuclear
weapons to destroy America-theyjust
need to launch a weather satellite that
would cause constant snow or just
dump massive amounts of fake snow
on Washington DC. By the time
Marion Barry got Congress and the
army dug out-England could have re-
claimed us as a colony.

I think a more interesting perspec-
tive would be that of a government
official from some small country that

the U.S. was trying to convince to
become a democracy after years of
dictatorship. Say you are Joe Execu-
tive, the president ofthis hypothetical
country. You’re pretty happy that you
made it into the country the day before
the December government shutdown.
Bill, your liaison at the State Depart-
ment, tells you
that you are

Bill has told you to listen to the

' arguments being made and that will

give you an idea about what is impor-
tant in a democracy. It seems fairly
simple, the US wants to make sure that
we are not running a huge debt. This
seems fairly reasonable; but, you took
some economics and history and you

realize that they

are basically ar-

probably the last
foreign official
to be given this
treatment be-
cause the pro-
gram is not cov-
ered under the
continuingreso-
lution that Con-
gress has
passed. As part
ofyour tour and
education about
‘the nature ofde-
mocracy, you
are allowed to wander around Con-
gress and listen to real elected repre-
sentatives at work. Unfortunately,
since all anyone is doing is arguing
about the budget, all you see is con-
gressman appearing on TV to de-
nounce the other side. There aren’t
even any good brawls like the Tai-
wanese Parliament has.

take

77

It seems the con-
gressmen want to
away more
money from the poor
and pass it on to the
upper class in the
form of taxbreaks.

guing about an
unknown future.
Everything can
chainge in seven
years and that
sometimes it is
good economic
policy to run a
_ deficit. You read
the newspapers
andwatchTVand
see that all of

employees have
been turloughed. Unfortunately they
seem pretty essential to you, after all
tourism is a big part of the economy of
your country and now with the pass-
port offices closed, no one can come
down, there goes the economy. Bill
asks you whatwould have happened in
your country before democracy. “Well,
the government workers who were not

these“non-essen_-v ,
tial” government —'

being ‘paid who probably have bands’ "’9-
together and overthrown the govern 
merit.” Bill mumbles something aboll
that being a good idea.

There is anotherthing that you don
understand. Back when you were Ill
military dictator of your country, y. _,
pretty ‘much ignored the poor and 2l
the aid that came to the country went',.,
you and your friends and the 0' E‘?
knew betterthan to complain. Bill tel 
you that in a democracy money sho
not be kept by the government and
freedom of speech is essential. H0 
ever, you see that congressmen 3 _
getting paid while the employees 3*
not getting paychecks and this see '

a lot like your original system. Pl -'
nothingis open, even ifno one hadlr
money to visit the museums in yo 
country, they were always open  5.
the rich tourists. Plus it seems I U
congressmen want to take away m _'z’
money from the poor and pass it on ‘w
the upperclass in the form oftaxbre r

WITCH UIC EUIPOTIS Uptill arte, I

huge snowstorm you head back to
country. Before you leave thov
you tell Bill, “Hey, I’ve decided:
with American democracy, from

I’ve seen, it’s not that much diffe
from the dictatorship I had before,
USIA came and told me about dc .
racy.”

_...4-1;.-;_,.._.<...; <:....-  .

flirt ‘ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Michael Hewlett
Christine Gamavish
Hillary Coombs

Executive Editors
Associate Editor
News Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Friitnr Scott Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor ............................................................. ..Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Photography Editor .... .. ‘ Betsy Green
Editorial Caﬂonni r Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace

Robert Nelson
Doug Gertner
Jennifer Grant
Anne Alvord

Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertisement Composition Artist

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

TheRing-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060 -
E-mail plri@wlu.cdu

Thou shalt not censor thy neighbo

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98

Ah, those elusive little civil liberties. We can
never find a precise line between what is permissible
and what is not. For example, is flagburning a crime
against the national government, or is it protected
“speech”? Liberals apparently favor speech ahead
of patriotism, and conservatives apparently prefer
patriotism. But neither side can offer any clear
reasons for their preferences.

The issues become much simpler if they are
treated as issues of property rights. For example,
ﬂagbuming is permissible if the burner uses his own
ﬂag and burns it on his own or a willing party’s
property. The person who owns a printing press has
the right to print anything at all.

The catch comes when we deal with government
property, such as public schools or streets. Here we
find a strong argument for privatizing schools, streets,
and other areas of government domain: the issue of
speech would become much clearer. Private schools
could say whateverkinds of prayers they choose, and
private streets could allow whateverkinds of demon-
strations they wish. Instead, we have a jumbled
system in which competing interests battle for their
“rights” to do anything at all on government prop-
erty' zit

' Politicians have extended this confused system to
the private sector unfortunately. For example,
ﬂagburning is still an issue for conservatives. Also,
the War on [Some] Drugs still rages, with little
success and much harm. Internet censorship is

imminent.

For all liberals’ ranting about speech and conser-
vatives’ alleged defense of property rights, neither
side is consistent on the issue.

Liberals applaud draconian environmental re-
strictions, which have jailed people for filling in
puddles on their property with soil. One Hungarian
immigrant in Texas was ordered to construct a sign

Libertarians have proved
the only true defenders of
civil liberty. A property-
rights basis for civil liber-
ties provides a consistent
stance that liberals and con-
servatives lack.

by the road, delineating his crimes and apologizing
to the state. This sort of police-state, mind-control
tactic is reminiscent of the Soviet Union or Nazi
Germany.

And the conservatives’ beloved War on [Some]
Drugs has all the marks of a failed government
policy. Because of the government’s continued
failure to control drug importation and use, they
have stepped up their coercive measures. Using the
infamous RICO statutes, federal agents may now

seize the assets of innocents, simply because so
one may have used them in a drug operation,
warrants are no longer acquired for many"
searches. We’ve heard of Randy Weaver‘
Waco, but there are stories many of us haw.
heard about. One political candidate in Caliﬁi
had. his ranch raided on the suspicion of mayrlji.
possession. When he tried to defend his propé
federal agents gunned him down. No m 
was ever found. Just as in the ecohomi
when the government finds it must cover H
takes by imposing more regulations, thew
[Some] Drugs has brought more tyranny’ ,
could have imagined in 1913, when we -imp
our first narcotics laws "

Gun control is another important civil-
issue. Ironically, the allegedly pro-liberty Am
Civil Liberties Union in fact supports gun ‘“
tions. When will we stop focusing on the_
start focusing on the person? Gun (and drii
lations are justifiable only insofar as they, ,

‘children or the insane from possession. P
laws, however, are designed specifically to
discourage gun ownership by all individua
thermore, the government has banned manyi
guns, the kind that would be effective a
foreign invasion or domestic oppression.

not a militia-type paranoiac, nor am I a n
user, but I defend the rights of sane adujl
whatever they want to themselves with tli
property.

In sum, libertarians have proved the o
defendersof civil liberty. Aproperty-rights L
civil liberties provides a consistent stance th li
als and conservatives lack. '

So WHAT IF

r<<»x.>t.

H 3‘.

READ THE RING-TUM PHI. ‘WE'RE§ur(r(€Ai

P0“

xar-I Hor.r.vtraNa5j.is

I.

‘I

' "f‘he Ring-tum Phi, J anuary 26, 1996

 un within the HonorCode boundary

%REEN LAND

Betsy Green

_ ‘I,Greetings from the Winter Term of
:y discontent. We are without a doubt
'f,the midst of the worst time of year at
,;?‘stL. Fall term is fun. It’s the begin-
mg of the year, you get to see friends

:

'1g'u haven’t seen all summer, and

‘L

A

~~'/feryone’s in the back-to-school, smell
.. ew crayons spirit. Spring term is

 ply a time of joy. The weather is

Lautiful and you only have two classes.
pffe is good.
‘Winter term, on the other hand, has
acredeeming qualities. Mock Con and
.§_"are going to be fun, but who has
,- ‘ for that? Every day, the weather
'e'ms colder and my bed seems
rrner. I feel like I should get class

"Llit just for leaving my apartment

..;y morning.
The solution is simple: we’ve gotta
_ put of this place. ,
' {None of us wants to have to leave
(grades; I think everyone at W&L

communtiy, but it

citement, right?

has some higher earning in their future
dreams. And getting kicked out for an
honor violation would not only be a
grim humilation
and a breach of

7?

plain that even statues like to cuddle.
4. Instead of taking your dog to the
hill with you, bring your goldﬁsh.
5. Refuse
to buy a pair of

trust with the en-
tire W&L

would also be no
fun. We need ex-

So with that in
mind, I bring you
Ways to Get
Kicked out of
W&L .Without
Breaking the
Honor Code.

1. Late at
night, go intoTraveler’s former stable/

Lee.

cuddle.

John and Mimi’s garage and urinate.

Knock on the door and insist that Trav-
eler needs to be walked. Point to the

puddle as evidence. Repeat for two
weeks.

2. Vote Democratic,
3. Insist on taking naps in Lee
Chapel, next to the statue of Lee. Ex-

Insist on taking
naps in Lee Chapel,
next to the statue of
Explain that
even statues. like to

khaki pants.

6. Women:
go to class
wearing a
S w e e t b ri a r
s w e a t s h i rt.
Men, do the
same with
H a m p d e n -
Sydney.

7. Park il-
legally until
the amount
you owe in
parking tickets exceeds your tution.
Better still,

8. Make up your own parking tick-
ets. Possible violations you can ticket
for include, “Excessive stickers,”
“Parked Kinda Crooked,” “Bad Tapes
Visibile In Vehicle,” and “Took the
Spot I Wanted.” If the administration
doesn’t kick you out, Baner will make

sure you leave one way or the other.

9. Paint the rotunda of Gaines Hall
hunting orange, “for safety.”

10. Change the screen savers in the
C-school computer lab from “Move
mouse to begin” or whatever it is to
“Help me escape from this hell-hole.”

11. Join the Film Society. Insist on
a Pauly Shore retrospective.

12. Stand outside of the D-hall
petitioning foralimiton the constantly
Unlimited Salad Bar.

13. Weep openly at all times.

14. On each test you take, alter the
honor pledge to read, “On my honor, I
have neither given nor received any
unacknowledged aid onthis exam. May
God have mercy on our souls.” ’

15.’ Refuse to buy a Dave Matthews
CD.

16. Ask the administration to con-

vert the Delt house into your own ‘

“Swingin’ Pad.”

17. Inastudentnewspaper, suggest
that W&L students try to get kicked
out of school.

kg

1-.

 I see THAT «/ou'v,,r
BEEN TELLM/6- 5/pug
DOG /WOU1‘ Mt’ CLASS

not

GENERATION Lax

Is it spring term yet?

United Way and

Alpha Phi Omega

lriteriraternity Council

Pzitihcllettic

other agencies

Sponsored by:

Habitat for Humanity
Minority Student Association
University Federation

Wednesday, January 31, 1996
University Center, Z-4 j_3.m.

a

All students invited

.
x .
t‘ A fﬁj/1 I, '6
v .'.rt.*.*..*.:f?
v .1.»
'5 M.
'- V‘?-3

rt ,;<_ ‘
rwgﬁrvruh

' >5
,.,..-“-i-;-.-,.«.~ v

GENERAL
NOTES

CDPO News

All students are invited to “Ca-
reer Opportunities in International
Business” on February 1st at 4:30
p.m.inthe WilliamsSchoolofCom-
merce, Room 221. Mr. Marvin
Suomi, Executive Vice President
and Director of Strategic Planning
of Kajima International, the world’s
largest construction company and a
graduate of the University of Michi-
gan, with graduate study in thejoint
program of East Asian Studies and
the Woodrow Wilson School of
Public and International Affairs of
Princeton University will be speak-
mg.

There will be a Career Focus
Workshop on Tuesday the 30th of
January at4:00 p.m. in Room 108 of
the University Center. Students
needing help choosing a major or
deciding on ajob search are invited
to attend.

There willbeaninternship work-
shop for students interested in sci-
ence jobs on Thursday, February

1st at 5:00 p.m. in the Career Devel-

opment Office.

Stress Test News

Getthe resultsoftheW&LStress
Test at an interactive program “Cliff
Notes on Stress Management” 7
p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 30, Northen
Auditorium by Walter Childress of
Dow Management Institute.

Volunteer Fair .

Alpha Phi Omega, Intcrfrater-
nity Council, Panhcllenic, Habitat
for Humanity, the Minority Stu-

.dent Association and the Univer-

sity Federation are sponsoring 21
volunteer fair for the United Way
and otheragenciesJanuary3l from
2 to 4 p.m. in the University Cen-
ter.

Recycling

For information on recycling in
Woods Creek contact Jason Ham at
ext. 4459. Buildingsiafnd Ground
personnel will be collecting alumi-
num cans and mixed paper.  yﬂ _

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of Burnt by the Sun
(Russia, 1994), directed by Nikita
Mikhalkov. ,

Screenings will be on Friday and
Saturday,.February 2 and 3, at 8:05

pm. in the Troubadour Cinema.

There is not charge for admission.
This film is in Russian, with En-
glish subtitles.

Burntby the Sun tells the story of
one day in the life ofRussian family
in the year 1936. Their seemingly
idyllic existence-their “day in the
sun”-is slowly undone by inexo-
rable forces, externally by 'Stalin’s '
repression and internally by dark
shadows within the family’s his-
tory. I

Support Crroup

Interested in joining a six-ses-
sion support group for anyone who
has experienced the death ofa fam-
ily member or friend? The focus
will be on learning how to handle
the loss and changes it brings. Call
Health Education at 462-4501 to
sign—up or for more information.

Phi Eta ‘Sigma

Phi‘ Eta Sigma will award na-
tionwide 5 scholarships of $2,000
eachforgraduatestudy duringl996-
7. Graduatingscniors who are mem-
bers ofPhi Eta Sigma are eligible to
apply. Call Dean West-Settle at
X8748 on or before Feb. 9 if you
wish to apply.

I

 Omega would like to 

con grai ulclic their

\

1996Plcdgc Class

Sarah Aimcn
Kelly Benson I
Christine Bragg /lb/Ssol K a zyfman
Megan Carleton Wendy Kimble /
 5ll56lI1I’ldll Carr Veronica Langhofcj‘r ,
X  Leyla C uslcr W
/lllichcllc DczllVcchia K are L lLSl€6j/

,  Megan Davis Anne McElhancy/
 Christy Meade  pg 
Cathy Moore   in it

Rosie M ungcr

‘\

// \
I
I

Ashley Ezghcr
A my Frazier
Dec Garry

Sarahjaycocles
Kdtycjcnhins

HillaryLewiss  /

l

I

\/

\

\\~.._

Amy Grccnhcrg Lydia Nichols

Haley Hall
Mollie Harmon
Mary Hemmer

Claire Parsons
Sarah Rector ‘_
Cassie Shaner ‘H

 Pamela Herbert Megan 5nodgrass’/

 iflizahcrh H ZLSIOI1 Natalie Wcllc  "3
 I Megan Wicdmaicr I

. . ' -.
i mi 4
. ., .‘ .°
. C <‘>.‘4‘s,‘u«’g’u ¢
arnsnfit
, . I must >1»
.'n,t_s . 1. ‘ring’;
H_- ...r, .
< I

PAGE 6

 
   
   
 
  
 
      

 

- ADVERTISEMENTS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1996

 
  
 
   

  

 

 
  

  
   

Do You Want VISA 8; ‘MasterCard Credit Cards? : , ?;;,‘,’*‘,;~";m 5"I§§I_§"§CH BLVD  ca ms E J 033
1 ‘ t ‘ . Now you can tum. hm afthe most recognized and I HA‘LLANnALE. FLOR Inn 33009 i Em, ,,,, ,0 $2S(‘,‘5‘3";'}§,5,§_'°,‘§‘,’,‘§,‘:,‘,,,, ,0, C f.
accepted cruﬂt audit in Ha  3'  . I I Shipsoi-Land-Tourcompanies+WorldTril, 1
Cflldll §l!1!._.'Il[ yﬂuf 1'DlII¢..' EV KI , ME , ' | . , . . Seasonal and F ll-'l"'me em lo . j
cmznrror HAVE nan»  ncrwn name: , _ ""“"“_"5""’““5"'5'm‘_‘"$"°,‘:.""“ : able. Forinro c:n= X P mm ‘*7’ '
We ,, I“, , ,. mt M , M ' Caxdaapproved Immediately. wow ouammnsam ' 206 971-3550exn 053421
decent and need for-— ID-EJOKS-—-DEPARTHIENT [  '
5'l7O}1E—1t1l1'1OlVlwEtﬂ‘ER‘fAlNlIlIEtTr— I '

EMEEEFCY (M$1—TCKEI3—HEST  ’ I ake upto$25-$45 per hour leaching basiccom,‘ .
. . ADDRESS . , , . ..
ﬁQ'['E£5._[9g(}'_rE1__3_..(m5...CAR R§N'[‘g5_ ‘ ﬂ ational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan "

z I :3 t t ‘ REpA"§___AND -It} Bun‘, YOUR CR1‘-r "RA-I-‘Hal 1   __  I Korea. Many employers provide room & I

. r I 4 ,. | '

EVICE5 1. wig‘ H mm: "0 tum do-ms! ' swag“? !'”'°””§ Eu 5'5’ I
S - R ’ ' - VI SIGNATURE : .
,, . . . . . .
L guts! “chm iln credit checks! 9 _ _

"N L V l 9 115!-".’=%2f-V ‘ﬁg: , '0 3'53‘-3""fft.¥ dﬁlmﬁitlf ' ' Wm Iataamt:-at In mmsieunctsndcauau at |l.u!lt10hn$|nkmJ\thm1 inc. ' (Hie King tum ?ﬁl' 

V ' . . ‘dull 6.51 ‘I: _ I van. in mgaumxs u-sdznudrditllsn |1!\JLJn¢: um visa:-ucmuuma I 98 ears oldamf we still

9 I  ‘d 9 I am '9 SE“ ""5 CW9“ 70”” .3 um nus nnnisu coupon room: I y 1 

I 1 15¢,’ a . . Tova CREDIT ‘cmus Jute WHT inc! | 1 1 ' . . , COW 07153 £1 Wet

 

 

  
 
    

  NECESSARY!
DETAILS: RUSH LONG SASE  
EUR!)

said:-E2. 21:5; .1
1861 1:~I..F‘EnER.a.I..  g
A r«xcI.‘:r$g§g)¢)I) .»:§;- ’_33ﬂ__T_-L-’,

Put your face in the 13361-Dunk!

' A

<—

 

unlit  H.

‘hmmmmmmn

Drop off pictures ofyou and yourfriertds infront of

        

Carol Caulkir1’s officeiri the University Center

Please limit contributioinsto those taken during the 1995-96 school year.

SUMMER JOBS AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE

Counselors for Summer Scholars
July 3 - August 3, 1996
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school
students in Graham—Lees dormitory and plan evening and weekend

28, 1996.
Special Programs Resident Assistants
‘ June 12 — August 3, 1996
The Office of Special Programs employs four W&L students to serve as
hosts/ hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
management and housekeeping, receptions, and transportation. Appli-
cation Deadline is March 15, 1996.
For further information, please Contact the Office of Special
, Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.

activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline is February v

Rewarding. exciting summer for college sophomore and older
students. - camp counsellor positions available in the Colorado
Rockies. Backpacking, Western riding. water activities. natural
sciences and many outdoor programs. Write: Sanborn Western
Camps. PO. Box 167. Florissant, CO 80816

     
 

Don ’t Let
Your Student
Go Hungry

 

 

Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

G009
WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail tor
§.ﬂ&!%l0I't&l company! Free 
supplies. postage! 

gelling! Bonuses! Start
trnmediatalt Genuine
  opportunity! U§'tS.A.S.E.‘: A

 cuc. suzma 215
1861 u.aEnEnaL any
 ¥0LLYHO0D.FL 33o2o

  

}i.lvi§‘</’~;°v' L

$Attention All Students$ lg
FREE Money is currently available for College Students Nationwide. Over $6 Billion iin 31 
is now available from private sectro grants & scholarships. All students are eligible to "
receive some sort of aid, regardless of grades, income, or parents’s income. Let us help yo f
For more information, call: _ ’

  

Student Financial Services

I-

. 8 am — 3 pm - Monday
:3 am - 10 pm — Tuesday — Thursday
:8 am - 11 pm — Friday - Saturday
9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
l All you can eat $4.99

Thursday —

10% offfood — with student ID
Friday — Seafood Nite -

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,

2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

Everyday Muffin:& Cup of Coffee $1.50
_ W I (8‘am,-910 am)
Daily Lunch Special with Drink‘$4'.50

19 W. Washi.rIigt_o_r1_S_t._,_L'e_xin-gtgn, VA 24450

Restaurant and
}[055ie’sLounge

  

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center

Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to ?

Restaurant 11-00 '1 m to 0-30 n m

/. E)./ll. L77” 

TEACH ENGLISH lN KORE/\— Fosltlono available   l
'  found l:’ll7

degree rea_t:reo. U5 49*&.50()—25,4OCl/yr, ~
airfare prowdcai. Send rcourne, copy o‘ 5 ‘

 

L/l "if/1m .. ,
_ ma ena. copy o‘ n.a55:7or: to:
bok Jl Coprooratlon, Chan Bang Bing, 15443 Dﬂrnaung Dong, <;,ng \g,m Gd,
Seoul, Korea 155090.

TEL: O’ll»82~2»- 55—._JOB6i”i~8?'7\

 

F’/~ /: "'71 P0,’) -720 .<:f,zis{/.'if%.f,?Cly

.7/74¢’!/z&ce

HARDWARE STORES ‘’

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. — Sat. 8:30 am. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1 — 5 p.

.113. Nelson St., Lexington

would you like to spend the summer working \ 

of (1 Wyoming Guest Ranch? Ours is on
14®,@®@ acres in the Medicine Bow Mountains,
next to a wilderness area. we serve mo
guests at a time with dstoff of 85. _ If you are ,1

available from about June 1 to September 8 or_’—‘;;'

the end of September, and enjoy both out-
doors ond being of service to others, we’d like 
to set up an interview. For an application or

more information: Bob or Margie Howe, A Bar A

Ranch, P.O. BOX 1049 Conifer, CO 80433 (353)

463-2186;

~ ; .~;:r ~_  ,4 .,-1

   
   
       
 
      
 
     

 
       
     
  
 

      
   
  

 

838-1950) or e—moll obol;ggg_p_g,b_faVqnlfoyn

. -..-A

‘.
iii}

to

Milhge Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1996 S

}7IT7-[LETES O5‘ ‘Z7{£ ‘WEEK

- Bunsize Or Lite Meat

yoga‘    Ball Park

‘ _  Franks

Josephine Schaeffer V C0511 1400119)’
Women’s Indoor Track Wrestling

Chances are goodthat you’ve seen this pic- Looney had an outstanding performance
ture here before. Saturday at the Washington and Lee Wres-
lt may be a new sport, but it is the same story tling Invitational. ~
for Schaeffcr. After tearing up cross-country Theseniorco-captain demoIishedthecom-
courses in the fall, she switched to indoor track petition in his first two matches. He did not
Saturday at the Lynchburg Invitational. allow a point in either match, winning 12-0
The senior was one of only two athletes to and 2-0. ‘
participate in both distance events, and she did Looney faced a much tougher match in
so in style by capturing both races. Schaeffer the ﬁnals at 190, but he did not give an inch
 prevailed in the one-mile run with a time of to his opponent, Joe Howe of Lebanon Val-
, _ _ _ _ 5:28. 25. She crossed the line 32 seconds ahead ley. Looney knotted the match 2-2 with a
egular Or Th'Ck S"Ced lfnltatlon of her nearest competitor in the two-mile run ' reversal, but Howe prevailed with a late

Harris Teeter 7  crabnqeat  with a time of l I:44. 1. takedown and a 4-3 decision.
16 oz. Flakes lb. T

N Selected Varieties Women endure rough Week

I a S  points and 12 rebounds. W&L returned home and Burghardt each had 10
From P,“ SW” R°P"”* Thingsgottougherforthe Tuesday night,onIytofaIlto points and 7 rebounds for
‘*1-—:"““: Generals Saturday when Eastern Mennonite, 75-60. the Generals. Hinkle added

' I
Th0 W0mC“’-5' It‘-1-‘ikcibilii they trav- O n C 0 7 more rebounds.
team faced tough opponents ctcd to again, the w&L received a chance
in,the past week, dropping R;md()]pI1- " L   Generals
V
I

\:

z .

to avenge their loss to
£111 0f N5 YOU!‘ C<)Iil051>'- Macon. the -. . . . p I a y 6 d Randolph-Macon Thursday
' The 00110171‘-*‘ WW0 s e e o n d - v  tough,sliC- night at the Warner Center,
silddlcd Will‘ I7i1Ci~*l<>-1’i|Ci~' ranked team . inga4l-29 but this gamewentlittle bet-
C0nl€SlS 1215‘ WCCKCW HIICF intheSouth. 4_ V ' G - halftime terthan the previous one for
having to make up a previ- R;md0|p|1. _ ' ' deficit to the Genci-a1s_
ously-postponed game with M 11 C 0 n E ~~ °  g c i g h t w&L again kept the
Vlrglllia W°5l9)t“”- proved its  ’ ‘' points in game close in the first half,
Th0 GCHCTHIS SEWC ‘I10 lofty rank- .,.  7 V the SCCOnd traiIingby35-25athalftime.
Marlins a tough battle Fri- mg by ‘=’  >1 " half. East- Rando1ph-Macon, though,
d€1)/- FTCSIVWI“ CIITISSY steaming " _ I -9 3' cm Men- spurted away in the second
Burglmrdi h°lP°d Will)’ the past the , .'  " n 0 n i I 6, half to win the game hand-
Generals back from a Gcncra I5’ - .'  however, ity, 35-45.
6  double-digit second half 73-53  _  p \ re_s_pgn_ded Sgohgmgre Tonia Decan
" _ _ _ " deficit to within ()I -57. F r C S h _ 2  with 8 10_ m”;’edV‘]'5"E)C;i"n[;°a"[;3 ‘9’ r“e'_‘
  &   The Marlins‘ mmlgh’ man Amber Photo by Betsy Green, 2 run to Put bounds and Holmes added 6

~ Cheese ¢ Grape —  l‘f’°r°_5‘°“dY““lI°fI°°fI"“"f Hittklc was PM Photo Editor the game points and 11 rebounds for
,§ . me in the closing minutes ;,|mg]nsPm A b H_ kl t away me Generals.

 Z25 oz.  64 oz. and managed to hold oft {Mme Gen. m 91' H} epu 5 Fresh_ washin ton and Lee
—— u h t t ff‘ 8

‘_“*'-‘ W&L~, 70-63 crals as she p as 0 In ra 1c’ man Karin sinks[02_1],1-10inODAC

    
I . ‘ . , ‘ _ ‘ ' P0””5 2”“ Pii1)/0d 511- TheGeneralswilIattempt
    “IS”,-)0 P‘””‘~W” 5‘I—‘5h00“ snarcdb’ rebounds. TheGen— perbly with 16 points, 7 as- to get back on track sagur-

Int‘; SCl‘i""51Wi"11I'I0l”‘C5 erals also converted a sea- sists, and 3 steals on the day with a home contest

-
8  “I50 PI4l.V°<I WC” Will‘ I3 son-high 1‘)-25 free throws. evening. SeniorAllisonHull againstcujlford

I I.  Indoor. Track:   

. Senior tri-captains Stuart Hogue and-Brady Payc ’ V _ g _

placed in the Lynchburg Invitational on Saturday.» The Washinigtgoiia 'Le:_eﬂWresitIing_Invitai'
contest marked the opening of the Generals’ indoor Senior;eo1captain€:'CoIin,;Leone" '

f season.‘ Hogue took second in the 440-yard» dash in a ﬁnalsiat 190.,before'Iosing’io‘_the_top’
time of54.68 seconds. Paye captured thirdplace in the‘ ;Lebanon.\(aIlcy.‘/,,§'f.‘«V _3:  V_ _
1,000-yard run. . ' ' ' g  f1‘ ‘  . ‘ FreshI‘rti1nTfR‘yan‘WalIteIl‘,gi 
V ’ Senior co-captain Josephine Schaeffer captured two‘ '_ door  ' "
first place finishes to give the W&L women a great start’ - 3‘: 

. ’ .1!’ . I
  Super Bowl especial Soft Drink Feature j’iiii)ii1i.2:i;1.r12d8(i§Z).r5 ihﬂdiglgogvihh $122321?.§3i"£El'-i§i£I‘L‘E.§° 5

' -[0fg_11':4A4'.1».’ ; V 

K.

r

Great Offer! ’ ‘”‘* ~””‘

section is tootiirtg

One FREE Introductory Tanning Visit I" “ IN 9°“

with H/tIl?CUT/S73/LE/\ppointtncnt at ’}:’f‘;  ﬁfe“

. J I ctiatfengé, give us
I I A ‘ 0 Cl cctttl Contact
Superpretzel 6 Pk. 20 Oz. NRB - the m‘ office at

Soft   Coke Or Diet 
Pretzels Coke       .,.e_Va,_.at.°n

Tanning Sessions
* ’ 12 visits for $35.00
  SOUIIl JCITCFSOII SIFCCI Marie's Hairstulers

13 oz.

. .  J.«Waite?‘-51llUs;;;.i1;|ﬂdlYtd.Uats ~55 Stu.den.t—= S  SPRING BREAK ’96 — SELL 7
Natural Selected Varieties ‘ 'I‘gVa'ni2.;‘:tions.“a'r‘1d’S,n13iii__AGi‘ot;xps _to‘t3r‘omo TRIPS, EARNCASH&GOFREEl!!

.."""’ 2/500 3"“ ‘3''‘‘’‘ °-’ 7.3/ 00 ari°§§§'2§$;?g?;f3§3é'§‘Z§'é":£§E‘?—?§leg   55‘ri§’r?’t5‘s‘iei?‘rVe‘3.'g=i?’e3”i‘v°e°ss»‘i33v7='s’3i?t'l%
4 9 Cfeamg/2 gal. heese Brteszs oz. 1  iseaIgtltNTf.R~°g.MPuserzeeeems:-[gag §:‘i....i‘..'1‘..“fc°i‘2’yBé‘£‘§i$“oa’i‘t¥£;‘ii'b‘i6‘i;'E;‘i
iected Varieties k   " ‘B0 '327"6°13 ' 4849

Sea Pa
jbisco 69 Shrimp 2/ya
*.rackers”s.s.1ooz.1 Poppers t 5....  TRIPS 8‘ CASH”***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with

    30’  America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun

r’riCes In This Ad Effective Wednesday, January 24 Through January 30, 1996 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores Bahamas’ Mazatlan’ or Florida! CA»LL NOW! TAKE? A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
l Unly. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps. (500) 95'BREAK'

/

vv'callita'hunch.;I’  -

Last Week:

wusﬂmc ' Finished wvemh in W&L Invitational MBAsKm'B.A1.L - Saturday vs. Guilford. 3:30 PM;
Mﬁmmm - L. 9065. at Bridzepgawgz Wednesday at Virginia Wesleyan, 7:30 PM
14.97-75. vs- Ham °n- yd--er WBAsKr:mAu.- Saturday vs. Guilford, 1:00PM;
WBASK2'FBALL- L, 78-53, vs.4T;andolp}l;-iIB:1&acltJt1l";l~:a.75'50r V5- E Tuesday vs, mvrwc, moo PM
Menmmitei 14:85‘ - "3- °P ’ 3 '1 MSwtMM1Na- S tu do at Sewanee w/ Transylvania, 1:00 PM
Mswmmme - 11.89-31. V5~ J°hn8 HOPHHB; L. 71-53, vs. Emory \VSwmmmc- simian; at Sewanee w/ 'I‘ransylvania, 1:00 PM;
WSwrMMmG- L, 83-41, vs. Johns Hopkins; L,8B-33, vs. Emory; Wednesday at H011-ms_ 7:00 pM
W, 141-58. at Redford
PAGE 8 BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK JANUARY 26, '-

    
     

 th'a_t_Supe'r,Bowl,X=X3X will »
Vi be anotlierflatrghe  '
 ?_i=Tt1e.ojd,ds‘¥ar’
 ,-whelmi,ngly.,in'
:_ N

 
 

  
  
  

 this deca'de.,Thc_,.Co,wboy_
* are-113 1_i/2‘-’p'oi\n't"favorites' V
2;‘.,Oh,'and.Ne'on‘Deion,_is, " '
f ’toWnfthis.,ye‘ ' What-
" there-not to lik S9
J ' So,-with "all; I H
1 considered; 91 _predict‘the 
'winn'eriwi_ll be: p .-  ' ’
_"Pittsburgli.fv  V 

. OK,‘-go. ahead and";
laugh. No, ll. don’t have”

. any top-secret; insiéle in-1 '
formation on: the game.j_,

‘ But before you~_fold up the‘
 paper and tossit aside’, hea
S me outfolr ﬂjshorjtwliile
_   'Therelisf_no,doubting't,h
yfact that D  ‘,
team; A’ gran. em-,-» pj
haps. Tlteycan be beaten
though.’ Nobodyltlviougli
Washington co'u_ld".bea
them once, let alonetwice.

First, this NFC streak. ,
has to end sometime. The‘ 1
law of averages will come
intoplaysoon,'partieularly
when the AFC’ finally‘ 
fields a complete team.

The Steelersarethebest
team that the AFC has of- '
fered in the pastclecade.
Denver was too reliant on
John Elway’s arm. Buf-
falo had an explosive of-H
fense, but tlie‘Bills wereW-

V turnover-prone. San Di- \
ego was dependent on the
. big play.

Pittsburgh doesn’t do '
anythingprctty,butitdoes . '
/everythinggwell. QB Neili .
O’Donnell has come into '
.his own this yearas l1ZlS“_'

' WR.Yancey Thigpen. RB ;:
Baml_Morri‘s¢is,:a load: to“ L
_ tackle, , KOl'(.lCll..‘jSl('1_$l1”i 
Stewartis Pi,ttsbur’gh,’s"  ,,
swer to Deion; nobody ever, 
knows which position he9
. will line upai, but he plays
eachgone well. Unlike the"
Bills, who used the pass to,
set up the run, the Stcelcrs,‘
v can run and‘pas_s/the ball,‘
' with equal success._;‘_ . j‘ '-
,- The defense _has'been
~ _ the bedrock ofthe Steele
: for»20 years and—_t_l1is.y.ear ,
. is no exception.i lt star-t's_7“
'thlin_ebacl\ rs’-

    
   

  
  
   
 

 

 
  

  

 

   

  

 

. " ‘So, 'what.the- heck; I’.l A
. go,eutonétbig7t1ir1j1 ,Pitts-. 
. burgh’-wins, 20-17. Just 3-

  

, Whateverhappens,pull /
up your chairs for this one.
For once, the Super Bowl
may be more exciting than
the Bud Bowl. ‘

 

 

Women’s swimming redeems loss to Emory
and Hopkins; men’s team continues to struggle

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

Rebekah Prince and the
women’s swimming team con-
tinued their sweep through
ODAC competition Wednesday
by crushing Radford, 141-58.

The W&L women won all of
their events.

“We just had a good time,”
said freshman Margaret Hoehl.

Sophomore Megan

Wiedmaier won the 1000 and
100 freestyle eve.;ts, junior Ann
Spencer won the 200 and 500
freestyle, and Prince won the 50
freestyle and the 100 backstroke.
Sophomore Kendall
Kruickshanks won the 100 but-
terﬂy, and sophomore Bligh
Wollner won the 100 breast.
The 200 individual medley
relay team of Hoehl, Wollner,
Prince, and sophomore Taryn

Kiekow placed first, as well as ,

the 200 free relay team of senior

Ellie iting-tum 31911?

captain Jill Sheets, Laura
Marshall,Hoehl,andWiedmaier.

“This is the strongest team
we have had in four years,” said
coach Kiki Jacobs.

The men’s and women’s
swimming teams both were out-
gunned last weekend as they both
dropped meets to Johns Hopkins
and Emory.

The men’s team lost 89-31 to
Hopkins and 71-53 to Emory,
despite strong performances by
junior Nathan Hottle and senior

David Stillman.

Stillman won the 50 freestyle
and placed second with the 400
relay team along with senior Craig
Sears, Hottle, and sophomore
Steve Brigance.

Hottle led the way forthe Gen-
erals by winning the 100 and 200
breaststroke and the 400 IM.

The women also had strong
performances from stars Prince
and Hoehl, but they lost to Emory,
88-33, and Hopkins, 83-41.

Prince continued dominating

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Kelly Dyer drives to the hoop for a layup in the Generals’ 97-75 loss to Hampden-Sydney Wednesday.

Generals fall to Hampden-Sydney

By BE’l'll/\NY BAUMAN and
JASON Z/\ClllC,R
I’/ii Staff Writers

Kevin Moore’s first season
as coach of the men’s basketball
team continued to be trouble-
some, as the Generals lost to
Hampden-Sydney 97-75
Wednesday night.

The Generals(2-15,2-9) only
had two players in double fig-
ures, whilc the Tigers had four.

Leadingthe way againforthe
Generals was senior Cam Dyer
with 20 points and senior Jon
Coffman with 1‘).

W&L controlled the opening
tip, but Sydney scored the first
five minutes of the game, and
never looked back. Only twice

to Reduce The coetticient

oooaoo0o2cooooouotocoo:-uoooaoooooﬁ,

would the Generals get within
five points, at 7-4 and 18-14.

“We didn’t do a good job of
handling their defensive
pressure...and we gave them too
many open jumpers,” Dyer
stated.

Hurting the Generals were
senior Derek Carter’s four first-
halffouls; he would only play 19
minutes of the game.

The Tigers opened the game
with a 16-7 lead in the first 3:36.
A two minute total scoring
droughtfollowcd,which wasbro-
ken by sophomore Eric
Zavolinsky’s two buckets.

Despite the loss, there were
bright spots for the Generals on
Wednesday night. The first was
rebounding. Kelly Dyer com-
bined with his brother to pull

down 17. The second was
Coffman’s 15 points from three
point land, as he connected on 5
of 6 attempts.

The Generals kept the game
within ten points thr0ugh0ut,but
a late 14-4 run by Sydney to end
the game put it out of reach.

The Generals hope to change
their luck in the Warner Center
on Saturday.

They meet Guilford at 3:30
PM in a must-win game for an
ODAC tournament berth.

Cam Dyer said, “This is a
huge game because ourmain goal
now is making the ODAC tour-
nament. We feel like we match
up against Guilford well.”

Zavolinsky added, “I think if
we play defense and limit our
turnoverswecandeﬁnitely win.”

 

‘Washington and Lee 75

Player FG FT Pts Min
M-A M-A

C. Dyer 7-11 6-10 20 30
Coffman 6-9 2-4 19 26
Zavolinsky 4-6 0-0 8 10
Cobbin 2-8 4-6 8 27
Couzen 1-5 4-6 6 31
K. Dyer 2-8 2-4 6 25
Carter 1-5 0-0 3 19
Mellett 1-6 0-0 3 20
Jamison 1-1 0-0 2 5
Ayers 0-0 0-2 0 1
Dirmann 0-1 0-0 0 5
Totals 25-60 18-32 75 --

3pointers: H-S8-22;W&L7-18(Coffman
5-6, Carter 1-4, Mellett 1-3). Rebounds:
H-S 46; W&L 44 (C Dyer 9, K Dyer 8).
Assists: H—S 20, W&L 10. Fouls: H-S 24;
W&L 19 (Caner, Coffman 4).
Halftime Score: H-S 62, W&L 51

    It uoesirt Talte ll Mam aiur        

(And Do It With A Lot of Style.)
® 'roYoTA 

Toyota ’s Affordable Sporty Fun,-Cv<_Jr.

Sﬂi YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.

 
   
    
            
   
  
  
  
   
   
      
               
      
        
      
  

This Week:

WINDoon Tmcx - Saturday at East Tennessee State Invitational

“It’s good to go against son ‘I
one other than ODAC compe ,
tion. Sometimes we think we .1
the best around here. It’s a u.‘
wake-up call,” said Jacobs. ;

Both teamswill travel togetl
again this weekend to Sewan_
Tennessee, where they will ha’
a dual meet with Sewanee a
Transylvania College. .Y

Jacobs remarked, “We are c‘
pecting a good meet again
Sewanee. It should come dot
to the last events.” it

her events, winning the 200
backstroke by one second, and
the 200 IM by four seconds.

Hoehl captured the 500
freestyle and placed second in
the 100 backstroke.

Wiedrrraier also was strong,
placingthirdinthe500freestyle, V
under one half-second behind
second place.

The women hope that this
meet will help them prepare for
the AtlanticStates/ODACtour-
nament February 23-25.

I
1

New trainer
Haynes joins

athletic staff

i
.
I

U of Maine intern replace:
Melanie Middleton

By .Bf;"l‘llANY BAUMAN
1’/ii Assistant Sports Editor

Joellen Haynesjoined the Washington and Lee Athlctic'l‘rainl.
staffovcrthe holiday break. During the wintersports season she
work with the men’s basketball team. ,

Haynes, 23, is a senior at the University of Maine majoring;
physical education with a concentration in athletic training. 2,
semester has brought her to W&L in order to perform the intern5
required for her degree. But before she is awarded her degrct,
May, Haynes plans to take the National Athletic Trainers Ass0 
tion certification test in April.

Having worked at both Division 1 and 1 ll schools, Haynes e
the college athletic setting and anticipates that her first job

S
nj I.
r 5
iv
graduation will be at this level. Ultimately, llaynes hopes to ﬁg

 
    
   
    
   
 

compete anymore.”

“I like the constant, day to day interaction with people...andj
being in competitive situations even though I can’t compete .
self.”

When Haynes isn’t in the training room, she enjoys activi
which keep her outdoors such as rollerblading, mountain biking‘
traveling. f

Haynes is filling the position left vacant by Melanie Middle
Middleton had just begun her third year as 21 trainer with-it
Washington and Lee basketball program when she was offered a '
at :1 clinic in Sumter. South Carolina. ,4

trainer for the United States National Gymnastic Team. ‘_
Haynes used to be a gymnast herself,‘in addition to pluyingﬁ
hockey, skiing and running track. Unfortunately, injuries Cut
athletic career short, but Haynes has found that athletic traini
“...is a way to keep involved in athletics even after [she] could
1
ll
I
D
5

   

Middleton received her undergraduate degree at Campbell '
versity. She earned her mastcr’s degree in sports medicine from

  

U.S. Sports Medicine Academy in Mobile, Alabama. ,
Before coming to W&L, Middleton worked as 21 North Caroll

   
   
 

State trooper and as a high school girl"’s basketball coach at Dapli
High School in Alabama. 
She joined the W&L training staff in December of 1993 a

serving as a certified hang gliding instructor and pilot at Look‘
Mountain Flight Park. '—

Middleton is a former goalie for the U.S. National Hand‘
Team for which she competed in the Pan-American Games and«
World B championships in Denmark. She also served as an assis
coach at the U.S. Olympic Festival in St. Louis during 1994.

lnuddition to working withthcmen’sbaskctball team, Middl
also served the men’s soccer, baseball and track teams.

 
    
 
 

ﬂtﬂraw-3‘

   
   

® TOYOTA

I Z.m..~ \Vh.xZ You Do for Mr

