 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
 
   
    
 
   
   
 
    
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  

‘V

 
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
     
   
  
 
   
  

 
 
 

 

   
 

  
   

 

~..l1'\'r "
i\'. ﬁlivf .
\ nVilwN‘.;-,¢.4,\*i .

It um U"""‘”‘ '

 
 

CULTURE

TO CAMPUS 9

COMES

I‘1en’s Lax has
ﬂawless start

Chi: ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlit

9:’
VOLUME 96, N0. 16

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Watch those toes!

      
  
   

Photo by Christine N. Garnavish

Leading the parade and surrounded by "security" agents, the Republican National Party symbol comes to life at the
1996 Republican Mock Convention parade on Friday morning.

"Because ’ the

Board of Trustees names new member

From Phi Staff Reports

At a recent meeting, the Washington and Lee
University Board of Trustees named Glenn 0.

Thomhill, Jr. ’63 a new trustee.

Thornhill is the chairman, president and chief
$r..ecutive officer of Maid Bess Corp., a Salem,
irginia-based apparel manufacturing company
with 2,000 employees in southwest Virginia and

North Carolina.

A business and civic leader in the Roanoke
Valley, Thomhill is a member of the boards of the

 

First Union National Bank of Virginia and Commu-
nity Hospital, Roanoke Valley.

His current civic board memberships include the
City of Salem School Board, Roanoke College Board
of Trustees, United Way of the Roanoke Valley (past
chairman and campaign chainnan), Roanoke Valley
Business Council (past chairman), Roanoke Re-
gional Chamber of Commerce, Roanoke Regional
Partnership, Virginia Manufacturer’s Association,
and the Virginia Tech Advisory Council of the
Roanoke Valley.

Some of his past civic board memberships include
the Salem Rotary Club (past president), Salem-
Roanoke County Chamber of Commerce (past presi-

dent), and the Roanoke Symphony Society (past
president). He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa
and Beta Gamma Sigma.

Thomhill was named C.E.O. of the Year in 1993
by Bobbin Magazine, and in the same year was
named a Distinguished Citizen by the Roanoke Jay-
cees. In 1994, he received a Distinguished Alumnus
Award from Washington and Lee, and in 1995 he
won the Perry F. Kendig Award for Outstanding
Support for the Arts.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 8, 1996

Steering Committee
reveals F.D. theme

BY KELLEY T0'I'I'EN
Phi Staff Writer

“I’m late, I ’m late for a very impor-
tant date.”

The White Rabbit must have been
referring to Washington and Lee ’s 1996
Fancy Dress Ball, “A Mad Tea Party.”
The FD Steering Committee had to
push the date for the ball, Friday, March
22, back a month because of Mock
Convention.

The theme, based on Lewis
Carr0ll’s books, Alice in Wonderland
and Through

directions you can go with it...all the
fun characters...lots of colors, too!”

To many people’s regret, there will
be no camels or elephants at this event,
but Bell does promise that there will be
at least one or two characters roaming
the Ball. Not everyone is too excited
about this, though.

“I'm scared of the Cheshire cat be-
cause I once decapitated a cat in the
spokes of my bicycle. Now cats are
attracted to me- I think they all know,”
said a scared Jackie Terrebonne.

Others, however, are looking for-
ward to spending their FD in the com-
pany of some of their favorite child-

hood characters.

the Looking
Glass, sets the
scene for inter-
esting and
lively decora-
tions.

“ D e c o r a -
tions are going
to be different
because we are
working with
surreal images,”
said FD Steering
C o m m i t t e e
C h a i r m a n

“ T h e r e ’ d
have to be the
Mad Hatter and
the White Rab-
bit,” said senior
Anna Bentley.
“And there bet-
ter be a Cheshire
cat somewhere or
else l’ll be very
disappointed.”

Bentley also
suggested that
the gym should
be turned into a

Ashley Bell. giganticobstacle

The d6C0rat- course. Party-
ingcommitteeis goers would
basing their roam frombigto
decorations off small rooms,
the Original slidedownsecret

books rather
than the movies.

 

passages, and
celebrate happy

original illustra-

tions are under public domain, the com-
mittee is able to use all of the images
without having to worry about copy-
right restrictions.

“I think the theme is a really cre-
ative idea,” said freshman Amy Frazier.
“I am anxious to see what they do with
the decorations. I can imagine they’ll
really go all out.”

Bell said the committee wanted to
avoid geographic-related themes this
year after the past two years were
“spent” in foreign countries with “The
Magic Carpet Ride” in 1994 and “Une
Soiree Parisienne” last year.

With FD falling in the shadows of
Mock Convention, Bell thought this
was a good year to do something unique.
The “Alice in Wonderland” theme idea
has surfaced at steering committee
brain-storm meetings for the past few
years. Bell said they finally came up
with realistic ideas for sets and decora-
tions to make this year’s event pos-
sible.

“I think it is the best theme,” said
Katherine McF all. “There are so many

u n b i r t h d a y s
while trying to
escape the Queen of Hearts.

Although the steering committee
just sent out the invitations this week
(point of interest for those who are still
having difficulty reading their invites-
try reading it “through the looking
glass”), many W&L students already
knew the theme. While some are dis-
appointed that the theme was not a
highly-gaurded secret like in the past,
Bell said she is not concerned.

“FD is usually over by now. We’ve
been working since October and people
are really excited about the theme. lt’s
not surprising that it got out,” said Bell.

Many students are looking forward
to this year’s fairy tale FD weekend.
They’re nursing their hangovers and
exchanging their straw hats for party
hats in preparation for the perfect fol-
low-up to the Mock Convention. One
junior, however, doesn’t like all of
these events so close together. He
suggested doing away with FD every
fourth year during Mock Convention.

‘‘I’m still hurting from last week-
end,” he said.

Virginia 1996 or California 1981?

   

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

 

4 telelvision cop show “Chips.”

The California delegation’ s award-winning ﬂoat celebrated ﬁfteen years of the popular

 

 

   
   

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Citizens fight new Wal-Mart

Fredericksburg, VA—In yet another battle between the preservation of
historical land and suburban development, citizens of Virginia’s Stafford
County are fighting a plan to build a Wal-Mart on land that was once part
of Ferry Farm, George Washington’s boyhood home.

In 1990 the owners of the still-undeveloped parts of Ferry Farm donated
39 acres to Stafford County. The remaining land, which was zoned for
commercial development, would be the site of a colonial-style, brick Wal-
Mart which planners claim would be inconspicuous and would not disturb
the land on which Washington’s farmhouse once stood. County officials
say that a new Wal-Mart would meet the county’s need for increased tax
dollars and new jobs.

Several citizens groups oppose the building of the Wal-Mart, however,
claiming that the loss of the land and of the historical rural atmosphere
around the site of the old farmhouse would be a national tragedy. These
groups claim they are receiving strong support from around the country.

Wal-Mart needs only the approval of the Architectural Review Board
to go ahead with its plan.

Search for bombers intensified

Jerusalem, lsrael—lsraeli and Palestinian forces are increasing the
intensity of their search for those involved in a recent spree of suicide
bombings.

An Israeli Arab has been arrested for smuggling the suicide bomber who
killed himself and thirteen people in Tel Aviv on Monday. The suspect is
said to be a member of an Islamic group and to have accepted $1 100 to take
the man from Gaza to Tel Aviv.

Palestinian forces have already convicted and sentenced a man who
confessed to drafting three suicide bombers. The man is a member of
Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, and recruited the two bombers
involved in the recent bus bombings in Jerusalem.

As fear mounts following these incidents in which 57 people have been
killed, Israelis are becoming increasingly suspicious of Israeli Arabs who
may be involved in the Islamic militant groups responsible for the bomb-
ings, a state of affairs which could threaten the state of the Israeli-
Palestinian Peace Accords.

Scientists clone sheep

Scotland——Scottish scientists have perfected a method for cloning
sheep embryos, and have produced ﬁve genetically identical lambs, giving
rise to predictions of mass production of genectically altered animals.

This is the first time that scientists have successfully cloned animals
larger than rodents, and experts say that this method unlike others, is
capable of producing thousands of identical, genetically enhanced ani-
mals. Researchers hope to use the technique to produce better quality
animals to be used in the food and clothing industries, and also to change
and improve organs in pigs in order to produce better matches for humans
in need of transplants.

The technique could feasibly be used to produce cloned human em-
bryos, but laws in both Scotland and the United States prohibit the testing
of such techniques in humans on grounds of ethical conflicts.

U.S. swimmer disqualified

Indianapolis, IN—On Wednesday at the U.S. Olympic swimming
trials, swimmer Kristine Quance, a US. hopeful for a gold medal in the
400-meter individual medley, was disqualified from that event for what the
turn judge ruled a faulty turn.

Despite critics’ protests that the turn was not incorrect, andwould in fact
have slowed her if it had been, Quance, who won the race by a large margin,
was disqualified from finals in the individual medley.

Quance will go on to finals in several other events, but officials say she
has much less chance of joining the Olympic team with these events than
she had with the individual medley.

Beyond the Blue Ridge
is compiled by Peggy Stuntz

GOP WATCH

 

Editor’s Note: GOP Watch will appear
two more times until a Republican presi-
dential candidate is chosen, in order for
students to compare the results of the
Mock Convention to the results of the
Republican primaries.

Dole wins eight states

Bob Dole moved into the delegate—count lead with his eight victories in
eight state primaries this past Tuesday. Appropriately “Junior Tuesday,”
which is a precursor to next week’s “Super Tuesday” contests, primaries
were held in Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Maine, Maryland, Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island and Vermont. Dole, with his decisive victories in
all the states, has become the GOP’s presumptive cadidate.

Alexander, Lugar drop out

Lamar Alexander as well as Dick Lugar announced their withdrawl
from the Republican presidential race on Wednesday in the wake of their
poor showings in the Junior Tuesday primaries. Both of the former
candidates endorsed Dole as well as denied any interest in being the Vice
Presidential nominee. Both Pat Buchanan and Steve Forbes have an-
nounced that they will stay in the race until the Republican National
Convention in August.

Dole gets more endorsements

Bob Dole received four very important endorsements this past week.
On Monday, Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich threw his support behind
Dole. Texas Governor George W. Bush as well as his brotherleb Bush who
is highly inﬂuential in the Florida Republican Party endorsed Dole. Their
father, Former President George Bush did not formally endorse Dole but
did state that Dole does have the credentials to be the next President of the
United States.

GOP Watch is compiled by Laura Knapp

A wra

 

BY CHRISTINE N. GARNAVISH
Phi News Editor

 

The Washington and Lee 1996 Republi-
can Mock Convention was a tremendous
success, due in no small part to speakers Dan
Quayle, Newt Gingrich and Bill Bennett.

The speakers were greeted with an enthu-
siastic crowd, ready and willing to cheer the
virtues of the Republican National Party
and anyone preaching traditional conserva-
tive values.

Former Vice President Dan Quayle
warmed up the already roaring crowd by
proclaiming the Republican Party is not di-
vided but united.

He continued by outlining basic Republican ideals such as a ﬂat tax, term
limits and welfare system reform.

“We have created a culture of dependency,” he said. “Let’s start creating a
culture of independence...It is time we put our children first.”

Such staunch Republicanism animated the audience, and the security staff
began to eye the crowd suspiciously.

Quayle derided Bill Clinton for allowing the return of Castro and the shooting
of two American planes two weeks ago. He asserted that if George Bush or
Ronald Reagan had been president, this would not have happened.

“We are convinced, now more than ever, that we need a Republican
president,” said Quayle.

He continued to rail Clinton throughout his speech, citing the President’s
unfulfilled promises to govern from the middle.

“He says over and over again that he is a moderate, and people believe him,”
Quayle said. “Well if he can do that, then I will say over and over again that I
am a world champion speller.”

Quayle endeared himself to the W&L community by using the Honor Code
as a standard for politicians.

“[Honesty and trust] are the standards expected of you, and if you don’t meet
them, you’re gone,” Quayle said. “And if that is the standard for Washington
and Lee, shouldn’t that be the standard for the President of the United States?”

Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) also took note of his audience
in the first lines of his address.

“Amateurs are watching South Carolina today,” he said. “Sophisticated
folks are watching [the Washington and Lee Mock Convention].”

Dan Quayle Newt Gingrich

-u to the 1996

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
     
   
   
  
    
    
   
    
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The Ring-tum Phi, March §, 1996

 

Gingrich’s speech revolved around the fu-
ture of an America with Republican leader- "
ship.

Echoing the standard platform, Gingrich
called for lower taxes, higher take-home pay,
less Washington bureaucracy, fewer lawsuits
and the traditional “simple, fair ﬂat tax.” to

He said that the government is focusing on
the wrong things right now, and pointed out
that the IRS is bigger than the FBI.

In reference to his position favoring lower
taxes, Gingrich said that Washington needs to
learn to use common sense. He gave the
example of giving mothers a tax break, saying
that it made more sense to let her keep her
money than to give it to Washington to hire a
bureaucrat to decide how to spend money on
her children. 1).

Gingrich also stated that the drug problem has escalated during the Clinton
administration, and that drugs were not as rampant during the Reagan and
Bush years.

After rejecting the idea of school uniforms, Gingrich said “Don’t get me
wrong, I’m for uniforms. I want to put striped uniforms on drug dealers.”

But perhaps the most crowd-pleasing speech was that of Bill Bennett, a John
M. Olin distinguished fellow in Cultural Policy Studies at the Heritage Founda-
tion and a co-director of Empower America.

Riding the enthusiasm of the crowd, Bennett opened with, “To heck with San
Diego, let’s just do [the Republican National Convention] here.”

Bennett said that America is the nation to which other countries turn in times
of need, but this should not eclipse the government’s duty to protect the American
people first.

Bennett endorsed stricter sentencing of criminals and tighter parole restric-
tions. He addressed other problems as well, calling welfare a “tragedy” and the
number of abortions a “national catastrophe.” it.

Other speakers at the Mock Convention included Virginia Governor George
Allen and Senator John Warner.

All the speakers praised Mock Con for its accuracy and energy.

But, as W&L President John Elrod said, “The most impressive was the
staggering amount of work involved.”

He said that at the end, every person involved in the Mock Convention will
“wear an A+.”

PHOTOS BY CHRISTINE N. GARNAVISH

Bill Bennett John Warner

The Lost Cause

Photo by Christine N. Garnavish

   
   
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
   

 

W&L safe with
student security "

 

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

 

. ﬁr

Doremus Gym looked like a scene from the movie In the v
Line of F ire last weekend.

Thirty-seven burly W&L men and a handful of state and
capital police wearing wires from their ears kept Mock Con
delegates and speakers safe from outsiders and each other.

WhileTom DeLay, Newt Gingrich, George Allen brought ,,
their own security, Dan Quayle, Haley Barbour and the rest
of the crowd put their safety in the capable hands of student
security.

“Everybody we hired did a really good job,” said Cole
Costanzo ’96 who, with Rob Grant ’96L, led the student ‘
security force. Students earned $100 for working all three
sessions, and could earn more from working luncheons or
other functions throughout the weekend.

Even though their white “Security” shirts were not quite
as intimidating as the dark suits and ear phones worn by the
professionals, the student security force still got to rub 1.
shoulders with the V.l.P.s who came. Costanzo rode in the
limo with Quayle and Barbour.

Student security guards were stationed throughout the

#9!

The Indiana delegation maintained their position despite the futility
of their cause. Lugar dropped out of the race on Wednesday.

gym, checking tickets, escorting speakers, and monitoring
V.I.P. areas, and looking dangerous. Apparently, it worked.

“Everything went smoothly,” said “There were only
about one or two people arrested, and those were for
drunkenness.”

  

The Sistterlliootll of 6%/i Eﬁi Xi
Alplia Eta pi Clliapteir

would llilke to congratulate

OUII‘  plledlge ClldLSS2

 

‘Z21-kgung ‘Venice C/ian Tzraﬁ 5/iana grant
}[i[[ary Qietﬁ Coomﬁs
ﬂlncfrea Lauren fwing Jennifer Marie Mendocﬁa

ﬂawn ﬂlnnﬂvfarie Hewitt

  
 
  
  
  
   
  

.//lm/me .3
25./1/0/z/A.//lam Wheel
463-6003

$1“; /wﬂa  3/79.
9;:/Iuwny ﬂea’ /0  .
$35. 00 I, *  

e%/amjcwaea, awn/ﬁe nail) mm’ i/ze
émlezt  /mifméy/ea. I

  
  

 

e///afe you/a a/1/winlmenl /(ta/ay

 
 

 
  

\‘

' The Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 

Page 3

culture comes Zo campus

‘I

in the form of two distinguished artists, Phi Features Editor Cindie Young finds...

Michael S. Harper

“Poetry writing is labor,” Michael
S. Harper reﬂected during his poetry
reading in a crowded Northen Audito-
rium this past Tuesday evening; if so, it
is a labor at which Harper has suc-
ceeded by all accounts.

Hailed by the San Francisco Exam-
iner & Chronicle as “one of the ﬁnest
poets of our time,” Harper has indeed
earned much critical attention and many
devoted readers for his poetry in the
years since the publication of his ﬁrst
collection of poems, Dear John, Dear
Coltrane in 1970.

Among the many honors has re-
ceived are the Poetry Society of
America’s 1978 Melville Cane Award
for his Image of Kin, nominations for
both Images of Kin and Dear John,
’-‘ear Coltrane for the Natonal Book
’- ward, and the Black Academy of
Arts and Letters poetry award for his

' History Is Your Own Heartbeat.

Other books by Harper include Heal-
ing Song for the Inner Ear, Nightmare

‘Begins Responsibility, Song: I WantA

Witness, and a new anthology of Afri-
can-American poetry entitled Every
Shut Eye Ain ’t Sleeping. Harper now
serves as Israel J. Kapstein Professor
of English at Brown University, where
he has taught for the past 16 years.

For a man with so distinguished a
career, however, Harper spoke to his
audience this Tuesday in a friendly and
familiar voice. After all, he felt in his
own words “kinda talky.”

Thus Harper began his reading in
expressing his not quite pertinent re-
sentment of the Germans, which senti-
ment results directly from one malt
stain upon the first volume of poems

 

from which he read, a stain Harper
blames directly on certain customs of-
ﬂcials of Frankfurt Airport.
Throughout Tuesday’s reading
Harper’s wit often emerged in other
such amusing stories and observations

"t'.I::':':y

MICHAEL S. HARPER

mentioned apropos of his poems, and
yet aside such wit various words of
encouragement often emerged, espe-
cially for those young people present.
“Step out of yourself,” Harper coun-
selled; “do something that is not ex-
pected.” The something to which
Harper alludes, naturally enough, is
the artistic effort and in particular the
writing of poetry. .
Even the accomplished Harper con-
ceded days in which his poetry disap-
points him: “Sometimes I’m surprised

at how good I am, and at other times
I can’t believe I wrote this drivel.”
Within the artistic process, a cer-

“ tain values lies within the creation of

a work of art, regardless of how the
work itself might strike the author or
anyone else, Harper argued, insist-
ing that “the individual act is an
important thing.”

Thus poetry is important for
Harper not only as a complex and
well-crafted arrangement of struc-
ture and content, but also as a means
of expression available to all.

As accessible as poetry might be,
however, it has certainly become for
Michael S. Harpera powerful means
of self-expression.

With specific respect to Harper’s
book Dearlohn, Dear Coltrane, one
writer for the Virgnia Quarterly Re-
view alludes to the very meaningful
expression that Harper has achieved
within his poetry, noting that
“Harper’s is a poetry of classically
adorned statemtn, a direct, unﬂinch-
ing record of a man alive in his
time.”

“When he is at his best, in both
his public and private voice,” the
critic continues, “he creates a lan-
guage humming with emotion and
ennobled by a deeply felt human
dignity.”

The audience of Northen Audito-
rium, privileged to hear both the
poems and the reﬂections of so ac-
complished and active a poet, exited
with an appreciation not only for the
appeal and powerof Harper’s poems
but for the charm and genius of the

poet.

 

   

 

 ” PW

  

seasoii”‘ofth_e‘show.‘I suggest you tak the uiz and, 
answer. Byjthe time you get tqthe eii
enjoying the color and giossy piiotosof cast memberg’

between the quiz, In fact, test your knowledge right now.
the following is a stage name. that Joey uses; a) Hal»':?a¢Iu0
McGroin c)Ishmael d) MarceI?,For the right answer youlia

 



4

 

3ibii’l1speii<1 be

 

  

 

“Somehow or other there must be a
way of bringing stories back into paint-
ing,” Lincoln Perry declared in his
lecture in DuPont Auditorium Thurs-
day evening.

Himself a signiﬁcant painter from
Charlottesville, Perry - one can safely
say — has found that way of success-
fully composing stories within paint-
ings.

Speaking from a podium in front of
a crowd that drew as much from mem-
bers of the Lexington community as
from the W&L campus, Perry com-
mented on some 90 slides of his past
and present work, and on the process in
which he engages to produce a single
piece.

And far more goes into Perry’s pro-
cess than might be expected. The artist
begins with a spatial concept, sprung
from his interest in the relationship
between certain planes and shapes
within a particular setting (whether
imagined or real).

When beginning a larger painting,
Perry will often conceive not one but
quite a few spatial arrangements, all of

  

te a Saturday‘ afternoon, 
easy readir1g,,(especiaI:_ly, when, -j
& =80 lleyaifvyou 

     
 
  
 
 
 

   

which he works out in a series of
sketches; each sketch allows Perry to
explore a new perspective, a new color
palette or even a new focus.

Having ﬁnally arrived at a sketch
that satisiﬁes his eye and the curiosity
that drives each new effort, Perry then
moves from paper to canvas, translat-
ing his sketch onto a far larger space.

Perry freely admits that “to go to
nature is helpful,” and yet with each
new work he must choose whether to
work within the actual presence of his
subject or within his studio and all the
conveniences it provides.

Working within nature leaves Perry
at the hazard not only of weather con-
ditions and in some cases visiting hours
but also of capturing in only a handful
of minutes what information he can
about the particular effect of one
moment’s sunlight.

Wherever Perry chooses to create
each painting, however, the task of
creating a ﬁnished painting demands
much patience and diligent effort.
Speaking of such effort Peny refers to
Degas’ paintings of ballet dancers, in

which he reads a comment from Degas
himself upon the artistic process.

“He knew that dancing was a meta-
phor for painting,” Perry notes of De-
gas, each representing a creative pro-
cess comprised almost entirely of sweat
and toil.

However exhausting his work may
indeed be, Perry has certainly emerged
a successful artist with a studio ﬁlled as
much with prestigious commissions
from across the country as with his
own projects.

Perry describes himself as one who
began painting abstractly in 1971, in-
terested “in large simple planes of
color.”

In the years that have followed,
Perry has explored with great success
such interest, embracing as well many
new challenges, from form and com-
position to theory.

The result of all this effort has been
a wide range of works that engage the
eye but also the mind; a sampling of
Perry ’s range hangs now upon the walls
of DuPont Gallery and can be found
there through March 21.

Singer Tom Acousti performs tree this
Friday night at 10 p.m. in the GHQ Puh.
Acousti has visited more than 400 colleges across
the country, recently playing original songs on
television's Star Search.
music as "spiritually-hased roclz music."

The artist describes his

‘Broken Arrow fails to hit the marlz

Kirle Susong
Phi Reviewer

Director John Woo is originally from Hong Kong , where
he has developed a reputation for creating daring, intricate
crime dramas. ‘His excellent ﬁlms have received more
attention here in America than do most Hong Kong exports,
especially The Killer and Hard-Boiled.

However, he has not yet found Hollywood as easy to
conquer as Hong Kong. His first American ﬁlm was Hard
Target, starring Jean-Claude Van Damme. This didn’t live
up to expectations, so much is riding on his second effort,
Broken/irrow. All I can say is I hope he gets a third chance.

Broken/trrow revolves around Major Vic Deakins (John
Travolta), a smart but frustrated Air Force pilot who feels
he ’s not getting his due recognition. So he decides to get out,
and to go while the getting is good.

While on a test ﬂight over the desert, he ejects his friend
and co-pilot Capt. Reilly Hale (Christian Slater), then safely
drops the two nuclear bombs he is carrying before faking a

crash. The idea is that his ground team will retrieve the nukes
then meet up with him; they will spirit the bombs off to a
major city to blackmail the government for a few hundred
million.

Although it sounds like a pretty good plan, as you might
expect Capt. Hale is more resourceful than his one-time
friend gives him credit for. When he meets up with Park
Ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis), they form a
capable duo who b'attle Deakins to the very end.

This film suffers from an extreme case of underachieve-
ment. Just like that kid that used to sit next to you in eighth-
grade, it could be so much more if it had just put its mind to
it. John Woo is a great director, whose sense of style and
psychology have suited him well in the past.

Here, though, it is clear that his considerable talents are
simply underused. The entire ﬁlm is set in a great desert
wilderness, and every shot takes maximum advantage of
this natural beauty. At the same time, Woo does a good job
of keeping us abreast of the action while simultaneously
keeping the screen interesting and lively. A great example
is the opening sequence where Deakins and Hale are box-
ing—it’s clever, intriguing, and clear.

So what goes wrong? Principally, it is two things: the

casting and the screenplay. Whoever cast this ﬁlm chose
people that somehow just don’t seem to ﬁt their parts.
Although everyone in the film does an admirable job, it
seems like they’re swimming against the current. For ex-
ample, Frank Whaley is Giles Prentice, the Defense
Department’s man on the job. But every time I looked at him
all I could see was the scared kid who is forced to share his
Kahuna Burger in Pulp Fiction.

I also couldn’t get over the feeling that Christian Slater
and John Travolta should switch roles. It seemed as if they
would be more comfortable and realistic in the role set aside
for the other. Travolta has said that he seized upon this film
as a chance to be the bad guy, but here he just looks strained
and confused. That coolness he epitomizes is lost in the
madness of his character.

But how much this is Travolta’s fault is another ques-
tion. The screenplay the cast is working with is not very
good. First, its development of Deakins, the central charac-
ter, is very weak. He moves very hastily and confusingly
from being a bitter, unethical genius to being simply another
criminally-insane idiot intent upon blowing up the world.

Another great problem is the action in the ﬁlm. This is
clearly not a straight action film, but the fight sequences

were far below the quality one would expect from any other 

John Woo ﬁlm. Few of the ﬁghts are really very interesting.
Take either the ﬁght in the cockpit or the gunﬁght in the

copper mine. The former looks more like two boys scufﬂing _
in a schoolroom than trained professionals trying to over- 3
come their ﬂight harnesses. The second is even more bland: ;
it’s just two guys at opposite ends of a tunnel, shooting atone ;
another. John Woo does all he can to make it interesting ;
(Slater’s well-choreographed dive, for instance), but ulti- ;
mately, nothing particularly entertaining is going on there. 1

So although I loved the cast, they seemed poorly utilized. ,
Similarly, I got the feeling that Woo’s talent was underused. :
He did everything he could, but it simply wasn’t enough to 1
rescue the ﬁlm. Instead, it becomes mildly interesting but :
not stirring, like watching a close game between two basket- 2
ball teams at the bottom of their division: everyone’s trying, I
but outside factors (here the screenplay) make the whole I
thing extraneous. The result is thatBrokenArrow would be I
a good film for video rental, but not worth the cost of a trip I
to Roanoke. Let’s just hope that Woo can comethrough with ‘I

a real blockbuster in his next attempt.

 

    

PAGE 4

@112 Tiling-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Confidential from the Phi

To the Steering Committe of Mock Conven-
tion: Congratulations. It seems as though you have
successfully predicted that Senator Robert Dole
will be the Republican presidential nominee. More
than that, this past weekend was one of the most
exciting this campus has seen in years. Mock Con
1996 will undoubtedly be remembered forever as
an incredible time. Thank you.

To Lewis Carroll: If the Fancy Dress
Committe has anything to do with it, you may
become the next Jane Austen. More than a century
later,Alice in Wonderland is as popular as ever. “A
Mad Tea Party” seems to have generated a positive
response among the students. Come March 22, will
there be a rush on mushrooms at Harris-Teeter?
Only time will tell.

To our esteemed colleague at The Trident,
Lamar Vrllerez Over the years, you have pissed off
quite a few people (us included), but your brash
sense of humor has always been entertaining to say
the least. We will certainly miss reacting to your
column. Unlike most journalists, you’ve ﬁgured
out that it doesn’t matter if you have something to
say if no one reads you. Turning to the back page
of The Trident will never be the same again.

To all those people who do too much: A wise
man once said, “You have one heart, treat it well.”
We couldn’t agree more. March can beta pretty
crazy month. Mock, Con, Fancy Dress, term pa-
pers, initiations, exams... It’s enough to make you
crazy. Remember to relax, go outside, and breathe.
College is supposed to be fun. You have the rest of
your life to be miserable.

To the Motion Pciture Academy: Can we say,
whatever? 'Moviegoers are getting fed up with the
Academy dissing our favorite ﬂicks. No one can
justify snubbing Clueless as this year ’s best picture.
Not only is Alicia Silverstone a major hottie, but
she’s one kick-butt actress. As if...

Quote of the Week

“When I was at W&L, Mock Con was--”
“Are you going to tell them what it was like when
Lee was here?”

—Dan Quayle, interrupting Sen. John Warner at a
press conference following Quayle ’s speech.

OPINION

The Rirg-tum Phi, March 8, 1996

Ganarurrou Lax

Some irrational patterns of behavior develop at an early age...

,-,._, .

Privatizing government services ‘

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98

Most people, even economists, be-
lieve that there are some services which
a free market cannot provide. As I
wrote in my last column, the only
justification for wasteful and distort-
ing taxes is that they are necessary to
fund certain government operations.
In this column, I will look into two
examples of alleged “public goods”
which the market cannot provide: cur-
rency and road maintenance.

Throughout history, governments
have controlled the making and valua-
tion of currency. Indeed, governments
have always had a strong incentive to
control the money supply. Such con-
trol allows them to tax their citizens
secretly. Governments always tend
to debase their currencies. They do so
by means of two weapons: legal ten-
der laws and minting privileges. Le-
gal tender laws force citizens to ac-
cept government money, at whatever
value the government sets! Com-
bined with the minting privilege, this
power allows the government to cre-
ate worthless money and force its
citizens to accept it. Thereby, the
government is able to pay its debts at
no cost: it can spend with impunity.
In fact, governments have sometimes
tried to avoid massive inﬂation of the
currency, because of the ﬁnancial in-
stability that could result. But all
governments have inﬂated signiﬁ-
cantly, quite literally destroying
people’s wealth.

Knowing that the government has a
vested interest in preserving its money
monopoly, we should be suspicious of
its justiﬁcations for such control. One
such justiﬁcation is that a free market
could not determine or punish fraud in
coinage. This argument rings hollow,
for in fact free markets have done so.
Periodically through history, govem-
ment money has so broken down that
private money has achieved wide cir-

culation despite being illegal. By mea-
suri ng size and weight, merchants may
easily determine a coin’s validity.
Scraping and notching coins are other
ready methods.

But wouldn’t it be inconvenient to
carry around gold and silver coins all

the time? Isn’t paper ﬁat money more

convenient? Where convenience calls,
the market answers. Banks would
issue paper notes
to customers

standstills, and rural highways lie in
disuse. Under a free-market system,
businesses would build roads where
and how their customers desired.

In the present system, commuters
beneﬁt from enormous subsidies on
urban freeways. The only cost for
driving on these highways is the gaso-
line tax, which punishes rural and ur-
ban travel alike. The result is over-
crowding, espe-
cially during

who would pre-
fer to deposit
their hard money
and use the pa-
perforexchange.
Laws would

Some people would
complain that prices
would be too high un-

rush hour, when
demand over-
whelms supply.
Under private
enterprise, a
market price

punish fraud, , , would lower
p rev e nting der (1 private [mter- quantity de-
banks from giv- ° manded at cer-
ing out paper state] system’  taintimes,ensurl
unbacked by now, few government ing smooth
metal. But ' travel. Toll
wouldn’t this raads have toll booths would
system fall into certainly not be
chaos? Surely b0oths'  _what undue burdens
weneedgovem- about the hldden compared to

merit to set up a

costs of government;

rush-hour traffic

universal stan- jams.

dard. Again, ' 2 Theinterstate
private busi- namely’ taxatl0n' highwaysshould
nesses will have also be private.

an incentive to
accommodate their customers. Coin-
makers and note-issuing banks will
try to grab the greatest demand for
their products. They can only get this
demand by making their products con-
venient and readily usable for their
customers. No customer will want a
coin whose validity is in doubt, or a
paper note whose worth is unreliable.
If the government is not suitable
for maintaining the money supply,
surely it must be the proper vehicle
for building and maintaining roads. It
is difﬁcult to envision how private
industry would deal with that issue.
But the fact is that government
roads have failed miserably. Local
roads suffer from disrepair, commuter
highways are burdened by rush-hour

The interstate
railroads of the 19th and early 20th
centuries were private; why not inter-
state highways too? Some people would
complain that prices would be too high
under a private system. Right now, few
government roads have toll booths. But
what about the hidden costs of govem-
ment; namely, taxation? We don’t see
how much we pay for roads now, but we
do pay. The cost hits us somewhere,
even if we don’t see it.

A more serious objection is that
private interstates would be monopo-
listic and thus more expensive and
inefﬁcient. But many highways are
already in place, enough to make the
market competitive. In plotting out a
long trip, we consider the various routes
we could take. Under a private system,

we would take price into account, and
the owners of the interstates would
compete for travelers by offering low
prices. Furthermore, airplane, ship,
and railroad services already compete
for our long-distance dollar. Competi-
tion in interstate travel would be plen-
tiful.

Finally, we consider local roads.
Only here does an incentive problem
seem to make private enterprise un-
workable. Surely we can’t charge toll
on local roads! I can imagine two
possible scenarios. First, neighbor-
hood developers could own the roads
of their own neighborhoods or con-
tract with road companies. They
would try to make their streets as safe
and accessible as possible in order to
raise property values; they could re-
coup the cost of maintenance in the

‘ price of houses. Second, roads could

have electronic devices that monitor
vehicles’ traveling distance without
inconvenient toll booths. Analogous
devices work to measure how much
electricity or water we use. Outﬁtting
vehicles with sensory devices would
allow road companies to send monthly
bills to users.

All these private systems are much
fairer than the current system because
they charge the users themselves for
the services they use, and they are
more efficient because they incorpo-
rate the proﬁt motive government lacks.

In these two examples, we see that
there are no fundamental reasons why
private enterprise cannot manage what
government currently does. The inge-
nuity of the entrepreneur overcomes
incentive problems by tying services
to cost (such as road service to house
prices). Thus, we see that government
does little if anything, to balance the
deleterious effects of taxation with its
“services.”

But almost everyone agrees that j

government must perform these two ’

functions: justice and protection. In
my next series of columns, I will
examine the proper role of govem-
ment in criminal justice.

@112 itling-tum lﬂlri

Executive Edith!‘ Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor Qnnlt Bookwgnef

Assistant Sports Editor
Features Editor

Bethany Bauman
(‘indie Young, Courtney E. Miller

Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Rnhert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Genner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wlu. edu

Dole fails to address local concerns

MY VIEW
Nova Clarke, ’96

Now that Mock Convention is over, I can stop
pretending to be a Republican-—thank God for small
favors. Actually what I was doing wasn’t too much
of a stretch. I am rooting for Buchanan because with
him as the Republican nominee, Bill Clinton would
be looking to a much smoother reelection campaign.
He also did bring up important issues like the shaft-
ing of the American worker. The Democrats have
used this as a means of bringing up the increase in the
minimum wage, and Bob Dole ﬁnally got the hint
that people other than the CEOs of major corpora-
tions are potential Republican voters and that they
are also worried about the future.

Personally, I am sick of the campaign already. I
mailed in my absentee ballot this week and I didn’t
even have to vote for President because Clinton is
running unopposed in Florida. Instead, I was voting
on the reorganization of the county government and
that is what’s truly important—local government.
Sure we need the national government to protect us
from hostile countries, but according to the Repub-
licans, that may be the only thing we need it for.
However, how many of the Republican candidates
are actually focusing on local government? Bob
Dole is racking up the support of senators and
governors but we never hear of him sitting down
with a local mayor, except for a photo-op or talking
with the mayor about what block-grants may mean
to that community or how the poor students in the
community are going to eat with the elimination of
food stamps. _

On to other things. The government is due to shut
down again next week. I think if Bob Dole had real

leadership capabilities and any connection to the
people of America he would make sure that this does
not happen. Realistically, people don’t really care
whether the budget is balanced in 5,7, or 9 years.
Clinton has made concessions and agreed to balance
the budget within 9 years—accept it. How realistic
is it to event think that we can balance the budget?

Sure we need the national
government ' to protect us
from hostile countries, but
according to the Republi-
cans, that may be the only
thing we need it for.

The future isn’t very predictable. Another disaster in
the Midwest and California would drive up costs.
What are we going to tell those farmers? “Sorry,
we’ve reached a balanced budget, and now we can’t
provide any relief for you.” Of course, Bob Dole just
requested that the expenditures of the US on UN
actions be detennined. It turns out that the US spent
between $6-7 billion on UN missions since 1993. To
you or me that sounds like a lot but when you
consider that it’s less than 4% of the defense bud-
get—it really isn’t that much. _

Other main events of the past week include the
meeting of TV executives with the President to unveil a
ratingsystem fortelevision programs. This panderstothe
desires of the religious right to protect children from the

violenoeonTV. lthink itwouldbeagreat idea if it actually
worked, but as someone else pointed out, if the parents
aren’t home to patrol the ratings, what’s the point?
Besides which, when something is advertised as being x-
rated and that children shouldn’t watch it, anybody who
is told not to watch it will be sitting intently in front of the
TV. I personally think everything on PBS should be rated
XXX,then peoplewould watch itandmi ght actually learn
something.

A commission was also established to reduce teenage
pregnancies. Now some groups are complaining that
there are too many celebrities on the panel and others are
complaining that there are too many Planned Parenthood
people on the panel. Actually the Republicans should be
happy to be represented by Planned Parenthood since
Barry Goldwater’s first wife was one of the founders of
the group (one of the random facts I learned doing
research for Mock Con). There is much more to reducing
pregnancy than not talking about abortion and one of the
main ways of doing so is demonstrating the people care.
Perhaps if the Republicans demomtrated that they have
ideas and care about what happens to people they ’d be in
a little better shape now.

I have to admit that Mock Convention was an
experience. I’ve been made an honorary Alaskan
Republican by some Republicans who watched the
convention on C-SPAN, now I need to break the fact
to them that I will be voting for Clinton in November.
I also need to remember that a couple of the speakers
who are W&L alumni are going to receive letters
pointing out that the next Mock Convention will still
be Republican. In addition I’ve fulﬁlled that require-
ment that you walk in the other side’s shoes. l’ve
been a Republican for a few days and P..I. O’Rourke
was right, it’s not that hard because they are devoid
of ideas, except dreams of defeating Clinton in
November—bring on San Diego and Pat Buchanan.
GO PAT GO!!!

~—-..»._...

 

w DREAM LAND

The?‘Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 1996

Richard Weaver

munism, because nobody in their right
mind could have denied America a
daily look into a perfect world. My

the Corral.

Jeeps, especially ones
with drivers who look like Daisy Duke,
could part wherever they wanted, in-

OPINION

9 ‘Hazzard: going back to the basics

Buena Vista.
W&L Security’s Suzukis would be
required to ram into each other at least

friends, it’stime to cludin g the once a day in pursuit of freshmen who
go back to this Lee Chapel parked in the Corral illegally. New,
I find myself wishing things were simpler time. spots and on unscratched Suzukis would be ready
like they used to be.’ We don’t need It’s amazing I I . d tl curbs. for use in the next day’s work.
more complications in life: the sim- how little it would rea lze recen y To create Every car, dorm room, library car-
pler the better. _ _ . take to'tum Lex- that there exists a Uta- the right reI,and Goshenrockwouldbeequipped
This wish applies to politics and ington into a full- . , Hazzard-like with its own CB radio. Some classes
educatioln and life in genplral. We have ﬂedged clone of P10 ofthis 3077, where atmosphere, would be conducted over the band:
to reeva uate what’s rea y important. Hazzard County. ' ' ' residents of ProfessorVelourPlaidjacket:
This came to me during the recent We’vegotenough pohtlcs ls based on Lexington and The Cold War was neither cold, nora
Mock Convention. . _ backroads, cows, harmless graft, where students would war. Discuss. Over.
 f:"“.":“::S rm‘ policemen are cheer-  “i ~“5°‘*£  
_ s ur e aco- _ _ more p ai , I noises s IS mg on.
to be the motto. Why make things hol. , “Uncle fully foyled by halnng thatisevenpos- Most prophetic for the
morecomplicated? Everyonegetswhat Jesse s” sounds the. h t ddo sible.Skintight Hazzardization of Lexington is the
they want and they’re happy about it. like a good name 1r a SP“ w n jeans would be name “General Lee.” The area outside
lrealized recently that there exists for a student over their eyes where a necessity, or Lee Chapel is calling out for the Gen-
a utopia of this sort, where politics is houseinthe coun- ’ , atthevery least, eral Lee car to be parked in front.
based 011 h31'm1€SS graft. Where P0- try. Noone would all roads  t0 dlrt skin tight kha- People who get married in Lee Chapel
licemen are cheerfully foiled by hav- blinkaneyeifyou ad ° ° kis. Women can use it instead of a horse-drawn
ing their hats pulled down oyer their said, “Hey, party ro 8' Thls place ls would be en- carriage. The rest of the time President
eryles,vyhereallrﬁargslqaadtogigroads. at Ur’ilcleT.Il::sse’s called H azz ard couraged tfq Elrolg can drive it. h Id b
isp ace isca e azzar oun y, tonig t. ey’re wear cut-o xington, in s on, wou e so
and it exists on “The Dukes of gonna have County‘ jean shorts, ex— much better if we shed our
Hazzard.” moonshine and cept if they re- sophistications and returned to life as it

“The Dukes of Hazzard” is the best

grain punch!”

sembled Boss

is in Hazzard, where the sun is always

TV show on cable now. I don’t know
why it hasn’t been in syndication in the
past couple of years. The only logical
reasons would be 1) Satan or 2) Com-

Next thing you could do to make
Lexington more like Hazzard County:
road construction. Students could
speed through barricades to park in

Hogg’s fat wife Lulu, in which case
she would never be seen by anyone,
ever. Clothing for Fancy Dress would
be purchased at the prom rental store in

shining, the roads are always dirt, and
the outdoors is covered with astroturf
and plaster rocks. If it doesn’t happen
soon, I’m moving to West Virginia.

5' Y VIEW
Paul Saboe, ’97

Honor has always been heralded as the comer-
stone of the Washington and Lee Community, a
notion that distinguishes us from other university
communities. Of late however, honor has become a
little too much a catch-phrase for self-congratulation
rather than an ideal that guides our every action. I
thought it ironic that every speaker during the Mock
Convention thought to praise our honor code while
some underage students thought only to praise a
ﬂask. I do not condemn drinking, but is it dishonor-
able to drink while underage? (In other words, is it
dishonorable to break the law?) Taken a step further,
is it dishonorable to purchase alcohol with a false ID,
to misrepresent oneself? Though a minority would
argue that such actions are indeed dishonorable, a
clear majority would probably argue “not” to one or
more of these questions. Does the fact that students
at other colleges drink underage and use false IDs
justify us doing the same when we have an honor
code and they do not? Can excuses ever replace
honor? , . . , _ V

 _.l-Ionor is not withou_t__i_ts_arnbiguities and perhaps ,

I have been taken in by a few. I therefore wonder

what responses would be to the following questions
of honor. Is it dishonorable to lie at a party or social
function? Is it dishonorable to take an unopened
cereal box from the D-Hall? Isis dishonorable to ﬁll
up one’s cup at the Co-op with Pepsi, gulp it down,
refill one’s cup, and then proceed to pay for one
drink? yes, these are minor, even silly infractions,
but is not honor an ever-present notion, even in the
mundane activities that make up the vast majority of
our lives?

We are all well-versed in the “do not lie, cheat or
steal” principle. But are there certain limits to this
principle? Is one required to tell the truth, but only
while on is in Rockbridge County? Is stealing
accepted as long as it is off campus and occurs during
non-school hours? Furthermore, since the honor
code does not specifically state

do not lie, cheat, steal or rape,” does that imply
that rape is both permitted and honorable?

Listening to my fellow students, I have begun to
realize that there are many who believe in the honor
code, albeit a very limited version (whether is be
limited geographically, to major infractions, or to
lying, cheating and stealing).

As a W&L student, I find this quite disheartening.

I do not recall ever having read General Lee discuss ,
the limits of honor. To such an esteemed man, honor

was without bounds, a principle, that was held to the

Honor not measured by part

heart and that guided all of one’s actions, not just
some of one’s actions or one’s actions at a certain
time or place. It is clear that we have abandoned our
duty to our namesake. Even more frustrating, we
have abandoned our duty to ourselves by placing
limits and qualiﬁcations on honor. In the Student
Handbook, itstates that “No violation of this trust
is too small to be ignored, for we understand that
honor is not measured by degree.” Obviously, we
do not understand what this statement suggests
since we make excuses and set limits on honor
every day.

Perhaps some of you agree with the notion that
honor is without bounds. And for those of you who
have embraced such a notion whether before or for
the first time today, the moment for acting on prin-
ciple is now. Put into practice the notion of honor
without bounds in all that ‘you do and in all that you
seek to do, wither it be on the hill, on campus, or a
thousand miles away. Make yourself a living ex-
ample of honor for all to imitate. For those who
demand to do more, hold accountable your friends
and fellow students to a similar notion of honor. The
Washington and Lee honor code will only be a
meaningful, strong, and all-embracing as the student

. body decides it shouldbe. We certainly, cannot wish
..f9r it to be less. f9.r.h0_n0.r is the om‘: tradition W‘? can
' least afford to lose. ‘

 

PAGE 5

Society of the Arts

The Society for the Arts invites
Washington and Lee faculty and
students to join us for an evening
including a showing of the award
winning documentary, “Patently
Offensive; Porrn Under Seige,” a
panel discussion of the critical is-
sues surrounding pornography in
the electronic age, and an opportu-
nity to voice your views and con-
cerns dealing with pornography,
ethics and individual freedom 7:30,
Mar. 12 in duPont Auditorium.

OCTAA meeting

Attend an OCTAA-On Campus
Talking about Alcohol-program
Wednesday, Mar. 13 and Sunday,
March 17 from 5:30-8:30 p.m. in
Room 113 of the University Center.
OCI‘ AA teaches students how al-
cohol affects their body based on
quantity/frequency choices, to esti-
mate their biological risk for alco-
hol related problems and to make
low-risk drinking choices. Call 462-
4501 to sign-up for this
nonjudgemental, research-based
program.

LAX coach needed

Help needed coaching middle
school girls’ LAX team. If inter-
ested, call Prof. Millon (law school)
at x8993.

4:

GENERAL

NOTES

 

SDC applications

The Student Development Com-
mittee is beginning its recruitment
for next year. Members of the SDC
participate and help organize
phonathons in which alumni are
asked for donations to the Annual
Fund. Members also maintain rela-
tions with alumni through activities
such as Write-a-thons.

Applications will be available
outside Carol Calkins office in the
University Center. They are due
outside this office by Mar. 13, and
10 minute interviews will be con-
ducted on Mar. 18 and 19. A sign-
up sheet for interview times is also
available outside Ms. Calkin’s of-
ﬁce.

EC petitions

Petitions for class officer and EC
representatives will be available in
front of Carol Calkins office begin-
ning on Monday, Mar. 11, 1996.
Petitions are due at the mandatory
meeting for all candidates at 5 p.m.
Monday, Mar. 18, 1996 in the EC
office.

Dance Lessons

Frank Roupas will be giving
dance lessons in the Fairfax Lounge
from 6 to 9 p.m. for the next ﬁve
Mondays. The lessons are $30 for
the series.

Challenge for Charity results announced

The results from the Student Development Committee’s “Challenge for
Charity” are in, and the winners are Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship and the
Society for the Arts! Six campus organizations competed during two night last
month: Inter-Varsity Christian Felllowship, Society for the Arts, Pi Beta Phi,
Lamba Chi Alpha, Alpha Phi Omega, and the Resident Assistance. They
collectively raised a total of $13,320 for Washington and Lee’s 1995-1996
Annual Fund. This fund provides for the operating costs of the university, such
as professor’s salaries and utility bills, which means it lowers tuition costs for all

students.

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship raised the largest number of pledges, 32,
and the Society for the Arts raised the largest amount of money, $3,795, out of
all competing organizations. Each received $100 to donate to the charity of its
choice. Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship donated its prize to Family Life
Services’ Pregnancy Crisis Center, and Society for the Arts chose to donate its

$100 to RACES.

Thanks again to all the members of the

"Challenge for Charity’! '

 

  

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesda Th (1 F 'd S turd
’ 900 pm , Paviion
I i Mock Convention 1 M: . 5
Women’: History Zllont/9 1
lmnaﬁasebalvs. 3pm..8aehIlvs 7p.n1.NomenAnoluritn 4p.m.,Woimn‘sLac:om 8p.:n..Tiodnoour 10p.m..GHQPub
WestVa.TeotL WestVATedL Protassorsiwsonotitistniy vsjiidgawatat ‘ﬁlavanrlotheealous’ "romAoousti" J‘ 8
otwoinanatwﬁl.
8 pm. Troubadour
Q ‘Au Hovoiv. Les Enfants’
123 pm. Man‘: Lacrosse 8 pm, tontest 3 p.m., M&W1'ennis 3 pm, Women's Tennis 2.7 pm, my Lacrosse
,0m"wam.3Tam Ctmtconoert 1 vs.Univ.otSouth . vs.Keoyon 1 4 1
vs hwfngm Cologa 3 pm’ mm. vs, swam” T-stat day-Worrieefs History Monti id 30 pm. GHQ Pub 1 10112 wan Tennis
3P~m-TMMW , 3P'“"5°”°""‘s“"““" ‘csairseacir . 10 a.m., Track Invitational
'Vanyaon42ndStnaet‘ W ._ .. 4p.m.,wuneq~;t.actosse
' vatynchbwg  ?p.m. &9p.m.SABFrlm woos‘ 7p.m.&9p.m. SAB Film mos‘
St Patrick's D37 8 y.rri.. Lanlest ’ ‘P 9 pm, SA8 Concert ‘Cootio‘ FANCY DRESS H2 p.m.. W&M Lacrosse
 17 18 -«»-- 19 20 no .r 21 . 22 23
vs_ Sawﬂy st 5111680! Pavilion F
39.m., Men's Tennis 3} [-
3 Pm.}80l3$i vs. Averott Coﬁege 2 pm, M&W Track I,
aoemgesaaei A p ‘.3
1 Mt. WOMYS Temis 3:50 pm. Women‘: Tennis 12:30 pm. 60%!  3 ;.~m.. Sasebal vs. 4 pm, Women's Lacrosse :0 pm. GHQ Pub 30 ‘ W 5”“
vs.MWCo3899 2 vswiliamscolege 2 5 :3  Harfpden-Sydney  ,3 SW,” 2 8 Cmnem lg  2a.m..‘-Vomon‘staaosse
8 pm,’ Lgnfgst 8 D m Lewes‘ V 2 Lemst. Ocelot Pay:
a. . Uriversity Wind Ensemble J‘   9 pm Gm .,  om. Troubaooar 5,». m..Le1:te$t Um. smawomsza
6 Q Mays Comedian ‘Marx Pitta‘ ‘R959’ SM. Yroubam ‘Fresh’
8:00 pm, GHQ .   8 L 4 , 2pm.. zenhsa Omw PW:
Heatth Ed.. ‘Straight Talk‘  3;30;,sm., womeris Terms ~-V <_ Campy  myumowmgi

organizations who participated in the

‘‘WOMEN IN ART” LIBRARY DISPLAY CASES

 

 

 S The Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 1996 V

 

CATCH THE FEVER 7 PM U ’
 :1 II nnjjaa. *a:*FREE TRIPS & CASH!!*** 9

§%' I TIVII W ll-I27 Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS or CASH withr

—,  _ America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun

C6“  Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

More Monday, More Games, 833! Sarvlcel‘ (800) 95‘BREAK! ‘

172 Walker Street, Summit Square, next to the DMV
(540) 483-9664

;:::::.;':::;:::;:°°"" :.;;_; s PAID  Oogﬁwﬁgu 
. Z13? '2ZI..,...... ..  WEEK! 47' HOME;
PROCESSING   '"

  
  
    
   
    

Products!

* we often California Tan,
the nations #1 best selling

   

  

 

 

     

   

   

 

     
 

latlon! Y
‘ Certiﬁed consultants!
' New Member Special:
30 Days for $30 ~ __ V "
\ Mr      
8*:.:;.°: .":r.'.r=        
‘° '.s.-'.':: ;‘:.:r"'- NO EXPERIENCE 
10 man. - 11 p.m. _ . V _ p _ . . .

.2 ..:=..:-.-:*-:*:.'......  NECESSARY! .

on: ma: 1-Anulua SESSION M *3  DETAILS: RUSH LONG SASE '
one Coupon Pct customer 5”“ 3’''~W : . I 7’

1:-inure.-an-oi-In-c-t____uouv!.clcO)46O-065‘ 77“ '  
" ' T “ " ' ""”""""""""“"""""""“""““"'"“"‘——-—==-I--I-“"'---* , ' - $t3II.7".'II'E 216 
,_ ’ I. 35 1 3]’ as FEDERAL Eff? ' _
Crre RING Tum Pl-1’-l IS BROUGHT TO you   HOLLTKOOD  3 3030 C A
THIS week BY Tl-Fe Numaea <l~ “""‘““"""“"”"I E “" —‘ II’

EACH ENGLISH IN KORE/\— Positions available monthly. BA or 5.5. 1'

One urn /imi lei! gunning - $ 4 0. 00 degree requgedd. 5LJSd$l8,5OO—25,4O(fDgyrI. /‘xccognodatuorg & roundtrtp FREEM l I ,]r,,f,e,,(.::1,, MS. ssudeﬁts d Ov “B H d ‘
, r‘ r , r , C 55 oft 1', ; one is current avaia e or e e tu ents ationwi e. er i ion iin ai
ma. a.:5.%a;;".:.....f2..:;::?;aﬁ:5ft;.-a%0;i.:“t..gag. 2;. ea, newfdjggg gljtgéflntsnjre 0
n5’outA G.#m».S’t~et,e£1m»-glen 560U|.l<0r6a1?>5-090~ _ , l:°§fI§§.i°§§ro?.°na3o..fe;Ir°}g sr...r...’i.rr,.1.‘,.e.-r.§"s.;§l'.a'l"’. "5 '°° °' "5 °"’ "'

463 9588 EL: Ol1—82—2—555—JOB5(5627) FAX: O11-82—2-5o2—4r/\X(452 9) (I-800-263-6495 e_J._;tF5342I
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII *
I I
I ‘ ' I’ // 9 E : \  ; / E
: -ex 31‘ S : 7/lac?/date : \ ‘ v// :
I I mtnomae stones” ' _ ._ . r
: : : E   :

I. , i . . I
E D 0" t Let - 5 Hardware, Paint, and Related Items : a I‘ S :
E Your Student 5 Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. E . : 7*
: G0 Hun : E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 : A B  E
I I I I
u I 8 am - 3 pm - Monday
: : 58 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday 5 y. V
: : : 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday :
: :  : 9am-3pm-Sunday I.-
‘ I = I I
' I I I
: : "hi" ’ _. _ : Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad :
: :    : All you can eat $4.99 '_'
' I I I _t‘
E Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties 5 ' . 3 . E Thursday — 10% off food — with student ID 5 pl
: Fresh Salads & Soups : . ~ ‘ ‘ - . 
: Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees - ‘A : Friday - Seafood Nite - : l
- I V I - I ‘
: Candlelight Diners : 3p '0   9   to t : Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout : ,1 ’
I I E  _ A _ Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib, I l
5 Give Your Student : ; ‘ 0' Ia‘ company! Ftae I 2 Vegs’ Salad $895 1*
I . V - . . I ..  I j
: H . ; su plies. postage! No - rt
. a omecooked Meal With Our .  - t ! B . ! . . ,, 1
. _  .  . . _ . p H
: Point Card : :6 ‘nod.   . -
' 19w.w h‘ s.,Le‘ ,VA2 so - ‘ ' : - ’  I - . . ..
: as   44 : '““‘° '3“ °"‘““° :..1?.W;Y‘£a§.:*s£°:1.S.ta.‘:ez<:n.Is£9I:».‘£.£4.§9....: *

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII   ‘p

E    sac. some 216  
9W“”’““‘ ‘W’ 1861 u.EBnEmu.   
.'7{05Ei£)5 Lounge   I

      

e 7, Box 99A ‘
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Near the Home Center Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.
phone 4649499 The Buffet is served from 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. .,

We’ll be waiting for you.

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to ?
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexin ton VA 7‘

'lF?R__£.$vTRlP$ u

 

 

  

      
 

SPRING BREAK '96 - SELL - . . ‘I’ " " ' 'Is'%1'c'1i§'n" "§ir'1'-r"é'2?§' ' ' ' ' ' ' - ‘
 Do ‘mu want VISA 8: Mastercard Credit Cards‘? 1501  Ban BLVD ,
°3“‘JP“5 ’°P"°5°“‘a‘i"°5' L°“’°S""“° O? ' 0 Now you can have two of the Inuit recognized and nhnhuinnnz ' 

‘° "“““°“’ C‘“‘°““’ D*‘Y'°““ 3“ $55 ‘ I cranium mm: mnct..vIuo tuna uuuscasda ~

Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648

4849 n ¢au|;_"In your slime.‘ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

2 lwmtW3ﬂ &m|t
ctutorrar 3-IAVI: BEEN nznnm DOWN’ annual
mean and Mirlnomil the cram cudsynu

cuanppmved mmredmey. too-A cuanrmnzana
denerve Ird need Cor-— ID—!!)OKS—DEPa\H'.Tl-SEN!‘
EH

I
g I
3 I
| I
[ I
1 I
- :
5'l‘O1tE5—11Jl110t¢-~E1~I‘1“£.R’!‘A.1l~MENT—- : NAME 1;
EIIJEMZY OKSH-TI2KE’!8—-—RESTAURANT‘3-— ' ﬁDDRESS .
| I
3 I
. I
| C
| I
5 I
3 I
L .2

Earn up to $2000+/mo. working for Crui
Shipsorhnnd-Touroompanics-+WorIdTrave
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:

206 971-3550 ext. C53421

E wo'rr::.s—Ma'ret.s—uns——cr-.n RENTa\15-
' Izemtns-annwo nun» roux cmmrr RNIINGI CIIY . STATE ._ ZIP __._..__....
STUDENT? Yes Na 53:

SIGNATURE

503% Iklaﬁad III qiauui uI&1nIﬂt d Ilﬂitilllili llﬂrmltknuli. ht.
Vining-ngtamurl IndzIIrtd'Vl$I\ll$n.ir:I¢Imdvt5Amk«ndonIl

nut. runs an nisx coupon rotuv

 

In turn downs!

wnﬂwm in credit checks!
“gt “g1S""" in security dcnnsit!
-*2...---t we
gut IV" Seam ms couron romw
Your: cnsnn cmns ARE wurtuc!

  

   

The Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 1996

    
  
    
 

i

Pep eridge Farm
Gar ic

 10 oz.

 
 
 

ﬁe

ﬁTT

'._.;'

I Harristeeter

Harris Teeter

Pizza

20.5-
22.85 oz.

2/O0

Ore-lda
Tater

TO  32 oz.

ers All Natural

ogurt Or

lee Cream

 
   

Winter sports
look to future

THE BIG FAN, from page 8

petition, in which the Generals could not compete.

The losses ofDavid Stillman and Craig Sears will hurt the
Generals, butjunior Steve Brigance, sophomore John Reed
and freshmen Brad Wymore and Tom Cox will return.

Oh yeah, did I mentionjunior Nathan Hottle, who tore up
the pool once again this season? Hottle automatically
qualified for the Division III championships in the 2001M
and 200 breast.

With Hottle still around next year, it’s hard to imagine the
men not remaining competitive.

Women’s Swimming (8-5): The Generals pieced to-
gether an impressive season and capped it with their third
straight ODAC/Atlantic States title.

Along the way, W&L extended its domination of the
ODAC to 25 straight meet wins.

As expected, senior Rebekah Prince swam superbly. She
was awarded ODAC Co-Swimmer ofthe Year and qualified
for the Division III championships in the 200 back.

The loss of Prince to graduation deals a huge blow to the
team. Still, the Generals, who are composed of almost
entirely underclassmen, should only improve next season.
Juniors Laura Marshall and Anne Spencer, sophomores
Bligh Wollner and Megan Wiedmaier and freshmen Marg-
aret Hoehl and Greta Richter provide an impressive founda-
tion for the Generals.

Wrestling (1-5): Things did not go as well as hoped for
the wrestlers this season.

W&L beat Johns Hopkins, 33-14, for their lone victory,
although the Generals fought valiantly in close losses to
Davidson, 25-24, and Newport News Apprentice, 25-21.

Senior Colin Looney grappled superbly this season,
finishing with a 10-9 record at 190 pounds. Junior Adam
Branson, sophomore Allen West and freshman John
Grumbine also turned in impressive performances. This trio
will return next season when the Generals hope to offset the
losses of seniors Looney, Rob deClerk and Cary Hansel, and
return to wrestling prominence.

Indoor Track: It may take a long time before W&L
athletics ever sees the likes ofsuperhuman senior Josephine
Schaeffer again.

After all, Schaeffer has a sport for every season: cross

PAGE 7

ATHLETE
or the WEEK

Amie Jenkins
Men’s Lacrosse

J unior Ande Jenkins has been a major con» .
tributor in the men’s1acrosse team ’s 3-0 start.

Last Wedensday "at Lynchburg, Jenkins
struck in a big way for W& L. Hejnotched four. . . '
goals, inciuding three in the ﬁnal period, as
W&L blew open the doors for an '11-5 win. , j _~

Jenkins foliowed that upwith three goals , ~
and two assists in a=15-3 demolition of Vita 
ginia Wesleyan. . Jenkins ‘has coliected 13
goals and 4 assists so far this season.

country in the fall, indoor track in the winter, and outdoor
track in the spring, and she runs each with astounding
success. Her latest accomplishments are wins in the one-
mile and two-mile runs at the ODAC championships and a
trip to the Division III championships in the 5,000 meter run.

Schaeffer may be irreplaceable, but the women’s track
team will still have plenty ofweapons. Juniors Nat Messmore
and Erin Gnidziejko, sophomore Carson Flowers, and fresh-
men lsaris Bonilla and Lisa Brennan will all return.

The men will have to cope with the losses ofseniors Brad
Paye, Harris Morrison and Stuart Hogue, but their arsenal is

      

* l 0' Stock Up & Save

far from empty. Omar Moneim and Marc Granger have
developed into serious shot put threats, and Sandy Hooper,
Jason Callen, Greg Ruthig and Will Olson have left their
mark in the running categories. It should not be surprising
if W&L improves on its third place finish at the ODAC
championships next season.

It would be easy to sweep this 20-55 winter sports record
under the carpet and move on, but that would not be doing

 

00

Senior Cam Dyer was
seiected to the GTE Col~

Senior Josephine
Schaeffer will compete

  

in the I)iViSi0n H1 Indbor Iege Division Academic these athletes justice. They gave their respective sports their
Track and Field Champi- AiI~Districtteam, covering best shot and we should recognize them for their efforts.
1  onships this weekend at Divisionll and III schoois, Success usually does riot come easily; it requires dedica-
Smith College. Schaeffer’ forthe second straight year. tion and time for rebuilding. With the abundance of young
- ' ' had rovisio all ual‘- D r is candidate fo the : 1 h ' t t , h ‘
H3"'!5 79919’ 5°’e.°t°d Va"°t'e5 O9 ﬁedlior the 3.005 inetér Gigs iscademic 311- aabiiiriiiutZ¥'2h‘Z'airp?$isv5§."ﬁi §~i“iJirii§Lyerfri§t°§y"?rZii
En "SI!   Nablsco Grahan, run in a January 2'? meet. America award’. winter, the athletes’ hard work will begin paying off.
uffms act. Orackers_rs.... ’ t J

$ A& AAAAAA

Chunk L_ight    

Starkrst 
na

   
 
   
  

  
    

AAAAAQ

 

 

6. 12 oz.
' Soft Drink, Feature

AAAAAAAAAAA’

AAAAAA‘

Hearty i

in FIAVUIAL run smu.

      

6 Pk. 12 Oz. Cans

oke Or Diet
Coke  

Selected Varie,ti

Ra u
Pasta auce

2/ O0

 

 

27.5-30 02.
F shl Sliced To Order Pantene Pro-V , m e 4
Lbew Sglt conditioner Or 3.-..i.-erie: 299
Ham lb. Shampoo __13 oz.
White Or Yellow Alpine Nestlé Assorted

Lace American _ 99
heese”°%.€"«¥.f:if-‘r’°"rr..

an .3/99¢,
Prices Effective Through March 12,1996

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, March 6 Through March 12, 1996 I in our Lexington store as
Only. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal r-ooa stamps.

®iyQj

A

  

Last Week:

BAassAi.l.- L, 6-1, at Mary Washington; L, 24-16, vs. WestVirginia
Tech; W, 9-6, vs. West. Virginia Tech

MLl\cnoass- W, 15-3, vs. Virginia Wesleyan

Wlncaosss - W, 11-5, at Bridgewater

M'IsNNis - L, '7-0, at James Madison

W'lkNNls - W, 9-0, at Hollins

. O
This Week
0
BA£lBALL- Sat. vs. Randolph-Maeo (2), 1:00 PM; ’l‘uea. vs.
Bridgewater, 3:00 PM; Thurs. vs. Savannah A&D(2), 1:00PM

MI..Acn.ossI- Sat. vs. Hampden-Sydney, 3:00 PM; h

Sun. vs. TBA, l2:00or3:00 PM (W&L Tourney)
WLACROBBl- Sat. vs. Colby-Sawyer, 3:00PM;

Thurs. vs. Lynchburg, 4:00 PM
M'l‘s:NNis- Sat. vs. Wooster, 1:00 PM
W'I‘:NNls- Sat. vs. Nazareth, 10 AM; vs. Rand-Macon, 2PM
GOLF - Thurs. at Emory & Henry, 12:30 PM

@112 itttng-tum ihlli

SPORTS

BASEBALL, TENNIS, LACROSSE, GOLF

‘ I ‘rt
MARCH 8, 19967

W&L splits wild series with W. Virginia Tech * 1

PAGE 8

 

By CHRIS PUGSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

innings.

Also, the Generals left ten

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team has put its highly
touted preseason standing to the test three times in the past two weeks
with matches against Guilford, Lynchburg and Virginia Wesleyan.
The Generals ran to easy wins in all three ODAC contests.

The Generals posted their first win in a 17-1 ODAC victory over
Guilford College on February 24,. The Generals were up 11-0 at the
half, and were never in danger of losing their lead.

Junior attack Ande Jenkins opened his season by scoring six
goals, while senior midfielders Jason Hurst and Adam Butterworth,
and sophomore attacks Tom Fallace and Sam Horstman each added
two. Three W&L freshmen, Andy Beckler, Johnny Gilman and
Steve Birdsall, made the first

Esposito, and Graig Fantuzzi to take a little back from this give

Highly-rated lacrosse squads
start spring in perfect fashion

crosse Tournament is scheduled for this weekend and the Generals
will be playing host to some tough competition. Seventeenth-ranked
Cortland State will play St. Mary’s (19) on Saturday at noon. Then the
ninth-ranked Generals will take on Hampden-Sydney (16). The
championship and consolation games will be played on Sunday.
The W&L women’s lacrosse team kicked off its competitive
season this past Wednesday with an ODAC matchup at Bridgewater
College. The Generals led 7-0 at the half against the Eagles.

But Bridgewater calne back in the second half, scoring four straight A

goals and cutting the Generals lead to three. But this was as close as
the Eagles would get, as sophomore Emily Gipson went on to score
her second goal of the game and sophomore Lorraine Taurassi
knocked in three straight. The Generals toppled Bridgewater with a
final score of 11-5.

W&L will be back in action at home tomorrow against Colby-
Sawyer College.

goals of their college careers .
Sophomore goalie Scott Jackson
and junior goalie Chris TeStrake
combined to make six saves
while allowing only one goal.

W&L had its second game on
the 28th in Lynchburg. The Gen-
erals had an easy 11-5 win over
the 22nd ranked Hornets.

   

Leading 9-6 in the seventh

inning, the Golden Bears came
to bat and scored four runs in the
top of the seventh.

con in a doubleheader.

l

Tennis begins seasonl

l
l

FROM Pm STAFF REPORTS 3

The W&L women’s tennis team began their season in style by
shutting out ODAC rival Hollins College, 9-0, on Wednesday.
Leading the Generals in the number one spot was senior Julie

W&L scored three goals
within 36 seconds to take a 5-2
lead in the first quarter, but then
hit a scoring drought that lasted
for over 33 minutes.

Lynchburg scored three be-
fore Butterworth could break the
Generals’ scoreless streak, up-
ping the score to 6-5. Jenkins

Ayers, who won her individual match. Sophomores Ericka Shapard
and Berry Blankinship won their two and three spot individual
matches and combined to win their doubles match.

Senior captain Shelley Sunderlnan, senior Helen Chandler and
freshman Mary Celeste Foster also had victories for W&L. Chan-
dler and Sunderlnan combined for a doubles victory. Ayers and
Foster also dropped their Hollins opponents in doubles competition.

The women are coming off their third-place showing last year at
the Division III Championships. They are ranked fourth in this

then scored three of his four goals
to ice the game.

The team made their ﬁrst
appearence at home last Satur-
day against Virginia Wesleyan.
Butterworth and Jenkins each
knocked in three goals and two
assists on the way to a 15-3 vic-
tory. Senior attack Russell Croft
also added two goals and three
assists. Jackson made five saves
and again allowed only one goal.

The 3rd annual W&L La-

The men’s lacrosse team, shown here in the 1995 Lee-Jackson Classic, is
poised for another strong campaign. W&L has started this season 3-0.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

year’s preseason.

The women host Nazareth at 10 AM Saturday and will take on
Randolph-Macon at 2 PM. Sunday, they will take on Washington

College at 10 AM.

The men’s team lost their opening match against Division I

opponent James Madison, 7-0.

Freshman Dale Pretila fought hard, taking his opponent to a
tiebreaker in the second set, but lost, 7-6(4).

This week’s match against Division I Radford University was
postponed due to inclement weather.

This weekend, the men will take on Division III powerhouse
College of Wooster at 1 PM Saturday. Last season, the Generals beat

Wooster, 5-2.

Publications Board Notice

The Washington and Lee Universitg Publications Board is now accepting applications for the following positions: Executive
Editor and Business Manager of The Ping-tum Phi and Editor and Business Manager of the Calyx Those interested in opplging
should submit a resume and cover letter to The Ping-tum Phis mailbox in the Universitg Center bg March 25. I996. at 5 p.m.

Though experience is the most desirable qualitg of candidates. there are no official requirements for these positions and
all interested students are stronglg encouraged to applg.

Generals survive controversial second game ending after dropping 24-16 slugfest ,

J

Then, in the bottom of the ‘
_ seventh the Generals came to bat
It has been 3 season °_f gwe and attempted to at least tie the’
and lake for the Washlnglon score to force extra innings.
and‘-ee hasehah team ' _ With two out and a runner on
Afterdroppmgae-1decision second, freshman shortstop Pat to
t°M31')’ Washington Cehege °n Hall came to bat and ripped at
Thursday, the Generals settled single to left ﬁeld, scoring the
in at Smith Field for a weekend tying inn and evening the score
series with West Virginia Tech. at 10_10_ ,
Shnda)’ 3fte1'n°°n’s double‘ At that moment, the umpires .
headerwasshortenedtoonenine- stopped the game and gave the ll’
inning contest, and the Generals win to the Gene,aiS_
attempted to eutseere the highly The logic behind the decision
Poienl Golden Bea’ °ffense- was that the Generals tied the
This 3PPT°3eh Was n°lf3V°" score and calling the game re-
ableforthe Generals. Bothteams Vet-ted the official score hack to ‘,
enlnhlned for 40 runs and 34 the previous full inning, giving
hits, showing that the American the Genet-his a 9-5 win_
Pastime is not Yeah)’ that h°"ing- Matt Ennigiotti picked up his
This Ohtslanding slhgfest Te’ first win of the season, giving up
sulted in a 24-16 win for the only two earned nine in six in_ V
Golden Bears after only seven nings of work. ’‘
innings of 3°h°n- Freshman Bob Weston closed
But, the Generals showedthat the game out for his first ea 
a steep deficit is no call for giv- save ‘
ing up. Trailing 13-It in'the bot- pat Haiias gatne-tying sing
torn 0f the fohrlh lnnlnga the will neverbeseen in the offlcia
Generals stormed back with scoring not win Chad Reynolds’
seVen 1'“ns- _  ‘ performance in relief because ev-
b They vgreret lecztvliiyl/lsenlc;1rt;i‘rs‘; Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor erythihg that happened in that
aseman eson 1 er,w o a , , _ _ , , _ - '
two hits nd a ame_hi h four The baseball team rolled up a football score Sunday at windswept Smith Field, losing to West Virginia S°V°“t.h "mmg was chased‘
a - g g T h 24 16 Th bat c 01 d ff Monda b t th Generals still scored nine runs to earn a series s lit Th1stw°'gameS°"°Spr°V°d ‘t
runs halted 1n- ec ’ ' ' e S 0 e 0 y’ u e P ’ to be a give and take series forthe
J D_eSl>1te the eonstant barrage Generals, who now stand at 3-5
°f hns b)’ the Golden Bears: of‘ The Generals were hurt by runners On base and squandered each had two hits apiece and Will and take situation against West for the season.
fensea the Generals sllstalned Seventotalerrorsinthegameand SeV6ra10pp0rtuni1i6St0SCOr6ad- Jordan added two RBIs forWash- Virginia Tech. This time, Gen- Washington and Lee opens
the” Own Sconng anackasconng letting the Bears maintain their diti0n8l IUIIS» ington and Lee. erals baseball was sparked with up its ODAC schedule at home
lhlfteen runs In the final fol" scoring attack. Mark Sappenﬁeld, Tommy Monday, the Generals aimed a bit of controversy. Saturday against Randolph-Ma- *

D‘.

I

7

$-

I

V

4

