Va“,

 {, :__‘_ </;§.Vi"»qVli:'--1:»-xi‘t:A
\7\'A“ivi‘#H*.”‘i In L.“ u'M~‘I3I‘-l Y
i..E7\W@QT$l VH M

NOV in ass-

Bringing Tinsel Town
to Lexington 9

Volleyball, Men’s
Cross Country
capture (DDAC titles (3

he ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

Q5

VOLUME 96, N0. 9

 Moc

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 10, 1995

Convention Surprise

Keynote speaker to be
announced Friday night

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

The keynote speaker for March’s 1996
Mock Republican Convention will be
named in a surprise announcement at Friday
night’s gala.

Media Coordinator Jeff Zeiger said the
speaker is an “extremely prominent Republi-
can” who will speak free of charge because
he supports “the educational process and
Mock Convention.”

Zeiger will distribute a press release to more
than 70 news organizations across the country
late Friday to ensure that Washington and Lee
students are the first to learn of the news.

In other news, Mock Con got a surprise of
their own Wednesday afternoon when Gen-
eral Colin Powell revealed he would not seek
the presidency.

“It makes our job a lot easier,” said Political
Chairman Bob Ross, “although we would have
loved it. Powell would have added spice to
the election.”

Furthermore, Powell declared his new af-
ﬁliation with the Republican Party which may
pave the way for Mock Con to pursue him
as a speaker.

This week’s surprises follow the State Del-
egation Fair held on Monday and Tuesday.

is required from any delegate; however, stu-
dents can get active by contacting their state
chairman. The $15 fee required to sign up for
a delegation serves as the student’s ticket into
the Convention. General admission tickets will
be available to parents, guests, and Lexington
residents for a higher price.

In anticipation of the Delegate Fair, state
chairmen have been researching their states’
political scenes. They have compiled lists of
state politicians, public officials, journalists,
and university professors with whom they will
consult. Most of the research will be completed
before Christmas. After the holidays, Mock
Con will practice with different political sce-
narios to help direct them in successfully choos-
ing the GOP nominee in March.

State chairmen are not the only busy Mock
Con members these days. Platform Coordina-
tor Andy Olmem hopes to present Mock Con’s
platform in January.

“The platform will be debated on the ﬂoor,”
said Olmem. “lt’s one of the intellectual as-
pects of the Convention.”

About two or three planks will actually be
discussed at the proceedings. Possible issues
for selection are the ﬂat tax and immigration.

After Friday’s gala, the next Mock Con
event will be held Tuesday, November 14.
William Kristol, editor of The Standard and
prominent GOP strategist, will speak on the
media and the presidential race.

Nearly 1250 students
signed up to serve as
delegates representing
the U.S. states and

A very, very Mock Con week

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

territories.

“This is the last chance
for students to get in-
volved in Mock Conven-
tion,” said Ross.

Students sign up this week at the State Delegation Fair to represent the various U.S. states and
territories for the Republican Mock Convention, as Friday's Presidential Gala draws near.

Several states have al-
ready reached their limit
for delegates, but some
states remain open. No
major time commitment

William Kristol to speak to W&L

BY ROBIN D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Chairman of the Project for the Republican Future
William Kristol will speak on Tuesday, November 14
at Lee Chapel. The8p.m. speech will be open to the
public and is sponsored by the 1996 Republican
Mock Convention. I

Based in Washington, D.C., the Project for the
Republican Future works to articulate and advance a
principled Republican agenda. In addition to his work
with this organization, Kristol serves as editor and

publisher of The Standard. The weekly national maga-
zine, founded this year by Rupert Murdoch, addresses
politics and policy.

Kristol received his A.B. and Ph.D. degrees in gov-
ernment from Harvard. He taught political science
from 1978-83 at the University of Pennsylvania, and
thenjoined the John F. Kennedy School of Government
at Harvard University. Kristol was assistant professor
of public policy there from 1983-85.

During the second term of the Reagan Administra-
tion, Kristol served as chief of staff to Education Sec-
retary William Bennett. He directed Alan Keyes’ 1988
Maryland U.S. Senate campaign, and was Chief of

Staff to Vice President Dan Quayle during the Bush
Administration.

As director of the Bradley Project on the ‘90s,
he led a survey of America’s current cultural, social,
and economic landscape. Kristol conducted this
project from January through October 1993 for the
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation of Milwau-
kee, Wisconsin.

In addition to his work with The Standard, Kristol
has authored numerous articles. His work has
appeared in numerous journals, including the
Chicago Law Review and theHarvard Journal of
Law and Public Policy.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Town merchants remind Lexington residents of Election Day on Tuesday by displaying patriotic paraphernalia.

l

hi file photo
Students enjoying the Presidential Gala in 1991.

Greeks unite to provide
Mock Con band party

BY Roam D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Funk-O-Matic will perform Saturday night at Zollman’s as part of
this weekend’s Mock Convention festivities. Mock Con received
financial support to sponsor the concert from thirteen fraternities, as
well as the four national sororities.

Julie Ayers, president of Pi Beta Phi, believes this is “a great idea
to get different organizations involved in something together.”
In addition, Sigma Nu president Charles Santo feels the concert
will “promote fraternity relations, and W&L community spirit
in general.”

David Stewart (‘96), who ‘helped co-ordinate the event, considers
it “a way of getting students together, an event to make this a
‘weekend.”’ The concert will be preceded Friday evening by the
black-tie Mock Convention Presidential Gala.

The performance by Funk-O-Matic presents a change from typi-
cal weekend band parties at individual fraternity houses. According
to Jason Bearden, president of SAE, the Zollman’s concert “will be
a great time, a chance to get everyone in the school excited about
being involved in the Mock Convention.” «

According to Stewart, Funk-O-Matic recently perfonned at SAE
with a blend of original songs and cover tunes. The Gainesville,
Florida band’s repertoire includes 70s hits and funk. Pi Kappa
Phi president Patrick White believes this weekend’s concert
“should be a lot of fun, and it’s a good idea to bring campus
organizations together.” -

Stewart encourages all students to check out Saturday’s concert,
which should begin around 9 p.m. He hopes that the event, in
conjunction with Friday’s gala, will bring students together for
the weekend. '

 

  A BEYOND    
THE BLUE RIDGE

Cleveland Browns confront

possible move to Baltimore

Grapevine, Texas—-—Brown’s owner Art Modell added to the growing
number of NFL controversies when he announced Monday that he had
signed a thirty-year lease with Baltimore in October and would be moving
the Cleveland team to Maryland. The city of Cleveland reacted angrily to
the news that the team, which has been in debt, would be moving, while
many associated with the Washington Redskins’ franchise expressed
worries that a Baltimore team could cause problems for the Redskins.
Other owners, however, reported no concern over the growing number of
teams which have migrated to other cities. A vote will be held in January
to determine whether or not the proposed move will actually take place.
(Editor's note.‘ Grapevine, TX is Emily Baker ’s hometown and a really
cool place.)

Kennedy children protest
publication of JFK’s diary

New York-——John F. Kennedy, Jr. and Caroline Kennedy are protesting
the upcoming publication of the diary of their father, President John F.
Kennedy. The diary, which was kept by Kennedy in 1945, has been the
property of one of Kennedy’s former Senate aides since he gave it to her
in 1960. Lawyers for the aide say that the Kennedys’ protest, which
apparently is based on alleged copyright violations and not on the content
of the diary, is unfounded.

French President Chirac

dissolves administration

Paris, F rance——French President Jacques Chirac was forced to dissolve
his administration on Tuesday after only a few months in office. The move
was made in order to cut superﬂuous positions and to create a more efficient
governing body. It was an attempt to rid the nation of deficits and meet the
goals for a single-currency Europe in 1999. The dissolution was also in
response to the administration’s extremely low popularity rating among
the French public. After a disappointing and highly controversial first ﬁve
months of his presidency, Chirac garnered approval from only fourteen
percent of polled French voters.

Right-wing groups suspected
in Saturday’s assassination

Israel—Authorities are investigating several right-wing groups for
involvement in Saturday’s assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin. Although Yigal Amir, a 25-year-old student at Bar-llan University,
claims to have acted alone, several right-wing organizations are currently
under investigation for conspiracy. The organizations had publicly lauded
the assassination of the leader of the Israeli-Palestinian peace movement
in past days. Many right-wing leaders have gone into hiding while others,
like Binyamin Netanyahu of the Likud Party, have attempted to absolve
themselves of involvement in the shooting. Also under scrunity are
security officials who allowed Prime Minister Rabin to appear at a peace
rally without a bullet-proof vest.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

GOP WATCH

 

, Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Powell not to seek Presidency

Alexandria, Virginia—Forrner Joint Chief of Staff Colin Powell an-
nounced on Wednesday at a press conference that he will not seek the
Presidency nor any other political office in the 1996 election. Citing
personal and family reasons, Powell stated that he did not have the passion
or commitment at this time to run for office. He did, however, declare
himself to be a new black Republican, and also rebuked the Republican
right for their criticism of his moderate views. Powell did not rule out a
possible run for political office in future years.

Bob Dole endorsed by New

Hampshire Governor Merrill

Manchester, New Hampshire—On Wednesday New Hampshire Gov-
ernor Steven Merrill endorsed Bob Dole for the office of President and was
appointed general chairperson of the Dole campaign. Merrill stated that
Dole is the only candidate that is “capable of continuing the conservative
movement” started by the 1994 elections. Merrill’s endorsement gives a
“major boost to the GOP front-runner in the first primary state.”

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

N

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995

Alum puts W&L
sports on film

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

While many in the Wash-
ington and Lee class of 1995
are still looking for jobs,
23-year-old Keith Grant al-
ready has a book and a
movie deal lined up.

Grant started working
on a documentary on the
history of W&L sports af-
ter he graduated in June.
That led to abook on Walt
Michaels, ’51, retired
coach of the New York Jets.

The alumni office mailed
letters to alums this sum-
mer, notifying them that
Grant was making a docu-
mentary, and suggesting
that those interested in help-
ing should contact Grant.

Michaels was one of
those who did. Michaels
told Grant he was writing
an autobiography and asked
if Grant would be inter-
ested in ghost-writing it.
Grant sent some writing
samples, and waited.

Michaels called last week
and offered him the job.

“I thought he was kid-
ding at first,” Grant said.
“He had this writer from

New York lined up who
had already put in six
months of work on the
book.” Michaels let the
writer go.

Grant said the first step
is to find a publisher. He
is continuing work on the
documentary, and expects
to finish it in the spring.

His years as Sports Di-
rector for WLUR and as a
writer for The Ring-tum Phi
have given Grant an ency-
clopedic knowledge of
W&L sports history.

“I’m a history buff, an
infomaniac,” Grant said.
“And I’ve loved sports all
my life. It’s only natural that
I combined the two.”

Grant wanted to docu-
ment W&L sports because
“there are so many phe-
nomenal stories throughout
its history.

“The first football game
to be played in the South
was between W&L and
VMI in 1873. We started
playing baseball three years
before that,” he said, and
continued rattling off events
from W&L’s sports history.

“W&L has a sports his-
tory that most schools in
America would be en-
vious of.”

Are we almost there yet?

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Students , patiently wait in the N ewcomb Hall registration line.

a

Students working to make a
difference in Latin America ~

projects. On this island, which lacked

Writers’ Harvest combats
hunger in Rockbridge

Photo courtesy of David Foster

Last February break this group of generous and community-
minded students lent their helping hands to Nicaragua.

BY DAVID FOSTER
Phi Contributing Writer

Last February break while many
Washington and Lee students were
lying on the beach in Cancun or in the
Bahamas, ﬁve students were getting
their tans by building sidewalks and
dry latrines in Nicaragua. The students,
through a non-profit organization called
Bridges to Community, traveled to
Rama Cay, a remote island off the
coast of Nicaragua.

Why, you may ask, would anyone
want to spend their mid-winter vaca-
tion sleeping on cement floors, eating
rice and beans, and doing hard manual
labor? The one senior, one junior, and
three freshmen who embarked upon
this unusual journey all went with dif-
ferent expectations.

Some were hoping for an experi-
ence that would open new perspec-
tives. Others were simply intrigued by
the novelty’ of the idea. In the end,
however, all were rewarded with new
friendships formed and a powerful ex-
perience that would never allow them
to look at the world in the same way
again.

For ten days, the students lived and
worked with the native people of Rama
Cay, helping them to complete desper-
ately needed community development

such basic utilities as electricity and
running water, the students helped to
construct dry latrines to help improve
sanitation and health conditions for the
community.

They also helped to construct a “side-
walk” to connect the two sides of the
island which are separated by wate
during the nine month rainy season.
Although the projects themselves were
rewarding, it was getting to know and
living the daily lives of the Nicaraguan
people that most impacted the students.

The moment these students returned
to the comforts of college life in Lex-
ington, they committed themselves to
providing this opportunity to as many
of their classmates as possible.

This year the group is planning an-
other trip during February break, this
time to the village of San Simon, El
Salvador. The trip will consist of an
eight-day stay in San Simon working
on the much needed food to this village
of 4000, the farm will serve as the
center of a literacy and reforestation
project in the region.

An informational meeting for any-
one interested in participating in this
trip will be held on Wednesday, No-
vember 15 at 8 p.m., in the C-School in
room 221. Anyone who is unable to
attend this meeting or has questions
should contact David Foster at 463-
3173 or Jenn Beam at 464-3697.

BY RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

For the third consecutive year the Washington
and Lee and Rockbridge County Writers’ Harvest
was effective in raising money to combat hunger in
27 counties in the Shenandoah Valley area. The
reading is not only a fund raiser for anti—hunger
groups in the region, but also a mouthpiece for the
national anti—hunger organization Share Our
Strength in raising awareness of the hunger problem
in America.

Five readers, including three W&L seniors, per-
formed original material in front of a crowd of about
sixty people in Northen Auditorium on November 1.
The works were unrelated to the theme of the evening
but served to enlighten those who attended.

The first performer was David Olimpio, who read
a chapter from his titleless and unfinished novel on
which he is working for his Honors Thesis.

Olimpio’s reading was followed by six poems
from senior Ainsley Fisher. The poems showed the
parallels Fisher finds “between the natural world and
human experience,” including a few inspired at a
South Carolina beach house.

Following Fisher were Pam Patton, who read a
humorous short story entitled “Lou Ellen on Oprah,”

and David Stillman, who shared his creativity through
six eclectic poems. Stillman’s works ranged from
“The Insomniac Envisions Daybreak” to “Medita-
tion on a Favorite Waitress at Chick’s Raw Bar.”

Lisa Solod concluded the evening with her crowd
pleasing story “The Visit,” which contained a plot
line not far removed from an episode of “Seinfeld” in
its abstract humor to reality. Solod commented on
the caliber of the performances by saying “I thought
everyone was great.”

The event raised more than three hundred dollars,
with roughly $270 collected at the door and the
additional amount coming from donations. “This is
about the amount of money we’ve raised the past two
years,” said Professor Edwin D. Craun, who is instru-
mental in the organization of the Writers’ Harvest at
W&L. Craun also stated that annual donations from
the IFC and Panhellenic will also be helpful re-
sources for the cause.

Every one dollar raised at the event will enable ten
dollars worth of food to be transported to the appro-
priate end by the Blue Ridge Food Bank. The
problem in distributing food to the hungry lies not in
the existence of rations but in the monetary assis-
tance for trucks, drivers, and other necessary tools.
Many food processors donate surplus goods to food
banks and pantries in the area, and the help provided
by the Writers’ Harvest and Share Our Strength
remains integral in ensuring the food does not go
to waste.

Phi ﬁle photo

The Blue Ridge Area Food Bank's ﬂeet of trucks are constantly on the road
picking up and distributing food for the needy in 25 Virginia counties.

W&L to host A
food show ~

From Phi Staff Reports

5
N

Washington and Lee University will be the gath-
ering place for about 150 college food service pro-
fessionals and more than 60 food and equipment
vendors when the university hosts the annual
NACUFS Region II Conference Nov. 12-15.‘
NACUFS is the National Association of College and
University Food Services. The conference chair is
Jerry Darrell, director of dining services at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Representatives will attend from state universi-5
ties as well as small private colleges in Region II
which covers Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Mary-
land, the District of Columbia, New Jersey, and
Virginia. Other schools from outside the region will
also be represented. ‘

Darrell has enlisted two W&L alumni to be gen-
eral session speakers. Parke Rouse Jr. ’37, author of
The Great Philadelphia Wagon Road, will speak
about the region covered in his book, which winds its
way directly through the NACUFS Region II. Halton
Smith ’73, president of Royal Cup, Inc., will speak?’
on “Value Added Service.”

Another W&L alumnus, Shep Rouse ’76, will
present an interest session on “The Evolution of
Wine Making in Virginia.” Other speakers will
include David Schreiber, president of the Cus-.
tomer Relations Group who will speak on
“Customer Service.”

Activities during the four-day conference will
include receptions, tours of the university and neigh-
boring VMI,specia1dinners with studentsin W&L’s
Evans Dining Hall, and educational programs. A‘
variety of training sessions will be offered—from
nutrition to sanitation—from cake decorating to
recycling—all informative topics to those running
large food service operations.

A “Vendor’s Showcase” will be a highlight of the!
conference, to be held from Noon until 3 p.m. on
Tuesday (Nov. 14) in W&L’s Student Pavilion.
More than 60 food and equipment vendors will
display their products in a layout in the model of the
New_York Restaurant Show. ‘

“The NACUFS Conference is usually held at a
large institution,” said Darrell. “Because of the repu-
tation of Washington and Lee and of the W&L
dining service within the organization, the Region II
executive council selected us asthe site of this year’s
conference. Our management team has worked long’
and hard over the past year, and especially in the last
three months, to make this conference a success. We
expect the most highly attended and successful re-
gional conference to date.”

94

 

 

 

‘Q

1

’ .

ﬁre Ring-tum Plzi, November 10, 1995

w&§life

Page 3

 

film society:

ringingtinsel town

TROUBA‘D0Ul9~li? 

THEATRE

)ao-»~--- -- 2: re T nazmzt —- -«~-'~--«--9»

 

Cinctie Young
Plzi Features Editor

Without a ticket booth, without even a popcorn stand, Washington and Lee’s
Film Society manages nevertheless to bring all the magic of Hollywood, and of
so many other cities, to the silver screen of the Troubador Theatre several times
each semester.

The club lists as its objective “provid[ing] educational and cultural entertain-
ment through screenings of critically acclaimed foreign and American works,”
and senior Julie Doring, one of the Society’s two chairmen, assures that such an
objective has been achieved, and with great success.

Doring indeed notes that quite a few showings of the Film Society in the past
several years have attracted “a lot of standing-room only crowds.”

In order to organize such events, as well as to plan future projects, the club
holds meetings twice a semester. ‘

During these meetings, members set dates for those films coming to W&L
over the next few months, ordering them from the half-dozen respective ﬁlm

o lexmgton

distributors active in the “non-theatrical market”.

Since its founding in the late 1970s, the Society has brought to town quite a
few major works, but it took a few years for the club's pace to pick up.

Society Advisor Dick Grefe, Leybum Library’s Senior Reference Librarian,
explains that in its first few years, the Society “only showed one, two or three
movies a year,” due to very limited resources.

Over the next few years, the Society showed films in the Law School, one of
the few places on campus equipped with the facilities to project ﬁlms before an
audience.

Its films now grace the screen of the Troubador Theatre, however, a change
effected during the presidency of John D. Wilson, with whose support the
Theatre’s facilities underwent considerable renovation; the theatre now falls
under the direction of David Howison, Dean of Students. 7

With the talents of Floyd Lynch, formerly a professional projectionist, the
many major and independent movies that the Society now brings to campus arrive
on the Troubador’s screen.

Rather than trying to compete with Lexington’s own State Theatre for the
main movies of the day, the Film Society aims to “get things to Lexington we
think people would be interested in,” chairperson Doring explains, things which
might not come through the lenses of State’s movie projectors.

One such movie whose title has not appeared above the State’s entrance
arrives at campus this weekend; that movie is Smoke.

A surprise hit of this past summer under the direction of Wayne Wang, Smoke
is, according to Film Society’s release, “a garrulous interweaving of stories told
by and about several characters.”

At the center of these stores is a Brooklyn cigar store, where the film’s
characters share wisdom and acts of kindness; while never intending to be
particularly benevolent, the characters _in effect improve each others’ lives.

Smoke is, in the Society release’s words “a gentle, but gritty ﬁlm,” features
an all-star cast including Harvey Keitel, William Hurt, Forrest Whittaker, and
Stockard Channing, and includes ,the,9am.I;o,,appearances of many other greats in
Hollywood today. A

The Film Society has already selected those movies which will be coming to
campus over the next few weeks have just been chosen by the Society ’s members,
including Academy Award winner Burnt By The Sun, and the arthouse movie
Safe. -»

Despite its lengthy e-mail list, the Society invites all students interested in
adding their name and receiving Society updates either to speak with Professor
Grefe, or to write chairperson Julie Doring (jdoring@wlu.edu).

As Grefe stresses, “We’d really be interested in all students who are interested
in us.” '

   
  

. , K .af§9£ Ted 3“11dY§f.'
;  hcffpolice, led by
he Gojeti (Hony Hunterand

  
 
     
  

tliiiig more than; seiyiceable-_thﬁiIer, one with a few
_ at without anysipcrb. ayofggto justify a high-ticket —
haracte{$“are'fairly“ty " ffo” this sort of movie ~ Holly

‘ j ‘ ‘ 1 '_  gto retain her femininity in 
"df'_Der_mot Mulroney is, the
iddliéfagéd woman drools.
 Sigourneyweaver, _
1 " :a and artiﬁcial 
thandothe actors 7
 for'whoe’yer"; 
from ajtlfthe acting‘ is: r
, eaver (which We
y can act. I'm sure a
‘ absixrd Madonna~like
“ leﬂwishing he had."

   

 
 
 
    
   
    
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

d§‘these pans as" Y

. ffiimed;,__here in,

  ’ t30b,_an<3iia I9:  ‘
tiotagoodenougha

, ac:-;»s:i;1 gm  " .'

 

  

   

’ ptotxgkesusfazt 
eating. Dermot?
‘i_nyest_igati0.n‘—

 

    

YO11 SCOIC E1

wtioie term

 
   
 

Watctiing mov-
ies tor Crectitl

+4

   
 

You are #379 on
the waiting iist for
your History course.

  

 
 

Lose 2 turns.

  
 

 
    
    

    
  
  
 
 

  

Traveller‘ S

gtiost to
Registrar!

Gain 5 credits.

  
  

  
  

Washington's statue
smiles at you; the
clouds break apart
and the sun

    
      

reappears! Double
creciits iieiri.

 
    

directignsj Begin at Registrar’s as early before the sunrise as
possible. Players may advance in any direction; first
player to return to the Registrar with 25 credits wins.

  
 

 
    

Acivisor's out of
country!

-3

    
 

 
 

Accosteri by
Traveller's

gtiost; -5.

   
 

 
    
     

011 not Your
foreign language Art contiicts
with
schedule;

lose 1 turn.

 
 

 
 

has a Wi10i€ 118W

aiptiabetl
-5

 
 

   

 
 

   

   

  

  

PAGE 4

@112 filing-tum iﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Giving holiday thanks

The Thanksgiving Holiday is right around
the corner. Most of us will soon be home eating
turkey and dressing with our families. As you
savor those fuzzy Norman Rockwell moments, ‘
take a minute to think of all that Washington
and Lee has to be thankful for this year.

We give thanks for:
*Frank Miriello - a worthy successor

*President John Elrod - for learning to live next
to Graham-Lees

*the Mock Con Gala, a date function nobody
can pronounce.

*the Capital Campaign - we’re all looking
forward to being called after we graduate.
Really.

*J. Crew, for dressing us so well

*tailgating, a W&L tradition preserved, albeit
altered.

*Rush: free alcohol, pledges, and “volunteer
labor.”

*O.J. Alas, it’s over.

*Fox Television - the fights on the gridiron
can’t compare with Allison and Brooke.

*Registration -- for departm§;nt~secretaries‘ who "
know it’s hard on students, too.

The Ring-tum Phi is especially thankful for the
.writers, photographers, and editors that produce
W&L’s oldest campus newspaper each week.
And to the professors that teach us to do so.

Have a happy and restful break.

Quote of the Week

“Nobody pronounces it ‘gayla.’ That’s so
bourgeois.”

—-An elitist student debating the
pronunciation of Friday ’s big bash.

/I

been leC\v\"WI3

///” u
o\ o

43 ‘

.  __,'/ 
i//

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995

II

,_...t

é

‘ff//«nib»

“Im  so -sure oloou\ ilxls ‘spgkm 'l'€Mi’:\o\‘... lAt‘$

l\ovrs.‘\

Liberal Lobbyists and the Taxpayer

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

One of the most intractable policy
questions in the current congressional
negotiations between House and Sen-
ate Republicans has been the so—called
effort to “defund the left,” mounted
primarily by House conservatives. It
has stalled the $23 billion Treasury-
Postal Service appropriations bill in
conference, with neither side ready
to budge.

The actual proposal, sponsored by
Rep. Ernest Istook (R-OK), has gone
through many iterations. Basically, it
proposes to limit the amount of money
spent on lobbying the government by
groups that receive federal govern-
ment funds, although the actual amount
of the limit has been open
to negotiation.

Conservatives, particularly House
GOP freshmen, value this initiative
above most others they could accom-
plish, because its effects are clearly
targeted at some deep liberal pockets.

Recognizing this, GOP leaders now
plan to attach the amendment to the
upcoming bill to keep the government
in operation and raise the nation’s debt
limittemporarily,which mustbepassed
by approximately Nov. 13, to avoid the
first default on government debts
in history.

Angry at the White House’s lack
of negotiation with the Republican

unwilling to vote for a debt limit in-
crease unless they see some conces-
sions from the President, such as agree-
ing to a 7-year timetable to balance the
budget. Because the debt limit bill is
“must-pass” legislation, many Repub-
licans hope to use it to force President
Clinton to accept budget provisions he

mittee a $33 million dollar grant and
then let the NRLC establish a massive
pro—life exhibit at the recent Fourth
World Conference on Women in
China.

Well, that’s exactly what the fed-
eral government did for Planned Par-
enthood, the nation’s largest abortion

doesn’t like, provider and a
suchasthelstook strong lobbying
amendment. -——--—-— C ‘—--—-j group for liberal
Whileitisnot causes at all
a partisan   tax. ICVCIS Of
amendment per government.
se, the Istook payer should be Planned Par-
amendment tar- forced to subsidize enthood is hardly
gets many big- theonlyexample.

name liberal or-
ganizations that

non-governmental
policy groups with

The American
Bar Association

 

use large por-  he or she dis_ received $2.2 mil-
tions of their . . lion in tax dollars
budget to lobby ¢lg7'€€S- Thls vlolates between July
the federal gov- the heart of 1993 and July
Z"‘.‘“§"§. ff America '§ 200 years 3h°.°.‘l;..‘Z‘§.“.3.‘.'.f‘§i§:
spending. ofprotectzonsforfree- sociation of Re-

Indiana Rep- ‘ tired Persons
r e s e n t a t i v e dam of consclence° (AARP) receives
David M. Mcln- millions every
tosh, one of the year from the tax-

73 House GOP freshmen, states the
case for the Istook amendment this
way: “All we are asking is that these
groups make a choice. Be a lobbying
organization or be a grant recipient.
But you can’t be both, and we’re not
going to let you get away with lobby-
ing with taxpayer dollars.”

The Istook amendment aims to pro-
tect the cherished freedom of con-
science of all of America’s taxpayers.
Imagine the furor that would result if
the Republican majority attempted to

payer trough in order to lobby for
nationalized health care and other big
government schemes. And there are
dozens of other examples of liberal
groups funded in various ways.

No American taxpayer should be
forced to subsidize non-governmen-
tal policy groups with which he or she
disagrees. This violates the heart of
America’s 200 years of protections
for freedom of conscience.

Ironically, liberals’ main argument
against the Istook amendment sounds

will destroy the First Amendment’s
rights to free speech and to petition
the government. Baloney. Not only is
this argument absurd on its face—it
completely misses the point.

Every group has the right to lobby
the federal government. The Istook
amendment would in no way restrict
that right. The point is that no group
has the right to use the American
taxpayer’s money for that purpose.
The only reason this bill has any “par-
tisan” character at all is that liberal
interest groups are desperate to pro-
tect their main source of funding: the
bloated federal government.

Furthermore, if a group does not
have the constituency to raise its lob-
bying budget from legitimate private
sources, it obviously hasn’t earned
those funds in the first place. I don’t
want the federal government subsi-
dizing the Christian Coalition any
more than I want it subsidizing
Planned Parenthood. Conservative
interest groups succeed privately be-
cause they have a strong pro-family,
limited government constituency
among the American public. The out-
rage of liberals on this issue immedi-
ately leads one to ask why they can’t
raise money without coercing it
fromthe taxpayer.

The American taxpayer should
not be forced to pay for the life sup-
port of these relics of the discredited
big-government, social-engineering
liberal agenda, especially in a time of
fiscal responsibility. Liberty-minded
Americans everywhere should be
cheering the Republican efforts to re-'
strict lobbying by groups who receive

flirt ‘ﬁlling-mm lﬂht

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor Sm" Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Rnhnt Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@w1u. edu

majority, House conservatives are also

give the National Right to Life Com-

the frequent and alarmist bell that it

federal funds. Quite simply, it’s what
our principles demand of us. -

General Powell throws away presidencyi

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

General Colin Powell will not be the President of
the United States anytime soon. The news just came
in Wednesday: he will not be seeking the presidency
in 1996, though he may be back in four years, and
vows to remain active in Republican politics.
Whatever.

I think that betrayal is certainly too harsh a word
for what General Powell has done, but I do feel that
he has let down our country by refusing, at this
historic, crucial moment, to run for an office for
which he is uniquely qualified. Were General Powell
to have run, he could have been a president who
brought back a measure of respect to the office, and
also a certain nonpartisan character that would allow
him to be a Republican and still stand up to the more
ridiculous excesses of the Republican revolution.
That is what is needed right now. ’

Indeed, the Republicans seem to be in the busi-
ness of professionally letting down the country lately.
Bill Bennett, William Weld, Lynn Martin, Dick
Cheney and Jack Kemp are all distinctive, dynamic
leaders who could have literally swept into office in
the way that has been predicted for the Republican
nomineee in this unparalleled election cycle, with a
party full of promise and an incumbent so lacking in
luster. (Newt Gingrich is the only significant leader
who so far has not let down the country with an
announcement about his presidential intentions.)

There are few prospects remaining in the Repub-
lican field who might be able to perform the function
General Powell could have, or that any of these
leaders could have. Bob Dole is a weak-kneed wafﬂer
who is even more for sale ideologically than Presi-

dent Clinton. Phil Gramm is evil. Lamar Alexander
is a cipher. Arlen Specter is a loser.

The only half-realistic contenders who can be
credible against Clinton are Sen. Richard Lugar of
Indiana and Malcolm S. “Steve” Forbes, Jr., and they
can barely get press coverage from a horse race-

(6

I think that betrayal is
certainly too harsh a word
for what General Powell has
done, but I do feel that he has
let down our country by re-
ﬁising, at this historic, cru-
cial moment, to run for an
office for which he is
uniquely qualiﬁed.

   

 

obsessed, largely absentee press corps. None of them
have the same understated yet overwhelming blend
of charisma and integrity that distinguished
General Powell.

Why did General Powell choose not to run? It
certainly was not because he could not have been
elected. Indeed, he outdistanced all comers in every
poll commissioned since people remembered they
had to elect a president next year.

He showed an almost shocking popularity, even

among those who disagreed fundamentally with
many of his stands, that, even though that kind of
thing can hardly last, he would almost certainly
have been elected whether he ran as a Republican or
an independent candidate. And he would have
deserved it. People are really sick of being prom-
ised the sky and getting nothing from politicians.
General Powell would have promised integrity and
delivered.

Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin’s assassi-
nation at the hands of his own countryman certainly
may have been a contributing factor to General
Powell’s decision. His wife had repeatedly ex-
pressed doubts about wanting to have her husband
thrust into public political life so soon after his
retirement, and the Rabin tragedy could hardly
have helped to convince her that it might be worth
it despite the risks. General Powell has seen com-
bat, and was perhaps ready to be done with it.

But I don’t think this was the deciding factor. In
the ﬁnal analysis, it is just very difficult to run for
president and to be president. (You might not think
it from looking at some of the Republican candi-
dates. Pat Buchanan, Bob Dornan and Alan Keyes
are all running, after all. Then again, they have the
advantage of not having to actually think about
what might happen if they were to be elected.)

Constant press and political attacks, violent ex-
tremists, the constant scrutiny of public life—these
are things that General Powell had every reason to
expect he had left behind when he retired as Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And he certainly
has the right to do what he feels is best for his own
life at this time. Unfortunately for us, it may not be
the best thing for our country.

Anyway, no matter who is elected president in
1996, I can still take comfort in the fact that I still
work for the W&L weekly that doesn’t hate women.

I

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10. 1995

OPINION

You might be a townie if. . .

DREAM LAND

Stop-In or vice versa

You might be a townie if you own

You might be a townie if you aspire to those six CDs.

they might be towed because your dad
runs Lexington Towing. “
You might be a townie if when some-

PAGE 5

colorful term is not a derogatory one—it’s

, attend Sem after high school. You might be a townie if you try to

Rlchard WC3VCT You might be collect a toll from

a townie if you W&L students

Occasionally,ifyoureadaloud,you’ve have a Hollins T- who drive by to

heard me use the word “townie.” This

adescriptive one, and it doesn’t apply to all

Lexington residents. ies.

 

cc————

Living in Lexington

townie if you won-

one yells, “Hey, look at that townie!” you
turn around and wave.
You might be a townie if your

shirt you wear in look at the junked daughter’s name is “Letitia.”
order to get into cars in your yard. You might be a townie if you can,
W&L fraternity You might be a withastraightface, rent studentsahouse

that does not have central heat, insula-

Livinlg in Ijiqiéington has itsgeffecé Youmigfht be has its effect an der why students a workipg bathroom, or a roof for

on peop e in l erent ways. ven I a townie i ou ° " -‘ wasteammunition amont .

you’re a student and you’ve only been adamantly prifer people In dlﬁienent shooting at clay You might be a townie if you live in

here for a year you can qualify for the 11 Palazzo pizza ways. Even ifyou re a targets. the country and are proud you don’t

title of “townie,” if you work at it. over Frank’s or student and you Ive You might be a have cable TV. ' . _
But how do you know if you re a vice versa. townie If you get You might be a townie if you enjoy

townie? I’ve devised a set of criteria, with You might be only been here for a mad when the stu- the cheap concerts over at the real nice

inspiration from Jeff Foxworthy—it’s a townie if you year you can  dents buy all the W&L Pavilion.

called “You Might Be a Townie If. . .” ow n a Jeep fo r t h e ti t l e of cheap beer, forc- If your answer to ﬁve of these crite-
You might be a townie if you think Cherokee or ing you to drink ria is “yes,” then you’re probably a

Fancy Dress is something that comes with
white fringe and a matching cowboy hat.

You might be a townie if you’ve put a
gunrack in your BMW.

You might be a townie if you call Stop-
In and ask them to throw a few extra hot
dogs on the rolling grill-you’ll be down in
a minute.

You might be a townie if you prefer the
Lexington Stop-In over the Buena Vista

Ford Explorer
that does not
have a Phish
sticker on the
back window.

You might be
a townie if you enjoy listening to Schoolclass ring also worksasa handy
WREL-FM late at night and you don’t
notice all the music is from six CDs set
on random play.

“townie, ” if you work
at it.

 

bottle opener.

malt liquor in-
stead.

You mightbea
townie if your
R o c k b r i d g e
County

You might be a townie if you park
your car in W&L lots and have no fear

W&L senior who needs to graduate soon
and move on. If you said “yes” to more
than ten, you are a fIIll-ﬂedged townie.
You can now get a 10% discount at all
participating Stop-Ins.

I guess I would probably classify my-
self as a townie, that’s if Lexington will
adopt measits own. Iprobably needtobuy
a truck ﬁrst, though.

High

Social Security: no pain,no gain

MY VIEW
Jennifer Galardi, ’96

EDITOR ’S NOTE: This is the third of three
articles on the state of Social Security.

If you read the previous editorials concerning
Social Security and generational conflict, you are no
stranger to my position on these topics. But in case
you missed the point, I emphatically advise policy
changes in this entitlement program will lay entirely
on the shoulders of our generation. In this ﬁnal
editorial, I would like to present to you some sugges-
tions for reform. I would also like to emphasize that
these proposals are just that—proposals. You do not
have to buy into them wholeheartedly, or at all for
that matter. But I would hope that you will consider
them as possibilities for assuring a brighter eco-
nomic future for this country.

As one of the largest and most comprehensive
proposals to help reduce spending for Social Secu-
rity as well as other entitlement programs, means
testing was introduced by Peter Peterson, former
United States Secretary of Commerce, in his 1993
book, Facing Up.‘ How to Rescue the Economy from
Crushing Debt and Restore the American Dream.
Under his proposal, Social Security beneﬁts would
be subject to a sliding-scale, across the board income
test beginning at a family income level of $40,000.
Payments to the 42% of Americans who earn more
than that would be gradually scaled back in propor-
tion to their incomes. Those families with incomes
less than $40,000 would continue to receive full
benefits. Furthermore, those adjustments would be
phased in over six years, beginning January, 1997
with the entire policy in place by 2002. I know many
may view this as an unjust reduction in beneﬁts for
those who have worked hard for their money, but as
a result of reduced payments, income taxes would be
lowered for all.

While constructing new Social Security policies,
ofﬁcials should take into consideration the realities
of longer life spans and the increased ability of
individuals to remain a productive part of the work
force for a longer portion of their lives. Doing so
would logically result in a higher eligibility age for
full Social Security benefits. One option presented
in the Kerry-Simpson Proposal for entitlement re-
form (1995) is, again, gradual, and would increase
the currently scheduled normal retirement age (NRA)
from 65 to 67 and to age 70 for those currently under
age 29. No one currently over age 51 would be
affected, allowing workers sufficient time to plan for
this change.

Another strongly supported proposal is a move
towards more personal investment. As another part
of the Kerry-Simpson proposal, personal investment
programs would provide incentives for taxpayers to
diver 2 percentage points of their OASDI trust fund
payroll taxes to their own personal investment plan
(PIP). This provision would allow participants to
earn higher rates of return on a portion of their Social
Security payroll tax contributions, shift funds from
federal securities to productive investment in the
economy, introduce more ﬂexibility for retirement
decisions, and increase personal and national sav-
ings. Under this plan, Social Security would be
designed to supplement private savings, not replace

‘ them, and the original “safety net” intent of the

programs would be restored.

Another option to help reduce the ever increasing
costs of Social Security is to limit cost of living
adjustments (COLA’s). Currently, monthly pay-
ments distributed to beneficiaries are automatically
increased annually for changes in the cost of living
as measure by the Consumer Price Index (CPI).
Under this proposal, COLA’s would be limited for
those who receive benefits above the 30th percen-
tile of all benefits paid. Those below the 30th
percentile would receive the full COLA under the
current law.

Of course, no reduction program would be com-

plete without a moderate increase in taxes. Although
no one likes to hear it, in order to cut spending and
reduce the deﬁcit as a whole, all generations need to
pay a little more today or our generation will pay a lot
more tomorrow. Although income taxes could be
reduced with the means testing proposal suggested
earlier, the government could always raise taxes in
other areas. Some options include a higher gasoline
tax and a raise in alcohol and tobacco tax.

Unfortunately, there are no silver bullet solu-
tions to correct the impending problems of the
system. However, as mentioned before it hardly
seems fair to inflict all the “pain” associated with
fixing Social Security on one group, namely our
generation. If everyone sacrifices a little now, we
can avoid generational warfare while restoring sol-
vency and success to one of America’s most impor-
tant federal social programs.

Undeniably, any proposals for change will not
prove easy politically, as we recently have wit-
nessed with the debate over Medicare reform. Al-
though all the evidence pcints to the necessity for
Social Security policy reform, the current Social
Security program has backing from one of the
largest lobbying groups in history: the AARP.
Again, I would urge all members of our generation
to organize and take action to help politicians stand
up to such strong forces to secure our right to an
economically ‘sound and prosperous future.

I would like to acknowledge the following pub-
lications for the information in these editorials:
The Bipartisan Comission’s Report on Entitlement
and Tax Reform, August 1994. (Senator J. Robert
Kerrey, Chairman and Senator John C. Danforth,
Vice Chairman.) The Kerrey-Simpson Proposal,
1995 Senator J. Robert Kerrey and Senator Alan
Simpson. Get Real About D’s & E’s, Neil Howe
and Bill Strauss, The Concord Coalition. Testi-
mony of Mark A. Weinberger before the U.S.
Senate Finance Committee’s Subcommittee on So-
cial Security and Family Policy, June 27, 1995.

College Libertarians

Saturday, Nov. 11, Jacob
Homberger, president of the Future
of Freedom Foundation, will be
speaking on “Halting the Destruc-
tion of American Liberty” in Northen
Auditorium. The talk will take place
at 2 p.m. and is sponsored by the
College Libertarians.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the surprise hit
of this past summer, Smoke (USA,
1995), directed by Wayne Wang, in
English. Screenings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Nov. 10 and Satur-
day, Nov. 11 in the Troubadour The-
ater, at the comer of Main and Henry
Streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission. Smoke features an all-
star cast including Harvey Keitel,
William Hurt, Forrest Whitaker, and
Stockard Channing.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by poet Brendan
Galvin, author of Great Blue and
Saints in Their Ox-hideBoats, Thurs-
day, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m., and novelist
and poet Lynne Sharon Schwartz,
author of Rough Strife and The Fa-
tigue Artist, Wednesday, Dec. 6 at
4:30 p.m. All readings will take place
in Northen Auditorium.

Goldwater Scholarships

If you are a sophomore or junior
with a B average or in the upper
fourth of your class who plans a ca-
reer in the mathematics, science, en-
gineering, or medical research fields,
you may qualify for a Goldwater
scholarship ($7,000 annually). Con-
tact Dean West-Settle (X8746) be-
fore Nov. 28.

On Friday, Nov. 10, Habitat for
Humanity will be hosting a beneﬁt
square and contra dance. The dance
will begin at 8 p.m. at Southern Vir-
ginia College’s Chandler Hall in
Buena Vista. Becky McKenzie will
call to the music of Wildgrass. No
experience or partner necessary. Ad-
mission is $5 per person. Child care
will be provided for a small donation.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Internship

Interested in an extemship/intern-
ship opportunity with Smith Barney
in New York? Attend the information
session on Thursday, Nov. 9 at 7:30
p.m. in Room 221 of the C-School.

Support Groups

A confidential support group is
meeting weekly for W&L women
who have experienced sexual assault/
abuse at any time in their lives. This
group has been meeting weekly for
eight years with the membership al-
ways open to new members. Each
member signs an agreement of conﬁ-
dentiality at the first meeting. Please
call Carol Calkins, the Counseling
Center secretary, at x8590 or the
University Health Service at x8401
to learn of times and locations.

Asupport group is meeting weekly
forwomenwhc aredealingwithbinge
eating, binge/purge eating or very
restricted eating. If you are facing
any of these in your daily life, you are
invited to join this conﬁdential group
which meets weekly. Each member
will sign an agreement of conﬁdenti-
ality at first meeting. Please call Carol
Calkins, the Counseling Center sec-
retary, at X8590 or the University
Health Service at x8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Career Development

There will be a Career Test Interpre-
tation Session on Monday, Nov 13 at
4 p.m. in the Conference Room of the
Mattingly House. Call Ms. Saunders
if you have taken the Career Tests
and not yet had the results interpreted.

The FBI will be presenting an Infor-
mation Session cn Tues, Nov. 14 at 4
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. All students are invited to
attend.

V Atten_tio_rI Seniors: SLAC interviews

Habitat'Si1u'tifé’Daﬁct‘?‘ ' Wiltbé posted an’ 'ru*es,‘Nov 21.

I Flu Shots

Flu season is fast approaching. The
Student Health Center is offering ﬂu
shots for $5.00, a small price to avoid
spending your good time as a patient
in the inﬁrrnary.

MY VIEW
Karly Jennings, ’96

As I sit at my keyboard, I ﬁnd it
ironic that I am writing a piece for a
newspaper, since I don’t like to see my
name in print or go “on record” about

‘ anything(astheeditorsandreportersofthe
« Phi can certainly attest). Yet, I thought I

had something important enough to say to
the W&L community, especially my fel-
low students.

Recently the administration has been .

criticized for usurping student au-
tonomy and trying to ruin the char-
acter and spirit of W&L. Whether
football tailgating, winter rush, or
sophomore housing, students complain
often and loudly that they weren’t asked
or even considered in this planning.

NOVEMBER
NOW
OR NEVER
SALE!

BUY CHRISTMAS
BEFORE WE

Well, twelve years ago, students were
saying the same things about co-edu-
cation; and before that, about spring
term and racial integration. These
changes took place because qualiﬁed
staff saw things which they felt needed
to be addressed. Even with football
tailgating, the administration had the
best interests of the students in mind.

Some closed minded individuals
might say that the students know what
is best for other students, and that they
aren’tchildren and shouldn’t be treated
as such. Yet, they sit back and whine
and complain about the evils that the
Hill is inﬂicting upon them and their
traditions. To these individuals I say:

get involved on campus.

Students have a voice on campus
whether through the newspaper by
writing a letter to the editor, joining an
existing organization, starting a new
one, or being appointed to a university
committee. Now, I have done all four
of these things at least once in my time
here, and they have all been worthwhile. It
is not difficult to get involved here, there
areorganizations that need peoplewhoare
willing to spend their time and energy
for them.

Likewise, through my involvement in
these organization, I know many of the
members of the administiationon a ﬁrst
name basis. They are not “incompetent,

   

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items
Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

.7/ia7/

umowana sronss "

aéte

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.

unprofessional, hate mongers,” but rather
highly intelligent, trained, and compas-
sionate individuals who have a great
deal of experience in higher education.
They are more than willing to talk with
and listen to students. We are lucky to
go to a school where administrators
take the time out to meet with andwork
with us.

I am sure some of you might feel that I
have been brainwashed by the administra-
tion, but that is most certainly not the case.

BUTLER

INSTITTE FOR STUDY

UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN

Many of my dealings with the adIninistia-
tion have been because of changes that I
felt werenecessary foranirnproved W&L
I encourage each and every student
here to become more involved Instead of
simply bitching and complaining about
the Hill and the changes that they impose,
we students should work with the admin-
istiation to propose solutions. This should
not be an “IIs versus them” situation, but
rather the W&L community working to-
gether for the bettennent of the school.

    

ABROAD

UNIVERSITY

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

SAY BYE‘-BYE.

Caravans is closing its doors
and moving everything
to the Virginia Beach store.

EVERYTI-IlNG’S
ON SALE!

Until we close November 25,

‘ y03l can save on
greatfall clothing, holiday dresses,
sweaters, jewelry, home ﬁirnishings

and special Christmas gifts.

NOV. 1-7 15% OFF
NOV. 8-15 20% OFF
NOV. 16-25 25% OFF

caravans

117 W Nelson Street 9 464.3500

Daily 10 am - 6pm 0 Sundays 11am -5 ‘pm

  

 
/

O.Pp(1q&QO'

Ladies ’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccess0ries

\\

 
     
   
   
       

Welcome Back Students

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

(703)463-5988

  
   

\\

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAN D

Fully integrated study at British, Irish,
New Zealand and Australian universities

FALL oR SPRING SEMESTER - FULL YEAR
INSTEP - SUMMER PROGRAM - INTERNSHIPS

Stud Abroad Information Session
Representative: Tom Roberts
Date:
Location:

 

Monday , November 13

4:30 - 5:30 Fairfax lounge
University Center

For Pfiurtlherginformation please contact: Your Study Abroad Office on campus
or  e nstirtitc for Study Abroad. Butler University. 4600 Sunset Avenue.
l“dl3"aP“]|5» IN 46208. Tel: 317/940-9336 or 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940.9704

 

PAGE 6

S

1996 mock convention

11 Washington St, Lexington

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995
t

-‘ (_)  9

best wishes for a great

Welcome Stu-

rffi  ..

464 5000

er.
ll

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center

Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

 

Ten I-2. Nelson

540.463.9834 1

Florist to the
Mock Convention . s

     

Florist To The Homestead

Lexington. Virginia 24450

ST/llliCllS
er.

   
 

  
  

  

 

 

 

   

 

EM 55; : \\\‘a: l ..i'_,// \\\.‘ :: :
»»»»» ~- «- ' “ 1. . .  I I I
L“\/‘J ;  Don ’t Let --~ ;: _ :
 Your Student :: a r :
a downstairs llathskeller : G0 Hun E : . E
16 Lee Ave. : H b ,1) _ tc d ::A Bistro :
: at S 0111 at :: 8 am — 3 pm - Monday I
(across from Chi PS” : T116  M631 TlCkCt ::8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
10% food discount to all I Redeemable fer 3: 8 am '9“ "”“3‘ Fri“:-" 'dSa“”day 3
' Breakfast Lunch Dinner ' ' 3"‘ ' Pm ' ““ “Y- '
Q I 3 9 I I :
W&L students everyday. : For only $90.00 ._.: _
" :: Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad :
0 Full menu served  Nutritious Muﬂins & Egg Specialties II A11 Y011 can 63‘ $4-99 I
0 Black Angus steaks : Fresh -Salads & S0-"PS :: I :
. Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees : : Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID :
0 Salads, Sandwiches, 5 Candlelight Diners :: F ‘d S f d N. :
A etizers I . II n ay ' ea 00 ﬁe 7 I
pp : Give Your Student -_-: Saturda _  l’;re§I*:’;Si:‘i’l:mP’ T‘°“‘ :
; a Homecooked Meal W1th Our :: y 2 Végs salad $95 :
Take 0uts 464-3157 ; Point Card ' ' :
Nightly dinner specials I H a  S ’ E
Lunch Specials Daily : :
: . . . .1.9.V."-. ‘.’V.i‘;°>‘.‘i."i%£".“.§‘:.E‘i"3’:%‘9‘3’.Y’}.%‘l‘l5P. . . : : . . 22  . 9§*iiI.1%t.°9.§t-. .L.e§inat92~. .1’: 2.4.4.59. . . . :
open at 11 a.m. daily , ***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***
Dinner served 4:30 p.m_ ‘tn 3??  Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
' 9 ' V ' l
Reeerveeiens reeemmeeeee A"'i§a'§§mZ: iifzﬁﬁllioi i=i§rl‘a§z° 31{’Z'£' iicifii °r'iyr<E15X 11§i2i3I::Ig§¥iJgi§N$1i91§fV%a$ M’ We Rina-tum W
_ (800) 95-BREAK!
.  ._ .  ,. .. 1  93
mg; ‘am; we VA aierard Crii ﬁareae years
. old
and
we
still
come
once
a
week
**except the week
before Thanksgiving!

Washington and Lee winter sports teams
entertain high hopes for upcoming season

PREVIEW, from page 8

pounds, and Rob dc Clerk, wrestling at 142 pounds.
Franke hopes to improve on last season’s disappointing
dual meet record and would like to see more individuals
placing in this season’s tournaments. The team is particu-
larly looking toward the December 1st and 2nd Lebanon

‘A Valley Tournament.

“Lebanon Valley at the beginning of the season has

«A always been a good barometer of how the team will do

because youngsters that have placed in that usually have
good seasons. If we don’t get a lot of places in that
tournament, then it ends up to be a season where we just have
to concentrate on developing a little bit more,” Franke said.

The team is also focused on what should be the season’s
highlight, the January 20th Washington and Lee Wrestling
Invitational, with eight schools competing.

Franke is looking for a solid mixture of youth, including
freshman standout Ryan Walker, who is wrestling at 126
pounds, and returning veterans to take the team through a
successful season.

Men’s Swimming:

The mcn’s swimming team under head coach Page
Remillard and assistant coach Chris Budvitis will return
eight swimmers from last year’s nationally ranked team.
The fourteen member roster includes All-Americans Craig
Sears, Frank Braden, Nathan Hottle, and this season’s
captain, David Stillman. The four were key members of last
year’s team which ﬁnished eleventh at the 1995 NCAA

 

Division Ill Swimming Championships.

In the preseason, W&L has been ranked tenth in Division
III by College Sports Magazine. Braden earned his All-
American honors in the 200 and 500-yard freestyle and
broke the 18-year-old W&L record in the 500. Stillman was
awarded All-American honors for his 50-yard free perfor-
mance, in which he placed eighth in the nation and annihi-
lated the existing W&L record. Hottle won a national
championshipin the 200- yard breaststroke and was awarded
All-American honors in the 200 IM and 100 breaststroke.
Braden, Stillman, Hottle, and Sears were also key members
of the 400 and 800-yard free relay teams which received
national recognition.

Remillard believes that the team’s main focus this season
is winning the championship. He said, “All of our training
and dual meet decisions will be inﬂuenced by that primary
goal of winning.” Remmilard also stated that the biggest
challenge facing the team is not any of their opponents, but
rather from the individuals themselves. “They need to
decide what they want to accomplish. They know what the
deﬁnition of commitment is,” Remillard said.

Men’s Basketball:

The men’s basketball team is under new leadership this
season. Head coach Kevin Moore comes to Washington and
Lee from Elmira College in New York. Moore, with the
help of assistant coach Jerry Jusianiec, has drastically changed
the heavily defense-centered style of play that the Generals
came to expect under now-retired Coach Verne Canﬁeld.

“lt’s an up-tempo style based on ninety four feet of
pressure for forty minutes,” stated Moore.

Moore hopes to run a fast paced game, giving a signiﬁ-
cant number of his ﬁfteen athletes substantial playing time.
Moore is, however, concerned that the team may lack the
depth needed to play this style.

The Generals will be led this year by senior tri-captains
Cam Dyer, Jon Coffman, and Derek Carter. Dyer, adjusting
to his new position at center, has played well in the pre-
season,. Coffman, along with junior standout Chris Couzcn,
have turned in solid performances at guard, responding well
to the increased pressure of Moore’s quick playing style.
Carter has been limited during preseason conditioning while
recovering from knee surgery, but is expected to play well
at the forward position.

Also recovering from surgery is freshman guard Zeb
Mellett. Mellett had shoulder surgery earlier in the summer
and once healthy, is expected to backup Coffman and
Couzcn at the guard position. Another freshman guard that
has impressed the coaches in the preseason is Brian Jamison.
Moore hopes that Jamison will be able to make a signiﬁcant
impact this season.

The Generals got to test their skills against the VMI
Keydets Junior Varsity on Tuesday. Moore was happy with
his team’s performance. He did however note that the
players needed to put more pressure on the boards.

Moore has some very speciﬁc goals in mind for his team.
He would like the Generals to win at least ﬁfteen of their
games and enter the ODAC tournament seeded in the top
five. In order to achieve this, Moore believes his players
need to concentrate on staying healthy and demonstrating
the winning attitude he knows they all possess.

  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995 A   PAGE 7

THEB£:s'rHoLIDAYME:Ar_,g mi-ILETES of THE WEEK
‘ S'']''J\RTWITHUS!

\

      
 
       
  
 

i ‘ I :i
l in.

lillllll

llllllll

‘ll

Harris Teeter

l Cheryl Taurassi Jason Callen
Volleyball Men's Cross Country
The all-time W&L volleyball assists leader ﬁn- The sophomore gained the distinction of ODAC
ished her career in superb form this weekend. Runner of the Year after his performance in the

   

 
    
    
  

 
  
    
 
 
    

V

II '~‘t‘irt=sr«<:§* at l

 
      

    

-1 J \' 1 ‘ ~- =
ill ll .rn2r=liillr:.rE.
#1 TE

\ ~s.\ 3-‘ .\\\ \\. I-hid mm in
' '4 't,. ' ‘ Ill» ‘“ .

    

      
 

Llll null

   

     

Taurassi racked up 96 assists in helping the team ODAC Championships this past Saturday.

  
 

to its first ODAC crown. The senior posted a W&L Callen finished first in a time of 25132, which
" record 50 assists in the semifinal game against Was 13 Seconds better than the next finisher, in
, Guilford in being named ODAC tournament MVP. helping W&L to the ODAC Championship.

' y ' liillllrilllll

l liil

  

ill to
lllllill lil .
1/2 gal.

Selected Varieties Harris Teeter Real  g1  a  e

‘i De.’ Monte  09 Choqolate 8W to compete to keep the Browns. ‘Just this Tuesday, Cleve-
P'"e3PPle_.15-25 Cli'PS___v2oz. MY VIEW £§!;.‘i.“.2E,"ii‘i‘:l’J§é°{’,8“..ii’fl§,‘lf‘:’;‘..?%f.fi§£,“,L‘:"2;l:‘$§’;.:§

Joshua Hgslinga, ’98 Stadium renovations. But Modell said that it doesn’t make
a difference when commenting about a possible return to

   

ti Cleveland: “The bridge is down, burned, disappeared.
This week saw the sad announcement that the Cleveland 'l‘here’s not even a canoe for me)’
Browns Would be moving to Baltimore, effeetiVe next year, Ultimately, despite threatened legal action by Cleveland
Putting another black mark in today’s ledger of Professional and the possibility that owners could try to block Modell’s
Sports’ low moments move, the Browns are gone. Earlier this year, owners
4 CleVeland owner Art Modell Couldn’t resist the inbred‘ backed down and let the L.A. Rams move to St. Louis after
‘- l ible deal that Baltimore had offered the Browns to relocate. Rams’ owner Georgia Frontiere threatened to sue the NFL,
y A publicly-funded $200 million stadium will be constructed Thus, the ﬁght over the Browns is probably meaningless.
next t0 Camden Yards, and thﬂ BFOWHS  gﬂt all l'CCClptS The issue is really what sports stands for and what Sports
from oonoossions and Parking’ The Browns Will get a 30‘ teams owe to their homes and fans. Denver Broncos
‘ year rent-free lease, and Baltimore will guarantee them ten president Pat Bowlen stated earlier this week, “Teams have
Years of Solloilts Modell Pockets a $50 million relocation a moral responsibility to their fans. Only as a last resort
fee, plus revenues from personal seat licenses to pay for should they move”
relocation ltS6lf, and the O0l']Stl'UCtl0[1 Of 3 practice facility. The NFL has seen foul‘ other moves in recent years (the
N0w,beforelgo an)’ further, i should Point out thatl’m Colts to Indianapolis, the Raiders back to Oakland, the
a proud conservative and a capitalist. Businessmen should Cardinals to Arizona, and the Rams to st_ Louis) and more
‘r, be free to build a better mousetrap (or relocate their old one), are apparently coming, The Cincinnati Bengals are report-
soto speak. Nonetheless, I can’t help feeling that something edly considering a move to Cleveland if their locality
is wrong here. doesn’t pass a tax increase for more funding. The Houston
To turn professional Sports into_a purely business arr Oilers are seriously weighing a move to Nashville (which
y rangornont would be as Wrong as it would be to_tlirn a nearly lured the New Jersey Devils after their Stanley Cup
 , fraternity into a business Yes, both inVolVo legitimate victory). Both the Seattle Seahawks and the Cardinals are
‘ " ﬁnancial concerns that must be dealt with, but both also rumored to be thinking about Los Angeles, and the Tampa
involve loyalty, trust, and other intangibles. Professional Bay Buccaneers are scouting stadium sites in orlando_
S t sports today has lost the “rfnagio” by focusing so much on Buffalo Bills owner Ralph Wilson, himself in a small
Wee business that it ignores its ans- market, stated: “This is wron . The credibility of our league
. Juicy 4! ¢  Eastern or  The NFL has four Criteria for owners Wanting to rnoVe has taken abeating in the lastgyear. Fans used to believe that
it . 7 , their teams: the adequacy of the tcam’s facilities, loss of our league stood for stability, Now it’s all crazy)’
 ea As community support. losses in ﬁnancial records, and good- I have been a die-hard Browns fan (and a lot ofdying they
— ' __.__..3 ‘'3' bag faith negotiations. Modell argued that he was losing mil- have done) for going on ten years now_ one of my desires
' lions in Ohio, and that the Browns’ somewhat dilaPidateri in life has been to make the trip to Cleveland to see a real
  Cleveland Stadium was no longer adequate forthe franchise. football game, To throw myself into the rush of a Browns
, Yet, the Browns were aVoraging 70,000 fans Per game, game, played in bitter winter cold onagrass field. To absorb
and were dominating ratings in their area, which hardly the enthusiasm ofcrazed fans in the legendary Dawg Pound.
seems like a serious loss of support to me. If the proximity My dream is not going to be denied_ I bought tickets for
of Cincinnati or Pittsburgh is a problem, does Modell think the December 17 game against Cincinnati the day before the
that things will greatly improve once the Redskins complete move was announced, because it’s my last chance to be part
their ProPoS°‘l moVe to Prince Georges Count)’, between of that ambiance. The atmosphere that surrounds a true
V‘ DC» and Baltimore? , sports game, whether it’s the historic aura of a Fenway Park
The greater Problem is that Modell failed to engage in any or Boston Garden, or the excitement of a Camden Yards, is
good-faith negotiations with the city of Cleveland. He broke truly something special,
9 his lease with the city, which runs until 1998. He put a one- so many things in America have lost their meaning as
~ year moratorium on talk of renovating Cleveland Stadium, they have been corrupted by the taint of business that
v Yet he broke that ban bY brokering a deal With Mar)’land- cynicism reigns, and the intangibles like responsibility and
Cleveland mayor Michael White expressed justifiable an- loyalty are certainly endangered species. It’s time for
ger, saying: “Like a thief in the night. our NFL franchise has everyone to take some time to ponder meanings deeper than
been Stolen-” profit margins and personal gratiﬁcation, lest we find those
Furthermore, Modell refused to give Cleveland any chance all we have left_
1
©©..>:;€t:5 “’ as K3 irCc:.ii—,ll @l7~it
. ﬂ ass I
-u 3 “Their sound is more  x57 _   ;. A   0’
‘_  groove-jazz than anything  9 . ‘ 0 _
. 2 else. Think hip, think focused. T T
1 You can even think rock iiyou
. .1
1 i an
5
,.
i
!
: The {Inc rd Exclumg _ Roiersh
,1 '  and Chapel Hill
or mad? er<xe\<‘—€*(vat:
K

   

 

1 %u  ill 6Pk.200z.NRB

Harris Teeter Coke Or Diet  sum BREAK -  on cam and

StudentTravelServicesis now hiring Jamaica from 29900, ,Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and

I t t' . Lo t t .
O,-an e Ihuce cake .°f,"’.i’,i}‘.,i,’if,§’,’,°Sc‘:’,‘..‘..‘é.'.¥.‘f'Snay¥Z,°.f,‘iii  o.g...,.........iig..,..,.....i....,..i:nEn trip
PanamaCity Beach. Call1—800-648- Plus Comissionsl Cal] 1_8()0_822_0321

4849

 
     

 

H d _ ooooooooooooooooooo0 000000000
illl',%'ia ° 79¢ fiiitlllfé reg,,°r 99 1/,4z7z5;2&z>oz5

, Franks__is.,.. Toothpaste _4.s oz. 1 ' ' ' an 7t«,<e«'aée«
Philadelphia Harris Teeter 7mm,-awe amt Séewtee

ghae"ese_s 99¢   199
Prices Effective Through November 14.1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, November 8 Through November 14, 1995 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores
Only. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

/9 S. Pcwolaéﬁé St.
463-2742

 

 

 

K Last Week:

Vou.r-zraau. - W, 15-5, 15-6, 15-7, vs. Emory & Henry;

W, 7-15, 15-12, 15-12, 16-18, 15-12 vs. Guilford;

W, 15-4, 15-13, 15-8, vs. Roanoke in ODAC tournament
MCnuss Courrrmr - Finished ﬁrst in ODAC Championships
WCROSS COUNTRY - Finished second in ODAC Championships

F00fl‘BA1.L- W, 13-9, vs. Guilford

\
PAGE 8

Ellis ﬁling-mm iﬂhi

SPORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

I This Week:

F00l'BAU.- Saturday vs. Swarthmore, 1:30 PM

MCnoss Courrrmr - Saturday at NCAA Division III
Regionals, 12 Noon (Memphis, TN)

Wckoss Coummr - Saturday at NCAA Division III
Regionals, 11:00 AM (Memphis, TN)

NOVEMBER 10, 1995

 

Volleyball captures first—ever ODAC title

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team has been the team to
beat in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference all season. Now
they can ﬁnally call themselves
the champions.

The top-seeded Generals
came into the tournament with
the best regular season record
(26-6), including an undefeated
mark at home. They were also
hungry for the title, having lost a
close match in the ﬁnals last year.

This year, with a solid core of
key players returning, as well as
a promising freshman class, the
team had high expectations.

“I thought we had a really
good chance to be one of the top
teams in the conference,” said
senior setter Cheryl Taurassi.

The Generals began the tour-
nament in championship-caliber
form, dispatching Emory and
Henry in three games. Virginia
Yoerg led the W&L attack in the
opening match. The junior
middle-blocker had 12 kills and
a pair of solo blocks. Taurassi
helped the winning cause with
17 assists.

This three- game match proved
to be an effective warm-up for
the Generals because Guilford
would give W&L all they could
handle in the semiﬁnals.

Guilford came out strong in
the first match and earned a con-
vincing 15-7 victory in the first
game. This was the wake-up call
the Generals needed; they came
roaring back to take the next two
games 15-12, 15-12.

Guilford, however, was not
ready to roll over and die. The
Quakers hung tough in the fourth
game and ﬁnally prevailed in a
18-16 nail-biter.

In the deciding game, the
Generals showed the Guilford
home crowd and the rest of the
field why they dominated the
conference this season. W&L
stormed back once again, and
earned a 15-12 victory and a re-
turn trip to the ﬁnals.

The Guilford match was one
to behold; the ﬁve games were
decided by a total of 19 points. In
addition, many Generals players
recorded spectacular perfor-
mances in the match.

Taurassi shattered school
record for assists in a match by
tallying an amazing ﬁfty. Yoerg
had another ﬁne offensive effort
with 22 kills.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

  

 

Eric Zavolinsky cans a jumper during practice.

Winter sports
ready to play

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

As the fall sports teams are
wrapping up their competitive
seasons, another group of ath-
letes are getting ready to be-
come the focus of Washington
and Lee athletics. For the past
few weeks, members of the
swimming, basketball, and
wrestling teams have been con-
ditioning, practicing, and pre-
paring for the mid-November
starts to their seasons.

Women’s Basketball:

The women’s basketball
team, under head coach Terri
Dadio and assistant coach
Brenda Davis, is ready to begin
its second season of Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
play. The team is very young
and small in numbers with only
three returning upperclassmen
and six freshmen.

But accordingto Dadio,this
is a combination that will work
for her team. “From a coach-
ing perspective, I’m looking
forward to the season. I think
we have a lot of youth, a lot of
energy, and I think we have a
lot more talent than we did last
year. And I think that’s the
combination that we need to be
more successful.”

The team will be led this
year by senior co—captains
Allison Hull and Sandra
Holmes. Holmes and Dadio
both believe that one of the
team’s goals for the season is
qualifying for the ODAC tour-
nament. Holmes stated, “One
expectation I have is to ﬁnish
strongly in the ODAC. I think
we have a really good team this
year...the one thing that’s hurt-
ing us is that we don’t have so
many returners. But I think
that our younger players are
mature enough to step up and
till the spot and get the job
done.. .I want everyone to know
that W&L is a team to be reck-
oned with.”

Women’s Swimming:

The women’s swimming
team was supposed to kick off

its season with a meet against

Centre College this Saturday.
However the meet has been
moved to January 6th because
of pool problems at Centre. The
Generals have won this particu-
lar opener for the past three sea-
sons. Under the direction of
head coach Kiki Jacobs, the team
enters the season with sixteen
solid swimmers on its roster.

“[This is] a team that’s got a
lot more depth than it used to,”
said Jacobs.

The women swimmers are
hoping to capture another
ODAC title with the leadership
of co—captains Jill Sheets and
returning All-American
Rebekah Prince. The team’s
veteran upperclassmen will be
helped by a six-member strong
freshmen class, including
standouts Courtney Tyler, Greta
Richter, and Megan Hoehl.

Jacobs hopes that in addition
to winning the conference, sev-
eral of her swimmers will qualify
for the national championships.
Prince could be returning to na-
tionals for her fourth time.

Looking past the season
opener, the team is gearing up
for what promise to be fast, tough
meets against Catholic Univer-
sity, Johns Hopkins University,
and Gettysburg College later in
the season.

Before the team can face
these schools and head toward a
conference title, they must ﬁrst
face the challenge of a broken
circulation pump. Twombly
Pool ’s malfunctioning pump has
forced the team to practice in
the small pool on the third ﬂoor
of the Warner Center, swim-
ming in shifts of only four or
ﬁve at a time.

Wrestling:

The wrestlers will start their
season on Saturday at the VMI
Keydet Invitational. Head coach
Gary Franke and assistant coach
Rolf Piranian have 22 athletes
on their roster this year, about
half of whom are returnees. The
team will be looking for leader-
ship from captains Colin
Looney, wrestling at 190

See PREVIEW,
page 6

Sophomore hitter Hilary Mar-
tin had a tremendous all-around
match with 15 digs and 16 kills.
Hitters Holly Thomsen and
Megan Snodgrass also reached
double ﬁgures in kills for the
Generals with 18 kills and 16
kills, respectively.

Referring to the Guilford
match, Taurassi said, “We’re two
evenly matched teams. It came
down to the wire and everyone
played so well.”

The hard-fought match with
Guilford was all the motivation
W&L needed heading into the
ﬁnals against Roanoke. All of
the Generals were at the top of
their games as W&L over-
whelmed Roanoke in three
games, 15-4, 15-13, 15-8.

Taurassi capped off a fantas-
tic tournament with four aces to
go along with 13 assists. She
tallied a total of 96 assists during
the tournament, which earned her
MVP honors.

Besides Taurassi, Martin and
Yoerg were also selected for the
all-toumament team.

This is Washington and Lee’s

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Celebration

first ODAC title since the begin-
ning of the program. After many
seasons of coming close, the
Generals can ﬁnally enjoy the
view from the top.

The Generals’ volleyball team had plenty to cheer about this past weekend
after capturing the ODAC tournament for the first time in history. W&L’s
three wins in the tournament enabled the Generals to finish the fall at 29-6.

Generals’ football outlasts Guilford  

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

One would assume that Guilford would have learned by now not
to throw the football in Stuart Hogue’s direction late in ‘the game.

Evidently, Guilford quarterback Dan Strelkauskas had not ﬁgured
that out yet. Hogue gave him a refresher course by intercepting a pass
at the W&L 14 with a minute and a half remaining in the game to seal
a hard-fought 13-9 Generals win on Saturday.

Last season, on Guilford’s ﬁnal drive, Hogue swatted away a
Strelkauskas pass intended for wide receiver Junior Lord in the end
zone as W&L captured a stunning 13-7 upset of the ODAC leaders.

One year later, the fortunes had changed for both teams. Although
Guilford had retained nearly all of their offensive weapons from the
powerful 1994 squad, the Quakers were bumbling along at a disap-
pointing 3-4 coming into the game. In the meantime, W&L had passed
them in the opposite direction, as the Generals were searching for their
ﬁfth straight win Saturday at a chilly Wilson Field.

W&L head coach Frank Miriello was not about to discount the still-
dangerous Quakers, though.

“They’re the scariest team in the league by far,” he said. “They.
have so much speed. All we were trying to do was to contain them.”

The game started out at a Guilford pace: a shootout. W&L
methodically marched down the ﬁeld on its opening drive, which
ended with J.P. Josephson hauling in a 16-yard TD reception from
Brooks Fischer for a 6-0 lead.

Guilford quickly answered back with a drive of its own. The
Quakers moved all the way down to the W&L 1, where the Generals’
defense stiffened in a big way. Defensive tackle Robert Hull rose to
the challenge by nailing Guilford star run-
ning back David Heggie for a three-yard

capped with James Urban’s six-yard TD grab with ten minutes left
to catapult W&L back into the lead at 13-9. On the drive, Fischer
completed ﬁve of his seven passes for 53 yards.

Fischer was named the ODAC Offensive Player of the Week by
connecting on 17 of his 35 passes for an outstanding 262 yards
during the game. His two touchdown ﬂings tied him for second
place on the all-time W&L touchdown pass list with 27.

“Brooks had a great football game,” Miriello said. “That last

drive was like a Montana drive.”

Guilford wasn’t about to disappear quietly into the frigid after-
noon, though. The Quakers responded by driving downﬁeld to the
W&L 35, but failed on a fourth down attempt. {

The Generals responded with a long pass reception by Chas
Chastain, which moved the ball deep into Guilford territory. It
appeared that W&L was on the verge of salting the game away, but
then disaster struck as Guilford forced a turnover. '

With only a few minutes left, i t had appeared that W&L had
locked up the game again by forcing Guilford into a fourth and 18
deep in Quaker territory, but Strelkauskas responded by completing
the fourth down pass near midﬁeld to keep the desperation drive
alive with under two minutes remaining.

With the determined Guilford offense half the ﬁeld away from
saving its season from oblivion, the W&L coaching staff went back

to the drawing board again.

“We decided to blitz the quarterback, and play a more cautious
defense with the clock running down,” Miriello said.

Playing the uncustomary role of favorite against Gzrilford, W&L
made the big play. With Lord and Heggie temporarily on the bench,
the Generals’ defense kept them there permanently. Under pressure,
Strelkauskas forced a pass deep down the middle, where Hogue was

waiting for it at the W&L 14.

loss, which forced the Quakers to be content
with a 21-yard Chris Meehl ﬁeld goal.

A Hull had a huge game for the Generals by
making 12 tackles and picking up two of
W&L’s ﬁve sacks. Defensive lineman John
Tweardy had one of the sacks, as well as
making eight tackles.

It did not take long for Guilford to claim
the lead. Strelkauskas connected on a 15-
yard TD pass to speedy backup wideout Dee '
Rankin, giving Guilford a 9-6 advantage. In
the meantime, Heggie was doing his best
Barry Sanders impersonation by rushing for
110.yards in the ﬁrst half alone.

The Quakers took their 9-6 lead into half-
time, where Miriello and the rest of the W&L

e.

    

Photo by Scott Bookwalter, Phi Sports Editor

W&L won its fifth straight game
on Saturday against Guilford, 13-9.

coaching staff plotted a way to slow down
Heggie, as well as wide receiver comrades
Lord and William Rochelle.

The adjustments worked, as W&L slowed the pace down consid-
erably in the second half.

“We slowed our pursuit down a little to stop the cutbacks, and we
changed our coverage some,” Miriello explained. “Heggie’s speed
was amazing, but the players became more acclimated to that speed
(in the second half).” '

With time starting to wind down, Fischer took command. The
junior gamely directed the Generals on a 79-yard drive which was

“That interception was a huge relief,”
Miriello said.

Like the situation last year after
Hogue’s heroics against Guilford, W&L
will face Swarthmore in the ﬁnal game
of the season. Last season, the Generals
prevailed, 14-11, as W&L stopped the
Garnet Tide ﬁve times inside the W&L
30, including the ﬁnal drive of the game.
Swarthmore will enter Wilson Field on
Saturday with a log of 4-5.

Miriello expects it to be a tough game,
but feels the Generals will prevail as long
as they do not beat themselves.

At the start of the season, the W&L
football team had a goal of winning six
games.

It did not appear that would

' happen after an 0-2-1 start, but Miriello
maintained that the dream would be real-
ized, especially because of W&L’s offensive improvement.

“The potential for a turnaround was there,” he said. “We knew
that sooner or later it would turn.”

A sixth win in a row would provide the 5-2-1 Generals with their
longest win streak since 1985, and their longest victory run to end the
season since 1981, as well as solidifying at least a third-place ﬁnish
in the ODAC. Also, it would give Miriello the distinction of winning

‘ the most games as a W&Lﬁrst-year head coach since back in 1914.

“We’re going to accomplish this goal,” Miriello vowed.

Cross-country excels at ODACS

W&L, whose closest competi-

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staff Writer

Last Saturday, on a very cold
and windy afternoon, the men’s
cross country team captured its
second straight ODAC title‘ and
proved that it could win under
less than ideal circumstances.

Sophomore Jason Callen led
the Generals by ﬁnishing ﬁrst
overall in the meet with a time of
26:32. Callen received ODAC
Runner of the Year honors for
his efforts, and along with fourth
place ﬁnisher Brad Paye, was
named to the All-ODAC team.

Freshman Darrick Alford,
sophomore Will Olson, and
freshman Josh Beckham rounded
out the Generals’ top ﬁve with
finishes of ninth, tenth, and
twelfth, respectively.

tor was Roanoke with 61 points,
ﬁnished with a score of 36 points.

This victory gave the Generals.

their second straight ODAC title,
and provided a boost the team
needed as it heads to Memphis,
Tennessee, to compete in the
NCAA Regional Meet.

Alford commented, “We had
some guys who really stepped up
and ran well. We won even though
we were missing one of our top
ﬁve runners (Taylor Shultz), and
our number three runner (Will
Olson), was running sick.”

The Generals are conﬁdent as
they prepare for Regionals; how-
ever, they realize that they will be
running against some really good
teams. Team members expect
Emory University and Rhodes
College to be their top competi-
tion in the meet. ‘

“Rhodes has a deﬁnite ad-
vantage, considering they’re
running on their home course,”
added Alford.

Despite this fact, though, the
Generals will enter the meet
ranked ﬁrst in the entire region,
and are favored to win.

On the ladies’ side, W&L
ﬁnished a close second in the
conference meet to Lynchburg.
This loss broke the Generals’
streak of winning three straight
ODAC titles.

However, the loss did not
diminish great individual per-
formances from senior
Josephine Schaeffer, sophomore
Carson Flowers, and junior Nat
Messmore. All three were
named to the all-conference
team, and ﬁnished ﬁrst, third,
and sixth, respectively.

Catherine Cardullo and Sarah

Feinberg rounded out the Gener-
als’ top ﬁve runners by placing
thirteenth and fourteenth.

The women will also travel to
Memphis to compete for the
NCAA Regional crown. Team
members expect strong competi-
tion from Emory, ODAC cham-
pion Lynchburg, and Rhodes.

If a W&L team places ﬁrst at
Regionals, it will travel to La
Crosse, Wisconsin, to race
against the best teams in the na-
tion. Expectations are high for
both teams, but the majority of
the pressure is coming from the
team members themselves.

“We’re going in thinking that
this is our race (Regionals) to
lose,” said Alford.

If both teams run like they are
capable of running, they will jour-
ney to Wisconsin together to run
withthe best.

9

4.‘

G

