A

  

.:_,'3v
..' r

 -1:» 2. 531'»: 1: at‘: *..'’«i’
. Q U‘ lkﬂ-rmtTY
a_ ".’!.. 994(1)

08?  1995

SEE SDECIEI REIWOII an

HiDDEN RASE’

Generals end in
stalemate with

centre

([0

~75

VOLUME 96, NO. 4 .WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

If your parents could see you now...

Fraternity Rush 1995 ended with Tear Night festivities on Saturday.

Marshall made what was perhaps his greatest contri-
bution tothe country in the grim peace that followed.

The Marshall Plan, Smith argued, was “the most enlight-
ened piece of public policy in the 20th century.”

CNN analyst talks

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

he it’ting—t11miﬂhi

SEPTEMBER 29, 1995

B&G resolvesproblems
with fraternity cleaning

BY ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

When Washington and Lee didn’t renew the
contract to clean fraternity houses with Stone-
wall Management last year, there was ooncem
that Buildings and Grounds would not be able
to do an adequate cleaning job.

Fortunately, B&G crews have been able to
handle the jobs given to them.

“There was initial concern that we [W&L
and B&G] weren’t ready to take on the respon-
sibility,” said Associate Dean of Students and
Greek Affairs Leroy “Buddy” Atkins. “But [the
cleaning] is on par with last year.”

B&G did have a rocky start though.

Atkins said concerns were voiced at the
beginning of the school year when house moth-
ers and fraternity members returned to find
basic summer maintenance unﬁnished. In addi-
tion, each B&G custodian was assigned to three
houses, allowing only two and a half hours at
each one.

This problem has been corrected according
to Mark Fontenot, Assistant Director and Safety
Officer for B&G.

“One additional custodians will give each
custodian only two houses to clean, and four
hours for each one.”

Mary Holt Taylor, the Phi Gamma Delta
house mother, said that should correct any
problems experienced earlier this term. She
said four hours is enough time to clean
the houses.

Students said the B&G custodians are

doing well.

“It’s probably just as good as last year,”
Sigma Phi Epsilon junior Dave Seidel said.

Sophomore Gill Stroube of Kappa Alpha
believes B&G was doing an even better job
than Stonewall Management’s people.

“l see them [B&G] working around the
house,” said Stroube. “They’ve already fixed
some stuff.”

Fontenot and Atkins dismissed the early
problems as what happens when new people
are assigned new jobs.

Fontenot, who also inspects the fraternity
houses, explained the procedure for calling in
additional cleaning crews.

If he comes in Monday morning and finds a
mess in the party room, he’ll usually give the
brothers until Tuesday morning to get it clean.
If the area is not clean by Tuesday, then addi-
tional B&G crews are called in to clean it. The
fraternity may be billed forthe time B&G spent
cleaning. He said the 24 hour grace period
usually doesn’t apply to other areas of
the house.

Atkins said some houses manage to keep the
house cleaner than others.

“There are some chapters l’ve never heard a
complaint about and there are others that you
wonder if they’re potty—trained.”

Fontenot agreed and asked students to clean
up after themselves. he said it would keep
chapters from paying for additional clean-ups.

He also said he thinks B&G staff will be able
to get close to the students living in the houses.

“lt’s our people and our buildings; they take
pride in their wor .”

W&L Class of 1995’faring

on media, military

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

“The calling of journalism and the.calling of the military
seem to be quite different (nowadays),” Major General
Perry M. Smith, USAF (Ret.) observed in last night’s
Marshall Lecture in Lee Chapel.

Rarely indeed do the two ﬁelds overlap in one career,
and the life of Perry Smith stands as an impressive
exception.

Born into an army family, Smith’s first adult friend and
next door neighbor was the Five-Star General Omar Brad-
ley. At age 7, Smith witnessed the bombing of Pearl Harbor.

Smith graduated from West Point in the same class as
Norman Schwarzkopf, and during his service ﬂew 180
combat missions over North Vietnam and Laos. After
serving his country for 30 years, Smith retired, but only to
become more visible to the public eye.

On January 15 of 1990, the Gulf War broke out in the
Middle East, and Smith received a telephone call from
CNN, with an offer to act as military analyst.

With only a brief makeup session as training, Smith
began his career on international television.

Five years later, Smith has become an established figure
in the spheres of media and government relations, and now
divides his time between lecturing across the U.S. and
abroad, and writing.

The titles from two of Smith ’s more recent books, Taking
Charge - A Practical Guide For Leaders, and How CNN
Fought the War - A View From the Inside perhaps best
illustrate the issues Smith raised in his lecture last night: the
elements of effective leadership, especially after the model
of George C. Marshall, and the present-day inﬂuence of the
media on the military.

Smith opened his lecture with a reflection on the media
giant CNN and the level of news coverage it has established
in America and beyond.

Perhaps more important than any other feature of
CNN’s coverage is the speed with which stories come
to camera.

“The velocity of decision making at CNN is very impor-
tant,” Smith emphasized. “Many times stories went over the
air without any preparation.”

The inevitable result of such rapid coverage, Smith
added, was the airing of stories that were “many times
too superficial.”

Meanwhile, the strength of CNN is its widespread, well-
structured organization. CNN, according to Smith, boasts a
“brain trust of 40,000 people” and therefore can draw on a
vast resource of information.

During the Gulf War, for example, CNN attracted 40
times the audience share that CBS did, its public reputation
as the foremost source for crucial news.

After discussing in detail the explosion of CNN onto the
media scene and its remarkable effectiveness, Smith then
turned to George C. Marshall, a man who understood the
importance of maintaining a healthy relationship between
military and press.

Marshall was appointed Chief of Staff the same day that
Germany invaded Poland and began WWII, a day in
Smith’s mind crucial to modern history.

Marshall’s appointment, Smith explained, was easily
“the most personal decision of FDR’s 12 years.”

An important figure during the war’s progression,

“The great secret to the plan was the implementation
Marshall conceived by enabling devastated European coun-
tries to rebuild their own countries with American support.
The Marshall Plan effectively ensured the strength of
the West.”

Smith dosed his lecture on the military media with an
exercise in speculation, asking whether world events might
have followed different courses had CNN existed as early
as the 1930s and 1940s. .

“lt probably would have made a difference,” Smith
reﬂected, as ‘the American citizen would have begun to
realize [sooner than he did] that we had monsters on the
horizon—monsters bearing Fascist and Communists ﬂags.”

Smith reached a conclusion to his speech with a heartfelt
defense of the principles of freedoms of the press and
expression, eloquently laid out within our very
Constitution.

In his book Taking Charge, Perry Smith writes, “Seeking
the truth is easy, but finding it in all cases is hard.” One can
only feel that much more respect for a person who has
sought and found the truth, no matter where the
search led.

30

25

20

15

10

0

15
The Snag: '95 Rush Results

Phi Psi wins the race and captures 26, and
SAE finishes a distant second with 20.

Compiled by Michael Hewlett
Graph by Anne Alvord

well in varied job market

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant News Editor

According to preliminary reports, members of the Class
of 1995 are fairing well in the job market. As of September
1, ninety four of last year’s seniors have reported to the
Career Development and Placement Office that they have
found full time employment. The recent graduates have
secured jobs in a variety of places, from accounting firms,
hospitals, software corporations, and the federal govem-
ment to CNN. -

Career Development and Placement Office Director
Beverly Lorig anticipates that, “...we’re going to have a very
positive report from the Class of ‘95. At graduation, we saw
similar types of reports of jobs as we’ve seen in previous
years.”

Throughout the fall, the Career Development and Place-
ment Office staff will place phone calls and write letters to

members of last year’s graduating class, asking them about
their current employment status and offering CDPO job
search services. In January, the data collected will be
compiled and published in the annual CDPO report.

The report recently published on the Class of 1994 is very
positive. Of 342 graduates, 178 are employed full time, 57
hold temporary positions, 83 are pursuing advanced studies,
15 are seeking employment, 5 are not seeking employment
and 4 did not respond to the CDPO study.

Lorig urges all Washington and Lee students, especially
the members of the Class of 1996, to become familiar with
the CDPO resources. The staff is available to help students
find summer internships, which Lorig says are increasingly
being used by businesses as recruitment tools.

However, students need to take note that many of the
highly selective internships have approaching fall applica-
tion deadlines. Seniors especially need to be aware that the
deadline for submitting resumes for J anuary’s Selective
Liberal Arts Job Fair is October 27. Last year, the lob Fair
brought 131 employers to W&L to conduct on- campus
interviews with seniors.

 
 

W
E
@

ICIOUI
HOOD-
IUDDI

%®@

Chi Psi
FIJI

KA

Kappa Sig
Lambda Chi
Phi Delt
Phi Kapp
Phi Psi
PiKA

Pi Phi
SAE
Sigma Chi
Sigma Nu
Sig Ep

Mystery
burglaries
solved

BY ANNE Arvom)
Phi Staff Writer

The rash of summer burglaries
which victimized local residences, busi-
nesses, and schools has come to an end.

David Wayne Hall, 30, of Piedmont
Ave., Buena Vista, was arrested at 5:40
p.m. on September 20 in connection
with the burglaries. Among the break-
ins were Maury River Middle School,
Central Elementary School, a local car
lot, and several residences, including
Gaines Hall.

Hall has been formally charged with
31 felonies and one misdemeanor, in-
cluding charges from both Rockbridge
County and the City of Lexington. The
felony charges include breaking and
entering and grand larceny. More
charges are anticipated.

Hall is accused of absconding with
between $30,000 and $40,000 of prop-
erty, which included computers, TVs,
VCRs, clothing (primarily women’s),
jewelry, and video games. Only a frac-
tion of the stolen property has been
recovered.

Although Hall has not implicated
any others in the crimes, the investiga-
tion remains open. Based on the mag-
nitude of the theft and the nature of the
items stolen, police suspect that more
people are involved.

 

PAGE 2 The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

 

 

Maj or drug bust brings
° L '
, BEYOND excitement to exington
 B L I I  information by an anonymous infor-
l _ BY Cllhnsrll RASMUSSEN mant. The marijuana seized ‘has an
phi Slarr wrner §§i(l)ﬂ(I)E(l)t3d street value of approximately
_ _ The evening brought much excite-
_ Le Big cityltroubleicallie to small tgwn merit to students who happened to be in
o 0 0 o xington astwee w enamajor rug the area durin the dru bust. Accord-
D ellb eratlons In SlIn.pS0n tauzt gccurredh on Je:_fersonRStr¢]:(e,t naear ing to Sigma lglu sophfmore Geoffrey
5 <l"3i'€- 000! ing to oc ri ge Boume, who watched the arrests from
trial Set to be on da County Sheriff’s Department Officer the side porch of his fraternity house,a
g1 y Cglemfan, tlwo black malcasfand one little after nine that evening six police
w rte ema e were arreste or trans- cars drove up and surrounded the sus-
rt’ f ft d f " .
Los Angeles-——The prosecution ﬁnally rested its case against 0.]. p0'[!h‘eg r,',d§f;':iE§)i:'insVr(:iv';':",’,‘},ag':re Pecifl was rah sea at fhsl The
Simpson on Wednesday. Both prosecutors Marcia Clark and Christopher from the Roanoke area, are ellrrenrly ln Slale trooper hady a gulrlypolhled  one
  was
cocii '11 fi 'sh h‘s su mazio b F}'dry. Aft $9‘ fe b in ob niiie set at ten thousam-1 dollars‘ Whither“ g'°""d' W‘ W“ “" d“°ki“g b°"i"d
W:_“’1 thmt all wal“ V V] [Y  t*_‘)’- I her 3 he is llibee y 6 not they_ had any intent to distribute in things trying to watch.”
prosecu ion, e ri i mo e in o is ina‘ p ase, jury ei rations. lhe mxlngton area ls ellrrerllly under Comic taller was soon Provided,
Judge Lance lto, eager to bring the year-old trial to a close and motivated investigation. however by a Phi Kappa Sigma mem- R
:y restltezs isnﬁxpehcted tofaskohhe jury i‘f, thgy ‘want tlq illlcrease the _ Three organizations were respolh bar who grafted blasllhglha song “Bad
?ltlISO ei ra IO in opeso pr ucinga er ic mas 0 er amoun sibie for the arrests; llle vlrglrlla Task Boys,» the theme to the police drama
0 im€~ Force, the Roanoke Vice and the local television show “Cops” from his bed-
police department. They were given room window_ ah ‘ a BC! G Ph_ Ph t Ed‘
00 y sy reen, 1 oo ior
R
O O O C _
Bosnian civil war continues Mother speaks to
Man, myth or legend...
d°SPi“e Peace Plan aPP"°"a1 W&L about hazing
A
Bocci Commissioner Dean David Howison stomps the
New York—ln an American-brokered peace plan, rival Bosnian fac- Phi at Wednesday’s friendly competition.
tions agreed to establish a joint parliament and presidency, and democratic
elections in their culturally divided nation. Yet while the conditions of the BY EWLY BAKER
new government were being discussed, a cease-fire could not be agreed Phi Executive Edhor A
upon; thus, the war rages on. However, President Bill Clinton said the pact
“moves us closer to the ultimate goal of securing peace.” P t 1. k k t
Chuck Stenzel was a 20-year-old economics and history major at Alfred a   S 0
University in New York when he decided topledge a fraternitv.
On the day he pledged, February 24, 1978, Chuck’s new fraternity brothers a ' S 11 1 t d t A
Sh0rt_term S g Ian put him in the trunk of a car with a pint of Jack Daniels, a six-pack, and a fifth - » C  S u  S
p P of wine. They told him he had to drink it before he was released, and shut
the Fi100i'. “All this stuff is out there, and we in
° orty minutes later, they opened the tmnk again. Like many of his pledge the newspaper business are just realiz-
to avold   brothers Chuck was unconscious BY MICHAEL HE ' ‘ ’ ‘ '
, . WLEIT ing how it s affecting us,” he said.
Uvrllllilke tlhte resal of his pledge lpjrothers, Chuck died that night. Phi Associate Editor Yack said that his paper owns ''
. . . . . “ ha died I had never heard of the terms ‘hazin ’ Infinet an internetcom an and hasa
Washington, D.C.—President Bill Clinton and congressional leaders . en oim Pm my  - ’ , - g ’ . . P y’
are closer to adopting a short-terrn spending plan that would keep the 3:. lI::“C\h:eekl .?lrle§(ll:'ldgl:lS hlslilglfghlgism(;iae1;lElli:;nh§:Vei:s’3:536 spokg g:,).I2°‘£,a%eOv:'hth [mks 0" the world
government operating until November 13. The agreement would mean brothers P6 y g I nee I 6 W‘ cm] y P e ges an hewésgggteéo ilolbio years fiom nlfw’ lhétfa daftha Saglgelvésgglglemare Stan‘
tht fd l k ldbfl hd M d ,th 1" td f ' V. . , ,w' “°w5°°“°’s“’ ere . . ’ ’ .
‘ha Inaiweﬁearcaalvilgrarerasalitillizahlgh €Coi::'g<:;lSgS Easmyet ‘:2 gas a‘: agmggefh thToday, she might know more about the fraternity system than any information can be gathered . and With allthis new technology, news- }(
spending hill. 0 er woman. _ diseminated through print, television papers are losing the younger genera-
Later that year, Stevens formed C.H.U.C.K., the Committee to Halt Useless or the Internet, said Pat Yack, editor of tion. »
College Killings. Through C.H.U.C.K., Stevens has tried to raise awareness of the Greensboro, N.C. News and Record “There’s no generational interest in
hazing practices, encourage legislation to eliminate hazing, and document Wednesday, ’ newspapers anymore,” he said. “It’sa
hazing de3th5- He spoke to the Journalism 253 and S030’ thought-”
Israel to  from West The’ pathologist who performed Chuck’s autopsylsaid that the cause of Editing 35] classes about changes in But Yack said he is not too con- 1’
Chuck sdeathwasacutealcohol poisoningcombinedwithexposuretooold, and the newspaper business and what his cemed about it. Regardless of what
too much ﬂuidlinthe lungs. Afterthe brothers tookthe pledgesout ofthetrunks, paperdoesto keep upwiththetechnoi- happens in journalism over the next
Bank and   they pLli them in a room frlled with cots to sleep it off. While he was passed out, ogy. few years, the business will require the
Chuck s lungs filled with ﬂuid beyond their capacity. He drowned in his Technology is starting to change, same skills needed now.
OW" fhlid- _ i and journalists must try to stay in- “The art of reporting is still going to 3'-
jerllsalenl__ln a landmark decision’ lsrael has agreed to ll gradual The pathologist told Stevens that he almost passed out from the smell of formed of new deveioprnents be cherished,” Yack said.
withdraw] of the West Bank and to giving Palestinians self-rule over the 310°“?! "1 _Ch“Ck’S_5t0m3Ch-
area which has been the center of much conﬂict between Arabs and Jews b U"'l"¢rS11ata)l/ Pflgclals Could tehalhﬁ Siehehiacj huh? Ofhellihah that there had 0
throughout history. Although many details still need to be worked out, the 99“ f1_ 0'0 “'1 1"ga”}P3")’_s 3“_ ‘W0 0‘ 91' )’3W°1’°"” ‘5 h°5Pi‘3l ih °"m°3] I I gt P D 
agreement will practically lead to a separate Palestinian state. °°“Sdm0“- A tgolhough 1’l1(‘j’°5t18:"°" ‘zould the l3Uh°h¢d«   . . a S A
tevens sai s e wou not nowt e trut today about her son’s death had ‘
it not been for Chuck’s roommate, who later called and told her Chuck died in f  .
a hazing ritual at Klan Alpine. fraternity house, a local fraternity at Alfred.   O S
The tmnk ritual had been perfonned year after year, the roommate said, with
no harmful consequences.
’ t‘ The ulliverstlly and the distfrict attprneyésloflicedconclaided tlhllir investiga- BY Ronln SEATON ll.
ions, ca ing e case an un ortuna e an iso ate inci ent. e university - ~
withdrew its recognition of the fraternity for a probationar riod. Phi Staff wmer
Y P9
There have been 75 hazing deaths in the past 18 years, Stevens said, two of
which occurred in the past month, one in Iowa and one in Illinois. Lexington’sﬁnest have four new officers onthe streets. These men were hired
She emphasized that she is not anti-Greek, but only wishes to see to fill the void left by recent resignations, according to Chief of Police Bruce ,
hazing halted. l . Beard. Thlelnew officers have assumed regular patrol duties within the city. Their
_ I havg learnedhsql much farorrpu illlhof you (fraternity menl),”hshq‘ said. “You have responsibilities include responding to criminal acts, accidents, traffic and vehicle
. l _ , . imlpressel me wit t e won e t ings you can acoomp is w en you put your violations, and ensuring public safety.
Edaltor S Note’  Watch 1's a minds t0 it.”_ _ _ Officer Jonathan Shenk has previous experience with the military police.
speclalwegkly feature to keep Washlng. b Stevenlsl d(i;d nit colrlne herehbeqajutae W&L hasd a haiinlg problem, she said, but According to Shenk, law enforcement is «what l,va always wanted to do... of a
l . ecause a ree co eges s ou e conceme wit t e issue. . Lexington, he says, “it’s a small town, but it’s ot its times.” «-
ton and Le? S Students In-Formed ab?ut ljledges should not let brothers intimidateathem into silence, she said. Ofﬁcer Keith Haraway joined the force in lateg December 1994. He previously
the Republlcan Presdentlal Campalgn b a You are ttlllie only ones who can speak up,’ she said. “I implore you to do so illienll fqur years with the park service on the Blue Ridge Parkway. Officers
. . e ore some I e .” ‘ d '
an advance of Mock Conventaona rig g0 S Wrong ic ae Hess an Michael Huffman could not be reached for comment.
X
i - B f t h nored at
Perot s third party could en-e ac or 0
O C
if
spell trouble for the cop dedication ceremony
In the wake of billionaire Ross Perot’s announcement Tuesday that he
will start his own political party for the 1996 Presidential Elections, many including the Ri‘ng—tum Phi, Alpha Tau Omega hr
Republicans are concerned about the possible implications of such an and the first W&L lacrosse team. ’
organization on their own bid for the presidential race. Although many say BY ETHAN KRUPP one of wilhams’ most notable investments
that Perot himself lacks the popularity to run again in I996, any third party Phi Staff Writer was in 1977 when he purchased as many shares
candidate withthe backing of Perot’s supporters could poseaseriousthreat of Berkshire Hathaway as he could find for
to the GOP’s candidate. Lawyers are still questioning the legality of $152 after reading about it in “Fortune” maga-
allowing Perot to ﬁnance the third party with his personal funds, while l b cl l l d l r zine_ Berkshire Hathaway is the parent com- )-
some doubt that the Independence Party will meet deadlines for voter gnrclzggttimseffigsfoqmif tiiseonni:|fir?gu ast tahse pany of many different companies, including
signatures in order to gain ballot access, which are as early as October in dedication of the School of Commerce, Ec0_ seeis Candyland several insurance businesses.
some states’ nomics and Politics. Their stock is now the most expensive stock
The school was named the Ernest Williams traded on the New York Stock Exchange, val-
II School of Commerce, Economics, and Poli- tied at roughly $23,5(_)0_P°1’ Sham L.
tics. Williams graduated from Washington and _ Peppers saidlthe million dollor endownmerit
0 0 Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor Lee in 1933_ This is the first time the W&L will allow Williams School faculty to partici-
  over  Board of Trustees have named a school, other pate in activities that could not be covered by
Eileen Stevens speakasntao thtle W&,II‘4u°‘:a1a1munitY than the university itself, aftqr a benefalqtor. the ;i0rtnli:|eh‘i;<:§;laSThf Fi)T;(<:h:s);OWr:l£’l:0“::;1v‘e‘:
' ' about hazing in Lee ape on e ay. But Williams is not an a umnus w 0 just cov r l
  of Medlcald gives W&L some extra cash. abroad with students, faculty members who "-
. " “He is the single biggest benefactor of present internaltionlal papers, and special speak-
_ r _ v ‘ll D f th C-sch 1 La C, ers, among ot ert ings.
The controversy within the Republican party over Medicaid continued     lhahéigplgrslsai 93" 0 9 0° “'3' In addition to the endowment, Williams and
to escalate this week as moderate Recpublican senatqrslextpressedf titiellf . . Brian Shaw, Director of Communications llls wll=e,Mnrl-orleallave sponsored severalother
concerns over the House Commerce ommittee’s vo e in avor o s a e d t t . R l l. hl l ovldalhe Speclal programs at W&L all
 of        new ABC is H0      ..      .. 
efforts to balance the budget through various means, including the pro- that ll hm he released_ fessorship, which is currently held by Pamela
posed revisions of the Medicaid Program. However, they fear that The board also used aponloh of Williams: Simpson ofthe arr rlepartrnenr
complete state control of the program which provides health care for By RYAN BEAMAN gifts lo eslabllsll a $1 nlllllon endownment to Another gift is the Marjorie 0. Williams
millions of needy Americans would result in a reduction in quality of health phi Sraff wrller support actlvhlas l h the Williams School Library Endownrnent_ This enoownnlenr helps a
care forchildren and in less spending of state funds on Medicaid. As voting According to peppers, the reason lhe board the library expand its collection
in the Senate began Wednesday on a draft of the overhaul’ many Reput» The Augusta/Staunton police agency which currently serves chose the C-School to bear Williams’ name Williams has ah'ii0Si made 3 S6C0i1d C3F_€0T
“can moderates remained wary ofthe pr-090-Sad changes’ e~mRhaslzm-g ‘hat Lexington will soon be replaced by the Roanoke district agency. was straightforward. 0"‘ 0f dommng ‘O W&L He has giVe" "Oi Just
they could become. Signiﬁcant lmemal dmslonsascampalgmng continues Although Chief of Police Bruce Beard has not been thoroughly “Since Williams’ success was in the busi- money, _though.' . _
for the 1996 demons’ informed of the entire situation and has yet to meet the new ness arena, the Williams School seemed appro- l“Ei’ii_ie has given so much of himself to hrs at
Roanoke agent, he said the change will likely occur on Oct. 1. pi-iate,” said Peppers. UiiiV_6TSily, I10! only through his gigta, but thagiaiaglh
The new agency will be most visible during major events Although Williamsmade hisfortunethrougah hiSii_m6,i3l6iitS,8iid energy, S81 0i’m€T _
' h ' dd't‘ l ff t ' re the streets of Lexing- investments and sales, he never took any poli— president John D. Wilson to the W&L Alumni
Beyond the Blue Watch GOP Watch are ioiifrerggfilgiiz S()lUlI?Cll1.aAoS f1(fl'eirl?e(l)(’.ll'[l)::lty of Roanoke’s agents tics, commerce or economics courses while he Magazine. “The naming of the school for him IS
'1 d b Pe Stuntz and Laura Knapp concerning parties and alcohol, Beard says the rules set by the attended W&L, Instead, he maloi-ed in loumal- a tribute to all he has done for Washington and
compi e y ggy . . . . . he ..
Virginia ABC Board will apply as before. ism and was in a number of organizations, 6- ii.

 

P

\

Al

*1

  

PAGE 3

The Rirggtum Phi, September 29, 1995 1 e

ingg‘€i/vorld
Ur ampus

 

Artwork by Tarah Grant and Bill Overbaugh

By Tarah Grant
Phi Staff Writer

Nestled in the Shenandoah valley,
outsiders may misconceive Lexington
as a rather secluded town. However, as
the world becomes a global commu-
nity, Washington and Lee isn’t losing
ground.

“The countries of the world are be-
coming much more interactive due to
technology,” said Dean Anece
McCloud, advisor of W&L’s Intema-
tional Club. “Since this is the case, it is
very important for the student body to
meet people from foreign places and
learn about their cultures. Only through
knowing and understanding each other
can we have a harmonious and peace-
ful global coexistence.”

There are 13 foreign exchange stu-

dents in this year’s student body. Rep-
resenting countries across the globe,
they bring with them an eagerness to
learn about the American culture and a
willingness to share their own.

‘‘I hope more people try to learn
Japanese and develop an interest in
Japan and its culture,” said Kaori
Okano, one of the four W&L students
on exchange from Japan for this school
year.

Although culture shockstrikes many
foreignvisitors, Washington and Lee’s
foreign exchange students explain that
adjusting is part of the excitement. The
differences between life in their native
countries and in the United States will
lead them to make several lifestyle
changes.

“The biggest difference between
universities and Japan and here is that
American students study very, very,
very hard and students in Japan do not

study so hard,” said Okano.

W&L’s social scene has surprised
some of the students more than any-
thing else.

“In Hong Kong, we don’t go to
parties; instead we do karaoke,” said
To-Keung Chan.

“Hong Kong people are busy with
their work and business; we don’t
spend a lot of time on social activities.
We also don’t drink a lot.”

Each year a few W&L students,
meanwhile, take advantage of the
university’s foreign exchange pro-
grams.

One such student, Michael Harden,
an East Asian studies major, spent last
year in Japan. Harden chose to study
abroad because he felt that there was
no better way to be com-
pletely submersed in the
foreign environment.

Although he found it
difficult to leave his friends
at Washington and Lee,
Harden believes that his
experiences abroad were
well worth missing a year
in Lexington.

“I had great times there,
traveling, doing as little
school work as possible,
and learning more than I
ever have,” Harden said.

For students who feel

. .\ .4; 4:u»:t w

    

“My Spanish improved consider-
ably,” Bookout said, “but I think I
learned the most about the culture, sim-
ply from living there and observing
Spaniards’ daily lives, their interests,
hobbies, etc...l learned more about Spain
itself than you could ever learn from a
textbook.”

While college may seem the ideal
time to take on new challenges and
adventure into the world, many students
don’t wait until college to experience
life abroad.

After graduating from high school in
1994, freshman Bill Overbaugh lived in
Hungary for a year through Rotary In-
ternational Youth Exchange.

Not knowing any Hungarian before
he left, Overbaugh now considers him-
selfﬂuentinthelan—
guage.

“I always knew
that I wanted to
study abroad and
when the opportu-
nity arose to go to
Hungary, I was the
guinea pig who
squeaked too loud,”
Overbaugh ex-
plained with a
smile. “The experi-
ence was invalu-
able. During my
year I learned a. lot

that a year abroad is too
much, W&L’s spring term
programs offer a taste of a
foreign language and culture.

With foreign study programs in
China, Central America, England,
France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Ja-
pan, Russia, and Spain, students have
a wide selection of countries to travel
to and explore in the spring.

Junior Amy Bookout decided to go
to Spain last spring tenn. Bookout
and ten other W&Lstudents studied at
Estudio Intemacional Sampere.

CharT(Ieﬁ) and.Okar;>_

about myself, the
way I relate to oth-
ers, and I realized
what I wanted to do in life.”

Students who have participated in
foreign study programs are usually ea-
ger to encourage others to do the same.
Overbaugh believes the motivation to
study abroad can be summed up in one
phrase he encountered during his ex-
change year, “You can make a differ-
ence —in a world of difference—— by
taking a step toward promoting world
understanding through youth exchange.”

  
 
  
  
 
  

   

Seven — three stars

Seven is essentially a darker,
grimier, less effective Silence of the
Lambs. In a nameless, blighted urban
wasteland, Morgan Freeman is an
older, grizzled veteran cop named
Detective Somerset, who is just get-
ting ready to leave a life of crime-
fighting behind. Brad Pitt portrays a
young policeman, Detective Mills,
who has just come to the big city to
take over Somerset’s job and begin a
life of crime-fighting. ,

But just when Somerset seems
ready to depart, a particularly grue-
some case compels him to stay. Some-
one is killing people in the fashion of
the seven deadly sins: gluttony, greed,
sloth, lust, wrath, envy, and pride. So
a particularly gluttonous man is liter-
ally made to eat till he dies; and simi-
larly othervictims receive justice that
mirrors their sins.

Indeed, the screenwriter (the rela-
tively unknown Andrew Kevin
Walker) has thought up some pretty
ingenious ways of working in the
sins, especially for the last two, envy
and wrath. But on the whole, the plot
moves in a straightforward way, with-
out sudden jumps or unexpected turns

of events. So what provides this film
with punch is twofold: the marvelous
acting, and the effective, moody direc-

 tion.

Here Morgan Freeman secures his
reputation as one of the finest actors
working today. Although this doesn’t
quite match his performance in The
Shawshankkedemption, he once again
provides the film with weight and seri-
ousness. In several scenes, his careful,
heavy technique removes what would
be melodrama and adds a real tension
and concern.

Brad Pitt’s acting similarly contin-
ues to mature. Pitt does a ﬁne job of
getting across the frustration that being
the ‘new guy’ carries with it: people
refuse to take him seriously.

Yet this film never turns into abuddy
or partner film where the focus of the
movie is their relationship. Rather,
while we remain centered on the mur-
ders and the police’s efforts to solve
them, it is in the context of this growing
friendship. The result is a balanced,
well-made look at the situation.

Another high point for the film is
the direction of David Fincher. His last
movie was Alien 3, which, although
the weakest of that series, was a dark,
rich and beautiful-lookingtilm. Fincher
carries the same sort of look intoSeven.

The sets are dark, mysterious, and
generally very depressed looking, but
never inafake,obvious|y“Hollywood”
sense, like in Batman. Fincher is very

capable of bringingacertain mood
to the screen without committing
overkill. Although the screen is
typically draped in dark browns
and blacks, it has such a sheen that
we forget how downright ugly it is
supposed to be. The result is that
we are able to enjoy spending two
hours looking at an ugly city, much
like the way Robert Rodriguez adds
so much style to a dirty Mexican
bar in Desperado.

Easily this film’s biggest prob-
lem is how much it will suffer by
comparison to Silence of the
Lambs. The characters here are
not as ﬂeshed out and real as were
Hannibal Lecter and Clarice Star-
ling. And, where in Silence of the
Lambs one left the theatre won-
dering if one of these psychos was
waiting around the comer, Seven
doesn’t quite get into our heads as
much. Still, the evil, the tension,
and the dirt and grime of it will get
under your skin. Though Seven is
not as psychologically effective as
Silence, it is nevertheless a very
competent thriller.

Three stars: Go see this ﬁlm
now, while it's still on the big
screen. It's worth a few Oscar
nominations and the seven bucks
you'll pay if you see it outside
Lexington. Overall, "Better than
Cats!”

 

honor the memories of
w&L_isangrisn depart-

[ti

5 lth einterested are

By Cintiie Young

PHI FEATURES Enrrok

The Lcnfest Series 1995 will
open this Monday in grand style
with The National Theatre of the
Deafs lavish production of the
1851 French farCeAnItalian Straw
Hat.

Originally written by Eugene
Labiche and Marc Michcl,AnItal~
ian Straw Hat is a "tour dc farce"
of endearing proportions, weav-
ing together with onc straw hat
character after colorful character.
Even the costumes promise to be
entertainment, and Variety ap-
plauded designer Charles Bcrlincr
for his ensembles that poke
"flounced and beribboned fun at
turn-of-the-century styles."

The play will be presented in

  BEHIND as
  URTAIN

NTD'S TOUR
D1: FARCE

NTD‘s signature style, a blend of
Sign Language and spoken words.

Established in 1967, NTD has
performed in nearly every corner of
the globe, and has raised Sign Lan-
guage to the level of an art form.

National Theatre of the Deaf, in
its own statement, serves as "a shin-
in gexample in the international com-
munity of the imagination America
uses in dealing with its minorities."

Hailed by The New York Times
as "a gleeful production of a clas-
sic," NTD's performance ofAn Ital-
ian Straw Hat will sparkle on the
Lenfest Center stage this Monday at
8 p.m.

Tickets are $3.00 to members of
the Washington and Lee commu-
nity. For ticketing inquiries or addi-
tional information, contact the
Lenfest Center at 463-8000.

‘ established

 

Fishburn Ctark, a
tally‘ interested in

utsday,  5 at

. He's Kissing Christian, That

. Ms. Wrong, That Dog

. Happy Day, Blink

. Sidewinder, The Seymores
. J.A.R., Green Day

Tune into WLUR 91.5 week-
days, 4:00 to 5:45 p.m., for
these and all the rest of the
newest, on Breakthru shows.

TOP 5 CUTS, WEEK OF 9/25

Dog

between the lines

author bell hooks explores racism
in America in her Killing Flage

By Michael Hewlett

Pm STAFF Wmrrarz

Race has been a thorn in the side of
America ever since the first blacks

arrived at Jamestown in 1619. It haunts

our sensibilities, our normalcy, our

sense of security. No matter how hard
we attempt to delude ourselves and
convince ourselves that race has no

meaning anymore, that Martin Luther

King’s colorblind dream has been
achieved, that we have overcome,
something happens that shocks our sys-
tems and awakens us to the American
nightmare that Malcolm X talked about
almost 30 years ago. Rodney King gets
beaten; Fuhrman drops a racial epithet
(that he denied using during the past
ten years) about 41 times on a tape, and
“angry white males” complain about
the unfairness of affirmative action.
Usually, the voices on either side of the
debate are men, and rarely have the
voices of black women been heard or
even listened to. In her new book, Kill-
ing Rage: Ending Racism, bell hooks,
one of today’s leading black intellectu-
als, lends a feminist black perspective
on the burning issue of race.

In 22 essays, hooks rearranges the
conventional conversation about race

and embellishes it with a forceful, fierce

intelligence. In her first essay, she de-
scribes an experience she had with
racism when riding on an airplane and
the rage that consumed her:

“It was these sequences of
racialized incidents involving black
women that intensiﬁed my rage against
the white man sitting next to me. I felt
a ‘killing rage.’ I wanted to stab him
softly, to shoot him with the gun I
wished I had in my purse. And as I
watched his pain, I would say to him
tenderly "racism hurts.”’

This “killing rage” afflicts Afri-
can-Americans at one time or another.
It comes from the day-to-day experi-
ence ofbeingblackin
America. hooks ar-
gues that blacks
sometimes seek to
deny this rage, hold it
downintheirgutsand
force a smile in the
face ofthis subtle rac-
ism. They scek to ig-
nore it rather than em-
bracing the rage, ac-
knowledging it and
building something
constructive from it.

hooks explores
and dissects our popular culture and
relates it to the maintenance of what
she calls white supremacy and white
male patriarchy. On a number offronts,
she criticizes the women‘s movement
for its earlier failure to articulate the
clear connection between racism and
sexism. hooks also calls attention to
the sexism inherent in the black power
movement and its insistence that black
women remain subservient to black
menwhoconsiderthemselvestheonly

hooks

    

leaders within the African-American
community.

In another essay, hooks comments
on how racial integration, regardless of
its benefits, has had the unfortunate
result of making black people believe
that the only way to make it in America
was to embrace whiteness and forget
their culture and history. This is evi-
dent in a number of ways, particularly
the historical prevalence of African-
Amcrican churches, fraternities and
clubs that excluded
darker—skinned blacks.
But hooks exhorts the
need to move away
from victimization
while ﬁghting against
racism and argues for
the need to love black-
ness as resistance.

In the end, bell
hooks writes with an
urgency mixed with
provocative insights
and observations. In-
stead of chaining to-
gether long, impressive words, hooks
fills her pages with a passion that is
oftentimes missing from intellectual
thought. With all the voices blaring out
of our television sets and all the talk
about the plight of the black man, the
plightandthevoiceoftheblackwoman
needs to be heard and understood. In
the tradition of Sojourner Truth and
Angela Davis, bell hooks provides that
voice.

 

RING- TUM
PHI
SPECIAL
REPORT

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Walking home from class, he thought how
exhausted he was. The exam was the most
difficult the professor had ever given. He was
up all night cramming for that midterm and
enticing sleep was calling. He climbed the
steps to his fourth ﬂoor Graham-Lees dorm
room and shufﬂed down the hall. As he
fumbled for his key in the bottom of his
bookbag, he glanced at the bright blue writing
on his dry erase board. His mouth dropped
open in horror at what he saw. Scribbled in
large block letters was the word: NIGGERI

Not Just a Hollywood Problem

Most Washington and Lee University stu-
dents would view this scenario as something
reserved for pop culture movies. American
college students regularly view ﬁlms which
glamorize and put a Hollywood-spin on hate
crimes. Whether its following the trials of an
embattled Jewish prep school student (School
Ties) or watching Neo-Nazis mow down a
peace rally (Higher Leaming), hate crimes
are often removed from reality by movie
directors. Truth shows that hate-motivated
actions are not relegated to the realm of fic-
tion. Indeed, they play an all too important
role in daily college life. Acts of prejudice
run rampant on real-life college campuses
including that of Washington and Lee.

The accepted definition of a “hate crime”
is a crime, action, or behavior that are directed
at one person or a group of persons by another
person or group of persons that are motivated
by an intense dislike.

The hostility that exists on our campus is

— much more subtle than a John Singleton movie.

After all, no one is painting swastikas on Lee
Chapel or burning crosses in the Dell. The
nature of hate crimes at W&L are clandestine.
Surely, one would be wary of calling them
hate crimes at all. Usually, they do not
involve the breaking of any legal law. Hate-
related acts of harassment and hostility are
much more frequent at W&L than any viola-
tion of legal statute. However, they plague
our campus nonetheless. Often the perpetra-
tor is never caught; the victim rarely reports
the incident, and most students are unaware
of the scope of the problem. In this Ring-tum
Phi special report, we will uncoverthe hidden
rage and prejudice that persists on our cam-
pus and reminds us of a dangerous undercur-
rent that threatens our otherwise harmonious
coexistence.

This Party is Closed

Tear Night: W&L’s night of male bond-
ing and spilled beer. lt’s a night when most
students make a beeline for the fraternities to
enjoy the deafening music of local bands.
With spirits in hand, everyone all over the
campus gathers together to enjoy the revelry.

Well, almost everyone.

Last Saturday John Branam, President of
the Minority Students Association, was plan-
ning to join his fellow undergraduates in
celebration. However, he and three other
black students were denied entrance to one of
those parties. The brother at the door in-
formed them that the party was closed. He
told Branam that those inside were “friends”
and he wasn’t. Branam attributed the incident
to bigotry.

“lt amazed me. I tend not to think of
racism as the first motivation for rudeness,”
said Branam. “But I can think of no other
reason except for racial intolerance.”

Branam believes hate crimes occur on the
W&L campus, but not in the typical sense

most associated with the term. Rather than
blatant acts of aggression toward minorities,
the acts of hate are subtle and covert.

For example, Branam said when a group of
black students walk into a fraternity party, they
receive inquisitive looks.

“You’re looked at like they don’t want you
there,” he explained.

Branam said that “nigger” is common lan-
guage in some fraternity houses. The speaking
tradition also breaks down. He spoke of one
student ducking his head to avoid saying hello
to a black student.

“The things that occur everyday have much
more impact than abumingcross,” said Branam.
“That’s a single event than can be discussed and
analyzed.”

Less pronounced acts of hostility toward
blacks are difficult to quantify and therefore go
unchecked, said Branam.

Some incidents have been recognized , how-
ever

Dean of Students and University Mediator
Anece McCloud said in her eight years dealing
with hate crimes at W&L, two race-related acts
of aggression have occurred. Both were in the
dorms and involved threatening messages left
on doors of black students. The incidents were
reported to the administration.

“I don’t believe they occur that often,” said
McCloud.

Students who are bigoted against another
group generally ignore contact with that group
or person. The rule is avoidance rather than
confrontation, said McCloud.

Branam sees the picture differently. He
believes that there is a strong contingent of
W&L students who are intolerant of blacks.

Nonetheless, he said the MSA will actively
work to involve more students in this year’s
activities to promote better understanding.

Despite the presence of racial intolerance on
campus, the long-term prognosis for race rela-
tions is positive, according to Branam.

With the efforts of the MSA, there will be a
shift from a stagnant tension to better rela-
tions,” said Branam.

Unusual Circumstances

The first year sororities colonized on cam-
pus was a breakthrough time for Washington
and Lee women. They were launching a Greek
system for females that would hold paramount
the value of sisterhood.

One girl was refused membership from the
sisterhood. Not because she was dull or homely,
but because she was Jewish.

Professor Richard Marks, advisor to Hillel,
the Jewish group on campus, recalled the story.
The student went through Women’s Rush, but
was released under highly “unusual circum-
stances.” President Wilson was called to inves-
tigate. Evidently, the girl had received a nega-
tive reference from a woman in Houston who
recommended exclusion based on the girl’s
religion. The student withdrew from W&L the
following year.

“(Jewish students) aren’t unwelcome,” said
Peter Weissman, President of Hillel, “but, I
believe if there was more of a presence and
awareness on campus, we would all feel a lot
more comfortable.”

Weissman believes that some W&L stu-
dents are unaware of the many aspects of Jew-
ish culture. Nevertheless, he thinks that most
Jews are received well on campus.

As evidence, he cited most professors’ un-
derstanding that many Jewish students missed
class on Monday because of the holiday, Rosh
Hashanah. According to Weissman, the ad-
ministration is also sympathetic to many promi-
nent alumni of the 1950’s and 60’s who are
Jewish and remember their alma mater gener-
ously.

Despite that, Professor Marks continues to
receive phone calls from apprehensive parents
of prospective Jewish students.

Additionally, some students do run into ste-
reotypes.

Last year, Francie Cohen, a Jewish member

Special Report

of the Class of ‘95, wrote in a letter to The
Trident that Jewish students were prone to
hearing friends make derogatory comments
about their religion. She recalled one friend
who proudly said he had “J ewed someone down”
meaning to bargain aggressively. She also
remembered hearing students make fun of the
names of Jewish holidays because they were in
a foreign language.

Despite having to conform to the traditional
ways of the campus, most Jewish students do
not complain about anti-Semitism. Most agree
that Jews are widely accepted on campus and
not discriminated against.

“I consider myself very lucky,” said Marks.
“(W&L) is a nice place for Jews.”

Dubious Distinction

Washington and Lee has the eyebrow-rais-
ing distinction of being the 4th most homophobic
college in the country.

Homophobia is as common on this campus
as Dave Matthews t-shirts and fraternity par-
ties. Many students believe that this university
is simply no place for gay students, and they
promote attitudes of hatred toward them. The
hostile atmosphere makes the life of a gay
student very difﬁcult.

“There have been numerous campaigns
against gay students in the time l’ve been here,”
said Schroer-Lamont.

One such campaign included circulating a
ﬂyerthat listed suspected homosexuals on cam-
pus. Schroer-Lamont said the posters were
plastered all over the Hill, some even being
taped to sidewalks.

Steve Powell, Coordinator of the Commit-
tee on Gay and Lesbian Legal Issues, also
spoke of examples of anti-gay behavior at the
Law School.

The bulletin board on which the committee
places their posters was torn apart. Although,
he couldn’t attribute the incident to homophobia,
it’s rare that university bulletin boards are de-
faced.

Additionally, some Law School students
who were suspected of being gay were left
threatening messages in their carrels.

Despite these events, Powell “doesn’t see
much intolerance in the Law School.”

The undergraduate scene is a different story
altogether, according to Powell.

Powell pointed out that the University’s
discrimination policy does not include protec-
tion for people of different sexual orientations.

Washington and Lee is a tough place to
announce one’s sexuality because of the cli-
mate of homophobia, said Powell.

Openly gay students run the risk of being
excluded from fraternity life. They risk the
threat of physical danger and verbal abuse.

For example, a few years ago, one gay
alumni returned to his fraternity house for a
party. Words were exchanged, and a ﬁght
ensued. This is just one example of physical
intimidation directed toward gay students.

To confront the major obstacles facing gay
and lesbian students at W&L, a chapter of the
Gay And Lesbian Alliance was founded on
campus last year.

“We can combat the problem through edu-
cation,” said Powell.

Pictures on the Wall

It was Hell’s Angels night at the Boiler
Room. Everyone was decked out in their finest
biker apparel. The room was filled with spiked
hair, black leather boots and fake tattoos. The
party-goers were there to have fun.

Some female guests didn’t have fun, how-
ever. For when they arrived at the Boiler Room,
they found offensive graphic graffiti awaiting
them. Pictures of naked women involved in sex
acts plastered the walls. The night of good-
natured fun was shattered for them.

Some of the women reported the incident to
the administration. The Student Conduct Com-
mittee heard the case, and those responsible

   
 

Hate and Prejudice

at Washington and Lee

were reprimanded.

Blacks, Jews, and homosexuals are not the
only groups on campus to be targets of hate-
motivated behavior. Acts of hostility are di-
rected at W&L women as well.

With each incident, we are reminded that co-
education started only a short ten years ago.

Dean of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont
spoke of the occasion when anti—rape posters in
the C-School were destroyed.

Apparently, the perpetrator repeatedly wrote
offensive language on several of the posters.
The Student Health Committee had to continu-
ously replace the posters which was part of their
campaign against sexual assault.

Additionally, some women are the victims
of sexual assault and harassment -— the ulti-
mate manifestation of anti-women behavior.

Unlike most hate crimes, sexual misconduct
is included in the yearly report on campus
safety.

The Student Faculty Hearing Board is the
University committee which hears cases in-
volving sexual misconduct.

In the 1994-95 school year, three cases were
referred to the SFHB. McCloud, University
mediator, heard nine complaints. Of the three
that were referred to the SFHB, one case pro-
duced “no clear and convincing evidence that
sexual misconduct occurred.” One case found
a student guilty and suspended him for one
year. The ﬁnal case found the student guilty
and put him on social probation launching a
student uproar that demanded that rape be in-
cluded as an honor violation carrying the single
sanction of expulsion.

In another scenario, one female student had
a phone trap put on her incoming calls to screen
for a caller who had been harassing her. A
phone trap reveals to the receiver the phone
number of the caller.

Head of Security Mike Young said that there
were also two instances where female students
came to him because they were being called by
strangers. The callers would crudely solicit
them for sex. Young placed phone traps on
their telephones, and it was discovered that the
callers were actually Lexington residents.

Although they comprise nearly 40 percent
of the Washington and Lee population, women
students are as likely to be victims of hate
crimes as the much smaller minority groups.

Their superior size, however, has encour-
aged their coming together into groups to com-
bat such acts of hostility.

Ignorance and Isolation

What kind of person would hate so much
that he/she could be driven to acts of aggres-
sion?

It seems completely absurd, never minding
the fact that it violates General Lee’s civility
code.

“Prejudice is something that’s taught,” said
Schroer-Lamont. “If bigoted attitudes have
been reinforced by your family and commu-
nity, it becomes second nature.”

Not all perpetrators of hate crimes are taught
to hate. Peer pressure can also play a role in
encouraging acts of hostility.

“Students, who nonnally wouldn’t do it,
participate to go along with the group,” Schroer-
Lamont said.

They usually feel guilty afterwards, but the
rational thinking that would usually prevent
them from acting in the first place is replaced by
the group mentality.

Of course, alcohol can also induce other-
wise sober students to participate in dubious
behavior. Indeed, perpetrators of several hate
crimes, including sexual assault, are likely to
act while under the influence of alcohol.

Understanding the psychology of the perpe-
trator is helpful in studying hate crimes. how-
ever sympathy lies with the victim.

Acts of bigotry against a student often leave
that student feeling isolated and alone. The
next step for the victim might be anger.

The anger can be both positive and negative.
If he directs that anger into the proper channels

 

like seeking justice, good may come out of
the incident. However, if he acts irrationally
and retaliates with more negative behavior,
the outcome could be disastrous.

While formal surveys have yet to be done
at W&L regarding hate crimes, chances are
many go unreported.

Many students who have been targeted for
intolerance seek advice from University coun-
selors.

For instance, Schroer-Lamont said black
students have come to her describing dis-
crimination they received at social functions.”

Schroer-Lamont encouraged any students
who believe they have been victims of hate
crimes to seek help.

Seeking Retribution

The victim of hate-motivated hostility at
W&L has many different options in bringing
his perpetrator to justice.

One of the most common locations for
these types of incidents is the freshman donns
which has its own system of dealing with
these problems.

McCloud said that most cases that occur in
the freshman dorms are handled within the
dorms themselves.

The cases usually involve graffiti on one’s
door or threatening phone messages.

Head Domi Counselor Jason Ward ‘96
said it is difficult to catch the perpetrator of
most hate-related incidents. Usually, they
live on another hall or don’t even live in the
dorrhs;.. . ; -.1:   .

However, Ward does hold hall meetings
to discuss the incident after it happens.

Dean Dennis Manning said hate crimes
are “very infrequent” and “highly unusual.”

In his five years as Dean of Residence
Life, only one or two cases have been re-
ported to him.

Nevertheless, a victim can seek him out to
report incidents.

Additionally, the student could seek retri-
bution through McCloud, the Student Con-
duct Committee, the SHFB, and the Execu-
tive Committee. Each has their cwn method
of recourse ranging from a written letter of
apology to expulsion.

One could also report to Mike Young.

“They are rare and don’t really stick out in '

my mind as being particularly eventful,” said
Young. “But they do happen.”

“Because hatecrimes occur so infrequently
we don’t target it specifically in University
policy,” said McCloud. “We address it in the

general approach of promoting civility.”

Gentlemanly Conduct

One generalization that can be made about
hate crimes at Washington and Lee is that
they are usually hidden and subtle.

The examples don’t signify major dis-
cord, but they do hint at an undercurrent of
hostility and anger.

Another generalization is that administra-
tors tend to downplay the frequency with
which acts of hate occur.

Many did admit, however, that they may
not be as in tune with what goes on when their
backs are turned.

Students, on the other hand, were much
more likely and able to discuss examples of
prejudice that they had experienced.

When all new students go through fresh-
man orientation, they learn that W&L prides
itself as being a community which members
behave with civility towards one another.

Acts of hostility based on hate stand in
direct violation of this claim and leave many
students wondering why.

Despite this, most students and faculty
agree that Washington and Lee is basically a
peacable campus.

While there is ignorance and prejudice,
few are marred by these traits.

The Ring-tum Phi. September 29. 1995

771e yea/"book" needsfyou/4 help!

The Calyx is looking for a Photography Editor and staff.
If you are interested, call Jessica Antonich or Susie Stowell at 462-4046.

7

V

>2.

1’:

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

1 _, . .
@112 iamg-tum lﬂln
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
4 . Founded September 18, 1897

,Need for accessibility

On Monday, the National Theatre of the Deaf

I will perform in the Lenfest Center, proving that
persons with disabilities are every bit as capable as
able-bodied people.

K Many Washington and Lee students rarely think
of the myriad of problems facing the disabled.
After all, most are able-bodied and it is often
difficult to look past the daily reality of our own

3‘ lives. However, a few among us do live with those
disabilities we so often ignore.

What kind of concerns do they have? What

‘ barriers stand in their way? Imagine what it must
be like to be disabled.

W&L is not an accessible campus. Obstacles to

“ integrated living face disabled students every day.
Where are the elevators in the freshman dorms?
Where is the ramp granting access to those who use

A wheelchairs? Where are the braille signs directing
campus traffic for those with low or no vision?
Where are the assistive listening devices for the

2. hearing-impaired in lecture halls?

 Certainly, the University violates the spirit of the

Americans with Disabilities Act signed by
,. President Bush. This law guaranteed equal access
for all, but many institutions ignore that mandate.

_ Equal access is not a privilege, but a right. Not

everyone is born with functioning legs, eyes, or

ears. They deserve a right to participate in

American society, including access to education,

regardless of their disability.

Would W&L be so presumptuous as to deny
those citizens an equal right to education by leaving
their campus so grossly inaccessible?

Countless organizations and government
agencies exist to aid private institutions to become
more accessible. Whether it is financial or technical
support, they are there to help people with
disabilities. W&L needs to take advantage of these
groups.

* It embarrasses us to know that when the

performers of the National Theatre of the Deaf
arrive on campus three days from now, we will be

it ill-prepared to receive them.

Quote of the Week  

“Gee, they really do smell like they’ve been dried
in the sun.”
—-Freshman male discovers truth in
advertising on removing his first
1 batch of laundry from the dryer

OPINION

    
 

cui=.u<PoiNT

PAGE 5

MAN, TAILGATING
uusr ISN'T WHAT

IT USED To BE.

 

1,-U
/

it

’ ILIEMIDE. '
,1l@@

iﬂr

    

__;r —— rr
RPF
‘l-26

\W\--—- i‘ ——‘—-if ‘*--,<A/\c\*’1‘i{( M

Surveying slippery slope of outside
intervention in messy Bosnian crisis

 
 
   
 

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

From the very beginning of the
so-called Bosnian crisis, Western ob-
servers have misinterpreted the mo-
tivations of Bosnian Serbs.

Journalists in Sarajevo would
have us believe that the civil war
in the ex-Yugoslavia developed prac-
tically out of thin air, or (more likely,
according to them) out of the unpro-
voked malevolence and greed of
the Serb leadership.

What these journalists forget,
along with their UN comrades, is that
the Serb revolt in Bosnia has its ori-
gins in the foolhardy decision of the
international community to grant rec-
ognition to the Muslim-dominated
Bosnian state.

This recognition gave the borders
of “Bosnia” a superﬁcial legitimacy,
one that persists to this day in the
eyes of many Westerners, despite the
fact that the Bosnian state was cre-
ated against the will of many, if not
most, of its residents.

The heralded Wilsonian principle
of self-determination was not hon-
ored in Bosnia. The Bosnian Serbs,
in effect, were railroaded into a
scheme that was, to be sure, conve-
nient for tlfe Bosnian Muslims (and
their UN friends in New York); but in
the end this was an arrangement des-

tined to fail.

This error in the West’s
conceptualization of the Bosnian
crisis has recently been com-
pounded by what amounts to an ac-
tive military intervention on the part
of NATO on behalf of the Bosnian
Muslim government.

The recent punishing air attacks
on Serb positions in Central Bosnia,
while purportedly carried out to re-
lieve civilians in Sarajevo, have in
reality had a tremendous military-
strategic impact.

Muslims, along with their Croat
allies, who weeks ago controlled
only 30 percent of Bosnia, now oc-
cupy 55 percent.

Of course, since the UN/NATO is
superﬁcially disinterested, it has re-
peatedly warned Muslim forces not
to “take advantage” of NATO air
attacks, presumably by undertaking
new offensives against the Serbs. But
clearly this request has been ignored,
and clearly neither the international
community nor its counterpart, the
international press, is particularly in-
clined to care.

Serbs have been so thoroughly de-
monized that even Serbian civilian
refugees no longer evoke our sympa-
thy (if they ever did).

In the best case scenario, accord-
ing to the Clinton administration, a
compromise “peace” agreement will
soon be reached in Bosnia, and U.S.
troops will arrive shortly thereafter to
guarantee it.

What witches’ brew of potential
future conﬂict our soldiers may be

stepping into we cannot predict, of
course, but there are ample grounds
for pessimism. Serbs, Croats and
Muslims will all continue to nurse
their grievances, grounded as
these grievances often are in cen-
turies of history.

I can add further that I had the
pleasure this past spring, in my ca-
pacity as a Washington Term intern,
of sitting down
to lunch with

to mention manpower) to the protec-
tion of an obscure Muslim pseudo-
state was utterly unnecessary; but sec-
ond, because, insofar as we have in-
tervened in Bosnia, I am not so sure

that we have picked the right side.
That is, while both Serbs and Mus-.
lims are capable of barbarity and
meanness, there remains one crucial
difference between them: one side,
the Muslim gov-

ernment, fights

R i c h a r d _____..._.  alongside that
Holbrooke,who hateful world-
is now the prin- straddling body,
cipalU.S.nego- After all: when the UN; while the
tiator with re- R e p u b l l c a n s other side, that of
spect to the the Serbs, fights
Bosnian crisis. put'°°.proﬁ.ts.ahead of alone, proud, and
Hewasthemand  llvlng, and not for thc blood-
continues to be job creation ahead of less principles of

today, a fuzzy-
minded idealist,
enamored of the

traditional life and
values, they are not

status quo intema-
tionalism, but for
the dynamic, par-

same kind ofop—
timist, bleeding-
heart intema-
tionalism that
has gotten us
this far into
the Bosnian
mess already.

In short, if a transcendently
brilliant scheme for ending Balkan
bloodletting ever is formulated, I
doubt that it will be a product of Mr.
Holbro0ke’s labors.

Let me also say that 1 consider the
American role in the Bosnian inter-
vention a double tragedy: first of all,
because committing U.S. prestige (not

really

“conservative”;they
are being greedy.”

  free 

ticularistic prin-
ciples which are
the basis for
the health and
prosperity of all

being

There is a time
for togetherness, and there is a time
for separateness.

Unfortunately, it has taken NATO
and the UN four years of humiliation
and bloodshed to realize that the time
for togetherness has not yet come in
the Balkans.

The demon (or angel?) of ethnic
pride will have to be appeased for a
while longer.

@112 filing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor: Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Assistant News Editor Bethany Bauman
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Smtt Bookwalter
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Rnhert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord
Circulation Manager St ,‘ Williard

The Ring-rum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-nun Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’: edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Teleph -ue (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Lobbying bill threatens free speech

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

There were so many possibilities for writing a
column this week: welfare reform, the possibility
that the GOP will not extend the debt ceiling and
cause the end of civilization as we know it (accord-
ing to some), and the founding of the Independence
Party by Ross Perot.

These are all getting good play in the news, so I
decided to write about something that was in the
news for a short while and directly affects one of our
most basic rights as citizens: the proposed lobbying
restrictions for non-profit organizations.

At first glance it seems like a great idea. I don’t
want my tax dollars going to support the National
Conference of Bishops and their attempts to limit
abortion. You probably do not want the gun control
lobby to get your money to lobby for stricter restric-
tions on the manufacture of armor-piercing bullets.

There is a bit more to the bill than this, however.
If it simply said that non—profit organizations could
not use any of the money they get from the govern-
ment to lobby the government that would be a
reasonable limitation. But the potential restriction is
on all funds raised by that group, including the
money that the average citizen sends in to support
that group. Under one proposal, groups would be
limited to using five percent of their funds for
lobbying purposes.

There are a couple of faults in this as far as
I can see.

First of all, under this proposal, the government
is not only limiting the right of the organizations to
lobby, it's restricting the rights of a citizen to lobby.
Suppose I send in my check to the National Abor-
tion Rights Action League in support of their efforts
to keep abortion legal. I am doing this in the hope
that through lobbying they will push the same goals
that I want but do not have the time to lobby

for myself.

Unfortunately, if the organization has already
spent ﬁve percent of its budget on lobbying, they
may not be able to represent my interests and those
of other members at crucial moments. My money is
therefore not being used as I wanted it to be.

The Republicans make a big deal of taking away
restrictions on people——and now they are infringing
on basic First Amendment rights.

In interfering with freedom of speech, they take
away one of the aspects that makes America great.
The founders based our
government on the idea
that there would beaplu-

have complaints against specific aspects of Repub-
lican policy? One suggestion to the Republicans: If
you can’t deal with a little questioning, get out
of Congress.

We need these interest groups to keep track of
what is going on in Congress because there are way
too many things for the average citizen to keep track
of, even if they want to be informed.

For example, a little while ago the House de-
feated, by a sizable majority, a bill that would have
created a National Parks review board to determine
what national parks
could be sold out of the
system. Last week its

rality of interests that
would be heard at the
national level. This was
to prevent the tyranny of
the majority and make
sure the interests of the

people are kept at the major

66

There 's something not right
about having a bill that was
openly turned down by a
of Congress

sponsor managed to at-
tach it to an appropria-
tions bill sothatthe pos-
sibility of defeating it is
greatly reduced. This
despite that fact that it
was already defeated in

forefront. By restricting
the ability of non-proﬁt
organizations to lobby
and represent the inter-
ests of the citizens, they
are opening a way to
majority tyranny.
Another complaint I

reappearing in a different
form so that it cannot really
be voted on just because a
congressman could not deal
with his idea not being
approved by the majority of

a perfectly open and
proper floor vote.
There’s something
not right about having a
bill that was openly
turned down by a ma-
jority of Congress reap-
pearing in a different

have about this proposal
is how blatantly biased
it is. Companies like Ar-
cher Daniels Midland
and Weyerhaeuser re-
ceive billions of dollars a year in federal subsidies;
yet they are not restricted in the amount of money
they can spend lobbying the government either
through direct legislative inﬂuence or contributing
to the war chests of various legislators. I’m willing
to bet that the amount of federal funds that these
giant companies get is many times that of all the
non-profit agencies combined.

Maybe I’m picking on the Republicans unfairly,
but could this restraint in lobbying be because many
of the non-profits, even the Conference of Bishops,

people.

 

form so that it cannot
really be voted on just
because a congressman
could not deal with his
idea not being approved
by the majority of people.

A final thought on Perot’s third party (actually
fourth party; I think the Powell for President group
could qualify as a third party): perhaps their goals
would be better realized if they worked within the
two parties to pick nominees whose goals match
theirs, and turning out people to vote. Maybe then
there would actually be candidates that people liked
and there would be a President who was actually
elected by the majority of Americans instead of the
minority of people who actually vote. -

 

    

PAGE 6

OPINION

Products could bring in da bigbucks

GREEN LAND ‘
Betsy Green

Not long ago, various campus or-
ganizations asked the EC for money.
Not suprisingly, some of us wish we
had more money.

I know the EC is like one big
khaki-wearing Santa Claus and would
love to ﬁnd more money so that each
and every good little campus organi-
zation can have all of the goodies they
want. All they need is to be a little
more enterprising. Heck, the EC has
too much to do anyway, so why not
add fund-raising to their list of tasks?
Besides, the merchandise l’m sug-
gesting will sell itself!

*ACLU Punching Bags. Since my
beloved page editor Alex was presi-
dent of the ACLU, I am probably
getting myself into trouble by sug-
gesting this, but a simple inﬂatable
punching bag with an ACLU logo
would sell out in no time. By denying
them money every single year, the
EC has been unofficially using the
ACLU as a punching bag for quite
some time. And most of the other
W&L students will leap at some good
old-fashioned conservative fun.

*Parking Ticket Gift Certificates.

What better gift for your loved ones
than the chance to park illegally?
Parking ticket gift certificates will be
the W&LequivilantofGetOutofJail
Free cards. On another law enforce-
ment note, what kid wouldn’t love a

five rookie cops possibly compare to
Chief Beard? Can’t you just see stu-
dents swapping cards in the Co-op
during lunch? “l’ll trade you a Baner
for your Mike Young.” “Throw in
Shannon and you've got yourself

set of... a deal.”

*Law En- *W&L—De-
forcement Trad— C C signed Bowties.
ing Cards. In my The EC could
hometown of Since my beloved makeakillingby
Moline, Illinois . usingthefashion
(City of ATliou- Page edltor Alex was sense of W&L
sand Forpiddlen president of the pcrlofessors and
Deli hts , t e a ministrators.
new agiid probably  I am pr Deans Manning,
ineffectiveway to getting myself lntO Gtkins, algd

et kids to ' owisonandt e
jgustsaynotodrugs trouble by suggestlng ever-spiffy Pro-

is to give the little
buggers Moline

this, but a simple
inﬂatable punching

fessor Holiday
could follow in

Police Depart~ - thestepsoflerry
merit trading bag with an  Garcia by de-
cards. Just like logo wouldsell out ln signing their
baseball cards, ' own lines of
they feature our no tlme' bowties. Of

men in blue,
posed with their
patrol cars, or better still, members of
the K9 unit. This concept would
clearly do well here in Lexington, for
both police officers and W&L Secu-
rity. Naturallly, some cards will be
more rare than others; how can the

course, it can’t
be too hard to
design solid colors and simple
red stripes.

*Leticia Pate Evans Dining Hall
Microwaveable Dinners. Just because
you don’t have the full meal plan any
more is no reason not to enjoy the

scrumptious delights of D-hall. Take
home a hearty plate of fish-shaped
bits, potatoes, lima beans, and the
classic D—hall dessert: Jell-O! I hear
you can get a deal on the Taco
Bar meal.

‘W&L Faculty Lollipops. For
when you need to‘ suck up to your
professor before a test. I can’t believe
I just wrote that. Have I no shame?
Apparently not, in light of my
next suggestion...

‘Men of the EC calendar. We all
know that one of the chief reasons so
many women bought copies of the
Southern Comfort CD last year was
because of the, uh,*cover art. I ’m sure
that all women on campus are aware
that the men we have entnisted with
preserving our Honor System are a
rather, shall we say, talented group of
young men. Last year the EC came
under some criticism for being so (to
use yet another euphemism) busy.
Students won’t ﬁnd them quite so
intimidating once they’ve seen
their representatives posed on a
bearskin rug.

Men, you ask, what about
EC woman Amy Gotham? Well,
someone has to be in charge
of merchandising. ‘

Hey, maybe
a photographer.

need

they

Announcing. . .'

The Ring-tum Phfs new e-mail address:

ph1'@W1u.edu

Use The Phfs new e—mail address to
send letters to the editor, items for
General Notes, or story ideas.

PR 1 N C I P l.‘ li 3...»,/"

    

SO U NI)

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

\

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Hong Kong

Join W&L’s exchange program
with Chung Chi College of the Chi-
nese University of Hong Kong be-
ginning Sept. 1996. No Chinese lan-
guage skills are required. Courses
are in English; you pay W&L fees
and earn W&L credits. Contact Pro-
fessor Hill or Professor Rogers in
the East Asian Language Oenter(Red
House) for more information.

Law School Day

W&L students are invited to at-
tend Law School Day at the Univer-
sity of Virginia on Thursday, Oct. 5,
1995. Law School Day will take place
from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Newcomb
Hall Ballroom on the UVA campus.

Mock Convention

Mock Convention is looking for
a student interested in the Internet,
Home Pages and computing. Inter-
ested students should call 462-4057.

Outdoor Program

The Outdoor Program is spon-
soring kayaking lessons this term.
Lessons are held Wednesday nights
8-10 p.m. in the small pool in the
gym (near the equipment check-out
booth). For more information call
463-5947 or 463-5776.

Parents Weekend

Parents Weekend 1995 will take
place Oct. 27 and 28. Student lead-
ers whose organizations plan to spon-
sor special Parents Weekend events
which will be open to all parents and
students should contact Michelle
Richardson, Student Activities Co-
ordinator, in the University Center
no later than Sept. 29.

Career Test

There will be a career test inter-
pretation on Monday, Oct. 2 at 4
p.m. in Room 108 of the University
Center. All students who have taken
the Interest Tests and not had them
interpreted need to attend. See Ms.
Saunders in Career Development to
sign up to attend this session.

Degree applications

Undergraduate degree applica-
tions for the Class of ’96 are due no
later than Monday, Oct. 2, 1995.
Applications for degrees must be
filed with the University Registrar’s
Office on or before June 1, if the
degree is to be taken in December, or
on or before Oct. 1, if the degree is to
be taken the following June. Late
applications will be subject to a $25
penalty and will not be accepted
after Jan. 15, 1995. Registrations
and transcripts will be held until an
application is ﬁled. Questions should
be directed to Scott Dittman, Uni-
versity Registrar, orleannettelarvis,
Assistant Registrar, at 463-8455.

Film Society

Washington and Lee’s Film So-
ciety will present the Cuban film
Strawberry and Chocolate, in Span-
ish with English subtitles, tonight
and Saturday, Sept. 30 at 8:05 p.m.
in the Troubadour Theater. There is
no charge for admission and the pub-
lic as well as the W&L community
are invited.

Practice interviews

Seniors may sign up for video-
taped practice interviews in the Ca-
reer Development and Placement Of-
fice. There are two more days of prac-
tice interviewing this term: Wednes-
day, Oct. 25 and Thursday, Nov. 9.

R Ii 1' l R li M ii i\' 'l’

l.\l\-'i'IS'l'll\'(,} \

EVERYONE WILL GIVE YOU
THEIR TWO CENTS WORTH, BUT WILL
THAT BE ENOUGH TO RETIRE ON?

oday there seems to be an investment expert
or financial advisnr almost everywhere you
turn. But just how qualilied are all these experts?
Peace ofmind about your future comes from
solid planning. I“i*om in vestrncnts and services
designed and managed with your needs and
retirement security specifically in mind. The kind of
investments and services TIIXA-CRIEF has been

For you.

expense charges are among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries.’ That means
more of your money is where it should be—working

'l‘IAA~CREF is now the largest private pension
system in the world, based on assets under
managementmianaging more than $145 billion in
assets for more than one and a half million people

A Bistro

=
:9
v-:
5"

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

9 am - 3 pm - Spnday

   

I

I

Is

I

I

I

I

I

I

: Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad

: All you can eat $4.99

I

I

: Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID
I

E Friday - Seafood Nite -

u Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
: Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib,

: 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

I

 

19

. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 E

 
 
  

providing for more than 75 years.

WE'LL HELP YOU BUILD
A REWARDING RE'I‘IREMEN'I‘.

Our counselors are trained retirement
professionals who have only you and your future in
mind. So you’re treated as the unique person you
arc, with special needs and concerns about
retirement. And that makes For an understanding,
coinllortable relationship.

With 'l‘IAA~CREF, you have plenty of choice
and ﬂexibility in building your retirement nest egg-
iroin TIA/\'s guaranteed traditional annuity to the
investment opportunities ol‘ CREF's seven variable
annuity accounts. And we're nonproﬁt, so our

0 L995 Tear‘:/‘.4 In.wnui.'( Jan‘ /In/m,<Lr_y .&<.wriai{.-u .~"(‘u1i‘:3¢r Rzrthmml F4m.ri':.- Fwiéi.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

throughout the nation.

TIAA-CREF:
THE CHOICE THAT MAKES SENSE.

It's tough to wade through all the "advice" to
find a reliable pension plan provider. But as at
member ofthe education and research community,
your best choice is simple: TIAA-CREF. Because
when it comes to helping you prepare for.
retirement, our annuities will add up to more than
spare change.

For more information about how TIAA-CREF
can help you prepare for the future, call our
Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.

Whiundzvdﬂ‘ Pinrlnlnounnu H»;-u A-ml.-.‘ INK-linnu-A-nlu~uI.I-tuna. la I’-u.g.h'u-u...‘ A._.I . In . --4 In

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH
with America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!
Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-
DENT TRAVEL (800) 95-BREAK!

Kestaurant and
 9-[o65ie’sLounge

  

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center

Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun
and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers,

Parties, and Morel Organize a small group and earn a

FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

DISCOVER
HOW QUIRKY
WE ARE!

POETRY MAGNETS

400 magnetic: words
for refrigerator srmnets.

ELVIS VOTIVES

Dine by candlelight
with the king.
MOUSE PADS
Mona Lisa. Water 1..i1ies.
Wm Gog/t suri_/Yowers.
I.')ie-cut cat. (...'reatI'on.
Hershey chocolate bar
Grateﬁll Dead.

'1 he Scream.

VENUS 8: DAVID

Disrobe them. Dress them.
New build-a—viIla.

FROG CHARMS

Good luck and pmxperity.
And maybe a prince.

DRIP CANDLES

Atmosphere in a
Chianti’ bottle.
POSTCARD HUMOR
500 titilating titles.
Mail them. Frame them.
Get a good laugh.

FISH PENS

Better than rubber duckies.
and they write.

caravans

/X” ll. ,‘.‘c:3‘o!i Sin./I 0404’ .75”?!
:'):u.5' 10am »- épm o SuIuI'u)'S I fr!/it -3?!”
UPS to your home or uﬂice

 

I ‘ msveserved ’
iangervnoes, Inc

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

    

PAGE 7

. ADVERTISING

TODPY I RM AN
EXPERT IN’-

LEHMAN by Andrew Lehman

 

 

 

@1995 David Mme: Al
Drsl by Tribune Med

mm“ ‘gcmm ugiaos\R°]i£xL1ucr§t£°
'n'.L=vi4.ioN' resaseui aowvweaﬁwv "1'?
"row-new mm{ mm M5 '°“-. .v\NE<=N?
‘g>,¢1—g‘ 'g'gas' '3cuvu,i:' oeoi 'm‘.°sN:s'
<oN>uTc.ﬁ$ 'i>u»aNs' '€ooD° '9H’“°N°
’ New u?<J9U6ﬂ°NT0RY°0\|6TvH?LV'9N5

 
     
 
     

     

‘M5 Meowabn mar vnrr-5 saw?

   
 

Heu_o,J0A~?...Hi,THI6 I9 DAVE...
REMEMBER ME FROM s»<rH GRAPE?

   
 

YEAH, WELL i'vEC1<7T A BUNCH OF
ow LETTERG HERE etc-.~Eo
/ "LOVE ALwAY6'.’,.

       
 

¢’ wgu, How ABOUT IT?

\ ,,  You MEAN IT?
I .. , /

  
 
 

vm/v HaADAcI/E
0

 
    

eises
DISL

'rHEY SAio...v~/ELL, wE mo THE
eesr JOB wE couw izméwe You...

 

.”A‘,. 7/
/’ /r
//

  
  

,— /" \‘

DavidM|| All ms" elf//;\“\ 
net. reserv ,«

byTribuneMedia"Serviees, Inc r,’.’',....‘‘ x

 

 

  
  
 

HE DIDN'T LIKE THE wAY
‘SOME GUY PA9$ED HIM...6O
HE WAS CHA-4,-ING HIM.

   

    
 
   
 

Good Luck Generals

Welcome Parents and by

  Alumni

Marlene’s Hairstylist

 

Conveniently located to campus in the historical

district at 25 N. Main Street

463-6003

Men’s and Women’s Cuts, Styling, Perms,

MAnicures, Foil Highlighting, Acrylic Nails,

Pedicures, and Facials
Walk-ins welcome or call for an appointment

Hairstylists: Marlene, Cindy, Robin, Bobbi,

Rebecca
Our Manicurist: Crystal Floyd

VIZMNC1 UNDER 17-IE INFLUENCE‘
OF T E9T06TERoNE 1/.’
w .

 

Lexington 0-[air Desgn
(Next to the fitness Center)

‘Would like to welcome all students to stop By and visit
Stepﬂanie, Roﬁin, andﬂlnn for aflyour haircare needs.
.’1{ours are Monday -‘Z7iuri{a_y 9:00 - 5:30
friday 9:00 - 5:00
Saturday 9:00 - 12:30

 

W o199s_Tmxno Mada Services. Inc.
Alﬁmts Reserved.

t-Hf

 

‘ ‘k\\\KL. _

  

NEW; N\EDll-\
ECON°N\lce. 101,"

 

  
 
 

wow! GPEEVINC7  AND

spew maul In '|$!G
nv ‘Jenn . 90 96616}
___

aui ‘sec; 2
‘pa/iiasailgfzggi

  

   

«snze§9—iz:.=uEvme'
TEcHNiauE «W5
‘ I

( _:L_

   

   
 

'\ MEETNG
i \O A1“-

  

6
I \
V /
IE1

O|995DavldMi|or.Al' reserved. .
Distb/Tii7unaMedia ‘ ,Inc.,%/4.73:2

.s.s.e. Démtez awe:

at 97/2 ﬁeaauouuae
/Q72 7%?! Je‘ Oﬁeot to‘ cm

(ex<:oﬁ«t%e(a4t7’Xaotdaqafe¢e4mao¢t4)
egg.-W-.., 04460: 2.1995

Wow»: Scandal; £4/w ‘74wzod4q 5:30 ﬁne - 7:00 ﬁat
Date in ac game-0:41!

gafjettotcladed  3¢hd gala. gaéealgzecad.
24¢4wz€eatZ3e¢oea¢'¢.aowl/444a¢ted3’eaoza9e4

       
     
     
       
   
 

em $5. 95. ma. emu $ 5. 75. €4(Z4uo¢ /00714440» $2. 95

*************************************************

¢W.2c'¢a;ze»ga¢Jae¢.é;a4:7Itao:dax,t4w7'té¢4‘i
Xam- //am
eu:d(:a¢c47Itaa¢dac;t4w‘7u’daz;, ,,¢l0¢'2ﬂ0¢«
Dateaoméautyaat
eaaéeéeaéuituaozuegeaaut

**********************************************

 
       
     
 

.
«
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Your Student
Go Hungry

  

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for

Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner
For only $90.00

Nutritious Mu ins & Eg Specialties
Fresh alads & oups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

Harbs’

ashington St., Lexington, A ‘4450

W

19

 

   

 
  

Valley 

Walﬁ-ins welcome a’ 
 HARDWARE STORES HALLOWEEN
Hardware, Paint, and Related Items CREATE A °°ST”"E
ﬁuffman_Warz  To Get the Best . . . See us Soon!
4-51 6. Nelson Street - loexington. V1‘! 465-9152 0P9“ M011 ' Sat 3330 a-m- ' 6 P-m- 5119- 1 ' 5 P-m- September 29:11 through End of October
Wg acegpt major Crgdit cards  N6lSOIl St., Lexington  .

Call us for gout homecoming flowers

, Stonewall Jackson Hospital

THRIFT "SHOP

‘€

he

I16

‘gab. 

\$

. ‘ -

I  iY0Bl't7__‘cR£l)I‘£. cniias. .aae...: ItA,I_.'.fl8(i!_

Sean has cmiroamunav , g

 

BIG WEEKENDS,
GRADUATION...
Rent a House for the price of a

motel room!
463-5350 or (703)978-2416

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH  GQ
FREE!!! Student Travel Services is
now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Da tona and Panama City Beach.
Ca l 1-800-648-4849

 

 

‘  The Ringgum Phi, September 29, 1995

la  W __ 

   

Will your company grow as fast as you do?

Almost every company's re- Over the last five years, while between getting ahead. And
cruiting ad promises you rapid economic conditions stalled banging your head.
growth. But before making any many organizations, Andersen  

decisions, ask them how fast Consulting averaged 20% growth 

they're growing. After all, you're per year Compare that figure

going to have trouble moving up to any other firm you're consider- 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN II CD, S.C.

if your company isn’t. ing. It could be the difference

©1992 Andersen Consulting. An equal opportunity employer.

We look forward to meeting you at these campus events:
Presentation: September 29th, 4-6 pm ‘
I 14 University (_‘1ei1lei‘
Last Day of Resume Drops: ()ctol)cr 18th
Campus Interviews: November 13th

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

H 3|’ HS TGGIBI
MEANS LOW PRICES

Premier Selection
Ripe
Tomatoes

3

   
 
     

I

‘Harris Teeter Crusty
Round

A  __16 oz.99¢ 
Bu One Ruffles

ot_a to
, Chips

‘:_
W &ltl‘\l%lW"f"'*='..
 !i+l  Get One Like Item

1     A fee

All Natural Hunter 2/ Harris Teeter

lc$grOgeam__ 1/2 gal. 00 Wéallrf ._s9¢I

* Buy One Texas Twist

  Pretzel

And Get One

49

loaf

  
 

  

»~ A’
|\'»‘..'.'_ l

    
    

 
      
 
  

b

P

Soft Drink Feature

 
   

6 Pk. 20 Oz. NRB

Coke Or Diet
Co

Buy One 9 Oz.

Marie Qallenders
Pizza

And Get One

A

ke

 

 

Selected Varieties
Ban

Roll-On

Selected Varieties
. Tropicana

Twister 45 oz.

President’s _Choice Garden St '6
Natural Spring 3/

=4.’ Watel'___5o.7o oz. 00 gagllilzaes :28-30 02- 
1 Prices Effective Through October 3.1995

‘ ‘ Th" Ad Eff t‘ W d (1 ,Se tember 27 Through October 3, 1995‘
X Prgrétﬁl/rtle Ftlgserve 1?ll:eNF‘tiighl3T<r3‘ 'l_SimllyQual:ttities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept ’rederal Food Stamps.

39 79

2.5 oz.

1

 

SPORTS

    

Virginia Yoerg
Volleyball

The junior middle blocker Yoerg has been a
stone wall for the Generals the entire season.

Lately, though, she has picked up her pace even
more. Against Randolph-Macon Women's College
on September 19, she smashed the all-time W&L
blocks record with three, giving her 127 for her
career. She also totalled up eight kills in the match.

Yoerg was instrumental in the slim victory over
Roanoke on September 21. She pounded home
twenty kills to compliment another three blocks.

Yoerg kept it going Wednesday at Bridgewater,
as she collected twelve kills and six blocks.

The junior's standout play is a key reason that
W&L has zoomed out to an 8-1 record in 1995.

    

Robert Hull
Football

Remember that green~colored monster named the
Incredible Hulk, whose brute strength would terror-
ize people on his TV show? The Generals have the
Incredible Hull,who instead dresses in blue and likes
to pummel quarterbacks on the football ﬁeld.

The senior defensive tackle added to his legend at
W&L Saturday in the Generals‘ 7-7 tie with Centre.
He amassed an amazing ﬁve sacks against Centre QB
David Clark, who was dumped a total of nine times
by the Generals. With his sacks, Hull broke the
career sack record with 24. His seven sacks this year
have already matched his entire 1994 total.

On top of that, the All-American counted up
fourteen tackles, three of which went for losses.

3)’ the Numbers

 

AFC
East W L PCI‘
Miami 3 0 1.000
Buffalo 2 1 .667
New England 1 2 .333
Indianapolis 1 2 .333
N.Y. Jets 1 3 .250
Central
Cleveland 3 1 .750
Cincinnati 2 2 .500
Pittsburgh 2 2 .500
Houston 2 2 .500
Jacksonville 0 4 .000
West
, Kansas City 3 I .750 ,._-,
Oakland 3 1 .750
San Diego 3 1 .750
Denver 2 2 .500
Seattle I 2 .333
NFC
East W L PCT
Dallas 4 0 1.000
Arizona 1 3 .250
Philadelphia 1 3 .250
Washington I 3 .250
N.Y. Giants 1 3 .250
Central
Green Bay 3 I .750
Chicago 2 2 .500
Minnesota 2 2 .500
Tampa Bay 2 2 .500
Detroit 1 3 .250
West
St. Louis 4 0 1.000
San Francisco 3 1 .750
Atlanta 3 1 .750
Carolina 0 3 .000
New Orleans 0 4 .0()0
Lxsr WEEK'S RESULTS
(HOME TEAM IN CAPS)

ST. LOUIS 34, Chicago 28
TAMPA BAY 14, Washington 6
N.Y. GIANTS 45, New Orleans 29
Minnesota 44, PITTSBURGH 24
CLEVELAND 35, Kansas City 17
Houston 38, CINCINNATI 28
SAN DIEGO 17, Denver 6
ATLANTA 13, N.Y.Jets 3
DALLAS 34, Arizona 20
OAKLAND 48, Philadelphia 17
Green Bay 24, JACKSONVILLE 14
DETROIT 27. San Francisco 24 (Mon.)

(Carolina, Seattle, Miami, Buffalo, New England,
and Indianapolis had open dates.)

SUNDAY '5 GAMES

New England at Atlanta 1PM
Miami at Cincinnati 1PM
Dallas at Washington 1PM
Tampa Bay at Carolina 1PM
St. Louis at Indianapolis IPM
Philadelphia at New Orleans IPM
Kansas City at Arizona 4PM
Jacksonville at Houston 4PM
San Diego at Pittsburgh 4PM
Denver at Seattle 4PM
N.Y. Giants at San Francisco 4PM
Oakland at N.Y.Jets 8PM

(Open date: Chicago, Minnesota, Green Bay, Detroit)
MoNnAv's GAME

Buffalo at Cleveland 9PM

K

GENERALS’ UPCOMING HOME
SCHEDULE 9/29 - 10/5

Saturday, 9/30 Water Polo in W&L EWPA
Tournament. 1:00 PM
Men’s Soccer vs. Eastern
Mennonite, 1:00 PM
Tuesday, 10/3 Men’s Soccer vs. Hampden~

Sydney, 4:00 PM
Volleyball vs. Lynchburg, 6:30 PM
Women's Soccer vs. Sweet
Briar, 4:30 PM

Wednesday, 10/4

 mﬂMu
American League
East W L PC!‘ GI!
x-Boston 83 57 .593 ---
N.Y. Yankees 76 65 .539 7.5
Baltimore 68 73 .482 15.5
Detroit 60 81 .426 23.5
Toronto 56 85 .397 27.5
Central
x-Cleveland 97 44 .688 ---
Kansas City 69 71 .493 27.5
Chicago W.S. 66 74 471 30.5
Milwaukee 64 76 .457 32.5
Minnesota 55 86 .390 42
West
Seattle 76 64 .543 ---
Califomia 74 66 .529 2
Texas 72 68 .514 4
Oakland 67 73 .479 9
National League
East W L PC!‘ GB
x-Atlanta 90 51 .638 ---
Philadelphia 68 73 .482 22
N.Y. Mets 66 75 .468 24
Montreal 65 75 .464 24.5
Florida 65 75 .464 24.5
Central
x-Cincinnati 82 58 .586 ---
Houston 74 66 .529 8
Chicago 71 69 .507 l I
St. Louis 60 80 .429 22
Pittsburgh 57 84 .404 25 5
West

Los Angeles 76 65 .539 ---
Colorado 75 65 .536 0.5
San Diego 69 72 .489 7
San Francisco 65 75 .464 10.5

x - denotes division winner

Wnn Cum RAC:
AL
N.Y. Yankees 76 65 .539 ---
California 74 66 .529 1.5
Texas 72 68 .514 3.5
NL

LDS Angeles 76 65 .539 ---
Houston 74 66 .529 1 .5

THUllsDAY'S GAMES:

NL
Houston at Chicago C., night
Cincinnati at Montreal, night
San Francisco at Colorado, night

AL

Cleveland 12, MINNESOTA 4
Boston at Milwaukee, night
Chicago W.S. at Kansas City, night
Seattle at Texas, night

Oakland at California, night

THIS wEEK£ND'S GAMES:

Boston at Milwaukee, Fri-Sun
N.Y. Yankees at Toronto, Fri-Sun
Kansas City at Cleveland, Fri-Sun
Seattle at Texas, Fri-Sun
Minnesota at Chicago W.S., Fri-Sun
Detroit at Baltimore, Fri-Sun
Oakland at California, Fri-Sun

Philadelphia at Florida, Fri-Sun
Atlanta at N.Y. Mets. Fri-Sun
Houston at Chicago C., Fri-Sun
Cincinnati at Montreal, Fri-Sun
Pittsburgh at St. Louis, Fri-Sun
San Francisco at Colorado, Fri-Sun
Los Angeles at San Diego. Fri-Sun

END OF REGULAR SEASON

 

 

Last Week:

@111: ﬂing-mm iﬁlri

This Week:

vou.zmu.- Fri.-Sat. .t Gettysburg Clusic; ‘hm. VS. Lynchburg. 6:30 PM;

Vou.l:\'nAu.- L, 15.3, 15-3,8-15, 11-15, 7-15, atBridg9water F _ s“_‘:"_~“l;_mP'i'|_’)“_"_:"_'M'¥-1:§;,3‘}’,h*;”

Msooclm - L. 30. at Virginia Wesleyan; W. 2-0. at Guilford Msorxuh 80!. vs. Eastern Mennonite. 1:00 PM-.

WSOCCKR - W, 8-0, vs. RMWC ‘hue. vs. Hnmpden-S_ydncy.4:00 PM

MCnoss Couwmv - Finished second at Dickinson Open W5°W'-'- 5-K It R-I-dolph-MA°on.12=00 Noon:

WCnoes Cowmr - Finished ninth at Dickinson Open M. wow‘ cow‘  Elam“ 10:00 AM

F°°"3*“-‘-' Tv 7‘7- "3- CW’-"9 _ wnmm Fri.-Sun. at Rolex Regional (M.Bnldvin), &00AM

G’-our - Finished third in W&L Fal1C|as81c WATII Pow- But. in war. EWPAToumnment,1:00 PM

PAGE 10 FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY SEPTEMBER 29, 1995

   
 
  

half on their5wa"y. to
28 thumping of a* haif
ce!itAIiZ0I.13j3I:=i ’

    
 
    
 
 
      
   
    
   
 

, Q .;;$pux_r2
I lowingstartin‘g.Q‘BD
Wuerffel to stillbe 
I ing touchdownip
when the Gators we '
on their way, to
crushing offT_eit§r§e
‘D a tgelll is V ,
Rutherfo'rd,fiAU,iI§;Sep,, 23
 With a,co"rnfo’rt,able5V
lead ‘over Rutgers, 3 '
State backup ‘Q 
McQueary airs :lipf‘af
pass inside of Ehe‘gam ,
final minute. »:» Rutge‘,
coach Doug Graberf,
less than thrilledggrid?
PSU coach Joe 
after the game.,',l‘Iiis_ca
fa week after,?en’n‘- S
c1obbered_Ten1pIe,g66.*

 

  
   
 
   

 ﬁdowns. £0 ¢1f<.>s"e{t.
 ‘ margin to 35-29‘ 3
 V.cansethefin'al at

  
       
  
  
    

 1 more coaches like
1 arerightfullrz .. f nia
~rita:ed that theirt ms
. .- not-..<>nIy. gett‘
 ‘hurniiiatedr ;
,__.‘3constitutes_ ‘
 score, thong

 
     

bii¢I%np°52B‘tot>as§ 
ing a ﬁeld goat o’
" and tong, 

    

   
   
  
 
  

 singlevictories’,’te_A if 
, aiways have ince,
score at wiilg.  __

A * anti} the systegn‘:‘ch2in'gVV
cl 77pointswi11_‘rrotjustre£
 to 3 basketbailsqhre

Generals end in 7-7 deadlock

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Sometimes a tie is just about
as good as a win.

True, the Generals had a shot
to win at the end of this past
Saturday’s game, but their hopes
were dashed when junior Drew
Thomas’s 53-yard ﬁeld goal at-
temptwasblocked,leavingW&L
in a 7-7 deadlock with visiting
Centre College.

Thomas’s previous career
long was a W&L school-record
47-yarder.

Still, a tie was quite an ac-
complishment for the Generals,
considering Centre returned
eighteen starters from an 8-2 team
last season. The Colonels had
blanked the Generals last year in
Kentucky, 17-0.

This year’s game was a low-
scoring defensive struggle from
the outset. Games such as those
usually bring out the best in Rob-
ert Hull, and Saturday's contest
was no different.

The senior All-American de-
fensive tackle came into the game
needing only two sacks to break
the school sack record. By the
end of the contest, Hull had
smashed another school record -
the one for most sacks in a game
as he hammered Centre quarter-
back David Clark to the ground
ﬁve times, giving him 24 sacks
for his career.

On top of his record—setting
sack numbers, Hull ﬁnished with
fourteen tackles. These num-
bers earned him ODAC Defen-
sive Player of the Week honors.

Junior noseguard Peyton Wil-
liams also had a huge game, col-
lecting eleven tackles and two
and a half sacks.

Senior defensive tackle John
Tweardy made ten stops, two of
which went for losses, and junior
Travis Wisdom tied Hull for the
team lead in tackles with four-
teen stops.

All of the game’s scoring
came in the first half. W&L was
the first team to ﬂash points on
the scoreboard, as ;-mior quar-
terback Brooks Fischer dashed
35 yards off of an option play for
a touchdown with 8:15 remain-

..>

.. ....;.

ing in the ﬁrst quarter.

Fischer was a thorn in Centre ’s
side all day, as he proved he
could run adequately as well.
Playing without injured star
sophomore running back Seth
McKinley, the j unior churned out
a career-high 66 yards on 12 at-
tempts, to go along with his solid
passing numbers of 16 comple-
tions in 24 attempts for a yield of
154 yards.

His numbers in the air moved
him into seventh place on the all-
time W&L passing list.

Freshman Chas Chastain was
on the receiving end of ﬁve of
Fischer’s passes. Chastain, a
converted quarterback, showed
plenty of ability at the wideout
position by making two diving
catches. His 48 receiving yards
moved him to the top of the
ODAC charts in receiving.

Trailing 7-0, Centre evened
the score in the second quarter.
Kris Garrett hit paydirt from
seven yards out with 4:23 re-
maining before halftime.

With the Colonels’ passing

attack grounded for only 32 yards
_on the day, Garrett provided most
of Centre’s offense as he ran for
141 yards in 30 tries.

The defenses took ﬁrm con-
trol in the second half. Centre
quarterback Clark spent a large
part of the half flaton his back, as
the W&L defense established a
new ODAC record with its nine
sacks on the afternoon.

The defensive effort was also
helped considerably by senior
punter Lee Goins, who was fill-
ing in for the injured Jonathan
Gardner. Goins boomed a 50-
yarder for one of his six punts, as
well as twice pinning the Colo-
nels inside their 20-yard line.

The Generals ﬁnally threat-
ened late in the game in an effort
to pull off a startling upset.

Rooted on by a surprisingly-
large crowd at Wilson Field,
W&L drove into Centre territory
late in the fourth quarter, where
they set up for Thomas’s futile
last-ditch attempt on the ﬁnal
play of the game.

With the blocked FG attempt,

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The W&L football team, depicted here in last year’s Homecoming game
against Randolph-Macon, will take an 0-1-1 record with to Ashland this
year to face the Yellow Jackets. R-MC is scoring 35.7 points per game.

W&Lﬁnished in a tie forthe ﬁrst
time since a 10-10 stalemate with
Randolph-Macon in 1988.

Randolph-Macon, in fact, will
be the opponent tomorrow for
the Generals. W&L will have to
travel to Ashland this year after
succumbing to the Yellow Jack-
ets in last season’s homecoming
game in Lexington, 19-0.

The Generals, though, still
hold the lead in the all-time se-
ries, 20-1 9-3, despite R-MC hav-
ing won the last ﬁve contests.

The Yellow Jackets have been
an offensive machine this sea-
son, leading the ODAC in scor-
ing with an amazing 35.7 points
per game.

Junior QB George Bland has
already aired upthe ball 123 times
in their ﬁrst three games, and he

has completed 57 of them for 878 V
yards and ten touchdown passes. .«
Two weeks ago, Bland and the .

Yellow Jackets were involved in
a wild 50-50 tie with Catholic.
The Generals take an 0-1-1

record, 0-1 in league play, with '

them to Ashland.

Josephine Schaeffer continued her dominance on the courses this weeken
of the ﬁeld at the Dickinson Open in Carlisle,

W&L teams run Well at Dickinson

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and l5ee’s cross-
country teams put up a solid
showing over the weekend at the
Dickinson Open, which was held
in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Men come away with sec-
ond-place honors in seventeen
team tournament

The men’s team recorded the
better mark, ﬁnishing second out
of 17 teams, behind only tenth-
ranked Haverford. Team high-
lights included a victory over

Carnegie Mellon for the ﬁrst time
ever at this meet.

lndividually,seniorBrad Faye
paced the Generals for the third
straight week, as he notched a
fourth-place ﬁnish overall with a
time of 25:45.

Sophomore Jason Callen also
made the top ten ﬁnishers, re-
cording a time of 25:52, good for
seventh place.

The other three top ﬁnishers
for the Generals were sophomore
Will Olson, who ran 24th, sopho-
more Taylor Shultzin 36th place,
and freshman Josh Beckham in
41st place. Beckham outstrided
classmate Darrick Alford by only
one second.

Women ﬁnish respectably

The women’s team faced the
absence of sophomore leader
Carson Flowers, and yet the Gen-
erals managed a solid ninth-place
finish in the seventeen-team
Dickinson Open.

Senior Josephine Schaeffer
posted another victory, covering
the course in 17:40, good for a
35-second win. Schaeffer broke
herown course record in the pro-
cess, and now has a career total
of 24 victories.

Freshman Natasha Dorofeeva
finished second among the Gen-
erals with a time of 20:03, put-
ting her in 42nd place overall,

d by outrunning the rest
Pennsylvania. The victory was the 24th of her career.

File Photo

and showing that she has now
recuperated from a sprained ankle
which she suffered last week.
Junior Nat Messmore, senior
Catherine Cardullo, and fresh-
man Katye Jenkins also scored
for the team.

Next stop: Greensboro, NC

The cross-country teams
travel to Greensboro this week-
end, and then take a week off in
preparation for the state champi-
onship. Astute W&L sports fans
will no doubt watch closely to
see more results from the teams’
young supporting casts this year

Men’s soccer

takes two games ’

in ODAC play

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team played its first set of
matches in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference last week.

They knocked off Emory & Henry and Guilford, but suffered V

their ﬁrst loss of the season to a nationally-ranked Virginia Wesleyan
team. The Generals now have a 5-1 overall record.

The win over E&H last Wednesday held particular merit because
the Wasps went into the match with an impressive 3-0 record in

conference play.

E&H jumped out to an early 1-0 lead, but W&L did not stay down -

for long. Freshman Sam Chase tied the game at one when he fired
in a pass from sophomore Gordon Meeker. Meeker put the Generals
in the lead when he took advantage of a poorly—positioned goalie and
connected on a shot from midﬁeld. Chase tacked on a second goal

before halftime.

In the second half, W&Ljunior Bill Sigler sealed the victory with
a goal thirty-ﬁve seconds before the ﬁnal horn. Three goalkeepers,
junior Anthony Mazzarelli, freshman E. J. Murphy, and freshman
Garry Hill, and the Generals’ defense stymied the Wasps attack

effectively after the initial goal.

Virginia Wesleyan, the tenth-ranked team in Division lll, proved
to be too much for the Generals; especially a W&L team that has
been battling the ﬁu recently. The talented Blue Marlins defeated
the Generals, 3-0, this past Saturday.

W&L was back in action Wednesday afternoon, as the Generals

headed south to Greensboro, North Carolina, for an ODAC battle ,

with Guilford.

The Generals took care of business on the road, handing the

Quakers a 2-0 loss.

Freshman Sam Chase started the scoring when he booted home
a goal off a comer kick from Sigler. Senior Chad Dobbins scored the
Generals’ ﬁnal goal in the second half by converting on an assist

from sophomore Colin Connolly.

Freshman Murphy was again solid in the goal for the Generals,

as he halted four Guilford shots.

The victory moved W&L’s record in ODAC play to 2-1.

The Generals will host ODAC opponent Eastern Mennonite at ,,
Liberty Hall Field this Saturday.

JockShoIts

Volleyball:

After two wins last week
stretched the Generals’ season-
opening winning streak to eight
games, the Washington and Lee
volleyball team finally suc-
cumbed in heartbreaking fash-
ion this past week.

‘ On Wednesday night, W&L
travelled into Bridgewater for
an ODAC match, but the Eagles
had a surprise in store for the
Generals as they upset W&L, 3-
15, 3-15, 15-8, 15-11,15-7.

Sophomore Hilary Martin
had another big evening
Wednesday with a season-high
19 kills, as well as 5 blocks.
Junior Virginia Yoerg, the Fe-
male Athlete of the Week, turned
in another commendable effort
with her 12 kills and 6 blocks.
Senior Cheryl Taurassi tallied
28 assists.

weekend, and played decently as
both senior Andy Horen and
freshman Dale Pretila made it to
second round play in singles.
Pretila returned for doubles
play, where he and senior Chris
MacNaughton teamed up to ad-
vance all the way to the semifinal
round, where the would-be cham-
pions from Washington College
defeated them.
The Generals will next be in
action October 7-8, when they
host the W&L Fall Classic.

Women’s Tennis:
W&L, the lone non-Division
1 entry, held their own at the
James Madison Invitational.
Freshman Mary Celeste Fos-
ter stole the spotlight away from
the strong Division I competi-
tion with her title victory in the
eighth ﬂight

 

day and Saturday, and W&L
played well at their home course
with a third—place ﬁnish.

The Generals trailed only
the 635 compiled by
Bridgewater and Virginia
Wesleyan. W&L ﬁnished with
a score of 641.

Juniors Jay lngram and
Tommy Dudley each carded a
157 for the 36-hole tournament,
which was only three shots be-
hind winner Charlie Meek of
Bridgewater. Senior Scott
Miller shot the low round for

at Mary Washington.

game this week, and they won it
going away, 8-0, over Randolph-
Macon Women’s College.

thanks in large part to junior
Michelle Bauman.

utes to record a hat trick. In the
process, her three goals broke
the W&L career points mark, as

W & L over a com-
Wl“ agam be petitor from
tested tomor— Davidson
row, when soph0_
they face de- m 0 r e S
f°"d'“g Natalia
ODAC Garcia,‘~
champion B e r r y “
E 3 S 1 €_ T_n Blankinship,
Mennonitem E r j C k 3
the openerof shapard, and
t ll 8 Helen Chan-
Gettysburg dler all ad-
Cl3SSlC- vanced to the

finals in the
Golf: consolation
The L.ex- matches.
mgm" C0u”' Photo by Betsy Green, W&LWill
la)’ C-jlUbf“’:S Phi Photo Editor face another
t esiteo t e mu h h 1-
first golf The Generals advance [mic cums
tournament to 5-1 on the season. Weekend in
of the year the Rolex
this Past F-'5' Tournament

Women’s Soccer:
The Generals only played one

The game was never in doubt,

lt took Baumanjust 21 min-

she currently totals 52.
Thursday was also another big
afternoon for the W&L fresh-
men. Nicole Johnson scored a
goal and collected two assists,
and Karin Treese notched her
team-high ninth goal ofthe year.
The waters become rougher
for the Generals tomorrow, when
they must pay a visit to second-

the Generals with a 75.

W&L will have more than
two weeks to prepare for its
next tournament, the Ferrum
Fall lnvitational. which will be
held October 16-17.

Men’s Tennis:
W&L hosted the Rolex South
Atlantic Regional this past

and in the future.

ranked Randolph-Macon. J

 

 

H]
ex.

 
 

h
v

 

