u
w)

V \’~..- '3’. 2

l-$’l”,‘».".‘*”‘.' I “?":i, 1. .

res as tees

lt’ s not easy being

Hallie, Prince

greervmindecl 9 rule a! Sewanee 9

m Iﬁhi

voLUME,96f‘No. 13

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

They’ve got that volunteer spirit!

Betsy Green,.Phi‘Photo Editor

Local volunteer organizations looked for W&L students to help their causes at the Volunteer Fair. The
Fair was sponsored by several W&L organizations, and was held in the University Center Wednesday.

Burke stresses Greek
responsibility in speech

BY MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

In an increasingly litigious society, fratemi-
ties and sororities are being stuck with the
image of being drinking clubs, said Timothy
Burke, an expert on fraternal law and a legal
representative for two W&L national sorori-
ties, in a speech Tuesday night in Lee Chapel.

Burke’s visit was sponsored by both
Panhellenic Council and the Interfrater-
nity Council.

The negative image that fraternities and
sororities have presently is not the image that
W&L fraternities and sororities want to have
for their Greek life, he said.

He said in laws against drunk driving are
tightening because of the efforts by organiza-
tions such as MADD (Mothers Against
Drunk Driving) and SADD (Students
Against Drunk Driving).

“All of your national fraternities and sorori-
ties have encouraged risk management,” he
said, “and notjust to eliminate liability but also
to eliminate injury.”

Mock Con site gaining prestige

He said fraternities and sororities should
start with the premise that under Virginia state
law no one under 21 can be served alcohol to
have effective risk management. If Greek orga-
nizations don’t start with that premise, they will
not have insurance companies willing to de-
fend them in case of a serious incident.

He also argued that hazing has no place in
the proper conduct of a Greek organization.
Thirty-eight states have prohibited hazing as a
statutory law.

Hazing does not move the fraternity move-
ment forward, and it does not promote brother-
hood or sisterhood.

“Thankfully, national fraternities and so-
rorities recognize that message, but it doesn’t
always get down to the local chapters,”he said.
“No physical punishment should be part of the
initiation for your brothers and sisters.”

He said fraternities and sororities can’t man-
age the risks of hazing. They simply don’t haze.
He urged fraternity and sorority leaders to make
clear to their members and pledges that hazing
is not tolerated or condoned and stand by it.

He cited a definition of hazing by Robert
Keith, Greek advisor ofOhio Weslyan Univer-

BY EMILY BAKER
P/zi Executive Editor

And the time has payed off.

Last week the Mock Con Home Page was named Web Site
ofthe Week by two companies that evaluate web sites. Thurs-
day it was named Web Site ofthe Day by Politics USA.

_ The Steering Committee’s original idea for the Mock
. Convention home page wasn’t quite as ambitious as Mark

Tobias’.

“At first all they wanted wasjust the logo,” said Tobias,
‘reator ofthe home page. “I thought we could do a lot more

'ith it.”

Tobias’ vision has turned into a nationally recognized
50 page-long web site of candidates, issues, and links to

)ll'lCT websites and newsgroups.

Tobiasdividedthe pageintodiffcrentsectionsincluding
coming speakers, platforms, state by state analyses, politi-

cal publications, and donations to Mock Con.

‘‘I thought about what I wanted to learn, and what l
thought other people would want to learn from it,” Tobias

said.

He estimates that he has spent between 400 and 500
hours building and adding information to the home page.

“Today’s pick is an impressive offering from a group of
students at Washington and Lee University,” reads the Politics
USA review. “This 1996 Republican Mock Convention site is
well-designed, full of information and fun to navigate.”

Tobias said that 150 extra people visited the web site
Thursday when Politics USA reviewed it. The feedback from
web-surfers, politics watchers and alumni has been positive.

Tobias said alumni are e-mailing the web site and sharing
memories of their own Mock Con memories

The home page offers an on-line issues forum, pictures and

video footage of candidates.

tion in August.

Tobias plans next to add in ‘‘what‘s new” section, so visitors
don’t have to sift through information they’ve already read to
find updates. He says he will continue updating the home page
after Mock Con, until the actual Republican National Conven-

Check out the result of hundreds of hours of work at
http://www.mockcon.wlu.e(lu/~mockcon/

sity, which is in the form of six questions: Will
the activity achieve its predetermined purpose?
Could you tell the chapter president about the
activity? Would you be willing to perform the
activity before an administrator? Would you be
willing to send parents a snapshot of the activ-
ity? Would you be able to defend it in court?
Would you share this activity with other
chapters during a national conference of
fraternities?

Burke said if the answer to one or all of these
questions is no, then the activity is hazing.

Fraternities and sororities should also pro-
tect against sexual abuse, he said. Laws have
been strengthened to prevent sexual abuse in
the workplace and on campus.

“The fraternity that condones getting a fresh-
man woman liquored up so that the upperc1ass-
men can get her to their room is wrong,” he said.
“Women’s groups need to stand up to men’s
groups and demand that they attend parties
where they will be respected.”

With a resurgence of fraternities and sorori-
ties on American campuses, there has been an
increased recognition of the bad things that
occur in Greek organizations, Burke said. If
fraternities and sororities work well, they can
provide its members with leadership skills,
connections, and personal development. To
achieve this, fraternity and sorority members
must stand against those practices that may be
considered tradition but are in fact legally and
morally wrong.

“Stopping these things will make your fra-
ternities and sororities better for it.”

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 2, 1996

Thompson missed
by W&L community

BY DANIELLE BURGIIARDT
AND DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writers

Friends, faculty, and administrators thought
of him highly:
“He was a great guy.”
“He was the sweetest guy.”
“He was marked for success.”
Washington and Lee senior David C. Th-
ompson died Sunday following a single—car
accident near Collierstown.
The accident occurred around 2:30 that
momingon Route25l.
Thompson was
taken to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital in
Lexington.
After his condition
was stabilized, he was
flown to Roanoke Me-
morial Hospital. He
died there at approxi-
mately 6:15 a.m.
State Trooper R.J.
Noe said Thompson
was driving at 70-75
miles per hour when
he veered off the road
and into a field. Th-
ompson was thrown
from his vehicle when
ithitatree. He was not
wearing a seatbelt.
Trooper Noe said
when he arrived on
the scene, he smelled
alcohol on
Thompson’s breath. -- --
Although officials
believe Thompson
died of severe head injuries, it will not be
confirmed until the medical report is released.
The funeral is scheduled for l :00 p.m. today
at Old St. Paul’s Church in Baltimore, Md. A
reception will be held at St. Paul’s School
forBoys, Thompson’s alma mater, following
the service.
Dean of Students David Howison said the
university is providing two buses to Baltimore

today. He expects most of the 90 spaces to be
filled by Thompson’s former lacrosse team-
mates and members of his fraternity, Beta
Theta Pi.

Thompson, whose home was in Hunt Val-
ley, Md., was a 3-time letter winner as a
midfielder on the W&L lacrosse team.

“Thompson’s impact on the lacrosse team
went far beyond the lacrosse field,” said Head
Lacrosse Coach Jim Stagnitta.

According to Stagnitta, Thompson contrib-
uted not only athletic ability, but team spirit
as well.

Thompson received the W&L Scholar-

Athlete award last
fall for his 3.5
grade pointaverage.

“It was his best
academic perfor-
mance since he had
been at W&L,” said
Dean Howison.

“He radiated good
humor and good will
to others and he al-
ways seemed in a
cheerful mood,” said
J. Davis Futch, pro-
fessor of history. “He
appeared to be the
friendliest student in
school.”

An announce-
ment is expected
Monday about a uni-
versity memorialser-
vice for Thompson.
Dean Howison said
it should take place
in Lee Chapel some-
time next week.

Thompson is sur-

vived by his mother, Elizabeth Thompson of
Hunt Valley; his father, David Thompson of
Baltimore; and his brother, James Thompson of
Hunt Valley.

Thompson had a bright future ahead of him,
said Futeh.

“If any student was ever marked for suc-
cess, it was he,” he said. “David was the kind
of son every family hopes to have.’

Benefit concert soon to
rock the Lenfest Center

BY SARA MCCRONL‘
P/ii Staff Writer

The Hill will be alive with the sound of
musicon Feb.3forthesixthannua|One Acous-
tic Evening benefit concert held at the Lenfest
Center at 7:30 p.m.

The event will feature W&L students, fac-
ulty, and alumni, as well as some members of
the Lexington community. The proceeds from
the $5 admission will fund two alternative
springbreak projects, BridgesTo Community’s
trip to Nicaragua in February and “Christmas in
April,” sponsored by Total Action Against
Poverty and Catholic Campus Ministry.

The performers include W&Lseniors Brian
Boland and Tommy Esposito joined by fresh-
man Chris Edwards, W&L law professor and
guitarist Alan ldes, and W&L third year law
student and soprano Alison Pilgrim.

Another student group, Fifth Beat, which
features Tom Leggett, Todd Bryan, and David
Olympio, plans to play modern jazz arrange-
ments. Leggettwillalsocollaborate with W&L
junior and poet Aaron Wilkinson in performing

original compositions.

A three-year veteran of Lime Kiln musicals,
Chris Leva ‘86 will perform original folk and
reggae arrangements, and the Greenhouse De-
feet and Stringdusters are also slated to share
their musical talents with the audience. ln
addition, students who frequent Lexington’s
Night Owl Music will be pleased to recognize
owner Wayne Raynal on stage for his debut
performance of original compositions.

McGraw Gap, winner of Telluride’s 1995
Bluegrass and Country Music Festival Best
Bluegrass Band, Best Guitarist (Larry Keel),
Best Mandolin (Daniel Knicely), and Third
Best Banjo (Will Lee), will also perform on
Saturday night. The group, which is recording
its first CD in the next month, has been the
opening act for such performers as Bill Mon-
roe, the Country Gentlemen, Eddie Adcock,
and Leftover Salmon.

lnaddition,Blind Lemon Phillipswillpresent
his “...grand mixture of musical styles and
influences ranging from the blues to rock to
folk to avant-garde, all delivered with an enthu-
siastic blend of humor and wit” (Jerry Harris,
The News Gazette). .

What do you mean, more snow?

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Before the remains of the Blizzard of 1996 fully disappear, Mother Nature slams
Lexington with another pile o’snow. See Weekend Weather above.

lib) .
» »
1

 
 
   
 

 
    

 

.4

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

French President envisions

Euro-American alliance

Paris, France——French President Jacques Chirac said that during his
visit to the United States this week, he will present Congress and President
Clinton with his vision ofa new balance of power in the alliance between
Europe and the United States.

Chirac, who has made sweeping domestic and diplomatic reforms since
he began his presidential term, emphasizes that while an alliance between
the nations of Europe and the United States will always be significant to
maintaining world security, the nations of Europe must begin to take
greater military responsibility for upholding regional peace.

In Chirac’s vision, the United States would decrease its military
involvement in European peacekeeping efforst while increasing financial
reliefto third world countries. Chirac has already begun to execute his plan
by reinstating France as a significant NATO power and providing French
troops for the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia.

Scientists make new progress

in battle against AIDS virus

Atlanta——Medical researchers have made what could be a significant
discovery in the battle against the AIDS virus. Scientists have found that
by countingthc numberofstrands ofHlV genetic material, or RNA, in each
micro liter of a patient’s blood, they can accurately predict the stage ofthe
patient’s illness.

This assessment ofthe progression ofthe AIDS virus is usually done by
counting the number ofimmune system cell defenders. or CD-ls, per micro
liter of blood. However, this method has often proved inaccurate, a
problem which doctors say can affect the quality of the treatment given to
a patient. In order to maintain a patient’s comfort and safety during
treatment. doctors must be able to accurately assess the stage to which the
AIDS virus has progressed.

RNA counts will also aid researchers in their search for a cure by
providing more accurate data concerning the effectiveness of various
treatments in combatting the virus.

Cosmo editor to retire

New York—Helen Gurley Brown, editor-in-chief or cosmopolitan,
has been asked to retire after 31 years as the editor of the most popular
magazine among college women.

At seventy-three, Brown is the only woman editor to have received the
Henry Johnson Fisher Award from the Magazine Publishers of America,
and is known among her colleagues as a work hard, play hard “Cosmo girl”
whose ambition and work ethic turned a failing magazine into a thriving
enterprise mroe than thirty years ago. Her highly controversialviews
concerning women and sexuality have been an earmark of her work for
years, and have gained greater popularity for her magazine.

Many, including Brown herself, cite the drastic difference between her
age and that of her and that of her typical college-age reader as the primary
factor behind the decision to ask Brown for her retirement. The position
of editor-in-chief will be filled by thirty-nine year old Bonnie Fuller next
year

Chinese Premier threatens

use of force against Taiwan

Beijing—ln a speech designed to fortify the strained relationship with
Taiwan, Chinese Premier Li Peng threatened force against the foreign
powers which support independence forTaiwan. Li insists that the state of
relations between the nationalist island and communist China is the fault
ofTaiwanese independence movements and that, despite its reluctance to
do so, China will not hesitate to use any necessary methods to bring about
reunification. ~

Taiwanese officials viewed the speech as a familiar tool in China’s
continuing effort to bring about one unified China.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Forbes takes lead from Dole

In less than three weeks until the New I lampshire primary, Steve Forbes
has surged into the lead. passing front—runner Bob Dole according to a
Boston Globe/'\\’l3S—'l‘\/ poll. Political anal_\ sts state that Forbes has much
momentum because many voters see him as an outsider to Washington
politics. His popularity, attributable to his huge media blitz, continues to
surge as the Dole campaign collapses. Many voters are dissatisfied with
Dole especially since his response to President Clinton’s State ofthe Union
address. Concerns about his age, the fact that he is a Washington insider
and his role in the budget negotiations have raised doubts in the public’s
mind about Dole’s ability to be a worthwhile President.

Buchanan edges ahead

Pat Buchanan edged Steve Iiorbes in a narrow victory in the Alaska
GOP Straw Poll while Bob Dole received less than half the votes ofthe
winner. Buchanan supporters assert that this win in Alaska sends the
powerful message that Pat Buclianan is the only conservative candidate
that can beat Forbes and Dole to Louisiana and Iowa caucus goers.

GOP Watch is compiled
by Laura Knapp

Women leaders unite for dinner, anniversary ,

BY SARA, MCCRONE

argued that female W&L students would be “young
ladies on the prowl” and would turn W&L into “the

  
   
   

The Rin -tum Phi Februa 2 1996‘

 

example, there was a huge back—up of angry studehts‘
in the Graham-Lees laundry room: no one had °

Phi Staff Writer

It seemed like a repeat performance of Rush as
women filed into the University Center, dressed to
the nines and sporting name tags and 100-watt
smiles. But this was a one-night deal, a special
dinner sponsored by Women and Leadership to
celebrate the tenth anniversary of coedueation at
W&L. The organization had invited 135 student
leaders, faculty, and staff to attend the dinner and
speaker event.

Women and Leadership’s president, Karly
Jennings, welcomed the guests of honor, Dr. Mimi
Elrod, Cinda Rankin, Michelle Richardson, Dean
Howison, and Dr. Darcy Russell, and cited many
groups and teams in which women were involved
and held leadership positions. After dinner, the
women’s tennis coach, Cinda Rankin, gave a well-
received and interesting speech on the history of
coedueation at W&L.

The audience was surprised to learn that women
had been allowed to attend W&L for two summer
sessions during World War II, and all chuckled
when Rankin read an excerpt from a Ring-tum Phi
article in which a professor against co-education

&
'85

'7
%,

W&L gains new counselor, facilities

BY EMILY BAKER
P/ii Executive Editor

Washington and Lee’s counseling services
start the new year with a fresh face and reno-
vated facilities.

Anne McThenia is temporarily taking the
place ofAnne Schroer-Lamont, Associate Dean
of Students, who is on sabbatical in Norway.

McThenia and Dr. James Worth, W&L’s
other counselor have their offices in the newly
renovated counseling center. The center is also
home to W&L’s health educator.

McThenia comes to W&L after eight years
ofworking at Hollins College. She had planned
on retiring at the end of this school year,
when Schroer-Lamont and Worth asked" her
to fill Schroer-Lamont’s place this year. She
retireda semester early from Hollins to fill
the position.

McThenia majored in psychology at
Randolph-Macon Women’s College and

reading about them."

seled for five years.

received her master’s from James Madison
University.

“I was aware at an early age that my first
passion was working with people in a helping
capacity,” she said. “As a child, I was always
the one who would try to keep other kids from

point.

I Preisident_  
*1’: ‘  = :i—Ant13911y Mazzﬁrell

 
 

 
   

’I‘reasurer-~._ ;
Tommy?
Secretary,    ; V ’
, I Tom‘I_ny_R_u,eger ’97, Phiv,KappaS

‘ Senior Justice; : ‘ ‘  
 Chad Sartini

 

‘I:97,>*'si‘grii' Bhi’Eps1I0,

   
 

am 597, ‘stggttaatpha Epsilon  _

Eort:

This logo for the tenth anniversary of
coedueation will be appearing on
t-shirts which go on sale next week.

saying ugly things to each other.”

During the 60’s and 70’s, McThenia raised
herthree children and did volunteerwork on the
side. Raising herthree children prepared hcrfor
counseling college students. she said.

“I’ve been exposed to just about every issue
you can experience in counseling,” she said.
“(Raising children) gave me an understanding
about things I wouldn‘t have had from just

Fort Lauderdale of the North.”
Also amusing were some of the first problems
encoutered in the transition to co-education.

‘§§\\gQ'l ON A/V0

OE

In 1980. McThenia helped start the Alcohol
Service of Rockbridge County, where she coun-

This is not McThenia‘s first job at W&L.
Before she worked at Hollins. McThenia coun-
seled for a semester here. At the time, Dean
Schroer-Lamont was doing career counseling
and the school needed a temporary counselor.

W&L is typical in its counseling needs,
McThenia said. Students here face the same
problems as students on other campuses, in-
cluding adjustment problems, eating disorders,
substance abuse, and sexuality issues.

McThenia enjoys working with college
students because they’re at such a transitional

“It’s exciting to help people transfer from
one major life period to another,” she said.

   
       
  
   
  

Sorority housing plan proposed

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

After months of dialogue with the
four Panhellenic sororities, the Sorority
Housing Committee announced a pre-
liminary housing proposal last week.

The proposal includes plans for five
sorority houses, while allowing room
for a sixth. Each house would sleep 20
to 30 women, have a kitchen, an eating
area, a common area, and an office area.
There would be no party room, as na-
tional sororities have non-alcoholic hous-
ing policies.

The proposed location, next to the
Pavilion and across from the law school,
is a six-minute walk to campus.

women enjoy on this campus.

rorities eat together.

house only a few members.

representatives.

ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR

The W&L Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for a possible
Admissions Counselor position. All
interested graduating seniors should
submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Friday, February 16, 1996
to:

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions
Office of Admissions

   

 

  
     
  

5

   
  

The plan also includes a Panhellenic cen-
ter where sororities can hold date functions.
The committee hopes that a common center
will help allay fears that sorority housing
will lessen the Panhellenic spirit sorority

The committee also suggested a rotating
meal plan, where classes from different so-

Members of the four sororities filled out
surveys earlier this year, but were divided on
whether to have houses or lodges that would

The committee emphasized that this is
not the final report. Panhellenic has until
March first to submit the report. Sorority
members are encouraged to give their input
to and ask questions of their Panhellenic

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast

The Buffet is served from 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m.

RAVEL ABROAD AND WORK

ake up to $25-$45 per hour teaching basic eonver
ational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S
Korea. Many employers provide room & board «
ther benefits. No teaching background or Asia

anguages required. For more information call
_"06l 971-1570 ext 115471

gs

expected that the female students would wash thei
clothes twice as much as their male counterparts. In
addition, there was t-shirt wars among the students.
Some men wore t—shirts which read, “Women at
W&L: The Beginning of an Error,” while women ‘
shot back with slogans like “W&L Women: Quality
Doesn’t Have to Travel.” I

But there were also moments of seriousness, such
as when Rankin shared a letter written by Jennifer
Gray ‘89 in her freshman year in which she com— V
mended the W&L community for offering a warm _
welcome to females on campus and stated that she _
did not come to W&L to “smash a tradition” but “to
attend one of the nation’s finest schools.” Rankin
concluded her speech by saying that “the Colonnade
is still standing...coeducation has been a mere bump
in the road. Tradition has not changed. [W&L
represents] honor and integrity, and the students ‘
respect and care for one another.” «

At the end ofthe evening, the audience applauded
the efforts of Pamela Simpson, the head of the Co- ‘
education Steering Committee, and Jennings an-
nounced that March 14 was the day to wear the
newly-designed anniversaryt-shirts which willbe on
sale next week.

For

4:»

'95
%

é. .
W. Patrick Hinelly
Anne McThenia is the new counselor at W&L.‘

Denniston visits W&L,
speaks on reporting . ,‘

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

t

Lyle Denniston is the quintessential journalist’s journalist. ,

He believes in the principle that journalists are the catalyst in the
democratic system — they help the process along, but have no measure,
influence on the result. i

In the age of embattled Supreme Court nominations, he maintains that
the press plays virtually no role in determining the success of that
individual. I

It may seem strange that these remarks would be made by the dean of
the Court press corps. Even stranger when considering that Denniston has
been covering the Court for nearly 40 years as a reporter for The Baltimore
Sun. I v
Denniston visited the W&L campus Tuesday afternoon as part of
Professor Edwin Yoder’s course on Reporting on the Supreme Court. The
Department of Journalism and Mass Communications and the School df
Law sponsored a speech he gave to the general public that afternoon. I

In his lecture, entitled “Reporting on the U.S. Supreme Court,” Denniston
argued that Court journalists are not active participants in the nominating
process. They in no way affect the outcome ofthe purely political game.

“The role ofthe press is profoundly exaggerated,” said Denniston. “The
press can’t make anything something it’s not.”

Denniston refuted the idea that the press is the handmaidcn by which
judicial careers are destroyed or deeply threatened.

    
  
  
 

3

  
   
     
    
    
   
  
    
  
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
    
       
    
   
 

He examined the nominations of Justices Clarence Thomas and Ruth

Bader Ginsburg.

In both examples, he maintained that the U.S. Senate had alrcady_
determined that the nominee would be confirmed. Media scrutiny played
no role in the confirmation process, according to Denniston.

There was no way Democratic senators were going to vote against an
African—American successortoThurgood Marshall, Denniston said. Simi-
larly, the media’s exposure ofthe letter-writing campaign ofGinsburg and
her husband would not be enough to persuade the Senate to reject her._

In the same vein, he asserted that Judge Robert Bork was doomed from
the beginning. The anti—Reagan senators used the Bork nomination as ;
way to strike back at the President in the wake of the Iran-Contra afla‘ ‘.,

Despite Denniston‘s conviction that the press doesn’t direct the ot -
come of a confirmation hearing. he supports grueling examination of’ II
potential justices.

Journalists should go in looking for dirt, said Denniston. But théy
should not be surprised that the fate of the nominee has already been
decided. /

Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

We’ll be waiting for you.

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexin

  
   
 

ShipsorLand-Tourcompanies+WorldTraveI rh
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:

Q06) 971-3550 ext. C5342]

   

 

   
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
       
       
 
      
   
     
 

 
  
 
     
    
  
  
  
  
     

 

I

K
, I

I’
I‘
I

K

‘-.

I The Ring-tum PI1i,February 2, 1996 I  

&life

Page 3

it’s not easy

being greerrmincieci

Courtney  A/iiiier

Phi Features Editor

lt’s not easy being green, as Kermit sweetly sang so many
years ago. The environmental movement has infiltrated the
daily life ofthe daily consumer. Many states have passed
. legislature mandating the recycling ofcertain materials, and
 encouraging itthroughsuch programs ascurb-siderecyclying
and redemption values forsoda cans. Followingin line with
a national trend, then, W&L has begun a pilot proram of
campus recycling at Woods Creek Apartments.
V W&L’s distance from the movement is slowly disap-
: pearing as students from all across America voice concerns
; overthclackofacampusrecyclingprogram. Manystudcnts
: feel that W&L, as an institution of higher learning, has a
; responsibility to be a leader in recycling within the commu-
; nity, that it can no longer take a back seat to the responsibil-
; ity of recycling. Due to the lack of a campus recycling
j program, many students are struggling to maintain pro-
: grams of their own.
j The university now provides facilities for the recycling
i ofaluminum products such as soda cans and ofmixed paper
' without large plastic or wax labels (but not newsprint).
Previously students who wished to recycle would sort.
separate and transport their own waste to Rockbridge

County’s recycling pit-stop in the Kroger parking lot.

Aluminum and paper were chosen because they are the
easiest products for the consumer to recycle, and they use
the least amount of labor and money to complete the cycle.

A recycling committee headed by the Treasurer of the
unversity, Lawrence Broomall, and consisting of several
students, both law and undergraduate, has met three times
this year and hopes to expand the pilot Woods Creek
program to the entire school in the near future.

I

 

Unfortunately, however_. there has been little or no re-
sponse to the committec’s pilot program of recycling; :1
meeting for students living in Woods (‘reek interested in
recycling \vas poorly attended, and although bins are avail-
able for the students to recycle, many are not using them.

Jason Ham, law student and member of the recycling
committee, feels that the bins should be placed in the
apartments whether or not the individual students ask for
them. Each apartment has between three and five individu-
als, and Ham feels that at least one ofthem will be inclined
to recycle, while in the future the other residents may also
wish to recycle.

Buildings and Grounds employees collect discarded
materials from bins in the basements of the East and West
buildings. Pick—up is every Tuesday and Thursday from 8-
9 a.m.

Ham also feels that students who previously recycled
losetheirinitiativeand interestinrecyclingwhentheyarrive
at W&I.. because it is so difficult to recycle.

Students who wish to recycle items such as newspapers
that the pilot program does not include should place bundles
in brown paper sacks, or tie them together with string.
Plastic containers need to be sorted by color (white and
green). Glass also needs to be sorted by color (white and
brown). The students can then take their bundles to the
recycling center at Kroger. The grocery store operates the
center from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. seven days a week.

If the pilot program of Woods Creek is a success, and
students prove interested in recycling, l-lam hopes the com-
mittee will extend recycling campus-wide. He also hopes
the school’s recycling will eventually include newspapers
and other commonly recycled materials.

Phi Executive Editor Dan Odenwald explores

Everybody knows newspapers
are boring.

The writing is cliché, the report-
ing is biased and the ﬂare is absent.
Readership is down, the afternoon
dailies are dead, and the Informa-
tion Super Highway threatens the
print media"s very existence. For
God’s sake, they’re still managed
by those dinosaur-aged editors who
still believe in the inverted pyra-
mid.

What the hell is happening?

The truth? Well, most critics are
correct: newspapers are in serious
danger. The problems of which
readers complain are valid.

The good news is that print jour-
nalists are aware of their concerns.
Those who teach, those who prac-
tice, and those who pontiﬁcate are
engaged in a dialogue focused on
revolutionizing the world of news-
papers.

Advocates of New Journalism
want to see more human interest,
more personal connection, and bet-
ter storytelling. These reformers
desire to throw the antiquated mod-
els of old out the window. Change
the paradigm. Innovate. Win back

Like most well-entrenched institu-
tions, the print media are slow to change.
But if you look closely, you can find
it—-superb journalism for the modern
age.

The Washington Post is one of the
two best newspapers in the United
States today (The New York Times

‘ beingthe other).

Some ofthe ﬁnestworkinthe news-
paperbusinessappearswithinits folds.
This review is a salute to the Post’s
Style section, an impressive repository
of New Journalism.

The Style section contains features
stories or funky and offbeat material.
Topics include fashion, entertainment,
society, unique people, and the arts.

On any given day, one can open up
the Style section and truly catch a
glimpse of American culture. Con-
temporary deToqueville-types, search-
ing forthe meaningofAmerica,should
look inside these pages.

Take the PostofThursday, January
31, 1996, for example. The headlines
say it all.

G.O.P. presidential hopefuls de-
scend on Louisiana in anticipation of
the state primary. Rock artist Jewel
warms the hearts of adoring fans.
Couples who are in love and confront a
big age gap deal with society’s expec-

Post-Modern News

man whose girlfriend hates his tattoo.

This is America, folks. Who cares
about Whitewater? Bosnia? the Bal-
anced Budget? Let’s talk gossip.

The most enduring component of
the Style section is TheReliableSource,
the Post’s own gossip column. For-
merly edited by Lois Romano, the
Sourceisnowcompiled by AnnieGroer

and Ann Gerhart§ If you want toknow ‘ '

wherrlalugh gets caught with a hooker,
when Lisa Marie and Michael call it
quits, or when John, Jr., fails the bar,
read the Source.

Style can be smart and important,
however. Who could forget the inti-
mate portrayal of Betty Friedan pub-
lished this summer? Where else could
one follow the demise of the
government’sarts agency? Where else
could one read of the Log Cabin Re-
publicans?

Congratulations are in order. The
Washington Post has a lot to be proud
of. Its Style section is remarkable.
exciting, and new.

Reporters are perfectionists. They
almost never are entirely happy with
what they produce. But I think I speak
for the entire journalistic community
when I say that the Style section gets it
right.

They do it well, and they do it con-

your readers.

tations. Ann Landers gives advice to a

sistently. Not many of us can say that.

Jewel will save your soil and open
for Edwin t\/IcCain tonigiit at [Ire Pavilion.
Doors open at 9:00 p.m., and the Show
starts at 9:30. A beer garden will be
available for tiiose with ID. Ticieels are 

in advance, and $8 at tire (Ioor.

SUDDEN DEATH:
‘NEVER QUITEALIVE

Kirk Susong
Phi Reviewer

,, There are at least_two types ofaction flicks: those that you
will want to see more than once, and those that even once
seems like a few too many times. The former category
includes movies like Die Hard or Cliffhanger, the latter,
unfortunately, includes Sudden Death.

Jean-Claude Van Damme is fire marshal Darren McCord

‘I at the ‘Igloo,’ where the Pittsburgh Penguins are playing the
Black Hawks in the ﬁnal game ofthe Stanley Cup. But the
Vice-Presidenthasdeeidedtoattendthegameintheowner’s
box, and badthings ensue. Acrazed ex-Secret Service agent
decides to take the Veep hostage, plant bombs around the

g arena, and demand that the U.S. government shuffle money
between various bank accounts.

This sounds like a pretty straight-forward movie, right?
In fact, if that were all there was to the plot, and it was
executed well-enough, we might have a pretty good film

intimate characterizations or complex plot twists; its well-
executed simplicity was part of its success. But apparently
the people behind Sudden Death don’t like things so simple.

‘ * They have thought up a number of needless devices to make

the film supposedly “more interesting,” although in reality
" they just detract from the action. _

For example, the chief agent on the case. whose job it is

to protect the Vice-President, is actually a traitor. But it

W._.. g,__ t.

A’

here. For example, Under Siege was hardly a movie full of

doesn’t matterone little bit in the movie’s terms, because the
notion of a traitor agent is never explored; he gets killed a
few minutes after we find out. Or take another example.
Van Damme is an ex-firefighter who quit hisjob because of
the trauma he faced when a little girl died in his arms. So
what? Do we ever see this resurface in the movie? No. The
incident is mentioned once or twice, but in no way does this
trauma ever affect Van Damme or his actions. Undoubtedly
the film-makers want this to make the film more complex,
but instead itjust muddles the plot.

Would you like another example ofthis silliness? At one
point, Van Damme is actually required to suit up as a
Penguin and play in thegame. Although his only experience
was as a semi-pro a decade previously in Canada, he is able
to make the “save ofthe season” to keep the Penguins in the
game! Somehow the writer is able to work this into the plot.
but to top it all off. after making the huge crucial play, he
signals to his little boy in the stands and tells him how much
he loves him! Whatever. Quite simply. the writing is
atrocious, though I suppose that is to be expected from
writer Gene Quintano. whose previous movies include
quality films like H()II(.'vW)I()()II Acudcniy and N(IIl()II(ll
Lampoon ’s Loaded Weapon.

But ifthatshould’ve been expected. then what I certainly
didn’t foresee was the poor action cinematography Direc-
tor and cinematographer Peter llyams worked with Van

Damme in last year’s Timccop. For all the problems that
film had, at least it provided us with some entertaining fight
sequences.

Tit” 'vt"i~‘iV st‘/"u - ‘ ‘ tr ’"

blood pumping if we were connected to a machine. There
is very little ofthe gymnastics we expect from Van Damme.
Admittedly there are a few good fights, but they simply
don’t live up to the quality Jean-Claude can deliver. Too
many ofthe sequences have an interesting premise, but then
don’t deliver on credibility——like when Van Damme dc-
cides to storm the owner’s box. Maybe we would believe
getting in via air ducts or by posing as a bad guy. But there
is simply no way even he could swing around on the huge
lamps which hang down from the ceiling, then miraculously
ride an overhead camera to the box. If he had showed us his
incredible athleticism instead of relying on fortuitous cir-
cumstances to resolve the problem, the movie would have
been a lot better.

The one highlight of the movie is Powers Boothe, who
plays demented terrorist Joshua Foss. Boothe is certainly
not afraid to typecast himself as the asocial type, whether in
Nixon or Tombstone. Perhaps this dates from his Emmy-
winning performance as cult leader Jim Jones in Guyana
Tragedy. which still pops up on TBS now and then. What-
ever motivated him in this direction, it was a good move.
because he is excellent in these roles. Here he gives the most
likable and realistic performance of the movie. despite his
being the character who is least accessible to the audience
member.

lixcept for Boothes convincing and downright cool
portrayal of the bad guy. this film is no good. I saw it at a
second-run theater. and I still feel like I got taken fora ride.
lfyou can‘! get a few others to chip in forthe cost ofthe Video

tr “mt-.x.

 

ROCK

Morning Ma2.7:00—8:45 a.m.: M) Jon
Redenbaugh, John Farringer, Wes
Armstrong; T) Eric Zavolinsky, David
Foster;W) Ben Didier, Mutt Holbrook; Th)
Charles Allen, Justin Pfeiﬂer; F) Matthew
Patrick, Robert Tucker. Classic Rock
2:00-4:00 p.m.: M) Stan Roberts; W) James
Angelo,Greg Chow; F) Ramey Harris,
Janna Pellegrino; Sat) Greg Pimentel, Noah
Levy, Will Hershey (9:00—11:00 a.m.).
Future History, 2:00-4:00 D.m.: T) Jenny
A u; Th) Chris Baldwin, James Urban.
Breakthrough.4:00-5:45 p.m.: M) Erik
Holbrook, Chas Frank; T) Jenni Robison
W) Tyson Hilton, Dan Rushing; Th) Chris
Kane, Brett Whitaker. College Music
Journal Highlights, 4:00-5:45 p.m.:

F) Note Tcncza. Sundays: Rock) Jason
Treat, Jeﬂ Woodbury (2:00-4:00 p.m.);
My Favorite Band) rotating dj’s (10:0()
p.m.—12:00 a.m.).

JAZZ

9:00-11:15 a.m.: M)Anna Bentley; W) not
yet assigned... 12:00-2:00 p.m.: Th)
Nathaniel Hagar; F) Tom Leggett, Aaron
Wilkinson. 8:00-10:00 pm: T) Mac
Jennings; Th) Ryan Bremer; Sun) Elizabeth
Yost, Robert Hughes

 

 

COUNTRY

12:00-2:00 p.m.: M) CharlesAllen; T)
Justin Telchick, David Laiwr”ence,Jason
Cox; W) Sunda Wells, Emily F rampton,
Will Townes, Rich Walter; Sun) Doug
Hartog, Forrest Stewart.

CLASSICAL

9:00-11:15 a.m.: T) Craig McCang/zrin;
Th) Sean Li/idly; F) not yet assigned...
6:00-8:00 p.m.: M) Kerry Dunphy; T)
Trevor Cox, Josh Harvey; W) Ron
Nicbo; Th) Eric Kessel; F) Michael
Leaser; Sun) Matt Socha, Andrew Higgs.

DANCE/RAP

8:00-10:00 p.m.: M) Dan Odenwald, Lisa
Ackerman; W) Raymond Hall; F) Willie
Polaski, Tom Becker.

8 PECIALTY
SHOWS

10:00 .m.-12:00 a.m.: M) Charlie Mason,
Jagger Harvey; T) Dan Vesay; W) Scott
Schneider, Ed Chun; Th) Kelly Totten,
Margaret Rich; F) Bill Overbaugh. ﬂir_d
Ear 12:00-2:00 a.m.: M) Brugh Foster,
Phil Barrett; T) Wild Bo & The Oultaw; W)
Adam Avitable; Th) Brian Casto; F) Alex
Christensen; Sun) Robert Hough. &gh_t
Owl Blues, 6:00-9:00 p.m.: Sat) Wayne
Raynal. Anti-Headache Medicine, 9:00
p.m.—12:00 a.m.: Sat) Doug Harwood.

TiNSF°lR'
ATIONAL

7:00-9:00 a.m.: Sat) John Wilbers:
Sun)Tamara Watkins. l2:00-3:00 a.m.:
Jason .\‘o1‘cns. CLtlit_‘.' .\lertitt.

 

 

 

 

    

PAGE 4

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

“Greeks” include men, too

Tim Burke, fraternal law expert, gave an
eye—opening speech Tuesday night in Lee
Chapel. Unfortunately, the people who needed
to hear it most neglected to come.

Sorority pledges and actives piled in, fill-
ing the middle section of pews. But the num-
ber of fraternity men in Lee Chapel would not
have reached from one end of the pew to an-
other. _

Anyone in a Greek organization would
have benefitted from Burke’s speech. Most
were surprised to hear that Greek members and
officers can be held liable if a party-goer has an
accident after drinking alcohol at a fraternity
party or sorority function.

So where were the people who throw the
majority of these parties? Sororities have par-
ties where alcohol is offered only every few
months, and then only through a cash bar to
those of legal age. Fraternities throw parties
and serve alcohol nearly every week, regardless
of the age of their guests.

Fraternity members needed to hear Burke’s
message more than sorority members did. Not
that they are any more predisposed to act irre-
sponsibly than sorority members, they simply
have more opportunities.

Burke spoke of the liabilities that come
with hazing. W&L sororities have never been
known for harmful hazing practices. Again, this
is not a judgement of character, but of opportu-
nity. Sororities have a six—week pledgeship;
fraternities go for ten.

Yet in spite of all these reasons for frater-
nity men to show up, they simply didn’t. The
fliers hung prior to his speech advertised an
expert in fraternal law. By the looks of the
audience, only one sex on this campus cares
about it.

Quote of the Week

“We did not invade Panama, by the Way. We had
a ‘pre—dawn vertical insertion.’...I thought that’s
what happens after Fancy Dress.”

—A W&L professor describing
the evils of double-speak

fill‘ Il'.'flllllll1llll'llllf  -

' I I’

l (f Com,“ C,,(‘5\,<l,~y.~-just" ocftw mow. wales -  Codlrées otmd ‘‘
rpttl be «srslovs .jwoo-wwwxkul-1

The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996

The ’96 Vote Republican Textbook »~

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

For all you casual campaign watch-
ers (i.e. those with lives) who want to
sound well-informed in the month be-
fore Mock Convention, I present my
first, and only, primary primer, guar-
anteed to give you the edge in those
pesky politics discussions that pop up
over drinks.

Let’s start with the candidates. First
on the list has to be Senate Republican
Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, the front-
runner from the start (having run for
President three times before). Dole
presents himself as the candidate with
the experience and leadership quali-
ties to be President. He has largely
succeeded in cutting offunited conser-
vative opposition by tacking to the
right over the past year, although his
opponents attack him for a penchant
toward deal-making. His recent lack-
luster response to Clinton’s SOTU
address has left many Republicans
convinced he can’t win on his own
merits, something he may implicitly
beacknowledgingin his rumored pleas
for Colin Powell to be his VP.

Next comes Malcolm S. “Steve”
Forbes, Jr. His campaign has grown out of
the Republican Party’s supply-side eco-
nomicwing, and he relentlessly advocates
the ﬂat tax. Forbes isfrnancing nearly allof
his campaign out of his personal fortune,
and his huge expenditures on hard-hitting
TV commercials have propelled his mete-
oric rise to second-place nationally, al-
though he has recently drawn fire for his
more moderate stances on social issues.

The only other candidate with a
shot at winning is Texas Senator Phil
Gratnm, who has the most focused
conservative message. Gramm has run
on a record that includes the Gramm-
Rudman deficit reduction act and early
opposition to the Clinton health-care

plan. His relentless and uncompromis-
ing campaigning has drawn fire from
his rivalsandthernediabuthas seemed
to help him in his quest to build an
activist constituency that will help him
exceed early expectations and propel
him into the national spotlight as the
conservative alternative to Bob Dole.

Others in the race include Pat
Buchanan, who possesses a dedicated
nativist and social conservative con-
stituency but is far too harsh to win;
Alan Keyes, an eloquent but unknown
blackconserva-
tive with the
purest appeal to
religious con-
s e r v a t i v e s;
L a m a r
Alexander, 21
former gover-
nor of Tennes-
see who has
built his
uninspiring
candidacy on a
plaid shirt and
an outsider im-
age; Richard
Lugar, a sena-
tor whose for-
eign-policy fo-

image.

~cus, lack of

money, and obscure status will be lucky
to win his home state of Indiana; and
MorryTaylor, anothermillionaire busi-
nessman who likes to be called “The
Griz.”

The biggest early contests are the 2/
12 caucuses in Iowa and the 2/20 pri-
mary in New Hampshire. Contrary to
popular belief. these two states are a
greatone—two indicator olillrimary sen-
timent. Iowa‘scontest is largely domi-
nated by social conser‘vati\'es‘. and its
intricate precinct-based system rewards
organization and dedication. Bad
weather could be a major aid to
Grammishard—core constituencythere.
New llampshire offers a more popular

_..__,.-_.__ 7; __

Others in the race
include...Lamar
Alexander, a
governorof TN who has
built his uninspiring
candidacy on a plaid
shirt and an outsider

primary, which emphasizes both per-
sonal and media-based campaigning
and allocates delegates proportionally,
based on the candidates’ vote percent-
age.
Polls show Dole and Forbes as one-
two in both states. Two big questions
will be whether Forbes’ candidacy has
peaked in New Hampshire and can
mobilize caucus-goers in Iowa. Dole
is expected to win both, so an upset or
close results in either will seriously
hurt his campaign. Gramm’s candi-
dacy will contend
for an upset 2nd-
place in Iowa and
a strong enough
3rd or 4th-place
showing in New
Hampshire to
avoid dismissal.

H o w e v e r ,
while Iowa and
New Hampshire
draw the most at-
tention, it may be
other states that
provide the best
indicators of who
the nominee will
be. Two states
have mounted so-
rious challenges to become early play-
ers: Louisiana and Delaware. Louisi-
ana will hold caucuses on 2/6. Al-
though it has drawn little attention
since Dole and Forbes are ignoring the
contest, Louisiana offers more del-
egates than New Hampshire. Gramm is
favored there over Buchanan and Keyes
and must win fairly substantially to have
any shot at the nomination.

Delaware will hold a winner-take-
all primary on 2/24 and has pulled off
the ingenious maneuver of putting all
the candidates on the ballot whether
they attempt to qualify there or not.
Polls have shown Forbes tied with
Dole in DE. and Gramm needs a strong
showing there too.

0771187‘

Arizona, North Dakota, and South
Dakota hold primaries on the 2/27.
Arizona’s is winner-take-all and will
be a key battleground between Gramm
and Forbes, with Dole likely to finish
no better than 2nd. Although Gramm
has the backing of most major Repub-
licans there, polls have shown Forbes
leading. Gramm and Dole have fought
hard in South Dakota, and the results
there will be critical if either fails to

perform up to expectations in other

states.

South Carolina’s 3/2 primary is piv-
otal to Gramm, who depends on beat-
ing Dole in the conservative South, the
heart of the Republican Party.
Georgia’s 3/5 primary will also be a
key indicator of Southern sentiment.

The conservative constituency of
Minnesota’s 3/5 caucuses makes it al-
most a lock for Gramm, while the
labyrinthineballot lawsin New York’s
3/7 primary have made it almost a one-
on-one showdown between Dole, sup-
ported overwhelmingly by the state
party, and Forbes.

Most reports show Gramm leading
in Maryland’s 3/5 primary, where he
hopes to capture delegates and Gain
momentum for “Super Tuesday, the
conglomerate of delegate-rich South-
ern primaries (including FL, TX, MS,
TN, and OK) that take place on 3/12.

Afterthat, Gramm’s campaign will
either be ahead or dead. Forbes has the
money to press Dole in the later prima-
ries, but the Midwestern primaries on
3/l9 (in IL, Ml, OH, and WI) and the
grand—daddy CA primary on 3/26 will
likely resolve the fight.

If it’s suspense you want, there’s
the excitingbutunlikely scenario where
Dole, Forbes, and Gramm prevent each
other from achieving a majority ofthe
GOP convention’s 1.988 delegates. In
that case, the deal-rnaking will be a
sight to behold.

Get some popcorn and some bever-
ages, save this article, and enjoy the ride.

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬁhi

EXCCUHVC Ediloﬁ Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
' News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor smut Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young, Courtney E Miller
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists.. Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallaoe
Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Genner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail pIri@wIu.cdu

Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

Headline get your attention? .

That’s the point, and it’s also the point ofthe title
of Al Franken’s wonderful new book,Rush Limbaugh
Is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations.

As Franken himself says of the title, “Have you
ever noticed how all newspaper composite pictures
of wanted criminals resemble Jesse Jackson?” No,
wait. That’s actually a horribly racist thing Rush
Limbaugh said in Newsday on October 8, 1990.

What Franken actually said was, ‘‘I thought the
title, aside from the obvious advantage of being
personally offensive to Limbaugh, would sell books.
Let me explain why: It makes fun ofRush Limbaugh
by pointing out that he is a big lardbutt.”

Whichisexactlywhatitdoes,amongotherthings.
lthink you’ll agree it’s about time. And after reading
the book, which I urge you in the strongest terms to
do, I think you’ll agree that Al Franken is the perfect
person to do it.

For those of you who have somehow managed to
miss Al Franken, he’s a writer for Saturday Night
Live, and has been since its inception. He is respon-
sible for some of the most savagely funny political
satire of the television era, from Chevy Chase’s
bumbling Gerald Ford to Dan Aykroyd’s paranoid
Nixon, egghead Carter and caustic Dole, from Phil
Hartman’s genial Reagan and self-loathing Clinton
to Dana Carvey’s goofy George Bush. And he’s still
going strong with a brilliant new cast (gratuitous
SNL endorsement). You may also know him as the
performer who portrayed Pat Robertson (W&L ’50)
in I988 and Paul Tsongas in I092. as well as the sell’-
help expert Stuart Smalley on the small and big
screens. (Stuart Srrrcs His Frrmily is one of the most
underrated movies ever.)

And Franken also displays in the book a real depth of

knowledge about Limbaugh. and his tactics and an almost
uncanny understanding of his character.
But if you’re expecting an unadulterated bash-

.“Bob Doleis Night-

Limbaugh—fest, you may be disappointed. While
Franken’s jokes and points are on-target and very
funny. they aren’t confined to Limbaugh. Franken
also roasts such other “big fat hypocrite[s]” as Newt
Gingrich. Dole. Pat Buchanan, Phil Gramm, George
Will. Ollie North.
Clarence Thomas,
and Dan Quayle. In
his chapter entitled
“ O p e r a t i o n
Chickenhawk,” he
sends these not--so-
famousdraft-dodg-
ers to the dark
jungles of ’Nam to
see what might have
happened if any of
them had actually
been there during
the Vietnam War.
“Pat Buchanan
[was 4-F]...had a
bad knee. He spent
the war writing
speeches forNixon.
Interestingly. he is
now an avidjogger.
logs regularly. I un-
derstand."

/\ few more
chapter titles may
suffice to suggest
the nature of the
book: “Gingrich:
Sex, Giraffes. and
Weightlessncss."

mareol'Depravity."
“The Reagan
Years: Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Liar.” “Phil
Gramm: liverybody‘s Favorite Bastard." “Pat
Buchanan: .\Ja7.i Lover,“ and “Bill Clinton: Greatest
President of the 'I\\'entieth Century.”

/\nd lest those seem so broad that you might give

up on the book, you should be aware that the whole
perfect, vicious point ofthe book is notjust to call Rush
Limbaugh a big fat idiot (‘‘I wouldn’t, for example,
attempt to create a psychological construct to explain why
a desperately insecure man would weigh three hundred
pounds and have diffi-
culty sustaining intimate
relationships.
Psychobabble mumbo
jumbo doesn’t interest
me, and I would never
suggest that a difﬁcult
separation from the pri-
mary love object at an
early age might cause a
man to hate women and
look to food as a substi-
tute for the mother’s
teat”), but also to lam-
poon Limbaugh’s
whole slash-and-burn
style, which produces
much heat but little
light.

Not that it’s not
nasty. You can learn
about when Limbaugh
spenthis daysinside his
house eating govern-
ment-finance junk
food, too lazy to mow
his own lawn. You can
learn why Rush
Limbaugh never voted
for Ronald Reagan.
You can learn how
Newt Gingrich left his
family to be taken care
of by the local church
charity while he was formulating his theories on
family values, and just how often our great family
valueschampionslikc Gingrich, Dole,Gramm, Pete
Wilson. and George Will have been married (once
less than Rush Limbaugh).

 

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996

‘Divorce and disillusionment

MDREAM LAND

Richard Weaver

l’ll bet you’re still pretty upset by

at the recent news of the break-up of

K

Michael Jackson and Lisa Marie
Presley. As an honorary member of
the Jackson family, I was shocked and
saddened by the announcement, and,
in the name of News, I wanted to know
what others in the community thought
about it.

What better place to gauge commu-

nity reaction than the new Stop-In/
Burger Kin g/Baskin-Robbins complex

3 in Buena Vista. The Buena Vista Stop-

In puts the LexingtonStop-Intoshame,

ifthat is possible. The floors are white,

the aisles are wide, the hot dogs are

hot. They even sell Valentine’s Day
‘ teddy bears.

I asked Wanda, the attendant, what

she thought about the J ackson-Presley look.

nuptials.

“I don’t want to
c o m m e n t , ”
Wanda said.

With a little
more coaxing, I
got Wanda to ex-
pand on that.

‘‘I don’t care; I
like country mu-
sic, myself,”
Wanda said.

I soon moved
over to the dining
area of the com-
plex, where I
spoke with

Vernon and Billy. They were having a

“What do you think about Michael

Vernon gave me kind of a strange

I
a

What better place to
gauge community re- 5
action than the new
Stop-In/BurgerKing/
Baskin-Robbins com-
plex in Buena Vista.

late Burger King lunch.

“Excuse me, but do you own
Thriller?” I asked.

    
 

1361

TAR   DETAILS:

77

added. Billy nodded again. Stunned
by their answers, I drifted over to the
Burger King counter.

“Welcome to Burger King-may
I take your order?” the cashier

U

h

freak,” Vernon

nodded his
head in agree-
ment. About
his marriage to
Lisa Marie: “I

whattheirkids
would look
like,” Vernon

ackson?” I
s k e d ,

nfazed.
“He’s a

aid. Billy

ate to see

asked.

“What do you think about the pend-
ing divorce of Michael Jackson and
Lisa Marie Presley?” I asked her.

“(silence)” she answered. This was
getting to be depressing. Reva, at the
Baskin-Robbins counter, also had no
opinion.

I went back to Wanda to ask her if
she had any advice for Michael and
Lisa Marie to fix their marriage,

‘‘I don’t know how to answer that,”
she said.

It turned out that the people at the
Stop-In/Burger King/Baskin-Robbins
were pretty apathetic.
disillusioned about the whole thing.
That’s the problem with this country;
nobody cares anymore.

Will I ever go back to the Buena

I left pretty

Vista Stop-In? Sure. ' I just hope that

when I marry Lisa Marie, reaction will
be more positive.

PAGE 5

    
 

:.

   
   
    

  NOEXPERIENCE
NECESSARY!
RUSH LONG 593855

C216:

‘ﬂuannwwmon FL asazo

m Iii 

 

 

 

Correction

In the “Robert Bork critiques
,‘Supreme Court” story of the Janu-
ary 26 issue of TheRing-tum Phi,
we incorrectly named a univer-
sity. It was Yale University who
turned back the $25 million dona-
tron.

The
Ring—tum
Phi

We have
award-winning
journalists on

staff.

  

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Senior Cocktail Party

The senior cocktail party has been
postponed until Friday, March 15
from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Alumni
House. Non-refundable tickets are
available by advance sale only.
Tickets will be sold outside the Co-
Op from Wednesday to Friday
March 6-8 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
each day. You can still charge the
$10 fee home. If you have already
bought your ticket, you need not
reregister. If you have any questions,
please call Justin King (463-8464) and
let him know.

Phi Eta Sigma

Phi Eta Sigma will award nation-
wide 5 scholarships of $2,000 each for
graduate study during 1996-7. Gradu-
ating seniors who are members of Phi
Eta Sigma are eligible to apply. Call
Dean West-Settle at X8748 on or before
Feb. 9 if you wish to apply.

Oxford Exchange

Washington and Lee is one of six
area schools that sponsor a summer
program of study at St. Anne’s College,
Oxford, England. The Virginia Pro-
gram at Oxford follows the English
tutorial system and studies the subject
areasofliteratureand history ot'Tudor-
Stuart England. Dates are July 1 to
August 10,1996. Application deadline
is March 1,1996. There is some schol-
arship aid available. See Prof. Pamela
Simpson in the Art Dept. or call 8857
for more infomation.

CDPO News

Therewillbean interviewingwork—
shop on Monday, February 5 at 4 p.m.
in Room 109 ofthe University Center.
All students are invited to attend.

There will be an internship work-
shop for communications majors and
those interested in obtaining intem—
ships in the communications field on
Tuesday, February 6 at 4:30 p.m. in the

Career Development Office.

Seniors: Don’t miss the newest
recruiting and interviewing oppor-
tunities with the Career Develop-
ment Ofﬁce. Included are positions
in publishing, banking, consulting,
paralegal and teaching. Most of
these have FEBRUARY 16 dead-
lines so stop by soon to get details.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of Burnt by the Sun
(Russia, 1994), directed by Nikita
Mikhalkov.

Screenings will be on Friday and
Saturday, February 2 and 3, at 8:05
p.m. in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is not charge for admission.
This film is in Russian, with En-
glish subtitles.

Screening Program

Losingweightisonething. Los-
ing perspective is another. Attend
the first National Eating Disorders
Screening Program Wednesday,
Feb. 7, 4 p.m. in the University
Center, Room 109. For more infor-
mation call the Health Education
office at 462-4501.

Support Group

Interested in joining a six-ses-
sion support group? Open to any-
one who has experienced the death
of a family member or friend. The
focus will be on learning how to
handlcthelossand changesithrings.
Call Health Education at 462-4501
to sign-up or for more information.

Lacrosse Team

The Men’s Lacrosse team needs
managers and a video filmer who
are willing travel. They offer the
possiblity of PE credit and cash
earnings. Contact Coach Anderson
at 463-8477.

February W96

Sunday Monday Tuesday WednesdayThursday Friday Saturday

* Black History Month

8 p.m., Trouba-
dour Film - Burnt
by the Sun

1

2

9 p.m., Pavillion SAB
Band - Edwin McCain and

8 p.m., Trouba-
dour Film - Burnt
by the Sun

5 p.m. Women’s Basket-
ball vs. Villa Julie

tact Speaker P.J.
O’Rourke

7 p.m. Lee Chapel Con-

Screening

Cornel West

* 7 p.m. Lee Chapel MSA -

College
Faust

Safe

Board of Trustees Alumni
8 p.m., Lenfest Theatre -

8 p.m. Troubadour Film -

Jewel 7:30 p.m. Men’s Basket-
ball vs. Mennonite wNV&L
Groundhog Day Dancers
7:30 p.m. Men’s 7 p.m. Women’s 4 p.m. Health 10 GHQ Board of Trustees
4 Basketball vs. 5 Basketball vs. 6 Education pre- 7 8 Eliszgnééh Cutler 9 A|umni Conege 1 O
Randolph-Macon Bridgewater sents Healthy

8 p.m. Lenfest Theatre
- Faust

8 p.m., Troubadour
Film - Safe

2 p.m., Lenfest
Theatre - Faust

11

2 p.m., Lenfest
Theatre - Faust

12

7 p.m. Women’s
Basketball vs. VA
Wesleyan

lecture

Store for You

13

7: 30 p.m. Lee Chapel
Gertrude Himmelfarb

* 8 p.m., GHQ MSA -
There '5 Something in

Va/entine’s Day 1 4

15

16

17

7 p.m., Lenfest
FAIR: Rockbridge
Modern Dance
Ensemble

18

President's Day 1 9

Un derg

20

graduate

N

Washiri
‘o Classe

21

S

22

gram Hoiiday -

25

Undergraduate
Classes Resume

26

8 p.m., Lenfest
Center Concert
Guild - Camerata
of Israel

27

8 p.m., Lenfest
Series
Capitol Steps

8 p.m., Lenfest
Series
Capitol Steps

Z8

29

24

“Black American
Leaders” display in

case in Library  

 

 

PAGE 6 . ADVERTISEMENTS The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996 ’

.  
GIVE US TIME TO REPAY

WINTER SALE
YOUR |-°AN- 50% off all Fall and

    

    

\‘

Get On The internet
Hi Ram Computer Systems introduces

 
 

    

After just three years in - -
theArmy,yourcollege loan Wlnter F as hlo "S at
couldbeathingofthepast. . 1 Pow
ﬁnder the Amys Loan Shop early for best selectzon Wm
Repayment program, each uia‘n\e ‘:0 ‘ Keying rd
year you wrve on active duty 2 8
1 reduces your indebtedness by 4 m [3 R3; in ' 00 Mod
- .» V onettiird o.r$1,500,wl1ichever 5'40m6ursr=éa¥:ie *0 ?23W=§ MN“; eh‘!
, \ ’ ’ amount is eater, u to a .
‘  355,g0(}]i,§;I.L p 09 0 0 ”«?rd pr}, D 03/9’ I :1 If OW:
This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans ‘'9

and certain other federaiiy insured loans which are not
in defauit

And this is just the first of many benefits the Army
will give you. Getthe whole story from your Army

14" color Monitor

Mini Tower Case with

23 N. Main Street
Hours: Monday - Saturday} 0:00 - 5:30

\ 
 

  
 

  
 
  
   
  
    

   

 

Recruiter.   a 9 “M “ E‘‘g:;':‘°'‘ R'"’''’
(703) 886-26“ Be;3o:::;:::h:;t:;::;<;::::::°::;t;::“:;$t§:,;t, l‘\'\,'$‘{‘(I>g'T;<¢$ﬂa99.0o
ARMY. as ALI. YOU cm BEE‘ "N”Re"°§?53“pi§f‘£2’3f§§;‘5“s§fii3ff'282373°‘   

E000O000000000O00OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOE g,  ‘
: 7/’42%g2&p0‘45 1  champion mesh '
:  M  :  shorts

3 7,0,,“-mm W“; 5444“ 2 in forest green

3 2 and Vegas gold *
° : ‘ 15_w washington street

:  S.  st, : V  lexmgton va 24450  V

E O O O I O O O O O O O  O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 0 E   I‘ F ‘v

 
  
       
      
  
 

5 17 South Main Street 463-9730 '3 r V
Our Best Warehouse Sale 

$3 - $5 - $7 Racks

Bring in your student ID and
get an '
EXTRA 20% off
Sale and Regluar Prices 9
‘ Hundreds ofother Items "
Reduced Greatly 4

Put your face in the yearbook!

Drop off pictures of you and yourfriends infront of
Carol Caulkir1’s office in the University Center

      
     

Please limit contributions to those taken during the 1995-96 school year.

  

 
 

 

   
        

 

   

  

    

V  ~  " ‘ - V V _ Sale Ends Sat. Februaryi 
SUMMER J  - «Hours: E95530’ - 5:30 Monday 9 Slaturdaif .
LEE 4 "
WASHINGTON AND
°°““j°‘§i‘y"§.f‘3{u§E‘s‘$’§’eis»S§§°"’s 9   S a FREE FINANCIAL AID
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school _ » _ _ 9 n . $Attention Alsl sgudexlztss ‘dc Over $6 Billion ﬁn aid y
Students in Graham_Lees dorrnitory and plan evening .anC.1 weekend 9 '  I   FREE Mmlleyhls (furi-1‘1:miiyvi]1l,ealsl:<l:Jt11":1foEaS:i:g:ch:la:li:pS.a/Sllstdddnls are eligible to
a§ti‘1,i9t9ie6S' Ten positions are available. Application deadline 15 February » ' lsecnc:)i‘\:,eas‘:)ari1: scfrt r(())f aid, regardless ogf grades, income, or paren1s’s income. Let us help you.
2 3 - H i For more information, call:
Special Programs Resident Assistants . . = : 2 Student Financial Services
June 12 - August 3, 1996 - A  -''A'''‘ ' 3
The Office of Special Programs employs fo1urW&L studelntcsi to s:1rve as ' - . ' - ‘  Z I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
hosts/hostesses forawide variety of Specia Programs inc u ing umm . V o 9 i u n I I I u I n I I u n I u I I
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. lguties include failitiis        t E
management and housekeeping, receptions, an transportation. pp 1-  A _ _ ‘V 1
cation Deadline is March 15, 1996. . :    ; : ”
For further information, please Contact the Office of Special . _ 9 A _ _ . . :
Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.   3.   3  :
Rewarding, exciting surnlmer for college .sot1)1l11o1nor1e1 arégl 01:15:‘: -      E ,
students — camp counse or positions avaia e 111 ‘ _e or _o 1- = , . 9
Rockies Backpacl<ing.dWestern riding. Vvélater §1;t11t\)I1ot1es.“r]1at:1ral _   d I   Q _ G 6    E
sciences and many out oor programs. rite: m es em . H : __. _ Z ' _ 9 V 9 V V - ‘Z’ _ *
Camps. P.O. Box 167. Flonssant, co 80816 9  ‘  : 8 am _ 3 pm _ Monday 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII: ;    -. §8am-1?f)m—T;e‘sjday-sThur:day :
I   .  _ .. ' I am— pm- r1ay- auray I
: .   E     E 9am-3Pm-Sunday :7-
. _z;.v I » . . _ I I I
I ‘K ““~ I  3  I z  ‘ - I :
: : oI.1:;ruoon.FL 33020 : Wmayg  _
: D0’/lyz, Let : N : All you can eat $4.99 : ’
I ' I :
: Your  E : Thursday — 10% off food — with student ID :
- Go Hungry : - . _ :
: , 9 _ V V , , I : Frlday — Seafood Nite — n V
I .  __ .   I I ' L *9“  . , T t :
: V  S  -- t  S : Li : Saturd'1y -  P:ii1?c Rilvlmp mu '
: 0 The $1()0_M 1T1ck  _ :p   : ﬂiestaurant an ._- 2 Vcgsg SM $8.95 5
:   E .7'[055ie)5£z0lL71(qe : Everyday Muffin & Cup of Coffee $1.50 5 “
' A ,-12,‘,   .1  =: . Z I : (8 am - 10 9.111) -
: 9   0.0074‘ ‘ l ' ' D.'l L h s ‘.1 ":1 1)~' k $4.50 I
:   A  .9 : Rome 7’ BOX 99A : '11 y unc pecm w1 1 11n I
=     9   . . : “”"i“8‘0“» ‘“‘gl“”‘ 24450 i 19 W» Washin.:~’t<>n ~‘3.t-.~.1».C.;*in.9£<.>I:».‘.//i 2.4.4.59. . . . : ’
: Nutritious Muffins & Egg Speczaltzes : Near the Horse Center ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '
: SF7‘€;h 521610: (15);! S0_“P5 E t : Phone 464-9499
- Hearty an wic es exzcan n rees : ﬂ
: Candlelight Diners ' , t 9 [lug aw
= 5 R i""i‘§‘T§1p§§;./".305;‘§a§;m 7   
. as 1111‘ - ' I »
I 0 I
: Glve Your  : TEACH ENGLISH IN <O‘REF/\— Positions available rrontnly. B./‘\.g~o’J/E§:‘,>.} Hardware Paint and Related Items , 4
, Y 9
I k d M 1  Our ' degree required. US $ 5,oOO—25,400/yr. Actorruooianoru & rm it in 9
' a Homecoo e ea I ' 5 51 *9 M1 loma and copy of oaseporr, to:
I ' . : a'rfar.6 pr0V'd6d' an '”;Um5';dOW1%4_1p55am5UH Wm KW Wm GU Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 am. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. I
: Polnt Card ' Bok Jl C0prp0rat|.On'ChUn Em  ‘  Q d  G ’ E. Nelson St. Lexin ton 463-2186‘ '
. . I Seoul, Korea 155 O90. a g
: 19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 . TEL: OH_82_2_555_JOB5(5627) FAX: on_g2_2-552-4;/W4529; ~,
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

~ « .- »~ sax‘-.-»..:-.»

 

. ..... ...-.vvv:-
. . . . . ...-., 1.-.~.~..-...nr->5-‘n a'i5au¢.a'-I on -annar
-_- .—--..-.-..-.-....-v.-¢.~.---.-.--v-....~...-.~<a acct’-

’. 0' "A p‘ ‘n

'n"n-"-'3F‘¥‘EP't..'in'V|"In"o

'a.“!n".'."An“\ui'k"-n"nu"n'.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996

ATHLETES OF THE WEEK

      

Nathan Hottle

Men’s Swimming

Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Indoor Track

Schaeffer smashed her school record in the
5000 meter run with a time of 17:49.90 Saturday
at East Tennessee State. The senior provisionally
qualified for the NCAA Division III champion-
ships March 8-9 at Baldwin—Wallace College.

Hottle captured the 200 freestyle and the
200 breaststroke Saturday at a double dual
meet with Sewanee and Transylvania. The
junior has earned a provisional bid for the
NCAA s in the 100 and 200 breaststroke.

TIPS ON HOW TO KEEP
UP WITH EXCITING
CAMPUS ACTIVITES

1. Pick up your own copy of the

new W&L Entertainment

Calendar, available in the co—op, li-
brary, University Center, and

Washington Hall.

2. Check out the W&L Homepage on
the Web. Under Student Activites,
there is calendar of W&L events

that is updated each-month.-«www 

3. Be sure to get a Student Organi-
zations Directory, available in the
University Center. This is a
complete listing of all organiza-
tions, their officers, and other
pertinent information.

4. ATTENTION organization officers
and members: Don t forget to fre-
quently check your club mailboxes
located in the University
Center. You could be missing im-
portant information.

PAGE 7

Generals get back on track
afterlosingt to Guilford

By CHRIS l’uosi.i=.Y
P/If StaffWrilcr

‘ The Washington and Lee Generals women’s basketball
team dropped another defeat to the Guilford Quakers Satur-
day afternoon, 69-39, at the Warner Center.

The Quakers (11-5, 8-5 ODAC) began the contest with
a 31-5 run that lasted for aspan of almost twelve minutes,
holding the Generals without a field goal for five minutes.

Senior co-captain Sandra llolmes broke the scoring
drought with a short turnaroundjumperat the fifteen minute
mark of the first half. ‘

But the tempo ofthe game clearly favored the fast-break
oriented Quakers. The Generals’ 23 first halfturnovers led
to 48 first half points for the Quakers, who were led by 11
points each from Bari Nixon and Lauren Haynes.

Guilford hit on 45 percent of their shots, including a
three-point ﬁeld goal, and it hit 92 percent of their free
throws inthe first half, compared to adismal 14 percentfrom
the field and 65 percent from the charity stripe for the
Generals. These events culminated in a 48-17 halftime
bulge for the Quakers.

The second half seemed promising for the Generals,
beginning with a l()—0 run and an eight minute scoring
drought for the. Quakers.

Just when one thought it would be safe for the Generals,
sophomore Marija Preimats hit a three-point bucket to
extend the Quaker lead to 24 and put the final nail in the
Generals’ coffin.

 

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
(800) 95-BREAK!

A valiant effort in the last six minutes came up short for
Washingtonand Lee, and the Quakers took home the vic-
tory, 69-39. '

Holmes paced the Generals with 11 points and 9 re-
bounds while freshman Karin Treese hit on 5-9 shooting for
10 points and 4 rebounds.

The Generals were plagued by poor shooting and turn-
overs, shooting 26 percent from the ﬁeld and committing 35
turnovers.

Haynes had 15 points, 6 rebounds, and 7 steals to lead the
Quakers, and Nixon contributed 11 points and 11 rebounds.

The loss sustained the Generals’ tenth place position in
the ODAC while Guilford pulled to within one-halfgame of
the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins for fourth place in the
ODAC standings.

Washington and Lee turned things around Tuesday
evening by beating Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
58-48, in the Warner Center.

The Generals came back from a 13-point first halfdeficit
and a 6-point halftime margin to snare the win.

A huge key forthe Generals was their22 for27 freethrow
shooting performance.

Chrissy Burghardt racked up 16 points, including a
perfect‘ 8-8 from the free throw line, to go along with 6
assists and 9 rebounds.

Tonia Dean had 10 points, Holmes pitched in with 9
points and 11 rebounds, and freshman Amber Hinkle to-
talled 9 points and 6 rebounds.

W&L raised its record to 3-12 overall and 2-11 in the
ODAC with the win over the Wildcats. The Generals will
next face Villa Julie at home Saturday.

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SEL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services is now hirin
campus representatives. Lowest rate
to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona an
Egggma City Beach. Call 1-8O0-648

- .=,~. 

  I F Yo’1,1’v13'G'r
T .     

 

' ;y~.«(.»;‘.a‘c ma‘: a::=-W;  ,‘l::;.‘ .3‘.  .‘_’¥ff\;".:-'
‘  “;:‘» tr;-22: Ma, 42’ *.m;..:. 32.: Si‘

.3.‘
I  _z.:.x;¢...1x-“;.t«};.'s:>~.s an .5
.*;»{:m:= {:.c~,xrrx;,! .»ny:r1.inri ,~<i:;= sf «:;«;;}.;j m\‘a,';..:r~*

- "x'(’ . ‘I, . .
N” 3.3-...‘ _y‘°» . ‘. ’ .-

.jija'::.-'« a -“.5

 

ilxxfrwihelﬁmat r».-.um:.au.

 

:.q..«\ai:~z..~..}é)'a'-.r-;o::.e*i-1,

~ r. .4 4.1;. - >
4 yr .. . .,**,,\2 4

ATITTAKES
OURCOMPANY
uao

" L-' ;;.‘r:ew: 3;‘x...».; r:<e:w' I"! 
' ‘;'r.:x;.}...:s:;;s;'+ T.‘gW's+*s:_g gm? t, ’

if ye I,

r::i;s’:.f§*i’S 8*‘: .*f.¥.’.”{i“»'~r a‘.<>.‘.’. -9 $c’.iT4‘.".‘«lz‘xz»'.-«'2' L{r."=«;

For rnere information, pleaszr we Captain Hamaeil at the
£?’vans Oinirrg Hat! on February 33, 1996
item 11:00 a.m.~ 3:00 pm.
or £3.31! I-30{J~.$42-585 1..

A fu clay’.
fiber in eiglit
easy pages.
\/cry easy to l ‘
digest. A

Republican Mock
Convention Tie

The College
Town Shop

33'! West Netson Strsat in iexington
Student Accounts»-Masts: Card>—Vt8A

 

 

 

Wnssnmc -

Last Week:

L, 25-21, vs. Apprentice School

 - L, 84-76, vs. Guilford; L, 78-57, at Va. Wesleyan
WBAsKlrra..u.- L, 69-39, vs. Guilford; W, 58-48, vs. RMWC

S

@112 ﬂing-mm ilﬂlti

PORTS

This Week:

WRBSTLIING - Sat. at W. Maryland with Ursinus and Swarthmore

MBAsxzrm\u.- Sat. vs. Eastern Mennonite, 7:30 PM; Mon. vs.
Randolph-Macon, 7:30PM; Wed. at Lynchburg, 7:30 PM

WBAsxzraALL- Saturday vs. Villa Julie, 5:00 PM; Sunday vs. ‘
Roanoke, 4:00 PM; Tuesday vs. Bridgewater, 7:00 PM;

MSw1MM1NG- L, 103-97, vs. Transylvania; W, 100-94, vs. Sewanee Thursday at Hollins, 7:00 PM
wSWlMM1NG- W, 104-101, vs. Transylvania; L, 107-98, vs. Sewanee; MSWIMMJNG - Saturday at Mary Washington, 2:00 PM
W, 128-97, vs. Hollins WSWIMMING - Saturday at Mary Washington, 1:00 PM
MINDoon'I‘n.AcIt- Saturday at VMI Relays, 10:00AM
PAGE 8 BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK FEBRUARY 2, 1996“

  
  
  

  

 

The-iBtG”FAN

BY  BOOKWALTER

 

 

_ . Dallas was favored big
 toywin Super Bowl XXX,
 yet almostlost. Pittsburgh
 ewas given no chance in the

  

 ..fortu'nat_ely, thereare no
 moral" victories at the

«championshipleveksothe
: C Steelers and their fans are
;[left thinking about what
could have been.

» ' First, let me tip my hat
’ =tothe Cowboys. Their 27-
-_ ’ 17_vict_ory is indicative of
->"how,they'makc big plays

 
   

:3 “___hen_‘needed and consis-
i__tently., find ways to win.

i_“.b§:'St"tea’rn?, in" the NFL
2.” throughout the season and
 the first half of the Super
» . Bowl. But they were defi-
nitely not the best team in
the second half. Because
, Ofthat, we deserved abet-
terfinishthan we received.
C We could have seen a
A _;Steelers game-tying field
‘Afjgoal,sendingthegameinto
 the first Super Bowl over-
';;§?'3.tirne ever. ‘We could have
 seen a dramatic Pittsburgh
3. touchdown,catapultingthe
If-Steelers into the lead and
3 V‘ forcing Dallas into a rare
‘catch-up situation. Even
‘ an emotional Dallas stop
of the Steelers deep in
Cowboys territory would
have sufficed as true foot-
ball excitement. This game
had the potential to become
 -the best Super Bowl ever.
Instead, we saw Pitts-
 burgh QB Neil O’Donncll
 ‘. throw two time zones away
' from his intended receiver
. not once, but twice. Those
will go down in history as
the worst Super Bowl
, passes since Miami kicker
-GaroYeprc’mian’s pathetic
: floater in Super Bowl Vll.
. One would have
zthought hometown legend
"Dave Kricg of the Cardi-
“nals was throwing those
-1 passes, not the impecca-
bly-accuratc O’Donnell.
We saw Dallas CB
Larry Brown intercept both
passes. Brown was named
MVP for those feats and
gets to tour the talk show
: circuit this week. Good
' for him. But let’s face it;
Larry Hagman and Larry
A, King could have caught
 5', those passesjust as well as
7§_Larry Brown did.
» 5 Now we will be privi-
' leged to see Dallas players
 starring in a million com-
mercials this offseason.
Charles Haley will threaten
’ to retire again. Jerry Jones
will proclaim Barry
Switzeras The Best Coach
in the Universe. Yes. the
- Cowboys are Super Bowl
K champions yet again.
 " l,can’t complain too
 much. It was great to fi-
 nally see a close game and
 Pittsburgh represented the
Z AFC well. Don’t be sur-
7E"prised to see the Steelers
_ back next year. if they
' retain theirkey free agents,
' they’ll again be tough.
A controversy has been
brewing in the NHL lately
' over, ofall things, the Fox
TV Glowing Puck. I re-
? jmcmberwhenpuristswere
7 up in arms over the Fox
. ' football scoreboard. Now
' that tiny box 'sbcen cop-
-’ ' cl by othe ‘ networks.

    
   

 

 ‘puck ‘w
fans will beimainly watch-

' station, where ‘the ipucks
don’tglow.; :' " .

pucks be, but conﬁne them

Q much of a hockey buff,'I’ve

give me incentive to watch
Fox hockey, where fights
are no longer the main
source of entertainment.

  atcould

arne, yetalmostwon. U__n- .

"They proved they were the C

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Men‘s swimming is off to a 3-6 start after splitting a meet with Transylvania and Sewanee Saturday.

Prince, Hottle continue

domination at Sewanee
Women extend ODAC streak to 25 meets

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

Junior Nathan Hottle and se-
nior Rebekah Prince continued
their march toward nationals last
weekend, but their teams split
meets with Sewanee and
Transylvania.

Hottle, this week’s Athlete of
the Week, qualiﬁed provision-
ally for nationals in the 100 and
200 breaststroke and is very close
to qualifying for the 200 IM.
Hottle is the defending national
champion in the 200 breast.

A nine-time All-American,
Prince isjust a half-second away
from qualifying in the 200 back-
stroke and 1.4 seconds away from
qualifying in the 100 backstroke.

Both swimmers will get a

chance to qualify this weekend
in anotherdual meet against Mary
Washington.

Wednesday night, the women
extended their ODAC winning
streak to 25 meets with a 128-97
victory over Hollins. The vic-
tory increased theiroverall record
to 8-5.

The Generals won 9 out of 10
races. Freshman Margaret Hoehl
set a meet record with her win in
the 100 back and sophomore
Kendall Kruiekshanks won the
1000 free by almost 14 seconds.

Junior Anne Spencer won the
200 free, senior Jill Sheets won
the 100 and 200 breast, and
sophomore Megan Wiedmaier
took the 50 free.

Junior Laura Marshall and
Prince added wins in the 100 free
and 200 back, respectively.

The Generals were the victors

in the 200 medley relay, claim-
ing the top two spots.

Last weekend, the men’s team
defeated Sewanee, 100-94, but
lost to Transylvania, 103-97.

Freshman Tom Cox won the
50 freestyle and tied for first in
the 100 free with a time of:51.00.
There were three swimmers
within 1/100th of a second.
Freshman Brad Wymore placed
third with a time of :51.01.

Junior Steve Brigance won
the 200 butterﬂy, and along with
Cox, Wymore, and Craig Sears,
won the 400 free relay. Hottle
added wins in the 200 free and
the 200 breast.

The women split their two
meetsthe other way. The Gener-
als were victorious over
Transylvania, 104-101, but they
fell to Sewance, 107-98.

Hoehl continued her strong

season by winning the 1000 free
and placing second in the 200 and
500 free.

Sophomore Bligh Wollner
added a win in the 200 breast,
while Prince won the 200 [M by
three seconds and the 200 back by
four seconds.

The 400 free relay team of
Cruickshanks, sophomore Katy
Gibbs, freshman Laura Goodwin,
and freshman Greta Richter
cruised to victory over
Transylvania by six seconds. The
400 medley relay team ofWollner,
Prince, Marshall, and Wiedmaier
was victorious over Sewanee.

The teams are looking at tough
meets tomorrow against Mary
Washington. Last year, the men
defeated the Eagles, 132-73. The
women, on the other hand, are
lookingto avengeaone-point loss,
152-151.

Quakers hold .  

off Generals

By BETHANY BAUMAN
P/zi Assistant Sports Editor

Despite their solid effort, the ‘men’s basketball team dropped
their game to Guilford College Saturday, 84-76.

Both fighting for one of the eight spots in the upcoming Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament, the Quakers and the
Generals entered the game with similar must-win attitudes.

Guilford came into the contest with a record of 6-11 overall and ‘‘

2-10 in the conference, while W&L posted a 2-15 overall record, 2-
9 in the ODAC.

Guilfordjumped to an early lead within the first few minutes of
the game. But senior tri-captain Jon Coffman gave the Generals a

15-12 lead at the 12:04 mark on a three point basket. 1

The Generals capitalized on Quaker turnovers to go on a 16-5
scoring run. Guilford was noticeably weakened by the four first half
fouls of Quaker scoring leader Mike Norris.

W&L opened the second half with a 39-37 lead over Guilford.
Cam Dyer continued to lead the team, racking up 25 total points. _
Derek Carter also turned in a solid performance, sinking two ofthree
from three point range as well as grabbing a few key steals.

The decision came down to the last few minutes of the game with
Guilford taking a 72-70 lead with 2:32 remaining. With 236.4 left in
the clock, the Quakers extended their lead to 78-72, putting the game

out of reach for the Generals. V!

The team entered Wednesday’s contest with Virginia Wesleyan
with several key players injured. Dyer had been hobbled by a hip
injury prior to the Guilford game while Coffman was slowed by a
shoulder injury he sustained in Saturday’s game.

Sophomore Eric Zavolinsky had also been struggling with a
sprained thumb since January 26.

These nagging injuries proved costly as the Generals were
overrun by Virginia Wesleyan in Norfolk. 78-57.

W&L trailed 33-25 at halftime, but the Generals put together an
impressive 9-2 run early in the second half, cutting the deficit to 35-

34 with 16:12 remaining. it‘

The bottom then fell out for the Generals. Virginia Wesleyan
reeled off the next 17 points to put the game out of reach and hand
W&L another tough loss.

Cam Dyer led the W&L effort with 16 points and Kevin Cobbin

added 8 points. y.«

The Generals dropped to 2-17 overall with the loss. W&L will
be back in action Saturday evening against Eastern Mennonite at the
Warner Center.

    
  
 
 
 
 

n Looney prevailed 7- _' 
90 ‘andAdar_r Branson,
d’e_‘C_lc,rk, ' and John‘ ‘
r‘_unibine"also captured their
atchesf-‘,But it was not quite.’
't_Jgh_  W&L fell to 1-5.,

Commercials and the Super Bowl: perfect together

MY VIEW

1

Jason Zacher ’98

Why did you watch the Super Bowl?

Think a moment.

Did you really watch it fora good game? To procastinatc from
that paper? To see Dcion get maimed‘? For the Cowboy cheerlead-

ers‘? Or for the commercials?

lf you watched it for the first and last reasons, you were in luck.

For the first time in years, the American sporting community was
treated to a good game of football. The Steelers for once gave the
AFC‘ some reason to cheer. They showed up.

This was a team of relative unknowns playing against the flashy,

The Steelers almost did it. Even I was scared for a moment. Now
that the game is long over, the Cowboys are enjoying another

offseason as world champions.

The AFC, on the other hand, is

hopefully planning another attack using the Steelers’ blueprint.

I will acknowledge that there were many people who watched the
game for other reasons. I watched the game with a few of them.

lfyou watched it for the commercials, you were also treated. The
commercial crop this year was highly creative.

Any advertiser will tell you that the Super Bowl of football is also
the Super Bowl for advertisements. This year, a 30-second ad cost

$1.2 million.

So here goes. I conducted an impromptu poll around campus and

came up with this:
BEST SERIES OF ADS:

This wins throughout the year: the Nike Pee-Wee football ads.

tune in, ‘After an, diehardfr‘

ing on cable orfa local,TV 

So leave the ‘glowing ‘
to Fox. Although I.’m,not‘

never had trouble follow-‘ 
ing the puck: Still, it will ‘i

explosive Cowboys. Who thought the Steelers had a chance (other
than my editor)?

OK, so there were no spectacular performances by the stars. RB
Emmitt Smith only had 49 yards rushing and WR Michael Irvin only
had 76 yards receiving. These are poor numbers on a normal day for
these two.

7 lfyou are a Steelers fan (like one ofmy editors), you could watch
the heroics of RB Barn Morris running tlirough the Dallas defense,
the tenacity ofthe Pittsburgh rush defense, and the individual skill of
the receivers.

lfyou are a Cowboys fan, you can celebrate your fifth Super Bowl
title, the heroics of Super Bowl MVP CB Larry Brown, and Dallas
MVP QB Neil O’Donnell, as well as the leg of K Chris Boniol, who
scored one-third of the Cowboy points.

 
  
   
   

I §nI'cUTd

Do You Want VISA Q Mstercard Credit Cards?

. .6,,;s)3‘1‘:',§l.ra!» Ito credit checks!
“5,£:=;5ﬂ:-, itu security deposit!
was ¢°‘“‘ Sean rut: Ct1|P0ﬂ mmw

Who could forget the pee-wee ice bowl or the little kid high-stepping
into the end zone?

BEST SHOW PLUG:

NBC’s “Mad About You”. The Packers were a nice touch.
Everyone’s sentimental favorite forthe Super Bowl got on somehow.
“Oooh Cheese!”

BEST TWIST ON AN OLD AD:

Charlton Heston plugging Bud Light. The Bud Light guy was
getting a little annoying. Glad he could get some advice from Moses.

FUNNIEST AD:

This one was close. From who I talked to, the award goes to the
Budweiser frogs. Having the three ofthem frozen to the can was one
of the funniest things 1 had seen in years.

Honorable Mention: l. Dinosaur doing tricks for McDonald’s

QCQ—C—$QQ§$$$
as-crttm, SUITE 215
. 1501 B.mu.x..snna1.n sea amp
tluuyou can have have ofthe most recognized and ‘H31-"I-INDEX,-E . }?I.0RIDh 3.3009
oeeepteid crud}! <?:dII In {ha worId....V|aaE: :3: Maa n: :
t um-.. ' at your mm’ EVEN. I N‘! ~ . . twmtwsmmasrmmneo Credit
Cﬂfzbnmraavlnnm-:N1tJl_iN8DDOWHnE!!UREl mmnwmm mmmumy um“ Gwmimtnm
two ma 'M:ustc:<:xm:o the neat: and: you ‘
deserve and need for-— I!)-—K)0!£.‘;‘p-—D!£Pz'tRTIa-IE1)!!!‘ ],mME
S1‘0REs—11JI11ON--ﬂ€I‘I:R'fAlNMElfr--- -
m-ems:-ae~t eAst1—riexms—szsmunsms-- Apnmgss
HOPEL5-—1M:0TELS—G&S—-CAR scarring...
mamas-me.-no suru: mus CR1-:r:arr RATING! cmr STATE _._ ZIP

no turn deans!

‘upon-an--Dﬂﬁ-nun

‘form CREDIT cmns MIE tmrtue!

 

3STUl}BN'I'? Yes

«SIGNATURE

I\KIT§ Hauaﬁnl is I lﬁllllﬂd ill!-‘lvlfiﬁllﬂt dl N-Illttfﬁ-31$ Iﬂkzmﬁlbrul Inc.
VH1 II it "K313111151 llidurlﬂt d’ VISA IISJL inc. Ind VISA lrskunuonyl

fries. 2. Beavers building house for Doritos. 3. Hakeem buying
the Olympians lunch.

WE HAD THIS MANY STARS AND STILL COULDN’T
MAKE AN AD AWARD:

Tylenol. They had a Heisman Trophy winner and three NFL stars
in one comtnercial and it still stunk.

BEST CAMPAIGN:

Pepsi. For the third straight year, they did it.

1. Frozen tundra. The people in the doctor’s office with the Pepsi
cans stuck to the paticnt’s lips. 2. Coke driver buried in Pepsi
landslide. 3. Goldfish. it was only good because it got flushed.

BEST AD WITH DEION SANDERS (ifthis is possible) OR
MICHAEL JORDAN: -

The Dcion commercial for Pepsi with Wile E. Coyote. Maybe it
is just a traditional weakness for the Looney Tunes. 3

THIS AD WAS SUPPOSED TO i\l.'\l{E ME BUY SOME-
THING AWARD:

This is a distinguished category. Hopeful ly. people lost thcirjobs
for these: 1. Plymouth Neon (maybe the person that designed the
carcan lose hisjob). 2. The Wolvcswith Toyota. 3. Kinko’s with
theincrediblcstretching neck. 4. Anti-snore strips. 5. McDonald’s
with the kid in the baby-swing.

Well, that is a more—than-thorough rundown of the Super Bowl.
We can look forward to a year of preparation for the next one.‘
Madison Avenue is already preparing.

Maybe there will be a really memorable game to go along with
the ads next year...maybe like Super Bowl ill?

P.S. Marv Albert: Michaellordan scored morethan the Cowboys
on Sunday.

 
 

...................m= saw

I

3

1

‘I

I

a

I

it

-s

it

I

I

I

1|

I

I

‘
I

X

  

1

 

