 

‘.%””«7‘55 
I2 33", i..!NiN8T!“R‘l. am 
v: 4
We are 941995

Pretty Fire:
a universal
journey

.. I

\/M , W&L in hoops:
long time no see 9

‘/:7
»z;'.
.

VOLUME 96, NO. 10

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

No strings attached!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

of the obligatory Christmas tree.

In a creative display of their decorating acumen, the Phi Delts show off their non-traditional placement

I

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

  Chi: iﬁittg-111111 {ﬂirt

DECEMBER 1, 1995

Equipment failure
silences WLUR

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Students who rise each morning and flip on
the radio to listen to WLUR’s popular morning
rock show, “Moming Mag,” will now be greeted
with static. Due to a malfunction within the
radio station’s transmitter, WLUR was forced
to shut down early Thursday morning.

“It’s the cost of running business.” said
Professor Robert de Maria, WLUR’s faculty
advisor, “It’s just one of those things that hap-
pens.”

Installed in 1973, the transmitter contains
several meters, all of which work in conjunc-
tion to power the radio station. Junior Robbie
Watt, Chief Student Engineer, noticed that one
of the meters was reading erratically late
Wednesday night. By Thursday, the meter
collapsed causing the transmitter to cease work-
mg.

Residents of Woods Creek Apartments —
only a few hundred feet from the station —
were unable to pick up WLUR’s signals. Upon
hearing this, the WLUR staff knew the trans-
mitter was non-operational.

Chief Student Operator Chuck Carabello
said the timing of the transmitter’s failure could
not have been better.

With everyone preparing for exams and
dealing with the last minute rush of Fall Term
activities, it does not really effect anyone too
greatly, said Carabello.

According to de Maria, Thursday’s episode
is the first time the 27-year-old transmitter has
caused a major problem forthe staff of WLUR.

Melissa Cox, secretary of the Journalism
Department, distributed an e-mail message to
all music directors instructing them to notify
their dee-jays of the cancellation of program-
ming.

Although unsure of the exact timetable,
Carabello and Watt hope to have WLUR back
on air by the start of Winter Tenn. Meanwhile
all programming has been canceled. In addi-
tion to losing the music shows, WLUR will be
unable to air ﬁve basketball games and six
operas which are carried live from New York’s
Metropolitan Opera House.

Washington and Lee Tech Services are busy
trying to repair the malfunctioning meter. If
those attempts fail, Tom Tinsley, Director of
Technical Services, will purchase a new meter
from the makers of the transmitter. The precise
cost of a new meter is currently unknown.

When Tech Services were located on the
third ﬂoor of Reid Hall, also the home of
WLUR, daily check—ups of the transmitter were
possible. Many minor problems were diag-
nosed and repaired before they became major
ones. Since Tech Services has been moved to
the Heating Plant, daily investigations of
WLUR’s equipment are impossible.

Carabello thinks the meter’s malfunction
resulted from the rigors of perpetual use. None-
theless, he believes, had Tech Services been
located on the third ﬂoor of Reid as before, the
problem might have been detected earlier.

Sunken ground near C-School
poses no threat for building

Trees began to grow from the pile, somewhat stabilizing the
ground. The growth did not prevent the dirt from slipping
down the side of the hill. Workers first noticed the land
sliding in the 1970’s.

Rainwater would slip between the rock and‘ the dirt,
lubricating the soil and causing it to slide down the surface

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The ground next to the Williams School parking lot has
been slipping away for years. But spokesmen for Buildings of the hill it had formed.
and Grounds say the area has stabilized and is safe to build In 1985 an underground water leak caused the earth to
on. settle, said Scott Beebe, assistant director of B&G. The dirt

The area that encompasses the parking lot of the Will- soaked up water from the ruptured water line, causing the
iams School and slopes downward to the dell between earth to sink and settle. '

Woods Creek apartments used to be a sheer rock cliff, said An engineering company examined the area after the
Jim Arthur, interim director of Buildings and Grounds. water leak and said there was no danger of collapse.

For years, workers dumped the refuse from on-campus “The worst problem was over after that,” Arthur said.
construction sites over the bank, causing it to pile up. B&G Both Beebe and Arthur say the slippage has stopped and the
workers also used the spot to dump cinders from the Heating earth has settled.
and Cooling Plant, when it occupied the space where the The engineering company also said the spot would be
library is now. safe for a building if all the dirt was first excavated down to

“It was the dumping site for dirt and excavated materials the rock, eliminating the problem of dirt slippage altogether.
on campus,” Arthur said. “I predict there will be a building on that site before too

The pile grew up the side of the cliff, fonning a slope. long,” Arthur said.

Greg Gumbel to speak
to W&L community

BY RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

NBC sportscaster Greg Gumbel will speak in Lee Chapel on Tuesday,
December 5th, at 7 p.m. The public is invited to the Contact-sponsored event,
and a reception will follow.

Gumble, one of the most visible broadcasters on network television, joined
NBC in 1994 after a successful five-year relationship with CBS. The award-
winning broadcaster has covered professional basketball, baseball and, most
notably, football. He won an Emmy for “The NFL Today,” which he co-hosted
with Terry Bradshaw.

Gumbel served as primtime anchor of CBS Sports’ broadcast of the 1994
Winter Olympic Games from Lillihammer, Norway, and co-host of the morning
coverage of the 1992 Winter Olympics from Albertville, France. He has also
been named the daytime anchor for NBC’s coverage of the 1996 Summer
Olympic Games in Atlanta.

W&L holds Christmas Service

From Phi Staff Reports

Washington and Lee University’s annual Christmas Candlelight Service will
be held Thursday, December 7th, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The public is invited
to attend.

Music for the traditional service of lessons and carols will be provided by the
University Chamber Singers, conducted by W&L professor of music Gordon -
Spice. Members of the Chamber Singers are upperclassmen chosen by audition
after at least one year of singing experience in the university chorus.

The service of nine lessons and carols at Washington and Lee follows, in its
entirety, the service performed continuously since 1918 at King’s College,
Cambridge. Thanks to its annual broadcast over the BBC, this has become the
best-known’ liturgical service of the Christmas season.

Associate professor of music Tim Gaylard will be the organist for the service
and, as is customary, readers for the service will be chosen from the university
community. Acting University Chaplain Thomas Litzenburg Jr. will preside
over the service.

The annual Christmas Candlelight Service is sponsored by the University
Federation.

‘ )-

' Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Magnifying glass not included

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

According to Building and Grounds spokesmen, the sunken
ground near the Williams School has stabilized.

Students strain their eyes in the University Center
searching through the sea of Presidential Gala proofs.

 

 

PAGE 2

BE%ND

THE BLUE RIDGE

 

Initial talks on a balanced

budget not promising

Washington, D.C.—-Talks began on Tuesday between Republican and
Democrat leaders and the White House in an effort to reach an agreement
for a balanced budget. While many officials hope to reach an agreement
before Christmas in order to avoid an increase in interest rates and a
balanced budget battle during the 1996 elections, most admit that the
results of the first days of talks have not been promising.

Congressional leaders and the White House are split on several major
issues which have become obstacles to reaching a compromise by Decem-
ber 15th. The concerns over changes in Medicare and Medicaid, as well
as a disagreement over the computation of economic assumptions to be
used in the development of the plan, have dominated the talks thus far and
officials do not foresee quick resolutions to any of these disputes.

Clinton repeals speed limit

law; states to set own rules

Washington, D.C.-—Despite the arguments of safety and environmental
groups, on Tuesday President Clinton repealed the national speed limit law
originally signed by President Nixon to conserve energy after the 1974
OPEC Oil Embargo. The White House cited Congress’ refusal to provide
federal funds for national highway improvement until the signing of its
National Highway System bill as Clinton’s primary motivation for signing
the bill.

On December 8th, states will no longer be required to maintain the
national speed limit of 55 miles per hour, and will have the jurisdiction to
set their own speed limits. Some western states will increase the limit to
75 miles per hour or higher, while Montana will have no speed limit.

FINA enacts stricter rules for

swimmers using steroids

Rio de Janiero--FINA, the international swimming federation, voted
Tuesday to enact much stricter rules against amateur swimmers who test
positive for steroids. In response to increasing concern from countries like
the United States, FINA voted to ban swimmers who test positive from
amateur swimming for four years. Such a probation would cause the
swimmer to miss an Olympic Games, a very serious sanction for an
amateur swimmer. The swimmer would also lose any records or honors
achieved during the year prior to the positive drug test.

Thousands of readers bid

farevvell to Calvin and Hobbes 

Fans of the popular comic strip “Calvin and Hobbes” received a blow
recently when artist Bill Watterson announced that he will not continue
drawing the strip in 1996. After December 31st, the cartoon will no longer
appear in the more than 2300 newspapers in which it is currently published.
Watterson cited the artistic limitations of deadlines among his reasons for
discontinuing “Calvin and Hobbes,” and said that although he has made no

plans for the future, he hopes to continue his work with fewer creative ,

constraints.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

GOP WATCH  

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a
specialweekly feature to keep Washing-
ton and Lee's students informed about
the Republican Presidential Campaign
in advance of Mock Convention.

Dole supports Clinton and

Bosnia; Gramm opposes

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole has found himself resigned to support
President Clinton’s plan to send 20,000 troops to Bosnia. He suggested at
a speech on Tuesday that any congressional effort to block the deployment
would create “unacceptable costs at home and abroad.”

Dole’s position on this issue is drawing him criticism from other
Republican presidential candidates, especially Phil Gramm. Gramm
stated that he is “opposed to sending American troops to Bosnia” and
intends to “fight the president’s resolution that will ask Congress for the
endorsement of that policy.”

Political observers view this differing of opinion among the two front-
runners for the nomination as a “deﬁning issue” in the contest between
Dole and Gramm.

Gingrich not to run in 1996

Ending months of speculation, Newt Gingrich announced on Tuesday
that he will not run for president during the 1996 election. Gingrich stated
that he was “influenced by his commitment to shepherd a balanced budget
through Congress” and believes that he will be more able to serve the
interests of Americans as Speaker of the House.

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

‘happen at the worst possibl

Swimmers face
pool problems

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

A problem with the pump of Washington and
l_.ee’s 23-year-old swimming pool caused swim
team members to miss four days of practice earlier
this month.

The seal on the pump broke the ﬁrst week of
November and began leaking water. The pump,
which was installed last spring term, filters water and
sends it through a treatment system to purify it. The
seal on the pump creates a vacuum that sucks water
into the pump.

“If we had kept the pump running, it would
have blown out,” said women’s swim team coach
Kiki Jacobs.

Men’s coach Page Remillard said the broken seal
was a problem with the equipment from the
manufacturing company, which sent a new one
within days. ~

Coaches and swimmers both felt that the days of
missed practice would have jeopardized their perfor-
mance in that weekend’s meet with Centre College.
Centre, however, was having its own problems, with
its pool’s heater.

“This would have hurt us for (the meet) this
weekend,” said sophomore swimmer Bligh Wollner,
“but Centre had to cancel the meet.”

The pump mishap is not the only problem W&L’s
pool has had lately. The swimming pool is beginning
to show signs of age.

“lt has served us well throughout its life span, but
we’re starting to have some problems with it,”
Remillard said.

The pool’s cast-iron piping system has become
corroded and lined with rust, decreasing the diameter
inside the pipes.

“There’s plaque in those pipes like there’s plaque
in a circulatory system,” Remillard said.

Sometimes an air bubble will knock off a clump
of rust and sent it through the pipes into the pool,
discoloring the water.

“We call it a burp,” Remillard said,

The most recent burp happened about a month
ago, right before a water polo game.

“it’s not a health hazard for swimmers, it’s just an
eyesore,” Remillard said. The meet was held as
scheduled.

The equipment has simply outlived its usefulness,
both coaches said. Remillard is scheduled to meet
with the five-year planning committee to discuss the
needs of the aquatic department.

W&L swimmers are not the only ones inconve-
nienced by pool problems. The public uses the pool
as well, and Remillard said that large groups some-
times rent it.

These recent mishaps are symptoms of a larger
problem, Remillard said.

“We’ve been putting band-aids on the whole
thing, and we can’t continue to do that,” he said.

“My biggest fear is that a major problem will
e moment.” '

11'

The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1995

A Christmas Carol?

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Lexington dons festive attire as the holiday season approaches, every day
looking a little more like a picturesque town in a Dickens novel.

Ashton to be Visiting Scholar

From Phi Staff Reports

Dore Ashton, professor of art history at The
Cooper Union, will be the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting
Scholar at Washington and Lee University Decem-
ber 6-8.

In addition to seminars and infonnal meetings
with students and faculty, she will present a public
lecture on Wednesday, December 6 at 7 p.m. in
DuPont Auditorium. The title of her talk is “Shibbo-
leths, Dubious Critical Approaches, and No Guides
for the Perplexed.”

Ashton received her B.A. from the University of
Wisconsin-Madison, her M.A. from Harvard Uni-
versity and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

She has been professor of art history at The
Cooper Union since 1969, is former art critic for the
New York Times, and during 1974-92 was associate
editor of Arts. She has also taught graduate courses
at Columbia University, City University, and the
New School.

Recipient of the College Art Associationfsltgatlrer 

.w ,1

creative work.

ﬂood.

Arm:

The Literary Arts Magazine of
Washington and Lee
is currently accepting submissions of

Submissions can be dropped off in the /\.r/e/ box
in the secretary's office of Payne Hail (second

  
   

 

 

One man’s revolutiong One woman’s rebellion.
A penlousjoumey. A daring escape.

C/ﬁn epic novekoflove, Iibergt

and the pursuit

   

of happiness.

Award for art criticism and the Art Criticism Prize of
the St. Louis Art Museum, Ashton has been a
Guggenheim, Graham, and Ford Foundation fellow,
as well as a recipient of grants from the National
Endowment for the Humanities.

She is a former contributing editor of Studio
International and Opus International, and is a con-
tributor to the Vision and Value series and New Art
Anthology. She has been a curator of various inter-
national art exhibitions and has done radio and tele-
vision broadcasts.

She has written over 20 books, including Noguchi

East and West, A Fable of Modern Art, The New 3-

York School.‘ A Cultural Reckoning, About Rothko,
American Art Since 1945, A Critical Study of
Philip Guston, A Joseph Cornell Album, and
Picasso on Art.

The Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program

makes available each year 12 or more distinguished 

scholars who visit approximately 100 colleges and
universities. The purpose of the program is to con-
tribute to the intellectual life of the campus by mak-
ing possible an exchange of ideas between the visit-

Hing-scholarsgand the resident faculty and students.

10% <i2ti>ubticiT1 QAOCK CONVENTION

 

;tlllllftl2 etiimnt
fol? ﬁll lllﬁl? l'|ﬂPD WODK Oil Till
|__ P95 ?PfS|Dfl|T|ﬂl Qﬂlll
Come By and enter our
drawing for an

nurogarmwzq)

of Ken fo[[ett’5
ﬂl Tface Cnlfecffreecfom

‘Washington anc{Lee
University
ﬁookgtore

Lexington, ‘Vﬂl 24450

Drawingto Ee ﬁeld ﬂe-
cemﬁer 11, 1995

WlSl1fS TO Tllﬂllli

C OT?’

‘'1

 

‘I

universal journey

W8 ‘S curtains rise on Woodard's Pretty Fire

tarah grant
phi staff writer

When Charlayne Woodard’s Pretty Fire opened in New York City, the play
was immediately stereotyped as a “black play” by several prominent theater
critics.

Woodard responded to the criticism by writing an editorial to The New York
Times.

“Contrary to the assertions, [PrettyFire] caters neither to a white audience nor
to an African-American one,” the playwright insisted. “It caters to any human
being, regardless of race or religion, who wishes to join me on an universal
journey through a world of loving mothers and fathers and grandparents who
spoiled us silly.” ‘

The story focuses on a black family, but offers a general story of family life.

When senior theater major Marilyn Baker decided to bring Pretty Fire to
Lexington, she kept Woodard’s inten-
tions in mind, and the open casting has
both black and white students playing
the black characters.

Baker hopes that the audience will
likewise see the message as colorless.

“Life is like a mountain,” said Baker,
explaining why she selected the play.
“You have times when your life is at a
very high point and times when your
life is at a low point...ln the end [of the
play] you end up at the top.”

Evoking both tears and laughter,
Pretty Fire recreates experiences in the
ﬁrst 11 years of the playwright’s life.

The play consists of ﬁve vi gnettes—
“Birth,” “Nigger,” “Pretty Fire,”
“Bonesy,” and “Joy,”——and offers a
“celebration of life’’ with moments to
which everyone can relate.

“The play itself has stirred up a lot
of memories. from my early childhood—memories about going to church,

Tamara Watkins comforts granct-

 

ataugtiters Lyrae Van Ctfe]/amt E/izatretti
Spencer as ttze Ku K/ux Klan rictes try.

different songs playing on the radio, records my parents used to play all the time,
‘the breakfast of life,’ and phrases that it seems every black mother or grand-
mother says at least once in her life,” explained Tamara Watkins, who plays both
Dorothy and Grace. “I realized how much I had missed [from] those days.”

Pretty Fire is distinct from other Lenfest Center productions in several ways.
While the One-Act Festival presented each spring is also student-run, a full
production such as PrettyF ire is a far more complex effort for those involved than
the production of only one act; the play thus stands singular on campus as an all-
student production with multiple acts.

“Working only with other students, there is a greater sense of comradery,”
explains the play’s technical director, senior Tom Kernan. “It’s easier to be
creative and work together as well as to solve problems, because there is not that
student-teacher situation hovering in the back of your mind.”

The production also is unique in that it fulﬁlls the senior thesis project
requirement for two drama majors, instead of one; while Baker is directing the
show, senior Chris Buford has designed the set.

The original script just called for a bench, but Baker had a more elaborate set
in mind. The result is the interior of a Southern Baptist church, the design of
which is based on one in Lexington. .

“It’s been a learning experience,” said Buford, of the set’s con-
struction. “[Baker] gave me a lot of direction in where she wanted to
go and I developed it into physical plans. We put in a lot of extra hours
to get it done in time.”

Baker began planning the play over the summer, adding to the one-
woman show the roles of those characters who inﬂuenced Woodard.

In assigning their words to the supporting characters themselves,
Baker felt that their inﬂuence on Woodard would be clearer to the
audience than in the original version.

While adapting the play to a full cast production turned out to be no
small task, Baker wanted to direct Pretty Fire from the ﬁrst time she
read it and was determined to make it work.

“Marilyn is so patient,” said Watkins, also Baker’s roommate.
“That’s what I love most about her. Living with her gives me an
advantage because I have gotten a lot of insight about what this play
means to her.”

Staged between Thanksgiving and Winter Breaks, the production
time was somewhat limited; set construction started the day after
Children of a Lesser God closed, and the play will open tonight.

“This is the shortest production time for a play that I have [ever]
been on,” said Kernan, “but everyone has put heart and soul into it and
we got to where we needed to be when we needed to get there.”

The crew oonstructedjthe set under the direction of Kernan, arranging the
lighting and sound in the two weeks before Thanksgiving. After break, they had
less than a week to put everything else together and do touch-ups, a hectic week

not without its obstacles.

Three days before open-
ing night, Kernan and
Floor Captain Dave Ledlie
dropped the pi- ano which is
usedintheplay’s final scene;
theirinjurieswill restrict each
of them to move— ment with the
aid of crutches for about a
week.

Staying in ac- cord with the
old cliche that “the show
mustgoon,”the Assistant
TechnicalDirec- tor, freshman
Drew Higgs, quickly as-
sumed full re— sponsibility
for the technical aspects of the
show.

The produc- tion is ﬁnally
uniquebecauseit involves so

many non-the- ater majors.

The cast of nine performersin-
cludes six mak- ing their de-
buts on W&L’s stage, three of
whom are fresh- men.

“I had never acted before,
but my friends encouraged
me to audition? Baleer smiles aluring retzearsa/. Said 5°Ph°'
more Keith Haber, who
was also recently cast in the up-

coming production of Faust. “It’s been such a blast——a lot of hard work, but also
a lot of fun. I hope that we are able to portray this to the audience.”

Pretty Fire will be on stage at the Johnson Theater through December 6.
Tickets are available free of charge to W&L faculty, students and staff at the
Lenfest box ofﬁce.

“If we can do it six times and still study for exams,” smiledWatki.ns, “anybody
can come and see it once.”

Photos courtesy of Louise Uffelman.

 

Odds are,
enjoy Casino...

iiappy lioliciays
Special tttanks to Central E/ementary's
Katina Montgomerg/, for tier ctrawingsf

 

SMIA E

youﬂl

Kiri-2 Susong
Ptii Reviewer

If you are one of the few readers of this
column not related to me by blood, you will
know that one of my biggest problems is that
movies so often simply disappoint. That
isn’t to say that a ﬁlm itself is bad, but that
the trailers and hype will emphasize aspects
of the movie that in the end just don’t come
through. The result is that you are left with
a bad impression of .a pretty decent film.

And if you are in any way familiar with
movies of the past two decades, you know
that one of the most successful combina-
tions has been Martin Scorsese and Robert
DeNiro, which has resulted in masterpieces
like Raging Bull, GoodFellas and Taxi
Driver, to name a few. So you can expect the
sort of expectaions I had before seeing Ca-
sino; the ﬁlm has such a legacy to live up to.
Well, the good news is that although Casino
isn’t a perfect ﬁlm, it deﬁnitely meets the
standards set by this duo’s seven previous
movies.

As you probably could have guessed
from the movie’s title, the whole story re-
volves around a single Las Vegas casino and
the man sent by mob bosses to run it for
them, Ace Rothstein (DeNiro). After he has
established himself there, he is joined by his
childhood friend Nick Santoro, a brutal,
violent, small-time gangster played by Joe
Pesci.

Further to complicate matters, Rothstein
falls in love with an equally small-time
hustler, Ginger (Sharon Stone), whose only
ambition seems to be getting dough from

vacationing conventioneers so she can sup-
port her low-life lover, Lester (James
Woods). The whole ﬁlm turns on the slow,
painful deceptions and double-crossings the
characters pull on one another, while their
careers simultaneously ﬂame out like a match
one has to drop when the ﬂame gets too
close to one's ﬁngers.

The ﬁrst thing to know about this ﬁlm is
that you will be getting your money’s worth:
it is long, coming in around the three-hour
mark. And Casino moves so deliberately
and thoughtfully that you’ll be completely
aware of the length as you sit in yourcramped
theater seat. But oddly enough, you won’t
mind the length, because the characters are
so captivating.

Robert DeNiro is absolutely brilliant as
the intelligent, dapper Jewish casino
managre. I had grown so tired of hearing
about DeNiro the Great, whose very pres-
ence holds weaker ﬁlms together, they say.
So I went into Casino hoping I could walk
out without paying even more homage to
huim, as every ﬁlm critic seems to feel so
necessary. But his performance is simply so
amazing I must analyze anyhow.

DeNiro brings a phenomenal depth to the
role of Ace Rothstein. Instead of the me-
thodically violent man of machismo he has
so often played, here he is a quiet, peaceful
man of compromise, one uncomfortable
with violence but who knows it is a part of
his world. A truly great actor is defined by
his breadth and depth, and De Niro brings
both to this role. As much as I liked Larenz
Tate inDeadPresidents, now I might have to
tip my hat to DeNiro forbest performance of
the year.

The supporting actors all do a fine job
(especially Don Rickles as the unsuspecting

4 comic relief), though I must disagree with so

many critics who say this is the role where
Sharon Stone proves she can act. In Casino,
Stone plays it safe in the morally degenerate
role she’s familiar with. Until she finally
plays a character who doesn’t jump into
every bed in sight, she will remain nothing
more than Hollywood’s most respectable
whore.

Just as with GoodFellas, Scorsese co-
wrote the script with Nicholas Pileggi, taken
from Pileggi’s based-on-fact books about
gangsters. Also noteworthy is the score,
which is restrained and suitable. In a day
when it seems like soundtracks are taking on
lives of their own (e.g., Pulp Fiction,
Clueless, Empire), it is wonderful when
music in a ﬁlm relies upon subtlety insetad
of popularity.

My biggest complaint with Casino is
with some of Scorsese’s direction, oddly
enough. It seems he takes some shortcuts
that molly-coddle the audience to make his
job of storytelling easier. For example, I
didn’t think the running narrative provided
by both DeNiro and Pesci was very effec-
tive. Without revealing too much, his use of
time-discontinuity seemed like a cheap and
almost dishonest way of getting the audi-
ence to adopt_ a certain attitude towards the
characters.

These and other minor complaints aside,
this is a tremendous movie. The story is
intriguing and original, the dialogue simple
but enough, andlthe acting absolutely su-
perb. This is absolutely a character ﬁlm, and
what characters! If you are a fan of DeNiro,
you’ve probably already seen Casino, so I
will merely encourage you to go a second
time andtakeafriend who hasn’thad enough
exposure to this outstanding actor.

    

PAGE 4

@112 ﬁling-mm lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

World AIDS Day

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control
in Atlanta recently announced that AIDS
has replaced accidents as the number one
killer of people aged 25-44. Last week,
an article in The Washington Post re-
ported on a study that maintained one in
ten young males aged 18 to 30 may carry
the AIDS virus. Health clinics across
America have proven that youth repre-
senting all demographic characteristics
constitute the new “at risk” population.

Now, more than ever, the young need
to be educated about the disease and in-
crease their awareness about its transmis-
sion and prevention. Methods for disease
control need to be widespread and readily
available. Washington and Lee students
are often reminded that we do not live in a
cozy bubble. Real life problems with real
life consequences confront us every day.
AIDS is no exception.

The sexual revolution of the 1960s and
70s has blown up in America’s face. Free
and indiscriminate sex must become an
antiquated relic of the past. Unfortu-
nately, instead of smoking a bowl and
listening to J imi Hendrix albums, the
foreplay of today ’s sex is a trip to the
local AIDS clinic. Perhaps the sentiments
expressed in the hit Generation X film,
Reality Bites, are truer than ever: AIDS
tests have become our strange rite of pas-
sage.

December 1 is World AIDS Day. It is
altogether fitting and proper that we take
time to remember those who have died of
AIDS. Furthermore, today offers us an
opportunity to recommit ourselves to
supporting those living with the disease.

Quote of the Week

“Chicks. No chicks.”

—W&L ’s battle cry as our fearless
Generals succumbed to VMI basketball.

‘CO

OPINION

‘ska 601'

A srtcxik ‘OR
rem’ nuns,
M1’ 8W?

The Ring-tum Phi, Decernber 1, 1995

Welfare critics ignore program’s benefits

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

Last week Newt,Gi n grich addressed
the Republican Governors’ Associa-
tion and went on one of his rambles
about the ills of the welfare state. He
blames the welfare state for the hor-
riﬁc murder of a woman and her chil-
dren in Chicago, much the same as he
blamed the crime of Susan Smith on
the welfare state‘; In saying this,'he
forgets that death is a tragedy, not a
political platform. Gingrich’s idiocy
may know no bounds but instead of
embarking on a tirade against Gingrich,
I would rather focus on the greater
environment that his remarks were
born of.

I suppose we should be thankful to
Gingrich for exposing another crime,
since many of us have become some-
what numb to violence. We may still
be shocked and angered by a killing
spree (although the anger may be mis-
directed) but we are not saddened by
every individual death by violence. I
grew up in Miami and it was a rare
news night that there was not a story
about a violent death; after a while
you hear such a story and it doesn’t
shock you, it’s accepted as the way
things are. Different groups seek to
blame this on the media, talk shows,
violence in movies and on TV, and a
myriad of other reasons. Some of this
blame is valid but it ignores a larger

problem. If we were simply immune
to violence, why do the human rights
violations in Bosnia and the injury of
a close friend anger us. The latter is
obvious, we hurt for those closest to
us, it’s an inseparable aspect of friend-
ship. The former is a bit harder to
explain; but it is probably related to
the localized blindness that compels

free society cannot help the many who
are poor, it cannot save the few who are
rich.” Gingrich and company should
remember that when they complain
about the beneﬁts that the poor receive
from this country.

Yes, there are problems in the wel-
fare state; but where would we be
without it. We are embarking on a

peopletogiveto computer-
charities that C C driven age, and
help orphans in it is the welfare
fi’i.‘§l§"l°;’.‘,’I,‘§l‘,?§ ---[Pe°P’e1 ‘'0 ."°‘ ¥é3%'“21ZnlL"§:
the problems in observe or conslder healthcare, edu-
their own neigh- the thousands who cation, and the
borhoods. school meals

The Republi- P039 ﬂf?'0Ugh welfare that the children
cans are correct on their wa U OI‘ the of the r re-

poo
insayingthatthis ceive that en-
thousands of

short-coming . ables them to
will not and children wha are learn and be-
should not be born ta mothers on come competi-
solved by the tive. As Sir
federal govern- welfare  are_l0ved Arthur Conan
ment alone. But and cherished ln the Doyle’sfamous
toblamethewel- ' detective said,
farestateistone- way chlldren should “You see, but
glect all of the be- you do not ob-

beneﬁts of the
programs initi-
ated by men such

serve.” People
see the crimes
committed by

as FDR and his successors, including
Johnson and the Great Society. Per-
haps those who condemn the state
these men built forget the years when
children were forced to work instead
of getting an education or the thou-
sands who were killed by diarrhea,
measles, and small pox before there
were widespread and cheap vaccina-
tions and healthcare. In his inaugural
address, John F. Kennedy said, “If a

people who happen to be on welfare
and the children born simply to ex-
pand beneﬁts to their mothers; but
they do not observe or consider the
thousands who pass through welfare
on their way up or the thousands of
children who are born to mothers on
welfare but are loved and cherished in
the way children should be. ,
So how should we solve these prob-
lems? I make no claim to be an expert

R

but the solution seems to be in strong
community support backing federal:
aid. This is not block grants, the"»
money should still have a speciﬁca‘
purpose and conditions for use , but it?’
must be buttressed by community ac—,*;
tion. A community is also not forced‘
into useful action through removing
federal funds. The welfare state is
often blamed for destroying commu-
nity by taking away responsibility of
communities to take care of their own.
To some extent this may be true but:
there were other massive changes in
American society that affected the
way communities interacted. These
include: the move to the suburb, a
lack of roots created by an ever more
mobile society, and the draw of home
entertainment away from recreational
activities that involved the entire coma,
munity. Who knows what impact
exactly these changes had but it is not
simply the fault of the welfare state
that more charity originated in the
federal government than at home. This
trend towards government charity is‘
being halted as one can see in the
increased level of volunteerism among
young people. _
“We hope that the world will not
narrow into a neighborhood before
it has broadened into a brotherhood.” -.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ;
Perhaps politicians can put aside
their political posturing and Ameri-f
cans in general can focus on what is
right around them and prevent the inci-
dents like to one in Chicago. The only
way to solve the problems and the
violence the Speaker lectured about is
to remember it is OUR PROBLEM not
that of the anonymous welfare state.

Ellie illtng-tum iﬂlti

Executive Fdimf‘ Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor semi Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauinan
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonists. Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallaoe

Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@w!u. edu

On Bosnia and other quagmires

JASON
SORENS,
’98

American foreign policy has often been mis-
guided, due in part to the lack of solid theoretical
grounding. In the beginning, America fought for
hate of Britain and love of Indian land. Later in the
nineteenth century, it was for Manifest Destiny and
the “white man’s burden.” This higher calling
transmogrified into Wilson’s goal of making “the
world safe for democracy.” Then someone decided
it was time to make the world safe for capitalism, by
means of the Cold War. Now, after the alleged fall
of Communism, the United Nations and its cohorts
have ushered us into a “New World Order,” in which
we make war to make peace.

These misguided notions have meant that the
U.S. government has lacked a single true foreign
policy success since... oh, about the Revolutionary
War. This government needs a consistent and
correct political theory for foreign policy.

As I argued in my previous column, government
policy should be fonnulated with respect to indi-
vidual rights rather than to collective identities.

War has always tended to be collectivist. Its
carrying-out and the propaganda that accompany it
have encouraged us to kill and injure, or simply hate,
other individuals -- simply because of their national
affiliation, race, or geographical location. War has
always meant the killing of innocents, whether the
involuntary draftee on the other side or the hapless
civilian shot, bombed, or starved to death. Thus, war
has throughout history tended to be mass murder.
Furthermore, war has caused not insigniﬁcant prob-
lems at home. Examples include: exorbitant taxa-
tion, massive government takeover of industry,
draconian regulations both on business practices
and on personal liberties, hatred of various ethnic

groups, widespread conscription, and enormous
budget deﬁcits.

When these caxgats thus become clear, it is easier
to develop a few criteria for the justification of war.
First, war must not violate the rights of citizens of
other governments. It should be conﬁned only to
voluntary participants. Second, it must not violate
the rights of citizens at home. Implementation of the
war effort, too, should be conﬁned to voluntary

cc--————

Government has the sole
purpose of providing rights
protection to its customers,
or citizens (used broadly not
to the exclusion of those indi-
viduals who pay taxes to a
certain government but are
for various reasons consid-
ereddisenfranchised aliens).
It has no duty to protect the
rights of non-citizens.

participants.

There is one ﬁnal criterion, more an extension of
the second. Government has the sole purpose of
providing rights protection to its customers, or citi-
zens (used broadly, not to the exclusion of those
individuals who pay taxes to a certain government
but are for various reasons considered disenfran-
chised aliens). It has no duty to protect the rights of
non-citizens. If any individuals want to go out and
protect these non-citizens, then let them do so with
their own bodies and their own resources. Many

Americans acted in this manner in the 1930s by
going to Spain to ﬁght Franco.

Furthermore, government, unlike most otherbusi-
nesses, forces its customers to buy its services. This
act is itself a rights violation and thus immoral, but
to expand these services to non-paying customers is
to add insult to injury. The government has no right,
much less a duty, to protect or otherwise serve
non-citizens. ;

Enter the Bosnian debacle. Clearly, the sending
in of troopsto Bosnia violates at least criteria two and
three. Paying for the “war” will certainly cause
higher conﬁscation of private wealth, and the rights
of American citizens are clearly not at stake. Thus,
the two oft-quoted justiﬁcations for involvement,
“moral imperative” (i.e., duty) and “national inter-
est,” are clearly incorrect. The only thing truly at
stake is the credibility of the American government
within NATO and the UN, which I believe should be
shattered to the greatest extent possible, if it means
fewer expeditions to foreign lands.

Haven’t we learned from Somalia, Haiti, and
other recent entanglements? In Somalia, we decided
to take on police work and nation-building, mean-
while taking casualties for the New World Army,
and in Haiti, we reinstated an avowed Communist
and mass murderer in order to impose our version of
the white man’s democracy.

Opponents of foreign involvement often cite the
impracticality of the particular mission. This accu-
sation rings especially true in the case of Bosnia.‘
Most military experts and most historians realize
that American soldiers will die copiously, and that

' the Balkan conﬂict will not be resolved. Even Henry;

Kissinger, the devout intemationalist, has proclaimed‘
the current peace program unworkable and unen-‘

forceable, f_or it forces into a federation two ethnic. -
groups that generally hate each other, the Croats and I_"_

the Muslims. Hundreds of years of hatred are simply"
not soluble by 20,000 armed Americans. ~ L

Thus, intervention in Bosnia is unjustiﬁable either on‘
utilitarian or on moral grountb. On a broader scale,
America should return to an “isolationist” policy perspec-)
tive adopted all too infrequently in the past.

3

‘I

I

7

1

 

 

, K

:The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1995

»

mcvv

».
5

GREENLAND
Betsy Green

Before I start this column of holi-
day joy, I want to dedicate it to my
good friend Ashley of Hollins Col-
lege. Ashley is one of my many fans (I
like to pretend) and has told me that if
I mention her name in one of my
articles, she will get me to autograph
it and will hang it on the ﬂowery wall
of her Hollins room. I can see it now:
Ashley will come up to her friends at
school and say, “You guys, my friend
Betsy at W&L mentioned my name in
her column!” They’ll look at her du-
biously and say, “Ashley, there’s no
way a W&L woman is friends with
you. Now put on your pearls. It’s time

' to go horseback riding.”

Okay, on to my point. It’s time to
start your Christmas shopping. Since
we’re all lost in academic pursuits
(Christmas weekend? What’s that?),
I’m sure most of us haven’t gotten a
chance to do our shopping. But as
always, I’m here to help you all out
with Betsy’s No-Fail No-Money-Back
Guaranteed Christmas Shopping List.

Catchy, isn’t it?

Your Girlfriend: You know
you should be romantic and senti-
mental, but you also know you ’ll prob-
ably only screw it up. So why not just
go with that and
buy her jumper

that or give him earplugs, saying that
it’s going to be “a rockin’ New Year.”

Your Parents: Give your dad a
copy of the new unrated Showgirls
and give your mom a pair of lsotoner

cables? You know

Christmas advice from the expert

that’s what every
woman wants.
Would I steer you
wrong? And
throw in a pair of
thong underwear,
too. What the
heck; it’s Christ-
mas!

Your Boy-
friend: Give a
gift that says, ‘‘I
love you just the
way you are,” like
a big ol’ bag of
Doritos and a six
pack of beer. His
friends will be
way impressed.

. slippers. Let the
C 6

fun begin.
Y o u r
Zizur (girlfriend;

You know you should
be romantic and sen-
timental, but youalso
know you’ll probably
only screw it up. So
why not just go with
that and buy her
jumper cables? You
know what every
woman wants.

 

Y o u n g e r
Brother: Get
himaW&Lshot
glass. When
your parents
look worried,
tell them it’s for
him to put quar-
ters or Q-tips in.
Snicker behind
their backs.
Your Sis-
ter: No gift
could be more
smug and con-
descending than
a subscription to
TigerBeat.
Your Pro-

Your Roommate: Give him a
10 pound bag of onions to guarantee
he won’t hook up for the rest of the
year. Your peace is assured. Either

 

E. Nelson St., Lexington

7/z'a¢7/z&¢e

umowana STORES "’

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items
Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

 

 

at
3.

2;?
‘ii.

 
  

a gallery with a difference

A cooperative of Rockbrldge artists. selling a
dazzling array ofbcautlful art 6: cmﬁwork

   
 

fessors: Let’s face it: if you are
considering giving your professors
presents, your grade status is pretty
clear. Why not be honest about your
situation and give him cash. Or a

kidney.

The Person Who Has Every-
thing: Nothing. That’ll teach them
to have everything! Hah! Sorry, l’ll
calm down.

Aunts, Uncles, Cousins, and
so forth: The natural choice is al-
ways a W&L sweatshirt. It works for
anyone and you can charge it home.
But if you- used that trick last year, try
this one. Most discount stores—K-
Mart, Wal—Mart, and so forth—sell
special holiday gifts. They usually
come in red and green boxes and have
“Great Gifts” or something like that
printed on them. “Great Gifts” is a
misnomer. They’re usually things like
mechanical tie racks, spark plug gift
sets, and fruit cake. A gift like that
screams one of two things: “I know
you well enough to get you a present,
yet I know nothing about you and
have no idea what to give you,” or

' instead of “When you care enough to

send the very best,” “When you don’t
give a damn and you don’t care who
knows.

Still stuck? For ﬂattery or a
small fee, you can get someone’s name
printed in my column. What the
heck—I’m easy. Your name in print

makes a great gift—-just ask Ashley.

corrrr FUNITURE

IO9 S. Jefferson Street
163-117 6

"The Discount Bedding Store"

The cheapest prives on Amatresses. etc.
New mattress sets as low as
$99

_ Sofas, chairs, tables, etc.

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of John Sayles’ haunt-
ingly beautiful The Secret of Roan
lnish (USA/Ireland, 1994).

Screenings will include the “nor-
mal” 8:05 pm showings on Friday,
December 1 and Saturday, Dec. 2,
as well as a special matinee perfor-
mance at 2 pm on Sunday, Dec. 3.
(This performance has been added
in the hope local children might
attend the performance.) All screen-
ings will be in the Troubadour Cin-
ema, at the comerof Main and Henry
Streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission. This film is in En-

glish.
Study Break

. There will be a study break for
all students Tuesday, Dec. 5 in the
Warner Center. Basketball touma-
ment starts at 9 pm in the Warner
gym. A step aerobics class will start
at 10 pm in Doremus. Free food.

’97-’98 Schedule

The Registrations and Class
Schedules Committee and the F ac-
ulty Executive Committee are in-
terested in the community's com-
ments on th our proposals being
considered r the 1997-1998 un-
dergraduate academic calendar.
Please look at the four proposals
(on the on-campus newsgroup
wlu.talk.academic.calendar) and
give us your ‘two-bits.’ Thanks.

(You can access the newsgroups
through your favorite WWW
browser or through the Liberty lo gin
menu.)

Scott Dittman
University Registrar

Downhill Skiing

There will be a meeting of
the club downhill ski team at
6:30 on Thursday, Dec. 7 in the
Fairfax Lounge. For more in-
formation call Christine Bragg
at 462-4633.

   
    
 
 

 

 

opp 0190990’

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

 

Welcome Back Students

////a

   

/

\

 
 

  

‘ 

 

‘ 

|“WVVUN'Uﬂ1 compx1stn¢Pa1nt1ngp.Photo9'a h8.Scul tum. .
,,ms;-«mm & &m?;§m}$m, A" gear round 23 1\_1. Ma1n St. (703)463-5988
“‘*"',‘;",,‘.f‘“"‘“ Lexlngton, VA 24450
Open 10-5 llandqyvaotunmr
M0-I64-I 147 Annex. via C no Wiloouud

   

Low Prices

 

§\\

  .

   
 

 

lVISA

 

102 W. Washington Street

Embasy Boxers
Red Wing Boots
W&L Belts,
Ties, Dog Collars
Christmas Ties
Ray—bans

MASTERCARD

Tuxedo Rentals
St Sales
Golf Sweaters Gt

Ties

Hats, Gloves,

Scarves

STUDENT   CHARGE

 

 

    
            

  

 
 
 

      
  
 

 
   
     

     
    

  
 

    

    
   
  
   

 
 
 

~ :OCCCOOOOCO.‘.0000’OOCOCCOOOOOOOOCCOOOO: 
PRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun and. ‘ ' I " : A :
amaica from 299.00. Aii Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and , . :    L :
Morel Organize a small group and earn a FREE trip 2 . ‘ o 0
plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321 K ltﬁeC4‘CXr.(/"<3/Tr‘: . t : : ,_
. O Q
Q A. Q Cm-1 war pn-ms: Ltd EU_ for Sale 0 StonewareAngelOrnaments ' Handjscreened calendars o  i H‘ I ' o
 /  bg coi1ector..Po_pu1ar artists &Sculptures&Nat1v1tySets &Chnstrnas Cards : :
0 K””Sl‘.‘"i'iT'°“i"‘ ‘B L°?' "a°"". '5*°°*-Wtird Feeders '55R9810nalArt1sts Represented ; ;
« »~-~—~~———~~——~-~‘~~~~~—  -Wits A A = MADNESS s ALE = 
: campus Reps smoDre@vt.edu ' G"“°TaYl°' : o I
' C
‘' Needed SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL T I ‘ I
“‘ " PK“ TF3?! * (A H Io-um TRIPS, EARN CASH&GO FREE!!! 22 West Wasltfn Ion 454-3625 0 o -
;" * Nfw Sid 3. $ Eqvar StudentTrave1 Services ILS/I)1OW hiring Lexingtan g M9nday.5a,,mg,,y1o.5 : ‘ : A
.. M tamii::.i:*::°a::.*:.‘s¥.“isa,:::=:;its ‘egg   I Sunday!-4 ‘ . JUST IN TIME TO SHOP .
G °°"' P Ct’ B ll. 6 1l1-800—648- ' °
» 1-sao-999-ski-9 4322"“ ‘Y  3 aw» aura»-aw» : FOR CHRISTMAS’ =
0 I
LOSE 2O POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS : S I‘
Famous U.5. Womens ﬂloine Ski Team Diet 0 _ _ , , 0
During the non—snow off season the US. Women's Pllpine Ski Team members used the ‘Ski Team’ diet to lose 2O pounds in two weeks. That's right —- 2O pounds in I4 : 25% Off practlcally eVeryth1ng* at the University :
dogs! The basis of the diet is chemical food action adn was devised log a famous Colorado phgsician especlollg for the U.S. Ski Team. Mormal energg is maintained : Bookstore :
lverg importantD while reducing. You keep Tull -- no starvation -- because tl;1eO:i:tt i:.}odr::gned that wag. It's a diet that is easg to follow’ whether gou work. travel. or : Wednesday, D e C 6 mb e I. 6 : r
This is. honestly. a tantasticallg successful diet. If it weren't. the US. Women‘s Qlpine Ski Team would be permitted to use it. Pight? So. give gourself the same break : 7 TO 10 PM :
the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scietitic. proven wag. Even if goulve tried all the other diets. gou owe it to gourself to trg the US. Women's Fllpine Ski Team : ' ° ° ° ' ° ' 0 9 ° ° ° ° ° 9 ' ° ° ° ° ' 9 ° ' ° ° ° ° ° ° 9 ° 0 ° 9 ° ° ° :
Diet. That is. if gou reallg do want to lose 2O pounds in two weeks. Order todagl Tear this out as a reminder.
Send onl $8.95 ($9.60l in‘ California) -- add $50 PUSH service to: Plmerican Institute. 72l E. Main Street. De t. 254, Santa Maria. C0 93454-4507. Dont order :  MAD : ‘n
9 P 0 0
unless gou expect to lose 2O pounds in two weeks! Becausethats what the Ski Team Diet will do. 0 Monday, December 18 o
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-----: l  :
I‘ ' ' 8-00 430 '
,- I \ I I - _ v
,.« /‘ \  ‘ ,. I I I \ \ l  I I : : .,.
., _, s. . x v II J I 0 0
 ,1}. D ,1, Let    \\ 4% J5  ‘not included: Textbooks, sundries, film... :
0,1 I ‘ II p  ' ICC...COCCCOCCOOCOCOOOCQQQQOOOCCQQQQQQQOO
I I I _ ' ’ ' " I
Your Student :: a I S : ,
I I I
Go Hungry :: , :  Restaurant and
"A Bistro ' A
I I , I ' O ) -
Harbs’ Point Card  8 am _ 3 pm _ Monday  ﬂoﬁﬁw 5L Olmﬂe A
T116  M631 T1Cl(€l ::8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
Redeemable   8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday : L _R0ute 7‘:/HBO?‘ 450
For only $90.00 I: ‘ I Nefhme H4%’4‘°"*9g;“e’
I I - I one -
. . Wednesday — Spaghetti & Salad .
Nutritious Muﬂins & Egg Specialties I: All YOU can eat 354-99 I
Fresh Salads & Soups '_': : Lounge open 4:00 pm. to? . *
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees :: Thursday - 10% off food — with student ID :. Restaurant 11,00 am_ to 930 p_m_
Candlelight Diners . . . _ ,
:: Friday — Seafood Nite - :
Give Your Student  Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout E T‘:
a Homecooked Meal With Our -- Saturday ‘ 8 °Z‘ Pmne Rm’ -
. I I 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95 I
Pomt Card :: E d M ff‘ &‘ C r C ff $1 : 
:: "W 3’ “ I“  "P"   :
9 --     (saw .- wami -
a r S :.'. Daily Lunch?Speci$ll,:_fWith5lI)t‘i§1 '
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 I: 19 w_ washin ton st_ Lexin ton VA 24450 I »
5 .3.

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIRIIII II,IIIIIIIIIIIII

  
     
 
    
   
   

  

***FREE TRIPS & CASH! l *** SKI 8 SNOWBOARD - WINTERBREAK 8 SPRINGBREAK '96
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with Intercollegiate Slzi Weeks, ONLY $219. Includes: 5 DAY LIFT
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, TICKET, 5 NIGHTS LOGDGING (LUXARY CONDO)/ 5 DAYS ,_
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL INTERCOLLEGIATE ACTIVIES (drinlzing agel8), Sponsors inclucle '
(800) 95-BREAKl Molson§1’l_al>atts. MT. Call Slei Travel Unlimited. (800) 999-SKI-9.
‘ DO You Want VISA 8;‘ MasterCard Credit Cards? C. {Camus CARD. Box 220615. Hoi_LwooD. FL 33022 : M‘ g
F I _ . ' I  ‘
° ..,........ '2?.'a.t°o‘:.‘3£.21'i$.‘!.?;i’J1{‘;f..":°2LL‘°.Z§;‘L".é’.'.:.‘2 - Y ES! Ivar-tvIsA°IMAsrI=RcARD° cum . nzuvzav muvsns
cltdIlc¢:;£dDs.r.i:|‘:irwA§l'; : (hnlsappmved   OIIIIIRNVEEIII :   I
VISAO and MasterCard0 the credit cards you I I  . ?«
deserite and need for— |D—BOOKS—DEPARTMl-INT 3 NAME 3 '
STOREs—TUIT|ON—ENTERTAlNMENT—- . . owe
EMERGENCY CASH—TK2Kl-:1S—-RESTAURANl‘S- ' ADDRESS . ll row are 33 76°“ 0’ '1
Harri-:i.s—Mo'rr-:Ls—c.\s—cAR R1-:mA1.s— . have your own insured auto and
namns—AND TO Burn) Your: CREDIT RATING! : CITY .____.._.__ STATE _. ZIP ____. ' are 0 50,9’ counews CW8,’ _,
.ﬂg£U no turn dmms! ' PHONE _..—.._..__.... SS.” ' call your local Little Caesars
“T. ‘s«_‘g§‘9 No credit checks! : SIGNATURE : °r Owl’ m person’
‘ ml’ It In security deoosit! . nduldennlltduntathnll ammo-Lur. >~
'‘‘::;II':::: 05'?‘ 4 ' I "am i'ii‘2’.'7l'“;'.'l',.'Z.I..'§"§'.°......... cl VISA usA. in-_ IMITIISA Int.-nnllonnl I     '
°“ “ 55"“ ‘"5 °°""°" ‘°"“' I ' on aqua: opmrwy amplcv/er
Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE HAlIlIlGl . __________________g

  

.  - - V _‘

Q3_'u\~ ‘  

sttowboar »
$ 219

“r.ivtIilte.t.i\h.e.aIIii

IHIEICOLIIGIIYI SR! 711;’!!!
330-301: hulnﬁu
6 lobon I Laban: 9

«A 5 DAY sxi 2. snovisom
 urr TICKET

NIGRTS LODGING, ,.
LUXURY CONDO

DAYS 9. IIIGHTS Of

(Not A Lot Of Money)   iliiliiiiiiliiis -

®TovoTA    
TE REEL MSRP Starting vnaer3i10i. I. ‘ ‘ ""

SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY ®  » 3-  7 e »
I I Love What You Do For Me  ”
MSRP BASED ON TAX. TAGS, TITLE, FREIGHT, OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE. ' "‘ "' ""’k“"”'°"°°'"

1-800-999-Ski-9

       

 

_ 139.
‘ '‘ MIX ________1 lb. bag

   
  

HOLIDAY SAVINGS!

Regular Or Junior

Chiquita

  
  

Naturally Fresh Reg. Or
Fat Free Salad

Dressing _12 oz.
, Stouffer’s

. ‘§*a"_Y_‘§i?.§.T!*S?.?i P t S '
we    ar y ize

Fresh Express

Salad 99

Mm “V.” 5 \.uur

 
    
 

250°  ..  39¢

_2:j_.

Harris Teeter

Apple Juice

amsteeiei  

Soft Drink \Feature

  

 

2 Liter

Coke Or Diet

 Mardi Gras
Paper
“ Towels

' B O M ma Selected Variet_es
,,,,‘;,’,’,,,.,"[_’,,c,-2 Get White Rain Hair 9
Meatballs _2o°$'.‘? fee Produc_ts_4.u Ed

" Selected Varieties Elfggll 5"“-‘d 7° 9’

'l'ropi_cana 149
 46 0-2.
Prices Effective Through December 5.1995

. ~ - d , N b r29 Throu h December 5, 1995 ' In our Lexington store p
Pr8f1|SylrlN:hl§e::r5§eTCli|e/l1cfT_lriiill Q(li\;:?lll€eS. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamp: .

X

S
2

BeeL__~__u.. 599

PAGE 7

 

Cam Dyer
Men's Basketball

The senior forwardhas had no trouble pick-
ing up where he left off last year, when he
averaged 17.2 points and 8.1 rebounds per game
to earn second team all-conference honors.

Even though the Generals have started 0-6,
Dyer has once again been on target. The tri-
captain scored 27 points versus the Savannah
College of Art and Design, and notched 26
points versus Emory.

Dyer rolled past the 1,000 point mark in the
Emory game, and he passed the barrier in dra-
matic fashion. It came on a slam dunk.

p4.'NI.€£.'i£S
0? Hit W££I€

 

Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Cross Country

Maybe we should erect a shrine in this space
for Schaeffer, considering this is the third time
she has appeared here this fall. lt‘s only ﬁtting
that one of W&L’s best athletes ever closes out
her cross country career as Athlete of the Week.

The senior ravaged the South Region Cham-
pionships course for the third time in her four
years, prevailing in a time of 18:47 to earn a
berth at the NCAA Division III Championships.

Schaeffer performed admirably at the NCAAs
as well, ﬁnishing ninth in a time of 18:02 to
capture an All-America award for the third time.

Christmas Eve with Jerry,
Neon Deion and the ’Boys

THE BIG FAN, from Page 8

letic teams. I am also confident that the W&L football team
would give VMI a tough battle if the two teams were to
challenge each other on the gridiron.

Sure, these two schools may have very few similarities,
and there historically have been some ill-feelings, but this
bad blood has mainly been confined to the past. If you want
to see teams that absolutely do hate each other, check out an
Auburn-Alabama or a California-Stanford game.

VMI and W&L are scheduled to play each other in
basketball again next season, so hopefully, this will be the
start of another tradition.

For one night, thanks to a television broadcast by Chan-
nel 7 of Roanoke, Lexington was in the spotlight. Hopefully,
this can occur more often.

We’ll now return to the regularly

Now dash away! Dash away! dash away, y’all!”

Despite this collection of talent, St. Jerry wanted more
This year, he would tolerate no less than twelve-and-four
So up to Deion’s mansion, the Cowboys’ bandwagon

moved,
With the wagon full of cash, and St. Jerry too-

And then in a moment, Deion heard on the deck

St. Jerry trying to keep the grousing players in check.
As Deion closed the door and began to turn around,
Into the nine-car garage, St. Jerry came without a sound.

He was dressed all in black from his head to his toe,

With his ego tarnished from losses to the Niners, his
closest foe;

A large bag of money he had thrown on his back,

And he danced in like Bryan Cox
just after a sack.

scheduled column, which is now in
uncharted territory: white space. l’ll
try to make good use of it by formu-
lating a Christmas tale which I’m
sure you’ll someday tell your kids:

‘Twas the Night Before Christ-
mas at Deion Sanders ’ house

‘Twas the night before Christ-
mas, when all through Deion’s home

Not a sound could be heard, not
even in the Astrodome

Deion’s wallet was placed by the
bar with care

In hopes that St. Jerry soon would
be there;

  

Photo by Stephen Dunn, Allsport

Deion Sanders forsook 49ers
red for Cowboy blue this year.

As Deion watched, he began to
wonder about the fun

Of wearing gray and white, while
making interceptions.

But baseball or football- how could
he ever choose

The turf he would tra"eise in his
Nike shoes?

Deion knew he had Ed DeBartolo
and the 49ers to blame:

They wouldn’t even let him play
wide receiver on his Sega game!

He was also growing very weary
of yearly contract hassles;

Gosh, the Niners might soon ex-
pect him to make tackles!

 

t J

The NFL players were nestled
all snug in their beds,

While visions of multi-million dollar contracts danced
through their heads;

And Deion softly climbed from his pool while singing
some rap,

Hoping that free agency would put number twenty-one
on the map,

When out on the deck there arose such a clatter,

Deion sprang from his jacuzzi to see what was the matter.

He took off his sunglasses, but his gold necklaces re-
mained dangling

As he quickly strutted toward the site of the banging.

The recent winter storm of freezing rain, sleet, and snow

Would give Leon Lett bad memories of Thanksgiving
two years ago,

When suddenly, Deion saw objects appearing to be toys

But no- it was a bandwagon and eight large Cowboys,

With a little old driver so self-satisﬁed and merry,

Deion knew in a moment he must be St. Jerry.

More rapid than Eagles and Cardinals they came,

And he negotiated, and pleaded, and called them by
name:

“Now, Aikman! Now, Emmitt! Now Moose and Irvin!
On, Haley! On, Woodson! On, Novacek and Newton!
To the top of the conference! To the top of it all!

 

/9 5. zcwdatﬁé St.

St. Jerry knew he had to move now, for he was under the
un

g He was still mainly known as the man who ﬁred Jimmy
Johnson

Circumventing the salary cap was all St. Jerry would
need to do,

To sell lots of jerseys, logos, Pepsi, and Mountain Dew.

So in much less time than it takes Aikman to get sacked,

That swift St. Jerry signed Deion to a long-term pact.

As he opened the crystalline door and was greeted by the
chilly air,

St. Jerry pumped his fists- he would DEFINITELY NOT
revenue share!

He swaggered to his bandwagon, to his team he gave a
whistle,

And they all reached new heights faster than a missile.

But the NFL heard him exclaim as the Cowboys contin-
ued their climb-

“Happy Christmas to all, and get ready for Prime Time!”

Walt Whitman I’m not, but it was worth a try. Consid-
ering Neon Deion Sanders, Jerry Jones, and the Dallas
Cowboys are all the universe ever hears about anymore, this
story seems appropriate.

Anyway, I wish everyone a merry Christmas, thanks for
reading, and l’ll see you back here in the new year!

  
 

463-2742

 

 

Last Week:

Mlhsmrasu. - L, 90-61, vs. John Carroll, L, 93-79, vs. Kauks
at Carnegie Mellon Invitational; L, 100-62, at VM1;
L, 65-60, at Hampden—Sydney
Wnsnrmsu. - L, 50-40, vs. Sewanee, ‘-4’ 85-40, vs. Rose-
Hulman at Sewanee Tip M.‘ ilassic-, L. 65-46, at RMWC
Mcaoss Courrmx - Finished 21st at Division III Championships
Wcaosa Cour:-ray - Josephine Schseﬁer ﬁnished ninth at
Division Ill Championships
Wswnntma - W, 134-69, vs. Sweet Briar

PAGE 8

S

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

This Week: ’ *

Wn:arI.n«:-

Fri.-Sat. at Lebanon Valley Invitational

 - Sat. at Guilford. 7:80 PM; Mon vs.
Bridgewater, 7:30 PM; Wed. vs. Emory & Henry, 7:80 PM
 - Sat. at Guilford, 5:30 PM;
’l\1es. at. Bridgewater, 7:00 PM

 -
WSIImnNo-

Fri.-Sat. at Johns Hopkins Invitational
Fri.-Sat. at Johns Hopkins Invitational;

Tues. vs. RMWC, 8:30 PM

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team has been
. struggling through their first six
games of the season.

During their Tip-off Touma-
ment the Generals dropped a
game in overtime to Emory Uni-
versity, 89 to 86.

Despite the hard loss, the
Emory game did contain a
memorable highlight. Senior tri-
captain Cam Dyer scored his
1,000th college career point on a
dunk in overtime.

In the consolation game,
W&L, plagued by 50 percent
foul shooting, lost to Albright 85
to 77.

OverThanksgivingbreak,the
Generals traveled to Savannah
College of Art and Design where
dismal shooting in the first half
gave W&L too large of a deﬁcit
to recover. Despite an 18-2 run
in the second half, the Generals
were defeated 72 to 64.

The team ﬁnished the break
at the Carnegie Mellon Invita-
tional, where they dropped games
to John Carroll, 90 to 61, and
Keuka College, 93 to 79.

With a record of 0 and 5,
Washington and Lee was ex-
pected to go into Tuesday night’s
contest with Virginia Military
Institute and willingly accept

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, CROSS COUNTRY

what had been billed as an inevi-
table defeat. The Generals, how-
ever, came out with great inten-
sity and managed to keep the
Keydet lead to only seven points
at the half.

Tri-captain Cam Dyer said,
“We played hard. If we approach
every game with that level of
intensity then we’ll have a real
successful season in the ODAC.”

But in the end, the athleticism,
quickness and depth of the Divi-
sion I VMI squad overpowered
Washington and Lee by a score
of 100 to 62.

in the opening minutes of the

first half VMI jumped to an early
lead, but then became compla-
cent. The Generals took advan-
tage of the Keydets’ tentative-
ness, denying their transition
game and forcing them to play
some half-court offense unlike
their usual stun and gun style.
' The Generals were helped
under the basket by 6’6” Eric
Zavolinsky, 6’5” Kelly Dyer and
6’7” Cam Dyer.

Washington and Lee head
coach Kevin Moore started this
big lineup, hoping to combat the
fact that the Generals have been
out-rebounded in all ﬁve of their
previous games.

But the Generals, despite
showing great improvement in
their inside game, had trouble
handling 6’5” 1st Team All
Southern Conference senior for-
ward Lawrence Gullette and 6’ 7”

Men's Basketball:

W&L endured another
tough loss on Thursday night,
falling to defending ODAC
champion Hampden-Sydney,
65-60.

The Generals led 29-21 at
the break, and extended their
advantage to as much as
twelve in the second half.

The Tigers roared back with
a late 8-0 run to grab a 61-53
edge. W&L pulled to within
three, but two free throws with
six seconds remaining clinched
the win for the Tigers.

Chris Couzen scored 16, and
Cam and Kelly Dyer each added
12 for W&L, now 0-7 overall.

J ockShortS

 

    

Phoo urtesy of W&L Sports lnforrnation
The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team, depicted here in this year's A

team picture, played tough against VMI, but lost, 100-62, to fall to 0-6.

freshman standout Brent Conley.

The Washington and Lee
frontcourt lineup has been no-
ticeably weakened by the loss of
6’5” senior tri-captain Derek
Carter. Carter, a solid defender
as well as a legitimate three point
threat, has been out with a knee
injury. He is expected to return
after Christmas.

The Generals were plagued
by several things on Tuesday.

They committed thirteen turnovers
in the ﬁrst half alone.

Moore hopes to see his team
making no more than fourteen
turnovers per game.

Shooting from the ﬁeld also
remained a problem for the Gen-
erals, who posted a 28.8 percent
performance.
progresses, Moore hopes to see
his athletes playing more deci-
sively and under control, making

As the season_

Women’s Basketball:

The women also dropped a
contest last night, succumbing
to Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College, 65-46.

The Generals trailed 30-18
at halftime, and could not catch
up, as they fell to 1-2 overall.

Sandra Holmes led W&L
with 15 points, and Chrissy
Burghardt notched 13.

Women’s Swimming:

The Generals captured their
23rd consecutive league win
Thursday with a 134-69 trounc-
ing of Sweet Briar. The last
W&L ODAC loss came in 1987.

more of their close range shots.

Entering the second half, the
Generals were obviously fa-
tigued. The Keydets regained
their fast transition game, led by
senior guard Bobby Prince.

Asthe game progressed, VMI
head coach Bart Bellairs was
able to rotate his players often,
eventually playing everyone on
his roster.

W&L was hurt by the depth

DECEMBER 1, 1995

VMI storms away in second half »
W&L keeps it close in first half of teams’ first meeting in 54 years

of the VMI team more than any- ”

thing. Coach Moore admits that
the Generals are struggling with
their own depth, but hopes that
with a few more solid recruiting

classes, they will successfully be r

able to play an up-tempo style

similar to Bellairs’.
Washingtonand LeeandVMI

have not met on the hardwood

since the 1941 Southern Confer- ”

ence quarterﬁnals in Raleigh,
North Carolina, where VMI de-
feated W&L 39 to 32.

But now that the rivalry has
been renewed between these two
schools, whose campuses col-"
lide, the W&L-VMI basketball
game may become an annual
event, with proceeds going to the
Rockbridge Area Recreation
Organization. ,,

Despite the loss to VMI,
Moore and his players seem
pleased with their performance
and are conﬁdent going into
Thursday night’s game against
defending Old Dominion Ath-"'
letic Conference champs
Hampden-Syndey.

Moore hopes that the team
will use the conﬁdence and poise
they gained from their ﬁrst half»
successes as a “springboard into
the ODAC.”

Zavolinsky said, “We came
out with a lot of intensity against
VMl...I think if we keep our in-
tensity up once we get into the
ODAC’s, we’ll be in much better
shape.”

Women’s hoops

splits in Sewanee

By BRIAN F031
Phi Staff Writer

T9

After a slow start, the Washington and Lee women’s hoops squad
exploded out of the gates with an 85-40 scorching of Rose-Hulman
in the consolation game of the Sewanee Tip-off Classic.

The Generals’ big win came on the heels of a frustrating 50-40,,
loss to Sewanee in the opening round. Head coach Terri Dadio
credited the big turnaround to “a better team effort, great defense and

a little weaker competition.”

A large part of the dramatic change in point production can be
credited to a much better shooting percentage in the second game.
In the season-opener, Sewanee held W&L to an anemic 36 percent
from the floor, while the Generals hurt themselves with a 43 percent

performance at the charity stripe.

In the Rose-Hulman game, the team turned it around, finding
their stroke, and hitting at a clip of 51 percent.

Coach Dadio was happy with the Generals’ performance versus’
Rose-Hulman, but feels that their best chance of winning isn’t in a
run-and-gun shootout, but when they “play good solid half-court
defense and try to get easy baskets, or baskets out of our half-court,

motion offense.”

The Generals prefer to play at a more controlled tempo because-0
their bench is only four deep, which hamstrings their ability to make
a lot of substitutions for tired players. Another resultof the shortage
of manpower is that with nine players, members of the coaching staff
often have to step in and play during scrimmages so that the team cant.
simulate true ﬁve-on-ﬁve game conditions.

According to Coach Dadio, the team’s goals this year are to “be
more competitive in league play, improve every game, and make the
ODAC tournament, which means ﬁnishing in the top eight in the

conference.”

In order to accomplish these goals, the team will have to hope foi“
solid seasons from senior co-captains Sandra Holmes and Allison

Hull.

So far, the two have responded well to the challenge,

combining for twenty-eight points and twelve rebounds in the win

over Rose-Hulman.

Coach Dadio is pleased with the perfcrrnance of the entire team,»
and how they have responded to ,a limited roster, saying, “our
numbers are small, but our hearts are big.”

W&L cross-country"
teams finish season

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

After breezing by the com-
petition at the South Region
Championships, the W&L
men’s cross country team earned
its ﬁrst team berth in the Divi-
sion Ill championships.

W&L competed for the title
against twenty other schools at
the national championships, held
at the University of Wisconsin-
LaCrosse. W&L’s runners re-
ceived a rude awakening at na-
tionals, ﬁnishing last overall.

Jason Callen was the top ﬁn-
isher for the Generals, coming
in at 141st place. Finishing in
back of Callen was fellow sopho-
more Taylor Shultz in 147th
place, senior Brad Paye in 163rd

place, sophomore Will Olson in

169th place, and freshman
Darrick Alford in 180th place.
The team title was captured
by Williams, and the individual
winner was North Centra1’s John .
Weigel with a time of 23:58.
The women’s team also ended
their season at the national cham-
pionships with senior Josephine
Schaeffer running her last race

for the Generals. "‘

Schaeffer capped off her il-
lustrious career by blowing away
the ﬁeld at the South Regionals
in a time of 18:47, and qualifying

for nationals for the fourth).

straight year. She placed ninth at
nationals, with a time of 18:02, a
mere 37 seconds behind the win-
ner, Jessica Caley of Williams.
Schaeffer added another All- A

America honor to hertrophy shelf
to gowith two otherAll-America
honors, three South Region titles
and 29 career victories.

 

