 

X

X

-A

L

Behinal the lens with
W Patrick H1'ne/ya

  

_ 7 " '..l,‘:3 _,:_;.v',,¢._f,’;\/
Y  . s  ;..>.~a «..-uamrerzw
 .153‘; Jt~.«, :>'ﬁ\ mm»

GET ii 6 19”’

Fllllllilll snu 5EAlll.'ll|Nli
FIIR FIRST vision 6

,/
~52;

 Chi: ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

1
VOLUME 9%, N0. 5

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

‘-

A christening of sorts

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 6, 1995

Panhellenic revises
sorority Rush rules

By TURNER FIELD
Phi Staff Writer

With men’s Rush already in the distant past,
W&L women are now gearing up for this winter’s
sorority Rush. The fall is a time for potential rushees
to become acquainted with the four sororities on
campus and their respective members. But the
Panhellenic Council has established several new
important rules about fall contact between upperclass
sorority women and potential rushees.

Panhellenic instituted two new rules this fall. The
first bans “hotboxing,” which is when two or three
girls belonging to the same or different sororities box
a girl into a comer at a pany with the intent of rushing
her. This rule states that a potential rushee must
remain on the outside of the group when talking with
sorority members.

The second new rule to go into effect this fall
forbids sorority members from giving cold tests to
potential rushees.

There are many other rules that Panhellenic has
established over the years in hopes that sorority Rush
will be as fair as possible. Sorority members are not
allowed to have contact with women with the intent

to rush them. No sorority may be mentioned exces-
sively to a potential rushee. Sorority members are not
permitted to give gifts of any kind to a potential
rushee. Actives may not have potential rushees at
their residences, and if a party is being given at the
active’s residence, members of at least two other
sororities must be present. Sorority members are not
allowed to enter freshmen dormitories wearing so-

rority paraphernalia. The offering of rides to poten- ,

tial rushees is prohibited under any unorganized
circumstances. Study groups with potential rushees
are allowed, but they must be held in public places,
and no sorority paraphernalia may be visible during
such times.

Rush Orientation took place on the 28th of Sep-
tember when many of the preliminary details of Rush
were discussed. The next important date is October
23rd which is Rush registration. The location for
registration is still to be announced. After this date,
closed contact begins and sorority members are no
longer allowed to have any formal, organized Contact
with rushees. This includes visiting rushees in their
donns and having meals with them.

Sorority Rush officially begins January 12, when
girls fonnally meet with each sorority. Until then,
Panhellenic hopes the established guidelines and
rules ensure fairness and unbiased attitudes between
the sororities and potential rushees.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

building in progress.

In an odd rite of passage, Cadaver Society's mysterious signs decorate the new science

FLC leads Class of ’99 in exciting year

BY RACHEL GODDU
Phi Staff Writer

Being a relatively new group on campus, the FLC has a lot of
ﬂexibility with which to work. A group at W&L without 100 or so
years of precident and tradition behind it is certainly a rarity.

The most pressing concern for the FLC members is the fresh-

The newly selected Freshman Leadership Committee (FLC)
began its busy year last week. The thirteen member committee is

looking forward to an exciting, eventful year.

The committee is dedicated to the task of organizing freshmen
class activities. The soon-to-be elected Freshman Class President
and Vice President will serve in leadership positions over the FLC.
Also overlooking the F LC is Dean Manning, who was pleased with
the students’ “eager[ness] to contribute in the community,” and the
way in which they “re-embrace fundamental values and traditions

of W&L.”

The students were excited to be chosen from the over 60 initial

applicants and expressed their feelings on the FLC.

Molly McGregor stated, “I applied to the FLC because I really
was interested in taking a strong leadership position in ourclass and

helping to plan activities together.”

Nate Tencza, who will be handling the FLC’s secretarial duties,
commented, “The FLC is a perfect group to help develop our sense

of class unity.”

SAB elects newofficers,
plans this year's events

BY CELESTE Rasmussen
Phi Staff Writer

No one can deny the “play hard” aspect of life at
Washington and Lee. Every weekend, students en-
gage in a myriad of fun activities that range from
fraternity parties to spending a quiet evening with a
group of friends.

One of the main organizations in charge of sup-
plying fun activities to W&L students is the Student
Activities Board.

According to President Hollis Leddy, the purpose
of the SAB is to bring entertainment to W&L. Be-
sides sponsoring acts such as comedians, hypnotists,
and different functions such as Bingo in the Pit, the
SAB also is in charge of hiring bands for the big
weekends on campus, such as Homecoming, Christ-
mas Weekend, and FD.

Last week 43 new and returning members of the
SAB held their first meeting. Leddy mentioned that

. one of their main goals for this year is to try to please

man class Homecoming ﬂoat, about which they have been meeting
daily. Future possibilities include dances, fundraisers and a con-
tinuation of the Mr. W&L male beauty contest. Subsequent
meetings will be weekly assuming, as Nate fears, they “find a ﬂoat
and aren’t bobbing along in the back
of a pick—up truck!”

Freshmen with concerns or sug-
gestions are encouraged to contact
any of the FLC members. FLC mem-
bers include Wes Armstrong, Trey

_ Carr, Keri Dunphy, Maciej
Golubiewski,James Haslam, Pamela
Hubert, David Lehman, Noah Levy,
Molly McGregor, Sarah Moore
(Homecoming Chairperson), Mandy
Stallard, Nate Tencza (Secretary), and
Amanda Yates. Alternates include
Ashley Copps, Charles Leddy, and
Jann Rhea.

everyone by supplying a wide variety of new activi-
ties, such as an 80’s disco party and a jazz band:
She also noted that the SAB would like to bring
bigger bands to campus this year and cites Rusted
Root and The Beastie Boys as possible candidates.
Because the SAB is funded by the Executive
Committee, many of the events are free or at a
. minimum charge.
Leddy says that because of the activities fee paid

Rockbridge County unites
against domestic violence

BY MICHAEL Hr-zwuzrr
Phi Associate Editor

On Wednesday, the Lexington
community made a stand against
domestic violence and sexual as-
sault during a vigil in Hopkins
Green.

The event was sponsored by
Project Horizon, a non-proﬁt or-
ganization that provides educa-
tion and assists abused family
members, the Rockbridge chapter
of the National Organization of
Women, and the Rockbridge Area
Coalition Against Sexual Assault
(RACASA).

Lori Olan, Executive Director
of Project Horizon, said the vigil
kicked off Domestic Violence and
Sexual Assault Awareness Month.
She said they will organize speak-
ing engagements around the city

and county and will be doing dis-
plays, starting at Washington and
Lee University.

Many community leaders, in-
cluding Lexington city mayor
Buddy Derrick, spoke and signed
a proclamation declaring October
Domestic Violence and Sexual
Assault Awareness Month. Libby
Boyd, Executive Director of
Choices of Luray, was the fea-
tured speaker. She encouragedthe
audience to take action against
violence toward women and chil-
dren.

“Men, women, and children are
dying from murder, suicide...,” she
said. “Each voice added will mean
one less victim.”

W&L students and faculty at-
tended the vigil. Many W&L stu-
dents are volunteers with Project
Horizon.

“It’s good that people care and
are aware the problem exists in

Rockbridge County,” said Margie
Ford ‘97, “but we still need all the
help we can get because domestic
violence continues to threaten to
erode the spirit of women in
Rockbridge County.”

Junior Susan McMurry agreed.

“I think it’s a good idea to pro-
mote community awareness,” she
said. ‘‘I hope it will make more
people aware that there is a prob-
lem with domestic violence in
Rockbridge County, but there is
also a solution. Theres help for
the problem.”

Professor of Art Pamela
Simpson, who is also the adminis-
trator for RACASA, believed the
program did have an impact on the
community.

“There is a real healing process
that can happen when victims and
their supporters come together in
something like this. It lets every-
one know they are not alone.”

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Leyburn Library hosts a trellis upon which students and faculty can tie blue ribbons, denoting
their support for victims of domestic violence.

2

Tailgating rules to change again

by students in the beginning of the year, ticket prices
are kept around eight dollars. Their goal is to raise
about half of their budget back from ticket revenues.

For students interested in joining the SAB, inter-
views for membership positions are held every fall
and interviews for officer positions every spring.

This year’s other officers include Erin Harrison
(Publicity), Doug Kennedy (Treasurer), Robert
Covington (Rider), Chris Wick (Entertainment Di-
rector), and Eli Smith (Operations).

This weekend, as part of the Homecoming cel-
ebrations, there will be an SAB-sponsored concert in
the Pavilion, Widespread Panic. Leddy reminds ev-
eryone that tickets can be purchased outside of the
Co—op until Friday.

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Two weeks after the Washington and
Lee administration placed new restric-
tions on tailgating, they have changed
their minds.

Liberty Hall Ruins will be the site for
Homecoming Weekend tailgates instead
of the fenced in lacrosse ‘practice fields.

‘‘I think that will be a lot better,” said
Ryan Connolly, President of the lnterfra-

ternity Council. “lt’s more scenic and more
enjoyable for the students.”

After gathering student opinion, Dean of
Students David Howison decided to move
this weekend’s tailgate to the Ruins.

Tables and trash cans will be provided
for the various student groups who wish to
participate in the festivities. Trucks will
not be allowed to park near the Ruins,
however, for fear of damage to the lawn.
Party-goers will be able to set up at 12 noon
and will be encouraged to attend the game at
2:00 p.m. .

Director of Security Mike Young says
it’s a hope of the new limitations that more

students will watch the football team.

Associate Dean of Students Buddy Atkins
complained that tailgates have become like
Foxﬂeld. He said the original purpose of
“coming together to socialize” has been
turned into an opportunity “to go out and
get trashed.”

Young reiterated university concerns
over accidents.

“We need more control over this event
than in the past,” said Young, “because of
the increasing liability.”

Connolly said he understood this con-
cern, but “of course, I prefer the
traditional tailgating.

 

V BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

O.J. Simpson acquitted

Los Angeles—After an extremely short deliberation, a jury of ten
women and two men found Simpson not guilty of the murder of Nicole
Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. Positive and negative reactions to the
verdict throughout the country were clearly split along racial lines. Simpson
cannot be retried, but he could be forced to testify in civil suits brought by
the families of the victims.

Clinton vetos bill concerning

Congressional spending

Washington, D.C.——President Clinton vetoed a bill that pays the costs
of running Congress, telling Republican lawmakers that he will not
approve their spending bills until a federal budget is adopted. The country
is presently operating under an improvised spending bill since the end of
the ﬁscal year, September 30. According to Clinton advisors, the President
used the veto “to express his concern over what was sometimes pretty
pathetic work on the budget” by Republicans in Congress.

Bosnian troops attack Serbs

Sarajevo-—ln what US and U.N. officials are calling an extremely
damaging move, Bosnian military forces attacked the Serb strongholds
around Sarajevo Tuesday in an attempt to cut off supplies to the Serbian
forces who are continuing their siege on the Bosnian capitol. This military
action, which included the use of heavy artillery around Sarajevo is in
violation of weapons agreements made with peacekeeping forces and
could cause an enormous setback in the efforts toward ending the Serbian
siege and all warfare in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

Pope arrives in United States

Newark, NJ—Pope John Paul II arrives in Newark on Wednesday for
a five-day visit to the United States. During his time here, he will say Mass
in Baltimore and address the United Nations on human rights issues. Polls
report that American Roman Catholics are largely supportive of the Pope,
but many are in moral conflict with a Roman Catholic Church which they
believe does not address modern concerns. The Pope, it is reported, will
refer to many such issues in a reprimand to Americans for endorsing
euthanasia and abortion, among other topics which he views as a violation
of the American belief in basic human rights.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

GOP WATCH

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a
specialweekly feature to keep Washing-
ton and Lee's students informed about
the Republican Presdential Campaign
in advance of Mock Convention.

Dole caught in tax cuts debate

As Republicans senators clash yet again on the issue of the proposed tax
cuts, Senate Majority Leader and Presidential hopeful Bob Dole is caught
between moderate and conservative GOP factions. Moderate Senate
Republicans this week suggested a four-year tax reduction plan which
would cut federal revenue by $152.2 billion as a substitution for a seven-
year plan which would cut tax dollars by $245 billion. Conservative leaders
insist, however, that any temporary tax cuts are a compromise which the
GOP cannot make. Dole’s comments on the issue have been construed by
some as reﬂecting an ambivalence which could cause serious problems for
his bid for the party nomination. Debate on the tax reduction proposals will
continue next week during the meeting of the Senate Finance Committee.

Dole, Gramm clash over

affirmative action ban

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and Senator Phil Gramm, both
candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination, were embroiled in
a conflict over the necessity of immediate Congressional action to ban
affirmative action this week. While the elimination of affirmative action
programs remains a major Republican goal, Senator Dole has repeatedly
delayed Congressional debate on the issue for several reasons, including
the urgency of the Medicare issue, and the likelihood of a presidential veto
on any outright ban of affirmative action. Gramm, however, contends that
his willingness to bring the issue onto the ﬂoor will play a major role in the
GOP’s choice of a presidential nominee.

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

Simpson verdict  
captivates campus

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Where were you when the O.J.
Simpson verdict was announced?

With the same clarity of thought
and crystal-clear recollection our par-
ents possess when remembering the
JFK assassination, Generation X now
has its equivalent.

Alongwith millions ofother Ameri-
cans, the Washington and Lee commu-
nity was captivated Tuesday afternoon
when O.J. Simpson was found not guilty
of the murders of his ex-wife, Nicole
Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ronald
Goldman.

“The whole thing was just amusing
because it was such a production,” said
Helen Chandler, ’96.

The O.J. verdict was popular con-
versation Tuesday morning and was
further inspired by the banners around
campus urging the release of the ex-
football hero. Most notably, a banner
hung from the Co—op which read, “Free
the Juice today — #32.”

Some classes, normally beginning
at 1 p.m., were postponed so that stu-
dents and professors could gather
around television and radios.

History students on the third floor
of Newcomb Hall gathered intoaclass-
room and huddled around a prehistoric
radio.

Junior Adrienne Bryant said the
technical problems of the old radio
heightened the suspense because it re-
peatedly cut out when the verdict was
being read.

The Leyburn Library staff opened
Northen Auditorium to guests who
wished to stop by and watch the pro-
ceedings on the large-screen televi-
sion.

Journalism classes in Reid Hall gath-
ered in the large lecture room on the
second floor to watch as well.

Ethan Krupp, ‘97, was amused by
journalism professors who laughed
aloud when Judge Lance lto asked the
media to respect the privacy of the
jurors and not hound them for inter-
views.

Students in the Study Skills course
in the University Center walked down
to the GHQ to watch the verdict.

Many students skipped afternoon
classes to watch the coverage while
others came late.

One industrious freshman who had

an exam in a Calculus 101 class sched-
uled for 1 p.m. brought a walkman with
him. When the verdict was read, he
leaned forward to tell a friend. Upon
receiving quizzical looks from class-
mates, the student proudly proclaimed,
“The Juice is loose.”

Fraternity houses and dorm rooms
were also popular locations to watch
the ruling.

Junior Roderick Carmody heard the
ruling in the T.V. room of the Sigma
Chi house along with his brothers, house
cook, and two members of the cleaning
staff.

Perhaps the strangest spot in Lex-
ington where W&L students listened
to the verdict was the Intensive Care
Unit of Stonewall Memorial Hospital.

Junior Andria Greeney was volun-
teering that afternoon. According to
her, the Stonewall staff had a betting
pool on the outcome. Roughly 50
percent put their money on conviction,
while the other 50 percent put theirs on
acquittal.

“About half of the people were
happy with the ruling because they
won money,” said Greeney.

Despite the wide difference of loca-
tions students watched the verdict, they
seemed to agree that the verdict was
unfair. Indeed, many students were
disappointed with the ruling.

SeniorTory Noto commented, “The
trial was a farce. I thought it was a
travesty of justice. Personally, I think
he got off easy.”

“O.J. got off because of his presti-
gious reputation,” said freshman Claire
Cannon. ‘‘It causes us to doubt our
justice system.”

“They brought race into it and it had
nothing to do with it. He’s guilty and
everyone knows it,” said Bryant.

“l was not shocked by the verdict,”

said Jay White, ’96. “There was no ,

way a reasonable jury could convict on
that evidence even though he was guilty
as an s.o.b.”

Exchange student Nanu Segal, a
resident of England, was also intrigued
by the announcement.

“l was gob-smacked,” said Segal,
‘‘like I had been poked with an electric
cattle prod.”

Segal said the trial was covered in
the English media, but with less inten-
sity than in the U.S. media.

Watching American news is like
watching movies, said Segal.

Given the drama in the last two days
of the O.J. Simpson trial, many Ameri-
cans would undoubtedly concur.

College Republicans

BY CELESTE RAsMussEN
Phi Staff Writer

EDITOR’S NOTE: This is part one of a three-part
series examining different political organizations on

campus.

Whether they live in the C-School, are aspiring journalists, or just have strong

opinions, Washington and Lee students are no strangers to politics. This is
evident by the many political organizations present on our campus. One such
organization is the Washington and Lee chapter of the College Republicans.

With around 105 members, College Republicans is one of the largest political
organizations on campus. Under new leadership, their first meeting was held last
month and featured appearances by many local Republican campaigns including
Commonwealth’s Attorney candidate Bob Armstrong and his campaign man-
ager J.H. Kostelnl; Jeff Williams, campaign manager for Virginia Senate
candidate Emmett Hanger; and a representative from the office of Ben Nicely,
candidate for the 18th District House of Delegates. Also present were professors
Connelly and Rush and a representative from the local Rockbridge County
Republican Association.

Chairman Edyth Poecker cites many new goals for the College Republicans
this ear.

First, she would like to see an increased presence and a higher visibility of the
group around campus. Secondly, she would like to see the group have an active
participation in the upcoming Republican campaigns; and , ﬁnally, she would
like to bring new speakers and programs to the College republican meetings.

The Tusk, the newsletter of the College Republicans, states that the group is
interested in reassociating itself with the College Republican Federation of
Virginia and sponsoring trips to Washington, D.C. and Richmond, VA to see
historical sites and attend political conferences.

Other officers of the College Republicans include 1st Vice Chairman
Joshua Heslinga, Secretary Demian McGarry, and Treasurer Christina Petrides.
The group hopes to meet regularly on Tuesday nights and welcomes anyone
interested to attend.

Parking causes concern

BY RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

In the past there have always been places to park student
automobiles at Washington and Lee. However, recently the
lots around campus have appeared fully occupied, prompt-
ing some people to park on the grass, yellow lines, or other
non-designated areas.

According to the Director of Security Mike Young, this
is typical at the onset of each year.

“We tow some of them before they get the message,”
says Young. He also stated that as people get accustomed to
the new year the parking dilemma is usually alleviated.

Security officer Thomas Bane (“Baner”) agrees. “Think
of your buddy” by parking closer to the already parked cars,
leaving more space for those to follow.

Most lots designated for student parking, including the
freshmen lot, the Gaines Hall lot and the lot by the depot
across from the Lenfest Center, usually have spaces open.
Both Young and Baner agree that there is always room for
your car on campus, but if you can’t find a space, call Baner
and he’ll take care of it.

Students should be mindful to park in a registered lot,
however. Starting Monday, October 9, all cars without the
proper sticker displayed in the window will be towed.
Security has some unclaimed stickers if you have lost yours,
or another can be purchased for five dollars.

R

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor)‘

In an unexpected display of support, a banner at the Co-op
pronounces fﬁth in O.J. Simpson's innocence.

   
  
  

o is aimernber ofthe Sigma PhiV'Epsi1o;'ifratern1,
as ’diagnosed with a tneningococcal infection”;
. dent Vrscurrently listed in critical. condition at the Univ ’
ty';.Qt_?iV,irginia Hospital. No other cases‘ ofmeningoco at
f tion havebeen diagnosed at thistirne. A -  1
hasbeen learned that some inernbers of the Washington.
V Lee icommunity travelled to CharIottesvilIej‘o.v_eri VV
wee rid. Some Washington and  stude'nts”visite“ "
"gInéti::1?hi.Epsil' n fraternity e.W11,f,>l'¢. they may havejhee
xposed to the infection. As a result, thirteen individuals‘
Vnrrentlyreceivingprecautionarytreatmentagainsttheinf V _
tion"=7'Anyone. who visited the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternV.VVy;’ 
h e in Charlottesville over this past, weekend or anyone 
iw. . In ,y havehad close personal Contact with someonejyvhov
isitedthe Sig Ep house in Cha_flotte‘sville ’shoulV_d g _ V’  
»:diately-lto the‘: Student Healthfgenter-’:in the /bottdfn of 'Bake
'3I7f01'I1.1.“to“f’eceive‘the precautionary. treatrnent. f ' ’ 
V *I_)r;?Jane Horton, University physician, says the meningo
icoccal infection can be spread to anyone who hashad cl
-pe’rson'al. contact with a contagious person;'V‘Close per,
Contact is defined as extended direct contactofrnore than 1‘.
V hours over the pastfive to seven days with a “conta"gi
V . person. For example, roommates, hou'sernates,’boyfriend.s _
 girifriends would be considered to have had close person
¢gcontact_ with a contagious person. Ctassmates or those who;
havehad casual contact with a contagious person areno

   

    

        

  
  
  
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
   
    
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  

E

sidered tobe at risk. » xi . ,_
V 'I?h.e.:lsy_mptoms of meningococcal: infection are isin3‘ila_
e-symptoms associated with inﬂuenza (the fin): cough, so
»th_VroVa_Vt,' muscle and joint aches, .fever',.V_{co_ld ‘chi1Is;"and.he_a
_ ches-A distinguishing symptom of the rneningococcalin
Vfection isarash. Meningococcal bacteria are carriedin V e,
V jrnot th and throat and are transmitted through cone
 sneezing, and sharing food and drink. Meningococcal ‘V A
 tior‘1frnay.'cause meningitis, Whith symptoms of high rfevej "
vvomiting, and confusion or lethargy. ' ‘ V ' if _
_ ‘ «-Itis very difficult, if not impossible, to determine the origin, 
 'or-spreading points of a meningococcal infection. Because of
that difficulty and because of the vsimitarity to ﬂu-like syrrip M I
_to,"rrf1‘s§,*Eanyone who thinks that he or she may have symptom "
ociated with a meningococcatinfectionjshould go 
ito; the Student Health Center.y:,{VJniversVity physician
tanding by to evaluate.and.treat.anyone v.v.hoVmay~hav
ymptorns.‘ The Infirmary, located in the basement
Bai<Ver»Donn, is open 24 hours a day. The phone number 1
63-8401;‘ ’ ’ i . .  .
The University will continue to closely monitor the situa
 on and will notify the community if any other cases of
 rneningococcal infection are diagnosed. Pleaselisten to WLUR ;
— (91.5) or watch television Cable -2 for more information. You g; V
Vay also call the Dean of ‘Students office at 463-8751 or the? ’
_"'tI‘VVIews Office at 463-8460. . ‘ ~   

 

   
   
   
  
       
 
 
     
 
     
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
     
  
    
   
 

 

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The parking lotVon Nelson Street, though widely unknown, is an option for
studentVs looking for space for their cars near campus.

I»

V

 

‘ The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

R

(R.

)5.

#-

Q

 

By Tarah Grant

Pm STAFF WRITER

“Picture day again, Pat?” a coach
asks as he passes by.

“Everyday is picture day, ” Patrick
Hinely responds with a smile as he sets
up his equipment on the fifth ﬂoor
gymnasium. Today ’s assignment is
the “head and shoulder” shots for the
swim team.

He takes a roll of red electrical tape
out of his photo bag to mark where the
swimmers should stand. “Red tape-
something there is a lot ofaround here. ”

Having seen the university both
through the youthful eyes of a student
and through the camera lens as a staff
member, Hinely is familiar with every
aspect of the university. He ﬁrst came
to Washington and Lee in 1969 and
became an active member of the stu-
dent body by joining the Calyx staff.
With previous skills from serving as
the editor-in-chief of both his junior
high and high school yearbooks, Hinely
became editor of the Calyx as well.

In 1973, Hinely graduated from the
J-school “back when people thought

 

“This time, after I say, ‘Two, ’ don’t
blink”

Hinely was offered the position of
University Photographer in 1973. His
work appears in the annual engage-
ment calendar, the alumni magazine,
campus brochures, and varsity sports
team proﬁle booklets.

“There is a lot of manufactured
news. That’s what public relations is
all about—keeping the university look-
ing good. My job is part of that.”

While enjoyable to Hinely, his job
doesn’t always allow him to express
his creative side. For example, the
mug shots of the swim team that he is
shooting today are not much of a chal-
lenge as long as he remembers to load
ﬁlm into the camera.

Assignments can often be tedious
aswell. “A phone call from the Alumni
Ofﬁce saying they want 400 pictures of
last year’s senior class photo [taken]
four months ago usually isn’t the high-
light of my day.”

A group of girls arrives still drying
off their hair. One takes the initiative
and leaves the others to position her
toes on the red line. Hinely focuses his
camera.

“One...Two... ”

broadcasting was a passing high g‘ (:12;
fancy.” Originally thinking I ll. m
that he would go on to law .ackef,,, y
school and become a judge, I “hays
Hinely changed his mind f 1. n e
after taking the LSATS. one Two ,',
Instead, he decided to “hm  I
pursue journalism. “It was Su Used to
the year of Watergate; snﬁiw,
Woodward and Bernstein ,,T'.hat,S
were folkstars. The number t cu
of journalists increased 600- gig on; ,',
700% and the best job offer “"0 ka"
Igotwas under$100aweek G0 “he
doing work on Capitol Hill “One

for someone else’s by-line.”
Hinely decided to stay in Lexington.
The swim team members start to

' meander into the room. A boy runs his

ﬁngers through his hair and glances at
his reﬂection in the window of the
door. “Move up to the red ‘T. ’ Chin up
just a little bit. ' Good. One, two
three... Thank you. ”
Next up is a girl with long brown
hair. She thinks she closed her eyes in
the first shot and asks to have it retaken.

Two... Three... ' Click.
They leave and Hinely sits down
Indian-style on the floor to wait for the

rest. “I do this everyday, shooting
photos of other people, for other
people, ” explains Hinely. “The jazz
shots are for me. ”

Anyone who has visited the third
ﬂoor of Reid Hall is familiar with
Hinely’s more artsy work. His love of
jazz music leads to his favorite pastime

Wc%Life
‘EHIND THE LEN

‘An interview with campus photographer W Patric

S .

of photographing jazz musicians.

Before the Allman Brothers made
their claim to fame with Fillmore East,
they passed through Lexington. After
a concert, Hinely found them in the
gym tossing around a basketball. He
took out his camera and started taking
pictures. -

“This was the ﬁrst time I had an
opportunity to take a photo of musi-
cians that I could relate tc»-not on
stage but as real people.”

Hinely’s hobby developed from
there. As the rock and roll industry
grew, musicians moved away from the
personal level and became demi—gods
on stage. With agents and producers,
the stars were not within reach of pho-
tographers. They couldn’t be photo-
graphed as real people.

So Hinely turned instead to the night-
club scene, where musicians performed
for a few hundred people instead of
thousands. After their gig was over the
musicians would sit at the bar and
drink, giving Hinely the opportunity to
sit next to them and start talking.

“Originally it was just for fun, but
soon I began selling my work for
records and promotions. Back then, if
I wanted to make money I had to push
my own work.”

“Now,” Hinely explains, “things are
different. The phone rang the other day
and it wasa bass player from Malibu. I
had taken a series of shots for him
before and he wants me to do his next
album cover. They are looking for me
now and that’s real nice.”

Another member of the swim team
rushes in and sets her books on the

ﬂoor.

“You are the ﬁrst one to have dry
hair, ” H inely says.

“I know, I have class.”

“At Washington and Lee, we all
have class. "

Each year Hinely takes a ‘pilgrim-
age’ to a jazz festival in Berlin. He
usually tries to get a free-lance assign-
ment that will pay for the plane ticket
and other expenses.

Last year he had a photo show at the
Philharmonic Hall and three of his shots

_ H threeou "f
ta édby.s=an¢¢r‘6¥$Om¢;t30iht3aﬁtiini5—  .
e disturbing is the-fact thatmore and ,
en thougltvstuvival rates of  hatwii "

g aguosis,‘are' on the increase; i ’ , ,
also notes thatjcartcet is now’ theieadm
 experts: §ear,it will Msoon: replace heart disc

“wt _ tzeji I

to“  that  ,

i  of cancer ;')revent'on andtreatme

Devil in a Blue Dress

 what.’ " ended

flies across the screen

 

Devil in a Blue Dress — 3 stars

Devil in a Blue Dress has been ac-
curately compared to Chinatown, Ro-
man Polanski’s classic ﬁlm from 1974.
The similarities are tremendous: the
honest P.I. dragged into a murky, intri-
cate conspiracy, a mysterious femme
fatale, a scandal involving small chil-
dren, and of course the setting, the
boomtown Los Angeles of roughly ﬁfty
years ago.

Although Devil in a Blue Dress is

 .' ‘ —§='$=*m1"5-.»:'-'.‘ﬁ"‘ﬁrst-g‘i~i"":w5,g4~;

ultimately not as good a film as
Chinatown, it holds up very well in
comparison. Denzel Washington con-
tinues to dazzle us, and might very well
leave a body of work as strong as
Chinatown’s leading man, Jack
Nicholson. He brings an incredible

effortlessness to his character, re|uc—‘

tant hero “Easy” Rawlins; at every turn
we are as amazed as he is at the mess he
has gotten himself into.

In the supporting roles are a number
of ﬁne actors. Playing the primary
thug is Tom Sizemore, the wise-crack-
ing cop from True Romance. Just as in
that ﬁlm, he keeps here a certain ten-
sion right under the surface of the char-
acter, as if he is constantly ready to
explode in anger, not unlike Robert De
Niro as Al Capone in The Untouch-

ables.

Jennifer Beals seemed like a real
ﬂash in the pan after she disappeared
following Flashdance, but here she
makes an adequate return as the lead-
ing lady. Her portrayal of Daphne
Monet, the mysterious missing woman
Denzel is hired to ﬁnd, lacks depth, but
the ﬁlm moves so fast that little is
required of her.

This speed is really one of the
movie’s strong points. As inmost
period ﬁlms, it would have been easy
for the movie-makers to have envel-
oped us in the showy costumes, the
shiny cars, and the nostalgic slang of
the time; in Devil in a Blue Dress,
though, we are instead focused on the
storyline and plot,

Director and writer Carl Franklin,

whose only other effort was the criti-
cally-acclaimed One False Move,
speeds us through the film relentlessly;
when it was over, I felt as ifl had just
sat down, even though two hours had
elapsed. Even when nothing is hap-
pening on the screen, the audience has
just received somelittle hint orpieceof
information, so we’re always turning
over something new in our minds.

In the end, the film doesn’t quite
have the depth or atmosphere that other
modern detective classics like
Chinatown have. However, the won-
derful acting of Denzel Washington
and the tight, brisk directing of Carl
Franklin give Devil in a Blue Dress a
tension which makes it worth seeingon
the big screen.

, F‘ Three-star rating guide: Go see this film now, while it’s still on the big screen. It‘s worth 11 (‘cw Oscar nominations and the seven bucks

you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

were sold for record covers.

Hinely is pleased that his passion
for photographing jazz musicians is
proﬁtable, but the pure enjoyment of
the activity is in itself enough for him.

“The custom agent asks me, ‘Are
you here for business or pleasure?’
And I answer, ‘Both.’ Most of them
don’t have a sense of humor, though.
They get paid not to.”

As Hinely begins to take down his
equipment, the final group of swim-
mers comes in, assuring him that they
are the last of the stragglers. He ’II have
to come back tomorrow to photograph
the swimmers who didn’t make it to
practice today.

The coach waves a good-bye from
across the gym and Hinely returns the
greeting with an exaggerated wave,
standing on _one foot and leaning ove_r._

“ We have to be silly sometimes or else
life is far too depressing, ” he explains.

Placing his camera in its case as
gently as if it were a precious antique,
Hinely laughs to himself “My student
assistant thinks I ’m a dinosaur for not

PAGE 3

H irzely

using a camera with an autofocus lens,
but the problem with autofocus is that
it always focuses in the dead center,
and that’s usually not what I want. ”
Hinely is waiting for the day that the
focus can be adjusted with a mouse-

type ball at the top of the camera. The-

photographerwouldthenbeabletoroll
the focusing off-center. Until the, he’ll
stick with his manual equipment.

Off-center focus is just one compo-
sition technique Hinely uses when
making photograph. QuotingaFrench
photographer, Hinely says that he looks
for the moment when geometry and
emotion cross.

“Only one in 10,000 photos may
work at that level though. I run into a
lot of people, I guess amateur photog-
raphers, who look at my equipment
and say, ‘Geez, you must be a profes-
sional. l was going to do that once but
I got tired of wasting ﬁlm,”’

Hinely smiles. “Oh lord, if I get one
good shot out of 36, I feel lucky.”

Adjusting his straw beret and put-
ting his photography -bag over his
“George Gruntz Concert Band” T-shirt,
Hinely thinks about heading home. A
self-diagnosed victim of “voluntary
schizophrenia,” he isworking on spend-
ing more time with his family.

“When I come home and my chil-
dren say, ‘Mom, who is that guy?’ I
ﬁgure I haven’t been there enough.
I’m trying to be less hyperactive now
and I spent a lot of last summerwith my
children not doing much work. But, to
do anything well, you must do nothing
some of the time.”

Seemingly a bit deaf to his own
advice,Hinely has an upcoming agenda
that leaves little room for leisure time.
Recently having completed a show at
James Madison University as well as a
series of guest lectures, Hinely is now
preparing for upcoming exhibits.

From mid-October to the end of
November he ,will have a show at the
Lexington Coffee Shop, and plans are
being laid for a larger show in the law

~ . school this spring.

“This weekend is going to be really
busy because the World War II vets are
coming and l’ll be spending a lot of
time with them. But they are easy to
photograph because they don’t move
very fast.”

 

...Kevin Smith'sClerks
(USA, 1994), will be the next
presentation of the Washing-
ton and Lee Film Society. A
popular and low-budget com-
edy centering upon a young
New Jersey convenience store
clerk and his pals, Clerks was
listed by many critics as one of
the best films of 1994.The
movie will show free of
chargeFriday, October 6, and
Saturday, October7 in the Trou-
badour Cinema.

...The Chestnut Brass Com-
pany will perfonn the music of
Peter Schickele, among other
composers, in an evening of
versatile music on Saturday,
October 14. The free concert
will be at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest
Center and is open to the pub-
lic.

...Lex Williford, author of
Macauley's Thumb, a collec-
tion of ten short stories, will
give a reading at 4 p.m. on
Monday,October 16in Northen
Auditorium.

 

    

PAGE 4

E112 iﬂing-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Stand against violence

On Monday afternoon, W&L students, faculty
and Lexington residents gathered in Hopkins
Green to take a stand against domestic violence
and sexual assault. Libby Boyd, executive director
of Choices of Luray, read a poem: “I whisper to
the wind/He beats me/ I say a prayer that he will
go... ”

In our minds is burned the voice of Nicole
Brown Simpson calling the police about her
husband, the American football hero who rolled
down a highway in a white Bronco with a gun to
his head: O.J. Simpson. On Tuesday, we rushed to
the nearest TV or pushed our ears to the closest
radio, stopping our work, closing our mouths,
shutting down our lives, and waited for the
verdict, a verdict for which we had waited nine
months. Not guilty. The two words etched
themselves onto our minds. We either felt rage or
joy, shock or relief. Regardless of how we feel
about the verdict, one fact remains: O.J. Simpson
hit his wife. Let’s not forget that.

And let’s not forget the millions of women and
children who are physically and sexually abused
every year across this country. Even on our
campus, there are nameless women who have
suffered pain from their boyfriends and their
classmates, who have been violated by people
they thought they could trust.

This montliii   Abuse and
Sexual Assuali'Awareness Month. As we debate
the O.J. Simpson case, we must educate ourselves
about this issue and how it impacts our lives on
this campus. We must raise our voices because as
one speaker noted, “Each voice added will mean
one less victim.”

Quote of the Week

“Where’s Stop-In?”

‘—Freshman male provides
the first sign of pledgeship

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

~‘ WM as it.

 

.. well as as \/otkc v\o'\’ clam...

OJ) abouit your lo0s't\\c$$.“

 

   

How many times can one sky fall?

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

There were many remarkable mo-
ments in the OJ; trial. (Now before
half of youdiscard this column in dis-

gust, bear with me.) One of the single '

most astounding moments in the trial
came when lead defense attorney
Johnny Cochran compared former
LAPD detective Mark Fuhrman to
Adolf Hitler, based on racist comments
Fuhrman made.

This outrageous assertion appropri-
ately drew immediate and forceful de-
nunciation from Fred Goldman, the
father of one of the victims. Cochran

.d.id 31 disservi,<=e.t<.> bla9ks.¢vtzrx.vxh.e_r9._.

and insulted every survivor of the Ho-
locaust with his comment. He also il-
lustrated a very important ﬂaw in mod-
em liberalism.

At its root, there is little to be faulted
in liberalism. Who could possibly be
for racism, for discriminating against
handicapped people, against protect-
ing the environment, or against help-
ing the poor? However, the reality of
these problems does not excuse irre-
sponsibility in pursuing theirsolutions.

Liberalism incessantly promotes a
crisis mentality, in order to provide
some justiﬁcation, however specious,
for the expansion of government to
deal with the current exigency. The
only change is which issue presents the
life-threatening crisis of the day. Yet

this apocalyptic rhetoric may be the
single greatest impediment to address-
ing any of these issues.

Inevitably, a continual crisis dead-
ens human sensitivity the way
constant stretching finally breaks a
rubber band. (One need only look at
contemporary attitudes toward wel-
fare as an example.) And constantly
labeling every problem as the most
serious of all makes us incapable of
recognizingtrulyseriousdangerswhen
they do come along.

Does it really help the fight
against racism to compare a man
who made racist comments to the
leader of one of the greatest forces of
evil in human history? Clearlv not.
Rather, it represents nothing more than
liberal demagoguing on the issue of
race, and it only succeeds in trivializing
the Nazi regime.

 ,.,And,,l_est you think this propensity

,fo"r’”o”r’at’or’ical exaggeration is solely

an individual problem of""Mr.
Cochran’s, let me illustrate a few more
examples of this never-ending liberal
tendency toward irresponsibility and
lack of perspective.

Just last week, this newspaperwrote
an appeal for more access for the dis-
abled on W&L’s campus-—an indis-
putably noble cause. Unfortunately, the
editorial showed little thought and even
less of perspective.

Amidst proper questions of ramps
and other access, the editorial asked,
“Where are the braille signs directing
campus trafﬁc for those with low or
no vision?’’

I doubt this editorial is going to rally
support to the cause of blind driving.

Seeing eye dogs are capable of many
things, but reading street signs is not
one of them. Sadly, this passage is not
an isolated example or a joke. The
vaunted Americans with Disabilities
Act actually gives credence to this lu-
nacy through a horde of unhelpful and
counterproductive regulations.
Earlier this year, ‘ Republicans
came under fire for pointing out
the idiocy codi-
fied under the
ADA, including

save Medicare from bankruptcy, and
they have abandoned the U.S. to ex-
ploding debt by defeating the Balanced
Budget Amendment and resisting cru-
cial budget cuts.

And no one surpasses the apocalyp-
tic rhetoric of environmentalists. Envi-
ronmentalists are guilty of predicting
mankind’s imminent destruction for
over 30 years. lronically, it hasn’t hap-

requiring braille
keypads , on
drive-through
ATMs. The

ADA now‘ can
be used by alco-

holics to demand
disability com-
pensation for
their own alco-
holism. These
incredible‘ bu-
reaucratic night-
mares have cost

. pened yet.

And while en-
vironmentalists
At its root, there is
little to be faulted in
liberalism. Who could
possibly be for racism,
for discriminating
against handicapped
people. against pro-
tecting the environ-
ment, or against help-

today continue to
preach the dubi-
ous doctrine of
global warming,
it bears remem-

bering that they
were trumpeting

the dangers of
global cooling
only 25 years ago.
While they‘ decry
deforestati'on,
America has more
acres of forest land

businesses bil-
lions of dollars
and turned a
noble effort into
a regulatory morass. .
The entire message of the Demo-
cratic Party for the past several months
has been to declare that Republicans on
the Hill plan to starve the poor and
condemn elderly grandmothers to death
by lack of health care in order to pay for
unwanted, undeserved tax cuts for the
rich. In doing so, they have abandoned
the elderly by refusing to help Repub-
licans pass the necessary reforms to

ing the poor?

today than it did
when Columbus
landed, due to
technological ad-
vances in firefighting, timber usage
and transportation.

The list goes on and on. None of this
is to say that legitimate oroblems don’t
exist, but it greatly hurts efforts to
solve these problems for liberals to
abandon responsible debate in favor of
scoring points with short-tenn fear-
mongering and irresponsible exaggera-
tion. America needs and deserves much
more than that.

Ellis iﬂittg-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Assistant News Editor Rethany Bauman
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Smtt Bookwalter
Features Editor “indie Young
Photography Editor Retsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallaoe
Business Manager ""*'"1 Nelson
Assistant Business Manager "Mg Gcnncr
Adveﬁising Manse.» Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord
Cirwlation Manager Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily front advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
PM is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-turn Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wIu.edu

Just when you thought you’d outrun O.J

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

“Where were you when you first heard about
the murders?”

“Where were you when he took off in the Bronco
with AC. ? ”

“ Where were you when the verdict came down ? ”

Yes, gentle Far Middler, welcome to the hell of
the rest of your lives.

We don’t get to be the WWII kids and remember
where we were when we got the news that the man
who made America safe for capitalism and the
world safe for democracy passed away with quiet
dignity in Warm Springs. We don’t get to be the
sixties kids and remember where we were when the
President was shot in Dallas and the nation “lost its
innocence” (not really, but we like to let those old
enough to remember it think that’s how it hap-
pened). No, instead, we get to be part of the genera-
tion whose most vivid cultural memories are of the
time when the ex-football-star-turned-rental-car-
pitchman-and-hack-actor went on trial for the mur-
der of his ex-wife and a bystander.

Don’t get me wrong; if the Chinese curse is,
“May you live in interesting times,” I think we can
be pretty sure that our generation is the least ac-

- cursed of the three. The Simpson trial may have

riveted the attention of the nation and the world, but
that hardly qualiﬁes it as interesting.

Don’t lie. I know that most of you were like me,
trying to ignore the whole ugly spectacle, but every
once in a while being fascinated by the sheer grotes-
querie being paraded on the national stage.

More than once I found myself turning on the
news to see the details of a news story I had heard
about elsewhere, only to find wall-to-wall trial
coverage. lt got to be enough. Little headlines
would run maddeningly under Judge lto’s scowl:
“Jerry Garcia found dead” or “Hurricane approaches
Florida coast.” l remember yelling disconsolately at
Marcia Clark’s third (fourth?) hairdo when William
Weld had just announced he «would not run for
president, “Show me the news! Show me the news!”
to no avail.

And now that there actually is news--“O.J.
FOUND NOT GUILTY”—we’re so sick of it that
whatever reaction we might have to the actual
verdict is numbed by boredom and disinterest.

But there really is a signiﬁcance beyond
the circus.

l’ve heard all of the theories by now, and I’d like
to address a few of them:

First, to the young woman in the streets of Los
Angeles on KTLA the day of the verdict: Please
don’t think that just because Simpson has been
acquitted, there is no justice for woman victims of
violence. The look on your face and your obvious
grief indicated that there was something personal in
your reaction. Please don’t make it personal. What-
ever circumstances have affected you are not the
same as the circumstances of this case, and its
outcome doesn’t mean yours can’t be different. This
case didn’t turn on domestic violence.

Next, to the black woman on WSET Lynchburg
who said that she was glad Simpson got off and that
she was not shocked by Mark Fuhrman’s racist
comments: Please be more shocked. Most white
people never even encounter the kind of sick, deep
racism displayed by Mark Fuhrman in his gutless,
boastful confessions to screenwriter Laura Han
McKinney. Most white people———and all decent
people of whatever race—were and are as shocked
as you, and that shook, used constructively, can
bring something good from a bad situation. lt’s

never going to be perfect, but at least give this_

society the benefit of the doubt.

And finally, to the jerk sitting a couple of rows
back from me in Reid Hall, where several journal-
ism classes were watching the verdict on CNN, who
said, “lt’s just because he’s black”: Who the hell are
you? Did you sit in thatjury box for nine months and
watch a trial unfold, with over a hundred witnesses
and mountains of evidence? Do you have some kind
of inside knowledge of what happened in that jury
room? Just who the hell are you?

i don’t claim to have any inside knowledge of
why the case was decided the way it was. Maybe it
was because the jury had found reasonable doubt.
Maybe it was because they bought the defense’s
frame-up theory. Maybe they were just sick of
sitting around all day, day after day, unable to go
about their daily lives in their own homes, and
thought Simpson looked like a nice young man
(well, he does). ln fact, I believe that Simpson

probably murdered Nicole Brown Simpson and
Ron Goldman, and it troubles me to think that our
system has released a murderer back into society.

But I also think that the jury came up with the
correct verdict. lt’s correct not because there was a
staggering revelation of Simpson’s innocence, or
because there was any lack of evidence that he
committed the crime, but simply because the cir-
cumstances of the investigation of the murder cast
substantial enough doubts to acquit, and that is what
the jury did.

Imagine, for a moment, that your Jewish neigh-
bor is on trial for murder. You know he has a bad
temper, but you believe that he is probably innocent,
and are watching ambivalently, not leaning either
way, waiting to see if there is any concrete evidence
that might cause you to abandon your position.

The prosecution brings out a lot of circumstantial
evidence that is ably refuted by the defense. The
time issues become so confused that you look for
something more solid. There is no physical evi-
dence that can betied directly to your neighbor.

Finally, they bring out DNA results that place
your neighbor at the scene. A clean-cut young
ofﬁcer—let’s call him Adolf—recounts the tale of
how he collected the evidence. Prejudiced against
Jews? “Of course not,” he says. “They’re as good as
anybody else.” You begin to have serious doubts
about the possible guilt of your neighbor.

Weeks later, a recorded conversation surfaces
between the clean-cut young officer and a reporter,
in which he describes Jewish people as inferior,
greedy, prone to commit crime. He repeats anti-
Semitic slurs. He recounts how he and his fellow
officers have trumped up evidence, manufactured
evidence, beaten Jewish suspects to obtain confes-
sions, all with the knowledge that they “all knew
what to say” if any of it came to light in order to
protect each other.

What do you think of your neighbor now? How
would you vote? Will a guilty verdict send the
message that it doesn’t matter that a police officer
who had access to material evidence has admitted
manufacturing it in the past, that an officer who
admits to framing Jews in the past now claims to
have gone by the book?

I think it is too much. Not guilty is the only
verdict that makes sense.

This case turned on race not because of Johnny
Cochran, but because of a corrupt system.

 

  

 

1.
D"'t d bl khl
" g P GENERAL
, sai . ia. u a cos you ex .
DREAMI.AND :=.*::.‘?.:::2::i§:iS:.:ﬁ2;:::;::§:2  -. ;‘;“"v::;.:'.‘~°'°;‘:‘:.‘:‘:"‘“° NOTES
_ countless W&L Ford Explorers and “Where in Rockbridge County?”I Auto Towingdoes politely request '
- Rlchard W33VeT Jeep Cherokees. . pressed her. a fee of $50 for the service of towing , ,
Ryan led me to “Beatty Hol- your car. Career Fall‘ Found
I'm proud to say I’m a law-abiding what amounted to ‘ ‘ low,” Peggy “We charge $10 a day for storage,
student who parks his car in the cor- a big clearing in said. ,She eyed also,” she said. For that, you can The Eieventh Annnni Nations] Ahiack, brown and white ghized
rect W&L lots. 1 ve often wondered the forest several Ryan sbigstraw probably get Auto Towing to keep an Environments] ca.-eei confei-enee mat-hiestone pendanntrinn isi-with
. aroun us were . . . . . 8“

, WEE! h3Plg°“5_‘°fr‘h‘:§° bad  milgaoiftoftowni the rusted cannibal hatIit;fPIcnou§|y- gye in mircardduﬁng Thanksgiving and Career Fair will be held Oct. 27 yellow gold back. Contact Carol
WI _ par mg In 80 Ions; W _ WI 0" Y_3gT3V_° _ 9_ " aroun US I68 - at 3 ea - and28atthe Radisson Plaza Hotel at Calkins in the University Center.
awaits them? Where are their cars road leadingto it. ‘zed remains of cars were the_ rusted, Peggy said students are usually Maikcenteiinmexandna,Virginia,
towed to?  they‘ ever get them I realize ‘now that .udgin by their cannibalized re- pretty nice when they come to get The confei-enoe provides paneidis-
back? I decided this definitely re- thatlmay be ]InX- 9] g mains of cars their cars back. She did acknowledge eussions, workshops, networking Ire h  

ﬂ quiged spine sqrt of lllV¢;SlIgatll(‘)l'l. ilng nliyself, but model,  seen a tltiiat, judgingd by that aj fevlv ‘pf theli(n seem bt(obeina‘l‘)baq and ﬁeld u,ips_ The Career Fair en_ ac 81' 1103 on

or ose 0 you rea ers w o are ’vea waysoper- * t eir mo e , moo .” on’t now a ut you, ut hi ' t 1 ho t '1“
new this year, you should know that ated in the face of road In at least 20 hadn’t seen a think I would be pretty darn happy to :,g::?;i'i%':s:n§:,r::e,§p;§f1‘:n'if DR P3"? w°s'h°.f°' fmm Ma”
for three years1’ve been on and off on danger. When years. (FOP you re- road in at least trek out to Beatty Hollow one after- ties, For more information stop by Ba'd‘"'“ C°"°S° Wm be 0" cam“
my Dream Land World Tour. The Ryan and I ap- turning alumni this 20 years. (For noon to fork over $60 to get my car the Career Deveiopinent and Place- P95 Wednesday-N0“ .1-‘° °°“3“"
idea behind the tour is for me to get proached the k d . , you returning back, especially if it involved me ment office, Wm‘ 5_“‘d°'“3 '_°8‘“'d"‘8 ‘°3¢h°"

,4 out of my room and see new things, main building, wee en 9 ‘L 3'0]; re alumni this missingdinnerorsomethinglikethat. ';d:’°‘“'°"| 3“d_"°f“:“"°- 'fh}f°“'

’ meetnew people, andpresentthem to the three old missin a 8 er- weekend, if And if it was raining and cold as an O “ “W P “"5 "‘° “_ 3 W3‘? "'8-
you. You can send me gas money if women with ciga- g you’re missinga extra bonus. Career workshop Please °°m¢ b)’ Falffax 1-“"989

CW2)’, I found It-) between the hours of 12:30 pm.
and 2 p. m. to discuss your particu-
lar needs with Dr. Westhafer. If
you have questions consult Dean

West-Settle at X8746.

you want.
Since I wondered “Where do all
the cars go?” the logical first stop on
. ‘I the Fall 1995 leg of my world tour
» was Auto Towing and Repair, Inc.
Accompanied by Phi Staff Writer
Ryan Beaman (who wore a big straw

rettes resting in
their mouths gave
us the evil eye.
They backed off when we got closer
to reveal a woman with a shockingly
pink shirt.

“Where are we?” I asked the atten-

’48 Mercury, 1
found it.)

“We don’t
just cater to W&L students—we tow
everybody,” Peggy said. I was stand-
ing next to a big blue big rig. Peggy
said that Auto Towing and Repair

I returned from the black hole
with a greater appreciation for the
power wielded by these people who
can have their way with your car
and charge you for it. With that re-
spect, I hope I never cross paths with
them again.

There will be a Career Focus
Workshop on Wednesday, Oct. 11
at 4 p.m. in Room 108 of the Univer-
sity Center. All students trying to
decide on a major or narrow their job
search are invited to attend.

House mothers comment

 

7/ 

 
    

Oct. 6 and Saturday, Oct. 7 at 8:05
p.m. in the Troubadour Theater.

, SLAC Job Fairs
. Film Society ‘
 Liberal Arts and Science ma-
Washington and Lee's Film jors interested in the SLAC job
Society will present Clerks Friday, fairs should submit their resumes

by Oct. 27. Interested students can
get more information by stopping by

There is no charge for admission and the Career Development and Place-
l  the public as well as the W&L com- merit Office.
an g munity are invited.
To theedltor:    c e ‘
y _ , _ , _ _ Flu Shots Study Abroad
Unfortunately, the information contained in your front-page article regarding
the cleaning in the fraternities does not present a balanced view. I am one of the Q . . . .
house mothers involved and my house is not cleaned or maintained as well as it was shoi:::f::itnHe8gh ¥'l.|].::  aresﬁvemnlﬂitudgdgrdlgad gas;
under the previous contractor. Ihave been patient because I know that two and ahalf g ' ' ' 4 P nlicoin ‘E; Univetéity um
hours is not long enough to clean a fraternity house, especially on Thursday and . ' ' . _
\/. Monday mornings. However, when I read that the cleaning was on a par with last   lobby’ 3 represenumve mm B“

   
     
   

ver College will discuss extensive
study abroad opportunities, espe-
cially for the United Kingdom.
Thursday,Oct. I2 at3:30 p.m. in the

year, I had to respond. First, although many promises have been made, as of today
the woman who cleans my house is also cleaning two others and has been doing so
since the beginning of the school year. This problem has not been corrected.

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by ﬁction writer

I feel that you should have spoken to a representative group of house mothers and [ex Wiiiiford, authorofMcCau[gy '3 . . _
fraternity occupants. A sophomore who did not live in the house last year is not Thumb, Monday, Oct. 16 at 4 p.m.; 32$/::;%ﬁ‘een|‘:;::::,y(;PglprnscupE an"
‘ really able to compare. The one house mother you quoted only said that the proposed poet Brendan Galvin, author of Great '

and Asian Studies will discuss op-
portunities. Friday, Oct. 13 at 3:15
p.m. in University Center I 17 a rep-
resentative from Danish lntema-
tional Studies will discuss English-

plans of B&G should remedy the problem. Was she not asked about the current state
of affairs? Why not talk to one of the house mothers who has been in the same house
for several years and has the background to really compare the service this year with
the previous years?

Blue and Saints in Their 0x-hide
Boats, Thursday, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m.,
and novelist and poet Lynne Sharon
Schwartz, author of Rough Strife

Welcome Back Students

       
      
   

 

‘ 

   

4 23 N. Main St. (703)463-5988 and TheFati ueAm'si, Wednesday, -
 Lexington. vA 24450 a :22::.::.:=:.5.*:.':‘.;.':.:',:=::::.':,%:.:.::?' 5?="vg5'ri«‘?5s°t‘n‘3=‘5s“-'"“"C°”°""“‘°"
V” E'"““'  

‘ \ . il < 4 i . . v 4 I . , a . . /

BIG WEEKENDS. SPRING BREAK ’96 . SELL ‘ ’ ’
GRADUAT10N_,, TRIPS, EARN CASH &_ Go
,, ieemanouseronheprzceofa :.*.‘.€'.?::.'.:':;’.:.';:.‘.T:“.:,°.‘.§.°.::.'..°°.*.;s. NIGHT OWL MUSlC C0.
’ '"°‘e"°°'"~’ iB‘?.”'§f.§.".i‘.’.ii=‘Z..f2.‘I.‘2‘°c‘%i,°§'é§2i’ c
463-5350 703 978-2416 '
°'( ) “H ““°°*““‘“““‘9 25 s. Jefferson 464-4050
Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.
‘ COC0.0.00CCOCOCOOOOOOCOOOOCOOOCOCOCOCC
 -W,4z7z5z&p0,4g  $1 Off with this coupon
3 sﬁedatcyotg 6'49 7£«,’a¢z¢4e¢ 3
A I ‘?eomam mid 5444“ : **"'FREE TRIPS & CASH!!**"' A
: : Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH
: o with America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!
4 o I 9 S,   2 Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-
 463 2742 : DENT TRAVEL‘ 95-BREAK!

ALVIN-DENNIS

102 W WASHINGTON ST.
463-5353

WELCOME W&L ALUMNI

- Woolrich
- Duckhead
- Ray-Bans
- Red Wing
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos
- Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
.1 - W&L Belts, ’l‘ies, Dog Collars

   

:. . . . . . ... . us... ...,.. :‘ _ Embassy Boxers
, IE:  3kiu!'hm ytiv E . o
‘  Alumni Special
53 come once a  Suits and Sportcoats
‘  ,,,eek_  20% Off

4 Open This Sunday at 10:00 a.m.

STUDENT CHARGE

VISA MASTERCARD

 

 

Valley 

mnowane SYORES "

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

ADVERTSEMEN TS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

17 S. Main St.
463-9730

Florist to The Homestead

WASHINGTON AND LEE
  « SELECTIVE LIBERAL ARTS
CONSORTIUM JOB FAIRS

IISlTER.'\/IEVVS IN: Atlanta, Chicago, DC,
Nezo York, Philadelphia, San Francisco

Hu.man Renourceslpersonnel ’ Museums
Teachin Coaching Scientific Writ-ing
Advertis. ng Banking
Consulting Sy:-menus

$ociuI Service. Agencies Insurance
P'hn21:nacentica'l Research Sales

Cable News Network .Relail

Publishing Wildentesq Programs
Editing Envitonxnental Groupq
Government Agencies: State Dept, EPA, Peace Corps

DON'T IVIISS THE BIGGEST AND BEST JOB.
INTERVIEVVING EVENT FOR LIBERAL
ARTS A'ND SCIENCE l\/IA}ORS!!

DEADLINE TO SUBIVIIIT
tI_{ESU1\/IES

Ten East Nelson Street Lexington 463-9841

Hours: Mon-Sat 10-5:30

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun
and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers,

Parties, and Morel Organize a small group and earn a
FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

Cotnputcrs
. Software
sygrepns Salas & Service

HI Egan <'¢‘>‘¢:\-pacer Sqs::.cus

 
 

‘OI OK!

 

é 2';-3t<;)t1.evv’are-. 6:: porcelain
Ilnique baskets

.A.rn.i.-ah Cllliltti, hats, ap.rons
I~Iarx<:l..sacree.rx.eci greeting cards
Berea Cﬁcxllege Cra fts
Regional jkrtists

“—"E'.%*"'a.-’

2:2 'V\/"rt.-.=t VVasI1i1¢gt<)m
Z.-exingtc:r1 , X/irgirx fa
Plzorze (7'¢Z9..‘3) 46-4—.862£5
Adorzda}/~Sat14 rciay 10-5

§Harbs 6
§A Bistro

   

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: 8 am - 3 pm - Monday :
:8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
u 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday :
: 9 am - 3 pm - Sunday :
3 :
I
: Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad E
: All you can eat $4.99 u
I
' I
: Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID :
I :
: Friday — Seafood Nite - :
: Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout I
: Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib, :
. 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95 :
I I

 
 
   

 
 
 

: 19 . ashin ton St.', Lexington, VA 24450

The Ring-tum
Phi:
An important part
of the daily diet.
Contains half as
much as fat as other
campus publications.

LEXINGTON SWEATSHIRT

 

EXCLUSIVE DESIGN
NAVY AND BLACK
ASSORTED SIZES
MOCK OR CREW

THE STONEWALL JACKSON HOUSE
MUSEUM snop - GARDEN - HISTORIC HOUSE - TOURS
3 EAST WASHINGTON sr. - LEXINGTON, VA - 463-2552

Natural cotton. Natural linen.
Naturally Caravans.

Caravans

117 West Nelson Street 04643500
Open daily 10am-6pm Oszmdays 1 lam - 3pm

Clhi (Ohrnega congratulates its 

Homeoming Court nominees:

Saralh Brornlhaclher
Justine LaMont
Rohin King

 

OCTOBER 27, 1995

BEGINNING OCT. 6
SUNDAYS 8 T0 4

LEXINIJTIIN

(fl;//(;(' .(/I)(I(M'//}(/y (ll:

 

9 W. Washington St. - 464-6586

  
 
    
    
     

ﬂ

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

 

H at l_ I S 1'GG|'_B I
5" Anniversary Sawngs!

ritlﬁjsll

  

Harris Teeter
ple
urce

 

SPORTS

PAGE 7_

ATHLETES
OF THE WEEK

 

v Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Cross Country

The Schaeffer train just keeps on rolling along.

For the fourth straight time, she won a race, but
this time, it meant a little extra.

At the Greensboro Invitational on Saturday,
Schaeffer was given a tough assignment, as she was
lumped in with 24 of the top Division I runners in
the area. It made no difference to the senior, as she

 

Brooks Fischer
Football

If Saturday’s game was any indication, Fischer
is rapidly becoming a top-notch quarterback.

The Generals fell at Randolph-Macon, 24-21,
but Fischer kept W&L in the game until the bitter
end with an unbelievable passing performance.

The junior connected on 33 of 51 passes to
smash the 300-yard barrier with 362. All of those

Harris Teeter Canned 4 Pk, Haffis Teeter . ﬁnished seven seconds ahead of the second place statistics were second-best in W&L history. On
 runner from Ohio University in a time of 17:49. top of that, Fischer tossed three touchdown passes.
157_5 Schaefferwillbe challenged againintwo weeks, Adding up his 32 yards rushing, Fischer ﬁn-

ished with an incredible 394 total yards. He now

when she competes in the elite Paul Short Invita-
has thrown for 2,730 yards in his career.

tional at Lehigh University.

Tissue _s.,. n.
Premier Selection

  White
   Po ta toe

-‘E

          
   

 ‘Q

Green Beansfg 
cOl'n__15.é5 oz.

 

  
  

Pondero 

nci)  tea

 
  
        

  

advertising Specialties
Promo-‘tonal products - ' ‘

Screen Printed Tertilés

 

Q-.'\:v-1.‘ .‘.I

  -plaquies 

      
     
 
  
 

 

",- H‘\ l  " '1‘-SIIIIFI-.' _ .\ ‘
1   ll 2s:7.‘.':;::r:.< “
". . . \ \‘x-/‘i ' 5' J

”--1.’...-re“ 

 custom engrervinii it

 
 

lrltl.'mi‘liiT'&StTllEE.\‘PRl5l5lioi

 
 
  
   
 

  

 

 

 

lief; l_§‘l‘r2Sa{:li _ltf_:‘il.'4'.'§h."i.'1~.'t.
.~  . - . o .. ._ , 1  }’lIEonr.‘5-ill-3-18-6753, rt. 377.5753‘, §»‘.,‘,,"“."‘-{.E,?"f~§"".'=? 1“-‘“
, Premier Selection  Premier Selection 129 ' FM-‘*1-37745418 ‘ W" " '5’ ' ""3
6‘ carrOts___2]b_bag  lllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
 Harris Teeter // \ \ .
_  “#3 Don’t Let 5
A  .  a m Your Student
3”‘? , G0 Hungry _
‘I "' Harbs’ Point Card ;
‘j:—. The $100 Meal Ticket 1
Redeemable for i.
1 2 I. . .
* / ga Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner -

For only $90.00

Stock Up And Save Soft Drink Feature

  
    

 
   
  

   
  
  
      
  
   

     
           

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
‘Ru

4 ‘_,,«@%,t.» Nutritious Mu ms & Egg Specialties t
 Fresh alads & Soups g

. \_, ‘ H Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees’ ;

>  g.   Candlelight Diners 

‘V . /1!!! ® Give Your Student 
'/FRUIT CHE i ’  . 1.

' ’ “Y COOKIES‘ - a Homecooked Meal With Our 

,_ V Point Card 3%
 ' Harbs’ 

‘ PEACHQRICOT  19 W. ashington St., Lexington, A 24450 
 /téssaoczl  IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII :

Harris Teeter Fat Free P ' O D - 2

‘ Fruit Chewy ens’ ’ - '9‘ 
 Cookies Peps’ 

    

i 129

Re . Or Low Fat Harris Teeter Harris Teeter

* gheggse __12 oz. By gleam __s 39?

Harris Teeter
2’99¢

En lish Harris Teeter

* uffins__s ct. Bleach__12s.z. 

Prices Effective Through Oct. 10, 1995

4 Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, October 4 Through October 10, 1995 in Our _ _
‘ Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Last Week:

VOLLEYBALL - Lost. to Gettysburg in semiﬁnals of Gettysburg Classic,

W, 15-10, 15-5, 17-15, vs. Lynchburg
MSoocnn- L, 2-1, vs. E. Me. onite; l..,2—1, vs. Hnmpden-Sydney ’
WSoocxn- L, 4-1, at Randolph-Macon; W, 9-0, vs. Sweet Briar
Mcnoss Courrrmr - Finished second at Greensboro Invitational

WCnoss Courrrmr - Finished fifth at Gree ‘

u Invitational

WATSII Pouo- L, 11-6, vs. Villanova; L, 12-9, vs. Princeton;
L,17-15, vs. Georgewaahington in W&L EWPAToum.

PAGE 8

S

L @112 ‘ﬁling-mm ‘iﬂhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

A p This Week:

Vou.InMu.- Today at Emory& Henry, 6:30 PM; Sat. at
Goucher Tutu ament; Wed. vs. Sweet Briar, 6:30 PM

Foo'rnAu.-
Msoccuh

Sat. vs. Davidson, 2:00 PM
Sat. vs. Roanoke, 11:00 AM;

Wed. at Brldgewataer, 4:00 PM

Wsoccsn-

Sat. vs. Virginia Wesleyan, 3:00 PM

Thurs. at Roanoke, 4.00 PM

M'l‘:Nms-
W'I‘s-.NNra-

Sat.-Sun. in W&L Fall Classic, 9:00AM ~
Fri. vs. Redford, 3:00 PM

OCTOBER 6, 1995

' . ,p,erfectI;.»;i=r.iot?’= ;¢Y*e'n
E §j1\/lattdux, although

  
  

 ‘ﬂap ..
f.fIastin.theAL
* “Mé’y»  

   

v.«bYM3§Ii0€I3 “P881133;
_[ endjL;_ti's.~SoJ. to fi
knock:off_the_ Ange 
I , Of course,fthere,’s"that~'
small matt’¢t.9f.the;el¢.Vea

 

back in mid-August._.. _

Generals drop nailbiter at Randolph-Macon

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

     
  
   
      
    

game lead Calif0In53~'h5£l 

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball squad has made little im-
provement with its record after
last year’s 0-3 start to the season.

The Generals, 0-2-1 after
three games, took a hard hit on
Saturday with a 24-21 loss to
Randolph-Macon.

With the score at 17-14 in the
fourth quarter and W&L poised
to tie the game on a 32-yard
Drew Thomas ﬁeld goal, disas-
ter struck. Randolph-Macon
blocked the ﬁeld goal, and to
pour salt in the wound, returned
the ball 72 yards for the eventual
winning touchdown.

W&L made the game close
late when junior quarterback
Brooks Fischer connected to
freshman Chas Chastain for a
twelve-yard touchdown to cut
the lead to three, but the ten-
point margin proved too much as
the Generals fell, 24-21.

The Generals had taken a 14-
10 lead in the third quarter, after
trailing 10-0 at halftime.

Senior James Urban caught
the ﬁrst of two Brooks Fischer
touchdown passes to bring W&L
to within 10-7, and a 16-yard
grab by Chastain gave the Gen-
erals the short-lived lead.

The highlight of the game

from the W&L side was the per-
formance of quarterback Fischer.
Fischer threw for 362 yards on
33 completions in 51 attempts.
James Urban was the main target
for Fischer with nine catches for
87 yards. Chastain ﬁnished with
three catches for 83 yards, and
Nick Hodge pulled down eight
balls for 78 yards.

The 362-yard performance
was the second highest single-
game total ever amassed by a
W&L quarterback. Fischer also
rode the game into fourth place
on the all-time touchdown list
with 21, and is now ﬁfth on the
all time yardage list with 2,730.

Despite the winless record,
the Generals are a much improved
team from last year. In their first
three games last season, the Gen-
erals were outscored 59-2, and
had only amassed 11 points
through the ﬁrst four, despite
winning against Davidson 9-3.

This year, however, is alto-
gether different. W&L is aver-
aging 356 yards of offense per
contest. By contrast, the team
only had 357 yards total through
the first three games of last year.

The Generals will be taking
on Davidson this weekend for
Homecoming. Just like last year,
they will be looking to ﬁnd their
winning ways again in this game.
The near future looks bright as
Davidson enters the game at 1-3,
and lost to W&L last season.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The Generals tied Centre in their last home game. W&L will try once again to pick up their first
victory of the year in this weekend's Homecoming game with Davidson, a team they beat in 1994.

Men endure rough week with  
two conference home defeats

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team has
recently run into a two-game
slump after surging into the sea-
son with four straight victories.
The Generals dropped games to
Eastern Mennonite and
Hampden-Sydney this past week.

EMU came out fast against
W&L, and the Generals could
not recover.

After Eastern Mennonite tal-
lied two goals in the first twenty-
ﬁve minutes, the Generals did
manage to regain some ground.
Freshman Sam Chase found the
back of the net after assists from
Colin Connolly and Jeb Wofford.

Unfortunately, Chase scored
with a mere twenty-ﬁve seconds
left in the game, and the Gener-
als would not get another offen-
sive chance. The whistle blew
with EMU victorious, 2-1.

W&L fell to Hampden-
Sydney at home this Tuesday, 2-
1. The Tigers struck first with a
goal in the sixteenth minute, then
stretched their lead when a
twenty-yard shot sailed in over
goalkeeper E.J. Murphy’s head.

W&L tried to stage a come-
back in the seventy-ninth minute
when Jeb Wofford drilled home

a direct kick to cut the deficit to
2-1, but the Tigers clamped down
on defense and thwarted the Gen-
erals’ scoring opportunities.
Gordon Meeker had a good

W

Volleyball:

The Generals had an up-
and-down weekend in
Gettysburg, PA.

W&L dropped three
matches, yet still managed to
advance to the semiﬁnals of
the Gettysburg Classic by win-
ning four of its matches, in-
cluding a triumph over league
rival Eastern Mennonite for
the first time.

Sophomore Hilary Martin
collected 68 kills during the
Gettysburg Classic.

The Generals returned
home on a winning note by
stomping Lynchburg, 15-10,
15-5, 17-15, on Tuesday.
Martin was once again nearly
unstoppable, as she totalled
seventeen kills, four blocks,
and seven digs.

Sophomore Ali Beard, ﬁll-
ing in for the injured Cheryl
Taurassi, put up Taurassi-like
numbers withacareer-high40
assists, for the Generals, 13-4
overall, 3-1 in the ODAC.

Water Polo:

The water polo team, try-
ing to defend its home pool,
had a tough time this weekend
in the Eastern Water Polo As-

sociation tournament at W&L.

The Generals went down to
defeat in all three of their con-
tests, falling 11-6 to Villanova,
12-9 to Princeton, and 17-15 to
George Washington.

The loss in the ﬁnal game
against GW stung the most.

' W&L led 10-8 heading into the

last period, and still was clinging
to a two-point lead when the
Colonials’ desperation two-
pointer found the net as time ex-
pired. GW went on to prevail in
overtime, handing the Generals a
bitter loss which dropped their
record to 7-4 on the season.

Women’s Tennis:

The Generals were back in
form at the Rolex Southeastern
Regional at Mary Washington,
assophomore NataliaGarciatook
home the singles crown in the
64-player tournament.

Along the way, Garcia beat
fellow sophomores Berry
Blankinship and Ericka Shapard,
who had both advanced to the
semiﬁnal round. Garcia, along
with Julie Ayers, also stormed
into the doubles ﬁnal.

Garcia’s singles title will cam
her a spot in the ITA/ Rolex Na-
tional Small College Champion-

 

 

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The W&L men’s soccer squad plunged back to earth this week, after losing
two tight ODAC games with Eastern Mennonite and Hampden-Sydney.

chance to score the equalizer,
but he was stopped inside of the
ﬁnal minute.

These two setbacks drop the
Generals to 2-3 in ODAC play,

and 5-3 overall.

W&L will try to improve their
conference standing when they
take on Roanoke at Liberty Hall
ﬁeld this Saturday.

ships in Boca Raton, Florida, on
October 19-22.

Men’s Cross Country:

The Generals travelled to
Greensboro, NC, last weekend,
and walked away with an im-
pressive second-place showing
at the Greensboro Invitational.

Jason Callen was the first
General to cross the line, as he
did so in ﬁfth place in 26:47.
Teammate Brad Paye was on
Callen’s heels, as he ﬁnished two
seconds behind in sixth place.
Will Olson, Taylor Shultz, and
Andy May also scored for the
Generals, who have a week off
before their next race at the State
Division II-III Championships.

Women’s Cross Country:
Josephine Schaeffer was
grouped in with the talented Di-
vision I runners at the Greens-
boro Invitational. So what?
The senior was again up to
the challenge, as she knocked off
the other 24 runners in her group
to ﬁnish first with a time of17:49.
The victory was the fourth con-
secutive for Schaeffer in 1995.
Although the rest of the team
was without their ace runner, the
Generals still held their own at

W

the Invitational, placing ﬁfth
out of fourteen entries. Fresh-
man Natasha Dorofeeva gar-
nered top honors for W&L
with her twelfth-place overall
ﬁnish. Carson Flowers, Nat
Messmore, Ashley Smith, and
Katye Jenkins all placed for
the Generals.

Women’s Soccer:

There were mixed results
for the Generals this week, as
they split two games. W&L
lost at second-ranked
Randolph- Macon, 4-1 , on Sat-
urday,but came back Wednes-
day to torch Sweet Briar, 8-0,

Nicole Johnson scored on
assists from Michelle Bauman
and Katie Jenkins forthe Gen- #
erals’ only goal. '

However, Sweet Briar was
no match for W&L on
Wednesday at the Liberty Hall
Fields. Bauman led the way
with three goals and one as-
sist. Sophomore Erica
Reineke, playing in her third
game after recovering from
surgery, tallied two goals. -
Freshman Karin Treese netted
two goals, and had two assists
for W&L, who climbed to 6-2
overall, 4-0 in, the ODAC. . J

v

F

Footbaﬂ

K

Men’s Soccer
Women’s Soccer
Volleyball

Water Polo

5-3

6-2
13-4

7-4
0-2-1

Photo by The Washington Post

Simpson awaits verdict

 

F

General Records]

:1

. n
. u
ﬁn
. v..m
€..E
B
.w,m
. ...n
«of».
0....
h.»
9.?

By Robin Seaton
Phi Staff Writer

honest tune with a linger-
“A.

ing lead” makes its way to Lexington
Friday as Widespread Panic head-
lines Washington and Lee’s 1995
Homecoming concert. Joan Osbourne
will open for the Athens—based band.
Tickets are available through Friday
in front of the Co-op, at a cost of $8 in
advance and $10 at the door for stu-
dents. Tickets for those outside the
W&L community must be purchased
in advance for $15 each. Doors at the
SAB Pavilion will open at 8:30 p.m.
Friday night. A beer garden will be
available for students with proper l.D.

Widespread Panic has been tour-
ing the U.S. for eight years, and they
continue to draw more fans with their
unique, compelling sound. The Bos-
ton Globe compares the band to the
Allman Brothers, the Grateful Dead,
and Blues Traveler, with their
“muddy—river feel” and “a southern
flavor,” a brew of “R&B, funk, and
country...energy and Latin-tinged
grooves.”

Lead singer and guitarist John
Bell believes he has been inﬂuenced
by every song he has ever heard but
claims “the boys in the band” have
affected him most." He calls Wide-
spread Panic “a band in the truest

The Ping

sense,” regardless of the labels and
comparisons others place on their
music. Known for their internalized
jamming, Widespread presents a
unique performance every time.

The band has toured extensively
all over the nation to promote each of
their four albums. Their latest Capri-
corn release, entitled Ain ’t Life Grand,
has proven to be even more success-
ful than previous albums such as Space
Wrangler, Everyday, and the self-
titled Widespread Panic.

The band also added a cover of
Van Morrison’s “And It Stoned Me”
to the recently released Hempilation
benefit CD, which also included per-
formances by Blues Traveler, the
Black Crowes, Drivin’ n’ Cryin’,
Government Mule, and others. Pro-
ceeds will benefit NORML, the Na-
tional Organization for the Reform of
Marijuana Laws.

Vic Chestnutt collaborated with
most of the Widespread members to
release Nine High A Pallet. The group
called itself “brute,” and recorded the
album in only two days. Most of the
songs were penned by Chestnutt, al-
though the group covered Hoyt
Axton’s “Snowblind Friend.” The
album hit stores in mid-September,
and tentative plans are being discussed
for future live performances.

After spring concerts with

Morn~e(:-o:ni‘irg "Q35

Widespread Panic

Jackopierce, From Good Homes,
Soulhat, God Street Wine, and oth-
ers, Widespread Panic spent the sum-
mer in the Midwest and Rockies. This
fall they finally return to the familiar
venues of the southeast, joined in

The Rina-tum P121 October 6 1995

/‘>

‘-31/A7z’l"tm1’lli7 [1 ll 

concert by Joan Osbourne, War, and
Colonel Bruce Hampton and the Fiji
Mariners. After Halloween, the band
will take time off and work on a
possible live album, with a release
date thus far unknown.

-tum Phi

would like to thank
Hillorg Coombs
for 0 superb job on the supplement.
We couldn‘t have done it without goul

The Rina-tum Phi Elctnhar 6 1995

By Scott Bookwalter
Phi Sports Editor

Another year, same story.

Last year, heading into the Davidson
game, the Washington and Lee foot-

ball team had not yet won a game,

after scoring an infamous two points
in their first three contests. This year,
the Generals are still searching for
their first win in the fourth game of
the season, after losing this past Sat-
urday at Randolph-Macon, 24-21, to
drop to 0-2-1 in 1995.

In 1994, W&L headed to
Davidson reeling at 0-3, but the Gen-
erals got back on track by holding off
the Wildcats, 9-3. The contest was
decided by a two-yard plunge by run-
ning back Seth McKinley midway
through the third quarter, and the
Generals’ defense halted Davidson
the rest of the way. Safety Stuart
Hogue had a huge day with nine tack-
les and two interceptions, one com-

ing at the W&L 27 on the Wildcats’
last-gap drive.

The victory over Davidson
kicked off a remarkable late-season

resurgence, as the Generals won five
of their final six contests to finish at 5-
4.

The Generals will hope for a
similar turnaround to start this Satur-
day, when the Wildcats invade Lex-
ington for the W&L Homecoming
Game. Last year, the Generals
dropped a lackluster 19-0 effort on
Homecoming to Randolph-Macon.

W&L head coach Frank Miriello
will be coaching in his first Home-
coming game as the Generals’ head
coach, but he claims his emotional
level will be the same as in any other
contest.

“All games are the same for me
- they’re all big games,” he men-
tioned.

Miriello added that the players
have never put a particular emphasis
on Homecoming games, although
they always like to win them.

Homecoming and Parents’
Weekend are “big emotional lift week-
ends for the players,” said Miriello.
“They play a bit harder to beat them.”

At this moment, though, Miriello
and the Generals are more concerned
about righting their ship before it be-

comes too late in the season. The
narrow loss last week to Randolph-
Macon did not help their situation too
much.

Miriello said that he had hoped
to win at least one of the first couple
games. Now, the Generals will “try
like the dickens” to win the next
couple.

Davidson is coming off a 31-28
loss to Guilford on Saturday. The
Wildcats are classified as NCAA Di-
vision I-AA, although most of their
opponents are Division 111 schools.
The Wildcats finished with a 3-7 log
in 1994. ‘

Although the Wildcats are not a
member of the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference, Davidson and W&L
are similar liberal arts colleges who
have created a rivalry both’ on the
field and in the classroom. In the
1995 U.S. News and World Report
rankings of the nation’s best liberal
arts schools, W&L rated 15th, while
Davidson plunged to 21st after being
ranked 8th in 1994.

On the gridiron, the Generals
also hold an edge, leading the all-time
series, 16-10-1.

Above: Robert Hull had 16 tackles in the '94
Homecoming game against Randolph-Macon.
Below: The Generals lost 19-0 to the Yellow

Jackets in last year's contest.

Pi Beta Phi
Julie E. Ayers
W&L ‘96
Psychology
Escort: Michael A. Witsil ‘95
“I have a love for W&L
and involvement on campus and
in the community.”

Kappa Alpha Theta
Ashley Bell
W&L ‘96 '
Studio Art/ Print Journalism
Escort: Rusty Bishop ‘94

“I have tried to find a good
balance between education and
extracurricularactivitiesduring
my time at W&L.”

Phi Kappa Sigma
Caroline Connolly
W&L ‘96
Business Administration
Escort: Lee Counselman ‘96

“I feel honored to be a
part ofthe W&L tradition, and I
would like to think that l’ve
given back to the university at
least a part of what it has given
to me over the past four years.”

Lambda Chi Alpha
Maria M. Daly
W&L ‘98
Mass Communications/
Russian Studies
Escort: Steven Frame ‘97

LI l~£..m~et:~I;>.|T{iI*g 

Kappa Alpha
Lauren Gutherie
W&L ‘97
Economics
Escort: David Fosgate ‘96
“I’m really friendly and
outgoing, and I liketo be around
people. My sense of school spirit
is important because a home-
comingqueen should take pride
in the school she represens.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Emily Hazlett
W&L ‘96
Psychology
Escort: Tory Noto ‘96
‘‘I would make a good
homecomingrepresentativebe-
cause I’m involved in many
campus and community activi-
ties. But most importantly, Ilove
W&L.”

Chi Psi
Justine LaMont
W&L ‘96
' Art History/Journalism
Escort: Rick Hill ‘96
“This is my last year at
W&L. l’ve grown to love it,
and I would be honored to rep-
resent it.”

Phi Delta Theta
Kerry Martin
Hollins College ‘96
Psychology
Escort: Ransom James ‘96
“Be yourself. To have the

Alpha Phi Omega
Deborah Anne Munson
W&L ‘96
Economics/ Politics
Escort: Norman Lee ‘98

“W&L is very dear to my
heart, and I strive to uphold its
ideals of integrity, leadership,
and friendship.”

“I think I’m a well-
rounded person. I would repre-
sent a balance of academics and
social activities.”

ability to project a sense of ex-
cellence and all she represents:
academics, leadership, integrity
and grace.”

Phi Gamma Delta
Heather Lipke
W&L ‘97
Spanish
Escort: Greg Anthou ‘96

Sigma Nu
Robin King
W&L ‘96
East Asian Studies/Economics
Escort: Nicholas C. Polizzi
‘96

“The ability tosee through
social stereotypes and to find
the inner beauty in everyone.”

Sigma Chi
Julie Ann Olejniczak
W&L ‘96
« Neuroscience] Pre-Med
Escort: Ben Skaggs ‘96

Phi Kappa Psi
Jennie Peil
W&L ‘97
French/Sociology
Escort: Ben Swinburne ‘97
“I love the people here
and the school. l’m dedicated
and hardworking and a happy
person.”

Beta Theta Pi
Susie Prevost
W&L ‘97
Accounting/ Business
Administration
Escort: Jay Johnson ‘97

Kappa Sigma
Courtney Tucker
W&L ‘96
Politics
Escort: Will Townes ‘96
“My life is the Hill.”

Minority Student
Association
Nejma Petit
W&L ‘98
Evironmental Science
Escort John Branam ‘96
“This school means a lot
to me, and I would be proud to
represent Washington and Lee
as its queen.”

Ellen Marie
W&L ‘9
English V _ ,

Escort: Chris Blyt H 7.
‘‘I’m very involved in the W&L
community, playing sports and
participating in club and com-
munity services, and I would be
honored to represent the school
as homecoming queen.”

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Lynne Kemp Waterman
Hollins College
Communications
Escort: Wen Hutchinson ‘96

“A homecoming queen
should be an enthusiastic per-
son who is proud to represent
her school and the fraternity and
organization that nominated.”

International Club
Rachel Wright
W&L ‘97
Business Administration
Escort: Nick Waddy ‘96
“l think I would make a
good homecoming queen be-
cause I represent some of the
more diverse interests in the
university.

Not Pictured

S.B.A.
Alison Pilgrim
W&L ‘96L
3rd year law student
Escort: Booth Goodwin
Chi Omega
Sarah Brombacher
W&L ‘96
East Asian Studies/ Econom-
ics
Escort: Andrew Wolff ‘95
“l have an appreciation
for the people and the tradition
of W&L which have encour-
aged involvement in campus life
and in the community, but more
importantly, I have the desire

one year to skydive onto Wil-
son Field.”
during halftime.”
Pi Kappa Phi
Eileen R. MacMurtrie
Sweetbrier College
Art History
Escort: Ryan Read
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Betsy Blunt
W&L ‘97
Business Management] East
Asian Studies
Escort: Lin Fitzenhagen ‘97

“Love and loyalty for
W&L and respect for honor and
tradition.”

What's for dinner‘?

By Robin Seaton
Phi Staff Writer

0 So your Homecoming plans are
set. Widespread Panic and the ac-

companying parties, tailgating, cock-
tails, and a band party or two. In the
midst of this revelry you’ll need to
take time to eat.

But one a weekend like Home-
coming, Pop Tarts and bean dip just
won’t do. So what and where will you
eat? We have the answers to your
culinary quandry.

*Il Palazzo (Main Street):
Lexington’s most elegant option for
Italian dining. The food is authentic
and moderately priced. Options in-
clude pasta, seafood, poultry, meat,
sandwiches, pizza and calzone. Try
the pizza bianca as an appetizer. Ser-
vice is freindly and prompt.

*Willson Walker(Main Street):
Continental cuisine for every palette.
Well known for fine food with style.
Prices are moderate to high, but well
worth it. Café Willson is a must with
dessert.

* Café Michel (Clifton Forge):
The drive to Clifton Forge is well
worth the meal at Café Willson. The
atmosphere is romantic and relaxed.
The menu includes several steak op-
tions, as well as other entreés. The
chicken alfredo is excellent. Prices
are moderate; service is great.

* Harbs (Washington Street):
Conviently located in Downtown Lex,
the bistro is well known for its cre-
ative ﬂair. Additional dining space is
available on the beautiful back patio.
Prices are very affordable. Don’t go
in a hurry; plan on a relaxed meal.

* G Willaker’s (Route 7, Lex-
ington, in Best Western): The food is
fun and the prices are reasonable.
Service is excellent. Ask for a table in
Steve’s section.

* The Inn at Union Run (Route
674, Lexington): This full service bed
and breakfast also has a fantastic din-
ing room open to the public. The Inn
at Union Run is considered by many
to be the best food in the Valley. The
food is gourmet and excellently pre-
pared. Prices are high but worth it.
Service is top notch.

* Kenny Rogers’ Roasters (At
the Valley View Mall, Roanoke):
Order your favorite country-style side
dishes along with wood-roasted
chicken or turkey. Kenny’s music
completes the ambiance. Service is
fast—food but tastes like grandma’s.
Dont’ forget your souvenier cup.
Prices are low.

* Berky’s Restaurant at Lee-hi
Truckstop (Route 11, Lexington): If
dinner isn’t your style, have break-
fast. It’s available 24 hours a day.
(Try the He-man Special or the Quick-
n-Easy). Dinner and sandwiches are

ll-om-eoeming

-:95

also served. Berky’s is the ideal op-
tion for that laidback Homecoming
dinner. Prices are affordable.

* Home Sweet Home: Yours,
that is. How better to romance your

 

date than with a candlelight dinner
prepared by your own loving hands?
If that’s not your style, invite a group
to cook together. Prices and service
vary by location.

Homecoming Bands ‘Q5

Compiled by Jeff Mitchell

lambda CH Abha-My lJncIe’s Old Anny Buddies
Beta Theta Di-Uncle Mingo
(held ioihtly with Dhi Delta lheta)
CH Dsi-Duddlecluck
Kappa Abha-Impulse Dicle

Kappa Sigma-Doxie’s Kitchen
Dti Delta Iheta-Uncle Mingo

(held iointly with Beta lheta Di)

Dhl Gamma Delta-A DJ. Darty
Dhl Kelapa Dsi-Ihe Arnies
Dhi Kappa Sigma-limicl Dleasure
DI Kappa Abha-Six Million Dollar Band

Di Kaapa Dhi-The Sick Dogs

Slslna Abha Evslon-Blue Miracle

Sigma Chi-liot Karl and Catfish Jenkins
Sigma N1-Divine Thing
Sigma DH Epslon-llhe Mike Latham Band

Homecoming to include WWII reunion

From Phi Staff Reports

Washington and Lee Univer-

sity’s Homecoming activities on Oc-
tober 5-7 will revolve around the
theme of “A Sentimental Journey,”
which celebrates the 50th anniver-
sary of the end of World War II.

Homecoming at W&L tradition-
ally coincides with the Five-Star Gen-
erals reunion for alumni whose classes
were graduated 50 or more years ago.
This year the university is including
the “War Years” classes — those
classes who collegiate careers were
interrupted by World War II.

The keynote speaker for this
special reunion will be well-known

journalist and alumnus Charles R.
McDowell, Jr. ‘48. He will speak at
the opening reunion assembly on
Thursday, October 5 at 8:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

The university will honor all of
these special alumni at a Friday
evening gala, “A Moonlight Serenade
— A Fancy Dress of the Swing Era,”
with the Glenn Miller Orchestra, at
the Warner Center. Other activities
will include World War II seminars, a
Memorial Service, and a post-game
reception at the Alumni House. In
addition the classes of 1940 and 1935
will celebrate their 55th and 60th re-
unions, respectively. Finally, mem-
bers of the four most recently gradu-

ated classes will also gather for a
“cluster reunion,” a chance for
younger alumni to come together prior
to the five-year spring reunion.

In addition to these special
events, other activities will include
the Homecoming parade on Satur-
day, October 7 at 11:30 a.m., the
football game against Davidson at 2
p.m. on Wilson Field, alumni recep-
tions, concerts, and lectures. Friday’s
activities will include the annual John
Randolph ‘Tucker Lecture in Lewis
Hall at 12:10 p.m. Carol M. Rose,
Gordon Bradford Johnston Professor
of Law and Organization at Yale Law
School, will be the scheduled speaker.
At 4:15 p.m. there will be a dress

parade at the Virginia Military Insti-
tute parade grounds with the W&L
alumni as the reviewing team. A
reception for alumni will be held at
6:30 p.m. in the Alumni House. A
concert with Widespread Panic will
be held in the Student Activities Pa-
vilion at 8 p.m.

Activities continue on Saturday
with the 11:30 a.m. parade in down-
town Lexington. An alumni luncheon
on the Front Lawn will be held at 12
noon. At 2 p.m. the football team will
go against Davidson, with the Free
Falling Sky Dive Team at half-time
and the crowning of the Homecom-
ing queen. A post-game reception
will be held at the Alumni House.

The Rina-tum Phi number 6

1995

By Cindie Young
Phi Features Editor

I I
hinking of them I know the
price we have paid for what we glibly
call our blessings,” wrote President
Francis P. Gaines in 1946; the me of
his thoughts were all at one time stu-
dents of W&L, students who in the
course of World War II lost their lives
wearing the uniform of their country.
Fifty years later, the memory of these
men is still alive on campus, and this
weekend features a host of events in
honor of them and their classmates.
Running from Thursday
afternoon’s registration to Saturday’s
football game, and with a schedule of
events including carriage tours, his-
tory seminars, speeches and a ban-
quet, Homecoming Weekend 1995
promises to entertain W&L alums in

grand style.
Rob Mish, Associate Director

of Alumni Programs, calls this year’s
Homecoming program for alumni “a
very different kind of event from any-
thing we’ve ever had before.”

One important way in which this
year’s scheduled events depart from
past homecoming festivities is in the
weekend’s focus, Mish explains.

“Here’s a group focused on one
thing,” Mish said, and that one thing
is the recollection of World War II, a
war that affected every student,
whether interrupting, preceding or
following his studies.

Just as World War II had its
effect within the W&L community,
so too did W&L have an effect upon
the fighting of the war itself, and the
university’s Alumni Magazine re-
ports that, “student-for-student,
Washington and Lee lost more of its
alumni than any other school in the
United States.”

By August 1944, nearly 3000
men—accounting for one-third of
W&L’s entire alumni roll—had
joined American troops in Europe,
the Pacific, and beyond, and before
peace was again restored to the world,
136 alumni had lost their lives.

Of the veterans who had left
without a degree the classrooms of
W&L for the battlegrounds of World

 I-orn~eCom'ing *9?)

ebrate 50th

' Photo by Betsy Green
Phi Photo Editor

Distintwe headgear identifies 1994 Five-Star Generals.

War II, some returned to campus and
resumed their studies.

One such veteran, Addison
Lanier, reﬂected upon the school he
found changed and yet much the same
when he returned, writing in the May
1946 Alumni Magazine, “Where the
man individually is concerned, there
isn’t a noticeable change. A lot of
inward change, but not the sort that
makes an apparent difference.”

In fifty years the campus has
doubtless undergone much more in-
ward and even outward change, but
this weekend its same doors and
grounds will open officially to those
who attended in years past.

Many a distinguished guest will
stand behind a podium in the next few
days, addressing an audience of
alumni and all others interested.

On Thursday evening, the well-
established journalist Charles R.
McDowell, Jr. (’48) will speak in Lee
Chapel, and Friday will bring Carol
M. Rose, Gordon Bradford Johnston
Professor of Law and Organization
of Yale Law School, to Lewis Hall at

12:10 p.m.

Aseriesof reunion seminarswill
also take place throughout the week-
end, featuring W&L professors of
history and politics, and examining
the effects of World War II upon
politics, women, the university, as
well as the war’s legacies in the years
that followed.

A banquet and fancy dress‘ for
alumni will be held Friday night, fea-
turing cocktails, dinner, and dancing
to the music of the Glenn Miller Or-
chestra.

Under the theme “W&L and
World War II: A Sentimental Jour-
ney,” Homecoming 1995 can only be
a weekend to add to the already rich
memories of the attending alumni..

To the presence on campus of
W&L’s alumni this weekend will also
be added the presence, in memory, of
their classmates who lost their lives
serving their country, a presence of
lasting power:

“As succeeding generations
come and go upon these green
stretches,” President Gaines asked in

1946, “what could we present of finer
inspiration than the story of these
young students who also walked the
grassy ways?”

WW

w 7%?

 I  995 The R!na—tum pm Octnhac 5 1325

Photo by Betsy Green

Phi Pnofo gar”

Welocome Back Alumni

fhgto by Betsy Green
' ' Phi Photo Editor

