'1

1

_§

  

an W33 C‘. ?_=.:;v aav.<.‘== ‘.-lisRAlW
 .:xaa«ss.sv;:a~._a a can L-mwnﬂ-8| I "

ON THE BEAT

NC hand lziclzs up support
at W&L campus

Miriello named
head coach 6

he iﬁing-tum Iﬂlri

VOLUMF,v§6, N0. 8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Boo!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Creatively carved pumpkins decorate Chi Psi’s front porch on I-Ialloween this week.

gend

9n1tﬁé‘iégal‘asp  .. .1 . :1
_ I1.Ri¢513IdB :of-VMI *6 SP. ,, , .,_in}ih¢ "
components. The"Socie_ty’s‘go31g_is'-’ 9e ,
h_,01a.r1y,i'forums and discussions‘.on_j I ' "
' at issues for the enjoyment ofthe ‘

.‘“.‘3" :

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 3, 1995

Freshmen election
results contested

BY SARA MCCRONE
Phi Staff Writer

They say it ain’t over until the fat lady sings,
and freshmen deﬁnitely found the truth in the
cliche this week during the runoffs for repre-
sentative to the Executive Committee. Gener-
ally it is the candidates themselves who are
most eager for the news of election results, but
their fervor was matched by classmates curious
to find out who had at last scraped by with
a majority.

The first runoff included the eventual victor
of Monday’s second runoff, Calder Britt, as
well as David Sugerman and Todd Poole, and
was extremely close. Britt captured the lead by
a margin of two votes, while Sugerman and
Poole trailed at 101 votes each. News of Britt’s
victory spread quickly but was closely fol-
lowed by the rumor that Poole was contesting
the election.

It wasn’t a rumor, however.

“I immediately contested the elections upon
hearing the results,” Poole said. “There were
312 votes, but only 304 people had signed up.
In light of this discrepancy and the close
margin of victory, I felt that something wa
not right.” ‘

Poole expressed his concerns to the Voting
Regulations Board, or VRB, a few minutes
after he heard the initial results.

“It is a possibility the ballots were stuffed-
but not by any of the candidates. Any of our
supporters could have done it,” he acknowl-

edged. “Of course, some people could have
forgotten to sign in.”

Sakina Paige, chair of the VRB, responded
to Poole’s suspicions in Monday night’s E.C.
meeting. She noted that there has been a
discrepancy between signatures on the sign-in
sheet and the actual numberofvotes in previous
elections but indicated her doubts that the dis-
crepancy was due to dishonorable conduct.

‘‘It got confusing at the booths, especially
during lunch,” she told a member of the E.C.
“It’s possible and more likely that some forgot
to sign in after voting. We have an honor
code here.”

In an interview by phone, vice-presiden-
tial candidate James Haslam supported this
scenario.

“Two people on my hall have come up to tell
me that they voted for me but forgot to sign in.
I trust the honor system here, and I wouldn’t
protest the election,” he said.

Paige indicated that changes will take place
in future elections.

“The VRB will meet prior to the winter
[upperclassmen] elections to determine if
changes are needed in campaigning and in the
actual elections,” she said.

E.C. President Keith Benedict suggested
that speeches and more informational meetings
with the candidates take place. Paige feels that
the confusion in the voting process this year
occurred because the elections fell around the
time of reading days, making it difficult for the

~ See ELECTIONS on page 2

V ,, ocabiy changethe environreen

1<.fzisét...i£wiomeh. who so despé

‘ ' perie_nce,'f were admitted
,the%sVMI experience; 1 fAddit1‘o

 

 

‘ tiieygfuied in favor _
hat the ’schoo1’s*adrfn_r
equal protection clause _
_ The court offered £

 
 

Phi ﬁle photo

On Tuesday the Leyburn Society discussed the possibility of women joining the ranks of the VMI cadets.

Concern for others shown at Blood Drive

BY JENNIFER MENDOCHA
Phi Staff Writer

Who enjoys being uncomfortable?

On Thursday, October 26, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Doremus Gym, 91
generous blood donors sacrificed a short amount of time and a degree of comfort
for the benefit of others. This blood drive, a biannual event at W&L, was
sponsored by Chi Psi, in conjunction with the Red Cross.

Josh Nitsche, the Chi Psi representative in charge of the blood drive, reported
that 91 pints of blood were collected, exceeding the amount collected at last
spring’s drive, and falling just short of the goal of 95 pints. Nitsche reported being
pleased that, due to the support of W&L students, faculty, and Lexington
residents, this goal was almost attained.

To encourage others to participate in future blood drives, Nitsche notes that

the experience of making a blood donation is “not as bad as one might think.” He
hopes to allay future donors’ fears about the process by mentioning that they are
in the hands of fully trained staff, and that complications such as fainting or
muscle spasms are not common.

After registration, a few routine tests are performed and some critical health
and lifestyle questions are asked in order to confirm that the individual is able to
be a donor. The actual blood donation only lasts about 10 minutes and is virtually
painless after the initial sting. Each donor contributes approximately 1 pint of his
or her blood. It takes the body only hours to replace the liquid plasma, and a few
weeks for it to replace the cells.

A group of potential blood donors were unable to make a donation for various
reasons, some because they were taking certain medications, others because the
iron level in their blood was too low.

In all, a good effort was made for this event, although, on a lighter note, a Red
Cross volunteer happened to note that female donors outnumbered males by
about 2 to 1.

Distinguished
alumnus dies

BY Roam D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Rupert Nelson Latture (‘15), former W&L faculty member, administrator,
and last surviving charter member of Omicron Delta Kappa, passed away
Thursday, October 26, at the Maryfield Nursing Home, High Point, N.C., at the
age of 103.

Mr. Latture came to Washington and Lee from his native Bristol, Tennessee
in 1911, where as an undergraduate he was elected into Phi Beta Kappa. In 1914
Latture and classmate J. Carl Fisher founded Omicron Delta Kappa. The
leadership society, which now has chapters at more than 220 colleges and
universities in the United States, recognizes leadership in campus activities. In
1990 Latture received ODK’s highest honor, the Laurel Crown Circle Award.

Latture earned his B.A. from Washington and Lee in 1915, followed by his
M.A. in 1916. After graduating from W&L, he taught at Albermarle County’s
Miller School. Latture then served in World War I from 1917 to 1919, and while
in France, he was awarded the French army’s Croix de Guerre.

Latture spent one year as principal of Central Academy in Stuart, Virginia,
upon his return to the United States. He then returned to his alma mater in 1920
as an assistant professor of romance languages. While a faculty member, Latture
served in such positions as head of the freshman program and chairman of the
political science department.

Latture also acted as an advisor for many years to Washington and Lee’s Mock
Political Convention. He missed the first 1908 convention, but attended every
subsequent event through 1984.

When Latture retired from teaching in 1962, then-president Fred C. Cole
asked him to remain as his assistant. Latture served as an assistant to the president
for 21 years, under Cole, Robert E. R. Huntley, and John D. Wilson. In 1983 he
retired once more and began working on special research projects associated with
Washington and Lee.

The university conferred the honorary Doctor of Laws degree upon Latture in
1980. According to the degree’s citation, he was a “mover” who “evok[ed] in us
sentiments of admiration, pride, and great respect. Of all the honorary degrees
ever conferred by Washington and Lee University, none has ever been awarded
with the special gratitude and affection that accompany this proclamation.”

During his years at W& L, Latture
took great care to ensure that new
students felt welcome, by greeting
incoming freshmen and their par-
ents as they matriculated in the fall.
As assistant to the president, he
often sat in the president’s outer
office and performed a similar role.
From his chair beneath a portrait of
Robert E. Lee, whom Latture called
his “contemporary,” Latture shared
stories, gathered from his many
years of service at W&L, with visi-
tors. He was also an elder
emeritus of the Lexington Presby-
terian Church.

Latture’s wife of 51 years,
Roberta Fulton Latture, preceded
him in death in 1968. Latture is
survived by a son, a daughter, five
grandchildren, and seven great-
grandchildren.

Graveside services will be held
at 2 p.m., Saturday, November 4 at
Stonewall Jackson Cemetary. Me-
morial contributions may be made
to the Omicron Delta Kappa Schol-
arship Fund or the Lexington Pres-
byterian Church.

Phi file photo

ODK founder Rupert Nelson
Latture died at age 103.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

P 1 k n '
BEYOND ‘
black Republicans .
 B    If all else fails, Brown said, Demo-
BY EM”‘Y BAKER crats la the race card and sa Re ub- ________ _ t
Y P
Phi Executive Editor lieanspm-i moist.
Bill Cleveland spoke next._ The g
0 0 0 0 Four black Republicans met in once vice-mayor of Alexandria said —
C0l1g1'eSS10na1 1nVeSt1g3tl0n Northen Auditorium Thursday night to that just 32 of 2500 black elected ofﬁ— B i  E
discuss why it’s not a dichotomy to be cials in the U.S. are Republican. ‘ ..
0 - black and Republican. Cleveland cited the ideas of finan-
contlnues; D eutch brlefed The politics department sponsored cial and personal responsibility thatthe
a panel discussion on “The Black Vote Republican party believes in as to why ~
_ , , , , ’ _ _ and the Republican Party at Century’s he supports the party. He also agrees
ffwashifnggjon, Dd.C.—iqllgressional II1V8StlIga[lOI'l into the damaging End» that faith in God was supported by the
° “'5 ° 3 mm“ SP3’ rich Am“, in“) Vemem in CIA °P°”‘u°n5 Though the Democratic Party has founding fathers of the country.
during the '35‘ years of the Cold war Continues with Direct” John M‘ hada“monolithic” hold on blacks, that Cleveland has tried to instill these
Dcu‘cn'5 Pncnng O_",cT inc i351 5cVcn Years of inc C°1d_W‘"v Several is changing, the panelists said. values in others through his work with It
defense spending decisions were made on the basis of what lS now known while the panelists’ involvement young black men in Aiexandrta_
to be tainted information. The Central Intelligence Agency is still unsure with polities and the Republican party Jeff Artist candidate for the Vir-
of whatinformation communicated by Ames’double agents is reliable and varied, they agreed that blacks have ginia House of Delegates, has been
what is misleading. While Deutch maintains that the blame for the heenexnloitedbv the Democratic party_ called 3 seihout, an uncle Tom and a
catastrophe cannot be placed on the directors during that period, he is JeffBl-own’director-ofcl-ass Roots wanha-he boy by other blacks,
taking steps to reestablish the CIA’s image, which has suffered consider- Development for the Virginia Repub- He is often asked why he is a Re- ,7
ably since the extent of its failures has been revealed. l-eon pott ’ compared the relationship niil,lican_
the Demgcratic Party has to blacks “I got tired of kissing the behind of
with that of slave owner to slave. the Democratic Party,” he said.
. .
“There were four things that kept Though they need the black vote,
Quebec Separatlst nlovernent slaves on the plantation: dependence, Artissaid, Democrats recognize blacks .. .. . . .. A I
ignorance, fear and race. This is the only when Election Day appears on the Betsy Green, Phi‘ Photo Editor
0 0 - - - - ‘
leader Parlzau I‘eSlg‘nS ggfgﬁﬁggiggsahgg t,’,l§rl:s“?::§lz'th the $52:a;gni:§2:_::in‘:::lg§:3:l Jeff Brown, director of Grass Roots Development for the
Blacks are depcndentonthe Demo- selves are basically relegated “to the Virginia Republican Party» Speaks 011 black Republicanism-
. . . . . ' ' ' ” ' 'd_
Montreal—The separatist movement in Quebec is dealing with an cmuc P3nY» Blown Saldv b_°°a“5_° " °°"‘°': Anus 53‘ , .
. . . - - d he believes in self-suffi-
additional blow as its leader, Jacques Parizau, resigned Tuesday after a advocates that any Problem m S°°"?ty . Ams 53‘ . . M D 
narrow loss Monday in the vote on secession from Canada. A very large Shcliuldntgejtsolliliellnyyltlhegiligelrnmerit in- Clel‘l(;yo:lll’l;le£lllnllfllilllenilligfgldﬁllllcrg.V c   e a S
percentage of the citizens of Quebec voted forsecession on Monday,which V0 Vc ' _ , . ’ f 'k_‘
underscores the necessity for the Canadian government to placate the licaaﬁlngggls El:’cm(;"‘5Bfrc(f‘vn:fs1;cdPul§3y  :o5[:1el;,P35l:3:s‘;’ifjcc'gu'l‘Y 0" ma o o
§§.°.§‘°§’{il"i:?,'§;'2,%.*Z2?“:.‘2°‘i;.sE2?ei.il’£“é':?i12ifé2.';‘;‘éZli:il‘§J.J§‘°?§  asoam    of in on . . and politics ~
votepang the l es of aghit)t/ei. patizan ’ P y starve children in school and take Randolph Street United Methodist
0 ' money away from old people. Church said that both parties lneed to
“Slave owners used to tell slaves, work for the good 0 the peop e.’ Bv EM,” BAKER
. too, that if they escaped, if they left the “Both Democrats and Republicans Phi Executive Editor
Barbara Bush I‘eVlSeS her plantation, all these bad things would needtoshowthattheycareaboutpeople it
happen to them,” Brown said. more than lust around election time.
. - Political columnist and commentator Charlie McDowell spoke of the
memolrs t0 plaCate Agee . _ . dramatic effect television has had on politics in his address in Lee Chapel
Wednesday night.
W h_ D C Th 1995 _ f f F_ Lad B b    McDowell was the inaugural speaker for the Fishback Fund for Visiting n
as ington, . .— e version o ormer irst y ar ara

Writers program. The money will bring a speaker to campus each year who has
written about public affairs, nature and environment, history and the theater.
McDowell has covered every national political convention since 1952. He
has seen how politicians and the people who vote for them have gotten away from
the issues because of television.
“The short, hardhitting commercial is more effective than a good half hour 1/
speech,” he said. People seem to care less about what politicians think than about

Bush’s autobiography, Barbara Bush: A Memoir has been revised to
remove references to former CIA agent Philip Agee. Speculation sur-
rounding the revision suggests that the passage, which implicated revela-
tions made by Agee in his own book regarding the death of CIA agent
Richard Welch in 1975, was removed in order to mollify Agee. Agee had
filed a $4 million libel suit against Mrs. Bush in September.

From Phi‘ Staff Reports

W&L University officials have an- Elswick’s resignation follows a pc-

Mike Tyson to fight Buster

 

nounced that Director of Buildings
and Grounds Bill Elswick resigned
last week. No reasons were given for
the resignation.

riod of discontent among B&G work-
ers, some of whom believe the resigna-
tion was a positive development be-
tween the school and workers.

what they can say about their opponent.

In 1968, during the average broadcast news story about a political candidate,

the politician himself spoke for an average of 42 seconds.

In 1992, the time was down to 8.4 seconds per broadcast.

  

 

d [tn-I3 hell‘;“Ein°dUnl%cT:it%’}PFcSi' ["1336  few Weel(<iS.h 1116 diS- Voter turnout has also decreased since television began to cover campaigns, A
0 en 0 n . ro sai t a ormer grunt e sta asconverte t eiran er h 'd_
Mathls Jr’ on  Eullgnngs and grcund Dnc‘t3_10T -ljatmcs inﬁll effotfts  uﬂionillgb ‘lg/iﬂidln Offb e Tile hope for intelligent and informative coverage of campaigns, McDowell
- _u‘' “'0” 5c1"’ca_53c mg ncc' cla 5 mc WI °VcT _ 3S_ mg 0" said, is campaign reform. If the candidates would spend lesstime on second bites
has vegas__Mn(e TySon,S Career Continues to recover from its brief to’ untu 3 “Placement 15 f°und- and Lcc Workers 135‘ Fndal’ mgnn and more time exploring issues, voters would make more involved decisions. h
legal detour as he prepares to meet Buster Mathis, J r, in the ring on Saturday S . _ ‘ ' ' I
night. Despite the non-specific “injury” to his right hand, his missing
manager Don King (who is embroiled in a legal battle in New York), his  
reported difficulties in adapting to life outside of prison, and the confidence .
of his undefeated opponent, Tyson and many others maintain that he will _
have the upper hand in Saturday’s fight at the MGM Grand.    I
, _ , ~VMI from page 1
Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by '
Pe Stuntz and Laura Kna \
ggy V pp tives: admit women, establish a parallel institution for
females, privatize, or develop their own alternative
creative option.
VMI opted for the parallel institution. Enter the Virginia
_ Military Institute for Leadership, an ROTC-like companion
. to VMI. According to its creators, VWIL’s curriculum and 2‘
military instruction differ from VMI only in that it caters to
. ‘  W the developmental needs of women. V
Judge Kaiser and the Fourth Circuit Court ruled that    ‘
VWIL is a satisfactory equivalent to the VMI experience. Em)’ Green’ M" Ph°'° E‘“‘°'
one-ludge on the aF.’P°“*“° court dissented’ h9w.°V"' He The W&L School of Law has reported 4-5 reports of theft in the last week. "
asserted that an essential part of VMI s program is its strong
alumni network and rich tradition. VWIL, less than two
years old, certainly does notlhave these same qualities. L h 1 1 d b 11 f
. . . .. “rt:‘.:;:%"“:;.:“:.:;°.%;:'2.'*'::::::‘.:?;:.":2*.::‘:-C... aw 5° °° P 395"“ Y t 9 *5
Editor s Note: GOP Watch is a special I 1. Cl Y’ Th h d §“ h. P if f in it
o us we aren‘_:° omas a 0 excuse "me “PI,” _e 9:15 and 9:30 p.m. on that same night.
weekly feature t0 keep Washington and case because his son, Jamal, attends VMI. If the decision is BY MICHAEL HEWLETT He said he has no idea Whether these youth
Leevs Students informed about the Re_ spilt, the ruling of the lower court stands. Having agreed to Phi Associate Editor were involved in the thefts young Said he has n
_ _ t t _ hear the case, the Court must answer two questions. First, general dosonnnon of the youths but nothing
pubhcan Presldentlal Campalgn In ad" d°°5 °q"al Protection under the law require that a” sum‘ A little less music may be heard around the substantial. He said security is workingto identify it
° supported schools admit applicants regardless of sex. Sec- W h- t d he Lo 5 h lth d . th th _
Vance of Mock Conventlon. fnfn ifasnti is the WI}; Program a Saﬁsfactory equivalent alsn l?z:]sta\Tveek,e\lV&\l,. S:Cl?P)lty hirsserecgilisved e‘S‘ﬁll%,t=f)’lrJe zfsking law students to report to us if
0 C exP°."enc°'. . . 4-5 reports of thefts, including some portable CD they see anyone they don’t know,” he said,
S ':‘:0l‘:‘gl’i:':l gvsggﬁtssstgttgﬁegiiﬁligicxgﬁz tS1:::":)‘:) 3: players, various CD’s and a wallet. The items “and law s”tudents should lock their items in
E yd t S were taken from the law school students carrels. the carrels. ’
’ ° ey ° corp ' Director of Security Mike Young said the last Young said if anyone has information iv
Dole galnlng Support of Upon analysis of the institution, he discovered “a unique h f n dl ts d 9.30 Th d- th th ft l ll M-k Y
edutgggiclrlgiglgggsghgigdtlgglitbfglrgtggiggncgtmfg; §o°u.‘.;"i“.;7’g'i‘?5’s‘Zi.§oi‘;T."ge ;’§n?.’£2m' seé’,;'E.;iw§§§ 2'fg§23‘.’§g427?S° " S’ P  °“ ' 8 °”"g
O C
cOnSeI V atlve groups In IOWa from his study. One, the school is a high pressure situation o
' h'ch f rst- ear students, or rats, are re uired to ada t to  t  t t d
iilgydrdus plhysi)cal and mental demands. q P    S   e d
Des Moines, lA—Senate Majority Leader and leading GOP Presiden- Two, there is a profound absence of privacy. All doors
lid] Candida“? BOP Dclc is claiming that nc I5 accumulating 5uPP°n from have windows and are notably missing locks. Keydets share Dean Manning, and Benedict before he even
kc)’ Tcngicus and Social ccnsclvauvcs in Iowa» a5_ inc PT°5Pccl Ofa Pcwcu communal showers and bathrooms. ,.,ELECT10Ns, from pagel knew that his inclusion in the election violated
candidacy 10°m5- Pcus Snow ma‘ Dclc nusaccnsldcmblc ‘cad cvcr Pcwcu The third justification is the mostcontroversial. (Indeed, Article XI, Section D of the Constitution.
amcng cnlzcns cf IPW3 mat 3“? ukclll ‘O 80 ‘O caucus; Tnc cndcrscmcnts the team of VMI lawyers disagreed on how integral a part of “I felt that the VRB prematurely published the !
‘nut Dole 15 Tcccnnnga acccrumg ‘O man)’ “Pens: 15 duc to inc fcwcnt the reasoning it should play.) Studies show that the moral VRB to plan speeches or meetings. election results,” Poole stated. “Before they had
d6S|l€ 0" bdnalf 0“ inc c0n5cl’V3uVeS Oftnm Stale 10 nave an anu'3P°n1°n development of men and women are different. Since honor But where does all of this leave Todd Poole, even heard my reasons for contestingthe election,
Candldatd and integrity are tested daily, the introduction of women, or who worked hard to run in a campaign in which they posted the results. Before the E.C. was even
A an altogether different moral process, would disrupt the he wasn’t even supposed to participate? called, they posted the results. And, most em-
I  1 d men’s moral development. “Basically,Iwasn’teven supposed to beinthe phatically, the E.C. was called because of my n
Richarde Concluded that fol’ VMI 10 admit W0m¢‘-U, the first runoff and it makes sense that I was cutout protests not because of the discre anc in the
Poll Shows Powel Wou ea institution must under . r . . a ,, P i
go radical change to accommodate [of the second runoff, which only included numbers.
the new students — precisely what VMI does not want. Sugerman and Britt],”hesaid.“Thisshould never Paige denies intentionally posting the results
' ' Furthermore, they argue that women who desire admission have happened.” before the situation was resolved.
Dole In N e‘v Hampshlre to reap the benefits of the VMI experience will not receive The VRB erroneously included Poole in “We posted the results after determining there '
ll. f0Tth6if admission isfundamentally atoddswithwhat the Thursday’s runoff because of ambiguous lan- wouldn’t be another election. We contacted the
H h- A ll d t d f536 N H h- t experience Constitutes-_ _ guage in the Student Body Constitution. candidates at that time. We had calledtthe E.C. to
Moﬁjry biwpgﬁvygaiggngﬁ éoﬁege found/thzirllfpgozincivtisoig Nevertheless, Massie pointed out that these arguments Sugerman and Britt each carried 60 votes in the verify if Todd could protest the election. There
run in the state’s primary, he would receive 33% of the vote while Dole a"c“5_lflnPg '”:lc‘{i1lnf‘- 1 al "em I d_ original election on Monday, October 23, and was no precedent in oilr white book [of voting
             .      a         .
Dole would receive 37% of the vote with Steven Forbes running second q op f h 6 am; diver“ “W,” bei n red Th c , PP d f t I t d_5 1 c 0P n 3)’ 0 In‘./cs 183 c c P055‘ 1 I Y 0 3V'n8
with 10% Many experts expect that if powell does indeed mnt then his QU,<’«S 10n_S_0 C ting _ I Y I _g 0 . e two votes instea 0 simp y inclu ingthe top two another election. When we found that we would
Candidac iwouid most directly impact Dolois Campaign yet have httle Court s decision will stress the inherent legality ofexclud- people. have to have another runoffbecause ofthe consti-
effecton iguchanan thus Clean.” the way forthe nomination ofBnohanan_ ingwomen from an all—malestate-supported military school. How could the board in charge of overseeing tutional rule, we took the results down.”
’ g Ifthe practice is f0Und10 Vi0l3l6 the C0ﬂStitUli0n, VMI will the elections ofofficers make such a fundamental Poole still believes he was treated unfairly but
be forced 10 integrate. mistake? says he has learned a great lesson in politics. .

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

Currently, VMI believes they odds are against them.
With Justices Souter and O’Connor representing the swing
votes, the case appears to be a toss—up.

“VMl has been overrun with lawyers,” said Richarde,
“most just want the thing to be over with.”

Benedict blamed the “poor language and poor
drafting” of the Constitution and approved a
recommendation by Paige to compile a list of
errors for future VRB members to avoid.

However, Poole protested the election to Paige,

“I am not trying to be a sore loser. I think that’s
[contesting the election] what I would have done
even ifl had won. I put my faith in the E.C. But
I am announcing my candidacy now for E.C.
spring-term elections.”

 

 

 

I

X

1

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

w&

 

ON THE BEAT

NC band lziclzs up support atV78L campus

Cindie Young’
Phi Features Editor

7l11ywal7LZ1clzofstu}§[into the pot, slzalee

it, an see w at comes out.

So Charles E. Jones of Dr. Lime Records explains the
musical recipe producing the music of a band newly arrived
on W&L’s air waves, a band by the name ofDoxy’s Kitchen.

Hailing from North Carolina, a state which has long
earned a name as a majorcity in the indie rock world, Doxy’s
Kitchen brings to the world of music compelling lyrics,
behind which lies, in Jones’ words, “acookin’ jazzy, groovy
band.”

Encouraged by W&L’s enthusiastic reception during
this year’s Homecoming Weekend, and a follow-up article
in The Trident of ﬂattering color, Doxy’s Kitchen “is very
excited” about its popularity in Lexington, and is eager to
keep alive such interest.

As the band’s manager, Jones explains that Doxy’s

rn

 

Kitchen has earned much attention in such cities as Char-
lotte, Chapel Hill, and Raleigh-Durham, and has recently
enjoyed airplay on not only college but commercial radios
thereabout.

Jones knows no better way to describe the band than

“just ﬁve guys having a great time playing music together.”

Its unique name refers to “Doxy,” a song by jazz musi-
cian Sonny Rollins by which the band members are particu-
larly impressed.

Doxy’s Kitchen is its own band, but its CD cannot lie far
away from CDs of Charlottesville’s Dave Matthews Band,
on any (organized) music-lover’s shelf.

The music of Doxy ’s Kitchen, in otherwords, follows the
same formula that accounts for so much of the success of
The Dave Matthews Band, a formula whose main ingredi-
ents are equal parts rock and jazz.

To judge by the overwhelming number of DMB logos
scripted across t—shirts, baseball caps, and bumpers about
campus, such a formula has a particular charm in Lexington,
Virginia.

As the music of the North Carolina band is not unlike the
music of the Charlottesville band, Doxy’s Kitchen seems to
hold the potential of becoming every bit as popular on
campus.

In one performance alone at a fraternity house on campus
several weeks ago, W&L students bought over 100 CDs and
15 t—shirts bearing the Doxy’s Kitchen logo.

Such enthusiastic support could only win the attention of
the band, and Doxy’s Kitchen has decided to make Lexing-
ton the next city in which it will concentrate its efforts.

“Doxy’s Kitchen is a real grass-roots band,” Jones ex-

 

Page 3

plains, and the best way to reach people is through real
people.”

The real people to which the band has now turned its
interest are the ones walking the Colonnade everyday, the
ones reading this article, the students of W&L.

In the past week, the band has already begun to focus on
W&L’s campus, and tables outside the Co-op featuring
earphones, demo tapes of the band, and free giveaways of
band material offer students a laid-back introduction to the
music and the logo of Doxy’s Kitchen. ’

“When I was there, there were some people playing
music on a portable stereo,” sophomore Justin Riedell
recalls; “they were pretty cool and I think people really liked
the music.”

An advertisement for Doxy’s Kitchen now adorns the
store window of Night Owl, and W&L’s own WLUR will
soon be introducing the band to the air waves above the red
bricks and white columns; upcoming plans include an hour-
long play of the band’s debut CD, "New Age Truck Stop.”

Chuck Carabello, Chief Director of Operations for
WLUR, has also discussed with the band’s manager the
possibility of an “unplugged” performance on the air.

Many other ideas, however, are also being considered, as
the band is willing to direct its energy in virtually any
direction, in order to maintain--as well as further-—the inter-
est it has already sparked on campus.

Dan Od»enW31(1
Phi Executive Editor

Meet Dave Bettencourt. At seventeen,
he is a senior at Burrillville High in middle-
class Burrillville, New Hampshire. His goals
for his senior year? To be elected class
clown, to start on the varsity basketball
team, to cause controversy with his under-
ground newspaper, Total Godhead, and to
take his beautiful girlfriend —— whose pas-
sion is in-your-face-rap — to the prom.

The media likes to glamorize the social

‘ills that plague our youth today. In the age
of “Hard Copy” journalism, teen pregnancy,
and murderous cheerleading moms, it is
difﬁcult to deﬁne a normal kid. It’s not the
Dave Bettencourts of the world that we see
on Ricki Lake, divulging their most intimate
secrets to America’s Voyeurs. The Dave
Bettencourts are not the victims of drive-by
shootings or heroin overdoses.

“We read often of youngsters who grow

up with violence and despair, but there re- Bell runs.

 

mains another coming of age, one experienced
by adolescents in cities, suburbs, and small
towns,” Miller writes. This is their story.

In Coming ofAge: The True Adventures of
Two American Teens, G. Wayne Miller tells
the story of two average teenagers growing up
in the not-so—average 1990s.

After proposing the idea to Burrillville’s
School Committee which they enthusiastically
embraced, Miller spent an entire year with
Dave, his girlfriend, Beth, and their wide as-
sortment of friends. Whether it was World Lit
class, work, parties, the locker room, Dave’s
diary or the principal’s ofﬁce, no subject was
too private for Miller to chronicle. Indeed, the
book provides the reader with a fresh and in-
sightful look into Dave’s world.

Coming of Age is especially poignant for
the college-aged reader, as it enables him to
return to the days of high school. Having been
removed from it for a few years, the book
reminds the reader of such momentous events
as prom, signing your best friend’s yearbook,
surprise birthday parties, and late-night Taco

the true

adventures

students to grow.

year.

Dave,an  

american teen

Witnessing the events of Dave’s senior year, the
readers discover those seemingly insigniﬁcant mat-
ters that can so completely absorb today’s teens.

' Along with Dave, for example, the reader devel-
ops a passionate respect for Mrs. Drouin, the ﬁercely
independent English teacher who challenges her

“Drouin fought for the abolition of the dress
code,” Miller writes. “Teaching kept her where she
most wanted to be: in the company of young minds.”

The reader also empathizes with Dave as he
battles with his mother over his high school courses.

He detests physics, but his mother, a biology
teacher at a neighboring high school, desperately
urges her son to pursue a science major in college.

A Harvard graduate and successful journalist in
Rhode Island, G. Wayne Miller turns out a book , .
which is a sheer pleasure to ingest. Captivating and ,, .:
inspiring, Coming ofAge presents the reader with a ‘
true-to-life journalistic account of a typical senior

Ifyou’ve ever wanted to be a ﬂy on the wall in the
day-to-day life of an average American teenager,
read G. Wayne Miller’s Coming of Age.

It’s the next best thing.

of

Jeff Straw, one of tire two stand-up comedians
performing at the Student Activities Pavilion at
7:30 on Wednesday, Nov. 8. Ticlzets are on sale
now tor $2, and  be sold for $3 at tire door.

Comedy Wears a gun in

Sonnentelct  Get‘ Slzorf

Kirle Susong
Plii Reviewer

Get Shorty - 3 1/2 stars

Over theyears, Hollywood has developed a real passion
for ﬁlms about organized crime. From the early days of
Jimmy Cagney through The Godfather and Martin Scorsese,
there have been some real successes about the Maﬁa.

So it is especially funny to see Hollywood make fun of its
own obsession with the mob. Get Shorty is just this type of
ﬁlm, about the foibles of the actors and producers who love
the romance of crime lords, and criminals who are eager to
get into the movie industry.

John Travolta plays Chili Palmer, a stylish Maﬁa soldier
who ﬁnds himself in Los Angeles trying to collect on
obligations owed both to his superiors and to his friends.

There he runs into a small-time producer named Harry
Zimm (Gene Hackman), infamous for movies bearing titles
like Hellish F iends at Horror High. But the catch is Zimm
has managed to get his hands on a wonderful script, and now
everyone wants a part of it, including his loan sharks and
Chili Palmer. When the short but star-powered Martin Weir
(Danny De Vito) agrees to act in the project, the stakes get
even higher, and when you throw in a Colombian drug deal

and an attractive former wife, you can see how the mix gets .

pretty spicy.

This ﬁlm is fun, fast and punchy from the start and never
lets up. The acting all around is superb, especially John
Travolta, who continues to remind us what made him one of
the pre-eminent leading men of the seventies. So many of
his characters radiate an easy-going charm that masks a
more subtle, dangerous conﬁdence. We’ve seen this ever
since he was Vinnie Barberino in Welcome Back Kotter,
through Tony Manero in Saturday Night Fever, and all the
way up to Vincent in Pulp Fiction.

And the rest of the characters in Get Shorty are equally

well-drawn. They all parody themselves expertly, espe-
cially De Vito as Martin Weir, a short but very popular actor,
who becomes so enamored with the Maﬁoso he even falls in
love with Chili Palmer’s rental car, a Pontiac minivan.
Delroy Lindo, Gene Hackman, Dennis Farina and Rene
Russo all contribute nicely, and there are even some surprise
cameos. But the real star of the ﬁlm is no single actor on the
screen, but the fabulous script and its direction.

The script by Scott Frank (Dead A gain) is based on the
novel of the same name by Elmore Leonard (himself a
screenwriter, oddly enough). Opting not to be as grimy as
the original novel, the script beautifully weaves together
some of the earthy dialogue without losing us in local color;
the characters are all just real enough to make their lam-
pooning effective.

Director Barry Sonnenfeld first gained a reputation~as;
cinematographer to the Coen brothers, working o'ri‘"siicIi""
ﬁlms as RaisingArizona and Blood Simple; when he ﬁnally
began directing on his own, it was in the stylish Addams
Family ﬁlms. And these credentials are apparent in Get

Shorty. He delivers a hefty dose of color and movement, but
because the ﬁlm is all about Hollywood itself, he is careful
not to commit overkill. He exercises restraint with the
camera, the surest sign of a director really in charge of afilm;
with a cast and script as great as these, who needs fancy
footwork anyhow?

At any rate, Get Shorty is an extremely enjoyable ﬁlm,
mixing elements of pure comedy with gangster posturing
and threatening, while simultaneously poking Hollywood
in the ribs. It could be described as a mixture of Pulp Fiction
with The Freshman and The Player. On the strength of its
cast, its direction and its script, I heartily recommend Get
Shorty to you.

»3‘3»38ar.¥é-Go see this ﬁlm now, while it's still on the big
screen. It’s worth a few Oscar nominations and the
seven bucks you'll pay if you see it outside of the
Lexington area. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

 

 

  

      
     
 
 
       

    
  
  
  

  
  
 
   
 
   

 

      

 

  

   

 

            
   
  

 

  
  

 
    

     
    
 
      
    

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4 C The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995
C H A O S by Brian Shuster ,1
l _
  {WERE Oﬁ9é>igg.IneModaSe~ioes.lnc.
by Jeff MacNe|Iy ...AND THEN I REALJZED, $2: ‘
,,, .
wuo REALLY WANTS §
\ ‘me warm ANMAY? 
5%
BUT s/ou SAID TAKE ;? y
ONLY CLEAR FLUIDS Rm-,HT_ 5
FOR A FEW DAYS. ~§ g
2  ~
#2,‘ % trot»!  e
  3 ..t.‘».f=»:\,~'e_'e. fl‘ \ll
 :.:-i; 2-. p 1  .
. / ‘I / "' ." "Z-i. .
cocilffn ’l>Sél‘a':§"?8Raa Wélililpiagéél , ., érllﬁlé l3n%’5'l’;5 lr ;/ The late bird
DEATHLE55 PROSE. TO MEAN? -§ I’, TO KILL IT.
3 ‘ -4./Q )1
£
§
2
3.
3
43 N
E .
E T . ,
W
TDE B.EV—ANV—BREM<Fp,g\- .
AND l3~'\-T VYUDE
l I llllllll““"""'
 lQl « ..‘1YOU'RE eoov, BUT / ’  , "
_ _ ‘(OWREORNO eozo‘: . \
, f   'NOBOD‘('6 M59; ME
 , ‘ REALLY Lrxue-A SINCE”
> , EMMETT KELLY Olav
‘. l l7ON‘T KNOW.
\ LATELY n enema *
LlKE EVERYONE
'Tl»\\NK’7 THEY'RE N
$7@‘.l®3lF5='¢:-- EXVEKV
ON N\‘( 3.0%
I
f N
l
l
A
t.
Valley .7/we]/aéa    
I mnowme STORES " K
4 Hardware» Paint» and Related Items IF AT FIRST YOU SUCCEED,
l Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. TRY  J.
l E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 3 '
n the latest DALBAR Consumer ticip.-mts all they need to help fulfill their
Satisfaction Survey, a comprehensive ﬁnancial goals and long-term expectations. y,
study of 2,000 linancial service companies In the years to come, we'll work even
- - banks. mutual funds. broker es. and harder to enhance the level of personal ser-
-§ 33
If insurers — TIAA-CREF was voted the vice and innovative solutions we offer to
. ‘  J  leading provider of retirement plans. help them build 8. secure and rewarding '
_-—- We'll try 00 do better next time. tomorrow. Maybe that's why so many of the
’ I i Not that we mind the recognition. it's best minds in the nation trust us not just
 e  just that a lot ofpeoplc expect nothing less with their money. but with their future.
é’ than the heat limm us. Over l.8 million indi- Find our more about America's
3" viduals in higher education and research, to retirement planning experts. Call us at 1|
‘Route 7, .B0.x.99A  he exact. And frankly. so do We. 1 300 842-2776 weekdays 8 am to 11 pm ET.
L€X1flgtOIl, V1rg1n1a   Day after day. for over 7 5 years, we've or visit our Wtab site on the lntemet at
Near the Horse Center  put everything we've got into giving‘ our par~ httpﬂ/www.tina-creﬁorg.
Phone 464-9499 3; 3
3 I 5
§   Ensuring the future
Lounge open 4:00 p.m. [O .7 3 for those who shape it.”
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.  ,
5 ‘ CKHF ecu-tilicates are distrilmlcd  TI/tA—CRl£l“ Individual and lnstiturinnitl Sea-vices. luc.

 

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun and **"‘FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and
Morel Organize a small group and earn a FREE trip
plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

(800) 95-BREAK!

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun,
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL,
TRIPS,EARNCASH&GO FREE!!!
StudentTravel Services is now hiring
campus representatives. Lowest rates
to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and
Egpgma City Beach. Call 1-800-648-

I

 

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

(‘Litre lfting-tum iﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Learning without learning

Where has the passion for learning gone?

University life used to be an exciting
environment in which students and professors
were genuinely focused on learning. The
process was what mattered——not getting the grade.

‘ Classes used to be forums for the exchange of

information and critical analysis of material. The
relationship between teacher and student was
reciprocal. They taught each other. Students were
not afraid to challenge or add to the discourse.
Learning happened.

Today’s goal-oriented society places the
emphasis on obtaining the highest GPA, the
choicest internship, and the well-paid job. Students
often neglect the process of education in pursuit of
its ends. Our tunnel vision prevents us from
acquiring the true benefits of learning. There is so
much more to course work than regurgitating
lectures during examination periods.

If we are to be successful students, we must use
our minds. Question the manner in which you
learn. Be critical of what you are being taught, for
history proves that knowledge is generated by the
naysayers. Advancement of mankind comes from
taking exception to the status quo.

Luther protested the sale of indulgences by the
Catholic Church. Locke said humans were entitled
to life, liberty, and property. Monet insisted the
depiction of light and color did matter. Heisenberg
was convinced that subatomic particles did not
adhere to the Newtonian laws of motion.

Take a chance. Raise your hand in class. Visit
your professor’s office. Choose the unconventional
essay topic. Do something.

Malcolm X said, “Education is the passport to the
future.” A student who simply goes through the
motions and never wonders why denies himself a
part of that future. Open your eyes. If you notice it,
the world can be a pretty interesting place.

Quote of the Week

“I’m sorry. I was always late in college.”

——A W&L parent strolling in to a 9 a.m.
history class 15 minutes after the bell.

 
  

OPINION

  
 
 
     

NE BELIEVE THAT
THE STUDENTS wru-
Hguo us FHIID THE
3597‘ LOCATION FOR
A NELU STUDENT
cenrsk.

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 

I set’ A
Pool, TABLE

rtrs IN
WATSON
PPNIL ION

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

000 "MM..-

THE VEET
House is
PRETTV
Qatari"

PAGE 5

am... wuAT'5
run-r are AR;/t
BETWEEN LEE

CHAPEL 3 HMS!!-
INGT'0N HALL?

 

Left, right cooperate in collectivism

JASON
SORENS,
’98

Upon the resignation of the previ-
ous columnist, I have taken over as the
“conservative” columnist opposite
Nova Clarke. Yet,Gentle Reader, do
not be deceived, for any adjective can
be used in a relative sense.

Though some of my opinions will
often sound conservative, others may
appear positively leftist. I do not seek
moderation for the sake of moderation,
however; rather, I adhere to a political
philosophy that defies conventional du-
alist labeling. I intend to present argu-
ment that is coherent and consistent,
and perhaps even persuasive. To that

end, I write this inaugural column about

the battle between collectivism and
individualism, and the alliance of both
contemporary conservatives and liber-
als with one side.

The difference between collectiv-
ism and individualism is brieﬂy this:
the former argues that government
policy should be fonnulated with the
good of particular groups (e.g. society,
economy, race) in mind, while the lat-
ter counters that government policy
should be framed solely with regard to
the rights of individuals.

Collectivism is divisible into two
main categories: utilitarianism, which
exalts economic efficiency as the proper
end of public policy; and ideological
collectivism, often cloaked in arational,
even anti-rational, emotionalism, pit-
ting one group against another.

The assumption of utilitarian col-
lectivism, implicit in every university
economics text, is that the growth of
the economy and maximization of “so-

cial welfare” should be thegcriteria for
public policy formulation and appli-
cation. Modern politicians almost uni-
versally adhere to this philosophy, es-
pecially when seeking to gain the votes
of well—educated neo-conservatives.
For example, President Bill Clinton
recently outlined his two criteria for
good public policy: “Number one, it
should be good for America; and num-
ber two, it should be good for the
economy.” This statement reveals the

President’s collectivist bent. He was’

either being redundant or self-contra-
dictory. For he must have meant that
what is good for the economy is also
good for America, in which instance
his statement was redundant. Or he
was saying that, in some cases, what is
good for the economy is not good for
America, in which instance he was
being self-contradictory by announc-
ing both criteria as prerequisites for
good policy. Let us assume that he did
not intend to contradict himself, but
was instead using redundancy as a rhe-
torical device. Thus, the President be-
lieves that the good of America is at
least to some degree determined by
whatever is the greatest good for the
greatest number of people, whatever
maximizes the utility of that group we
call “America.” In this sense at least,
Bill Clinton is adhering to collectivism
rather than individualism. Republican
supply-siders, too, defend their eco-
nomic policies with appeals to eco-
nomic theory, promoting economic
growth as an end in itself. Economic
growth is an aggregate concept; it ap-
plies to groups primarily, and only
secondarily to individuals. If economic
growth is intended to be a justification
for any policy whatsoever, that justifi-
cation is therefore collectivist.

The second, more dangerous kind
of collectivism, ideological collectiv-
ism, is unfortunately also more com-

mon. In the ongoing budget debate,
Republicans argue their support for the
younger generations, “our future,”
while the Democrats counter with sup-
port for the elderly, “our heritage.” A
naive observer would come to the con-
clusion that the United States is em-
broiled in a civil war, in which all
children are joining battle with all se-
nior citizens. The blatant ad populum
appeals by both sides sicken any logi-
cal thinker. Indeed, this sort of collec-
tivism relies on emotional hysteria. On
the other hand,
this philosophy

only achievable through coercion.
Thus, under social-contract theory,
certain individuals who go by the
name of “govemment” take away the
rights of other individuals by force.
The group of government officials has
more rights than the group of govem-
ment subjects. Locke’s theory breaks
down into collectivism.

Social contractarians argue that, if
anyone does not agree to the govem-
ment, he or she may leave for another
country—and another government. The
social-contract
g o v e r n m e n t

does at least at- ————— C ‘ ——-———-—- breaks down into
tempt to incorpo- a windshield-
rate some modi— - _ washing scam
cumofethicaland  social contract writ large. Like
moral concerns government breaks the burn at the

and apply them to
policy. Unfortu-
nately, it does so
in a patently col-

down into a wind-
shield-washing scam
write large....the gov-

intersection that
wipes your wind-
shield and then
demands com-

 ernment_ror<;es yen to, e:::3::::,£°'
this kind ofthink- accept its services government
mg can be laid and demands what_ forces _you to
squarelyatthefeet . accept its “ser-
of the democratic everpayment “deems vices” and de-
social-contract a ro riate_ mands whatever
philosophers,  p payment it
such as John deemsappropriate.
Locke. At first Government

glance, this attribution seems ironic,
since Locke purportedly advocated lim-
ited government and individual rights.
In fact, however, Locke’s social-con-
tract theory undennines individual
rights and perpetuates collectivism.
Social contract theory relies upon
the oxymoron that individuals volun-
tarily give up certain rights in order to
secure others. The surrender of rights
is involuntary by definition. Giving
away one’s life, liberty, or property
voluntarily is the free exercise of natu-
ral rights. The surrender of rights is

only exists by violating the wishes of
its subjects, while at the same time
forbidding its subjects to do the same
to each other. This double standard
gives rise to the contemporary lack of
clear thinking about applying moral
norms to government policy. The solu-
tion is a thoroughgoing political indi-
vidualism which treats individuals in
government and individuals not in gov-
ernment as human beings with the same
set of rights. This system is the only
one that avoids collectivism; thus, it is
the only one that is truly moral.

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬁlri

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Remy Green
Editorial Cartoonist: Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Ivnnifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Ar-tier Anne Alv_ord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current coun definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wIu.edu

GOP Congress must protect environment

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

Let ’s talk about money. It’s the hot topic of the
season, considering the Republican budget cuts on the
Hill. I don’t really want to get into the budget because
there are way to many things involved with that and
besides that, there are way too many items in the budget
that I haven’t a clue about. I want to relate money to a
more specific area, the environment. Admittedly the
Republicans haven’t closed down the EPAor any of the
other agencies charged with protecting the environ-
ment, but it isn’t from not trying, it’s from the realities
of the budget. If you want to reform American govern-
ment back to free and wholesale environmental de-
struction then you have to pay for it.

Just recently, the Senate agreed to reinstate a mora-
torium on the granting of licenses for mineral exploita-
tion. The House had voted to continue the moratorium
since the budget hawks realized they were giving up a
huge amount of potential taxpayer money to industries,
many of which are not even based in the United States.
Under a law from 1872, the government sells land for
prices of about a dollar an acre to people who stake it
out. These people then sell it to the mining companies
for a slightly higher price. The mining companies then
spend some money and remove millions of dollars of
minerals from the land. None of this money goes to the
average citizen. Instead, he ends up putting out addi-
tional money in order to finance the cleanup of the land
from all the chemicals and environmental devastation
the mining companies leave behind.

It seems ironic to me that the Republicans, who
have been complaining about outdated laws that penal-
ize the country and don’t apply anymore, are support-
ing a law enacted when General Grant was President of
the United States.

Then there is the decision to open more National
Forests, like the Tongass in Alaska, to logging. Perhaps

some of the old dead trees should be cleared out,
although in the natural scheme of things it is more
beneﬁcial to leave the dead wood around to fertilize the
new growth. But opening the forests up is also costing
the taxpayers money that we never see any return on
because most of the trees out get shipped to places like
Japan. When we agree to open up the forests to timber
companies we build a red carpet of roads to allow them
access to the trees they are going to cut. These roads are
used mostly by the timber industry and by a few
random nature-lovers who are trying to get further
away from the already logged areas. The Republicans
in general are not great

no taxes, no income tax, no sales tax and they get
money just for being residents of Alaska. This is all
funded from their taxes on theoil industry. None of that
money really makes it down to the lower 48. Instead we
all go up to Alaska, buy touristy things and add our
hard-eamed dollars to contributions to the 550,000
people of Alaska. On a more esoteric note ANWR is
incredible to visit. I was there this summer, and a few
oil rigs would completely ruin the entire area, espe-
cially if they start dripping oil all over the place, since

the entire area is tundra and very wet.
Finally, Congress must consider Superfund
reauthorization. This is one

supporters of backpack- thing the Republicans
ers and Sierra Club mem- ‘ ‘ haven’t been able to mess
bets. but those are the with too much. Many con-
only average citizens who servatives, including Dick
benefit from these roads, I personally care In uch Anney and Bob Dole, want

and I’m sure in the long
run they would be will-
ing to take the alternative
of hiking in to camp.
Finally, one of the hot
topics of the 104th Con-
gress was put forth by the
alwaysinterestingAlaska
delegation. They want to
open the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge to oil

more for the environmental
aspect of these laws and be-
lieve saving the few remain-
ing wilderness areas is much
more important than saving
a few dollars in the short
run. I am grateful to
people...who feel the same...

to repeal retroactive liabil-
ity. This law forces com-
panies that dumped prior
to there being a law against
dumping to pay the costs
of cleanup. Fortunately,
the Republicans couldn’t
find a way top repeal the
law and still pay for the
cleanup that is needed on
many Superfund sites.

drilling. In fact, one of
the Alaska senators said
that oil drilling was a
natural part of Alaska, or something to that effect. I’m
sure that when the first Americans crossed the Bering
Straits that was one of their thoughts. I can just imagine
a conversation among some ancestors of Senator
Murkowski. Bob is complaining about his wife com-
plaining that he is spending too much time away from
home hunting caribou and polar bears. So he tells Joe
that he is going to convert to the other natural way and
drill for oil to sell to the losers who went down south.
This is the beginning of the great oil drilling debate,
100,000 years ago.

Back to money though, the citizens of Alaska pay

I personally care much
more for the environmen-
tal aspect of theselaws and
believe saving the few remaining wilderness areas is
much more important then saving a few dollars in the
short run. I am grateful to people like Senator Chafee
who in general feels the same way.

At the same time, I am grateful to the budget
hawks on Capitol Hill who are stopping some of these
provisions from being passed, although there are a
great many anti-environment bills like Endangered
Species Act reauthorizationithat they do support. Some-
times the best way to get a point across and win a
victory is to think like the opponent, but with a different
goal in mind.

 

 

. OPINION

;Arriba! ;Asistan la fiesta Mock Con!

GREEN LAND

Ballroom there had been the site of the
presidential inaugural ball since, like,
the dawn of time. As good tourists, we

and we were just sure something excit-
ing was going on inside. We tried to
peek inside so we could see what the

people as far as the eye could see. In a
vain attempt to blend in, we smiled at
the guests and said, “Hola,” as they

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

Betsy Green

The Mock Convention Gala is com-
ing up soon, and noone knowsadamned
thing about it. After all, no current
students were here when the ﬁrst one
was held at the last Mock Con.

really wanted to
see the Ballroom.
The whole idea of
an inaugural ball
seemed so glam-
orous, with the
new president a

(6

I’m pretty sure the
Mock Con Gala will

Ballroom looked
like, but it was
dark and full of
people. We real-
ized to see the
Ballroom we’d
have to sneak in.

passed by. The Ballroom was deco-
rated in red, white and green bunting,
Mexican ﬂags, and random crepe pa-
per and balloons. Entertainment was
provided by a mariachi band.

Mom and I ﬁgured if we were going
to crash this party, we might as well go

h  gepleral ctlmsegsus seems to bg virtual Citriderella, have lots in common (svql weh djid. pcllogut, [so yve helpledﬂpurpelpes tlo tg‘:
t at l wi invo ve ressmg up an minus t e mice . . . asn’tt at ra- Se Ou on a 6 8 es. a
drinking. How unusual foraWashing- and unreasonable w lth the shlndlg my matic?) probably needlessly that the food was
ton and Lee event. Still,Iknowalot of curfew. mom and I attended. The galaevent all Mexican—-and fabulous.

pelpplle arle ftqrious about vtvhattmthiﬁ th Ugfortupatqly, T h e r e w i l l be gelld in the Gfrilllid .lll’r}r‘i pretfygure the Mock CortihG3la
w oe gaa mg is going 0 a e oor o e , a room 0 e wi ave o in common wi e
about. Lucky for you, I have personal Ballroom was dancmg...as near as Mayﬂower Hotel shindig my mom and I attended. The

experience with this whole inaugural
ball/gala thing. And as always, I’m
willing to help you all out.

Granted I didn’t go to the Mock Con
Gala before, but my experience was
even closer to the real thing. A few
years ago, my mom (who is going to be

locked every time
we tried to sneak
in to take a look.
We had pretty
much given up on
the whole thing
until one night the

I can tell the Mexican
Hat Dance will be a
key way to impress
others.

was apparently a
conference for
Taca Airlines.
Taca, near as we
could tell, ser-
viced Southern
California and

guests will be homogeneous, though in
a paler way. There will be dancing...as
near as I can tell the Mexican Hat
Dance will be a key way to impress
others.

Probably thebiggestcommontheme
was that everyone seemed to be

way thrilled to be mentioned in my
column) and I were on vacation in
Washington, D.C. We stayed in the
Mayﬂower Hotel and were really ex-
cited when we found out that the Grand

door was open.

Mom and I were on our way to »

dinner and happened to pass by the
Ballroom on our way out. People were
wandering in and out of the Ballroom

Mexico. Why
they chose to hold their convention in
Washington, D.C. is beyond me.

Mom felt a little uncomfortable at
first. We were the only non-Hispanic

drunk.Tequila and Dos Equis seemed
to be crucial to have a good time.

So, go to the Mock Con Gala and
have fun. If you see me, don’t forget to
smile and say, “Hola.”

America must avoid generational conﬂict

MY VIEW
Jennifer Galardi, ’96

EDITOR ’S N 0 TE : This is the second of three
articles on the state of Social Security.

Fortunately, the war between the North and
South has been over for a century (although I am
sure many would contend otherwise). However, our
nation may soon ﬁnd itself involved in another bitter
confrontation with a completely different battle cry:
that of generational warfare.

I am assuming most people who read last week’s
editorial on Social Security walked away saying,
“Great. Who cares?” A year ago I would have had the
same reaction, but I actually learned something this
summer at my internship (besides how to be a pro at
crossword puzzles). Our generation should be espe-
cially concerned about the fate of Social Security and
understand what all the fuss is about. Because unless
appropriate and gradual policy changes are made
now, it is our generation who will bear the entire
burden of a dysfunctional program.

It is important to recognize that many citizens
regard Social Security as a generational contract
between the old and the young. It seems only fair that
the working generation help support those who can

, no longer sustain abstaridarql pf_ liv_irig_tl_iat they are _

used to. After all, ioiir'parer'i't"s“ have been fiscally

‘ responsible for us for years. Although such a contract

is only a political creation (there is no real financial
or legal basis for Social Security), it is a belief that
our country has seemed to adopt and one which sets
the stage for the discussion of generational equality.

However, if we accept this assumption, given
current policy the Social Security system will be
anything but fair to our generation in the future.
Under the present system, today’s retirees receive
beneﬁts worth two to ten times what they would have
earned had they invested all their lifetime Social
Security taxes in recent years, most economists agree
that under current law Social Security will not offer
large categories of younger participants anything
approaching a fair market return on what they paid
into the system.

What causes such an unequal distribution of ben-
efits between generations?

As mentioned in the previous editorial, one of the
main reasons for this inequity is,rapidly changing
demographics. Shortly after the retirement of the
Baby Boom generation beginning in the year 2010,
the OASDI trust fund begins to run a deﬁcit in 2013
and is projected to be bankrupt by 2030. If the
government wishes to continue to supply sufﬁcient
payments to retirees, the only option it will have to
account for such shortfall of funds will be to substan-

tially increase taxes on workers of our generation.
Those responsible for such a huge increase in
payments, namely those currently between the ages
of 30 and 50, never faced with the dilemma of
supporting an increasing retired population, will
gain the beneﬁts while our generation reaps all the
consequences. Again, this option hardly seems fair
in light of the fact that Congress can make appropri-
ate policy changes now to avoid such an unjust
obligation on the working class in the next century.
It is interesting to note that most administra-
tions have recognized this sort of generational
inequity in the financing of the Social Security
system. The Ofﬁce of Management and Budget
(OMB) routinely included a section titled “Genera-
tional Accounting” in its ﬁscal budgets. This section
ofthe budget indicated how much a typical member
of each generation can
be expected to pay, now
and in the future, in net

information to obtain new members and reassure its
current contingency. In a report on entitlements and
the federal budget deﬁcit entitled “Setting the Record
Straight,” the AARP throws out many numbers and
facts which contend that Social Security does not
need to be touched or altered.

However, all their numbers and charts monitor
past trends and blatantly fail to display projected
numbers for future costs. Although the report
admits that the costs of sustaining Social Security
rise in the next century, they assure members that
these costs level off by 2030 and the ratio of depen-
dents to workers will actually be lower in 2065 that
it was in 1965.

But they fail to recite the consequences of the
demographic changes between the years of 2010 and
2030, and thus fail to recognize the misfortune of
thoseretin'nginthese“in-
between” decades,
namely our generation.

taxes (taxes paid net of
transfer payments re-
ceived). This part of the
budget was visionary in

C(

It is time for our genera-

Unfortunately, many
blindly subscribe to the
AARP’s position as truth
without any knowledge

discussing and explain-
ing what future genera-
tions must pay given cur-
rent policy and the
government’s internal

._ budget constraint which
states that government

bills not paid by
current generations must
ultimately be paid by
future generations.

tion to organize a similarly
powerful group to defend its
interests, not through false
information, but through
substantial data that has
been supported by research
and analysis. Our genera-
tion has a particular stake
in seeing the system ﬁxed

of the facts.

It is time for our
generation to organizea
similarly powerful group
to defend its interests, not
through false informa-

tion, but through substan- >7"

tial data that has been
supported by research
and analysis. Our gen-
eration has a particular

Although the report
for FY95 is rather
lengthy and full of
details and qualiﬁers, it
undeniably displayed
the strong upward trend over the past century of
lifetime net tax rates which will continue to surge
through future generations. However, in Clinton’s
budget for FY96, the OMB conveniently omitted
such a section in its report. Why all of a sudden has
this trend been ignored? And why is everyone so
reluctant to discuss and debate the need for refonn?

The reason is this: Social Security reform is
probably one of the most politically charged issues to
confront our government. The American Associa-
tion of Retired Persons (AARP) is not merely a group
of old people demanding their Social Security checks.
It is an organization with over 30 million members,
more than $382 million in total revenues, and an
extremely strong lobbying force on Capitol Hill. No
wonder congressmen are scared stiff to even discuss
reform, much less propose cuts in the program.

Oftentimes, the AARP ﬁlls its reports with false

n0wCOO

stake in seeing the sys-
tem ﬁxed now, but the
longer we wait to reform
the Social Security sys-
tem, the more inequality
there will be between generations. .

I do not wish to incite anger or instill contempt in
our generation toward our parents and grandparents.
Just the opposite, I would hope to avoid generational
conﬂict by providing the facts and their implications.

As the Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement
and Tax Reform stated in its report in August of 1994,
“Throughout America’s history, each succeeding
generation has enjoyed the promise of a better stan-
dard of living.” Today, current entitlement programs
jeopardize that hope and promise. I truly don’t be-
lieve that our generation is being selﬁsh and demand-
ing a greater return from the government than our
grandparents or parents receive. We are merely ex-
pressing a well-founded concern for the economic
future of our country and I believe if all knew the
truth about the dismal outlook of Social Security,
even our grandparents would feel the same.

LETTERS

New campus sign policy
meets with (mostly) respect

To the editor:

We would like to thank everyone for respecting the new policy/guidelines on
posting notices on campus. Many students and faculty have commented to us on

aesthetically correct manner of displaying the Cadaver symbol...

J. Keith Benedict
E.C. President

how much better the campus looks without the scourge of plastered notices taped

to every conceivable walkway, pillar and post on campus. Thank you.
Now, if we can just convince our friends in the Cadaver Society to ﬁnd a more

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

Write in Washington for Board of Supervisors

To the editor:

I wanted to take this time to urge the citizens of
the Buffalo District in Rockbridge County to vote
for Mr. Hal Washington, write-in candidate for
Board of Supervisors. I have worked closely with
Mr. Washington in the past on several issues regard-
ing local government. In this time I have grown to
have nothing but the utmost respect and admiration
for Mr. Washington.

I have found Mr. Washington to be a southern
gentleman who stands for integrity and character.
While working together he never ceases to amaze
me with the amount of energy and time he puts in to
serve his community. He is a man who speaks the
truth, who isn’t afraid to stand alone and who pos-
sesses great wisdom and forethought when address-
ingissues affectingthepeopleofRockbridge County.

Mr. Washington has often told me that if he
were in local office he would schedule at least

four districtwide meetings a year to casually speak
with his constituency. He would go beyond making
himself available, to encouraging citizens in his
district to get more involved in local governing
decisions. Mr. Washington truly believes that the
decision—making process belongs to the citizens of
Rockbridge County.

I am a born and bred Virginian as was my
daddy. My grandfather as well as my father
farmed Virginia soil. I have lived in several counties
in Virginia that once were much like Rockbridge
County with its rural character and rich southern
culture. What is left of my granddaddy’s farm sits
among the sprawl that has resulted in the northern
counties of Virginia due to lack of forethought and
planning on behalf ofthe local governing ofﬁcials.
Mr. Washington and I have talked long hours about
my concern for our local culture and farmlands. His
thoughts for community planning and growth with-
out infringing on property owners’ rights is truly

progressive and wise.

I am voting for Mr. Washington because I love
Virginia with all my being. I am often saddened
to see how communities in the most beautiful
commonwealth are being homogenized with sprawl
and poor planning. I believe Rockbridge County is
the most beautiful county in my native common-
wealth. I believe Mr. Hal Washington is the man
who is most capable of leading our county into the
future. Providing for growth, yet maintaining and
encouraging the respect of our rural southern cul-
ture. A southern culture and way of life that is
becoming endangered across our beloved Virginia.
Please vote for Hal Washington if you care for the
future of your heritage. Just ask the attendant how to
write in Mr. Hal Washington’s name; it’svery simple,
and the right choice.

Darrell Lee Croson
Lexington

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Career Workshop

Trying to decide on a major or
career path? Attend the Career
Focus Workshop on Tuesday, Nov.
7 at 4 p.m. in Room 108 of the
University Center.

College Libertarians

Saturday, Nov. 11, Jacob
Homberger, president of the Future
of Freedom Foundation, will be
speaking on “Halting the Destruc-
tion of American Liberty” in Northen
Auditorium. The talk will take place
at 2 p.m. and is sponsored by the
College Libertarians.

Drama Auditions

Preliminary auditions for“ Faust,”
will be held Nov. 3 from 4 to 6 p.m.
and 7 to 9 p.m. and Nov. 4 from 4 to
6 p.m. in the Keller Theatre for those
interested in creating the script and
ﬂeshing out characters. Audition
materials are available from the The-
atre Department secretary.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the surprise hit
of this past summer, Smoke (USA,
1995), directed by Wayne Wang, in
English. Screenings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Nov. 10 and Satur-
day, Nov. 11 in the Troubadour The-
ater, at the corner of Main and Henry
Streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission. Smoke features an all-
star cast including Harvey Keitel,
William Hurt, Forrest Whitaker, and
Stockard Channing.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by poet Brendan
Galvin, author of Great Blue and
Saints in Their Ox-hideBoats, Thurs-
day, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m., and novelist
and poet Lynne Sharon Schwartz,
author of Rough Strife and The Fa-
tigue Artist, Wednesday, Dec. 6 at
4:30 p.m. All readings will take place
in Northen Auditorium.

Goldwater Scholarships

If you are a sophomore or junior
with a B average or in the upper
fourth of your class who plans a ca-
reer in the mathematics, science, en-
gineering, or medical research ﬁelds,
you may qualify for a Goldwater
scholarship ($7,000 annually). Con-
tact Dean West-Settle (X8746) be-
fore Nov. 28.

Habitat Square Dance

On Friday, Nov. 10, Habitat for
Humanity will be hosting a beneﬁt
square and contra dance. The dance
will begin at 8 p.m. at Southern Vir-
ginia College’s Chandler Hall in
Buena Vista. Becky McKenzie will
call to the music of Wildgrass. No
experience or partner necessary. Ad-
mission is $5 per person. Child care
will be provided for a small donation.

Internship

Interested in an externship/intern-
ship opportunity with Smith Barney
in New York? Attend the information
session on Thursday, Nov. 9 at 7:30
p.m. in Room 221 of the C-School.

Practice Interviews

Seniors may sign up for video-
taped practice interviews in the Ca-
reer Development and Placement Of-
ﬁce. There are two more days of prac-
tice interviewing this term: Wednes-
day, Oct. 25 and Thursday, Nov. 9.

Support Groups

A confidential support group is
meeting weekly for W&L women
who have experienced sexual assault/
abuse at any time in their lives. This
group has been meeting weekly for
eight years with the membership al-
ways open to new members. Each
member signs an agreement of conﬁ-
dentiality at the first meeting. Please
call Carol Calkins, the Counseling
Center secretary, at x8590 or the
University Health Service at X8401
to learn of times and locations.

Asupportgroupis meetingweekly
forwomen who aredealingwith binge
eating, binge/purge eating or very
restricted eating. If you are facing
any of these in your daily life, you are
invited to join this conﬁdential group
which meets weekly. Each member
will sign an agreement of conﬁdenti-
ality at first meeting. Please call Carol
Calkins, the Counseling Center sec-
retary, at x8590 or the University
Health Service at x8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Winter Courses

The course listings forwinter term
registration have been posted to the
University Registrar page at “http://
www.wlu.edu/~registra,” and to the
Liberty gopher. Registration forms
will be available beginning Monday,
Nov. 6. Paper copies of the course
listing should be available to stu-
dents and faculty later thu; week.

 

Bringing the
Information Age
to you!

Check out The
Ring—tum Phi
homepage

Address: (http://www.wlu.edu/
~swilliar/RTP.html)

or access through Netscape

 

    
 

"A

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995
. l

l The Foreign :’\lllllfS Club in cooperation with the lnternational Club challenges you with this

 

 

5 (TI RRENI‘ li\"EN"l"S Ql‘lZI£’l"l‘E

¢\l[I“l|LIfl[If§
OF IIHIE \WIiIfK

 
 
  

ll I‘ iiiwic sf!" xliuf-r'n1.\', _,-'v‘r.?,*t'.i:.s'ni'.\:, slﬂltl .\‘lt'1f,-’ J0 ;mr‘1:c:pr1It'. I.’ to t'.r_pccI it: little ft:.c1s mii'tm'7’
I/IL‘ .s:!s1rfci2Is‘.’; .'l!.’$\l't‘." as immi‘ z,721u.r.!.i.«>7:x ;1\"t'»'.>3.-' can - crcii IfI>2i!_i' mic - ui2rfdro;7_i‘nz1i'slice! in
the ./".r.~i'c.v,izi3 .'-lf,~‘t'1.’.".\‘ l '/til‘ l‘«o.r m'ti2' the L‘.‘.’I."'-.’N7£‘t‘ of I.l?r‘ / itii‘t*J'.\ii}' ( title." hm);-r= iiiiriiisglzi my
.‘*:'icIu,i'. .‘\'m:cn1licr .-’ ". H.195.

l i lrish author, winner otthis year's Nobel prize for Literature:

2) Turkey's female prime minister. desperately reshuftling and
re-reshufﬂing her governing coalition:

3) Year when China regains control ofthe British colony of
Hong Kong:

4) Percentage of Yes ‘(Dies in the lraqi referendum asking if
Saddam Hussein should remain president tor seven more years: ......................................... ..

5) l\‘Al‘0's former secretary-general. charged with corruption ‘
and fraud and forced to resign:

6) Japanese island where. allegedly. American soldiers raped
a 0-year-old Japanese girl:

7; Sight ofthe newest peace negotiations on the Bosnian civil
war:

83 Atoll. famous of recent French nuclear experiments despite
worldwide protests:

9) Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman was found guilty ofc-onspiring
to bomb this New York City landmark in 1993:

l0) Nationality of Pope John Paul ll, who recently paid his

fourth visit to the LES;
l l ) UN. Secretary General who presided over the celebrations
marking the 50th anniversary ofthe world body:
ll) Year of Fidel Castro's communist revolution in Cuba:
l3 3 The two land masses ot‘Palestinian selt-rule after 37 years
of Israeli occupation:

,,.,,..,...._,..

 

Hilary Martin
Volleyball

J. P. Josephson
Football

The Generals were looking for somebody to
ﬁll in when starting tailback Seth McKinley was
sidelined with a shoulder seperation in last
Saturday’s game against Bridgewater.

That’s when juniorl .P. Josephson stepped to
the forefront.

Josephson, whose previous career-high rush-
ing total was 47 yards, rumbled for 97 yards on
31 carries in the Generals’ 24-13 victory. The
junior also scored on a one-yard touchdown run
with only 25 seconds remaining in the first half,
which gave W&L a 17-7 halftime advantage.

Sophomore Hilary Martin is carrying the torch
as the Generals march into the ODAC tournament
this weekend at Guilford College.

Martin was an integral part of Washington and
bee’s two latest victories, a win last Tuesday against
Guilford, and a triumph over Eastern Mennonite
last Thursday. She rolled up an outstanding 24 kills
against Guilford, which tied a school record, and
picked up two aces and eight more kills against
Eastern Mennonite.

Martin’s key contributions throughout the sea-
son were instrumental in W&L’s 26-6 season.

+l ) Outcome ofthe referendum on the future ot‘Quebec:

Fri-.rI pr1:e: u hc1skcI,*i1i of'gitIs,'
..\.'c::ond pr1:c: u suiicc>:_',*iil n,t’;_vi,‘i.'~'.'
if/1.'I'd,')HZ(;'.' a Sp(.>(.)Nfi!] nf_i_>:I!'.s'

as:

 

WHAT’S NEW?

 

Find out about The Steering Committee of the1996

Opportunities on Wall Street &
Investment Careers!

Mock Convention presents:

=
as
v-.-
5'

   

   
 
      

   

       

 
  
  
  

IIIIIin?f--------I-1-u'Irli‘i‘i‘ilI I

I I
I I
I I
I I
“A Bistro : Meet lfhe Presidential Gala
I 8 3 m M da I John Church, ’87, Economics Major
I am - - on I . . . .
‘ :8 am _ 10 pm _ ﬁuesday _ Tgursday : Associate, Dillon, Read and Co. Inc. Entertainment by The Midnight Movers
 ‘ : 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday : . .   and ‘
 : 9 am ' 3 Pm "S“nd3Y : Chris Porter, ’80, English Major  November 10’ 
: I First Vice President, Smith, Barney Inc. 9500  ' 1300 3-m-
.. I Wednesday — Spaghetti & Salad I Warner Center
5 All you can eat $4.99 5 Thursday, November 9’ 1995 Black Tie
: Th d 107 fff d 'th r d t ID : 7‘3° Pm’ R°°m 221 - - ~
. “I5 3V ' 0 ° 0° ‘ W1 S “ °“ . W. . Ticket and Memorabilia Sales
,1 . . ilhams School of Commerce _
I Friday - Seafood Nita - : Monday, November 6, through Friday,
: Crab Legs, Shrimp. Trout I MEET SPECIAL AGENT J. ROBERT SHAY November 10 I
: Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib, : FBI I 11:00 a.rn. - 3:00 p.m. University Center
' : 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95 : Room 1 13
E  . ,  . E TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14 $50 buys tickets, shirts, cups and rafﬂe
_ _ 4:00 P_M. tickets for two
‘ E ' , ' .. , H . 1 .   . ,   ,  E ROOM 109 UC Questions? Call 462-4057
- 19 W. ash,-ington St., Lexington, VA 24450 I _ __ +—
IIII IIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  tw -‘
Learn Why the New York Times  ,
‘ . r~. .‘ The Ring-tum Phl.
Calls Them a Hybnd of ' .  , _ -
N  Consulting and Publishing, turning out 4; ‘t _V19§hl"9_,l°" ‘md ‘-99 5 best d'°3‘°ﬂa, ;_
N  “Millionaires By the Dozen” Pl-|b"¢0"°" '5
1

  
  

Attend the
on NEVER   
Information Sessions ’ ’./ \.‘ f
’ ti; ’ L: » 
$ Positions for ALL MAJ ORS! Don t L et ,
Thursday; November 16 Your Student
Bl.lY cl-|RIs'rMAs R, P553, U0
* BEFORE we °‘“ G0 H“”3’«V

 

1 my ave-ave.

(.",'aravans is closing its doors
‘J and moving everything
’ to the Wrginia Beach store.

EVERYTHING’!
ON SALE!

* Until we close November 25,
y071 can save 0??

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for

Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner
For only $90.00

0 0 O 0 !4_Qf_O: Q 0 0: {go Q_Qtv_O,.I.\»:p_Q O O  Q 0 O 0 ﬁ‘i'! 9 9 O 9 Q CA0?

 

grearfall clothing. holiday dresses,
.s'wemer..i', jewelry, home ﬁzrnishings
and special Chri.s'tn1asgzj/is.

NOV. 1-7 15% OFF
NOV. 8-15 20% OFF
NOV. 16~25 25% OFF

caravans

1] 7 W Nelson Street 9 -164.3500
Dally 10am - 6pm 9 Sundays 11am ~5 pm

 

We Welcome your imput

‘>4.-1': ‘1?".' » ' '

wlu.edu

   
 

lllluI-'--__.........._-—...__-_a-h-h-IVMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl
\-

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student 9
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

Harbs’

19 W. Washin ton St., Lexington, VA 4450

 

 

Last Week:

VOLLEYBALL - W, 15-8, 15-3, 15-2, vs. Eastern Mennonite
WSOCCER - L, 4-0, vs. Roanoke in ODAC Tourn. semiﬁnals
WATER Po1.o- L, 24-4, vs. Villanova; L, 21-10, vs. Slippery
Rock; L, 18-8, vs. George Washington in EWPA
Southern Division Playoffs
Foon;Au,- W, 24-13, vs. Bridgewater

Gour -

Finished fourth in VMI Invitational

PAGE 8

S

@112 ﬁling-htm lﬁlti

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

This Week:

Voumrmu. - Today vs. Emory & Henry in quarterﬁnals
of ODAC Tournament

M, WCBOSSCOUNTRY -

Saturday in ODAC Champion-

ships at Roanoke

Foonuu.L-

Saturday vs. Guilford, 1:30 PM

NOVEMBER 3, 1995

prevails

 

T’ BIGVFANV

BY;SCO’l'I' BOOKWALTBR

 

.'.l_‘he drought is finally
over in Atlanta] 1  3 »

The city fwhichA. had
.never_before. _boasted a

team. found a
.urday:;}Wh

winner Sat-.A‘ A
he , Braves  

    

diansiirt six‘ games to win
the 1995 World Series.
Afte_r..-two. years of 1a- .
bor disputes and image»
related probleins, baseball A
finally got its act together
to produce a memorable
Series; Unlike the Super
Bowl, almost every World
Series in this decade has
i been close. andexciting. A‘ 

7' Five of the six garnesin

E the ’,95_ Series were decided

shy .one..,r.1,m.? ~'r'I‘here' was‘

' superb pitching, t..meiy hit-
ting, and of course, trash-
tallcing and controversy.

= _'After_the Braves swept
the fir_st;.1wo’garnesA in At-
’ . lanta,AaA controversial inci-

‘ dentfoccurred when the 

Indians? Mr. Congeniality, 1‘

- NBC reporter Hannah:
4 Storm for having the nerve
A A tointervievvkenny Lofton.
Urn, Albert, this is the
World Series‘, isn’t it? A
You’reVsupposed to be on j
your best. behavior, what-
ever that may be. .
Eddie'Murray, who last
~ spoke to the media during
 the Truman Administra-.
;. Ation, hadino comment. A
  V .The;lrrdiansrallied back V.
V to? win :.two_*“of the three
gfgames inj_Cleveland, in- A
V eluding a‘ Game 5 victory
I over Greg “Clark Kent”
Maddox. «But the Indians
apparently forgot the
meaning of letting sleep-
ing dogs iiewhen Orel
V Hershiserfspouted off
about how the pressure was .
. .; now orrtheliravestoavoid
dropping another Series, A
. which would likely evoke ._
’comparisonsAwitAhthatBuf- 

  
     
   

   

’ aretations, gun: Dave‘ Alas» _

' %tieAewasfannAing theﬂames 

in VA 1’ ta; " M. He ..trash_e‘dA 
’. lack of .eti- *

 

 

,1 .

 

V —V ' l.W.of ,§0U!'1dS*0H¥€1i1<¢.:e
‘i so great“v.va’y- for Dave lIO,:: x
,.;.start offhis team’s biggesﬁ
IV-AA home -game of_thjeA seasorzif
g But then guAes§;Wh0.hit» a‘
s1x:n;innitrg-ilitonieatm to
V provide -th‘ winning‘= and“
. ., 9

   

Tom Glavineand Mark
Wohlers. combined on a. '
one~hit masterpiece in
Game 6. Ollﬁweek after
Superrnaddux’ shut‘ down
‘.fthe.Ind.ians ontwo hits in 5
A Game}. ‘Whowould have
thought that the powerful 
‘Indians’ offense wouid be "
*"'f7he_ld to agpaltry .179 bats ;
, A ting‘avera'ge in the Series?
. A we :were privileged to
' watch the two best teams’ '
in baseball squareioff in
the World Series, and
chances" are good that they
will both-return next sea-
son. That is, of course,
pending J_ustice’s house
A will not be burned down...
A A On ;a totally unrelated A
 Asports A;AtlOfe;_,‘$0ph0m0re ‘ .
Jeremy’ Adams§ . defeated ;
AssistantProfessOrofPoli- -
’ tics Marshal Zeringuelast
weekinafootbaIldistance-
throwing‘ contest on
Zeringue’s home turf: the
front of the C-School.
Three heaves and one
tracer shot off the roof of
Newcornb' Hall later, after
Adams, won the one-toss
j contest,-_¥'Zezingue ﬁnally
managed to shake off the
rusttoout-distanceAdams.
Maybe there’s a future
 forProfessorZeringueout-
side of politics. I hear the
49ers are looking for a
quarterback these days...

 

championship‘fp’ro sports 

Vchoppedthe , evelandin-' V3

Photo courtesy of W&L Media Guide

Interim head coach Frank Miriello was named as
the permanent successor this week to the late
Gary Fallon. Miriello has compiled a record of
4-2-1 thus far in his first season as head coach.

Miriello named permanent
W&L football head coach

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Last Thursday, Head Coach
Frank Miriello was named as the
permanent head coach of the
Washington and Lee Generals
football program. Miriello has
held the position of interim head
coach since the unexpected death
of Coach Gary Fallon last April.

It was expected that a na-
tional search for a permanent
head coach, which would include
Miriello as a candidate, would
begin after the season’s end.

But according to Director of
Athletics Mike Walsh, “We were
pleased not only with the perfor-
mance of the football team, but
also with the way in which
[Miriello] and the entire staff had
come together after Coach
Fallon’s death...we had seen
enough and observed enough to
know that we wanted [Miriello]
to be our head football coach and

that it would not be necessary for
us to wait until the end of the
season to conduct a national
search.”

Thursday’s announcement was
metwith overwhelming approval.
Miriello, a ten year coaching vet-
eran of the General ’s football pro-
gram under Coach Fallon, has
earned the respect of his players,
their parents, other coaches, and
the W&L community through his
dedication and hard work.

Senior tri-captain James Ur-
ban said, “There is probably noth-
ing that feels so right...He’s per-
fect for the job, for this school.”

The W&L athletic community,
especially the football players, are
happy that Miriello intends to build
his own program on the solid,
respected foundations that Coach
Fallon laid during his seventeen
years as head coach.

“One of the goals in winning
the position was to keep part of
him in this program. And that part
of him is that ‘Falcon Fire’, that
passion for preparation, that pas-

._ Albert, Belle, cursed out A "

Volleyball team begins ODAC
tournament today at Guilford

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staffwriter

Guilford is the place to be
tonight as the Generals attempt
to clinch their ﬁrst Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference vol-
leyball title in school history.

Led by sophomore Hilary
Martin and senior Cheryl
Taurassi, the Generals enter the
tournament as the top seed, and
will face Emory & Henry in
their quarterﬁnal match.

Last Tuesday night, W&L
defeated the Guilford Quakers,
15-9,15-12, 15-11. Martincon-

tributed a school record-tying 24
killsinthevictory,whi1eTaurassi
added 36 assists.

Two nights later, the Gener-
als returned to Lexington to face
Eastern Mennonite, and needed
only fifty-ﬁve minutes to defeat
the defending conference cham-
pion, 15-8, 15-3, 15-2.

This victory served to clinch
the top seed in the ODAC tourna-
ment, and capped a perfect 10-0
home record for the Generals.

Junior Virginia Yoerg paced
Washington and Lee with a team-
high nine kills, and sophomore
Holly Thomsen contributed eight
kills and seven digs.

When asked about the team’s

thoughts before the ODAC tour-
nament, Thomsen commented,
“We’re excited to be seeded first,
and we think we have an excel-
lent chance to win it all. lt’s our
tournament to lose.”

The Generals finished the
regular season with a record of
26-6 overall, and 9-1 in the
ODAC. W&L’s sole loss in the
ODAC was to the Bridgewater
Eagles, a team that also elimi-
nated the Generals in last year’s
ODAC tournament.

This year, Bridgewater also
figures to be W&L’s top compe-
tition. Despite this fact, how-
ever, the Generals appear to be
ready for a showdown with the

Eagles, and to prove that the loss
in the regular season was a ﬂuke.
Thomsen believes, “We
should have the upper hand (in
the tournament) because we have
a deep bench and the experience
necessary to remain focused.”

The Generals have performed
well throughout the entire sea-
son, but all of those games were
in preparation forwhat really mat-
ters: the ODAC tournament.

If the Generals continue play-
ing as well as they have over the
past several weeks, then there is
no reason why they will not win
their first ODAC title and own
bragging rights in the conference
until next year.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The water polo team didn’t have much to celebrate this past weekend at the
EWPA Southern Division playoffs, but it still finished a respectable season.

Generals’ Water polo squad
ﬁnishes 1995 season with
losses in EWPA playoffs

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
water polo team pulled off a stun-
ning upset earlier this season
when they knocked off peren-
nial Eastern power Navy, 16-15,
back in September.

Beating the Midshipmen
again would have definitely
turned some heads.

The Generals had theirchance
when they faced the Midship-
men in the opening round of the

Eastern Water Polo Association
Southern Division Playoffs. The
Generals looked like they were
up to the challenge in the first
half as Peter Sorensen found the
back of the net in the second
quarter to knot the score at four
goals apiece.

The Navy squad, hungry for
revenge, went into the locker
room and reloaded.

The Midshipmen hit the Gen-
erals with a twenty-goal barrage
that put the match out of reach.
W&L failed to answer any of
Navy’s scores and the final count
stood at 24-4.

The Generals moved to the
consolation round where they lost
21-10 to Slippery Rock and 18-8
to George Washington.

Junior James Silberstein led
the Generals in the scoring col-
umn, netting three goals in each
of the two consolation games.

Senior Rich Cober scored in
all three games of the tournament
for Washington and Lee. Cober
also added a pair of two point
goals.

The three losses in the tourna-
ment ended the Generals’ 1995
season with a ﬁnal overall record
of 10-12.

sion for striving for perfection,
that passion for totally enjoying
the experience of playing the
game of football. We will al-
ways keep him in the program in
spirit,” Miriello said.

Miriello was part of Fallon’s
first coaching staff at W&L, as
an assistant offensive line coach
from 1978-1981.

After moving on to coaching
positions at Hampden-Sydney,
VMI, and two Pennsylvania high
schools, Miriello returned to

' Washington and Lee in 1990,

where he was named defensive
coordinator one year later.

Last season, Miriello's unit
led the ODAC in scoring and
pass defense.

Though it has been a difficult
year for the coaches and players
in many ways, Miriello has been
pleased with and has appreci-
ated everyone’s performance.

Miriello received another
good perfonnance from his team
last Saturday. The Generals de-
feated Bridgewater, 24-13, for

their fourth straight victory, rais-
ing their season mark to 4-2-1.

The winless Eagles (0-8)
shocked the crowd of 5,000 by
blocking a W&L punt in the ﬁrst
quarter, and scoring a touchdown
to take the early 7-0 lead.

That was the last lead for
Bridgewater as the Generals ex-
ploded for 17 points in the sec-
ond quarter. J .P. Josephson, who
rushed fora career-high 97 yards,
scored one of the touchdowns.

The Eagles would not go down
easily, as they cut the lead to 17-
13 early in the fourth quarter, but
Chas Chastain ran in a score from
eleven yards out to ice the game.

Guilford visits W&L tomor-
row. The Quakers, who dropped
a thrilling 13-7 contest to the
Generals last year, have endured
a rough 3-4 season thus far.

For the remaining two weeks
of the season, Miriello hopes to
see continued consistency and
productivity of the offense as well
as a strong performance by the
veteran_defensive unit.

Women’s soccer falls in
ODAC semiﬁnal game

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

the first half to take a 3-0 lead over the shocked

Generals into the intermission.

Although the ODAC Tournament did not

Hathom was “stunned” by Roanoke’s tor-
rent of goals.
“The game was so close up to that point that

we were overwhelmed when that happened.”

W&L could not recover.

The Generals

prove to be the overwhelming success that the
Generals hoped for, there is no reason for
disappointmentoverthc women’ssoccerteam’s
performance in 1995.

W&L finished with its second consecutive
ten-win season at 10-6 overall after dropping a
4-0 semifinal match to Roanoke this past Fri-
day at Randolph-Macon College. The Gener-
als’ ten victories was just one win off their
record pace of eleven wins, which was estab-
lished in 1990.

The Generals opened the quarterfinal round
of the ODAC Tournament last Tuesday with a
tense 1-0 shutout of Guilford at the Liberty Hall
Fields. The game remained in a scoreless
deadlock until only
twenty minutes were

played Roanoke tough in the second half, but
the Maroons punched home a final goal to
prevail, 4-0, and advance to the finals.

Although the season finished on a down
note, the young squad produced many positive
results. Bauman notched fourteen goals and six
assists on the season to total 34 points. The
junior has already broken the career points
record with her 71 points, on 28 goals and 15
assists, in only three seasons.

An extremely pleasant surprise this season
for the Generals was the play of their freshman
class. ln fact, freshman Karin Treese was the
team’s leading scorer, as she combined her
fourteen goals and ten assists to tally 38 points.

Freshmen Caroline
Keen, Katherine

left, when junior Mich-
elle Baumanconvened
on sophomore
Lorraine Taurassi’s
breakaway assist to
provide the Generals
with the only goal that
they would need.
Junior goalie Beth
Mozena pitched the
shutout for the Gener-

    

Nichols, and Nicole
Johnson were a few of
the other outstanding
freshmen contributors.
Hathom com-
mented that she was
“extremely pleased”
with the performance
of her young players.
“Since we’re very
young, we’re learning
what it takes to be de-

als by fending off four
Guilford shots.

The victory over
Guilford proved to be

W&L was bounced in the
ODACs, but still finished 10-6.

We Ph°‘° voted and committed ”
she said.
Washington and

Lee will lose four se-

especially sweet for
W&L,consideringthat
the Generals were coming off two heartbreak-
ing one-goal losses the weekend before against
the College of Notre Dame and Centre.

Beating Guilford “felt great”, according to
head coach Jan Hathom. “All three were pretty
hard-fought games.”

The Generals came out Friday determined
to fight conference nemesis Roanoke in the
ODAC Tournament semifinal round, and they
kept in stride with the Maroons forthe ﬁrst forty
minutes. But all of a sudden, Roanoke un-
leashed a barrage of three goals near the end of

niors to graduation
from a team which is predominated by fresh-
men and sophomores.

The sight of Treese, Mozena, Taurassi, and
sophomore Erica Reineke, not to mention the
record-setting exploits of Bauman, will be sure
to send a shiver down the spine of other ODAC
opponents for the next several seasons.

Hathorn expresses similar excitement over
the Generals’ future potential.

“I have all kinds of confidence about their
growth, and that they’ll continue to improve,”
the coach remarked.

 

-H‘

«Y

X

_h

 

 

