.'~'2?JZ<'aia3 ‘7’ Li?» I 244‘. l.-itvLs'7..»°v.‘r"i‘/

L * ’l , Xl'’‘.>’"_) w.~.s:;»>uas:aso;ruttnumssT'v’
5; l-9.’r¢"f€!‘r.";P.~4 VA aunt.
: - I"~ .7 :‘- 
_   1;. s.2a.t

 
  


FRIDATI Mostly sunny, highs, 
‘ ‘ i tearat nightwith 

 
      

  

‘SA 7’__   Mostly sunny,
59h$iﬁ;.....‘99m59'5"¢‘93 I I

  men's basketball
"s't1t\tt1)str.;iPan;yotoudy;Si»A‘   3 ’eadies  

Uh   ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

   
   
   

if

VOLUME 96, N0. 14

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

File Photo

Washington and Lee spent another week under a frigid blanket of snow this week. Temperatures dipped
below freezing prompting many to Wonder when Spring will spring.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 9, 1996

W&L instructor
arrested on
cocaine charges

BY DANIELLE BURGHARDT, DARCEY
LIVINGSTON, and DAN ODENWALD
Of the The Ring-tum Phi

Kurt Russ, a Washington and Lee research
assistant and archaeology instructor, was ar-
rested Monday for conspiracy to distribute co-
caine. Russ graduated from W&L in 1978 and
is considered one of the foremost experts in
local historical archaeology.

Russ was suspended by the University with-
out pay. He was released by police on a $5,000
bond.

At a press conference Tuesday afternoon
held in the W&L’s Mattingly House, Director
of Communications Brian Shaw announced the
arrest. The Rockbridge Regional Drug Task
Force concluded a two year investigation of a
major drug trafﬁcking ring this week with the
arrest.

The Drug Task Force comprises the Buena
Vista Police Department, the Lexington Police
Department, the Rockbridge County Sheriff’s
Ofﬁce and the Virginia State Police.

The investigation identiﬁed ﬁve men as
being involved — Russ (Lexington, Va.), Tho-

mas Davis (Rockbridge County), a former W&L
Buildings and Grounds employee, William
Gossman (Raleigh, N. C.), a former W&L
student, Andrew Jones (Charlotte, N. C.), and
Eric Jamison (Miami, Fl.).

According to the Drug Task Force, the ﬁve
men were responsible for the distribution of
more than $1 million worth of cocaine from
1990 to 1994.

The nationwide drug ring originated in
Florida with the kingpin, Jamison, supplying
Lexington with approximately 250 ounces of
cocaine valued at over $1 million. Some of the
cocaine was purchased with food stamps and
Mexican currency which the police conﬁscated
when arresting those involved.

Gossman was the direct link to Russ and
Davis. After the University noted Davis’ drug
problem in 1994, he was ﬁred.

According to police accounts, Davis was
arrested in February of 1994 for being in pos-
session of nine ounces of cocaine valued at
$50,000. Davis helped the authorities nab
Gossman who in turn aided the police in the
arrest of Jamison. Both Jones and Gossman
were convicted of felony distribution of co-
caine in late 1995. Jamison is awaiting trial.

Students seek Live
Drive resurrection

someone who had smelled mari-

BY MICHAEL HEWLEIT

police sent the two canisters to the

Freshmen kicked out of dorm for marijuana

Dean of Students David

Coolio will deﬁnitely break away
from the typical Dave Matthews-
genre to add to the party atmosphere
of the weekend.

Many W&L students are skeptical
of Coolio’s appeal at W&L(or “Con—

Because Coolio will draw in fans
from outside of W&L, Jalbert urges
students to purchase their tickets ahead
oftime. SAB will sell tickets the week
prior to event at a reduced rate to the
W&L community.

  

     
  
 
 
  

  
  
 
  
  
  

  
 
 

ya to brothers and sisters,”-
White‘

 metztation. _

 
 
  

  

, _up:_em-acy in me, then there Ah‘

L supretrtacyiis the degradation of blaclebodies.” 
hi sinpretttacy has made some blacks ashamed] of their hips, '

ny. .(3iS¢tf1ssion of race has to beginwtth W.E.B;
of Black Folk. In that book, do Bots -talked about
33¢ a problernifﬂe agreed that an humanbeings have to
'21 _ people who are cast as a problem in society have an

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON

senior David Thompson was
killed in a single-car accident
two weeks ago, his blood al-
cohol level was high enough
to affect his driving skills.
“Alcohol was a definite
-factor in the accident,” said
State Trooper R.J. Noe.
Noe’ssupervisorwould not
permit Thompson’s actual
blood alcohol level to be re-

  
  

death inspired groups — like
the Interfratemity Council and

gram.

Dean of Students David
Howison was enthusiastic
about their ideas.

“There have been a lot of
positive initiatives from stu-
dents, and I’m sure we’ll be
able to move toward a good
sober driving system,” said
Howison.

W&L seniors

Cindy

is the essence of thedemocratic tradition, he said.-: A  . _
For those who are interested in that dialogue andvt t struggl
democracy, he said he will be there with ‘ ’ ’ '
“I’m going down fighting.” . ; v

. .  . *o1<ay.wt.=iie fofsett
the Anne can people who are’strug'gling:ot1 it ‘daily; 

, West. ..t;id,th_ t;eae11’generation has to renew democrat’

“If yodthittk Jyoti can rmiddle through it, you lose it.”

V ’ Americans must deal with the issue, of race. and enter auto a,

them.

“The purpose of the service
shouldn’t be to avoid a‘ D.U.l.,”

Not again." Phi Staff Writer Panhe1lenicCouncil—aswell said Atkins. “It shouldn’t be a
___:j:j as individuals to discuss de— way to get knee-walking drunk
When Washington and Lee veloping a sober driving pro- and not worry about the conse-

quences.”

According to IFC President
Ryan Connolly, fraternities are
not required to have sober driv-
ers at their parties.

However, Connolly said so-
ber drivers may soon be re-
quired at fraternity parties.

The IFC would request the
drivers’ names when each fra-
ternity registers for a party.

   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
       
 
   
   

 

 

‘ K juana smoke emanating from one drug lab in Roanoke County in Howison said that since the Uni- -
Phi Associate Editor of the dorm rooms.When security Salem, Va. The lab work should versity Drug Policy was put into |eaSSei:§gr1El:g(:1(;’V:§nr,:a:(;:ih Ié:tg}le;?i’nel\4Ci)gStal:$](:)e‘fv’ar::r:g  ?:eI:§,t;1:§nIl;e;k:(S’:::
arrived, they asked O’Connelland take SIX to eight weeks. Coleman place ﬁve years ago, ten students on January 29 numerous Stu_ Stan up a Service Similar to the drivers were there and s0_
Two freshmen were found with Hurst if they had smoked mari- believes the students had about 2- have been kicked out of the dorms ’ - - - .
marijuana by Washington and Lee juana and ifthey had any more. 3 grams. Both O’Connell and for using marijuana, which in- ggggsggegrugriglggtﬁgzlgiﬁ LIV-lehlzrniilieved pan of the berifthe drivers violated these
4 Security at 3 a.m. Sunday, Jan._27. Thestudentswerecooperative, Hurst have been charged with eludes 9 freshmen and 1 upper- isuatorsto discuss the imple_ reason {Jive Drive failed was stipulationsﬁhefmtemitv could
Thestudents,IsisCalculus K1rby- andW&Lsecurityconﬁscatedtwo possession ofmarijuana, which is classmen. Also, three students memation of a Sober driving becausenoonevvamedtodﬁve be ﬁned or puton SOcialpmba_
O’Connell and Laura Hurst, were 35mmﬁlmcanistersofmarijuana, amisdemeanor. have been kicked outof fraternity program the large vans tion.
subsequently kickedout of Baker which were turned over to the The case was also turned over housingbecauseofmarijuanause. Washington and Lee did SO, they vvam to Stan a SinceTh0mpsonvvaskmed,
~  :21.       a        
Y .“-°’~ - . .. 'd'hl hl ' an ldh b
O’Connell and Hurst still attend Drug Task Force consists of the White said they are investigating Theuniversitytumsoverall drugs umig {-6 as‘ SC 09 year’ people Voiun-teerthelr cars as thin- ‘ nota tea y ave so cf
classes and eat their meals in the Buena Vista Police Department, the incident but could say nothing found to the Rockbridge Area t1)3t94"fa(lj1l 81:33; ed during the :;;lL::;;f)l£;T§'StEg§:g:3{;§ grslgéggofrgigslgllgsegaZ;a:j::_
Evans Dining Hall. the Lexington Police Department, more. She addedthat the SCC will Drug Task.Forc.e. All cases in- “Live Drive; failed because are willing to do both. mg One_
~ m.'?§Et"}o?‘?t§lZ“;ZI§f”“’d ‘° g°  ‘$‘?a‘§2’Z‘§%’1i§°v‘f§’g‘§E§Z§.';T£‘i3£ iZ‘g‘§t‘§‘y'§1e°.?."§$‘l§’?J'{i.'; §¥.’.‘3i.§i‘§ §?l§L"%.§“§Z§.’fSé§ ?L“‘3E2‘Ssé'2:‘7 °f 3 ‘a°.k °f 53?“ ASS°°‘="*=D“"9fS*"d°"‘S “W” 3 S‘““°"‘ dies °”'-
_ f S ‘ .t M. h 6] 1. b t .t does!“ necessaril affec; Usuall the Students are ut on Executive Committee Pres1- and Greek Affairs Leroy cohol, everyone must feel a
Dlrecim 0 ecimdy lllcf 3 Ice‘ . £1 1 1. y b .y’ P dent Keith Benedict. “There “Buddy”Atkinssaid he iswor- sense of responsibility because
Young Sald they receive aca rom Ofﬁcer Gary Coleman said the t e ru mg. pro ation. was no student interest}, ﬂed a Sober driving program it deem’, haveto bethatwav,»
V However, Thompson’s will breed irresponsibility. said Atkins.
" C 1' t l FD
Th d y ' h
. urs a mg t
servative Hell,” as referred to by an
BY KELLEY TQTTEN anonymous junior).
P '1' Sim Wm“ “I’m curious to see who will get
,, the larger crowd: Newt or Coolio?”
“Been spendin’ most your life sophomore Amanda Robson said.
livin’ in the Gangsta’s Paradise...” - Others had never heard of his hip-
not exactly alyrictowhichthe major- hop tunes Or eccentric hair.
ity of W&L students can relate. Rap— “lf’s he’s one of those totally funky
per Coolio will bring his act to the guys, he might be a little let down by
‘V Pavillon for Fancy Dress Weekend. the W&L audience,” said junior
Coolio will earn $17,000 enter- Katherine Sawyer. .  —
taining the W&Lcrowd on Thursday Coolio ﬁrst hit the charts in Fall ,  ~ »  » ~ -  . .~  ;. .- ~ . V _ H _ _ _
March 21. SAB treasurerPeteJalbert 1994 with his “Fantastic Voyage.” {Si (A v 2 that {S3-ue'sa,e1:r-acialgzed in owe, to pojargze the mags; f I L ‘ p 
said the brou ht in the act, who has He has since gained popularity with 2 .  . » » ~ .'~‘ ‘ ". - “Since.3968,we’ve seex:theassoeiatio_x_1_with he! in tttedisenfranc
, Y 8 . . h. . d f _ mg and oo-wrote a boot: witit.T:kkun . . . .,,   P, 8
1-: gamed DJ-party popularity with “is movie sou track suc_ce§ses 0 ~ ed. e,§,s:,,ndB;“ck;,:Le,_,heHealmgBégin;»rmsvisit Wlfhi|.8!})ll1gblaCkS..- »  . A . _.  :-- j 
Gangstwspamdige to add d,,,e,S,,y_ Rollln With the Homles from ._t_h Mi gsmden-mssociatim. D5,,h_O§g,u§,,n,5,w&L Hectted aftirmattveactionandwetfareasexamples.Heisaidpeop 
“l’m lad he’scomin ;atleastitis “Clueless” and “Gangsta’ Paradise” ' , - - , - ’ ‘ . v - ~ " the fact that the rimarybeneficiaries ofafﬁrmative actionjtavelyee 53;

3 .g .. . ,, Reitgtott H1¥lel.StudentAettvittes, Dean of . . P .. . . - . . .  _ ..
somethingdifferent/’said sophomore from Dangerous Minds. ‘dent?-Qgbd  __ f    . I  I femaies or that empmcaiiy, ’whttes‘make upath m8}Ofkt}¥ o be p!
Jennifer Murphy. “I hope it is some- Skee-lo, who begs for heighth in .   r  7”‘ 1’  " 3 ~ . .   ' wetfare. if ' V  . '1  3' ..

,_ thing everyone can get into.” the MTV favorite “I Wish,”will0Pen. pe“lm.1st .3130   ' '  ' _ y‘ it xc;dtsct1sszo1t,v

in

  

 

diatogué

 
   
 

 

 
 

 

PAGE 2 The Ring-tum Phi, Februgx 9, l99§ )

BEYOND

THE BLUE RIDGE

 

U.S.-China relations
deteriorate

U.S. relations with China continue to deteriorate as a series of intelli-
gence reports on China’s arms shipments to terrorist nations add to the
tension of China’s threatened use of force against Taiwan.

Intelligence reports recently made public show shipments of anti-ship
cruise missiles from China to Iran, shipments of specialized magnets used
in the production of uranium for nuclear weapons to Pakistan, and ship-
ments of crated Chinese-made missiles, also to Pakistan. Under the 1994
Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Act , President Clinton must now decide
whether to impose trade sanctions, such as blocking loan guarantees made
by the U.S. Export-Import Bank, or to formally waive the sanctions for a
lack of conclusive information. Many officials say that the information
contained in the reports is very strong, but that the decision to impose
sanctions on China would affect several major American companies, as
well.

Plan approved to move
welfare and Medicaid to
states

Washington, D.C.-At the end of their three day meeting, the National
Governors’ Association unanimously approved a plan to put the manage-
ment of Welfare and Medicaid into the hands of the states.

Supporters of the plan say that state-run Medicaid and Welfare pro-
grams would maintain the quality of service while removing the bureau-
cratic system of federal control over state administration of the programs.

Political leaders in Congress and in the White House are calling this
compromise a very positive move away from the partisan bickering over
the programs which has been a central problem in the attempt to approve
a balanced budget plan. However, both Congress and the White House have
questions about whether the states will be able 0 continue to provide service
to all the recipients of federal welfare and would commit only to hearings
and extensive consideration of the new plan.

Tagliabue asks for NFL
anti-trust exemption

Washington, D.C.-In a hearing before a House Judiciary Committee,
NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue asked for an anti—trust exemption for
the NFL in order to end franchise moves.

After five franchise moves in the last year, Commissioner Tagliabue
insists that the only way in which he can enforce NFL rules against the
uprooting of franchises is with an exemption from the anti—trust laws which
allow owners and states to sue when the NFL will not allow a team to move
to a new community. The state of Maryland recently filed a suit against the
NFL for extensive damages if the Browns are not permitted to move from
Cleveland to Baltimore. Tagliabue says that when faced with the cost of
paying reparations to disgruntled states and owners, the NFL cannot
enforce its legislation against relocation.

Reagan turns 85

Los Angeles-Ronald Reagan became the fifth president to turn 85 on
Tuesday. His birthday was celebrated with a party at Chasen’s restaurant’s
in Hollywood, where he proposed to wife, Nancy. Reagan supporters made
donations of $85 or more to the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation,
and Republican senators called from their lunch meeting to sing “Happy
Birthday” to the President. Reagan was unfortunately unable to attend the

festivities due to his Alzheimer’s disease. ‘

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

GOP WATCH

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Buchanan wins Lousiana

Pat Buchanan won a decisive victory over Phil Gramm in the Feb. 6
Louisiana caucus. Buchanon’s win has dealt a potentially fatal blow to
Gramm’s chances for the Republican presidential nomination. Gramm
stated on Wednesday that if he does not have at least a third place showing
in next week’s lowas caucus, he will bow out of the race. The Louisiana
caucus was not attended by the two front-runners Bob Dole and Steve
Forbes who deferred to Iowa’s first—in—the-nation caucus status. Neverthe-
less, Buchanan’s win in Louisiana positions him as the conservative
alternative to Dole and Forbes.

Dole gears up for Iowa caucus

In preparation for next week’s Iowa caucus (Feb. 12), the Dole cam-
paign has bought 138 television spots which is signiﬁcantly more than the
number Steve Forbes has bought. The Iowa caucus is critical for the Dole
campaign since he is now in second place to Forbes in New Hampshire
according to a recent Dartmouth College poll. The poll, however, indicated
also that the race is still very close and no clear front runner has emerged
yet.

GOP Watch is compiled
by Laura Knapp
Chec out Moc Conv nticgi’ web ite:
http: www.moc con.w u.e u?~moc con/

Elrod says honor, civility, truth bind W&L

Bv MELISSA BYRD
Phi Staff Writer

sation.”

For President John Elrod, Washing-
ton and Lee’s future is told in the teach-

ings of historic intellectuals.

Elrod told almost 40 students and
faculty members Tuesday night that
concepts such as honor, civility, and
truth-seeking provide the stability and
consistency seen at W&L throughout

its history.

“When you’re thinking about edu-
cation, you can’t forget about charac-

ter,” Elrod said.

Men like Alexis de Toqueville and
Robert E. Lee understood that respect
for one another as rational and free
individuals, and a constant search for
knowledge strengthen and enrich an

academic community.

Elrod said the school’s encourage-
of conversation was important

ment
in building character.

“Education is essentially about one
thing: conversation. If you look in on
the Colonnade from God’s perspec-
tive, you will see talk, talk and more

the art of conversation.

“We need to continue to make our
conversation here as sophisticated, re-
fined and appropriately complex as we
possibly can. It shapes your mind,” he

said.
Elrod said he would

greater variety of students and faculty

at W&L.

this.”

We will all stick together because
we will all have an allegiance to those
things that have held this school to-
gether for so long: honor, civility and

truth.”

talk. lt’s talk that does it. Something
almost miraculous happens in conver- .

Elrod said the students are prepared
for life after W&L because they know

“We need more ethnic, economic,
and cultural diversity. We live in a
community here, and we need to think
more, longer, and harder about what
that means,” he said. “In an increas-
ingly heterogeneous world where
people are pulling farther and farther
apart from one another, we can at least
make sure our community is not like

like to see a

I President Elrod discussed his vision for W&L Tuesday

On the other side of the footbridg 

 

BY TARAH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

 

We need to begin with,
heaven forbid, The Rule. Open
your handbooks to Rule VI,
Rules of Criminal Procedure.
We see under Section III...’’

It’s 2:00 p.m. on a Thurs-
day afternoon. On the other
side of the footbridge, Profes-
sor William Greimer is start-
ing his Criminal Procedure
class. In front of him students
open their textbook, The
Criminal Procedure, TheP0st-
Investigative Process, and take
outthe profession’strademark
yellow paper pad almost si-
multaneously.

No obligation of secrecy
may be imposed on any person
except in accordance with this
rule. So it may be worthwhile
to see whom is bound by this
secrecy requirement.” When
Greimer pauses, the sound of
pens piously scribbling down
his words creates an intermit-
tent hum.

Kevin Batteh, a first year
law student, gazes past the pro-

"A‘-iknow D.'I‘.,”. vsaid, Be
 {Theta Pi fgaternity broth
 ‘and; lacrosse’ teamtna , _

   

I you ‘for’. making a Vdiffe
, ence, for beingﬁe good
- friend, for making us bet-I

’ ter people,” Stagnitta said, .

_;“Your friends wilt never
 fforget you.” V _
 . £ThepewsofLeeChape‘l
g_ *;,_were packed Tuesdayeafs
"iternoon with members;
‘the administration, faculty,
Beta’ Theta Pi,‘ men’si la-
jcrosse team, _‘\(,;M,I.g<:adet

corps,‘and stuiientbod ‘
.:, 5 Thompson was..t;1I;led
 inacaraccidenttwoweeks
“ - ago; A native ofﬂﬁalti»

   
  

iast year. He was 22 years
old. a

I were moved by the memo-

   
 
 
    
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 

   
  

‘ more, Maryland, Thump‘-. . willV%?b
son was recipient of they

Scholar/Athlete Award -A  ' I pe

 

V V _  tionstobemade t‘o.‘W&
. Those who attended?»

. ries shared by Stagnitta and .
Croft who remembered .
Thompson as a resilient

 Stag_rtitta.Where theftinds
I will be used will bed: ’
mined at a'r‘l_ater"‘date. .

fessor through the window. A
few pine branches frame a pic-
turesque view of the
Shenandoah mountains. They
beckoned Batteh to come to
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity five years ago. As a senior
in high school, he knew he

, wanted a small liberal arts col-

lege with “an excellent aca-
demic reputation and that had
lots of mountains and rivers
around it.” He thought about
attending law school one day
but didn’t set any specific
goals. _

According to the admis-
sions office, in an average year,
approximately one third of the
members of each freshmen
class indicate their intention to
attend law school. However,
by the time they need to regis-
ter for the LSATs, many have
found other paths. Maybe a
general education requirement
in natural sciences brought out
their passion for geology. Per-
haps participating in a play in
the Lenfest center sucked them
into the drama department and
now have Broadway aspira-
tions. Even more reconsider

   



  
  
   
 
 
  

be

in David’s name at 
quest ofhis mother;-‘sat

 

THE RING-TUM PHI.’
WHAT WOULD ‘YOU DO WITHOUT IT?

\

 

their decision to attend law
school when they receive the
results of their LSATs. A hand-
ful of students, however, end
up applying to W&L’s School
of Law.

According to Assistant
Dean of the Law School Susan
Palmer, W&L undergrads en-
joy several advantages in the
law school admissions process.
“We have great respect for the
quality of the undergraduate
education you receive on our
front campus,” explained
Palmer. “We know that you
are in small classes, where you
are asked to read complex
materials, analyze them
closely, participate in class-
room dialogue, and write.”

The number of W&L
undergrads who attend the
W&L Law School varies from
year to year, from a low of 2 to
a high of 10 in the years be-
tween 1986 and 1995. There
were 6 W&L undergrads in
the 1995 entering law class.

I decided to stay at W&L
when I opened the letter that
said I had been accepted,” said
Batteh. “On the whole, I am
glad that I stayed. W&L is a
great place to study law even if
you have in Lex for 4 years.
Did I mention the law school is
even smaller than the
undergrad?”

Lewis Hall, consisting of
ﬁve major classrooms, small
seminar rooms, and a Moot
Court Room, is one of the
smallest accredited law schools
in the nation. The School of
Law accommodates 380 stu-
dents and 30 professors.
W&L’s size has many advan-
tages including personal atten-
tion from professors.

Greimer picks his first vic-
tim.

Miss Hodge. I didn’t get a
chance to call on you yester-
day. See I was up latelast
night...”

I was too,” Elizabeth Hodge
responds quickly with a dim
hope that witty response may
let her escape. The students
laugh; so does Greimer.

Great. There I was up late
last night and I thought I had to
find someone in a similar situ-
ation...”

Greimer, like many profes-
sors in law school, practices
the Socratic teaching method.
The professor randomly
chooses a student to whom he
asks a series of questions. The
interrogation lasts from 10-50
minutes depending on the pro-
fessor.

“Basically, it’s just you and
the professor, one on one, in
front of a class—full of very
intelligent people,” explained
Batteh. “He asks the questions
and you provide the answers.
It is always nerve racking at
first.”

Why is the grand jury pro-
cess kept secret?” Greimer asks
Hodges.

Batteh remembers the first
time he met Professor Greimer.
Batteh was an undergrad work-
ing on a paper for a philosophy
class. Professor Ramsey Mar-
tin recommended that he talk
to Greimer about the paper as
it dealt with his area of exper-
tise. Later that afternoon,
Batteh entered Lewis Hall for
the first time and introduced
himself to Greimer.

He spent 45 minutes talk-
ing with me—about my paper.
I think that’s typical W&L.”

The close relationships that
develop between professors
and their students is a trade-
mark of both the undergrad
and the law school. For the
past two years, The National
Jurist, a magazine for law stu-
dents, did a ranking based
solely on current students’ as-
sessments of their schools and
ranked W&L#1 in student sat-
isfaction with academics, fac-
ulty,’ and facilities. Last year’s
U.S. News survey ranked
W&L Law School 21st na-
tionwide. Princeton Review
ranked it 19th.

Looking at E and 3, how is
information disclosed?” No-
body responds. “Nobody
knows? Okay, you’ll get the
APLA Dull Statutory Text
award if you find an answer...”

Batteh leans back in his
chair and glances at the female
student sitting next to him,
Andrea Mosely.

“I better not get called on,”
whispers Mosely. Batteh
smiles and then stretches into
a yawn. He was out late the
night before at the Bela Fleck
concert.

Mosely remembers her first
impression of Batteh.

He was such a sweet guy
but he looked like the devil,”
she laughs, remembering the
goatee he spotted at the begin-
ning of the year.

Batteh adjusts the bill on
his orange cap, which appears
to be held together with duc-
tape.

“The Clemson hat has been
through a lot,” he explained.
“Actually I am sponsored by
the team, Duck Tape; they pay
me to wear this.”

Combined with a
Headbangers’ Ball t-shirt from
a 1993 fraternity party, a denim

jacket, baggy pants, and hik-
ing shoes, Batteh doesn’t
model the stereotypical ward-
robe of a soon-to-be lawyer.

The generic descriptions
only go so far,” said Batteh.
“There is nothing ‘typical’
about W&Lstudents. We have
many ‘smart’ students at
W&L, but it’s good to see that
we still have talented students
as well. I have friends in the

law school who have raised
children, run businesses, prac-
ticed medicine, worked for the
secret service, been accoun-
tants, wasted away on the
slopes of Vale, guided rafts,
taught high school and so many
other things.”

“As we can see in 6B 1...”

Batteh ﬂips the page in his
book and starts to underline.

“Challenges shall be made
before the administration of
the oath to the jurors and shall
be tried by the court...”

Batteh doesn’t know what
challenges lie ahead of his life;
he’s still undecided on what
kind of law he will practice.
The law school certainly
doesn’t lack in alumni role
models though. Five presidents
of the American Bar Associa-
tion and five of the history’s
104 Supreme Court justices
have been W&Lalumni as well
as a number of state Supreme
Court justices and federal and
state judges in every region.

“That’s another angle we
missed. We’llf1nish up on the
Bank of Nova Scotia tomor-
row.”

The students pack up their
belongings to go to their next
class. After their classes are
over, they work to prepare for
the next day’s classes.

“I think most students read
through the material some-
times several times until it be-
comesveryclear,”saidBatteh.
“Often students will brief the
cases they read. This entails
preparing a summary of the
facts of the cases, identifying
the main issue and how the
court reasoned to a decision on
that issue.”

The students were not un-
aware of the workload that law
school would entitle. Batteh
often reflects on how much his
life has changed since he
crossed the footbridge. He en-
joyed life as an undergrad and
misses the time that he had to
pursue extracurricular inter-
ests.

“That’s not to say I don’t
get out now and then. I just
don’t get out as much,” said
Batteh. “At the same time, I
feel like I’ve learned a great
deal already. Law school gives
you one more way to look at
the world and analyze prob-
lems and situations. I guess
it’s a tradeoff of sorts.”

Bettah tightens the straps
on his black and purple
bookbag to head to his next
class and then to his carrel in
the library to study. A friend
gives him a high-five as he
leaves the room. “Hey Kevin,
are you still having people over
tonight?” she asks. “Yeah,”
Bettah responds. Afterall,this
is W&L. Even studying is a
good excuse for a party.”

Mock Con picks Louisiana winner

BYEMILY BAKER

Phi Executive Editor

pers predicted Gramm.

“We found out ahead of most people,” Elkins
said. “They called us from the victory party in

The Louisiana delegation of the Mock Con-
vention correctly predicted Pat Buchanan ’s vic-
tory in the Feb. 6 Louisiana caucus.

The delegation based its decision on infor-
mation from political contacts in Louisiana and
the Buchanan campaign., such as political con-
sultants, professors of political science and

campaign insiders.

“We E-mailed them, sent them surveys,
basically stayed in constant contact with them,”
said Louisiana state chairman Will Elkins.
Mock Con appeared to be the only body that
correctly predicted Buchanan over his oppo-

nent Phil Gramm.

“Everybody predicted Phil Gramm would
win. All the polls out and editorials in newspa-

Baton Rouge.”

“We were pretty excited. It feels good to be

of speakers.

right when everyone else is wrong.”

Last week Mock Con received confirmation
that Rep. Tom DeLay (R—TX) and Republican
National Committee Chairman Haley Barbour
will join the convention’s already extensive list

‘‘I think this is the best line of speakers

we’ve ever had, said Andrew Olmem, chair-

man of the platform committee.

His committee this week finished work on
the Republican platform to be debated during
the convention. Welfare and social security top
the issues of the platform.

“We tried to follow the actual process the

Olmem said.

Republicans follow in writing the platform,’

 

ll“ w&

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 

:5 

   

I
1 I 6

Page 3

 

.'
2
O
2
I
.

4

‘ Cindie Young
; Phi Features Editor

V To the cliche if ﬁtting line “heaven and hell and everything in between” one cast member adds “and
a red sequin dress,” describing the W&L Theatre Department’s latest production, Faust.

V The students behind W&L’s Faust have indeed dressed the play in ’90s clothes, with such modern
adaptations as the use of what is now everyday language, the background of the beach for God and

His angels, and the setting of a rave bar for other characters.

The origins of the play lie in a seminar taught last year by Al Gordon, Professor of Theatre and
current director of Faust. In his course, Gordon presented students with scenes from older versions

of the Faust legend, and then rewrote them for a modern audience.

The older scripts from which the students worked include Goethe’s original version, those of
Christopher Marlowe (Doctor Faustus) and Vaclav Havel (Temptation), and even the Broadway

musical “Damn Yankees.”

“Most of my colleagues looked at me slightly askance when I told them I was going to direct a
production of Faust,” Director and Professor Al Gordon admits. “I started out thinking I would

deconstruct the orignial script.”

But after much interaction with students and collaboration with Professor Robert Youngblood of
the German Department, Gordon feels that this year’s Faust will overall be faithful to its predecessors.
“[Gordon] did a lot of polishing,” Phaedra Cianciulli (God) recalls of the modernized versions
turned in by herself and other students, and this year’s production indeed promises to present an

imaginative and fresh - and polished - approach to a well-established plot.

The aim of this newest version has been “to preserve the essential elements of the [Faust] legend,
while making it more accessible to the audience,” Gordon comments in a press release.

While casting of the play fell during the month of November, and the actors attended one “read—
through” before Christmas Break, the bulk of the effort behind Faust has occurred in the past few weeks

of this term.

And not without setbacks. The generous portion of snow allotted Lexington in recent memory “cost
a week of building,” estimates cast member Megan Johnson (Monkey). “We didn’t get onto a set until

two weeks ago.”

However recently assembled, the set will be elaborate nonetheless, with one structureas high as
what a cast member guesses to be 27 feet, and many more set pieces that roll on and off the stage.
Master electrician Eric Sproul, reﬂecting on the intricacy of the set, describes the show as “a pretty

tech-y kind of show.”

“A lot of special things need to happen,” Sproul readily admits, but he is conﬁdent that they will,

assuming no catastrophe.

Not only lighting but sound and electrical arrangements, the teching of the show, and the actual
acting are all accomplishments solely of a dedicated group of students, with members of the faculty
holding only the positions of director, set designer and costume designer of the production.

On the night before the curtain rises on W&L’s own Faust, a general enthusiasm emanates from

tech and actor, designer and dresser alike.

Cast member Dan Tipton predicts “a very visually pleasing show,” praise that technician James

Christovich reinforces with his promise of “a lot of special effects.”

The efforts of so many students, and also of the participating faculty members, should indeed
combine in a production stimulating not only to eye but to - and in - every other sense as well.
Faust will run through this weekend and early next week. For more information on ticket

availability or show times, contact the Lenfest Box Office at 463-8000.

 

Costume extravaganza

KURT SUSONG
PHI REv|EwER

Restoration — ﬁr 1/2
A Restoration is essentially one big
,excuse to employ all the costume and
set designers in Hollywood. This is
beautiful and interesting for about the
first twenty minutes, but then the awful
script begins to bore us. Before I knew

it, I was busy daydreaming; and there’s

no reason I should pay five dollars just
for an excuse to daydream.
Restoration follows the exploits of

tone Robert Merivel (Robert Downey,

Jr.), an intelligent but poor doctor in
largely superstitious seventeenth-cen-
tury England. His courage and origi-
. nality are soon noticed by King Charles
; II (Sam Neill), and he is whisked away
from his friends in the poorly-lit hospi-
tals to the King’s Court. However,

_ Merivel is adventurous in more ways

than just intellectually, and he is soon
dragged down into sensual distractions
of the Court.

At the same time, the King needs to
hide one of his mistresses, the gor-
geous Lady Celia (Polly Walker); he
decides the easiest way to do this is to
arrange a paper marriage as a perfect
cover for his her. Naturally, Merivel is
given the job of becoming the ‘hus-
band’ of Celia. He is then sent off to a
country house so that this farce of a
marriage is safely beyond most
people’s gaze.

However, Merivel promptly does
the one thing the King forbade: fall in

lisabetli Cutler at GHQ

love with the woman who is supposed
to be his wife in name only. As a result
he sinks into disfavor with the King,
and the rest of the movie is the story of
his fall from andretum to grace.

Precisely as you might expect, the
screenwriter (Rupert Walters) has
thrown in so many silly metaphors and
grandiose ideas the entire plot is quickly
lost in a haze of overstatement.

Every action is trite and easily fore-
cast. If a seventh-grader were writing
a story about spiritual redemption, he
would undoubtedly throw in all the
neat tricks that we see here. A prime
example is that by the end of the film
Merivel saves the very woman who
refused to love him.

Even the director (Michael
Hoffman) is a party to the absurdity, as
this scene is filmed exactly as another
scene at the beginning of the ﬁlm — as
if we needed to be reminded or literally
shown just how far Merivel has come.
The result is absolutely not inspiring,
but sickening.

At least you’d think this film, unlike
so many in the theaters today, does
justice to its characters, instead of treat-
ing them as simply pawns on the board
of action. But Restoration fails there
as well.

We never care about these people,
and we are never given a reason to care.
Merivel is thrown to us, and we are
expected to like him immediately. As
if this weren’t impossible enough
given the poor development, there is
another problem with the good
doctor’s character.

The centerpiece of the movie is

played by none other than Robert
Downey, Jr. There is probably no actor
in Hollywood I find less interesting
or magnetic.

His face is contorted into a per-
petual smirk, so his ‘serious mo-
ments’ look just like a real jackass
pretending to be serious for a moment
before revealing his true apathy to
your problem.

Luckily, some of the supporting
actﬁs are quality. Sam Neil] is won-
de Ily ﬁckle and condescending as
King CharlesII,whileboth Hugh Grant
and Meg Ryan perform admirably in
two, peculiar supporting roles.

Those few bright point aside, Res-
toration is a set designers dream. Ev-
ery detail of the King’s gaudy Court
and opulent parties is reproduced
with ﬂair.

Even the dark and dirty streets and
filthy hospitals are brought right onto
the screen. Unfortunately, there is no
film to accompany the extravagances
of the sets; the result is a very uninter-
esting, very
stale, rather
predictable
movie full of
lots of colors.

Restoration
is a bad film. I
wouldn’t rec-
ommend this
for very many
occasions, un-
less, perhaps,
its to make fun
of Robert
Downey, Jr.

DAN ODENWALD
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Looking for a break from the gray dreariness

of the February snow?

Want to hear a soulful blend of refreshing and

original folk/rock/pop music?

Then, the GHQ Pub is the place for you
tonight as Elisabeth Cutler performs for the

Washington and Lee community.

Cutler is quickly gaining wide recognition
for her strong guitar playing, poetic lyrics, and

passionate performance.

Activities/Pub Committee.

begin playing at 10 p.m.

Her appearance is sponsored by the Student
Admission is free and Cutler is scheduled to

The Pub was established this fall as an alterna-
tive to Lexington ’s stagnatin g social scene. Since
its inception, the Pub has been successful in
attracting large groups of students eager to escape
the monotony of fraternity parties.

Above: The devil (Zach Hanks)
tempts Faust (Drew I-Iiggs) with
everlasting youth, power and
pleasure. Right: Wrath (Matt
Kirby—Smith) and Envy (Maria
Hardin) share a shady moment.
Photos courtesy of Louise Uffleman

  

§Faust opens tonight

  

 

COURTNEY E. MILLER
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

By now I am pretty much sick to death of hearts, and
cupids, andall that lovey dovcy stuff associated with this
“couples only” holiday. So maybe I sound a little bitter, it
isn’t like I haven’t had one of those significant others for
this overrated holiday (in fact this is the first time in three
years I am single for the big V-day) what I am trying to say
is this year, my eyes have been opened I understand how
stupid, and useless this holiday seems to most ofthe W&L
students. (Gee aren’t 98% of us single?)

Anyway to get back to my point, this is the single’s
guide to making it through February 14th without puking,
or calling your ex-boyfriend in a blatant attempt to receive
flowers. (not that l’ve ever been that desperate...)

First off, find a constructive way to eat up your time.
My suggestion; write to Ricki Lake, beg to be on her show.
I’m not joking here. (Has a W&L student ever actually
appeared on Ricki?) There are lots ofgreat things she does,
ummm... setting people up with really good looking guys

The sinf
to J-"e6. 14

pulled off the streets of New York and paid to say they
would date you. Or how about those make-overs? You
know. girl goes in looking typical jeans/sweatshirt, and
then some model comes out in her place. “Doesn’t she
look fabulous folks?”

If nothing else you could beg to do a whole showjust
about W&L. Think ofthe possibilities: former student,
now archeology professor busted in million dollar co-
caine ring. Truth is stranger than fiction...

Okay, so maybe you’ve already had your fifteen
minutes of fame and are looking for something a little
more tame, with less exposure. Call MTV and dedicate
videos to your pets. Rationalize: goldfish need love too.

Go to The Source and rent some of those classic 80’s
movies, you know the movies that celebrated the Me
decade. What ever happened to that concept anyway?
Vision Quest is a must, especially if you haven’t seen it
in about 10 years. Best bonus is Madonna’s performance
in some cheesy bar. Okay I guess I have to throw in Can ’t
Buy Me Love. Only, Iwantto know whose mother would
actually own a white suede fringe outfit?

Okay, so you think I am stretching it? Nope. There is
nothing betterto help you forget red and white lovin’ than
laughing at Patrick
Dempsy.

This one is more of a
personal note, but watch
Dukes of Hazard on at 7
pm. on TNN five days a
week. Start now, a week of
“good ole boys never mean-
ing no harm” will put
Valentine’s day into per-
spective.

Throw a “Happy Hate
Day” party. It is a terrific
way to counteract those
hearts and cupids.

I really wish Hallmark
would market a line of cards
for the darker side of
Valentine’s day. Ijustcan’t
ﬁnd acard with ‘‘I hate you”
on the front and inside read-
ing “You really weren’t
worth the $1.25.”

Speaking of parties,
your life could be so much
worse. I have some close
friends who actually have
their birthdays on the
dreaded V-day.

So nothingin my snappy
guide that appeals to you?
Spend the day commiser-
ating with your friends and
blame everyone else for all
of your problems. There's
 a" do-

 

    

PAGE 4

@112 iatmg-tum lﬂlrt

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

West speaks to all

One would think Cornel West would play at
Washington and Lee as well as Hillary Rodham
Clinton would do at a radiologist’s convention.

After all, this campus is not a hotbed of radi-
cal liberalism, multi-culturalism, or rabid
affirmitve action supporters.

Knowing this, I expected few to attend West’s
lecture on race and democracy Wednesday evening
in Lee Chapel. I was wrong.

In fact, the chapel was filled with a representa-
tive gathering of W&L students, V.M.l. cadets,
Lexington residents, and faculty. More impor-
tantly, West’s message seemed to be well received
by those in attendance. What could have been an
extremely hostile audience turned out to be very
receptive and attentive.

The eminent professor of Afro-American
Studies at Harvard University won the audience
over by bringing intelligence and purpose to the
debate over racism. West spoke to the audience --
not at them. He raised the level of the discourse by
informing and not blaming. With compassion and
a sense of history, West explored the legacy of
white supremacy in the experiment of American
democracy. Therein lies his genius.

In the age of Farrakahn’s lunacy, the Supreme
Court ’s smashing of minority electoral power, and
attacks on afﬁrmitive action, West seeks to heal.

West does indeed present a disturbing picture
of the American cultural scene. Young people
suffer from the dearth of morals and the market
culture prostitutes the American ideal. But there is
cause for hope: the democratic desire to do better.

Perhaps the most moving part of West’s lec-
ture was his colorless and classless call to arms
among young people. History demonstrates that
social revolutions are manned by America’s young.

As we enter the 21st century, it is our respon-
sibility to eradicate racism from society, to raise
the level of the discussion, and to free ourselves
from the ties that bind us.

Will we ever get to the Promised Land? No
one really knows, but like West, we should all go
down ﬁghting.

-- D.O.

Quote of the Week

“Apparently, the lead was dry heaving on stage
last night.” 1

—--Student commenting on the outbreak of
sickness among the Faust cast.

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996 ..

     
   
 
    
   

   

The W&L Theater Department presentsi

    
 

RUSS

"The Devil Made Me Do It''

  

(‘Mon Kuar,
WHAT'S UIRONC.
WITH A LITTLE
MONEH’ on THE

  

. . ,. in
 \.-1‘: 54‘.
{\ 1'; 5

S

.1.“  ii
. ‘ii
tr


.’.i,;§

‘- 

Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday in the Lenfest Center

‘,4

Politics: a matter of perspective

MY VIEW
Nova Clarke, ’96

I have to admit that I succumbed to curiosity and
bought acopy of PrimaryColors. I have no idea who
the author might be, and I don’t really care———it is a
good novel. I read it in a day because once you start,
you're caught up in the story, wondering whetherthe
“scorps” (short for scorpions - the nickname for the
press corps) will ever learn all of Jack Stanton’s
secrets. I also have to admit that even if I’d missed
all the hype in the Washington Post about this book
that had to have been written by an insider because
it portrays the '92 Clinton campaign so well, I would
have thought of Clinton as I was reading it. The book
doesn’t make you want to nominate Clinton for Man
of the Year, and it is undoubtedly not a ﬂattering
portrait of Clinton, but it isn’t a negative one either.
Yes, he is pictured as a very ﬂawed person, but after
reading the book, I think one has to realize that you
aren’t going to ever ﬁnd a politician who isn’t
flawed.

Why do we expect to have a near perfect leader?
There’s been a lot of blame put on the press for
building up expectations and then completely shat-
tering them by portraying the person running for
ofﬁce asthey truly are and not an ideal. Is there really
anyone who is perfect enough to satisfy our expec-
tations—George Washington maybe, but he’s long
dead, and his actions are glossed over by the rosy
glow of history.

James Fallows in the February issue of the
Atlantic suggests that the problem of the press is
always asking how—as in, “How will this speech
affect your reelection in the year 2010?” These

aren’t the real issues. Ideally a candidate shouldn’t
be thinking about the implication of every state-
ment he makes for his future. He should be focusing
on the what—“What do you plan to do to ease the
problems of poverty in this country?” Unfortu-
nately, if we get all our political education and
candidate information from the media, we’re likely
to get an image of a candidate concerned solely

(C

Unfortunately, if we get all
our political education and
candidate information from
the media, we’re likely to get I
an image of a candidate con-
cerned solely about reelec-
tion

about reelection. I think most of us are fairly real-
istic people. We expect our candidate to be worried
about getting reelected. If he or she wasn’t, what
reason would we have to believe that he/she would
listen to us while in ofﬁce, but the press takes this
idea too far.

That is the reason why Jack Stanton or Bill
Clinton likes to stay away from the “scorps” and
maybe that’s why all of us are looking towards Iowa
and New Hampshire. There is a scene in the book
where Henry Burton is talking to Daisy, one of

Stanton’s PR people about the last night in New
Hampshire before the primary when Jack Stanton
spends hours standing in a local mall and talking to
potential voters. At that point he’s behind in the polls
and eventually comes in second, but the point was
Stanton wasn’t listening to the press and neither
were most of the voters. They were more interested
in the “what” and not “how” the result of New
Hampshire would mean for the future. Clinton is
like that too. It’s been said that he’s on a permanent
campaign. What’s wrong with that if it means the
people are getting a true picture of the candidate or
the President?

So here’s a twisted idea about why we focus so I

much attention on these two basically unrepresenta-
tive and electorally poor states. We want to be like

them, we would like to actually meet the politicians .
and ﬁnd out what they would do to solve our prob- '-
lems instead of deciding on a candidate based on his vi
stylish (or not) ads. Another option is maybe we "l
would like to trust government again. There was a 1;
whole series of articles in last week’s Washington 5
Post about the lack of trust the average citizen has in I;
the government. That’s probably a function of him/ 7;
her never meeting the “government,” i.e. his senator, '

representative, or the President. His closest contact
may be the guy he sees at the passport ofﬁce. In New

Hampshire and Iowa all of the voters are being I

overwhelmed by personal attention from the candi-
dates. So theory two is that if we can’t look the
candidates in the eye and make a choice, maybe we
can follow the example of those who have had that
opportunity.

So if you get a chance, read Primary Colors. It
will take your mind off the midterrns you have next
week, and maybe it will make you think about what
qualities you think are necessary in a politician.

Examining the economics of liberty

Gilt: ﬂing-tum ﬂirt

Executive Editors I-'_mi|y 3.3“, D.“ odgnwgtd
Associate Editor Mictnd newton
News Editor Qpﬁgigg agmgvign
Editorial Page Editor Hillary comb.
Sims Editor Scott Booltwulter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Barman

Features Editor (‘indie Young, Courtney E. Miner
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial cartoonists nut ntctmgq, ‘rm Fallgu
Business Manager Robert Nelson

Assistant Business Manager Doug (Jenner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Ame Alvord

The Ring-nan PM is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-nun Phi
comes primarily front advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The king-tun!
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofm, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week‘: edition. letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-nun Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of 170: Ring-um PM or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenhy.

The Ring-nun PM

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail pIu'@tvlu.edu

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98

Having discussed issues of foreign
policy and civil liberties in previous
columns, I will now move on to eco-
nomic issues. For, as PJ. O’Rourke
concisely put it, “Most of our liberties
have to do with money stuff.” In this
column, then, I will discuss the one
issue that concerns us all the most:
taxation.

Taxation has for centuries been
perhaps the most uncomfortable topic
in economic theory. Economists have
perpetually disputed over which sort
of tax is the most eﬁicient, or more
properly, the least inefficient. This
concern has spilled over into our mod-
ern debate over federal revenue. In
recent years, we have debated the ap-
propriateness of tariffs, the income
tax, and consumption taxes. Some
economists and politicians call for an
end to the income tax and the institu-
tion of a national sales tax or value-
added tax. Others favor a ﬂat income
tax, and some favor no taxation at all.

The reason taxation is such a slip-
pery topic is that anyone who assumes
the appropriateness of taxation cannot
come up with any kind of tax that does
not distort or burden economic activ-
ity. I will prove that distortion is
inevitable in all kinds of taxation,
whether tariffs, income or property
taxes, or consumption taxes.

Tariffs have a twofold distorting
effect. First of all, they raise prices for
the domestic consumer, thus causing
“under-consumption” in the economy.
Second, as a corollary, tariffs encour-
age the misallocation of resources and
production.

Tariffs raise domestic prices be-
cause they stifle competition. Putting
a tax on imported products causes their

prices to rise commensurately in the
long run. In the short run, the foreign
exporters will absorb some of the blow,
but in the long run, the whole burden
will pass to consumers, after foreign
companies that could not withstand
the decrease in theirrevenue have gone
out of business. But driving foreign
exporters out of business is no help to
our consumers. It was this sort of
action that precipitated the worldwide
depression after the Smoot-Hawley
Tariff in 1932.

After the tariff has stiﬂed foreign
competition, domestic industry will
have the freedom to raise prices as
well, but they will reap the full beneﬁts

of higher proﬁts without having to pay _

the tax that foreign producers do. In
the long run, these new proﬁts will
incite new competition, which brings
prices down again but brings about
misallocation of production. For in-
stead of producing what we are “natu-
rally” capable of producing, the nation
has turned to producing what other
nations used to produce for us. This
consequence ﬂies in the face of the
division of labor so important to an
efficient economy. If France is pro-
ducing wine and exporting it to the
United States, and we put tariffs on
French wine, then the United States
will start producing wine. But the
United States is not naturally ﬁt for
producing wine; otherwise it would
have been doing so beforehand. We
end up producing wine when we could
have been producing silicon computer
chips or another product for which we
have more and better resources.

Thus, we see that tariffs have a
distorting effect on the economy. Let
us then turn to income and property
taxes.

Income and property taxes, espe-
cially those of the progressive sort,
tend to discourage the making of in-
come and the ownership of property.

‘‘If you tax something, you will dis-
courage it,” is a general rule. Ironi-
cally, the only exception is for inferior
goods, which are so dear that they must
be attained at any price.

In the case of the income tax, in-
come is an inferior good for the very
poor. Those who have little income
will, when taxed, try to make up for
that loss by working harder to make
even more money. Thus, income taxa-
tion perversely causes the wealthy to
move their assets to sheltered places
and not to work as hard or produce as
much, and causes the poor to work even
harder for less pay. Meanwhile, taxes
on the rich encourage them not to work
or produce at all and to move their
investments to sheltered areas, tactics
which the rest of us are not able to use.
The progressive nature of our income
tax today takes the burden off the poor
but exacerbates the other problem, that
of discouraging wealth-production.

Property (in the sense of land), on
the other hand, is not an inferior good,
because property taxes do not take
away land itself, but rather wealth.
Thus, they encourage the poor to work
harder to make up yet another shortfall
in income, and encourage the rich not
to buy large plots of land but instead to
put their wealth in speculative ven-
tures, for example. All these distorting
effects of income and property taxes
are serious problems in the national
economy because they force consum-
ers to make decisions that do not bring
them the greatest utility.

The consumption tax is equally
destructive. Its proponents argue that
it would not require an intrusive bu-
reaucracy such as the IRS, but this
assertion is unfounded. A national
sales tax would require a myriad of
inspectors to make sure that every small
business and every day-to-day trans-
action factored in the state’s percent-
age. Furthennore, such a tax would

unnaturally discourage consumption, i

as should be obvious by now. The
exception would again be for inferior
goods, such as food and gasoline, which
are virtual necessities. When the prices
of these items rise, they cannot be

substituted, and people will continue _

buying them. Poor people, who spend
a greater percentage of their income on
necessities, would be hit hardest.
Thus, most sales-tax proponents
favor deductions for the poor or with-
holding the sales tax from necessary
items. But once this happens, we still
have the problem of unnaturally dis-
couraging consumption of luxuries and
thereby distorting economic alloca-
tions. The problems are inescapable: a
consumption tax hurts the economy.
In fact, these problems dog any

kind of tax proposal. Not only do taxes '

hurt the economy by taking large
amounts of capital out of productive
use, they further damage us by encour-
aging misallocations and distortions.
Unless we can envision an all-wise
government that can somehow factor
in every problem it causes by taxation
and then remedy these problems with
equal and opposite policies, we cannot
justify taxation on economic grounds.
I submit that we cannot envision such
a government, unless we believe in a
God-govemment that could also run
the minutiae of an entire economy.
The complexities of our modem-day
economy simply will not allow any
kind of effective micro-management.

The statist may justify taxation on
one ﬁnal criterion: coercive taxation
might be necessary to fund certain
crucial operations that for some reason
a free market cannot do. I will analyze
the problem of “public goods” and
“externalities” in my next column.
Unless the argument for public goods
succeeds, we must conclude that taxa-
tion is wholly unjustifiable on eco-
nomic grounds.

.._i-.-_--.--

 

's---__-_-

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996

OPINION

  ‘You’re the next contestant on. . .

1

'4'

1|.’

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

Since I have too much work to do
now anyway, I’ve started wasting more
time with a new hobby: I sit on my
couch, watch The Price Is Right, and
yell at the television. It is, after all,
educational. I know all about how to
be a good consumer and get the best
deal on new carpeting. The Price Is
Right has always held a special magic
for me. I remember watching it over
the summer when I was a kid, thinking
about how much I’d like that new car
and listening to my mom tell me I’d rot
my brain, and I should read a book.
Ah, memories.

One of the cool things about the
show is that nothing seems to have
changed in all the years I’ve watched
the show. The set is the same orange,
red, and purple monstrosity it has been
since approximately 1860. And the
contestants will probably neverchange.
I hope not, because lately I’ve dreamed
of becoming one.

Near as I can tell, there are a few
ways to ensure that I will one day here
the words, “BETSY GREEN, COME
ON DOWN!” All I’d have to do is
wear something that will give Bob
Barker something to talk about. A t-

shirt with the name of your hometown
is always a good choice, or huge Greek
letters ora college name. Another popu-
lar choice is a huge
cowboy hat and

Right and watch people try to bid.
They leave themselves a margin of
three dollars between bids, like they
aresosurethey
were dead on

belt buckle set, but

(6

accurate in

the best choice by , their estima-
farseemstobeany Since BOO Barker no tion of the
military uniform. - price of that
Bob Barker loves longer klsses contes' curio cabinet.
the soldiers. Come tants, I ’d just pat  These are the
to think of it, any- people who are
one ‘in Lexington 0 n the 17 U tto H e bound to spend
wou dhaveapretty I ° the entire show
good shot of get- dO_esn t seem to mlnd bidding, guess-
ting Ion the show, altttle sexual harass- ing wrong, and
W& students in bondin w'th
their letters, ment now and then" the oth%r Ids-
townies in their... ers. Probably
townie gear, and the coolest

VMI students in
their little grey outﬁts. We’d be a lock.

I ﬁgure if my name didn’t get called,
the thing to do would be to look excited
and run down to Contestant’s Row
anyway. If I beat the real contestant
there, maybe no one would notice.
Such obnoxious behavior seems to be
encouraged. And if I can’t get on the
show, I’d want them to have to call
security to drag me out of the studio.
That would be cool.

If you ever have any doubt as to the
poor job the American educational sys-
tem has done, tune in to The Price is

thing you can
do is bid a conﬁdent, “One dollar!” I’d
probably do that for every item, re-
gardless of whether or not anyone over-
bid. It would work for me eventually.

Once I got on stage, I’d scream and
jump up and down a lot. Since Bob
Barker no longer kisses contestants,
I’d just pat him on the butt. He doesn’t
seem to mind a little sexual harassment
now and then.

Bob would then explain the game to
me, and when he’d say, “Do you un-
derstand?” I’d keep saying no until he
got mad. And if the game was

 
  

_ A

uu.L  THEY'RE
Nor GOOD PLEMFS.
ftrr TIIEY DON'T‘

COMPLMN IF You
BEAT ‘men want

GENERATION Lax

A $0LUTl0N T0 SHORTENED PLEpoEsmP-.

  

 
   
   
   
 

STICK .

  

O’Rourke castigates
whiners of America

MY VIEW

Celeste Rasmussen, ’98

When debating about politics with
some of my liberal friends, factual
contentions and constructive reason-
ing usually turn into dirty attacks.

“But Democrats are so much
cooler,” they say, and usually cite x
and y rock band and our sax-sporting
president. “Well, you may have all of
them,” I respond, “but we have P.J.
O’Rourke.”

O’Rourke, one-time editor of Na-
tionalLampoon magazine, author, and
contributing writer to publications that
span the spectrum from Rolling Stone
to The/lmerican Spectator, spoke last

Tuesday night in Lee Chapel. Being a
great fan, I was more than impressed
with his speech which included the
same wittiness and multi-layered hu-
mor that can be found in all of his best-
selling books.

He discussed “The Whining of
America,” a spin-off topic from his
bookAlI the Trouble in the World, and
reminded us that despite all of the so-
called-troubles of the worry-mongers,
(there ’s a hole in the ozone, the Repub-
licans took all the money in the 1980’s)
life is better today than it ever has been.

“Just think of King George’s den-
tist,” he added. In fact, in true W&L
style, he reminded us that life was
better last Tuesday night than it was at
9:30 that morning, after aspirin and
two Bloody-Mary’s, of course.

Indeed, only O’Rourke could ex-

plain the S&L crisis in 15 minutes,
relate the Omnibus Farm Bill to the
artiﬁcial insemination of cows, and
compare life under the Democrats to a
visit to the Department of Motor Ve-
hicles. The fun didn’t stop even after
the speech, when he ﬁelded questions
from the audience. Afterbeing asked if
the current “whining trend” of America
would ever stop, he responded with:
Trends come and go, just like in the
1980’swhen the trend was to dress like
a preppy. The W&L look was in back
then

Kudos to the Contact Committee
for bringing in-one of my favorite
authors to campus. The highlight of
my evening was when I met O’Rourke,
and he autographed a book for me. “To
Celest,” he wrote, “Peace kills - P.J.
O’Rourke.”

”‘ Be a part of a

, 98-year-old tradition

‘ The Ring-tum Phi
W Tuesdays 7 p.m. room 208, University Center

everyone’s favorite, Plinko, I’d fall off
the Plinko Platfonn. Suing the show is
bound to be worth more money than I
could possibly win. But once the game
started, I’d be all concentration. The
worst thing to do on the show is to
irritate the studio audience. Follow their
advice or pay the consequences. Man,
you don’t want to turn those people
against you. If you try to spin the wheel
and don’t get it to spin all the way
around, I think they have interns who
hold off the audience with cattle prods.

Natually, I'll get to the Showcase
Showdown. This is, after all, my day-
dream. On every show I have ever
watched, there has been one showcase
that’s really cool and another one that
is just useless. When they show me the
ﬁrst one, if they even start to mention
carpeting, a bedroom set, or new socks,
I’ll just interrupt them right then and
there and pass the hell out of it. Let the
guy in the sailor suit have the furniture
and Stainmaster carpet. I want the jet
ski, the home ice cream parlor, the trip
to Isreal, and I'll drive to Isreal in A
NEW CAR!

As my dream comes to an end, I’ll
be sitting in that new car and yelling at
the models to stay away so they don’t
chipthe paintasAmerica watches with
pride.

I’ll see you on the small screen. Get
your pets spayed or neutered.

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Senior Cocktail Party

The seniorcocktail party has been
postponed until Friday, March 15
from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Alumni
House. Non-refundable tickets are
available by advance sale only.
Tickets will be sold outside the Co-
Op from Wednesday to Friday
March 6-8 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
each day. You can still charge the
$10 fee home. If you have already
bought your ticket, you need not
reregister. If you have any questions,
please call Justin King (463-8464) and
let him know.

Oxford Exchange

Washington and Lee is one of six
area schools that sponsor a summer
program of study at St. Anne’s College,
Oxford, England. The Virginia Pro-
gram at Oxford follows the English
tutorial system and studies the subject
areasof literature and history ofTudor-
Stuart England. Dates are July 1 to
August 10,1996. Application deadline
is March 1, 1996. There is some schol-
arship aid available. See Prof. Pamela
Simpson in the Art Dept. or call 8857
for more infonnation.

CDPO News

Seniors; Don’t miss the newest
recruiting and interviewing oppor-
tunities with the Career Develop-
ment Ofﬁce. Included are positions
in publishing, banking, consulting,
paralegal and teaching. Most of
these have FEBRUARY 16 dead-
lines so stop by soon to get details.

Film Society

The next presentation from the
Washington and Lee Film Society
will be SAFE (USA, 1995), di-
rected by Todd Haynes.

Screenings will be at 8:05 PM on
Friday and Saturday, Feb. 9 and 10,
in the Troubadour Cinema, at the
comer of Main and Henry Streets.
There is no charge for admission.

Scholarship

Scholarship opportunity: The
John Gyles Education Fund make
ﬁnancial assistance available to stu-
dents in the U.S. and Canada. Full
Canadian or U.S. citizenship is

required. Also required is a mini-

mum GPA of 2.7 . Selected students
will receive up to $2,500.00. Dead-
lines: April 15, June 15, November
15. For application forms send
stamped self-addressed envelope
(NO.10) envelope to:

The John Gyles Educational Fund
Attention: R. James Cougle, Ad-
ministrator

P.0. Box 4808, 712 Riverside Dr.
Fredericton, New Brunswick
Canada E3B5G4

Alumni Office

Applications from members of
the class of 1996 who wish to be
considered for the Alumni Ofﬁce
Staff Associate position for the
1996-97 academic year are due by
Monday, March 11, 1996. Graduat-
ing seniors should submit a letter of
application and resume to Alumni
Secretary Jim Farrar at the Alumni
House. The Staff Associate posi-
tion is currently held by Justin King
’95 and becomes available July 1,
1996. Personal interviews will be
scheduled upon receipt of applica-
tions.

Dance Lessons

Frank Rupas is offering ballroom
dancing lessons. Learn how to dance
for Fancy Dress. First lesson is free.
New lessons will be taught on the
hour from 6 to 10 p.m. on Tuesday,
February 27.

Exercise Workshop

Women’s Forum is sponsoring a
“How to start Exercising” work-
shop 6 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 11 in
Doremus Gym.

 

Joining a state delegation is
the only way to SEE the

1996 Republican
Mock Convention

Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California,
Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Guam,
Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, New
York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania,
Texas, Utah, Wisconsin, and Wyoming

All have spaces left on their delegations
This is your last chance to join a

delegation.

Monday, Febrauary 12 through
Friday, February16
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

In front of the co-op
$15 -- check, cash, or charge it home

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996

ADVERTISEMENTS

     

 

    
  

      
 
 
 

   

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items   H a   »
Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.  : A B , t :
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 . . - .  5 ZS  E ,
. . ' ‘ ’ H ; : 8 am - 3 pm - Monday :

WINTER BLAH SALE prqcassing mail tor 58:‘;‘..;}‘ii’:.“..;?;::‘::y-';?:::2:y 5,
IN THE B 0 OK 8 T0 R E Mltolaal company! F139 5 9 am - 3 Pm - Sunday 5

BA  T     E Wednesday — Spaghetti & Salad '5' ‘
Great prices on sweatshirts —— even   . I   9 .. °"“3°3  : A”y°u°a"eat$4'99 :
hoods __ and other good Stuff 3  A Q  5 Thursday - 10% off food -with student ID :3

E  H   ‘A E Friday - Seafood Nite — E 1‘
February 12, 8 to 4:30   GHC: SUITE 215    gamma _  1I;fi§:eSR*{rbimPaTr°“t 

Snow date February 14 1351 N.FEDERBL " I   y 2Vegs, Sa1adl$8.95  ‘
 III-LYHOOD. FL 3302   E  §iWi’i"M§*i:m&,$;§,;§¢°tt*rr1~5° =
‘ﬁarbs  - aw. E iiiI.vst:>:i.s.t-. i<>.n..V.K.".2:i:i:t2...E

Don ’t Let
Your Student
Gommgrr

  _ ~Harbsf,.1?oint.ICard"Tiei , 'iL,;i
 The $100Mea1Tickei  
 Redeemableffor I i

41 Breakfast, ‘Lu eh‘, Dinner 9

 V   For en1y,$90.00s. 

   

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

   

,   ,.  st
Tlxe Devil Made Tlscin Do it'll!

Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center
Tickets: 463-8000
Feb. 9, 10, 12 at 8 pm.
Feb. 11 at 2 p.m.

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

FREE FINANCIAL AID

$Attention All Students$

SUMMER JOBS AT

FREE Money is currently available for College Students Nationwide. Over $6 Billion iin aid

is now available from private sectro grants & scholarships. All students are eligible to
receive some sort of aid, regardless of grades, income, or parents's income. Let us help you.
For more information, call:
Student Financial Services
{LI 0 5"  ‘

 

TEACH ENGLISH IN KOREA Positions available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. US $l8,500—25,400/yr. Accomodatiori & rourid—trip
airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma arid copy of paeeport to:
Bok Ji Coprporatiori, Chum Bang Bldg, l54»l5 Sameurig Dong, Kang Nam Gu,
Seoul, Korea 155-090.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Counselors for Summer Scholars
July 3 - August 3, 1996
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school
students in Graham—Lees dormitory and plan evening and weekend
activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline is February
28, 1996.
Special Programs Resident Assistants
June 12 - August 3, 1996

The Office of Special Programs employs four W&L students to serve as
hosts/ hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

The Buffet is served from 8:00 a._m. until 1:30 p.m.

FAX: Oll—82-2—552—4F/\X(4529) We’ll be waiting for you_

TEL: 011982-2‘555—JOBS(5627> Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities

A’ _ . ,  .  managementand housekeeping, recepti0ns,and transportation. Appli-

I  cation Deadline is March 15, 1996.

" I For further information, please Contact the Office of Special
Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.

25 N. Main Street
  w “Wm/tat ﬁwmlc? J/la/2/oneﬁ at (2//0/M712/(y ,

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexin ton VA

 

 

 iiiestaurant and
I 9-[05Eie’5Lounge

 

Lexington, Virginia 24450 ‘ kg Cwld 
Near the Horse Center ' /0   7,5135. 00 0/; 5 c<>a'MZ1ﬂ/4 $2!/. 00
Phone 464-9499 cm 04/,  tr

°u¢imoul5

- ?
Lounge Open 4'00  to ‘ (€a///o4 (I/I/wlhlnwnlo/1./'mtl Mo/I 19/

Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

 

 
  
 
   
 
   
  

    

    
     

>~
§‘l1!ll’lSI:Il3§Al§;NRC]l\ASIl§8i%‘l) i=RSEEELih 7 ' ' ' '12". 3c'iR'l:»T ”§I3"1"1'z'23§' - ' ' ' ' ' " '7
StudentTravelServicesisnow hiring I 1501 B.H1lLL.A1~lDAI.E BCB BLVD 3
,°(‘,“"J§$,,,’i‘°’c‘§,"‘%,f,‘,',‘;‘,',¥,°S'1)‘;;‘,’(,°,,S,‘,”;‘,f ﬂaw you can have two at the moat remgnlaad and ' H3LL”‘m"‘LE ' FLOR U35 33909 ‘ 7-
p nama cit’), Beach (’ja111_g00_54g accepted cram. «junk in the w<§|d..VInIl and lilnuhswcunﬂ I 1
4§49 1! <=-I'h~ '0 Z  EVE" gY°'J NE "W E’. 3 twunt VISAS/MASTEROARD-O Credit I
Visit  Mask.-bread’! the credit end: you : anuapp I M hub" '00“ ouanlnjlﬁm :
d::ner'HentI3nccdfor—lI)—E)OR5—DEPARfMEN‘£‘ . NAME , ,_
am up «» széiiiliimiiing for en-is mama}‘.iE?r“¢‘«?‘sa'.1l'r‘fc”?<”m"£.‘7$$‘m"«.§.1‘ ' '
Ships or Land-Tourco.mpanies+ World Trave H MarEl3wcms_£AR g§NrA15_ I AD I
i§f‘§_°',L‘§,',‘§§,‘§’o‘:;‘,'.'jT‘"‘° °"“"°’"‘°"‘ "Va" nai>.iuss--mu -no auim mun cmmrr tvmnoi I. CITY STATE ._ ZIP :
(206)971-3550 ext. C53421 STUDENT? -Yes R” 8'5! .
.  In turn dawns! ' ‘ i ' ’“
RA\lELABl'<‘0ADAND\'l'0Rl\ New . .
. SIGNATURE '
g»! I!” In credit checks!
ﬁﬁglﬁaggﬁfia all security QEDIISHH ' I018; uaalaoud ls l uguvuudundnn-at cl " ‘“‘1MdInk:InlkhrIaL hc, '
om. Many employers provide mm & board y ‘agar:-.°,¢;1 I Sam “"5 cmpm ‘own : win It an  Ind;-ullrk d was ll$1L1!=x'. and visa Inktviiomd :
i§l§Lf§§s°l§iui'le3.‘°”§3l"§i§?§ ki§]f(d:r'r1:ati)dnA:all Your: cnemr cums Alli win nus! 3 mm "" H” “'5” °°uP°“ mm" . r
_ Zbtzxzuu1$¢$$$C$C$2&&$:$—Q

 

 

 

4!‘

 

‘T he Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996

if Sweet Savings

  
 

1 Dozen Bouquet

 Visa

Pre-Packaged
With Greenery
& Baby’s
Breath
S ray 99 1,8 [Inch 99
ose ar
Bouquet ea.4 galloons ea. 1

5Zl??[L£‘ZT5 or ‘me rm/££9(

Sweet

  Florida
1   fa berries

   
   

~:¥~e

Pint

     

s th R. at H ' r  
Sfytle er? 9""”‘°“-"’3'sr.o,,¢,,,£, 1 W?'ll';':e__Cleetel.iie Or 
Biscuits ___s ct. ToppingE"s‘;".?:.

Kellogg’s
Corn

   

15 Oz.
Soft Drink Feature

  
 

 

PEPSI

'1
ALL NATURAL

  

2

2 Liter

Pepsi Or Diet

Hunter

Ice Cream Pepsi

    

  

gal.
White Or chocolate Oscar Mayer Regular Or 3
Valentine 249 Light 49 I

Oup Oakes_f2 ct. Bologna mg.
Selected Varieties

Brach’s Valentine  gelghtggixfviiiiglies 69
Candys_a.2s.1a oz. ﬂ 5 “,1
Prices Effective Through February 13,1996

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, February 7 Through February 13, 1996 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores
Only. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

PAGE 7

 

Jill Sheets

Women‘s Swimming

Senior co-captain Jill Sheets picked up a
pair of victories during the women’s swim-
mingteam’s meetwith Hollins. Sheets breezed
to wins in both the 100 and 200 breaststroke as
the Generalscapturedtheir25th straightODAC
meet, 128-97. Sheets and her teammates will
defend their ODAC/Atlantic States Champi-
onships title on February 23-25 at Radford.

  

is;

Senior tri-captain Cam Dyer played an im-
pressive game last Saturday against Eastern
Mennonite. Dyer led the Generals to a season
high 1 00-point performance over the EMU Roy-
als. He remains on top ofthe ODAC in scoring,
averaging 21.8 points per game. Dyer scored 23
points and matched his career-high 13 rebounds
in the victory over Eastern Mennonite.

Cam Dyer
Men’s Basketball

 The Magic is backin

I THE BIG FAN, from Page 3

and 7 reboundson Utah’s Karl Malone, a player who had
been veaemently opposed to Magic’s first comeback.

Magic has always been the consummate team player.
He made the triple-double a household term in the’80s
because of his brilliant play both offensively and defen-
sively. He makes the most difficult plays look easy.
More irnportantly, his determination to win is paralleled
only by Jordan. Magic has the type of personality and
leadership that can elevate atearn. The Lakers have been
talented but inconsistent so far. Here’s a guess that
Magic will help mold them into a coherent unit.

Why did Magic return? Maybe he felt he retired too
_, y , soon and had something left 7 to prove. He may love
L‘ playing basketball so much that he can’: stop. Or maybe

 

he just wants to enjoy fife  he still can.-1 Few of us

understand the urgency that lviagiegitrtay feel. Although ‘

he looks great now, he could live forlt) or_2
: , id

  

blown AIDS, who knows?‘
One thing l’ve learnedis
Lohaus orManute Bel who it
becomes a1in0Yiﬂ8- M3g.i?Wl11 ..  . . . ::
of Showtime, but ‘he’s?}§§tiil ion’ of . the; best‘ players ’ 
amund- He certainly has proved that thus far. -   .
Johnson and Jordan are probably the bestﬂbasketball. ’
players of our generation. .We should appreciate them [
for the players they have been anditghe players they still
are. But if things‘sourvthis tiugei, Ighope Magic will '
gracefully decide to permanently,xe:i,t¢ ysqthai his u:.3gf*:.. '
niﬁcent career does not turn iutoia farce. 1- I 2  _ 1 ‘A
The clock on Magigfslc eer and life is ticking down. i . a
We should givetlte ma “

    

H

   
 
  
 

 
  
 

Generals show improvement

HOOPS, from Page 8

time lead and then buried the Generals
with a 24-3 barrage to start the second
half. W&L would only be able to
reduce the gap to 19 points by the end
of the game.

Senior Allison Hull had a tremen-
dous game for the Generals, netting 14
points to go along with 7 assists and 6

rebounds. Sophomores Hicks and
Tonia Dean each scored 12 points.
The Generals came up on the short

‘ end of a 67-60 heartbreaker Tuesday

against Bridgewater. W&L rallied from
a double-digit deﬁcit in the second half
to close to 62-60 with 1:34 remaining.

That was as the Generals would get,
however. Bridgewater came up with
steals on the next two W&L posses-
sions to seal its win.

Despite the narrow loss, W&

refreshing original

folk/pop/rock
style

strong guitar
playing

poetic lyrics

passionate
performance

 

L dominated Bridgewater on the
boards with a 47-26 rebounding ad-
vantage. Sandra Holmes collected 14
of those rebounds to compliment her
14 points. Freshman Chrissy Burghardt
also had a strong night for the Gener-
als, tallying 16 points and 9 rebounds.

The Generals’ record now stands at
4-14 overall and 3-13 in the ODAC
after their 1-2 week. Washington and
Lee returns south to battle Roanoke
Saturday afternoon.

  
   

friday, february 9

in theAGHQ Pub

student activities/
pub committee

10 p.m.

free admission

sponsored by

  

MAIL!

START

§ﬁnﬁn——-II--n-:-----tun

5 PAID
W1‘-:E1£I.Y!
C   PROCESSING

 
   

   
 

  

 

DETAILS:

  EARN
can MON
AT ME!

  N0 EXPERIENCE:
NECESSARY! '
RUSH LONG SASE |
s..@*.1.S°,...

18:61 Ill... nrnnrasnzsx... l':l'II"I'
HOLLYW ?.ﬁ3;D 20

  
  
 

-- ._..aaa....
,,...-"“‘*

I
I
I
  _.l

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with

America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

(800) 95-BREAK!

 

Last Week:

Ellie iliing-tum iﬂlii

This Week:

MBABKEFBALL - W, 100.79 vs, Eastern Mennonite, Wn.Bs'n.mG - Saturday at Virginia State Championships
L, 88-71, :15. Randolph-Macon‘ 1 (at Longwood College)
L 6865 at Lynchbur ’ MB.«sx:.'rnAu..- Saturday at Roanoke, 7:30 PM;
’ ' 3 Wednesday at. Eastern Mennonite, 7:30 PM
WBAsiu:raAu.- L, 79-60, vs. Roanoke; WBAEKEFMHH gaugday atvl.zl°m3)kl'.3’ 5:90 PM;_
L, 67-60, vs. Bridgewater; Tznsgy vs‘ ‘$.18. ‘ileV’v4'?0 PM’ .
W’ 62-46’ at Honing Thﬁrsgiyvit L1;rg1::Ttl?urges’le'l’)3nPM.0O PM;
PAGE 8 BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

FEBRUARY 9, 1996

 

 
     
 
  
   
  
    

Return  
Showtime

‘THE BIG  
er Sccm‘ Booxwamsn

 

 

- Last spring, I wrote
column blasting i_v‘licha"
Jordan, Magic Johnson
and other athletes. w
hang on too long Vtojtli
respective careers or 
not decide about
neatly retiring. \   A
Well, I take that back 
Sort of. 3. M « ’

I still feel that itisfmo
honorable for a3 playctto
retire instead of his agree
becomingamemory. 
can’t piayers dec;,id_
whether they wautito pt;
or not?  i

Johnson retirediou No’-
vember7, 1991 aftetbcing , 
diagnosed with HIV. He 
had little other choice. ﬁe 
knew that NBA’ piayeérs, f_ .
like many others in»jt_lie'.
nation, would not under--. , ._
stand the minimal risks of-Pi
playing with-a 
tive player. . ‘ .

We mourned for Magi
We..dscric<* .th§..smi of '
era, me.rma1? curtaitt‘
Showtime.  Bverythia

 
   
  
     
   
  
  

 
  

    
  

bet. Magic played onithe _
1992 U.S.Oly:_npicDream 1
Team, but more as a»'tri'b~:.,..’
ute to his great career than? 2;
to his current status. ,We..:‘,
began towonderhow muclt“ ‘
time Magic had»Ieﬁ->..iV ‘
Magic attempted
comeback in 1992, but it , .
soon aborted it.» After a"
short stint as the Lake} 
coach, he retired again; We ‘
figured that was the end of ,
Magic’s public life, ; ” » i
So I didn’t know‘ what. 
to think when Magic an 
nounced that he _was_.re

  
 
  
    
  

 
 
 
   
    

 

has not played in the ieagu
for four years. B0lh_;\th
playersandtheteaguehav
changed. How product V V
could Magicbeat thissizagef 
of his career? Would he 
now be a benchwarmer? 3; Q
But after watching",
Magic ro.llup19poia1ts, 1 _
assists, and 8 reboundsgin, 
his first game back
Tuesday against G0l_d‘enf
State,lrealizedhowmuch .
the NBA needs Magic. _
The NBA has stepped
backwards inrecerttyears; 
After the “Bad  :1
troit Pistons. elbowed {and j 
chuckedtheirwaytoback-; . .
to-back titles in the late; 
’80s, the NBA. degeneiw 
axed into a physical, pound». 
it-insideleague. ’I‘l1eI{ock«.
cts and the Knicks‘ be;
good teams,but howm ‘
fun is it to.watchfthe_n‘1
This certainly, .isn’t nth
Lakers’ fast-breaking}
the Celtics’ preeisi
shooting of the ‘S08; 8 .
sides, who wouid you ,1-1
rather watch play basket-
ball: Magic Johnsozt:”’:’or £3
Anthony Ma'son?- ‘ A 
Even worse is the .atzi-, -
tude of today’s piayers.’
Dream Team l1,iie<};b
Derrick Coleman?-vv_‘.and“
Larry Johnsonpemba
rassed itseif withﬁs hot»
tendons sportsrnanshi;>'iri' at
the summer of 1994.,'I'he‘ "
NBA has changed fronielé -
°g3“9F?.i9.?‘¥P83n¢§:..  .. -
Magic canciiangesozne A 
of this. True, henowhas '
Elder: Campbeil; Cedric.
Cebailos, Vlade Divao,-l 
Nick Van Exe}, and Eddie‘ A ‘
Jiones as teammates; ad! ;
Kareem Abduljslabhar, 
James Worthy‘, Byfron
Scott, and A.C. Green.
Magic, now 27 poor:

 

   
 
 
 
   
 

  
  
  
   
  

 

   

   

    

A heavier, is playing power; .5

forward for the Lakets in-
stead of his customary A
point guard positioit;.t And 3
he hasn’t been starting.

But just think how
much better he can make, 
the Lakcrs. His first shot: 
last Tuesday wasa driving‘f‘= :
layup,acIassicMagicshot' 
In fact, the Lakers looked ‘
like they were reincamat-3 3
ing Showtime aszﬁgiey 
scored moretlian 70poin‘ts g» 
in the ﬁrs! half. Sunday, 6
Magic rung up 21 points

See THE BIG
FAN, Page 7

Generals gear themselves for playoff charge

By CHRIS PUGSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

 

The pressure put on the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s basketball
team to make the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament
culminated in a strong win over
Eastern Mennonite on Saturday.
The Generals kept their playoff
hopes alive by defeating Eastern
Mennonite 100-79 in an ex-
tremely physical matchup.

It was a game of extremes,
seeing both teams combine for a
total of 50 fouls and a combined
73 free throws and 51 three-point
attempts. But these extremes
were not to be outdone by the
physical play of both teams.

When the smoke and carnage
cleared, the Generals came out
on top. Cam Dyer led the Gener-
als with 23 points and 13 re-
bounds, but the talk of the game
was senior guard Jon Coffman.
His inspired play produced a sea-
son high 22 points, 4 assists and
2 steals, not to mention his out-
standing leadership and inten-
sity on the ﬂoor.

Chris Couzen continued his
consistent performance with 20
points, 5 rebounds and 4 steals

before fouling out.

The win sustained the Gener-
als’ position in ninth place in the
ODAC and kept them mathemati-
cally alive in the hunt for the
eighth and ﬁnal playoff berth in
the ODAC tournament.

The Generals put together
another impressive show on
Monday. In the stands for the
matchup against Randolph-Ma-
con College were the families of
seniors Cam Dyer, Jon Coffman
and Derek Carter as they played
theirlast career home game. With
the eyes of visiting lecturer and
Boston Globe sports columnist
Bob Ryan looking down from
the Warner Center press gallery,
the Generals battled against Kurt
Axe and the Randolph-Macon
Yellow Jackets.

It was extraordinary to see an
instance where an opposing
player refers to a road game as
“home cooking”, but then again,

Axe is deﬁnitely an extraordi-

nary player.
After an 11-point ﬁrst half,

Axe exploded for 20 second half
points en route to an 88-71 Yel-
low Jacket victory. Axe ﬁnished

the game with 31 points and 4
steals, hitting on 6 of 8 from three
point range.

But, the Generals would not

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
Freshman Amber Hinkle looks to pass inside.

Women’s hoops
prevails at Hollins

From Phi Staff Reports

The women’s basketball
team continued its improved play
this week, capturing one win in
three attempts.

W&L journeyed to Hollins
Thursday night and returned with
a 62-46 victory.

The Generals were on ﬁre
early in the game, storming out
to a 19-2 lead. Hollins closed the
gap, but W&L ﬁnished as well
as it started. The Generals shut
out Hollins over the ﬁnal 4:29,
enabling W&L to snare the win.

Freshman Karin Treese
scored 11 points, all on foul shots.
Her 11-12 free throw shooting

performance set a W&L record.
Sophomore Michelle Hicks
scored 12 points and senior
Sandra Holmes had 14 rebounds.
After a 58-48 victory over
Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege last week, snow prevented
W&L from trying to win its sec-
ond straight game Saturday
against Villa Julie. The contest
was postponed to this Sunday at
4:00 PM in the Warner Center.
W&L tried again Sunday
against Roanoke, but the Gener-
als proved to be no match for the
red-hot Maroons, losing 79-60.
Roanoke cruised to a 42-28 half-

See HOOPS, Page 7

go unheard from in the second
half. Kelly Dyer’s three-point
shot with 6:30 left brought the
Generals within seven and the
continued inspirational play of
Jon Coffman kept the Generals’
hopes alive.

But with 1:13 left, Axe pro-
duced a feat that would win a
place at the ESPY awards cer-
emony. Axe grabbed a loose ball
and, falling out of bounds, threw
up a shot from behind the
backboard and hit nothing but
net. Talk about extremes?

Nevertheless, the Generals
received strong performances
from Cam Dyer, with 22 points
and 8 rebounds, Jon Coffman,
who scored 14 points and dished
out 4 assists, and Derek Carter,
who hit two three-pointers for 6
of his 7 points.

On Wednesday, the men trav-
eled to Lynchburg College. The
game was close throughout, but
the Hornets handed the Generals
a tough loss.

W&L pulled within one with
two seconds left on Kelly Dyer’s
three-point basket. But two
Lynchburg free throws made the
ﬁnal score 68-65.

Cam Dyer turned in a 23-
point, 6-rebound performance
while Chris Couzen posted 16

points and 5 rebounds.

Couzen was helped in the back
court by Kevin Cobbin, who added
5 points, 4 assists and a career-
high 8 rebounds. W&L was hurt
by 22 turnovers, and 30 percent

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
Jon Coffman drives toward the net in a recent W&L men’s basketball game.

ODAC tournament.

The Generals have two road
games remaining: Saturday’s
contest with Roanoke and next
Wednesday’s season finale
against Eastern Mennonite.

shooting from the ﬁeld in the
second half.

Despite the loss, which drops
their overall record to 3-19, the
Generals still remain in the hunt
for the final playoff spot in the

Freshmen women make immediate
contributions to W&L swimming

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

Five freshmen women joined the swimming team this winter with
a large void to fill and a lot of work ahead of them. ‘

For freshmen Margaret Hoehl, Laura Goodwin, Jen Selder, Greta
Richter and Courtney Tyler, all of the effort has paid off. They had
nine of the best times in the fourteen events that the Generals swam
this year, and they ﬁnished second in three events.

All ﬁve have made an impact this year. Senior co-captain Jill
Sheets noted the depth that they bring, and the points they have scored.
Fellow teammate sophomore Ali Kappel commented, “They’ve added
strength to our relay teams and a lot of team spirit.”

At the end of last year, the Generals lost several excellent seniors,
leaving a void in many events. Head Coach Kiki Jacobs is very
pleased with the contribution of the freshmen. “There is not one
person that could ﬁll Susan Fisher or Brandi Henderson’s spot, but
between all of them, they have stepped up. They can swim anything
you need them to.”

Margaret Hoehl has made the biggest impact on the team. A
prospective biology major from Tullahoma, TN, Hoehl holds the top
team times in seven events, four of those in freestyle. In addition, she
has the second best time in two events, both behind senior All-
American Rebekah Prince. “Margaret is our strongest freshman,”
said Jacobs.

Hoehl began swimming competitively when she was only ﬁve
years old, and stated that herbest moment in her swimming career was
her trip to states last year. She said her best moment of her freshman
year so far was the 500 free at the Sewanee meet. She only lost by four
hundredths of a second.

Greta Richter, who was a teammate of Hoehl’s at Tullahoma High
School, is very active outside the pool. Richter is a Kappa Kappa
Gamma pledge, on the Freshmen Leadership Council and is a tutor in
the community. She is currently undecided on a major.

Like Hoehl, she began swimming at age ﬁve. “My mom made me
at ﬁrst, I didn’t like the water because it was too cold. After that I loved
it and I love the competition.” v

Richter keeps swimming because she has so much fun on the team.
“I love everyone on the team here, we have a great time, and are all
friends.”

Her crowning achievement thus far was scoring the team’s best
time of 19:42.58 in the 1650 free against Johns Hopkins.

Courtney Tyler came to W&L from Anchorage, KY. Tyler is
also a Kappa pledge and a prospective biology major. She began
swimming at the age of four.

She is a strong butterﬂy swimmer, which helped fill an important
hole for the Generals. She has the top time for the Generals in the
200, and is second in the 100. Tyler also excels in the IM events,
where she claims to have the fondest memories of the season, so far.

“I broke the meet record in the 2001M. A lot of my friends were
there, and I was very nervous. When I touched the wall, everyone
was screaming, and I didn’t know what for. Then someone told me
I broke the meet record.”

Laura Goodwin is a member of Alpha Phi Omega service
fraternity, and is on the Freshmen Orientation Committee. She came
to W&L from Bridgeport, WV, and plans on majoring in biology and
French. She started swimming when she was six, and has loved it
ever since. “It makes me more motivated, and helps me with time
management.”

The Catholic meet this year stands out in her mind. Goodwin was
very sick and was having a lot of trouble swimming that night.
Prince and Sheets convinced her to swim the 200 ﬂy anyway,
because every point was needed. She finished last, but the one point
she earned was the difference in the meet.

A Princeton, NJ resident, Jen Selder only started :wimming
competitively this season. “During high school, I played water polo,
but when I came here there was only a men’s team. I missed being
on a team, sol ﬁgured maybe I’ll try swimming.” She claims to have
swam before she could walk.

She got turned on to W&L because she knew the late Robert
Banse, a trustee that passed away this summer. “He was a really
great man, and he and his wife convinced me to come here.”

Selder has done well for W&L in her first year, scoring personal
bests in several major meets. She plans on continuing to swim for
the remainder of her college career.

“I really like it, and the coaches (Jacobs and Chris Budvitis) are
always willing to help me.”

These five women will hopefully be helping the Generals con-
tinue their streak of ODAC championships well into the future.

In the meantime, the team looks for the freshmen to help them
when they go to the ODAC/Atlantic States Championships Febru-
ary 23-25th in search of their seventh victory in nine years.

It Doesn't Take A Math Maior
To ltetlucelne cue

COICQOODOCOO.’.OOUOO.ICCOCC..COOiU>

SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.

$ TOYOTA

I Love Whu You Do For Me

 

