JAIN/aiiﬁ 
WA3Hi.’\‘€:'I’( I .9. L

 
 

. : li-?»7l~'».‘~‘.Y
}’Ni'./EQSITY

LEXINQTON, VA HQ)

GE?’ T. 2'27 1995

C ogrgree & ‘I/gage.‘

506127137 f0£'{ ‘me ﬂtacrs asrmxzgs
C‘ZlL’I’ll£/{£ rro am; QHQ 3

Volleyball ,

football

have big weekends

Iftiltg-111111 ighi  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 13, 1995

ert E. Lee remembered

 

x 3/
Q5 ‘,5
VOLUME 56, N0. 6 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
r
F
ii
A
4
A
M
4
4
Bets Gren, Phi Photo Editor
Mourning a lost era
' , ' -   . , V _ , _ -..-,‘,;,,-_.a, ,.
As the Liberty Hall Volunteers march into Lee Chapel, the W&L and Lexington community gather for
the memorial service commemorating the 125th anniversary of General Lee's death.

‘Off-campus Liberty users
‘plagued by e—mail pranksters

4,

4

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

student’s identity, saying that he was wondering if he was gay. The
student soon began receiving mail from members of the group, encour-
aging him to explore his sexuality.

“These pranks have proved to be really embarrassing and insulting for

In order to prevent e—mail abuse, off-campus users of Liberty, Wash-
ington and Lee’s on—line network, should take care to log out completely

after a session.

Bob Williams, W&L’s network and systems administrator, said he
has heard about 15 cases of e—mail tampering beginning last year.
Williams explained that the problem occurs when an off-campus
" user’s Liberty session is interrupted before Iogout. Off-campus Liberty
users must dial the university’s e—mail number, 463-8965, which con-
nects them with the server, which handles all e—mail connections.

A session can be interrupted before logout due to a power outage or
call waiting signals that can disconnect an off-campus user.

Whether the session is interrupted, or the user does not logout
completely, the university’s server does not receive signals that the
session has been stopped. Instead, it keeps the account open.

The next user who dials in is connected to the previous user’s account.
person’s electronic

The second user is free to send mail under that
identity or enter into user groups.

The most common abuses include sending threatening or obscene
messages under someone else’s e—mail or entering user groups.

Williams told of one student who began receiving messages from a
homosexual chat group. A prankster had entered the group using the

‘Gross speaks on Jefferson

4 BY DAN ODENWALD

Phi Executive Editor

Most, if not all, Virginia residents know what three
accomplishments are inscribed on'I'homas Jefferson’s tomb-

" stone. He authored the Declaration of Independence and the

Virginia Statute on Religious Freedom, and was father of
the University of Virginia.

According to Dr. Robert A. Gross, Director of Ameri-
can Studies at the College of William and Mary, he

‘should also be remembered for serving as Virginia’s ﬁrst

school superintendant.

In a lecture entitled “Educating a Citizenry,” Gross
discussed Jefferson ’s goals for education in Virginia around
the turn ofthe 19th century.

4 Sponsored by the Washington and Lee History Depart-

ment and the Society of the Cincinnati, Gross spoke to a full
house at Leyburn Library’s Northern Auditorium
Monday night.

Gross analyzed Jefferson’s belief that the health of the
‘young republic depended on the education of its citizens.

“Given the statesman’s European Enlightenment training

and revolutionary ideals, Jefferson wanted education for all.

In 1779 he proposed a bill before the Virginia state
legislature calling for public schooling of all white children
at public expense. Furthermore, he provided for grammar

«schools which would prepare the brightest students for

college life.

the people they’re happening to,” Williams said. “Although W&L is in
its fourth year with Liberty, it’s only now becoming a widely used tool.”
Williams said this is why cases of e—mail abuse are happening now as
opposed to three years ago.

While he’s not sure who the pranksters are, Williams has an idea.
Computer records show the identities, times and locations of
people logging in. These records can help him narrow the list of
possible culprits. They could be from either inside or outside
the W&L community.

He hopes to install a new server by the end of this month that will
receive signals whenever a session is ended, regardless of whether the
user logged out or not.

In the meantime, part of the problem could be alleviated if users would
make sure to logout fully every time. But users cannot anticipate power
outages or thunderstorms.

If you find yourself in another person’s account, Williams said, logout
immediately, and send him a message notifying him that his account
was open.

Williams said that masquerading as someone else on e—mail does not
ﬁt with the high standards of honor the school tries to maintain.

“People think that standards of decency don’t apply simply because
they’re using higher technology,” he said.

BY KERI ANNE DUNPHY
Phi Staff Writer

For many, Thursday was merely another
“same-old, same-old” day in Lexington. Per-
haps they did not notice the black bows lining
the columns of Washington Hall; perhaps they
did not think it strange that the bells tolled at
9:30 a.m.; maybe they did not see the color
guard or the Liberty Hall volunteers walking on
the hill; or maybe they were just plain oblivious
to the historical importance marked by Thurs-
day: the 125th anniversary of the death of
Robert E. Lee.

The memorial service held on Thursday was
instituted in 1987, though this was only the
second consecutive year in which Washington
and Lee colonnade has been wrapped in black
ribbons in honor of Lee’s death. Encasing the
columns in black ribbon dates back to October
15, 1870, the date of Lee’s funeral, when the
columns were lined in
black and Washington
College began to mourn
the loss of Lee.

This mourning re-
surfaced on Thursday
at 12 noon when the
memorial service was
held in Lee Chapel in
honor of the former
president of Washing-
ton College. The open-
ing procession featured

’ the Color Guard, "Col: "
Harry W. Gilmor Camp
#1388, Sons of Confed-
erate Veterans and the
Washington and Lee
Liberty Hall Volun-
teers. An opening
prayer was said by Dr.
Thomas V. Litzenburg,
Jr., the acting chaplain,
who prayed for the souls
of the dead, especially
for “Thy servant Robert E. Lee” whose spirit is
at home in Thy presence.”

After the invocation, President John Elrod
gave his welcome and his reﬂections upon
Lee’s impact on the university now called
Washington and Lee. Lee shaped the college,
said Elrod, by reconciling two seemingly op-
posing views of knowledge: the Greek ideal
and the laconian understanding. The Greek
ideal is that ofknowledge forthe sake ofknowl-
edge while the laconian vision understands the
importance of knowledge for bettering the hu-
man condition. Lee embraced both ideals, ar-
gued Elrod, and molded the curriculum and
character of the university accordingly.

Hand in hand with this respect for knowl-
edge, Lee instilled in his students a sense of
moral character, for Lee held that a trained
mind is incomplete without a concomitant train-
ing of character. Lee has bequeathed this vision
to us, and today, he said, we carry out his legacy
and salute his memory with our ﬁrm commit-
ment to the necessary symbiosis of knowledge
and character.

Following Elrod’s remarks, W&L Profes-
sor of History J . Holt Merchant introduced the
guest speaker, Dr. James I. Robertson, Jr., C. P.
Miles Professor of History at Virginia Poly-

 

technic Institute and State University.
Robertson, the author of several biographies,
including a soon-to-be published biography of
Stonewall Jackson, spoke of Lee and his les-
sons for us even today, 125 years after his death.

Robertson claimed that Lee is a key illustra-
tion of the nationalistic decline this country is
facing. He said we no longer have great ﬁgures
like Lee to emulate. Honor, duty and valor,
integral to Lee’s life, are words that have lost all
meaning and seem in danger of extinction.

Robertson quoted, “Mountains are a mys-
tery when one looks only at lowlands.” It was
“spiritual hunger,” he said, a searching for a
sense of this “mountain” ﬁgure, that brought
people to the service on Thursday. It is this
“spiritual hunger’ that makes us idolize Lee.
Sadly, he claimed, “no one like Robert E. Lee
lives today.”

But why was Lee a “mountain” ﬁgure for
this nation? After all, he did lead the South in its
quest for independence. Lee was selﬂess: It is
said that after a battle he went searching to ﬁnd
food for his men, not caring about the potential
risks to his own life,
and not thinking about
his own survival. Lee
had a strong sense
of duty.

Afterthe South had

been defeated, he ex-
erted his inﬂuence to
restore the unity of the
country. Despite the
fact that he was called
a traitor and was not
granted citizenship, he
worked hard to restore
peace in the torn coun-
try and insisted that
the South accept its
defeat and work to-
ward reestablishing
unity. It is Lee’s sim-
plicity, modesty, com-
mitment to duty, self-
lessness and faith, said
Robertson, that we
yearn for today.

Robertson asserted that it was “because of
Robert E. Lee that modern America lived at
all.” After the battle of Appomatox, Lee had
three options: to ﬁght, to surrender or to pursue
guerrilla warfare until the Yankees surrendered.
Guerrilla warfare, not uncommon in civil wars,
would have, argued Robertson, “destroyed
America forever.” Lee, aware of this, chose
instead to accept defeat. Furthermore, he de-
manded this of others. He held that all must
accept defeat and let the past be the past. He
urged the South to work with the North for the
common good.

Robertson told of a mother who asked Lee to
persuade her sons not to go to college in the
North. Lee responded, “Forget your animosi-
ties and make your sons Americans.” It is this
sense of duty, commitment and teaching by
example that made Lee the “mountain” that he
was, and it is this vision that lives on at “General
Lee’s University” today.

Finally, Robertson denounced modern “re-
visionist” scholars who try to taint Lee’s image
which, said Robertson, “cannot be scarred by
such ignominy.” His vision and ideal live on
today at the University and his name will live
forever. Robertson asked that we “leave him
alone in his glory.”

He also completely revamped the curriculum for the
College of William and Mary by eliminating all religion
courses and placing a heavy emphasis on the liberal arts.
Jefferson believed a college education should be secular and
avoid the trappings of theologians.

In his bill, Jefferson also provided for scholarships for
poor students. If a student was successful at the lower levels
of education, the state would pay for his higher learning.
The selection process was extremely rigorous. Few indi-
gent students actually were granted admission to William
and Mary, but Gross pointed out that Jefferson did not
believe education was for the individual.

“For Jefferson, education was an instrument of citizen-
ship (to be used in) service to the republic,” said Gross.

Ironically, Jefferson’s proposals were contrary to the
prevailing attitudes of the day. He advocated tax-payer
support for public schools and increased state govem-
ment control — two widely despised concepts in
revolutionary America.

“His plan was radically at odds with the society in which
he lived,” said Gross.

Ultimately, the bill failed. Virginia did not provide for
public education until the 20th century.

Gross believes that the legacy of the legislature’s failure
to enact Jefferson’s bills was an current educational system
badly in need of help.

Gross is the author of two books on revolutionary America,
TheMinutemen and Their World and Printing, Politics, and

Kappas and bikers unite in the KKG’s first prize Homecoming float on Saturday.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

the People.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Serbs continue brutal ethnic

cleansing around Banja Luka

BOSNIA, HERZEGOVlNA—As the United Nations’ planned cease
ﬁre between the Bosnian government and Bosnian Serbs was postponed
until Thursday due to inadequate power supplies to Sarajevo, Serbian
continued what ofﬁcials are calling brutal ethnic cleansing in and around
Banja Luka. Muslim and Croatian women and children living in Banja
Luka, a Serbian military stronghold and a refuge for thousands of displaced
Serbians, are being expelled from the town and surrounding areas while all
men of ﬁghting age are being sent to detention centers and what ofﬁcials
call an uncertain fate. The brutality of the treatment of the Muslims and
Croatians by the Serbian forces is being condemned by neutral forces, and
the Red Cross is becoming increasingly alarmed by the refusal of the
Serbian military to allow them contact with the thousands of men who have
been detained.

Simpson backs out on NBC

NEW YORK--In the wake of widespread criticism of what NBC
viewers called the extremely distasteful decision to air an interview with
O.J. Simpson, Simpson last night backed out shortly before air time. The
planned interview with Tom Brokaw and Katie Couric was to be an hour-
long, commercial and proﬁt-free first public appearance for Simpson since
his acquittal last week in the murders of his ex—wife, Nicole Brown
Simpson, and Ronald Goldman. Simpson postponed the interview in light
of the civil suit ﬁled by Ronald Goldman’s family, which is still pending,
stating that in his lawyers’ opinion, it was not in his best legal interest to
respond to certain questions which might arise in the interview.

Webber’s new contract grants

highest salary in NBA history

SHEPHERDSTOWN, WEST VIRGINlA—Chris Webber’s new con-
tract with the Washington Bullets will pay $57 million over six years,
setting a record for the highest NBA salary ever, excluding the now banned
balloon payments. This sum is likely to become a standard against which
the salaries of free agents like Michael Jordan and Shaquille O’Neal will
be judged in the coming season.

N eo-Nazi group assumes
blame for Amtrak derailings

HYDER, ARIZONA--On Monday, ﬁve Amtrak passenger cars de-
railed and crashed into a ravine, resulting in one death and over one
hundred injuries. A group calling itself “The Sons of Gestapo” is claiming
responsibility for the sabotaged tracks which apparently were responsible
for the crash. Meanwhile, government agents begin a sweeping investiga-
tion of both the crime scene and the typewritten notes left there, allegedly
by this neo-Nazi group. Federal agents and President Clinton have vowed
to bring the parties responsible to justice, but in the wake of the false
accusations against Muslim terrorists in the case of the Oklahoma City
bombing, officials refuse to place blame on paramilitary organizations at
this early date.

GOP WATCH

 

EDITOR'S NOTE: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Republi-
can Presidential Campaign in advance of
Mock Convention.

Candidates make history with

early ads in New Hampshire

MANCHESTER, NEW I-IAMPSHIRE—-It is four months until the ﬁrst
Presidential primary takes place in New Hampshire, but the Republican
candidates’ advertising in the state is already in full swing. It is the earliest
television campaign in primary history. Former Governor Lamar Alexander
of Tennessee has been advertising since June, and Governor Pete Wilson
of California began broadcasting commercials in late August. Neverthe-
less, it remains uncertain if early advertising will be effective.

Since Senator Bob Dole was pronounced the front-runner for the
Republican nomination this year, none of the other ten candidates have
come close to challenging his position. In a recent poll, Dole had 35 percent
of the vote whereas his closet challengers were in the single digits. Yet
there still remains plenty of time for new-developments, especially with
Dole’s weak showing in a recent straw poll in Iowa, and the fact that the
heavily favored General Colin Powell has yet to announce his intentions.

Buchanan’s tough tariff talk
rattles Republican Party

FORT DODGE, lOWA——Pat Buchanan, on a recent campaign tour
through Iowa, advocated a strict policy of economic nationalism which
sent shock waves through the ﬁeld of Republican candidates.

He supports a 10 percent tariff on every import from Japan and a “social
tariff” on products made in Mexico and other developing economies to
“insulate us from un-American competition with workers making 75 cents
or a dollar an hour.” Buchanan also encourages a ﬁve-year suspension of
all immigration until American wages begin to grow again.

As a surprise to his colleagues in the Republican Party, Buchanan
attracting large crowds and often placing second or third behind Senator
Dole in polls. The overall effect, many analysts believe, of Buchanan’s
tough talk is to drag the Republican party platform further to the right as
the other candidates attempt to embrace Buchanan’s ideas in order to
attract voters.

Beyond the Blue Ridge and GOP Watch are
compiled by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

A

 Mock Con gets
$10,000 grant

BY EMrr.Y BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The 1996 Mock Convention received a $10,000 grant
from the Ethics and Excellence in Journalism Foundation,
an Oklahoma City foundation. This grant is Mock Con’s
second largest source of funding so far.

The money will go to the Media Committee, which puts
together press releases and press packets for the news media
that cover Mock Con.

“Hopefully with this money, Mock Con will become
more of a learning experience for students,” said Mock Con
Political Chair Bob Ross. “We hope to provide students with
handson experience.”

Mock Con’s total budget is around $220,000. The Media
Committee's budget is $14,000. The Media Committee
plans to invite a speaker to talk about how the media shapes
politics.

“The money will help the Media Committee have more
activities that students can get involved in,” said Aloise
Bozell, one of the committee heads.

Not only will the money allow more students to get
involved, Bozell said, but it will attract more media attention
by allowing the committee to distribute more and better
press kits.

Mock Con’s largest source of funding comes from the
Sumner’s Trust from a Dallas organization, which contrib-
utes around $80,000 to every Mock Convention. Ross hopes
that Ethics and Excellence in Journalism will also become
a regular contributor.

“At the end of the year we turn in a report to them,” he
said, “and if they like what they see, it might happen every
four years.”

The Foundation was established in November 1982 to
support projects designed to improve the quality and ethical
standards of journalism in the media. The Foundation is
funded by Edith Gaylord Harper, whose family publishes
the Daily Oklahoman. The Foundation gives out ten grants
a year, said Roger Mudd, one of Mock Con’s media advi-
sors.

“They give money to a smorgasboard of journalism
projects,” Mudd said, including small journalism schools

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The Lexington Coffee Roasting Company will now have extended hours for
those in Lex who need a late-night caffeine and cheesecake fix.

Lexington Coffee Roasting’
Company extends hours »«

that request computers and writing workshops for small

newspapers.

Bozell said the Media Committee hopes to bring back the
McNeil-Lehrer News Hour, which came to cover the 1992
Mock Con. C-Span might also come, Bozell said.

Libertarians

EIHTTﬂTSlNOﬂIh Tﬂﬁsisthe
second of a three-part series
highlighting different political
organizations on campus.

 

BY CELESTE RASMUSSEN
Phi Staff Writer

 

One of Washington and
Lee’s newest political orga-
nizations is the College
Libertarians. President and
founder Jason Sorens started
the club at the end of last
year and hopes that its
presence on campus will
cause students to think more
philosophically.

For those not familiar
with the tenets of the party,
Sorens describes Libertari-
anism as,”neither liberal nor
conservative. It is liberal on
personal issues and conser-
vative on economic issues.
Basically, it is for limited
government and against
governmental interference
in social and economic
policy.”

Although the club has not
had an organized meeting,
its members communicate
by e-mail. Next month they
hope to sponsor a speaker,
Jacob Hornberger, from the

Drinking for science

Future of Freedom Associa-
tion. They also hope to spon-
sor a seminar along with
W&L’s other two political
party organizations, The
College Republicans and the
College Democrats. The
seminar would feature stu-
dent speakers and would be
an exchange of ideas be-
tween the different campus
political groups. In the
future, they would also like
to bring Libertarian Party
Presidential candidate Harry
Browne to campus as a
speaker.

As far as long-term goals
are concerned Sorens says
that, “We are more con-
cerned with the spreading
of ideas than electing can-
didates.” They are also in-
terested in increasing their
presence on campus.

Thefacultyadvisorofthe
College Libertarians is
Wayne Dymacek from the
Math Department. Sorens
urges anyone interested in
the College Libertarians,
whether an undergrad or a
law student, to get in touch
with him via e-mail.

MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

that night.

On October 25, students don’t have
to travel to fraternities for alcohol.
Instead, they can go to the General

Headquarters.

The Health Education Committee
and the Peer Counselors will sponsor
the 4th annual Controlled Drinking
Experiment. Representatives from dif-
ferent campus organizations will drink
one beer every twenty minutes and
then take a breathalizer test.

This year, along with the Controlled
Drinking Experiment, the ﬁrst annual

Mocktail will be held.

Senior Mary Lynn King, who
orgainized the event, said Mocktail is
a contest where students organizations
submit recipes for their favorite alco-

  

Valley 

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant News Editor

Lexington Coffee is now experimenting with
extended later hours. This past Friday and Satur-
day, the shop stayed open and was quite busy
until l1p.m. According to co-owner Melissa
Scholl, the idea of staying open later has been on
the table for a while. It was, however, the shop’s
May 1st move that played a big role in the
realization of that plan.

“The fact that we finally found a larger space
enabled us to be open late at night...Being open
late in the other space simply wasn’t viable
because we couldn’t fit enough people in there,”
Scholl said.

Before Lexington Coffee moved across Wash-
ington Street to its new location, Scholl got some
general impressions from customers about what
they would like out of the new shop. The two
most popular responses were “the same quiet,
intimate sort of atmosphere” and late evening
hours. Scholl says that it may take some time to

get those later set though.

“lt’s all on experiment right now... [We need]
to see when it is that people want to come in.“
We’re trying to come in. We’re trying to give it
the biggest window possible to see when people
actually want to be here.”

Scholl also stated that she and her husband and
co-owner, Terry, are willing to keep the shop open
late on weeknights as well, if there is a demand for ’4
it.

During the new late hours, Lexington Coffee
will be serving a few more desserts, like cheese-
cake and trufﬂes, rather than just the cookies and
biscotti that they serve during the day. Another ,,
new addition for the late hours was a guitarist on
Saturday night. Scholl said that the music was
well received and complemented the shop’s quiet,
intimate atmosphere.

“[The music] went over real well, so that’s
something we’ll try to do as frequently as we ‘
can...We’d be interested in some other instru-
ments, a ﬂute or a violin...”

Lexington Coffee is now open Fridays and
Saturdays until 11 p.m. and Sundays from 9 a.m.
to 4 p.m., in addition to their regular hours during ,,
the week.

Yearbook Pictures .
We want your face in the Calyx
All Independents, Freshman ’

Women, Phi Kapps
where: The University Center Room 108
When: Friday, October 13, 10-2
Sunday, October 15, 3-6 and 7-10 ‘
***Women may wear provided black drape if desired.
Men are encouraged to wear coat and tie.*** I

holic beverages. She said student rep-
resentatives will make the beverages

The beverages will be judged by a
panel of student and faculty. King said
the list has not been ﬁnalized, but Dean
of Students David Howison, Professor
Erich Uffelman, and Drayton Virkler
’97 are on the panel.

King said the ﬁrst place winner will
receive $50. Other prizes include Ari-
zona Ice Tea, t-shirts and gift certiﬁ-
cates to places such Sweet Things.

Chairman Mathew Smith said the
Health Education Committee will plan
other events during the year.

“We will be doing brainstorming
throughout the year to come up with
new ideas,” he said.

He said new members are welcome
to come to the meetings, which take
place every Tuesday in the Women’s
Center at 6:30 p.m.

  

 

 

A     9{o5Eie’5Lounge 7

  

Route 7, Box 99A

Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:50 p.m_

».
Betsy Green, Phi Phoo rtor
The Phi congratulates Homecoming Queen Caroline ‘L
Connolly  escort Lee Counselman.
SPRING BREAK - N assau/Paradise Island, Cancun
and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers, ‘
Parties, and Morel Organize a small group and earn a A
FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321
V

iliestaumnt and ;

0 L

"mama: smass Lexington, Virginia 24450 .3-

Hardware Paint and Related Items Near the Home Center ”

’ ’ Phone 464-9499
S . 1 - 5 . . ’~
un 463_2p1I8n6 Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?

 

 

"The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

 

K

 tress

By Rachel Goddu
Phi Staff W71-iter

Many moons ago the Faculty Ex-
ecutive and the Registration and Class
‘Schedule Committees put into works
the idea of a few days devoted to de-
stressing before Thanksgiving break
and catching up on homework. Thus
Reading Days were born...
-4»
This year's Reading Days fall on
Thursday and Friday, October 19 and
20, and, like last year a good number of
students will be staying on campus.
Studying will be a popular activity as
well as sleeping and hanging around.
In a survey executed last year by the
Registrar’s Office the following infor-

"Dead

V(7€o’L1'][e

 

relief/‘or the wear

are the students involved with the the-
atrical production Children of a Lesser
God. True to the maxim “the show
must go on,” Professor Martinez, who

mation was gathered. Out of 465 re-
sponses on a survey that encouraged
multiple answers, 43% of the students
who answered vacationed or at least
took a break during the days, with 40%
staying in the Lexington area.

Of those looking to the future, 1%
visited a graduate or professional
school, and 1% had a job interview.

46% of the students surveyed caught
up on past assignments, and 41% stud-
ied for upcoming academic assign-
merits.

Some students here at W&L will be
working as hard as usual during Read-
ing Days. Men’s and Women’s Cross
Country, Men’s and Women’s Soccer,
Football, Volleyball, Water Polo, and
Golf all have games on or the weekend
of Reading Days.

Also staying here for Reading Days

is directing,

one freshman from Washington State,
who claims, “On Reading Days I will
be rotting away in my dorm room,
weeping over the fact that I can’t go

home and ev-

said, “Rehears-
als are not can-
celed during
R e a d i n g
Days,” some-
thing the cast
knew before

...studying will be a
popular activity, as
well as sleeping and
hanging around...

eryone else
can.”
Some mis-

cellaneous stu-
dent plans are
clandestine fra-
ternity pledge
class trips, and
drives to visit

they audi-
tioned.
R e a din g

Days could have come at a better time
for W&L’s Theatre Department, as Pro-
fessor Martinez elaborates, “[they] oc-
cur a week before audiences arrive.”
Most students are nonchalant about
the brief respite, with the exception of

friends or sib-
lings at nearby colleges.

Last but not least among plans is the
ever popular and always enviable trip
home to Mom, Dad, and apple pie.

Sometimes we all wish we were
Virginians...

VWW»

 

 O O D

By Darcey Livingston
Phi Staff Wﬁter

Professor: Lisa Trevey Alty

Title: Associate Professor of Chemistry and Coordinator of Pre-
Med Studies Program.

Birthplace: Lynchburg, VA, where she currently resides.
Family: Greg, her husband of 12 years, and Issac, her14-month-old
son.

Pets: Max and Lizzie. (“They’re the son and daughter of Dr.
Russell’s cat. She didn’t want to take them to the pound, so she
conned us into taking them!”)

Greek Affiliation: Alpha Chi Omega

Professor Lisa Trevey Alty did not always want to be a college
chemistry professor. When she was a child, she was a bit more musically
inclined. “I thought that being an organist would be really great,” says
Alty, who began playing the piano when she was only seven years old.
“It wasn’t until late junior high or early high school that I thought about
being a college professor.”

Alty’s former teachers are the main reason she got into her current
vocation. “They inspired me into thinking that would be a profession
that would be rewarding—that it would be something that you could feel
good about at the end of the day when you went home.”

The professor loves her job for two main reasons, the first being the
chemistry department. “The thing I like best about being in the
chemistry department is the people that I work with,” relates Alty.
“We’re a pretty kooky bunch. Individually, we’re all very different
people, but all of us have a philosophy about being straightforward. We
saywhat we think to one another.‘ That openness is probably the best
thing about my day-to-day interactions in this building.”

Outside the department, Alty likes the quality of the students at

W&L. “The students here stimulate me intellectually,” she says. Alty
spends three afternoons a week in the organic laboratory, where most of
her interaction with the students takes place. “I really enjoy ﬁnding out
what makes people tick. I ﬁnd the students here very interesting people
to know.”

Alty believes that W&L students are in an ideal educational setting.
“This is the exception, not the rule, in university life, "Alty explains,
adding, "It’s a good exception because you guys have a lot more
personal interactions with the people who are teaching you——a lot more
than most folks do,” explains Alty.

Personal interaction is important to the professor, not only with her
colleagues and students, but with her family as well. In fact, Alty wishes
she could spend even more time with her son, Issac. “There are some
days when I only see him for two or three hours, because he goes to bed
at eight o’clock, and I have an hour commute from wor .”

Since Alty devotes most of her spare time to her family, she does not
engage in many of the activities she used to. “I sewed a lot of my own
clothes for work. I used to knit quite a bit. And, my husband and I
enjoyed going to NASCAR.” (Sewing, knitting, and NASCAR?
What’s wrong with this picture...?)

Prof. Alty explains that a number of years ago, her sister asked her
to get some tickets for the NASCAR races in Richmond. “I sort-of rolled
my eyes and said, ‘Oh gee,”’ admits Alty. However, her sister, brother,
husband, and she ended up going to the races that day. The experience
got her hooked.

“It’s kind-of boring to watch it on TV,” she concedes, “because you
don’t really get a feeling for the power of the automobiles and the skill
it takes to maneuver them at those high speeds in such tight quarters.
When you’re there, you really get a feel for how difficult it is for these
guys to do what they do every Sunday.”

Now, when Prof. Alty has a spare moment, she likes to read fiction-
especially Ken Follett spy thrillers. “One of his books that I liked a lot
was Night Over Water, in which I didn’t know exactly what would
happen until I read the last page of the book. That rarely ever happens!”
says Alty.

Presidents alive and well

PAGE 3

      
  

in By Kirk Suson_g_  V

 Phi Reviewer "r '-

Dead Presidents- 3 stars
¢

Twenty-year-old twins Allen and Albert Hughes made
quite a mark on the ﬁlm world two years ago with their
acclaimed debut, Menace 11 Society. And though much has
been expected of their follow-up, Dead Presidents, their
pager public will not be disappointed. Dead Presidents is
both well directed and well acted, and yet, much like their
first movie, it is poorly scripted. It is this ﬂaw which
prevents the beautiful ﬁlm from being an absolute classic.

Though it seemed like Hollywood had ﬁnally grown
tired of Vietnam ﬁlms several years ago, Dead Presidents
‘focuses on a protagonist greatly shaped by that war. The
story revolves around one Anthony Curtis (Larenz Tate), a
young black man from the Bronx who ﬁnds himself
directionless after graduating from high school in 1969.

at .

2

Though his parents want him to go to college, he decides to
join the military with two of his friends, Skip (Chris Tucker)
and Jose (Freddy Rodriguez).

The time in Vietnam produces the expected trauma, and
when he returns home in the seventies, it is to a world strange
to him. Jobless and prospectless, with hungry mouths to feed
and a cheating wife, he and some friends decide to rob an
annored car carrying old bills.

The ﬁrst thing to say is that Larenz Tate (O-Dog in
Menace 11 Society) gives the most amazing performance I
have seen all year. It would be a travesty of justice if this
young man didn’t receive at least an Oscar nomination for
this role. Tate’s character is young and growing, and goes
through all sorts of changes, from being an innocent young
graduate with a thousand hopes and dreams to a confused,
disillusioned veteran with little to look forward to.

In one scene that sticks out particularly in my mind, an
older, stronger tough guy has just shoved him down a
stairwell and now holds a gun to his face, threatening to kill
him. Rather than simply broadcast fear, Tate conveys a
dread mixed with the courage of a war-hardened veteran,

who knows both the horror of death and its inevitability.
This performance bodes well for the future of this young
man’s career.

As fabulous as Tate’s performance is, it would be a
shame to focus on it to the detriment of the rest of the cast,
notably Chris Tucker as Skip, Keith David as Kirby, and
Bokeem Woodbine as Cleon. Although not well-known
actors, they too are fabulously expressive; the only thing
that constrains them is the size of their roles.

Although the acting alone makes this ﬁlm worth seeing,
it is also an amazing sophomore effort from the Hughes
brothers. Since Pulp Fiction, we have seen a spate of ﬁlms
that loved style for the sake of style, artsy direction simply

to bedazzle the audience, without adding anything to the

substance of the ﬁlm (e.g., Desperado). Here, the Hughes
brothers manage to incorporate style without sacriﬁcing any
substance; the camera’s movement, its angles, even the
sense of editing is ﬂawless and contributes to our under-
standing of each scene. When we are amazed by the beauty
of a particular shot, it doesn’t exclude what is actually being
depicted on the screen, but magniﬁes and emphasizes it.

 

Nevertheless, this ﬁlm still has one gaping hole in its
construction: the script is lifeless, predictable, and tired.
Much like Menace 11 Society, the Hughes brothers devel-
oped one “story idea” and then let another person (in this
case Michael Henry Brown) actually write the script.

_ It’s not so much that the dialogue is not authentic or
something; the problem is more that the whole storyline
goes nowhere. This movie tells one very old tale, that of
youth being disillusioned by the tough realities of an uncar-
ing society, and tells it rather plainly.

The script doesn’t take us over any unchaned ground or
lead us down unexpected alleyways, but-instead meanders
its way through the same land that has been covered a
thousand times before, with varying levels of effectiveness,
in literally dozens of movies, from The Best Years of Our
Lives to Born on the Fourth ofJuly, passing/1 ll Quiet on the
Western Front and Rambo along the way.

As annoying as this is, it shouldn’t stop you from seeing
the ﬁlm. DeadPresidents is an amazing effort by the Hughes
brothers, and more importantly marks the emergence of
another ﬁne black actor. In a short amount of time, Larenz
Tate will stand beside the likes of Denzel Washington and
Morgan Freeman. Go see this ﬁlm now, before you lose the
chance to catch it on the big screen, where we can fully
appreciate the Hughes brothers and their cast.

 

  

, PAGE 4‘

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

W&L values all its history

Yesterday, the Washington and Lee community
took a few moments to commemorate the 125tli"
anniversary of the death of Robert E. Lee. The
pillars of Washington Hall were draped in black
crepe, and a memorial service was held in
Lee Chapel.

It is only right that we celebrate the memory of
General Lee. During his time here, Lee changed the
character of our school forever. His legacies include
the establishment of the journalism school,
improved academic standards, the Speaking
Tradition, and implementation of the Honor System.
Robert E. Lee made Washington and Lee a
better place.

This year also marks the anniversary of another
change that bettered life at Washington and Lee. It
is the tenth anniversary of co-education at
Washington and Lee.

Admitting women to W&L markedly improved
the academic standards of our university. It
increased the number of applicants and allowed
W&L to be more selective. In their ten years here,
W&L women have made their mark as athletes, as
scholars and as leaders. We should be proud of the
legacy of co-education, just as we are proud of the
contributions of Robert E. Lee.

Sadly, the administration has currently made no
plans to commemorate the ten year anniversary of I
fco-educ_q;2__1__tip“n.;tCl“l,iAe contributionsiof: alumnae and‘ .>~ .
current W&L women will not be recognized.

Washington and Lee is a school fiercely proud of
its history. To not celebrate the anniversary of co-
education is to ignore an important chapter in the
history of Washington and Lee.

Quote of the Week

“Yes, I admit I was looking at your ass.”

——Phi Associate Editor Michael Hewlett enlivens

l

PINION

 

If  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

  

Vi

Can we sacrifice ties to our land?

Nova
CLARKE,
’96

In his book, Blue Highways,
William Least Heat Moon travels
around the heart of America on the
rural roads of the title. The blue
highways of the title are those rural
highways, like Route 1 1 around here,
that go through all the small towns
and allow the traveler to see the coun-
try he is traveling through, as op-
posed to the strip malls and asphalt
travel plazas that are characteristic of
the huge interstates.

On the Outer Banks of North Caro-
lina the author meets an old man who
tells him that Jimmy Caner became
president because, “Hésliowed us he
came from the land. To an American,
land is solidity, goodness, and hope.
American history is about land.” The
members of the 104th Congress in
some ways seem to be working from
that premise about the central nature
of land in the American character.

The validity of this statement is
evident right here in Lexington. Part
of the character of the area is the land.
The surrounding Blue Ridge Moun-
tains cradle the valley and become
part of the memory of the years spent
here. When I go home to Miami, the
mountains are one of the things I
miss because they have been there
for all of the times I spent here.

In a more indirect way, the history
of this school and one of its name-
sakes is tied to the value of the land.
Part of the conflict of the Civil War
was the fact that the landowners of
the South were being told what they
could and couldn’t do with their land
and those that worked the land.

The American character is one
that resents anyone telling us what

to do with our land. Land is a
symbol of liberty and freedom from
the dictates of others and we resent
the idea of anyone telling us what to
do with it.

That is one reason that the Repub-
lican provision in the “Contract with
America” that expands private prop-
erty rights is so popular. Unfortu-
nately, it pits the survival of a species

One of the other bills moving
through Congress is backed by the
chairs of both the House and
Senate Resources Committees. Rep.
Young and Senator Murkowski are
both from Alaska, a state where 90
percent of the land is owned by the
federal government. The bill that they
have been backing would turn the
majority of federal land held by the

against the lib- BLM and other
erty oftheindi- government
vidual to do with ____.._ ..._.___ agencies over to
the land what  the states, who
he wants. would undoubt-
There is  aoapart     let the ma-
in Congress that acter of the area is {,ority_ of the éand
would require _ eprlvatize -
the government the land. The sur To some ex_
to pay a land-    tentlcan see the
Owner the 1088 of mountains cradle the '§aS°"S "°“i“d
potential return I 6 argument.
on ,,,,d if “S valley and become V6,, mm. of
valuernay be di- part ofthe memory of Alaska is owned
minishedb are- 17 Alaskaﬂsﬂlnd
3' the years spent here 3’
striction put on ‘ when people
[and usage to When I go home 10 don’t own land,
save a species. Miami, the moun_ thereisn’tasense

What this ig-
nores is one of
the other sover-
eignprinciplesof
ownership: the
responsibility to
take care of
what is owned.

tains are one of the
things I miss because
they have been there
for all of the times I
spent here.

of having roots.
Think of how
many people
moved out to the
suburbs so they
could have their
ranch house and
a lawn that was

Now we pay
land owners who
build in the ﬂood plain or don’t build
up to standards that will survive the
force of hurricanes or earthquakes.
We give people the freedom of land
without giving them the responsibil-
ity. Those people who build on a
barrier island should recognize the
fact that the land shifts and houses
are in constant danger of having their
foundations move on without the rest
of the house. Land teaches both free-
dom and responsibility, and the gov-
emment should remember that.

their own as a
connection to
the land.

In addition, parts of Alaska were
taken over by the federal government
after people had lived on it for de-
cades. I remember seeing a house
along a highway into Wrangell-St.
Elias Park, created in 1980, that said,
“The Park Service took my land, my
home, and my family.”

To Americans, the loss of land is
a loss of much more, for in some
ways it defines us. The land that my
grandparents farmed is part of the

history of our family and to give it up
takes away part of history. I under-
stand giving those who lost their land
some land in return. However, I dis-
agree with the suggestion that all
federal land should be turned over.

J ust as private property is part of
the history of the individual and the
country, the wild open lands are part
of the history of the country.

When Lewis and Clark traveled
to the Pacific, they were traveling
without cars, highways, and motels
where they could rest. The same goes
for the settlers who domesticated the
West; they traveled on trails with no
guarantee of safety and had to build
their homes when they arrived at an
unknown destination.

The federal lands in Alaska and
other parts of the U.S. should remain
federal and wild for the same reason
thatland is.kept in a family: to re-
member history. How are we to feel
a connection to American history if
the land is all covered in housing
developments and high-rises? We
won’t feel the connection to our
wilder past.

Alaska is the only ‘state in
America where you can still get 50
miles from a road and feel like the
pioneers of the past did. That attach-
ment is important because it is that
spirit that drives America forward,
and if we become too comfortable,
we begin to stagnate.

In his Desert Solitaire, Edward
Abbey writes, “A civilization which
destroys what little remains of the
wild, the spare, the original, is cut-
ting itself off from its origins and
betraying the principle of civiliza-
tion itself.” The members of the 104th
Congress should remember that when
they consider whether to give the
land over to private interests. They
might be turning the country away
from the proud history of individual
challenges and accomplishments that
they praise so much.

the Society for the Arts ’s poetry reading

flirt ‘ﬂing-mm lﬁlti

Executive Editrm

Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Fhristine Garnavish
Assistant News Editor Rethany Bauman
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Smut Boolrwalter
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor ‘May Green
Editorial Canoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Dr-ug Genner
Advertising Manager 1-nnifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Kane Alvord
Circulation Manager Stephen William

Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week 's edition. Letters, columns, and ‘My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Riug~tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current coun deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at ﬂaw‘ '

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu. edu

WASP culture, American culture one

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

When America first emerged onto the world scene,
when she first wrested her independence from Great
Britain in 1776-1783, she was unquestionably one of
the most dynamic and promising powers the world
had ever seen. Down to the present the American
people have maintained this vitality; America is
today, as it is commonly said, “the sole remaining
superpower”—an achievement which speaks vol-
umes about the enduring strength of our people.

But evenis‘ Americans today recognize the enor-

mous significance of their past achievements, and

even as they take pride in their continued dominance
on the world stage, they seem disturbed, pessimistic,
deeply cynical. Even the American left has picked
up on this theme; Hillary Clinton has called for a
“politics of meaning” to redress our country’s per-
ceived moral-spiritual decline. And of course Re-
publicans echo this view as well in their ballyhooing
over the issue of “family values.”

But why does America seem to be faltering?
We are, after all, indescribably rich, far richer than
any country in history has ever been. And our place
in the sun is not meaningfully threatened by any up-
and-coming powers (at least none that do not have
tremendous problems of their own). So why the
national angst?

Let us first remind ourselves of what a nation
is (faithful readers of this column, of course, will

-already" know). A nation, put simply, is a

community like any other—only, of course, bigger.
It is a group of people, an extended family if you will,

bound together by ties of language and history, and
usually also of religion and blood. A nation is never
founded solely on a political creed. The Socialist
International, for all its menacing strength, was not
a nation. And neither is America a nation if it is held
together only by shared political principles. A proper
national identity, in short, always includes an ethnic-
cultural component.

So when we ask why
the tired and disunited
America of today differs

we have come full circle. This is now a country, for
example, that systematically and legally discrimi-
nates against the very people who founded it.

In addition, WASP culture, once a rallying point
for Americans, has become the favorite whipping
boy of revisionist historians. Can anyone doubt that
most members of today’s cultural elite are funda-
mentally hostile to our nation’s established Anglo-
Saxon heritage? Is it only
coincidental that we are
awash in mandatory en-

so radically from the
emerging and united

CC

thusiasm for the contri-
butions of various mi-

America of 1776, we
mightofferthesimpleob-
servation that the bind-
ingforcesofyesteryear—
common culture, ances-
try and history-—largely
have been blotted out.
The America of 1776
was almost entirely
Christian; ofﬁcial Ameri-
can culture was exclu-
sively North-European
White and almost exclu-
sively British in origin.
Indeed, 75 percent of all
White Americans in 1776
were of English descent.
Of course, in the in-

...A nation is never founded
solely on a political creed.
The Socialist International,
for all its menacing strength,
was not a nation. And nei-
ther is America a nation if it
is held together only by
shared political principles.
A proper national identity,
in short, always includes an
ethnic-cultural component.

norities, and yet at the
same time, the traditional
heroes of American his-
tory, like Robert E. Lee,
are now under unprec-
edented attack?

We now hate
WASPS, in short, be-
cause we blame them
for having dominated
America for almost 200
years. But here we err
in our logic, for
America in truth can
never be completely
abstracted from the very
people who historically
have detennined her

tervening 200 years, a variety of immigrant groups
have contributed much to our progress as a nation;
but it bears repeating that each of these new inﬂu-
ences (however positive) was essentially an add-on
to what has remained an enduringly British core.
That explains, after all, why we speak English in
America and not Spanish, German or Dutch.

But now, 200 years after our country was founded,

basic character.
In the broader perspective of history, therefore, in
hating WASPs we are really hating ourselves; we are
rejecting a core element of who we are. And self-
negation, as any psychologist will tell you, is rarely
a healthy practice. This situation is indeed very
dangerous; no social ediﬁce can long stand when its
foundation stone is being eagerly picked apart.

I

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

OPINION

Late night, in the tunnels under W&L...

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

Setting: Late at night in one of the
darkest comers of the tunnels under
Washington and Lee University. Sev-
eral W&L professors and adminstrators
are gathered around with evil looks on
their faces.

Professor Cruel: Well, colleagues,
we meet tonight to discuss Dubyan
L. Student and his fate for the rest
of the week.

(A slide of our hero, Dubyan, ﬂashes
across a screen behind the professors.
Dubyan is a norrnal-looking guy in his
fraternity shirt and W&L hat. If you
look closely, you can detect dark circles
under his slightly glazed eyes.)

Cruel: Dubyan has had it too easy
lately. Our spies report that last week
he actually got some sleep. Now is the
time for us to all conspire against him
and make his life complete hell!

(The professors laugh ghoulishly
between sips of coffee.)

Professor Death: I’m Dubyan’s En-
glish teacher, so I thought I’d increase
the required reading for the class.

Cruel: Death, that’s not like you.
It seems so easy. C’mon, don’t let
us down.

Death: Did I mention that the extra
reading was the complete works of
Charles Dickens?

(The professors applaud Death
loudly until he calls for them to
be quiet.)

Death: Naturally I’m also assigning
a paper to be written about the reading.

Cruel: Excellent, Professor Death!

I’m sorry I doubted you.

Death: The topic of Dubyan’s little
paper will be, “What’s the meaning of
all of this, anyway?”

(More stomping and applauding
from the professors.)

Professor Pain: Wonderful, Death!
There’s no way he can address that in
less than a hundred pages even if he’s
being lazy! But that’s nothing on what
I have planned.

Cruel: How could you possibly
top that?

Pain: For my class, Dubyan will
have to read 450,000,095 pages of ma-
terial, all written in Russian, if he in-
tends to have a prayer on my midterm.

Death: But you’re a math teacher!

Pain: Exactly!

(Admiration and applause from
the masses.)

Professor Evil: Dubyan is going to
have a hard time getting all of that
reading done with the assignment he
has for my class.

(More cheering.)

Pain: Fabulous, Evil! What is it?

Evil: I’m making Dubyan go hear
four different speakers next week, then
write ten-page reactions to each one.

Cruel: Evil, that’s annoying, but it’s
not that bad.

Evil: Did I mention that three of the
speakers will be performing on the
same night and that one of them is
speaking in Baltimore?

(The professors give
standing ovation.)

Evil: Top that, Professor Unfortunate.

Unfortunate: In addition to being
one of Dubyan’s professors, I am also
his adviser. I plan to spend all of next
week calling him to harass him about

Evil a

LETTERS

his thesis, then hiding whenever he
tries to come to my office to discuss it.

Pain: Unfortuante, that’s delicious!
Dubyan’s only a freshman!

Unfortunate: Maybe so, but
don’t you think next week would be
a good time for him to start worrying
about graduation?

(Thunderous
the professors.)

Unfortunate: I’d also like to report a
bit of good news that none of us had
even thought to pursue. Dubyan seems
to be coming down with something!

(The excitement of the professors
is palpable.)

Cruel: And none of us accept late
work! What a stroke of luck.

Evil: But that’s not all. Gentlemen,
I have a suprise for you.

(Evil disappears into a dark corner
of the tunnels and emerges with two
W&L students, hands tied and
mouths gagged.)

Death: Evil, what have you done?
Who are they?

(Evil removes the gag from one of
the students. He is wearing a hat with
fraternity letters that match the ones on
Dubyan’s shirt.)

Evil: Student, who are you?

Bob: I’m Bob. Dubyan is one of
the pledges in my fraternity. I’m his
pledge trainer.

(A gasp of admiration for Professor
Evil ﬂlls the room.)

Bob: I hate to do this to
Dubyan. He’s a really good guy. But
Professor Evil told me I have to if
I want to get any sleep during my
time at this university.

Unfortunate: Enough of your whin-
ing. Next thing, you’ll be talking about

applause from

student autonomy. We want to know
what you’re going to do to Dubyan.

Bob (sighing): I’m to tell Dubyan to
report to the house for a cleanup. And
to get me a Stop-In dog from the Stop-
In in Buena Vista. My call is to come
when he’s about to take a nap and is
starting to enjoy a moment’s rest. Can
I please leave now?

Evil: Thank you for your coopera-
tion, Bob. Let’s hope Dubyan remem-
bers what you like on your chili dogs.

(Exit Bob. Evil removes the gag
from the other student, a pretty
young girl.)

Evil: And who are you?

Ashley: My name is Ashley. I’m
Dubyan’s girlfriend. Please don’t make
me do this.

(Ashley’s complaints are met with
boos and hisses.)

Evil: Speak, girl.

Ashley: I’m to tell Dubyan that we
need to talk. Regardless of his reaction,
I am to cry and tell him that he doesn’t
love me and doesn’t understand me. I
am also to scream and cry harder if he
does not stay and hold me.

(The professors laugh diabolically,)

Ashley: But I won’t do it! You
people are sick! I want nothing to do
with any of you.

Unfortunate: I’m sorry you feel that
way, Ashley. Because your schedule
next week just took a turn for the worse.

(Ashley is led out of the room
in tears.)

Cruel: On to our next victim.

(The slide changes, and every
member of the newspaper audience
gasps in horror as they see their own
faces reﬂected in a large mirror in
the darkness.)

Elrod invites W&L community to inauguration

To the editor:

My inauguration as the twenty-second president of Washington and Lee
University will be held on Oct. 21 at 11:30 a.m. Nothing would please Mimi and
me more than for you all to be there in full force to participate in the formal
opening of my presidency, and I take this occasion to invite you each and

everyone to that event.

The date falls on the Saturday following your two-day reading break. I wish

that it were not so, but this date was the only one available to us in the fall given
my desire to hold the inauguration before next spring and the crush of activities
at both Washington and Lee and VMI that makes scheduling any event very
difﬁcult at that time of the year. In spite of the timing, 1 do hope that you will plan
to be there and will look forward to your presence on that day.

John W. Elrod

President, Washington and Lee University

: ‘ ” ring-tum Phisjiorts coverage shows ’   ‘I
lack of respect for women’s soccer

To the editor:

I have a few comments about the Sports section
that I would like to share with you. First of all, why
is it that the women’s soccer team, and a few other
teams as well, are always reported on in “.lockShorts”
and are rarely allotted a full article? I’d like to point
out that the women’s soccer team has a better record
than either of the teams featured in the articles in the

Oct. 6 edition of the paper and that the game against
Randolph Macon was one of the team’s most impor-
tant games of the season.

Also, if you are going to limit coverage of a sport
to the “JockShorts,” then at least get your informa-
tion straight. The women’s soccer team defeated
Sweet Briar by a score of 9-0, not 8-0, as you
reported. There is no “Katie Jenkins” on the soccer
team; the player you wrote about is Katie Nichols.

Thanks for Homecoming
tradition of community

To the editor:

On behalf of the Alumni Association, we would like to thank the W&L
community for the tremendous support and assistance provided in the organiza-
tion and execution of Homecoming 1995. A very special thanks goes to those that
made the weekend possible: Randolph Hare and Bill Elswick, and the entire
Buildings and Grounds crew; Gerry Darrell and John Taffe and the Evans Hall
staff; Mike Young and Steve Tomlinson and the security officers, and of course
the faculty, staff and students for their participation and warm hospitality.

The sense of community that abounds here at Washington and Lee is very real.
Those of us here in Lexington have the privilege of living it every day, and our
alumni look forward to experiencing it anew when they return to this special
place. One alumnus told us that during this year’s Homecoming the University
had “cemented for this group [the War Years alumni] the feelings of camaraderie
and loyalty they had been missing for the past 50 years.”

We trust that future Homecoming and Reunion Weekends will continue to
provide an opportunity for the University community to come together and
celebrate this wonderful tradition of community. Thanks again.

Jim Farrar, ’74
Director of Alumni Programs

Rob Mish, ’76
Associate Alumni Director

Justin King, ’95
Alumni Staff Associate

 

Also, the women’s soccer team is not 4-0 in the
ODACs, but 4-1. I realize that the writers of

“JockShorts” may find these details to be minor, but

Via E-mail

DISCOVER
HOW OLIIRKY
WE ARE!

POETRY MAGNETS

400 magnetic wands
f0?‘ refrigerator sonnets.

ELVIS VOTIVES
Dine b candlelight
wit the king.

MOUSE PADS
Mona Lisa. Water Lilies.
Van Gogh sun owers.
Die-cut cat. Treation.
Hershey chocolate bar
Grateﬁil Dead
The Scream.

VENUS 8: DAVID

Dtsrobe them. Dress them.

New build-a-villa.

FROG CHARMS

Good luck and prosperity.
And maybe a prince.

DRIP CANDLES

Atmosphere in a
Chianti bottle.

POSTCARD HUMOR
500 titilating titles.
Mail them. Frame them.
Get a good laugh.

FISH PENS
Better than rubber duckies.
and they write.

caravans

ll 7 W. Nctrou Street 04643500
Dally [Own - 6pm o Sundays I lam ~3pnr
UPS layout home or oﬂlce

be assured that as a team member and a captain, I
would greatly appreciate attention paid to detail. We
work very hard and deserve proper recognition.

Ellen Wasilausky, ’96

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Career Fair

The Eleventh Annual National
Environmental Career Conference
and Career Fair will be held Oct.
27 and.28 at the Radisson Plaza
Hotel at Mark Center in Alexandria,
Virginia. The Conference provides
panel discussions, workshops, net-
working and field trips. The Career
Fair enables seniors to learn about
specificorganizationsand careerop-
portunities. For more information
stop by the Career Development and
Placement Office.

Career Test

There will be a Career Test Inter-
pretation on Monday, Oct. 16 at 4
p.m. in Room 108 of the University
Center. All students who have taken

the Myers Briggs and Strong-

Campbell Interest Tests and not had
them interpreted should contact Ms.
Saunders at x8595 to see if there is
space left in this session.

Freshman Elections

Freshman class officer elections
for president, vice president, and
EC representative will be held
Monday, Oct. 23. Students who
wish to run for office can pick up
a petition outside of Carol Calkins'
office in the University Center.
The completed petition must be re-
turned to the box outside of the of-
fice no later than 5 p.m. Monday,
Oct. 16. For more information con-
tact Sakina Page, VRB chairwoman,
at 463-2507.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present a reading by fiction
writer Lex Williford, author of
McCauley’s Thumb, Monday, Oct.
16 at 4 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Graduate School

Students considering graduate
school are invited to “Getting into
Graduate School: What Works, What
Doesn’t, and Why” Tuesday, Oct.
17 at 7 psrnuinrﬁathrenzlsuditoriums

W&L students are also invited to
the UVA Graduate School Day
Thursday, Oct. 19 from 10 a.m. to 2
p.m. in Newoomb Ballroom on the
UVA campus.

SLAC Job Fairs

Liberal Arts and Science ma-
jors interested in the SLAC job
fairs should submit their resumes by
Oct. 27.

Flu Shots

Student Health will be giving ﬂu
shots starting Oct. 15. The cost is $5.

Politics Panel

The Politics Department is spon-
soring a panel discussion entitled
“The Black Vote in the Republican
Party at Century’s End” Thursday,
Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Au-
ditorium. A reception will follow at
the Alumni House.

RACASA

October is Sexual AssauIt/Do-
mestic Violence Awareness Month.
Throughout the month, the Tie-A-
Ribbon campaign will display rib-
bons and thoughts in support of end-
ing this violence. Oct. 16 from 8 to
10 p.m. at Mary Baldwin College, a
bonﬁre and speakout will be held to
speak out against violence. The Vol-
unteerTrainingsession forWednes-
day, Oct. 18 from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m.
at Mint Spring United Methodist
Church will focus on child sexual
abuse. For more information, call
463-RAPE. Personal Safety Work-
shops will be held Oct. 21 from
3 to 5 p.m. at the Coalter Street
YMCA and Oct. 24 from 7 to 9 p.m.
at the Waynesboro YMCA. All ac-
tivities are free to the public.

Symphony Trip

Tickets for the trip to the
National Symphony Saturday, Nov.
4, can be purchased for $20
through Michelle Richardson, Stu-
dent Activities Coordinator. The
group will leave at 9:15 a.m., stop
brieﬂy for breakfast, and disembark
near the mall in Washington. There
will be several hours to shop or
sightsee, etc. At 7:30 p.m., the group
will leave for the Kennedy Center
for the 8:30 p.m. performance. Im-
mediately following the perfor-
mance, the group will leave for Lex-
ington and will arrive home around
1:30 a.m. The Symphony will per-
form works by Hartke, Bruch,
Mumford and Mahler.

  

Dr. Patty Westhafer from Mary
Baldwin College will be on cam-
pus Wednesday, Nov. 1, to consult
with students regarding teacher
education and licensure. If your
future plans include teaching,
please come by Fairfax Lounge
between the hours of 12:30 p.m.
and 2 p. m. to discuss particular
needs with Dr. Westhafer. If you
have questions consult Dean West-
Settle at x8746.

WELBOOE BACK!

SHEER TIIIIIIIQ

unntsnron
11 smnnorrnsrrzrztr
464-1145

$1.00 OITIIIITH THIS COUPON

SPRING BREAK '96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & G0
FREE! !_! Student Travel Services is
now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Da ona and Panama City Beach.
I 1-800-648-4849

Need some forftier for four resume?

the CaI_i/zgneeris an tufvertisirg man-

ager. Low time corrimitment, great

ezqperience. Ca[[fDarcey at 462-4029
for more information.

Wasﬁirtgton fl).C_. &’ Symyﬁony ‘T’ 11'}:
Saturcfay, ‘1\l'ovem5er 4, 1995

 

*'T':'cEets go on safe ‘lvlondhy, Octoﬁer 16from I
Qvticﬁeffe Ricﬂarﬁon-‘University Center/‘Room 103

‘$20.00 incfudes cﬁarterecf 5145 &' 2114' tier seat in
"tile Concert 9-(aft/Qcennedfy Center for tﬁe Natwnaf
Symfﬁony Orcﬁestra sﬁow at 8:3o‘J"JUl

 

 

‘ The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995
CARTOONS I

 
   

   

 

  

  
          
        
  

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

    

- V coRToRI>TI; make '
‘I \\.‘NE N—L Ixm-= To  - %
QT: \'\' (=0 on T\¥Ié\NI\*(. g M’ "% \'\EKEAFYER"' I 3;;
gm ‘{o\)'\JE (:6? To P~VN\\T, E ﬂ
WM‘; \-’>T\3«E LONQEST  ll 1
TN; CTN Nxs BF-EN  E
FXBLE To N>~NC> ON TO 2
we c\xRI=sTme smarr 2: E
“ I.I.+\\/IL§y
C H A O S by Brian Shuster
A
WIIY NOBOW LIKEQ A " ’ » §
_ LET ME GET nus STRAIGHT, BOB. COMFIETELY L\°NE$T
: THIs PLANET I5 CATCI-I-AND-RELEASE PH_o—\—_'_ g§;‘§;[’f;%§N § .,
: ONLY 50 I FIGHT THIS THING Folk A A I uzxs BEENTURNED I  t
5 AN OUR, A oNcE—IN-A-LIFETIME I ' ON gecwsg WE ‘ ex \ g
I T ROPHY, AND N<7>,I/Ix!‘ I GOTTA TRKKY mm ‘ §
I    . .. ‘é  UP”. :
:  V
 i
h

"Apparently, some kids hooked up your grandmother's
pacemaker to The Clapper."

 
 

*5 W?§5mf’*"..“*.. *5

  

‘4,‘a.‘a.'~'.‘5

.“.'»:=.‘-.'o.'«.i».;«,_a.v..a.

Nothing Else is a Pepsi   ALL STUDENTS '

ARE CORDIALLY INVITED

YOU’RE BACK AT SCHOOL To ATTEND
w& LAND PEPSI ~
WANT TO LET YOU Cﬂée J -
“PHONE HOME, ncuoyamaéomz _
onus

September 18, 1995 through November 17, 1995, look for speciaﬂy marked cans from
campus PEPSI Machines to win a “CONGO Phone Card” valid for 5 minute: of prepaid‘

phone time. can from anywhere IntheUS or Canada from any touch-tone phone. W
Bring your specially marked card to the SNACK BAR to receive your “coneo Phone Card” (  .  1'
1 AS
THE TWENTY SECOND PRESIDENT
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
AT 11:30 A.M.,
ON SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1995
ON THE FRONT LAWN.

A LUNCHEON WILL FOLLOW ON STEMMONS PLAZA.

In the event of inclement weather

1 C ‘A   ‘ M the inauguration will be held in Warner Center.

I

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

/"

By the Numbers  

 

AFTER SIX OF SEVENTEEN WEEKS

AFC

East W L PCT
Miami 4 1 .800
Buffalo 4 1 .800
Indianapolis 3 2 .600
New England 1 4 .200
N.Y. Jets .1 5 .167

Central
Pittsburgh 3 3 .500
Cleveland 3 3 .500
Cincinnati 2 4 .333
Houston 2 4 .333
Jacksonville 2 4 .333

West
Kansas City 5 1 .833
Oakland 5 1 .833
San Diego 3 3 .500
Seattle 2 3 .400
Denver 2 4 .333

NFC

East W L PCT
Dallas 5 1 .833
Philadelphia 3 3 .500
Washington 2 4 .333
N.Y. Giants 2 4 .333
Arizona 1 5 .167

Central
Tampa Bay 4 2 .667
Chicago 3 2 .600
Green Bay 3 2 .600
Minnesota 3 2 .600
Detroit 2 3 .400

West
San Francisco 4 1 .800
St. Louis 4 1 .800
Atlanta 4 1 .800
Carolina 0 5 .000
New Orleans 0 5 .000

LAs'r WEEK’s RESULTS
(HOME TEAM IN  V___

DALLAS 34, Green Bay 24
TAMPA BAY 19, Cincinnati 16
CHICAGO 31, Carolina 27
MINNESOTA 23, Houston 17 (OT)

PHILADELPHIA 37, Washington 34 (OT)

BUFFALO 29, N.Y.Jets 10
JACKSONVILLE 20, Pittsburgh 16
DETROIT 38, Cleveland 20
OAKLAND 34, Seattle 14
Indianapolis 27, MIAMI 24 (OT)
N.Y. GIANTS 27, Arizona 21 (OT)
Denver 37, NEW ENGLAND 3

KANSAS CITY 29, San Diego 23 (OT) (Mon)
* — NFL Record five overtime games in one week

(Atlanta, New Orleans, San Francisco, and St.

Louis had open dates.)

THuRsI)Av’s GAME:

Atlanta at St. Louis, night

SuNuAv’s GAMES

New England at Kansas City 1PM
Seattle at Buffalo 1PM
Philadelphia at N.Y. Giants 1PM
Detroit at Green Bay 1PM
Minnesota at Tampa Bay 1PM
Chicago at Jacksonville 1PM
San Francisco at Indianapolis 1PM
N.Y.Jets at Carolina 4PM
Miami at New Orleans 4PM
Washington at Arizona 4PM
Dallas at San Diego 4PM

(Open date: Cleveland, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh,
Houston)

MoNuAv’s GAME

Oakland at Denver

L

9PM

 

c ..-.,1. ».. ..,.,.........-

 

FINAL 1995 STANDINGS

American League

East W
x-Boston 86
y-N.Y. Yankees 79
Baltimore 71
Detroit 60
Toronto 56

Central
x-Cleveland 100
Kansas City 70
Chicago W.S. 68
Milwaukee 65
Minnesota 56

West
xz-Seattle 79
z-California 78
Texas 74
Oakland 67

L PCT GB
58 .597 ---
65 .549 7
73 .493 15
84 .417 26
88 .389 30
44 .694 ---
74 .486 30
76 .472 32
79 .451 35
88 .389 44
66 .545 ---
67 .538 1
70 .514 4.5
77 .465 1 1.5

National League

East W
x-Atlanta 90
Philadelphia 69
N.Y. Mets 69
Florida 67
Montreal 66

Central
x-Cincinnati 85
Houston 76
Chicago C. 73
St. Louis 62
Pittsburgh 58

West
x-Los Angeles 78
y-Colorado 77
San Diego 70
San Francisco 67

L PCT GB
54 .625 —«
75 .479 21
75 .479 21
76 469 225
78 .458 24
59 .590 -u
68 .528 9
71 .507 12
81 .434 225
86 .403 27
66 .542 —u
67 .535 1
74 .486 8
77 .465 11

x - denotes division winner
y- denotes wild card winner
2- denotes one-game playoff to determine

divisional champion

 

FIRs'r Rounu or PLAYOFFS:
(BEs'r or FIVE)

AL

Cleveland defeated Boston, 3 games to 0
Seattle defeated N.Y. Yankees, 3 games to 2

NL

Atlanta defeated Colorado, 3 games to 1

Cincinnati defeated Los Angeles, 3 games to 0

LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES:

(BEST or SEVEN)

TUI-:sI>Av’s GAMEs:

AL

SEATTLE 3, Cleveland 2

NL

Atlanta 2, CINCINNATI 1 (11 innings)

WEuNEsI>Av’s GAMEs:

AL

Cleveland 5, SEATTLE 1

(Series tied, 1-1)

NL

Atlanta 6, CINCINNATI 2 (10 innings)
(Atlanta leads series, 2-0)

FRIDAY’S GAMES:

AL
Seattle at Cleveland

NL
Cincinnati at Atlanta

8PM

8PM

SATURDAY AND SuNI>Av’s GAMEs:

AL
Seattle at Cleveland

NL
Cincinnati at Atlanta

7PM

7PM

J

Are qou a big fan
too? Then
come write for the

Phi sports
section! Call Scott
at 462-4059 if
interested. join a
winning team!

    

PAGE 

ATHLETES OF THE WEEK

    

Hilary Martin
Volleyball

Martin has made some huge contributions for the
Generals throughout the season, and the Goucher
Tournament on Saturday was no different.

The sophomore led W&L to five straight wins at
Goucher to earn the tournament MVP award. Count-
ing two games the previous week, Martin ﬁnished
with 66 kills and 13 blocks in the seven matches.

 

Griff Russell
Football

When W&L needed a big play late in the
Homecoming game against Davidson on Satur-
day, Russell stepped to centerstage.

With the Generals leading by only three, the
senior turned the lights out on the Wildcats with
his second interception on the day. In the first
quarter, Russell picked off a pass at the W&L 31.

9/995 Tm:/mu Irwnmnw ms) Amuuty rig-axiata}su.’(7ol1(_oe Rdimmul Eqnilw Fumi.

501' B COMDUIIHQ PTODIEM?

Try the NEW

5l'UdEl1l' COMDUIIDQ
Help Desk!

. Open for both
Walls-In and IEIEDHODG SUDDOIT

MOHUBY - TIIUTSUEY HOOD-5 & 7-9
Friday HOOD-5

Tucker Hall, Room 227
Phone HELP (4357)

   

IF ATL  YOU SUCCEE1), Om
TRY, TRYAGAIN.

n the latest DALBAR Consumer
Satisfaction Survey. a comprehensive
study of 2,000 financial service companies
— banks. mutual funcis. brokerages, and

insurers — TIA/\-CREF was voted the
leading provider of retirement plans.

We'll try to do better next time.

Not that we mind the recognition, it's
just that a lot olpeoplc expect nothing less
than the best from us. Over l.8 million indi-
viduals in higher education and research, to
be exact. And frankly. so do we.

Day alter day. for over 7 5 years, we 've

put everything we've got into giving our par-

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

CRHF certificates am daslﬁlzutczl by TIA/\—CRl£l" Individual and Institnntianal Services. Inc.

ticipants all they need to help fulfill their
financial goals and long-term expectations.
In the years to come, we'll work even
harder to enhance the level of personal ser-
vice and innovative solutions we offer to
help them build a secure and rewarding
tomorrow. Maybe that's why so many of the
best minds in the nation trust us not just
with their money, but with their future.
Find out more about America’:

retirement planning experts. Call us at

l 800 842-2776 weekdays 8 am to II pm ET.
or visit our Web site on the Internet at
http://www.tiaa-creliorg.

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Voruzvaau. - Beat Msrymount in ﬁnals to win Goucher Invitational;
W, 15-4, 15-12, 15-8, vs. Sweet Briar

Msooczn - L, 4-2, vs. Roanoke; W, 5-0, at Bridgewater

Wsoccaa - W, 2-1, vs. Virginia Wesleyan; L, 3-0, at Roanoke

WCRoss Couwrnv - Josephine Schaeifer ﬁnished eighteenth at the Paul

Short Invitational
FooraAu.- W, 19-13, vs. Davidson

MTENNIS - Chris MacNaughton and Dale Pretila advanced to semiﬁnals
in doubles at the W&L Fall Festival

PAGE 8

S

Ellie ﬁling-mm lﬂlri

PORTS  

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

'.!Z..13.i.S

Week:

Today at Hollina, 6:30 PM:

‘hut. V1 llandoIph- Macon, 8:80 PM

M8o1x:m-

Sat. at Hampden-Sydney. 1:30 PM
Sat. at Randolph “

, 8:00 PM; Mon.vn Cabrini, 4:00 PM;

Wad. vs. VMI at Brvwhakar, 6.00 PM

Wﬁoccuh
W1bnm-
Gou-

Sun. vm Havel-lord. 2:00 PM; Wad. vs. l.,ynn:l:bur;, 4:00PM
P:-L-Sun. in W&L Fall ‘lburnuy (Fri.-3:00 PM, Sat.-Sun.-$00 AM)
Mon-'I\:oo. at Fcrruna Fall Invitational

Cnnul Coumnv - Sat. at State Diviaion II-Ill Championships, 10:00 AM

Warm Pom -

Sat. at Goarp Washington EWPA Tournament:

Wed. vs. Richmond. 7:00 PM; Than. at Richmond. TWP"

OCTOBER 13, 1995

Refusing  
to lose

 

THE BIG FAN
BY Scorr BOOKWALTBR

 

Can anyone say the ,
word “Cinderella”? 5 '

It may be one of the
most overused terms in _
sports, but it definitely app-' '”
plies to Seattle, which up 
untilnowwas known more ._
for rainy weather and al-’ '
tentative bands than for
baseball teams. A

ButtheunderdogMari~
ners,sportingtheir“Refuse
to Lose” motto, have given
the Northwest aprominent . f

V place on the baseball map  _‘
inrecent weeks. _ ,1, 

>’S33ttle,:'WhlCh_'jWﬁSi .
mired in third: place in the ‘5.
 West .for',niost.of the *1
 summer, caught,t}reit1Sep~ ’
tternberto overtake tnesud~:

{ denly-punchless, Angels’
and the perplexing Rang-
ers to capture the division

l crown. Most of this was
done Without the services
of Ken Griffey, Jr.f;.:, who ~
spent the ‘summer; on the ,

. disabled list} . 1 . ‘ .

However, the Mar‘

'celebratedi’fthei'r-’=fitSt . 
pearance ever in the'play;~_ :
offs by promptly dropping?-’ 
their first twogarnes in
New York. ‘ ‘ ‘ ' v

One game away from a,
trip to the AL Champion-
ship Series, the Yankees
brought out their “Refuse
to Win” T-shirts. After
frittering away their two- A
game lead, the Yankees
were feeling very sleep-
less in Seattle before the 
deciding Game 5.

The Seattle Kingdome,
which had about as much
atmosphere as a mauso-
leum for the last decade,

. was rocking on Sunday
night when the Yankees, ,
and Marinersplayed a 
postseason game for the
ages. Intrue form, Seattle :
rallied back from two late -_

. deficits to win, 6-5, on
Edgar Martinez’s two-run" I
double in the 11th inning.

Seattle now is involved
in a David vs. Goliath se-
ries against the big, bad,
Cleveland Indians. Then
again, Cleveland would
probably rather take its
chances with David sling-. A
ing rocks than RandyJohn~ ‘"

A son firing 100-mph» 
fastballs. Ask John Kruk. 

   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Maybe Washington and Lee
should begin scheduling
Davidson on opening weekend
each year.

For the second straight year,
W&L defeated Davidson in the
fourth game of the year for its
ﬁrst victory. After winning 9-3
at Davidson last year, the Gener-
als downed the Wildcats, 19-13,
this past Saturday in front of a
Homecoming crowd of 4,500 at
Wilson Field. The triumph raised
W&L’s record to 1-2-1.

Atouchdown catch by Nick
Hodge. midway through the
fourth quarter proved to be the
decisive score, and Griff
Russell’s second interception of
the game preserved a crucial
W&L victory.

The win also gave Frank
Miriello his ﬁrst victory as Gen-
erals’ head coach.

‘‘It should have happened two
games ago,” he remarked. “We
played good enough to win the
last two.”

Unlike the Generals’ last
game at Randolph-Macon where
W&L rallied back only to come
up short, this time W&L grabbed
the early lead and held onto it.

The Generals got off to an
impressive start with a ten-point
first quarter. Freshman Chas
Chastain reeled in a 16-yard

touchdown pass from quarter-
back Brooks Fischer to get W&L
on the scoreboard first.
Placekicker Drew Thomas fol-
lowed that up with his ﬁrst of two
field goals, a 23-yard boot which
gave the Generals a 10-0 lead.

The margin did not hold up
for long as Davidson responded
with a touchdown drive in the
second quarterto bring the Wild-
cats to within 10-6 at the break.

Miriello mentioned that he
was disappointed with the defen-
sive play in the first half.

However, the defense would
come up big for Miriello as the
Generals pushed the Davidson
offense around in the second half.

Davidson only completed 14
of 37 passes on the afternoon.
Junior Peyton Williams, who
made six tackles and one sack,
and linebacker Travis Wisdom,
who was credited with a team-
leading nine tackles, were the
major defensive contributors.

Still clinging to their 10-6 lead,
the Generals appeared to put the
game away when wide receiver
Hodge made a 23-yard diving
touchdown grab in the corner of
the end zone with slightly under
ten minutes to play.

Thomas ended his streak of
20 straight extra-point conver-
sions, but the Generals still had a
seemingly comfortable margin
of 16-6.

The Wildcats, though, once
again would not let the Generals
out of their sight. Quarterback

Tommy Dugan scored on his sec-
ond one-yard touchdown plunge
of the game to pull Davidson
back to within 16-13. When
Davidson regained possession of
the ball with three minutes to
play, there were some unsettled
stomachs in the vicinity of Wil-
son Field.

Not Miriello’s.

“l have conﬁdence in the play-
ers that when the game’s on the
line, they’ll make the big plays,”
he said.

The coach proved to be cor-
rect as Russell picked off his
second pass on the afternoon to
effectually end the Wildcats’
hopes for a late rally. The inter-
ception set up Thomas for his
second 23-yard field goal of the
game with 1:55 remaining to ex-
tend the margin to 19-13.

“Griff is a great young man,”
Miriello commented. “He’s get-
ting better and gaining more con-
ﬁdence each week.”

Davidson had one last gasp,
but Dugan, harassed by defen-
sive tackle Robert Hull deep in
the Davidson backﬁeld, threw
away a fourth-down pass to ice
the W&L victory.

Sophomore Seth McKinley
made a dramatic return to the
W&Lstartinglineupfollowinga
shoulder separation as he rushed
for exactly 100 yards on 21 car-
ries. Junior Aaron Wilkinson
also picked up a large chunk of
the rushing load with 62 yards on
only eight attempts.

Generals hold off Davidson for first victory

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

W&L snared its first victory of the season on Saturday against Davidson.

Junior quarterback Brooks
Fischer completed 12 of his 19
passes for a total of 135 yards.

Tomorrow, the Generals travel
to Hampden-Sydney for an ODAC
contest with the Tigers, a team
which won a 21-17 decision last
year on W&L Parents’ Weekend.

W&L has played Hampden-
Sydney (2-3) more often than any
other college. This game will be
the teams’ 53rd meeting in a se-

Unless the Mariners”
begindroppingceilingtiles ,
from the Kingdome roof 1" ”
onthe Indians, this is likely;
where Seattle’s partyends

Elsewhere, the Rookie.
shut up the tomahawkerst 
in Atlanta for onejgam ‘
butCo1oradowa  i’ ‘  _:§{

  
    

    

Series. The
blewtheir item

 
   

overtime games‘ this V past t
. weekend. One occurred in
Miami, where the previ-
ously unbeaten Dolphins
somehow managed to
torch a 24~3 cushion to
the...uh...Colts. Also, AFC I
power Pittsburgh got
bounced by suddenly dan-
gerous Jacksonville.
Things were wilder in

Texas A&M, both Top 10 qt
teams, were upset. In the

. shocker of the day, North-t '
western beat a previously

W&L volleyball

continues its
winning ways

 

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staff Writer

 

Washington and Lee’s vol-
leyball team captured first place
at the Goucher Invitational this
past weekend with wins over
Sweet Briar, Marymount, Stock-
ton State, Goucher, and
Marymount again in the ﬁnals.

These five wins, coupled
with two wins last week over
Lynchburg and Emory & Henry,
and Wednesday’s 15-4, 15-12,
15-8 home victory over Sweet
Briar, capped off a perfect week
for W&L.

The Generals have now taken
sole possession of ﬁrst place in
the Old Dominion Conference.
Their performance this week has
virtually assured the Generals a
spot in postseason play.

Led by Goucher tournament
MVP Hilary Martin, the Gener-
als have begun to hit their stride
this season.

When asked about the team’s
perfonnance this year, Martin
replied, “We’ve had our share of
roadblocks, but we’re well on
our way to playing like we’re
capable of playing.”

Sophomore Alison Beard,
who had 15 assists and four aces
in the championship match with
Marymount, agreed that the Gen-
erals are “playing excellent, de-
spite a slow start this season.”

Both Martin and Beard were
named to the all-toumament team
for their outstanding individual
performances at Goucher.

However, both were quick to
point out that the tournament wins
would not have been possible
without excellent play from the
entire team.

  

“We’ve been thrilled with our
team effort,” said Beard, who
had 17 more assists in the Sweet
Briar match. “Everyone has
stepped up and played solid ball.”

The Generals have four re-
maining games this season, three
of which are conference matches.
They also play in the Gallaudet
Tournament starting next week-
end. These ﬁnal games are all
that remains of a season in which
the Generals entered with high
hopes and deﬁnitive goals after a
strong ﬁnish last year.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The Generals’ volleyball team has been extremely
successful the past week, capturing eight straight
games, including the Goucher Invitational title.

 

One of these goals was to
ensure that they played up to
their abilities and not play down
to their opponents’ level.

If its record of 20-4 is any
indication, W&L has certainly
accomplished this goal.

However, W&L’s primary
objective of the season is to win
the ODAC Tournament. This
ultimate goal will only be ac-
complished by combining per-
severance with teamwork, and
its realization will be the basis
by which to judge this season.

r the colleges. Colorado and. I

undefeated Michigan team
inAnnArbor. Yes, North- vi
western,the sameteamthat
was so pathetic during the
‘80s that a disgruntled fan
once found an Interstate
94 Sign inthe Chicago area,
and plastered a sign under-
neath it which read,
“Northwestern 0”. ' ,

Yet, all of a sudden, the
is Wildcats are leading the
i Big Ten conference. Re»
: member, even Cinderella
; made it to the dance.

Women’s soccer has
strong stretch run

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The women’s soccerteam continued to
build on this year’s success, scoring two
different but equally impressive wins this
past week over ODAC rivals Sweet Briar

and Virginia Wesleyan.

To say the least, Sweet Briar was not a
challenging opponent last Wednesday, as
the Generals rolled, 9-0. Junior Michelle
Bauman scored the soccer equivalent of a
hat trick, recording three goals and an
assist all in the ﬁrst half against the hap-

less opponents.

Sophomore Erica Reineke reached the
net twice, and freshman Karin Treese
posted two goals and two assists.

Virginia Wesleyan proved to be more
of a challenge, but the large Homecoming
crowd at Liberty Hall Field spurred the
Generals on to a dramatic 2-1 victory in
With the win, the Generals
avenged two losses at the hands of VWC
last year, including a heartbreaker in last
year’s ODAC Tournament semiﬁnals.

The Generals broke the defensive dead-
lock late in the second half on Saturday as
Reineke scored on assists from freshman
Caroline Keen and sophomore Leighton
Kirby. But withjust three minutes left, the
Lady Marlins answered to send the game

overtime.

into overtime.

In the extra period, Keen secured the
win for the Generals, tapping one past the

for them.”

letic Conference.

This weekend, the Generals will
travel to Haverford for a Sunday af-
ternoon non-conference game.

goalie on an assist from Bauman.

When asked what has been the key
to the Generals’ success, Reineke cited
the team’s incredible talent and depth.
“We have so much talent. We have
such a strong bench that anyone who
comes in can do the job.”

She explained that this can prove
to be the difference in grueling games
like Saturday ’s contest, saying, “When
someone goes on the ﬁeld, they can
give 100 percent all the time because
they know they have someone behind
them who can come in and do the job

As W&L begins to look ahead to
this year’s ODAC Tournament,
Reineke said the team will concen-
trate on improving communication
and sharpening focus on key games,
such as Thursday’s at Roanoke, which
decided second place in the ODAC.

The Generals, however, could not
sustain their momentum in Roanoke
as the Maroons blanked them, 3-0.

W&L contained Roanoke most of
the way, but the Maroons scored all
three of their goals in a span of only
4:58. Sophomore Delia Coyle al-
lowed all of Roanoke’s goals.

Despite the loss yesterday, the Gen-
erals’ mark still is an impressive 7-2
overall, 5-1 in the Old Dominion Ath-

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH
with America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!
Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-

ries which the Tigers currently
lead, 27-23-2.

According to Miriello, the
key to success for the Generals
will be if they can control the
Tigers’ running game; therefore
forcing them to throw the ball.

However, Miriello was
pleased to ﬁnish with the larger
number on the Wilson Field
scoreboard for a change, before
making the trip to Hampden-

Sydney tomorrow.

In fact, the scoreboard was
adorned this past week with a
blue falcon in memory of late
Generals’ head coach Gary
Fallon. Miriello feels that the
Generals may have drawn some
inspiration from the banner
throughout their ﬁrst win since
the death of their former leader.

“We finally got one for
(Fallon),” Miriello said.

Men endure .500
Week in ODAC

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L men’s soccer team split a pair of games against
conference rivals this past week to bring their overall record to 6-4,

3-4 in the ODAC.

Saturday’s match at Liberty Hall Field was against Roanoke, the
defending champions of the ODAC. Roanoke struck early, grabbing
a one-goal lead a mere three minutes into the contest. W&L tied it
up when Sam Chase rose above the crowd to head Gordon Meeker’s
corner kick into the back of the net.

After going to the locker room at halftime with a 1-1 tie, the
Generals drew ﬁrst blood in the second half. Chase connected again
on a header, this time with assists from sophomore Colin Connolly

and senior Jeb Wofford.

After Washington and Lee took the lead, Roanoke showed the
Generals why they are the defending conference champs. The
Maroons came roaring back, piling up three goals in only eleven
minutes. That scoring barrage was enough for Roanoke to go home

with a 4-2 victory.

After the stinging loss to Roanoke, the Generals took out their
frustration at Bridgewater on Wednesday. Chase continued pound-
ing balls into the net. He scored a hat trick and assisted on another
goal to lead W&L to a 5-0 win. The freshman from Atlanta now has

13 goals in 10 games.

Chad Dobbins and Brent Christ also tallied scores for the Gener-
als in the Bridgewater game. Jeb Wofford, Bill Sigler, and Geoff
Wright found their way into the assist column.

The Generals will look to bring their conference record back to
.500 when they face Randolph-Macon at Ashland on Saturday.

DENT TRAVEL (800) 95-BREAK!

  

  
    
   

 

European Union

    
   

 
  

Costa Rica

France

STUDY ABROAD

Tuesday, October 24

Spring Term,
Semester, or
Full year

Room 114 University Center

Denmark

China

     

7:00 p.m.

Germany

General Information Meeting

on

at

1n

J upan

Limited
Financial Aid
. Available

England

   

  

  

  
     
   

Hung‘ Kong

 

 

 

     
    
  

sofiedeleg)

