 

d

is

V

JAMES:  i.sv!3i.i.:=.~.«
wAsHws.roN 2. LEE

Lﬁxlbﬁw, 

   

an ex/oo./re’

(D

CIHZEI1 KTUDD: Mixed drinks:
boon or boomioggle?

 
 

(9

hi: Etna um Iﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Courtesy of Lesbian Dolphinsglric.

Inha1e...exhale

Radical PCW leader Greta Von Braun leads demonstrators and others in an exercise to allow them to
feel the pain and the anguish of being a lesbian dolphin.

Troika denies ad to group

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 29, 1996

W&L demonstrates
for lesbian dolphins

BY LITTLE WElNER Enrroa
Warrior for the Politically Correct

The Washington and Lee chapter of the
Politically Correct Warriors, also known as
PCW, held a demonstration on the Front Lawn
on Tuesday afternoon in support of saving
lesbian baby dolphins. This is the third demon-
stration the PCW has held in the last month.

“The slaughter of lesbian baby dolphins has
been completely ignored by the mainstream
press,” said PCW President Owen “Tree-Licker”
Labegia-Rodriguez. “Feel their pain, God
dammit!”

Labegia-Rodriguez, a junior majoring in
Feminist Studies, has also led other campus
demonstrations calling for the banishment of
Western studies and the return of Sexpert Suzi
Landolphi.

PCW distributed informational literature
aimed at raising awareness of the plight of
lesbian baby dolphins. According to one mate-
rial, Flipper’s wayward daughter, an acknowl-
edged homosexual, was caught and drowned in
a French ﬁshing net.

~ The French skipper was report_e~d_to have
said, “No nukes, no tuna, no'mon'ey — I don’t
care which side that dolphin’s bread is buttered
on as long as I can spread tuna on that bread.”

University officials refused to comment on
the group’s message, but did object to the
widespread use of mushrooms by the demon-
strators.

“Why can’t these kids get high in their frat
houses,” complained Dean of Greek Affairs
Buddy Atkins. “We wouldn’t bust them there
— especially if they had a special predisposi—
tion for lions.”

The crowd began to disperse in the early
afternoon, but returned shortly thereafter with
kegs of beer plastered with “Buchanan for Presi-
dent” bumper stickers.

When asked about the seeming contradic-
tion, Labegia-Rodriguez informed the media
some members of PCW had beat up some Mock
Con people on their way to a party and stole
their kegs.

The main attraction came when the Indigo
Girls, a popular folk music duo, traveling
through Lexington on way to a gig in
Charlottesville, stopped by campus and partici-
pated in the demonstration. They played for
two hours punctuating their performance with
calls for tolerance of minority groups.

“I’m not sure I’d sleep with a dolphin, but
they should be free to do in their bedrooms what
other dolphins do. Wait, dolphins don’t have
bedrooms, do they? Well, they can frolic in the
coral reefs then. But what if the coral reefs are
all extinct...” Indigo Girl Amy Ray pondered.

The event was ﬁnally broken up after dark
when patrolmen from the Lexington Police
Department began ticketing those who were
carrying open containers.

‘‘I think the event was a success,” said
Labegia-Rodriguez. “If we saved just one
lesbian baby dolphin today, then it’s all been
worth it.”

The Troika’s office) NMQ: Oh. Okay. So, ah, why didn’t you
BY NELSON M_QU,RKE Chrisford Holewick: What in the holy run it? O _ _
Phi staff writer fuc*ing f*ck do you want? CH: It was inappropriate subject matter. We

Flyers appeared Cadaver Society-like across
campus this week as The Troika, the quasi-
independent leech newspaper of Washington
and Lee, was reprimanded by the Washington
and Lee Racquetball Union for not running
their ad providing information about how to
join and participate in the new group.

The ﬂyers claim that “The Troika sold our
group space for (a somewhat larger version of)
this ad in this issue, knowing which organiza-

' tion was purchasing it. At the last moment

before going to press, they informed us that
they would not run it because of its ‘subject
matter.”’ I

The reprinted ad contained basic contact
information and a logo consisting of pictures of
George Washington and Robert E. Lee with the
heading, “Washington and Lee Racquetball
Union.”

This reporter conducted an interview with
Chrisford Holewick, one of the co-editors and
the business manager of The Troika, yesterday.
It is reprinted here in full:

Nelson M. Quirke: Hello? (through door of

NMQ: Uh...here for the interview?

CH: Oh, sorry. What do you want to know?

NMQ: Are you going to open the door?

CH: What are you now, the f*c*i*g
Gestapo?

NMQ: Like I said, I’m the reporter.

CH: Oh yeah. Sorry. What do you want
to know?

NMQ: Are you going to open the door,
then?

CH: This door is not going to be opened! If
you have a question, you would be doing your-
self a favor if you’d ask it!

NMQ: Okay! Why wouldn’t you run the
Racquetball Union ad last week?

CH: We lost it.

Unidentiﬁed female voice from inside: lt’s
right here!

NMQ: Uh, so did you lose it?

Unidentiﬁed female voice from inside: lt’s
right here!

(Sounds of a short scufﬂe.)

CH: Yeah, we lost it.

NMQ: But the girl just said it was right there.

CH: That’s just your paranoid schizophre-
nia talking.

lost the ad. We don’t have to run anything;
we’re independent. It was clearly implying that
General Washington and General Lee had been
racquetball players.

NMQ: Excuse me?

CH: Pick one.

NMQ: Actually, that was the point of me
asking you.

CH: Well, tough s*it.

NMQ: But how do you mean, it im-
plied that Washington and Lee were
racquetball players? Why exactly would that
worry you?

CH: Sure, we should just let them use our
paper to imply that our founders were a couple
of racquetsuckers. R-A-C—Q-U-E-T-B-A—L-L.
Notice anything? Like a ‘Q’? Take my hint, Q-
U-I-R-K~E? Now why don’t you just back
away from the door? Git.

NMQ: Oh, ah...oh. Okay. Just one last
question?

CH: What, g**dammit?

NMQ: What exactly is the air like on
your planet?

CH: lt’s good old Troika air. Racquetball I

ain’t the only thing we don’t like.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
      
   
  
 
 

_.un$eling services; .-
'the.gbehg§vior   _.

  

Gop WATCH

   

Editor’s Note: GOP Watch is a
regular election. season feature
designed to warn you should Pat
Buchanan decide to come to town
so you can hide your valuables.

Buchanan saves U.S.
from the Canadians

Although Pat Buchanan has absolutely no chance of
winning the Republican presidential nomination, he is
continuing with his campaign in order to inﬂuence the
party’s platform. Along with his isolationist economic
policies, Buchanan is advocating building a “really big
wall” to “keep those damn Canadians” out of the United
States as well as the revocation of all driver’s licenses
for women.

Samoa to leave GOP

Pago Pago—After being entirely ignored during the
race for the Republican presidential nomination, the
Republican Party of American Samoa is threatening to
secede and forge its own party. The Republican National
Committee responded to this late-breaking development
with profuse giggling, smokers and jeers.

BEYOND THE

BLUE RIDGE

 

After extensive studies, researchers have concluded
that the world beyond the Shenandoah Valley no
longer exists.

The search for more extensive information surround-
ing this phenomenon continues. Experts speculate that
the cuas could have been anything from a nuclear disas-
terto natural selection finally eliminating all but the most
perfect members of the human race.

Officials do agree however, that, as there is nothing
Beyond the Blue Ridge, this column is obsolete.

Photo by Elsbeth Von Wasser

Flags at hﬂalf-mast

Rebel Confederate forces surrendered to government forces this week in Lee Chapel,
admitting they were really just a bunch of old, middle class white people.

 

 

Page 2

 

w&life

REAL

 

LENA P. KRUMPWEILLER
PHI SPECIAL FEATURES CORRESPONDENT

This is the story of seven students picked to live in a house together. "Real
World", MTV’s hit documentary has come to Lexington. They recently revealed
that since they couldn’t get the Rock the Vote Van down here for Mock
Convention weekend that Lexington would be the site of Real World VI.

When MTV announced the new site location and, in addition, the show would
include a new change in the fact that all participants would be chosen from the
town of Lexington. Auditions were set, and the selection process began. Now
you can meet the seven students (and a townie) whose lives you will get to live
vicariously for the next six months.

First from down-home Georgia, John Davis Jefferson Lee, Junior. He is
currently a senior Economics major and his favorite pastimes include drinking
beer and listening to Dave, (you know, the guy who sings that Ants marching
son .

I%)ext we have Mary Lou Virginia from Texas. She is proud of her hometown
heritage, and hopes to make it home this year for her coming—out party. This is
her second year at W&L, and although her mamma went to Sweet Briar, her father
and his father and way back when have all been graduates of the good ole
Generals. She is an English major and hopes to someday marry well, practice law.

Virginia Military Institute in a landmark Supreme Court decision decided to
allow one if its students, Bud “Big” Arms, to live off—campus for the six-month
filming process. Bill hopes to enter the Marines as an ofﬁcer in two years, and
is thankful once again that his rat year is over and he can now start bossing around
the new recruits.

When asked about living with Washington and Lee students, Bud replied,
“Wimmen, did you say I will be living with wimmen?”

I

The Ring-tum Phi, Marcia 29, 1996

John Davis is concerned that “some of the animosity sponsored by them there
boys in uniform will cross over to the living conditions, I wouldn’t want to have
ta throw no one out.”

The fourth roommate actually lives in Rockbridge County He graduated from
Rockbridge High in 1984, and is named after his uncle, Bo Duke. His interests
include riding around town in his 1979 Dodge pick-up truck with a gun rack on
top (no gun) and leering at anything with long hair two legs, and no Adam's apple.

“I think all those W&L wimmen are just snobs, nice-looking snobs, but snobs.
I don’t know about living with them, but the SEM chick, she should be fun,” said
Duke.

The SEM chick he is referring to is none other than Elizabeth (Lizze) Lane.
She hails from Floyd, Virginia, and after ﬂunking out of community college her
parents sent her to the SEM in the hopes that she could marry a Washington and
Lee student.

“I’m looking forward to living with all those people, ljust can’t imagine what
we are going to do about the bathrooms. I have always had my own bathroom and
I don’t know what I would do if I had to share one,” said Lane.

An exchange student, Jean—Luc Peeair, will be living with them also. His
native home is blocks away from the Eiffel Tower and although he is used to
living with his...ummm...“friend,” he feels that the small province of Lexington
might be a little lonely. The Frenchman notes that “Americans have quite a
rugged appeal.”

The seventh member of the house is actually a dog. Rex has appeared in such
cool commercials as Purina, the better chow, and Kibbles and Bits and Bits. His
trainer, a professor of politics at Washington and Lee, feels the exposure he will
gain on MTV may launch him into a starring role in a Pauly Shore ﬁlm.

The crew of seven strangers will move into the newly refurbished house on
Washington Street at the beginning of September, 1996. MTV crews will spend
all summer installing cameras around the house, and crews will be following the
students to class, and B0 on his trips to Stop-In.

We’ll have to see how the lives of these seven individuals change in the next
six months. Inside sources say the Jean—Luc will reveal a painful secret, and John
Davis and Rex will become very “close.”

Natural Light Beer commercial

FLOWER SPRING
PHI WRITER

Washington and Lee University was chosen as the new location for the
ﬁlming of the latest Natural Light Beer commercial.

The company first heard about Washington and Lee by watching the Mock
Convention on C—SPAN. One of the top level advertising executives realized
that the strongest supporters of Pat Buchanan were also drinkers of Natural
Light, and from the looks of the delegates, heavy drinkers.

He felt that the school could perhaps provide the new image Natural Light
is looking for. They no longer want to be known as “that cheap beer,” and
instead want to cultivate a reputation as a beer of choice among fraternities.

Natural Light sent four representatives to “feel” out the possibility of
filming a commercial on the campus. The reputation of Washington and Lee’s
students as “intellectual” was at first a detriment to the executives, but they
soon changed their minds. The advertising executives were swayed by
arguments from the IFC council president, who felt that the idea of intellec-
tuals could be worked into the new advertising campaign. New slogans--such
as, “Drink Natty Light, you’ll be smarter in school, and drunker at night”--
helped to sway the executives’ minds.

  during Fancy Dress

Although the administration was at first reluctant to allow the Washington and
Lee name tobe used in conjuction with a major beer label, they soon relented after
an anonymous ten million dollar contribution was given to the school.

Student reactions vary, but most concur that it is a cool way to advertise beer.

Lorilee Snout, a senior, is looking forward to viewing the commercial.

“I feel like now when I tell people I go to Washington and Lee the response
will be more positive. More along the lines of, 'Ohhhh, the one in the beer
commercial."’

The filming took place over Fancy Dress Weekend, and many students are
featured as extras in the commercial. Actors were hired for the main parts of
Handsome Fraternity Boy #1, and Sexy Hollins Girl.

J .D. Lancaster was excited to be cast as Handsome Fraternity Boy #2, and he
feels that the role will add much to his resume, not to mention his sex appeal.

“I was so excited when they called and told me I would be playing a guy in the
commercial who drinks beer, and bobs his head to Dave. It was like a dream come
true, and then they said they would pay me with beer, something like 25 free
cases. I mean free. Wow.”

The commercial will air in May, 1996. The students plan on getting together
to watch the beer commercial that will celebrate the spirit of Washington and Lee.
In fact, most of the students will be drinking all the free beer provided by Natural
Light. After all, it is the beer of choice among college students, and it makes you

7

Lo

Spring Break

Horosocope

O0O0COCOOOOOOAOmEsOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

(MAR 2 l To APRIL I 9)

Drink of the week: Strawberry Daiquiri. The zodiac's usually
very upbeat pepper is at an all time low. This is the week to drink until
you forget your name, or at least that signiﬁcant other's name. You
may not make it to tropical love paradise, but sometimes a week of
home town loving can cure all your ails. Heck, if you can't ﬁnd it at
home come back for Spring Term

TAURUS

(APRIL 20 TO MAY 20)

Drink of the week: Fuzzy Navel. The hull is in full force,
knocking down walls and trampling those too slow to keep up with
your fast paced life. Spring break will give you the output for all the
restless energy you've been feeling lately. Start early, shotgun those
ﬁnals and get the hell out of Lexington. Anywhere with a building

over ﬁve stories high will be enough outlet for you raging personality.

GEMINI

(MAY 2| To JUNE 2|)

Drink of the week: Gin Tonic (and make it a double). Twin's
personalities have been pulling in separate directions. But this is the
week your social self and responsible studious self come together. It
is time to give those books a rest and think about the beauty of spring
term, if you are registered for two classes forget it, drop one as soon

as you sober up from the week long bender you'll be on.

CANCER

(JUNE 22 To JULY 22)

Drink of the week: Mai Tai. The crab as usual is going at
everything sideways, only this time it will pay off. That special
someone you've been tailing will finally come around to your side as
soon as he/she pulls herself out of the dredges of ﬁnals week. In fact
find that person and propose a post finals pre spring break celebration
in your room. Use some cheesy line and pray that it works. Remem-
ber people are weak after high periods of stress. Then head off to

break happy as a clam and send them a postcard for Pete's sake.

The End of Racism has many
logical conclusions to debate

ASKIA BARAKA
PHI BOOK REvIEwER

The debate over the issue of race
has continuously been contaminated
by lies and illusions, full of name—
calling and labeling. Neither side seems
to contemplate thoughtfully the ques-
tion of race; instead, they hurl epithets
with no hope of understanding each
other.

Dinesh D’Souza has brilliantly
cleared away the intellectual manure
and paved a new conception of race in
his fervently argued book, The End of
Racism.

In this book, D’Souza knocks down
the politically correct theories of racial
ideology that have dominated the de-
bate. Many historians incorrectly con-
clude that slavery was a racist institu-
tion.

He points out that slavery occurred
throughout human history-even in
Greece and Rome. In fact, Africans
owned slaves. In all three cases, how-
ever, slaves maintained some human-
ity and eventually became a part of that
particular community or tribe.

Still, slavery existed. Why is sla-
very in the Americas, especially in the
South, always condemned as some-
thing unique? Sure, in the Americas,
the slaves happened to be black, but
D’Souza notes that this was because of
economics, not race. Besides, there was
a tremendous free black population,
and some blacks owned slaves so how
could it be racist?

Nor does it help matters that most

black slaveowners only purchased their
relatives because they did not have the
money to free them and did not want to
risk them from going down South.

He also attacks the absurd notion
that segregation and Jim Crow hurt
African-Americans and were inherently
racist. D’Souza accurately points out
that these laws were set up to help
blacks. Blacks had neither the educa-
tion nor the mental fortitude to survive
in a white patriarchal capitalistic soci-
ety. Besides, segregation served as a
way for blacks to operate in America
without antagonizing the white popu-
lation with its presence.

It served as a sensible solution to the
race problem, and blacks and whites
enjoyed an incredible intimacy. Black
women working in the white man’s
kitchen bonded with the white women
they worked for. They laughed and
cried together while the black women
cleaned the toilets of the white women.

Things simply fell apart, D’Souza
argues, when Martin Luther King, Jr.,
and other black activists fought for
their rights as American citizens.

Of course, blacks had a moral high
ground in the argument, but they went
too far in passing the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of
1965. Both laws had the effect of vio-
lating the 10th amendment of the Bill
of Rights in the U.S. Constitution that
guarantees states’ rights. Massive re-
sistance after the horrible Brown v.
Board of Education was a reasonable
protest against the federal govemment’s
intrusion on the states’ rights to govern
themselves.

Separate butequal worked, and ever

since segregation has ended, blacks
have not progressed but regressed.
Since the Civil Rights Movement, wel-
fare, crime, illegitimacy, single-mother
households-all of these things have
increased, and blacks’ position in this
country has not improved.

D’Souza, with an impressive cata-
log of evidence, proves that black
peoples’ problems in this country are
not the cause of racism. America has
not been racist, and liberals’ conten-
tion that it is only hurts black people-
not help them. Blacks must realize that
it is their culture that is the problem and
not their race.

Black culture implicitly approves
ofviolence, rampant sexuality, illegiti-
macy, and dependence on welfare. In
other words, black culture has at its
base a number of pathologies like jazz
that cause these problems.

Liberal arguments about discrimi-
nation and racism are based on hog-
wash. None of these arguments ex-
plain why Asian Americans and other
immigrants have surpassed blacks in
gettingjobs and owning businesses. Of
course, the majority of CEO’s in this
country are white males, but that is
besides the point.

Europeans knew what they were
talkingaboutwhenthey cameintocon-
tact with Africans. They were simply
reacting to the primitive cultures of
these dark-skinned peoples. How would
you react if you came into contact with
a people who had politically sophisti-
cated civilizations such as the Asante
Empire, Mali, Songhay, Ghana and
others? Obviously, these people had
inferior religions compared to the Eu-

ropean conception of God.

And they seemed to these whites,
coming from a Victorian perspective,
to act like apes or uglier animals. More
importantly, Africans certainly could
not win any contest when compared to
Western Civilization.

Only Western Civilization had the
intellectual and technological prowess
to contribute literature and philosophy
while at the same time making con-
quests of Africa, Asia, and Latin-
America. It was only ﬁtting that Eu-
rope share its gifts of civilization to
these continents, forcing Christianity
on these peoples of color and
disempowering their political and eco-
nomic systems.

Furthermore, D’Souza argues quite
persuasively that rational discrimina-
tion is justiﬁed. Of course, white women
should be afraid of black men, despite
the fact that the majority of crimes
committed against white people are
committed by white people. It makes
sense even if it goes against every
concept of American democracy.

In the end, D’Souza writes exquis-
itely with prose that makes the heart
sing with each elongated sentence. He
provides us with a refreshing perspec-
tive of race in America that goes be-
yond emotion. Instead, he approaches
the subject from an ahistorical, rea-
soned voice that convinces me that the
problem of black people in this country
is that they have clung to their black
identity. As he argues, black people
need to discard their savage black cul-
ture and embrace the civilizing notions
of white culture. Only then will blacks
achieve the American dream.

F

LEO

(JULY 23 To AUGUST 22)

Drink of the week: Sloe Comfortable Screw Up Against a
Wall. After a depressing dreary winter, spring has finally arrived.
Your life has been on the up since Fancy Dress weekend. Take
advantage of your friends, they know what is best for you. Besides
when all else fails, they will waste hours and hours drinking with you.
Spring break may not be tropical for you, but Spring Term will bring
you together with one cool tropical fish. Lion and Pisces go together

like. ummrnwell .you get the picture.

VIRGO

(AUGUST 23 TO SEPTEMBER 22)

Drink of the week: Martini, shaken not stirred. Mercury is
feeling a little daring, a little adventurous. This is the week to try
something new, dance naked under a virgin moon, or better yet, spend
all the money you don't have on things you will never need. The
usually uptight Mercury will break loose this week, enjoy, and don't

take any pictures you might regret in the morning.

LIBRA

(SEPTEMBER 23 TO OCTOBER 2 2)

Drink of the week: Tom Collins. It is your week to cool down,
you have been boiling over all term, and what you need to do now is
calm down. You must break up with that person you've been seeing,
they are cheating on you, cheating on you more than once if they are
a Scorpio. So go away find someone new, someone fresh, enjoy not

knowing their last name.

SCORPIO

(OCTOBER 23 TO NOVEMBER 2 I )

Drink of the week: Rum, any shape any form. Forget
moderation, you really need to break out, become your evil twin, let
loose all those morals you've kept so tightly constrained all this time.
Deﬁnitely do not go home this week you do not want to be anywhere

near your parents, or anywhere near any parental life forms.

SAGITTARIUS

(NovEMBER 22 To DECEMBER 2 I)

Drink of the week: Flaming Dr. Pepper. Hot! Hot! Hot!
Anything you touch is going to burst into a fiery passion this week.
Only be careful, most likely any random one night stands will result
in a fatal attraction situation. Avoid anyone with long ﬁngernails,
knife collections, Harleys, or multi-colored hair. Not only is that
trouble but pure stupidity. And whatever happens never give your ral
name think up cool a cool alias

CAPRICORN

(DECEMBER 2 2 TO JANUARY I 9)

Drink of the week: Water. Sorry to put out your ﬂames, but you
can't handle any alcohol this week. Since you will be drinking all of
ﬁnals week (Whiskey Sours) You'll need to be sober enough to talk
your way out of serious punishment for ﬂunking the entire winter
term. If you do manage to escape wrath, drink in the closet, only don't
get caughtl AA meetings are not that fun.

AQUARIUS

(JANUARY 20 To FEBRUARY l 8)

Drink of the week: Sex on the Beach. Go tropical, you must
get out of the cold dull spring of Lexington and into the tropical
paradise of Florida, think Ft. Lauderdale. Don't worry , that psycho
chick who has been bothering you will be run over by a Mack truck
in the very near future. I am not saying she will die, just live out a
horribly painful existence as the new "Large Marge" While you on
the other hand will meet a lovely beautiful person in a skimpy bathing
suit (speedo or string) and fall madly and hopelessly in lust for the
week, just don't ask them to speak.

PISCES

(FEBRUARY I 9 To MARCH 20)

Drink of the week: Beer. The fish has been ﬂying high for the
past couple of weeks, and the trend will only continue with break.
Take it easy, kick back enjoy the sun, get a tan. Don't worry about
finding that special someone, what you have going on right now is as
close to perfection as you've been able to find all year. After all those
crazy twilight episodes you've been living, you need to take this week
easy. Read books on the beach build sand castles, laugh. Life is
kexcellent, and it isn't getting any better.

4

 

PAGE 3

@112 iking-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

V Our favorite Phi quotes

“We could use a little sexual harassment in this
place.” —Dan Odenwald, warrior for the
Politically Correct

Emily: Do you guys want to hear the worst
thing I did?
Betsy: Does it involve a boy?
Emily: A baby boy.

Christine: If you’ll excuse me, I have to push
an editorial page editor out of the window.
Michael: No! Wait! I need him!

“You can always get more from a chick face to
face.” —Darcey

Dan: Do you know what pyromania means?
Christine: FUN!

_ “I read Betsy and I read Rich Weaver. Not
because it’s funny, just because I do.” -—Hillary,
who better hope she still has some columnists next

week

“I like stretch class. You just sit there on the
ﬂoor for an hour. And sometimes you move your
legs around. But I do that in bed anyway...” —Dan
Odenwald, warrior for moving his legs around

“He owes me $40. No, no, I mean for the
night I went out and bought the Polaroid.” -—Emily,
star of the stage and screen

“I’m just a cheese person. I’m a boring guy.”
—Keith Grant, W&L ’95 and boring guy

Dan: Nobody’s allowed to play with my hair
because I’m trying to train it.

Christine: Are you going to lay down paperon
the ﬂoor for it too?

“I didn’t quite want him. I want songs from
him. I want songs, not sex.” —Emily, music fan

“I just get the fu*kers done and forget about
it.” ——Anne, dedicated Advertising Composition
- Artist

" : Christine: That’s what the news editor does——
_t she sits in Dan’s lap.
Anne: That’s why I quit.

_ “One. Two. Three. Four. Get your road
3 cheese on the ﬂoor.” —Alex, getting in the Coolio
} mood
" :
v E

@112 itting-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editors Puck
’' Associate Editor Rachel
News Editor Mnhamrned
Editorial Page Fdilnr Corie
Sports Editor Pam
Assistant Sports Editor Judd
‘ Features Editor Pedro, Cher Horowitz
Photography Editor Dion from Silverspoon
Editorial Cartoonists Elton, Al Roker
Business Manager I-Iugh Jass
Assistant Business Manager Iran-Luc Piquard
,4 Advertising Manager Jeff Shaw
Advertisement Composition Artist I-‘Isa Klensch

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
H contes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, roont 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
47 Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

7 Post Office Box 899

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

OPINION

GI:ulnA'rron Lax

The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1996

.‘ 4
-‘\I\'§.‘.*,:u \

3
g.
s
F.
.

 
 

Pteswenlr ELROP.
ms UNION ms
1'09. 5&6 ME‘

HERE To sEE t-bu.

  
 
     

 

I’ll show you mine if you show me...

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

The Phi office. Thursday night.
Richard Weaver, who describes him-
self asastarof stage, television, music,
screen, and paper joined me and a
couple bottles of Andre, the official
champagne of humor columnists try-
ing to interview each other.

Me: What’s in your CD player?

RW: The Jacksons’ Victory al-
bum, Tina Tumer’s What ’s Love Got
toDo with It, Willie Nelson’s Greatest
Hits, David Hasselhoff, and Dave
Matthews.

Me: I think that’s a graduation
requirement. Speaking of which, what
PE class was your favorite?

RW: Ice skating, with the evil
nymph Millie. That woman... her fa-
vorite expression was, “You kids are
crap. You make me work. You come
out here, you skate like an idiot, I’ve
been out here all day. My feet hurt,
etc... ” Millie’s a bitter woman.

Me: She may have a point, though.

RW: I can deﬁnitely understand
about her feet hurting.

Me: Those skates can’t be comfort-
able. So, urn, what’s your footwear of
choice? (Swigs some Andre)

RW: Black boots, like the kind
Johnny Cash wears. While drinking
bourbon and singing about women
who’ve dumped him.

Me: What, are you gonna cry?

RW: NO. Shut up.

Me: So, urn you’re a senior. What
was your best W&L experience?

RW: When I met Selma, the Queen
of Sweet Briar.

Me: Tell the people about Selma.

RW: It’s a little-known fact that her
actual name is J_en. We call her Selma
because it saves us time when people
want to know what her name is and
where she’s from. She has her own
BMW, pearl party jewelry, a pewter
ﬂask, and a I-Iollins sweatshirt that she
wears as a disguise.

Me: Sounds like a hell of a woman.
I think the two of you would be very
happy together.

RW: Selma can scream the lyrics to
“Sweet Home Alabama” louder than
any band playing it, so we would prob-
ably have really loud children. Woo-
Hooo!

Me: What’s the best thing about
living in Lexington?

RW: The local economy exists on
the fines from arresting students and
then towing theircars. Makes me want
to be mayor.

Me: So, did Coolio kick your ass? I
would have kicked your as if I were
Coolio.

RW: When I had my picture taken
with him, he kind of glared at me, but
I think he was just blinded by my
whiteness.

Me: Do you feel you have more
rhythm than the average W&L stu-
dent?

RW: Yes. You can’t listen to
Whitney Houston without wanting to
dance, dance, dance.

Me: So what did you think of my
brother from Harvard when he came to
visit?

RW: I was impressed that he wanted
to meet me and Paducah Joe Framptom.

Me: Um, he was just being polite.

RW: Oh, about Paducah Joe?

Me: Okay. So, what J acksons’ song
best sums up your life?

RW: “You’re Gonna Get Rocked”
by La Toya Jackson, because she re-
ally means it.

Me: Matching your own sincerity.
So, I know you’re a material boy and
like it when you get merchandise from
various W&L and road school events.
What’s the best merchadise you ever
got?

RW: I got a plastic laurel from a
Hollins formal that made me look like
Ceaser when I wore it. »

Me: Who is your favorite Triden
columnist?

RW: I don’t want to get into that. I
feel I now have a certain detente with
the Trident reminiscent of Soviet-
American relations in the late 1970’s.

Me: I guess that about wraps things
up. Wannna go smash these empty
bottles against the Trident office?

RW: Shut up, let’s not ruin a good
thing.

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

She’s the chick in the ﬂak jacket
with the camera you see on campus:
Betsy Green. An inhabitor of local
coffee shops, Betsy makes no secret of
her affections. In the past year she’s
picked out Christmas gifts for people
she hates, discussed Barbie, and pro-
posed that we use old Mock Con deco-
ration for FD. Now she is interviewed
by the man who’s typing this: Richard
Weaver.

Q: So, I hear coffee causes cancer...

A: Actually, a study has shown that
women who drink two or more cups of
coffee a day are considerably less likely
to commit suicide; I’ve been told that’s
because they can’t hold the gun steady.
Regardless, I drink mine black, like
my soul.

Q: What’s in your CD player now?

A: Alanis Morrissette; she’s so an-
gry. Also, the Velvet Underground box
set, because I like to listen to the song
“Heroin” before I go to class every
morning. It inspires me.

Q: You can help with questions,
too. What should I ask you?

A: Maybe you should drink some
more champagne.

Q: So, I understand you’re living in

sin...
A: That is true. I won’t deny that.
This summer whenever I was living in
sin in Seattle, my fellow sinner, Steve,
and I walked by a religious guy giving
out pamphlets. We wanted to come up
to him and ask ‘We’re living in sin, and
we wondered what you would think
about that?’

Q: What about Washington and Lee
would you change?

A: 8 a.m. classes should really be 8
p.m. classes, and Fucking Zollman’s
would be banned.

Q: Have you had a bad Zollman’s
experience? Did you not bring your
own toilet paper?

A: I always bring my own toilet
paper, but I think a Fucking ZolIman’s
experience is by definition bad. I al-
ways end up thinking I could be at
home having a bad time, and then I
wouldn’t have to worry about getting a
ride home.

Q: So, the Subaru you drive is a real
machine, huh?

A: I would highly recommend the
1985 Subaru GL to anyone. lt’s red, it
has a tape deck, it gets kick-ass gas
mileage, and it makes that cool grind-
ing sound when you accelerate. Subaru:
It’s what to drive.

Q: Kind of like “Beef: It’s what’s
for dinner.”

A: I like beef because it’s high in fat
and I like to live dangerously.

Q: Who is your favorite road school ,

girl?

A: I have several: Ashley from
Hollins, because she frightened Lamar
Villere with the simple words “I’m
from Hollins;” Jen from Randolph-
Macon because she’s actually married
and she brings her husband to parties,
Selma from Sweet Briar, ’nuff said;
and Patrick from Sem, because he’s
not actually a girl.

Q: How did you meet Patrick?

A: We work together at the coffee
shop. At first I thought of him as
Generation X boy; now I think of him
as a friend, even if he doesn’t have his
own horse like most of the girls at
Sem.

Q: What’s your favorite Jim Carrey
movie?

A: Dumb and Dumber shows some
moments of true wit. The only thing
that would make it better was full fron-
tal nudity.

Q: What’s your advice for future
Phi humor columnists once I am gone?

A: Don’t piss me off.

Richard: She has more to say.

My new pathetic attempt at self-parody

 

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

Okay, funny boy, be funny!

Oh, geez, did I just say that in front of my reading
audience? Damn microphones.

So anyway, I know that parody relies on “buying
into the concept” of a parody issue, but it seems that
for these last two I’ve written for, I’m just in too bad
a mood to play along. Sol invite you inside my head
as I prepare the stunning and brilliant self-parody for
the April Fool’s issue.

So——-to parody myself—I need to come up with
some sort of theoretical construct of exactly what
tendencies I tend to overexaggerate, or that could be
overexaggerated to comic effect, in my regular writ-
ing. The problem I’m having is that I try to be funny
anyway, in my usual column, and I really straddle
that thin line between good taste and Don Imus (see,
a little wry joke slipped in there in the supposedly
unfunny part of my column: this will very likely be
the trend throughout this article). (I mean, as op-
posed to a funny idea that might overarch the entire
column.) Except, inventing this construct would be
very boring. I just won’t do it.

Okay, I’m bored of that part now, too, so what I’m
going to do is do what I did last year, which is to start
a bunch of possible parody columns that I don’t want
to write but might get a good idea for, then when I get
bored, move on to the next one. Or, like, I might just
insult people. A snappy name for this would be
“quick shots.” If I were going to come up with a
snappy name for it.

PARODY START #1: I have worked really late
in the Robinson computer lab exactly twice in my

entire career, and both times I became suspicious at
hearing odd hooting noises below. Stealthily creep-
ing onto the Colonnade, I found, both times, a bunch
of guys in ski masks putting up Cadaver Society

(C

John Donne said, “Tb write
threescore: this is the sec-
ond of our raigne.” And
Bruce Springsteen, “The
Boss,” said, “You ain’t a
beauty, but hey, you’re all
right.” What does this have
to do with anything ? you may
ask. Nothing really, but if I
were going to write an inco-
herent eleven-part letter to
The Thident, I would prob-
ably start it like that.

 

posters with duct tape. “Helllllooooo!” they hoot.
“How are yoooouuuu?”

“Fine, how are yoooouuuu?”

This raises several questions: (1) Are these guys
following me?, (2) Wouldn’t Scotch or masking tape

cause less damage to the paint job?, (3) Why the
hooting? Is it part of the ancient tradition, or just
good-natured fun?, and (3a) Could this hooting pos-
sibly be pitched out of the hearing range of Security,
like a dog whistle? We may never know the answers
to these questions....

PARODY START #2: John Donne said, “To
write threescore: this is the second of our raigne.”
And Bruce Springsteen, “The Boss,” said, “You
ain’t a beauty, but hey, you’re all right.” What does
this have to do with anything? you may ask. Nothing
really, but if I were going to write an incoherent
eleven-part letter to The Trident, I would probably
start it like that. To make it more incoherent, I mean.
Then I would start a campus-wide search for hy-
phens, the great destroyers of our culture. Damn,
there’s one in that last sentencel...

PARODY START #3: Well, I’ve done my best to
be involved here at Washington and Lee. I audi-
tioned for the spring play, I ran for EC vice president,
I applied forA riel editor. Is it three strikes and you’re
out? Well, I fooled you then, because I’ve had many
more strikes than three! Ha! Ha! Ain’t we got fun!
I’m still not down forthe count. But I do seem to have
a bit of trouble playing nice in groups. It’s not that I
wasn’t polite and friendly and great through all my
various recent rejections, and it’s not even that I
think any of them should have turned out differently,
but somehow there is a perception out there that I’m
a bit unstable, maybe ﬂighty or combative. I want to
put that to rest right now. lt’sjust not true. l’ll ﬁght
anybody who says different. Wait, scratch that, what
was I thinking?...

All right, all right, so I can’t write a great
parody column with a straight face! So sue
me! At least I don’t work for the campus
weekly that hates women.

  

Last Week: '

' * ° This Week
I 2 mg-tum I -
B - s . Les 1 , ; . ‘-
BAB3BAu- W. 10-7. at-Mlanta: W. 24-20. at Colorado N&.s::;:az- S:  RCiiggi:sG«:i)t3i)s1rur:?30aAii8ame'8PM V
Mlurcnossz W, 22-3, vs. Gettysburg WLACROB8E- Sat. vs. Parry Mccluer at Glasgow, 4:30AM
M'l'r:NNia - Beat Andre Agassi, Boris Becker, and Pete Sampras M'l‘r.i~mis - Mon. at US. Open, 10 AM
W'l‘:NNia - Beat Steffi Graf, Monica Seles. and Chris Evert W'I‘:NNis - Tues. at Wimbledon, 2 PM
Gouv - Tommy Dudley shot. a 59 at The Masters G0‘-F ' Thu|'S- 81 PGA Championship. 11 AM
Tiucir - Wed. at Boston Marathon, 9 AM
PAGE 4
BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF, TRACKAND FIELD MARCH 29, 1996

Schaeffer jogs on Maury

By DAVE JUSTICE
Phi Sports Scapegoat

Jesus is no longer the only
person who can walk on water.

Witnesses claim that senior
cross country and track legend
Josephine Schaeffer dashed
across the Maury River Wednes-
day. Schaefferacknowledged her
feat but downplayed it.

“lt’s really not that big of a
deal,” she said. “It just kind of
happened.”

Schaeffer, the W&L female
Athlete of the Decade, had been
jogging on the Woods Creek Trail
Wednesday afternoon when she
arrived at the Maury River. Rather
than turn around or take the Route
11 bridge across the river, she
kept running.

“lt’s been bothering me since
that other bridge had collapsed,
which made it more difﬁcult to
cross the river,” Schaeffer said.

Besides, it was a warm day and I
didn’t really mind getting wet.”

But Schaeffer never did get
wet, according to a Lexington
resident and a W&L freshman,
who were ﬁshingalongthe bank.

“Ya’ll should’ve seen that,”
the resident said. “That girl’s
amazing! She had the power of
Jesus in her! I nearly dropped my
ol’ rod here from the whole
thing.”

The W&L student was in a
similar state of shock.

“Damn,wasthatsomething!”
he said. “I thought a big ﬁsh
jumped out there in the river, but
when I went to cast my rod, 1 saw
it was a girl. Man, I’ve gotta lay
off the JD for a while. I must be
seeing things.”

The freshman wished to re-
main anonymous in the event
that his fraternity brothers could
find out and force him to repeat
Schaeffer’s feat.

Schaeffer jogged on top of
the Maury for its entire width

before deciding to return on Route
11. There was no word on
whether Schaeffer parted the river
as she ran across.

Head women’s track coach
John Tucker did not appear
stunned by Schaeffer’s feat.

“I know she’s capable of do-
ing things like that,” Tucker said.
“That isn’t the first superhuman
thing Josephine has done.”

Indeed it is not. She has
smashed just about every dis-
tance record that exists, and re-
cently qualiﬁed for the NCAA
Outdoor Championships with a
meet record time in the 10,000
meters, which is slightly longer
than the distance across the
Maury River.

Schaeffer is also a force in the
classroom and is the head RA in
Gaines Hall.

Her next-door neighbor, Phi
Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter,
said he was pleased to learn that
a superhuman was living next to
him, at least while he was still

living.

“That’s cool,” he said.
“Maybe she can magically stop
my suitemate from playing the
same taped songs over and over
again.”

Schaeffer refused to accept
her immortal status and the in-
evitable comparisons with Jesus.

“It really didn’t deserve this
much attention,” she said. “I’m
sure anybody could walk or run
across a river if they really tried.
I just felt like doing something
different, that’s all.”

Tucker said he has no plans to
hold women’s track practice on
the Maury from now on, since
somebody may fall in.

Schaeffer said she would re-
frain from jogging the Maury in
the near future.

“I wouldn’t want people try-
ing this at home, because they
might not make it,” she said.
“And ifa VMI guy saw me doing
this while he was jogging, he
might try it too.”

- shortly after midnight on March

    

Photo by Jeff Fishbein, T Sprting News
Wow! Allen Iverson actually CAN pass the ball.

By THE Bro SLEEP-DEPRIVED FAN
Phi Deceased Sports Editor

Yes, back by popular demand is the Second Annual Bookwalter
Dream Sequence.

The title in itself is ironic enough, because I NEVER dream.
Well, I used to, but that was before I came to college and got four
hours of sleep every night.

This year’s dream sequence was scheduled to be a baseball game,
but it was canceled due to poor ﬁeld conditions at W&L’s Ham
Smith Field. So it was moved inside to the John Warner Center for
a basketball game tipping off at 2:30 AM, which of course is when
I’d be awake to write about it.

Don’t worry if you missed it. Only two students showed up, one
of which has passed out. R.D. Clark and Baner were the ofﬁcials and
Keith Grant, the former “Voice of the Generals” who loves Metro
Lex so much that he can’t leave it, was at the mike, while Bob Ryan
was covering the game for the Boston Globe.

A team of Washington area sports players, coming off of last
year’s thrilling 28-27 defeat, hoped for better luck this year. It
started Othella Harrington at power forward, Dennis Rodman at
small forward, Gheorghe Muresan at center, Allen Iverson at point
guard, and Chris Webber at shooting guard. Bob Knight and John
Thompson split the coaching duties.

Their opposition, the W&L All-Stars, countered with George
Clinton at power forward, Coolio at small forward, Bob Dole at
center, W&L President Suzi Landolphi at point guard, and Dave
Matthews at shooting guard. Kevin Moore handled the coaching
and Weird Al Yankovic assisted him.

It was clear from the beginning that Moore’s uptempo system
was ﬁnally working. W&L was running and gunning like Loyola
Marymount, circa 1990. Clinton and Coolio repeatedly dunked and
Matthews nailed a couple threes. Iverson scored the ﬁrst 15 points
for Washington, who trailed 20-15 with 15:49 left in the first half.

With W&L up 27-24, disaster struck for Washington. Webber,
who had started the game 0-7 from the ﬁeld and 1-6 from the line,
left with an injury and was replaced by Heath Shuler. W&L
promptly went on a 12-2 run, punctuated by an alley-oop pass from
Landolphi, who was standing on her head, to Dole, who power
dunked it over Harrington.

Rodman had grabbed 17 rebounds by the midway mark of the
first half, but things kept getting worse for Washington. For the third
straight time, Coolio slammed over Muresan, with the ﬁnal one
putting W&L in front, 54-34.

“Get the f— off my stage!” Coolio screamed at Muresan.

Muresan had taken enough abuse in last year’s game and wasn’t
about to tolerate an encore performance. He decked Coolio, tied his
hair in a knot, and stuffed him in the basket.

“I’ll show you who the gangsta is in this paradise!” Muresan
bellowed.

Clark ejected Muresan and tried getting Lexington Towing to
haul him away, but Gheorghe balked, saying he was going to start
filming the movie he is starring in. Boubacar Aw replaced him.

Derek Carter replaced Coolio and picked up four quick fouls, but
he soon recovered to drain four straight 3-pointers as W&L bol-
stered its lead to 70-47 with 3:17 left.

Iverson went on a 16-7 run for Washington, which closed to 77-
63 by halftime. Iverson led all scorers with 51 points in the half and
Rodman grabbed 28 rebounds.

Turmoil reigned in the W&L locker room at halftime. Dole
nominated Clinton to be his vice president, and the two left the game
to begin campaigning.

“Now the real Clinton’s gonna be in the White House,” George
said.

W&L professor of politics Newt Gingrich had no comment on
the nomination of Clinton.

Meanwhile, Landolphi left to inspect the condom machines
around campus and Matthews, who was supposed to provide half-

 

Late night at the John Warner Center

time entertainment, was instead watching ants marching over in the
Gaines courtyard.

The coaching situation was no better. Moore ﬁnally became tired
of Yankovic, who was attired in black and was churning butter while
Moore was trying to give a chalk talk.

“If you think you’re so great, than YOU coach,” Moore yelled,
and walked out.

Yankovic didn’t think he was so great and decided he would
rather erect a barn instead, so he also departed. Out of options, W&L
called up associate guru of journalism Brian Richardson, and his
sidekick, Lexington/Buena Vista/Glasgow police chief L.B. “Skeet”
Thrasher to coach.

Richardson immediately conﬁscated W&L’s playbooks and
handed them AP Stylebooks instead.

Over in the Washington locker room, the team was grousing about
Iverson, who had no assists thus far.

The second half began with Washington starting Harrington,
Rodman, Aw, Iverson, and Shuler. With their starting ﬁve gone,
W&L sent out Carter, Cam Dyer, Shaquille O’Neal, and Buena Vista
residents Bo and Luke Duke.

The Dukes didn’t last too long. After each made two baskets,
Lexington Mayor J .D. “Boss” Hogg and Rockbridge County Sheriff
Roscoe sauntered into the Warner Center and spotted Bo and Luke.

“That’s them Duke boys,” Roscoe pointed out. “Oooh, Boss, I got
‘em this time! I’m gonna git them Duke boysl”

      

Before his death, the editor found a very old fi
photo. No, that’s not Green Bay in the picture.

Sports editor dies

“This is a victory for the
athletic department,” stated

By THE RACQUETBALL WIZARD
Phi Staff Cool Guy

McKinley.
R,',,g_,u,,, phi Sports editor Hull was unavailable for
Scott Bookwalterwastragically Commem _
killed last week by enraged Th°a”eS““g°fﬁ°°rrF-W-

Smith, is also the one who
found Bookwalter’s body.

Ofﬁcer Smith reported that
Bookwalter was found laying
on the 50-yard line of Wilson
Field, dressed in a tutu, and
with pee-wee shoulder pads
wrapped around his neck.

Bookwalter was moaning
faintly, his face was a dark
shade of blue, and there was a
sign taped to him that said:
“Who’s the big fan now?”

“In all my years on this
police force, I have never seen
such a sight,” said an aston-
ished Smith.

UVA doctors said that suf-
focation from the shoulder
pads caused the death.

“He had it coming to him,”
said McKinley. “Which sea-
son did he think this was?
There are pictures from years
ago, with my name on them. I
couldn’t take it anymore.”

Thethree players willhave
their court date on April 1.
All are being advised to plead
that Bookwalter was insane.

membersofthewashingtonand

Lee football team.
Bookwalter’s body was

found on the football field

20. He was taken to Stonewall
Jackson and subsequently air-
lifted to Charlottesville. Unfor-
tunately, the UVA doctors were
unable to save him. He was
pronounced DOA at 12:40 AM.
The Lexington Police De-
partment has arrested several
people in connection with the
murder: football defensive line-
man Robert Hull, sophomore
offensive lineman Stefan
Neumeister, and sophomore
running back Seth McKinley.
Professors of journalism
Ham Smith, Ed Yoder, and
Brian Richardson were also sus-
pected in Bookwalter’s death,
but have not yet been arrested.
“We weren’t very happy
with the coverage he gave us,
and when we sawwhat he did to
those other teams...we couldn’t
take it anymore,” said
Neumeister in his deposition.

was running circles around the fatigued W&L team.

Carter drilled a three and Komegay and Dyer converted back-to-
back 360 dunks to give W&L a 135-124 advantage, but Iverson
swished two more threes to make it 135-130 with 4:01 left. Coffman

missed a jumper and Iverson, with 97 points and pumping his arms in .

the air, poised himself for 100. He never got the chance because
Komegay cold-cocked him at midcourt.

“It was about time somebody did it,” Chuck said. “I wasn’t about
to let him score 100, not on our defense.”

Despite his sacriﬁce to the team, Komegay was ejected and Darvin
Ham entered for the ﬁrst time. At this point, the four Washington
players returned with Iverson now out. Marion Barry took over for
Iverson at the point.

Washington continued its comeback even with Barry at point

guard. Barry, high on crack, raced around like Iverson, draining 
jumpers right and left. Washington closed to 141-140 with two ‘-

minutes left, and it seemed like there was no stopping them. Aw and
Harrington each made layups to give Washington its ﬁrst lead of the
game at 144-141.
Shaq made a layup, but Shuler hit one of two free throws to make
it 145-143 with 58 seconds left. Richardson called a timeout.
“You told me you would win this game,” he said. “Ifyou don’t, I’m
going to give you all fact errors.”
Spurred on by this impassioned speech, W&L worked the ball to
Carter, who drained a 3 with 37 seconds left.

Roscoe ran across the court after them, shoving
Iverson to the ﬂoor en route. Roscoe chased them
outside as the Dukes headed for the General Lee.

“At least we don’t have to worry about them
towing our car in this town,” Luke said.

Chuck Komegay and Jon Coffman replaced the
Duke boys, but it was Washington which was con-
tinuing to have problems. It trailed 98-90 with 15:22
remaining, and Dyer was having a ﬁeld day scoring
over forwards Aw and Rodman.

Rodman, who had 42 rebounds but still hadn’t
attempted a shot, ﬁnally lost his cool and violently
checked Dyer. Baner signalled a flagrant foul.

“That was no * !#@$ flagrant foul, you * !#@$!”
Rodman screamed.

Baner began motioning for an ejection, but Knight
saved him the trouble by hurling a chair at Rodman.
Dennis, even more incensed, threw a water cooler,
his jersey, a bench, two basketballs, and the scorer’s
table at Knight. Baner immediately gave Rodman
hours scrubbing the D-hall floor, which Rodman
loudly protested.

“If you don’t shut up, I’ll make one of the
fraternities put you on clean-up,” Baner warned.

Dennis shut up and left.

Gus Frerotte, who had been openly ﬁghting with
Shuler over a starting position, ﬁnally got his wish
as he replaced Rodman. By this time, the entire

    

Photo by Joel Richardson,
The Washington Post

Darvin Ham. Do you want
to mess with him?

entered the lineup.
“Oh no!” screamed Grant, who ﬁnally
looked up from the book he was writing.
Sure enough, Barry passed to Laettner,

line with 6.2 seconds left. Dyer quickly passed

are. With time running out, a confused Shaq
heaved up a 3. It found nothing but net, but lo
and behold, Barry, with his high starting to
wear off, hacked him with 2.2 seconds left.

Shaq, a 92% free throw shooter, calmly
stepped to the line and bricked the ﬁrst. He
airballed the second. Finally, the third shot
rolled around the rim and dropped through,
tying it at 147.

From the inbounds line, Shuler tried to
heave it to Laettner, but the pass was inter-
cepted by Coffman. In the same motion, Jon
flung it up near the basket, where Ham was
hovering. Darvin caught the ball in midair,
and as the buzzer sounded, he jammed the
ball through with everything he had.
SMASHH Glass shards and supports went
flying everywhere. Ham ripped the rim off,
hung it over his neck, and headed off to East

Washington team was at war. Harrington, Aw, and

Iverson all fought for control of the ball on every inbounds play.
Iverson still had no assists for the game and Harrington had not
touched the ball the entire second half.

Finally, at the 10:05 mark, with Washington trailing 116-101,
Harrington, Aw, Frerotte, and Shuler walked off the court.

“You may as well play yourself,” Harrington said. “You’re the
only one getting a chance to play.”

“Good riddancel” Iverson retorted.

W&L couldn’t believe its luck getting to play against a one-man
team, but yet they began blowing their lead. Iverson, free from
worrying aboutrunninginto his ownteammates,beganlightingitup.
He sank 3-pointers from halfcourt and was all over the floor on
defense. W&L, startled by lverson’s superhuman play, began miss-
ing easy baskets and Shaq bricked several dunks.

By the 7:43 mark, the W&L lead had decreased to 124-114.
Iverson now had 81 points and appeared to be getting stronger as he

Lex to celebrate.

W&L had prevailed, 149-147.

Knight failed to show for the post-game press conference. He was
later seen cussing out a clerk at the Buena Vista Stop-In / Burger King/
Baskin Robbins megaplex.

Although he was not allowed into the building, associate professor
of Spanish Pat Buchanan said he enjoyed the game.

Dave Matthews wasn’t so sure. When reached for comment at a
concert in Charlottesville, Matthews said, “I don’t know. What would
you say?”

Richardson would not comment on the record but said off the
record, “Those guys [Washington] are a bunch of losers. I bet they
don’t even know how to write a lead. And that lverson’s a runt, too.”

Harrington, Komegay, and Shaq felt like doing something after
the game, but at 5 a.m., not many places were open. Except one.

“Hey, why don’t we go over to the Phi office and finish laying out
the sports page?” Komegay asked. Good idea.

 

if
‘Ive_rs_o_n'_ ’{>'et_ter_ not ‘etite‘r_2 met:-;.
‘this-year.‘ _in’the'==j
pQin(._guards'._a;‘g’3¢(~g.i.;Ee..

   
 
 
 
  
 

W&Lwas back in front, 146-145. ButWash- 
ington called time, and Christian Laettner 1

who hit a turnaround jumper from the foul ;

 
 
   

it to Shaq, but Shaq-Fu was still behind the I

 

__ Tina BIG FAN V
 I ‘*1?-Y, JOHNNY 0, ,

 

GENBRALS FAN!!

W; vhighlightsjy at Patric
  T '3; Michae!.;.J6rdan;'
‘~‘1any.,Krystokowiak dunkin
over the Bullets. Or the Pen

   

 

     
   
  
   

‘ djkescri t.3  P--
eaI:Big-:F2.mr ..
_ kwa1ter,_ asked-(me. if

 in my honor, so he
:'thoughi'it was only fair that I.
get to write a column.

 
  
  
 
 
 

he in IL“:

    

.1’?  , ntgway too _much}time

_Well it

 

 

'-.;)3i:As ‘ for Georgetown»

 NB:

 

apposed topass the 5211
 Geéxgw
_ Ome. .PI‘i*Y° ‘Si ‘W hi’
fits 1 Proilriuntfé? T 131:1
ck  of . always ‘ -sayii

»'-Mahmoud Abdul~Raufs. V

itheyfre not that greateither.
».:<$firi’th°‘Reéskins?_ 'Ihey"'re
s:hope1e$., They can’t even

 
 
 
    

V _us_:?*mrone  iitiarter

ther one. 2

like alijof you. lgraduated

casting job. So where do I
end up? In this damn HTS

surrounding me.

-station? It’s not iike they
show ESPN and CNN too.
l’m getting sick and tired
of having to lie to keep my
job. People think I’m happy
all the time, but I’m really
not. Would you be if you

Ymstartingto like thisooi-
uinn. This is the first time
I’ve ever gotten to bash my
employers, and it feels pretty
damn good. Now that the
sports editor is dead, maybe 1

page permanently each week.

W&L would admit me,
wouldn’t it? I promise i’ll.
never steal any mushrooms

ms or the administration. i’ll
even avoid beer slides and
show up at the D-Hal} for
Taco Bar night.

But I guess until then, re-
member, I’m a big fan!

. 5 ':-OK, —I’m sure some 'of'youf.
have no elite wholarni If you -.~ . ;
.watch_eti-i_lome Team Sports  ‘
togimoreithan 15 minutes ata ;
= time, chances areyou’v'e seen‘ 
;{m_e. ~;J’m the gufwearing the ';:
._w_li_ite HTS cap and shi_rt.whoV '

gives the,promtiona!s‘for ttp- ‘
‘  events. Occasionally, 
ji. ge,t_.to‘go to cook placestike "

’skiing1‘or to a ‘baseball .dia_-E:
'_ rrioxidjbutlnrostofthegtime, I 
fv3"3=é°>li;"st‘a’nd‘ifI' the st::di5<s,‘éa:i. 

  
 
  
 
   

 j;o1*1 Flyers checkingzav ,
‘ player into the boards. N

,  Peoplenotice my extrava-.« 
gant {'_liarrd* _ motions,‘ . vibrant.’
;'$‘mi!,e;and ‘upbeat personaiity, ’~ ‘
f_arrd.ask}howI do it; , How do .

I j‘g§:t3excited over suchlousy . 2

d wﬁte‘,th_is‘:eolumnvthis'

 is dead; “Aftéi*.,.
. .mg.rri¢"3111astyear.‘r1i¢got 
-’_the, inspiration to name“ his

parvéiying .things_-— 82°13 day 1;,
:31. work, Tim ._forced _.to;..,.say ‘
 Ithgatj are eoirip1ete1y‘_ .-
funtrue, like “big Butlers fan!" 
’s_timc.tobe frank -and

 Ya~Ya.’¥‘ouO.m0u. :3
‘~aﬂndJahidi. Broadcasters  .
:2 n1oref::Ch’ris. Jacksons, not i I

  Capitals are on, but

between Heath Shuler . '

l V  fI‘hat’s,likc"the voters ’
‘ off. 3 Louisiana deeidingbe ,
_tween:~Bdwin Edwards and;
»I),av’id”Dakei»a few years ago.
Youire not gonna winjwith ’

 Better‘ yet, I should speak

"frankly about myself.'. You;-;
‘know, Ionce had dreams too; -
.fro:_n college and. figured ,I_’d ‘

> land.sor_ne high-proﬁle broad’-‘ :: ;

studio with 300 televisions .
Why the

hell do they need 300 We if ‘-
they’re all tuned to the same i

were stuck in a dead end job? ‘

can stay on this side of the.

orbust on any of the oounsel—. I

 
 

 Hey, Johnny  here, BIG   I

 

  
   

 Solisaid sure. Scott was 3:,
-_i~p.re_t§y  to be around, but?
’r*:‘got enough sleep. ,
 , ‘got these wild ideas;
at story he wrote else?’ ‘

I ir1ij=.‘tiiii::ginthiscoli:nin;tiu£.‘‘-; ,

  
  
 

—_

 
    
  
 
  
   
   
    
 
  
 
   
  

 

1

 

 I‘ ' " ~=- " " -=~' ""2"" "" ' -"" '  ' '

 
   

1
-(Il~'.\.\I l'|{-|’l \ MOI ll-l)Ul)(}l

Oi/alum‘/range
and L U B E

COLLEGE SQUARE
(Next to Kroger)

*QUIGK
$ 1 9.95 LUBE
INCLUDES:

°Auto Transmission
Check

°Up to 5 Quarts 10W/30
Valvoline Oil

°Filter Chassis Lube

* most cars

JR /\

The F?ing—tum
Phi:  
We’re not
makin this 0

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.
The Buffet is served from 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m.
We’ll be waiting for you.

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexinton VA

W&L Students

Reserve your se1f—storage unit
now for the summer months

Goon   DEii°§§l3$’§ i.‘2§?.'iig"J$n

Basement of Domino’s Pizza

‘_O
'2.
_.
>
\
C
>
.
7
.3
‘/7
7
.
x—-
C
.
2
5*,
2
.
7
_
/_v
:-
'-’.
.
x
.
C
:
2/"
"P
_.

No Appointment Necwnxy

nouns:
Mm.-Fd 8:30AM-5:00PM .
8atwd:y8-.30AM«2=ﬁ)PM

SPRING ‘ BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!

E campus representatives. Lowest rates I . . ‘

STATES
, _ ' 3 StudentTravelServicesisnowhiring _
0 ,_ to Jamaica’ Cancun, Dayton, and J Caterzng to W&L students
-   it   'Nc0ME   Walk to storage from campus .-
I A = 2 minutes

ﬂI'OO383iD9 '  '0' Reasonable Low Rates
mnowaaesronasa:    By Month 07‘ Year
supplies. postage! No 0 Mam _5 m Daﬂ
    By Iappointment  Saturdiy
immediate! l. Genuine A1 Siz‘?1S{:'1"‘?‘C§"X8’t° 1?’f§3’
opportunity! §1S.A..S. - caiiﬂlﬁii Maiiagii

 '   C&I Associates

l$M\\' - \'m \'o . s1»\/\Is-ml-:s<:liI -/\lIl)I- /\(‘.H/\|{ o NISSAN - norm/\ - I l\|lS - INHNHI - /\(Zl
U1’)-Il|t):l\ll|'.)-Ill

o
r
‘-7

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

I-loueemate Wanted:

 

   
 
 
     
   
  
  

,« Female, l’lOl’l~E5l’l’lOl<6l” _ .. _ 463-3013 or
Ram bagad Om exchanga of 1851   N.-,FEDERAI-W    After5_p.m.: 463-123
eervieee ll .0LI:YWO0D: FL 3302 i _
4; Very CD56 to tow}/I ii laslZ...tlme Bug  But
465-5546

vvasvxl J’. Fuvx along like way;

  It nuesn’t TaIte_A_IvIatn Ivlaiur
To ﬂetluce The coewicientotnraa 10.31

     
  

tu ems ee e .

Earn up to $2000+/mo. working for Crui
,( Shipsorland-Touroompanies+WorldTi-ave
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:

(206) 971-3550 ext. C5342]

ALASKA EP'lPLDlr'l“lENT

FishingIndustry.Eamupto$3000- 9ontonooncoooooccooocuoooo9oooano~ 
$6000+ per nomth Room and Board! '
Transporation! Male or Female. No expe-
rience necessary. For more infonnation
call:(206) 971 - 3510 ext AS3421

 

,,.,,..... .......,. 

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING

 

tudents Needed! Tour guide, instructor,
. ifeguard, hotel staff, ﬁrefighter+ volunteer
. nd government positions available at Nationa
arks. Excellent beneﬁts + bonuses! For
utdoor Employment Program call: (206)
.' 71-3620 ext.N53421

Put .«\’l;&’£l‘ on
your resume
l)q/0/‘cyou graduate

T996 FALL LVIARKETTNG
()l’PORTUNl'l'IF.S AVAILABLE
.»'\T&T in $('('.‘l{lY\_i.‘; aml>m't>u.~s. szalcs-uri<'nIul
stutlt-:nrs to p'.It'l£('l[)3lK(' in our 7-<.l:iy
mi-<.«\tm>w's m.U‘lwting pmgrarrx selling
AT&'l' pr<sdu:'I.~ & st.-‘rv1u.‘.\. il4)l.IT‘S am
l'lexihlt- with tap <:mnpcn.\'.It2I<»rz &
l,\i)t‘ku\’.i?.S Mus; he ;iv.::l;zl’1lu l»-2 M-.-ks

pg-my In the stain of t‘la.~~;«:.\. We m-ml.

ATSIF STI l1)lEN'l'
CA.\»‘lP'US MANAGER
Tn lw re3~’pc)n.stl8le fur ¢x\*m‘.t'§l L"-/(‘Ill
1xizplumritlntiun. tl;tIl\ r1'uinz1;,zmm-m cs‘;
trsnnizsg ml" s’tn<l<~m gm"-1.1;). Requirzax
strong ltr.idxcr,~.hxp ahllit)-1 Prior in;m:z;:c.~
xm:r11.z.~".il<:~;»rclarctl <rx1x-:rit:nn2 a plus.

AT&'l' ASSISTANT S'l'l.ll)EN’I’

(An Do It ilh Lot Of Style.

 

  O R TOYOTA DEALER TODAY. 

 

 

.—nu-u-'ﬁ-QInna-un----I""'!""""""""'i
(IZAMPUS MANAGER Ez—cann. SUITE 275 _ .
'!'¥>‘Iv1';rmxtr ulxmun «if -'m<k~1‘-rs ->n A I 1501 B-IlR!.I.llIDLLE BCH BLVD .
tla‘ ' .i' s s .‘ 1!. A.~s.'.\’l mil‘: nw Jll '.“\' t 1
ll:};>Lt.’lI.::'¥llJlllm. .‘6;al«~.~/lnnlt-r-sing) cx;>:>:':'T  an hgqg [pg Qf ﬂy: unﬁt liecuﬁllﬁd Ilﬂ :   '
 J rm the wudd...VluuO Ind lﬁaltzifklii
accepted cram. guru: in _ I
 -mve-'w"'~.';=..*.:.°'ra'3s.. mm: : '-'*"‘~**"“*$'°‘°*“°°°"°" -
R131"/(.1/\MPl.§$ (.iR(.)l.?l’ C“’’”"‘‘‘'' “V” ’ - caxdanwmred Inurneumey. wows ouananrzsna ‘
‘its act .r~'- our n<1~r:iin;>z1.< rcpn'~<cnr;naw» V335’ gﬁ pgjskgcﬁﬁﬂ [It cltdlf iﬁ you '
_\.l{l.>&i- he <>u£§&<»in,u and .\’.ll<‘.‘<»~‘>llt‘!I‘.(‘€l. '1“ ‘ti "ad £°r__  '  '
,‘.‘}Z,-.i::i‘.i..‘,:?:i“:i$i;"}*‘.i::::‘:..‘§i:::.?ii::‘ sImm—wtmMmT!=W~mENT- u I
.556» of _5.’~7. UT .\('l1(l H"-»t1l3l1.’ (U Mxznpus EMEKJEICY CW3T‘—TcKEI3—REST  '  I
l)i£Ilt3£‘s.\lUl1.\. ln<:._ A‘l&‘l‘ llw -"UiIm<'m.  RENT.K!.5—- '   I
-W ‘Hi. W‘ W *~.<‘«'=-,,-i"*3???<:5:~ net-wrcs-mum BUILD mun cm-:nn~ summon CITY . -- '
lii'u:l.’itlc|pm;s, l>;\ it/l{>§.:2z':;sx.£lw w.-..».-,i...-: “ t d ! : 5-1-uuguj-'3 Yes No 53$ .
§-'.§.,.,§ 5' )fj«!'v->ll‘.lf':ll} ';:=;\=- -ws 0  
6°‘ I Gmm my-:, '
 :0 cre“Ttch:::IsI:Itl ' gm uuuaca-a I: n uegbtcuadondtnllt a uuaucua mmncuu-.1 ht. '
1\5‘_';:u3“:gp€-‘- 0 “cur ’ I van II a ctglsmud lmhiniid visa mm. in: -at VISA Iunmnum-I I
wait "'°" SEW "*5 CWPW 79"“; 3 run. was no rust: coupon room I
Youn CREDIT cums Mu-: wunnc. !_____________________________

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 29, 1996

 

CARTOONS

  
    

 

      
   

 
   

  
 
  

  
 

 

   

  
  

           

   

   

    

       
    
 
  
 
     

  
   
  
  
       
 

. ‘T I ll.l‘l'lflli1l'lllllllll123llll‘lllllil1l‘lll“llllllllllll / 

-TIA:  I ITS QKFE-. TO  I    .IIllIlIIIIl_IIIlillli;li /  Ex V
ClM\RN\ Sﬁl-\0OL °c.‘;‘é“;‘;?a”‘;L.i ‘°“‘$é‘°E°F “E W‘ : llmliliillllllliii‘ / ;%
HAPPEN WIXEN W I   lililll  ‘ . 
‘loll FORGET      ~~ “‘   
. ~" ‘   3
‘I1 ' , Q-_  3

 

.,_I\N\7 \T eweene  I I _" if W‘
tr FORTUNE IN " ‘  I 

TI>~X\DER N\‘l

 
      
   
   
   
  
  

I We AL\Nlx‘<e ‘YDE
exam oN$, Neuiiie
ma Lime oe N\l\N'$
ENTERTAINMENT
Cl>~?l\cﬁ‘(, THAT

60 OUT Tuv, ‘NM .

ii:-i%;..i;W

 

  
    

 
 

Moving to Richmond?
Go For It! Your Own Apartment!

  
     

Don’t Let
Your Student
G0 Hungry

UTILITIES
INCLUDED

FOR HEATING HOT
WATER & cookme
T

A Bistro

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday

8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday
9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

 

(yam

I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
' I l
I Eight minutes to Broad St. -Eight minutes to Downtown! I
I Enjoy your own patio or balcony, modern kitchen, two I
I clubhouses, hot tub, and playgound! Other models available. I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
i :

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad

     
  
 
    

One Bedroom $443°$S49

 

All you can eat $4.99
_ Two Bedroom $490-$638
Thursday - 10% Off food - with student ID Three Bedroom $665°$675 Nutritious Muﬂins & Egg Specialties
. , Fresh Salads & Soups
Fnday ‘ Seaf°°d Nlte ' - w Q Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees
Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout ‘ 0° . .
Saturday _ 8 OZ Prime Rib’ I III” cl-ca COLONIAL C andlelzght Diners
2 Vegsa Salad $8-95 ‘ﬁx ‘ om"! 321-3509 321-4840
_ 1-300-349-5603 1-300-542-5753 -
II.» .  Igotfee $150 I I I ______________________ - .. Give Your Student

     

if,

       
  
    
  

a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

TEACH ENGUSH IN KORE/\~ Positions available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. U5 $l8,500~25,400/yr. Accornodation & round—trip
airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma and copy of paeeport to:
Bok di Coprporation, Cnun Bang Bldg, 15445 Sarneung Dong, Kang Narn Gu,
Seoul, Korea 155090.

TEL: Oll~82~2—55E3—o’OBS(5627) F/\,><: O’ll«82~2—552—4F/\><(4529)

    rink $4-so  

 

19 W. Washington  Lexington, VA 24450

   
 

  
 
       
    

W 
/ APARTMENT FOR RENT
Z WIN TE R SA L E g 306 MCLAUGHLIN STREET
% % Restaurant and 3 BEDROOM
g 5 0 %   0 a II Fa It a n d % -q_[065ie)5 Lounge WASHER/DRYER, REFRIGERATOR,
% Winter Fashions / MICROWAVE
% % Rome 7, BOX 99A WALKING DISTANCE TO SCHOOL
% Sale continues plus lots of new Spring things / Lexington, Virginia 24450 CALL‘ 4634690 (OFFICE)
/ /
% % Near the Horse Center 464'2034 (PACER)
% % Phone 464-9499
  d  LOUI'1g€Op€Il4Z00p.fl'1.IO? ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
%    Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:30 p.m. E  E
g 23 N. Main Street % ;  ;
g Hours: Monday - Saturday10.'00 - 5:30 %  7WM¢'¢'¢¢"w W64 5444“ E
4 E E
***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!*** 3 '9 5‘ 2“““°4‘4 5" 3
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with :  :
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ' ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ' ° ° ' ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° °
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL :——  A - 1: I dug jg
(800) 95‘BREAK!  I CIVIJ V ‘MT

_ Jwaro Mowea, Mara Gangs, Bast Service!‘

‘I72 Walker Street, $w1'wnIt Square, next to this DMV
(540) 463—9354

5 pg 1 D  EARN   Rooms

, any
I   . * Friendly Atmosphere ”‘”Ev_'y"“"'
. ' ' ' " New Wolff Tanning Beds with s“md'y’

32 bulbs!

   

* Great Selection of Tanning
Products!

A r HOME!
PROCESSING    
MAIL!

 

* We offer California Tan,
the nations #1 best solllng

    

 I I lotion! I
,9-3,.» $5.;-”’ ' "' certified Consultants!
/  I " New Membar Special:   I
’ NO EXEERIENCE I "‘:m’jf'f ’°' *3”  
  T   NEC SSARY! ii ,.,  - ~33?‘  
, I I ‘;='::: ;‘§.."."""
  $'|'AR]' DETAILS: RUSH LONG 5.45: : :: ;§,,I,,I,I=I,:.: ’
NOW! m§t1§9.u6 III ‘‘‘‘““'a;‘.'.; ;§._§;‘;;;.;;.;.“a ;E§§§6;§“;“‘“‘§ Y
~  ’ ¢.u....:.“3-"a;’g‘I.“..':";-a.-5e"a"a:>'-1'»... 77.. E

 

\
:
:
l
I
I
l
:
S
l
:
E
I
I
i

~XX$hZ1$ZZZZ‘ZZZZ$ZZZj—ﬂ

 

 

Clhiz ifting-tum iﬁlti

@ne Acts:

from the c[irect0r’5 chat’

r
9

Dudley, golf team prevail

at W&L Invitational

E)

VOLUME 96, NO. 19

-a

.3.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Just ducky!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

As Spring Term approaches so do the proverbial April showers. The rainy day on Thursday will
be followed by a sunny and warm weekend. See Weekend Weather for details.

‘W&L Life educates campus

BY JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee has a new organization
on campus, W&L Life.

The purpose of W&L Life is to educate the
campus about general health issues such as
health and wellness, nutrition, exercise, sexu-
ally transmitted diseases, AIDS, alcohol and
substance abuse, eating disorders, and sexual-
ity.

Founders Mary Lynn King, Karlene N.
Jennings, both seniors, and University Health
Educator, Jan Kaufman came up with the idea
for bringing the organization to Washington
and Lee after attending the Virginia State Alco-
hol held in Richmond last October.

At the conference King, Jennings, and
Kaufman viewed a performance by the mem-
bers of “Straight Talk” from Longwood Col-
lege concerning sexual assault. The gyst ofthe
performance was peer education, that is, edu-
cating and counseling students on a more egali-
tarian level, rather than the same coming from

   

 
  Steven“ Fanning‘. 
   Acuff 

   

   A   
  Maggie Ogilvie
Alvin”

 

an adult source.

From “Straight Talk,” which performed at
Washington and Lee this past week, the founders
of W&L Life gleaned ideas on how to present
material and information to students.

Now firmly established at Washington and
Lee, W&L Life takes the place of several cam-
pus organizations and committees: Health
Education, SAGE (Sexual Awareness Group
Educators), AIDS education project, The WELL
(Wellness Eaating Living and Learning) Group,
and the Alcohol Review Committee.

Under King, Jennings, and Kaufman are a
group of 70 “LIFErs.” These peer educators
were initially nominated by faculty and student
leaders, and then further interviewed by King,
Jennings, and Kaufman.

Of the over 200 initial nominees, 70 were
chosen as peer educators. The educators repre-
sent ten fraternities, all sororities, and nearly all
campus organizations.

The LlFErs are more group-oriented than
the Peer Counselors, who focus more on one-
to-one counseling and support.

Junior Chris Higgs, one of the new peer

 

    

  

 if A 
Mary, Jdimjahoney

Vice President
 Reps »

Z. Taylor Shultz
Chris Baldwin

 
   
    

Stefan N etimeister

educators expressed his personal goals for the
new organization.

“I want to further educate myself on prob-
lems we all face so that, in return, I can inform
other people.”

Mary Lynn King expressed her desire for
W&L Life to continue long after she and
Jennings graduate.

‘‘I would like to see W&L Life continue
through the Fall and ensuing years, sponsoring
programs for various student groups and cam-
pus events so that all W&L students may learn
more concerning wellness and health issues.”

The organization would intially like to per-
form as a part of Freshman orientation.

As King and Jennings are graduating, they
have been conducting interviews for leadership
positions, as well as coordinating three sub-
groups concerning Alcohol and Substance
Abuse, Sexuality, and Health and Wellness.

The organization enjoys complete univer-
sity support and is looking forward to the pros-
pects of educating and counseling on a group
level to students in the near future and a training
program in the Spring Term.

Greta ataxia

 

E.C. Reps

James Haslanri  . 

Brad Baker

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FD: Successes
and surprises

//’

BY DAVID BALSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

This last weekend witnessed Washing-
ton and Lee’s eighty-ninth annual Fancy
Dress Ball. Although hailed as a success by
the student body, this year’s F.D. included
a few unwanted surprises.

The SAB began the weekend by spon-
soring Coolio in the Pavilion on Thursday
evening. Anticipated with trepidation,
Coolio’s performance delighted some and
disappointed others.

Freshman Mary Celeste Foster com-
mented that she initially had been con-
cerned about the rumors of Coolio’s poor
performance in past concerts, but added
that she enjoyed the show.

This enthusiasm was not shared by all
members of the W&L community. Betsy
Howe, a sophomore, remarked that she did
not like Coolio’s performance, stating that
“he talked too much.”

First-year law student Scott DeMai1ino
encapsuled the feelings of some of W&L’s
students, commentingthat he did not attend

the show because he simply is not “a Coolio man.”

MARCH 29, 1996

Despite the mixed approval of the student body, the concert’s huge turnout seems to testify to
its success. As Chris Wick, Entertainment Chairman of the SAB stated, “There were at least 1,804
people who enjoyed that show.”
The Coolio concert provided the weekend’s first minor crisis.
According to Chris Wick, early in the evening a ticket was turned in which did not match the
tickets sold by the SAB.
“One came in that was just a little darker blue,” he commented.
The Rockbridge Area student who attempted to use this ticket was turned away, as were three

others who produced similarly counterfeited tickets.

Wick indicated that plans are being made to prevent the spread of counterfeit tickets in the
future, including the use of computers to create tickets which would be more difficult to reproduce.
Wick did not feel that the appearance of counterfeit tickets at the concert dampened its success,

 

stating that ﬁnding four
counterfeit tickets out of
thousands of legitimate
ones was “not bad.”
Through the persever-
ance of some of W&L’s
students, the Warner
Center became Alice’s
Wonderland on Friday
evening. The night’s fes-
tivities were generally

enjoyed by all.
Freshman John
Farringer enjoyed being

able to choose between
Guy Lombardo’s Royal
Canadians and The
Freddy Jones Band, and
Mike Callahan, also a
freshman, stated that the
evening was the “best
time I ever had.”

Sarah Wood, a junior,

commented that this year’s theme was the best that she has witnessed, but added that she wished
more had been done with that theme.

A second crisis occurred on the evening of the Ball. Near the end of FD, students began to carry
away the decorations which had filled the Warner Center.

Fancy Dress Chairman Ashley Bell commented that this was disappointing because the
decorations had been promised to the local high school for their prom, because the people who had
created those decorations were thereby denied the products of their hard work, and lastly because

some of the things which were taken were rented.

Bell speculated that the students may have assumed that they were permitted ‘to take the
decorations because they were allowed to take ﬂowers last year. She added, “For future reference, '

FD decorations should not be taken apart.”

Despite FD’s difficulties, this year’s ball has been a success both socially and financially.
The financial success of this year’s Ball had not been anticipated; by the

conclusion of the weekend, however, Committee Auditor Jen Greenly could

state that this year’s FD had made a “slight proﬁt.”
According to Greenly, the Ball had been budgeted for $65,000, but costed

    

  

only about $60,000. Fancy

Dress pays for itself
through the sale of tick-
ets and memorabilia.
Aturnoutwhich was
greater than what had
been expected, as well
as the successful sale of
both current and old
memorabilia, combined
to provide the funds
necessary for the Ball,
as well as a surplus.
Plans are already being
made for the surplus;
Ashley Bell com-
mented that the money
may be put into a fund
for next year’s FD, or it
may be spent on an FD

‘ band for this spring.

Bell prefers the lat-
teroption,commenting
that the FD Committee
and the senior class
should have the oppor-
tunity to reap the ben-
efits of their labor.

Bell added that all
plans are currently ten-
tative.

 

  

.1-_o;.:.,¢1.v.-v. v.,u. Ll. -.-.

 

 

   

Page 8 The Ring-tum PiiiMarci'1 29, 1996

FROM THE DIRECTOR'S CHAIR

“The plays cover a wide range of topics and time periods, from the 13th century to the present day,” says Professor
Thomas Ziegler. “They’re all basically about sex in some way or other, but it’s spring and people’s attention turns toward
those kinds of things.”

The One Act Festival has been an annual event on campus for over 20 years. Comprised of completely student-run
productions, the Festical showcases the talents of the entire theater department.

Work on the Festival. began in January, when advanced directing students selected plays and held auditions.

Over the following 11 weeks they worked on Ii ghting and scenic design classes to create the sets and prepare for opening
night.

The six ﬁnal products have been dividendinto two bills. The ﬁrst--set opened on Wednesday night and the second will
open this Frida. No tickets are required, and‘all are invited to attend.

Taraii Grant
Plii Staff Writer

A week after Coolio and his “explicit lyrics” came to campus, a parental advisory note has been posted outside the
Lenfest box ofﬁcc reading, “The One Act plays contain adult situations and strong language. Not suitable for children.”

This year’s one acts promise to bring not only adult content but, continuing tradition, a rich display of talent to W&L’s
stage. Some unusual works will indeed be a part of the Annual Festival of One Acts, works that are not typically produced
during the theater season.

  

 A Saturday, 2 p.m.; Monday, 8 p.m.

“I’m deﬁnitely not a feminist
but I had a great time playing the
part,” said Erin Mullaney, who
plays Alicia (the “Fervent Femi-
nist”). “I understand that frustra-
tion with her husband; there is a lot
of miscommunication in their re-
lationship. The problem is that
Alicia doesn’t acknowledge that
it’s a misunderstanding on both
sides.”

_The Cow oy, The In-
dian, _ t e Fervent
Femzmst centers around a
powerstruggle between Alicia and
her husband, Stanford (Jed Hazlet),
who has taken on the persona of a
cowboy. '

“The cowboy is very retro; he
thinks and acts like a cowboy and
the feminist attempts to deal with
him on his level.” said Director
Maria Hardin. “She talks about
the suffragettes, women’s move-
ment in the cowboy era, and tries
to bring him, kicking and scream-
ing, into the 20th century.”

Nearing the edge of her sanity,
Alicia turns to Dr. Bibberman (Ian
Leavey) for help. However,
Stanford manages to convince the
doctor that he is his Indian side-

Director Emily Pﬁster wanted to
choose a play that had a message
concerning the importance of toler-
ance, She found exactly what she
was looking for in Dou Wri ht’s
drama, T heSt0newa er a -
ture.

“It spoke to me a lot,” explained
Pﬁster, who considers herself to be a
survivor of adolescent strife.

“The play is about peer abuse; it
focuses on two people who actually
give into it all. I think it should warn
other people not to.”

Pfister wanted the character
Whitney (played by Gary Hill) to
parody the stereotypical W&L, stu-
dent dressed in khakis and a polo
shirt. Whitney’s greatest desire is to
be accepted by his high school’s foot-
ball team, the “cool guys” in their
backwater town. Instead, he becomes
the victim of their ridicule. He turns
to his best friend Carlyle (Andrea
Rosa) for help.

But Carlyle ends up being the one
needing Whitney’s support after the
team gang rapes her at a barn party.

The two teenagers seek redemp-
tion in each other.

Dreamers was written by Shel
Silverstein; however, those students
expecting a live performance of the
childhood favorite Where the Side-
walk Ends will be in for quite a sur-
prise.

Director Chris Buford initially
thought that Dreamers “would be a
quirky, funny play suitable for both
children and adults." A page into the
script, he realized his misconception
and laughed the rest of the way through.

Set in a bathroom, two disgruntled
plumbers plumb not only the sink but
the human psyche.

Richie (played by Joe Merlino), on
of the plumbers, has had a dream that
makes him question his sexuality. His
wisecracking sidekick coworker Nick
(Tory Noto) tries to convince him that
dreams aren’t something to get all
clogged up about.

“It’s funny and it’s very realistic,”
said Merlino who plays the part of
Richie.

“Hopefully when the audience
watches it they’ll think they are watch-
ing two plumbers talking like every
day plumbers.”

 

Only in solitude can one realize
the beauty of the sound of a voice.
This is only part of the wisdom that
a Japanese woman shares with her
unex ected visitor in Dan Tiptpn’s
play he Sound of a Voice.

Zach Hanks stars as a samurai
who sets out on a journey to ﬁnd
glory by destroying a woman who is
known to the village as “the witch in
the woods.” What he ﬁnds is a
beautiful, lonely woman (played by
Hillary Lewis) who offers weary
travelers food and shelter.

The only spell she casts on him is
an incantation of kindness. The
samurai is intrigued by the woman
and he realizes that the longer he
stays with her, the more difﬁcult it
will be to leave.

In her world of serenity, he can’t
find inner peace because he is
haunted by the shame that he can’t
bring himself to kill this “witch.”

“The man must choose between
following the dictates of a society
that holds duty and honor above all,
or the dictates of his heart,” Hanks
describes his character. “He can be
man or samurai or both.”

 B Friday, 8 p.m.; Sunday, 2 p.m.; Tuesday, 8 p.m.

Law student Kristopher Ahrend
plays Yuri, a vampire who refuses
to die. After trapping him in a cof-
fin, the town decides to hold an
exorcism to stop his pranks and
hauntings. Misha (Michael Leaser),
the 11-year-old nephew of Yuri, is
left in charge of the cofﬁn the night
before the exorcism and the play
focuses on the conversation that
they have that night.

To Kernan chose 0 direct
Wzl Rose Branc es be-
cause he feels that the characters
“represent many different aspects
of [his] life and personality and the
show is a catharsis for an anxious
senior who is about to enter a world
that at once excites him and at other
times frightens him.”

Kernan’s cast, however, hasn’t
had as easy of a time relating to the
characters.

“As far as I see, a vampire who
refuses to die doesn’t have any ob-
vious parallels with a future law-
yer,” laughed Ahrend, who did his
undergraduate work in theater. “But
I like my character. It’s a heck of a
part to step back into the theater
with, but I’ve enjoyed the chal-

  

Sheri Hamilton was in quite a
predicament when it came to finding
props for this sex comedy by
Terrence McNaully.

“I just didn’t know where to look
for the S.M. things,” explained
Hamilton. “We bought some of the
things at the Virginia Horse Center
and ended up making up the rest.”

A Sedan chair, riding crops, a
bull whip, and a “eat of nine tails”
are just some of the props that are
involved in N 0071, a play about
ﬁve characters who seek meaning-
less sex through personal ads.

Director Denis Riva believes that
he has chosen the perfect cast for his
play, describing them as “an ex-
tremely talented group of people.”

His actors and actresses were
warned at auditions about the “scant-
ily clad” roles and erotic scenes.

“I have a whole new appreciation
for Kurt Douglas in Sparticus,” said
Rob Neel who plays Cecil, a
dominatrix.

After weeks of rehearsals, they
are ready to toss in a little voyeur-
ism.

 

Ienge.”
kick.

Fargo’ s Humor
with an Edge

Kiri: Susong
Plii Reviewer

Fargo: ﬂ ﬁ '{ _ _

Ethan and Joel Coen are probably the two most talented film makers in America
today. These gifted brothers have co-written six ﬁlms, all of them directed by Ethan,
and produced by Joel._ Their ﬁrst feature, Blood Simple, is easily among my ‘top-ten
favorite ﬁlms, and RaisingArizona, starring Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter, is a cult
classic. So it was with great anticipation that I saw their latest feature _

The movie revolves around a set of events that took place in Minnesota in 1987.
When Jerry Lundegaard (William Macy) needs several hundred thousand dollars to
cover a failed scheme, he knows his rich father-in-law will not help him. So he devises
a plan: hire some thugs to kidnap his wife, demand a ransom from the father-in-law for
the safe return of his daughter, and split the money with the kidnappers. No one gets
hurt, he can pay off his debts, and everything turns out happy - or so the plan goes.
Unfortunately, things almost immediately begin to go wrong, and the result IS ultimately
nothing but a lot of unhappiness. _ O _

What gives this film its real edge, and where we see the Coen brothers’ distinctive
touch, is that it is ﬁlmed not as an unfolding drama but as a black comedy. The heroine
of the film in Margie Gunderson (Frances McDonnand), sheriff in Brainerd, Minnesota.
She is a remarkable, earthy, genuinely nice woman, who also happens to be ‘seven
months pregnant. Her condition makes every aspect of her police work tinged with the
absurd. When she investigates the scene of two slayings, she feels nauseous - not from
the blood and gore of the murder scene, but from morning sickness.

The same sort of odd humor infects every part of the ﬁlm. We hear distinctive
midwestern accents and see sturdy homes and mid-line American sedans. all within the
context of random, malicious violence. This isn’t a cynical, rough, or depressed there
are a few bad eggs in the basket who are spoiling everyone’s picnic. ’ “ .

A good example of this brand of black comedy is the scene where Shentt Ivlurgie
captures the principal wrong-doer. The setting is a lonely fishing cabin l'1C.\lt0lIil'0ZCI‘I
lake; in the dead of winter everything is white. When the sheriff turn her head around
a corner, what does she see? The demented kidnapper, trying to destroy :1 human leg
in a wood chipper. There is a huge stream ofred coming from the chipper. standing out
from the whiteness all around. He looks up, as ifcaught in the middle ofbziking biscuits.
The whole scent is full of complete incongruities. The situation is repulsive. but the
characters act as if nothing abnormal is going on.

The result is that when I came away from Fargo, I was left with a lot of mixed
emotions. On the one had the random violence and the complete breakdown of the
kidnapping plan were disturbing, hinting at the arbitrariness of a Godless world.
Conversely, the police catch their man, the wrongdoers are punished, and sotiftelives go
on perfectly unmolested, happy, content and successful. Basically this ﬁlm is Hoosiers
meets Bonnie & Clyde, meets Heathers. It’s a well-made but confueedaafilaar-and I
emerged mysteriously unsatisfied. But I suppose that is sort oftheir point; after all, this
is a cinematic re-telling of very real, very confusing events.

says Fisher. ‘ A
Jhe exact history
‘Stillman, before gat ering ., '
" opinions with fellow meat,‘ "
“We get together and  3
‘ . Fisher recalls. The result? -
. r A- 40 pages of student art- ‘Ii ‘
I tions, but sheer interest is  
V “We’re alwaysbokittg fornewpea ewith-
' new ideas,” Fis§ier;affi_rms  __

 3  Qualiﬁcations 81’€i8'lPOT‘33§1§f9.i't.il€liﬁPi

       

. poemsghe 40 page length’,
. l_,1While thefcriticism is ofte

 

, I  I1 leveled at the

Ariel staff thatthe work of staff members‘
dominates those Works published, Stillman
emphasizes tha_t'eVeryone’s work receives
equal attention.

 . . , gazirieigattra s. submis-
file variety, of students.§ Fisher
 A __ . tlie’s_'taif eonsidered,over.70
;  studentworks of art and1iterature£er_the winter

 

Background art from cover art, Trans:
tion, by Jason Treat.

,_-vs

The Ring-tum Phi, March 29, 1996

it Ellie iﬂtttg-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

And the Oscar goes to...

Like millions of Americans, many Washington

l and Lee students watched all or at least some of the
68th Annual Academy Awards Monday night.
Undoubtedly, you were bedazzled by all the glitter,
glamour, and style. Likewise, you yawned at the
meaningless and unending acceptance speeches that
droned on and on and on...

' You remember those actors who thanked
everyone from the director of the film down to the
guy who applied their rouge during the breaks.
Well, The Ring-tum Phi is not up for any awards
this year, but we refuse to be outdone by Oscar.

, As you may know, our old regime is moving
out and the new one is moving in. Emily and Dan
wish the new staff well and would also like to take
this opportunity to thank everyone who has helped
make this year a success. (Don’t worry, we will not
drone on forever—our producers said they would
cut to commercial if we ran too long.)

A very special thanks to our un-sung heros:
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett, News Editor
Christine Gamavish, Editorial Page Editor Hillary
Coombs, Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter, Assistant

‘ Sports Editor Bethany Bauman, Features Editor
Cindie Young, Features Editor Courtney e. Miller,
Photography Editor Betsy Green, Editorial Car-
toonist Phil Flickinger, and Editorial Cartoonist
Tom F allace.

We would also like to thank our wonderful
ansd talented staff writers and columnists: Tarah

‘ Grant, Keri Dunphy, Laura Knapp, Peggy Stuntz,
Darcey Livingston, Sara McCrone, Robin Seaton,

». Celeste Rasmussen, Kelley Totten, Jason
Zacher,Chris Pugsley, Alex Christensen, Jason

‘ Sorens, Nova Clarke, Joshua Heslinga, Betsy
Green, and Richard Weaver.

And finally a special thanks to our money-
minded business office: Business Manager Bob
Nelson, Assistant Business Manager Doug-Gertner,
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant, and Advertis-
ing Composition Artist Anne Alvord.

To the W&L family

Thank you so much for all the support you have given us throughout this
horrendous loss we have had to endure. Your wonderful tributes, letters, notes,
and contributions have indicated your genuine caring and love for David (D.T.).

, Your thoughtfulness has been unending and kept us functioning. The incredible
A number of you who came to Baltimore for his service (despite the snow) was a
huge tribute to him and really meant a lot to us.

Eventually I will get individual “thank yous” written, but I know it will take
me a long time, and it is important to me that you know how special you all are
and that your kindness has been extremely appreciated. I have never been
surrounded by so many wonderful, caring, and loving people. I know you were
special to David and that he was very happy at W&L. You are a very caring
“family” and will always be part of my life.

Good luck with your futures and know that David (D.T.) is smiling and
asking you to be careful and try to make good decisions. I am asking that you
be careful and make good decisions so that David did not die in vain.

My door is always open to you if you are ever in the area.

Many many thanks for your support-

Very fondly,
Midge Thompson (D. T. ’s mom)

(lite ‘ﬂing-mm lﬂht

Executive Editors
Associate Editor
News Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor gm" Bookwane,
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor ............................................................. ..Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Photography Editor Betsy Gfegn
Editorial CarI00ni<!< Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace

Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Michael Hewlett
Christine Gamavish
Hillary Coombs

Business Manager.
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertisement Composition Artist

Robert Nelson
Doug Gertner
Jennifer Grant
Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wIu.edu

PAGE 9

US needs tougher China policy  

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

While BillClinton’s administration
has shown progress in the area of for-
eign policy, it remains utterly unable
and unwilling to take an uncompro-
mising stand for the interests of the
United States in its dealings with its
largest adversary, the People’s Repub-
lie of China.

Almost a week ago, Taiwanese vot-
ers returned President Lee Teng-hui to
ofﬁce with a landslide 54% majority in
a historic election that marked the first
time there has been a directly-elected
democratic leader in Chinese history.
Yet this triumph came only after a
tense stand-off between the United
States and China over a series of live-
fire drills run by the Chinese military
in an effort to intimidate voters in
Taiwan into electing a president that
would kowtow to Beijing’s commu-
nist regime. These drills included ﬁr-
ing unarmed missiles into the Taiwan
Strait a bare eleven miles from Tai-
wanese cities, requiring redirection of
international air and sea travel to avoid
the exercises.

U.S. policy toward Taiwan is gov-
erned by the 1979 Taiwan Relations
Act. That act prevents U.S. recogni-
tion of Taiwan while stating clearly
that communist China cannot resort to
force to determine the future of Tai-
wan, as it clearly attempted to do in
this clumsy effort at political manipu-
lation.

Mainland Chinese communist lead-
ers still regard Taiwan as a mere ren-
egade province that must one day be
reassimilated into China. And while
U.S. policy does hold to a vague future
one-China policy, the undeniable eco-

nomic and political progress of the
Taiwanese continues to make such a
future absorption a problematic affair
at best.

Unfortunately, the tendency of Chi-
nese communists to bully Taiwan has
been only one in a series of irrespon-
sible actions that compel the U.S. to
take seriously whether it can continue
to reward China for its behavior with
incentives such as Most Favored Na-
tion trading status.

China has
violated nuclear
nonproliferation

when Hong Kong reverts to Chinese
control in 1997, the harassment of dis-
sidents could expand there.

It continues a coercive and mur-
derous one-child population policy
that frequently leads to forced abor-
tions and other abuses. This policy,
which the United Nations still praises
and helps to enforce, even led re-
cently to documented incidents of can-
nibalism of aborted fetuses, condoned
by arms of the Chinese government.
This culture of
death is respect for
human rights and

agreements with
i m p u n i t y
through its sale
of sensitive
nuclear material
‘to Pakistan,
threatening the
balance of power.
in Asia. Just this
week, it com-
pleted the sale of
conventional
sea-based cruise-
missiles and mis-
sile boats to Iran,
which could
pose a threat to
unlimited access to the Persian Gulf.
It has refused to make a real effort
to stop widespread black market pi-
racy of U.S. software and other tech-
nologies in China, costing U.S. busi-
nesses about $2 billion each year.
China’s backward commercial
economy ignores global rules on trade
and provides virtually no mechanism
for the enforcement of contracts. As a
result of these unfair practices, China’s
trade surplus with the U.S. is $33.8
billion and growing rapidly.
It has continued to crack down on
democratic dissidents inside China, and

(C
The Chinese have
happily ignored U.S.
concerns and warn-
ings,secureintheim-
pression that they
face a weakpresident
whose foreign policy
allows them to get
 

dignity?

T h r o u g h o u t
these incidents,
the Chinese have
happily ignored
U.S. concerns and
warnings, secure
in the impression
that they face a
weak president
whose foreign
policy allows
them to get away
with anything.
And sadly, the
Clinton adminis-
tration has only
bolstered such impressions by.--refus-
ing to do anything more than repeat-
edly wam the Chinese government.-

By doing so, the United States has
abdicated its responsibility as leader of
the free world and abandoned its posi-
tion as the only nation powerful enough
to resist and overwhelm the forces of
communism worldwide, particularly
in Asia. U.S. ofﬁcials told Newsweek
that any failure to defend Taiwan will
destroy the U.S. ’s credibility in efforts
to keep a peace in Asia and could ignite
an Asian arms race where advanced
nations like Japan and South Korea

that normally rely on the U.S. for their
security quickly acquire the capability
for nuclear weapons.

Where President Reagan won peace
through strength, Bill Clinton has won
more conﬂict through appeasement by
refusing to apply the economic sanc-
tions that China’s military and com-
mercial actions merit under U.S. law.

Foreign policy has historically been
an arena largely free of partisan com-
bat. However, many in Congress are
now coming to the realization that the
Clinton administration’s actions have
seriously weakened the United States’
position internationally and that the
U.S. must stop mere posturing and
stand up for principle and national
interest.

Upcoming debate over the renewal
of China’s MFN trade status and
Clinton administration decisions re-
gardingthepossibleapplicationoftrade
sanctions will make it clear whether
Bill Clinton is willing to act as a strong
advocate for U.S. interests or whether
he is capable only of token reactions to
the most extreme provocations. Since
China’s exports to the U.S. account for
a third of its total, compared with the
mere 2% of U.S. exports that go to
China, sanctions provide the U.S.’s
best hope to force the Chinese to act
responsibly on crucial military and
trade issues.

Whether or not Congress decides to
increase its symbolic recognition of
Taiwan, it should make it clear to the
Chinese communists that tyrannical
and irresponsible behavior will not be
tolerated. And while the need for a
more hawkish policy should not pre-
vent recognition of positive Chinese
actions or descend to counterproduc-
tive hard-line posturing, the U.S. must
show China that ideas have power and
actions have consequences.

Private justice: moderate anarchy

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98.

The ultimate key to reforming the justice system
is to end government control over it.

Many of you know that I apply the label “libertar-
ian” to my political philosophy, and my arguments
flow outof that tradition. But what I will argue in this
column is not necessarily the opinion of most self-
described libertarians.

Second, my argument will doubtless provoke
indignation and knee—jerk denial in almost all of you.

Ialso recoiled at the idea of a privatejustice system,

whenl first heard it. But I hope that you will give this
argument a fair hearing in the long run.

Government is always morally illegitimate. Po-
litical philosopher Murray Rothbard made the clas-
sic moral case against government in his treatise For
a New Liberty. He wrote:

If we analyze taxation, we ﬁnd that, among all the
persons and institutions in society, only the govem-
ment acquires its revenues through coercive vio-
lence. Everyone else in society acquires income either
through voluntary gift (lodge, charitable society,
chess club) or through the sale of goods or services
voluntarily purchased by consumers. If anyone but the
government proceeded to “tax,” this would clearly be
considered coercion and thinly disguised banditry.
Yet the mystical trappings of “sovereignty” have so
veiled the process that only libertarians are prepared to
call taxation what it is: legalized and organized theft
on a grand scale (11-12).

No matter how good and noble the ends may be,
using taxation as a means is immoral. The ends
never justify the means.

Thus, we find it absurd to call government a
“necessary evil.” If the government is evil, it is
absolutely not necessary, but rather wholly unjust.
We should then end taxation and regulation com-
pletely, and let the private sector assume all of the
govemment’s previous functions, including crimi-
nal justice.

But in many Americans there runs a pragmatic
streak that deﬁnes the good in termsof usefulness. But
even by this standard, a private justice system would
be more useful and efficient than the tax-supported,
monopolistic justice system we currently have.

David Friedman, son of Milton, has written a
clear and entertaining defense of “radical capital-
ism,” in which he shows why we should privatize the
whole government, piece by piece. His book makes

the strongest case to date for a private, competitive
justice system. The book is called The Machinery of
Freedom, and I will quote from it liberally.

Let us imagine how a private, competitive justice
system would work. In the case of businesses’
seeking to enforce contracts, the disputing parties
would go to an agreed-upon arbitrator. Neither firm
will want to break an arbitrator’s decision, because
such an act would ruin the ﬁrm’s reputation, and no
other ﬁrms will ever want to make contracts with that
firm again. Indeed, arbitration already works in the
private sector.

In the case of violence between individuals, arbi-
tration will likely not occur. The person who steals

..fr.0m.,y.0_u will not want to arbitrate with you. Thus,

we peaceful citizens have an incentive to find other
means of protecting ourselves. Hence the wide-
spread demand for burglar alarms, locks, and hired
guards. Under a wholly private justice system, we
might imagine an even greater array of private police
companies who would provide protection to their
customers.

But how would we prevent these protection com-
panies from going to war with one another? David
Friedman employs the following scenario to de-
scribe what might happen (115-116).

I come home one night and find my television
missing. I call my protection company, “Tannahelp,
Inc.” to report the theft. They send an agent, who
checks the automatic camera which Tannahelp has
installed in my living room. He discovers that one
“Joe Bock” has lugged the television set out the door.
Tannahelp contacts Joe and suggests that he return
the TV, along with an extra ten dollars for their
trouble. Joe maintainsthat he is innocent. Tannahelp
sends six employees to Joe’s home to collect the set.
Joe calls his protection agency, “Dawn Defense,” to
protect himself from the Tannahelp agents.

Friedman argues that the protection agencies will
do their utmost to avoid coming to blows, a situation
that would be quite messy and expensive indeed. So
Tannahelp and Dawn Defense get together to nego-
tiate. They can’t afford to waste money on a war
when their competitor “Murbard, Ltd.” could under-
cut their prices. So Tannahelp and Dawn eventually
decide to go to a neutral arbitrator to decide the case.

Private protection agencies would have incen-
tives not to go to war, and private arbitrators would
have incentives to maintain fair reputations.

But won’t the wealthy would get better treatment
under a private justice system through bribes?
Friedman argues plausibly that the incentives against
bribery would be much greater for private protection

agencies and arbitrators than for tax-supported,
monopolistic police departments and courts.

The only incentives against bribery in today’s
socialized system are jail time and getting voted out
of ofﬁce——only if they get caught. It is unlikely that
judges and policemen would be caught for bribery;
they are the very ones enforcing and interpreting the
laws. And voting is usually ineffective; the vast, vast
majority of incumbents are habitually re-elected,
and many judges don’t have to go through popular
elections.

Under a private system, customers would have
incentives to leave the company if it ceased to protect
them. Friedman writes, “The worse the job the

protection agency does, the lower the fee it must;
charge. If the customers of one agency ﬁnd they}
lose, on average, ten dollars a year more to thieves

than the customers of another, they will do business
with the inferior agency only if it is at least ten dollars
a year cheaper.” The only bribe a protection agency
would take is one that is greater than the amount of
the goods stolen, hardly a good deal for the thief who
wants immunity from punishment. A private protec-
tion agency would have no incentive to take bribes,
even if it could avoid getting caught.

Customers would have nothing to do with a
justice company that sells its services to the highest
bidder. Unlike other goods, justice is a good that, if
distributed more to one person, must be distributed
less to another. If I’m wealthy, and I buy a Jaguar,
I’m not taking anything from any poor person. On
the other hand, if I buy immunity from prosecution,
I am taking rights away from other people. These
people will therefore strenuously resist my pur-
chase.

Since the middle and lower classes vastly out-
number the wealthy even in total wealth, it would be
devastating to a rich person’s fortune to buy off a
protection agency at the level required to outbid all
the non-rich. Such an act would also be suicidal for
a protection agency ’s reputation. In short, no wealthy
person would be willing to shell out $20 million to a
protection agency to gain the freedom to steal from
the poor, and no protection agency will be willing to
sacrifice the vast majority of its potential income for
the sake of one ﬁckle customer.

The theories I have just described usually fall
under the labels “anarcho-capitalist” or “libertarian
anarchist.” According to these theories, we should
have law, but not government.

At the least, I hope this essay has provoked some
deep thought about the corruption and inefficiency
of our modern political structures.

Response to Saboe

Paul Saboe’s excellent article on
the honor system should have given
every member of the Washington
and Lee community occasion to
puase and reﬂect on themeaning of
living in a community that is truly
honorable. Students, alumni, and
faculty often boast about the honor
system without knowing its history
or ever engaging in any kind ofcriti-
cal reevaluation of the way we study,
work, or live. We do, however, need
to broaden our deﬁnition of honor-
able behavior.

Douglass Southall Freeman pro-
vides an interesting account of the
honor system in his biography of
Lee. After becoming president of the
college, Lee suspended all rules gov-
erning student life and appealed to
the honor and self-respect of each
student. Usually, he was successful,
but sometimes there were serious
problems. Freeman vividly describes
an 1867 breach of honor involving
an armed student, who planned to
dirupt a meeting oflocal black citi-
zens with the help of three of his
peers. Upon his arrival at the school
where the meeting was being held,

the students separated and surrounded
the building. A black man discovered
the leader of the group peering through
a weindow and began cursing him.
The student assaulted the man and left
the scene with his peers. He eluded
arrest but failed to escape discipline at
the college. Freeman writes: “In ac-
cordance with the honor system..., he
explained the circumstances and as-
sumed the entire blame.” Lee promptly
expelled him and reprimanded the oth-
ers. This incident suggests that Lee
intended the honor system to apply to
offenses other than lying, cheating,
and stealing.

A The white book gives a broad def"-
nition ofhonorand states: “The system
applies to any conduct considered dis-
honorable by the student generation
involved.” I think Lee would have
approved of every word of this state-
ment except the last five. Deﬁnitions
of honor do not change from one stu-
dent generation to another. The 1867
expulsion involved conduct that many
bitter and unreconstructed southern
students would have applauded. The
black man had violated a time-hon-
ored southern prohibition by speaking

to a white man in a disrespectful man-
ner. Yet Lee judged his action as dis-
honorable and punished him accord-
ingly. Assault is always unacceptable
behavior.

If deﬁnitions of honor do not sepa-
rate individual student generations, the
list of possible infractions does. Gen-
eral Lee did not have to worry about
fraternity hazing, students driving un-
der the inﬂuence of alcohol beverages,
drug trafficking or illegal drug use, or
students programming viruses onto
university computers. Today we also
worry about offenses like rape and
other forms of sexual misconduct. Each
of these are serious honor offenses that
have involved members of our com-
munity. Unfortunately, some students
will disagree and refuse to categorize
such actions as dishonorable. I only
hope that the rest of us can appeal to
their sense of self-respect and honor.

Fortunately, the vast majority of
students will never be guilty of any of
the offenses listed above, but let me
suggest a few less serious honor viola-
tions that may be more common prob-
lems at W&L:

——The person who removes a book
from the library without checking it
out and argues that this does not con-
stitute an honor violation because he

intends to return it.

——The students who highlights,
underlines, or defaces library books.

—Students who reﬁll drink cups
in the coop and do not pay extra, in
spite of a sign that prohibits free
refills.

—Those who engrave graffiti into
the doors of the library elevators and
marble bathroom stalls or mar the
surfaces of table tops, desks, and
other university furniture.

——A twenty-one year old student
who willfully purchases alcoholic
beverages for younger students in
violation of Virginia state law.

Most of us have seen evidence
that some of the minor infractions
listed above occur with some regu-
larity. A few people will argue that
my deﬁnition of honorable behavior
is far too conservative and is out of
step with the views of this student
generation. Gray hair and a bald head
certainly place me in an older genera-
tion, but I assert that some aspects of
an understanding of honorable be-
havior are timeless. Dishonorable
actionsoccurfrequently,andthe fail-
ure to recognize them as such is a
problem.

——Ted DeLaney,

assistant professor of History

 

 

Last Week:

Ellie iaing-tum Iﬁlﬁ

 

This

Week:

Sat. vs. Emory & Henry (2), 1 PM;

  

BASEBAI.L~ W, 16-15, at Lynchburg; W, 9-5, vs. Harnpden-Sydney '1‘ue3_ V5, Eﬁgtern Me,-monn‘ ' 3 PM
MLAcnoss2 - W, 19-5, vs. Bowdoin MIACROSSE - Sat. at Franklin & Marshall, 1:30 PM
WLAcRoss: - L, 10-9, vs. Denison; L, 97, vs. Coll. of Notre Dame Wlaacnossa - Sat. vs. Mary Washington, 2 PM;
M’I‘zNNis - W, 7-0, at Emory and Henry Wed. vs. Longwood, 4 PM
W'l‘zNNIs- W, 7-2, vs. Mary Washington; M'l‘aNN|s- Sat. at Emory, 10 AM; Tues. vs. E. Mennonnite
W, 5-1, vs. Williams; and Roanoke, 3 PM; Wed. vs. Lynchburg, 3PM
W, 9.0, at Roanoke GoLr- Wed. at Roanoke, 1 PM
GOLF - Finished first in W&L Invitational Tmcx - Sat. at Battleground Relays, 10 AM
PAGE 10 BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF, TRACK AND FIELD

  

MARCH 29, 199

    

  .

‘unimpressed,  the. I

' ‘ ‘M83593, Wh<.>'i$‘ iii‘???

—gamesinithcf’99s.FecI ‘

I ‘ tournamet_1t’s taterrouads

..comc out of novvheieitlta
V year to  to.”v:natio

.. fumbled vthei.’b«_'tll, V 18 ' ti
. b9undswi:hV..Z.§¢‘q9ad$i¢

‘cake, at’ writes Spot’

’ -°113mPi°P5VhlP? 
 - :Mi¢1iig&9..??§dV$l¥¥YiY¢¥¥~
one c}ose:‘..giim6}*afte,f

the Fab Five might escape . —

,Michigan_didu’t'hav =
,; -Atechu_icalfoalwas;ca __
7. and UNC’.s' I)onalt't.,W

* this game, cither._ Nobody
“.stood‘mnch of a’cltao'ce' ,
' ‘against i-UNLV,‘ the most .-

 
  
   

memorie

 

sr SCOTI‘ Boot<wAL'r8s 

 

   
  
 
  
   

the NCAA.?I‘ournamentfo_r
the last ti§n1é,‘}ct {IS have a
moment "of; ‘siI<j:!,tc_ej‘
<>°3<=hil B01’ H_“ési1$=3'

thetancinaati Bear. 5 5  

 $136.. ,
citmati fonyard rocked the:
sporting estabiishntcnt by 
announcittgthatcight,yes,§:<—-1
eight Bearcats can .be:1ch..V 
over 300 pounds, Missis»-pp
sippi State"; obviousiy

 

    
   
  
 

e

V Bearcats at their own" go
and‘, named,‘ at trip?-:03"
Final Four.,VT1fh.,is Te

his good, days; ranting 
raving over 5 thc}'»’iack“{‘of
fouls calittd; white. Bali-"ft
dogs coach  W34“ 
liams, who has spentthc‘ ——_.i
whole tournament whine ‘ 
ing about”the‘=}3uildogs’.
lack of respect, finaliy had I -‘ .
something to smile about. 
Mississippi . State‘ is-‘
ciassic exampie ofa t ,
that bumbles around d_Ll2"~.<
ing the regular season,  .
gets hot at tournament time... .1.
and charges ,throt1gltt_
brackets. Mucitof this 
be attributed to the  ,
shooting of forward 5.
Dontae Jones, who is _i-_
bringingbackmemoriesof
Michigarfs Glen Rice 
the 1989 tourn‘ameat.. ;i ’
Meanwhile, Syracuseg:
has put together an out- .
standing run of its own,_ff
puilirig off conscctitiv.e£”'
he art-stopping? tiictorie ,
against Georgia and Kan» 
sas to reach the Fine} Four ‘A ._ ‘
and exercise‘ gitostsof ‘C
past totunanzentifaihzres. ~ V » V
5  SP9?-Ki*¥g*0f*9“.1'
narnent memories, _I
compiled a list of the’? ,
best NCAA‘ tournajn ‘

 
 

 
   

    

      

  
  
 
     
   

   

    
 
 
    
   
  
 

to disagree, atthoughicee
in mind _ that"‘I’m_§fm3i'aI
sticking toif ga,tncs'3'in' t

which carry more weigh
4.Ciemsoa‘v’s.UCoun,i V

l 3990 regiotiat_sc‘miﬁna!;‘V Q —

You have aproailyl j
memory if you rcmetgtber "
this game..1‘UConn "ha

    
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  

pxominencégbut
playingintheir ast

season, sectningiyi 
the Huskies" xulagicai year
when it h_i_t,a iayu{5fota?t}e'
69 toad with a; ‘mere .1.
secondsleft-. But thenSco ,3
Burrell, who doubted as at;
minor league baseball»
pitcher, huried the ball
length of the couiftto

George; was céélaaly. 
the winningbaskets with
baseline jumper‘  i I
70 win. Ironiwtil 6.0.1812.

  

in UConn’s next game

 

Duke’s Christian taetta"
hi£theﬁI$!0fhiS_£foV9Sh0
Heard Round the World: "

.. 3..NorthCaroliaa‘
Michigan';1993natio ;

other‘:"durin‘g‘ this Vtoitrn
ment, audit aPPe3.r€d mat,»

again when it took control? ‘

' of the ball, trailing 7331.‘ . 

1\«iichigan’sChrisWebber, _;j'
playing his last cotlegiatec‘ 

same; -wascornered-gait "
cooity. cailed _aTtinteo,
ws:n9seconcs1‘et:.Exce

 
   
    
  

 

liams iced Ithei "1"-7-'71 mu
by sinkizigfourstraightfr
throwsfhcffab Fiye never
returned to the Final Fottrﬁ 
2. Duke Vs.‘ UNLV, '_
i991nat¥ona1 semtftnatt A 5
Duke, the 1990 rut1ue_r.~ 1 .
up to UNLV, didn’t figure , ‘ 5
to staad.f;much.chauce“imv ’ ’ *

 

    
 

 

See THE BIG
FAN,
V. column 6

Ande Jenkins netted four goals by halftime in W&L’s 19-5 win Saturday.

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity men’s lacrosse team added
to its already crowded win col-
umn last Saturday with a victory
over the Polar Bears of Bowdoin
College.

This was only the second meet-
ing ever between the two teams.
The ﬁrst matchup came in 1988,
when Bowdoin defeated W&L,
17-11. But the Polar Bears were
not destined to continue theirwin-
ning ways.

The game marked the begin-
ning of 24th—ranked Bowdoin’s
spring training trip, and the Gen-
erals proved more than up to the
task of showing the Polar Bears
what they need to work on during
the season.

The ninth-ranked Washington
and Lee squad jumped to an early
lead, scoring five goals to
Bowdoin’s one in the ﬁrst quarter.
The scoring in the first half was
led by junior attack Ande Jenkins,
who put all four of his goals in
before halftime.

The Generals opened the sec-
ond half with a comfortable 13-2

Photo courtesy of W&L Media Guide

Generals continue winning
ways versus Hampden-Sydney
Baseball team’s 3-2 ODAC log best in sixteen years

By CHRIS PUGSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

tributed four hits, and second baseman Tucker Bixby got credit for
that amazing double play that sealed the Hornets’ fate.

The Generals’ bats came alive after a slow offensive day against
Virginia Wesleyan. But, if you thought the Generals were content at
the .500 mark in the ODAC, you obviously were not at Smith Field on

Amid all the action of Fancy Dress the Washington and Lee
baseball team still managed to play two games this past week and
avoid the plague of April showers. The Generals moved above the
.500 mark in the ODAC with two straight victories.

On Monday, the Generals travelled to Fox Field to battle the
Lynchburg Hornets in a key ODAC matchup. The Hornets always
seem to be the nemesis of the Generals, defeating Washington and
Lee 17-4 and 3-2 last year, the ﬁnal loss coming on a suicide squeeze

bunt in the ﬁnal inning.

But, the Generals would not be denied their due revenge. In what
was termed a “slugfest”, the Generals squeezed a 16-15 victory out
of a game which saw the Generals smack twenty hits.

Senior pitcher Matt Ermigiotti continued his strong pitching and
survived a slow start in the ﬁrst ﬁve innings. With his seven innings
pitched he now leads the Generals’ staff with over forty total innings

pitched.

Matt Reedy came on in the ninth and induced an inning-ending
double play grounder with the bases loaded and one out to notch

another save.

Golf team captures
W&L Invitational

Dudley cards three-under-par 74
at Lexington Country Club

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L golf team took the
Washington and Lee Invitational
golf tournament on Tuesday,
placing first out of seven teams
with a score of 328.

Hampden-Sydney placed sec-
ond with a 331, Lynchburg ﬁn-
ished third with a 335,
Bridgewater and Roanoke tied
for fourth with 337, and Virginia
Wesleyan came in sixth at 348.

The Generals were led by
Tommy Dudley’s tournament
low, a three over par 74. Four
other Generals, freshman Rick
Burrice, senior Gam Mattingly,
sophomore Tim Zink, and fresh-
man John Huntingdon also
placed in the top 20.

Burrice scored an 82,
Mattingly shot an 84, and Zink
and Huntingdon each carded an
88. Jay Ingram and Trevor Spen-
cer both ﬁnished with an 89.

The Generals will next com-
pete at Roanoke on Wednesday.

Wednesday.

The Generals welcomed archrival Hampden-Sydney to Lexington
on Wednesday, determined to continue their winning streak. For a
brief moment it looked as if the streak might be over.

The Tigers jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead and it looked as if the
Generals might lose. But that was short-lived. The Generals inched
their way back into the game over the next three innings and exploded
to score four runs and hand the Tigers a 9-5 loss.

Junior pitcher Rob Boston picked up his ﬁrst collegiate victory on
the mound and pitched masterfully after an initial slow start. Boston
kept the Tigers off—balance and kept Tigers’ slugger Mark Hazelwood
hitless.

Matt Reedy came on in the ninth for the ﬁnal out and maintained
his place as the Generals’ all-time career save leader.

Matt Errnigiotti ripped a double to right ﬁeld to start the scoring
barrage and continued his strong play at the bat.

The Generals are now 7-7 overall and 3-2 in the ODAC.

Washington and Lee plays host to Emory and Henry for a double-
header -at Smith Field at 1PM on Saturday. Then, the Generals host
Eastern Mennonite for a game at 3PM on Tuesday before exam break.
Tuesday’s game will also be carried exclusively on WLUR FM 91.5.

Men’s lacrosse crushes
Bowdoin Polar Bears

edge over the Polar Bears.
Sophomore attack Jason Myers
quickly netted two goals for
Washington and Lee. The Gen-
erals went on to win, 19-5, with
Jenkins and Myers leading the
way with four goals apiece.
Junior midfielder Shane
McLaughlin, sophomore
midﬁelder Ed Dougherty, and
sophomore attack Tom Fallace
each added two goals, while se-
nior attack Russell Croft, senior
midﬁelder Adam Butterworth,
sophomore midfielder Robb

Greenfield, and senior
midﬁelder Duncan Slidell each
put in one.

Washington and Lee’s
goaltenders saw more rotation
than usual during the matchup
with Bowdoin._ Sophomore
goalie Scott Jackson, who made
ﬁve saves for the afternoon, was
backed up by junior Chris
TeStrake, who blocked three
shots, and freshman Chris
Noland, who stopped one. The
win put W&L at 6-1 for th
season so far. a

The Generals are now look-
ing forward to their next game,
which could be one of the tough-
est they play all season. They
will travel to Pennsylvania to

   
   
    
    
     
   
    
     
  
   
    
     
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
     
    
   
   
   
       
  
 
 

meet the Diplomats of Franklii
& Marshall College this Satur-
day. »

Fifth-ranked F&M goes intt
the matchup with a record of3-2-
This record includes a win OV(
Cortland State, who upset tb
Generals in the championshi,
round of the W&L Men’s Lad
crosse lnvitational earlier in the ,
season. The Diplomats are led
by two of the best attackmcn in
Division III, seniors Chris’
Mergardt and Don Gervais.

This game could bring back .
fond memories for W&L goalie
Scott Jackson. During last year’s
meeting with the Diplomats,
Jackson saw his ﬁrst substantial
playing time of the season, and ,
turned in a solid performance’
with nine saves and only ﬁve
allowed goals.

The series between Franklin ’
& Marshall and W&L stands a
5-5, with the Generals looking
for their first victory over tht
Diplomats since 1993.

Whichever team wins on Sat
u_rday will probably move int
the top five of the USILI
coaches’ poll, following 12t
ranked Middlebury College
upset of fourth-ranked Roano v.
on Wednesday.

 

J ockShorts

  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
     
    
   
  
    
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 

THE BIG FAN,
from column 1

dominant team in the last de-
cade. UNLV was 34-0 on the
season and had annihilated ev-
eryone in its path, but Duke
wouldn’t go quietly into the
night. In fact, they didn’t go at
all. Laettner nailed two free
throws to give Duke a 79-77
lead with about 10 seconds left.
A confused Larry Johnson aired
up a wild three-pointer as time
ran out on UNLV’s perfect sea-

 

Women’s Tennis

Photo courtesy of W&L Media Guide T
The Generals tee off at the Lexington Country Club

ATHLETES 0F

    

Ericka Shapard

Shapard had a huge week on the courts
as she won the #1 doubles and #2 singles at
Guilford, and captured the #2 doubles and
the #3 singles versus Mary Washington.

THE WEEK

 

Nathan Hottle

Men's Swimming

Hottle dominated the NCAA Cham-
pionships last weekend by winning All-
Amcrica awards in the 200 IM, the 200
breast, and the 100 breast.

son and Duke escaped with on«
of the most stunning upsets ever ,

1. Kentucky vs. Duke, 1992
regional ﬁnal:

From halftime on, emotion
rode on every basket. Kentucky
rallied back from a double-digit,
second half deﬁcit, and the lead‘
kept bouncing back and forth
through the end of regulation and
into overtime. Finally with time
running out, Kentucky’s Sean }
Woods, one of a few players who '
had remained at UK despite sev-
eral years of probation during the
Eddie Sutton era, hit a running ‘
jumper in the lane, giving UK a ‘
103-102 lead. With only 2.1 sec- T
onds left, Duke’s repeat title g
hopes were all but dashed. But A
then Duke’s Grant Hill threw a
long outlet pass similar to
Burrell’s pass two years earlier.
Laettner grabbed it at "the foul ’
line, turned around, and the rest
you’ll see forever on CBS’s tour-
nament intro. Duke carried its
incredible 104-103 win onto an-
other national championship _
over, yes, the Fab Five.

It would be great if we could
see a game in this year’s Final —
Four with the same intensity and
excitement of one of those ﬁve
games, as well as the many oth-
ers which deserve mention. And -
maybe the next Laettner, George, -
Rumeal Robinson, Keith Smart, ,
or Chris Webber will develop.

 
 
  
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
 
 

  

    

 

