,9,/,§I,§.?3"'!."".:“-*T«”*.« 5.. Jun vacuums’
 W2. ‘-*5‘ *9

0312371995

  PARENTS’ WEEKEND EDITION

Cross country
teams race well
at Gettysburg @

 Sound Full
Oil Silence..." 9

,3 [L

VOLUME ,96,’NO. 7

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 27, 1995

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Our cherished tradition

As Washington and Lee welcomes newly inaugurated President John William Elrod, the W&L

John W. Elrod inaugurated

Washington and Lee
embraces a new era
and honors tradition

BY KER] ANNE DUNPHY
Phi Staff Writer

While many W&L students relaxed in the
comfort of their own homes over reading days,
numerous people flocked to our campus to
witness and celebrate the inauguration of John
William Elrod, the new president of Washing-
ton and Lee University. The ceremony took
place midday Saturday in front of Lee Chapel.

The procession included the University
Marshall, W. Barlow Newbolt, the presidential
party, the university trustees, the deans of the
University, various delegates from universi-
ties, colleges, learned societies, and educa-
tional organizations, the W&L faculty, several
student delegates and various alumni delegates.

The opening invocation was given by Tho-
mas V. Litzenburg, Jr. ‘57, the director of the
Reeves Center and Acting Chaplain of the
University. Litzenburg prayed that God would
“send down upon the president of this Univer-
sity . . . spirit, wisdom, charity, and justice . . .
that {he} may faithfully fulfill {his} office.”

Following the invocation, greetings were
presented from several sources. Representing
the faculty, W&L professor Barbara J. Brown,
greeted the crowd on what she called a “red-
letter day.” She expressed the faculty’s plea-

Senior Nova A. Clark, who called Elrod an
“example of what it means to be a part of this
university.” Clark expressed her confidence
that President Elrod will lead W&L into the
21st century continuing to incorporate change,
but without losing our many long-standing tra-
ditions.

H.E. Derrick Jr., mayor of Lexington, who
spoke on behalf of “the city of Lexington and its
citizens” had numerous accolades to offer Elrod,
under whose leadership, “the bond between the
university and the city can only grow stronger.”
He is proud that the Selection Committee had
the sense to not only “chose one of their own,
but also one of our own.”

Finally, Sidney M.B. Coulling ‘46 presented
“greetings from more than 19,000 alumni.” He
claimed that Elrod has gained their confidence
through his own love of the university, his
“appreciation of its tradition and heritage” and
his strong “faith in the importance of liberal
education.” Coulling assured Elrod the contin-
ued loyalty and support of the University’s
many alumni.

These short greetings preceded the convo-
cation address by John W. Kuykendall, Presi-
dent of Davidson College. Kuykendall chose to
consider the seemingly questionable future of
liberal learning, a timely topic in light of the
University’s upcoming bicenquinquagenary
(250th anniversary). He asked the audience to

sure of Elrod’s new position and stated that they
are “counting on you {Elrod} to be here well
after the year 2000.”

Her sentiments were reiterated by W&L

Steering
Committee
organized

community continues to live and learn in the tradition of presidents past.
-> See ELROD, page 2

Friday

Slow Jerk and Big Blast--SAE

Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
--Sigma Chi

BY ROBIN SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Saturday

Three Men and a Lad --KA
Southbound--Kappa Sig

Mike Latham Band--Phi Psi
Gentlemen and Their Ladies--PiKA
The Grandeurs--Sigma Chi
Dean Dollar Band--Sigma Nu
Heaven and Hell Party with On

Beyond Z--FIJ I
R&B All-Stars--Pi Phi
Midnight Movers--Phi Delt

Members forthis year’s Fancy Dress
Steering Committee have been chosen
after an extensive interview process,
according to FD Chairperson Ashley
Bell ’96. This was the first big step
toward organizing the event, to be held
in late March, stated Bell.

Interviews were held on October
11th and 12th, to select coordinators
for decorations and entertainment, as
well as chairpersons and members for
the ﬁve sub-committees. Decorations
will be organized by senior Ann
Howard, while junior Chris Wick is
entertainment coordinator.

Chairpersons for five sub-commit-
tees were also selected, as well as addi-
tional members for these committees.
Publicity, playbill, memorabilia, and
construction each have two members
in addition to the chair, while the invi-
tation sub—committee consists of a
chairperson and one other member.

This year’s Fancy Dress will fall
three weeks after Mock Convention,
but Bell does not expect any problems
or lack of enthusiasm from students.

“ED. is a tradition,” she says, “and
it will be just as good if not better than
ever.”

The entire steering committee will
meet each week until the event, and
Bell anticipates selection of this year’s
theme within the next few weeks.
However, this will remain a secret to
students, she says, “until the invita-
tions go out.” Bands for the two gyms
have not been booked yet, but Bell
states that there will be a swing band in A
the big gym, with another group per- V V, 1 ' _ ‘_ _ . , _ __ _ __ 
forming in the smaller gym, as usual. mi Willperform, with M T. New ‘98 cello s0l()i$t and Maestro“'Mma“‘
Bell encourages interested students to Xi uest‘.eondueto:,‘in the Lenfes Centefs Ke1ier.fI’heatre.
sign up for contract work in January. ’ 5

Parents‘ Weekend
Band Parties

  _ enda:10i3;in;
*3’ “if V‘!8’S.hi!>st9i:, nd

" Fi ..
W&L parents will be visiting the picturesque town of Lexington this weekend.

 . BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

Clinton discusses recent

issues with President Zemin

New York—-President Bill Clinton and President Jiang Zemin of China
met Tuesday at the Lincoln Center to discuss various conflicts which have
arisen in recent months between the United States and its Most Favored
Nation. The United States’ policy of allowing visas to Taiwanese ofﬁcials,
despite its refusal to formally recognize Taiwan as a nation separate from
China, will remain intact, although Zemin took serious offense at the recent
visit of the Taiwanese president for his college reunion. Clinton was also
rebuffed during the course of the summit when Zemin refused to discuss
China’s human rights policy and chided the U.N. and other powers for
interfering in China’s policies. Talks will continue between the two
nations next month in Japan.

Quebec citizens continue

efforts to secede from Canada

Quebec——As Monday’s elections approach, English-speaking citizens
of Canada, as well as U.S. officials, are hoping that recent polls showing
a slight majority of Quebec’s citizenry in favor of separation will prove
false. School children, authors, farmers, and public ofﬁcials from many
nations are appealing to the French Canadians to remain a part of Canada,
rather than seceding in response to the government and English- speaking
citizenry’s refusals in recent years to approve legislation designed to
beneﬁt the French-speaking province. Citizens on both sides of the
question agree that secession would cause major political and economic
upheaval, not only in Canada, but in most of the other major world powers.

Webber takes off five weeks

for shoulder rehabilitation

Ann Arbor, Michigan—The Bullets’ Chris Webber, who recently
signed for a record NBA salary, will be out for ﬁve weeks in order to
undergo rehabilitation for his dislocated shoulder. Doctors provided
Webber with the option of surgery, which would completely heal the
injury, but would require him to be out for several months. The recommen-
dation for ﬁve weeks of strength training came from a doctor outside of the
Bullets organization, but team officials say that team doctors will recom-
mend the same course of rehabilitation and that, once rehabilitated,
Webber should be able to avoid further injury.

'I‘ime-Warner to change rules

of parental advisory stickers

Los Angeles—ln response to recent criticism of Time—Warner for
releasing records with explicit lyrics, and to the results of surveys of
parents, the recording industry is beeﬁng up its system of parental advisory
stickers. The changes are designed to provide parents not with a system of
censorship, but with a more reliable method of screening the music their
children will listen to. Stickers will be more uniformly sized and
placed, and companies will be encouraged to promote the system
through advertising.

    cor WATCH

 

V Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a
specialweekly feature to keep Washing-
ton and Lee's students informed about
the Republican Presidential Campaign
in advance of Mock Convention.

Governor Wilson endorses

Dole for GOP nomination

Former presidential candidate Governor Pete Wilson of California
threw his support behind Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole in his bid for
the Republican party’s presidential nomination. With Wilson’s endorse-
ment, Dole has won the support of the GOP hierarchy in California, which
sends the largest delegation to next summer’s Republican National Con-
vention in San Diego. Many believe that Wilson’s endorsement will be a
boost to Dole’s campaign in California. It is being challenged there by
Senator Phil Gramm, who is strongly supported by the GOP’s strong
conservative wing of Southern California. However, most political opera-
tives agree that if General Colin Powell enters the GOP race, Wilson’s
endorsement of Dole would be meaningless.

Powell's platform proving

devisive among conservatives

The prospect ofa Republican presidential bid by General Colin Powell
has sparked angry conflict between once friendly leaders ofthe coiiserva-
tive movement because ofPowell ’s support ofabortion rights. This dispute
reveals how a Powell candidacy might split the conservative wing of the
GOP and also illustrates the increasingly heated battle over strategies to
fight abortion.

Beyond the Blue Ridge and GOP Watch are
compiled by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

Phi Eta Sigma to
hold induction

Bv RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee Chapter of Phi Eta
Sigma, a National Honor Society for freshmen, will
induct 56 students this Friday at 3:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. Assistant Professor of Art George Bent
will speak on “The Age of Discovery.”

Phi Eta Sigma serves to recognize and inspire
freshman scholastic achievements.

Students with a minimum grade point average of
3.5 were notiﬁed of their selection by the faculty
advisor of the W&L chapter, Associate Dean of the
College Cecile West-Settle.

The Ring-tum Phi would
like to congratulate the

Phi Eta
Sigma
inductees

Rachel Ann Allen

Jack Richard Bebee
Christiana Petra Callahan
Anurag Munzni Chandra
Kendall Lee Cruickshanks
Maria Milagros Daly

Kristoffer Johan Neville
Matthew Emmett O’Brien
William Edward Olson
Tara Eileen Patterson
Stacy Melissa Patton
William Rueger Poynter

Aubrey Reed Deupree Christopher Scott Pugsley
Jonathan Regan Doherty Celeste E. Rasmussen
Juliana Shand Edmunds Nicole Marie Richard
Noah Michael Egorin Erin Theresa Rosencrans
Charity Lynn Forstmann Robert Thomason Russell
Allison Fairbanks Frey James Glenn Schweer
Marisa Linda Frost Robin Danielle Seaton
Natalia Maria Garcia Jacob Ogilvie Sewall
Molly Katherine Giese Anne Caner Shaw
Michael James Gilchrist Zachary Taylor Shultz
Tyler Christian Haring Scott Carl Silvers

Jana Lynn Heisler Jason Paul Sorens

Jill Lisa Herman Sarah Elizabeth Swisher
Joshua David Heslinga John Joseph Thrall
Marium Grace Holland Timothy Scott Trigilio
Robert Murray Hughes Richard Dunning Walter
Gregory Scot Kees Scott Morgan Wein
Andrew Peter Kintz Sunda Denise Wells
John David Kritser Brian Joshua White
William Thomas Lowrance Lauren Lee Willson
Mary Josephine Mahoney Cindy Judith Young

Sara Scott McGeorge Nora Marie Zwehl-Burke

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

Summer is “1eaf”-ing

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Colorful leaves piled on Washington Street remind the Lexington
community that the seasons are once again changing.

College Democrats ‘

EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the last of a three-part series

highlighting different political organizations on campus. ’
The club has had three formal meetings thus far.
By Cerissng Rasmussian At one of the meetings the campaign manager for the
phi Staff wmer local Democratic Virginia Delegate candidate spoke
to the group which hopes to get involved in the local ’
Virginia state elections as well.

Rounding out the list of campus political organi- Besides the president, the College Democrats’
zations is the College Democrats. Comprised of main ofﬁcers include junior Melissa SawyerasVice-
about ﬁfteen members, its main goal for this year, president and sophomore Robin Boyce as treasurer.
according to President Nova Clarke, revolve around Clarke urges any students interested in joining the K

the upcoming November elections.

College Democrats to contact her.

John W. Elrod inaugurated»

up ELROD, from page 1

think about the value of liberal arts institutions such as W&L. What is our
mission? What are our challenges? What are our priorities and, most
important, why?

The answer to these questions, claims Kuykendall, lies in the basic idea that
institutions like ours are valuable in that their mission is to be “agents in the
formation of character of people who can make a difference in this world.” He
holds that there are four key concepts that provide the keystone of places like
W&L: self-consciousness and the capacity for growth, an appreciation of
heritage, the capacity of critical judgment, and the necessity of integration.

By self-consciousness, Kuykendall was referring to the idea that people who
attend small liberal arts institutions take themselves seriously and come with a
desire to grow. For this reason, said Kuykendall, “the personal dimension of
what we do here is primary.” This intimacy is necessary to our mission; it fosters
a community in which “we life and learn in a special way” for four years,
constantly growing

The second integral part of our University, according to Kuykendall, is “a
capacity to nurture in those who come an appreciation of time as a medium which
conveys . . . the human experience” through both intellectual legacies and
spiritual insights. We must see history as a tool which we can use to understand
the “symbols and ideals” that form the skeleton of our own society. Each student
who passes through the walls of the University will learn to apply his/her own
“interpretative templates on our inheritance.”

This understanding of our own history is fundamental to our type of
institution. It encourages faculty and students alike to “rediscover and unpack
the legacies of time to each generation.” It is only through this cognizance that
we are able to fully understand our own heritage. Perhaps our very own Robert
E. Lee said it best. Kuykendall quoted Lee as having said, “ The march of
providence is so slow, and our desires are so impatient . . . the life of humanity
so long, the life of the individual so brief, that often we see only the advancing
wave and are thus discouraged. It is History that teaches us to hope.”

The mission of “deﬁning and enhancing of judgment” further deﬁnes the
value of institutions like Washington and Lee. A liberal arts education teaches
us to ask “why” things are the way they are rather than practicing blind
acceptance. Kuykendall quotes from Dylan Thomas who wrote, “ ‘. . . useless
presents like books which told me everything about the wasp but why.”’ Our
mission is to realize and teach the necessity of asking “why?” in order to ﬁnd
“the best and most appropriate way to say because.”

Liberal learning insists upon probing further with “whys” so that students
may make careful choices. The best choices, claims Kuykendall, are those that
“take the broadest viewpoints.” These viewpoints, he believes, are only fully
understood after the question of why has been explored.

Perhaps the most important aspect of our mission, however, is fostering the
understanding that the “becauses” we generate from asking “why” are not
significant alone. That is, it is essential that they be integrated in order to see the
whole picture. This is a crucial part of liberal learning, as we strive to
“understand the connections between and among all of the things we learn”
claims Kuykendall.

Our ultimate purpose, then, is to synthesize all “strands of human knowl-
edge” in order to increase our cognizance of what Kuykendall calls the “central
unity” of knowledge. Kuykendall told of a time when he spoke with Robert Frost
and Frost told him that, “leaming is the surprise of seeing a relationship between
things you’ve never seen before.” This, claims Kuykendall, is the essence
of our mission.”

Following this mission, institutions like Washington and Lee are able to act
as ”catalysts for change” in that they nourish in students the capacity for growth,
an appreciation of heritage and tradition, a capacity for critical judgment and the
understanding that all knowledge must be integrated. These guiding principles,
according to Kuykendall, render our students capable of making a difference
wherever they maybe.

Following Kuykendall’s address, John William Elrod ofﬁcially became the
22nd president of Washington and Lee University.

After his inauguration, President Elrod spoke for a while on the concept of an
academic community. He addressed the current idea that in “the academy” there

  

is forming irreversible contention among students. This contention has been

dividing college campuses into opposing “camps” on the basis on racial and.
gender lines. He proudly claimed that this has not been the case at W&L. Our

students, Elrod said, “live together in amazing harmony.” Have we just

been lucky? ‘

According to President Elrod, our harmony has not been a question of luck,
but rather a function of history and civility. Though we each bring a unique
background to W&L, we share the history of W&L. We share the understanding‘
and remembrance of the history of our University. This history, evident in the
names of our buildings, our neoclassical architecture, our honor system, and
Lee’s curriculum, (to name just a few) binds us together producing the cohesion
and harmony that is central to W&L.

Furthermore, claimed Elrod, our “commitment to honor” and our respect for,
{each person’s} personhood” as reﬂected in our honor code and our speaking
tradition creates accord within our community. We refuse to be strangers to each
other and are committed to treating each other with due respect and civility
because we realize that, as Elrod stated, “respect knows no physical boundaries.”
This commitment applies not only on the Hill, but also in the dorms, on the ﬁelds
and it even “spills over into Lexington.” This , claimed Elrod, not “the watchful
eye of Providence” is the key to the harmony we achieve in the academic
community we know as Washington and Lee.

Elrod ’s words were followed by a selection by the W&L University Chamber
Singers entitles “O Clap Your Hands” which marked_the end of the ceremony.
A luncheon honoring President Elrod was held immediately afterward. ’

W;-’t'27¢E2&P0.4’5

‘Q

3'

7? 5. zcwdaéﬂé 55.
463-2742

 

 

I

I

ﬂ

.3»

if-

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995    

“Deafness isn’t the opposite of h

 

Wsasilence full of

life

earin

PAGE 3

,as youthink.

The curtains of Lenfest Center open

 

OI1

jeff mitchell
phi staff writer

“Deafness isn’t the opposite of hearing, as you think. It’s a silence full of
sound.”
—Sarah Norman

The curtains of Lenfest Center will open this Friday to a play that has earned
both the delight of theatergoers and the acclaim of critics; that play is Mark
Medoff’s Children of a Lesser God.

Focusing on the relationship that develops between a colorful young deaf
woman, Sarah Norman, and her hearing teacher, James Leeds, Children is
moreover a celebration of the possible unity of the worlds of sound and silence.

In the course of its ﬁfteen year existence, Children of a Lesser God has
received such illustrious distinctions as a Tony Award, an Outer Critics Circle
Award and a Drama Desk Award for the best play of its season.

In addition to the on-stage experience Dillon brings to the play, she brings
another skill particularly helpful in her current role, her ﬂuency in sign language.
In fact, Dillon has known how to sign since high school for the purposes of
communicating with a deaf friend.

Other cast members, on the other hand, had to start learning to sign from
scratch.

Zach Hanks, who plays James Leeds, the male lead, says that he and other cast
members “had to learn a lot [of sign language] in a very short time. We studied
with the former principal of the Virginia School for the Deaf, and two other
teachers. It was very difficult at ﬁrst and daunting to all, but once we started
learning it, it all came together within a week or so ago.”

Like Dillon, Hanks has acting experience at W&L to boast, having performed
in last year’s production of Macbeth as Macduff at the Lenfest Center.

“After reading the play, I fell in love with it,” Hanks admits, adding, “this part
is definitely the most challenging and extensive role that l’ve ever been faced
with—and possibly will ever be faced with.”

Besides Hanks and Dillon, Phaedra Cianciulli (playing the part of Mrs.
Norman), Maria L’Engle Hardin (Edna Klein), Drew Higgs (Mr. Franklin),

Megan Johnson (Lydia), and Bill Overbaugh (Orin

The production has provided the actors with the
challenge of learning what amounts to a new language,
that of American Sign Language.

“Injust ﬁve short weeks, from first rehearsal to first
performance,” the playbill reads, these students “have
attempted to recreate this multi-lingual production.”

Enlisting the help of Race Drake, once a principal of
the Department for the Deaf at the Virginia School for
the Deaf and Blind in Staunton, the cast members
participated in intensive training sessions, in order to
learn sign language as quickly as possible.

With the production opening in less than a week,
many of the actors and actresses bringing Children of a

Cast member Zach Hanks
enthuses, “It is an excellently
written love story, which at the Overbaugh both express excitement and optimism
same time makes the face
issues concerning an oft-
ignored minority...”

Dennis) join the cast of Children ofa Lesser God.
Daniel M. Tipton, in addition, adds numerous
experience both on and off stage as the Stage
Manager.
Two newcomers to Lenfest, Higgs and

about joining the cast and performing in college.
“As a freshman coming in from high school,”
Higgs reflects, “it is so different. [As far as drama
is concerned] I came from an extremely close knit
high school and I didn’t expect it to be so here.”
Overbaugh explains that he auditioned for Chil-
dren ofaLesserG'odbecause “I wanted to learn sign

Lesser God to W&L’s stage have come into the spotlight
nearly as much as the characters that they play.

Jeanne Dillon, who plays the female lead, Sarah Norman, provided the
instrumental thrust for the play, which will serve as her senior thesis.

Dillon, explaining how she initially became interested in the play, says,”I like
Sarah a lot, and this [role] gave me the chance to explore something I might not
have otherwise been able to explore, because deaf actresses usually play Sarah.”

For Dillon, acting is nothing new. She has appeared in many W&L produc-
tions including The Imaginary Invalid, The Lady’s Not for Burning,
E leemosymary, Other People ’s Money, Self Torture and Strenuous Exercise, and
Macbeth.

language for a long time and this seemed like a good
way to do so. Also, I love theatre.”

All cast members are quite excited about their production, and encourage
everyone who is able to attend the play to stop by.

Hanks enthuses, “It is an excellently written love story, and at the same time
makes the audience face issues concerning an oft-ignored minority.”

Children ofa Lesser God opens in the Johnson Theatre this Friday, October
27, at 9:00 p.m.; additional performances will be October 28 at 2:00 and 8:00
p.m., and at 8:00 the nights of October 30, 31, and November 1.

Tickets are now available at the Lenfest Center Box Office (463-8000).

 

Sarah (Jeanne Dillon) wows her mother (Phaedra
Cianciulli), Mr. Franklin (Drew Higgs) and James
(Zach Hanks) with her card—playing skills.

&L's Children of a Lesser God

 

PAGEG

 

cind young _
ph/fea ures editor

On November 1, the W&L campus
will host the nation’s largest literary
effort, bringing the talents of five writ-
ers of the college and its surrounding
community to one stage, while at the
same time ﬁghting a problem that
plagues more than 20 million Ameri-
cans daily: hunger.

The purpose of Tuesday’s event,
“Writer’ s Harvest: The National Read-
ing,” is, according to its mission state-
ment, twofold: “to raise funds for
groups fighting hunger nationwide,”
and “to untie the country’s literary
community while raising public aware-

ness of the issues related to hunger and
povertv.”

Sponsored nationally by the W 1 t h ofthec0m- Tuesday’s “Writer’s Harvest,” will
nation’s leading anti-hunger organi— s 0 m e m u n i t y , enable the Blue Ridge Food Bank to
zation, Share Our Strength, and lo- sense of serves fur- distribute $10 of food, the reading
cally by the English Department and purpose ther to rec- offers members of the W&L commu-
W&L’s Society fortheArts,“Writer’s and not ommend it nity the opportunity at once both to
Harvest” promises to satisfy both the total 1 y as awonh- hear some of the best local talent, and
intellect and the conscience of all who haphaz- while hour to contribute to a real problem plagu-
attend. a r d l y  or two. ing America today.

Before a microphone in Northen [during] A i d e d In answerto the question, “Why do
Auditorium, ﬁve talented writers from m y in its effort I write?” featured novelist Lisa Solod ‘
the greater Lexington community will f r e s h - by the par- points to the great satisfaction she hilt ‘ t
share their works, ashave hundreds of man year ticipation ﬁnds in “the pleasure of the text, the ,. ‘ -_ 
other writers—of both local and na- a t of Ameri— canvas,thestage,when presentedwith  QW  ._ 40 a.n-tl hun_ I .
tional distinction—in the duration of W&L.” can Ex- talent, joy, love, intellect.” “ organizations nthe United Statesse;
the event. Still— p r e s s , That Tuesday’s reading will fea- - - '*’-“_jI I

Three of the featured readers to man too , . ,... ....  ........ . Share Our turethe resultsofthe‘talent,joy,love, Canada and developlng countries’ Z '
share their time and talent, Ainsley is grate- , , Strength’s and intellect’ not 'ust of one, but of
Fisher of Richmond, Virginia, David ful for The Blue Rldge Food B“_"k'sﬂe‘" 0-f”“‘ck“ ‘"5 “Writer’s ﬁve distinct writerjs of the Lexington
Stillman of Virginia Beach, Virginia, the op- C0"-Wlntl)’ 0" the 70adP1Ck1"8 “P and dl5”ib“ti"8 Harvest” Community, coupled by the fact that
and David Olimpioof Houston,Texas, portunity food for the needy in 25 Virginia counties. has earned all donations will benefit a worthy
hail from the senior class of W&L “Writer’s in its three cause indeed, ensures that W&L’s
itself. Harvest” year his- “Writer’s Harvest” will surely afford

All three, having received invita- I

 

    
 
   

w&|ife

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

tions from the English Department,
have established themselves as ac-
complished writers within the student
body, and their readings will doubt-
less be rewarding.

Fisher, recalling the ﬁrst couplet
she fonned (“Sometimes I wonder/
What causes thunder”), reflects that
herfulﬁllment from poetry now comes
not so much from a blatant rhyme as
from the more “subtle sounds of the
language.”

Asked about her participation in
Tuesday’s reading, Fisher admits, “I
am a little nervous, but I’m looking
forward to reading.”

Fellow reader David Stillman can
also see a development in his compo-
sition of verse, reﬂecting that he “be-
gan writing poetry seriously, that is,

to read with the other students, and
also with the writers of the commu-
nity.”

The third W&L senior to read his
writing before the event’s audience,
David Olimpio, will be sharing some
of his work in an altogether different
medium, that of the novel, as will the
final two readers of the program.

Both members of the greater Lex-
ington community, Lisa Solod of Lex-
ington, and Pam Patton (a member of
the Development Ofﬁce’s staff) of
Buena Vista round out the list of read-
ers to step before the microphone in
Northen AuditoriumTuesday evening.

While the talent of the writers alone
justiﬁes the reading as a valuable ex-
perience, the force behind the reading,
an initiative to bring food to the needy

will present him of having “a chance

    

tory signiﬁcant funds to support groups

Welcome Parents

ﬁghting hunger across the country,
while bringing the distressing prob-
lem of hunger in America to the atten-
tion of communities from one coast to
the other.

Share Our Strength allots grants
nationwide to over 800 North Ameri-
can organizations that focus on food
distribution combating the conse-
quences of hunger, as well as those
organizations building community
self-sufﬁciency.

100% of Tuesday’s event dona-
tions will go directly to local anti-
hunger efforts, and in particular to the
Blue Ridge Food Bank, which distrib-
utes 5,000,000 pounds of food annu-
ally to food pantries in 25 counties in
and near the Shenandoah Valley.

As every one dollar donated to this

’ much pleasure to _all_who attend. ‘T’;

Alain - lﬁennia Still The Leading

tore In Lexington

Inci-um‘

2-IQ:-vcéa 6

- W».
*rn¢-na'.~t.--.u “*3

uni!-vquuw.
I'Tl!l"1$I¥"' 
3 - IV» 4. -

 

     

f,‘7.‘.:.. ._

 

 

__..i__-___ -_

I

I
Dennis !

   

A11 Suits and Sports Coats 20% Off
SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts Duckhead Khakrs
W001-RICH W&L Belts, Dog Collars, Visors,

Emb-3333' Boxers Ties, and Straw Hats

I-0118 51¢’-‘Ve 3P0TtS Shilts 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos
Leather Watchbands Formal shins

Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s, Walkover Fancy Cummerbund and Tie sets
R3Y‘B9-11$ Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts
C°1’d“f°Y Pants Confederate Cummerbund and Tie
Cashmere Blend Topcoats sets and Belts

Red Wing Boots W&LMinkTies

Wool .-‘Slacks .

        
      
       
    
    
    
    
        
 
 

  

  

OPEN THIS SUNDAY 10 a.m.

Alain - iﬁennia

Phone (703) 463-5383
Since 1963
STUDENT

CHARGE ACCOUNTS

A

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

@112 ‘iﬁittg-tum Iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

a Welcome parents

I.

October brings many of nature’s most beautiful and curi-
ous creations to Washington and Lee: the majestic prolifera-
tion of colors on leaves, sunny autumnal afternoons that are
simultaneously warm and chilly, and picture-perfect golden
sunsets.

It also brings parents.

Indeed, this upcoming weekend will see moms and dads
descend on Lexington to see their children who have been
notably absent from home since late August.

To varying degrees, students look forward to the arrival of
their folks. All around campus, they feverishly clean rooms
and make dinner reservations.

We can boast of our new lives highlighted by indepen-
dence and personal responsibility.

Our univ’ersity deserves thanks for recognizing the impor-
tance of such a weekend. They enable us an opportunity to
prove that we are well. College life hasn’t destroyed the
values and judgment which our parents have spent eighteen
years instilling in us. Fraternities have not transformed us up
into bacchanalian fools. Academic courses have not reduced
us to quivering stress-packed basketcases.

Instead, college has heightened our sense of self. We
benefit from the instruction of highly capable professors. We
enjoy a lively social life which promotes friendship and
camaraderie.

W&L is indeed our home away from home.

Hopefully, this weekend our parents can understand why.

Thank you, Mr. Fishback

Washington and Lee is blessed with generous alumni
who give back to the university for all they’ve gained from
it.

Thanks to a gift from William Fishback, Jr., ’56, students
will benefit each year from the advice and insight of a
distinguished writer picked by a panel of both students and
faculty.

In picking the speakers, the panel looks for writers eager to
interact with students in the classroom, not merely speak
from the podium in Lee Chapel.

This week, the Fishback Fund’s inaugural speaker, Charlie
McDowell of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, ate lunch with
students before visiting a journalism class, in addition to
giving a public lecture.

The Fishback Fund is a gift for students of all majors, as the
committee invites those who write about public affairs,
nature and the environment, and history and the theater.
Students of all disciplines should take advantage of these
opportunities to listen and talk to these distinguished writ-

ers.

Quote of the Week

“Did you read the papers this week?”
‘fWhat for?”

. —Two broadcast journalism majors
 overheard in the J -School library

OPINION

PAGE 5

t-—---—---J
T;>"7TL<‘ ;/. W‘/‘C‘< 

\‘\l\'\“

.. FT:"f

4-3}

“IT W! MJOM‘ W

V

jntgm mu 1’

-=3

iewcdtdnl-luqame

‘J~_Pax\‘“‘jlcA_t\

‘M

W‘ 5lwv\3 play it-

Filthy politics with the ‘filthy rich’

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

Last week, the Republican House
passed its plan to save Medicare, over
the political opposition of Democrats,
who united behind a dishonest and
disgraceful strategy of "portraying the
plan and the concurrent tax relief as
soaking poor seniors to subsidize “the
rich,” in an effort to obfuscate the facts
and the real problems at hand.

Never mind the fact that the
Republican measure offers seniors
true choice and ﬂexibility and the po-
tential for signiﬁcantly expanded ben-
eﬁts in their Medicare coverage for the
ﬁrst time ever, while preserving the
right of every senior to remain in the
current system.

One might think that such a laud-
able proposal would draw support from
Democrats, or at least substantive de-
bate over the changes in Medicare.
Nope. Watching the Democrats during
the four hours of debate on the Medi-
care proposal was like listening to the
proverbial Johnny One-Note banging
away at his piano keyboard.

While it is sloganeering to repeat
the line: “The party which once told us
we had nothing to fear but fear itself
now has nothing to offer but fear it-
self,” it is also factually accurate. Demo-
crats got up, one after another, to pro-
claim that Republicans were “slash-
ing” seniors’ health care to pay off
their wealthy backers.

Comparing the day to Pearl
Harbor, Democrats shamelessly re-
peated the mantra “tax cuts for the
rich” more than 100 times in just
over three hours in an unabashed at-

tempt to provoke class envy at the
expense of honesty.

The fact is that these “Contract with
America” tax cuts are merely the ﬁrst
step in setting right the past wrongs of
the 40-year reign of tax-and-spend
House Democrats. The fact is that these
tax cuts disproportionately beneﬁt the
middle class and working poor. The
fact is that Democrats are shamelessly
exploiting these issues for political gain,
while offering only to take more of the
American people’s money to finance
the failed liberal welfare state.

President Bill Clinton himself
remarked recently that he now thinks
he raised taxes “too much” in 1993,
when he and the Democratic Con-
gress jammed through the largest tax
increase in American history, includ-
ing unprecedented and unconstitutional
retroactive tax increases. Coinciden-
tally, he happened to reveal this gem at
a Democratic political fundraiser for
the wealthy.

Washington Post columnist and
budget expert Bob Samuelson, who is
opposed to the Republican cuts, re-
marked in a recent column that “their
[Democrats’] endless carping about the
‘tax cut for the rich’ merely disguises
their own unwillingness to confront
the budget deﬁcits. Republicans have
made some unpopular choices about
government; Democrats have not.”

But let’s ignore the political dimen-
sion for a moment and focus on some
hard evidence about where the Repub-
lican tax cuts are going. The single
biggest element of the tax-cut package
is the $500 per child family tax credit,
a step toward restoring the value of the
dependent deduction that has fallen
woefully behind inﬂation under the
Democratic congresses of yesteryear.

The nonpartisan Tax Foundation
recently certiﬁed that the family tax
credit will provide an average of $910

of tax relief per family in 1997. And
these are not wealthy families. Fami-
lies with incomes below $50,000 re-
ceive roughly two-thirds of the Repub-
lican tax credits.

And syndicated columnist Donald
Iambro notes that economists on the
Joint Economic Committee have stated
that 75 percent of the family tax credit
will go to families whose incomes are
below $75,000. Logicallv, as family
incomes increase, the value of the tax
credit in proportion to the family’s
total taxes paid
will decrease,
meaning that the
family tax credit
is even more dis-
proportionately

...The fact is that

recipient over the next seven years.)

Samuelson notes again, “Under the
congressional budget resolution, the
Republicans can’t enact a tax out until
the CBO [Congressional Budget Of-
ﬁce] certiﬁes that their plan would
balance the budget by 2002.”

Only after that time are the beneﬁts
to the economy from reduced deﬁcits
factored in, and these resulting in-
creases in economic growth and de-
creases in interest rates produce $170
billion in increased revenue to the fed-
eral government.
It is then that this
extra certified
savings that fi-
nances over 70
percent of the

important to low-
income families.
Likewise, the

‘Republican pro-

posal to cut the
capital gains tax is
hardly the kick-
back to wealthy
donors that
Democrats would
like to portray to

Democrats are shame-
lessly exploiting these
issues for political
gain, while offering
only to take more
of the American
people’s money to fi-
nance the failed lib-

$245 billion Re-
publican tax cut.

The irrespon-
sibility and
shameless fear-
mongering and
d e in a g o g u e r y
that congres-
sional Democrats
have been re-
duced to is clearly

an uninformed
public. IRS data
indicates that 56
percent of the tax
returns reporting capital gains were
from households with incomes below
$50,000. And while greater incomes
obviously receive more total dollars
from any given tax cut, the cut is
again more valuable as a share of
total income to lower- and middle-
class households.

What’s more, these tax cuts are not
the dividend from huge “cuts” in pro-
grams such as Medicare. (“Cuts,” by
the way, that actually provide for an-
nual growth in Medicare of six and a
half percent, or a $1900 increase per

eral welfare state.

a dark point in the
nation’s recent
history. The av-
erage child today
will pay more than $187,000 over his
or her lifetime to ﬁnance trze national
debt. In the face of a crisis this large,
Democrats have resorted to morally
bankrupt political posturing.

As Republicans in Congress con-
tinue to fulﬁll their promises, stimu-
late economic growth, preserve im-
portant programs for America’s fu-
ture, and return control over the Ameri-
can people’s money to the American
people, it is clear which party holds the
promise of policies to secure a new
dawn in America’s future.

@112 Etttg-tum ilﬂlti

Executive Editms Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Fditnr Michael Hewlett
N°‘”5 Edi‘°" Christine Gamavish
Assistant News Editor Bethany Bauman
Ed“°Im P38‘ F‘“"" Alex Christensen
SP‘-‘"5 Edll°_T Sm" Bookwalter
Features Editor . Cindie Young
Photography Editor Remy Green

Ed“°’m C3“°°"i5l5 Phil Flickinger, Torn Fallaoe

Business Manager Robe“ Nelson
Assistant Business Manager nous Gem,“
Advertising Manager Jennifer G,-am
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Ajyo,-d
Circulation Manager so.-prim William

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, roorri 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The R ing-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Do you know what day it is today?

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

That’s right, it’s the anniversary (or as close as we
get in the weekly newspaper bidness) of the first
publication of a certain new kind of column by a
certain young W&L freshman with dreams of glory.
That column is The Far Middle. That boy is me (now
ensconced in productive sophomoredom). Those
dreams are all coming true.

(You can’t hear it, but behind me, The Far Middle
Kickline Girls are dancing and singing “The Alex
Christensen Theme Song,” which, in case you have
forgotten, goes: [clap, clap, clap, clap, clap, clap,
clap, clap] “Hooray for Alex, the hero of our nation!”
Feel free to sing along, won’t you?)

“Where exactly is ‘The Far Middle’?” you may
well ask.

Why, you’re probably already there right now.
“The Far Middle” is a term invented by cartoonist
Jeff MacNelly of the Chicago Tribune in his comic
strip, “Pluggers,” to describe the giant gulf that exists
between the failed liberal agenda represented by the
Democrats and the frankly frightening stridency of
the Far Right which seems to have taken over the
Republican Party.

(He didn’t exactly define it like that—in fact,
what he did was draw a cartoon.)

It is somewhere in this gulf where you will ﬁnd the
majority of Americans, possessed of decent values, a
work ethic they actually practice every day, and
enough common sense to realize that both sides have
gone too far.

So this column was founded upon representing
these voices. It started out with an article about
Pat Buchanan entitled “Fear and loathing in south-
west Virginia,” which began, “This is a new column.
It will not be based on the conservative world view
and it will not be based on the liberal world view. It
will be based on what I think. My name is Alex
Christensen. I carry a badge. People often ask me
whether I am a Democrat or a Republican. This

makes sense, since -I am a dues-paying member of
both the College Republicans and the College Demo-
crats. Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton spring to mind
when you ask me who were the best presidents of the
last thirty-ﬁve years.”

Since then, a lot of things have changed.
For one thing, lam no longer a member of the
College Democrats.

To put it bluntly, the Democratic Party died
when it failed to grasp the meaning of the 1994
Republican Revolution which swept Newt Gingrich
and a GOP majority into power in Congress. Liber-
alism had died long before that, but somehow the
Democrats were able to throw up a president with
their dying breath.

This is not to heap too much lavish praise at
the feet of the Republicans. Too many of them
have refused to repudiate the narrow-mindedness
and the reactionary (or just plain wacky)
viewpoints within their party, represented by such
modern—day Savonarolas as Ollie North, Pat
Buchanan, Alan Keyes, Bob Doman, Pat Robertson
(W&L ’50), George Allen, Jesse Helms and Phil
Gramm, that have kept it from being a majority party
for a long time.

While it is true that the GOP will continue to
have problems with building solid majorities until
it ﬁgures out how to dredge its metaphorical pond
of this very real scum, it is also true that the
significant battles of governance will take place on a
GOP battlefield.

So that’s different. My column has had a good
record, so far.

On the plus side, I correctly predicted, four days
before the election, when Col. Oliver “Slappy” North
was ahead in practically every major poll, that he
would be headed home instead of headed to the
Senate. This may be attributed to my analytical skills
or the fact that the entire state of Virginia realized that
it simply could not afford to pay one man a senator’s
salary and house him in a state mental institution at
the same time.

I also charted the possible courses the Republican
Revolution could take, fairly accurately in retro-

spect, gave some good advice to Democrats and
Republicans alike, stood up against state-enforced
prayer in school, subsidizing religion, irrationally
applied death penalties, W&L’s unique Affirmative
Action program for white males, the ridiculous treat-
ment of Surgeon General nominee Henry Foster by
hypocritical Republicans, inadequate campaign fund-
ing laws, and some of the more mind-boggling evils
of racism.

On the minus side, I probably have written a bit
too close to my deadline, which has probably hurt
more than it has helped, and I may have been the
tiniest bit of what some people would call mean, but
it was all in good fun.

(Now you can check out the entire record from
The Far Middle Home Page, at “http://www.wlu.edu/
~aechrist/aechrist.html”.)

I think I’ve been fairly even-handed about it all,
and hopefully entertaining as well, and now, if you’ll
excuse me, as an American, as a Republican, as a
Californian, I need to publicly dance on the political
grave of Pete Wilson.

Nyah! Nyah! Nyah! Nyah! Take that, Pedro! You
can’t seduce this America with your off—brand of
shady jingoism, you washed—up political hack!
Gramm and Buchanan and Doman and Keyes’ll
ﬁgure it out soon enough, but until then, YOU ARE
THE BIG LOSER.

Here’s my poem about the dubious legacy of
Pete Wilson:

Elmilenio tercero

Los nifios de California

del milenio tercero

no leeran la historia de Pete Wilson
en inglés ni espafiol.

Kinda brings a little tear to the eye, (gno?

Anyway, it’s been quite a ride so far, quite a
lot of fun, and I’d have to say that the best part
is that I get to work for the W&L weekly that doesn’t
hate women.

G’night folks! I’m here every other Friday!

 

 

OPINION

Spirits in an Enchanted World

D REAM LAND
Richard Weaver

Halloween in Rockbridge County
is not any normal event. The assorted
ghosts, goblins and townies all come
out to play. I had my ﬁrst bit of Hal-
loween fun several weeks ago when I
attended a seance. I wanted to meet
these mysterious beings.

If I were a spirit, one of the places
I would probably pick to materialize
in would be the Enchanted Castle in
Natural Bridge. If you’ve ever trav-
eled Route 11 on your way to the
Natural Bridge Wax Museum, you
may have seen a rundown little theme
park with huge plaster animals and
overgrown weeds. In the brochure it
says, “Witness the Pig Bungee Jump
from high atopa40 foot tower.” What-
ever that means. The gates to the En-
chanted Castle are usually open.

After seeing an announcement in
theLexington News Gazette I decided
to make the seance my next stop on the
Dream Land World Tour. It was held
on a recent Friday the 13th. Since this
paper comes out on Parents Weekend
I should probably mention to my Mom
and Dad that this is not what I usually

do on Friday nights.

I arrived at the appointed hour and
was met at the entrance by Mark, the
owner/creator of the Enchanted Castle.

“You must be Richard,” Mark said.

“Yes,” I re-
plied. I stood in
the front foyer
with Rocky, a
man whose eyes
and nose were the
only visible parts

We sat down around

like the back wall in Neweomb Hall.
Inside was a bottle of cider and 13
cups. Mark gave us each one and
encouraged us to drink the cider. He
watched intently. This really has
nothing to do
with anything.
After our
drink, Mark sat
down to conjure
up the spirit of
Frank, a slave

of his face. The
rest was hidden
by a thick black
frizz which I
guessed he had
been growing

the table and Mark
pushed on one of the
wall paintings,
which mechanically
opened up a panel to

who died after
saving someone
from drowning in
the James River.
With skill that I
haven’t seen

since he was 15.1 since Binn the
think he was from repeal a s.ecret closet’ Clown tirade
Buena Vista. -Kind Ofllke the  bouquets of

Mark led us wall i n N e wco m b ﬂowers grow out
into a room  of his hand at a
with a large ' birthday party I
round black- attended in ﬁrst

draped table.

“My name is
Mark and I’ll be your channeler to-
night,” he said.

We sat down around the table and
Mark pushed on one of the wall paint-
ings, which mechanically opened up a
panel to reveal a secret closet. Kind of

grade, Mark
made water from
Frank’s lungs appear in a bowl.
Really. This seemed to rattle Rocky
and his family.

Mark said, in a scared tone of voice,
that he hadn’t considered this might
happen, but since it did, he got atray of

13 different cups out of the secret
closet and gave us each one. He went
around the room and poured a little bit
of the water from Frank’s lungs. He
told us not to drink it.

All 13 of us lifted up our cups aswe
chanted to Frank. When we were all
done Mark came around for us to pour
the water from our cups back. But
there was no more water! Each cup
was empty except for some clear goo.
Mark had warned us that if anytime
during the seance a goo appeared, it
was probably ectoplasm, and we might
get burned if we touched it. The goo in
my cup felt like cold toothpaste. I
think Frank may have used mint Crest.

For his next trick Mark blew out
the candles on the table and started
chanting to Frank again. Oddly
enough, things only happened at the
seance when the lights were turned
off. Rocky, and his family, let out little
squeals of fear when we heard a book
ﬂy off the shelf. We never did hear
Frank talk: only Mark could hear him.

I would sum up my feelings during
the seance by saying I tried real hard
not to laugh. Even when Mark had to
stop what he was doing to ﬂip sides on
his tape of scary background music.
Whenever I become a spirit I’ll be nice
and ﬂip it for him.

1935 idea may not survive century

MY VIEW
Jennifer Galardi, ’96

EDITOR ’S NOTE: This is the ﬁrst of three
articles concerning the state of Social Security.

Unless you have been in a coma for the past couple
of weeks, or you are not very hip on watching C-
SPAN 24 hours a day (which is perfectly understand-
able), you cannot avoid the current discussion con-
cerning the two largest entitlement programs in this
country: Medicare and Social Security. The threat of
“Mediscare” wasplastered onthe coverofNewsweek
while the Senate Finance Committee battles with
Medicare refonn. Reports are ﬁnally conveying to the
American public what was researched and discov-
ered years ago: Medicare and Social Security will
soon become insolvent unless policy changes occur
now. Although both programs are facing the threat of
bankruptcy, politicians have begun debating only
Medicare reform while no one is willing to touch
Social Security with a ten foot pole. Therefore, I will
focus on Social Security, because you can pick up any
national paper or, yes, tune into C-SPAN to learn the
truth about Medicare.

First, it is important to distinguish between the
national deﬁcit and the national debt. The national
budget deficit equals federal spending minus federal
revenue for one ﬁscal year while the national debt is
the total accumulation of all the budget deﬁcits in our
history minus all the budget surpluses. The budget
deﬁcit for ﬁscal year 1994 was $203 billion and is
estimated by the Congressional Budget Ofﬁce to
reach $175 billion for ﬁscal year 1995. The national
debt is approximately ﬁve trillion dollars and increas-
ing by $602 million every day. This means that each
citizen’s share of the national debt is approximately
$19,0()0. Considering these staggering numbers, it is
not hard to understand why current spending trends
cannot be sustained if we do not wish to unfairly
burden America’s children and future generations.

Like consumers, the federal government borrows
money to fund these huge deﬁcits. Unlike consumers,
they borrow it from the nation’s pool of savings. As
a result of falling private savings and rising govem-
ment deﬁcits, there is less private savings available
for the investment necessary for this country’s long-
term economic growth. These savings, known as net

national savings, have dropped from more than
eight percent of the economy to less than two
percent today, which restricts American industries’
productive and competitive capabilities. When the
US. is not competitive, the country is not earning as
much as a whole, wages go down, and the standard of
living stagnates.

This long—term economic perspective is vital for
understanding the importance of controlling entitle-
ment spending and reforming Social Security now.
Consider these facts. Entitlement spending and inter-
est on the national debt now consume over half of all
federal spending. By 2003, that percentage increases
to 72 percent. Of the total $1.53 trillion in federal
expenditures in 1995, Social Security alone will ac-
count for nearly 22 percent, or $334 billion. By the
year 2005, costs of the program in constant dollars are
expected to increase to $566 billion. This leaves very
little revenue for discretionary programs such as
education and others which can raise productivity
and contribute to economic growth.

Contrary to popular belief, the Social Security
program is a direct transfer, or pay-as—you-go pay-
ment system. There is not a little piggy bank in
Washington with your name on it collecting the FICA
tax taken out of every paycheck you receive which
you will receive upon retirement. Those currently
earning money are paying for those currently receiv-
ing Social Security beneﬁts. To pay for the exploding
costs of these beneﬁt programs, FICA taxes have
increased dramatically in recent decades. These taxes
are paid disproportionately by the young. Retirees do
not pay FICA taxes at all. Among workers under age
30, nine in ten pay more in total FICA taxes than they
do in income taxes.

One reason discussion on Social Security reform
has been avoided by the plague is due to the belief that
there is a huge surplus in its trust fund (OASDI).
Although this is true, the current surplus will rapidly
decline once the Baby Boom generation begins to
retire around 2010. Such fundamental demographic
changes cannot be ignored. Because of longer life
expectancies and the aging of the Baby Boom genera-
tion, we must plan now for the aging of America’s
population. The number of Americans over 70 will
double in the next 35 years, from 24 million today to
48 million in the year 2030 and there will be fewer
than three working-age persons for each person over
65. This increase in the number of elderly will send
spending on Social Security to astronomical levels.

Even with the current surplus, the best estimate is
that the Trust will be totally bankrupt by 2030. How-
ever, the fund actually begins running a deﬁcit (cash
outﬂow to beneficiaries will exceed cash inﬂows
from taxes) in 2013, causing the trust fund to be drawn
upon. This deficit will also cause net borrowing from
the public and the federal deﬁcit to increase.
By 2015, Social Security’s annual operating deﬁcit
will hit $57 billion. By 2020, the revenue shortfall
will have widened to $232 billion; by 2040 it will be
$1.3 trillion.

In a recent debate during the Senate Finance
Committee ’s hearing on Medicare, Sen. Alan Simpson
(R-Wyo.) called today’s senior citizens “the most
fortunate people on earth.” Most people understand
the importance of the Social Security system. It
provides cash and health insurance to the elderly and
disabled, removes millions from poverty and gives
the elderly the means to live their last years in dignity.
But in the past few decades, the beneﬁts have gotten
out of control. Contrary to popular belief, beneﬁts for
seniors have actually increased in the past three
decades, from 17 percent of non-interest outlays in
1965 to 40 percent in 1995. Furthermore, this share
continues to grow under both the congressional bud-
get proposal as well as the President’s new budget.
Sen. Simpson used himself as an example. In his
employment days, Sen. Simpson never put more than
$864 a year into the Social Security fund. If he were
to retire now, at age 64, he would receive $1140 a
month. Most retirees get all the money they contrib-
uted to the system back within the ﬁrst six and a half
years of beneﬁts they receive from Social Security.
Social Security was created in 1935 during the De-
pression to provide the elderly with decent pensions
as a kind of safety net. However, the program was
never intended to be what it is today in allowing some
beneﬁciaries to live in luxury.

Current entitlement spending trends cannot be
sustained if we do not wish to unfairly burden
America’s children and future generations. We must
recognize the impending consequences of current
policy and inaction. Unless policy changes happen
now, our generation may never have the security
that our grandparents currently enjoy. It is no
wonder that more people believe in UFO’s than have
faith that Social Security will be there for them when
they retire. The big question now is how to restore
long—term solvency to Social Security and who will
be responsible.

LETTERS

Panhellenic story got the facts wrong

To the editor:

for the rest of the article. In the future, resist the temptation to fabricate

Panhellenic matters.

The Homecoming issue brandished a front-page article claiming that the

Panhellenic Rush mles had been revised. This is completely untrue. It is obvious
that your freshman male simply got a hold of the Rush rules and lent his own
.interpretation to the document. There are no quotations or interviews from
Panhellenic members to substantiate anything in the article. His deﬁnition of “hot
boxing” comes from who knows where. There aren’t “two new rules” set this

year, only a clarification of the previous rules.

While I thank you for announcing the Rush registration date, I can’t thank you

Suzanne M. Sharp
Panhellenic President

EDITOR ’S N 0 TE : The Ring-tum Phi would like to note that the information
contained in the aforementioned article was obtained in part from a Panhellenic

handout entitled, “Revised Rush Rules. ” In addition, the practice of having men

cover Panhellenic stories is intended to avoid possible conﬂicts of interest.

3/.9

in?-lam phi:
9 gal /old 0

/Lug./» ow chi/all/‘en

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

  

Fencing Club

The Fencing Club will be hold-
ing an organizational meeting on
Thursday, Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. in
Room 113 of the University Center.
All men and women interested in
fencing at Washington and Lee are
encouraged to attend. Beginners
welcome. For more information,
please call Eric Kessel at 462-4243.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will make its contribution to
the Halloween season with the pre-
sentation of Ed Wood (USA, 1994),
directed by Tim Burton. Screenings
will be at 8:05 p.m. Friday and Sat-
urday, Oct. 27 and 28 in the Trouba-
dour Theater. There is no charge for
admission. All members of the W&L
community and the community at
large are invited.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by poet
Brendan Galvin, author of GreatBlue
and Saints in Their Ox-hide Boats,
Thursday, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m., and
novelist and poet Lynne Sharon
Schwartz, author of Rough Strife
and The Fatigue/lrtist, Wednesday,
Dec. 6 at 4:30 p.m. All readings will
take place in Northen Auditorium.

Mock Convention

Mock Convention Media Com-
mittee applications are currently
available outside of Carol Calkins'
ofﬁce. They will be due Nov. 6.

Politics Panel

The Politics Department is spon-
soring a panel discussion entitled
“The Black Vote in the Republican
Party at Century’s End” Thursday,
Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Au-
ditorium. A reception will follow at
the Alumni House.

Practice Interviews

Seniors may sign up for video-
taped practice interviews in the Ca-
reer Development and Placement Of-
ﬁce. There are two more days of
practice interviewing this term:
Wednesday, Oct. 25 and Thursday,
Nov. 9.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

SLAC Job Fairs

Liberal Arts and Science ma-
jors interested in the SLAC job
fairs should submit their resumés
by Oct. 27.

Study in Hong Kong

There’s still time to apply for
a year in Hong Kong at Chung Chi
University! Applications are due
next Monday, following Parents’
Weekend. Please remember that

‘ you pay W&L fees here, with no

extra charge, and need only ﬁgure
in transportation cost. Living ex-
penses are apt to be considerably
lower than in’ Lexington. With
Hong Kong reverting to Chinese
rule in 1997, now is the time to go
and see firsthand what’s happening.
Courses are in English, so language
is noprob1em—youcanbeginstudy-
ing Chinese there, if you like. Please
see Prof. Ann Rogers in the Red
House for further information and
an application form.

Symphony Trip

Tickets for the trip to the
National Symphony Saturday, Nov.
4, can be purchased for $20
through Michelle Richardson, Stu-
dent Activities Coordinator. The
group will leave at 9:15 a.m., stop
brieﬂy for breakfast, and disembark
near the mall in Washington. There
will be several hours to shop or
sightsee, etc. At 7:30 p.m., the group
will leave for the Kennedy Center
for the 8:30 p.m. perfonnance. Im-
mediately following the perfor-
mance, the group will leave for Lex-
ington and will arrive home around
1:30 a.m. The Symphony will per-
form works by Hartke, Bruch,
Mumford and Mahler.

Teacher Education

Dr. Patty Westhafer from Mary
Baldwin College will be on campus
Wednesday, Nov. 1, to consult with
students regarding teacher educa-
tion and licensure. If your future
plans include teaching, please come
by Fairfax Lounge between the hours
of 12:30 p.m. and 2 p. m. to discuss
particular needs with Dr. Westhafer.
If you have questions consult Dean
West-Settle at x8746.

Correction

The Phi apologizes for the error.

In the Oct. 13 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, a column by Nicholas Waddy
ran a headline he does not feel that this reﬂected the message of his column.

E—mail your letter
to the editor:
phi@wlu.edu

,/

  

Your Student
Go Hungry

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner

For only $90.00

19 W. Washington St., Lexington

9
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

Nutritious Muﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

Harbs’

 

 

  

Tine Ri.::§_-turn Phi, October 27, 1995  % PAGE 7

 
 

     
    

 
  

   

  

 
 
   
    

i
».._iy’t\ . .   IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
*4 ,o_M.7:%.§__,W__ﬁ___w_.”________ . . _
 7-“ ’.é‘*':s‘a.~“ _f’itte$t -irt Valley   . : \  ’/  g '
~ it 4 ,. ..,, - .- _. _ , I " -
, 1.. .- in 4 1 2:; lTlf1 Cfrajctsrnanshtp umownna s1’oREs”’ I - -' I
3   ' . ' . I
'1. E   . :.‘;‘u.z-vv.-are 82: I;'n;)r(:e];3i‘-3 . : I :
;‘    ‘ f’*‘;“’ "€‘_j‘f“‘~"§"‘ t Hardware, Paint, and Related Items -_- -_-
 v...,,:.~ »x ti")1S '1 CILII '5“, “(£1 ‘:55, 
 «vim» l’ L ‘s.r‘«<:‘I svztsrcz-¢L3l'\G:C1 greetirag cards : :
:‘\ -::vI2s>.= ~¢»...~ru.'x (;fZC;l1c3.- ‘ye CZ.r~ ” ,, , _ 0
K  t*i‘.'s1i AT, «$6:-’;§(‘u‘\.c‘1 1. /-\t,::;i:§I:'$3 aft“    a.m. - 6 pm. Sun.  : A  :
z;  . e son t., exington - I :
  =5‘-‘ _‘iVe-‘$4’ VV¢?=“-’3'- irtgtors - : 8 am - 3 pm - Monday I
it  .:«::c 1 rag; {(2 r1 , \/.1 rgir1 in . I
Q  ,2:  46:-izfssgs .8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
‘ i.;_.:;._;._= ..  .;  ’ V 4 ../ a u ra 423/ .2 0-5 ‘.   Art : 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday I
F We have : 9 am - 3 pm - Sunday :
I I
Lee ' '
‘ . . : Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad :-
‘ ; signatures; one diploma . .
E \X/&L Copperplate hand—colored ' All you can eat $499 '
l 3 I
I Kataurant and W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art : _ '
I 9-[  sculpture by Ron Tumson : Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID :
i ‘ ) I I
,. 0 zeszlounge . .dy S f M.
3 ‘ . Fri a - ea oo ite - :
5 "$1  T  ' Crab Le s Shrim Trout '
K‘ “W ‘Y.’ _ I g 9 P, I
i  Route 7, BOX 99A ﬂ ' ' : Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib, :
4  1»/<3XiY1gt0T1, Virginia  4 East Washington Street : 2 Vegs’ Salad $895 :
% Near the Horse Center F [m H Ige;<(i)n%tg>z;i,6:'t{)\4 24450 : :
 Phone 464—9499 ( ) ‘ E
 Open Monday ~ Saturday I I
‘ * Wnge ope“ 400 pm" ‘O '9 S0:0d)aaJ1nl I)3:£(i)(I)I1p.l:4nb0 m : - Le ' VA A 21450 :
5 UII Z . - 1 . .
9 xs""~.i"‘»7.Z1'L1l'€1T1t  3-m- to   j y P _ : I I I II I  I II I §InJqht(2II’I I I I I I I I I I I I I

 

i   You rant tsp. at 

  

   
   

  
    
   

    
   

   

 

11
A   g,o;eHal.bSs:ii 2
   A Bistro 
 h : 19 West Washington Street :
t      ’ S ' ' 2 I
 ‘ 5’ 0”’ C’,""””g ; Halloween Costume ;
 i"'t.§1d A ccessorzes ; ;
,  5 Contest 5
  Tuesday, October 51 
.   Mttin St. (703)463-5988  6 p.m. [O 7 p.m. 
m\m‘gt0IIl7 VA 24450 S E Natural cotton N 1 :11 If
 WA ; Dress to scare the , "er
“ 5 judges 5   
 .   . 5 1st Place: $25 Gift Certificate 5  c
a» g  t §t!,Sday Friday , _ _ _ , 
i  Vmher & Convembles , 2nd Place: $15 Gift Certificate ; ”mWWm__et‘Wm
ﬁg  Cat Muppetu Halloween Band E 3rd Place: $   Certificate 5 5 Open daily 104'"-6I»m'Swtdays 1 1am~312m
3  EOOOOOO000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOE

 1   "'**FREE TRIPS & CASH!!"*
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH

ii .

I 3
   I I g with America’s # 1 Spring Break Company! Sell only 15 trips and travel tree!
 Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-

DENT TRAVEL  95-BREAK!

Too much classwork to do?
'«   tj‘ilOi1§Lj;ll time to wash your face. certainly not enough for washing

laundry! 

 of wearing the same clothes because nothing else is clean’?

‘ E» Barring your laundry to me, Teresa, at

  

‘W _-,

 

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SEIJ.
TRIPS, EARN CASH &_ GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services IS
now hiring campus rep_reSentat1V9S-
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancufﬁ,
Da tona and Panama City Bede .
Ca ‘ 1' 

   
       

 Lexington Laundry Service 81   
 Alterations
 22 N. Main St. (next to 11 Palazzo)

‘  464-4001
 ii :i_;.iiEiI’g€ $.60 per pound forlaundry and I do alterations

A  too!
 i give 10% discount with student ID. Q Florist to The Homestead g  
  H g Ten East Nelson Street Lexington 463-9841 =:..'0‘¢D‘ii’I- 330 E

 

I

S The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995
some /&%’3R[~;[), me, Hi Born Computer Systems -
203 North Main Street

Q . . .2, /
W W -   [0 Lexington, Virginia 24450-2650 .

9m@mm  ' ' ' mm!
Wm”9“’“’ “"6" 703-463-6001

Wkm; .9?u'aé% ﬂoioém 2 7   Price List
3:00 [0 5:00/"m' 5 Mega of Ram expan%:::?eBE§ 1133:5093 256K Cache v.

14.4 Fax /Modern 10! Key Keyboard Mouse

?/ﬂkme;  930/m mm] ﬁwal 1 Meg PC! Video PC! Disk Drive cos-mono:

850 Meg Hard Drive 3.44 M09 Floppy Drive 0.
16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450 D windows 95 1 Year On-site Warranty

486 DX 4/100 128
WIN A FREE ROOM 486 DX 4/120 1360

for PENTIUM 75 1520 .

PARENTS’ WEEKEND '96 PENTWM 90 1620
PENTIUM 100 I840 *

Win a room in the Morris House for PENTIUM 120 2090 !
October 25th and 26th 1996 p5N1'|uM 133 2290

Tickets on sale [won "or Choices ‘

Noon — 5:30 Friday and 9:00 - 1:00 Saturday 14” SVGA .28 NMI 295
in front of the Co—op 1 5:: A 8 Ni  ~

$10/ticket or $15/ticket and T-Shirt ‘7’’ 5VGA -23 N‘ 795 ~

 

8 Meg Ram Addition 335.00
. . . 1 gig IDE HD Upgrade 100.00

All moneg to benefit W&L Habitat for lilumanltg 350 M39 Tape Backup 195.00 A
CD-ROM Muiti-Medic: 4X V 340.00

I CD-ROM Mum-Media 2X 240.00 E

0 ea 7  
The College Town Shop  0     

111 W. N~'<nn St.

STORE WIDE SALE

20 %  IF AT°FIRS'l‘ YOU SUCEEED,  ~
TRY, TRYAGAIN.

A
In the latest DALBAR Consumer ticipnnts all they need to help fulfill their
* * Satisfaction Survey. a comprehensive ﬁnancial goals and long~term expectations,
study of 2,000 ﬁnancial service companies In the years 10 come, we'll work even
. E  banks, mutual funds, brokerages. and harder to enhance the level of personal ser— "
 lﬂ~.<\l'!'e¥'S — Tl‘A/\-CREF was voted the vice and innovative solutions we of};-r go
§ leading ]I’)f0VIdCl‘ of retirement plans. help them build a secure and rewarding
S We ll try to do better next time. tomorrow. ll/la)/be that's why so many of the
E ‘ Slot that Vvc mmd the rccogmtnon, Its best mmrls In the na.non.trust 05 not just p
‘ P & just t at .4 lot of people (!Xpl.fCl nothmg less with their money, but wtth that future,
3 it-*3" the lief? (“Om us- Over 3 8 million indi» Find out more about America's
 viduals In higher education and research, to retirement planning experts. Call us at
.  be exact. And frankly. so do we. 1 800 842-2776 weekdays 8 am to 11 pm ET,
_ »  Day Rlicr clay. for over 75 years, we’ve or visil our Web site on the Internet at E
’ ' "'1 l ~ '4 -1 ’ 3/ PM cvelythmg We Ve got Into giving our pan httpz//www.tina-cref.org.
rt -1 §
MMNS AND WOMJNS z n
_E  g the future 5»
g or osc who shape it.“
IS
§
0

AMEX p,/[ASTERCARD V 1 S A }{()USE CHARGE CRi<IFccnil”uca1és are d..».~;m.n~a by TIA/\—CRl£l-‘ n..d;va.lu;.1 ml Institutional Scwicu. Inc. ~

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995 ' SPORTS

Grand ﬂpening  A

meetmeat WWN rrrnneresorrﬁe ween

........ ..//’ 

,..J -_.. j____
l“‘ 1 7%?’ L1i«'1  on

ST IKC COFFEE

Fresh Roasted Daily

L1,?” <‘*'5”’~”~’,.r'“‘I ESPRESSO &
ax,  CAPPUCCINO

a downstairs Rathskeller 

16 Lee Ave. OPEN TIL
(across from Chi Psi)  :   L  A '
Welcome Students Friday & Saturday ’%$’,,‘,,‘,‘,,£§°s’.,‘.’;Z':,f‘  ‘s’.,‘;,“§“'

Take Home Some The junior goalie was rock-solid against The freshman Chase had an impressive

   S’ Roanoke and Haverford. Mozena did not allow week with three goals and one assist against

Roanoke any goals coming off the bench. She Bridgewater, as well. as scoring the Generals’
. dd h H rfd,1-0. l 1' 2-11 - .
 f discount to an   I then procee e tos ut out ave or one goa ma oss to Randolph Macon
  everyday! 9 w_ wushmgm, & . 454.5535  6K

0 Great

Sandwhiches
Suhs
Salads

mar ween

0 Complete dinner menu
0 We specialize in Black V _ _  , _ _
Angus steaks  V’  Jason Cullen Julie Ayers Natalia Garcia

1  - - V . 1 .  ' " Men’sC1-osscoumry Women’s Tennis Women’s Tennis
. Lunch and dinner Callen took care of business in Ayers and Garcia dominated at the Rolex National Small College

T  if A 5 Gettysburg as he raced to a fourth- Championships. After capturing the Division III doubles title, the
specials  place finish in the meet in 26:51. duo eliminated the Division II champion team in straight sets.
0pen at 11 a.m. daily

Dinner served 4:30 p.m. ‘til ???

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun

and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, T1-ansfers,
Take out  Parties, and. More! Organize a small group and earn a

464-3157 , y ,_  FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

The Robinson-Humphrey
Company,“ Inc.

V   E n Would Like to Invite All Graduating Students
lntemtecl in I mzestment Banking Opportunities
P S In Conmler I ntmiiezoing for our '

Corporate Finance Analyst

I/so/V9”
W/gﬂ J/:tt19‘f‘ Program

THE 5OU KCE Ir1terzIiewDate: November 14, I 995

FOR W&L GEAR Reswnze’ Deadline: October 3 I , I 995

11 Washington 51:.
Lexin ton

464'“ O00 C tmmct I/9e W/axbingttan (‘.3 Lee Career Development and
Placement O_/ﬁre for Additional Information.

<» :5 . N
.»

‘.~"'?3'R.°°.-°’I“‘v‘s‘>°°<"‘7“‘>°.’v?Z 

~ue\~\6V‘6"§ (We

'<.V.~:v«:g'~‘;r«5v:4.\zg;{ ;24v:§:;'4:¢z«'«<'.‘.é’4.-2-}€:‘c<<:~,«)'.'~'~:2 {

The performance experience of a lifetime is waiting for
you at Busch Gardens in Williamsb . Virginia. Join us

ora chance tobepanofaspectaculars owandagroat
entottaimnent tradition.

Nooth 1 tr l'kihis:' th‘    in ' - ..
perf0rn§;I§rO:r:°;1§fnnst<;g:rSm§:t;af'$:n:i:usmglahofsh   .g    The First National Bank of Maryland, (1 $1@B re

nu’ trtaimn t; dedi ted taffthat 2 4  1., % . . -. . . . . .
§,3,;’,f§§§i,0W§,§;§usm°§Ed;,wmd§5";f,oi;md   t     guonal financial ||’lSt|tUtlOl’l located In Baltimore,
dramawe     T   '

have "  . -_ x —

andaionm§cmrni;i:i:iii&i§£psi}§i5n{xi§iihc§n§e§xr?.§Ic.i?l- 2      “ Maryland, will be recruiting at Washington and
modat1ons.Alofth1splus access to one of the most * , _ ‘ _ .. .. _ , (

heautlﬁﬂthemeparksmtheworidl   ‘ "    J  lee University on Thursday, November 3%, 1995.
M°mmaI?0%é5g::§lr?)fe1}g°::h°mm   1  _    Our training program prepares you for a co-
- Singers 0 Dancers ° Musicians 1 1  it 
~ Actors - Variety Artists ,     .   
.Tec}mjcian5   program exposes you to credit analysis, cus-
(includin stage managers, audio engineers,

l’ ht’ fl] t d d bu
‘E ‘“gi?;ss§m°tZii”§e£l§§”é§’p’Zr?3ncZi“ ‘°°   Morgantown,

ir°i““2*f‘§ifii‘E;;‘iiP‘t’iiiig“£?‘g”K‘"r;"i’””fig°§%‘t W93‘ ""9'"'a  
yJZ§‘§‘éu1/imuieiﬁtonauniiniimuifmmaiii Friday, Novemberiﬂth ‘ brochure which is available In your Placement

on ' k’ k dsfro Fb 1:0Up.m.-4:00p.m. . . . .
m:o$liIli:‘;illac§3ﬁi}i11nV;(lioiriW§emii1ugh0gt1obEriu9§6?i Mguntaimair s office. If Interested In this excellent opportu-

For now infomtation, call: (800) 253-3302. Or write to: West Virginia University . - ‘ ‘ . .
Auditions, c/o Bustsli Gardens Entertainment, Onollusch Joseph muck mane mty, submit your resume for consideration to
Gardens Blvd.,Will1amsburg, VA 23187-8785. An equal ,

opportunity employer.

reer as a Commercial Lender. This challenging

tomer calling, problem solving, and diverse fi-
nancial training. Please review our training

your placement office counselor.

 

Last Week:

i.i.- W, 36-21, at Sewanee

' Vou.:YaAu. - Beat Salisbury St. and Mary Washington, lost to
Gallaudet and Kean in Gallaudet. Tournament; W, 3-0, at Guilford
MSOCCER - L, 2-0, vs. Centre; L, 5-1, at Emory & Henry
Wsoccan - L, 2-1, vs. Notre Dame (Md.); L, 2-1, vs. Centre;
W, 1-0, vs. Guilford in ODAC quarterﬁnals
MCaoas Courrnnr - Finished second at Gettysburg Invitational
wA1'ERP0lD- W, 19-6, vs. MIT; W, 22-12 vs. U.S. Merchant Marine;
L, 12-8, vs. Johns Hopkins in EWPA Div. III Champ.

PAGE 10

S

Cllria ‘filing-htm lﬂlri

PORTS

This Week:

I
VOLIZYBALL - Today vs. Eastern Mennonite, 6:30 PM
Foovrsau. - Saturday vs. Bridgewater, 1:30 PM
Wsoocut - Friday vs. Roanoke in ODAC semiﬁnals
WATIII Pow - Saturday and Sunday at EWPA Southern Playoffs
Gour - Today through Saturday at VMI Classic
I

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

OCTOBER 27, 1995

  

 pine grotznders »
B<>‘§£onW'as<>ne.;
.. ;it’s:, first

1995 Worid Se"; is
' iaeonctusion,‘ 
¥h?€*h§3ef5°$ ’

 

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staff Writer

Dashing to the top

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

 

. the team.

The W&L men’s cross country squad has been on a roll for the past two
weekends. The men finished second at the Gettysburg Invitational one
week after capturing the Virginia Division II-IH State Championships.

  
  

 

Football keeps on rolling
with impressive road wins

By Soorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Since the Washington and Lee football
team had not won at Hampden-Sydney or
Sewanee in this decade, one would as-
sume that the team would have struggled
the past two weekends.

Evidently, no one told the Generals.

W&L vaulted over the .500 mark for
the ﬁrst time this season by smacking
Hampden-Sydney, 21-7, on October 14,’
and dumping Sewanee, 36-21, this past
Saturday. These impressive victories
upped the Generals’ log to 3-2-1 overall,
and 1-2 in the ODAC.

The Generals had not won in Ashland
since 1985, but things were to change this
year. Hampden-Sydney played the Gen-
erals to a draw through the ﬁrst quarter,
but it was all W&L after that.

After a 14-yard touchdown re-

ings since 1955.

W&Land Sewanee took turns domi-
nating the first half. The Generals rolled
out to a 13-0 advantage by the end of
the ﬁrst quarter, as Fischer scored a
touchdown from three yards out, and
Drew Thomas booted ﬁeld goals of 34
and 33 yards, respectively.

As much as W&L controlled the
ﬁrst quarter, Sewanee dominated the
second. The Tigers got on the board in
a big way when James Spriggs hauled
in a reception from quarterback Louie
Caputo and raced 78 yards for a touch-
down. An eight-yard run by Kent
Underwood enabled the Tigers to rally
back to take a 14-13 lead at the break.

‘ The Generals, though, were
undeterred, as they swung the momen-
tum back into their favor in the third
quarter. Wideout Chastain scored an
unlikely touchdown when he picked
up a fumble and sprinted 32 yards into

sive 45 yards out. Besides his tre-
mendous placekicking day, Thomas
averaged a terrific 49.3 yards on his
three punts.

The defense would not allow
Sewanee to come any closer. Line-
backer Doug Kennedy drove a nail
into the Tigers’ cofﬁn when he picked
off Caputo for the second time in the
game. The interception set up a one-
yard Fischer touchdown plunge
which sealed the deal for the Gener-
als, 36-21.

Defensive line stalwarts Hull and
Peyton Williams turned in big per-
formances yet again for the Gener-
als. Hull’s two sacks shattered his
school co-record by giving him a
season-total of eleven sacks. Wil-
liams did his part by sacking Caputo
twice, as well as collecting seven
tackles and forcing a fumble.

“We wanted to dominate defen-
sively, and that happened
in the second half,” com-

ception by Chas Chastain pro-
vided the Generals with theirﬁrst
score, running back Seth
McKinley dashed 27 yards to
paydirt, giving W&La 14-7 half-
time advantage. McKinley had a
huge day for the Generals as he
ran fora career-high 150 yards on
25 attempts. The yardage en-
abled McKinley to pass the 1 ,000—
yard mark in his rushing career
with 1,004.

McKinley was certainly not
the only offensive star. Quarter-
back Brooks Fischer was dead on
target with 16 completions in 22
attempts for a total of 146 yards.
He also threw a 9-yard touch-
down pass to a diving James Ur-

 

File Photo

The Generals pushed their record to
3-2-1 after beating H-SC and Sewanee.

mented Miriello.
“It was a good team vic-
tory all-around,” he added.
This Saturday, the Gen-
erals return to Wilson Field,
the site of their ﬁnal three
games. First on the slate is
a Parents Weekend contest
against ODAC rival
Bridgewater, a team which
W&L routed, 28-3, last
year. The Generals lead
the overall series, 17-8.
The Eagles, who have
only two seniors on their
roster, enter the game
winless at 0-7.
Miriello,though,
downplayed the impor-

ban in the fourth quarter to pro-
vide the ﬁnal margin of 21-7.

Urban caught half of Fischer’s 16
completions for a total of 67 yards on the
afternoon. With'his stellar effort, Urban
moved into ﬁrst place in the ODAC re-
ceiving standings.

The big story for the Generals, though,
was the defense. After causing only one
opposition turnover prior to the contest,
W&L forced Hampden-Sydney into com-
mitting five turnovers.

Safety Butler Ball led the charge with
an interception and a fumble recovery, to
go along with six tackles and one sack. His
interception in the fourth quarter thwarted
the Tigers’ comeback hopes. Defensive
tackle Robert Hull made his presence felt
by forcing two fumbles and recovering
one, as well as making ten tackles.

Sophomore defensive tackle Omar
Moneim came through in a big way for
W&L with his first collegiate fumble re-
covery. Safety Stuart Hogue had 13 tack-
les, as well as an interception.

Head coach Frank Miriello was ex-
tremely pleased with the Generals’ overall
effort in erasing the Generals’ ten~year
drought at Hampden—Sydney.

“lt was a big win, and we took a big step
as a team,” he said. ‘‘It was a major
obstacle for us to overcome.”

The Generals overcame another large
obstacle by sticking it to Sewanee in Ten-
nessee on Saturday, 36-2]. W&L won at
Sewanee for the first time since 1989 in
doing so. In fact, the visitor has prevailed
only ten times now in the teams’ 41 meet-

the end zone, putting W&L back in
front, 19-14.

The Generals extended that lead
when McKinley scored on a four-yard
run, making the score 26-14.

The running back was having an-
other solid game with 94 yards gained
until he re-injured his shoulder. He
will be forced to miss the next game
against Bridgewater.

Sewanee got back into the game late
in the third quarter on another touch-
down pass by Caputo, but that is where
the fun ended for the crowd of 4,034.

The W&L defense took control in
the final quarter, starting with line-
backer Travis Wisdom’s tackle on a
3rd-and-1 play for Sewanee. Wisdom
led the defense with nine tackles.

Thomas extended the margin to 29-
21 with his record-tying third ﬁeld goal
of the game, this time from an impres-

tance of Bridgewater’s
winless record.

“The challenge is not
Bridgewater,” he said. “The chal-
lenge is for us to maintain our focus
and keep our eyes on the ball.”

With the Generals riding a three-
game winning streak after starting
the year 0-2-1, Miriello feels the
team will be even more pumped up
for Parents Weekend. ‘

“We’re on a roll now,” he said,
“and we’re going to play better with
mom and dad up in the bleachers.”

The coach is also optimistic about
the Generals’ attempt to post back-
to-back winning seasons, since they
play their ﬁnal three games at home.

“We’ve proven that we can win
on the road,” he said. “But for these
three games coming up, we’re going
to have to play our best to win.”

Still, “we’d rather do it at home
than on the road.”

Asthe all-important regional
meet nears for both the men’s
and women’s cross-country
teams, both teams continue their
excellent running.

. Last week at Gettysburg, the
men’s team placed second out
of 29 teams, trailing only Divi-
sion ll Millersville. Sophomore
Jason Callen led the Generals
with a time of 26:51 over the
8,000-meter course.
performance was good enough
to capture fourth place overall
in the meet and earn him W&L
Athlete of the Week honors.

Senior Brad Paye’s 14th-
place ﬁnish and sophomore Tay-
lor Shultz’s 22nd-place ﬁnish
also aided the Generals. Addi-
tionally, sophomore Will Olson
and freshman Darrick Alford
scored points, as they finished
fourth and ﬁfth, respectively, on

Callen’s

When asked about the team ’s
performance at Gettysburg,
Olson commented, “We had a
good overall team performance;
however, some of us individu-
ally had subpar races.”

A week earlier, the men won

Olson, and Shultz.

east region.

on November 11.

sion Ill Championships.

ﬁdent in their abilities.

not become complacent.

don’t give 100 percent.”

 

Water Polo:

The Generals turned in a strong
performance in the EWPA Divi-
sion Ill Championship tournament.

In the ﬁrst round, W&L blew
away the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, 19-6. Rich Cober led
the way with ﬁve goals. In the next
match, James Silberstein’s five
goals enabled W&L to dispatch the
U.S. Merchant Marine, 22-12.

The going got rougher in the
championship game against Johns
Hopkins. W&L stayed close, but
the Blue Jays pulled out a 12-8 win.

W&L takes a 10-9 record with
them this weekend to compete in
the EWPA Southern Playoffs.

Volleyball:

The Generals came away with a
split at the Gallaudet Invitational
this past weekend. W&L knocked
off Salisbury State, 3-0, and rallied
to beat Mary Washington, 3-2, in
the tournament ﬁnale for its wins.

Hilary Martin’s 51 kills in the
tournament gave her 295 for the
season, breaking a school record.
Cheryl Taurassi’s 46 assists in a
match nearly tied her school record.

W&L travelled to Guilford on
Tuesday evening, and returned
home with a 15-9, 15-12, 15-11
victory in its pockets. Martin tied a
school record with her 24 kills.

The victory pushed W&L to 25-
6 overall, 8-1 in the ODAC.

Women’s Soccer:
W&Lconcluded the regular sea-
son with two tough losses to Notre
Dame (Md.) and Centre.
The Generals rallied back from
a 2-0 deficit to Notre Dame in the
second half, as Karin Treese scored
on a half-volley, but still fell, 2-1.
On Sunday against Centre, an

Erica Reineke oal ave W&L a
K 3 g

the Division ll-lll state meet for
the ﬁrst time. Paye was the ﬁrst
W&L runner to ﬁnish the race.
He was followed by Callen,

The Generals will go into their
next race, the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championship,
ranked ﬁrst in the South/South-

According to team members,
their goal is to perform well at
the ODAC Championships in
order to maintain their momen-
tum as they prepare for regionals

If the Generals place ﬁrst at
regionals, then they will journey
to Lacrosse, Wis., where they
will compete in the NCAA Divi-

The Generals have defeated
every regional foe that they have
raced this year, and they are con-
How-
ever, they realize-that they can-

“We must continue to work
our tails off if we expect to make
it to Lacrosse,” added Alford.
“We cannot expect to win if we

As for the women’s team, se-
nior Josephine Schaeffer contin-
ues to showcase her dominance.
Schaeffer has won all six meets
in which she has run this year,

Cross-country teams continue to perform well i

I
bringing her career winning total
to twenty-seven.

At the state meet, which the
Generals captured, she ran a blis-
tering 17:22 overthe 5,0()0-meter
course, and garnered All-State
honors for her performance.

Washington and Lee also had
excellent races turned in by fresh-
man Natasha Dorofeeva, sopho-
more Carson Flowers, and junior it
Nat Messmore, all of whom re-
ceived All-State honors due to
their performances.

At Gettysburg, there were no
official results for the women’s X
meet due to an administrative
foul-up; therefore, no team stand-
ings were recorded. However,
Schaeffer won with a time of
18:27, and Flowers ﬁnished sec-
ond with a time of 20:03. Addi- It
tionally, Messmore, senior
Catherine Cardullo, and fresh-
man Katye Jenkins ﬁnished in
the top ﬁve for the Generals.

The women are also looking
for a strong showing at the ’
ODACs and at regionals. Like
the men, the women must place
first at the regionals in order to
advance to the nationals.

If both teams are able to K
progress to Lacrosse, they will
then have the opportunity to
showcase their running prowess
to the rest of the nation.

1-0 lead, which it held until only
twenty minutes remained. Centre then
sneaked in a goal with 46 seconds left
to earn itself a 2-1 victory. I:

W&L rebounded on Tuesday in
the ODAC Tournament by shutting
down Guilford, 1-0. This time W&L
scored late, as Michelle Bauman con-
verted on a pass from Lorraine

Taurassi with twenty minutes left. A
The Generals (10-5) continue play

in the tournament with a semiﬁnal

game against Roanoke on Friday.
Men’s Soccer: I

The men’s soccer squad captured
its ﬁnal victory of 1995 last Friday
against Lynchburg, 7-2. Sam Chase
netted four goals in the game, break-
ing the W&L record for most goals in ‘
a season with eighteen. The Generals
were not so fortunate in their season
ﬁnale on Sunday, as they dropped a
2-0 decision to a ranked Centre team.

On Tuesday, Emory & Henry
scored a ﬂurry of goals late in the ﬁrst 1.
half to win a 5-1 triumph in ODAC
Tournament ﬁrst-round play. Jeb
Wofford accounted for the Generals’
goal on an assist from Chad Dobbins.

The loss to E&H ﬁnished the Gen- ,,
erals’ season with a record of 7-9.

Women’s Tennis:

In the “Super Bowl” of women’s
tennis, Julie Ayers and Natalia Garcia
scored one touchdown after another. I

Ayers and Garcia, who entered
the Rolex National Small College
Championships as at-large entries,
quickly took over the competition.
After knocking off Ohio Wesleyan, 1:
5-7, 7-5, 7-5, to win the Division III
doubles title, Ayers and Garcia spiked
Division II champion Cal-Bakers-
ﬁeld, 6-4, 6-4, to ensure themselves
as the doubles co-champions. .

Garcia played well herself, ﬁnish- 0
ing fifth in the singles bracket. 1

Looking for people with a history of
ankle
sprains to volunteer in a
rehabilitation.
Call for more information. Carrie at
462-4656.

OPENS TONIGHT!

  Children of a
Lesse‘1’0God

An Extmarrlitmry Love Story

Johnson theatre v Lenfest Center

Tickets: 463-8000
Oct. 27 at 9 pm.

Oct. 28 at 2 and 8 part.

Oct. 30 & 31 at 8 p.m.
Nov. 1 at 8 pm. ‘

_t... 1.2

l

