   
   
 

it

4 among faculty

 

fa

rt VOLUME 96; N0. 1

Breaking thel

silence:

WLUR rocks on 9

Hull watched

by pro scout 6

Ultra ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Is this the line for Dead tickets?

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Students stand in line outside Robinson Hall to matriculate Wednes-
day. Matriculation culminates in the Opening Convocation, which
marks the beginning of the new academic year.

By ANNE ALVORD
Phi News Editor

Lime green counters. Harvest
ellow appliances. Moss green

  

A} in the Woods Creek Apartments
 until this summer, when the first
“r phase of a two phase project to

‘g renovate the Woods Creek Apart-

. ments was completed.

 In this first phase, all of the

apartments in the West Building
of Woods Creek were entirely
renovated. In the second phase,

iles. Such was the color scheme‘

slated to be completed next sum-
mer, the apartments in the Cen-
tral and East buildings will un-
dergo the same renovations.
The color scheme was

_ changed to lighten and brighten

the apartments, with all of the
interiorbeing repainted. The win-
dow treatments and blinds were
also replaced. The kitchens were
ﬁtted with new cabinets and ap-
pliances, and a new dining area
created. The apartments have new
furniture throughout, along with
new carpeting and tile. Also, the
hallways were repainted

By ANNE ALVORD
Phi News Editor

oods Creek gets face lift

and ﬂoored.

The costupon completion will
be around one million dollars.

The project was the ﬁrst reno-
vation of Woods Creek in its 20
year history, and it was “time to
do a signﬁcant and complete up-
grade,” according to Dean of
Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning. The work was
completed by Buildings and
Grounds in conjuction with Har-
ris Office Furniture of Roanoke.
The University, Manning says,
is continuing to look for ways to
improve student living.

Keck Foundation grants
$250,000 to Science Center

the name of the Keck Foundation linked to this

great step forward in the sciences at Washington

and Lee.”

teaching and
research by fa-
cilitating col-
1 a b o r a t i o n

in the sciences
and by increas-
ing and im-
proving class-
room, labora-
tory, and
library space.
“We are
very grateful to

The W.M. Keck Foundation has awarded Wash-
ington and Lee University a grant of $250,000
toward the construction of a geology laboratory in
the university’s new Science Center.

The Science Center project, currently under
construction, is designed to enhance the qualitygf

4'

   

 

the Keck

‘ Foundation for
its generosity to Washington and Lee University,”
said W&LPresident John W. Elrod. “This grant for
a geology laboratory contributes signiﬁcantly in
funding the geology department’s relocation in the
new Science Center. We are proud indeed to have

‘File Photo

The Los Angeles-based foundation was estab-
lished in 1954 by the late William Myron Keck,
founder of the Superior Oil Company. The founda-
tion has grown considerably under the leadership
of his son, Howard B. Keck, its current chairman,
and is now one of the nation’s largest private grant-
making foundations.

Washington and Lee also par-
ticipates in the foundation’s 12-
college Geology Consortium.
Over 70 students and faculty form
the consortium’s member col-
leges conductsummer ﬁeldwork,
winter academic workshops,and
an annual symposium at which
undergraduates present research
papers of professional caliber.

“Collaboration in research and
teaching with the other colleges
in the Keck Geology Consor-
tium has greatly strengthened our
program in geology and has pro-
vided extraordinary opportuni-

ties for our students and faculty,” said Edgar W. N 
Spencer, professor of geology and department head. i 7

“We are deeply indebted tot he Keck Foundation _
for its support of the consortium and for their gift ~  I-
for new science facilities.” :

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA SEPTEMBER 8, 1995

Kemp to advise Mock Con

ByEmily Baker
Phi Executive Editor

Jack Kemp has agreed to join
seven other political ﬁgures and
head the advisory board for
Washington and Lee’s1996
Mock Convention.

Members of the advisory
board use their inﬂuence and
write letters to invite political
ﬁgures to come speak through-
out the Mock Con year and for
the actual event.

When Kemp came to W&L
last Spring Term for the Kickoff,
Mock Con chairs spoke with him
at length after his speech.

“He was really informative
and said he would help us out in

The chairs also include
George Bush on their list

any way he could,” said Bob
Ross, Mock Con political chair.

“I think we’ve got a pretty
good shot with Newt Gingrich,”

“So we asked him to be said David of hopeful speak-
‘ our advisor.” V ers.

Kemp agreed. rely yours’ In addition to

Hewroteto writing letters to

Speaker ’ C potential speak-
ers, advisors are
available for ad-
vice or questions
thatMockConchairs
may have.

Kemp joins an advi-
sory board including Wil-
liam F. Buckley, Jr., Stephen
1. Danzansky ’61, Bob W.
Goodlatte ’77L, Richard D.
Haynes ’58L, Robert A.
Mosbacher ’47, ’49L, V. Lance
Tarrance, Jr. ’63 and John S.

Warner ’49.

o f

3 Stewart,
the House Mock Con General

Newt Gingrich in July, asking Chairman. “He and Kemp are
for his participation in Mock Con. really good friends.”

Rush begins, shortened pledgeship follows

By MICHAEL HEwuTr
Phi Associate Editor

of the South. The study surveyed 17 schools
in which 12 had Winter Rush with no prob-
lems. He also cited the Coeducation Review

administration and the faculty to wrestle au-
thority away from student organizations.
Connolly estimated that 90-95 percent of

There are only a few changes for fresh-

Committee Final Report. Both documents

freshmen males will rush this fall. Speciﬁc
concluded that Winter Rush would beneﬁt

numbers were not available at ress time.

men in this year’s Fall Rush, said Interfra-
temity Council president Ryan Connolly.

Rush ofﬁcially begins tonight. Tear night
will occuron September 23, with pledgeship
starting the next day. This year it will end
before Christmas vacation, and freshman
males will initiate in January. Last year
ofﬁcial pledgeship began in January.

Last year, the faculty approved the short-
ened pledge schedule as well as a Winter
Rush plan, to begin January 1997.

Winter Rush came about when Profes-
sor of Physics Thomas Williams gave a
proposal to the faculty last year that was

1 based on a two-year study by the University

students.
Many faculty members support Winter
Rush because they believe it will remove

some of the pressure freshman males feel

and allow them to focus on their academics.
IFC and fraternity members opposed
Winter Rush from the beginning. They ar-
gued that Winter Rush would hurt member-
ship and ﬁnance. Smaller houses might ﬁnd
difﬁculty competing with larger houses and
might lose their charter if they fail to reach
new members quota, the IFC contended.»
Winter Rush also revived the issue of
student autonomy. Some students believed
that Winter Rush was an attempt by the

.» “* rr '*";.*:

    

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Men participate in Rush 1994

SAC approves new alcohol policy

By EMILY BAKER

Phi Executive Editor

‘After years of studying alcohol use among Washington and Lee
students, study groups both inside and outside the W&L community
have come to this conclusion: We drink a lot more than other schools.

As a result of these ﬁndings, the
Student Affairs Committee ap-
proved a new University Policy on
Alcohol and a new University Policy
on Drugs. The faculty will likely
vote on the policies in October.

The two policies are separate,
just as they are under laws of the
Commonwealth of Virginia. Dean
of Students David Howison said the
new policies emphasize the obliga-
tion W&L students have to obey
Virginia laws.

;“The Washington and Lee cam-
pus is not a sanctuary and Univer-
sity authorities will cooperate fully
with law enforcement agencies in
support of drug laws,” the drug
policy reads.

The policy changes are based on

research done over the past ﬁve years by groups including the Dean
of Students staff, the Coeducation Review Committee, the Student
Health Committee, and a consulting team from the North Carolina
Substance Abuse. -
The SAC based their conclusions on both student discussions and
records of alcohol-related statistics over the past five years. For
instance, a national average of 59 percent of students attending
highly selective colleges say they drank alcoholic beverages before

Governor’s Institute on Alcohol and

coming to college. A survey of W&L’s class of 1998 revealed that 77
percent of students drank before coming

“This means our students have already started drinking before
they even get here,”

to W&L.

Howison said.

The number of alcohol-related student arrests has risen since a

1991 low of 85 incidents. In 1992-93, the number increased to 121,
primarily because of an increase in arrests for drinking in public. In
1993-94, the total grew to 139, and in the 94-95 school year, the total

was 145, partially due to an in-
crease in noise violations.

    

and speakers.

. _, M, ‘ ,, v .. Q, .. :
Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

All 12 cases handled by the
Student Conduct Committee dur-
ing the 1994-95 school year in-
volved alcohol, according to the
Student Judicial Report. Most
sexual assault and harassment
cases also involve alcohol.

But more than policies are
needed to lessen the impact of
drugs and alcohol on the student
body, Howison said. Student lead-
ers must “assume a major role in
any effort to address the problem
of alcohol abuse among students
at Washington and Lee,” he
said.

The policy also emphasizes
that students are adults respon-

sible for conforming their behavior to the law.
In recent years, the health education program has included drug
and alcohol education in its programming, through classes, seminars

In addition to education, students now have a wider variety of
social events to choose from. After the 1994 hiring of Student
Activities Coordinator Michelle Richardson, students could attend
coffee houses, poetry readings, dinner theaters and debates.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Ripken breaks record

Baltimore — Baltimore Orioles shortstop Cal Ripkin played his
2,131st consecutive game, breaking Lou Gehrig’s 56 - year old record. At
Cambden Yards on Wednesday night, Ripkin led the Orioles to a victory
over the California Angels. One million dollars of the proceeds from
ticket sales will go to Johns Hopkins University to fund a study on
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig’s disease.

Ethics committee recommends
Packwood’s expulsion

Washington, D.C. — After a two and a half year investigation, the
Senate Ehics Committee voted on Wednesday to recommend that Senator
Bob Packwood (R -Ore.) be expelled for sexual and official misconduct.
Packwood, who had recently requested public hearings, stated that he
does not plan to resign to avoid expulsion. If the Senate fails to produce
a two thirds vote for expulsion, the committe members stated it would
present another recommendation for the censure of Packwood and loss of
his Finance Committee chairmanship.

1 NATO, UN continue bombing

Bosnia —— NATO warplanes continued to bomb targets in Central
Bsnia this week. However, Bosnian Serbs have shown no sign of lifting
their seige of Sarajevo. On Wednesday, NATO ambassadors met in
Brussels to discuss Operation Deliberate Force. The multi-nation alli-
ance remains unified and plans to continue attacks.

Fuhrman pleads the Fifth

Los Angeles — On Wednesday, Detective Mark Fuhrman asked for
his Fifth Amendment protection agaist self-incrimination. Fuhnnan
would not answer four of the defense’s questions pertaining to whether or
not he planted evidence against O.J. Simpson. Before Fuhnnan took the
stand on Wednesday, the defense renewed its motion to suppress crucial
evidence collected by detectives after the June 12, 1994 murders of Nicole
Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Bethany Bauman

GOP Watch

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Gunderson accuses Dole of
discrimination in campaign

Rep. Steve Gunderson (R-Wis), Congress’ only openly gay Republi-
can, has criticized Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-Kan) for returning
a $1,000 contribution from the Log Cabin Republicans, the national gay
Republican group. Gunderson endorsed Dole in 1988 and was one of the
earliest supporters fo his current presidential campaign. Gunderson sent
Dole a letter Sept. 6 asking whether Dole’s move meant that he was
rejecting the support of anyone who is gay. “If this is so,” asked
Gunderson, “do you intend to now reject my support and request those on
your staff who h _pen to be gay to resign?” The contribution was returned
two weeks ago with the statement that the gay group’s agenda was “100
percent at odds” with Dole’s. Campaign spokesman Nelson Warfield said
that Dole will respond personally to Gunderson and that returning the
contribution “was not about discrimination.” Rich Tafel, Executive

Director of the Log Cabin Republicans, said the donation had been
solicited by the Dole campaign.

Dole to make English official
language of United States

GOP front-runner Bob Dole’s Labor Day speech to the American
Legion Convention in Indianapolis included an endorsement of English as
the official language of the United States. Dole said, “If we are to return
this country to greatness, we must do more than restore America’s
defenses...We must return as a people to the original concept of what it
means to be an American.” Under Dole’s proposals, most bilingual
education programs would be eliminated and English would be made the
national language. He has yet to endorse any of the bills before Congress.
Sen. Dick Lugar (R-Ind), Gov. Pete Wilson (R-Calif) and Pat Buchanan’s
campaigns all restated their support for English as the official language.
Buchanan said, “Dole is really violating the copyright laws. I came out for
this in 1992, and I said then that all federal funding for bilingual education
should be ended.”

New Hampshire paper
endorses Buchanan

The Manchester Union Leader, New Hampshire’s only daily newspa-
per, has endorsed Pat Buchanan for the Republican nomination. The
Union Leader said of Buchanan, “Our country is in need of a leader whom
we can trust, who has moral integrity, who would put America first and
who is capable of sending Bill Clinton back to Arkansas. In our opinion,
Pat Buchanan ﬁlls all those requirements.” The historically conservative
paper also stated that, “Of all the viable candidates, he is the ony on eho
has not shifted his positions to curry favor with the mood of the moment.
Yes, Pat Buchanan can win.” Buchanan, campaigning in South Carolina,
said he was surprised and pleased by the early endorsement. “It's a
tremendous boost for our campaign and it means that, I think, it’s a Bob
Dole-Pat Buchanan race in New Hampshire.” Buchanan was endorsed by
the Union Leader in 1992, which endorsed Pete DuPont in 1988 and
Ronald Reagan in both 1984 and 1980.

GOP Watch is compiled by Alex Christensen

C-School now named for benefactor ilims.

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The School of Commerce, Politics, and Economics at Washington and Lee has
been named for one of the university’s most generous benefactors, 1938 graduate

Ernest Williams II.

In addition to voting unanimously to name the school for Williams, which will
henceforth be known as the Ernest Williams II School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics, the university’s Board of Trustees established a $1 million endow-
ment to strengthen the Williams School in the areas of faculty development,

research, and emerging technology.

“The Board’s action in naming the school for Ernie Williams is an appropriate
testimonial to this devoted alumnus and his commitment to Washington and
Lee,” said former President John D. Wilson. “Ernie has given so much of himself
to his University, not only through his gifts, but through his time, talent, and

energy.”

During the course of the Campaign for W&L, Williams, his wife, Marjorie,
and their family made gifts to the University that are unprecedented in size and
scope. The couple’s gifts to Washington and Lee have created the Ernest

Williams II Professorship (currently held by professor of art history Pamcla

Simpson), the Marjorie 0. Williams Endowment for Library Acquisitions, and
the Marjorie O. and Ernest Williams Il Honor Scholarship Endowment.
Williams entered W&L as a journalism major from Lynchburg. He worked
as a reporter brieﬂy after graduating before moving on to a career in business.
After working in the insurance trade and serving in the Navy in World War II, he

embarked on a career in sales and investments.

Following his retirement from the investment business, he and his wife
opened an antique shop in Hilton Head, S.C. The couple gave up shop in 1981
and later moved to Florida, where they currently reside.

The Rin -tum Phi Se tember8 1995

 

A

    

is E LCOME
TO me
1mi.i.:AIus
commence ' semen.

in 1' 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-rum Phi.

 

A friendly sign bids welcome in the Williams School.’

“It is ﬁtting that the trustees have chosen to recognize the devoted service and
magnanimous generosity of Ernie Williams by naming the school in his honor,”
said C-school dean Larry Peppers. “With the creation of the Williams Endow-

ment, the school will receive a major assist in keeping pace with newly

developing knowledge in the explosion of information technology and the‘
continuously changing international forces that are reshaping economies, gov-
ernmental institutions, and commercial markets around the world.”

Student pub to open on Friday nights,

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Looking for a cool spot to hang out, drink a few
beers, and enjoy live entertainment? Better try the
Palms, Spanky’s or fraternity parties, right? Wrong.

Now there’s another option — the GHQ.

At the request of the Alcohol Review Committee
(ARC), the General’s Headquarters will be open on
Friday and Saturday nights to the Washington and
Lee community. Live entertainment, food and alco-
hol will be on the menu to add diversity to the
Lexington social scene.

“We wanted a place where students, faculty, and
staff could come together and take a break,” said
Dean of Students David Howison.

Formed last year in response to growing concerns
about alcohol misuse on campus, ARC developed a
plan to combat alcohol abuse on campus and gener-
ated ideas for alternative social activities. The GHQ
Pub, one of ARC’s suggestions, is the first to be
adopted by the University.

Student Activities Coordinator Michelle
Richardson received ARC’s idea enthusiastically
and filled the Pub’s September social calendar with
such W&L favorites as Roger Day, Settie, and the
duo of Brian Boland and Tommy Esposito.
Richardson said informal student polls indicated
there was a strong demand for a GHQ Pub.

“This is what the students wanted, and this is what

Photo courtesy of Marium Holland

Marium Holland dances as "Winter" in
a 1994 Charleston Ballet performance.

W&L wins CASE award

for development

we’re going to do,” said Richardson.

Yet to be officially named, the GHQ Pub was
designed to accommodate students who desired to
participate in non-traditional social activities in addi-
tion to drinking. Last year’s popular coffee houses
and poetry readings were a huge hit with students.
The addition of alcohol should attract even more
students.

Richardson said the idea behind the Pub was not
to compete with the fraternities for party- goers, but to
exist in conjunction with them.

Students often make GHQ events kick-offs to
their Friday and Saturday nights for they head out to
fraternity parties afterwards, Richardson said. The
Pub will coexist with the Greek scene.

Contrary to rumor, ARC’s original guideline for
the Pub that patrons only be allowed one drink an
hour, totaling four drinks for the evening, was re-
jected.

According to Richardson, the Pub will follow any
typical bar’s rules. Non-student managers will
monitor the serving and consumption of drinks and
patrons will not be limited to four drinks.

“If people are getting out of hand, then they will
have to leave just like any bar,” explained Richardson.

While ARC’s express purpose is to help curb the
excessive nature of alcohol abuse at W&L, Chairman
Karlene Jennings ’96 said she had no qualms with the
administration’s lifting of the cap.

“(The drink cap) was just a guideline. It was only
one tiny part of a larger picture,” Jennings said.

The Pub’s grand opening is scheduled for tonight,

and Richardson has planned quite a debut. Roger
Day, a W&L alum, will perform his acoustic show.
Tonight will also see the “Name that Pub Contest.”
Fill out an entry coupon and receive a free slice of
pizza. (See advertising section of this issue.) The ‘“
Pub opens at 9 p.m. Cheers.

~»nl$%"

  

...,£

‘I Phot b tsy reen, TheRing-tum Phi
The GHQ will now be serving
alcohol on Friday nights. ‘--

 

W&L Dance offers dance classes‘
by experienced performers

By ROBIN D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

and taught with American All-Stars, Inc. 7

Puzon has gymnastics, jazz, funk, and dance
team training. She choreographed for her high
school dance team and was chosen to perfonn
in the Alamo Bowl halftime performance.

Washington and Lee has a new opportunity
for people who love to dance. Jazz, modern

In addition, sophomores Marium Hollan
and Robin Seaton will lead ballet and stretci?
courses. Holland has studied classical ballet for

9

ballet, and stretch classes will begin soon, led
by both professional and student instructors.
Beginning classes in W&L Dance are available
for those with little or no experience, while
advanced courses will allow dancers to con-
tinue their training.

Colette Barre-Rec will teach modern dance
classes. She also instructs W&L’s modern
dance "physical education courses. In addition,
Missy Smithgall will offer ballet classes. These
sessions will require a small fee.

Washington and Lee students will lead sev-
eral classes. Jazz and funk teachers will be
sophomores Mimi Duet and Cheryl Puzon.
Trained in jazz, tap, ballet, modern, and funk,
Duet danced in the pregame shows for Super
Bowls XXV and XXVII. She both performed

twelve years and performed as a soloist with the
Charleston Ballet. She attended Point Park
College’s International Summer Dance Pro-
gram, and last year Holland taught and danced
with the Rockbridge Ballet.

Seaton studied for fourteen years with the
Creative Arts Guild. As a member of Dalton
Ballet Theatre, she taught and choreographed
both ballet and jazz for apprentice companies;
and performed as a soloist. She also studied)
with instructors from Ballet Tennessee, Jazz
Dance Theater South, and the Atlanta Ballet.

Classes will be held in the basement of
Lenfest Center, with times to be announcer;
soon. Instructors are aiming tentatively for a
spring performance as well. Interested students
should contact Cheryl Puzon at 462-4224 or
Marium Holland at 462-4193.

From Phi staff reports

Washington and Lee University’s office of development
has won a 1995 Circle of Excellence in Educational Fund-
raising award from the Council for Advancement and Support
of Education (CASE). A certificate recognition was awarded
during CASE’s Annual Assembly in New York City on‘July

eleventh.

Earning a citation for overall fund-raising performance,
the university was one of 57 higher education institutions and
41 independent schools to win that award or one for improve-
ment. Judges based their decisions on their analysis of data
submitted to the Council for Aid to (CAE) through its annual
“Voluntary Support of Education” survey, sponsered by CASE
and the National Association of Independent Schools. They

looked for evidence of solid program growth, breadth in base
of support, and other evidence of a well—maintained, mature

program.

“This year’s winners represent a broad spectrum of educa-
tional institutions and serve as models of outstanding fund-
raising practice,” said CASE President Peter McE. Buchanan.
“Their success is an enormous benefit to their staffs, volun-

teers, and donors.”

The Council for Advancement and Support of Education is
an international association of colleges, universities, and
independent elementary and secondary schools. Represent-
ing these institutions are professionals in the fields of alumni

relations, communications, and philanthropy.

Signing their lives away...

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring—tum Phi

Freshmen at Wednesday's Activity Fair investigate the ‘
many clubs which highlight the diverse talents and
interests present in the W&L community.

 

 

E " S O
I .-
The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 8, 1995 1

Rocking students throug anothergear

PAGE 3

prominence, now line the walls of “In addition to great new albums ing releases from frente! and the Gin weeks.” by each of the other departments as
BY CINDIE YOUNG WLUR’s office. They are ready to be fromestablishedaltemativeartistssuch Blossoms among others, we’ve dis— Soontobe featuredduringWLUR’s well, and additional U.S. Mail crates
, _ 59”°d ‘h1'°“8h _h)’ B re a k t h ro u g h offer testimony that new music will be

Phi Features Edltor thh °°"'°5P°h‘hh8 , i show, a daily featured in every department.

4, station managers.

After a three month pause, the air _ Theses lh addi‘
about campuswill soon hum once again hoh ‘° the ‘h°“53hd5
with the sounds of W&L’s own radio “ff albums ‘he Sta‘
station’ WLUR tion has already ac-

From its studios in Reid Hall, the °“h“-hated’ ehshrea

7‘ radio station offers a wide‘ variety of h°V°"°h‘hhg V311’

time slot for the
newest of new
music, are bands
such as Liquorice,
Shampoo, Blink,
Garbage, That
Dog, The Stiffs,

Operated in association with the
Department of Journalism and Mass
Communications, WLUR 91.5 is open
to all students, and airtime is available
to all, even those with little or no expe-
rience.

Any interested students are encour-

programming, with a schedule includ- ct)’ 1“ W1-UR’5 Pm’ I nc., the - Verve, aged _by WLUR staff to attend the orga-
ing rock, country, jazz, rap and dance, gmmhhhg f9‘ ‘he Ash, and My Life nizational meeting this Wednesday at
classical and inspirational slots. hP°°h“h8 Yeah With The Thrill 7 p.m., in Reid Hall. Posters will be

WLUR’s programming also features 5 0 P h_° m 0 T 9 Kill Kult, Swisher posted across campus with further de-
1‘ daily news programs, drawn together Sarah Swlsheh the promises. tails.

station’s Rock Di-  
rector, is particularly
excited about the '

many new artistssoontobefeaturedon as Hole, The [Mighty Mighty]
this year’s playlist. Bosstones, Soul Asylum, and upcom-

While rock of-
ficially receives
more airtime (and
more music) than any other depart-
ment, an exciting format can be boasted

With its wide variety of program-
ming throughout the day, 91.5 prom-
ises to be a popular resting point for the
tuner on every radio, whether of stu-

dent or professor.
Campus Paperback

Bestsellers Hidy combines fine art and -graphic design
‘- .. 1...  cs... Carr in works on display in duPont and Leyburn

2. The Hot Zone, Richard Preston

by journalism students from both As-
sociated Press and local news reports.
U.S. Mail crates, containing hun-
dreds of new releases from bands of

}‘ local, national and even international

covered a lot of new bands that will
receive heavy airplay in the next few

h‘ 8. Seven Habits for Highly Effective People ,
m2wmR.amy
9. Circle of Friait, Maeve Binchy
10. Chicken Soup for the Soul, Jadc
1 Canfield and Mark Victor Hansen

3. Debt of Honor, Tim Clancy

4. The Stone Diaris, Carol Shielcb

A 2nd Helping of Chicken Soup for the
Stul, Jack Canfield and Mark Victor

Hazsen
6. Apollo 13 , Jimlovell
7. The Chamber, John Grisham

New & Recommended
Who will Run the Frog Hospital?,
Lorrie Moore
Shelter, Jayne Anne Phillips
A Marble Woman, Louisa May Alcott

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

With one poster already hanging within the walls of
Washington and Lee, graphic artist Lance Hidy will this
Tuesday, September 19, return to campus, this time to open
duPont Gallery’s 1995-96 academic year.

While Hidy’s most familiar work to the W&L commu-
nity may well be the poster he designed for the James
Graham Leybum Library, he has produced many other
celebrated posters, computer designs, illustrative prints,
and photographs, and has earned a reputation both across
the United States and abroad as an artist of considerable
talent.

Neaxly as impressive as his artistic ability, however, is
his professional training.

Hidy first studied art as a freshman at Yale in 1964, from
which he graduated four years laterwith a background in
calligraphy, letterpress printing, etching, wood cut, wood
engraving, lithography, serigraphy, photography, as well
as the history of printing.

Upon graduating, Hidy went on to work with several
widely acclaimed artists, including Leonard Baskin, and
also David Godine, with whom he founded a Boston pub-
lishing house.

His interest in design has led Hidy to create a photo-
graphic book of his own, as well as award-winning work
with such masters as Ansel Adams and Arnold Newman.

Acquiring his first Macintosh in 1986, Hidy has since
become a prominent figure in the ﬁeld of computer art and
type design, and has secured for himself a reputation as an
internationally recognized artist. Hidy’s own typeface for
Adobe systems, Penumbra, was issued in 1994.

In the span of his career, Lance Hidy has risen to the
position of an internationally celebrated artist whose work
brings together the worlds of fine art and graphic design,
while at the same time drawing both into the future.

His work has been collected and exhibited across the
United States as well as beyond, including a retrospective at
the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1994.
The show then moved to the Maryland Institute, College of
Art, where Hidy has been named visiting artist twice.

Among Hidy ’s plans for the future is a change of address
for the artist, from his current home in Newburyport, Mas-

sachusetts, to Lexington, Virginia.
Ari exhibit featuring some of Hidy’s many works will
open in duPont Gallery on September 12, and will run

through Octo-
ber 5.
duPont "...Hidy may well Gal-
] e r y ’ ‘ hours
areM0n- best be known day
h h F'-
§,'y",”gg for the poster ,,’,,',_
t5.. ~ Ad-
gisgignn he designed for i S
fr<=e-Ad- the teyburn Li— d i -
tional " post-
ers, as brary... well
HS 6X-
"amples ofhis

work in the book arts, will be on display in Lower Level 2
of the Leyburn Library throughout the exhibit.

The artist himself will visit the W&L campus on Tues-
day, September 19, when duPont Hall will host a lecture
delivered by the artist, as well as a gallery reception. Hidy’s
talk is set for 5:30 p.m.; a public reception will follow.

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

His official title is “Professor of Music,” but his
dozens of students refer to him simply as “Doc.”
Whatever people choose to call him, no one can
deny that Dr. Gordon P. Spice is an integral part of
the W&L community.

Doc arrived in Lexington after thirteen years of
post—secondary education. “Many of my friends
said, ‘When are you going to become a productive
member of society?” remarks Spice. He did fill his
schedule at W&L, conducting the Glee Cub and
teaching voice lessons, music appreciation, and
music history.

Currently, he directs the University Chamber
Singers, and teaches several music classes as well.

“' Doc is proud of the progress made by the depart-

ment of music since his arrival twenty—two years
ago. “With the addition of the faculty since l’ve
come on board, the department has grown, and
we’ve become a real, extremely viable part of the
W&L community,”says Spice. -
Not only does he take pride in W&L’s growing
music department, but also in his family. Doc says
the greatest achievement of his life is that he and his
wife raised their sons to be the terrific young people

"Spice"—ing up life

they are today. “One of the good things about being
at Washington and Lee is that I totally subscribe in
my own personal life to the concept of honor and
honesty,” says Spice, “and I really worked hard to
try to instill that in our children. I think l’ve
succeeded pretty well!”

Two of the most important things in Doc’s life-
family and music—consistently intertwine. He met
his wife when they were both members of the
University of Toledo choir; his sons are both music
majors.

In his spare time, Doc likes to get down 'n dirty
by laboring on his house. “In the summertime, I like
to do something physical like that, that really doesn’t
involve a whole lot of mental activity,” explains
Spice, “and it’s a wonderful, wonderful release.”

Doc loves to travel. He especially enjoys the
week he spends in the back-country of Canada each
year. “We have a cottage in northern Ontario that
my grandfather built in 1916, and it’s been in our
family for a long time,” says Spice. “It’s a very
remote part of the world. There’s no electricity, no
running water, no so-called ‘improvements.’ It’s a
great place to get away from it all.”

Everyone has a vice, and Doc’s just happens to be
that he likes to eat—especially hot fudge sundaes.
“I’ve really had to watch it in recent years, and I hate
itl” exclaims Spice. “I miss being able to indulge
myself.” Good luck kickin’ the habit, Docl

 

W

?__



Niclzname: Gus, after the mouse in .

Cinderella.

Birthplace: Flirt Flori, Manatoba, Canada.
(“It sounds lilze a jolze, but that's really the
name of the towni")

Family: Wife, Ann; two sons, Reed and
Grahm.

Favorite Movie: David and Lisa, a '60s 
about two emotionally disturbed young people
who meet in a home for emotionally disturbed
people, and fall in love.

BY COURTNEY MILLER
Phi Features Editor

Roger Day is one of those perform-
ers whose slow ballads tug at the heart,
and whose upbeat melodies bring out
smiles on rainy days. His 1993 release
Rich Man, Poor Man, Beggar Man,
Thief is an acoustic treat.

The 13 songs were all written, pro-
duced and arranged by Day. The themes
of his songs tend to lapse into the
familiar and overdone, but his melo-
dies save many of the pieces.

Track One, “Looking for a Reason
to Believe in Love,” is jazzy enough to
pass for an Indigo Girls tune, and still
perfect enough to sing along to at 55
mph. The title of his album is taken
from its last verse.

His alternative-folk tunes helped
Day and former partner Eric Heinsohn
release two albums and open for the
then unsigned Indigo Girls. The duet
split in 1988, and Day has continued to
gainafollowingasasolo artistthrough-
out many college campuses.

Rich Man, Poor Man, Beggar Man
Thiefwas recently named in the top 12
independent releases by The Perform-
ing Songwriter Magazine.

Track Four, “Jenny,” is reminiscent
of many James Taylor ballads. The
love song is beautifully written, and
Day’s deep tenor voice cuts through

He tends to lapse into country twang
in such songs as “Honeysuckle Moon.”
The more upbeat melodies seem a little
worn out and don’t quite fit with his

ballads.

Day is a 1985 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee, having graduated with
honors in German. He returns to his
alma mater tonight. He is touring in
support of his most recent release, One
Equal Road.

He describes his music as ”sound-
ing somewhere to the right of the In-
digo Girls and to the left of James
Taylor with a healthy dose of R.E.M.
thrown in for good measure.”

His performances include music
from his two albums as well as more
popular songs from such artists as
Counting Crows and R.E.M.

Day is originally from Birmingham,
Alabama and now resides in Nashville,
Tennessee. Day is married and has two
children for whom he often writes
rhymes and sings songs.

Rich man, Poor Man, Beggar Man,
Thief is a terrific album. Day's ten-
dency to lapse into early folk-like rock
and add bits of country twang tend to
detract from the otherwise beautiful
music. Friday’s free concert at GHQ
should be quite a pleasing acoustical
performance, and could be Day’s road
to stardom and maybe MTV. We all
remember Hootie don’t we?)

By DAy HIS ACOUSTIC GUITAR
SOOTHES, ANd by NIGHT IT JAMS

and touches the heart. 

Publicity Photo
W&L alum Richard Day performs tonight at the GHQ.

Inmate writes
to fight death
row racism
against African
Americans

     
   
   

._, ..-.___
Live From 
Death Row BY MICHAEL HEWLETT

By Mumia

Phi Associate Editor
Abu-Jamal .

"You will find a blacker world on death row than anywhere else. African-
Americans, a mere 11 percent of the national population, compose about 40
percent of the death row population. There, too, you will find this writer."

This writer, Mumia Abu-Jamal, a death row inmate, gained international
attention this summer when a movement to prevent his excution began. Live
from Death Row offers Abu—Jamal's thoughts about racism and political bias in
the American judicial system and in society as a whole. He was convicted of the
murder of police officer Daniel Faulkner, but many contend that his trial reeked
of unfairness. He was scheduled to die by lethal injection on August 17, but was
granted a stay of execution to make way for a new trial.

This former radio journalist and current Pennsylvania death row inmate has
become an international symbol of the injustice he finds inherent in America’s
criminal justice system. Celebrities and intellectuals such as Alice Walker, Ed
Asner and Whoopi Goldberg have rallied to his cause. Abu—Jamal's case has been
taken up by Amnesty International and a host of other countries and he has been
declared a political prisoner.

The former Black Panther and a supporter of the Move organization in
Philadelphia has compiled his thoughts together in a powerful book entitled Live
from Death Row.

From the beginning of the book, Mumia lets the reader recognize his confined
humanity.

“Don’t tell me about the valley of the shadow of death. _I live there. In south-
central Pennsylvania’s Huntingdon County, a one-hundred—year-old prison
stands, its Gothic towers projecting an air of foreboding, evoking a gloomy mood
of the Dark Ages. I and some seventy-eight other men spend about twenty-two
hours a day in six- by ten-foot cells. The additional two hours may be spent
outdoors, in a chain—link-fenced box, ringed by concertina razor wire, under the
gaze of gun turrets.

"Welcome to Pennsylvania’s death row.”

This is the reality into which Mumia Abu-Jamal welcomes his reader. He tells
of his daily existence. Mumia describes the abuses he and other prisoners
experience. Images of beatings by prison guards and ﬂame-inspired suicide
attempts by disillusioned prisoners abound in this book. He lists Supreme Court
cases involving death row, indicating the iniquities in the prison system.

With clarity and bluntness, Abu-Jamal criticizes the injustices ofthe criminal
justice system and ofsociety as a whole. He lives up to his reputation as “the voice
of the voiceless.”

The essays go from the legal to the personal, from happiness to deep pain and
sorrow as this caged man speaks his mind.

Certainly, some readers may have trouble sympathizing with a convicted
murderer on death row, but Mumia presents a truth and a reality often hidden in
the flurry of emotional debate about crime, race and inequality. Whether or not
you think he is guilty or innocent, Mumia has a voice that must be heard. In the
end, this man on death row writes eloquently and provocatively enough to leave
the reader with some deep things to think about after closing the book.

Dead something intersting Ilately? feel
ilikr: writirg olbouit it’: DI-ease can the
IQ/ing-tum I-‘hi office at 4152--41069!

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

  

 

DAVE
by David Miller

 

= we've <)ECFETLY R’ ACEO
_ DAVE'€ FOUR CUP$ 3 . 1
MORNLNG COFFEE WITH...  ‘

 

@1995 David MiIer.All ‘ eserved, ' '-
Dist byTribme  inc. ‘ ‘
, ' .

 

COME 0N,DAKLA. \ WAS
H0?iN(1 THAT "BLCYCLING"
w0uL0 36 AN Acm/ITY
we couw EN Jay ‘\’06E‘THEil-’

    
  
     
 

  
     

    

 A I

  
  

 
  
    

CARTOONS

 

 EANS LOW PRICES!

S3  i “ _ K .\W
~11‘ ‘    .. ‘V .1” ,'-'°" §
 "  /‘ L E  

       

Harris Teeter
Large Grade A

Eggs __:_doz. 

PAGE 4

EIIISTGBIBI i

 
 
   
    
  
     

I‘

Be ular Or Junior
I I

‘t

:2‘ .... ' -

.1

Harris Teeter E 4* =
Homestyle

Wafﬂes__u oz. 99¢

   

  
  

  

2 HEY, BELLY. HEY, BELLY. ‘="
Si HEY, BELLY BELLY BELLY.

i HEY, BELLY BELLY.

ﬁg HEY, BELLY BELLY BELLY...

g‘:

  
 
 
 
  

 

Ring-tum Phi

Valle y 
maowana sronss 5’

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services is

now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Ca

     

  

Phi
______________.,_i_____

 

   
 

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. Jamaica, noun,
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 lC):1t?P§03?g4l§?f§ City Beach‘
0

 

Harris Teeter

o
C-
s.§
0

‘Q
"’ rb

Frozen
Concentrate

12 oz.

Hunter Farms
Trul Chocolate

59 E
' M, k 1/2 gaI.1

Harris Teeter‘
Apple Juice ~

    S)
. Soft Drink Feature

PEPSI ~
2
v .

 

    
  

 

 ’ ‘L 64 oz.

  

24 Pk. _12 Oz. Gang
Peps: Or _Dret‘
Pe st

49 7
109‘ i

Gra efruit

99

  

Folge_rs - 2 Liter L,
S ecral Roast 199 X *
offee 11.5 oz. V '

N b" S k H’
a5'e$7E‘i§s:"‘° we ‘ 99
Bars 7-8 oz.

Prices Effective Through Sept. 12, 1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, September 6 Through September 12, 1995 in Our _L¢Xi“8t0n Store
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food stamps. K

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Change comes from within

So there’s another university policy on alcohol.

Seems that every time you look, there’s another statement
or study or group of doctors saying that W&L students
drink too much.

Maybe it’s time we listen.

Yes, students at every college drink, and sometimes drink
excessively. But in drinking, as with everything else about
W&L, we’re not like other schools. Studies have shown that
we use and abuse alcohol more than other schools do. The
administration has updated policies to reﬂect its concern
about this.

But why should we curb our drinking? It’s just for fun, to
escape the pressures of the school week. It’s harmless.

And it is, if all that ever happens is that you drink and
laugh and dance and go home. But most of the bad things
that happen on this campus occur when people have been
drinking. Think of all the injuries, the fights, the property
damage, the sexual assaults that have led to everything from
broken legs to broken lives. Then think how many of these
involved alcohol. 4

Yes, drinking can be fun. It can make you laugh more
easily, dance more seductively, and ﬂirt like you never
thought you had the guts to. It’s a great time, until you wake
up with a stranger in your bed, or in jail, or realize there’s
another on your list of old hookups you can’t bear to look in
the eye when you pass them on the Hill. These are the kind
of things the administration hopes to curb, but they know
that policy alone will not change it.

The change must come from us. School officials can
write policies until their pens run dry, but alcohol abuse will
not stop until students realize it’s a problem. Until we get
tired of waking up and wondering what we did the night
before. Until drunken hookups become more trouble than
fun. Until we realize just how close we can come to hurting
ourselves or someone else.

No one’s preaching prohibition. That would be unrealistic
and extreme. But we need to realize that being out of
control isn’t fun; it’s unnecessary and dangerous. L

God and radio at W&L

We here at The Ring-tum Phi believe in divine
intervention. Every so often God opens the doors of
heaven, steps down through the clouds, and walks among
man on earth. ‘ e ‘

If you’ve listened to the radio recently, you can hear his

» handiwork. It’s called 104.7 FM and it comes out of

Richmond. Whatever you call it (progressive, grunge,

, alternative, college rock, buzz music), it rocks. Imagine two
years ago turning on the radio in Lexington and hearing the

likes of Belly, Silver Chair, Bush, Elastica, Sponge, Better
Than Ezra, Tori Amos, and Pearl Jam. The thought, not to
mention the possibility, was sheer madness. Let’s face it,

_, no one comes to Washington and Lee for the radio market.
‘ So, we masses starved; we subsisted on K92 FM in

Roanoke; we agonized with WREL.

God saw the injustice, the misery, the hell on earth
(well, in Lex anyway). And He came. He conquered
the airwaves.

Virginians are fond of telling visitors that they live in
God’s country. Maybe not, but this is sure where He listens
to radio.

Quote of the Week

“I'm surprised the upperclassmen are so eager to get to
know us.”
—Bewildered freshman male

3i\6H

tcKers?

N0! "4 ‘
I'M wkiftvotr

To (rgr A
P-E. cuss

PAGE 5

Flag, language issues threaten unity

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

To find a nation splintering into
factions, you could look at Bosnia.
You could also look at America.

While very few would suggest that
America will become another Bosnia,
it is not alarmist to say that in recent

not speech. There is a clear difference
between the two, constitutionally and
practically. While freedom of expres-
sion is a good shorthand for many
constitutional rights, no nation can
possibly permit absolute freedom
of expression.

Years ago, former Supreme Court
Justice Felix Frankfurter, when asked,
“What is
America?” an-

embodies the ideals and the heritage of
a nation. To permit careless desecra-
tion of the ﬂag is to tarnish those ideals
and the people that fought for them.
And to allow an activist judiciary to
stymie the will of the people is wrong.
One can only hope the Senate follows

the House’s action.
Congress is also likely to debate
another question
of national iden-

swered, “We are
nothing more than
the symbols we

(6

tity in the near
future—the En-
glish language.

emonies in foreign languages.

While no official language law
would prevent private citizens from
speaking in another language at home
or elsewhere, it does require them to
deal with the government in English,
a strong incentive to learn the
language ﬂuently.

An ofﬁcial language law does not
equal oppression of immigrants or mi-
norities as some would claim. Rather,
it is about the best way to integrate.
these people into American society and
equip them to succeed. Bilingualism

years, Americans have lost much of
our national identity. As a result, we
find ourselves currently engaged in a
debate over what our national identity
is and should be.

One ﬂashpoint for this debate re-
volves around the American ﬂag. A
few years ago, the Supreme Court de-
clared desecration of the"ﬂa‘g to be a '
protected form of speech under the
First Amendment, invalidating count-

cherish. We live
byoursymbolsbe-
cause a civiliza-
tion that does not
nurture and cher-
ish its symbols is
in danger of with-
ering away. The
ultimate founda-
tion of a free
ociety is the bind-

...Americans have
lost much of our na-
tional identity. As a

gaged in a debate
over what our na-
tional identity is and
should be.

More and more,
we find Ameri-
cans unable to

run rampant, and
yet it shows no
signs of improv-
ing English skills
in those for whom

too often coddles children (and adults)
by allowing them to rely on their pri-
mary language rather than encourag-

communicate ing them to learn English. When En-
result! we  Our’ with each other. glish is spoken by over 95 percent of
selves current en- Bilingualism has the population, this clearly has a nega-

tive effect on the ability of these people
to succeed.

There are few ties as precious as
language to a nation, and few abilities
as important as the ability to communi-

less state laws in the process. In early
July, the House voted to overturn the
Court’s decision and prohibit desecra-
tion of the American ﬂag by the over-
whelming margin of 312 to 120, 22
votes more than needed for the consti-
tutional amendment.

Opponents of the measure gener-
ally cry that proponents are seeking to
restrict free speech. This is an intellec-
tually dishonest and alarmist debating
tactic. Flag desecration is expression,

ing tie of cohe-
sive sentiment.”

As Rep. David
Funderburk of North Carolina elo-
quently declared, “That is why we honor
the ﬂag. It is the tie which binds us
together. We remember that tie every
time we see it draped on the coffin of a
soldier or sailorwho gave his life ﬁght-
ing to preserve our freedoms.”

A ﬂag is more than just a piece of
cloth or a token of a nation. A flag

English is a sec-
ond language.
Pushed by Pat
Buchanan and others, chameleon Sen-
ate Majority Leader Bob Dole has re-

cently declared that English should be .

made the official language of the United
States. One bill to accomplish this,
proposed by Wisconsin Rep. Toby
Roth, would end the federal mandate
for bilingual education and prohibit
bilingual ballots and citizenship cer-

cate and be understood.

To be ﬂuent in more than one lan-
guage is admirable. But spending tax
money to subsidize people’s efforts to
avoid learning English is counterpro-
ductive and wrong.

At a time when Americans can find
less and less that brings us together as
a nation, we must take a stand to ac-
tively defend our nation’s symbols and
language. Our heritage demands it; our
future requires it.

@111; iﬁittg-tum lﬁhi

Censorship reconsidered: Bob Dole,
Time Warner, and ‘gangsta rap’

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

Bob Dole has become only the latest politician to
criticize Hollywood for its practice of wantonly
bombarding America’s youth with violent images

cially uplifting” in its power to shock its audience
into a new appreciation of “reality.”

Madonna, for example, in praise of the new movie
Kids (again, kiddie-pom for the educated), has said
that it effectively communicates “the truth” about
adolescent sexuality, even if the truth does hurt.

One ﬁnal argument raised in defense of gangsta
rap and related artistic forms is that they represent an
outlet for the expression of black rage, by
deﬁnition justiﬁed.

There is at least superﬁcial merit in each of the
arguments mentioned above.

right to vent his frustrations in an artistic form is
certainly correct. But there are right and wrong ways
of doing so.

He can express his indignation and anger in such
a manner as to seek a constructive resolution to the
issues that concern him, or he can fan the ﬂames of
wild hostility in such a manner as to incite both
himself and others to violent and antisocial actions.
It bears repeating that the latter course, in addition to
being imprudent and immoral, is also illegal.

In conclusion, we can only say that the time to
revisit our national and local policies with respect to

Executive Fditnn r.-mg], Bakenpan odenwald and exhortations, as well as a good deal of Of course, the First censorship unquestion-
Associate Fditnr Micha¢|H¢w1ejt borderline pornography. Amendment does afford ably has arrived.

News Editors Anne Aivom, Christine Gamavish The “kiddie-porn” advertisements half-heartedly substantial protections to C ‘ Bob Dole’s recom-
S:(l)lI(:fl1lEIAl:1lge Editor Alex Christensen retracted bfy a major company of late are a familiar pven the most unpopular mendation to Time
5 '07 soniaookwi th‘ f bt ‘ t‘t ' “
   .:2::.:::::.::r.':.;..*::..; In short» there can be no 
Ph°‘°3"'Phy E‘"'°" Betsy Green “Gangsta rap,” of course, is probably a case in protections are limited, guarantee that bombarding there will always be

"°"“‘ ‘“"°°"'5‘5 Phil Fhcklnger point, its lyrics are often an incitement to violence especially in the com- money to be made In the

young people with images of

and indecency. mercialsphere. - marketing of offensive

“' Business Manager Robe“ Nels‘) _Notably, it has been gangsta rap’s disrespectful Asfarasthe argument murder! rape! and theﬂ will materials, so it follows

Advemsing Manager Doug Gm“; plttittuﬁle towarg vtviornen (pargculprly) black wqlirteq) alboul: art’s] ability to ln any way contribute to the that there will always be

,- M n. ‘Co .. An. _ a as raise t _eire.o i era s, ut virtua y a s oc peope into new ' ° ° ° ' those willing to profit by
Ad::n::,::e;aff mposmon '5'  Americans are united in being thoroughly repulsed ways of thinking goes, abolltlon or dlmlnutlon of marketing them.

ci,cu1,,i°,,M,,,,agc, by the general tone of this musical form. Killing no doubt this does often any Of these practices (in- Aways, at 1335;, un-

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letteis, columns, and “My
Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advenising
does not reﬂect the opinions of'The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060

the market?

One need look no further to answer this question
than to the company that is responsible for the most
notorious gangsta rap record labels and artists, Time
Warner. How does Time Warner defend its market-
ing of gangsta rap?

First, of course, by appealing to the First Amend-
ment. This is the line of argument, not surprisingly,
preferred for its simplicity by “artists” like Snoop
Doggy Dog: “The constitution says I can say what
I want, so if you don’t like it, tough.”

(Of course, Mr. Dogg would probably advance
his position more colorfully, but this is a
family newspaper.)

Another line of argument, one beloved in Holly-
wood, is that even artistic degeneracy can be “so-

a problem necessarily
contributes to resolv-
ing it.

Ourabundanceoftalk
shows and psychologists, and our coincident over-
abundance of social problems and pathologies, should
be enough to show that laying bare an issue in a
tactless and direct way is not always a
beneﬁcial practice.

In short, there can be no guarantee that bombard-
ing young people with images of murder, rape, and
theft will in anyway contribute to the abolition or

dimunition of any of these practices (indeed, irratio- '

nal and crude presentations of deviant behavior can
have a decidedly negative impact).
Lastly, the idea that the black man has an intrinsic

negative impact).

s--r,-I--n Williard . . . _ _ _
4 police ofﬁcers, raping women, anddismembering take place. . deed, 1,-rat-zonal and crude til our society takes a
the innocent~—even in this age of iniquity—are not But it is acunous fea- . de . ﬁrmer stand,

The Ring-tum Phi is Published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at ma‘S"S“.°f“m Pa5‘i”‘°5' . . . d rb “”° Rf °“' mf‘t’d°'g'e]S.°°i' ﬁresgntatlozs of dl: 0"’ “a‘i°"» in fa°‘> “as

W h- d . . . . . . . . _ . 0 1 gangsta rap IS unmitigate ga age, as etyt at we 0 en ieve avlor can ave a, c; a long history of regulat-

as mgm an L” Ummsny’ Lmngmn’ v"3'""" F""d'"3 {°' The R”'3 """ H" most Americans would concede, then why is it on that talking openly about y mg and Comromng inde-

cent and inciteful forms
of speech. Reasonable
men have long held that
such controls are not in-
consistent with the protections afforded by our Bill
of Rights.

Rappers might suggest that censorship would
endanger our status as a free society.

But they forget that a free society is not only free;
it is also social. That is, a free society is still a
community that, by definition, operates within the
parameters of a certain set of shared values
and standards.

Unless we find the courage to defend those stan-
dards anew, I fear we are in store for even more
troubled times ahead.

PAGE 6

Sleeping with the fishes

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

It’s been several months since the

.tragic death of my betta ﬁsh, Betta

Theta Pi. With the beginning of the
new school year I thought it might be
good to start off with a brand new fish.
So I wouldn’t get lonely.

Inspired by Kevin Costner’s ﬁlm
Waterworld I wanted to create the most

intricate, expensive ﬁsh environment

possible. I set off for Wal-Mart, where
I purchased not just any ordinary ﬁsh:
I got a balu shark (retail price: $8.97).
I also bought “Schlitz” a new ship-
wreck, as well as a whole bag of

blue gravel.

No ﬁsh would be complete without
a supply of ColorBURST ﬁsh food.
This gourmet ﬁsh food comes in multi-

colored flakes (which smell suspi-

ciously like ground-up dog food). The

bottle was covered by a seal with the
‘words “Sealed for YOUR Protection”
.on top. That made me feel a lot better.

Schlitz’s fancy ﬁsh food made me a

little bit jealous, so I bought myself

some Wurrnz-n-Dirt, a new snack treat
consisting of ground-up Oreo cookies
(the “Dirt”) containing gummi worms
(the “Wumiz”). The label says “The

Best Bait You Ever Ate! !”
They’re right.
This would probably be a good time

to discuss how much I like gummi.
Gummi is the most artiﬁcial food ever
created, with the possible exception of
Cool Whip. There’s something
strangely addictive about this pre-
slimed, artiﬁcially colored, artiﬁcially
ﬂavored, worm-molded congealed
sugar that you would sell your mother
to get more of. Or someone else’s
mother. And the Romans said that if
you eat it with Dirt, you will
become immortal.

Getting back to Schlitz, on the way
back to my room he playfully tried to
bite through his plastic bag. Those baby
sharks! After I placed him in his
Waterworld he swam at about 80 revo-
lutions a minute. I fed him some of his
ColorBURST food (so he would have
more energy), which he brieﬂy slowed
down to snort up. Then Schlitz started
shoving around gravel with his nose.

Normally people look for docility
in a ﬁsh, but for my $8.97 I wanted
something with personality, notably
anger. I brought in friends to watch
Schlitz speak around his shipwreck,
breaking only forthree or four helpings
of ColorBURST.

“Are you sure Schlitz is not going to
outgrow the tank?” someone asked.
Though that would have been cool to
see, it was not meant to be. Schlitz’s
life was cut short.

He had started repeatedly turning
upside down for several days. I just
thought he was doing tricks for my

friends, but soon Schlitz was a ﬂoater;
he was dead. I stared at his tank for
hours; his eyes looked back at me all
cold and shark-like.

In my grief I brieﬂy thought about
using cryogenic technology to preserve
Schlitz’s body (Schlitz Ice) until he
could be brought back to life in the
future. But I pulled myself together
and decided it was time for me to make
that long, hard walk down the hall to
the bathroom. With his limp little body
in my hand (don’t worry — it was
wrapped in paper towels), I stiﬂed a
little tear. After a short eulogy, I dropped
him gently into the toilet bowl. With
two ﬂushes, Schlitz started spinning
around just like he used to. And then he
was gone...

I don’t know if I’ll ever be able to
have another ﬁsh after Schlitz’s death.
But I do know that the blue gravel from
his Waterworld looks like little blue
diamonds if you shine a ﬂashlight on
them. Also, I do know that
ColorBURSTﬁsh food, when sprinkled
on your front door, can ward off evil
spirits. That stuff really stinks! And I
do know that Schlitz’s plastic ship-
wreck will make a great multimedia
addition to any term papers I do this
year on the Spanish Armada. I’ll put
Schlitz on the bibliography page.

Yes, Schlitz taught me a lot in his
short life: appreciate and cherish what
you’ve got, and then when it’s gone,
ﬂush the toilet and move on.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

Parents Weekend

Parents Weekend 1995 will take
place Oct. 27 and 28. Student leaders
whose organizations plan to sponsor
special Parents Weekend events
which will be open to all parents and
students should contact Michelle
Richardson, Student Activities Co-
ordinator, in the University Center
no later than Sept. 29.

Poster Policy

Notices should not be posted on

GENERAL

NOTES

 

any part of the Colonnade including
Newcomb Hall and Tucker Hall. The
Colonnade and Lee Chapel are Na-
tional Historic Landmarks.

Notices shuld not be posted on the
campus walkways.

Notices should not be posted on any
of the white columns of campus build-
ings. Banners and signs forspecial events
may hang from the Co-op columns.

Notices should not be posted on the
Co-op white tables and chairs or on the
teak benches on campus.

Notices should not be posted on the
campus lampposts.

The organization that posts the
notices is responsible for removing
all notices when the event is over.

RACASA

RACASA, a United Way agency,
is seeking volunteers to provide di-
rect victim services and community
education programs. The 33-hour
Volunteer Training Program will be
held from Wednesday, Oct. 4 through
Saturday, Nov. 18. For more infor-
mation, call (540) 463-RAPE.

The Ring-tum

Phi.

It's not just for
breakfast
anymore.

To the editor:

Let me welcome those of you who
are new to the W&L community and
welcome those of you who
are returning. I

The re-gathering of our community
after the summer’s respite is one of the
most special and exciting times in
the year.

LETTERS

Seeing again old friends, making
new friends, beginning a new academic
term with its promise of interesting
courses and teachers and its demands
as well, athletic contests, and parties
too—all these things and many more
make the beginning of an academic
year a very interesting and hopeful
time in our lives.

Mimi and I extend our very best

wishes for a year that fulfills all your
dreams for it, and we look forward to
being with as many of you as possible
before the year ends.

Very sincerely,
John W. Elrod

President
Washington and Lee University

 

\

pagollllo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

   

/

Welcome (Back Students

 

Alain-*Ei>nnia

102 W. Washington St.

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

(703)463-5988

 

\

VISA

 

- BLUE BLAZERS

— BASS SHOES
- DUCKHEADS

- EMBASSY BOXERS

- RAY—BAN S
- RED WING BOOTS
- TUXEDO RENTALS & SALES
— W&L BELTS, TIES, DOG COLLARS

MASTERCARD
463-5383

SINCE 1963

J

STUDENT CHARGE

Harb

A Bistro

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

   

8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

10% off food - with student ID

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
All you can eat $4.99
Thursday -
Friday - Seafood Nite -
Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib,
2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

 

24450 :

  

Welcome Back

from

FINE ITALIAN CUISINE

Students

24 North Main St.
464-5800

    

Welcome Back Students!  

 e ’ 4  \\

 25 N Main St. \.\
 463-6003 
‘x, \, One of Lexington’s Best Bets! ,7 //
‘\ ,,,, H/' “ \_g_/'
/  Full Service - Mens/Women Salon ____ , \
-’  if \-.
fl " Perms, Color, Highlighting w/ cap or foil “  “~.
 Bikini, Leg, Facial, & Therapeutic Waxing 
‘\_\ Facilas, manicures, Pedicures, Acrylic Nails /1’
\ Paul Mitchell Redken Nexxus Aveda 
\\ //
 Walk-ins Welcome /‘ ,_\
  I "3
‘\__/ \ _,/

  

19W

Your Student
Go Hungry

Harbs" Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner

For only $90.00

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
21 Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

  Harbs’

shington St., Lexington, A

. 3
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

24450

    

3

al-

 

~:1

K‘

(V.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

 

Miami at New England 1PM

Pittsburgh at Houston 1PM

Oakland at Washington 1PM
N.Y. Giants at Kansas City 1PM

Detroit at Minnesota 1PM
Carolina at Buffalo 1PM
New Orleans at St. Louis 1PM
Tampa Bay at Cleveland 1PM
Denver at Dallas 4PM
Indianapolis at N.Y. Jets 4PM
Jacksonville at Cincinnati 4PM
Seattle at San Diego 4PM
Atlanta at San Francisco 4PM
Philadelphia at Arizona 8PM

MoNnAv's GAME
Green Bay at Chicago 9PM

 

    

PAGE 7

Defending champion 49ers
search for back-to-back titles

NFC, from page 8

wideout in Dallas, gives Dilfer a go-to receiver. Hardy
Nickerson anchors the defense at linebacker. With the best
talent they have had in a long time, the Bucs should go from
5-11 to 6-10 to... 7-9.

NFC WEST:

San Francisco: You can book this one. Sure, no-name
Derek Loville will be running the ball, but it never really
matters who the 49ers plug into their system. They still win.
It’s not that talent doesn’t count for something. Look up
Steve Young and Jerry Rice. The Niners
may end up losing comerback Deion Sand-

sunken to such depths that even Jim Everett becomes a
winner when he leaves town. Chris Miller spent more time
last year auditioning for the cast of M *A "‘S*H* then he did
throwing passes. If he can keep himself upright for most of
the year behind the Rams’ pathetic offensive line, he'll be
able to connect with Isaac Bruce, a wideout with some
major talent. But no doubt the newly fed-up fans in St. bouis
will soon be calling for Miller to hand off to Jerome Bettis
and get the heck out of the way. 5-II.

Carolina: Don’t be surprised if the expansion Panthers

ﬁnish ahead of the Rams in their inaugural season. For an
expansion team, Carolina really is not that bad. The
Panthers have a gritty starting quarterback in Frank Reich
and a solid kicker in John Kasay. However, coach Dom
Capers’ ball-control attack needs a dependable running

back, which isn't in Randy Baldwin's

ers, but there are still adequate players
around on defense, namely Dana
Stubblefield, Ken Norton, Jr., and Merton
Hanks. It will be more interesting to see
if the Niners can adequately replace the
losses of the offensive and defensive co-
ordinators from last year, Mike Shanahan
and Ray Rhodes. 13-3, division winner.

Atlanta: This team used to be fun to
watch when Deion Sanders and coach
Jeny Glanville were around. Now the
Falcons look like just another mediocre
franchise playing in a boring dome. At-
lanta is now the run-and-shoot offense’s
last stand, and it has the talent to effec-
tively operate it with quarterback Jeff
George, and wide receivers Terance
Mathis and Eric Metcalf. Now if they can
patch together a pass defense, the Falcons
will once again be raising some excite-
ment down in Georgia. 8-8.

New Orleans: In the past, the Saints
were very predictable. Stick it down
around the 25-yard line, have Morten
Andersen kick a ﬁeld goal, and watch the

 

Steve Young attempts to
lead the 49ers back to
the promisedland in '95.

resume, at least not yet. Capers built
the swarming Steel Trap defense in
Pittsburgh, and given a few years,
will do similarly in Charlotte. He
already has a seasoned veteran leader
in linebacker Sam Mills. Carolina will
hang around in plenty of games, and
a four or ﬁve-win season would be a
terriﬁc ﬁrst-yearaccomplishment. 4-
12.

In the end, it will boil down to
what it has in the NFC for the last
three years: a Dallas vs. San Fran-
cisco NFC Championship Game.
Unless, of course, there is a major
upset. That seems unlikely because
there are not any other teams near the
plateau occupied by the league's top
two model organizations.

Atlanta and Arizona are too incon-
sistent to stay with the Cowboys and
49ers over the course of the season,
and Philadelphia has a lot of question
marks, as well as a brand-new staff.

If there is a challenge, it likely will
come from a Central Division team,

defense do the rest. Now, those are no
longer possible. Andersen departed for
the archrival Falcons, and the defense turned as soft as
gumbo. So, for the Saints to regain their winning ways, they
will need to get another productive season out of the offense,
and (gulp) quarterback Jim Everett. 8-8.

St. Louis: No matter where they are located, this tough-
luck franchise can’t get anything to go right. After serving
as bridesmaids for the 49ers in the late ‘80s, the Rams have

all of which play well at home. De-
troit has Barry Sanders and an offense

that can put up some points. Chicago comes to mind with
its rock-solid defense. And surely the Niners and Cowboys
have found more pleasant places to play in January than a
frostbitten, windswept Soldier Field, where the fans are
swilling beer and bellowing, "Da Bears!"

Coming next week: ‘An analysis of the AFC.

Wnte for The Ring-tum Phi Sports Page:
If Interested, call Scott at the Phi afﬂce.

  9

GENERALS’ UPCOMING HOME
SCHEDULE 9/8 - 9/14

Saturday, 9/9 Water Polo in W&LFall
Classic

Wednesday, 9/13 Men's soccer vs.
Marymount, 4:00 PM
Thursday, 9/14 Women's soccer vs.

\ Mary Baldwin, 4:30 PM

W N
N
AFC American League
East W L PCT East W L PCT GB
Miami 1 0 1.000 Boston 76 45 .628 ---
New England 1 0 1.000 N.Y. Yankees 61 61 .500 15.5
Buffalo 0 1 .000 Baltimore 57 65 .467 19.5
Indianapolis 0 1 .000 Toronto 51 71 .418 25.5
N.Y. Jets 0 1 .000 Detroit 50 71 .413 26
Central Central
Cincinnati 1 0 1.000 Cleveland 84 37 .694 ---
Houston 1 0 1.000 Kansas City 62 59 .512 22
Pittsburgh 1 0 1.000 Milwaukee 59 63 .484 25.5
Cleveland 0 1 .000 Chicago W.S. 56 64 .467 27.5
Jacksonville 0 1 .000 Minnesota 46 74 .383 37.5
West West
Denver 1 0 1.000 California 68 55 .553 ---
Kansas City 1 0 1.000 Seattle 62 60 .508 5.5
Oakland 1 0 1.000 Texas 60 62 .492 7.5
San Diego 0 1 .000 Oakland 59 64 .480 9
Seattle 0 1 .000
NFC National League
East ‘w L PCT East w L PCT GB
Dallas 1 0 1.000 Atlanta 78 44 .639 ---
Washington 1 0 1.000 Philadelphia 62 61 .504 16
Arizona 0 1 .000 Montreal 59 63 .484 18.5
N.Y. Giants 0 1 .000 Florida 55 65 .458 22
Philadelphia 0 1 .000 N.Y. Mets 53 68 .438 24
Central Central
Chicago 1 0 1.000 Cincinnati 75 46 .620 ---
Tampa Bay 1 0 1.000 Houston 62 60 .508 13.5
Detroit 0 1 .000 Chicago 61 60 .504 14
Green Bay ’ 0 1 .000 Pittsburgh 51 70 .421 24
Minnesota 0 1 .000 St. Louis 50 72 .410 25.5
West West
Atlanta 1 0 1.000 Colorado 63 58 .521 ---
San Francisco 1 0 1.000 Los Angeles 64 59 .520 ---
St. Louis 1 0 1.000 San Diego 60 61 .496 3
Carolina 0 1 .000 San Francisco 58 64 .475 5.5
New Orleans 0 1 .000
WILD CARD RACES:
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS AL
(HOME TEAM IN CAPS)
Kansas City 62 59 .512 ---
ATLANTA 23, Carolina 20 (OT) Seattle 62 60 .508 0.5
Cincinnati 24, INDIANAPOLIS 21 (OT) N.Y Yankees 61 61 .500 1.5
Houston 10, JACKSONVILLE 3 Texas 60 62 .492 2.5
NEW ENGLAND 17, Cleveland 14 Milwaukee 59 63 .484 3.5
St. Louis 17, GREEN BAY 14 Oakland I 59 64 .480 4
Tampa Bay 21, PHILADELPHIA 6 Baltimore 57 65 .467 5.5
San Francisco 24, NEW ORLEANS 22 Chicago W.S. 56 64 .467 5.5
PITTSBURGH 23, Detroit 20
MIAMI 52, N.Y. Jets 14
WASHINGTON 27, Arizona 7 NL
CHICAGO 31, Minnesota 14
Kansas City 34, SEATTLE -10 Los Angeles ' 64 59 .520 ---
OAKLAND 17, San Diego 7 Houston 62 60 .508 1.5
DENVER 22, Buffalo 7 Philadelphia 62 61 .504 2
Dallas 35, N.Y. GIANTS 0 (Mon.) Chicago C. 61 60 .504 2
San Diego 60 61 .496 3
Montreal 59 63 .484 4.5
SUN1)AY's GAMES San Francisco 58 64 .475 5.5
Florida 55 65 .458 7.5_

THURSDAY'S GAMES:
NL
Atlanta 6, FLORIDA 3 (completion of
suspended game)

Atlanta at Florida, 2nd game, night

San Diego at St. Louis, night

AL
Seattle at Cleveland, night
Chicago W.S. at Texas, night

THIS WEEKEND's GAMES:
Baltimore at Cleveland, Fri-Sun
Boston at N.Y. Yankees, Fri-Sun
Detroit at Toronto, Fri-Mon
Texas at Milwaukee, Fri-Sun
Chicago W.S. at Oakland, Fri-Sun
Kansas City at Seattle, Fri-Sun
Minnesota at California, Fri-Sun

Atlanta at Florida, Fri-Sun

San Francisco at Chicago C., Fri-Sun
Cincinnati at Colorado, Fri-Sun
Houston at Philadelphia, Fri-Sun
Los Angeles at Pittsburgh, Fri-Sun
San Diego at St. Louis, Fri-Sun

N.Y. Mets at Montreal, Fri-Mon J

THE PHOENIX

September Music

20 South Randolph Street

Wednesday Thursday

Friday

’ ' 464-5011
Saturday

Se t. 6
R G
Project

Sept. 7
Karaoke

Sept. 8
Red Weather

Se t. 9
Miller rothers
Band

Se t. 13
J.
Michelle

Sept. 14
Karaoke

Sept. 15
Alter Ego

 

Sept. 16
Fatty Lumpkin &

LARGEST STUDENT TRAVEL
PLANNER on East Coast looking for
Campus Rep to promote Kodak
SPRING BREAK trips “ ”
lowest package prices and best incen-
tives. Youhandle the sales...we handle
the bookkeeping. Cancun, 4 Nassau,
Jamaica, S. Padre, Orlando & Key
West. EARN BIG $33 AND/OR
FREE TRIP(S)...GREAT FOR RE-

Lovehogs

SUME!!! CALL 1-800-222-4432

, wax: C-xesmxxx xima,
QBQQ-E, was Qkssisg

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050
Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m.

  
  
 

- 5‘ p.m.

 

4 Bedroom 7/z427¢E2&?’0.4’5
House for Ren 7mm W, 54%,,

Rt. 60 E
463-5383

 

O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
‘O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O

/9 S. zmzaaé 51!.
463-2742

  

tjj

 

  
  

Last Week:

There were no athletic events
scheduled as all the W&L sports
teams continued to practice.

PAGE 8

   
  
 

‘ er’ 

 

Ifi’yo#.:<.>f<'>'1<,i 
“ are

    
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
 

V the-field‘ex’plaits.,:,Geo:ge
Steiabrlenner  back’ at g V
it again in New.,Y’ ,_I_ie?“ "

 ‘aiiowed’ ’ Darryl 

ﬁsh?” Steuben? td‘§<>
it t¢af!I_3iIet1_dy iiifeeted
eight,—,time,.druggief A
Howe. Qeorgetlieu traded‘
forpitcherDavidCea
stagger Rube_n.Si_e'i1'_
‘ vwatched» as the Y

Iééetegenﬂlt/1ici€c‘3'Ii*I_ . .

Mdiedofcancershortiyaﬁet‘ ‘

jreceiviiighis much-hyped
M

  
  
    
     

I on August: 10, as fans
_ out -their»-displeasure g by.
‘ petting senate with their

     

      
  
   
  
  
   

capture» the‘T1‘99 ' ' "
-Championship; _Cc‘,_irey.;=:-.
Yaviri, often laheie8C“th ‘
bes§.p1ay¢zW¢rett‘ _

  

* Mil-re”: _
McNeeley tiavest g A ‘
who had ‘paid.'rid1cuteus
sums to watch the;’ﬁ'glit.,. 

. were ‘angered when I
MeNeeley,’s . ’ trainers"
stopped the fight inidwayg .
throughi the"ﬁtst‘rouri.d. _
iron Miitestili iooksteugh: 

j at‘ter,:his jail At‘ “

  
    

Considering;;.c'ont_r ,
versy _foliowsI”I."yson, V

around like-:a_n;3g;,_¢r,.the ‘
upcoming yearpromises 
to offer its reach, excite-.=.,»

merit as the summer did. ?

S

(J11: 'iRt1tg-tum iﬂlit  

PORTS

I

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Defensive tackle scouted by NFL

By Scorr BOOKWALTER ,
Phi Sports Editor

Look out NFL, here comes
Robert Hull.

Well, maybe not so quick.
After all, W&L isn’t known for
being an NFL prep factory.

Still, there was considerable
excitement recently when sev-
eral pro scouts showed up at a
Generals practice to watch the
senior All-American defensive
tackle Hull.

Head coach Frank Miriello
said that scouts mostly from the
east coast NFL teams, such as the
Washington Redskins, Philadel-
phia Eagles, and New York Gi-
ants, were present.

“It was a routine check,” ex-
plained Miriello, who added that
the scouts were in the area to
inspect players from James Madi-
son and VMI as well.

“They were aware of him be-
cause he was named the preseason
Divisionlll Defensive Player of
the Year,” Miriello said.

Hull was excited over the
scouts coming to visit him.

“It’s a great honor to be con-
sidered,” he said.

“Robert is an outstanding foot-
ball player,” Miriello added. “He
is so intense, has a tremendous
work ethic, and loves football.”

All-American DT Robert Hull has been scouted by
the pros, but is doubtful about trying out soon.

However, both Hull and
Miriello express doubt that Hull
will be trying out for the NFL in
the near future.

“He doesn’t quite have the
size that the scouts are looking
for,” cautioned Miriello. “That
level is big business.”

In the next few years, Hull
won’t be playing much football;
he will be playing with teeth.

“My immediate goal is that
I’m looking to get into a dental
school,” Hull said.

“'I‘hat’s looking pretty opti-
mistic,” he added.

The senior has been under
immense pressure to lead the Gen-
erals’ defense in 1995 after ﬁn-
ishing the 1994 season with a
team-high 106 tackles, seven
quarterback sacks, and four
forced fumbles.

In May, he was selected pre-
season Division III Defensive
Player of the Year by The Sport-
ing News.

“It was surprising (to be
named), considering we’re not a
nationally-ranked team,” re-
marked Hull.

Miriello feels Hull will have a
tremendous impact this fall on
not just the defense, but on the
entire team.

“Robert has the capability of
elevating people around him,”
the coach mentioned.

“He’s finally coming to the
realization that he has that
impact.”

Hull’s quest for another All-
American season and to lead the
Generals back to the top of the
division begins tomorrow, when
Washington and Lee visits Emory
and Henry.

The Wasps stung the Gener-
als in last year’s opener at Wilson
Field, 23-2.

“Our goal as a team is to win
the ODAC,” Hull said. “Hope-
fully, we can start it off with a
win against Emory and Henry.”

San Francisco, Dallas lead
charge as NFL kicks off season

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

The advent of a new school year means two things: the beginning
of autumn and the start of another NFL football season.

The only league without a recent work stoppage, the NFL will
attempt to follow up on an exciting 1994 season. Last year, the San
Francisco 49ers ﬁnally knocked off the Dallas Cowboys in the NFC
title game, and went on to destroy the San Diego Chargers in the
Super Bowl, 49-26.

Despite the loss of halfback Ricky Watters and possibly comerback
Deion Sanders, the defending champion 49ers are still the team to
beat in 1995.

This year also marks the birth of two new teams, the Carolina
Panthers and the Jacksonville Jaguars. The Panthers will play in the
NFC West (yeah, ﬁgure it out), while the Jaguars will compete in the
AFC Central. Both teams will hope to have more success than their
expansion predecessors, the Tampa Bay Bucs, and the Seattle
Seahawks. Tampa Bay and Seattle both joined the league in 1976,
and neither have played in a Super Bowl as of yet.

In this first of a two-part series, I’ll look at how the NFC stacks up,
and take a guess on how each team should finish.

much as he likes Jimmy Johnson. The defense, with the likes of Eric
Swann, Seth Joyner, and Clyde Simmons, will once again wreak
havoc on opponents’ offenses. Rookie wide receiver Frank Sanders
could surprise on offense, as well as newly-acquired Rob Moore.
Dave Krieg, who has been around long enough to hand off to Red
Grange, isn’t exactly the quarterback of Arizona’s future. 8-8, wild
card.

N.Y. Giants: The Giants were the NFL’s Jekyll-and-Hyde team
in 1994. They lost seven straight, then won their last six to ﬁnish 9-
7. Coach Dan Reeves has built a reliable defense in his two-year
tenure. The offense, without an established receiver, is another story.
Herschel Walker and Rodney Hampton do key a potentially strong
ground game. Now if quarterback Dave Brown spends more time on
the ﬁeld than he does in the training room this year, expect the Giants
to be in the midst of the playoff hunt. 8-8.

Washington: It seems the Redskins have turned into football’s
version of the New York Mets. Despite the constant infusion of
young prospects, the rebuilding program is stuck in neutral. With a
capable backup in Gus Frerotte, highly-touted quarterback Heath
Shuler is running low on time and chances. Linebacker Ken Harvey
was a huge success last year in his first season with the 'Skins, but he'll
need some help from his friends. 5-II.

NFC CENTRAL:

    

Photo by Mary Butkus, Associated Press

The L. A. Rams’ moving van enters St. Louis, where the Rams will make their
new home. Their former neighbors, the Raiders, also vacated Los Angeles.

Detroit: There is never a
favorite in this wacky division.
Every year, each team takes
turns beating one another, and
with the exception of Tampa
Bay, usually ﬁnishes around
.500. Detroit doesn’t look par-
ticularly dominant, but it is hard
to bet against a gamebreaking
runner like Barry Sanders. Wide
receiver Herman Moore has
turned into one of the NFL’s
elite, unlike quarterback Scott
Mitchell, who was the NFL’s
highest-paid free agent bust of
the yearin 1994. 10-6, division
winner. -

Chicago: Funny, but doesn’t
Mike Ditka still coach this team?
The Bears’ stiﬂing defense and
crank-it—out offense are trade-
marks of the Ditka years. Nei-
ther Erik Kramer or Steve Walsh
are the type of quarterbacks
likely to make coach Dave
Wannstedt’s Bears do the Super
Bowl Shufﬂe. With the ex-
pected defensive dominance, if

NFC EAST:

Dallas: The Cowboys still reign over this division, although they
have slipped a bit with some free agent losses, particularly on
defense, as well as the never-ending distractions provided by owner
Jerry Jones and coach Barry Switzer. The defense still has an
imposing line with the likes of Charles Haley, who once again
reneged on his retirement plans, Russell Maryland, and of course, the
famous football goat, Leon Lett. With Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith,
and Michael Irvin still in town on offense, Dallas would have to fall
flat for the rest of the division to catch up. Predicted record: I I -
5, division winner.

Philadelphia: As usual, Philly’s fortunes rest with quarterback
Randall Cunningham. If Randall stays healthy and productive the
entire season for a change, the Eagles can soar into the playoffs.
Randall will have the benefit of offensive weapons such as Ricky
Watters and wide receiver Fred Barnett to help him. The acquisition
of Gary Anderson gives the Eagles an excellent kicker. New coach
Ray Rhodes will need to establish a solid defense, now that Buddy
Ryan took half of it to Arizona, and Eric Allen left for the Saints, in
order to bury the memory of last season’s inexplicable collapse, and
contend for the playoffs in 1995. 9-7, wild card.

Arizona: It is scary to think what Arizona could accomplish if it
ever found an offense. Coach Buddy Ryan likes offense about as

rookie halfoack Rashaan Salaam
does half of what he did at Colorado, the Bears will be in business.
9-7, wild card.

Green Bay: Brett Favre should sue for nonsupport. After the
quarterback finally began performing consistently, the Packers re-
leased superstar wide receiver Sterling Sharpe, and will hinge its
running game on...Edgar Bennett. With the loss of Bryce Paup to
Buffalo, Reggie White and the rest of his defensive comrades will
need to have an outstanding season to keep the Pack aﬂoat. 8-8.

Minnesota: During the late ‘80s and early ‘90s, the Vikings
perennially underachieved. Now they perennially overachieve. Cris
Carter shattered the NFL single-season receptions record with 122 in
1994, and defensive tackle John Randle anchors a potent run defense.
Wide receiver David Palmer, a disappointment last year, has blos-
somed into a dangerous return man. Quarterback Warren Moon is
about 55, and there’s not much of a running game. Still, don’t be
shocked if the Vikes find a way to capture the division. They were
not favored last season, but still won the Central, anyway. 7-9.

Tampa Bay: This could be the year that west Florida has been
waiting for. A Super Bowl? No. A playoff appearance? Probably
not. No, it could be the Bucs’ first single-digit loss season since 1982.
The pieces are in place with potential superstars Errict Rhett and
Trent Dilfer. Wide receiver Alvin Harper, who was a big-play

up See NFC, page 7

This Week:

VOLLKYBAIJ. - Sat. at Christopher Newport, 12 Noon.

Msocczn - Sat. at Shenandoah, 3:00 PM
Wed. vs. Maryrnuunt, 4:00 PM

WSoccm-

Sat. and Sun. at Kean Toumnment.

Thurs. vs. Mary Baldwin, 4:30 PM

Foovnm.i.-

Sat. at Emory and Henry, 1:30 PM

M, WCnoss COUNTRY - Sat. at Lebanon Valley Invitational
WATER Pow - Sat. and Sun. in W&L Fall Classic

SEPTEMBER 8, 1995

Soccer returns
top six scorers

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

With eight starters returning,
the Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team has plenty of cause
for excitement over the upcom-
ing season. '

W&L captured ﬁve games
out of six at one point late last
year to finish strongly at 7-7-2, a
decisive improvement over a 5-
13 log in 1993.

The Generals fell in the first
round of the ODAC tournament
at Randolph-Macon by a count
of 4-0.

Despite the losses of four
seniors to graduation, the fact
that six of the leading scorers
from 1994 are returning leads to
increased expectations.

The Generals lost two-time
captain midfielder Alan
Christensen, midﬁelder Kevin
Hocking, who notched three
goals and one assist during his
senior season, forward Jud
Allen, and back Paul Wright.

“We miss them (the graduat-
ing seniors),” head coach Rolf
Piranian said, “but we’re just as
good without them.”

Players such as senior Jeb
Wofford illustrate that point.

The tri—captain Wofford was
W&L’s leading scorer last year,
racking up seven goals and four
assists from his position at
midﬁeld.

These accomplishments
earned him a place on the all-
ODAC second team.

He will be joined at the
midfield spot by fellow senior
Chad Dobbins, who has started
every contest the last two years.

Sophomore Gordon Meeker
will key the Generals’ offense
up front.

Meeker posted an outstand-
ing freshman season by scoring
four goals and assisting twice.
Two of his four goals proved to
be game-winners.

Senior forward Shag Drewry

equaled Meeker’s ‘94 campaign
with four goals and two assists of

his own. _ _ _
However, due to rehabilitation

from knee surgery, W&L will not
be able to count on Drewry’s ser-
vices for the early part of the
season.

Senior tri—captain Fernando
Bravo will provide leadership at
forward, while juniors Dave Com-
ing and Bill Gill will be relied on
for extra scoring punch.

The Generals should be excel-
lent defensively, particularly be-
cause of the experience of junior
Bill Sigler, who will start for the
third straight season.

Sophomore Michael Germain
is also back after an impressive
first year in which he started ev-
ery game but one in the backﬁeld.

Also counted on for contribu-
tions on the defensive end are
junior Mike Matechak, who starts
at marking back this year, sopho-
more Colin Connolly, who also
played excellently in his first sea-
son, and incoming freshman
Mikel Parker.

Junior tri—captain Anthony
Mazzerelli, with 76 saves in 1994,
is solid at goalie. A

Piranian will emphasize the
team concept even more through-
out the autumn.

“I can’t single out anybody in
particular,” he mentioned.

‘‘I just look for a good eleven-
man effort each game.”

The Generals ‘kick off their
season tomorrow with a trip to
Shenandoah before returning
home on Wednesday afternoon to
host Marymount.

“I expect two very difﬁcult
games,” Piranian commented.
“We’d like to come up with the
wins, but they would probably be
ugly winsbecausewe’re stillcom-
ing together.”

Despite the increased pressure
to improve even more this season
with a load of talent returning to
the ﬁeld, Piranian keeps his phi-
losophy simple.

“We just want to have fun and
win some games.”

  

L-

 

