*

=

K55 —
0-20
2
VOLUME 87, NO.-26

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Che King-tum Phi

MAY 12, 1988

 

National tennis tournament comes to W&

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

After almost nine months of prep-
aration, W&L is ready to play host to
the Division III Men’s National Ten-
nis Championships beginning Sunday,
May 15 and running through to May
22.

The championship is also the second
athletic event—the first being the Lee-
Jackson Lacrosse Classic on April
30—in which the university will hold
an event that provides an opportunity
for the students and the Lexington
community to come together.

According to Tournament Director
Gary Franke, preparations for the
tournament began as early as last Sep-
tember.

“‘We submitted our budget to the
NCAA last May,”” said Franke, who
is also the head coach of the men’s
tennis team that is seeded No. 2 in the
championships. ‘‘We were then selec-
ted as the site. The NCAA then goes

over the budget and we receive back
the approved budget from the NCAA.
When I got back [to school] in Sep-
tember, I started working on this tour-
nament.”’

Franke said most of the work went
into organizing and obtaining or ‘‘hus-
tling’’ volunteers for the several sub-
committees that needed to be formed.
Each subcommittee is responsible for
a certain part of the tournament.
Franke set up individual subcommit-
tees for housing, information, regis-
tration, meals, site preparation and
maintenance, public relations, tro-
phies, hospitality, printing, court dec-
orations and T-shirts.

**Coach Franke is doing most of the
work,”’ said W&L Athletic Director
Bill McHenry. ‘‘He deserves all the
credit. He’s doing most of the leg
work.”

In its preparations the university
had both the lower and upper courts
resurfaced. The lower courts were
completed last fall, but, because of the

onset of cold weather, the work on the
upper courts was delayed until this
spring.

Franke, however, raised the money
for the 14 new umpire chairs. In 1985,
when W&L also played host to the
tournament, platforms were used in-
stead of umpire chairs. By calling
former tennis players, alumni and
coaches of W&L, Franke was able to
secure enough money to pay for the
new chairs.

Unlike the Lee-Jackson Classic,
which was billed as a community- uni-
fying event, the tennis championship
is not being labeled as an effort to
bring Lexington and the university
together. This does not mean that
community attendance and support is
not welcome.

“I think there’s some real tennis
fans that will come out,’’ said
McHenry. ‘‘I don’t think John Q.
Public will be interested, but if you

C) See Tennis, page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Junior Bobby Matthews in action earlier this year.

Sports Photo

Contact sponsors Abrams’ speech in Lee Chapel tonight

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Elliott Abrams, the U.S. assistant
secretary of state for inter-American
affairs and a key figure in last sum-
mer’s Iran-Contra hearings, will
speak on U.S. policy toward Central
America tonight at 7:30 in Lee
Chapel.

Abrams is expected to discuss U.S.
foreign policy and the narcotics trade
in Latin America and the Carribean,
according to a State Department
spokeswoman.

The Reagan administration’s point

man on the Contra aid issue since July
of 1985, Abrams has made frequent
appearances before congressional
committees looking into U.S. support
of the Nicaraguan Resistance.

Abrams was also criticized by the
report of the Tower Commission on
the Iran-Contra affair. The report said
Abrams and Lt. Col. Oliver North
were involved in efforts to open up a
southern front in the war in Nicaragua
at a time when official U.S. in-
volvement was illegal, according to
the Los Angeles Times.

Testifying in June before the con-
gressional committees investigating
the Iran-Contra affair, Abrams admit-

ted to having misled Congress in ear-
lier testimony about Contra fundrais-
ing activities and to making false
statements about the efforts of North,
according to the Washington Post.

Abrams told Congress he made ‘‘a
great mistake’’ when he misled the
Senate Select Committee on Intel-
ligence six months earlier by failing to
disclose his role in the solicitation of
$10 million for the Contras from the
nation of Brunei.

Abrams said he was ‘‘caught in a
bind’’ because he did not have the
permission of Secretary of State
George Schultz to discuss the matter.

In other testimony, Abrams went

Sororities may rush here
during Winter Term 1989

By Pat Lopes™
Staff Reporter

 

Senior, junior and sophomore
women may face a sorority rush dur-
ing the 1989 Winter Term, when local
chapters of national sororities may be
established at W&L.

According to Leroy C. Atkins, as-
sociate dean of student, a winter rush
is part of a recently drafted schedule
of events leading to the founding of
sororities on this campus.

Local alumnae and representatives
of nationally based sororities would
conduct rush.

Spring rush for women in the
freshman class would follow the win-
ter rush. The spring rush would be
conducted by women who joined the
sororities during the winter.

Rushes are part of a tentative sched-
ule of events.

“All of this is hypothetical, alth-
ough it is reasonable to assume that 95
women would be enough to form a
group of a few sororities,’’ Atkins
said.

The 95 women are those who signed
a survey recently submitted to the ad-
ministration. Thirty-two juniors, 32
sophomores and 31 freshmen agreed
that they were strongly interested and
would participate in a sorority system.

The survey submission does not
guarantee that W&L sororities will be
established. It did prompt the adminis-
tration to seriously consider sorori-
ties. The establishment of a sorority
advisory committee of faculty, admin-
istration and students is planned.

Choosing specific sororities would
be one of the first responsibilities of
the committee. Fifteen national organ-
izations have already expressed inter-
est in W&L. Atkins said question-
naires will be sent to all 26 national
sororities.

The advisory committee will review
the questionnaires, and invite six sor-
orities to make presentations at W&L.
The committee will shoot for three
final choices.

The committee's decisions would be
the first material actions on the soror-
ity question since women expressed
interest in the Greek system three
years ago. This year, the survey final-
ly kicked the administration into ac-
tion.

The group that compiled the survey
was driven by the beneficial aspects of
national sororities. Junior Erin Cosby,
who helped collect signatures, said
sororities are more than a social out-
let.

Sororities will fill the deficit of
leadership opportunities for women at
W&L, said Cosby. She said that in
addition to campus leadership posi-
tions open to everyone, men also have
an abundance of opportunities offered
by the fraternity system. Women, on

the other hand, are offered only 11

Trident positions, for 400 students.

Cosby also pointed out that sorori-
ties will provide scholarships and
alumni networking, which will help
secure jobs for members after gradua-
tion. The benefits of sororities will
come at a cost to women. Cosby esti-
mated $100 pledge dues and $300
yearly dues.

Despite the benefits there is strong
opposition to the establishment of sor-
orities at this time.

“I simply want the university and
the interested women not to rush into
something that will put us right where
we are with the fraternities. We still
have lessons to learn from that situa-
tion,’’ said Christopher de Movellan,
incoming EC President.

de Movellan is concerned with the
physical, as well as spiritual, state of
fraternity houses. Unresolved rush
and pledge controversy also prompted
him to oppose sororities at this time in
speeches to President John D. Wilson,
the Alumni Board and the faculty.

Concerning actual houses, Cosby
said, ‘‘Sororities are not fraternities.
The houses are not an essential part of
the sorority system ... Auburn doesn’t
have houses but they have a strong
sorority system.’’ She said alcohol is
not normally allowed in sorority
houses.

Purchasing houses won't even be
considered for three or four years,
Atkins says. The Women’s Center and
the Gaines Gate House would be used
for meetings.

‘‘National sororities provide a lot
more counseling,’’ he added.

“*There wouldn’t be that kind of un-
restrained adolescent behavior,’’ he
said, referring to fraternity houses.

Destroying class unity is also a chief
concern. ‘‘] am not sure that there are
enough options open to women to
keep sororities from doing the same
thing to the women that the fraternities
have done to the men. Namely, sorori-
ties may begin to separate the women
into different factions before they
have some class unity,”’ de Movellan
said.

“If you look at sororities, the whole
idea behind them is to take a large
group of women and break them down
into smaller units,’’ said Freshman
Mary Hampson. ‘‘The sheer fact that
this issue is causing so much tension
and division among the W&L women
should be an indication that it would
not be a unifying factor for a while un-
til there’s more agreement. ”’

Hampson, Blair Simmons and Si-
mone Schonenberger, also freshmen,
spoke to Wilson and Kenneth Ruscio,
assistant dean of students, concerning
sororities at W&L. Alienation of indi-
vidual women is another of their con-
cerns.

“Once you create a structure to be

in, you create one to be out_of,”’ said
Hampson. She is concerned about
women who are not accepted into a
sorority, despite efforts to join one.

Although W&L men have been
dealing with this dilemma for years,
Hampson feels being left out will be
especially severe for women. They
will have to deal with feelings of rejec-
tion from women. In addition, these
women will have to adjust to a pre-
dominantly male school, which has
just recently become co-ed .

“I’m not opposed to sororities, I’m
opposed to sororities now,’’ Hampton
said. She suggests that more women
get involved in sports, SAC, Amnesty
International, publications and other
campus activities.

Until sororities are established,
these activities will provide leadership
opportunities for women, said Hamp-
ton. These activities promote unity
within each class and _ between
different classes of women. Also, the
organizations often include all stu-
dents who express interest in them, in
addition to promoting relations be-
tween men and women.

de Movellan’s and Hampton's
efforts to suspend the founding of sor-
orities will not stop the schedule
already being implemented; but, their
efforts have cautioned the administra-
tion. \

‘*The effect that they are having is
to make sure the process goes slowly
and carefully,’’ said Atkins.

**When you got 100 that want soror-
ities, 100 that don’t and another 200
that aren’t sure, what do you think? If
you got enough people that are inter-
ested they should have that opportun-
ity,’” he said.

The W&L community outside of the
administrative offices have been left in
the dark concerning sororities. Mary
Alice McMorrow and Vanessa Hart-
man, both freshmen dorm counselors,
were concerned with the rumors ‘‘fly-
ing around”’ the dorms.

They spoke with Wilson, Ruscio,
Dean of Students Lewis John and
several EC representatives. Both
women feel that there is a need for a
general information meeting for
women, similar to the meeting held
during the 1987 Winter Term.

Explanations of eating clubs, local
sororities and national sororities were
presented to the women. Women in
the freshmen class, some women in
the upperclasses, and most men were
unable to attend the meeting. Rumors
and confusion circulating in the stu-
dent body are partially based on a lack
of information about these organiza-
tions.

‘Questions about how it would start
are small compared to what it would
be in the long run,’’ said McMorrow.
**There are a lot of other questions
that people are not well informed
about.”’

out of his way to distance himself
from private efforts to raise money for
the Contras, according to the Post.
But Abrams did admit to meeting with
a representative from Brunei in Lon-
don in August of 1986 and offering the
‘‘gratitude’’ of the president and se-
cretary of state in exchange for a con-
tribution of $10 million to the Con-
tras.

Abrams also testified that Schultz
had asked him to ‘*monitor’’ North in
Sept. of 1985. However, he told the
Iran-Contra committees he had since
reported incorrect information to
Congress because he had failed to get
all the facts on fundraising and supply

 

From Staff Reports

 

“‘Human Rights Now!”’ will be
the emphasis of a week-long series
of events planned by W&L’s stu-
dent chapter of Amnesty Interna-
tional May 16-21.

The week of programs is being
held in conjunction with Amnesty
International’s ‘*Human_ Rights
Now!”’ campaign, a worldwide
effort to support the rights set forth
in the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, which the United
Nations General Assembly adopted
40 years ago.

Kicking off ‘‘Human_ Rights
Now!”’ week will be a panel dis-
cussion Monday at 7:30 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium. Participating
in the panel will be the Rt. Rev.
Benoni Ogwal, the exiled bishop of
northern Uganda and current
bishop-in-residence in Lexington;
Alice Ogwal; the Rev. Neville Ri-
chardson, a member of the reli-
gious studies department at the
University of Natal in Pietermar-
itzburg, South Africa, and a visit-
ing professor of religion at W&L;
and Carleen Richardson. The four
will discuss human rights abuses in

 

efforts from North.

The admission by Abrams that he
had misled Congress was followed by
calls for his resignation from more
than 120 House Democrats and
several Senators and prompted Con-
necticut Sen. Christopher Dodd,
chairman of a Senate Foreign Re-
lations subcommittee that handles La-
tin-American affairs, to bar Abrams
from testifying before his panel, ac-
cording to the New York Times.

‘*There is a price to pay for mislead-
ing Congress,’ Dodd told the Times.

Abrams was not always decried by
members of Congress. In 1975, just

RL IE OI LEE EOE I ET I TT ESE LIED IO

‘Human Rights Now!’ week
will feature an outdoor concert

their respective countries.

On Tuesday, May 17, at 7:30
p.m. in Room 327 of the Com-
merce School, a second panel dis-
cussion will feature David Parker,
assistant professor of history; Gre-
gory Stanton, assistant professor of
law; and Gordon Bowen, a mem-
ber of the political science depart-
ment at Mary Baldwin College.
Parker and Bowen will speak about
human rights abuses in Latin
America, while Stanton will ad-
dress the need to develop organiza-
tions to combat such abuses.

The W&L chapter of Amnesty
International will hold an open
meeting Thursday, May 19, at 7
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center in the University Center.
The purpose of the meeting will be
to disseminate information about
specific human rights abuses that
occur in various countries
throughout the world, and to gen-

erate letters protesting those
abuses.
‘‘Human Rights Now!’’ week

will culminate in an outdoor con-
cert Saturday, May 21, that will
showcase four W&L_ student
bands—Small Republic, Bottoms
Up, Shades of Grey, and Green
Eggs & Ham. The concert will be

two years after he graduated from
Harvard Law School, he was named
assistant counsel to the Senate Per-
manent Subcommittee on In-
vestigations. He went on to serve as
special counsel to Senators Henry
Jackson and Daniel Moynihan and
was later named Moynihan’s chief of
staff.

Abrams joined the executive branch
in 1981 as the assistant secretary of
state responsible for supervising U.S.
involvement in the United Nations.
He was named assistant secretary for
Human Rights and Humanitarian Af-
fairs less than a year later and re-
mained in that post until 1985.

held in front of Lee Chapel from
noon to 4 p.m.

All events during the week are
open to the public.

The primary focus of Amnesty
International’s ‘‘Human_ Rights
Now!”’ campaign is a massive peti-
tion drive supporting human
rights. The organization is circulat-
ing petitions worldwide and will
deliver the signed petitions to the
United Nations on Human Rights
Day, December 10, 1988.
Throughout the week of May
16-21, W&L’s chapter of Amnesty
International will also be collecting
signatures in support of human
rights.

‘Human Rights Now!” is a
commemoration of the 40th an-
niversary of the signing of the Uni-
versal Declaration of Human
Rights,"’ says Kevin McNamara, a
W&L senior and founder of the
university's chapter of Amnesty
International. ‘‘We’re sponsoring
this week of events to make a
statement that the world is concer-
ned about human rights, and we
hope to make Washington and Lee
and the Lexington community
more appreciative of the signifi-
cance of this issue.””

.

 

 

Senior Night, May 25, kicks off
1988 graduation ceremonies

 

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

In just 13 days the class of 1988 will
begin the ceremonies involved in
graduation.

Wednesday, May 25, Senior Night
will recognize and award members of
the class in Lee Chapel. Senior class
president, Mike Henry will speak.
The evening’s guest speaker will be
Prof. J. Davis Futch, If. A reception
will follow at the Alumni House.

The Senior class party on Monday,
May 30 will begin in the afternoon.
This year’s party will be held at the Pi
Kappa Alpha river house as opposed
to the usual location at Zollman’s Pa-
vilion. Henry anticipates the party will
be better than previous ones because
of the location, live entertainment,
and the earlier date.

Henry comments that they are try

ing to contact members to contribute
to the class gift for the school.

Baccalaureate Service on Wednes-
day, June | will begin at 11:00 a.m.
President John D. Wilson and guest
speaker Philippe Labro, °58, will ad-
dress the service. A luncheon spon-
sored by the Alumni House will fol
low on the Front Lawn.

Seniors may pick up their caps and
gowns starting Monday, May 25,
through Thursday, June 2 in the book
store. A refundable deposit of $35 is
required.

On Thursday, June 2, the Military
Commissioning Ceremony will take
place at 9:00 a.m. in Lee Chapel.
Brigadier General Thomas P. O’Brien
will address the ceremony.

Commencement Exercises begin at
11:00 a.m. on the Front Lawn. Presi
dent Wilson and Executive Committee
President Brad Root will speak. Each

graduate will receive a sheepskin

parchment dipluina. W&L is one of
eight institutions in the country to still
give this type of diploma. Professional
framing is suggested to avoid its being
damaged.

Root, in anticipation of graduation,
comments on the unique nature of his
class. He feels the class is **marked by
a true bond of friendship that trans-
cends any number of cliques and div
isions such as fraternities, "’

Both Henry and Root commented
on the nature of their graduation for
the last all male class. Henry states,
‘*We accept coeducation at W&L; we
simply leave appreciating the former
unique nature of a single-sex school."’

Root comments that the class is
“not so sad that we're leaving some
thing so different from what we knew
four years ago; we're sentimentally
unified and sad to leave W&L."* Root
suggested that his class looks forward
all the privileges of alumni.
~ OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1988

 

ororities

The question of whether sororities will be colonized at W&L has
been discussed, debated, and argued since 1985, when the first
women undergraduate students were admitted.

Recently, the move to form sororities obtained new momentum
with the circulation of a petition among female students calling for a
sorority’ rush during the 1988-89 academic year. Ninety-five
women signed the petition, representing 26 percent of the total fe-
male undergraduate enrollment.

It seems the administration supports the efforts of those women to
develop a sorority system, and in fact will help form a sorority ad-
visory committee of faculty, students, and administration. That
committee will develop plans for the rush next year after determin-
ing which national sororities will be allowed to colonize at W&L. If
their schedule is implemented, W&L will have sororities in place
before the graduation of the class of 1989, the first class to include
women as freshmen. '

However, in the survey conducted by Professor David Novack’s
sociology class during February registration, more than 50 percent
of the women surveyed said they were opposed to having sororities
at W&L.

Thus, if sororities are formed on our campus by one quarter of
the women students, more than half of the female undergraduate
population will be unhappy.

Sororities will divide the women of the university into distinct
factions, resulting in a lack of unity for the female student popula-
tion as a whole. Do the women really want to do that, while anti-
coeducation sentiment still exists and is regularly expressed? The
women of W&L will find more strength in numbers than in sorori-
ties.

Some supporters of sororities claim that such organizations are
necessary to provide leadership opportunities for women. Are the
existing leadership positions not sufficient? Women are represented
in nearly every campus organization and are leaders of many.

An undergraduate woman will sit on the Executive Committee
next year.

The chair of the 1989 Fancy Dress Ball is a woman. One of the
chairs of the Student Recruitment Committee is a woman.

Women’s sports teams are developing more rapidly than ever ex-
pected, and have already claimed Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championships.

This year, two women were inducted into Omicron Delta Kappa,
the society honoring leadership and academic achievement.

The women of next year’s university residential staff include the
head resident assistant, one of the co-head dormitory counselors, an
assistant head dormitory counselor, and many, many staff mem-
bers.

The secretary of the 1988 Mock Democratic Convention was a
woman.

One of the co-editors of this newspaper is a woman, in addition to
the female editorial page editor. Next year, 7he Ring-tum Phi will
have a triumvirate of female editors. The Calyx has a female co-
editor. A woman is the news director of WLUR, with a female as-
sistant news director.

A woman will serve as president next year of W&L’s chapter of
Alpha Phi Omega, the national service fraternity. The president of
the University Chorus is a woman. Three women hold offices in the
Women’s Chorus.

Such a list is not comprehensive, but should imply the extent to
which women have participated in and led campus activities. The
Interfraternity Council is one of the few campus groups which does
not have female members.

Why does W&L need sororities after all? Do we need them as
friendship clubs for women? With the small number of students at
this school, and particularly the small number of women, it is rela-
tively easy to know nearly everyone. How would sororities contri-
bute to the ability of women to meet each other?

Will sororities help provide more social outlets for women? Tri-
dent is in its second year of sponsoring a spring semi-formal party
and sponsored a winter term social event as well. Will sororities do
any better?

Many women of W&L also attend fraternity parties as alternative
social activities. Will members of sororities take advantage of the
same opportunity for socializing? If they do, will a Greek system
develop wherein particular sororities socialize primarily with parti-
cular fraternities? That situation is likely, and will only succeed in
further factionalizing the female students of W&L.

Although larger schools may be able to support sorority systems
with one quarter of the female students participating, W&L cannot.
The university simply does not have enough female students enrol-
led to supply a sorority system, and the women who are here might
better be advised to develop and maintain a group identity, rather

than rashly implementing a system which will divide the women
into factions. - MMP

- MED

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

 

OPINION PAGE STAFF

Editorial Page Bator .....ccscsssccevcsssessssessecccsesscssoccessesessessesesees Margaret Pimblett
Cartoonist .....c.cocccccsssserorersvccsereesrovesserscevsccsserceseseossescnccccssoeses Stephen Ingram

BUSINESS STAFF

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ringtum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

Investigative reporting, as Sbar does it,
covers the issues from men to Mom

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

Recently, I received a_ petition
signed by every living member of Gil-
liam Dormitory. The petition deman-
ded that I do something about the
‘‘disgusting odors’’ emanating from
my room which have ‘‘permeated”’
the entire building. ‘*Until something
is done,’’ the petition continued, ‘‘the
women on the fourth floor are on a
hunger strike.’’ I ignored the petition
because I figured that the women on
the fourth floor could stand to lose a
little weight. However, my attitude
soon changed after I received notice
from the health department declaring
my room ‘‘unfit to be habitable for the
Puerto Rican Iguana.’’ At that point I
realized I would have to take drastic
action—I had to do my laundry.

As I waited for the spin cycle to fin-
ish on my 30th load I decided to catch
up on current events with a copy of
theUSA Today that I found in the
trash. A major issue was the recently
published book by former White
House chief of staff, Donald Regan.
Regan revealed that the president’s
major policy decisions are influenced
by Methulsa, the deranged, but sexy,
astrologer. Regan also implied that the
president determines foreign policy
with a roulette wheel. I had to admire
Regan’s skills as an investigator that
he could discover interesting facts
like, ‘‘In moments of stress, he (the
President) sometimes leaned forward
in his chair and let his arms dangle
loosely between his knees.’’ I was so
inspired by Regan’s investigation that
I resolved to try my own hand in the
exciting and dangerous world of In-
vestigative Reporting.

My first subject of investigation was
the recent proposal to revise the
Honor Code Pledge from ‘‘I will not
lie, cheat, or steal,”’ to ‘I will not lie,
cheat, steal, or commit untrustworthy
acts.’’ After many nights of research,
interviews, and information payoffs I
cracked the case. Here are the cold
facts. The ‘‘untrustworthy acts’’
clause was invented by power- hungry
fascists on the Executive Committee.
These EC fascists plan to use the ‘‘un-
trustworthy acts’’ addition as a loo-
phole to expel college undesirables for
honor violations like starting rumors,
bad table manners, body odor and
drinking light beer. Within the next
five years the fascist faction hopes to
increase its power base by acquiring a
few territories in Latin America, put-
ting EC members in the Senate, pay-
ing EC members $200,000 a year and
guaranteeing them a life-long pension.

These recently uncovered plots
bring up deeper questions. Questions
which penetrate to the very core of the
Washington and Lee ideology—the
concept of the W&L Southern gentle-
man. In order to uncover some of the
misconceptions and illusions on the
Southern gentleman subject I have
complied a list of the eight most com-
mon definitions:

*Southern bigot: ‘‘A Southern
gentleman is a superior member of the
human race because he was born south
of the Mason Dixon line. He con-
sumes huge quantities of Jack Daniels
whisky and hates minority groups
such as the Yankees.”’

*Northern bigot: ‘‘A Southern
gentleman is a semi-illiterate, beer-
swilling, tobacco-spitting psychopath
who drives a pick-up truck and enjoys
torturing animals in his free time. His
idea of a cultural experience is to
watch The Dukes of Hazzard.”’

*Militant Feminist:‘‘A Southern
gentleman is a chauvinist who opens
doors for females and expects sexual

favors in return."’

Gentlemen's Quarterly (GQ)
magazine: ‘‘A Southern gentleman is
a male who wears a tuxedo whenever
he leaves his house.”’

eAnn Landers: ‘‘A Southern
gentleman is a member of the male
species who has realized that women
are superior.”

*Playboy magazine: ‘‘A Southern
gentleman is any heterosexual male
who has lost his virginity. ”’

*Washington and Lee University:
**A Southern gentleman is a male (or
female) who conducts himself honor-
ably in everything he does. Honor is
defined in a boring white book distri-
buted to freshmen at the beginning of
the school year.”’

Me: **A Southern gentleman is any
life form which follows the honorable
traditions of General Lee’s distin-
guished horse, Traveller.*’

I recommend the readers spend a
good percentage of their lives meditat-
ing on the ramifications, truths, and
meaning of the honor code and the
Southern gentleman. In the meantime,
we must move on to other frontiers of
investigation.

My next subject of investigation is
one of my recent articles. Two weeks
ago I wrote on my spring break expe-
rience. In one part of the article I de-
scribed how my family members
treated me with unprecedented respect
owing to their fear of showing up in an
article in The Ring-tum Phi. To exhi-
bit my point I portrayed a scene in
which my mother asked me to do the
dishes but changed her mind because
she remembered my ‘tendency for
gross exaggerations and envisioned an
article in which I portrayed her as a
power-hungry family dictator who
forces me to cook and clean all
break...”

But the Phi misprinted my statement
which came out to the effect of ,‘‘my
mom, remembering her tendency as a

®

id
gross power-hungry family dictator
who forces me to cook and clean all
break...’’ The reader can plainly see,
how the omission of a few choice
words created an entirely different
statement from the one I intended.,
The question that remains to be an-
swered is whether or not this omission’
was an administrative plot to upset my,
mother in the hopes that she would
withdraw me from school and place
me in an insane asylum. My in-;

vestigation indicates that there was an

administrative Phi conspiracy to get
me out of Washington and Lee. Be-!
fore the reader makes up his mind I
feel obligated to reveal some state-
ments on the matter.

eWriter’s (my) vindication of self:
** | admit that I have a deranged sense
of humor, but even I don’t think call-
ing my mother a gross dictator is
funny. Furthermore, my mother has
as much in common with a gross dicta-
tor as my dorm room has with cleanli-
ness. (Nothing).”’

¢The Ring-tum Phi editorial state-
ment: ‘‘Mr. Sbar’s allegations that a
recent misprint concerning his mother
was part of a plot to get him out of
W&L is so ludicrous that it is beyond
belief (even from Mr. Sbar). The real,
problem is that Mr. Sbar usually turns
in his articles two hours after deadline
on torn yellow legal paper. His hand-
writing is illegible and he has no
knowledge of current grammar laws.
Furthermore, even though we would
like nothing more than to see Mr. Sbar ,
leave W&L, we would never consider
such a stunt in the realm of reality.’’

I hope readers have enjoyed my |
journey into the province of in- -
vestigative reporting. Anyone who is
interested (preferably attractive fe-
males) is welcome to see me about '
renting my self- produced videotape -
on the do’s and don’ts of hardcore in- .
vestigative reporting.

——_—__

Alumni Office

To the Editors:

When James M. Davidson Jr., 38, "44L, came
to the Alumni House late Friday afternoon to reg-
ister for his 50th Reunion, his next stop was a re-
ception and dinner that, due to rain, was moved to
the Warner Center. David B. Stuart, the young
local man who was assisting the 50th Reunion par-
ticipant, asked directions to the most convenient
entrance at the gymnasium and inquired about the
facility’s elevator. Mr. Davidson is confined to a
wheelchair.

George Massie, a Washington and Lee senior,
was stationed at the Alumni House Friday after-
noon during registration hours. George was one
of ten members of the Alpha Phi Omega service
fraternity who shared their time with the W&L’s
alumni throughout the weekend. Besides assisting
Mr. Davidson to the gym, George also ran
through the rain affixing notices about the change
in the evening’s activities. He greeted registering

Washington and Lee.

Our reunion weekend was very much a success,
and I believe that one of the most obvious and key
additions was a youthful infusion which the stu-
dent body provided.

Students could be found at Thursday evening’s
assembly in Lee Chapel, when Philippe Labro.
"58, gave the opening address. Members of the
student alumni group, Kathekon, assisted several
panel discussions Friday, led campus tours, and
ushered Saturday morning’s Annual Meeting of
the Alumni Association. Student crews put in
hours of time at the Dining Hall and at various
sites for luncheons and dinners. APO members
volunteered their Saturday evening, assisting Be-
tty Taylor cater the 50th Reunion Banquet for the
Class of 1938. Student singers shared the Lee
Chapel stage Saturday at noon for a well-received
performance of Southern Comfort and the Alumni
Glee Club. And JubiLee, the small women’s en-
semble, entertained a crowd of alumni, faculty,
and students in the Gaines Hall Gatehouse Satur-
day afternoon.

The staff of the Alumni Office is very grateful
to the student body for their participation in the
weekend’s activities. On behalf of the Alumni Of-
fice staff, I would like to express particular thanks
to all members of Kathekon and to the APO mem-
bers, including George Massie, Laura Taylor,
Jane Allen, Steve Ingram, Andy Nixon, Marie
Dunne, Lovell West, Dean Nuckols, Dorothy
Mills and Wendy Wilson. :

We appreciate all of our alumni-in-residence!

Sincerely,
Richard B. Sessoms
Director of Alumni Programs

°

Sexism condoned at W&L

To the Editors:

The administration of W&L has sent a disturb-
ing message to the student body: that sexism is to
be condoned.

One has only to look at the school’s disciplinary
record to see the bizarre and distorted set of moral
standards the school sets for its students. When a

alumni and answered their questions about today’s

LETTERS|

 

thanks students for help |

student beat a man while two of his friends held
him down, that student was put on social proba-
tion for two weeks. When a student raped his
date, he was suspended for one semester. Last
month when a student hit his ex-girlfriend once
during an argument, he was expelled. That de-
cision was appealed and he will be allowed to re-
apply after one year.

The University administrators apparently be-
lieved that one man being beaten by three others is
acceptable when compared with a woman being
struck once in a moment of anger. Are women so
revered at W&L? Why then is raping a woman
considered a minor offense?

The students deserve better than the inept and
misguided moral leadership provided by the ad-
ministrators of W&L.

Sincerely,
Katherine Netzer Bunger

‘‘Unauthorized Absence”’

To the Editors:

How appropriate for Professor Colvin’s letter
to appear in the 28 April issue of The Ring-tum
Phi along with the editorial, ‘‘Honor changes.”’

Those individuals who made a commitment to
attend the U.S. Naval Academy Foreign Affairs
Conference and did not keep it, committed an un-
trustworthy act, a subject under review by the
White Book Revisions Committee. No matter that
these individuals missed an opportunity to meet
with fine students at a prestigious institution.
They besmirched the good name and reputation of
General Lee’s college.

A violation of trust? Yes, and also, in military
parlance, subject to the charge of Unauthorized
Absence.

Robert C. Peniston

Greetings from W&L

To the Editors:

When I was a senior in high school, I visited
Washington & Lee. The university became my
first choice and my dream. I was extremely im-
pressed by the friendliness shown to me by the
students I passed on campus. Their smiles bright-
ened an otherwise dreary January morning.

This was before I was told about the so-called
Speaking Rule. What’s that you say? Well, ac-
cording to an outmoded idea called tradition,
Washington and Lee students are required to say
‘hello’? to those they pass on campus. Even
someone unknown to him or her? Yes. That’s the
charm of it all. You mean to tell me you haven't
noticed this? That's okay. This year, I haven't
either.

I don’t intend to single out the freshmen, but I
am wondering if they have even been told about
this special privilege consisting merely of a smile
and a brief greeting. The upperclassmen needn't

necessarily pat themselves on the back either.
Traditions are instituted for a reason. Even

though it would hardly be possible to bring back

the concept of wearing a coat and tie to class,

what’s the harm in a smile? 2
Anyone curious about a good description of the |,

Speaking Rule should consult Philippe Labro’s
The Foreign Student Section \', Chapter 5. It was

while reading this that I realized what has been}.

missing on this campus all year.

Ann Stewart |’

Thanks to APO from Daley

To the Editors:

The morning of Saturday April 23 was one of
the most incredible I have ever experienced. Lex-
ington High School was the site of the Area 18
Special Olympics Spring Games where more than
thirty mentally retarded athletes competed in track
and field events.

I am writing to publicly commend the Washing-
ton and Lee service organization Alpha Phi
Omega. Nine APO members showed up to help
with the events—some timed the runners, some

recorded the times, some measured accomplish- | ,

ments in the field events, and some helped hand
out the awards to the competing athletes. They
provided this service with genuine enthusiasm. In
all honesty, without the APO members the morn-
ing would not have been as successful. APO is to
be congratulated as much for their enthusiasm in
service as for their commitment to service.
Sincerely,
Edward V. Daley

What about the banner?

To the Editors:

On Thursday, April 28, the Lee-Jackson La-
crosse Classic banner was removed, by us, from
the Wilson Field scoreboard. The result of which
interfered with an on-going police investigation
involving its original removal from Washington
Street. The individual or group of individuals who
removed the banner is being asked to step for-
ward. By doing so, there will be no charges
brought upon you by the Lexington Police.
However, what is expected from a Washington
and Lee student is a formal written apology to the
citizens and administration of Lexington. The
apology should be written and given to Charles
**Murph”’ Murray, the University Proctor, at his
office located in the Graham-Lees Dormitory.
The letter of apology will then be delivered to the
City Council. This is being done to set to rest the
confusion caused by the removal of the banner
and re-establish the strength of the Honor Code at
Washington and Lee.

Thank you for your cooperation,
John McDonald

Sam Obenshain

Mark Oluvic

™

 

 

 

 

 

|

}
{
|
|

 
NEWS/OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1988

 

English Club is for all majors Abrams isn’t the only one
to leave the Democrats

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

The English Club was started this
year because, according to Jimm
Cobb, ‘‘[Assistant] Professor [of Eng-
lish James P.] Warren saw the need
for the English majors to get together
and share something in common,’

There are four core members of the
group: Jimm Cobb, Jenny Elmes, Be-
tsy Vegso, and Warren, the advisor.
The main focus of the club has
changed since it’s beginning.

‘*Mainly it was begun to discuss lit-

erary criticism. Now the focus is on
reading poetry and other works in

public. It’s sort of like a speech
class,’’ Cobb explained.

The club has already held two poe-
try readings. One was held in the win-
ter and one in the spring. Cobb esti-
mates that about fifteen people atten-
ded the first 1ceding.

Plans for the club include incorpor-
ating the English department awards
ceremony held each spring with the
club’s duties. Club members also
hope to hold a retreat at Skylark next
fall. Skylark is property on mountain
top approximately a half-hour away
from W&L, where senior English
majors hold retreats each fall term.

The club also plans to expand the
number of people allowed to partici-
pate and invite speakers, said Cobb.

Confetti’s is next weekend

 

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

At their regular Monday meeting
Trident announced that Friday, May
20 will mark the beginning of the sec-
ond annual Confetti’s Spring Week-
end. This event offers undergraduate
women an opportunity to invite dates
to a function.

A banquet on Friday evening will
take place at the Ramada Inn. The
banquet includes dinner and a
speaker. The banquet is not an all-
evening event and will allow students
to make plans for later that night.

A Saturday afternoon party at Zoll-
man’s pavilion will begin around |
p.m. It will feature the live entertain-
ment of Derryberry and Aligia, an
acoustic band that has played for
fraternities in the past.

Saturday night’s semi-formal party

will take place in the grass area be-
tween Wood’s Creek and the Univer-
sity library. N’est Pas will play for the
evening’s event.

The area behind the library is
equipped with lighting and electrical
outlets. Afternoon parties with bands
were common about ten years ago, but
the facility has not been used in recent
years. Tents, a dance floor, and tables
will be set up for the event. A tag bar
will offer soft drinks and mixers.

All aspects of the weekend are
sponsored by Trident and will be paid
for from ticket sales. All undergra-
duate women, including exchange
students, can purchase tickets next
week in the Trident office in Univer-
sity Center Monday through Thursday
from 4-6 p.m.

‘This event is intended to provide a
positive opportunity for the undergra-
duate women to sponsor their own
social function,’’ said Liz Smith, one
of the organizers.

Fox named personnel director

 

From Staff Reports

 

Robert W. Fox, Jr., former director
of human resources at Wheaton Col-
lege, has been named director of per-
sonnel services at W&f.."Fox will be-
gin his position on July 1.

A 1968 graduate of the University
of Massachusetts, Fox served for
three years as assistant to the person-
nel director at Connecticut Valley
Hospital. In 1972 he was named the
first personnel director at Hampshire
College in Amherst, Mass. While at

Hampshire, Fox developed and im-
plemented programs for all aspects of
personnel administration.

In 1980 Fox became the first per-
sonnel director for New England
Medical Laboratories in Holliston,
Mass. After serving briefly as person-
nel manager for The Interface Group,
inc. in Needham, Mass., fox was
named director of Human Resources
at Wheaton College in Norton, Mass.

While at Wheaton, Fox participated
in the revision of the wage and salary
administration system, conducted an
analysis of all benefit programs, and
reviewed all personnel policies.

The club is ‘‘open to anyone inter-
ested in literature,’’ says Cobb. He
said four non-English majors attended
the first reading.

Concerning the first meeting, he
said, ‘‘It was really enjoyable. A lot of
people got to read things other people
had never heard before. It really pre-
sented positive feedback to see how
others reacted to your stuff.”’

At the last meeting, two faculty
members showed their support. Sid-
ney Coulling, former head of the Eng-
lish department, and Elizabeth Mor-
gan, currently poet-in-residence, at-
tended.

The club meets twice a term. The
next meeting will be in the fourth
week of fall term.

Mollenhoff

writes
10th book

From Staff Reports

 

 

The inventor of the electronic digi-
tal computer—the computer from
which virtually all modern computer
technology derived—was John Mau-
chly of the University of Pennsyl-
vania. Or so it was thought for 34
years until a court case in 1973 proved
it was not Mauchly, but John V. Atan-
asoff of Iowa State University.

In his most recent book, Atanasoff:
Forgotten Father of the Computer
(Iowa State University Press), Clark
R. Mollenhoff, professor of journal-
ism at W&L, offers the complete story
of the events which proved that Atana-
soff was, in fact, the long unacknow-
ledged inventor of the computer.

Mollenhoff covers the 34 years of
events that led to the 1973 court rul-
ing, as well as the early years of Atan-
asoff’s life and career and the after-
math of his rightful recognition. Using
records of the trial and interviews with
the participants, Mollenhoff examines
the unusual chain of events which led
to the trial and its outcome.

A graduate of Drake University

Law School, Mollenhoff won the Pu-
litzer Prize for national reporting
while working for The Des Moines
Register as a Washington correspon-
dent. It was as Washington bureau
chief, in 1973, that he became in-
volved with the Atanasoff story.

Mollenhoff is the author of 10 other
books. He has been a member of the
faculty since 1976.

Schooley to give medical ethics lecture

 

From Staff Reports

 

Robert Turner Schooley, associate
professor of medicine at the Harvard
Medical School, will deliver the
keynote lecture at W&L’s annual
Medical Ethics Institute on Friday,
May 13.

The lecture, titled ‘‘AIDS Vaccine
Development: Ethical Considera-
tions,’’ will be presented at 8 p.m. in
Classroom E of Lewis Hall. It is free
and open to the public.

The Medical Ethics Institute is part
of W&L’s program in applied ethics,
‘‘Society and the Professions.’’ Dur-

Ashley Parsons, junior ‘‘No, I

ing the three-day institute, students
and faculty will be joined by medical
professionals in a series of seminars
on current topics in medical ethics.

In addition to his public lecture,
Schooley will lead two seminars per-
taining to the use of the AIDS vaccine.
Other topics to be discussed in the
seminars will include ‘*Ethical Issues
in Virginia’s Board of Medicine,”’
“Issues in Pediatric Medicine,’’ and
“*The Press and AIDS.”’

A 1970 graduate of W&L, Schooley
received his M.D. degree from The
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
After completing his residency at
Johns Hopkins in 1976, he received a

Interviews by
Marie Dunne

 

 

Simon Smith, freshman ‘‘No, I

number of fellowships for research at
the National Institutes of Health in
Bethesda, Md., Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital, and Harvard Medical
School.

Schooley joined the Harvard Medi-
cal School faculty in 1981. He also
serves as assistant physician at Massa-
chusetts General Hospital and consul-
tant with the AIDS Study Sections of
the National Institutes of Health. He is
a member of the American College of
Physicians, the American Association
of Immunologists, the American As-
sociation for Advancement of
Science, and a Fellow of the Infec-
tious Disease Society of America.

 

MY VIEW
By John Roach

The Assistant Secretary of State, El-
liott Abrams, will be speaking tonight
in Lee Chapel at 7:30. Abrams, a
former Democrat who left his party
when he became disenchanted at the
party’s new interpretation of foreign
affairs, is just one of the many Demo-
crats who have left their party over the
last ten years.

The Democratic Party has always
since 1945 had Henry Wallaces, Ted
Kennedys, and George McGoverns.
But at the same time it had many men
who believed in a strong America and
in for standing up against Communist
aggression. The most important of
these men were Harry Truman, John
F. Kennedy, and Henry ‘‘Scoop’’
Jackson. No one would have ever
heard them blame America first and
always find excuses for our enemies.

There is hardly any wing of the
Democratic Party that believes in an
assertive anti-Soviet stance in the
world. The party is controlled by spe-
cial interest groups and men such as
Jesse Jackson, Jim Wright, and Alan
Cranston. This was not an inviting

prospect for people such as Elliott
Abrams. He believes in helping peo-
ple who want to free themselves from
the chains of Communism and he
could no longer accept the Democrats’
extreme left-wing view of foreign pol-
icy. Abrams was no casual Democrat;
he was administrative assistant to
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and
was a Democrat’s Democrat. But he
felt he had to leave the party, for it
was espousing views contrary to what
he knew was right.

Abrams is not the only example of
this flight from the Donkey’s fold.
Jeanne Kirkpatrick was a_ lifelong
Democrat who could not find a place
in the rapidly changing party. She left
and joined the Republicans and was
probably the best representative our
country has had in the United Nations.
Perhaps the most striking story of
moving to the Republican Party in-
volves Texas Senator Phil Gramm.

Senator Gramm was a Democratic
Congressman in the early 1980s. He
became so frustrated with his party’s
stand against valuable weapons
systems as well as its abandonment of
a vigorous foreign policy that he
changed parties and went home to run
in his district as a Republican. He
won, and a few years later was elected
to the Senate, where he is considered

one of the foremost authorities on for
eign policy in the chamber. There ar:
many more examples of prominent
and just ordinary people, leaving th
Democratic party after they found tha
there was no one in the leadership o
the party who believe in a stron;
national defense and for rolling bacl
the tide of Communism.

Since Elliott Abrams is speaking a
Lee Chapel tonight I think it is impor
tant for everyone to know how harc
this man has been fighting to relieve
the plight of the Nicaraguan freedon
fighters. He has served as the poin
man for the administration on Capito
Hill in trying to convince the Con
gress to support the fight against the
Nicaraguan Marxists. Those who fol
lowed the Iran-Contra hearings las
year may remember his heated testi
mony in defense of the freedom fight
ers as well as his support for Presiden
Reagan during the hearings.

The Democratic party has left main-
stream America. It has abandonec
many defense-minded people as wel
as fervent anti-communists. The peo-
ple of America know that appease-
ment and blind trust of our enemies
are no ways to protect the liberties we
hold so dear. The Democrats offer
nothing- nothing but grounds for deer
anxiety.

 

Peek-a-boo

Seniors. Proof sheets are in the
Calyx office. Come by and pick
out your senior picture by Mon-
day.

Obits

The University Theatf&will pre-
sent Beth Henley’s ‘‘The Wake of
Jamey Foster’? on May 20-21 at
8:00 p.m., May 22 at 3:00 p.m.,
and May 23-25 at 8:00 p.m.

Ticket prices for the perfor-
mance are $3.00 for adults, $2.50
for children, $2.00 for senior citi-
zens, and free for W&L facul-
ty/staff and their families and
W&L students.

For information and re-
servations, please contact the
Theatre box office at (703)

463-8637.

Contact

Contact will host a lecture by El-
liott Abrams, Assistant Secretary
of State. Abrams, an influential
advisor on U.S. affairs in Panama
and Nicaragua, will speak at 7:30
p.m. in Lee Chapel. Next Thurs-
day, May 19, Michael Deaver,
former assistant chief of staff to
President Reagan will speak in Lee
Chapel at 8 p.m.

 

General Notes

Activities fair

Student leaders of campus organ-
izations interested in meeting the
incoming freshmen class at the stu-
dent activities fair next fall please
contact Mary Alice McMorrow or
Paul Lee—ASAP! The fair will be
the Friday of the orientation week
(the day of upperclassman matri-
culation) with the same format as
the 1987 fair.

Metrical money

The American Poetry Associa-
tion is sponsoring a new poetry
contest that awards $10,000 worth
of prizes to undiscovered poets.
The Grand Prize winner gets
$1,000, and 150 other winning
poets will receive cash, certificate,
and book awards. The deadline for
entry is June 30. Entry is free.

Interested poets may send up to
five poems of no more than 20
lines each, with name and address
on each page to American Poetry
Association, Dept. CN-57, 250 A
Potrero Street, P.O. Box 1803,
Santa Cruz, CA 95061-1803.
Poems mailed by June 30 are eli-
gible to win, prizes awarded by
August 31. Another contest begins
July 1, ends December 31, prizes
by February 28.

Poems are judged on originality
and sincerity, and every poem is
also considered for publication.

Triathlon

Approximately 30-40 volunteers
are needed for the Sth Annual
W&L Triathlon on Saturday, May
21. Assistants are needed for tim-
ing, manning the bike and running
courses, and working in the tran-
sition areas. Each volunteer will
receive a W&L Triathlon T- shirt.
For more information, call Tim
Phelan at 463-5429 or 463- 2608.

Beach bum

On the Beach (US, 1959, dir.
Stanely Kramer, star. Gregory
Peck/Ava Gardner/Anthony Per-
kins/Fred Astaire, from a novel by
Nevil Shute) runs at 7:30 p.m.,
4/11-12, 327 Commerce, sponsor:
Politics Dept. Public invited. Fil-
med on location in Australia in
documentary-like film-tone, this is
the most important film of the ‘‘a-
pocalypse’’ genre. Premiered sim-
ultaneously in the US and USSR, it
is the most fully developed ‘*worst-
case scenario”’ on celluloid, mak-
ing it perhaps the most important
entry of this year’s Politics
Filmfest. Farm surpasses Kramer’s
other ‘‘issue’’ films like High
Noon, Judgment at Nuremburg,
Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner,
Diary of Anne Frank, etc. Kramer
here probes the all-but-
unspeakable issue of when and
how best to commit suicide in the
face of imminent catastrophe, a to-
pic shunned by even the best inten-
tioned apocalyptic films. Not for
the weak-hearted.

 

 

TALKBACK

 

Goodloe Lewis, freshman ‘‘You

 

 

 

 

 

John Foster, freshman ‘‘No. It’s a

Alex Hitz, freshman ‘‘I think they

 

don’t think so. The intensity of the
academics here is strong enough that a
15-week term would be too harsh for
people.”’

don’t think so, because it gives us a
chance for a break. And we need the
break because we work pretty hard for
two 12-week terms.”’

have a lot more opportunities with
three semesters than with just two to
take more fun courses.”’

good break from two semesters when
you get to relax and enjoy yourself a
little bit.”’

should keep Spring Term, but do
away with the academic part of it.””

 
 

 

ee

PERE ELLOS DEO GEE MMMM ae A ET EROS SAD FEO OMY ET 4TH OS ©

SPORTS

Foreign players are tough,
down men’s tennis in finale

 

By Stuart Sheldon
Staff Reporter

 

Hampton University was the last
match for the W&L men’s tennis team
during regular season play. The Div-
ision Il power- house visited Lexing-
ton last Saturday.

With an entirely foreign squad, in-
cluding a member of the Pakistani
Davis Cup team, Hampton drubbed
the Generals 8-1. The loss moved
W&L’s regular season team mark to
13-8.

The loss to Hampton was not unex-
pected and did not hurt W&L’s posi-
tion in the seeding for the NCAA
D-III Men’s National Championships,
to be played May 15-22 here in Lex-
ington.

W&L’s 1987 Most Valuable Player,
Bobby Matthews, lost to Hampton's
No. | man Luis Nascimento in
straight sets 3-6, 2-6. In the singles
category, Matthews is ranked 6th in
the nation by the Intercollegiate Ten-
nis Coaches Association.

All-American Matthews’ season re-
cord of 21-11 was good enough to
earn him an invitation to compete as
an individual player as well as part of
W&L’s squad at the national tourna-
ment. The W&L junior was also
named Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Player-of-the Year earlier this
season.

At the No. 2 spot, W&L junior
Robert Haley, last year’s ODAC
Player-of-the-Year, fell to Flavio

Lima 3-6, 4-6. Haley is ranked 15th

by the ITCA’s April 29 singles poll.
Earning all-American honors last

season, Haley will also compete both

 

By Stuart Sheldon
Staff Reporter

 

The NCAA Tournament Selec-
tion Committee has selected ten
teams for this year’s Division Il
Men's Tennis Championships.
This is an increase of two teams
over last year’s eight-team field.

WA&L will play host to the tour-
nament, which will begin this Sun-
day, May 15 and last until the fol-
lowing Sunday, May 22. The fol-
lowing team analysis is presented
in the order of seeding as deter-
mined by the Selection Committee.

The Intercollegiate Tennis Coa-
ches Association polls used for this
analysis were issued on April 28th
(teams/doubles) and April 29th
(singles) by the ITCA.

UC-SANTA CRUZ

Santa Cruz, Calif.

ITCA Ranking: No. 1 (79 votes)
Tournament Seed: No. 1

Making their fourth trip to the
national tournament, the Banana
Slugs {that’s right, Banana Slugs!]
finished their season with a blister-
ing 21-1 record. Wins included
Swarthmore (5-4), UC-San Diego
(5-4), Claremont (7-2), Whitman
(8-1), and Emory (8-1). Their
only loss came from Division I
school California State at San Jose
in the Slugs season opener.

The “Slugs owe most of their
success, according to head coach
Bob Hansen, to the team’s ‘‘back-
bone, which has been our bottom
[three] players.’ Leading off this
core is Mark Roberts, ranked No.
37 by the ITCA. An all-American
at the No. 3 singles position,
Roberts has a 19-3 record. Jordan
Einbinder, at No. 5, has not lost
this year, sporting a 22-0 mark.

In doubles action, Hansen is
looking for leadership from his
No. | doubles pair of Matt Nagle
and Einbinder, who have a 10-5
record (ITCA No. 10).

Hansen thinks that the move to
ten teams is a positive step for
D-III tennis. ‘‘It is very healthy
[for the NCAA] to let those bottom
[two] teams in when they are
legitimately strong teams. ”’

ODDS: 3-1. UCSC is used to
winning, period. The ‘Slugs were
ranked fourth going into last year’s
tournament, and faltered against
W&L in the semi-finals. Their
team is strong from top to bottom,
but they haven't played W&L or
Washington College this year,
their two biggest challengers for
the title.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
Lexington, Va.

Season Record: 13-8
ITCA Ranking: No. 3 (64)
Tournament Seed: No. 2

For the last two years, W&L has
finished second in the nation, los
ing both times to Kalamazoo in the

 

   

individually and as a W&L team
member at the upcoming national
tournament.

Senior co-captain David McLeod,
now 23-8, also fell to his Hampton foe
No. 3 singles. Islam Ul-Naq_beat
McLeod 6-4, 6-3. A two-time all-
American, McLeod is currently ran-
ked 51st by the ITCA.

McLeod will compete individually
next week, as well as with the team.
He and Matthews, his consistent dou-
bles partner, will compete in the dou-
bles title race as well. The pair is ran-
ked No. 3 by the ITCA with a 26-5 re-
cord.

Sophomore John Morris scored
W&L’s only point at No. 4, where he
defeated Hampton’s Wuri Ajibade 7-6
(4), 3-6, 6-4.

Last year’s Freshman Player-of-the-
Year, Morris will take the team’s best
singles record, at 28-3, into the
national championship. Morris will be
competing in all three national
contests; singles, doubles and the
team championship.

An all-American in 1985, W&L’s
Chris Wiman played Yakubu Sulei-
man at No. 5. Wiman dropped to
Suleiman in straight sets 2- 6, 1-6.

Although the senior co-captain is
not playing as an individual qualifier
next week, he and partner Morris
(22-8 as a doubles team) will compete
in the doubles tournament. Both the
doubles and singles titles will be de-
cided after the team competition has
concluded on Wednesday. The pair is
ranked 24th by the ITCA.

The only freshman in W&L’s var-
sity line-up, Bill Meadows also fell in
straight sets to his Hampton aggres-
sor. Pedro Alipio took the No. 6

match 6-4, 6-2. The loss to Alipio
dropped Meadows’ record to an even
15-15. Meadows will be competing as
a member of the W&L team next
week,

At No. 1, Matthews and McLeod
also fell in doubles. The pair, favored
to do well at Nationals next week, lost
to Nascimento and Lima 4-6, 4-6.

WA&L’s second pair of Morris and
Wiman pushed Hampton’s Ul- Naq
and Ajibade to a third set before falter-
ing. The Hampton duo won 6-3, 1-6,
6-4.

Haley and Meadows also lost at the
No. 3 doubles spot. Hampton’s pair of
Alipio and Suleiman took the W&L
pair in straight sets 6-1, 6-3.

As a result of a telephone confer-
ence call held Sunday among the
members of the Selection Committee,
W&L was seeded second in the
national tournament, behind the Uni-
versity of California at Santa Cruz.
The Generals have finished second in
the nation for the past two years, los-
ing to Kalamazoo 6-3 both times.

Head coach Gary Franke, a member
of the selection committee, said he
‘*was very pleased that we have been
selected again to play in this tourna-
ment.’’ As to the Generals’ chances at
winning their first national title,
Franke thought that the team has
‘‘worked hard to reach this point and
now we have to work even harder to
succeed.”

From this Sunday, May 15th, to
Wednesday, May 18, ten teams will
compete for the team title. Play will
use all of the W&L courts, as well as
nearby Virginia Military Insitutes’
tennis facility, located in the valley
behind the school’s barracks.

ae

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1988

  
   
 

oh

 

The last half of the week will fea-
ture singles and doubles tournaments
to determine national champions in
each category.

The finals for the individual portion
of the tournament will begin on Sun-
day, May 22, at 12:30 with the singles
match. Doubles action will follows as

 

 

 

 

i 5) oh by Rae ae

 

es “=

 

erty

By Perry Hayes! The Ring-tum Phi

Senior David McLeod leads the men’s tennis team into the national
championships.
soon as the first contest has been con-

cluded. Both matches will be played
on W&L’s upper courts, behind Wil-

son Field.

Live coverage will be given by
W&L’s student radio station, WLUR,
(91.5 FM) throughout the tournament.

 

finals. Now, for the second time in
four years, the Generals have the
home court advantage in this battle
for the national title. Senior co-
captains David McLeod and Chris
Wiman most certainly do not want
this opportunity to slip through
their fingers again.

Three of the Generals’ losses
were at the hands of D-I programs
at Davidson, Penn State, and Wil-
liam & Mary.

Another loss, perhaps more im-
portant than all the others, was to
Washington College, 5-4, at
Swarthmore. This loss, combined
with various results from other
competition between the three
teams, had them in an almost vir-
tual deadlock going into the tour-
nament selection process.

The Generals are led by junior
Bobby Matthews, who moved up
to the No. | position in March. His
personal mark stands at 21- 11, and
Matthews is ranked No. 6 by the
ITCA. Robert Haley, another jun-
ior, closed out the regular season
with a 16-16 mark. Haley is well-
respected by the ITCA, at No. 15
nationally.

The Generals are also strong in
doubles, where Matthews and
McLeod (26-5) sport a No. 3 ITCA
ranking.

ODDS: 3-1. W&L is in great
position to spoil the ’Slugs season
of hard work. W&L players com-
bine for fifteen hungry years of
national championship play. The
Generals have charged hard for the
past two years, finishing second
both times, and they will be in the
thick of it again this year.

SWARTHMORE COLLEGE
Swarthmore, Pa.

Season Record: 13-8

ITCA Ranking: No. 2
Tournament Seed: 3

The Little Quakers finished their
regular season with a 13-8 record,
playing a packed schedule, includ-
ing seven contests against D-I pro-
grams.

Swarthmore lost five of their
seven D-I contests, and dropped a
decision to only one D-II team.
Head coach Michael Mullan cited
two good wins against strong D-I
teams, downing Penn State 7-2 and
the University of Pennsylvania
6-3.

In D-H action, Mullan pointed
to satisfying wins over Washington
College (6-3) and Claremont (5-4),
two teams attending this year’s
tournament.

Swarthmore sustained several
losses in their D-III schedule,
which explains their seed position.
The Litthe Quakers dropped mat-
ches to UC-Santa Cruz (5-4) and
W&L (7-2), teams ranked first and
second in the nation, respectively.

Mullan will be looking to his
best players to push his team
through the tournament. Andy
Mouer, the Little Quakers’ top
shaker, is ranked No. 2 in the

nation by the ITCA. This Austin,
Texas native is expected to do well
in both the team and individual por-
tions of the championships.

In the doubles arena, the
"Quakers are led into battle by
Mouer and his partner Andy
Dailey. This combo is ranked No.
7 in the nation by the ITCA, and
stand a good chance of advancing
in the doubles competition.

ODDS: 6-1. Swarthmore may
have beaten Washington College
and Claremont, but they fell to two
of the most qualified teams for the
crown, W&L and UCSC. They
will face one of these teams before
the team finals. If the Little
Quakers can beat either team, then
look out!

WASHINGTON COLLEGE
Chestertown, Md.

Season Record: 22-3

ITCA Ranking: No. 4 (56)
Tournament Seed: No. 4

Head coach Fred Wyman has done
wonders in four years. His Shore-
men have leaped from an unranked
no-name program to one of the
deepest D-III teams in the nation.
His squads have made three conse-
cutive trips to the tournament, fin-
ishing eighth two years ago and
third last year.

Playing a tough D-III schedule,
with only five home matches, the
Shoremen had key wins early
against highly-ranked Principia
and Ripon, who fell to Washington
in the same week, both by scores of
8-1.

The Shoremen also beat W&L
5-4 in what Wyman called ‘‘a huge
win.’’ He emphasized the irony of
the top two teams in the nation
coming down to the last match,
facing W&L’s top-ranked pair
against his No. 2 duo. *‘I was so
nervous I had to leave after the
second set,”’ he said.

The Shoremen are lead by
underclassmen heavyweights.
Larry Gewer (ITCA No. 3), a 16-4
sophomore, was an all-American
last year in singles and doubles.
Wyman described Gewer’s playing
style as oddly defensive. ‘‘He
doesn’t attack. He is an effective
counter puncher.”’

At No. 2 is Scott Flippin-Read, a
Texas freshman (ITCA No. 25).
At 19-3, Flippin-Read’s only D-III
loss was handed down by fellow
Texan Bobby Matthews, W&L’s
No. | netter.

These two combine to form
Washington’s No.1 doubles pair.
The two were ranked No. 2 by the
ITCA, and are Il-4.

ODDS: 3-1. The Shoremen are
tough. They have depth that even
out-distances UCSC and W&L,
which is vital as they push up the
polls. They are the team that will
challenge both those schools. Even
if they don’t finish first this year,
they will be back.

TOURNAMENT ANALYSI
Nationals expand to 10 teams; ’Slugs ranked No. 1

KALAMAZOO
Kalamazoo, Mich.
Season Record: 14-8
ITCA Ranking: No. 5 (51)
Tournament Seed: No. 5

Already repeat tournament cham-
pions, the 14-7 Hornets have their
work cut out for them if they Wish
to capture a third consecutive title.
Graduation took four of last year’s
seven, including powers Alex Pal-
ladino and Jim Burda, as well as
Kalamazoo’s top two doubles
combos. Head coach George
Acker said that this year, ‘‘instead
of being chased, we are doing the
chasing.”’

During regular season action,
Kalamazoo defeated two D-I
teams, Western Michigan Univer-
sity and Notre Dame, both by 5-4
scores. Seven of their eight losses
came from D-I teams.

Their most notable D-III wins
came against Emory, who the
Hornets beat 8-1, and the Univer-
sity of the South, who fell 5-2 in a
time-shortened match.

Kalamazoo’s experienced sting-
ers are led by senior buzzer Jack
Hosner, 14-8 (ITCA No. 4), who
has risen to the top from No. 5 as a
freshman.

Acker was happy to see the field
expanded to ten teams. ‘“‘It’s just
tremendous,’’ he said. ‘The
Committee didn’t feel like they had
left someone out.”’

ODDS: 6-1. Don’t count the
Hornets out of anything, including
the team title. They are the vet-
erans of the tournament, with al-
most twenty years of combined.
tournament experience.

UC-SAN DIEGO

San Diego, Calif.

Season Record: 21-10
ITCA Ranking: No. 6 (40)
Tournament Seed: No. 6

Not appearing last year, the Tri-
tons will arrive in Lexington with
their hopes high. San Diego fin-
ished their season with only one
loss in D-II action, with a 10-1 re-
cord. UCSD played a tough sched-
ule, including many D-I and NAIA
programs.

Their sole D-III loss came at the
hands of UC-Santa Cruz, who
scraped past them in a tight 5-4
match. The Tritons turned around
to defeat No. 7 Claremont 5-4, and
No. 9 Whitman by the same nar-
row margin. Whitman earned only
one match point in singles action,
however.

With a record of 18-11, Hunter
Gallaway, (ITCA No. 14) UCSD’s
No. | singles player, has beaten
Santa Cruz’ No. 1 man, Ron
Ward, Claremont’s top man,
Frank Hinman, Whitman's No. 1,
Eugene Kim, and Washington
University St. Louis standout Dun-
can Seay.

Head coach Jon Hammermeister
thought that the move to include
more teams in the tournament “‘is a

good idea, and that they the selec-
tion committee should go to twelve
teams.’’ Hammermeister added,
‘*Division III tennis, over the last
few years, has become a lot
deeper.”’

ODDS: 8-1. UCSD does not
have the balanced attack that some
of the stronger teams feature.
However, led by Gallaway, the
Tritons have an outside chance at
the team crown. However, they
haven't played many of the teams
at the tournament.

CLAREMONT
Claremont, Calif.

Season Record: 24-11
ITCA Ranking: No. 7 (32)
Tournament Seed: No. 7

With only four D-I teams on their
calendar, the Claremont Stags
played a respectable D-III schedule
this year, and they did a respecta-
ble job. The Stags crowned their
regular season by going undefeated
in the Southern California Intercol-
legiate Athletic Conference, with a
12-0 mark.

D-III losses included UC-Santa
Cruz 7-2, Swarthmore 4-5, UC-
San Diego 4-5, and Rochester,
who was well-ranked in pre-season
polls, 4-5.

Claremont notched regular
season wins against several other
D-III teams, including Whitman
5-4, Emory 6-3, Gustavus Adol-
phus 6-3, St. Thomas 5-4, and
Washington University 7-2.

The singles squad is led by Frank
Hinman (ITCA No. 7), who was
21-9 during regular season action.
Supporting Hinman at No. 2 is
Pete Gertmenian (ITCA No. 29),
finishing out at 20-13, and the
Stags’ No. 3 man, Lance Au
(ITCA No. 60), 26-9.

This year, Claremont’s fifth trip
to a national championship tour-
nament, the Stags are led by their
strong doubles combinations.

ODDS: 8-1. Head coach Hank
Krieger feels that his team is
strongest at doubles, but don’t for-
get the singles. Claremont has
tournament experience, and has
played east coast teams this year.
The Stags could be one of this
year’s spoilers.

UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH
Sewanee, Tenn.

Season Record: 24-5

ITCA Ranking: No. 8 (21)
Tournament Seed: No. 8

The University of the South is
making its first ever team appear-
ance in the tournament, and head
coach John Shackelford feels that
his 24-5 Tigers will do well.

Sewanee played eleven teams
that were ranked in the ITCA D-
III pre-season poll, with two of the
11 actually getting tournament
bids. They logged three D-I losses
to state schools, dropping matches
to Middle Tenn. State, Tenn.
Tech, and UT- Chattanooga.

 

team to
Nationals

:

4

;

’

'

 

From Staff Reports

<

For the third time in his tenure at,
W&L, head coach Buck Leslie’s golf
team will be competing in the NCAA*

Division II] Championships.

The tournament will be hosted by ,

Greensboro College in North Caro-

lina. It will be held May 17-20 at the ‘
Farm Course (Greensboro Country ,

Club).

The team members representing*
W&L will be seniors Gary Campbell, +
John Gammage, and James Sowersby, |
and juniors Pete Coleman and Tom

Wingfield.

‘

:

“It’s a lot more fun with a team,””’

said Leslie, who had teams participat-,
ing in the NCAA Championships in

1977 (7th-place) and

(1 1th-place).

1979"

:

“It’s definitely an honor to rep-,
resent our area,’’ said Leslie. ‘‘We
weren’t favored to win our confer-'
ence...that’s what makes this oppor-,

tunity a lot sweeter.”

According to Leslie, ‘‘Our mail
goal is to be competitive...four days ’

of golf is a good test.”’

4

‘‘T don’t know the strength of a lot .
of these teams,’’ said Leslie. ‘‘We’ll
have the same tee order and I hope we '
can pick up where we left off in the +

ODAC tournament.’’

r

There will be 21 teams and 15 indi- ,
viduals participating from across the

country. The total number of partici- *

pants will be 120.

The Tigers were fierce in D-III
action, losing only two matches.
Wins came against Washington
University, Carlton, Principia, and
two notches against Emory.

Sewanee’s No. 1 man, Pat
Guerry, has been ranked fifth in
ITCA singles polls. Kéy wins in-
clude a straight-set blasting of
Principia’s Toby Clark (ITCA No.
1), and two wins over Emory’s Ji-
mmy Strauss.

Shackelford places his doubles
trust in the strong hands of Tim
Lufkin and Ken Alexander, ranked
llth by the ITCA. The dynamic
duo’s biggest win came against
Emory’s Mike Beck / Chris Walser
pair (ITCA No. 18) in the third set
of the South Region No. 1 flight
Championships.

ODDS: 10-1. Sewanee has a lot
of heart, as well as some good ten-
nis players. However, tournament
experience, or lack thereof, may
prove to be their Achilles’ heel in
this year’s title race.

WHITMAN

Walla Walla, Wash.
Season Record: 14-5
ITCA Ranking: No. 9 (16)
Tournament Seed: No. 9

The Whitman Missionaries may
have not played as many matches
as some other programs, but their
schedule, and results, show hidden
strength in this low-seeded team.

Whitman was 4-1 against area
D-I competition, including win-
ning the University of Idaho’s oth-
erwise all D-I tournament. Their
one loss was to the University of
Washington.

In D-III competition, the Mis-
sionaries lost 1-8 to UCSC, and
beat Emory 5-4. Whitman dropped
two very close matches against
tournament participants UCSD and
Claremont, losing each 4-5.
Whitman lost match point at No. 6
against UCSD, and faltered in the
doubles against Emory after jump-
ing to a 4-2 lead after the singles

Head coach Art Furman will
look to his No. | player Eugene
Kim, (ITCA No. 16) who was
17-11, and Phil Ansdell, 23-9 at
No. 2, for team leadership. The
Missionaries, who placed fourth at
the 1986 Championships, have an
added advantage of several experi-
enced international players, as well
as a native son, returning from that
team.

Roberto Carcamo, a Nicaraguan
who finished this year 17-12 at the
No. 3 spot, Canadian Dave Olafs-
son, 23-3 at No. 4 and Jeff.Nor-
tham, 17-11 at No. 6, will offer
experience and direction to their
fellow Missionaries.

ODDS: 12-1. The Missionaries
have a decent prayer of outplaying
their 9th seed, but they will need a
miracle to win the whole show.

L] See Analysis, page 5

 

 

+ *
~

 

~«_—

 

i ‘
‘ ‘
. a
’ ¥
* +
4
s '
4 ’
, ’
‘ s
}
, ! A
|
1 |
.
‘ »
> 4
, 1
' 4

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1988, Page 5

TOURN. CALENDAR

Sunday, May 15
9:30—Coaches Meeting (Team Championship)
nasium-Sth Floor-Room 516 :
12:30—1st Round Preliminary of Team Championships (Top Half of
Draw)
1:00—1st Round Preliminary of Team Championships (Bottom Half of
Draw)

  

 

    

Hobart crushes
‘W&L lacrosse

‘Generals finish season 2-9

Doremus Gym-

 

with only seven seconds gone, making Monday, May 16
the score 10-1. cathe

score 8:45 & 9:00—2nd Round of Team Championships
10:00—9th & 10th Place—VMI Courts

1:45 & 2:00—2nd Round of Team Championships

+, By Jim Lake

wie Reporter W&L scored twice more in the first

half, but those goals by junior attack-
man John Ware with 3:29 left and
Harrison as the horn sounded were
offset by six more Hobart scores that
made it 16-3 and out of reach for
W&L at the intermission.

 

,

The W&L lacrosse Generals ended

their worst season since 1969 Satur-

* day with their ninth straight defeat, a

. 23-6 shellacking by No. 2-ranked Ho-
bart College.

Tuesday, May 17
8:30-3:00—Registration for singles & doubles championships (Athletic
Office-Doremus Gymnasium-Main Office)
8:45-9:00—3rd Round of Team Championships (Consolations)
1:45 & 2:00—3rd Round of Team Championships (semi-finals)

WA

In the second half, the Generals
were shut out 5-0 in the third period
but scored three times in the fourth on
goals by Harrison, senior attackman
Peter Smith and sophomore midfiel-
der Chris Mastrogiovanni. Moseman
had two assists to give him three
points for the game.

The Division If national champions
for the past eight seasons, the States-
‘ men scored the game’s first ten
, goals—all of them in the first quar-

ter—and had locked up a win over the
« 2-11 Generals before W&L even got
_ on the board.

_. And, as the final score indicated,
»‘‘they definitely were the better
' team,’’ said W&L head coach Dennis

 

Aen ane Une

 

 

Sports Photo
Junior Robert Haley will be a key to W&L’s success in the cham-
pionship tournament.

Analysis

Wednesday, May 18
8:30-3:00—Registration for singles & doubles championships (Athletic
Office-Doremus Gymnasium-Main Office)

8:45 & 9:00—4th Round of Team Championships (Sth, 6th, 7th, & 8th
Places)

10:00—Seeding Meeting-Singles & Doubles Championships, Doremus
Gymnasium-Room 516

1:00—Consolation Team Finals-(3rd & 4th Places)

 

the Eagles earned their way to a
tournament berth.

The strength of head coach Don
Schroer’s squad can be seen in the

The only national champion D-III
lacrosse has ever known, Hobart end-

 

: : ) Continued from 4 atid ee 1:30—Championship Team Finals-( 1st & 2nd Places)
Daly. oes eee ee — ee Se ety ae eee 4:00-6:00—Coaches Meeting (Immediately Following Team Cham-
against D-III opponents and a guar- | EMORY | Jimmy “Strauss, who defeated pionships) Doremus Gym-Sth Level-Room 516
“We did play solid for some  anteed trip to the playoffs. Atlanta, Ga. UCSC’s Ron Ward, Whitman’s

7:00—Tournament Banquet-Coaches, Participants, and Officials (Evans
Dining Hall-Washington Street)
9:00—Coaches Meeting (Continued)-Doremus Gymnasium, Room 516

periods of the game, but overall we
' didn’t play the type of game we had
hoped to,”’ he said.

W&L had hoped to control the te-

Season Record: 15-14
ITCA Ranking: No. 11 (4)
Tournament Seed: No. 10

Eugene Kim, and Claremont’s Pete
Gertmenian to up his personal
mark to 15-14.

Schroer describes No. 2

Despite his 2-11 record this season,
Daly’s position as head coach is ‘‘ab-

solutely not’’ in jeopardy, according wen

i wh the athe wad force this Stitee- to W&L Athletic Director William You wouldn't know it by looking Gavin O'Connell as simply ‘‘a $:45.—-1et Round Sina) Tharetay, Sy
men to become impatient offensively, McHenry. at their record, but the Eagles de- very strong player.’’ O’Connell ie sadiiad ‘
according to Daly, but the Hobart “The program suffered this year,”” serve, without hesitation, a bid to comes to the tournament at 20-6, 2:30—1 R a me '
offense was more than up to the chal- the tournament. Emory is alsono including a win over Sewanee’s : oe oe

admitted McHenry, but the W&L AD
said Daly’s critics should keep in
mind that the Generals ‘‘lost a lot of

new-comer to post-season competi- 7:30—Coaches Social-Alumni House

tion, competing as a team in 1984

Tim Lufkin.
Schroer was in favor of the ex-

lenge.

‘‘We never really did execute[our ae mG eee and 1986 tournament action. pansion move by the Selection Friday, May 20
oe pan, Be ad. "Tony gooted test Six of their losses came from Committee. However, he thought 8:45—3rd Round Singles (Round of 16)
within the first minute and then took ‘*We expect to pick ourselves up by competitive D-I programs. Seven that “‘there is a division [in ability] 12:00—Quarter Finals-Singles

On:

Leading the way for the Statesmen
was freshman attacker William Mil-
ler. The Statesmen’s number-two
scorer, Miller decided to attend Ho-
bart after he was not accepted by his
first-choice school—W&L.

Miller, who had not started for Ho-
, bart until Saturday, exploded with 11

the bootstraps and get back to win-
ning,’ said McHenry.

of their remaining eight losses
came from six of the other nine
teams attending this tournament.
Two losses were to Sewanee,
both 4-5 heart-breakers. UCSC,
Kalamazoo, and Washington and
Lee all handed the Eagles 8-1
defeats. Whitman eeked out a close
decision, 5-4, and Claremont beat
Emory 6-3. Playing one of the

between the first six teams and the
next four.’’ He said the benefits
would be better felt in years when
there is more parity, or equality,
among the teams.

ODDS: 12-1. Give the Eagles
credit for doing well under a tough
schedule. The only question is
whether or not Dr. Schroer’s boys

3:00—2nd Round Doubles (Round of 16)

Saturday, May 21
9:00—Semi-finals-Singles
12:30—Quarter-Finals-Singles
2:00—Semi-finals-Doubles

2

e

LAX NOTES—Hobart head coach
Dave Urick is in his 17th season with
the Statesmen, his ninth as head
coach. As a head coach he is 103-25

overall, 24-0 in the NCAA tourna- Sunday, May 22

points (five goals and six assists), up-
ping his season total to 50 points (24
and 26).

After the Statesmen dominated the
first quarter, the Generals started the

| second-period scoring with their first

goal of the day. Freshman attacker
Michael Moseman found the net after

, a pass from senior Sandy Harrison

ment and 8-0 in national champion-
ships.... Checking W&L’s end-of-
season statistics, Ware was the Gen-
erals’ points leader with 38 (19 and
19). Harrison had 27 points (21 and 6)
and finished with a record of 110-106
in faceoffs.... W&L freshman goalie
Tom Costello had 12 saves against
Hobart to give him 88 for the season
and a .524 career save percentage.

most admirable D-III schedules,

 

can patch-up in time to rally to a
great finish.

 

12:30—Finals-Singles (Followed by Finals-Doubles)

 

 

Tennis

 

come out you will see some great ten-
nis.”’

Franke sees the tournament as
having even a greater impact on the
area vol

 

Check the tournament results

in next week’s Phi

**It obviously brings in not otily in-
terest but people into our restaurants
and hotels and generates a lot of
money for the community,’’ he said.
“It gives great exposure to tennis in
the area.”’

In terms of the rewards the cham-
pionship brings to the university,
McHenry says these are immeasura-
ble.

**Anytime you are asked to host an
NCAA event it is an honor and a privi-
lege,’’ he said. ‘‘To do it well just
brings national acclaim. We did it well
before and I have every reason to be-
lieve we will do it well again. It’s
great for the institution.’

What does it take in order to pull it
all off?

“It takes beautiful facilities and
courts, supported by an energetic
staff,’’ said Franke.

uv
(] Continued from page 1

CLASS OF ’88

YOURE INVITED TO ATTEND
| A COMMENCEMENT EXERCISE

 

 

 

 

Valley True Value Hardware

Truk Value

 

HARDWARE sToRES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

 

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,

 

CRUISE SHIPS Lamb, Veal, Italian And
summer a" Gener” Eh otwities Cajun Dishes

(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world
travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean,
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext.
495J.

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

Fine Cuisine
IN AN ATMOSPHERE SUPREME

“Over 50 years of quality food"
STEAKS ¢ SEAFOOD ¢ CHICKEN
GREEK & ITALIAN SPECIALTIES

f+ CANILY OUTSERVICE

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

   

 

1 Mili St
Stauntcn, Va
885-3409

You'll die
laughing

 

 

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close
Reservations suggested

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oJ

| WHERE: (DEALER NAME)
WHEN: MARCH 1, 1988-DECEMBER 31, 1988

 

| FOR: ¢ PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT adh aac > t
6 oe ie PA.
, $400 CASH BONUS FROM FORD aCnringn
If you've graduated, or will grad- must indicate payment made ee
uate, with a Bachelor's or advanced as agreed. Malle caso

caapsaccerttO 37 $ MAIN LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

degree between October 1, 1987
and January 31, 1989, you're
invited to attend a commencement
exercise at{ Courtesy _). You
may qualify for $400 from Ford and
pre-approved credit from Ford
Motor Credit Company. To qualify
for pre-approved credit, you need:
(1) verifiable employment begin-
ning within 120 days after your
vehicle purchase; (2) a salary
sufficient to cover normal living
expenses plus a car payment; and
(3) if you have a credit record, it Program now.

COURTESY az

Ford ¢ Mercury

The $400 from Ford is yours
whether you finance or not. Keep it
or apply it to the purchase or lease
of an eligible Ford or Mercury
vehicle.

For all the details, contact us or
call Program Headquarters, toll
free, at 1-800-321-1536.

But hurry. This limited time offer
is only available between March 1
and December 31, 1988. So take
advantage of the Ford/Mercury
College Graduate Purchase

 

 

The Wake of
Jamey Foster

A Comedy by Beth Henley
Directed by J.D. Martinez

theatre

at Washington & Lee University
May 20, May 21 8:00 pm, May 22 3:00 pm
May 23, May 24, May 25 8:00 pm
For more information and reservations
contact Box Office at 463-8637

See Doug Turrell
W&L °87

 

Ford Motor
Credit
Company

 
  

 

 

 

at Courtesy Ford/Mercury
Buena Vista
for all your new car needs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
=BACK PAGE

 

Words in Edgewise

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1988

Some Pop debuts with a Bang

 

By Marshall Boswell
Staff Reporter

All at once, after a profoundly bleak
and dull year, there are some remar
kably good pop records out there. Re
cords with brains and hearts, not just
groins and pocketbooks. Records
worth the price of a compact disc,
rather than ones only worth taping on
a free sign-it-home-to-mom-and-pop
blank cassette from the bookstore bar
rel. Records that you might actually
play again next fall, instead of tape
over when something new comes
along

And although the chances are slim
that you will actually be able to find
any of these platters in Lexington
these records are nonetheless worth
leaving home for

First up is an album I've personally
been waiting two impatient vears for.
Prefab Sprout’s 7wo Wheels Good is
the only absolutely perfect pop record
I own; there is not one misplaced note
on the whole disk. And I’ve been
wondering if they could do it again.

And they have. Their new one is
called From Langley Park to Memphis
and its only flaw is that it has one less
track than Two Wheels Good. What
does Prefab Sprout sound like? Imag-
ine if George Gershwin wrote songs
with Steely Dan; imagine the Smiths
with Weather Report as a back-up
band; imagine the Partridge Family
crossed with the Beatles.

I could quote lyric after lyric from
this album, but [ll narrow my en-
thusiasm down to few great lines from
‘Cars and Girls,’ a song that won-
ders wonderfully about Bruce Spring-
steen’s concept of life (““Some things
hurt more much more than cars and
girls’): ‘*Little boy got a hot rod; /
Thinks it makes him some kind of new
God.”*’ Multiply that by an infinite and
buy this record.

Frisco’s Bobs to sing at Lime Kiln Arts

 

From Staff Reports

just espousing knee-jerk

 

They’re hip. They're hilarious. And
they're performing in concert just
west of Lexington on May 14.

The Bobs, San Francisco’s Grammy
award-nominated new wave a cappella
group, will be in concert at Lime Kiln
Arts’ Theater for one performance
only: Saturday, May 14, beginning at
8 p.m. t

With their hilariously poignant lyr-
ics and vocal wizardry, The Bobs
have performed on National Public
Radio, MTV and at festivals and con-
cert halls across America and Europe,
and have won an incredible loyal fol-
lowing.

‘The fans are loyal because The
Bobs are, quite simply, one of the best
and most original groups in pop mu-
sic,’ saidThe Oakland (Cal.) Tribune.

The Bobs’ music defines categoriza-
tion. The Los Angeles Times said they
*‘land squarely in the twilight zone be-
tween a barbershop quartet and
Devo.”

Boulder Colorado’s Daily Camera
said they sound like *‘Pee Wee Her-
man on helium, the Beach Boys har-
monizing with the Mormon Taberna-
cle Choir or the Andrews Sister sing-
ing opera with Motley Crue,’’ and
then allowed they really don’t sound
like any of them.

They've also been compared to
1960s satirist Tom Lehrer, the Mills
Brothers, Sly and the Family Stone,
the Manhattan Transfer, Lambert,
Ross and Hendricks, Spike Jones,
Frank Zappa, and Gregorian chanters.

Just why The Bobs are so difficult to
categorize was summed up best by
music critic Jared Rutter. They are, he
said, ‘‘perhaps the strangest vocal
group of all time. The audacity of the
conception, and the way they bring it
off, is dazzling.”

The Church is another group that
has kept me waiting two years for a
new album, and their last one, Heyday
is one of about ten almost perfect pop
records I own. Their latest, Starfish,
isn’t perfect, isn’t quite almost per-
fect, but is definitely almost-almost
perfect, which is close enough.
Whereas on Heyday the Church
brought in a string section, sitars,
horns and a children’s choir to boost
their music into the heavens, Starfish
relies entirely on the angelic commi
ngling of two finely-tuned Ricken
backer guitars soaked in heavy doses
of flanger and chorus to send Steve
Kilbey’s crisp yet ethereal tunes sky
ward.

The theme here is travel of the cos
mic sort, as evidenced on their lush
new single, ‘‘Under the Milky Way,”’
and singer Kilbey announces his aims
on the record’s first line: ‘Our in-
struments have no way to penetrate
this ceiling." From there, Starfish
soars along beautifully and powerfu
lly, the whole thing produced so pris
tinely that the listener can even hear
through the crystalline digital mix
guitarist Marty Wilson-Piper fiddle
with the volume switch on his guitar.

Admittedly, one problem is that all
ten tracks have the identical guitar
sound as their driving force, but when
there isn’t individually a dud in the
whole basket, I can only make that as
a marginal criticism. Key tracks are
‘Milky Way,” “‘Lost,’’ and *‘Hotel
Womb.*’ Yeah, verily I say unto thee,
go thee to Church. Amen.

Now it is time to wax political.
There has not been a decent mix of po-
litics and anthematic rock-n-roll since
the Clash let London Calling out of its
cage, and that includes U2. I’m talk-
ing here about addressing specific is-
sues with intellectual responses, not
humani-
tarianism and wrapping it up as a sell-

ing point. Thank God Midnight Oil's
Diesel and Dust and Ruben Blades’
Nothing But the Truth change all that.
In tact, it is hard to believe that these
two records have emerged in the same

i
year

Midnight Oil first. This record de
buted in the Oil’s homeland, Austra
lia, at Number One. Here, the last
time that happened was with Whitney
Houston. That says something, I
think. And this is not just a harmless
pop record. This is unbelievably
powerful rock-n-roll, like the sort the
Clash and the Jam used to make, that
attacks in no uncertain terms govern
mental brutality toward that nation’s
Aborigines. This theme is most em-
phatically traced out in ‘*Warakurna’’
and ‘*The Dead Heart,”’ two of the
album’s best tracks, but this is not all
that Diesel and Dust is about. There
are songs about more general topics,
like arms control (**Put Down That
Weapon’’) and ecology (*‘Bull
Roarer’’), Singer Peter Garret’s
angry, nasal shout is punctuated em-
phatically by a mix that is so punish-
ing in its percussive thump that the
music threatens to burst right through
your speakers.

Although the specificity with which
Midnight Oil addresses these topics is
admirable, the Aborigine problem in
particular takes on a poignantly uni-
versal tone in these ten blistering
tracks, making us question our own
government's treatment of Indians and
the citizens of Central America. And
you can dance to it too.

Speaking of Central America,
Ruben Blades’ message is
timely now than it ever has been.
Blades is a Panamanian-born §sal-
sa/jazz/pop/whatever superstar
whose Spanish-language recordings
have been both popular (because
Blades is a great songwriter) and con-
troversial (for their outspoken politi-

The Bobs will play Saturday night for Lime Kiln Arts.

‘*There is no precedent for The
Bobs,”’ said critic Larry Kelp.
**Working with no instruments other
than their voices, and no safety net,
The Bobs have almost over night be-
come the hot attraction on the Bay
Area music scene.”’ Their music, he
said, ‘‘proves that four voices can do
far more than has been tried or even
imagined. ”’

With original songs about laundry,
politics, shoes, weather and weath-
ermen, the Beach Boys, cats, apes,
and martial spats over trash, and with
their stunning covers of oldies ranging
from Sam the Sham to Led Zeppelin
tunes, “‘The Bobs are nothing less

than sensational,”’ said the Los Ang-

eles Daily News.
They ‘‘prove that the human voice

remains the most powerful instrument
of all,’’ according to The Washington
Post.

‘I don’t know if they’re Nu-Wave
or even New Wave, but I do know that
their first alhum is the most fun you

more ,

cal bent).

Now Blades--who, by the way, has

a degree in law from Harvard --has
recorded an English album with a few
friends of his, most notably Lou Reed,
Elvis Costello and Sting. The
album, Nothing But the Truth, is a
brilliant mix of tasteful, mature pop
(‘I Can’t Say’*), no-holds-barred sal-
sa ( ‘Chameleons,’ ‘‘The Miranda
Syndrome”), reggae (‘In Salva-
dor’), and anthematic rock (‘‘The
Calm Before the Storm’’). Sting
writes one, Elvis Costello helps on
two, and Lou Reed co- writes three.
But the amazing thing is that Blades’
individual tracks are every bit as fo-
cused and accomplished as the colla-
borations.

Blades’ perspective on today’s is-
sues is fuelled by passion, humor and
a keen intellect. In “‘The Letter,’’ a
young man who writes to a friend who
is dying of AIDS offers these lines as
support: “‘I never was ashamed to be
your pal.’’ In ‘‘Salvador,’’ Blades ob-
serves, ‘‘People who kill have heroes
that piay s<oecer,- '60.—'
**Chameleons,”’ the album’s irresisti-
ble dance number, asks today’s poli-
ticians, ‘*What color are you wearing
today?’’ and warns, ‘‘Use your brain
or someone will use it for you.’” And
in ‘*Ollie’s Doo-Wop,”’ an hysterical
a cappella number that Blades says is
supposed to be performed by a bunch
of members of the NSC in the White
House bathroom, these lines send a
resounding message home: ‘‘We’ll
make sure there’s no war with Nicar-
agua--just humanitarian deaths.’’ This
is not some primped up rock star talk-

,ing, nor is it an out-of-touch poli-
tician: this is a Harvard educated mu-
sician and activist who is also a citizen
of the area this country claims to know
how to defend. Every neo-Fascist
conservative in this country needs to
buy this album. ‘Nuff said.

 

File Photo

can have with a round piece of plastic
since the Hula-Hoop,’” said critic
John Harden.

Tickets to The Bobs concert at The
Kiln are $10. For more information,
call (703) 463-3074.

 

Calendar

Friday, May 13
Medical Ethics Institute (through May 15).
Noon—Army ROTC Cadet/Cadre Softball Game. Upper Athletic Field
3 p.m.—Army ROTC Freshman-Sophomore Social. For information,
call 463-8480.

8 p.m.—MEDICAL ETHICS LECTURE: “‘AIDS Vaccine De-

velopment: Ethical Considerations,’’ Robert T. Schooley, M.D., W&L «

“70. Classroom **E,”* Lewis Hall. Public invited.

‘ Saturday, May 14
7:30 p.m.—BIRDWALK: Led by Peter Bergstrom, W&L biology de-
partment. Meet at north end of Woods Creed parking lot (near W&L
law school) and bring binoculars. Public invited.

Sunday, May 15
12:30 & 1 p.m.—MEN’S TENNIS: NCAA DIVISION II] TOURNA-
MENT (through May 22): Preliminary team championship round. Var-
sity Courts.

Monday, May 16
All Day—MEN’S TENNIS: NCAA TOURNAMENT: Quarterfinals of
team championships (matches at 9 & 9:45 a.m., 1:45 & 2 p.m.) Varsity
Courts.
3 p.m.—PSYCHOLOGY COLLOQUIUM: **Was Eddie Right? On the
Future of Industrial and Organizational Psychology,’’ B. von Haller
Gilmer, professor emeritus, Carnegie-Mellon University. Room 318,
Tucker Hall. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.—'HUMAN RIGHTS NOW!’ EVENT: Panel Discussion:
Rt.Rev.and Mrs. Benoni Ogwal, Rev.and Mrs. Neville Richardson.
Northern Auditorium, University Library. Sponsored by Amnesty
International. Public invited.
8 p.m.—JAPENESE FILM FESTIVAL: The Makioka Sisters. Room
327, Commerce School.

Tuesday, May 17
All Day—MEN’S TENNIS: NCAA TOURNAMENT: Consolation and
semi-finals of team championship (matches at 8:45 and 9 a.m., 1:45 & 2
p.m.) Varsity Courts.
3 p.m.—COMPUTER SCIENCE COLLOQUIUM: ‘The Mr. S and
Mr. P Puzzle With Prologue Solution,’’ Thomas P. Whaley, W&L
professor of computer science. Room 25, Robinson Hall. Refreshments
at 2:30 in Room 21. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.—'HUMAN RIGHTS NOW!’ EVENT: Panel Discussion:
W&L professors David Parker and Greg Stanton, Mary Baldwin profes-
sor Gordon Bowen. Room 327, Commerce School. Sponsored by Am-
nesty International. Public invited.

Wednesday, May 18
All Day—MEN’S TENNIS: NCAA TOURNAMENT: Consolation and
semi-finals of team championship (matches at 8:45 & 9 a.m.) Finals of
team championship (1 & 1:30 p.m.) Varsity Courts.
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: The Eagle Has Landed. Room
327, Commerce School.
8 p.m.—LECTURE and POETRY READING: Dennis Silk, Israeli
poet. Northern Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

Thursday, May 19
Board of Trustees Meeting.
All Day—MEN’S TENNIS: NCAA TOURNAMENT: First and second
reund singles, first round doubles.
7 p.m.—‘HUMAN RIGHTS NOW!’ EVENT: Amnesty International
Open Meeting. Arlington Women’s Center.
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: The Eagle Has Landed. Room
327, Commerce School.
8 p.m.—CONTACT LECTURE: Michael Deaver, former deputy chief
of staff for Reagan administration. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

 

 

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. Something Under the Bed fs Droofing, by Bill Watterson.
(Andrews, McMeel & Parker $6.95.) Latest Calvin & Hobt-es cartoons.

2. Fine Things, Danielle Steel. (Dell, $4.95.)
pr A of a son of the 60's through the 80's.

3. The Prince of Tides, by Pat Conroy. (Bantam, $4 95.) The beauty
of South Carolina and the dusty gifter of New York City.

4. Calvin and Hobbea, by Bil Watterson. (Andrews, McMeel &
Parker, $5.95.) Cartoons about the life of a lithe boy.

5. Communion, by Whitey Strieber. (Avon, $4.95)
Visitors from outer space.

6. Bolt, by Dick Francis. (Fawcett, $4.95.) Famous jockey deals with
famity feud, arms-seffing intrigue and romantic crises.

7. The Undesrabdle of Being, by Milan Kundera. (Harper &
Row, $8.95.) Embracing the elusiveness of choice and change.

8. The Fatal Shore, by Robert Hughes. (Vintage, $10.95.) Australia -
from penal colony fo flourishing nation.

9. Texasville, by Larry McMurtry. (Pocket, $4.95.)
Sequel to The Last Picture Show.

10. Women who Love too Much, by Robin Norwood. (Pocket, $4.50.)
How to avoid the pitfalls of unhealthy reiatonships.

 

 

 

 

 

Adoption

Let us give a happy home and secure future for
the baby you love but cannot keep. We have a
wonderful marriage of 7 years, but cannot have
our own children. We will cover legal and medi-
cal expenses to help you during this difficult
time.

Please call collect for Betsy or Don (703)
536-3612.

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

,

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

[UOUEUUNENUEEENEROOGOAOEREREOOOEOEEAUUEUUEEEEOCUUUEUEED OPER EECEEEEEEUE TECTED EES

S visits $29.00
| Manicures 10 visits $49.00 Ultra Pointe with Overlay
20 visits $89.00

Merle Norman Cosmetics

M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

rice Cosmetic Sale
Tanning Beds

 

     
     
    
   
   
 
 

ee
eorge’s Hairstylis
since 1963

directly behind Leggett’s
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

 
 

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Pau! Mitchell

_

 

Rooms for Rent

 

 

 

Singles, Doubles and Triples available
in large fraternity house adjacent to campus.

Ist Visit Free |
Te

Available for the ’88-’89 academic year.

 

Wendell's
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

All Seniors

Please report your offers and placement for
next year (jobs, graduate study, etc.) to Ca-
reer Development & Placement Office.

 

 

 

 

 

Parking available. Competitive Rents.

For More Information Contact:

Larry Mann, Attorney at Law
463-7119

 
 

     
   
   
    
  
