VOLUME 87, NUMBER 17

 

 

King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 11, 1988

 

 

 

New ordinance approved;
LaRue casts lone ‘no’ vote

 

By Alan Greeter
Staff Reporter

 

 

101° in the shade

Assistant Head Dorm Counselor Jeff Harwood spikes the ball past counselors Vanessa Hartmann and Benny Sav-
age in an early-morning volleyball game. The counselors braved the cold to set up for the Bahamas in February

brunch for freshmen. See story, page 3.

Superdance ‘sucessful’

despite low turnout

 

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

 

Although participation was down
from last year, the Superdance for the
Muscular Dystrophy Association was
successful in raising $24,159 last Sat-
urday.

Co-chairmen Greg Knapp and
Chuck Husting, along with the mem-
bers of the Superdance Committee,
provided the music of the Waxing
Poetics and IBM from Atlanta for the
evening entertainment. The Battle of
the Bands held in the afternoon was a
well-received addition to the Super-
dance as well.

The contest consisted of five local
bands including Red, Black and Blue
and the Suspects, a law school band.

Green Eggs and Ham captured Ist
place, while Small Republic came in
second, followed by the Convertibles
in 3rd place. Not only did the local
bands show support for MDA but also
received exposure in the W&L com-
munity.

According to co-chairman Chuck
Husting, ‘‘the Battle of the Bands
made the Superdance this year.’” It
was a new idea that added a lot to the
event and attracted undergraduate and
law students as well as people from

Wilson travels

to England
for fall ’89

From Staff Reports

 

 

W&L President John D. Wilson
will spend the fall semester of the
1988-89 academic year at Oxford
University in England on an adminis-
trative leave that he was granted by
the university s board of trustees.

During Wilson’s absence, John W.
Elrod, vice-president for academic af-
fairs, will serve as acting president.

‘During the five years he has ser-
ved as Washington and Lee’s presi-
dent, John Wilson has devoted an
extraordinary amount of time and
energy to the institution,’” said James
M. Ballengee of Philadelphia, rector
of the board of trustees. ‘*We thought
that he deserved some time away from
the endless duties of the presidency in
order to reflect on the university and
its future as well as the future direc-
tion of American higher education.”

Although this is the first time that a
Washigton and Lee president has been
granted such a leave, Ballengee noted
that several colleges and universities
have given their chief executives such
opportunities in recent years.

Wilson’s plan for the leave are not
yet complete, but he does hope to
spend most of the tine at Exeter Col-
lege of England’s Oxford University
Phat will represent 1 homecoming of
sorts for Wilson, wh) studied English
literature at Exeter in 1953 as a
Rhodes Scholar.

the community and other schools as
well.

During the Battle of the Bands, a
dance contest was held in which VMI
Cadet Craig Streeter won first place.
He was awarded a weekend for two at
the Hotel Roanoke. Several organiza-
tions were awarded for their efforts
also.

Kathekon won a season ski pass at
Massenutten for the most pledges do-
nated by an organization, while Phi
Delta Theta won a weekend for two at
the Williamsburg Hilton for the most
pledges from a fraternity.

Other dancers were awarded for
their efforts as well. Law student
Chris O’Brien won a week in Hilton
Head, South Carolina, for the most
overall pledges. Freshman Doug
Denby, who brought in the second
most pledges was awarded a weekend
for two at the Greenbriar Hotel.

Faculty sponsor Fontaine Bostic
was pleased with the Superdance in
general and feels it was truly a success
despite the decrease in participation
from last year.

The number of dancers was approx-
imately 60 less than last year and the
number of spectators decreased by
200. Also, tickets were only $5 this
year as opposed to $8 last year.

By Perry Hayes/ The Ring-tum Phi

The city ordinance allowing up to
four unrelated individuals to live as a
single family unit was approved 4-]
by Lexington City Council Thursday
night.

The dissenting vote was cast by
Councilwoman Sue LaRue, who co-
sponsored the ordinance with Coun-
cilman Jim Mays.

After presenting the ordinance to
the council, LaRue moved that the de-
finition of family be reduced from
four unrelated individuals to three in
single family zones.

The motion was not seconded and
died along with the amendments pre-
sented in the minority report by Coun-
cilman A.C. Jordan, who was not pre-
sent at the meeting.

The amendments listed in the min-
ority report asked that.the definition of
a family remain at the present num-
ber, two, and that the stay of enforce-

 

Senior Tommy McBride gives IFC President Mark Farley a pie in
the face. McBride bid an $80 donation for the honor at last week’s

Superdance.

Considering those differences, the
amount of money raised this year was
substantial.

Husting also attributes part of the
decrease to the fact that the Super-
dance was dry. However, the Super-
dance is not the only event that has
lost support due to no alcohol. Like
Bostic, Husting was pleased with the

By Mathew Horridge/ W&L News Office

Superdance. He felt the committee

‘‘worked real hard and did well in

terms of what was brought in.””

Due to a busy schedule on Saturday
night, the Fancy Dress Dream week-
end raffle was not held. The winner
will be drawn on Thursday, February
Il.

 

es

 

 

 

 

bile Photo

John W. Elrod, vice president of academic affairs, will serve as acting president next
fall while president John D. Wilson is at Oxford University.

His presence at Oxford will also be
the latest in an active exchange pro
gram that Washington and Lee has es
tablished with that institution. In re
cent years, W&L faculty members
have taken up residence at Univ. Col
lege of Oxford for durations ranging
from a semester to an entire year
while Oxford faculty members have
come to Lexington to teach and con

duct research. Additionally, the two
institutions Operate an exchange pro
gram for students

“T look upon this as a marvelous
opportunity to step back from the de
tails of every day and take a broader
view of the educational enterprise that
is Washington and | Wilson said

“T will not pretend to try in two

months to restore or rec apture my in

terest in Shakespeare or the 16th cen
tury, but I do hope to do some substan
tive work on issues involving Ameri
can higher education.”

He added that ‘‘the stimulation of
colleagues in another university set
ting’ will help him to examine where
American higher education ts and “‘to
contemplate what the next years of
Washington and Lee should include

 

ment to existing rental units end on
June 30, 1989.

The amnesty period in the approved
ordinance allow property owners until
June 30, 1990, to comply with the
new standards.

However, the stay of enforcement
on existing rental units does not deny
the city’s right to revoke the stay and
enforce the ordinance in response to
subsequent violations concerning sani-
tation, trash or other miscellaneous
offenses listed in the city’s code.

The approved ordinance also pro-
vides a conditional use provision al-
lowing up to eight unrelated indivi-
duals to live in a house as a single fam-
ily, if the property meets certain re-
quirements.

Those requirements include that the
house have at least one bedroom per
occupant, adequate off-street parking
and adhere to the Building Officials
and Code Administrators Existing
Structures Code.

In response to a citizen’s question,
Mayor Charles F. Phillips, said that

the responsibility of enforcing the new
ordinance would be in the hands of the
city building and zoning administra
tor.

Public and council discussion on the
ordinance was limited by Phillips,
who said that between council and the
Planning Commission the issue had
been completely discussed.

Councilman Larry Mann addressed
the importance and scope of the ordin-
ance. “By approving this ordinance
we are making a commitment to en-
force the other ordinances already on
the books,”’ he said.

Looking in retrospect on the family
definition issue which lasted some
three months, Councilman Mays said
that he was amazed at the unwilling-
ness of people to serve on committees
and commissions.

‘*We have a real problem,’’ Mays
said, ‘‘people are afraid that they will
be put in a position to be criticized.”

Mays said he believed council was
not taking full advantage of the
knowledge found in the Lexington
community.

Underground magazine
to surface after vaction

 

By Cheryl Bowles
Staff Reporter

 

An underground publication created
by W&L students will be distributed
throughout Lexington the week after
Washington Holiday, according to
Dave Daves, a third-year sophomore.

Daves described himself as being
responsible for selling advertisement
and getting the magazine published.

When asked what the publication is
called, Daves replied, ‘‘It’s a secret.”’

According to Daves, the magazine
has three sections: literature, arts, and
journalism.

The literature section in the first is-
sue will contain a play along with
short stories and poetry.

Daves said that the arts section
covers bands from Virginia and the
Washington, D.C. area as well as
bluegrass music.

The journalism section will contain
articles not just about W&L, but about
the Lexington community, said
Daves.

The first issue will contain an article
about ‘‘the so- called liberal arts
school that this is,” Daves explained,
among others.

The new publication has a staff of
more than 20 students, who work in
what Daves calls an open forum.
Anyone can submit material, and

anyone is welcome to heip edit the
magazine, he said.

W&L’s lack of a credible news-
paper is what Daves said prompted the
creation of the underground maga-
zine, so described because it receives
no financial help from the university.

According to Daves, W&L needs a
paper that focuses more on the com-
munity of Lexington, which he says is

‘*so much a part of this school.’’ The
support he has gotten from the com-
munity shows him, he said, that a lot
of other people feel the same way.

“‘Occasionally maybe we'll be fo-
cusing on some of the same issues as
the Ring-tum Phi,’ said Daves, ‘‘but I
hope with a lot more credibility.”’

Daves said that some of the articles
that have run in the Ring-tum Phi,
such as a story that rated the ‘‘best
buzz per buck,’’ for example, made
him say that the paper is not credible.

‘*The Talk-Back section is probably
the most popular section in the Ring-
tum Phi,’’ he added.

When asked about competition re-
sulting from the possible revival of the
humor magazine ‘‘Southern Colle-
gian’’, Daves replied that he does not
think it will be possible for that pub-
lication to come back.

“It [the Southern Collegian| would
be the hardest type of magazine to
come back with,’’ Daves speculated.
‘‘Good satire is the hardest thing to
write.””

W&L senior is suspended
for actions at Sweet Briar

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-Editor

 

Mare Gordon, a W&L senior, was
suspended for the rest of the 1987-88
academic year by the Student Conduct
Committee in its meeting Tuesday,
Feb. 2. The suspension, which is
effective immediately, is the result of
Gordon’s actions on Jan. 21 at Sweet
Briar College.

The decision was reviewed and
upheld by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee in its regular meeting Feb. 3,
according to Lewis John, Chairman of
the SAC. Gordon had not appealed the
SCC’s decision. The SAC regularly
reviews the cases heard before the
SCC.

The Student Affairs Committee can

aliitin the decisivn oi tie SCL, or ‘tue
pon the appeal of a student, it can re-
duce the penalty,”’ or, if it feels the
penalty is not harsh enough, it can
send the case back to the SCC for re-
consideration, said John.

Penalties for major offenses can be:
suspension for a specific period of
time, expulsion, or, if ‘‘there are un-
usual extenuating circumstances, then
some lesser penalty may be im-
posed, ”’ said John.

‘There is also a specific provision
that voluntary intoxication is not to be
considered an extenuating circum
stance,”’ said John.

Gordon declined comment on the
specifics of the case.

Gordon is eligible to apply for
readmission to the university for the
fall term of the 1988-89 academic
year.

Camden’s trial date is set

 

By Betsy Parkins
Staff Reporter

 

The trial date of Michael Wayne
Camden of Glasgow, Virginia, will be
scheduled this coming Monday in
Rockbridge County Circuit Court,

Camden indicted Feb. |
several charges, including malicious
wounding and assault and battery of

Was on

W&L student Pietro Petino.

Last Oct. 18 Camden and Petino
were involved in a fight at the Chi Psi
fraternity house at W&L. According
to police reports, after Camden re-
fused to leave the fraternity house, Pe
tino stepped in to remove Camden

In the ensuing fight, Petino and
Camden were both cut. Camden was
later arrested at Stonewall
Hospital where he
treatment for his cuts

Jackson

Was receiving
 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1988

 

Revise

At last Monday’s Executive Committee meeting there was a
meeting of applicants for the White Book Revisions. With about 17
students applying for 10-12 positions, it is obvious that interest has
risen since fall term, when plans for the committee had to be post-
poned because of a lack of applicants. Now that students have been
better informed about the committee and what it is intended to do.

The committee will review the White Book, which is the formal
structure for the Honor System, and submit changes the committee
are necessary, if any, to the EC for consideration as a revision. The
EC assured the applicants that the findings of the committee will
carry a heavy weight when the EC considers them.

The applicants were urged by junior representative Christopher
deMovellan to remember that the committee is not required to find
things to change in the White Book and not to be reluctant to submit
a report calling for no changes. A good piece of advice, since no
one wants an open season on the Honor System that could result in
radical changes in the Honor System in a short span of time.

However, we want to remind the committee, when it is formed
and begins meeting, that it also must not be afraid to criticize some-
thing in the White Book that may be flawed. Perfection is a wonder-
ful goal, especially in a system as idealistic as this on at W&L, but
not easily attained, if attainment is even possible. But pursuing per-
fection is something to be admired, and if changes in the White
Book will bring the system one step closer, then those changes need

to be considered.

We wish the revisions committee and the EC luck in its work. We
are confident that discussing the White Book in detail will shed val-
uable light on the Honor System, whether or not changes are made.

Date rape explained

by Landers column

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

In recent weeks I took readers to
the unadulterated frontiers of the fu-
ture with my ignorant predictions. In
this article I will take readers into the
exciting realm of the past, portraying
ignorance unsurpassed by any journa-
list since the French Revolution.

My first task is to choose a major
historical event. I could take you to
the front line of the most important
battle during the fourth century, the
Indonesian War for Canine Indepen-
dence —The Milkbone Retreat. I
could even take you to the flea-
infested headquarters of great military

Strategist and obedience champion
Brutus Beefcake (important trivia
note: my dog is a direct descendent of
this Canine General) as he struggles
against the Pit Bull Corp’s demand for
more Kibbles and Bits. A few of these
insurgent Pit Bulls have even begun
barking Coup D’ Etat.

The only problem with the fourth
century Indonesian War for Canine
Independence is that no self-
respecting historians have written
books, journals and encyclopedias
about it. I want to take the reader
where no historian has even gone be-
fore.

Just because historians have not
written on the event, I just don’t as-
sume that it’s nota major historical
event. In fact, most Americans have
probably already heard of the soon-to-
be famous ‘‘Date Rape Bet’’ because
it was recently sent to Ann Landers in
the form of a letter that she published;
and let’s face it, America gets its in-
formation from Ann Landers, not The
Wall Street Journal.

Allow me to describe the letter. It
was written by an elderly gentleman
from Florida who claimed to be tired
of hearing statistics about date rape
because he had experimental evidence
that date rape is impossible. Here's

 

BUSINESS STAFF

Is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

 
 

eg TTT PEE LTT RRL ee ee Rhona Hughes

cob eececcceveccecedens Christie Champlin
Ceborgeredeveboveccccercdes Eddie Klank

Advertising Manager. .........-6..ceeeeeee
Circulation Manager ..... 66.666. cece eeees

The Ring4um Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24458, This newspaper observes current court

the exciting evidence; when the
gentleman was 19 (approximately
1942) a female bet him five dollars
that he could not rape her. She even
gave him the advantage by allowing
that both parties would start naked. By
now the reader is probably wondering
what can be learned from this histori-
cal event. The answer is nothing. Will
I analyze it anyway? Yes.

Important Historical Facts

1. Your grandparents had more fun
than you.

2. The gentleman was much smar-
ter: At worst he was paying five dol-
lars to wrestle a naked (possibly)
beautiful woman. At best his labor
could earn him five dollars (and I
imagine he would even enjoy the
labor). Stop! The Ring-tum Phi Cen-
sur Committee interrupts this article
for an important announcement. Mr.
Sbar’s rendition of Ann Lander’s
well-written newspaper article in no
way represents the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi staff. In fact, we think
he should be tortured slowly until
death for writing in such poor taste.

Now, I will reenact the conversation
which probably led to the Date Rape
Bet. Scene I, Act I. (It is one of those
unbearably hot days which Floridians
call summer in July. Buford sets on
the porch with Lilly-Ann drinking
lemonade and sweating).

Buford: Did ya see that thar news-
paper piece on Sally Fairfax bein’
rapeded by ur beau—Jim Crowley-
field a night past in the Fairfax barn?

Lilly-Ann; Why Buford you must
be stupider than I ever reckoned. Why
the only girl who can be date-rapeded
is a girl who wants to. That thar news-
paper article is hogwash just as sure as
I’m a sitin on a porch with an ignor-
anus by the name of Buford Brown
and drinkin lemonade and sweatin.

Buford: So what yuse sayin Lilly-
Ann is that I cudn’t date- raped yu if a
was to want to rite now.

Lilly-Ann: Why Buford you cudn’t
raped me if we both started naked. Id
even be willin to wager the five bucks

(See Sbar, Page 3

sritenepeeeeeeeeeeesreeerreeee Stephen Ingram

Jason Faust

Generation changes university

 

MY VIEW

By Barney Robinson

and Buck Wiley

 

As members of the class of 1988
we've seen quite a few changes during
our time here at Washington and Lee.
In the September of 1984 we enrolled
in a small, competitive, all-male lib-
eral arts school. Washington and Lee
seemed the perfect place, a last bas-
tion if you will.

It soon became apparent that we had
entered a university under fire. The
faculty, administration, and the new
‘‘neutral’’ President were determined
to wreak massive change. The radical
acid generation of the 1960s has now
come of age. They are entering posi-
tions of power on college campuses
and are determined to implement their
leftist philosophy. To them, W&L
was an atrocious anachronism. It was
a target too tempting to resist. With a
methodical single-mindedness, they
proceeded resolutely to destroy the
character of our school, one that was
bequeathed us by Robert E. Lee.

Single sex was the first casualty.
After several failed attempts, coeduca-
tion was instituted. In a move to avert
school protest, the actual decision of
the trustees was postponed until July
when all the young ‘‘fascists’’ were
safely at home. Of course it was in our
“‘best interest’’, though. (Remember,
college age children don’t know
what's best for them.) Regardless of
the validity of their reasons, this was
round one in the fight to transform our
school.

Soon everything began to change.
Our beloved Cockpit became the
“General Headquarters.’’ On the
lighter side, even Coca- Cola was re-
moved from the Co-op (excuse us,
University Snack Bar). The new buzz
word of equality became a shroud for
the real policy of preferential treat-
ment for females. Fraternities came
under fire for their allegedly ‘‘disrup-
tive role’’ in our academic life, and
the IFC has seen its power destroyed
by a meddling faculty. The IFC has
become nothing but a facade that
projects the illusion of student self-
government. Will the student-run
Honor System be the next victim of
administration intervention?

The target of these changes was the
stereotypical W&L student. Preppy,
affluent, and conservative, he became
a wanted man. To the love children of
the 1960s, he respects all that they de-

spise. As in most educational institu-
tions, our faculty andi administration
are liberal. Once a faculty member
was overheard to say, *‘Their parents
have had 18 years to indoctrinate
them, I wish we had more than 4 to
undo the damage. *’

We foresee frightening years ahead.
Unless they conform to the Washing-
ton Hall's ‘‘ideal,’’ fraternities will
vanish from the scene. Washington
and Lee will have non-selective, coed
eating Clubs just like Davidson. Social
life will degenerate and we will see the
dissolution of one of W&L's greatest
strengths, the ability to promote matu-
rity by providing us with choices.

The school’s very name must be
offensive to the agenda- minded junta.
To them, General Washington must
be a dangerous militaristic figure, cer-
tainly not a good role model for young
gentlemen and ladies. In addition, Lee
may awake images of sectionalism
and racism to the uninformed. Might
the Board quietly ask the Lee family to
remove the cadavers from the chapel?
Then with much fanfare, they could
rededicate it as a shrine to sexual
equality. Subsequently, the Univer-
sity’s name would have to go. Perhaps
the powers that be will rename it after
some great paragon of liberation such
as Susan B. Anthony. That has a nice
ring to it, Susan B. Anthony Univer-
sity.

The Admissions Office people will
play a large role in this rape. A con-
certed attempt to recruit a more
“‘diverse’’ student body is already
under way. We're sure they would
love to purge future freshmen classes
of the ‘‘reactionary bourgeoisie’’ to
which so many of us belong—in their
eyes. What they want are ‘‘open min-
ded’” intellectuals, students with an
narrow desire for the single-minded —
pursuit of arid knowledge.

In these years of self-condemnation,
Washington Hall has forgotten that a —
real education is much broader than
the pursuit of knowledge alone. The .
forte of our once great University was
its ability to strengthen character. If a
student could succeed under the many
pressures and temptations of W&L, he
was assured of ease of assimilation
into the real world, a world that is not
a sheltered academic enclave.

Unfortunately, it may be too late to
stop the rot that is consuming our
school. Day by day, regulation by re-
gulation, the responsibility we were
once allowed is taken from us. Wash-
ington and Lee is becoming more di- ;
verse, yet at the expense of its es-
sence. The character of our school is
dying, and unless alumni and students
fight back its only legacy will be the
fond memories we cherish in our ~
minds.

To the editors:

As a senior looking back over my four years at
Washington and Lee, many found memories come
to mind. I’m sure that all of you will carry memor-
ies of W&L with you for the rest of your lives.
What I would like to do is describe a Washington
and Lee that many of you may not know—a Wash-
ington and Lee that existed four years ago. Sadly,
a school that perhaps only my fellow seniors and
W&L alumni might know.

As freshmen, we realized that we were now
making decisions on our own. It was a process of
trial and error. We realized the importance of
budgeting our time effectively. We knew that the
next four years would be a difficult road, involv-
ing much hard work and studying. We learned
when to stay in and study and when to go out and
party. All students here have a right to be proud of
their hard work. No one can argue with the fact
that Washington and Lee is one of the finest
schools in America. While at W&L, we have also
made many friends. All this remains the same.

Like many other Washington and Lee students,
I went through Rush as a freshman. It was a great
time, a time when I met new and different people.
I joined a fraternity and suddenly found myself a
member of a ‘‘pledge class’’—a group of students
who at first, had little in common. As our fresh-
man year progressed, we became closer. Our
friendships grew as we spent time together, both
inside and outside the classroom. In the process,
we matured.

Fraternities have long been an integral part of
W&L. Four years ago, fraternities were allowed
to serve various types of alcohol at their Rush par-
ties and regular parties. They were allowed to
have kegs on Wednesdays and on weekends,
when fraternities held open parties for all W&L
students to attend. These were times when stu-
dents could kick back and do what they wanted
with their friends. Students could be spontaneous
in deciding what to do. As all of you may sadly
know, all this has changed. No longer are we al-
lowed to have ‘‘hard’’ alcohol at any of our par-
ties. No longer are we allowed to have kegs on
Wednesdays and many of our parties have now
become B. Y.O.B. No longer are we allowed to
advertise our parties. The university has decided,
instead, that we must now personally hand out in-
vitations saying something like ‘‘I Joe W&L in-
vite you Mary Sweetbriar to our party this week-
end.””

What is our faculty thinking? Do they realize
that college is a learning experience, both aca-
demically and socially, an experience which hope-
fully leads us to a higher level of maturity. The
ability to make our own decisions is what separ-
ates high school from college. Some of our de-
cisions will be good and some will be bad. The
important thing is that in the process of making
decisions, we learn. The faculty of this university
has decided that we will be treated as adults in the
classroom but that in a social setting, that we will
be treated as children. No longer are we able to
act as individuals or be spontaneous. Students no
longer have the freedom they once had.

Last week, the faculty went a step further. They
took Rush away from the IFC. They also decided
that pledge activities will not begin until Winter
Term and that pledge programs can only last eight
weeks. Why did they do this?

It is apparent that they believe that fraternities
take too much time away from freshman aca-
demics. When you think about it, however, most
pledges spend at the most one or two hours per
week at their chapter house for meetings. Did the
university consider sports teams or extracurricu-
lar activities when they thought about freshmen?
No. Did the university say that all freshmen
couldn’t participate in any type of activity until
they established themselves academically? No.
After all, many sports teams practice up to three
hours per day. How often does an athlete come
home so tired after a practice, that he or she
doesn’t feel like doing’ homework? Why did the
university single out fraternities as being the sole
source of their ‘‘apparent’’ problem? If a fresh-
man cannot budget one hour out of his entire week
to spend at a fraternity, there is no way he is going
to be able to spend twenty to thirty hours per week
studying for his classes.

LETTE

With their decisions concerning parties, the
pledge program and Rush, the faculty of this uni-
versity has taken away one of the most important
aspects of ‘‘college:’’ the ability of students to
make decisions. If we can’t make our own de-
cisions, how will we ever become mature adults?
High school, not college, was the time to be led
around by the hand. We learn by trial and error
and for us, the time to learn is now.

I’m sorry to say, but I’m glad that I am graduat-
ing this year, because Washington and Lee is not
the same school it was four years ago. W&L was a
school that afforded us the opportunity to excel
academically and to make our own decisions.
Now we only have the academics. We no longer
enjoy the personal freedom we once did. It is un-
fortunate that our faculty, supposedly educated
and well-rounded individuals, fail to see thé’ im-
portance of having the freedom to make our own
decisions and in the process, to becomé more ma-
ture and responsible ‘‘individuals.”’

Craig Keanna
Class of 1988

Bad decision

To the Editors:

I know you have heard from me many times
over the past four years, but the decision by the
‘*faculty’’ to leave the IFC out of the Rush
process until their ‘‘freshman year study’’ is com-
plete has forced me to write yet another letter.

When I found out at last week’s IFC meeting
the decision by the ‘‘faculty,’’ I sat back and
thought, now who is the ‘‘faculty’’ that is making
these decision about fraternities and fraternity
Rush. The only member of the faculty that has
spoken out for the faculty against fall fraternity
rush to my knowledge is Professor William Lad
Sessions and his faculty petition.

Now to me, fraternities and faculty members
are on two different levels of thinking about
fraternity Rush, but we should both be pressing
toward the same goal: improvement of the frater-
nity Rush process. The IFC should be involved in
the Rush process at W&L because they are logi-
cally the best informed. The faculty, on the other
hand, is the least informed because the majority of
them were not in fraternities at the universities
they attended and if they were it was in a totally
different time period. You might say that we as
the faculty gave complete control to the Student
Affairs Committee. Well that doesn’t help the si-
tuation out much either because that committee
consists of ten members. They are Dean John,
Dean Atkins, Professors Margand, Koberstein,
and Warren, the President of the Student Bar As-
sociation, the President of thé Student Body, the
President of the Senior Class, the Head Dorm
Counselor, and the President of the IFC.

The reason I listed the members of the SAC was
to point out realistically who is qualified to make
decisions about W&L fraternity Rush. First,
Professors Margand and Koberstein are both
women and for that fact alone are not qualified
because they don’t know what it is like being in a
fraternity. Even if they were in a sorority, frater-
nities are totally different. Next, comes the Presi-
dent of the Student Bar Association and the Head
Dorm Counselor. Both of these people don’t care
one way or the other about fraternities. Why? Be-
cause one is a law student and the other has been
out of the fraternity scene for two years as a dorm
counselor. This leaves us with Dean Atkins and
the President of the IFC as the most informed
about fraternities. The vote being 4 not qualified
to vote, 2 qualified to vote, and one faculty mem-
ber, Dean John, the President of the Student
Body, and the President of the Senior Class.

I have difficulties with the W&L fraternity
system being decided by people who aren’t a part
of it. I have along with the other 16 house presi-
dents and the members of the IFC busted my tail
making this past year’s Rush work, and we have
been slapped in the face by the faculty's decision.
W&L has run just fine through the years under

Student describes the lost Washington and Lee

student government, as a matter of fact we as a
university pride ourselves on it.

Instead of forming some study on the freshman
year committee, why don’t you make up a com-
mittee of House Corporation Presidents and
Fraternity Presidents along with SAC to decide
the fate of our beloved fraternities. These people
are informed! We have been working together on
the Fraternity Renaissance Plan and somebody
needs to realize this.

Sincerely,
Tommy McBride

Excellence is faster

Dear Editors:

In their recent best seller, The Search of Excel-
lence, Peters & Waterman listed a number of ac-
tions that contribute to the success of ad hoc task
forces in excellent companies. These include a
small number of volunteer individuals (10 or less)
pulled together rapidly when needed, with a very
limited duration (less than 4-6 months) as well as
other factors (see pg. 129-130).

If our university is to remain excellent, and if it
is truly on a quest for an excellent fraternity
system, the upcoming ad hoc study relating to ‘‘all
facets of the freshman year’’ should not be sched-
uled to be completed in the early 1990s as report-
ed in last week’s Phi, but rather in January of
1989. By spreading out a study such as this over a
period of years, students’ input & impact may
have little coherence or continuity as student
leaders graduate year after year.

Only through dedicated dialogue between
fraternity leaders and concerned faculty members
can these problems, such as Rush, be resolved to
mutual satisfaction and continued success both for
the University and its fraternity system. Set up a
committee, let it meet every two weeks in March,
April, Sept., Oct., Nov., & Dec. and report its
findings in January of 1989 and settle the issue. It
is in all of our interests if we are committed to
excellence in academics and the fraternity renais-
sance movement.

Sincerely,
William C. Datz

Gordon says good-bye

To my fellow students and friends:

I had hoped this letter was not going to be a
good-bye, but please take what I have to say to
heart.

On January 21 I headed down to Sweet Briar
with five fraternity brothers of mine. We drank a
lot and only had good times on our mind. After
drinking to extreme intoxication, my behavior be-
came so deplorable that I was escorted to my car
and drove home. I don’t remember most of the
evening and was in no condition to be on the road.
Upon returning to W&L, I was served a notice by
the Student Conduct Committee. There are accu-
sations to which I can not respond; I can not re-
member.

Based on all of the facts and testimony concern-
ing my actions, the Student Conduct Committee
voted me guilty of a major offense of student mis-
conduct and has decided to suspend me from the
University for the remainder of this academic
year. I truly respect the decision of our classmates
on this Committee.

When I give tours to prospective students, I ex-
plain that Washington and Lee is not a school for
everyone. I love it here. In the past I have learned
from my mistakes, I hope some of you can learn
from mine. It is an experience I would not wish on
any of you.

I’m proud to attend Washington and Lee, enjoy
being involved, and cherish all our friendships. I
wish the best to all of my classmates who will gra-
duate this spring. I look forward to seeing the rest
of you when I return to W&L next fall.

Marc Gordon

 

 

 

 
o

-

NEWS/OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1988

 

Bahamas
brunch
freezes
freshmen

 

By Stephanie Guittard
Staff Reporter

 

Last Sunday morning, students at-
tending brunch saw signs at Evans
Dining Hall directing them to the quad
at Graham-Lees. Waiting there was a
group of dorm counselors who had
been setting up for Bahamas in Febru-
ary.

“It’s like we got up at 5 o’clock this
morning to like set-up this Bahamas in
February motif,’’ said dorm coun-
selor Jim Cobb. He said they had been
setting up the volleyball and tables
without the freshmen knowing.

“It’s to get rid of those winter dol-
drums...to totally awesome irradicate
those bad vibes like coming through
the atmosphere, the cosmos, and we’-
re trying to like motivate and get rid of
these winter doldrums,’’ Cobb said.

Assistant Head Dorm Counselor
Jenny Bray thought of the idea, and
Dean of Freshman Ken Ruscio infor-
med the counselors a week prior to the
event.

“This is a great idea. The dorm
heads have been up since five this
morning doing all this, and so far
we ve been having probably more fun
than any of the freshmen,’’ said Cath-
erine Baillio.

Following the signs, the hungry and
thirsty freshmen students found tables
with fresh fruit, tropical mixers, hot
cocoa, Kudos and more.

The main complaint from
freshmen was it was too cold.

“‘T thought it was good, but it was
really cold out, so that took away from
it. The food was good, but I prefer the
stuff that they have at brunch. ..But, it
was neat, because it was different,”’
said freshman Lindsay Dehaven.

the

“‘T think is it had been on a warm
Saturday...people would’ve been
more into it,’’ said Dehaven. *‘I know
that the dorm counselors had been
working really hard.”’

 

 

 

 

 

Josh McDowell told W&L students ‘‘How to Have Maximum Sex’”’

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Josh packs Lee Chapel;
preaches ‘Maximum Sex’

 

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

Josh McDowell spoke Friday to a
full house in Lee Chapel about re-
lationships and sex.

‘We don’t have a sexual crisis to-
day, we have a relational crisis. A lot
of people are having sex today, but
very few are making love.”’

McDowell talked for an hour-and-a-
half on the topic of ‘Maximum Sex’’.
The speech was sponsored by the
Lamppost, the Fellowship of Chris-
tian Athletes, and the Inter-Varsity
Christian Fellowship.

According to McDowell in an inter-
view before the speech, joy and pas-
sion have gone out of sex.

‘*The key to sex is not the plumb-
ing, it’s the relational.

‘*T say many of the same things Dr.
Ruth does, but the main difference is I
put it in the context of relationship,
commitment and trust.

‘*There are three elements to sex.
There is the physical, the ‘soulish’ or
psychological, and the spiritual.

‘The physical is only about one-
twelfth of a total relationship.”

He spoke about the need for absti-
nence from sex before marriage from
a number of standpoints.

He cited the Bible as being against

Enrollment exceeds 1500;
class size to be cut by 25

 

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

 

In his Founders Day address, Presi-
dent Wilson announced the reduction
of the 1988-89 freshman class size
from 425 to 400 students.

Due to the high retention rate in the
past few years, the undergraduate po-
pulation as a whole must be controlled
to continue the’ small school tradition
that W&L is,recognized for, he said.

When the decision for coeducation
was made, the Board of Trustees set
the ideal undergraduate class at 1500.
They anticipated attaining their goal
by 1990 or 1991. However, the
growth occurred faster than expected,

 

Sbar

| \Continued from page 2

 

I made milkin cows that ya cudn’t.
Buford: Alright its a bet. Lets go to
the tool shed by the crick.

Scene 2: Buford loses his bet (use
your imagination) and writes to Ann
Landers 46 years later to describe the
whole event. (Luckily Ann Landers
had employees who could translate
Buford’s rural dialect).

Someday maybe a famous play-
wright like Tennessee Williams,
Shakespear ward Albee or myself

will convert the Date Rape Bet into a
famous Broadway play.
Now for my angry feminist letter

prediction: Mr. Sbar, since you think
date rape is such a laughing matter I
wondered if you were currently aware
that | out of every 10 women...in ad-
dition to psychological trauma...a
genuine hatred for the male spe-
cies...accurately portrays journalistic
immaturity on your part...as well as a
lack of compassion.

My reply: Dear Angry Feminist,
date rape is no laughing matter, but
when people start betting on it and
Ann Landers starts writing about it,
anyone with a sense of humor should
be laughing at it. Furthermore, con-
gratulations! You're the first person
who ever admitted to reading my
column.

Important note for male and female
students who live in Florida, Don't
make bets on a hot day in July; unskil
led journalists might try to write about
it.

 
   
  

Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

 

and the current number of undergra-
duates is 1543.

Contributing to the large number of
undergraduates is low attrition rate. In
the past, the average rate was 2.5 to 3
percent, but recently it has decreased
to 1.5 percent. According to Registrar
Scott Dittman, students are not leav-
ing the school in as large numbers as
they used to. During the 1983-84
school year, W&L lost 6.4 percent of
the student body. However, only 2.8
percent left last year.

Dittman sees the increase in fifth-
year seniors as a contributing factor as
well. This year the number of candi-
dates for graduation decreased from
341 to 317 after fall term. With 20
more expected to be ineligible after
winter term, there will be approxi-

mately 40 fifth-year seniors returning
in the fall.

Frank Parsons, executive assistant
to the president, looks at the need to
control the undergraduate population
positively. He feels that it is a sign of
good-decision-making, but efforts
must be made to maintain the ideal
number in order to continue the qua-
lity of a W&L education.

Class size is one of the advantages
of a small school. If the number of
students increases, not only will the
flexibility of assigning rooms be re-
duced, but so will the time each
professor has to spend with his stu-
dents, said Parsons. According to Par-
sons, if the corrections are made now,
major changes in the university will be
prevented.

EC suggests SAB cut

 

By Jonathan Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee discussed
problems with the Student Activities
Board at their meeting Monday.

The EC also met with the applicants
for the White Book Revisions Com-
mittee.

The EC had a budget report from
the SAB, and went on to discuss the
services the board provides for stu-
dents.

The board is having a problem
drawing students to weekend concerts
in the Pavilion.

EC President Brad Root said, ‘‘Due
to the change in the drinking age, the

SAB needs to evaluate their philoso-
phy about entertainment, starting next
year.”’

Some of the EC members also said
they had received complaints about
SAB _ members-at-large, of which
there are 80-95, going to the front of
the line at the Cockpit on Wednesday
nights and getting in free.

They urged a reduction of the num-
ber of members-at-large in order to
limit the problem. They also asked the
SAB to re-think their policy of letting
members into functions free all term.

The EC talked briefly to the appli-
cants for the White Book Revisions
Committee.

They outlined the role of the com-
mittee, which would be to gather in-

 

TALKBACK

pre-marital sex for people’s protec
tion, not to restrict their freedom.

He also spoke about pragmatic
reasons for abstinence.

“It’s [sex] becoming less casual.
It’s not for any moral reason what
soever. It’s for a pragmatic reason.
It’s for survival.

‘‘For the first time in history, you
have a sexually communicable disease
that’s 100 percent deadly.””

He cited statistics from a recent
FDA study conducted over a two year
period that showed a 17-30 percent
failure rate for condoms protecting
against AIDS.

**Your medical experts and others
will say the only safe sex is a mono-
gamous man with a monogamous
woman in a monogamous re-
lationship.”

He said that diseases such as AIDS
can stay dormant in the body for up to
15 years while they are being passed
on to others.

He also put the question of absti-
nence in terms of moral values and, as
he put it, character.

In referring to a talk Dr. Ruth gave
at the University of Cincinnati where
he quoted her as saying it was un-
reasonable to expect abstinence be-
cause the libido is too strong, he said,
‘‘we’re not talking about animal sex-
uality here, we're talking about hu-
man sexuality.

‘*We're talking about people who

have the capacity to make moral de
cisions and abide by them.”’

On the question of character, h
said that students 20 years ago didn’
have as much sexual involvement a
we do today.

**What they [Dr. Ruth and Planne:
Parenthood] are saying by saying th
libido is too strong is that students 2(
years ago had more character, mor
capacity to control their lives than stu
dents do today.’’

McDowell gives the same sort 0
talks in communist counties as he doe
here in the U.S.

**T just came back from Poland, go
ing to the Soviet Union, Hungary, al
over.

“*T was at the University of Krakow
And I'm going to the University o
Moscow.”

He also runs an organization o
about 55 people called Josh McDowel
Ministries.

**It all started out with just myself.
went to a communist indoctrinatior
center, where Che Guevera and Fide
Castro went, not because I was ;
Marxist, but because I wanted to lear
what they believed firsthand, because
I went to live in Latin America.

‘Out of that I started debating Mar
xists throughout Latin America, anc
that exploded into invitations all ove:
the world.”’

McDowell is currently on a tour o/
11 universities.

 

 

From Staff Reports

 

While the recent stock market
plunges have forced many financial
planners to reexamine their portfo-
lios, students at W&L are still en-
joying a healthy return from what
was once the largest gift ever to
American higher education.

In 1796 George Washington
gave Liberty Hall Academy a gift

 

at $50,000. At the time it was the
largest gift ever to American
higher education. The school
changed its name to Washington
Academy in recognition of the gift,
which has been part of the univer-

 

of James River Canal stock valued ,

Washington gives
each student $3.48

sity’s endowment ever since.

This year, income from the gift
is paying $3.48 toward the cost of
education for each of the 1,896
students at W&L.

Over the decades, Washington’s
birthday was observed at W&L by
the suspension of classes. More re
cently, the date usually falls within
a week-long midwinter break in the
undergraduate calendar, aptly
named the Washington Holiday.

Whether they happen to be en-

.doying, the Florida, beaches or the

ski, slopes during ,,their break,
W&L students can thank George
Washington for the free time and
the extra $3.48 they might be pay-
ing if it weren’t for Washington’s
endowment.

 

number of members

formation about the attitudes of the
current student generation, and to
suggest revisions to the White Book.

Members of the committee will be
selected and notified by the end of the
week.

In other EC news, the EC received
budget reports from the Ski Club, the
International Club, and a_ budget
request from the W&L chapter of
Amnesty International.

The Ski Club has only one race left,
and members attending will pay for
that out of their own pockets. The club
account is empty.

The Ski Club had about 25 members
this year. The representative reported
that dues will go up next year, and the
club will also sell T-shirts.

The International Club budget is

 

What are you doing for February Break?

 

Karen Hagerty, jun-
ior—‘*Taking Chris home to
Puerto Rico.”’

 

 

Chris Martin, senior
home with Karen to Puerto Rico.’

“Going

 

 

(RINT

right on track for the year, accordin;
to Jennifer Spreng.

The club held three parties this fall
and one house dinner. They also hel
an open house.

The W&L chapter of Amnest
International, represented by Kevi
McNamara, requested $200 dollar
from the EC for postage and copyin
costs.

Over 50 people have signed up fo
the organization, according t
McNamara.

The EC turned down the request
saying that a similar group in the lay
school is not funded, and that the:
were unsure about funding a con
troversial group with student ta
money.

 

 

 

 

Quinn Barton, senior
home to get some Florida sun
shine.”’

“Going

 

Ted Willard, senior
ing home to study.”

““T'm go-

Tom O’Brien, senior—‘‘Going
down to the Southeast visiting
alumni chapters with Southern

Comfort.”’

 

Eleanor
ior

Nelson, jun-
“Having interviews with a

newspaper for a summer job.”
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1988

 

General
Notes

Artistic awards

The American Collegiate Poets
Anthology is sponsoring a National
College Poetry Contest, Spring
Concours 1988. The contest is
open to all college and university
students desiring to have their poe-
try anthologized. Cash prizes will
go to the top five poems: $100,
first place; $50, second place; $25,
third place; $20 fourth place, $20
fifth place. Awards of publication
for ail accepted manuscripts in our
popular, handsomely bound and
copyrighted anthology, American
Collegiate Poets. Deadline March
31. For information write to:
International Publications, P.O.
Box 44044-L, Los Angeles, CA
90044.

Southern aid

Applications for the United
Daughters of the Confederacy
Scholarships are available in the
Financial Aid Office.

FD prep

There will be a mandatory meeting
for all members-at-large of the
Student Activities Board on Tues-
day, Feb. 23 at 7:00 p.m. in the
new pavilion. Fancy Dress prep-
arations will be discussed.

Brassy music

W&L’s instrumental ensembles
will present a concert Thursday,
Feb. 11, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The concert is open to the public.

Performing will be the flute sex-
tet, clarinet quartet, saxophone
quintet, brass octet and percussion
quintet. Each ensemble will per-
form two compositions and will
combine to play ‘‘The Overtune to
the Impressario’’ by Mozart and
**Send in the Clowns’’ by Stephen
Sondheim.

Robert Stewart, professor of
music and chairman of music div-
ision at W&L, will direct the en-
sembles.

Comic music

Gaetano Donizetti's comic
opera, L’Elisir d’Amore, will be
broadcast live from the Met Satur-
day, Feb. 20 at 2 p.m. over
W&L’s radio station WLUR-FM
(91.5).

Kathleen Battle will be heard as
Adina, and in their Met broadcast
debuts, Vinson Cole as Nemorino
and Alberto Rinaldi as Sergeant
Belcore. Giuseppe Taddei will be
heard as Doctor Dulcamara. Also
making his Met broadcast debut
will be conductor Ralf Weikert.

Library hours

The hours for the University Li-
brary during Washington Holiday
are as follows:

Friday, Feb. 12—Close at 6:00
p.m.; Saturday, Feb. 13—9 a.m.-
4 p.m.; Sunday, Feb. 14—Closed;
Mon.-Fri., Feb. 15-19—8:30
a.m.-4:30 p.m.; Saturday, Feb.
20—9 a.m.-4 p.m.; Sunday, Feb.
21—Open at 12 noon and resume
24 hour schedule.

Flying cranes

The Cranes Are Flying, Letyat
Zhuravli (USSR, 1957, US
release-1960, dir. Mikhail Kalato-
zov, from the stage- play by Victor
Rozov, 94 min., in Russian with
English subtitles) runs on Friday,
2/26, 7:30 p.m., Northen Aud.,
sponsor: German Dept. 1958 Can-
nes Film Festival Prize for Best
Director (Dalatozov) and Best Ac-
tress (Tat’iana Samoilova, the real-
life great niece of Stanislavsky).
Samoilova’s screen presence and
Sergei Urusevsky’s bold cinema-
tography evoke a profound pathos
that make this an anti-war film of
epic proportions.

 

“ =

 

Fine Cuisine
IN AN ATMOSPHERE SUPREME

“Over 50 years of quality food"
STEAKS « SEAFOOD ¢ CHICKEN
GREEK & ITALIAN SPECIALTIES

* CANK) OUTSERVICE

463-361

OPEN 6 DAYS 8:00 A.M. °C %:30 PM.
Closed en Monduy

2
SOWMTHCRIN
ae

LEXINGTON, VA.

MA JOR CREDIT
CaapsaccerteD ©6637 3. MAIN

 

 

 

Peer Counselors help the LHS Peer Helpers

 

By Heidi Read
Staff Reporter

 

Some of W&L’s Peer Counselors
met with Lexington High School's
Peer Helpers Wednesday afternoon to
discuss how LHS might improve their
program.

The two-year-old LHS program is
under the direction of two LHS gui-
dance counselors, Carol Phemister
and Deborah Pruett. Phemister
said the goal of the LHS Peer Helpers
is to reach out toward kids at LHS.
The seven-member group was inter-
ested in W&L’'s program to see how
they might improve their own. More
exactly, the LHS Peer Helpers were
interested in how W&L trained their
peer counselors.

The W&L peer counselor program
was started two years ago by Bryan
Bishop, a third-year law student, jun-
ior Meredith Walker, and University

McDowell,

 

From Staff Reports

 

Two members of the W&L journal-
ism family will be inducted into the
Virginia Communications Hall of
Fame this year.

Charles McDowell, a 1948 graduate
of W&L and the Washington- based
columnist for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, and Oscar W. ‘‘Tom’’
Riegel, professor emeritus of journal-
ism at W&L, will be inducted during
ceremonies March 31 at the Jefferson
Sheraton Hotel in Richmond.

Psychologist James W. Worth.

The 25-member peer counselor
program wanted to provide the oppor-
tunity for students to talk with other
students about problems, or ask ques-
tions that they would feel uncomforta-
ble talking about with a trained psy-
chologist or counselor. In this way,
the student would be more at ease.

Walker said that the peer counselors
try to meet every two weeks to discuss
various topics such as date rape, prob-
lem solving, alcohol awareness and
AIDS. Walker said Worth teach many
of the information-oriented Peer
Counselor sessions, but other indivi-
duals have spoken to the group as
well.

Another junior, David Bloods-
worth, said an important part of the
peer counselor training was an exer-
cise designed to improve listening
skills.

Bloodsworth said that in the listen-
ing skills session, each of the peer
counselors shared a problem, and the
other peer counselors responded to
that problem. Besides working on
their listening skills, peer counselors

concentrated on picking up emotions.
Bloodsworth said it helped to develop
trusting relationships among peer
counselors.

“If people can’t trust you,”
Bloodsworth said, ‘‘they won't tell
you about their problem, and then you
are not being effective as a peer coun-
selor.”*

As a peer counselor, one must
‘bring a person out to talk about their
problem,"’ said John Legters, a W&L
junior. However, Legters said, the in-
dividual must take the first step.

Bloodsworth agreed, saying, ‘‘Peo-
ple won't come to you and say ‘I have
a problem and I need to talk to you as
a peer counselor’. They come to you
in a casual, protective way. Some-
times you yourself may not even real-
ize at first that they’re signaling you
for help or advice.”’

‘*We’re not trying to be profession-
als,’’ said Walker, ‘‘but we are there
if people need someone to talk to.”’

In the meeting, the W&L Peer
Counselors answered questions from
the LHS group and made suggestions.
Both groups had similar problems in

starting out, such as getting people to
utilize their group.

Once some did, they had to learn
how to bring people around to talking
about their problems, but not become
involved themselves in the person's
problem. :

Several of the LHS Peer Helpers
were frustrated that people weren't
utilizing their group and asked how
they could **bring people around.”’

Phemister said the Peer Helpers had
a Breakfast Club where students could
come and meet them and talk if they
chose. LHS also had a peer helper
column in their school newspaper that
provided more anonymity for those
students who were afraid to confront a
peer helper.

Phemister said the group had tried
various things to bring about more in-
dividual student contact, but had not
had much response.

Legters said that the LHS title,
‘*Peer Helper’’, sounds intimidating
to people and suggests they have a
weakness, thus delaying them from
seeking help. Legters suggested the
LHS group might want to find another

Riegel inducted to Hall of Fame

McDowell and Riegel join W&L
alumni Tom Wolfe, class of 1951, and
Roger Mudd, class of 1950, as mem-
bers of the Hall of Fame. Other Vir-
ginia journalists to be inducted with
McDowell and Riegel include Frank
Batten, chairman of the board of
Landmark Communications; John
Harkrader, former president of WDBJ
Television Inc. in Roanoke; and Car-
ter O. Lowance, former assistant to
six governors.

McDowell has been with the Times-
Dispatch for 38 years, including 22

years as its Washington correspon-
dent. Since 1977 he has been a regular
panelist on ** Washington Week in Re-
view’’ on the Public Broadcasting
System.

His column is distributed to 280
newspapers by the Scripps Howard
News Service. Hé is the author of
three books and has been vice presi-
dent of the Gridiron Club, an organi-
zation of Washington reporters and
news executives.

Riegel joined the W&L journalism
department in 1930 after teaching
English at Dartmouth College and

working as a reporter and editorial
writer. He became director of the
journalism department in 1934 and
continued as full-time professor until
1973. The W&L telecommunications
laboratory is named for him.

In 1934, Riegel wrdte the book,
Mobilizing for Chaos: The Story of the
New Propaganda. He worked for
U.S. intelligence _ services during
World War II, and from 1951 to 1966
was curator of the Alfred I. duPont
Awards Foundation for Radio, Telev-
ision, and Allied Sciences.

Pi Phi sponsors charity basketball contest

 

From Staff Reports

 

fhe brothers of the Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity are sponsoring a
three-on-three basketball tournament
to benefit PUSH (Play Units for the
Severely Handicapped), the fraterni-
ty’s national charity.

The tournament will be Sunday,
Feb. 28 at 1 p.m. in Warner Center.
The cost is $15 per team. All proceeds
will go to PUSH.

‘This is an excellent way for us to
have a good time and raise money for
a worthwhile project,’’ said E.G. Al-
len, president of Pi Kappa Phi. ‘‘The
tournament is open to all members of

since 1963

directly behind Leggett’s

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Pauli Mitchell

 

Lexington’s
Market

Miller-12 Pk. 12-Oz. Cans

ee een on

Fresh

Ground Beef ........cccccccccceeceeeeee) 1-09»,

Mueller Elbow

i ee

Lenders-14-Oz.

TE i a bis bisstisstinvanieieisincnes

16-Oz. Non-returnables

ee a... s, .shicuactncpussnicccss aaa

Colby

i a, ee 99».

Shop Our Low Prices

 

     
   
   
      
   
   
   

 

 

Needlework Specialty Shop

11 East Washington Street

Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-1006

 

Learn To Knit

Sign up now for knitting classes
to be offered
during Spring Term.

Instruction in Cross-Stitch
and Needlepoint also available.

Call 463-1006

Clearance Sale on Selected
Winter Yarns Going On Now

   
     
    

 

 

the Washington and Lee community.
We are really hoping for a large turn-
out.”

The tournament will be single elim-
ination. The first team to score 21
points is the winner. The format will
be no make-it- take-it, call your own
fouls. The tournament will begin and
finish on the 28th, so each team must
be present at | p.m. and winners must

 

stay until they are eliminated.

The first prize is three pairs of
Fancy Dress tickets. The second prize
is three Wilson indoor/outdoor bas-
ketballs. The third prize is three FD
T-shirts and three. Mock Convention
T- shirts.

Sign-up for the tournament will be
Feb. 23, 24, and 25 in front of the Co-
op.

Hoops for PUSH*

3 on 3 basketball tournament

to benefit PUSH*
Sponsored by Pi Kappa Phi

Ist prize - 3 prs. FD tickets

2nd prize - 3 Wilson B-balls

3rd prize - 3 FD T-shirts
3 Mock Con. T-shirts

Sunday, Feb. 28, 1 p.m.
Warner Center

Entry fee: $15 per team
Sign-up Feb. 23, 24 & 25
Outside the COOP.

*Play Units for Severely Handicapped

name that did not imply this.

The W&L Peer Counselors said
they did not have much response when
they first started. The group did a pre-
sentation during orientation week t@
familiarize the freshmen with the pro-
gram. Bloodsworth said, *‘It’s a tou-
chy area and it takes time to develope
However, as there is more awareness
of our program, more people will take
advantage of it.”” t

Since the age and development rates
are so different between W&L and
LHS, all the W&L Peer Counselors
agreed that each program needs to be
adapted to each specific school
system—the high school atmosphere
needs a different approach than a col:
lege atmosphere.

“‘Even if no one talks to you as &
peer helper, you will benefit from the
training,’ said Phemister.

Walker said, ‘‘It’s 2 rewarding t¢
know that you can help; you're glad
you can be there.”’

The W&L Peer Counselor Hotline
number is 463-8999 and is open from
7-11 p.m. Monday through Thursday
and 8-12 p.m. Friday and Saturday. +

 

Larue pens °
politics book:

’

 

From Staff Reports

 

‘

Political Discourse: A Case ,
Study of the Watergate Affair, a
book by W&L law professor Lewis
H. LaRue, will be published in
March by the University of Geor-
gia Press.

In his study of the Watergate af-
fair, Larue contends that members
of Congress centered their discus-
sions during the hearings largely
on the president’s ‘‘violation of the
law’’ and his threat to ‘‘the rule of
law’’ instead of the more critical
issues of government ethics, public
trust, and democracy itself that
Watergate raised.

Larue thinks that members of
Congress failed in their role as rep-
resentatives and misstated the
deepest concerns of the consti-
tuents. .

Larue joined the W&L law facul-
ty in 1967 after two years with the
U.S. Department of Justice.

=

 

 

 

  
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1988

 

Hoops beats Emory

 

By Mike Shady

_ Sports Editor

 

It was senior’s night at the Warner
Center on Saturday, and it couldn't
have come at a more opportune time
for the W&L basketball team.

After an extremely frustrating 89-80
Old Dominion Athletic Conference

" loss to Emory and Henry on Thursday

night, the Generals seemed to be on
the edge, ready to topple over. The

" defeat was W&L’s second in a row
, and, to make matters worse, starting

»

*

point guard Emmanuel Klump quit the
team for reasons head coach Verne
Canfield cited as a ‘‘family matter.**
The Generals needed a big lift emo-
tionally, so they turned to their four
seniors.

Playing their final regular season
game at the Warner Center, the
seniors—guard Steve Hancock, for-
ward Gary Schott and centers Lou
Trosch and Harmon Har-
den—responded by leading W&L to a
92-80 win over Emory University.

Women

blow out

Hollins

By Amy Packard

 

" Staff Reporter

 

The W&L women’s swim team won
against Hollins 91-61 last Saturday at

» Cy Twombly Pool. Spectators would

'+ Head

have considered the meet to be an im-
pressive showing for the Generals.
coach Page Remillard,
however, was a little disappointed
with the women’s effort.

‘We were certainly under control,

, but I felt that a few swimmers didn’t

push as hard as they could have,”’ he
said. ‘I’m discouraged because I feel
as if the team missed an opportunity to
test itself.””

W&L won the 400-yard medley re-
lay and then five swimmers went on
individually to capture six winning
times. The outstanding performances
were: juniors Nancy Whalen and Eli-
zabeth Miles in the 100-yard and
200-yard  freestlyes respectively;
sophomore Debbie Grove’'in’ the
200-yard individual medley; freshman
Kristin Wagnef in the 1000-yard
freestyle; and freshman Sharon Cole-
man in both the 50-yard freestyle and

“I think the thing that was good
about the game was that we got some
“senior leadership,’’’ said Canfield.
“IT said to Steve{ Hancock] before the
ballgame, ‘I need something extra,
something special from you.’"’

Extra special indeed. All Hancock
did was go out and score a career-high
33 points on 11 for 17 shooting (4 of 5
from three-point distance) and dish
out seven assists. Harden, not to be
outdone, netted his career high with
27 points and grabbed 10 rebounds.
Trosch scored only eight points, but,
more importantly, snagged eight
boards. Schott, although he did not
score, had three assists and did all the
little things that help teams win.

The Generals were up by as much as
12 points with less than ten minutes to
go in the second half, but Emory
clawed back behind the 33 points of
Tim Garrett. W&L kept its composure
and then iced the game from the
free-throw line down the stretch.

The free-throw line played a large
part in the Emory and Henry game on

Thursday. W&L led the Wasps by
nine until the officials, who had let a
lot of physical play go on in the first
half, decided to test out their whistles.
In 33 seconds, E&H would go to the
line 10 times and the General's lead
had vanished. For the entire game, the
Wasps shot 40 free throws—making
32 of them—to W&L’s 16.

In his final game for W&L, Klump
added 22 points but also drew a tech-
nical foul, It was the second time in as
many games that the junior guard has
irritated the officials enough to be
nailed with a ‘*‘T.”’ After the game,
Klump and Canfield had a conference
during which Klump decided to quit
the team. Freshman guard Mike Hol-
ton started in place of Klump in the
Emory game.

The General's overall record now
stands at 16-5, 7-4 in the ODAC.
W&L plays at Mary Washington to-
night before taking on three tough
conference foes—Roanoke, Eastern
Mennonite and Maryville—all of
which will be played on the road.

 

ALK
Pod

a ~e

i

 

  

Hes

 

Sports Photo

 

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

Slow times were the main cause be-
hind the W&L men’s swim team’s
118-98 loss to William and Mary last
Saturday at Cy Twombly Pool.

Head coach Page Remillard was not
pleased: ‘‘Even when we won an
event, we didn’t swim as fast as we
could have.”’

The Generals were also hurt by the
performance of their divers. W&L’s
diving program has been in dire need
of people all season, and, against
W&M, that Achilles’ heel was ex-

Sophomore David Olson wins the 200-yard backstroke in Satur- posed badly. The Tribe outscored the

day’s meet.

Remillard did not ignore the team’s
victory. ‘‘It’s a coach’s job to recog-
nize success, but also to make the ath-
letes keep striving. This meet was not
a problem and the lack of effort was
atypical. It’s nice to compete without
a great amount of pressure, but what
about when we face Sweet Briar in the
[Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence|championship?’”~

A more immediate challenge is the
meet against Mary Washington this

close race.

‘‘Mary Washington is considered
the co-favorite choice to win the
championship. We have to have a per-
fect meet to outswim them.”’

In order to win against Mary Wash-
ington, the Generals have to be
thoroughly prepared.‘ ~~

‘‘In tough meets, if the opposing
team makes a mistake, we want to be
in a position to capitalize on it,’’ said

Generals 27-6 in the one- and three-
meter springboard events.

But W&L, according to Remillard,
was still in a position to win the meet,
despite its diving. The Generals won
the 400-yard medley relay in 3:40.94
and, after wins by sophomores Adam
Morgan in the 1000-yard freestyle
(10:10.58) and David Olson in the
200- yard individual medley, W&L
had opened up a 47-36 advantage.

The score was tied at 50-all after
W&M swept the top three spots in the

 

the 200-yard butterfly. Saturday. Remillard is anticipating a Remillard. one-meter diving competition. The
porn race SERA AH

FOR SALE: 1982 SAAB Campus Travel Representative

Turbo, silver, two-door,

5-speed, AC, sunroof, alarm
system, stereo, excellent condi-

tion, $5,000. Call 463-2557
after 5 p.m.

 

 

needed to promote spring break
trips to Florida, Earn money,
free trips, outstanding marketing
experience. Call Inter-Campus
Programs at 1-800-433-7747.

 

 

 

ADULT EDUCATION:

 

ST. PATRICK'S

LENT — EASTER
PROGRAM

DAILY MASSES:
Tuesday Wednesday
12:15 PM 5:15 PM

(Sacramental Theology)
Tuesday evenings - Feb. 23, Mar. 1, 8, & 15 - 7:30 PM - Church

- Eucharist (The Mass)
- Sacrament of Reconciliation (Confession)

  

Thursday Friday
12:15 PM 5:15 PM

Hall

 

 

 

   

  
   
    
    

  

 

 

Ps
]
A

FABULOUS
VALENTINES

) BORN /&/J BRED, ‘INC.

 

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET |,

Md gay iy aA 14 Me al AA aa nh Aa wld

  

)
ty
i

”

wt

Ey

f
{

    

be

 

PLAY

Washington and Lee

 

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior guard Steve Hancock drives to the basket against Emory
and Henry. Hancock scored 60 points in W&L’s last two games.

4 Diving, slow times

result in loss to W&M

Tribe kept its momentum in the next
event—the 200-yard butterfly—by
placing first and second and grabbed
the lead, 62-55, for the first time all
afternoon.

The deficit was cut to 78-73 after
Olson garnered his second win of the
meet in the 200-yard backstroke. The
comeback was shortlived as W&M
outscored the Generals in the
500-yard freestyle 10-7 and the three-
meter diving 13-3.

At that point, the scoreboard read
101 for W&M and only 83 for W&L.
Sophomore Shawn Copeland stopped
the bleeding by winning the 200-yard
breaststroke in 2:18.21 and was hel-
ped by senior Simon Perez, who came
in second with a time of 2:21.49.

Unfortunately, it was too little too
late as the Generals trailed by 13
points, 107-94, going into the final
event of the meet—the 400-yard frees-
tyle relay. The Tribe wouldn’t even
allow W&L the opportunity to make
the final score closer, taking first,
third and fifth in the relay and ending
-a-day of frustration for the Generals.

W&L will travel with the women’s
team this weekend to Fredericksburg
where the Generals will swim against
Mary Washington College.

aN

 

 

 

WorK. SHARE. LIVE. SAVE LIVES.

You can have a summer full of adventure & personal growth
while improving health for the people of Latin America.

CTOLUNEE SS!

To be an Amigos volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas,
5618 Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057,

(800-392-4580 in Texas).

Or call: 713-782-5290 or 800-231-7796 Ani
a &

   

 

“Fancy Dress’’

t Snack Bar

Special for February & March
Barbeque Sandwich

$1.05

or I pt.
Have A Good Break!

Grapplers
win one,

lose two

By Jim Linza
Staff Reporter

 

 

The W&L wrestling team lost last
night 36-8 to Longwood College.

The Generals were only able to win
two matches as Longwood routed
W&L in the dual match.

The wrestling team split its two
matches at the Washington and Jeffer-
son Triangular Saturday, bringing its
record to 3-8.

The Generals blew out Gallaudet
45-10, thanks greatly to five forfeit
wins that gave them 30 points without
having to contest a match. Head coach
Gary Franke explained that Gallaudet
was banged up at this point of the
season and lacked the wrestlers to fill
in.

W&L received pins from freshman
Vince Allen at 150 pounds, and junior
Manoli Loupassi at 190 pounds.
Senior Steve Castle won by decision at
126 pounds.

Against host Washington and Jef-
ferson, the Generals moved out to a
9-0 lead after freshman Larry Pilkey
won by decision at 118 pounds and
Castle continued his winning ways
with a third period pin.

However, the Presidents would
dominate the rest of the match, shut-
ting out the Generals in the final eight
weight classes to win 38-9.

‘I was disappointed with the way
we wrestled from 134 [pounds]to hea-
vyweight,”’ said Franke, adding that it
was just one of those days.

The Generals suffered more than
just the loss to W&J. Junior Mark
Robertson injured his knee and will be
out for the year. Robertson (6-3-1 for
the season) had just recently re-
covered from an injury to his other
knee and had been wrestling well
since he rejoined the Generals’ lineup.

W&L will send five wrestlers to the
Eastern Regionals, which will be held
Feb. 19-20 at New York University.

  
 

W&L

 
     
 
   
     
  

PVLIVLPVAP VP OLIV.

Rent your F.D. Tuxedo
from the Tux Corner
at University Cleaners

$35.00 - Shoes not included

Order before Tuesday, March 1, 1988

areata gmiaivabsdnaiiaibuidediiiia a
 

=BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1988

 

We can't live in the Glory Days Forever

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

We at Washington and Lee have a
problem that must be addressed and
with Fancy Dress just around the
proverbial corner it seems as though
now is a good time to address it.

Unless you have been living in a
vacuum for the last five months, you
know that the attendance for ‘*Wed-
nesday Night Bands in the Pit’’ has
been way down compared with that of
years past. While there are a hundred
explanations as to why, you can bet
the ranch and the dog (as Mike Shady
would say) that people are not going to
the Wednesday night performances
because the Pit can’t sell alcohol to
anyone under 21. Well, wake the chil-
dren and call the neighbors, isn’t that
a huge surprise.

Unfortunately for us there is some-
thing called the Law of Virginia that
says we cannot buy any alcoholic
beverage unless we are 21 years old.
If I am the first person to tell you that,
| apologize for ruining your day. In all
seriousness, it is the law and it is
something that we are going to have to
live with until it is ever changed

Your very own Guide

 

By Tina Vandersteel
Cruise Director

 

Standing amidst a crowd of people
advancing steadily their state of hap-
piness at any recent party, I’ve noticed
that as vacation draws near and buz-
zed conversation turns to plans for
break many people have been reply-
ing, ““Cancun.”’ At the risk of trying
to pass myself off as an authority on a
subject, | offer here my guide: How to
Survive in Cancun.

This comes from one solid week of
field research done over Christmas
break and includes data compiled
from painstaking research methods, as
you all can well imagine. The follow-
ing are some DO’s and DON’Ts that
may prove helpful for those with Can-
cun in their plans. For those who
don’t, [ invite you at this time to move
onto the next article.

The Exchange Rate

DO find out what the official rate is

(which will probably be never).

Whether becoming or not, Drinking
and the ability to throw outrageous
parties has been part of the Washing-
ton and Lee legend since before there
was dirt. However, the days of daily
drunken revelry are over. That's
right, I said those days are over. We
are no longer the number one party
school in the nation a la Playboy
magazine, nor do we consume more
alcohol per person than any campus in
the country. Again I’m sorry to those
of you that are receiving this news for
the first time. I know that there are
some of you who are going to go out
and single handedly try to prove me
wrong tonight. Bravo, My congratula-
tions to you. The fact remains,
however, that we have to deal with not
being able to drink at our school-spon-
sored social events.

Fact: the Pit can no longer sell alco-
hol to anyone under 21.

General Headquarters manager Bill
Torrence said that there is no question
that the raising of the drinking age is
the reason why people are no longer
going to the Pit on Wednesday nights
to hear the bands. Every week, the Pit
gauges the success of Wednesday

in the Wall Street Journal before you
go.

DON’T exchange money at your
hotel; they charge you a fee there.
Exchange money at the airport or at
the banks.

Transportation

DON’T rent a car for the tellowing
reasons:

1. Taxis are cheaper.

2. The Policia extract high—shall
we say—‘‘fees’’ for driving offenses
if you don’t wish to be arrested, and
they’re always on the lookout with
their machine guns.

3. Gas is only available in one loca-
tion in all of Cancun and is very ex-
pensive.

DO negotiate your taxi fee before
you go anywhere. First, tell them
where you want to go, ask how much,
and start by offering them half of what
they quote. If they don’t like it, walk
away; there are many taxis in Cancun.

DON’T pay more than $3 to go

night on the amount of beer sold that
night. For the Pit to break even on
Wednesday night they must make
$310 in sales. As of last week, the
average take on Wednesday nights
was $330. Any C-school major that
wants to stay in business will tell you
that a $20 net isn’t going to get you
very far. Granted, some nights are
better or worse than others, but the
fact remains that extinction of Wed-
nesday night concerts in the Pit is im-
minent. This year’s projection of
Wednesday night beer sales is $8,800.
During the 1983-84 year, the beer
sales were $55,000. Pretty simple
math, you figure it out.

Fact: all concerts at the Pavilion this
year have been dry and in all prob-
ability will stay that way.

Just as the Pit is forced to live or die
by the ‘21 Age”’ drinking laws, so is
the Student Activities Board. Concerts
at the Pavilion this year have been dry
because for legal and risk manage-
ment purposes it is not possible to
have a communal source of alcohol,
that is, one of which anyone and their
brother can partake. I can’t count the
number of people that I have heard say
since before the Homecoming concert

anywhere (even Cancun City) unless
it’s the airport, and then $7 is ou-
trageous.

Shopping

DON’T buy anything silver unless
it’s stamped with the government
symbol and the number .925. In the
stores pay no more than $1 per gram
for silver, although the back alley
markets will give you a better price.

DON’T pay attention to the sob
stories of the merchants in the mar-
ketplace. Their only legitimate pitch
is: ‘‘Hey—hey—FRIEND by the way,
every merchant is your ‘friend’
there—come here and give me a
chance to rip you off.’’ (They really
say that).

Tourism

DON’T do any of the tours of the
ruins, like Tuluum, unless your really
into ruins.

DO go to Isla Mujeres and/or Co-
zumel if you really like scuba.

Now that you've saved all the

‘*There’s no Beer? Well then I’m not
going.’ I think it’s a pretty sad state
of affairs when people are not going to
concerts and social functions because
they can’t get drunk. Are we that al-
coholic that we can’t have a good time
unless we are drinking? Maybe so.

At this point I also want to address
the situation surrounding the bands we
have been having. While we are an ex-
tremely prestigious University, we are
not, as I’m sure you are all aware, a
large one. We have, by choice, a
small student body but consequently a
proportionate amount of money be-
cause of it. The SAB had at the begin-
ning of the year $40,000 to spend on
our social activities for the year. The
object is for them to spend our money
throughout the year without coming to
the end with nothing left. The problem
is that the SAB is working on a
double-edged sword. If they spend
$10,000 on a band, and the ticket sales
equal $8,000 then they still have
$32,000 to spend on us. Comprende?
However, if they spend $17,000 on a
band and ticket sales are $4,000 be-
cause nobody goes to the concert (no
Homecoming concerts mentioned)
most likely because they can’t drink,

then they only have $27,000 left to
spend. Got it?

The bottom line is that Lexington is
not a major draw for the Grateful
Dead, U2, or the Screaming Blue Vir-
gins from the Poisoned Church of
Slippery Rock. The SAB works as
hard as they can to get the best bands
possible but we don’t have the funds
necessary to fly in a band from Los
Angeles or New York for just one
night. If they are not somewhere in the
area, i.e. on the East Coast or nearby,
then it takes major capital to get them
to play. You as the student body can
help the situation though. As I said, if
attendance at the concerts is good and
the SAB can deposit money back into
the fund, then we can get better bands.
If the spring concert arrives and the
SAB still has $25,000 sitting in a sav-
ings account drawing interest you can
bet that we will have one hell of a con-
cert.

This article was not designed to be a
gripe session. As the entertainment
representative for the paper, I wanted
you to know what kind of boat you are
floating in. Instead of complaining
about the horrible bands that you re-
fuse to go see, and the fact that you

can’t drink at the concerts (something :

I would again like to add is something

the SAB has no control over) why not *

just suck it up and go anyway. You
will probably have a good time in spite
of yourself. Not to mention that you
are putting money back into your ac
count so that when the spring rolls
around and you want Jimmy Buffet to
come play, we have the money to
make him a serious offer.

I hope this article hasn't offended ‘

anyone, but if it has, rough stuff. This
is a subject that has been kicked

around long enough and one that *

needs to be addressed. Being totally
serious, if you as the student body do

not want Wednesday night bands in ‘

the Pit, then tell the SAB about it.
Write them a letter. It's foolish to
waste money that could be spent on
larger concerts if you don’t want
Wednesday night bands. If you have
suggestions about alternative forms of
entertainment or events that would
please a greater portion of the student
body, then tell them. They work hard,
but their not omniscient. Tell them
how you feel. It’s the only way they

are ever going to know what you ‘

want.

for Cancun Survival -

money by knowing these things in ad-
vance, here are some: things to spend
that money on:

Drinking

DO drink before you go to any bar.
Catch a buzz in advance— at $3.00/ 6
of Corona and $2.75/ 6 of Dos Equis,
it is worth it!

DO conceal your drinks on the
beach if they were not purchased at
your hotel. If the hotel doesn’t bother
you about it, the policia will. Sugges-
tion: bury the bottles in the sand with
some ice.

DON’T use the mini bars if they’re
provided in your hotel rooms, as
tempting as it may be. They’ll kill you
with the bill afterwards.

Eating

DON’T La Maison—The Ultimate
Tourist Trap.

DO Le Gourmet (in Cancun
City)—for really fine (believe it or
not) French-Mex cuisine.

DO Los Alamandros (in Cancun

Spurgeon shines in W&L Drama

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

The new adaption of Luigi Pirandel-
lo’s play Six Characters in Search of
an Author written by Washington and
Lee drama professor Tom Ziegler
opened to a full house Friday night at
Henry Street’s Troubadour Theater.

According to the adaption notes in
the program, ‘‘Six Characters in
Search of an Author has the reputation
of being the first ‘experimental’
play.’ If indeed Friday night was an
experiment, then the result was suc-
cess.

The drama opens with five actors
dragging in late to a rehersal of Che-
kov’s Three Sisters against the bark of
an insistent and edgy state manager.
Part of the experimental nature of the
drama is that the audience is supposed
to feel as though they have stumbled
in on a rehersal in progress which is
exactly what it felt like.

The characters stretch, and yawn,
and mill around until the director

comes storming in wanting to know
why practice hasn’t started. For the
next thirty minutes or so the charac-
ters treat the audience to a light, comi-
cal look at the difficulties of rehersing
a play. Then, it happens.

Midway through the first act, the
lights drop down to almost nothing
and in what appears to be a mirrored
back wall of the studio appear six sul-
len figures in black that look like a
cross between the Addams Family and
the Dollanganger Family from V.C.
Andrews Flowers in the Attic series.

Following the screams of the au-
dience, the lights go out for a few sec-
onds and when they come back up, the
six figures are standing in the middle
of the stage. The father of the family
informs everyone that they are six
characters who were developed but
never published. Thus, they travel
around searching for a place to act out
their drama.

Yes, the premise is strange but in an
abstract sort of way has quite a lot to
say. The ‘‘six characters’” make intri-

guing statements about the nature of

acting and actors such as ‘‘No matter

Merle Norman/Wolff Tanning

M-F 10-7 p.m.;
STUDENT RATES

Rt. 11 North

at. 10-5 p.m.
. , 463-1782

Solar Nails/Manicures
5 visits $25.00
10 visits $39.00
25 visits $79.00
$6 per visit
1st visit free
‘Free Visit to Tanning Bed With This Ad”

tial

C., 29710, 803-831-2121.

 

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who
are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them in
their physical, mental and spiritual development. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities and be
dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her poten-
College students, teachers and coaches should apply.
THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is
an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sail-
ing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing
ind tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further infor-
mation write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird, Clover,

CAMP

 

how hard you try to act, you can never
be us’’ and ‘*What is illusion to the
actor is reality for the character.”’

As usual, Washington and Lee
drama veterans Susan Crouse and
Craig Smith gave fine performances
as the stepdaughter and Clay while
newcomers Genienne Mongno, Stacy
Morrison, and Tom Rawls delighted
the audience with their eccentric
roles. The entire production was well
done, but the excellence of two speci-
fic things stood apart from the rest.

The show’s playbill says that
freshman Tom Spurgeon made _ his
stage debut in Six Characters because
he lost a bet and had to try out for a
part in the production. If that’s truly
the case,
won the bet.

Spurgeon’s haunting performance
as the father was absolutely superb.
While his presence on stage was
commanding, it was nothing com-
pared to his booming voice that took
control and held everyone in the
theater suspended. Morrison agreed
saying that ‘‘if a line was skipped or
something was missed, Tom would

he needs to thank whoever™

cover for whoever needed it.’’ Spur-
geon may have been on the stage last
week as the result of a lost bet, but if
Six Characters is his last production,
he is making a serious mistake.

The other outstanding feature of Six
Characters is something that usually
goes unnoticed and unpraised.
However. in this show, there is no
question that the lighting and special
effects were what made everything
flow as smoothly as it did.

Sophomore Mary Hipp and the
members of the lighting crew did a
phenomenal job in putting together a
light show that created a realistic aura
around a not-so-realistic story line.
The two way mirrored wall, the flash-
ing signal lights, and the creation of a
garden through the use of lighting at
the end of the drama were plain and
simply done as effectively as they
could have been done.

Six Characters in Search of an Au-
thor was one of the oddest dramas to
be performed at W&L lately, but in-
deed, it was one of the best. If you
missed it, you missed out on a real
treat.

 

 

Wendell's
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

City) for Excellent,
non-tourist Mexican.

DO Carlos and Charlie’s—for
something like the outdoor Mexican
equivalent to Spanky’s.

DO Otto’s Pizza—for pizza on a tor-
tilla.

Definitely DO:

Carlos and Charlie’s—bring an ori-
ginal tee shirt and they’ll put it on the
wall and give you one of their’s.

Hard Rock Cafe—and have —a

very authentic,

YARD of beer (or two).

Christine’s—if you like air condi-
tioned pseudo NY clubs. Aquarius
(like Christine’s) La Boom—indoors
or out,

WHATEVER YOU DO RE-
MEMBER THAT THERE IS A $10
DEPARTURE TAX AT THE AIR-
PORT. IF YOU DO NOT HAVE
THE CASH FOR THIS, YOU
WILL BE DENIED EXIT FROM
THE COUNTRY.

 

TYPISTS: Hundreds weekly|

at home!
Write:
P.O. Box 17
Clark, New Jersey 07066

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

CEKES EEE KEKE KEELES:

¥
yw
¥
y
“
y
v
¥y
z

a

30% Off

Winsor & Newton
London Oil Colors
Stock Only

J&B Office Supply

23 W. Washington St.
463-3432

€ESESEKCE EC EC ECE EE

@ €€€€€S EEC EK

 

 

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

KELLY’S CORNER

463-5452

Open7 days

Bese o@ ents

ME b pons

DLA NO AM 3145695

$s £8 of . 14 tet {
oe ’ ee ce Ss v

  
    

PHONE 703-463-2022

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDWARE STORES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

Tuborg-6 Pk. N.R.’S......ccceeeeeeees
Gt DOGB......ccsssccccsstrserervenesedsces
Pes OA MK, ic see canon

Hunting Licenses, Groceries, Camo Clothes, Game Room

  

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.
Pledge Paddles

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main St., Lexington, 463-3355

aa OU de

a,
1 17 S. MAIN STREET

CANO fetes a Love preteinls Remain af tins brug bu Oy POLAR Ute! ie pament be where

Valentine Gift Ideas
Russel Stover Candies
: Large Selection of Perfumes

Hamric & disiitacs afi

Gifts for all occasions

CRUISE SHIPS
NOW HIRING M/F

Summer & Career Opportunities
(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world
travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean,
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext.
495J.

     
  
 
 

 

    

    
     

 

   
     
  

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

  

    
    

      

 

Miles & Sandy Nye, proprietors

  
   
     
 

ae

- @ ¢

PHONE (703) 463-2323
pemned

ws

&

cee

wit: a

Baa

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Mili St
Stauntcn, Va
885-3409

 

 

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious

3 Accommodations With Superb Service
Eelleeliseliet : . ;
eelleellecllec Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
+ + ee 4 Lamb, Veal, Italian And

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close

Cajun Dishes

Reservations suggested

  
 

   
    

 

 

t

f

‘

4
