Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

VOLUME 87, NUMBER 13

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 14, 1988

 

University issues new standards for frats

 

By David Emrich
Co-Editor

 

As part of its fraternity renaissance
program W&L has published a set of
standards all fraternities must meet.
The Washington and Lee Standards
for Fraternities were introduced in
October after a year and a half of
preparation.

According to Associate Dean of
Students Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins,
the goal of the new standards is ‘‘to
make sure that the fraternities at W&L

* are providing what they should be

providing—which is a quality of life in
an environment that doesn’t detract

* from the academic community and

environment.

“In fact, it should add to it, primar-
ily by providing a social life, and pro-
, Viding a social life in an environment

that would be an asset rather than a de-
triment to the reputation of the whole
community and to the whole universi-
ty.

‘‘The intention is not just to fix up
the houses physically but also to fix up
the fraternities spiritually.’

Toward that end the standards were
developed over the past year and a
half by the Alumni Fraternity Coun-
cil.

The standards, according to the
document's preamble, are intended to
‘give direction and support to those
entities crucial to and responsible for
the vitality of the fraternity system.’’
The preamble goes on to name the six
“‘entities’’ as the University, the
national fraternity, the Interfraternity
Council, the house corporation, the
local chapter and the chapter house.

The standard themselves are organ-
ized into six sections corresponding to
the six entities. Each section spells out

the requirements each particular entity
must observe.

According to the preamble, ‘“These
standards...are not to be construed as
optional guidelines, but rather as
reasonable requirements necessary for
the local chapters to realize the Uni-
versity’s expectations enumerated in
the Board’s ‘Statement Relating to
Fraternities’: Chapters...are expected
to maintain adequately the physical
appearance of the fraternity property
and to assure the structural integrity
of chapter houses. Chapter members
are expected to conform to standards
of gentlemanly conduct and to exhibit
a concern for the rights and sensibili-
ties of others.”’

Five of the six sections of the guide-
lines are ‘‘in effect now,’’ said At-
kins. The sixth section, the part cover-
ing the chapter house, is not.

Said Atkins, ‘‘Everybody’s expec-

IBM and Waxing Poetics
‘to play Superdance ’88

 

By Christie Champlin
* Staff Reporter

 

« The two bands slated for this year’s
Superdance are Waxing Poetics and
“IBM. The dance begins Saturday,
» Feb. 6 at 11 a.m. and continues until
Sunday at | a.m. Waxing Poetics will
" play Saturday at 9 p.m., followed by
» [BMat 11 p.m.
Saturday afternoon will include a
battle of the bands with local bands
«performing. Negotiations to de-
, termine which bands will play are still
* underway as progress continues in the
r planning of this annual fund raiser.
_ Prizes will be awarded in three
categovies this year: highest total do-
‘nation raised, which will receive the
,grand prize; highest cash donation
"raised and highest donation for a
+single organization or fraternity. The
grand prize will be to “someplace
warm for five days and four nights,”’
‘according to Chuck Husting, one of
,the three co-chairmen of the Super-
dance Committee, which has about
*100 student members. The final de-
,tails of the prize are still being worked
out by the Prize Committee, headed

by Debbie Hurtt and Dave Weaver.
Other prizes, said Husting, include
weekends at the Greenbriar, Wil-
liamsburg, and Hotel Roanoke as well
as ski passes for Massanutten and the
Homestead.

Last year more than $25,000 was
raised by the event, which is in its
10th year at W&L. This was the
highest per capita amount raised by
any college or university in the United
States. W&L ranKed second to Syra-
cuse University in the total amount
raised.

Fraternities play a large part in the
Superdance according to Wright Led-
better, the head of. the Fraternities
Committee. ‘‘Fraternities usually ge-
nerate one third of our goal because
they are such a big student organiza-
tion and because of a lot of pledges
and a lot of houses which encourage
students to dance. This year we hope
to get at least as much participation as
in the past,’’ said Ledbetter.

Fraternities contribute in two ways.
They encourage their pledges to
dance, which raises at least $100 per
pledge, and they make separate dona-
tions. ‘‘We would like to encourage
each fraternity to increase its donation

by one dollar per member,’’ said Led-
better adding, ‘‘we really appreciate
what they do and the money that they
donate which’ ultimately goes to a
good cause.’’ Last year more than half
of the houses on campus pledged $200
or above.

To date the pledge classes of Phi
Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha, Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon, Sigma Chi, Phi Kappa
Sigma, Beta Theta Pi, and Pi Kappa
Alpha have agreed to dance. Lambda
Chi Alpha has at least five pledges and
Sigma Phi Epsilon has at least six
pledges who’ve agreed to dance. Phi
Kappa Psi has a national obligation
which will prevent them from danc-
ing.

**Byery fraternity odcrtibiies in-its
own way,’’ stated Ledbetter. ‘‘As
many chances a fraternity has to do a
good deed helps not only with the pub-
lic image of the fraternity, but also the
overall image,’’ he added.

The Special Events Committee, co-
chaired by Kathy Kelso, has organized
three slave auctions at area women’s
colleges and is also organizing pie
throws to be held during the break be-

(See Dance, page 4

‘Two seniors present papers

4

«By Stephanie Guittard
Staff Reporter

 

, Senior anthropology majors John

Metz and William O’Brien presented
*papers at a recent annual meeting of
,the Archaeological Society of Vir-
ginia.

Metz’s paper was titled ‘‘Problems
sin Assessing Structure Function: Ex-
ploring Artifact Distribution at Struc-
ture I of the Liberty Hall Academy
Site Complex.’’ It was co-written with
Kurt Russ, research archaeologist at
"W&L, and John McDaniel, professor
sof anthropology at W&L.

The research for this paper resulted
in the identification of an early frame
schoolhouse located on Mulberry
Hill. The schoolhouse was used prior
‘to the construction of the limestone
sacademy building, of which two walls
are still standing.

"The site was exacavated in 1976 and
11977. It lies behind the baseball field.
The data from these excavations is
Stored in a computer and handwritten
in catalogued forms. Nine structures
have been uncovered, and the depart-
‘ment is collecting the data and present-
ing a paper on each one in turn.
: Metz became involved with the

project through the anthroplogy de-
partment.

“I’ve been working for the an-
thropology department since I was a
freshman on the Liberty Hall project,
and they are putting together a final
site report and they needed labor

scholars to work on this,’’ Metz
stated.

O’Brien’s paper was titled ‘‘What
Do Springhouses ‘Look Like’ Ar-

chaeologically? Defining Material
Culture Patterning at a Late
18th-through 20th-Century Spring-
house from the Valley of Virginia.”’

The paper was also co-written with
Russ and McDaniel. It described the
excavations conducted at the Liberty
Hall Academy springhouse, and com-
pared the data to that of other spring
houses of the same period in the val-
ley. It also provided information on
how springhouses functioned within
the context of domestic sites.

“It was a paper that had to be
done,”’ O’Brien stated. ‘‘I was speci-
fically interested in what the springh-
ouse looked like archaeologically. By
that I mean analyzing the material we
found to see what the pattern was.”’

McDaniel is a memtber of the Ar-
chaeological Society of Virginia,
which is a professional organization of

archaeologists. Annually they meet to
present papers on their projects, their
findings, and the techniques they used
in the research.

Both of the seniors think their
papers were well received.

“It was the first chance I had to
really present a scholarly work in
front of a group, and the experience of
making that kind of public presen-
tation was just tremendous,’’ O’Brien
said. ‘‘It’s a difficult thing, but when
it’s all done it’s very rewarding.”

vocation class schedule will be as
follows:

A—8:00 a.m.-8:45 a.m.
B—8:50a.m.-9:35 a.m.
C—9:40 a.m.-10:25 a.m.
D—10:30 a.m.-11:15 a.m.
E—11:20a.m.-12:05 p.m.
Convocation—12:15  p.m.-1:45
p.m.

F-—1:50 p.m.-2:35 p.m.
G—2:40 p.m.-3:25 p.m.
H—3:30 p.m.-4:15 p.m.
I—4:20 p.m.-5:05  P-m.
J—5:10 p.m.-5:55 p.m.

 

 

 

ted to be in compliance with [the first
five standard] by the first of next Sep-
tember... The principal thing that [the
individual chapters]have to to do is
either develop or revise their by-laws
so that they put them in compliance
with what’s required [by the stan-
dards.] And that they then enforce
those by-laws... and be able to docu-
ment that that’s how they’re operating
their affairs.””

According to the standards, each
chapter’s by-laws must define the du-
ties and responsibilities of all chapter
officers, establish parietal regulations
for residents of the chapter house in
accord with the IFC and the Student
Affairs Committee, prohibit illegal
drugs, provide for regular cleaning
and maintenance of the chapter house,
set guidelines for responsible alcohol
use, require that all members ‘‘behave
as gentlemen’’ and have strict enfor-

cement policies for all the above regu-
lations.

Said Atkins, ‘‘We’re not going to
have a situation where we’ ve got 10 or
12 houses that are in great shape and
everybody’s doing what they’re sup-
posed to do and things are running the
way they’re supposed to run and have
four or five or six others hanging
around on the fringe waiting to self-
destruct.

‘*That’s not intended to be a threat.
It’s just a simple statement that the
standards are set and people are going
to have to get up to them and stay
there in order to survive.

‘‘There’s nothing unreasonable in
those standards. In fact, ...not com-
plying with [the standards] would
probably cause a chapter to fail even-
tually on their own without the Uni-
versity withdrawing any recognition
anyway.”

 

WTP

Although the renovation of the
chapter houses is not the only part of
the overall renaissance, it certainly is
a large part.

Said Atkins, ‘‘Basically what we
want to get out of that is to have all of
our fraternity houses on a standard
pretty close to what the [Phi Gamma
Delta] house is ... basically a brand
new fraternity.’’

The renovation program is ‘‘geared
toward putting all of our fraternity
houses in the condition where they
would have another 50 years of useful
life as really quality places to live and
quality places to have parties,’’ said
Atkins.

However, said Atkins, before a
fraternity can be considered for reno-
vation, it must be in compliance with
the first five parts of the code.

Next week: The Renovation Program

ND:

 

 

 

Take this job...

This workman clearing snow in front of the Co-op Friday morning looks as though he’d rather be doing anything else.

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Seminar attempts to show
students current concerns

 

By Eleanor Nelson

 

Staff Reporter
The Founders Day-ODK Con-

A stock market crash, a weak dol-
lar, a growing national deficit. These
situations confront economists and
members of the business world daily
but do not necessarily confront college
students in their routine of classes and
activities.

These concerns were brought closer
to selected college students when they
met with top level executives recently
to discuss ‘‘Corporate America in the
International Arena.’’ The 200 selec-
ted students and 150 executives met in
Chicago Nov. 8-10 to participate in a

VMI’s cadet investment group risks real funds

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

.

+ ‘The cadets who have been in the
investment group have gotten some
fantastic jobs. The experience in han-
dling $100,000 has really been a plus
in the job market. It gives them a little
bit of an edge,”’ explains Captain Dan-
tel Tatar, the VMI Cadet Investment
Club advisor.

* The Investment Club consists of a
group of 24 cadets who are able to use
real money to actually play the stock
rnarket.

« The group is divided into two com-
peting groups of about 12 people.

“‘T like to call it friendly competition
between the two groups,’’ says Tatar.
With the division into two groups, the
club is kept on a more personal level.
Furthermore, the cadets have an ad-
ded incentive that is not purely
money-based.

Cadets must compete for positions
in the club and take a test. After the
selection process is furnished, Tatar
teaches the cadets how to use the Dow
Jones Data bases to receive and ana-
lyze information about the various
stocks. Once they have learned to ma-
nipulate the computer data, Tatar
gives them no assistance except as a
technical advisor.

According to Tatar, ‘‘Once they

start in, that money is theirs and they
run it totally by themselves.’’ The
cadets are left with the responsibility
of conducting all their own research
and calling their stockbroker at Scott
& Stringfellow in Richmond.

At about every weekly meeting, a
committee makes a presentation for a
stock and tries to convince the other
members to vote for the purchase of
that stock. In the meetings, ‘‘they pick
on each other,’’ says Tatar. ‘*That’s
all part of the process. You’re held
accountable for a real monetary de-
cision.”’

One cadet who invested in Minne-

tonka, a fragrance company which
makes perfumes such as Obsession,

hop ST EY BRR eS

Se AR REPS FRESE om CRIA OT TF TR

had to face the rest of the group when
the shares that he bought at approxi-
mately $18 dropped down to $7 as a
result of the stock market crash.

When the stock market crashed, the
cadets’ losses were lower than the
Standard and Poor 500. One group
currently has $90,000 invested which
is down 10 percent; the other group is
only down 7 percent with $93,000 to
invest. The SNP is down 18 to 20 per-
cent.

The investment club began with
about 12 to 14 cadets who were inter-
ested in playing the stock market. Bob
Wentze actually came up with the
money from the VMI Foundation so
that the cadets would not have to con-
tribute their own money. This year, in

or arr ap FR Te mop!

three-day all expense-paid seminar
sponsored by Princeton University’s
Foundation for Student Communica-
tion. Among the participants was
W&L senior Mike Henry.

The conference’s strength came
from the opportunity for students to
interact with each other and with
professionals from the business
world. Henry commented on the suc-
cess of the group workshops and in-
formal discussions concerning such
current issues as drug testing.

Business and government leaders
brought society’s and the economy’s
problems closer to the students’ pers-
pective by discussing corporate Amer-
ica’s problems and what situations col-
lege students will soon face. Alan
Bloom, author of The Closing of the
American Mind, spoke about his view

of the increasing trend among Ameri-
can college students to keep them-
selves from a broad exposure to nu-
merous subjects. He emphasized the
benefits of a liberal arts education and
knowledge of the classics in today’s
society. He feels that an education
which overemphasizes certain sub-
jects hinders a youth in realizing what
1s Important.

The students also benefitted from
the opportunity to get advice from the
top executives about various fields of
business. There was time for students’
individual questions about approach-
ing the job market after college.

The conference brought together a
diverse group of college and corporate
leaders to address what is going on
now and to consider what can be done
in the future.

in the stock market

its fourth year, over 90 cadets tried
out for 20 slots.

A few of the companies the cadets
have bought stock in are Dow Jones,
U.S. Steel, Squibb, and Dow Chemi-
cals. At the end of the year, the cadets
will sell their portfolio and give the
profit back to the VMI Foundation.
Over the past 3 years, the cadets have
earned over $120,000 in profit. Each
year the investment group starts fresh
with a $200,000 endowment.

Tatar said he became the cadets’
advisor because he’s ‘‘always had a
fascination with the market,’’ and be
cause he has a degree in finance. He
stresses that the cadets’ experience is
important because it ‘‘adds another
dimension to the classroom.’

Oo RE ERRORS mages Secemeprma Tees ceo

ee me

He continued, ‘* You see the Federal
Reserve increase the interest rates,
and you see the stock market crash.
Suddenly, you see what is happening
not just as a classroom discussion.
You're actually holding a position and
having it affect you. That’s where the
real advantage to this process is.”’

**We're not training [the cadets] to
be stockbrokers. [The experience]
helps them to get jobs with the tele-
phone company. It’s a real help in
finding jobs,’’ claims Tatar.

Apparently, the cadet investors who
have graduated are still investing and
playing the market on their own. Says
Tatar, ‘‘I get letters from them all the
time about what they’re doing and
what they’re investing in.’

on ie I weer

 
OPINION

 

Be aware

The upcoming week will be a very important one for the Wash-
ington and Lee community. Drug and alcohol awareness week be-
gins Monday, featuring a schedule of presentations, including a
speech by Len Bias’s mother, and displays. We believe is important
for every student to take the time to understand what is being pre-
sented.

We do not believe that W&L should have a Carrie Nation atti-
tude and raid every fraternity party serving alcohol. We do not
even believe the current legal drinking age is correct (18 as the legal
age would seem much fairer in many ways).

However, we do believe that people who are going to drink or use
drugs should be well aware of the consequences. With the news of
drug and alcohol-related deaths surrounding us, everyone should
realize their actions do affect others.

We urge students not to view the week as being a prod toward
total abstinence. Instead, view the week as an opportunity to learn,
so informed choices can be made. Knowing what one is doing is the
first step in becoming a responsible adult, which is supposed to be
one of the functions of college.

So don’t view the awareness week with disdain. Instead look at it
as an opportunity.

(The Ring-tum Phi would like to note that the opinion expressed
in this column may not reflect the opinions of the Student-Faculty
Health Education Committee, which is sponsoring the event.)

Write in

Perhaps some readers have noticed that there have been virtually
no letters to the editor printed in the past few issues, in fact the en-
tire year so far. Some may ask why this is.

It is certainly not because we’re not printing those we receive. In
fact, it’s our policy to run every letter space permits (and barring
any obscenities). We like to print letters, purely because it’s the
easiest way for members of the school to express their opinion pub-
licly.

Sadly, however, we just have not been receiving letters this year.
Is this because everyone thinks they won’t be printed? Or is it be-
cause too many people think their opinion won’t make a difference?

Either way, the situation is unfortunate. In most newspapers the
letters column serves an important function, letting readers know
what people think about certain issues and events going on around
them. In addition to editorials, columns and cartoons, letters help
the reader better understand the world.

Students, faculty and administration all need to know what the
general feeling on campus is. The letters column is a perfect way
for all these groups become informed. But until members of these
groups take an interest in submitting their opinions, they will con-
tinue to operate in the dark.

So send in your opinion. Otherwise no one will ever make a
difference.

Belted in

In case everyone doesn’t know it yet, there is a new law in the
state of Virginia, requiring everyone to wear seatbelts when in an
automobile.

The law provides that police officers cannot stop motorists for not
wearing a seatbelt. However, anyone who is pulled over for another
offense, such as speeding, can be fined for a seatbelt violation.

Now, it is perfectly arguable to say the government has no right
to force people to wear the belts. If concern for safety of citizens is
the basis for forcing people to protect themselves, what will be out-
lawed next? Parachuting? Smoking cigarettes in private? Walking
on icy sidewalks?

Obviously, many everyday activities of citizen involve some ele-
ment of danger, either long or short term. Although it is commen-
dable for the government to help protect the innocent citizen from
the harmful action of others (drunk drivers, for example), it is de-
plorable for the government to try to protect individuals from them-
selves.

In a ‘‘free’’ society, freedom of individual choice is paramount.
People should have this freedom to the extent that they do not in-
fringe upon the rights of others.

However, the new seatbelt law is in effect, so we advise students
to pay attention to it.

-WSB

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEW STAFF
COE | cin daincibeceabepececeeccazesseccionscobasdasdbreiurces a: Marie Dunne
David Emrich
PE NS ei PCl CE RiGee eo 5 ei eb bed CC LOd Ne CONbROREN Da LEEE Peter Boatner
AMPMBOMONE TRANEE occ cca ceesececccscccctncceeeeereonsereseecess Chris Munsey
BOTH AMEE once cece snccccascesvesvceceseseeetetsereseteseerecens Mike Shady
Ie ii iiiiin ccc cicsteencer niin Michael Tuggle
PROCOBPOPNY HEMOE. 0c sccccsccsncccccccvecsceeneveseceecvoeveres Perry Hayes
COPY OIE isc ccisccccccecescesececrscceetecnceesseceecneecoses Katherine Graci
EDITORIAL PAGE STAFF
Editorial Page Editor .............ccce cece eect eee eeeeeeeeeneeeerenens Sean Bugg
I iid 566 8 aha Ba A Ea es Ca CVA eh Reet eniiers Stephen Ingram
BUSINESS STAFF:
Co-Business Managers.........ssseeereeeeee rere eeeeeneeeaneeeee anes Rhona Hughes
Jason Faust
Advertising Manager.........sssssseeeeeeeeereeeneenaeenenrnnees Christie Champlin
Circulation Manager .........cseeeeesee cence eee eseneneneeareaeeeeeees Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ringtum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

a nD

 

Selling
books

shatters

ideals

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

 

Try to imagine me the last week
of last semester.

(Important note: You will probably
encounter difficulty in doing this since
a college atmosphere tends to discour-
age the use of the imagination. I
suggest that you pretend you are in
high school where you depended heav-
ily on your imagination for a neces-
sary amount of daydreaming (4 to 6
hours). If this does not work drop out
immediately).

I have just taken my last exam. Now
I am walking to the bookstore to sell
my books. My contented state of mind
borders on euphoria. Looking down at
my heavy load of books, I suddenly
think of my father; what sacrifice. Be-
sides mortgaging the house and selling
his car, he took a night job so that I
could have these books.

Thinking about how much they cost
makes me nauseous, but my euphoric
state soon returns when I remember
how much I will get back by selling
them. Probably, I could retire on the
interest alone. This blind idealism was
soon to be shattered. . ‘

When I walked into the bookstore, I
saw him. Yes, with my very own
eyes, I saw that money-wielding de-
mon whose propensity for evil is mat-
ched only by merciless dictators and
Sunday morning evangelists. For lack
of a better term I will call him the
‘*Book Man. ‘* Without even blinking,
the Book Man turned the retirement
fund I expected into a meal at the Co-
op and a trip to the laundromat.

Luckily, I just happened to be carry-
ing a tape recorder with me (your
English professor would say, ‘‘This
tape recorder appearance’’ is plot ma-
nipulation. Don’t worry, this isn’t
English class, it’s a poorly written
newspaper article, and as you all
know anything can happen in poorly
written newspaper articles), and re-
corded the entire conversation. For
your reading pleasure I have put the
taped conversation on paper. I would
be more than happy to lend the Book
Man tape to anyone who doubts that I
walk around with a tape recorder, ve-
cording conversation. The only prob-
lem is that I just locked the tape into
an important document file that cannot
be opened for twenty years. If you are
a disbeliever please see me in twenty
years. Anyway, here’s the conversa-
tion between me and the Book Man.

Me: ‘‘Hi, how much will you give
me for this complete set of Enyclope-
dia Britannicas. A certified appraiser
told me the set’s worth $2,500.”’

Book Man: (barely looking at them)
‘*Well, unfortunately we've already
met our encyclopedia quota. Besides,
they plan on adding a five page section
on monopolies for next year’s edition.
I know this because I’m writing it. I
guess I could give you $9.80 for them
if you throw in your jacket.”’

Me: ‘‘Nine dollars and eighty
cents?! Are you joking? If I charged
myself labor for carrying the damn set
over here, it would cost more than
that. ‘*

Book Man: “‘I apologize but my
hands are tied. Maybe if you try in the
spring...””

Me: ‘‘Thanks, but I think I'll use
the books for starting large factory
fires. By the way, exactly what type of
material is the Book Man Factory
made out of?

Ps
CORRECTIONS

In the last issue of The Ring-tum
Phi, the Director of Career De-
velopment and Placement Rick
Heatley was incorrectly identified
as Richard Heatley. Also, in the
story ‘‘Not one negative response
to column,’’ the quote ‘‘I think
{[McManus’ article] reflected well
on W&L and I think we can be jus-
tifiably proud of it’’ was incorrec-
tly attributed to President John D.
Wilson. It should have been attri-
buted to Brad Root. The Phi re-
grets the errors.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1988

Bla Sat tesolubwr on
Blu thot resoludyg

 

that bine is P7 OR! Whek day te #2. Srday ?
Gaok? Orly 27 more hovers to class. 1 tPhek ZL
Can make it, Well so muck for ny New Year Feseluhion
Not ‘ devak. Too moth of a hang over to do work .

 

   
 
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

Chasing down checks |
just for fun and games —

 

MY VIEW
By Sean Bugg

 

I’ve been playing a game re-
cently, which I’m sure just about
everyone at this university has played.
It’s called ‘‘Beat the Check.’’

The rules to this game are very
simple. First, make sure that you have
no money, or at least less than five
dollars. Next, find some large expense
that you did not expect, one that will
run you at least thirty to forty dollars
(By the way, the game is much more
fun if your credit cards are all maxed
out).

Now comes the fun part; figuring
out how to cover the expense, com-
pletely out of thin air.

Is everyone catching on now?

You write a check of course. 1 know
there are spme purists out there
screaming at the thought of writing a
pure rubber check in Big Lex. ‘‘Peo-
ple like you are going to ruin it for us
all! Pretty soon no one will take our
checks at all!”’

Obviously, these people have never
had their car towed away on a Sunday
morning, while two people desperate-
ly need a ride back to school, and
there are only three dollar bills to be
found in the old wallet.

To the Editor:

come.

 

On behalf of OxFam America sponsored by Al-
pha Phi Omega, I would like to extend our thanks
to the entire Washington and Lee community for
their support in this year’s ‘‘Fast for a World
Harvest’’ held on December 1, 1987. The pro-
gram was quite a success and we managed to raise
our estimated goal. Although this was the first
year of OxFam America on our campus, we hope
that it will be the first of many in the years to

Anyway, you now write a check for
whatever the amount. To make things
more interesting, you can write the
check for more than needed so you
can get extra cash into your hand (you
know, for beer, cigarettes, or safe sex
products). But this version of the
game should only be done by experts.
Amateurs should not try this at home.

Trying to find the money that will
cover the check comes next. Go care-
fully to every friend you have (if you
play this game too often, the list could
be very short) and see if they will spot
you the amount. Remember to look as
needy as possible. Wear old clothes, if
necessary.

The next day, put off going to the
bank as long as possible. Of course,
since the banks in Lexington close at
the ridiculous hour of two o’clock, if
you make it before closing time you’re
safe. But try to make it interesting. Go
to Lloyd’s at 1:45 and play a couple
video games or something (maybe
write another check?).

If you make it to the bank by closing
and get the deposit in, you’ve won the
game. It’s that simple. Losing,
though, is a bad scene, as anyone who
has appeared before the Cold Check
Committee can tell you. I can.

Fortunately everything turned out
okay in this latest round of this game.
I wish I could say I have a perfect re-
cord, but I’m actually batting about

LETTERS

meal for the evening. For this and a great deal of
help, we would also like to thank Mr. Darrell and
his staff. In addition, a special thanks to Phi Ka- ‘
ppa Sigma and Delta Tau Delta whose generous
donations helped us tremendously.

This year’s fast was an important beginning, but
we would like to see it become a significant an-
nual activity on the W&L campus. If you have any
questions or would like to help organize next
year’s fast, please feel free to contact me. Again,

.800.

Of course, these aren’t the only
games that W&L students play to
amuse themselves. There is the old
stand-by, Drop-Add Sheet Roulette:
In this game students try to see how
long they can delay trying to get out of
that ‘‘A’’ hour class, and then see how
many people they can fit into the regis;
trar’s office at one time.

Then there is party favorite ‘‘ Dodge
the Date.’’ This is extremely simple to
play. All you have to do is see how
long you can avoid your date during
the course of an evening. You win if
you never see your date again and you
break even if your date happens td
find you before the night is over,
However, you lose if he or she pours a
beer over your head and ransacks your
room.

‘‘Dodge the Date’’ is usually played
at the same time one plays ‘‘Find a
Quick One-Night-Stand.’’ This game
in itself yields many other fun-filled
amusements, such as ‘‘Get Out of Bed
Without Waking It Up’’ and ‘‘Charge
a Penicillin Shot Home.”’ .

I’m sure there are plenty of people
out there who have games that they
either play or observe, but I can’t
mention them all here. It’s just great
to know that W&L is such a fun-filled
place.

APO thanks benefactors.
for help in charity fast

~

thank you everyone for your support.

The majority of the donations came from Evans
Dining Hall, which sponsored each member of the
meal plan who was willing to sacrifice his/her

Sincerely,
Dan Betendorf
Alpha Phi Omega

 

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1988

 

Skiing class is
extremely popular

 

By Andy Nixon

; Staff Reporter

 

As most students slipped and slid to

* class in the ice and snow this week,
; some W&L students took advantage

of the winter weather to head for the
slopes.

The opportunity to enjoy skiing this
term comes courtesy of the physical
education department and the
Homestead Ski Resort in Hot Springs.

The fact that 220 students, the
largest number ever to sign up for the

. course, attended the first meeting in-
dicates this is one of the more popular
“ courses on Campus.

The Homestead has seven slopes

open to the students encompassing
“over 40 acres. Even though the

Homestead relies upon 100-percent
snow-making procedures, and stu-
dents must provide their own transpor-
tation to and from the ski area, the
price of the program more than com-
pensates the students.

The cost for students with their own
equipment is only $42, and for those
students who rent equipment the cost
is only $60. After paying the fee, stu-
dents receive six sessions of instruc-
tion and practice as well as lift tickets
for all the lessons.

Instruction ranges from beginner to
intermediate and advanced levels,
which allows all students to ski, no
matter from what tropical climate they
might come. So as the ice and snow
prepare to descend once more on the
Lexington area, certain students will
certainly await the white powder with
anticipation.

Seatbelts are law

 

« By Francis Coryell
J Staff Reporter

 

All Washington and Lee students
now have one more thing to worry
, about on their road trip—the new seat
belt law.

Governor Gerald Balilles signed the
, bill in March, and it became law on
Jan. 1. Now, the driver and the front
seat passenger must be wearing their

~.

, Seat belts.

,

Virginia became the 32nd state in
“ the nation to enforce this law. In Vir-
« ginia, the seat belt law is a secondary
law, which means that a police officer
must pull your car over for a different
» reason. An officer can still write out a
ticket, $25 for not wearing the seat
belt, even if the other violation does
+ not result in a ticket.

Although the law requiring seat
belts is new, lawmakers have been try-
+ ing to get it on the books for fifteen
_ years. In 1986 the bill was defeated by

one vote.
¥ According to Charles Bond, Direc-

tor of Information for the Virginia
State Police in Richmond, having the
law enforced as a secondary law may
have been used as a compromise to get
the law passed. If there are fewer
fatalities on the road this year, said
Bond, it is possible that the law could
be ‘‘promoted’’ to a primary law.

Because it is still early in January it
is too soon to judge whether the law is
effective or not. Also complicating the
judgement is that it is difficult to credit
the cause of death in an accident to
just one factor. Bond said that there
may have been fewer deaths on the
road in the year to date than in the
same period last year.

At the end of the month, a summary
will be issued showing how many
tickets have been issued. This is to
gauge how well the law is being ac-
cepted.

According to polls, most believe
that it is a good law. One of the most
commonly asked questions is: ‘‘If a
car has the seat belts torn out, can the
driver still get a ticket?’’ According to
Bond, the answer is yes.

So buckle up or pay up.

‘Memorial service

will honor

{

 

t

’ » From Staff Reports

 

* The W&L Minority Students Asso-

*

ciation will sponsor a memorial ser-
vice for Dr. Martin Luther King at 8
p.m., Jan. 18, at the First Baptist
Church in Lexington. January 18 is
Martin Luther King Day, a national
holiday.

+ The address at the service will be

given by the Rev. Haywood Robin-
son, Jr., pastor of the Diamond Hill

* Baptist Church in Lynchburg and a

close personal friend of King’s.

A native of Lynchburg, Robinson
+ received his B.A. from Hampton Uni-
versity and his doctor of divinity from
the Virginia Seminary. He conducted
’ postgraduate studies at Oberlin Uni-
versity. He is executive director of the

Charlie Benedict, senior‘‘To beat
John Roach in an argument.”’

 

King

Lynchburg Community Action
Project and is a member of the
National Conference of Christians and
Jews.

The service will begin with an invo-
cation by the Rev. James B. Harris,
pastor of First Baptist Church. Ophe-
lia Waters, president of the W&L
Black Law Students Association, will
offer a welcome. Robin Bean, vice
president of the W&L Minority Stu-
dents Association, will provide reflec-
tions on Martin Luther King. Closing
remarks by Anece McCloud, associ-
ate dean of students for minority af-
fairs at W&L, will follow Robinson’s
remarks.

Music for the program will be pro-
vided by Rev. and Mrs. Harris, the
Gospel Way local gospel group, and
the Washignton and Lee women’s
choir.

A reception will follow the service.

SAUDE LONGER EE ACRE RATE NTE EIR
Photos by

Perry Hayes

 

 

Karen Dash, sophomore‘‘! don’t
have one. I didn’t even think about
it.”

 

 

 

On the Defensive

Richard J. Joseph, Strategic Defense Initiative Organization, Department of De-

   

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

fense, spoke last Monday in Lee Chapel. He was second speaker this year in Con-

tact’s lecture series.

Awareness Week starts Monday

 

From Staff Reports

 

W&L will sponsor its second annual
Alcohol and Drug Awareness Week,
Jan. 18-22. The week will feature a
variety of activities designed to
heighten the awareness among stu-
dents, faculty, and staff at W&L of the
problems related to drug and alcohol
abuse. All events are free and open to
the public.

‘‘Our goal is to make the entire uni-
versity community aware of the dev-
astating effects of drug and alcohol
abuse,”’ said Anne Schroer Lamont,
chair of the university’s Health Edu-
cation Committee and associate dean
of students. ‘‘There are. members’ of
the university Community who Rave a
serious problem with abuse. It is our
hope we can educate those individuals
and their friends about the seriousness
of the problem and ways to deal with
ie

Sam Rutigliano, former head coach
of the Cleveland Browns, will kick off

the week’s activities at 7:30 p.m.,
Jan. 18 in Lee Chapel when he will de-
liver a talk on ‘‘An Ordinary Person
Trying To Make A _ Difference.”
Other activities during the week in-
clude two lectures by Bob Lynn, a
substance abuse counselor at Lewis-
Gale Hospital in Roanoke, and a talk
by Lonise Bias, mother of University
of Maryland basketball star Len Bias
who died from a cocaine overdose.

A two-time National Football
League coach of the year, Rutigliano
was a pioneer in dealing with drug and
alcohol problems in sports. As coach
of the Cleveland Browns he formed
the now-famous Inner Circle within
the team. The purpose of the group
was to help-players and their families
come to terms with drug and alcohol
problems and to provide peer support
for those players with problems. Ru-
tigliano credits the group with saving
the lives of 11 players and countless
other individuals who came in contact
with the group.

Rutigliano received his B.A. from
Tulsa University and his M.Ed. from
Columbia University. After coaching
in the high school ranks for eight
years, he coached at the University of
Connecticut and the University of
Maryland before joining the NFL. He
served as an assistant coach for the
Denver Broncos, the New England
Patriots, the New York Jets, and the
New Orleans Saints before being
named head coach at Cleveland. Ru-
tigliano now spends his time doing
commentary on NFL games for NBC
and ESPN and touring the country de-
livering talks on drugs and alcohol
abuse.

A graduate of the University -of
North Carolina, Lynn spent 12 years
in the retail field before entering the
area of drug and alcohol treatment. He
holds a master’s degree in counseling
from Virginia Tech. He is presently
continuing his education in the field of
addiction.

Lynn will speak at 3 p.m. in Nor-
then Auditorium and at 7:30 p.m. in

ODK convocation to induct new

 

From Staff Reports

 

W&L will celebrate Founders’ Day
at 12:15 p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 19 in Lee
Chapel.

W&L President John D. Wilson
will be the principal speaker.

Robert E. Lee died on October 12,
1870. On the day of his funeral three
days later, the board of trustees of
Washington College resolved that
Lee’s birthday, Jan. 19, should al-
ways be celebrated at the College.
This is the 117th such observance.

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
honorary fraternity founded at W&L
in 1914, will tap 24 students and three
honorary initiates during the Foun-

ders’ Day convocation. ODK recog-
nizes superior leadership achiev-
ements in various aspects of campus
life.

The three honorary initiates are
John W. Elrod, vice president for
academic affairs and dean of the col-
lege at Washington and Lee; Stewart
Morris, president and co-chief execu-
tive officer of Stewart Information
Services Corp. af Houston, Tex.; and
NASA astronaut G. David Low, a
1978 W&L graduate.

Elrod came to Washington and Lee
in 1984 from Iowa State University
where he was chairman of the philo-
sophy department. He received his
bachelor’s degree from Presbyterian
College and his master’s and doctorate
from Columbia University. He is the

 

TALKBACK

What was your New Year’s resolution?

 

Fray McCormick, junior‘‘To high
jump higher and get closer to the
school record.”’

 

Lee Brading, junior’*To go to
UVa and watch more sports.”’

author of two books, Being and Exis-
tence in Kierkegaard’s Pseudonymous
Works (1975) and Kierkegaard and
Christendom (1981).

Morris, a native Houstonian, has
devoted his business career to the
management, growth and expansion
of the subsidiary companies of Ste-
wart Title, a network of 1,200 offices
and agencies. He is a past advisory di-
rector of the National Trust for Pres-
ervation and the Harris County Heri-
tage Society. The Morris House,
W&L’s guest house and sem-
inar/reception center, was named for
Morris and his wife Joella, whose
substantial gift to the university made
possible the restoration of the antebel-
lum house.

Low received a B.S. degree in phys-

 

Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

 

 

 

 

Brian Turnau, junior *‘To quit
drinking, but it just didn’t work out.”’

Lee Chapei on Jan. 21. His topic will
be ‘‘Adult Children of Alcoholic Par-
-ents.’’ In his talk, Lynn will address
the problems of adults who grew up in
families where one or both of the par-
ents had problems with drug or alco-
hol abuse. He will also talk about
intervention and how one should ap-
proach a friend or relative who has a
problem with substance abuse.

Bias will speak at 7 p.m., Jan. 22,
in Lee Chapel. Two days after her
son, Len, was the first round draft
pick of the Boston Celtics, he died
from a cocaine overdose. Bias has ta-
ken the loss of her son as a mission to
help others avoid her son’s tragic end.
She tours the country talking about
drugs, alcohol, family, hope and love.

Prior to taking on her current speak-
ing engagements, Bias was employed
by the National Bank of Washington.
She was educated in the public school
system of Washington D.C. and con-
tinued her studies in the area of reli-
gion at the Bible Institute in Washing-
ton D.C.

members

ics-engineering from W&L in 1978, a
B.S. in mechanical engineering from
Cornell University in 1980, and an
M.S. in aeronautics and astronautics
from Stanford University in 1983.
From 1980 to 1984, he worked in the
Spacecraft Systems Engineering Sec-
tion of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
at California Institute of Technology,
where he was involved in the preli-
minary planning of several planetary
missions. Low was selected as an as-
tronaut candidate by NASA in May
1984. In June 1985 he completed a
one-year training and evaluation pro-
gram, qualifying him for assignment
as a mission specialist on future Space
Shuttle flightcrews.

The Founders’ Day convocation is
scheduled to end at 1:30 p.m.

 

Sean Campbell, senior’*To gra
duate.””

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1988

 

Lecture on Lee scheduled

 

From Staff Reports

 

‘Nicknames, Cats and Catsup Bot

A Different View of Robert E
Lee’’ will be the title of a talk by Mary
P. Coulling Tuesday, Jan. 19, at 4:30
p.m. in the Northen Auditorium of the
University Library at Washington and
Lee University. The talk will be fol-
lowed by a reception and both are
open to the public

Coulling’s talk is one of several ac

tles

Wa&L in fiction

 

From Staff Reports

 

William W. Pusey III, professor
emeritus at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, will give a reading of his
paper, ‘‘Washington and Lee in Fic-
tion,’’ Monday, Jan. 18, at 4:30 p.m.
in the University Library’s Northen
Auditorium. Refreshments will be
served following the reading. The
public is invited to attend.

Since the middle of the 19th cen-

tivities scheduled to honor Robert E
Lee on the 181st anniversary of his
birthday (Jan. 19)

Coulling is the author of the re
cently published book, The Lee Girls,
which documents the lives of Lee’s
four daughters. Since the publication
of her book, Coulling has given
several talks throughout the southeast
on the Lee family. *‘Nicknames, Cats
and Catsup Bottles’’ presents a new
view of Lee as a warm and loving
father.

discussed

tury, Washington and Lee has been
extensively discussed in eight fictional
works, the most recent being the best-
selling French novel /’Etudiant
Etranger (The Foreign Student) by
Philippe Labro.

Pusey read his paper to the Fort-
nightly Club, a local literary society,
earlier this year.

In conjunction with Pusey’s talk on
**Washington and Lee in Fiction,’’ an
exhibit on the subject will be dis-
played in the Boatwright Room of the
library from January through March.

 

Dance

 

Continued from page 1

tween the bands Saturday night. The
auction at Mary Baldwin raised $500
and the auction at Sweet Briar raised
$800. Tuesday night a slave auction at
Hollins raised over $1300, with the
Phi Kappa Sigma pledge class being
auctioned for the highest amount.

‘It was by far the best slave auction
of the year,’’ said Christian Blessey,
co-chairman of the Student In-
volvement Committee, adding that ‘‘it
was a really good show emceed by

Cathy Woodward of Hollins College
and Tommy McBride.’’

We are ‘“‘trying harder with the
women’s colleges so we are hoping
for higher participation from them.
The committee is doing a great job. I
hope the rest of the student body is
aware of the importance of participa-
tion and that they are enthusiastic
about participating,’’ commented
Husting. At least one hundred regis-
tration packets have been distributed
at each women’s college, according to
Blessey.

Pledge packets and registration in-
formation can be picked up in Carol
Calkin’s office in the University
Center. Dancers must have at least
$100 in cash or checks to dance.

 

 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

 

 

 

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

   

S.C., 29710, 803-831-2121.

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who
are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them in
their physical, mental and spiritual development. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities and be
dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her poten-
tial. College students, teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP
THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is
an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sail-
ing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing
and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further infor-
mation write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird, Clover,

 
 
   
   

  

   

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

       
   
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      

Lexington’s
Market

Busch Beer ...........000002-9 1-996 vx

Orville Redenbacher 10.5 Oz.

Microwave Popcorn

Campbell’s 10.5 Oz.
Chicken Noodle Soup

Prices Good Jan. 13 thru Jan.

 

  

Senior partying

The first Senior Class Party of
the year will be held on Friday,
Feb. 5, at Zollman’s pavillion
from 10-2. All seniors from W&L,
Hollins, Mary Baldwin, Randolph
Macon Women’s College, and
Sweetbriar will receive written in
vitations in the mail. Music by
‘*The Generics’’ and beverage will
be on tap for all invited guests and
their dates. Questions, call Mike
Henry

Lost

A gold loop bracelet was lost be-
tween the library and Gaines Hall
If found, please call 463-9808.

Music workshop

Relache, The Ensemble for Con-
temporary Music, will perform in
Lee Chapel on Tuesday, Jan. 19, at

 

 

 

 

General

8 p.m. The ensemble will also
conduct a workshop on Wednes
day, Jan. 20, at 1 p.m

Chapel. Both sessions are open to

in Lee

the public

D.C. internship

Students interested in a spring
internship with the Washington
Semester Program or the Supreme
Court should see Professor Conne-
lly in Room 108 of the Commerce
School. Application deadline is
January 22, 1988.

Dostoevsky spits

‘*Brothers Karama-
zov’’/‘‘Brat’ya Karamaso-
vy’’(1968, USSR, US
release-1980, dir. Ivan Pyriev,
color, in Russian with English sub-
titles (when not censored out), 155

Notes

min.(shortened for US audiences
from an original 3-part work) runs
on Fri., 1/22-Sat. 1/23, 327 Com-
merce, 7:30 p.m., sponsored by
the German Dept. Controversial
enough to delay its release, this
epic saga of progress through in-
nocent suffering is vintage Dos-
toevsky, spitting at God and Satan
alike.

D.C. internship

Juniors with a 3.0 (and above)
GPA who would like to be inter-
viewed on Monday, Feb. 8 for a
summer internship with Hecht’s in
Washington, D.C. should sign up
in the Career Development and
Placement Office, University
Center.

  

Surf’s up

“From Here to
(USA, 1953, dir
(“High Noon’’), starring Frank
Sinatra/Burt Lancas
ter/Montgomery Clift/Donna
Reed/Ernest Borgnine, 2 hrs. at
7:30 p.m., Fri. 1/15-Sat. 1/16,
327 Commerce, sponsored by the
Politics Dept. Closely following
James Jones’s famous novel, fea
turing the now-classic ‘‘surf
scene,’’ and evoking Sinatra’s,
Lancaster’s and Clift’s best-ever
acting performances, this eulogy to
*‘the day that will live in infamy”
remains a must-see flick

Eternity”’
Fred Zinnemann |

Formal aid

FAF’s are in the Financial Aid
Office. Pick one up between —
8:30-4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday

 

 

Lip Sync Contest slated for Jan. 22

 

By Melinda Conkling
Staff Reporter

 

Coming to the Generals’ Headquar-
ters soon: Bruce Springsteen,
Run-DMC, U2, and the Grateful
Dead. All these bands and many more
will be represented as the second an-
nual Multiple Sclerosis Lip Sync
Contest takes place on Jan. 22.

The self-

contest is basically

explanatory. Contestants provide their
own tape and are given fake micro-

gs
yt Ta
experience

phones and chairs. Contestants pay $3
for six minutes of actual stage time.

A few of last year’s ‘‘bands’’ were a
Fiji-based group who performed
Run-DMC’s *‘Walk This Way,’” Chi
Psi’s Billy Idol impersonation, Phi
Kap performing Bon Jovi, and the Ca-
lifornia Raisins who did ‘‘Heard It
Through The Grapevine. ”’

Expectations are high for this year’s
contest, according to senior John
Lowe.

‘It’s going to be twice as good as
last year’s,’’ said Lowe, ‘‘The few

mistakes we encountered have been
cleared up. The sound system wasn’t
adequate before, but we are going to
have six speakers this year, and it'll be
great.”’

Spectators can expect to pay $4 to
watch the exhibition which raised
close to $400 last year.

In addition to cash prizes of $50,
$40, and $20 for the top three contes-
tants, there will be door prizes such as
albums, Fancy Dress tickets, and gift
certificates from local restaurants.

‘The Lip Sync contest originated

s
last year when Director of University
Food Services Gerry Darrell, who is
also the Regional Multiple Sclerosis
Director, handpicked a group of stu;
dents who were active and wanted to
conquer student apathy at W&L,’*
said Lowe.

Junior Jim Cobb will be the emcee,
of the competition, which will take
place at 8:30 p.m. on Jan. 22 in the
GHQ.

¥

Any interested contestants can reg-,
ister with Carol Calkins in the Uni-
versity Center. :

a

_ everhad
bel a

ra erie Tasca ys

Spend an unforgettable night at

Wintergreen
Wintergreen

Where every night, you'll find five of
our 10 slopes, lit, ready and waiting for

your skiing pleasure

And where you can save $2 on your
Iwilight Lift Ticket every Wednesday

*

and Thursday

Just present the attached coupon
along with your valid college L.D. after
12:30 p.m, And you can ski all night up

Wintergreen

Charlottesville

For thrill after thrill in the dark

1-804-325-2100

 

until our 11:00 p.m. closing time
So come early and stay late
Because along with the best snow
making in the Mid-Atlantic, you'll find
great food and great entertainment

Just 43 miles southwest of

For reservations, call 1-800-325-2200

For the latest ski reports, call

*Offer good Jan. 13 thru Feb, 28, 1988
with valid college LD.

' Your college

Twilight Lift Ticket

20 Off

Wednesday Or Thursday
12:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m

_&8 Wintergreen

 

en ee cons fg cece a oe ene ae

 

2

~

f
é
‘
d
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1988

 

 

 

 

Senior Simon Perez swims the backstroke in Sunday’s win over Georgetown.

Great performances
turned in by women

 

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee women’s
swimming coach Page Remillard had
anticipated Georgetown’s victory over
the General’s but he was not prepared
for the outstanding performances by
the W&L athletes, which resulted not
only in the relatively close final score
of 129 to 75, but also in the team’s
higher level of confidence.

Remillard stated freely that he was
thrilled with the meet, and he attri-

butes its sustained upbeat mood to the’

team’s success in the first event. Re-
millard never thought W&L could win
the medley relay, and the Generals
were behind until junior Nancy Wha-
len came in as the anchor. Swimming
in freestyle, the two competitors
fought for the lead continously, each
one pulling just a few strokes ahead of
the other. Finally, toward the end of
the lap, urged on by the cheering of
both the fans and her teammates,
Whalen went ahead and won the event
for the Generals.

Such an accomplishment encour-
aged the swimmers as well as the spec-
tators, who provided excellent sup-
port, said Remillard.

“This was an incredible feat in it-

self, and it also set the stage for the
rest of the meet,’’ he said.

Whalen finished with an impressive
time. According to Remillard, she has
been ‘‘training excessively.’’ He also
believes she employed a tactic that he
refers to as “‘leaving your heart in the
pool.”’

That was just one of two particu-
larly notable achievements. Freshman
Kristen Wagner scored a personal vic-
tory while placing third in the
1000-yard freestyle event.

In the 50-yard intervals, which con-
stitute one-twentieth of the race,
Wagner kept her pace within tenths of
her goal plan. As a result, she was
beaten by only four seconds—a time
difference less extreme than Remil-
lard had predicted.

The meet ended with everyone feel-
ing pleased about the events and look-
ing ahead optimistically toward the
next opponent—Johns Hopkins. Re-
millard evaluated Hopkins as a very
formidable Division III team on a par
with Georgetown. And since W&L
performed so strongly against George-
town, the next meet appears less threa-
tening. Remillard summed up the feel-
ing of the team:

‘‘The message we need to send to
Johns Hopkins is that [our program is]
only three years old, and we’re getting
better quickly.”’

 

‘Sophomore Lee Garlove scores a 9-3 victory at 142 Ibs.

against Western Maryland.

Basketball extends streak to four

Archrival Roanoke at the Warner Center tonight

 

By Mike Shady.
Sports Editor

 

Tuesday night at the Warner Center
was the same old story for the W&L
basketball team. The Generals played
poorly but were still able to come
away with a 76-71 win over Mt. Saint

‘*‘No one played well,’’ said head
coach Verne Canfield, whose club
upped its record to 10-1. ‘‘We’re not
adjusting within a ball game. When
someone’s taking something away
from us, we have to be strong enough
mentally to adjust.”

The Generals failed to adjust to the
quickness and tough, fullcourt man-
to-man pressure that the Knights
threw at them. W&L committed 17
turnovers, attributed for the most part
to the lightening-fast hands of Keith
Higgs and Curtis Britt, who each had
four of Mt. Saint Mary’s 15 steals.

The game was close from the open-
ing tipoff to the final buzzer with
neither team able to dominate the
other. The Generals went into half-
time with a 39-33 lead, mainly on the
shoulders of senior guard Steve Han-
cock. Hancock carried W&L during
the first 20 minutes, scoring 17 (in-
cluding 3-3 on three- point shots) of
his game-high 24 points.

The Knights hung close and tied the
score at 57-all with 7:54 remaining in
the second half. Two minutes later,

Mt. Saint Mary had built a four-point
lead at 61-57 and the pressure seemed
to be getting to the Generals.

Somebody, however, forgot to tell
that to freshman forward Ed Hart and
junior guard Emmanuel Klump. With
the Generals trailing 68-67 and 1:15
showing on the clock, Hart flashed
across the lane, turned and popped
home a 14-foot jumpshot to give the
Generals the lead. Delor Johnson
made one of two free throws to tie the
ballgame with :57 left, but then it was
Klump’s turn.

Spinning in the lane, Klump was
fouled with 19 seconds to go. After
confidently stepping up to the line,
Klump cooly swished both of the free
throws. A Knight turnover nine se-
conds later put Klump back on the
line, this time in a one-and-one situa-
tion. But the unfazed junior, who
scored 17 points in the game, buried
both of them and the Generals had a
73-69 lead they would not relinquish.
In all, Klump hit 7 of 8 freethrows
down the stretch.

‘Last year we played like we were
afraid to win,’’ he said. ‘‘We knew we
were going to win this game. We all
had confidence in ourselves. Last year
we would have lost a game like this.”’

With this game behind them, the
Generals, with a 2-1 Old Dominion
Athletic Conference record, can now
look forward to lots of conference
games, starting with the archrival
Maroons of Roanoke College (7-2,

0-1 in the ODAC) tonight at the War-
ner Center. Roanoke was one of the
preseason favorites to win the confer-
ence, although the Maroons got man-
handled last weekend by Emory and
Henry at the Salem Civic Center.

‘They have five players who can
play extremely well together,”’ said
Canfield. *‘T have tremendous respect
for them. They will come in fired up.
You probably have to look it up the
last time they lost two games in a
row.”’

‘‘We just have got to be ready to
play,’’ said Klump. ‘‘I think we have
already proven that we can play with
anyone in the conference."’

HOOKSHOTS—Roanoke had three
players last week battling amongst
themselves to reach the 1000-point
marks for their careers... Can-
field will start freshman guard Mike
Holton instead of senior forward Gary
Schott. Schott has been struggling and
the Generals have had success with the
three-guard offense. Also, Canfield
said they ‘‘match up better’’ against
the three-guard offense of the Mar-
oons... Generals lost last year’s home
game against Roanoke, 81-58, when
W&L shot a pitiful 16 percent from
the floor in the second half... Tipoff
will be at 7:30 p.m. with the game be-
ing carried live on 91.5 WLUR...

University Bookstore

AFTER-CHRISTMAS SALE

1988 Calendars & Books

40% Off
Jan. 14 to Jan. 29

ArtCarved representative will be in Bookstore

Jan. 14-15 10.a.m. - 3 p.m.

 

Swimmers halt Hoyas

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Led by three first-place performan-
ces from sophomore Shawn Cope-
land, including his best time ever in
the 200-yard freestyle, the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s swimming team re-
corded a 20-point win over George-
town Sunday at Cy Twombly Pool.

“I really enjoyed this meet,’’ said
head coach Page Remillard. ‘‘We had
some outstanding swims across the
board. I felt really good about W&L
swimming Sunday.”’

Copeland started his hat trick by
taking a two-second win in_ the
200-yard freestyle. His time of
1:47.03 shattered his previous best by
four seconds and puts pressure on ju-

 

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

 

nior David Reavy, who holds the
school record in the 200 but has been
out of competition due to illness.

Copeland recorded his second win
of the day in the 200-yard butterfly,
edging W&L junior Moose Herring
by almost four seconds. In Copeland’s
first appearance in that event this
year, his time of 2:01.92 was the best
performance by a General this season.

A native of Charleston, West Vir-
ginia, Copeland completed the hat
trick by taking first place in the
200-yard breast stroke. Once again
there was no waiting for the instant
replay, as Copeland beat out W&L
freshman Tomas Perez by over three
seconds, 2:18.07 to 2:21.54.

After the meet, Remillard called
Copeland’s success an example of
hard work and a great attitude paying
off. ‘‘He’s been working very, very

hard. He came back early, on Decem
ber 26, and has just taken everythin;
that we've given him. The guy’s atti
tude is just terrific.”’

Herring also performed well for th«
Generals, taking first in the 1000-yar<
freestyle in 10; 19.57 and the 200-yarc
backstroke with a time of 2:08.57
Other firsts for W&L were recordec
by juniors Jeff Bercaw and Davic
Dietz, who tied for the win in the
50-yard freestyle with times of 22.71
and by the 400- yard medley relay
team of freshman James Dunlevy
Perez, Bercaw and Dietz. Perez alsc
had his own first place, a win in the
200-yard medley with a time ol
2:04.36.

The Generals will return to competi-
tion this Friday, January 15, when
they face Shippensburg College in a
dual meet at Cy Twombly Pool.

Grapplers falter in
heavier classes

Generals blow 17-0 lead

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

The W&L wrestling team got the
light and the heavy of it last weekend
in a dual meet against Western Mary-
land at Doremus Gymnasium. Light in
the sense the lower weight classes
dominated. Heavy in the sense the
higher weight classes were unable to
hold onto an early lead as the Generals
lost 28- 22.

W&L got off to a fast start, grab-
bing the first four weight classes. The
Generals, 0-1, began things with
freshman Rich Weinstein winning by
forfeit at 118 Ibs. Senior Steve Castle
then scored a 21-9 victory at 126, fol-
lowed by an 8-0 win by senior John
Lowe at 134 and a 9-3 triumph by
sophomore Lee Garlove. Team score
at this point: Generals 17, Western
Maryland 0.

‘‘We got some outstanding perfor-
mances from our guys in the lower

weight classes,’’ said head coach Gary
Franke. ‘‘But, we just came up a little
short.”’

Short, indeed. Western Maryland
took the next four matches, including
two pins and a technical fall. The turn-
ing point of the meet was when senior
Kevin McNamara was pinned at :58
of the second period in his bout at 158.
After William Avery suffered a pin at
1:51 of the second at 177, the Gen-
erals saw themselves trailing 22-17.

Junior Greg Loupassi earned a
tough 6-4 win at the 190 weight class
to make the score 22-20 going into the
heavyweight division, but Western
Maryland wrapped up the meet with
another pin.

The Generals will travel to wrestle
in the Lebanon Valley Dual Meet Invi-
tational Tournament on Saturday.
W&L will take on the winner of the
Baptist Bible/Lebanon Valley match
in the morning. Each team, regardless
of whether it wins or loses, is guar-
anteed three dual matches.

SENIOR NIGHT
at the GHQ

featuring music by:

THYSS

Friday January 15th
9p.m.-1a.m.

Admission:
Seniors $1.00
Underclassmen $3.00

 
=BACK PAGE
Hughes & Hollywood grow up

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

‘Tis the season for bittersweet
comedies, or at least ones that know
how to tug on the old heartstrings. Just
when it seemed that Hollywood had
become obsessed with violence, mur-
der, and adultery (a la nearly every
major film released before Novem-
ber), along came three handsome
bachelors, two stranded clowns, and a
baby in a pink hardhat to save the day.
Maybe Hollywood is starting to grow
up a little. Now we will just have to
wait and see whether Planes, Trains,
and Automobiles and Three Men
and a Baby are the rule or the excep-
tion.

While the verdict is still out on
Hollywood, there is no question that
John Hughes has finally jumped over
from his sophomoric world of tragica-
lly naive parents and rebellious teen
control into the wonderful world of
adulthood. In short, Hughes has fina-
lly learned how to make a touching
film that neither goes overboard nor
insults your intelligence with its ab-
surdity.

Until now, all of Hughes films have
been nothing more than amusing fan-
tasy anecdotes about what it would be
like if teenagers could make up life’s
rules. Pretty in Pink, Ferris Buel-
ler’s Day Off and Some Kind of
Wonderful which Hughes produced,
all tried to make serious points in the

midst of slapstick and sassy dialogue
and totally missed their marks. Even
Hughes’ most successful film The
Breakfast Club, which at times pos-
sessed a poignant insight into the often
cut-throat world of high school, just

 

JOHN CANDY

STEVE MAREN
AND AL TOMOBILES

PLANES TRAINS

 

 

 

 

The funniest film of the season.

never reached its potential; a typical
Hughes trademark. That is, until now.

In Planes, Trains, and Automo-
biles John Hughes proves that he too
can be a real director. The story, the
actors, and the resolution of the film
are all wonderful. John Candy puts in
the finest overall performance of his
career as the rotund king of shower

Hot new sounds
from The Silencers

 

By Greg Unger
Music Critic

 

Behold the Silencers’ debut album
A Letter from St. Paul--an artistical-
ly superb first effort from this Scottish
quartet. Though pop oriented, this
stuff still retains an authentic progres-
sive persona that is anything but tri-
vial. Their music is up-tempo and cat-
chy without being teeny-bopper- like.

**Painted Moon”’ starts the L.P. off
and is fairly reresentative of the whole
album. The Silencers make effective
use of synthesizer molested guitar
work that is refreshingly different and
that is what sets their music apart from
the veritable plethora of ‘new’ music
that continually bombards us. ‘‘I
Can’t Cry”’ is slower and more poig-
nant but the first side immediately,
picks up again with ‘‘Bullets and Blue

Skies.’’ ‘‘God’s Gift’’ rounds out the
**A”’side.

The ‘‘B’’side starts off with proba-
bly the best tume on the whole
album-- ‘‘I See Red.’’ In fact, the
whole second side is, strong. ‘‘A Let-
ter from St. Paul,’’ the title track, is a
wonderfully weird tune with that
characteristic guitar work and some
manic/depressive dialogue from guest
Mary Lou Colombo. No singing here,
but take a listen. ‘‘Possessed’’ is a
fiery dance track that resembles the
faster music by The The on their In-
fected L.P.. It gets stronger every
time one hears it.

I believe we can expect more music
from The Silencers of this and even
better quality. I also heard somewhere
that they could go on tour around
these here parts sometime this spring.
Add this to your collection.

Ear Value: ***1/4 (out of 4)

Merle Norman/Wolff Tanning

M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

Rt. 11 North

STUDENT RATES

463-1782

Solar Nails/Manicures
5 visits $25.00

10 visits $39.00
25 visits $79.00
$6 per visit
1st visit free
“Free Visit to Tanning Bed With This Ad”’

 

FOR SALE:
Hewlett-Packard
Financial
Calculator
Call
463-6445
After 5p.m.
463-3012

 

 

Parttime-Home Mailing
Program!

Excellent Income! Details, send self-
addressed, stamped envelope. West,
Box 5877, Hillside, NJ 07205

curtain rings Del Griffith. Candy's
ability to act without humor is a di-
mension of his talent that the public
hasn’t seen before and one that may
surprise you. While Candy is good,
Steve Martin is fantastic.

Steve Martin has for many years
been one of Hollywood’s foremost
comedians but his last two roles as
straight men in this summer's smash
Roxanne and now in Planes, Trains,
and Automobiles are establishing him
as a fine actor as well. Last year,
many critics were crying that Martin
was robbed of a Best Supporting
Actor nomination at the Academy
Awards for his role as the sadistic den-
tist Orin Scrivello in Little Shop of
Horrors. Maybe this spring he'll
receive one for Best Actor.

The chemistry between Candy and
Martin works from the very begin-
ning. From the moment Candy steals
Martin’s cab in downtown Manhattan
it’s off to the races on a hilarious ride
of annoyance, friendship, and ultimate
compassion. This film works because
of the attention Hughes pays to the
little things. Candy’s pajamas that
match the curtains of every motel
room he and Martin stay in, the
charred Diner’s Club Card, the car
rental receit that blows away, the mel-
ted speedometer, the velvet painting
of Roy Orbison on the motel wall;
they all add to the beauty of this film.
Hughes gives the audience just enough
but he never goes overboard.

While all of this works, it is still the
finale that makes this film a real gem.
The conclusion is compassionate, its
beautiful, and its what Hollywood has
been missing for quite some time; the
happy ending. Bravo to John Hughes.
He is finally learning what it takes to
make a real movie.

 

 

Leonard Nimoy isn’t doing too ba-
dly himself. After his directorial suc-
cess of Star Trek III: The Search for
Spock in 1984 and Star Trek IV: The
Voyage Home in 1986, Nimoy turned
to a more humorous story and set out
to remake the 1985 French film smash
Tres Hommes et une Coffin. Three
Men and a Baby is currently the
United States’ fourth highest grossing
film released last year.

Three Men and a Baby is a movie
that just makes you feel good. Watch-
ing three obviously clueless men try-
ing to feed, wash, and take care of a
baby’s ‘‘doodles’’ is simply amusing.
In fact, watching anyone taking care
of a baby is funny. W.C. Fields once

=

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1988

said ‘‘If you don’t ever want to be up-
staged, don’t ever work with animals
or children.’’ After seeing Three
Men and a Baby one can understand
his sentiment. Baby Mary steals more
than just scenes in the film. She steals
your heart.

Tom Selleck, Ted Danson, and
Steve Guttenberg give fine perfor-
mances as the the architect who can’t
figure out how to put on a diaper, the
cartoonist who can’t stop Mary's cry-
ing, and the actor who finds out that
being a father is not a two-month
shoot but a perminent role. The three
men work beautifully as an ensemble
and really make the film work. The
scene where they sing ‘Goodnight
Sweetheart’ to the baby is wonderful.

The only thing about the film that
hurts it is that it gets dragged down in
a drug subplot that doesn’t belong.

 

 

Lessons on Fatherhood?

Other than that Three Men and a
Baby is very amusing and a treat that
everyone who likes to feel good
should see. And while your there,
check out what has got to be one of
New York’s coolest apartments.

Pianes, Trains, and Automobiles
and Three Men and a Baby will
make you laugh and it will miake you
cry, but it will give you some insight
into people and their emotions. Com-
passion and human nature are funny
things. I guess that’s why it’s so beau-
tiful when directors get them just
right.

TUG’S TAGS: Planes, Trains,
and Automobiles marl?
Three Men and a Baby ***

 

a

alenda

7 p.m.— MEN'S SWIMMING: Generals vs. Shippensburg. Warner
Center.

7:0 p.m.—GEOLOGY SLIDE SHOW: ‘‘Over the Hill and Around
Annapurna,‘* Dennis Slifer and Steve Richards, from their recent trek
in the Nepal Himalayas. Northern Auditorium, University Library.
Public invited.

7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: From Here to Eternity. Room
327, Commerce School.

Saturday, January 16
All Day—MEN’S & WOMEN’S SWIMMING: W&L Senior Invita-
tional. Twombly Pool.
2 p.m.—OPERA BROADCAST: Wagner’s Das Rheingold.
WLUR-FM (91.5).
7:30 p.m.—JEWISH STUDENT UNION FILM: Yentl. Room 203,
Reid Hall.
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: From Here to Eternity. Room
327, Commmerce School.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASKETBALL: Emory & Henry;
WRESTLING: Lebanon Valley.

Sunday, January 17
All Day—MEN’S & WOMEN’S SWIMMING: W&L Senior Invita-
tional. Twombly Pool.

 

W&L Alcohol and Drug Awareness Week (Jan. 18-22).
4:30 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘*Washington and Lee in Fiction, ‘‘ William W.
Pusey, S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor of German Emeritus. Northern
Auditorium, University Library. Reception to follow. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.—ALCOHOL AND DRUG AWARENESS LECTURE: ‘‘An
Ordinary Person Trying to Make a Difference,‘ Sam Rutigliano, for-
mer head coach of the Cleveland Browns. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Tuesday, January 19

Robert E. Lee’s Birthday
12:15 p.m.—ODK/FOUNDER’S DAY CONVOCATION: Address to
be given by W&L President John D. Wilson. Lee Chapel. Public In-
vited.
4:30 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘Nicknames, Cats and Catsup Bottles/A
Different View of Robert E. Lee,‘‘ Mary P. Coulling, author of The
Lee Girls. Northern Auditorjum, University Library. Reception to fol-
low. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.—BASKETBALL: W&L vs. Eastern Mennonite. Warner
Center.
8 p.m.—CONCERT GUILD: Relache Ensemble for Contemporary
Music. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Wednesday, January 20
1 p.m.—RELACHE ENSEMBLE MUSIC WORKSHOP: Lee Chapel.
Public invited.
4-5 p.m.—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Summer
Jobs Workshop. Room 109, University Center.
4:30 p.m.—GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Poetry
reading by A.R. Ammons. Northern Auditorium. Public invited.
9-12 p.m.—WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN THE GHQ: Doug Clark and
the Hot Nuts. General Headquarters. Sponsored by the S.A.B.

Thursday, January 21

All Day—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Mock
Video Interviews (advance sign-up in CD&P office). Room 103, Uni-
versity Center.
3 p.m,—ALCOHOL AND. DRUG ABUSE LECTURE: ‘‘Intervention
Technique and Adult-Children of Alcoholics,‘ Bob Lynn, substance
abuse counselor, Lewis Gale Hospital. Northern Auditorium, Universi-
ty Library.
7:30 p.m.—ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE LECTURE: “‘Interven-
tion Technique and Adult-Children of Alcoholics,‘‘ Bob Lynn. Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Bridgewater.

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

EEN EE ES
s + ee Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
E||éE
celleelleellee | Lamb, Veal, Italian And
pies tre Feed Cajun Dishes
OR, Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.
1 Mil St
Staunton, Va Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close
885-3409 Reservations suggested

 

porge’s Hairstylis
since 1963

directly behind Leggett’s

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

 

 

 

 

 

TYPISTS: Hundreds weekly
at home!
Write:
P.O. Box 17
Clark, New Jersey 07066

 

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Set., 16-5
31S. Mein $t., Lexingten 463-3355

 

 

 

 

°88 COLLEGE DAYS

 

THE SANDWICH
SHOP

Complete Line of
*Sandwiches
*Box Lunches
Party Platters

Choose from a variety of
menus, and our own
prepared soups and salads

¢Catering Service Available
‘Fine quality sandwiches at
reasonable prices’”’

463-2595
Old Main Street Mall
Corner of Henry St. & Main St.
“Across from Henry St. Playhouse"’

 

 

mately $100.00)

*Hotel Taxes

 

 

21 West Washington Street, Lexington, Virginia 24450

*Four Day Lift Pass for Unlimited Use

 

703-463-7174

SKI VAIL

24 March- 28 March

PACKAGE INCLUDES:
*Round Trip Air Between Washington Dulles and Denver
* Transfers Between Denver and Vail

*Four Nights Lodging at the Doubletree Hotel (Based on Double Occupancy, Single Supplement Approxi-

$529.00 per person.

Reservations must be made by 22 January - $150.00 deposit per person

 

W&L

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

11 W. Nelson St.
PHONE 703-463-2022

 

 

Lexington, Va..24450

SUMMER JOBS
4UR GUEST RANCE

This exclusive guest ranch,
located high in the San Juan
Mountains of Colorado, is

now accepting applications

for all positions. For
information and application,
Call (303)658-2202, of write
Rock Swenson, 4UR Guest Ranch,
Creede, Colorado 81130

   
 

   
 

Ski
Rentals

Lift
Ticket

OE

* Come for any Monday or Friday Twilight ski period.
¢ Present your valid college student ID, full or part time.
¢ Buy a lift ticket for just 88 Rentals for $8.
¢ Enjoy the slopes from 12:30 to 10 PM, Monday.
Friday til 11 PM.
Special College Days lift ticket and rental rates are available for Twilight Skiing on
Monday and Friday only. Other special rates and discounts may not be applied to
these rates

MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

Snack Bar

Ree

pecial of the Month
Steak Sizzler
and
Large Soft Drink

$1.89 or 1 % pts.

 

 

 

 

Se eral ak TI ON ae ih ll le SERS EH
