r+

f 3378. 155

Che Rin

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

*€e

Y

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

-tum Phi

APRIL 21, 1988

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 87, NO. 78
=
o/s
NT @
N
" o o ~
Bie iF
o
=
2
e <
= o
= fF wfft
a Ofc {2
wo of} O [ct
GO ITOL aia
aja }o = i¢
Qa _ E oO a
Sift iaiz EG
< oO a Oix

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fraternity rankings
for combined Fall & Winter GPA

 

 

©
o
© ianletio
N oT OQ t- | 2 fo
Nin tlw l& lo [oto
N : . ~ oO
N N w lo os
. . st
Nia fo fo |e
N ww w
Nia
st
o
o
N
¢
£ S e
a @ = 2 wo
zajO jc 7s tat « a
3 a} o Sere Tc SC | ow
ofsisctiaj}a2 Seiceignizc iz
SEBS IZLE LT SITELats . ie
© apr oT es CECT Oe ow QO {2
Sis “IX IOISIas | E ©
€ x = e — — a x -_ oD —— ~
Oicltiopy etc fie 4— [2 f= < ®
G6 2O30 Oo £6. 18a | ” N

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Next year’s Rush Calendar
defers pledgeship until Jan.

By David Emrich
Co-Editor

The 1988 Rush Calendar that was
distributed at Tuesday’s Interfraterni-
ty Council meeting contained three
major revisions in rules governing
fraternity pledge programs.

First, according to the new calen-
dar, no fraternity will be allowed to
begin its pledge program until the first
week of winter term.

According to the calendar, for the
entire fall term the ‘‘new members
will be social members only with no
obligations other than financial and
house cleanups on the weekends in
which as many actives as new mem-
bers participate.’’ Second, the new
members of a fraternity will also be
subject to a minimum GPA require-
ment of 1.9. No new member will be
allowed to begin a pledge education
program unless he fulfills the mini-
mum GPA requirement.

According to IFC President Ross
Singletary, any new member that does
not meet the minimum GPA require-
ment will remain a social member of
the fraternity until the next pledge
training program begins.

He says there are no rules against a
social member of a fraternity living in
the fraternity house nor are there any
plans to make a rule prohibiting social
members from living in the fraternity
house.

Third, no pledge program may last
longer than ten weeks. The calendar
expressly stipulates ‘‘initiation must
occur by the end of the tenth week of
[winter term].”’

 

 

- Stamberg lectures on
_ responsible reporting

«

’

.

*

*

;

‘

t

4

4

“

4

- College Placement Council’s data

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-editor

 

Susan Stamberg, the first woman to
anchor a nightly news program in the
United States, gave the second Eli-
zabeth Lewis Otey Lecture Monday in
Lee Chapel.

Stamberg, who was a co-host of

\ National Public Radio’s ‘‘All Things
Considered’’ for 14 years and curren-
tly is host of NPR’s ‘‘Weekend Edi-
tion,’’ spoke on variety of topics in-
cluding responsible reporting and the
role of women in journalism.

Comparing two recent films on
journalists, Broadcast News and Good
Morning, Vietnam, Stamberg said she
thinks that the disc jockey character in
Good Morning, Vietnam was more re-
sponsible journalist ‘‘because the
radio disc jockey took his listeners so
seriously.’’

Robin Williams’ character did his
job and served his listener ‘‘by giving
them a chance to relax, even for 20

In Broadcast News, the female pro-
ducer becomes angry when she dis-
covers that William Hurt’s character
has faked tears for reaction shot in a
particular story.

Stamberg calls this ‘‘Hollywood
hairsplitting,’’ saying that the incident
is no different from ‘‘cutaway’’ reac-
tion shots of reporters nodding or
smiling. These shots are routinely fil-
med after the interview has been com-
pleted, she said.

The female producer was worthy of
criticism because she was willing to be
a puppeteer for Hurt’s character, she
said. The producer talked the unpre;
pared reporter through a difficult
interview by whispering information
to him through a headpiece.

‘*William Hurts are everywhere,
especially in local news,’’ said Stam-
berg, ‘‘but we will always eventually
turn to the Robin Williams’s.”’

Stamberg said she takes the accur-
acy of her reports very seriously.
NPR’s policy is to never splice a reph-
rased question into an interview. All
questions must be restated in front of
the guest. Reporters cannot use a re-
corded sound to make it seem as
though the reporter is somewhere she
isn’t.

Stamberg said it is sometimes diffi-
cult to adhere so strictly to the rules.
In one instance, she was doing a story
on Africa. She wanted to use the
sounds of insects in the background,
but the only recording she had were of
insects in Nicaragua. She decided to
tell the listener where the sounds came
from, and then asked them imagine
they were in Africa.

Stamberg said accuracy of the in-
sects may seem to be a trivial point,
but she said it is necessary that journa-
lists keep the listeners’ trust.

‘*We must maintain that contract be-
tween you and us. We must tell you

Stamberg said that she also, ‘‘as a
matter of practice,’’ turns off her tape
recorder when a guest that is being

In addition to the three major

 

 
  

43
a:
; -

gy

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Susan Stamberg talks with Professor of Journalism Robert de-

Maria.
interviewed breaks into tears. She al-
lows the guest to regain his composure
before continuing.

At many television and radio
stations, footage of someone crying is
considered ‘‘hot tape,’’ she said.

“*We must never lose sight of the
fact that the news happens to and is
caused by people,’’ said Stamberg,
“It’s people shedding those tears.’’

Too often, the tears, rather than the
cause of the tears, become the story,
she said.

Some of Stamberg’s more con-
troversial statements came during her
discussion of the role of women in
journalism.

Women journalists tend to be more
sympathetic listeners, to ask more
questions and double check their facts,
and have a greater tendency to be or-
ganized, she said.

Because of these attributes, ‘‘by the
simple notion of presence, women af-
fect the stories that get covered and
the way they are covered.”’

She said that women in journalism
are often in a ‘‘catch- 22’’ situation
when they answer the question ‘‘Does
gender affect performance?”’

If women say no, Stamberg said

they are not being accurate or real-

JSee NPR, page 4

changes in the pledge programs there
are several other differences between

last year’s calendar and this year’s.

Last year contact of any kind was
forbidden at all but a few periods de-
signated as contact periods. This led
to some problems as fraternity mem-
bers were not allowed to speak to
freshmen they happened to meet on

the hill.
This year,

mitted on campus.”’

According to Singletary, ‘‘the pre-

vious rules were impractical.’’

The number of informal contact
periods in this year’s rush calendar
has increased. Singletary said the IFC
thought there wasn’t enough casual

contact in last year’s calendar.

According to the calendar, ‘during
Orientation Week, September 4-9, ca-

sual contact is permitted on campus.
No freshman may be in fraternity
houses or at events anywhere spon-
sored by or for fraternities.

‘‘During the period prior to formal
rush, September 10-15, freshmen may
visit fraternity houses between noon
and 8:00 p.m. on Sunday through
Thursday. On Saturday, September 10
and at all other parties during Rush,
freshmen may attend.”’

As with last year’s rush, all Rush
functions are BYOB.

According to the Calendar,
‘‘Fraternities are expressly forbidden
to serve or provide alcohol at any of
these events to freshmen or upper-
classmen. Anyone who chooses to
drink must provide his own alcohol.”’

Singletary said because this year’s

 

By David Emrich
Co-Editor

 

Early Sunday morning, for the sec-
ond time in five weeks, unidentified
shots were fired in Lexington, accord-
ing to Lexington Chief of Police
Bruce M. Beard.

Beard said the most recent incident
occurred at 12:35 a.m. last Sunday.
He said Officer Phillip Joines had
stopped a car for a traffic violation on
Lechter Avenue when Joines heard
two shots in the vicinity of the corral.
Beard said several moments passed
and then Joines heard two more shots.

‘*We’ve thought we’ve heard shots
in Lexington before and they’ve
turned out to be firecrackers but this
officer [Joines] is well trained in
firearms and was able to identify them
as gunshots,’’ said Beard.

Beard said the incident is still under
investigation.

On Tuesday night Beard spoke to
the InterFraternity Council and asked
for cooperation from the fraternities in
the matter.

“I’m not pointing fingers at any
student or any fraternity,’’ said Beard.
‘I’m just asking for your cooperation.

“If any member of your fraternity

“from the arrival of
freshmen ... in Lexington casual con-
tact with [fraternity] members is per-

Rush is so much different from any in
the past the IFC wants to make sure
the freshmen understand their rights
and obligations under the new rules.

Toward the end of educating the
freshmen the new calendar incorpor-
ates two formal meetings into the rush
schedule. One on Sept. 16, before
Rush starts, and the second on Sept.
26, after rush ends.

In other business; Tuesday's meet-
ing was the first for the new IFC Judi-
cial Board. Taking office at the meet-
ing were Singletary as President, Jeff
Kelsey as Vice-President, John Roach
as Treasurer, Chris Willard as Secre-
tary, lan Thompson as Senior Justice,
David Gildea as one Junior Justice,
Hunt Niedringaus as the second Junior
Justice, and Frank Cannapel as the
Public Relations Chairman.

Singletary said the Judicial Board
would appoint Rush Book Editors at
next Tuesday’s meeting.

The IFC has set a tentative schedule
for Greek Week, to be held April
27-30.

According to Singletary, on Wed-
nesday, April 27, in the afternoon
there will be a volleyball competition
for fraternities. That evening at 6:30
p.m. a live band will play on the Co-
lonnade. Singletary said the band had
not yet been determined.

On Thursday, April 28, Singletary
said a soccer competition will be held.
On Friday, April 29, the fraternities
will compete in an ultimate frisbee
competition.

Singletary said the finals of all three
competitions would be held on Satur-
day, April 30, just before the Lee-
Jackson Lacrosse Classic.

=| Officer hears shots;
all 2nd incident this year

has firearms in the house and is using
them recklessly I ask that you take the
firearm from that person.

“‘T think that you, as house presi-
dents, have the authority to take the
firearms from them.”’

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
C. Atkins said that under the new
Washington and Lee Standards for
Fraternities no fraternity member may
keep a gun ina fraternity house.

He said if anyone has a gun in a
fraternity house then it must be re-
moved from tne house and stored
either in someone’s apartment or with
university proctor Charles F.
“*Murph’’ Murray.

Five weeks ago two Lexington
Police officers, Warren Kutz and
James Ruley, were travelling south on
Jefferson St. when police believe the
front window on the passenger side of
their car was shattered by a bullet.

Neither officer was injured in the
incident.

According to Beard, the police
found a spent cartridge from a
.300-caliber magnum near where the
car was hit but did not find the slug.

Beard said some of the lab reports
on the first incident have come back
but he is waiting for the rest to come
back before he makes a statement.

Festival to educate
about heart disease

From Staff Reports

 

_ finds graduates’ salaries are higher

»

‘

 

From Staff Reports

 

The college recruiting picture for
1987-88 continues to look bright, if
average salary offers are an indica-
tion. According to data compiled by
the College Placement Council (CPC)
for its second Salary Survey report of
the season, most disciplines that
showed salary increases in January
posted even further gains as of March.

Salary offers for accounting gra-
duates took another jump to an aver-
age of $23,700 a year—now 9 percent
higher than last July. The dollar aver-
age for graduates in marketing and
distribution rose 2.7 percent since
July, to $20,904. In banking/finance
and human resources, two business
categories added to the report this
year, salary offers were about the
same as January. Banking/finance
graduates average $21,792, while

human resource graduates averaged
$19,212.

In January, petroleum engineers
made a comeback in terms of salary.
This trend continued into March, with
the dollar average rising to $33,840, a
9.8 percent gain since July. This boost
is coupled with a significant turnar-
ound in the number of job offers to
petroleum engineers—up 36 percent
compared with last year at this time.

Mechanical, electrical, and chemi-
cal engineers also experienced in-
creases in salary offers. The average
for mechanical engineers climbed 3.8
percent since July to $29,388, while
the average for electrical engineers
went up 1.4 percent to $29,316. The
dollar average for chemical engineers
rose to $30,768—a 3.1 percent in-
crease over July’s figure.

The allied health field is holding
steady. Dollar offers ranged from
$19,440 to $30,000 with an average of
$24,660—about the same as in Jan-

uary. Salary offers for nurses fell
slightly since January. In this latest
report, they ranged from $18,996 to
$28,368 and averaged $23,604.

Computer science graduates gar-
nered slightly higher dollar offers than
last July for an average of $26,676.
However, the number of job offers ex-
tended to this group decreased 2 per-
cent since last year at this time. Salary
offers for computer programmers
ranged from $20,064 to $30,492 and
averaged $25,944, a little higher than
in July.

Of all job offers made to bachelor’ s-
degree holders, 53 percent went to
nontechnical graduates while 47 per-
cent were extended to technical gra-
duates. Public accounting employers
made the most offers to nontechnical
graduates (45 percent). Their average
salary offer to these graduates was
$24,024. The aerospace industry con-
tinued to provide the greatest concen-
tration of job offers to technical gra

duates (16.5 percent), at an average
pay of $29,280.

The outlook for MBA graduates is
still optimistic. Only inexperienced
MBA candidates with nontechnical
undergraduate degrees encountered a
drop in salary offers—4.4 percent
since last July to $30,480. On the
brighter side, experienced MBA gra-
duates with nontechnical degrees
received higher salary offers. Inexper-
ienced MBA graduates with technical
undergraduate degrees reaped 8.4
percent higher dollar averages com-
pared with last July. Experienced gra-
duates with technical degrees were
offered substantially higher salaries as
well. The greatest concentration of sa-
lary offers to MBA’s came from pub-
lic accounting employers.

In addition to the current published
report, salaries by job location are be-

See Salaries, page 4

Members of the W&L community
will have the opportunity to learn
more about blood pressure,
cholesterol levels, and nutrition dur-
ing a three-day Health Awareness Fes-
tival April 27- 29. The festival is be-
ing held in conjunction with the Amer-
ican Heart Association.

‘The purpose of our festival is to
educate members of the W&L com-
munity—students, faculty, and
staff—about the dangers of heart
disease,’’ said Anne Schroer Lamont,
chair of the university’s health aware-
ness committee. ‘‘We also hope to
have some fun.”’

Schroer Lamont said blood pressure
and cholesterol level testing will be
available in the student center from 8
a.m. to 10 a.m. on Friday, April 29.
The cholesterol and blood pressure
tests will be given for free to the first
100 participants. It is recommended
that those persons taking the
cholesterol test not eat or drink for 12
hours before the test.

In addition to the blood pressure and
cholesterol tests, nutrition information
will be posted in Evans Dining Hall,
the GHQ, and the snack bar. Healthful

meals will be offered in those three lo-
cations for reduced prices at lunch on:
Friday.

The highlight of the festival will be
a jumping rope marathon to raise
money for the American Heart Asso-
ciation. The marathon, which is being
organized by Norm Lord of the physi-
cal education department, is set to be-
gin at 12:30 p.m., April 29, in the
parking lot adjacent to Doremus
Gymnasium.

Teams from all 17 fraternity houses
and other student organizations are
expected to participate. Schroer La-
mont said she is hopeful that at least
one faculty/staff team will participate,
Prizes will be awarded to the indivi-
dual who jumps the longest and to the
team that raises the most money for
the American Heart Association.

The Heart Association will also
award a variety of prizes, from a sta-
dium to a sweatsuit, depending on the
amount of money each jumper raises.
Student and faculty/staff teams can
sign-up Thursday, April 21 at 7 p.m.
in the 500 level classrooms of Dore
mus gym. Each team should have six
members.

For more information about the
Health Awareness Festival, contact
Carol Calkins at 463-8590,
OPINION
Spring

It seems spring may have finally arrived on the W&L campus.
Although one can never tell how Virginia weather will behave dur-
ing April (do any natives remember the April blizzard of 19837),
we may safely assume that the worst of the freezing conditions is
behind us.

 

With that reassurance, we can all begin our ‘‘spring term.’’ That
phrase itself conjures many different images. Faculty members look
ahead to a time of competing with Goshen, sunshine, and spring
breezes to gain students’ attention in classes. The response of some
professors is to move their classes outdoors to take advantage of
two of the three factors named above.

Many students have had their first experience of spring already,
having returned from break bringing tans from the beaches, newly
acquired summer job offers, or stories of free time spent at home.

Still other students are spending the spring term away from cam-
pus, taking advantage of W&L’s many offerings for study abroad or
internships in the U.S. Included among those working in internships
are many journalism majors, creating a dearth of Phi staff members
and writers. (Anybody out there interested in reporting the news or
writing ‘‘My View‘ columns?)

Those of us who remain in Lexington seem to be making plenty
of plans to spend time at Goshen or other nearby resort strips, or
planning a different road trip for each weekend of the term. There’s
the Derby, Georgetown, longer jaunts to Atlanta or New York (for
the lucky few among us who only have classes from Tuesday
through Thursday of each week) and shorter, more regular trips to
neighboring colleges.

The change in weather and the evidence of spring—dogwood
blossoms, frisbees and hackey-sacks on the Colonnade, and open
windows in classrooms and dorms—point up the fact that we have
only six more weeks of school until summer break, or graduation
for the seniors. W&L’s unique 12-12-6 academic calendar allows
for a reorganized structure of learning, and the pleasures of the
spring term.

While students at other schools may finish final exams in the
early part of May, we remain until the beginning of June. Although
we may become impatient knowing that some of our friends from
home are already out of school and working on their summer jobs
or tans while we are still studying, we can console ourselves know-
ing that we will still be lounging on the beaches come the end of
August, while they are slaving inside hot classrooms and dor-
mitories, without benefit of central air conditioning.

At least the temperatures in late May are cooler than those in late
August. We don’t have quite the problems that those other students
have. We can take advantage of the outdoors and of the benefits of
W&L’s spring term, continuing our education at the Washington
and Lee Country Club.

Enjoy your spring!

Editorial policy

As we begin a new term, The Ring-tum Phi would like to reiterate
its editorial policy. All editorials which appear are the opinion of
the newspaper, except those which are immediately followed by the
initials of one of the members of the editorial board. In that case,
the editorial is the opinion of the member whose initials are listed.
The members of the editorial board are Marie Dunne (MED), Da-
vid Emrich (JDE) and Margaret Pimblett (MMP).

All ‘My View‘ and other columns which appear in the Phi are
the opinions of the authors and do not necessarily represent the view
of the newspaper or its editorial board.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes letters from its readers commenting
on the newspaper and the subjects it covers. All letters must be
received by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week it is to be published. Alth-
ough we make all attempts to print every letter received, we must
work within space limitations. We reserve the right to edit letters
for length. In addition, we reserve the right to withhold from pub-
lication any letters that we deem libelous or obscene.

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
COMIN vivvcksincnssssasaginesseisieciHidsesdersasseiisneniieabiabassicasldiieuiinia Marie Dunne
David Emrich
FROWE TIIOE scccccssscsrssvesesccesensucegsanestsesescdecbsedssssascesenncsnacnnsodeondsoes Peter Boatner
BOTS HLEOE oisica se scsicsonsescsscososctotecesesesssscnrsectsiscesenstersesteoovcbontenrers Mike Shady
BOOMS TIGRE osci cece scccesscctvnsetssesssosccehsussensssoonccstecssavessvacss Michael Tuggle
PRI ay TINE... cssciasesnssisesdiitetti erste sitesi Perry Hayes
OPINION PAGE STAFF
Editorial Page Raltor ....cccccscccccccccccvessssssscccsescesesssoscnesesscosesosee Margaret Pimblett
CORRODE vi cais sce csscicisansecsvanseedanscocencevevetsvarsscssavscecesecsasesienssieeeeeeee ER
BUSINESS STAFF
Detalehens MAMRGET ccccsccecccisccncccccsccsccccscccsccsnscesecsonsccccoessecsacehoctouessees Jason Faust
Advertionng MGGKGIT ..1ssssccccesccessccsessssscescesnseseserscsecceooesesscososoeesesss Alan Hinkle
Circulation Manager .cccccsssssecseccccorccccsssssescccessssesscsocesoonconcoooesecoseses Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
| Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
| is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450, This newspaper observes current court

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Peet Peer ee

 

 

   
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1988

Hey Dan,
W had ave

amb thons

  

Fa 4

rT”

a

 
 
 

 

Fraute if IT yet WwW
40 - COM grec vote with

 

 

 

Jackson: where is accountability?

 

MY VIEW
By John Roach

 

This year’s presidential election will
be known as the election in where
many candidates were judged by many
ethical and moral issues such as adul-
tery, plagiarism and one’s in-
volvement in religion. Gary Hart
found that the country could not sto-
mach the lifestyle he led and Joseph
Biden discovered it is not wise to copy
others’ work as well as lie about col-
lege records. The ethical judgments
did not rest just on the candidates of
the Democratic party, but there were
many ethical charges fired at Pat
Robertson over his involvement in re-
ligion as well as some of his activities
while he attended W&L. The one can-
didate who has stayed ‘‘above the
fray’’ as the press and the people have
looked into the backgrounds of the
candidates is the Reverend Jesse Jack-
son.

The Reverend can seem to do and

  

 

say almost anything without being
held accountable. And when one does
try to hold his words and actions
under the same scrutiny with which
we analyze the other candidates, one
is accused of being a racist. George
Will became a racist on the television
show ‘‘This Week With David Brink-
ley’’ for simply questioning some of
Jackson’s statements made in various
speeches. One of the most striking ex-
amples of this came when Jackson
said that SO percent of the federal
budget goes to defense spending and
Will refuted this point, whereupon
Jackson accused Will of being a racist.
One may say this is a very minor point
but it is only the tip of the iceberg.

If all the other candidates’ lives are
going to be studied and questioned,
then Jackson’s past must be analyzed
and reported in the same fashion. The
press hardly ever mentions why the
recent W&L Mock Convention
speaker Andrew Young and Jackson
do not get along. Young accuses Jack-
son of exploiting the murder of Martin
Luther King to his own benefit. Many
who were with Dr. King in Memphis
when he was shot claim that Jackson
took off his shirt and rubbed it in the

WELCOME TO
TERRORIST
TRAINING

   

 
 

blood of Dr. King and then proceeded
to go to talk to the reporters with his
‘*bloody shirt’? on. Only a few ever
mention this highly questionable act.
If Gary Hart and Joe Biden must be
forced out of the campaign for their
misjudgments, then why does the
press not explore the charges some
have directed at Jackson regarding his
extramarital affairs and some highly
questionable discrepancies in Jack-
son’s college activities and records?
The point is not to say Jackson is gui-
Ity of these charges but to ask why his
activities aren’t investigated in the
way the other candidates’ are.

Perhaps the most blatant example of
the kid gloves treatment that the press
gives Jackson is his religious identity.
How many times have we seen the
Reverend Jesse Jackson mix politics in
religion? At least as many times as Pat
Robertson, but Jesse was never ques-
tioned with the same intensity as
Robertson, even though we see Jack-
son almost every week preaching in a
church on Sunday and using the pulpit
as a campaign stump. I am not criticiz-
ing Jackson’s association in religion
but again simply saying that if other
candidates, notably Robertson, are be-

ing attacked for their involvement in
religion, why isn’t Jackson’s role in it
ever questioned?

No one ever questions Jackson on
these fine points probably because
there are not very many people who
enjoy being called racists. And since
almost every time one asks Jackson
tough questions on his personal life he
always underlines his answer with an
accusation of it being a racially biased
question. As one can easily see, we
have a problem here. Jackson has put
his campaign above the scrutiny of the
public by invoking racism at every
turn. The Reverend must realize that it
has nothing to do with racism when
one questions a candidate in the same
fashion that the others are held ac-
countable. How many other candi-
dates have referred to New York City
as Hymietown and how many have as-
sociated with such dubious characters
as’ Fidel Castro and Louis Farrakhan?
Jesse Jackson has now emerged as a
very important and plausible candi-
date for the highest office of our coun-
try. He is no longer a novelty and he
now should answer the tough ques-
tions about his personal life that the
other candidates have been asked.

 

 

 

 

HERE YOU WILL LEARN
THE FEARSOME LOOK, THE
STEELY NERVES, THE

LIGHTNING REFLEXE...

 

 

 

  

 
  
 

w REFLEXES, THE
GREAT COURAGE,

THE HIGH HONOR...

 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“W THE AFTERLIFE...

AND A GUARANTEED SPOT

  
 

TWAT MAY
B | SURPRISE You.

  

i)

 

 

>
ee eee eee eee ee

  
  

ee LE

Fe

cnemmes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
NEWS/OPINION

Presidential Honors

The ROTC Mink Battalion held its first annual President’s Award Banquet in Evans
Dining Hall March 30. The guest of honor, President John Wilson, presented Washing-

Professor Japanese film series offered

from Duke
to speak

From Staff Reports

 

 

Edward B. Fowler, associate
professor of Japanese language and
literature at Duke University, will de-
liver a lecture Wednesday, May 4.
The lecture, ‘‘The Japanese
Novel—An Oxymoron?’’ will be at 8
p.m. in Northen Auditorium and is
open to the public.

The lecture will focus on modern
prose fiction. It will also touch on how
pre-modern literature is clarifying
differences “between Japanese and
western writing.

A specialist in Japanese literature,
Fowler has taught at Duke since earn-
ing his Ph.D, at the University of Ca-
lifornia at Berkeley in 1981. He has
served on the board of directors of the
Association for Teachers of Japanese,
as coordinator for the Triangle East
Asian Colloquium, and as liaison for
the Japan-American Student Confer-
‘ence, 1982-84, at Duke.

The recipient of numerous awards,
Fowler has been named a Fulbright
Scholar for 1989-90. He received a
Social Science Research Council Con-
ference Grant in 1987 and currently
holds a Japan Foundation Professional
Fellowship.

Fowler is currently at work on a
major article on the origins of the
modern Japanese narrative and a
book-length study of Japanese fiction.
He is the author of The Rhetoric of
Confession: Shishosetsu— in Early
Twentieth-century Japanese Fiction
and co-editor of A Hundred Things
Japanese, reprinted under the title,
Discover Japan: Words, Customs,
and Concepts, Vol. 1.

Fowler’s visit is sponsored by
W&L’s East Asian Studies Program.

    
    

 

 

From Staff Reports

 

   

W&L’s East Asian Studies Program
will offer a series of Japanese films
during the spring term. The films will
be shown at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of
the Commerce School on Monday
evenings from April 25 through May
23. Admission is free.

Rashomon, the first offering, will
be shown April 25. Directed by Akira
Kurosawa, this classic film is set at the
crumbling Rashomon Gate in
12th-century Japan, and challenges
traditional truths and morality in its
presentation of one story from four

very different points of view.

The second film, Chushingura,
directed by Hiroshi Inagaki, will be
shown May 2. One of Japan’s most
popular samurai legends, Chushing-
ura is based on an episode that oc-
curred in 1701 when 47 loyal retainers
vowed to avenge the death of their
young provincial lord, Asano.

On May 9, the offering will be The
Mistress, directed by Shiro Toyoda.
Based on Mori Ogai’s novel, Gan
(Wild Geese), The Mistress presents a
story of unfulfilled love, set against a
background of social change. It is re-
garded as one of the best films of the
Meiji Era.

The Makioda Sisters, directed by

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1988

3 W&L students
win Fulbrights
for German studies

 

By Mathew J. Horridge/W&L

ton and Lee’s Outstanding Cadet Award to Cadet Chris Beckert. Several cadets as well
as other students enrolled in the Military Science classes received commended awards.

Kon Ichikawa, will be shown May 16.
Rated the ‘‘Best Film of the Year”’
(1985) by the Los Angeles Times, the
film tells of four daughters of a great
Osaka merchant family who face the
end of a gentle way of life as old
values give way under the advent of
World War II. It is based on Taniza-
ki’s award-winning novel Sasame yuki
(Light Snow).

The last offering will be Snow
Country on May 23. Drawn from the
novel by the Nobel Prize-winning Ya-
sunari Kawabata, the film captures the
freshness of the geisha Komako and
the sadness of a doomed relationship.
It is directed by Shiro Toyoda.

 

Moot Com

 

im

Li

   

petition

pS

By Sally Mann/ W&L

A panel of distinguished judges heard the final arguments of the of Virginia, Deanell R. Tacha, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth

Burks Moot Court Competition. Clockwise from the top are James
C. Turk, Chief Judge, U.S. District Court for the Western District

Interviews by
Marie Dunne

 

 

 

 

Allen Litvak, freshman, ‘‘If the
President gave him permission, that’s
one thing. If he just did it on his own,
then it seems like that’s not very ethi
But, if the President gave him
permission, then he’s just doing his

cal

job.”

Beth Freund, junior. ‘*! think it’s
a bad idea, but it may be necessary in
his job of promoting the President. ”’

 

Circuit, Lewis F. Powell, Jr. Retired Justice of the U.S. Supreme
Court, and Fredric L. Kirgis, Dean of the School of Law.

 

 

 

Tom Harwell, freshman, *‘I think
the President should get in trouble too
if he knows that these quotes a1
made up and he agrees to it

heing

Sean Copeland, sophomore. *‘‘I
think its perfectly fine that he made up
quotes for the President because, at
that age, Reagan is lucky to think up

invthing on his own.’

 

 

From Staff Reports

 

Three W&L students have been
awarded Fulbright Scholarships to
study in Germany for a year.

Kathryn L. Tucker, a senior from
Lexington, Va., will spend the next
academic year studying German lan-
guage and literature at the University
of Bayreuth. Tucker, a German
major, is the daughter of Col. and
Mrs. A.S.J. Tucker, Jr., of Lexing-
ton.

Another senior, Gregory D. Rus-
sell, will be studying at the Technis-
che Hochschule near Frankfurt, a
center for German and mathematics.
A math major, Russell is the son of

Mr. and Mrs. Santord E. Russell of
Pomona, N.Y.

Molly E. Hall, a third-year law stu-
dent at W&L, will be studying in
Hanover where she will do a compar-
ison study on German and American
campaign financing laws. Hall, a gra-
duate of Wesleyan University, is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Kent Hall of
Charleston, W.Va.

The Fulbright grants include a two-
month language course, round-trip
transportation, tuition, and books for
one academic year in a foreign coun-
try. Funded by Congress through the
U.S. Information Agency, the grants
were created to increase mutual
understanding between the people of
the U.S. and the people of other coun-
tries.

Wa&L wins $275,000

 

From Staff Reports

 

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
of New York has awarded W&L
$275,000 to strengthen the univer-
sity’s programs in Russian language
and area studies and the East Asian
Studies program.

‘*We are again indebted to the Mel-
lon Foundation for making possible
the advancement of two other pro-
grams in the curriculum,’’ said John
W. Elrod, vice president for academic
affairs at W&L. ‘*‘Washington and
Lee is very fortunate to have the con-
tinuing support of this foundation in
the enhancement of our academic pro-
grams.”’

According to Elrod, the Mellon
grant will make possible two addi-

McHugh to

tional appointments in Russian and
Japanese language and literature, the
use of native teaching assistants in
Japanese, Chinese, and Russian, the
development of a new Russian Area
Studies Program, and the further
strengthening of the Japanese and
Chinese language instruction in the
East Asian Studies program.

The Mellon Foundation has been a
generous supporter of the academic
programs at W&L. The foundation
has awarded grants in the past that
have enhanced the programs in the
areas of faculty development, the hu-
manities, and cognitive studies.

The Andrew W. Mellon Founda-
tion, created by Ailsa Mellon Bruce
and Paul Mellon, honors their father,
the financier and secretary of the trea-
sury from 1921 to 1932.

deliver

Telford lecture here
on new psychiatry

 

From Staff Reports

 

Paul R. McHugh, M.D., Henry
Phipps Professor of Psychiatry and
chairman of the department of psy-
chiatry and behavioral sciences at The
Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, will deliver a_ lecture
Thursday, April 28.

McHugh will lecture on ‘‘The New
Psychiatry: Its Emergence and Impli-
cations’’ at 8 p.m. in Northen Audi-
torium. The lecture is open to the pub-
lic.

A Psychology Colloquium entitled
‘*Motivational Systems: Their Study
and Applications’’ will be presented
by McHugh Friday, April 29, in
Room 318 of Tucker Hall.

McHugh received his A.B. degree
from Harvard College in 1952 and his
M.D. from Harvard Medical School
in 1956. Following a neurology resi-
dency at Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, McHugh served as a clinical as-
sistant in psychiatry at Maudsley Hos-

Photos by
Hank Mayer

 

What do you think about Larry Speakes fabricating quotes for President Reagan?

 

 

 

pital in London, and as member of the
neuropsychiatry division at Walter
Reed Army Institute of Research. He
also taught at the Cornell University
Medical College before joining the fa-
culty at Johns Hopkins in 1975.

McHughs’s principal area of inter-
est is in brain and body control of eat-
ing. He is the author of five books, the
most recent co-written with P.R.
Slavney, Psychiatric Polarities, pub-
lished in 1987 by The Johns Hopkins
University Press.

In 1987 and 1988, McHugh
received the William C. Menninger
Award from the American College of
Physicians, and The Distinguished
Achievement Award from the New
York Hospital-Cornell Medical
Center, Center Aiumni Council.

McHugh’s visit is sponsored by the
Robert Lee Telford Lecture Series.
The program is designed to bring to
the campus scholars of national repu-
tation, particularly those from the
fields of physical and life sciences,
social sciences, business, and the hu-
manities.

 

 

 

 

Tim Bolling, senior, ‘‘I think that
almost all public relations people have
to do that from time to time. I wasn’t
really upset about it since he’s not
directly involved in the decision mak
ing

Professor Craig McCaughrin.
‘This is a tempest in a teapot. This
happens all the time. What actually
amazes me is that people are reacting
to it as though it were new.”’

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1988

  
     
  

 

Senior pictures

Pat Hinely will be taking senior
pictures for the Calyx for only one
more week. Sign up in the co-op if
you want your picture taken for the
yearbook. If you are submitting
your own photo, please take it to
Carol Calkins in the University
Center or the Calyx office.

Nuclear duel

The Bedford Incident (UK,
1965, dir. James B. Harris, star-
ring Richard Widmark/Sidney Poi-
tier/James MacArthur/Martin Bal-
sam/Wally Cox, based on Mark
Rascovitch’s novel) runs at 7:30
p.m., Wed.-Thur., 4/27-28, 328
Commerce, sponsor: Politics
Dept. Presages Tom Clancy’s The
Hunt for Red October. This taut
duel between the nearly commis-
sioned state-of-the-art U.S. naval
destroyer BEDFORD and a radar-
defying Soviet missile-sub in the
North Atlantic challenges our basic
precepts about strategy, ethics and
politics in a nuclear world.

German joumalists

The W&L Film Society will pre-
sent The Circle of Deceit (West
Germany, 1981) Friday and Satur-
day, April 22 and 23, in Classroom
‘*A”’ of Lewis Hall, the W&L law
school. Admission is free.

Directed by Volker Schlondorff,
the film presents a story of roman-
ce and intrigue in Beirut in the last
1970s. A German journalist cover-

 

 

ing the civil war in Lebanon be-
comes involved with the German
widow of a Lebanese man. In its
engrossing portrayal of journalists
caught up in violent political
change,7he Circle of Deceit has
been compared to The Year of Liv-
ing Dangerously. Schlondorff,
who also directed The Tin Drum
and Death of a Salesman, is con-
sidered one of the world’s finest
directors.

The film stars Bruno Ganz and
Hanna Schygulla and is in German
with English subtitles.

Art farm

Professor and Mrs. I-Hsiung Ju
will present a selection of their
handiwork at their Art Farm Gal-
lery for a month starting Sunday,
May 1. An Open House with re-
freshments will be held that dav
from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. and the pub-
lic is warmly invited.

In addition to the Open House,
workshops will be conducted at the
Art Farm throughout the summer.
Anyone interested in participating
in the June Workshops or learning
more about the July, September
and October schedule should con-
tact the Art Farm for a brochure.

The Gallery gift shop and art sup-
ply stores are open Monday
through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. and Sunday from 2 p.m. to
5 p.m.

The Art Farm is located a quar-
ter mile west on Rt. 39, next door
to the Virginia Horse Center.
Telephone (703) 463- 7961.

 

Summer counselors

The Summer Scholars-’88 pro-
gram at W&L is presently accept-
ing applications for dormitory
counselors for the coming sum-
mer. This year’s program will ex-
tend from June 29 until July 31. In-
terested students should contact
Coach Cinda Rankin in the Physi-
cal Education offices for further in-
formation, 463-8687. All applica-
tions must be completed by May
10.

English club

The English Club would like to
remind students that there will be
an open reading on Monday, April
25 in Payne 21 at 7 p.m. The club
encourages everyone to bring his
or her own work. Short stories are
limited to no more than 10 pages.

Veterans money

Adolph Coors Company will as-
sist more than 100 college students
for the fourth consecutive year
through the Coors Veterans’ Me-
morial Scholarship Fund program
in all 5O states, the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico.

Coors, the nation’s fifth-largest
brewer, will provide $501,000 in
scholarship funds to eligible de-
pendents of honorably discharged
American veterans. Scholarship

General Notes

application forms are now avail-
able through Coors distributors,
veterans service organizations, by
writing Coors Veterans’ Memorial
Scholarship Fund, P.O. Box 3111,
Northbrook, Ill. 60065, or by call-
ing toll- free 1-800-49COORS.
Applications must be postmarked
no later than July 1, 1988.

To be eligible for scholarship
consideration, applicants must:
©Be no older than 22 years of age
as of the July 1, 1988 application
deadline date.
eHave a cumulative grade point
average of 3.0 or better on a 4.0
scale.
*Have completed a minimum full
freshman year program of credit
hours, but not yet acquired senior
credit hours.
*Be enrolled full-time in a four-
year institution of higher education
in the United States or an accre-
dited two-year program leading to
a four-year undergraduate degree.
*Fall into one of the following
categories:
—Dependent of Honorably Dis-
charged American service person-
nel.
—Dependent of Active Duty,
Guard or Reserve military person-
nel (minimum two years).
—Dependent of American service
personnel Killed in Action, Miss-
ing in Action or who have Died in
the Line of Duty.

Swim classes

For the fifth year W&L is offer-
ing area residents swimming les-
sons under the direction of Page
Remillard, Aquatics Director.
Anyone in the community desiring
to participate should be at the pool

  
 

on Saturday, April 30 at 10:00
a.m. for a water evaluation and re-
gistration, Class assignments will
be made at this time.

Two sessions will be conducted
during the month of May: one from
May 2-6 and another one from
May 9-13. Two classes each week-
day will be offered, one at
4:00-4:25 p.m. and the other one at
4:35-5:00 p.m. Courses will be
offered for all levels of swimming
ability and all age groups, exclud-
ing those younger than four years.

Lessons cost fifteen dollars ($15)
a session and if possible we will
offer an instructor-swimmer ratio
of one instructor to five swimmers.
For further information, call
463-8694.

Secure checks

Mock Convention security
checks are still unclaimed in room
104 of the University Center. Al-
len Chisolm, A. Kell, John Hel-
leberg, T. Spurgeon, D. Williams,
Mike Wolfe.

Political forum

On Thursday, April 28th at 4:00 pm
in Lee Chapel there will be a discus-
sion and debate of the current state of
unrest between the Israeli government
and the Palestinians over the West
Bank.

The panelists for this forum will in-
clude Frederic Kirgis, Dean of the
W&L School of Law, Prof. Bruce
Herrick, Chairman of the Economics
Department, Prof. Gregory Stanton of
the W&L Schoo! of Law, and Prof.
Milton Colvin of the W&L Politics
Department.

The format for this and future for-
ums will begin with brief remarks by

each of the panelists followed by ques
tions from the audience. All member: |
of the public are welcome to attend,

 

 

Dr. Paul R. McHugh, M.D.., di- .
rector and psychiatrist-in- chief,
The Johns Hopkins Medical *
School, will present two lectures,
on campus. of

“The New Psychiatry: It's
Emergence and Implications,
will be Thursday, April 28 at #00
p.m., Northen Auditorium. ‘‘Mo- .
tivational Systems: Their Study,
and Applications," will be Friday,
April 29 at 2:00 p.m., Tucker
Hall, Room 318. Dr. McHugh hax
lectured widely in the U.S. and,
Europe. He is a well-known
researcher in the area of eating dis~
orders.

.

Camptown races

The 25th running of the Camp
town Races by Camptown Chari-
ties, Inc. is set for Saturday, May
14, 1988 at scenic Graymont Park
near Ashland, Virginia. Gates
open at 11:00 a.m. with post time
at 2:00 p.m. ‘|

The eight-race event will include |
two quarter-horse races, four |
thoroughbred races and a hunter’s
relay with $15,000 in total purses,
The eighth and final race will be a
mule race, the winner being thé
first rider to snatch the $500 purse
at the finish line.

Those interested in entering hor-
ses for the race should contact
Donna Dennehey, Racing Secre-’
tary, at 804-798-7216. ,

 

 

Salaries

 

( \Continued from page 1

York City. Employers in St. Louis,
Mo., are offering aerospace engineers
an average of $28,776 and electrical
engineers an average of $30,144.
Chemical engineers are receiving an
average salary offer of $31,428 from
employers in Houston, Tex.

are 186 placement offices at 153 col-
leges and universities participating in
the Salary Survey. Additional copies
of the report are available to CPC
members and subscribers for $1.50
each.

 

From Staff Reports

 

Paul D. Rockett, a physicist with

Physicist to speak on laser fusion

Laser Fusion’’ will be the topic of a
physics colloquium, led by Rockett, in
Room 201 of Parmly Hall.

KMS Fusion, Inc., is the premier

S

a product line of soft X-ray detectors) ;

and sources for sale to the commercial

 

and scientific community. ,
Rockett was recently awarded a

National Science Foundation grant for, .

ing explored by CPC this year. Salary College Placement Council (CPC) KM i . wi inc. ampus : - 4 :
data for curricula are being collected — The CPA Salary Survey March re- _ is the national professional euisins nel 1“ aaa ne CO ee ey Se om ha Honey rage | 710
for 20 separate locations across the port covers the period from Septem- representing career planning and lecture and a colloquium on laser fu- volved in fusion research. Rockett — os interferometer and is
United States. Based on data collected ber 1, 1987, to March 7, 1988. The _ placement directors of 1,300 U.S. col- _ sion. joined the company in 1981 as senior the author of numerous publications.
so far, the highest average salary for data include offers extended to stu- leges and universities as well as the : . technical manager of the fusion and _ Rockett holds a B.S. in physigs,) _ *
sccouming _grauates~$27408-is dents graduating been September ration's leading “corporate and, Rokes bls lecure, Lace; plamasdeparinn. He's regonble MS in mcr engineing <p)
ing offer employers in : iti izati : é : é ot. "
a ee ee ee eee will be given at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of strumentation and characterizing University of Michigan. His visit*is} -: +
the Commerce School. At 3 p.m. X-ray sources used for inferring laser- sponsored by the W&L physics de-
Stamberg, a native of New York at Five: Susan Stamberg’s “‘All Things Tuesday afternoon, “Through the driven plasma conditions. His respon- partment and the American Institute of
N OD ie City, received her bachelor’s degree Considered’ Book published in 1982. Looking Glass—An X-Ray View of _ sibilities also include the production of Physics.
from Barnard College. She is a Fellow
of Silliman College, Yale University, _ The Otey Lecture Series is named

and serves on the board of the for Elizabeth Lewis Otey, a pioneer in ' :
PEN/Faulkner Fiction Award Foun- ‘he women’s rights movement from OW O OX ie Or e ‘
(JContinued from page 1 dition. Lynchburg. Otey who died in 1974 at ;

istic. If they say yes, “they provide In 1980 Stamberg received the Ed- > 28° 0f 93, was among the first suf-

#

: eee as fragettes wh i

ammunition’’ to those who criticize ward R. Murrow Award from the oe Scant aarcten cae Lee-J ackson Classic
bead inthe workplace. __ Corporation for Public Broadcasting. jn support of women’s rights aoe

The perception is that different is She is also the recipient of the Ohio iment. 8 S d 8 | 3 0
aturday, Apri

8 e
on Wilson Field

 

 
 

 

bad,’’ said Stamberg, “But it’s not State Awards Golden Anniversary Di-

that we are not worse than men, just rector’s Award. She has been cited b -
different.” At NPR, Stamberg said Ms. magazine as “One of the 4 The Otey Lecture Series was estab-

a ; ° lished at W&L last year by E. Ot

that many stories, such as features on Women to Watch in the 1980s.’ y y 7
the effects of war on children and the Watnon . of Lynchburg, : Otey's
bombings of abortion clinics, would  Stamberg has worked in public daughter. The series is dedicated to
have gone uncovered had she not sug- radio for 21 years. Ten of those years ringing recognized women of

 

 

        
   
   

 

 

gested the stories. are described in her book, Every Night achievement to the W&L campus. Bey
e = s Po
a Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers ATTENTION SENIORS ~
eorge S Hairsty is Gifts for all occasions i.
since 1963 11 W. Nelson St. Graduation, it seems, is only a few minutes away and we'd like to i}
PHONE 703-463-2022 Lexington, Va. 24450 let you know about a few items connected with that event. ‘ :
{
‘

First, your cap and gown. Fortunately for you, the University.
pays for the rental of your academic regalia (last year the amount,
was $5441.65). In order to pick up your cap and gown, come to the
Bookstore sometime between May 25 and Graduation Day... bring”
L s 5 $35. in CASH for a deposit which will be refunded if you return if*

ex Nn gt O Nn q you return the cap and gown to us by 4PM on GRADUATION»
DAY. The $35 is refundable ONLY on June 2, but you are still re- ,
sponsible for returning the cap and gown. The truth is: we don’t ac-
tually want the money, we really want the outfit back. You keep the
tassel. , :
J ump Ropers Needed M a i ket Second, your announcements. These will be for sale at the Book-, ff «

store in packs of 5, starting April 20. Should you want to enclose |

directly behind Leggett’s
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

 

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell

Have Fun & Raise Money for your card with an announcement, we have the best deal in town. For
the American Heart Association only $3.00 you may order a pack of 25 name cards with a choice of 3°
Friday, April 29, 12:30 p.m. type styles! See Debbie in the Bookstore before April 30 for thisy 9 «
Doremus gym parking lot special offer.
for details call 2 Liter H ‘
: ere Are The Dates To Remember:
Coach Lord or —_ gaa Coke cid April 20 e Invitations will be available. Name Cards
co-sponsore e ,
ache Ed aaa Old Milwaukee-6 pk. 12 0z. cans may be ordered.
d IFC Greek Week ily April 30 - Last day to order name cards at the Book-
an
i store. ‘
sign-up Thursday, April 21,7 p.m. White or Pink | May 25-June 2 - Pick up cap and gown and pay $35.00
500 level classroom of Doremus gym NE i iiietitediinic eee deposit. 7
Participants can earn aii June 2 - By 4PM last moment to get $35.00 back for
Ss .
the Fannwing prises ee ome prompt return.
All prizes are cumulative 7
Stadium Cup - $5.00 Bag - $125.00 House of Raeford So, please ya'll, read and heed - you’ ked so hard to get td }
ai aia da coded Sweat Shirt - $175.00 0, please ya'll, read and heed - you've worked so hard to get to +
4 a th ” oo ni ace Turkey Breast sisevcsticemmusiclncns an. this point in your life! . |

 

 

Aero Disc - $55.00 Ear Phone AM/FM Radio - $300.00
Swatch-Like Watch - $85.00

 

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1988

 

Tennis completes
3-2 spring sojourn

 

By Stuart Sheldon
Staff Reporter

 

Like some other Washington and
Lee students, the members of the
men’s varsity tennis team spent their
spring break week in sunny Florida.
However, they were there on a busi-
ness-first basis. The Generals played
five matches in five days as they

aqtraveled around the Sunshine State.

On Monday, April 11, W&L played
against Stetson in Deland, Florida.
This first match of the trip was quickly
controlled by the visiting Generals,
who led 6-0 after singles action.

Junior Bobby Matthews, who won
against VMI the week before last at
the No. | spot, continued to play as
the top W&L netter. The Generals
won all six singles matches in straight
sets.

The story was much the same in
doubles action, where W&L again rol-
led in straight sets in all three mat-
ches, clinching the win against the
Division I Stetson squad 9-0.

On Tuesday the Generals had
moved north, to Orlando, where they
squared off against another D-I oppo-
nent, Central Florida, in inclement
weather.

The Generals again jumped ahead to
lock up the win in singles action, win-
ning five of the six matches in straight
sets. Freshman Bill Meadows, No. 6
for W&L, had his match called early
because of the rainy conditions.

W&L won all three doubles mat-
ches by default, due to the poor
weather conditions. The Generals had
wrapped up yet another D-I victory,
8-0

The General’s roadtripping contin-
ued, this time to Winter Park, where
they faced rival Rollins College, a
team head coach Gary Franke de-
scribed as simply ‘‘outstanding.”’
These teams have played for the past
several years, and the Rollins squad
has always proved difficult for the
Generals.

The Generals got into early trouble
when they were behind 4- 2 after sin-
gles action. W&L’s two points came
from No. 5 senior Chris Wiman (3-6,
6-4, 6-0) and Meadows (1-6, 6-4,
6-2), both of whom rallied to win in
the third set: >

Rollins, who is ranked second in
D-II collegiate polls, also has the top
two doubles pairs in D-II tennis. The
Generals No. | pair of Matthews and

Roanoke

senior David McLeod lost the first set
at the sixth tie-break point [6-7 (6)],
and won the second set 6-4 before fall-
ing in the third 3-6.

The No. 2 W&L pair of Wiman and
sophomore John Morris lost in
straight sets, while the No. 3 tandem
of Meadows and junior Robert Haley
held on until the third set before falter-
ing, 6-4, 4-6, 4-6.

Rollins won the meeting 7-2, a
deceptive score since six of the nine
matches were won or lost in the third
set.

It was then Thursday, so the Gen-
erals must have been in St. Augustine
facing Flagler. Flager, coached by
Peter Scott, is ranked third in the
NAIA. Again the Generals would find
themselves down after singles, this
time 5-1, and plagued by third-set
blues.

Flager clinched the win in the sin-
gles portion by taking two of the three
long and tough decisions. W&L’s
only singles victory came from Mor-
ris, who won in three sets 6-1, 6-7 (4),
6-1.

Although it was too late, the Gen-
erals doubles did well, and Franke
said that he was ‘‘glad to see the dou-
bles [players] back on track.’’

Friday the Generals faced North
Florida, in Jacksonville. Once again
the team found themselves trailing
after singles, but this time the victory
was within reach, as W&L trailed 4-2.

In the crucial doubles action, Matt-
hews and McLeod won in straight
sets, 6-1, 6-4, but Wiman and Morris
could not hold on to pull out the win,
losing 6-2, 4-6, 3-6. At No. 3, Haley
and Meadows also lost, but in straight
sets.

W&L returned to Lexington and
defeated Averett yesterday on its
home court 9-0, raising its record to
12-7.

As May 8—the day of the tennis
coaches’ conference call to determine
the eight bids to the D-III National
Championship—gets closer, the Gen-
eral’s deadline for getting their game
under control also nears.

‘*We must be able to play well as a
team, consistently.’’ said Franke.

The Generals will have that oppor-
tunity to establish some consistency
when the team plays host to the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionships on Friday and Saturday.
W&L has won the conference crown
the last three years.

and H-S

down W&L lax

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

After falling to Hampden-Sydney
Saturday and Roanoke College Tues-
day, the W&L lacrosse Generals will
try to hit the brakes on a five-game
losing skid Saturday when they host
third-ranked Washington College.

The Generals, 2-7 overall and 2-2 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence, have only four games left and
are guaranteed a losing record for the
fourth time in five seasons.

" **We have made some progress, but
we have not demonstrated that pro-
gress in the results of the games,”’
head coach Dennis Daly said Monday.
‘*Sometime down the line, everything
will jell, and we will be the team we
thought we could be.”’

And, in Tuesday’s 12-7 loss at
Roanoke, the Generals did indeed
show some progress, including out-
standing play from freshman goalie
Thomas Costello.

‘‘We kept the score down,’’ Daly
said Wednesday, ‘‘and Tommy was
definitely one reason for that.”’

Daly used four different goalies
against Hampden-Sydney but said he
decided the Maroons would have to
face Costello throughout.

‘*I told him that it was going to be
his won or loss, his sixty minutes,”’
Daly said, whose decision to bet on
the freshman paid off with 19 saves
and only 12 goals.

But a good defensive game was not
enough to keep the Maroons from
their eighth-straight ODAC title. Ad-
mittedly, Tuesday's game wasn’t as

close as the 15-14 overtime thriller
last season, but the game was more

competitive than the five-goal final
margin might indicate.
Although the Generals never led,

they were also never out of it. W&L
was only down 8-7 with eight minutes
left in the third quarter and shut out
the Maroons through most of the
fourth but couldn’t get the scoring

they needed to pull off the win.
‘‘We really didn’t score fast-break,
transition goals,”’

we could have.’’

‘It wasn’t that we weren’t getting
opportunities, and it wasn’t that we
didn’t take shots,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s just

said Daly. ‘‘We
didn’t take advantage of some things

that they didn’t go in.”’

The game started with two Roanoke
goals in five minutes, but W&L junior
midfielder Stuart Geisel scored unas-
sisted to make the score 2-1 with
10:21 left in the first quarter.

Roanoke scored again less than a
minute later, but senior middie Robbie
Stanton answered with an extra-man
goal off a pass from junior attackman
John Ware to make it 3-2 with 7:20
left in the period.

After scoring five goals in less than
eight minutes, both squads played
strong defense through the rest of the
first half. W&L second quarter goals
by Ware and freshman attacker Brian
Overbeck were countered by two
Roanoke scores to give the Maroons a
5-4 halftime lead.

The real scoring began in the third
quarter, with seven goals in as many
minutes. After Roanoke went up by
two, Geisel found the net to make the
score 6-5 with four minutes left in the
third quarter.

The Maroons went up by three with
two goals in the next three minutes.
Stanton and sophomore attacker Chris
Giblin responded again, cutting the
margin to one with 8:13 left in the
period, but those scores were offset by
two Maroon goals late in the quarter.

Even though Roanoke went score-
less through most of the final period,
the Maroons added two insurance
goals late to lock up the victory.

In the 18-14 loss to Hampden-
Sydney Saturday, two W&L midfiel-
ders scored six points to lead the Gen-
erals offensively. Sophomore Chris
Mastrogiovanni recorded five goals
and one assist, and senior Sandy Harr-
ison had four goals and two assists.

The loss left the Generals hoping for
a win Tuesday to force a three-way tie
for the conference title, but the win by
Roanoke gave the Maroons sole pos-
session of the ODAC crown.

Looking ahead to Washington Col-
lege, the Generals will once again be
the underdogs. The Shoremen feature
two former all-Americans and nine re-
turning starters from a team that was
ranked fourth in the nation in Division
III after it reached the national quar-
terfinals.

Washington's leading attackman is
sophomore Tim Hormes, who scored
45 points last season (40 goals, 5 as-
sists). His classmate Mark Cavallaro

 

 

By Skipper T. BertranvIII/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Jean Stroman will be 4 key player for W&L,

Women’s streak at 10

 

From Staff Reports

 

The W&L women’s tennis team
spent a pleasant semester break by
winning all three of its matches and
extending its winning streak to ten.

Coupled with a 8-1 win over Ran-
dolph-Macon yesterday at home, the
Generals will take a 11-1 record into
this weekend's Old Dominion Athletic
championship. Monday’s match
against Hollins was cancelled due to
weather conditions.

The Generals beat Centre on Mon-
day, April 11 in Hilton Head, S.C. in
a contest that was closer than the score
indicates. W&L split the six singles
matches and won all three doubles
matches to earn the victory, but it

didn’t come easy. Six matches went to
three sets and three matches involved
tie-breakers.

W&L then beat Armstrong 9-0 last
Thursday, also at Hilton Head, in a re-
latively easy contest in which the
Generals won every match in straight
Sets.

Finally, W&L beat Emory and
Henry, the defending ODAC cham-
pion, 8-1 Sunday at Emory.

That victory most likely will make
the Generals the favorite in the ODAC
championships on Friday and Satur-
day in Ashland, Va. The W&L squad
will be looking to become the second
women’s team in W&L history to win
a conference championship, with the
women’s swim team being the first
earlier in the year.

 

By Gary McCullough
Staff Reporter

 

While most W&L students were
basking in the sun over spring break,
the General's baseball team was into
some very serious base running. With
three wins over break and another one
yesterday, the team’s record took a
strong lead past the .500 mark to 8-7,
4-6 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference.

The Generals traveled to Eastern

Mennonite yesterday well supplied -

with heavy hitting bats and light balls.
The score pretty much tells the story
as W&L drove in 18 runs while
Eastern Mennonite responded with
only 3. Senior Carter Steuart pitched
for seven innings to receive the win
before sophomore Dave Smith came
in to Mop up.

Head coach Jeff Stickley commen-
ted on the team’s obvious improve-
ment: ‘‘If people make mistakes, we’-
re taking advantage of it.’’ Stickley
also noted that in the next few days the
competition will be more difficult,
but, with the momentum of a four-
game winning streak, he thinks the
team will be up to the challenge.

The streak began on Sunday, April
10 when the team took Mary Wash-
ington apart at the seams by a score of
12-6. The game against Lynchburg
two days later was rained out, but the

| Baseball wins
Jfour straight

Generais were back in acuon on
Thursday in Lexington versus Shen
andoah.

The Generals were down 3-2 in the
bottom of the ninth inning, but Steuart
was able to knock in a tying run which
was then followed up by a game
winning single from first-year law
student Hugh Finkelstein. The final
score was 4-3. Junior Mike Temple
came up with his first win of the
season and junior Eddie Klank contin
ued to be W&L’s leading hitter with
two more doubles.

Emory and Henry came to Smith
Field this past Sunday only to be held
to a mere one run by Steuart, who pit-
ched the entire game. Steuart and Fin-
kelstein each had a pair of hits, and the
Generals came out with a 7-1 victory

The contest against Hampden-
Sydney was postponed on Tuesday
due to snow. That game will be made
up this afternoon at H-S. On Friday,
the team will make up a game against
Lynchburg, and Sunday W&L will
play host to Maryville in a
doubleheader.

The team is looking for a strong fin-
ish, one that could garner a fourth-
place spot in the conference and the
advantage of playing the ODAC first-
round playoff game at home on Wed-
nesday. ‘‘As long as we continue to
hit the ball we shouldn’t have any
problems,”’ said Klank. ‘‘There is no
reason why we shouldn’t win the rest
of the games.”’

Track qualifies two for nationals

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

W&L track athletes Andrew White
and Phil Sampson set school records
and qualified for the Division II
national championships while compet-
ing at the Division II & III State Meet
on April 9 in Hampton.

A senior and three-time Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Runner-
of-the-Year, White placed third in the
110-meter high hurdles with a school-
record time of 14.5 seconds.

Sampson, a sophomore pole vaul-
ter, broke the school record he set last
year and set a new meet record by
clearing 15 feet five inches, four in-
ches better than the qualifiying stan-
dard for nationals.

“LT am very happy for both of

 

 

Junior John Ware looks to pass against Hampden-Sydney on Saturday.

Golf springs back from long layoff

had 8 goals and 23 assists in 1987.

LAX NOTES-—Statistics in the Syd-
ney game were balanced, with the
teams virtually even in ground balls
(W&L 56, H-S 52) and shots (W&L
44, H-S 47).... Harrison won 15 of 26
faceoffs against the Tigers.... W&L
scored on one of three extra-man op-
portunities, while the Tigers were
scoreless on their three power
plays.... Penalties abounded in the
Roanoke game. The Maroons were hit
with flags 11 times for 12:30, includ-
ing an ejection and three-minute uns-
portsmanlike conduct penalty against
junior defender Matt Haught with less
than a minute left. W&L was pena-
lized six times for five minutes.... The
Maroons led W&L in groundballs,
56-49,

 

xy Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

Two weeks ago, W&L head golf
coach Buck Leslie was anxious. His
team had just started to establish some
consistency, and now it was exam
break and the competitive rounds of

golf were difficult to come by. But if

his team plays like it did this past
week, Leslie has no reason for con
cern.

The Generals took third place in an
Old Dominion Athletic
round robin on Tuesday in Clarksvi
lle, Va. W&L had two players break
80 on the par-71 Kinderton Country

Conference

Club course, with senior James
Sowersby the medalist with a 75. He
received support from senior Gary
Campbell's 79, as the Generals posted
a team total of 324. Hampden-Sydney
and Randolph-Macon tied for first
place with team scores of 319.

But it was what W&L did during the
exam and spring-break stretch in
which the squad would not play a
competitive round of golf for 16 days.
The Generals defeated Shenandoah
311-358 last Thursday in Winchester
with four players scoring in the 70s.

‘“T think all of our guys prepared
themselves pretty well after exams,”’
said Leslie, whose team is now 9-3.
‘They played a lot of rounds. It was a

them,”’ said head coach Norris Aldri-
dge. ‘‘They have worked hard, and
it’s nice to see their work habits pay
of.”’

In other competition at the State
Meet, W&L dominated the distance
events. Senior Richard Moore took
first place in the 5000 and second in
the 1500; junior David Thompson fin-
ished second in the 5000 and third in
the 1500; and junior Jamie Urso took
second in the 800.

W&L’s 400-meter relay team of
Andy White, senior John White,
sophomore Wes Boyd and freshman
Erik Adkins placed fourth and set a
new school record of 43.5 seconds.

Looking ahead, the undefeated
Generals will try to repeat as confer-
ence champions at the ODAC title
meet Saturday afternoon at Bridge-
water.

 

2 2 ee
By W. Patrick Hinely/W&l

pleasant surprise to come off break
and have four guys in the 70s.”"

The top score for W&L was shared
by Campbell and junior Tom Wing-
field, both shooting 77s on the Car
pers Valley Golf Course. Following
close behind was senior John Gam
mage with a 78. Senior Kevin Hunt
carded a 79 to bring the team’s total to
2

The Generals now turn their atten
tion to the upcoming ODAC cham
pionships at the Kinderton Country
Club on Monday and Tuesday, Leslie
sees it as a tight race.

‘*T think whoever has a good two
day streak is going to win it,’’ he said
 

=BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1988

 

St. Paul’s highlights Wa&L choral trip

 

By Michael Tuggle

Entertainment Editor

 

A performance in London’s St.
Paul's Cathedral was the highlight of a
choral tour taken by the Washington
and Lee choral ensembles through
England and Wales last week.

Under the direction of Dr. Gordon
Spice and Professor Thomas Forrest
five singing ensembles performed mu-
sic ranging from Palestrina and Ga-
brielli of the Baroque to modern
pieces from English composer John
Rutter. While in Europe, the choruses
sang one and a half hour concerts at
St. Nicholas Church in Hurst, Eng-

land just outside of London, at the
Scala Theatre in Prestatyn, Wales,
and at the Chesterfield Road High
School in Crosby, Merseyside, Eng-
land just outside of Liverpool.

The choruses also performed thirty
minute concerts at St. Paul’s and in
Liverpool at the Roman Catholic cath-
edral known as Paddy’s Wigwam be-
cause of its architectural design.

The five choruses (The men’s Glee
Club, The Women’s Chorus, The
University Chorus, Southern Com-
fort, and the small women’s singing
ensemble yet unnamed) were all rep-
resented by the forty- eight singers
who went on the tour.

While in Hurst, Prestatyn and
Liverpool, the chorus members stayed
with local families from the respective

areas learning a little about what its
like to live in England and Wales,
even if it was only for two days.

While the choruses made a signifi-
cant impact wherever they went, they
made a special one in Hurst and in
Prestatyn. In Hurst, the money for
tickets to the choral concert was do-
nated to a chilaren’s hospital near
Hurst and in Prestatyn, half the money
collected was given by the Prestatyn
Rotary Club to Polio Plus, an interna-
tional Rotary fund-raising program
designed to raise enough funds to in-
noculate all the children of the third-
world.

The choruses spent a great deal of
time singing for the people of England
and Wales, but they also had a great
chance to see some of the wonders of
the two countries as well.

 

5
7k
ie

ree

 

Washington and Lee Choral ensemble performing at St. Paul’s Cathedral in London Monday.

APRIL

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. Calvin and Hobbes, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews, McMeel &
Parker, $5.95.) Cartoons about the life of a little boy.

 

2. The Eyes of the Dragon, by Stephen King. (Signet/NAL, $4.50,)
Enthralling masterpiece of magical, evil and daring adventure.

3. Communion, by Whitley Strieber. (Avon, $4.95.)
Visitors from outer space.

 

4. The Far Side Observer, by Gary Larson. (Andrews, McMeel &
Parker $5.95.) Latest Far Side cartoons.

 

. Necessary Losses, by Judith Viorst. (Fawcett, $4.95.)
How to deal with and accept life's losses.

 

6. Windmills of the Gods, by Sidney Shekdon. (Wamer, $4.95.)
Story of a woman trapped by intemational conspiracy.

7. The Prince of Tides, by Pat Conroy. (Bantam, $4.95.) The beauty
of South Carolina and the dusty glitier of New York City.

 

Ine Crores

8. The Road Less Traveled, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone, $8.95.)
p ical and spiritual inspiration by a sete

9. Billy and the Boingers Bootieg, by Berke Breathed. (Little,
Brown, $7.95.) Latest Bloom County cartoons.

10. Destiny, by Sally Beauman. (Bantam, $4.95.) Romance of a
couple with diverse backgrounds over three decades.

 

ee

 

While on the tour the choruses
visited one of the Royal residences at
Windsor, Conway Castle, the smallest
house in Great Britain and the coastal
city of Lladudno in Wales, the Roman
walled city of Chester and saw the
world’s largest radio telescope at the
Jodrell Bank Planetarium.

In Liverpool, the choruses visited
the Albert Dock maritime complex
with one of the world’s foremost mari-
time museums, the largest Anglican
cathedral in the world, and received a
Beatle’s tour from a woman who was
Paul McCartney's fan club secretary
at the height of the Beatle’s success
from 1960 to 1965.

In all, the choral trip to England and
Wales, the second in six years, was a
resounding success both for the chor-
uses and for Washington and Lee.

Photo by Ann Spice

 

New & Recommended

A personal seiecion of Tom McKenna, Northeastem Univ. Stores, Boston.

Watchers, by Dean R. Koontz. (Berkley, $4.95.) Explosive story of a
man and woman caught in a relentless storm of mankind's darkest

creation - two genetically altered life forms.

Guardians of the West, by David Eddings. (Ballantine, $4.95.) .
A magnificent fantasy of men, Kings, Sorcerers, and Gods caught up

in the war between two opposing destinies.

Rocket Man, by Roger Clemens with Peter Gammons.
(Penguin, $3.95.) The story of how Clemens won his place in
basketball history and a rare glimpse into the undisguised mind and

heart of the modem athiete.

ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS/NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES

REVIEW-OF-THE-MONTH

Watchers, by Dean R. Koontz. (Berkley, $4.95.)

“Watchers is so well crafted that it is nearly everything

one could wish for in a modern suspense novel...
unrelentingly suspenseful. First-class entertainment.”

 

 

 

(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world

 

 

 

Calendar

Friday, April 22
Drop/add ends at 4:30 p.m.
9 a.m.—MEN’S TENNIS: ODAC Conference tournament. Varsity
courts.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: The Circle of Deceit (WEst Germany,
1981). Classroom ‘‘A,’* Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WOMEN’S TENNIS: ODAC Tourna-
ment, Randolph- Macon, Ashland; WOMEN’S LACROSSE: Sweet
Briar.

Saturday, April 23
7:30 a.m.—BIRDWALK: Led by Peter Bergstrom, W&L biology de-
partment. Meet at north end of Woods Creek parking lot (near W&L
law school) and bring binoculars. Public invited.
9 a.m.—MEN’S TENNIS: ODAC Conference tournament. Varsity
courts.
2 p.m.—LACROSSE: Generals vs. Washington College. Wilson Field.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: The Circle of Deceit (West Germany, 1981).
Classroom ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S LACROSSE: Guilford;
TRACK: ODAC Championship.

Sunday, April 24
3 p.m.—FAIR CONCERT: The FAIR Puppetry Company Young Peo-
ple’s Concert. Lexington High School.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASEBALL: Maryville at Emory &
Henry.

Monday, April 25
8 p.m.—JAPANESE FILM FESTIVAL: Rashomon, directed by Akira
Kurosawa. Room 327, Commerce School.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: GOLF: ODAC Championships,
Clarksville, Va.; MEN’S TENNIS: University of Virginia at The
Homestead.

Tuesday, April 26
Law classes end.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: GOLF: ODAC Championships,
Clarksville, Va.; WOMEN’S LACROSSE: Virginia Tech.

Wednesday, April 27
Law School reading days begin.
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: The Bedford Incident. Room 327,
Commerce School.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: LACROSSE: Franklin and Marshall;
‘BAEBALL: ODAC Tournament (t.b.a)

Thursday, Arpil 28
3:30 p.m.—COMPUTER SCIENCE COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘The Matrix
Envelope of a Semigroup,’’ Rebecca S. Crittendem, V.P.I. Room 6,
Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 21. Public invited.
5 p.m.—CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘‘Department Fry.’’ Room 401,
Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: The Bedford Incident. Room 327,
Commerce School.
8 p.m.—TELFORD LECTURE: ‘‘The New Psychiatry: It’s Emer-
gence and Implications,’’ Paul R. McHugh, M.D., Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity. Northen Auditirum, University Library. Public invited.

Friday, April 29
12 Noon—JUMP ROPE FOR HEART: Parking lot in front of Doremus
Gymnasium. Money-raiser for American Heart Association. For infor-
mation, call Carol Calkins at 463-8590.
2 p.m.—PSYCHOLOGY COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Motivational Systems:
Their Study and Applications,’’ Paul R. McHugh, M.D., Johns Hop-
kins University. Room 318, Tucker Hall.

Saturday, April 30
7:30 a.m.—BIRDWALK: Led by Peter Bergstrom, W&L biology de-
partment. Meet at north end of Woods Creek parking lot (near W&L
law school) and bring binoculars. Public invited.
10 a.m.—Registration for W&L swimming lessons. Twombly Pool,
Warner Center. Classes for all ages will run two sessions, May 2- 6 and
May 9-13. $15 per session. For information, call Page Remillard, W&L
aquatics director, 463-8694.
3 p.m.—LACROSSE: Generals vs. VMI. Wilson Field.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASEBALL: ODAC finals; MEN’S

 

   

eZ Cleveland Plain Dealer TENNIS: Emory; TRACK: James Madison Invitational.
CRUISE as CLES
NOW HIRI
Summer & Career Opportunities College Student Wanted sera ives Went Valley True Value Hardwa re

 

to serve on the 1988 Summer Staff at Blue Ridge As-

travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, sat
sembly, a Christian Conference Center located near

etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext. to work 5-15 hours per week on

   
        

  

1 seb bememmenenmmeneene! this campus. Good income, no Black ae a — a poinyg rte
OTAR selling involved. Apply now for students needed for a wide variety of work duties. RE
SERVIn) « a job next fall! Write to: All Write: Summer Employment Director, Blue Ridge HARDWARE STORES
23S. Main Lowrance, Collegiate Market- : “¢ :
Leste, Ya. sete iin " ae . Assembly, 84 Blue Ridge Circle, Black Mountain, NC Hardware, Paint & Related Items
Lexington Hardware Mooresville, NC 28115. E. Nelson Street Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
463-2242 463-2186 Sun. 1-5

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

CD Specialities

 

      
      

Luin-Brunis

Full Menu Inciuding Lobster Tails,

 

 

 

 

Unique Musical Selections for the : : Lamb, Veal, Italian And
ee omens Stop by and see our Spring aplechan | Cajun Dishes

Madras Belts
Harpel Shirts
Sero Shirts

Duck Head Shorts
Cotton Sweaters

Jams
White Buck Shoes

Classic
Special mail order service available.
New CDs from $7.99-$13.99. We buy

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

 

and sell used CDs. 1 MiiSt

 
 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Roanoke/Salem Plaza Since 1963 Staunten, Va Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close
Roanoke, Va (703) 366-7084 Student Charge Master Card 885-3409 Reservations suggested
PTT TTT :
Learn To Knit

Wendell's
Barber Shop

 

Merle Norman Cosmetics
M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

Sign up now for knitting classes
to be offered

 

. : a 463-1782 during Spring Term.

Rt. IL North 1), price Cosmetic Sale a
ities Instruction in Cross-Stitch
Tanning fl I need your head and Needlepoint also available.
Svisits $29. .

Manicures 10 visits $49.00 Ultra Pointe with Overlay | for my business!  aacentee Call 463-1006

, . 11 East Washington Street

20 visits $89.00 Open 9-6 Leungun- Vigna 24450 Cotton and Other Summer Yarns

 

Now Available

Ist Visit Free
MITTEE

 

 

 

 

 

 

sips eahn ARTES SUR ECR AIEID Om NNN eG A EE Sk RR tom RR AR OR INE Sy Rp me ge Sg ES SS ES ee RA TTD NR BR TLE AE ETI
