 

November

 
 

 

 

t

.? 36720
R562
Vy 67
nb.g
VOLUME 87, NUMBER 8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Ghe Ring-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

NOVEMBER 5, 1987

‘ Mailroom problems prompt consideration of campus post office

a

.

-*

 

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

“But the slip says to come pick up
the packages between 10:00 and 12:00
or 1:00 and 2:45, and it’s only 2:30!”

That complaint is heard often by
the wuniversity’s librarians from
angry students who have come to
pick up goodies and care packages
sent by family and friends via the
United Parcel Service.

The university mailroom is located
on the first level of the library. Many
students did not even realize that the
university has a mailroom since the
only service for students that the
mail room workers perform is handl-
ing UPS packages.

This one service has evoked many
complaints from those students who

 

use the mail room.

Students want to know why the
hours are so short and why the two
mail room employees, Charles Con-
nors and David Weeks, are some-
times not there during the hours that
the mail room is supposed to be open.

“T had not heard those com-
plaints,” said their boss, William N.
Mohler, the Director of the Universi-
ty Services, ‘I guess it hasn’t trickl-
ed down to the proper person. Now
that I have heard it, though, I will do
something about it.”’

The reason that the mail room is
probably closed is that the employees
“catch odd jobs,’’ according to
Mohler. ‘If the chairman of the
English Department calls up and
says, ‘I have to pick someone up from
the airport,’ then the mail room
employees are called.”’

 
 

Mohler continued, “I have student
drivers that I rely on, but you can’t
always rely on students because they
have class schedules and those come
first.”’

Connors, who is the Mail Room
Supervisor and who has worked at
W&L for 19 years, explained that
“‘sometimes other duties call us both
away, but most of the time we’re both
here,”’

He said, those duties include pick-
ing up mail that goes to W&L from
the Lexington post office and deliver-
ing it to the individual buildings, and
then picking up the mail from those
buildings and handling the students’
UPS packages.

Students have also complained that
the mail room is not open on Satur-
days. The mail room is open, it’s just
not open to students because UPS

a,

does not deliver on Saturdays, said
Conners.

In order to solve the problem,
Mohler said, ‘‘We are considering a
central receiving facility. If we in
fact accomplish that, the mail room
and the receiving center could be
consolidated and that would justify a
third person.”

The central receiving center would
accept items purchased by the
separate departments, such as equip-
ment for the Physical Education
Department. However, even if a
receiving center is not formed, a
third mail room worker is still being
considered.

Another reform for the mail room
being considered is to provide an on-
campus post office and post office
boxes. Assistant to the President,
Frank Parsons, said, ‘‘It’s still very
much on the table for study. We

might benefit from making the
University Center more of a place for
students to hang out.”

However, according to Parsons,
“It is not an easy problem.”’ There
are many questions to answer. What
kind of a service will the University
provide? Will it be only for intracam-
pus mail or will it be for all student
mail? “If any significant number of
students wanted to have their mail
sent to their fraternity houses, apart-
ments, or houses off campus, then
then that would not make [an on
campus post office] worthwhile,”
says Parsons.

Sophomore Gaines residents Kris
Amoroso agrees that ‘it would be
nice to have a post office on campus.
It would be a lot more convenient
because we have to be on campus
anyway.”

“It’s not that bad walking to the

post office,” admits freshman Keiko
Harada, ‘‘but it would be better if we
could just get our mail on campus.”

One problem that impedes the pro-
gress of a post office if it should prove
to be worthwhile is the lack of space
in the co-op, supply store, and book
store. The administration is con-
sidering reconstructing and enlarg-
ing the co-op. Says Parsons, “to ex-
pand that space we would have to
relocate the co-op, supply store, and
book store [to the University Center]
and that would preclude a post of-
fice.”

Parsons said he will be meeting in
the coming week with the Post
Master to discuss the campus post of-
fice and will be investigating the
possibilities over the next few mon-
ths. So an on campus post office is
still a possibility that will help to im-
prove the mail service for students.

,
Freshman woman is

the ‘King of the Hill’

 

By Heidi Read
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi
President Wilson looks over a quiz in Professor Dymacek’s calculus class.
Meanwhile, Carol Howsen decides which academic department will receive $1,000.

“She showed a lot of poise, said
Betty Brewbaker, the W&L presi-
dent’s secretary, of Carol Howsen,
winner of Sigma Nu’s “King of the
Hill’ contest.

With TV cameras and newspape1
reporters surrounding her all day,
“she did a very good job of ignoring
them,” added Frank Parsons, assis-
tant to the president.

Just what did Howsen do as Presi-
dent of W&L for a day? The Monday
schedule left her with barely enough
time to catch her breath.

Howsen’s day started with an 8:30
office orientation and ended about 5
p.m. after a faculty meeting. Though
most of the day was spent in the
president's office itself, there was
constantly something that needed to
be attended to or someone that she
had to see.

Monday was ‘“‘dean day.”’

During lunch in the dining hall,
Howsen and all the deans met and
discussed the past week and general-
ly anything that ought to be brought
to the President’s attention. All
agreed that Parents’ Weekend was
successful, but Howsen suggested
more activities should be planned for
students whose parents aren’t able to
attend.

‘Maybe there should be receptions
for the parents after dinner so they
aren’t left alone when we want to go
out with our friends,”’ she said.

“Tt was fun, but he has a tight

schedule,” said Howsen of the presi-
dent’s daily routine.

Her initial impression of the presi-
dent was that of a figurehead who
“sat around all day.”

Rather embarrassed at the admit-
tance, she added, ‘The president is
very involved in everything about the
university. He knows what's going
on.”’

For example, Howsen said that one -

of the topics of discussion was foot-
ball player Rowan Taylor and how he
would be transported back to W&L.

Taylor broke his leg in the Sewanee
football game last week and was ina
Tennessee hospital for five days.
Howsen expressed surprise that par-
ticular students came to the attention
of the administration.

“The president likes to be in
touch,”’ said Frank Parsons.

While Howsen battled the cameras
and proposals set before her in
Washington Hall, student Wilson was
attending an 8 o'clock French class.
“T had Latin in high school, Spanish
in college and I know Anglo-Saxon,
but I’m not a student of French,” he
said.

Next was Calculus.

“We discussed some new problems
in the book, but I sat in the back and
kept quiet,” Wilson said. “Using a
wine flask to discuss volume, one stu-
dent asked if you used the same for-
mula as with a beer can,” Wilson
laughed.

Raquetball gave Wilson his exer-
cise for the day.

Although he does not play regular-
ly, he held up very well, considering

Junior begins alcohol awareness program in response to

 

By Robert MacPherson
Staff Reporter

 

Prompted by an alcohol-related in-
cident which put an incoming fresh-
man in a coma, a W&L under-
graduate will give a series of lectures
intended to inform fraternity pledges
of the harmful effects of drinking.

W&L junior Ian Thompson, a
member of the Delta Tau Delta social
fraternity, will give the lectures
which he said have. become
necessary because of recent ir-
responsible drinking, mostly by

 

By Hunter Catlett
Staff Reporter

 

Have you ever wondered how
loud a 747 would sound if it took off
within 400 feet of you? Could you
imagine what a high powered rifle
fired next to your ear would sound
like?

The answers to these questions
could be found at Twombly pool
Sunday during the Washington
and Lee—Arkansas/Little Rock
water polo game to decide the
Southern League Championship.
The crowd recorded an incredible,
ear-splitting mark of 118 decibels
during W&L’s 10-9 triumph.

The raucous, packed house
showed up not only to watch the
Generals, but to try and eclipse
the decibel mark set by the Min-
nesota Twins fans during the
World Series. True, the Min-
neapolis Metrodome is far larger

 

Earl Cole, an incoming W&L
freshman, went into a coma after he
was involved in an alcohol-related
automobile accident. Cole had at-
tended a summer rush party spon-
sored by Delta Tau Delta the night of
the accident,

According to Thompson, many
alcohol-related incidents may be
avoided if the drinker used better
judgment. Thompson hopes his
speech, the theme of which he said is
“drinking in moderation,” will teach
freshmen to drink responsibly.

“This is something that needs to be
done. I think that I have a lot to teach
[the pledges],’’ he said.

than Twombly pool, but the Twins
had 55,000-plus screaming fans,
while W&L had about 300.

The large crowd helped add ex-
citement to an already tense
matchup. Junior Moose Herring
said, “The crowd was extremely
loud. Their support meant a whole
lot to us. The crowd created the
excitement we needed in the
game.”

The noise of the crowd began to
swell with the arrival of the
Poloheads a few minutes before
gametime. The Poloheads were a
group of five freshmen who
painted their faces blue and white
and wore cut up polo balls on their
heads. They sat on the deck across
from the stands with the Gen-
eral’s reserve players and began
to cheer wildly

The intesity of the noise level
brought about some interesting
developments:

¢ Twice the Generals gave up
easy goals because only half the

Thompson mentioned the Virginia
DUI laws and the true effects of
alcohol, particularly grain alcohol,
on an individual as two topics about
which many students are not very
knowledgeable. He said his lecture
will deal with these topics “‘in light of
our situation here at W&L.”’

Thompson said a main focus of his
speech will be drinking and driving
and what fraternity members,
pledges as well as brothers, can do to
look out for each other. He said that if
an individual knows that he will be
drinking, he should give his keys toa
non-drinker. He also offered the idea
of written contracts between frater-

&L Polo fans set new noise record

team heard the call to switch
defenses.

¢ The officials had to ask
members of the crowd to stop
banging chairs against the pool
deck because the players could
not hear the whistle.

¢ The officials had to leave the
pool area to discuss a controver-
sial penalty shot.

These little incidents did
nothing to deter the players en-
thusiasm for the vocal crowd.
Junior David Dietz said, ‘‘They
{the crowd] were unbelievably
loud. The crowd was tremen-
dous.”’

Freshman Tomas Perez added,
‘I’ve never heard a crowd louder,
in any sport.”’ =

Remillard said, **The fans weir
the big winners. They came and
packed the house and because of
the atmosphere they created, the
enthusiasm just kept accel-
erating. The fans made the game
anevent.”’

nity brothers which state that when
drunk, the signee will not drive.

“If you’re in a fraternity and it’s
really a brotherhood, you should
want to help each other out,’’ Thomp-
son said.

“The pledges owe it to themselves
to take care of each other.”’

In speaking to this year’s freshman
class, Thompson hopes to avoid
possible alcohol-related mistakes in
the future. He thinks the house-
hopping method of Rush at W&L,
where rushees are encouraged to
visit several different fraternities in
one night, is conducive to alcohol
abuse. He hopes his speech will make

 

this year’s freshmen more aware of
the problem and, in turn, teach them
how to treat next year’s freshmen.

Thompson said that aside from in-
forming the freshmen, he hopes the
lectures will shed a better light on his
fraternity.

“T want to show the community
that Deltas are responsible,”’ he said.

He said the lecture was his idea
and, after visiting the Buena Vista
Alcohol Safety Awareness Program
and the Buena Vista Alchohol and
Drug Services for information, he
presented his idea to the school’s In-
terfraternity Council.

“I was playing against a 20-year-
old,” he said. But, he added amusing-
ly, ‘I was tired!’’ An insight into the
trials of a student's day, perhaps?

Meanwhile, back in the president's
office, Howsen expressed her ex-
haustion as well. The day was begin-
ning to take its toll on the freshman
from Gulf Springs, Pa., as she had
one half-hour to decide which of 20
academic departments. would get
$1000. The English and Math depart-
ments were Howsen’s choices. She
based her decision on which would
benefit the most students at the
university.

Howsen said the administration
was very cooperative. ‘They really
took it seriously and were very in-
terested in what I thought. They
wanted to hear what I had to say,”

If a problem came to her attention
through one of the deans, she gave it
careful thought. Her most repeated
recommendation was ‘‘ask the
students what they think.”’

Howsen expressed the need for
more communication directly be-
tween students and the administra-
tion and more university-sponsored
activities to promote class unity.

She said, ‘They [the administra-
tion] really want to know what we
think, but they have a hard time get-
ting in touch with us.”’

It’s not an easy job, Howsen con-
cluded.

“T would not want to be the presi-
dent at this point,’’ though she said
she would do it again. ‘‘I just bought
a ticket—No. 1,’ she laughed, “‘I
didn’t know what it was all about.”’

accident

Leroy C. “Buddy’’ Atkins, the
Dean of Fraternity Affairs, said that
Thompson’s lecture ‘‘sounds like a
good program.”’ He especially liked
the idea of a student-to-student

speech.

“T think [the speech] will be a lot
more effective coming from a stu-
dent than from an old-timer like
me,”’ Atkins said.

Thompson agreed with Atkins.

“Coming from a peer as opposed to
a superior, things will be taken more
seriously,’ he said

See Lectures, page 4

 

 

Game action from Twombly pools

File Photo

 

:
OPINION
Deferred

Arecent petition advocating a winter Rush for the fraterni-
ty system received support from over 100 faculty members.
Although we are sure that those who signed the petition have
good intentions, we want to point out some of the dangers of a
winter Rush.

The fraternities will be hurt financially immediately. For
the entire first term they will have no income from freshmen
pledges. This problem would hit the smaller houses excep-
tionally hard. With fewer members at the outset they may
not have enough money to function.

The financial problem would be multiplied by forcing the
fraternities to conduct an informal Rush for at least 12 weeks
before the formal winter Rush started. In an effort to let
freshmen know the houses are socially active, fraternities
will be inclined to throw more parties throughout the fall
term. Therefore, a university sponsored winter Rush not only
hurts the fraternity system financially, it forces the system
into more of a “‘party animal’’ atmosphere.

Do freshmen really want to be subjected to 12 weeks of
fraternity men hounding them to join a particular house
when winter comes along? Freshmen will constantly be ask-
ed by fraternities to join them for dinners, road trips, movies,
anything to get them with fraternity members.

Some may say that the answer to that is having no-contact
rules stretching over the entire term. That would not only be
worthless, it would deprive freshmen of the chance to
become friends with upperclassmen. Remember, one of the
best aspects of college is the opportunity to grow by meeting
new people. To forbid the freshmen from socializing with cer-
tain people is unfair to both them and the fraternities.

A winter Rush would also force the fraternities to function
primarily with three classes instead of four. Since most
fraternities now do not initiate pledges until winter term, a
winter Rush would delay initiation until spring term at the
earliest. This keeps freshmen from actively participating in
many house functions which would keep them from learning
how the house is run. As a result, it would be harder for the
house to cultivate its own leaders in the future.

If freshmen live without fraternities, many will decide that
there is no need for them to join any social organization. With
the construction of Gaines residence hall it is obvious that the
fraternities are no longer necessary for student housing. The
traditional openess of the fraternity system to independents
will also encourage more freshmen not to pledge a house.

It may strike some people as a brazen ‘‘fraternities are just
a business” point-of-view to denounce the fact winter Rush
will lower the number of freshmen willing to join fraternities.
However, it is actually a point of survival for many frater-
nities, particularly the smaller houses.

The fraternity system does need work to make itself better,
but forming a Rush calender that discourages men from join-
ing houses does not help the system. It will in fact hurt the
system by possibly causing the demise of one or more houses.

The administration has pledged its support of a strong
fraternity system at W&L. However, it will not be showing its
support if a winter Rush is begun. There are many other
ways that the two-week Rush at the beginning of the fall term
can be modified so that students are able to concentrate on
classes, and the fraternity system is able to function at a high
level.

The Interfraternity Council should first clean up the no-
contact rules. Rush sign-up turned into a fiasco this year
because fraternities were not supposed to contact freshmen
before the freshmen decided what houses they were going to
rush. Making freshmen blindly sign up for open house dates
is just plain silly. A number of large universities with over
twenty fraternities require rushees to go through every
house. W&L has only 17 fraternities; the IFC should be able
to design a similar plan.

The IFC also needs to work on the punishments houses
receive for Rush violations. Giving houses fines and social
probation does not do anything to stop the problem, especial-
ly this part year when most houses had budgeted for a four-
week Rush and had money left over.

On the first violation a house should receive a fine of $1,000.
This way each house is cushioned in case one over-zealous
brother violates a Rush rule. However, on the second offense
a fraternity should immediately be limited in the number of
pledges it can have for the coming year. On a third offense,
the fraternity should lose its pledge class and Rush privileges
for the rest of the year.

This punishment system would make dirty Rush unfeasible
for the fraternities if it were properly enforced. Since the
members of the IFC agree to follow the rules set forth, one
would think it would be a matter of honor that the rules be
followed at a school with such a respected Honor System. The
fraternities should not be afraid of the punishments; if they
follow the rules, they will have nothing to fear.

We would like to invite members of the faculty and ad-
ministration to write to The Ring-tum Phi and express their
opinions on a deferred rush. Only through open debate can
the best solution for rush problems be found.

 

—WSB, JDE

ten i
Che Ring-tum Phi

 

NEW STAFF
COGIIIID cco ccccccccibescbiecscsseeecbaswsecessrcecesecesscscicecess MREMDEIEDD
David Emrich
PTI sche b cee sete c yeh sii rccdecctevertarebededcavecseceaues Peter Boatner
Ore a Chris Munsey
Sports Editer .......... Pea ceveensrescdeceetdessssvedesccesccscciccs:s MRO MEEED
Entertainment Editor .................. Pe PeV Ls CeOUa das Condes chet Michael Tuggle
Wy TON a 0 sen 0s a isc voiced ccscsiscnciens Perry Hayes
| Copy BAO. «sc ccdsccdcesececdspcssetecsiscsesiscccecccsseuceetes Katherine Graci
EDITORIAL PAGE STAFF
Editorial Page Editer .............. SUF UcER EGR ES heewiseiacivisdineesss Sean Bugg
re eer rere Corre ce cee re ere Stephen Ingram
BUSINESS STAFF
PY TE ee Rhona Hughes
[a eee i oe Jason Faust
Advertising MaMaGQer. ...ccsccerccsscnecccccceccscoeescevcescsecs Christie Champlin
Chremlation Manager ..... 0c ccscccsecceceenerececeeseeseereneseeeneees Eddie Klank

The Ring-4um Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tam Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1987

What did She mean
GI0s supposecl to coll F

 

 

 

 

What presents will the lottery bring?

 

MY VIEW
By Margaret Pimblett

 

Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa
Claus, but his name is not St. Nick.

Instead, his name is The Lottery,
and in Tuesday’s election, Virginia
voters approved a state-wide ref-
erendum to initiate a state-run lot-
tery.

So now that the lottery has been ap-
proved by the public, how will it all
be administered? Well, a brand-new
state agency will have to be in-
stituted, so although the lottery will
technically begin on Dec. 1, it won't
actually start operations for several
months. You'll have to wait awhile to
begin purchasing tickets and hoping
for that chance to become a multi-
millionaire overnight.

I haven't decided yet whether or
not I'll play the lottery. As a resident
of Newport News, in southeastern

Virginia, I’ve never played the
Maryland or Washington D.C. lot-
teries. Unlike the voters of Northern
Virginia, I haven’t personally seen
the Virginia money which is spent on
out-of-state lotteries. Those voters
must have really wanted to keep the
Virginians’ dollars in Virginia's
hands; the voters in the eighth and
tenth Congressional districts, in Nor-
thern Virginia, voted for the lottery,
38,051 votes to 23,779.

The lottery’s main bastions of sup-
port were the more populated areas
of the state. The third district, which
encompasses Richmond, Henrico
County and part of Chesterfield
County, affirmed the lottery, 69,115 to
38,821. Norfolk and Virginia Beach in
the fourth district voted overwhelm-
ingly in favor of the lottery; the vote
there was 74,306 in favor to 47,810
against.

On the other hand, the fifth, sixth
and ninth districts were the only ones
out of the ten Virginia districts to op-
pose the lottery in the tally. Those

three districts include the far
southwestern counties, the Shenan-
doah Valley from Augusta County
south, and the Southside and Pied-
mont regions south of Fluvanna
County to the North Carolina line.

A portion of the sixth district result
came from Jocal voter turnout. In
Rockbridge County, Lexington and
Buena Vista combined, voters oppos-
ed the lottery referendum 3,893 to
3,548.

Geographically, the fifth, sixth and
ninth districts account for nearly half
of Virginia’s land mass. But the
centers of population are east and
north of those districts, so the three
compatriots found themselves out-
voted.

That’s how many analysts had
predicted the race would develop.
The areas with the higher popula-
tions would favor the lottery so that
residents would not have to endure
higher taxes within their localities,
or see Virginia funds bleeding over
into neighboring states.

The rural districts were expected
to oppose the lottery from both a
moral and fiscal standpoint. As Gov.
Gerald Baliles had said shortly
before Election Day, there are more
dependable methods of increasing
revenue than the lottery.

Baliles was also concerned about
how the revenue generated by the lot-
tery will be allocated. Many lottery
supporters had suggested that funds
be given for improving education,
care of the elderly and clean-up of the
Chesapeake Bay. But the lottery
referendum did not specify what pro-
grams the money will benefit.

Neither did the referendum explain
what format the lottery will adopt.

Despite the margin of victory for
the state-wide lottery referendum,
with so many questions still to be
answered about the administration of
the gaming system, I wonder
whether the lottery Santa Claus may
leave a lump of coal in Virginia’s
stocking, instead of the lump of gold
which many voters seem to expect.

Upset mother ruins freshman’s weekend

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

Parents’ weekend is portrayed as a
time for relaxed reunions and
nostalgic memories but there is
another, usually avoided side of
Parents’ Weekend, a darker side
which rarely allows ‘a student to go
the whole weekend without rearing
its ugly head. At this moment many
of you are still probably trying to
forget the painful memories of a
DISILLUSIONED MOTHER. But
alleviating the pain is not that simple
because it started in your youth.

When you were a child your mother
cleaned up your room but in your
adolescence she rebelled. Your room
gradually became dirtier, messier
and less organized while you ignored
all pleas to have it cleaned up. Even-
tually your mother became angry
and the anger manifested itself in the
form of, ‘‘all right, all right don’t
clean up your room. See if I care!”’

You answered by promptly moving
things around to give your room the
appearance of cleanliness. This
satisfied mom decided you were a
real gentleman or lady and deserved
to attend a respectable institution
like Washington and Lee. She also
made the mistake of assuming that
you really wanted to live in a clean
environment when, in truth, you only
did it to make her happy and simul-
taneously to get her off your back.
Everything went fine until Parents’
Weekend.

The second she saw your dorm
room her blood pressure increased
and she started to sweat as her worst
nightmare came to life—the realiza-
tion that you are a slob. Your father,
-on the other hand, who always knew
you for the slob you are, finds the
whole situation very humorous and

cracks bad jokes for three days ad-
ding insult to your mother’s injury.

My parents first went to my dorm
room while I was at class and when I
returned only my father was there,
laughing so uncontrollably that he
could not even tell me where my
mother went.

Later I learned that she had con-
tacted the appropriate goverment of-
ficials in order to have my birth an-
nuled. Thankfully, these officials told
her it was impossible, leaving her the
simple option of cleaning it up her-
self.

To the Editors:

worth the heat and humidity.

grams.

very much.

 

The fans are what make an athletic event, or a
chorus recital for that matter, exciting and
rewarding, especially for the players and per-
formers. The fans are even more important at a
Division III school like ours. Not only do they
make the games more exciting, but their sports-
manship also increases the prestige of our pro-

We are excited by the support shown by the
fans of W&L sports, and we hope that their spirit
will continue. Surely the fans realize that they
not only reward the players with their presence,
but also themselves. And for those of you who
missed the polo game, check the Cable Nine
listing during the next couple of weeks, as it will
be aired at least once. Once again, thank you

Naturally, I was asked to help but
it soon became obvious that I lacked
the ability since I had learned from
youth only how to move things
around. My dad tried to help but
could not stop laughing.

Since cleaning up my room took
two and a half days, I only had a few
hours to spend with my parents and
most of this time was spent listening
to my Dad say things like:

“No wonder you've been having
trouble sleeping, you can’t find your
bed.” (Ha Ha!)

“Cleaning up your room wasn’t so

LETTERS

Coach thanks fans for water polo support

The W&L Varsity Water Polo Team would like
to thank all of the students, faculty, parents, and
area residents that attended our Southern
League Championship Tournament this past
weekend. Over 450 fans filled the Cy Twombly
pool area on Sunday afternoon to watch us take
on the Division I University of Arkansas at Little
Rock, and we hope that our 10-9 victory was

Page Remillard
W&L Aquatics

Thanks,

To the editors:

As chairman of the Voting Regulations Board,
1 would like to thank everyone involved for mak-
ing this year’s freshmen elections such a suc-
cess. Because of everyone's efforts, over 80 per-
cent of the class voted in each of the two elec-
tions, well above my expectations and a vast im-
provement over past years when generally about
65 percent of those qualified would turn out.

The many volunteers did a fine job manning
the ballot boxes, and the members of the VRB
(all ‘‘rookies’”’) did commendable work in ad-
ministering the elections and procuring accurate
results. I would also like to thank each candidate
for his or her part in seeing the that freshmen-
voted, and the entire class of 1991 should be com-
plimented for their interest and enthusiasm.

Each facet was invaluable in attaining this
year’s results. Thanks again and keep it up.

bad once we got a shotgun to kill the
large rodents.”’ (Ha Ha Ha! !)

“Once we found the floor and the
closet it didn’t take us long at all.”
(Ha Ha Ha Ha Ha...!)

The way my mother stared at me
you'd think I had suddenly turned in-
to a zucchini or some other vege-
table.

I realize most of you are wondering
what the point of this article is (if in
fact there is one) so I will tell you.
Next year go home for Parents’
Weekend where your room is clean.

election workers

Sincerely,
William G, Londrey
Chairman, VRB

 

 

RON Ft
7

LLL LLM ALE GR OOM LENS DS

— aioe ©

a - - -

a

-

ee

-

- ~ » = ° -

«Nt A IEE, OPEL SOY REI RD 2 OOD >
NEWS

 

The 2ing-tum Phi, November 5, 1987

DS. SEIS,

Looking for next year’s summer job?
Apply for a professional internship

 

 

clude positions in the Presidential

where participants would have to

 

 

 

   

 

 

- . t i
By Francis Coryell Advance Office and the Judicial In- Pegister for at least one cours wee
Staff Reporier ternship Program at the Supreme Another interesting possibility is =
Court. the internship at the Sta Cot i use the
For students tired of textbooks and Those interested in ethics and Job- ‘ee tional Center. Students interestec ( Ss nd
interested in some real work ex- bying legislation may seek anintern- in Sociology, criminal justice or s ecia
perience, both the politics and jour- ship with the public interest group  $9cial work may wish to app! re is ne
nalism departments here offer a, aad = : som,
variety of serious internships. Common ause, An interest group Although many internships do not ua
: z concerned with the budget, the pay, other benefits might be offered : i
The programs new availablerange Center on Budget and Policy An internship in the office of the ! nt shou
from working at the 1988 A me Priorities, also has internships. mayor of Baltimore, for instance, of ) j i : Jonald in
National Convention in Atlanta to a= : fers=assistance “in locating paid ' epartt
helping out at the Staunton Correc- ee the biggest suppliers of in. pied hah tee M 16} ait
: > ps is the Democratic Conven- employment and free adrnittance 2 4
tional Center. tion. The Convention pays about $750 conventions, theater and symphony '" eee
The internships are open to to its interns, who will be provided performances. Also inc juded sre free oe egion (0
students who have completed at least housing at Georgia Tech in Atlanta. Orioles’ games. 9 a i
one introductory politics course and The pay for convention interns is Prof. William Connelly in the hor ye
have at least a 5.0 GPA. ; comparatively good. Only about one- _ politics department is the contact fo1
For students who are interested in third of the positions listed at the _ these internships. ' sat nte Ss
working in Washington, D.C., there politics department offer any money. The journalism department also vy ir h e who
are many opportunities available, in- Foreign internships are available uns internships, though most of wk for television stations usually x
cluding internships with senators and with the British and Irish parli- these are specifically geared toward get ihe chance to appear on the air

congressmen.
Other internships in Washington in-

aments. This program is offered
through the University of Rochester,

journalism majors.
Interns can work in magazines

er tere ir oT ners get to write
eporlers i M Spane iO WIrtté

Peace Corps rep to explain volunteerism

 

experience in a specific field. Titus believes that volunteers who ) consider the Peace Corps as a
By Cheryl Bowles “Every applicant’s motivation is have successful Peace Corps ex 1ere resun } ( ibad
Stafi Reporter different,’ Titus said, and the periences “become socially con- e is

 

On Thursday, Nov. 12, Peace Corps

motivation seems to be personal as
well as altruistic. Titus also said that

scious. They see no need for the
ostentatious wealth of America.”

  

 

 

 

  

 

representative Robert Titus will be his own Peace Corps experience However, they ‘don’t go around car 1tand motivatic
visiting W&L. taught him that his life is not the rying banners. They don't becom« Titus himself had a very positive =

Titus will conduct an information most important thing inthe world. Of — revolutionaries,’ says Titus. experience in Peace Corps _- = By Mathew Horridge/ Phe Ring-tam Phi
session from 7:00 until 9:00 p.m. in — his village’s experience he said, ‘‘I Former Peace Corps volunteers volunteer work. He was able to teach :
Room 101 of the University Centeron brought them to realize that they get jobs all across the work spec-  Englisa in his village and he is in er coat
the 12th, and placement interviews were not the center of the world.” trum, from business jobs fo addi- presently compili clleetion of
will be held on the 13th. “The Peace Corps is like a mir- tional Third World development — short stories which describe his time

r,’’ Titus claims, ‘“‘a mirror that work. nthe village of Kagon suildings and Grounds workers add another coat of paint to Ole George.

Titus is a VMI graduate, and after
three vears as an officer in the army
he decided that ‘‘the army wasn’t
for me and 1 wasn't for the army.”

He had by that time determined

never lies.”’

He believes that a volunteer who
approaches his overseas experience
with the proper focus will see himself
in clearly defined terms, yet will also

Wintergreen event to benefit Special Olympics

 

 

 

that it would take four things tomake _ be able to transcend himself andsee =" eluding the most pledges collected Rockbridge Special Olympics par- athletes, andimproving.’
him happy: the opportunities to the world in broader terms. By Nancy Whalen and the most ski runs down the ticipants for their housing, food, and —_—As it is now, there are about 13:
travel, to learn, to gain experience Titus thinks that 75 to 85 percent of Staff Reporter slopes. any other costs incurred during the participating athletes in this area
which he could write about and to aji volunteers are able to “‘see Wintergreen has added tothe event event. All Special olympics athletics and the Special Olympics organiza
teach. transcendence in the mirror.” A The Special Olympics Ski Fest. a — by offering reduced housing rates to are fully sponsored. tion is run by volunteers who absort
After Titus saw a picture of Volunteer whose focus is not the pig sie pang Y ha ali Ski Fest participants. “It's a Ski Fest is a major state-wide fund- any administrative costs themselves
another officer who had been a Peace Peace Corps will fail to see beyond as been sche ene oleae La ae tunity t ohave a good time raising activity. However, participa- College students and loca
himself in the mirror and will either Wintergreen, according to Camille ¢h, something back fo so- tion in the Rockbridge area has not residents must register with Ski Fes

Corps volunteer in Africa, he know
that the Peace Corps was for him. In
fact, Titus spent an additional year in
the African village of Kagonye after

become irresponsible or leave his
village. .
A volunteer’s withdrawal hurts the

Miller, the event's coordinator fo
the Rockbridge area.

Miller said participants will

val said Miller, is to

 

raise $505

heen successful. Miller said there is a
possibility of discontinuing the Ski
Fest in this area if it is not successful

and collect a minimum of $50 i
pledges to participate in the all-day
event. There are a limited number o

Pali : : ’ ‘bili ive all-day lift tickets, lunch and ‘The money raised by the Ski Fest _ this year. spaces, and anyone interested shoulc
fulfilling the required two years of ruiter, the Peace Corps’ credibili- Tece!ve all-ca; Kets, | a ‘ : =< ee : ces, 2
trainin sii tee inhis ios oe theU.S eae rental equipment free of charge. will benefit both the events and the This is Miller’s first year heading register as soon as possible. There i:
: » se ee =. : Prizes will be awarded, including a a s of the Special Olympics. — the Ski Fest for this area. She hopes a $10 registration fee which is pay

Titus said that the Peace Corps But we're irrelevant,” Titus in- Grand Prize of a ski vacation for two, of thal money will gotothe state to help increase not only the par- able by check, but the check will no

 

 

looks for motivation, commitment, sists, because when a volunteer which was donated by corporate — for | So lal Clympics’ state-wide ex- — ticipation in the Ski Fest, but alsothe be cashed until the day of the Sk
and a sense of humor in students who withdraws he is hurting the village. friends of Special Olympies. penses number of competing athletes in this | Fest. Anyone interested in register

, are interested in vofurtteering. The Titus adds, “Theit(the village's) on- : ae vill include antorms and — area and the number ‘of. sponsors for Meng or. wanting!" more informatipi
Peace Corps wants people with either ly sin was' to say yes” to the Peace The prizes will be awarded in administrative costs. The other half thoseathletes. Ohould call Mifler at 463-9528 after
auniversity degree or significant life Corps’ offer of a volunte#t - several different ‘categories, in- wifi py ae onsoring She said, ‘We're committed to the p.m.

  
   

Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

 

 

 

TALKBACK

Photos by
Perry Hayes

 

If you could change one thing about W&L, what would it be?

 

 

 

 

 

eR Ts, cil

 

 

 

 

 

 

Craig Love — Junior “Longer Ginger Gay — Freshman “8 o'clock Tommy Alexander — “Get more iiz smith wit taltet Ross Darling — Senior “Make it a Eleanor Nelson — Junior ‘Make it .
2 d : : ‘ ; — : i : +3

Christmas vacation I’m from classes.” money.”’ native hesides gum 1n the Co-op single sex school again. single sex school again

Alaska.”

 

 

 

Hamric & Sherida in Jewelers

Gifis for all occasions

    
 
 
 
 
    
   

SYCAMORE FARM
SELLS

PIZZA CREPES

 

PHONE 703-463-2022 \ eutnaten Ah

0006000066004. 0000000eoe. &

HARDWARE stores ©

SOD BoP VY een PORTO

 

 

You better watch out and
Hardware, Paint & Related Items You better not shout EGGS BENNY
: plist Street Mon.-Sat. ee You better get you! fligh and
Before they run ow HOT BEEFERS
HELP WANTED and |
a m ITALIAN SCRAMBLE

College grads -- stock broker trainee:
Sales oriented individual willing to work hard to
build clientele of investors. Send resume to:

$2.99
AWESOME!

P.O. Box 29461
Richmond, Va. 23229

]
j
7
7
J
]
>
>
7
7
f
»
7
]
]
,
J
,
4
>
]
i
,
»
'
]

 

 

4
4
{
{
4
4
4
‘
.
4
{
4
4
8
{
4
{
4
i
§
4
4
4
{
{
4
4

oi
on
wo
~~
*
PPD ig POOPSVSCSCOOS-SE2-] & OOOGOD

 

 

$0000 e 24046000024 Ah Yh

 

+
>
e

 

te ae enn a . ee eee 9 ee eee
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1987

Pierce mms eR enna eme nn ncemmenmamiE:

General Notes

 

Celluloid Sisters

The Russian Film Series next
presents Anton Chekhov's Three
Sisters (USSR/1964—-dir. Samson
Samsonov) on Fri., 11/6, 7:30
p.m., Northen Auditorium; in
Russian with English subtitles,
sponsored by W&L’s German
Dept. Three Sisters is presented at
this time in conjunction with the
University’s Theater’s stage pro-
duction.

War

The Politics Filmfest presents
Paths of Glory (USA/1957/dir.
Stanley Kubrick/prod. & star Kirk
Douglas) tonight at 7 p.m., 327
Commerce. Although both author
(Humphrey Cobb) and film are
banned in France, Switzerland,
and (until very recently) U.S.
military bases, this is only in-
cidentally an anti-war film.
Critically praised for the acting
(Kirk Douglas’s best film role
ever), special effects (‘‘the most
authentic war film I’ve seen” —
Winston Churchill), cinema-
tography (‘incredible tracking
shots’’ says one reviewer) and
Kubrick's direction.

Peace

A Peace Corps information ses-
sion will be held Thursday,
November 12, 1987 from 7:00-9:00
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. All interested students are
invited to come.

Foreign affairs

David Hagigh ’83 will be on
campus on Friday, November 13
in room 103 of the University
Center to share career informa-
tion about foreign affairs with any
interested students. A_ sign-up
sheet is available in the Career
Development and Placement of-
fice.

Windy city —

The W&L Concert Guild will
present The Chicago Symphony
Winds on Sunday, November 8,
1987 at 8:00 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The Chicago Symphony Winds,
founded by Ray Still, principal

 

oboe of the Chicago Symphony Or
chestra, has in a few years been
recognized as an outstanding
chamber ensemble. The players
are all members of the Chicago
Symphony, and three are prin
cipals of their sections. The wind
music of Mozart is their special
province.

Single admission to the concert
is $5 for adults, $3 for senior
citizens (over 65) and non-W&L
students. Faculty and staff of
W&L are admitted free.

Popular beat

“The Beat Behind the Boss”
Max Weinberg, the drummer for
Bruce Springsteen and the E
Street Band, will speak at Lee
Chapel on Thursday, November 5
at 8:00 p.m.

Confetti pictures

Confetti night pictures are here!
Come by the Arlington Women’s
Center and order your pictures.
Office hours are Mon., Wed., and
Thurs., 4-6 p.m.; Tues., 11 a.m.-
1:00 p.m.; and Sunday, 7-9 p.m.

Foreign study

Any student participating in the
1988 Spring Term Abroad Pro-
gram should contact their pro-
gram director about pertinent
dates concerning financial aid.

Law expo ’87

There will be a pre-law forum
on Monday, Nov. 9 from 1:00-5:00
p.m. in the University Center.
From 1:00-4:00 p.m. Law School
Admissions Directors from ap-
proximately 35 law schools will
talk with interested students
about their schools. From
4:00-5:00 p.m. there will be two
presentations in Room 114; ‘“‘How
to Choose a Law School’’ and
‘*How to Get into Law School.”’

Whiz kids

The University Scholars pro-
gram is now accepting applica-
tions from members of the fresh-
man class. To apply, simply write
a short letter to the program's

Director, explaining why you
want to become a_ University

Scholar, and also have two
Washington and Lee faculty
members send letters of recom-
mendation oi your behalf. The

deadline for applications is Satur-
day, December 5 and decisions
will be announced in early
January.

If you have any questions about
the program, please contact any
current University Scholar to see
the Director, Professor W. Lad
Sessions, Department of Phi
losophy, Newcomb Hall

Christmas plans

Trident will have a_ general
meeting Nov. 9 at 7 p.m. in the
Arlington Women’s Center to
discuss Thanksgiving Community
Service, Christmas Social,
Christmas Activity Ideas and Con-
fetti Pictures. Everyone is
welcome. Please come by

Orientation plans

The Freshman Orientation
Committee will meet on Sunday,
Nov. 8 at 6:30 in Room 114 in the
University Center. Bring your
ideas to begin planning the calen-
dar for The Freshman Week ’88.
Members and interested persons
attend!

Working woman

Tonight at 7 p.m., Linda Grist
Cunningham, executive director
of the Trenton, N.J., Times will
hold a public discussion in the Arl-
ington Center. The topic will be
career decisions. A reception will
be held afterwards.

Working man

“Investment Banking and the
Role of a Two-Year Analyst’ by
Rob Tolleson '87, Morgan Stanley
& Co., Inc., Thursday, November
12, 1987, 4:00-5:00 p.m., Com-
merce School, Room 327. All
students and faculty are invited.

Mr. Tolleson will also speak to
Professor Goldsten’s Investments
class on Thursday, November 12,
10:00-11:30 a.m. in room 121 of the
Commerce School. Visitors are
welcomed.

 

 

better lives.

The men and women of the Peace Corps.
volunteers who help people in developing countries live

 

For 25 Years, we’ve been
exporting America’s
most valuable resource.

Dedicated

It's tough. And it takes more than just concern. It takes
motivation. Commitment.

But for 25 years, being a Peace Corps volunteer has
been a chance to stop dreaming about a better world
and start doing something about it.

Peace Corps

The Touaghe

Join the growing number of

Peace Corps Volunteers who have
made a difference in the world!

Inform yourself on Thursday,

November 412th at the University Center,
Room 101 from 7 pm to 9 pm.

 

 

 

 

Lectures

Continued from Page I

He said he had not thought about
freshmen who have not pledged a
fraternity but he thinks it is a good

 

idea that they learn about alcohol
abuse. He chose to speak solely to
fraternity pledges because he thinks
that they are more susceptible to
alcohol abuse

‘‘A big part of the social aspect at
W2&l, is drinking and most drinking

EES TO ORME A AAO LTE CN RT TA ASEAN

goes on at fraternities,’’ Thompsor
said,

Thompson said that he would like
to see his lectures become a perma
nent program to be done every year.

“I’ve learned alot myself,’’ he said.

Chicken disappears at frat party

 

a
By Robert MacPherson
Staff Reporter

 

If the SPCA gets what it wants,
barnyard animals will be banned
from all fraternity parties at W&L

Ellen Arthur, a member of the
SPCA Board of Directors and legal
counsel to the organization, said that
she will ask the Interfraternity Coun-
cil to pass a law prohibiting barnyard
animals at fraternity parties

Arthur’s plans came on the heels of
a party at the Pi Kappa Alpha social
fraternity where, according to PiKA
Social Chairman Chris Cunningham,
chickens were present.

Allegations involving mistreat-
ment of the chickens at the party and
the disappearance of one of the
chickens prompted Arthur to make
her request.

According to Arthur, an SPCA
humane investigator received two
reports of animal abuse at the PiKA
party on the Monday immediately
following the party.

Arthur said that a Sweet Briar Col-
lege student who had been at the par-
ty said that she saw two chickens tied
together and thrown around. The
other report, Arthur said, came from
a high school senior from Harrison-
burg who was considering attending
WA&L next fall.

‘He told me that he was thoroughly
turned off by W&L because of what
he saw at the party,”’ she said.

Steve Roth, a W&L senior and vice-
president of PiKA, said that the frat-
crnity had rented four chickens from
an area farmer for use in the ‘“Ja-
maican Room”’ of an ‘‘Around the
World” party. He said chickens had

been used at previous ‘‘Around the
World” parties without any pro-
blems.

Arthur said that according to the
farmer, only three of the four
chickens were returned.

Roth said that he was not responsi-
ble for returning the chickens and,
consequently, did not know how
many had been returned. He did say
that the fraternity will not use
chickens at future parties.

“T think [an IFC ban on animals at
parties ]is a good idea,”’ he said.

Arthur said that the SPCA will not
press criminal charges even though '
she said the fraternity broke the law. ,

“It is a violation of a city ordinance
to have barnyard animals within the :
city limits. We could bring criminal
charges against them but we're not '
going to,’’ she said.

Wilson amuses W&L parents

 

By Ann Stewart
Staff Reporter

 

President John D. Wilson made his
annual address to parents Saturday
in Lee Chapel prior to the football
game.

Opening remarks were made by
Dean Lewis John, who was a student
here when Parent’s Weekend
became a tradition in 1955

The speech was Wilson’s fourth to

parents since taking office in
January 1983.
Wilson’s speech was largely

directed towards the parents of the
freshman class and was humorous in
tone.

The parents were told the average
mid-term grades, 2.51, were the
highest since 1973. Before then, the
average was not recorded.

The president referred to the con-
struction problems with Gaines Hall
as ‘Wilson’s Folly.’’ The completion
date has now been moved to Christ-
mas.

He also announced that, although

the university had lost money in the
recent Wall Street plunge, W&L is
financially stable.

He mentioned the increased reten-
tion rate of students, bringing in forty
students more than the ceiling of
1,500. This should be corrected by
next year, he said.

On the positive side, Wilson seem-
ed enthusiastic about the raffle
Sigma Nu held for his job.

Wilson announced that he would
give the winner $1,000 out of the
Presidential Discretionary Fund to
spend on academic aid for the
University. He asked each in-
dividual department to submit a re-
quest for the money so the student
would experience the difficulty of a
college president’s having to say
“No.”

Wilson informed the parents of his
plans to strengthen the school, nam-
ing the project for a new theater, the
new computer center in the Com-
merce School and recent grants sub-

mitted for advancement in the '
sciences and a possible Russia--
Asian studies major.

To close his speech, Wilson cited
US News and World Report’s poll of
college presidents which ranked
W&L in the top 25 national liberal
arts colleges.

Wilson also issued a plea for the
parents’ younger children to consider
W&L.

The parents of freshman Lynette
Goodman enjoyed hearing the presi-
dent speak. David Goodman liked
“hearing about the present activities
and the future of the university.”
Barbara Goodman found ‘‘the presi-
dent’s attitude toward the students
comforting.’’

Pete Reynolds of Philadelphia,
father of sophomore’ Becky
Reynolds, thought the content of the
speech was pretty much the same as
last year, but felt Wilson’s delivery
was not quite as good.

Katherine Reynolds appreciated
Wilson’s concern with strengthening
the performing arts at W&L.

FRANK'S PIZZA

After 10 years in business
We are proud to announce

SUPER SPECIAL
Half-Price On
All Pizzas

For The Month of November

Offer good during dinner hours
Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 3 p.m.-1] pm.
Fri.-Sat. 3 p.m.-12 p.m.

Call 463-7575

Also Try Our Lunch Specials
And Famous Frank's Calzones
Mon.-Fri. 11 a.m.-3 p.m.

Thank you for your continued support

-SORRY, NO DELIVERY AVAILABLE -

 

“

i,

iw

49 RMN MM Le SEN IN
vu ow “ wl

PMI CR Bi ce

~ pn se om - - at - - -~ o~ ~ - ~ ~ at

Sih WET MPEG CALAIS ELSI OO

  

ASIN aA sth eae

 

‘Tana eal, Ma La it gy

he
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1987

 

Water polo wins league tourney

 

By Hunter Catlett
_ staff Reporter

 

The W&L water polo team won the
Southern League championship Sun-
day before a Twombly pool crowd,
. estimated at over 300 people, which
made so much noise that it put the
Minnesota Twins’ fans to shame.

The 19th-ranked Generals, 23-4 on
the season, beat the University of
. Arkansas/Little Rock Trojans 10-9 as
junior David Dietz pumped in six
goals and the crowd noise reached
118 decibels. The Metrodome crowd
in Minneapolis only hit an estimated
115 decibels during the World Series.
. The final was also the rubber

match between the two teams this
_ year. Arkansas won round one of the
.. Southern League tournament 13-11,

while W&L won round two 12-9.

_. The game started out as a defen-
sive war as neither team was able to
score in the first five-and-a-half
' minutes of play. Arkansas broke the
scoring drought by connecting with
just 1:12 left in the period. Fifteen
seconds later Dietz scored on a
beautiful backhand shot to knot the
game at 1-1. That’s the way the
period ended as the Generals held
Arkansas to just three shots.

Period number two was a wild and
_ wooly affair. Junior Matthew Brady
started the scoring with a goal just
:50 seconds into the stanza. Dietz
_ made it 3-1 Generals with 5:32 re-
. maining by connecting from the left

point. The Trojans bounced back
behind Martin Nilsson who scored
with 4:55 remaining to bring Arkan-
sas to within 3-2. Thirty-three

seconds later junior Thomas Rawls
made the first of his many great
saves to maintain W&L’s advantage.
With 3:54 left, Dietz scored on his sec-
ond backhand goal to give W&L a 4-2
lead. The Generals were then unable
to convert on three shots on goal
despite having a man advantage, and
were in turn scored upon just scant
moments after the teams were at
even strength. Dietz then crunched
the back of the goal for his fourth
score, despite having a man hanging
all over him, to give W&L a 5-3 edge
with 1:39 remaining. Rawls made
another brilliant save with just :01
left and it appeared as if the Generals
would have a two-goal margin at the
half. That was not the case as the
Generals got careless on the in-
bounds play and let Nilsson score,
bringing the Trojans to within one,
5-4.

Senior Simon Perez started the
Generals scoring in the third, giving
the Generals a 6-4 lead with 5:05 to go
in the period. The Trojans then found
Nilsson all alone again and he scored
to cut the deficit to one, 6-5. Dietz
followed by finding the mark from
the corner to give W&L a 7-5 lead
with just over 3:30 to play. Martin’s
older brother, Ulf Nilsson, got in the
scoring act with a backhand shot to
bring Arkansas to within 7-6. Junior
David Reavy scored with a man ad-
vantage and the Generals lead was
again two with just over two minutes
to play. After Reavy’s goal, Rawls
made yet another save on a break-
away to keep W&L’s lead to two, 8-6.
The two teams traded goals within a
:20 span and the third period ended
with W&L up 9-7.

Football drops 4th

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The W&L football Generals record-
ed their fourth loss in as many games
Saturday, falling this time to the
Bridgewater College Eagles, 21-7,
but head coach Gary Fallon said he
was pleased with his team’s effort
and is optimistic about this
weekend’s game against Ursinus.

“When you come out of a defeat,
the first thing you look-at in the films
is the effort and the intensity, and we

had both;said Fallon.

In fact, if not for a few dropped
balls and overthrown passes, W&L
could very easily have pulled out a
win before the Parents’ Weekend
crowd of over 4,000.

The Generals scored their first and
only touchdown of the game with 5:42
remaining in the first quarter on a 19-
yard carry by freshman Car] Gilbert.
His classmate, kicker Carter Quayle,
added the extra point to give W&L a
7-0 lead.

But, from then on, the scoring was
all Bridgewater. After an Eagle punt,
the Generals drove to the BC 36,
where senior spilt end John Roe drop-
ped a fourth-down pass from soph-
omore quarterback Phil Sampson
that would have given the Generals a
first down, The Eagles took over and
drove 64 yards in six plays, scoring
on a nine-yard run by sophomore
tailback Anthony Lawrence. Lex-
ington’s own Jake Darrell added the

Roanoke is

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

 

It wasn’t quite a blowout this time
around. Let’s just call it a landslide.

The W&L men’s cross country
team dominated its opposition once
again, defeating Eastern Mennonite
and Hampden-Sydney by wide
margins on the General’s home
course on Saturday. W&L raised its
record to 7-2, scoring a mere 18 points
to E-M’s 56 and H-S’s 61.

The meet may be a preview of the
future as the Generals travel to
Bridgewater this Saturday to com-
pete in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships. Both
E-M and H-S are members of the

extra point to tie the score at seven.

In the third quarter, the Generals
received the opening kickoff and
drove 24 yards to their own 45, where
a bad snap on fourth down gave the
Eagles the football at the W&L 31.
Bridgewater scored 10 plays later on
a Lawrence carry up the middle from
14 yards out. Darrell’s extra point
gave the Eagles the lead, 14-7, a lead
they would never relinquish.

After a Sampson interception and
an exchange of punts, Lawrence dove
into the end zone from two yards out.
The Bridgewater tailback fumbled as
he broke the plane, but Bagle guard
Bryan Moser recovered for the final
touchdown of the afternoon. Darrell’s
kick made the score 21-7 with 12:46
remaining in the fourth quarter.

The Generals had three oppor-
tunities to rally in the fourth quarter,
but those drives ended on two Skeen
punts and a Sampson interception.
The Bridgewater defensive line had
caused problems for W&L through-
out the game, especially in the se-
cond half, repeatedly pressuring
Sampson and forcing him to either be
sacked or throw away the football.

‘Anytime a team has the lead, they
can really take off,’’ said Fallon. ‘‘I
don’t think our kids were tired as
much as they were expecting the
pass and coming after us.”’

The loss left the Generals at 2-5,
with a 1-4 record in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. Bridgewater is
now 3-5, witha 1-3 ODAC record.

Things started slowly for the
Generals as they failed to score on
two different occasions with a man
advantage in the first two minutes of
the fourth period. Nilsson scored the
last of his team-high four goals to pull
the Trojans to within 9-8 with just
over four minutes remaining. Less
than a minute later, junior Martin
Burlingame stole the ball from the
Arkansas goalie and found Dietz for
his, and the team’s, final goal mak-
ing it 10-8 Generals with 3:35 left.
Fourteen seconds later it appeared
as if Rawls had just made a phe-
nomenal save of an Arkansas penalty
shot—only to have the officials leave
the pool area for a conference and
come back to award the goal to the
Trojans making the score 10-9.

At the 42-second mark, Burlingame
missed a lob shot to give Arkansas a
last chance for a tie. The situation
began to look grim when, with :27
left, Dietz was ejected. With one sec-
ond left Arkansas began an inbounds
play and appeared to tie the game,
but, the officials ruled that the time
had expired before the shot was
taken. The game, and the Southern
League championship, belonged to
the Generals.

While discussing the low scoring
first and fourth periods head coach,
and Southern League Coach-of-the-
Year, Paige Remillard said, ‘‘In the
first period everyone was getting ad-
justed and there were a lot of turn-
overs. The teams settled down in the
second and third periods only to have
fatigue set in during the fourth.
That’s where we returned to the
fundamentals.”

Rawls simply sparkled in the

 

 

 

 

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

The water polo team scores again in its win over Arkansas/Little Rock on Sun-

day.

Arkansas game as well as in the tour-
nament. His superb goalie play drew
heavy praise from his teammates.
Junior Moose Herring said, ‘Rawls
just played an incredible game.”
“Arkansas is a great outside shooting
team and Rawls just shut them
down,” added Dietz.

 

Hugh Finkelstein (17) tries to snatch the ball away from a

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Bridgewater defender. The pass was intercepted.

favored in ODAC championships

ODAC.

“It was pretty easy,’’ said head
coach Dick Miller on Saturday’s vic-
tories, ‘in the sense that neither one
of those teams was very strong right
now. I was a little surprised. I
thought Hampden-Sydney would do
better than they did.’

The Generals were once again led
by senior co-captain Scott Rippeon,
who won the race in a time of 28:12
over the 8-kilometer course and
junior Bill Clark (2nd, 28:28), who
was not far behind. The Generals
then closed out the meet when the
Gang of Three, seniors Richard
Moore and Rick Norris and freshman
Larry Pilkey, all finished within 21
seconds of one another and grabbed
the 4th through 6th places.

 

gAllah
PARTY

Saturday, Noy. 1444
Gpm- Lam
Smith Bamuet Hall

 

= 2
a

   

IN Gdvance or

$5.00 (at the daor) mekes

all present eligible to
“WIN”
a “

A 4+- DAY ~ EXPENSE PAID

CRUISE FoR TWO TO

THE BAHAMAS!

WINNER WiLL BE CHOSEN AT THE

MINER... WINNER HAS QHOICE
OF CRUISE DATE AFTER 4/83. %

Fcevise DATE supecr 46
CRUISE AVAILABILITY.

 

 

 

 

eellee|isslieeie
eellzelieciiee

eellesllecliee!
celleelleeliee!

OR |
1 Mill St.

Staunton, Va
885-3409

 

nr)
c
E
e
é

rnp our Str
ore orp FLD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
5 Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian And

Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close

Reservations suggested

 

 

The Generals will get all they can
handle from Roanoke this weekend.
The Maroons, from most speculation,
will be the team to beat at the cham-
pionships.

“Roanoke is obviously the
favorite,’’ said Rippeon. ‘‘They’ve
beaten every team in the ODAC at
least once, I believe. Essentially, we
are the underdogs going in. Really,
nobody expects anybody but Roa-
noke to win.”’

Miller agreed. “I don’t know of
anyone who is going to beat
[Roanoke]”’ he said. ‘“‘They have four
good men and | think all the rest of us
are running for second place.”

The General's biggest competition
for second place will be Lynchburg, a
team W&L did not race against dur-
ing the regular season. Lynchburg,
like the Generals, were beaten badly
by Roanoke.

 

 

STOP IN

Part Time Help Wanted

flexible hours
mostly evenings & weekends
$3.35 an hour
Applications available at store

113 N. Main Street
463-5157

 

 

        
    
     
 

WIDESPREAD
PANIC

at the
GHO

Wednesday, Nov. 11
Presented by SAB

To all of the attention, Rawls just
smiled and gave the credit to his
teammates. “The rest of the defense
just tightened up and put pressure on
their outside shooters,’ he said.

Three Generals grabbed some post
season honors as well as the Cham-

pionship. Dietz and Perez were nam
ed co-players-of-the-year and first-
team all-Southern conference. Reavy
also made first-team all-Conference

W&L will have this weekend off to
prepare for the Eastern Regionals to
be held at Annapolis, Md., on Nov. 14.

Women harriers split

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

For the W&L women’s cross coun-
try team, last Saturday’s perfor-
mance may be an prelude for this
Saturday’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships.

The Generals, 3-3 on the season,
finished second in a tri-meet with
Eastern Mennonite and Lynchburg
on W&L’s home course. E-M won the
meet with 28 points, followed by W&L
with 42 and Lynchburg with 54. The
meet, however, gives a good idea as
to how the Generals will fare in the
championships. Both E-M and
Lynchburg are ODAC schools.

“T thought they ran well,” said
men’s head coach Dick Miller.
“Eastern Mennonite is a pretty well
established team.”’

Freshman Paige Cason passed
E-M’s Taurara Hunsberger in the
final 400 meters to finish first in a
time of 23:59 over the 5-kilometer

course. Hunsberger, according to
Miller, is one of the top runners in the
ODAC this season. Cason received
support from freshmen Sean Wert
(5th, 26:15), Margaret Boyd (11th,
28:29), Pat Lopes (12th, 29:00) and
sophomore Wendy Wilson (13th,
29:54).

“Paige did beat who I suspect is
the No. 1 runner in the conference,”
said Miller. ‘Although, you have to
recognize the fact that she had a little
heat exhaustion and Paige really
didn’t pass her until she got down on
the law school lawn. But Paige is run
ning strong.”’ ‘

Miller sees the ODAC champion
ships as Eastern Mennonite’s meet to
win, but he is optimistic that the
Generals will be able to improve on
the previous season’s third-place
finish.

The women’s championship race
will be held at 11:00 a.m. at
Bridgewater College with the men’s
race to follow at 12:00 p.m.

Soccer finishes on ‘upswing’

By Gary McCullough
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team closed out its 1987 season
this past week with two victories over
Millersville and Averett. The Gen-
eral’s final overall record stands at
an even .500, 7-7, and the team had a
3-2 Old Dominion Athletic Conference
mark.

Last Saturday for Parent’s
Weekend, the Generals took
Millersville apart at the seams.
Sophomore goalie Jack Pringle got
his third shutout of the season while
the Generals’ offense made the rest
look easy.

Junior Jamie Urso came away
with a couple of goals, and

sophomore Jeff Caggiano and senior
John Coll each put one in as well. One
goal was credited to the unhappy
Millersville player who, in an at
tempt to give the ball back to his
goalie, put W&L on the scoreboard
once again. The final score was 5-0.

On Monday, the Generals traveled
to Averett College to add yet another
shutout onto Pringle’s list. W&L
scored all of its own goals this time.
The 3-0 victory enabled the Genera!s
to reach the coveted .500 level.

The season was disappointing com
pared to last year when the team took
the ODAC championship, but after
riding through periods of very rocky
water, the season concluded with a
strong upswing.

Y

Got a Fall Weekend date
That you wanna elate
Go to Jefferson Florists
To guarantee they'll feel great.

HHP Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450

a

ae
VISA

(703) 463-9841

 
hm

‘BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1987

 

A night of campfires in Lee Chapel

 

Marguerite Ayers
ff Reporter

 

We may as well have been sitting
sund a campfire on a cool autumn
sht in Aspen, cuddled together,
ring into the light and letting our
ughts wander
nstead, the lights at the head of
Chapel reflect against the walls
the stage, and we sit in the pews,
light dusk, staring into the empty
ation, whispering occasional-

Eric and Roger occupy the two
1ely stools onstage
We are all pleased to see them, the
.o familiar faces that are so much a
rt of the library of memories from
r years at W&L. Tonight they have
ne back to the birthplace of their
sical career to mark the next slab
stone on their path, their second
yum. And to share it with an in-
nate audience
General Lee is hidden behind two
ge sliding doors, as if Erie and

ger are occupying a place for a
ie that has as much meaning to
st of us as that white reclining

ure
But not tonight.
Somehow classical white statuary
esn't belong around a campfire.
rhe chapel is silent as Eric pro-
‘es the first clean twang of a string
i his guitar. We all sit, somewhat in
daze. As if our minds are in limbo.
he blankness is a transition period
that the mind and the imagination ex-
perience, a move between thinking
bout the demands of the world, to a
ate of letting two acoustical guitars
and two soft voices guide one’s
oughts,
Roger joins in with the rich tones of
his guitar, and suddenly my mind

begins to wander. The words in their
song are describing a girl named
Jenny who “makes my head a little
lighter and my day a little brighter,”
and I receive this clear picture of
her. Then my mind moves to another
Jenny, a tall silent type who makes
my head light.

I look around the chapel, and so
many eyes are in a daze. They have a
Jenny on their minds too, someone
who makes their own day a little
brighter.

Roger and Eric give the gift of
time, time to think and ponder, as
their music can take the mind on a
grand tour of what it contains. Their
strings and descriptive words set
thoughts in motion, from the smell of
sweet magnolias, a smile or a kiss
from someone special, to traveling a
highway or sitting outside on the
porch in the evening.

They tap our feelings on relation-
ships, putting romance’s complex-
ities into words we understand like
“looking for honesty,’’ ‘‘the game,”’
being ‘‘tangled up in lies”’ or the ‘‘tor-
tures’ of the coy female.

And they translate that crazy ad-
diction that transcends practicality
as if they have been there, like driv-
ing all night on some miserable
highway to get to Alabama because,
“everything's all right when I’m with
you.”’

The roll of their guitars and the
tones of their voices make you think
of the last time you slept in until 3:00
on Saturday or the last time you
shared a bottle of screw-top wine and
a fireplace. Things their music
allows us to savor in our thoughts for
as long as we please.

They can stir up a lot of stuff that
you thought had been put away some-
where in your head, and even give

you a tight feeling in your stomach.
At times they can have the cathartic
function of a Greek tragedy, except
they do it in contemporary terms,
with an earthiness and themes we all
understand.

Over the course of a three-hour
concert, Roger and Eric allowed my

  

there. It’s as though you're not in Lee
Chapel at all

What a great place for these two to
record their second album; among
friends, on the breeding ground of
their career, with General Lee sleep-
ing beyond the doors behind them.

Thank you, Heinsohn and Day, for

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Heinsohn & Day recording their second album in Lee

Chapel.

mind to flow, bringing up images of
my Jenny, Mom in the garden,
memories of a friend lost in high
school, to the bristles of a horse’s
whiskers on my cheeks, fishing with
Dad and of course, many special
times in Lexington.

They create images in your mind,
make it travel, from a speckled
silvery trout pulled from a mountain
stream, to dusty cowboy boots and
pickup trucks, to misty mornings and
moonlit nights, to a pair of baby blue
eyes that truly capture your psyche.
And they do it in such a way that the
music sets the mood of really being

sharing your next stepping stone with
us, and for making new memories
and retrieving some old ones.

Their second album will feature 27
songs ranging from their favorite
original tunes to pieces they just
completed last week, plus lots of ap-
plause from their most loyal aud-
ience, their friends at Washington
and Lee. New material on the album
is a bit more complex and soundy
than their original work, but it still
has the same effect.

Recorded Tuesday evening, the
two are hopeful that the album will
be available by Christmas.

Spice creates women’s vocal ensemble

 

v Michael Tuggle
itertainment Editor

 

Starting next term, the singing
smen of Washington and Lee will
.ve their own vocal ensemble.
In another attempt to involve
udents in the Washington and Lee
usic program, choral director Dr.
wdon Spice has created the
-omen’s. Chorus; an all-female
semble that will perform pieces
itten specifically for women.
the Women's Chorus will be an
tgrowth of what is now the Univer-
iy Chorus. ‘This week, Spice, and
‘junect music professor, Tom For-
st, held auditions for fifty-two
ymen
Thirty-two of the women who audi-
oned were chosen to sing in the new
Women’s Chorus. The new ensemble
will perform pieces written especial-
y for women’s voices, but will also
sing pieces with the Glee Club that

 
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
  

  
  
 

2nd

   

 
 
 

 
  

 

 

ve.

a
\

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

The present University Chorus with director Dr. Gordon Spice.

are written for large mixed choruses
such as Handel’s ‘‘Messiah.”’

The twenty other women who audi-
tioned were chosen to sing in a select
ensemble along with twenty men.
These singers, considered by the

directors to be the finest forty singers
at Washington and Lee, will com-
prise the new University Chorus.
“The purpose of forming the ‘new’
University Chorus was to create a
select, numerically balanced, mixed-

ensemble from within the present
University Chorus.’’ said Spice. “At
the same time we wanted to continue
to provide an opportunity for all
qualified W&L students to sing.”

Spice is currently serving his sec-
ond term as president of Inter-
collegiate Men’s Choruses, Inc., the
governing body of male choral
ensembles in the United States, and
will continue to direct the University
Chorus and the Glee Club.

Forrest, a veteran conductor of col-
legiate women’s choruses in Virginia
and North Carolina, will conduct the

‘new Women’s Chorus beginning this
winter.

 

Legal Ethics Institute

invited.

 

 

 

 

 

 

TYPISTS: Hundreds weekly} |} HOMEWORKERS WANTED! Parttime-Home Mailing
at home! TOP PAY! Program!
Write: Excellent Income! Details, send seif-
. addressed, stamped envelope. West,
P.O. Box 17 C.l. 121 24th Ave., N.W. Suite 222 Box 5877, Hillside, NJ 07205
Clark, New Jersey 07066 Norman, Oklahoma 73069

 

 

 

Announcing the Official
Grand Opening
of the Rockbridge Food Co-op
and Sprout’s Natural Deli

110 W. Washington St.
Join us Monday, Nov. 9 - Friday, Nov. 13
10 a.m.-6 p.m.

For samples, treat-tasting
and special deals

GRAND
OPENING

Location

Rt. 11 North

Merle Norman/Wolff Tanning

M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.
STUDENT RATES
Solar Nails/Manicures
5 visits $25.00
10 visits $39.00
20 visits $79.00
“Free Visit to Tanning Bed With This Ad”’

CLEANERS

SINCE 1931

 
    
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

463-1782

  
 

CALENDAR

Friday, November 6

Registration for Winter Term 1988 ends.
LECTURE: “The Battered Woman Syndrome,” Prof.
Charles P. Ewing, University of New York at Buffalo. Moot

Williams. Room 221, Commerce School. Public invited.
PLAY: The Three Sisters. University Theatre, For reserva-

RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: The Cranes are Flying and Three

PLAY: The Three Sisters. University Theatre. For reserva-
tions, call theatre office, 463-8637. ,

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: FOOTBALL: Ursinus; CROSS
COUNTRY (M&W): ODAC Tournament, Bridgewater.

CONCERT GUILD: Chicago Symphony Winds. Lee Chapel.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Blue :
Ridge Pre-Law Forum. University Center. L

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Review of
Video Mock Interviews for seniors who participated. Room
103, University Center. Sign up in advance in CD&P office.

BIOLOGY FORUM: “‘Spruce-Fir Forests and Acid Rain,”
Dr. Peter White, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. a
Room 305, Parmly Hall. Refreshments at 4:30. Public

4p.m.
Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public invited.
8 p.m. LEGAL ETHICS LECTURE: “Will Commercialism Kill
Self-Regulation?” Joseph M. Spivey III, Hunton &
8 p.m.
tions, call theatre office, 463-8637.
7:30 p.m.
Sisters. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WATER POLO: Eastern
Championships (through Nov. 8).
Saturday, November 7
Legal Ethics Institute.
8 p.m.
Sunday, November 8
Legal Ethics Institute.
8 p.m.
Public invited
~Monday, November 9
1-5 p.m.
Wednesday, November 11
1-4p.m.
5p.m.

=

 

 

Diary entry 2x4

 

By Greg Unger
Music Critic

Guadalcanal Diary, Athens Ga.’s
other band, provides us yet again
with a “‘litany’’ of great songs all
compiled on another stellar album.
Following ‘“‘Jamboree,”’ and “Walk-
ing in the Shadow of the Big Man,”
their new album ‘2x4’ certainly
doesn’t disappoint. Though heavily
influenced by their home-town
honeys, R.E.M., Guadalcanal Diary
clearly has matured into a major
force on the new music scene.

In fact, the only childish things
about the album are the picture of the
kid on the LP’s front cover, and the
scrawled list of tunes on the back. So
what. What matters is the music in-
side. It’s gonna send you Guadal-
canal island-hopping right down to
the local record store to buy it or
maybe even to the bookstore to
charge it home — that is if they've
updated/improved their inane,
festering, moronic, musically
abysmal selection of tapes and CD’s.
Be that as it may, their album is
awesome.

Guadalcanal Diary really appears
to come into its own with ‘‘2x4”
—starting the album off with 3 poten-
tial progressive hits — “‘Litany (Life

  
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
   

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS AND COIN LAUNDRY

College Square Shopping Center

¢Fully Attended
¢All-New Equipment
eWell lit at night
¢Drop-off laundry service

¢Dry Cleaning

¢Drive-through service for dry cleaning
Color TV viewing in coin laundry

¢Study-reading area

University Cleaners and Coin Laundry is conveniently located at College Square Shopping Center.
Now you can take care of all your weekly chores in one shopping trip. Our clean, modern facility offers the follow-

  
 

 

 

We are still downtown at 7 N. Jefferson St.

 

 

College Square Shopping Center
8 a.m.-9 p.m. Mon.-Fri.
9 a.m.-9 p.m. Sat. & Sun.

 

7N. Jefferson St.
8 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Mon.-Fri.
9 a.m.-1 p.m. Saturday

ce ~~»
eorge’s Hairstylis
since 1963

directly behind Leggett’s
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell,

GRAND
OPENING

2nd
Location

Goes On),” “Under the Yoke,” and
“Get Over It.” All 3 tracks have been
getting extensive airplay at WLUR,
so don’t take my word for it, tune into
your one and only favorite radio sta-
tion, weekdays 3-5:30. “‘Little Birds”’
is a schizophrenic follow-up. “‘Things
Fall Apart” is stridently serious with
more emphasis on Murray Attaway’s
guitar manipulation. Attaway also
sings, and ‘2x4’ depends on his
crystal-clear, sometimes lilting,
sometimes scorching lyrical expres-
sion. But, needless to say, the rest of
the guys provide the background
chorus that singularly defines
“Guadalcanal Diary.”” Let the Big
Wheel Roll” finishes up the ‘‘A’’ side
as somewhat of a let down.

“Where Angels Fear to Tread,”
and ‘‘New Born’”’ head a superb sec-
ond side. Brad Shaw approves.
He’s...‘‘Glad to see them on the right
track following their feeble ‘Jam-
boree’ excursion.”’ ‘‘Say Please”
contrasts favorably to ‘3 AM;”’ the
former more strident and the latter
more of a ballad. ‘Lips of Steel’ ends
the album.

To round out this meandering bab-
ble, Guadal Canal Diary has return-
ed to their former greatness and
should be listened to immediately
and indefintely.

Ear Value * * *-6/11 (out of 4).

 
 
    

   
   
   

  
  
 

  

 
  
 
   
 

   

  

   

 
 
 
 

     
   
       
   

 
   
