‘

 

VOLUME 87, NUMBER 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Che Ring-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 8, 1987

 

 

 

 

 

 

Saturday morning’s fire left several W&L students homeless.

Wé&L Phi Gamma Delta wins

 

By Jessica Reynolds
Staff Reporter

 

Federal Express really pays off.

Last year, the Washington and Lee
chapter of the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity entered the competition
for the Condon Cup, an award given
to the chapter within ‘‘Fiji’’ which
shows the most improvement over
one year.

Thinking the application would
miss the deadline, the chapter sent
the form through Federal Express to
ensure its prompt arrival.

“I spent a lot of time filling out the
application. We thought it would be
late, so we sent it Federal Express,”
said Rob MacPherson, treasurer for
the fraternity.

During July, Fiji sent a represen-
tative to Fiji Academy not knowing
that they would be presented with
“one of the most sought-after
awards,”’ according to Tiger Thiel, a
field secretary for Phi Gamma Delta
international fraternity.

Kevin Nash, a sophomore at W&L
had the honor of receiving the award
that now rests in the Fiji living room.

The award is named for Herbert T.

“—

 

Condon, Sr., who was a member of
the Sigma Tau Chapter of Fiji at the
University of Washington. The Sigma
Tau chapter presented the interna-
tional headquarters with the award
as a representation of Condon’s ser-
vice, said Thiel.

Thiel said W&L’s chapter of Fiji
will keep the cup through August of
1988.

“This is one of the most sought-
after awards, because many
chapters make a great deal of im-
provement and it is very difficult to
judge,”’ Thiel said.

“There are 126 chapters across the

University’s Annual Fund has
second record setting year

 

By Stacy Morrison
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee Annual
Fund set records for total dollars
received and number of donors for
the second year ina row.

“Last year, which ended June 30 of
this year, the Annual Fund collected
$1,744,000, which is a substantial in-
crease over our goal of $1,600,000,”
said J. Hardin Marion, chairman of
the Annual Fund.

Marion added that aside from the
number of dollars donated, records
wre also set for ‘‘number of donors,
in terms of the percentage of alumni,
and parents, and in the size of the
average gift.”

The total number of donors in-
creased form 6,621 to 7,019. The
percentage of alumni donors went up
4 percent to 6,422, as did the percen-
tage of parents who contributed, up
45 percent to 525.

Contributions by members of Lee
Associates and Colonnade Club
members went up, as well. Colon-
nade Club members, those who con-
tribute $100 or more to W&L, increas-
ed 11 percent to 3,670.

Total donations by Colonnade Club
members increased 14 percent to
$708,334. Lee Associates, those who
contribute $1,000 or more, increased
19 percent to 529. Their total dona-
tions also increased 19 percent to
$938,705.

A new category of giving is being
started in the Annual Fund this year.

“Starting this year, we will also have
the ‘‘General’s Council” for those
who contribute $10,000 or more to the
university,”’ Marion said.

This years goal, according to
Marion, is $1,850,000. “My job is to
see if we can beat that goal again this
year,”’ Marion said.

Marion explained that the Annual
Fund reaches each alumnus through
a class agent, an alumnus who
volunteers to contact each member
in his class.

There is at least one agent for
every class, and in some cases there
are co-class agents or associate class
agents, Marion said.

“We try to contact every alumnus
through the class agent as personally
as we are able — through a letter or
phone call, or if possible, a face-to-
face visit,” said Marion.

In addition to trying to reach each
alumnus four times a year, Marion
said the Annual Fund uses methods
such as the student phone-a-thon to
bring in donations.

This year the Annual Fund will use
three new approaches in its attempt
to break records again. The first new
program is a series of regional
meetings across the country.

“These meetings are hosted by a
trustee or a member of the board of
directors or someone in the leader-
ship of the Annual Fund,” said
Marion, ‘‘and key contributors are
invited to the meeting in their
locale.”’

Marion added that the content of
the meeting concerns ‘‘what is hap-

pening at the university, what is
needed for the university and urgings
for increases in their levels of con-
tributions.”

Farris Hotchkiss, McMiller and
Marion began their tour of these
regional meetings last week when
they went to Baltimore, Washington
D.C., Philadelphia and.New York.
Next week meetings will be held in
Houston, Dallas, New Orleans, Mem-
phis, Tampa, Atlanta and Roanoke.
The final meeting will be held a week
later in Richmond.

The second new approach is the
formation of a ‘new’ class that is
composed of all participants of the
Washington and Lee Alumni College.

This Alumni College is a summer
program of three-week-long inter-
disciplinary scholastic programs
that gives alumni the chance to
return to W&L and attend classes.
“This brings a lot of alumni back to
campus that might not have been
back otherwise,”’ Marion said.

To take advantage of this situation,
the Annual Fund appointed a class
agent for the alumni of the Alumni
College. ‘‘The very responsible Jim
Ballengee has agreed to serve as the
class agent for this project for this
year,”’ Marion said.

Marion said that he hoped this pro-
gram would reach non-alumni, as
well, and provoke them to donate,
especially in the cases of spouses or
friends of alumni who had _par-
ticipated in the Alumni College.

CO See Annual, page 9

4 ,|Fire guts apartment,

W&L students displaced

 

By Abb Jones
Staff Reporter

Two Washington and Lee Universi-
ty undergraduates and one law stu-
dent were left homeless and one
cat was killed after a fire gutted one
apartment and caused extensive
smoke damage in the other early
Saturday morning.

The apartment building, which was
located at 401 East Nelson St. near
Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lex-
ington, was partially gutted and suf-
fered from extensive smoke damage.
The apartment containing the two
undergraduates, sophomores Ted
Evans and Mason Van Sciver, was
completely destroyed in the fire,
which was believed to have been
caused by either faulty wiring in the
electrical system or a faulty connec-
tion in the gas stove.

Evans was the first to arrive at the
scene of the fire. He said that when
he arrived home around 2:20 a.m. he
noticed smoke billowing out from the
windows.

“As I was coming up the hill I
noticed the windows were smoking. I
parked the car and kicked in the front
door. I guess the sudden blast of air
caused the flames to grow, because
they knocked me off the front porch.”’

Evans said he then ran across the
street to the hospital, where he called
the Lexington Fire Department.

‘Windows started popping out as I
got back. I saved some things until
the flames got too intense.”

Lexington Fire Chief Brian Causey
said the fire department received a
call from Edward Evans at 2:28 a.m.
Saturday. He said that five units and
21 men were dispatched onto the
scene within three minutes, where
they managed to prevent the fire
from spreading to the neighboring
apartment of Kevin Henderson from
Taylors, S.C., 3rd year law, and his
wife who were out of town when the
fire occurred. The Henderson’s
apartment suffered only smoke
damage although their pet cat died in
the fire.

Evans and Van Sciver were not at
home when the blaze started.

Evans and Van Sciver have moved
to 701 North Main, where they have
been working to replace their
clothes, books and other personal
items which were all destroyed in the
fire. Evans estimated his and Van
Sciver’s losses at around $14,000.
Evans was insured under his
parents’ home owners’ policy.

Evans’s and Van Seiver’s landlord,
Bill Stearns, helped the two in
locating housing by refering them to
Alice Strecker of Mead Associates,
Strecker put the two up in the house
known to many W&L students as
Fishbait.

Evans said he disagreed with the
fire department's explanation of the
cause of the fire.

“I was told that by the burn pat-
terns, the fire started in the far right
hand corner, where we had a lamp. I
think the cord may have just
frayed.”

The Henderson’s could not be
reached for comment. They present-
ly are living in Staunton while they
search for a new place to live.

national fraternity award

United States and Canada competing
for the cup. This (the Condon Cup)
and the Cheney Cup — the most
outstanding chapter — are the most
sought-after,’’ Thiel said.

The application for the cup is judg-
ed by an independent panel of
graduate brothers. The international
headquarters is not involved with the
selection, leaving no biases, said
Thiel, a graduate of Ohio University
and a member of the Alpha Omega
chapter of Phi Gamma Delta.

“T think winning the cup got a lot of
the group motivated. People are real-
ly beginning to do more things for the

house,” said Stanley Hall, president
of the W&L chapter of Phi Gamma
Delta.

Hall said many people were sur-
prised that the chapter won a na-
tional award.

Hall said he plans to keep everyone
motivated and run things like the
past year — when the chapter was
under the direction of Jim Cockey.

A major achievement was the
remodeling of the house, said Major
Randall Hill, advisor for the fraterni-
ty.

“Before, they did not have any-
where to recruit and now they got

everyone together and have improv-
ed their pledge class,’’ Randall said.

“Basically, we’ve got a good group
of people. They are all pretty respon-
sible members of the fraternity and
good students,” Hill said.

This year Fiji received 17 pledges,
but their president did not attribute
their recruiting success to the
recognition they received this sum-
mer.

“We did not emphasize the cup, but
instead focused on the brotherhood,”

O See Fiji, page 9

 

.

atebelaty Asheley WERE. ae

 

A kiss is just a kiss

In a scene to be repeated this weekend, Prof. Keith Shillington kisses last year’s homecoming queen

Colleen Bradley.

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

_ IFC and fraternities grapple with the issue of pledge hazing

 

By Pete Boatner
News Editor

 

Every year after Rush the issue of ‘“‘haz-

ing,’’ the abuse of pledges at fraternities,
crops up on campus.

This year, though, it has grown into a ma-
jor issue for the IFC.

At least one case of hazing has already
been reported this year, according to Univer-
sity Psychologist James Worth.

“Hazing tears down unity...it victimizes an
individual,” said Worth, who was a fraterni-
ty member in college.

Every year, said Worth, he talks to
freshmen who de-pledge because of what
they see as undue abuse from upper-
classmen.

“Hazing says to the pledge, ‘We the
members of X fraternity don’t really care
how you’re doing, we’d rather have fun at
your expense,’”’ said Worth.

Though he ‘‘doesn’t have the sense that
hazing is on the increase,”’ Worth won’t say

that hazing has dropped off significantly in
recent years.

Reports of physical abuse such as paddling
have declined, he said.

However, ‘‘a lot of people won’t talk about
hazing because they want to remain loyal to
the fraternity,” he said.

That comment highlights one of the pro-
blems in discussing hazing. No one, from the
IFC’s faculty advisor to fraternity pres-
idents, denies that hazing occurs, but all are
reluctant to cite specific examples for fear of
reprisals.

Informally, though, members of several
fraternities confirm that pledge activities in-
volving forced drinking, physical exertion
such as calisthenics, ‘kidnapping,’ and
name-calling do take place.

All of these activities could fit into the IFC
constitution’s definition of prohibited ac-
tivities, which precludes ‘‘any physical or
emotional hazard to the individual. Such
potential hazards include alcohol abuse,
dangerous physical exertion or exhaustion,
physical or emotional violence, paddling and

other types of abuse.”’

According to Associate Dean Leroy C.
“Buddy”’ Atkins, hazing at W&L, though less
serious than in the past, is still a major pro-
blem.

Recent rumors that any house caught

practicing any form of hazing would be ex-
pelled from campus are nof quite accurate,

Atkins said.

Lesser offenses would result in less serious
punishments, he said.

“Forced drinking of any kind is highly
dangerous and would be construed as haz-
ing,”’ he said. ‘‘I hope there’s a greater sense
of awareness this year that...even subtle
pressure to drink is a serious [ offense].”’

IFC President Mark Farley supported this
explanation.

“Serious hazing’ would earn a house the
maximum penalty, Farley said, but he added
the IFC wants to keep its options open.

“The IFC reserves the right to use suspen-
sion or expulsion on a first strike basis,’ he
said, explaining that a single serious offense
could bring harsh reprisals

» . ORE Rae +

As far as what constitutes hazing, Farley
thinks the limits are clear.

“All frats have received from their na-
tionals a list of ‘‘do’s’’ and ‘‘don’t’s,”’ he said.
“There’s not a fraternity member out there
who has a question about what is hazing.”’

“If you’re not sure about an activity, ask

yourself this question: ‘If it beeame known to
the general public, would it be embarrassing
to the chapter or to the university?’ ’’ he
said.

But he added, ‘I would be naive to think
that hazing does not go on,”’ he added

At least two houses on campus claim to
avoid all forms of hazing.

‘‘We were founded at VMI on the principle
of not hazing,” said Sigma Nu President Jon

Solomon, adding that at the time, VMI was
known for intense hazing

He said this policy entails limiting
freshmen, called ‘‘novices’’ rather than
pledges, to activities that ‘build respect for
the brotherhood and for the physical house,”’

This means no freshmen-only clean-ups,
and no use of freshmen for errands, he said

Lambda Chi Alpha gives its freshmen
pledges, called ‘associate members,”’ full
rights as soon as they join, said fraternity
educat6r Matt Upton.

“‘We don’t haze, it’s just not worth the has-
sle,” he said.

Other houses also claim to avoid hazing,
but think they should be allowed to set their
own policies.

Basically we haven’t been doing things we
thought were bad in the past, so we really
didn’t have to change this year,”’ said Reese
Lanier, Phi Delta Theta president

“The question is, what is considered haz-
ing,” he said. ‘‘I feel it’s pretty cut and dry.”’

Lanier also said he thought there was ‘‘a
serious attitude change’ among fraternities
this year

Sigma Alpha Epsilon President Steve
Szezecinski said, ‘‘| Hazing] has gotten a lot
better since we were freshmen... there have
been leaps and bounds here

“T see the administration’s point,’’ he said,

See Hazing, page 9
OPINION
Hazing

Ata recent Interfraternity Council meeting it was said that
any house found guilty of hazing would immediately be
removed from the Washington and Lee campus. However,
not result in severe physical injury? Are they any less a
violation of the law?

It is great to have such a policy for what is deemed
“‘serious”’ hazing incidents; but what about incidents that do
not result in such severe physical injury? Are they any less a
violation of the law?

Fraternity hazing at W&L seems to be a taboo subject. One
rarely sees stories in The Ring-tum Phi about it or frater-
nities punished for it. Even so, if everyone can remember
their freshman year in the dormitory, there are many hazing
examples to be found.

The times that pledges have come home exhuasted and
covered with mud after a ‘‘pledge function.’’ The phone calls
from pledges who have been driven anywhere from 15 to 30
miles out of town and left with only a quarter to get home.
The surprise arrival of brothers in the dorm who kidnap
pledges on weeknights. All these are examples of hazing that
seem to happen regularly at W&L. Although no one has been
seriously injured as a result of these activities, as far as we
know, they should still be termed serious hazing offenses,
worthy of considering the suspension of a fraternity’s
charter.

Not all hazing is physical. Fraternity brothers can place
undue amounts of stress on pledges by harrassing and em-
barrassing them. Verbally berating them for no reason other
than to remind them they are pledges, or requiring them to
wear ridiculous clothing that would bring them to public
shame are prime examples. Emotional scars, while not as
obvious as physical ones, can be just as damaging.

Some say that the whole process of hazing is to make the
pledges stronger and closer to the house. Of course, the
pledge class may be driven closer together in an effort to pro-
tect themselves from being hazed even further. But how can
a fraternity honestly say that they are building brotherhood
by physically and mentally abusing pledges?

The whole process of pledge training is to begin assim-
ilating the new members into the house. It also gives both the
fraternity and the pledges a chance to change their mind,
which is extremely important. However, the pledges should
be taught the principle of brotherhood as it applies to the
ideals of the fraternity. They should not be taught to fear the
brotherhood. Hazing does just that, and makes a mockery of
the entire fraternity system, even the innocent.

Safe sex

As time goes on and the danger of Acquired Immune Defi-
ciency Syndrome (AIDS) grows larger and larger, it must be
assumed that the deadly disease will eventually reach the
Washington and Lee campus. Whether that time arrives this

 

month or next year is unknown. But we know this: °

Washington and Lee needs a policy to help deal with the
situation when it arises.

There are many problems that will have to be dealt with if
a student tests positive for the disease. If the student chooses
on-campus housing, will he or she have roommates? How will
the students react? Will there be a possibility that the univer-,
sity’s action will result in a lawsuit? All of these questions,
and others, are very delicate and must be handled with care.

Of course, part of the policy needs to provide for the educa-
tion of students and faculty about AIDS. Many of the pro-
blems that have been seen in society have resulted from ig-
norance, which results in AIDS victims being treated as
pariahs. If the W&L community are well-informed on the
subject, many future problems may be avoided.

Part of this education should be promoting safe sex among
students. It has been charged that providing condoms either
in the dormitories or elsewhere will cause students to be
more sexually active. This is a ridiculous accusation. If the
sight of condoms for sale or give away induces students to
have sex, they would have begun long ago after seeing them
at the drug store or Stop-In.

The fact of the matter is college students are sexually ac-
tive. Although it is fine to advise abstinence as the best pro-
tection from sexually transmitted diseases, alternatives
should be available for those who choose to remain active.
Moral judgments on sexual behavior should not be part of a
policy; the safety of the student body should be. Therefore,
easily obtainable condoms are just plain common sense.

Any policy the administration may decide upon should
allow for the humane treatment of students with the disease.
Since it has not been proven that AIDS can be spread through
casual contact, there is no reason to force any infected stu-
dent to leave the university. However, student anxiety about
living with a victim of AIDS must be anticipated. To deal
with this, the university needs to form a committee, compris-
ed of administration, faculty and students, to help determine
what the W&L community believes about this issue. Then a
policy can be formed that is as fair as possible to all involved.

Che Ring-tum Phi:

NEW STAFF

COIIOI 6 oo o6 6c tle is iii beace cee cas sci sttreceb catiecscecessstsess Marie Dunne

David Emrich
Perr oe Peter Boatner
a MPO ee Chris Munsey
BE TN nic cies cc idence cesesccccccrccscccccdececccssseesssseees: Mike Shady
Bbertabament BOMer 6... ck cc ccecccvcccscccscccscevevevcesvcceses Michael Tuggle
PROPOITAY GREG oii ic oes certs ecccrecernecnedscneeccsenrecctiecste Perry Hayes
Ree Katherine Graci

EDITORIAL PAGE STAFF

WORT Pe GOO 65 iio ig eke clic lence ceetarersertscrins Sean Bugg
CRPIIIE oo idee ene ii ies vecescess ceri better es Stephen Ingram
BUSINESS STAFF

Business Manager .......s.ccccscccscccsvecseeessreseescvseveseenes Rhona Hughes
Assistant Business Manager .......cccccscccccrcccrrecsesccrsesesvovees Jason Faust
Advertising Manager. ..........sceeeeceeeeereeeeeeeeeenneereenes Christie Champlin
Circulation Manage® ......sccccccccssccrceresereceeeeceeesscscevesees Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

-_

then
On !

al Sony

gust love

Feock
2k i: iw
Now hatex. he
rich LHe

u

 

The Genesis Of Gaines Hall

 

MY VIEW

By Margaret Pimblett

Son ; gust step came

Some thing |Ke,* Are
yer dis + Peenel the

oh - really love vf ch

Sor

 

In the beginning, there was a street
corner, and the streets were
Washington and Nelson, and the cor-
ner was the former home of a Coca-
Cola bottling plant.

And the Washington and Lee ad-
ministration saw the corner, and saw
that it was good.

And the administration said, ‘‘Let
there be no more bottling plant, and
no more small house:next door, and
let the contractors come forth from
every corner of the earth and create
upon the earth a new dwelling
place.”

And there were contractors, and
the administration saw that the con-
tractors were good.

Evening came, and morning came,
the first day.

The administration said, ‘Let
there be dynamite blasting the rock
from its stronghold, and let the work
equipment awaken the residents of
the freshmen dorms at unholy hours
of the morning, and the airborne rock
burst through the windows of the

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987

tril Mie cor

4 | Lihe pol inal behre yeu Can say pe
Hut trehet wr Wen. anel Plastevel to

egmetern “

it ihe they b
: su stupicl

dorms.”

So the construction crews began
their work at unholy hours and
shifted their large machinery into
reverse gear so as to create a pierc-
ing beeping sound, and the dorm
residents cursed and struggled to
regain their sleep, and the ad-
ministration saw that it was good.

Evening came, and morning came,
the second day.

The administration said, ‘Let. the
building be open to upperclass men
and women who desire a dwelling
place nearer to Us, and are willing to
sacrifice individual dwellings for the
convenience of. campus residence,
and who want a weight room, laun-
dry room and computer room at their
ready access.”

So the housing office produced in-
formative brochures, and accumu-
lated the names of those who wished
to reside in such a dwelling, and coor-
dinated the inhabitants of room and
suite, and mediated disagreements.

Evening came, and morning came,
the third day.

And the construction of this dwel-
ling place was delayed by the swell-
ing of the waves and the pouring
down of the skies in the form of snow
and rain. And the site became a
quagmire of mud and stone, and the

SOW,

Like Y

workmen were idle.

And the administration saw that it
was not good, but was unable to im-
prove the situation.

Evening came, and morning came,
the fourth day.

On the fifth day, the administration
saw that the building was progress-
ing, but was still behind schedule,
and was concerned that the dwelling
place would not be ready for the in-
habitants. And it said, ‘Let the con-
struction crew work extra hours,
pouring concrete and laying brick,
installing electric wiring and plumb-
ing fixtures, and preparing the
building for its residents.

So the construction crews worked
ev and weekends, attempting
to have building inhabitable by
the deadline.

Evening came, and morning came,
the fifth day.

On the sixth day, the residents ar-
rived, and found their rooms com-
plete, or nearly so. But the non-
residential areas were barren and
empty, and the laundry, weight, and
computer rooms lay still, and the
gatehouse was incomplete.

And the residents searched the
heavens and the earth for parking
spaces, and found none available.

And the administration said, ‘Let

Ar. én minute

<

a Secekel. '

 

4

Tv been. wasting to treket a taf all day. A purtty CA gust ike :
Yours. Youril just step mae aned, TU Floor He o* anh vy

 
  
  
   
 
  
  

By Stephen Ingram

the work continue while the residents
are within the dwelling, and let the
furniture inspectors knock on doors
at unholy hours. Let the toilets be
residential strength, not industrial,
and let them become clogged with
alarming frequency, and each swite
shall have pyramids of toilet paper
beneath the sinks. Let the telephone
situation be confusing and unbear-
able and phones be connected with
the incorrect numbers, and let’ no
suite have the same telephone
number for the entire suite.”’

So Centel attempted to correct the
phone problems, and the work crews
completed” the kitchen and laundry
facilities. And the administration
saw that it was good.

Evening came, and morning came,
the sixth day.

The administration said, ‘‘Let the
construction on the gatehouse con-
tinue, and let the landscaping com-
mence, so that the building will look
presentable by Homecoming Week-
end.” }

So the landscapers said, ‘‘Let there
be grass and shrubbery and tree ap-
pearing overnight,” and there were..

Thus was Gaines Residence Hai:
created. On the seventh day, the ad-
ministration rested, and blessed the
day and made it holy. i

Tye-dye craze is a hard one to figure out

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

The Phi’s Talkback concerning
“tie-dye shirts on campus” was very
educational. A large number of those
questions ‘‘seemed to feel that only
authentic ‘‘Dead Heads’’ are
qualified to wear tye-dye T-shirts.
Much to my regret I didn’t quite see
the correlation so I decided to do a lit-
tle research.

It didn’t take me long to learn that
dead-heads are the subculture of
humanity which follows a band
around while consuming a massive
quantity of drugs while living in
poverty. The band those people
follow around is the Grateful Dead
hence the term Dead Heads. It would
seem that these people must have in-
vented tye-dye shirts and were
known at one time to wear them ex-
clusively until the general population
caught on. And according to the
‘Dead Heads” at W&L these

“Pseudo-Dead Heads”’ have no right
to wear tye-dyes.

I find this ‘‘tye-dye controversy”
fascinating because most of the peo-
ple in my native city simply listen to
music. I believe more definite
guidelines are needed to weed out the
pseudos from the real thing. As un-
fortunate as it is this whole universi-
ty should probably be eliminated
because anyone here does not have
time to follow a band around the
country consuming drugs and let’s
face it — there are no weekend Dead
Heads. Besides, roaming around the
country consuming drugs probably
tend to make one liberal and
Washington and Lee is hardly a
liberal university.

But the guidelines are still too
broad. What if an encyclopedia
salesman from Tulsa can prove he
followed the Grateful Dead around
the country, influenced by various
drugs, in the 60’s? Should this in-
dividual be qualified to wear tye-dye
shirts?

Then there’s the problem that
anyone with some form of transpor-
tation and access to drugs could easi-
ly qualify as a Dead Head. Is the pro-

Co-op display case
endangers education

 

MY VIEW
By C. Edward Klank III

 

Mark Twain once remarked, ‘‘the
autocrat of Russia possesses more
power than any other man in the
world, but he cannot stop a sneeze.”’
The Washington and Lee food
cooperative/bookstore/record
shack/stuffed animal center has a
very troubling glass display in the
food cooperative dining area. This
display contains quite a variety of ob-
jects — a Bloom County book, a Far

Side book, and some items new to
W&L this year. There is a major pro-
blem with these new items — a pro-
blem which could undermine the en-
tire system of higher learning in
America.

The first problem is with the two T-
shirts present in the glass display.
The first one reads “W&L Party
Animal.” Unfamiliar with this vague
term, I had to obtain some
background information about it.
“Party Animal’’ is a backward term,
first coined by rednecks and low in-
tellects, meaning one who socializes
extensively by hanging out at Auto
Shacks, Sonic Drive-ins, and bowling

C See Klank, page 3

cess selective enough? Maybe real
Dead Heads should be forced to pro-
ve a relation to a band member, but
then there would not be enough of
them for the Grateful Dead to hold a
concert.

The repercussions of Pseudo vs.
Dead Head go even deeper. What if
other organizations started to adopt
Dead Head practices? What if Her-
man Hanes (probable name of the
man who invented the T-shirt) decid-
ed that only those people who follow-
ed him around the country actively

Snorkin

 

  

  
 
 

£”

ee

 

F

4 Pi
a 1

using drugs could wear T-shirts?

Resolving this tye-dye controversy
is not going to be easy but it is a
necessity. If the problem continues
unabated it will divide the country
and possibly result in a tye-dye civil
war. Already it looks to be the main
issue in the ‘88 presidential election.

I failed to mention the other and
more logical method of dealing with
the tye-dye issue which the venerable
professor Cook said best when asked
by the Phi, “No I don’t guess I know
what they are. I didn’t even notice.”’

 

   

M

 
   
  

»)
CA)
KW

\ Lo
i CRS

y
“YW

 

DOES ANYONE HAVE A COAT HANGER?
.

Conn
a.
%,

a?

OPINION/NEWS

: Students discuss pros and cons of Bork’s nomination

 

The following articles were written
for Professor William F. Connelly’s
Politics 102 class, Both papers, which
received A grades, were written
prior to the Senate committee's
negative reccomendation for Judge
Robert H. Bork’s nomination to the
United States Supreme Court. The
papers were written as memos to a

~ senator.

 

 

 

_ the 54

     

On July 1, President Reagan ap-
pointed D.C. Court of Appeals Judge
Robert Heron Bork to replace retir-
ing Supreme Court Justice Lewis
Powell. Bork has an impressive
background in the four major areas
of law: private practice, academia,
government experience, and the
judiciary. One of the country’s
leading conservative legal scholars,
he has galvanized the entire range of
ideological opinion like no other in re-
cent memory. The clash over the con-
firmation of the 60-year old Penn-
sylvania native as the 104th Supreme
Court Justice has taken on distinctly
political overtones, and has been
referred to as a “battle for the
Court’s judicial future.”’ Although
conservatives laud him as ‘‘the most
brilliant nominee to the Supreme

#: Court since Felix Frankfurter,’”’ he

has been opposed by Democratic
leaders, black leaders, women’s
groups, labor groups, and civil rights
groups. Bork’s disputatious judicial
concepts have placed him at the
heart of the controversy during a

. crucial point in the history of the

Supreme Court and in the national
political cycle.

The confirmation has already been
mired in partisan politics because of
D)-46 (R) division of the
Senate, the upcoming '88 election,
and the fact that three Senators are
candidates for the presidential

nomination. The Reagan Admini-
stration has muted rhetoric em-
phasizing Bork’s philosophy and
avoided speculation on his future
. voting record. At the same time
vehemently opposed liberals such as

 

Teddy Kennedy charged that under
Bork ‘‘the doors of the federal courts
would be shut on the fingers of
millions of citizens’ and that confir-
mation would bring about a dracon-
ian shift in the balance of the Court.
The primary concern is over the
Court’s multitude of 5-4 decisions,
and therfore Judge Bork’s judicial
philosophy has come under close
scrutiny.

Two related points of contention
have been Bork’s interpretation of
the Founders’ “original intent’’ and
the theory of ‘‘judicial restraint.”
The Justice Department describes
the nominee as ‘‘the most eloquent,
consistent, and brilliant exponent of
the classic theory of judicial
restraint.” Employment of _ this
restraint and of the guide of stare
decisis concerning rights to privacy
have been particularly applicable to
the subject of abortion in the Roe vs.
Wade case. Bork strongly believes
that the role of the Supreme Court is
merely interpretive, not legislative.
He therefore agreed with the dissen-
ting opinion of Justice White, who
stated that the Court had simply
created ‘“‘a new constitutional right
for pregnant mothers and, with
scarcely any reason or authority for
its action, invested that right with
sufficient substance to override most
existing state abortion statutes.”
This position, of course, has not won
Bork any support from women’s
groups or from the pro-choice move-
ment, but he has repeatedly stated
that his criticisms of issues and deci-
sions does not mean that he would
necessarily overturn those rulings.
Bork’s opposition to the manner in
which the 1973 decision was reached
could result in a 4-4 Court split with
Justice O’Connor as the “‘swing vote’’
if Bork is confirmed.

The nominee has also been deemed
“risky”’ by black leaders and official-
ly opposed by the NAACP. Although
this organization is worried about an
attempt to roll back recent gains in
civil rights, there is nothing in Bork’s
background to suggest any
discriminatory bias based upon race.
He has, however, been accused of a
biased support of big business, a free
market economy, and extensive ex-
ecutive power. The Public Citizen
Litigation Group has claimed that
‘‘in split cases where the government
is a party, Judge Bork voted against
consumers, environmental groups,
and workers almost 100% of the time

and for business in every such case”’
and that he “‘had regularly sided with
the executive branch.’ Opponents
again fear reversals of advances
made by organized labor unions and
the repeal of legislation such as the
War Powers Act, which limits the
power of the Executive in times of
crisis without a declaration of war.
Judge Bork’s deference to the ex-
ecutive was pointed out in his role as
the Solicitor General who, on Nixon’s
order, fired Special Watergate Pro-
secutor Archibald Cox. Because of
the similarity between the functions
of the two judiciary posts, the
Judiciary Committee will probably
give Bork’s actions and decisions as
an appellate judge precedence over
past events. While conservatives con-
tinue to promote ork as a centrist or
moderate, liberals have insisted that
he is a legal zealot whose passion will
color his decisions. Robert Bork has
also been an effective witness on his
own behalf, demonstrating himself to
be an articulate, witty man with a
commanding knowledge of the areas
of discussion.

When Bork was first named,
almost everyone in Washington
thought the confirmation would be
fairly certain, but no longer. In the
closely divided Senate the issue may
become a test of party loyalty, and
moderate Southern Democrats (with
large numbers of blacks and unioniz-
ed labor in their constituencies) are
key elements in the undecided bloc.
The Democrats, however, are trying
to avoid their persistent image as
captives of the special interests. The
Administration and its allies see the
confirmation as a chance to leave a
lasting impression on American life.
They deny reports that Bork has
deliberately softened some of his con-
troversial stands to win Senate con-
firmation. Instead, when public opi-
nion appeared to be moving against
Bork, Reagan responded with an in-
tense lobbying campaign aimed at
undecided Senators. It had been
rumored that Orrin Hatch or Paul
Laxalt would be follow-up nominees,
but Reagan recently rejected any
back-up strategy for an alternative to
Bork. Confirmation of this nominee
has become the President’s ‘‘No. 1
domestic priority.’’ After 12 days of
testimony from 110 witnesses the 14
members of the Judiciary Commit-
tee closed the hearings on Wednes-
day. The Bork Nomination will
presumably be sent to the floor with

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987

no recommendation to allow more
time for the undecided Senators to
make up their minds. According to
Senate Minority Whip Alan Simpson,
his present vote count showed Bork
holding a 4 vote lead with 20 to 24
members still undecided.

In my opinion, Senator, your vote
should be one in favor of Judge
Robert Bork’s confirmation to the
Supreme Court position. Since you
have already made the decision not
to run for re-election to the Senate,
the results of a vote in either direc-
tion would probably not affect the re-
mainder of your term, but a strong
party showing may prove to be im-
portant if you choose to run for
statewide office in the future. Also
keep in mind that the female, black,
and unionized sectors of the popula-
tion of Virginia may have strong feel-
ings about a vote cast in favor of
Bork, the repercussions of which
may be felt later. I believe
nonetheless that a vote to confirm
would be in your overall best in-
terests and in keeping with the con-
servative tradition you have followed
as representative of the people of the
Commonwealth.

CON

By Leigh Brown

 

 

On July 1, 1987, President Ronald
Reagan nominated Judge Robert H.
Bork to the Supreme Court to replace
the vacancy left by retired Justice
Lewis F. Powell Jr. His background
includes a variety of important and
influential positions: a solicitor
general under President Nixon, a
professor at the Yale University Law
School, an antitrust lawyer, and most
recently a judge on the U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia. Bork first gained notorie-
ty as solicitor general for his involve-
ment in the “Saturday Night
Massacre”’ in which he fired special
prosecutor Archibald Cox, following
the disimissals of Attorney General
Elliot L. Richardson and Deputy At-
torney General William D.
Ruckelshaus. Although Bork had of-
ferred to resign, these two men urged

 

him to remain in order to “protect
the integrity of Justice Department
operations.”

This support has led many to ques-
tion the influence it had over
Reagan’s decision to nominate Bork.
President Reagan, however, has
cited that Bork is of ‘superior in-
tellect, high moral character, and a
champion of individual freedom.”’
According to one Bork supporter;
“Bork is . . . right out of Ronald
Reagan’s ideology.’’ This seems like
the strongest case for Reagan’s deci-
sion, since it is also clear that the
President would want to leave a
lasting impression on the Court with
a strong conservative justice. Fur-
thermore, if confirmed, many see
Bork as the deciding and_all-
important fifth vote, thus influencing
the Court in a conservative direciton.
In which case, Reagan hopes to fulfill
certain “goals” through the Court
which have heretofore been blocked
by Congress.

An important factor in considering
Bork’s confirmation is the influence
he will have on the Court. The
possibility of his being the deciding
fifth vote has caused many special in-
terests groups to state their views.
Ralph G. Neas, the executive direc-
tor of the Leadership Conference on
Civil Rights, claims that the Senate
may never cast a ‘‘more important,
far reaching vote,’’ and agrees with
Mr. Bejamin Hooks, the Chairperson
of the same organization, who claims
that Bork will ‘alter the balance of
the Court,” thus ‘‘jeopardizing civil
rights achievements for the past
three decades.’’ Opponents see Bork
as a strict interpretational judge of
the Constitution, while Bork sup-
porters contend he is “in the
mainstream of accepted legal
reasoning.”

There is, however, great concern
and dispute over his views regarding
such issues as civil rights, women’s
rights, right to privacy, abortion, the
death penalty, the First Amendment,
antitrust laws, and his regard for
precedent and original intent. These
views were devloped in his writings
and teachings from the 1960s up
through the present. For instance,
according to a report arranged by the
Chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, Joseph Biden (D-NJ), it
appears that Bork has ‘‘opposed vir-
tually every major civil rights ad-

 

vance on which he has taken a posi
i... In his views about women’s
rights, he had once stated that the
Fourteenth Amendment applied on!)
to ‘racial and ethnic groups.”

Another concern for the Senate is
Bork’s denouncement of several past
decisions of the Court, such as Roe
vs. Wade, which legalized abortion
“‘nationwide,’’ for he may choose to
overrule them once upon the bench
Judge Bork, however, claims that he
has ‘‘no desire to disturb the body of
law _already....settled.”” Yet his
equally high regard for original in
tent frightens others as well. For ex
ample, he argues that the ‘‘death
penalty is specifically referred to
and assumed to be an available
penalty in the Constitution itself. . .’
and that “the framers explicitly [it|
to be available,’ but is now
“unavailable by the very Constitu
tion the framers wrote.”

The Senate should also consider the
possibility of what Senator Specter
(R-PA) refers to as ‘pronounced
shifts’ from his writings and
teachings as a law professor, and the
views he claims to hold now. While he
asserts that his views as a professor
were more radical and no longer
believed, he also stated in a 1986
radio interview, ‘“Teaching is very
much like being a judge and you ap
proach the Constitution the same
way.”

Should the Senate reject Judge
Bork following this confirmation
hearing, President Reagan will most
likely nominate another candidate
just as conservative as_ Bork,
recognizing the fact that a repetition
of such an analysis as has been made
on Bork will not occur. Furthermore,
this second nomination should pass,
and with more speed. A_ possible
nominee might be Senator Orrin
Hatch of Utah, whose name was also
brought up prior to Bork’s official
nomination. Yet, along with the
special interests groups, many in-
dividuals fear the confirmation of
Bork, as has been shown in the polls,
due to his past views and the in-
security they feel with his new ones
For these reasons, the Senate will not
confirm the nomination in the in
terests of the people and of the Court,
and I also advise you, Senator
DeConcini, to do the same.

: ® ® bi cy
%, moa Me vy f
| | : Physicist to speak on astronomy
Ts 4 yisiting professor, at Caltech,Cam- and star formation, the behavior of
: R O ot r e S on d S t O W at S on ’ S M Vi ew Staff Reports bridge University, and the Institute magnetic fields in space, and the
* : for Advanced Study. He was twice astrophysical implications of cosmic
ie p y eau oe et oe Phillips Visitor at Haveford College. _ strings. He is the co-author of The In-
i Astronomy at Harvard U oo vv Field’s research is concerned with _ visible Universe and Cosmic Evolution:
Hw To the Editors, that was introduced and adopted by members of ots coh or physicist at on 5 an the dynamics of interstellar and in-
pen ar : the student body. While it is my hope that neither sonian hairoohweiont Fae cous ~ tergalactic matter, including galaxy See Speech, page 9
‘ In last week’s Ring tum Phi, Mr. Watson the Ring tum Phi or any member of the student will aia tale neiaies os Wadia “id ' nee
origi presented us with his view of the autonomy, or body will violate this sanction, nowhere does it ‘ma :. University Th we eee painted ont came ak
| Een eon iy opi, Seat amen remrte | 8 Ost Ts. OP AN A i na
lons. While 1 sincerely applaud his etforts, right to revoke allocated funds to any organiza- aries ‘i —— dH ° B.
ef ee ee a tien for breaking the code of confidentiality, This oe ppg tli. nae Sg ee ee head:
bg member 0! e Executive Committee i wo is dealt with on an individual basis. 28 zpodd = Ee i e. 3
% ao sar a ca out oe For over two weeks now the Executive Com- See rae on ion = () Continued from page 2 Sacecan arias teneeen tors
; that the EC oe ithe right to sevtles tin Phi’s pred eee io pees ie pels ea Room 327 of the Commerce School, alleys. He usually drinks to excess, it so I don’t have to look at forma!
' allocated funds if it should print anything about R oo Committ sear Camanities | followed by a wine and cheese recep- _and late in the evening throws up into apology. There should be great con
an open or closed trial. t ag stand ae 4 ae bli c pa tion at the W&L Alumni House. Both a bucket before passing out. The use cern among the student body about
The purpose of Section O is twofold. First, it c Scaluiaa weavaie anata edgation o oe lectures are open to the public. of this phrase to describe a person the possible implications of this
. protects the rights of the accused and any We Sih centlins te pone: ‘ eae for A fellow of the American Physical usually ceases when one turns 15- display. There is a chance apes, and
eal witnesses in a closed trial in which the accused is andthes severe! weeks sane ‘ creas will Society, Field is a recipient of years-old; however, rednecks, urban T-shirts which run against every
mh acquitted. Secondly, Section O helps to preserve be made, I strong! ree ba bie NASA’s Public Service Medal, as cowboys, and plumbers use it foren- stream of acceptable social mores
iba the selection of an impartial jury in the event of t ae t : oe ‘ eons Ta pw : well as the Certificate of Award for _ tire lifetimes. The second shirt reads, and conduct. I just hope that this is
_ an open trial. Contrary to Mr. Watson's sugges- : em ar ag ee Gana oe Exceptional Services and the Joseph “‘Partied Animal’’ — my guess is that not some type of Communist subplot
ites tion that Section O seems to be an idea trickled System, it is our Honor System — the student Henry Medal, both of the Smithso- it is the aftermath of being a ‘party _ or some weird trash like that. In con
ibis down from the administration, it is more ac- body’s Sanah System. nian Institution. : animal.” “Party Animal” is not a clusion some wisdom from the
eh curately a Procedure for Honor System Hear- Sincerel Field served as director of the term used by college students, at renowned Hindu pseudophilospher
b - ings by the Executive Committee of the Student Bard B Rost eae tore Center = least not the intelligent ones; Link Yutang: ‘Wives can be trained
aie Body (see part III on page 6 of the White Book) : a ophysics from 1973 to 1982. He however, it is used by a class of peo- to tolerate their husbands’ smoking
sits 3 ' - PURMOEH of the Sameuere CemmnnEe has taught at Princeton, the Univer- ple characterized by flared sideburns in bed. That’s the surest sign of a
néit sity of California at Berkeley, and,as and orange Chevy's with a “01” happy andsuccessful marriage.”

 

 

  

   
 
 

_ see ai GA RR a NR AAO ti
Interviews by
* Cathy Boardman

Photos by
Perry Hayes

 

 

_ :

=
>
a)
>
°
a)
5
o
®
2.
°
2
®
aie
S
©
9)
@
®
°
°
5
a
©
°
5
=
=
>
®
©
=
6
oS
9
one
c
5
°
>
~

 

 

Ke

i oh, - : 7 */ 7
“s ri Uk
4

“a *

2 cm nem:

* =

-

.

 

» .
A

*

 

 

ee A a Mt ee mt maa
< %

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mike Nunan, sophomore ‘‘If someon:
wants some good food, it’s worth th
drive to UVA or something.”’

‘More efficient
is needed so
to wait in two

“Pyt Gail at Amy Pickett, junior
ethod of paying
students don’t need

lines.”’

Mike
woman’s problem, and a woman’s
place is in the Co-op.”

Dave Reavy, junior ‘I don’t really
think there’s a problem with it, I
don’t know.”

Neers, “ath @

i Alston Parker, junior ‘‘Get a shuttle
1 bus to Wendy’s.”’

sophomore Valerie Pierson, junior

the cash register.”’

 

 

<b iniehdinmenrermemmetingmerses $a eer ee =

 

¢ 7 nee eRe Are “ 7 - ~ WIS W Es Sener heme ee pce aA maT tee: a i ar wean mat bole © ae
  

aad

 

ety

  

 

 

 

 

Candidates vie for 1987 Homecoming Queen title

 

Organization: Alpha Phi Omega Organization: Beta Theta Pi Organization: Chi Psi

Candidate: Dorothy Lousie Mills Candidate: Tris Berryman Candidate: Kristin Elizabeth Teer
School; W&L '89 School: Hollins '88 School: Southern Sem ’91

Escort: John Deighan Escort: Sandy Harrison

Escort: Greg Castronuovo

 

Organization: Kappa Alpha Organization: Kappa Sigma Organization: Lambda Chi Alpha
Candidate: Louise Sewell Candidate: Shannon Bos Candidate: Denise Elizabeth Phillips
School: Hollins ’90 School: Hollins ’88 School: Hollins '89

Escort: Dudley W. Lee Escort: Mark Newman Escort: Dirk van Assendelft

 

    

 

 

ganization: Phi Delta Theta Organization: PhiGamma Delta Organization: Phi Kappa Psi
‘andidate: Catherine Christian Candidate: Dana Anstine Candidate: Mary Heyward Stevens
chool: W&L’89 School: W&L ’89 School: Hollins 89

scort: Reese Lanier Escort: Stu Funkhouser Escort: Frampton Harper

 

 

 

 

zanization: Pi Kappa Alpha Organization: Pi Kapppa Phi Organization: Sigma Alpha Epsilon
ndidate: Melinda Koun Candidate: Mary Allison Halliday Candidate: Tracey Lynn Locke
1001: RMWC 90 School: Sweet Briar ’88 : School: Hollins '89

cort: Ned Spencer Escort: Brad Shaw Escort: Mike Henry

 

 

 

inization: Sigma Nu Organization: Sigma Phi Epsilon Organization: Zeta Beta Tau
date: Heather Rochelle Bugs Candidate: Mary Austin Dardon Candidate: Jane Whitehurst Huntley
1: Sweet Briar '91 School: RMWC ’89 School: Univ. of Richmond ’88

ort: Jon Davia Solomon Escort: Nick Woodfield Escort: William Thornton

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987

RPE Reg ENT erie:

 

Organization: Delta Tau Delta
Candidate: Beth Cousland
School: W&L ’89

Escort: Dean Barry

 

Organization: Minority Student

Association

Candidate: Robin D. Bean

School: W&L ’89
Escort: Dana Bolden

 

Organization: Phi Kappa Sigma
Candidate: Ellen Wise Fleming
School: RMWC ’88

Escort: Sean Cambell

 

 

 

 

 

Organization: Sigma Chi
Candiate Marina Ann Kit
School: Hollins ’89
Escort: Eric Joseph

 

Big moment

Dr. Shillington crowns last year’s Homecoming
Queen Colleen Bradley.

 

FS ee Fee EE A A nana neee cnn emer menreepeeneneeeens —_ - al a

  

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987, Page 5

 

‘Student activity groups receive budget cuts from EC

 

"By John Starks
+ Staff Reporter

 

Using the $100 activities fee levied
» on each W&L student, the EC

allocated $139,650 to 21 student
* organizations last week.

That figure was reached after the
budget hearings last Wednesday
+ night at which student groups re-
‘ quested funds.

+

+ This being a Mock Convention
, year, the spread between EC alloca-
tions and organization expectations
« was wider than in previous years.
No group received all that it sought
*and only a few have minimal dif-
,ferences between their requested and
apportionments.
* As the EC “budget director’, Vice-
.President Pat Schaefer said, ‘It’s
Mock Convention year...Student
*groups need to cut back a little...to
Bet the Convention (rolling) The

eyes of the country are on Lexington
for two days.”

But other groups “understand the
crunch” caused by Mock Conven-
tion’s needs according to David
Grove, who spoke for the SAB

The SAB topped the EC budget for
both requests and allocations, seek-
ing $57,700 and getting $42,000.

SAB chairman Sean Coyle said
they really expected to get $48,000
since it would have been only $2,000
more than last year. But he added,
“‘We’re happy with the $42,000.”’

Schaefer said that SAB will just
have to cut out a couple of weekends
and not spend so much on the year’s
big concerts.

EC rep Powell Starks suggested
higher ticket prices for entertain-
ment. Grove replied that that had
already been done.

Coyle emphasized that the SAB has
received suggestions to diversify the
kinds of music played by the bands

they hire. In order to take risks with
jazz and folk concerts, he said, ‘“The
extra $6,000 would have been very
helpful.”

Coyle is confident that SAB ‘‘won’t
go over budget’’ since they plan to
have better bands that cost less
money per concert.

Another group affected by EC cut-
backs was Trident.

The women requested $2,100, but
received only $500.

Schaefer explained, ‘‘Larger
organizations like Trident have more
members than most of the groups
that need EC funds, so they have
more potential for other means of
fund raising.”

Trident president, Alston Parker,
replied, “Larger membership means
larger costs.”’

Schaefer added that most of the
Trident budget was for social events
which the EC will not fund, in accor-
dance with past EC policy.

‘Co-op congestion confounds

 

*By Heidi Read
, Staff Reporter

 

+ “Get rid of the Party Animal
stuff,”’ is junior, Tom Moore’s solu-
tion to the co-op space dilemma.

« Some students expressed the need
for a bigger building while others like

*junior, Nancy Whalen said, “I can’t

«See the space for it [a bigger co-op].
It’s more of a luxury than a necessi-

*ty.”’ Senior John Coll thinks ‘‘it’s kind

» of quaint the way it is.”’

These student comments were
“sparked by a petition in the Co-op for
, a bigger facility.

The petition was put up by junior
“Meredith Walker to aid University
, Food Services director Gerald Dar-

“ rell in effort to find out the level of

» student interest for a bigger co-op.

, W&L administrator Frank Parsons
said that at this point there is no solu-

«tion to the Co-op delimma, but hopes
to review some plans for action this

"November.

He recognizes the imminence of
*the situation, and said the Co-op is on
,the University’s priority list.

Whether it be a remodeling or a new

‘building, Parsons hopes to keep the

,Co-op in its central location ‘‘just a
hop, skip, and a jump from classes

‘and the dorms.”

He added, ‘‘it’s a complicated issue

and there is no quick fix to it.”

* As is, the situation is a traffic jam

,during the lunch rush between 11

a.m. and 2 p.m. Although the Co-op is
doing good business with a figure of
about $850 for lunch, students must
contend with long lines, few or no
empty seats, and slow service.

The seating situation is easily solv-
ed in the warm months of September
and spring term, but what to do in the
winter?

“In the winter the Co-op is more
crowded and people that normally sit
in ODK circle move inside. They
don’t necessarily eat, but just hang
out before class and get something to
drink,” said Walker.

The greater influx of students is
also the result of the cheaper prices
at the co-op as opposed to the Dining
Hall.

“Students that don’t want a full
meal from the dining hall eat in the
Co-op. It’s quicker, less expensive
and they can order what they want,
instead of having to eat a whole
meal,’’ commented senior Chris
Gareis.

Because of its central location, the
Co-op gets more business than the
GHQ or the dining hall. Students pass
by on their way to and from class and
from the dorms. With Gaines Hall
finished, even more traffic passes by
the Co-op, adding to its congestion.

Snack bar ichard Arm-
strong said that-the point card is the
major cause of the co-op’s iggrease in
business.

Since college students are always
short on cash, all they need to do is

Se

pull out their ‘blue card’ ana the
cashier crosses off the points. No
cash needed, for the point card can
be charged home.

“Tf W&L students can charge
anything home, they will,” said
Whalen.

Armstrong added that he would
like to see a new and bigger co-op
with increased seating space and a
larger selection of items, somewhat
like a convenience store on campus.
However, he added that the Snack
Bar stuff was ‘‘doing their best to get
the food out, and the students need to
have patience and try to understand
the situation.”

Some students felt that co-
education was one of the reasons for
the busier Co-op — a kind of social
outlet during the week, a place
students could go to take a study
break and know they’d see their
friends there.

As Coll put it, the result of co-
education at the Co-op is that ‘they
sell more chicken salad platters.”

What is the solution to the Co-op
problem? None of the students inter-
viewed seemed to have a solution,
but some possibilities may be tearing
down the building and starting new,
or remodeling the existing facility
with additions.

One of Parsons’ ideas conceived a
whole new. building directly. across
from the outside bookstore entrance;
across the parking lot from the C-
school. The building would be built on
a slope like the library.

 

 

*W&L’s first married undergrads, Craig and Carolyn Garneau.

‘W&L couple adapts to marriage

 

.
By Stephanie Guittard
+ Staff Reporter

 

Mr. and Mrs. Craig Garneau are
* W&L’s first undergraduate couple.
They are the ones that get pointed
out to new students as “‘the ones who
” , are married.”
There have been previous married
* students, but those women had
, transfered in, and Carolyn Garneau
has been at W&L since her freshman
» year.
This made them the university’s
* first “‘real’’ espoused pair. Craig is a
senior and Carolyn is junior.

Mrs. Garneau, formerly Carolyn
» Arbogast, was a freshman when she
met Craig at a party her roommate
gave for the swim team.

She said she did not remember
“meeting him, but does remember
wanting to see him two weeks later at
another party.

Their first date was Jan. 25, 1986,
and they were engaged twenty-six
days later. On Aug. 1, 1987, they were
married

‘We had originally planned on get-
ting married after, at least, I
graduated but if you get engaged,
generally you want to get married.
And we had the ability, we could pay
for it. Might as well do what you want
once ina while,” Craig explained.

Carolyn expressed that their
, parents were very supportive. “They

’

°

were in favor of it; they saw nothing
wrong with it.’’

The Garneaus found that their
friends reacted very strongly to their
engagement, though.

“It was about half and half,”’ Craig
explained. “‘Some people were just,
‘What are you doing? You're ruining
your life, you idiot!’ And other peo-
ple, ‘‘Oh, I’m so happy for you!”’

Life has not changed too much
socially for the Garneaus since their
marriage, especially for Carolyn,
having been engaged since her sixth
month of her freshman year.

“It’s not so much that [our social
life] has changed since we’ve gotten
married, it changed mostly when we
got engaged,”’ Carolyn said.

“We don’t go down the road a
whole lot, but we’re both fairly busy,
so we don’t do a lot that’s spon-
taneous anyway. It’s a little bit of a
change,’’ admitted Craig.

He added that occasionally they
are excluded because they are not
single, but not often enough to make
a difference.

Reactions by those other than the
Garneau’s close friends has been
amusing at times.

“It was more the freshmen coming
in this year,’’ Carolyn explained.
“There'd be some guys at our
friends’ house, and they’d say
something, and all of a sudden it
would occur to them, and, ‘You're
married? Oh, I’ve heard about
you!’ ”’

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Craig added, ‘‘We’ll be serving in
the D-hall, and someone’ll say, ‘I'll
have the peas, and, you’re the one
who’s married!’ Yes, anything
else?”’

The couple has at least the next few
years planned, as Craig will grad-
uate in the spring.

“T plan to go to graduate school,
and she plans to finish up at W&L
next fall and then go and get her
teaching certificate where ever it is I
am, or close to that, so she’ll be able
to graduate with her class. We’ll pro-
bably only be apart for three months
or so,”’ Craig commented.

Carolyn will transfer in twelve
credits for winter and spring term in
order to receive her diploma at W&L.

If Craig goes to UVA, she’ll go to
Mary Baldwin. If he goes to Harvard,
she’ll go to Bates College in Maine.
At any rate, she had planned to spend
that time somewhere else, because
W&L does not offer teaching cer-
tificates.

Craig is in the ROTC program and
has applied for the reserves so he will
be able to attend graduate school
while fulfilling his obligation to the
Army

If he does not get into the Reserves,
he will have to live on a base, but
chances are that Carolyn will be able
to be with him

Craig and Carolyn Garneau’s life
as married undergraduates is flour-
ishing, and, as Craig put it, ‘I recom-
mend it!”

Parker noted that Trident did
“400% better than last year’’ when it
received $100. In general, the women
are pleased with the allocation

The Ring-tum Phi asked for $18,000
to cover the costs of computers the
paper needs to buy, but only received
$16,000.

Business Manager Rhona Hughes
said that the Phi will need the other
$2,000 which she hopes can be ac-
quired with ‘‘better advertising and
more subscriptions.’, Yet she also
said, “Compared to what other
organizations got, I’m happy with
(the allocation).”’

Three student journals appealed to
the committee for funding: The Jour-
nal of Science, the Ariel, and the
Political Review.

Each increased its requests from
last year to accomodate an addi-
tional issue.

Starks asked those in charge of
these journals if they were aware of

the many potential sources of funds
for such works. He and other EC
members suggested that they check
the Development Office for lists of
potential donors.

The EC agreed to fund the costs of
one edition of each student journal.

The Minority Student Association,
the International Club, and the In-
dependent Union received less than
their requests primarily because of
the EC policy on social funding.
Receiving $700, $600, and $600,
respectively, they fell well short of
their initial requests of $5,700, $1,680,
and $1,100.

Schaefer expressed sympathy for
these “‘small groups that don’t have
the fund raising capacities of larger
organizations.”

Eight athletic clubs made appeals
to the EC and many were seeking to
expand due to increasing student in-
terest.

“It’s just on the year for expan-

sion,’ said Schaefer, citing Mock
Convention’s draw on the EC
treasury as a major reason.

He also asked about the possibility
of some support for these clubs from
the Athletic Department.

Overall, Schaefer and the rest of
the EC expressed to all student
organizations ‘‘the need to find
sources other than EC.”’

“There is only so much money to
go around and we didn’t want to raise
the student tax,’’ declared Schaefer.

He added, ‘‘We gave the budget a
lot of thought. It wasn’t a rush pro-
cess.”

The EC heard requests from 6:30 to
11:15 p.m. Wednesday night, and
deliberated until 2:00 a.m. Thursday
morning.

Now with the budget established,
the EC begins the weightier task of
holding to it, for a usual, many stu-
dent organizations will return
throughout the year to appeal for
more money.

 

a a ee Paka A BE PEELE CEs %

 

Students fight the crowd at the Co-op.

PARENTS

ALUMNI

File Photo

Stay informed of what’s going on
at Washington & Lee!

Subscribe to
The Ring-tum Phi!

Washington and Lee’s Student Newspaper

 

Peers eee eee eee eee eee,

; Please start my subscription to The Ring-tum&
g Phi immediately. Enclosed is a $25 check or,

— money order for a year’s worth of The Ring-tum §

: Phi to be delivered to the following address:

é
gName: ie

gnceress: oe

Un a 0 Oe OO

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987

 

Beer sales down,
hard liquor up

 

By Abb Jones
Staff Reporter

 

Drinking beer is probably one of
the most popular activities at the na-
tion’s colleges. Ask any student,
watch any movie, and it will only
reinforce the sentiment that beer
drinking in college is practically a
way of life.

Or is it? According to Miles Nye,
owner of Kelly’s Corner, a local
establishment popular among W&L
students for its sale of beer kegs,
beer consumption has dropped con-
siderably — possibly as much as 50
percent.

Nye, who sells beer to 13 of W&L’s
17 fraternities, said that whereas last
year he sold 432 kegs of Busch beer in
the month of September, he sold only
256 kegs this month. He says that the
1,103 kegs of Busch he’s sold this year
is down considerably from the
average. (Busch is by far the most
popular choice of beer because of the
price and availability, according to
Nye, who added that he does a ‘‘spat-
tering of business’’ on such brands as
Budweiser, Old Milwaukee and
Coors.

“Washington and Lee students]
are not drinking nearly as much as
they have in the past,” he said.

Although Nye attributes some of

the drop in sales to the change in the
state drinking age to 21, he says most
of the drop in beer consumption is
due to an increase in University
restrictions on social functions.

“The school seems to regulate par-
ties a lot more,” said Nye. ‘“‘Wednes-
day night parties used to be as big as
weekend parties but not anymore.”

Nye added that ‘‘a fair amount”’ of
people are now purchasing beer in
small quantities, such as 6 or 12-
packs, which has also resulted in
fewer keg purchases. But Nye said
that he has seen an even larger in-
crease in the sales of hard liquor —an
increase which he calls ‘“‘much more
dangerous.”’

“Young freshmen who aren’t used
to drinking can’t handle the hard
stuff like grain,’ said Nye, who says
that kegs are much safer.

“They should ban the use of liquor,
not beer kegs,”’ said Nye. ‘You can’t
take kegs down the road. When you
serve beer from kegs the party stays
in one place — not on the road.”’

Diane Potter, manager of Stop-In,
a convenience store that sells beer in
six and 12-packs, said that W&L
students make up a lot of their
business.

 

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

Students party in the Cockpit before the new drinking laws went into effect. B
reportedly dropped since that time. . oe

“A lot of our business is by W&L beer kegs, during last year’s frater-

down stairs and getting hit by cars. It
students,” she said. ‘‘A big percent of _ nity rush was a mistake.

was terrible.” than try to restrict them into drink-

nities to serve beer at parties, rather

it.”

Nye said the W&L Inter-Fraternity
Council’s ban of alcohol, including

Big Brother Sister program grows

 

By Cheryl Bowles
Staff Reporter

 

The number of students involved in
W&L’s Big Brother/ Big Sister pro-
gram has increased greatly this
year.

The program pairs W&L students
with Lexington area children, pro-
viding them with attention and com-
panionship they cannot always get at
home.

Garrett Moseley and Melissa
Thrasher, the students in charge of
the program, say this year more than
35 students applied to be a big
brother or a big sister. Moseley, a
senior, says that he has never seen
such a large response from students
in his four years of involvement with
the program. Moseley and Thrasher
are still in the process of matching up
students with kids.

The Big Brother/Big Sister pro-
gram receives a budget from the
university, which is used for the an-
nual Christmas party and other ma-
jor group activities.

Thrasher maintains that the pro-

gram operates mainly on an in-
dividual basis, where the pair can do
its favorite things together.

The program is part of the Univer-
sity Federation, which also sponsors
a candlelight service at Christmas in
the Robert E. Lee Episcopal Church
for the Lexington community.

Moseley and Thrasher think stu-
dents get involved with the program
to make W&L students visible as ac-
tive members of the Lexington com-
munity.

“It’s a way of showing W&L in
more of a communal, volunteer at-
mosphere,”’ said Moseley. Thrasher
added, “It’s a positive way of
representing W&L to the communi-
yy,”

In addition to being fun, the pro-
gram gives students a greater sense
of appreciation and giving.

“It’s really neat when W&L
students realize how fortunate they
are and are willing to give something
to somebody else,’’ said Moseley.
Laughing, he added, ‘‘It teaches you
if you want to have kids or not!”’

Thrasher said, ‘there are a lot
more kids in Lexington than people

think.’’

All children crave attention, and
the Big Brother/Big Sister program
provides them special relationships
with people who want to give atten-
tion.

Five schools in the Lexington area
provide the program with kids who
are either recommended by a
guidance counselor or have voiced in-
terest themselves.

‘When you're little, you’re
honest,”’ said Moseley. Thrasher’s
little sister Ceon said, “‘My mother
asked me if I wanted one [big sister],
and I said yes.”’ She said that a lot of
her friends have big sisters, too.

Last year the group went to King’s

Dominion, which Ceon thought was

the best thing they did last year.
Thrasher said that the trip was a
total success.

Entertaining a child is not difficult.
Ceon said that her favorite thing to do
with Melissa is to go out to eat at the
Golden Corral.

The Big Brother/Big Sister pro-
gram at W&L is successful as well as
rewarding to both the big and the lit-
tle participants.

 

 

Is it done yet?

The as yet uncompleted gatehouse in the yet uncompleted Gaines Residence Hall. The building cur-
rently houses about 195 law and undergraduate students.

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

“Afterwards, they had a large
number of people in the hospital due
to alcohol poisioning, people falling

Nye said that, while his main goal
is, of course, to sell beer, he honestly
believes it is safer to allow frater-

ing hard alchohol.

Nye added that 99 percent of
his Busch beer keg business is
from W&L students.

 

 

 

Scott Stimpson (L) instructs Scott Robertson in Karate.

Law student teaches Karate

 

By Francis Coryell
Staff Reporter

 

Every Monday and Wednesday,
the Doremus Gym is turned into a do-
jo for the Shorin-Ryu karate class.

The class is open to anyone who
wishes to participate. The class has
currently 9 law students and 7
undergrads.

There is a $30 fee each semester,
plus all students are required to have
fighting equipment, mouthpieces,
and cups, all of which can be pur-
chased through the class.

Scott Stimpson, a 2nd year law stu-
dent, is the instructor for the class.

Stimpson started taking karate
four years ago at Butch Marino’s
Shorin-Ryu Karate Institute at the
University of Maine. He became a
black belt in three years and has ex-
perience teaching at the University
of Maine and in Connecticut.

Last year Stimpson started teach-
ing here during the winter semester.

“T didn’t want to get away from
karate. Teaching helps’ me
remember what I need to remem-
ber,” said Stimpson.

The class lasts up to 2 hours. The
first thirty to forty-five minutes are
used for stretching and calisthenics,

Young Democrats membership increased

 

By James Midkiff
Staff Reporter

 

The Young Democrats started off
the year with a bang, swelling the
ranks of the club sevenfold after their
first meeting.

Kristi Goodman, president of the
young Democrats, said that she ‘“‘was
shocked by the enthusiasm at the
irst meeting.”

The increased interest in the
Young Democrats on a campus
iistorically dominated by the College

Republicans organization may be an
indication of a more diverse student
body, according to Goodman.

The Young Democrats currently
have about 35 members, up from last
year’s membership of five.

The College Republicans, on the
other hand, currently have between
40 and 50 dues-paying members sign-
ed up, according to Greg Dale, the
chairman of the organization

Dale says close to 200 people have
expressed an interest in his organiza-
tion, but he estimates that the actual

uumber of dues-paying members will
be closer to 100.

Both Goodman and Dale think that
a stronger Young Democrats
organization will help stimulate
political debate on campus.

Goodman says that the Young
Democrats will work to get rid of
apathy on campus through a variety
of activities, including three fund-
raising projects as well as communi-
ty service projects. The group also
plans to sponsor Democratic
speakers.

Goodman and Dale hope that the
two clubs can work together on some

projects, perhaps debating political
issues from their respective view-
points publicly or in print.

The officers of the Young
Democrats are; Kristi Goodman,
president, Nancy Hickam, vice presi-
dent, Paula Owsley, secretary and
Bob Martin, treasurer.

The organization is independently
financed by fund-raising projects

and the $15 each member pays
as dues. ‘I'he Young Democrats

will try to meet every two weeks,
with the next meeting scheduled
for Oct. 15

which include pushups, situps and leg
raises.

Usually the repetitions in one of the
exercises are extended each class.

The stretching is not the easiest
thing to do. Since flexibility is the key
to many of the manuevers needed in
karate, the cry, “‘stretch til it hurts.
Does it hurt yet?!’ is often heard
from Stimpson.

The Monday night class is for
katas. Katas are a series of techni-
ques created by the masters in order
that one may be able to practice
alone.

For a student to move up from a
white to a yellow belt, he must pass
basics, which cover stances, turns,
blocks and punces, and three katas.

Also, to move up in rank, it’s up to
the instructor’s discretion whether or

APO serves

By Alice Harrell
Staff Reporter

 

 

Alpha Phi Omega is a service
fraternity through which Washington
and Lee students provide volunteer
service to Lexington and surrounding
communities.

The members of this fraternity are
part of a unique organization
dedicated to helping other local
organizations through various pro-
jects and services.

Some of the local associations that
have benefited from APO’s help in
the past are the Boys’ Club, the Lin-
coln House and Rockbridge Regional
Library. The Lincoln House, a men-
tal health care center, received some
help from APO volunteers last week
in chopping firewood.

Other members of APO stacked
books at the Rockbridge Regional
Library. Last year APO members
provided tutoring, interior painting
and a pinball machine to the local
Boys’ Club.

Rather than having a set, planned
agenda of projects, APO just takes
them as they come. ‘We try to re-
main flexible,’ said Vice President
John Deighan.

 

:

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

not a student has obtained enough
fighting experience.

The fighting takes place on
Wednesday. Contact during the
fighting increases as rank increases.
Often a fight is interrupted by Stimp-
son to give instruction to the fighters.

For the yellow belts, contact is
allowed to the body but not to the
head. All the fighers are intense, but
no one attempts to hurt a dojo
brother.

Ted Madara, the highest ranking
student in the class, took fifth at the
yellow belt level as a white belt last
year ina local tournament.

When what asked he enjoys the
most, he replies, ‘The intensity and

C) See Karate, page 9

community

“We contact people in the com-
munity and let them know who we
are...and if they have something (a
project) along our lines, we’ll help
them out,’’ said Dean Nuckols, Presi-
dent of APO.

The service fraternity keeps a
calender of planned social events and
a few set dates for special service oc-
casions. One such special event is the
Adolescent Day Program, planned
for October 24. When a school for the
mentally retarded will have its in-
terior walls painted by some APO
brothers.

Not everyone may have been
familiar with APO last year, since
the fraternity was still in its early
stages.

APO spent much of last year peti-
tioning for a charter, and became an
official school organization this year.

Response to the group has improv-
ed considerably as compared to last
year. This is, in part, ‘because we’re

a little more organized,’ says
Deigan.
APO presently has ten active

members. About fifteen students will
pledge on October 15. The organiza-
tion has two women members. One of
the women, Dorothy Mills, serves as
Vice President of Membership this
year.

~ ~ ~- . = =
 

 

..Professor Krzsylof Jasiewicz.

 

 

Photo by Chris Leiphart

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987, Page 7

Polish professor adjusts to W&L

 

By McLaurin Hill
Staff Reporter

 

There’s a visiting teacher at W&L
this year: Krzsylof Jasiewicz from
Warsaw, Poland.

He is teaching three courses this
term — Special Topics in Sociology:
Social Movements in Poland,
Eastern European Politics and Socie-
ty, and Social Theory.

He came to the United States ‘‘to
complete my research in the field of
political culture. Because of some
economic constraints in Poland, the
most recent works are not
available.”

He came to W&L after doing re-
search in the field of political culture
at Harvard and teaching during the
summer session there as well. He has
also done many guest lectures during
his fourteen months in the United
States, including Yale, Columbia,
UNC at Chapel Hill, and the Universi-
ty of Kentucky.

Before he came to the U.S. he did
research and taught at the Polish
Academy of Science since he

graduated from the University of
Warsaw in 1972 receiving his M.A.
Degree.

Jasiewicz says there are major dif-
ferences between the Polish system
he said: “The students come to the
University when they are nineteen or
twenty with a very good background
in general education. So, they come
and usually spend five years. There
is no B.A. so they graduate with a MA
or a MS Degree.

The curriculum is somewhere in
between undergraduate and
graduate. The expectations of the
students are different. I taught
Students that would write their MA
thesis the same year, or within a
year. The classes in Poland are
designed a specific way: a formal
lecture, not any time for questions,
and a post-seminar discussion group
to discuss some issues or some
readings.”

When asked about W&L, he said, “‘I
very much like W&L. I believe that
the way W&L is arranged is probably
the most productive for the students,
the size of the school, the size of the

classes. The students can profit from
the professors in such an institution.”

About the students here, he said,
“They are very good students. I
would be happy if my students were
less shy and more active in class.

“They have a legitimate right to
question what the professor is say-
ing. Not only at W&L, the
undergraduates could be more active
and put more pressure on the pro-
fessor. This system gives the pro-
fessor a chance to get feed-back from
the students. That’s why I expect the
students to be more active and less
shy in classes.”

The students at W&L think Pro-
fessor Jasiewicz is an excellent
teacher.

‘“‘He’s always prepared. The class
requires us to do the reading. It’s a
good class, really informative,” said
Andrew Hart who is taking East
European Politics and Society.

According to Hart, the class is
usually divided into one third in-
troduction of a subject and two thirds
discussion.

Another member of the East Euro-

‘Circuit judge to lecture on affirmative action

’

 

From Staff Reports

 

Circuit Judge Harry T. Edwards of
the U.S. court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia will deliver the
annual John Randolph Tucker Lec-
ture Friday, Oct. 9. The lecture will
be at 12:10 p.m. in the Moot Court-
room of Lewis Hall and is open to the
public.

Edwards will speak on ‘“‘Affir-
‘mative Action in Employment—The
Continuing Dilemma Over Statutory
and Constitutional Limitations.”

Edwards graduated from Cornell
University in 1962 and the University
of Michigan Law School in 1965,
where he was a member of Law
Review and the Order of the Coif.
Between 1965 and 1970, he was an
associate with the Chicago law firm
of Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather &
Geraldson.

Edwards was a professor of law at
the University of Michigan Law
School from 1970-1975 and again from

1977-1980, where he taught courses in
labor law and higher education law.
From 1975-77, he was a professor of
law at Harvard Law School. He also
served as a visiting professor of law
at the Program for International
Legal Cooperation at the University
of Brussels in 1974. Between 1970 and
1980 he served part time as a labor
arbitrator.

Edwards was appointed to the U.S.
court of Appeals in 1980.

President Ford and Carter ap-
pointed Edwards to serve on the In-
ternational Women’s Year Commis-
sion where he chaired the Rules and
Credentials Committees. In 1977 he
was appointed by President Carter to
serve on the Board of Directors of
Amtrack. He was elected chairman
of the Amtrak board in 1979.

Edwards has written many articles

on labor and higher education law
and has co-authored four legal

casebooks. In 1978, he was awarded
the Judge William B. Groat Alumni
Award by the School of Industrial
and Labor Relations at Cornell
University.

The John Randolph Tucker Lec-
ture Series was established by the
W&L board of trustees in honor and
memory of the distinguished service
of Tucker who served as dean and
professor of law at the Washington
and Lee School of Law.

Sycamore Farms offers fresh local produce

 

By Rob MacPherson
Staff Reporter

 

Are you looking for some home
made bread or some fresh fruit and
vegetables?

How about a six-pack or a bottle of
wine?

If any of the above ies tickle
your fancy, then you should pay a
visit to the Farm Market at 14S. Ran-
dolph St. in Lexington.

Owned and operated by Bruce and
Betty Jane Becker, Sycamore Farm
offers a wide range of food and
beverages to the Lexington com-
munity in what the owner called a
“no-nonsense” fashion.

“This place is what it says it is,”
said Becker.

“There is nothing fancy about this
joint. We make all of our stuff from
seratch and we bake it right here,”
he said.

Becker also said that all of the fruit
and vegetables are grown on his
farm and brought in fresh everyday.
He added that when goods are in
season and in large demand
shipments are made twice a day.

Becker said he will not carry an
item that doesn’t meet his personal
standards.

‘‘People want good, honest
vegetables,”’ he said.

‘‘Here, homegrown means
homegrown.”

In addition to his homegrown
goods, Becker said that he also car-
ries homemade jams and_jellys
which he buys from a woman in Lex-
ington.

“T stock local produétion because I
think community involvement is im-
portant,”’ he said.

Becker also said that he finds it
easier to control the quality of his
goods when he knows the supplier
personally.

Originally, Becker owned a small
store in Kerr’s Creek about six miles
outside of Lexington. When he learn-
ed that a lot of his business was com-
ing from people living in Lexington,
he decided to bring his goods to them.
By moving to Lexington, Becker ex-
panded his store and his sales.

‘“‘We’re doing well,” he said. ‘‘The
average sale for a specialty store is
good,” he added.

Becker said that eventually,

 

   

SYCAMORE
FARM Pk
MARKET |

 

 

 

  
   

 

 

Photo by Chris Leiphart

Sycamore Farms, Lexington’s new grocery store, located on Randolf Street.

Sycamore Farm will be offering take
out dinners in addition to groceries.
The featured dinner entrees that
Becker mentioned include a shrimp
and scallops combination dish, pot
roast, barbecued ribs and chicken.

Becker said that he will also offer two
other items which will vary week to
week. He said that each entree will
include a baked potato, cole slaw and
hot bread.

“T would like my dinner entrees to

be an alternative to the fast food in
the area,’’ Becker said.

The Sycamore Farm Market’s is
open for business from 7:30 a.m. to
8:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
The store is closed Sundays.

‘W&L polo members play summer tournaments

 

By Shawn Crawford
Staff Reporter

 

This past summer three members
of the W&L water polo team traveled
to southern California to participate
in several tournaments while work-
ing as lifeguards and swimming in-
structors.

Senior Simon Perez, junior David
Dietz, and sophomore Adam Morgan
arrived in Fullerton, Ca., in mid-
June to find that summer water
sports abound in the southernwestern
US.

‘The quantity of water polo played
out in California is mindboggling.”’
said Morgan. “There were tour-
naments almost every weekend. I
think the best part of the trip was the
amount of playing time I had. I
played in about four major tour-
naments where at home in Baltimore
I probably would have played in only
one.

Perez agrees saying, ‘‘To play five
days a week, twice a day, was fan-
tastic. Had I not gone, I wouldn’t
have played all summer.”

The three practiced from 6:00 to
8:00 a.m. with Sunny Hills High
School and from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m.
with Santa Anna Junior College.

The rest of the time was spent giv-
ing instructions in swimming,
lifeguarding, or resting up for the
next grueling day of practice.

Dietz had less R&R, as he took a
full time organic chemistry course
(in which he made an A), and
Morgan was able to play more polo
because of his age bracket When
asked if he thought the experience
was helpful to their quality of play,
Perez’s answer was definite.

“The whole team had an opportuni-
ty to go. Since there were only three
of us, and we need six people for a
team, toward the end of the summer
we were able to play very well
together.’ he said.

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

Morgan also noticed im-
provements in their play, saying, “I
noticed we played better as a unit.
We developed an intuition as to what
the other person was doing.”

He also believed that the practice
helped during The Southern League
Tournament last weekend, where the
team managed to win four games
and rallied in the second half of their
game with The University of Arkan-
sas to close a wide scoring gap.

“T think the players need to play
under different programs and
coaches."’ said Head Coach Page
Remillard. ‘I think it’s good for
them. It has certainly helped our pro-
gram because we are competing
against people who are doing that all
the time.”

The players stayed with Jim
Spragues, who coaches at Sunny
Hills and who came to W&L as direc-
tor of a polo clinic.

Impressed with the quality of play

here, be made available a chance to
come to California for a summer
clinic.

From that point it was up to the
players to decide if it was advan-
tageous for them to participate.

Because of NCAA regulations,
neither Coach Remillard nor any
other administrator was able to sway
their decision.

“T knew what they were going into
so I could articulate what they
could expect,”’ said Remillard.

Staying at the Sprague residence
helped to ease the expenses ac-
cumulated on a tirp of this nature.

‘‘We were very fortunate that they
put us up,”’ Perez said.

As for the remainder of their earn-
ings, both Perez and Morgan stress-
ed that they had no intention of trying
to save money, and that it was used
to pay for the living and travel ex-
penses incurred during their trip.

“Lifeguarding paid about five-fifty
an hour, though I worked less than

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 165
31S. Main $t., Lexington 463-3255

forty hours a week and couldn’t work
weekends because of the tour-
naments,”’ Morgan said. ‘I did make
enough to pay for the plane ticket and
all other expenses.”’

Perez admitted to making enough
to pay for the airline ticket and to
give back what his parents gave him
to make the trip possible.

Though he is supportive of what
these three men did, as well as the
playing time other members of the
team were able to find over the sum-
mer, Remillard said, ‘‘I’d be surpris-
ed if all three got the same thing out
of the program. I can’t say Califor-
nia’s the answer; the attitude’s the
answer. It’s the commitment that’s
going to improve the team.”

pean Politics and Society course,
Steven Roth said, “‘I think it’s an ex-
cellent opportunity to learn from an
excellent teacher from a communist
country. In addition to the enormous
value of the cultural points, he’s an
excellent teacher in Sociology. More
people should have taken advantage
of it.”

Kennon Savage, who is taking the
Social Theory course agreed. ‘‘He
knows every detail. He asks ques-
tions that require a lot of thought. He
demands a lot of us.”

Charles Shearer takes his Special
Topics in Sociology course. He said,
“It’s really elucidating. He’s a very
nice man and most importantly, he
really knows what he’s talking about.
He’s very much on top of what he’s
speaking about. He’s really in-
terested in student output.’’

Coming to W&L was the realization
of a dream for Professor Jasiewicz.

He said, “‘I came to this country as
a fellow at Harvard. I realized I could
extend my stay for one year. I
wanted to experience teaching at a
small university. I was dreaming
about it.”’

He is returning to Warsaw at the
ehd of the school year.

es

General
Notes

 

Cards and Gifts

The Holiday Gift and Card
Catalog is now available through
the Shenandoah Region of the
American Lung Association of
Virginia. It contains 12 exquisitely
designed greeting cards ranging
from $11 to $20 per box of 25. All
envelopes are color-coordinated
and many are foil-lined. Gift
items include decorative tins fill-
ed with candy, cookies and nuts as
well as several No Smoking items.
Call Rachael Crawford at 434-3862
or the Lung Association office in
Verona at 248-3300 to receive your
catalog.

3. .
Stacks o’flapjacks
‘The Washington and Lee
Lacrosse team is sponsoring an
all you can eat pancake breakfast
Saturday at St. Patrick’s Catholic
Church. Tickets will be available

at the door, $3 per person, $5 per
couple. From 8:00 to 11:00 a.m.

Trident elections

Elections for freshman
representatives to Trident will be
held on Tuesday, Oct. 13 at 6 p.m.
in the Women’s Center. Nomina-
tions will be taken at the meeting
and all freshmen women are
welcome. Following the meeting
there will be a meeting for
freshmen women.

Trident pictures

Sunday, October 11th from 7-9
p.m. will be the last time anyone
can purchase ‘‘Confetti’s’’
daytime pictures. Come down to
the Trident office in the basement
of the University Center to buy
them.

Counselors

Applications are still being ac-
cepted for the Peer Counseling
Program. They may be obtained
in Room 104 of the University
Center. Deadline for submissions
is October 16. For further infor-
mation call 463-8590 or 463-8592.

 

 

 

 

 

HERRING TRAVEL
SERVICES, INC.

Good Luck Generals!

463-2197

41S. Main St.

 

 

 

ee
C hy,
17 S. MAIN STREET

 

: ol ror oe PHONE (703)463-2323 ate
a ee hey tog
“y" FREE film with ~~

each one processed

 

Welcome Alumni
Good Luck Generals

 

 

Country Ritchen

AN OLO FASHIONED BAKERY
EAT IN OR TAKE OuT

8 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

HUNTERGHUNTR

18 E. Nelson St., Lexington

A GREAT PLACE
TO SHOP!

For Gifts, Prints, Jewelry, Sunglasses,
Outdoor Clothing and Equipment

 

“Look for the white horse!”’

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987

 

 

 

Horse Center caters to every horseman

 

By Mar

Co-editor

e Dunne

 

irginia Horse Center held its

rst official show, the Blue Ridge
Juarter Horse Association Show and
Futurity, during the last weekend of
August and will host a dressage com-
petition, a hunter trials competition,
cutting show within the next

 

and a

month

 

File Photo

Hunters stand ready.

All this activity is pretty im-
pressive considering the center will
not complete construction until the
spring of 1989.

The seven-million-dollar complex
is being built on 378 acres located
about three miles north of Lexington.

Phase I of the center, including
four fireproof stables, a covered
arena, a training ring, a traditional
show ring, and an entry pavilion, is
nearing completion. Most of the
buildings are finished and workmen
and expecting to complete the final
two stables by the first of the year.

Phase II of the center will include a
45,000 seat indoor arena, dressage

rings, and a Grand Prix ring. The

 

design for the indoor arena, which
may include a show ring, box
seating, regular seating, and a
restaurant, is still under considera-
tion, according to Frank Bierman,
Director of Facility Programs. Pro-
bably the last building to be con-
structed, the indoor arena is slated
for a spring 1989 completion.

The center will also eventually
have a network of trails and a polo
field.

“We just
horseman everything he
possibly want,”’ said Bierman.

The Virginia Horse Center is state-
owned and run by a board of direc-
tors appointed by the Governor. Ap-
proximately $2.5 million of the
centers $7 million cost will be paid
with state funds. The remaining
amount will be paid for from the
private sector.

offer the
could

want to

The idea for a state horse center is
not new. It was first discussed in a
1969 report for the Commission of the
Industry of Agriculture’s Horse In-
dustry, according to Jim Sharp,
equine specialist for the Virginia
Department of Agriculture and Con-
sumer Services, in an article in the
Lexington News-Gazette. The
General Assembly passed a resolu-
tion in 1980 creating a legislative sub-
committee to study the feasibility of
building a Virginia horse center.
Communities throughout Virginia
began submitting proposals for the
location of the center. In June of 1984,
the subcommittee visited each pro-
posed site, and after extensive
review, the subcommittee unani-
mously agreed to recommend the
site that is now the horse center.

According to Frank Bierman, the
committee selected the Rockbridge
site from among 16 proposed sites for
several reasons. The site was the
largest tract of land of all the pro-
posals. It was located at the crossing
of two major traffic corridors, In-

 

 

One of the Virginia Horse Center’s fireproof stables. The center can house up to 500 horses.

terstates 64 and 81, and is generally
located in the central part of
Virginia. It is only 45 minutes away
from Roanoke’s airport.

The area’s interest in the center
was also a contributing factor in the
selection.

“The City of Lexington, the city of
Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County
all got behind the Virginia Horse
Center,” said Bierman.

“They all said we're going to work
as a group to get this horse center.
We want this horse center and we will
make the commitment to have this
horse center.”’

The Virginia Horse Center even
tually will have facilities to ac-
comodate all breeds and disciplines
of the horse industry. In particularly

caters to sales, 4-H Judging, Grand
Prix Jumping, Reining Classes,
Dressage, Breed Shows, Eventing,
Cross-Country, Cutting, Polo, Trail
Riding, Hunter/Jumpers, Driving,
and Pony Club. There has even been
interest in having an International
Endurance Ride in 1989 with the trail
extending from Roanoke to the Horse
Center.

Groups wishing to use the Horse
Center rent out the facilities they
need. Riders bring their own feed,
because ‘‘everyone likes to feed their
horse a bit differently,’’ said Bier-
man. The stables have spaces for 500
horses, with nine wash racks for
horses and showers facilities for
their owners. There will also be cam-
ping sites available for owners who
would like to stay on the premises.

 

A

f
|
|
i
'

 

i

Governor Gerald L. Baliles admires a team of Clydesdales at the Virginia Horse Center.

Center’s economic influence disappoints

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-editor

 

“Not much has happened so far,”’
said Blake Brandon, owner of Hunter
and Huntress, a shop specializing in
equine and hunting supplies.

That seems to be the reaction of
many businesses in Lexington to the
assumption that the Virginia Horse

‘enter will increase revenue for area
shops.

The Horse Center held its first ma-
or event, The Blue Ridge Quarter
forse Association Show and Futuri-
y, during the weekend of Aug. 28-29.

The three-day event brought in 350
horses, trainers, and exhibitors from
seven States. The event brought in an
estimated revenue of $30,000 for the
quarter horse association, according
to an article in the Richmond Times-
Dispatch.

Robert Reel, executive director of
the center, estimated that the
center’s 1988 schedule of events will
bring in $6.2 million dollars to the
Lexington area.

However, during the weekend of
the quarter horse show, ‘“‘the town
was like a ghost town. Most of the
local people who would normally be
downtown were at the center,” said

Don Fredenburg, manager of
Historic Country Inns, which in-
cludes the McCampbell Inn and the
Alexander-Withrow House.

Maxine Holland, manager of The
Best Western Keydet-General, said

she polled her guests on the weekend
of the quarter horse show and found
that not one of her guests was atten-
ding or was associated with the show.

 

File Photo

“All of us thought it would be a suc-
cess overnight, and things just don’t
work that way,”’ Holland said.

Brandon said that she set up a
booth at the show displaying items
sold in her shop.

“We didn’t sell anything,” said
Brandon, She attributes the lack of

See Economics, page 9

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

Tilson Real Estate

703/463-3191
28 S. Main Street at
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Welcome Alumni
and
Good Luck Generals!

P. O. Box 1156

Lexington School of Ballet
To offer class or classes for W&L students

Class time and level to be decided by students at a meeting

Monday, Oct. 12 at 8:00 p.m.

Room 113, University Center
information, call Sherri Ludt
8a.m.-3 p.m. and after 8 p.m., weekdays

anytime weekends

 

 

 

 

Quality Quick Print

Welcomes You To Homecoming

Come See Our New Location
At
214S. Main Street

ssumes * Busin

s Cards * Flyers *

Stationery * Copies

 

Rockbridge Interiors

117S. Main St.
463-4200
Hours: 8-5 Monday - Friday

30% Off Selected
Wallpaper Books
Now through October 31st.

Benjamin Moore Paints - Custom Draperies

 

 

The Board of Directors are all af-
filiated with the horse industry, and
their knowledge of horses shows in
the details of the center.

“The board wanted to go first class
all the way, and I think it shows. The
stalls are so well thought out, with
vertical mesh on the inside of the
doors so a horse can’t hang a shoe on
it. They paid special attention to the
latch on the doors,”’ said Bierman.

“The same thing with the central
ring. They paid a _ tremendous
amount of attention to the lighting
grid. That’s one of the best lit arenas
I’ve seen.”’

Bierman also said the communica-
tions/announcing system is state-of-
the-art, allowing the announcer to
control several rings and call classes

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-editor

 

If some students have their
way, Washington:and Lee will add
riding to its list of intercollegiate
sports.

Marguerite Ayers, a W&L
senior, is trying to start a womens
riding team to compete with other
colleges.

Ayers rode while she was a stu-
dent at Hollins College, winning
the regional competition, and go-
ing on to compete at the national
competition.

Washington and Lee has several
excellent riders among its women
students, said Ayers.

Tait North, a freshman, is one of
those riders. North won first place
in the Pony Club Nationals, quali-
fying to go on to international
competition in Australia (the na-
tional team didn’t go because of
lack of funds.)

“T’d love it [if W&L formed a
riding club],” said North.

North plans to board her own
horse in Lexington during the
winter term, so she can practice
regularly. Because she is ranked
number one nationally and
therefore can teach classes, North
has been contacted by the local
fox hunt and pony club members,
who have offered to board her
horse.

File Photo

from the stables all from one spot in
the pavilion.

The fencing is made out of a special
plastic that won't splinter if a horse
kicks it and will never need painting.
Bierman says the extra cost will be
worth it later on.

“If you do haphazzard work, you
will just have to come back at a later
date and replace it.’’

Among the events scheduled for
the Horse Center in the next month
are the Virginia Dressage Associa-
tion South West District Dressage
Competion (Oct. 17), The Rockbridge
Hunt Hunter Trials and Driving Com-
petition (Oct. 18), the National Sanc-
tioned Cutting Show (Nov. 2 and 3),
and the Buena Vista Chamber of

See Horses, page 9

 

Wa&L students to
form riding team

North said that while the type
riding she loves is not the type
that competes inter-collegiately,
she is still interested in being on
the riding team.

For this year, Ayers is hoping to
organize Sévéral women students
who already have riding ex-
perience into a team.

“The problem we have right
now is that most other schools
have horses, facilities and a
coach. We are concerned with the
capacity to teach [riding] at
W&L,”’ said Ayers.

In order for the team to com-
pete, they will need ‘‘some ex-
perienced riders who can throw
their leg over a horse once a
month and be competitive.”

Ayers said the only re-
quirements a rider must have are
experience and correct riding
gear — boots, jodphur pants, and
riding jacket. The intercollegiate
competitions supply the riders
with horses.

The riders on the team will try
to find practice horses individual-
ly, hopefully from area owners
who need someone knowledgable
to exercise their horses, said
Ayers.

The Intercollegiate Horse Show
Association also requires a $50
membership fee to allow
Washington and Lee to compete.

Cj See Riding, page 9

 

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-5988

LEXINGTON

SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

ee

 

 

 

16x 20 $094

LIMITED TIME OFFER

 

Giant Photo Posters

Available from 35mm negatives and slides, or any print. (Some
image area may be lost due to cropping.) Copy negative from
original print extra.

Pres Brown’s
115 West Nelson Street
462-2521

20x30 Sad

Offer good through 10-30-87 _

 

 
 

cnedilieiieddiadineiemanaitaeenisueaesiniarcaeionatnemmtammmemaniae

lazing

Céntinued from Page 1

t added, “‘I think the issue is being:
iressed at each house.

| personally think that what I do

 

here is what’s best for my frat. We
know what is a positive thing and
what is negative. I’d much rather me
and the guys in my frat were the ones
to decide,”’ he said.

Atkins, as a final comment on haz-
ing, said, “‘There are a lot of good
ideals in every fraternity on campus
but...there’s a lot of open water be-
tween the ideals and the reality.”’

 

Aiding

 

Centinued from Page 8

ers ‘said she is looking into who
ghd provide those funds.

\yers plans to hold an informa-
nat meeting later in the fall term.
s, {@am may require tryouts if
re is enough interest.

‘This year we need to get a few
ect strong riders and be very
mpetitive. In doing so, maybe we
1 wally some support for next

year,” said Ayers.

She also hopes that placing a few
W&L students in national competi-
tion will “‘open some eyes’’ and
garner some support for the team.

“I think it’s pretty reasonable to
assume that we may get a few people
to go tonationals.”’

Given the talent of its students and
its location, Ayers says its only
natural for W&L to compete in
riding.

“This is horse country. It’s kind of
Silly for W&L not to have a riding
club.”’

(TSE A ATTRA UME HAS

\nnual

 

Continued from Page 1
*

‘I Rave, in effect, challenged the
ard of Directors, the Board of
ustves and the Law Council, of
‘ich 1am a member, to raise their
el of contributions. I have set a
lle@tive goal of 10 percent of the
id goal, or $185,000,”’ Marion said,

 

jorses

 

Continued from Page 8

mfherce Hunter Schooling Show
OVe7).

The Rockbridge Hunt Hunter
2S were held at the center last
w,Said Bierman. Many spectators

*peech

 

 

Coytinued from Page 3

' Introduction to Astronomy; CO-
itor of The Redshift Controversy
d The Dusty Universe.

During 1985-86, Field was a
ember of the President's National
mmission on Space. He has also
rved on a number of advisory com-

,

°°

a

_eorr~«

« *

*

*

describing his third new approach to
fund-raising.

The Annual Fund donations go
directly into the operating budget of
W&L. Right now, the fund's contribu-
tion equals approximately 8 percent
of the total budget.

“I would like to see the fund raise
close to 10 percent of the budget,”’
said Marion. ‘Currently,’ he added,
“the $1,744,000 raised creates about
$1,100 per student.”

held tailgate parties to watch the 90
riders go through about 17 elements
of the trials, something Bierman
would like to become a tradition.

For those who would like to see The
Virginia Horse Center in person, the
center will be offering a short presen-
tations and guided tours after the
Buena Vista Chamber of Commerce
Hunter Schooling Show at 2:15 and
3:30.

mittees for NASA, the National
Academy of Sciences, and other na-
tional and international organiza-
tions dealing with ground-based and
space astronomy, and the U.S. space
programs.

Field received his B.S. degree from
the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and his Ph.D. from
Princeton. He is .W&L’s-Phi Beta

Kappa Visiting Scholar for «this-

academic year.

 

Economics

 

Continued from Page 8

sales to the number of vendors at the
show from outside the area.

Because the event was catered,
very few of the participants of the
show came into town to eat.

‘We did a small amount of food
business,” said Cindy Green, sales
representative for the Lexington
Holiday Inn and Fox Hunt
restaurant.

John Keykendail Jr. of the Golden
Corral! Restaurant said he noticed an
increase in their business during the
weekend. of the show. Keykendall
estimated that business has increas-
ed 10 to 15 percent since the opening
of the center, ‘especially in late
night business.”’

Keykendall said most of the late
night customers were dressed in
“cowboy attire’ and came in after
the show ended. The restaurant is
open until 11:00 on Fridays and
Saturdays and until 10:00 on Sun-
days. .

Green of Holiday Inn said the motel
was filled during the weekend of the
show, primarily with tourists, not
people from the horse show. The
motel is usually full during summer

Fiji

Continued from Page 1

 

 

said Hall.
W&L’s chapter of Phi Gamma
Delta was featured on the front of the

Purple Pilgrim, the international
magazine.

 

Karate

() Continued from Page 6

 

the fighting. I always wanted to learn
karate and it’s great for flexibility.

John Nicolas takes the class

weekends, but Green said she is hop-
ing the horse center will bring in
business during the slower winter
months.

“The big shows are scheduled on
already big weekends around here,”’
said Green, citing a possible reason
for the lack of horse show people at
the already-full motel.

Though the immediate results are
disappointing, many merchants are
waiting to make final judgments.

“I think it’s premature to say or
write anything on what it will do,”
said Fredenburg, ‘‘We do anticipate
that it will do something.”

“I’m hoping it will be beneficial,”
said Holland, “I guess for us it’s a
wait and see. I don’t think there have
been enough activities to really
judge.”

Brandon said several area mer-
chants are working with the Lex-
ington Downtown Development
Association to get visitors to come in-
to Lexington, rather than staying at
the center.

Among the ideas being considered
is sending a single merchant to
represent all of the Lexington shops
at each function, advertising in a per-
sonal manner while still allowing
most shopkeepers to remain open,
according to Brandon.

“Serious money will [eventually]
be coming in,” said Brandon, ‘“‘so it’s
good we’re learning now.”’

“This was important not only in the
W&L community, but stressed inter-
nationally as well,’’ said Cockey.

Cockey gives a lot of the credit for
improvement to the house corpora-
tion and the house mother Mrs. Vogt.

“The award was good for the W&L
fraternities because there is so much
bad publicity. We gained a lot of good
recognition among our community
and that is good for W&L,” said
Cockey.

because, ‘‘It’s a good combination of
conditioning and discipline. It’s not
easy, but it’s as tough as you make it.
[The class] makes me feel like I’m
doing something physically construc-
tive.

“Robin McCabe says the class,
“Teaches you how to be assertive

~~ and it builds your’skills on concentra:

tion.”’

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987, Page 9

 

 

7
gaat

   

SS
ep) ))
error cat om OF “4

Ag.

 

To

ayer |

   

 

File Photo

Artist’s rendering of Horse Center’s main arena.

Virginians support lottery

 

By Jim Hodge
Staff Reporter

 

A majority of Virginians are in
favor of passing the long-disputed
Virginia state lottery referendum,
according to a Richmond Times-
Dispatch poll.

The poll, taken in September,
shows 66 percent of the registered
voters in favor of the lottery, 29 per-
cent opposed and 5 percent undecid-
ed.

The elections this November will
not be the the first time the lottery
referendum has come up for a vote.

In September, 1978 a Richmond
Times-Dispatch poll showed that 54
percent of the registered voters in
Virginia wanted a state lottery. The
referendum was stopped by an unex-
pected surge of conservative voters.

Currently the lottery receives its
strongest support from Northern and
Eastern Virginia and the least sup-
port in the Shenandoah Valley.

Former Attorney General Mar-
shall Coleman argues the state will

lose sales tax and other tax revenue
on the money spent on lottery tickets.
He says the state will have to spend
more on law enforcement and
welfare because the lottery will in-
crease crime and poverty. Coleman
is doubtful of what he calls the lottery
supporters’ prediction — that a state
lottery will bring in an extra $200
million a year for Virginia.

Ken Storey, public relations direc-
tor of “Virginians for the Lottery’,
retaliated by saying the $200 million
estimate was made, not by the sup-
porters, but by the Senate Finance
Committee. Storey also claims that
Coleman is using ‘‘scare tactics’
—predictions of increased crime and
poverty — to discourage voters from
supporting the referendum.

Storey says the lottery will help
pay off some of the $1 billion in
capital outlay projects for state
universities and colleges, hospitals
and other public facilities.

Though the polls show Virginians
in favor of having a lottery, no one
can be sure of the outcome until the
issue is decided by voters on Nov. 3.

Banker to speak at W&L

 

From Staff Reports

 

Bo Brookby, senior vice president
in charge of credit policy for the na-
tional division of Wachovia Bank,
will deliver an address on commer-
cial banking at Washington and Lee
University.

Brookby will speak at 7:30 p.m.,
Thursday, Oct. 15 in Room 327 of the

Sehool--of Commerce, - Economics, ~

and Politics at Washington and Lee.

TOUR
Friday, October 9, 8:00 p.m.

at the Student Activities Pavilion

$8.00 at the door
PRESENTED BY THE SAB & CELLAR DOOR PRODUCTIONS

Proper ID Required

ADMISSION: $8.00 in advance at W&L Bookstore

 

His address, “The Challenge and Op-
portunities in the Commercial Bank-
ing Environment,” is free and open
to the public.

A native of Oklahoma, Brookby
received his undergraduate degree
from Washington and Lee in 1972. He
received his M.B.A. from Stanford
University in 1977.

Brookby’s visit is sponsored by the
W&L chapter of the Financial Man-
agement Association.
~-A-reception will follow Brookby’s
address.

HOMECOMING WEEKEND 1987
WASHINGTON AND LEE

        
  
. SPORTS

Soccer wins
third straight

a?
:
x

BS

oa

aoeeneine no ence

 

ee ee |

—_—_—;/ 9m IIR NUR

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987

10

 

By Gary McCullough
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team evened out their season
record to 3-3 Tuesday afternoon with
a close 1-0 win over Roanoke on
Smith Field.

The game was obviously a defen-
sive battle from the start to finish.
Sophomore Jack Pringle had an
outstanding performance in goal,
allowing Roanoke only mere
thoughts of an actual score. The
game went into overtime, tied at 0-0.

With about four minutes left in the
first part of the overtime, sophomore
Rick Silva (commonly referred to by
the crowd as ‘‘Young Rick’’) was
finally able to blast a shot right into
the back of the goal to put the
Generals on top.

The second part of the overtime in-
tensified on the part of both the
teams and the crowd. At least three
questionable, if not absurd, yellow
cards were given out to W&L players
within a five-minute period.

This provoked comments from the
crowd like, ‘‘Wait! That guy over
there doesn’t have one yet.’ and
“Hold on. Who doesn’t have one
yet?”

Sophomore Christian Eckman
commented on the team’s perfor-
mance after the game. ‘I think we
played really well, but we also had a
lot of help defensively from our
goalie, Jack Pringle,’ he said. He
also said the Generals may not have
taken advantage of as many oppor-
tunities as they should have, but the
“team seems to be coming
together.”

Head coach Rolf Piranian said, ‘‘I
thought our defense did a really good
job.”” He thought both teams were
simply playing outstanding defense
the entire game.

The Generals are now 3-3 overall,
but own an impressive 3-0 Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference record. The
team will get an opportunity to con-
tinue their three-game winning
streak, Saturday at 3:00 against
Messiah College on Smith Field.

 

 

 

ot ee

. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

By Perry §

Jamie Urso (14) brings the ball up against Roanoke.

   

 

By Amy Packar
Staff Reporter

 

The standard first response to any
question about last Thursday's
Washington and Lee women’s soccer
game against Hollins is, ‘“We should
have won “

Both the players and the coach of
the team were confident of victory.
Yet the final score was 3-2 in favor of
‘Hollins, and head coach Janine
Hathorn and several team members
blame both physical and mental fac-
tors for the loss.

“Since we expected victory, we
were too complacent,” said Hathorn.
“It seemed as if, after a while, we
couldn't conquer the mistakes
although we played hard.”

Freshman Cary Baber described
the W&L team as having ‘‘a strong
first half, where we were in control
and allowed no shots.”’ As for the out-
come, Baber said, ‘‘We have a ten-
dency to play better against more
challenging teams.”’

The highlights of the game were
the goals scored by sophomore
center forward Catherine Baillo and
junior center mid-fielder Alexa
Salzman, as well as what Hathorn
describe as an ‘“‘exceptional perfor-
mance”’ on the part of freshman
goalie Sherri Brown.

™| Women remain winless

On Tuesday, after an exhausting
double overtime, the final score
against Randolph-Macon Women's
college was 2-2. Again, attitude
seems to have been a hindrance, con-
sidering W&L had 40 shots on goél
—as opposed to R-M’s eight — in the
first half.

‘‘We were over confident at 2-0, arid
we paid for it in the second half,”
observed freshman Rachelle Nock.

The game’s” scorers were
sophomore center fullback Sarah
Allen — who also had an assist — ahd
junior right wing Catherine Chris-
tion.

Another double overtime in Satur-
day’s game against Lynchburg
resulted in the score of 2-1 for the op-
position. However, this time there
were no regrets about any part of the
performance. W&L knew they were
competing against an excellent
team, and proceeded to respond well
to the challenge. ‘

With an assist from freshman
JuLee Messerich, sophomore left
midfielder Mary Alice McMorrew
scored the only goal. Even though a
defeat, the game is considered to be a
promising display of both new ard
old talent.

Hathorn confirmed the players’
'

_] See Soccer, page 11

Generals outgun; Gilbert outruns Randolph-Macon, 35-28

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

W&L quarterback Phil Sampson
told the Richmond Times-Disptach
last Saturday that he wasn’t too
familiar with the Randolph-Macon
Yellow Jackets. ‘‘There’s a girl's
school near here called Randolph-
Macon, but I can’t comment on it
more elaborately than that.’’

Well, Sampson now knows a little
bit more about Randolph-Macon
(0-4), but the sophomore QB pro-
bably wishes he didn’t, as the Yellow
Jackets gave the Generals all they
could handle in a 35-28 Old Dominion
Athletic Conference thriller.

On their way to the victory, the

Generals (2-1) used just about every
play in the book. Head coach Gary
Fallon’s ball control offense took the
day off, as Washington and Lee tried
everything from Sampson-sneaks up
the middle to 47-yard TD receptions
by split end Hugh Finklestein to
power running by senior tailback
Chris Coffland and sophomore full-
back Russ Crosby.

As tough as the day was for the
W&L offense, the defense had to work
just as hard. Although it did allow
Macon senior running back Remon
Smith nearly 300 yards rushing, the
W&L defense was able to hold the
Jackets when it counted most. Twice
junior linebacker Tom Skeen in-
tercepted passes inside the W&L 10-
yard line, and the Generals ended the

last Macon drive of the game by
holding on fourth down. As Fallon
later put it, the W&L defenders “‘sort
of bent every now and then, but they
never quite broke.”

But even_the we’ll-try-anything of-
fense and the we-won’t-break defense
weren’t enough, as the Generals had
to call on their kickoff receiving team
to pull off the win. After the Jackets
went ahead by one with less than four
minutes remaining, freshman Carl
““Sweetness”’ Gilbert took the ensu-
ing kickoff 82 yards for the winning
touchdown.

Randolph-Macon started the scor-

‘ing on a 5-yard run by Smith late in

the first quarter, and sophomore
Mark Palmgren’s kick gave the
Jackets a 7-0 lead. But W&L’s Cof-

fland was in the end zone less than
two minutes later, and freshman
Carter Quayle kicked the extra point
to tie the score at seven.

The second quarter began with the
Yellow Jackets driving, but Skeen
ended that threat with his first in-
terception of the day, picking off a
pass by Macon QB Rick Kline at the
‘10-yard line. The Generals drove 55
yards in five plays, only to turn the
ball over on fourth down at the
Yellow Jacket 27.

After the W&L defense forced
Randolph-Macon to punt, the
Generals drove to the three-yard
line, where Sampson hit senior split
end John Roe with 2:21 remaining in
the half. Quayle’s kick gave W&L a
14-7 lead.

 

=

The Generals fire a shot in Sunday’s game against Arkansas.

 

 

Welcome Alumni
and Good Luck
Generals

Spanky’s

Your favorite

downtown restaurant

We Hire W&L Students!
APPLY NOW!

 

 

eh

r

4s

      

SSS

i oi TTT
OTe ae ae apa Peay aT ayaa yy
Hace gs eel

 

 

 

Fg 4

 

——
>
en me

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EXTRAORDINARY GIFTS
FOR ALUMNI, PARENTS
AND STUDENTS

Don't miss our exclusive W&L Collection

 

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

The Generals forced another
Macon punt with less than a minute
left, but Sampson needed only 26
seconds before he threw to Finkles-
tein for a 47-yard touchdown bomb.
All of a sudden, the Generals were up
21-7, and what had been a tie ball
game less than two minutes earlier
threatened to become a blow-out.

In the third quarter, however, the
Jackets showed that the game was
far from over. Macon scored with
8:15 left in the third quarter on a 31-
yard pass from Kline to senior Scott
Lincoln, and Palmgren’s extra point
cut the W&L lead to seven.

The Generals responded by driving
50 yards in eight plays, scoring on a
nine-yard pass from Sampson to
Finklestein. Quayle’s try for point

failed, leaving W&L on top, 27-14,
with just under five minutes left in
the third quarter.

The Jackets quickly went to work,
driving 76 yards in less than four
minutes and scoring on a four-yard
carry by Smith. Palmgren’s kick
made the score 27-21 with 54 seconds
left in the third period.

Things soon went from bad td
worse for the Generals. Washington
and Lee’s Bob Martin fumbled the
kickoff, giving the Jackets the foot
ball at the W&L 40. But Skeen’s sec;
ond interception of the day kept
Macon from taking the lead, at least
for the time being. 4

The Generals were only able to run

-) See Football, page 11

*

U. of A. and official

’

down Polo in final

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

“We was robbed!”’

This is what W&L fans were
mumbling to themselves as they filed
out of the seats at Cy Twombly Pool
after Sunday’s Southern League
Tournament first round champion-
ship game. The Washington and Lee
water polo team lost to the Universi-
ty of Arkansas, 13-11, but an official’s
call or non-call may have proved to
be the deciding factor.

With eight seconds left, the Razor-
back’s goalie had the ball and was
about to put it into play. Water polo
rules state that a player has three
seconds to make the ball live by
either throwing it to a teammate or
by giving it a quick toss and catching
it. The U. of A. goalie performed the
latter, and junior David Reavy, mak-
ing a heads-up play, knocked the ball
‘out of the goalie’s hand an into the
goal, apparently tying the score at 12.

“We pulled the goalie out to
pressure their six field players and
their goalie,” said Reavy, a co-
captain, ‘‘and the goalie was in front
‘of the goal and he put [the ball] in
play. As soon as the ball is put into
play you can either foul the guy or do
whatever you want to him. He put the
ball in play and we slammed it in.”

But the referee disallowed the goal,
so the Generals’ come-from-behind
bid came up short. The Razorbacks
were also awarded a penalty shot as

the buzzer sounded, which gave thena
the 2-goal margin of victory.

_ “The referee was a novice-level
referee,’ said head coach Pag
Remillard. ‘The quality of the gam
and the pressure ot the game was
way beyond him. He later admitted
that he didn’t know what to do. It was
just kind of like ‘I’m not going to let ”
the game end that way.’ He didn’t
call the rules.”’

Remillard also said that the ofr
ficial’s call was not the reason why
the Generals, 15-2 on the season, lost
the game.

“My first reaction would be to say
that the referee blew it,” he said»
“But then earlier in the game I saw a
play where he blew it and we scored a’
goal. So I can’t hang my head over,
the fact he missed a call with eight
seconds left.”’ .

?

The controversy ended what could
have been a miraculous comeback’
for the Generals. W&L won posses-,
sion from the outset of the game and,
less than a minute later, had a 1-0 ad-r
vantage. But it was a short-lived
lead. As the Generals looked on’
shellshocked, the Razorbacks, un-,
ranked nationally but ranked No. 1 in
the Southern League, racked up six*
consecutive goals to take a 6-1 lead at
the close of the first period. ,

“The first quarter we were not |
playing the type of defense we plann-

C See Polo, page 11

'

 

Agent

203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
Phone: 463-7719

 

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Res: 463-4051 M

4 NATIONWIDE

  

% Nationwide is on your side *

y

INSURANCE

 

 

Lexington Shoe Hospital
Downtown Lexington °

(Expert Shoe Repair)

I need your shoes.
Repair is my business.

3 West Nelson Street,

 

Lexington, Va
‘Eley

we"

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987, Page 11

 

 

Polo

 

() Continued from Page 10

ed to play,” said Remillard.
“They're an outside offensive team.
We know that they can shoot with in-
credible power and accuracy from
the outside. We needed to make some
adjustments.”

Adjustments are just what the
Generals successfully made.
Pressuring the outside men in Ar-
Ransas’ offense, W&L played the se-
cond quarter even at two goals
apiece and went into halftime trail-
ing, 8-3.

“We pressed the ball to our offense
to force them to spend their energy
playing defense,’ said Remillard.
“That worked. That changed the
game. They never got back to of-
fense.”’

Remillard made another change in
the second half, pulling deep-end
goalie sophomore David Olson and
replacing him with shallow-end
goalie junior Tom Rawls. Olson
allowed the six goals in the first
quarter, but Remillard said the move
was more a psychological ploy thana
punishment for poor play.

“‘When I made the change, I had to
make confidence changes,” he said.
“The field players blamed the goalie.
Rawls had the momentum. The team
had the support. They were behind
Rawls — they knew he was blocking
things.

“It also indicates that I believed we
could still win it. A lot of times a guy
is doing a good job, but you need a
mental effect, you still make a
change. Olson wasn’t hurting us.”

What also wasn’t hurting the
Generals was an extremely vocal
crowd. With W&L beginning to make
its comeback, the fans started to get
into the game and help shift the
momentum of the game to the
Generals’ side.

“Our fans really made a dif-
ference,’’ said Remillard. ‘They
believed we could come back, and
their enthusiasm helped us and pro-
bably put some doubt in the minds of
the Arkansas players.”’

With the noisy crowd erupting at
every W&L goal, the Generals cut in-
to the Razorbacks’ lead and trailed
by only three, 10-7, going into the
final stanza.

The Generals were in possession of
the ball and trailed by a single goal
three times at 10-9, 11-10 and 12-11.
Then came the mayhem with eight
seconds remaining.

Senior Simon Perez scored eight
goals to lead W&L, and junior David
Dietz chipped in four. The Generals
beat Mary Washington 23-2, UNC-
Wilmington 23-12, Richmond 13-6,
and George Washington 12-5 prior to
meeting Arkansas.

Unlike last year’s rival, Richmond,
Arkansas is a team that W&L re-
spects and looks forward to playing
in the future.

 

 

 

 

WA&L Sports Information

Junior Tom Skeen had two interceptions for the Generals.

 

   

«x | Hilly course proves too
tough for women harriers

 

 

 

J ie eel = ‘
By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Simon Perez obstructs the view of an Arkansas player.

“It was very physical, but it was
good polo,” said Remillard. “It
wasn’t cheap. There were no cheap
shots. We get along with those guys
fine. We respect those guys a lot.
Good game. Good athletics. “‘

This weekend the team travels to

Annapolis, Md. to participate in the
Southeast Varsity Invitational,
where the Generals will meet the na-
tion’s No. 17 team, Bucknell.
Bucknell handed W&L its only other
loss this season, defeating the
Generals 12-10 in Providence on Sept.
20.

 

Football

 

) Continued from Page 10

time off the clock, however, as they
were forced to punt six plays later.
Starting at its own 27, Randolpb-
Macon drove 73 yards in six minutes.
Smith scored on an eight-yard carry,
and Palmgren’s kick gave the
Jackets the lead for the first time
since the first quarter, 28-27, with
3:45 left.

That set up Gilbert’s game-winning
TD. The freshman fielded the ball at
his own 18 and started up the middle.
‘We were just hoping for something
really good to happen, and gosh it
sure did,’’ said Fallon. Gilbert said
one saw a hole for the return just
after he fielded the ball. ‘‘The block-
ing was just tremendous,’ said
Gilbert. ‘‘Sweetness’’ cut to hi left
just short of midfield and raced the
last 50 yards untouched. The
Generals went for two on the conver-
sion attempt, and Sampson’s com-
pleted pass to Roe closed out the

scoring in the General’s second vic-
tory in theirlast two games.

HASHMARKS-—Sampson completed
15 of 24 passes on the day for 239
yards and three touchdowns. For the
season, Sampson’s passing effiency
rating stands at 146.3, giving him a
firm lock on second place among
ODAC quarterbacks... Finklestein
caught six passes for 137 yards and
two touchdowns against Macon. For
the season, he leads the ODAC in
receiving yards and receptions per
game and is tied for the lead in total
receptions. ‘‘He’s just come up with
one big play after another,” said
Fallon. ‘‘Hugh is going to be very im-
portant.to our offense.” Finklestein
may also be important to the W&L
defense. Playing defensive back,
Finklestein picked off a Rick Kline
pass to end the first half... Through

three games, Skeen leads _ the
Generals in interceptions (2),
unassisted tackles (39),

assisted tackles (14) and total tackles
(53)... The W&L-Macon game went
down to the wire for the second time
in as many years. The Jackets won in
Lexington last year, 21-20, on the
final play of the game.

Homecoming game sees a hungry Maryville

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

The Maryville Scots have lost all
three of their games this season, but
Washington and Lee head coach
Gary Fallon said that fact doesn’t
make him feel any better about

' Saturday's Homecoming match-up.

“I'd probably much rather play a
3-0 team,” said Fallon. ‘A hungry
team is a dangerous team, and I’m
sure they’re not very happy down
there.”

The Scots have scored only 16
points this season, compared to 82 for
their opponents, but Fallon said

Soccer

(1) Continued from Page 10

 

belief that their uneven level of play
during competition is the main con-
cern.

“Our attitude toward the second
half has been recognized as a pro-
blem,”’ she said. ‘“‘We’re working on

 

Welcome Alumni

 

Lexington Lighting
and Electric Supply
Robert E. Lee Hotel Building
26 South Main St.

Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9338

Arway Kirby, Jr

GOOD LUCK

 

 

GENERALS!

Maryville does have some talented
players on offense. Quarterback
Mike Human returns for the Scots.
He completed 11 of 17 passes for 243
yards and two touchdowns against
W&L last season. But Fallon said
Human is not starting this year; he’s
been replaced by Thomas Russ, a 6-0’
180-pound junior from Gainesville,
Ga.

Fallon said Russ, “‘possesses a lit-
tle stronger arm and a little better
quickness”’ than Human. Maryville’s
leading receiver is senior split end
William Delaney (5-11, 190). The
Scots are capable of an all-out pass-
ing offense, according to Fallon, but

mental strategies.”’

The team bases its practice
methods on the upcoming opponent.
Their next game, against Randolph-
Manconshland, requires defensive
training.

bad weather has kept Maryville from
airing the ball out too much this year.
“We think they possess possibly
more of a threat offensively than
Randolph-Macon,”’ said Fallon.
‘Maryville has a better quarterback,
they have good running backs and
their receivers are quite capable, so
our defense is in for a long day and a
tough day, unless they perform a lit-
tle better than they have.”
Defensively, Fallon said Maryville
is similar to Centre. ‘They persue
well, they swarm to the ball, and
they’re young and enthusiastic.”’ The
defense is dominated by under-
classmen, with “seven or eight

 

The objective there will be to com-
pete respectably. Yet the common
factor in each practice will now be
the strategic approach to the second
half of every game, regardless of the
opposition’s standing.

WELCOME FRESHMEN

We offer a complete line of grocery ,
items to serve your every need. We also 7
offer fresh beef, pork and poultry with %
deli meats for your convenience. We
carry a complete selection of domestic
and import beers and wines. Last but not
least, we offer student charge accounts,
that can be sent home to your parents.
Stop by today and we will be glad to talk
to you about opening one.

Serving the W&L community for over 30 years.

 

sophomores, a couple of freshman,
and very few seniors.” Fallon said
the minimal playing time will lead to
mistakes, but Maryville’s  en-
thusiasm is going to make up for the
lack of experience.
HASHMARKS—Head coach Larry
Stephens is in only his second year
with the Scots. He’s won only three of
14 ball games at Maryville... The
final score of last year’s game:
Maryville 35, W&L 28. Generals
quarterback Jon Thornton threw five
interceptions...

Saturday’s.game will be car-
ried live on WLUR. Coverage begins
at 1:15...

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee women’s
cross country team had a difficult
time of it last weekend, losing to Nor-
folk St., 19-37.

The Generals, coming off an im-
pressive race the week before in
which four runners broke the school’s
all-course record, literally ran into
trouble at the hilly 3.1-mile course in
Salem, Va.

“We're not quite as ready as I
thought we were,”’ said head coach
Jim Phemister, whose team is 0-2
this season. We’re making progress.
I thought we could run against them
more successfully than we did.”

Freshman Paige Cason turned in
another impressive performance,
finishing second in a time of 20:43.
Freshmen Heather Jenkins (7th) and
Lovell West (8th), and senior
Stephanie Smith (9th) and freshman
Wendy Wilson (11th) rounded out the
scoring for the Generals.

The times in the meet were higher
than the last meet, a fact Cason con-
tributes to the weather and the dif-
ficulty of the course in
the first meet against Mary Wash-
ington was mostly flat while the

course in Salem had more hills and
was, for the most part, run on grass.

“Our times went up because it was
cold,” said Cason. ‘‘Also, the course
was hilly, something we were not
quite ready for.”’

Phemister agreed. ‘Realistically,
with a younger team without much
experience, any new race situation
—different competition, harder
course — is always harder for them
to adjust to than the seasoned team.”

Phemister also pointed out that,
although the Generals did not run
poorly, there is still a lot of room for
improvement.

“There’s too much of a gap bet-
ween our first runner and our next
four,’ he said. ‘“They are still not
able to help each other our as much.
They don’t have anybody to help
break up the rest of the pack. But all
that is developing.”

On Saturday, the Generals will
travel to Newport News, Va. to com-
pete in the Division II and III State
Meet. Phemister sees this as an ex-
cellent opportunity for the team to
gain more experience.

“It should be a good race for us,”
he said. ‘“‘There will be more people
against whom are people can run and
compete.”’

Roanoke is ‘better team’

in defeat of

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

Two weeks ago the Washington and
Lee men’s cross country didn’t run
well in a shutout loss to Mary
Washington. This past weekend in
Salem, Va., even an excellent effort
might not have been enough to lead
the Generals to victory over Roanoke
College.

W&L defeated the other team, Nor-
folk State, 41-57, but it was th ex-
cellence of the Maroons that was just
too much for the Generals to handle.

“Well, we got beat by a better
team,”’ said head coach Dick Miller.
“Roanoke ran very well together.
They are not too deep but their top
four are very good.”’

Those top four, Dwayne Stover,
Tom Linden, Paul Walters and Brian
Falls, all finished before the No. 1
General crossed the line. Senior co-
captain Scott Rippeon was fifth
overall with a time of 28:52 over the

x-country

five-mile course. Junior Bill Clark
(6th), senior Richard Moore (7th),
freshman Larry Pilke (9th) and
senior co-captain Rick Norris (14th)
were the other scorers for W&L.

One thing the Generals did not
have to worry about at this meet was
the course. Roanoke unveiled a
brand-spanking new course which,
like W&L’s, is hilly and challenging.

“{Roanoke] ran on a new course
which is an excellent course,’’ said
Miller. “It’s a very comparable
course to our course, in the sense that
it’s rolling and on grass except for
one spot, which I consider a plus.”

The Generals will get a chance to
run on their own course, Saturday at
11:30 a.m., when they take on Cath-
olic University. Home course advan-
tage, however, does not insure a
cakewalk for W&L.

“As far as I can find out, Catholic
has one or two pretty good people,”
said Miller. ‘‘Other than that, I don’t
know much about them.”

 

Cross country

W. Soccer

 

Football

 

M. Soccer

 

 

   

‘s Lineu
11:30

11:30

1:30

3:00

 

 

 

Delivers 11:30-2:30 and 7:00-11:00

Widescreen TV

Monday Night Football
Music—Fri. & Saturday

October 9: The Stains

Specials Daily

Stop in &
pick up

October 16: The Convertibles

1014 Lee Avenue

your menu

 

463-5752
THE

 

BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1987

‘Fatal Attraction’’is a killer

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

Over the last year there have been
countless reports on the dangers of
casual sexual relationships in rela-
tion to the deadly disease we know as
AIDS. AIDS is nothing. If casual sex
in the United States is a problem,
then watching the film ‘Fatal At-
traction” is the solution.

“Fatal Attraction’ is easily the
most intense film to come to the
screen in at least a decade. Though it
draws from such thriller classics as
“Jagged Edge,’”’ ‘Dressed to Kill,”
“A Stranger in the House,” and
Hitchcock's ‘“‘Psycho,”’ it far sur-
passes them all in both intensity and

‘People’ opens

 

Staff Reports

 

The VMI Theatre's fall production
of Ordinary People will open at
Virginia Military Institute during
Parents Weekend, Oct. 15-17, with a
second series of performances on the
nights of Oct. 22-24.

VMI first classman ~.awn P.
Evans and Lexington High School
senior Robert Henneman will share
the lead role of teenager Conrad Jar-
rett. The story concerns the struggle
of Conrad and his family to get on
with their lives after the death of
Conrad’s older brother in a boating
accident.

The play, dramatized by Nancy
Gilsenan from the novel by Judith
Guest, will be presented at 8 p.m. in
the Scott Shipp Hall theatre at VMI,
with two dinner-theatre evenings of-
fered on Oct. 23 and 24. For the
dinner-theatre evenings, a buffet will
be served in the officers dining room
in Crozet Hall, with patrons making
the short walk to Scott Shipp for the
play.

The parents in the production will
be played by Lexington police
sergeant Torben Pedersen and
Cheryl Flint of Buena Vista. Col.

in quality. Director Adrian Lyne has
blended just the right amount of hor-
ror, suspense, and macabre to keep
you on the edge of your seat with your
heart in your mouth.

The film seems simple enough for
the first hour. Michael Douglas plays
a lawyer who has a one-time affair
with Glenn Close while his wife is in
the country visiting her parents. The
next day, Douglas realizes what he
has done and goes over to break
things off with Close. They talk, and
begin listening to Puccini's
‘Madame Butterfly.”’ In a nice piece
of foreshadowing, Douglas and Close
begin to discuss the passage they are
listening to, where the sailors leave
Madame Butterfly and she kills
herself. Like we don’t know what is

Michael S. Harris, professor of
modern languages at VMI, will play
the role of the psychiatrist, Dr.
Berger, and Lexington High School
senior Juliet Thompson will play
Conrad Jarrett’s girl friend Jean-
nine. Rounding out the cast are
Cadets James J. Stepnowski and
John R. Gentry, Washington and Lee
junior Elizabeth Fowler, and Lex-

coming next. Close slices her wrists,
but Douglas saves her and stays to
make sure she is all right.

Douglas calls the next day, Close
says she is all right and apologizes.
All is well, have a nice life, end of
story.

Yeah, Right!

For a second, you begin to wonder
why everyone and his brother is rav-
ing about such a simple, non-exciting
film. About that time however, Glenn
Close’s irrational side not only takes
her off the deep end, but slams her
around the bottom for a little while.
She begins sitting in the dark flipping
the lights on and off, she makes stew
out of the Douglas family pet, and she
kidnaps a little girl. At this point,
calling her a psychopath is being

generous.

The last hour of the film is a roller
coaster ride of terror, emotion, anx-
iety, and fear that culminates in an
ending that will bring you out of your
seat. This is not the kind of movie you
need to see on cocaine or Jolt Cola.

Michael Douglas, Glenn Close, and
Anne Archer are all quite good, but
any award for the film should go to
Adrian Lyne. His direction of this
film is excellent and will put it into
the realms of thriller classics.

Don’t miss this movie! It’s ex-
citing, interesting, and Ann liked it.
“Fatal Attraction” is a film ex-
perience that you will not soon forget.

TUG’S TAG xk xx*

VMI Theatre

ington High School junior Jack
DeCourcy. Working behind the
scenes will be Cadets Thomas B.
Kennedy, Jeffrey T. Millican, and
Brian K. Woodford. Anita Weber,
assistant archivist at the Marshall
Library, is in charge of costumes,
with props in the care of Robin
Campbell of Lexington.

Reservations for the play will be

 

 

   
 

We *

ae

ORDINARY
PEOPLE ee

Judith Guest's Novel
Dramatized by Nancy Glisenan

Theatre

presents

 

 

VMI production opens Oct. 15.

Children burn in Wilderness

 

By Greg Unger
Music Critic

 

Reunion Wilderness is the name of
The Railway Children’s introductory
U.S. album. And what a debut! They
had a single in Britain (‘‘A Gentle
Sound”’) that sent U.S. lables and
programmers into paroxysms of
delight and left them clamoring for
more. Far away in Britain, Gary
Newby and the guys heard their
prayers, signed with Virgin Records,
and now give us what could quite
possibly be the best new release of
the year. Imagine Echo and the Bun-
nymen and The Stlye Council singing
slightly less militant Aztec Camera
lyrics and you’ve got The Railway
Children.

What makes this album so strong is
that it has no weaknesses. The
Railway Children are well-produced,
talented musicians, performing
meaningful music. They sound good
and hear well. The first side,
especially, is as close to perfection as
imaginable. All 6 of the tracks on the
‘‘A”’ side are great. Are some greater
than others? ‘Yeah— “A Gentle
Sound’”’, ‘‘Another Town’’, and
“History Burns’. ‘‘History Burns’’ is
the strongest track on the album.
“Another Town” reminds me of The

Gp rece ae raenirreate ad aOR RIE IO RESET

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver,
China and Crystal

Wm. L. Hess, Jr.
Owner

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

(703) 463-2833

Lictonsmnaniesetmamammel

Style Council’s ‘‘Everchanging
Moods’’. ‘‘Content”’ is sandwiched in
here someplace—but don’t overlook
it. It simply takes the rather mellow
pace of this album to a higher plane.
“Brighter’’ begins the ‘‘B’’ side
and ranks up there with ‘History
Burns”’ as the strongest _ track.
“Brighter” has been getting air-time
at WLUR and could be the group’s
real breakthrough single. ‘‘Careful’’
is yet again Style Council-ish with a
slightlier funkier beat (for what
that’s worth). “‘Darkness and Color”’

also stands out on this flip side as
smacking slightly of Billy Bragg—
simple, yet eloquently so.

! suppose by now you realize that I
like this album. You will too. It
should appeal to anyone with any
semblance of musical taste—not just
progressive fans, but also to those
with more established, entrenched
tates. I think we'll be hearing
quite a bit from these fellas as they
become more established. A boon for
Echo & The Bunnymen Fans.

Ear Value * * * * (out of 4)

taken beginning Monday, Uct. 5, be-
tween 4 and 10 p.m. at telephone
463-6389. Tickets for the play will be
$3 for adults and $2 for students and
senior citizens. A special $2 rate will
be available for parents and families
during Parents Weekend. Prices for
the dinner and show will be $13.50 for
adults, $12.50 for students and senior
citizens.

WLUR
Adds
special

shows

By Greg Ossi
Staff Reporter

 

 

WLUR, the campus radio station,
has added a new feature to its
weeknight programs. The show is
called 11:30 Special and like the title
suggests it airs starting at 11:30 p.m.
and lasts until midnight. It will be
featured Monday through Thursday
with a different program every night.

Monday the show is called the
Feature Album Feature and will
highlight one album by playing it in
its entirety.

Tuesday’s show is called New
Track Record and will be featuring
the new releases of the week.

Wednesday the show is called In-
terchords and will be interviews with
today’s hottest bands.

Thursday’s show, The Local Music
Report, will be half an hour with the
area’s top musicians.

This is a new step for the station in
providing more interesting and
diverse programming to entertain
the listener. As Rock Director Rob
MacPherson said, ‘‘if you can hear it
on K-92 or some other station, we
don’t want to play it.”

 

‘

ALENDAR |

Thursday, October 8
All Day — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume
Critique. Room 129, University Center.
4&7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: Norma Rae. Room 327, Commerce
School. ‘
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘‘Cure by Death,”’ Dean Nuckols
‘88. Room 401, Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public
invited. f
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S SOCCER: Roanoke College.

 

Friday, October 9 :

HOMECOMING WEEKEND. ‘
12:10 p.m. — JOHN RANDOLPH TUCKER LECTURE: “‘Affirmative
Action in Employment — The Continuing Dilemma Over Statutory
and Constitutional Limitations,” Circuit Judge Harry T. Edwards, +
U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia. Moot Courtroom, Lewis

Hall. Public invited. :

3 p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: W&L Invitational. Varsity Courts. t
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WATER POLO: South-East Varsity In-

vitational (Oct. 9-11). f

Saturday, October 10 ;

HOMECOMING WEEKEND. '

10:45 a.m. — HOMECOMING CONCERT: W&L Glee Club, Chorus,
and Southern Comfort. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

11:30 a.m. — MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Catholic ;
University.

11:30 a.m. — WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Randolph- Macon Col- '
lege (Ashland). New Alumni Field. '
1:30 p.m. — FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Maryville College. ‘Wilson

Field. ‘
2 p.m. — MEN’S TENNIS: W&L Invitational. Varsity Courts. ‘
3 p.m. — MEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Messiah College. Smith

Field. ,

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY: Division ,
II and III State Meet, Newport News, Va.

 

 

  

F dined >.)
he ie *

td

 
  

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. Calvin and Hobbes. by Bill Watterson. (Andrews, McMee! &
Parker, $6.95.) Cartoons about the life of a littie boy.

2. Red Storm Rising, ay eee $4.95.)
Russians plan a major assault on the West

3. eee on Tee Coenen cae ewes (Little,
Brown, $7.95.) Latest Bloom County cartoons. ie

4. Wanderlust, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $4.95) é
Romance of a young woman's world-wide adventures. 1

5. Act of Will, by Barbara Taylor Bradtord. (Bantam, $4.95.)
The lives of ambitious women spanning three generations

6. A Matter of Honor, by Jeffrey Archer. (Pocket, $4.95) F
International thrills and intrigues.

7. Wt, by Stephen King. (NAL/Signet, $4.95.) Chikdhood horrors haunt
six men and women who lived in a Maine town.
8. The Road Less Traveled, by Scott Peck (Touchstone, $8.95.)

. Psychological and spiritual inspiration by a psychiatrist. ‘
9. School is Hell, by Matt Groening. (Pantheon, $5.95.) j
A child's point of view of a grown-up world.

Hollywood Husbands, by Jackie Collins. (Pocket, $4.95.) New
York model's encounters with Los Angeles’ most dynamic men. 14

Companc by Seceron 15 1087 Py

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New & Recommended

A persona! satecon of Jan Pierce Urevermty Co-op Soctsty

The Beet Queen, by Louise Erdrich. (Bantam, $4.50.) Characters in ‘4
this family drama clash, draw apart, and meet again. A story grounded {
in the tenacity of relationships, and the mystery of the human condition. «4
Greenwich Killing Time, by Kinky Friedman. (Berkley, $3.5C!
The corpse is found holding pink roses. Suspects are as strane as
the crime, and the detective is a country singer named Kinky Friedman. *
Joe Bob Goes to the Drive-in, by Joe Bob Briggs. (Delacorte, $8.95.) La”
eee and an unlikely :

Pd

 

a

Yi Pe

 

 

. W&l Snack

Good Luck Generals!

Open Sat. 9-2

Serving Quick Lunch & Snacks

Bar

And

 

 

 

Hand Crafted Jewelry
Silver & Porcelain
Oriental Brush Painting
And More!

Artists In Cahoots
Gallery

Old Main St. Mall

 

Mon.-Saf. 10-5 p.m.

 

101 W. Nelson Sf.

 

Welcome Alumni & Guests

Meet Your Friends At

The PALMS

Serving Lunch and Dinner
Special Sunday Brunch 12-3 p.m.

463-7911

 

 

 

Part-Time Help Wanted

Must be able to work evenings and weekends.

106 W. Washington St., Lexington, Va

On campus Travel Representative
or organization needed to promote
Spring Break Trip to Florida. Earn

Apply in person at: —
Call - Inter-Campus Programs
Sweet Things Ice Cream Shoppe iaenanseney

 

 

 

Alvin Benniz

Welcome W&L Alumni
Sero shirts, Woolrich, IZOD and Deans

sweaters,
corduroys,
Walkover,

bund and tie sets. Rugby shirts

Woolrich outerwear, dress
Duckhead khakis,

Bass,

Clark & Topsider shoes.
After-Six Formal Wear - fancy cummer-

W&L

belts and ties. Camhmere sweaters.

Ceramic gifts for sale

Rack of year-round and summer suits

reduced 20%

102 W. Washington St.
463-5383

Visa

MasterCharge

Choice Student Charge

 
