j

VOLUME 87, NUMBER 14

Che King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 21, 1988

 

| Wilson speaks on the
. State of the University

‘

>

 

By Sean Bugg
Staff Reporter

 

Fraternity house renovation under
the Renaissance Program will com-
mence when fraternities have adopted
new standards released by the uni-
versity, said W&L president John D.
Wilson in the keynote address at
Tuesday’s Omicron Delta Kappa
Founders’ Day celebration.

Wilson called the Renaissance Pro-
gram ‘‘by far the largest challenge on
our agenda.”’

Referring to the newly released
study, Washington and Lee University
Standards for Fraternities, Wilson
said, *‘They are really very ordinary,
but they must be adopted. ’”

The standards call for fraternities to
have sound financial policies and an
annual budget, provisions for house
maintenance, revised by-laws outlin-
ing the organization of the chapter, as
well as other standards.

Wilson said, ‘‘The cynical can say
‘here we go again,’ yet another at-
tempt to encourage the improvement
of the W&L fraternity system.”’

However, he told the audience that
the standards, along with the ‘‘Report
of the Fraternity Housing Renovation
Steering Committee,’’ represent a
“new beginning’ for the W&L
fraternity system.

Wilson also spoke about the pro-
posed restructuring of Rush, the
system by which fraternities acquire
new members for their organizations.
He said the review of the system was
prompted not by the Standards, but by
a petition signed by over 100 faculty
members.

Wilson said he did not completely
understand the Rush rules or how they
could be improved.

“I’m guessing that that is partly
what the petition is trying to say,”’
Wilson said. ‘We have a crazy-quilt
patchwork of rules and procedures
that no one fully understands any-
more.”

The question of next year’s Rush
will be discussed in the next few
weeks, Wilson said. He expressed a
hope that the basic purposes of Rush,
obtaining a solid pledge class for the

By Betsy Parkins
Staff Reporter

 

In order to avert a move to January
Rush, the Interfraternity Council de-
cided it must make concessions in its
bylaws.

In the IFC meeting on Tuesday
night, IFC President Mark Farley
went over a series of amendments to
both its 1988 Rush calendar and its by-
laws.

Members first decided to make
several changes in its Informal Rush
dates. These include allowing Chapter
Houses to have one Rush date at a
country residence that the fraternity
might have. Restrictions on the use of
country houses include providing
transportation to and from the country
house, allowing only one of the two

houses, and allowing entering students
to adjust to campus life and such, will
be remembered by those involved.

Wilson said there were ‘‘lots of
fears and lots of unknowns Surround-
ing this subject.’’ These include the
financial problems possible with a de-
layed Rush and the effect on the pat-
tern of social life, he said.

‘*There may be some surface in-
compatibilities,"’ he said, ‘‘but let’s
hope we can reconcile these and get on
with the basic reconstruction of our
entire system.”’

Wilson also spoke about the condi-
tion of the university, especially with
the stock market crash last October.

**T believe the state of the university
is sound,’’ Wilson said.

Wilson said the annual Fund was
down in donors but up in money, and
he said the budget was in good shape.
The decline in the stock market resul-
ted in a decline in the value of W&L’s
portfolio of 6.5 percent as of Oct. 20,
he said.

The financial situation ‘‘is not as
bright as it was,’’ Wilson said. With
costs up, the university must find
ways to support new positions, salary
adjustment needs, financial aid and
supplies and equipment with money
from tuition, annual giving and the
endowment income, he said.

However, he said the university
would have to avoid becoming accus-
tomed to the increase in tuition re-
venue that has been generated by the
excess enrollment, which should be
diminished in the coming years by the
lowering of the freshman class size.

The size of the freshman class has
been reduced from 420 to 400, he
said, due to the unforseen retention
rate the university has had recently.

Wilson said the fund-raising process
for the proposed Performing Arts
Center was progressing well. By Dec.
31 of 1987 $4.5 million had been
raised for the construction, he said,
which the university hopes to begin in
May or June.

Wilson spoke about the archi-
tectural history of the campus in the
beginning of his speech, admiring the
way architectural mistakes of the past
have been corrected and the dedica-
tion of the men and women who have

IFC proposes changes

Informal Rush dates to be held at the
country house, and requiring that the
function have no alcohol. The IFC
will enforce these rules by registering
the functions and possibly having spot
checks at the Rush dates by the IFC.

Women were also mentioned with
respect to all Rush Functions. A mo-
tion was passed to keep the current re-
gulations that allow women from
W&L to attend certain Rush func-
iions, including the Informal Rush
functions, but not ali of them.

Finally, alcohol consumption by
freshmen was discussed by the mem-
bers. Farley was concerned about the
number of freshmen who had to go to
the emergency room this past year
after the ban on alcohol ws lifted.

Thomas Wolfe, '51, to

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-Editor

Tom Wolfe, author of The Bonfire
of the Vanities and The Right Stuff,
will speak in Evans Dining Hall at
8:30 p.m. on Thursday, Jan. 28.

Wolfe, a 1951 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee and a member of the
Board of Trustees, will be in Lexing-
ton for the board meeting Jan. 28-30.

Wolfe’s speech is sponsored by
Contact and is being advertised as

‘An Evening With Tom Wolfe ’51."°
The speech is free and open to the
public.

A native of Richmond, Wolfe atten-
ded St. Christopher’s, an Episcopal
prep school. He was an honors stu-
dent, student council chairman, and
co-editor of his high school paper.

While at Washington and Lee, ac-
cording a recent article in Vanity Fair,
Wolfe found he could compete against

W&L's wealth and its adoration of

sports by writing about sports for the
school paper and by publishing short

 

contributed to the W&L
through generous donations.

“I can be forgiven, I hope, my
preoccupation with buildings,”’ he
said, ‘‘having learned from Gaines
[Residence] Hall how damnably diffi-
cult it is to finish one.”’

Gaines is well behind schedule,
Wilson said, partly because of the de-

lays involved. with - the Gatehouse’
structur€, which is complicated ‘be’

cause of the way it connects two wings
of the building.

However, the university is planning
for a spring dedication, he said.

campus

 

By Perry es The Ring-tum Phi
President John D. Wilson delivers the Founders Day address.

Wilson said the admissions office
was predicting over 3,000 applica-
tions for 400 spaces in the next year’s
incoming freshman class. Twenty-five
percent of those spaces have already
been filled with early decision appli-
cants, Wilson said.

Wilson told the audience of recent
developments in the W&L community
that reflect positive growth. In the
fall, students will be able to participate
for credit in the University- Rock-
bridge Symphony Orchestra, which
Wilson hopes will be a ‘fruitful town-
gown cooperation.”

in Rush calendar

‘‘We put a record number of fresh-
men in the hospital this year, and
something has got to be done about
it,’’ Farley said. The parties on Sept.
16 and 17 would be limited to beer,
the IFC decided. In addition, the beer
must not be distributed from a com-
munal source.

“If it gets to the point where you
[the fraternity ]has all the beer hoarded
in the ice-chest and freshmen are al-
lowed to pick it out, then that’s a
communal source,”’ Farley said.

The IFC went on to make several
important changes in its bylaws.
These changes were in response to a
faculty and SAC recommendation that
Rush be moved to January. Farley
cited several reasons why Rush in
January would be unwise.

“It would lengthen Rush, it would

be difficult to enforce, and it would
generate ill-will,’’ Farley said.

The IFC however, felt that it was
important to make concessions in or-
der to avert deferred Rush, on which
the faculty has final say. Rather than
fight the faculty and appear bull-
headed about changes Farley sug-
gested that two areas be amended,
deferred pledgeship and the length of
pledge training.

As it stands, once a pledge has
‘torn’ and officially become a pledge
at the house, pledgeship begins. For
some houses, the pledge period may
last until spring term.

The faculty has asked that this time
period be lessened to ten weeks. The
IFC thinks that this period is too short
if pledges are to fully learn about the
fraternity.

speak in dining hall

stories. He pitched for the varsity
[baseball] team, pledged a Richmond-
boys’ fraternity, and flouted the dress
code ‘‘out of contrariness,’’ he re-
members, with styles that were both
hyper- English and Hollywood tough-
guy. He is one of the co- founders of
Shenandoah, W&L’s quarterly litera-
ry magazines.

After Washington and Lee, Wolfe
earned his Ph.D. from Yale. He has
worked as a reporter and writer for the
Springfield, Mass. Union, the Wash-
ington Post and the New York Herald
Tribune.

According the Vanity Fair article,
Wolfe first began writing fiction at
W&L. Wolfe participated in an fiction
seminar that took place at The Dutch
Inn, which was at that time a local bar.

‘We read our work aloud,'’ Wolfe
recalls, ‘‘and that could be brutal."’
He was disquieted by the credo that
“the only valid subject matter was
something you knew very personally
within your own life.’’ Or, as his
classmate novelist William Hoffman

See Wolfe, page 4

SAC lifts Delt’s
probation early

 

By Jennifer Bandrowski
Staff Reporter

 

Delta Tau Delta had a year of social
probation suspended after only five
months after an appeal to the Student
Affairs Committee by fraternity
president Kevin Webb.

The year of probation was imposed
after an incoming freshman was ser-
iously injured following a Delt Sum-
mer Rush party in July.

‘‘We made a 20-page report and
submitted it to the Student Affairs
Committee, detailing our progress
since social probation,’’ Webb said.

Webb prepared the report with the
assistance of Pearson Keyes.

The improvements cited included
raising the house GPA from 17th to
seventh place, resolving all past tax
problems, reforming the house cor-
poration, and improving the fraterni-
ty’s overall campus involvement.

In addition, the Delts performed an
array of charity services, from clean-
ing Stonewall Jackson cemetery to ra-
ising funds for polio and multiple
sclerosis research. Delt junior Ian
Thompson also arranged an alcohol
awareness week.

The report was strengthened by a
petition with 400 signatures from stu-
dents, faculty and alumni voicing their
support for Delt.

‘Financially, we're doing fine,”’
Webb said. ‘‘We’re under the uni-
versity billing system and getting
along all right for a small house. ”’

IFC President Mark Farley com-
mented, ‘‘I think it’s a very positive
thing for the fraternity system. It was

an unfortunate accident, but I’m
pleased that the Delts responded so
positively to their punishment. Many
other houses would have rebelled and
in the end brought about their down-
fall. Instead, the house rallied around
the leadership of Kevin Webb and
lasted out a difficult 12 weeks. I think
that Kevin and all the Delts are to be
commended for insuring their house’s
survival.”’

Associate Dean Leroy C. Atkins
was also pleased with the Delts’ posi-
tive response. ‘‘They had made so
many improvements and gains during
the time they were on probation. and
they responded in such a_ positive
way,”” he said.

Delt had their first party last Friday.
**Being the first party, it was BYOB,”’
Webb said. Currently their national
fraternity will not allow them to spend
house funds on alcohol. However,
that policy is *‘possible to repeal—it’s
in limbo right now,’* Webb said.

At the party there were signs
posted, ‘*‘Don’t drink and drive. If
you’re had too much to drink, ask a
brother for a ride.’’ There were five
designated drivers present at the
party. Webb described it as ‘‘under
control for such a large party.””

According to Webb, **All social and
rushing privileges have been rein-
stated. We will formally start rushing
this weekend with open houses... it
will be our own Rush, following all
school guidelines as well as our
national fraternity guidelines.”

Webb added that, ‘‘the brothers of
Delta Tau Delta would like to thank
the W&L community for its support
during this past term.’

ODK taps twenty-four

 

By Sean Bugg
Staff Reporter

 

W&L’s chapter of Omicron Delta
Kappa tapped 24 students and three
honorary initiates during the Foun-
ders’ Day celebration Tuesday.

The new initiates were introduced
by senior Steve Cassell, president of
the W&L chapter of ODK. He told the
audience that W&L has never had a
shortage of leaders.

‘We are a product of our envir-
onment,”’ he said.

A national honorary fraternity that
recognizes leadership achievements,
ODK was founded at W&L in 1914.

The three honorary initiates were
John W. Elrod, G. David Low and
Stewart Morris.

Elrod is dean of the college at
W&L. He received his master’s and
doctorate in philosophy at Columbia
University, and before coming to
WAL served as chairman of the philo-
sophy department at Iowa State Uni-

versity.

Low, a 1978 graduate of W&L,
where he earned a degree in physics-
engineering, has been involved in the
planning of several planetary missions
while working with the Spacecraft
Systems Engineering Section at Cali-
fornia Institute of Technology. In
1985 Low qualified for assignment as
an astronaut on future space shuttle
missions.

Morris, of Houston, works with
Stewart Title, a network of 1,200 of-
fices and agencies. The Morris
House, on the W&L campus, was
named for him and his wife, whose
large gift to the university made the
restoration of the house possible.

Twenty-four W&L students were
inducted into ODK in the Founders’
Day ceremony.

From the law school were: David B.
Carson of La Jolla, Calif.; John E.

Halloran of Manchester, N.H.; Wil-
liam W. Senft, of Lexington, Va.; and
David A. Walsh of Richmond, Va.

(ISee ODK, page 5

Latture picture pilfered

By Betsy Parkins
Staff Reporter

 

Crime in the University Center con-
tinued Wednesday, Jan. 13 when a
27-year-old painting of Rupert Latture
was stolen from Evans Dining Hall.

The theft of the painting is the se-
cond incident of crime in the Universi-
ty Center in the last three weeks. Van-
dals damaged the Career De-
velopment Center bulletin board by
pulling off clip- boards and tearing
down posters.

According to Charles ‘*‘Murph”’
Murray, director of W&L Campus
Security, the painting of Latture was
taken after midnight from the dining
hall and returned by mail Monday
morning.

“Whoever took the painting also
may have done some damage in the

bathroom beneath the dining hall.
They soaped **DU*’ [Delta Upsilon
fraternity} on the mirrors down
there,’’ said Murray.

Washington and Lee Security specu-
lates that members of the Delta Upsi-
lon fraternity at either the Roanoke
College or Virginia Tech campuses
may have taken the painting as part of
pledge activities.

‘The painting was returned this
morning [Monday, Jan. 18] and the
postmark was from Salem, Virginia.
We called down to Virginia Tech se-
curity because that Wednesday night
Steve Tomlinson [W&L security] took
down a license plate number from a
car that had a Virginia Tech sticker on
it,’” Murray said.

Rupert Latture was a teacher at

See Picture, page 5

University hopes to renovate all fraternity houses by Sept. 1993

 

By David Emrich
Co-Editor

 

In order to realize the goals W&L
set in the recently published Washing-
ton and Lee Standards for Fraternities
the university has begun a program
designed to renovate all the existing
chapter houses by as early as Sept.
1993.

According to Associate Dean Leroy
C. Atkins the renovation program is
“geared toward putting all of our
fraternity houses in the condition
where they would have another 50
years of useful life as really quality
places to live and quality places to
have parties.”’

This past summer, VMDO Archi-

tects in Charlottesville did a feasibility
study of all the fraternity houses. The
company inspected each house and
made recommendations about the
types of repairs that would be needed.
They then estimated the cost of the re-
pairs and will present the information
to the Board of Trustees at their Jan.
29 meeting.

The university is going to use
VMDO'’s studies as the basis for the
future renovations of the houses. But
before any renovations take place, At-
kins said the fraternities are going to
have to comply with the university's
recently published standards.

‘*The houses that are ready first,”’
said Atkins, ‘*because they’re in com-
pliance with the standards, because
they've got a good active house cor

Mb antl etna ib me

poration that’s in compliance with the
standards and they want to get the
work done and they've begun to iden-
tify some sources of capital to do it,
they're going to be the people that
would go first.”’

According to Atkins, judgments as
to who is the most prepared will be
made by the Fraternity House Renova
tion Steering Committee. That com
mittee will review applications begin-
ning either this spring or summer. The
committee will then consult with other
university Organizations to assess the
relative preparedness of all parts of
the chapters

Said Atkins, *‘What [the Renova
tion Steering Committee] will do is to
look to the Alumni Fraternity Council
to evaluate the strength and readiness
of the house corporation, they'll look

to the IFC and the Student Affairs
Committee to evaluate the strength of
the chapter.

**Part of what they'll look to, in ad-
dition to weighing all that, is the need.
A chapter that’s got the worst prob-
lems physically but also seems to be
prepared to handle the cost of the
project would certainly be one of the
first ones to be eligible.

‘The point is that once the whole
program is in place and people are
ready to proceed it will be a fair, or-
derly process. So that somebody
might gain a slight advantage for a
year, having a nice house, but even
tually will
house

‘*It would probably take at least
four summers to get the whole thing

completed.”

everyone have’ a_ nice

Atkins stressed, however, that the
university would not provide a great
deal of money towards the renova-
tions. Rather, he said it will be up to
the individual house corporations to
raise the bulk of the capital.

Said Atkins, ‘‘I don’t foresee large
parts of the cost of that project being
borne by the university.

‘Primarily the intent is for the
fraternity houses to continue to be
owned dnd operated by alumni groups
that make up the house corporation. ”’

However, Atkins said, under cer-
tain conditions the relationship be-
tween the individual chapters and the
alumni groups may have to be modi
fied.

‘For the purposes of coming up
with enough money to do the [renova
tions] right, we might have to make

some revisions in how that [re-
lationship] works. But it wouldn't be a
situation in which the house corpora
tion would lose their autonomy in the
operation of the house, or the chapters
would lose their autonomy."*

The house corporations of each
chapter have seen the architect's study
and estimates and have an idea of the
amount of money they need to raise.
Atkins is optimistic that every house
will be able to afford the renovations.

Said Atkins, *‘I think that what the
university is going to provide instead
of university funds is university sup
port in a way that everybody that’s got
the strength of their house corporation
and the strength of a good strong chap
ter that they will be able to come up
with the money.”’
 

 

OPINION
Standards

As part of his Founders’ Day address, university president John
D. Wilson discussed the future of the Fraternity Renaissance Pro-
gram, which will begin when fraternities adopt the standards re-
cently set forth in a report by the Fraternity House Renovation
Steering Committee.

These standards include written by-laws outlining the rules of the
fraternity (including responsible use of alcohol and the prohibition
of illegal drugs in the houses); conducting ‘‘a responsible pledge
education program that conforms to the Interfraternity Council’s
regulations; conducting a social program adhering to the IFC’s re-
gulations; and promoting ‘‘academic excellence and intellectual
growth among its members. ‘*

The physical standards for the houses require that they not only
conform to fire, safety, health and sanitation codes; they must also
provide ‘‘bedroom and bath facilities of a quality at least equal to
the best residence hall accommodations provided by the Universi-
ty.“

‘*They are really very ordinary,’’ said Wilson, ‘‘but they must be
adopted.’’ He said the standards must be adopted before the renova-
tion begins in order for the whole program to ‘‘make sense.”’

We agree with president Wilson’s assessment and the standards
that have been set forth by the Steering Committee’s report. The
fraternity system at Washington and Lee needs to be overhauled,
and the time to do it is know, while the momentum is there.

Wilson is correct in citing the many problems with the current
fraternity system. Most of the houses are in a run-down condition
and leadership is weak in many key places. Until these problems are
corrected W&L will never have a fraternity system of a level of
excellence comparable to the university itself.

Another development we are glad to see is the reduction of the
size of the entering freshman class. It’s wonderful that the universi-
ty is retaining more students than they had planned, but it is not
good that the size of the university seems to be growing all around
us. Washington and Lee is a small liberal arts institution. The tea-
cher/student ratio leads to a more comfortable relationship with the
faculty and a better education. The university needs to remain this
type of institution.

It seems that the Performing Arts Center will be a reality in the
future. The fund-raising is going well, and the university is hoping
to begin construction on the facility in June. Hopefully, they will
not run into any of the problems that they have experienced with the
Gaines Residence Hall. Still, we think the center will be a very val-
uable addition to the W&L community.

All in all, it is good to hear that the university is in good condi-
tion, even if the financial situation is not as good as it was before the
October stock market crash. Still, with the loyal alumni and friends
of the university, we believe W&L be sound far into the future.

 

 

CAND THEN HE SAID IT MADE HIM NERVOUS,
YA KNOW LIKE, TO BE WITH ME IN CLASS
THE NEXT DAY, YA KNOW LIKE, AFTER A DATE.” |

|
|
CY |
in |
|
aalties sg

ce Shp a pA
EW aN - A ;
— | )

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1988

 

 

  
 
  

 

Pr Know =
could stap
anytime

 

 

A compromise for the frats and the Hill

 

MY VIEW
By Mike Hassinger

 

If you were bored enough to listen
closely to the current discussion over
the problems with the Rush calendar
at W and L, you would notice that in
between all the hot air and differing
opinions there is one recurring theme:
Nobody likes it. I mean NOBODY.
Not the faculty, which seems to think
that fraternities are religious organiza-
tions which worship the demon rum
and conspire to turn freshmen into in-
dentured servants with low grades,
nor. the fraternity members who see

_ “the hil?’ as an extension of the

Women’s Temperance Union trying
to impose a Draconian system of rules
regardless of the effect on the frater-
nity system. Such talk, on either side,
is both inaccurate and unfair.

Out of this rhetorical pushing and
pulling, however, has come a new
proposal which is at once both radica-
lly different and in line with what I
like to call the ‘told W & L.”’ It comes
from members of the faculty who have

had enough experience with fraterni-
ties (either at their colleges or W&L)
to see that fraternities do not have to
be a stumbling block to the learning
experience and that they really do
have something to offer to those who
join. It is called ‘‘deferred pledging”’
but is actually a compromise which
should please almost everyone and
give the hard-core malcontents some-
thing they can live with.

The Compromise proposal would
replace the current Rush with one
which is actually longer. Instead of
two or three frantic weeks of intensity
followed by up to twenty academic
weeks of pledgeship, Fall term would
consist of the first two weeks in which
no freshmen were allowed on frater-
nity property but open contact on
campus would be encouraged. This
would allow freshmen to see exactly
what is expected of them academically
before having to deal with Rush. It
would also allow them to make their
own friends and meet fraternity men
in an academic environment. Rush
would begin on the Friday night after
the first full week of classes.

The type of Rush which would take
place would be different as well.
Rather than having seventeen houses
competing against each other for the
best bands, three or four houses close
to each other would have live music
on one weekend night, while the other

thirteen or fourteen would have either
‘‘closed’’ parties to which they could
invite up to thirty freshmen, or ‘‘pri-
vate’’ parties limited to members and
dates only. Which houses get what
type of party on which weekend would
be predetermined, based on a house’s
performance during the previous
years’ Rush. Like the NFL draft,
those houses which did poorly would
be given the ’’prime’’ party nights.
This would be Fall term partying at W
& L, with the exceptions of Home-
coming and Parent’s Weekend, during
which the fraternities would have their
choice.

The primary rule to the Compro-
mise proposal would be that no fresh-
men would be allowed to pledge a
fraternity until the second term. This
means that he would not assume the
pledge duties until that time, though
he could, at a predetermined date, as-
sociate (or ‘‘tear’’) with a house and
begin paying. social dues. This would
relieve some of the financial burden
on fraternities without putting the in-
tensity of pledgeship on a freshman in
his first term.

All freshmen who participate in
Rush would have to be out of frater-

nity houses by a reasonable hour (say,

10:00 p.m.) on Sunday through
Thursday nights during fall term,
thereby giving them time to be well-
rested and maybe even prepared for

class the next day. Fraternities could «
use the weeknights to invite the
freshman to dinner, and each could
see the other in an atmosphere which
is not as alcohol-intensive as a party.

If the Compromise Deferred pledg-
ing plan is to be truly effective,it
would need cooperation between
fraternities and the university, some-
thing which is now nonexistent. Con-
cessions could be made on both sides, |
with the fraternities agreeing not to
purchase alcohol for band or closed *
parties and the university providing |
security and a shuttle service to and
from the dorms. (Only those with a
DUI quota to fill would be opposed to,
this.)

This proposal, like all proposals, is
not perfect. W & L would need a Rush
board to oversee the system, especial-
ly during the first couple of years. But
many of the problems have been wor-
ked out by those faculty members who
were willing to sit down and work on *
what has been a constant problem at ,
this school for years. A plan which is
radically different from what we now
have has been proposed. This plan
would change the dynamics Rush
from competition to cooperation, al-
low both fraternities and freshmen
greater selectivity and strengthen both
the fraternity system and the universi- *
ty. Taking the vurry out of Rush will»
benefit everyone.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEW STAFF

CO i OA ig se Marie Dunne
David Emrich

ee Peter Boatner
Ra TT ois va 56 inh ei oe a Chris Munsey
Ga TION aoc nin cn sce ccncdn te tne ccc taeesscstsiveccisecns: ee Oe
BMntertatsmont MAMOr sec eeedccccecnveserccsecccesevscoseece Michael Tuggle
Phntemre ily BAMer.. ccc csccccsensceedectosecesccsccecucescdsovceess Perry Hayes
OE Katherine Graci

OPINION PAGE STAFF
Rebibowienl Pane Bbi0e o11.000cssccssssscoonsessactecsvoesonsccsenscenssncssessstensscesescencesscoossecgesseses mil MME
CUPUUOUIIE ATi isi ssa ds sscvesssedscicisnesenediadcesssetsscseseccecendsescnecscssasceeesscasacisteetouso egies IEEE
BUSINESS STAFF

CoBupineta MQWRMOIh. ccc cies ici ablencecce ese easssee cr eeereieres Rhona Hughes
Jason Faust

Advertising MaMager....cccerccccsecnsevcccecseceerseronceeeoers Christie Champlin
Circulation Mamager oo... cccccccseccccccecesecsccsccsescussesseceess Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

To the student body of Washington & Lee
Univ. (or select members thereof),

I would like to thank you all for allowing me to
be a rich, preppie, bigot. At most institutions, a
student such as I would be expected to act with a
measure of mature understanding, but here my ig-
norance is tolerated - and sometimes praised. As a
Senior, I couldn’t help but reminisce about some
of my more inconsiderate moments at W & L.

I recall just the other day, for instance, scratch-
ing a tribute to our revered Honor System right on
the wall of a university elevator for everyone to
admire. After all, such a weighty subject deserves
public praise (I reserve my less insightful scrib-
blings for the university bathrooms). And then
there was the loud party - complete with brew -
b which was held in the University Library. It was
almost as fun as watching the surrounding stu-
dents when I chew tobacco in class. Perhaps I'll
start smoking in the classroom next!

My fonder moments, however, have come at
the expense of minority students and other unac-

the United States bigotry is frowned upon. I cer-
tainly am glad that isn’t the case with many of my
gentleman friends here at Washington & Lee. I
recall particularly this year’s Halloween party.
One prankster came dressed as a KKK member
and had the crowd in stitches! I mean some blacks
are alright, but they aren't ‘‘niggers.** It was ter-
ribly fortunate when the patriotic citizens of For-
sythe County, Georgia reminded us that ignorant
racism is still fashionable in a great many places.
Indeed, the University itself seems to support our
prejudiced cause. W&L just skipped right over
Martin Luther King Day with hardly a notice. I,
myself, was not aware of the holiday until I de-
faced the public notice hanging in the Lexington
Post Office. Why, the administration even sche-
duled another lecture at the same time the campus
Minority Student Association sponsored Lexing-
ton’s only memorial service for Dr. King. I also
heard with great delight that a number of students
were encouraged to attend the former to fulfill
class requirements. | love university support! Of
course, animals are another matter. I love ani-
mals. There’s nothing quite as amusing as watch-
ing my favorite dog get hammered drinking the
beer in his watering dish. When the party gets
really wild, I might blow pot smoke in his face
just to see him stoned. I even remember earlier in
the year some guys on campus had a pet pig. It’s
too bad they dropped it trying to steal it back from
the SPCA (Society for the PREVENTION of

 

ceptables. I’ve heard rumors that in some parts of

LETTERS

Cruelty to Animals). I think one of the guys got in
trouble for paralysing the little sucker and is sup-
posed to present SPCA lectures at the university,
although I haven’t seen any notices yet. I’m sure
he feels really bad though. Finally, when the
weekend rolls around, I get to abuse some cheese
(the W&L gentleman’ s word for a lady). I never
wanted crack (another inspired euphemism) here
in the first place, and I certainly don’t intend to
accept them with any sort of tolerance and grace. I
don’t even consider the coeds unless they’re as
self-important as I, or they try to date some VMI
loser. Girls are only good for one thing anyway,
and if they play hard to get I just have to show
them some ‘‘rough love.‘* Heck, something con-
sidered as a felony in the outside world is rather
fun here at college. Most cheese deserves it any-
way, right? Well, I’ve truly enjoyed recapping my
career at Washington & Lee, and I wish future
classes as much fun as I’ve encountered here. The
most important thing to remember is never let the
open-minded, left-wing, humanitarians get to
you. They’re probably just here for academic
reasons anyway. Even my father used to say that
‘ta gentleman is someone who never hurts anyone
on purpose, because he’ll hurt enough people ac-
cidentally.‘‘Obviously, he did not foresee the
1980’s or the need to step on others in this dog-
eat-dog world of monetary indulgences. Thank
the Lord for Washington & Lee, where a student
can practice such intolerance and malignity before
entering the real world.
Callously Yours,
Ivon (Trey) H. Lowsley Ill
Self-Servers, Inc.

Challenge to Pimblett

To the editor:

Your first issue for 1988 included a very en-
lightening editorial by one of your staffers, Mar-
garet Pimblett. Her call for human rights activism
at W&L should be the battle cry for every socially
conscience student here. Her button should be the
beginning of a tradition of civil and human rights
demonstrations and statements for the student
body of this university.

W&L has a long standing tradition of conservat-
ism, but it is time for a change. Other great uni-
versities in this country have set the precedent. To
show our social awareness and concern for human
rights, some form of demonstration should be
made. Surely W&L students can understand that
their beautiful campus for which they pay a hea-

A letter of thanks for W&L’s special qualities

Ithy tuition is worth compromising for the right
cause. The Lexington news media could and
should be treated to the sudden appearance of a
‘*shanty town’’ or a student protest march in re-
sponse to Russia’s refusal to withdraw from Af-
ganistan immediately or the plight of the Polish
Solidarity movement. Human rights are being vio-
lated and it time for W&L to take notice and take
action!!

George Washington led Americans in our Revo-
lutionary War. He fought for freedom, liberty,
and basic human rights. Similar to our fore-
fathers fight for “‘life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness’’ is the struggle of the Nicaraguan free-
dom fighters. Can students here sit by and watch
these heroes of democracy die trying to gain hu-
man freedom and rights for their country? As stu-
dents at Washington and Lee, it is our duty and
honor to demonstrate our support for these defen-
ders of the rights of man.

I’m sure Miss Pimblett would agree that these
violations of human rights, while often forgotten
in the press, although undoubtedly not for politi-
cal reasons, are worthy of the attention and action
of the student body at W&L. And I challenge Miss
Pimblett to lead W&L into a new era of human
rights activism.

Cordially, Pat Heffernan ’91
Thanks MSA

To the editor:

I would like to thank the W&L Minority Stu-
dents Association for sponsoring the memorial
service held this past Monday evening in honor of
Dr. Martin Luther King’s birthday. I felt it was a
most fitting celebration of the life of the man and
the ideas for which he stood. In particular, I found
Reverand Robinson’s address most inspiring; it
made me think about both the great strides we
have taken and, even more, the necessary leaps
that must still be made before this country really is
a place where ‘‘all men are equal.’’ I was dis-
appointed, howeven in the low attendance by the
student body. Even if one did not wish to cele-
brate the life of Reverand King, it was more a cle-
bration of his ideas for equality, peace, and love. I
feel it would have said a lot for the student body to
have shown its support for these ideas. Again, I
thank those responsible for the service.

Sincerely,
Harley Walsh

 

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1988

 

Political analyst speaks to Convention leadership

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-Editor

Larry J. Sabato, associate professor
of government and foreign affairs at
the University of Virginia and one of
the country’s leading political
analysts, gave a workshop for state
and regional chairmen of the Mock
Convention on Saturday from | p.m.
to5 p.m.

Sabato gave a 45-minute general
lecture for the state chairmen and held
five half-hour question and answer
periods for each of the regions.

““T’ve really have heard about the

convention for years and I’ve read
about it and I’ve always been very im-
pressed by it,’’ said Sabato.

‘‘T wish that more universities had
something like this because it’s a mar-
velous tool for civic education. ”’

Sabato gave students an ‘‘overview
of the process’’ including ways to
make the most accurate prediction
possible.

Students should ‘‘talk to the politi-
cal people, rather than merely reading
news stories and so on.’’ He sug-
gested that students try to stay in close
contact with elected officials such as
congressmen and governors and their
staffs. These officials have ‘‘their ears
to the ground’’ and can offer the most

Rutigliano speaks on
drug and alcohol abuse

 

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

 

In the opinion of Sam Rutigliano,
former head coach of the Cleveland
Browns, America is fighting a losing
battle against drugs and alcohol. It is a
losing battle at this point because it is
a problem that most Americans will
not admit.

In his speech to kick off Drug and
Alcohol Awareness Week, Rutigliano
told his story. He began fighting back
against drugs by forming the Inner
Circle, a program designed to educate
his players about drugs and alcohol
abuse and to treat those who had a
problem.

The Inner Circle is actually an in-
vestment for the Cleveland Browns
because it has saved the lives of eleven
players to date and continues to work
successfully, said Rutigliano.

After one of his players came to him
with a drug problem, Rutigliano de-
cided to take action. With the help of
Dr. Greg Collins, a psychologist from
the Cleveland Clinic; Paul Warfield
and Calvin Hill, former NFL players;
and Tom Petersburg, a counselor for
Athletes in Action, Rutigliano formed
his team.

Speakers, including “toXicologists,
ex-addicts, and psychologists began
the program by educating the players
on the dangers of abuse. Once a player
admitted his problem, Rutigliano sent
him to a rehabilitation center for
treatment.

Unlike most NFL drug and alcohol
programs, the Inner Circle has an
after-care program as well. Though
weekly sessions with psychologists,
support group meetings and drug
screenings, the players are able to
continue their careers and move for-
ward with their lives, the coach said.

The main problem Rutigliano finds
in dealing with drug and alcohol abuse
is that it evolves from peer pressure.
Most of the players he has worked
with found the desire for peer appro-
val began in high school, and the prob-
lem intensified in college.

Once his players made the final cut
in the NFL, peer pressure continued;
however, the stakes in playing the
game now included cocaine. With the
salaries his players were making,
some were supporting habits of
$4,000 a week.

For the Cleveland Browns and oth-
ers influenced by his philosophy, Ru-
tigliano served as a father figure as
well as a friend. He finds it is best not
to moralize but to serve as a vehicle
for solving the problem. The solution
to the problem also lies in the indivi-
dual because, according to Rutigliano,
‘*the ones who fail choose to.”’

To Rutigliano education is the key
to ending the problem in America.
Although he is ‘no longer with the
Cleveland Browns, Rutigliano speaks
to students, church groups, and other
organizations nationwide. Currently
he is a football analyst for NBC and
hosts ESPN’s Monday Night Match-
Up.

accurate information.

Sabato said that although students
should pay attention to media cover-
age of the candidates, he cautioned
that they shouldn’t base their opinions
exclusively on information offered
from the media.

The biggest problem facing the
delegates is that the convention comes
so early in the race.

‘*T understand that they used to do it
in May. Now they're doing it in
March. They’re going to need a lot of
luck to pick the right candidate. At
that point, it may be so indeterminate
that it’s really impossible to know.”’

“I think if you got several hundred

of the top political analysts together at
that time, they would have a hard time
picking in March.””

Sabato was surprised by the turnout
for the workshop, which was com-
pletely voluntary.

‘*I’m impressed that so many people
are interested in politics to give up
their Saturday to show up.”’

‘*The quality of questions was very
high,’’ said Sabato, ‘‘They really
know their stuff.””

Chip Gist, political chairman of the
Mock Convention, said he was
pleased with the turnout. He estimated
that about 75 people participated in the
workshop.

‘*We want to give them every bit of

 

 

Sam Rutigliano, former head coach of the Cleveland Browns,
spoke Monday night in Lee Chapel as part of Drug and Alcohol

Awareness Week.

 

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

information we can, every opportun-
ity to find out the kind of information
that I certainly can’t give them. You
can ask Dr. Sabato about any state,
and he literally knows something
about every state. It was lucky that he
was so convenient.”

Gist said because response to this
workshop was so favorable, the Mock
Convention committee may ask Sa-
bato to conduct another workshop
after Super Tuesday, the day of pri-
maries in most southern states and
some states such as Massachusetts and
Hawaii.

Sabato graduated from the Universi-
ty of Virginia in 1974. He was a
Rhodes Scholar and received a doc-

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-editor

 

The Executive Committee announ-
ced Monday night that it is re-opening
the call for applications for the White
Book Revisions Committee.

According the EC President Brad
Root, the call for applications was
closed about six weeks into the Fall
Term.

The applications are being re-
opened because the response to the
first call was so poor. At the end of
Fall Term, the EC had received about
10 applications. The White Book Re-
visions Committee will be made up of
12 students.

Root stressed the importance of the
committee.

“It is the best way to evaluate the
current student generation in relation
to the Honor System.”’

Additionally, Root said he will de-
sign an application form for students
to fill out. Students had previously
submitted a letter expressing their
wish to be considered for the commit-
tee.

Root said the forms will be ready by
the end of the week. They may be
picked up in Carol Calkins’ office in
the University Center.

Students who have already applied

torate from Oxford University in
1977. He has taught at UVa since
1978.

His research concentrates on cam-
paigns and elections, state government
and politics in the fifty states, and
Virginia politics and government.
Currently, he is conducting research
on campaign techniques, focusing on
media advertising, polling, and direct
mail.

He is the author of several books,
including: The Rise of Political Con-
sultants: New Ways of Winning Elec-
tions, Goodbye to Goodtime Charlie:
The American Governorship Trans-
formed, and PAC Power: Inside the
World of Political Action Committees.

Executive Committee
re-opens applications

to the committee do not need to re-
apply, said Root.

In other EC action:

Root announced that the Voting Re-
gulations Board had set the dates for
this years elections as follows:

Monday, Feb. 29 - petitions for Big
Three offices due

Monday, March 7 - Big Three elec-
tions

Thursday, March 10 - Big Three
run-off elections

Monday, March 14 - petitions due
for positions of class president, vice
president, and EC representative

Monday, March 21 - class officer
elections

Thursday, March 24 - class officer
run-offs

EC representatives Jud Parker a~4
John McDonough will attend an honor
conference in Princeton March 3-5.
The conference will be attended by
every Ivy League school, many of
which are considering implementing
formal honor systems.

The EC will have lunch with the
Board of Trustees on Friday, Jan. 29.
The Trustees will be in town holding a
board meeting on Jan. 28, 29, and 30.
Students who would like the EC to
bring up any items of concern with the
Trustees should see Root or their class
representative, or leave their written
suggestion at the EC offices in the
University Center.

Matthew Maury often overlooked among Lexington’s citizens

 

From Staff Reports

 

While the Rockbridge County area
: marks the well-known January birth-
' days of Robert E. Lee, Stonewall
’ Jackson, and Martin Luther King, an-
other important January birthday slips
by almost unnoted, despite lasting ties
with Virginia, especially Lexington.

Thursday, Jan. 14, marked the
182nd anniversary of the birth of
Commodore Matthew Fontaine
Maury, the ‘‘Pathfinder of the Seas,’’
and though he roamed far and wide in
his vigorous career, his life began and
ended in Virginia. It is an odd coinci-
dence that the birthdays of Jackson,
Lee, and Maury, three of Lexington’s
most noted former citizens, fall within
a span of eight days.

Born in 1806 in Spotsylvania

County, where Jackson was to die a

 

Dubois Thompson, senior-—-
“Obviously people that are of the
drinking age.”’

half-century later, the celebrated na-
val scientist spent the last years of his
life at VMI. It was here that Maury
died in 1873 in the parade ground re-
sidence into which he moved in 1868.
The house, now called the Maury
House, is among the buildings and re-
sidences cited in VMI’s designation as
a National Historic District.

Although in his lifetime he received
more recognition abroad than he did at
home, Maury in 1930 became the 68th
person to be enshrined in the Hall of
Fame of Great Americans.

Maury, whose family moved from
Virginia to Tennessee, had his first as-
sociation with Rockbridge County at
the age of 19 when he received a mid-
shipman appointment to the U.S.
Navy. It came through another mi-
grant Virginian, Tennessee Con-
gressman Sam Houston, a Rockbridge
native.

Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

 

Wes Boyd, sophomore—‘‘Gives the
police department a lot to do and it
doesn’t stop kids from drinkig any-
way.”

When Maury became professor of
physics at VMI in September 1868, he
was installed in his position with elab-
orate ceremony. He was, after all, an
international scientist whose charting
of wind and sea currents had made
him the world’s foremost authority on
the science of oceanography.

He published works on navigation,
naval reform, meteorology, and as-
tronomy; was a pioneer in deep-sea
soundings; envisioned the laying of
transoceanic cables; developed the
standard ship’s log; and crusaded for
establishment of a national weather
bureau.

He also advocated the establishment
of a school for young Naval officers,
and so it is for that he is sometimes re-
ferred to as the father of the U.S. Na-
val Academy.

The outbreak of the Civil War for-
ced Maury, like many service offi-

cers, to make the decision of first loy-
alty. Resigning his Navy commission
to return to Virginia, he was commis-
sioned in the Confederate Navy and
placed in charge of all coast, harbor,
and river defenses. It was during this
period that he invented an electric
mine for harbor defense.

Maury was in England when the

war ended, having been sent there as
an emissary to purchase ships and win
friends for the Southern cause. In
exile and financial ruin, he went from
England to Mexico, but nine months
later returned to England where, in
order to support his family, he gave
instructions and demonstrations in the
use of his electirc mines.

It was while Maury was in England
that he accepted an invitation to join
the faculty at VMI. Not burdened with
regular classroom teaching, he served
as a lecturer while preparing an elab-
orate physical survey of Virginia. The
completed survey was widely ac-

Hotline provides accurate information

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-editor

 

According to Mock Convention Pol-
itical Chairman Chip Gist, the Mock
Convention committee will go to any
length to give students the most accu-
rate information in order to make an
accurate prediction of the Democratic
presidential nominee.

 

TALKBACK

Does anyone benefit from the drinking age being 21?

An example of this is the commit-
tee’s subscription to The Presidential
Campaign Hotline, a daily publication
produced in McLean.

The Hotline, which is sent to W&L
through a computer modem, is a
pamphlet detailing all the current
news in both the Republican and De-
mocratic campaigns.

The Hotline is divided into three
sections; a summary of news stories,

Photos by
Perry Hayes

 

 

 

Benny Savage, junior—‘'! don't
think the drinking age stops people
from drinking. Our society is messed
up because we always want to do what
we can’t do.”

 

John Farmer, sophomore—'‘No, I
think it takes away the choice of indi-
viduals, reduces the tax base and hurts
business in town. Who drinks the most
anyway? Our age group. ”’

 

Colleen Ryan, sophomore—‘‘The

Lexington Police Department.”

insider commentary (generally re-
marks from a political analyst), and
polls, said Gist.

The candidates are given space to
make statements and campaign reports
in the pamphlet. The Hotline also lists
each candidate’s schedule for the fol-
lowing five days.

According to Tim Bolling, Mock

 

 

AL
Bob Wolf, junior—*‘No—actually
since I’m turning 21 in a week, I'm all
for it.”

 

 

 
ee

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1988

 

Wolfe

 

Continued from page 1

put it, you had ‘‘to undress to write
fiction.”

The Bonfire of the Vanities is Wol-
fe’s first novel. It is the story of a
young investment banker named
Sherman McCoy. ‘*When he is in-
volved in a freak accident in the
Bronx, prosecutors, politicians, the
press, the police, the clergy. and as-
sorted hustlers high and low close in
on him, licking their chops and giving
us a gargantuan helping of the human
comedy of New York in the last years
of the twentieth century, a city boiling
over with racial and ethnic hostilities

Maury

 

Continued from page 3

claimed and became an important
element in the completion of the Che-
sapeake and Ohio Railroad.

In his lectures at VMI, Maury often
stressed the benefits of accurate time,
and as a result, the Institute began fir-
ing a gun at midday, a practice that
was lauded as a public service. His ar-
rival also revived interest in weather
records, and since 1869 daily weather
charts have been kept in Lexington.

In an effort to help the Southern
farmer, Maury championed estab-
lishment of a more effective weather
bureau in Washington, making the In-
stitute’s chair of physics a nationally
known source for ideas on the weath-
ef.

He traveled and lectured in every
section of the nation while at VMI and
was recognized by learned societies

and burning with the itch to Grab It
Now. Wolfe’s gallery ranges from
Wall Street, where people in their thir
ties feel like small-fry if they’re not
yet making a million per, to the real
streets, where the aim is lower but the
itch is just a virulent,** reads the book
jacket.

The Bonfire of the Vanities is Wol-
fe’s eleventh book. His other works
are The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine
Flake Streamline Baby, The Pump
House Gang, The Electric Kool-Aid
Acid Test, Radical Chic & Mau-
Mauing the Flak Catchers, The Pain-
ted Word, Mauve Gloves & Madmen,
Clutter & Vine, The Right Stuff, In
Our Time, and From Bauhaus to Our
House.

and universities, as well as by foreign
kings and emperors, for the advances
he brought to agriculture. He had just
addressed agricultural organizations
in Massachusetts and Missouri in the
fall of 1872 when illness forced his re-
turn home. He died quietly at his VMI
quarters on February 1, 1873.

Through Maury’s birthday may be
forgotten, the name is not. In scenic
Goshen Pass, where the Maury River
forms a pass between the mountains, a
monument is erected to the memory of
Maury, ‘‘the genius who first snat-
ched from ocean and atmosphere the
secret of their laws.’’ A ship’s anchor
lies appropriately alongside.

In Lexington, a street bears his
name, as does the old science building
at VMI and the parade ground quar-
ters he once called home. In VMI’s
Preston Library is a replica of sculptor
William Sievers’ heroic seated statue
of Maury, and near the library is an
equatorial sundial commemorating his
scientific achievements.

 

Hotline

 

(\Continued from page 3

Convention media chairman, the main
advantage of the Hotline is ‘‘it is so
timely.”

It gives students information from
all over the country in one lump, said
Bolling. ‘‘It compares what the Wash-
ington Post and the New York Times
have to say in the same paragraph.”’

According to Gist, the Hotline has
been helpful in political research, by

allowing students to follow traveling
candidates in various regional news-
papers.

Gist said the Mock Convention
committee subscribed to the Hotline in
October after Professor William Con-
nelly suggested it might be helpful.
Mock Convention has received the
Hotline daily since Nov. 1.

There are several copies available
for the use of students involved in
Mock Convention: one in the Uni-
versity Library on cage reserve, one
in the Commerce School Library, and
one in the Mock Convention office.

 

 

Tom Wolfe

 

Publicity Photo by Nancy Crampton

Pusey speaks on W&L’s
role in works of fiction

 

By Melinda Conkling
Staff Reporter

 

Upon leaving college, graduates
often feel many conflicting emotions
towards their alma mater. Sometimes
the magnitude of these emotions leads
one to write about their college expe-
riences, be it with irony, civility, or
indifference. :

On Jan. 18, Professor emeritus Wil-
liam H. Pusey III presented a paper in
Northen Auditorium on men who have
graduated from W&L and collected
their memoirs in a novel.

Many professors, alumni, and
townspeople gathered to hear Pusey
speak on fiction written about or men-
tioning W&L. ‘‘There seem to be no
truly great college novels,’’ began
Pusey.

Nonetheless, there has been enough
material written on W&L that Pusey
was able to present a paper on novels
dealing with the school.

The first time W&L was ever men-
tioned in a novel was in 1842, by Wil-
liam A. Caruthers’ Love and Con-
sumption. The most recent novel

about W&L was a French best-seller,
L’Etudiant Etranger, that was pub-
lished in 1986. The author was a
W&L student who wrote, according to
Pusey, ‘‘an affirmative and pleasing
novel about Washington & Lee Uni-
versity’’.

Not all books on W&L have been
affirmative and pleasing. One novel in
particular, Jessamine by Marion Har-
land, gave a scathing depiction of
W&L.

The novels, often retrospective and
memorable, that Pusey talked about
were written between 1940 and 1986
and according to Pusey they tended to
view W&L as a gentleman’s school.

Said Pusey, “I read L’Etudiant
Etranger and this made me interested
in researching other books that have
been written about W&L and thus,
this paper’’.

Pusey’s closing was an invitation to
someone, man or woman, to write
about the manifold of changes that
have taken place at W&L over the past
few years.

The books mentioned in the paper
are on exhibit in the Boatwright Room
of the library through March.

 

MSA celebrates MLK Day

 

By Dana Bolden
Staff Reporter

 

Many members of the Lexington
community, W&L and VMI gathered
together Monday night at the First
Baptist Church to celebrate the birth-
day of the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr.

The program, which was sponsored
by the Minority Student Association
of W&L and Promaji at VMI, fea-
tured choral selections by the Gospel
Way Choir and the W&L Woman's
Chorus.

Many students spoke during the
program, providing excerpts of some
of King’s most famous speeches.

The featured speaker at the event
was the Rev. Haywood Robinson, Jr.
pastor of the Diamond Hill Baptist
Church in Lynchburg, who was also a
close personal friend of King.

Robinson received his B.A. from
Hampton University and his doctor of
divinity from the Virginia Seminary.
He conducted post- graduate studies at
Oberlin University. He is currently

the executive director of the Lynch-
burg Community Action Project and
is a member of the National Confer
ence of Christians and Jews.

In his speech, Haywood highlighted
some of King’s accomplishments. He
went on to tell the audience that
‘‘Martin knew _ that words were
powerful, but he knew that he must
back his words up with actions.”’
Haywood continued by asking the au-
dience that they follow that same ex-
ample.

Haywood also challenged the au-
dience to ‘‘use their bodies as vehicles
for the [King’s] dream.’’ He finished
his speech with a dynamic rendition of
King’s ‘“‘I have a dream”’ speech that
brought the church to its feet.

After Haywood'’s speech, many
students from both W&L and VMI
were recognized as outstanding §stu-
dents by W&L’s dean of minority af-
fairs Anece McCloud.

According to MSA member Mike
Webb, the program was more than a
success. Said Webb, ‘‘This is a great
way to bring the community, W&L
and VMI together all at the same
time.”’

Juniors offer chartered trip

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

While slushing through last week’s
snow, W&L students may have no-
ticed posters around campus advertis-
ing Barefoot Cruises.

Barefoot Cruises offers W&L stu-
dents an opportunity to spend either
February or Spring break on a 45-foot
Shocker Motorsailer leisurely sailing
around the Florida Keys.

But apparently students were dis-
interested in fishing, diving, windsurf-
ing, and skiing because W&L juniors
Bill Crabill and Mike Drusano, cap-
tain and first mate, received only one
phone call in response to the adver-
tisements they hung up around cam-
pus.

The one interested party who did
call was a Hollins student. Crabill ex-
plained to her that ‘‘the charter is open
to Hollins students’’ but he could not

take her and her friends during her
break because he would be in school.

Concerning why no one else expres-
sed interest in the trip, Canbill said,
‘‘part of the problem for the February
break is that everyone had already
made plans before I put the posters up,
and now it’s a little too early to be
thinking about April break.’’

Crabill has already made plans to go
skiing in February, but still offers his
services as a breakfast and lunch chef
as well as captain of his father’s boat,
Sonshine, during April.

‘*The idea [to offer the charter] real-

ly stemmed from last spring. I took ”

four friends from here to the Baha-
mas. We ended up meeting seven girls

from LSU on a chartered yacht in Bi- *

mini. We had a great time!’’ Crabill
explained.

Crabill also said that the ‘‘intention ”

was to take five girls not five guys,

because five girls look a lot better in |

bikinis than five guys.”’

MAXIMUM

 

SEX

 

 

 

 
   

DJ dearth

There are still Morning Classics
Shows, 9-11:30, open for inter-
ested students or faculty. For more
information, contact John Pipkin at
WLUR, 463-8443.

Sock sales

The Career Development and
Placement Office is presenting a
career lecture on Wednesday, Jan-
uary 27 from 4:00-5:00 p.m. in
Room 221 of the Commerce
School. Kevin Toomey, Vice
President of Sales/Marketing,
Kayser-Roth Hosiery, Inc. will
speak on ‘‘How to be a Success in
Sales.”’ All students and faculty
are invited to attend and to stay for
refreshments afterward.

High voices

The stirring voices of the Boys
Choir of Harlem will fill Jackson
Memorial Hall at VMI on Sunday,
Jan. 31 at 2:30 p.m. The Rock-
bridge Concert-Theatre Series will
present the 30-member choir as the
opening event of the celebration of
February as Black History Month.

This event, as well as all
R.C.T.S. events, is free to W&L
students because of substantial
support from the university.

 

Help Me!

The Writing Center is now open
every Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday from 7:00 p.m.-10:00
p.m. in Payne 26. For more infor-
mation, call Professor Miller at
463-8758.

Help them

Anyone interested in writing an
article for the Journal of Science
please contact Mark Farley at
463-7140, as soon as possible.

Ski for Lungs

The Shenandoah Region of the
American Lung Association of
Virginia is once again promoting
the sale of West Virginia Ski Privi-
lege Cards. For a $30.00 purchase,
the card will enable a skier to take
advantage of one lift ticket at each
of ten ski resorts in the West Vir-
ginia and Maryland area, a value of
over $200.00. The entire purchase
price of $30.00 will be used for
programs in the fight against lung
desease. Visa, Mastercard and
Choice will be accepted for pay-
ment.

For more information and to
purchase the Ski Privilege Card,
contact the American Lung Asso-
ciation of Virginia, Shenandoah
Region, at (703) 248-3300.

 

       

 

General

 

Bi-partisan Poll

The Young Democrats and Col-
lege Republicans will conduct a
poll on Wed., Jan. 27 from
10:00-4:00 outside the Co-op. The
purpose of the poll is to gauge the
personal preferences of students
and faculty in the Presidential elec-
tion.

Peaceful letters

Anyone interested in joining
Amnesty International: there will
be a meeting at 7 p.m. on Tuesday,
Jan. 26 in Room 114 of the Uni-
versity Center. If you are unable to
attend but would like to join con-
tact Kevin McNamara at
463-2361.

   

Notes

gical, moral, political themes in a
metaphorical family saga you
won't soon forget, coupled with
strong performances and deliber-
ately crimson colortone. Few Rus-
sian films match the splendor and
pace of this, Pyriev’s last great
work.

Erfglish exchange

University College, Oxford, has
invited W&L to send one student
each year for a year-long exchange
program in some area in which a
tutor is available on the university
faculty. The program is designed
for students in their junior year but
in exceptional cases a senior may
be considered. (The Oxford aca-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1988, Page 5

demic year runs from the first of
October until late in June so it
would be very difficult for a senior
to complete the required work in
time for graduation here.)

To be considered, the student
should be in the upper quintile in
class rank; a junior; able to com-
plete the general education re-
quirements for the degree in the
remaining time at W&L; planning
to take work in a discipline in
which University has available tu-
tors; able to present a program of
studies suitable to the major de-
partment concerned and to the For-
eign Studies Committee; involved
in extra-or co-curricular activities;
and committed to staying for the
whole academic year.

Nominations by faculty mem-
bers are due by Feb. |. A letter of
recommendation should be in-
cluded with the nomination. The

   

letter should be addressed to: Wil-
liam J. Watt, Chairman; Universi-
ty Student-Exchange Committee;
Howe Hall. After an initial screen-
ing the committee will interview
finalists in February.

As in other exchange programs,
the student involved remains enrol-
led at W&L and therefore would
continue to receive any financial
aid to which he or she is entitled. In
addition, W&L will provide a
$2,000 scholarship to help with
transportation and personal expen-
ses. The student would pay tuition
and living expenses to University.

Credit for work at Oxford would
be assigned by the student’s major
department after evaluating the
work carried out during the year at
Oxford. No grades will be trans-
ferred for the work.

For additional information,
please consult Professor Watt.

 

 

Oh, Brother!

‘Brothers Karama-
zov’’/‘‘Brat’'ya Karamazovy”’
(USSR, 1980-US release, dir. Ivan
Pyriev, color, in Russian
w/English subtitles (when not cen-
sored out), from Fyodor Dos-
toevsky’s novel ‘‘Brothers Kara-
mazov’’ (with politically sensitive
passages rephrased), in 3 parts
runs on Fri. 1/22-Sat. 1/23 at 7:30
p.m., 327 Commerce, sponsored
by the German dept. Public in-
vited. Artfully interweaves theolo-

 

 

Lip synch contest set for Friday

 

From Staff Reports

 

Get your lips in shape and prepare
to boogie. The lip syne contest is
back!

W&L’s closet rock stars, shower
sopranos, and plain old hams will strut
their stuff for the second time on Fri-
' day, Jan. 22, at the second annual
WA&L lip sync and air band competi-
= tion.
= All proceeds from the competition
“ will be contributed to the National
~ Multiple Sclerosis Society.

ODK

 

= (Continued from page 1

< Senior initiates were: J. Marshall
= Boswell of Little Rock, Ark.; E. Mark
- chiappara of Upper Montclair, N.J.;
- Douglas F. Elliot of Birmingham,
- Ala.; Mark L. Farley of Pittsburgh,
: Penn.

: Marcelo O. Fernandes of Coral Ga-
> bles, Fla.; Charles L. Lyle of Jack-
* son, Miss.; James M. Metcalfe of Mt.
: Pleasant, S.C.; Joseph D. Nuckols of

‘*Last year we raised more than
$400 for MS and had a lot of fun doing
it,’’ said Gerry Darrell, one of the or-
ganizers of the event. ‘‘With the in-
creased prize money and large number
of door prizes we expect to do even
better this year.”’

The contest, open to all members of
the W&L community and _ rep-
resentatives from the area’s women’s
colleges, will begin at 8:30 p.m. in the
GHQ. The only rules are that no
sound be emitted from the stage and
no props—except costumes—are al-
lowed. Contestants will be judged on
creativity and originality, choreogra-

Rockville, Va.

Thomas P. O’Brien III of Cincin-
nati, Ohio; Gregory D. Russell of
Pomona, N.Y.; J. Baxter Sharp of
Brinkley, Ark.; John H. Starks, Jr. of
Valdosta, Ga.

Eugene F. Stephenson of Murfrees-
boro, N.C.; Robert V. Williamson of
Davidson, N.C.; and Paul C. Wiman
of Abilene, Tex.

Junior initiates were: Jennifer M.
Bray of Houston; Gregory Dale of
Medina, N.Y.; Christopher S. de
Movellan of Lexington, Ky.; Marion
M. Herring of Boone, N.C.; and Julia
C. Sheppard of Winchester, Va.

Merle Norman/Wolff Tanning

M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

Rt. 11 North

STUDENT RATES

463-1782

Solar Nails/Manicures
5 visits $25.00

10 visits $39.00
25 visits $79.00
$6 per visit
Ist visit free
‘Free Visit to Tanning Bed With This Ad’’

 

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who
are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them in

their physical, mental and spiritual development. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities and be
dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her poten-
tial. College students, teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP

 
  

> > () ED 0 D> () ED 0 ED 0) ED 0 ED () RED () ED ()

HOLLINS HAS A CRUSH
ON YOU W&L

Phi Delta Theta
Phi Gamma Delta
Phi Kappa Psi
Phi Kappa Sigma
Pi Kappa Alpha
Pi Kappa Phi

Pr

| Beta Theta Pi

i Chi Psi

§ Delta Tau Delta

( Kappa Alpha
Kappa Sigma

| Lambda Chi Alpha

Keep your eye open for your invitation to

HOLLINS COLLEGE’S
1st ANNUAL CRUSH PARTY
Feb. 5, 1988

a rE

THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is
an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sail-
ing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing

and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further infor-
mation write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird, Clover,
S.C., 29710, 803-831-2121.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Chi

Sigma Nu

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Zeta Beta Tau

  

phy, lip synchronization, and cos-
tumes.

Judges for the contest will be Kath-
leen Olson, assistant professor of art,
Pam Oates, a representative of the
University Theatre, and Bob deMaria,
associate professor of journalism.

Prizes include $100 for first place;
$60 for second place; and $40 for
third. The first 35 contestants to enter
will receive T-shirts compliments of
Pepsi. Door prizes will be awarded to
spectators during breaks.

The entry fee is $8 per individual,
the cover charge is $3 per person.

Picture

(JContinued from page 1

W&L for 49 years. He retired in
1962. He began his career at W&L in
1913 as an instructor in French and
history. Through the years, he taught
political science, sociology, was dean
of students and registrar.

Latture is credited with being one of
the founding members of Omicron
Delta Kappa and was honored in 1961
with the painting.

The painting was first hung when
Evans Dining Hall was opened.

 

 

 

Dont let your glasses blur
your vision.

BE
f

 

Whether a glass holds 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1'/4 ounces of spirits, the alcohol
content is the same. It’s important to know this because the size and shape of the glass can give
people a distorted impression of how much alcohol they’re actually drinking.

So when you're out to share some cheer with friends, remember how much alcohol is in your
glass and that drinking sensibly lets you hold things in focus.

Always keep safe driving within your sight.

 

 

 

FRIES IEE EL:
celleellee .
erlleellee |
celleelieeliee! |

|

mre
rm
erm tte

 

 

 

yee Eye ited
ox

1 MiliSt
Staunton, Va
885-3409

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,

Lamb, Veal, Italian And
Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close

Reservations suggested

 
  

 

 

  

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

  
   
 

Lift
Ticket

$

 

Friday til 11 PM.

these rates

 

Valley True Value Hardware

Thue Value

HARDWARE STORES

88 COLLEGE DAYS _

$

* Come for any Monday or Friday Twilight ski period.

* Present your valid college student ID, full or part time.
* Buy a lift ticket for just $8. Rentals for $8.

* Enjoy the slopes from 12:30 to 10 PM, Monday.

    

®

 
   
  
 

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

 

Ski
Rentals

a College Days lift ticket and rental rates are available for Twilight Skiing on
Monday and Friday only, Other special rates and discounts may not be applied to

 

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

 

 

 
   
   
    

LEXINGTON

tee ee

 

 

SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories
23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)463-5988

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Wendell's
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

 

 

 

 

——_

   
  

wh

1673, Main St.

 

one.

 

 

 

ite Front Ma).

 
   

  

   

ke;

S43 -Jigg

We offer a complete line of grocery items to serve
your every need. We also offer fresh beet, pork and
poultry with deli meats for your convenience. We carry a
complete selection of domestic and import beers and
wines. Last but not least, we offer student charge ac-
counts, that can be sent home to your parents. Stop by
today and we will be glad to talk to you about openin

Serving the W&L community
for over 30 years.

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1988

 

 

Hancock nets

1000th point;

Generals crush Maroons

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

What a wild and wooly week it was
for the W&L basketball team.

In the span of seven days, the Gen-
erals whipped Roanoke 82- 72, senior
guard Steve Hancock scored his
| OOOth-career point and the team got
in a fight during an 83-80 win over
Eastern Mennonite that resulted in
three players being ejected from the
game. In the process, the squad upped
it’s record to 12-2, 3-2 in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference. Let's try
to sort this whole mess out.

First things first. The Generals flew
into last Thursday's game at the War-
ner Center against Roanoke on the
wings of a four- game winning streak
and the Maroons were not about to
ground them. It was W&L’s game
from the opening tipoff as the Gen-
erals raced out to an early 8-2 lead.
Despite the antics of a near- capacity
crowd, everything was pretty much
under control. That was, however, un-
til the 3:13 mark of the first half.

At that point, Roanoke’s leading
scorer, Charles Small, picked up his
third personal foul. Roanoke head
coach Ed Green became upset, which
is a vast understatement. Green picked
up a technical foul, but even that
didn’t deter him from leaving the
coach’s box, going up to the scorer’s
table and generally causing confusion

and havoc for the officials running the
game.

 

Meanwhile, the Generals stayed
calm, mainly because their head
coach, Verne Canfield, remained al-
most silent throughout the entire
proceedings. The strategy worked, for
when play resumed, W&L held on to
its lead and went into the locker room
at halftime with a 36-30 advantage.

Green continued to stir up trouble in
the second half, but the poised Gen-
erals, who at one point had four
freshmen on the floor, were never ser-
iously threatened the rest of the way.
The play of the freshmen was the key
as W&L got excellent performances
from forward Chris Jacobs (13 points
on 13-14 shooting from the free-throw
line) and the backcourt tandem of
guards Mike Holton and Jim Casey.
Freshman forward Ed Hart, on an off-
night for him, still contributed 12
points and 5 rebounds. Hancock led
all scorers with 17 points, as well as
grabbing a team-high 8 boards.

‘It was a total team effort,’’ said
Canfield. ‘‘We followed the game
plan almost to a ‘T’. It was pleasing
that we were mentally tough and it
was pleasing that we weren’t intimi-
dated.””

Unfortunately for the Generals,
they couldn’t savor the victory for
very long. W&L traveled to Emory
and Henry on Saturday night to take
on the physical Wasps, and the Gen-
erals lost 79-69.

Canfield did not start either Han-
cock or senior center Harmon Harden
in the E&H game for reasons he called
a ‘‘family matter.‘‘ With four fresh-

 

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Emmanuel Klump looks to drive against Eastern Mennon ite. Klump hit two clutch free throws as the Generals won 83-80.

men starting, the Generals hung with
the Wasps for the first 20 minutes and
even had the lead at halftime, 37-34.
E&H, however, started pounding the
ball inside to their money man, Stan
Eggleston (20 points, 8 rebounds and

 

 

Sports Photo

For the first time ever, W&L fielded a women’s fencing team. From left, Rebecca Worth, team coach,
Tad Humphreys, Paula Gregg and Cathy Hunt. W&L recently lost to Roanoke 4-12.

Grapplers grab fourth place

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

The W&L wrestling team made a
solid showing this past Saturday,
grabbing fourth place in the ten-team
Lebanon Valley Dual-Meet Invita-
tional. '

The Generals got off to a good start,
beating host Lebanon Valley 30-12 in
the first round. Senior Kevin McNa-
mara, with a pin at 167 Ibs., and
sophomore Lee Garlove, with a 15-3
decision at 142, led W&L.

In all, the Generals won six of the
10 weight classes. Also winning for
W&L was senior Steve Castle at 126,
senior John Lowe at 134, freshman
Mark Monahan by forfeit at 158 and
junior George Loupassi at 190.

Things then got real tough in the
semifinals. The Generals got crushed
42-3 by Lycoming. Garlove, who
went undefeated in his three matches
at the invitational, had the lone
triumph, a hard-fought 4-3 victory at
142.

Lycoming narrowly won the first
two weight classes, with freshman
Larry Pilkey and Castle getting edged
by one and two points respectively,
but then dominated the remaining
matches. Lycoming would score two
pins and four technical falls in the next
eight classes, with Garlove and Lou-
passi the only ones able to go the dis-
tance of three periods.

Kings was the W&L’s next oppo-
nent in the battle for third place, and
the Generals came up on the short end
of the 28-17 score. After three conse-
cutive decisions by Castle, Lowe and
Garlove, W&L had an 11-6 lead. It

was short lived as Kings went right
back on top with a pin at 150 and a
technical fall at 158. The Generals
fought back with two more decisions
to tie the match at 17-17 going into the
final two classes. But Kings closed out
the competition with another technical
fall and another pin, insuring W&L of
a fourth-place finish.

This Saturday, the Generals play
host in the W&L Invitational Tourna-
ment in the Warner Center, starting at
9:00 a.m. W&L’s wrestlers will com-
pete against Davidson, Furman,
Gardner-Webb, Gettysburg, Johns
Hopkins, Longwood and Newport
News Apprentice.

 

 

TYPISTS: Hundreds weekly
at home!
Write:
P.O. Box 17
Clark, New Jersey 07066

 

 

The Lexington Connection

Come to the Grand Opening, meet our staff and
register to win for the following prizes: Ist

Prize: Top for two anywhere Piedmont flies.
2nd Prize: Dinner for two at Maple Hall.

 

We can help get you on your way with our many...

 

 

FOUND
| Female, Black Lab
; Less than one year old,
recent veterinary care,
{found the week of the
15th by Woods Creek
Apartments. If not
‘claimed by owner, avail
able to first inquirer. Call

 

| 463-2399

Services
Complete information and
reservations for

Airlines Bus Excursions

Amtack & Eurail -Guided Tours
Hotels Independent

Cars Traveler Packages
Cruises Expeditions and

Specialty Trips

 

‘
Benefits
These services free of charge:
$100,000 flight Billing to law firm.
insurance companies &
Major credit cards schools
accepted Brochures
Multilingual staff Prompt, courteous

Ticket delivery service

Convenient 2-hour parking with easy access

 

 

Corporate Business Accounts

to our back door entrance

 

pe W. Washington St
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-2197

 

Plus, we offer Guaranteed Lowest Fares.

Hours:
Mon. - Fri. 9a.m.-5p.m.
Saturday 9:30a.m. 12:30p.m

 

 

statistically the best player in the
ODAC), and his two accountants,
Leon Hill (20 pts., 6 rbs.) and Major
Warner (15 pts., 9 rbs.) and pulled
away from W&L.

The Generals got a great game from

Jacobs again as he chipped in a career-
high 15 points to lead W&L, but poor
shooting hurt the squad in the second
half. The team shot a lowly 29 percent
(0-8 from 3-point range) in the final
stanza, compared to E&H’s 54 per-

cent.

With its win streak snapped, W&L
returned to the friendly confines of the
Warner Center Tuesday night for a

L)See Week, page 7

:

W&L fights off EM Royals 83-80 |

rT

¥

oT

¥

Swimming: SU is too tough

 

From Staff Reports

 

The W&L men’s swim team lost its
first meet of the season when Division
II Shippensburg came into Cy Twom-
bly Pool last Friday and defeated the
Generals 100-75.

‘‘Shippensburg is a dynamic pro-
gram with quality swimmers,’’ said
head coach Page Remillard. ‘‘Still, I
am pleased with many of our swims.”’

Remillard had to be pleased with the
performance of sophomore Shawn

 

For Rent: One room Cottage.
Utilities included. Single male
student. Three blocks from
Wa&L. Unfurnished. After 5:00.
463-4271

 

 

 

Copeland. For the second-consecutive
week, Copeland was W&L’s top
swimmer. He won the 200-yard
breaststroke with a time of 2:15.25
and was second in the 200-yard indi-
vidual medley with a time of 2:01.59.
In the previous meet against George-
town, Copeland won three events to
lead the Generals, now 2-1 on the
season, to victory.

W&L also got some excellent
efforts from senior Simon Perez and
juniors Moose Herring and David
Dietz. Perez won the 100- yard frees-
tyle with a time of 49.25 and was part
of the General’s winning 400-yard
freestyle relay team. Herring claimed
first place in the 200-yard backstroke

with a time of 2:08.06 and Dietz tou-
ched out three Shippensburg swim-
mers to narrowly win the 50-yard
freestyle with a time of 22.62.

Shippensburg’s depth proved to be
the deciding factor in the meet. The
Generals won five of the 11 races, but
Shippensburg grabbed two of the top
three places in seven of the events.
The 200- and 500-yard freestyles were
dominated by Shippensburg as it took
all three places in each event.

Both the W&L men and women
teams will compete at home against —
Johns Hopkins this Friday. The meet,

‘which will be held in Cy Twombly

Pool, begins at 6:00 p.m.

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

 

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

Career Expo

Going the extra mile, exceeding our customers’ expectations, that’s what
Barnett Banks is all about. We’ve never lost sight of our mission: to pro-
vide the most comprehensive financial services possible. Consequently,
Barnett’s people are chosen not just for their skills and talent, but for their
special qualities of dedication, pride and enthusiasm as well.

As Florida's largest bank with nearly 500 offices in that state alone, and a
strong presence in the Atlanta market, Barnett is backed by over $23-billion
in assets and continues to grow. In fact, our track record shows remark-
able progress in all areas with assets and net income, earnings and
market share on the rise.

If you'd be especially motivated by an aggressive, largely decentralized
organization in which extra effort is recognized and rewarded, consider
a future with Barnett. As we continue to expand our portfolio of services
throughout Florida and in Georgia, we'll need your drive for success,

So be sure to see our representatives, com-
ing to your campus on January 28, 1988,
and discuss our Management Associates
Program with them. They will give you the
details that could get you started in an excit-
ing career with Barnett.

An Equal Opportunity/

Feta Barnett Banks, Inc.

LG

Affirmative Action Employer.

We Set The Standard.

 

 

a

»

.

*

*

¥

y

¥

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

crowd.

 
   

Week

 

(JContinued from page 6

   

‘ftiendly game with the Royals of
Eastern Mennonite (3-10 overall, 0-5
ig the ODAC). Hancock was five
points shy of 1,000 for his career.
Sounds like a nice easy win for the
Generals and night to celebrate Han-
cock’s achievement, right? Wrong.
“The Royals played extremely well,
led by the inspired play of Eugene Bal-
timore (11 points, 5 assists), who, at
times, looked like a shorter version of
dohnny Dawkins, and the sharpshoot-
ing Gary Chupp (game-high 27 points
6n 8 for 11 shooting). The Generals
were able to build a comfortable lead
of six points, but could never deliver
the knockout punch. The first half
ended with W&L leading 39-33.
Hancock was, so far, the only high-
light of the General’s evening. With
just over five minutes remaining in the
first half, Hancock tossed in a three-
point rainbow that almost scraped the
' metal beams of the gym ceiling. The
| pot of gold at the end of the shot were
career points 998, 999 and 1000, mak-
‘ing Hancock just the 14th player in
W&L history to reach the coveted
plateau.
* The game was uneventful for the
first 17 minutes of the second half,
with the Generals still maintaining a
=~ +six-point advantage. Then came abso-
lute mayhem.
Senior forward Gary Schott and
‘Royal forward Norris Bethea became
,entangled, with both players crashing
to the floor. Schott was called for the
*personal foul, but Bethea and Schott
_ Were engaging in fisticuffs before the
officials could step in. In fact, the
‘officials, inexplicably. did nothing
, to stop the fight. As both players con-
tinued to tussle, the players on the
* floor jumped in. Finally. after a cou-
_ ple of minutes had passed, the offi-
cials finally restored order to the situa-
* tion,

Then, after at least tn interminable
minutes of discussion, ¢ame the calls.
Schott and Hart were both given two-

, shot flagrant fouls anc ejected from
the game, although Har was not even
involved in the fight. For Eastern

_ Mennonite, Baltimore “who did not
throw a punch) and no! Bethea, was
given a two-shot flagrint foul and

_ ejected from the gamé For good
measure, the officials Man assessed

; technical fouls to Canfield and

' Royal’s coach Mark E. Fleming for

leaving the coach's box! during the
battle

 

Not this year, Roanoke!

(Clockwise from above)

= Freshman Chris Jacobs battles inside for a rebound; freshman
v Jim Casey gives the defense a quick read before passing; senior
; Steve Hancock makes a move on a Roanoke defender. The Gen-
: erals beat the Maroons in front of an enthusiastic Warner Center

(All photos by Mathew Horridge)

 

‘‘Don’t ask me to explain it,”’ said
Canfield. ‘‘I can only stand so long
and see my guy get pummelled and
then I got to go on the floor.”’

Then, after even more discussion,
came the foul shots. Bethea hit the two
free throws for the first foul (the Gen-
erals were in the penalty situation) and
then Chupp hit all four free throws for
the two flagrant fouls. Hancock then
hit 1 of 2 for the Royal’s flagrant foul
and the General’s six-point lead had
evaporated to just one. The officials
said the technical fouls on both coa-
ches cancelled each other out, so
neither team shot free throws for those
two calls.

The result of the whole incident was
that Eastern Mennonite suddenly had
a chance to win the game. The Gen-
erals were still leading by one until
Eric Kurtz’s layup gave the Royals the
lead with thirteen seconds left. Junior
guard Emmanuel Klump brought the
ball up for W&L, drove into the lane
and somehow drew a foul with :02
showing on the clock as he flung the
ball toward the basket.

Klump, for the second week in a
row, nailed the clutch free throws.
After the Royals threw the ball away,
Holton hit two more foul shots and the
Generals escaped with an 83-80 vic-
tory.

Canfield was not pleased. ‘‘I sure
don’t see team defense, I'll tell you
that. That bothers me. I’m really upset
with the way we've been playing. It’s
almost like ‘Okay, we've beat Roan-
oke, that’s it guys, that’s the season.’
Roanoke wasn't the team to beat this
year, folks.”

The team to beat this year is
Bridgewater and that’s whom the Gen-
erals face tonight on the road. Led by
last year’s ODAC Player-of-the- Year
Ramsey Yeatts, Bridgewater is cur-
rently 13-1 overall, undefeated in the
ODAC and ranked 6th in the nation in
Division ILI to boot.

“They have five guys who play
very well together,”’ said Canfield,
‘‘and they look to their aircraft carrier
to go ahead and score. If he’s on, they
find him. If our team wants a chal-
lenge, they got it.”’

HOOKSHOTS—Hancock continues
to be the General’s leading scorer,
averaging just under 18 points per
contest... Tonight’s Bridgewater
game will be broadcast live on 91.5
WLUR. Coverage begins at 7:20...
The Generals have an unusual Sunday
afternoon game against Maryville at
3:00 p.m. at the Warner Center.
W&L then goes back on the road to
take on the Tigers at Hampden- Syd-
ney on Tuesday...

115 S. Main St.,

   
 
     
     
  

   

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1988, Page 7

 

 

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

463-2742

 

a" Ss
eorge’s Hairstylist

since 1963

directly behind Leggett’s

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell

 

 

WINTER + SPRING « SUMMER « FALL
STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR LESS AT

OXFORD

Several Colleges of Oxford University have invited WISC to
recommend qualified students to study under the tutorial
system as Visiting Students or Associate Students for one
year or for one or two terms. Upper Sophomore status is
required, and graduate study is available.

Integrated student housing, social activities, tours offered by
WISC. A special summer session is directed by WISC.,

Past student evaluations available.

 

 

INTERN IN

WASHINGTON
SUMMER 1988

Pre-professional program: internships in Congress, the
media, the White House, think tanks, etc. Related
courses in Government or Journalism.

 

 

 

 

The Washington International Studies Center
Room 713A, 901 Six Street SW
Washington, DC 20024
(202) 337-9378/9379
(EO/AA)

 

 

Lexington’s
Market

Miller Lite or Draft—12-Pk.

Ee

Tropicana Frozen

Cranage AMGS.....6.c0sccchinst. 18

Staymen Fresh—3-Lb. Bag
BE 6s Lo deuwihdnnw see

Orville Redenbacher—15-Oz.

PURGE iccicibcomucdenn et 18

Rainbow

Paper TOWGNS.......60:0suseseses Oh OO”

Shop Our Low Prices

TAKE THE

ULTIMATE FIELD COURSE

Join us and study:

 

* Wildlife Management in Kenya,

¢ Marine Biology in the Virgin Islands,
¢ Deforestation in Costa Rica,

© Dolphins in Hawaii

* Biogeography in Australia

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

and 18 more environmental issues worldwide.

Financial aid and academic credit available
For more information on January, Summer & Semester
environmental field research courses, come to:

University Center Room 109
Monday, January 25, 1988 at 1:00 p.m.

or write: SFS, Box A, 376 Hale St., Beverly, MA 01915, (617) 927-7777

THE SCHOOL FOR FIBLD STUDIES

 

 
=BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1988

 

Words in Edgewise

Answers to Your Musical Questions

 

By Marshall Boswell
Staff Reporter

 

Every year about this time, we are
smothered by Top Ten lists of every
imaginable species, so | swear to God
that this little trifle of a piece will be
nothing of the sort. What this is,
rather, is an answer to all those Top
Fen lists. My primary launching pad
is this: a concise, exhaustive listing of
the sort previously indicated breeds on
exclusion and conciseness, which
means that a great deal is left unsaid.
It is nice to be reminded about how
many hit singles U2 scored last year,
but wasn't there a question lurking in
your head that first time you listened
to The Joshua Tree, a question that
never quite got answered? That is, be-
fore we compile that last list,
shouldn’t we ask those important
questions that have hounded us all
year?

Well, yeah. Or at least that’s what
this article is going to do. You see,
one of the advantages of writing a
column based on its writer’s utterly
unsolicited views is that the above said
writer also gets the opportunity to
engage in this kind of equally unsoli-
cited exercise--that is, the airing of
questions not answered by year-end
Top Ten lists. These particular ques-
tions concern the world of popular

Faust Food

music, but I urge you, patient reader,
to feel free and apply this endeavor to
any discipline or area in which ques-
tions like the following rear their
unanswered head.

And away we go.

1. Is there actually a living, breath-
ing, eating, excreting human complex
organism named Whitney Houston or
is this woman we’ ve all been watching
open-mouthed for the last year or so
simply the result of some as yet unex-
plained, simultaneous nationwide fan-
tasy?

2. Speaking of fantasies, does
Sheena Easton actually offer the none-
too-unarousing invitation, ‘‘Let’s get
to rammin’*‘ on that last Prince single
or was that too just another example of
an as yet unexplained et cetera?

3. Since we're still speaking of fan-
tasies, is Madonna becoming what we
mean when we use the term ‘‘anato-
mically correct?**

4. Speaking of anatomies, someone
who’s met her please tell me if Janet
Jackson is actually as cotton-candy
chubby as she sometimes lets on in all
those quick-edit videos. Then tell me
you're only kidding, since we haven't
left this area of fantasies.

5. Speaking of Jacksons, is that real-
ly brother Michael out there or has he
been replaced by some alien life-form
whose facial structure seems to be
fighting a losing battle with our ten-

uous atmosphere?

6. Still on the subject of Michael
Jackson, am I the only person who
finds it slightly disconcerting that the
Odd One opens his latest album with
the lyric, ‘You're butt is mine‘*‘?

7. And speaking of rock star butts,
what demographic audience is George
Michael aiming for with that ludicrous
shot of his blue-jeaned bottom at the
beginning of his latest video? Does the
answer to this have anything to do
with the perfectly- groomed hairdres-
ser razor stubble and the pearls dan-
gling daintily from George’s manly
leather jacket?

8. Speaking of leather jackets, why
is Billy Idol still alive and currently
breathing our tenuous atmosphere? I
mean, have we really been bad enough
to deserve this?

9. Why is Heart still et cetera?

10. Why is John Cougar Mellen-
camp still et cetera?

11. Why is John Bon Jovi still et
cetera?

12. Speaking of deserving some-
thing, what is the difference between
Debbie Gibson or Tiffany and any
other mindless, sixteen year-old Mall
Rat with a shapely teen butt? Besides a
hit record, of course, which is the
whole point.

13. Speaking of missed points, just
what is ‘‘pseudo-Dead- headness‘*?

14. Speaking of Dead-heads, does it

bother that portion of the Grateful
Dead faithful who give up their
money, intellect and ambition in the
name of Dead-headness that their
heroes have become extremely wea-
Ithy capitalists in the name of mis-
guided, knee-jerk sixties idealism?

15. Speaking of idealism, sure U2 is
great and mean well and all that, but
has anyone resolved in his/her mind
the fact that nearly ninety-percent of
the songs on the new album use the
exact same chords?

16. Speaking of the same chords,
are Motley Crue, Poison and Cindere-
lla actually the same four people wear-
ing different clothes at the appropriate
times?

17. Speaking of appropriate times,
are we really rid of Dweezil Zappa?

18. Speaking of inappropriate
times, are we really going to have to
deal with Boston again?

19. Or Aerosmith?

20. And finally, at this inappro-
priate time, I thought I would inap-
propriately leave you, patient reader,
with a Top Five list of the best records
of the past year--all of them, interest-
ingly enough, two record sets: The
Smiths, Louder Than Bombs, The
Cure, Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me;
Prince, Sign O’ the Times; Husker
Du, Warehouse: Songs and Stories;
and Sting, ... Nothing Like the Sun.
No question about it.

Stop-In is more than just a pit stop

 

By Jason Faust
Food Critic

It’s inevitable; we just can’t avoid
it. Every W&L student eventually
makes the trek down to that heavenly
mecca of food and gasoline, Stop-In.
In fact, I believe that Greg, my faith-
ful side-kick connoisseur, and I have
become addicted to the chili- cheese
dogs made fresh right before our eyes.
I would even go so far as to attribute
restless nights to a failure to inhale a
steaming chili-cheese dog, made by
my personal favorite Cheryl, while
watching ‘‘Late Night.’’ Greg has re-
ported similar reactions though a bit
more severe.

But you know, and there are many
non-believers out there, the dogs are

just the tip of delectable iceberg of
foods found at Stop-In. A plethora of
palatable delights are to be found in
the refrigerator which also houses a
veritable cornucopia of domestic and
imported beers. I wish I could de-
scribe how glorious Chineses History
was on Thursday mornings after eat-
ing half of a chicken salad sandwich
and half a pimento cheese sandwich
from Stop-In washed down with a Diet
Coke, of course.

Recently a burning issue has divided
many of the Stop-In regulars, myself
included. The issue is between the
‘One Stop’’ Stop-In brand sandwi-
ches and the Johnson’s brand sandwi-
ches-- which is best? I have always
been a devout consumer of Johnson’s
but I must admit that Stop-In’s pi-

mento cheese sandwiches simply are
the best. Greg has and probably al-
ways will argue in favor of Johnson’s
but I think he simply doesn’t want to
admit that I’m right. Oh well, it is a
matter of individual taste. I just hope I
don’t lose any more sleep over this is-
sue.

But to be serious, really. Though I
don’t think it is humanly possible for
others to enjoy Stop-In as much as
Greg and I do, Stop-In does offer a
quick and inexpensive dining alterna-
tive. It can also be fun if you take the
time to talk with Cheryl, Bird, Alice,
Jackie, and all the other friendly peo-
ple who work there. About the food,
well...it’s microwave food. What
more can be said about it. The chili-
cheese dogs and the recently added

barbeque are excellent. The sandwi-
ches in the refrigerator vary from cold
Italian subs to sausage and egg bis-
cuits. Particular favorites of mine are
always the Johnson’s cheeseburgers,
hot ham and cheese and the chicken
salad. On some days I enjoy the Beef
and Onion but other days I don’t. I
would not recommend the steak sand-
wich, the bagelwurst, or the tuna sa-
lad.

Stop-In is a convenience store sup-
plying W&L, VMI, and the commun-
ity with goods and gasoline, but re-
member the food. It’s cheap (nothing
is over $2) and many evenings the
walk down from the hill has proved a
great way to blow off a little steam as

well as nourishing your body with a
little ‘‘brain food.”’

[CALENDAR i:

Thursday, January 21

All Day—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Mock
Video Interviews (advance sign-up in CD&P office). Room 103, Uni-
versity Center.

3 p.m.—ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE LECTURE: “‘Intervention | 4
Techniques and Adult Children of Alcoholics,’ Bob Lynn, substance
abuse counselor, Lewis Gale Hospital. Northen Auditorium, University
Library. y
5 p.m.—CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “‘Bugs, Drugs, and Trace De-
tection,’’ Stephen Holmes '88. Room 401, Howe Hall. Refreshments at
4:30 in Room 402. Public invited. ’
7:30 p.m.—ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE LECTURE: “‘Interven-
tion Techniques and Adult Children of Alcoholics,’’ Bob Lynn. Lee
Chapel. Public invited. 4
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Bridgewater.

Friday, January 22 ’
8 a.m.—ROTC Battlefield tour of New Market. Call Major Wingard ”
for details (ext. 8486/8480).
6 p.m.—MEN’S AND WOMEN’S SWIMMING: Generals vs. John "
Hopkins. Twombly Pool.
7 p.m.—ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE LECTURE: ‘‘A Challenge ‘
to Students and Adults to Wage War Against Drugs,’’ Mrs. Lonise Bias, 5
mother of Len Bias. Lee Chapel. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.—RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: Brothers Karamazov. Room
327, Commerce School.
8:30 p.m.—MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS BENEFIT: Lip Syne Contest. ;
General Headquarters. Public invited. $3 cover charge. ;

Saturday, January 23
All Day—WRESTLING: W&L INVITATIONAL. Warner Center. F
T.B.A.—GMAT Examination.
1:30 p.m.—OPERA BROADCAST: Verdi’s Macbeth, WLUR-FM
(91.5).
7:30 p.m.—RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: Brothers Karamazov. Room
327, Commerce School.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: INDOOR TRACK: Virginia Tech Invita-
tional.

Monday, January 25
7:30 p.m.—ART EXHIBIT AND INFORMAL DISCUSSION: ‘‘The
Development of an Artist.’ Kathleen Olson, Associate Professor of
Art. Reception to follow. Public invited. Arlington Women’s Center.

Tuesday, January 26
8:00 p.m.—WINTER CHORAL CONCERT: Lee Chapel. Reception '
to follow in the Arlington Women’s Center. Public invited.

Wednesday, January 27
12:30 p.m.—BROWN BAG IT WITH BARBARA BROWN, Universi-
ty Librarian. ‘‘Women at W&L: Before and After.’’ Arlington
Women’s Center.

Thursday, January 28
7:00 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘Women in Law: One Woman’s Perspec-
tive,’’ Mary Natkin, Director of Legal Writing Program, W&L School
of Law, Associate of Law at Law Firm of Natkin, Heslep, and Natkin.
Reception preceding. Public invited. Arlington Women’s Center.

Friday, January 29
4-6 p.m.—OPEN HOUSE. Public invited. Arlington Women’s Center. 5

 

 

 

Would like to thank the Washington & Lee students, |

faculty, and community for their support. |

We invite all freshmen to attend Delt’s Winter Rush

JANUARY:
FRI. 22nd

SAT. 23rd

SUN. 24th
FRI. 29th
SAT. 30th
SUN. 31th
FEBRUARY
SAT. 6th

Open House and Dinner 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m.

Open House 6:00 - 7:00 Join us for W&L Basketball

Sunday House Tours 1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.
Rush Date and Dinner 5:30-7:00

Country Rush Date 1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. ,
Join us for the Superbowl at Delta Tau Delta

Mid-Term Brunch 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.

‘*GET A TASTE OF DELT”’

PRESIDENT:
Kevin Webb

RUSH CHAIRMEN:
Ian Thompson & Lex Reeves

 

 

 
