 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

 

VOLUME 87, NUMBER 11

W&L is 23rd choosiest colle

mt 2 te

» By Marie Dunne
=, Co-editor

 

 

Ns x Washington and Lee University is
= the 23rd choosiest college in the na-
= tion according to an article last
= month in USA Today.

: The 43 choosiest colleges were
2 er ranked according to the percentage
=, of applicants accepted for the 1986-87
= School year. All of the colleges rank-
=. ed accepted less than 50% of their ap-
== plicants and had average SAT scores
greater than 1200.

W&L accepted 34.2 percent of those
high school seniors who applied for a
place in the class of 1990. The
eaverage SAT score for the W&L’s
class of 1990 is 1230.

_The top five colleges in the survey

A.

 

; By Stacy Morrison

p Staff Reporter

» One of the two bands has been nam-
= ed for Superdance, as planning con-
= tinues for the annual fundraising
> event for the Muscular Dystrophy
= Association, said Greg Knapp, co-
~ Chairman of the Superdance commit-

.. tee. Superdance will be held the first
’ weekend of February 1988.

IBM, a progressive band from
Georgia, has been selected to play.
The Superdance Committee con-
tinues negotiations to determine the
Second band for the 15-hour long

nee,

Dancer participation is key ‘to the
“Success of Superdance, now in its
_ tenth year, said Knapp. Last year,
Washington and Lee raised more

Nn $25,000 after expenses, the

 
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
     
   
  
 
   
 
 
 

 

by Heidi Read ~~~,
staff Reporter

 

Do you know anyone with bulemia
or anorexia? What about bulimarex-
Ha, a combination of the two? Dr.
Marlene Boskind-White, a nationally
‘nown expert on eating disorders and
rauthor of “Bulimarexia: The
‘Binge/Purge Cycle,” will give a lec-
jure addressing eating disorders on
Tuesday, Dec. 8, at 7 p.m. in the Moot
‘Court Room of Lewis Hall.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

were the U.S. Military Academy, ac-
cepting 10.2 percent; the U.S. Naval
Academy, 11.9 percent; Stanford
University 15.6 percent; U.S. Air
Force Academy, 16.2 percent; and
Princeton University, 16.5 percent.

According to Julia Kozak,
Associate Director of Admissions,
W&L will most likely move up in the
survey next year. The admissions
department accepted only 29 percent
of the applicants for the class of 1991,
down almost five percent from the
34.2 percent for 1990.

“TI think Washington and Lee has
always enjoyed a national reputa-
tion,’ said Kozak, ‘‘but there’s no
question that everywhere we go
we’re seeing more interest in W&L.”’

Kozak said while co-education is
not singly responsible for the in-

highest per capita amount raised by
any college or university in the
United States. W&L was behind only
Syracuse University in total amount
raised, added Knapp.

Pledge packets and information
can be picked up in Carol Caulkins’
office in the University Center. The
minimum amount of pledges needed
to qualify for dancing is $100 in cash
or checks. Any pledges above the
base $100 that are smaller than five
dollars must be cash or checks, as
well.

As incentives for the dancers to br-
ing in larger donations, prizes will be
given in three categories: highest
total donation raised, highest cash
donation raised, and highest total
donation raised for a single organiza-
tion. There will also be door prizes
and dance contests every hour
throughout the dance.

Ee Boskind.White works with i spat

band, a licensed child psychologist,
in Roanoke. Before setting up their
practice in Roanoke, both Boskind-
White and her husband were on the
staff at Cornell University.

In her lecture on Tuesday,
Boskind-White will discuss the
historical perspective of eating
disorders, medical diagnosis and
treatment.

Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer said, “If a person is sym-

  

 

By Jennifer Bandrowski
aff Reporter

 

The 1988 Mock Democratic Con-
= -Yention held its monthly meeting of
© state chairpersons on Wednesday,
eNovember 18. The general ad-
~-Ministrative meeting was attended
» SY 48 of 56 state and U:S. territory
irpersons.
Convention Co-Chairman Lester
announced the funds raised by

individual state, which totaled
910.

ring Committee.

also made a few suggestions as
‘= funds may be obtained.

Chamber of Commerce and

Such foundations are a good

mvention Co-Chairman Chip Gist
€ on the new Presidential Cam-

crease interest in W&L, ‘‘co-
education has made W&L a more
popular option for some students.”’

“It’s wonderful to be in this kind of
company,” said Kozak, referring to
W&L’s ranking with other
prestigious schools. However, incom-
ing students should not base their col-
lege choice on surveys, cautioned
Kozak.

“We're the 23rd choosiest college,
but we're not the college for
everyone,”

The 43 choosiest colleges selected
by USA Today are listed in order with
percentage of applicants oredr
and average SAT score:

At this stage of the planning, prizes
to be awarded include a weekend at
Hotel Roanoke, a weekend at Green-
briar, and a weekend in
Williamsburg. Other prizes are a
season ski pass and four free ski
passes and rentals for surrounding
ski areas. “Right now,” said Knapp,
“prizes are still coming in.”

The afternoon event of the dance
will be a “‘battle of the bands” among
three or four local bands, said
Knapp. At this time, the bands have
not been confirmed, but the Conver-
tibles, a Phi Delt band, and a VMI
band have been approached, he add-
ed.

The Superdance Committee has
also been holding slave auctions at
area women’s colleges.

“These auctions function both as
fund-raisers, and also as a way of
familiarizing the women as to what

ay a it much faster.” mae
also said that it was much easier to
diagnose anorexics than bulemics
because an anorexic’s symptoms are
noticeable.

Anorexics starve themselves to
death to stay thin. They usually lose
at least 25 percent of their body
weight, hair falls out in patches, skin
has a pale tone and even on a hot day
they will feel cold.

Bulemics appear to be healthy,

 

paign Hotline, which serves as an aid
in political research.

The hotline produces, ‘‘...up-to-
date information on any news having
to do with the presidential race right
now, including both the Democrat
and Republican parties,”’ Gist said.

According to Gist, updates on
“campaigns, all of the latest polls—
about two to three a day—and the
calendar for the next seven days of
each political candidate,” are includ-
ed in the reports.

The service is provided by ‘‘...a
company based out of McLean,
Virginia, made up of political scien-
tists and academics,”’ Gist said.

Gist cited an example of how the
service might be useful: If Bruce
Babbitt were campaigning in New
York, then the New York state chair-
man would know to consult the
following day’s New York
newspapers for coverage of the cam-
paign

   

   
    
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
 

“This will help us tremendously
with our political research,” Gist
said.

Gist reports that the overall con-
vention planning is going well.

“We're going to do some polling
before Christmas of all the
Democratic national committee
members, including state and local
officials, to find which candidate they
are backing. So our political research
is running right on schedule,” he
said.

Also before Christmas will be the
first large mailing to solicit funds for
the convention. Letters will be sent to
all who have contributed to W&L’s
general fund in the last five years.

Journal chairman Jeff Kelsey has
been busy selling advertisements for
the Mock Convention program.

Gist says that he has had, “...a real
good response so far. It’s advan-
tageous to anyone who wants to do
that (purchase an ad),”’

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

1. U.S. Military Academy,

10.2%, 1205
2. U.S. Naval Academy, 11.9%, 1245
3. Stanford University, 15.6%, 1325
4. U.S. Air Force Academy, 16.2%
5. Princeton University, 16.5%, 1325

6. Harvard & Radcliffe Colleges,
16.7%, 1365

7, Cooper Union, 16.8%, 1320

8. Yale University, 18.1%, 1355

9. Duke University, 18.9%, 1300

10. Brown University, 20.3%, 1280

11. Georgetown University, 20.6%,
1287

12. Amherst College, 21.4%, n.a.

13. Dartmouth College, 22.3%, 1300

14. Bowdoin College, 24.5%, n.a.

15. Williams College, 24.7%, 1355

IBM selected to play at Superdance

Superdance is all about,” said
Knapp.

Kathy Kelso, co-chairman of the
Special Events Committee, said that
$500 was raised at Mary Baldwin,
and $800 was raised at Sweet Briar.
Slave auctions are slated for the
other surrounding women’s colleges
in January.

Greg Knapp, Chuck Husting and
Mike Herrin are the three co-
chairmen of the committee, which
has about 100 student members.

“Student participation is para-
mount to the success of any fundrais-
ing event,’” said Knapp. ‘‘Without

those students who have been willing .

to donate their time and money for
the last ten years, the Superdance
would not have flourished as it has.”
Knapp urges students ‘‘to come out
and dance for those who can’t, and
have a great time while doing | aM

Bulimarexia expert to lecture at W&L
Stan ore a

walt. A bulemic person ap-
pears to have normal eating habits,
but in the privacy of a bathroom, will
purge themselves of the meal they
just ate, losing nutrients in the pro-
cess. “Although nine out of ten suf-

.ferers of eating disorders are

women,”’ Schoer said, ‘‘men can also

suffer from the disorders.’’ Wrestlers .

trying to maintain a certain weight
can easily turn their weight

said.

 

From Staff Reports

 

Thirty-eight Washington and Lee
University sophomores have been
elected to membership in Phi Eta
Sigma, the national honor society
recognizing academic excellence in
the freshman year.

The minimal precondition for
membership in Phi Eta Sigma is a 3.5
cumulative grade point during the
freshman year.

Those W&L students who were in-
itiated into membership during
ceremonies on Thursday, October 29,
are:

Nancy Haynes Baughan of Rock-
ledge, Fla.; Susan Elisabeth Bienert
of Lutherville, Md.; Cheryl Lynn
Bowles of Marietta, Ga.; George

akes - their’ diagnosis ‘much -.

16, Columbia University, 27.5%, 1300

17. Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, 28.4%, 1380

18, University of Virginia, 28.7%, 1245

19. Cornell University, 29.1%, 1290

20. Davidson College, 30.0%, 1220

21. Rice University, 30.4%, 1321

22. California Institute of
Technology, 30.7%, 1405

23. Washington & Lee University,
34.2%, 1230

24. Wesleyan University, 34.6%, 1310

25. Tufts University, 34.7%, 1230

26. Colgate University, 35.1%, 1210

27. Haverford College, 35.3%, n.a.

28. Swarthmore College, 36.3%, 1325

29. University of Pennsylvania,
37.2%, 1270

30. Lafayette College, 37.2%, 1205

Theological Thespian

Frank King, left, a W&L senior, and Reverend James Noto rehearse a scene
maintenance routine into a habit, she from the University Theatre’s production of ‘Mass Appeal.’’ The play will be

COTONG. 2504. {

ta,

Jf

Che King-tum Phi

DECEMBER 3, 1987

ge in country

31. Middlebury College, 37.8%, 1250

32. Bates College, 38.8%, 1200

33. College of William & Mary,
40.3%, 1220

34. Trinity College, 41.1%, 1220

35. Northwestern University,
42.7%, 1230

36. New College, 44.3%, 1243

37. Pomona College, 44.3%, 1270

38. University of Notre Dame,
44.8%, 1225

39. University of Chicago, 44.9%, 1240

40. Harvey Mudd College, 45.0%, 1360

41. Vassar College, 46.5%, 1200

42. Carleton College, 48.3%, 1280

43. Claremont McKenna College,
49.3% 1215

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

given Dec. 4,5, and 6, at St. Patrick’s Church.

Phi Eta Sigma inducts 38 students

Wesley Boyd of Dallas, Texas; Leigh
Ann Brown of Rockville, Md.; Reid
Tarlton Campbell of New Canaan,
Conn.; Dedra Lynn Connor of Colum-
bia, S.C.; Richard Scott Cornell of
Hopkinsville, Ky.; Kara Lynn Cun-
ningham of Charleston, W.Va.;
Donald Alan DeFabio of Gaithers-
burg, Md.; Michael R. Dixon of
Bethesda, Md.; Anna Winnifred
Dulaney of Charlotte, N.C.; John
Stephen Farmer of Lexington, Ky.;
Damon Vincent Fensterman of
Lynchburg, Va.; Billie Dallas
Hagewood of Franklin, Tenn.; Nancy
Louise Hickam of Pulaski, Va.;
Laura Earle Horgan of Newport
News, Va.; Mary Catherine Hunt of
Baltimore, Md.; Amy Jennifer Kit-
chen of Amherst, N.H.; James
Burges Lake of Charleston, S.C.;
Carter King Laughlin II of Dallas,

Texas; Stephen Scott Mattingly of
Webster Springs, W.Va.; Kevin
Michael Nash of Cordova, Tenn.;
Todd Christian Peppers of Lex-
ington, Va.; Katherine Lorraine
Richardson of Gaithersburg, Md.;
Colleen Virginia Ryan of
Cockeysville, Md.; Donald Caryle
Schaeffer of Lexington, Ky.; Mat-
thew Clinton Sackett of Lynchburg,
Va.; Courtney Simmons of Alexan-
dria, Va.; Teresa L. Southard of
Dayton, Va.; Jennifer Ellen Spreng
of Belleville, Ill.; Stephen L. Stanley
of Shreveport, La.; Dana D. Stiles of
Chattanooga, Tenn.; Michael Ed-
ward Thompson of Clothier, W.Va.;
Della Fayth Truett of Friendsville,
Tenn,; Frederick Johnson Turpin,
Jr, of Tampa, Fla.; Tina Vandersteel
of Alpine, N.J.; and Terence Adam
Wynne of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.

Convention security plans for the worst

By Amy Balfour
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Security Committee
for the W&L Mock Convention will be
spending many hours preparing for
the March convention to make sure
that everything runs safely and
smoothly.

‘My main purpose is to brainstorm

‘and go through what could happen,”

said junior Fray McCormick who is
co-chairman of the committee with
senior Greg Unger.

A lot of their hours of preparation
will be wasted, McCormick said,
because all the possible problems
they plan for might not happen.

Their work started with
Democratic presidential candidate
Jesse Jackson's outdoor speech last
spring.

The committee coordinated securi-
ty for the whole event, working with
campus security, city police, cadets

Fee A Qe ee Pet

att OMS rere ee

from VMI and a state trooper, Mc-
Cormick said.

Security got together with the
facilities committee and went over
the floor plan to determine where to
put security people in order to keep
Jackson safe and avoid any pro-
blems.

“It’s more behind the scenes,’’ Mc-
Cormick said of his responsibilities.
The committee had to work on such
possible problems as where would-be
assassins would fire from to what to
do if there were alcoholic drinks in
the crowd.

For the latter problem, he said,
security even had to plan what to do
if a VMI cadet had problems enforc-
ing the no-drinking policy.

In that case a W&L security
member would have to back up the
VMI cadet.

If the convention itself in March
draws a big-name speaker such as
Former President Jimmy Carter or a

Hees OE BOT ET A shes — ¢ a

current Democratic presidential can-
didate, McCormick and the commit-
tee will have to work and coordinate
plans with the Secret Service.

Security will have to go over the
floor plan of the gym, where most of
the activities will occur, with the con-
vention’s facilities chairman, Tim
Brennan, McCormick said.

By looking at the floor plan, he
said, they will again try to figure out
where possible trouble points will be.

He said that security will also
patrol the area during the convention
and check things out.

The committee is shooting to
employ 20 to 25 students, male or
female, in addition to campus securi-
ty.

The main expenses, he said, will be
for walkie-talkies and for paying
students on the Security Committee.

The students will be paid, he said,
because ‘‘they are giving up time to
beresp’ sible.”

  
    
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 
OPINION
Shorter

Some rumors have been circulating that the administra-
tion may be planning to change the length of Thanksgiving
break. While we do not know if this is true, we would like to
encourage the administration to seriously look into shorten-
ing Thanksgiving break.

In its present form, the week-long break comes much too
late in the term to serve as an effective break. An effective
break should be one that allows students to enjoy a brief rest
from academics. This does not mean students need breaks
during which they do no work, but instead a break that allows
them ample time to relax and work.

Ten weeks of classes with no breaks, except for weekends ,
have transpired by the time Thanksgiving break arrives.
Most college students, being the undergraduates that they
are, manage to fall behind in their work somewhat in that
amount of time, regardless of how diligent they attempt to
be. Even students who are up-to-date with their work are
often facing term papers and important tests immediately
after break. All this work has to be contended with over the
break, while visiting relatives and taking care of other such
holiday amenities. And after the break is over, finals are
looming just two weeks away.

The administration should consider this: make Thanksgiv-
ing a four-day weekend and insert a three-weekday reading
period at the midterm. This would help the problem in a
number of ways. Most importantly, students would be able to
catch up a large amount of work at the midterm, while still
being able to relax some during their break. This would help
reduce the ‘“‘burnout’”’ among students that tends to hit later
in the term when workloads begin to become unwieldy.

Helping students to lessen their workload earlier in the
term will also serve to make the Thanksgiving holiday more
enjoyable. Students will not have to spend the entire break in
a catch-22 situation--feeling guilty for doing academics and
not visiting relatives, and vice versa.

A break at the midterm will also enable students to prepare
for the numerous exams that are scheduled at that time. It is
not fair for the students when they have to neglect some
studies because their workload is too unmanageable. The
shorter break would help students to do what they are here
for--learn the material in their classes, not find ways to get
around it. ‘

Some will say that a shortened Thanksgiving break will
prevent some students from returning home for the holidays .
However, people must remember that Christmas break falls
only three weeks after Thanksgiving, and there is plenty of
time then for students to fly or drive home. That time can
even be lengthened by a student’s scheduling of exams, one
of the many advantages to life at Washington and Lee.

There are enough positive reasons for a shortened
Thanksgiving break to warrant the university to seriously
look into implementing the changes. After all, the changes
are for the benefit of our education, which is what we are
here for in the first place. wan

Ranking

Once again the excellence of Washington and Lee has been
singled out in a national publication. USA Today, that
newspaper (in)famous for its short news stories and colorful
weather map, has ranked our school as the 23rd most selec-
tive university in the nation.

This honor follows the ranking of W&L as the 25th best
liberal arts university in the nation by U.S. News and World
Report. While it is definitely good to see the prestige of the
university on the rise, everyone needs to realize something
important before they call home excitedly with the USA To-
day results.

The U.S. News ranking was the result of a survey of college
presidents across the nation. They were asked to name the
best universities, in their opinion, in a number of different
categories (liberal arts, pre-professional, etc.). This, in ef-
fect, is ranking by peers, one of the most telling types of
evaluation there is.

However, the USA Today list only took into account the
selectivity of any particular institution. This means the
paper took the number of people accepted to a particular col-
lege and divided by the number of applications received by
that college. While this gives people a general idea of a col-
lege’s worth, it can be misleading.

For any small school, W&L for example, the number of
people accepted will be naturally low. In order to raise the
ranking all the university needs to do is solicit large numbers
of applications and still accept the same number of people
per year.

This means that if W&L convinces large numbers of
students who have no chance of admission to apply, our
rating will go up.

Of course, it is still an honor to be recognized for outstan-
ding qualities, and selectivity is one of those. However, peo-
ple do need to realize that not all ranking systems are what
they seem to be.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

  

NEW STAFF
ee eer re yer Marie Dunne
David Emrich |
WOW6 TINGE a oascc csc cccccececccecereccccscesctccececeseseererscsss Peter Boatner
Amalgnement TGMOP.... oo. c ccc cece c ccs scecccsceveccececcecceceseocess Chris Munsey
Bperte CAME occ cde k ace csseccsscccecesevccsccseseeeecrseececsess Mike Shady
BAM TAIN i656 oo cack cae eee cea neeneedenrtaeceeres Michael Tuggle
PRetography BGHOr. 0.6. cece cccerescceceesevecvececcepeereseseeses Perry Hayes
Copy EAMOF. ccc csccccc ere cesceescsesccssesecceoeercecceeseees Katherine Graci
EDITORIAL PAGE STAFF
WOGMr IA POS MEMO 6 onc ccc ccc cence cecencevecceccesonceeescesssees Sean Bugg
CS 88 hh sa Stephen Ingram
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ............sccecececccecencecenscsevecevcecaces Rhona Hughes
Assistant Business Manager .........---+sscceceeeeereeeeeeserereeeeees Jason Faust
Advertising Manager.............ecceececeseeeeveeecesseens . Christie Champlin
Circulation Manager .........cccccccsscccccccvevecsesesecssoncesoeces Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1987

2

well, TL found ovt that Tim an adolt wher Pry the tution.

 

 

 

 

 

rading

Numbers do not gauge learning

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Solomon

 

It’s 10:30 p.m. on Thanksgiving
Day and I’ve stayed in Lexington
during this vacation, not because I’m
interested in doing a case study on
the quality control at Lloyds once the
students leave, but rather because I
felt I needed this time for several im-

pending papers. Yet as I sit at my -

desk I begin to think back on the
many times I’ve been in similar
situations, studying for great periods
of time and consuming vast amounts
of knowledge only to end up with a 73
on the exam.

Of course, after each experience

like this I would always ask myself

the same question. ‘Did you know
the material?” To which the usual
reply was, “Sure, I knew that stuff
backwards and forwards.”’

My point to all this is that making
grades for the sole point of getting
the grade is absurd. We are not here
to be assigned a number grade which
can be translated at the end of the
term into a letter grade. We are here
to learn. I feel myself constantly. be-
ing cfunched by grades. I deserve
better; we all deserve much more
than a rhetorical grading system.

Have you ever found yourself
thinking: Well, lets see if I can make
a perfect score on my next exam,
then maybe my final grade will be a
“B”’. “B” for what? Very good. Ah,
yes, I’m very good. God forbid I
should get a ‘‘C’”’ and be just average.
Can anyone tell me that I’m just
average? That everything I’ve learn-
ed is just average? That’s crazy.

I’m sure about how many of you

are asking why I’m writing this?
Well, if I had gotten a better grade on
my last test I probably wouldn’t be
writing this. But this is not just for
those people who are dissatisfied
with their grades, but for everyone at
this fine University. Don’t worry so
much about the numbers on a scale
or the letter assigned to you. If you
make a good grade and learn
nothing, then you have failed.

I’m not about to suggest any
radical changes in the grading
system here. We have all been told
how excellence stems from the obser-
vation of material and ability to
recall it at any given point in time.
This is why our teachers give us
quizzes and exams. But I believe it is
wrong to rank excellence at the top of
our objectives. Success should be at
the pinnacle of our minds. Being an
astute student does not involve a
number or letter. Being successful is
something that has to come from

within. You do not have to look at
your exam grade to feel successful.
You should know before looking at
the grade whether or not you have
been successful. Ask yourself if you
have learned anything. If you answer
“tyes” then I believe you have sur-
passed any letter or number grade
that could be given to you. You have
attained a sense of self-satisfaction.
Maybe this is all too idealistic. But
who can tell me that assigning a
number grade isn’t idealistic. A
number means nothing, it is just a
way of satisfying our need for ra-
tionality or realism. To me, that is
idealistic.

With the impending arrival of ex-
ams not far away I hope some of you
will think about this and possibly
learn something. Well, it is now after
11:00 so I better end this bit of per-
sonal testimony here, and start doing
some work so I can get an “A” on my
next paper.

 

 

LETTERS

Deferred Rush is not the right idea

To the Editors:

After reading Miss Reynold’s article in the
Ring-tum Phi on November 19 concerning the
faculty petition asking for a deferred rush, I am
only more convinced in my belief that the whole
question of rush is somehow getting into the
wrong hands. With all due respect, Mr. Sessions,
I really do not think that you know what you are
talking about and therefore should have no say in
our Rush calendar. Two of your observations in
particular led me to this conclusion.

First, if you had any inkling as to what the
situation in the dorms is you would realize that
there can be no “dorm parties” due to the dor-
mitory regulations. Parties in the dorms would
be unsafe at best as there is no room for parties,
and nobody would come in the first place as these
parties would have to be dry.

Freshmen as well as fraternity members
would find somewhere else to go and something
else to do. Secondly, you state that you “‘do not
think the fraternities can rush for an entire
twelve weeks because of the time and energy it
will take.” You have brought up an interesting
point here, but you have discarded it too quickly
which indicates to me your lack of understanding
toward the problem at hand. Fraternities will
rush for twelve weeks regardless of expense and
time. Your little plan for pushing deferred rush
on the students and thereby saving us
academically will only ruin some fraternities
financially and ruin many individuals first term
grades. I do not know if you have ever par-
ticipated in a fraternity rush, Mr. Sessions, but it
is a very important and intense process,
especially at W&L with the declining male
population. Rush is the most important thing to a
fraternity, and the members will rush for twelve
weeks regardless of rules.

I will admit, Mr. Sessions, that deferred rush is
a good idea in theory. However, my point is that
it will not work practically. Deferred rush will
hurt students’ academics and the fraternities
more than it will help them. Finally, how is the
question of rush any of your business anyway?
This is a student matter, and if anyone draws up
any proposals it should be students. I understand
that the Student Affairs Committee should
review any proposals, but it is still the students’
rush calendar. I will predict right now that if the
faculty shoves deferred rush down the throats of

the students we will have a rush bonanza of rule-
breaking and problems next year. You thought
this past Fall was bad, Mr. Sessions? Oh Boy! !

Pat Schaefer ’88

Check priorities

To the Editor:

A serious flaw in priorities has come to my at-
tention which deems further examination. The
flaw is that, in my view, the Administration of
Washington & Lee has placed greater priority in
the wants of themselves and the Board of
Trustees than in the needs of the students.

When I made the decision four years ago to at-
tend W&L, I did so in the belief that I would
receive one of the best educations available. I
find that for those interested in Computer
Science, this is not the case. This semester, the
supply of professors available to teach an entry
level computer course, Computer Science 110,
did not meet the demand. In fact, one professor
was left responsible for over 70 students in a
course which demands personal attention, with
programs due weekly. The task was obviously
too great for one man so he sought help in the
form of teaching assistants. But alas, this is
W&L and there have never been teaching
assistants here. So the Administration ruled that
teaching assistants are not to be, in any way,
substitutes for professors. Thus, this one pro-
fessor is again met with the task of instructing
over 70 students in a fashion conducive to each of
their personal understanding.

Meanwhile, plans for an Arts Center costing
millions of dollars are steaming full ahead.
Doesn’t it strike you as odd that while we do not
have enough professors to handle the load of
students in Computer Science, a quickly rising
major, we do have enough funds to build a center
for the world reknown artistic performers of
Washington and Lee?

Now do not misunderstand me, I’m not argu-
ing in favor of teaching assistants. I am arguing
for the proper attention to be given to students
whose families pay a great deal of money each
year in expectation that their son or daughter is
getting one of the best educations available. I ad-
dress the Administration: Are the needs of the

students being placed behind the wants of
— and the Board of Trustees? I invite a
reply.

Sincerely,
Etienne D. Cambon

What about AIDS?

To the Editor:

When will the President wake up to reality? He
continues to purchase another unneeded nuclear
weapon system of mass destruction, the B1
bomber at a final cost of more than $280 billion
dollars per plane. Meanwhile across the nation
and the world people are dying in a raging AIDS
epidemic.

Surely by canceling the B1, S.D.I. and other
unneeded nuclear weapon systems enough
money would be freed to find cures for AIDS,
most cancer, and probably feed and shelter the
homeless and still go a long way toward balanc-
ing the budget. The F.D.A. must wake up to
reality also. While people die of AIDS here in

-America, other AIDS sufferers are being saved

with AIDS drugs which the F.D.A. stubbornly
delays testing and approval of, not to mention
making it illegal to manufacture, prescribe and
possess them. The F.D.A. must wake up and
cease its anti-humane aids policy immediately.

The Supreme Court must wake up to reality
also and recognize that the true marriage bond is
the strong love and mutual sharing relationship
bond and not a piece of paper. It must recognize
this and the need to grant nothing less than full
human, civil and economic rights and
priviledges regardless of sexual preferences in
such relationships. I urge everyone to wake up
the President, Supreme Court, F.D.A. and Con-
gress by sending them copies of this letter or
part of a chain letter to everyones friends and
relatives so that they may do the same.

Let’s all do our part also and make a donation
toa AIDS charity also.

Leonard De Frazio, Jr.
31 Elmwood Ave.
Batavia, NY 14020

 

 

 

 

hd, OGL, AN
OPINION/NEWS

 

MY VIEW
By Kathy Morrison

For the benefit of you who are
wondering how to magnify the
pleasure of your stay here at
Washington and Lee, I wish to ex-
pound upon the superior standard of
domestic existence here in beautiful
downtown Lexington.

My roommate and I occupy a
quaint little two bedroom flat right on
Main Street. Life is fast-paced here,
with carriage rides passing below the
bedroom windows every morning at
ten, the late-night weekend rituals of
fraternity hoppers calling out ex-
huberantly to each other en route to
and from Red Square, and the heart-
stopping, action-packed
atmosphere—and delicious aroma—
of Lloyd’s right down the alley. Our

small neighborhood includes
students as well as more established
residents of Lexington, proof to the
fact that the university and the com-
munity really do work and play
together as one big, happy family.
But no matter how snug and com-
fortable I may be in my rustic little
abode, I can’t help but remember all
the good times I had back in the
dorms. Sometimes I really miss the
closeness, the warmth, the zany
shenanigans. Mostly, however, I feel
this odd empty feeling as I pause to
reflect upon all the sharing I’m miss-
ing out on, especially since I have on-
ly one roommate. I miss sharing
things like the bathroom, the
bedroom; sharing things like the
girls in Graham-Lees did last year. I
also sometimes envy those dorm oc-
cupants who are lucky enough to eat
in Evans dining hall every day, shar-
ing dinner, remnants of yesterday’s

dinner, and those yummy tidbits

destined to comprise tomorrows
lunch,
In spite of all the crazy fun

available to me in Lexington’s Main
Street night life, I must admit that I
find myself looking back longingly
upon all those exciting times back in
the dormitories. I now find it difficult
to truly enjoy a beer in my room
without that familiar, exhiliarating
thrill of punitive danger posed by the
Dorm Counselor. I even catch myself
heaving long sighs for lack of the
romantic adventure so abundant on
the co-ed floors: that frightening, yet
strangely exciting, possibility of run-
ning into a member of the opposite
sex as I dash from the shower to my
room, the thrill of being awakened at
some amazingly ungodly hour by

“dorm ragers’ as they bump
drunkenly down the halls, VMI
Cadets leaving erotic messages

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1987

Dorm life never leaves you lonely

scrawled on all the doors—all these
adventures and more are lost to me
now that I've opted to live in town.
But even through this melancholy for
what-might-have-been, I chuckle to
myself as I think back on fire alarms
at three a.m., the neighbors whoop-
ing it up until the wee hours, the con-
struction on Gaines beginning every
weekday morning before the break of
day—all those happy, human noises
that make one feel so much at
home...

City life may be nice, but you never
have to feel alone when you live in the
dorms!

In short, no matter how one may
chogse to spend time in this booming
nest of activity, there is a place for
everyone. Town or dorm, relaxation
or adventure, private or public, Lex-
ington has it‘all—it’s all in the way
you look at it that counts.

Students take tests to help choose careers

 

By Alice Harrell
Staff Reporter
On Nov. 10 and Nov. 11, two

workshops were held by Dean
Schroer to assist students in inter-
preting the results of their vocational
and personality tests.

The first test, the Strong Voca-
tional Interest Inventory, was com-
posed of approximately 175 ques-
tions, partly true-false and partly
like-dislike, which help the person
taking the test figure out which type
of career best suits him/her.

 

From Staff Reports

 

Walkers and joggers using the
cross country trail behind the
Pavilion this fall have noticed some
wide open spaces in what was forme-
ly a dense pine forest.

The removal of approximately 30
acres of white pine trees was brought
about through an unfortunate com-
bination of natural circumstances,
according to Scott Beebe, assistant
superintendent of buildings and
grounds and director of projects at
W&L.

The pineforest, planted approx-
imately 25 years ago on what was
once a grassy knoll had grown too
dense, Beebe said. The problem was
exacerbated by an infestation of
aphids—insects that suck sap from
trees—and the recent drought.

‘What we had was a huge stand of
dead trees,” said Beebe, who is a
registered Christmas tree grower
and manages W&L’s Christmas tree
farm at Skylark. “It created a
tremendous fire hazard and the in-
sect infestation had reached the point
where it was threatening the en-
tire forest.”

After consulting with the Universi-
ty’s landscape architect firm, the
Virginia Division of Forestry, and
Westvaco, one of the nation’s largest

Kelly Shifflett — sophomore ‘‘The
Boneshakers. I just heard them last
weekend and they were great.”

 

The Myer-Briggs Personality Type
Indicator, a 50-multiple-choice ques-
tion test, does exactly what the name
says: it gives the taker a general idea
of what sort of personality he/she
has.

While the Vocational Interest test
has been around for sometime, the
Myers-Briggs test wasn’t introduced
to W&L until this year.

Schroer’s workshops are also new
to the school. She felt that such group
interpretations would be helpful to
those students taking the tests. Eight

manufacturers of paper and
pulpwood, the administration decid-
ed to engage in a process of forest
management.

“The areas we cut out were mostly
dead tress,’’ Beebe said. ‘‘We were
very careful about where we cut. A 50
to 100-foot buffer was left aroung the
edge of the trees from the pavilion to
the VMI property, and we left some
islands of healthy trees standing.
President [John D.] Wilson said he
did not want to be able to see the cuts
from the front campus.”’

Once the trees were cut, they were
sold for pulpwood. The debris that
was left behind will be pushed to the
center of the cut area. If conditions
permit, Beebe said, the debris will be
burned. If, because of dry conditions,
burning is not possible, the debris
will be left as a wildlife refuge for
birds and small game.

The area will then be replanted
with loblolly pine seedlings that
Beebe said will mature quickly.

“‘What it all comes down to is good
forest management,’ Beebe said.
“The trees we cut down were planted
with the idea that they would be
harvested in the future. If we do not
routinely cut down and thin out the
small and diseased trees, the whole
forest could suffer. The steps we
have taken will ensure the vitality of
the forest for generations to come.”

 

Photos by
Perry Hayes

 

students participated in the career
test workshop, and six of those eight
returned the following afternoon for
the personality test workshop. In the
second one, Schroer related the
results of each test to each other.

The personality test is helpful for
students making career decisions
because, as Schroer said, ‘‘(they)
show students how they make deci-
sions...show them when they are and
aren't creative...they show how
logical or intuitive they may be.’’ She
added that the tests also helped show

students how they would work with
others by making them aware of
other pefsonality types.

Schroer especially recommends
the personality test for sophomores
who are trying to decide on a major.
She says many seniors have shown
interest in the vocational test to help
them decide which company to go
with, or what kind of job to start with
at that company.

The tests will be available all year.
Anyone interested should first con-
tact either Schroer or Dean Heatley
in the Career Development Office.

 

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Scott Beebe examines insect-damaged trees.

 

TALK

 

General Notes

 

Xmas Tunes

The Music Division of the
Department of Fine Arts will pre-
sent its annual Christmas Concert
Tuesday, December 8 at 8:00 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. The public is in-
vited.

New Tunes

‘The 36th annual BMI Awards to
Student Composers competition
will award $15,000 to young com-
posers, The deadline for entering
the 1987-88 competition will be Fri-
day, February 12, 1988.

Official rules and entry blanks
for the 1987-88 competition are
available from Barbara A.
Petersen, Director, BMI Awards
to Student Composers, 320 West
57th Street, New York, NY 10019.

Mike’s Son

John Dukakis, son of Gov.
Michael Dukakis of Mass., will
speak on his father’s campaign on
Tuesday, Nov. 8, in Room 109 of
the University Center at 8:30 a.m.
Coffee and danishes will be serv-
ed. The event is sponsored by
theYoung Democrats.

Taylor Made

Renowned author Peter Taylor
will present a reading on Tuesday,
Dec. 8, at 4:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium.

Taylor, a recent winner of the
PEN/Faulkner Award for Fic-
tion, is the author of numerous
short stories, several plays, and
the novel 4 Woman of Means. In
1959, Taylor received first prize in
the O. Henry Memorial Awards
and a Guggenheim Fellowship in
fiction. He was awarded the Na-
tional Academy of Arts and Let-
ters gold medal for literature in
1979.

The reading, which is open to
the public, is sponsored by the
Glasgow Endowment Program.

‘Career Advice

Career Development and Place-
ment Office presents ‘Career Ad-
vice from an alumnus in
Washington, D.C.” Topics: 1. Get-
ting into government service. 2.
Information about Environmental
Protection Agency. 3. Application
and interview do’s and don’t’s. By
Dr. Stanley Cook, ’61 and ’64L, En-
vironmental Protection
Specialist, Government Public
Relations Officer. Friday,

 

December 4, 1987—all day,
University Center, room 108
Students interested in any of the

topics above should sign up in ad
vance in the Career Development
and Placement Office.

Money Advice

All underclassmen are invited
to a discussion of ‘‘Banking and
Related Financial Industries.”’
Given by Harald Hansen, Presi-
dent, First Union Corporation of
Georgia, Wednesday, December
9, 1987, 2:30 p.m., Commerce
School, Room 327.

Peer Advice

Need to talk? Call the W&L
Counselor Hotline. Staffed
Sunday-Thursday, 7-11 p.m. and
Friday-Saturday, 8 p.m.-12 mid-
night. Confidential, Supportive,
Informative.

Dancing Info

Students who are planning to
participate in the 1988 Superdance
may pick up pledge packets and
information in Carol Caulkins’ of-
fice in the University Center. For
further information, contact Fon-
tanne Bostic, University Services.

Flick a la Emir

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is very pleased to an-
nounce that its next presentation
will be When Father Was Away on
Business (Yugoslavia, 1985),
directed by Emir Kusturica.

Showings will be at 8:00 on Fri-
day 4 December and Saturday 5
December in Classroom ‘‘A”’ in
Lewis Hall. There is no charge for
admission. The film is in Serbo-
Croatian, with English subtitles.

Flick a la Peter

Billy Budd’’ (UK, 1962, dir.
Peter Ustinov, stars Peter
Ustinov/Terence Stamp/Robert
Ryan/from Herman Melville’s
novel Billy Budd, Foretopman) will
run at 7 p.m., Wed., 12/9 and 4&7
p.m., Thur., 12/10, 327 Commerce,
sponsored by Politics Dept.
Oscar-nominee Terence Stamp,
highly a typical casting of Ustinov
and Ryan, and one of literary
history’s most controversial plots
make this a must-see film-
especially for Christmas-time.
This will change your concept of
justice forever.

 

SRR A sage EES 0 SORES RE ONES SE
Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

 

’ If you could choose any band to play here this weekend, who would it be?

John Farmer — sophomore “Liquid
Pleasure. They’re an incredible par-
ty band. They say the more you
drink, the better they sound.”

 

Tommy Donahoo — senior
Osmond Brothers’.

 

‘The

 

Fritz Lake — junior “REM. They’ve

_a good band—and maybe if SAB got a

good band, people would show up for
the concert.”

 

 

Dana Bolden — junior ‘Steel Pulse.
It’s about time we got a decent reg-
gae band here.”’

Rib

7
BS

 

Tony Matta — senior ‘Menudo.
They'd be as humorous as any other
band.”

 

  

Rt. 11 North

Merle Norman/Wolff Tanning

M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.
STUDENT RATES
Solar Nails/Manicures
5 visits $25.00
10 visits $39.00
25 visits $79.00

“Free Visit to Tanning Bed With This Ad”’

     
       
 
      
   

463-1782

HARDWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

 

Wendell's
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1987

 

 

What has a great memory

and comes with a

real handy trunk?

 

 

If you buy an IBM Personal System/2™ Model 25 by
the end of this year, you'll not only get a substantial student
discount, we'll throw in a nifty extra.

A sturdy, metal footlocker with brass trim, 16" x 16" x20"

The computer is a great way to keep on top of
your class work. It'll store lots of stuff you need to
remember. And the trunk is real handy for holding

most everything else.

It’s a neat idea that’s yours for peanuts.

To take advantage of this special deal, contact your
on-campus [BM Education Product Coordinator. But

don’t wait too long. ‘This special offer expires
December 3 lst.

The IBM Education Product Coordinator

Computer Center
Tucker Hall
463-8845

 

 

trademark of IBM ¢ /orporation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

 

Offer limited to qualified students. faculty and stall who purchase an [BM Personal System/2 Model 25 through their IBM Education Product Coordinator on or before December 31. L987, Offer applies to the IBM Personal
System/2 Models 8525-001, 8525-004, 8525-C02. and 8525-C05., Trink quantities are limited. IBV reserves the right to substitute a unit of comparable value. \llow 6 to 8 weeks for trunk delivery. Personal Svstem/2 is a

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1987

Hoops tames
~ Sydney Tigers

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

SPORTS

 

   

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee basketball team appeared to do everything right
when it won its Old Dominion Athletic Conference home opener Tuesday
night, and 87-85 victory over Hampden-Sydney in the Warner Center. The
Generals upped their early-season record to 4-0, one of the fastest starts for
the team in recent years, and the team played well down the stretch in
pressure situations. Appearances, however, can still be deceiving.

The Generals played a very uneven game, with the bright spots being ex-
cellent shooting and bench play. Turnovers were a problem, though, as W&L
had trouble establishing its half-court offense.

“We're trying to get an up-tempo game. We’re trying to get a transition
game,” said senior guard Steve Hancock,’ but we’re turning our transition
game into a fast-paced one and not setting up our offense. We’re mentally
tough as far as keeping the lead. We didn’t lose our cool, but we have to learn
to settle things down and work the ball under pressure.”

Hancock’s assessment echoed the feelings of his head coach. “The only
thing that was pleasing tonight was that we had contributions from the ben-
ch, like a guy like [senior center] Lou Trosch,’’ said head coach Verne Can-
field, ‘‘and we showed a mental toughness we haven’t showed the last couple
of years. But I am totally—underline totally—dissatisfied with our execution
at either end of the floor.”

Hancock and Trosch, this season’s co-captains, were both key performers
for W&L. Hancock led all General scorers with 22 points and Trosch came off
the bench to grab 11 rebounds, one of which was an important offensive
board that he put back in for two points. Trosch was thrust into action after
senior center Harmon Harden (16 points), the starting center for the
Generals, fouled out with over five minutes remaining.

The Generals led 36-32 at halftime. Scoring wise, Hancock received sup-

,port from freshman forward Ed Hart (13 points) and freshman guard
Michael Holton (11 peints, three 3-pointers).

 

 

The Generals take on Greensboro College tonight at 7:30 at the Warner
Center. W&L travels on Saturday for a game against Lynchburg before

rs By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi
, Senior center Harmon Harden powers his way to the basket.

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior guard Steve Hancock spins in a reverse layup.

Fields; fixed and near ready

 

story behind their delayed usage was
never fully announced. Beyond the
request for the fields, the Athletic
; Department had virtually no involve-
ee ment in the contracting and construc-
« Ever since their faulty initial com- __ tion of the fields. Executive Assistant
pletion, the future of the new $400,000 to the President, Frank A. Parsons,
“athletic fields had been uncertain. provided the information about the

, But over the summer, the construc- __ situation.

tion problems were remedied, and “The fields had been engineered to

’ the fields should be ready for use in : : :
; ; drain properly, and they simply did
, September 1988. Concerning their not,” . ar “Basically, hey tied

purpose, Associate Athletic Director : :
a : 7 been designed to be flat, since the
Dick Miller says the Athletic Depart- Athletic Department asked us to

ment does not have a specific plan. ; ;
2 ce repare for field hockey, which can-
They are actually practice fields, a played on a aaa field. In
*he said, “but we'll probably use one order to supplement the drainage dif-

of them for men and women’s soccer :
‘ : : : ficulty, the contractors were suppos-
games, provided there's no conflict ed i oeuats a porous soil ute

<of schedules. They are really not any udch would ia+ water wun down a

particular sport's fields.” the sides. However, the soil was mix-
As for the fields in use now, Miller ed improperly.”

¢plans to move men’s soccer from the
baseball outfield, and then make that
‘area restricted to baseball alone.
Although there appear to be no
more difficulties with the fields, the

* By Amy Packard
+ Staff Reporter

 

Once the problem was identified,
the terms of settlement had to be
agreed upon. The contractors, the
University representatives and the

STUDENTS-

Let us help you
shop for Xmas!

Something for
everyone-
in every
price range.
116 .N. Main St.

under the red tile roof
(across from Stop-In)

Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5:00

Marie’s Hair Stylers

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, Va. 24450
463-9588

 

 
 

PO i PP I Pg I Pe PS I I I i OO I
Cream of the Crop

11 S. Randolph St.
Handmade Christmas Crafts Special Orders
Need a a aa us nap!

  

 

 

Athletic Department decided to
agree on an equally divided respon-
sibility being unanimously averse to
the idea of taking the matter to court,
considering that no one would really
win the case, said Parsons.

Meanwhile, the Athletic Depart-
ment decided not to build a field
hockey field, and instead requested
another soccer field. Since soccer
fields can be constructed with
crowns, the contractors did not have
to face the possibility of faulty soil
mixture again. According to Par-
sons, another advantage to the
reconstruction was the timing of the
decision. The University was cur-
rently building more parking space
for the Law School and could utilize
the remaining soil dug from that pro-
ject to expand an athletic field.

Parsons described the steps of cor-
rection: ‘‘We augmented the sand,
went through several procedures of
removing the soil compound, and
redesigned the sprinkler system.”’

returning home to play Bridgewater on Wed., Dec. 9.

 

 

The new athletic fields will be ready in 1988.

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

 

A Pre-Fancy Dress

TRADITION :

Sth Anniversary Of H i i i
BALLROOM DANCING calee|e|ce

ATW&L
6 Wednesdays of

Rhumba, Foxtrot, Waltz
Tango, Cha Cha, Jitterbug
With Frank Roupas

Jan. 6 - Feb. 10, 1988
7:00 p.m.

$25 - per person
no partner needed
no advance registration
Student Center

 
            
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

OR
iMINSt

Staunton, Va
885-3409

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service
Full Menu Including Lobster Tails, |}
Lamb, Veal, italian And
Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close
Reservations suggested

 

 

- 9:00 p.m.

 

 

 

 
    
     

TYPISTS: Hundreds weekly
at home!
Write:
P.O. Box 17
Clark, New Jersey 07066

 

 

 

 

   

doors lovers.!

Come shop at Hunter and Huntress in Lexington for an in-
credible selection of gifts, turquoise jewelry, Tony Lama &
Herman Survivor Boots and super stocking stuffers for out- {er Y

 

Lexington, Virginia

Open Mon.-Sat. 10 : Fri. 10-6
: Sunday 12

  

 

For Fast Take-Out
Call Ahead - 463-2595
The Sandwich Shop

Old Main Mall

(across from Henry Street Playhouse)
Open Mon. - Sat. 11-5 p.m.

§ “Special This Week
‘“‘HOT’’ Ham & Cheese on a bagel $2.05
, with homemade vegetable soup $3.30
PVD LP EPO OPV DV PV PVPS OVO POOL VIN

PORE 0 SD 0 SD 0 ED) ED ED 0 ED) ED () GAD) ED) ED () SED ()

HOLLINS HAS A CRUSH
ON YOU W&L

of

Beta Theta Pi Phi Delta Theta Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Chi Psi Phi Gamma Delta Sigma Chi

Delta Tau Delta Phi Kappa Psi Sigma Nu

Kappa Alpha Phi Kappa Sigma Sigma Phi Epsilon

Kappa Sigma Zeta Beta Tau

Lambda Chi Alpha

Pi Kappa Alpha
Pi Kappa Phi

Keep your eye open for your invitation to

HOLLINS COLLEGE’S
Ist ANNUAL CRUSH PARTY
Feb. 5, 1988

TE) ED) BN) OME) BR |) PR) ER ) A) RE RE) eI (NERY)

en
Sa A A A) a

a S>S—

f e e
eorge’s Hairstylist
since 1963
directly behind Leggett’s

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell

 

 
     
      
   
  

$19.87
QUIET

Exam time is no time be sur-
rounded by noisy roomates
and distractions. For only
$19.87 plus tax, one or two
people may study in peace
and quiet at the Comfort Inn!
We'll keep the coffee co-
min... even remove the TV if
you'd like. Advance re-
servations and a valid ID are
required. Call us for re-
servations or information at
463-7311. Effective 12-10-87
through 12-17-87.

Si

—
463-7311

 

 

 
<BACK PAGE
Feelies to play W&L

  
   

 
 

ee
a By Gregory Ossi
Music Critic

 

 

Those crazy boys are at it again.
No this album is not the latest new
age music for yuppies from Japan,
nor does it involve slow, twanging
vibrations from (insert the name of
your favorite Chinese instrument
here.) Although you can be fooled by
the album’s cover of the two happiest
kelp fishermen I’ve ever seen.

This is the new album from the
Feelies, a highly nonconformist band
from Hoboken, New Jersey. Despite
the new name, Yung Wu, this is no
sidelight album from the Feelies. It
is a fully produced piece of the band
at its best, consistent with the quality
and originality of their last two
works. There is the folksy Feelies
sound of the dual and sometimes tre-
ble guitar playing of Glenn Mercer
and Bill Million, the impassioned
carefree voice of Dave Weckermen
and the beating of drums by Stanley
Demeski coming together to form
some hot tracks.

The album starts out with the title
song ‘‘Shore Leave.’’ A catchy tune
backed by a solid two-chord rythm by
the acoustic guitar filled in with a lit-
tle keyboards and electric guitar
riffs. The vocals are typical Feelies,
barely intelligible yet pleasant.
“Aspiration” the third song on the
first side is a contemplative song that

l LORIST rocks. The lyrics to the chorus go
i something like this; Till they
find/they can’t describe/in great
detail/the sight that fails/Aspiration,
its coming from the air/Inspiration,
it seeps from over. Alright, its not ex-
actly on the same philosophical plane
as U2 but this is a Feelies song and
lyrics aren’t that important. What is
important are those jangling guitars

 

2 : 2 = 2 = , Pu : y Photo
Dumptruck will open for The Feelies Friday night.

_—— = / ae
/ Lpytlere Mbitem
A tt) )

 

Po ane a ene

165 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450
(703) 463-9152

 

Fro ee eee canoe cam cemonm oem oenee

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1987

Pavilion

and folksy upbeat melodies that tend
to stick in your head.

There are several excellent covers
on this album. On side one there is a
well-down cover of Brian Eno’s “Big
Day.’’ They do justice to the Stones
“Child of the Moon”’ on the flip side.
By far the most impressive cover is
that of Neil Young’s “powerfinger,’’
one he should be proud of.

I keep refering to this band as the
Feelies which they are, but on the
album they have called themselves
Yung Wu. I hope no one is terribly
confused. This is a takeoff from their
live shows in which they seem to en-
joy appearing under a different
name.

The second side rocks as much as
the first side. ‘Eternal Ice’”’ sounds a
little heavy with the electric sound
more so than the rest of the songs but
it is still a great tune. Both “Strange
Little Man” and ‘“‘Modern Farmer”’
have all the qualities of a good song
and more. ‘Return to Zion,” the
third song on the B-side, encontpases
and shows off the talent the band has
for creating a song that has a sort of
unforgettable lasting to it.

What are people saying about this
album? CMJ, the college magazine
of progresive music raves, ‘‘it seems
that no matter what these boys lay
down on wax, it has a timeless quali-
ty to it.’” WLUR has placed it high on
their play list.

This review can’t do the album or
the group proper justice. You can,
however, seem them live during
Christmas Weekend on Friday,
December 4 when they highlight a
three band show sponsored by the
SAB. The concert also features
Dumptruck and Tommy Keene.
Tickets are on sale at the bookstore.

    

Thursday,December 3
All Day — CAREER DEV. &PLACEMENT: Resume Critique (walk-
in). Room 129, U.C. :
5 p.m.— CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Color Changes in the Super- &
market,’’ Richard M. Stratt, Brown University. Room 401, Howe Hall.
Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.—BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Greensboro. Warner Center.

Friday, December 4
All Day — CAREER DEV. & PLACEMENT:Dr. Stanley Cook, W&L
61 and '64L, environmental protection specialist and government
public relations officer, to offer career advice.Advance sign-up in
CD&P office is necessary.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY:’’When Father Was Away on Business.”’
Classroom ‘‘A’,”’ Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘Mass Appeal.” St. Patrick’s Church. For reserva-
tions, call W&L theatre office, 463-8637.

Saturday, December 5
1:30 p.m. — OPERA BROADCAST: Tosca.WLUR-FM (91.5).
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY: ‘When Father Was Away on Business.”
Classroom’’A’’ Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘Mass Appeal.’’ St. Patrick’sChurch. For reserva- _,
tions, call W&L theatre office, 463-8637.

Sunday, December 6 ‘
2:30 p.m. — ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: “A
Child’s Christmas inWales.”’ Lexington High School. f
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘Mass Appeal.” St. Patrick’s Church. For reserva-
tions, call W&L theatre office, 463-8637. :

Tuesday, December 8
4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: A
Reading by Peter Taylor. Reception tofollow. Northern Auditorium,
University Library. Public invited.
7:30 p.m.— LECTURE: “Focusing on Bulimarexia,” Dr. Marlene ‘
Boskind-White, St. Albans Psychiatric Hospital. Moot Courtroom,
Lewis Hall. Public invited.
8 p.m.— CHRISTMAS CONCERT: University Chorus, Glee Club,and
InstrumentalEnsembles. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

os

-

Wednesday, December 9 <
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: Billy Budd.Room 327, Commerce
School. :
7:30 p.m.— BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater. Warner ,
Center.

Thursday, December 10
— Reservation Deadline for University Women’s Christmas Party
4 & 7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: Billy Budd. Room 327, Com- +

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers
Gifts for all occasions Lexington, Va. 24450

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

PHONE 703-463-2022

BAHHUR’S MOVETIME RENTALS

Lexington-Buena Vista Shopping Park

The latest in Video Entertainment
Discount Card to W&L Students

703-463-9654

 

 

 

   

Oversized Canvas
Totebags Imprinted
Washington & Lee University
$9.95

Available:

J&B Office Supply

23 W. Washington St.
463-3432

 

 
  
 

in-Bennis

Fine Men’s Apparel

. : j Alu
a
Lexington, Virginia

Avoid the city rush and do your Christmas shopping here.

London Fog Raincoats

Formal Wear & Accessories
Woolrich Outerwear

Sero Shirts

Cashmere & Herringbone Topcoats

Ceramic Items for Sale
Free Gift Wrapping

Choice

    
    
    
       

   

E.S. Deans Sweaters
W&L Belts & Ties
Duck Head Pants
Kangol Hats

Bass & Walkover Shoes

 

 

MasterCard Student Charge

     

    
    
     
    
   
 
 

GREAT GIFTS
SUPER SERVICE

 

Halston and many more.

‘Come to McCrum’s and
Bring Your Shopping List!

-Extensive fragrance selection, including
Chanel No. 5, Shalimar, Estee Lauder,
Opium, Polo, Anais Anais, White Shoulders

-Russ Berries - plush animals and gifts.

-Russel Stover - candy in all sizes and varieties.

Free Gift Wrap, Delivery & 1988 Calendars
Free roll of film with each processing.

 

DINNER TAKE OUTS

 

 

SUNDAYS SPECIAL

 

 

WY

Enjoy fresh
flowers today!

Jaen:

 

Cole Slaw

eHors d‘oeuvres
¢Veggie-Beef Soup
¢Barbequed Chicken

Hot Corn Bread & Tub Butter
eMidnight Choc Cake Ala Mode

All for $5.00 American
AWESOME!

 

 

We offer some decent
Hors d'oeuvres and party
trays for holiday time

 

 

Florist to the Homestead

103 N, Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

 

 

 

 

SYCAMORE FARM MARKET

14S. Randolph St.
Open Seven Days

 

 

 

 

merce School.

7:30 p.m. — W&L Christmas Candlelight Service ofLessons and 4

Carols. R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church. Public invited. .
On T 1 Representative
or caaauahin eel to promote Parttime-Home Mailing
Spting Break Trip to Florida. Earn Program! ‘

money, free trips, and valuable
work experience.
Coll - Inter-Campus Programs
1-800-433-7747

Excellent Income! Details, send self:
addressed, stamped envelope. West,
Box 5877, Hillside, NU 07205

 

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

} 115 S. Main St.,

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-5968

 

 

 

 
 

  
 

‘Drug Store tne.

 

 
   
 
  
   
   
   

  

urprises
in Store!

   

Doritos
1-Lb. Bag !

$1 89

Busch Beer
12-Pk. 12-Oz. Cans

$399

Michelob Beer
6-Pk. 12-Oz. Bottles

$999

 
