 

 

 

* VOLUME 87, NUMBER 3

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

~~ Che Ring-tum Ph

 

 

 

 

‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA OCTOBER 1, 1987
‘identified as Tbiene = :
Alpha received 25 pledges each, Kap- by them.” Dean Buddy Atkins, 23
“By Andy Nixon pa Alpha 23, Sigma Alpha Epsilon 20, associate dean of students and IFC
+ Staff Reporter Phi Kappa Sigma and Phi Gamma_ advisor added that “the changes 20
Delta 17, Phi Kappa Psi 16, Pi Kappa _were predictable and crystal clear to
’ With the introductions, hand- Phi 15, Beta Theta Pi 14, Kappa anyone.”
shakes, and open houses now com- Sigma 13, Sigma Chi 11, Chi Psi 7, The second greatest problem men- 7.7
pleted, students are now expressing Sigma Nu 7, Lambda Chi Alpha and tioned by some fraternities was the 16
> opinions about this year’s Rush pro- Sigma Phi Epsilon 5, and Zeta Beta circulation of rumors. Ted Willard 15 14
gram. Tau 4. again remarked,’ “It is easy to get a3
Clearly, the freshman class receiv- “Dirty Rush” was regarded as a_ caught up in hearsay during Rush.”
» ed the greatest impact of the 1987 problem during the week. Ted William Thornton, president of Zeta
Rush. Willard of Sigma Phi Epsilon com- Beta Tau, stated, ‘Rumors about 11
Several freshman expressed the mented that, “No contact obviously houses are detrimental to the w.
+ Opinion that Rush was to short. was a farce. If all the houses followed system.’ The reason behind the oo
Charles Kranich, a pledge at Kap- all the rules it would be a good rumors is the lack of time to scout (a
* pa Sigma, expressed this idea by system, but I don’t think all the fraternities, according to various 4 “ U 2
, Stating, “It was difficult for both the houses followed all the rules.” fraternities. The consequences of this U = ojo >
" fraternities and the rushees to get to William Thornton of Zeta Beta Tau remain to beseen. si- =— v en 5 5
+ know each other well enough in such echoed the “Dirty Rush’ theme by Despite all the criticism, the —ix > ~ G) si W x 4
a short period of time.”’ saying that, ‘Everything (about change from a three week to a one © A Oloi oail=1—[2 i ‘we
Harley Welsh echoed this idea Rush’) went okay, but houses break- week Rush earned some positive O OD Sy) + TO 3 » \ ~ ©
»when he said, “There were not ing the rules wasa big problem.” reviews. O O Oo © | O A aA Oi =: Ww 4
enough parties to meet the guys.” Mark Farley, president of the In- Rob Beveridge of Lambda Chi re- = © Oo sa) | | © 4 m 1 (Q o
* Chris Giblin, another freshman terfraternity Council, when asked flected the positive aspects of Rush So oim pe) Oo s ae 3 OQ 3 a.
, Suggested that, “Rush should have about houses breaking rules said, by saying, ‘Rush was not drawn out, +i > > TO WM oO © oO W Sis ry)
been a little longer.”’ “Every fraternity in the system we like the time span. It worked out Js IiIzTIi=_— 12.10 O;® © Co) =| ~-
‘Despite the negative reactions, the _ voted for the Rush regulations, and I Oo Oliv jJ= 3 © Si 'v 3 Ol z OU wo
, fraternity system is not hurting asa find this frustrating because as + 11a] 0 —,- rom si v Sin a
* whole: Phi Delta Theta andPiKappa gentlemen they are obliged to abide“ See Rush, Page7 © FVMin fF OPO] | -—.j-.j—] =: i cCi2.imi-

Prowler in
‘Lexington

4 By Cheryl Bowles
Staff Reporter

 

 

+ Since June of this year, certain
Lexington residents have en-
* countered a prowler who stalks
, residential areas at night, according
to police. The problem has stepped
‘up since the return of Washington
, and Lee students for fall term.
The similarity of the incidents in-
* dicates that the same man is involv-
, ed in each of them.
The prowler is said to trespass
» residential property and peer into
houses through windows.
He is also alleged to have entered
+ two homes. He flees when spotted by
the residents, and he has never stolen
* anything or come in physical contact
« with anyone. His victims are usually
young, unmarried females.
In the event that the prowler is
« caught in the act, he can be arrested
for trespassing.
However, if he is caught having

.

 

‘ts Abb Jones
* Staff Reporter

 

Two of W&L’s 17 fraternities claim
» they have recently been victims of
vicious rumors — rumors they say
are untrue.
« Zeta Beta Tau President William
Thornton said recent rumors that
ZBT was closing began before Rush
when the ZBT national represen-
tative visited the house to give frater-
nity members a pre-Rush pep talk.
Thornton believes’ people
misunderstood the national represen-
tative’s visit as a sign for the worst.
“People made their presence a
negative thing, when actually it was
positive,” said Thornton. “Before

>.

-

.

-

*

=

*

. Peppiatt

 

‘ By Jennifer Brundowski
Staff Reporter

 

»  Wé&L has a visiting student from
. Oxford University this year Kate

» Peppiatt.

Peppiatt has just received her
degree in English from Oxford’s
+ University College. She chose to par-

ticipate in the program because of
* the scholarship that W&L offers
directly through Oxford.

She says that the year of
. study, ‘... suits me really well

because I don’t want to go into long-

* term academia.”
Peppiatt finds courses at W&L to

be very different from those in
y England. At Oxford, only one course
is taken per term, and they are
* taught through a “...one-on-one
tutorial system, which involves much
more studying on your own. There

+ arehardly any classes.”
At W&L she says that there are
» many more lectures, ‘‘and I'm not
sure if this is really fair, but the pro-
fessors seem much more accessible

» ... there is much more care taken of
you here.”’

* This is Peppiatt’s third trip to the
United States, but her first to
Virginia.

-* — “Pye found Virginia to be very dif-
ferent from California. This South-

 

 

 

 

Who needs the NFL?

W&L’s Rob Rimmer (5) tries to stop center tailback Mike Green from turning the corner.

Rush, word was getting back to me,
“Hey, are you closing? Are you
bankrupt?’”’

“People often mistake smallness
for weakness,’ added Thornton.
“[ZBT] is a small house, but a viable
house. The national representative
called us a model fraternity.”

Thornton said the worst part about
the rumors that ZBT was closing was
that they are untrue.

“Nothing could be farther from the
truth. People at other fraternity
houses were telling freshmen, ‘Why
are you at ZBT? They’re folding.’”’

Delta Tau Delta has also been vic-
timized by rumors that they are clos-
ing, since the house did not par-
ticipate in Rush this year.

Rush sanctions were imposed on

Delta Tau Delta after an incoming
freshman was seriously injured in an
automobile accident following a
Delta Tau Delta Rush party in
Maryland.

Delta Tau Delta President Kevin
Webb declined to comment due to ad-
vice from his lawyer, but ina letter to
last week’s Ring-tum Phi Webb
dispeled any rumors of the fraterni-
ty’s demise.

“We would like to make it clear
that the Delt house does currently ex-
ist as a fraternity and will continue to
exist as such on the W&L campus.
Although our Rush activities were
cancelled due to the sanctions, we
are still affiliated with our national
fraternity and have received their
full support in this difficult period.”

 

 

 

Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Besides the temporary damage to
ZBT and DTD’s reputations, there
have been other consequences.

Thornton and ZBT treasurer Greg
Bonn acknowledged that the rumors
hurt them in obtaining pledges. ZBT
currently has 4.

“We know of one case where,
because of the rumors, a freshmen
decided to wait before pledging
ZBT,”’ said Thornton.

‘People were a lot more reluctant
to come out to the house,” added
Bonn, acknowledging that freshmen
were likely to rule out rushing a cer-
tain fraternity if there is any doubt
about its future.

Thornton and Bonn said it was ob-
vious that the rumors were in cir-
culation by the time freshmen signed

Longshore

 

By Jennifer Brandowski
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Kate Peppiatt

North thing, for instance, is really
strong...I've heard several varying
versions of the history [of the United
States. ]”’

She also noted that, ‘People here
tell you proudly that they’re conser-
vative. I used to feel that I was

Lauren Batte/The Ring-tum Phi

moderately conservative, however
now I feel quite radical.”’
Peppiatt notes that there are a lot

of language differences between

See Kate, Page 7

Michael Longshore, W&L’s first
Oxford University exchange student,
has returned with a variety of stories
and observations, from his ex-
perience.

Longshore was chosen to par-
ticipate in the program after being
nominated by the English depart-
ment, writing essays, and being in-
terviewed by various W&L admin-

istrators.
An English/French major,
Longshore’ studied Victorian,

Modern, and Romantic literature at
Oxford.

He explained that students at Ox-
ford do not necessarily take ‘‘struc-
tured’ courses as at American
universities. Instead, most of the day
is spent doing independent study.

Longshore would meet on a weekly
basis with a tutor to read and discuss
his papers. These meetings required,
“* a great deal of confidence and
humility. You would read your own
paper to the tutor one on one.”

He recalls one particularly
stressful situation when after
reading the first paragraph of an
essay, his tutor questioned the main
point of his paper. Longshore noted,
however, that, ‘‘when he (the tutor)

IFC punishe

 

 

By David Emrich
Co-Editor
Yesterday, the Student Affairs

Committee confirmed the
punishments of four fraternities —
Chi Psi, Phi Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa
Phi and Sigma Phi Epsilon — for
violations of Inter-Fraternity Council
regulations.

The punishments were originally
handed out at the Sept. 23 meeting of
the IFC’s Judicial Board but had to
be approved by the SAC.

According to Associate Dean of
Students Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins,
the punishments were as follows:

Sigma Phi Epsilon received the
harshest punishment. They were
given four weeks of Social Probation

_ for a Sept. 19 noise violation and

because the IFC” deterininéd the
house’s party of the same date was
out of control.

According to Atkins the IFC came
to the decision that the party was out
of control from the police reports and
the admission of several house of-
ficers who said they weren’t around
to control the party.

‘Fraternity rumors are untrue; Delt and ZBT are alive and

up for open houses, because of the
reluctance of freshmen to sign up.

“I'd heard that people were saying
the two of us (ZBT and DTD) were
gone,”’ Thornton said. ‘Our (ZBT)
national representatives are op-
timistic and we are optimistic about
the future.”

Thornton said that ZBT’s finances
are solvent and that as long as there
is one member of ZBT at the W&L
campus, ZBT will continue to exist.

Thornton added that the ZBT
rumors even managed to get back to
Dean of Fraternities Leroy C. Buddy
Atkins and the Interfraternity Coun-
cil, both of whom questioned Thorn-
ton about the allegations.

“Dean Atkins didn’t put too much
credence in the rumors, but he did

houses

Sigma Phi Epsilon President
Maverick Noble said the incident oc-
cured after the person in charge of
the party had shut it down and gone
home.

“Tt was unfortunate because a few
individuals messed things up for the
whole house.”

Sig Ep appealed the original deci-
sion by the IFC so their social proba-
tion began yesterday.

“Obviously we thought the punish-
ment was too harsh or we wouldn’t
have appealed the decision,’ said
Noble.

“But they make the rules, we have
tolive by them.”

Phi Kappa Sigma was also severly
punished.

Phi Kap was found guilty of serv-
ing hard alcohol at a rush party and
was fined $1000 and given two weeks
of social probation.

This was Phi Kap’s second viola-
tion of rush regulations. Had there
been a third violation, they would
have had their rush priveledges
suspende for a year. There is,
however, no danger of this occuring

See IFC, Page7

well

want to know what was going on,”
said Thornton.

This is not the first instance of a
rumor causing harm to ZBT. Thorn-
ton said last year, a professor made
an off-hand comment concerning
drug use at ZBT during one of his lec-
tures.

Although Thornton said the faculty
member later made a_ formal
apology, the comment did cause
some damage to ZBT’s reputation,
according to Thornton.

“His comment, which was
overheard by a fraternity member
during class, was ‘When they close
ZBT down they’re going to run the
drug dogs through the house and

_] See Frats, Page 5

Wa&L’s first Oxford exchange students note cultural differences

 

 

Michael Longshore

was speaking, the time spent was
more valuable.”’

Longshore emphasizes the vast
degree of knowledge of the tutors, or
“dons.”

‘They are some of the most erudite
people that I’ve ever come across.

 

 

Lauren Batte/The Ring-tum Phi

They are not necessarily the best
teachers, but the kind of knowledge
that they have and can reproduce is
just incredible ... they would quote

See Mike, Page 7
 

 

OPINION
Beauty?

Parking at Washington and Lee, as noted in last week’s edi-
tion of The Ring-tum Phi, is quite a formidable undertaking
for students. Everyone seems to be saying that there is not
enough available space, but it does not seem that very much
has been done about it, except throwing around wonderful
‘ideas’, such as a parking garage, that will take a long time
to build.

There are some easier options that should not be as.expen-
sive or time-consuming. For example, it has been suggested
that the ‘‘corral’’, the parking lot at the bottom of the hill, be
enlarged so more cars can fit. However, as University Proc-
tor Charles ‘‘Murph’’ Murphy said last week, the university
architects do not want the corral to look like the parking lot at
a shopping center.

However, the corrals ‘‘beautiful’’ design frequently looks
like the aftermath of the World of Wheels Bigfoot Truck Car
Smashing show. All the landscaping is for naught as
students, who have paid to park in the lot, are forced to park
over the curbs and on the grass. Mix in a little rain for spice,
and there is enough mud to make any pig happy.

Also, the brilliantly placed wooden parking obstacles not
only restrict access, they are a danger to any car larger than
a go-cart. With all the double and triple parking, it is all too
easy to catch a door on the wood, or worse, another car. Why
should students have to pay a parking fee just to endanger
their cars?

Surely there is an architect who can figure a way to enlarge
the corral without having it look like the Washington and Lee
Discount Mall. Perhaps take out the trees and surround the
lot with hedges.

Increased parking would not only help the students, it
would take a lot of the parking load off the city of Lexington.
The University must remember they have an obligation not
to unduly infringe upon the community at large.

Not here

Every year the same old subject reappears at Washington
and Lee: student apathy. Either people are upset because no
one came to a prominent speaker, a seminar was cancelled
due to lack of interest or everyone left after halftime at the
Homecoming football game.

W&L students seem to have a knack for not attending

‘athletic events. A quick look at the stands shows a glaring
lack of members of the student body. Of course, at past
Homecomings the stands are always filled during the second
quarter, but as soon as the queen is crowned (and kissed as
only Professor Shillington can) there is a mass exodus to the
nearest cocktail party.

Perhaps the only things students can muster the ambition
to attend are fraternity parties (and perhaps classes, if the
weekend wasn’t too rough). There is nothing wrong with par-
ties, and they definitely have a place in university life.

But what about athletic events? All the teams at W&L work
exceedingly hard at their respective sports, which is amaz-
ing since none of the players receive scholarships for their
participation. It would be great if the students would give
support to those athlete-scholars by bringing some spirit (as
well as themselves) to games.

Not only does apathy indirectly insult the players, it puts
the university in a bad light. It is embarassing to see a pic-
ture of the W&L football team playing with near-empty
stands in the background. Those photos do not paint a very
enthusiastic picture of the university.

All the students should try this at the next football game:
instead of asking around to find out the final score, stay for
the entire game. Although the stands are not lined with kegs,
it is a social atmosphere. Move around, talk to friends. And
most of all cheer for the team; they deserve it.

 

CORRECTION

In last week’s Ring-tum Phi there was an error in the
letter from Delta Tau Delta President Kevin Webb. The
last lines should have read, ‘‘Although our rush activities
were cancelled due to the sanction, we are still affiliated
with our national fraternity and have received their full
support in the difficult period. And with their assistance
we plan to appeal the decision next term. In conclusion,
we would like to thank all of the fraternities at W&L for
| their wupport for it is greatly appreciated.”

 

ee ee

 

 

Che

NEW STAFF

Ring-tum Phi

Co-editors
David Emrich

Sed Peter Boatner
Se ee Chris Munsey
Lis Fe bbs say 0a ba tees Mike Shady

ieee: Michael Tuggle
ea eee Perry Hayes

.. Katherine Graci

News Editor ..
Assignment Editor
Sports Editor wed
Estertainment Bdltor . .... 0... crscccccececess
PRONTO AOE bose cs te ees
Cops Editor eee

EDITORIAL PAGE STAFF

Editorial Page Editor
Cartoonist

..... Sean Bugg
Stephen Ingram

BUSINESS STAFE
Business Manager Rhona Hughes

Assistant Business Manager

. Jason Faust
Advertising Manager............- .. Christie Champlin
Pee A i Eddie Klank
The Ring-tum Phiis published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee, The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent,
Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 20k of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, V4 24150. This newspaper observes current court

definitions of libel and obscenity

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987

 

 

 

the. thoee idlvots Came to he ee

a clresseck the Same. 2

 

By Stephen Ingram

 

Organizations are not autonomous

 

MY VIEW
By Frank Watson

 

When deciding to attend W&L, I
was heavily influenced by the tradi-
tion that the school offered: I ad-
mired the all male,campus with its
conservative yet open-minded at-
titude, and attitude that preferred to
follow the established campus chan-
nels when advocating change and
discussing public policy. Back then
governing campus bodies were not
viewed with contempt, as they so
often are today, because the students
had a decisive control over the out-
come of events; that is, the success
or failure of organizations such as the
Executive Committee and the Honor
Code, the Inter-Fraternity Council,
the Student Activities Board, the
Ring-tum Phi, the Student Conduct
Committee, and the Student Affairs
Committee, as well as numerous
other influential bodies, depended
solely upon the student body. The
members of these organizations let it
be known that they were selected to
convey and enact the opinions and at-
titudes of the student body at large.

Yet as a senior I feel that the
autonomy of past student bodies has
fallen by the wayside as the Universi-
ty administration has unrightfully
forced its will upon us. The ad-
ministration has moved into student

 

By Scott Dittman
University Registrar

 

1 thought about expounding on
matters registrarial but they
reveal little about me as an in-
dividual and are rarely controver-
sial or even mildly interesting.
Rather, I prefer to expose
something of myself in order to
open a channel of communication
between ‘‘Us"’ and ‘‘Them”’.

Identity is a concept we have
been seeking to define since Adam
and Eve rebelled against God.
(Don’t expect the ultimate defini-
tion here.) In mathematics, it is
the number which when
multiplied by another takes on the
other’s value (i.e. the number 1).
In human affairs, personality is
often defined by listing the in-
dividual's characteristics or
associations. To some I am
already ‘‘Scott’’; still ‘‘Mr. Ditt-
man” to many ("'Dad”’ to a select
few). I've been labelled ‘‘a unique
individual’ and the registrar who
“wants us to be like everyone
else.’ In the commencement line
last June a soon-to-be-graduate
attempted to box me in as either a
liberal or conservative though
neither of his definitions nailed

 

organizations and dictated the way
things were to be run _ while
simultaneoulsy convincing newly
elected student leaders that they
could best do their jobs by ‘‘not rock-
ing the boat.” Soon the student body
is electing leaders into the system
that accept things as they are, as if
the overlording administration in
student affairs is not an unwclcome
interference but somehow a guiding
tradition. As a result, I think that we,
the student body, have unknowingly
supported leaders who are out for
personal goals rather than student
service. Maybe it’s a bit cynical, but
I think you can see it everywhere
from the EC and the IFC to the SAB
and the Mock Convention: students
who look for resume fillers and upon
obtaining positions become mouth-
pieces for the administration as they
coast into grad school.

It’s said all over the campus that
W&L is ushering in a new age of in-
tellectualism with the addition of
women, and students with higher
SAT scores and better gpa’s, but
from a social view, I say that W&L, is
slipping quite complacently into a
new age of passivity. More and more
students feel that nothing can be done
about administratin policy, and at
best they express a hopeless attitude
that everything is going to hell. Let’s
take a look at some of W&L’s pro-
blems as a sign of the times of this
passivity.

One problem that many students
have with the administration is the
increasing IFC laws that limit frater-
nity activities. Now, I agree that with

the new drinking laws, fraternities
must accept the ensuing responsibili-
ty and liability facing them, but I find
the IFC rush rules to be idiotic and
seemingly destructive to the fraterni-
ty system as a whole. Ok, the IFC is
in some deep bullshit, but why do
students jump all over Buddy
Adkins? I think we should take an ex-
istential approach to our problems:
let’s hold ourselves and our student
leaders responsible. I don’t want to
sound like some sixties radical, but if
the fraternities are unsatisfied with
the IFC why don’t we practice a little
civil disobedience by nobody showing
up to the next meeting ... if only this
campus had a few balls.

Another concept which I feel has
slipped away from the student’s
grasp is Honor. Last spring term the
student body sat and watched while a
W&L professor singlehandedly dic-
tated to them what “honor”’ in his
class was. Essentially the student
body was being told that someone
other than themselves should be ap-
pealed to when defining honor, and
when the verdict came, it was ap-
parent that we, the jury, had taken
this hogwash hook, line, and sinker.
Again, those who disagree with the
decision were more than willing to
blame someone other than
themselves. In the failure to believe
that we have the right to police
ourselves, the student’s control fell
another notch.

My last example of the growing
student conformity and passivity
ironically has to do with the Ring-
tum Phi itself. One would hope that

 

FROM THE HILL

me. Whenever someone attempts
to define or categorize you or me
as individuals, they will fail to
capture our essence or vitality.
Point of view seems to have a lot
to do with it. “You’’ are a
homogeneous, spoiled, narrow
group of children. ‘I’? am
somewhere between an_insen-
sitive, midwestern bureaucrat
and the image of God. I don’t
believe W&L intentionally admits,
produces or hires homogenized in-
dividuals though many seek to
take their identity from others or
from their work and thus appear
to have the same consistency.
Some seek to manipulate others in
order to achieve a sense of identi-
ty. (Though recognizable in any
gathering, especially on campus,
the most glaring example of this is
my recent experience is the
“Christian’’ Identity Movement
which seeks to establish for its
adherents and society as a whole
the ‘proper’ identity and rela-
tionship of all races to the
‘“‘superior’’ Aryans.) We judge
each other by the most superficial
traits rather than allowing our ac-
complishments and failures to
reveal each others’ true natures.
Ten years ago W&L’s own Tom
Wolfe was given credit for labell-

ing the ‘‘Me”’ generation of which
you and I are supposedly a part.
Late night cable is full of self-
improvement seminars and
magazines provide myriad self-
awareness tests, all in the name of
personal development and
satisfaction. Yet I watch the
freshman struggling to discover
her identity apart from family
and hometown. I see the senior
struggling to discover who he is
“supposed” to be as a college
graduate or budding corporate ex-
ecutive. Students in between seek
to “find myself’ and new faculty
and staff are forced to elbow their
way into established Lexington or
W&L niches.

When you tell the folks ‘I don't
know who I am’’ you mean you
are not satisfied with what you
already know yourself to be.
(Margaret Halsey) ‘I'm having
an identity crisis’’ means I'm too
wrapped up in myself to think
about you. Rather than succumb-
ing to the lies of narcissism and
hedonism (Buber’s I-I or I-It), we
must recognize that we do not ex-
ist, in fact cannot survive, alone.
We exist in relationships on
physical, social, intellectual and
spiritual planes, Losing ourselves
in relationship with God and with

this paper would have the guts to
print the truth about campus affairs
as well as serve as a public forum no
matter how sensitive the issue. But
alas the Phi, like other organizations,
has succumbed to pressure from
above. In the Honor Code white book
under “Section O,”' it is stated that
the EC has the right to revoke the
Phi’s allocated funds if it should print
anything about an open or close trial.
The reasoning-behind this is that the
paper is read by those other than of
the W&L community, and because of
this fact, honor trial news should not
be printed. How crass and self-
severing this is for the EC to man-
date! If we are to assume that non-
W&L people should be ignerant of our
Honor Code, the logically follows that
we, the students, should be accoun-
table for honesty only when we are
within the idyllic bounds of W&L.
Furthermore, the EC has, in the past,
let comments on trial proceedings go
when they agreed with the paper’s
viewpoint.

All of this is to say that ‘Section
O”’, which seems to be an idea trickl-
ed down from the administration,
has, like other organizational rules,
hindered the student body’s freedom
of speech and added to the feeling
that W&L is controlled by someone
other than ourselves. My suggestion
is that the students take on the at-
titude that we are ir the driver’s seat,
that we are the ones who make and
change University policy. If this can
be done, the above problems will take
care of themselves. If not, this really
will be the W&L country club.

What makes a person individual?

other people (I-You)  short-
circuits the ever-narrowing spiral
of ‘‘me-ism”’ and expands our op-
portunities for growth and
development. Kind of “If you
would find your identity, you must
lose your identity.’’ Community
activism, classroom  confronta-
tion, and idle discussion over a
beer at the Palms are equally
valuable in discovering identity
when motivated by the thirst to
know the Other. The never-
ending, always-changing process
of “identity’’ frying is filtered
through and confirmed by our ex-
perience on all levels. For me this
has been especially true of the
spiritual.

Whether identity comes Pro-
videntially, through hard work
and many errors, or a combina-
tion of both, it is not something to
be found. Identity —character,
personality, vitality, essence — is
developed by making choices and
accepting responsibility

Well, now you can add “‘opinion-
writer-and-not-a-very-good-one"'
to your view of my identity. I have
an identity. I need not search any
longer. Rather, my time will best
be spent in getting to know more
deeply both my Creator and you
What about you?

 

 

 
-OPINION/NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987

 

Students fi

 

By Stephanie Guittard
Staff Reporter

    

 

Would you rather work ten hours a
week, on campus, at $100 a month, or
work as much as 20 hours a week, off
campus, and make $100 a week in-
cluding tips?

This is a question that those
students who are eligible for the
work-study program ask themselves.

There are 150 W&L students who
participate in the program, which
pays $3.35 an hour. Freshmen can
earn $600 a term, and upperclassmen
can earn $1,100

Some argue that this is not enough,
and Financial Aid Director John H.
DeCourcy recognizes the problem.

“{It] sounds fairly simple, but it’s
extremely complicated to execute ...
For one thing, we don’t have an open-
ended award on work-study ... Earn-
ing the money fits into a financial aid
package. If [students] excede the
| allowed] earnings, it starts chewing
up other aid that they could get.

‘Another thing I’m concerned
about is treading on the heels of the
regular part-time employees of the
university ... You have to be careful
of creating a situation where you
have a work-study making more than
a part-time secretary. I’m not saying

 

   

disparity in job pay

>

 

 

“

.

; ee
Amanda Hughen/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Student employees Betsy Vegso and Rich Hurley dish up dinner in the Dining Hall.

the work-study student might not
deserve it, I’m just saying that it’s
something you’ ve got to analyse.”’

Some students do choose to work in
Lexington rather than on the W&L
campus.

“They work off campus to make
more money, but that’s their option. I
think more power to you if you can do
it. There are not unlimited employ-
ment opportunities in Lexington. I
have guys come in and say, “I’m go-

ing to work at Spanky’s, I can make a
lot more working there.’ Like I said,
I haven’t seen it work out very well.

See Work, Page7

Cognitive Studies Program creates new courses

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

What do Computer Science,
Psychology, and Philosophy have in
common?

The Cognitive Studies Program.

At first glance, it seems strange
that these three majors would inter-
relate. However, according to Pro-
fessor of Psychology David Elmes,
the Cognitive Studies Program is
simply ‘‘a confederation of [these]
disciplines that all happen to be in-
terested in cognition or intelligence.”

Elmes and Ramsey Martin, pro-
fessor of Philosophy, are co-directors
for the new program.

The program first developed a few
years ago when a group of faculty
members realized that they were all
interested in one thing—how the
human mind works. Dean John Elrod
then encouraged the faculty to ac-
quire a grant so that the program
could be started.

The staff members received a five
year grant that was funded by The
Mellon Foundation.

This grant enabled four professors
to attend a four-week seminar on

LETTERS

Wilson appeals for United Way

cognition at Stanford University this
summer.

Martin spent the 1987 winter term
at the Institute for Cognitive Science
at the University of Colorado.

Besides helping prepare the staff,
the money also helped to provide the
library with related books and
material as well as providing for
visiting speakers.

The term ‘‘cognitive studies”’ is not
new. It has existed for about fifteen
years, but Martin describes the study
as ‘looking at old problems in new
ways.”

‘“‘No one can make sense out of a

in appeal to all members of the Washington and
Lee University community — Faculty, Students and

Staff:

Once more I-bavye.ithe pleasure of writing to. . .-:

you on behalf of the United Way and its annual
solicitation of support for the many and varied
agencies that comprise this community effort.

As citizens of Lexington and Rockbridge Coun-
ty, we enjoy the rare privilege of living in a truly
pleasant place. Through the efforts of our City
Council and Board of Supervisors, our tax
dollars are stretched as far as possible to bring
us the range of services that most citizens expect
of their local governments. Even so, we must de-
pend upon our own initiatives and our own
resources to make certain that all of our fellow
citizens have the opportunity to enjoy a quality of
life that many of us take for granted.

This means help in a variety of forms for those
who need it. It also means support for many of
our organizations that enrich the community ex-
perience for us all. In both instances, support of
the United Way is a proven method for extending
our generosity in both of these important direc-
tions.

Each year, members of our University family
assume roles of leadership in the United Way
campaign, giving unselfishly of their time and
energy. Our campus support this year is under
the direction of Jerry Darrell and Larry Pep-
pers, and I know that we shall all want to en-
courage them with the same _ enthusiastic
response we made to David Parker’s splendid
leadership in 1986.

The University’s share of the United Way 1987
goal is $25,000, a modest increase over last year
but a critically important one within the overall

($116,000) campaign objective. We did more than
was asked in 1986, and as we respond in
characteristic manner this year, we shall again
assure the success of the United Way. Your
generous support is earnestly solicited. ~

Sincerely,
John D. Wilson
President

Security explains fines

Dear Editor,
In last week’s Phi article on parking, no mention
was made of a rather substantial change regar-
ding enforcement of University Motor Vehicle
Regulations and penalties, and we were unable
to point out this change to the 1,150 students who
registered cars during matriculation. Article C,
section 6 now reads: ‘‘Parking fines are con-
sidered official financial obligations due the
University. Unless paid directly by the student
involved, they will be billed monthly, at twice the
normal amount, to parents or others responsible
for payment of the student’s University tuition
charges.” Appeals for tickets must be made
within ten days to us or the Dean of Students of-
fice, and after that they will be turned over to the
Business Office.

We appreciate all the cooperation in the mat-
ter of parking that you, the student body, faculty,
and staff are able to muster.

Sincerely,

Charles F. Murray (Murph)
William Datz

Department of University Security

 

 

person who is a body and has a
mind,”’ he said.

How does the human mind work?
How can we make a machine that
will think as a human does? These
are some of the questions that a
cognitive scientist asks.

A practical demonstration of
cognitive studies at work is robotics.
Other topics that fall under the
cognitive studies category are the
development of speech and any
neuroscience. Some courses taught

See Studies, Page7

VRB sets elections

 

By John Starks
Staff Reporter

 

The Voting Regulations Board is
readying itself for freshman elec-
tions for EC representatives and
class officers.

Elections are scheduled for Mon-
day, Oct. 19.

But VRB chairman, Bill Londry,
wants to do more than just announce
and run the election.

He wants freshmen to meet their
candidates before the election.

Such a meeting would help
alleviate the problem that, ‘‘so many
freshmen don’t know other people,”’
said Londry.

Candidates will give short
speeches to introduce themselves
and what they hope to accomplish in
their desired offices.

EC members raised a few ques-
tions about this assembly. Vice
President Pat Schaffer emphasized
the necessity of time limits on
speeches but said he hoped this kind

of meeting would help detract from
the personality contests past
freshman elections have [become ].”’

Junior representative, Chris
deMovellan, mentioned the
likelihood of sparse freshman atten-
dance. Londry, however, said he does
not think it should be ‘‘too much trou-
ble for freshmen to meet for about
forty-five minutes.”’

deMovellen then suggested that the
assembly be advertised as an official
class meeting for freshmen.

Third year law representative,
Powell Starks, said candidates and
voters alike must be informed of the
responsibilities that each officer
holds.

President Brad Root added that the
VRB must publicize the election to
get freshmen interested in running
for office.

Petitions requiring fifty signatures
for each candidate will be available
Monday, October 5 in the University
Center. Petitions are due by Oct. 12.

Candidates will meet with the VRB
and EC before the regular EC
meeting Monday, Oct. 12.

Sisters audition held

 

By Shaun Crawford

 

Staff Reporter

On the night of Thursday,
September 24, about two dozen
students, faculty, and Lexington

residents gathered at the Henry
Street Playhouse for the first of two
nights of tryouts for Anton Chekov’s
play The Three Sisters.

“We had a nice turnout.”’ said Dr.
Al Gordon, chairman of the Fine Arts
Department and director of the play.
“Forty showed for a cast of twelve.”’

The tryouts drew those not only in-
terested in drama, but also those
wishing to meet new people in a com-
fortable atmosphere.

Schuyler Rideout, a freshman from
Charlotte N.C., worked on stage
direction at Salem Academy and she

said, “I love it. I’ts a good way to
meet people, though I’m just a little
bit nervous.”’

Bill Holt, also a freshman said, “‘I
haven't acted in four years but I’ve
been in three major productions. I’m
taking fourteen credit hours and a
PE. this term, but I have a lot of free
time.”’

Bayard Lyons, a junior, said acting
at school provides a ‘‘diversion from
the regular class schedule and is a
good way to meet people.’

Rehersal begins September 27 and
runs until opening night on October
31, the Staurday of Prents Weekend.
The play will open on Saturday so as
not to coincide witb the Glee Club’s
presentation to the student's parents

on Friday night.

“We try to provide a theatre ex-
perience for the parents, to see what
the students are doing,”’ said Gordon.

 

 

 

 

A AN AS IRL ET RE ER ET ES
Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

 

TALKBACK

What do you think of student apathy at athletic events?

 

 

 

 

Lucy Anderson, junior: “So
many people are involved in
sports that nobody really has time
to attend other events.”

 

 

 

 

Chris Cunningham, junior: ‘1 go
to the ones I have time for. I have
a lot of studying to do
academics take up more time.”

Chris Wiman, senior:
“Commensurate with the quali
ty.”

 

 

 

 

Craig Hatfield, freshman
‘People don’t feel the need to be
there. Half of them go as a social
event and then leave in the mid-
dle. Maybe it’s because we're
Division III

Horses? What horses?

W&L students make a semi-annual trek to Charlottesville for the Foxfield races.

 

 

Jack Pringle, sophomore: ‘I’m
concerned many people look at
athletic events only as_ social
events and ignore the fact that
there’s some good athletics taking
place.”

Ee

Henry Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

 

   

este
Photos by
Perry Hayes

 

 

 

 

 

Carrie Jennings, sophomore:
“Maybe it’s because the teams
aren't that strong — they’re Divi
sion III. If people want to go to a
college game, it’s worth the drive
to UVA or something.”

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987

Students describe Lexington’s summer character

 

By David McDowell
Staff Reporter

 

There can be little doubt but that
Lexington is a college town. A quick
consideration of the number of
barber shops or the fast food
establishments per capita is proof
positive.

Few, if any, of us need any such
date—simply going through the mo-
tions here in Lexington provides pro-
of enough that W&L and VMI are an
integral part of it.

What becomes of Lexington in the
summer then? Probably every W&L
student has imagined what Lex-
ington must be like after virtually all
of the students have left.

Alternately you might picture the
town weathering out its economic dry

season—the city’s coffers awaiting
relief in September with the next
harvest of parking tickets and drunk
and disorderly fines—or maybe the
town rejoieces, breathes a sigh of
relief with its much needed
vacation—no more students parking
their cars from dawn till dusk in the
two-hour zones, and at least con-
siderably fewer drunk and disorderly
persons staggering toward Lloyd's
for the obligatory, much touted 2:00
a.m. six-alarm chili dog

Each summer certain W&L
students stay on in Lexington for
various reasons. Some stay purely
out of convenience; they're paying
rent anyway, and there is usually
work through the university (i.e.,
summer scholars, departmental
research, etc.) as well as the town
itself.

Dance theatre opens

From Staff Reports

 

The North Carolina Dance Theater
will open the season for the
Rockbridge Concert-Theatre Series
on Sunday, October 4 at 2:30 p.m. at
Lexington High School. W&L stud-
ents may attend all R.C.T.S. perfor-
mances for no charge due to the
substantial support given by the
University.

“Regional ballet companies are
rarely top-notch in all respects. But
when they are good, they can be very
good—and this is what the North
Carolina Dance Theater proved
splendidly..." praised the NEW
YORK TIMES.

Acclaimed for its skill at perform-
ing classical, contemporary and
modern works, the NCDT presents
eclectic programs including some of
the most exciting, challenging and
entertaining choreography of our
time. It encompasses a wide variety
of styles and moods, ranging from
such classics as Bournonville’s
Napoli (Act II1), Balanchine’s Allegro
Brillante and Scotch Symphony to
more conte orary works such as Sen-
tra Driver's Resettings, Lar Lubovit-
ch’s Les Noces and Elisa Monte’s
White Dragon. A _ half-dozen new
works are added each season, many
created especially for NCDT by

choreographers from all over the
world.

NCDT was founded in 1970 by
Robert Lindgren and has consistent-
ly attracted a diverse and widely
talented assemblage of professional
dancers. Of the 18 artists currently
dancing with the company, about
half of them have received their pro-
fessional training at the interna-
tionally acclaimed North Carolina
School of the Arts in Winston-Salem,
when the company is based. Others
come to Dance Theater from com-
panies in New York, Texas, Penn-
sylvania and various other locations.
The dancers combine a rich variety
of talents and backgrounds, giving
NCDT the versatility to perform a

wide range of material.
Performing 20-25 weeks each
season, the NCTD appears

throughout the United States and in
Europe. In the past, it has had an ex-
tensive touring record in North
Amerrcan with outstanding reviews.
NCDT has performed in small towns
and large cities, and at such major
festivals as the American Dance

Festival in Durham, N.C., the
Spoleto Festival U.S.A. in
Charleston, S.C., the Festival de
Musica in Estoril, Portugal, La

Danse a Aix in Aix-en-Provense,
France and the Festival of the Two

Certainly these students get to see
Lexington a little more clearly than
most of us. Lexington becomes a
town in her own right to them, not
just a by-product of W&L and VMI.

So radical a thought might at first
seem too much for the average W&L
student, but those summer hangers-
on interviewed found the experience
enjoyable, if wholly different.

“T guess the biggest difference is
that there's always something fun go-
ing on during school,’’ explains Kelly
Shifflett, a sophomore who stayed on
doing psychology research. ‘‘Sum-
mertime is what you make it. There’s
nothing already going on all the
time.”

“It’s a very different town,”’
agrees Margaret Pimblett, a junior,
who in addition to assisting the sum-
mar scholars program, gave tours at

series

Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, where they
received four standing ovations.

This performance in Lexington is
made possible, in part, by a grant
from the Virginia Commission for the
Arts, which received substantial fun-
ding from the National Endowment
for the Arts, a federal agency. Con-
tributions from local businesses and
individuals are also a major souce of
funding in order to keep tickets
reasonably priced.

There is no charge for W&L
students. Additional tickets for this
performance are $10 for adults and $4
for students or a subscription to the
entire series of events is $30 for
adults and $8 for students. The entire
series includes performances by the
North Carolina Dance Theater, the
Amherst Saxophone Quartet, the
musical 4 Child’s Christmas in Wales,
the Boys Choir of Harlem, and the
Ellis Marsalis Jazz Quartet. For
tickets or more information call
Yvonne Emerson at 463-4219 or Lee
RiCharde at 463-9670.

While in our community, the North
Carolina Dance Theater will teach a
master class for intermediate
students following the performance
on Sunday, October 4 from 5:00 to
6:30 p.m. at Southern Seminary
Junior College in Buena Vista. The
fee is $10. Reservations must be
made in advance by calling 463-9670.

the Stonewall Jackson House. She
cites the dearth of blaring stereos
and honking horns and the surplus of
parking places as some of the more
obvious differences

“It’s a whole lot more laid back. It
makes you realize how much your ac

tivities depend on students,’’ says
junior Sean Bugg
For the most part though the

students inverviewed claim that Lex-
ington does not shut down as much as
most students would think. ‘Most of
the [local] things keep  going,”’
asserts Pimblett. Although the
Palms does take a one-week vacation
during the summer season, both it
and Spanky’s continue as social focal
points for Lexington. Their business
is simply drawn from a generally
tamer crowd of locals who descend
on the bars after the student-zealots

leave

Oddly enough, VMI takes on a
somewhat social role during the sum-
mer months. VMI's two summer ses-
sions are not run with the same
gulag-like restrictions of her regular
terms

“I got to meet people at VMI,
which normally doesn’t happen
because of the differences between
the schools ... it was a good ex-
perience to see them [the VMI
students] as ‘normal’ college
students,’’ remarked Shifflett.

Apart from whiling away their
time at Goshen, students found enter-
tainment in the form of live perfor-
mances at the Lime Kiln Theatre and
The Henry Street Playhouse or by
trying to familiarize themselves as
closely as possible with Lexington.

Pimblett took the latter diversion

to its most literal application. ‘‘I got
a map of Lexington and decided to *
cover every Street in the town before ,

the summer Was over,”’ she explains.

Most of the Summer minks agree :

that the first few days after the bulk

of the students had left were a little

disconcerting.
“T had about two days ...

when I

wondered what the hell I'd gotten '
myself into. | was alone in this big |

house—I would just leave the T.V. on
for noise,”’ Shiflett recalled.

“T thought I'd made a_ serious
mistake,”

admitted Bugg. Said he, ’

“For about three weeks I was bored ,

out of my mind.”’ He cited big phone

bills as an unpleasant side effect of '

the difficult transition period.
Bugg, a native of Fredonia, Ken-

) See Summer, Page7

 

File Photo

Terry Lynn Wright, Ralph Hewitt and Robin Franklin of Clowns and other.

W&L professors translate 15th-century Buddhist manuscript

 

By Christie Champlin
Staff Reporter

 

Even from a short conversation
with Ann and Minor Rogers, the im-
mense interest they share in
Japanese Buddhism is obvious. This
interest and a lot of dedication led
them to the task of translating a
manuscript from the 15th century.
The text, which is titled Ren-
nyoshoninofumi, was written by Ren-
nyo. Rennyo was responsible for the
establishment of Pure Land Bud-
dhism, the largest and most powerful
Buddhist movement in Japanese
history. The basic concept of Pure
Land Buddhism is that humans are
passion-filled people and, therefore,
cannot do anything to fulfill their
salvation. It is necessary to trust in
Amid Buddha, the Buddha of com-
passion and wisdom who has vowed
to save sentient beings, according to
Minor Rogers, the head of the
religion department at Washington
& Lee and the Jessie Ball duPont
Professor of Religion. This sect of
Buddhism differs from Zen Bud-
dhism in that Zen places a large em-
phasis on seated meditation.

Pure Land Buddhism began in In-
dia, was elaborated in China, and
was refined in Japan. Shinran was
the founder of the movement in
Japan. Rennyo, the author of the
translated text, institutionalized
Shinran’s religious teachings. This
caused the growth in the popularity
of the sect. Rennyo is ‘‘best known
for the letters he wrote to explain the
teachings and express the process of
salvation,’ explains Rogers. He
wrote in the language of the people in
order to make the teachings simple.

After Rennyo’s death, approx-
imately 250 letters were collected.
This group of letters became known
as the Gojo Ofumi. They have
become part of the Buddhist scrip-
ture and are used by priests during
services. The present scripture con-
tains around 2,500 texts. Four or five
years ago Minor Rogers was invited
to translate a text by the foundation
that chose 139 of the 2,500 texts to be
published.

Washington Semester offers

By Francis Coryell
Staff Reporter

 

Last year, William F. Connelly,
Assistant Professor of Politics, took
eight W&L students to Capitol Hill for
the Washington Semester.

This internship, said Connelly, is
worth six credits and tried to give
students an inside look at the political
activities of our government. It
enables the students to combine the
theory they learn in the classroom
and practice it in the real world, Con-
nelly said.

Minor Rogers began to study
Japanese Buddhist tradition when he
and his wife were Christian mis-
sionaries in Japan. They spent two
years in Kyoto for language training
and two years in Kyushu, the
southernmost island of Japan. ‘‘I felt
that I needed to understand more
about the traditions and scriptures,”
said Rogers. Rogers spent six years
at Harvard graduate school studying
comparative religion and wrote his
dissertation about Rennyo. While her
husband was studying religion, Ann
Rogers, who is a_ professor of
Japanese at W&L, was studying
classic Japanese. For his disserta-
tion Rogers needed to translate Ren-
nyo’s letters ‘ ‘in order to understand
what he meant.”

The translation of the texts of the
Buddhist scripture is very important
since the true meaning of the
teaching is a ‘sensitive issue
because Shin Buddhists today debate
and argue about what the text said,”’
commented Rogers. Ordinary people
have heard the letters since their
childhood. This ‘‘shapes the religious
consciousness of Shin Buddhists,”
added Rogers.

The translations will be used as
material for courses in Buddhism.
They will be used in libraries all over
the world. ‘‘The material is not the
kind of material that people will buy
in paperback at bookstores,”’ said
Rogers. He can, however, envision
‘fa small copy of the letters with an
introduction and an annotation which
would be more easily accessible.”’
Rogers describes what he has been
doing ‘‘as a drop in the bucket” com-
pared to the amount of information in
the scriptures. ‘‘There is nothing to
definitely say that the canon is clos-
ed,”’ he is quick to add.

During a sabbatical from 1979-1980
Minor Rogers studied at the Shin
Buddhist University in Kyoto. That is
where the project of translating the
texts got started. Ann Rogers had a
chance to work with the collections of
texts while attending the University
of Virginia to obtain her Masters
Degree. This gave her the training
she needed to work with her husband
on the translations.

Any major could go with tne untiy
requirements being that the student
had to be above the freshman year
and must have completed one of the
following Politics courses: 101, 102
111, or 303.

Connelly started the Washington
Semester program himself when he
arrived at W&L

He worked on Capitol Hill as a
legislative assistant for Con-
gressman Dick Cheney and Senator
Richard Lugar Connelly was work-
ing in a program sponsored by the
American Political Science Associa-
tion

Connelly said he

tried to ‘Place

Minor Rogers made the first rough
translation. After that Ann used her
knowledge of classic Japanese to
make a thorough translation. He did
more with “continually checking for
historical accuracy’’ while she
translated. She encountered a few
problems with translation. One in
particular occurred when she was
describing a concept which is
translated in Japanese as ‘‘mind-
faith’. There is no one English term
which will encompass this broad con-
cept effectively. The word ‘‘faith”
was chosen as the best translation,

even though some Shin Buddhists
argue that “‘faith’’ implies a separa-
tion between God and man. In the
Buddhist religion there is no separa-
tion between the two.

‘*The heart of the text is something
anyone can understand. It is the idea
of trusting. The theological concepts
are certainly fairly complex. They
came out of centuries of Indian and
Chinese thought,”’ said Ann Rogers.
However, she does admit that ‘‘the
text is open to a certain amount of in-
terpretation.”

This is the firstthing that they have
worked on jointly for publication. ‘‘I
worked with him all along, but not
quite like this before,’’ says Rogers,
“it's possible that we will do
something else together.”’

“Tt’s been quite an adventure doing
it. ’ts an amazing experience trying
to understand what a person in the
fifteenth century was thinking and
going through,’’ she adds.

Minor Rogers is also working on
another book about Rennyo which
will include some of the translation in

its introddction. In his book,
however, he will be able to add notes
to help explain the text. The transla-

tion which they just finished will be
“published sort of the way the Bible
is published—just the text with a five
page introduction,” he said. “In a
way I have been working on a book on
Rennyo for a long time, but I thought

that I couldn’t write until I
thoroughly understood what he had
said,’ said Rogers adding that his
wife’s translation has helped that a
great deal.

New Dean of Freshmen takes office

 

o

 

 

Lauren Batte/The Ring-tum Phi

Dean of Freshmen, Kenneth Ruscio.

students an inside look at politics of the government

students in an office «..
serious responsibilities.”’
selected offices carefully.

~ they get
He said he

According to Connelly the students
responsibilities were many. They
worked full time doing such tasks as
legislative research, running er-
rands, answering mail, legal
research and administrative detail.
In addition to their office respon-
sibilities, the students met every
Wednesday for class which often had
outside speakers.

Grading for the semester, said
Connelly was based on a term paper,
class activity, and by their work in
the office. Connelly said students

were also expected to keep a daily
journal.

A typical week for the students was
to work four days a week, said Con

nelly. Also, the student were ex
pected to meet with Connelly,
sometimes individually, sometimes
in a group It was not all work
though, said Connelly The program
included paid admission to certain

cultural events
According to Connelly, the ex
penses for the Washington Semester

are usually more than here in Lex
ington. Students, said Connelly, must
arrange for their living ar
rangements. The average cost for

rent being $900 when sharing with

Wc ie

 

By Greg Golden
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee welcomes a
new Dean of Freshman this year as
Ken Ruscio, a W&L_ alumnus,
assumes his position in the Student
Affairs office.

A member of the class of 1976 and a
former admissions officer, the new
dean is no stranger to the myriad of
pressures and dilemmas that all
freshman inevitably face. Working
closely with the dorm counselors,
Ruscio hopes to convey to the
freshmen not only the policies, but
the traditions and attitudes of W&L.

While a student at W&L Ruscio was
a dorm counselor and also a member
of the prestigious national leadership
society, Omicron Delta Kappa. After
graduating in 1976, Ruscio spent two
years working in the University’s Ad-
missions office and has now returned
to Washington and Lee to assume his
position as Dean of Freshman.

Dean Ruscio has several ambitious
goals for the 1987-88 school year. The
development of the Gaines residence
hall as an upperclass dormitory and
campus focal point is high on
Ruscio’s list of priorities. Moreover,
the new Dean hopes to inspire a
stronger feeling of class unity among
the freshman.

Fragmentation of the freshman
class occurs very early,’ stated

roommates. The university may be
able to help students with financial
aid

Jenny Bray and Danatha Hoffman
were two of the students who went
last spring. The benefits at Connel-
ly’s past experience were evident
here. Bray worked for Dick Cheney
while Hoffman worked for Richard
Lugar. Bray said her office was in-
volved with the Iran-Contra hearings
and she was kept busy. She said ‘‘I
learned alot. It was my most deman-
ding term, with forty hour work
weeks plus three hour classes.’’ With
all the work, she was still very en-
thusiastic about the program. Bray
said she was most impressed with

Ruscio. ‘‘Right from the beginning
the class is divided not only by frater-
nities, but by other various social
groups as well.’’

Ruscio hopes that through more
class-oriented activities, such as the
“Dorm Football League,’ this
fragmentation of the class can be
avoided and the freshmen will feel a
stronger sense of class unity.

While a student at W&L, Ruscio
was an advocate of coeducation.

“Any great institution, like
Washington and Lee, is always trying
to be better. The core things that are
truly important aspects of Wash-
ington and Lee, the honor system, the
close relationship between students
and the faculty, the friendliness
around campus, these things have
not changed.”’

Ruscio went on to say, ‘‘This was a
great place when I left, today it is
even better.”

Ruscio will continue to teach
political science at W&L.

Ruscio wished to express one final
point to the class of 1991.

“There are plenty of opportunities
outside of the classroom, take advan-
tage of them. However, on the in-
dividual level, one must be sure not
to spread oneself too thin. Be selec-
tive, make decisions and focus your
efforts.’ By doing this, said Ruscio,
one will make the most of the multi-
tude of activities and opportunities
bye await them at Washington and

“The way that my office did the
amount and scope [of work] that it
did.’’ Hoffman said her office was
more involved with foreign affairs.
She said she enjoyed the ‘Total
change in pace, out in the real world
working.”’ According to Hoffman,
another advantage of this program is
the opportunity to make contacts.
Said Hoffman “Everybody I met
knew somebody, and so it would be a
lot easier to get started.’’ Then she
gave one of Connelly’s quotes,
“Knowledge is power in that city.”

Hoffman was also happy with the
program. She said she ‘‘really en
_Jjoyed it, would do it all over again.’

Ro Ate Nee,

 

>
The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987, Page 5

 

 

Trident plans activities

 

By Jessica Reynds

+ Staff Reporter

 

Community stvice is a top priori-
ty for Tridei, an organization

* created to mej the many needs of

women and te W&L community,
said Alston Peker, president of the

« Organization.

, underprivilegd

“We discus¢d doing something for
families in Lex-
ington durin) Thanksgiving,’ said
Parker.

.

. The groupis uncertain about the
direction o the project, but has
« started to wirk on the details.

a

Trident hs also planned a cocktail
party for pirents of all W&L students
«during Paent’s Weekend, October

30-Nov. 1. The cocktail party will be
held after the football game, but the
location is still andecided.

The calendar is beinning to fill up.
In the upcoming week, Trident hopes
to sponsor a fund-raiser — guessing
the number of beans in a jar

“It’s a start,’’ said Cathérine
Baillo, secretary for Trident. She
said the fund-raiser is not a big
money-maker, but it will bring in
some cash flow.

Tuesday, October 13, freshman
representatives will be elected. Tri-
dent encourages all freshman women
to participate.

The prize will be dinner for two at
The Palm’s.

A pizza party will be held in the
GHQ after elections and ‘‘You’ve got

Art exhibited at SBC

 

*

From Staif Reports

 

¥

, Two exhibits of art on loan from the
Virginia Museum will open at Sweet
“Briar College on August 29. On view
in Babcock Fine Arts Center through
October 18, ‘‘Mexico by Charlot’ is
rcomprised of 30 colorful lithographs
wevealing the artist’s interest in
Mayan sculpture. A second exhibit
adisplayed in Benedict Hall through
November 8, ‘‘Photographs by Bob
“Jones,” documents people and life-
»styles along the James River.

*<The French artist Jean Charlot
fhoved in the 1920s from France to
“Mexico, where he joined an archae-
«@ogical expedition investigating art
éf the Yucatan Peninsula. His study
* é{ Mayan stone carvings is reflected

in the angularity of the figures
depicted in the lithographs on view at
Sweet Briar.

Past president of the Virginia
News Photography Association, Bob
Jones has received numerous awards
in professional competitions. Three
times named ‘‘Virginia News Photo-
grapher of the Year,” Jones has been
published in both Time and Newsweek.
For the Sweet Briar exhibit, Jones
compiled 26 works in a photographic
essay about a local region and its
culture.

Art exhibits at Sweet Briar College
are open to the public free of charge
Tuesday-Sunday, noon-5 p.m. For
further information, contact Carma
Fauntleroy, Director of Galleries,
(804) 381-6248.

the best who needs the rest’’ T-shirts
will be sold during the party also. The

 

T-shirts have the “no road cheese
allowed” sign on the back. There has
been a high demand for the Road
Cheese T-shirts as well as_ the
‘Women at W&L—quality doesn’t
have to travel’ T-shirt, but the date
for the quality shirts will be sold is
still pending, said Parker.

The last call to order pictures from
Confetti’s is Monday during office
hours—4-6 p.m.

Anyone interested in attending
meetings Monday at7 p.m., the agen-
da of topics to be discussed is as
follows: Freshman Elections
Social Activities - Parents Weekend
Community Service
Intramurals
Fund-raisers

Prowler

_) Continued from Page 1

entered a home, he can be arrested
for statutory burglary according to
police. Because this charge is a
felony, the arrested party could
serve time in the state penitentiary if
convicted.

Since Friday, Sept. 18, the prowler
has reportedly entered two homes
and to have slashed some screens on
the windows of a house. There is no
evidence indicating that he was out
last weekend.

The best way to avoid an encounter
with this prowler is to keep doors and
windows locked and shades drawn,
especially at night, said police. The
prowler has not been known to lurk
around the dorms or apartments, but
all Lexington residents should take
precautions agains being victimized.

The prowler has apparently never
been violent, but he might enter
unlocked homes.

Lexington Blue Laws repealed

 

By McLaurin Hill
Staff Reporter

 

* Though it might not matter much

to the average W&L student, a major
“change shook the Lexington and
+ Rockbridge business world,this sum-
mer.

The Blue Laws were repealed.
+ That means stores of all kinds can
stay open for business on Sunday
now. In the past, only stores selling
» specific items such as drugs could
sell on Sunday.

The laws were generally not en-

.

*.
.
‘
'

Football

 

» Continued from Page 6

*end of the Italian trip and took his
, Wife to Interlaken, Switzerland and
went glacier skiing.
«
He said that he was very impressed
“by the hospitality of the European

+ people.

+ In one instance, he was taking a
; train out of Savona when the Italian
train workers went on strike. One of

+

be

 

> *

forced until the manager of the local
Leggett’s department store asked
area police to begin enforcement last
October. Leggett’s has a national
policy of not opening on Sunday.
Other local businesses, which had
been operating unharassed on Sun-
day, were outraged ,and formed an
opposition group to get the laws
repealed. bi
Several different interests opposed
the blue laws, including Maxway,
whose manager said Sunday was the
day with the most customers per
hour for his store, and downtown
speciality shops like Pappagallo and

 

the Italian football coaches drove
Coach McHenry and his wife to the
next station a few hours away.

Overall, Coach McHenry said the
trip was a great success for both the
Americans and the Italians as the
Italian National team won the Euro-
pean championships.

Although they were successful
against their fellow Europeans,
Coach McHenry said, “they were
still disappointed at their loss to the
Americans.”’

Pink ’n Blue, which rely heavily on
the weekend tourist trade.

A loca! committee for the Repeal of
the Blue Laws was formed, petitions
were circulated on both sides, and

ads in local papers argued both sides
of the issue.

Brian Shaw, the spokesman for the
committee, said about $15,000 was
spent by both sides and the local
governments in resolving the issue.

The issue was finally settled when
a special election was held June 2.
The Blue Laws were overturned by
significant margins in both the city
and the county. ;

Frats

() Continued from Page 1

make it into a sorority,” said Thorn-
ton.

Thornton and Bonn said _ that
although ZBT played by the rules
during Rush, other houses didn’t.

Thornton, however, remains op-
timistic about the future.

“We're going to get our numbers
—five to six by the end of the year “

“This is a trying time for us,” said
Bonn, ‘but we’ll get through it. We’re
still a strong brotherhood.”

 

 

 

4
oe.

Athens, GA. Band to open

ay

Dream So Real will open the 1987 Homecoming Concert.

og Ee RRR Shere AS:

 

 

Jay Gorlowski gives blood during last year’s blood drive.

Red Cross hosts blood drive

 

By Ian Thompson
Staff Reporter

 

W&L is hosting its annual blood
drive on October 7th in Doremus
Gym.

Between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m.
students and members of the Lex-
ington community are invited to give
blood. ‘“‘It should be easier for
students to fit blood donating into
their schedules in the afternoon.”
says Libby Atthowe of the Women’s
Auxiliary.

Free sandwiches and sodas will be
provided by the Newcomer’s Club
and the Women’s Auxilary of the Red
Cross, said Atthowe. A Red Cross
nursing unit and Bloodmobile from
Roanoke will provide the equipment
and service for the blood taking,
whereas the local Women’s Red
Cross Auxilary will register and get
brief medical backgrounds from the
donors.

The drive, reached its goal of 150
pints of blood for the first time last

year said event organizer Chris Mar-
tin.

 

File Photo

Students will help the Red Cross
volunteers set up equipment annd the
IFC will give $100 to the fraternity
that donates the most blood. Second
and third prizes of $50 and $25 respec-
tively will be rewarded. According to
Martin, the drives goal for this year
is set again at 150 pints.

“We are hoping for an even
stronger drive this year,” Martin
said. ‘‘The blood type 0 Is in high de-
mand in our area so people of this
blood type are strongly urged to par-
ticipate.”’

Professor polaroids pupils

 

By Chris Munsey
Assignment Editor

 

Assistant Professor Richard
Bidlack has brought modern
technology to the old problem of lear-
ning the names of his 74 students.

A Polaroid camera

Minutes into the start of Bidlack’s
Russian history course, he asked
seven students to line up against the
wall of the classroom in Newcomb
Hall.

Bidlack then took a snapshot of the
students with an instant camera, and
had them write down their names on
the print.

“Tf I didn’t take pictures, I pro-
bably wouldn’t learn everybody’s
names,”’ said Bidlack, who joined the
W&L History Department this fall.

Instead of the 45 students an-
ticipated by the history department,
Bidlack said his Growth of Imperial
Russia course contains 62 students in

 

two sections.

In addition to those students,
Bidlack teaches a 12-student Euro-
pean Civilization course.

“It’s helpful for me in getting to
know the students, since I’m new
here and don’t know any students to
begin with,” Bidlack said.

Student’s reaction to his idea sur-
prised Bidlack.

“They were good sports about it,
but they did seem to be self-
conscious,” he said.

Bidlack joked about the idea of
calling students forward from a roll,
lining them up against a wall and
shooting pictures of them.

‘Maybe for a Russian historian it
just comes naturally,” he said.

John Packett, a senior from Salem,
Va. said he understood why Bidlack
decided to take the pictures.

‘“‘When you start getting 30 people
in a class, I can see how it gets hard
to remember everybody’s name.”

Packett said the class seemed sur-

 

ii

 

Collect all four NOID
COLLECTABLES from
Domino's Pizza! Only 65¢
each, tax included, with
any pizza purchase from
participating Domino's
Pizza stores. Only

one NOID COLLECTABLE
per order. A different figure
will be featured each week
through October 18, 1987
Call now for a fresh,
delicious pizza and your
NOID COLLECTABLE!

Each NOID COLLECTABLE is approxi
mately 3° tall Not recommended for
hildren under the age of 3

Call us!
463-7375

23 S. Jefferson St
Hours:

Open daily at 49m
Oven unt! am S

n Fri. & Sat

n Thurs

Open until dal

 

prised when Bidlack called the first
group forward.

“A lot of people laughed at first,
and a lot of people didn’t want to get
up,’’ Packett said.

Christie Davis, a junior from
Tallahassee, Fla. was in the first
group called.

“The first thing I thought was that
he was going to make us give a criti-
que of the reading,” Davis said.

“Somebody asked if we had to turn
sideways if we were under 21,” Davis
said.

Davis said she didn’t mind the five
minutes it took to take the pictures.

“It’s better than having some pro-
fessor who never learns your name,”’
she said.

Jim Barker, a junior from
Jackson, Tenn. also didn’t mind the
idea of taking pictures of the class.

‘‘T thought it was pretty humorous,
and it took up ten minutes of class
time, so it didn’t bother me,”’ Barker
said,

 

GETaNOID
COLLECTABLE’

(COLLECT ALL FOUR)

   

 

Limited time offer
While supplies fast

Our drivers carry less than $20.00
Limited delivery area
©1987 Domino's Pizza, Inc

DOMINO’S

PIZZA

DELIVERS
FREE.

MA

 

Vinton Productions

 

 
«Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987

®-twenty-four
players.

 

 

Coach takes football abroad

*
hy Pat Heffernan
staff Reporter

 

 

Over this past summer, W&L
athletic director William McHenry
pent ten days in Italy teaching the
italian youth more about the game of
football while coaching an American
eam to victory over the Italian na-
ional team

\s part of a program with Sports
ktxchange USA and American Foot-
ball International, McHenry and four
W&L football players traveled with a
team of American coaches from all
lifferent levels of football and
Division HI football

tne trip included touring different

Italian cities and playing two games

against the Italians while they

*-~prepared for the European cham-

>>>

pionships.

The trip began in New York City on
July 16 with a meeting of all the
coaches and players.

At three o'clock the next afternoon,
the team was going through its first
practice under head coach Rocky

« Carzo in Savona, Italy.

After four practices in Italy and no
full contact until game time, the
American team met the top 75 Italian
players in a game in front of

' 2,500-3,000 Italian football fans.

The Americans won the game 18-7

. with W&L player Randy Brown scor-
ing two touchdowns. Bobby Wilson,

also from W&L, missed the first

‘ game due to sickness but started with

his W&L teammates Brown, John

’ Packett, and Chris Jerussi in the se-

cond game in San Benadito.
The American team also won the
second game by the score of 14-3.
McHenry said the American

« team’s offense had to concentrate

soley on passing as the Italian team
was too big to try to run against. He
criticized the Italian's speed but call-
ed their defensive linemen ‘“gigan-
lic
Between games the team split its
time between touring the cities of
Florence, Piza, Venice, and Monte
«Carlo, enjoying the beaches, and
practicing.
A typical day was either practice

- first then tour, or tour then practice

Coach McHenry siad every day in-
cluded ‘pasta at every meal”.
The coaches, including Sam

_ Ratigliano, Lou Vircillo, and Howe
‘Leffler, also gave clinics to lower
“evel Italian teams. Many of the

‘<.linies were spent teaching the fun-
‘tiamentals of stance and form.

* Most of the communication was

-vione through sign language and oc-

-yasional use of an interpreter.
The Italian professional teams

‘McHenry reported, are more club

VMI planetarium offers ‘The Radio Universe’

a
from Staff Reports

 

 

In the past quarter of a century,
‘hdio telescopes have dramatically
creased knowledge and understan-
fing of the universe, and at Virginia
Wlilitary Institute this fall, seven
Slanetarium programs will be
fresented on the exciting aspects of
‘adio astronomy.

‘The fall program, entitled “The
fadio Universe,” will be presented
it 7:30 p.m. on the evenings of Sept.
‘1. Oct. 6 and 19, Nov. 2 and 16, and
Jec. 1 and 7. All of the programs are

teams that are considered profes
sional

The players are paid low salaries
and each team may have only four
American players. Of the 127 teams
in leagues around the country, many
have American coaches

From these teams the top 125
Italian players are selected for the
national team. This is then cut to 46
for the European championships.

McHenry said that all of the
American players and coaches paid
their own way for the trip. For the

piayers he estimated the cost to be

about $1,600 plus personal expenses.
For McHenry it was the first time

in Europe. He continued at the

See Football, Page5

Military Science gives awards

 

From Staff Reports

 

The Washington and Lee Universi
ty Department of Military Science
held an awards ceremony Tuesday,
Sept. 22, on the Lee Chapel lawn on
the front of the W&L campus

Honored at the ceremony were the
recipients of Army R.0.T.C. Scholar-
ships and recipients of Advanced
Camp Awards to seniors who were
named outstanding cadets at Ft
Bragg advanced camp last summer.

Scholarship recipients were: Erik
K. Jones, a freshman from Portland,
Ore.; Scott Bahrke, a sophomore
from Livingston, N.J.; Kevin Nash, a
sophomore from Cordova, Tenn.;
Robert Burch, a junior from Luther-
ville, Md.; Anthony DeMartino, a
junior from Brooklyn, N.Y.; James
M. Johnson, a junior from Atlanta,
Ga.; Frampton Harper, a junior
from Beaufort, S.C.; and Robert
Haley, a junior from Atlanta, Ga.

The Advanced Camp Awards were
the Land Navigation Award, award-
ed to Robert Williamson of Davidson,
N.C.; Honor Platoon Awards, which
were awarded to Christopher
Beckert of Madison, Conn.; Jeffrey
Harwood of El Toro, Calif., and
Robert Williamson; and the RECON-
DO Awards, which were awarded to
John Veatch of Alexandria, Va.,
Christopher Beckert of Madison,
Conn., Jeffrey Harwood, Craig
Garneau of Glastonbury, Conn., and
Robert Williamson.

A Certificate of Achievement was
awarded to Brian D. Shaw, director
of the Washington and Lee News Of-
fice, for being the university's in-
stitutional representative at the Ad-
vanced Camp at Ft. Bragg last sum-
mer.

free and open to the public, with
presentation at a level appropriate
for both adults and youngsters. The
shows start promptly, and
latecomers will not be admitted
because the lights are turned off for
the programs.

The new planetarium presentation
will show and explain the operation
of some of the world’s largest radio
telescopes and will also include a
series of radio images of galaxies
and nebulae. In addition, the pro-
grams will provide an orientation
around the fall sky, including the
famous Andromeda galaxy, which is
well placed during the fall months for

Honors

Sgt. Major Nelson L. Twyman pins a Recondo badge on Craig
Garneau, a Washington and Lee University senior from
Glastonbury, Conn., during the W&L ROTC awards ceremony

last week.

observing with the telecope. Slides
for the fall program have been made
available by the Astronomical Socie-
ty of the Pacific and the National
Radio Astronomy Observatory.

If the sky is clear on nights of
scheduled planetarium programs,
the VMI observatory will also be
open to the public following the
planetarium presentation, with op-
portunities for all to observe the
planets and other celestial objects. In
addition to the nearby Andromeda
galaxy, Jupiter will be well position-
ed for observing, along with the Ring
Nebula in Lyra.

Visitors to the VMI planetarium,

 

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&i.

which is located on the lower floor of
Preston Library, are asked to use the
outside entry between the library and
Mallory Hall. Parking is available
beside the parade ground. The obser-
vatory is located on the north side of
the VMI post, up the hill from Pat-
chin Field and the tennis courts.

The VMI planetarium and obser-
vatory are operated by the depart-
ment of physics and astronomy, and
special programs for scouts, school
and church groups, and other
organizations are available during
the day or evening by appointment
with Col. David L. DuPuy, professor
of astronomy, at telephone 463-6225.

3ritish author speaks on Russian spy ring

 

y Stacy Morrison
aff Reporter

British author Andrew Boyles
ke Monday night in Northen
iditorium about his book “The
yurth Man.”

I'he topic of this book is a Russian

ring, made up of four men, that
yvaded deep the upper ranks of the
itish Empire in the late 20s and

sy far the most important aspect
this book is that it was instrumen-
in revealing Anthony Blount’s
ntity as a spy, a fact which had re-
iined undisclosed until this book
published
3lount was “‘the fourth man’”’ to
ich the title refers. Boyle used the
ic name ‘‘Maurice” when he was
erring to Blount. The other three
mbers of this particular spy ring
» Guy Burgess, Don MacLean
| Kim Philby
oder British law, Boyle could not
tify Blount in the book without
s sued for libel charges. British
s very strict as to what may be
ited
e situation concerning Blount
even more volatile because
int was serving as the Queen’s
advisor, and had been knighted

for his services to the British Em-
pire.

Boyle did most of his investigations
and research for his book in the
United States because of the lack of
freedom of information in England
There is no Freedom of Information
Act in England as there is here, so
Boyle was not allowed to review any
English government records. Boyle
said that the CIA and FBI were the
agencies with which he had worked
on this particular story.

Blount was ‘‘exceptionally brillant
and cunning,’’ Boyle said. Blount was
brought up speaking fluent French,
as well as English, and became ‘‘en-
thralled with French galleries and
art’’ at an early age. This would
prove important to Blount later as he
would eventually become the
Queen’s art advisor and an accepted
member of the British Empire

Lord Victor Rothchild, whom
Boyle termed ‘‘accident-prone,’
made the fatal error of bringing
Blount “right into the heart of the
secret establishment,” the in-
telligence agency known as MI-5
Boyle here commented again on the
intelligence and cleaverness of
Blount, who was already a spy at this
point

This spy ring leaked much top
secret information to the USSR in the

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

R. Sheridan

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

years that they operated. The Rus-
sians got plans for atomie weapons
from Blount.

MacLean and Burgess revealed
United States plans dealing with
South Korea to the Soviets. At the
time of that leak, Burgess was a first
secretary to the British Embassy in
Washington, D.C.

Boyle called Burgess and Blount
“completely devoid of any sense of
propriety,’ pointing out than they
had caused the deaths of many peo
ple in France, Germany and Poland.

Boyle added that they were ‘‘work-
ing together to cause the ruination of
the British Empire.’’ Don MacLean
became very important to the com-
munist cause, and Philby was
decorated by the Soviet government
for his services to their cause

Margaret Thatcher was forced to
make a statement about Blount due
to Boyle’s book. After the book was
published, ‘Private Eye’’ magazine

   

Rt. 11 North

Merle Norman Cosmetics

M-F 10-7 p.m., Sat. 10-5 p.m.
Solar Nails/Manicures
‘Free Visit To Tanning Bed With This Ad.”’
Wolff System Tanning Beds-Student Rates
5 visits $25.00
10 visits $39.00
20 visits $79.00

named Blount and put everything in-
to the open.

The BBE still holds confidential
records on Burgess which cannot be
opened for 100 years. Boyle cited this
as another example of the lack of
freedom of information in England,
for he is interested to know what
those records hold.

In closing, Boyle expressed ‘‘a
great gratitude to the American
system” for all the work that is
allowed him to accomplish.

Boyle attended Blairs College in
Scotland, and studied philosophy in
Paris. After that he served in
military intelligence in the Far East.
He has been with the BBC since 1947
and currently resides in London.

In 1974, Boyle received the Whit-
bread prize for the most outstanding
biography in Britain

463-1782

  
       
       
   

 

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Truman $$

Washington and Lee sopho-
mores interested in a career .n
government service at the
federal, state, or local levels are
invited to apply for a 1988 Harry S.
Truman Scholarship.

Established by Congress in 1975,
the Harry S, Truman Scholarship
Foundation operates a continuing
educational scholarship program
designed to provide opportunities
for outstanding U.S. students with
potential leadership ability to
prepare for careers in govern-
ment service.

Washington and Lee can nom-
inate three students for the 1988
competition. The scholarship
award covers eligible expenses up
to $7,000 per year for the junior
year, the senior year, and two
years of graduate study.

To be eligible, a student must be
a full-time sophomore in a field of
study that will permit admission
to a graduate program leading to
a career in public service, have at
least a B average, stand in the up-
per fourth of the class, and be a
US. citizen.

Interested students should see
Dean Lewis G. John, Truman
Scholarship Faculty Represen-
tative (Payne Hall 6) or Dean H.
Thomas Williams, Associate Dean
of the College (Washington Hall
24), no later than October 9, 1987.

Company $$

Institutional Shareholder Ser-
vices is sponsoring “The Cor-
porate Challenge,’ a $10,000 essay
competition. Contestants are to
prepare an answer of up to 5,000
words in a case study describing a
fictional company’s responses to
the challenges it faces throughout

the 20th century.
Contestants must be
undergraduate or graduate

students at accredited U-S.
schools. Eligible contestants may
enter individually or in groups.
Copies of the case study will be
available after September 1,
directly from . Institutional
Shareholder Services, Inc. 3050 K
Street, N.W., Suite 300,
Washington, D.C. 20007. Entries
must be received by November 1,
1987.

Fiction $$

All fiction writers are invited to
enter the Raymond Carver Short
Story Contest, sponsored by the
Humboldt State University
English Department. The winner
will receive $500 and publication
in HSU’s literary journal Toyon.
The second prize winner will
receive $250.

Submissions must not exceed 25
pages, be typed and double-
spaced, will all manuscript pages
identified by title of work.
Author’s name should appear only
on title page. Any submission
must not be previously published
or accepted for publication. Two
copies of manuscript should be
sent, with a $5 entry fee. No en-
tries will be returned. Submission
deadline is November 2.

For guidelines or other informa-
tion regarding the contest, write
to: 1988 Raymond Carver Short
Story Contest, Department of
English, Humboldt State Univer-
sity, Arcata, CA 95521, (707)
826-3758.

Minority $$

The National Research Council
will administer the Ford Founda-
tion Doctoral Fellowships for
Minorities Program which will of-
fer approximately 40 three-year
predoctoral fellowships and 10
one-year dissertation fellowships
to American Indians, Alaskan
Natives (Eskimo or Aleut), Black
Americans, Mexican Ameri-
cans/Chicanos, Native Pacific

Each predoctoral fellowship
will include an annual stiped of of
$10,350 to the Fellow, and an an-
nual institutional grant of $6,000 to
the fellowship institution in lieu of
tuition and fees. Dissertation
Fellows will receive a stipend of
$18.000 for the twelve-magfh
tenure with no institutional grant.

All inquiries concerning ap-
plication materials and program
administration should be address-
ed to: Ford Foundation Doctoral
Fellowships, The Fellowship Of-
fice, National Research Council,
2101 Constitution Avenue,
Washington D.C. 20418.

Federal $$

The National Research Council
annouces the 1988 Resident,
Cooperative, and Postdoctoral
Research Associateship Pro-
grams for research in the sciences
and engineering to be conducted
in behalf of 28 federal agencies or
research institutions. The pro-
gram provide Ph.D. scientists and
engineers of unusual promise and
ability with opportunities to per-
form research on problems large-
ly of their own choosing yet com-
patible with the research interests
of the supporting laboratory.

Awards are made for one or two
years; senior applicanis who have
held the doctorate at least five
years may request shorter tenure.
Annual stipends for recent
Ph.D.’s for the 1988 program year
will vary from $27,150 to $35,000,
depending upon the sponsoring
laboratory, and will be ap-

propriately higher for senior
Associates.
Information on_ specific

research opportunities and
federal laboratories, as well as
application materials, may be ob-
tained from the Associateship
Programs, Office of Scientific and
Engineering Personnel, GF1
Room 424-Di, National Research
Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20418,
(202) 334-2760.

Who R You?

Student ID cards taken during
fall registration may be picked up
in Room 104 of the University
Center between the hours of
8:30-12 and 1-4, M-F.

Is it yours?

A high school ring has been
turned into the security office in
Graham-Lee’s Quad. Identify it
between 4 p.m. and midnight Mon-
day thru Friday and it’s yours.

Women’s rules

Any women students interested
in forming policy and bylaws for
the Women’s Center should sign
up on a sheet placed on the
Women’s Center door. The group
encourages freshman to join!
Female faculty are also urged to
join.

W&L flicks

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
beginning of its tenth season.

The first presentation of the
year will be Lady Jane (Great Bri-
tain, 1986), directed by Trevor
Nunn. Showings will be at 8:00 PM
on Friday 2 October and Saturday
3 October in Classroom ‘“‘A’’ in
Lewis Hall. There is no charge for
admission. The film is in English.

Starting about 7:15 PM, before
each night's showing of Lady Jane,
the Film Society will present an
informal reception in the Lewis

 

 

 

 

Islanders (Polynesians or Hall lobby, outside the Moot Cour-
Micronesians), and Puerto troom. All friends of the Film
Ricans. Society are invited.

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

  

DEA NO Am 3145095
CaulOtel

 

© Citumos
17 S. MAIN STREET

tas ug te
FREE PERSCRIPTION DELIVERY
BILL SENT HOME
Wwe HONOR COLONNADE CARD

PHONE (703) 463-2323
pee ue Pe
Studies

 

Continued from Page 3

by each of the teachers from the dif-
ferent departments that W&L has of-
fered are on cognitive science,
speech acts, the philosophy of
language, and natural language pro-
cessing.

An honors course for University
scholars is currently being offered as
an introduction to cognitive science.

The program is so new that there
are not many students in the pro-
gram and no definite major has been
established, according to Elmes.

The two ways a student can ap-
praoch the program are to either set

SET MONE

up an independent major, or to major
in one of the departments and then
focus on cognition.

Who should participate in the
Cognitive Studies Program?

Professor Elmes advises that “any
student who is particularly in-
terested in how people think, learn,
and solve problems ... will probably
find the cognitive studies course of
particular value.”

As far as the job market is concern-
ed, schools such as Vassar that have
established Cognition programs have
no trouble finding palces for their
students in either graduate school or
in careers.

Cognitive Studies majors are very
popular within fields that utilize any
of the three individual majors. Jobs
range from running computers to hir-
ing personnel.

 

Rush

_) Continued from Page 1

better than we thought, (we have) no
complaints.”’

 

The police department of Lex-
ington also enjoyed the shorter Rush.

Although noise reports and alcohol
violations increased slightly, Lex-
ington Police Chief Bruce M. Beard
said, ‘‘All in all, it was a very good
Rush.”’

Rush also produced casualties. As
an example, one W&L student ac-
cidentally slit his wrist during Rush
activities and is not planning on

returning to W&L next week after a
three week absence.

With the 1987 Rush to build on,
ideas for the 1988 Rush are starting to
surface.

The majority of the fraternities
would prefer rush to come later in the
term.

Farley said, “there is a strong
movement within the IFC to delay
Rush until the winter term.”

Whether or not that is the result
will depend upon the actions of the’
IFC. When asked about potential
changes in Rush for next year, Atkins
stated, “It is highly unlikely the cur-
rent system will survive.”’

 

Kate

() Continued from Page 1

 

British and American English. “I
keep on wanting to tell people that
they look smart.”’ She also notices
the geographical effect on distances.
“One hour is considered a long way
in England.”’

Peppiatt says that, ‘‘...the drinking
age thing is strange. I’m not even
sure what the age is in England. At
Oxford anyone can drink in public.
Although, I wouldn’t say that people
here drink any less because of the
age.”

Another social difference, she
says, is that, ‘“‘we have quite a lot of
informal dinner parties in England,

where a small group of people will
get together and drink and talk.”’

Oxford does not have fraternities,
but it'is divided into thirty-five col-
leges, “each with a quite distinct
identity.”’ Students live in their own
college, and each college has its own
tutors. There are a lot of rivalries

and competitions between the col-
leges.

Peppiatt commented that, “The
people here are very friendly, more
so than in England.’’ She also notes
that, ‘‘The Honor System is
something which Oxford doesn’t
have. I couldn’t feel safe about leav-
ing my purse in the library there.”’

“l’m very much enjoying my
classes,’ Peppiatt said. This term
she is taking History of Philosophy,
Kant, Existenstialism, Christian
Ethics, and University Chorus.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987, Page 7

 

Summer

 

Continued from Page 4

tucky, said that in the end he was
able to adjust to the drastic slow
down because of his small town
background; ‘‘...someone from New
York probably couldn’t deal with it,”
he warned. He said that although at
times throughout the summer it was
a little slow, “‘after nine months of
study it was nice to have a break.”’
The students all agreed that one of
the most positive things about the
Lexington summer experience was
that it enabled one to get to know
Lexington better, and that in turn
enabled one to get to know
Washington and Lee better. As Shif-

a

 

en ee
Sigma Chi upperclassmen talk to freshmen during Rush open house.

 

Work

_) Continued from Page 3

 

Usually grades suffer,’
continued.

The money for the program is part
of the financial aid budget. 80 percent
comes from the Federal Govern-
ment, and 25 percent from W&L.

“We’re usually in a position where
we’re more than matching, we’re
putting in more than 20 percent,”’ ex-
plained DeCourcy.

The work-study program is signifi-
cant at W&L in that the students real-
ly make a contribution to the running
of the university.

“TI don’t think the students realize
how important they are in the univer-
sity offices, the library, places like
that ... If you took away one hundred
and fifty students, this place would
slow down to a crawl pretty quickly,”
explained DeCourcy. “By and large,
most of them have done a terrific
job.”’

' The majority of the comments

DeCourcy

made by work-study students were in
praise of the program.

Mike Tucci, a junior, worked his
freshman and sophomore year on the
program. He had no complaints
about receiving minimum wage.

“T think that’s great. I mean, it’s a
private institution. They don’t really
even need to pay minimum wage ...
And also, there’s so little taken out of
you, you’ve almost got straight $3.35
an hour.”

Dave Street, a sophomore, works

as an assistant in the Chemistry Lab.
“T really like work-study. The only
thing that is at all bothersome is the
fact that ... for example, I’ve got nine
hours without a break ... Since [my]
work-study isn’t at night, I don’t get a
break, just do it all in a big hunk of
time. But it’s good because I don’t
have to work at night. And the pro-
fessors are really nice...”’

Breton Chase, a junior, works in
the library and thinks very highly of
the program.

“T really like working there,’’ she
commented. ‘‘The people are really
wonderful and they go out of their

way to make things easier for you if
you have a problem with studying or
a personal problem, ... I guess the on-
ly disadvantage is that the wages are
kind of low but when you’re only ex-
pected to put in 2 hours. He said that
the work-study program pays much
too little.

He is making the amount of money
that he wants to, and he has found lit-
tle trouble keeping his grades up.

“T only work nights now. I have to
worry about it, not them. I just don’t
go out and party like I used to,”’ he
said.

Does he think the time commit-
ment is worth it? ‘‘Oh, yes, I get lots
of money!”’ he insisted.

Students that choose to participate
in the work-study program may
prefer to work shorter hours on cam-
pus, while those who opt to seek
employment in Lexington have found
a_ satisfactory trade-off between
longer hours and higher salary.

There is a choice between working
on or off campus, and so students find
which works best for him or her both
in terms of pay and of time.

 

Mike
© Continued from Page 1

whole paragraphs of various texts.”

There were lectures as well, but he
said that they, ‘...are not by and
large that compelling...they are
more cut and dry.” He said that,
“there was a lot of self-discipline in-
volved ... it (the work) is all up to
you.”

He also noted that, ‘‘people are
there just to learn, there is less
careerism than at W&L...Students
will read Sanskirt simply because
they are interested.”’

This genuine interest in learning
carried over into social life as well.
“There was a lot more freedom to be
intellectual,’’ Longshore said.
Students often get together at small
cocktail parties and discuss authors
whom they have studied.

“It was the first place where I was
able to discuss poetry over a beer ...(
it was) a change that I appreciated.”

Longshore commented that, ‘‘Brits
tend to look down on Americans in a
joshing sort of way.’’ He now speaks
with an interesting blend of an
English and a Southern accent. ‘‘My
Southern accent has been con-

A UNIQUE

Gift Shop

 

 

 

nittagg Asim ne

oe
Pf - / a
Cf ff << :
BD ( eer

THE NEW e THE SUBTLE *
THE DAZZLING

One Washington St., West, Lexington, Va.

taiminated a bit,’’ he admitted.

While at Oxford, his British accent
had become so strong that some
fellow students did not realize that he
was from the United States.

He says that he began to feel more
accepted at that point. “‘It’s like a
nightingale, who learns to sing the
other bird’s song ... It was a defen-
sive reaction to being regarded as an
outcast. After (my accent changed),
I began to fit right in.”’

As far as American literature is
concerned, ‘‘they only admit Hem-
ingway ... Henry James and T-.S.
Eliot they claim for themselves.”
Longshore said that there was one

course offered in American
literature, and that it seemed to be
downplayed.

As far as recreational activity,
Longshore was able to row all three
terms. He also played tennis on grass
courts during the spring.

He noted the violence of the foot-
ball (soccer) fans, explaining that he

would check the newspaper so he
could plan to stay indoors on the
weekends of home games.

Longshore admitted that, ‘British
cuisine is horrible.’’ However, he did
acquire a taste for Guinness Stout,
and he also learned that, ‘‘Americans
can’t make tea.’’ He frequented a

THE OLD®e

 

variety of restaurants, including
Jamaican and Indian eating place.

When asked if he were given the op-
portunity to return to W&L or Oxford,
Longshore would say ‘‘yes”’ to both.

“The two places exert an influence
over you that takes you over and
draws you back ... Oxford is the best
place in the world to study English.
I’ve profited immensely by it and it
makes this year at W&L a much
richer experience.”

R.L. Hess & Bro.
Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver,
China and Crystal
Wm. L. Hess, Jr.

Owner

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

(703) 463-2833

—

Mountain Bike Special

AMIDGESTONE

MB3

Suntour ACCU-Shift 18 Speed
31.0 Lbs. Was $4399
Now 38995

Lexington Bike Shop
130 S. Main St,
163-7969

Price good until Oct. 10
Quantity limited, mention ad

 

 

 

flett pointed out, ‘‘I went to places I
had never been, and I did things |
wouldn't get to do during the school

year. During the year it’s all frat par-

ties and the hill.”’

Pimblett pointed out that she met
many locals during her summer here
that she would not otherwise have
met. ‘It's a friendly town,” she add-
ed, ‘‘if you say ‘hi’ to someone, they'll
say ‘hi’ back.”’

She said that her summer here af-
forded her a fresh perspective on
Lexington. ‘I recognize Lexington as
a city independent of these two col-
leges. I know a lot more about Lex-
ington, and |’m more interested in
the history of Lexington.”’

And being a native of Newport

News, she noted that ‘‘spending the
summer in a small town was a
benefit, because I got to know a dif-
ferent environment.”

One thing is certain, summertime
in Lexington is definitely not for so-
meone who is looking for life on the
edge. It’s town—really small when
the students leave. Students fre-
quently describe the Lexington sum-
mer as ‘“‘very quiet” and ‘‘very laid
back.”’

That’s not necessarily so bad,
though, as Pimblett noted, ‘‘There
were not many people around, but I
enjoyed it and had been looking for-
ward to it.”” And all of the students
noted that even if it’s not an action-
packed lifestyle at least you're mov-
ed in before everyone else.

 

PARENTS

ALUMNI

 

IFC

Continued from Page I

 

as rush is over.

Phi Kap did not appeal the original
conviction so their Social Probation
began on Sept. 24.

Chi Psi was found guilty fo having
a keg at their Wednesday, Sept. 16
party. They were given two weeks of
Social Probation beginning on Sept
24.

Finally, Pi Kappa Phi was given
one week of social probation for a
noise violation.

Their punishment began on Sept. 24
and ended yesterday evening.

 

Stay informed of what's going on
at Washington & Lee!

Subscribe to
The Ring-tum Phi!

Washington and Lee’s Student Newspuper

Phi immediately. Enclosed is a $25 check or,
—E money order for a year’s worth of The Ring-tum §@
: Phi to be delivered to the following address:

%
aName:

Please start my subscription to The Ring-tum!

 

#
aAddress:

 

 

 

i
5
x
Hat

 
 

 

 

SPORTS

Finklestein, Sampson F.
lead Generals to win

 

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Sophomore quarterback Phil
Sampson completed 13 of 22 passes
for 166 yards, one touchdown, and no
interceptions Saturday to lead the

Washington and Lee football
Generals to their first win of the
season, a 17-10 victory over the Cen-

tre College Colonels

In only his second collegiate start,
Sampson locked up the win when he
ran out of the pocket for 12 yards on
third down and 9 with only 1:21 re-
maining in the game. The first down
allowed the Generals to run out the
clock and even their record at 1-1

“It's nowhere near the coaching,
as much as just [Sampson's] innate
ability,’ said head coach Gary
Fallon, who called the sophomore’s
performance Saturday ‘‘a great ef
fort.”

After a tough game against Emory
& Henry in W&L’s season opener,
senior tailback Chris Coffland roared
back with 21 carries for 79 yards and
the winning touchdown against Cen-
tre

The two teams punted back and

 

By Hunter Catlett
Staff Reporter

 

The best of the best. That’s a claim
the Washington and Lee water polo
team can make, at least in this state.

The Generals won the Virginia
State Championships last weekend,
raising their season mark to 10-1 and
moving up one notch to number 18 in
the latest NCAA Division I poll. By
defeating archrival Richmond for the
second time in two weeks, the
Generals ended the Spiders three-
year hold on the state title.

W&L opened the tournament witha

forth through much of the first
quarter, until Sampson hit wide
receiver Hugh Finklestein for a 31
yard touchdown pass with 3:24 left in
the opening period. Freshman kicker
Carter Quayle added the extra point
to give the Generals a 7-0 lead

A first-year law student, Finkle-
stein “is a very intense player,’’ ac-
cording to Fallon. “‘He sometimes
presses a little, but he certainly
comes through.” W&L’s leading
receiver in 1985, Finklestein pulled in
seven passes for 115 yards Saturday
to lead both teams. This season,
Finklestein has caught 11 passes for
181 yards and two touchdowns

Centre and W&L exchanged field
goals for the only scoring in the sec-
ond quarter. Colonels’ freshman
Wade Farmer hit from 25 yards out
just two minutes into the period, but
W&L’s Quayle answered back with a
31-yarder to close out the first half
and give the Generals a 10-3 lead.

After a scoreless third quarter, the
Colonels tied the game with 11:24 left
in the fourth quarter on a two-yard
run by their leading ball-carrier,
junior Greg Lawson, who carried the
ball 26 times for 97 yards on the after-
noon.

very convincing 17-7 victory over
Lynchburg. Junior David Dietz
scored four goals, and junior Mat-
thew Brady scored three, as the
Generals ran out to an 11-3 halftime
lead and never looked back.

The second game, against
Hampden-Sydney, gave Generals
fans a look into the future. W&L
started all its freshmen, and they
played the entire game on their way
to an 11-7 win.

The semifinals saw the Generals
going up against Mary Washington
College. Juniors David Reavy and
Moose Herring scored two goals each
during the first period as W&L

 

The Generals returned the ensuing
kickoff to the 35-yard line, and Samp-
son went to work, leading W&L on a
six-play drive that ended when Cof-
fland scored from two yards out.
Quayle’s kick provided the Generals
the seven-point margin of victory in
their first win of the season.

 

Macon is next
for the Generals

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Led by senior runningback
Remon Smith, the Randolph-
Macon Yellow Jackets will be go-
ing for their first win of the 1987
football season this weekend
against Washington and Lee, but
Generals head coach Gary Fallon
says the Jackets “aren't a poor
football team by any means.”

“They are 0-3, but they've
played three tough opponents,”
said Fallon. “I know they are
much better than their record in-

See Macon, Page 9

 

 

 

jumped to a 7-0 lead. Senior Simon
Perez and junior Stuart Sheldon add-
ed two goals apiece, and the Generals
cruised the rest of the way to an easy
15-7 conquest. The win set up a
rematch with the defending cham-
pions and hosts, the Richmond
Spiders.

Dietz scored two goals in just over
a minute as W&L sprinted out to a 2-0
lead. The Spiders came back to tie it
two-all, and, behind senior Bo
Michelson’s three first-period goals,
the Spiders led 5-3 after one period of
play.

Commenting on the first period,

Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Seniors Chuck Lyle (3) and John Coll aim for the goal against Eastern Men-

nonite.

 

 

fi A's .

 
   
    
  
  
    

and Christmas fares,

see Herring Travel now.

463-2197

BEAR-LEE EXERCISE

College Town Shopping Center
Lexington, Virginia

isometric Toning
Losing inches & toning muscles

has never been easier.
30 minutes FREE on toning tables.

Call for appointment!
Bring coupon to take advantage
of this special

HERRING TRAVEL
SERVICES, INC.

For Special Thanksgiving

 

463-EASY

 

    

41 S. Main St,

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987

 

Hugh Finklestein skys for a touchdown catch against Centre.

Water polo is ‘best team in Virginia’ after state tournament

junior co-captain Reavy said, ‘““We
were concentrating, but we weren't
playing well. We were making little
mistakes that came back to hurt us.”’

The second period was a low scor-
ing affair. The teams traded goals to
start the period, and the score re-
mained 6-4 Richmond until near the
end of the half. In the last 1:50, the
Generals exploded for three goals to
take a 7-6 lead at halftime.

Richmond came out storming in
the third period, with Michelson scor-
ing two goals in the first 45 seconds to
give Richmond an 8-7 lead. The game
swung back and forth, and the score

was tied at 9-9 near the end of the
period when the Generals ripped the
net twice to take an 11-9 lead into the
final period of play.

But the Spiders weren't dead yet.
Michelson scored the seventh of his
game-high eight goals 14 seconds into
the period to pull U of R to within one,
11-10. However, three goals in two
minutes — two by Reavy — put the
Generals in command 14-10. They
went on to an 18-11 win, led by Dietz’s
team-high seven goals and Reavy’s
four goals in the fourth period.

Discussing the up-and-down nature
of the game, co-captain Dietz said,

 

Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi ”

“That’s a bad pattern we've been
developing recently. We jumped
ahead of Army and then let them
come back to tie it before we went on
to win. The same thing happened
against Bucknell too. We got ahead of
them early and they came back to
beat us.”’

The Generals wil] have to iron out
all of their little mistakes this
weekend when they host the first
round of the Southern League Cham-
pionships. W&L will meet Richmond
at 1:15 Saturday. The Generals
should meet top-seeded Arkansas in
the final.

Soccer bounces back with 2 wins

 

By Gary McCullough
Staff Reporter

 

After losing three straight games
to start off the 1987 regular season,
the Washington and Lee men’s soc-
cer team entered into its Old Domin-

.ion Athletic Conference schedule

with back-to-back wins over Mary-
ville and Eastern Mennonite. _

Last Saturday the team traveled to
Maryville College and returned home
with a 2-1 victory to turn the tables on
their disappointing season's start.
The Generals had one goal from
junior Johnny Sarber, and
sophomore Patrick Brown took a
pass from senior John Coll to put the
second one on the board. Sophomore

Women lose one game; tie other »

 

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

 

If any opponent shows condescen-
sion towards the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team, it can be
assured of a powerful retaliation.
This is a team that has already tied
one rival, and has the added con-
fidence of giving the No. 2 team in the
conference a struggle.

Last Saturday, the Generals
played Sweet Briar and emerged
from their first game with a well-
earned tie. The score was 2-2, with
sophomore Catherine Baillio scoring
both goals for W&L. Through yester-
day, Baillio was the leading scorer in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, a fact which in itself adds

WELCOME FRESHMEN

We offer a complete line of grocery
items to serve your every need. We also
offer fresh beef, pork and poultry with
deli meats for your convenience. We
carry a complete selection of domestic
and import beers and wines. Last but not
least, we offer student charge accounts,
that can be sent home to your parents.
Stop by today and we will be glad to talk
to you about opening one.

Serving the W&L community for over 30 years.

 

Jack Pringle also had an outstanding
game in the goal with nine saves in
the first half alone.

The Generals got their second win
of the season on Tuesday when they
faced Eastern Mennonite College on
Smith Field. Outscoring Mennonite
3-2, W&L’s goals were scored by
Sarber, Coll, and sophomore Rick
Silva.

The fact that W&L’s first two vic-
tories were also their first two ODAC
games does not indicate at all that
another ODAC championship will be
an easy one toattain.

All members of the team are fairly
reassured by their last two perfor-
mances, but Brown said, ‘I think
we've played two of the easier teams
in the ODAC, so we’ll just have to

prowess to the team and proves to
others the talent and serious inten-
tions of the Generals.

Co-captain Liz Smith commented
on the collectively determined at-
mosphere, ‘‘The fact that we now
have varsity status gives us a lot of
confidence,’’ Smith said. ‘We're set
to surprise all the teams who con-
sider us underdogs simply because
this is our first competitive year.

“I’m very pleased with the prevail-
ing attitude, and I feel that the com-
bination of our experienced members
and the strength of the freshman
talent has improved our chances
tremendously.”

Although W&L lost to Randolph-

gett

DOWNTOWN LEXINGTON

 

Young Mens

Bugle Boy ©
Union Bay °
Izod ©

Guess ©

Ocean Pacific ®
Nikoata ©

Red Camel ©

 

Come See Our New Look

 

see,”

Head coach Rolf Piranian agrees
with Brown, ,inethat the ODAC
schedule is a very tough one all the
way through the season.

“T think that most of the games in
our conference will be pretty mich
dog fights,’ said Piranian. He also
said the only team so far this season
that has been playing better than the
rest of the pack is Mary Washington,
which was ranked fairly high na-
tionally at the close of the NCAA
Division III schedule last year.

This is not to indicate that the
Generals will see another ‘‘falling
out’’ this season, but it will be push
and shove all the way. W&L will play
host to Roanoke College on Smith
Field on Tuesday, Oct. 6.

Macon/Ashland on Tusday, the
respectable score of 2-0 was enough
to keep the players’ spirits high,
especially since Sweet Briar was
beaten by RM 8-1. Junior Betsy
Parkins said, ‘‘Realistically, the
score should have been 1-1, but there
were times when we didn’t make full
use of our opportunities.”

Co-captain Laurel Mattson agrees
with the observations made by her
teammates. ‘“‘We definitely have a
good chance of doing well in the con-
ference our team is not at the bottom,
as some other schools may believe,
she said.

Today, the Generals travel to play
Hollins, their biggest rival, and W&L
is positive of gaining its first victory.

Welcomes You

Junior Sportswear

Bugle Boy *
Union Bay ‘
Guess “

Esprit “
Tangiers “

Liz Claiborne ‘
Chaus “

 

150 S. Main Street
9:30 - 5:30 Monday - Thursday & Saturday

9:30 - 8:30 Friday
Leggett Charge, Mastercard, Visa, American Express
Instant Credit Available

 

aia a

ee

*

'
The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987, Page 9

 

Men harriers are shutout in first meet

 

Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

Shutouts in football, basebail,
hockey and soccer are usually an
everyday occurence, Shutouts in
cross country, however, are quite
rare, and a shutout is exactly what
happened to the Washington and Lee

» men’s cross country team last Satur-
day at Mary Washington.

The Generals lost 15-50, unable to

« place a single runner in the top seven
places. In cross country, low score
wins, with the team’s first five run-
. hers scoring the same number of

points as the place they finish. A
shutout occurs when a team has its
top five runners as well as its two
displacers finish ahead of the No. 1
runner for the opposition.

“We didn’t run well,’’ said head
coach Dick Miller. ‘We have run bet-
ter. Mary Washington has got a good
team — a well balanced team. They
had their first seven men within 52
seconds of each other. That’s tough to
beat.”’

Senior co-captain Scott Rippeon
was W&L’s top finisher, coming in
eighth place with a time of 27:11 over
the five-mile course. Junior Bill
Clark (9th), freshman Larry Pilke

‘Cason establishes

 

By Mike Shady
* Sports Editor

 

Sometimes a team’s performance
+ is measured by whether or not they
chalked up the ‘‘W”’ in the win col-
“umn. This was not the case last
» Saturday for the Washington and Lee
women’s cross country team.
The Generals lost 19-36 to host
«Mary Washington, but some sparkl-
ing individual performances were
“turned in by W&L. Freshman Paige

 

Cason, in her first collegiate meet,
shattered the school all-course five-
kilometer record. Cason finished sec-
ond in a time of 20:43, a full two
minutes ahead of the previous mark
of 22:45 set by Stephanie Smith last
season.

But it doesn’t stop there. Junior
Anne Geary (22:14, seventh place),
and freshmen Lovell West (22:15,
8th) and Heather Jenkins (22:27, 9th)
also beat Smith’s record.

“T’m very pleased,’’ said head
coach Jim Phemister. ‘I think they

(10th) and seniors Richard Moore
(ith) and Rick Norris (12th) round-
ed out the front five for the Generals.

Miller said the team was not
prepared for the course. Mary
Washington’s course is extremely
flat, resulting in a fast pace and fast
times.

“We were not ready for a flat
course,’’ he said. “We were not ready
for the pace. We lost contact early in
the meet and you can’t do that.”

Rippeon further explained. ‘‘We’ve
been training on hills with very little
speed work,” he said. ‘{Mary
Washington] also changed their

did an excellent job, Everyone ran at
or about a personal best and all nine
runners [finished] in less time than
we've ever had all our runners in
before.”’

“Everybody was stronger in-
dividually and the whole team was
stronger,”’ he said. ‘““You can’t ask
for a whole lot more.”

Cason had broken the school record
earlier in a time trial. Phemister,
however, said the outstanding perfor-
mances came as somewhat of a sur-
prise.

~ re ~ —
F - . 2
r "2 @

™

aa : i
» : Pe ht
ay .

 

 

i GOLDEN.
Refey sy. Oy

———— SS

»

eS

 
    

‘

v
y
|

  

    

 

U.S. Rt. 11 North
Lexington 463-1546
Sun.-Thurs., 1) a.m.-10 p.m.
Fri.-Sat., 11 a.m.-1) p.m.

 

 

W&L

me’? Snack Bar

’ Cool Off With
‘ Frozen Yogurt
J 70° Small
J 51.15 Large
Milkshakes 80° or 3/4 pt.

 

 

Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

course. Their other one had some
hills while this one was flat.

“I’m not really worried yet. This
was Mary Washington's third or
fourth meet and they were in really
good shape. The next time we will see
them will be in the Eastern
Regionals.”’

“It was a good day to run, and we
don’t have any excuses,”’ said Miller.

The General’s next meet is on
Saturday when they travel to Salem,
Va., to compete against Roanoke and
Norfolk State.

“We should beat Roanoke,” said
Rippeon. ‘‘It will be a good meet.”’

new school record

“Everybody was better than there
was any reason to expect them to be
able to be this early in the season,”’
he said.

The Generals travel to Salem, Va.
on Saturday to take on Norfolk State,
a team that has defeated W&L in
their previous two meetings.

“Norfolk State has always beaten
us,” Phemister said, ‘‘but this year I
think we have a chance to be com-
petitive against them. Whether we
will actually win or not, I don’t
know.”

a
"R

e

F
.

 

 

 

 

*

It’s good!

Junior Jay DeMarco kicks the winning field goal during the halftime contest
last Saturday on Wilson Field. DeMarco won $50 for his efforts. The contest is
sponsored by Local Rental Car and Aute Conditioning.

Macon

Continued from Page 9
dicates.’’ Randolph-Macon was
shut out in its first two games — a
23-0 season-opening loss to
Junaita College and a 33-0 poun-
ding by Washington and Jeffer-
son.

Last week on the road against
Catholic University, the Yellow
Jackets took the lead with 5:04 left
in the game on a 66-yard punt
return by sophomore Rich Con-
klin. But Catholic scored a
touchdown with only 1:10 remain-
ing and pulled off a 19-14 victory.
Because of these three losses,
“they’re going to be a hungry
bunch over there,”’ said Fallon.

But, after last year’s game
against the Yellow Jackets, the
Generals should be just as
hungry. In Lexington, W&L took
the lead, 20-14, on a one-yard
carry by tailback Kevin Weaver
with only 32 seconds left in the
game. But Randolph-Macon pull-
ed off a miracle, as wide receiver
Lance Herring caught a deflected
pass in the end zone with only one
second left. Herring kicked the
conversion attempt himself, giv-
ing the Yellow Jackets a 21-20 vic-
tory.

The W&L defense will probably
be keying on Smith, who had 25
carries for 95 yards in iast year’s
game. ‘‘He’s a really explosive
runningback,”’ said Fallon. A
first-team Old Dominion All-
Conference selection in 1986,
Smith ‘‘can turn a little play up
the middle into a 90-yard run,
becaue he’s got tremendous
breakaway speed and great open-

 

 

 

Henry Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

Generals beat Centre!

(Clockwise from left)

Senior Chris Coffland scores the winning touchdown against
Centre; sophomore Phil Sampson airs one out; Head Coach
Gary Fallon (left) and junior Keith Boyd talk about the next

Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi | fjeld running ability,’’ said Fallon.

“He’s a piece of dynamite out
there, that we hope doesn’t ex-
plode,”’ said Fallon.

CORRECTION

In last week’s Ring-tum Phi, the
men’s cross country captains were
identified as Scott Rippeon and
Richard Moore. This is incorrect.
The captains are Rippeon and senior

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi play. Rick Norris.
<a re —
Lexington Prescription Center fac tata
“Door to Complete Health Care”
¢ Family Patient Profiles (Taxes &
Insurance) i
* Sickroom & hospital supplies (sales & pare, | Yamaha 185 Exciter
rentals) Sn ae Bought new, 800 miles,
* Lift chairs 463-91 66 Excellent Condition, $800.00
* Ostomy supplies (Hollister) ES a Call 261-6651, after 6p.m.
* Orthopedic & surgical supplies Free Delivery *
ponte, services: Nv W. Washington St. L RAND GENE RENTER: RIL IN EB

Lexington Lighting

‘ie

Reading Table Lamps

     
     
   
       
  
 

[ Clamp on Light
The Bulbs to Light Them Up
Little Book Light
Tree Floor Lamps
Bankers Lamp
With Green
Case Shade
Handing '
Lamps j

26 South Main St.

Lexington

463-9338

September 9, 1987.

Post Office
Spanky’s

The Paims
Pappagallo
Ladies’ Habit
Travel Unlimited
McCrum’‘s

Sweet Things
Fantasies

Pres Brown’s
Flip Side
University Florist

 

 

The students of Washington and Lee University would like to extend their sincere appreciation to the
following area businesses for their support in the first Washington and Lee Scavenger Hunt, held on

Bradshaw Frame Shop

The Matriculation Committee on behalf of the Class of 1991

 

White Florist
Leggett’s

Dominion Bank
First American Bank
University Cleaners
Lexington Hardware
Crestar Bank
Jefferson Florist
Hodge Podge

Hunter & Huntress
Lioyd’s

Capers

College Town

 

 
THE

   
  

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

Following weeks of rumor, the
truth about the 1987 Washington and
Lee Homecoming concert has surfac-
ed - the concert is Fixxed

On Friday night, October 9th, the
Student Activities Board will present
Dream So Real and The Fixx in con-
cert at the Student Activities
Pavillion beginning at 8:00 p.m

Dreams So Real will be opening for
the second straight time at
Washington and Lee. Last May, they
put on a fantastic show opening for
Love Tractor and Guadalcanal Diary
in the spring concert, and this year
will be warming up the stage for The
Fixx

“Students can look forward to a
wider variety of talent and entertain-
ment this year,’ said S.A.B. chair-
man Sean Coyle.” ‘‘We (the S.A.B.)
are going to spend the student’s
money more wisely, and hope to pro-
vide entertainment for the entire stu-
dent body S:

The Fixx comes to W&L having
just released ‘‘React,”’ a collage of
live music, old hits, and three new
studio cuts. Though their last album,
“Walkabout,”’ failed to wow music
audiences like ‘Phantoms’ and
“Reach the Beach,’’ their previous
two albums, The Fixx is optimistic
about their new release.

‘Because our last album was a bit
out of synch with mass appeal, we
were forced into ‘change or bust’”’
said lead singer Cy Curnin. ‘Deep
down we are a rock n’roll band...I
think the new songs are a lot better
-fresher, It was almost like starting
over.”

Many will remember the populari-
ty the Fixx enjoyed in the early 1980's
with the release of ‘Reach the
Beach,” a platinum album whose

BACK PAGE
SAB FIXXes Homecoming

The Fixx — feature band for Homecoming 1987.

smashes ‘‘Saved By Zero’”’ and ‘One
Thing (Leads to Another)’’ became
staples of Night Tracks, Friday
Night Videos, and MTV.

In addition to these Fixx classics,
songs we can expect to hear Friday
night include ‘‘Red Skies,”’ ‘‘Deeper
and Deeper,’’’’Stand or Fall,” ‘‘Built
for the Future,’’ and the smash’*hit
“Are We Ourselves’ from the

“Phantoms” LP.

The new music is stronger. It
pulsates and drives. ‘‘React” is like a
bonding force between the past, pre-
sent, and future of The Fixx’s music.

“In the end,”’ says Curnin, ‘‘all we
can do — all you can do — is jux-
tapose imagination against reality.
Hopefully, your imagination will
become reality. It only takes a small

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1987

e P|

File Photo

thing to spark off a fixed moment in
time — for everyone to see the whole
thing at once. Those are the moments
we're after.”

Tickets for the 1987 Homecoming
concert are $8.00 and will go on ad-
vance sale in the bookstore Wednes-
day, October 7th. The concert will
begin promptly at 8:00 p.m.
Refreshments will be available.

Pool.

Lynchburg.

Pool.

Field.

Woman’s College.

University Center.

ty Courts.

School.

 

CALENDAR

Thursday, October |
All Day — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Open
House for faculty, staff and students. Room 129, University Center.
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Uniformed Services University
of the Health Sciences,”’ Peter J. Stavish. Room 401, Howe Hall
Refreshments at 4:30 in room 402. Public invited.
8 p.m. — CONCERT GUILD: Roxbury Chamber Players and Max Lif
chiz, pianist. Lee Chapel. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN'S SOCCER: Hollins College

Friday, October 2
All Day — W&L Debates. Call ext. 8812 for information
10a.m.— WOMEN’S TENNIS: W&L Invitational. Varisty Courts
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY: Lady Jane. Classroom ‘‘A,"’ Lewis Hall

Saturday, October 3
All Day — W&L Debates. Call ext. 8812 for information
All Day — WATER POLO: Southern League (Round 1). Twombly

10a.m.— WOMEN’S TENNIS: W&L Invitational. Varisty Courts.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY: Lady Jane. Classroom ‘‘A,”’ Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: CROSS COUNTRY (W): Norfolk State,
Salem, Va.; CROSS COUNTRY (M): Roanoke College, Norfolk State,
Salem, Va.; FOOTBALL: Randolph-Macon; WOMEN’S SOCCER:

Sunday, October 4
All Day — WATER POLO: Southern League (Round 1). Twombly

2:30 p.m. — ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: North
Carolina Dance Theatre. Lexingotn High School.

Monday, October 5
4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume
Workshop. Room 109, University Center.

Tuesday, October 6
3:30 p.m. — MEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Roanoke College. Smith

4p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Interview-
ing Workshop. Room 109, University Center.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S SOCCER: Randolph-Macon

Wednesday, October 7
All Day — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Mock
Video Interviews (advance sign-up in CD&P office).. Room 129,

11 a.m.-5 p.m. RED CROSS BLOODMOBILE. Doremus Gymnasium.
3 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Emory and Henry. Varis-

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: Norma Rae. Room 327, Commerce

 

 

 

ROLLING STONE misses five in Top 100.

 

1907-1982 A TWENTIETH ANNIVERSARY SPECIAL ISSUE

 

 

 

Rolling Stone’s 20th Anniversary Issue

August 27, 1987.

Psunspot

 

By Greg Unger
Music Critic

 

This is the latest release from
XTC’s alter ego—The Dukes of
Stratosphear—and the album, Psonic
Psunspot, is psensational.

Under this psedonym, XTC fully
immerses themselves in the current
60's revisionist craze without sound-
ing stale or repetitive. This shouldn't
seem difficult, for they're credited
with helping to create the style and
simultaneously thrusting it upon us
as representative of the cutting edge
of progressive music in the late 80's.

However, we like that. This stuff is
great, if a little difficult to nail down
as wholly representative of either

 
     
       
     
 

 

eT e
George’s Hairstylist
since 1963
directly behind Leggett’s

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell
Vo

 

File Photo

The Dukes or XTC. The songs ob-
viously smack of XTC’s recent
Skylarking L.P., yet they borrow
heavily from the 60’s sound—most
notably the Beatles and the Beach
Boys.

To claim that The Dukes are
Beatles wannabe’s is a little strong,
yet not unimaginable. Perhaps this
album can best be described as
chameleon—like, which only stands
as a testimony to their musical vir-
tuosity. Andy Partridge’s lyrics and
voice remain strong and distinct, and
though reminiscent of another era,
there can be no mistaking this music
as also distinctly modern.

Psunspot opens” with
“Vanishing Girl’’ a good tune that
sets the generally up-beat tempo of

Psonic

A

nade Sr ee -

By David McDowell
Entertainment Critic

 

After the umpteenth time Michael
J. Fox appeared on the cover of
Rolling Stone, 1 cancelled my
subscription; I had been shelling out
money hopeing for a magazine that
treated the culture surrounding rock
and roll seriously and instead got
Tiger Beat. But right around the end
of summer the teeny mag got my
attention—I was hearing friends
gripe about a feature article in the
August 27th issue of RS. Apparently
Rolling Stone had attempted to
catalogue, ,through the opinions of
seventeen rock writers, the best 100
albums released over the last twenty
years, and apparently none agreed
with their list. Which didn’t surprise
me. Rock music has almost as many
sects as it has groups—an unbroken
spectrum of musical tastes from
Deadheads to Madonna Wanna Be’s
to Bang-Y our-Head-and-be-
Obnoxious heavy metalists—
everybody has their rock and roll
tastes and whoever thinks differently
is obviously a tasteless clod.

Well, I'm no better than the next
person, and when I first saw the arti-
cle I called b.s. on probably half the

the L.P. ‘“‘Have you seen Jackie”’
follows and is the weakest track on
the album. Here The Dukes of
Stratosphear begin to intermingle
the tracks on the album with an
essentially ambigious and weird
fairy-tale that unravels as each song
is played. Never mind. ‘“‘Little
Lighthouse”’ is a great song worthy of
single status. ‘‘You’re a Good Man
Albert Brown’ sounds extremely
beatleish (remember ‘‘Obla-di, obla-
da’’?) and the first side ends with a
R.E.M.-ish tune, ‘‘Collideascope.
The ““B” side opens with Psonic
Psumspots most stunning — son,

albums., but after mulling it over for
a while, I saw that, like it or not, most
of the albums that made the list are
justifiable, whether in terms of in-
fluence or simply out of giving
representation to a_ particular
musical sect. Naturally I had some
irreconcilable differences, but rather
than attempt to discredit that music I
instead offer a handful of alubms
(with capsule explanations) which
were disgracefully omitted from the
top 100.

This is the Moody Blues (The Moody
Blues) This is has a unity to it that
most greatest hits albums _ lack.
Many ot the songs appearing on tne
album were re-recorded and inter-
twined with other songs in fresh set-
tings. Justin Hayward has vocal con-
trol and power virtually unequalled
by any singer in any genre. Nearly
every word he sings is a lung full.
This is exists as a milestone to
Timothy Leary and his disciples who
thought that acid would herald in a
new area of awareness and
understanding. Acid lost its in-
nocence in hard and unromantic
ways, but This is the Moody Blues re-
mains as a historical document to a
time when a few romantic (if naive)
revolutionaries stood, as they pro-
claim, “On the Threshold of a
Dream.”’

Tommy (The Who) Pete Townsh-

LP is Psensational

“You’re My Drug.” This song is ab-
solutely addictive and ranks with the
best ever done by XTC. ‘‘Braniacs
Daughter’ should've been on Sky-
larking. The last 2 songs are slower
and accentuate the charisma in
Patridge’s voice. ‘‘Pale and
Precious” is particularly strong, as
well as heavily influenced by the
Beach Boys. It’s also schizophrenic
slow and then picking up the pace

Psonic Psunspot effectively blends
the old and the new. XTC fans — buy
this album/tape/CD. Everyone
else—same thing.

Ear Value * * * '4 (out of 4)

 

 

 

 

Remember to

Give Blood

to the Red Cross

October 7th, 1987
11:00 a.m. -
Doremus Gymnasium

5:00 p.m.

 

 

 

end’s rock opera elevated the Who to
superstardom. Tommy tells the story
of Tommy Walker, a deaf, dumb and
blind pinball wizard whose sensory
deprivation gives him undistracted
intellect so that when his sefhses are
restored he becomes the ‘new

Messiah.”’ Townshend's story is in-
ventive, his lyrics poignant: “If I told
you what it takes/to reach the
highest high/you’d laugh and say
‘nothing's that simple’/But you've
been told many times
before/Messiahs pointed to the
door/and none had the guts to leave
the temple!’’ Tommy swept rock
away from the standard two and a
half minute single and gave musi-
cians free reign.

‘Will the Circle be Unbroken (Nitty
Gritty Dirt Band, et al.) This 1971
album placed a group of young
California rock musicians in the
same studio with such country greats
as Roy Acuff, Mother Maybelle
Carter, Earl Scruggs and Doc Wat-
son. Circle is deserving of placement
both in terms of sheer listenability
and for bridging together two genera-
tions and their particular sounds of
music.

Jeff Wayne's Musical | ersion of HG.
Wells’ War of the Worlds (Jeff Wayne
et al). Richard Burton narrates, and
the Moody Blues’ Justin Hayward,
actress Julie Covington and Thin Liz-

BORE ceemae nn RRR le NR EM SARL AAR ETE GY ERENT, A NES REGED SERIES HUMOR SLOTS EES SC RE
LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-5988

zy's Phil Lynott are just some of the
vocalists contributing to this
dynamic manifestation of a truly
weird idea. I offer this to you because
a) it’s musically flawless b) it’s
universally appealling and c) so-
meones on my hall borrowed it from
me freshman year and I sure would
like it back if you’re reading.

Fragile (Yes) — Unlike many rock
albums with heavy classical in-
fluences, Yes doesn’t oury itself in
ostentation on Fragile. Fragile is ar-
resting, it demands attention. I
always play it in the car when I want
people to shut up. Steve Howe’s
lightening-quick guitar riffs, Rick
Wakeman’s keyboard finesse, and
Jon Anderson’s inimitable vocals
make this a five star album.

I guess the great thing about the
three way marriage of the population
explosion, technology and rock and
roll is that music has really catered
to the individual in the last twenty
years. As Rolling Stone concedes,
“The only master list that matters is
the one you carry around inside your
head.”’ I’ve done a great deal of
listening in my day, though, and after
a while it becomes clear that some
few albums are not merely listened
to passively—they are experienced,
they involve the listener. And they
garner some defensive fans along the
way.

 

 

 

wr noe
LEASE LEON ARLE ELECT

 

: —— ey

KELLY’S CORNER

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

463-5452
ge PE ee ener eet eee erry
Mee. 5 5G eck Ri $3.89
Sie Mata ORO, § 25 isk as Ga, $2.99

Hunting Licenses, Groceries, Camo Clothes, Game Room
Open 7 days Miles & Sandy Nye, proprietors

 

 

Lexington Shoe Hospital
Downtown Lexington

(Expert Shoe Repair)

Would like to welcome back all W&L students and a
special welcome to W&L coeds.

3 West Nelson Street,

Lexington, Va

 

.

.

ie ee
