 

VOLUME 87, NUMBER 19

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

- Che Ring-tum phy

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 3, 1988

 

 

 

 

 

Seven candidates
run for Big Three

 

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

 

 

The seven candidates running
for Big Three offices are: (top
row, left to right) for president:
Christopher de Movellan, Matt
Bryant; for vice-president: Chris
Giblin, Hugh Finklestein; (bottom
row, I-r) for secretary: David
Grove, Edward Yu, and Alston
Parker.

 

 

Although Lee Chapel was not full
on Tuesday, March 1, the seven can-
didates for the Big Three elections
launched their campaigns in an open
forum. Under the direction of EC
President Brad Root, the candidates
presented their platforms and an-
swered questions concerning current
issues and their possible positions.

Presidential candidate Matt Bryant,
a junior, opened the proceedings with
his speech. He said served on the EC
his freshman and sophomore years,
and thinks he has the ability to execute
the office well. Due to his in-
volvement in the 1988 Mock Demo-
cratic Convention, he says he did not
run for re-election this year but thinks
he has gained valuable administrative
knowledge from his involvement with
the Mock Convention.

Junior Christopher de Movellan

says he gained experience during his
sophomore and junior years on the
EC. In his past year with the EC, de
Movellan thinks he has _ learned
enough about the EC’s proceedings to
serve as an effective president. His
says one of his goals will be to im-
prove student involvement in SAB
functions.

Both presidential candidates tou-
ched on the issue of confidentiality
concerning the closed trial proceed-
ings and said that preserving the
Honor System will be their main goal.
de Movellan added that he would like
to return the EC to it’s role as a fact-
finding body instead of a prosecuting
body in honor trials.

First-year law student Hugh Finkel-
stein said he stands on his background
as a W&L undergraduate and his past
year as an EC representative in run-
ning for vice-president. If elected,
Finkelstein said he plans to improve

(_|See Election, page 3

 

  

h

 

 

 

 

Convention picks

‘Super Tuesday

t

+

«

 

From Staff Reports

 

W&L’s Mock Democratic Conven-
tion will not make its final prediction

, of the 1988 Democratic presidential
: nominee until March 26.

But after correctly predicting Ri-

' chard Gephardt and Michael Dukakis

as the winners of Iowa and New
Hampshire respectively, the Mock
Convention now turns its attention to

, Super Tuesday and the 20 states and

ee

1,307 Democratic delegates at stake in
the March 8 event.

Basing their predictions on the in-
formation being gathered by its
research staff of state and regional co-

' ordinators, the Mock Convention has

forecast that Massachusetts Governor
Michael Dukakis will win the primar-

’ ies in Florida, Maryland, Texas,

oe

Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Ok-
lahoma, as well as the caucuses in

” Hawaii and Washington.

~

Jesse Jackson, who kicked off the
Mock Convention with a speech last

_ May on the W&L campus, will win
' Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Miss-

~

, according

~

issippi, North Carolina, and Virginia,
to Mock Convention

 

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

Candidates for elections were an-

» nounced Monday night at the Execu-

~

-

a

tive Committee meeting.

Also, the EC decided to invite
members of the Student Affairs
Committee to meet with them and the
student body next Monday night.

With elections looming Monday,
and the run-off Thursday, candidates
for the office of EC president are
Matthew Bryant and Christopher
de Movellan.

Running for Vice-President are
Hugh Finkelstein and Christopher Gi-
blin.

Running for Secretary are David
Grove, Alston Parker, and Edward
¥u,

EC members proposed to meet with
SAC after receiving complaints from
the student body about recent SAC ac-

research.

Tennessee Senator Albert Gore,
who is hoping for a strong Super
Tuesday showing to boost his candi-
dacy will win in Arkansas, Idaho,
Kentucky, Tennessee, and Nevada.
Missouri Congressman Richard Ge-
phardt will win his home state.

Samuel K. Conner, chairman of the
credentials committee, comments
that, ‘Jackson will prove he’s a force
to be reckoned with by carrying
several Southern states. But the big
winner will be Dukakis because he
will again make a strong showing in
states outside his natural region. By
doing so, he will emerge as the front-
runner from Super Tuesday.”’

‘*Simon’s campaign will effectively
be crushed,’’ Conner added. ‘By net
running in the South, he denied him-
self the opportunity to continue as a
national candidate.”’

Chip Gist, political research chair-
man, commented that, ‘‘Jackson will
undoubtedly pick up a great deal of
delegates, as will Dukakis. The real
battle, however, will narrow down to
Gephardt versus Gore. Both have a
great deal to prove.”’

Washington and Lee’s Mock Con-

EC names candidates,

tions, particularly those regarding
fraternity Rush.

The meeting with SAC would be to
‘‘clear the air’’ about the recent SAC
actions.

EC President Brad Root said he
would try to get SAC to postpone their
final decision on Rush until next
week, so they could hear some of the
student concerns. EC Representative
Christopher de Movellan expressed a
desire for more openness in SAC ac-
tions.

SAC is composed completely of
members elected from the faculty and
administrators.

EC Representative Michael Suttle
said that he was concerned that some
of the members of SAC had no expe-
rience with fraternities and ‘‘wouldn’t
know what they were all about.”’

In other EC news, the EC discussed
two ongoing concerns: parking on
Washington Street and a coin machine
for the university laundry room under

 

 

 

Predictions
First Second Third Margin

Alabama Jackson Gore Gephardt Small
Arkansas Gore Jackson Gephardt Moderate
Florida Dukakis —_ Gephardt Jackson Moderate
Georgia Jackson Gore—Dukakis—Gephardt xk &
Hawaii Dukakis Gephardt Gore Landslide
Idaho Gore Gephardt Dukakis Small
Kentucky Gore Dukakis Gephardt Moderate
Louisiana Jackson Dukakis Gore Moderate
Maryland Dukakis Jackson Gore Small
Massachusetts Dukakis Simon Jackson Landslide
Mississippi Jackson Gore Gephardt Moderate
Missouri Gephardt — Dukakis Jackson Landslide
Nevada Gore Dukakis Jackson Moderate
North Carolina Jackson Gore Dukakis Moderate
Oklahoma Dukakis Gephardt Gore Moderate
Rhode Island Dukakis Gephardt Gore Landslide
Tennessee Gore Jackson Gephardt Landslide
Texas Dukakis Jackson Gore Moderate
Virginia Jackson Gore Gephardt Moderate
Washington Dukakis Gephardt Simon Landslide

Key to Margin of Winner: * * *Note: As of Tuesday a.m., the
Small—0 to 5% Mock Convention researchers found
Moderate—6 to. 15% the second and third places in Georgia
Landslide—15% plus too close to call.

 

 

 

vention has correctly forecast the
nominee of the party out of the White
House 13 times in 18 attempts since its
inception in 1908, and 8 of the last 9
since 1948.

The Mock Convention will take
place Friday and Saturday, March 25
and 26. The Convention will get
underway at 10 a.m. Friday with a
parade through Lexington. The first

plans SAC

Graham-Lees dorm.

The EC also held budget hearings
for the Political Review, the Film So-
ciety, and the Fencing and Squash
clubs appeared to have their accounts
unfrozen.

Parking problems on Washington
Street were raised in the EC before
break, mostly due to complaints of
freshmen leaving their cars there for
days on end. Sporadic police enfor-
cement made this easy.

The university can do nothing about
the problem since it doesn’t own the
street, reported EC representative
John McDonough after his meeting
with Frank Parsons, President Wil-
son’s assistant. McDonough and fel-
low representative Judson Parker will
meet with the Parking Committee to
discuss the problem.

If feasible, McDonough reported,

session will begin Friday afternoon at
1:30 p.m. On Saturday, the Mock
Convention’s 1300 student delegates
will attempt to predict the 1988 presi-
dential and vice-presidential nomi-
nees.

The Super Tuesday forecasts by the
W&L Mock Democratic Convention
as of Tuesday, A.M. March 1.

meeting

the school may petition the city to buy
the street.

Freshman EC Representative Wil-
lard Dumas reported that a request has
been made of the company which
owns the laundry machines in Gra-
ham-Lees to put in a change machine.

If they are unable to, the University
will consider purchasing one and in-
stalling it.

Dumas has been working on this
problem since he was sworn in as an
EC member. He said he has developed
a ‘‘new respect for the university bu-
reaucracy.””

All the articles are in for the Politi-
cal Review, Greg Dale said when he

 

appeared for the group at its budget
hearing. To save money, he will type

evening.

(See EC, page 3

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Construction crew

SAB members hang paper in the Warner Center. The SAB has been working on dec-
orations for the 81st annual Fancy Dress Ball for more than a week. The ball begins Fri-
day at 8:30 p.m. A fireworks display, which will begin at 12:40 a.m., will conclude the

MSA asks faculty support of boycott; SAB adjusts FD’s decorations

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-Editor

 

W&L’s Minority Student Association has
decided ‘‘by a majority vote’’ to boycott this
year’s Fancy Dress because the theme, ‘‘The
Reconciliation Ball of 1865,’’ celebrates a time
in which blacks had no rights, said Rosalyn

: Thompson, President of MSA.

MSA has sent a letter to the faculty asking
them to show its support by joining the boy-
cott. The MSA also plans to ask that in the fu-

ture the SAB get approval of the theme from

the deans.
For the SAB, ‘‘it’s full steam ahead,’’ said

_ Tom O'Brien, chairman of Fancy Dress.

‘‘Fancy Dress is a social event not a politi-
cal event. We respect their opinion and right

_ to boycott the ball. We're sorry they won't be

attending,’’ said O’Brien.
Thompson said, ‘“We feel that the SAB,

_ even if we hadn’t boycotted, had disinvited us

by choosing a theme and setting it in a period

' that we have nothing to celebrate about.’’

'

“It’s like having a Trail of Tears party and

inviting the Indians, or having a Third Reich
party and inviting the Jews. What would they
celebrate?

‘In 1865 in American History, it is the
exact year that they passed the black codes.
Ninety percent of the blacks lived in the
South. In the South they passed laws that said
blacks could not inter-marry, and blacks had
to live on a certain percentage of land. They
were reviving the old slave codes. So blacks
were not slaves, but they were treated as
slaves,’’ said Thompson, ‘*‘Between 1865 and
1866 the original KKK was formed in Tennes-
ioe.”
According to J. Holt Merchant, Professor
of History, reconstruction was a time in which
blacks were given some rights, ‘but not too
many rights that the elite whites had trouble ra-
ising a labor force.

“If there was a reconciliation, it didn’t
occur until quite late in the nineteenth century.
The symbolic event is the Spanish-American
war, where the southerners and northerners
joined together to beat up on the poor Span-
iards,’’ said Merchant.

‘*Essentially, northern whites said ‘we

value national unity more highly than we
value the protection of black rights’,’’ said
Merchant.

“It seems to me that in a progressive uni-
versity that you would opt for a theme that
wouldn't offend anyone,’’ Thompson said.

‘*The theme shows a lack of sensitivity, and
that’s something that education should give
you. I think that they [the SAB] need to ask
WA&L for a better education if they still can’t
understand why [we are offended by the
theme. ]”’

Thompson said she has received support
from the student body and said that many stu-
dents think ‘‘if we had just picked another
theme, then none of this would have hap-
pened.’* Several non-MSA students have also
told her that they intend to boycott, although
MSA has not asked the student body to join
the boycott.

‘**We’re not asking for a school-wide boy-
cott,"’ said Thompson, ‘‘We don’t want
Fancy Dress to fail. We think it’s something
important that this institution does.”’

MSA did send a letter to all faculty mem-
bers’ explaining their position and asking the

faculty to show their support by boycotting the
ball.

‘*I personally am going to boycott. I’ve tal-
ked to some faculty members who are also not
going,’ said Merchant.

‘I find myself in a peculiar position be-
cause I teach Southern History, | am South-
ern, and I value my past. On the other hand, I
don’t value all aspects of my past equally,’”
said Merchant, ‘‘This appears to be a celebra
tion of aspects of Southern history that I find
indefensible.

‘“‘T normally go to Fancy Dress. I’m dis
appointed I’m not going to hear Glenn Mil-
ler,’’ he said, *‘but I’m not.””

President John D. Wilson will attend.

‘I hope my attendance will not be con
strued as some vote for or against this issue
that divides us,’’ said Wilson. He said he will
attend the ball simply because it is a major
function of the university

MSA students say they want the theme to
gain approval from the deans

‘‘We want the university to set a policy
where the SAB will have to turn in the theme
early in order to get the deans approval so that

it will never go this far again,’’ said Thomp-
son.

‘That doesn’t mean it won’t be a secret. It
just means they will have approval and all this
will be avoided.”’

Currently, the SAB receives suggestions
from the Executive Committee and the deans,
but the final decision remains in the SAB’s
hands.

‘*From my perspective, the SAB was acting
in good faith and without malicious intent or
racial _motivation,’’ said Dean of Students
Lewis John.

‘| think after the fact, the fact being the de-
termination of the theme, the SAB has tried to
meet some of the objections that MSA has,
such as certain parts of the decorations,’’ said
John.

According to John, SAB officials approa-
ched John and Dean Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ At-
kins during the fall with several suggestions
for the theme. John said that he and Atkins
raised several concerns with the theme of
‘Reconciliation Ball of 1865,’’ including the

See FD, page 3
OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1988

 

Help out

In the coming week, Washington and Lee students will have an
opportunity to help chart the course of the Honor System in the fu-
ture. The White Book Revisions Committee is beginning to gather
student opinion for their study of possible changes in the White
Book, which outlines the functioning of the Honor System. The im-
portance of the book is great; it guides our honorable conduct from
day to day. Therefore, the possibility of change in the system is an

extremely significant event.

The committee will be placing suggestion boxes at different
places on campus. They have guaranteed that all suggestions will be
kept confidential in order to collect true student opinion of the
Honor System. We encourage everyone to read their copy of the
White Book and submit any suggestions they may have. If one does
not think that the White Book should be changed, then one should
let the committee know. For those who do not have a copy of the
White Book, contact an Executive Committee member to find

where a copy can be obtained.

The committee is also holding an open honor forum on March 8
at 8 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. At this forum, the committee will
present the ideas they have received at that point, as well as take
suggestions from the audience. Again, we encourage everyone to
participate in this event. Without student interest the forum, and the
committee itself, can not be a success.

For those people who have expressed complaints about the Honor
System privately, now is the time to bring them into the open. The
current student generation is supposed to decide how the system
will work. If students just sit back and expect the revisions commit-
tee to do the work for them, nothing can be accomplished. Students
have to become involved now to insure the future.

Cobb questions the

Fancy Dress theme

 

MY VIEW
By Jimm Cobb

 

After reading the ‘‘Twenty Ques-
tions and Answers’’ column in the
F.D. supplement, I decided to ask the
student body for their opinions of this
article. The following responses refer
to specific questions and were given
by members of S.A.B., E.C., and the
general student population; and are a
mixture of direct quotes, ideas, and
overheard conversations.

Question 1: How do you think Tom
got to be Chairman of Fancy Dress?
Answers: ‘‘Well he probably begged,
grovelled, and pleaded for it.’’

“*T have no idea.”’

Question 2: What are Tom’s actual
F.D. responsibilities?

Answers: ‘‘Coming up with his own
ideas for F.D. and doing what he
wants; no matter what anyone says.
'**P_.-_.. people off.”’

Question 3: How well do you think he
used the money?

Answers: ‘‘I don’t know yet.”’

“*Well, he used it as a leverage to get
his theme approved. He was supposed
to bring the theme to the E.C. for ap-
proval before he spent any money, but
after not having a theme for a month
or so, he brought the theme before the
E.C. with money already spent on the
theme.”’

Question 5: How difficult do you
think it was to get the bands?

Answers: ‘‘There shouldn’t have been
any problem—have you heard of these
bands; they should pay us.’’

‘*The bands are the only thing going
fol.”

**How many times will ‘Love Tractor’
play here?”’

Question 7: What will be different
about this year?

Answers: ‘‘Well, as compared to last

NEW STAFF

OPINION PAGE STAFF

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Che Ring-tum Ph.

PA er Perry Hayes

Baar) Page Bir acc. scssseccsecccscsscrssccesseesssace
CHROOT veresececrrerecrccsccosecsseroeceasvsrovcnneseesoeer

ee I 50 iti aia Rhona Hughes

Advertising Manager.............60e0es005
Circulation Manager ..........-...60eeee0e

‘rhe Ring-tum Wni is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

year’s, this one will p--- off a lot more
people.”’

“I’m not going.”’

Question 8: What do you think about
this year’s theme?

Answers: ‘‘It’s stupid.’

Why have a theme where you can
wear only one of two costumes?

“It’s childish.”’

‘*Why not just call it reconstruction?’’
‘For a real theme, have someone at
UVA make it up.”’

Question 9: What are some other sug-
gestions.

_ Answers: ‘‘Roaring Twenties”’

“*Renaissance”’

‘‘Henry the VIII, Medieval, or some-
thing like that.’’

Question 11: Where does the money
come from?

Answers: ‘Well, considering they
will lose a lot of money, the students’
activities fees.”’

‘*From all of the students who don’t
go.””

Question 12: What is the most excit-
ing thing about this year’s ball?
Answers: ‘I’m not going.”’

“UVA”

‘*The controversy.’’

Question 16: When do you think they
really started planning the ball?
Answers: ‘‘Sometime in Tom’s der-
anged childhood. ”’

‘*Well, he was supposed to have the
theme approved long ago, but the
E.C. only found out about it a week or
two before break. By then the S.A.B.
had already spent the money, and it
was too late to change the theme.”’

Well there you have a truer story; if
not, remember truth is stranger than
fiction.

I would like to applaud Tom for
making his name infamous in his
senior year, after so many years of
trying. Also, I want to know why he
went out on his own, against the E.C..,
and spent unapproved money. Finally,
I want to ask, Does a theme that has to
have excuses and explanations made
for it really have a place at W&L?

Jason Faust
Christie Champlin
Eddie Klank

Evangelist saves souls through dirty ditty

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

Recently, I noticed thousands of
posters around the campus advertising
a speech on ‘‘Maximum Sex’’ to be
given by a person named ‘‘Josh,’’ I
immediately reasoned that Josh must
be a famous pornographic movie di-
rector who planned to show a sneak
preview of ‘‘Debbie Does Dallas, Part
Ill.” And, since I enjoyed Debbie
Does Dallas, Parts I & II so much, I
decided to attend.

It turns out Josh is a fire and brim-
stone evangelist and his speech had as
much to do with maximum sex as non-
alcoholic drinks do with fraternity par-
ties. For those of you who aren't
lucky enough to have spent a Friday
night listening to an evangelist, your
education is not complete. But don’t
worry, this article will fulfill your ed-
ucational needs. (Note: the author of
this article cannot fulfill his own edu-
cational needs, much less yours.)

Important Evangelical Facts

1) Evangelists do exist. (Many peo-
ple believe they were created by net-

work T.V. producers in the interest of
Sunday morning humor.)

2) Evangelists are always right.

3) Evangelists scream a lot.

4) Evangelists talk to God whenever
they feel like it.

The Reverend Josh’s main idea was
that God condemns adultery not be-
cause he doesn’t want you to have fun,
but because he wants to provide for
you and protect you from the draw-
backs of adultery and pornography.
To help those of you who are having
trouble with this abstract concept I
will give you a concrete example.

Scene 1: Josh is relaxing on the
couch reading The Daily Damnation
(his favorite newspaper) and writing
his four-hundred-twenty-first book
when he notices his son, Lazarus, has
a copy of the Sports Illustrated Swim
Suit Issue hidden in the Bible he is
supposed to be reading.

Josh: (screaming at the top of his
lungs) Lazarus! What magazine is
that!?

Lazarus: Gee Dad, it’s the Christian
Chronicle

Josh: No it’s not! It’s the Sports Il-
lustrated Swim Suit Issue and you're
looking at the topless blonde on page
24! I was forced to study every detail
of those pictures for the Church Cen-
sorship Committee. I hated every sec-

ond of it. (He picks up a 2 by 4 and
strikes Lazarus, knocking out his front
teeth.)

Lazarus: Dad, why are you hitting
me in the face with a 2 by 4?

Josh: I’m obligated to provide and
protect you from pornography.

After hearing Josh speak I believe
President Reagan should appoint him
as a Supreme Court Justice. The Su-
preme Court needs open-minded
judges like Josh.

Josh: (to the other judges) We will
outlaw adultery, pornography, ho-
mosexuals, Dr. Ruth, condoms, Bugs
Bunny, rated ‘*R’’ movies and ...

Other judges: But Josh, that would
violate seven amendments, court
precedent, and every civil right I can
think of.

Josh: | DON’T CARE! Do it NOW
or burn in hell.

If the Supreme Court doesn’t work
out Josh could always become Editor
of The Weekly World News or The
National Enquirer. (Important female
aesthetic tip: I recently read in one of
these magazines that sneezing in-
creases Bust Size)

One thing that impressed me about
Josh was his versatility. He lectures to
communist farmers, pre-school chil-
dren, the State Department, profes-
sors, college students, and anyone else

who will listen to him (not many peo-
ple fall into the last category, but who
am I to talk, not many people read,
these articles either.)

To give the reader a sense of Josh’s
versatility I will recreate a speech he ,
recently gave before ‘‘The Young
Poets of America Association:"*

“Brothers and Sisters, good even- ,
ing. When I told the Lord I was gonna
be lecturin’ to poets he helped write *
me a poem. Yes folks, the good Lord ,
likes poetry.

Don’t think you can make safe love |

Just cuz you’re wearing a rubber ;
glove

i

You'll get diseases that make you
sick. :
Your hormones are playing a dirty

trick.
Chastity is good and great.
Pre-marital sex—a hellish fate.
When married couples start a mergin’ ,

Each one better be a virgin
4
If you allow to roam your animal de-
sires ‘

In after-life you'll burn in fires.

Listen to me, I talk to God
Brothers! Control your rod
Dr. Ruth is a fraud.

] See Sbar, Page 3

To the Editor:

I read with considerable disgust, though no sur-
prise, Rosalyn D. Thompson and the Minority
Student Association’s litany of whining in last
week’s Phi. Apparently this year’s Fancy Dress
theme does not meet with their approval. Alth-
ough I think this year’s theme is generally awk-
ward, silly, and unimaginative, it is hardly the
vicious insult to black students that the MSA
claims.

Miss Thompson chides the SAB by asking how
they expect black students to enjoy an FD with a
theme set in a period ‘‘when blacks were oppres-
sed.’’ The question makes the ridiculous assump-
tion that the SAB should make the enjoyment of a
small group of cranky radicals like MSA para-
mount to is FD theme criteria. In addition, the
MSA apparently feels that a theme set in such a
period is so evil that they must organize a boycott.
Are we to assume then that MSA would also find
unacceptable any theme pertaining to an era or
event which took place before, say, the 1964 Civil
Rights Act, since during such a period some
blacks, somewhere must have still been ‘‘oppres-

Miss Thompson goes even further, by denounc-
ing Washington and Lee as the most racist school
in the nation. The claim is almost too absurd to
address, given the numerous benefits W&L ex-
tends to blacks, including a Dean whose sole pur-
pose is to promote their interest. Surely Miss
Thompson owes the University an apology.

The recent hysterics surrounding off-the-cuff
remarks by Al Campanis and Jimmy ‘‘The
Greek’’ Snyder, not to mention the mindless rant-
ings of the Phi’s own sports editor on the subject,
illustrate how increasingly asinine the definition
of what is ‘‘racist’’ and ‘‘insulting to blacks’’ has
become. As the MSA’s actions prove, almost any-
thing at all relating to race, even in the most roun-
dabout way, will be denounced as racist.

Not everyone will be satisfied with any FD
theme. But immature reaction by self-important
interest groups does nothing to improve the Fancy
Dress tradition, nor does it seriously address the
question of race relations. The sad irony is that
many people at W&L are thrilled with MSA’s de-
cision to boycott.

J. Tucker Alford °89

 

 

To the Editors:

I write with utter disgust at the unfortunate
scenario which has developed in response to the
theme of the 1988 Fancy Dress Ball: The Recon-
ciliation Ball.

Fancy Dress and, in particular, this year’s
theme represent the pinnacle of unity at Washing-
ton and Lee. It is the only event in which Law
School and Undergrad, Faculty and Students,
Greek and Independent, North and South come
together as one in a night of revelry. Robert E.
Lee, our noble and revered father (or is he any-
more?), not only led forces under the flag of
Southern pride and tradition but also spent the last
five years of his life at this school working to rec-
oncile the North and the South. I am sure if the
great General were alive today that he would hear-
tily approve of this year’s theme.

I find the banning of the Confederate flag at an
event which stresses reconciliation abominable
especially at W&L which has so much Southern
tradition. The Confederate flag is abused by a few
as is the United States flag misused by some indi-
viduals.

I find the attitude of those few students of the
MSA childish but the encouragement by some
administrators deplorable. I am also exceedingly
disappointed in those administrators that have al-
lowed roughly a dozen people to hamper and ma-
nipulate the setting for 2500+ people. It is an in-
sult and a shame to the Student Activities Board
and especially the Fancy Dress Committee to en-
dure this treatment after so much hard work and
planning. I suppose winter has finally arrived in
hell now that General Lee’s college is too embar-
rassed, ashamed or spineless to hang the confed-

erate flag.
F, Evans Schmidt ’88

To the Editor:

In response to this year’s Fancy Dress Ball, we
respectfully submit our top ten themes that are
better than that of ‘*‘Reconciliation.’’

 

 

LETTERS

Student reactions to FD theme and MSA boycott

1. The imprisonment of Japanese-Americans dur-
ing WWII
2. The Challenger Disaster
3. 8-track tapes
4. The Holocaust
5. The Bubonic Plague
6. A night with the Osmond Family
7. Tornado attacks on trailer parks
8. ‘‘Saturday Night Fever’’—The Disco Era
9. Gerrymandering
10. The McCarthy Trials
Sincerely,
Matthew C. Pross ’90
Scott Mayer ’89
John Ryle Lawson III *89
Charlie T. Gay ’89

 

 

® ane

To the Editor: ~§

It’s a shame when an important segment of the
student body chooses to boycott an event as im-
portant to Washington and Lee University as the
Fancy Dress Ball, but to do so is certainly your
prerogative.

Why though? If I’m not mistaken, the end of the
Civil War signified a great step for black Ameri-
cans, a step towards freedom. You say that the
basis for your boycott is that the theme is ‘‘set in a
period in which blacks were oppressed,”’ but by
that basis couldn’t you conceivably be offended
by any American theme set in the nineteenth or
even much of the twentieth century? Furthermore,
to state that Washington and Lee is the most racist
in the country simply by virtue of an innocuous
party theme is incredibly off-base, not to mention
ridiculous and sad.

You’re quite right, though, that blacks contri-
bute a lot to W&L. You are very important to the
school. So is Fancy Dress. Your presence will be
missed there.

Have a nice weekend.

Lee Fleming
Class of 90

 

 

Dear Miss Thompson:

As a member of ‘‘the fraternity’ of which you
made reference to in last week’s edition of the
Ring-tum Phi, I would cordially like to extend to
you an invitation to accompany me to this year’s
Old South Ball.

Fraternally,

William I. Crabill *89

P.S.—Do you think that you can find a hoop skirt
large enough to clothe your predjudices?

To the Editors:

As the founder and president of the newly
formed ‘‘Northerners cutting off their noses to
spite their faces association’’ it is my responsibi-
lity to express our anger at the rumor that the dec-
orations for Fancy Dress are 51 percent Southern
and 49 percent Northern. Regardless of who our
dates are or how good the band is, we cannot pos-
sibly enjoy ourselves at this ‘Old South’’ ball and
thus we are boycotting.

D. Harding Martin

 

 

Thanks for PUSH help

The University Community:

The Brothers of Pi Kappa Phi would like to
thank the SAB, the Ring-tum Phi and all those
who participated in the three-on- three tournament
this past Sunday. The event was a tremendous
success, raising $450 for PUSH (our national
fraternity’s charity). In addition, the day produced
some exciting basketball as the Championship
Game went into triple overtime with the team of
Range/Anderson/Hawkins (West Regional
Champs) pulling out a 25-23 heart-stopper over
the Southeast Champs Hart/Gallivan/‘‘Pollock.”’
In other action, the East Regional Champs Aber-
nathy/Barton/Milling took third place over the
Midwest Regional Champs Dur-
ant/Gilbert/Martin, rounding out the Final Four.

Next year we hope to expand the tournament to

, 4 three-point shootout and a women’s bracket as

a field of sixty-four teams! Also, we hope to have

well. Thanks again for your support. We'll see
you next year on the ‘‘Road to Lexington.”’

Sincerely,

E.G. Allen {¢

President: Pi Kappa Phi

Gaines misunderstanding |

To the Editor:

The article on law students in Gaines Hall in
your last issue was missing some important facts. |*
The Phi reported that ‘‘a misunderstanding appar-
ently occurred between Washington Hall and the
Law School’’ concerning housing policy on
Gaines Hall. This is wrong because there was |*
first, a misperceptionof*policy in Washington
Hall and second, almost zero communication
from Washington Hall to the Law School regard-
ing the housing policy. ‘

There was no misunderstanding between the
Law School and the administration. The fault lay
entirely with the administration in Washington
Hall. Dean Ruscio believed that the policy to ex-
clude law students from Gaines Hall had been in
place before he became dean. He therefore turned p
away all law student inquiries about Gaines Hall.
In an interview with second year E.C. Rep. Dave
Nave and the Law News, Ruscio admitted that [s
even if law students had applied before the dead-
line, they would not have been allowed in Gaines
Hall. Clearly this inaccurate statement of policy
originated in the administration and not in the law
school as was implied by last week’s article.

Dean John admitted in an interview last week |¢
with the Law News that there was a lack of com-
munication between himself and Dean Ruscio on
the subject of law student housing in Gaines Hall. |«
John stated that Gaines had always been viewed as
an undergraduate housing facility. Dean John got
the impression that law students wanted to live
away from undergrads in Gaines Hall next year,
in large part because he received no information
about law student interest in Gaines. This
strengthened his view of Gaines as a purely
undergraduate housing facility.

However, the perception of law student’s lack
of interest originated in the failure of the adminis-
tration to communicate with the law school about
the housing policy. No one was ever asked what
law students’ needs were. Even Frederic Kirgis,
Dean of the Law School, was not told about the
housing policy until questioned by the Law News.
A second breakdown of communication extended
to the failure to send notices or housing applica-
tions directly to law students as had been the cus-
tom in the past. Instead, applications were left in
an obscure location and went almost unnoticed
from November until after the deadline in Jan-
uary. That is the fault of the sender.

Dave Nave deserves some credit for clearing up
this situation. After Nave brought the policy to. the
attention of the E.C. and the E.C. notified Presi-
dent Wilson and Dean John, the situation was
remedied in one afternoon. I must compliment the
administration for the speed and effort that was
exerted to clear up their mistake. The administra-
tion also plans to conduct a housing survey of law
students similar to the extensive survey of under-
graduates a few years ago. However, since many
law students were turned away by Dean Ruscio’s
office, few law students will live in Gaines next
year and law students living on campus will be
housed in their own dorm.

Unlike other law schools at larger universities
in larger cities, W&L’s law school must depend
upon the university for extracurricular and social
activities—this includes housing. More important
is the realization that law students at W&L are a
more significant part of the university than they
are at other law schools. Law students make up an
integral part in the Honor System and are involved
in almost every other activity on campus. I hope
that the housing policy will not lead to a division
of the university.

Tony Jones

86, 89L
Associate Editor
The Law News

 

 
NEWS/OPINION

To the Editor:

community.

and if so, in what manner.

tion of the ‘‘Honor System.”’

 

White Book revisions

On February 22, 1988 the Executive Committee
formally selected and charged the White Book
Revisions Committee. The charge to this commit-
tee is to examine the philosophy and procedure of
the present ‘‘Honor System’ as set forth in the
White Book, in relation to the present university

This committee will be actively seeking from
the Washington and Lee Community (students,
faculty, and administration) your opinion as to
whether the ‘‘Honor System’’ as presently im-
plemented by the White Book should be revised,

The White Book states clearly that our honor
system ‘‘is based upon the principle of mutual
trust’’ which enables this the value of the philo-
sophical and moral principles upon which our
honor system has developed. However, systems
that govern human interaction need to be flexible
to rapidly changing environments, while still re-
taining the principles upon which they are foun-
ded. With these thoughts in mind, this committee
urges all members of the Washington and Lee
community to become involved in this examina-

LETTER

future.

The Executive Committee appointed thirteen
members of the student body to this committee to

gather the opinion of the community, and to then
present to the Executive Committee it’s recom-
mendations. To facilitate the gathering commun-
ity opinion, the White Book Revisions Committee
will place suggestion boxes in the Co-op, the
undergraduate library, and the ARA lounge of the
law school. All written suggestions offered to the
committee will be kept fully confidential, so as to
encourage an open and candid exchange of ideas.

In addition, the committee is planning an Open
Forum to facilitate discussion about the Honor
System and gain further insight into the communi-
ty’s perspective of the system’s philosophy and
procedure. Through this forum the committee will
present a summary of proposed revisions and then
open discussion to all interested members of the
Washington and Lee community. The forum will
be held March 9, 1988 at 7-9 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Recognizing that many Alumni will be return-
ing to Lexington this weekend for the 81st Fancy
Dress, we also invite your comments and sugges-
tions regarding this very important issue.

The White Book Revisions Committee formally
extends an invitation to the Washington and Lee
community to become actively involved in the
discussion and contemplation of what our Honor
System is presently, and what it should be in the

Respectfully,
John M. Falk and
Richard Tomkins, Chairmen

 

Senior’s time
for pictures

running short

By Alice Harrell
Staff Reporter

 

For the past few months now, the
sign-up sheet in the Co-op for senior
class pictures has remained blank.
Only within the last week have three
or four groups signed up to have their
senior group pictures taken. For the
rest, time is running out.

Apparently, the general impression
is that the pictures will not be taken
until sometime Spring Term, so peo-
ple think they have plenty of time. In
fact the pictures may have to be taken
by the end of Winter Term, leaving
the seniors barely five weeks to have
their picture taken.

There is no guarantee that photog-
rapher Patrick Hinely: will be able to
take pictures as late as Spring Term,
according to’ Courtney Harpold.
Hinely is signed up to take pictures no
later than March 25; his schedule after
that is indefinite.

‘If these people just blow it off un-
til Spring Term, they may not have a
chance,”’ said Harpold.

The longer the seniors wait, Har-
pold added, the less time there will be
available to reschedule another time in
case the weather turns bad on the set
date. This goes for fraternity group
pictures as well.

There is an alternative. Seniors may
get together and take their own group
pictures themselves, if they feel that
signing up with the professional pho-
tographer is too much of a burden.
While Hinely’s camera will be
able to take in a broader picture with
perhaps finer quality, there is nothing
wrong, says Harpold, with taking
your senior picture yourself.

Just be sure to have it labeled, with
each person’s name and class, in the
order according to their positions in
the picture. Then take it to the Calyx
office upstairs in the University
Center.

For those seniors who would prefer
to have their picture taken profession-
ally, they are advised to sign up as
soon as possible on the sheet posted
behind the candy/snack shelves in the
Co-op. If they wait much longer they
may not have any senior group pic-
tures in next year’s Calyx at all.

Philosophy
lecture held

_ From Staff Reports

 

Georges Rey, professor of philoso-
phy at the University of Maryland,
will deliver two lectures at W&L
Wednesday and Thursday, March 9
and 10. Both lectures are open to the
public.

‘*How to Make a Mind,”’ is the to-
pic of Rey’s first lecture, which he
will present Wednesday at 8 p.m. in
Room 9 of Newcomb Hall. On Thurs-
day at 3 p.m. he will speak on ‘*Sensa-
tional Sentences’ in Room 318 of
Tucker Hall. Rey will also be meeting
with students during his two-day visit
to the campus.

Rey’s interests are in philosophy of
mind, computationalism, and artificial
intelligence. He received his B.A.
from the University of California at
Berkeley, and his Ph.D. from Har-
vard.

W&L’s Cognitive Science Commit-
tee is sponsoring Rey’s visit to the
campus.

 

 

Election

() Continued from page 1

the allocation of funds to different
campus organizations. He also thinks
his experience as a law student is im-
portant as the vice-president is the
EC’s technical advisor in both open
and closed hearings.

 

Sophomore Chris Giblin said he
takes pride in his belief in the Honor
System and his experience as an EC
representative this year. Like Finkel-
stein, Giblin said he is concerned with
the budget, especially during Mock
Convention years. He also said he
‘twould serve as a liaison between the
students and the administration.’’

Juniors David Grove, Alston Par-
ker, and Edward Yu are vying for EC
Secretary. Grove began his speech

stating the importance of involvement
in campus activities. He thinks activi-
ties provide a ‘‘network of communi-
cation’ necessary for representing the
student body.

Parker said she thinks involvement
in extracurricular activities is impor-
tant to the position of secretary. She
said she will rely on a ‘*good working
knowledge of the campus’”’ as qualifi-
cation for the job.

Yu said one of his main goals is to
work as a team with the president and
vice-president for a successful EC. He
thinks he not only has an obligation to
serve the W&L student body but also
the Honor System itself.

The elections will be held on Mon-
day, March 7. Finkelstein said it is
important for all of the student body to
vote in order to make the Honor
System work. The elections on Mon-
day will be followed by the run-off
elections on Thursday, March 10.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1988

 

FD

Cj Continued from page 1

concern that the theme has racial over-
tones.

Thompson said several friends on
the SAB told her of the theme when
she returned to school after February
break. After confirming the theme,
she said she tried to contact O’Brien
several times. However, the SAB was
unable to meet with MSA until Wed-
nesday, Feb. 24, said Thompson.

Liz Smith, a member of the SAB,
met with MSA officials Wednesday
afternoon and the MSA held an emer-
gency meeting Wednesday night to
vote on the issue, said Thompson.

Anece McCloud, Associate Dean of
Students, said, ‘Liz Smith contacted
me after she heard of the possibility
that the minority students may want to
boycott. She came in and was very
sincere in her efforts to determine if
there was anything at all that could be
done that could turn the decision
around.”’

McCloud said the SAB was willing
to make several specific concessions
including cancelling the SAB orders
for costumes, not displaying the con-

EC

CJ Continued from page 1

the articles into the computer himself
before giving them to the News-
Gazette, which prints the magazine.

The Political Review is expected to
come in well under budget.

The Film Society is also expecting
to be under budget for this year. They
reported good attendance, 150-200
people per weekend, at their past
showings. They have three movies
scheduled for the rest of the year, and
plan to add another, as yet unnamed
movie to the list.

Fencing Team Captain Eduardo
Gonzalez reported that the club’s
season is over, although practice will
continue for the rest of the year. The
club fielded a women’s team this year,
which he said did ‘‘better than expec-
ted.’’

 

 

 

Parade to highlight convention;
entire community will be included

 

From Staff Reports

 

One of the highlights of the 1988
W&L Mock Democratic Convention
will be a parade through Lexington on
March 25.

Plans are already well under way to
ensure that the entire area is rep-
resented in the event.

Rick Clawson, a W&L senior and
Co-chairman of the Parade Commit-
tee, said that the parade is one of the
best ways to bring Rockbridge
County, the City of Lexington, and
W&L together.

‘*The parade features many of the
area’s outstanding bands and march-
ing units,** said Clawson. ‘‘We’ve
met with a large number of commun-
ity business and educational leaders to
obtain their suggestions. Their ideas
have been very helpful towards our
planning.”’

While many of the details have
already been completed, the Parade
Committee wishes to emphasize that it
is continuing to take applications from
all groups and organizations interested
in participating in the event, said
Frank Kannapell, also a senior and the
parade’s other chairman.

‘*We’ve had an excellent response
so far,‘‘ said Kannapell. ‘‘But we
want to make sure that everyone has

EC forms committee

to study honor revisions

From Staff Reports

The 1988 White Book Revisions
Committee is sponsoring an open
forum for the university commun-
ity—students, faculty, and administra-
tion—to discuss the state of the Honor
System and any suggested changes in
the White Book.

The forum will be held March 9
from 7 to 9 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The 13 members of the committee
were appointed by the Executive
Committee of the student body to
gauge the current student body opin-
ion of the Honor System and to rec-
ommend suggested changes in the
White Book.

**The committee members realized
that one method of determining stu-
dent opinion was to have an open
meeting, at which any student could
come forward with ideas for improv-
ing the White Book,”” said John Falk,
co-chairman of the committee.

‘*We’ve already received sugges-
tions from students and committee
members about possible changes in
the White Book,”’ Falk said. ‘‘But we
want to be sure we allow the entire
W&L community the opportunity to
be heard.”’

The first part of the forum will al-
low the White Book Revisions Com-

 

mittee to state their purpose and to
summarize some of the changes which
have been proposed.

Following that, discussion will be
opened to those in attendance.

The White Book pamphlet sets out
the procedures and guidelines of the
Washington and Lee University
Honor System. The current Honor
System has its roots in the policies set
by Gen. Robert E. Lee when he be-
came president of Washington Col-
lege in 1865. He did away with the
rulebook which was then in existence
and asked only that students behave as
gentlemen, and that they not lie, cheat
or steal.

The earliest dated White Book in the
University Library Special Collec-
tions was prepared by the 1968-69
Executive Committee. This four-by-
five inch, 19-page booklet set out
many procedural rules which form the
basic structure of the system as it
exists now.

Revisions committees have been
formed every four or five years during
the past two decades, according to EC
president Brad Root.

The current revisions committee
was appointed in February and will
present its suggestions to the Execu-
tive Committee for approval at the be-
ginning of Spring Term.

 

an opportunity to participate. The par-
ade only happens once every four
years.””

Kannapell also said the Parade
Committee would like to borrow or
rent flatbed trailers from some of the
area’s farmers for use as floats by the
state delegations.

Clawson and Kannapell said that
anyone with a trailer or with an inter-
est in participating in the parade may
contact them by sending the informa-
tion to: Parade Committee, W&L
Mock Convention, PO Box 1559,
Lexington, VA 24450, or by calling
the Mock Convention office at
463-8579.

The deadline for registration is
March 18.

 

federate flag, and not using a planta-
tion scene as a decoration.

According to O’Brien, the SAB has
made these changes to the decorations
despite the MSA boycott.

McCloud, John and Wilson all
agree that the suggestion that the
deans have approval of the theme is
not the best solution to the problem.

‘The structure at Washington and
Lee is one that gives the student max-
imum autonomy, especially in terms
of student activities,’’ said McCloud.

‘I do not really think that the ad-
ministration will elect to dictate to the
Student Activities Board what themes
it can or can not use.’’

McCloud suggested that a member
of the MSA, in addition to any minor-
ity students who are already members
of the SAB, be appointed to the SAB
each year to preclude a similar situa-
tion from occurring.

O’Brien said that no minority mem-
bers applied to become a member of
the SAB last year.

Despite the boycott, several mem-
bers of MSA plan to attend Fancy
Dress.

Richard Bayton, a member of MSA,
said ‘‘it must be a personal choice.”
Bayton says he supports the MSA’s

right to boycott, but plans to go ‘‘be-
cause the overall theme itself is not
offensive to me.”’

‘The idea of theme itself was stupid
and ill thought-out,’’ said Bayton, and
thinks that the SAB didn’t consider all
of the possible ramifications of the
theme that other MSA members find
more offensive.

Bayton said that the MSA’s vote to
boycott the ball was ‘‘a majority vote,
but not a unanimous vote.”

**Many of us feel like we are betray-
ing the MSA, but, at the same time,
we can’t betray our personal feelings.

**W&L is not the most racist college
in the South. Like all colleges, W&L
has some sectors of racism. But it’s
wrong to slander the many just to get a
few,”’ said Bayton.

“‘It should be up to each individual
as to whether or not it bothers him and
whether or not he wants to go,’’ he
said.

Wilson stressed that he hopes some-
thing positive will come out of the
boycott and theme controversy. He
hopes that W&L students will become

more sensitive to issues that may have
racial overtones.

“‘T hope we can learn from it. I think
we have already learned from it.’’

Soviets to study at W&L

By Andy Nixon
Staff Reporter

 

Through participation in a new
international collegiate exchange pro-
gram, three students from the Soviet
Union will enroll at W&L next year.

This new exchange comes through
the efforts of a consortium of small
liberal arts colleges, mostly located in
the Northern United States.

In its first year, the consortium ini-
tiated the idea of Soviet students
travelling to the United States to
study. Upon hearing of the program,
W&L contacted the group, expressed
interest in participating, and now will
receive three Soviet students.

W&L is the only southern college
participating and is also receiving the
most students from the Soviet Union
out of all the other colleges.

The goal of the program, according
to Professor Bidlack, who heads the
program, ‘‘is to integrate the students
as fully as possible.’’ As of now the
University has no idea who the stu-
dents are. This is left to the agency
coordinating the trip within the Soviet
Union, but certain elements of their
stay are currently known.

The students will live on campus
with American students, rather than
with each other. The students are
already enrolled in Soviet universities
and will enter as juniors here at W&L.
Regarding their curriculum, one-half
of the courses they select must be in
the liberal arts. They must take one
computer course, and the rest is up to
them. They can compete in any sports
or other extra-curricular activities
they wish.

As a result of participation in this
program, three to six students from
W&L will have the opportunity to
spend either a semester or year in the
Soviet Union during the 1989-1990
academic year. Details of this pro-
gram are as of yet unavailable.
Anyone wishing information or poten-
tial requirements of this counter-
exchange program should contact
Professor Bidlack of the history de-
partment.

The exchange of faculty and indivi-
dual experts between the United States
and the Soviet Union has existed since
the late 1950s, but this exchange is the
first program involving undergra-
duates, or in the words of Professor
Bidlack, ‘‘students just beginning
their academic initiative.’’

 

SBAR

 

C) Continued from page 2

Throw away your porno stash
Them magazines are devil’s trash

Inspired as I was by the Reverend’s
lecture I have formed my own min-
istry. Please send me all your worldly
possessions.

My last article was about date rape.
Two weeks after it was published the

 

Geting a Rolrtes Shek fs More
fom then going out wath you.

 

Greet Dinner. Too had

you Bd vse tivommie

At least you could have

wsed a glass or the usine

Give me a Areak. T need

to pet the heer

 
 

Sust dont puke On my shoe

6 les on

bere we ger into the ght, \

whole freshmen class was required to
attend a Date Rape Seminar. I’m sure
this was a coincidence, but just in case
I apologize if anyone is required to at-
tend an Evangelist Appreciation Sem-
inar.

Please tune in the week after next.
The Ring-tum Phi staff now lets me
write an article every two weeks.
Newspaper sales are down 25 percent
since I started writing for the Phi (and
it’s free!)

For my next article: What happens
when a W&L evangelist graduate is
running for president.

@

 
  
   
 

 

 

Guess whet ’ Tim | home
, Waith your roomate

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1988

Lee’s brigade

There will be a general meeting
for all those interested in joining
the Liberty Hall Volunteers,
W&L's Civil War Reenactment
Group, in Fairfax Lounge at 7
p.m. Wednesday March 9. This
will be a short meeting to introduce
prospective members to the group.
For information call John Hamil-
ton or David Burns at 463- 1149.

Nicaragua

On Thursday, March 10th at 4
p.m. in Lee Chapel there will be a
discussion of the situation in Ni-
caragua and the recent attempts in
the U.S. House and the Senate to
pass a Contra Aid bill. The pane-
lists will include Professor Bruce
Herrick, chairman of the W&L
economics department, Asst.
Professor of History David Parker,
Professor William Geimer of the
W&L Law School, Loren Craner,
a Legislative Assistant for Senator
John McCain (Rep.-Ariz.), and
Dr. Turner, chairman of South
American studies at VMI.

The varying perspectives each of
the panelists possesses will provide
unique insight to students in terms
of the economic, historic, political
and military aspects of U.S. in-

volvement in the war between the
Contras and the Sandinista
government. The format for this
and future forums will be to allow
each of the invited speakers to brie-
fly present their perspectives of the
presented issue, and then open dis-
cussion between the panelists and
the audience. The format is inten-
ded to be free and open so as to en-
courage audience participation in
these exchanges.

All students, faculty and those
interested in the community are
welcome to attend. Questions and
responses to remarks are encour-
aged.

Third opera

The Metropolitan Opera’s new
production of Richard Wagner's
Siegfried will be broadcast live on
Saturday, March 5, at 12:30 p.m.
over WLUR-FM (91.5). The
broadcast time is one and one-half
hours earlier than usual.

Siegfried is the third installment
in the Met’s new production of the
complete cycle of ‘‘Der Ring des
Nibelungen.”’

Hildegard Bhrens will sing
Brunnhilde, Horst Hiestermann, in
his Met broadcast debut, as Mime,
Hans Sotin as the Wanderer,
Gwendolyn Bradley as the Forest
Bird, Anne Gjevangas Erda, Ek-
kehard Wlaschia, in his broadcast

 

eneral Notes

debut as Alberich, and John Ma-
curdy as Fafner. The singer for the
role of Siegfried will be announced
at a later date. James Levine will
conduct.

People listen

Shearson Lehman Hutton will
hold a group presentation on Sun-
day, March 6, 7:00 p.m. at Alumni
House. Interested seniors and jun-
iors are invited.

Booklet

General meeting on Tuesday,
March 8 at 7 p.m. in Room 113.
Booklet Comm. meets at 6:30 p.m.
Schedule is underway!

Ben Hur

**Ben Hur’’ (US, 1959, dir. Wil-
liam Wyler, starring Charlton Hes-
ton, Stephen Boyd, Hugh Griffith,
Jack Hawkins, 25,000 extras) will
run at 7:30 p.m., Fri.-Sat.,
3/11-12, 203 Reid. Sponsor: Poli-
tics Dept. Public invited. Only
winner of 12 Oscars plus Best Film
by British Film Academy. Over |
million feet of film, 5 years of pro-

duction and exhaustive efforts at
technical and historical accuracy
yielded Wyler’s magnum opus, a
truly epic passion play. No en-
trance during the famous ‘‘Horse
Race’’ scene will be permitted.
Don’t miss this classic saga of bi-
blical proportions.

Activities fair

Please submit Student Activities
Fair information sheet to Mary
Alice McMarrow’s dorm counse-
lor mailbox outside the Dean of
Students’ Office A.S.A.P.

Write stuff

Rolling Stone and Smith Corona
are proud to announce the 13th
Annual College Journalism Com-
petition, recognizing excellence
among today’s college writers. The
category winners will receive
$1,000 each from Rolling Stone
and electronic typewriter products
from Smith Corona. At the judges’
discretion, a Grand Prize of $1,500
plus a Smith Corona product may
be awarded.

Rolling Stone editors will judge
the entries. Categories are: Enter-
tainment Reporting (profiles and
news features on music, film and

personalities); Essays and Criti-
cism (analytical, evaluative or
interpretive compositions on any
subject); and General Reporting
(any subject).

All entries must have been pub-
lished in a university or college
newspaper or magazine between
April 1, 1987 and April 1, 1988.
Each entrant must have been a full-
or part-time student in an accre-
dited university or college during
the school year in which his or her
entry was published.

Entries must be received by June
3, 1988. Mail entries to: College
Journalism Competition, Rolling
Stone, 745 Fifth Avenue, New
York, NY 10151.

Revise it

The White Book Revisions
Committee is presently reviewing
the contents of the White Book and
would like your suggestions. All
suggested changes should be made
in written form and submitted to
the Committee in University
Center. The Committee meets
Mondays at 8:00 p.m.

Art Mag

The deadline for Ariel submis-
sions has been extended until

Monday, March 7. Please leave
poetry, short fiction, photography
and artwork at Carol Calkins office
in the University Center. Don’t
miss your chance to see your name
in print!

Thanks

The Soc/Pol class would like to
thank those who filled out the coe-
ducation survey. If there are any
students who still have the survey,

please return it to Prof. Novack’s ,

mailbox or the box in the register’s
office. Also if anybody needs a

survey please see Prof. Novack or ,

a member of the Soc/Pol Research
Methods Class.

Explosive

The fireworks display at Fancy
Dress will begin at the conclusion
of the ball (approximately 12:40
a.m.). The SAB promises this to be
the biggest fireworks display ever
seen in Lexington and urges all

those who attending the dance to —

remain for the display.

Back door

Attention to Faculty and Staff: The
SAB has set up an facul-
ty/staff/alumni _will-call/entrance
line at the left set of doors at the
Warner Center’s main entrance.

 

 

 

Farley wins
y Saliba to lecture on Islam

7th annual

 

7, in Room 327 of the Commerce
School. ‘

At 10 a.m. on Tuesday, March 8, in
Room 28A of Newcomb Hall, Saliba
will speak on ‘‘De-Westernization of
Knowledge in Contemporary Islam.”

Saliba is a graduate of Tulane Uni-
versity,*where he received his A.B.‘
M.A., and Ph.D. degrees. He is thé
author of The Jordan River Dispute,
and numerous other articles, and has
presented papers on a variety of inter-
national topics. i

Last year, Saliba organized ‘‘The
Sacred Rage: Militant Religion and
Political and Social Conflict in Asia,”
the 1987 fall colloquium of the Vir-
ginia Consortium for Asian Studies.
At the consortium, Saliba delivered a
paper“ intéfpreting radical Islam as
part of a worldwide resurgence of re-
ligious militancy.

From Staff Reports

 

Pinney Award

Samir N. Saliba, professor of politi-
cal science at Emory & Henry Uni-
versity, will deliver three lectures at
W&L on the modern Islamic religious
resurgence. The lectures are free and
open to the public.

Saliba will discuss the BBC docu-
mentary, ‘‘The Sword of Islam,’’ at 3
p.m., March 7, in Room 203 of Reid
Hall. The film will be shown six times
before Saliba’s lecture. The times and
dates for the showing are March 1, 2,
and 6, at 7:30 and 9 p.m. in Room 9
of Newcomb Hall.

Saliba will deliver a lecture, ‘‘Radi-
cal Islam and the Secular City: Global
Dimensions of Contemporary Reli-
gious Resurgence,”’ at 8 p.m., March

 

From Staff Reports

 

Mark L. Farley, a senior from
Pittsburgh, has been named the win-
ner of the 1988 Edward L. Pinney
Prize at the university.

The prize is awarded by the Student
Affairs Committee, an organization
composed of students, faculty, and
administrators at W&L.

Awarded for the first time in 1982,
the Pinney Prize was established by
the W&L faculty in memory of the
late Edward Lee Pinney, who was a
professor of politics at W&L from
1963 until his death in 1980. The Pin-
ney Prize recognizes extraordinary
commitment both to personal schol-
arship and to the nurturing of intellec-
tual life at W&L.

Farley, an English and biology

 

 

Baxter Sharp and Klar Yaggi participate in a seminar.

Frosh attend anti-rape seminars

participate in programs concerning the
issue of rape. The women attended a
program entitled ‘‘Rape and Assault
Prevention.’’ Alan Prater, J.D., who
is the president of Safer Self Concepts
organized the program. Prater and
Kathleen Brehony, Ph.D., presented a

 

the issues raised and comments the
men had. Schroer Lamont organized
the programs and was pleased with the
response made by students.

Both programs discussed the in-
volvement of alcohol in all the situa-
tions they had covered, as well as the

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious ,

Accommodations With Superb Service 4

 

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,

There is a growing national con-

 

 

 

‘arley video tape and then encouraged stu- confusion of communication. Such is- Lamb, Veal, Italian And \
major, is a member of Omicron Delta cern for the occurrence of sexual gents to offer comments and une dink to ten tan’s ioctl to ’ ’
Kappa honorary fraternity. He is also abuse on college campuses. The state tions Prater and Brehony discussed Gisieance tape end dasiing wih the Cajun Dishes

chairman of the student recruitment
committee and editor of the W&L
Journal of Science. Farley is president
of the Interfraternity Council and a
member of Sigma Chi social frater-
nity.

Farley is the son of Mr. and Mrs.

of California has passed legislation
requiring universities which receive
tax dollars to form programs that edu-
cate students on prevention and pro-
grams that deal with the occurrence of
abuse, according to Anne C. Schroer
Lamont, Associate Dean of Students.

victims they had helped and the situa-
tions they had encountered. They
offered preventative measures for the
avoidance of such situations for the
students. Many women did raise ques-
tions and an informal discussion fol-

emotional aftermath were also presen-
ted.

The freshmen unable to attend the
organized sessions will attend a man-
datory make-up session, as Dean
Schroer Lamont says an educated

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

   

1 Mil St
Staunten, Va
885-3409

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close
Reservations suggested

 

 

 

: . lowed. : : :
Andrew N. Farley of 942 N. Highland On Washington and Lee’s campus The men of the freshman class par- coo. 1S SO important in
Ave. in Pittsburgh. freshmen were required last week to ticipated in sessions where they “There can’t be any | in simply

viewed a film entitled ‘‘ Without Con-
sent’’ and discussed it afterward. A
student panel prompted a discussion of

educating them on the issue, but there
can be in neglecting to do so,’’ she
said.

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who
are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them in
their physical, mental and spiritual development. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities and be
dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her poten-
tial. College students, teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP
THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is

Paxton to speak in Chapel

 

 

 

W&L awarded Paxton an honorary
Doctor of Letters degree in 1974. He
was elected Phi Beta Kappa while an
undergraduate here.

Before joining the Columbia faculty
in 1969, Paxton taught at the Univer-
sity of California at Berkeley and
SUNY, Stony Brook. He served as
chairman of the history department at
Columbia from 1980 to 1982.

Paxton is the author of numerous
publications, including Parades and
Politics at Vichy (Princeton, 1966),
Vichy France: Old Guard and New
Order, 1940-44 (Knopf, 1972), and
Europe in the Twentieth Century
(Harcourt Brace, 1975, second edi-
tion, 1986).

From Staff Reports

 

Robert O. Paxton, professor of his-
tory at Columbia University, will be
the keynote speaker at W&L’s Phi
Beta Kappa Convocation Monday,
March 7, in Lee Chapel. The convo-
cation will be at noon and the public is
invited to attend.

The title of Paxton’s lecture is
‘*Frogs and Yanks: French and Amer-
ican Stereotypes of Each Other.”’

Paxton, a Lexington native, gra-
duated from W&L in 1954. He was
awarded a Rhodes Scholarship and
received a second B.A. degree and a
master’s from Oxford University. He
earned his Ph.D. from Harvard.

an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sail-
ing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing
and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further infor-
mation write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird, Clover,
S.C., 29710, 803-831-2121.

Don’t Miss The Boat -

Spring Break and summer vacation are almost
here!

 

 

See us for special savings.

21 W. Washington Street

Lexington, Virginia 24450 703-463-7174

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lexington’s
Market |

 

 

Campus Travel Representative a
needed to promote spring break
trips to Florida, Earn money,
free trips, outstanding marketing
experience. Call Inter-Campus
Programs at 1-800-433-7747.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; Andre’2—Bottles
SERVIOT Vv g, Final week to open Student Charge Accounts for this school year! One last time*to CHAMPAGNE......-serseseseeeeseees +++ +00
Lexington, Va. 24450 have bills sent home. Come by this weekend for your complete F.D. weekend needs. Budweiser—12 Pk
Lexington Hardware We carry a complete line of domestic and imported beers, wines and cheeses and Beer ; $5 39
463-2242 Di ee. Have a good wenliiad, CORPO PEK S eRe RE Rete eee eee Ree eee eee Ee nee ow ®
Schweppes
Rout Fancy Dress Weekend Specials BE iiiisinind ck ee
Summer & -Career Opportunities Coors Beer 6-pk., 12-02. cans ........... $2.69 Frusen Gladjen Ice Cream pe.......$1.49 f
ill Train). Ex | r .
es Bicone rate nda Korbel Champagne................. $8.99 Old ElPaso Taco Sauce............... 89° Bacardi
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext. Lays Potato Chips 6-1/4-0z. bag.......... 99° Old ElPaso Taco Shells............. 99° MIXEMS «......sseeeeeseeees waneeeess since OO
495J. Sealtes
Sn Sealtest Sour Cream 16-0z.............. 99° Rib-Eye pense Bartles and James
TYPISTS: Hundreds weekly T-Bone SteaKs........0000000 $3.49 I a, sic idkckincccsisces $2.89
at home! 5 BISA A OL castle eee «ati «9 AIT 10 arene caine
Write: 7 i
P.O. a 17 for over 30 years. Rib Eye Steak ..... compte pntiescaiei $3 ~99r.
Clark, New Jersey 07066

 

 

 

 

AAO NAA AL A LLL LLL LO
The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1988

 

 

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&l

Sophomore Phil Sampson eases over the bar en route to winning the pole vault competi-
tion in the ODAC championships.

 

From Staff Reports

 

Both of W&L’s swimming teams
had impressive showings in their final
preparation before the NCAA Div-
ision IT] National Championships.

The W&L men’s team placed fourth
at the NCAA Division III Regional
meet last Thursday through Sunday in

. Atlanta. It also had one individual and
~' four relays qualify for the national
meet on March 17-19 in Atlanta.

Bobby Matthews

' ...in action vs. PSU.

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Sports Photo

 

 

Coming off an 11-4 season in
which they reached the national
semifinals, the Washington and
Lee lacrosse Generals have come
together well during the pre-
season, according to head coach
Dennis Daly.

After a demanding exhibition
schedule that included scrimmages
against North Carolina, Duke,
Jacksonville and Mount Washing-
ton, Daly said he is pleased with
how his team is progressing.

‘*We’re not at a bad place, ’’ he
said.‘‘We'’re probably _ farther
along than we were at this point
last year.”’

Checking the W&L lineup, the
1988 roster features 23 returning
lettermen, including junior attack-
man John Ware, a second-team all-
America selection last season, and
sophomore defender Reid Camp-
bell, the nation’s only freshman to
earn all-America honors in 1987.

The Generals plan to stick with
the fast-break offense and aggres-
sive defense that earned them the
top spot in the Division-HI rank-
ings for much of the ‘87 season.

On offense, the Generals will no

 

Sophomore David Olson, who had
previously qualified for the NCAAs,
was named Swimmer-of-the-Meet for
his sterling performance, which in-
cluded three W&L school records:
200-yard individual medley, 1:54.28;
100-yard back, 53.9; and 200-yard
back, 1:54.12.

Junior Jeff Bercaw became the fifth
member of the men’s team to qualify
for the NCAAs. The others are: junior
Moose Herring and sophomores
Adam Morgan and Shawn Copeland.

The Generals also qualified their four
relay teams.

““We had a lot of fun and made a lot
of friends at that meet,”’ said head
coach Page Remillard. ‘*I am proud of
the way we swam, including some
swimmers who didn’t qualify for the
nationals. [Senior] Simon Perez, and |
juniors] David Reavy and David Dietz
had personal bests and just missed
qualifying.”’

W&L’s women’s team, the first
W&L women’s team to win an Old

Track takes ODACs

Fifth straight conference title for Generals

Sm
By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Led by senior Andrew White, the
W&L track team captured the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference indoor
title for the fifth straight time Satur-
day, blowing away the competition
and scoring more points than any
other team in ODAC history.

After the meet, White was named
the 1988 ODAC Runner-of-the-Year
in indoor track by the conference coa-
ches, and W&L head coach Norris
Aldridge was named _ conference
Coach-of-the-Y ear.

The Generals dominated the meet
throughout, placing first or second in
12 of the day’s 14 events. W&L ath-
letes won seven events and set three
conference records.

‘Washington and Lee’s total of 165
points was more than enough, as the
122 points scored by Lynchburg Col-
lege left the Hornets a distant second.

White was expected to be the Gen-
erals’ leader, and the 1987 Runner-
of-the-Year in indoor and outdoor
track did not disappoint. He set a con-
ference record in the 55-meter high
hurdle preliminaries, smoking the
competition in 7.7 seconds. In the fin-

Swimmers perform well at Regionals

Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship, finished sixth in the region-
als.

Sophomore Kris Amoroso and
freshman Rachelle Nock broke the
ODAC-best times in the 200-yard
breaststroke and the 200-yard back-
stroke, respectively.

The women’s team will send junior
Elizabeth Miles and freshman Sharon
Coleman to the NCAA D-III Cham-
pionships, which will be held today
through Saturday in Atlanta.

Tennis drops two in slow start

 

From Staff Reports

 

The W&L men’s tennis team got off
to a tough start; idsing two matches
and winning one in its first week of the
season.

The Generals dropped a 5-3 de-
cision to Penn State at home last Fri-
day and then lost their second match
8-1 at William and Mary on Saturday.
The team bounced back on Tuesday
with a 5-4 win over James Madison in
Lexington.

The main highlight of the first three
matches was the play of sophomore
John Morris. Playing out of the No. 4
singles slot, Morris did not lose any of
his three singles matches. That leaves
Morris’ record for the 1987-88 season
unblemished, as he went undefeated in
the fall season.

The Generals entered the 1988
spring season with great expectations.

W&L, ranked No. 1 in the presea-
son national Division III Intercolle-
giate Tennis Coaches’ Association
(ITCA) poll, return five of six players
from last year’s team, which finished
second in the NCAA Championships
for the second straight year. Four of
those players have already earned all-

doubt be led by Ware, the team’s
points leader in 1987. Joining
Ware on Daly’s front line are
senior Peter Smith, with 18 goals
in W&L’s last eight games of
1987, and freshman standout Mi-
chael Moseman.

The W&L midfield includes all-
conference senior Robbie Staun-
ton, faceoff-man Sandy Harrison
(66 percent in 1987) and sopho-
more Chris Mastrogiovanni. Jun-
ior middies Stuart Geisel and Joe
Caccamo and sophomores Chris
Giblin and Chris Kennedy should
also see action.

The Generals will begin the
season without senior co-captain
Chris Coffland, who is wearing a
cast for a fractured ankle.

The defense will feature four re-
turning starters in Campbell, jun-
ior Michael Jones and sophomores
Michael Nunan and Carlos Millan.
In addition, Daly said freshman de-
fender David Farace should see
playing time.

Senior Paul Burke takes over the
goalie position for W&L, and Daly
said his backups will be senior
Robert Buttarazzi and freshman
Thomas Costello.

W&L’s schedule for 1988 will
really put the pressure on Daly and
his players. In addition to confer-

America honors. On top of that, if
W&L is selected to play in the tour-
nament again, the Generals will have
the opportunity of playing for the
national title in front of their home-
town fans. The NCAA Champion-
ships will be held at W&L on May
15-22.

‘*For obvious reasons, we are ex-
cited about this season,’ said head
coach Gary Franke, the 1987 Division
III] Coach-of-the- Year. ‘‘We think we
can improve on last year and, if we
are lucky enough to receive another
NCAA tournament bid, we will play
on our home courts.’

Before they can be considered for
the bid, W&L must play a fierce
schedule that includes: 10 D-I foes;
four D-II opponents, including two
top-five teams (Rollins and Hampton
University; tow top-five NAIA
schools (Flagler and North Florida);
and three D- III teams ranked in the
top 13 in the nation. Two of the *‘big”’
D-III matches pit W&L against No. 6
Swarthmore and No. 2 Washington
College at Swarthmore on March 26
and 27.

Leading the way this year are two
senior all-Americans, David McLeod
and Chris Wiman, who have rep-

 

 

 

 

John Ware

ence games against Roanoke,
Hampden-Sydney and Randolph-
Macon, the Generals will face

D-III powers Hobart, Washington
College and Ohio Wesleyan and
D-I teams Virginia and VMI

But Daly is nevertheless optimis
tic. “If we find the right chem
istry, we will be every bit as suc
cessful as last year,’’ he said

 

resented W&L at the NCAAs in all
three of their years on the team.
McLeod earned his all-America hon-
ors in singles in 1985 and in doubles
last year. Wiman became an all-
American in 1985 as a doubles.player.

The rest of the General’s lineup is
just as impressive. Junior Robert
Haley, W&L’s No. | singles player,
also won all- America recognition in
singles last year and is ranked No. 3 in
the preseason ITCA poll. Junior Bo-
bby Matthews. a 1987 all- American
in singles and doubles, will play No. 2
singles and is ranked No. 4 in the
nation.

McLeod and Wiman, who will
serve as co-captains, are the No. 3 and
No. 5 players, respectively.

Morris, an all-conference player
with a 21-5 record last season, will
play at No. 4. Freshman Bill Mea-
dows won the No. 6 singles position.

In doubles, McLeod and Matthews,
who reached the semifinals of last
year’s championships and had a 23-2
record, have been recognized by the
ITCA preseason poll as the No. 1
team in the nation. Morris and Wi-
man, who had a 23-4 record as the
No. 3 doubles team in 1987, move up
as the General’s No. 2 tandem.

PREVIEW:

als, White's time of 7.8 seconds was
more than enough to give him first
place.

White came back moments later and
won his second conference title with a
time of 52.6 seconds in the 400-meter
run,

But even before winning those two
events, White helped the Generals to
their first win of the day. In the
400-meter relay, he combined with
classmate John White, sophomore
Wes Boyd and freshman Erik Adkins
to set a new ODAC indoor record of
44.9 seconds.

Boyd also won an individual event,
taking first place in the 55-meter dash
with a time of 6.6 seconds.

In the distance events, W&L junior
Jamie Urso broke the two-minute
mark to take first place in the 800
(1:59.7). W&L senior James Buquet
placed second.

The Generals also took second,
third and fourth in the 1500 and sec-
ond, third, fourth and fifth in the
3000.

Checking the field events, the Gen-
erals scored 17 points and took four of
the top six places in the pole vault. As
expected, sophomore Phil Sampson
won the event and set a new ODAC
record, clearing 14-6. Sampson, who

pam

Count it!

 

set the school record of 15 feet earlier
this month, missed on all three at-
tempts at 15-1.

W&L freshman David Johnston fin-
ished fourth in the pole vault, senior
Joseph Fisher was fifth, and senior
Robert Williamson took sixth place.

Freshman Carl Gilbert was a sur-
prise winner in the long jump, with a
personal best of 21-2.

“It was his first time in the long
jump this year, so I really hadn’t ex-
pected him to do that well,’” said Al-
dridge.

Another surprise was junior Jim
Ambrosini’s performance in the
shot put. Coming off a shoulder in-
jury, Ambrosini took second place in
his first competition this year.

Other scorers for W&L in the field
events were John White, who placed
fourth in the long jump and. triple
jump and sixth in the high jump, and
junior Fray McCormick, who took
third in the high jump.

The Generals will begin their out-
door season with a home meet on
March 18 against Bridgewater, Roan-
oke and Eastern Mennonite. ‘‘If we
can keep everybody healthy,’’ said
Aldridge, ‘‘we should have a good
outdoor season too.”’

 

By Mike Shady/The Ring-tum Phi

Ed Hart goes up for a shot in Sunday’s 3-on-3 championship game of the
PUSH (Play Units for the Severely Handicapped) basketball tournament.
The tournament sponsored by Pi Kappa Phi, raised $450.

 

Lacrosse looks to improve on final 4 finish

Ware leads offense;
Campbell anchors ‘D’

Wahoos will be tough for Generals to handle

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

While most of the student body
is still recovering from FD, the
WAL lacrosse players will travel
to Charlottesville Saturday to begin
their 1988 regular season against
the University of Virginia.

While a victory against the Div-
ision-I Cavaliers will require an
outstanding effort from the D-III
Generals, head coach Dennis Daly
does not want his players to be too
concerned about one game.

‘We're not trying to change our
system to such a degree that it will
undermine our performance later
on,”’ said Daly.

As usual, the Wahoos have
plenty of talent on both ends of the
field.

The goalie position caused all
kinds of problems for Virginia in
1987, but that probably will not be

the case this year. Back in the goal
for the Cavs is senior Peter Shee-
han. A medical red shirt in 1987,
Sheehan won the C, Markland Ke-
lly Award in 1986 given annually
to the best goalie in Division I.

Currently a graduate student,
Sheehan recorded 150 saves and al-
lowed only 94 goals in 14 games in
1986.

Despite a relatively young de-
fense, Daly expects the U-Va. de-
fenders to play the aggressive,
takeaway style of lacrosse the
Cavs’ opponents have come to ex-
pect.

Virginia has always been known
for its strong midfield, and Daly
says this year’s squad continues
that tradition.

“They had a good recruiting
class, and there are some sopho-
mores and freshmen that should
perform quite well,”’ he said.

On attack, the Wahoos are prob-
ably stronger than they were last
year, according to Daly, with

crease attackman Chase Monroe
leading the way.

‘*He’s outstanding,’’ said Daly.
‘*They do an awful lot trying to get
him open.”’

Monroe recorded 39 points (33
goals, six assists) in 13 games for
the Cavaliers in 1987.

Looking ahewi to next week,
W&L’s first home game is also the
team’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference opener. The Generals
will take on Randolph-Macon at 3
p.m. Tuesday on Wilson Field.
Washington and Lee beat the Yel-
low Jackets last year, 15- 11.

LAX FACTS—The Generals lost
to Virginia last season, 16-9, and
then rebounded with 10 wins in a
row.... Virginia head coach Jim
Adams has a 95-36 career record
as he begins his eleventh season in
Charlottesville.... Entering his
fifth season at W&L, Daly is
24-29.... Saturday’s game is the
season opener for both teams

 

 
=BACK PAGE

The article concerning Fraternity
parties on page 15 of last weeks Fancy
Dress Supplement was mistakenly

fraternity parties on Saturday night
Fraternity parties during the Fancy
Dress weekend will be explicitly
CLOSED to all persons other than
brothers, dates, and invited friends.
This weekend’s parties at the Fraterni-
ties WILL NOT BE OPEN. The Ring-
tum Phi regrets any complications or
problems the article might have
called.

In addition, Jim Williams article in
the student perspective section was
laid out improperly. The corrected ar-
ticle should read as follows:

By Jim Williams
WA&L Senior

 

FANCY DRESS— two of the most
popular words that a Washington and

 

misleading as to who could attend the

 

Lee student can utter. The thought
alone brings to mind some of the most
cherished memories I possess. This is,
without a doubt, the most festive acti

vity on the school calendar. In case
you have not experienced Fancy Dress
before, or if you are considering leay

ing for the weekend because you can

not find the right date, please allow
me two minutes of your time.

Make any necessary arrangements
to be in Lexington, Virginia between
the second and the sixth of March,
1988, for these days will provide you
with some of the best fun and fes
tivities that you will experience any
where, anytime. But before this time
arrives, you have one task— that of
finding one individual with whom to
share in the grand splendor of this
eagerly awaited event. If you are a
guy and need a date, check out The
Palms any night before March |, or
better yet, just be seen in public and
you are bound to find some woman
from one of the neighboring colleges

CORRECTIONS

who would gladly give away her Dad-
dy’s BMW to have ‘‘THE BID** ex
tended her way. If you are a girl, blow
some guy's mind and ask him.
Whatever you do, just be there.

The festivities will begin around
Wednesday and run non-stop through
the weekend. People will congregate
at the Pit, at the new Student Activi-
ties Pavilion (for a top-name band, we
hope), at the Warner Center for the
ball itself, and at every location of
campus organization for parties of
every sort. The Fancy Dress experi-
I dare say, will not let you
down. As a senior staring graduation
in the face, I realize that there are in-
numerable things that I will sincerely
miss about my undergraduate years.
Fancy Dress is right around the top of
the list. It is the most eagerly awaited
weekend of the year, as people arrive
from all over the nation simply to ex-
perience this colossal occasion.

Quite frankly, I cannot think of a
better way to spend four or five days

ence,

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1988

and nights. One of the best and most
unique qualities about W&L is the
personable nature of our community.

Fancy Dress is the perfect personifica-

tion of this characteristic. It brings
together everyone who has any tie
with the University for quality cele-
brating. For just a while, the cliques
and the barriers of our social lives are
Stripped away so that we can all enjoy
time together, an otherwise nonex-

istent condition. I hope everyone can
come away from Fancy Dress with the
same satisfaction that I have been able
to enjoy. Grab a date, call some
friends from home, and be sure to find
yourself in Lexington in early March;
for a better time cannot be found.

Fancy Dress— it is the ideal of perfec-
tion to any person seeking self-
Satisfaction as a second major.

Again the Ring-tum Phi apologizes
to Mr. Williams and regrets any in-
convenience the supplement article
may have caused.

 

 

Wes Craven misses again with Serpent

By Joel Miller
Staff Reporter

 

Since he directed Last House on the
Left (1972), Wes Craven has had
something of a difficult time in choos-
ing good movie material.

Last House on the Left was a movie
about some goons who rape two
women. It shows how the women’s
families take revenge on the rapists.
Grand Guignol seemed to be making a
comeback, but the movie didn’t make
a lot of money.

Sure, he made Swamp Thing (1982)
and based it on the then-popular comic
book. He even had Adrienne Barbeau
in it, but it wasn’t much of a box-
office hit. People just didn’t care
about monsters made out of rotten
vegetables.

But, of course, Wes caught on with
his movie A Nightmare on Elm Street.
Something about Freddy Krueger and
his ice-pick fingernails must have
psychologically entranced the movie-
going public—maybe having Dokken
on the soundtrack helped, too. A lot of

blood and a lot of screaming teenagers
equalled a lot of money for Craven.

The Serpent and the Rainbow, |
hoped, would change Craven into a
full-fledged Hollywood director. But
when I found out it was ‘‘based on a
true story’’ I began to wonder: ‘*Cra-
ven can’t make a documentary, he can
only make a flick with lots of blood.”’

As it turned out, The Serpent and
the Rainbow wasn’t much of a docu-
mentary—it was your typical Craven
movie.

A Boston medical corporation sends
an American anthropologist (Bill
Pullman) to Port-Au-Prince, Haiti, to
check out reports about zombies run-
ning around in broad daylight. The
corporation CEOs think that they can
use the ‘‘zombie-making’’ recipe to
save lives and make a lot of money in
the process.

So Pullman rides the plane down to
Haiti and meets a doctor who swears
she can show him some real-life zom-
bies. Pullman doesn’t believe her but
they go and look for a zombie any-
way. They meet some guys who can
practice white (i.e., ‘‘good’’) magic,

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. Windmills of the Gods, by Sidney Shekion. (Wamer, $4.95.)
__ Story of a wornan trapped by intemational conspiracy. —

“2. Calvin and Hobbes, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews, McMee! &
__ Parker, $5.95.) Cartoons about the life of a litte boy.

 

3. ~ 3. The Far Side Observer, by Gary Larson. (Andrews, McMeel, &
cartoons.

Parker, $5.95.) Latest Far Side

 

4. Billy and the

Bootleg, by Berke Breathed. (Little,

___ Brown, $7.95.) Latest Bloom County cartoons.

 

5. Garden of Shadows, by C.V. Andrews. (Pocket, $4.95)
Dollanganger family

__Beginning of the horror that beset the Dol anger far
6. A Season on the Brink, by John Feinstein. (Fireside, $4.50.)

___Indiana University's basketball team during the 1985-86 season. —
7. Catmopolitan, by lene Hochberg. (Pocket, $9.95.) Humorous
| Cosmopolitan

_ look at cats using

magazine as model.

8. Red Storm Rising, by Tom Clancy. (Berkley, $4.95) Russians
_Plan a major assault on the West

9. The Eyes of the King. ( NAL, $450)
yes Dragon, by Stephen ~ ales

= _Enthralling masterpiece of

10. 1 a at Seong
_of South Carolina and the dusty gitter of New York City

Cemotat by he Ova 0 Map Lacan bon reormamen waxed by cfage ere Prmapas te corey Jeary ‘4 168

New & Recommended

A personal setecon of J O Kendal Newcom® Hal Bookstore Une of Vigerae

Love and Work, by Reynolds Price. (Ballantine, $3.50.) Examines the

effect upon one man of his mother's death.

Forrest Gump, by Winston Groom. (Berkley, $3.95) Outrageous,

wacky and funny nuthouse of a book.

The Best Science Fiction of Isaac Asimov, by Isaac Asimov.
(Signet/NAL, $3.95.) Asimov's personal favorites, from humor to horror
fiction.

{o hard science fi

 

The Stonewall Jackson House,
a historic house museum,
Currently hiring
museum shop clerks and guides.

For more information, or to schedule
an interview, call 463-2552, 9-5 M-F.

 

and Pullman gets to see some Haitians
who are possessed. Just when he
thinks he’s catching on, Pullman finds
out that an evil government official is
watching him, so he decides to do a
little ‘“‘undercover work."’

While he’s doing all this detective’

work, Pullman begins to have some
terrifying dreams. For instance, a de-
composing bride keeps following him
around Haiti and trying to kill him
with the snake that’s in her mouth.
Pullman thinks he’s going crazy, but
his doctor friend says, ‘‘It’s only a
dream.”’

Pullman finally gets to meet a zom-
bie in a cemetery, but he doesn’t learn
how it all works, so he goes to a Hai-
tian who can make zombies with all
sorts of herbs and chemicals. The Hai-
tian wants to charge him $1,000 but
settles for $500. In the meantime, the
evil governmental official beats up
Pullman all night and then dumps him
out in the street. ‘‘You should go
home,”’ he says.

Always a glutton for punishment,
Pullman still seeks to get the recipe to
make zombies and finally buys it. But

 

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDWARE STORES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

the police pick him up and send him
back to America. While he’s in Bos-
ton, he starts dreaming that his girl-
friend is in a lot of trouble, so he goes
back to Haiti to save her from the evil
police officer, who’s really a voodoo
king.

When he gets back to Haiti, the
voodoo king turns him into a zombie
and buries him. Pullman looks like
he’s in a lot of trouble. A zombie digs
him up and Pullman goes to save his
girlfriend. She’s about to get her head
cut off when he shows up and he has
to rough up the voodoo king to save
her. He sets the guy on fire and it
looks like the voodoo king is dead, but
you can’t be too sure about these voo-
doo matters, But there is a happy end-
ing.

There’s an awful lot of plot in The
Serpent and the Rainbow, but the spe-
cial effects make it bearable. A lot of
blood and a lot of nasty-looking crea-
tures, so that means a lot of money for
Craven.

Tug would tag this with one star,
but I give it three. Take a date and
scare her (or him) silly. ~

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

 

463-2742

 

 

Calendar

FRIDAY, MARCH 4
§30 p.m.—Fancy Dress Ball. Warner Center.

SATURDAY, MARCH 5 :
12:30 p.m.—OPERA BROADCAST: Wagner's Siegfried. WLUR-FM
(15:

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: LACROSSE: University of Virginia.

SUNDAY, MARCH 6

7 p.m.—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Shearson Leh-
man Hutton, group presentation for interested seniors and juniors. W&L
Alumni House.

MONDAY, MARCH 7

Noon—PHI BETA KAPPA CONVOCATION/LECTURE: ‘‘Frogs and
Yanks: French and American Stereotypes of Each Other,’’ Robert O. Paxton,
Columbia University. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

3 p.m.—LECTURE: On the film, ‘‘The Sword of Islam,”’
Emory and Henry. Room 203, Reid Hall. Public invited.
3:15 p.m.—LECTURE: *‘The Debate About Vichy France,’
ton. Room 9, Newcomb Hall.

4 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘The Confluence of Federal and State Securities Law,”’
Louis Loss, Harvard Law School. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public in-
vited.

4:30 p.m.—FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium.

8 p.m.—LECTURE: *‘Radical Islam and the Contemporary World,’’ Samir
Saliba, Emory and Henry. Room 327, Commerce School. Public invited.

Samir Saliba,

* Robert O. Pax-

TUESDAY, MARCH 8

10 a.m.—LECTURE: ‘“‘Islamic Ideals of Education,’’
and Henry. Room 28A, Newcomb Hall. Public invited.
3 p.m.—MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Radford. Varsity Courts.

3 p.m.—LACROSSE: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon. Wilson Field.

Samir Saliba, Emory

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9

8 p.m.—COGNITIVE SCIENCE LECTURE: ‘‘How to Make a Mind,”
Georges Rey, University of Maryland. Room 9, Newcomb Hall. Public in-
vited.

9-12 p.m.—WEDNESDAY NIGHT AT THE PIT: New Potato Caboose.
$3 cover charge.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASEBALL: Mary Washington.

THURSDAY, MARCH 10

3 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘Sensational Sentences,’’ Georges Rey, University of
Maryland. Room 318, Tucker Hall. Public invited.

3 p.m.—MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Slippery Rock University. Varsity
Courts.

5 p.m.—CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: J. Kirchner ’88. Room 401, Howe Hall.
Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S SWIMMING: NCAA Division III
Championships, Atlanta (through March 12).

 

 

 
 
   
   

      
    
 

 

 

LEXINGTON SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing and Accessories

Winter Merchandise
Y2 Price

23. N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-5988

 

ATTENTION STUDENTS - Four-
bedroom apartment in Lexington.
Across from new dormitory. Fully furni-
shed. Off-street parking for four cars.
$540 a month. Prefer undergraduate fe
males. Call after 6 p.m. 463-7044,

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

Fine Cuisine
IN AN ATMOSPHERE SUPREME

“Over 50 years of quality food”
STEAKS ¢ SEAFOOD ¢ CHICKEN
GREEK & ITALIAN SPECIALTIES

+ CARRY OUTSERVICE
463-3612
OPEN 6 DAYS 8:00 A.M. TC 9:30 Pm,
Closed on Monduy

OTTER

9 TON, VA.

 

MAJOR CREDIT
CARDS ACCEPTEO 373 MAIN

 

 

 

 

 

Shenandoah Limousine Service

(2 limos now available)
in time for;

‘‘Fancy Dress Ball’’
Rsv. call 463-4973 (temp.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

ee ae
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

   
    

directly behind Leggett’s
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

 
   
 
 

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell

  

R.L. HESS & BRO.
JEWELERS

Authorized Seiko Dealer

121 SOUTH MAIN STREET 463-2833

ina at apc so aaars racae nase

Merle. Norman Cosmetics
M-* 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

‘ . a 463-1782
Rt. North 17, price Cosmetic Sale
Manicures Solar Nails
5 visits $29.00
10 visits $49.00
20 visits $89.00

Ist Visit Free
PUEEUTOOUEEEEEEUCEURECEUTEOU CEE EEOTEUEETEEEE ACEO CEROEE EEDA EE EERE E ED EREEEEEEO TEPER EEA

 

 

THE SANDWICH SHOP

Complete Line of:
Sandwiches
Box Lunches
Party Platters
Choose from a variety of menus, and our own prepared
soups and salads.

Mon.-Fri. 11 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Saturday 11 a.m.-5 p.m.

463-2595 29 N. Main St.
Across from Henry St. Piayhouse

¢ ABC License
No. 046503

SL  —
ee eect ee eet ee re el ed et ed ee OO ee ee ee ee ee ee
a i  ————— Ee eee Se 22s... 224.222.

Mock Democratic Convention
Memorabilia Jim Beam Bourbon

On Sale Now at
Virginia ABC Store

Act Quickly
Supplies are very limited

 

Pi i A ee ae ee a

 

CL eS a eS LE SS
et tt BR Pa A A AER AAA A A A A BAO Bt A BR A A A AER Le PAR Be Fe
