f

VOLUME 87, NUMBER 14

d

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

e King-tum Phi

JANUARY 28, 1988

 

 

   
  
     

 

ai
ee

 

W&L’s Board of Trustees will hold their Winter meeting Friday and Saturday.

 

X

 

a.

 

dil Si *
—
ri

Sire

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&I

Trustees to discuss budget
and fraternity renaissance

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-Editor

 

The Fraternity Renaissance Pro-
gram and the University Budget are
among the items that W&L’s Board of
Trustees will discuss at their Winter
meeting, which will be held on cam-
pus Friday and Saturday.

The Board will be given a report on
the Fraternity Renaissance Program,
drawn up by the Fraternity House
Renovation Steering Committee and
presented by President John D. Wil-
son, said Farris Hotchkiss, secretary
to the Board. The report will concen-
trate on the goals set forth in the re-
cently published Washington and Lee
Standards for Fraternities and is one
of the Board’s ‘‘main agenda items.”’

‘‘Also, at this board meeting, the

Board begins looking at next year’s

educational and general budget,’’ said
Hotchkiss. The Board will set
“*general parameters’’ for the budget,
which will be finalized at the Board’s
meeting in May. The Board will also
discuss the University’s endowment
program and the effect of the stock
market crash on the University’s port-
folio, said Hotchkiss.

Construction and development of
the University’s campus and facilities
are also on the agenda. The Board is
expected to tour the recently reno-
vated Alumni house, Gilliam house,
which houses the Admissions office,
and newly-constructed Gaines Resi-
dence Hall. Progress on fund-raising
for the performing arts center will also
be discussed.

Among the other issues set for the
meeting are any faculty summer
leaves or grants, any honorary de-

grees to be presented in June, and any
possible candidates that may be nomi

nated to the Board

J. William McClintock III, Class of
1953, will be sworn in a trustee
during the Board’s meeting. McClin
tock was elected to the Board at its Oc
tober meeting in Williamsburg. His
election brought the number of
trustees to 28. According to Hotchk
iss, there can be no more than 30
members, each who may serve for
two five-year terms, on the board.

as

For the first time on record, the
W&L Board of Trustees will meet
with VMI’s Board of Visitors for a
dinner at VMI’s Moody Hall Friday
evening. The dinner is a result of the
suggestion of Joseph Spivey, current
chairman of VMI's Board and an
alumnus of W&L’s law school. Ac

(See Trustee, page 5

Art show begins Arlington Center’s grand opening

By Jessica Reynolds
Staff Reporter

 

‘‘Development of An Artist’” was
the title of the lecture Kathleen Olson-
Janjie gave Monday night in honor of
the grand opening of the Arlington
Women’s Center at W&L.

Olson, an assistant professor, came
to the university from Louisiana this
year. She teaches drawing and paint-
ing.

Olson is a native of California. She
comes from a family of artists and was
most influenced by her grandmother,
who she spent a lot of time watching
paint, she said.

Counselor
lectures on

alcoholism >

 

By Andy Nixon
Staff Reporter

 

As a featured event during last
week’s drug and alcohol awareness
program, substance abuse counselor
Bob Lynn spoke last Thursday in Lee
Chapel.

Lynn’s program emphasized the
area of addiction to, and new treat-
ment for, drug and alcohol victims.

Beginning the program, Lynn spoke
of his previous battle with alcoholism.

‘*The last thing I ever would have
believed is that I would be an alcoho-
lic,’’ he said. He went on to say, ‘‘The
hardest part is to admit that you have a
problem.’’ He added that in the end,
“‘T was grateful for having admitted to
that problem.”’

Lynn now has been a recovering al-
coholic for ten years, and he told the
audience his reason for coming was,
‘*The more we know about addiction
the better we can help ourselves.”’

Moving to addiction, Lynn cited
studies that revealed ‘‘70 percent of
Americans drink, with one out of sev-
en becoming alcoholics.’

Of those who become alcoholics,
however, Lynn stated that ‘‘the aver-
age alcoholic affects seven other peo-
ple with their alcoholism. *’ Lynn went
through the stages of a developing al-
coholic.

Olson received her B.A. at Ber-
keley, did her graduate study at Pratt
Institute in New York, got her MFA at
Yale and studied in Kasterlee, Bel-
gium.

Her works are on exhibit in the Ar-
lington Center as part of the opening
and can be seen through Feb. 6.

The exhibit is a collection of works
starting from her junior year in high
school continuing through her years of
influence from her travels in Europe.

Olson said that she is glad that she
was chosen to be the first event to
celebrate the opening of the center and
“it is great that the women have a
place they can go now.””

Among those who attended the ex-
hibit was president John Wilson, who
said he was very impressed with OI-
son’s work.

Although it was the president's first
visit to the center, he said he hoped to
visit again.

Wilson felt the center was an asset
for the campus.

‘Everyone needs space to get
together. The fraternity serves that
purpose just as the Chavis House is
available for the minority students and
the International House is available
for the international students,’ he
said.

Wilson said that he supports the

center because ‘‘I am interested in the
programs that interest women and
want to help the transition into coedu-
cation,”’ he said.

“*T think it (the center) will be good
for students off campus and freshman
too. It is a nice place to have,‘ said
Catherine Councill, a junior at the
university.

Councill said she is glad that the
school hired someone like Olson to
teach.

“She specializes in painting and
drawing which are the basic funda-
mentals of art,’’ she said.

“It is a nice alternative to studying
rather than in the library, as well as

 

‘ J
"

Macho men

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

‘The Villiage People’ took the first place $100 prize at Friday’s Lip Syne Contest with ‘YMCA.’ See story, page 4.

**First,’” Lynn said, ‘‘is increased
tolerance,’’ resulting in the drinker
not being able to predict the number of
drinks it takes to reach a level of intox-
ication reached before. Consequently,
drinkers drink more which leads to al-
coholism. A true sign of alcoholism
then arrives, according to Lynn, in the
form of denial.

Denial is progressive, Lynn indi-
cated by saying, ‘*As alcoholism pro-
gresses, denial of a problem gets
stronger. ””

Bias lectures in Lee Chapel

By Francis Coryell
Staff Reporter

 

W&L’s Alcohol and Drug Aware-
ness Week concluded on Friday with
the appearance before a full Lee
Chapel crowd of Lonise Bias.

She is the mother of Len Bias, the
University of Maryland basketball star
who died of a cocaine overdose last
year.

The topics Bias talked about ranged
from peer pressure to AIDS, drugs to
suicide.

Bias approached the topics with a
religious tone. ‘‘I love you through
Jesus Christ. That God took one man
to save others. God has given me
strength for the mission,’’ were some
of the phrases she used in her speech.

Bias often used current songs and
videos to illustrate her points.

Citing the Michael Jackson video,
‘*Bad,”’ in which Jackson refuses to
attack an old man, she warned the au
dience; ‘‘Don’t confuse peer pressure
with friendship.”

She showed peer
brings us down. She then borrowed a
phrase from a Whitney Houston song

how pressure

‘The greatest love of all’’ is the love
for one’s self, she said.

Bias said that love for one’s self tea-
ches us that the material things in
one’s life are unimportant.

‘You have to know who you are,”’
she said. ** Alcohol and drugs are only
the symptoms. ”’

In her speech, Bias mentioned that
during the numerous stops at different
shows, she has met many people who
have faced harder ordeals than her
self. Although she had to bury her son
on national _ television, said
‘There are alweys people in worse
shape.”’

Once kids came up to her mention
ing these problems, she realized that

she

she needed to include other topics in
her seminat. Also, she said those who
have come up to her and thanked her
after her shows have helped her to
keep guing

Afier the speech Bias she
thought more education was needed

said
Drug education should start at home

she said, and parents especially need
to become more educated

See Bias, page 5

Lynn went on to describe the
reasons why a person becomes an al-
coholic. *‘Often a parent was an alco-
holic,’’ Lynn said. He added, ‘40 to
50 percent of children of alcoholics
either become an alcoholic, marry an
alcoholic, or have emotional prob-
lems.”

So what should a friend do?

Lynn said that most friends ‘‘keep
people sick by rescuing the people.”’
The best action a friend can do is get

help.

Lynn mentioned a method of inter-
vention, where all of the friends, fami-
ly and other concerned people con-
front the alcoholic to talk together
about the problem.

He also mentioned the Alcoholics
Anonymous meetings as well as the
ALANON meetings, an organization
for family and friends of alcoholics.
Both of these organizations old regu-
lar meetings in Lexington, and coun-
seling is available in the university or
in the Lexington area.

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Lonise Bias lectures to a crowded Lee Chapel Friday night.

having a place to relax instead of your
own living room,’’ said Alexa Salz-
man, a junior at the university.

Salzman said the center also gives
the women an opportunity to hold
functions and meetings. It is a central
location for a lot of activities, she
said.

Meredith Walker, manager of the
center, said that the opening was set
up to make people more aware of what
the center has to offer.

As part of the events planned for the
center, movies will be shown every
Wednesday night, which should pro-
vide an alternative for women.

Brown Bag Lunch, which Walker

hopes will become a regular feature,
will be held during lunch time to dis
cuss issues on the campus and topics
affecting women.

Walker said that other activities are
being planned but are not definite

She wants to encourage people to
feel free to bring in suggestions.

Groups currently using the center to
hold meetings and receptions are Peer
Counseling, Big Brother/Little Sister,
Trident and the Women’s Faith
Group.

“IT hope that after women are more
aware of what is down here for them,
they will take advantage of it,’’ said
Walker.

Gaines Hall still
nearly completed

 

By Abb Jones
Staff Reporter

 

Last November, Assistant Dean of
Students Ken Ruscio predicted that the
finishing touches on Gaines Residence
Hall -- primarily the completion of the
gatehouse -- would be completed by
Dec.1.

Almost two months have passed
since that deadline, and although
much construction has been completed
since then, Gaines Residence Hall still
remains incomplete.

Assistant Superintendent of Build-
ings and Grounds Scott Beebe said
Tuesday that the gatehouse of Gaines
Hall should be ready for use by stu-
dents within two weeks. He said car-
peting is expected to be put down
within the week and furniture is sche-
duled to be delivered as soon as next
Monday.

The rotunda of the gatehouse, when
completed, will feature several guest
speakers and frequent discussions as
well as serving as a meeting place for
Gaines Hall residents.

Although the gatehouse is still being
finished, many of the building’s ame-
nities — such as an exercise room,
computer room and laundromat — are
in current use by students.

The exercise room, which features
several Nautilus machines, bicycles
and a rowing machine, has proven
quite popular among students, said
Beebe. Ruscio and Beebe both dis-

cussed adding some
ches’’ to the exercise room such as
wall mirrors and benches for the
dressing rooms. Ruscio also men
tioned plans for holding classes on
how to properly use the Nautilus
machines.

Since the beginning of January, the
computer room in Gaines, which is
located on the second floor, has been
put into full use. It now houses five
computers, three of them university
main-frame computers and the other
two IBM PC’s.

Ruscio said he hopes the computer
room will receive more computers in
the future, adding that more com-
puters would be a result of increased
student use, which he expects will
happen.

Presently, the only recurring prob
lem plaguing the building is the toilets
which, according to Beebe,
stopped up from time to time.

“We're still working on the toilet
problem. We're running tests,’ said
Beebe. ‘We're trying to pinpoint
where the problem is. We've been
working very closely with the factory
and the engineers with the problem. ”’

Beebe also said that all of the closets
would be changed this summer to
meet the building's regulations. The
new closets will look identical to the
present ones, only they will consist of
different material.

‘finishing tou

get

\_|See Gaines, page 5

Straw Poll held Wednesday

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

 

Yesterday, the College Republicans
and the Young Democrats co-spon-
sored a straw poll to determine who
the W&L community would elect
President in 1988.

Out of 336 participants, 219 voted
with the Republican party, 108 with
the Democrats. Nine voters were un-
decided.

George Bush led the Republicans
with 39.7% of the vote followed
closely by Robert Dole with 33.3%
Far behind the top two contenders,
Pete duPont captured 8.7% of the
votes, Jack Kemp, 8.2%, Alexander
Haig, 5.5%, and Pat Robertson 4.6%.

The majority of the Democratic
votes went to Mike Dukakis with
27%. Albert Gore was second with
19.4% of the vote followed by Jesse
Jackson with 15.7%, Paul Simon with
11.1% and Bruce Babbitt with 10%

Richard Gephardt and Gary Hart
each won 7.4% of the vote. Although
he was not on the ticket, Mario
Cuomo received | % of the vote

Sophomore Kristi Goodman, Presi
dent of the Young Democrats, said the
purpose of the straw poll was to de
termine who would be elected Presi
dent if the actual election took place
Tuesday on the W&L campus. She
said it is difficult to tell which audien
ces national polls reflect.

Responses from the student body re
flected a range of political views
Senior Mark Robertson, a Bush sup
porter, said, ‘‘Bush is not a strong
candidate but he’s been in the White
House and knows the ropes

Junior Betsy Parkins thinks that du
Pont’s track record as governor of De
laware makes him the best candidate

University Registrar Scott Dittman
says he supports Jack Kemp because
Kemp is the candidate he is most fa

miliar with at present. Howevey
Dittman also has ideas concerning the
election in general

Dittman says h would like to ox
back to the da vhen th cond
place candidate was selected for Vix ¢
President for a balance of R public

and Democratic

See Straw, page 4
OPINION

 

Innovate

The second annual Lip Sync contest, benefitting Multiple
Sclerosis, was held last Friday night at the GHQ and appeared to be
a rousing success, not only in the amount of money raised, but in
the number of students in attendance. It was great to see members of
the student body coming together to relax and have a good time.

It’s not often one sees this happening because of the social system
at Washington and Lee. Social life is centered around the fraternity
parties held on weekends and Wednesday nights. Not that the
fraternities are at fault for a limited social atmosphere. Being pri-
marily social organizations, they do their best to support the social
life of their members and they do a good job at that.

But this leads to a social system that is greatly dominated by
groups; a student parties with his fraternity, and other students de-
pend on those parties to have anything to do on weekends in Lexing-
ton. While there is nothing inherently wrong in fraternity parties,
their constant repetition can get boring. And what about students
not belonging to fraternities? Their social options are extremely
limited.

The Student Activities Board (SAB) seems to have three func-
tions: Fancy Dress, Wednesday nights in the GHQ, and occasional
special functions such as Christmas Weekend. With the exception
of Fancy Dress, the SAB events basically seem to be sticking a band
somewhere and letting people show up. No wonder the SAB loses
money most every year.

The success of Lip Sync has shown that W&L students are ac-
cepting to new and innovative ideas. The SAB should apply its
brainpower to coming up with new activities for the students to en-
joy. This does not mean that the SAB should start sponsoring fund-
raising events. It only means there is a need on the campus for new
social options, and the need should be addressed.

It seems to be a common complaint that fraternities party too
much, and with fraternities in the situation of being one of the most
popular targets of lawsuits, parties are becoming increasingly risky.
If the SAB would adopt some changes in its planning of events,
much of the social burden would be taken off the fraternity systems’
shoulders. This would allow brotherhoods to party with themselves
and their guests without feeling obligated to support the social lives
of W&L and five surrounding women’s colleges.

Once again we extend hearty congratulations to Jerry Darrell’s
Lip Sync contest. It’s great to see such a worthy cause supported so
well on the W&L campus.

Consider

The W&L Board of Trustees will be meeting in Lexington this
weekend, discussing the current state of the university and its plans
for the future. While the trustees are in town there are a few things
we would like them to look into. They may seem insignificant in
comparison to building a new theater or ensuring the institution’s
financial viability in today’s uneasy economic world, but they affect
the W&L community everyday, and that makes them important.

First is the parking situation at W&L, a problem that has been re-
peatedly discussed in this editorial column. We have yet to hear
from the administration about a possible solution to the problem or
a valid excuse why it has not been corrected. The trustees may think
this problem is trivial, but it’s not. The grass and ground in the Cor-
ral area at the foot of the Hill has been ruined almost completely by
cars forced to park off the pavement. Student cars overflow into the
city of Lexington, taking over spaces that we are sure merchants
would much rather have occupied by customers. It would not seem
that this situation would do much for ‘‘town-gown’’ relations.

Turning to the fraternity renaissance program, we hope that the
trustees give serious consideration to begin the program as soon as
possible. A show of strong support from the board will assure the
university community that the program is in the future, as it should
be. The renaissance program is one of the most exciting and promis-
ing developments on the fraternity front in the past few years at
W&L.

We realize that the Board of Trustees has an enormous amount of
responsibility upon it. Improving W&L’s already high standards
and ensuring its success in the future are important tasks. However,
the problems we have listed are only the beginning of a list of prob-
lems that add up to a great whole. By ignoring the small problems in
the present, the problems in the future may grow to unmanageable
proportions.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEW STAFF
I soak oc Neh hes coc ences cage eeetrrees Marie Dunne
David Emrich
Mews ROMO ccc cess ivccsvevecessccerssccevivevetccbescevesseetec Peter Boatner
Assignment Editor... ......sssceeccseecesceccsesenecesnceceseseneens Chris Munsey
Sports Editor ...... Sideline unten Mike Shady
Entertainment Editor .........cscccccceceseeecerereeneevessereees Michael Tuggle
Photography Editor, ...........0scsecseeceeenecenseeneeenseeeeeeueees Perry Hayes
Copy Editor, ........ 2 eee eeeeeeee cee eeceeeceeecasseereeeeeeer sees Katherine Graci
OPINION PAGE STAFF
Editorial Page EGMOF........0.sscsrersesscsssvssssessocezcnnoaseecsnssosonscsesessnooecsnessensaoescoseeooesooe Sean Bugg
COPODIIE ..00scccscstsseresccscsccsscsosssnesssssescssccesecsveoesnecsceneesneteerscosersecssecoeee sees MONON INGTARI
BUSINESS STAFF
Re RIE MEMNAUIIE ihc 56600. bss URS be A ee es Rhona Hughes
Jason Faust
Advertising Mamager. .........ce--cececssccccccccsscvesssseeeses Christie Champlin
Circulation Manager ...6ssccscccccccesccccccevoscecoseeveveeeeecoeees Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Liberals
lead to
dolphins

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

My parents spent many sleepless
nights during my high school years
worrying about my future. They
feared that someone who spent so
much time in the principal’s office for
disrupting assemblies, skipping
school, organizing rotten fruit fights,
and attempting to start a revolutionary
newspaper could end up in only one
place—jail. In hopes of cooling off
some of my radical tendencies they
encouraged me to attend a conserva-
tive university. They were looking for
a school away from big cities; they
were looking for a school full of Re-
publicans; they were looking for a
school far away from home; they were
looking for Washington and Lee and
they found it.

Washington and Lee is presently
conservative but in recent weeks I
have seen the liberal seeds that are
sure to become the roots of a tropical
forest. A forest so verdant and green
that it will last eternally. I know about
this growing forest because of a vision
I will now take the pleasure of sharing
with you.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28,
2088. Duckhead pants have become
extinct while LSD has replaced alco-
hol as the school’s favorite drug.
Animal rights protests have interrup-
ted class for two weeks straight. Due

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1988

e Only Aamont of shopping days left
Hl FD. ZC alncot forgot thot

a could ask Soméone . *

 
    

 

 

to the lack of interested majors, the C-
school has been converted into a Hari
Khrisna Culture Center. University
president Timothy Leary HI has is-
sued a statement concerning the de-
cision of many students to attend class
naked: ‘‘No problem man.”’

Many of you probably had this same
vision while others are wondering
what type of psychological affliction
that I suffer from. Luckily I have ta-
ken the strategy of George Orwell and
leading economists by insuring that I
will be dead at the time the prediction
can be disproved.

In order to shorten my article and
save some trees (see how liberal
things are becoming; I couldn’t have
said that a month ago) I will get to the
topic of this article—dolphins which I

will use to represent all intelligent
marine mammals.

Every day dolphins suffocate in the
nets of tuna fisherman who capitalize
on the fact that tuna swim underneath
schools of dolphins for various
reasons. Killing dolphins under any
circumstance is as immoral as killing a
human being for, amongst others, the
main reason that dolphins are superior
to humans.

Most people agree that dolphins are
morally superior because they don’t
have wars, pollution or body odor. It
is in the area of intelligence that peo-
ple have a problem accepting dolphin
superiority. The point that is most
often made is that if dolphins were as
smart as us they would have techno-

logy (by this same logic Aborigine In-
dians are also inferior to technological
societies). But let’s face it, technology
is really over-rated. In fact, technol-
ogy is stupid. Technology gave us the
Dating Game, which alone proves we
would be better off without it.

Maybe I’ve been unfair to hu-
manity—we do have a lot of good qua-
lities. The two most important ones
being reproduction and surfing. But
then again dolphins surf and rep-
roduce too. Wait a minute, we have
Captain Crunch! I guess Captain
Crunch makes up for all of our moral
and technological ills. Therefore, I am
forced to conclude that we are equal to
dolphins and until they invent Captain
Crunch they should be treated equally.

 

 

LETTERS

What happens when you chase your checks around

To: W&L Faculty Undergrads, Law Students,
and Local Merchants

It is that time of year again. We all return from
break with our checking accounts full of presents
from the festive season and new term allowances.
However, many of us are now finding out that we
lost the ‘chase the check game’’, jokingly called
by Mr. Bugg in the Phi. Not only are you finding
out that you lost the game but the local merchants,
and most importantly the Cold Check Committee,
are also finding out. This is not as amusing as you
may find it. Actually, you are paying the banks
about $15.00 per check you bounce and they love
it! This begins to hurt when the check was only
written for 50 cents to Lloyd’s for Video games
after chasing Mr. Buzz.

As chairman of the Cold Check Committee, I
am responsible for the relations between the town
merchants and the W&L community. Would
many of you frustrated check writers like to know
why you can not write checks starting May 1?
First, I will explain the Cold Check Committee to
the few who have never been summonsed or the
many who have been summonsed but did not go
because ‘“‘it is only the Cold Check Committee’.
When you write a check, the merchant sends it to
their bank in town. Their bank in town sends the
check to your bank. This takes a while for those of
you with banks located in Bohunk, West Arizona.
When you bounce a check, your bank sends the
check back to the bank of the merchant which
sends it back to the merchant. The merchant waits
a day or so and attempts to send it through a se-
cond and last time. If it bounces again the same
process ensues, this time the stamp on the check
reads ‘‘insufficient funds, remitted twice do not
remit’’ and the merchant is stuck with the bill. At
this point the merchant is supposed to call the
number on the rules sheet, which the committee
passes out at the beginning of each new year. To
my knowledge, the rules have not changed in the
past three years. When they call this number, an
exuberant and kind Mrs. Carol Ann Calkins an-
swers the phone and takes a, usually, irate mer-
chant’s name and number for a member of the
committee to go by and pick up the bad check. We
pick up the check and add it to our continuously
growing file. Then at our next meeting we send a
summons in a 22 cent envelope to your address
looked up from the register. We then hope that
you show up at the weekly 7 o'clock Thursday
night meeting.

Where does the money for the committee to
pick up these bad checks and pay postage come
from? The minuscule fines that the committee
charges the student after hearing their ‘‘my dog
ate my checkbook register’ explanations. The
fines range from a $3 fine for math error or a $5
fine for negligence, or $10 fine for a floated
check. But no one floats a check because this is
not only illegal, but could even be considered an
honor violation and none of us would ever know-
ingly do that!

If this is such a good system, why does it not
work? I'll start with the merchant’s side. Many of
the merchants hold check for weeks until they
give up trying to get hold of the student them-
selves so they can get an additional $10 to $25 dol-
lar fee for the bounced check. When they then call
me, they often have accumulated hundreds of dol-
lars in bounced checks. The committee is unable
to go to two or more merchants and collect over
$100 dollars in bad checks. The irony of this situa-
tion is the fact that W&L is the worst of all the
merchants. The University has been known to
hold checks for over 6 months! The rules passed
out to all the merchants state that once you get a
bad check you immediately call the committee and

we will immediately come and pick it up. Please
do not wait for a whole crop to return or wait until
you can’t find the students yourselves! The com-
mittee will do this. tery

In the sense of fairness, I turn to the suslent's,

side. Has anyone tried to get a law ,student to
come to a meeting on Thursday night? Yes, I real-
ize that some have classes but if you were to call
the number on your summons and set up another
time to suit you, the committee would have no
problems. But, just letting it go until you can’t
register for classes and clear your account doesn’t
cut it. I am also appalled at the attitude that some
of the students display if they even show up. The
committee is here for you! We pick up the checks
without you having to pay the fine assessed by the
merchants. This saves you anything from $10 to
$25. The committee also assures the merchants
that we will pay your tab if you bounce a check,
therefore, they always know they will get their

money so they accept your checks. So why do.

students complain about the average $5 fine from
the committee compared to the $15 or more fine
they would otherwise get from the merchants?

Why then can’t we write checks after May 1?
Because the committee stops picking checks up
after May 15 and the merchants want to get all
their bounced checks back and collected before
the committee closes its doors and the merchant is
stuck forever with your last few bills at W&L. I’-
ve talked to several merchants about their
policies. Some of them agreed to honor checks un-
til we all leave in June. However, many of us
seniors will be closing our accounts the day we
graduate and the day after many of us wrote mon-
strous checks to the Palms the night before in the
spirit of graduation. Still others will be taking out
all that is left to make the last journey of the year
home. In order for the merchants to honor the
checks that are certain to be bounced, the commit-
tee must guarantee pick up the following year.
This means huge losses to the committee from
graduates, both law and undergrads, and those
others who don’t return for other various reasons.
This means even greater losses added to the
already large group of ‘‘dead checks’’ the com-
mittee has accumulated. To suck up these added
losses, I need to ask the E.C. to budget me money
to pay for these checks. This is something that has
never been done before. The E.C. has lent the
money before, but never budgeted it with the as-
sumption that most of it will be lost. Therefore,
the money I need will have to come from other
organizations like Fancy Dress, heaven forbid, or
added to the student activity fee which is already
backbreaking. Is it worth it?

The only way to attempt to retrieve losses from
graduates and those who don’t show up to meet-
ings is to put your file in the registrar’s office on
hold. This means no transcripts: for undergrad
graduates, (the committee can’t put transcript
holds on law students because of Law School po-
licy) and no registration, grades, or diploma for
those who are still left. This is a chafe for Scott
Dittman and crew, the committee, mainly me, and
most importantly you!

I finish this editorial by asking that those who
have not written bad checks, don’t. Yes, we are
all human and will all make mista!.es, however,
this is one that can and should be avoided. I also
ask that those of you who have outstanding
checks, please come to any meeting on Thursday
nights at 7 and clear your accounts so that the
committee can clear other accounts of merchants.
Further delinquency will prove to be difficult and
expensive way to pay a $2 check. There is no real
disciplinary means the committee can take except
for Student Conduct Committee, and I don’t think

Mike Henry wants to have to slap you on your
wrist and tell you to pay your bounced check
when that is the responsibility of Cold Check! If

. the committee is not respected by students or mer-

chants then why have it? Try writing checks then!
Ask the Seniors from Mary Baldwin what hap-
pened when their Cold Check Committee ceased
to exist freshman year.

Lastly, to all you Seniors who will bounce
checks near graduation, enjoy, because those stu-
dents that are left behind will be picking up your
tab. And to you who are left, I am glad that next
year’s Chairman of the Committee will be chasing
you, and not me.

Chairman of Student
Financial Relations Committee
Sandy Harrison

Lip Sync is success

To the Editors:

The 2nd annual Lip Sync contest to benefit Mul-
tiple Sclerosis was, once again, a smashing suc-
cess. On Friday evening approximately 250 spec-
tators had a ball jamming to the tunes of ‘‘the
Village People’’, ‘‘Tom Bon Jovi & the Skulls’,
the ‘‘Modern Major General’’, ‘‘George Mi-
chael’’ and nine other ingenious acts. Close to
$900.00 was raised for MS, doubling last year’s
proceeds. Thanks go out to the following mer-
chants who generously donated door prizes which
were given out to spectators throughout the even-
ing: Lloyd’s of Lexington, Wendy’s, The Palms,
Willson-Waiker House, J&B Office Supply, Sy-
camore Farms, Flip Side, Golden Corral, S&S
Auto Repair, Long John Silver’s, Subway Sand-
wich Shop, Spanky’s, W&L GHQ Tavern, W&L
Bookstore, W&L Executive Committee, and
W&L Student Activities Board.

Finally, 1 want to extend my heartfelt gratitude
to the many volunteers who worked behind the
scene (and the stage) and enabled the show to
come off without a hitch. The list is too numerous
to print here but you know who you are and on
behalf of the National Multiple Sclerosis So-
ciety—give yourselves a big hug.

Very sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
MS Volunteer

Lesson to be learned

To the Editors:

One has to wonder if it’s worth the effort.
Washington and Lee just finishes it’s drug aware-
ness week, and there is now a poster for party at
Zollman’s pavilion. What’s wrong with this? The
poster has two outstretched arms holding beer
mugs while driving. Aren’t we suppose to be past
this point by now? It’s ironic that while the frater-
nities have received a lot of heat from this prob-
lem, now a woman’s group is glamorizing drink-
ing and driving. We’ve all read articles written by
someone who has lost a friend due to drunk driv-
ing, and such articles usually contain the line,
‘*When will we ever learn?’’ I guess we haven’t
yet.

Francis Coryell
Class of 90

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1988

*

‘NEWS/OPINION

Stuart nominated

 

 

e

Students form Amnesty

Hi ia

 

 

 

 

inn

for Pulitzer prize

From Staff Reports

 

Don't Look Back, Dabney Stuart's
recently published book of poetry, has
been nominated for a Pulitzer Prize.

Stuart, professor of English at
WAL, is on leave in New Zealand for
the 1987-88 academic year, with the
support of a Guggenheim Fellowship
which he was awarded last spring.

Don't Look Back, Stuart's ninth
book, was published by Louisiana
State University Press in 1987. In six
long poems which comprise the book,
Stuart focuses on ‘‘central people and

* emotions from his past and integrates

them into a search for personal
wholeness in the present.’ The book
« has also been nominated for the Mel-
ville Cane Book Award.
* A Richmond native, Stuart joined
» the W&L faculty in 1965. He received
his bachelor’s degree in English from
* Davidson College and his master’s
- degree from Harvard. He has served

as poet-in- resident at Trinity College
and the University of Virginia.

In addition to his Guggenheim Fel-
lowship, Stuart has received grants
from the National Endowment for the
Humanities, the Governor’s Award
for the Arts (Va.), the Dylan Thomas
Award from the Poetry Society of
America, the Hopwood Award from
the University of Michigan and the
Vereen Bell Prize at Davidson Col-
lege, among others. His works have
appeared in numerous publications,
including The New Yorker, Southern
Poetry Review, The Southern Review,
Modern Language Quarterly, Poetry,
and North American Review.

The Pulitzer Prizes in Journalism,
Letters, and Music were endowed by
Joseph Pulitzer (1847-1911) in a
bequest to Columbia University, and
are awarded annually by the president
of the university on recommendation
of the Pulitzer Prize Board for work
done during the preceding year.

 

 

File Photo

Dabney Stuart

Last all-male class remembers ‘how it was’

International chapter

By Margaret Pimblett
Staff Reporter

 

About 45 W&L undergraduate stu-
dents and professors attended an or-
ganizational meeting for a campus
chapter of Amnesty International, a
human rights organization which
works to free what it calls “‘prisoners
of conscience.’

The meeting was scheduled by Ke-
vin McNamara, a W&L senior, who
said he was interested in ‘‘getting the
ball rolling’’ for the group.

According to its promotional litera-
ture, Amnesty International is a hu-
man rights organization with three
goals: the release of prisoners of
conscience—people who have been
imprisoned for their belief who have
not used or advocated violence, *‘fair
and prompt trials for all political
prisoners’’ and ‘‘an end to torture and
executions in all cases.””

The Amnesty organization includes

a . : : . *

By Christie Ch ; Henry said this party will be the Vited because their senior classes were — were around were Wednesday nights caveral different types of groups, in-
to . S at ‘hamplin first of two planned senior class func- also the last classes before W&L ac- and weekends. Henry said that “‘little cluding high school and college chap-
: taff Reporter tions. The second will be a party out cepted coeducation and ‘‘they know cliques have formed,”’ and added that ters, local community groups, and

 

This year’s first Senior Class Party
ewill be held on Friday, Feb. 5 from 10
.P.m. to 2 a.m. at Zollman’s Pavilion.
“The party is open to seniors from
*W&L, Hollins College, Mary Bald-
win College, Randolph-Macon
"Women's College, Sweet Briar Col-
slege and their dates.

The band for the party is The Gen-
erics who are ‘‘a contemporary rock
‘and rojll band,’’ according to Mike
Henry, the senior class President and
organizer of the event.

in the country at the end of spring
term, featuring the band Indecision.

The party will offer a chance ‘‘to
see people you haven't seen since
freshman year’’ in a setting where
‘everyone mutually belongs,’” said
Henry, deeming it ‘‘a good chance to
catch up.”’

It is not the case that the party Is
closed to W&L co-eds, said Henry.
The party is closed to all W&L under-
classmen, excepting the dates of W&L
seniors.

The four women’s colleges were in-

how it was and we know how it was,”
stated Henry.

Each college is contributing money
from its social fund. This money is
paying for a large part of the band.
This enables the seniors to have a se-
cond party, also with a band, in the
spring.

He believes that the largest negative
aspect concerning coeducation is the
loss of the ‘intangible bond”’ posses-
sed throughout the dormitories before
the beginning of coeducation.

Before, the only times that women

coeducation ‘‘doesn’t give all of the
guys the amount of time they had be-
fore to spend with each other.”

Henry said the party will have am-
ple free drinks, including twenty kegs
and alternate beverages. There will be
eight sober drivers available.

The party is free to all seniors who
have paid their dues. There will be a
computerized list at the door of who
has and has not paid their dues. If you
have not paid your dues, please bring
$10 with you to cover this party and
the party in the spring.

-

> To the Editors:

Recently the Executive Committee accepted ap-
* plications for the White Book Revisions Commit-
,tee. Sure it’s great resurné fodder, but also it is
wonderful opportunity to effect great changes in
“the ways we enforce our honor system. For those
lucky enough to be nominated to this important
committee, I offer two suggestions you might
*want to discuss.
. First, confidentiality, under Section O, is a
wonderful concept, but the Executive Committee
*has no power to enforce it. The goal of confiden-
ytiality is to protect the rights of the accused, and
our elected representatives need the force to
*protect those rights. While the accused may be
«guilty or innocent, that is not a matter for 1500 in-
dependent juries to decide. We have a process, a
“damn good proces, that litigates on our behalf.
+Let’s put some muscle behind confidentiality to
curb the ‘‘gossip factor’’ in our honor proceed-
*ings.
« Second, and along the lines of the first sugges-
tion, why not close the doors on student body
“honor trials? Keep the jury. Keep the court offi-
«cers. Keep the prosecution. Keep the defense.
, They all serve a function, but the audience is not
“really necessary. Think about it. I know every-
~body wants a ‘‘foundation for public discussion on
,issues of honor’, but after the trial there are no is-
" sues—the jury has already rendered the verdict.
«Further, there are no “‘ongoing issues’’ because
,the enforcement of our honor system is admin-
istered on a case-by-case basis. There is no prece-
*dent. The honor trial is an appeal which, by nature
of its presence, exalts the possibility of innocence

That innocence should be protected.

“*But, Mike,”’ you say, **I want the opportunity
to see the honor system at work.’’ Oh, but you do
see the honor system at work everyday. As long

-aS we can still leave our doors unlocked, také un-

proctored exams, believe the words of our class-
mates, respeét One another, and be truthful to our-
selves, the honor system is at work, and you can
see it—you can feel it. The honor system is not the
thirteen members of the Executive Committee,
day long trials, and pledged exams. These are
only conventions we have established to enforce
and protect our system. The honor system, hope-
fully, is within you. Look no further.

Sure, my suggestions might knock out some
great conversation topics, and will make winter
term rather dull, but the goal of these measures is
to protect individuals, some of whom are not un-
like yourself. If nothing else. it will save on the
cost of repainting the library elevator doors. The
defense rests.

Sincerely,
Michael D. Webb

Disdain for ‘Hanoi Jane’

To the Editors:

It was with much disdain that I read the recent
editorial challenge Pat Heffernan made January

— LETTERS

; Senior suggests changes for White Book

2 Ist, urging Phi staffer, Margaret Pimblett, to be-
come the next ‘‘Hanoi Jane’’ of Washington and
Lee. I would tend to doubt that Miss Pimblett
would lend herself to any of the radicalism that
Heffernan suggested. Can he really believe that
the erection of a ‘‘shanty town’”’ in front of the Co-
lonnade would actually inspire P.W. Botha to
publicly embrace Nelson Mandella in downtown
Johannesburg or move our moral, loving Soviet
adversaries to promptly withdraw from Afghanis-
tan? If he does, would you ask him to tell Santa I
want a fire engine for Christmas and a low-cal
bunny from the Easter Rabbit?!

While I respect Mr. Heffenan’s desire to see an
end to the vulgarity of human rights violations
in the world, I fail to see how, in any real terms,
the placement of corrugated tin shacks in front of
the Colonnade (a national historic landmark),
would help the plight of black South Africans, the
Solidarity movement, or the Contras. His propo-
sal would be the vile equivalent of putting missile
silos in Yellowstone Park. It is, undoubtedly, his
naif and ridiculously idealistic views that charac-
terize him as an unsophisticated, glassy eyed
Freshman dwelling somewhere just east of Uto-
pia. I, for one, do not wish to compromise the
elegant beauty of our campus. While all of the
causes Heffernan mentions merit support, he and
anyone else would be doing them little service by
playing the role of incompetent sheet metal
workers.

Yours in the preservation of
good taste,
S.L. Hickey, °88

 

 

 
 
   

Photos by
Perry Hayes

 

 

“but I guess they need something
, like this to keep them happy. I
would be better if they raised the
* money like fraternities do.’

 

need to continue it.”’

 

TALKBACK

  

professional groups. The primary as-
pect of Amnesty’s work is the writing
of letters to heads of countries where
prisoners of conscience are being
held, and asking for a reveiw of their
cases.

McNamara said he heard of Am-
nesty through friends at Virginia Tech
in Blacksburg, who were members of
the campus chapter there.

He said he wanted to form the chap-
ter because ‘‘I think we can all make a
difference’’ in social rights.

The purpose of the W&L chapter,
McNamara said, was not just to parti-
cipate in the letter-writing programs
but also to help students learn about
human rights.

McNamara stressed that he was not
the leader of the group, but only the

“impetus’” for a group of concerned
students to begin their work for social
rights.

The faculty advisor for the W&L
chapter is Alexandra Brown, a reli
gion professor who said she had been
involved with AI ‘‘only tangentially”
before she came to W&L this year.

Brown had worked with the letter-
writing aspect of AI at Union Theolo-

 

Amnesty International’s logo.

gical Seminary and Columbia Uni-
versity in New York, but was not a
member of the organization.

‘‘A lot of people can get involved”’
in the work of Al, Brown said.

Amnesty International is becoming
more recognized by college-age peo-
ple partly because of the concert tours
being performed by such musicians as
U2, Peter Gabriel, Sting, Litle Steven
van Zandt, and Lou Reed. The lar-
gest-scale American tour was the
“Conspiracy of Hope’’ benefit tour
held in June 1986, the final concert of
which was broadcast live on MTV.

McNamara downplayed the impor-
tance of those concerts, saying the

{See Amnesty, page 5

IFC makes plans for
Greek Week ‘88

 

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

The IFC unveiled a new plan for
Greek Week Tuesday. Instead of the
event being sponsored by the IFC,
each year a different fraternity will
have a chance to sponsor it. This
year’s sponsor will be the Phi Kappa
Psi fraternity.

Greek Week will kick off on April
27, with a band on the Colonnade.
The sporting events will also com-
mence on Wednesday, with all frater-
nities, the Independent Union, and
other organizations invited to com-
pete.

A volleyball game will be held
Wednesday, a crab soccer game
Thursday, and an Ultimate Frisbee
game Friday. Winners of all events
will have a check donated in their
name to the United Way and the

 
 
 

Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

 

What do you think of Confettis and Winter Slosh?

 

an “open party’ for
tend,
them 3 nights a week.’

the early age of coeducation, but it
might be better if maybe they

I've never been to one.’
had

everyone to at

just as the fraternities do for

 

Peter Sackett—Junior “It's not Monica Burke—Junior “T think Steve Scezecinski—Senior ‘It's a Woody Heath—Sophomore *'It's Scott Richardson—Sophomore Manoli Loupassi—Junior ‘‘!
. necessarily fair that the school is it’s something the girls need. It’s a good thing for the girls to be doing fun—it's just another party. Actu- “It’s fair, but why do the girls feel don’t think it’s necessarily fair that
forking over money for the band, start for right now, but we may not something to unify themselves in ally, I don’t really know because they need to create their own social all other school sponsored events

atmosphere? It’s rare that frater-
nity parties are restricted to ‘date
only’ parties.”’

American Cancer Society.

After the varsity lacrosse game on
Saturday against VMI, there will be
an Anything Goes contest, which will
feature a different event tor each team
member. Greek Week will finish up
with a band on the upper fields.

In other news, the IFC will send in-
terested individuals to the South-
eastern Interfraternity Conference in
Atlanta Feb. 25-28. Contact your IFC
representative if you are interested.

The Lexington litter ordinance has
changed frorn allowing 24 hours for
people to clean up litter in their yards
to having them do it immediately upon
request of an officer. Litter in yards is
also against the W&L party policy
guidelines, said Associate Dean Leroy
C. Atkins.

The IFC will begin printing minutes
of its meetings this week. They will be
posted around campus and distributed
to all the fraternities.

 

we have allow for both sexes to in
vite dates. This sucks for the guys
that don’t get invited.’

 

 
ooo eae

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1988

 

wee we roses

By Betsy Parkins
Staff Reporter

 

Anece McCloud, associate dean of
students for minority and international
affairs, was selected this month to the
fifth edition of Who's Who Among
Black Americans.

McCloud has been at W&L since
1985, initially serving as an advisor to
both minority and international stu-
dents. Since 1985 however, her work
in the Dean’s office has expanded.
She now advises pre-med students,
helps students that are going abroad to
study to get visa’s and applications,
and has established study skills pro-

grams for students.

**To be effective I want to be able to
provide service to all kinds of stu-
dents. With the support of Dean John
I’ve been able to develop some new
types of programs like the study skills
program,’ McCloud said.

McCloud was included in Who's
Who Among Black Americans mainly
for her work before she came to
W&L. Publishers of the book look for
“reference value. ”’

‘They [the publishers] contacted
me about biograhical information and
asked me if I would be willing to serve
on boards, etc.,’” McCloud said.

Individuals are selected to be in the
book based on appointments to office
or achievement in a career. Previously

she taught in Greensboro, North Caro-
lina and at Woodbridge Air Force
Base in England. She has also served
as assistant registrar for academic re-
cords and the first director of the of-
fice of minority student affairs at the
University of Nebraska Medical
Center.

Currently McCloud is a member of
the American Association for Coun-
seling and Development, the Associa-
tion of American Medical Colleges,
and is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the Rockbridge Unit of the
American Cancer Society and the
National Association for Women
Deans.

McCloud says her selection comes
at a time when many women and min-

 

McCloud receives Who’s Who honors

orities are wondering if it is truly pos-
sible to be achievers in a male-
dominated world.

“I’ve lived through a time where it
was difficult for women and minori-
ties to get a good education. Now I
think things are changing. The oppor-
tunities are there,’’ McCloud said.

‘*With affirmative action and other
legal hiring practices there has been
some head-way gained, but I would
really hope that beyond these legal
means employers would want to hire
based on ability,’ McCloud said.

McCloud will be finishing her own
education in the next few months
when she completes her Masters De-
gree in sociology from the University
of Nebraska at Omaha.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Anece F. McCloud :

Prisoner of the Vietnam war recounts his six-year imprisonment

 

By Stephanie Guittard
Staff Reporter

The most decorated man in the his-
tory of the Air Force spoke here on
Tuesday on the power of values to
carry people through times of crisis.

Col. John A. Dramesi USAF (Ret.)
began his military career in 1956. His
initial assignment was in 1966 in
southeast Asia, serving with the 4th
Infantry Division as an Air Liaison
Officer and Division Forward Air
Controller.

On April 2, 1967, Dramesi was shot
down and captured by the North Viet-
namese. His first escape was eight
days later, yet he was recaptured on
April 11. He led his second escape on
May 10, 1969, which was the only or-
ganized POW escape of the war from
Hanoi. Once again, he was captured
one day later.

Dramesi kept himself alive during
his imprisonment by the strength of
his personal motivations.

“It is your schooling, it is your
friends, it is your mom and dad, it is
the way you were brought up. All of
those things make up the individual.
You're either prepared for the outside
world or a crisis or you’re not pre-
pared properly,’” he stated.

‘A true hero is one who, having
failed, will attempt to uphold the
values he holds dear; he will try again.
Show me one who has failed, failed,
failed, and I'll accept that man or
woman who as tried, tried, tried.’’

He was tortured severely after the
escape attempts, witnessed the deaths

of comrades, yet kept the spirit to live
strong. On March 3, 1973, he was
released, after six years of captivity in
North Vietnam.

‘*There was so much controversy
about the Vietnam War, they
thought...when we finally got back
we'd accept the negativism that was
part of the Vietnam Era. It certainly
wasn’t the case with myself, I was
happy to be back and interested in get-
ting started,’’ Dramesi said.

*‘[For] the POWs specifically, there
was a tremendous swell of enthusiasm
as a result of their coming home
throughout the country. I guess people
look to that as being the homecoming
or the celebration of the end of the
war. Individually...people were
strung out...and I can understand their
negative attitude toward their home-
coming and the Vietnam War, but cer-
tainly I don’t see how the POWs
should have any negative attitudes ex-
cept that they might say, ‘Well, why
didn’t you do what you did three or
four years ago, as opposed to allowing
us to be there longer than any other
prisoners in the history of the United
States.’”’

Dramesi currently serves as Special
Project Officer to Maj. Gen. Francis
R. Gerard, Adjutant General, New
Jersey Department of Defense. He
helps provide service to veterans who
need assistance. He acknowledges the
veterans who have suffered psycholo-
gically from their experience, but ex-

plains that they do not represent the
Vietnam veterans as a whole.
‘*The press is prone to highlight the

Lip Sync contest

raises over

By Melinda Conkling
Staff Reporter

 

There was standing room only, and
not much of that, last Friday night in
the GHQ as the Second Annual Lip
Syne Contest took place. Approxi-
mately 250 spectators gathered to
watch 12 acts which included Ma-
donna, Run DMC, and Spinal Tap.
The contestants were comprised of
W&L students, as well as Lexington
townspeople.

This year’s $100 grand prize was
awarded to five members of the Fiji
house for their rendition of the Village
People’s ‘“YMCA.”’

“We had a lot of fun and helped
benefit Multiple Sclerosis at the same
time,’’ said Phil DuPont, one of the
winning band members. ‘‘We picked
“YMCA’ because it was funny and we
thought we could make it pretty inter-
esting.”

$800

The $50 second prize went to five
W&L coeds who performed another
Village People hit, “‘Macho Man.”’
The Lexington Chamber Music Socie-
ty’s ‘‘Do Re Mi’”’ earned Fancy Dress
tickets and third place honors. Honor-
able mentions were awarded to Bon
Jovi’s ‘“‘You Give Love A Bad
Name”’ and Aretha & Co.'s ‘‘Re-
spect.’’

Many people benefitted from the
fund-raising exhibition that raised
over $850. Door prizes were awarded
to several spectators. The prizes in-
cluded gift certificates from the Will-
son-Walker House, an oil and lube job
from S&S Auto Repair and sandwi-
ches from Wendy’s, Lloyd’s of Lex-
ington, and the Golden Corral.

‘*I’m overjoyed by the response to
the contest. It was only our second
year, but everyone had a great time,”’
said Jerry Darrell, regional MS vol-
unteer and director of University Food
Services.

Lexington’s
Market

Budweiser-12 Pk.

COWE sssivsceds feiseoe tects cokavceccens NEE

12-Oz.

Nacho Chips. ..........Buy1,Get1Free

Citrus Hill-12 Oz.

OrAMNQO SUOO vi icsiissssscccssccceceseseseod 10M

Red Emperor

eS TT

Kraft French, Catalina, Ranch

DO NN ola issiveisictcsncepencssecee tt Ot

Shop Our Low Prices

 

problems, and rightly so. Let’s not be
fooled, let’s not develop the wrong
perception. ..My information indicates
that he represents a better cut than that
which would be viewed as the average
[/american citizen]}.””

“If you go out, right in this area,
the faculty, people in business, the
town government or whatever, find
out who the Vietnam veterans are.

You'll be surprised in that they are in
positions of responsibility.””

‘*There is an attempt to help, but,
there are 900,000 veterans in New
Jersey, and 213,000 of those are Viet-
nam veterans. The point is, out of
those 213,000...there is very very
very small segment of people who at
this point, for one reason or another,
are incapable of helping themselves in
the environment that exists to benefit

them...That does not represent the
whole of the Vietnam veterans.’’

“But yes, there are those who don’t
have jobs, there are those who are al-
coholics, and there are those who are
influenced by drugs, and there are
those who need help, but, certainly
they do not represent the...Vietnam
veterans. I am positive that that is the
case nationwide.”’

Dramesi is the author of the book

Code of Honor, and is the most highly
decorated man in the United”
States Air Force. He holds the Master,
Jump Wings, the Army’s highest par-
achute rating, two Air Force Cross?
awards for valor, the Silver Star, five,
Purple Hearts, and numerous other
awards. ‘

Dramesi’s visit was sponsored by,
the W&L Military Science Depart-
ment and the Contact lecture series. *

Pianist to perform Professor Stewart’s works |

From Staff Reports

 

The Washington and Lee University
Concert Guild will present pianist
Leon Bates Tuesday, Feb. 2, at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel on the W&L campus. A
reception for Bates at the W&L
Alumni House will follow the perfor-
mance.

The concert is open to all W&L
Concert Guild season ticket holders
and W&L personnel. Tickets may also
be purchased at the door at $5 for
adults and $3 for senior citizens and
non-W&L students.

Bates will perform ‘‘Toccata’’ by
Perkinson, ‘‘Sonatine’’ by Ravel, and
‘Five Miniatures for Piano’’ and
‘Variations for Piano’’ by Robert
Stewart, chairman of the music div-
ision at Washington and Lee.

Also included in the program will
be ‘‘Fourth Autumn”’ by Ellis Marsa-
lis, ‘‘Five Children’s Songs’’ by
Chick Corea, and ‘‘Sonata No. 1”’
(1953) by George Walker.

Bates has established himself as one
of the leading performers in America.
A favorite among Lexington audien-
ces, Bates returns to W&L after ap-

pearances in Carnegie Hall, Alice Tu-
lly Hall, the Kennedy Center, and the
Academy of Music in Philadelphia,
among others.

Bates has performed with major
symphonies, among them the New
York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia
and Cleveland Orchestras, the
National Symphony, the Los Angeles
Philharmonic, and the San Francisco
and Detroit Symphonies. He has also
performed with symphonies in Du-
blin, Zimbabwe, Strasbourg, Vienna,
Canada, and Rome.

In 1987, Bates returned to Europe to

Relache gives W&L contemporary

By Alice Harrell
Staff Reporter

Many of those who arrived at the
Ralache concert in Lee Chapel Tues-
day, Jan. 19, were probably not quite
sure what to expect.

Although the term ‘‘contemporary
music’’ is familiar enough, just what
type of music this term refers to might
not be so obvious to those who are not
musically oriented. The Washington
and Lee Concert Guild provided the
opportunity to find out just what ‘‘con-
temporary music’’ is when they
brought Relache to campus.

Relache (full name, ‘‘Relache: the
Ensemble for Contemporary Music)
has expanded remarkably since it was
founded by Joseph Showalter and
Joseph Franklin in Philadelphia ten
years ago. As a performing ensemble,
its many talented artists have built a
widely varied repertoire through work
with composers at places such as Yel-
low Springs Institute and Drexel Uni-
versity.

Developing their ‘‘world music”’
image in the combination of Ameri-
can, European, and Asian composi-
tions, Relache’s own unique sound
began to emerge through their unusual

instrumentation and
techniques.

improvisation

Relache is also a producing organi-
zation that emphasizes the music of
living composers. Their insight into
the composition of music and practice
of direct collaboration with composers
and performers is widely recognized.

The best way to get a taste of to-
day’s contemporary or ‘‘new’’ music
would be to hear Relache perform in
concert or on one of their radio pro-
grams. To describe this music in
words in difficult, even for the
group’s executive director, Joseph
Franklin. When asked for his own de-

Executive Committee forms committee
on Lexington City Council housing issue

By John Ryan
Staff Reporter

The Executive Committee Monday
formed a committee to represent stu-
dents in the ongoing Lexington City
Council debate over a law that forbids
more than four unrelated people from
living in the same house.

The EC also heard the Independent
Union report from IU president John
Maxwell, and a budget request from
John Legters, incoming Rugby Club
president.

The new committee, headed by EC
member Brandt Wood, will represent
student’s interests in the debate about
the enforcement of the law, which
could drastically affect off-campus
housing. EC members on the commit-

tee are John McDonough, Pat
Schaefer, Christopher de Movellan,
and Powell Starks. Students are in-
vited to join. Interested students can
call Brandt Wood at 463- 9800.

IU president John Maxwell reported
on October, November, and Decem-
ber expenditures for the organization,
He said that approximately 250 people
have participated in intramural sports
for the TU, which finished fourth
overall for fall term, its best finish
ever. Maxwell said ‘‘quite a few”
freshman had expressed interest in the
Independent Union.

Rugby Club practice starts in a
week, and the organization needs
start-up money, according to in-
coming Rugby Club President John

Bookstore
Bargain Basement
Sale

$
op

¥
3" Up to 60% Savings

(And

Feb.
10 a.m. -2 p.m.

3&4

§

Ny
<

More!!)

All Sales Final, No Refunds or Exchanges,
Broken Sizes

Legters, who submitted a budget
request to the EC.

He said mismanagement of funds
started the club out with a negative
bank balance at the start of the year.
He recommended the purchase of new
goalposts, and identified medical sup-
plies, a telephone, and joining the
Virginia Referee Society as essentials
to starting the season.

Formal applications for the White
Book Revision Committee are avail-
able from Carol Calkins’ office. The
deadline for the applications is Feb. 1.

The EC will meet with the Campus
Life Committee Friday morning and
then with the Board of Trustees at
noon to discuss various ideas and con-
cerns about campus life.

 

¥
play at the festival in Pompe‘i and the
Aldeburgh Festival in England. He is
currently touring the U.S. in a tribute,
to George Gershwin called ‘‘Gersh-
win by Request.”

A native of Philadelphia, Bates be+
gan his study of music at the age of
six. He studied under renowned pia-
nist Natalie Hinderas at Temple Uni+
versity. 5

Bates has recorded on the Orion,
label and Performance Records. He is
scheduled to release his third record?
ing this spring. ‘

¥

music

scription of just what contemporary
music is, he replied, ‘‘There is such a
wide range of backgrounds...music
from all different nationalities, that is
it impossible to narrow it down to one
definition...we as a group always have
a focused image that reflects our phi+
losophy of music.”’

The group combined the vocals of

member Barbara Noska with various * ~

including woodwinds,

.

instruments
keyboards and even an accordion.

The workshop Relache held Wed-
nesday afternoon was designed to
show just what kind of work and prep-
aration goes into a presentation such
as the one in Lee Chapel. W&L is one
of many universities where the er-
semble’ performs on its tour of
schools, museums, and fine arts
centers. ’

 

¥

Straw !

(JContinued from page 1 ‘

 

Although candidates such as Pat
Robertson and Paul Simon did not
receive backing from W&L as a
whole, they are not without their sup-

porters.
According to freshman Andy
Nixon, ‘‘Simon's programs have

more to offer the U.S. than the other
candidates’ do,”’
Junior John Hamilton said he votetl

 

 

for Robertson because ‘‘he’s very > .

conservative. ’’

The PALMS

Super

Bowl

Sunday

Complimentary munchies
during the game.

Get the whole gang together
and come on down!

 
 

Bias

jContinued from page 1

 

She told how a particular mother
saw her son's drug paraphernalia
every day and didn’t realize what it
was.

She said education will teach what
drugs do to one’s body. Then, with all
the information, people can decide if
drugs are worth it.

Bias de-emphasized the role of
television and other influences which
have sometimes glamorized drugs and
alcohol.

“You have to make your own
choices, that cigarettes and alcohol
will not stop being sold,’’ said Bias.

She said she believes these shows
can sometimes be helpful because they

ae

often present real-life issues.

With more education will come
more awareness, Said Bias. It’s only
unfortunate that sometimes awareness
comes after a tragedy. The theory that
it can’t happen to me can prove to be
wrong and that is why going to these
seminars can be beneficial.

She said ‘‘Issues affect all of us,
even if we don’t have these prob-
lems.’

She also thinks the alcohol and drug
laws need to be strengthened, alth-
ough this will not make any difference
in the choices to be made. ‘We will
be held accountable ourselves.’’ Mrs.
Bias said she is in favor of government
drug programs, especially the Just Say
No program. ‘‘My hat is off to the
first lady’’, she replied. She said that
people are being influenced by this
program.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1988, Page 5

 

Law students hold buffet in Lee’s honor

By Marie Dunne
Co-Editor

Besides the Founder’s Day/ODK
Convocation, Lee’s birthday now has
another celebratory meeting: The Lee-
Jackson Dinner.

Last year W&L law students Mark-
ham Pyle and John Williamson held a
private dinner at the Alumni House
honoring Lee. This year, the dinner,
which attracted over 50 guests, was
held at the GHQ Tavern in the Uni-
versity Center.

The purpose of the dinner, de-
scribed by Williamson as a ‘‘gentle-
man’s buffet,’’ was to honor Lee and
his ideology of *‘heal the wounds.”’

““We wanted to pay tribute to men

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Workers frantically labor to finish the gatehouse of the as yet uncompleted Gaines

Hall.

 

Amnesty

 

C)Continued from page 3

support of rock musicians ‘‘brought
Amnesty to my attention, but was not
a motivating factor. The motivating
factor was my belief that I could do
something’’ to improve human rights.

Several of the students who attended
Tuesday’s meeting were members of
Amnesty at other colleges before
transferring to W&L, McNamara
said, adding that ‘‘anybody who has
past experience’’-or the intention of
helping is welcome to join the group.

Both McNamara and Brown said
they were surprised by the turnout for
the organizational meeting, but were
very excited about the prospects for
the group.

Future plans for the W&L chapter
include sponsoring speakers and films
about the work of Amnesty Interna-
tional. Brown said such programs
would be open to the public.

“It’s not just freeing people from
torture, it’s also educating people to
get over their indifference’ to the
world around them, McNamara said.

 

By Jessica Reynolds
Staff Reporter

 

Got the winter blues?

Is school really starting to get on
your nerves?

Trident, W&L’s women’s organiza-
tion, is sponsonng a party at Zoll-
man’s Pavilion Saturday with the Ec-
centrics from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.

‘It is the first school-wide event
this term and judging from the past
events, I think it will be a great suc-
cess,’’ said Alston Parker, president
of the organization.

Party-goers must purchase a ticket
prior to the party in order to come.
Guests are invited by invitation only.

Tickets are $8 a couple and $5 for
singles. T-shirts are two for $18 and
one T-shirt for $10.

J. William McClintock will be sworn in as a trustee during the
Board’s meeting this week.

Trident makes arrangements for Winter slosh

Parker stressed that alcoholic
beverages will not be served at the
party.

‘‘We do not want people confused.
Trident is not supplying alcohol or
mixers.’’ Cokes and food will be pro-
vided, she said.

Parker is very concerned about the
drinking situation at the pavilion be-
cause of the dangerous road leading to
the site.

‘I want to stress the fact that since
the party is being held at Zollman’s,
and people will probably drink be-
forehand, it is difficult to drive on that
road sober and probably more dang-

 

erous to drive after drinking,’’ she
said.

In the event that party-goers seem to
have too much to drink, Parker hopes
that others will take notice and pick a
sober driver. She said some people
have already stated that a designated
driver will be chosen.

There will be a security guard at the
gate to check the guest list, she said,
stressing the point that a ticket is
necessary to get into the party. All
women at the university (exchange
students and transfers included) are
invited and can bring date or guest.

During ticket sales, there will be a

who are not merely Southern, but
American heros, ‘* said Pyle.

Pyle said that he, Williamson, and
Brad Stengel formed a nine-member
committee last year to direct this
year’s dinner. The committee drew up
the guest list, which included under-
graduate and law students, alumni
from both W&L and VMI, and some
townspeople.

Guests, who came from every re-
gion of the United States, were selec-
ted for their interest in the South, said
Williamson. Several minority students
attended the black-tie dinner, but no
women were invited, according to
Williamson,

“*It’s not so much a conscious effort
to exclude women,”’ said Williamson,
“‘there’s not a conscious effort to

Gaines

 

 

(Continued from page 1

Beebe said he was pleased that
Buildings and Grounds had not gotten
any complaints about heating prob-
lems during these cold winter
months—a sign that there is no prob-
lem, according to Beebe.

Beebe stressed that Gaines Hall re-
sidents should contact B&G if any
heating problems occur rather than
suffer through the next few months in
the cold or invest in a space heater.

Ruscio said that everything ap-
peared to be going according to sche-
dule now for finishing the final tou-
ches on the gatehouse.

Presently, the Residence Life office
has begun receiving applications for
next year. Ruscio said there are
already more applications than avail-
able spaces. However, that number
should drop slightly as students’ plans
become more concrete for next year.

Gaines Residence Hall, which has
been under construction since 1986, is
named after Francis Pendleton
Gaines, a former president of W&L.

 

Trustees

(Continued from page 1

 

_ eording-to Hotchkiss, the dinner is not

a formal meeting and has no agenda,
but it is intended to give the two
boards a chance to meet socially.

The Board meets with both students
and faculty during its meetings on
campus.

“*At each meeting, the Board meets
with a section of the Washington and
Lee faculty,’’ said Hotchkiss, ‘‘This
board meeting will involve meeting
with all the Law School faculty.’

Twenty-four students, ‘‘generally
student leaders,’’ have been invited to
have lunch with the Board on Friday,
said Hotchkiss. Additionally, the
President of the Student Body attends
all of the Board’s meetings to express
students’ concerns, said Hotchkiss.

The Board will attend the speech by
Tom Wolfe tonight as a group. Wolfe,
a member of the Board, will give the
speech at 8:30 pm in Evans Dining
Hall.

The Board will conclude its meeting
Saturday afternoon.

sign-up sheet for decorating the pavi-
lion, which will be Saturday from 1
p.m. to3 p.m.

Snowflakes will be hanging from
the ceiling, white lights will adorn the
room and white-table clothes will be
placed on all the tables. And yes, there
will be heat.

Parker said ‘‘The Eccentrics are a
great dance band,”’ which should real-
ly keep the crowd going.

Pictures will be taken of revelers
throughout the party.

Parker anticipated a good turnout
and hopes everyone will have a great
time.

make a statement.’’ One of the din-
ner’s purposes is to allow men a
chance to dine together in the spirit of
camaraderie of a formal military din-
ner, said Williamson.

“It had nothing to do with any ide-
ology or chauvinism,’ said Pyle.

The function was a private dinner,
funded by the guests at $10 a head,
said Pyle. The committee rented both
the Alumni house and the GHQ
Tavern. The hosts cooked most of the
meal consisting of traditional South-
ern dishes and hired the GHQ staff to
help serve the dinner, said Pyle.

War redux

The Liberty Hall Volunteers, a
Washington and Lee Civil War
Reenactment unit, will be march-
ing in the Mock Convention Parade
on March 25, Anyone interested in
finding out more about this group
and/or marching in the parade
should contact David Burns or
John Hamilton, 463-5107. Uni-
forms and rifles will be provided.

Squash ’em

The W&L Squash Club is spon-
soring the club tournament for the
1988 Insilco National B/C/D
Squash Championships, Feb.
26-28. The Insilco tournament is
open to members of the W&L
community of all levels. There will
be two divisions, D for beginners
and C for more experienced
players. Also, the $5 entry fee in-
cludes a T- shirt for each player.
For more info. call Tim Phelan at
463-5429 or Steve Sears at
463-6630.

Men shown

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will show Men... (Ger-
many, 1985), a comedy of sexual
attitudes in contemporary society,
Friday and Saturday, Jan. 29 and
30. Showings will be at 8 p.m. in
Classroom A of Lewis Hall.

The film is in German, with Eng-
lish subtitles.

Dragons flown

Chinese New Year’s Dinner at
Evans Dining Hall on Friday, Feb.
5. There will be fireworks before
the dinner outside Dining Hall.
There will be a slide show about
Hong Kong in Northern Auditor-
ium on Sunday at 7:00 p.m. with a
reception afterwards.

Horsin’ around

The W&L Equestrian Club has
been presented with the opportun-
ity to ride with one of the best
equestrian programs in the coun-
try. Southern Sem is offering its
horses, facilities and coaches to
experienced riders at W&L Tues-
days and Thursday 3:30 - 4:30
p.m. Lessons will be on equitation:
flat and fences. Please contact
Carolyn Smith at 463-6601 or
Marguerite Ayers at 463-7550 by
Sunday.

New west

‘*Westworld’’ (US, 1973, color,
dir. Michael Crichton, star. Yul
Brinner/James Brolin/Richard
Benjamin, 91 min.) runs Fri.
2/5-Sat. 2/6, 7:30 p.m., 327
Commerce, sponsored by the Poli-

 

The celebration, which included a
cocktail party and dinner, was con-
cluded by ‘‘singing old Southern
songs and quite a lengthy round of
toasting,’’ said Pyle.

The committee hopes the dinner
will become a yearly tradition and
have formed a non-profit group, The
Lee-Jackson Dinner Society, to help
achieve that goal. The dinner was very
successful, said Williamson. Many
students have expressed interest in the
dinner, and the committee to head up
next year’s dinner has already been
formed.

General Notes

tics Dept. Public invited. Bryn-
ner’s most unusual acting role (as
the robot *‘Gunslinger’’), stunning
sets (Harold Lloyd’s estate as
backdrop) and a provocative as-
sault on progress make this an anti-
Robocop manifesto. Better than the
sequel ‘*Futureworld’’, Next en-
try: ‘*Ben-Hur’’, Mar. 11-12.

Delegate day

Your last chance to sign up as a
delegate for the 1988 Mock Demo-
cratic Convention will be next
Monday, February | at ‘‘Delegate
Day.”’ Sign up in front of the Co-
Op any time between 11 & 2 next
Monday.

Dance fever

The theatre division is planning
to venture into dance this spring
with a workshop led by a guest
choreographer which will culmin-
ate in a dance production. Anyone
interested in this workshop, which
can be taken for credit as part of
the total theatre course (139),
should see Dr. Gordon in duPont
Hall. Phone: 463-8862.

Boys’ club

On Jan. 31, The Harlem Boys’
Choir is giving a concert. This
concert is celebrating February as
Black History Month—concert of
classical, gospel, spiritual & con-
temporary music—35 member en-
semble. Free to W&L undergra-
duate and law students. Other tick-
ets, $10 adults, $4 students. For
more information contact Lee Ri-
Charde at 463-9670.

Debussy’s opera

Claude Debussy’s only com-
pleted opera, Pelleas Melisande,
will be broadcast for the first time
since 1983 Saturday, Jan. 30, at |
p-m. over W&L radio station
WLUR-FM (91.5). The broadcast
time of | p.m. is one hour earlier
than usual.

Poetry read

The English Club is sponsoring
an Open Poetry Reading, Wednes-
day, Feb. 3, 7:30 p.m., Payne 21.
All interested writers and listeners
are invited to participate.

Bulk up

Chris Walburgh will be sponsor-
ing several classes on the use and
benefits of Nautilus equipment.
The classes will be held on Tues-
day and Thursday, February 2nd
and 4th from 7-9 p.m. Each class
will begin on the half-hour. The
concept behind Nautilus, proper
technique, and what constitutes a
Nautilus workout will be stressed.

 

 

CRUISE SHIPS

NOW HIRING M/F
Summer & Career Opportunities

(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world
travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean,
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext.
495J.

 

 

 

  

pe

0-7

 

 
  

4¥h
BNA So 22 West Nelson Street
* Se ON Lexington, Virginia 24450

WINTER

Everything Excluding Jewelry

HABIT

SALE
2% off

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

 

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who
are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them in
their physical, mental and spiritual development. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities and be
dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her poten-
tial. College students, teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP
THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is

an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sail-
ing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing
and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further infor-
mation write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird, Clover,
S.C., 29710, 803-831-2121.

 

 

 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

 

 

  

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

  

Valley True Value Hardware

Thue Value

HAROWARE STORES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

     

 

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

  
 

 

 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1988

 

Hopkins is
‘best meet’
for women

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

 

 

The women’s swim team continued
its streak of outstanding personal per-
formances in last Friday's meet
against Johns Hopkins.

The team lived up to head coach
Page Remillard’s prediction that, after
proving its competence at the George-
town meet, W&L would again com-
pete well against similarly ranked
Hopkins. The final score was 98-78
for Hopkins—a considerable im-
provement over the Georgetown re-
sults.

Junior Nancy Whalen and freshman
Sharon Coleman managed to surpass
Remillard’s expectations. In the
100-yd. freestyle, Whalen swam a
personal best.

‘This is an amazing accomplish-
ment,”’ said Remillard, ‘‘since per-
sonal bests usually occur at the very
end of a season.”’

Coleman produced an equally im-
pressive achievement by breaking the
school record in the 200-yd. butterfly.

Remillard also commended the
efforts of sophomores Heather Logan
and Kris Amoroso.

Logan swam excellent races in the
100-yd. and 200-yd. breaststroke and
medley relay events and Amoroso also
performed strongly for W&L in the
100-yd. backstroke, the medley relay,
and the 200-yd. freestyle.

Remillard says it is evident that
Logan improves at every meet and he
has noted the progress of freshman
Rachelle Nock as well, who follows
Logan’s pattern. If Logan cuts off
three seconds, then so does Nock. In
fact, the entire team has been improv-
ing gradually.

All in all, Remillard believes Hop-
kins to have been ‘‘by far the best
meet for the women.”’

The team refuses to be beaten ba-
dly. However strong the opponent has
been, W&L has consistently given
them a tough, competitive race.

‘*The women always seem to disre-
gard the odds,’’ said Remillard.

The team’s record is now 2-3 and
considering the swimmers’ steady im-
provement, next Friday’s meet at
Shepherd could be W&L’s third vic-

tory.

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

If there’s ever been a sure thing,
this is it: the 1988 Washington and
Lee track team will have a winning
season. The Generals have finished
above .500 for each of the past 11
years, and 1988 shouldn’t be any
different.

Coming off conference cham-
pionships in indoor and outdoor
track in 1987, the Generals will
begin their new season this Satur-
day at the Virginia Tech Relays.

““We graduated some great ath-
letes last year,’’ said head coach
Norris Aldridge, ‘‘but we also have
some outstanding athletes back.”’

The return of senior Andrew
White should make the Generals
tough to beat in the hurdle events.
One of the team’s captains, White
holds the school record in the 110
and 400-meter hurdles. White was
named the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Runner-of-the-Year in
indoor and outdoor track in 1987.

The Generals should also be
strong in the sprints. Sophomore
Wes Boyd is back after winning the
100 and 200-meter races at the
conference championship meet as a

 

ene
Track squad looks excellent

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Men’s swimming in action against Johns Hopkins at Cy Twombly Pool.

Hoopsters hold off Sydney Tigers,
knock off 4th-ranked team in nation

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

Consider the fact that its leading
scorer fouled out with only nine
points. Consider the fact it made 19
turnovers. Consider the fact it blew a
17-point second-half lead. Consider
all this and you can see why it is diffi-
cult to believe the W&L basketball
team beat the Hampden-Sydney
Tigers 91-87 on the road Tuesday
night.

The win placed the General’s record
at a sparkling 14-3, 6-3 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference, and
ended a week in which W&L went
2-1, including a big win over the con-
ference-leading Bridgewater College
Eagles last Thursday and a frustrating
loss to Maryville on Sunday after-
noon.

Against Hampden-Sydney, senior
guard Steve Hancock, the team’s lead-
ing scorer, was saddled with foul
trouble throughout most of the game
and the Generals had to look to other
sources for point production. They got

freshman. Other returning sprin-
ters include senior John White and
sophomores Lee Fleming and Ri-
chard Tompkins.

The distance events should be
another strength for W&L. Senior
Richard Moore, conference cham-
pion in the 1500-meters last year,
returns along with senior Scott
Rippeon and junior Jamie Urso.

Sophomore Phil Sampson is
back after setting the school record
in the pole vault (14-6) in his first
collegiate meet, and seniors Joe Fi-
sher and Rob Williamson will also
compete in that event. Junior Fray
McCormick returns to defend his
ODAC title in the high jump.

The Generals seem most likely
to have problems in the throwing
events and in the long and triple
jumps. Tom Murray set the school
record in the shot put before he
graduated last May. The Generals
will look to junior Jim Ambrosini
to score points in the shot, discus
and javelin.

Senior Norm Sigler is experi-
enced in the long and triple jumps,
but the Generals will need more
scorers in those events. Despite
these weaknesses, Aldridge seems
optimistic. ‘‘If we stay away from
injuries, we should be successful
again.””

 

 

 

House
For Rent

1988-89 School
Year
4-5 persons
Call
463-6828

 

 

TYPISTS: Hundreds weekly
at home!
Write:
P.O. Box 17
Clark, New Jersey 07066

 

 

 

 

G Fassybu

Relaxing accommodations
for those with discriminating taste
2 miles North of W&L on Va. 39
463-1013

 

 

Merle Norman/Wolff Tanning

M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.
STUDENT RATES

Rt. 11 North

463-1782

Solar Nails/Manicures
5 visits $25.00
10 visits $39.00
25 visits $79.00
$6 per visit
Ist visit free
‘Free Visit to Tanning Bed With This Ad”’

 

it from junior guard Emmanuel
Klump, who scored a season-high 17
points on 7-9 shooting from the floor,
and freshman guard Mike Holton,
who matched Klump’s point total of
17, including four clutch free throws
in the last minute of play.

The game was marred with turn-
overs, with W&L committing 19 mis-
cues for the game. The Tigers didn’t
take good care of the basketball, mak-
ing 16 of their own with 14 of them
coming in the first half. On the
strength of those turnovers and the in-
side play of senior center Harmon
Harden—12 of his 15 points in the
first half—the Generals raced out front
to a 47-38 lead at halftime.

The lead would grow to as much as
17, with W&L holding onto a 57-40
advantage after freshman guard Jim
Casey nailed a three-point shot with
17:47 left to play. The Tigers,

however, would not fold as they
scored 10 straight points in the next
two minutes to get back in the ball-
game. H&S was hampered with the
loss of its starting center Orson Wil-
liams in the first half to a knee injury.

 

In a most bizarre turn of events, Wil-
liams injured his right knee when he
stood up at the scorer’s table to come
into the game.

With the loss of Williams, the
Tigers relied heavily on their leading
scorer, Ralph Baker. Baker would
score a game-high 30 points and
almost singlehandedly defeat W&L.
Scoring 11 of his team’s final 15
points, Baker was unstoppable down
the stretch. After hitting a long three-
pointer with 22 seconds left, W&L
found itself with only a two-point lead
at 87-85. But then Holton stepped up
to the line and ended all Tiger hopes
of pulling off a remarkable comeback.

The Generals began the week
knocking off Bridgewater 71-67 at
Bridgewater. The Eagles came into
the game as the 4th-ranked Division
III team in the nation, but W&L han-
dled them with ease.

Hammering the ball inside to Har-
den (15 points) and freshmen for-
wards Ed Hart (12 points) and Chris
Jacobs (10 points), W&L grabbed a

( )See Hoops, page 7

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Wrestling match from last Saturday’s W&L Invitational.

  

_Bg]».—_____
/ e
eorge’s Hairstylis
since 1963
directly behind Leggett’s

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell 2

   
        
   

 

 

Da Se s
EE\ECH ES IEE
(EEV EE EEIEE
EEVEEEEIEE:
EE
hke

 

 

re

”

enna

 

 

 

 

celleclleelice
OR |
1MiuliSt

Staunton, Va
885-3409

 

|
|
|
|

 

 

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious

Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian And

Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close

Reservations suggested

 

 

Strategy

helps

W&L beat JHU

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

A little strategic maneuvering may
have helped the W&L men’s swim-
ming team in last Friday’s 97-86 win
over Johns Hopkins at Cy Twombly
Pool.

*‘When Hopkins came down, our
game plan was that there was a possi-
bility they could beat us—looking and
comparing lineups,’’ said head coach
Page Remillard. ‘‘So we wanted to try
a few things. One thing was keeping
[sophomore]David Olson out of a
couple of meets.”

Two weeks ago, Remillard had Ol-
son and sophomore Adam Morgan sit
out the Shippensburg meet because he
felt their efforts weren’t going to
make a difference in the outcome
(W&L lost) and because it allowed a
couple of the other swimmers on the

ee —

a,

 

team the opportunity to compete
against a top-notch program. But there
was another motive behind the move.

‘Not swimming them in the meet
meant that Johns Hopkins would look
at the meet results for Shippensburg
and not see Olson or Morgan since
November,’’ said Remillard. ‘‘If we
felt that [Hopkins was] not sure that
Olson and Morgan were going to
swim, then we could predict what
their lineup was going to be. We end-
ed up being somewhat successful and
that made a big difference.”

Olson didn’t let his coach or team-
mates down, as he smoked the
200-yard backstroke in 1:57.81, qual-
ifying him for the NCAA Division III
championship in the event. Based on
last week’s national times, Olson’s
performance is the fastest in the coun-
try this year. Olson also qualified for

LlSee Swim, page 7

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Emmanuel Klump drives the lane against Maryville.

Wrestling takes second -
in W&L Invitational

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

The W&L wrestling team lost yes-
terday to Virginia Tech 27-14. After
the first four weight classes, the Gen-
erals had a 12-5 lead but Tech later
tied the score at 14-14 and won the
final three matches to secure the vic-
tory.

The Generals made a fine showing
this past weekend, grabbing 2nd place
in the eight-team W&L Invitational
held in the Warner Center.

Longwood proved too tough for the

rest of the field, winning the tourna- -

ment with a score of 79.5 points.
W&L followed with 51.5 points, with
Newport News Apprentice (46), Da-
vidson (40.75), Gettysburg (38.5),
Gardner-Webb (34), Johns Hopkins
(27.25) and Furman (15) rounding out
the remainder of the scoring.

“It was just hard to evaluate the
teams we were wrestling against in
this particular tournament because we
hadn’t seen them before,’ said head
coach Gary Franke. ‘*You just don’t
know their depth and how many good
wrestlers they had brought in their
freshman class. I felt Longwood was

probably the team to beat.”’

The Generals ;vere without the ser-
vices of senior Kevin McNamara,
who was out of action with the
chicken pox. Franke thought McNa-
mara, who wrestles at 158 or 167 Ibs,
would have possibly made the finals
and that his points would have made
the meet closer.

W&L did have one wrestler win his
weight class and also had several oth-
ers place in the top four. Senior Steve
Castle won the 118 lb. championship,
beating freshman teammate Larry Pil-
key with a technical fall. Pilkey was
wrestling as part of W&L’s ‘‘B’’
team. The other place-winners for the
Generals were senior John Lowe, 3rd
at 134; sophomore Lee Garlove, 3rd
at 142; freshman Mark Monahan, 4th
at 150; junior Mark Robertson, 2nd at
167; and Monoli (George) Loupassi,
3rd at 190.

“I think we got some nice perfor-
mances from Monahan in there at
150,”’ said Franke. ‘‘The kids who
placed are what’s important.”’

The team will be traveling to Long-
wood for a dual-meet invitational this
Saturday. W&L will be joined by
Longwood, Pembroke State, Norfolk
State, Newport News Apprentice,

Ferrum and Virginia State in the sev-
en-team meet.

   

  
 

 

 

FABULOUS
VALENTINES

Hours: Open Mon. - Sat. 10 - 5:30

 

BORN /&/ BRED, -INC.

 

  
   
 
 
  
 

» Db)
‘
*

 

¢

.

’

’

.

¥

@
 

Hoops

 

Continued from page 6

six-point lead early in the second half
and then never looked back. The Gen-
erals contained the ODAC’s second
leading scorer, Ramsey Yeatts, who
scored a tough 25 points on 10-21
shooting. Again, the Generals were
cool at the line—especially in the clos-
ing moments—hitting 14-18 free
throws in the second half.

W&L was not so cool on Sunday
afternoon against Maryville College,
losing 91-78. The Scots, arguably the
most athletic team in the conference,
shot the lights out on the Warner
Center floor, making 54 percent of
their field goal attempts, including 41
percent from three-point range.

Maryville was led by a balanced at-
tack with five players scoring in
double figures. Hancock led all
scorers with 21 points, as the Generals
dug themselves into a hole of 10
points or more three times during the
game and were unable to cut into the
deficit. Hancock’s three-pointer made
ita 81-78 game with 54 seconds show-
ing on the clock, but the Generals
would not score again and the Scots
were able to leave with a 13-point vic-
tory.

HOOKSHOTS—W&L has _ three
days off before playing Lynchburg on
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the Warner
Center. The Hornets are winless in the
conference but have one of its top
scorers in Terry Tabb... The annual
W&L Alumni basketball game will
precede Saturday’s game, which will
be broadcast live on 91.5 WLUR...
The Generals have a difficult schedule

Swim

STROSS

 

(JContinued from page 6

the NCAA’s in the 100-yard back-
stroke as a member of W&L’s victor-
ious 400-yard medley relay team
(4:25.39).

The Generals also received another
outstanding performance from soph-
omore Shawn Copeland. Copeland
continued his winning ways by taking
three more events, including the
200-yard freestyle (1:47.60),
200-yard butterfly (2:02.18) and the

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Chris Jacobs turns and shoots.

remaining as they battle for one of the
coveted top four spots in the confer-
ence (the top four teams have home-
court advantage for the opening round

200- yard breaststroke (2:15.05).
Remillard said that Copeland is
‘*knocking on the door’’ in qualifying
for the NCAA’s. The three wins
brings Copeland’s total to seven vic-
tories in W&L’s last three meets.

Remillard also mentioned the effort
of senior Simon Perez, who he said is
having a career-best season. Perez
won the 500- yard freestyle with a ca-
reer-best time. Remillard said Perez’
victory was one of the keys to the
meet.

Another key was the performance
of the women’s team, competing at
the same time as the men. Remillard

of the conference tournament). W&L
still has to play Roanoke and Maryvi-
lle on the road as well as Emory and
Henry at home...

£6 RCI LEDS ENE IA AEE DE OE
said that, even though the women
didn’t really have a chance to win
their meet, the excellent swims by
some of the individual women right
before each men’s event really helped
fire the male Generals up.

‘*You see one of your teammates
turn in an excellent performance be-
fore you swim, it really raises your
level of enthusiasm when you swim,”
said Remillard.

Both teams will travel together this
weekend. On Friday the Generals
swim against Shepherd and then on
Saturday, both teams will take on Get-
tysburg College.

 

Shades on
sports

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1988, Page 7.

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

 

‘Greek’ typifies prejudice

(Part two of two)

It is somewhat ironic that two days after the ill-fated
and ignorant remarks made by Jimmy ‘‘The Greek”
Snyder that a black quarterback, Doug Williams, should
help his team win the NFC Championship game over the
Minnesota Vikings and earn a trip to the SuperBowl. I
say ironic because Snyder made many comments that ac-
curately reflect the established stereotypical views of
black athletes and coaches, and Williams is proof posi-
tive that these views are dead wrong.

Snyder is one of the many members in the Al Cam-
panis Fan Club. These unfortunate souls for some reason
think that black people, although having the physical tal-
ents, lack the ‘necessities’ *(read: brains) to play the so-
called intellectual positions of quarterback in football or
to be able coach, manage or run a professional organiza-
tion as an executive officer.

How can anyone make such a generalization, especial-
ly when there are so many examples out there that totally
refute this assessment. Example 1: The head coach who
has won more football games than any other person on
this planet is black. Eddie Robinson of Grambling has
stood the true test of time and now he stands alone as the
winningest coach ever. Example(s) 2: Doug Williams,
Don McPherson, Randall Cunningham, Warren Moon.
All of these guys are quarterbacks—the intelligent posi-
tion in football—and all of them are black. But most im-
portant, all of them are successful. And let’s not forget
quarterbacks like Charles Thompson or Jamelle Holie-
way of Oklahoma. These players have to execute the op-
tion offense, one of the most difficult and complex
offenses you can run. Do these players lack the necessi-
ties to be able to call plays, read defenses and make
quick, split-second decisions just because they are black?
Example 3: Calvin Peete (you know, the golfer). Golf
has always been considered a game of nerves, concentra-
tion and strategy. For the past five years, Peete has con-
sistently been one of the PGA’s lowest scorers as well as
one of its most accurate shotmakers.

The sport of basketball is not innocent of this stereoty-
pical thinking either. Larry Bird is considered so great
because he’s so clever, so smart or so intelligent on the

floor. Magic Johnson on the other hand is able to do what
he does because he’s so athletic, so talented or so skillful.
Both statements are true but both fail to recognize that
Bird is also very athletic and that Johnson is also very in
telligent, on or off the court. The idea is that a white to
compete with a black, he must have the ‘‘mental edge”’
over him

All these prejudiced views stem into the realm of
coaching and management. There are no and never have
been any black head coaches in the NFL. There are, cur-
rently, no black managers in Major League Basehall.
There are only four black head coaches (three of whom,
have been extremely successful) in the NBA. There are
no and never have been any black head coaches in the
NHL. The problem in football and baseball have been the
most glaring. Instead of giving the positions to qualified
blacks, a predominantly white ownership is content with
hiring the same old white managers and head coaches.
How many teams does Pat Corrales have to manage be-
fore a qualified black is given the chance? How about Bil-
ly Martin? Or Marion Campbell in the NFL?

The Snyder incident will hopefully have an impact
much like Campanis’ idiotic statements: Owners and
management will wake up and realize that there are many
talented black coaches out there and all they need is a
chance; and coaches will realize that a great black athlete
does not have to be a defensive back, wide receiver or
running back, but has the brains to be a quarterback. The
racism continues in today’s sports. Let’s hope somebody
out there is willing to take the first step in ending it.

NOTES—Snyder’s firing was no surprise as CBS really
had no choice in the matter. Personally, I’m glad to see
‘‘The Greek’’ go. He was uninformative, unentertaining
and just plain lousy at picking football games. According
to Snyder’s percentages, you had a better chance of being
right by flipping a coin then listening to him... The
SuperBowl prediction: Redskins 28, Broncos 24. The
*Skins will put incredible pressure on John Elway and
Washington receiver Gary Clark will have a day that will
go down in the record books...

 

February 5, 1988

   
  
   

WHAT DR. RUTH
WON’T TELL YOU]

 
=BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1988

 

In a Galaxy not so far away

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

Driving south on central Virginia's
Route 11 near Natural Bridge, even
the most casual passerby cannot help
but notice the calico castle sitting back
in the woods. A Star Wars ‘‘storm-
trooper’’ guards the splotchy block
castle atop his futuristic land rover
while a lengthy quote from Socrates
concerning death stops even the most
fearless adventurer; at least for a se-
cond. The castle is not dangerous nor
is it abandoned. ‘*The Enchanted Cas-
tle’’ is home, workshop, and artistic
womb for a man who is living his fan-
tasies and making his dreams come
true.

Mark Cline has known since he was
seven that he had an extraordinary
creative gift but it was not until eight
years ago that he realized what he
could do with it. It was then in 1980
that he won second prize at a local art
show with four original monsters
casted from liquid fiberglass. After
the show, Cline quipped that if he con-
tinued he would have to open a mu-
seum someday. Two years later that
dream became a reality.

Cline opened the ‘‘Monster Mu-
seum”’ in 1982 hoping to attract the

traffic heading to the World’s Fair in
Knoxville, Tennessee and that’s exac-
tly what he did. Dressed in Safari at-
tire, Cline guided his guests around
his collection of classic monsters and
screen terrors as though he were the
great monster killer from the 1940's
horror flicks. Business boomed; that
is, until the end of the fair. Realizing
he would have to make a few changes
in order to stay in business, Cline ad-
ded some elves, goblins and lepre-
chauns to his ghoulish order and
reopened under a new name.

“The Enchanted Castle’’ was
opened in 1984 and enjoyed relative
success until its doors closed to the
public in 1986. After four years as cu-
rator of the fantastical museum, Cline
decided there was more to be done
with his talent and established a com-
pany designed to do free-lance sculpt-
ing for private clients called *‘Enchan-
ted Castle Productions’’ that he runs
today out of the old museum. While
the incorporation has given Cline the
opportunity to do outside work he has
never lost sight of his own dream; that
of doing what he loves for the good of
mankind.

‘Having a gift also means having a
reponsibility’’ he says. Looking at the
picture of a starving little girl on his
refrigerator, Cline explains his recent
realization that money spent on social
vices for a few days can feed his adop-
ted African daughter for a year.

‘Everything is an illusion’? says
Cline. “‘Money, Fame, Fortune are
all illusions. The only real thing in life
is love.”

Perhaps the love of his artistry is
what has sustained Cline for the last
eight years without any real contact
with the outside world. He doesn’t
have a radio, a television, or a tele-
phone in the castle and until recently
only had a clock with thirteen hours.
Strange? Bizarre, perhaps? Maybe.
But Cline is doing what very few peo-
ple ever get the chance to do: exactly
what he has always dreamed of. After
eight years of success however, it ap-
pears that Cline’s latest dream will
have to wait.

As a native of Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia, Cline wanted to do something to
aid his economy poor home town and
decided that using his talent would be
the best answer. He devised a plan to
construct a 60-foot tall, foam and
fiberglass bust of General ‘‘Mad An-
thony’’ Wayne, whom the town is
named after, on a crest at the north
end of the city. After seeing Mount
Rushmore a few years earlier, Cline
had dreamed of creating a sculpture
like it and the Waynesboro project
was his chance. After months of plan-
ning, drawing and making scale
models, Cline’s plan was ready to pre-
sent.

The total project, he said, would
cost between $80,000 and $100,000 to

Still Hot after 33

 

By Joel E. Miller
Staff Reporter

 

Rumors have great bearing on the
reputation of a band, according to
Doug Clark, leader and drummer of
Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts.

One specific rumor about the Hot
Nuts has endured for over thirty
years, he says. ‘‘People always ask
me about the gig where we wore clear
plastic tuxedos,’” he says.

“This supposedly happened in the
late 1950s. Can you imagine what
would have happened to us if we'd
worn them in front of 50 white frater-
nity brothers and their dates’’?

‘*We'd be buried twelve feet under-
ground if we had done that,’’ he
laughs. ‘*People probably confused us
with some ‘Greeks’ who dropped their
shorts during one of our sets.”’

Clark, a native of Chapel Hill,
N.C., founded the group while still a
junior in high school in 1955. Along
with his brother, John, the group was
called Doug Clark and the Tops, and
consisted of twelve high school band
members. Doug, being the drum
major, naturally had his name in the ti-
tle.

The Hot Nuts play a brand of music
that is difficult to define: some hits
from the 1950s, current Top 40 songs
and, the band’s trademark, a set best
described as simple melodies with lyr-
ics that would make Prince blush.

One such song, ‘‘Nuts, Hot Nuts’’,
is rife with lyrics poking fun at var-
ious fraternities and universities, as
well as members of the audience. For
example: ‘‘In the Garden of Eden was
a man named Adam/ He had his hands
on the loins of his madame/ He smiled
with mirth/ ‘Cause he knew that on
earth/ There were only two nuts/ And
he had ‘em.’

John says, ‘“We’ve always appealed
to the college crowd because we know
how they think, how they breath, and

they can handle it when we make fun
of them.”’

Doug’s interest in forming the band
was sparked in the eighth grade when
he worked in the Sigma Nu chapter
house at the University of North Caro-
lina. He says he heard three drunken

brothers singing some songs at one of

the parties, one of which came to be
their adopted theme song.

‘‘T found out they were paid $65 to

sing those songs,”’ he says, ‘‘and they

sounded pitiful. I told one of the

Alvin-Bennis

 

Visa

 

   

brothers, ‘You pay $65 for that?’”’

When the band began to play sets
around the Chapel Hill area, John
says, people began to associate the
band with the ‘‘Hot Nuts’’ song and,
he says, ‘‘That’s where the name
came from—it doesn’t have some se-
cret meaning or anything.’

The band toured primarily through-
out the Southeast during the late 1950s
and early 1960s, signed with Gross
Records (a subsidiary of Jubilee Re-
cords, now defunct), and released
nine albums between 1961 and 1970.
Four of the albums made the ranks of
the Top Ten college play for ‘‘Bill-
board’’ magazine in the mid- 1960s.

As the band’s show reputation in-
creased, so did the range of their
tours. One year in the 1960s saw them
play sets in Colorado, New Hamp-
shire, and Oklahoma. According to
Doug, ‘‘We’ve probably played for
more college students than any other
band in the world.”’

The group, at various times during

the 1960s, opened or headlined with
groups such as James Brown and the
Flames (‘‘One of the boys who used to
be in our band, J.C. Davis, got Jimmy
discovered,’’ John revealed), Tina
Turner, Sam and Dave, Otis Redding,
the Drifters, the Platters and Chuck
Berry.
John says Chuck Berry stole the
song ‘‘My Ding-A-Ling’’ from the
Hot Nuts, but the song remains in the
band’s repertoire. ‘‘We recorded it in
1961 and he recorded it in the late
1960s. I guess somebody liked his
version better.””

The Hot Nuts’ show became an an-
nual event in the 1960s for the crowds
that swarmed Dallas every second
weekend of October for the University
of Texas-University of Oklahoma
football game. ‘‘We’d headline in
front of 2000 people and they’d go
crazy when we'd do the Hot Nuts’
theme,’’ John says. *‘They’d moon us
and we’d laugh right back at them.”

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapter at
the University of Arkansas has booked
the Hot Nuts every spring for the past
ten years for their Possum Party, in
which the brothers and their dates all
dress up in tacky clothes (‘‘That’s
what they think is tacky,’ Doug
laughs). The woman elected as the
SAE queen is dubbed ‘*‘Doug’s Pos-
sum Queen.’’ Doug says if the Hot
Nuts are booked for the weekend the
SAEs have planned the party for,
social chairmen will reschedule the
party for another weekend so that the
Hot Nuts will be able to play.

The band currently consists of seven
members: Doug, drums; John, vocals

Winter
SALE

Continues with further Reductions
MasterCard

Choice

and T-shirt selling; Tommy Goldston,
piano (has been with group since
1957); Al Russell, saxophone (1973);
Sidney Brodi, guitar and vocals
(1982); Beverly Hight, vocals (1984);

build but was an excellent investment
when considering the economic bene-
fits it would bring to the community
such as tourism, souvenirs, and pub-
licity. The parking area for viewing,
in fact, was across the street from the
downtown Waynesboro business dis-
trict. The Waynesboro Chamber of
Commerce and civic organizations
strongly approved but the Waynes-
boro City Council was a different
story.

The City Council said that funds
had been allocated in other areas and
that they could not appropriate the
funds needed for the project. Cline
didn’t give up though. The National
General ‘‘Mad Anthony’’ Wayne His-
torical Society has offered to fund the
entire project. While Cline is unsure
about the project's next step, he is op-
timistic about its future. ‘‘Success is
figuring out what obstacles there are
in your way and working around
them,”’ he said.

Success for Mark Cline is living his
life doing what he loves to do. Great
wealth and fame aren’t preoccupations
or even thoughts. The art of creating
and entertaining is the mark of Cline’s
genius and whether it is seen in a
16-foot model of King Kong hanging
off a Texaco sign in Fairfield, Vir-
ginia or a Tyrannosaurus Rex guard-
ing the entrance to the Reptile Center
in Luray, Virginia, you can bet it’s no
illusion.

years

how many of these kids’ parents we’-
ve played for in 33 years. It does a lot
for me.”’

**We don’t want a pension,’* John
says. ‘‘We’ll play anywhere because

 

 

 

Business Card Photo

Clark and the Nuts still hot after 33 years on the road.

and Robert Brodi, bass (1987).

John likened the band’s reputation
to that of ‘‘Animal House,’’ which is
not too far from what many people in
the late 1970s apparently thought
when the movie ‘‘Animal House’’ was
released. He says, ‘‘A lot of people
called the producers (of ‘‘Animal
House’’) and wanted to know why we
hadn’t been used in the film instead of
Otis Day and the Knights.

“So the producers called us
up—they’d never even heard of us, I
bet—and said if they ever made a se-
quel they’d come get us.”’

But being on a movie soundtrack
may not seem so far off to the Hot
Nuts. The group has been approached
by Joel Sill, the executive music pro-
ducer for ‘‘La Bamba,”’ to record four
songs for the feature film ‘‘All-
American Hero,’’ to be released this
fall.

“You know we'll do the real popu-
lar songs,’’ John says, ‘‘and we'll
probably spice them up a little.”’

Adds Doug: ‘The guys making this
movie remembered seeing us play
somewhere a long time ago. And to
think the Hot Nuts had a lasting im-
pact on a movie producer.”’

Doug says, “‘I’m 39 years old, just
‘like Jack Benny, but I hope 20 years
down the pike that we’ll still be play-
ing for the college crowd. We'll go
over Hell and half of Georgia to play a
gig because that’s what we like to do.

‘‘Whenever we play I always look
out at the crowd and try to imagine

 
 

Student Charge

 
   

work is work, and all we try to do is
please the crowd. After all, 33 years
will learn you a lot, and if you don’t
know anything by then, you never
will.”’

[CALENDAR

Friday, January 29

Board of Trustees Meeting.
4-6 p.m. — OPEN HOUSE - ARLINGTON WOMEN’S CENTER.
University Center. Public invited.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY: Men...Classroom ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: MEN’S AND WOMEN'S SWIMMING:
Shepherd.

Saturday, January 30
Board of Trustees Meeting.
1 p.m. — OPERA BROADCAST: Debussy’s Pelleas et Melisande.
WLUR-FM (91.5).
6:30 p.m. — W&L NEWCOMERS: Meet at the home of Karl Wing-
ard. R.S.V -P,
7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Lynchbrug. Warner
Center.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY: Men... Classroom ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: MEN’S AND WOMEN’S SWIM-
MING: Gettysburg;
WRESTLING: Longwood Invitational
INDOOR TRACK: VMI Relays.

Sunday, January 31
2:30 p.m. —ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: The
Boys Choir of Harlem. Jackson Memorial Hall, VMI.

Monday, February 1
4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT 1EST-
ING CLINIC: Interest Test.
4:30 p.m. — FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium.

Tuesday, February 2
4 p.m. — CD&P TESTING CLINIC: Personality Test. Room 108,
cs.
5 p.m. — BIOL. LECTURE: ‘‘Biology of Sharks,’’ Dr. Frederic Mar-
tini; Cornell Univ, & U. of Hawaii. Parmly 305, public invited.
8 p.m. — CONCERT GUILD: Leon Bates, pianist. Lee Chapel.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: Basketball; Averett

Wednesday, February 3

7:30 p.m. — WRESTLING: Generals vs. Va. State. Warner Center.
9-12 p.m. — Wednesday Night in the GHQ. Waxing Poetics sponsored
by the SAB.

Thursday, February 4
4:45 p.m. —BIOLOGY/CHEMISTRY SEMINARY: ‘‘Transcript Fac-
tors Involved in Yeast Gene Expression,’’ Dr. Lawrence W. Bergman,
Ohio University, Room 305, Parmly Hall. Refreshments at 4:15. Public
invited.
7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Emory & Henry. Warner
Center.
8 p.m. — LECTUE: ‘‘What Next for S. Africa?’’ Neville Richardson,
Haverton. Visiting Prof. in Religion, Northern Aud., U. Library.

 

 

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. Billy and the Boingers Bootleg, by Berke Breathed. (Little,
Brown, $7.95.) Latest Bloom County cartoons.

2. Garden of Shadows, by C.V. Andrews. (Pocket, $4.95.)
Beginning of the horror that beset the Dollanganger family.

3. Wincimilts of the Gods, by Sidney Sheldon. (Wamer, $4.95.)
Story of a woman trapped by intemational conspiracy.

4. Whirtwind, by James Clavell. (Avon, $5.95.) Fictionalized epic of
the world-shattering upheaval in iran.

 

 

S. Paper Money, by Ken Follett (NAL/ Signet, $3.95.) Newly reissued
thier of the world of high finance and journalism.

6. Red Storm Rising, by Tom Clancy. (Berkey, $4.95.) Russians
hasaransboanten -

7. The Prince of Tides, by Pat Conroy. (Bantam, $4.95.) The beauty
of Gash Contien ans fe can ile of eet

8. The Hunt for Red October, by Tom Clancy. (Berkdey, $4.50.) The
incredible chase of a nuclear submarine. *

9. The Far Side Observer, by Gary Larson. (Andrews, McMeel,
$5.95.) Latest Far Side cartoon collection.

10. Fire, } $4.50,
Engiswoman une asin pt ft capo fi ne Save

 

 

 

 

 

 

New & Recommended

A perworal estecon of Menes Stestésy, SAU Gooksose
lronweed, by Wiliam Kennedy. (Penguin, $6.95.) Francis Pheian,
ex-baliplayer, part-time gravedigger, ful-me drunk, has hit botiom.
Now, 1938, he’s back in town trying to make peace with the ghosts of
the past and present.

The Pulitzer Prizes, by Kendall J. Wills, Ed. (Touchstone, $12.95.)
Here, from the brightest talents in joumnaiism today, are the newspaper
articles, photographs and cartoons chosen as the finest, most exciting
efforts of the year.

 

 

 

Career Expo

Going the extra mile, exceeding our customers’ expectations, that’s what
Barnett Banks is all about. We've never lost sight of our mission: to pro-
vide the most comprehensive financial services possible. Consequently,
Barnett’s people are chosen not just for their skills and talent, but for their
special qualities of dedication, pride and enthusiasm as well.

As Florida's largest bank with nearly 500 offices in that state alone, and a
strong presence in the Atlanta market, Barnett is backed by over $23-billion
in assets and continues to grow. In fact, our track record shows remark-
able progress in all areas with assets and net income, earnings and
market share on the rise.

If you'd be especially motivated by an aggressive, largely decentralized
organization in which extra effort is recognized and rewarded, consider
a future with Barnett. As we continue to expand our portfolio of services
throughout Florida and in Georgia, we'll need your drive for success.

So be sure to see our representatives, com-
ing to your campus on January 28, 1988,
and discuss our Management Associates

Program with them.

They will give you the

details that could get you started in an excit-
ing career with Barnett.

arnett Barnett Banks, Inc.

BV

An Equal Opportunity/
Affirmative Action Employer

We Set The Standard.

 
