 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

APRIL 28, 1988

 

 

“he
=
>

~

The Zeta Beta Tau house on Nelson Street.

Se
a :

~~

“

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

 

ZBT closes W&L chapter,
will reorganize next fall

 

By Michael Tuggle
Staff Reporter

 

The Zeta Beta Tau national head-
quarters confirmed plans this week to
close the fraternity’s W&L chapter at
the end of the 1987-88 academic year.

While rumors concerning the sol-
vency of W&L’s Alpha Epsilon chap-
ter of ZBT have circulated throughout
the year, all were unfounded until last
Tuesday when ZBT national expan-
sion consultant Scott Sherman infor-
med the W&L brotherhood that the
chapter would be closing this June.

According to Sherman, the Alpha
Epsilon chapter will close due to con-
cern from ZBT national over the di-
minishing number of brothers in the
house.

What the closing means to the cur-
rent brothers is that as of June | they

will conclude their active brotherhood
and will become ZBT alumni. While
they will no longer hold office or Rush
with the house, they will share all
privileges of ZBT alumni.

Concern for increasing the size of
the brotherhood has existed for the
last five years according to ZBT
President Ross Crichton, but ulti-
mately it was this year that turned out
to be the most critical. According to
ZBT Treasurer Jeffrey Norris, rep-
resentatives from national visited the
chapter in the fall and ‘‘encouraged”’
them to get 20 pledges from fall Rush.
Of the 17 men who attended ZBT
open houses during Rush this past fall,
only two pledged the house.

“‘National would have settled for
15,” said Crichton in retrospect, ‘‘but
anything less and they were going to
shut us down.”’

Chapter Vice-President Sean Reyn-

olds agreed that what originally came
across aS an encouragement to get
pledges was in reality an ultimatum

‘*At the beginning of the year they
[national] gave us an ultimatum
we didn’t get a certain number of
pledges they would close and recolon
ize,”” he said.

Though plans concerning Rush have
not yet been finalized, representatives
from ZBT national will be at W&L in
September looking for a group of stu
dents to colonize and reestablish a
ZBT chapter at W&L. If successful,
ZBT will be the first fraternity to co
lonize at W&L since Sigma Nu re
grouped in 1982.

While the brothers of ZBT under
stand the position of the national of
fice, they still question why the house
has to close. According to Norris, the

{_ [See ZBT, page 4

Survey finds varying degrees of support for coeducation

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Only 58 percent of nearly 1,000
W&L students who participated in a
recent survey said they personally
support coeducation at their school,
but more than 82 percent said the 1984
decision to admit women was in the
school’s best interest academically.

The study was conducted by socio-
logy Professor David Novack’s
research methods class during the last
week of February, and the results
were summarized in a 65-page report
released last week.

According to the report, nearly 65
percent of the freshmen surveyed said
W&L should have become coed,
compared to only 40 percent of the
seniors. About 60 percent of the soph-
omores and the same percentage of
juniors also said they personally sup-
port coeducation.

More than half the seniors sur-
veyed—55.1 percent—said they be-
lieve W&L should not have admitted
women, and about 26 percent of the
freshmen, 28 percent of the sopho-

mores and 32 percent of the juniors
also said they oppose coeducation.

The report said many seniors op-
posed coeducation because theirs was
the last all-male class to be admitted
and because ‘‘the Administration suc-
ceeded in alienating the senior class by
making reference to it as inferior...to
the Class of 1989.””

There was little difference between
classes on whether coeducation was in
the best interest of the school with re-
gard to academic standards. About 88
percent of the juniors, 86 percent of
the sophomores, 81 percent of the
freshmen and 74 percent of the seniors
said coeducation was in W&L’s best
interest academically.

Among the women surveyed, 10
percent said W&L should not have
gone coed, 86 percent supported coe-
ducation, and 4 percent expressed no
opinion. Support was above 80 per-
cent in all three classes of women sur-
veyed, but 14 percent of the sopho-
more women who responded said
W&L should not have admitted fe-
males, compared to 8 percent of the
freshman women and 5 percent of the
juniors,

French author, ‘58,
to give book signing

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-editor

 

Philippe Labro, French journalist,
filmmaker and author of L’Etudiant
etranger, or The Foreign Student, will
be on campus Thursday, May 5 to
help kick off Alumni Weekend with a
lecture and book signing session.

L’Etudiant etranger is based on La-
bro’s experiences as a Fulbright
scholar at W&L during the 1950s.

Labro, who will be celebrating his
30-year reunion with the rest of the
Class of °58, will give an address at
the opening assembly of alumni week-
end in Lee Chapel at 8:15 p.m.

Earlier Thursday, from 1:30 p.m.
to 3:00 p.m., he will be signing copies
of the soon-to-be-released English
translation of L’Etudiant etranger in
the bookstore.

The University Bookstore has made
arrangements to receive 500 copies of
The Foreign Student from Ballantine
Books, which is publishing the Eng-
lish translation in America, according
to Sue LaRue, general books buyer.
The Foreign Student will not go into
general release until June |.

Although the shipment of books has
not yet arrived, ‘‘We are waiting for
the book to be delivered and are anx-
iously optimistic,’” said Tidge Roller,
manager of the bookstore.

The book sells for $5.95,

L'Etudiant etranger spent 30 weeks
in the top ten of the French Best Seller
list, 16 weeks in the number one posi-
tion.

Labro said that while the book is
based on his experiences at W&L and
that his feelings for W&L are genuine,
the work is still fiction, according to
Dick Sessoms, director of alumni
programs, who has spoken with Labro
frequently in the past month.

L'Etudiant etranger never names
W&L as its setting, but it is quite spe-
cific in its references to the lives of
WAL students.

Whiffs of green grass and Pabst
Blue Ribbon beer bubbles; with the
metallic taste of the ice-cold can and
the effluvium of Caribbean spices that
the boys sprinkled all over themselves
on Saturday evenings when an entire
male community got dolled up and
powdered itself for the great rush
toward the nearby girls’ schools with
a 50 to a 100-mile radius...

the red clay on the cement foot-
bridge connecting the football field to
the gym....the hustle and bustle along
the Colonnade on a dazzling fall
morning, with the sun peaking over
Lee Chapel and glinting off the blades
Of grass...

The dean, Old Zack, and his profes-
sors in liberal arts and in journalism
had chided us through a program full
of challenges and experimentation.
Tolerance was the key word: we did
what we wanted to do. We created our
own radio shows and broadcast them
during off-peak hours at the local
station. We adapted short stories into
scenarios. The ‘‘Ring-tum Phi,’’ a
little four-page news sheet that we

| [See Labro, page 5

The men were split almost evenly
on the personal opinion question, with
47 percent supporting coeducation, 10
percent undecided and 43 percent op-
posed. About 55 percent of the senior
men surveyed said they believe W&L
should have remained all-male, com-
pared to only 38 percent of the fresh-
man men, 35 percent of the sopho-
mores and 43 percent of the juniors.

The report said these numbers show
“there is still latent animosity regard-
ing coeducation among the males.”’

On the question of whether coeduca-
tion is academically in W&L’s best in-
terest, women were all but unanimous
in their support. Of the 274 female re-
spondents, only one—a_fresh-
man—said the admission of women
was not good for the school academi-
cally. Less than 2 percent of the
women said they had no opinion.

Although the men were not as sup-
portive of coeducation as the women,
about 76 percent of the male respon-
dents said coeducation was in W&L’s
academic best interest. Approximately

14 percent said coeducation was not.»

good for the school academically,
while 10 percent had no opinion.

 

Of those men who said coeducation
was not academically good for W&L,
more than a third were seniors, nearly
30 percent were freshmen, about one-
fifth were juniors and the rest were
sophomores.

The report compared this year’s
study to the results of surveys conduc-

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The student survey found little
support for the creation of sorori-
ties and concluded that W&L stu-
dents, men and women, are satis-
fied with the present Greek system.

Only about 20 percent of those
students participating in the study
said W&L should have sororities,
while more than 43 percent of
those surveyed said it should not.
About 36 percent said maybe.

Half the women surveyed—136

 

ted two, four and eight years ago and
concluded that, ‘‘while the numbers
may not indicate a change in opinion
from 1986 to 1988, there is unmista-
kably [a] trend toward approval of co-
education.”’

According to a report on the 1980
study, more than 50 percent of the

out of 271—said W&L should not
have sororities, while only 15 per-
cent of the females supported the
idea. Among the men, 22 percent
said yes, 37 percent said maybe
and 41 percent said no.

The level of support for sorori-
ties is much smaller than what was
found two years ago. According to
a 1986 survey, 48 percent of the
students surveyed said they
favored sororities, 34 percent were
undecided and 18 percent were op-
posed.

The 1986 study found only slight
differences of opinion between

students surveyed said W&L should
become coed, and 43 percent said no.
Four years later, another study
found that only 42 percent of the re
spondents said women should be ad-
mitted, and 52 percent said no. But

(JSee Survey, page 5

 

Sororities not supported, says survey

men and women on the sorority
question, with females more likely
to say maybe but somewhat less
likely to say yes.

The report concludes that W&L
students are satisfied with the pre-
sent Greek system. ‘‘The women
definitely do not feel the need for
sororities, and the men also reflect
this sentiment, though to a lesser
degree,”’ said the report. “‘It is
thus not a question of fairness but
rather a measurement in the level
of student satisfaction, and the stu-
dents do not want what they do not
need.”

 

 

a er ae SS fT

 

Mo |

WA&L Photo

 

Philippe Labro

Lee-Jackson Classic ismore than just a game

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The W&L and VMI varsity lacrosse
teams will meet for only the third time
ever Saturday at 3 p.m., but this
contest between the two schools will
be much more than just another la-
crosse game.

Events leading up to the first annual
Lee-Jackson Classic began Monday
and will continue until Saturday night,
according to W&L Athletic Director
William McHenry.

‘*We think this event will be a great
way tO promote sportsmanship and
friendship between the two schools,”’
said McHenry.

The festivities began with a dinner
Monday night in Evans Dining Hall
for players, coaches and officials from
both schools.

Instead of the teams sitting at separ-
ate tables, the players ate together
with the seating alternating between
W&L and VMI players. The school’s
coaches and athletic officials _ sat
together as well.

The dinner was sponsored by the
city of Lexington, and City Manager
Joseph King said the Lee-Jackson
Classic is designed to benefit the city
as well as W&L and VMI.

“It’s an opportunity for the city and
the two schools to join together in an
event that’s enjoyable to the commun
ity,”’ said King, *‘we’re trying to de

a a et A RA NS ae

the role that the two schools
play in the quality of life in this area.”

The event is also an opportunity to
promote the sport of lacrosse, and
players from the two schools are con-
ducting clinics at the schools through-
out the week, said King.

The pre-game festivities continued
today with a luncheon on the W&L
front campus. Head coaches Dennis
Daly of W&L and Doug Bartley of
VMI were the main speakers at the
event, sponsored by the Rockbridge
Area Sports Club

Today's luncheon was designed to
promote ‘“‘town-gown relations’ as
well as sportsmanship and was open to
the public, said McHenry. Civic
leaders, area sports fans and school

officials were expected to attend.

W&L President John Wilson will
host a cocktail party tonight in Lee
House for coaches, athletic officials
and Lexington city officials, again
hoping to promote good relations be-
tween the two schools and the com-
munity.

Lexington Mayor Charles Phillips,
Jr., unveiled the Lee-Jackson Trophy
at the banquet Monday night and will
present it to the winning team after
Saturday's game.

The week ends with a reception
after the game in the Warner Center

for players from both teams and their

parents and coaches, hosted by Daly
and the W&L Athletic Department.

U.K. Embassy official
will kick off Brit Fest

 

By Marie Dunne
Co-Editor

 

The British are coming! And so are
British films, foods, and music.

This modern-day ‘‘British inva-
sion’’ is part of Brit Fest at W&L, or-
ganized by Oxford exchange student,
Kate Peppiatt.

Brit Fest will take place Sunday,
May | through Monday, May 9.

The first event of the week will be a
lecture by R. F. Cornish, the Counsel-
lor for Information from the British
Embassy in Washington D.C. Cor-
nish’s lecture, ‘Britain and NATO,”
will be in Northen Auditorium at 8
p.m. on Sunday, May 1. A reception
will follow in the Gaines Hall Gate-
house.

On Tuesday, May 3, members of
the faculty and student body will put
their dramatic talents to use in an
evening of British entertainment.
Professors Ed Craun, George Ray and
Elizabeth Morgan will give ‘‘mock-
serious’’ comic readings and several
groups of students will put on skits,
including some from, of course,
Monty Python, The new women’s
singing group Will sing British selec-
tions. Registrar Scott Dittman will do
an encore performance of his
“*modern Major General.’* The enter-

tainment begins at 8 p.m. in the
Gaines Hall Gatehouse.

On Wednesday, May 4, the G.H.Q.
will offer fish and chips for dinner and
will offer British beer at a reduced
price. There will also be British music
playing during dinner.

““Go UK: Visit the United King-
dom’’ is the theme of the presentation
on Thursday, May 5 in the Gaines
Hall lounges. The evening will feature
pictures, brochures, a travelogue and
a slide show. Veteran tourists will be
on hand to give tips on travel in
Britain, including what to see and
what to avoid. Following the presen-
tation, British films (comedies) will be
shown. Toasted English muffins and
flapjacks will jam will be served dur
ing the movies.

On Friday and Saturday nights,
May 6 and 7, the British film *‘A Pri-
vate Function’ will be shown in
Classroom A of Lewis Hall. The film
is sponsored in conjunction with the
W&L Film Society. Both ‘showings
will begin at 8 p.m.

Brit Fest will culminate with a
British Dinner in Evans Dining Hall.
The traditional English dinner will in-
clude Welsh Leek Soup, Roasted Stuf-
fed Chicken with Bread Sauce, Fish
and Chips, Shepherd’s Pie, broccoli

(See Brit, page 5

39 members of Class of ‘87
will return as 5-year seniors

 

By Alice Harrell
Staff Reporter

 

Thirty-nine seniors will not be gra-
duating with their class. According to
University Registrar Scott Dittman,
the students will be returning for
many reasons—not just because they
failed classes.

Of the 341 seniors registered for fail
term at the beginning of the 1987-88
school year, said Dittman, there are
only 302 today who are still active
seniors. That means some 39 seniors
during the course of the year ‘‘have
either disappeared and won't gra-
duate, or decided to graduate next
year,

The most likely reason for most of
these students to postpone graduating
is that they have failed a number of
courses that would have to be made up
next year, said Dittman. Some seniors

didn't get in all the academic require
ments to graduate, which they will
take either here next year or in sum
mer school, said Dittman.

Occasionally a student will decide
to change his major at a time when it is
way too late to fit in all the require
ments for that major, said Dittman
To finish these requirements, or to
fulfill general education or to retake
courses as mentioned before, the stu
dent may not necessarily need to stay
for another entire year. If all his re
quirements are fulfilled by the end of
the fall term of his fifth year, he may
graduate that December, said Ditt
man.

Usually, however, change of majors
occurs early enough that the student
can get all his major requirements in
by graduation. With fifth-year
seniors, said Dittman, ‘ |
a matter of ‘I tried and didn’t make it
rather than ‘I changed my mind’

its usuall
 

 

 

OPINION

 

Honor changes

The White Book Revisions Committee suggested several changes
in the W&L Honor System handbook when it submitted its report to
the Executive Committee Monday night.

The EC will vote on the revisions in two weeks.

One particular change which we support is included in the re-
visions to the philosophy section of the pamphlet. This change is the
one most affecting the basic premise of the W&L honor system.

The committee suggested that the clause, ‘‘persons attending
Washington and Lee will not lie, cheat, or steal’’ have a section ad-
ded—‘‘or commit untrustworthy acts’’. The paragraph would then
continue, ‘‘We do not think it is too much to ask that students do
their own work, represent themselves truthfully, act responsibly,
and claim only that which is their own.”’

This change would expand W&L’s honor system to include acts
which are not necessarily lying, cheating, or stealing, but which
violate the trust of the university community.

This change is necessary to continue the tradition of honor pro-
mulgated under the presidency of Robert E. Lee, that all W&L stu-
dents act with behavior suited to the gentleman.

What is this ideal to which we should aspire? What qualifies as
gentlemanly behavior on the W&L campus today? According to our
honor system, gentlemanly and trustworthy behavior is to be
defined by the current student generation.

Many acts which are not lying, cheating or stealing may be con-
sidered dishonorable. Is it honorable to break a commitment, to
reveal a secret which one had promised to maintain, or to write a
check for which one does not have the funds? Probably not.

Another consideration in this change is whether students will
misconstrue the revision to be a moral edict, allowing the EC to in-
flict its ideas of all aspects of proper conduct upon the students
which the EC members have been elected to represent.

This is an empty fear, for the White Book states, ‘‘The Honor
System is not intended to govern minor infractions of the Univer-
sity’s or society’s regulations, but only acts that indicate a student is
not worthy of trust by his or her peers.”’

The White Book Revisions Committee also made several sugges-
tions for improving the procedure for honor proceedings. Of parti-
cular interest are changes which would help an accused student and
the advocates for the accused develop a case. First, the process of
discovery will not depend upon the goodwill and good nature of the
EC president. As the White Book currently states, the accused and
advocates may not contact any EC witnesses before a closed hear-
ing, but the president has discretion over whether the accused may
receive ‘‘information which will allow the accused and his or her
advisor to better understand the reason a witness has been called by
the Executive Committee.’’ (1987-88 White Book, page 5). The re-
vision would require the president to turn over such information at
the request of the accused.

Another change would be beneficial to the accused in the event
of an EC executive session during a trial. Generally, such sessions
are called when the committee wants to vote on the case or discuss
its merits. The revision would allow the accused or the advocates to
request a conference with the student body president ‘‘outside the
presence of the remainder of the Executive Committee.’’ In addi-
tion, the accused and advocates would be allowed to remain in the
hearing room during an executive session.

These adjustments to the discovery and executive session rules
will result in honor proceedings which are even more fair and judi-
cial than those held under current guidelines.

Another improvement affects the advocate system. Many law ad-
vocates are concerned that the number of experienced advocates
diminishes if one or two years pass with few honor proceedings,
whether open or closed. The presence of a third advocate, solely for
the purposes of observation and training, will be allowed at the dis-
cretion of the EC president. This practice would increase the num-
ber of advocates who know about the workings of hearings and
trials, and can only result in a more effective system.

The Ring-tum Phi supports these revisions to the White Book, and
encourages students to read both the report of the revisions commit-
tee and the White Book as it stands, in order to better understand
our Honor System, one of the proudest traditions of Washington
and Lee University.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

 

NEWS STAFF

Co-Editors . Marie Dunne
David Emrich

News BGRGY sesicscicccvssocnsessessocsocccupsedennscebissceteceocsivece Peter Boatner

Sports RAMOK osisererserecceccsocsseorococessonee Mike Shady

Entertainment Editor Michael Tuggie

Patera PRy MENOe occscscscscsssccessesscovcscccsosesesessscsccvcososescosessesssseoscces Perry Hayes

OPINION PAGE STAFF

Editorial Page Editor ............ssssssesseevessssseneesseeeeensseneesesensenecees Margaret Pimbiett

Cartoonist ....000.ccccscescccccceccvecscersscoccosepsoscccconsconnoescoeosoeescescoeees Stephen Ingram

BUSINESS STAFF

Business Manager ...........sssccsccesssseeeecesssccccceeescesceseccessees

Advertising Manager

 

Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

How was
Sbar’s

break?

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

 

As I left Lexington for spring break
I anticipated entertaining week with
family, friends and gullible freshman
girls from my old high school. Like
most of my expectations these were
also 100 percent wrong. My week of
rest and recreation turned into what
can only be described as a hellish
nightmare. In fact, historians writing
biographies on my tragic life will
probably say, “‘Yes, Sbar getting cut
from the boy scouts in the third grade
did irreparable damage to his psyche
but the spring break of his freshman
year in college (1988) is what drove
the lonely journalist to suicide. Before
we discuss that terrible week in April
let us describe the man. Was he noth-
ing more than an unskilled writer or
was he a deranged drug-crazed
psychopath...”’

Before the historians analyze my re-
cent spring break, I would like to tell
the story in my own words. At first,
everything went fine. My family was
even giving me unprecedented respect
owing to their fear of turning up in
The Ring-tum Phi articles. Consider
this example to illustrate what I mean.

Mom: Jon, would you mind doing
the dishes?

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

 

 

**Hey, a White Book! Didn’t I read this freshman year?”’

 

 

 

Me: No, I don’t mind a bit. Besides,
I'll use this in an article sometime.

Mom: (remembering her tendency
as a gross, power-hungry family dicta-
tor who forces me to cook and clean
the house all spring break because she
wants to get back at me for the time
she spent cleaning my room at par-
ent’s weekend). On second thought,
I'll do the dishes. What time do you
want breakfast in bed tomorrow?

Problems started when I received an
invitation to attend a W&L Alumni
party to welcome high school seniors
who had recently been admitted. I
found out the hard way that the party
was bogus—a calculated scheme to
trap me. In retrospect, the invitation
should have tipped me off because at
the bottom someone had scrawled in
blood—‘‘Be there.”’

As I approach the party, I wondered
why the house looked dark and quiet,
but I kept walking anyway. I opened
the door expecting to be greeted by en-
thusiastic alumni congratulating me on
a year well done. The enthusiastic
alumni turned out to be a screaming
mob of khaki-clad right wing W&L
graduates armed with lead pipes,
baseball bats, broken bottles, ax han-
dies and other violence perpetrating
devices. (I also suspected that they
had been drinking). I knew from ex-
perience that an armed and dangerous
group of graduates hostile towards me
could only mean one thing—they had
read some of my articles. Before I lost
consciousness, I remember hearing
comments like, ‘*We have to kill him,
we’re the laughing stock of the uni-
versity. At the last reunion I went to I

was introduced as one of the people
who helped Jon Sbar get into W&L.”’

The W&L Alumni Chapter of Ta-
mpa, Florida interrupts this article to
respond to Mr. Sbar’s allegations.
Mr. Sbar has some sort of Walter Mi-
tty psychological fantasy that he’s im-
portant. The Tampa Chapter has been
using Mr. Sbar’s articles exclusively
for the purposes of house training pets *
and starting fires. Furthermore, we
did not invite Mr. Sbar to the alumni
party over spring break because we
forgot he was a W&L student.

Even though I was already in a body
cast from the alumni ‘‘party’’, my
week was destined to get worse. My
mother made the mistake of schedul-

(_JSee Shar, page 3

Senate should not ratify ‘terrible’ INF

 

MY VIEW
By John Roach

 

The United States Senate will soon
vote on whether to ratify the INF
treaty, which was agreed to last
December by President ‘Reagan and
General-Secretary Gorbachev. As
provided by the Constitution, it will
take 2/3 of the Senators to ratify this
“‘historic’’ treaty. The INF treaty is a
bad treaty and should not be ratified
by the Senate.

A brief background on the treaty
may be necessary for one to under-
stand exactly why this treaty is terri-
ble. The treaty provides for the elim-
ination of all intermediate nuclear for-
ces in Europe. This essentially covers
our Pershings in Western Europe and
the Soviets SS-20s located in Eastern
Europe. The treaty does not provide
for the destruction of a single nuclear
warhead, just for the elimination of
the missiles. This point is one of the
main fallacies surrounding the treaty.
Not one nuclear warhead will be des-
troyed and many people such as Sena-
tor Jesse Helms believe that the war-

To the Editors:

The Foxfield Racing Association’s Board of Di-

heads on the SS-20s could be compa-
tible with other Soviet weapons
systems. One may say this is a minor
point and that the provisions in the
treaty for verification will correct all
these lesser problems. But these veri-
fication procedures have just as many
flaws.

The verification procedures, which
President Reagan called ‘‘historic,*‘
are historic only in the sense that we
have been duped. The sites that can be
inspected are not randomly chosen
sites in the Soviet Union but only cer-
tain ones that the Soviets have chosen.
I am sure that we can trust the Soviets
to eschew illegal activities at sites that
are not included in the verification
visits. This question of trust is the bot-
tom line when analyzing the treaty.
We can really forget SS-5s, Persh-
ings, SS-20s, and the other details of
this treaty because in the end it will
not matter, for the Soviets will most
certainly violate the treaty’s prov-
isions.

How can we be sure? It seems that
one could just look back at the So-
viets’ record on past treaties and make
some easy conclusions. The Soviet
Union believes that treaties are a
means to reach an end, and this end is
world-wide domination. We must

learn from the past and see exactly
why a Soviet delegate to the Geneva
Summit stated, ‘‘Nations don’t neces-
sarily follow treaties when it’s not in
their national interest to do so.*‘ Let
us take a closer look at the history of
treaty making and treaty breaking of
the most deceitful country in modern
times.

This country which we are trusting
to abide by the provisions in the INF
treaty is the same nation that violated
the 1945 Yalta Agreement by denying
free elections in Poland. It is the very
same country which broke the Pots-
dam Agreement by occupying Eastern
Europe. And let us never forget their
flagrant disregard of international law
when they shot down KAL-007,
which was carrying many innocent ci-
vilians, including one of our most
patriotic Congressmen, Larry
McDonald. These are just a few of the
over 150 Soviet breaches of interna-
tional security agreements, and this
number doesn’t even include Soviet
violations dealing with arms control
agreements.

The following will shed light on
their compliance record with arms
control agreements. The record for
the Soviets in this field is no better.

LETTERS

 

ginia. Offenders of the laws, rules and regulations

on Race Day will be prosecuted.

They have disregarded many prov-
isions of the 1972 ABM treaty, and it
is generally accepted they have nine
significant violations of the ABM
treaty, perhaps best illustrated by the
blatant violation of the radar station at
Krasnoyarsk. The list goes on and on.
While stating their intentions of com-
plying with SALT I, they have come
close to ‘violating this treaty twenty
times and their compliance record
with the SALT I interim agreement is
just as shabby. I could fill this entire
newspaper with Soviet arms contro!
and international security breaches,
which began when the tyrannical reign
began in 1917 and continues until this
day.
Hopefully the above examples of
the Soviet Union’s blatant violations
of international agreements has shown
to what degree we can actually trust
them. The Soviet Union can’t be
trusted to any degree. We shouldn’t
make arms control agreements when
we know that the treaty will be broken
when the Soviets decide it is conven-
ient to do so. We should never ignore
history, we should learn from it.
When one looks at the history of the
Soviet Union and their record on fol-
lowing treaties one can easily see why
the INF treaty should not be ratified. _

Foxfield organizer warns of regulations

Brooke Tunley "91
Nelly Greene 90

A IE SE RSE Sa SE SED I LO ES REE CT EE

 

rectors again announce that due to recent changes
in the laws passed by the General Assembly re-
garding the new drinking age of 21, it will con-
tinue its cooperation this Spring Race with local
groups and authorities to enforce the laws prohib-
iting underage consumption of authorized bever-
ages. Foxfield announces it will, in conjunction
with authorities, prosecute any person who is seen
serving minors in violation of Virginia laws at this
Spring Foxfield Race and also persons who are
underage consuming alcohol on the premises.
This Race, the police and Foxfield will be assisted
by agents from the Alcohol Beverage Commission
of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Chairman of the Board of Directors, J. Benja-
min Dick, states that abuses during the past Fall
Race were nearly all cited in the college and uni-
versity sectors of the visitors on the premises.
However, the drinking laws and policy enforce-
ment will continue to apply across the board for
all patrons visiting the Spring Races. Police, ABC
agents, and Foxfield security shall be directed to
card any juvenile or other person of suspicious
behavior or causing disturbances by reason of any
substance abuse of seen to be under the influence
under the age of 21. Violators may be prosecuted.

Depending on the situation, warnings or sum-
mons may be issued to violators of the laws by the
police or ABC agents. Any person seen or obser-
ved serving minors will be immediately arrested
without a warning. Any person harboring beer
kegs found on the premises, the same will be conf-
iscated.

This notice will be sent to authorities of the col-
leges and universities from which students come
to visit the Races and to student leaders and organ-
izations of those institutions,

The Foxfield Races are to promote the sport of
steeplechasing with emphasis on equine races. It
is a wonderful day for many patrons, sponsors,
horse owners and jockeys interested in continuing
and promoting the sport of steeplechasing in Vir-

 

Foxfield Racing Association
J. Benjamin Dick, Esq.
Chairman of the Board
President

Women’s lax wants coverage

To the Editors:

Alright, we are not a varsity team this year; we
are only developmental varsity. The women’s la-
crosse team won our first three games and we now
have a record of 4-6. As this letter is being writ-
ten, we are preparing/hope to beat Virginia Tech.
Is it too much to ask to be mentioned in our il-
lustrious campus newspaper? We realize that the
paper may be short staffed, but the other athletic
events do manage to get covered. It is very surpr-
ising that at a school where men’s lacrosse is a
celebrated sport, the successful creation of a
women’s team doesn’t merit an article, at least, in
the paper. By writing this letter before our last
game, we do risk being reported on before our
season is completely over, what a_ terrifying
thought. We do not mean to be critical of the
paper as a whole, but even The Rockbridge
Weekly published a game photo. Our team has
worked very hard since official practices began on
February | under the expert coaching of Jan
Hathorn, and we believe that we deserve some to-
ken of recognition for our efforts. We hope that
the sports editor will take this as constructive
criticism, so that future newly created teams will
not be entirely neglected. We would like to thank
those fans who have attended our games thanks to
our word-of-mouth publicity.

Sincerely,

Barbara Ann Byington *89
Shannon K. Armstrong ’89
Melissa Jones *90

Ann Gregory °91

Sarah T. Allen °90

Melinda M. Conkling °91
Catherine B. Baillio ’90
Jennie Brent ’90

Katy Richard °91
Coach Janine Hathorn
Eleanore Robinson ’91
Donna Doughty ’91

Sue Watson ’91

Alexa Salzman ’89
Stephanie Shank ’91
Ashley Parsons ’89
Alston Parker ’89
Alisann McGloin '9]
Katy Roggenburk 91

A commitment to honor

To the Editor:

The Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Confer-
ence has just finished. We were invited, but for
the second time in eight years we did not attend.
We told them there would be a W&L contingent
but somehow the beaches of Florida and Bermuda
got in the way and, after all, what is a commit-
ment if you can’t break it. Never mind the fact
that they had provided room and board for the
W&L representation and had assigned them to
specific discussion tables. They will ask us again,
probably. But we will not accept over my signa-
ture again.

The honor code at W&L should include keeping
one’s word. A commitment is a commitment and
only a broken leg frees you from it. I hope this
message finds a home.

Milton Colvin
Professor of Politics
April 26, 1988

P.S. If we ever send another contingent, we
should rope them together and float them in from
the Chesapeake Bay.

 

 
|

-NEWS/OPINION

 

 

 

 

Sbar

(_] Continued from page 2

 

ing three medical appointments for me
on the same day despite the accepted
scientific fact that a person who has
three medical appointments in the
same week is legally insane.

First on my appointment list was the
eye doctor. Normally eye doctors
don’t dilate the eyes of patients who
drove to the office alone because it

impairs vision. Eye dilation is an un-
necessary procedure anyway, per-
formed only because it is painful, and
eye doctors, as a rule, are very sadis-
tic.

When my eye doctor found out I had
driven alone, he specifically dilated
my eyes. He also pretended not to no-
tice that the eye dilation acid had not
yet been diluted with water. As I stag-
gered out of his office half-blind and
screaming in pain, the eye doctor ad-
ded insult to my injury by offering to
sell me a comb and a certificate for

Health Festival
will help hearts

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

Members of all 17 fraternities, the
football team, the faculty, the women
students, the wrestling team, and
ROTC plan to jump to raise money for
the American Heart Association tom-
morrow from 12:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
The jump rope contest is a part of the
Health/Wellness Festival and Greek
Week.

Dean Anne Schroer Lamont, Chair
of the Health Education Committee,
and her committee members organ-
ized this event in conjunction with the
American Heart Association.

Says Schroer Lamont, ‘‘Jump rope
for Heart is a nationwide event desig-
ned to promote healthy hearts while
raising funds to support the American
Heart Association.”’

She has received special help from
Professor of Physical Education Norm
Lord and Carol Calkins from the Uni-
versity Center in helping to prepare a
three day program, which began yes-
terday, designed to promote health
and heart fitness. The events included
in the festival are: heart healthy menus
sponsored by the Co-op, Evans Din-
ing Hall, and the General Headquar-
ters Tavern; a luncheon special in the
GHQ for reduced money and points;
and from 8 o’clock to 10 o’clock on
Friday morning, handout information
on good health as well as free blood
pressure check-ups and _ blood
cholesterol level tests will be provided
for students and faculty.

Faculty members who are within
walking distance are asked to walk to
work since the jump rope contest will
take place (weather permitting) in the
parking lot in front of the gym. In case
of rain the event will be moved to the
inside of the gym.

Co-sponsored by the IFC as a part
of Greek Week, the fraternities are
expected to bring their flags and wear
fraternity colors and t-shirts. The
fraternity songs will be played starting
with Phi Kappa Psi, established first at
W&L, and ending with Chi Psi, estab-
lished most recently at W&L.

‘‘We want to establish team spirit
and a festival atmosphere,’’ says Cal-
kins. She said balloons, concessions
on sale for the spectators, and student
radio announcers keeping people
abreast of the events taking place, will
all help to promote a festive atmos-
phere.

Three awards will be given out at
the awards ceremony following the
contest. The Team Champion Award
will be presented to the team whose
six team members accumulate the
greatest amount of ‘‘jump time.’’ The
Individual Champion Award will be
given to the individual jumper who
jumps the greatest amount of time.
The team which raises the largest sum
of money for the American Heart As-
sociation will receive a special award.

The Heart Association is sponsoring
prizes according to how much money
an individual raises. When an indivi-
dual has raised five dollars in dona-
tions, he will receive a stadium
cup—$15= a jump rope, $35= a
T-shirt, $55= an aero disc, $85= a
watch, $125= an athletic bag, $175=
a hooded sweat shirt, $225= sweat
pants, $300= an ear phone AM/FM
radio.

Those who help plan the event
stress that the awards and prizes are
not the main focus of this contest, and
that all money is to be donated to the
American Heart Association in order
to provide funds for research and
other projects.

Calkins says the importance of the
Health/Wellness Festival is to ‘‘make
people aware of how important fitness
is for your health.”” ,

The American Heart Association
provides many programs which edu-
cate the public on how to prevent heart
disease and stroke, because according
to the Association, ‘‘Nothing kills
more than heart disease and strokes.
And nothing is more important than
preventing them.”

‘Rope skipping,”’ said Lord, ‘‘is a
good aerobic activity which promotes
cardio-respiratory endurance. It can
serve as a good warm up for any acti-

(See Jump, page 5

one hair cut from a barber who specia-
lized in helping people with hair
which causes them to be labelled as
social deviants.

After driving into a telephone pole,
I made it to my dermatologist. Only
after entering the office did I realize
that my dermatologist was in the
process of giving a seminar on
‘*Severe Acne Cases’’ and I was his
major case study. I became exhibit A
(for acne) in the discussion. Here’s an
example of one of the more polite
questions:

Doctor Mortibund (to my doctor):
Your subject’s (me) case of acne is the
most severe case I’ve ever seen. His
face looks worse than Hiroshima after
the atomic bomb!

My Doctor: (excited at the publici-
ty). Yes, Dr. Mortibund, isn’t it re-
markable.: Of course, the subject’s
poor personal hygiene is definitely a
factor in his acne. We have calculated
that he has washed his face only seven
times between 1980 and 1986.

Subject (me): Doctor, could you
lethally inject me with something in

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

the next 2-3 minutes.

The lethal injection wasn’t quite
lethal so I headed for the dentist. Inci-
dentally, look up acne in the recently
published World Book Encyclopedia
and you can see my face. At the den
tist, I reminisced on the good old days
when dental hygienists wore simple
white nurse outfits. My hygienist now
wears a lead radiation suit that left no
exposed skin and gold plated gloves
strong enough to resist knife blades.
Of course, the uniform’s highlight
was a platinum-based, fully spit-proof
face shield. My hygienist said the face
shield was top of the line. ‘‘It was
even tested with terrorist blow tor-
ches,”’ she bragged.

One thing that hasn't changed with
dental hygienists is their attitude. As
my hygienist dug into my gums with
her silver tipped battery powered ce-
ment drill (also top of the line equip-
ment) she initiated a friendly conver-
sation. :

Hygienist: You know it might help
if you start brushing.

Me: (accidentally spitting on her
shield). Honestly, I do brush my

teeth

Hygienist: Then maybe you should
start putting toothpaste on the brush.
By the way, has anyone ever told you
that you salivate heavily?

Me: Yes, my sexual therapist

Hygienist: You mean_ there's
someone in the world who is your
sexual therapist?!! And I thought I had
a hard job.

Me: Could I have some laughing
gas?

The last night of my spring break
was spent in a motel (not hotel) in
South Carolina. This motel was an
appropriate end to my vacation. The
place is beyond description but I'll
give the reader an idea of the place's
quality. I will describe the billboard
out front. Instead of advertising ‘‘Ca-
ble TV”’ or some other amenity. the
sign said ‘‘Beds Sink’’. At least now I
know never to stop at a place that costs
less for a night than a meal at Burger
King.

As I look back on my spring break I
regret that I didn’t donate my body to
science for the week.

Lexington city elections
will include five from W&L

aad
By Pat Lopes
Staff Reporter

 

Four W&L faculty members and a
student are candidates in the May 10
Lexington city elections.

Edward Henneman, associate
professor of law, is challenging in-
cumbent Charles Phillips, professor of
economics, in the race for mayor.

Markham Pyle, a law student, Brian
Shaw, W&L’s news office director,
and Tom Imeson, chemistry professor
and director of the computer center
are all running for city council.

‘*We have to find some way of in-
creasing our revenues if we are to stay
an independent city,’’ said Henne-
man.

Sources of income for the city bud-
get is the major concern for all the
candidates.

Faced with a lack of funds, the city
may lose its independent status. If so,
local concerns, such as city schools,

housing, the: police force, and the

‘maintenance of roads instead will be
‘administered by Rockbridge County.
Real estate taxes constitute a large
part of the city budget. W&L, one of
the city’s largest landowners, has a
tax-exempt status. However, W&L
requires a substantial amount of city
services. Yet, student purchasing
power and rent payments are the main
pillar of life for many local mer-
chants, who in turn pay city taxes.
Nevertheless, members of the W&L
community should realize that they
too have responsibilities toward the
future of the city, said Henneman.
‘*The university and its students are

members of a larger community,”’
says Henneman. ‘‘Students should be
interested in the community here.”’
Henneman said he wants to head a
new administration at city hall which
will help create the needed economic
growth.

Charles Phillips, current mayor of
Lexington, has been in office for 17
years.

He pointed out that W&L student
activities traditionally create traffic,
noise, and security problems, espe-
cially near fraternity houses.

He said he hopes students will fol-
low in the successful footsteps of this
year’s Interfraternity Council and
Mock Convention Committee.

Those organizations, said Phillips,
worked closely with police, and kept
community security problems to a
minimum.

 

Charles Phillips

Pyle says he has a unique view of
the Lexington community. He is a
student, a resident, and a business
owner.

He came here from Texas in 1980
as an W&L undergraduate. Since then
he has obtained his undergraduate de-
gree here and gone on to W&L’s law
school from which he will graduate in
June. He is also part-owner of The
Flipside.

**As someone connected to and de-
voted to W&L, but not tied to it for
my bread and butter, I might have a
clearer picture on how to deal with
problems,”’ said Pyle.

He said he thinks W&L has a re-
sponsibility toward the future of the
city. Pyle pointed out the service fee
W&L pays to the city, the only legal

CJSee Election, page 4

 

Edward Henneman

Olympic equestrian trials are to be held at horse center

From Staff Reports

 

Four hours of the most spectacular
dressage to be found in our nation will
be featured each day of the
VADA/Southwest Spring Dressage
and Olympic Qualifying Competition,
April 30 and May 1, at the Virginia
Horse Center.

Twenty horses and riders will per-
form Grand Prix dressage tests from
approximately 11 a.m. until approxi-

 

 

i

 

Howard Persinger, freshman *‘‘I
haven't decided yet really. I'm going
to Foxfield, I guess, just because I'd
rather go to Foxfield.”’

 

mately 3 p.m., Saturday and Sunday.

Riders who seek a position on the
U.S. dressage team that will compete
in the Olympics at Seoul this summer
must prove themselves in competition
at two of the 10 designated qualifying
competitions held across the nation
through the end of May.

At the end of May, the United States
Equestrian Team (USET) Dressage
Selection Committee will meet and
review the performance records of
candidates. (In the case of candidates

   

Interviews by
Marie Dunne

 

 

 

 

 

Rochelle Nock, freshman ‘*Actua-
lly, this weekend I’m going home.”’

who have spent the year competing in
Europe, their records at similar
European shows will be reviewed. )

The committee will then draw up a
list of about ten candidates who will
be invited to compete at USET head-
quarters in Gladstone, N.J., June
18-19 and June 25-26, for four spots
on the dressage team.

Thirteen of the 37 candidates will
compete to qualify at the show in Lex-
ington. Five of the 13 candidates who

will compete at Lexington were
among the 12 candidates the USET
named in November to its ‘‘long list’’
of strongest contenders.

Candidates competing at Lexington
who will be of particular interest to
Virginians are Linda Konigsberg of
Great Falls, Kerry Robertson of
Vienna, Heidi Ericksen formerly of
Radford, and Lendon Gray, a former
USET member who graduated from
Sweet Briar College, later taught rid-

 

TALKBACK

Which will you attend, the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic or the Foxfield races, and why?

 

David Gilmore, freshman ‘I'm
going to Foxfield just because that’s
where most of my friends are going.’

 

 

ing at Sweet Briar College and whose
mother is from Virginia.

Many other top dressage riders who
are not seeking positions on the U.S.
Olympic team will also compete at the
show in classes at the Grand Prix and
cight lower levels.

Together, the show's four dressage
arenas will be the scene of 480 per-
formances, including four Grand Prix
freestyle rides (about 4 p.m., Sunday)
set to music.

 

 

 

Tina Vandersteel, sophomore
‘I’m going to Pi Phi’s Rose Ball, so I
guess T'll be going to the lacrosse

game.”

Photos by
Hank Mayer

 

 

 

 

Bergstrom
searches

for early
birds

By David Emrich
Co-Editor

 

 

Getting up early on Saturday morn
ing is for the birds.

Just ask W&L Professor of Biology
Peter Bergstrom. In the law school
parking lot every Saturday morning at
7:30 a.m. Bergstrom begins a weekly
ornithological tour of the area.

Bergstrom said he got the idea for
the bird walks during a class he taught
ina W&L summer program.

Bergstrom said as part of a course
he taught on birds he started taking the
students on bird walks.

“‘] got a very positive response to
the bird walks [during the summer
program] and thought why not try it
during spring term?”’

He said spring is the best time for
bird walks because during this time of
year ‘‘you see a lot of migrating birds
that you wouldn't otherwise see. —

‘*You also see the males in their
breeding plumage which makes them
a lot easier to identify,” Bergstrom
said.

Bergstrom said he offered the bird
walks last year but the response
wasn't as good as he had hoped. This
year’s response, he said, is much bet-
ter.

“I think part of the problem last
year was that I started the bird walks
at 7:00 a.m.,”’ said Bergstrom.

**There were people coming from a
long way away and to be here at 7:00
they probably had to get up a little too
early.

‘*This year I moved the time back to
7:30 and the response has been bet-
ter..””

Twenty people went on last Satur-
day’s walk, he said.

Bergstrom said there will be bird
walks through May 21 but that he
wouldn’t be conducting the walk on
May 7. He explained he would be at
‘‘a bird meeting’ and that a friend of
his would take his place.

As a final note Bergstrom added,
“The bird walk will be cancelled in
event of rain, ©

‘There aren't many birds out when
it rains, and anyway, your binoculars
have a way of fogging up.”

SAB tells EC
of FD profits

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

 

John Green Robinson, freshman
“I'm going to Foxfield because there
are better looking babes.’

 

Fancy Dress paid for itself this
year.

The Student Activities Board ap-'
peared before the EC Monday night
for a budget hearing. ,

The SAB representatives reported.
that FD came in $7000 under budget.
and they raised an extra $4000.

This extra money, they said, will al-
low the SAB to go beyond just the one

band they now have scheduled for the ,

G.H.Q.
G.H.Q. lacrosse and The Ring-tuin
Phi also came up for budget hearings.
G.H.Q. lacrosse is in
trouble, but their last game is in sight.

financial *

The Ring-twn Phi is in excellent fi-

nancial shape, thanks partly to alumni
subscriptions.

 

|
“|
|

Matt Bevin, junior **Actually, I!
probably won't go to either, because}
I'll probably be in Annapolis waterskt-|
ing. If I were here, I would probably |
go to the lacrosse game.”’

 

 

 

 

 
INTENTIONAL SECOND EXPOSURE

OPINION

 

Honor changes

The White Book Revisions Committee suggested several changes
in the W&L Honor System handbook when it submitted its report to
the Executive Committee Monday night.

The EC will vote on the revisions in two weeks.

One particular change which we support is included in the re-
visions to the philosophy section of the pamphlet. This change is the
one most affecting the basic premise of the W&L honor system.

The committee suggested that the clause, ‘‘persons attending
Washington and Lee will not lie, cheat, or steal’’ have a section ad-
ded—‘‘or commit untrustworthy acts’. The paragraph would then
continue, ‘‘We do not think it is too much to ask that students do
their own work, represent themselves truthfully, act responsibly,
and claim only that which is their own.”’

This change would expand W&L’s honor system to include acts
which are not necessarily lying, cheating, or stealing, but which
violate the trust of the university community.

This change is necessary to continue the tradition of honor pro-
mulgated under the presidency of Robert E. Lee, that all W&L stu-
dents act with behavior suited to the gentleman.

What is this ideal to which we should aspire? What qualifies as
gentlemanly behavior on the W&L campus today? According to our
honor system, gentlemanly and trustworthy behavior is to be
defined by the current student generation.

Many acts which are not lying, cheating or stealing may be con-
sidered dishonorable. Is it honorable to break a commitment, to
reveal a secret which one had promised to maintain, or to write a
check for which one does not have the funds? Probably not.

Another consideration in this change is whether students will
misconstrue the revision to be a moral edict, allowing the EC to in-
flict its ideas of all aspects of proper conduct upon the students
which the EC members have been elected to represent.

This is an empty fear, for the White Book states, ‘‘The Honor
System is not intended to govern minor infractions of the Univer-
sity’s or society’s regulations, but only acts that indicate a student is
not worthy of trust by his or her peers.’’

The White Book Revisions Committee also made several sugges-
tions for improving the procedure for honor proceedings. Of parti-
cular interest are changes which would help an accused student and
the advocates for the accused develop a case. First, the process of
discovery will not depend upon the goodwill and good nature of the
EC president. As the White Book currently states, the accused and
advocates may not contact any EC witnesses before a closed hear-
ing, but the president has discretion over whether the accused maj
receive “information which will allow the accused and. his.
advisor to better understand the reason a witness has been called
the Executive Committee.’’ (1987-88 White Book, page 5). The re-
vision would require the president to turn over such information at
the request of the accused.

Another change would be pebeficial: to the-accused in the event
of an EC executive session during a trial. Generally, such sessions
are called when the committee wants to vote on the case or discuss.
its merits. The revision would allow the accused or the advocates to
request a conference with the student body president ‘‘outside the
presence of the remainder of the Executive Committee.’’ In addi-
tion, the accused and advocates would be allowed to remain in the
hearing room during an executive session. —

  
 

These adjustments to the discovery and executive session rules
will result in honor proceedings which are even more fair and judi-
cial than those held under current guidelines.

Another improvement affects the advocate system. Many law ad-
vocates are concerned that the number of experienced advocates
diminishes if one or two years pass with few honor proceedings,
whether open or closed. The presence of a third advocate, solely for
the purposes of observation and training, will be allowed at the dis-
cretion of the EC president. This practice would increase the num-
ber of advocates who know about the workings of hearings and
trials, and can only result in a more effective system.

The Ring-tum Phi supports these revisions to the White Book, and
encourages students to read both the report of the revisions commit-
tee and the White Book as it stands, in order to better understand |
our Honor System, one of the proudest traditions of Washington
and Lee University.

neler ee eee
The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEWS STAFF
Co-Editors Marie Dunne
David Emrich
News Editor Peter Boatner
Sports Editor Mike Shady
Entertainment Editor Michael Tuggle
Photography Editor Perry Hayes
OPINION PAGE STAFF
Editorial Page Editor Margaret Pimblett
Cartoonist Stephen Ingram
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ..........0ccssescsorsesesserseresecsesscesssssseeesssesseecsesesseenees -Jason Faust
Advertising Manager Alan Hinkle
Circulation Manager .........:ssscccssseescorssserssescescsensvescssseecsosoossssonees Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters te the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring4tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

How was
Sbar’s

break?

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

 

As I left Lexington for spring break
I anticipated entertaining week with
family, friends and gullible freshman
girls from my old high school. Like
most of my expectations these were
also 100 percent wrong, My week of
rest and recreation turned into what
can only be described as a hellish
nightmare. In fact, historians writing
biographies on my tragic life will
probably say, ‘‘Yes, Sbar getting cut
from the boy scouts in the third grade
did irreparable damage to his psyche
but the spring break of his freshman
year in college (1988) is what drove
the lonely journalist to suicide. Before
we discuss that terrible week in April
let us describe the man. Was he noth-
ing more than an unskilled writer or
was he a deranged drug-crazed
psychopath...’’

Before the historians analyze my re-
cent spring break, I would like to tell
the story in my own words. At first,
everything went fine. My family was
even giving me unprecedented respect
owing to their fear of turning up in
The Ring-tum Phi articles, Consider
this example to illustrate what I mean.

Mom: Jon, would you mind doing
the dishes?

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

 

 

‘*Hey, a White Book! Didn’t I read this freshman year?”’

 

 

 

Me: No, I don’t mind a bit. Besides,
I'll use this in an article sometime.

Mom: (remembering her tendency
as a gross, power-hungry family dicta-
tor who forces me to cook and clean
the house all spring break because she
wants to get back at me for the time
she spent cleaning my room at par-
ent’s weekend). On second thought,
I'll do the dishes. What time do you
want breakfast in bed tomorrow?

Problems started when I received an °

invitation to attend a W&L Alumni
party to welcome high school seniors

who had recently been admitted. I
pcabeastcaal ves epee pel
was bogus—a calculated scheme to
trap me. In retrospect, the invitation
should have tipped me off because at
the bottom someone had scrawled in
blood—‘‘Be there.”

As I approach the party, I wondered
why the house looked dark and quiet,
but I kept walking anyway. I opened
the door expecting to be greeted by en-
thusiastic alumni congratulating me on
a year well done. The enthusiastic
alumni turned out to be a screaming
mob of khaki-clad right wing W&L
graduates armed with lead pipes,
baseball bats, broken bottles, ax han-
dies and other violence perpetrating
devices. (I also suspected that they
had been drinking). I knew from ex-
perience that an armed and dangerous
group of graduates hostile towards me
could only mean one thing—they had
read some of my articles. Before I lost
consciousness, I remember hearing
comments like, ‘“We have to kill him,
we’re the laughing stock of the uni-
‘versity. At the last reunion I went to I

was introduced as one of the people
who helped Jon Sbar get into W&L.”’

The W&L Alumni Chapter of Ta-
mpa, Florida interrupts this article to
respond to Mr. Sbar’s allegations.
Mr. Sbar has some sort of Walter Mi-
tty psychological fantasy that he’s im-
portant. The Tampa Chapter has been
using Mr. Sbar’s articles exclusively
for the purposes of house training pets
and starting fires. Furthermore, we
did not invite Mr. Sbar to the alumni
party over spring break because we
forgot he was a W&L student.

Even though I was already in a body
cast from the alumni ‘‘party’’, my
week was destined to get worse. My
mother made the mistake of schedul-

(See Shar, page 3

Senate should not ratify ‘terrible’ INF

 

MY VIEW
By John Roach

 

tor Jesse Helms believe that the war-

heads on the SS-20s could be compa-
tible with other Soviet weapons
systems. One may say this is a minor
point and that the provisions in the
treaty for verification will correct all
these lesser problems. But these veri-
fication procedures have just as many
flaws.

The verification procedures, which
President Reagan called ‘‘historic, *
are historic only in the sense that we
have been duped. The sites that can be
inspected are not randomly chosen
sites in the Soviet Union but only cer-
tain ones that the Soviets have chosen.
I am sure that we can trust the Soviets
to eschew illegal activities at sites that
are not included in the verification
visits. This question of trust is the bot-
tom line when analyzing the treaty.
We can really forget SS-5s, Persh-
ings, SS-20s, and the other details of
this treaty because in the end it will
not matter, for the Soviets will most
certainly violate the treaty’s prov-

How can we be sure? It seems that
one could just look back at the So-
viets’ record on past treaties and make
some easy conclusions. The Soviet
Union believes that treaties are a
“means to reach an end, and this end is
world-wide domination. We must

learn from the past and see exactly
why a Soviet delegate to the Geneva
Summit stated, ‘‘ Nations don’t neces-
sarily follow treaties when it’s not in
their national interest to do so.‘ Let
us take a closer look at the history of
treaty making and treaty breaking of
the most deceitful country in modern
times.

to abide by the provisions in the INF
treaty is the same nation that violated
the 1945 Yalta Agreement by denying
free elections in Poland. It is the very
same country which broke the Pots-
dam Agreement by occupying Eastern
Europe. And let us never forget their
flagrant disregard of international law
when they shot down KAL-007,
which was carrying many innocent ci-
vilians, including one of our most
patriotic Congressmen, Larry
McDonald. These are just a few of the
over 150 Soviet breaches of interna-
tional security agreements, and this
number doesn’t even include Soviet
violations dealing with arms control
agreements.

The following will shed light on
their compliance record with arms
control agreements. The record for
the Soviets in this field is no better.

LETTERS

 

They have disregarded many prov-
isions of the 1972 ABM treaty, and it
is generally accepted they have nine
significant violations of the ABM
treaty, perhaps best illustrated by the
blatant violation of the radar station at
Krasnoyarsk. The list goes on and om.
While stating their intentions of com-
plying with SALT I, they have come
close ‘to 'vidlating this treaty twenty
with the SALT I interirit agreement is
just as shabby. I could fill this entire
newspaper with Soviet arms contro}
and international security breaches,
which began when the tyrannical reign
began in 1917 and continues until this
day.

Hopefully the above examples of
the Soviet Union’s blatant violations
of international agreements has shown
to what degree we can actually trust
them. The Soviet Union can’t be
trusted to any degree. We shouldn’t
make arms control agreements when
we know that the treaty will be broken
when the Soviets decide it is conven-
ient to do so. We should never ignore
history, we should learn from it.
When one looks at the history of the
Soviet Union and their record on fol-
lowing treaties one can easily see why
the INF treaty should not be ratified. _

 

Foxfield organizer warns of regulations |

To the Editors:

The Foxfield Racing Association's Board of Di-
rectors again announce that due to recent changes
in the laws passed by the General Assembly re-
garding the new drinking age of 21, it will con-
tinue its cooperation this Spring Race with local
groups and authorities to enforce the laws prohib-
iting underage consumption of authorized bever-

‘ages. Foxfield announces it will, in conjunction
with authorities, prosecute any person who is seen
serving minors in violation of Virginia laws at this
Spring Foxfield Race and also persons who are
underage consuming alcohol on the premises.
This Race, the police and Foxfield will be assisted
by agents from the Alcohol Beverage Commission
of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Chairman of the Board of Directors, J. Benja-
min Dick, states that abuses during the past Fall
Race were nearly all cited in the college and uni-
versity sectors of the visitors on the premises.
However, the drinking laws and policy enforce-
ment will continue to apply across the board for
all patrons visiting the Spring Races. Police, ABC
agents, and Foxfield security shall be directed to
card any juvenile or other person of suspicious
behavior or causing disturbances by reason of any
substance abuse of seen to be under the influence
under the age of 21. Violators may be prosecuted.

Depending on the situation, warnings or sum-
mons may be issued to violators of the laws by the
police or ABC agents. Any person seen or obser-
ved serving minors will be immediately arrested
without a warning. Any person harboring beer
kegs found on the premises, the same will be conf-
iscated.

This notice will be sent to authorities of the col-
leges and universities from which students come
to visit the Races and to student leaders and organ-
izations of those institutions.

steeplechasing with emphasis on equine races. It
is a wonderful day for many patrons, sponsors,
horse owners and jockeys interested in continuing
and promoting the sport of steeplechasing in Vir-

 

The Foxfield Races are to promote the sport of

ginia. Offenders of the laws, rules and regulations
on Race Day will be prosecuted.
Foxfield Racing Association
J. Benjamin Dick, Esq.
Chairman of the Board
President

Women’s lax wants coverage

To the Editors:

Alright, we are not a varsity team this year; we
are only developmental varsity. The women’s la-
crosse team won our first three games and we now
have a record of 4-6. As this letter is being writ-
ten, we are preparing/hope to beat Virginia Tech.
Is it too much to ask to be mentioned in our il-
lustrious campus newspaper? We realize that the
paper may be short staffed, but the other athletic
events do manage to get covered. It is very surpr-
ising that at a school where men’s lacrosse is a
celebrated sport, the successful creation of a
women’s team doesn’t merit an article, at least, in
the paper. By writing this letter before our last
game, we do risk being reported on before our
season is completely over, what a terrifying
thought. We do not mean to be critical of the
paper as a whole, but even The Rockbridge
Weekly published a game photo, Our team has
worked very hard since official practices began on
February | under the expert coaching of Jan
Hathorn, and we believe that we deserve some to-
ken of recognition for our efforts. We hope that
the sports editor will take this as constructive
criticism, so that future newly created teams will
not be entirely neglected. We would like to thank
those fans who have attended our games thanks to
our word-of-mouth publicity.

Sincerely,

Barbara Ann Byington '89
Shannon K. Armstrong °89
Melissa Jones '90

Ann Gregory ’91

Sarah T. Allen ’90

Brooke Tunley '91
Nelly Greene ’90
Melinda M. Conkling ’91
Catherine B. Baillio "90
Jennie Brent "90
Katy Richard ’91
Coach Janine Hathorn
Eleanore Robinson ’91
Donna Doughty ’91
Sue Watson ’91
Alexa Salzman ’89
Stephanie Shank ’91
Ashley Parsons ’89
Alston Parker ’89
Alisann McGloin ’91
Katy Roggenburk ’91

A commitment to honor

To the Editor:

The Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Confer-
ence has just finished. We were invited, but for
the second time in eight years we did not attend.
We told them there would be a W&L contingent
but somehow the beaches of Florida and Bermuda
got in the way and, after all, what is a commit-
ment if you can’t break it. Never mind the fact
that they had provided room and board for the
W&L representation and had assigned them to
specific discussion tables. They will ask us again,
probably. But we will not accept over my signa-
ture again.

The honor code at W&L should include keeping
one’s word. A commitment is a commitment and
only a broken leg frees you from it. I hope this
message finds a home.

Milton Colvin
Professor of Politics
April 26, 1988

P.S. If we ever send another contingent, we
should rope them together and float them in from
the Chesapeake Bay.

 

 
 

 

IAT NRO RLS YR ~*~

SF SRS ek i ray

CP GRP Py RYT!

ee eee, ee

 

NEWS/OPINION

Sbar

C) Continued from page 2

 

ing three medical appointments for me
on the same day despite the accepted
scientific fact that a person who has
three medical appointments in the
same week is legally insane.

First on my appointment list was the
eye doctor. Normally eye doctors
don’t dilate the eyes of patients who
drove to the office alone because it

impairs vision. Eye dilation is an un-
necessary procedure anyway, per-
formed only because it is painful, and
eye doctors, as a rule, are very sadis-
tic.

When my eye doctor found out I had
driven alone, he specifically dilated
my eyes. He also pretended not to no-
tice that the eye dilation acid had not
yet been diluted with water. As I stag-
gered out of his office half-blind and
screaming in pain, the eye doctor ad-
ded insult to my injury by offering to
sell me a comb and a certificate for

Health Festival
will help hearts

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

Members of all 17 fraternities, the
football team, the faculty, the women
students, the wrestling team, and
ROTC plan to jump to raise money for
the American Heart Association tom-
morrow from 12:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
The jump rope contest is a part of the
Health/Wellness Festival and Greek
Week.

Dean Anne Schroer Lamont, Chair
of the Health Education Committee,
and her committee members organ-
ized this event in conjunction with the
American Heart Association.

Says Schroer Lamont, ‘‘Jump rope
for Heart is a nationwide event desig-
ned to promote healthy hearts while
raising funds to support the American
Heart Association.’’

She has received special help from
Professor of Physical Education Norm
Lord and Carol Calkins from the Uni-
versity Center in helping to prepare a
three day program, which began yes-
terday, designed to promote health
and heart fitness. The events included
in the festival are: heart healthy menus
sponsored by the Co-op, Evans Din-
ing Hall, and the General Headquar-
ters Tavern; a luncheon special in the
GHQ for reduced money and points;

and from 8 o’clock to 10 o’clock on

Friday morning, handout information
on good health as well as free blood
pressure check-ups and blood
cholestero) level tests Ayil'be provided
for students and faculty.

Faculty members who are within
walking distance are asked to walk to
work since the jump rope contest will
take place (weather permitting) in the
parking lot in front of the gym. In case
of rain the event will be moved to the
inside of the gym.

Co-sponsored by the IFC as a part
of Greek Week, the fraternities are
expected to bring their flags and wear
fraternity colors and t-shirts. The
fraternity songs will be played starting
with Phi Kappa Psi, established first at
W&L, and ending with Chi Psi, estab-
lished most recently at W&L.

“‘We want to establish team spirit
and a festival atmosphere,’’ says Cal-
kins. She said balloons, concessions
on sale for the spectators, and student
radio announcers keeping people
abreast of the events taking place, will
all help to promote a festive atmos-
phere. ;

Three awards will be given out at
the awards ceremony following the
contest. The Team Champion Award
will be presented to the team whose
six team members accumulate the
greatest amount of ‘‘jump time.’’ The
Individual Champion Award will be
given to the individual jumper who
jumps the greatest amount of time.
The team which raises the largest sum
of money for the American Heart As-
sociation will receive a special award.

The Heart Association is sponsoring
prizes according to how much money
an individual raises. When an indivi-
dual has raised five dollars in dona-
tions, he will receive a stadium
cup—$15= a jump rope, $35= a
T-shirt, $55= an aero disc, $85= a
watch, $125= an athletic bag, $175=
a hooded sweat shirt, $225= sweat
pants, $300= an ear phone AM/FM
radio.

Those who help plan the event
stress that the awards and prizes are
not the main focus of this contest, and
that all money is to be donated to the
American Heart Association in order
to provide funds for research and
other projects.

Calkins says the importance of the
Health/Wellness Festival is to ‘‘make

people aware of how important ‘fitness “housing, the~ police force, and the

is for your health.”’ , -

The American Heart Association
provides many programs which edu-
cate the public on how to prevent heart
disease and stroke, because according
to the Association, ‘‘Nothing kills
more than heart disease and strokes.
And nothing is more important than
preventing them.”’

‘*Rope skipping,’’ said Lord, ‘‘is a
good aerobic activity which promotes
cardio-respiratory endurance. It can
serve as a good warm up for any acti-

(See Jump, page 5

one hair cut from a barber who specia-
lized in helping people with hair
which causes them to be labelled as
social deviants.

After driving into a telephone pole,
I made it to my dermatologist. Only
after entering the office did I realize
that my dermatologist was in the
process of giving a seminar on
**Severe Acne Cases’’ and I was his
major case study. I became exhibit A
(for acne) in the discussion. Here’s an
example of one of the more polite
questions:

Doctor Mortibund (to my doctor):
Your subject’s (me) case of acne is the
most severe case I’ve ever seen. His
face looks worse than Hiroshima after
the atomic bomb! _

My Doctor: (excited at the publici-
ty). Yes, Dr. Mortibund, isn’t it re-
markable” Of course, the ‘subject's
poor personal hygiene is definitely a
factor in his acne. We have calculated
that he has washed his face only seven
times between 1980 and 1986. ~

Subject (me):: Doctor, could you
lethally inject me with something in

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

the next 2-3 minutes.

The lethal injection wasn't quite
lethal so I headed for the dentist. Inci-
dentally, look up acne in the recently
published World Book Encyclopedia
and you can see my face. At the den-
tist, I reminisced on the good old days
when dental hygienists wore simple
white nurse outfits. My hygienist now
wears a lead radiation suit that left no
exposed skin and gold plated gloves
strong enough to resist knife blades.
Of course, the uniform’s highlight
was a platinum-based, fully spit-proof
face shield. My hygienist said the face
Shield was top of the line. ‘‘It was
even tested with terrorist blow tor-
ches,’’ she bragged.

One thing that hasn't changed with
dental hygienists is their attitude. As
my hygienist dug into my gums with
her silver tipped battery powered ce-
ment drill (also top of the line equip-
ment) she initiated a friendly conver-
sation.

Hygienist: You know it might help
if you start brushing.

Me: (accidentally spitting on her
shield). Honestly, I do brush my

teeth.

Hygienist: Then maybe you should
start putting toothpaste on the brush.
By the way, has anyone ever told you
that you salivate heavily?

Me: Yes, my sexual therapist.

Hygienist: You mean there's
someone in the world who is your
sexual therapist?!! And I thought I had
a hard job.

Me: Could I have some laughing
gas?

The last night of my spring break
was spent in a motel (not hotel) in
South Carolina. This motel was an
appropriate end to my vacation. The
place is beyond description but I'll
give the reader an idea of the place’s
quality. I will describe the billboard
out front. Instead of advertising ‘*Ca-
ble TV" or some other amenity. the
sign said ‘*Beds Sink’’. At least now I
know never to stop at a place that costs
less for a night than a meal at Burger
King.

As I look back on my spring break I
regret that I didn’t donate my body to
science for the week.

Lexington city elections
will include five from W&L

 

By Pat Lopes
Staff Reporter

 

Four W&L faculty members and a
student are candidates in the May 10
Lexington city elections.

Edward Henneman, associate
professor of law, is challenging in-
cumbent Charles Phillips, professor of
economics, in the race for mayor.

Markham Pyle, a law student, Brian
Shaw, W&L’s news office director,
and Tom Imeson, chemistry professor
and director of the computer center
are all running for city council.

‘*We have to find some way of in-
creasing our revenues if we are to stay
an independent city,’’ said Henne-
man.

Sources of income for the city bud-
get is the major concern for all the
candidates.

Faced with a lack of funds, the city
may lose its independent status. If so,
local concerns, such as city schools,

4 maintenance of roads instead will be
‘administered by Rockbridge County.
Real estate taxes constitute a large
part of the city budget. W&L, one of
the city’s largest landowners, has a
tax-exempt status. However, W&L
requires a substantial amount of city
services. Yet, student purchasing
power and rent payments are the main
pillar of life for many local mer-
chants, who in turn pay city taxes.
Nevertheless, members of the W&L
community should realize that they
too have responsibilities toward the
future of the city, said Henneman.
‘*The university and its students are

members of a larger community,”’
says Henneman. ‘‘Students should be
interested in the community here.’’
Henneman said he wants to head a
new administration at city hall which
will help create the needed economic
growth.

Charles Phillips, current mayor of
Lexington, has been in office for 17
years.

He pointed out that W&L student
activities traditionally create traffic,
noise, and security problems, espe-
cially near fraternity houses.

He said he hopes students will fol-
low in the successful footsteps of this
year’s Interfraternity Council and
Mock Convention Committee.

Those organizations, said Phillips,
worked closely with police, and kept
community security problems to a
minimum.

 

Charles Phillips

Pyle says he has a unique view of
the Lexington community. He is a
student, a resident, and a business
owner.

He came here from Texas in 1980
as an W&L undergraduate. Since then
he has obtained his undergraduate de-
gree here and gone on to W&L’s law
school from which he will graduate in
June. He is also part-owner of The
Flipside.

**As someone connected to and de-
voted to W&L, but not tied to it for
my bread and butter, I might have a
clearer picture on how to deal with
problems,”’ said Pyle.

He said he thinks W&L has a re-
sponsibility toward the future of the
city. Pyle pointed out the service fee
W&L pays to the city, the only legal

OSee Election, page 4

 

Edward Henneman

Olympic equestrian trials are to be held at horse center

From Staff Reports

 

Four hours of the most spectacular
dressage to be found in our nation will
be featured each day of the
VADA/Southwest Spring Dressage
and Olympic Qualifying Competition,
April 30 and May 1, at the Virginia
Horse Center.

Twenty horses and riders will per-
form Grand Prix dressage tests from
approximately 11 a.m. until approxi-

“4
s1”
T Saas
; vl

 

 

 

Howard Persinger, freshman ‘‘I
haven't decided yet really. I'm going
to Foxfield, I guess, just because I'd
rather go to Foxfield.”’

 

mately 3 p.m., Saturday and Sunday.

Riders who seek a position on the
U.S. dressage team that will compete
in the Olympics at Seoul this summer
must prove themselves in competition
at two of the 10 designated qualifying
competitions held across the nation
through the end of May.

At the end of May, the United States
Equestrian Team (USET) Dressage
Selection Committee will meet and
review the performance records of
candidates. (In the case of candidates

  

 

Interviews by
Marie Dunne

 

 

 

Rochelle Nock, freshman ‘‘Actua-
lly, this weekend I’m going home.”’

who have spent the year competing in
Europe, their records at similar
European shows will be reviewed.)

The committee will then draw up a
list of about ten candidates who will
be invited to compete at USET head-
quarters in Gladstone, N.J., June
18-19 and June 25-26, for four spots
on the dressage team.

Thirteen of the 37 candidates will
compete to qualify at the show in Lex-
ington. Five of the 13 candidates who

will compete at Lexington were
among the 12 candidates the USET
named in November to its ‘‘long list’’
of strongest contenders.

Candidates competing at Lexington
who will be of particular interest to
Virginians are Linda Konigsberg of
Great Falls, Kerry Robertson of
Vienna, Heidi Ericksen formerly of
Radford, and Lendon Gray, a former
USET member who graduated from
Sweet Briar College, later taught rid-

 

TALKBACK

 

 

David Gilmore, freshman ‘I’m
going to Foxfield just because that’s
where most of my friends are going.”’

 

 

 

 

Tina Vandersteel, sophomore
**I’m going to Pi Phi’s Rose Ball, so I
guess Tul be going to the lacrosse
game."’

ing at Sweet Briar College and whose
mother is from Virginia.

Many other top dressage riders who
are not seeking positions on the U.S,
Olympic team will also compete at the
show in classes at the Grand Prix and
eight lower levels.

Together, the show's four dressage
arenas will be the scene of 480 per-
formances, including four Grand Prix
freestyle rides (about 4 p.m. , Sunday)
set to music.

 

SRO Roe RNR CRP REO TES SE CTE ES
Photos by

Hank Mayer

 

Which will you attend, the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic or the Foxfield races, and why?

 

 

 

Bergstrom
searches

for early
birds

By David Emrich
Co-Editor

 

 

‘walks last year but the response

eventof rain

Getting up early on Saturday morn-
ing is for the birds.

Just ask W&L Professor of Biology
Peter Bergstrom. In the law school
parking lot every Saturday morning at
7:30 a.m. Bergstrom begins a weekly
ornithological tour of the area.

Bergstrom said he got the idea for
the bird walks during a class he taught
ina W&L summer program.

Bergstrom said as part of a course
he taught on birds he started taking the
students on bird walks.

‘I got a very positive response to
the bird walks [during the summer
program] and thought why not try it
during spring term?”’

He said spring is the best time for
bird walks because during this time of
year “‘you see a lot of migrating birds
that you wouldn't otherwise see.

‘**You also see the males in their
breeding plumage which makes them
a lot easier to identify,’’ Bergstrom
said.

Bergstrom said he offered the bird

wasn’t as good as he had hoped. This
year’s response, he said, is much bet-
ter.

“I think part of the problem last
year was that I started the bird walks
at 7:00 a.m.,’’ said Bergstrom.

‘*There were people coming froma
long way away and to be here at 7:00
they probably had to get up a little too
early.

‘*This year I moved the time back to
7:30 and the response has been bet-
ter!”

Twenty people went on last Satur-
day’s walk, he said.

Bergstrom said there will be bird
walks through May 21 but that he
wouldn’t be conducting the walk on
May 7. He explained he would be at
‘‘a bird meeting’’ and that a friend of
his would take his place.

As a final note Bergstrom added,
“‘The bird walk will be cancelled in

 

‘There aren't many birds out when
it rains, and anyway, your binoculars
have a way of fogging up.”’

SAB tells EC
of FD profits

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

 

La

John Green Robinson, freshman
‘I'm going to Foxfield because there
are better looking babes.’

 

 

Fancy Dress paid for itself this
year.

The Student Activities Board ap-'
peared before the EC Monday night’
for a budget hearing.

The SAB representatives reported.
that FD came in $7000 under budget, .
and they raised an extra $4000.

This extra money, they said, will al-
low the SAB to go beyond just the one
band they now have scheduled for the ,
G.H.Q.

G.H.Q. lacrosse and The Ring-tum
Phi also came up for budget hearings. $

G.H.Q. lacrosse is in financial *
trouble, but their last game is in sight. .

The Ring-tum Phi is in excellent fi-
nancial shape, thanks partly to alumni |
subscriptions.

bere lnn sc p-ied eecatoh whe ee ee
* ate ‘ci oY

 

stat St tino

 

tA Nis 5 7 Pit:

Matt Bevin, junior
probably won't go to either, because B 5
I'll probably be in Annapolis waterski

‘Actually, |

ing. If | were here, I would probably}- .

go to the lacrosse game."’

 

-
=
sf
oe

 
ee ee

’
.
*
‘
;

 

i egg SN fe ae

ph ant iS BY

 

 

NEWS

W&L theatre to present
‘L’Histoire du Soldat’

 

From Staff Reports

 

Igor Stravinsky's L ‘Histoire du Sol-
dat will be presented May 6, 7, and 8
by the University Theatre. A combin-
ation dance/theatre, the play will fea-
ture guest choreographer Kathy Kroll
and a small student orchestra conduc-
ted by Robert Stewart, professor of
music.

Performances on Friday and Satur-
day (May 6 and 7) will be at 8 p.m.,
and Sunday’s performance will be a 3
p.m. matinee. Tickets are $3 for
adults, $2.50 for children, and $2 for
senior citizens. Members of the W&L

community are admitted free. For re-
servations, call the theatre office at
(703) 463-8637.

Members of the cast include Albert
C. Gordon, chairman of the W&L
fine arts department, as narrator,
Frank King as the Devil; Mike Dixon
as the Soldier, and Nancy Hickam as
the Princess. Members of the chorus
are Courtney Payne, Mary Hipp, Ri-
chard Bayton, Bill O’Brien, and
Bayard Lyons.

Members of the orchestra are W&L
students Barry Kolman, Mathew Mor-
ris, Christopher Locke, Robert Wolf,
Gerrick Slate, and Kathryn Kreut-
ziger.

Women’s singing group

is still deliberating a name

 

By Alice Harrell
Staff Reporter

 

A new singing group has recently
emerged on campus. The group’s 11
female members include ten singers
and a piano accompanist who give
choreographed, _ light-entertainment
performances using a variety of popu-
lar tunes, old and new.

Since around the middle of winter
term, these women have been collect-
ing music and choreographing for per-
formances at various social events.
Their first performance was for a fa-
culty open house at Gaines Hall. They
then went on to perform in the Pre-
Tour Concert in Lee Chapel and again
during the University Chorus’s tour of
England over spring break.

They will also be singing during
several of the school’s social events
during the next few weeks, including
Brit Fest, Alumni weekend and Con-
fetti’s.

Lucy Anderson, one of the group’s

two alternates, said that the group
consisted ‘‘mainly of junior [women]
in the University Chorus and
Women’s Chorus.’’ Anderson said
auditions would be held next year for
old and potentially new members. The
group may increase its membership,
said Anderson.

According to member Christine
Davis, the idea for an all-female en-
semble of this kind had been discussed
by the women since their freshman
year. It was only about a couple of
months ago that music department
members were asked to serve as
judges, auditions were held, and the
idea became a reality.

A name for the group is still being
deliberated by the group’s members:
Liz Smith, Cathleen Tiernan, Court-
ney Harpold, Margaret Pimblett,
Kristen Barnes, Christine Davis (jun-
ior members): Amy Hatcher, Chamie
Schildt (freshman members): Lucy
Anderson, Michele Brockman (junior
alternate members): and Julie She-
phard (piano accompanist).

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

 

 

Kathy Kroll rehearses for L’Histoire du Soldat.

AREA ARE RP nei

Election

 

(Continued from page 3

obligation, should be reviewed.

Just as Pyle has seen several pers-
pectives of Lexington life, Shaw
knows of a number of city councils
throughout the Shenandoah Valley

which have dealt with issues similar to-

those faced in Lexington.

Shaw came here in 1981 as the
Shenandoah Valley reporter for the
Roanoke Times & World News. He
became news director at W&L in
1985.

Shaw said his work in journalism
motivated him to run. He says it hel-
ped him come to the ‘‘realization that

 

 

city councils and school boards are the
bodies most responsive to consti-
tuents.”’

He emphasized that city council
deals with issues that directly involve
the lives of his friends and neighbors,
in addition to his own family and his
work place.

Imeson has been a member of the
city council for 17 years.

In his years here he says he’s seen
the city, as well as W&L, grow
slowly. He also says he’s watched the
streets, lined with the cars of W&L
students. There, he sees yet another

way to raise some revenue for the
city.

Imeson says requiring local car
stickers for student cars may become
an issue for the next city council.

From Staff Reports

 

Paul D. Rockett, a physicist with
KMS Fusion, Inc., will be on campus
Tuesday, May 10, to present a public
lecture and a colloquium on laster fu-
sion.

Rockett’s public lecture, ‘*Laser
Fusion: Power for the 21st Century?”’
will be given at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of
the Commerce School. At 3 p.m.
Tuesday afternoon, ‘“Through the
Looking Glass—An X-Ray View of
Laser Fusion’’ will be the topic of a
physics colloquium, led by Rockett, in
Room 201 of Parmly Hall.

KMS Fusion, Inc., is the premier
private laboratory in the country in-
volved in fusion research. Rockett
joined the company in 1981 as a senior
technical manager of the fusion and
plasmas department. He is responsible

 

se Gain

X-ray view of laser fusion
is moved back one week

se

ai

for developing X-ray diagnostic ig
strumentation and characterizing
X-ray sources used for inferrifgl
laster-driven plasma conditions. Hig
responsibilities also include the prg
duction of a product line of soft X-rayi
detectors and sources for sale to the

commercial and scientific community
Rockett was recertly awarded @

National Science Foundation grant fog

the construction of a soft X-ray trang
mission grating interferometer and {
the author of numerous publications

Rockett holds a B.S. in physic
M.S. in nuclear engineering, an
Ph.D. in nuclear science from the
University of Michigan. His visit
WA&L is sponsored by the physics dé
partment and the American Institute qf
Physics. 4

Editors’ note: This lecture was otf
ginally scheduled for May 3.

 

 

   

 

Rooms for Rent

 

 

   
   
   
   
   
        

Singles, Doubles and Triples available
in large fraternity house adjacent to campus.

Available for the ’88-’89 academic year.

Parking available. Competitive Rents.

For More Information Contact:

Larry Mann, Attorney at Law
463-7119

 
 

 

PULSEBEAT PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS

 
 

Ht

 

  

 

  
  
   
 
   

 

 

 

 
 

-

 

=

 

pn

 

 

Se el

sr

cama

ee

| | By Jennifer Bandrowski

Staff Reporter

 

“An alumni art exhibition will take
‘| place in duPont Hall May 2-June 3.

| The exhibit will feature the works of

(75), Steven K. Roberts (’76), Dray-
ton Smith (’74), and Bill Wysor (’74).
_ The works featured will include
‘print making, painting, sculpture,
, and graphic and interior design,’’ ac-
|cording to Kathleen Olson, Director
of the duPont Gallery.
The exhibit will open with a panel

 

| | From Staff Reports

a
|
!

 

The Fifth Annual W&L Triathlon
will be held Saturday, May 21. Ath-
letes from Lexington and all surround-
'ing communities are encouraged to en-
ter the individual competition, which
will begin at 9 a.m. in the Warner
Center on the W&L campus. Registra-
tion will begin at 7:30 a.m.

The triathlon will feature 4 mile
3wim in Twombly Pool, a 13-mile
sike ride, and a 3.1 mile run.

A non-refundable registration fee of
$10 for students and $15 for non-
students is due on or before May 11.
Registration forms may be picked up
n the Warner Center. Although there
s no limit on the number of individual
‘ontestants, pre-registration is en-

ZBT

}Continued from page 1

 

|

ouse was meeting all house needs,
, yas not ‘‘snowballing any debts’’ and
yas not in any financial difficulties.

‘*As long as we can pay our bills
nd keep the house in a liveable condi-
on why shouldn’t we be able to stay
pen?’’ he asked.

The brothers also question the tim-
ig of the national office's announce-
vent. With less than a week until
fay, many of the brothers are faced

featured artists will participate. It will
cover ‘‘how it was graduating from
W&L and going on in art,’’ Olson
said.

Kopold, Roberts, Smith, and Wysor
received their Bachelor of Arts de-
grees in Art from W&L. Kopold is a

ing in Troutdale. Smith received a
Masters degree in education from the
University of South Carolina.

Fixler and McGehee, both Psychol-
ogy majors while at W&L, went on to
receive their Master of Fine Arts de-
grees in 1981. Favermann received a

couraged. Late registrants will be ad-
mitted if space is available on the
morning of the competition.

All triathlon participants will
receive a Triathlon T-shirt and a certi-
ficate. Division awards will be presen-
ted to top finishers in each age group
for men and women.

In addition to the individual compe-
tition, 18 teams from W&L will qual-
ify to compete in a team competition,
which will follow the individual com-
petition. Awards for team competition
will be given to the W&L team with
the best time and to the fraternity with
the highest total points, based on indi-
vidual and team results.

The W&L Triathlon will be held,
rain or shine. For more information,
call the W&L athletic department
(703/463-8694) or Tim Phelan
(703/463-5429).

with finding housing for next year. In
addition, the chapter paid off a past
debt of $2000 earlier in the year under
the premise that they could take a loan
out again in the spring to cover the
costs of the chapter food program. As
of Wednesday, they had been denied
the loan and, unless funds can be col-
lected, the chapter food services will
be suspended tomorrow.

Norris said the house has sustained
the tight brotherhood it has always
had. He said once the house closes
they will stick together.

**Just because the letters ZBT aren't
hanging over the door, we will still
consider ourselves a brotherhood,’ he
said,

 

 

Tom Imeson

 

Not just for Spanish majors only,
students, and advanced. Put some excit

 

 

juovvvoaconvscievenscuvnsenasevevcevorcannecvaccenvnvvseecueeeeaeucusoueuaaveeuocinaecicuenscveecannl

SEMESTER IN SPAIN

(BEGINNER OR ADVANCED)

but for everyone: beginners, “in between”
ement into your college career!

Brian Shaw

AUVCUOETENEEEONEUNEREEOCELUEEOAAOASEAANEREUOEEOUEREEUUEETESEEOUTEET EECA

Merle Norman Cosmetics
M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

 

BEGINNER OR ADVANCED-Cost is about
the same as a semester in a U.S. college:
$3,870. Price includes jet round trip to
Seville from New York, room, board, and
tuition complete. Government grants and
loans may be applied towards our

programs.

 

college you attend

 

your name

 

your present street address

 

city

If you would like information on future programs give
permanent address below.

state

zip

 

your permanent street address

 

city

state

zip

 

a

 

 

M 7 3 '
i discussion at 3:00 p.m. on Friday, sel jesus Gees m. ee Yo Price Cosmetic Sale _—
»| May 6 in duPont Gallery. All of the School of Design in 1978. Tanning Beds I need your head
, ce : S visits $29.00 : s
| Fifth annual W&L triathion Manicures —e oe mae Dey for my business!
i 41 sa en 9-6
|, features a team competition It Visit Fre Open

 

120 11TH STREET S.W. CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA. 804-295-7326

Wendell's
Barber Shop

 

 

Live with a Spanish family, attend classes
four hours a day, four days a week, four
months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent
to 4 semesters taught in U.S. colleges over
a two year time span). Your Spanish studies
will be enhanced by opportunities not avail-
able in a U.S. classroom. Standardized
tests show our students’ language skills
superior to students completing two year
programs in U.S. Advanced courses also.

Hurry. It takes a lot of time to make all ar-

rangements.

SPRING SEMESTER—
FALL SEMESTER—Aug. 29-Dec. 19

FULLY ACCREDITED —A Program of Trinity

Christian College.

For full information— send coupon to:

SEMESTER IN SPAIN

2065 Laraway Lake Drive S.E..CN
Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506
(A Program of Trinity Christian College)

Jan. 30-May 29

each year.

210008-2/87

 

 

i] |
)) | seven W&L alumni—Mark Faver- Chinese brush painter residing in Lex- WITH I 7
f _| mann (69), Claude Fixler (’76), Mi- _ ington. Roberts is a practicing artist in AGES 16 AND UP ADMITTED - A 1
Ny | chael Kopold (’73), Turner McGehee Washington, D.C. and Wysor is paint- ]

 
RN era SSS PRO ESTE

Labro

(iContinued from page 1

printed ourselves in the basement of
Reid Hall, had been entirely entrusted
to us, and I had assumed a position
there with the sonorous title of assis-
tant editor...

 

¥ could call by name everyone I pas-
sed and greeted along the Colonnade.
The number of students was small
enough that, after six months, I knew
all, of their faces. I was one of
them.(Translated by John Lambeth
fot Washington and Lee University
for the Alumni Magazine, Jan./Feb.
1987.)

“*He was very eager to experience
everything American that he could,”
said John Jennings, head of the de-

of journalism, who attended
WA&&L at the same time as Labro.

**Most of his fellow students real-
ized that he had extraordinary talent as

» g@-filmmaker, as a writer, and as a

journalist.”
While at W&L, Labro was greatly
by O. W. ‘Tom’ Riegel,

». then head of the journalism depart-

ment, said Jennings.
While Labro came to W&L with the

» idea of becoming a journalist, ‘‘Riegel

him to develop his talents
in film and other areas,’’ said Jen-

4

L'Etudiant etranger won the presti-

. gious Le Prix Interallie and several

4d

‘Brit g

" "Continued from page 1

?

other French awards for fiction. La-

* bro has written six books, three of

which. are novels. The other two
novels are about the 1970s and La-
brp’s experiences in the Algerian
War.

In terms of his journalism career,
Labro has been compared to Walter

«= <fonkite or Dan Rather. He created

Radio Tel , France’s
largest radio network that has an aver-
age daily audience of 9.5 million
listeners.

‘He anchored the midday news

© broadcast for A2, France’s largest
‘ television channel, from 1981 to

Labro has also written and directed
seven full-length feature films, begin-
a in 1969 with Tout peut arriver.

His most recent film, Rive droit, Rive
gauche, was finished in 1984.
Two of his films, Without Apparent
Motive and The Inheritor, weve distri-
buted in America.

Labro was a reporter for France
Soir, France’s largest evening paper,
from 1959 to 1973, covering events
such as the Algerian War and the
Kennedy assassinations, He has writ-
on er for Match magazine
1

He has received the Chevalier of the
Order Merit in France and the Paris
Riiz Hemingway Literary Award. He
is a founding member of the American
Film Festival in Deauville and is one
the of the 10 most popular personali-

ties in France.

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988, Page 5

 

Survey

(Continued from page 1°

that same survey found 62 percent
said coeducation would be in the
school’s best interest ‘‘with regard to
attracting academically qualified stu-
In 1986, support of coeducation was
measured at nearly 58 percent overall
and 54 percent among W&L men,
compared to 58 percent overall and 47
percent among the men in 1988. But
less than 69 percent of those surveyed
in 1986 said coeducation is in the best
interest of the school, compared to
82.5 percent in 1988.
The study also tric’ :

 

measure the

 

 

 

THE FOREIGN
—STUDENT—

 

 

The cover of Philippe Labro’s book.

Jump

 

(Continued from page 3

vity or athletic event; and it’s a good

alternate to use when the weather

doesn’t permit outdoor activities.”
Furthermore, Lord states that jump-

ing rope aconwiger

even a spastic can enjoy it.’” a
The captains of the

 

ma—John Hamilton, Lambda Chi Al-
pha—Steven Davis, Phi Delta
Theta—Rob Thompson, Phi Gamma
Delta—Larkin Fowler, Phi Kappa
Psi—Paul Burke, Phi Kappa Sig-
ma—Ted Cover, Pi Kappa Al-
pha—Chris Roberts, Pi Kappa
Phi—Chris Kennedy, Sigma
Chi—Bob Tompkins, Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon—Mike Wade, and Women Ath-
letes—Benny Savage. Delta Tau Del-
ta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu,

1982. He has also hosted and pro- teams are: Beta Theta Pi—Jeff Zeta Beta Tau, Football, Wrestling,

duced a television

-

-

 

with Hollandaise sauce, broiled pota-
tos, steamed parsnips, red cabbage
with apples and raisins, Scotch
salmon, tomato and watercress salad,
edie slaw, apple crumble and ice
cream, sherry trifle, Earl Grey tea and
mints. The dining hall will also be
« decorated in a British theme.

‘Throughout the week, a display of

_ Hall Gatehouse.
Additionally, WLUR-FM will fea-
tute music by British artists, com-

ae ree

"Fasiidithatelasbueal
sqven other students have been tenta-
tively noe the event since the

Schwartz, Chi Psi—Tim Clark,

middle of Fall Term. The informal
committee ao la in

wTie ceioa: tin Ot a Sek Fo
began when Dean of Freshmen and
Residential Life, Ken Ruscio, sug-
gested Peppiatt put together some sort
of program about Britain.

“‘I think he wanted to encourage the
international students to get involved,
to use the fact that we’re coming in
with a different outlook and to extend
cultural awareness,”’ said Peppiatt.

“| know there are a lot of W&L
people interested in travel, and this is’
a fine way to let them know a little bit
more about what’s going on,”’ said

Peppiatt says that she expects many
students who have traveled to England —
to be interested in activities. “I hope

Because many of the week’s activi-
ties are based in the Gaines Hall Gate-

 

 

 

emer

Summer & Career Opportunities
(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world
travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean,
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext.

 

 

‘ 23S. Main
1 Lexington, Va. 24450
Lexington Herdwere
463-2242 ip

 

495J.

 

   
  

~

ee
SSE IE SS SES OMI SESS IOI HH >

College Students Wanted

to serve on the 1988 Summer Staff at Blue Ridge As-
sembly, a Christian Conference Center located near
s, Black Mountain, North Carolina. Over one-hundred
students needed for a wide variety of work duties.
Write: Summer Employment Director, Blue Ridge
Assembly, 84 Blue Ridge Circle, Black Mountain, NC

      

aa =

 
 

   
 

  

 
   
     
 

ee ek

 

You won't notice any difference,
but your country will.

The five minutes you spend registering with Selective Service
at the post office won't change you. But it will make a difference
to your country. So when you turn 18, register with Selective
Service. /t's quick. It's easy. And it’s tbe law.

| A public service message of this publication and Selective Service System

I! Ten
:
:
:
i
Z
z
a

oa NR Se et ate NPR ee SEE = EEE RI PBs oe ra ae =

ROTC, and Faculty have yet to an-

a“ show during the late 1950s and 1960s. | Alpha—Shane Grundy, Kappa Sig- nounce their team captains.

house and lounges, she also. thinks.

many of those who attend will be

ee
students, factiity, and the general
Naacanc Eide load,

If Brit Fest is successful, perhaps
other international . students can do
similar programs in the future, such as
Finnish week or Hong Kong week,

“‘Some students have asked me if
this is an attempt at a colonial
takeover,”’ said Peppiatt joki
“*They could be right.”’ as

een

emphasizes that ©

importance of marriage and careers by
asking students, ‘‘After you graduate
from college, if you have to select
marriage OR a career, which one
would you choose?”’

More than 61 percent of the respon-
dents said they would put their careers
first, while less than a quarter—23.6
percent—said marriage would come
first. Although there were only two
possible answers, nearly 15 percent of
those surveyed wrote in some other
response, many trying to combine
marriage and career, according to
Novack.

Among the men who participated in
the study, nearly two-thirds said their
careers were more important, and
49.1 percent of the women agreed.
But 37 percent of the women said they
would choose marriage over a career,

while only 18 percent of the men
would do the same.

Nearly 85 percent of the men sur-
veyed said they intend to have chil-
dren, as did 72 percent of the women.
Only 3.4 percent of the men and 7
percent of the women said they do not
want children. The rest of the respon-
dents—12 percent of the men and 21
percent of the women—said maybe.

More than 78 percent of those sur-
veyed said mothers should stay home
from work for a few months to care
for newborn children, according to the
report. About 69 percent of the men
surveyed said they feel strongly that
the mother should stay home, com-
pared to 52 percent of the women.
Only about 21 percent of the respon-
dents said the mother should be free to
decide.

 

Adopt-a-frosh

Any freshman, sophomore, or
junior interested in adopting an in-
coming freshman for next year can
pick up an application from Bonnie
Walker in the Dean of Students of-
fice. Both Big Brothers and Sisters
are needed to answer freshman
questions about their new school.

Orientation

Members of the Freshman
Orientation Committee are remind-
ed that there will be a meeting on
Tuesday, May 10 at 6:30 in Room
109 of the University Center. Be-
fore this meeting please contact the
Steering Committee with update
and progress report. Group picture
will be taken.

‘Crew meeting

There will be a general meeting
of the Crew Club Thursday, April
28 in Fairfax Lounge at 7 p.m.
Everyone is urged to attend.

Alumni events

The following Alumni events are
scheduled for Friday, May 6:

Gray Castle °53; "55L, Execu-
tive Vice President MONY Finan-
cial Services, will discuss ‘*‘Finan-
cial Services and New York Busi-
ness’’ at 9:00 a.m. in Room 108 of
University Center.

 

| General Notes |

David Hagigh ’83 of the U.S.
Army Intelligence and Threat
Analysis Center talks about careers
in Foreign Service at 10:00 a.m. in
the Career Resources Room, Uni-
versity Center.

All classes are invited to attend
both discussions but sign up in the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office is requested.

Charles M. Strain °73, Attor-
ney/Partner of Farrell, Fritz, and
Caemmerer, et.al. and Denise
Strain, Vice President and Associ-
ate General Tax Counsel, Citi-
bank, N.A. will present a pro-
gram, ‘‘A Dual Career Family
Talks With Students.’’ This pre-
sentation will take place, also on
Friday May 6, at 2:00 p.m. in
Room 114 of University Center.

Registration

Fall Registration, Monday, May
2-Friday, May 6 from 8:30- 4:30,
Adviser meetings: Rising seniors;
Monday, May 2. Rising juniors;
Tuesday, May 3. Rising
mores; Wednesday, May 4. Please
make appointment with your ad-
viser.

Volunteers

4%

a dedieniiie 30-40 volunteers
are needed for the Sth Annual
W&L Triathlon on Saturday, May
21. Assistants are needed for tim-
ing, manning the bike and running
courses, and working in the tran-
sition areas. Each volunteer will
receive a W&L Triathlon T- shirt.
For more information, call Tim
Phelan at 463-5429 or 463- 2608.

When asked if they would move to a
distant city if the move would greatly
advance their spouses’ careers and
only somewhat hurt their own, more
than 9 out of 10 women said they
would, but only 7 out of 10 men said
they would do the same. Nearly half
the women—46.6 percent—said they
would be very likely to move, com-
pared to only 22 percent of the men,
the report said.

The survey also measured student
support for Trident, formerly known
as the Women’s Forum, and found
that nearly half the students sur-
veyed—49 percent—had an unfavora-
ble opinion of that organization.
About 41 percent of the respondents
said their opinion of Trident was
favorable, and 10 percent said they
didn’t know.

Applications due

EC subcommittee applications
are due this Friday, April 29.
Please see EC door on Saturday for
interview schedules. Interviews
will start at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday,
May | and will also be held on
Tuesday, May 3.

Organizations

If you are a new campus organi-
zation and would like to be in-
cluded in the Student Handbook or
an established organization and
would like to revise the description
of your organization in the Hand-
book, then contact Bernadette
Kempton, Amy Aussiker, or
Brooke Jarabek by calling them or
by turning in your copy before
May 6 to the Student Handbook
mailbox located in the Dean of
Students office.

Crown jewel

The Thomas Crown Affair (US,
1968, dir. Norman Jewison, star.
Steven McQueen/Faye Dun-
away/Paul Burke, music- Michel
Legrand, 102 min.) runs at 7:30
‘p.m., " Wed!-Thur.,” 5/425, ' 327
Commerce, sponsor: Politics
Dept. Vintage 1968 anti- Estab-
lishment caper that blends innova-
tive cinematic technique with a
diabolical plot to highlight the cru-
cial role of deception in political
strategy. Bound to do for in-
vestment banking what L.A. Law
has done for law school enroll-
ments.

 

 

Varner & Pole
Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

 

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

porge’s Hairstyl

since 1963

directly behind Leggett’s

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

 

LEXINGTON SHOP
FOR
PAPPAGALLO

Remember Mother’s Day
Sunday, May 8
Free Gift Wrapping and Shipping for all gifts

 

—~Se

 

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-5988

 

 
  

~
¢
n
&y

21 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

MPRA AEA RE EK AK A

¢ UnG
ov Vy,

Ask for Europe for Graduation!
See us for discounted airfares, and eurail and britrail passes.
Come by today!

HEA AA BA I A EK a Ke i a CK IK OK OK OK

re errr etree

=

*
¥
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
¥
¥
¥
i
703-463-7174 &
a

 

sel.

‘| posit.
prompt return.

in your life!

Sincerely,

 

ATTENTION SENIORS

Graduation, it seems, is only a few minutes away and we’d like to let
you know about a few items connected with that event.

First, your cap and gown. Fortunately for you, the University pays for
the rental of your academic regalia (last year the amount was $5441.65).
In order to pick up your cap and gown, come to the Bookstore sometime
between May 25 and Graduation Day...bring $35. in CASH for a deposit
which will be refunded if you return the cap and gown to us by 4PM on
GRADUATION DAY. The $35 is refundable ONLY on June 2, but you
are still responsible for returning the cap and gown. The truth is: we don’t
actually want the money, we really want the outfit back. You keep the tas-

Second, your announcements. These will be for sale at the Bookstore in
packs of 5, starting April 20. Should you want to enclose your card with an
announcement, we have the best deal in town. For only $3.00 you may or-
der a pack of 25 name cards with a choice of 3 type styles! See Debbie in
the Bookstore before April 30 for ths special offer.

HERE ARE THE DATES TO REMEMBER:
April 20—Invitations will be available.
Name cards may be ordered.
April 30—Last day to order name cards at the Bookstore.
May 25-June 2—Pick up cap and gown and pay $35.00 de-

June 2—By 4PM last moment to get $35.00 back for

So, please ya'll, read and heed--you’ve worked so hard get to this point

(Mrs.) Helena W. Roller, Mgr.
and the Bookstore Staff

 

 
TENTIONAL SECOND EXPOSURE

6 ree eB OF

 

a eee

 

A
a
::
3

 

 

 

NEWS

W&L theatre to present
‘L’Histoire du Soldat’

 

From Staff Reports

 

Igor Stravinsky's L’Histoire du Sol-
dat will be presented May 6, 7, and 8
by the University Theatre. A combin-
ation dance/theatre, the play will fea-
ture guest choreographer Kathy Kroll
and a small student orchestra conduc-
ted by Robert Stewart, professor of
music.

Performances on Friday and Satur-
day (May 6 and 7) will be at 8 p.m.,
and Sunday’s performance will be a 3
p.m. matinee. Tickets are $3 for
adults, $2.50 for children, and $2 for
senior citizens. Members of the W&L

community are admitted free. For re-
servations, call the theatre office at
(703) 463-8637.

Members of the cast include Albert
C. Gordon, chairman of the W&L
fine arts department, as narrator,
Frank King as the Devil; Mike Dixon
as the Soldier, and Nancy Hickam as
the Princess. Members of the chorus
are Courtney Payne, Mary Hipp, Ri-
chard Bayton, Bill O’Brien, and
Bayard Lyons.

Members of the orchestra are W&L
students Barry Kolman, Mathew Mor-
ris, Christopher Locke, Robert Wolf,
Gerrick Slate, and Kathryn Kreut-
ziger.

Women’s singing group

is still deliberating a name

 

By Alice Harrell
Staff Reporter

 

A new singing group has recently
emerged on campus. The group's 11
female members include ten singers
and a piano accompanist who give
choreographed, _ light-entertainment
performances using a variety of popu-
lar tunes, old and new.

Since around the middle of winter
term, these women have been collect-
ing music and choreographing for per-
formances at various social events.
Their first performance was for a fa-
culty open house at Gaines Hall. They
then went on to perform in the Pre-
Tour Concert in Lee Chapel and again
during the University Chorus’s tour of
England over spring break.

They will also be singing during
several of the school’s social events
during the next few weeks, including
Brit Fest, Alumni weekend and Con-
fetti'’s.

Lucy Anderson, one of the group’s

two alternates, said that the group
consisted ‘‘mainly of junior [women]
in the University Chorus and
Women’s Chorus.’’ Anderson said
auditions would be held next year for
old and potentially new members. The
group may increase its membership,
said Anderson.

According to member Christine
Davis, the idea for an all-female en-
semble of this kind had been discussed
by the women since their freshman
year. It was only about a couple of
months ago that music department
members were asked to serve as
judges, auditions were held, and the
idea became a reality.

A name for the group is still being
deliberated by the group’s members:
Liz Smith, Cathleen Tiernan, Court-
ney Harpold, Margaret Pimblett,
Kristen Barnes, Christine’ Davis (jun-
ior members): Amy Hatcher, Chamie
Schildt (freshman members): Lucy
Anderson, Michele Brockman (junior
alternate members): and Julie She-
phard (piano accompanist).

duPont art exhibition will

includes seven W&L alumni

 

By Jennifer Bandrowski
Staff Reporter

 

An alumni art exhibition will take

| place in duPont Hall May 2-June 3.

The exhibit will feature the works of
seven W&L alumni—Mark Faver-
mann (’69), Claude Fixler (’76), Mi-
chael Kopold (’73), Turner McGehee
(75), Steven K. Roberts (°76), Dray-
ton Smith (74), and Bill Wysor (°74).

The works featured will include
“‘print making, painting, sculpture,
and graphic and interior design,’’ ac-
cording to Kathleen Olson, Director
of the duPont Gallery.

The exhibit will open with a panel
discussion at 3:00 p.m. on Friday,
May 6 in duPont Gallery. All of the

featured artists will participate. It will
cover ‘‘how it was graduating from
W&L and going on in art,’’ Olson
said.

Kopold, Roberts, Smith, and Wysor
received their Bachelor of Arts de-
grees in Art from W&L. Kopold is a
Chinese brush painter residing in Lex-
ington. Roberts is a practicing artist in
Washington, D.C. and Wysor is paint-
ing in Troutdale. Smith received a
Masters degree in education from the
University of South Carolina.

Fixler and McGehee, both Psychol-
ogy majors while at W&L, went on to
receive their Master of Fine Arts de-
grees in 1981. Favermann received a
Masters degree in Urban Design and
Planning from the Harvard Graduate
School of Design in 1978.

Fifth annual W&L triathlon
features a team competition

 

*, From Staff Reports

 

The Fifth Annual W&L Triathlon
will be held Saturday, May 21. Ath-
letes from Lexington and all surround-
ing communities are encouraged to en-
ter the individual competition, which
will begin at 9 a.m. in the Warner
Center on the W&L campus. Registra-
tion will begin at 7:30 a.m.

The triathlon will feature %4 mile
swim in Twombly Pool, a 13-mile
vike ride, and a 3.1 mile run.

A non-refundable registration fee of
510 for students and $15 for non-
jtudents is due on or before May 11.
Registration forms may be picked up
n the Warner Center. Although there
s no limit on the number of individual
‘ontestants, pre-registration is en-

ZBT

j}Continued from page |

 

ouse was meeting all house needs,
/as not ‘snowballing any debts’’ and
/as not in any financial difficulties.

‘*As long as we can pay our bills
nd keep the house in a liveable condi-
on why shouldn’t we be able 'o stay
pen?’’ he asked.

The brothers also question the tim-
ig of the national office’s announce-
vent. With less than a week until
fay, many of the brothers are faced

couraged, Late registrants will be ad-
mitted if space is available on the
morning of the competition.

All triathlon participants will
receive a Triathlon T-shirt and a certi-
ficate. Division awards will be presen-
ted to top finishers in each age group
for men and women.

In addition to the individual compe-
tition, 18 teams from W&L will qual-
ify to compete in a team competition,
which will follow the individual com-
petition. Awards for team competition
will be given to the W&L team with
the best time and to the fraternity with
the highest total points, based on indi-
vidual and team results.

The W&L Triathlon will be held,
rain or shine. For more information,
call the W&L athletic department
(703/463-8694) or Tim Phelan
(703/463-5429).

with finding housing for next year. In
addition, the chapter paid off a past
debt of $2000 earlier in the year under
the premise that they could take a loan
out again in the spring to cover the
costs of the chapter food program. As
of Wednesday, they had been denied
the loan and, unless funds can be col-
lected, the chapter food services will
be suspended tomorrow.

Norris said the house has sustained
the tight brotherhood it has always
had. He said once the house closes
they will stick together.

*‘Just because the letters ZBT aren't
hanging over the door, we will still
consider ourselves a brotherhood,’* he
said

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

 

WAL Photo

Kathy Kroll rehearses for L Histoire du Soldat.

Election

 

| Continued from page 3

obligation, should be reviewed.

Just as Pyle has seen several pers-
pectives of Lexington life, Shaw
knows of a number of city councils
throughout the Shenandoah Valley

which have dealt with issues similar to-

those faced in Lexington.

Shaw came here in 1981 as the
Shenandoah Valley reporter for the
Roanoke Times & World News. He
became news director at W&L in
1985.

Shaw said his work in journalism
motivated him to run. He says it hel-
ped him come to the ‘‘realization that

 

 

 

Tom Imeson

Rt. 11 North I P

5 visits
10 visits
20 visits

Manicures

 

city councils and school boards are the
bodies most responsive to consti-
tuents.””

He emphasized that city council
deals with issues that directly involve
the lives of his friends and neighbors,
in addition to his own family and his
work place.

Imeson has been a member of the
city council for 17 years.

In his years here he says he's seen
the city, as well as W&L, grow
slowly. He also says he’s watched the
streets, lined with the cars of W&L
students. There, he sees yet another
way to raise some revenue for the
city.

Imeson says requiring local car
stickers for student cars may become
an issue for the next city council.

 

 

CUCU eee

Merle Norman Cosmetics
M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

rice Cosmetic Sale
Tanning Beds
$29.00

$49.00
$89.00

Ist Visit Free
PEPUEUEULUUECDET EEE Eee eee

Brian Shaw

463-1782

Ultra Pointe with Overlay

 

 

 

X-ray view of laser fusion *
is moved back one week |

tana

From Staff Reports

 

Paul D. Rockett, a physicist with
KMS Fusion, Inc., will be on campus
Tuesday, May 10, to present a public
lecture and a colloquium on laster fu-
sion.

Rockett’s public lecture, ‘‘Laser
Fusion: Power for the 21st Century?”
will be given at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of
the Commerce School. At 3 p.m.
Tuesday afternoon, ‘‘Through the
Looking Glass—An X-Ray View of
Laser Fusion’’ will be the topic of a
physics colloquium, led by Rockett, in
Room 201 of Parmly Hall.

KMS Fusion, Inc., is the premier
private laboratory in the country in-
volved in fusion research. Rockett
joined the company in 1981 as a senior
technical manager of the fusion and
plasmas department. He is responsible

for developing X-ray diagnostic iq
strumentation and characterizi

X-ray sources used for  inferrip
laster-driven plasma conditions. Hig
responsibilities also include the pro
duction of a product line of soft X-ray
detectors and sources for sale to the
commercial and scientific community4

 

Rockett was recertly awarded 4
National Science Foundation grant for
the construction of a soft X-ray trang
mission grating interferometer and {j
the author of numerous publications,

Rockett holds a B.S. in physic§
M.S. in nuclear engineering, an
Ph.D. in nuclear science from the!
University of Michigan. His visit 10)
WA&L is sponsored by the physics de
partment and the American Institute of
Physics.

Editors’ note: This lecture was o}
ginally scheduled for May 3.

 

 

Rooms for Rent

 

 

Singles, Doubles and Triples available
in large fraternity house adjacent to campus.

Available for the ’88-’89 academic year.

Parking available. Competitive Rents.

For More Information Contact:

Larry Mann, Attorney at Law
463-7119

 

 

AGES 16 AND UP ADMITTED WITH 1D. F R AX

120 11TH STREET S.W. CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA. 804-295-7326

 

 

 

Wendell's
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

 

 

~ SEMESTER IN SPAIN

(BEGINNER OR ADVANCED)

Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, “in between”
students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!!

BEGINNER OR ADVANCED-Cost is about
the same as a semester in a U.S. college:
$3,870. Price includes jet round trip to
Seville from New York, room, board, and
tuition complete. Government grants and
loans may be applied towards our

programs.

 

college you attend

 

your name

 

your present street address

 

city

state

zip

If you would like information on future programs give

permanent address below

 

your permanent street address

city

state

zip

Live with a Spanish family, attend classes
four hours a day, four days a week, four
months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent
to 4 semesters taught in U.S. colleges over
a two year time span). Your Spanish studies
will be enhanced by opportunities not avail-
able in a U.S. classroom. Standardized
tests show our students’ language skills
superior to students completing two year
programs in U.S. Advanced courses also.

Hurry. It takes a lot of time to make all ar-

rangements.

SPRING SEMESTER—

Jan. 30-May 29

FALL SEMESTER—Aug. 29-Dec. 19

FULLY ACCREDITED —

Christian College.

each year.
A Program of Trinity

For full information—send coupon to:

SEMESTER IN SPAIN

2065 Laraway Lake Drive S.E.,CN
Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506
(A Program of Trinity Christian College)

210008-2/87

ae en TD

 

 

 

 
LS SS SSS

Labro

(\Continued from page |

 

printed ourselves in the basement of
Reid Hall, had been entirely entrusted
to us, and I had assumed a position
there with the sonorous title of assis-
tant editor...

¥ could call by name everyone I pas-
sed and greeted along the Colonnade.
The number of students was small
enough that, after six months, I knew
all. of their faces. 1 was one of
them.(Translated by John Lambeth
for Washington and Lee University
for the Alumni Magazine, Jan./Feb.
1987.)

“*He was very eager to experience
everything American that he could,”’
said John Jennings, head of the de-
partment of journalism, who attended
WA&L at the same time as Labro.

‘*Most of his fellow students real-
ized that he had extraordinary talent as
a filmmaker, as a writer, and as a
journalist.”

While at W&L, Labro was greatly
influenced by O. W. ‘‘Tom”’ Riegel,
then head of the journalism depart-
ment, said Jennings.

While Labro came to W&L with the
idea of becoming a journalist, “Riegel
* encouraged him to develop his talents
in ,film and other areas,’’ said Jen-
nings.

L'Etudiant etranger won the presti-
gious Le Prix Interallie and several
other French awards for fiction. La-
bro has written six books, three of
which are novels. The other two
myvels are about the 1970s and La-
bro’s experiences in the Algerian
War.

In terms of his journalism career,
Labro has been compared to Walter
<fonkite or Dan Rather. He created
Radio Tel Luxembourg, France’s
largest radio network that has an aver-
age daily audience of 9.5 million
listeners.

‘He anchored the midday news
broadcast for A2, France’s largest
television channel, from 1981 to
1982. He has also hosted and pro-
duced a monthly magazine television
show during the late 1950s and 1960s.

Brit .

Continued from page |

with Hollandaise sauce, broiled pota-
tos, steamed parsnips, red cabbage
with apples and raisins, Scotch
salmon, tomato and watercress salad,
cdle slaw, apple crumble and ice
cream, sherry trifle, Earl Grey tea and
mints. The dining hall will also be
decorated in a British theme.

Throughout the week, a display of
posters, maps, and photographs of
Britain will be featured in the Gaines
Hall Gatehouse.

‘Additionally, WLUR-FM will fea-
ture music by British artists, com-
pasers and conductors throughout the
week.

‘Peppiatt said that she and a group of

seven other students have been tenta-

me

 

Labro has also written and directed
seven full-length feature films, begin-
ning in 1969 with Tout peut arriver.
His most recent film, Rive droit, Rive
gauche, was finished in 1984.
Two of his films, Without Apparent
Motive and The Inheritor, were distri-
buted in America.

Labro was a reporter for France
Soir, France's largest evening paper,
from 1959 to 1973, covering events
such as the Algerian War and the
Kennedy assassinations. He has writ-
ten periodically for Match magazine
1976.

He has received the Chevalier of the
Order Merit in France and the Paris
Ritz Hemingway Literary Award. He
is a founding member of the American
Film Festival in Deauville and is one
the of the 10 most popular personali-
ties in France.

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988, Page 5

 

Survey

_)Continued from page 1

 

that same survey found 62 percent
said coeducation would be in the
school’s best interest ‘‘with regard to
attracting academically qualified stu-
dents.”’

In 1986, support of coeducation was
measured at nearly 58 percent overall
and 54 percent among W&L men,
compared to 58 percent overall and 47
percent among the men in 1988. But
less than 69 percent of those surveyed
in 1986 said coeducation is in the best
interest of the school, compared to
82.5 percent in 1988.

The study also trie’: “easure the

 

 

—=ST

 

SITHE #1 BESTSELLER IN FRANCE Bee

THE FOREIGN
DE\T—

   

 

The cover of Philippe Labro’s book.

 

Jump

 

(Continued from page 3

vity or athletic event; and it’s a good
alternate to use when the weather
doesn’t permit outdoor activities.’’

Furthermore, Lord states that jump-
ing rope ‘‘requires coordination, but
even a spastic can enjoy it.”’

The captains of the participating
teams are: Beta Theta Pi—Jeff
Schwartz, Chi Psi—Tim Clark, Kappa
Alpha—Shane Grundy, Kappa Sig-

middle of Fall Term. The informal
committee has been working in
earnest since the beginning of last
month. ail

The original idea of the Brit Fest
began when Dean of Freshmen and
Residential Life, Ken Ruscio, sug-
gested Peppiatt put together some sort
of program about Britain.

“I think he wanted to encourage the
international students to get involved,
to use the fact that we’re coming in
with a different outlook and to extend
cultural awareness,’’ said Peppiatt.

“I know there are a lot of W&L
people interested in travel, and this is
a fine way to let them know a little bit

more about what's going on,”’ said
Peppiatt.
Peppiatt says that she expects many

students who have traveled to England
to be interested in activities. ‘I hope
various students will be trying out
their British accents,”’ she said.
Because many of the week’s activi-

 

tively planning the event since the _ ties are based in the Gaines Hall Gate-
4 2 ae =
‘SERVIGTAR ROW AIRING MIE
DIPUR. NOW HIRING M/F

Summer & Career Opportunities
(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world
travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean,
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext.

 

 

 

College Students Wanted

to serve on the 1988 Summer Staff at Blue Ridge As-
sembly, a Christian Conference Center located near
Black Mountain, North Carolina. Over one-hundred

students needed for a wide variety of work duties.
Write: Summer Employment Director, Blue Ridge
Assembly, 84 Blue Ridge Circle, Black Mountain, NC

 

 

You won't notice any difference,
but your country will.

The five minutes you spend registering with Selective Service
at the post office won't change you. But it will make a difference
to your Country. So when you turn 18, register with Selective
Service. It's quick. It's easy. And it’s the law.

| A public service message of this publication and Selective Service System
OOGUOERRERAREUAUGERUUUGREUUREAEAER EG OGUNLUOORAADEUOVOEEEEEEGUUUEADOESOUUUUEROOEREEEROREUUOEUCREDEUEUAEA EEE EEEUETEO EOD EOEOUNE EOE O EEE

 

ma—John Hamilton, Lambda Chi Al-
pha—Steven Davis, Phi Delta
Theta—Rob Thompson, Phi Gamma
Delta—Larkin Fowler, Phi Kappa
Psi—Paul Burke, Phi Kappa Sig-
ma—Ted Cover, Pi Kappa Al-
pha—Chris Roberts, Pi Kappa
Phi—Chris Kennedy, Sigma
Chi—Bob Tompkins, Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon—Mike Wade, and Women Ath-
letes—Benny Savage. Delta Tau Del-
ta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu,
Zeta Beta Tau, Football, Wrestling,
ROTC, and Faculty have yet to an-
nounce their team captains.

house and lounges, she also thinks
many of those who attend will be
Gaines residents, but emphasizes that
all students, faculty, and the general
public are invited to attend.

If Brit Fest is successful, perhaps
other international students can do
similar programs in the future, such as
Finnish week or Hong Kong week,
said Peppiatt.

‘‘Some students have asked me if
this is an attempt at a colonial
takeover,’’ said Peppiatt jokingly.
‘They could be right.’’

importance of marriage and careers by
asking students, ‘‘After you graduate
from college, if you have to select
marriage OR a career, which one
would you choose?”’

More than 61 percent of the respon-
dents said they would put their careers
first, while less than a quarter—23.6
percent—said marriage would come
first. Although there were only two
possible answers, nearly 15 percent of
those surveyed wrote in some other
response, many trying to combine
marriage and career, according to
Novack.

Among the men who participated in
the study, nearly two-thirds said their
careers were more important, and
49.1 percent of the women agreed.
But 37 percent of the women said they
would choose marriage over a career,

while only 18 percent of the men
would do the same.

Nearly 85 percent of the men sur-
veyed said they intend to have chil-
dren, as did 72 percent of the women.
Only 3.4 percent of the men and 7
percent of the women said they do not
want children. The rest of the respon-
dents—12 percent of the men and 21
percent of the women—said maybe.

More than 78 percent of those sur-
veyed said mothers should stay home
from work for a few months to care
for newborn children, according to the
report. About 69 percent of the men
surveyed said they feel strongly that
the mother should stay home, com-
pared to 52 percent of the women.
Only about 21 percent of the respon-
dents said the mother should be free to
decide.

 

Adopt-a-frosh

Any freshman, sophomore, or
junior interested in adopting an in-
coming freshman for next year can
pick up an application from Bonnie
Walker in the Dean of Students of-
fice. Both Big Brothers and Sisters
are needed to answer freshman
questions about their new school.

Orientation

Members of the Freshman
Orientation Committee are remind-
ed that there will be a meeting on
Tuesday, May 10 at 6:30 in Room
109 of the University Center. Be-
fore this meeting please contact the
Steering Committee with update
and progress report. Group picture
will be taken.

‘Crew meeting

There will be a general meeting
of the Crew Club Thursday, April
28 in Fairfax Lounge at 7 p.m.
Everyone is urged to attend.

Alumni events

The following Alumni events are
scheduled for Friday, May 6:

Gray Castle °53; "SSL, Execu-
tive Vice President MONY Finan-
cial Services, will discuss ‘‘Finan-
cial Services and New York Busi-
ness’’ at 9:00 a.m. in Room 108 of
University Center.

 

General Notes

David Hagigh °83 of the U.S.
Army Intelligence and Threat
Analysis Center talks about careers
in Foreign Service at 10:00 a.m. in
the Career Resources Room, Uni-
versity Center.

All classes are invited to attend
both discussions but sign up in the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office is requested.

Charles M. Strain °73, Attor-
ney/Partner of Farrell, Fritz, and
Caemmerer, et.al. and Denise
Strain, Vice President and Associ-
ate General Tax Counsel, Citi-
bank, N.A. will present a pro-
gram, ‘‘A Dual Career Family
Talks With Students.’’ This pre-
sentation will take place, also on
Friday May 6, at 2:00 p.m. in
Room 114 of University Center.

Registration

Fall Registration, Monday, May
2-Friday, May 6 from 8:30- 4:30.
Adviser meetings: Rising seniors;
Monday, May 2. Rising juniors;
Tuesday, May 3. Rising sopho-
mores; Wednesday, May 4. Please
make appointment with your ad-
viser.

Volunteers

Approximately 30-40 volunteers
are needed for the Sth Annual
W&L Triathlon on Saturday, May
21. Assistants are needed for tim-
ing, manning the bike and running
courses, and working in the tran-
sition areas. Each volunteer will
receive a W&L Triathlon T- shirt.
For more information, call Tim
Phelan at 463-5429 or 463- 2608.

When asked if they would move to a
distant city if the move would greatly
advance their spouses’ careers and
only somewhat hurt their own, more
than 9 out of 10 women said they
would, but only 7 out of 10 men said
they would do the same. Nearly half
the women—46.6 percent—said they
would be very likely to move, com-
pared to only 22 percent of the men,
the report said.

The survey also measured student
support for Trident, formerly known
as the Women’s Forum, and found
that nearly half the students sur-
veyed—49 percent—had an unfavora-
ble opinion of that organization.
About 41 percent of the respondents
said their opinion of Trident was
favorable, and 10 percent said they
didn’t know.

Applications due

EC subcommittee applications
are due this Friday, April 29.
Please see EC door on Saturday for
interview schedules. Interviews
will start at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday,
May | and will also be held on
Tuesday, May 3.

Organizations

If you are a new campus organi-
zation and would like to be in-
cluded in the Student Handbook or
an established organization and
would like to revise the description
of your organization in the Hand-
book, then contact Bernadette
Kempton, Amy Aussiker, or
Brooke Jarabek by calling them or
by turning in your copy before
May 6 to the Student Handbook
mailbox located in the Dean of
Students office.

Crown jewel

The Thomas Crown Affair (US,
1968, dir. Norman Jewison, star.
Steven McQueen/Faye Dun-
away/Paul Burke, music- Michel
Legrand, 102 min.) runs at 7:30
p.m., Wed.-Thur., 5/4-5, 327
Commerce, sponsor: Politics
Dept. Vintage 1968 anti- Estab-
lishment caper that blends innova-
tive cinematic technique with a
diabolical plot to highlight the cru-
cial role of deception in political
Strategy. Bound to do for in-
vestment banking what L.A. Law
has done for law school enroll-
ments.

 

 

 

Varner & Pole
Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

          
   

20rge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

directly behind Leggett’s
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

LEXINGTON SHOP
FOR
PAPPAGALLO

Remember Mother’s Day
Sunday, May 8
Free Gift Wrapping and Shipping for all gifts

 

 

 

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-5988

 

21 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

AREA K EE KKK RAK HK

 

Ask for Europe for Graduation!

See us for discounted airfares, and eurail and britrail passes.
Come by today!

FRA A RE HH HA A He Re eK A AK OK OK OK

nnn
*

703-463-7174

Sikes oie He KE

 

sel.

‘| posit.
prompt return.
in your life!

Sincerely,

 

ATTENTION SENIORS

Graduation, it seems, is only a few minutes away and we'd like to let
you know about a few items connected with that event.

First, your cap and gown. Fortunately for you, the University pays for
the rental of your academic regalia (last year the amount was $5441.65).
In order to pick up your cap and gown, come to the Bookstore sometime
between May 25 and Graduation Day...bring $35. in CASH for a deposit
which will be refunded if you return the cap and gown to us by 4PM on
GRADUATION DAY. The $35 is refundable ONLY on June 2, but you
are still responsible for returning the cap and gown. The truth is: we don’t
actually want the money, we really want the outfit back. You keep the tas-

Second, your announcements. These will be for sale at the Bookstore in
packs of 5, starting April 20. Should you want to enclose your card with an
announcement, we have the best deal in town. For only $3.00 you may or-
der a pack of 25 name cards with a choice of 3 type styles! See Debbie in
the Bookstore before April 30 for ths special offer.

HERE ARE THE DATES TO REMEMBER:
April 20—Invitations will be available.
Name cards may be ordered.
April 30—Last day to order name cards at the Bookstore.
May 25-June 2—Pick up cap and gown and pay $35.00 de-

June 2—By 4PM last moment to get $35.00 back for

So, please ya'll, read and heed--you've worked so hard get to this point

(Mrs.) Helena W. Roller, Mgr.
and the Bookstore Staff

 

 
SPORTS
Three W&L teams capture ODAC titles |

Seniors lead the way
as golfers card crown

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

Some great performances by a trio
of seniors helped the W&L golf team
put together two rounds of excellent
scoring and win the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship
Monday and Tuesday at the Kinderton
Country Club in Clarksville, Va.

Led by seniors James Sower-
sby—whose two-round total of 155
(76-79) earned him medalist hon-
Gary Campbell (157, 78-79) and
John Gammage (158, 83-75), the
Generals posted a two-day score of
629 on the par-71 course, beating sec-
ond place Lynchburg (637) by eight
strokes. The rest of the team results
were Hampden-Sydney with 646,
Randolph-Macon with 649, Roanoke
with 657 and Bridgewater with 671.

ors

‘‘T was happy for our seniors to go
out with [a conference title],”’ said
head coach Buck Leslie, who was
named ODAC Coach-of-the- Year. All
three seniors were named to the
ODAC all-conference team.

‘It was a team effort. Everybody
had a hand in the scoring,”’ said Les-
lie. “*They went about it with some
confidence. Their attitudes coming
into the championship were very

Women
miss first

by 12 point

 

From Staff Reports

good.”’

The General's fourth score was a
combination of the rounds of senior
Kevin Hunt and junior Pete Coleman
Hunt carded a 78 on the first day, and
Coleman added a 81 on the second
day

W&L was tied with Lynchburg at
315 at the end of the first round, be-
fore closing out the competition with a
314 on Tuesday.

“It was a nice surprise,’* said Leslie
of the W&L win. ‘‘It didn’t look good
at the beginning of the year, but we've
been playing much better than we did
at that point in the season. I told the
guys that I though we could win the
thing.”’

Leslie said one key to the win was
Gammage’s second round. After a
tough 83 on the first day of action,
Gammage bounced back with a spec-
tacular 75, his best round of the year.

With the championship now se-
cured, the Generals will now submit
their team statistics and two indivi-
dual’s statistics to the NCAA Division
III National Championship‘s selection
committee. Leslie said he is not sure
of his team’s chances of being selected
to compete and that he would not be
notified until after May 1.

‘We just have to wait it out and
cross our fingers,’” he said.

 

 

 

The W&L women’s tennis team
came within one half point of winning
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence title Friday and Saturday at Ran-
dolph-Macon.

The Generals scored 50 points, but
were beaten by Mary Baldwin with
50’.

W&L freshman Jean Stroman, who
won the No. | singles flight, was
named ODAC Player-of-the-Year.
She beat Karen Whitt of Mary Bald-
win 6-4 6-1 in the championship.

Other flight winners for the Gen-
erals were freshman Kelly Martone
and sophomore Teresa Southard.
Martone won the No. 2 singles flight
by defeating Lolly Marks of Lynch-
burg 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. Southard was vic-
torious at No. 4 singles when she
handily defeated Tracy Gaedcky 6-1,
6-3.

W&L coach Bill Washburn, whose
team finished with a 11-1 record this
season, was selected ODAC Coach-

 

ae Fe

a a

 

 

 

Bill Washburn
ODAC Coach-of-the-Y ear

of-the- Year.

Looking at the team’s final statis-
tics, Martone had the best single’s re-
cord, posting a 13-2 mark for the
year. Southard had a 12-2 record, fol-
lowed by freshman Shawn Wert
(11-2), junior Benny Savage (12-3)
and Stroman (11-4). In doubles, the
tandem of Martone and Wert had the
best record at 13-2, trailed by the pair
of junior Martha Christian and soph-
omore Laura Eggers (10-4) and Stro-
man and freshman Kathy Leake (7-3).

ole To

a oe ie
me — 5?

7 «*
ee

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

Men’s tennis sweeps
competition in finals

 

By Stuart Sheldon
Staff Reporter

 

In their only action this week, the
W&L men’s tennis team played host
to the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Tennis Championships, played
on Friday and Saturday.

The usual field of eight ODAC
teams was narrowed to seven for the
tournament when Maryville announ-
ced that they would not be attending.
No reason is known for this decision,
but no changes were made in the tour-
nament by ODAC officials.

Led by junior Bobby Matthews,
playing again in the No. | position for
W&L, the Generals swept the week-
end, placing team members in the top
position in each of six singles and
three doubles flights.

Matthews won his three singles
matches handily, taking each in
straight sets. He lost a total of only
seven games on his way to winning
the No. | singles flight. Matthews
defeated Randolph Macon’s No. 1
man, Danny Dever, for the title 6-0,
6-1.

Junior Robert Haley, at No. 2 for
the Generals, also won his flight.
Haley needed three sets to knock off
Lynchburg’s Steve Horowitz in the
second match of the afternoon 6-2,
4-6, 6-1, but returned to straight-set
form to beat Bridgewater College’s
Jeff Moyer for the crown 6-2, 6-3.

W&L senior co-captain David

McLeod had an even better outing
than Matthews, allowing only five
games to his opponents as he rolled to
becoming the King of the No. 3 Hill.

McLeod won the title game from
Roanoke’s John Gardner quickly, 6-0,
6-1.

The speed record would not be held
by McLeod, as John Morris won the
No. 4 mantle against Roanoke’s Jeff
Persell without allowing a single game
to any of his foes.

After a first round bye due to Mary-
ville’s absence, Morris defeated
Lynchburg’s Rob Haughey in straight
sets, 6-0, 6-0. Morris did not allow a
single game to his final opponent,
Persell, winning 6-0, 6-0.

Senior co-captain Chris Wiman
locked up the No. 5 throne, defeating
his opponents in straight sets across
the board.

Wiman did need three tie-breaker
points in the second set of the final
match, against Lynchburg’s Scott
Watson, 6-2, 7-6 (3).

Not wanting to be left out, W&L’s
No. 6 man, freshman Bill Meadows,
also raced to capture his blue ribbon.

Meadows began by whipping
Bridgewater's Bryan O'Bannon 6-0,
6-0, then moved up to face Roanoke’s
Preston Shoemaker, whom Meadows
dispatched 6-1, 6-2.

Meadows also made quick work of
Hampden Sydney’s Russ Parrish, 6-1,
6-2, to win the No. 6 flight.

(See ODAC, page 7

Baseball season over
with loss in playoffs

Hornets hand Generals 9-4 defeat

 

By Gary McCullough
Staff Reporter

 

The W&L baseball team’s season
came to a close yesterday afternoon
after a loss to Lynchburg College in
the first round of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference playoffs. The
Generals dropped two other games
this week as well, leaving the season’s
final mark at 8-9.

W&L played well in their playoff
game against Lynchburg tallying up
four runs off of five hits. First-year
law student Hugh Finkelstein hit a tri-
ple and then was driven home by
senior Carter Steuart. Junior Eddie
Klank had two hits on the day, and a
dropped fly ball off the bat of junior
Harry Halpert scored another run.
Steuart was the starting pitcher fol-
lowed up at relief by junior Chris
Cunningham and junior Mike Temple.
The team played well, but Lynchburg
was just too tough and stayed on top
for the 9-4 victory.

The make-up game at Hampden-
Sydney College last Thursday was not
the highlight of the season for W&L.
While the Generals were able to knock

 

 

The Generals’ lacrosse team has dropped its last seven games.

Sports Photo

in a total of 10 runs, they were
nonetheless outplayed by the Tigers
who brought home 21.

The last regular season game was
Friday at Lynchburg. W&L did
slightly better than it did against
Lynchburg in the playoff game, but it
wasn’t quite enough. The Generals
scored six runs while Lynchburg
scored nine. Cunningham started the
day on the mound and was relieved by
sophomore David Smith.

The season’s 8-9 record was some-
what disappointing for the team, but
Finkelstein commented on the im-
provements which the team has made
in recent years: ‘‘The last time I
played on the team was when I was
junior, and things have improved a lot
since then. I think that’s mostly due to
[head] coach [Jeff]Stickley. He’s a lot
more conducive to work with, and
he’s been really great with the ath-
letes,’

Stickley was also pleased with the
difference in the team’s work this
year. ‘‘We’re pretty happy with the
year overall,’’ he said. ‘‘We played a
lot better baseball than we did the last
year or so. We're pleased with the
direction we’re moving in.””

 

A. White leads track
in conference blowout

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The W&L track Generals won sev-
en events, set four school records and
three conference records, scored the
most points in the history of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference and
basically steamrolled the ODAC Sat-
urday on their way to W&L track’s
fourth- straight conference title.

Senior Andrew White will have to
make room for his fourth—that’s
right, fourth—ODAC Runner-of- the-
Year Award. The W&L hurdler broke
his own school record and set a new
ODAC record with a time of 14.3
seconds in the 110-meter hurdles,
took second in the 400 hurdles, and
ran on W&L’s record-setting 400 and
1600 relay teams.

Junior Scott Williams, who had not
competed collegiately in running
events until this year, won the 400
meters in a school-record 49.3 sec-
onds, ran on both relay teams, placed
second in the 200 to W&L sophomore
Wes Boyd, and took third in the dis-
cus.

‘‘Andy and Scott were outstand-
ing,’’ said head coach Norris Aldri-
dge. ‘‘I am really proud of what they
have accomplished. ”’

Boyd was the only General to win
two individual events, taking the 200
in 22.4 seconds and the 100 in 10.8
seconds.

As usual, W&L racked up in the

distance events. Junior Jamie Urso
broke the two-minute mark to win the
800 in 1:57.6, and senior James Bu
quet and freshman Jeffrey Baucgum
finished 5- 6.

In the 1500, senior Richard Mdore
placed second, freshman David Mar
tin was third, junior David Thompses
finished fourth and senior Scott Rip-
peon was sixth. Thompson also plaged
second in the 5000, and Martin and
Moore finished right behind hint in
third and fourth place ,

In the 400-meter relay, the W&L
team of White, Williams, Boyd and
freshman Erik Adkins set fire to she
Bridgewater College track with a time
of 42.7, a new conference record.
Williams and White teamed with U;so
and senior John White in the 1600 re-
lay to set yet another conference ‘e-
cord (3:22.9). ‘

While the running events provided
141 of W&L’s 183 and “points, the
Generals also picked up points in the
field events. Junior Jim Ambrosini
was third in the shot and fourth in the
discus. Sophomore Phil Sampson took
second in the pole vault, where senjor
Rob Williamson finished fourth, and
seniors Sean Connolly and senior Jofin
Veatch finished 3-4 in the javelin.

a

MILEPOSTS—The team totals Sat-
urday were not even close. W&L’s
183 and % points easily outpaced
number-two Bridgewater, with 126
and 2 points.

 

Sports Photo

Junior Eddie Klank had two hits in yesterday’s playoff loss to
Lynchburg.

Lax loss streak hits seven.

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The 2-9 W&L lacrosse Generals,
struggling under the weight of a sev-
en-game losing streak, will try for
their first win since March 16 when
they play host to VMI and take on the
nation’s leading scorer Saturday in the
first annual Lee-Jackson Classic.

Two top-ten Division III teams kept
the W&L losing skid going for yet an-
other week. Third-ranked Washington
College handed the Generals a 20-9
beating Saturday on Wilson Field, and
W&L didn’t fare much better Wed-
nesday in a 15-7 loss to fifth-ranked
Franklin and Marshall.

Both D-III powers used big scoring
runs to take out W&L. On Saturday,
Washington outscored the Generals
10-1 in the game’s last 23 minutes,
and F&M scored 12 unanswered goals
Wednesday, including an 8-0 second
quarter, to keep the Generals 0-for-
April.

‘*We've played well in spurts, but
we haven’t played the complete sixty-
minute game,”’ said head coach Den-
nis Daly. ‘‘Somewhere along the line,
we've got to click for the sixty
minutes.””

Against Washington, Daly said he
was most concerned about midfielders
Chris Dollar and Mike McGuane.
While W&L did restrict the Shoremen
middies somewhat, WC _ attackman
Paul Miller more than made up the
difference with four goals and nine as-
sists.

OA er ERS eee Ss

‘They just moved the ball very
well, and he was in the right position
at the right time,’’ Daly said of Mil-
ler. ‘‘I was really impressed. They’re
an outstanding team.”’

As they had in every game this
season, the Generals fell behind early.
In fact, WC was up 5-0 with just sec-
onds left in the first period when jun-
ior attacker John Ware scored unas-
sisted to end the shutout.

In the second quarter, two-straight
Shoremen goals were followed by a
W&L three-goal run, and the slow-
down game the Generals were playing
looked like it might pay off.

Freshman attackman Brain Over-
beck scored his second career goal to
make the score 7-2 with 2:55 left in
the first half, and sophomore midfiel-
der Chris Mastrogiovanni scored just
seconds later to cut the margin to four.

Then, after a slashing penalty
against Washington, W&L_ senior
midfielder Sandy Harrison scored an
extra-man goal on a pass from Over-
beck with only a minute left to pull the
Generals to within three at halftime.

The W&L swing continued in the
second half, with Ware again scoring
unassisted with less than 90 seconds
gone in the third quarter, cutting the
Washington lead to two.

The Shoremen responded with a 4-0
run, including one goal and two assists
by Miller, but W&L cut the score
from 10-5 to 10-8 on two goals by
senior attackman Peter Smith and one
by Ware, his third of the day.

Then all hell broke loose with a
10-1 Washington College scoring

blitz, keyed by great transition passing
and WC domination in second-half
faceoffs.

A lonely unassisted goal by juniof
middie Stuart Geisel was the only hint
of protest the Generals could muster,
as the offense became as silent as the
defense was helpless.

‘*There’s a point in the game when,
you start to say, ‘The game’s close, ~
but we’ ve got to do something to try to
make it closer,’’’ said Daly. ‘‘But, by
trying to do those things, we had to
leave our game plan, which allowed it
to be close in the first place.’’

Despite giving up 19 goals to the
Shoremen, freshman Tom Costello*
once again did good work in goal for,
the Generals, making 21 saves and
forcing WC to do most of its scoring?
one-on-one, usually on transition or,
when quicker attackmen evaded an

;

outmanned W&L defense. ‘
‘I don’t fault Tommy at all,’’ Daly,
said of the Washington College

pounding late in the game. *‘He made’
the saves that allowed us to be in posi
tion to win that game. We've got to do
the other part of it."’

And, against fifth-ranked Franklin
& Marshall, the Generals appeared
capable of doing that ‘‘other part of
it,”’ at least early on. For the first time
this season, W&L started the scoring,
as senior middie Robbie Stanton
scored an extra-man goal just 52 sec
onds into the game to put the Generals
up 1-0.

But it didn’t last. The Diplomats

See Lax, page 7
‘

«

e

»

’

”

 

ODAC

Continued from page 6

 

In doubles action, the Generals con-
inued their winning ways, sweeping
ul three flights.

After a first-round bye, the No. |
W&L pair of Matthews and McLeod
continued its consistent play by blank-
ing Hampden Sydney’s pair, Arnz and
Simanis, 6-0, 6-0.

Lynchburg’s couple of Haughey
and Lawson faired little better, falling
to the No. 1 Generals’ pair 6-2, 6-0, in
the flight’s title match.

W&L’s No. 2 pair of Wiman and
Morris also enjoyed the added rest of
a first-round bye, then unloaded on
Emory and Henry’s Bolton and Lakey
6-1, 6-1.

Wiman and Morris defeated Ran-
dolph Macon’s Barry and Persell 6-1,
6-4 for the claim to No. 2 doubles
fame.

In action in the No. 3 doubles flight,
W&L’s duo of Meadows and Haley
also won big. Roanoke’s Shoemaker
and Nick Burlew fell first, 6-2, 6-1.
Next was Hampden Sydney’s Cobb
and Parrish, who held on until the
third set only to lose 6-1, 5-7, 6-0.

Haley and Meadows squared off
against a better-rested Lynchburg
team of Horowitz and Watson, who
had been given a first-round bye and a
6-1, 6-2 victory over their second-
round adversaries from Emory and
Henry. The W&L pair won the No. 3
doubles title in straight sets, 7-5, 6-1.

When all the matches were over, the
Generals were officially declared the
ODAC Champions. The Generals
scored 72 points to beat out Lynch-
burg, who finished second with 54.

Washington and Lee also did well at
the post-tournament awards cere-
mony. Head coach Gary Franke was
named ODAC Coach-of- the-Year,
and Matthews was named the confer-
ence’s Player-of-the- Year.

Franke thought that the team ‘‘just

ede
a

Saturday.

played outstanding tennis. They
played even better later on [during the
tournament].’’ He is optimistic as the
season draws to a close for his team. If
the Generals are invited to attend the
NCAA Division Tl Tennis Cham-
pionships, to be held here in Lexing-
ton May 16-22, they are sure to put on

 

: Sports Photo
Senior Chris Wiman won the No. 5 singles flight in the ODACs on

a fine show.

In a team tournament on Monday,
sophomore Matt Ormiston, con-
sidered to be the No. 7 player on the
team, won what is referred to as the
**Nut Squad Championships,** rally-
ing to beat out freshman teammate
Ried Manley in three sets.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988, Page 7

 

Youre smart eno

to calculate

the size of a Hydrogen atom.

nee nerey

V6) oy hat Gite
“Fa mee*

oc oe

a

Sr
mee?

76 dia sree ey oh is os nd.

And you're still smoking?

U,S. Department of Health & Human Services

oR

Catch the feeling!!!

 

LEER ERLE AREA TRA TA IARD

Ring-tum Phi Sports

KKKKK KKK

Seriererresssseresesnseennnnnnnnd

 

Lax

 

( \Continued from page 6

tied the score two minutes later and
went up by one with six minutes left in
the quarter. Stanton tied the game
with 4:48 left on his-seeend-score of

“yewtheday;- a long” clearing~ shot -that~-

 
 

found an empty goal, but F&M went
ona 12-0 run and never looked back.

In the second half, Harrison scored

three times, Smith found the net once

and Stanton scored again to complete
his hat trick

In Saturday’s Lee-Jackson Classic,
the Generals will face what is no doubt
VMI’s best lacrosse-team ever in that
elub’s season-finale:

ol La penne

The 10-3 Keydets have lost to Div-
ision-| power Virginia and to Ran-
dolph-Macon—the only ‘‘blemish on
their record,”’ according to Daly—and
are coming off an 11-10 overtime loss
to Guilford. Their ten wins have all
come against legitimate lacrosse pro-
grams, said Daly, including Hamp-
den-Sydney and Lynchburg.

The VMI oftense features the top

Fun Than

  

 

Pay rate:
$5/hour weekends
$4/hour weekdays

BONUS PLAN

 

 

 

 

FUN

 

 

 

 

Weekly
Schedules
of 35-45 hrs.
in the summer

 

 

 

Interview Hours: Mon.

ekend

Job

ummer

portunities

Dominion

75 miles south of Washington, D.C. and 20 miles north of Richmond, Va., on I-95.

(i

 

A
Great
Working
Environment

 

 

 

 

FRIENDS

 

 

 

 

EMPLOYEE
ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

- Sat. 9 AM - 5 PM

For more information or an employment brochure
call or write: Kings Dominion Personnel Dept.,
Box 166, Doswell, VA. 23047 804-876-5145

EOE

 

scorer in D-I, senior Dave Hope, who
has 50 goals—that’s right, 50— and 19
assists in VMI’s 13 games.

“‘He may be as good a power
shooter as we’ve faced this year,”’
said Daly.

VMI is not weak at the other end,
either. Senior Tom Towers, the
Keydets’ starting goalie, has a season
save percentage over .600.

Any doubt as to whether VMI can
play with W&L in lacrosse was re-
moved last season. The Keydets gave
the Generals all W&L could handle in
a game that played much closer than
the 15-9 final score.

‘‘Their goalie’s good, they have
good team speed, they believe in
themselves, and they’ ve accomplished
a lot of firsts,”” said Daly.

 

 

See Doug Turrell
W&L’87

 

at Courtesy Ford/Mercuryy

Buena Vista
for all your new car needs.

 

 

 

ONCE YOU HAVE
ONE OF THESE

 

IT’S AMAZING WHAT
DOORS WILL OPEN.

 

GET $400 FROM FORD AND
PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT.

If you've graduated, or will gradu-
ate, with a Bachelor's or advanced
degree between October 1, 1987 and
January 31, 1989, take advantage of
the open door policy at ( Courtesy

Motors). You may qualify for $400

from Ford and pre-approved credit
from Ford Motor Credit Company. To
qualify for pre-approved credit, you
need: (1) verifiable employment
beginning within 120 days after your
vehicle purchase; (2) a salary suffici-
ent to cover normal living expenses
plus a car payment; and (3) if you

 

2619 Forest Ave
Bueme Vista

pl SUELE

“$s

  
 
     
 

0) £0 | Motor,
Oi. (| | Shame
et ie

have a credit record, it must indicate
payment made as agreed.

The $400 from Ford is yours
whether you finance or not. Keep it or
apply it to the purchase or lease of an
eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle.

For all the details, contact us or call
Program Headquarters, toil free, at
1-800-321-1536. But hurry. This
limited time offer is only available
between March 1 and December 31,
1988. Take advantage of the
Ford/Mercury College Graduate
Purchase Program now

 

261-2112
Du. 1916

 
Lu
L
an

BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1988

 

The worstalbums in history

 

By Greg Ossi
Music Critic

 

You can always spot those articles
that have been written because the
writer has nothing really substantial to
write about. I am referring to the self-
serving articles that come under sus-
picious titles like ‘“‘The 100 Best
Songs of 1987"’ or ‘‘The Ten Best
Albums of 1987’’ or my favorite,
**The Ten Best Albums of All-Time.”

I call these articles self-serving be-
cause that’s about all who cares about
what has been written. Musical tastes
are dependent on personal opinion and
everyone has his own. Just because
one has a title like music critic
shouldn't justify the publication of
such a waste of time. Each person ac-
tually thinks that his opinion is the
correct one.

However, this argument does not
quite work the other way around. Part

Instrumentalists

of a music critic’s job is to point out
various flaws in a record. Sometimes
the whole record is a mistake. As in
English where there is no agreement
over who has written the best work
most agree that when something is
bad, it’s real bad.

I've taken three paragraphs of your
time to tell you that I basically have
nothing to write about and am now go-
ing to enlighten you as to the ‘‘Ten
Worst Albums of All-Time.’’ Once
again, I remind you, this is the ten
worst albums to me.

I will start off with the best of the
worst. Making its appearance at num-
ber ten is Bad. The title says it all.
Michael pulled a fast one on his fans.
He made a couple of terrible tracks,
greased ‘em up, slapped ‘em on some
vinyl and called it Bad. He wanted to
see if his loyal worshippers of the one
true white sequinned glove would buy
anything he put out, even if it was
Bad.

They bought it.

Paving the way at number nine is
Trout Mask Replica by Captain Beef-
hart and his other bovine organs.

blow through
the Bahamas

 

By Jason Lisi
Staff Reporter

 

When I think about the GREAT
times I’ve had in college—those times
that will stand apart from my overall
memories of my time at Washington
and Lee— I remember a few specific
instances: tearing at my fraternity,
eluding the Hollins security guards
early one morning, drinking at Pan-
ther Falls, taking a Physical Education
*class’ by skiing at the Homestead,
etc.

During this spring break I added
another to this list: taking a cruise to
the Bahamas with the W & L Wind
and Percussion Ensembles.

The 18-member group, led by Mu-
sic Professor Robert Stewart, usually
takes a trip or two every year to play
the music prepared during class.
Through massive amounts of planning
by Stewart and the band’s student
leaders, the group took a 4-day cruise,
playing on the ship and at the College
of the Bahamas in Nassau. We all had
a great time.

But how could we not have had a
great time in the Bahamas? Oh sure,
the W & L Chorus went to England,
saw boring stuff like Westminster Ab-
bey and claimed to have a ‘‘great
time,‘‘ but we sat on a warm, isolated
beach as the crystal-clear turquoise
water lapped at our feet. Which would
you rather do? I think I know the an-
swer.

The cruise began on Monday after a
rather long chartered bus ride to
Miami Beach. Once there, the mem-
bers of the group put the ride behind
them and focused on the activities of
the cruise.

And there were enough activities to

please everyone. The casino and slot
machines were open virtually every
waking hour, and someone in our
group was either getting ridiculously
lucky or was losing like mad. There
was always some kind of entertain-
ment going on, from movies three
times a day to glitzy, overenergetic
Vegas-type ‘‘Variety Spectaculars,”’
where part of the presentation in-
cluded a four-member singing and
dancing group wasting their talent
right before our eyes by trying to get
us to cheer as they called out the
names of the states. Most of us didn’t
oblige.

On the second day of the cruise, the
ship docked at Nassau, where we
played our concert at the College of
the Bahamas, where the group gave a
concert last year. The program con-
sisted of work from the Baroque
period (Palestrina) to today (including
‘‘Devertissment: Omnibus’’ by
Professor Stewart and a percussion
piece by W & L sophomore Robert
Beveridge). The ensembles were well
received by the students who found in
us a good reason to blow off studying
for finals.

Later that evening the members of
the group split up to see the sights of
Nassau, stay on the boat, or go to Par-
adise Island.

* Rough seas the next day prevented
the passengers from going to the
cruise line’s private island, Little Stir-
rup Cay. This day was spent at sea and
the ensembles played another concert
in the afternoon. The audience filled
the showroom to hear our concert and
we received hearty applause, especial-
ly from one particularly vociferous
spectator—‘‘Jerry’’ to those who
know and love him.

Thursday, when the seas died down
and the passengers were able to go to
the island, was perhaps the best day of

Listening to any of the multitude of
tracks on this album will cause the
listener to destroy his stereo. I have
never heard a better attempt at retail-
ing cacophonous noises as soulful mu-
sic.

In this age of progressive music
many record/radio industry magazines
have sprung up. Most of these I can-
not stand because they only serve the
purpose of trying to promote each and
every released album in the world.
This has somehow led to a group
called the Zodiac Mindwarp Love
Reaction or something. The lyrics
sound like they have been written by
an out of work porn screenwriter on
LSD who has just experienced a cys-
toscopy. The music reminds me of the
time I spilled water all over my five
dollar K-Mart speakers.

When you hang a dog by his tail and
hit him with a baseball bat, what
sound does he make? Blarf, or so the
members of that now extinct group
would have you believe. Number sev-
en is the album Blarf by Blarf and if
you can’t understand why, imagine
yourself listening to the sound of an

Emergency Broadcast Test signal and
liking it better.

I have never admired Don John-
son's taste in clothes or in music. His
album deserves number six.

Paving the way for the mellowest
garbage ever made is Air Supply and
their Greatest Hits album. Need I say
more?

Burning up the tracks at number
four is speed—speed metal that is. I
would put a particular album here but
since they all sound the same why
bother?

Who made a comeback in ‘88 and
nobody cared? The Bee Gees that’s
who, and I am still thankful. Disco
died with hair implants, leisure suits
and Saturday Night Fever but some
still live such as those nasal brothers
the Gibbs. Any and all of their produc-
tions account for at least numbers
three and two.

And as for the worst album of all-
time, well I leave that up to your own
judgement. After all, albums are still
being made and who knows when Phi-
lip Glass will try and make a minima-
list album with natural body noises.

 

 

 

 

File Photo

Members of the W&L instrumental ensemble on board the Bahamas

cruise ship S.S. Emerald Seas.

the trip. Boats ferried passengers to
the cruise line’s private 10 square mile
island, complete with a bar every 150
yards. Here members of our group
swam, snorkeled, gorged at the coo-
kout, tanned, and/or explored. Some
will remember a sand-flinging, hakey-
sack marathon and ensuing wilderness
walk. While we sat on the clean, un-
crowded beach, soaking in the rays
and concentrating on nothing but
having a good time, we came to the
realization that the trip had transfor-
med itself from a concert tour to a
great vacation.

Back on the ship that evening the
group watched another of those corny
song-and-dance shows, called the
‘*Farewell Variety Spectacular.’’ This
was good for a few laughs, especially
watching the ‘international recording
star’’ Fernando bomb his way through
bad Top-40 covers and his philosophy
of show business. Julio Iglesias should
not worry.

After this, the members of the
group split up and wandered the ship
and its lounges and bars. Two of the
group wandered to the ‘‘Mayfair‘‘
showroom for five heart-pounding
games of bingo. We reconvened at
midnight for something we had to see
to believe— a disco contest. This is
notable particularly for those passen-
gers who took it seriously: a gold-
chained John Travolta- wanna be and
two dozen high school kids from Lou-
isville, Ky. One member of the last

group was a lad who, in public, did

things with his hands and hips which
cannot be adequately related in a fami-
ly newspaper.

Following the contest, several of the
group collected their instruments and
played improvised blues in an empty
lounge until about 4:30 in the morn-
ing. We knew there was not much
sleep and long bus ride ahead of us.

So we left Miami after having a
great vacation. We had not only had
fun, but we entertained a lot of people.
Although our suntans will fade and
our photographs will be shut away,
the members of the W & L Wind and
Percussion Ensemble will carry this
trip, as I will, in their memories long
after we leave Lexington.

 

MEMBERS OF THE WASHING-
TON AND LEE WIND AND PER-
CUSSION ENSEMBLE: BRASS:
Marc Ackerman, trumpet Andrew
Waters, trumpet T. Christopher
Locke, trumpet J.P. Johnston, trum-
pet Jennifer Elmes, tuba Robert Wolf,
trombone Jason Lisi, baritone horn
WOODWINDS: Amy Aussiker, clar-
inet Bernadette Kempton, clarinet
Sarah Bolte, flute Ingrid Schroeder,
flute Kathleen Morrison, flute Tanya
Pergola, flute Stephanie Smith, flute
Sharon Witting, flute Ron Brown,
saxophone PERCUSSION: Robert
Beveridge Scott Hamilton DIREC-
TOR: Robert Stewart

Blues completes Neil Simon trilogy

 

By Franklin Daniels
Staff Reporter

Biloxi Blues is Neil Simon’s latest
entry in his autobiographical trilogy.

It’s the story of a ragtag group of
fresh northeastern army recruits
wading their way through boot camp
in what is to them the alien world of
Biloxi, Mississippi. The star of this
assembledge is Eugene, played by
Matthew Broderick, a jewish boy who
manages to escape Brighton Beach
and land himself in the most humid
spot possible to enjoy what is probably
his first dose of the real world. Nat-
urally, this sudden over-exposure is
filled with many hazards, and it is
around these trials and their outcomes
that Simon weaves his story.

The crew Simon assembles is a
microcosm of society, with characters
representing every walk of life, from
the intellectual bookworm to the
strong, overbearing bully.

Each one in this bunch assumes cer-
tain stances as they would normally
and, more often than not, eagerly pre-
sents them to the group. Soon con-
flicts arise and instantly the medium
for both Simon’s humor and his social
commentary is apparent, these often
childish disputes not only supplying
numerous one-liners but helping to
draw growing up and its pains and the
big ugly world around him together

 

ein SSR RRR as ete amr eS 8

Simon has always excelled at dra-
matising a real world situation for
both comic and social reasons and he
does this here, though neither his
statements nor his comedy particu-
larly overwhelm.

He manages to include, very appro-
priately, a whole range of questions
from homosexuality to religion and in
resolving each one he lets his feelings
be known, though not decisively. At
times one finds himself enjoying the
irony of a situation, perhaps retro-
spectively, and is surprised by a gentle
nudge given by the actions of the
characters. They are valid dilemmas
indeed, as are Simon’s statements
about them, but they lack a certain
quality to make one take a long hard
look.

While the goal of the film is not to

make a social statement, if one is go-
ing to make such an effort to present
such Views, One should make them
stick. More than his other recent films
of this type, here Simon takes a stab at
genuine real world commentary that,
while in a comic voice, seems weak.
Nice food for thought between laughs,
but that’s it. Still, he manages, with
the classic happy ending, to leave the
viewer with the feeling that something
good just happened and that everyone
involved, including the viewer, bene-
fitted from it.

This is the bottom line for a film of
this type and Simon seems content to
accomplish this, leaving perhaps a
hint of something more with the dis-
cerning interpreter.

All in all, a nice film, though not
outstanding, unless your choice of

 

 
 
   
  
   

 

EE|Jé
EE||=
EE||E
£
{

ad
ve oP Foy

FE:

ellee|

 

 

 

 

 

 

EeL/EELE

 

   

 

OR

1 Mill St
Stauntcn, Va
885-3409

 

 

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian And

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close

Cajun Dishes

Reservations suggested

 

 

9. age) ORR recom

company is excellent. Its technical
presentation was first rate and, while
uproarious laughter was not often
heard, knowing smiles were copious.
Few will feel any great impact from
this movie, but that was not its goal.
Most will find themselves looking.
back, or in some cases perhaps for-
ward, with the feeling that they, along
with the now no longer innocent
Eugene, came out alright in the end,
with some good memories to show for
it. So goes this film, a very pleasant
experience.

PAID SUMMER
INTERNSHIP

residential treatment
emotionally-disturbed
youth seeks live-in counselors for
boys, ages 6-18. Training and clini-

+ cal supervision included, no pre-
vious experience required. Em-
ployment: June 27-Aug. 26.

Short-term
center for

For into contact
Wediko Children’s Services
(617) 536-2747 Boston, MA

 

 

Calendar

Friday, April 29

12 Noon—JUMP ROPE FOR HEART: Parking lot in front of Doremus
Gymnasium. Money-raiser for American Heart Association. For infor-

mation, call Carol Calkins at 463-8590.
‘Sums of Squares,’’ Gregory D.

1 p.m.—MATH COLLOQUIUM:

Russell, W&L °88. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Public invited.

2 p.m.—PSYCHOLOGY COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Motivational Systems:
Their Study and Applications,’’ Paul R. McHugh, M.D., Johns Hop-
kins University. Room 318, Tucker Hall.

Saturday, April 30
7:30 a.m.—BIRDWALK: Led by Peter Bergstrom, W&L biology de-
partment. Meet at north end of Woods Creek parking lot (near W&L
law scheel) and bring binoculars. Public invited.
10 a.m.—Registration for W&L swimming lessons. Twombly Pool,
Warner Center. Classes for all ages will run two sessions, May 2-6 and
May 9-13. $15 per session. For information, call Page Remillard, W&L

aquatics director, 463-8694.

3 p.m.—LACROSSE: LEE-JACKSON LACROSSE CLASSIC: Gen-

erals vs. VMI Wilson Field.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASEBALL: ODAC finals; MEN’S
TENNIS: Emory; TRACK: James Madison Invitational.

Sunday, May 1

Law School reading days end.

8 p.m.—BRIT FEST: ‘‘U.S.-Britain Relations,’’ Counsellor R.F. Cor-
nish, British Embassy. Northen Auditoruim, University Library. Re-
ception to follow in Gaines Hall Gatehouse. Public invited.

Monday, May 2

Law School examinations begin.

Undergraduate Registration for Fall Term begins.

4:30 p.m.—FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium.

7 p.m.—JAPANESE FILM FESTIVAL: Chushingura, directed by Hir-
oshi Inagaki. Room 327, Commerce School.

Tuesay, May 3
8 p.m.—BRIT FEST: *‘Faculty-Student Entertainment,’’ featuring mu-
sic, comedy, readings, and skits with a British theme. Gaines Hall Gate-

house. Public invited.

Wednesday, May 4
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: The Manchurian Candidate.

Room 327, Commerce School.

8 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘The Japanese Novel—An Oxymoron?’’ Edward

B. Fowler, Duke University.

Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

Thursday, May 5
Washington and Lee Alumni Reunions begin.
3:30 p.m.—MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Poisson-type Problems on Vec-
tor computers,”’ David L. Harrar Il, W&L °85. Room 6, Robinson
Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 21. Public invited.
6 & 8 p.m-—BRIT FEST: ‘‘Go UK”’: Visit the United Kingdom
through slides, brochures, and a travelogue, featuring the University
Chorus’s recent trip to London. Followed by British videos at 8 p.m.

Gaines Hall Lounges. Public invited.

7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST The Manchurian Candidate. Room

327, Commerce School.

8:15 p.m.—OPENING REUNION ASSEMBLY: Speaker: Philippe
Labro, W&L °58, author of LEtudiant etranger (The Foreign Student).

Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Friday, May 6
Washington and Lee Alumni Reunions.
Undergraduate Registration for Fall Term ends.
CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Discussions with
W&L Alumni. Advance sign up in CD&P office:
9 a.m.—‘‘Financial Services and New York Business,’’ Room 108,

University Center.

10 a.m.—‘‘Careers in Foreign Service,’’ Career Rescurces Room,

University Center.

2 p.m.—‘‘A Dual Career Family Talks With Students,’’ Room 114,

University Center.

3 p.m.—PANEL DISCUSSION: ‘‘Is There Life for an Artist After a
Liberal Arts Education?’’ featuring W&L alumni artists. duPont Audi-

torium. Reception to follow.

8 p.m.—PLAY: L’Histoire du Soldat by Igor Stravinsky. Music con-
ducted by Rob Stewart with guest choreographer Kathy Kroll, Univer-
sity Theatre. For reservations call theatre office, 463-8637.

8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: A Private Function (England, 1985). Class-

room ‘‘A’’, Lewis Hall.

 

 

 

Fine Cuisine
IVAN ATMOSPHERE SUPREME

“Over 50 years of quality food”
‘STEAKS ¢ SEAFOOD ¢ CHICKEN
GREEK & ITALIAN SPECIALTIES
* CARRY OUTSERVICE

463-3612
OPEIi 6 DAYS 6:00 A.M. TC 9:30 PM.
Closed on Monduy

SOWVTH CRIN
HA

LEXINGTON, VA.

  

MAJOR CREDIT :
caansaccePTEO 37S MAIN

 

 

 

ae Se aS ee ee

 

CD Specialities

Unique Musical Selections for the
unique music listener
Featuring: Imports, Progresseive &
Classic
Special mail order service available.
New CDs from $7.99-$13.99. We buy
and sell used CDs.

Roanoke/Salem Plaza
Roanoke, Va (703) 366-7084

 

For Mother’s Day,
give Mom a work
of art.

Handcrafted pottery
by Emerson Creek
Free Shipping

Viiyiniw

 

 

BORN (& BRED, INC.

 

 

 

 

 

i ee Wl i A ee,

 

—EE————— a

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

Valley True Value Hardware

Truk Value

HARDWARE STORES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelgon Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

 
