ln

+ <2
VOLUME 87, NO. 25

The Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 5, 1988

 

‘Contact speaker

 

Publicity Photo

* Elliott Abrams, assistant secretary of state for Inter- American Affairs, will speak next
. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. One week later, on Thursday, May 12 at 8 p.m.,
also in Lee Chapel, Michael Deaver, former deputy chief of staff to President Reagan,

+ sponsored by Contact.

~ “ will speak on ‘‘The Reagan Presidency: It’s Successes and Failures.’’ Both lectures are

—speaker. Lee Chapel.

room 327.

Arts Education?’’

Alumnus Awards.

the New.’”’

Jubilee. Gaines Hall Gatehouse.

 

 

Alumni Weekend
Highlights

Thursday, May 5
8:15 p.m.—Opening Reunion Assembly. Philippe Labro, °58,

Labro is a distinguished French writer, film-producer and journalist. He
is the author of L’Etudiant etranger (The Foreign Student), the best-
selling French novel based on his W&L experiences.

Friday, May 6

1:30-2:30 p.m.—Lecture: ‘‘So You Want to Be an NFL Replay Offi-
cial?’’ given by Peter Abitante, "78, Director of Information for the
American Football Conference of the NFL. Commerce School, Class-

2-3 p.m.—Campus Tours led by members of Kathekon, W&L’s Student
Alumni Association. Begin at the Alumni House.
3-4:30 p.m.—Reunion Panel Discussion: “‘Is There Life After a Liberal

Saturday, May 7

9-10 a.m.—Alumni vs. Varsity Water Polo. Twombly Pool.

9:30 a.m.—Class Photographs: All reunion classes begin to assemble in
front of Lee Chapel for group photos.

10 a.m.—Annual Meeting of the Law School Association. Lee Chapel.
10:30 a.m.—Alumni Reunion Assembly and Remarks by President
Wilson. Election of New Alumni Directors, Annual Fund/Class Agent
Awards, Presentation of the Reunion Trophy and Bowl, Reunion Gift
Announcements: The Classes of 1938 and 1963, Chapter of the Year
Announcements, Special Alumni Board Presentation and Distinguished

1:30-3:30 p.m.—Tours of the Historic Front Campus: ‘‘The Old and
Gilliam House—Reeves
House—Lee-Jackson House—Lee House—Gaines Hall

2 p.m.—Special Entertainment by W&L’s new women’s singing group,

Center—Morris

9 p.m.-12 a.m.—The Rusty Nichols Dixieland Jazz Band. General
Headquarters in the University Center.

 

 

Attendance policy approved

 

- By Marie Dunne
_ Co-editor

 

The faculty has approved a state-
: ment to be added to the university ca-
_ talog that will allow a professor to re-
quire a student to drop a class if the
* student misses the. first class meeting
_ of the term, according to Scott Ditt-

man, university registrar.

The statement, which was passed by
, a voice vote during the faculty’s meet-

ing Monday, reads as follows: ‘‘Facu-
“Ity members may require a previously
. fegistered student to drop a class if the

student misses the first class meeting
“of the term without prior approval of
, the instructor.”’

According to Dittman, this state-
“ment falls under another statement
.already in the Faculty Handbook,

which says ‘‘the nature of a student’s
‘participation in the work of a course”’
.is a matter between the student and fa-
culty member.

‘The faculty members decide at-
.tendance policy. The university has

said it’s not going to make any regula-
‘tions regarding attendance policy in
_classes,’’ said Dittman. The faculty
have always had the power to decide
“attendance policy, he said.

.. ‘*What [this statement] does is al-
low faculty members to make a very
‘restrictive attendance policy,”’ said
Dittman.

» Faculty members may choose to re-
quire students to drop a class if they
miss the’ first class meeting, or they
may ignore the statement and set their
own class attendance requirements,
said Dittman,

Faculty members may also decide to
allow exeeptions to their own policy,
but that is a matter between the indivi-
dual instructor and the student, said
Dittman. E

There are several rationale for the
additional statement, said Dittman.
Because students wait until late in the
first week before dropping a class they
have no intention of taking, faculty
members have no accurate idea of the
final size of the class. Other students
should not be kept out of a class sim-
ply because another student hasn’t
submitted the proper paperwork until
late in the week, said Dittman.

Dittman stresses that the actual
procedure for drop/add still remains
the same. Students must submit the
proper forms and fees to drop a class.
Faculty members will not give the re-
gistrar a list of students to be removed
from a class, he said.

If a student misses the first class,
and the instructor allows another stu-
dent to take his place in the class, it is
up to the student to convince the
professor that the student had suffi-
cient reason to miss the class, said
Dittman.

If the student cannot convince the

Forum debates Middle

 

<By David Emrich
_Co-Editor

 

+ Last Thursday five experts turned
Lee Chapel into a forum on the cur-
rent Palestinian/Israeli problem in the
‘Middle East. The panel discussion,
organized by two W&L students, was
the second of its kind this year.

' Gordon Byer, Former U.S. Ambas-
-sador to Egypt; Milton Colvin,
Professor of Politics; Frederic Kirgis,
“Dean of the Law School; Gregory
-Stanton, Assistant Professor of Law;
_and Bruce Herrick, Chairman of the
Economics Department were the pan-
-elists for the discussion. Knox McMil-
lan, a third-year law student, moder-
‘ated the event.

Each panelist gave a short five to
eight minute presentation that con-
‘sidered the Palestinian/Israeli question
from a slightly different perspective
than the other speakers.

Byer used his time to briefly outline
the problem’s historical perspective.
He said that the diaspora, or dispersal
of the Jews in 132 A.D., was a major
part of the Jewish heritage. To this
day, said Byer, Jews are still deeply
affected'by the 1856-year-old event.

’ On the other hand, Byer said the
Palestinians were also displaced from
their land in the 1948 Arab-Israeli
War. The land now known as Israel
was occupied by the Palestinians until
the creation of the Jewish homeland in
1947. The creation of Israel and the

ensuing war effectively uprooted the
Palestinians.

The second speaker, Colvin, said he
wanted to approach the problem from
a human interest perspective. He said
the Jews were isolated in the ghettoes
of European cities until early in the
19th century. He said the Jews wanted
their own country because they had
been second class citizens in every
other country in the world.

Kirgis went next and considered the
problem from a legal perspective. The
disputed areas of the West Bank and
Gaza Strip were acquired by Israel in
the Six-Day War. He said Israel holds
the position, rejected by both the U.N.
and the U.S., that they won the land in
a legal war of self-defense and should
be allowed to keep it.

Stanton, the next speaker, stressed
the Jewish fear of genocide as a driv-
ing force behind Israel’s demand for
secure borders. The Jews believe, he
said, unless they are safe in their own
homeland they will be safe no where.
Therefore, the Jews are determined to
protect their land at all costs.

On the other hand, Stanton said the
Moslems and the Palestinians both
have some claim to Israel’s land. Jeru-
salem is the religious center for not
only Jews and Moslems but also for
Christians. Any solution to the prob-
lem, said Stanton, must address the
problem of religious centering.

Herrick wrapped up the panelist’s
comments by characterizing the
Middle East as a ‘‘negative sum

faculty member to allow him to stay in
the class, but does not formally drop
the class through the registrar’s office,
the student will most likely receive a
failing grade, said Dittman.

Dittman said that he realizes there
may be unavoidable conflicts that
causé students to miss a class.

Because the first day of classes dur-
ing the 1988-89 fall term will fall dur-
ing Rosh Hashanah, some students
may miss classes in order to attend
holy day services. The University Ca-
talog states that the university asks
“all faculty to make any accom-
modations necessary for students’ ob-
servation’ of religious holidays, said
Dittman.

“This might be one area where a
student might not be at the first day of
classes,’’ said Dittman.

Dittman suggested that any students
who think that they might be absent
for the first day of classes talk to the
teacher before they miss the class,
rather than waiting until after the fact.

‘This is where the clause about
prior approval comes in. A student
can call if he misses his plane, or has a
problem at home that prevents him
from getting back in time for clas-
ses,”” he said.

The statement will be added to the
catalog in two specific places: under
‘‘Courses’’ and ‘‘Change of Study,”
said Dittman.

East issues

game’’—a situation where both sides
lose.

He said both sides assume the other
to be evil and believe military might is
the only thing their enemies can
understand.

Following the panelists prepared
statements, the audience was ‘invited
to ask questions.

The panei discussion, organized by
junior Bob Tompkins and first year
law student John Falk, was the second
of it’s kind this year.

Earlier the pair organized a panel to
consider the question of aid to the Ni-
caraguan Contras.

Fewer than 50 people attended last
Thursday’s discussion. Tompkins said
he thinks part of the problem was a
lack of publicity. But he added, **Per-
haps it’s just spring term.”’

Overall, though, he said he was en-
couraged and that he and Falk ‘‘plan-
ned to continue with these events in
the future.””

Audience reaction was also very po-
sitive.

John Kondayon of Lexington said
he thought the conference ‘*was excel-
lent and certainly deserved a bigger
audience.”

He said, ‘‘I wish there were more
conferences like this on matters of
international importance. ”’

Bert Fisher of Falls Church said,
‘‘There wasn’t any political biases [on
the panel]. It was just really a wonder-
ful discussion and I feel very enlight-
ened and lucky to have been here.”’

Go ahead and jump

Last Friday W&L students participated in a jump rope marathon
last week to raise money for the American Heart Association. The
students raised more than $1200 during the event. The top three

600 W&L alumni
return to campus

 

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

“Tt will be just like we were young
fellows again,’’ states M. Neely
Young, Sr., °43.

Young and six hundred other
alumni return this weekend to W&L
for class reunions. Beginning today,
the Alumni Association has lectures,
panels, art showings luncheons, and
cocktail parties organized. Alumnus
Dan Balfour, 63, speaks for many
when he said he looks forward to re-
living good memories and parties with
returning friends. A large percentage
of the 10 honored classes return every
five years to the campus.

Beginning on Thursday evening at
8:15 p.m., Philippe Labro, ’58, will
speak in Lee Chapel. Labro is the au-
thor of Foreign Student.

Friday will offer such panel dis-
cussions as ‘‘Dual Career Couples:
The Challenges to Marriage and Fam-
ily Life,’’ ‘‘So You Want To Be An
NFL Replay Official?’’ and ‘‘Is There
Life for an Artist After a Liberal Arts
Education?’’ Each panel features re-
turning alumni.

In addition, members of Kathekon
will give tours of the buildings on
campus, as many have been built and
redone in recent years.

Class pictures, an address from
President John D. Wilson, and an
awards and announcements ceremony
will take place Saturday morning.

Alumni classes will be involved in

 
   

many activities this weekend. On Sat-
urday morning an Alumni Glee Club
Concert will take place. Members of
the class of °58 have challenged the
Varsity Women’s Tennis team to sin-
gles and doubles matches.

The class of ’63 has raised a gift of
approximately $250,000 as a fund for
the school to provide an income to
draw eminent scholars and speakers to
the campus. Not only will the Class of
1938 celebrate their banquet as they
used to in 1930s style in Doremus
Gym, but they also warn of a surprise
they have in store for the campus on
Saturday morning.

Young recalls alumni weekend was
a small affair in years past. He said
when his father was the first secretary
for the Alumni Association in the
1930s, his mother would serve
homemade ham biscuits and potato sa-
lad in the dining hall, the present
bookstore.

Gray Castle, '58, a frequent visitor
to W&L, thinks the people who come
back are what make a reunion, the
program is secondary. Each class
takes the opportunity to have a ban-
quet and reminisce over old times and
discuss years since graduating.

The class of 1963 has organized a
notebook of pictures from their senior
year. It now contains a letter from
each class member describing what
he’s done since graduation.

E. Ross Kyger said, renewing old
friendships, visiting former profes-
sors, and enjoying Virginia at this
time of year is what he looks forward
to this weekend.

 

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

teams in the event were: 1) Sigma Chi, 2) Phi Kappa Psi, and 3)
Sigma Nu. The top three individual times belonged to: 1) Mark-
ham Healey, 2) Paul Burke, and 3) Jack Pringle.

Adopt-A-Freshman needs ‘siblings’

 

By Jennifer Bandrowski
Staff Reporter

 

Last summer, the freshman women
received letters from a ‘big sister’’ at
W&L. Their big sisters contacted
them during the first weeks of school
to answer questions or to help with
problems.

Next fall, both freshman men and
women will have the benefit of an
older sibling through the expanded
**Adopt-A-Freshman’’ program.

The program was originally desig-
ned for females ‘‘because women
didn’t have the same advantages as the
males, for example, through a big
brother in a fraternity,’’ said Mary
Alice McMorrow of the Freshman
Orientation Committee.

**Kara Cunningham and I had the
idea and went through the administra-
tive stuff. I was involved with other
parts of Freshman Orientation, and
Kara basically put it [Adopt-A
Freshman] all together.”’

“*Last year’s program was very
successful. Some even had three big
sisters so it worked out really well.”’

Cunningham is in France this term

so this year Brooke Jarabek, Kevin
Nash and McMorrow are in charge.

MeMorrow explained the decision
to include males. ‘‘Before we thought
with such a large majority of the males
going through rush, that took care of
it. This year we decided that guys
need help too and need that introduc-
tion.”

Students may choose a freshman of
either sex. ‘‘So far, the trend has been
that girls have been wanting little sis-
ters and guys have been wanting little
brothers, or else they show no pref-
erence,’’ Jarabek said.

‘*There’s been a bigger response
from the girls, especially the freshman
girls who know the benefits of a big
sister.”

Participating students must write
“two letters per younger sibling dur-
ing the summer,’’ Jarabek said. There
may be some doubling up unless more
people decide to participate.

A picnic will be held ‘‘before the
football game the first Saturday,”
McMorrow said. ‘‘Hopefully all of
the upperclassmen will have arrived
by then so nobody's left out. Basica-
lly, the year starts that day because it’s
the first past Orientation Day.”’

The picnic ‘‘is something where
you can get together with upperclass-
man friends,’’ Jarabek said. ‘‘It will
help to unite the upperclassmen and
freshmen and promote school spirit
and unity.””

The relationship ends ‘‘at a point
left to individual preferences,”’
McMorrow said.

‘‘Hopefully, through the year the
older sibling will be there with an-
swers to questions,’’ Jarabek said.

‘‘Last year, most of it was done
over the summer,’’ McMorrow said.
‘People really need to sign up
now...it’s not too late to get on the
bandwagon.”’

‘‘We definitely need more students
interested in little brothers,’’ Jarabek
said. ‘Almost all of the Early Admis-
sion students are done, except for a
few more males who still need older
siblings. We honor special requests
based on student interests, sports, and
geographic location.”’

Older siblings will receive letters
with the name and address of their
freshman in June.

**T think it’s a really good program
and it helps out the freshmen a lot,”’
Jarabek said.
 

 

OPINION
Changes

This weekend is W&L’s annual Alumni Weekend, an opportunity
for graduates of the university to return to Lexington, the scene of
their collegiate exploits, and visit with classmates and professors.

Inevitably, alumni compare the institution of today with the one
they knew, and find the current one lacking. This is simply a fact of
reunions. Nothing can ever live up to the glorified impressions of
W&L which alumni carry in their minds. Such is the beauty of
selective memory.

Although the alumni will find many facets of W&L life to be the
same, many changes have occurred since the graduation of the clas-
ses of 1938, 1943, 1948, 1953, 1958, 1963, 1968, 1972, 1978 and
1983.

The most obvious and significant of those changes is the inclusion
of women in the student body. Many of these alumni were probably
opposed to the advent of coeducation, thinking that the admission of
women would forever alter the character of the university they re-
membered. This is in fact what has happened—whether the new
character of W&L is preferable to the old is a matter of much de-
bate, not to be soon completed.

 

But what of the other changes which returning alumni may ob-
serve? These may not necessarily be connected to the presence of
women as students here, although arguments may be made both
proving and disproving the coed connection. Men who were stu-
dents before the demise of the dress code may still see coats and ties
worn by the current generation, but no freshmen wear beanies. That
tradition has been but a fond memory for years. Depending on an
alumnus’s year of graduation, he will notice many new buildings on
campus. The most recent of the reunion classes will find Gaines Re-
sidence Hall the newest of the additions; in fact, all of the alumni
will have the opportunity to tour Gaines. Members of some classes
may be seeing the University Library for the first time; others may
be unfamiliar with the renovations of the Gilliam Admissions
House, the Morris House, and the Reeves Center. Warner Center
will be a change from the Doremus Gymnasium complex frequen-
ted by classes before the 1970's. The five-star Generals of the Class
of 1938 will find Howe, Parmly and duPont halls to be changes
from the campus they knew, and many more of the returnees will
find a renovated Commerce School and larger University Center.

These architectural additions are a few of the physically obvious
changes which the alumni may discover upon their arrival in Lex-
ington. Less apparent are changes in the philosophy and attitudes of
the institution known as Washington and Lee University.

Our proudly-held belief in the Honor System still stands, but be-
gins to show cracks when a student’s word is not accepted by ad-
ministrative offices on campus and area merchants refuse to accept
student checks because of fear that the checks will be returned

Noriega
and his
Panama

MY VIEW
By John Roach

 

 

Since Panama and its military
leader, General Manuel Antonio Nor-
iega, seem to be in the news almost
every day it is probably time to shed
some light on this drug trafficker as
well as U.S. policy towards Panama.

No one is for drug trafficking and
especially no one can support a thug
like Noriega. However, there are big-
ger issues involved in this whole mess
and these have hardly been addressed
by the media.

Noriega is a major drug trafficker
but he is only a minor figure com-
pared to the ring-leader of the drug
trade that flows through Latin Amer-
ica. This kingpin is Fidel Castro and
he has a comrade whose name is Dan-
iel Ortega. They are the major movers
of drugs in the area but hardly anyone
has disclosed this to the American
people.

A Nicaraguan military aide to Um-
berto Ortega, the brother of Daniel as
well as Defense Minister, who defec-
ted last year disclosed to Congress and
the media the huge involvement of the
Ortega brothers and Castro in the drug
trade. Major Roger Miranda’s testi-
mony consisted of stories of Swiss
bank accounts as well as disclosures of
just how deep the communist leaders
of our hemisphere are involved in the
drug trade.

Noriega got involved with these
Marxists and he got caught. The U.S.
is trying to oust this minor player
while we don’t dare accuse the
leaders, Castro and Ortega. Justice is
odd.

I am not trying to minimize Noriega

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1988

**I don’t know if I really want to see W&L men in tights!”’

a

GEA

 
   
   
  

 

 

 

but simply to show that we are ignor-
ing the other culprits in this case. Nor-
iega’s involvement with Castro and
Ortega becomes more alarming if we
consider the importance of the Pan-
ama Canal.

Noriega represents the same group
of leaders that was supposed to leave,
according to supporters of the Panama
Canal Treaty, if we would only ap-
pease the Panamanian people by giv-
ing them back ‘‘their’’ Canal. Presi-
dent Carter offered this line of reason-
ing to The U.S. Senate, when

he convinced the Senators to ratify the
treaty. Carter believed that as soon as
we returned the Canal to Panama the
people will admire the U.S. and will
also throw out the military dictators.
As recent events in Panama have pro-
ven, President Carter was dead
wrong. The Panamanians still hate the
U.S. and for the most part are in no
hurry to have Noriega leave.

The result of Carter’s giveaway has
placed the Canal within the control of
a man who is a drug trader and associ-
ated with both Fidel Castro and Daniel

Ortega. Panama has moved no closer
to democracy and the Canal is not as
secure as it was ten years ago.
The lessons to be learned here are
quite simple. First, General Noriega
should have become a full-fledged
communist and no one would have ac-
cused him of drug trafficking. Seo-
ond, it was a major mistake to give the
Canal away and President Carter,
along with all the other supporters of
the Panama Canal Treaty, have al-
lowed a potential Soviet puppet con-
trol of a vitally important waterway.

 

stamped ‘‘Insufficient funds‘* during the summer months, when the
Cold Check Committee is not available to cover them.

And what has happened to the speaking tradition? It is no longer a
certainty that a student greets those he passes on campus. A practice
that was once enforced by an ‘‘Assimilation Committee’’ is now
unknown to many students and, worse, ignored by others.

One of the most unique characteristics of W&L, that of the stu-
dent-run campus, is well on its way to becoming another tradition
fallen by the wayside. The EC still has full control of the honor
system, but disciplinary and other matters are no longer controlled
by students. If the Student Affairs Committee has review power
over decisions of the Student Conduct Committee, why bother
keeping the charade of student control? We can no longer claim to
be a self-governing university, and should stop making such asser-
tions.

Another aspect of campus life which alumni may find to have
changed, for better or worse, is the fraternity system. One house,
Zeta Beta Tau, will be reorganized next year. Other houses find
‘themselves ruled by a rush calender developed not by the Inter-
fraternity Council, but by administrative committees. And the
fraternity renaissance program was designed not by the student
members of fraternities, but by the administration.

These are a few of the changes which the returning alumni dis-
cover during their visit to Lexington. But enough of W&L’s trade-
marks—the beautiful campus, historical grounding, faculty dedica-
tion to teaching, and the ability to balance intellectual pursuits with
those of a more Bacchanalian nature—remain as testimony to the
longevity of this institution. Welcome Back, graduates! And may
your visit be as enjoyable as your college years were.

eee ne ee ee

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

NEWS STAFF
COTE acca cts sidssansssnscisavisecdescscetssscceesssessticccssetnenundoiccdicisbisapess Marie Dunne
David Emrich
IOWW TORI os cacs css isscccicosreccescccceisisasescsesssocstccsqneonessosensoeinsicsecenes Peter Boatner
GOPENO scssscccusissccccscccscccesaccssssessescsscccstqencossseubencebicessiavesedeass Mike Shady
Manton taleetneeht BGNOr .....sescccscsoccsosscssescccsssccesacosocooecssosorccoseeseoooee Michael Tuggle
PRT IE ois iscsi nes dsicccscesesssescenccssisceiessssscctsscssbesencsnciesss Perry Hayes
OPINION PAGE STAFF
Hitortal Page Eattor ...scccisccosscsssoresssssescccccsasccsocnecseebosescosessees Margaret Pimblett
Cartoonist ...ccccrcsrscsccccccrvceccecccceccccesccccocceseccscccccccssccceseccoossessses Stephen Ingram
BUSINESS STAFF
BE PINE iisiilisiivailvsscrstinrenssicciinasaninnan Jason Faust
PTOI MIIIOE ii iiinsisicdedceccascissssseesacssavcxincadassisaniaidadenesnsssvanies Alan Hinkle
COCUIAEINN MEDIIROE ies ecicisssddosccecessesesscaccscesssncabecscacccanssctenisesssesoes Eddie Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Reader ponders SCC, SAC procedures

To the editors:

This letter is not meant as an incontrovertible
“‘conclusion’’ on this matter; it is meant primarily
to open people’s eyes to what’s going on.

Recently a W&L sophomore (male), upon pro-
vocation (which some consider to be severe) did
the unthinkable: he hit a girl. Of course if you ha-
ven’t heard of the incident, you now will surely
support our movement to send this individual to a
very high-level corrections institute, if not de-
mand that he be tantalized beyond reproach before
an imminent trip to the gallows. My point here is
not humor; this is a serious problem involving
both this case and, as I hope will be shown (if not
by this letter, by other means), with the current
disciplinary system under which we, as students,
are governed.

Last year a freshman was found guilty of shoot-
ing a weapon (the infamous blowgun) into a
crowd of people, unprovoked (by anything other
than that Roanoke fans are too loud or that our
friend is a sore loser), hitting a Dean’s daughter in
the shoulder. He was given one semester’s sus-
pension. :

Also last year, another freshman was beaten in
the face (repeatedly) while being held down by
two other guys. The offender barely escaped the
harsh punishment of two weeks’ social probation.
(I know, it breaks my heart too.)

Meanwhile, our current offender (the male
sophomore), having been ‘‘tooled’’ so to speak
(egged on, teased, whatever...), under extreme
provocation hits a Hollins sophomore in the face
(once). I’m not defending what he did, nor do I
believe in this sort of violence (against male or
female). My point here is to put this incident in
perspective.

Sunday night the Student Conduct Committee
(composed of the presidents and vice presidents of
the four undergraduate classes, plus law school
representatives and a chairman) found him guilty
of a major offense (as expected) and subsequently
expelled him. Given previous cases (at least one)
in which the offender wasn’t provoked, and given
that this student was provoked, this sentence
seems (in fact it glares as being) unreasonably
harsh.

All well and good.

You may not agree with my analysis of this in-
dividual case and its relationship to previous
cases, but I’m sure you'll find these tidbits of in-
formation interesting if not alarming. One week
before the SCC ‘‘hearing,’’ one of the student’s
law school advocates was told by a member of the
SCC that ‘‘they,’’ in so many words, wanted him
to be expelled. ‘‘They’’ can be interpreted either
individually or collectively, but off-the- record in-
formation supports if not confirms this interpreta-
tion, In fact, an SCC member also stated that he
would have taken extreme, violent action had the
girl been his daughter. Do you share these views?
Perhaps you do, but there’s a problem here: you’-
re not a member of the body which ‘‘tried’’ the

case! The student spent a few hours on Sunday
night doing something closer to trying to change a
group of people’s minds that were already made
up than to being heard in a fair-court situation. Is
this right? I hope you don’t think it is.

A second tidbit: this body supposedly ‘‘ig-
nores’’ precedent (previous case decisions) ac-
cording to its guidelines so to treat each case more
‘‘individually.’’ This all sounds nice, but let’s
take a closer look. This ‘‘guideline’’ (or practice)

could also cover up or give room for imbalanced |

decision making. (How about sexist decision mak-
ing?) Our courts of law look to precedent for gui-
dance in their decisions, and yet do we think that
these courts do not view each case individually?
Do we not believe in consistent justice over a
period of time? Why, then do we disallow looking
back at precedent? Some may claim the absence of
‘‘exact-case scenarios,’ but what’s the point? Is
there no such thing as comparative or relative
precedence? Certainly there is.

This afternoon (Tuesday) the SAC (three
professors, two deans and four or five students)
reduced his punishment to one year’s suspension.
At least three members of the SAC indicated de-
finite interest in these SCC ‘‘behaviors,”’ includ-
ing Dean John, Professor Margand, and Brad
Root. Dean John urged me to tell other people
who know these ‘‘details’’ to inform other mem-
bers of the SAC, and Prof. Margand urged simi-
larly on grounds that they would not (or may not)
be informed of these things, i.e.—they wouldn’t
have come up in the hearing! Is there no problem
here?

Some still consider the student’s punishment to
be too harsh; myself, I reserve my opinion on the
matter here because the problem at hand is of a
more universal concern: our student disciplinary
structure. I hope you find, as I do, that there’s
something wrong here. The fact that a body of
students elected largely on a popularity contest
basis has the power (which it’s had for only three
years) to expel a student like this is alarming to
me. Some may argue that the automatic appeal to
the SAC serves as a viable ‘‘check and balance,”’
but let’s take another look. This morning Dean
John told me that especially when there exists a
high degree of uncertainty or doubt in their de-
cision, that the SAC will simply approve whatever
the SCC rules. What we have here is worse than
not having any checks; it’s a token check in the
system. Why doesn’t the SAC hear these cases
first-off? I’m sure there are ‘‘reasons,’’ but what
about these findings about the SCC’s behavior?
As I said before, there’s something wrong here.

Granted, the SAC did reduce the sentence, but
as Prof. Margand indicated, that body itself might
have remained unaware of many crucial circum-
stances had several of us not taken an initiative
and spoken up. Since when should a group of con-
cerned students have to keep an eye on the work-
ings of our disciplinary systems in order to pre-
vent such foul-ups? There’s something wrong
here.

To be honest, I do hope a significant change is .

made in this system, and I encourage you all to

voice your opinions (if you have any), whether '

they be in support of this letter or in opposition to

it. It would be nice to all be on the same side here.

Deeply concerned,

Chris Beeley, '90 ”

Is W&L honor accepted?

To the Editors:

As students of W&L, we are supposed to act |

within the guidelines of our Honor System as out-
lined over a century ago by General Lee. In re-
turn, the students at W&L expect to have their

word trusted on campus and in the surrounding .

areas. However, it seems that certain members of
the faculty no longer regard a student’s word as
the absolute truth. ;

For example: While attempting to register for
fall classes, I was told that I could not register un-
til I paid my bookstore charge account bill. I then
informed the secretary in the registrar’s office that
I had just paid my bill. She then asked me to show
her a receipt or some sort of proof that I had paid
my bill. I then inquired if my word was not suffi-
cient proof. The secretary then told me that it was
not the registrar’s policy simply to accept the
word of a student in this case.

My question is a very simple one: What right
does the registrar have to simply disregard a stu-
dent’s word as the truth? Is it written somewhere
that the administrative offices of the university are
not covered by the Honor Code? Did General Lee
say, ‘‘students of the university will not lie, cheat
or steal, unless registering for classes,’’?

As W&L students, we should demand that as
long as the honor system exists our word should
be considered the absolute truth under any cir-
cumstances,

Sincerely,
F. Skip Sugarman ’91

Thanks and more thanks

To the Editors:
It feels like I’ve been gone forever, but I’m

back now and have to thank some people who

were so good to me while I was gone.

Thanks, Dean John, for taking care of all the
administrative stuff. Thanks to all my professors
for trying to help me catch- up, to my Psych 180
class for the great card, to all my friends who real-
ly helped keep me going, and to Jamie just for be-
ing there. You all are the best!

Eileen Labashinsky ’90

 

 

 

we ow ee
rm vy
 

 

 

‘NEWS/OPINION

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1988

 

Wa&L receives grant

 

’ From Staff Reports

 

WA&L has received a $750,000 chal-

}* lenge grant from The Christian A.
, Johnson Endeavor Foundation of New

York toward construction of the uni-
versity’s Center for the Performing

. Arts.

“*This grant constitutes a major sti-

* mulus as we move into the final stages

_ of our fund raising for this important

project,’’ said W&L President John
D. Wilson. ‘‘We deeply appreciate

' . that The Christian A. Johnson Endea-
vor Foundation has offered this help

 

 

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee rejected
White Book Revisions Committee’s
proposed phrase, ‘‘untrustworthy
acts’’ in the Philosophy section of the
White Book. The rejection, however,
is not final until the EC revotes on the
issue in two weeks.

The EC decided to pass over the
phrase when they started reviewing
changes recommended by the re-
visions committee Monday night.

By deciding not to accept it, they
effectively rejected it.

EC Representative Nave said, ‘‘In
law school, we would call this ’void
for vagueness.’ It could mean any-
thing.”

Other EC members disagreed with
the language, but agreed with the con-
cept.
‘I think we’ve had that power [to
hear honor trials on issues other than
lying, cheating, or stealing} all
along,’’ said EC Vice-President Pat
Schaefer.

Next year’s EC President, Christo-
pher deMovellan, picked passages out
of the White Book that supported this
point of view.

In other EC news, Contact, the
International Club and the Political
Review appeared before the EC for
budget reports, and a new club, Field
Hockey, made a budget request.

David McLeod appeared for Con-
tact. He said Contact plans to have

Will Harbison, °87 undergra-
duate, *90 law ‘‘I think it would be
too harsh. I think it would be another
example of the impersonal, bu-
reaucratic direction in which W&L is

 

and especially that it has come in tie
form of a challenge we can use to open
new doors of commitment.”

The Johnson challenge is divided
into three parts. The university
receives one-third of the grant once
the project reaches the 50 percent
point in its funding. In the case of the
Center for the Performing Arts, the
campaign passed the halfway mark in
early December when the university
received $250,000 from the Johnson
foundation.

The second third of the grant will be
awarded once the project is 75 percent
funded and the final third will be paid
on completion of the project.

-EC tables proposal of
White Book Committee

two more speakers before the year is
out, and will finish with a surplus.

The International Club recently
took a sightseeing trip to Williams-
burg and Busch Gardens, said Jennifer
Spreng. They will finish up the year
on schedule with a cookout and a
farewell party for the exchange stu-
dents.

Greg Dale appeared for the Political
Review. He said they had ‘‘a really
fine issue’’ and about 500 copies
would be distributed next week.

Nicole Liarakos made a budget
request to start a new club, Field
Hockey.

She said there are currently 32 girls
signed up for the club. She expects the
number to rise to 50. Their coach
would be a female law student.

The EC too no action telling her
they would consider the request.

On Tuesday the EC announced
some of the Committee appointments
for next year.

The EC decided David Grove
would be chairman of the SAB and
John Roach would head Contact.

In other committee appointments
Ron Brown and John Symonds will
co-chair the Mock Convention com-
mittee. Brown and Symonds are to
make sure all the Convention’s re-
cords are in order.

Charles Driscoll was appointed
head of the Emergency Loan Commit-
tee, James Rambeau the head of the
Cold Check Committee, and Jun-Ho
Lee the head of the Voting Regula-
tions Board.

 

Do you think a professor should drop a student from
a course if that student misses the first class of the term?

Simone Schonenberger, freshman
“*Yes, I think they should because a
lot of people who want to get into
classes don’t know until the next week
and miss a whole week of school.’’

 

Stick up

Representatives of W&L, VMI, and the city of Lexington
exchanged lacrosse sticks before the Lee-Jackson Classic last
week. From the left, Joe King, Lexington city manager; Boyd

Stuart, Lexington vice-mayor; General Sam Walker, superinten- 5,

Students attend conference

 

From Staff Reports

 

Two W&L students presented a
paper at the recent Midwest Regional
Colloquium of the Association for
Education in Journalism and Mass
Communications. The colloquium
was held at the University of Wiscon-
sin—Eau Claire.

Rebecca Reynolds, a sophomore
from Jenkintown, Pa., and Christo-
pher Crane, a sophomore from Mont-
gomery, Ala., presented ‘‘Recent

Changes in the Effects of Media Use
on Political Activity and Knowledge’
at the meeting of journalism profes-
sors and scholars. In their paper,
Reynolds and Crane reported that
those members of the public who are
most knowledgeable about and active
in politics are heavy users of both
newspapers and, for the first time,
television.

In past studies, researches have
found that attention to television news
had little or no relation to political
knowledge or activity.

Wa&L scholars present papers

 

From Staff Reports

 

Eight W&L students, all members
of the University Scholars program,
gave scholarly presentations at the re-
cent spring meeting of the Virginia
Collegiate Honors Council. More than
50 college students from across the
State attended the meeting at the Alex-
andria campus of the Northern Vir-
ginia Community College.

students and their presentations
areas follows:

—Bernadette Kempton, a freshman
from Harrisonburg, ‘‘A Good Begin-
ning’’ (how to start up honors pro-
grams in the fall).

—O. Gray Rand, a freshman from
Madison Heights, ‘‘Possible Solutions
for Deforested and Desertified Coun-
tries.”’

—H. Klar Yaggi, a sophomore from
Potomac, Md., and R. Scott Cornell,
a sophomore from Hopkinsville, Ky.,
‘*Research on Beta-Adrenergic Re-
ceptors on Amphibian Hearts’’ (with
W&L faculty members Cleveland P.
Hickman, Jr. and Robert Akins).

 

TALKBACK

 

et ee

 

Dirk van Assendelft, junior ‘‘No.
There might be reasons other than him
not wanting to be in the class that he’s
not there for the first class. If they
want to do something like that, I’d

 

Krista Vollack, freshman ‘‘I think
so because it causes too much of a
problem for the faculty and also too
much of a problem for students who
would like to be in that class.’

dent of VMI; Dennis Daly, W&L lacrosse coach; John D. Wilson,
president of W&L; and Doug Bartlett, VMI lacrosse coach. VMI
won the game and the Lee-Jackson Trophy, 15-9. See story on Pg.

 

2 papers
presented

From Staff Reports

 

 

Two W&L students presented
papers at the recent 61st meeting of
the Virginia Social Science Associa-
tion at Sweet Briar College.

Tom Langheim, a senior sociology
and anthropology major from Salem,
presented a paper that chronicled the
pottery manufacturing industry in Al-
leghany County. Langheim’s paper
was co-written by Kurt Russ, W&L
research archaeologist.

John Metz, a senior anthropology
major from Florissant, Md., docu-
mented the excavation at an early 19th
century brick kiln within the Liberty
Hall Academy site complex. Metz’s
paper was co-written by Russ and
John McDaniel, professor of an-
thropology at W&L.

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Schtick up

Cliff Deal performs a Monty Python skit as part of Tuesday’s Brit Fest activities in the
newly-completed Gaines Hall Gatehouse. Also participating in Tuesday’s skits were
Hughes Melton, Martin Burlingame, Jimm Cobb, and Blair Simmons. Brit Fest is a
week long celebration of Great Britain organized by Oxford exchange student Kate
Peppiatt.

 

 

 

Billy Tunner, sophomore ‘‘] don’t
think the faculty should have that
prerogative, because you are still try-
ing to get your schedule straight, and
you need time to figure out exactly

Mike Dunmyer, senior ‘‘That
seems more like a large college idea
than a small college where we are
oriented toward a more personal ap-
proach here. That would be something

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    

 

Sun. 1-5

        

 
     
     
   
   
 

going.” wait until halfway through the what you want to take.”’ you might need with a large number of
drop/add week.”’ students, but not here.
——
a Memorable Dining In Gracious Se
KELLY S CORNER a Accommodations With Superb Service eorge & Hairstylis
EEN EC) FS EE .
On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington . " : a Full Menu Including Lobster Tails, since 1963
E||EEVEE
463-5452 celleelleelice! Lamb, Veal, Italian And ; :
RE TeR Col Cajun Dishes directly behind Leggett’s
sae 136 Varner Lane
OR, Featuring Raw Bar with Clams 463-3975
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.
1 Mill St Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell
Sta ; Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close ‘ f '
BUSCH GPR, ...ccccccciee F cieiveetipvisas es $9.25case ply iui dnickaamen
¢
PE DOE cicivencsiscsdirprerinadissisncresmeiasasievenes 2/99 .
4 1 49 V il T SUGRTOLCUVUCEUCEEEEC EC CUTUUUTOER ELE GOHUUTEED OE coe CUUUEERERELEE EGE ROTEREEEERE DA GAGETEERU ESE GORRERETEOREACTOGEERTEEAEARUECEODEEESOEEHOER
BASQUES vincccsiscsssssorverscssssassresonnsescsansseserees . alle rue V :
y alue Hardware Merle Norman Cosmetics
M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.
Kelly’s Corner Means on P irs
RO i oe... Sal -
Kegs and Service /. Price Cosmetic Sale
The Tradition Continues HARDWARE STORES Tanning Beds
5 visits $29.00
j air eS isi $49.00 Ultra Pointe with Overlay
watt Hardware, Paint & Related Items Manicures ot ond ibm
Open 7 days Miles & Sandy Nye, proprietors E. Nel Street ‘is
tea ike — Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00 ieee

 

 

Mimi tT
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May

5, 1988

 

Art alumnus

set to speak

 

From Staff Reports

 

   

Confetti’s

    

a.m. until 12 p.m. A ticket for the
entire weekend costs $40 per cou-
ple, and a ticket for the Friday
night banquet alone costs $15.
Cups and T-shirts will be available
along with ticket sales. Cups costs
$1 apiece, and $1.50 for two.

The second annual women’s
weekend, Confetti’s 1988, will
occur the weekend of May 20, 21,
and 22.

The weekend includes four main
events, beginning with a banquet
given for the female students and

 

Artist Turner Jones McGehee, a
1975 W&L graduate, will deliver a
lecture entitled ‘‘Eros vs. Thanatos:
Creativity and the Dying Artist in the
Snows of Kilimanjaro’’ Monday, May
9 at 8 p.m. in duPont Auditorium. The
lecture is open to the public.

A_ psychology major at W&L,
McGehee continued his studies in art
at the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro, where he received his
M.F.A. His lecture will combine his
interests in both psychology and art.

McGehee has taught art at Hastings
College in Nebraska since 1983. In
1987, he received a Rotary Interna-
tional Study Exchange Fellowship for
research in Nigeria and Great Britain.
His works will be included in the ex-

T-shirts costs $10 apiece, and $18
for two.

For more information come to
Trident’s meeting on Monday at
7:30 p.m. in the Arlington Center.

faculty at the Paddock Room in the
Ramada Inn, 7:30 p.m. Friday
night. The guest speaker at the
banquet will be announced.

On Saturday afternoon, from |
p.m. until 4 p.m., the festivities
continue at Zollman’s Pavillion.
The women and their dates will
hear the trio Derry Berry and Ala-
sia. Then, from 9 p.m. until |
a.m., the band N’est Pas will play
in the grass area between the li-
brary and the Woods Creek
Apartments. The weekend will
conclude with a brunch on Sunday
Afternoon from 12:30-2 p.m. at
the Liberty Hall Ruins.

Tickets for Confetti’s 1988 will
be sold in the Arlington Center on

Language link

A National teleconference on
emerging technologies in modern
language instruction will be held
Tuesday, May 10 from 8 to 10
p.m. in Tucker 406. The public is
invited.

Peer counselors

 

 

 

 

 

umn é , 4 19 fi 10
hibit, ‘Al hades ty doen May 16, 17, 18, and rom
Gallery May 2 through June 3. His
works have been exhibited in nu- e ; :
merous galleries across the country SERVIOTAR. a | on a
one appeared in many pub- 23 S. Main position of peer counselor for next
: = os Lexington, Va. 24450 year. Applicants should have a
Ph te che ice oan Lexington Hardware minimum GPA of 2.25, sufficient
partme = time in their personal schedule to
fine arts at W&L. 463-2242 3 | pannk feobenineebe 10 hes.
CRUISE SHIPS per week involvement, and a sin-
NOW HIRING M/F hors oe eee ae eee
Summer & Career Opportunities CD Specialities Applicants will also be selected

(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world
travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean,
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext.

495J.

 

partly on the basis of their emo-
tional maturity and common sense.
If you feel you are qualified and

Unique Musical Selections for the :
are interested, please contact Carol

unique music listener

 

a ae

Featuring: Imports, Progresseive &

 

See Doug Turrell
W&L ’87

 

for all your new car needs.

350/4 cyld.
$500. For info call Victor
Vesely
at Courtesy Ford/Mercury 463-6956
Buena Vista

Calkins in Room 104 of the Uni-
versity Center for an application
and interview time. Deadline to
apply will be Friday, May 13.

Classic
Special mail order service available.
New CDs from $7.99-$13.99. We buy
and sell used CDs.

Roanoke/Salem Plaza

 

General Notes

Awareness week

Amnesty International is kicking
off its Human Rights Awareness
Week with double speakers on hu-
man rights abuses in Africa.
Bishop and Mrs. Ogwal will be
speaking on their experiences in
Uganda. Professor and Mrs. Ri-
chardson will be speaking on their
experiences in South Africa. It will
be held in Northern Auditorium
(library) starting at 7:30 p.m.
Monday, May 16th. All are invited
to attend!

Oval Interns

Students interested in working in
the White House next fall should
come by room 108 of the Com-
merce School between 2-4 p.m.
any day next week.

Summer school

College credit can be earned dur-
ing summer 1988 in a variety of
disciplines including biology, ge-
ology, sociology, religion, politi-
cal science, physical education and
art at Phillips University’s Colora-
do Field Campus. Located at an
elevation of 8600 feet in the San
Juan Mountains of the south-
central part of the state, the Camp
is the site of continuous program-

ming from late May into Septem-
ber. In addition to a traditional
summer school format with 1, 3
and 6 week courses there are a var-
iety of week-long special interest
workshops (i.e. cabin building, or-
nithology, mycology). Most cour-
ses emphasize an applied approach
which incorporates field experi-
ences.

Located 26 miles from Monte
Vista in the pristine Alamosa Can-
yon, the campus is self-contained,
pumping its own water and ge-
nerating its own power. All cabins
have modern conveniences. For
further information outlining costs,
specific course offerings and regis-
tration details, call (405) 237-4433
ext. 315, or write Dr. Jeff Burk-
hart, Phillips University Field
Campus, University Station Box
2000, Enid, OK 73702-2000.

Party poems

Elizabeth Seydel Morgan, assis-
tant professor of English, will give
a poetry reading Wednesday, May
11 at 4 p.m. in room 21 of Payne
Hall. The public is invited to at-
tend.

Morgan will be reading from her
forthcoming book, Parties, which
will be published in June by the
Louisiana State University Press.
Her poetry has appeared in nu-
merous publications, including
W&L’s literacy review, Shenan-
doah, The Iowa Review, The
Georgia Review, and The New
England Journal of Medicine.

 

Saturday scrum

The Rugby Club has a home
game against Roanoke this Satur
day at 1 p.m. on the football prac
tice field.

FD photos

Fancy Dress Party Pictures are in.
You can pick them up in the Uni-
versity Center outside Carol Cal-
kins’ office.

Flick finale

The W&L Film Society will
close out its 1987-1988 season with
the uproarious A Private Function
(England, 1985), directed by Mal-
colm Mowbray. The film is being
presented in conjunction with a
week of British cultural activities
on campus.

Showings will be at 8:00 on Fri-
day 6 May and Sunday 7 May in
Classroom ‘‘A’’ in Lewis Hall.
There is no charge for admission.
This film is in English.

A wickedly funny, sophisticated
comedy set in post-World War II
England, A Private Function de-
tails the epic, but petty power
struggle over a much-coveted pig
(named Betty) during a time of
post-war food rationing. The film
features Michael Palin (formerly of
Monty Python) as a quietly des-
perate foot doctor, the great Mag-
gie Smith as his gauchely style-
conscious wife, and Denholm El-
liott as a witheringly snobbish doc-
tor. Great fun.

 

 

Roanoke, Va (703) 366-7084

 

 

 

For Sale
1974 Motorcycle

Honda

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$400 CASH FROM FORD
AND PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT.

At Courtesy
cially. So here's what we offer. If

you've graduated, or will graduate,
with a Bachelor's or advanced degree
between October 1, 1987 and Janu-

ary 31, 1989, you may qualify for

$400 from Ford and pre-approved For all the details, contact us or
credit from Ford Motor Credit Com- call Program Headquarters, toll free,
pany. To qualify for pre-approved at 1-800-321-1536.

credit, you need: (1) verifiable Ford Motor But hurry. This limited time offer is
employment beginning within 120 Credit only available between March 1 and
days after your vehicle purchase; December 31, 1988. So take advan-
(2) a salary sufficient to cover normal Com pany tage of the Ford/Mercury College

living expenses plus a car payment;

REWARD

AND THE CREDIT YOU DESERVE!

), we know
how hard it is to get started finan-

$400

 

and (3) if you have a credit record, it
must indicate payment made as
agreed.

The $400 from Ford is yours
whether you finance or not. Keep it or
apply it to the purchase or lease of an
eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle.

 

Graduate Purchase Program now.

ee]

 

COURTESY

Ford

 

 

 

 

 

 

aco

 

Mercury

 

 

    
 

Sherry Burner, formally of Marie’s and
Angie Mutispaugh, formally of The Hair Shack
would like to welcome you to their
new Hair Salon

Shear Timing

17 S. Randolph St.
Opening Monday, May 9
Call for an appointment
464-1145 (the new exchange)

ae

 

din

Pay rate:

$5/hour weekends

$4/hour weekdays
BONUS PLAN

 

 

 

 

 

FUN

 

 

 

 

Weekly
Schedules
of 35-45 hrs.
in the summer

 

 

 

    

Phone: 463-3614

EAST LEX

US 11 North

Open ‘til midnite

  

 

   

Weeke

Interview Hours: Mon. -
For more information or an employment brochure
call or write: Kings Dominion Personnel Dept.,
Box 166, Doswell, VA. 23047 804-876-5145

   

Job

Opportuniti

F
¥

umm

  

EOE

Miller Lite LN ............ceecsseseseseese-9 Os 99Case
III, iaccincacsisitecitossccacescdicococssscelll cee

Has More
Than
(Dominion

75 miles south of Washington, D.C. and 20 miles north of Richmond, Va., on 1-95.

 
 
 
 
  

 

 

   

A
Great
Working
Environment

 

 

Sat. 9 AM -5 PM

  
    
           
    

 

FRIENDS

 

 

 

 

EMPLOYEE
ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

  
 
         
      
  

  
     
 

 

 

 
SPORTS

VMI marches
past W&L lax

VMI wins Lee-Jackson trophy
No. 2 Hobart next for Generals

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

What a difference a year makes.

When the VMI lacrosse team played
host to W&L last spring, the final
score was 15-9, and attackman John
Ware was the Generals’ top scorer.

Saturday, 12 months and a lot of la-
crosse games later, the final score was
again 15-9, and Ware was again the
Generals’ points leader.

But the similarities between the
seasons end there. The 1988 Generals,
unlike their 11-4 predecessors, are
2-10 and losers of their last eight
games, while the 11-3 Keydets can
boast their school’s best lacrosse
season ever,

For both programs, the past 12
months have brought major changes.
VMI, home of the nation’s leading
scorer and the Lee-Jackson Trophy,
can now demand the respect normally
accorded better-than-average lacrosse
teams, while W&L can only hope to
re-group and recover from its worst
record since 1969.

Saturday’s meeting may have been
the first Lee-Jackson Classic, but,
with only a few exceptions, it was
hardly ‘‘classic’’ from W&L’s pers-
pective.

‘*Early on, I think we made a lot of
mistakes,’’ said W&L midfielder
Chris Mastrogiovanni. ‘‘I guess that
was too much to overcome in the
end.”’

Going into the game, the Generals
were looking to shut down VMI at-
tackman David Hope, and for good
reason. Hope came into the game as
America’s leading scorer (50 goals
and 19 assists) and the Michael Jordan
of the Keydet offense.

**We felt that, if we could shut him
down, that would curtail them,’ said
head coach Dennis Daly.

Certain things are always in style. Like tradition .

And, as Hope later admitted, the
Generals effectively took out VMI's
biggest gun. Sophomore all-America
defenseman Reid Campbell blanketed
Hope throughout the afternoon, strip-
ping him of the ball repeatedly and li-
miting the nation’s scoring leader to
only one point, a garbage goal late
when the game was already out of
reach.

“*The game was, in many respects,
played the way we wanted to play it,”’
said Daly. ‘‘The problem was that
their other people rose to the occa-
sion.””

Keydet attackmen John Ancona and
Tim Nolan each scored four goals and
one assist, leading the way for VMI
and filling in for the hapless Hope.
Keydet midfielder Grant Kiehl added
two goals and four assists.

As they had in 10 of their 11 preced-
ing games, the Generals fell behind
early. The Keydets scored four goals
in the game’s first 11 minutes and held
the Generals scoreless until sopho-
more attackman Chris Giblin found
the net with two minutes left in the
first quarter.

Ancona answered less than a minute
later, but Ware scored the first goal of
the second period to again put W&L
within three. The Keydets ran off
three straight to go up 7-2 but were hit
with a procedure penalty with 43-se-
conds left that put W&L a man up and
sent Daly to the last page of the W&L
playbook.

After a timeout, the W&L offense
huddled at the top of the restraining
line to set up lacrosse’s version of
football’s ‘‘water-bucket play.’’: All

five Generals came up firing, but it
was senior midfielder Sandy Harrison
who had the ball and sent it home to
cut the difference to four, 7-3, at half-
time.

In the second half, four penalties in
the first nine minutes led to only one

 

. SUCCESS .

and Jostens College Rings. Set yourself apart from the cro Wl with this symbol of success

JOST ENS

A: W-E-R LEA

Date: May 5,6, 7

Place: University Bookstore

G ©. Cnet. .@.e

Time; 10am- 3pm

Ringw

Deposit Required: 315.00

Payment Pans Available

Meet with your Jostens representative for full details. See our complete ring selection on display in your college bookstore.

87 2OKCP 131-68)

 

PVDVP VP

Duckheads

American Express

 

Corbin Silk Blazers

WA&L Crest Ties

Gitman Shirts

Ruff Hewn/Men & Women

 

Welcome Alumni 1988
The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.
x * -®

Since 1926

Boston Traders
Tassel Loafers
Ladies Shorts

Sweaters/Jayson Younger
Unbelievble Ties!

No visit to Lexington is complete
without a stop at CTS - See You!

Master Charge

POP VDP OPVPV LP OLPOLPOLPOLPOLIVLP OLIV POP OLOGY

The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1988

 

 

Two Keydets make a sandwich out of a General during Saturday’s

Lee-Jackson classic.

extra-man goal, a shot by Harrison
that countered an early third-quarter
goal by Nolan and made the score 8-4
with six minutes left in the period.

VMI middie Tom Spivey scored
less than a minute later to put the
Keydets back up by five, but goals by
Mastrogiovanni and Giblin cut the
margin to three, 9-6, late in the third
quarter.

But three was as close as it got.
VMI scored the last goal of the third
period and the first three goals of the
fourth to go up 13-6 and put the game
out of reach.

The Generals will end their season
Saturday afternoon in Fort Washing-
ton, Pa., against Hobart College. The
Statesmen broke UCLA’s record for
consecutive national championships in
a team sport by winning their eighth
straight Division IT title in 1987.

Hobart lacrosse is having a down
year in 1988, however. The Statesmen
are only 6-1 against D-III opponents
and are only ranked second in the
country.

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Hobart’s only D-III loss came in
overtime at top-ranked Ohio Wesley-
an. The Statesmen’s 9-4 overall re-
cord includes a 16-8 defeat by Syra-
cuse in the Carrier Dome, a 15-14
season-opening loss to C.W. Post and
a 17-15 loss at Cornell.

The only national champion D-III
lacrosse has ever known, Hobart lost
outstanding players to graduation in
1987 but has since seen last year’s
bench develop into a balanced group
of superb starters.

The 1988 Statesmen are led on
offense by all-America attacker Tom
Gravante (44 goals and 15 assists in 13
games) and attackman Jim Bardwell
(25 and 21).

The Hobart defense is ‘‘pressure-
oriented, big and very athletic,’’ ac-
cording to Daly, who said senior Mi-
chael Sheehan is the Statesmen’s top
defender. Their starting goalie is jun-
ior Shawn Trell, who had a 6-3 record
in nine games after recording 117
saves and allowing only 84 goals.

No. 3 ranked netters
handily defeat Emory

 

By Stuart Sheldon
Staff Reporter

 

As the W&L men’s tennis team
winds its season to a close, the Gen-
erals find themselves in excellent con-
tention for a bid to the Division II
National Championships, to be held in
Lexington May 16-22.

The Generals helped assure their
spot by upping their record to 13-7
with a win against Emory University
this past weekend.

Team members flew to Atlanta,
Georgia, on Friday in order to prepare
for their Saturday afternoon contest
against the Emory Eagles. As of April
28, the Eagles had been ranked No. 11
in the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches’
Association (ITCA) poll. W&L went
into the contest ranked No. 3 in the
nation, behind No. 1 University of Ca-
lifornia at Santa Cruz and No. 2
Swarthmore, in that same poll.

Earlier in the week head coach Gary
Franke said that Emory was ‘‘the kind
of team that could beat you’’ if it were
given a chance. He went on to say that
the Eagles had lost to several Div. III
Top 20 teams in close contests. There
would be no upsets on this day,
though, as the Generals won the meet-
ing 8- 1.

In singles action, W&L’s No. |
player, junior Bobby Matthews,
defeated Emory’s Jimmy Strauss 6-2,
6-3. Strauss had been ranked No. 11
in an April 29 ITCA poll for singles
players. Matthews was ranked No. 6
in the same survey.

Junior Robert Haley, playing at the
No. 2 position for the Generals and
rated No. 15 in the nation, needed
four tie-breaker points in the first set
before defeating Gavin O’Connell 7-6
(4), 6-1.

Ranked No. 51 nationally, W&L
senior co-captain David McLeod lost
his lengthy No. 3 singles match
against upstart Andy Fine at the wire
7-5, 2-6, 7-6 (5). Sophomore John
Morris, playing at No. 4 for the Gen-
erals, defeated Mike Beck 7-5, 6-1.

At No. 5, senior co-captain Chris
Wiman battled back after losing the

first set to win against Brian Harris

6-7 (5), 6-1, 6- 3. Bill Meadows, a
freshman playing No. 6 for W&L,
beat Chris Walser 6-3, 7-6 (4).

The Generals will finish up their
season Saturday afternoon on the up-
per courts against Hampton Institute.
After completing that match, W&L’s
playoff picture will rest in the hands of
a simple telephone call.

The Tournament Selection Commit-
tee’s conference call to select the eight
teams that will vie for the national title
will be held on Sunday.

Franke said that ‘‘there is a toss-up
between 2nd through 4th, and there
are several teams on the bubble for
that eighth spot.’’ As a committee
member, Franke has his work cut out
for him. A look at the team standings
in the ITCA poll will show why.

UC-Santa Cruz, with their un-
defeated D-III record, have a virtual
lock on the No. 1 seed for the week-
end. There is a tie-up, however, be-
tween Swarthmore, currently No. 2,
the No. 3 Generals and Washington
College, who is No. 4. W&L played
Swarthmore and Washington on the
same weekend, suffering a loss to
Washington (4-5) while getting a win
over Swarthmore (7-2). '

Swarthmore beat weciitaia,
however, so the Generals score
ing points with this indirect win.
These indirect points are also holding
the Generals back. Early in thd
season, W&L lost to Penn State, who,
later fell to Swarthmore. It is practicas
lly a dead tie between the three teams. } :

“It all depends on how you score
[the results},”” said Franke. Three
different systems yield three _—
rankings. i

Franke will have no easier time fi
guring out which teams will fill out the!
second four. Kalamazoo, the defend-}
ing national champs, seems to have a?
lock on the No. 5 position, but it is UP}
for grabs after that. UC-San Diego,} ;
Clairmont (Calif.), University of the}
South, Whitman College (Wash.), i
University of Rochester, Emory, andé

Gustavus Adolphus (Minn.) all have af
chance at a tournament bid. {

 

 

 

 

22 West Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Fine Clothing, Jewelry
and Accessories
For Ladies

The Ladies’ Habit Welcomes
All W&L Alumni For
This Reunion Weekend

 

 

LEXINGTON SHOP
FOR
PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing and Accessories

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-5988

 

    
  

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

For Mother’s Day,
give Mom a work
of art.

Handcrafted pottery
by Emerson Creek
Free Shipping

Viiginiw

 

 

. a : =
BORN | &} BRED, INC,

 

 

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

 

Wendell's
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

 

 

W&L’s
Independent Union

presents
Springfest ’88
Sunday May 15, 1988

Free Barbeque
and
Music by

The Press

 
 

=BACK PAGE

 

Gilbert &

Sullivan

opens in Lee Chapel
Monday night

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

The W&L/Mary Baldwin produc-
tion of Patience, the Gilbert and Sul-
livan operetta about a nineteenth cen-
tury battle of the sexes, will debut
Monday night at 8 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

The operetta, W&L’s third Gilbert
and Sullivan production with Mary
Baldwin in four years (last spring
members of the Glee Club sang in a
Roanoke opera company production
of The Student Prince), is a satire of
the aestheticism movement of the late
nineteenth century.

The story centers around a flaky
**fleshy poet’’ named Bunthorne who
thinks he loves everyone, the perfect
‘‘idyllic poet’? Grosvenor who has
always loved Patience and wants to
marry her, and the picture of purity
Patience who has been told that love is
totally unselfish and that she must
marry Bunthorne.

Mary Baldwin senior Kathy Als-
brooks will sing the title role with
support from W&L seniors John
Starks and Lance Rae as Grosvenor
and Bunthorne. All three leads are

veterans of the spring productions
each having performed in two of the
three operettas (Iolanthe, Princess
Ida andPatience) presented since
1985.

‘Patience is a great show and this
production has alot of talented people
who are good and fun to work
with,‘‘said Alsbrooks. ‘‘They have
made being in the show a great expe-
rience.”’

W&L seniors Tom O’Brien and Mi-
chael Herrin will sing the roles of the
Duke and the Major while Mary
Baldwin professor Stevens Garlick
will sing the part of the Colonel. Mary
Baldwin singers Dorene Dillon, Heidi
Rundt and Sheresa Perry as well as
Rita Alvis, who will make her Gilbert
and Sullivan debut as the domineering
Lady Jane, will anchor the chorus as
the rapturous maidens. Mary Baldwin
music professor Robert Allen will ac-
company the operetta.

The production will run in Lee
Chapel May 9 and 10. Tickets are
$2.50 for students and $3 for adults
while Senior citizens can attend for
$2. Both performances are open to
members of the W&L community free
of charge. For reservations or more
information call 463-8861.

 

ATIENCE

o Burlhome Bude
Rook by W. SF. Gillbel
Music by thin Fellivan

 

 

‘The W&L/Mary Baldwin production of the Gilbert & Sullivan operetta

opens Monday night in Lee Chapel.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1988

 

     

Friday, May 6
Washington and Lee Alumni Reunions
Undergraduate Registration for Fall Term ends.
9 a.m. & 2 p.m.—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT:
Discussions with W&L Alumni. Advance sign up in CD&P office:
9 a.m.—‘‘Financial Services and New York Business,’’ Room 108,
University Center.
2 p.m.—‘‘A Dual Career Family Talks with Students,’ Room 114,
University Center.
3 p.m.—PANEL DISCUSSION: ‘‘Is There Life for an Artist After a
Liberal Arts Education?’’ featuring W&L alumni artists. duPont Audi-
torium. Reception to follow.
8 p.m.—PLAY: ‘“‘L’Histoire du Soldat’’ by Igor Stravinsky. Music
conducted by Rob Stewart with guest choreographer Kathy Kroll. Uni-
versity Theatre. For reservations call theater office, 463-8637.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: A Private Function (England, 1985). Class-
room ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.

Saturday, May 7
Washington and Lee Alumni Reunions.
7:30 a.m.—BIRDWALK: Woods Creek parking lot (near W&L law
school). Public invited.
9 a.m.—WATER POLO: Generals vs. Alumni. Twombly Pool.
12 Noon—MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Hampton University. Varsity
Courts.
8 p.m.—PLAY: ‘‘L’Histoire du Soldat.’’ University Theatre. For re-
servations, call 463-8637.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: A Private Function (England, 1985). Class-
room ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: LACROSSE: Hobart; TRACK: UVA
Invitational.

Sunday, May 8
3 p.m.—PLAY: “‘L’Histoire du Soldat.’’ University Theatre. For re-
servations, call 463-8637.

-Monday, May 9
Noon—University Women’s Luncheon. Evans Dining Hall.
5:30 p.m.—BRITFEST: British dinner in Evans Dining Hall.
8 p.m.—JAPANESE FILM FESTIVAL: The Mistress, directed by
Shiro Toyoda. Room 327, Commerce School.
8 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘Eros vs. Thanatos: Creativity and the Dying Ar-
tist in the Snows of Kilimanjaro,’’ Turner McGehee, W&L °75. duPont
Auditorium. Reception to follow. Public invited.

Tuesday, May 10
3  p.m.—PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM: ‘“‘Through the Looking
Glass—An X-Ray View of Laser Fusion,’’ Paul D. Rockett, KMS Fu-
sion, Inc. Room 201, Parmly Hall. Public invited.

Calendar

Tuesday, May 10 (continued)

4:30 p.m.—GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: Reading and
talk by James Welch, novelist. Northen Auditorium, University Li-
brary. Public invited.

8 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘Laser Fusion: Power for the 21st Century?’’
Paul D. Rockett, KMS Fusion, Inc. Room 327, Commerce School. Pub-
lic invited.

Wednesday, May 11
Law School examinations end.
4 p.m.—ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: Poetry reading by Elizabeth
oa Morgan, W&L English dept. Room 21, Payne Hall. Public in-
vited.
7:3 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: On the Beach. Room 327, Com-
merce School.

Thursday, May 12
5 p.m.—CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘‘Hot Melt Pressure Sensitive Ad-
hesives Based on Amorphous Polyolefins,’’ Richard K. Stuart, Jr.,
W&L °74, Texas Eastman. Room 401, Howe Hall. Refreshments at
4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.
7:3 p.m.—POLITCS FILMFEST: On the Beach. Room 327, Com- i
merce School.
7:30 p.m.—CONTACT LECTURE: Elliott Abrams, assistant secretary
of state for Inter-American Affairs. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Friday, May 13
Medical Ethics Institute.

Saturday, May 14
Medical Ethics Institute.
7:30 a.m.—BIRDWALK: Woods Creek parking lot (near W&L law
school). Public invited.

Sunday, May 15
Medical Ethics Institute.

Monday, May 16
All day—MEN’S TENNIS: NCAA Divison III Championships. Varsity
Courts (through May 22).
8 p.m.—JAPANESE FILM FESTIVAL: The Makioka Sisters, directed
by Kon Ichikawa. Room 327, Commerce School.
7:30 p.m.—HUMAN RIGHTS NOW! EVENT: PANEL DIS-
CUSSION: Bishop and Mrs. Ogwal, Rev. and Mrs. Neville Richard-
son. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

5

.

 

 

 

    

near, Sen het, ie
Shih eae

  
  
 

‘ s a
Be} ya eR
. = "4.
wre hag sh | = Seat op
8 Fyaty OT aed t

W&L
Snack Bar

 

THE WASHINGTON & LEE
BOOKSTORE
Annual Sidewalk Sale

May 18-19

10 a.m. -2 p.m.
Rain Date - May 20
Books - Posters - Clothes

 

Tall Cold Frosty Milkshakes

5° or 3/4 pt. Broken Sizes - Limited Stock

Sorry... No... Returns, Layaways, Holds, Refunds, or Try-ons!
Come early and save!!

 

 

 

For remainder of school year
Nights Only

 

 

 

Aluvin-Bennis

Welcome Alumni

CELEBRATE SPRING

WITH

DIXIELAND SWING!

THE RUSTY NICHOLS
DIXIELAND JAZZ BAND

 

Alumni Special
Suits 20% Off

 

 

 

Sport Coats and Suits
by Haspel, Gant & Oritsky
Sero Shirts
Bass Weejuns & Topsider Shoes
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek
Duck Head Cotton Pants
Bermuda Shorts plaids & solids
Jams, OP & Birdwell Swimsuits
W&L - Belts - Ties - Key Chains

SATURDAY, MAY 7, 1988
9:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS

THIS PARTY IS OPEN TO W&L ALUMNI,
STUDENTS AND STAFF ONLY.

BEER AND WINE WILL BE SOLD
WITH PROPER I.D.

(Since 1963)
MasterCard
95:30 Monday-Saturday

Choice Student Charge

 

 

 

 
