-

«

~

’

1

‘

- - 1
5 (6+ Kd
eo = a
G—1
i
4 0!
, an
-

 

VOLUME 87, NUMBER 20

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Che Ring-tum Phi

MARCH 10, 1988

 

deMovellan, Finkelstein win;
Parker, Yu in runoff today

 

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

 

For Christopher de Movellan and
Hugh Finkelstein, the Big Three Elec-
tions on Monday were a success. For
Alston Parker and Edward Yu,
however, the elections are not quite
over. They continued to vie for the
position of EC secretary in a run-off
election today.

De Movellan captured 55 percent of
the vote over Matt Bryant for presi-
dent, while Finkelstein defeated Chris
Giblin with 64 percent of the vote for
the position of vice-president. For
Parker and Yu, the results were
somewhat closer. Parker and Yu
received 40 percent and 41 percent of
the vote respectively, knocking oppo-

nent David Grove out of the race.

De Movellan hopes to improve stu-
dent involvement with the Student Ac
tivities Board. Due to the change in
the drinking age, attendance in con-
certs and other SAB activities has
been low. He also would like to em-
phasize the role of the EC as a fact-
finding body rather than as a prosecut-
ing body in matters concerning the
honor code.

Finkelstein faces the future with two
major goals. From a law school pers-
pective, he hopes to close the gap be-
tween the law school and the under-
graduate school. Looking at the stu-
dent body as a whole, Finkelstein
would like to work on the Mock Con-
vention budget because ‘‘it takes a
chunk out of the budget every four
years, devastating different student

organizations.”’

Voter turn-out in the elections on
Monday was relatively high. Out of
1,878 students, 1,252 students voted,
which amounts to 67 percent of the
student body. Also, more students
participated in the vice-presidential
elections than in the presidential and
secretarial elections.

The question of who next year’s EC
Secretary will be lies in today’s elec-
tion. Although the winners of the elec-
tion on Monday needed a majority of
the vote to win, whoever has a plura-
lity of the vote between Parker and Yu
will be declared elected.

Because the results were so close
between the two candidates, the elec-
tion will rest on the support of the
voters who previously voted for
Grove.

 

Students vote in Monday’s election.

 

 

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tam Phi

Mock Convention still needs 400-500 delegates to fill their slate

‘

 

By Christie Champlin

" Staff Reporter

 

Although W&L’s Mock Convention
is only two weeks away, 400-500 stu-
dent delegates are still needed. There
are only 1200 delegates registered out
of the 1600-1700 that are required,
according to Brad Shaw, the public re-
lations chairman of the convention.

Programs are in the works to recruit
students from the local high schools

’ and area women’s colleges in order to

'

i

4

’

‘

‘

t

, By Marie Durine

» fairs.

fill the deficit of delegates. Shaw said

Soviets

to study
at W&L

 

Co-Editor

 

Three Soviet students will attend
W&L during the 1988-89 academic
year as part of an academic exchange
program between the U.S. and the
Soviet Union, according to John W.
Elrod, vice president for academic af-

In exchange, up to three W&L stu-
dents may travel to the U.S.S.R. to
study at one of 15 universities for the
1989-90 academic year, said Elrod.

‘This is a historic opportunity. It is
the very first time that undergraduates
in the United States and the Soviet
Union have studied in these countries
this way,”’ said John.

‘It will give undergraduates the op-
portunity to learn the languages, the
culture, and the histories of each oth-
er’s countries,’’ said John, ‘‘The hope
is that this will grow and have a posi-
tive impact on the relationship be-
tween the United States and the Soviet
Union.”

While at W&L, the soviet students
will be free to study whatever subjects
they want, said Vladimir V. Yarygin,

he hoped local high schools can pro-

vide a couple hundred delegates, if

needed.

Shaw is working with reference li-
brarian Peggy Hays to contact the jun-
ior and senior classes of the local high
schools. This year some of the senior
classes will be on trips, so a larger
amount of support is needed from jun-
ior classes. Students from Parry
McCluer Middle School will be used
as messengers for the convention.
Approximately 50 to 60 students from
area high schools were involved in the

last Mock Convention.

Convention members have been go-
ing down the road to area women’s
colleges to solicit their participation in
the convention. The registration form
has been published in all of their re-
spective newspapers, and sign-ups
have been held during lunches. Shaw
thinks the off-campus recruitment
programs are more organized this
year due to the work of Hays.

Even with the heavy recruitment
from other sources, ‘‘the main pref-
erence is for W&L students,”” said
Shaw, adding ‘‘if we could fill the

 

age

- ,

 

pel,

3

   

Professor Jarrad (r) shows his lab to Viadmir N. Yarygin.

rector of Moscow Second Medical In-
stitute, during a press conference with
Elrod in Northen Auditorium on
March 4.

Soviet students will consult with
their advisors on what subjects to take
in order to continue progress in their
education, said Yarygin.

“*T think the main point is the quality
of the education,”’ said Yarygin.

Yarygin said that the students will

live with American students and will
also be allowed to travel freely
throughout the U.S.

The program, which was proposed
by the U.S., is expected to have
‘highly positive results,’* said Yary-
gin.

Among the critieria for selection of
Soviet students to come to the U.S.
are completion of the most of their

Paxton’s lecture on ‘Frogs and Yanks’
highlights 1988 Phi Beta Kappa induction

 

By Jennifer Bandrowski
Staff Reporter

 

On Monday the Gamma of Virginia
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its an-
nual convocation ceremony in Lee
Chapel.

The ceremony was conducted by
Phi Beta Kappa President Robert W.
McAhren and Treasurer J.B. Goehr-
ing.

Following the announcement of the
new members, guest speaker Robert
O. Paxton, class of 1954, delivered an
address entitled *‘Frogs and Yanks:
French and American Stereotypes of
Each Other.”’

After graduating from W&L, Pax-
ton studied at Oxford University as a
Rhodes Scholar, and earned his Ph.D.
from Harvard University in 1963. He
is currently Professor of History at

‘ Columbia University, where he has
_ been a member of the faculty since

1969. He is the author of three books:
’ Parades and Politics at Vichy, Old

_ Guard and New Order, and Vichy

France and the Jews.
‘‘Group stereotypes are I suppose

, older than language,” he said, refer-

ring to Virgil’s /iad and Greece and
’ Troy’s stereotypes of one another.
He spoke of the history of French

and American stereotypes from the
time of Thomas Jefferson, when
Americans were idealized by some
Frenchmen as ‘‘noble frontiersmen.”’
Thomas Jefferson advised a friend
against sending his child to Europe,
because he would learn of ‘‘volup-
tuary dress and infidelity to the mar-
riage bed.”’

Paxton spoke of Chateaubriand’s
journey to the U.S. in 1791 under the
pretext of looking for a Northwest
Passage, ‘‘when he was really looking
for material for a novel.”’

_ Chateaubriand idealized the noble
savage but found that ‘turban Ameri-
cans talked only of money,’’ Paxton
said.

Paxton remarked on French opinion
of the 1830s ‘‘camp meetings”’ in the
U.S., which ensured French opinion
that ‘‘the god of the American Puritan
equaled the dollar.””

By the 1870s, each country had so
stereotyped the other’s cuisine that
“‘both countries were appalled by
what the other ate,’ Paxton said. But
some of these **...old stereotypes have
made complete reversals,’’ he added.

After the First World War,
‘*...many stereotypes were shaped
when the young soldiers first saw
Paris,’ Paxton said. He described the
Folie Bergere as actually a group of

‘British chorus girls dancing before
an audience of German, American,
and Japanese businessmen. ”’

Paxton remarked that while attend-
ing a dinner party in France he had
been asked, ‘‘Is there anything other
than the dollar that holds the United
States together?”’

He concluded his speech by refer-
ring to “‘the cleverest satire of
national stereotypes,’’ Montesquieu’s
Lettres Persanes, in which the author
concluded, ‘‘Men should stay where
they are.”’

In addition to announcing the new
members of Phi Beta Kappa, two
awards were presented. The Phi Beta
Kappa Sophomore Award was presen-
ted to Damon Vincent Fensterman,
the sophomore with the highest grade
point average for his first four semes-
ters of work completed at W&L. The
Edward Pinney Prize was awarded to
senior Mark L. Farley

Eighteen seniors, fourteen juniors,
and two members of the class of 1987
were elected into the fraternity. Each
member of the junior class has a grade
point average of 3.9 or above

The newly elected members are:
Michael Patrick Aarstol, Dana Su
zanna Anstine, Todd Stuart Barton,

See Paxton, page 4

convention with all W&L students, we
would.”’

He views the convention as some-
thing in which everyone can become
involved. In order to reserve a posi-
tion on a state delegation students
should fill out the registration form
printed in this issue. Efforts will be
made to place students on the dele-
gation of the state of their preference
when possible. Some of the larger
states are still in need of delegates due
to the size of their delegations.

Completion of the form is an as-

 
   
 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

major courses, language proficiency,
and a high level of interest in the pro-
gram, Yarygin.

According to Elrod, the selection
process for W&L students ‘‘has yet to
be worked out.’’ However, Elrod said
that two main requirements have been
established: students must travel to the

(_]See Soviet, page 4

sured spot as a delegate. The form can
be turned in any time until the conven-
tion, preferably by Friday, March 18.
Delegate packets can be obtained from
the registration booth at the conven-
tion after payment of the $10 fee.

Shaw encourages student participa-
tion because this convention is ‘‘the
only place where students can partici-
pate in one, as opposed to watching on
television.’ The convention enables
students to get ‘‘first-hand experience
on the exact procedures and all that
goes into selecting a party’s candi-
date,’’ according to Shaw.

The Mock Convention has correctly
predicted the presidential nominee 13
times in 18 attempts since its begin
ning in 1908 after a speech by William
Jennings Bryan, and has only been in
correct once since 1948.

Student delegates can be involved in
many aspects of the convention. The
convention provides a chance to
“work with peers and people you
probably know pretty well, which is
fun,’* said Shaw, adding that it is also
an opportunity ‘‘to re-enact the role of
a delegate in a convention mirrored in
the accuracy of the convention itself. ”’

Professor speaks on

 

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

Samir Saliba, chairman of the pol-
itical science department at Emory
and Henry University, delivered a lec-
ture here on Monday entitled *‘Radi-
cal Islam and the Secular City.’’

Saliba, a native of Lebanon, spoke
on the topic of religion and the need to
appreciate it in dealing with the Third
World, especially the Middle East and
the world of Islam.

According Saliba the world is in a
post-modern era, searching for a new
theology and a new political system .

Saliba said history can be viewed as
a bi-polar struggle between two op-
posing forces he called the ‘‘God
view’’ and the ‘‘world-view.””

The ‘‘God view’’ asserts he supre-
macy of God over man and the supre-
macy of God’s law.

The ‘‘world view’’ asserts the supe-
riority of man and the nation-state
over the world.

According to Saliba, when the
nation-state declines in power, reli-
gion has always gained power at the
expense of the nation-state.

Saliba said modern internationalism
has eroded the nation state’s 400-year
old domination of power. Religion, he
said, has moved in to take the lost

modern religious revival

power. An event Saliba said political
scientists call ‘‘filling a power vac-
uum.

Saliba cited the Iranian revolution,
the rise of the: Moral Majority, lib
eration theology, and religious revival
in Latin America as evidence that the
rise of religion is a worldwide pheno
menon, not an occurrence limited to
the Islamic world.

The religious revival is especially
important in the Islamic world, he
said, because the idea of a nation-state
is a Western idea, not an Islamic one.

The Islamic world used a system of
caliphates, in which the local ruler
was the ‘‘defender of the faith.’’ The
system tied together the ‘‘God-view”’
and the ‘‘world-view’’ whereas the
Western world separated the two.

Both the major Islamic groups, the
Sunni majority group and the Shiite
minority, favor the de-Westernization
of Islam and a return to the fundamen-
tals, although not necessarily a strict,
dogmatic approach.

The tenets of the world-view are es-
pecially repugnant to Moslems, he
said, because Moslems believe in the
supremacy of God over man and the
need for God’s law as an anchor for
behavior.

Moslems, he said, eschew the mu-
table law of man for the unchanging
law of God.

 

 

 

Robert Paxton speaks in Lee Chapel.

soa EMCO SeMnh Te

 

By Perry Haves

the Ring-tum Phi
 

 

 

eww ©
a ee
+2 .

fees

OPINION

Outside view

The following column, by Roanoke Times & World News Editor-
ial Page Editor Gene Owens, appeared in last Sunday's Times and
World News. It is reprinted by permission.

 

Brothers and sisters of the Southland, white folks and blacks,
come let us reason together. The theme of national reconcilation for
the Fancy Dress ball at Washington and Lee University is not born
of racism. It is born of a historical perspective that flows from only
one side of the dual culture that inhabits our region. Blame the lim-
ited perspective. We must stop slapping racist labels on motives that
may not be racist at all.

At Washington and Lee, black students vowed to boycott the an-
nual Fancy Dress ball because of its theme: the reconciliation of
North and South after the Civil War. The black students contend
that this reconciliation took place at the expense of black people.

They vowed to pursue the boycott even through the Student Acti-
vities Board, which planned the ball, agreed that:

®No Confederate flags would be displayed.

©No Southern plantation would be depicted in the decorations.

*Students would be discouraged from wearing blue or gray uni-
forms to the ball.

A white person, without any conscious racial bias, might ask in
bewilderment: How can blacks possibly be offended by a recon-
ciliation theme? How can one enroll in an institution called Wash-
ington and Lee and not expect many student events to follow themes
relating to the Civil War and is aftermath? And how can you separ-
ate the heritage from its symbols: the Confederate flag, the South
ern plantation house, the military uniforms of the era.

W&L faces an unusual dilemma in making black students wel-
come and comfortable on campus. It is named after two secular
saints of the white South, one of whom now sleeps in the hollowed
campus soil. Washington was a lifelong slave-owner. Lee led the
army that fought for the independence of slave-owning states.

But Washington also played a major role in establishing this con-
tinent as a bastion for democracy. And Lee must be reckoned as a
man of honor who lived with an incredibly difficult decision of
conscience, struck by it nobly, and endured defeat with dignity and
without rancor. One can admire the man without endorsing the
cause for which he fought, and without being racist.

But the tradition of Robert E. Lee is not the only tradition woven
into the intricately beautiful but tragically flawed fabric of white
Southern society. For every Lee there is a Bull Conner; for every
Washington a Gene Talmadge; for every Jefferson a George Wal-
lace.

The Confederate flag, lowered nobly at Appomattox, was raised
ingloriously at Oxford, Miss., and at dozens of other Southern sites
where bigotry rose to defy racial justice. If white Southerners see it
as the banner of a noble army, under which their forefathers fought
and died, black Southerners see it as the emblem of white supre-
macy, under which their forefathers were shipped and lynched.

I have lived long enough to know that attitudes have changed.
While racism is not dead, it no longer is the ruling passion of the
white South. Most white Southerners, I believe, have no particular
ill will toward blacks.

But there are cultural barriers between many whites and their
black neighbors. Many blacks, legally free to enter the white
middle-class culture, are uncomfortable in its strange surroundings.
Many whites feel the same discomfort when they find themselves in
a black cultural environment. It isn’t mutual hostility, but an unea-
siness with the unfamiliar.

Those barriers can be eroded over time, but it will take conscious
effort—and consciousness-raising—on both sides.

The W&L Student Activities Board needed a black member to
provide the other Southern perspective. It has no black member.

The board’s officers are chosen by the popularly elected Student
Executive Committee. The officers in turn select the other student
members. I’m willing to believe that the W&L students did what
their predecessors did long before blacks came to campus: They
picked the board members on the basis of popularity, friendships,
and name recognition. With only 30 blacks in a student body of
1,800—and with the cultural separation that occurs even on small
campuses—the system was almost sure to produce on all-white
board. The small black voice was not shouted down; it just wasn’t
heard until it cried in pain.

White Southerners should keep a sensitive ear tuned to that black
voice. But black Southerners should be prepared to show us whites
a degree of tolerance, too. The Confederacy stood for other things
besides slavery, and not all of them were intrinsically evil. Not
every Southern mansion harbored the personification of evil. One
such mansion harbored Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration
of Independence. Another harbored James Madison, father of our -
constitutional system of checks and balances. Out of another came
George Mason, father of the Bill of Rights, who was an early oppo-
nent of slavery.

The Confederate battle flag has been co-opted by evil. But it
might help to remember that the army that fought under it was led
by a men who, long before the Civil War, had freed the slaves he
inherited.

While black Southerners struggle to discover and preserve the
noble features of their heritage, they should recognize the white
Southerner’s desire to preserve the positive features of his own.
This is not racism, but a natural reverence for the cultural soil from
which we sprang and for the people who bequeathed us their genes.
Let us understand and be tolerant.

ea *
e Ring-tum Phi
NEW STAFF
ee Perera ete eh rr re Marie Dunne
David Emrich
Ne@We BGMOE oc cccctedacvocoesvedgertssecceceeescesscceseecetvedes Peter Boatner
Amnen iets NOE 555s cocci c asec ss ccnedeeees.s1csustci es Chris Munsey
| SOP UTIYYT Pe rer er ier rs er ee Mike Shady
Brtevea Mamet MAN iio is cede ccrvccsccscccetccsavececesciseebinpes Michael Tuggie
Photography BOGOR. 5 v.65 cisic ces ce ccckesrescsrcveesscccssessessuseees Perry Hayes
OPINION PAGE STAFF
Editorial Page EditOr...........ccccceesessessnsceeeserscesenseeeetenserersecsestsseseeeeesereeeeeeee COR Bagg
Cardmemlet ..cccsssecsosertocsesssrcsocceonccsneissediessescsesquenocsenqeseconenenssocessveccsaseosssesbied Stephen Ingram
BUSINESS STAFF
Cerne NER ONG 654i 6 80s a ne on ee ee Rhona Hughes
Jason Faust
Advertising Manager........ (eee eiee everest Christie Champlin
OOM RN 6 ics bib aes ei eddhiiss Eddie Klank

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1988

We See S Cokers of the Mock
Comentiom would Ke to thaaK
our dele oube ion LOmiad,

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

Thompson inaugurates Phi dating service

To Mr. Crabill:

For the last two weeks I have spoken only as the
MSA president, and I have not in any way reflec-
ted my personal thoughts. Mr. Crabill, I am sorry
I do not recall ever talking with you on a personal
level; therefore, I cannot possibly imagine how
you logically concluded that I was prejudiced.

I am not quite sure toward which race you ac-
cuse me of being prejudiced, but in trying to re-
duce the cloth for my hoop skirt and in trying to
become better acquainted with my date for the Old
South Ball, I would like to tell you a few things
about myself.

1, Freshman year I lived in a single.room, so
maybe I show I am prejudiced toward people of
all races who are willing to share a room.

2. Sophomore year I shared a house with three
white girls. Here again, I must admit that I may
how shown a prejudice against people of any race
who own a home and are not willing to have a
party every weekend. (Get off None-ery!)

3. This year I live with a Japanese girl and a
white girl. I do not think that they consider me to
be prejudiced, except toward those people of all
races who leave hair in the bottom of the bath tub.

4. So, finally, maybe I am prejudiced toward
blacks. Imagine the irony of those people electing
me as their president.

I would also like for you to know that I have no
preconceived negative notion about your frater-
nity, as I know several brothers there, and I do re-
spect them. I would not generally want to go to a
party such as this, but your offer is far too gener-
ous. Also, I have a new-found respect for you, be-
ing that the last time a brother of your fraternity
took a black girl on a date there was a ‘‘disturban-
ce’’, and that brother and several other members
deactivated.

I trust you are a gentleman and will assure me a
violence-free night. And I will do the same when
you escort me to the NAACP Spring Ball.

Thanks again,

Rosalyn D. Thompson

P.S. Thank you for starting the first Ring-tum Phi

Dating Service and choosing me as your first date.

By the way, my friend Robin wants to come to the
Ball too; could you find a date for her?

Webb wants reconciliation

To the Editor:

It is my sincere hope that the recent controversy
surrounding Fancy Dress has made us more aware
of one another, and imparted an understanding
which will help us to grow together in the future.
Beyond the impassioned rhetoric on both sides,

‘there is a greater lesson to be learned from all of

this. What price must we be willing to pay for
people of different backgrounds and cultures to
live together with a minimum of discord? What
price for heterogeneity to flourish? What price
unity?

There is no question that no malicious design or
racial hostility was intended by the members of
the SAB when they chose ‘‘Reconciliation’’ as
this year’s theme, for the theme captures the es-
sence of our common heritage as Americans and
our traditions at Washington and Lee. For the
preservation of the unity of the greatest nation on
earth Reconciliation was a magnanimous endea-
vor with noble intent. In the spirit of Recon-
ciliation, our ancestors rebuilt the union of 38
states, and diffused the hostility which had cul-
minated in the War Between the States, a war
which had pitted America against herself—brother
against brother, friend against friend. While at
first with considerable sacrifice of the pride and
dignity of the South, our forefathers dared to
renew the bonds of our common heritage, and
moved forward to make possible the benefits of
progress we now enjoy in 1988. In this same spirit
of Reconciliation, General Lee came to this uni-
versity to create an institution of learning where
all Americans could pursue the advantages of
higher education.

Nor is there any question that many black
Americans still feel the heartache of a bitter es-
trangement our ancestors of color suffered during
this period of Reconciliation—an alienation which
has abated in intensity, but one which continues to
thrive in many corners of our society today. While
the Union was restored in 1865, such a union was
completed with the neglectful sacrifice of our
black ancestors. Towards union, the promises of
prosperity, forty acres, and a mule were stripped
away from America’s black citizens. Towards
union, Plessy v. Ferguson was upheld, and nu-
merous Jim Crow laws were enacted to restrict the

-mobility. of our fellow black Americans ,and:deny

their inalienable rights as human beings and. citi-
zens of this grand republic. Towards union, we
overlooked the countless Blacks who were subjec-
ted to the hostility and racial violence of lynch
mobs and the emerging Ku Klux Klan. Having
endured the misery of slavery for 250 years,
Blacks accepted their newly granted freedom in an
environment indifferent to their concerns, and one
which refused to accord to them the fullest bless-
ings of this precious gift of American citizenship.
It is no wonder that many black Americans would
look upon this period of Reconciliation with deep
suspicion and consternation? Time has not yet
healed all of the wounds of this disaffection, but
much can be done by people of both races to ex-
pedite the healing process.

We have come a long way together. Yet, de-
spite the sacrifices of many, black and white, to
make good the promises of our forefathers to all
Americans, there are still many who cannot move
into the neighborhoods of their choice, many who
are denied full acceptance as we relate socially
one to another, and many children who cannot
dream to rise to the highest echelons of elective
office or corporate enterprise because of the color
of their skin. The battle has moved beyond the
courtroom chambers and the halls of the legisla-
ture to the individual hearts and minds of every
American. A part of this process is a willingness
to look beyond ourselves, to be cognizant of the
feelings of all others, black or white, man or
woman, and the rest.

In a culturally diverse community we must be
mindful of the differences which exist among us,
but always striving toward unity in purpose. We
will not always agree with one another, and we
must be willing to compromise with an eye
towards the progress of our community, but we
will never act with malice or benign neglect
towards one another. Mutual courtesy, respect,
and understanding are the price we must be will-
ing to pay for a heterogenous environment to
flourish and prosper. This is the challenge of our
little experiment in democracy: that we choose
freely to judge one another as individuals, not be-
cause the law or world opinion says we should do
it, but because we understand that we share a
common bond.

Let us stand together, and take this opportunity
in 1988 to effect a true Reconciliation. Let us
work together to bring about a more perfect union
here at Washington and Lee. Let us pray together
for a day when the sins of the past can be forgi-
ven, and reason shall triumph over passion and
ignorance, so we can celebrate together those
things we share in common. Perhaps I am a
dreamer and the greatest fool on earth, but I be-
lieve we will make it happen one day. I truly be-
lieve.

Sincerely,
Michael D. Webb

Student defends O’Brien

To the Editors:

It is truly unfortunate that the theme of Fancy
Dress was controversial for the second consecu-
tive year. However, the dissatisfaction of a few
individuals does not give them the right to person-
ally attack Mr. Tom O’Brien or the university.

Mr. O’Brien (and the rest of the SAB) deserves

nothing but praise for the time and energy he de-
voted to this year’s ball. He does not deserve to be
personally attacked as having a ‘‘deranged child-
hood’’ as Mr. Cobb did in his clever, but cowar-
dly, column last week. I know of no evidence that
Mr. O’Brien was insane, unbalanced, demented,
or any of the other symptoms for ‘‘deranged’’ in
his childhood. Perhaps Mr. Cobb should support
this allegation or issue an apology to Mr. O’Brien
for this vicious attack on his character. If Mr.
Cobb has a personal grudge against Mr. O’Brien
he should at least have the courage to claim the
words or identify the speaker, that he quoted. Ad-

«, (ditionally, Mr. .Cobb should retract his erroneous

assertion that Mr. O’Brien spent Fancy Dress
funds without proper authorization (FD is self-
financing and, as such, requires no authorization).

In addition to implying that Mr. O’Brien is a ra-
cist, Miss Thompson of the MSA also accused
Washington and Lee of being ‘‘the most racist”’
school in the nation. This accusation is utterly ri-
diculous and hardly deserves a_ response.
Nevertheless, the facts are that W&L has a full-
time Dean for Minority Affairs, has established a
residence and social facility for MSA members,
has actively sought to attract black faculty mem-
bers through an innovative program, and has elec-
ted a black student as Secretary of the Executive
Committee. In making this scathing allegation and
attracting media attention, Miss Thompson has
damaged the reputation of W&L and hampered
the administration’s efforts to attract more minor-
ity students and faculty members. Unfortunately,
it appears that Miss Thompson put her desire to at-
tract attention ahead of any consideration of the
welfare of minority students at W&L.

In closing, Fancy Dress is a social activity, and
those who choose to make it a political event are
completely missing the point of having student
social functions. There are several organizations
on campus in which a person can make a political
statement, but the SAB is not an appropriate
forum for making such statements. Isn’t it nice to
leave politics out of Fancy Dress and have a good
time at a social event with other students? I sin-
cerely hope that Fancy Dress will continue to be
student run and that those who seek to misuse it
for political purposes will not be allowed to erode
student autonomy or needlessly censor the majori-
ty.

Eugene L. Stephenson, ’88

Writer asks understanding

To the Editor:

I read with disbelief the comments written by
students such as Alford and Schmidt in last week’s
Phi. The comments were saturated with sarcasm,
insensitivity, and tones of bitterness. I am dis-
mayed that such seemingly intelligent students
such as themselves cannot understand why we
(MSA) boycotted and why we feel so strongly
about the ‘‘Reconciliation’’ theme. It is not ‘‘Re-
conciliation,’ the word that we oppose. We all,
however, must face the truth and be honest with
ourselves about the issue at hand. During the time
when the North and South were supposedly rec-
onciling their differences, blacks were being lyn-
ched on a daily basis and there was more racial
violence than I care to think about. There was an
overwhelming amount of hatred and resentment
toward blacks and this is why we are opposed to
the theme.

As far as I'm concerned the choosing of this
theme as even a possibility showed a lack of con-
cern about its possible ramifications and effects on
minorities, not to mention an utter lack of creative
ability on the part of the SAB members who chose
it. I must also mention with disgust that anyone
desiring to fashion confederate uniforms shows a
considerable amount of not only indiscretion but
an uncaring attitude toward what the uniform
symbolizes—southern aggression instead of

(JSee LETTERS, page 3

,

 

 
NEWS/OPINION

‘

r

(Continued from page 2

peace; division instead of unity, and above all,
slavery instead of freedom.

We did not expect support from the university
when we decided to boycott. We did expect
though, that our decision to do so would be re-
spected, if not more, by the student body. We did
what we believed was right and it’s a pity that
some call us ‘‘radical’’ or ‘‘disgusting’’ because
of it.
what we did and will resent us for our decision but
until you have lived inside a skin-color that has
been such a liability for some of us and have en-
dured hatred from others who think they deserve
better because of their hair texture, or social class,
then I suggest you take a long look at yourself and
your values and leave others’ alone.

Roschele Mack, ’91

Evangelist explains views

To the Editor:

I would like to take this opportunity to respond
to Mr. Sbar’s ‘‘My View’’ column of last week’s
Phi. There are several common misconceptions
concerning evangelists and the Gospel they pro-
claim which I believe merit an explanation.

First, Mr. Sbar and many others seem to feel
that evangelists and evangelical Christians believe
they are ‘‘always right.’ Any Christian who is
honest will point out to you that we are not always
right—as everyone, we fail at times. But we stand
on the Living God, who is without failure. Mr.
Sbar also contends that ‘Evangelists talk to God
whenever they feel like it.’ Anyone who is right
with God can do that. Try it and see.

Mr. Sbar is correct in pointing out that the main
idea of Josh McDowell’s presentation was that
God’s laws against sex outside of marriage is for
our protection. One only needs to pick up a news-

 

LETTERS

paper or hear a news broadcast to see the grim
effects of AIDS, herpes, and other sexually
transmitted diseases on this world. 1.5 million ba-
bies are murdered in the womb each year in this
country, often the children of unmarried young
people. The incredible divorce rate and its effects
on American society and the grief wrought by
promiscuous sex are just a few of the ills imposed
on society by sexual practice outside the paramet-
ers established by God.

The entire tone of the article by Mr. Sbar sug-
gested that Josh was promoting moral reformation
as a way to avoid hell. Josh actually presented the
Biblical perspective that only through a personal
relationship with Christ does one inherit eternal
life—not by observing a set of laws, as Mr. Sbar
implies and millions believe. Christians commit
sin—even sexual sin—but I would urge you to
read Romans 10:9-13 and see how the sin of a
Christian is paid for.

Finally, I do not understand the hostility of Mr.
Sbar and many others toward evangelical Chris-
tians. I would encourage each of you to find an
evangelical or a fundamentalist and let us person-
ally explain the many prevalent misconceptions
concerning our beliefs. We are not puritanical
censors, out to judge or damn sinners. We are
simply striving, upon our Lord’s command of
Matthew 28: 19-20, to tell sinners that God wants
to help them just as they are. We work to present
the Gospel, not force it upon anyone. Contrary to
popular opinion, the Christian does this out of
love, not of hate. Josh himself said in his talk that
he would not try to shove Christ down anyone’s
throat: the final decision to follow God or not to
would be up to each individual. Josh did not claim
to be perfect, and neither did Mr. Sbar. I certainly
do not believe I am perfect, and I did not write this
response to be argumentative or contentious but
only to present the truth—not my truth, but God’s.
Do not take my word or Josh’s, but instead try
God’s way for yourself. I believe you will not re-
gret your decision to do so.

R. Brent Cook, 90

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1988

AIDS symposium
set for next week

Student’s disk dumped

To the Editor:

Recently, I had the unfortunate experience of
losing my computer disk, upon which were stored
all of my papers for the 87-88 academic year. I
must confess I did not have the foresight to store
everything on a back-up disk; I should have been
more careful with such important papers. Yet my
frustration at this experience was surpassed by my
dismay for what was to come. Naturally, I began a
mad search for the missing disk: I looked in the
computer rooms, throughout the library stacks,
and in my classrooms, and waded through the
piles of lost and found items at the library’s circu-
lation desk.

Finally when all my efforts had failed, I consul-
ted a member of the computer center staff. She in-
formed me that disks left in the computer rooms
are collected, and if they are not claimed within a
week, are recycled. One student aid confessed to
me that disks left in the library computer rooms
are simplv thrown away.

If a pair of diamond earrings had been lost at the
Fancy Dress Ball, would it be thrown away if its
owner had not claimed it in a week? Or would the
dining hall staff cart all of its lost and found items
off to Goodwill after only seven days? Students
computer disks hold filing cabinets full of irre-
placeable information and it seems to me that such
valuable items should be kept for a minimum of
one term if not for the remainder of the school
year.

I call these indiscretions to the attention of the
W&L community so that everyone takes the
necessary precautions to ensure the safety of valu-
able papers. In the future I hope the computer
center will show more sensitivity...or at least
more sense.

Mike McClung
Class of 1989

 

From Staff Reports

 

 

 

 

; Stewart to be honored at music festival

 

From Staff Reports

 

W&L will present a Festival of New
American Music Wednesday and
Thursday, March 16 and 17, to honor
Robert Stewart, professor of music,
who will be retiring in June.

The highlight of the festival will be
concerts in Lee Chapel at 8 p.m.
Wednesday and 8:30 p.m. Thursday,
featuring the Annapolis Brass Quintet,
the Theater Chamber Players of Ken-
nedy enter, and the Stradivari String
Quartet. The groups will perform
works by Stewart and composers Jean
Eichelberger Ivey and Donald Erb,
who will be guests for the festival.

Also included in the festival will be
Composers’ and: Performers’ Forums
in the Northern Auditorium of the
University Library.

All forums and concerts are open to
the public. Receptions at the W&L
Alumni House honoring the com-
posers and performers will follow
each concert.

Gordon Spice, professor of music at
W&L and organizer of tle Festival of
New American Music, says the fes-
tival was planned primarily ‘‘to honor
Rob Stewart, an active composer of
new American music, upon his re-
tirement from Washington and Lee.”’
In addition to featuring works by Ste-
wart, says Spice, ‘‘the festival will be
an event in which composers, perfor-
mers and their audiences will be
brought together in dialogue. ”’

The concert on Wednesday evening
will include the Overture to Dr. Faus-
tus (1963), Quartet No. 1, and Quintet
No. 3 (1976) by Stewart, Aldebaran

Interviews by
Cathy Boardman

by Ivey, and Quintet (1976) by Erb.
The program on Thursday evening
will feature the world premier per-
formance of Stewart’s Quartet No. 5
(1988), and other works by Stewart,
Ivey, and Erb.

After a welcoming address by W&L
President John D. Wilson on Wednes-
day morning, the guest composers
will discuss ‘‘The Role of the Com-
poser Today: Where to from Here?’’
The Composers’ Forum will be from

. 10:30 a.m: until noon. At 2 p.m., the

guest performers will discuss ‘‘Pre-
paration for Performance.’’ The com-
posers and performers will join in a
forum on Thursday at 2 p.m. to talk
about ‘‘New Sounds from Traditional
Instruments; How Far Do We Go?”’

The visit of the two guest com-
posers is sponsored by a grant from
MEET THE COMPOSERS of the
Composer’s Performance Fund.

Ivey is a graduate of Trinity Col-
lege, Peabody Conservatory, the
Eastman School of Music and the
University of Toronto. She is on the
composition faculty of Peabody Con-
servatory, the music school of the
Johns Hopkins University. She has
composed works in every medium and
is particularly fond of writing music
for the voice. Her music has been per-
formed by leading orchestras, ensem-
bles, and soloists, and recorded on
CRI, Folkways, and Grenadilla
labels.

Erb has covered a broad range of
music, from traditional to jazz to elec-
tronic sounds, in his career as perfor-
mer and composer. He received de-
grees from Kent State University, The
Cleveland Institute of Music and In-

 

 

 

 

Mike Temple—Junior ‘‘Defin-
itely yes. It’s unevenly balanced.
People get off things for the excuse
of being drunk.”’

 

 

File Photo

Robert Stewart

diana University. He served as a
trumpet player and arranger for dance
bands at the end of the big band era.
Erb is currently professor of composi-
tion at The Cleveland Institute of Mu-
sic.

Stewart joined the W&L faculty in
1954. He is a member of the Ameri-
can Composers Alliance, the Ameri-
can Music Center, the Southeastern
Composer’s League, and the Virginia
Humanities Conference. Most of his
compositions are works for chamber

groups and solo instruments.

Among Stewart’s numerous awards
and honors are the MacDowell Co-
lony Fellowship and ‘‘Special Recog-
nition’’ at the first International Sym-
posium of Contemporary Music for
Brass Instruments by the Institute for
Advanced Musical Studies in Mon-
treux, Switzerland.

Stewart holds three Master of Music
degrees, one each in music education,
violin, and composition, from the
American Conservatory in Chicago.

 

TALKBACK

Three of the nation’s foremost
AIDS spokesmen will discuss the
disease and its spread during a two
day symposium at W&L, March 18
and 19.

**The AIDS Crisis: Three Perspec-
tives,’ a symposium sponsored by
W&L’s Telford Lecture Series, is free
and open to the public.

The symposium will begin with an
address by Dr. Richard D. Keeling,
director of student health at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. Keeling will speak
on ‘‘AIDS and Other Sexually Trans-
mitted Diseases’ at 7:30 p.m., Fri-
day, March 18 in Lee Chapel.

The sessions will resume at 10
a.m., Saturday, March 19 in Lee
Chapel with an address by Dr. Mer-
vyn F. Silverman, a 1960 graduate of
W&L, and president of the American
Foundation for AIDS Research and
director of the Robert Wood John
Foundation AIDS Health Services
Program in San Francisco. Silverman
will speak about ‘*Public Health Po-
licy on AIDS.”

At 11:30 a.m., Dr. Robert T.
Schooley, a 1970 graduate of W&L
and AIDS researcher for the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital and the
Harvard Medical School, will bring
the sessions to a close. Schooley’s to-
pic will be ‘‘Research Progress on
AIDS.”

All three speakers have been in-
volved in AIDS research, education,
and policy issues since the earliest
days of the disease’s identification and
have made presentations throughout
the country.

A graduate of the University of Vir-
ginia, Keeling received his M.D. de-
gree from the Tufts University Schoo!
of Medicine. He is president-elect of
the American College Health Associa-
tion and has served as an AIDS con-
sultant to more than 40 public and pri-
vate college and universities across
the country.

Keeling is the author of many arti-
cles on AIDS. He serves as chair of
the Task Force on AIDS for the Amer-
ican College Health Association, and
is a member of the ad hoc advisory
committee on AIDS for the United
States Public Health Service and the

» :executive board of the National AIDS

Network.
A 1960 graduate of W&L, Silver-

 

man received his M.D. from Tulane
University and his masters degree in
public health from the Harvard School
of Public Health. He served as a phy
sician in Thailand for the Peace Corps
and was later named regional medical
director for the Peace Corps. He was
special assistant to the commissioner
and director of consumer affairs for
the Federal Drug Administration and
director of Health for Wichita-
Sedgwick Co., Kan. from 1972 to
1977.

From 1977 to 1985 he served as di
rector of health for the city and county
of San Francisco. Since 1985 Silver-
man has been president of the Mervyn
S. Silverman Foundation, Inc., a
health care consulting firm. He is
president of the American Foundation
for AIDS Research, the only privately
funded AIDS research organization in
the country, and is a director of the
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s
IDS Health Services Program. Sil-
verman is on the faculty of the Uni-
versity of California School of Med-
icine in San Francisco, the University
of Hawaii School of Health Policy,
and the Tulane School of Medicine
and Tropical Diseases.

A 1970 graduate of W&L, Schooley
received his M.D. from Johns Hop-
kins University. Upon graduation
from Johns Hopkins, Schooley joined
the staff at the National Institutes of
Health where he worked in the infec-
tious disease program in the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Disease.

Schooley has been the recipient of
several grant for AIDS research from
the National Institutes of Health. He
conducted one of 12 studies nation-
wide on azidothymidine (AZT), a
drug known for its properties that
keep the AIDS virus from growing in
the body. In addition to his research
activities, Schooley has treated AIDS
patients as a clinician at Massachusetts
General.

The Telford Lecture Series was es-
tablished through the generosity of
Robert Lee Telford of Naples, Fla., a
member of W&L’s class of 1922 and
the former chair of the board of
Mason and Hanger-Silas Mason Co.
Inc. The program is designed to bring
to the W&L campus scholars of
national reputation, particularly those
from the fields of physical and life
sciences, social sciences, business,
and the humanities.

Debaters take England

From Staff Reports

 

Two members of the W&L debate
team, Donald DeFabio of Bethesda,
Md., and Damon Fensterman of
Lynchburg, Va., recently returned
from a victorious forensic tour of
Great Britain. The two sophomores
continued a three-year winning streak
for the W&L team in Great Britain.

At University College in London,
before the oldest debating society in
Great Britain, the two W&L debaters
opposed the motion, ‘‘This House be-
lieves that American society is debau-
ched.’’ Defending the U.S., DeFabio
contended, ‘‘one could not judge
Americans on the basis of individual
leaders, but that consideration should
be given to the spirit of American cul-
ture.”

Countering charges that American:
were insensitive to the plight of he
poor and homeless, DeFabio ex
plained that the U.S. government wa
aware of the problems, but had yet t
determine the most efficient ways t
alleviate them. In his ‘‘summing-up’
speech, Fensterman told the audienc:
that, ‘‘the spirit of American argu
ment had not been refuted,’’ and ur
ged them to reject the motion.

The W&L team won by a 30-15 div
ision of the house vote.

Travelling on to the University o
Southampton, the W&L debater
faced the motion, *‘This House pret
ers government for the people rathe
than by the people.’’ Although th
W&L debaters were denied any rebut
tal speeches, they lost the debate by

(_|See Debate, page 4

 

RRMA LOE ANE ARLEN IEEE LAELIA OEIC EE,
Photos by

Perry Hayes

 

Should the Honor System be revised?

 

Reid Campbell—Sophomore
**T don’t think it needs revision. It
seems to be working fine.”’

a

~

 

ya

Alan Greeter—Junior ‘‘Yes I
do, but I don’t know what process
should take place. I think the stu-
dents want it to be revised, but we
realize it’s been
‘around for a long time and it will
take a long time for a successful
revision.”

also need to

 

John Packett—Senior ‘‘! think it
should be left alone. It works as it is
and I don’t think there’s anything they
can change that can help it.”’

 

John Catron—Junior ‘‘No, |
like it the way it is.””

»__dlll

Erin Cosby—Junior ‘*Ob-
viously someone felt there was a
think it’s important
Something that’s such an integral
part of our community should be

discussed, *’

need so |

 
a>

a

v<
~
*

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1988

 

-WA&L receives theater grant

a,

ee ee ee ee

 

From Staff Reports

 

W&L has been awarded a $600,000
challenge grant from The Kresge
Foundation of Troy, Mich., toward
construction of the university's Center
for the Performing Arts.

W&L has now received gifts or gift
commitments of $6 million for the $9
million project, which will house all
of the university’s performing arts
programs.

‘“The Kresge Foundation’s chal-
lenge grant constitutes a major stimu-
lus as we move into the final stages of
our fund raising for this important
project,’’ said President John D. Wil-
son. ‘‘We deeply appreciate that The
Kresge Foundation has offered this
help and especially that it has come in
the form of a challenge we can use to

open new doors of commitment."’

The Center for the Performing Arts
will be located diagonally across Nel
son Street from the new Gaines Resi-
dence Hali and will be adjacent to the
old Lexington train station.

The facility will include a 425-seat,
State-of-the-art main theatre that will
be adaptable for dramatic and musical
performances, an experimental
theatre, dressing rooms, office space,
and a main lobby that will also serve
as a gallery for a portion of the univer-
sity’s art collection.

The Kresge challenge grant, an-
nounced in February, was one of 34
grants that the organization made in
1988. The foundation will continue to
make grants throughout the year.
Grants are made toward projects in-
volving construction or renovation of
facilities and the purchase of major
capital equipment or real estate. Most

grant recipients have raised initial
funds toward their respective projects
before requesting assistance from the
Kresge Foundation. Grants are then
made on a challenge basis, requiring
the raising of the remaining funds,
thereby ensuring completion of the
projects.

In 1987, The Kresge Foundation
reviewed 676 proposals and awarded
grants totaling $49,130,000 to 165
charitable organizations in 38 states
and the District of Columbia. Grants
are made to institutions operating in
the areas of higher education, health
care, arts and humanities, social ser-
vice, science and conservation, reli-
gion, and public policy.

The Kresge Foundation is an inde-
pendent, private foundation created by
the personal gifts of Sebastian S. Kre-
sge. It is not affiliated with any cor-
poration or organization.

 

Soviet

| \Continued from page 1

 

U.S.S.R. during their junior year and
they must have third year competency
in the Russian language.

Students may achieve the language
requirement either by entering W&L
with at least one year of study of Rus-
sian, or by taking their first two years
of Russian at W&L during their
freshman and sophomore years and
taking an intensive summer school
program at either UVa or Middlebury
College, which is the equivalent of a
third year, said Elrod.

Each college participating in the
exchange may send as many students
to the U.S.S.R. as it hosts. If no W&L
students meet the requirements for the
exchange, W&L may ‘‘bank unused
spots’’ for years when more students
may eligible, said Elrod.

 

Honors

(JContinued from page 1

 

David Martin Bloodsworth, Jr., Peter
LeMaire Boatner, John David Boller,
Karl Ward Brewer, Glen Porter Brock
Ill, Barbara Ann Byington, Gary Hor-
ine Campbell, Stephen Raster Castle,
James Robert DeMarco, Joseph
Douglas Fisher, Craig Oliva Garneau,
Paulin Christophe Goebels, Eduardo
Gonzalez pier, Courtney Hays Har-
pold, Matthew Tracy Harrington,
Donald John Willard Hatfield, and
Deborah.Ellen Hattes.

Steven F. Kendall, Robert Todd La-

fargue,Jr., Michael James Longshore,

John Daniel Maxwell, Edwin Clyde
McGee, Jr., James Montrose Metca-
Ife, Freeman Schelbach, James Mi-
chael Sloat, John Howell Starks, Jr.,
‘ Rowan Gregory Paxton Taylor, Scott

“ Charles Calhoun Treanor, Kathryn

‘ Lee Tucker, Swen Arthur Voekel, and
* Andrew Warner White.
“Also announced were the new

*. members of the University Scholars

“program: Alison K. Bell, Paige C. Ki-

“lian, Kathleen A. Morrison, George

'.C. Nomikos, H. Todd Pearce, O.
Gray Rand III, and Susan L. Sarver.

 

Meanwhile, W&L is concentrating
on expanding its Russian language de-
partment. W&L submitted a proposal
to the Mellon Foundation requesting a
grant to hire two new faculty mem-
bers, one each in Russian and
Japanese studies. According to Elrod,
the proposal most likely will be accep-
ted.

Yarygin was visiting the U.S. as
part of a six member group of Soviet
academic leaders who took part in the
official signing of the exchange
agreement on March 3 at Middlebury
College in Vermont.

After the press conference, Yarygin
took a tour of W&L.

Yarygin said that this was his sec-
ond visit to the U.S. and his first visit
to rural areas of America. Yarygin
said that some aspects of Rockbridge
County reminded him of Russia.

‘This morning we were driving and
I said to the right side, it looked like
Russia. To the left side, it doesn’t look
like Russia. To the left side, there was
a big store [shopping mall],’’ said
Yarygin, noting that on the right side
there were farms.

 

Debate

(Continued from page 3

respectable 19 to 15 vote.

At Durham University, the duo
again debated the debauchery topic. In
his defense of the U.S., DeFabio
praised American cultural attain-
ments, and drew a round of applause
when he reminded the British au-
dience that the U.S. had given Elvis
Presley to Britain.

To the assertion that the U.S. mis-
treated its black citizens, Fensterman
recounted the progress in civil rights
since 1954, and reminded the British
that ‘‘we inherited the practice of
slavery’’ from them. To the argument
that ‘‘Americans cravenly worship
capitalism over equality,’’ Fenster-
man replied that a country had to pro-
duce goods and services before it
could have equality, citing the case of
the Soviet Union as an example of ‘‘a
society that stresses equality, where
consumers must stand in long lines for
basic necessities.”’

 

Appealing to the audience to apply a
reasonable standard of judgment, the
W&L team won by a voice acclama-
tion.

Halford Ryan, professor of public
speaking at W&L and coach of the de-
bate team, accompanied DeFabio and
Fensterman on their English tour. ‘‘In
preparation against possible British at-
tacks, the team had constructed
briefs,’’ stated Ryan, ‘‘but DeFabio
and Fensterman still had to reply on
impromptu debating skills throughout
the British tour.’’ He coached the
team to avoid engaging in ‘‘British-
bashing,’’ although the English de-
baters ‘‘predictably administered
overdoses of anti-Americanism,”’
Ryan stated.

**By resisting the desire to respond
in kind, the debaters won points by
appealing to the issues in the de-
bates,’’ said Ryan. ‘‘The British au-
diences appreciated the Americans’
not trading insults, their willingness to
admit faults in American society, and
their good-natured adaptations to the
British style of debating.”’

Ray pictures the Bard

 

From Staff Reports

 

George W. Ray, professor of Eng-
lish, will deliver a lecture on Monday,
March 14, in Room 21 of Payne Hall.
The lecture will be at 4:30 p.m. and is
open to the public. A reception will
follow.

Ray will lecture on ‘‘Shakespeare a
Century Ago: Pictorialism on the
London Stage.’’ The lecture is part of
a series, sponsored by W&L’s English
department, which provides an oppor-

Delegates Needed

For

Washington and Lee's
1988 Mock Convention
March 25 & 26, 1988

tunity to learn about research being
done within the department.

Ray has done extensive research in
Shakespearean stage history and has
published books and numerous arti-
cles on Renaissance drama. In 1981,
he was selected to participate in a
National Endowment for the Humani-
ties Institute, ‘‘Shakespeare in Per-
formance,’’ at the Folger Shakespeare
Library in Washington, D.C.

A member of the faculty since 1964,
Ray holds degrees from Wesleyan
University, Colgate University, and
the University of Rochester.

 

Phone

 

  

State Preference

Send form to: Delegate Selection
W&L Mock Convention
Washington and Lee U.
Lexington, VA 24450

 
 

 

 
  
 
 
   

 

 

International

Amnesty International encour-
ages new members to join up and
participate in its letter writing
campaigns. Every letter adds up to
saving lives. ‘The accumulated
feathers will sink the boat.””

Spanish film

The W&L Film Society is
pleased to announce the presen-
tation of What Have I Done to De-
serve This? (Spain, 1984), directed
by Pedro Almodovar.

Showings will be at 8:00 p.m. in
Classroom ‘‘A’’ in Lewis Hall.
There is no charge for admission.
The film is in Spanish, with subti-
tles.

Spanish film makers are recover-
ing from the hangover of the
Franco years, and Pedro Almodo-
var is one of the young directors
leading the pack. What Have I
Done to Deserve This? is a black
comedy, with surrealistic touches,
that has been described as ‘‘a small
masterpiece...in the tradition of
Luis Bunuel.’’ A housewife in con-
temporary Spain is driven to the
edge of sanity by the bizarre beha-
vior of her family and neighbors.

If the winter doldrums have tired
you of the predictable and the
commonplace, then this off-beat
film is for you.

The W&L Film Society invites
you to join us for this presentation,
and we hope you will share our in-
vitation with students and friends.

 

eneral Notes

German opera

Richard Strauss’ Ariadne auf
Naxos will be broadcast live from
the Metropolitan Opera Saturday,
March 12, at 2 p.m. over
WLUR-FM (91.5).

Singing principal roles will be
Jessye Norman as Ariadne, Kath-
leen Battle as Zerbinetta, Tatiana
Troyanos as the Composer, James
King as Bacchus, and Franz Fer-
dinand Nentwig as the Music Mas-

ter.
James Levine will conduct.

Chariots

Ben-Hur (U.S., 1959, dir. Wil-
liam Wyler, stars Charlton Heston,
Stephen Boyd, Jack Hawkins,
based on Lew Wallace’s 1880
novel Ben-Hur, uncut) will run at
7:30 p.m , Friday and Saturday,
March 11 and 12 in Rm. 203 of
Reid Hall. The public is invited.
Using the largest sets in film his-
tory and a budget that reportedly
almost bankrupted MGM, author
Lew Wallace’s own scenario (e.g.
never showing the face of Jesus),
and ambitious special effects (on
65mm film) all contributed to mak-
ing this unequaled film classic.
Sponsored by the Politics Depart-
ment.

Death and...

John **Buck’’ Chapoton, former
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
for Tax Policy will speak on ‘The
Politics of Tax Reform’’ in Room
327 of the Commerce School
Monday, March 21 at 3:00 p.m.

Politics? |

There will be a general meeting
for the North Carolina Delegation
of the Mock Convention on Mon-
day, March 14 at 8:00 p.m. in the
Commerce School, room 221.

Manicure

The evolution and behavior of
Lexington’s banded snails will be
the topic of a lecture by Peter W.
Bergstrom, assistant professor .of
biology, on Monday, March 14.

Bergstrom will speak at 5 p.m.
in Room 305 of Parmly Hall. Re-
freshments will precede the talk at
4:30 p.m., and the public is invited
to attend.

In his lecture, ‘‘General Lee’s
Press-on Snails: Evolution on
Campus,’’ Bergstrom will discuss
his recent research on banded
snails.

Bergstrom, who joined the W&L
faculty in 1982, holds degrees
from Bennington College and the
University of Chicago. i

The lecture is sponsored by the
W&L biology department.

 

 

Ryan edits book on oratory

 

From Staff Reports

 

    
     
     

 
 

Halford Ryan, professor of public
speaking, is the editor of Oratorical
Encounters: Selected Studies and
Sources of Twentieth-Century Politi-
cal Accusations and Apologies, just
published by Greenwood Press.

Leading scholars in the fields of pol-
itical communication and American
public address contributed essays on

Now is the time to make
your choice. Because
every ArtCarved college
ring — from handsome
traditional to contem-
porary styles — is on sale
now! You'll be impressed
with the fine ArtCarved
craftsmanship that's
backed by a Full Lifetime
Warranty. And you'll
appreciate the savings.
Don't miss out!

 

The Quality:
The Craftsmanship.
The Reward You Deserve.

 

« 1987 ArtCarved Class Rings.

 

18 case studies of major exchanges
and debates. Among the case studies
are debates from Sen. LaFollette on
free speech issues in World War I,
Watergate, Iran-Contra hearings, Sen.
John Kennedy and the *‘Catholic ques-
tion,’’ and Geraldine Ferraro’s apo-
logy in the 1984 vice-presidential
race.

Each essay treats the political and
persuasive dimensions of the oratori-
cal exchanges, criticizes the rhetoric,
and concludes with an analysis of who
won the encounter, and bibliographi-

 

ARTO

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

1Gem- 3pm
Time

RVED

University Bookstore |
Place

Deposit Required =

cal information.

In addition to editing the book, |
Ryan contributed essays on Richard
Nixon’s famous ‘‘Checkers’’ speech
in 1952 and on the oratorical exchange .
between King Edward VIII and Prime
Minister Stanley Baldwin in the —
British abdication crisis of 1936. He +
also created a glossary of rhetorical
terms.

Ryan, who received his doctorate at
the University of Illinois, has taught
public speaking and coached the de-
bate team at W&L since 1970.

CLASS RINGS .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Stes aennsil naan. arenamtipeapmmnt iam Spm iim ee, Some

een LP concn

— - ~ .

tte

om

on

m.

ae

SPORTS

 

 

Junior Stuart Geisel prepares to shoot in W&L’s 13-6 win over Randolph-Macon.

Maturity is key to golf success

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

If you want to be successful in the
sport of golf, you have to be able to
handle pressure. For the W&L golf
team, handling pressure will be the
key to a winning season.

‘We put some pressure on oursel-
ves in the past couple of years to score
well,’’ said head coach Buck Leslie,
whose team finished a respectable
11-5-1 last year. ‘I think it has hurt
i.”

Leslie said he is stressing to his
players the importance of relaxing and
just playing the game. He said this can
only be achieved through maturity and
match experience. This year, the Gen-

Baseball team

By Gary McCullough
Staff Reporter

 

 

The W&L baseball team will open
up its regular season this weekend at
home with a three-game series against
the NAIA team of West Virginia
Tech. The first game of the series will
be tomorrow afternoon on Smith Field

at 3:00, with the doubleheader on Sat-!1/:

urday- at’ 1:00. -

The Generals have played five
scrimmage games in their preseason,
including two teams on their February
Break trip to Florida, two games

erals may just have that needed matu-
rity.

Led by senior John Gammage, a
1987 all-Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference performer and all-NCAA Dis-
trict Ill player, W&L has three of its
top players returning. Helping out
Gammage, who finished in a tie for
third place in the ODAC tournament
last year, will be senior Kevin Hunt,
juniors Pete Coleman and Tom Wing-
field and sophomore Ted Fox. The
Generals were somewhat hurt when
senior Chip Gist, one of the leading
scorers for the team last season, de-
cided not to play this year.

‘‘We do have maturity—age-wise
and golf-wise,’’ said Leslie.

The Generals open their season this
weekend at the James Madison Invita-

tional on Friday and Saturday. The
22-team, five-man tournament will
feature some stiff competition and a
challenging course for W&L.

“There will be some good golf
teams there from Divisions I, IT and
IIl,”’ said Leslie. ‘‘The course is
fairly long. If you can get by the first
couple of holes on the front and back
nine in good shape, then you should
be okay.”

Leslie said the team’s preseason
preparations have gone well. The re-
cent weather, which has been excel-
lent, has been an added plus.

After the invitational, the Generals
will travel to Randolph-Macon on
Tuesday to begin their ODAC sched-
ule of play against the Yellow Jackets.

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1988

Lax defeats Macon

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The W&L lacrosse Generals re-
bounded from Saturday’s 24-5 pound-
ing by the University of Virginia to
win their first home game, defeating
Randolph-Macon 13-6 Tuesday after
noon on Wilson Field.

The Generals fell behind early, 3-0,
but scored eight unanswered goals in
the second quarter to put the game out
of reach and give W&L its first win of
the season and a 1-0 record in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

The slow start really wasn’t a sur-
prise. The trouncing by Virginia fol-
lowed a tough pre-season schedule
that really tested the Generals early.

But all that changed against Ran-
dolph-Macon.

After junior midfielder Joe Cac-
camo broke the ice at the 13:39 mark
in the first period, sophomore attack-
man Chris Giblin followed with his
third goal of the season, pulling the

 

 

 

Buck Leslie

has infield and pitching staff returning

against Virginia Military Institute and
one game against a squad from New
York. Although the scrimmages were
not as successful as the team would
have liked to hope, the attitude is very
optimistic for the start of the season.

Head coach Jeff Stickley, in just his
second year, compared the status of
this year’s team at this point in the
season to last year’s team. ‘‘Right
now) iweire probably 4 little bit further
dhéad"than' we were Mst year at this
time,’’ he said.

Although all of the starting jobs are
up for grabs, the infield and the pitch-
ing staff return almost intact.

Women’s tennis ranked No. 14 in poll

 

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

 

The W&L women’s tennis team,
after a promising start in the fall, are
ready to start its spring season.

The Generals, who had a 7-0 fall re-
cord, are ranked No. 14 in the Inter-
collegiate Tennis Coaches’ Associa-
tion Division III national preseason
ranking. However, head coach Wil-
liam Washburn considers it difficult to
predict the team’s performance since
he has found that women’s tennis
teams tend to fluctuate quite a lot from
year to year. W&L has very little ex-
perience as the team has no senior and
only two juniors on its roster.

Instead, the Generals will rely on
the addition of some strong freshmen
players, four of whom, according to
Washburn, ‘‘make up the bulwark of
our top six.’’ In the fall, W&L was led
by freshman Jean Stroman, who
posted a 7-0 singles record playing at
No. 1. She also had a 6-0 doubles re-
cord playing with fellow classmate

Kathy Leake. Stroman is ranked No.
127 in the ITCA preseason rankings.

Freshman Kelly Martone had a 6-1
record playing in the No, 2 spot in the
fall. Leake was 5-1 playing at No. 3,
while sophomore Theresa Southard
was 6-1 playing at No. 4. Freshman
Shawn Wert posted a 5-1 record at the
No. 5 slot and junior Martha Christian
was 3-4 competing at No. 6.

As of now, there are no set positions
for. the spring since the team is in the
midst of challenge matches. Wash-
burn expects that eight or nine of the
twelve women trying out will play in
most of the matches particularly those
against W&L’s traditional Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference rivals.

Washburn is optimistic about the
upcoming season. ‘‘The team, as de-
monstrated in our fall program, seems
to be quite well balanced and en-
thusiastic. We should post a very good
record in the spring,’’ he said.

The Generals open their season at
home against ODAC opponent
Lynchburg on Wednesday.

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

Wendell'’s
Barber Shop

I need your head
for my business!
Open 9-6

The returning infielders are: senior
co-captain Eric Acra, who will play
first when not pitching; junior Harry
Halpert, who hit .329 while playing
shortstop last year; and sophomore
Robert Rimmer, who can play second
or third base.

The ace of the pitching staff should
be ‘“‘iron man’’ Carter Steuart, who,
as a junior in 1987, appeared in 12 of
the General's 22 games. He started 11
times and finished with a respectable
3.55 ERA. He was also one of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference’s hard
luck players. At one point in the
season he pitched a two-hitter and lost

 

2-0, and in another game he lost on an
unearned run with two out in the bot-
tom of the ninth inning.

The outfield positions are still un-
determined. Junior Tom Skeen, who
led the team last year with a .388 bat-
ting average, will move from third
base to the outfield.

The Generals will also have the ad-
ded bonus of first-year law student
Hugh Finkelstein’s return to the dia-
mond. Finkelstein, who led the team
in hitting as a junior undergraduate,
has a year of eligibility remaining and
his bat and intensity will be a welcome
addition to the team.

By Perry Hayes’ The Ring-tum Phi

Senior David McLeod puts away a smash against Radford

Generals to within one.

But the real turning point came less
than a minute into the second period.
Sophomore all-America defenseman
Reid Campbell left the game for a
30-second holding penalty, putting the
Yellow Jackets a man up, and Macon
came down looking to stop the W&L
comeback.

Instead, a quick shot by the Jackets
gave senior Robert Buttarazzi his first
save of the game, and the W&L goa-
lie’s outlet pass to sophomore Chris
Mastrogiovanni broke the Macon
power play and set up senior Robbie
Stanton’s tying goal less than a minute
later.

“It really was a two-goal swing,”’
said Daly. ‘‘Rather than being down
4-2, we're now tied, 3-3, and we de-
finitely have the momentum.’’ And
suddenly, the rout was on.

Just like the Washington Redskins
in Super Bowl XXII, the Generals
seemed unstoppable in the second
quarter. After Stanton’s game-tier be-
gan the period, Giblin scored again,

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The Battling Bishops of Ohio
Wesleyan will bring six returning
starters to Wilson Field Saturday to
face a W&L lacrosse team hoping
to avenge last year’s 17-4 playoff
loss.

‘‘They’re definitely a veteran
team with a lot of confidence and a
lot of talent,’’ said W&L head
coach Dennis Daly. ‘‘They’re
every bit as good as they were last
year at this point.”’

The Bishops return talented
players in all three field positions,
but their midfielders are excep-
tionally strong.

They've got two of the top mid-
dies in the country,’ said Daly.
‘Both of those players are just
excellent.”

Daly is talking about seniors
Charlie Blanchard and Toby Bou-
cher. The Division III Midfielder-
of-the-Year in 1987 and a first
team all-American, Blanchard
scored 57 points last season (40
goals, 17 assists).

Boucher earned horiorable men-
tion status to the all-America team
last year and was named to the all-
Midwest first team after scoring 18

 

then senior Peter Smith scored, then
Giblin scored again, then junior John
Ware scored, then sophomore Carlos
Millan scored, then the half end-
ed—W&L 8, Macon 3.

The Jackets could muster only a
murmur of protest the rest of the way,
scoring two goals in the third period
and one in the fourth.

However, things were quite the op-
posite three days earlier on a sunny
afternoon in Charlottesville. After a
Giblin goal tied the game at one early
on, the Cavs took a lead they would
never relinquish.

Stanton scored unassisted to make
the score 3-2 at the 12:19 mark, but
UVa. scored twice more before the
first period ended to take a three-goal
lead.

Giblin scored unassisted to cut the
margin to two goals, but the quicker
and stronger Cavaliers answered with
13 straight goals to put the game out of
reach.

 

Generals looking for
revenge v. Bishops

goals and 13 assists.

**Without question, Toby is one
of the best pure athletes playing la-
crosse today,’’ said O-W head
coach Mike Pressler.

The Bishops also return their
leading scorer from last season,
senior attackman Rob Alvino. An-
other first team all-American, Al-
vino recorded 31 goals and 38 as-
sists in 1987.

‘*Rob might be the best attacker
ever to play at Ohio Wesleyan,’’
said Pressler. ‘‘He’s not only a
very talented offensive player but a
complete player.’’

The Bishops return all three
starting defenders, including
senior co-captain Chris Goss and
sophomore Mike Warnes, an all-
Midwest performer last season.

O-W’s one question mark may
be in the goal. Like W&L, the
Bishops lost their starting goalie to
graduation last year. Dan O'Neil,
the Division Ill Goalie-of-the- Year
in 1987, compiled a .686 save per-
centage last season.

Daly said the Bishops also have

‘some’ excellént“underclassmen to

fill in for the four starters lost to
graduation, including junior goalie
Jim Schwartz and sophomore at-
tacker Paul Sclafani.

 

Netters sweep Radford in straight sets

 

By Stuart Sheldon
Staff Reporter

 

In their only action this week, the
W&L men’s tennis team faced Rad-
ford University on Tuesday. It was the
first time in over three years that the
teams have met. Two years ago the
match between the two teams was
rained out, and last season Radford
was not on W&L’s schedule, said
head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘We didn’t
know their strengths [coming into
Tuesday’s match],’’ he added.

The Generals may not have known
Radford’s strengths, but they ran into
little trouble during the contest. W&L
netters scored all of the nine points
possible in the match, sweeping both
the singles and doubles competitions.
All six W&L singles players and the
three doubles teams won in straight
sets.

In the opening singles action,
W&L’s No. 2 player junior Bobby
Matthews, No. 3. senior David
McCleod and No. 5 senior Chris Wi-

man all blanked their opporents—6-0,
6-0—in each case.

The story was much the same in
doubles, where the Generals once
again rolled in straight sets.

The Generals will spend the next
two and a half weeks preparing for
their biggest weekend of the season,
when the Generals have two duel mat-
ches at Swarthmore College in Penn-
sylvania. W&L will face Division III
foe Swarthmore at noon on March 26,
and another hot rival, Washington
College, on the following day at 11
a.m.

Franke stressed the importance of
the Swarthmore weekend. He said the
trip will be important in determining
D-III rankings as well as seedings at
the D-III National Championships,:to
be held at here at Washington and Lee
from May 16-22.

The Generals will see action today
against Slippery Rock on the upper
tennis courts at 3:00 p.m. The Gen-
erals will also play host to Blooms-
burg tomorrow, again at 3:00 p.m. ”

 

 
    
  

 

mm one me me

ro
os r
wel or;
-
- 7
_*
* 2
=

ore
em
rw omen

 

 

 

 

wa eTD ome on BP
{ eel mre op ro
7

B

 

 

 

1 Mili St
Staunten, Va
885-3409

 

 

 

   
    

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

  

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

  

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

   
   
  

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who
are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them in
their physical, mental and spiritual development. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities and be
dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her poten-
tial. College students, teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP
THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is

an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sail-
ing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing
and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further infor-
mation write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird, Clover,
S.C., 29710, 803-831-2121.

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian And

Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close

Reservations suggested

 

 

 

 

Coors Lite & Extra Gold-6 Pk.

Orville Redenbacher-10.5 Oz.

Tropicana-64 Oz. Carton

USDA Choice

Golden Ripe-Large

16 Oz. Non-returnable

 

Lexington’s
Market

ES ne
oo ne
Se
Rib Eye Steaks ..........ccccccc00000.04.19 10,

COMIRIGUDG, 56;.siccssccescosecsccscecesecctll Osan

GO tntkiiddiidwktain.. et ae

Party Trays Available

Faded

ip at aati ay hl al

oe we ae whe

 

 

? ,

 
 

 

 

=BACK PAGE

U2 is the big winner at this year’s Grammys

 

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

It could have been billed as the night
Radio City Music Hall put on a better
musical extravaganza than the one the
Apollo Theatre put on for Motown's
50th anniversary in 1983. Or maybe it
could have been billed as a revival of
‘That's Incredible,’’ where Michael
Jackson gives his first televised ap-
pearance in five years, sets the stage
on fire with his dancing, and then only
wins one minor award. Or maybe it
could have been billed as ‘‘Poetic Jus-
tice: the night U2 finally finds what
they’ve been looking for.’’

Last Wednesday night’s 30th An-
nual Grammy Award Show at Radio
City Music Hall was all of these things
and much, much more. It was an even-
ing of unbelievable music, a couple
surprises, and as always, a reunion of
today’s finest musical performers.

Even though they only won two of
the four categories they were nomi-
nated in, world phenomenon U2 came
away from the Grammys as the big
winner, winning Best Rock Group and
Album of the Year for their multi-
platinum recording, The Joshua Tree.
After winning the Album of the Year
award for their seventh album, U2’s
lead singer, Bono, humorously sum-

- med up the band’s work.

“It’s really hard carrying the weight

- of the world on your shoulders, saving
__ the whales, organizing summits be-

tween world leaders and that sort of

thing, but we like our work, ’’he said.

Since recording their first album,
Boy, U2 has gotten the reputation of
being the socially conscious band
singing about such topics as apartheid,
The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., and
drug abuse. U2’s awards Wednesday
night were their first Grammys.

While much of the excitement fo-
cused on U2, no one could help enjoy-
ing and appreciating the incredible
musical show that the Grammy pro-
ducers put together.

Whitney Houston, Los Lobos, Su-
zanne Vega, and comedian Jackie
Mason all performed as well as many
other performers who performed in
medley salutes to music.

A salute to the music of New York
was highlighted by live performances
from George Benson (‘‘On Broad-
way’’), Cab Calloway (‘‘Minnie the
Moocher’’), Lou Reed (‘‘A Walk on
the Wild Side’’) and Billy Joel (‘‘I’m
in a New York State of Mind’’) with
David Sanborn on saxophone. Randy
Travis’ performance of ‘‘Forever and
Ever, Amen,”’ the song that won him
two Grammy awards later in the even-
ing, was a treat as the heart of the
Country medley.

Perhaps the most amazing medley,
though, came near the end of the show
in a salute to the music of the 1940s
and 50s. Old radio rapper Jocko Hen-
derson narrated his way through one
of his old teenage radio sagas with the
help of the 50’s groups, The Cadil-
lacs, The Regents, The Flamingos,
The Angels and Dion. Time, it
seemed, had moved backward. At
least for the night.

Technicolor is in more

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

Color by Spice is the name of Ann
Spice’s fashion consulting service
which promotes help for the wardrobe
weary.

Spice claims that studies indicate
that ‘‘an employer decides within the
first thirty seconds of an interview
whether he is going to hire the person
or not.’ In her classes and private
consultations, Spice finds the correct
palette of colors for businessmen,
professors and their spouses, male and
female W&L students, law students,
and anyone else who wants to improve
their look, as well as their self-image.

**You can tell a lot about a person
by their dress. You can usually tell
what their personality is like, what
their economic and family background
is, and their education level,’’ said
Spice.

Her job is to teach people how to
dress for the job they want to get, or
how to look more professional in their
chosen career. She has given talks at
the law school concerning what is ap-
propriate dress for interviews.

‘*Being conservative along with ex-
pressing personality is the secret,’’
she said.

Spice, who considered representing
a color consultation company, chose

 

not to because, she explained, ‘‘I
would have had to charge a $55 to $60
fee for the first consultation, and I
know this area of the country wouldn’t
support that. I wanted to appeal to a
wide variety of people—students,
professors’ wives, grocery store
checkers, etc.”’

For a private consultation, she
charges $30, while a class costs $25.
If an individual calls her and wants to
be in a class but has no other compan-
ions who want their colors done, then
Spice will find others to fill the class.
Classes are usually only four people in
size.

Spice has been in this business for
seven years. Before that, she taught
economics at Southern Seminary. She
first learned about color theory in col-
lege while working on her economics
degree.

Sewing students were taught to sew
clothes that were going to complement
their individual coloring. Spice’s
business sprung forth when she car-
ried that tracition into the classroom at
Southern Seminary.

“It just spread,’’ explains Spice. ‘‘I
got calls from stores, classes, bridge
clubs, so I decided to stop teaching
and make it my main business. ’’

She continued, ‘‘I’ve gone to a lot
of workshops and classes in Washing-
ton, and trained with people in
different companies, so I could gather
together what I thought was the best.”’

Her program is based upon a
seasonal color analysis, which means

‘There is no question though, that
the most electrifying performance
came when Michael Jackson took the
stage.

The audience's first look at Jackson
came as his silouetted form began do-
ing Jacksonesque dance steps behind a
paper wall. As the wall started moving
up, Jackson started getting down.
First he danced to a recording of ‘‘The
Way You Make Me Feel,”’ from his
current smash album Bad,and then
sang ‘‘The Man in the Mirror,’’ from
the same LP, with gospel great Andre
Crouch and a robed chorus in the
background.

As Jackson hit the floor on his knees
at the end of the song, the audience
jumped to its feet. Even though the
only award Jackson’s Bad album
would win would be for sound engi-
neering, the crowd let him know that
they loved his music. Jackson was
back in the spotlight again.

While the performances offered cer-
tain surprises, so did the awards.
While six people were double win-
ners, the rest of the awards seemed to
be scattered rather evenly among the
big names attending the ceremony.

Paul Simon won Record of the Year
for Graceland, Bruce Springsteen
won Best Male Rock Vocal for ‘*Tun-
nel of Love,’’ and Sting won Best Pop
Vocal for *‘Bring on the Night.”’

The Best New Artist award went to
Jody Watley, Best Comedy Recording
to Robin Williams, and Best Musical
Cast Show Album to Les Miserables.

Narada Michael Walden won Pro-
ducer of the Year honors for Whitney

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1988

Houston’s second album Whitney.
Best Rhythm and Blues Male went to
Smokey Robinson while perennial
favorite, and this year double winner,
Aretha Franklin won the female R&B
award, proving once again why she is
considered the Queen of Soul.

Other double award winners in ad-
dition to U2 and Aretha Franklin in-
cluded ‘‘Somewhere Out There’’ (the
theme from the Motion Picture An
American Tail), and Itzhak Perlman,
Robert Shaw, and Vladimir Horowitz
for his landmark recording Horowitz
in Moscow, taped last spring on Hor-
witz’s first trip to the Soviet Union
since his defection 40 years ago.

Horowitz also received the Presi-
dent’s Award of Merit from Alfred
W. Slezenger, President of the Acad-
emy of Recording Arts and Sciences.
In response, Horowitz remarked,
“I’m glad to see there is still apprecia-
tion for classical music.”’

While Wynton Marsalis won for
Best Jazz Group, other Jazz awards
went to the Pat Methany Group, Diane
Schuur and the Count Basie Orches-
tra, Dexter Gordon for The Other Side
of Round Midnight, Mercer Ellington
and Bobby McFerrin for Best Male
Jazz Vocal.

Second year Grammy host Billy
Crystal asked the audience repeatedly
throughout the night ‘‘Isn’t this some
show we’re having?’’ The answer was
simple. The Grammy awards were
more than just awards this year. They
were a celebration of music, of social
consciousness, and of the unity shared
by those people making today’s mu-

sic.

than just movies

that people’s colors coincide with a
season of the year.

Autumns and Springs are people
with yellow-gold skin tones. Winters
and Summers have grey-blue under-
tones. Spice chooses which category a
person falls under by looking at skin,
hair and eye color.

60 percent of men are color-blind to
some extent, according to Spice, so
she shows them how to put together
their shirts, ties and jackets.

Once they know their color palette,
matching the colors is:easy because all
of a season’s colors are coordinated.
She also teaches them which ties are
formal, casual, and sporty, as well as
analyzing their face shape to see
which glasses and hair style will look
best.

Women are offered two classes. In
the first one, they receive a book of
swatches which includes their best
colors (men also receive a book), a
sheet telling which make-up is best for
them, and what kind of jewelry will
look good on them.

The second class involves instruc-
tion on wardrobe planning, determin-
ing whether or not one is under- or
overdressed, more make-up planning,
and analyzing hair style, hair color,
face shape, and clothing personality.

In big cities, Spice claims, as many
men as women are having their colors
done but are charged more for it be-
cause companies are paying to have it

done. After one of her clients in-
creased his number of sales, she was
hired by that company to analyze 150
engineers.

One man told her that he could get
dressed in the dark now because
everything mixes and matches.

Margaret Pimblett, who _partici-
pated in one of Spice’s classes,
suggests students have their colors
done. ‘‘I think it’s a good idea for col-
lege students to get their colors analy-
zed because we’re starting to get into
investment clothing...just so you
won’t make an expensive mistake,
find out what’s right for you.”’

“I’m glad I did it,’’ agrees Lisabeth
Fowler, another member of Mar-
garet’s class. ‘‘It was very interesting.
I recommend that people try it. It gave
me confidence that what I was wear-
ing was right as far as colors were
concerned.”’

“‘Everything you wear should
flatter and energize you,’’ asserts
Spice. “‘The two biggest pluses from
this program is that it helps you look
your best and gives you an organized
approach to your clothing selection. It
saves you money in the long run. It
saves time and lessens the chance for
mistakes.”’

Carole Jackson, author of the Color
Me Beautiful books, advises that ‘‘if
you look beautiful on the outside and
feel wonderful on the inside, then you
can be truly excited about yourself and
your personal gifts.”’

 

Calendar

Friday, March 11
Law School spring holiday begins.
3 p.m.—MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Bloomsburg. Varsity Courts,
3 p.m.—BASEBALL: Generals vs. West Virginia Tech. Smith Field.
7: p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: Ben- Hur. Room 203, Reid Hall.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: What Have I Done to Deserve This? (Spain,
1984). Classroom ‘*A,’’ Lewis Hall,
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: GOLF: James Madison Spring Invita-
tional (through March 12).

Saturday, March 12
I p.m.—BASEBALL: Generals vs. West Virginia Tech. Smith Field.
2 p.m.—LACROSSE: Generals vs. Ohio Wesleyan. Wilson Field.
2 p.m.—OPERA BROADCAST: Strauss’ Ariadne auf Naxos.
WLUR-FM (91.5).
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: Ben- Hur. Room 203, Reid Hall.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: What Have I Done to Deserve This? (Spain,
1984). Classroom *‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: TRACK: Davidson

Sunday, March 13
5 p.m.—W&L NEWCOMERS: Meet at the home of Barbara Brown.

Monday, March 14

4 p.m.—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT SOPHO-
— GROUP MEETING: Choice of Major. Room 109, University

enter,
4:30 p.m.—ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: Prof. George Ray, ‘‘Shake-
speare a Century Ago: Pictorialism on the London Stage.’’ Payne 21.
Reception to follow.
5 p.m.—BIOLOGY FORUM: ‘‘General Lee’s Press-on Snails: Evolu-
_ : Campus.’’ Prof. Peter Bergstrom. Parmley 305. Refreshments
at 4:30.
8 p.m.—LECTURE: ‘‘Marginality and Subversion: Modern German
Women Writer.’ Renate Voris, U.Va. Tucker 406. Reception to follow
in Arlington Women’s Center.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S LACROSSE: Hollins.

Tuesday, March 15
3:30 p.m.—WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Lynchburg College.
3:30 p.m.—MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘“‘Transcendental Number
Theory.”’ Jeffery Vasler, University of Texas. Robinson 6. Refresh-
ment at 3 p.m.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASEBALL: Bridgewater.

Wednesday, March 16
Festival of New American Music
10:30 a.m.—COMPOSERS’ FORUM: ‘‘The Role of the Computer
Today: Where to From Here?’’ Northen Auditorium, University Li-
brary.
2 p.m.—PERFORMERS’ FORUM: ‘‘Preparation for Performance.’’
Northen Auditorium, University Library.
8 p.m.—CONCERT: Festival of New American Music. Lee Chapel.
9-12 p.m.~—WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN THE G.H.Q.: The Willies.
GHQ.
AWAY ATHLETICS EVENTS: LACROSSE: Lynchburg College;
Golf: ODAC Round Robin, Ashland, Va.; WOMEN’S LACROSSE:
Bridgewater.

Thursday, March 17
2 p.m.—COMPOSERS’ AND PERFORMERS’ FORUM: ‘‘New
Sounds From Traditional Instruments: How Far Do We Go?’’ Northen
Auditorium.
3 p.m.—MENS TENNIS: Generals vs. Millersville.
3 p.m.—BASEBALL: Generals vs. Eastern Mennonite.
4 p.m.—PHYSICS/ENGINEERING SEMINAR: ‘‘Angular Momen-
tum and Artificial Intelligence.’’ Prof. H.T. Williams. Parmley 201.
Refreshments at 3:30.
8:30 p.m.—CONCERT: Festival of New American Music. Lee
Chapel.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: MENS SWIMMING: NCAA Div. III
Championships.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

SERVIGTAR, || ‘ions precinct || CRAFTS PLUS, INC. —_[TYPISTS: tonics ss] Homeworkers wanted
imeem || furee ammaumencan, || CAMBS. HOBMESRCHAFTOUPFLEES = Write: ilsme ake bitin eam
an aeeic lenc Mon.-Sat. 10-5 P.O. Box 17 » ewes
= 463-2242 eae jae 31 S. Main St. oo 463-3355 i Clark, New Jersey 07066 Norman, OK 73069.
CRUISE SHIPS
NOW HIRING M/F b TO CK

Summer & Career Opportunities
(Will Train). Excellent pay plus world
travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean,
etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext.
495J.

v

aé2
Barbour

Se ae
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

   
  

 

 

directly behind Leggett’s
136 Varner Lane

 

    
   
 

 

  

 

ege 463-3975
*‘The Best British
Outdoor Clothing’ Nexxus, Redken, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell
Beauty Boutique
7
pee eLoU Nel re SS
Lynn Tyree — area)
Specializing in men’s haircuts ere lode aS airs | (ela) 463-1800
107 West Nelson St. 463-2422 Cea A Srey a ace BT

 

 

 

 

 

Merle Norman Cosmetics
M-F 10-7 p.m.; Sat. 10-5 p.m.

 

Apartment For Rent

RSM

2 bedrooms, bath, kitchen, living room, all large rooms, newly Rt. 11 North ,, pis ¢ ‘te Gal, 463-1782
remodeled, Tucker Street, Walking distance to campus. 72 Price Cosmetic Sale eee
M : ‘ und .
9 S visits $29.00 Solar Nails
isits $49.00
Available - June 1 Z ere tas PROFESSIONAL ARTIST NEEDS MODELS

CALL 463 4353

Call 463-7788 or 463-5875

Ist Visit Free
Devueeevencennscencencanusenvennensnncancenceancancencaneavscssnnencesneescesceoneenecaneenseanenuevvocssnevseevocesneeneaneoesnennien

 

 

 

 
