  

y
‘

4

J
4

 

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 26

Spring cleaning
Lexington
looks at litter

 
     

    

Page 3

 

  

Spring forward

Set clocks ahead
Sunday morning

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your Foxfield weather

Friday: Partly sunny;
fair through weekend

 

APRIL 24, 1986

 

Rape
charge
dropped

By JIMSTRADER
Editor

 

 

Washington and Lee freshman
Burgess A. “Tommy’’ Thomasson
has been cleared of a rape charge
that was filed against him after a
December incident in Graham-Lees
Dormitory.

Ina motion submitted yesterday in
Lexington General District Court,
Commonwealth's Attorney Beverly
C. “John” Read asked that the
charge be dismissed ‘‘at the request
of the complaining witness and her
family.”

Thomasson, a 19-year-old from
Mobile, Ala., was arrested Dec. 8 in
Graham-Lees after he was accused
of rape by an 18-year old woman who
at the time was a freshman at Hollins
College.

A press release signed this week by

‘ Read; Thomasson’s attorney, Eric L.

Sisler; and two Lexington police of-
ficers states that the woman now

' says that “the incident between

’ herself and Thomasson resulted from
a misunderstanding, that Thomas-

‘ son’s conduct did not constitute

’ rape.”’

The prosecutor’s motion said Lex-
ington Police Chief L.O. Sutton and
the investigating police officers join-

in the motion to have the matter

. Sinisa

‘

In the. statement, Thomasseon’s. at; .

torneys expressed confidence that
had their client gone to trial, he
would have been acquitted.
Proceedings against Thomasson
twice were delayed due to problems

' the Lexington Police Department

Offer of immunity
delays drug cases

é

+

\

had_ with
evidence.

laboratory tests of

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A prosecutor’s motion to grant im-
munity to two defendants in drug
possession cases has caused the
preliminary hearings for nine
Washington and Lee students to be
postponed.

Commonwealth’s Attorney Bever-
ly C. ‘John’ Read asked at a Tues-
day hearing that the two defendants
— Chris Reavis, a junior from New
City, N.Y., and 1985 graduate Greg-
ory Bryan Morcroft of Hollywood,
Fla. — be considered for immunity
from prosecution in exchange for
their testimony against the other
defendants.

The nine students and Morcroft
were arrested Jan. 12 at the 201 E.
Nelson St. apartment of seniors Bill
Michaud and Jim Culnane, who were
also charged in the incident. Michaud
is from Pearl River, N.Y., and Cul-
nane is from Fitchburg, Mass.

All 10 defendants are charged with
possession of marijuana. Michaud
also was charged with possession of

 

i
|

ir

i

si

 

  

By Reade Williams/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L student is said to have attempted credit card fraud at this bank branch

Student is suspect in credit fraud

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A Washington and Lee student is the primary suspect
in the fraudulent use this month of a Visa credit card in
an attempt to obtain $1,800 in cash from a local bank, ac-
cording to police.

“The person has been identified,’ Lexington Police
Chief L.O. Sutton said yesterday. ‘‘There’s just a couple
of loose ends being put together in relation to some other
charges...relating to the individual.”

“It’s coming,’’ Sutton said of an arrest in the case. The
individual likely will be charged with grand larceny and
fraudulent use of a credit card, the police chief said.

The police report for the case says that on the morning

identification two other credit cards issued in the same
name.

The teller then took those cards and then refused the in-
dividual’s request that the three be returned. At that
point, the individual left the bank, according to the
report.

The cards were identified as belonging to third-year

~ law student David M. Murray Jr. of Newport News, who

was unaware they were missing until police notified him
Murray subsequently filed a complaint with police,
Stating that the cards had been taken from his wallet
while it was in the locker room of the W&L gymnasium.

Nancy Plogger, branch manager of the U.V.B. office,
filed a complaint with police after the incident. She said
she would not comment on the case because she feared it
might ‘‘hamper’’ the police investigation.

of interferin
with police

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

The involvement of the Executive
Committee in a recent check-forgery
case caused a student suspect to flee
prosecution, according to Lexington
Police Chief L.O. Sutton, who warned
that in the future such action could
result in criminal liability for student
leaders or University administra-
tors.

EC President John Lewis said that
as a result of the incident, the com-
mittee now contacts law-enforce-
ment officials about a_ potential
crime as soon as possible after
charging the individual with an honor
offense.

Sutton said yesterday that former
Washington and Lee freshman Wil-
liam P. Martin II “skipped town”
just before his scheduled EC honor
hearing. The warrant for his arrest is
dated April 1; Martin withdrew from
W&L the next day

Lewis declined to confirm Sutton’s
account, saying he could not com-
ment on an individual case ‘‘for the
good of the | Honor| System.”’

Using the Lexington warrant
charging Martin with forgery of a
check with intent to defraud, police in

of. April,10,..an .individual,.attempted..to.make @ Withorss.....outtonsaid the other. possible charges against the W&l,..Martin’s hometown. .of...Chillicothe,

drawal from United Virginia Bank at its branch south of
downtown Lexington between the W.B. Harrison Mor-
tuary Company and the Virginia House of Lexington
restaurant.

A teller at the bank told police she knew the individual
who presented the card was not the person who owned it.
When she tried to call the credit card owner to verify the
use of the Visa, the individual at the counter produced as

cocaine after a small amount of the
drug was identified in a laboratory
test last month.

In addition to Reavis, Morcroft,
Michaud and Culnane, the following
students were charged: G.T. Cor-
rigan, a senior from Villanova, Pa.;
Fred Driscoll, a junior from Ded-
ham, Mass.; Brad MacCachran, a
junior from Sudbury, Mass.; Ned
Richardson, a senior from Holden,
Mass.; Scott Schreiber, a senior from
Williamsburg; and Bill Zola, a senior
from Sudbury, Mass.

Lexington lawyer Laurence A.
Mann, representing Reavis and Zola,
questioned the fairness of having one
of his clients testify in the case of the
other. He said it put him in a difficult
position as an attorney.

Lexington General District Judge
Joseph E. Hess agreed with Mann
and called Read’s motion ‘“untime-
ly” because he made it just as the
hearing was beginning. Hess added
that it had an “ambush effect”’ on the
four attorneys representing the ac-
cused because it presented them with

(JSee Drugs, Page 4

News Editor

 

 

By JASON LISI

student relate to the ‘‘use of the credit cards at other
places and fraudulently obtaining money and merchan-
dise with the cards.”’

Theft of the cards constitutes grand larceny and car-
ries a possible penalty of 20 years in prison, a $1,000 fine,
or both. Fraudulent use of a credit card for more than
$200 is a felony and carries a possible penalty of one to.
five years in prison, a $1,000 fine, or both.

 

These posters were part of a London anti-American protest

Professors differ on Libyan raid

Ohio, arrested him the morning of
April 14 “right here in front of the
police department ... he must have
been in the neighborhood,”’ said Eliza
G. Baum of the Chillicothe Police
Department.

Chillicothe officials also charged
Martin with being a fugitive from

 

 

 

E

By Jason Lisi/The Ring-tum Phi

   

A protester and her paper

must be both ‘neccessary and proportional.”

“It can’t be very exact,” he said

“There would be some question in this case as to

- New treasurer comes
from William & Mary

 

LAWRENCE W. BROOMALL

 

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Lawrence W. ‘‘Larry’’ Broomall,
currently vice president for business
affairs at the College of William &
Mary, has been named treasurer of
Washington and Lee.

“I’m very excited about it,’’ said
Broomall, the replacement for E
Stewart Epley, who is retiring this
summer after seven years at W&L.

Broomall said the job was offered
to him two weeks ago by University
President John D. Wilson. He noted
that he and Wilson had worked
together occasionally while both

See Treasurer, Page 5

 

The United States may have violated international
law in last week’s air strike against Libya, according to
a Washington and Lee Law School professor. -

However, the U.S. took the only action possible in that
situation, says an ROTC professor

Another professor says that although the decision to
attack may not have been the wisest in view of world
opinion, the United States should have used more force
in its actions and killed Libyan leader Moammar
Khadafy

Dean of the Law School Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., who
teaches international law and has written two books on
the subject, said the United States might have gone
against the United Nations charter in the degree of at
tack last week.

The terrorist activities themselves, if sponsored by
Libya, are breaches of international law, Kirgis said
“The question under international law would be,
‘What's an appropriate remedy or response to those ac
tivities?’ "’ he said

Article 51 of the U.N. charter says that members of
the organization have an “inherent right to individual
or collective self-defense” if there is an attack on that
country. But, Kirgis added, the degree of retaliation

whether our actions met those tests, especially, I think,
the proportionality tests,’’ he said

‘We may have violated the United Nations charter
and customary international law by attacking Libya,”’
he concluded

Kirgis added that even if the attack could be justified,
the United States could be found guilty of breaking cer-
tain humanitarian rules by killing and wounding civil
ians in the attacks

However, the excuse that some civilians were killed
accidently in the raid on military bases could hold up,
Kirgis said. *‘Everybody realizes that a bomb can miss
its target,’ he said. ‘If it’s legitimate to be dropping the
bomb in the first place, that just becomes one of the
breaks of the game.”

Lt. Col. Luke B. Ferguson, a professor of military
science with special knowledge of international ter-
rorism, said the decision to attack was the only possible
solution left

‘I think the president did what he needed to do,’’ he
said. ‘‘I don’t think he had any choice

He added that ‘‘without a question” the raids were

See Libya, Page 5

justice. Martin is fighting extradi-
tion, according to Chillicothe Police
Capt. David M. Hough.

Virginia initiated extradition pro-
ceeding against Martin the day after
his arrest. The procedure should take
about two more weeks, Sutton said.

Sutton, who said the EC was ‘“‘very
cooperative after the fact,’’ contends
the committee should have notified
police when it became aware of a
possible criminal action involving a
student.

“They were trying it as an honor
violation prior to us even having
knowledge of it,’’ Sutton said.
“Because of them proceeding in that
manner, it caused him to escape us.
If they had notified us first before all
that, we would have picked him up
and had the charge filed prior to their
proceeding.’’

‘He was alerted by what they were
doing that there were criminal
charges [imminent] against him,”’
Sutton added.

When student or University of-
ficials handle a_ potential crime
— particularly a felony — as an
honor or administrative matter prior
to reporting it to civil authorities,
Sutton said, they ‘‘could become in-
volved in either [the] compounding
or misprisioning [concealing] of a
felony, or they could be in jeopardy of
possible obstruction of justice.”

Sutton said that if a University
body failed to cooperate with police
in the investigation of a possible
crime, the prosecution of students or
administrators on such charges is ‘‘a

()See EC, Page 5

European
programs
canceled

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

 

 

About 40 students came home
early from their European spring
term abroad programs after
Washington and Lee called the
students back to protect them
from possible retaliation for the
U.S. raid on Libya last week.

Dean of the College John W.
Elrod conferred with President
John D. Wilson, the faculty
members organizing the abroad
programs, and an _ unidentified
person in the State Department
before the decision was made to
cancel the programs.

“The risk of harm to our
students was too great,’’ Elrod
said this week. ‘‘We couldn't con-
clude that it would be safe for our
students.”

There are six spring term
abroad programs — five in
Europe and one in Taiwan. The
five that were canceled were
located in London, Paris, Madrid,
Athens and Bayreuth, Germany.

Students whose programs have
been in progress since the winter
term were not affected.

The 39 students who returned
are being allowed to register for
other classes without paying the
$5 drop/add fee

Music Professor Gordon P.
Spice, who was in Europe with the
Glee Club during break, said the
students he was with never felt
any danger and were received
well wherever they went.

Local travel agents said this
week that they aren’t receiving
many cancellations but are advis-
ing travelers that they might want
to consider areas other than
Europe

“Questions have been asked by
travelers,’ though, said Jane Pur-
vis of Travel Unlimited

 

 

 
OPINION
Think again

The University Council is designed to give students an involve-
ment in the University governmental process ... It serves as an of-
ficial intermediary between students, faculty and administration,
and as a sounding board for ideas brought by students and facul-
ty ... (It) serves as the highest authority over student affairs.”

— Student Handbook 1985-86, pp. 6-7.

 

“...(The Student Affairs Committee) is responsible for the
establishment of parietal rules in dormitories, for all matters
relating to fraternities and for the hearing of appeals from deci-
sions of the Student Control Committee. It acts upon recommen-
dations of the Judicial Board of the Interfraternity Council ... In
essence, the Committee has authority for all noncurricular mat-
ters affecting student life at the University.”

— Student Handbook 1985-86, p. 13.

The University Council’s desire to abolish itself seems on
the surface to be an idea whose time has come. Few students
know what the UC does, and even fewer try to get elected to
one of its 12 students positions. What purpose the UC serves
seems lost somewhere along the line.

Looks, however, can be deceiving.

The recent move by the UC to petition the faculty to
dissolve the UC and to restructure the Student Affairs Com-
mittee to incorporate some UC functions does not appear to
be the answer to the Council’s relative obscurity.

The UC was created to improve communication between
students and administartion at a time when suspicions of in-
tentions between the two groups were running high. ‘“They”’
never seemed to consider ‘‘our’”’ position, and ‘‘we’’ never
had a chance to argue ‘“‘our’’ points before ‘‘them,” the
arguement went.

The UC was designed to ease that breakdown in com-
munication. By meeting regularly, students and faculty
could make decisions with more ease. Over the years,
though, the UC began to take on fewer and seemingly more
trivial topics. The suspicions that existed began to crumble,
and the student interest in improving a system that was
already working never seemed to gel.

So when the UC proposes its own demise, we aren’t surpris-
ed. In an age when the existence of any organization is
prefaced by the need for it or the service it will provide, as
well as its cost-effectiveness, the UC would seemingly
deserve to fall by the way.

But should it? .

Looking at its purposes as described above, we would say
no. There is always some aspect of University business that
deserves student input, although ‘‘they” usually don’t want
to hear what ‘‘we”’ think. Outside of the Executive Commit-
tee and this newspaper, there are few, if any, other forums
through which ‘‘an exchange of ideas on critical issues facing
the University”’ may take place in an official forum. In that
sense, we ought to keep the UC alive. Its focus ought to be
redefined, allowing it to take on some of the long-term studies
that recently have been delegated to special committees set
up by the president to address a pressing concern. But to
abolish the UC out of hand is a drastic measure.

To follow the UC’s recommendation, however, and restruc-
ture SAC membership to allow for greater student participa-
tion in lieu of continuing with the UC seems inappropriate on
some counts. The current proposal for adding three elected
positions and dropping the seats by the president of the IFC,
chairman of the SCC and head dormitory counselor is a poor
suggestion for many reasons.

SAC stands primarily as a group to review the decisions of
the SCC regarding behavioral conduct offenses. They either
concur with the SCC’s verdict and sentence or they recom-
mend an alternative. To eliminate him or her from any such
discussion would not promote stability within an already
weak disciplinary process.

The same can be said for the elimination of the seat held by
the IFC president. He is there to explain the concerns of the
fraternities in certain decisions, and because SAC is charged
with reviewing all IFC Judicial Board decisions and matters
relating to the fraternities here at Washington and Lee, not to
have the IFC president would hardly result in a fair hearing
for the issue. His presence certainly seems invaluable.

The only person whose membership on the SAC seems ex-
pendable is the head dormitory counselor. His particular ex-
pertise in any given case before the SCC is minimal, given
the nature of his job and the experience it brings.

So why change these three positions to allow for ‘“‘at-large’”’
members? Some say that ‘‘factions’”’ (a codeword for frater-
nities, one might guess) within the University are currently
over-represented. Would ‘‘at-large’”’ elections correct that
imbalance? Three student offices currently elected by the
whole student body — EC president, vice-president and
secretary — are scheduled to be filled by three fraternity
members next year.

If the concern is that few students have input into faculty
and administration decisions, does a change in SAC member-
ship really change the voice with which students might col-
lectively speak?

The answer to the UC’s relative ineffectiveness does not lie
in merely doing away with the body. Changing, or at least
sharpening, its focus seems a much more rational move.
Broadening the area of its concern and opening its discus-
sions to include other more pressing discussions might, in the
future, render the UC a body with — at least — a purpose.

 
 

= =
e King-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

BIIVOIIS ik iit ei lida Mike Allen

FRE gone ob cc seccestecsnteriouscriessyectanesescaneiiiecsves Paul Foutch
Jim Strader

te Reade Williams

eich sls Wi ini Mike Stachura

PON aiid abs cock caked oes 04s A aa Te dance tenis Jason Lisi

Photography Editor coeccessccccne cece Ove Baler

ee ee Matt Horridge

WOOTTON TRIE. goog ccc ccc cee hac encccsessrececsinerciss Marshall Boswell

ARUN 6c ies a GEG David Emrich

EDITORIAL PAGE

TEMP IAT OGG ANCE ow... ec ects ses inenscessies ccteccsces MOMGRPAUEIDOR

Assistant Editorial Page Editor... .... 2.0.6.6 6.60 c cee ceedeecccesees ++ Marie Kothman

err ee ee Chris Bowring

BUSINESS STAFF

MI nee 0a a ices Jeff Kimbell

ne ee Hank Greenberg

a a as ois iis oo tate vend John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley
Se Matt Horridge

 

Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

 

 

(C73
I’ History...”

 

 

‘~~

qn

Libyan raid creates greater insecurity —

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

After last week’s air raid by the
United States on Libya, I am bother-
ed by a nagging question: What the
hell was the United States attempting
to accomplish? As far as I can tell,
the only positive effect has been to
make Americans feel that Khadafy
was finally getting some of his own
medicine.

Can Americans really think that
hitting a few Libyans will put an end
to Libyan-sponsored terrorism? This
is ostensibly what President Reagan
was trying to do, but anyone who
believes the raid will serve this pur-
pose is hopelessly naive. Already two
British citizens and an American
have been killed in retaliation for the
raid, and this is just the beginning.
Most observers expect terrorist in-
cidents in Europe to increase this
summer (this is why W&L decided to
cancel the ‘‘spring term abroad”’ pro-
grams this year), and I think 1986
will see more victims of terrorism
than any other year. The Libyan raid
will prove to have sparked many acts
of terrorism, and quelled none.

Americans should have another
worry brought on by the raid. For the
first time, we have been responsible
for the deaths of innocent civilians
(and no one can doubt that some vic-

tims of the raid were guilty only of
residing in Libya) on Libyan soil. It
would not surprise me if Colonel Kha-
dafy responded by moving his terror-
ist activities from Europe to Ameri-
ca. The American people will regret
last week’s bombs if LaGuardia and
O’Hare airports explode instead of
those in Rome or Vienna.

We have seen what America hoped
to accomplish, and what is likely to
be the result. If the bombing was a
mistake, what should we have done?
It seems to me the Reagan adminis-
tration had to decide whether Khada-
fy was (and is) a dangerous lunatic
who threatened world peace and the
national security of the United
States, or was/is he merely an annoy-
ing pest who should be swatted.
away? If Khadafy is just a pest, why
bomb Libya? If he is a dangerous
lunatic, why not attempt some mili-
tary measure guaranteed to remove
him from power? One could claim
that the American raid was intended
to remove Khadafy, but if so, the raid
can only be viewed as a miserable
failure.

If the United States believes that
Khadafy threatens American na-
tional security, it must go into Libya
and get him. Either we would arrest
him or he would end up on the much
talked about “Ex-dictators Island”
(where presumably he could remi-
nisce on the good-old-days of repres-
sion and Swiss bank accounts with
Baby Doc Duvalier and the Mar-
coses, )

ing), or he could drop a few bombs (a
few symbols, if you will) on Libya,
just to show that ‘America can’t be
pushed around.”’ These bombs serv-
ed to aggrandize Ronald Reagan’s

Of course, an attempt to arrest
Khadafy would require a full-scale
invasion of Libya which might prove
more costly than Americans would
tolerate. Ronald Reagan has obvious-

ly not yet amassed the requisite for- personal prestige, boost his ratings in

titude to order a drastic action such the popularity polls and give the

as this. American people the impression that
the United States had acted decisive- |

Not wishing to expose his ad-
ministration to the risks an invasion
would entail, President Reagan was
left with a choice. He could continue
his old policy (calling Khadafy
names, but essentially doing noth-

ly to halt Libyan terrorism. The Li-
byan raid was an ineffective exercise
of~ America’s military might and
Ronald Reagan’s ego. Anyone who
sees it otherwise is _ tragically

mistaken.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Prairie Panic’ at W&L peeves law student

To the editors:

The grimly funny resemblances between
Washington Hall and the U.S. State Department
have long been a source of wry amusement to
me. Both are, as a rule, confused, self-righteous,
leaderless and totally bereft of any sense of
history. But only last week did Washington Hall
finally confuse itself with the Foggy Bottom
Boys. On Tuesday or Wednesday of last week,
the Midwest Mafia issued, over President Wil-
son’s signature, a ‘‘traveler’s advisory” for W&L
citizens — sorry, students — traveling in Europe.
Well, really, isn’t this pushing it just a bit?

In the first place, despite Third World reaction
to the Navy and Air Force’s program of urban
renewal for downtown Tripoli, there is nothing
yet to suggest that Americans abroad are in
greater danger than before. If there were such a
suggestion, the Department of State would have
done something about it. But it is emphatically
the province of the Department of State to make
these decisions — certainly not that-of the in-
tellectually cloistered Cornhuskers who now
work at W&L. Moreover, the whole purpose of
U.S. action against the (mis)government of
Libya was to prevent future terror, regardless of
its sponsor state, by demonstrating the truth of
its consequences, It is too early to say that this
has worked, true; but it is also too early to say it
must, inevitably, backfire. Yet this is precisely
what the Prairie Panic means. Having long ob-
served, with horrified fascination, the workings
(or otherwise) of the liberal academic mind, I
rather wonder which was more firm: the panic
of those who ordered the students back, or their
refusal to accept the notion of deterrence simply
because it was the Reagan administration's no-
tion.

But more worrisome is the element of compul-
sion. Let us assume the noblest motivations in
the “‘return order.’’ Let us assume a true con-
cern, on the part of those who issued it, for the
safety of students for whom they feel responsi-
ble. Even so, it was wrong to use the academic
credit system to force students to return against
their wishes, The State Department after all, has
not required their return. And it’s philosophical-
ly incommensurate to suggest that students who
may be trusted to manage this Honor System
cannot make their own decisions as to foreign
study. But that, of course, is the problem. There
are those in Washington Hall who do not yet re-

cognize that they are no longer at some State
University on the Platte; nor does their ideology
predispose them to learn the distinction. And so
we stumble on, and another link to past princi-

ples snaps. Harumph.
Cordially,
Markham S. Pyle ’84, ’88L

Chairman Guerriero calls
SAB stories misleading

To the editors:

If we are to take the three latest articles on the
Student Activities Board as an indication of the
journalistic quality and accuracy of The Ring-
tum Phi, then you might as well distribute your
publication at Safeway next to The Globe, The
Star and The National Enquirer.

In the Jan. 30 article, The Phi apparently judg-
ed unfair a policy of admitting board members to
SAB events that they worked on. The March 30
report alluded to all of the ‘“‘problems’’ that sup-
posedly plagued Fancy Dress. Finally, the most
recent account discussed the grave ‘‘losses”’ the
SAB had incurred on Fancy Dress and the Vio-
lent Femmes concert.

Now if one were to review these articles, one
would surely come away with a misconception of
what the SAB has accomplished this year. In
each of the articles your supposedly reputable
reporters have taken casual interviews with SAB
board members and notes from EC meetings and
edited them to fit your own misconceived views
of the SAB. The Phi has taken quotations out of
context and dramatized standard events and
policies, creating a form of “Fairy Tale Jour-
nalism.”’ And quite frankly, I’m fed up with it.

If your reporters had taken the time to recog-
nize what are very traditional admission policies
and minor problems, as well as standard losses
inherent in the operation of the SAB, and then
given them due importance, you could have

never misrepresented our organization.

To set the record straight to faculty; students
and alumni, the SAB, has had one of its best
years recent history. We have had numerous and
well-received concerts, on top of what was con-
sidered a very successful Fancy Dress, and plan
to have two more concerts in the spring.

Financially, due to much more efficient man-
agement of both the organization and its funds,’
we are expecting to return to the student body
funds in excess of $10,000.

I hope in the future the Phi staff will portray
events surrounding the SAB in their proper light
and contexts.

Mike Guerriero
Chairman, Student Activities Board

UVa students want apology

Reprinted by permission of the Cavalier Daily.

An open letter to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity and President Wilson:

As spectators attending the Virginia-
Washington and Lee lacrosse game this past
Saturday [March 22], we were shocked and
disgusted by the vulgarity displayed by certain
members of your student body.

Throughout the game, these extremely drunk-
en, obnoxious young men verbally abused both
Virginia players and fans with a vocabulary of
certain four-letter words which obviously show-
ed the breadth of their learning. After the game
was over, we and the others around us were
treated to their urinating as a group on the Scott
Stadium field.

We truly feel sorry for those parents in the
crowd with children who no doubt received a
wonderful and enlightening education from your
students on this memorable afternoon. The im-
pression of your university we all now have is un-
forgettable. It was without question the worst
afternoon of our lives.

We feel we speak for the whole University
community in demanding an apology for this
thoroughly deplorable series of incidents. In the
future, if your students cannot conduct them-
selves in a proper manner, please have them
stay on that side of Afton Mountain.

Marc A. Hogan

Scott A. Sandridge

Graduate School of Arts and Sciences I
University of Virginia

 

 

a &

“a =
gy amma
a
A®
¢

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

‘Lexington to clean itself up Saturday

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

A city-wide effort to clean up Lex-
ington will take place on Saturday,
but previous engagements may keep

‘ many Washington and Lee students
. from participating in the event,

~

gy 4

according to some of its organizers.

The Clean Lexington Committee,
part of the Downtown Lexington
Association, is sponsoring the first
“Clean Lexington Day,” according to
Chairman Trish Roberts.

But Bobby Fitts, a W&L senior who
has helped organize a canned food
drive for the area poor, says many
students are already planning to go
to the Hollins College Cotillion or the
Foxfield races this weekend.

‘What I’m going to do is call all the
fraternity presidents and get them to
clean up all around their houses Sat-
urday morning,” Fitts said yester-
day.

He is also planning to leave his
Cotillion date at Hollins on Saturday
to organize W&L’s effort in the event.
Students can gather at the Lexington
Visitors’ Center at 2 p.m. to march
through town and pick up litter.

Fitts is urging students to par-
ticipate, not just to clean up the com-
munity, but to give something back
toit.

“I have an infatuation with Lex-
ington,”’ Fitts said, adding that there
might be some resentment among
Lexingtonians for W&L_ students,
who are seen as part of the litter pro-
blem.

‘“They’re very serious about it, but
they’re not irate,’’ he said.

According to Roberts, the general
intent of the day is to clean up the
community and to make Lexington-
ians aware of the litter problem.

The committee is funded by the
Department of Virginia Litter Con-
trol and annually receives a $3,000
grant for community projects.

This local effort is part of a state-
wide program for April titled ‘Keep
Virginia Clean’’ and the national
Clean America Program.

Members of the committee took a
litter survey by walking through Lex-
ington. They concluded that “im-
properly contained trash’’ was the
most prevalent problem.

Roberts cited Lee Avenue as a ma-
jor problem, noting that there are
several fraternities and some student
housing along this road.

‘A general feeling is definitely that
W&L students contribute a major
part of litter to the city,’’ she said.

Many students aren’t conscious
about the amount of litter they
generate, Roberts said, addding that

Guerriero: SAB

may return $10,000
to EC at end of year

“=== —§- Moreover, Guerriero said the SAB

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Student Activities Board Chairman

» Mike Guerriero said the SAB is doing

“very well’ this year, despite the
$10,000 loss on student events that his
organization reported to the Ex-
ecutive Committee three weeks ago.

The SAB reported a loss of $5,460 on
Fancy Dress weekend and $4,900 on
the March 15 Violent Femmes con-

, cert.

a

“2

Guerriero said this loss was to be
expected because the job of the SAB
is to subsidize entertainment, not to
fund it completely.

‘* ‘Subsidize’ is a good word,”
Guerriero said. He explained that the
SAB received $44,000 from the EC at
the beginning of the year to help pay
for expenses.

‘That was how we can afford to br-

‘ ing in above-normal, quality enter-

~

—_=

tainment — like R.E.M. or the Ro-
mantics,’’ Guerriero said.

Since it would be impractical, ac-

* cording to Guerriero, to charge $15
_ for a concert ticket at Washington

and Lee, the SAB is able to sign big-
name acts and charge a low ticket

, price by subsidizing the extra ex-
/ pense with the money received from

student taxes.

He used the R.E.M. show as an ex-
ample. It cost $21,000 to put on the
show, yet the SAB could sell only
2,000 tickets. Since these tickets were
$10 each, there remained about $1,000

. to cover. This is where the extra SAB

mone 's used

should have enough money at the end
of the year to pay back the $10,000
lost by last year’s SAB.

“We're going to have $10,000 left
over,” he said. ‘‘Normally, we could
just blow it, but we decided that we
are going to put it back into the
reserve fund,’’ Guerriero said.

This year the SAB has been keep-
ing careful records and budgeted the
year properly, according to Guer-
riero. They originally planned on
breaking even at Fancy Dress, but
ran into a series of unexpected ex-
penses.

Guerriero maintained, however,
that in the past, no decent records
were kept, which meant that each
new SAB staff had to guess how much
to spend on Fancy Dress and other
SAB-sponsored functions. Now that a
budget has been attempted, he said,
“Next year they shouldn’t lose
anything.”

Again, Guerriero emphasized that
the $5,000 loss incurred at Fancy
Dress was an expense the students
didn’t pay for directly, but rather
was covered by EC money.

In addition, Guerriero said the SAB
has been putting on the right concerts
and attracting people.

“Everything that came our way
that was good and that we could af-
ford, we got,” he said.

The process of signing acts is sub-
ject to what bands are touring in the
area, Guerriero explained. His book-
ing agent normally signs the acts in
conjunction with performances at

 

 

 

 

Trash piles up outside a building in Lexington

it was hard getting the message
across to the students and motivating
them to participate in community ac-
tivity.

Lorraine Ennis at the Chamber of
Commerce remarked that the basic
idea was awareness and to encour-
age clean-up.

The committee is hoping that the
first day will encourage and inspire
the community. The committee is a

 

MIKE GUERRIERO

Jame" Madison University in Har-
risonburg; and the’ University of
Virgittia in Charlottesville, among
other area schools. Thus, the artist
might play one or more schools in the
same area on the same weekend.

“I’m called by my booking agent
and he tells me, ‘They're coming
through,’ ’’ Guerriero said. ‘‘We talk
to people around campus to get an
idea how the band would go over and
then we either put in an offer or bag
it.’

Guerriero said that, due to sched-
uling problems, the SAB has had to
turn down offers from acts such as
Modern English, the Alarm and Sim-
ple Minds. Others, such as John Caf-
ferty and the Beaver Brown Band,
were rejected due to lack of student
interest.

Upcoming events include a spring
concert on the Colonnade set for May
17 featuring Heinsohn and Day. In
addition, efforts are underway to
schedule a fall concert during frater-
nity rush in order to bring the whole
student body together.

“The first semester, we budgeted
roughly half ($20,000) of the money
given us, and only spent $15,000. So
we're doing well. We're making
money while providing diverse enter-
tainment. All that comes from is
good budgeting,’ Guerriero said.

long-term one, and the Lexington
Chamber of Commerce will most
likely be overseeing the state grant,
she said.

On Saturday the city will be divid-
ed into groups, and volunteers will
spend an hour or so picking up the

garbage. In addition to W&L
students, volunteers will be the Boys
Club, Boy Scouts, Brownies, Girl
Scouts and VMI cadets.

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

 

What makes a sane man pay hun-
dreds of dollars for a hammer?

A panel discussion on the defense
procurement practices to be held in
Lee Chapel all day tomorrow will try
to answer that question.

The importance of the topi¢’Ties

mainly in the fact that procurement -

consumes over 1% of the $300 billion
Department of Defense budget, ac-
cording to the Congressional Budget
Office.

“Scandals in the last four to five
years have shown that the procure-
ment process has gotten out of
hand,’ Journalism Professor Clark
R. Mollenhoff said.

Mollenhoff, who has investigated
problems of the procurement pro-

=

Pe

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Improperly contained trash is one of the problems

Procurement called
top budget concern

cess, added that ‘‘disregard for con-
flict of interest laws made it difficult
for the DOD to get effective bidding
processes.”’

The discussion panel comprises
seven men who Mollenhoff said he
thinks will present a “good, balanc-
ed’’ discussion of the topic and allow
students to “hear every view of the
procurement problem.”

Among ‘those panelists will be
Undersecretary of the Army James
R. Ambrose, Assistant Secretary of
the Navy Everett Pyatt and US.
Reps. Denny Smith, R-Ore., and
James Kolbe, R-Ariz.

A spokesman for Pyatt, Lt. Col.
Jose Alonzo, said the discussion will
give the Navy a ‘great opportunity to
present its views to a different au-
dience.”’

Alonzo agreed that the procure-
ment issue is the ‘‘most important

Faculty vote to decide

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

The University Council passed a
motion at its April 2 meeting that
may lead to its dissolution. The facul-
ty will have to approve the decision
at its May 5 meeting.

Some confusion resulted from the
UC vote because some members, in-
cluding Executive Committee Presi-
dent John Lewis and Vice President
Andrew Caruthers, thought the UC
had the power to dissolve itself and
didn’t need faculty approval.

According to UC Chairman David
Sprunt, changes have to be made in

 

NEWS BRIEFS

the makeup of the Student Affairs
Committee before the UC can be
disbanded.

Last year’s SAC was given what us-
ed to be the UC’s responsibility of
hearing appeals from the Student
Control Committees and the Inter-
fraternity Council.

SAC is currently made up of the
presidents of the student body, the
Student Bar Association President,
the chairman of the SCC, the presi-
dent of the IFC, the head dormitory
counselor, two deans and _ three
elected faculty members.

The proposed changes would
replace the heads of the IFC, SCC
and the dorm counselors with three

Senft defeats Pyle to become first woman EC member

item as the budget process is being
scrutinized by Congress.”

Alonzo said the ‘‘taxpayer is get-
ting his or her money’s worth
through the Navy,”’ and that all the
bad press the Defense Department
has gotten about $500 hammers and
$700 coffee pots actually only
represents a ‘small percentage”’ of
the spending the department does.

While Alonzo added that the Navy
is “trying to get the most out of its
money,”’ Mollenhoff countered by
saying that ‘‘conflicts of interest be-
tween the defense industries and the
DOD have permeated the whole
system.”

A 10:30 a.m. discussion tomorrow
will inspect the problems in the pro-
curement process, and a 2 p.m. dis-
cussion will exploreX\possible solu-
tions in the future. The public is in-
vited.

UC’s fate

elected members.

At Monday’s EC meeting, Sprunt
said the heads of the SCC and the IFC
now have the power to vote twice on
cases: when they come before their
committees and again when they are
appealed to the SAC. According to
the UC proposal, the SCC chairman
and IFC president would remain on
SAC as non-voting members.

Sprunt said of the UC, ‘‘When it
was first started, it was pretty vital,
but recently it’s had powers dele-
gated away from it.”

Other problems that Sprunt noted
were that ‘‘not too many of the people
on the committee want to be there’’
and ‘‘the committee is too large.”’

 

Staff Reports

 

First-year law student Louise P. Senft defeated
classmate Markham S. Pyle in an election for next
year’s law school Executive Committee representa-
tives, becoming the first woman to serve on the com-
mittee.

Second-year law student James N.L. Humphreys de-
feated incumbent representative William D. Thompson
for the post of third year representative next year.

Second-year student Dayton P. Haigney III of Way-
land, Mass., was elected president of the Student Bar
Association, the official who presides over student body
honor hearings, commonly known as ‘open honor
trials.”’

Senft lives in Lexington with her husband, William W.
Senft, this year’s first-year law representative to the
EC. He did not seek re-election but was voted SBA
treasurer.

Pyle, from Crosby, Texas, graduated from the Com-
merce School in 1984.

Student Bar Association President Julie L. Gregory
declined to release a numerical breakdown of the April
11 runoff vote.

Humphreys, of Wise, Va., graduated from the Com-
merce School in 1984 and was a member of Chi Psi
social fraternity. Thompson, of Boca Raton, Fla.,
graduated from the College in 1984 and was a member
of Phi Kappa Psi.
election results, student

In other second-year

Cartledge of Lexington was voted SBA vice president
and classmate David N. Baker of Baltimore was
elected SBA secretary.

Wendy’s reports sign theft

A sign was taken Sunday from the Wendy’s fast food
restaurant on East Nelson Street. A Wendy's employee
reported that a man who appeared to be a student took
the sign, valued at $100, on his way out of the
restaurant.

Ring-tum Phi editors win awards

Ring-tum Phi Executive Editor Mike Allen and
Sports Editor Mike Stachura recently won two jour-
nalism awards.

Stachura received a $300 scholarship for a sixth-place
award in the Hearst Foundation’s Sportswriting com-
petition. A matching grant has also been awarded to
Washington and Lee.

Allen won second place in the spot news category at
the Society of Professional Journalists’ Region 2 Con
ference last weekend.

Former senator to teach at W&L

Former U.S. Sen. William B. Spong Jr. will teach a
course next fall on the subject of law and society with
special attention to legal ethics

The seminar, which will be open to juniors and
seniors, will cover such topics as the history and

de ‘opment of professional codes for lawyers, exter-
nal pressures on the American legal profession and
alternatives to adversary systems for resolving
disputes.

Spong retired this year from the deanship of the
Marshall-Wythe School of Law at William and Mary. He
was appointed dean in 1976 following a career of public
service in the Virginia House of Delegates and the U.S.
Senate.

He has taught at the Woodrow Wilson Center of the
University of Virginia School of Law and at the Univer-
sity of Richmond, and he serves on the Board of Visitors
of the U.S. Air Force Academy and the Naval Academy

A graduate of Hampden-Sydney College and the Uni-
versity of Virginia, he is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
the Order of the Coif, Phi Alpha Delta, and Phi Kappa
Alpha.

SAB to show rafting slides

A slide presentation on whitewater rafting will be
shown tonight as a preview to the Student Activities
Board’s May 4 rafting trip, which can be signed up for
at the presentation.

Thomas Wagner, general manager of North Ameri
can River Runners, which will guide the rafters on their
trip down the New River, will make the presentation
tonight at 7 in the Student Center.

The normally $68-per-person trip will cost $44 per per
son and is open to anyone. Senior John McCaffery, who
is organizing the trip with the SAB, said about 20 people
have expressed interest in the trip, and a tentative limit

of 35 has been set, although that could be increased to 70
if there is enough interest.

Interested students must attend tonight's slide show
to pay a deposit fee, McCaffery said.

A bus will leave for the New River at 7:30 a.m., Sun
day, May 4, and will return around 9 p.m. Lunch will be
provided, as will wet suits if the water is cold. Kegs will
be offered after the rafting. No rafting experience is
necessary.

Eight-person rafts will make the 15-mile trip down the
New River with one professional guide per raft

Seniors receive ROTC honors

Art Kandarian, a senior from Cumberland, R.1., was
awarded the university saber as the recipient of the
Washington and Lee Corps of Cadets Outstanding Cadet
Award as elected by the members of W&L’s ROTC unit

Kandarian received the saber from University Presi
dent John D. Wilson during the annual ROTC Presi
dent’s Day Awards Ceremony in Lee Chapel on Wednes
day, April 2

Senior Ken Lindeman of Atlanta, Ga., won the Major
Ronald O. Scharnberg Memorial Award, presented to
the cadet who most nearly typifies the Washington and
Lee tradition of the citizen-soldier-scholar. The award
is presented in memory of Maj. Ronald Oliver Scharn
berg, a 1963 W&L graduate who was killed in action

Senior P.J. lerardi of Philadelphia, Pa., received the
George C. Marshall ROTC Award as the cadet who de
monstrates the leadership and scholastic qualities that
epitomized Gen. Marshall's career

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

Worldwide
discussion
to air here

 

Staff Report

 

A former member of the National
Security Council, the director
general of the International Atomic
Energy Agency and a defense ad-
viser to the British government will
be among the panelists in five coun-
tries for a live, satellite video con-
ference that will be shown at Wash-
ington and Lee Saturday.

The program, which was organized
by The Christian Science Monitor in
an effort to identify and discuss “the
major issues confronting mankind in
the remainder of the 20th century,”
can be seen from 1 to 4 p.m. in the
Northen Auditorium of the Universi-
ty Library.

Called ‘‘The Role of the Broadcast
Media in Reporting Major World
Issues,” the symposium will include
presentations on East-West rela-
tions, terrorism, relations between
the two hemispheres and the impact
of technology on the future.

Following the satellite program, a
discussion will be moderated by
Journalism Professor John K. Jen-
nings, the chairman of the Jour-
nalism and Communications Depart-
ment, which is sponsoring the pre-
sentation.

Anchoring the video conference
from Boston are Rob Nelson, the
Monitor's editor of television broad-
casting; Earl Foell, the Monitor’s
editor in chief; Richard Nennemann,
the Monitor’s director of publishing;
and John Parrot, the Monitor’s ex-
ecutive producer of radio broadcast-
ing.

From Vienna, “The East-West
Confrontation” will be discussed by:
Elizabeth Pond, the Monitor’s Bonn
correspondent and author of a book
on the Soviet Union, where she for-
merly was stationed; Dr. Hans Blix,
director general of the International
Atomic Energy Agency; and Richard
C. Hottelet, long-time CBS News
United Nations correspondent.

From Ditchley Park, England,
‘Ambient Violence, Low-Level Con-
flicts and Terrorism” will be covered
by: David Winder, the Monitor’s
United Kingdom correspondent; Lin-
coln Bloomfield, political science
professor at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology and former
deputy assistant secretary of state
and former member of the National
Security Council; and Brigadier Ken-
neth Hunt, defense commentator for
the British Broadcasting Corporation
and defense adviser to the British
government.

In Brasilia, Brazil, ‘‘Relations Be-
tween Countries of the Northern and
Southern Hemispheres”’ will be the
topic for: David Willis, the Monitor’s
senior international television cor-
respondent and former Monitor
Third World correspondent, and
Georgie Anne Geyer, a syndicated
columnist, ‘‘Washington Week in
Review” panelist and former cor-
respondent in Asia, Latin America
and Africa.

And Kyoto, Japan, will be the site
for a discussion on “‘The Uses and
Misuses of Science and Technology”’
among: Takashi Oka, a Monitor
overseas correspondent stationed in
Tokyo and formerly based in Peking,
Moscow, Paris and London; former
NBC News correspondent Edwin
Newman; Eugene Skolnikoff, MIT
political science professor and direc-
tor of the school’s Center for Interna-
tional Studies and former White
House science policy adviser; and
Tokyo University sociology professor
Chie Nakane.

Private Counseling
(2 blocks from campus)

relationships
work overload

Call for information

Lorae L. McDonald, L.C.S.W.

7 463-4927 or
i 348-5020

i
: Stress management
4

 

NOW

J

 

 

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Students in the recent phonathon attend a thank-you party

Contributions above average
yet lagging behind leaders.

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

The percentage of Washington and
Lee alumni who contribute to the
University’s Annual Fund lags
behind schools recognized as leading
the nation in alumni contribution
rates as well as at two neighboring
women’s colleges. But W&L’s par-
ticipation rate is still above the na-
tional average, according to W&L
development officials.

In any single year, an average of 38
‘percent of W&L alumni make a con-
tribution to the Annual Fund. An
advertisement in the Janu-
uary/February issue of the alumni
magazine lists eight schools with
over 50 percent contribution rates.
Five of those had percentages over
60.

Of the other schools listed, the
percentages of alumni contributing
to similar funds ranged from a low of
52 percent at Middlebury College to
Williams College’s high of 66 percent.
Also included were Amherst, Bow-
doin, Hamilton, Pomona and Swarth-
more colleges and Wesleyan Univer-
sity. ;

The Annual Fund accounts for
about 10 percent of the University’s
operating budget that pays for day-
to-day expenses. Money in the fund
comes from contributions not only
from alumni, but also from parents
and friends of the University.

Mollenhoff studies Soviet media

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

While the rest of us were sunning in
Florida or sitting at home with the
parents, Journalism Professor Clark
R. Mollenhoff spent the break in a
different climate — the Soviet Union,
where he was part of a group looking
into the role of the news media there.

“Everyone should plan a trip to
Russia before April 15, because then
you'll pay your taxes willingly,’’ jok-
ed Mollenhoff, who returned from his
12-day trip on April 14.

Although the climate in the Soviet
Union is as cold temperature-wise as
it is for a free press, Mollenhoff said
he thinks the system has become a
little more open in recent years.

Mollenhoff visited Russia as a
member of the Georgetown Group,
an international organization of
editors, publishers and reporters,
most of whom are politically conser-
vative.

Other members of the group in-
cluded former U.S. ambassador
Douglas MacArthur II and former
Washington governor Dixie Lee Ray,
as well as various television and
print journalists from several coun-
tries.

Mollenhoff is a former Pulitzer
Prize-winning investigative reporter
for The Des Moines Register.

The Georgetown Group met in

 

Drugs

 

0 Continued from Page 1

a situation for which they: were un-
prepared.

Mann said later that motions such
as Read’s and one Mann made ear-
lier in the day are more common in
district court, where proceedings are
less formal than they are in higher
courts.

depression
anxiety
loneliness

BEING

= ACCEPTED

  

FPO 0 0 DD ao

for

Moscow with the heads of the Soviet
news agency Tass, the newspaper
Pravda and Moscow Radio and TV.

The group also spoke with
American officials at the embassy in
Moscow, traveled to Leningrad for
discussions with American officials
there, and traveled to Tbilisi, the
capital of Soviet Georgia near the
Caspian Sea. Mollenhoff was escort-
ed by a travel guide at all times,
though he could have traveled by
himself.

Mollenhoff was in the Soviet Union
for one month in 1961 and thinks that
“things had improved just a little
bif.”’

He also thinks new Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev has not really af-
fected the system there.

“Gorbachev has changed the
rhetoric, but his basic goals and
views are the same. He came out of
the system. He is, though, a little
more open, a little more articulate.”

This new openness, Mollenhoff
thinks, is reflected in the fact that
Soviet media leaders will now talk
openly with the Western press. This
represents ‘‘a step forward.”

The Soviet journalists, including
one man introduced as ‘‘the Russian
Walter Cronkite,” openly admit that
their country has no freedom of the
press, says Mollenhoff.

“They view their role as an in-
strumentality for the government,
and they feel a responsibility to help

Mann entered a motion to suppress
evidence obtained by the Lexington
Police Department in what Mann
said was a “warrantless search”’ of
the apartment of Michaud and Cul-
nane. Mann said Hess agreed to hear
that motion as part of the prelimi-
nary hearing.

Lexington police officers had
several bags in court Tuesday con-
taining evidence in the case that
earlier had been identified as a
plastic bag containing less than half
an ounce of marijuana and drug par-

FED EE ED ED 0 ED ED ED) EP () EP () ED)

-Students-

Don't forget your moms on their
Gift boxes
homemade candies (1 lb.) can be
sent to your mom and arrive in
time for Mother’s Day along with
a card signed by you. May 2nd is
the last day to order.

special day.

| | | | | | EM

make its programs work. This means
not criticizing, but praising every
program to keep up public morale.”

This is exactly opposed to the
American media’s view of their duty,
says Mollenhoff.

“These people are not lacking in in-
telligence, but they have seen that to
rise in the system, there is one line to
take and anything else would be self-
destructive and futile.”’

As an example of the party line,
Mollenhoff noted that his tour guide
in Tbilisi announced that Svetlana
Alliluyeva, former Soviet leader
Josef Stalin’s daughter, who return-
ed to the Soviet Union in 1984 after 17
years in the United States, gwas
perfectly happy in Russia and living
with her family. Only a few days
later, though, Alliluyeva returned to
the West, partly, she said, because
she was unable to get along with her
family.

As for the conditions in Russia,
Mollenhoff noted, ‘“‘You don’t see
anyone who is spontaneously happy,
except for the children. Leningrad is
a little more relaxed than Moscow,
and Tbilisi is a great deal more relax-
ed .... There you would even see a few
smiles.”’

Mollenhoff says the insights he
gained from the trip will be used in
his classes, and as background for a
book he is currently writing on the
British press.

aphernalia, which police have said
includes ‘‘a couple of bongs and a
couple of pipes.”

No date was set Tuesday for the
continuation of the preliminary hear-
ing, which was postponed twice from
the original date of February.

The misdemeanor charge of mari-
juana possession carries a possible
penalty of up to 12 months in jail, a
fine of up to $1,000, or both.

Cocaine possession carries a max-
imum penalty of 10 years in jail.

of

463-8602 - Anne
463-8604 - Lucy

ge A << A am <a am <a

 

“Participation is not poor. It’s
above average,’ said Carter
McNeese, author of the ad and direc-
tor of the Annual Fund. “It’s not
where we want it to be. We have one
of the better alumni funds in the
country and we are on the threshold
of being one of the best.”’

Calling W&L an “ambitious and
competitive school,’ Farris Hot-
chkiss, director of development,
said, “In our minds, we are the
academic peers of the schools listed
in the ad .... We are challenging our
alumni to support Washington and
Lee in percentages similar to the
schools listed.”’

Comparisons with surrounding
private colleges show W&L trailing
Sweet Briar College and Randolph-
Macon Woman's College. Both had
participation rates in the middle 50s.
W&L ranked higher than Roanoke
College and Mary Baldwin College.
Figures for Hollins College, Hamp-
den-Sydney College and Lynchburg
College were unavailable.

Nationally, Washington and Lee
ranks above average for all private
schools. Figures compiled by the
Council for Financial Aid to Educa-
tion for 1983-84 show that the national
average is 20 percent. For schools of
similar size, the national percentage
is 27.

In terms of average gift, W&L
alumni donated an average of $215.

Manie i Hain
Only Hairstylist to

accept the Colonnade
Card

ee
PUKE el

 

Robin ¢ Peggy ¢ Marie « Sherry

Nationally, the average gift was
about $113. The gift at schools of
similar size averaged $112.

Hotchkiss warned that participa- |

tion figures are not the best ones to

make comparisons with because of ,

differences in just whom each schoo]
solicits. W&L solicits almost all its

alumni. Other schools, for various -

reasons, do not.

“The participation thing is

something that can be manipulated.” °

he said.

This year, contributions and the ,

number of donors participating in the
Annual Fund are headed toward a
record. As of Monday, the fund stood
at $1.25 million, about $210,000 ahead

of last year. The number of donors is _'

up by about 700, to 5,122.

That money has been solicited by
class agents, alumm who volunteer
to raise money from their class-
mates. The recently completed stu-
dent phonathon raised $125,700, up 13
percent from last year. With the fund
drive nearing its June 30 deadline
and $1.4 million goal, a direct mail
campaign will begin soon.

Increases in the numbers of givers
and in total gifts indicate that this
year will “undeniably represent pro-
gress toward our goal’’ of joining the
nation’s best, Hotchkiss said.

He is convinced that the most cru-
cial factor in fund-raising is the loy-
alty of alumni, he said.

Sigler

463-9588
Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

 

For Rent
Large House In The Country
Call

463-2518
Contacts!

Check our Replacement Costs.

THE NEW OPTICIANS INC.

Lexington’s ONLY Licensed Optician

203 N. Main
463-7440

College Square
In March

 

 

 

 

   
   

NEED Lito 103-463-1670
? sJ ‘
A CAR? | Utktul icbeaie
703-377-6331
Students under 21
Must Have
prior Insurance
Approval Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

 

 

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

“For your extra pieces of furniture”

463-2742

 

 

 

 

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

Open ‘til midnite

 

editors and business managers of
_ the student publications:

Ring-tum Phi: editor and business manager
Calyx: editor and business manager

Political Review: editor
Ariel: editor

Applications are due in Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center by
noon, Friday, April 25. Applicants
should be available for interviews Sun-
day and Monday, April 27 and 28.

 
~

Ei Ro alia 8,

 

“

&

 

Oil cheaper but not easier to buy

By The Associated Press

 

AUSTIN, Texas — With crude oil prices down to about
$12 or $13 a barrel, why not buy one?

The steep drop in oil prices seems to offer a cut-rate
chance to become a Texas oilman or oilwoman, albeit in
asmall way.

Black gold. Texas tea. Your own barrel of it.

, aa anybody buy a single barrel of oil? Apparently not
or $12.

This is an exercise for people who are, let’s say, oil il-
literate — those who believe that gasoline pumps sprout
where oil has been struck and that leaded and unleaded
gushers are found side-by-side.

The first lesson is that a barrel of oil does not include a
barrel. It is simply a measurement — 42 gallons. Oil is
not loaded into barrels.

“That was something out of the 19th century,” said
John Cassel of the Texas Oil Marketers Association.

So, the first step is to get a barrel.

But, you can’t get into the oil-buying business unless
you sign in at the Texas Railroad Commission as an oil
purchaser.

“You'll probably have to hire a lawyer,” said John
Leonard, an Austin oil producer.

Once you fill out the forms, you have to notify the com-
mission about your intended purchase. Commission
spokesman Brian Schaible said you could either file in
writing or attend the-monthly “‘oil allowable” hearing at
which the big oil companies announce how many thou-
sands of barrels per day they intend to buy.

“The law and our rules say you have to tell us when you
are going to buy oil and how much. If it’s a one-time, one-
barrel thing, we would probably not be overzealous in

rushing out to advise you of your rights,”’ Schaible said.

Step 2 is finding your oil.

Contrary to popular belief among the oil illiterate,
crude is not sold at West Texas roadside stands the way
watermelons are sold in East Texas.

“Really the most practical thing would be to go to a
refinery and buy a barrel before they refine it,’’ Schaible
advised.

Who would be willing to dish up a single barrel?

‘We'd be happy to sell you 100,000 barrels. Would you
like to buy 100,000 barrels?”’ Conoco Inc. spokesman Tom
DeCola replied.

“You could talk to an independent producer but he
wouldn’t have the means of metering one barrel to you. I
would think it would probably cost you a lot more than
$12,”’ said Spencer Falls at JM Petroleum Corp. In
Austin.

Austin producer J.A. Spiller also tried to help.

“To buy one barrel of oil? You can probably buy a bar-
rel from anybody in the field, if the lease is not under con-
tract to sell to somebody else,”’ he said.

Most of it apparently is under contract.

The best advice, from Julian Martin, executive vice
president of the Texas Independent Producers and Roy-
alty Owners Association, was to call a ‘‘reclaimer’’ who
refilters dirty oil, to see about a single barrel. Buying
fresh crude would be a ‘‘rather substantial problem,” he
said.

“It’s going to cost you about $300 to get going with it,”
Martin said.

Charles Ratliff, an Austin oil producer, said the process
could be simple — if you know where to go.

“You go right to the wellhead where they have the big
tanks, stick your barrel under the little spigot and they'll
turn it on,”’ he said.

But he added: ‘‘Nobody would do it for 12 bucks.”

‘advertised
‘Higher Education, Epley said.

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Students who fail a course in the
spring term of their graduating
year are not permitted a re-exam-
ination during that term. Such a
student is entitled to a special ex-
amination during the subsequent
fall session on not more than two
courses. Unless enrolled as a stu-
dent during the subsequent ses-
sion, the student taking such a re-
examination is required to pay a
special fee of $10. The course
grade upon re-examination can-
not exceed “D,” according to
Registrar D. Scott Dittman.

“Bridge Over the River Kwai,”
a 1957 U.S. film, will be shown

 

tonight at 7 o’clock in Room 203 of
Reid Hall. The cinemascope spec-
tacle, a winner of seven Oscars,
has Alec Guinness portraying a
British military leader’s trans-
mogrification of national into per-
sonal strategic goals.

“A Summer To Remember”, a
1960 film from the Soviet Union,
will be shown at 7:30 tomorrow
night in Commerce School Room
327. The film marks the Soviets’
first major ‘‘pure’’ entertainment
film for the foreign market. It
reconstructs social reality from a
five-year-old’s viewpoint as he ad-
justs to difficult changes in family
roles.

The United Daughters of the
Confederacy has two scholarships
available to Washington and Lee
women for $1,000 and $300 for next

CLASSIFIEDS

school year. The $300 scholarship
is also open to men. Applicants
must be lineal descendants of Con-
federate veterans. Information
and applications are available in
the Financial Aid Office in Wash-
ington Hall.

The University Library has
raised its fine for overdue books
that have been recalled from 25
cents a day to $1a day.

FOR RENT

FOR RENT: 2-bedroom duplex
in good condition. Stove and
refrigerator furnished, eat-in kit-
chen. Large closet in living room
and each bedroom. Call Mrs. Dun-
lap - Office-463-8482 or home-
463,7289. Rent-$285.00 monthly.

Lids

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986, Page 5

 

Libya

1 Continued from Page 1

 

justified.

Ferguson said that with the changing world and in-
creased terrorism, the United States has to make a
change in the way it thinks and acts toward terrorism.

“Terrorism is no longer a small faction trying to
sway the local government or to change some minor
issue,”’ he said.

“Terrorism as a whole has fully emerged as a defini-
tive weapon that can enable nations with inferior
military forces to gain a degree of strategic equality
with the world’s major industrial powers,” he said.
“Terrorism is an alternative to the acquisition of
nuclear weapons.”’

He added that despite last week’s attack on Libya,
terrorism will increase and will most likely occur in the
United States itself.

“I think we’re naive to think that it’s not going to hap-
pen in America,” Ferguson said. ‘“‘There’s going to be
more and more.”

Yet, he feels the attack will create a struggle within
Khadafy’s government that will topple him from power.

“In the long term, what we’re hoping for is that
Khadafy’s officers and people within Libya will see that
he is not the great man that he would like to be,”’ he
said. ‘‘The last thing we want to do is kill him — that
was not part of the plan — because then he becomes a
martyr.”

Ferguson said the United States had exhausted all
other possibilities available after support for economic
and diplomatic sanctions against Libya was denied by
many European countries.

Ferguson made it clear that his statements were his

 
  
 

Sony and Sierra Club. Choose your own
hours. Good experience and great money!
For more information call,
1-800-426-5537 9-5 pm.

(West Coast time)

Representative Program
American Passage
500 Third Ave West
Seattle, WA 98119

CHICAGO DALLAS LOSANGELES NEWYORK SEATTLE

SERVIGTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Michelin

 

 

 

 

463-2242

 

 

 

 

Treasurer

 

© Continued from Page 1

were at Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute and State University.
Epley said Wilson was mainly

: responsible for Broomall’s selection.

Besides sound business skills,
: Epley said, a successful treasurer

‘must also be a good personnel man-
ager and be able to ‘‘get along with
‘students, faculty and colleagues.”

“There were 120 people who ap-
‘plied”’ for the position, which was
in The Chronicle of

Five of the candidates were asked

to the campus for interviews with

 

EC

C) Continued from Page 1

 

definite possibility — absolutely.”

“That’s something we want to
avoid, but it’s a fact of life,” he said,
adding that no such charges are be-
ing considered in the Martin case.

“T use the fact of compounding,
misprisioning and obstruction of
justice not as a threat,’ Sutton ad-
ded, ‘‘but rather to emphasize the
seriousness of such acts.”’

The police chief said that other in-
cidents involving the EC in recent
years may have raised similar con-
cerns, but he declined to be specific.

Obstruction of justice is a misde-

meanor carrying a possible penalty :

of a year in jail, a $1,000 fine or both,
and concealing and compounding a
felony are both misdemeanors
punishable by up to six months in
jail, a $500 fine or both.

Lewis said that until this month, if
an honor case carried criminal im-
plications, the student was charged
before authorities were notified ‘‘so
that the policies of the White Book
can be followed closely.”

In the wake of the Martin case,
Lewis said, ‘‘we now turn over the
evidence simulataneously”’ with
charging or as soon thereafter as

possible.

“Tf a law has been broken, when a
student is charged with an honor
violation, copies of all materials are
immediately given to the police after
charging,’’ Lewis explained.

“In many cases, the proper
authorities already know [about a
criminal case] — in many cases, they
come to us,” he continued. ‘‘Usually
when a law has been broken, it’s
brought to our attention by [Univer-
sity or law-enforcement] officials
rather than students.”

Epley, Wilson and several other ad-
ministrators.

Epley called Broomall ‘‘an ex-
perienced, mature person” and said
he will do a good job.

Broomall said he will come to Lex-
ington in mid-June and will work for
several weeks with Epley to get ac-
quainted with the system at W&L.

Broomall said he announced last
fall that he was leaving William &
Mary and was excited when he saw
the opportunity to work at W&L. He
said that after working in several
public institutions, he wanted to
move into the private sector.

Describing himself as ‘‘team-
oriented,’ Broomall said he enjoyed
meeting Epley’s staff and is looking
forward to working with them.

 

» WILLIAM P. MARTIN II

On what basis was the change in
procedure made? “To be perfectly
honest, it was the personal feeling
that I did not want to impede the pro-
gress of our criminal justice sys-
tem,”’ the president said.

“We enjoy an outstanding relation-
ship with the police,’’ Lewis added.
‘‘We have cooperated as fully as
possible, and they in turn have
helped us a great deal. They are ina
much better position because of their
resources to help us out with com-
plicated cases.”

Sutton said police department rela-
tions with the EC indeed are improv-
ing from previous years. ‘‘I think our
communication is getting better, es-
pecially the awareness of each
other’s problems,” he explained.

‘Apparently up until 18 months or
two years ago, we had no communi-
cation at ail,’’ said Sutton, who
became chief in May of 1983. ‘I think
it has improved considerably since
then.”’

Martin, 19, said from his Ohio

home that he withdrew ‘‘for personal

— a a et at

ke ale aS Ea Oe see ae

“T don’t want to upset anything”’ by
altering W&L’s system right away,
he said.

Broomall has his bachelor’s and
master’s degrees from Glassboro
State College and a doctorate in
educational administration from
Virginia Tech.

Broomall worked at Virginia Tech
from 1974 to 1982. Prior to that he was
the registrar at Gloucester County
College in New Jersey and the acting
director of computer services at his
alma mater. He also served six years
in the United States Air Force.

Broomall and his wife, Donna,
have two sons, Jeff, 17, a junior in
high school, and Todd, 11, who is in
fifth grade.

reasons” and that although he has no
plans to return to W&L, he is “‘in the
process of continuing [my] educa-
tion.”

The check, according to the arrest
warrant, was written by Helen J.
Sandridge to Graham L. Moore Jr.,
whose signature Martin is accused of
forging on Jan. 12.

Moore, a Rockbridge County resi-
dent, explained that the check was
for services he rendered this winter
on behalf of his employer, the Maury
River Oil Co., a county heating
business.

When Sandridge continued to be
billed for the job after she had paid,
she submitted her canceled check to
the oil company. “I looked at it; it
had been forged,” Moore said.

The heating firm then contacted
Dominion Bank in Lexington, on
which the check was drawn.

“The only thing I was interested in
was that Maury Oil Co. got their
money,’’ Moore said, adding that the
bill now has been paid.

Sandridge, a Raphine resident,
declined comment on the incident,
and the Dominion branch manager,
Robert W. Meador, said that because
of customer confidentiality, he could
not say how Martin obtained the
check.

Forgery of a check with intent to
defraud is a felony carrying a poten-
tial sentence of one to 10 years in
prison, a fine of up to $1,000 or both.

Meanwhile, Dean of Students
Lewis G. John says the University
has no general policy on handling
disciplinary matters that involve
possible criminal actions, but instead
decides on cases individually.

He said the school does not ‘‘try to
conceal’’ any evidence, and usually
acts “‘after the trial is held so the in-
formation is better available.

“The real question,’’ John added,
“is the timing of it and who should
act first.”

2h mace

precwoesequssesesareseoorssoees

: :

CAMPUS :  ReadThe ;

ADVERTISING REP |} Classifieds

Be responsible for placing advertising | Peeceacscceeccccccocooocccoccoe”
materials on your campus bulletin boards.
Work on exciting marketing programs for
clients such as American Express, AT & T,

 

1 St. » Suite 1-C
NY. NY 10023 - (212) 769-1170

x Alignment x
* Brakes «
* Radiator Repairs «x
* Swim Tubes «

Hileman Tire & Radiator
Lexington Herdwere 536 E. Nelson St

463-2146 : |

views and not necessarily the opinions of the ROTC
department or the U.S. Army.

Politics Professor Milton Colvin contends that
although the attack may have been a blunder in terms
of world opinion, the United States should have done
more damage to military bases in Libya

Colvin said the United States is hurting itself political-
ly by taking action which displeases its European allies
under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

“The first goal of the Soviet Union is to separate
America off from its European allies,’ Colvin said
“Therefore, every policy position in the United States
should avoid playing into the Russian hands.”’

“The decision to attack may have been the wrong
decision because it runs the risk of further alienating
our European allies,’’ Colvin said.

“On the other hand, you can’t become so totally host-
age to European allies that you are unable to move,”’ he
added. ‘You cannot surrender your sovreignty, nor can
you surrender your manueverability to an alliance.”

Colvin added that although the United States should
not single out Khadafy for assassination, there should
be increased strikes against military bases in Libya. If
Khadafy is killed in one of these attacks, he said, that
would be a consequence of the action.

“I wish we had gone in with more force and destroyed
the bases and killed Khadafy,”’ Colvin said.

Colvin said the air raid on Libya will increase ter-
rorism because ‘‘terror begets terror, violence begets
violence.”’

“T would think it’s fairly likely that we will see some
sort of terroristic activity against Americans in Europe
or perhaps right here at home,”’ he added.

“I believe that the president was justified in doing
what he did,”’ Colvin concluded.”’ “‘I believe probably it
was the best thing he could do, even though I think we
will get more terrorism rather than less terrorism,”’ he
said.

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Spring Shoes
25% OF F

B.F. Goodrich Through Saturday

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PLUS $400

It’s Easy To Qualify

@ You must receive at least a
bachelor’s degree or a state RN
license between October 1,
1985 and September 30, 1986.

@ You must have verifiable
employment that begins within
120 days of your qualifying
vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary liv-
ing expenses and your vehicle
payment.

@ Your credit record, if you

have one, must indicate pay-
ment made as agreed.

Cougar

Ford Motor
Credit

Ford

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Viste

Company

 

 

GRADUATES

COURTESY

Ford ¢ Mercury
HAS YOUR

PRE-APPROVED
CREDIT FROM
FORD CREDIT

THE PURCHASE OF A NEW FORD

These Vehicles Are

Included In The Plan

Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird

Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II,
Ranger, F-150 & F-250

Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri,

The amount of your pre-
approved credit is determined

    

Mercury

 

TOWARD

by the qualifying vehicle you buy,
and you are eligible for the $400
directly from Ford even if you
don’t finance your purchase.
Make your best deal and you can
use the $400 toward your down
payment or get a check from
Ford after the purchase or lease.

Hurry. If a vehicle is not in
dealer stock it must be ordered
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of
all vehicles must be taken by
August 31, 1986. See your par-
ticipating dealer for complete
program details.

  

 

261-2112
DL 1916

 

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

Lax flip flops;
top D-III foe next

 

By DAVID EMRICH
\ssistant Sports Editor

 

Washington and Lee lacrosse was
in a good mood heading into exams
and its spring break schedule of three
games

It took them until the end of break
before the Generals got back in that
good mood, as W&L lost two of three
games to put its record at 5-4

When last we spoke, the Generals
had just trounced our Lexington
neighbors, VMI, by the score of 20-2.
lhe victory put the Generals’ record
at 4-3, and head coach Dennis Daly
felt the team was playing very well.

At that point, every W&L student
was stocking up on suntan lotion and
finalizing their travel itinerary. Well,
almost everyone

The Generals’ spring athletes
spent their break not in some exotic
location improving their tan, but
rather in the familiar surroundings
of Lexington, Virginia improving
their games

W&L’s first contest, against the
Virginia Lacrosse Club, was played
on April 12, 10 days after the
Generals’ defeat of VMI. The Gen-
erals lost the contest 11-9, but it did
not count toward the season’s record.

Four days later, W&L traveled to
Ithaca, N.Y., to play the Cornell Big
Red. It was not a pleasant exper-
ience.

Playing in the cold rain, Cornell
scored on nine of their first 11 shots,

and jumped to a 18-0 halftime lead
enroute to a 26-2 trouncing of the
Generals, the worst defeat in W&L
history

But, according to Daly, the game
was not without its bright spots. He
pointed out that the teams played
evenly in the third quarter

After the disappointment in Ithaca,
it must have felt good to return to the
security of Wilson Field, where the
Generals are 4-1 this year. Make that
5-1.

W&L rebounded from the Cornell
loss ina convincing manner, blowing
out Radford, 21-2, on Saturday.

This win marked the third time this
season that the Generals have defeat-
ed their opponent by a margin of 18
goals or more, the other two being
the 28-1 thrashing of Virginia Tech,
and the VMI victory.

On Saturday, the Generals face the
Shoremen of Washington College to
begin a tough four-game stretch
against ranked teams from both
Division I and Division III.

The Shoremen are ranked No. 2 in
Division III and hold an 8-3 record.
But a closer look tells just how tough
this team could be for the Generals.

Of the three losses that Washington
College has suffered, two have been
to Division I foes. They lost to No. 1-
ranked Johns-Hopkins and No. 6-
ranked Navy. The third loss was to
the No. 1 ranked team in Division III,
Hobart, a 16-13 winner over Division
I’s second-ranked team.

Last year, at Chestertown, Md., the
Generals lost 14-13 in double over-
time, reportedly one of the most ex-
citing games in which the Generals
have ever been involved.

 

 

|
|
|

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

Valerie Pierson returns forehand in yesterday’s match

Track: another title?

3y ROB MacPHERSON
staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee track
eam, which came into this season as
hree-time Old Dominion Athletic
‘onference indoor champions, will
1ead to Roanoke College on Saturday
n an attempt to duplicate its winter
»erformance outdoors.

In preparation for the ODACs, the
yenerals competed in two non-con-
erence meets, the Mt. St. Mary’s
telays on April 19 and the Division II
ind Ill meet metween Virginia
schools at Hampton University on
\pril 12.

Individuals who placed at the Mt.
st. Mary’s meet were Jim McLaugh-
in (second in the discus) and Tom
Murray (sixth in the shot put). The
nile relay team took sixth place with

time of 3.25.2, the best time in the
)DAC this season.

At the Division II and III meet, the
Generals experienced more _in-
dividual success. Of the 11 W&L
representatives, six scored.
McLaughlin and Murray again plac-
ed, taking second in the discus and
fourth in the shot, respectively. John
Carder was third in the pole vault
and teammate Rob Williamson was
fourth in the same event. Richard
Moore placed fourth in the 1500.

The Generals will go into Satur-
day's ODAC Championships _ less
than healthy. Injuries to Bill
Rhinehart and John Burlingame,
while not debilitating, will leave the
team at less than 100 percent. Both
Rhinehart and Burlingame said they
expect to compete.

Aldridge called the meet a ‘‘toss-
up,”’ but said that he likes W&L’s
chances. He added that Lynchburg
and Bridgewater are also capable of
taking the title.

 

cn

 

W&L’s John Ware shoots past Radnor goalie Tony Salamone

Southern trip readies women for ODACs

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

After training for a week at Hilton
Head, S.C., the Washington and Lee
women’s! tennis team finished its
regular season by’ splitting a pair of
matches this week.

W&L’s record now stands at 3-8
overall and 1-8 in the conference.

Yesterday, W&L defeated South-
ern Seminary for the second time this
season to earn its third win of the
year. The Lady Generals downed
Southern Seminary, 6-3.

The win offset Monday’s loss to

Bridgewater, in which the women
were shutout, 9-0.

The Lady Generals had faced
Bridgewater earlier this season at
the Emory and Henry Invitational
and despite losing 7-2 they avoided
the shutout. Head coach Bill Wash?

burn explained that the team might:

have been a bit too tired from their
tough spring break practice shcedule
to match the performance that they
registered earlier this season.
Although last week might have
temporarily slowed the Generals on
Monday, Washburn described last
week as “‘perfect.’’ Washburn said
that his players ‘‘got up early, work-

 

Jim McLaughlin is not short on effort in discus

 

 

ed hard, and really did a good job.”

“T can tell that a lot of people im-
proved,”’ said the team’s No. 1 sin-
gles player Bitsy Hopper, referring
to progress that she and her team-
mates made last week.

After waking up at 6 a.m. the team
was running on the beach by 6:45 and
on the courts by 7:15. Following
breakfast, a tennis pro offered in-
struction and drilled the team. Wash-
burn said the women are now using
many of these drills in their daily
practices.

Rain forced the cancellation of the
Generals’ scheduled match against
Armstrong College in Savannah, Ga.

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

The team, however, did play several
pick up matches against area play-
ers,

While Hopper admits that the in-
tense training has boosted the team’s
confidence, neither she nor Wash-
burn say that they can accurately
predict how the team will perform
this weekend at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament this
weekend at Hollins College.

Washburn did say that he does not
expect the tournament committee to
seed any of his players but he
believes that the women will play
better at the tournament than their
season record indicates.

Linksters take second, win match,
on a roll as ODAC tourney nears

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

With the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament just around
the corner, the Washington and Lee
men’s golf team had some impres-
sive performances this past week.

The Generals began their prepara-
tions for the ODAC championships
with a second-place tie in the George-
town Hoya Open over the weekend.
W&L finished in a tie with ODAC
rival Randolph-Macon. Both. schools
finished with two-day totals of 647,
six strokes behind the winner,
George Washington. Roanoke,
Lynchburg and Bridgewater — all
ODAC squads — finished 15, 36 and 77
strokes behind the Yellow Jackets
and Generals.

W&L was led during the weekend
by John Gammage’s two-round total
of 158 and Chip Gist’s 160.

‘“‘We were happy with the way we

played, especially coming off of the
break,’’ head coach Buck Leslie said.
“It was just a super golf course.”’

The Generals continued their fine-
tuning by easily defeating Bridge-
water 322-334 yesterday on the road.

According to Leslie, it was ‘‘not a
good scoring day’’ due to the temper-
atures, but this did not deter W&L.
Captain Greg Wheeler and Gist (79)
tied for scoring honors as the
Generals gained even more momen-
tum going into next week’s all-impor-
tant championship.

“That’s been our goal all season
long, to win the ODACs, and although
at the start of the season I didn’t
think we could do it, I feel we have a
chance,”’ Leslie said.

The tournament will be next Mon-
day and Tuesday at the Ivy Hill Golf
Club in Lynchburg.

“Golf's a streaky game, and right
now I feel that with the way we are
playing, we have a shot at winning it

 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY, BOX 96, B12 IVES, ITHACA, NY 14853

Cornell

University
has a place for you
this summer.

Wonderful courses, great professors, magnificent
environment, people from everywhere

lots of good things happening

Name
Address
?

City/State/Zir

(

 

come enjoy it all

607/255-4987

 

 

17 S. Main St.

 

  

(763) 463-2323

 

 

cicddacddacaaadadadaaaacaaacadadacacaaadddddde

 

Wdciacidthcccdieccccccrecceecdccccccdeddacecdcacaaccccdccdaccaadaaacecacddcccccacccdccdcdddd de>

Wn

Z

Self Defense
For Women

Saturday, May 3
10 AM- 12 NOON

$20.00

Common Sense

Self Defense Seminar
with

THE BODY SHOP

648 Waddell Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
To Register:
463-5852
Monday - Friday
After 3 PM

Acddddsdchitibdbdditdddddddddddddadiaaadaadiadddddddaaadaaaaaaddddaccaddddadaacdaaddddddddadaadadddddaddddddi

         

       
     
        
          

   

WELLL ea

WE

WV eaaaaccacacaiaddia

   

WZ

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, luncn
and dinner for over

_ _ 0 years
Main Street, Lexington

463-3612

 

 

 

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

 

* -—

_

tt lh

ili

il \
 

  

wn

Nip

“gg

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986, Page 7

 

 

Sl

2

 

By LEIF UELAND

‘eI Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee tennis
team gave further evidence this past

= 4 week on its annual trip to Florida
i

that the Generals are an improved
team from a year ago, and they will
be a team to be contended with at the
national tournament.

The Generals, whose record now
stands at 13-7, have moved up in the
Division III national rankings, jump-
ing up to No. 5in the latest poll.

In Florida last week, W&L routed
both Stetson and the University of
Central Florida by 9-0 margins. The
Generals’ third win came in their 7-2
victory over the Florida Institute of
Technology.

The losses for the Generals came

..| from National Association of Inter-

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

, W&L No. 2 singles player Roby Mize launches into a serve

*®

“~

“

”

%

~,

 

So

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

In shape?

ROTC sponsors
May triathlon

The third annual Washington and
Lee Triathlon, sponsored by the W&L
Army ROTC department, has been
set for Saturday, May 17, Armed
Forces Day.

The triathlon, which features a
three-quarter mile swim in W&L’s Cy
Twombly Pool, a 13-mile bike ride,
and a 3.1-mile run, will begin at 9
a.m. In case of rain, the triathlon will
be rescheduled for Saturday, May 24.

The triathlon is open to all mem-

collegiate Athletics power Flagler
(5-4) and Division II Rollins (6-3).

In the tight match with Flagler, the
NAIA’s seventh-ranked team, W&L
was unable to get the fifth win, which
would have given the Generals the
overall victory. Both sophomore
Chris Wiman at No. 4 and the No. 1

doubles team of sophomores David .

McLeod and Jack Messerly came up
short in three-set losses.

Against Rollins, a squad that
defeated W&L last year by an #-!
score, wins in singles came from
freshman Bobby Matthews at No. 3
(0-6, 6-3, 6-4) and Messerly at No. 5
(6-3, 5-7, 6-3). The Generals third vic-
tory came from the No.’ 2 doubles
team of Matthews and junior Roby
Mize.

Though head coach Gary Franke
expressed disappointment over the
close losses, he said, ‘I thought we
got some good individual play. We
had super performances from Jack
Messerly, who went 5-0 on the trip,
and Bobby Matthews, who went 4-1.”’

Messerly commented on _ the
team’s two losses, ‘‘We were in both
matches and we definitely could have
beaten Flagler. Last year we weren't
even in the match with Rollins — this
year we definitely were.”

On Wednesday, the Generals de-
feated Division I George Mason, 8-1,
a team that handed W&L a 6-3 defeat
a year ago. No. 1 singles player
McLeod suffered the only individual
loss.

In addition to the team’s No. 5 na-
tional ranking, singles players
McLeod, Mize and Matthews were
placed among the top 50 Division III
players. McLeod is 16th, Mize is 36th
and Matthews is 45th.

» ‘Disappointed’

EMC loss clouds baseball playoff picture

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
squad dropped a 7-6 decision to
Eastern Mennonite yesterday in Har-
risonburg and in the process may
have also lost its chance at a home-
field berth in the upcoming Old
Dominion Athletic Conference play-
offs. ,

The loss drops the Generals to 6-8
in the conference, 6-11-1 overall, and
basically tarnished the effects of
Saturday’s doubleheader sweep of
Maryville, one of W&L’s best outings
of the year.

The Maryville wins came after a
pair of close defeats conference-
leading earlier in the week (a 7-6 loss
to ODAC No. 2 team Lynchburg and a
6-4 loss to conference leader Bridge-
water) and put W&L in fourth place
in the ODAC,

A victory over Eastern Mennonite
would have guaranteed the Generals
the home-field advantage for the first

round of the ODAC championships.

The Generals must now await the
outcome of Saturday’s Emory and
Henry-Hampden-Sydney twinbill to
determine whether they will still
finish fourth. A win in one of the
games by Emory and Henry will
keep W&L in fourth place.

Head coach Jim Murdock was un-
derstandably frustrated by the loss to
EMC. “We're very upset and disap-
pointed,’’ he said. ‘‘We hit the ball
well enough to win, but not when we
needed to.”’

The Generals amassed 14 hits
against the Royals but stranded a

staggering 15 runners on base, leav- ~

ing the bases loaded twice. Murdock
also blamed poor defense for the loss.

Carter Steuart was tagged with the
loss for the Generals.

Bill Schoettelkotte led the
Generals’ scoring punch with a two-
run homer.

The W&L loss was a surprise in
light of last weekend’s events against
Maryville. Eric Acra picked up the
win in the first game of the double-
header with the Scots. Steuart, play-
ing centerfield, contributed two hits
to the W&L cause and also scored the
winning run. Steuart was just as
strong on defense, throwing out the
tying run at the plate.

Chris Cunningham picked up the
save for W&L.

In Game 2, Schoettelkotte hurled
the Generals’ first shutout of the
season, a 3-0 whitewashing. The win
raised his record to 3-3. Shortstop
Harry Halpert and third baseman
Milam Turner each picked up a pair
of hits for W&L. Tom Mack added a
run-saving, diving catch in right field
to preserve the shutout.

Murdock assessed the Generals’
chances at the upcoming ODAC tour-
nament in this way: ‘‘We’ll have to
regroup and be ready for whatever
happens. We know we can beat any-
body in the conference.”

Here’s two chances to prove it

bers of the Lexington, Washington
and Lee and Virginia Military In-
stitute communities. Each partici-
pant must bring one support person
with him or her in order to compete.

A non-refundable registration fee
of $8 for students and $10 for adults is
due on or before May 6. Applications
can be picked up at the Warner Cen-
ter or the ROTC building at Washing-
ton and Lee.

All participants will receive a
Washington and Lee Triathlon T-
shirt and all finishers will earn a cer-
tificate. Division awards will be
presented to the top man and woman
in each category.

 

 

    
  

  

ve you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-160.

18 Va. locations to ser

  

‘

 

 

 

 

   

Cancer Run ’86
set for Sunday

The American Cancer Society’s
Cancer Run ’86, which includes races
of five kilometers, 10 kilometers, and
a one-mile fun run/walk, is set to
begin on Sunday. Registration for the
event, billed as “‘A Run with George
Cunningham,” will be at noon that
day at Wilson Field.

The fee is $6 for the five-kilometer
or the 10-kilometer run; there is no
cost for the fun run/walk. The run
will be held rain or shine.

The ‘“‘fun run/walk” will begin at
1:30 at the W&L Law School and will
run a half mile down the Woods
Creek Trail and back to the Law
School.

The five- and 10-kilometer races
will begin at 1:45 at the Law School
and will cover the Woods Creek trail,
some paved roads through Lexing-
ton, the W&L campus, and the Vir-
ginia Military Institue post, and will
finish at Wilson Field.

Maps and information for the
Cancer Run 86 are available from
Patti Ryan-Mandel at 463-9432 or Jim
Dittrick at 463-3779.

In doubles, the W&Ll teams of
McLeod-Messerly and Mize-Mat-
thews are ranked 15th and 22nd,
respectively.

This weekend the Generals wiil
serve as host for the 10th Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference tennis
championships. The Generals. who
have won six of the nine previous con-
ference crowns, are the defending
champions, having won eight of nine
flights at Lynchburg a year ago.

=| Netmen look for second straight title;

W&L returns four singles cham-
pions: McLeod, Messerly, Mize and
captain Scott Adams. Also, all four
plus Wiman were part of champion
doubles teams.

“We hope to be successful in all

uights, Framle said.

The preliminary rounds will take
place Friday and the semi-final and
final round play in all nine flights will
be set for Saturday. Play begins both
days at9a.m.

 

 

Money (again):
the root of evil

....With all the hubbub about how
much Joe College Athlete is getting
paid to attend the university/foot-

 

TIME

 

ball team of his choice, one has to

< OUT. *** wonder why so much of those in the

? sportsworld now are praising the
: prize money that the Boston Athletic

y - _. Association paid to its winners and

 

 

various runners-up in Monday's
Boston Marathon.

One has to wonder what purpose the word ‘‘amateur’”’ serves today,
when the International Olympic Committee is content to classify ten-
nis players under the age of 21 as ‘‘amateurs.”’

One has to wonder — when Rob de Castella waltzes off with 60 grand
and a new Mercedes for running a race that used to be run for little
more than a laurel wreath and a pot of baked beans — if the amateur
athlete is dead as far as international competition is concerned.

What’s the big deal? you ask. We all know these guys and ladies
were getting all sorts of payoffs under the table. Why not legitimize the
questionable practice?

The Boston Athletic Association had been belligerent about not of-
fering prize money for its amateur race. But that feistiness got a reali-
ty come-uppance when everybody in the marathoning world began to
forego Beantown for London or Chicago or Los Angeles, international
marathons that were offering the big bucks.

Quoted in Monday’s Washington Post, BAA administrator Guy
Morse said the pressure to switch rather than fight became too great.

“There were signs out there — the [elite] athletes weren’t coming
here. There was media pressure. I think if everybody [in the BAA] had
their druthers and the world was the way it once was, there wouldn't
be prize money.”

‘But there was just no way.”’

I’m going to have to be the misguided dreamer and say that it’s a
crying shame that Mr. Morse and the BAA thought there was just no
way, or rather not because they thought that, but because amateur
prize money is the only way it can be.

Somewhere along the way amateur sports — just like sports in
general — has become a bit too self important. Somehow the old
athletes were better athletes. Sure they couldn’t run as fast or jump as
high. But then they didn’t need to have someone dangle a Mercedes 190
in front of them just to get them to show up ata race.

Now, I’m not saying everything was sweetness and light in the old
days. But the athletes then were something more akin to what we all
used to call amateur athletes than anything Rob de Castella could ever
be. Can you imagine de Castella having to work at a steel mill just to
afford his sport? Yet, that’s how it used to be.

My point is that the change in attitude that allowed the Chicago Big
Bucks Marathon to exist and others to follow suit — thus establishing
marathon-running as a legitimate occupation for the 1980s career man

or woman — is a detrimental one, detrimental because when one goes
looking for that athlete who’s just competing for the fun of it, one has
to wonder if such a thing exists independent of the dollar sign
anymore...

....Back home again on the Colonnade, it’s ODAC championships
week for men’s tennis, women’s tennis, track and field, golf and
baseball. I'll be bold and say all but women’s tennis have legitimate
shots at conference crowns, especially given baseball’s late-season
heroics a year ago... The lacrosse debacle in Cornell over break was a
bit scary for this corner. Saturday’s contest with the No. 2 Division III
team in the nation (No. 1, if you disregard the Hobart program, which
may as well be Division I) Washington College should be the best
(read: closest) game of the season. In any case, what happens Satur-
day and during the rest of the season speaks volumes about the future
of lacrosse at W&L....

....Finally, can you help me out on this one? Something called the
Birmingham Stallions is thinking about drafting Heisman Trophy win-
ner Bo Jackson. Oh, now I remember, they’re with that cancelled ABC
mini-series ‘‘The USFL.”’ I knew it was a joke of some kind....

 

 

 

0 Lex talon

ryina.* Q

HISTORIC

COUNTRY
INNS

 

 

Maple Hall

' New Hours
Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00
Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00

NEW EXPANDED MENU
Ala Carte Pricing

Reservations Suggested—

 

CAMP SEAFPARGA

CAMP COUNSELING — for those who love children. Sea
Gull and Seafarer are character and health development
camps on the coast of North Carolina serving children ages
7-16. Recruiting staff for sailing, motorboating, aquatics,
golf, tennis, riflery, archery, canoeing, basketball, lacrosse,
soccer, nature studies, arts and crafts, nursing, office, food
services and horseback riding (Seafarer only). Qualifica-
tions: interest in children, ability to instruct one phase of the
camps’ programs and excellent references. For further in-
formation write to Don Check, Director, Camp Sea Gull
(Boys) or to Judy Bright, Director, Camp Seafarer (Girls),
P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605,

 

 

Call 463-6693

   
    
   
  
  
   

YOUR PARIS APT...
WAITING FOR YOU WHEN YOU
STEP OFF THE PLANE!
™ yout 7ame address & $45 tee

STUDENT HOUSING SERVICE
70 West 71 St + Suite 1-C
NY. NY 10023 - (212) 769-1170

 

 

 

Ap ! Spring - Summer 1986

 

 

LEXINGTON SHOE

 

 

HOSPITAL

Expert Shoe Rebuilding
4

We have a complete
stock of golf shoes and
heels for spring and
summer.

3 W. Nelson St.

‘

   

~~ Tired of Ho-Hum
______. Hairdos?

—— Check out our ‘‘Caper Cuts’ ‘‘Uptown Look’ for men and women. °

Cap er 5

   

Apt Spring - Summer 1986

We'll razor cut it, blunt cut it, taper it, shape it, layer it, undercut it,
bob it, bi-level it and style it just for you.

 

     

 

 

—— Have it your way at Caper’s
———— Shampoo & Cut
-Washington and Lee Students ‘7°

sgeo

 

When Only The
Best Will Do

 

 

 

 

25 N. Main St., Lexington 463-2566

 

 
‘BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

Talk of the Town: Susie Gott, Eddie Adcock, Martha Adcock and Missy Raines

Artist Sally Johnson takes

 

 

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

“Planes and Passages,’ an exhibit
by artist Sally Johnson, will be
featured in the duPont Art Galley un-
til Mav8

Johnson describes her use of large
panels of handmade paper with cop-
per wire configurations as a com-
bination of Western science and
Eastern aesthetics. Her synthesis of
iputer graphic technology and the

it art of handerafting paper

-as the subject of a public television
cumentary, “Tradition, Techno-
iogy and Transformation: Works by
!y Johnson,” that aired through-

 

out her home state of Alabama last
year.

Johnson visited Washington and
Lee Tuesday for a slide presentation
and reception in the duPont audi
torium.

The techniques that Johnson uses
in the crafting of her paper have been
used in Japan for the last 1,300 years.
After receiving a grant from the
University of Alabama at Birming-
ham, she began to apply the modern
art of computer graphics to this an-
cient practice. The result is work that
emphasizes the basic elements of ex-
istence and the harmonious balance
of the universe.

Johnson currently teaches paper-
making and printmaking in her Bir-

‘ast and mixes with West

mingham studio and at the Birm-
ingham Museum of Art. Her work is
included in that museum’s collec-
tions as well as those of Auburn

University, the University of
Alabama and the University of
Arkansas.

Johnson cites the work of Carl G.
Jung and his theories of the collective
unconscious, as well as primitive art
and ancient mythology, as the
strongest influences on her work.

The duPont exhibit will be open
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on

day.

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Nashville-based bluegrass group
Eddie Adcock and Talk of the Town
will be featured at the first Lime Kiln
Spring Festival this Saturday. The
festival will take place at the Lime
Kiln Road near Liberty Hall and will
get underway at noon

In addition to Talk of the Town will
be performers Heinsohn and Day,
Wildgrass and the Spring Group Hell-
benders. Mike Seeger, brother of
legendary folk singer Pete Seeger,
will join the Hellbenders.

The festival is being sponsored by
Lime Kiln Arts, a non-profit organi-
zation dedicated to the promotion of
the arts, and Phi Alpha Delta law fra-
ternity of Washington and Lee. Burr

Saturday and from 2to4p.m.on Sun- ‘This work appears in the duPont Gallery exhibit ‘Planes and Passages’’

Japanese war views featured in film series

 

Staff Reports

 

A series of Japanese films produc-
ed between 1946 and 1968 depicting
the Japanese views of World War II
will be shown during the spring term.
The film series, titled ‘World War II
Through Japanese Popular Films,”
is sponsored by the East Asian
Studies Program and is made possi-
ble by a grant from the Mellon Foun-
dation

The six films, which started Mon-
day and will continue on consecutive

Monday evenings, will be shown at 7
and 9:15 p.m. in Room 327 of the
Commerce School. They are tree to
the public.

The first film, on April 21, was
“Twenty-four Eyes,’ a 1954 film
directed by Keisuke Kinoshita. One
of the most popular of all Japanese
films, ‘Twenty-four Eyes’ chroni-
cled the effects of the restrictions of
government and war on the promis-
ing career of a schoolteacher from an
Inland Sea village.

On April 28, ‘No Regrets for Our
Youth,’ (1946, directed by Akira

Kurosawa) depicts the story of the
daughter of a university professor in
the 1930s who is courted by two of her
father’s students.

The third film, ‘‘Hoodlum Soldier”
(1965), directed by Yasuzo Masumu-
ra, deals with the unusual relation-
ship of a tough Tokyo gangster and
an intellectual who share their
hatred of the army.

On May 12, ‘‘Human Bullet” (1968,
directed by Kihachi Okamoto) deals
with the effects of the war upon the
common man.

A soldier disguised as a Burmese

priest comes face to face with war's
consequences in the moving film
“Harp of Burma’’ (1956, directed ‘by
Kon Ichikawa), which will be shown
on May 19.

The last film of the series, on May
26, ‘‘Women of the Night” (1948,
directed by Kenji Mizoguchi), deals
with the evils of prostitution and the
harsh conditions many women faced
in the years just after the war.

These films are also being shown
as part of History 379, Seminar on
Japan in World U, by Professor
Roger B. Jeans Jr.

 

 

 

 

 

|

 

165 S. Main

 

| bffmorE [hire Florist

Welcome Back,

| Students!
Come see us

| for your

_ Special occasions!

463-9152

 

 

 

<<

 

Campus

 

117 W. Nelson St.

 

 

Music

Come Check Us Out...
...We’re Moving Up!!!

The area’s largest selection of classic rock-n-roll

Over 100 LPs by these greats alone:

The Beatles The Eagles Bob Marley
Chicago The Grateful Dead Pink Floyd

Eric Clapton Jimi Hendrix The Rolling Stones
The Doors Journey The Who

Plus over 100 titles with more on the way
including classical and jazz

463-4544

 

 

a _

 

Student Activities Board

presents

The White Animals

and

The Voltage Brothers

Friday, May 2 at the Student Pavilion
Tickets $5 on sale Monday in

the Bookstore

 

 

 

Summer Fall Spring

WASHINGTON
OR LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

OXFORD ‘SUMMER

Full Academic Years In

* Oxford University
°L.S.E.
e St. Andrews, Scotland

U.S. credits will be transferred
through Hampden-Sydney
College, founded in Virginia by
James Madison in 1776.
Graduate work is an option.
The Director of Studies for the
Center for Quality Education
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt.
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt.
(Oxon,), Fellow of the British
Academy, Professor Emeritus
of Government and Fellow of
All Souls, Oxford.
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK, J.D.,
Admissions Director CQEA/
WISC, Rm 53, 188 W. 81 St.,
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0804/7 24-0136).
(EO/AA)

 

 

 

 

Datz, assistant proctor and member
of Wildgrass, helped organize the
festival and hopes to make it an an-
nual event.

Talk of the Town features strong
three- and four-part harmonies led
by the vibrant lead vocals of Martha
Adcock; wife of band leader Eddie
Adcock. Eddie's banjo and lead
acoustic guitar work is complement-
ed by Susie Gott’s fiddle playing and
Missy Raines’ driving acoustic bass
lines.

Eddie Adcock has been a renowned
name in the Bluegrass world since
the 1950s. He played with Bill Monroe
and Max Wiseman but is probably
most noted as the catalyst of the
ground-breaking original Country
Gentlemen.

In addition, Adcock was the first in-
ternationally acclaimed five-string

Bluegrass sparks Lime Kiln Arts Festival

bluegrass banjoist to appear at
Carnegie Hall.

Beginning in 1971, Eddie and his
wife began II Generation, an innova-
tive progressive bluegrass group
which lasted for nearly a decade.
Later, Eddie served as band director
for country singer David Allen Coe.

The Adcocks added Raines, for-
merly of the Virginia-based group
Cloud Valley, on acoustic bass and
Gott, the 1985 Bluegrass Fiddle
Champion of Fiddler’s Grove, N.C.,
on fiddle and vocals to form Talk of
the Town.

Tickets are $5. Festival-goers are
invited to bring lawn chairs and
blankets.

A rain date of April 27 has been set.
Proceeds fromthe festival will go to
Lime Kiln Arts and a local charity
yet to be announced.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, April 24
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Energy and Entropy: Are We
Living in Thermodynamic Sin?’ 14th Annual Alumnus Visitor: Dr.
Kurt Seidman ’70, Chairman of Chemistry Dept. R-MWC. Room 401,
Howe Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: “Bridge over the River Kwai.”
Room 203, Reid Hall.

Friday, April 25

Law School Classes End.
ALL DAY — MEN’S TENNIS: ODAC Tournament. W&L Courts.
ALL DAY — CONTACT ’86 SYMPOSIUM: “The Procurement of
America’s Defense: 1986 and Beyond.”
10:30 a.m. — CONTACT SYMPOSIUM: ‘‘The Present State of Af-
fairs.’ Lee Chapel.
2 p.m, — CONTACT SYMPOSIUM: ‘“‘Prospects for the Future.”’ Lee
Chapel.
7:30 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: ‘‘A Summer to Remember.”
Room 327. Commerce School.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘“‘The Stains” General Headquarters.

Saturday, April 26

Law School reading days begin.
ALL DAY — MEN’s TENNIS: ODAC Championships continue at W&L
Tennis Courts
1 p.m. — JOURNALISM TELECONFERENCE: Northen Auditorium.
2 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Washington College. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT: The Rockbridge Orchestra. Jackson
Memorial Hall. VMI.

Sunday, April 27
1:30 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. Christopher Newport. Smith
Field.
1:30 p.m, — ROCKBRIDGE CANCER RUN: Wilson Field. (Registra-
tion begins at noon. )
3 p.m. — ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: USAF TAC
Band. Lee Chapel Lawn.

Monday, April 28
4 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘Turing Machines.’’ Trevor Evans,
Emory University. Room 6, Robinson Hall.
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILM SERIES: ‘‘No
Regrets for Our Youth.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Wesley Volk of the University of Virginia medical school will be the
second speaker in Washington and Lee’s Robert Lee Telford Lecture
Series. Volk will give a talk titled “Viruses, Cancer, and AIDS”’ Mon-
day at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium of the University Library. A
reception will follow. On Tuesday at 3 p.m., Volk will deliver a
seminar on ‘‘Molecular Biology of Bacterial Virulents”’ in Room 305 of
Parmly Hall. Refreshments will be served at 2:30 p.m.

8 p.m. — LECTURE: “Rockbridge Artisans.”’ Royster Lyle and Bar-
bara Crawford. duPont Auditorium.

Tuesday, April 29
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Radford.
3 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. VMI Smith Field.
3 p.m. — SEMINAR: ‘Molecular Biology of Bacterial Virulents.’
Wesley Volk, U.Va. Room 305, Parmly Hall.

Wednesday, April 30
3:30 p.m. — WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. JMU. Smith Field.
6 p.m. — PASSOVER DINNER: Evans Dining Hall. Reservations re-
quired by April 23. For information call 463-8788.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘The Bedford Incident.’’ Room 327,
Commerce School.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘‘Wild Kingdom” GHQ. Sponsored by the Student Ac-
tivities Board.

Thursday, May 1
Dr. Edward J. Drea, a member of the faculty of the U.S. Army War
College and Assistant Director for Historical Services at the U.S. Ar-
my Military History Institute, will present a slide lecture next Thurs-
day, May 1. Titled “Life in the Japanese Imperial Army,”’ the slide
lecture will be in the University Library's Northen Auditorium and is
open to the public free of charge.

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 
