 

ag eg

a a eee ae ea

e

Move

 
 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 27

Betas help

new library
Page 4

Ghe King-tum Phi

   
  

 

 

 

  

 

 

Groove

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

White Animals
play Pavilion

 
  
 
 

 

Page 8

  

 

Your Old South weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Fri: sunny, high of 75
Weekend: breezy, cooler

 

MAY 1, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

Trucks and construction equipment at the site of the
Francis P, Gaines Residence Hall during work this week
(above). The dormitory is scheduled to be occupied in the
fall of 1987. A sign on Washington Street (right) between
Graham-Lees Dormitory and the Baker, Davis, Gilliam
quad warns passersby of possible danger from dynamite

used during construction.

‘It blew me out of my bed’

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

Blasting at the construction site of
the Francis P. Gaines Residence Hall
will last for about two more weeks,
continuing to inconvenience those in
the Davis, Baker and Gilliam dor-
mitories.

The early-morning explosions have
disrupted students’ studying and
sleeping in those dormitories,
according to Dean of Freshmen H.
Robert Huntley. Thursday an explo-
sion scattered rocks and debris into
the freshman quad, broke a second-
floor window in Davis and ripped a
hole in the contractor’s trailer.

Huntley said the explosions are a
distraction, but that the company do-
ing the blasting, Charles W. Barger

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

    

and Son of Lexington, is doing every-
thingitcan to minimize the noise.

The company has already delayed
its starting time in the morning by
one hour and is taking advantage of
the good weather by “accelerating
the building process’’ to finish the
blasting as quickly as_ possible.
Huntley added that much of the dril-
ling and blasting is now done in the
afternoon in response to students’
complaints about being awakened by
early morning explosions.

“We are asking the students to be
reasonable,’ Huntley said. ‘(The
blasts) are something we have no
control over.”’

Frank Parsons, executive assis-
tant to University President John D.
Wilson, said the school had to
balance the construction schedule
with the needs of students. He sug-

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

The jukebox features oldies and Top 40

Detectors

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

A money saver, a safety device, an
equalizer — call them what you like,
but if you're driving with one in
Virginia, you're probably breaking
the law.

Police radar detectors. They're a
booming $200 million-per-year in-
dustry. Last year, sales reached the 2
million mark nationwide for the first
time.

The devices have evolved from
simple $100 black boxes that mount
on a car’s dashboard, to advanced
$300-plus, cassette-sized remote units
that are easily concealed from
thieves and the police.

Radar detector use increased ra-
pidly after the national 55 mph speed

illegal but

limit was instituted over a decade
ago. Yet despite their popularity the
units are legal in only 48 of 50 states.
There are laws against the devices in
Virginia, Connecticut, and the
District of Columbia. In 1982, the
Michigan State Supreme Court over-
turned a prior ruling and legalized
the devices. Indiana and Kentucky
have recently done the same.

“T see them as a flagrant violation
of traffic safety,’ said Virginia State
Trooper J.L. Hines, ‘‘They let people
drive at their own chosen speed.”

Hines, who has served nearly 20
years with the state police, called the
use of detectors “discouraging.”

He explained that police radar is
Significantly slower than detectors
since it must put out a signal and then
wait to receive it. Radar detectors,
on the other hand, simply ‘‘sense

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

gested that students fit in their work
and sle€p around the construction.

“Our experience with the Law
School and the library has shown the
need to keep on schedule and not
make concessions to convenience,”’
he said.

The 249-bed dormitory is scheduled
to be occupied in the fall of 1987. Cur-
rent blasting is to clear rock for the
installation of drain and sewer lines
and the foundation. It is also being
used to clear a level parking area.

As for student safety, W. Scott
Beebe, assistant superintendent of
buildings and grounds and director of
special projects, said, ‘All precau-
tions are being taken to protect life
and limb.”

Following

Thursday's _ incident,

C) See Blast, page 5

Juke box: ‘Nice break’ or ‘Joe’s Disco Palace

munching on some M&Ms and swallowing a re-
freshing carbonated beverage.

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

Police seek senior
-fraud case

in card

=
By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

Former Washington and Lee senior
Roger L. Dunnavan Jr. is being
sought for questioning about a credit
card theft and fraud case police have
been investigating for three weeks,
according to Lexington Police Chief
L.O. Sutton.

Dunnavan, an economics major
from Longwood, Fla., withdrew from
the University this week.

“We are conducting an investiga-
tion, and we do wish to talk to him in
reference to this investigation,’’ Sut-
ton said, adding that although Dun-
navan has not been arrested, if he
could be located, ‘‘I’d be happy to ac-
commodate him.”

Sutton said “other jurisdictions”
also are involved in the investigation.

On Friday at 5 p.m., Dunnavan and
several others were scheduled to
meet at the police station for an
“interview,’’ but Sutton said Dun-
navan did not show up.

“He called from Charlottesville or
somewhere and said he couldn't
make it,’ Sutton said.

The group invited to the Friday

' meeting included witnesses and sus-

pects, the police chief said, but he

drops from

The grade market was mixed
winter term, with the freshman
and junior classes scoring gains
from their fall scores and the
sophomore and senior classes
declining from their efforts the
previous term.

Women, on the average, again
outperformed men, with the
average male grade-point aver-
age standing at 2.669 and the
female tally at 2.842.

Registrar D. Scott Dittman
noted a ‘‘significant decrease”’ in
the number of students on acade-
mic probation after last term

 

declined to identify them. Sutton ad-
ded that some appeared as scheduled
and others did not.

Sutton said last week that a W&L
student is the primary suspect in a
case involving grand larceny and
fraudulent use of a credit card.

He said yesterday that the in-
vestigation is not yet complete and
that he has net decided whether to
issue a warrant for the individual’s
arrest or seek indictment of the per-
son when the Rockbridge County
grand jury meets Monday.

Police reports say that on April 10,
an individual using a stolen Visa
credit card attempted to make an
$1,800 withdrawal from a local bank.
Police determined that the Visa and
two other credit cards the individual
possessed had been taken from a
third-year W&L law student.

Dunnavan enrolled in W&L in the
fall of 1981 and was away from school
for the 1983-84 academic year.

He was his social fraternity’s rush
chairman in 1984, played football for
three years and participated in the
University Federation's Big
Brother program. He graduated
from the Lawrenceville School in
New Jersey and plans a career in
financial management.

University Registrar D. Scott Ditt-

ae ee eee
Students on probation House scores

last winter

compared to winter of 1985.
Students eligible to participate in
only one extracurricular activity
number 23, down from 49 for last
year.

The grade-point average for
seniors was 2.799, down from fall’s
2.913; juniors scored a 2.765, up
from 2.610; sophomores checked
in at 2.528, a slight decline from
2.532; and freshmen chalked up a
2.677, a gain from 2.562.

The winter grade-point average
for fraternity members was 2.618,
compared to a 2.812 scored by non-
fraternity students and a 2.686
average for all students.

 

ROGER DUNNAVAN

man said that on Tuesday he receiv-
ed a letter from Dunnavan asking to
withdraw from school.

A relative answering the phone at
Dunnavan’s house in in Florida said
he did not know where Dunnavan can
be reached. His phone in Lexington
has been disconnected.

Fal
Fraternity G.P.A. Rank
1. Zeta Beta Tau 2.801 14
2. Sigma Chi 2.751 10
3. Phi Delta Theta $78
4. Kappa Sigma aie
5. Sima Nu 2.692 9
6. Pi Kappa Alpha 2664 5
7. Lambda Chi Alpha 2.654 12
8. Phi Kappa Psi 2646 7
9.Sig. Alpha Epsilon 2641 8
10. Kappa Alpha 2.639 6
11. Chi Psi 2615 1
12.PhiKappaSigma 2.549 13
13. Pi Kappa Phi 2.539 11
14. Sig. Phi Epsilon 2.492 4
15.PhiGamma Delta 2.485 15
16. Delta Tau Delta 2.472 16
17. Beta Theta Pi 2.370 7

 

 

 

The song selection, however, is quite bizzare.

?

“Next they could add a disco ball and strobe
lights,”’ said freshman Jeff Kelsey.

George McDowell said, ‘‘I like it. It makes for a

You asked for it and you got it.

Or at least that is the reason Jerry Darrell,
Director of Food Services, gave for the addition of,
of all things, a jukebox at the Washington and Lee
snack bar.

Darrell said the machine was added in response
to suggestions by several students and was install-
ed during spring break.

According to Darrell, the jukebox has proven to
be quite popular, although it can be operated only
at night.

Darrell said University Treasurer E. Stewart
Epley said the jukebox could not be played during
the day.

“This might rival the GHQ on Wednesday
night,’’ quipped junior Andrew Caruthers.

As one might expect, it only costs a quarter to
have that favorite song waft through the air while

helpful for ‘running’ |

The jukebox features Steppenwolf’s ‘Born To Be
Wild,’ Ted Nugent’s ‘Little Miss Dangerous,”
Wild Cherry’s ‘‘Play That Funky Music,” Captain
and Tennille’s ‘Love Will Keep Us Together,” and
the Rolling Stones’ ‘When The Whip Comes
Down.” In addition, there are recent selections
from Sting, Dire Straits and Whitney Houston.

“The students said they wanted mostly oldies,
but we added some current top 40 also,”’ Darrell
said.

Darrell said he will put whatever music the
students want in the jukebox.

“If you want a particular song, I can order it.’
he said.

Student response to the contraption was mixed.

Freshman Chris Crosby said, “I think it pretty
well parallels the radical atmosphere of the snack
bar.”

good break from studying.”
Junior Jeff Marks was not so fond of the new ad-
dition, however.
‘T think the jukebox ruined the snack bar. It us-
ed to be a good place to go and hang out and waste
time; now it is Joe’s Disco Palace.”

Sophomore Ted Williams agreed.

“T think they're trying to make this place a
hang-out and it doesn't seem to be working. A
friend of mine wanted to know if there was some
way to insert a quarter for silence *' =

Williams also said he felt sorry for the snack bar
staff, who must listen to the jukebox all night.

Cashier Barbara Johnson, however, said she lik-
ed it

“We're the ones putting all the money in it, I
think,”’ she said.

Darrell said he could not guarantee that there
will be a dance floor any time in the future

 

 

the signal and therefore provide the
user a slight advantage. Still, Hines
isn’t sold on the infallibility of radar
detectors. “I'd say we're still cat-
ching a lot of them though,” he said.

Ronnie Loy, a 28-year trucking
veteran from Winchester, dosn't see
the need for a radar detector since he
does most of his driving in Virginia.
“‘T used to dread driving in Virginia,
now it’s got to be one of the easiest
states torun [speed] in,” he said.

“Up around the Winchester area
you can do about 68 before they'll pull
you,”’ said Loy

In fact, State Police Superinten
dent R.L. Suthard has instructed
State troopers to provide a ‘5 mph
tolerance”’ for speeders to allow for
speedometer error, according to
Hines. ‘‘We start ticketing at 61.”
said Hines

If you’re caught with a radar detec-
tor in Virginia, you may be subject to
a fine of not less than $25 nor more
than $100. The arresting officer
needn't prove the device was in use.
merely that it was readily accessible
and that it had a power source.
according to Virginia state law.

Hines has caught his share of
detector users, ‘‘The speeder usually
slams on his brakes when I know he
cant see me — that’s when I know
he's got a radar detector.” This is
especially true at night or when he’s
caught a speeder from behind Hines
said.

“Our old radars used to bleed out a
lot of radar signal even when they
were shut off, that’s what warns most
detector users. The new [policel

See Radar, page 5

 

 

   

 

  

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

An Escort radar detector that sits on the dashboard
OPINION
Bungled

The recent foo-foo-rah between Lexington Police Chief L.O.
Sutton and the Executive Committee over the handling of two
cases involving both a potential felony and a possible honor
violation reflect poorly on all involved, especially the local
police.

The working relationship between the police and the EC
traditionally has been a smooth one, with each body helping
the other on cases of mutual interest. Not all EC cases, cer-
tainly, are criminal proceedings worthy of police action, and
certainly not all police investigations involve honor viola-
tions. But in recent years, that working relationship has been
strained by poor communication, poor investigative work by
the police and lots of finger-pointing. If the Honor System is
to remain a viable institution in the community and on the
campus, the police and the EC need to cooperate to a greater
degree. i

Neither side is blameless in the affairs discussed on the
front page of last week’s Phi. Consider the case of Will Mar-
tin, the freshman charged with forgery. The investigation of
the matter was begun by University Proctor Charles F.
‘‘Murph”’ Murray. As noted ina letter on this page from Mur-
ray and Assistant Proctor William C. ‘‘Burr’’ Datz, the police
were notified by University officials of the case against Mar-
tin once the EC had received information and scheduled a
hearing. Martin, one might logically assume, realized the
police could not be far behind and left town soon thereafter.
But the police — given evidence and 36 hours’ notice — some-
how managed to bungle the arrest.

But why and how did the police manage to miss Martin?
Why didn’t they go to his room and arrest him there, knowing
that he would probably withdraw from W&L? And with 36
hours’ notice, is it possible that a student could outsmart the
Lexington police? What did the Lexington police do during
this period to track down Martin? Where are Buster Keaton
and the Keystone Kops when you need them?

Equally serious, perhaps, is the glibness with which Sutton
discussed the Martin case with a Phi reporter. An honor in-
vestigation is supposed to be a confidential matter; when the
honor violation is also being considered by the local authori-
ties as a criminal offense, certain rules of conduct ought to be
followed. Sutton’s flagrant disregard for the confidentiality
involved muddied the waters tremendously. Would he, in
turn, like the EC to discuss a sensitive criminal investigation
in public before any action is taken?

And Suttton’s complaint that the EC ‘‘tipped off’’ Martin
before the police could take action seems like sour grapes
when adjacent to the story on the Martin case the reader
found Sutton discussing a current credit card fraud in-
vestigation of another W&L student — before the EC was able
to complete an investigation and before even the police were
able to arrest the suspect. Is it any wonder that the suspect
did not keep an ‘‘appointment”’ with Sutton last Friday after-
noon and subsequently left town before legal or honor pro-
ceedings could be taken?

If Sutton’s concern is that people are tipping off suspects,
why did he talk about the credit card fraud case?

Most seriously, perhaps, why hasn’t Sutton ever spoken
directly to an EC member about the alleged problems? Did
any member of the EC ever consider speaking (or respond-
ing) to Sutton about problems with the Martin case? While
the EC may be the target of complaints, that does not pre-
clude them from at least trying to clean their own house,
whether the mess is their fault or Sutton’s.

It is certainly in the community’s best interests for the
police and the EC to work closely together. The EC should
help Sutton to as great an extent as possible, while maintain-
ing the integrity of the White Book. We do not, however, want
EC members to be the campus chapter of the Lexington
police, nor do we want EC members to be witnesses at a
municipal legal proceeding. As for Sutton, it is certainly
misleading for him to blame everything on the EC, consider-
ing it is not the first time his department has failed to catch a

suspect, despite having had sufficient warning from the EC
to get a warrant. Has no lesson been learned?

I hope that future relations between the EC and the Lex-
ington police will not run amok because of poor communica-
tion or an attempt by either side to cover poor handling of any
given case. The EC must not and should not compromise its
unique position in honor matters in dealing with the police,
but, whenever possible, cooperation should be the rule and
not the exception. As for Sutton and the local police, a higher
standard of professional conduct seems the least the W&L
community — as well as Lexington — should expect.

—NRP

[Correction |

 

 

"TW just wait uxtil he’s
found, arocent at his
honor rial...”

C eetanne
—

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

Alive and kicking,

 

 
   

 

 

 

or just kicking out? :

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

If the number of people leaving
school because of honor violations is
any measure of the usefulness and
health of the Honor System, the
system is indeed alive and kicking.
But the disturbing fact is that these
dismissals have resulted from illegal
activities that warrant heavy fines
and prison terms in a court of law.
Each week The Phi headlines stories
about credit card fraud, check
forgery, alleged rape, vandalized
frat houses, and students shooting
other students. Alumni, bewildered
by what they read, write letters begg-
ing students to “‘please be gentle with
our University.’ What’s going on
here? It seems the W&L student body
is the sole cause of the crime rate in
Lexington.

The attitude of the majority of
students seems to be not ‘‘Let’s try to
do what’s honorable,’ but ‘‘Let’s see
how much we can get away with.”
With such an attitude, the Honor
System becomes a farce. Some sug-
gest it may be occurring because
many students who come to W&L at-
tended public or private schools that
didn’t have an honor system.

I transferred to a private school
halfway through my high school
career. In public high school, I’m
now ashamed to say, I wrote a term
paper for another student as a favor.
At the time I thought nothing of it, for
my loyalty to that student was far
greater than it was to the school or
administration. I seriously doubt the
student would have passed senior
English and graduated without my
help.

When I transferred to the private
school, honor became something one
didn’t try to get around. It was
always first and foremost in every
student’s mind, and students were
scared stiff of the Honor System.
There was the ‘‘direct question”’ rule.
If a teacher asked you a question, you
had to answer truthfully or face ex-
pulsion. Protecting a friend by lying
was dishonorable. If a teacher asked

who set off the bottle rockets in the
bathroom and you said you didn’t
know, and you knew it was your
roommate, you were guilty of lying
and could be kicked out. Students
turned themselves in more often than
they turned in one another. The
wrath of the disciplinarian was far
less horrible than an honor offense
and expulsion.

After my experience at private
school, I wouldn’t even say ‘“‘I forgot
my homework” if I knew it wasn’t en-
tirely true, much less write a term |
paper for another student.

When the EC gave its big talk on
honor for the freshmen at the begin-
ning of the year, they made the
Honor System out to be too soft. They
should have put the fear of God into
the students. A particular student
asked if using a fake ID was an honor
violation. The EC member responded
by asking ‘Do you think it could be
considered lying?” The ‘‘student
generation” deciding what con-
stitutes lying, cheating and stealing
didn’t give me an impression of
fairness, but as a loophole through
which many offenders could escape.
In order for the system to work, one

has to know the rules. If sucha cause |

and effect method of administering
the Honor System were implement-

ed, it would eliminate much of the |

gray areas of “how much a student
can get away with.”’ I’m for a stricter
adherence to the Honor System jn
which precedence does matter, an
for a stronger disciplinarian system.
Finally, a side note: The EC was so
concerned that details of honors

trials might be published (and thus ~

spread outside the W&L community)
that they added a section prohibiting
such actions to the White Book. They
want to present a good public image
to those outside the W&L community.
Yet a bad image is broadcast by the
behavior of students at away spor-
ting events (U.Va./W&L lax.) as well
as the weekly charges of illegal con-
duct reported in The Phi. I’d rather
people outside the W&L community
know what is being done to deal with
these miscreants at honor trials than
only hear of their misdeeds.

   

%

G
‘
®
*
e
.
y nd

&

®

4%

1

¥
¥

¥
2
¥
*
,

¥
)

-

 

(

;
t

> |

Student’s achievement, work praised 3

 

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

 

“T Want You, I Want You, I Want
You.”’

No, Uncle Sam was not asking me
to join today’s Army. Nor was some
voluptuous blonde whispering sweet
nothings in my ear.

It was after midnight on a Tuesday
morning, and I was staring at a
slime-green computer screen (ac-
tually, I was looking at the keys
because I still don’t know how to
type). All I could hear were the
words, ‘‘I Want You,” over and over
again.

The cassette player was no longer
turned on, but in my mind I could
hear the hypnotically haunting key-
boards and grinding guitars, the
grand and glorious sounds of student

achievement. I could hear the voice
of a good friend, who, guided by his
heart beats and aided by some other
student musidicans, recently had
recorded what should be a hit song on
WLUR.

Last Friday, the words and music
in my head were different, but the
song remained the same, John Falk,
21, a W&L senior from Great Falls,
transformed his study of waste,
fraud, mismanagement and corrup-
tion into one of W&L’s greatest stu-
dent success stories.

“Waste, fraud, mismangement
and corruption.”” Those were the
words I was hearing over and over,
the first words that would come to
mind if Uncle Sam were to tell me
that he did want me for today’s Ar-
my.

Last summer, Falk was research-
ing defense issues for Rep. James T.
Kolbe, R-Ariz, and decided to
organize what was to become one of

the most balanced and diverse panels
of military experts ever formed.
After about eight months of prepara-
tion and organization, Falk last Fri-
day brought seven procurement ex-
perts together in W&L’s Lee Chapel
to talk to each other, rather than at
each other. And he did it for less than
a third of what it cost Contact to host
James Watt a couple of months ago.

The defense of our nation is one of
the most important issues facing us
today. Our defenses are down. If we
are paying $400 for hammers and
$600 for ashtrays, then by how much
are we being overcharged on billion-
dollar submarines? We contract for
weapons that don’t work, such as the
Sgt. York gun. Specifications and
packaging regulations are outdated
and excessive.

Just as we allow ourselves to be
abused by military contractors, we
are being ripped off when we do not
attempt to unlock our mental and

LETTERS

physical potential, when we do not
partake of other students’ achieve-
ments.

If W&L truly is a liberal arts in-
stitution, faculty and administrators
must encourage students to attend

_ their peers’ projects, performances

and competitions. Students must look
for ways to express themselves crea-
tively and contribute to this institu-
tion and this community.

In a year when notices of honor
convictions seem to wallpaper the
Colonnade and incidents such as the
Ariel photo escapade indicate our
own ineptitude, it is heartening to
know students learn and grow by go-

ing beyond what they have been

taught in the classroom.

Be it on a cold day or a summer's
night, isn’t it wonderful to bask in the
warmth of student achievement? We
must grab hold of it and never let it
go, for in it lies the future of our
generation.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi incorrectly
reported last week that first-year
law student Louise P. Senft is the
first woman elected to the Ex-

ecutive Committee. Jacquelyn
Kay Boyden of Lexington was the
first-year law representative for
the 1977-78 academic year.

 

NEWS STAFF

EDITORIAL PAGE

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

oes Feta sewer id iteieiiices 0s eae
eNO EAE hse os bur earecees Paul Foutch

Executive GG... 66. cesee ss
RAMOS 6 ois Hise crsee cer cerseeeees

Managing Editor ..................500..
Sports EGMOF .... oc ccccccccscccnscccesens
ee...
Photography BGO? «0. csc ccctcesccscecsns
Oiiel Copy BME oc crc cercciescscesies
Entertainment Editor...............00006
Assistant Sports Editor ...............4.

SiN aAlisti Reade Williams
Sele tba cia bbe saps Mike Stachura
pee re eg ee ae ee Jason Lisi
Pore ee Tape pee ova ear Steve Sadler
Si CIN ele ee cibias Matt Horridge

SeEVET Cs Cee te Re certestieee David Emrich

ee ctacsedarcessceses cs NOMOR Pattoregn
ee ee eee
60 ET CFE Fea ctr eves Chris Bowring

Editorial Page Editor ..............-.0005
Assistant Editorial Page Editor............
COPUOONINE 5 occ ccs

Se kbs bck phe cskiiedyecedes Jeff Kimbell
o US58 1 5 500d 04 Fi tegen . Hank Greenberg
cE eis eeees John Fey-er, Keri Hinrichs,

Business MauaQe?. igs ccs cccccccceciss
Advertising Manager ................6005
Advertising Salesmen.................++.
Circulation MandQe?. 6556 cedis cece tes ta csctcccicetas Te ilLiestess Matt Horridge
The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year ai
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum )’ti
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. ' he
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters te the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

Jim Strader

Marshali Boswell

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

 

 

Reader deplores current student behavior

To the editors:

In 1946 we arrived at Washington and Lee
University, where my husband began a post-war
career. That is a lot of Ring-tum Phis ago.

During this past academic year, while on sab-
batical leave in Europe, we have received about
10 copies of The Phi (thanks to a thoughtful
secretary). Our view from abroad of the Univer-
sity through the eyes of The Phi makes it read
like a cheap scandal sheet.

We have been in Europe for eight months try-
ing to help the armed forces deal with morale
problems. W&L students are “safe” in their
bailiwick while their military counterparts, by
choice, are defending their freedoms. They have
the same problems of DUI, suicide, bad checks,
and drug abuse, but there is no soft judge to put
them on probation for being “bad boys.’’ The
majority of soldiers are not educated beyond
high school, but they are taking all kinds of risks
and abuses from adversaries abroad and accept
this as part of their job. Fortunately, we have
been lucky to be at the right place at the right
time, but we have had our share of “hair-
raisers.’’ You have no idea what the soldiers, in-
cluding many W&L alumni, are going through to
protect your interests.

The main part of our project was going to
remote sites along the East German and Czech
borders to see how morale could be improved, It
put everything in perspective! Many of the
soldiers are the ages of W&L students, but their
priorities are different and more responsible.

College is “supposed” to be an institution of
higher, learning where responsibility and
discipline are required. So, what gives W&L
students license to be destructive in the library,
dorms, fraternities and even to their fellow
students by driving drunk! ?!

Millions of alumni dollars have been spent to
make historical W&L a prestigious university in
academics and a campus of beauty to be proud
of. W&L has been our second home for 40 years,
We have met several W&L graduates as Army
officers in our travels over here, even at the East
German and Czech. border sites, All fondly in-
quired how things are at W&L. Should we have
told them what we had read lately in The Phi —
drug abuse, rape and vandalism for starters?

The old cop-out that ‘‘boys will be boys’’ should
go out with high school graduation. This adage
does not apply wben one is old enough to own a
car and finally be away from parental supervi-
sion — privileges and responsibilities that in-
dicate maturity.

Not long ago, we remember that W&L students
were labeled “‘gentlemen.’’ Also, the Honor
System really worked and every aspect of the
“eode’’ was respected without being redefined to
suit one’s own needs.

Our soldiers are putting their lives on the line
on a day-to-day basis to preserve our freedom,
culture and national heritage. But back home,
certain students are literally destroying tradi-
tion and property in our lovely town and univer-
sity by degrees. Can we look rorward to return-

ing to a better atmosphere in September? We
hope so!
Mrs. Norman F. Lord

Proctors give clarification

To the editors:

We would like to clarify our role in the check-
forging case reported on the front page of last
week’s Ring-tum Phi. In no way was our in-
vestigation meant to undermine the Lexington
Police Department's case against the accused,
and because of the confidentiality of the Honor
System, we refrained from giving the evidence
to the police until the suspect was charged by the
Executive Committee. Thus, the police had at
least 36 hours to issue warrants and arrest the
suspect, and we do not feel that his subsequent

“escape”’ is our fault or that of the Executive
Committee.

ironicaily, aujacent to the “interference arti-
cle’’ was an announcement by {Police Chief L.O.
Sutton] that an arrest of a W&L student
suspected of credit card fraud was “coming.”
That suspect has apparently left school and has
yet to be charged.

We have a deep respect for the Honor System
and the student body of Washington and Lee and
will continue to work for the principles set forth
in the White Book.

Charles F, Murray
Proctor

William C, Datz
Assistant Proctor

 

 

ta

wr Oe of |

;  ®

.-eeeeeteuwna * He *

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

EC

 

 

 

‘ LOUISE SENFT

' By JASON LISI
s ee Editor

-

 

» _ Is there a place for Boy Scouts at
? Washington and Lee?

: Junior Steve Pockrass, who is the
yv driving force behind the establish-
; » ment of a chapter of a national ser-
+” vice fraternity, thinks there is.

 

 

Pockrass is working to obtain a
» « charter for a chapter of Alpha Phi
i _, Omega, a coeducational fraternity
that promotes community and school

t service throughout the United States.

& “It’s a national service fraternity
based on the ideals of leadership,

' 3 friendship and service,’ Pockrass
® said.

| & The group plans to do community
i 4 work at W&L and throughout Rock-
+ * bridge County while provinding the
‘ * opportunity for social activity as
, well, Pockrass explained. This type
of group is sorely needed by both the
* W&L student body and the communi-

« ty around it, he said.

“Tt will be an alternative to for

students who feel there’s more to life

* than just drinking beer,” he said. ‘‘It

provides an outlet which apparently
has not been here for 240 years.”

“This is the most important thing
*. I’ve worked on at Washington and
¢ Lee,’’ he concluded.

Some members have already re-

presented Alpha Phi Omega in the

# community, primarily by working in
last weekend’s ‘Clean Lexington
Day” and “Cancer Run ’86.” This

4 weekend, the group has plans to par-

, ticipate in the “‘Hands Across Rock-
bridge’’ project for the needy and to
help with parking at an upcoming
Boy Scout gathering.

Pockrass said one of the major
goals of starting the Alpha Phi
Omega fraternity is to improve the

, relationship between the W&L stu-
dent body and the surrounding com-
* munity, which he calls ‘‘one of the
most needy communities in the state
x of Virginia.”

%

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

Newly elected Executive Commit-
tee representatives Jim Humphreys
and Louise Senft both say they're
committed to strengthening the
Honor System among law students.

Humphreys said his “goal is to
build the same kind of participation
in the Honor System as the under-
grads have.”

He added, ‘‘A lot of people perceive
law students as not having an in-
terest in the Honor System.’’ Hum-
phreys said that was untrue.

Humphreys proposed that honor
hearing procedures be changed so
that the accused could contact
witnesses prior to a closed hearing so
the defense advocate could prepare a
cross-examination.

Junior starting
service fraternity’s
campus chapter

 

 

 

He would also like procedures
changed so that the chairman of an
“open” honor trial would not have to
admit improper evidence that was
used at a closed hearing. Under cur-
rent rules all evidence presented at a
closed hearing is admissable.

Humphreys has acted as a defense
advocate and said he perceived these
problems when he was working with
the Honor System. But he feels his
suggestions will be an ‘‘improvement
in the system in general and not pro-
defense.”’

Humphreys also said there should
be a more comprehensive orientation
to the Honor System for first-year
law students. He said he has been
talking with president-elect Shayam
Menon about that.

Senft listed her two primary goals

 

The APO emblem

He did scouting and community
work in high school and was surpris-
ed by the lack of that type of action on
W&L’s campus. “‘I found it very odd
to think that a high school of 250
students could do at least 10 times as
much community service as what is
supposedly a nationally recognized
college of 1,300,” he said.

He added that Alpha Phi Omega
“will help to instill a social con-
sciousness or social awareness on the
Washington and Lee campus, which I
think is very needed here.”’

Alpha Phi Omega was founded in
1925 at Lafayette College by a former
Boy Scout who wanted to continue
with the principles of scouting at the
college level. The chapter at the
University of Virginia, as are most
chapters, is run like a social fraterni-
ty, complete with rush, bids, and
even a pledge education program.

Pockrass said the Scouting aspect
of Alpha Phi Omega has been dimin-
ished over the years, however.

 

“While groups often work with Scout
groups, they try to work throughout
the community,”’ he said. ‘‘There’s
no need at all for anyone to have had
any contact with scouting before.”’

Pockrass said that anyone in-
terested can participate in the com-
munity projects and come to the
meetings, which are every Tuesday
night in the University Center.
Members can be male or female, in-
dependent or associated with a social
fraternity.

The group’s major project right
now is to show the national organiza-
tion of Alpha Phi Omega that W&L’s
chapter deserves a charter. To do
this, Pockrass said, the group will
have to exhibit an ‘‘ongoing”’ calen-
dar of community service and have a
membership of at least 15 people.

Pockrass says the possibilities for
a charter are very good. There is in-
terest for more community projects
within the 18-member group.

The fact that Alpha Phi Omega is a
coeducational fraternity will offer
women on campus an activity other

as improving the knowledge that
first-year law students have of the

Honor System and of lessening ten-

sions between the EC and defense ad-

vocates. She said some law students

have little idea of what the Honor
System is

Senft said she and Humphreys had

not worked together in planning their
agendas but she was happy to see

that they had similar goals.

Both Senft and Humphreys agreed
with most of the EC’s major deci-
sions this year.

Humphreys gave full support to the
EC’s decisions not to allow a woman
or minority ad hoc member on the

Student Control Committee. He also
supports the decision not to allow

press coverage of ‘open’ honor

trails.

However, Humphreys opposed the
White Book revision that forbids the
president or vice president of the Stu-
dent Bar Association from acting as
defense advocates during their term
of office. Students involved in honor
cases can be fair regardless of their
other activities, he said.

Senft supported the EC’s decisions
but acknowledged that they were
hard decisions and there are good
arguments on both sides.

Humphreys is a Washington and
Lee graduate. This was the first time
he had run for the EC.

Senft, is a University of Virginia
graduate, was vice president of the
Women’s Law Student Organization
and is married to current first-year
representative Bill Senft, who was
elected treasurer of the SBA.

’s new law members emphasize honor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Steve Pockrass leads Tuesday’s meeting of Alpha Phi Omega

than the sometimes “‘very cliquish”’
sororities that could appear at W&L,
Pockrass said. “I think that when
sororities come, women will need an
alternative,” he said. There are cur-
rently three female members of the
group.

Freshman Elisabeth Fowler said
she became interested in Alpha Phi
Omega because she was interested in
community service. ‘‘In high school I
always did service-type projects,”
she said.

Although she has been to only a
couple of meetings, she said she is
planning to participate in a number
of the upcoming projects such as the
‘Hands Across Rockbridge.”’

‘‘T really want to do the Big Sister
deal,’ she adds. ‘‘Anything with
children would be great. I love kids.”

Another member of the group,
junior Bob Slappey, seems to share
the pleasure in doing community
work that the other members exhibit.
“It’s mostly for people who are look-
ing for a way to serve the communi-
ty, serve Lexington ... to get W&L in-
to the community,” he said.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

“We think that there are a lot of lit-
tle groups and a lot of larger groups
that we can help,”’ Slappey said. ‘“‘We
want toserve as muchas we can.”

He said that through Alpha Phi
Omega, he can give something back
to the school and community where
he has lived for the past three years.

Slappey noted there is a social
aspect to the group as well. He said
the U.Va. chapter strongly empha-
sizes social functions, something that
W&L’s chapter is trying to do.

“We try to get the social and the
service project together,’ he said,
adding that before the ‘Hands
Across Rockbridge’ project, the
group will hold a small party.

University Center Secretary Carol
A. Calkins, W&L’s alcohol committee
program coordinator, has benefited
from the service of Alpha Phi
Omega. During Alcohol Awareness
Week, members of the group put
small plastic garbage bags printed
with “I Cruise Without Booze’’ on
cars around campus.

“Their help was greatly apprecia-
ted,’ Calkins said. “I really think
they would help in the future.”

 

JIM HUMPHREYS

Lion to be
next year’s
Baby Dean

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Chris Lion, a public policy major
from O'Fallon, Ill., was named
“Baby Dean” last week, replacing
1985 Washington and Lee graduate
Bob Tomaso, who will pursue a law
degree next year at the University of
Virginia.

The Baby Dean job is an admis-
sions counselor position offered to a
graduating W&L senior for one or
two years.

Tomaso said the job entails quite a
bit of traveling and interviewing, but
“the bulk of the job is to read applica-
tions,”’

A successful Baby Dean is one who
has ‘‘some sort of experience of how
the University runs,’’ Tomaso said,
and is able to appreciate the different
backgrounds of people applying for
admission.

Tomaso said another important
facet of the job is serving as a “‘liason
between students and ‘the Hill.’ ’’ He
said he felt like he was ‘‘in limbo’,
between being a student and being an
administrator.

Both Tomaso and Lion said one of
the reasons they took the job was to
take a year to look at what they want-
ed to do with their post-college lives.

Tomaso said he would give himself
a B-minus for his work this year, ad-
ding that he ‘‘found the type of work
to be very, very interesting.”

Lion said he is looking forward to
traveling around the country talking
to high school students and inter-
viewing applicants here.

“W&L’s at the point where you
don’t need to be a salesman,”’ Lion
said, because the school’s strong
reputation sells itself. Lion said he
would be responsible mainly for
answering students’ questions about
the University.

Lion called the Baby Dean position
“a good job’’ and is looking forward
to starting work July 1.

Lion is a member of the Lambda
Chi Alpha social fraternity and co-
editor of the Washington and Lee
Political Review.

 

Novelist to speak Tuesday in Glasgow lecture series

 

Staff Reports

 

Novelist and short story writer Ernest J. Gaines will
present a reading from his works in the University
Library’s Northen Auditorium on Tuesday. Sponsored
by the Glasgow Endowment Lecture Series, the reading
will be at 4:30 p.m.

Born in 1933 on a plantation in Louisiana, Gaines
worked in the fields along with his father until the fami-
ly moved to California in 1948. His fictional subjects
center on black life in rural Louisisana and the effects
of racism on his characters. His novels include ‘‘Cath-
erine Carmier’’ (1964); ‘‘Of Love and Dust’’ (1967);
“The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman’ (1971);
‘Bloodline’ (1968), a collection of five stories; and ‘‘In
My Father’s House”’ (1978).

His most recent novel, ‘‘A Gathering of Old Men,”
published in 1983 by Knopf, has been acclaimed by
“Booklist” as ‘‘a poignant, powerful, and earthy novel
of southern racial confrontation.

Gaines received his bachelor of arts degree from San
Francisco State College. He did graduate study with
emphasis on the writing of fiction at Stanford Unviersi-
ty, where he received the Joseph Henry Jackson Liter-
ary Award in 1959.

Gaines currently divides his residency between San
Francisco and the University of Southwestern Loui-
siana in Lafayette, where he is a visiting professor in
creative writing.

 

The Glasgow Endowment Program was established
at W&L in 1960 by Arthur Graham Glasgow ‘‘to promote
the art of expression by pen and tongue.”

Washburn wins citation

William C. Washburn,
associate director of
development and former
alumni secretary at
Washington and Lee,
received the Lynchburg 7
Citation last Thursday dur- }
ing a banquet in Lynch-
burg.

The citation is presented
annually by the Lynchburg [7
alumni chapter. It is
generally regarded as the
most important honor a
W&L alumni chapter can
confer.

A 1940 graduate,
Washburn succeeded the
late Cy Young as alumni secretary in 1958. Under his
leadership, the number of alumni chapters more than
doubled and the University’s reunion programs were
greatly expanded

During Washburn’s tenure, W&L. instituted a Special

 

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN

 

Alumni Conference, an annual three-day program
designed to keep alumni informed about University af-
fairs; a series of awards annually given to distinguish-
ed alumni; and the W&L Alumni College. Washburn
was named associate director of development at W&L
in 1982 following his retirement as alumni secretary.

Oxford fellow to give lectures

Christopher Pelling, fellow in classics at University
College, Oxford, will present three lectures during the
spring term at Washington and Lee. The lectures are
sponsored by the W&L history department.

Pelling is teaching a course on the classical influence
on Shakespeare’s work during the W&L spring term. He
is also tutoring students in Roman history.

Last night, Pelling discussed ‘‘Antony and Cleopatra
in History and Legend.” Two weeks later, on May 14,
Pelling will speak on ‘‘Ancient Medicine: Magic, Super-
stition, and Science.”’ Pelling’s final lecture, on May 21,
is titled “Ancient Historiography: Truth, Fiction, and
Something in Between.”

All lectures are at 8 p.m. in Northen Auditorium in the
University Library. They are free and open to the
public

Pelling, a specialist in the work of the ancient
biographer, Plutarch, is a graduate of Balliol College,
Oxford, and is a former research fellow at Cambridge.
He is the author of a commentary on Plutarch’s bio-
graphy of Marc Antony and is writing the chapter on the
Roman Triumviral Period for the Cambridge Ancient
History. He has written a variety of articles on Plutar-
ch, Caesar, Horace, Tacitus, and on other topics of
Roman history. Pelling also serves as editor of the
Journal of Hellenic Studies.

New date for drug hearing set

The preliminary hearing for the nine Washington and
Lee students charged with drug possession has been
rescheduled for Tuesday May 13 in Lexington General
District Court.

The proceedings were put off after Commonwealth's
Attorney Beverly C. ‘John’ Read motioned to offer im-
munity from prosecution to two of the defendants in ex-
change for their testimony. This move took other at-
torneys by surprise and Judge Joseph E. Hess decided
to reschedule the hearing.

The nine students were arrested Jan. 12 on marijuana
possession charges. One of the nine subsequently was
charged with cocaine possession. This is the third time
the hearing has been postponed

 

 
 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

Betas help
move books

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Beta Theta Pi social fraternity
helped the Rockbridge Regional
Library move its books to its new

location at 138 S. Main St. last
Thursday

Sarah Wiant volunteered to be
the chairperson to organize the

move and said, ‘‘We couldn't have
done it without their help.”’

She said the project received
“extraordinary support’ from
both Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute

The move, which went on from
Thursday through Tuesday, was
undertaken by rotating crews of
30-35 people per day and included-
not only transporting all of the
library's books and any other
library materials, but also the
shelving

Beta member John Aleman said
approximately 45 members of the
fraternity volunteered.

Although the work was ‘“‘ted-
ious,’’ Aleman added that the fra-
ternity enjoyed performing the
community service.

Beta president Kirk Breen said
he was glad the fraternity could
help because, in addition to pro-

 

“bad
some
ment

  

PF i t;
TEE. |!

Wkdae

 

 

viding a service, it alleviates the

rap” he said fraternities get
times. This type of involve-
in the community shows that

fraternities are not just social

Benjamin L. Chapman (left) and Farris P. Hotchkiss move books

clubs, Breen added.

Library Director Linda Krantz
said the old Woody’s Chevrolet
building was converted into the
new library because the old build-

  

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

ing was too small.
The present building ‘doubles
the size of the library,” she added.
The new library will open Mon-
day morning.

 

 

 

 

What horses?

 

aah my :

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Freshman Alexa Salzman and senior Mike Guerriero try to get a better
vantage point to ‘‘see the horses” at the Foxfield races last Saturday. The
twice-yearly event, held near Charlottesville, usually attracts a good

number of Washington and Lee students.

Bartles & James
Wine Coolers

Cabana Potato C

hips

Buy One Get One Free

Busch or

Natural Light Beer.......................

Fresh Deli
rs...

Fresh Ripe
Cantaloupes

Congressmen and Pentagon faulted ©
at defense procurement symposium

 

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

Complicated, obsolete technology
and an officer corps drained of
talented combat leaders are among
the results of the defense buildup of
the past five years, contends defense
consultant Pierre Sprey. Sprey made
his remarks during a Contact '86
symposium on defense procurement
held in Lee Chapel on Friday.

The morning session of the sym-
poisum, after a brief address by each
member of the seven-member panel,
began with a discussion of the steps
involved in the development of a ma-
jor weapons system.

Sprey, who helped design the F-16
fighter plane, compared the methods
used to develop two different fight-
ers, the F-16 and the F-15. The F-15
was designed by the Air Force, while
the F-16 was desinged by a small
team of outside engineers. Sprey said
the fighter developed by the Air
Force was loaded down with techni-
cal gadgetry, and didn’t perform
nearly as well as the smaller, lighter
F-16.

Sprey said weapons developed by
the defense establishment are pro-
ducts of a complex interaction
among factions within the military.
The resulting weapon often is need-
lessly encumbered with technology
asa result, Sprey said.

Sprey continued to criticize the
weapons developed by the defense es-
tablishment, citing the case of the M-
1 battle tank. Developed by the Ar-
my, Sprey said the weapon was filled
with fancy techonology.

Under Secretary of the Army
James R. Ambrose said the Army
was “trying to keep with the actual
Soviet threat’’ by continuing to
develop the tank. Ambrose said the
technology is necessary for survival
on the modern battlefield.

 

E. Nelson St.,

463-3146

 

Rep. Denny Smith, R-Ore., criticiz-
ed the practice of buying weapons
that have not been subjected to pro-
per testing or developed by two firms
competing for a contract. Smith said
the DIVAD (Division Air Defense)
was a good example of this problem.

DIVAD, also known as the ‘Sgt.
York” gun, was developed to defend
troops and tanks from enemy air-
craft. The weapon consists of a 40mm
cannon mounted on a M-48 tank
chassis, and cost about $5 million
each. Smith said he could throw a
heavy machine gun on an armored
pickup truck and have just as effec-
tive a weapon. DIVAD was plagued
by serious technical problems and
was cancelled before pr a
could begin, but not before $1.6 billion
was spent on research, Smith said.

Other defense procurement pro-
blems discussed were the complexity
of today’s weapons, the need for
more thorough testing of weapons,
and the lack of competition in expen-
sive weapons systems.

Wolfgang Reuter, a naval archi-
tect, emphasized the complexity of a
modern ship and noted that overhaul
costs may be more than the original
price of the vessel. Smith said the
services should go back to a “‘fly-
before-you-buy’’ testing philosophy.
Sprey said the defense bureaucracy
ensures that certain defense contrac-
tors will never go bankrupt, destroy-
ing the idea of a free market and
competition.

Another possible problem in the
weapons procurement process was
brought up by Charles C. Thompson,
senior investigative producer for the
ABC News show ‘‘20/20.’’ Thompson
said weapons producers weren't
thinking about the users of their pro-
ducts — the servicemen who have to
fight with the equipment.

Sprey said “operational people
rarely get listened to.’”’ Sprey again
criticized the emphasis on complex
weapons with the example of U.S.

Racin’

 

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

 

Several Washington and Lee pro-
fessors and staff members are trans-
forming themselves into pavement-
pounders, river rats, and road-racers
in preparation for the 11th Annual
Lexington Road and River Relay this
Saturday.

The two faculty teams from W&L
are competing in a record field of 50
teams in the 16-mile running, canoe-
ing and bicycling relay sponsored by
Domino’s Pizza and The Rockbridge
Weekly.

The ‘‘U-Relators,’”’ consisting of
W&L Sports Information Director
Mark D. Mandel, Associate Alumni
Director Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins,
University Editor Jeffery G. Hanna,
and religion Professor Harlan R.
Beckley, were persuaded by team
captain Brian D. Shaw, Director of

 

 

Added cable channels
get favorable reaction

 

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

Are you tired of watching the same
old TV stations? The same rerun
movies and syndicated shows? Cheer
up, because the Lexington Cable
Company has recently announced
that it is expanding its service to in-
clude six new stations, a new movie
channel and the Disney channel.

Although it is uncertain whether
the new movie station will be
Showtime or Cinemax, the new TV
stations are confirmed as MTV, USA,
Nashville Network, C-Span, Arts &
Entertainment and the Health Sta-
tion.

Juanita Hamm of Lexington Cable
said there were no problems getting
the music video channel or any of the
other stations. ‘“‘The parent company
at Winchester formulated the pro-
gram,”’ she said, ‘‘ and city council
passed it.”

Lexington City Council member
Taylor G. Woody said, ‘‘Everything
met the requirements; it was OK so
we passed it.”’

Hamm said the new stations will be
added over the summer, in plenty of
time for the new school year .

With the added service, sub-
scribers can expect to pay an addi-
tional two dollars a month for basic

service and about $10 per special ser-

Navy ships off the coast of Lebanon
in 1982. Sprey said the ships would
have no way to destroy a Piper Cub
airplane making a low-level suicide
attack.

The role of the news media also
was discussed during the sympo-
sium. Thompson said people want a
strong national defense but feel that
money is being wasted. Smith said
unfavorable test results of certain
weapons systems have been classi-
fied to hide the program’s bad poor
performance from the public.

Smith gave Congress a share of the
blame for the state of defense pro-
curement. “‘Congressmen try to pro-
tect their interests by keeping jobs in
their districts,’ he said. Sprey
criticized the employement of politi-
cal action committees to advance the
causes of defense contractors, and
the practice of spreading subcontract
work throughout many congressional
districts in order to win votes for
weapons programs.

John Falk, a senior politics major
from Great Falls, thought of the idea
for the symposium this summer.
Falk worked as an intern for Rep.
James Kolbe, R-Ariz., and helped
draft legislation dealing with pro-
curement issues. Falk gained sup-
port for the symposium last fall, and
asked Kolbe to moderate the debate.
Smith, the co-chairman of the
Military Reform Caucus, was asked
to participate around that time. Both
Kolbe and Smith are members of the
group.

The caucus was formed in 1981 by
Sen. Gary Hart, D-Colo., and Rep. G.
William Whitehurst, R-Va., John
Huebusch, legislative director for
Smith, said the group has 133 mem-
bers at the present time, and is split
evenly between Democrats and
“Republicans. Huebusch said the cau-

‘cus is trying to ‘‘increase the national
defense capability of the United
States at reasonable cost.’’ The
group has sponsored legislation to in-

Faculty, staff sport two teams
for 16-mile road and river relay

the News Office, to enter the relay.
“Our only goal to finish and not em-
barrass ourselves,’’ Shaw said.

“Diminishing Faculties’ team
members include Robert E. Danford
of the University Library, history
Professor J. Holt Merchant, English
Professor James P. Warren,
economics Professor Car! P. Kaiser,
and team captain, Associate Dean of
Students Michael A. Cappeto.

Athletic Director William D. Mc-
Henry and Assistant Lacrosse Coach
Darren F. Lawlor were planning to
have a team this year but fell short
on manpower.

McHenry has competed in the race
three times, and three years ago he
completed the entire relay on his own
for his 50th birthday with his wife,
Joan, helping in the canoe.

The race begins at 11:30 a.m. on
the Virginia Military Institute foot-
ball field. One team member makes
the three-mile run to Bean’s Bottom
where he is met by a bicyclist who

allan

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

vice channel.

Hamm said the cable company will
offer a student discount for summer
service. If students do not want to
disconnect their cable over the sum-
mer, they will receive one free month
of basic cable. She said that Lex.
ington Cable will also offer a $15 dis-
count for Home Box Office during the
summer.

Student reaction to the announced
increase in service has been very
good. People have especially been
pleased with the additional movie
channel and the increased choice the ;
new service will bring.

According to Mike Guerriero, a
senior economics major, “Dean At- :
wood has taught us that everything is
based on supply and demand; there »
is definitely a demand.”

Junior Graham Loomis expressed
his hopes for evening television.
“There are just some slow nights
when you want adult entertainment,
and HBO doesn’t start adult pro- ,
gramming till nine,” he said. ‘Shows
like Fragglerock are sometimes not *
what I want to watch.”’

Sophomore Phil Sherril sain. “1
just want more John Wayne.” '

Some students said they believe the ,
increased programming will help
cable sales. Freshman Johnny Sar- *
ber explained, “If Lex Cable offers ,

me a wider selection of channels, I
would bea Lex Cablesubscriber.” +

- +

ad

 

 

JOHN FALK

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
    

crease testing, competition, and start
cost analysis on weapons systems.

Sprey, who helped develop several
important weapons systems, is a
leader. in the military reform move-¢
ment. The movement is a widely var-
ied group of dissenters drawn from
the defense establishment. Sprey @
said the movement is trying to,
change what it sees as the American
fixation on the ‘‘attrition’’ method of #
warfare. 9

Writers within the movement have
criticized the officer education —
system, the structure and equipment }
of the military. The reform move-
ment has al to determine what stra-
tegy the United States needs to adopt
to preserve its national interests.

Capt. Robert C. Peniston, director
of Lee Chapel, also participated in
the discussion, substituting for
Everett Pyatt, assistant secretary of
the Navy, who cancelled his ap-
pearance. Peniston is a retired U.S.
Navy officer who commanded sever-
al vessels during his career.

~~ _ —_—

  

rides a ten-mile loop. One or two" |
other team-members then will pad-s |
dle a canoe down the Maury River to t '
Jordan’s Point, where the final run-~ |
ner will travel the Woods Creek trail #
to the VMI tennis courts and back to w |
Jordan’s Point for the finish of the |
relay. vy]

|

The race was started in 1976 in con- .
junction with the America Bicenten- * |
nial festivities in Lexington and has » |
grown steadily in popularity. This
year for the first time the number of “
entries has reached its limit of 50% | *%
teams.

Some of the professors indicated’ | °
they were intimidated by the influx of ,
competitors from outside the Rock-
bridge County area, but all plan to |
finish their leg of the race. a)

According to chairman of the race *
committee, and Andy Hunter of the, | ,
Lexington Bike Shop, the relay has
two parts, the sweating and splash- ° |
ing of the actual race, and the contes- | ,
tant’s

beer party that follows. mi,

q

a

~—s
     

a
y
+

“

-_ Se

_*

¢

 

 

 

Fiery oratory

This week is 30th anniversary

of death at Mock Convention

By BRIAN D. SHAW

‘ W&L News Office

 

Alben W. Barkley, vice president
under Harry Truman and two-time
U.S. senator from Kentucky, was

* known for his fiery oratorical skills.
, “The old firehorse,” as he was call-

ed, could stimulate any crowd with
his deft combination of down-home
wit and inspiring pronouncements.
Barkley was at his oratorical best
30 years ago this week, when he
delivered the keynote speech at

"Washington and Lee’s Mock Conven-

tion. The Kentucky Democrat drew
loud applause and shouts of approval
from the predominantly Republican
crowd as he chastised Dwight
Eisenhower and the Grand Old Party
for its lack of reforms and progress.

The 78-year-old senator then re-
counted his political career, and how
he moved from a county attorney in
rural Kentucky to junior senator to
vice president and back to junior
senator. He told the students he
wasn’t interested anymore in gaining
political power.

“‘T would rather be a servant in the
house of the Lord,’’ Barkley intoned,
pausing for effect, ‘‘than sit in the

seats of the mighty.”’

Then he collapsed. A short time
later, Barkley was pronounced dead
by Dr. Robert Munger, a Lexington
physician who was summoned to the
scene.

Barkley’s collapse and death stun-
ned the packed hall at Doremus
Gym. John K. Jennings, a senior
journalism major in 1956, was cover-
ing Barkley’s speech for a local radio
station. On Jennings’ tape of the
speech, the sound of Barkley’s col-
lapse is loud and noticeable, then the
obviously nervous young man began
his commentary in a halting voice.

“Senator Barkley has just collaps-
ed,” Jennings said. ‘‘He is being fan-
ned ... A doctor is being summoned ...
There is just an air of disbelief.’’

Today, Jennings is head of the
W&L journalism department. He vi-

vidly remembers that sweltering day
30 years ago.

“Barkley had really gotten the
students worked up in a way you
wouldn't expect from a largely
Republican student body,’’ he said.
“He was responding to their en-
thusiasm. Then, he turned ashen and
slumped down,”’

The students, both around Barkley
and in the hall, were ‘‘scared to
death,”’ Jennings said.

As a doctor arrived at the platform
and started to administer oxygen, the
media in attendance began scram-
bling to get photos and footage of the
fallen senator. That, Jennings said, is
when the “taste vigilantes” took

over.
Students in the audience, he said,

physically restrained photographers

from taking pictures of Barkley as he

was slumped on the floor of the stage.

Jerry Bartmess, a photographer

from WDBJ-7 in Roanoke who is still

employed at the station, remembers

the scenario.

“It was pandemonium,” Bartmess ”
recalled. ‘I was across the hall. I had
my camera shut down because I had
only about a minute’s worth of film
left. I shot some footage of the
students fanning Barkley, then they
held up their banners and placards in
front of the camera.

_ “John Gilbert, from WSLS [the
NBC affiliate in Roanoke] was pin-
ned against the wall by some stu-
dents and prevented from taking
photos. When I think about it now, I
understand why the students kept us
from shooting footage, but it was dis-
concerting to us because we were
just trying to do our job. After we
calmed down we understood it was a
natural response.”’

All that remains of the event is Jen-
nings’ audio recording of the speech

and collapse, and some film of Bark- -

ley speaking before he was stricken,
and students fanning the senator
when he was prone on the floor.

The confrontation between stu-
dents and the media touched off a
debate on the rights of the media and

the question of taste in covering such
an unusual event. In an editorial that
appeared shortly after Barkley’s
death, the Roanoke Times criticized
the students for their censoring ac-
tions,

“The interference appeared not to
be the result of restrictions imposed
by school officials,’ the Times said.
“Rather it was the action of self-ap-
pointed censors among the students.
We believe their zeal exceeded their
judgment and that this sort of censor-
ship is not condoned by the majority
of W&L students.”

Letters to the student newspaper,
The Ring-tum Phi, indicate other-
wise.

“Any difficulties experienced by
the press were, unfortunately,
brought upon themselves by their
own lack of discretion and callous
behavior,” one student wrote.

“Our action in restraining the
photographers is commendable,”
wrote another.

The Mock Convention was suspend-
ed for a week following Barkley’s
death. At Mrs. Barkley’s urgings, it
was resumed, with Adlai Stevenson
and Frank Clement receiving the
nomination. Truman dedicated a pla-
que commemorating Barkley’s death
in Doremus Gym when he visited
Lexington for the 1960 Mock Conven-
tion.

Aside from the commotion follow-
ing Barkley’s collapse, Jennings best
remembers Mrs. Barkley’s control
and aplomb throughout the ordeal.

“T remember someone suggesting
to Mrs. Barkley after his collapse
that the senator was probably sitting
at the right hand of the Lord,”’ Jen-
nings said. ‘‘ ‘No,’ she replied. ‘He’s
probably standing at the gate telling
St. Peter stories.’ ”’

Brian D. Shaw was the Shenandoah
_ Bureau Chief for the Roanoke Times &

World-News and an education writer for
the Greensboro (N.C.) Daily News
before becoming W&L’s News Office
Director in the summer of 1985.

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

An Interfraternity Council pie-
eating contest, with all proceeds
benefitting Multiple Sclerosis, will
be held at halftime of Saturday’s
home lacrosse game against Loy-
ola College. Fraternities are re-
minded that $25 entry fees
(checks made out to Blue Ridge
Chapter, NMSS) should be turned
in to Janet Goad at Evans Dining
Hall or to Chris Saxman by tomor-
row at noon.

The Washington and Lee aqua-
tics program is offering swim-
ming lessons to area residents
three years of age and older dur-
ing the weeks of May 5 to 9 and 12
to 16. Two classes will be offered
each day, from 4 p.m. to 4:25 and
4:35 to5.

Registration and water evalua-
tion will be Saturday at 10 a.m. at
W&L’s Cy Twombly Pool in the
Warner Center.

The cost is $15 per program, and
the program include Beginners
(three levels), Advanced (three
levels), Mommy and Mee (ages 3
to 5 with mother), Aquatic games-

 

CLASSIFIEDS;

Gold Card Program (swimmer
level and above), and Life Saving
(depending on interest).

For further details, contact
Page Remillard at 463-8693.

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s final program of the
1985-86 season will be a double
feature.

The program will begin at 8
p.m. Friday and Saturday in
Classroom “A” in Lewis Hall.
There is no charge for admission.

The feature attraction will be
Woody Allen’s extraordinary
“Zelig” (1983), a work that is best
categorized as a kind of fictional
documentary. Woody Allen por-
trays Leonard Zelig, a ‘“‘human
chameleon’’ who is so insecure, so
neurotic, that be becomes a mir-
ror of people and events around
him. Set in the 1920s and ’30s, the
film is a technical tour-de-force,
as Zelig/Allen appears in
newsreel footage in the company
of celebrities from Babe Ruth to
Adolf Hitler. This film is very
original and, as are all of Allen’s
works, very entertaining.

The opening film will be an
award-winning “short subject’’
titled ‘“‘Hardware Wars.”’ This

popular parody of ‘Star Wars”
(the film, not the high-tech
defense system) uses ordinary
household appliances to create its
“‘special effects.”’

The United Daughters of the
Confederacy has two scholarships
available to Washington and Lee
women for $1,000 and $300 for next
school year. The $300 scholarship
is also open to men. Applicants |
must be lineal descendants of Con-
federate veterans. Information
and applications are available in
the Financial Aid Office in

‘Washington Hall.

The University Library has
raised its fine for overdue books
that have been recalled from 25
cents a day to$ia day.

FOR SALE

1982 HONDA PASSPORT CY-
CLE. $450, excellent condition,
1,000 miles. Gets great mileage
and requires almost no mainte-
nance. Price includes front and
rear baskets and helmet. Call
463-3962.

 

 

    

 

The Finishing Touch

For All Your Typing Needs

463-1622

Old Main Street Mall

 

165 S. Main

 

paffmaE [hit Florist

Make Your Mother’s Day,
Send A Big Bouquet!

Don’t forget: May Ll

463-9152

 

 

be sinictaniheoe ne abt A thts tei Cini iN eos

q

 

 

Summer Fall Spring

WASHINGTON
OR LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

OXFORD ““36"

Full Academic Years In

© Oxford University
°L.S.E.
e St. Andrews, Scotland

U.S. credits will be transferred
through Hampden-Sydney
College, founded in Virginia by
James Madison in 1776.
Graduate work is an option.
The Director of Studies for the
Center for Quality Education
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt.
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt.
(Oxon.), Fellow of the British
Academy, Professor Emeritus
of Government and Fellow of
All Souls, Oxford.
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK, J.D.,
Admissions Director CQEA/
WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St.,
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0804/7 24-0136).

(EO/AA)

 

 

 

 

 

Blast

©) Continued from Page 1

 

warning sirens were added to pre-
vious safety measures. Those sirens
now sound a minute before an explo-
sion as a signal for students in the
dormitories to back away from win-
dows.

Beebe called the flying debris a
“freak thing’ because blasting pads
are being used to muffle the explo-
sions.

Meanwhile, students have found a
variety of ways to escape the noise.
Many are now studying in the libr-
ary, and some have moved in with
friends in quieter areas, Huntley
said.

Students are still not used to the
blasts.

“We've been shell-shocked," said
freshman Bill Crabill, who lives in
Davis. ‘‘It shakes the whole ground.
It literally blew me out of my bed one
morning.”

Radar

() Continued from Page 1

 

 

radar devices are completely off
when shut off and have several dif-
ferent bands,” Hines explained.

Detectors are not fault proof. Many
have been known to give false warn-

ings when interfered with by other _

detectors, security systems, micro-
wave signals, and even garage door
openers.

And use of the detectors is certain-
ly no guarantee that you won't
get a speeding ticket. Sometimes
they just don’t provide sufficient
warning, although the newer multi-
band models with their longer ranges
and ability, in many cases, to receive
radar signals around corners and
over hills are significantly more
reliable.

Still Hines doesn’t consider radar
detectors as much of a threat. New
advances in radar technology have
given the state police ‘‘an equal shot”
he said. The development of laser
radar systems shows promise as
well.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986, Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Extra long?

Senior Class President Townes Pressler tries on a jacket at the Alvin-
Dennis clothes store on Washington St. during a sale for Washington and Lee
seniors. Both Alvin-Dennis and the College Town Shop on Nelson Street have
held the annual sales for 10 years. The sales, held at the same time at the
competing stores, were Monday, and another will be held on Monday, May
26. Alvin Carter, owner of Alvin-Dennis, said the sales have been a ‘‘very
successful tradition.”

 

PRE-

It’s Easy To Qualify

@ You must receive at least a
bachelor’s degree or a state RN
license between October 1,
1985 and September 30, 1986.

@ You must have verifia‘le
employment that begins within
120 days of your qualifying
vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary liv-
ing expenses and your vehicle
payment.

® Your credit record, if you
have one, must indicate pay-
ment made as agreed.

Ford Motor
Credit

 

 

 

Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri,

approved credit is determined

Ford

2018 Forest Ave.
Buena Viste

GRADUATES

COURTESY

Ford ¢ Mercury

HAS YOUR

PROVED

CREDIT FROM
FORD CREDIT

PLUS $400
THE PURCHASE OF A NEW FORD

TOWARD

These Vehicles Are
Included In The Plan
Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird
Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II,
Ranger, F-150 & F-250

by the qualifying vehicle you buy,
and you are eligible for the $400
directly from Ford even if you
don’t finance your purchase.
Make your best deal and you can
use the $400 toward your down
payment or get a check from
Ford after the purchase or lease.

Cougar ; :
¢ Hurry. If a vehicle is not in

dealer stock it must be ordered
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of
all vehicles must be taken by
August 31, 1986. See your par-
ticipating dealer for complete
program details.

The amount of your pre-

 

 

Mercury

261-2112
DL 1916

 

 

 

 

Oo

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

Netmen take another title,
jump to fourth in nation

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

After completing its eighth week of
play, which included winning its sec-
ond straight Old Dominion Athletic
Conference crown and moving up in
the national rankings from fifth to
fourth, the Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team has taken further
steps towards the NCAA Division III
national championships.

In addition to winning the ODAC
championships, the Generals lost a
close 5-4 match to Virginia, on Mon-
day, and defeated Radford, 9-0, on
Tuesday

Generals doubies teams sopho
more David McLeod and Messerly at
No. 1, Mize and Matthews at No. 2
and Wiman and Adams at No. 3
were crowned champs. Head coach
Gary Franke was named ODAC
Coach-of-the-Year

“Obviously, we would have prefer
red to take all nine flights,’ Franke
said, “but I think we handled the
pressure of being expected to win
well.”

On Monday the Generals were a
doubles match away from beating
their Charlottesville rivals. After
singles competition the match was
all tied up, 3-3. The Generals could
pick up only one doubles victory at

4, for the offical word on nationals
Team members will be awaiting the
decision with much less consterna
tion than last year, when the
Generals were ranked eighth, and
knew that they had only a slim
chance at making the tournament
Given that the Generals do get the
bid, they will undergo two more
weeks of intensive training

‘We look forward to the challenge
of nationals,’ Franke said. ‘hopeful
of the bid. We'll be working real
hard over the next two weeks to im
prove our games and get ready for
that tournament.’

The Generals powered their way the No. 2 slot of Mize and Matthews. _ Results
through eight of the nine singles The match went down to the wire, a Singles
‘ No. 1 — Pete Moran (Lynchburg) def. David

flights that they won at the ODACs,
not losing a single set and winning a
total of 24 matches. W&L won the ti-
tle with a total of 71 points, followed
by Hampden-Sydney (52), Lynch-
burg (48), Emory and Henry (47),
Randolph-Macon (44), Roanoke (28),
Bridgewater (19) and Maryville (15).

Singles champions for the Generals
included No. 2 Roby Mize, No. 3 Bob-
by Matthews, No. 4 Chris Wiman, No.
5 Jack Messerly and No. 6 captain
Scott Adams. All three of the

three-set match at No. 3 with the
Cavaliers victorious, 6-3, 6-7, 6-3.

Coach Franke commented on the
match saying, ‘“‘We came real close
to beating a good Virginia team. We
had real nice wins from Matthews,
Mize and Scott Adams.”’

Against Radford on Tuesday the
Generals had little trouble obtaining
the shutout victory.

The Generals must now wait until
the conference call on Sunday, May

=

McLeod (W&L) 6-4, 61, No. 2 Roby Mize
(W&L) def. Fred Lawson (LC) 6-3, 6-4. Bobby
Matthews (W&L) def. Brad King (Hampden-Syd
ney) 6-0, 6-4. No. 4 — Chris Wiman (W&L) def
Scott Heidler (H-S) 6-0, 6-0. No.5 — Jack Messerly
(W&L) def. Jon Looney (Emory and Henry) 6-0
6-1. No. 6 — Scott Adams (W&L) def. Kirby Arnall
(H-S) 6-1, 6-1
Doubles

No. 1 David McLeod-Messerly (W&L) def
Geoff Koslow-Pete Adeson (Randolph-Macon)
6-1, 6-1. No. 2 — Mize-Matthews (W&L) def. John
Donelson-Heidler (H-S) 7-5, 6-1. No. 3 — Adams
Wiman (W&L) def. Harry Thompson-Jack von
Maur (H-S) 6-3, 6-1

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

David McLeod returns oyerhead in the ODAC No. 1 doubles championship

Division III’s best hand lacrossers two tough defeats; W&L now 5-6

 

ted

W&L’s Keith Scott and Chris John (32) sandwich Washington’s Brian Kelleher

Thinclads short of crown
despite taking five firsts

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

It came down to the final event, but
when it was over the Washington and
Lee track team came up a step slow
and an inch short in finishing second
to Lynchburg in the Old Dominion

Athletic Conference championships. senior Chris Bleggi, who competed was the disqualification of the mile W&L soccer coach Rolf Piranian ticipation. may se out the club’s equip-
while suffering from a fever. He took relay team. urges fauhd ment which includes tents, back-

nm 4 : ‘ vee : : ges everyone in the Washington ; ; .
The Generals piled up 138 team first in the 100 meters with a time of | After finishing second to Lyn- and Lee community to stag The first trip that the club has packs, stoves, cooking utensils,

points to Lynchburg’s 152. The rest of
the field was Roanoke (90), Bridge-
water (70), Emory and Henry (62)
and Eastern Mennonite (9).

 

Aldridge said there is no NCAA row. overnight trip to St. Mary’s Gorge the club’ ae ak
“] thought we could have won it,” Sophomore Andy White set a school ule regarding such incidents, but he . flay : fee tie eee :
head coach Norris Aldridge said. record witha time of 14.8 seconds in did not file a protest because it would One does ms have to bea club on ~ ee genie y erst Piranian at his office on the fifth ‘
“There were some areas where we the 110-meter hurdles, good enough not have changed the outcome of the member to check out equipment ing to Piranian, the club has no floor of the Warner Center, ¢
meet
. So eerccccccccccccccvccccccesees ¥
SERVIITAR. toc ie i
« e
23S. Main Large House In The Country : Read The $ 4
Lexington, Va. 24450 Ee uu : :
ETM hy.) Call ° ace ifi e -
Lexington Hardware rey) OP TERM Pl : Classifieds :
463-2242 tn TT eo Lexington, VA 24450 463-251 8 rccsnebubbsebtaadabbabdensaceil

 

 

 

did what we should’ve done and some
where we didn’t.”

One of the good areas was on the
track, where the Generals took first
in five of 10 events, the most W&L has
ever won at the championships.

“We had some outstanding perfor-
mances,’’ Aldridge said.

One of those was turned in by

10.7 seconds and second in the 200
meters with a personal best of 22.4
seconds. He also anchored the first-
place 440-yard relay team

for first place. He also took first in
the 400-meter intermediates

Freshman Jamie Urso took first in
the 800 meters with a time of 1:51.8

On the field the Generals came up
with only one first place junior
Matt Steilberg’s 13-foot pole vault.

Freshman Fray McCormick took
second in the high jump with a per-
sonal best of 6 feet, seven inches. The
winner cleared that height also, but
McCormick had more misses and
was awarded second.

One incident that added to the
disappointment but not to the loss

chburg, Chris McGowan threw his
baton, causing the judges to give the
victory to Lynchburg

 

‘tha .
‘é ep

 

By Perry 8. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

By DAVID EMRICH

 

 

 

All those interested in the great
outdoors, take heed.

The Outing Club’s supervisor,

vantage of the three scheduled
spring trips and the recreational
equipment that anyone can bor-

 

finally got it back and then we lost it ’

 

Assistant Sports Editor again.”
W&L did get close, scoring Six 4
Last week was one best forgotten unanswered goals of its own down the :
by the Washington and Lee lacrosse stretch. But the Maroons got a late %
team. They began the week with a 5-4 goal to close out the upset. a.
record, and two games against rank- Saturday, at Wilson Field against
ed Division III foes in store. The out- ‘he Washington College Shoremen, r
come of the games was not as they he Generals fell just a single goal
hoped. short of victory against Division III’s =~
_. second-ranked team, 11-10. 4
Yesterday, for the second time in The Generals came up with some «

four days, W&L lacrosse lost to a
Division III opponent, this time the
defeat was at the hands of crossstate
rival Roanoke, by the score of 17-14.

“We LOST the game,”’ said Gen-
eral’s head coach Dennis Daly after
the game, the second consecutive
loss to Roanoke, the nations eighth-
ranked Division III team.

The turning point of the game may
have come in the second period.
After W&L had built a 5-3 lead early
in the second period, one of the
Maroon’s players was called off-
sides.

Roanoke Coach John Pirro dis-
agreed with the close call and pro-
tested so loudly that he earned a one-
minute unsportsmanlike conduct
penalty.

The result of all this was one
minute of extra-man offense for
W&L, the first thirty-seconds of
which would be with a two-man ad-
vantage.

The Maroons managed to kill the
entire penalty, and the effort ap-
parently got them fired up.

Roanoke, following their effort on
the penalty, outscored the Generals
13-1 to build a 16-6 lead early in the
third period before W&L began to get
back into the game.

“We lost our composure for a good
part of the game,” said Daly. “We

or go on trips. ‘‘We do not have a
set membership,” Piranian said.

He said that the club’s leader-
ship, President Eric Faber and
Vice-Presidents Noor Ampssler
and Mark Churchill, organize
trips that will attract student par-

scheduled this spring will be a day
hike at Shenandoah National
Park. The club has planned a
canoe outing for May 17 and an

great individual performances. Fore-
most were efforts by goalie John

Church and attackman Caulley Der- *

inger. Church had 22 saves and,
along with defenseman Chris John,
was named Defensive Player-of-the-
Game.

Caulley Deringer, co-awarded Of-
fensive Player-of-the-Game honors
with midfielder Todd Briedhaupt,
scored three goals. Deringer added
five scores against Roanoke.

“T expected that type of a game.
You make mistakes in the game of
lacrosse,” said Daly. ‘‘In that par-
ticular one both teams were good
enough to find 21 mistakes on each
other, so it was an 11-10 game ... it
was a good lacrosse game.”’

The Generals play host to Loyola
on Saturday at Wilson Field. W&L
knocked Loyola out of contention for
a Division I tournament bid last year.
The stage is set for a repeat perfor-
mance this year as Loyola enters the
game as the 11th-ranked squad in the
nation.

But Daly admitted the Roanoke
loss would pose a tough mental hur-
dle for W&L, ‘‘because it was disap-
pointing, not that we lost but how we
lost.”

canner ee eee rece aa

Outing Club offers trips back to nature,
plus hiking gear on loan at no charge

decided upon any specific costs.
He did say that the university will
provide transportation when pos-
sible and that any cost that a stu-
dent might encounter will be mini-
mal.

Anyone in the W&L community

sleeping bags and a limited supply
of rock climbing equipment, free
of charge.

Anyone who wants to check out

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

+

eeoe*aig¢ete# &

[eh 6S

a
yg ny

“~eenr= - &

> aA (AN porrraits! :

In Living Color

10 Resumes $599

2-9x7
2- 8x10 Couples Welcome!

Expires May 11, Mon.-Sat., 10-6, Sun, 12-5
7S Se el eM ee C0 01) a ae Se eH Re Ste

Valley True Value Hardware Geiser Maple Hall ;

New Hours
Wednesday -Saturday: 5:00-10:00
Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00

NEW EXPANDED MENU
Ala Carte Pricing

Reservations Suggested—

Call 463-6693

       
  
 

 

\ ie
COUNTRY

HAROWARE STORES rine

All
For

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

 

 

Rcihernnmnanesniicinea

 

 
   

 

Olympic help

U.S. water polo coach barnstorms for sport at W&L

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

Former United States Olympic water polo coach
Monte Nitzkowski conducted a seminar for water
polo players from Lynchburg College and
en and Lee yesterday at the Cy Twombly
pool.
Nitzkowski, a former Olympic backstroker, was
in Lexington as part of a 60-school tour, to “na-
tionalize the sport” and teach players fundamen-
tal water polo skills, he said.

Nitzkowski said he has been on the road since
early February, touring schools on the West Coast

_ and in the Midwest. He took 10 days off and has

¢
r
¢
4

*

 

 

been on the East Coast since April 2nd.

Working with over 1500 players — from third-
graders to 40-year-olds — Nitzkowsi said his cam-
paign has been successful.

He said since starting his trek, six schools have
joined the ranks of NCAA water polo. Nitzkowski
said the success of U.S. teams in future years
depends on getting ‘‘as many schools as we can in-
tothe NCAA.”

Being able to offer a $6,000 grant for teams who
join the NCAA has been a boon to his efforts, Nitz-
kowski said. Schools joining get $3,000 the first
yee they play, $2,000 the second and $1,000 the
third.

The six teams that joined the NCAA raised the
number of participating schools from 51 to 57,
Nitzkowski said, and added tha* he expects
several more to join before the end of May.

Because there were so few schools playing
water polo in the early 70’s, the U.S. lost a great
chance to capitalize on the bronze medal the U.S.
team won in the 1972 Summer Olympics, Nitz-
kowski said.

California schools have been perennial water
polo champs because “‘they really got it rolling in
the [high] schools,’’ Nitzkowski said.

Washington & Lee water polo coach Page Rem-
illard said Nitzkowski’s tour is helping to solidify
the existing water polo organizations as well as
adding new schools.

Nitzkowski said he has worked with schools

vo

where there is ‘‘pure grass-roots development’,

 

 

 

 

 

Ws

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi ~

 

Nitzkowski and Remillard show players at yesterday’s clinic how to do it

like Wake Forest, to established teams like
W&L’s.

Remillard said another important aspect of
Nitzkowski’s trip is that there will now be ‘one
person who can speak an represent what is hap-
pening nationally”’ in water polo.

In addition, Nitzkowski’s efforts to establish
regional championships like those in NCAA Divi-
sion I basketball would provide ‘‘the goals and ob-
jectives’’ coaches need to produce high-quality
teams, Remillard said. Such regional champion-
ships would bring polo powerhouses like the Uni-
versity of California-Long Beach and the Univer-

sity of Southern California to the East Coast to
play.

Nitzkowski’s seven-hour clinic yesterday cover-
ed many basic strategies of the game.

Sophomore Simon Perez said the game plan
Nitzkowski taught was ‘‘the same type of thing”
Remillard uses.

“T know it helped out a lot with our freshmen’’
who have had one season under their belt, added
junior Kevin Lederer.

But Nitzkowski’s mission is more than in-
dividual improvement.

“It is critical that the universities of this nation
play the Olympic sports,”’ he said.

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

They have nothing to be ashamed
of.

In athletics, most people feel that
winning is everything and that sec-
ond-place is for losers. The Washing-
ton and Lee men’s golf team couldn’t
have proved them more wrong.

The scoreboard says that Hamp-
den-Sydney took the championship in
this week’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament by three
strokes over W&L, 644-647, but it

Ninth-inning rally ends

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee Baseball
team blew a 3-1 ninth inning lead in
dropping a 4-3 decision at Hampden-
Sydney in the quarter-final round of
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Tournament yesterday.

The Generals are thereby knocked
out of the single-elimination playoff
tournament.

Head Coach Jim Murdock’s reac-
tion to the defeat was one of disgust.

‘We stank,” he asserted, ‘we
played horrible in the clutch and
made a bunch of mental mistakes,
too.”

Murdock praised the pitching of
Bill Schoettelkotte, who went eight
strong innings. He cited inexperience
for the absence of clutch play.

W&L had a chance to put the game

Lady netters win respect, gain consos at

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team concluded its inaugural
season last weekend at Hollins Col-
lege with a ninth place finish in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
tournament.

The Generals finished ahead of
Roanoke in the 10-team conference
tournament while Emory and Henry
and Hollins tied for first place.
Emory & Henry is contesting the tie

doesn’t tell the whole story. The
Generals were leading through most
of the second round of the two-day
tourney when the Tiger’s Sam Wal-
lace took matters into his own hands
and single-handedly defeated W&L.
Finishing with a 75, Wallace, who
was named ODAC Player-of-the-
Year, came through in the clutch and
dampened some of the great individ-
ual efforts made by the Generals.
Seniors Greg Wheeler (78-78) and
Jeff Kimbell (83-79), who both cap-
tured All-ODAC honors, led the way
for W&L. The Generals got off to a
slow start with a first round total of

out of reach in its tworun eighth, but
opportunities to add to its lead came
up short. First, on a fake squeeze
play, Harry Halpert was gunned
down at the plate. Later that same
frame, Bill Curtiss popped into a
double-play on an attempted
squeeze-play. Hampden-Sydney
came back to score three the follow-
ing inning on a walk, a double, a tri-
ple and a bases loaded bunt single.

Earlier in the week, the Generals
had closed out their regular cam-
paign by losing two out of three
games.

Radford topped W&L on Saturday
by a 3-1 score. The Generals rebound-
ed Sunday to whip Christopher New-
port 5-2, led by Milam Turner’s four-
hit effort. Kirk Breen went the
distance to record his first mound
victory of the campaign. The Gen-
erals were then shellacked on Tues-
day by VMI, 28-17.

with a protest to the NCAA. the pro-
test concerns a technicality surroun-
ding the draw.

The Generals did not post a very
strong record during the regular
season — 3-9 overall and 1-9 in the
ODAC — but head coach Bill Wash-
burn said that his team won much
respect after it performed better at
the tournament than most expected.
“Even though we lost, we were no
‘push over,’ ” Washburn said.

W&L won most of this respect when
several team members made it to the

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Mall
Featuring Dieter’s Specials

DAILY
We Appreciate Your Business! !

Open 11-5 P.M.
Mon. -Sat.

T0-GO
463-2595

 

331, leaving them in fourth-place,
seven strokes back. But W&L came
out determined in the second round,
firing a conference-low 318 which
seemed good enough until Wallace
ruined things.

“We were disappointed that we
didn’t win,’’ said head Coach Buck
Leslie, ‘‘but we made a run at it. We
didn’t expect to be this good at the
beginning but we made good pro-
gress during the course of the
season.”

The excellent play of Kimbell, a
four-year participent, was a pleasant

‘Golfers miss ODAC title by three strokes;
‘Wheeler, Kimbell earn All-ODAC honors

surprise for the team.

“We anticipated using Jeff so we
took him to the Bridgewater match
(last week),’’ said Leslie. “I think it
is a nice touch after four years in the
program for him to make All-
ODAC.”

“Greg did a nice job with leader-
ship this season,” said Leslie. ‘I feel
Wallace’s 75 was the determining
factor.”

Wheeler, who Leslie felt would
have won ODAC Player of the Year
had it not been for Wallace’s heroics,
still has a chance to make nationals.

baseball season

 

 

 

 

Overall, the Generals finished the
regular season 6-8 in the ODAC, 7-13-1
overall.

Murdock called it, ‘‘a frustrating
year,’ commenting, ‘‘we didn’t have
enough leadership or character. It’s

final round of the consolation bracket
and earned fourth-place honors at
their respective flights: Valerie Pier-
son at No, 3 singles, Benny Savage at
No. 6 singles, and the team of Pierson
and Martha Christian at No. 2 dou-
bles.

Washburn labeled his team’s first
season as “‘very positive.’’ He added
that the experience that the all-fresh-
man starting line-up gained this year
will contribute greatly to next year’s
program.

Other players and coaches agreed.

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi
Adam Yanez watches a pitch go in the dirt

difficult to be consistent with a young
team. Perhaps this (year) provided
the experience they need.”

“‘T hope we get some kids who want
to play next year.”’

ODACs

Women’s Athletic Director Cinda
Rankin commented that she was ex-
tremely pleased that the first-year
program could not only compete with
the other well-established ODAC
teams but also beat some of them.
‘‘We have the start for a successful
program,”’ she said.

Savage said that given the cir-
cumstances, the season was a suc-
cess. She cited team spirit, dedica-
tion, and good coaching as providing
the solid foundation for next year.

“We are just starting,” she said.

 

   

 

   

NEED Libul 703-463-1670
A CAR? GEL TUL Emergency
(Gti: 703-377-6331
Students under 21 A
Must Have
prior Insurance
Approval Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

    

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986, Page 7

 

A matter
of behavior

It’s a matter of behavior and,
campers, it’s getting out of hand
I’m not sure all of this has very
much to do with bats, balls, sticks or
rackets, but a wise man told me it’s
just as bad as the sin to leave such
y By Mike oe or at least un
7 Stachura Three things:

Thing 1: Last week’s reprinted let-
ter trom one of the University of Virginia’s newspapers has this
gentleman wondering where all the rest of his ilk — that much bally-
hooed characterization of the pre-coed W&L student — have gone. As |
remember, The Phi was rather gung-ho (this body being the chief
hung-goer) about the U. Va.-W&L lacrosse game. Now, I’m wondering
if the whole thing might have backfired. Seems Mommy can't trust
you children away from home. Is it asking all that much of you non-
athletes to remember that you represent the school as much as those
wearing jerseys and helmets? Unnecessary word choice and urinating
on the field are acts worthy of the character and intellect of roller der-
by fans or their kindred spirits, Hampden-Sydney students, but cer-
tainly not of those who purport to be doing something with their lives
I'd like to think pride in your school would not necessarily exclude
pride in yourself. But, then, things have changed, haven't they?

 

TIME
OUT....

¥.5

 

 

 

 

Thing 2: Found it interesting the other day at the ODAC tennis
coaches’ pre-tournament meeting that the assembled gents discussed
court conduct for about half an hour. As the tournament went on, not
all that much was done about the occasional outbursts of misbehavior
(That’s becoming somewhat of a theme this week, not all that much
being done.) But returning to our saga, isn’t it a bit sad that in the
gentleman’s game there is such an overriding concern to do something
about the terrible behavior of the children playing the game? To their
credit, the W&L players acted like the champions they are. Still, in all,
there were enough scenes of rackets being thrown, balls batted wildly
around the court and vocal displays of immaturity to give this inno-
cent bystander — and I’m sure countless others — food for thought.
Just because John McEnroe gets to do it on TV, doesn’t mean that it’s
OK to do. For all their talk, the coaches really didn’t do all that much.
But then I guess it’s really more galling that they even had to talk
about it at all. I don’t think they have to have such talks about these
things in Sweden, and it’s good to see that country’s players’ good
behavior rewarded.

Thing 3: I don’t know where this thing belongs, but since it happened
at the lacrosse game Saturday, we're going to file it in this space. One
of W&L’s finest fans in attendance at the game decided this would be
as good a time as any to display his new spring wardrobe. Unfor-
tunately, his finery included a T-shirt that had a picture of TV
character Buckwheat with a slash through him and the inscription
“NO BUCKWHEATS.”’ Now, this incident might seem like so much
fun and games to you, but then that’s assuming you're not black
That’s an assumption the T-shirt wearer must have made — either
that or he’s a blatant racist pig. It’s also an assumption you don’t get to
make. Race relations at W&L are rather tenuous to begin with. The
situation doesn’t need any help from misguided clods who have a great
deal of trouble thinking beyond their own noses.

Thing 4: (Yeah, there were supposed to be only three, but a funny
thing happened on the way to the printing press. Yesterday's Roanoke
lax loss brought us a fourth in the form of a late-game, on-the-field
brawl.) There is no question losing is a frustrating thing. But what
makes a champion in my book is not so much the wins and losses, but
the way one chooses to handle both. Yesterday, some W&L lacrosse
players let frustration get the best of them as time ran out on their
comeback attempt against the Maroon. (To set the record straight.
Roanoke’s athletes were not models of sportsmanship, either. But then
I was never of a mind to set Roanoke athletes as models of anything. )

The sad thing was that I was embarassed to be associated with W&L
athletics as I watched a lacrosse game become a boxing/wrestling
match. And when you get embarassed in Roanoke, brother, you’re
scraping pretty low.

I watched W&L lose something a lot more valuable than a piddling
lacrosse game yesterday afternoon. It’s called composure. It’s called
self-respect. And you ought not ever lose that.

I know this group is not as bad as Wednesday's brawl might make
them out to be. Not by any stretch. Point is, it didn’t have to happen.

The point to these three, er four things? I’m not sure, but it seems to
me they might serve as food for thought, if you’d like. If nothing here
bothers you, well then, that may be the problem...

.... rying to find a parking place on the Colonnade, Dennis Daly said
in a release this week that the Generals played to potential against
Washington College. No doubt about that and no reason to be disap-
pointed, either, Only question is where, divisionally speaking, playing
to potential puts W&L lacrosse. I'll leave an attempted answer for
another day and perhaps another, wiser, person... Congrats to track
(second), golf (second), women’s tennis (ninth — they did beat
Roanoke) and men’s tennis (first. what else?). Re: Men’s tennis. This
group, if the positive attitude holds out, will turn more than a few
heads in Claremont, Calif., during the second week of this month...

...Finally, speaking of the Golden State, if Snow Chief doesn’t win
the Derby, Bold Arrangement will...

 

‘Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841—

 

 
“BACK PAGE

The White Animals are just ‘regular guys

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

When the White Animals hit the
stage tomorrow night at the Student
Activities Pavilion, they will be doing
exactly what they enjoy doing most:
taking their distinctive brand of
psychedelic shock ‘n’ roll straight to
the people

‘We're a people's band,”’ keyboar-
dist and soundman Tim Coats said in
a telephone interview this week.
‘We're just regular guys — not ex-
traterrestrials. That's why people
like us.”’

And, evidently, a great many peo-
ple do like them. The group has been
touring the southeastern United
States for seven years now and has
carved out quite a _ following.
Moreover, the Animals have broken
attendance records at clubs such as
the 688 in Atlanta, the 40 Watt and
Mad Hatter in Athens, Ga., and the
Antenna Club in Memphis, Tenn.
Hey, there’s even a ‘White Animals
Day” in Phoenix, Ariz.

And if that weren’t enough, the
mighty Animals have just released
their third full-length album, titled,
“The White Animals.”

None of this seems to faze the band,
though. The new record is being
released on their own Dread Beat
record label. This might hinder the
band’s chance at the big time since
Dread Beat does not have the in-
fluence and promotional budget of a
major label, but the White Animals
seem to like it that way.

‘We talked to the major labels but
they didn’t know what to do with us
since we aren't ‘25-words-or-less.’ We
won't be pigeonholed,”’ said Coats.

Indeed, it is a bit hard to say exact-
ly what the Animals are all about. On
one hand their musie is deenly
rooted in the R&B and pop music of

article

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

 

Remember Johnny Rotten?

Those early pictures certainly
were disarming, if I can recall. There
he was, 17 years old, orange hair
pointing straight up, and all the ar-
rogant nihilism he could muster. He
was scary, annoying and quite popu-
lar. ‘‘I’m a lazy sod!” he wailed with
glee. Good heavens ....

But the Sex Pistols simply could
not keep it together, could not keep

Ride the bus

The Interfraternity Council will
sponsor free round-trip bus ser-
vice to and from tomorrow night's
White Animals concert at the Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion.

There will be five stops. First
will be at Zeta Beta Tau and Kap-
pa Alpha on Nelson Street. Second
stop will be at Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon on East Washington Street.
Next, the shuttle van will go to
Sigma Nu and Phi Delta Theta on
Henry Street. Finally, it will ar-
rive at Graham-Lees Dormitory
en route to the pavilion.

There will be four departure
times: 8:30, 9, 9:30 and 10.

Return service will begin after
the concert.

 

 

 

the ’60s. (‘‘We’ve been doing that
psychedelic stuff for years,’ said
Coats.) On the other hand, though,
they have a strong affection for
modern dub sound effects (thanks to
‘“‘Dreadmaster”’ Coats.) Just listen to
their nine-minute ‘‘treatment’’ of
Van Morrison’s garage-band classic,
“Gloria.” This '60s relic is revved-up
and wrapped-up in a wash of modern
sound effects to produce an exhilara-
ting rock and roll ‘“‘soundgasm..”’ that
has become one of the band’s live
trademarks.

Or steal a listen to their new record
in order to get an idea of what the
Animals are all about. Produced by
“Big-Bad’ Buster Jones (who has
played bass with Talking Heads and
Gang of Four, among others), the
record has a thoroughly modern
sound. Yet all the ’60s influences are
there, as well.

According to Coats, ‘“‘Most of the
songs are about girls.’’ Which sounds
all right by me.

Sid Vicious awake and could not keep
their sprawling anger from getting
out of control. So with only one
album, a handful of classic hard rock
singles, and an outlaw legend never
to be matched in rock history, the Sex
Pistols crumbled amidst their own
self-proclaimed chaos.

But what happened to the bantam-
voiced child who led the whole thing?
Well, Public Image Ltd. answers that
question. He is a bit older, is now Mr.
John Lydon (his Catholic name) and
a bit richer (he just received $1
million in royalties earned during his

EAST LEX

Open ‘til midnite

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

 

Cigarettes
Natty BO ong necks

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

 

 

 

 

Nelson Street

Service Center
424 E. Nelson St.

463-3922

 

Anyone that needs
to sell their
car this spring,
call Kenny Potter
or Ed Kibler.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Beatles
Chicago
Eric Clapton

The Doors Journey

 

117 W. Nelson St,

Campus

Music

Come Check Us Out...
...We’re Moving Up!!!

The area’s largest selection of classic rock-n-roll
Over 100 LPs by these greats alone:

The Eagles I
The Grateful Dead Pink Floyd
Jimi Hendrix

Plus over 100 titles om Compact Disc with
more on the way including classical and jazz

 

 

Bob Marley

The Rolling Stones
The Who

 

 

i

 

White Animals, left to right: Stephen Boyd, Ray Crabtree, Rich Parks, Tim Coats and Kevin Gray

The record features more
keyboards than usual, as well as a
modern, crisp drum sound. Jones
even showed bassist Stephen Boyd
how to “thump” the bass for the
‘‘funk”’ breaks on the record.

The album’s first single is a rock
ballad called ‘‘She’s so Different”’

backed by a piece of “ritual dance
music” called ‘Help Yourself,”’
which singer Kevin Gray described
as ‘‘sort of King Kong meets Molly
Ringwald at a dance in Oxford,
Mississippi.’”’

The modern feel of the new record
should not change things one bit for

 

a

Binnie) Srvritscesconciatines
PiL album

Pistol days), but he is still ‘‘rotten’’
to the core. I assure you.

Public Image — or PiL, as they call
themselves — has a new record out
and it is loud, obnoxious and enter-
taining. And utterly ‘‘rotten.’’ The
LP is called ‘‘album,”’ the cassette is
called ‘cassette,’ and the compact
disc is called — you guessed it
— ‘compact disc.’’ The group has
even been running ads that simply
show Lydon sitting among generic
food products with one word in the
corner: ‘‘ad.”’

So what is all this clever, preten-
tiously unpretentious packaging all
about? Well, let’s see here. PiL’s first
album was slick punk rock, their sec-
ond was brooding death-disco, their
third was Eastern drum music, and
their fourth was psychopathic rhy-
thm and blues. So what is ‘‘album?”’

Well, it’s a rock and roll record.

Produced by Bill Laswell (Mick
Jagger, Material), the record’s
seven cuts are loud, ferocious hard
rock featuring Ginger Baker (of
Cream fame) on drums, Robby
Shank on violin, and an amazing
Steve Stevens soundalike on guitar.
(Since there are no credits on the
sleeve, I have no idea who this is. )

But the star and focus is Lydon, of
course, and he hasn’t sounded this
hacked-off since his Pistol days. He
shouts, he snarls, he spits and he
rages. It is wonderful.

In “FFF” (‘‘Farewell, my Fair-
weathered Friend!’’), Lydon snarls,

 

 

 

 

PiL poster

“Logic is lost in your/Cranial ab-
botoir ..."" over the track’s driving
music. In ‘Fishing,’ he intones,
“People who need people/Are the
stupidest people.”’ And in “Bags,”
Lydon describes a clean suburban
neighborhood while he thrills at the
beauty of his ‘own terror.’’ The
chorus, a rhythmic eenre of the
words ‘‘Black Rubber Bag,’’ evokes
the ironic image of a suburban street
lined with garbage bags hiding all the
dirt.

Now the question is whether you
want to hear some self-righteous
“‘sod”’ rage for 40 minutes. Well, I for
one do like it. As Lydon sings on
“Rise,” the record’s evocative
single, ‘‘Anger is an energy!’’ And he
sings it like a believer.

Duran Duran’s John Taylor once
said the Power Station wanted to be a
cross between the Sex Pistols and
Chic. Too bad they ended up being a
cross between Queen and Duran
PiL’s new album is closer to
what Taylor was looking for. The dif-
ference between the Power Station
and Public Image, however, is (as
Lydon once said in his more ‘‘rotten’’
days), ‘‘We meanit, ma-a-a-n!”’

ONCAMPUS

the Animals, however. Coats
describes the band’s attutude as
“unattitude,”’ or that is to say, a lack
of any false pretenses.

“We played in a club in L.A. once
and everybody in the club looked like
they should be in a band but us,”
Coats joked.

Coats said the only movement he
feels the Animals are a part of is a
“Bandism’’ movement.

“We're interested in a band’s at-
titude, how they react to a crowd,
how long they’ve stayed together,”
he said. ‘‘A band, to me, is a bunch of
guys who like to play together.’’

Band cancels at GHQ

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Last night’s Wild Kingdom perfor-
mance at the General Headquarters
was canceled because the group’s
van broke down en route to Lex-
ington.

Student Activities Board Chairman
Mike Guerriero said the vehicle,
which contained all the group’s
equipment, broke down in Charlot-
tesville.

When the band arrived at 8:45 p.m.
without their equipment, Guerriero
decided to cancel the show rather
than wait for them to arrange to get
their equipment another way.

“It would simply take too much
time to load them in, set up and pre-

sent a quality show,’’ Guerriero said.

He estimated that it would have
taken between one and two hours to
get the band’s equipment set up.

“The decision was [whether] to put
on a short, low-quality show versus
waiting to have them sometime
later,” he said.

The SAB paid a $250 deposit to the
group, but Guerriero said he doesn’t
plan to lose that money.

“T’ll call their booking agency and
see if we can’t just apply it some-
where else,”’ he said.

Guerriero said he wasn’t angry
about the cancellation.

“Sometimes things go beyond their
control,” he said. “‘If it were faked I
might be angry, but I confirmed it, so
there is no problem. There was no
need to put them through any extra
burden.”

Senior directs thesis

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

“That Championship Season,” a
senior thesis by drama major Greg
Stites, will be presented at the
University Theatre May 8 to 10.

The play revolves around the 20th

‘reunion of four members of a state

champion, high school basketball
team. It concentrates on each of the
men’s separate failures and the in-
creasing decay in their relationships
with each other.

Stites said he chose the play for his
thesis because the small cast appeal-
ed to him. A rapport will be neces-
sary between the players that will
make seeing the play very different
from reading it, he said.

Two sentimental reasons for the
play are its all-male cast — a fitting
tribute to the last all-male class at
Washington and Lee — and the reu-
nion theme, which will blend well
with activities at W&L’s Alumni

 

Weekend.

All the senior drama majors are in-
volved in the play: Chris Carmouche
plays the coach, and Ned Richard-
son, Mark McDonough and David
Marsh play three of the teammates.
Freshman Barney March, in his
W&L acting debut, plays the fourth.
teammate.

The biggest challenge in rehear-
sals was fleshing out the complex
relationships between the charac-
ters, Stites said.

Stites has directed two previous
plays, a W&L one-act and a Lex-
ington High School production. This
effort will be graded by the drama
department. Professors Joseph D.
Martinez and Thomas J. Ziegler
acted as advisers on the play.

Shows will begin at 9 p.m. at the
University Theatre on Henry Street
Thursday through Saturday. A Satur-
day matinee at 2 p.m. has been ad-
ded. Reservations can be made by
calling 463-8637.

 

 

463-4544

 

 

 

 

By Thursday, May 1

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘The Bedford Incident.’’ Room 327,

Commerce School.

8 p.m, — SLIDE LECTURE: ‘“‘Life in the Imperial Japanese Army.”’
Dr. Edward J. Drea, U.S. Army War College. Northen Auditorium,

University Library.

Friday, May 2
Law School reading days end.
Noon— Memorial Service for Arthur Silver. Lee Chapel.
4 p.m. — WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Hollins. Smith Field.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Zelig”’ Classroom A, Lewis Hall.

Saturday, May 3
2p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Loyola. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Zelig.”’ Classroom A. Lewis Hall.

Sunday, May 4
2 p.m. — Hands Across Rockbridge.

Monday, May 5
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILM SERIES:
‘*Hoodlum Soldier.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Tuesday, May 6
3p.m.— BASEBALL: Generals vs. Clinch Valley.
4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Reading
by Ernest J. Gaines, novelist and short story writer. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.

Wednesday, May7

The Lexington/Rockbridge chapter of the Archaeological Society ot
Virginia will meet on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in duPont Auditorium.
Leon Doyon, a Ph.D. candidate in archaeology at Yale University, will
present a lecture titled: ‘‘Fifty Feet Under the Equator: the Chiefs of
Quito at the Time of Christ.”

9 p.m. — BAND: “‘Covacus.”’ Sponsored by the Student Activities
Board. Cover charge $250.

Thursday, May 8
Alumni Weekend begins.
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: 12th Annual Department Fry.
Howe 401. Tea at 4:30.in Howe 402.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘Behold a Pale Horse.”’ Room 327,
Commerce School.

8 p.m. — PLAY: “That Championship Season.” Directed by Greg
Stites, Drama major. University Theatre,

 

 

 

 

soo a ne re eee ae gee gente nastier

 

 
