 

 

 

   
     
   
 

*" VOLUME 85, NUMBER 11

Basketball
Cagers kick off

new season

Page 5

 

| General
Notes

 

' Rapid ticket movement

Tickets go on sale for the
R.E.M. show in the student activi-
* ties pavilion starting Monday,
Dec. 2, at Room 108 in the Univer-
sity Center, from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Tickets are $10 and there are 2,000
available.

Free for the asking

The Washington Scots Charity
and Education Fund of the St. An-
drew’s Society of Washington,
D.C., are accepting applications
for 1986-87 scholarships to be
awarded to men and women of
Scottish descent and to widows or
» people of Scottish ancestry study-
| ing at the college level.

Two scholarships foster study
* between the United States and
, Scotland. The James and Mary
Dawson Scholarship of $5,000 is
open to Scots coming to the United
+ States for graduate work. Another
, Scholarship, in an amount to be
determined, is available to U.S.
* residents planning study in Scot-
t land.

Other awards, as the availabili-
ty of funds permits, are made to
, persons of Scottish descent enroll-
ed in U.S. institutions. Informa-
tion and applications are avail-
, able from the Financial Aid Of-

fice.

"House talk

* “The Survival of the English
Country House’”’ will be the topic
of a lecture on Monday, Dec. 12,
» by Martin D. Drury, executive
, secretary of historic buildings for
the National Trust of Great Bri-
y tain. The talk, which will be at: 8
p.m. in du Pont Auditorium, is co-
* sponsored by the Fine Arts de-
» partment and by the Visiting Lec-
turers Committee. The presenta-
* tion coincides with the country
|, house exhibition in Washington,
D.C., that prompted the recent
* visit of Prince Charles and
, Princess Diana.

. Teacher, teacher

The Foreign and Domestic
’ Teachers Organization needs
teacher applicants in all fields
from kindergarten through col-
’ lege to fill over 600 teaching
+ vacancies at home and abroad.
Since 1968, the organization has
been finding vacancies and locat-
+ ing teachers both in foreign coun-
tries and in all 50 states. It has
hundreds of current openings and
+ all the information as to scholar-
|. ships, grants and fellowships.
For additional information,
* write The National Teacher’s
lacement Agency, Universal
Teachers, Box 5231, Portland,
* Oregon 97208.

. Baseball and oranges

The baseball team is beginning
+ its annual fruit sale to fund the
, team’s spring training trip to
Florida. The sale includes boxes
* of oranges and grapefruits. Con-
tact Coach Jim Murdock at
463-8690 or any W&L baseball
* player.

Holiday hours

The University Library hours
* during the Thanksgiving break
, will be: Friday, Nov. 22: Close at

5:30 p.m.; Saturday, Nov. 23:
* Open 9 a.m. — 4 p.m.; Sunday,
« Nov. 24: Closed.; Monday, Nov. 25
3 -through Wednesday, Nov. 27:

Open 8:30 am to 4:30 p.m.;
» Thursday and Friday, Nov. 28 and
, 29: Closed. ; Saturday, Nov. 30:
Open 9 a.m. -4p.m.; Sunday, Dec.
* 1: Open at noon to resume 24-hour
, schedule.

.Register at registrar’s

* The 1985-86 University Register
, is now available in the Registrar’s
Office.

Let it be known

Generals Notes are run as a
» public service by The Ring-tum
, Phi. To publicize your non-profit

organization’s event or informa-
* tion, fill out a General Notes re-
« quest form in the office of the

University Center secretary,
* Carol Calkins.

°

.

?-

°

¥

 

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Road damage caused by the recent
flooding may endanger trips to
Goshen this spring, according to a
highway engineer for the state High-
way Department.

The heavy rains two weeks ago
caused two mudslides in a 1'2 mile
stretch of road in Goshen, causing it
to be washed out in two places.

Highway engineer Leo Ferris said
the department is ‘‘not sure what to
do with the slides.’’ Presently it plans
to build walls to keep the road from
sliding away again.

The initial time estimate for the
repairs to be finished was six mon-
ths. However, Ferris said, ‘‘It could
be 90 days ... depending on how soon

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

 

Maple Hall

The chef
knows best

 

Goshen trips |;
jeopardized

we can get the wall in.”

Without the washed-out road, ac-
cess to Goshen is impossible by car,
and if the repairs take six months it
would mean no day trips this spring
to Goshen for Washington and Lee
students.

But, Ferris said, the Highway De-
partment ‘‘probably will have a road-
bed in this week.”’

An “off-the-cuff estimate’’ of the
cost of these repairs is about $1,000
per foot of road. The total cost for fix-
ing the washed-out highway would
then come to about $1 million.

Under normal conditions, about 800
to 1,200 vehicles a day use the Goshen
highway, state route 39.

Ferris said that although the high-
way department has put up road-
blocks, people have taken them down
in order to drive through.

Page 6

 

 
  
   

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi —

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Rainy and cloudy
all weekend

 

|

NOVEMBER 21, 1985

 

Ne
ou

f

"

a!

 

eS
oy

a: -
jr

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A stretch of road is blocked off near Goshen because of damage from heavy rains

 

After an impressive showing in a
1983 ‘‘U.S. News and World Report”
survey of college presidents, Wash-
ington and Lee has found itself mov-
ed to a different category in the re-
cent 1985 survey, and consequently
did not fare as well.

The survey two years ago, in which
W&L was cited by 47.6 percent of the
college presidents surveyed as one of
the top five smaller comprehensive
universities east of the Mississippi,
became a recruiting tool for W&L
and spawned bumper stickers and T-
shirts advertising the University’s
prominence in the survey.

W&L was first in its category that
year.

 

because we had one professional
school,’ University President John
D. Wilson explained this week. ‘‘Now
they’ve taken all these schools and
placed them in the national liberal
arts colleges category.”’

Williams College in Massachusets
led that division this year with 55.1
percent of presidents citing it, follow-
ed by Swarthmore and Amherst col-

leges. W&L was not in the top 10.

Two years ago, W&L beat out La-
fayette, Union and Gettysburg col-

leges in the lower category.

“Because of the new. categories,
comparisons with the 1983 ‘U.S.
News ’ survey should not be made,”

the report said.

Wilson said W&L is “stronger this

year than we were last year.”

“We're in the group we want to

compete with,”’ he said.

 

W&L falls from magazine’s survey — but...

‘“‘We were placed in that category

 

The 1983 college report (left) and 1985’s

 

 

 

 

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

Kevin Weaver, who wreaked havoc
upon the Washington and Lee football
record books and Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference opponents alike,

 

 

was named conference Player-of-the-
Year by a vote of ODAC coaches on
Tuesday.

Weaver's selection was the icing on
the cake on the afternoon for the
Generals’ gridders. Eight other W&L

players earned either first-or second-

team All-ODAC honors.

Weaver, who broke four school
rushing and scoring records during
the season, was the ODAC’s leading
rusher with 1,161 yards in just eight
games. He led the conference in scor-
ing as well, tallying 110 points on the
year

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

Kevin Weaver celebrates after his 64-yard touchdown run

Weaver tops ODAC

In his four conference games
(Weaver missed W&L’s first confer-
ence game — a 30-0 loss to Emory
and Henry — witha knee injury), the
junior running back was just as im-
pressive, piling up 521 yards and 10
touchdowns.

In addition to Weaver’s selection as
a first team running back, sopho-
more offensive tackle John Packett
and senior defensive back Tim Jany-
ska were named to the first squad.

Named to the second team were
seniors John Sanders (offensive
guard), Hugh Finkelstein (wide re-
ceiver), Chris Bleggi (tight end) and
Alex Castelli (defensive tackle).
Freshmen Tom Skeen was named
second-team linebacker and punter.

The ODAC also named its all-con-
ference soccer team, and W&L’s Bil-
ly Holmes was selected as a forward
to that squad

 

Chappell gets
new Wa&L job

Carole K. Chappell, who resigned
two weeks ago as Washington and
Lee’s recruiting coordinator, on Mon-
day began a 20-hour-a-week job in the
University Theatre.

“It’s something completely new,”
she said. ‘‘All I'd done at the Theatre
before was go to the plays.”’

Her duties include box-office and
public relations work. Chappel!, who
has worked for the University since
1976, was formerly the University
Center secretary.

“I was only gone a week, but it’s
great to be back,”’ she said. ‘With all
the calls and visits, the University
sort of came to me.”’

“T like the University and | like be-
ing associated with the University,”
she added. ‘I appreciate | Theatre
head and fine arts professor | Al Gor-
don giving me the opportunity to be
back on campus.”’

Thanksgiving in Lexington

doesn’t have

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

If you have to stay in Lexington
over Thanksgiving break and are
dreading the presupposed boredom,
read on. It’s not really that bad.

The first and most important thing
to do is to find others that are in the
same predicament. A week without
school in Lexington is much better
spent with a group rather than alone.

Now that you have all assembled,
look for something to do. Granted,
the library will be open for most of
break, but who wants to go there
when the night club crowd is at home
for Thanksgiving? If the weather is
nice, some might enjoy playing golf
at the Lexington Country Club. Get-
ting a group out there for a round of
golf will no doubt be fun — and it kills
a lot of time.

Another daytime activity might be
to take a driving tour of Lexington
Just get in the car and go. There are
a lot of interesting places to see,
many of which are off the beaten
path. And if you take your driving
seriously, this too could use up a good
afternoon,

Sleeping late and going to bed early
are valuable parts of being here
when school is out of session. There
will be no parties and no papers to at-
tend to, so ‘hitting the bed’’ at 10
p.m. should cause no guilty feelings
A long night’s sleep will be necessa-
ry, especially when the library
(hostel) is closed.

For nighttime activities, the place
to discover is Estelle’s. Virtually
everyone that I’ve talked to who has
stayed in town over a break has
found the place a hotbed of activity
and spends a lot of time there. The
place is a bargain for a meal — $2.25
for everything. And the ornaments
— pool tables, juke boxes, t-shirt clad
Virginia Military Institute cadets, a

to be

   

a turkey

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Jeff Mandak carves a turkey in the dining hall Monday night

group of stern waitresses, and 50¢
beers make the place a good change
after 10 weeks on the Palm’s and
Spanky’s circuit. This is definitely a
place to go witha group.

After spending a few hours soaking
up the atmosphere and other less-
seasoned items at Estelle’s, one
might wish to really go out on the
town. Start with the W&L basketball
team’s annual season-opening tour-
nament beginning Friday at 8 p.m
Since the rest of the school will be
gone, those staying will have no pro
blem grabbing prime seats. And
when else in the season can you see
so many undefeated teams in one
weekend?

After the game, the night owl
should roll a mile down the road to
the Holiday Inn. Unbeknownst to
most of the W&L community, the
Holiday Inn operates a lounge — the
infamous, generic ‘Holiday Inn
piano bar.’ Live entertainment
abounds, although as of last night
they were uncertain of next week's
lineup of artists

As well as being a center for a good
time, a visit to the lounge might be

activated,
chains, one is very unlikely to find a

beneficial to one’s fall term grades
When one sees the myriad of travel-
ing salesmen who live their social
lives in lounges like this, it is in-

evitable that one will be spurred on to

make better grades.
It should be apparent to any obser

ver that among the many keys the

lounge’s patrons will carry on spring-
fastened-to-the-belt key

Phi Beta Kappa key
After the Holiday Inn stop, it is
likely that even the most adventure

some ‘‘break-stayer”’ will be ready to

hit the sack. But if you begin to get
hungry, try something different and
swing by the Lee Hi Truckstop for
some truly excellent food

If you go by Lee Hi, your adventure
will be continued as you see inany
meaty hands wrapped around cups of
high-caffeine, hot coffee

So if you are here over break, find
some others who are also stranded
and do some things that get forgotten
during the 90 mph school term. The
change will do you good and you
might even feel as if you spent your
break in a ‘second Lexington.’

a
OPINION

 

It’s only fair

Last spring, the Executive Committee discussed placing a
woman on the Student Control Committee in case a woman
was not elected to a class office. Tuesday night, the Ex-
ecutive Committee again considered the issue. We think that
it is time to place an ad-hoc female member to the SCC.

The argument last spring for the additional ad-hoc mem-
ber was understandable: A woman appearing before an all-
male SCC might feel uncomfortable discussing a sexual slur
or sexual harassment or any issue of a sensitive nature. It
would not be unreasonable to expect a woman to fell intimi-
dated discussing an attempted rape before 12 men.

Although we do not doubt the sincerity of the individuals
currently on the SCC to treat such matters, we do understand
how a woman — a sympathetic ear, if you will — listening to
another woman would provide moral support and lessen anx-
ieties for all involved. Until a woman is elected to a class of-
fice, we believe it is only fair that one be on the SCC now.

Find the best legal aid

 

By TED LeCLERCQ

 

The Honor System can withstand
the acquittal at the open honor trial
two weeks ago. The jury’s decision is
not a matter of debate, but the sys-
tem that led to the acquittal under
those facts should be questioned. The
system needs at least one fundamen-
tal change.

Open honor trials operate on an
adversarial basis and not solely as a
means of discovering the truth. The
truth, in fact, can only be obtained on
later occasions by making the
system live up to its own standards.
The defense lawyers must force the
Executive Committee advocates to
meet the demands of the Honor
System. In other words, whether the
defense believes its client has com-
mitted the act or not, it must do
everything allowed by the system to
try to win.

The system currently allows the
accused student to choose his counsel
from a list of some of the best Wash-
ington and Lee law students. Since
the burden of proof is on the Ex-
ecutive Committee, it is essential
that the best legal minds at W&L re-
present the EC, as well. In fact, the
EC’s duty to uphold the Honor
System requires it to seek the best
legal counsel available.

The White Book rules currently
force the Executive Committee to
choose its counsel from its own

members. The logic of that require-
ment is based on the premise that
since the committee handled the case
up to that point, it can argue the case
most effectively for the open trial
jury. This reasoning has several
weaknesses.

First, if an EC law representative
is used as an advocate, it appears the
committee views this law student as
the most qualified on the basis of hav-
ing been elected to the EC. However,
there is not necessarily a connection
between being elected to the EC and
being the best counsel for an open
honor trial.

Second, the rule presupposes that
some very intelligent and articulate
law student outside of the EC could
not both understand and argue the
case with such a short preparation
time. Again, that underestimates the
quality of W&L’s law students.

Third, no undergraduate can
match the legal training of law stu-
dents. Therefore, the mere presence
of an undergraduate among the EC’s
advocates risks making the EC look
as if it has inferior representation.

Fourth, the rule assumes that prior
detailed association with the case is
an asset. In fact, independent cousel
could provide a more removed and
perhaps more objective analysis of
the issues.

An adage holds that ‘he who repre-
sents himself has a fool for a client.”’
The evidence suggests the EC could
better serve the system by seeking
outside counsel.

 

Great expectations can disappoint

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

In an age in which the latest craze
is no longer what they’re wearing in
Soho but what they’re sporting for
tea in Geneva, it is funny to see two
countries so ga-ga over a meeting of
their respective leaders. Granted, it
is the first time that the Soviets have
been able to keep a leader alive long
enough for Reagan to meet him, and
it is the first time that the Soviet
leader is younger than our president.

But when the world stoops to gaze
at two men exchanging trivialities
and cocktail conversation while the
“meat” of their discusssions goes
unreported because of a news black-

 

out, it is ironic, if not comical, that
we herald every word as if it were
manna from heaven. In a funny way,
we have become as crazy as those
who lined the streets of Washington
recently just to catch a glimpse of
some visiting royalty. We are so in-
tent on seeing something that we
forget the importance and the
significance of what we are seeing
and what results these actions pro-
duce.

Though the summit is finished and
the actors have left their sets and
returned to the grim worlds in which
each rules, the real issues have not
disappeared. We are only able to
focus more clearly upon them. But at
least we have seen the enemy for
what it is, and damn if it isn’t our own
expectations.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

 

 

 

 

 

Trying the jury sets bad precedent |

 

MY VIEW

By STEVEN
POCKRASS

‘‘Who the heck are you?” I asked,
suspiciously eyeing the gray uni-
form, the polished brass buttons, the
dark black boots and the blue cape
billowing from his nape.

He wore many faces, yet they all
appeared to be those of friends and
acquaintances.

“Tam Captain Honor Code,”’ his
commanding voice boomed. *‘And
you,” he yelled, pulling what ap-
peared to be a very sharp sword from
its sheath. “You prepare to die, you
worthless scum,”’

“‘Hang ona second,” I said. ‘‘What
are you going to kill me for?”’

“*You're one of the twelve, aren't
you?’’ he screamed. ‘‘You’re one of
the twelve who nailed Lee’s coffin
shut with your decision in a recently
publicized honor trial.”

“IT was a member of a jury that
found a student not guilty of an honor
violation, if that’s what you mean,”’ I
said.

“That’s what I mean,” he replied.
‘*How does it feel to have killed the
Honor System?”

“T didn’t kill any Honor System,” I
said.

“Yeah, right. You all decided that
a student who admitted he stole a tub
of wine was not guilty of an honor
violation,’’ he said. ‘I know this. I
read about it in The Ring-tum Phi.”

“Oh right, The Phi,” I said.
‘Where you're guilty even after pro-
ven innocent. If there was ever a
time when we needed a Reader's Ad-
vocate column in The Phi, this was
if.””

‘‘What do you mean?” he asked.

‘‘Well, did you read about the trial
in the Law News?”

“There wasn’t anything about the
trial itself in the Law News,” he said.
‘‘According to the Law News’ story,
its attempts to report on the trial
‘was met with vehement opposition
by the Executive Committee offi-
cials,’ including EC President John
Lewis. And you wouldn't want to
mess with him. He’s a big guy and
lifts weights.”’

“I’m not saying I would want to
mess with him,” I said. ‘‘I just
wondered why The Phi, for the first
time I know of in W&L history, re-
ported on an honor trial. In fact, it
had interviews with both the student
acquitted and with Lewis after the
verdict was announced. It seems to
me like someone violated someone's
trust, which isn’t real cool at
Washington and Lee. That's what our
honor code’s based on, you know,
Trust.”

“Of course I know that,’’ he said.
‘I'm Captain Honor Code. And that’s
why I can’t believe you acquitted that
guy.”
“Hey, listen, buddy,” I replied.
‘Why don’t we get our facts straight
before we start leveling accusa-
tions? A student jury does not have to
be unanimous in an open hearing.

“What happens is that after the
jurors hear all the testimony and are
charged by the presiding officer,
they go into a room and discuss the
case until they feel like everyone's
had his say. And then they vote by

 

secret ballot. “Only if 2/3 of the
jurors — that’s eight people — vote
guilty, is the accused found guilty.”’

“So a majority could vote guilty,
and the guy could still be found not
guilty?”’

“That’s right.”

“Is that what happened here?”’

‘I don’t know. Like I said, it is all
done by secret ballot. It could have
been 7-to-5 guilty, or it might very
well have been 12-to-0 not guilty. You
just don’t know.”

“Well how’d you vote?”

“Is that any of your business?
Maybe I voted guilty, and, then
again, maybe not. But I don’t think
you should accuse me of destroying
the Honor System when you don’t
even know how I voted.”’

“But it was such a simple case,”’ he
said. ‘The guy admitted he stole the
wine but you,...er, at least five mem-
bers of the jury decided it was all
right because he was intoxicated.
What a precedent.”’

“There wasn’t any precedent,” I
replied. ‘“‘We‘re not like a regular
jury, and we’re not the U.S. Supreme
Court. You don’t know why he was
found not guilty. I'll tell you this —
the guy's representatives said his
defense was not intoxication, so it
would seem highly unlikely that
drunkeness was the reason he was
acquitted.

‘Supreme Court decisions are
written down. They set precedent
because not only do you know how
people voted, but you also know why.
Here, you don’t know the vote. You
don’t know why people voted as they
did. So how can you base one case on
another if you don’t know the reason
for the outcome? That’s just ignor-
ance,”

“But enquiring minds want to
know why the jurors voted as they
did,” he said. ‘‘And Lee Hollis told us
why in The Phi. Hollis said it’s
because there were a lot of freshmen
on the jury, and they questioned the
single sanction.”

“Yeah, I read that,’ I said.
“Hollis, who was not on the jury, was
quoted in The Phi as saying, ‘The
reaction of your average jury mem-
ber, especially on this one, which had
a lot of freshmen, is, ‘Who am I to be
kicking this person out of school?’ ”’

‘I don’t remember Lee Hollis sit-
ting in the jury room with us, analyz-
ing our brain patterns or conducting
a statistical poll, but he obviously
knows all there is to know about your
average jury member. Sure, a fresh-
man can get kicked out of school for
an honor violation, but he or she real-
ly isn’t qualified to serve on a jury of
one’s peers.”

“That story seemed awfully con-
trived to me,” I said. ‘‘I think I've
seen Opus make better analyses of
trends for the Beacon in the Bloom
County comic strip. But The Phi did
run an editorial a few weeks ago
about the single sanction, so it must
be accurate.”’

‘During jury selection, each poten-
tial juror is asked if he or she
believes in the system as it now
operates, under a single sanction,” |
continued. ‘Are you implying per-
jury by the jury?”

“OK, so maybe the single sanction
had nothing to do with the verdict,”’
he said. ‘The fact is that the guy was
found guilty in Lexington General
District Court. How could at least

five jurors think it in their power to
question a real court? The Phi asked
that in its editorial, you know.”’

“I know that,” I said. “I guess The
Phi figures that if someone is found
guilty in a real court, there's no
reason to allow the person to exercise
his rights granted by the White Book.
Gosh, that would be like giving the
guy the benefit of the doubt.

‘Another thing,’’ I added, ‘‘is that
unless you sat through the entire
trial, heard all the evidence and the
chairperson’s charge, can you be
sure that you know all the facts of the
case and understood the jury’s in-
structions?”

“If you did sit through it all, then
you know that the statement that ‘the
only relevant question was whether
the act was in fact committed’ is not
accurate. As The Phi itself noted, a
hallmark of the system is that all
cases are tried on an_ individual
basis.”

“Even generally accepted things
like using fake 1.D.s and stealing
road signs for fraterndty scavenger
hunts?”’ Captain Honor Code asked?

“Yes,” IL replied, ‘‘but I’m not sure
that you could necessarily call them
‘generally accepted.’ Because the
Honor System is not based on prece-
dent, past cases don’t matter. And to
tell you the truth, I don’t know of any
past cases regarding scavenger
hunts or fake I.D.s.

‘‘As always, we must take cases in-
dividually, but it would be very dif-
ficult to prove to me that taking a
road sign for a fraternity scavenger
hunt is not premeditated theft.

“The real problem is that pledges

Letter

The Ring-tum Phi considers all
letters from any member of the
Washington and Lee community
for publication. Letters to the
editor should be typed and double-
spaced and must include the
writer’s name and phone number.
Due to space considerations, some

eee

may put their loyalty to their frater*
nities ahead of the honor code. An@
anyone who would force someone
else to steal in order to become 4
member of a house is guilty, too. ¢

“It seems to me like pledges
oughta have the guts to say ‘no’ if
they’re forced to participate. I'm ina
fraternity, and I did not participate.

“If the Interfraternity Council is
really more than just a spineless, ti-
tular head, then it should ban such
scavenger hunts, not because they're
necessarily honor violations, but to
show that we can set higher stant
dards for ourselves regardless of the
Honor System. That’s what I think
we all need to do — to voluntarily set
standards for ourselves that are
higher than the minimums set by the
honor code — because that is what
will make our university great.”

“That's a pretty tough stance for
someone who found a convicted thief
not guilty of an honor violation,”’
Captian Honor Code said. ‘

“Would you quit making accusa-
tions!”’ I said. ‘Last week’s Phi
printed the accused student’s name,
yet the stories and editorial implied
that the jury was misguided and mis:
informed. ’

“The fact is that the accused fol-
lowed the proper procedures for an’
honor trial and was not found guilty.
You may not agree with that deci-_
sion, but you must live with it.

“I’m glad you have an opinion. Buty
stop making accusations against the
jurors and oversimplifying a difficult’
case. Our role in the trial was neither:
voluntary nor easy. The last thing we.
need is for you to put us on trial, too.”’

policy — |

é

letters may not be able to be pub-
lished every week. ’

Letters may be left at the Phi of-
fice before 5 p.m. Tuesday to be
considered for that week’s Phi or
may be mailed to The Editors,
The Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lex-
ington.

 

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity,

 

The Ring-tum Phi !

55s beds seectsinccrcelececs Mike Allen ‘

NG ah ahs EN hee he hee en di ccdacindesK Paul Foutch

oS bss: sss cssbsees sus heus Jim Strader
PTC ree eer en Peet: Chris Bowring ‘

ss 0s sees ccrksssCaepeubets Jeff Kimbell ‘
Be once ore Hank Greenberg
Pe err Keri Hinrichs ‘

Business Manager .......ccscccceccovens
Advertising Manager ...........:+++++e005
Advertising Salesmen ...........+--.505

fe eT Pere rreni Corie eer Cre ree Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi ‘
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee, The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

Cotton Puryear a
.., Reade Williams
....Mike Stachura
.. Nelson Patterson

  

John Feyrer
Jay Reville

 

 

 

 
.
4
‘
‘

y

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

 

#
2
Gag

PS

EC criticizes coverage of open honor trial

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee on Tuesday
criticized last week’s Ring-tum Phi coverage
of a student body honor hearing, calling the
reporting “irresponsible journalism.”’

After 50 minutes of discussion, the EC
voted to refer the matter to a subcommittee
formed last week to consider a possible
policy regarding press coverage of open
honor trials.

Articles in last week’s Phi included the
charge against an accused student, the clos-
ed and open trial verdicts and the name of
the student in an article for which he agreed
to be interviewed — information that several
members of the EC said violates a section of
the Honor System guidelines, The White
Book.

The section states that ‘‘any and all infor-
mation about ... an Executive Committee
Hearing is highly confidential,’ which the

EC members said is designed to protect the
accused student, witnesses and others.

“T just think it’s a question of tact and a lit-
tle bit of censorship,’ senior representative
Michael Black said at Tuesday’s meeting

Phi Executive Editor Mike Allen told the
committee the purpose of the paper is to pro-
vide a “responsible forum for intelligent
discussion of important issues to students.”’

‘What could be more significant, more im-
portant, more central to the W&L communi-
ty than an honor trial, especially this case?”’
he said.

One of the EC’s major complaints was that
since an open honor trial can be attended on-
ly by those in the W&L community and The
Phi is sent to parents and other schools, the
paper in effect was allowing those outside the
community into an open hearing.

Allen repeatedly posed the question of
what harm would be done if the facts and
issues of the case were discussed in the paper
and copies were sent out to the public.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers stressed
that the EC was trying to protect the accused
student, even though the student in this case
agreed to an interview regarding the honor
trial

“Confidentiality has been broken outside
the W&L community,”’ Caruthers charged.
He added that he had a problem with his
‘mother and the lady she plays tennis with’
discussing the facts of an honor trial.

Allen countered by saying: ‘I have enough
confidence and faith in the Honor System
that I don’t think it’s going to be destroyed by
having the outside community know what’s
going on withit.”’

The EC has the power to freeze The Phi’s
funds, but second-year law representative
Bill Thompson said later Tuesday night, ‘‘I
don’t believe that if it had come down to that,
we would have done that.”’

Allen also said he didn’t think the newspa-
per’s funds would be frozen.

If it were to happen, though, “the news-

paper would still come out, even if I had to
pay to Xerox it myself,”’ he said.

Allen said after the meeting that he’s ‘‘not
some wild-haired liberal trying to tear down
the system — that’s silly.”’

“But I don’t believe the students of Wash-
ington and Lee are well-served by having Big
Brother behind the horseshoe decide what
they’re going to read on Thursday afternoon
about honor or anything else,”’ he said.

“I’m willing to listen to them and don’t
disagree with everything they say,’’ Allen
continued. ‘But as long as they try to sup-
press information important to the student
body, I feel I owe it to my readers to resist.
And I will.”

“T think the EC has this nightmare of us
writing a point-by-point, quote-for-quote ac-
count of an honor trial,’’ he said. ‘‘We have
never done that, have never even considered
it, and will never do that. But the point is: We
made that_decision ourselves — we don’t
need the EC to make it for us.”’

Senior representative Pat Haydei
after the meeting that although he °° i
want to see a rule that forbids the pape
coverage of honor trials ... coverage that
too extensive [may reflect on] the guilt or i:
nocence of the persons involved,

Second-year law _ representative
Thompson said after the meeting that the F
has three main concerns: to protect t
rights of the accused student, ‘to avoid th
dissemination of specific names and facts «
a trial outside the W&L community,” and ‘‘t
generally avoid a retrial of the facts by th
students or outsiders but without impingin
on fair discussion of the issues.”’

“IT strongly believe in the necessity that tl
paper report on honor matters, but some «
the information needs to be restrained
Thompson continued.

“T think it’s unfortunate that student go
ernment and student publications should |
split over issues they should be in agreeme!
and act together on.”’

Coeducation helping
IU, Diffenderffer says

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

“The Independent Union is slowly
becoming an important organization
on campus,” said I.U. President
Chuck Diffenderffer.

According to Diffenderffer, this
year’s I.U. has gained additional
strength from the first women stu-
dents on campus, who are unable to
take advantage of the fraternity
system.

“T want to let the women know that
this organization could be their voice
in the way that a sorority would,”
said Diffenderffer.

In order to get this message across
to students, Diffenderffer said he
hopes to visit freshmen during man-
datory hall meetings.

Of the present student body, 35 per-
cent does not belong to fraternities
and are eligible for membership in
the I.U.

Members are requested to con-
tribute annual dues of $15, but that is

not mandatory for membership.
Those members who pay however,
are entitled to free admission to I.U.
activities, which are open to every-
one. Earlier this year, the I.U.
received $500 from the Executive
Committee to sponsor student ac-
tivities.

Diffenderffer is working on plans
for a Christmas Party or a pre-Fancy
Dress party. According to him, last
year’s Christmas Party, which was
held in what was then the Cockpit,
was a success, and he hopes that this
year’s party will be equally as en-
joyable,

Most I.U. activities are held in the
GHQ, but the organization stresses
that providing social activities is not
its sole function.

According to Diffenderffer, the
purpose of the I.U. is ‘‘to provide the
services and opportunities of a fra-
ternity without the obligations.’’ The
1.U. offers students an extensive file
of ‘cold tests,’’ counseling services
and intramural athletics.

Intramurals have been the most

 

Honor conviction

- - -
cael

 

CHUCK DIFFENDERFFER

successful I.U. activity so far and the
organization has fielded teams in all
competitions except golf, Diffenderf-
fer noted.

The I.U. has had several meetings
this year and will be holding another
meeting after Thanksgiving. Inter-
ested students can register for mem-
bership or intramurals at that meet-
ing, or by contacting Chuck Diffen-
derffer in the I.U. office on the sec-
ond floor of the University Center.

 

Fi
a

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Students leave Lee Chapel after Monday’s open honor
hearing, in which a student’s conviction for lying was
upheld by a student jury. It was the second open trial in
two weeks and the second of the year. According to Ex-

ecutive Committee Secretary Mike Webb, of the eight

 

Staff Reports

 

A second-year law stu-
dent has been elected
chairman of the American
Bar Association Law Stu-
dent Division for the 1986-87
term.

Gorham _ Sharpless
“Rory” Clark of Vienna
was elected chairman of
the Law Student Division at
the ABA’s Division Board
of Governor’s meeting in
San Diego. Clark was elect-
ed over two other candi-
dates.

Clark will assume his
post next August. As chair-
man, he will be responsible
for supervising the division activities in the 150 law
schools approved by the American Bar Association. He
will also work with the president of the ABA and repre-
sent the law student division to outside organizations.

Phillips book in second printing

A book by economics professor Charles F. Phillips Jr.
recently went into its second printing.

Titled “‘The Regulation of Public Utilities: Theory

“RORY” CLARK

 

 

honor investigations this school year, four have gone toa
closed trial — one of them was thrown out by the EC, one
resulted in an acquittal, and two were convictions. Both
were appealed, resulting in Monday’s conviction and the
previous acquittal.

EC tables
issue of
SCC woman

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

Although the Executive Committee
Tuesday heard lengthy discussion on
the subject of instating a woman ad
hoc member to the Student Control
Committee, it decided to hold off ona
vote until the first meeting after the
Thanksgiving break.

Freshman Valerie Pierson voiced
her request that a woman’s ad hoc
position on the SCC be created to bet-
ter represent the needs of women on
the presently all-male board.

“Tt would be really intimidating to
go before so many males,” Pierson
said.

SCC Chairman Townes Pressler
added that the position would be non-
voting and advisory, involving coun-
seling and representing women in
areas such as sexual assault and
slurs.

Last year’s EC considered creating
such a position in the event that no
woman won an elected position to the
SCC through class elections.

...... The same proposal on Tuesday was

met with some opposition. ‘I don’t
think that there is a problem with a
woman not being on the committee
just because there is no woman on
the committee,” first-year law
representative Bill Senft said.

Second-year law representative
Bill Thompson said women should
run for the office or choose a sympa-
thetic male candidate “if they are
really concerned about what happens
in the SCC.” A motion was made and
passed to table the issue to allow
more research before the next EC
meeting Dec. 2.

In other EC action:

eThe 1984-85 Calyx, which at one
time was scheduled to be given to stu-
dents at matriculation, is still undone
despite progress made by the editor,
senior David Sprunt. ‘As of right
now, I have six pages to do,” Sprunt
reported Tuesday.

Representatives of the Film Soc-
iety appeared to answer questions

» about the financial progress of their

organization. Junior Robert Meritt
and senior Jim Foley told the EC,

 

 

 

 

The photo taken for the cover of Liang Heng’s 1983 book

Chinese author and wife
to lecture on. history

 

By JOHN PENSEC
Staff Reporter

 

A survivor of the Chinese Cultural
Revolution will speak two weeks
from now on the differences in the
two Chinas that he has known: the
China of his boyhood and the China of
today.

Liang Heng and his wife, Judith
Shapiro, co-authors of ‘‘Son of the
Revolution,”’ will give a lecture titled
‘‘New Freedoms, Old Problems: A
Survivor of the Chinese Cultural Re-
volution’s View of China Today,” on
Monday, Dec. 2, at 8 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. The talk is being spon-
sored by the East Asian Studies Pro-
gram.

“Son of the Revolution,’’ published
in 1983, is Liang’s story of growing up
in China during the Cultural Revolu-
tion. Described by ‘“‘The New York
Times Book Review” as ‘‘so well
written and revealing that it makes
most other works on the same sub-

Professor Roger Jeans’ class
modern China.

Liang graduated from the Huna
Teachers’ College in 1981. Since con
ing to the United States, Liang ha
earned his master’s degree from Co!
umbia University.

Shapiro taught American liter:
ture at the Hunan Teacher's College
She received her master’s degree i
Asian Studies from the University o
California at Berkeley. She has als
received degrees from Princeton an
the University of Illinois.

Liang is editor of Zhishi Fenzi (The
Chinese Intellectual), a Chinese lan
guage magazine that is used primari
ly by students from China.

Liang and Shapiro co-authore:
“Intellectual Freedom in China afte
Mao,”’ a book published in 1984 by the
Fund for Free Expression, which dis
cusses freedom of belief, speech an
information as well as artistic
freedom. Articles about China writ
ten by the couple have been publish

“‘We’re doing almost as well as we
were last year.”’

 

NEWS BRIEFS

and Practice,’’ the 812-page volume was first published
in June 1984 by Public Utilities Reports Inc. of Arling-
ton, Va.

The book is designed for use both as a classroom text-
book and a reference work for professionals in the field.

Phillips, who is also the mayor of Lexington, received
his bachelor’s degree from the University of New
Hampshire and his Ph.D. from Harvard. He joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1959.

Group offers cooking course

The Rockbridge Area Unit of the American Heart As-
sociation recently announced the return of one of its
“heart-iest’’ programs, the Culinary Hearts Kitchen
course,

Culinary Hearts, in its second year locally, will again
be taught by Jo Anne Willis, a dietician at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. It is a six-week, once-a-week pro-
gram providing students with instruction in the prepar-
ation of healthy, appetizing and inexpensive meals.

Sponsored by the local Rockbridge heart association
unit, Stonewall Jackson Hospital and the Rockbridge
County Extension Service, the program this year will
run every Monday, 7 to 9 p.m,from Feb. 3 through
March 10.

Last spring, 15 area people learned new ways to cook
and eat to prevent heart problems. Organizers like
Henry Foresman, president of the local unit of the heart
association, would like to see more college students par-
ticipate in the program this year.

“We hope to get the young people interested in the
program, especially those in their early to mid-20s,”’
Foresman said. ‘‘The younger people have their whole
lives ahead of them. Those who eat smart will benefit in
their older years.”’

The course will be held in the Fellowship Hall of the
Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, 617 S. Main Street.
The cost for the entire course is $25 for the food used in
the demonstrations.

For more information, cont.act Jo Anne Willis,
463-9141, or Tom Brickel, 463-8460.

Programmers take fifth place

Washington and Lee recently sent a team to a
Regional Computer Programming Contest at the Col-
lege of William and Mary. Sponsored by the Capital
Region of the Association of Computing Machinery, the
contest enlisted 20 student programming teams from
colleges and universities in Maryland, Virginia and the
District of Columbia.

The W&L team, represented by Clint Whitaker and
any St. John, placed fifth in the competition despite the
fact that all the other teams were composed of four
members.

Astronomy article published

Physics Professor Ronald L. Reese and Reade
Williams, a senior politics major from Roanoke, have
written an article for the November 1985 issue of ‘‘The

 

ject seem little more than dress
rehearsals,’’ the book is being used in

ed in The New York Times and Life
magazine among other publications

ESP GTS

Student named head of division of U.S. bar association

Griffith Observer,” a national popular astronomy jou
nal.

The article, titled ‘‘An Astronomer’s Poet: Alfred
Lord Tennyson,”’ examines Tennyson's poetry and how
he used astronomy extensively in his works. Reese an
Williams also note Tennyson’s use of universal the:
and astronomical imagery and the similarities to y
John Milton’s development of the same themes

‘Tennyson's references to astronomy were les
mic in scope and more subtle, even technical” than Iii
ton’s, Reese and Williams write. “He incorporated r¢
ferences to contemporary science profusely into
poetry and ina way unlike his predecessors.”

Seniors to attend conference

Seniors Nelson Patterson and Townes Pressler are
two out of 200 students chosen to attend the Busines
Tomorrow XI conference in Houston Sunday throug!
Tuesday.

Sponsored by the Foundation for Student Communi
cation Inc., publishers of Business Today magazine, the
conference will be held at the Hyatt Regency West in
Houston. The program will include eminent speak:
and business executives.

Pressler, who is the senior class president, and |
terson were chosen ‘“‘from a pool of 2,000 outstand

student leaders” across the country, according |
conference organizers
 

 

Seni

SPORTS

Seconda-half blitz paces gridders, Weaver

Kevin Weaver breaks loose on another big run

 

Our Ladies

....We talked about this way back
in February (those of us who
remember) and darn if it ain’t

TIME resolved yet. That is, at least from

OUT.... where I sit. Of course, it’s this
women thing. I’ve asked it before

By Mike and I'll ask it again:

Stachura

 

What are we going to call these
women, athletically speaking?
: We can call this “The ‘Lady
Generals’ Controversy, Part II,’’ not to be confused with ‘‘North and
South.”

It may be no big deal to you, but y'all are apathetic anyway, right?
Seriously, campers, now that women’s athletics is firmly entrenched
at W&L — and quite impressively so, I might add — I think it’s high
time somebody made a decision about what the nickname for
Washington and Lee women athletes is to be.

As far as I can tell, the policy has been one of avoidance. And that’s
not a criticism, guys. I realize this one’s a toughie. Yeah, leave the
easy stuff to Ronnie and Mikhail.. What you’re faced with is choice
phrases like “the women’s team,”’ ‘‘the women”’ and ‘‘them.”’ (Well,
not yet, but you get the picture. )

Now we all know that ‘‘Generals”’ is a non-sexual referent ... it’s not
gender specific ... I mean it works both for boys and girls. Hence,
Mark Mandel, W&L sports information director, explained that since
Generals are Generals, the style will be to add no embellishment to the
W&L nickname. Indeed, Mandel said he would be ‘‘behemently oppos-
ed” to any such feminine distinction. The women’s teams and the
men’s teams will be just Generals.

If we don’t make the distinction, it’s a sad fact, but the women’s

’ teams will eventually be removed from any nickname designation at
all. The Generals will be the men’s teams and ‘‘the women’s team”’
will be the women’s team. And everybody deserves a nickname, right
Beverly C.?

' For one thing, designating the women’s teams as Lady Generals

* would clear up a lot of confusion. Pity the poor sports editor, who, fac-

* ed with a story about the men’s and women’s crosscountry teams, is

’ left with a paragraph that has the ‘“Generals”’ finishing third in the
meet. Who? Which team?

Are we just going to let this thing die? I say, ‘‘No — this is a serious
matter’ (let’s pretend). The big fear must be that such a nice name as
Lady Generals is sexist. Oh, please, can we talk?

Carolyn Arbogast, the leading Lady General Harrier, said it really
doesn’t matter, but she doesn’t find “‘Lady General’’ sexist. Hear,
hear.

I say let’s make a decision to go with Lady General. But, wait, you
say, we don’t call the men’s teams the Gentlemen Generals. Granted,
but I think this question is one of precedent. One need go no further
than Norfolk and Old Dominion for a fine example of a women’s title of
distinction. The men’s team is the Monarchs — a neuter name — while:
the women go by the name of, you guessed it, the Lady Monarchs. And
not too shabby a game of hoops do they play down there, either.

The addition of ‘‘Lady” to the W&L nickname does not invite deri-
sion, either. Certainly, not worthy of the ridicule of such sexually con-
fused monikers as Lady Longhorns, Lady Lions or Lady Bulldogs.

No, it would be a good thing. It’s a classy distinction for a group that
deserves to be designated as such...

 

 

...Walking by the Colonnade, an “oh, wow!” to Kevin All-
Everything Weaver. All-America recognition should not be far behind.
But you can’t stop there. A big tip of the cap to the entire squad and
staff for a class-act season. No question about it, you done good.... A
quick tip of the cap to all Generals earning All-ODAC honors and a

‘ special congratulations on a fine season to football coach Gary Fallon,

‘who wasn’t selected conference coach of the year but should have

‘ been...A good luck wish to Scott Rippeon at cross country nationals
this Saturday...And a final word to those planning ahead: Circle Dec. 3
on your calendars and make it a point to be in the Warner Center for
the General cagers’ clash against top-rated ODAC foe Hampden-
Sydney. Let’s dismiss this apathy talk right now....

....American Public Health Association is considering a resolution
calling for a ban to boxing. A good idea. It’s time that boxing go the
way of bear-baiting... Football: Chicago is a lock for winning the
Super Bowl. No questions asked ... More Football: Danny Ford and his
Clemson football team were way out of line in their end-of-game antics
after getting beat by Maryland. ACC deciding this week to penalize
Ford et. al., but really no matter of decision. Childishness is usually
obvious...

... Finally, seems Terry ‘‘Fat Tub of Goo,’ Forster has decided to go
on a crash diet. Crash is right. That’s what it sounds like when 270
pounds hits the scale. Your diet’s going to last, Terry? Fat chance...

(P.S.: A hearty congratulations to WLUR-FM on its 43-39 overtime

‘victory over The Phi. Indeed, the better team won....)

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

“This team gave more of
themselves than the 1981 team.”

That is what W&L Head Football
Coach Gary Fallon said when he was
asked to compare this season’s 7-2
team that earned a share of the
ODAC title with Emory and Henry
and Randolph-Macon, to the 8-2 1981
squad that won the championship
outright.

“It is very gratifying as a coach
when the staff gets the team to give
all they can,” he said. ‘“‘They gave
good performances in all their
games, even the losses. My overall
feeling is that I’m pleased with the
season.”

On Saturday, the team earned its
seventh win of the season with a 29-14
victory at Wilson Field over the
Washington University Bears. The
triumph capped the sixth consecutive
winning season for the Generals.

Once again, junior running back
Kevin Weaver had a productive af-
ternoon, rushing for 207 yards and
scoring 14 points, two tallies that
should keep him among Division III’s
top three in those categories.

Yet, early in the Washington Uni-
versity game on Saturday, the
Generals looked like anything but a
team that had been in contention for
the national title. They failed to move
the ball with any consistency, and
had a potential drive killed when a
long pass from Jon Thornton to Hugh
Finkelstein was brought back
because of a clipping call.

Fortunately for W&L, the Bears
weren't doing much better.

File photo

SCOTT RIPPEON...qualifies for nationals

The Generals opened the scoring in
the second quarter. They began the
period with the ball on their own 14
and drove to the Washington 11,
where they stalled, before settling for
a 28-yard field goal by B.J. Sturgill to
make the score 3-0 with 10:06 left in
the half. The lead held, until, with
3:30 left in the half, Thornton was in-
tercepted deep in the Bears’ territo-
ry. The Bears took advantage of the
miscue, and scored on their ensuing
series to put them up 7-3 with less
than three minutes left in the half.

The Generals got the ball back, but
were forced to punt. The Bears were
moving the ball off a W&L punt, and
seemed to be headed toward another
score when the Generals took charge
of the game. On a fourth and short
play, Linebacker Bob Berlin broke

up a pass and the Generals took over .

on downs.

Three plays later, including passes
of 32 and 36 yards from Thornton to
Chris Bleggi, the Generals were on
the Washington four-yard line. In
what has become an almost routine
play, they handed the ball to Weaver,
who went over the top for the touch-
down to give W&L a 10-7 halftime
lead.

Four plays after W&L came out of
the locker room, Weaver romped 64
yards for a touchdown to put the
Generals up 16-7. The run also gave
Weaver the school record for most
yards in a season, previously held by
Gene Girard with 1,011.

“We knew we were facing a team
with a lot of individually talented
athletes,’ said Fallon. “But, our
team and our seniors worked very

chard, and they [Washington Univer-

sity] didn’t work together as a team
as well as we did.”

 

Weaver’s 207 yards came on 28 at-
tempts. It was his second 200-yard ef-
fort of the season (he rushed for 225-
yards vs. the University of the South
on Oct. 16. He now holds four major
school records, including most rush-
ing yards in one season (1,161), most
points in one season (110), most rush-
ing yards in one game (225) and most
touchdowns in one game, (five vs.
Hampden-Sydney on Oct. 19). He also
scored 13.8 points per game and
averaged 145.1 rushing yards per
game. The final NCAA statistics will
be announced Dec. 7, and Weaver
should be at the top of those lists.

Fallon said, ‘I’m pleased with the
team in general, the defense faced
some tough quarterbacks and some
good offenses, but they always reach-
My down and did what they had to

“The offensive line developed very
well, and I was very pleased with the
jobs ([placekicker] Sturgill, and
]punter) Tom Skeen did for us. We
knew we could have a good year if we
were able to avoid injuries.”

SIDELINES: The six con-
secutive winning season matches a
record set between 1919 and 1924 ...
W&L, E&H, and R-M, all tied for the
ODAC Championship with 4-1 confer-
ence records as the Wasps defeated
Maryville 48-46 and the Yellow
Jackets beat Hampden-Sydney
12-7.... his 64-yard touchdown run
early in the second half was Wea-
ver’s longest run of the sea-
son...Freshman linebacker Skeen led
the team in tackles, getting in on 101
tackles... The 7-2 final record is the
best W&L mark since 1981.

Rippeon beats heat
to make nationals

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee cross
country team ran very well last Sat-
urday at the Division III Southern
Regionals finishing with a score of 76,
Unfortunately for the Generals, two
other teams turned in better perfor-
mances than the W&L harriers could
muster. The top two squads at re-
gionals advance to the nationals.

In Atlanta, on Saturday, host
Emory was just too tough for the en-
tire field, 33 points ahead of second

place Roanoke with a 60.
Coach Dick Miller noted, ‘‘We ran
very well although we did not reach

our objective of advancing to the na-
tionals as a team.”

Running on a humid and misty day
with temperatures in the 80s, many
runners were forced to drop out from

heat exhaustion. Scott Rippeon was
not hindered by the weather, how-
ever, as he was able to finish fifth
overall and gain a berth in this week-
end’s finals. Rippeon qualififed
under the system which sends the top
two teams, and the top three finish-
ers in the meet from teams not quali-
fying, to the nationals held also at
Emory in Atlanta.

Carolyn Arbogast ran representing
the W&L women’s cross country
team and placed 4ist out of 54 against
some very tough competition. Mary
Washington College was the only fe-
male cross country team to qualify
from this region for the finals this
weekend.

Rippeon can earn All-America
honors if he finishes in the first 15
runners Saturday. Miller will be
honored for his 34 years of coaching
at Saturday’s meet.

‘Flabbergasted’: Swimmers. off to fine start

By MIKE STACHURA
and LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporters

 

After an impressive performance
last Wednesday night in which the
men defeated VMI and the women
captured five first places in seven
events against Mary Baldwin, the
Washington and Lee swimming team
is gearing up for a weekend of ‘“‘quali-
ty swimming,” according to Coach
Page Remillard.

“T was real pleased with the meet
against VMI,” the Generals’ mentor
said. “Some people came up with
some times that as individuals they
were surprised with, and as a coach I
was flabbergasted with.”’

Senior captain Tim Stanford, who
qualified for the nationals in the 100-
yard butterfly with his first try of the

Video Center
Of Lexington

Year Membership ...
Lifetime Membership..................... $7.95

With this coupon good thru 11/30

Mon.-Sat. 10-9

Membership Film Rentals
$2.00 for one or $5.00 for three

VC Player Rentals — $6.95/day

Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center
463-2177

season, was one of the General swim-
mers who led the way against VMI.
Remillard said the immediate future
looks bright for Stanford, and he in-
dicated that the senior is eyeing Jim
Born, Division III’s top swimmer.

Remillard spoke of Stanford’s
chances against Born. He said that
Stanford is getting close and, more
importantly, belives he can doit.

Freshmen Matt Brady (won the 50-
yard freestyle), Dave Dietz (won the
100-yard freestyle) and Tom Rawls
(won the 500-yard freestyle) also pac-
ed the Generals in their win over
VMI.

“Our freshmen are swimming real
smart,” Remillard said.

Remillard was pleased with the ef-
fort of the four-member women’s
team, as well. Elizabeth Miles and
Nancy Whalen were double winners
in the meet with Mary Baldwin. The

Sun. 12-5

      
 

Squirrels defeated the Lady Gen-
erals, 57-35, but with only four
members, it will be difficult for the
women’s team to come up with a vic-
tory all season.

W&L will be facing strong oppo-
nents this weekend, playing host to
Johns Hopkins on Friday and Divi-
sion II Shippensburg on Saturday.
It’s a weekend that has become a lit-
tle more challenging after some bad
breaks for the men’s squad. Brady,
who swam his lifetime best to win the
50-yard freestyle against VMI, broke
his foot this week. Remillard said it is

-

By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy «Marie

not known when he will be able to re-
turn.

“We have to swim great without
Brady, and we’ll do it. It was our
meet to have and Hopkins’ to steal
and now its Hopkins’ meet to have us
steal...We’re going to put the pres-
sure all over Hopkins, and we’ll see
how much they can take, they may
crumble.”

The meets and slated for 7 p.m.
starts on Friday and Saturday. The
women will swim with the men on
Friday night against John Hopkins.

reer esa |
LMF Mls Pa |

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450 i

D> ED (ED ED ED (ED 0 EDP) ED ED ) SD () ED (

 

 

115 S. Main Street
“For your extra

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

463-2742
s of furniture'’

 

FP ee ae ae Oe om Om EE Oe 8 OO Oe Oe OD DO On ow en om am Ge OD Oe OP OD om om em om

$1 OFF

Large Pizza

fins cee sete eS ON A Se SS NY ER ND A GD A DO A GN Se NE Me ae Ge

!
i
|
J
!
I
1
4

#3
The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985, Page 5

 

Canfield ‘excited’
about young squad

 

| By MIKE STACHURA

| * Sports Editor

, | When the 1985-86 Washington and
Lee basketball Generals open their
season Friday night against Salis-
bury State, taking the court will be
the youngest squad head coach Verne
Canfield has had in his 22 years in
Lexington. And he can’t wait for the
season to start.

“T’m excited about what this team
can do because of the amount of work
they've been doing and as close as

+ they are,’’ Canfield said. ‘‘They’ve
shown some things that — and I un-
derline the word — eventually they

= will be able todo.”

With no seniors and only three
players with substantial playing time
returning, youth and inexperience
are the watchwords for the Generals,
, and things Canfield was confronted
with in the first days of practice.

“The first week and a half I’m say-
, ing, ‘Watch the upperclassmen do it.’
I finally realized that the upperclass-
men didn’t know how to do it, either,”
» hesaid.

But Canfield doesn’t see the youth

“ of the Generals as a negative factor.

“I think you can have as good a
team being young — and maybe even

* better — than a team that has all re-

« turning and is all seniors,’’ he said,

, indicating that the 1985-86 Generals
have shown that kind of promise.

* “This is, right now, one of the

» Closest teams I’ve had this institu-

, tion. They like one another. They’re
working harder than any team. And

» there are some good things happen-

ing that may not show initially,’’ Can-
field said.

* Some good things W&L can now

, take stock in include those returning

‘Fencers split
‘dual meet

» Staff Report

 

«

A TT
»

” a

”

« «

“

+

 

 

| ‘The Washington and Lee fencing
» team split its dual meet on Sunday by

downing Virginia Tech, 18-9, and nar-
"rowly losing to Wofford College,
, 14-13.

Three W&L fencers swept their
rbouts in the match against the
_ Hokies. Senior captain Mike Berg
and junior Jeff Blomster led the

insti

sabre squad with 3-0 performances, .

j and junior Will Baber added a per-
' “fect score to pace the epee squad.
The foil squad was 4-5 overall with
junior Mike Weisbrock and Blomster
’ posting 1-2 records, while sophomore
,Chris Gorman was 1-0 and freshman
Peter Sherwin was 1-1. .
» Junior Andy Tartaglione added his
2-1 effort to give the sabre squad an
8-1 trouncing over Tech.
, The epee squad was 6-3 against the
Hokies. Senior Cotton Puryear went
*2-0 for W&L, junior Mike Wacht was
,1-2 and freshman Jim Cobb was 0-3.
Tartaglione and Weisbrock posted
perfect scores in the 14-13 loss to Wof-
,ford. Berg was 2-1 and Blomster was
1-2 to give the sabre squad a 6-3 total.
« The foil squad was 5-4, with Blom-
ster going 1-2, Sherwin 1-1 and Gor-
"man 0-1.
» The epee squad was 2-7 with 1-2
., performances from Baber and Wacht
~ while Cobb was 0-3.

+
>

¥

a

*

   

 

Commons.

sentatives to help you.

+

 

¥

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362 (evenings)

_ tarot ama RF BERRA DEERE IND it ED RN RSG OME

Generals with some experience. Big
men, 6-foot-6 junior Jeff Harralson
(third-leading scorer last season)
and 6-7 sophomore Harmon Harden
(second-leading rebounder last sea-
son) are the team’s returing starters.
Canfield said junior Fred Bissinger
and sophomores Lou Trosch and
Steve Hancock should round out the
starting lineup for the Generals, but
that he sees plenty of contributors to
the W&L cause this season and that
there could be as many as 10 differ-
ent starters over the course of the
season.

“IT don’t like the words ‘starters’
and ‘subs.’ We'll play nine or 10
guys.”’ Canfield said.

One of the early-season chores is
getting the right combinations of
players. ‘‘This is a time factor and
cannot be rushed,”’ he said, “‘sort of
like a good wine — we’re not going to
serve it until it’s ready.”’

Despite the youth on the W&L
squad and its early-season inconsis-
tency, Canfield’s traditional stress on
defense will continue. Offensively,
the Generals should show balanced
scoring, and despite the loss of four
exceptional guards, this year’s back-
court could be quicker and better ball
handlers, the coach said.

One part of Canfield’s usual strate-
gy, the patient, ball-control offense,
may be tested by the addition of the
45-second clock, an addition he calls
“totally unnecessary.’’ Canfield said
the Generals will work around it, and
may even use it to their advantage by
forcing opponents to play defense for
the entire 45 seconds.

Canfield is not discouraged by the
pre-season Old Dominion Athletic
Conference coaches’ poll, which
places the Generals seventh in the
eight-team field.

“I think they picked us where they
had to pick us,” he said. ‘Our
chances are better than most people
might think.”

“Before all is said and done, we are
going to be a factor in the ODAC race
in that someone’s going to have to get
by us to win it. The ODAC race itself
is going to be out of sight.”

The Generals will get an early in-
dication of the ODAC’s competitive-
ness with a Dec. 3 home game
against the conference’s top-rated
team, Hampden-Sydney. Canfield
termed the match-up a “great oppor-
tunity” for a partisan W&L crowd to
give the Generals a chance at an
upset.

“I promise you, it would be worth
six to eight points and that could be
the difference,” he said.

But before the Hampden-Sydney
conference opener, W&L goes on the
road against Emory on Tuesday
after this weekend’s stern challenge
as host of the W&L Pizza Hut Tip-Off
Tournament. It will be four-team af-
fair featuring North Carolina Wes-
leyan (18-9) NAIA powerhouse Cas-
tleton State (26-2) and W&L’s first-
round opponent Salisbury State, a
23-6 squad from a year ago that rank-
ed 10th in the nation and returns five
lettermen.

“This may be a little more of a for-
midable field than we’re quite ready
for,’’ Canfield said. ‘‘But, you know, I
have a good feeling about the kids.”’

The tournament begins Friday
with the North Carolina Wesleyan-
Castleton St. game at 6 p.m. The
Generals and Sea Gulls are slated to
play at 8 p.m. Saturday, the consola-
tion game is set for 6 p.m. with the
championship game to follow.

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Mike Weisbrock (left) fends off an attack

 

BORDEN

 

} COMMONS

| | - Lexington's Fin Condominium nee

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

’ Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successful welcome trom the community and quickly sold
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden

These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they're located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and the historic Lexington community.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?

If you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre-

Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Office (703) 463-7319

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

~~ SCAR

 

 

 

 

File photo

Junior Jeff Harralson drives the lane in action from last year

j.V. by John V. Lowe

Passing the torch

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

POAAAPAIABIAAAIAAAAAAMAP Mw

 

Grapplers
poised for

strong year

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Despite the loss of four seniors
from last year’s 12-2-1 squad, the
1985-86 W&L wrestling team and
head coach Gary Franke appear
poised for another strong campaign

Senior co-captains Larry Anker
(134 lbs.) and Brian Lifsted (126) will
undoubtedly spearhead the Generals;
but the key to this team’s success will
be the development of younger wrest*
lers in an effort to fill the shoes of Joé
O’Neill, Greg Kendrick, Mark Wea-
ver and captain Jeff Dixon, who
graduated in June.

Franke said, ‘‘We hope to be as
successful as we have been the last
two years,” but admitted, ‘‘It will be
a challenge.” Still, Franke expressed
confidence in his young wrestlers, ‘‘I
do think they’ll help us pick up the
slack,” he said.

Although as Franke has stated, it’s
a bit early to judge how the team will
develop, several returning wrestlers
have showed much promise in prac:
tice and challenge matches. Among
the most impressive have been junior
Jeff Mazza (134 Ibs.), sophomore
Steve Castle (118) and senior Win
Phillips (167).

Among the freshmen, Coach
Franke expressed enthusiasm over
the abilities of Mark Robertson (177):
and Richard Redfoot (190) in particu-
lar. Much depends on these wrestlers
if the Generals are to reach what:
Coach Franke called “‘our obvious
goal’ — the national tournament at
Trenton State in February.

The Generals’ season opener
against Hampden-Sydney doesn’t
take place until Dec. 4, but the team ~.
has been far from idle. Aside from
the usual rigorous practice schedule,
the Generals participated in the an-
nual pre-season James Madison
takedown Tournament. The meet in-
cluded wrestlers from Virginia, Vir-
ginia Tech, VMI, and host team
JMU. Coach Franke was pleased
with his squad’s performance, as
Larry Anker placed third in his
weight class for the Generals.

In addition to the Hampden-Sydney
opener, the Generals have two other
dates before exams. The eight-team
W&L Invitational is slated for Dec. 7
while the Generals expect to con
clude the 1985 portion of their season
against Newport News Apprentice on
Dec. 11,

Se GR
OLD
i CALYXES f
i Available ‘
S Thursday & &
i Friday in f
The StudentCenter ¢

>) SS | | ee

ae

 
   

 

   
  

 

 
  
 

   
 

Lexington, Va. 24450
Lexington Hardware

 
 

 

PHI ADS ; A “Spring Break’”’ Welcome To
, SELL! , Washington and Lee

f ; University Students

KECK KKK KAK AIRE II MM IONG at

Venetian Court Apartments
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301
Heated Pool * Lawns * Cable TV * BBQ * Parking
Good Rates for Apts., Efficiencies,
Hotel Rooms

           
      
   
  

 

 

 

463-2242

 

  

White Glove

   
   
      

Cleanin ’
-* Wendell’s
We tackle any mess in
Student Apartments, Barber
Houses and Fraternities
And feature: Shop

General, Window, and
Carpet Cleaning, Waxing and
Buifing Floors | need your head for

my business.

Call for appointment
and estimate
261-6298 or 348-5155

 

 

Phone (305) 525-2223

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)

Pa - = _— Gourmet Items of All Nations _
465-3558 Cocktails® Wine® Beer

ve dam tolam SUbs@Imported Cheeses

Sunday 10am to lam Catering

   
      
       
     
  
  
 
 
   
   

Typists—$500 weekly |
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

 

}
en

Southern |
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

463-3612
-BACK PAGE

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

Chef chooses at Maple Hall

 

 

What's going on here? Under our
very noses, Lexington quickly is
becoming the cuisine capital of mid-
dle southwest Virginia. Maple Hall is
the newest contender in the bid for
your sophisticated dining types. So
how could we resist?

The first thing you will notice about
Maple Hall is that it isn’t in Lex-
ington at all, thus not suitable for the
non-mobile Mink. About four miles
up Route 11 north, Maple Hall is a
beautifully restored house that’s im-
possible not to notice. On our most
refined behavior, we jaunted up the
outer stairs and stepped inside.
“Table for two?”’ the gentleman ask-
ed. “Try downstairs.”
much for sophistication.

We found the living room where the
other dinner guests were seated. Our
hostess, Delores Kostelni, introduced
us to the other dinees and offered a
glass of wine. Now this was more like
it! We sat and chatted with the other
guests for a while.

conversation, Mrs. Kostelni explain-
ed what we would be eating that
evening. You see, the menu is chef’s
choice so the only decision you need
worry about is just how much wine
you will partake of. We were seated
and presented with our appetizer, a
pasta and broccoli dish smothered
with hot, Fontina cheese sauce. This
was what pasta should taste like. It
was perfectly cooked and the broc-

The cheese sauce was rich and
smooth and had a taste unlike any
cheese we have had before.

With our appetizer came a basket
of bread and real butter. The bread
was unusual, but very good-tasting.
We found out it was homemade pecan
bread. Chris and I didn’t argue. To
make sure the first basket was not a
fluke, we got another — just in case.

After the appetizer came a salad
with red lettuce and wine vinaigrette
dressing. Once again, the salad was
very fresh and the dressing had
enough flavor to keep vou interested.

 

Ah, well, so P

‘coli was very fresh and flavorful.

 

After a few minutes of this lively Pe

 

 

Maple Hall, located four miles north of Lexington on Route 11

Ah, but what sophisticated dining
experience would be complete with-
out a palate cleanser to whet the
W&L savant’s whistle? After the
salad, we were supplied with a small
scoop of pineapple sherbet to inspire
our world weary tastebuds.

A beef ragu was the entree this
evening. This is an excellent beef
stew with gobs of vegetables and pas-
try dumplings. The beef was perfect-
ly cooked in large, tender chunks.
The vegetables were also good. The
real indicator was that I actually ate
(and enjoyed) the mushrooms, my
arch-enemy in the vegetable group.

But who cares about that? We were
now ready for the last and greatest
course of our meal. Let’s face it, the
appetizer and entree are only ex-

cuses we use So we can get to dessert.
We both chose the apple tart with es-
pecially-made chocolate-cinnamon
ice cream on top. The apple tart
was terrific but it was the
the ice cream that intrigued us.
Could it be that we perceived a slight
Sweet Things taste therein? We call-
ed Mrs. Kostelni over and confronted
her with this revelation in front of
everyone. She admitted that al-
though the secret recipe was her
own, yes, Sweet Things made the
chocolate-cinnamon especially for
Maple Hall. We explained that any-
thing made by the patron saints of
‘scream was all right by us.

After dinner, we spoke with Mrs.
Kostelni. She is an extraordinary
chef who cooks or supervises the

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

cooking of everything made in Maple
Hall. As we suspected, everything is
made from scratch, from the apple
tarts down to the sauce in the ragu.

Maple Hall is open for dinner Mon-
day, Friday and Saturday evenings,
with dinner being served at 7 p.m.
Open since Oct. 9, Maple Hall hasn’t
repeated one dish since opening, and
more power to them. This country
inn would be the quickest way of im-
pressing a big date, (aside from a
Porsche), and relatively inexpensive
at $20 a person. If you want to learn
some of Mrs. Kostelni’s secrets you
could read her ‘‘Happy Cook’’ col-
umn in the Roanoke Times and World
News; but Chris and I, functional il-
literates that we are, would rather
eat it than read about it.

 

 

THE
VIRGINIA
STATION

Hub’s Gourmet Peanuts...
Only the best and always
fresh and delicious. Shipping
available from Virginia
Station for an ideal
Christmas gift.

29 N. Main Street

Old Main Street Mall
Lexington, Virginia

 

=

| Lexington Shoe
Hospital

  

We have a complete

stock of Vibram Sole Sets—
for hiking

and foul weather

      

be 3 West Nelson St.

  
   
  

   

  

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Valley True Value Hardware

Shute Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

 

 

 

(Pre-ott-so

In Italy, there’s a pie

Round-trip tickets to

 

 

Pri-az-Z0

youll pronounce it delicious.

gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

and far too expensive.
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzorm Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

 

filled with delicious in-

Italy are unnecessary
Just visit your par-

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

Unique Jewelry

Handcrafted from precious
metals and gem stone beads.

Artist’s in Cahoots
Gallery

in Old Main St. Mall at Main and
Henry Streets

Mon.-Sat. 10a.m, to5 p.m,

 

 

 

 

 

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

eee

$2 oFF

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please present coupon when

ash redemption + PYES Pizza Hut. Ine &

 
 

ordering Not valid ini ombina

”
Pad
|

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

= ge

12-10-85

   
      
  
     
 
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

Mon, - Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

Stockbroker
Trainee:
Opportunity in Virginia
Beach, Richmond or Wash-
ington D.C. area [please
specify] for hardworking,
enthusiastic individual.

Send resume to:
P.O. Box 8814
Virginia Beach, VA 23450

 

 

Thanksgiving!

165 South Main Street

 

463-9152

 

 

University Florist

Designs made with a special
touch just for you!

Buy I Rose,

Get 1 Free
$2.00 Off On Any Rose Corsage

+) > 15 W. Washington St.

“9 Lexington, Va
463-6080

 

 

Auditorium.

Ethies.”’ Dr.

Federal Government.”’
ment. Room 206, Howe Hall.

 

ONCAMPUS

Monday, December 2
8 p.m. — LECTURE: English Furniture

8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘New Freedoms, Old Problems
the Chinese Cultural Revolution’s View of China Today.”’
and Judith Shapiro. Northen Auditorium.

Tuesday, December 3
4 p.m. — RELIGION COLLOQUIUM:
Ronald Nakasone,
Graduate Theological Union, Berkeley. Room 28C, Newcomb Hall.
7 & 9:05 p.m.— FILM: ‘‘Citizen Kane.’ Room 203, Reid Hall. ‘
8 p.m.— CONCERT: Aspen Woodwind Quintet. Lee Chapel.

Wednesday, December 4
4:30 p.m, — GEOLOGY LECTURE
Elisabeth Newton, Bureau of Land Manage-

7p.m.— POLITICS FILM: ‘‘The Trial.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
8 p.m. — GEOLOGY LECTURE:
Estate.’’ Elisabeth Newton. Room 206, Howe Hall.

Martin Drury. DuPont

A Survivor of
Liang Heng

“A Buddhist Approach to
Institute of Buddhist Studies,

: “Careers for Geologists in the

‘Managing the Federal Minecal

 

 

‘Jagged Edge’ is |

an audience-jolter

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

Few movies leave you guessing the
way director Richard Marquand’s
“Jagged Edge”’ does, and even fewer
have endings as jolting and satisfy-
ing.

Writer Joe Eszterhas and Mar-
quand tantalize the audience, putting
out only enough pieces to this puzzl-
ing mystery to keep even the most at-
tentive viewers on their toes until the
very final shocking sequence.

Jeff Bridges is the epitome of
“eool’’ as the rags-to-riches newspa-
perman accused of brutally killing
his wife for her money. His move-
ments, speech and presence all lead
us to believe that this charismatic
man knows how to get what he wants
by using those around him. Amazing-
ly, though, those he uses, and even
the audience, like this guy. He seems
that sincere.

Glenn Close plays the attorney who
reluctantly agrees to defend Bridges
and later becomes emotionally in-
volved with him. Her character is
tough yet vulnerable. She is bothered
by her past association with the

MTV and

;

district attorney to nail Bridges, angi
she fights for her client if only to
clear her conscience of that secret ih
her past. ‘

Two strong supporting perfor
mances are turned in by Peter
Coyote and Robert Loggia. Coyote
plays the secretive and ambitious
district attorney who goads Close in-
to defending Bridges. Loggia, mean-
while, is straightforward, crass and
full of one-liners. He’s a tough guy
with a soft heart, and he does every-
thing he can to convince Close to
avoid Bridges.

If there is one thing I disliked about
‘Jagged Edge,” it would be its slop
py editing. At one point in one scene
Close’s costume changes without rea
son and then changes back as if a few
seconds of film were spliced in just tv
complete the scene. Scenes occa,
sionally jump from one place to the
next, creating unnecessary jolts for
the audience. In this otherwise super
ior movie, such mistakes are almost
inexcusable. ’

Still, this is one movie I recom-
mend enthusiastically. ‘Jagged
Edge”’ will keep you on the edge of
your seat, and you'll leave the
theater with your heart pounding.

Disney

coming in spring -

 

By BILL HANNA
Teievision Critic

 

Well, it’s true. The rumors about
the Lexington Cable Co. expanding
the number of channels available are
justified.

Juanita Hamm of Lexington Cable
Co. said the company will add Cine-
max, the Disney Channel, the USA
Network, Nickelodeon, MTV and pos-
sibly others to its existing service.

Unfortunately, this process will not
be complete until sometime in the
spring because of the time it will take
to get the supplies needed to handle
the expansion and the work involved
in installing the new system.

There will also have to be an in-
crease in subscription rates to cover
the new services, but nobody should
have too much to complain about as
this is the first rate increase since
1981, according to Ham. The amount
of the increase will not be known for a
while, she said.

Turning to serious business, this
week’s review is of a new series on
ABC show Saturday nights at 8, ‘‘Hol-
lywood Beat.”

The show is about two policemen
halting the flow of crime in, you
guessed it, Hollywood. McCarren and
Rado are your typical young, enthu-
siastic crimefighters we have seen on
police shows for years.

I thought, ‘Maybe this won't be
just another cop show.’’ “Miami
Vice”’ is a cop show and it is good, so
maybe this will have some original
writing and good enough direction to
make it successful, but no such luck,
at least in the episode I saw.

The plot was one done on probably
every police drama ever made. Our
heroes are assigned to protect an ac-
countant who is going to testify
against a powerful underworld fig-
ure. They are shown disguising him,
sneaking him out of the courtroom,
but it’s no use. There is a leak
somewhere telling the evil criminal
every move the police plan to make
to keep the witness alive.

This is working out well, as they
think they have the criminal thinking
that the witness is already dead, but
only a cardboard cutout of the wit-
ness was shot.

Then another oft-used idea is
brought into the plot when one of the
cops falls for a girl he just met and
she turns out to be one of the killers. I
think I saw this on ‘Starsky and

Hutch” and at least a few other cop
shows.

I don’t think this show has much of
a future. The season is barely twa
months old and the writers are al-
ready watching repeats of other
shows to get their ideas. If they woul
start coming up with some origina
ideas instead of watching reruns, i?
may have a slight chance at a second
season.

In the news this week, NBC plans to
take advantage of the made-for-TV .
movie, ‘Fatal Vision.’’ NBC Presi-
dent Brandon Tartikoff liked the
character Andy Griffith played, and
the network is planning a series
about a country attorney called
“‘Matlock,’’ who is played by Griffith.,

ABC brought Lauren Tewes back
for an episode on the ‘‘Love Boat’’
and liked her performance. They arg
trying to find a spot for her in the
final episode, but are having trouble
fitting her in. The captain will marry
Emily Haywood, played by Marion
Ross of ‘‘Happy Days,” and Gopher
will leave the crew.

Now for the highlights, although
they’re cut short because of break.

Thursday: Two good thrillers will
be shown at 8 tonight. Channel 12 will
show “The Killer Elite,” starring
James Caan and Robert Duvall}
while HBO will have William Hurt,
starring in ‘‘Gorky Park.”’

WTBS will also have a good film at’
8:05 with “The Wings of Eagles,’’
starring John Wayne and Maureen ,
O'Hara and directed by John Ford.

Saturday: The Brian DePalma’
thriller “‘Body Double’ will be shown,
tonight at 9.

“Saturday Night Live,” after arf
improved second show, will try again
as Pee Wee Herman hosts the show
on NBC at 11:30 p.m.

Sunday: NBC will begin its mini»
series at 8 when George C. Scott stars,
in ‘Mussolini: the Untold Story.”

The rest of the week’s highlights’
are shown on local stations and,
wouldn’t apply to many of the stu-
dents while away, but anyone within’
WDCA’s range (channel 12 in Lexing-
ton) should tune in to the movies at 8
on Monday, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, Monday features ‘“Casablan,
ca,” Tuesday ‘‘One Flew Over the
Cuckoo,s Nest,’ and Wednesday’
“True Confessions.” All well worthy
watching, especially the first two.

One last reminder to those who are
planning to study over break. It
doesn’t work; watch some tube in,
stead.

 
