      
      
 
 

 
   
    
 
   
 

 

 

4

al

 

» Date rape

Greensboro

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 13

ce

 

+ By JIMSTRADER

News Editor

 

- two four-letter words that inspire as
much confusion as they do dread. ==
National statistics show that the phenomenon is in-

* creasing, and the once-taboo topic now is discussed on

talk shows and in popular magazines.
Although a number of Washington and Lee women say

Y they don’t feel threatened by the possibility, the Univer-

sity is taking steps to increase awareness of the issue.
According to Justice Department statistics, 47 percent

* of the women raped in the United States last year were
, raped by someone they knew — commonly referred to as

‘date rape.” That is about a 7 percent increase from the
previous year.

Though this number shows an apparent increase in the
occurrence of date rape, Michael Rand of the Justice
Department’s Bureau of Justice Statistics said in a
telephone interview that it’s difficult to say whether that
constitutes a trend.

Many victims are reluctant to report the crime when

[ the perpetrator is a relative, co-worker or date, Rand ex-

Bleacher excitement

Cagers edge

Page 6

 

 

Bleacher bums

 

Reports of date rape said to be rising

plained.

Rand said a 10-year survey by the bureau showed that
32 percent of reported rapes were committed by so-
meone known to the victim. That, though, may not be a
true representation of the pattern, he said.

“We've always had a problem detecting year-to-year
differences,’’ Rand said. “I would suspect that a
somewhat higher percentage of rapes than we report are
committed by non-strangers.”’

The Justice Department figures may actually under-
state the case. Bernice Sandler of the Association of
American Colleges said in a telephone interview that the
problem may be increasing.

A survey released Tuesday by the association’s Pro-
ject on the Status and Education of Women said women
knew their attackers in 50 to 75 percent of all rapes.

Cases involving co-workers, casual acquaintances,
former lovers, blind dates, relatives and friends all have
been documented as date rape, which Sandler called ‘‘a
real problem” on college campuses.

At Washington and Lee, though, a number of women
students and dormitory counselors said this week that

CO See Date, Page 5

Tonight last night

for thesis show
Page 8

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

General
Notes |

 

‘Chapel carols

, and Carols will be held tonight at

*versity Federation sponsors this

y

«sity Chorus and the brass ensem-

‘Please deposit

+ The Executive Committee and

+ Library and Law School for the

* needy of Rockbridge County.
,
A
* All books from the University

’

+ to the circulation desk by Satur-

*Live from the Met

* Richard Wagner’s ‘‘Lohengrin’’

4

*p.m. on WLUR-FM. “Lohengrin”

*

"tory.

’
*

The annual Service of Lessons
7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The Uni-

traditional service, which will
also feature music by the Univer-

ble.

the University Federation have
placed boxes in the University

contribution of clothes to the

Please return
Library with due dates on or
before Dec. 14 should be returned

day.

will be broadcast live from the
Metropolitan Opera Saturday at 1

is the most popular Wagner work
in the Metropolitan Opera’s reper-

Exam help

 

  
  
   

 

Your exam weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

90% chance of rain tomorrow
and much colder Sat., Sun.

 

DECEMBER 12, 1985

Freshman faces rape charge

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

A Washington and Lee freshman
was charged Sunday with raping a
Hollins College freshman in Graham-
Lees Dormitory.

Burgess A. ‘‘Tommy” Thomasson
Jr., 19, of Mobile, Ala., was arrested
at his dormitory room at 10:30 a.m.
and released from the Rockbridge
County jail Sunday night on a $10,000
property bond posted by a local bail
bondsman.

Thomasson is the president of the
Phi Delta Theta fraternity’s pledge
class.

A preliminary hearing will be held
Jan. 21. In Virginia, rape carries a
possible sentence of five years to life
in prison.

The incident is said to have occur-
red between 1 and 2 a.m. Sunday.
Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton

 

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

English Professor Jean C, Dunbar makes a point at Monday night’s EC meeting

said Sunday that the mother of the 18-
year-old woman first reported the in-
cident to police by telephone from the
Midwest.

The call was received at 4:42 a.m.,
but police were unable to locate the
woman. ‘‘We couldn’t find her
because the mother didn’t know,”’ he
said. ‘‘There was really nothing we
could do.”’

The police investigation was not
begun until 6:53 a.m., when an of-
ficial at Stonewall Jackson Memorial
Hospital telephoned the department.
Sutton called the delay on the part of
W&L security personnel ‘‘inexcus-
able.”’

Associate Dean of Students Anne
C.P. Schroer said she and a W&L
freshman drove the woman to the
hospital.

The woman underwent the gamut
of tests used in sexual assault cases,
and Sutton said a blood sample is be-
ing tested for alcohol and narcotics

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Control Committee
will now have a non-voting, woman
member to sit in on all proceedings to

4) offer insights to the committee.

After over two hours of public
debate Monday night, the Executive
Committee approved a motion to ap-
point an ad hoc, non-voting woman
member to the SCC in a 7-6 vote. Stu-
dent Body President John Lewis,
Secretary Mike Webb and represen-
tatives Bill Thompson, Pat Schaefer,
Pat Hayden and Bill Senft were op-
posed to the motion.

Hayden said yesterday after
meeting with Dean of Students Lewis
G. John that the EC may not have
had the authority to make the addi-
tion. He said John is checking
records to see if the faculty has given
that power to the EC.

English Professor Jean C. Dunbar,
representing the faculty members on
the Student Affairs Committee, was
present at the meeting to answer
questions the EC had concerning the
report she helped write recommend-
ing the appointment of a woman to
the SCC.

Proponents of the motion argued

content.

Evidence in the case includes parts
of the woman’s clothing and photo-
graphs of her jewelry and of Thomas-
son’s bed and room, Sutton said.

At least five students have been in-
terviewed by investigators, and Sut-
ton said more will be contacted.

The police chief said Thomasson
knew the woman but declined to say
whether she was his date.

Thomasson is being represented by
Eric L. Sisler of Lexington and G.
Marshall Mundy of Roanoke.

Sutton said that when Thomasson
was arrested, he was ‘‘cool’’ and “‘did
not resist,’ and ‘“‘when advised of his
right not to make a statement, he
chose to exercise that right.”’

Dean of Students Lewis G. John
was present while officers armed
with a warrant searched the dorm
room because the school wanted to

C See Charge, Page 5

SCC to have
female input

that a woman would feel uncomfor-
table approaching an all-male SCC,
especially in cases dealing with sex-
ual slurs, harassment or any other
situation with sexual overtones.

Junior dormitory counselor Sydney
Marthinson, who testified at an SCC
hearing earlier this year, said, ‘I
personally did not feel comfortable
bringing it before a committee of all
men.”’ She also said the woman on
the SCC would ‘‘add extra perception
toa body of all males.”’

Senior representative Michael
Black said the addition of a female
member would be ‘‘very advantag-
eous ... in any Student Control mat-
ter.’’

He added that the female ‘would
not Serve as an advocate for women”’
but would help present a ‘‘better ...
well-rounded view”’ of the case.

Not all women in attendance sup-
ported the proposal, however.

“T don’t think women need to be
singled out,’’ said freshman Barbra
Byington. Freshman Susan Lewis ex-
pressed her fear that appointing a
woman to the SCC might cause a
“terrible division of the student
body.”’

“T think the males that attend

| See EC, Page 5

Kappa Alpha leaves the Old South for Lexington

  
   
 

  
    
 

The Independent Union will
«have its cold test file on cage
, reserve at the University Library

starting today for all indepen-
* dents.

, SDX speakers

, The Washington’ and
Lee Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi
will present a seminar titled ‘The
, Ins and Outs of Finding Intern-
ships in Broadcast and Print’’
tonight at 7:30 in Reid 203. The
4; guest speakers will be Bill War-
ren, managing editor of The Roa-
noke Times & World News, and
» Paul Lancaster, public affairs
director of WDBJ TV-7 in Roa-
noke.

Computer training

.

rhe computer center will offer
+ microcomputer word-processing
classes for the IBM/PC and
Kaypro in January. See the ad on
+ Page 3 for details

j MDA meeting

There will be a general meeting
of the Muscular Dystrophy Super-

 

* dance Steering Committee Tues-

. day, Jan. 7 in the conference room
of the Student Center. All mem-
*bers must attend. Dancers are
,also reminded to take home
packets over the Christmas break

| "to raise pledges.

Ls oe

By JIM STRADER
News News Editor

 

Kappa Alpha is coming out of the Deep South
and moving back home.

Next month, the national offices of Kappa
Alpha Order will move from Atlanta to Lex-
ington, where the organization was founded in
1865 at Washington College, a forerunner to
Washington and Lee.

Sigma Nu, which was started at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, already has its national head-
quarters here.

‘“‘We want to get back to our roots,”’ said Greg

Cramming

Some helpful hints for surviving exam week ;

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

Singleton, KA’s national education and leader-
ship chairman. ‘‘We think it will be good for the
spirit of the brotherhood.”

Singleton said that Kappa Alpha, which cur-
rently has its national office on one floor of a
downtown office building, has been considering
moving to a permanent headquarters for some
time, and recently began to consider certain
areas of the country. ‘‘We just decided, ‘Why not
Lexington?’ ’’ he said.

In addition to the historical significance Lex-
ington has for KA, Singleton said the decision to
move north symbolizes the ‘‘drastic’’ expansion
of the organization, much of it in that direction.

While the group looks for a permanent loca-

to take first

Mack said that for freshmen, ‘‘Calculus is a good one

tion in town, temporary offices are scheduled to
open Jan. 6, and will be located in the Lexington-
Buena Vista Shopping Center, across Walker
Street from Maxway.

“We’re not sure where we're going to go,”
Singleton said. ‘‘We’re looking in and around the
Lexington area for a house to move into.”

One possibility being considered is Col Alto,
the mansion located across from the KA house
on East Nelson Street.

Jaimie Hayne, president of W&L’s Alpha
Chapter, said he was pleased with the decision.
“It will be a good thing for the chapter to have
national move here,”’ he said. ‘‘It shows pride in
the house’s heritage.”’

“You don’t want to take the hardest exam last because

 

you kind of get burned out.”’

“It will be really nice to have their input and
assistance when we need it,’’ Hayne continued.

“Tt will be nice to have them right around the
corner, rather than in Atlanta.”’

Hayne cited Rush and administrative respon-
sibilities as the major areas in which the na-
tional organization would be able to help,

KA’s permanent national office staff of five
people will relocate to Lexington, according to
Singleton. The remainder of the office staff, ad-
ministrative and clerical employees, will be
hired locally.

Singleton said KA plans to hold its National
Leadership Institute convention in Lexington in
the near future.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Freshmen: Thinking about taking all your exams at
the beginning of next week and getting a head start on
resting up for next term? Here is the rational side of the
argument.

“Obviously don’t do them all in the first three days,”’
says English Professor James Boatwright. He said he
“can’t see any pattern” in how people schedule particu-
lar classes to their advantage during exam week.

“It depends really on the course,’’ he said

Junior Jeff Mandak, a dormitory counselor in Gra
ham-Lees, has his own system for scheduling exams. ‘‘I
always take an easy one first, take my hardest one Mon
day, the next most difficult Wednesday, and my next
easiest the day I leave.”

Tom Mack, head dormitory counselor, takes his ex-
ams on a schedule similar to Mandak’s.

‘Just don’t cram them,” Mandak advised. ‘‘Take a
day in between for sleep and to gather your thoughts.”’

Avoiding burnout is something that both Mandak and
Mack warn against. “Always go to a movie Saturday
after your first exam,’’ Mandak suggested. ‘Relax.
You've got a lot more to go.”

Mack suggested going out for a long run or walk to
work off thé tensions built up by exams

According to both counselors, the best way to study for
finals is to make sure you've done all the work assigned
during the semester, and that you've made study out
lines from notes and readings

That way, notes and books don’t all have to be re-read
atexam time

‘And once you've taken a final exam,” Mack said,
don’t worry about it. And abide by the honor code.”’

+ - + 7
bwin ' et
eas fj}: ;
" ¥
> a .
> : i o °
2 . NV : x . =
- Ss.
i,
ee;
*e : ’ - i
a
o

e<,

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

S.R.O. for R.E.M.

These pavilion-goers don’t seem to mind the crowds at Friday night's
pavilion concert featuring R.E.M. and the Minutemen. Student Activities
Board Executive Director Mike Guerriero said he estimated there were

about 2,200 people in attendance Friday

 
 

 

 

 

 

.
*
-
.
.
+
:

‘

‘

So OO 8 ee OR e Re 88/8/08 S/eGye B.U)4, 4,8 eT

OPINION
Resolved

There are always those few, snide comments that everyone
likes to make about New Year’s resolutions. We know that
any resolution made is rarely kept. Surely, few are remem-
bered longer than the hangover — if they last even that long.

But because resolutions often are idyllic and quixotic is not
sufficient reason not to make them. This campus especially
needs a few exceptional resolutions — exceptional in that
they might, just might — be taken seriously even when the
New Year has begun.

eFirst and foremost, we cannot ignore the proposed an-
drogynization of a historical text and Washington and Lee
course. Charles Darwin, when he sailed upon the HMS
Beagle (Was that a bitch or a stud or had it been, as Bob
Barker says, spayed or neutered? ), attempted to understand
how life began. At that time, human (Gads! There’s that dirty
word again! Hu-person-kind?) life was referred to as ‘“‘man-
kind.”” Even Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary
refers to “man” as “the human race: MANKIND, the
bipedal primate mammal called Homo sapiens.’’ But since
classics are on the decline these days, why not change Dar-
win’s book title, as well as the reference to that text in the
course name? Let’s resolve that courses will be courses,
classics will be classics, and men will be men while women
(Gads! Wo-persons? Woe to such! ) will be women.

eLet’s also resolve that ‘‘rape”’ will not be a frequently us-
ed word in the discussion of events on this campus. Rape
speaks for itself as a heinous crime. Any rape is one rape too
many, especially when it occurs on a campus where “‘gentle-
men”’ (as Lee said it, not gender-binding) reside. The vicious
gossip that allows rape because he/she ‘‘deserved”’ it or
‘“‘was asking for it’”” demeans the campus as much as the in-
dividual who uses the four-letter word.

eLet’s resolve that the faculty and students and the student
government will make a better effort to communicate with
each other. When a faculty member has to resort to im-
mature behavior and idle threats to press the student govern-
ment for an action the professor believes necessary, some-
thing is awry. With the recent student body honor hearings,
administration, faculty and students have become ever more

 

- leery of the other’s intentions. Honor cannot bé instilled or

nourished in such an atmosphere. It is especially important

| for the student government and the administration to work
closely. Let us work together to that end.

Finally, let’s resolve that we will be honest enough to ad-
mit when a job is well-done. It is always easy to identify a
task sloppily executed. As this year draws to a close, we
know that several administrators and faculty will not hold
the same posts at this same time next year. They — Com-
merce School Dean Edward C. Atwood, Associate Dean of the
School Pamela H. Simpson, and University Tresurer E.
Stewart Epley — deserve credit for service faithfully
rendered. Being quick to praise and slow to damn is a mind-
set worth cultivating.

Finest hours

The following is reprinted from The Ring-tum Phi of Dec. 6,
1984.

For seven days beginning Saturday at 2 p.m., Washington
and Lee will enjoy its finest hours. Students will be studying,
faculty will be correcting, and coffee sales will soar. The
campus will be quiet, except for the groans heard when the
bell tolls noon or 5 p.m.

But besides the subtle changes in appearance, the Univer-
sity’s finest hours come with the onslaught of final examina-
tions, for in those quickly passing hours is the character of
the school put to the test. Washington and Lee has an Honor
System, but not just any honor system. Our understanding of
honor allows us to schedule our final exams, make those ex-
ams without a proctor frantically pacing the room observing
the slightest blinking or nodding, and trusts that those
students who have completed exams will maintain a code of
silence until the examination period has finished. That is a
luxury few college students are afforded in this nation.

So, in these few frantic hours remaining of the fall term, as
you sit studying those notes you took last September in fine
handwriting and a green felt-tip pen, remember that you are
part of an exceptional process, a system that at once refines
character while defining it. At test this week is not merely a
myriad of courses, but a way of life.

On my honor, I have neither given nor received any
unacknowledged aid on this editorial.

Jul on Sebders m-

alte alas uamameaiaara cn cummvanmiciny

Che Ring-tum Phi

RS er Pe ee Mike Allen
jg ERT ERUEURSR TTT KTR TRE re Pere ry Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
ee Be re ee Lee Reade Williams
I hike rh es ce be 10s 0s 0s ss Mike Stachura
po tt Se ei oy rena er ee ee Nelson Patterson
PI 55 iv be Ra racer cee cr Lege usec er bedbotvecserrscereneceen Jim Strader
Es Es in Sa ean rc bbe eae Sa beee Ped eehe Chris Bowring
ga ee reer ee a ee Jeff Kimbell
ee ee ee Hank Greenberg
Vir OR Keri Hinrichs
John Feyrer
Jay Reville
Co EER ee ce ee eee Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

lineal descent of
their protechordate ancestry through the
vertabrate classes to the cultural begin-
nings as understood from the fossil evi-
dence, the evolutionary process, and the
geological background.

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985

An attempt to trace tke
"W&Lun" from

   
  
  
 
  

 

5

 

 

EC decision disrupts student unity

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

“What can it hurt?”

That was the argument at Monday
night’s Executive Committee meet-
ing of students favoring addition of
an ad hoc woman member to the all-
male Student Control Committee.
Serving as a ‘‘consultant’”’ to add a
“woman’s perspective,’’ this student
would help to make the experience
less intimidating for other women
and the system appear “fairer,”
while not herself casting a vote in the
punishment deliberations.

Proponents of the ad-hoc member
note that she would only be on the
oo for a year, and “that can’t

urt.’”’

I disagree.

The addition of an ad hoc member
will be very detrimental. The majori-
ty of male undergraduates feels that
undergraduate women have already
received their ‘‘quota’” of special
treatment for the year. Adding
lounges in the dorms, lights on the
Colonnade, and cutesy flowers on the
dining hall tables has already anger-
ed many men. The addition of a
female member to the SCC would be
more galling.

Both sides for and against the addi-
tion of an ad-hoc member said that it
was not “such a big deal.” If it’s not
such a big deal, it could just as well
be asked, then why add a woman?

“Tf you believe in something, stand
up for it,”’ the adage says. People did
stand up on this issue, and they stood
on opposite sides of the fence. But by
the end of the meeting, the controver-

sy was approaching threats and
name-calling. After the vote was cast
and the EC had decided to allow the
female ad-hoc member, the debate
moved to the dorms.

I saw this issue dividing the ‘‘fresh-
women’’ — indeed the entire fresh-
men class — into ‘‘us”’ and “‘them.”’ I
also see it driving another spike bet-
ween the upperclassmen and
freshmen, or men and women. This is
an awful lot of controversy over
something labeled ‘‘no big deal.”

I want to be considered first as a
member of the Washington and Lee
student body and secondly as a fresh-
man. The addition of a woman to the
SCC demands that the women in the
student body are treated — unneces-
sarily, I believe — as a separate enti-
ty.
If and when it is necessary I should
appear before the SCC, I think a

woman’s input and presence on the
board will be comforting. In that
sense, I am glad the decision hag
been made. But it also seems that it
will cause resentment among Wash-
ington and Lee students. If a female
ad-hoc member could have been ad-
ded without all this controversy or
the ensuing division of the freshmen
class and the student body, then it
couldn’t hurt.

Meanwhile, we must live in a tense
atmosphere and endure the ‘‘grief”’
the decision has caused. Unlike the
remark by the faculty member at
Monday’s meeting, this decision will,
in the long run, raise far more hell in
the student body than it would ever
have raised among faculty or admin-
istrators. The addition to the SCC will
actually benefit relatively few peo-
ple, while the detriments will affect
many.

 

 

   

‘

Student demands EC fire SAB head

To the editors:

The R.E.M. ticket fiasco is proof positive that
there is no excuse for allowing Mike Guerriero to
continue as head of the Student Activities Board.

Because of R.E.M.’s immense popularity, the
SAB, over Guerriero’s objections, wisely decided
to impose a two-ticket-per-person limit, so W&L
students who wanted to purchase tickets would
have that opportunity. The SAB also put up
posters all over campus which said tickets would
be available ‘‘Monday-Friday” of last week for
the Friday concert. Guerriero said in last week’s
Phi that 1,550 of the 2,000 tickets were sold on
Monday and Tuesday. With only three days in
which to sell them Guerriero, in his incalculable
wisdom, decided to lift the restriction, leaving
many W&L students out in the cold. To make
matters worse, the only people he bothered to in-
form of his decision were those buying tickets on
Tuesday (most of whom didn’t want any more)
and, presumably, his fraternity buddies.

Did Guerriero assume that everyone knew by
Monday or Tuesday whether they or their dates
would or could attend? I have talked to at least
half a dozen people who didn’t know until
Wednesday, then found out that Guerriero had
decided for them that they didn’t need tickets
after all. Did Guerriero think the remaining 450
tickets wouldn’t sell during the three remaining
days they were advertised for sale? Nobody with
a brain could think so.

Obviously, Guerriero saw very little value in
protecting the interests of the student body,
although that’s precisely what he’s supposed to
do. He must have seen a much greater value in
selling out as quickly as possible, leaving himself
more time to ponder how much of the next
semester he can spend cruising on a yacht.

If the EC wants someone whose main purpose
in running the SAB is to pad his resume, fine.
Otherwise, it is the responsibility of the students’
representatives to fire Guerriero immediately
and appoint someone who is interested in serving
the students, not just himself.

Ken Jacoby
Class of '86

Lewis details exam policy

To the editors:

I would like to address the ladies and
gentlemen of the class of 1989.

One of the many benefits we enjoy as a result
of our honor system is the scheduling and self-
proctoring of our exams. You are about to take
your first exams here at Washington and Lee.
This letter is merely a clarification of the rules
under which we take exams.

All exams during the examination period from
Saturday, Dec. 14, at 2 p.m. to Friday, Dec. 20, at
5 p.m. are ‘‘hot.’’ That is, no aspect of any exam
should be discussed during this period to prevent
a student who has not taken the exam from gain-

ing unfair academic advantage. Even mention-
ing how long the exam took or how you think you
performed on an exam has been viewed adverse-
ly by the Student Body. At Washington and Lee
we believe such strict adherence to rules has
been beneficial, since without it, our open exam
policy would be impossible.
Best of luck on all your exams and best wishes
for a happy holiday season.
John B. Lewis
Student Body President

Professor lays down the law

To the editors:

I will be teaching two sections of Politics 102
this winter term. Ground rules are as follows: 1)
Classes will start on time; 2) Latecomers will not
be admitted; 3) No food may be brought into
class; 4) No gum may be chewed (the only place
a lady can chew gum and remain a lady is in an
airplane.) 5) No smoking; and 6) Three allowed
cuts, roll taken.

Milton Colvin
Professor of Politics

Students oppose EC vote

To the editors:

In light of the recent decision by the Executive
Committee to appoint a female ad-hoc member
to the Student Control Committee, we feel that a
few points should be brought to the attention of
the W&L community. This letter is meant to be
neither bitter nor accusatory, but is only the opi-
nion of some students. We are not trying to blow
out of proportion that which should not be con-
sidered a “‘big deal.’’

To begin with, many people who may have
valid arguments against the proposal of an ad-
hoc member were neither informed of the meet-
ing nor aware of the issue. The majority of the
“crowd’’ present might have been in favor of the
proposal, but the opposing side wasn’t given time
to lobby support. In addition, the idea of polling
students to determine the majority’s opinion was
refuted by supporters of the proposal on the
grounds that it would plant seeds of doubt in the
public’s mind about the effectiveness and
fairness of the established system which is at
present considered fair. If this is the case, is not
the proposed amendment planting the seeds of
doubt? Does a system which is already deemed
fair need to be changed at all?

The view that a woman’s perspective on many
affairs is different from that of a man’s was rais-
ed, but who is to say that: a) all women think
alike, b) all men think alike, and c) no men are
sensitive to women’s concerns. We, as members
of the freshman class, feel that we are justly re-
presented by our elected representatives and
that an ad-hoc woman is unnecessary. Women
have been a part of the W&L community for 15

years as law students, and the system has been
thought of as fair up to this point; so why should
it change with the introduction of undergraduate
women? Cases in the past have involved women
from other schools and have also had fair out-
comes. Knowing this, some have said that there
should only be this ad-hoc member for one year
to ease coeducation, but if it is only needed for
one year, why is it needed at all? Others wish to
set a precedent in that a woman always be ap-
pointed, because women are supposed to think
differently from men. As we all know, however,
the EC does not follow precedent. Each circum-
stance is judged individually. Legally, we need
to have a jury of our peers, and we feel that we
have that now. A non-voting member couldn’t
even, technically, be considered a member,
necessary or not, of this jury of peers.

Granted that there are some good points to the
proposal; but the likely ramifications outweigh
them because this could lead to a division of the
student body. Because some women may per-
ceive some things differently from some men,
other minorities may feel, and justly so, that
they deserve an ad-hoc member to the SCC since
some of their views may also be different. Being
risk-acceptant enough to join the first class of
women, it should be obvious that we are not
afraid to “rock the boat.’’ We are tired of being
singled out as a lump group of women instead of
simply being members of the class of 1989. We
wonder how this ad-hoc woman can be chosen in
the “interest of fairness.’’ What qualities should
be looked for? Sympathy toward womankind,
open-mindedness, or psychological well-being?

Should we now lose faith in this EC, as it was
suggested others would do had the outcome been
the reverse, because it didn’t vote in favor of our
individual views? No. We will accept this deci-
sion because we refuse to lose trust in people we
have duly elected and in the system for which
W&L stands, simply because a democratic sys-
tem allows for judgments with which everyone
cannot agree.

Barbra Ann Byington
Ashley L. Gray
Susan C. Lewis

Class of ’89

Parade participation lauded

To the editors:

As chair of the 1985 Lexington Christmas
parade, I would like to thank the groups from
Washington and Lee who helped make the
parade a tremendous success: Southern Com-
fort, the ROTC color guard, the Phi Delta Gam-
ma fraternity, the WLUR-FM Marching Radio
Band, the student clowns and Robert J. deMaria.

Their support and participation is greatly ap-
preciated.

Cheryl M. Shaw
Lexington

 

 
*
m
‘

via

 

1
|
ys
i

_ than time away from Lexington

a
i

Christmas vacation means more

Ae AON emer
MY VIEW

By John Pensec

 

I can’t wait to go home for breaks. I
have a rather large family, and we
all get along well. Holidays in my
home have always been occasions of
happiness. We have leaned on each
other in times of trouble. I am
grateful for that. It is a blessing to
have a family I can depend on.

When my exams are over, and they
can’t be over too soon, I will definite-
ly be in a hurry to leave Lexington. I
will travel up the interstate and into |
the Northeast to large meals, and
games of Trivial Pursuit, and fires
roaring in fireplaces. I will exchange
gifts with my parents, brothers,
sisters, and grandparents on Christ-
mas morning — or afternoon, de-

' pending on when we get up that day.

If we are lucky, there will be snow.
Even though white Christmases tend

SERVICITAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

 
   
 
  

to be on the rare side, we can still
hope.

Breakfast that morning will be
delicious; it always is. The smell of
pancakes and sausage will blend with
that of the turkey roasting slowly in
the oven. It will be a lazy day.

The scotch pine tree is silver, and
we will forever be picking up the
stray strands of tinsel. The orna-
ments on the tree are a mixture of the
past and present. Some have been
handed down from my grandparents,
and then there are those that my
parents give each of their five chil-
dren every year.

I enjoy going home. It is not only a
change of pace, but it is also a chance
to keep things in perspective. Wash-
ington and Lee is a beautiful place,
but it is not the real world. The people
you meet and associate with are
special. They shape your mind dur-
ing the four years that you are here,
and in that way place a permanent
mark on you. I will think of those pro-
fessors and students that I have come
to call my friends on Christmas and
hope they are having as nice a day as
I will be having.

Unfortunately, we all have to leave
this hallowed place eventually. There

7}
Thr
4
i
)

poffmarEL/ re Florist

 

165 South Main St.

Good luck on exams, students!

Have a Merry Christmas and
A Happy New Year!

will always be ties to the school;
.wachers, fraternity, etc. And the fact
that we all are a part of the history of
W&L binds us together. But some of
the ties will become loosened over
the years.

With family it is different. There is
a special tie between a parent and a
child, a brother and a sister. They
are permanent fixtures in your life,
people who are willing to stand
beside you when no one else is. From
them you draw the stuff of which you
are made: the good qualities and the
bad.

Among the presents opened on
Christmas Day will be ones that
aren’t right. Maybe the argyle
sweater your grandmother knitted
has one sleeve longer than the other.
Maybe, by accident, you and your
brother give each other the same pre-
sent. It doesn’t matter.

What does matter is that after the
wrappings have been thrown away
and the last bit of stuffing devoured,
a gift remains. It needs no wrapping,
and there is always some left over. It
is the gift of love, and, if you are as
lucky as I have been, it will be wait-
ing for you when you finish your ex-
ams.

  

463-9152

 

 

 

| Due to the request from students the
ooo SNACK. BAR.will remain open later--<«»«
on these nights with SPECIAL

HOURS for EXAM WEEK

   
   

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985, Page 3

  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
    
  
   
   
    
   
    
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
       
       
     
     
  

11o N. MAIN ST.

10-5 MON. — SAT.

"103 - 4b3- 3683
Your local

CUISNART
dealer

  

 

   
 
   

an CNT A BS Meh

 
 

  
  
   
  
  

Friday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Sunday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Monday — 8 p.m. - 12a.m.
Tuesday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Wednesday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Thursday — 8 p.m. - 11 p.m

  
 
   
   
   
 

 

  

Egg Mc Quicks will be available for 99°
English muffin egg

Along with FREE coffee

The Snack Bar & Supply Store will BE OPEN ON
SATURDAY from 8 a.m.-2 p.m. December 14 for your
con

cheese ham or bacon

        

 

  
    

    

   
 

 

| Christmas Ideas!
$ ™* Gitman Brothers — SHIRTS ARE HERE -
The ultimate in cotton shirts - Get several for

the holidays.

Word Processing

The Computer Center will be offering classes in WordStar

and Word Perfect during January.
undergraduate students to attend.

! Sue Ruley will be teaching two beginning WordStar classes
«| for Kaypro word processor users on Tuesday, January 14,
and Wednesday, January 22, at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb Hall,
Room N-36B. Each class will cover formatting diskettes,
backup, and basic WordStar commands.

Two Word Perfect classes will be taught on Thursday,
January 16 and Tuesday, January 28, at 7:30 p.m. in Reid
Hall 3rd floor News Room for ISBM/PC users. Each class
will cover formatting diskettes, backup, and elementary
word processing functions.

We expect a large response to the above listed classes, so
please sign-up as soon as possible with Joanna Meade in the
Computer Center, X8842, Tucker Hall, from 8:30-4:30,
Monday-Friday.

We look forward to offering advanced classes in the future
for those of you who are experienced users of the microcom-
puters.

SRO SG SL ARE SAEED RST NO iA 3 ON Pm NMR DET Ta ANOMALOUS MEM MA 9 IER A TSMR BAM OR pot em SE

We invite all

* Duckheads — 300 pair - Hopefully never to
run out - Every size and color.

* Gifts For Moms - Sisters in our Ladies Dept.
— Cotton sweaters and lanz gowns.

* Do well on your exams — Leave the shop-
ping and wrapping to our competent staff.

College “foun Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985

 

 

 

Stores set to open

Additions to the College Square Shopping Center north
of Lexington on U.S. 11 should be ready for occupancy by
February. Two stores, Hair Mates of Staunton and the

 

=

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Lexington Sherwin-Williams, are scheduled to open Dec.
20 after several delays. Construction at the Kroger shop-
ping center has been going on since summer.

Sophomores, male law students
now can apply for dorm counselor

 

Staff Report

 

For the first time in the Universi-
ty’s history, the Dormitory Counselor
Selection Committee will consider
rising sophomores and both male and
female law students for positions as
dorm counselors for next year.

In the past, only rising juniors and
seniors were eligible for the 28 dorm
counselor positions. Male law stu-
dents had not been eligible for the
positions ‘‘in recent memory,”’ said
Dean of Freshmen H. Robert Hunt-
Jey. Four female law students cur-
rently serve as dorm counselors.

“Two things made me think about
a change in policy,” Huntley explain-
ed “One innior counselor we have

this year came to [W&L] with strong
recommendations from Sweet Briar
where she had served as a sopho-
more counselor. She had done a good
job there.”’

“Additionally, psychologists say
people learn best from others who
have just gone through an exper-
ience,”’ Huntley added. ‘‘In the case
of dorm counselors, this could be
especially helpful for freshmen try-
ing to get adjusted to college life.
Recency of experience is something
we need to consider.”’

Huntley said that applications for
the positions will be available after
Christmas break from Penny C. Hen-
neman in the dean of students’ office.
He said he expects 80 to 90 applica-
tions for the 28 positions, although he

said, ‘‘nine counselors are definitely
returning as rising seniors and four
female law students might return as
well.”

When the application is returned,
interviews for qualified applicants
are scheduled with the Dormitory
Counselor Selection Committee,
composed of Huntley; deans Lewis
G. John, Anece F. McCloud and Anne
C.P. Schroer; University Counseling
Psychologist James W. Worth; and
the current head and assistant head
dorm counselors.

Huntley noted that a letter of re-
commendation from a faculty advi-
ser or professor might also be re-
quested with next year’s applica-
tions.

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Reacting to what Dean of Freshmen H. Robert

Huntley calls a ‘ten-fold’ increase in dormitory

_ damage from the first four weeks of this academic year,
the University has said it will enforce a rule that says
students living on the hall near the damage must pay for
the cost of repairs of damage by “persons unknown.”’

As the notice released Dec. 2 reads, ‘The University is
going to invoke a statement in the dorm contract which
says that residents, on a given hall (including adjacent
stair wells), are jointly responsible for all damage done
to common areas.”

Payment for such damage will come out of the fresh-
men’s $100 damage deposit.

“It’s a nuisance to the University,” said Huntley. ‘It
bespeaks a certain amount of immaturity.”

Head dormitory counslor Tom Mack said he foresees
success with the new policy.

“Obviously this is not going to stop dormitory van-
dalism, but hopefully this will slow it down,”’ he said.

Mack, who calls the damage “ridiculous, stupid and
mindless,’’ said he cannot understand why people van-
dalize the dormitories.

“T can’t see anyone getting rocks off by breaking a
window,” he said.

“T think the idea is to convey that you’re paying for the
damage that you do,” he said.

“This will help put a little red signal in their minds.”’

Kathleen Plante, a dormitory counselor in Graham-
Lees, said she was surprised when she saw the new rule,
but thinks it’s fair.

“The girls were really shocked when they saw that,
and I was shocked too,”’ said Plante. However, she said,
“T think it’s fair, but the majority of the girls on my hall
don’t.”

Plante said most of the damage occurs between the
hours of 2 and 5 on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday
mornings. She said her hall was usually free from
damage and that she felt the destruction was occuring in
the sections of the dormitories occupied by males.

“T think it’s more prevalent on the boys’ halls,” she
said. ‘‘Our hall generally is very clean, very neat.”’

She said the problems on her hall consisted of writing
on the walls and floors as well as their hall rug being
thrown out a second-story window.

Plante said when she catches students damaging the
dormities, she decides what plan of action to take.

“T use my discretion whether to turn that person in to
Student Control, or just to talk to the person,’’ she said.

She said she believed W&L freshmen were responsible

school cracks down
on dormitory damage

for the dormitory damage. ‘I would be under the im-
pression that other freshmen have done it,”’ she said.

Of the new University policy, Plante said, ‘‘I don’t feel
very threatened by it because I don’t expect any
damage.”

Catherine McCubbin, a freshman on Plante’s hall,
feels the rule is fair, but does not like having to pay for
other people’s destruction.

“T don’t think anyone likes that,’’ she said.

McCubbin said she thought that both W&L and non-
W&L students are responsible for the damage, which,
she says, occurs after people return from parties.

“I think most of it is people in the University. Some of
it, I’m sure is by people not connected with the Universi-
ty,” she said.

“Basically people go out and party and come home
drunk and throw the rug out the window.”

“T think the rug was funny but the malicious things
bother me,”’ she said.

McCubbin said she felt her hallmates would take re-
sponsibility for any destruction they caused.

“] think if any one on the hall did something they
would own up toit,”’ she said.

Janna Johnson, a counselor in Gilliam, said that until
Huntley’s notice, she was unaware of vandalism
because there is none on her hall or in her dormitory,

“I didn’t hear too much about damage except from
that note,” she said.

Buildings and Grounds Superintendent James L. Ar-
thur said that, in the past, damage to ‘common areas,”
such as stairwells and doors, were not taken out of the
student’s room deposit, as the rule now states.

Now, ‘‘All common area charges will be broken down
between the people on the hall,”’ Arthur said.

He said that over the years approximately 75 percent
of the freshman class received their entire room deposit
back at the end of the year.

“It’s bound to change,”’ he said.

Huntley said this type of plan was considered last year
because of the high amount of damage that last year’s
freshman class caused.

The Class of ’88 was, in Huntley’s words, ‘‘one of the
most destructive freshman classes we’ve ever had
here.”’

Huntley added that there is a possibility of stricter
rules in the future.

He mentioned a rule that would call for the expulsion
of any student who discharged a fire extinguisher more
than three times in instances other than fires.

He said not only is the cost for recharging the ex-
tinguishers high, but there is a danger of a lawsuit
against the University if a student is injured during a
fire where there is insufficient emergency equipment.

Two new trustees express views on University, honor

Wife of former Virginia governor elected to board

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

A former first lady of Virginia
whose first contact with Washington
and Lee was as a Fancy Dress date
has been named to the Board of
Trustees.

Virginia Roger Holton, who will
serve a six-year term beginning Jan.
1, said this week she was very im-
pressed with the profile of the fresh-
man class and she hopes that W&L
can continue to attract top-notch
students.

“T see no reason that Washington
and Lee cannot be nationally recog-
nized as an academic center,’’ she
said, /

She would also like to see a greater
geographical diversification of the
student body including more ex-
change students.

Holton said both she and her hus-
band supported coeducation and they
were disappointed that neither of
their older sons had considered W&L

| a APE
Staff Report

—

because of its single-sex status.

Holton said that as a trustee, she
would like to see a pooling of re-
sources among smaller colleges such
as W&L that would allow an ex-
change of outstanding faculty.

She said she hopes that ‘‘coopera-
tion can overcome differences in en-
dowment” that make smaller col-
leges miss the opportunity of attrac-
ting a true specialist or outstanding
lecturer.

She said she can also envision a
televised lecture circuit so that small
colleges could share professors and

not have to duplicate faculty mem-
bers.

“We have the technological capaci-
ty to do a lot more sharing of a truly
distinguished lecturer,” she said.

Noting that as a member of a Uni-

versity of Virginia board of trustees
she always tried to talk with stu-
dents, Holton said she hopes to meet
with a lot of W&L students in

February, when the Board next
meets.

“T want to find out about problems

CSA.

 

English Professor Edwin
D. Craun this week receiv-
ed a year-long research
grant from the National
Endowment in the Humani-

that students might have that the ad-
ministration has not picked up on,”
she said.

After earning a bachelor’s degree
from Wellesley College, she attended
the School of Language at Middle-
burg College and the Latin American
Secretarial School in New York City.

The State Department stationed
her at the American embassy in
Brussels for two years, and she also
worked as an analyst for the Central
Intelligence Agency in Washington.
Washington.

In 1953, she married Linwood
Holton, a 1944 graduate of W&L who

served as governor of Virginia from
1970 to 1974.

From 1974 to 1982, Holton was a
member of the University of Virginia
Board of Visitors, chairing the
board’s academic affairs committee.

She is vice chairman of the Con-
serve Virginia Campaign of the
Nature Conservancy and is on the
board of directors of the Virginia En-
vironmental Endowment. She is also
a member of the board of the Univer-
sity of Virginia medical school fund.

Staff Reporter

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS

1964 graduate favors single sanction

Regarding the Honor System, Ogil-
vie made the distinction between the
letter of the law and the spirit of the

 

law. He said that sometimes the

 

 
 

A

VIRGINIA ROGER HOLTON
yaaa, ee ,

W. BUCKNER OGILVIE

 

NEWS BRIEFS

lore about the the ‘Sins of the Tongue’ as they explore
how, why and with what consequences their characters
consciously misuse language.”

Craun’s project will build on his previous studies of
medieval blasphemy. He has written and published a
number of articles on the topic, which he researched
during the 1981-82 academic year as a Visiting Fellow of

Goebel, a W&L senior from Coolville, Ohio, also partici-
pated in the survey. Randall Ray, a 1985 graduate, serv-

ed as a field and lab assistant.

W&L given $2.75 million

   
 

The newest alumni-elected
member of the Board of Trustees
Says there is a danger the Honor
System would disappear if the single
sanction were eliminated.

The trustee-elect, W. Buckner
Ogilvie of Houston, will serve a six-
year term, beginning Jan. 1. He was
elected at the board’s Oct. 25-26
meeting.

Ogilvie, a 1964 graudate of Wash-
ington and Lee, was elected by a vote
of the alumni. He intends to ‘“‘solicit
and be responsive to the alumni.”’

He is executive vice president of
Excalibur Computer Systems Inc.
and holds a master’s degree from
Massachusetts Institute of Technolo-

gy.

At W&L, he was elected to Phi Beta
Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He
was co-captain of the varsity football
team and an Executive Committee
representative for three years.

Professor Craun receives NEH grant for study at Oxford

death he was the senior partner of Tucker, Jeter &
Jackson in Shreveport.

One of Tucker’s greatest contributions was founding
the Louisiana State Law Institute in 1938, The institute
made possible modernization of the state’s civil code
and served as a model for law reform throughout the

DpIPit Ui iNe taw cue Ve Considered
as opposed to the letter, but it is up to
the current EC to maintain the Honor
System.

Ogilvie has served as a member of
W&L’s Alumni Board of Directors,
vice chairman of the Annual Fund,
president of the Houston chapter of
the W&L alumni and chairman of the
Houston Honor Scholarship Commit-
tee.

The trustee-elect said he was
against coeducation when the issue
first came up.

“T was wishing it was 1960 again,
but it’s not,’’ he said. ‘‘We had a
woman running for vice president
and it was time.”’

After thinking about the issue, he
added, ‘‘I’d have voted for it.’’

Ogilvie said he has no particular
plans for the University.

“T’ll do the smart thing and listen
for a while,” he said.

ties.

Edwin D. Craun is one of
111 scholars nationwide
selected this year to }
receive NEH Fellowships |g
for College Teachers.
Nearly 700 applied for the
grants, which support in-
dependent study projects in
the humanities.

Craun will conduct his
research during the next
academic year, when he
plans to be on sabbatical leave from Washington and
Lee. His proposed project, ‘‘Anatomies of Deception:
The Abuse of Language in Middle English and Scottish
Literature,”’ will be a book-length study of lying,
slander and blasphemy in late medieval religion and
British literature.

“Central characters in all types of late medieval
literature use words habitually to misrepresent them-
selves, their associates, and even their gods, just as
readily as they use words to distract and befuddle
others, ’ said Craun in a statement. “‘I plan to examine

 

EDWIN D. CRAUN

 

how major late medieval British writers use traditional

University College at Oxford University under W&L’s
program of faculty exchange with Oxford.

Food drive raises $2,500

The Interfraternity Council’s fall term community
service project, a canned food drive, raised about $2,500
worth of food for the Lexington Food Basket Program,
headed by Col. Richard B. Minnix. The food will be add-
ed to $1,400 of food and toys already collected by the
program, and presented to needy families in the Lex-
ington area in time for Christmas. The food was pre-
sented to the program Monday night.

Survey looks at farms

Asurvey of log farmsteads in Rockbridge County con-
ducted by Washington and Lee’s archaeology labora-
tory has provided important information about 19th
century settlement patterns of the Scotch-Irish in the
upper Shenandoah Valley.

The survey, conducted for the Museum of American
Frontier Culture in Staunton, identifies 16 farmsteads
and takes an intense look at 10 of the sites. Kurt C. Russ,
research archaeologist at W&L, directed the survey.
John McDaniel, professor of anthropology, and Ted

Washington and Lee has received a $2.75 million be-
quest from the estate of Mr. and Mrs. John H. Tucker
Jr. of Shreveport, La.

To honor. the bequest, the University has designated
the faculty library in the School of Law the Hortense
Rigby and John H. Tucker Jr. Faculty Law Library.

Tucker, a 1910 graduate, died May 22, 1984. His wife,
Hortense Rigby Tucker, died Jan. 16, 1984.

“Mr. and Mrs. Tucker's lifelong devotion to Washing-
ton and Lee and their abiding interest in education will
be permanently memorialized through their magnifi-
cent gift,’’ President John D. Wilson said of the bequest.
“We are grateful beyond measure for their lives and for
the benefit their bequest will bring for future genera-
tions of students and teachers.”

Tucker was born Feb. 25, 1891, in Pine Bluff, Ark. At
W&L he was a member of the Albert Sidney Boat Club,
the Student Committee, and the Sigma Nu social frater-
nity. He received the bachelor of arts degree.

Tucker served in the Army in 1916 on the Mexican
border and in World War I. He was recalled to service in
World War II and reached the rank of colonel. He
retired from the Army in 1951,

After receiving his law degree from Louisiana State
University in 1920, Tucker began practicing law with
the firm of Smitherman and Tucker. At the time of his

United States. It worked to modernize civil procedure
and codify criminal law.

Cappeto wins award

Michael A. Cappeto, associate dean of students and
director of placement, has received the 1985 Outstand-
ing Professional Award from the Virginia Association
of Student Personnel Administrators.

Cappeto’s honor marks the second time a Washington
and Lee administrator has received the award in its
four-year history. Lewis G. John, dean of students at
W&L, received the award in 1983.

The award was presented to Cappeto Friday at the
organization’s 25th annual conference in Richmond.

The Outstanding Professional Award is presented an-
nually to the administrator who has displayed “‘excep-
tional judgment and creativity in addressing current
issues and problems” and who is recognized by col-
leagues and students as “competent, effective and
knowledgeable in the field of student personnel work.”’

Cappeto is a 1970 graduate of James Madison Univer-
sity. He received his master’s degree in psychology
from JMU and his doctorate from Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University. Cappeto joined the W&L
faculty in 1975.

 

 
 

| -

\Big bro

| "Senior Jack Benjamin entertains some of the young
* participants in the Big Brother-Big Sister program at a
* , Mizza party held last Thursday night in the University
Center. The program, sponsored by the University

«

Si? Pe Rae RO’ Ti

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Federation, allows Washington and Lee students to
spend time with and help community children. Ben-
jamin chairs the University Federation, and senior Jim
Kerr heads the Big Brothers group.

By STEVE SADLER
Staff Reporter

 

A plan to alleviate parking pro-
blems by building a satellite lot for
freshmen was branded by students
last week as being ‘‘unfair,’’ “‘unreal-
istic” and ‘‘ridiculous.”’

The proposed locatidn of the
fenced-in lot. beyond the athletic
fields in the Liberty Hall and pavilion
area drew the mischievous sugges-
tion that a monorail be built to tran-
sport students to and from their cars.

Frank A. Parsons, executive assis-
tant to the University president, pre-
sented the plan for comment at
Thursday’s University Council meet-
ing. Students in the audience reacted
with disbelief and criticism.

Parsons explained the plan was in
response to criticism from the Lex-
ington City Council of the Universi-
ty’s failure to provide adequate park-
ing facilities.

The council required improved fac-
ilities before it would approve the
master plan, Parsons told the au-
dience. The 200-300 additional spaces
that will be added upon completion of
the master plan are an integral part
of the required improvement, ac-
cording to Parsons.

Student Body Vice President An-
drew Caruthers opposed the idea,
saying a parking lot that far away
“would be too inconvenient and un-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985, Page 5

fair to the freshmen.”’

“The freshmen pay just as much
tuition as I do,’’ Caruthers said.

Parsons’ responded that, ‘“‘Fresh-
men don’t use their cars on a day-to-
day basis,”’ and that with the social
changes coeducation brings, the in-
convenience to freshmen will be
minimal.

Sophomore Executive Committee
representative Brad Root, said he
was “much against” the idea.

“T feel it would be unfair to incom-
ing freshman classes,” Root said.
“They were told they could have cars
here, but no one mentioned a 34 mile
walk to the parking lot.”’

“They could have been more just to
all by choosing a different location,”’
he added.

The question of student safety was
brought up by sophomore EC repre-
sentative Pat Schaefer.

“It is a ridiculous idea. Parsons’
idea of students parking at the dorms
late at night and getting up at 8 a.m.
to go park is unrealistic.”

“Students will be walking to and
from that satellite lot at night,”’ he
continued.

The lot will be fenced in for securi-
ty, according to Parsons.

Schaefer contended the fence must
be locked to do any good. “A
locked parking lot will curtail severe-
ly the students’ access to their own
automobiles,” he said.

Parsons suggested that the lighted

Parking location proposal
draws protest and ridicule

walk in the Law School area could be
used to get there safely.

When a member of the audience
told Parsons that using that route
would double the distance, Parsons
responded, “I guess you’ll just have
to choose.”

The parking plan goes on to pro-
vide one parking space per law stu-
dent. Special Law School parking
permits will be issued and students
will be required to park in an improv-
ed Law School lot.

Parsons explained that this would
free space for Woods Creek resi-
dents, who will be required to park
there.

The dirt lot across from the plan-
ned coeducational $8 million dormi-
tory will be improved to facilitate 50
to 60 vehicles and will be reserved for
dorm residents.

The Admissions House, which will
be the Admissions Office after it
moves to 32 University Place, will
have a special parking area for its
own use. Also, Parsons said, the plan
for the dorm must be re-submitted to
the zoning commission and the City
Council because it is within 200 feet of
a city street.

The dorm plan may be approved by
early next month, in which case dem-
olition of the former bottling plant
will begin in February. Ground-
breaking will be in April, and the con-
struction time is forecast at 15 mon-
ths.

Committee formed to increase W&L alcohol awareness

 

| Sy DEBORAH HATTES
| Staff Reporter

 

¢

‘ A new university committee was
created this year to deal with alcohol
end drug issues on campus.

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto, a chairman of
» the Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee, emphasized that the
cgmmittee is ‘‘not prohibitionary.”’

“We're not trying to tell people to
not drink, but of the consequences to
themselves and the community,”
Cappeto said. “Their behavior will
not be excused because of irresponsi-
ble drinking.”

,

The committee is divided into three
subcommittees and is composed of
faculty members, administrators,

Date

students at large and representatives
from the Student Control Committee
and Interfraternity Council.

The three subcommittees, health
awareness, counseling and _ policy
and administration, deal with the
committee’s main purposes, which
are:

eTo make students aware of the
physical and behavioral conse-
quences of alcohol abuse.

eTo provide counseling and other
support services for people with
alcohol or drug problems.

°To assure
a fair disci
with people who violate institutional
standards because of drinking too
much or usingdrugs.

Cappeto also explained the reasons
for creating the committee. He said

mary opal bok

the University realized three years
ago that ‘‘very little was being done”’
to educate students about alcohol and
substance abuse.

Also, at that time there were not
any “clearcut rules or regulations
governing unacceptable behavior ex-
acerbated by the use of alcohol.”’

The Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee’s plans include reviewing
the existing policies and working on
drafting new ones, and reviewing the
educational and counseling services

available for people who haye an

aleohol problem, €appetosaid. »

Also, the committee is planning
some educational activities about
alcohol, which will probably occur
during an Alcohol Awareness Week
in the winter term.

said the resident advisers at Hollins take a different ap-

proach,

“At Hollins my freshman year, the RA always gave a

The University’s Alcohol and Health Awareness Com-
mittee took these facts about alcohol from three
quizzes.

¢ Alcohol is a depressant drug. It’s initial euphoric ef-
fect may cause the appearance of a stimulant, but this
soon gives way toa less active response.

alcohol intake.

eA 12-ounce can of beer, a five-ounce glass of table
wine and 12 ounces of 80 proof liquor all contain about
the same amount of alcohol.

On the average, it takes 25-30 minutes for alcohol in
the blood to reach a peak after you have had a few

eNothing sobers up a drunk except time. A cold
shower or black coffee will not help.

As a general rule, it will take twice as many hours as
the number of drinks consumed to completely sober up.

«Alcohol creates the sensation of warmth, but it does

 

 
    
   

 

C) Continued from Page 1
date rape is not a major concern.

“Everybody always thinks it won’t happen to them
—it’s like a car accident or anything else,” said
Associate Dean of Students Anne C.P. Schroer, who

 

“noted that date rape is ‘‘a hot topic’ in counseling and
«Gacademic circles as well as in the nation’s press.

Schroer, who said ‘“‘date rape”’ is ‘‘a whole new term

(fiugt in the last few years,” said the problem is not new,

bnt that women are now more willing to discuss it.
“Junior Kathleen Plante, a dorm counselor, said she

.>@did not introduce the issue of date rape to her freshmen.
Plante, who transferred to W&L from Hollins College, .
’

long talk on what exactly date rape is, what her inter-
pretation of it was, and what exactly we should do in
case we felt something like it happened,”’ she said.
“Hearing that at Hollins my freshman year always
put sort of an air of fear in it and I certainly didn’t want
to do anything like that to the girls on my hall,’ Plante
continued. “I never mentioned it to any of the girls on
my hall, because I think that if they were confused about
anything like that they would come and ask me.”’

Whether she would consider a situation to be a case of
date rape would depend on the individual cir-
cumstances, Plante said. ‘‘If in some respect she is con-
senting, then I think that leads to an unforunate situation
that shouldn’t be classified as rape,’’ she explained.

    
 

— Bi

Charge

 

1 Continued from Page 1

protect the interests of Thomasson as
w@ll as the woman, News Office
Director Brian D. Shaw said.

‘John, a W&L alumnus, said he can-
not remember another time in his 22
years with the University that a W&L
student has been accused of rape.

Sutton said the actions of the W&L
security official who had been called
to the dormitory shortly after the in-

 

4) Continued from Page 1
his school are intelligent enough to
‘ngw what is sexual, racial reference
wr whatever, and they can represent
ne,”

Webb said, “I really don’t think
outting a woman on Student Control

 

ho S. Jefferson St.
on

waaahs

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

 

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

 

cident were ‘totally inadequate,’’
but noted it was the individual and
not the University\that was at fault.”’

: “He did not secure the scene and he
did not notify the police depart-
ment,’’ he said.

Assistant Proctor William C.

“Burr’’ Datz said there ‘‘definitely”’
wik be some changes University

policy for future cases.

“The police will be called in the
event of a felony and escorted and
assisted in their investigation,” he
said. '

“Things’ll bea lot quicker.”’

will help any.”’ Hayden said much of
the faculty as well as a large number
of students were opposed to the ap-
pointment.

Townes Pressler, SCC chairman,
supported the proposal, but he said,
“T feel that our committee ... could
judge it [a case involving a woman]
fairly.”’

Dunbar said that if the EC voted
against the proposal, ‘‘There is going
to be hell to pay.”

   
 

Cal Bpar ae

Paul's
momla

att wittt
they

be
do
be

both here

Meet sstezat

1f the persone nho re—
moved the sign from
Mnglican

please

not,
considered

net actually raise the body temperature. Actually, it

eA person’s judgment is the first function affected by

Committee lists alcohol use guidelines

dilates the blood vessels, bringing more blood to the
surface to be cooled.

eIn Virginia, one is presumed to be under the in-
fluence of alcohol when the blood alcohol content
reaches .10 percent.

eBy spacing drinks according to an easily learned
schedule, it is possible to contiue to drink at a party
without getting drunk.

eLarge people can drink more than smaller people
and have the same effects.

eOne of the real dangers of drinking games is that
drinking too much alcohol too quickly can be fatal.

¢Following conviction for driving under the influence
of alcohol, a driver’s automobile insurance premium
may increase as much as 300 percent.

¢Forgetting what you did while you were drinking is
called a blackout and is one of the first signs of develop-
ing alcoholism.

Alcoholism is a physical addiction to alcohol.

eAlcoholism cannot be cured.

 

Sandler said the perceptions of both men and women
often are confused as to what constitutes rape. In a
report released Tuesday, Sandler and co-author Julie K.
Ehrhart said many male and female students answered
negatively when asked if they had ever been involved in
arape, yet admitted either to forcing sex or allowing sex
against their will.

“Date rape is more out in the open and people need to
think about it,’’ Sandler said. ‘Women are really more
vulnerable to date rape than other types of rape.”’

An increasing number of college campuses, Sandler
added, are operating programs designed to heighten
awareness of rape.

Freshman Lucy Anderson said communication is the
key to preventing such situations. ‘‘If there’s a sincere
lack of communication, that’s where you start having
problems between the two people involved,” she said.

 

The size of W&L is an asset to communication, Ander-
son said, “I think it gives you a feeling of fraternity,”
she said. “‘I think that a rape case would probably havea
lot less likelihood of occurring here, at least among W&L
students, because of the close association of students.”

Because of the nature of these relationships, Plante
said she would expect that ‘‘if date rape were to happen,
it would much more likely to happen with a girl from a
girls’ school than it would with a girl from W&L.”

Schroer agreed, noting that W&L women tend to be
“much more independent’’ than students at the area
women’s colleges, meaning they have more confidence
to express their values than students who have been less
successful academically and socially.

Women today, she continued, are more likely to feel
that they have “the freedom to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ ”’ and ©
that ‘‘they don’t owe anybody anything.”

 

 

SS ipa Ot ta

   
 

St.

Chawch

115 S. Main Street
“For your extra pieces of furniture’’

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers
463-2742

 

 

 

return ft,

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

forgiven. ITF
they may
thieves,

cima tm «(the

 

ropp

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails® Wine@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

OUR CHRISTMAS SPECIAL

5% of sales in the electronics.department and
25% of sales in all other departments
FROM NOW UNTIL DECEMBER 23, 1985
GOES TO FLOOD RELIEF PROGRAM.

3 Only those items with Fropps tags qualify

 

29 N. Main Street
Old Main Street Mall
Lexington, Virginia
E. Nelson St.

463-2186

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:60
Sun, 1-5

 

 

Wendell's
Barber

Shop

| need your head for
my business.

 

 

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

 

21 W. Washington St.

Plan Now
For
Washington’s
Holiday
Break and
Spring
Break

Call 463-7174

 

 

 

 
 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985

 

 

 

 

 

Larry Anker gets a takedown in his match at 142 lbs.

Grapplers pin Apprentice

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Team captain Larry Anker led a
middle-of-the-match surge by his
fellow grapplers as the Washington
and Lee wrestling Generals opened
their 1985-86 dual meet season with a
35-13 pin of a Newport News Appren-
tice last night in Doremus Gym-
nasium.

Anker’s fall at 142 lbs. started the
ball rolling for W&L and enabled the
Generals to turn what had been a see-
saw affair into a blowout. W&L won
five bouts in a row from 142 lbs. to 190
Ibs.

The win comes on the heels of a
second-place finish at the W&L In-
vitational, a finish that although a
pleasant surprise, according to head
coach Gary Franke, did not make the

grapplers overconfident for the Ap-
prentice match.

“We thought they'd give us a close
match,” Anker said.

And indeed it was a close match
from the start. Senior Win Phillips,
the Generals’ 167-pounder, opened
things with a pin. The match then
bounced back and forth in the early
weight classes.

Apprentice’s Winn Traylor made
things closer with a decision over
junior Jeff Mazza at 134 lbs. But then
Anker and Co. took over for the
Generais.

Following Anker’s crushing vic-
tory over Brian Cox, the Generals
rode successive wins by sophomore
Kevin McNamara (150 Ibs.), and
freshmen Mark Robertson (158 lbs.),
Richard Redfoot (177 Ibs.) and
George Loupassi (190 lbs. ).

Dedicated

Wa&L will go into intense training over break

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams, with only five
meets between them, are now enter-
ing a month-long period of extensive
training, void of actual competition.

While, to the armchair athletes
among us this period may appear
monotonous and excessive, it is ac-
tually an extensively calculated nec-
essity, without which the team would
have a difficult time drawing the
types of athletes that they do.

“This is the hard part of the sea-
son,” freshman Jeff Bercaw said.
“‘Now is when the yardage really gets
poured on...you can’t withdraw what
you don’t put in.”

Training for swimmers varies ac-
cording to event: sprints, middle
distance or distance. Depending on
the swimmer’s event, he will focus on

certain aspects of the team’s five
main training areas: speed, anaero-
bic threshold, lactate tolerance and
race-pace. The common
denominator for the swimmers of the
various events is the amount of train-
ing. During this middle period the
training is relentless and there is lit-
tle chance for rest.

“Sprint training is very fatiguing,”
head coach Page Remillard said, ‘‘so
you need that early in the season. We
can’t have any quality performances
on the weekend, but since we don’t
have any meets that’s OK. It’s like a
pyramid, and right now they’re get-
ting the base.”

The fact that the team’s schedule
has a lapse in competition is a for-
tunate coincidence for the swim
teams. The swimmers are free to
work on their base. Having meets at
this point would not only force the
team members to taper back on their
workout, but there would also be the

aa gr ey

ee

i By Appointment 463-9588
Robin Peggy * Marie

Marie's Kain Sylens

AEE

Old Main St. Mall §
Lexington, VA oe |

LS ER EE ) GRRE) ERS () RE () ED <M () GREED.) aE 0 eee) <eme

       

Frank’s Pizza

Luncheon Special 11-3

10’’ Minipizza w/1 topping

10’’ Minipizza w/3 toppings

plus
Free Drink

 

463-7575 or 463-3133

$1 OF F

Large Pizza

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Though he commented, ‘‘I’m pleas-
ed,’ Franke let his co-captain tell the
Generals’ success story.

“I was really pleased with our per-
formance. It was a good team effort,
and we blew them out,” Anker said.

At Saturday’s Invitational, the
Generals got good performances in
the clutch to earn their second-place
finish. The tournament was tight,
and only nine points separated five
teams entering the final round com-
petition.

The Generals were able to win five
of their six matches in the consola-
tion and championship finals, in-

_ cluding championship wins by Anker

and McNamara.

The team takes the next month off,
not competing as a unit until the
Johns Hopkins Quadrangular on Jan.
11. Individual grapplers will compete
at the Maryland Open on Jan. 4.

negative effect of the relatively poor
performances that would result from
the drain of training. In this sense,
Remillard believes the team is in a
strong position.

“It is fortunate that the team beat
Shippensburg and they don’t have
any meets so that they won’t be get-
ting any negative feedback. We can
keep them happy,” Remillard said.

Because mid-season training is so
crucial for the swimmers, they will
be coming back Dec. 29 to finish off
their vacation with two-a-day prac-
tices and weight training. Toward
mid-January the teams will begin
tapering down on training as they
resume competition, with the inten-
tion of peaking at the Tri-state cham-
pionships.

“Our big concern is conditioning.
To train these systems physiological-
ly and metabolically, you cannot
have big lapses in training. What is
really nice is that I think our swim-

 

= Avoid the city rush and do your

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee basket-
ball Generals took a 20-minute war-
mup before they began to play. Un-
fortunately, that warmup came after
the opening tip-off. But W&L manag-
ed to bounce back in the second half
in impressive fashion to defeat the
Greensboro Hornets, 65-64.

The Generals earned their third
victory in six starts in front of
another boisterous, partisan W&L
crowd.

Early in the first half, the Hornets
spent most of their time taking the
outside shots and, for the most part,
making them. When the Generals ad-
justed their defense to try to compen-
sate, Greensboro began to pound the
ball inside, and were again very suc-
cessful.

Trailing 15-14 with just under nine
minutes remaining in the half, the
Hornets’ Jeff Patton made the same
shot from the’same spot (in the left
corner) on three consecutive posse-
sions to put the Hornets up 20-15
before W&L coach Verne Canfield
called a time out.

Freshman Manny Klump came off
the bench and sank his first shot to
make the score 20-17. Then, the 5-7
frosh drew a charging foul from the
Hornets’ 6-4 Tracy Frost that caused
the crowd to erupt with cheers and
spurred the Generals on to two con-
secutive baskets by sophomore Steve
Hancock to put W&L back on top,
21-20.

But the Generals’ offense sputtered
over the remaining five minutes,
scoring only three points, ail on free

throws, and the half ended with ~

Greensboro ahead, 30-24.

“In the first half, we weren’t get-
ting the rebounds and there were too
many possessions where we didn’t
get a shot,”

In the first half, we weren’t run-
ning the offense,” said W&L head
coach Verne Canfield. ‘‘We weren’t
getting the rebounds and there were
too many possessions where we
didn’t get a good shot.”’

In the first half, the Generals were
out-rebounded 21-13 by the taller,
quicker Greensboro squad.

mers really understand that,’’ Rem-
illard said.

With all of the charts, percentages,
and miles of swimming, one might
think that W&L is scaring off some
recruits, but Remillard points out
that the reverse is the case.

The quality swimmers look for
schools with programs such as
W&L’s that not only call for a high
degree of dedication, but also apply
the results of current research to
their programs. In this way, Remil-
lard points out, the school’s draw of
quality swimmers is a result of hav-
ing a “legitimate” program.

With sucha program, and such ath-
letes, Remillard sees the team in a
very positive light. ‘“‘They really
believe in themselves. I’m real hap-
py with the size of the team, their
depth, and the fact that we can really
give defending champions Fairmont
State a run for their money at the Tri-
states.”’

      

The Generals began the second
half in the same manner that they
ended the first half: by not scoring.
In fact, almost two minutes expired
before team captain Fred Bissinger
drove the lane to put the first W&L
points on the board. At this point the
Hornet lead was eight.

Three more minutes of ineffective
offense followed, but then the

Generals came to life. They became
more aggressive, and began to pres-
sure the Hornets.

Led by sophomore Harmon Har-
den, who scored all of his 12
points in the second half, and by Biss-
inger, who also did all of his scoring

 

7 Cagers stop G-boro, 65-64

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Pi
Rob Spencer takes a baseline jump shot last night ‘

(eight points) in the final period, thé
Generals mounted their comeback. »

For two-and-a-half minutes, start,
ing with 8:30 to play, the General
scored 10 unanswered points to put
them in the lead at 59-52. W&L useq
defense and foul shooting, including a
pair of free throws by Harralson witli!
30 seconds remaining, to ~ on for.
the win.

“We set the offense in the second
half, enabling us to execute better, +
Canfield said. ‘‘We also rebounded
better in the second half, and theré
were only four possessions in the sec,
ond half where we didn’t get a @pod
shot.”

 

ME a

Ow
ba

'
|

i |
ig a ey et

‘0, 0
" Mi!

1 i |

oaeeneesnws®

aca sa

A A a a RIE

 

ee ee

 

 

Alvin-Bennis

Fine Men’s Apparel

Lexington, Virginia

Christmas shopping here.

E.S. Deans Sweaters

Bass and Walkover Shoes
London Fog Raincoats

Formal Wear and

Accessories

HEU

IH

 

HUM

Woolrich Outerwear

Sero Shirts

Cashmere and Herringbone

Topcoats

Ceramic Items for Sale

Free Gift Wrapping

MasterCard

=]
: W&L Belts and Ties
Duck Head Pants
Kangol Hats
Visa
eT

Choice

RUTH

Student Charge

. Ell

JUDE

eH ee

saa

we

 

ay oa

 

ei Sl A

we ” a w “ i) Cy

 
 

 

FR

ae

 

 

 

 

Xmas ‘jeer’

....Mistletoe and Turf toe. Egg nog
and something called the Florida
Citrus Bowl. Candy canes and foot-
ball games in the middle of the week
during the day not on ESPN. Yes,
sports fans it’s Christmastime and
before we get to those infamous pro-
gnostications, I believe ol’ St. Nick is
going to make an early stop in that
quaint little hamlet known as Sports-
,town, where everyone’s favorite sports personalities reside.

Now, some of the inhabitants have been good boys and girls. The
rest have perhaps had their moments. In any case, all will get their
just rewards.

It’s always a chore to get that special someone the gift that’s just
right. Is it the right size? Is it the right color? Is it the right style? Will
it end up thrown in the closet with Dad’s ‘‘I Love Rehoboth Beach”
glow-in-the-dark tie(s), Mom’s ‘‘Bake Your Own Christmas Tree Or-
paments”’ Kit, and the family Masters version of Jokari, that inept
tennis-racketball-Jarts combination game that looked so easy at Sears
and ended up wrapped around telephone wires when you got it home.

Santa doesn’t have that problem. You see he knows all the right
gifts, or at least what everyone deserves and delivers it promptly.
Take his first stop for instance: It’s the home of a new resident on the
block, William Perry. Santa likes William simply because he would
probably fit into his suit and he could easily pull the sleigh, too. Pro-
blem is, Santa’s been seeing too much of The Refrigerator off the field,
in places like McDonald’s and Bob Hope’s Christmas Special. In an ef-
fort to remind young William who he is, Santa’s dropping off a case of

TIME
OUT....

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

. Diet Coke ... for Mr. Perry’s head, the only part of his body that needs
to lose weight.

The next chimney that the bearded, jolly one must navigate is at the
posh home of brash John McEnroe. Santa always has had trouble with
little Johnny, but this year, thanks to lovely Tatum, St. Nick has found
the perfect gift. You see, Daddy O’Neal has been boasting about soon
being Granddaddy O’Neal and Santa thinks it would be just dandy if
John and Tatum were blessed with a new addition. That way John
would have someone on his behavioral level.

Santa’s been watching a good deal of TV lately and especially on
Monday night. He’s dropping similar packages at the Gifford, Namath
and Simpson homes; Job offers, something in door-to-door sales where
their true wit will be allowed to flourish, I believe. Anything to keep
them on the road and off the air, Santa says.

Right next door to the Simpsons is the Cosell home. Santa’s dropping
off some slippers and plenty of warm milk so Howard can sleep. Truth
of the matter is, Santa wanted to drop this off last Christmas but never
got around to it. See what problems it caused.

Indeed, there are a number of sportscasters on Santa’s route. Roy
Firestone is being delivered more recognition. (He’s everything
Howard dreams he could be.) Bob Costas is down for an NFL Fact
Book, so Santa said, ‘‘What the heck!” and gave Ahmad Rashad one,
too. And Santa figured Brent Musburger (not Dennis Duggan) could
use just a few more cliches, so he stuffed as many as he could into little
Brent’s stocking.

There are others on the list. George Steinbrenner is getting coal
again. But this year, Santa’s going to let Peter Ueberroth deliver the
two-ton bag. Julius Erving is getting a very sweet swan song this year.
And Santa’s going a little out of his way to drop a whole bagful of
presents to the NCAA. Actually, I only thought it was a whole bagful of
presents. Turns out, each present is the same: a day’s supply of com-
mon sense.

The final stop this year is a house that has a moving van in front of it.
Oh yes, it’s the Fausts’ residence. Poor Gerry. He’s had it tougher
than Charlie Brown. Santa’s found just the thing for Gerry. There’s a
high school in Glenville, Minn., that hasn’t won a football game since
Jimmy Carter was president. They need someone like Gerfy-there,
someone who doesn’t measure success in terms of wins and losses but
by the number of times you smile each day. Santa likes that.

That’s all Santa has for now. He was going to see if he could instill
some prognosticatory prowess in me, but as you can see below, he fail-
ed. Merry Christmas....

Here, for your comedic enjoyment is the way I see the holiday grid
clashes going. Hint: Save your money for FD....

CALIFORNIA
Bowling Green 34, Fresno State 18

CHERRY
Maryland 22, Syracuse 14

INDEPENDENCE
Minnesota. 17, Clemson 14

HOLIDAY
Arkansas 38, Arizona State 10

LIBERTY
LSU 20, Baylor 14

ALOHA
Alabama 27, USC 6

FLORIDA CITRUS
BYU 33, Ohio State 30

SUN
Georgia 28, Arizona 9

FREEDOM
Colorado 24, Washington 14

GATOR
Oklahoma State 15, Florida State 6

ALL-AMERICAN
Michigan State 21, Georgia Tech 17

BLUEBONNET
Air Force 23, Texas 10

PEACH
Army 27, Illinois 17

COTTON
Texas A&M 31, Auburn 20

FIESTA
Michigan 13, Nebraska 6

ROSE
Iowa 24, UCLA 17

SUGAR
Miami 37, Tennessee 34

ORANGE
Oklahoma 22, Penn State 21

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985, Page 7

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

Holiday Storage
While your celebrating the holidays,
store your valuables ina secure place.
$5°° ber person
Callor come by:
Pres Brown’s Inc.

115 W. Nelson St. 463-3521 __

      

 

The champs

Here they are, the champs of the
great indoors. The hall of senior
David Lewis took top honors in the
First Annual Dorm Volleyball tour-
nament with a win in the champion-
ship match on Tuesday night. They
are (from left to right, first row)
Paul Eyerly, Bill Crabill, Jim Linza,
Scott Yates and William Martin;
(second row) Coach David Lewis, Ri-
chard Grace, Tom Wingfield, Clark
Peterson and James Ambrosini. (Not
Pictured: George Sporacio).

The only team to go undefeated,
David Lewis’ hall captured the
Freshman Volleyball Championships
with a 15-3, 15-9 victory in the final.
The first floor of Davis dorm attri-
butes its success to its supportive
fans, excellent coaching, and over-
whelming team togetherness, ac-
cording to Coach Lewis.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

IM ban on Sigma Chi ends; Law Ill leads

 

By MATT HARRINGTON
Staff Reporter

 

Three months after intramural of-
ficials decided to “‘make an exam-
ple’ of Sigma Chi for missing an
organizational meeting, the fraterni-
ty once again is being allowed to par-
ticipate in IM sports.

“Banning us for the entire semes-
ter was ridiculous,” said senior John
Meloy, Sigma Chi’s president. “I can
see maybe taking some points away
from us, but banning us for the entire
term seems a little extreme.”

Junior Fred Bissinger, director of
the IM program, said that last year
several fraternities failed to attend
important meetings, hurting the
whole program.

“We had a lot of slack fraternities
last year, so when Sigma Chi’s direc-
tor didn’t show up at the meeting, he

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
         
    

was sort of made an example of,”
Bissinger said.

The pre-vacation Turkey Trot was
Sigma Chi’s intramural debut, put-
ting the fraternity four sports behind
the others and costing the house
many valuable participation points.

“If they do well the rest of the year,
they should be able to make up some
ground against the other fraterni-
ties,’ Bissinger said. Meloy, though,
said he was concerned about the
fraternity’s final standing. ‘We've
always had good participation in
IMs, and not getting points for four
sports is really going to hurt us,”’ he
said.

Bissinger said he relented after
meeting recently with an officer of
the fraternity.

“T didn’t want to punish the whole
fraternity for one guy’s mistake,” he
said. “I made my point, but I don’t
want to beat a dead horse.”’

Because of increased fraternity en-
thusiasm, intramurals this year
“have been going much smoother”
than last year, Bissinger said.

Law III won this fall’s football and
racketball competitions, Phi Delta
Theta captured the golf title and Phi
Kappa Sigma took first place in ten-
nis.

individual Resuits: FOOTBALL — Ist:
Law I1f (100 pts.); 2nd: Law | (97 pts.); 3rd:
Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha (92 pts. each).

TENNIS — Ist; Phi Kappa Sigma (100 pts.);
and: Detta Tau Delta (97 pts.); 3rd: Law iil,
Phi Kappa Psi (92 pts. each).

RACKETBALL — Ist: Law II! (100 pts.);
and: Pi Kappa Alpha (97 pts.); 3rd: Law |, Pi
Kappa Phi (92 pts. each).

GOLF — Ist: Phi Delta Theta (100 pts.); 2nd:
Pi Kappa Phi (95 pts.); 3rd: Law II! (90 pts.).

ne

 

Grerny

Christmas Blowout Sale!

22 Watt AM/FM Cassette.
Reg. $260

now *159

614”’ Coax Speaker
Reg. $80/pair

now *OL1.,.. nie

7 Band, 25 Watt Equalizer
Reg. $150

NOW

For Your Car

Boston Acoustics

   

JVC

Cassette Deck w/Dolby B
Reg. $125

NOW

Fully Automatic Quartz
Lock Turntable
Rego

NOW

Linear, Tracking, Fully
Automatic Quartz Lock
Turntable
Reg. $240

NOW

TURKEY TROT — Ist: Law | (100 pts.); 2nd
Pi Kappa Aipha (97 pts.); 3rd: Phi Kappa
Sigma (94 pts.)

Current IM Standings

(After 5 events)

1, Law tll 473
2.Law!t 49
3. Phi Delta Theta 417
4. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 416
5. Phi Kappa Psi 415

Pi Kappa Alpha 415
7, Pi Kappa Phi 414
8. Sigma Nu 40)
9. Kappa Sigma 378
10. Chi Psi 370
11. Sigma Phi Epsilon 366
12. Beta Theta Pi 364
13. Kappa Alpha 344
14. Phi Kappa Sigma 343
15. Delta Tau Delta 295
16. Phi Gamma Delta 286
17. independent Union 236
18. Lambda Chi Alpha 211

Zeta Beta Tau 211

 

 

5’ 2-Way Speakers
15

per pair

4’ Full Range Speakers
Reg. “ 49 pe ir
NOW

per pair

 

 

 

 

AM/FM Receiver
Reg. $500

NOW

*37

   

100 Watt/Channel §
AM/FM Receiver @
Reg. $650

now *400

VALUE MART

Component Home & Car Stereos * Water Beds ¢ Furniture * Appliances « TVs « Video Sales & Rentals

 

 

 

 

Financing Available -

‘satteriaseee

 

261-2544 2175 Magnolia Avenue Buena Vista sama:

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi,

December 12, 1985

 

 

 

| Hey, what’s the score

_ These actors are part of Washington and Lee’s Univer-
‘sity Theatre production of “Bleacher Bums.’
-is directed by Senior Chris Carmouche as his senior
~ thesis, and he described the play as swinging ‘‘back and

’ The play

a

—

-

a

Te

es gs

~

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

forth from the cheerful and raucus to the deadly seri-
ous.”’ The production is the second of the University
Theatre’s season and the last show is tonight. For ticket
information, call the University Theatre at 463-8637.

;=

 

ae CHOW Hounds SU

ggest

Estelle’s brew ‘n’ pool

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

The exam week blues. The “D
hall” is serving chicken livers and
donuts and you've run out of money
for pizza. What is the ravenous yet
humble Washington and Lee sophisti
cate to do? In our never-ending quest
for chow, we may have found the
solution.

Estelle’s Grill located on North
Randolph next to Leggett’s, is no
secret to Virginia Military Institute
cadets, but still relatively unknown
to the W&L crowd. The first thing we
noticed was that coat and tie are not
required. We weren't even sure if
shirt and shoes are required but we
decided not to find out.

Estelle’s is an interesting place
Picture your local Exxon converted
into a restaurant. Add some pool
tables, jukebox, and decorative
paintings of sad kittens and you've
got the picture. Not to say that this is
bad. Estelle’s lack of pretentiousness
is really quite refreshing. It’s a place
to eat food, drink beer (National
Bohemian, preferably) and play
some pool.

We seated ourselves and waited pa
tiently for our waitress to take our
order. Forty minutes and eight Willie
Nelson songs later, Chris decided to

Bite of Big Apple is mixed blessing

 

-By PAUL DAVEY
-Social Critic

 

> Walking out the door of the train

“station, you might think you had just
fallen into a bait can full of live
minnows. Movement everywhere
— cars, taxis, people, buses, even a
white standard poodle wearing black
boots. The first thing to do is to act
like one of the minnows so as not to be
swum through in this bait can that is
New York City.

Over the recent Thanksgiving
break, this reporter traveled to New
York to see the city and get in a few
job interviews. I found the place to be
amazing — in ways both good and
bad.

Where else but New York can one
be immersed in three different cul-
tures at once — those of Italy, China
and of course New York (distinct in
itself) in the span of a few minutes?
Or eat some of the best food this side
of Texas? Or be interviewed by some
of the most powerful financial institu-
tions in the world? Or see one of the
finest museums in America?

But on the other hand, where else
does one have to endure a ride ona

subway car packed as tight as a case
of Ruby Reds in order to get to work?
Or where else does one have to dodge
scores of loud gentlemen wearing
multi-colored ‘‘Members Only”
jackets while searching for one’s séat
in a big “‘Garden”’ where basketball
is played? Or where else do citizens
need to be reminded not to spit on
public transportation vehicles? Or
where else does one need to place a
dozen locks on one’s door in order to
stop the oozing element of hooligans
and criminals?

Despite ail that, I had an enjoyable
stay — however, I was not moved to
cancel my Thanksgiving Day flight
to Florida in order to experience
more of ‘‘The City.”’

While in New York, I visited a
number of interesting places, such as
Park Avenue, SoHo, Chinatown, the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, a
Knicks game, “‘Little Italy” and Wall
Street. In retrospect, one must admit
that New York City is overrated.
Sure there are lots of neat shops on
Fifth Avenue, but their merchandise
can also be purchased in many other
places. Shopping in these stores
saves one the hassle of fighting off
street vendors hocking grossly fake

 

(Pre-ott-so)

ticipating Pizze Hut*

sh.

Bizza

 

 

Pri-4z-zo

you ll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut? Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants

cash redempt t9kU Pizza Ine ¢

  
 

Hut.

Please present coupon when order 1g Not valida

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

een
Pizza

$QorF

Lexington, Va.
463-7000

Bo

z
&
a
g
§
zg
5
600 E. Nelson St.
e
$
é
*

1
25 fe nS

 

Rolex watches and Gucci purses in
order to buy something. I shopped in
a Tiffany’s that so resembled a
Kmart that I kept my eyes and ears
wide open for the Blue Light Special.

Another store I saw is a huge, glit-
zy Limited. For the gentlemen of the
student body who are unaware of
what the Limited is, it is an extreme-
ly successful women’s clothing store.
However, one need not travel to Fifth
Avenue to purchase the tangerine,
yellow and lime Wednesday night
party garb the Limited sells. The
chain operates a store in every two-
bit shopping mall in the country.
Another well-known store in New
York is Brooks Brothers. While the
New York store may be bigger, it
seems to have all the same things the
branches do, maybe just more of it. I
suppose having 60 size-42 blue
blazers is necessary to keep pushy,
cigar-chomping New Yorkers from
getting in one another’s ways.

As far as the old pastime of party-
ing goes, New York really is a fun
place. I patronized a number of bars
and each had an interesting and
diverse atmosphere. One was Mex-
ican, one Californiaish, one very Neo-
Art Deco and another apparently was

a college alumni hangout. (I hope the
colleges these alumni attended were
men’s schools, because by the end of
the evening almost all the patrons
were men.) The bars were ai! bust-
ling and fun.

Another bar I hit was the Oak Bar
in the Plaza Hotel. It was a very
oldish-type place and rather stodgy,
and I liked it. The restaurant and bar
atop the RCA building were also neat
places to go. Replete with an or
chestraa and woman who sang about
every sixth song, it was a big change
from the Lexington entertainment
scene.

The conclusions I have come to
after my visit to New York are these:

elt has a lot to offer.

eThe people don’t go out of their
ways to be friendly.

*Everything costs a lot.

¢Most anything that can be bought
there can be bought somewhere
within a three hour drive from Lex
ington.

eThere is a plethora of night life.

The sum of these conlusions is that
while I now can appreciate New
York, I am totally honest when I say,
“It’s a great place to visit ... but I
wouldn’t want to live there.”’

find out what was wrong. Estelle (the

real McCoy) patiently explained to
Chris that you make your order at the
grill and then sit down Hey, we
knew tha he said. ‘‘We were just
testing

On the menu was an assortment of
sandwiches. but we decided to test

two of the dinner platters. Jamie
chose the Chicken Filet Platter while
Chris went for the celebrated Chuck

wagon Platter. We also ordered a
bowl of chili each and two Budwei
sers (only the best for us

Well, if there is one thing you can
The Buds
and chili were on our table in no time.
The chili came in a big bowl and
could have been a meal unto itself.
There was lois of meat and lots of
beans, well...more meat and more
beans. We noticed something resem-
bling celery in there. (Whei asked by
an editor if that something resemb!
ing celery might by chance have
been green pepper, Berger replied:
“That was just our uneducated chili
guess. We didn't bring our food
review microscopes.’’) But it was
good and hot and only a buck; so
what do you want for nothing?

say for Estelle’s, it’s fast

Our platters came while we finish-
ed our chili. Jamie’s chicken filet
turned out to be your basic fraternity
chicken patty, garnished with let-
tuce, tomato and mayo. The platter
also came with fries, coleslaw and ic-
ed tea. The chicken burger was not
an actual filet, but was made from

5 p.m,
from the W&L Collections.”’

7p.m.
Auditorium
7:30 p.m
and Brass Ensemble. Lee Chapel.

&p.m.— PLAY: “
Boiler Room Theatre.

8 p.m.

5p.m., -

7:30 p.m, -

5 p.m,

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, December 12
- CHEMISTRY SEMINAR:
W&L Prof. Debora A. Ringe. Room 401,
Howe Hall. (Tea at 4:30 p.m. in Room 402.):
— POLITICS FILM: “The Trial.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
7 p.m. — ROMANCE LANGUAGE FILM: “Story of Adele H.”’ duPont

— CHRISTMAS CANDLELIGHT SERVICE: W&L Chorus

Bleacher Bums.”

Saturday, December 14
2p.m,— Undergraduate Examinations Begin.
— CONCERT: Rockbridge Chamber Orchestra. Lee Chapel.

Friday, December 20
~ Undergraduate Examinations End.

Monday, January 6
ALL CLASSES RESUME.

Tuesday, January 7
Noon-l p.m, — GENERAL-LEE SPEAKING SPORTS LUNCHEON
Vashington Room, Evans Dining Hall.
- BASKETBALL: GENERALS VS. COURTLAND STATE.

Thursday, January 9
— CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Howe 401. Tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.

chicken parts all fused together. Bu
Jamie didn’t mind, because after all
parts is parts

The tries were good, but tipped the
scale on our greaseometer. Although
the colesiaw wasn’t on our entry list
for the Slaw Hall of Fame (in Cleve
land), it was still pretty good. The ic
ed tea was, um, cold and had a very
distinct tea taste

It was Chris’s chuckwagon burger
that caused some serious concern
The big questions was, ‘‘What in the
hell is that?’’'It was a patty similar to
the chicken patty, but not half as ap-
petizing. Jamie took a chance and
guessed that it was something trom
the beef and poultry family, but that
was as far as it got. Finally, Chris

no stranger to dangerous chow

began to eat it, and we are glad to
report that he is still here to write
about it. The chuckwagon burger was
not all that bad, but as our safety tip
for the week, we would strongly sug
gest sticking with the chicken or
cheeseburger platters.

The ‘real test came hours later,
though. We waited and waited, pois-
ed to dial 911, but we are glad to
report that there were no ill gastrono-
mic side effects. So, forget the other
fast food places. Throw on your cow
boy boots and have a heap o’ chili and
beer at Estelle’s. Our platters were
Only $2.25 each, and the pool tables
aren't warped, and the people are
friendly. Definitely one of the best
food deals in town.

“Seven Remarkable Portraits

Directed by Chris Carmouche 86.

 

 

Exam week prime time for prime TV

 

By BILL HANNA
Teievision Critic

 

Well, exams are once again right
around the corner and the library
will soon begin to stay full all hours of
the night. Some will start getting in
strange moods as they begin to
realize they have to fit 12 weeks of
reading into the last few days before
the exam.

The television is usually a popular
device around this time as procrasti-
nation is made an art. Things that
are not normally watched become
more popular as exams draw near. I
happen to have a few suggestions.

For afternoon stalling, ‘‘Gilligan’s
Island’ comes on channel 12 at 2:30.
“The Jetsons”’ follows at 3 and if you
change to channel 6 at about 3:20 you
can catch an episode of “‘The Three
Stooges.”

Staying with channel 6, ‘‘The Flint-
stones”’ is on at 4:05 followed by that
long time favorite ‘‘The Brady Bun-
ch,”’ then “Leave it to Beaver,’’ ‘‘The
Beverly Hillbillys,’’ and “The Andy
Griffith Show.”

At 6:30, ‘Green Acres’’ comes on

- channel 2. Channel 5 at 7 has

“M*A*S*H,” and “Jeopardy’’ is on
channel 10 at 7:30.
This is a surefire way to waste an

NEXUS

122 So. Main

The Style House

Visit Lexington’s finest hairstylists where we use

and other fine products.
Call or walk-in.

afternoon. It requires no effort and,
most importanly, absolutely no
thinking.

Depending on what night it is, this
sort of thing can go on at least until
1:30 when Letterman is over. Mon-
day night, the football game is on; a
sure way to waste a few hours. Tues
day night leads into my review for
the week.

ABC has a good line-up with
“Moonlighting” at 9 and ‘Spencer
For Hire’’ following at 10. I found it to
be a pretty good solid viewing even

ing especially with ‘‘Who’s the
Boss?” preceding at 8.
“Moonlighting” is a lighthearted

drama about two not so-experienced
private investigators trying to make
a living. It usually has a good plot
and Bruce Willis adds a few good
laughs to the show playing the calm
and cool investigator, David Ad
dison.

His partner, Maddie Hayes, is
played by Cybill Shepherd and is not
as adept at detective work, but plays
well opposite David.

Aside from the good script-writing
and quality acting on the show, it has
one aspect which encourages about
half the television audience to tune
in. Cybill Shepherd, just on the
screen doing nothing, isn’t bad

As I was too lazy to get up and

    
 

  

Nucleic A

   

 
 

163-5954

  
 

 

change the channel (or even study) I
stay tuned for “‘Spenser: For Hire.’
This turned out to be better than I ex-
pected

Sure, Robert Urich is the star as
Spenser and is the same character as
he played in “Vegas” a few years
ago. He seems to try to be a little
more sensitive, but this doesn’t work
all that well

Spenser is a private detective who
makes use of the connections he
made when he was a member of the
police force in Boston. He often
makes use of the help offered by
Hawk, played by Avery Brooks, call-
ed ‘‘the biggest muscle in Boston” by
both friends and enemies. Hawk does
not work with Spenser, but is hired as
needed and is a good tough guy

The show is pretty good as there is
usually an interesting struggle be-
tween the good guys and the bad guys
riting and acting are both
acceptable

and the Ww

I only suggest the show to people
who like the type of character Urich
usually plays as it seems Dan Tanna
has moved from Vegas to Boston and
changed his name to Spenser

Now for the highlights

Thursday Bandolero”’ is on
tonight at 8 on channel 12 in this
western starring Jimmy Stewart,
Dean Martin, George Kennedy, and

Raquel Welch. Following this at 10 on

HBO is George C. Scott in ‘“Hard-
core,”
Sunday: Henry Fonda stars in

“The Battle of the Bulge” at 10:35
that morning. A great comedy star-
ring Danny Kaye in “The Court
Jester’’ comes on channel 5 at noon.

“The Gauntlet”’ is also on Sunday as
Clint Eastwood comes to the tube at 9
on ABC,

Monday: The Patriots play the
Dolphins on the week’s edition of

“Monday Night Football’? which
should be a good battle for first place
in the AFC East as the Jets will lose
to the Bears on Saturday.

Now a final note about ‘‘Miami
Vice.”’ The show continues to draw
some big names for guest appear-
ances. Last week Phil Collins was on
and later this month, G. Gordon Lid-
dy will be on the show.

“Vice” is also doing well on the
charts with their sound-track album.
It has sold over 1 million copies in the
four weeks since its release and is
now at the top of the Billboard album
chart.

The show is also doing well on its
own as it has stayed in the top ten
since the beginning of the season, Not
bad for what threatened to be just
another cop show before its premiere
episode last season.

 

 

 

 

 

EAST LEX

 

["
|
oa
|

11 North Open until
Midnight

‘ igarettes REE lias vc cas este $6.89
Natt 4 y 50 l Ong Noelia. Gs ) 0) eee eyes eee $5.53
PG en ee $5.43

 

 

 

 

 

 
