 

 

Dancing

     
     
 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 17

Volunteer avoids
the limelight

Page 3

 

 

Wrestling

W&L takes first
in invitational

 

Page 5

 
  
   

 

Che KRing-tum Ph

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Lows in the 20s on Saturday,
warming to 30s on Monday

 

IAN

@ THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

NGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450 _,

JANUARY 30, 1986

 

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Associated Press
Christa McAuliffe’s family reacts with horror

Shuttle disaster
stuns W&L, VMI

EC secretary leaves schoo

 

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

Executive Committee Secretary
Michael Webb resigned his post by
withdrawing from school Friday and
will return as a ‘‘second-semester
junior” in September, according to
Associate Dean of the College Pame-
la Simpson.

Webb was the first black student to
be elected to the EC in one of the “Big
Three’ positions — president, vice
president or secretary, according to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John.

Webb, a junior, said being secre-
tary became too big a job when com-
bined with his school work.

“I think I overextended myself,”
he said in a telephone interview. “I
just wasn’t getting any sleep or any-
thing.”

“7 just wasn’t functioning the way I
thought I should be functioning.”

In addition to being EC secretary,
Webb participated in the Minority
Student Association and other pro-
jects.

Webb mentioned that he had talked
with Simpson about his busy
schedule. ‘She had warned me ear-
lier in the year that I was overwork-
ed,”’ he said.

He said he is going to ‘learn how to
relax’’ at his home in Jersey City,
N.J., and possibly look for a job.

“I was really disappointed about
leaving — I kind of fell in love with

 

 

 

MICHAEL WEBB

W&L,”’ Webb said.

“There was so much that I really
wanted to do at W&L; that’s probably
why I’m sitting here — at home.”’

Webb said that being a minority
had nothing to do with his reasons for
withdrawal.

EC President John Lewis said
Monday that senior Representative
Pat Hayden would be Webb’s re-
placement, with senior class Vice
President Tony McCann stepping in
for Hayden.

“Mr. Webb had undertaken a great
deal this term and he was physically
and mentally tired,’’ Lewis said. ‘‘So

he has decided to take a term off; he
will return in the fall.”

Lewis said later he had not known
of Webb’s decision until Friday after-
noon. ‘‘I discovered it through a note
left by Michael Webb,” he said. “‘I
was surprised.”’

Lewis said he understood Webb's
action. “It’s his decision — he just
needs some time off,’’ he said, adding
that he realizes the decision was in
Webb’s best interest.

‘That’s all that matters,’’ he said.

Simpson said she talked with Webb
and his father on Thursday to make
sure that Webb considered all the op-
tions and rules concerning withdraw-
al. “I was satisfied that Mike had,”
she said. ‘‘He received all the advice
that we can offer.”’

She said she was surprised by
Webb’s decision. “I was shocked
because everybody looks up to Mike
and depends on him,”’ she said. ‘‘He’s
always so good about ideas and fol-
lowing through on things and he’s so
reliable and dependable that I was
really surprised,’’ Simpson said.

“I’m going to miss him a lot, but
it’s not like he dropped off the face of
the earth. He’ll be back in Septem-
ber,’’ she added.

“IT knew Mike because of the work
with the Minority Student Associa-
tion, and because of his position in
the student government — and also
because he was the sort of person you
really like when you get to know,”’
she said.

 

 

onnade and throughout Lexington.

recently arrived viewers.

tieth times.

coverage.

tions at all’ about heading into space.

impressed by the poem when she heard it.”’

shuttle also sported a VMI decal.

 

Washington and Lee students swarmed around University, fraterni-
ty house and barber shop televisions at lunchtime Tuesday as word of
the explosion aboard the space shuttle Challenger raced down the Col-

Knots of students chatted about what many called the ‘“‘morbid”
nature of the network coverage. Other remarks were of the ‘‘round up
the usual suspects’’ variety: ‘‘sabotage,”’ “‘terrorism’”’ and ‘‘the Rus-
sians’’ all were discussed as possible causes of the inferno.

Many students watched videotape of the replay two or three times,
then became bored and wandered away, leaving behind the more-

The three wide-screen televisions in General Headquarters were
switched to Cable News Network, and conversations abruptly ceased
as the footage of the disaster was shown for the tenth, fifteenth, twen-

The wall-size screen in the University Library’s Northen
Auditorium also displayed the afternoon’s grim, repetitious broadcast

Christa McAuliffee, the 11th-grade teacher who was one of the
craft’s seven crew members, had planned to carry with her a poem by
Journalism Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff. The poem, ‘‘Teacher,” has
been publicly read by President Reagan on more than a half-dozen oc-
casions, including to the finalists for the Teacher-in-Space program.

Mollenhoff talked by telephone with McAuliffe in July shortly after
she’d been selected for the mission, and he said she had ‘‘no reserva-

‘Her personality is such that she’s bubbly and enthusiastic, but
rather clear and precise in her enthusiasm,’’ he recalled. ‘‘She’d been

Virginia Military Institute also had a special interest in the seventh
and final lauch of Challenger: McAuliffe took along the VMI ring of
her husband, 1970 graduate Steven J. McAuliffe. Her locker aboard the

Col. Beverly M. Read, the VMI Alumni Association historian, said
he corresponded with her several times before the launch.

“She was enthusiastic about the disciplined life Steve had led at VMI
and said she also is a very disciplined person,’’ Read recalled.

In a biographical sketch of McAuliffe in the 1970 VMI yearbook, the
Bomb, the last line is: ‘‘His future: Christa.”’

On Tuesday afternoon, VMI sent a telegram of condolence to
McAuliffe, and the institute's flags flew at half staff.

 

 

Tuckered out

Last weekend's Superdance raised $34,038 for the
Muscular Dystrophy Association. This year Superdance
organizers used a wrist band system to regulate the
distribution of beer. In addition, identifications were
rechecked Saturday night. Superdance co-Chairman

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Paul James described the measures as ‘‘very effective.’
He was also pleased with participation. ‘‘This school
came around for Superdance in a way I haven’t seen for a
while,” he said. Kappa Sigma senior Jimmy White won a
new Honda Civic in a raffle Saturday night.

EC questions SAB on freebies for members

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Members of the Student Activities Board will
continue to be allowed to attend all SAB func-
tions free of charge, senior Mike Guerriero,
president of the SAB, said at Monday night’s
Executive Committee meeting.

Guerriero was defending charges raised two
weeks ago by sophomore representative Brad
Root that several SAB members were abusing
the privelege.

“I see no abuses that are flagrant,’’ Guer-

riero said. ‘It’s not a problem right now.”

The controversy arose from an incident
three weeks ago when several SAB members
reportedly walked to the front of a long line in
order to be admitted free to a SAB-sponsored
performance by Speidel, Goodrich and Lille at
the General Headquarters

“It’s not annoying to have people get in free
but it’s annoying to watch them cut in line,”
said junior representative Baltzer LeJeune.

Guerriero said the solution was to make an
announcement that SAB members not cut in
line. He resisted a proposal to designate a
separate door for SAB members.

“My mistake was letting the people in at
SGL who were cutting in line,’’ he said.

Guerriero and the SAB’s business man-
ager submitted the SAB’s budget for fall term
and records showed that the organization
stayed $7,883 under their projected budget.

According to Guerriero, Wednesday night
concerts at the GHQ run on a “‘zero gain, zero
loss’’ theory. In that sense, Guerriero main-
tained that the cover charge the SAB could
have received from every member it admitted
free was not counted as a loss.

“Every SAB member who gets in free is paid
for by the other people,’’ said Guerriero.

The number of SAB members who attend
each GHQ show is usually less than 20, accord-
ing to Guerriero.

‘“‘We’re talking about small numbers,’’ he
said.

EC Secretary Pat Hayden said, ‘‘I find it ex-
traordinary that other people pay for the enter-
tainment of SAB members. Many other people
work around campus and don’t get into any-
thing free.”’

“From you not being on the SAB, Pat, I have
a lot of trouble justifying your statement,”’
Guerriero said.

According to Guerriero, the average SAB

member works about three hours for each ma-
jor student activities pavilion concert and
about two and a half hours each time he works
at a GHQ concert. An SAB member's duties in-
clude loading bands in and out of the concert,
selling beer and beer tickets, and working at
the door. In addition, SAB members handle the
catering and publicity for the shows.

For the two weeks immediately following
Washington Holiday, Guerriero said every
SAB member is required to work a minimum
of five of the seven days in the week of prepar-
ation for Fancy Dress. This usually involves
two or three hours of work a day, Guerriero
said.

Guerriero admitted, however, that outside
help is usually enlisted to reload band equip-
ment after some SAB shows.

‘By the time 3 a.m. rolls around, we've ex-
hausted our supply of SAB members,” he said

According to Guerriero, an effort has been
made this year to monitor the amount of work
done by SAB members.

‘This year has seen a change in the SAB,”
he said. ‘‘We’re making an effort to get rid of
people who don’t work.”

Hayden asked Guerriero to inform the EC,
by name or number, of any members who are
removed.

“IT can say that between zero and five
members will be kicked off in the next two
weeks,”’ said Guerriero.

Sophomore SAB member Ty McMains said
he worked about one-and-a-half hours for
December's R.E.M. show and has yet to work
at the GHQ for a Wednesday show.

“It’s not that much work,” he said. ‘‘The
benefits far out-weigh the amount of work. It’s
definitely not strenuous.”’

Sophomore SAB member Jon Solomon said
that if one added up the amount of money an
SAB members saves by not paying for admis
sion, the ‘pay for this job would seem pretty
good.” He figured he saves $50 a year on GHQ
shows, around $32 for the larger pavilion
shows, and at least $30 for Fancy Dress. That
comes to $112 a year.

“T haven’t been called to work a Wednesday
night once,’’ he said

Junior SAB member Jeff Mandak said he
felt the work/privelege ratio is ‘‘pretty fair

He said that much of the time an SAB mem-
ber has to work is when one would rather be do
ing something else. Mandak said he worked
the entire R.E.M. show

“Like at Fancy Dress,” he said. ‘‘You might
need to pick up your date at the airport but you
might also have to put up posters.”’

Simpson said Webb’s withdrawal
will have some effect on his date of
graduation because he will be a term
behind his classmates.

“I’m certain it'll have some im-
pact,”’ Simpson said. “He’s going to
be out-of-phase in some manner.”’

Associate Dean of Students for
Minority Affairs Anece F. McCloud
said she was sorry to see Webb leave
but she is ‘‘happy that it’s only tem-
porary.”

Lewis Monday explained the suc-
cession that left Hayden in Webb’s
former position and McCann in
Hayden’s. According to the Student
Body Constitution, the senior repre-
sentative who received the most
votes in the last general election
becomes secretary — in this case
senior Michael Black, who declined
the position. Hayden, then, stepped
into Webb’s position.

According to Lewis, the empty sen-
ior representative position was first
offered to senior class President and
Student Control Committee Chair-
man Townes Pressler, who turned it
down.

“It was for the good of the SCC that
Townes stayed,’’ Lewis said.

Senior Vice President Tony Mc-
Cann was then, in Lewis’ words, ‘‘the
logical choice”’ to fill Hayden’s posi-
tion.

The EC suggested to Pressler that
he choose someone to take McCann’s
place and give that name to the EC at
next Monday’s meeting.

Entrepreneurs

to convene
this weekend

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

 

Want to start your own business?

A great way to find out how would
be to attend this Saturday’s con-
ference on entrepreneurship, which
will be hosted by the Washington and
Lee chapter of the Association of Col-
legiate Entrepreneurs, and is open
free of charge to all W&L students.

Junior Marquis Smith says the
group tries to give students a ‘‘head
start on preparing for the job market
while in college.”

ACE, which began in 1983 with
seven chapters nationwide, has
“grown tremendously,’ Smith said,
and at present has 250 chapters in the
United States and even more abroad.

W&L’s chapter has undergone sim-
ilar growth. Beginning with three
students last spring, the group now
boasts 30 members.

Smith described the group’s efforts
thus far as having ‘‘decent success,”’
but he hopes recruitment will pick up
next year.

One-third of all new businesses are
started by entrepreneurs under the
age of 30, according to the ACE, and
it gives the young businessmen a
chance to get together and share
ideas as they begin their own busi-
ness adventures.

W&L’s chapter has some ambitious
goals for its first year on campus.
The group hopes to bring a series of
speakers to W&L to discuss topics
relating to successful entrepreneur-
ship; to set up a mentor program in
which students can be paired with
businessmen to get valuable exper-
ience; and to send several represen-
tatives to ACE’s national conference
in Los Angeles in February.

Saturday’s conference will have
chapter members from Georgetown
University, the University of Virgin-
ia, James Madison University,
George Washington University and
Tidewater Community College.

The purpose of Saturday’s con-
ference is “to get area schools in
Virginia to come to W&L to con-
solidate before the national con-
ference,’’ Smith said

Highlights of the day-long con-
ference will include several speakers
discussing such topics as ‘‘Charac-
teristics of the Successful Sales-
man,” and a number of films related
to a variety of business topics

One of the speakers will be jour
nalism Professor Ronald Mac
Donald. Registration is at 11 a.m
Saturday in the Commerce School

 
 

 

OPINION |
Clarification

The smooth transition of power in the Executive Commit-
tee after the resignation of the student body secretary last
week speaks well of the institution and its members. While
wewegret ito se Mike Webbiléaving for the remainder of this
yeatjgwe/ne, glad tovseevim@alible students — Pat Hayden,
former @puipay epoesemtAtive, and Tony McCann, a former
senior class vice president — taking new seats on the EC.

But although the transition may appear to be seamless and
orderly, some rough edges need to be smoothed before
another similar situation arises.

Foremost, the Student Body Constitution remains unclear
as to the proper line of authority to be followed in such
events. Article III of the Constitution, titled ‘“‘Duties of Of-
ficers,’’ notes that the ‘“‘Senior Representative who received
the most votes during the general election’’ shall become
secretary should the seat be vacated.

Fine. That works. But who should succeed the senior repre-
sentative? That particular article doesn’t say. You have to
refer to Article V, Section I, to find out.

There, you can see that the EC receives instructions on how
to fill seats emptied during the six-week spring term. But
that is not the same as a student leaving at the end of Jan-
uary. Regardless, Article V says that the class president
replaces a class representative who leaves. It goes on to say
that ‘‘in the event the president of the class also leaves [for
the spring term], the vice president shall fill the member’s
chair for the remainder of the term.”

But therein lies the problem: The clause does not address
the possibility that the president of the senior class may
refuse to fill the vacant EC seat, as Townes Pressler did last
week. And this time, there were three vice presidents, as is
the custom with the senior class — one for each of the ‘‘col-
leges.’’ Which vice president should get the tap for the EC
seat in that situation?

We would recommend several changes to the Constitution
to remedy similar situations in the future.

First, Article III, Section D, should make clearer reference
to the order of succession should the secretary’s seat be
made vacant. Perhaps even a reference to the Article V
details on succession would be helpful.

Secondly, Article V ought to clarify the order of succession
in a situation in which more than one vice president might ex-
ist. If the EC passes the current proposal to change the elec-
tion of the three senior vice presidents from election by the
college to election at large, the student who has received the
greatest number of votes obviously should receive prefer-
ence in succession.

Finally, we hope that the syntax changes might clarify the
right of a senior EC representative or the senior (or junior or
sophomore or freshman) class president to refuse whatever
post may be offered in the case of a vacancy. The current
wording, while not explicit on this point, might be enhanced
with careful editing.

Why we did it

It’s often tempting, but seldom productive, to write col-
umns explaining why the newspaper has a certain policy or
made a given decision in a specific situation. Such exercises
bespeak a self-consciousness and self-centeredness that are
unhealthy for a newspaper. For that reason, I’ve always
tried to just do my job and then shut up about it. Although
generally sound, that approach occasionally can lead to some
pretty serious misunderstandings, one of which came to a
head last week.

The Phi printed an advertisement, signed by three stu-
dents, that commented on another student. Although the
meaning of the message wasn’t clear from the ad itself, if
you’ve been reading the paper lately, it took all of about two
seconds to figure it out. Since Thursday afternoon, a couple of
dozen people have come up to me and asked, with varying de-
grees of diplomacy, ‘‘Why the---do you print that---?”’

The Phi is in close to a monopoly position as far as being an
outlet for student opinion. About the only other choices are
the Executive Committee minutes, which not many people
see, and tacking something up on the Colonnade, which be-
tween wind and idle hands isn’t very effective either. So that
gives The Phi an extraordinary responsibility: It must pro-
vide a forum for the spectrum of student views — whether we
agree or not — as long as they aren’t libelous or in bad taste.

Editors who arbitrarily decide what opinions the student
body should have access to are at least arrogant and at worse
dangerous. We’re journalists, not censors. You don’t go into
this business for money or popularity, but instead to promote
certain values. One of those is freedom of expression and con-
sequently we try to make our columns available to all respon-
sible points of view.

We still aren’t wild about that advertisement, and have a
certain amount of sympathy for the individual it addressed.
But through news judgments and editorials, we get plenty of
chances to express our views. When it comes to opinion col-
umns, letters and ads, it’s someone else’s turn.

 

-MA
* *
he Ring-tum Phi
NEWS STAFF
RTE UE 6 ois ci cce iid aeees el iieree ie
rot ee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear

I NE ie kiisndi iis issn Se is Reade Williams
PRR ye er Mike Stachura
News Editor ..... pevaeiy cp hee cs eee ee Jim Strader
Pee PEE chris AGO Steve Sadler
Ce BE iii iri i a aaa Matt Horridge
rE I) 5 bias ies ie ee Marshall Boswell
Pe seo ci coae eh ae Jason Lisi
De eT I ak A sie David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
re es aa ie i i Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor................0ccccceeeeeeeeeeees ss Marie Kothman
CORI 8 oie ote tie e Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
WOGMNONG MAMAN oo cic c cs ccs ec ce sereesccctocsasbadevesenscdscgvounes Jeff Kimbell
Advertising MARAGOR 0.65 cecsceeccececcecccscteneoeectesessevess Hank Greenberg
Advertising Salesmen. .........:0sccerccsserecesnveeeees John Feyrer. Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley
Circulation Manager ......cccscccccccccsecesccescceencs aveeiveteuie Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

 

OO A AO eee ME en

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

 

(5@ VASH AMONG
THE RUINS.)

 

     
   

 

AND So | TOLD Hit
colts en aay Bice
WAS FROZEN... AND HE
SAID Te WEAR A HAT
PROM Now onl

 

 

Dedication: Pursuing ‘the dream’

 

MY VIEW

By John Pensec

 

In his broadcast after Tuesday’s
shuttle explosion, Peter Jennings
declared that we comfort each other
in our tragedy. Today, we mourn as a
nation.

While it is doubtful that we will
forget the incident, let us hope that
years from now, when we look back
on this day, we remember not only
the horrible explosion but also the
motivations of the seven astronauts.

The seven were on their way to ex-
plore space, something many dream
of doing, but few grow up to do. They
gave their lives in pursuit of a dream
they were determined to make a
reality

In that there is a lesson to be learn-
ed. Too often, people are willing to
bow to the pressures of day to day liv-
ing and give up their hopes and aspir-
ations. But to the seven, the dream of
going into space was their life.

And while there is no way of saying
for sure, we hope they never knew
what happened and that they died
happy.

Space is all that is left to be ex-
plored. We don’t know what is out
there, but it is man’s natural urge to
find out that keeps him going. Some-
day, the questions we have will be
answered. To achieve this, however,
we must depend on those who are
willing to sacrifice many of the lux-
uries of life. They will have to
volunteer their time, and maybe
even their lives, to discover the
unknown.

Those who dedicate their lives to
pursue a dream are often isolated

from their peers. They are different.
They don’t want to conform to the
norms of society, but to change it in
some way. And while at times these
dreamers may be ridiculed, it must
not be forgotten that it is because of
them that so much has been achiev-
ed.

What would air travel be like today
had Charles Lindbergh never flown
across the Atlantic Ocean? Or what
would we be today had not a few men
dreamed of being independent of
England? They dreamed and suf-
fered so that we might reap the
rewards.

We often hear that life is short.
How many times though, do we let
those words be forgotten? If we
dedicate our lives to pursuing our
dreams, not only will we be better for
it, but the community around us will
be rewarded.

The members of the space pro-

gram have given us hope. The suc-
cess of previous missions has instill-
ed in us the knowledge that we have
the capability of exploring unknown
worlds.

Not long ago, people scoffed at the
idea of putting a man on the moon,
and yet in 1969, we did just that. The
surface of Mars has even felt our
presence. None of this could have
been done if it weren’t for the
sacrifice of a few for many.

President Reagan, in his address to
the nation, said that the space pro-
gram would continue, that there will
be more volunteers and more teach-
ers in space. This is the only course of
action we can take. We have ac-
complished so much, but there is so
much yet to be done.

For those who lost their lives, and
for their families, all that we, as a
grateful nation, can say is thank you.

Insensitivity causing unnecessary change?

 

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

The chocolate shake was so thick I
would have gotten a hernia if I had
tried to drink it with a straw. But I
needed a thick one — a double in a
dirty glass — to drown myself in my
sorrows.

“Hey pardner, what’s the mat-
ter?’’ asked a friend as he walked up
to my barstool.

“Just trying to numb my senses,”’ I
said.

“‘Numbin’ your senses? What are
you doing a thing like that for?”’

“Well, ever since this school went
coed, it seems like there’s been a real
lack of sensitivity on the campus
toward everybody except for the
women here. And the proposed
Women’s Forum is just about the last
straw.”

“What’s wrong with a women’s
forum?” asked my friend.

“Nothing,” I replied. ‘What's
wrong with a men’s forum? Or better

 

To the editors:

yet, a students’ forum?”’

“Nothing.”’

“Exactly,’’ I said. ‘Listen to some
of the topics that The Phi reported
will be included in this forum, and
tell me why men don’t have similar
needs. We’ve got housing and loung-
ing, health and counseling, leader-
ship, social, academic advising and
career issues, spiritual growth and
development, and community ser-
vice.”’

“T’m not arguing against coeduca-
tion,” I said. “I’ve been in favor of it
for a long time. And that’s important,
because if someone like me, a sup-
porter of coeducation, feels this way,
think about how anti-coed people
must feel.

“And the fires are being fueled. A
female freshman is quoted in The Phi
as saying that sororities will be able
to find locations ‘when the fraterni-
ties go down.’ That’s insensitive. As-
sociate Dean of Students Anne C.P.
Schroer says that W&L women tend
to be much more independent than
those at area women’s colleges. The
Phi reported that this means they
have more confidence to express

their values than students who have
been less successful academically
and socially.

‘We read in the Milwaukee Jour-
nal that ‘The bottom portion of our
classes, the bottom third or fourth,
was getting very soft,’ a quote at-
tributed to Frank Parsons, an assis-
tant to President Wilson. ‘We were
having to dig deeper and deeper into
the barrel to get a class,’ Parsons
said.

“If the university did not want the
aforementioned students, it shouldn’t
have accepted them. Shouldn’t our
emphasis, no matter what type of
students enroll, be to produce better
men and women?

“If we look at coed as an academic
panacea, then we will be no better a
university because we will be happy
with mediocrity rather than unlock-
ing students’ potential. If we think of
coed as an admissions panacea, then
we will still lack the diversity this
school should be able to attract.

“Don’t you think you're being a bit
rough on your own school?” asked

LETTERS

cers had a better view of the name bands which

Participant chastises absent MDA dancers

months, I wish to pass on this note of hope.

my friend. ‘‘All they’re doing is look-
ing out for the needs of the women.”
“Sure, that’s no problem. But
you’d think that as high up on a
pedestal as these women are being
placed — whether they want to be put
up there or not — that they wouldn’t
have any problems. Actually, they’re
just like the other 11/12ths of the
undergraduate students.”’

“T never have taken a psychology
course, but it seems pretty obvious
that men — and women — naturally
resist change. So if there are things
that really don’t need to be changed
immediately, why don’t we leave
them alone and ease through the
transition?

“Yes, the solution is very simple,”
I told my friend. ‘We must listen to
all the students’ complaints and try
to find solutions that will benefit all
the students. We must be sensitive to
the needs and charateristics of
everyone on and off this campus.

“Then I wouldn’t have to spend so
much time and money on wooden
barstools and chocolate shakes.”’

After participating in last weekend’s Muscular
Dystrophy Association Superdance, I have sev-
eral observations and opinions to express con-
cerning the behavior of many people involved.

The Superdance is billed as a ‘30-hour dance
marathon.” All of the sponsors who pledged a
certain donation per hour were billed as though
each dancer had completed all 30 of those hours.
Unfortunately, the vast majority of the register-
ed dancers did not participate for the duration of
the dance, but in fact attended only for a few
hours on Friday and Saturday nights. It seems
unfair to bill sponsors for 30 hours worth of danc-
ing when perhaps only six hours were completed.
Granted, many of the dancers missed only a few
hours early Saturday morning, but still, their
sponsors should not have had to pay for the en-
tire time. Perhaps, in Washington and Lee’s
quest for their annual record-breaking total,
honest participation takes a back seat to fraudu-
lent gain of pledged monies.

This problem leads me to wonder why these
dancers commit themselves to 30 hours of danc-
ing if they do not intend to carry through on their
promise? I realize that several fraternities re-
quire their pledges to dance, which is all well and
good, but why did many people who were not re-
quired to register to dance and then renege on
their commitment?

An answer to these questions is apparent in the
pattern of attendance at the dance. More dan-
cers were present at night, when registered dan-

 

 

were playing and free beer was available. Per-
haps these dancers were more concerned with
securing a good viewing position and free alcohol
than with raising money for MDA; this is the
conclusion that I reach. When the Steering Com-
mittee analyses the impact which beer has on the
Superdance, I hope they include not only the
receipts from beer sales, but also the amount of
money raised by those dancers who participated
only for the sake of receiving free drinks.

Despite these problems and complaints, I am
glad to have participated in this year’s Super-
dance. I commend Chairmen Sandy Whann and
Paul James for their organization and leader-
ship, and all of the committees who helped plan
this event. I also salute Cotton Puryear, Mike
Stachura, and the other staff members of WLUR
who ran the Rock-a-Thon. Most of all, I congratu-
late the other dancers who completed all 30 hours
and fulfilled their sponsors’ expectations.

Margaret Pimblett
Class of '89

Example of honor given

To the editors:

Against all the death knells of the Honor
System which have been sounded in recent

wondering where all my shirts were, since I
hardly had any laundry to be done. Then I
remembered — I hadn’t brought them home last
time I had done laundry. Furious with myself
and in a pessimistic state of mind, I walked to the
Graham-Lees laundry. And against all odds
predicted on the pages of The Phi, there were my
shirts, exactly where I had left them one week
earlier, Available to anyone who passed through,
$100.00 worth of clothing were untouched after
one week.

Sunday night I was looking in my closet,

I do not say that the Honor System is perfect.
No doubt there are liars, cheaters and thieves in
our midst, yet after my experience, I am more
inclined than ever to think that such people are
the exception and not the rule here at W&L. I
don’t advise anyone’s leaving their laundry or
calculator lying about, and I certainly hope that I
don’t forget my laundry again, but isn’t it nice to
know that such things can be done? It is true that
the Honor System is by no means perfect, but it
is just as true that it is far from being dead.

Christopher R. Carter
Class of ’87

 

 

 

"a -

“eo dn ig”

¢ ~ 8 @ >? Pf © Fy 2a Hh OM SP...€<7

*

;
ot

¥

=

—
~

B&B: [Ree e erences ees s BEN eee < 1

“+ wa.
<<} 7? ¥

x
t
»

hi

<< © > 4

@®se¢ceereseeéeedéeée €&€66e eR FE SEB
-—
‘NEWS
Trible mixes

politics and
religion well

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

‘Roll tape’?
Not so fast

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

 

 

 

A knot of students huddled around a television set in the
University Center on Tuesday afternoon, silently watch-
ing a tape showing the reaction of the family members of
the teacher aboard the space shuttle when they discover
ed she’d just been blown up.

The footage began, some static followed, and then the
screen went to black before ABC anchorman Pete Jen-
nings reappeared. ‘‘We’ve lost that tape,”’ he noted some-
what sheepishly, ‘‘and I must confess it’s not such a bad
thing to have lost it.”

Jennings is not the only person concerned about possi-
ble excesses in television coverage of the space shuttle
Challenger disaster. So is Religion Professor Louis W.
Hodges, director of Washington and Lee’s Society and the
Professions ethics program.

He says that in their crisis coverage, the networks
behave in predictable but not always desirable ways, and
that this week’s marathon coverage of the horror above
Cape Canaveral reflected both the strengths and the
flaws of the form.

Hodges, who teaches a course in the ethics of jour-
nalism, deplored the repeated showing of the isolated-
camera view of the teacher’s family during the explosion
(see photo, page 1), calling the broadcasts ‘‘an unwar-

“For over 200 years the leaders of our nation have join-
ed in prayer and our national life has been greatly enrich-
ed,” U.S. Sen. Paul S. Trible, R-Va., told an audience of
about 200 in Lejeune Hall at Virginia Military Institute
Saturday morning. Although delayed by snow, Trible, a
1971 graduate of the Washington and Lee Law School, de-
livered the keynote address at the prayer breakfast for
VMI’s fourth annual Religious Encounter Weekend.

Trible spoke on the importance of religious faith and
prayer in his own life and the lives of other national
leaders.

He said that despite having realized his life’s ambition
by age 29 — election to Congress, and getting married
and having a daughter — he had found something miss-
ing in his life. ‘‘And that something missing was an in-
tense, personal relationship with the risen Lord,” Trible
explained.

Acknowledging that the audience might find it hard to
believe, he said, “My own faith has deepened and inten-
sified since I’ve gone to Congress.”’

Trible is one of approximately 40 senators actively in-
volved in the Senate Prayer Breakfast held on Wednes-
day mornings. Describing it as ‘a marvelous experience

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Fontanne Bostic (left) with Jack Benjamin (center) and Randy Ellis

Eight-year MDA volunteer
is force behind Superdance

 

shared by members of the Congress for over 40 years,” By STEVE SADLER — behind the Superdance. She gives direction to the com- _anted invasion of their privacy.”
he said that about 20 senators attend each breakfast. Staff Reporter mittee,’ co-chairman Sandy Whann said. “People who are in the initial stages of grief,’’ he ex-

At the conclusion of each breakfast, ‘‘We stand and we
hold hands and we ask God for His blessings and His di-
rection in our lives,” he said.

“It wouldn’t happen unless she was there. With eight

plained, ‘‘ought to be able to do that privately even
years of experience, Fontanne knows more about the

though they are in a public place, without the shock and

 

 

“‘By coming together in the name of the Lord, by focus-
ing on His life and His message, we find that there is a
unity in spite of our diversity.”’

Trible cited his relationship with Rep. Don Bonker, D-
Wash.., as a specific example of this. Although Trible is a
conservative Republican and Bonker is a liberal Demo-
crat, they have eaten breakfast and prayed together once
a week with two other members of Congress for the past
five years.

“‘We’ve come to know and love each other in spite of

our differences. And there is little we would not do for one

another,”’ Trible said.

Similar groups exist in the parliaments of nations in
Western Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, and the
Far East, according to Trible.

Officially, Fontanne S. Bostic is the business manager
of the University Print Shop.

To the Muscular Dystrophy Association Superdance,
though, she is much more. In the words of steering com-
mittee member Jack Benjamin, ‘‘She is the committee.”

Despite that hearty commendation, though, Bostic’s
name is not among the dozens of people listed in the
acknowledgements in the Superdance program.

When Benjamin included Bostic’s name in the acknow-
ledgements, she objected, saying that she was on the
committee and didn’t need further thanks.

“T don’t represent Washington and Lee in the Super-
dance,’’ Bostic said. ‘I do it for Fontanne Bostic. I am
very happy to maintain a low profile.”’

“Fontanne is without a doubt the major motivation

 

NEWS BRIEFS
Hearing rescheduled for March

8 a reports. 4 A he oe Be Bee TY,

A preliminary hearing for the freshman charged with
the rape of a former Hollins College student has been
tentatively rescheduled for March 7, according to the
Commonwealth’s Attorney’s office in Lexington.

The hearing for Burgess A. “Tommy” Thomasson,
originally set for Jan. 21, was postponed because the

. Lexington police investigation and certain laboratory
tests were incomplete, officials said.

Angela T. Morrison, victim-witness coordinator in the
Commonwealth’s Attorney’s office, said one of Thomas-
son’s attorneys, Eric. L. Sisler of Lexington, proposed
the new date and is clearing it with the court before the
hearing is officially scheduled.

-Jim Strader

Judaic lecture series begins

Rabbi David Saperstein, co-director and counsel of
the Religious Action Center, will inaugurate a new lec-
ture series on Judaic studies tonight at 7:30 in room 221

of the Commerce School.

' . The lecture, titled “Economic Justice: A Jewish Per-
spective,”’ is sponsored by the Weinstein Endowment
for Judaic Studies and the religion department and is
free and open to the public.

Professor to speak on humor

Humor is a serious business to University of Tennes-
see psychology Professor Howard R. Pollio, who will be
lecturing today and tomorrow.

At 4 p.m., Pollio speaks on the topic of “Taking
Humor Seriously.”’

‘Humor is really important,’’ Pollio said this week.
“Psychologists haven't taken it seriously enough. I’m

é

studying what it {humor } means and why people are. |.

| }at next year’s

funny. ’ ;

Examples he will use in his speech will be “humor in
other cultures and antic ceremonies such as the Mardi
Gras or carnivals in general,”’ he said.

Another topic important to Pollio is the subject of
grades. He said, ‘I don’t like them. I’m not sure they’re
very helpful. Grades are really relativistic and they’re
treated like absolute.”’

Pollio probably wouldn’t find much disagreement
with that among students, but on Friday he will be try-
ing to convince faculty members when he speaks on the
topic ‘‘Grades: A Tiger Looks At His Stripes.’’

-Daniel Bunch

Blood drive set for Tuesday

The Rockbridge area Red Cross Bloodmobile will be
in Warner Center on Tuesday for another blood drive
sponsored by Chi Psi social fraternity.

“There is a serious deficit in the blood bank this year
as a result of the ’85 flood and illnesses that kept people
away from area blood drives,” said senior Jake
Squiers, who is organizing the drive for Chi Psi.

The hours of the drive will be 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Food
and refreshments will be served to the donors.

New Ariel editors chosen

Junior Sean Butler and first-year-law student Murray
Stanton on Monday were appointed co-editors of the
Ariel, the Washington and Lee literary magazine.

Butler is from Williamsburg and Stanton is from
Rochester, N.Y. They also become members of the Uni-
versity Publications Board. Their terms run through
the end of the academic year. Ten students applied for
the position.

 

 

event than anyone on campus,” Benjamin said.

Randy Ellis, co-Chairman of Student Involvement, ex-
plained, ‘It would be really hard to find someone as
dedicated as Fontanne. She is the brains behind the
operation.”

“‘T never think of it as putting in time,’’ Bostic said. ‘‘I
like working with the guys on the committee and the sat-
isfaction of knowing that I’m helping people in need.”

Steering Committee co-Chairman Paul James agrees
with the other committe members.

“*Fontanne is the heart and soul of the Superdance,”’ he
said.

The committee members’ admiration of Bostic seems
justified.

“T don’t have a whole lot of money to give to charity,
but I do have time,”’ Bostic said.

horror of it registering on their faces.”’

Hodges also found the constant replaying of the explo-
sion tape unnesseary, noting that ‘‘the networks tend to
overdo it’ when they abandon their regular program-
ming and are faced with hours of time to fill.

He said television news organizations air pictures such
as the parents and the blowup over and over again partly
because “as a matter of actual fact, they don’t have
much other tape to show.”’

Despite his reservations, Hodges is no network-basher.
He commended them, for example, for scrapping their
commercials during the initial hours of shuttle coverage

“I’m fully sympathetic to the size and the magnitude of
the problems they have,’’ he cautioned. ‘Since I don’t
know what to recommend for solutions to their problems,
I can’t be too critical of the way they doit.”

 

TALKBACK

Would
you dance

Superdance
if beer were
not served?

 

Worth,
Interviews by

SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

Casey Krivor, sophomore, Sun
Valley, Idaho: ‘‘Yeah, I'd do it. I
like it more as a pledge duty.”

  

Leeann Flood, freshman, Ft.
Texas:

Because I was on a committee this
year, I know how everyone’s get-
ting so scared about not coming
next year because there won’t be
beer. But I think the principle is
more than just having fun.”’

Parkhill Mays, junior, Lake-
land, Fla.: “I didn’t participate
this year. I contribute money, but
I don’t dance in things like that.
Lack of interest, I reckon.”’

 

 

at

 

 

Jay Gorlowski, sophomore, St.
Mary’s, Pa.: “One, I didn’t par-
ticipate in the Superdance be-
cause I don’t dance. It wouldn’t
matter to me if it were dry or not.
I normally park cars or work se-
curity.”

“Oh, yeah.

 

Steve Sklenar, freshman, Pasa-
dena, Md.: “‘I’d be willing to par-
ticipate because of the cause, but I
think it would hurt the atmos-
phere of the event.”’

 

 

  

17 S. Main St.

&
d
e with this coupon

   

(763) 463-2323
ide Ae a ae ale ee A A OME NE Re SO Ea es

15% off all Valentine
Merchandise (except candy)

 

107 NORTH MAIN STREET

 

FOR ALL YOUR PRINTING NEEDS

ualite Quick Print, Ink.

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

TOM RAISBECK, PROPRIETOR

Copies 6°

 

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le

43-3088.

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

 

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Shopping Mall

Thank you Frank Stinson

Featuring Homemade Soups

DAILY

Homemade Tuna, Chicken & Egg Salad Too!

Please Call 463-2595

for your TOGO ORDER

 

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested
in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One
must have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College
students, teachers, and coaches should apply CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17

miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., isan ACA accredited camp member, specializ-
ing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added
emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are
extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William
Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710
(803-831-2121).

 

-
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

 

Food sales increase 22% in GHQ

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Food Services Director Gerald Darrell says the
General Headquarters tavern is showing a mark-
ed improvement in sales this year.

With the increase of Virginia’s drinking age
to 21, Darrell had been worried that it might mean
the end of the GHQ, which primarily was a beer
tavern for W&L students.

But the GHQ expanded its dinner menu and
began accepting dining hall point cards in Octo-
ber. Through Nov. 30, the tavern had $17,400 in
sales, up from $14,200 through the same date in
1984, according to Darrell. This is a 22 percent in-
crease in food sales.

There has also been an increase in the sale of
point cards, according to Darrell. He said that for
the first term of this year, 704 point cards were
sold, compared with 525 during the same time the
year before.

The popularity of the tavern is distributed
among contract patrons and point-card holders,
Darrell said. About 7,000 contract meals have
been served in the GHQ thus far, and $13,000 has
been spent in ‘‘points.”’

Darrell said that not only are more people
spending money in the tavern, but ‘“‘people are
spending more money.”’ That, he says, is attribut-
able to the fact that people like what is being serv-
ed.

IFC wants
longer Rush

“The students have made it clear that they like
the tavern,” Darrell said.

GHQ Manager Bill Torrence has been keeping
an informal chart of how many dinners are sold in
the tavern each night. He said there has been a
steadily increasing number of people eating in the
GHQ since it started its full dinner menu.

There has been some criticism this year about
the tavern’s slow service.

“We're struggling with that right now,” Darrell
said of the complaint.

Darrell said the shortage of space in the kitchen
and the lack of a large cooking oven prevent the
staff from getting food to its patrons faster.

The fact that waiters sometimes get blamed for
the delays bothers Darrell. He said the workers in
the GHQ do the best they can with the space con-
straints.

In the original plans of the tavern, there was no
kitchen, according to Darrell. “It was a broom
closet. You can’t work in that tiny space.

“We've got to do some renovating,’’ he said.
Ideally, he would like to ‘‘double the size of the kit-
chen.”

Darrell said that next month he is going to Uni-
versity Treasurer E. Stewart Epley with plans for
improving the tavern. He said he would like to eli-
minate the bar and bring the kitchen out to where
the divider between the bar and the restaurant is
located.

Because fewer students will be able to drink in
the future, Darrell said, the large bar would be

replaced by a ‘“‘sub-bar”’ with a single tap. Darrell
Said the tavern would continue to stock bottled
beer.

He also would like to add an institutional-sized
oven to the kitchen. Right now, most of the food is
prepared on a grill, a hot plate and in frying vats.
Torrence said that with a large oven, more items
could be added to the tavern’s menu.

Ovens and renovations, of course, require
money. Darrell said the oven he would like to pur-
chase costs around $5,000. He would not speculate
on how much money will be required for the im-
provements but defended the expenditure by say-
ing that he feels the GHQ would eventually be able
toreimburse the University.

Darrell said similar plans have been proposed in
the past but the administration was hesitant to ap-
propriate funds for the then-faltering establish-
ment.

This year, Darrell predicts, the results will be
different. He hopes the figures up to Nov. 30 will
convince the administration that the investment is
worthwhile.

Darrell said that sometime in the future, the
game room may be eliminated to make room for
more seating. He emphasized, however, that no
more seating can be accommodated without en-
larging the cooking facilities.

Darrell said that he is quite pleased with the
GHQ’s performance this year but thinks the im-
provements could make it even better.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

The Interfraternity Council has
recommended to the Student Affairs
Committee that fraternity Rush be
extended from two to three weeks
and that it not be deferred until
winter term, according to IFC Presi-
dent Jamie Hayne.

The final decision on what form
Rush will take next year is up to the
SAC, which plans to conduct its own
study of a deferred Rush and will
make its decision near the end of this
term.

The study by the SAC will consist of
a survey next week of all W&L stu-
dents to determine their opinions
about Rush, and will include contact-
ing schools similar in size and form
to W&L in order to learn from their
experiences with different kinds of
Rush, according to Associate Dean of
Students Dan N. Murphy, a member
of the SAC.

   
     
     
  
    
  
    

  

  

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Raymond Shonholtz will present
a lecture on Thursday Feb. 6 at
4:15 p.m. in the Law School Moot
Courtroom, on the availability
and value of mediation on the
community level. The lecture is
being sponsored by _ the
Washington and Lee Tucker Law
Forum.

“Judgment At Nuremburg”’ will
be shown Wednesday and Thurs-
day Jan. 29 and 30 in Room 327 of
the Commerce School at 7 p.m.
The film is part of the Politics
Filmfest.

“The Overcoat’’ will be shown
Friday, Feb. 7 in Room 327 of the
Commerce School. The film is
part of the Russian Film Series
and is in Russian with English
subtitles.

Alan Alexander, lecturer in
politics at Britain’s University of
Reading, will speak on “Crises in
Cabinet Government”’ at 4 p.m. in
221 Commerce School, and on
“Change in British Parties” at
7:30 p.m. in 327 Commerce School
— both on Tuesday, Feb. 4. He has

‘held numerous posts in Britain’s

national and local government
and has lectured on the British
scene in several countries. He has
authored or co-authored four
books and scores of articles in
both scholarly journals and the
press.

AUX ETUDIANTS DE FRAN-
CAIS: VENEZ TOUS AU GHQ
POUR UNE HEURE D’APERI-
TIF. MERCREDI DE 4H. A5H.

Emory Edwards, W&L Class of
1984, will be speaking at the Even-
song service, Sunday Feb. 2 at 5
p.m. at R.E. Lee Memorial Chur-
ch.

Senior picture orders are now in
and can be picked up in the
Calyx office during regular office
hours of 10-12 a.m. M.W.F. and 3-5
p.m. Mon. - Fri. Seniors. still
wishing to order prints from their
proofs should stop by the office
during these hours. All orders
must be prepaid.

 

HELP WANTED

 

 

 

Typists — $500 weekly at home.
Write: P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207.

 

 

x

cordially invites
Seniors
to the Alumni Hall
on Wednesday, February 5th
at 7:00 PM.

 

Meet our executives and enjoy refreshments.

Tell us about your career goals and hear about the
exciting Executive Development Program at Lord & Taylor,
America’s leading fashion specialty store.

Even if you have not previously thought of retailing

as a career, you may want to know about

the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor.

If you have proven abilities and a record

of achievement, and look forward to the challenge

of managing a profitable business in just three years’ time,
Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you.

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns

of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations

Open Monday, Friday and Saturday
Route 11 North

 

 

 

 

Guit

 

NELSON STREET SERVICENTER

10% Discount On All Service Work

424 EAST NELSON STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

703 463-3922

—

AVERNAULING
(Gas Not Included)

 

 

Winter Rush ’86

Tuesday Feb. 4 — Rush Date 1
7:00 - 8:00 PM

 

Thursday Feb. 6 — Rush Date 2
7:00 - 8:00 PM

 

Friday Feb. 7 —
BOSTON TEA PARTY

9:00 -?

 

Wednesday Feb. 12 —
Midnight Madness Party
(after the pit)

 

     
   
   

All interested freshman and sophomores call:

Rush Chairman Jim Renfro (463-5279)
Rush Chairman Chris Lion (463-3678)
Lambda Chi Alpha ...(463-2600)

mr

Washington & Lee

University

Mid Winters Weekend

The Waller Family

&

The Sponge Tones

Friday, Feb. 7
8:30 p.m.

 

Sponsored By

Student Activities Board

&

The Junior Class

 

Free Admission To Juniors

$4.00 General Admission

Proper College 1.D. Required

 

££ Rati?

*

~

4

€

-

i ell

oe

*>* @hrh O HEC KBE KESE SES S +

»
‘

tl

—
‘SPORTS:

Grapplers take first
in W&L Invitational

r<« PF? F ¢ Vw = Cer «

“f

2 7 ©? 9 9

a,

7° @ €

 

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Another superb team performance
highlighted the Washington and Lee
wrestlers’ most recent triumph: a
first-place finish at Saturday’s W&L
College Invitational.

Elon provided the greatest chal-
lenge to the Generals. But W&L’s
performance in the championship
rounds (nine of 10 General wrestlers
placed) was enough for the victory.
W&L garnered 102 points, followed
by Elon with 91 1/4 and Pfeiffer with
40.

W&L head coach Gary Franke
praised the efforts of senior 167-
pounder Win Phillips, who was nam-
ed the Invitational’s ‘‘Outstanding
Wrestler.”’ Phillips recorded three
technical falls on his way to the title.

But Franke was pleased with more
than just one of his wrestlers. “It was
a fine all-around team effort,” he
said.

Three other W&L grapplers took
top honors in Saturday’s meet. Senior
co-captain Brian Lifsted won the 126-
pound weight class, freshman Mark
Robertson claimed the title at 158
pounds and classmate Rich Redfoot
was first in the 177-pound division.

 

 

 

 

 

WIN PHILLIPS

Five grapplers earned either
— or third-place points on the

y.
The Generals face LaSalle on Sat-
urday in the Warner Center. Franke
said the Explorers ‘could be a
challenge.”’

Athletes with 3.5-plus GPAs
recognized by department

 

By SAM FOLEY
Staff Reporter

Roll because we wanted to recognize the extraordinary

efforts of some fine individuals. We also wanted to il-

 

The Washington and Lee athletic department has
established an Academic-Athletic Honor Roll that recog-
nizes those student-athletes who achieve a grade point

average of 3.5 or better.

According to Sports Information Director Mark D.
Mandel, 44 students made the new honor roll for their ef-
forts during the fall term, and eight of them had an

average of 4.0 or better.

Mandel said that the idea for the honor roll really got
started during a wrestling meet when he and Athletic Di-
rector William D. McHenry were talking about how well
many of the student-athletes were performing in the

classroom.

“We decided to institute the Academic-Athletic Honor

lustrate that success in the classroom and in sports can

coexist,’’ McHenry said.

Of W&L’s 15 varsity teams, 14 had GPA’s of 2.6 or high-
er, with the women’s tennis team leading with a 2.96,
followed by the track and field team at 2.74. The football

team placed 12 athletes on the honor roll, the most from

any one team.

“T am very proud of those numbers. They show that
W&L athletes are students first and that there is a cor-
relation between athletic success and academic achieve-

ment. I think that indicates a discipline that is required

for proficiency in both areas,’”’ McHenry said.

James Barker, a varsity football player who made the
honor roll, was very enthusiastic about it. ‘The athletes
have compiled an impressive record. It shows what we

have always said about W&L athletes: They are students

first.”

Swimmers douse Towson State, 65-47

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

In similar fashion to last week’s
victories over Georgetown and Frost-
burg, the Washington and Lee men’s

Deg ae, gee eee

Valentine's Day
Specials

\ AT
e = 6 e
University Florist
15 W. Washington St., Lexington
463-6080 or 463-1559 nights

A A A ES

¢

SRL AA RAN HO AER: EN AS A A A A A A A) A) A AL) A ALD A AL A > RE (>

“Designs made with a special touch’’

Let us deliver a little love to
someone special

COUPO

1 Dozen Roses..........

V2 Dozen Roses.........
Offer expires 2-8-86

eee e twee ress eeeeeeees

ee

1 Dozen Sweetheart Roses..............

V2 Dozen Sweetheart Roses
Offer Expires 2-8-86

|
|
Ae ce eee ee ee ee ee ee ae ee ee eee oe oe ee ee

Present this coupon on or before Feb. 8, 1986,
And receive these special deals on
Valentine’s Day!

10% off any
store purchases

(Excluding FTD wire orders and use of coupons)

OTHER SPECIALS

To be given away at 12 noon,
Valentine’s Day

WIN! 1 Dozen Roses!-
for your Special Valentine

Register each time you place an order, by phone or
in person.

VOVIWOVVY

WIN! 2 Dozen Roses!-
by playing our guessing game

Guess how many hearts in jar. You win!
aR) RIN) creas) RR RRR SE ER SR RR IR te eR

swim team once again gained an ear-
ly lead which proved insurmountable
as the Generals beat Towson State
last Saturday, 65-47. The win brought
the men’s season record to 5-2.
W&L’s women’s team did not com-
pete.

al

 

shine ie Neon

ee

sissies ie tnasamomscbeoewiieac ce MMe commer ee

»

    
     
       
 
   

The Generals shot out quickly with
a win in the 400-yard medley relay
and did not slow down until after the
fifth event, the 200-yard individual
medley, where they had a 36-7 lead.

While the match, on paper, looked
to be a lot closer, head coach Page
Remillard attributes the meet’s lop-
sidedness more to the efforts of Tow-

son State than to W&L. “They didn’t _.

perform as predicted. I’m sure that
their coach was upset with their per-
formance. I think we swam okay.
Our times were generally about a
half second off what they should be,’’
commented Remillard

This weekend both the men’s and
the women’s teams will travel to
Shepherd on Friday and Gettysburg
on Saturday.

 
 

VISA

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

Getting sick

....I’m really getting sick of this.
I've had it with NCAA Division I. I
am now convinced that 1) an athletic
scholarship is a contradiction in
terms, 2) play-for-pay college athle-
tic programs, in general, have no
concern for the education of their
athletes, and 3) the elimination of
athletic scholarships would be a
beneficial and necessary — step
for the NCAA.

The latest bad news comes from Georgia, where an instructor in a
“developmental studies’ department is bringing suit against her
superiors after she was dismissed for, more or less, believing that an
institution of higher learning is also an institution of higher learning
for its athletes. For those of you not paying attention, ‘‘developmental
studies’’ is a euphemiusm for a program designed to help illiterate,
grant-in-aid athletes stay in school until their eligibility runs out.

The garbage that is being aired in Atlanta includes such distasteful
morsels as your traditional favoring of the athlete over any reasonable
academic standards (changing failing grades so athletes are allowed
to participate, and so on), strange, if not inexplicable, guidelines for
the developmental studies program, and these sad words (that’s as in,
“It’s a crying shame that there exists an attitude like this in the
university’s administrators”) from the attorney for the directors of
the department of developmental studies: ‘We may not make a
university student out of [an athlete]. But if we can teach him to read
and write, maybe he can work at the post office rather than as a gar-
bage man when he gets through with his athletic career.’’

I think the rest of the collegiate world ought to take a look at what
happened to a small Virginia men’s college in the early 1950s. That
school, showing wisdom that the NCAA needs to get (and fast), realiz-
ed that athletic scholarships were more troubie than they were worth.
Of course, that’s assuming academic enhancement is the reason one
continues his education beyond high school. Assumedly, one knows
how to read and write and need not spend four years in a supposed in-
stitution of higher learning shooting baskets and raising your market
value from that of a garbage man toa postal worker.

I think it is a safe claim that the dollar weighs much more heavily on
the minds of those running Division I programs today than it did with
the W&L Board of Trustees in 1954. What W&L realized then, as it con-
tinues to affirm today, is that if we disregard the notion of higher
learning (and “‘higher learning” should never include such ludicrous
programs as ‘‘developmental studies’) and forget the responsibilities
of a university as a place where the ideas of tomorrow are nurtured,
even for a moment, even for a select few who can fill it up from 20 and
bring countless dollars into the school (to be spent, no doubt, on good-
will trips to China for the basketball team), we are inviting the demise
of the academic foundation that anything calling itself a college should
strive to uphold.

Ironically, it seems athletic scholarships encourage athletes to hone
their jump shots, not their minds. When an athlete gets his
scholarhips, I am afraid it is seen as a license to play basketball or
whatever, not as an opportunity to get an education. If we eliminate
athletic scholarships, if we adhere to some adequate degree of
academic standards for all college students (and chuck that silly 700
rule and every developmental studies program out the window), and if
we begin to place academics (that’s as in Plato, Darwin and Burke as
opposed to Sally, Dick and Jane) above our infatuation with games,
only then can there be truly higher learning in all institutions of higher
learning.

If this means less opportunity for functional illiterates to take up
desks in universities, so be it. I wonder that if college was something
you had to earn your way into — imagine that — rather than simply
something that was offered to you free of charge (that’s in dollars and

 

 

TIME
Biss

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

academic sense), if it then might not have all the internal strife it’s

having now.

But then, I’m sure the NCAA knows what it’s doing....

....some Colonnade notes: Take a gander at those grapplers if you
get a chance. They’ve lost only once (to Division I Duke), and nobody
else has been close all season long. Let’s appreciate quality, when the
opportunity presents itself....Speaking of appreciating quality, that
Athletic-Academic Honor Roll is a pleasant sight to see, especially in
light of Georgia’s (and who knows how many other institutions’)
developmental studies program. No postal workers in this crowd,
that’s for sure...

 

 

 
 

luin-
Special rates for

Fancy Dress Rentals

Try to place your orders before
Winter Break, if possible.
Complete selection of After-Six formal wear,
cummerbunds and accessories in stock

Winter Sale Continues

With More Mark-Downs

   

CHOICE STUDENT ACCOUNT

 

Mon.-Sat., 10 a.m.-9 p.m.
‘SSE SSE 2) RA ee Se Be ee

463-2177

Sun., 12 p.m.-5 p.m.

 
   

enn a eae ——————————  _______

Bring this coupon fora

One Year Membership

for only 99 cents

Movie Rentals
$2.00 each
3 for $5.00

with this coupon

Video Cassette Player $5.00/Day

VIDEO CENTER OF LEXINGTON
Lexington, Buena Vista Shopping Park

 

Hoopsters
go winless
in last four

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

From the lofty heights of leading
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence, to the mediocre depths of play-
ing .500 basketball, Washington and
Lee has covered the spectrum.

Two weeks ago, the Generals own-.
ed first place in the conference. After
Tuesday’s 78-58 loss to Hampden-
Sydney, W&L has dropped into a
three-way tie for fourth place in the
conference with a 4-4 ODAC record
(8-8 overall).

Tuesday’s loss was W&L's fourth in
a row (and its third consecutive in
the ODAC). :

Forced to play without the team’s
leading scorer, Steve Hancock (in-
jury to right shoulder), and starting
center Harmon Harden (flu), the
Generals were never in the game. *
W&L committed 18 turnovers and’
never got closer than nine points at
any point in the contest.

Hancock’s status has improved, ;
according to W&L head trainer Tom
Jones, and he is expected to play.
tonight at Emory and Henry. Jones,
said Hancock suffered a mild separa-
tion of his right (non-shooting)
shoulder, but has responded well to
treatment. Harden, who was in the
infirmary on Tuesday and checked
out on Wednesday, will probably not
be strong enough to play tonight,
Jones said.

The loss in Farmville comes on the
heels of two losses in two days last
week. Thursday, the Generals lost a
conference game to Emory and Hen-
ry (now the ODAC leader) by a single
point.

Despite the loss, W&L head coach
Verne Canfield was happy with his
team’s performance. ‘‘We played
well enough to win, and we really
should have,” he said. :

But the Generals hurt themselves
down the stretch by missing some
key free throws.

“The guys were a little tight,”’ ex-
plained Canfield. ‘‘They shouldn’t
feel bad. That sort of thing evens
itself out in the end.”’

The Wasps took advantage of
W&L’s tightness by scoring four -
points in the final 30 seconds to take -.
the win, 66-65. o

“This is our second one-point loss :
in a row (last Tuesday’s 51-50 loss to »
Eastern Mennonite),’’ Canfield said. -
“It’s all very draining.”’

The emotional effects might have
been showing the following night,
when the Generals were outplayed by
Mary Washington, 80-69.

Tonight, the Generals travel to ©
Emory and Henry.

W&L checks Tech

Staff Report

 

 

The Washington and Lee Hockey °

Club raised its record to 2-0 with a6-3 -

win over Virginia Tech Sunday night
in Vinton.
Senior G. T. Corrigan scored three :
times in the final period to lead the -
W&L skaters to the victory. Corrigan -°
finished the game with four goals. x
“We seemed to put things together -:
(Sunday ] night,”’ Vin LaManna, club --
president said. “It was a tough game, -°
but we were up to it.”’ “
The club’s next action will be Sun- *:
day against Roanoke College.

 

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 

*
——
a ndage
—_—
JSawelri by Hana

Artist in Cahoot’s Gallery

Old Main St. Mall
Main at Henry St.
Mon.-Fri, 10-5 Sat. 10-2

 

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your
head for

my business.

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“<BACK PAGE

Open season begins
for Fancy Dress bids

 

 

Pus
By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

\s the winter term gets underway,
we are no doubt on the brink of enter-

ing ‘The Season.’’ You may be won-
dering: ‘Which season? Winter
track, lacrosse, the job-hunting

season, or what?”

‘The Season” is none of these. It is,
rather, that season which, to many
W&L students and even more so to
certain members of the student
bodies of our sister schools, is more
important than any other. Lest you
need post-Washington Holiday
schedule to realize what I am talking
about, you no doubt now realize that
the season is, of course, the Fancy
Dress season

At the present time, many expect
that Fancy Dress will fall on March
7. This being the case, we are left
with 36 days in the season.

The reason that the time before
Fancy Dress is such an interesting
one can be understood, at least in
part, in mathematical terms. Ac-
cording to ‘“‘The College Handbook”’
for 1984-85, there were 845 full-time
students at Hollins College, 820 at
Mary Baldwin College, 750 at Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman's College, 699
at Sweet Briar College.

Thus, assuming the numbers have
not changed significantly there are
about 3,114 girls going to school full
time within 45 minutes of Lexington.
There are about 1350 undergraduates
at W&L, of which approximately 100
are female. Thus, for each W&L
male, there are about 2.5 females
who would love to receive the coveted
bid.

Seen from the objective point of
view, who could argue with a young
lady wanting to attend Fancy Dress.
Who would not like a date for the

weekend with one of the South’s
finest gentlemen? Add to that, 2 to 3
nights of nice lodging, three nights of
bands, and parties, a T-shirt, and
most of all, the ability to tell one’s
friends, relatives, recent acquain-
tances and suminer house neighbors
that, “Of course, I-I-I’ve been to Fan
cy Dress.”

The season operates as follows:
During the next 36 days, we will
begin to see here at W&L many girls
who we have not seen for many mon
ths. This is to be expected. Anyone
with half a mind knows one cannot be
asked to a party if she is not in the
presence of the askers. With the in-
flux of new girls, some of whom may
not have set foot on Rockbridge soil
since March of last year, one might
begin to think that Rugby Road
had been demolished and _ that
Farmville had been encircled by a
Berlin-type wall. As far as the influx
goes, it will be fairly slow at first and
begin to really expand toward the
end of this month. Remember, there
are but three weeks before Washing-
ton Holiday and everyone, except for
those who like to roll the dice with a
previously-harvested crop, has
already gotten an FD. date.

Now that the girls are here during
January and February, they seem a
good deal friendlier sometimes, than
they did before Christmas. No longer
is the middle-of-the-road W&L guy
given a cursory yet courteous “hi”
while the girl of the road rushes off to
lay a big hug on the fraternity ‘face
man”’ who is known to have a home-
town girlfriend.

Appearances matter too, and the
fact that Fancy Dress Season is dur-
ing the Winter seems to be a relief to
some bid demanders. It seems to me
that many more of those big, shape-
less, ‘total cover’’ sweaters come
out during the Fancy Dress Season

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

     

U.S. LIN.

EAST LEX

463-3614

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

Open Until Midnight

 

 

formerly Campus Shop

 

  

Cream - ‘‘Wheels of Fire”’

The Who - ‘‘Who’s Next”

TDK SA90Reg. $3.10 NOW $2.05
MAxell XLII 90 Reg. $3.23 NOW $2.39

Led Zeppelin - “Physical Graffiti’

The Kinks - ‘One For The Road”

Bob Dylan - ‘‘Blood On The Tracks”’

Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young - ‘4 Way Street”’
Neil Young - ‘Crazy Horse ¢ Live Rust”’

The Doors - ‘‘Alive She Cried’’

List $9.98—Just $7.98
List $5.98—Just $3.98
List $13.98—Just $10.98
List $15.98—Just 10.98
List $8.98—Just $6.98
List $15.98—Just $12.98

List $13.98—Just $10.98

 

117 W. Nelson St.

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TOGO, |
OR DELIVERED

than in the earlier, yet cold, months.
You know which ones I am talking
about (and some of you probably own
them.). I just don’t see how those big
sweaters can be comfortable. They
go down to an 1/8 of an inch or so
above the knee, greatly constricting
movement, and must weigh 15 or 20
pounds. I guess they have their
benefits, or girls wouldn’t wear
them, but I have a feeling some guys
don’t bid on totally covered merchan-
dise. Another appearance factor that
is interesting is the ‘January tan.” I
guess chicks get them in northern
Vermont over Christmas

In general, now that the W&L cam-
pus resembles a commodity trading
floor, the date selection process
works fairly well. It must, since
everyone proclaims to have had ‘‘the
best time ever” at F.D. on the Mon-
day after. Apparently, tor those who
came to Fancy Dress, it was a season
worth road trips to Lexington, ‘‘stu-
dying’ at W&L, the foregoing of
UVa, and a little work from the dusty
Jane Fonda album.

At the close of the season on March
7, no doubt most people will have had
an enjoyable evening. As in many ac-
tivities, the intrigue of the build up
may be more interesting than the
event itself, but I’m not sure of that.

In the end, those who come will
have fun and for those who don't,
there is always next year, a state
school fraternity party, Farmville
society, or the repeating of the old
standby, ‘‘I don’t care. I really didn’t
want to go anyway.”

In any case, it is hoped that every-
one has the best season possible and
that in light of all the intrigue and
energy involved in the season, that no
one forgets that Fancy Dress, al-
though it may be the finest social
event in collegiate America, is still
just a party.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

  

Whistle while you work

The acoustic guitar-playing duo Heinsohn and Day per-
forms ina show at the Subway last Thursday night right
off the heels of a successful Southern tour that took them

Roger Day graduated in 1984.

Feature films spark ’86 Filmfest

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

pressive and includes everything trom documentaries vu
modern Stone-Age tribes found in the Phillipines to
“Gone With the Wind.”’

 

Since it was developed, film has been an important
medium because through motion pictures, directors and
writers can impress mass audiences with ideas that
otherwise would not reach the public with the same im-

pact.

Washington and Lee politics Professor Craig McCaugh-
rin not only has recognized this fact, he has decided to

utilize film as a teaching tool.

“It is important to use a medium people could link up
with,’ McCaughrin said. ‘‘And in this point of the 20th

century, it’s cinema.”’

When he arrived here in the fall of 1981, McCaughrin
was already familiar with the use of film as an aide from
his days at Wayne State University in Michigan, and
when Professor William Buchanan, then head of the poli-
tics department, asked him if he would be interested in
using film with his classes, the Politics Filmfest was con-

ceived.

The Filmfest, conducted each term, is designed to in-
corporate theories expressed in classes and texts with
those present in popular and classic films. The list of
films shown since the program’s inception in 1982 is im-

Waterboys dive into mystic

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

      
  
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

 

° Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy?
Pizza and Priazzo™ Ital-
ian Pie.

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Sat.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

e Each Wednesday night,

   
 

1985 Pizza Hut, Inc

 

5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, Spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only *3.49. Children under 6
years-99%

 

 

Pree

“Hut.

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

The Waterboys want nothing less
than to evoke the fury of Mother
Nature herself. Last year, when
head-Waterboy Mike Scott sang, ‘I
have heard the Big Music and I'll
never be the same,”’ he was talking
about the music he was playing as
much as he was talking about the
spiritual call he was heeding. ‘‘This
is the Sea’’ is an ambitious, thematic
record that attempts to study the gulf
between mortality and the soul, be-
tween man and spirit. On ‘The Whole
Of The Moon,” Scott’s voice spirals
upward in a sort of ecstatic hysteria
as he pits his own mortal shortcom-
ings a gainst the wondrous power of
the soul. “I saw the rain dirty
valley/ You saw Brigadoon/I saw the
crescent/You saw the whole of the
moon?”

This gulf is no easy one to fill. Scott

realizes that, but he has a couple of
ideas on how to close it a bit. On “The
Pan Within,” he takes the listener on
a frantic journey of the body. As the
music swells, so does Scott's desire.
“The wind is delicious/sweet and
wild with the promise of pleasure...”
he urges. “All we gotta do is sur-
renier ‘‘

Other wacks examine more down
to earth topics. The touching “Old
England” attacks the current U.K.
heroin problem and “By My Ene-
my,’ a frantic Dylan-inspired rock-
er, is about paranoia and revenge.

In the end, Scott finds a balance.
The closing title track sums up the
battling forces that have been plagu-
ing the whole record. Layer after lay-
er of sound is added until the track
comes crashing down with a resoun-
ding roar. “Once you were tether-
ed/Now you are free.’’ shouts Scott
over the thunderous mus‘c. ‘That
was the river/This is the sea.”

Missing from Pavilion — Black cashmere over-
coat. Ely Tailors, Broadway, N.Y. If picked ‘‘by acci-
dent”’ please call Paul 463-9579.

This Friday at G.H.Q.

January 31st

4-7 P.M. —WLUR disc jockeys
broadcasting live from our

stage.

9 P.M. — 1 A.M. — Gutsy
rhythm and blues with
“Tough Luck’’ featuring

Lips Lackowitz.

GENERAL

BHO

a

 

 

 

 

& ’ ~ gy
‘BA DQUARTE™

Saturday, February Ist
G.H.Q. and the A.C.E. present
"The Suspects”

 

Still, its major purpose is to teach by exposing classes
to differing viewpoints on political theories. In fact, Mc-
Caughrin tries to design the Filmfest with more than one
class in mind.

“While there is an attempt to make it applicable to the
course with the largest enrollment, which is usually Poli-
tics 101, I try to keep an eye on other courses that might
be applicable,’’ McCaughrin said.

In the past, as many as three or four courses have
utilized the Filmfest at once, and its appeal has spilled
over into other departments as well. Since the Media Cen-
ter at the University Library was created in 1982, the
history, Russian and Romance languages departments
have also begun film festivals and film showings, and the
journalism department offers courses studying both past
and contemporary films. :

With the success the Filmfest has had, McCaughrin
still wonders what the future of the program will be, es-
pecially next fall, when he will have a semester-long sab-
batical.

He feels strongly, however, that the Politics Filmfest
should continue — so strongly, in fact — that he jokingly
suggests: ‘‘Maybe I’ll come back next fall just to show
the movies.”’

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, January 30
10 a.m. — SEMINAR: ‘‘Seven, Plus or Minus Two, Myths About
Metaphor.’’ Professor Howard R. Pollio, University of Tennessee, Phi
Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. Room 318, Tucker Hall.
4p.m. — PHI BETA KAPPA LECTURE: ‘‘Taking Humor Seriously,”
Professor Howard R. Pollio. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall.
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘‘The Mauler From Maryville.”
Byron T. Eppley ’86. Room 401, Howe Hall. (Tea at 4:30 in Room 402.)
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘Judgment at Nuremburg.”’ Room 327,
Commerce School.
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: “‘Economic Justice: A Jewish Perspective.”
Rabbi David Saperstein, Religious Action Center. Room 221, Com-
merce School. Public invited.

Friday, January 31
11 a.m. — SEMINAR: “What Would A Psychology of Human Ex-
perience Look Like?’’ Professor Howard R. Pollio, Phi Beta Kappa
Visiting Scholar. Room 7, Newcomb Hall.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘Tough Luck’’ Sponsored by the General Head-
quarters. Cover charge $2.

Saturday, February 1
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘The Suspects.”’ Sponsored by Association of Col-
legiate Entrepreneurs. Cover charge $2. GHQ.

Tuesday, February 4
11 a.m. — RED CROSS BLOODMOBILE: Sponsored by the Chi Psi
Fraternity. At the Warner Center until 5 p.m.
4 p.m. — COMPUTER SCIENCE COLLOQUIUM: ‘What Operations
Researchers Do.”’ Professor Car] M. Harris, George Mason Universi-
ty. Room 25, Robinson Hall. (Refreshments at 3:30 in Room 21).
Public invited.
4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Job Hunting Techniques. University Center.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Southern Comfort, the University Chorus. Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

Wednesday, February 5

4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Resume Writing. University Center.

4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Poetry
Reading by Michael Harper, Northen Auditorium. University Library.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT AT GHQ: Featuring ‘Wild
Kingdom.” Sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Cover charge
$2.50

 

Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi,

 

~~ < + » & &

 

 

 

Sat

fpalfne= Lf hit F tives
Add life toa

dreary winter
day — stop by!

    

165 South Main St. 463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

     
    
    

 
 

¥
=

to Atlanta, The group is made up of two Washington and :
Lee alumni. Eric Heinsohn (left) graduated in 1982, and *

¥

le,

2

“

ere e¢e@@¢e& & eA * SH OS

~

*

*.

« «< &¢ €s& $ @

# @¢€
