 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION
The fury...

The furor over the supposed codification of the Honor
System took a turn for the worse Monday night as the Execu-
tive Committee attempted to come to some decision about its
position on the new Student Control Committee rules.

The problem the EC encounters with the new rules adopted
by the faculty last spring is one of substance and of style. For
the EC, as they believe for all students, the new rules present
a real and present danger to the health of the Honor System.
They, in reflecting student sentiment, fear it attempts to
remove from the jurisdiction of the SCC the right to decide
each case on its own merits. In reality, the new rules repre-
sent many years of unexacting student disciplining of their
own ranks. The faculty, as they have done before, has decid-
ed that enough is enough; they will tolerate ‘‘animalism’’ no
more. They have, so to speak, told students that they need to
wisen up to the concerns of others.

We students need to regain our sense of perspective on the
privileges of self-governance.

The Washington and Lee environment allows students to
govern their own affairs and to discipline their peers. That is
one legacy left by Lee that remains today. Through the EC,
honor-related matters are tried by peers; the SCC — another
body of peers — considers matters outside of honor, princi-
pally those cases dealing with behavioral discipline. But over
the years, we students have taken both rights to self-govern-
ance too easily, and our often lackadaisical attitude towards
such matters led the faculty and the administration to recon-
sider and redesign the disciplinary structure for the Univer-
sity.

So when the day of reckoning comes and we are told by the
faculty that our ‘‘animalistic’”’ behavior will no longer be
tolerated, we students are upset. We cry foul when a commit-
tee attempts to clarify the old disciplinary guidelines by
creating ‘‘major’’ and ‘“‘minor’’ offenses with suggested
discipline. We fear the new major offenses will spell unmiti-
gated disaster and many expulsions if enacted. We fear that
our friends, in a moment of repose, will utter the inutterable
sexual slur and out they’ll go. We quake as if the Honor
System will be degraded and weakened.

I fear our reaction — as seen in the EC these past few
weeks — is overexaggeration. The challenge to the Honor
System is not in the codifying of the disciplinary code nor can
it be found in suggested disciplinary measures. The chal-
lenge, as some have suggested, is to regain the sober concern
and seriousness that once ruled in all student affairs. It is,
essentially, to try to regain a new sense of honor.

Can we as self-governing students rise to the occasion
again and discipline ourselves? I believe we can. We suffer
from arrogance if we believe that our Honor System can ad-
dress behavioral discipline, for it cannot. Lee’s command-
ment to behave as gentlemen, although a nobel sentiment, at
times fails to address itself to the necessary and proper
behavior of the current student generation.

I agree with SCC Chairman Townes Pressler that the new
rules deserve a try. They do not challenge nor do they
threaten the current Honor System. They provide appropri-
ate guidance to matters with which the SCC has little exper-
ience, most notably drug-related matters. Despite the reser-
vations of some EC members, the new rules uphold the very
traditions we cherish. They should be tried.

 

—NRP

... and the sound

One of the advantages of going to school in the peaceful
Shenandoah Valley is that you can hear the sounds of nature
at night — owls hooting, squirrels scavenging, wind rustling
the leaves outside your window. And there are other sounds
of nature — town folks testing their cars’ accelerators and
brakes, garbage trucks backing into your driveway at five in
the morning to the gentle chirping of “beep, beep, beep” or
even the shrill whine of the police and fire trucks as they re-
spond to the latest calls much earlier than sane people should
ever get into trouble. If these people — and we mean those
who live around us in the City of Lexington — would only
quiet down, maybe we could concentrate on the sounds of
nature around us, like fraternity parties.

Fury about the sound

The freshman class gathered Monday night in Lee Chapel
for a symposium on the Honor System that featured past and
present EC members. Most of the freshmen, however,
couldn’t have cared less. Their murmuring throughout the
hour-long program, shredding of index cards into confetti
(which they left behind) and stretching out in the aisles as if
preparing for bed displayed behavior expected of three-year
olds. Their lax attitude and immature behavior reflect poorly
on the University.

Che Ring-tum Phi

TOE ac iii thecceribatiiiies steams Mike Allen
REE iiss cas ccsereeticrsabinceccesseccscethebemieniieen Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
Re ci icine ee Reade Williams
i as ie ieee ters acta encnenen in Mike Stachura
te. de Ee er rr re Nelson Patterson
TO crepe ti cs tcsdtinscesss tie Christopher Deighan
Jim Strader
ee re ree I Chris Bowring
MURIIUE ERAGE oobi 6 chi i hee ka Jeff Kimbeli
DIVE ESE chia. i Hank Greenberg
AMVOEUAMEOAMEIIOE 6 ois ieciiiiiiti ce Keri Hinrichs
Matt Coudert
John Feyrer
Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

‘ Look, I’m goin’ back to the house. I’ve gotta get some studying done!!’

 

 

——— iin

 

 

Antiquated Rush system needs computerization.

MY VIEW
by Steven
Pockrass

 

After viewing another Rush at
Washington & Lee, it seems obvious
that whoever invented sun roofs for
BMWs had sign-carrying fraternity
members in mind.

Yet in this highly technological
age, when even Fords have sunroofs,
Coke machines talk to us and Mom’s
apple pie can be re-heated in the
microwave, isn’t it amazing that we
have maintained this ancient Greek
system of Rush dates, open houses,
and so on?

Perhaps it’s time we computerized
Rush.

Just think of it — no longer will the
Phi Delta Thetas and Zeta Beta Taus
need to worry about having their
names left out of the Rush Book (see
pages 24 and 44, respectively).

And KAs who passed out Rush cal-
endars before the start of freshman
orientation will no longer feel it
necessary to point accusatory,
Southern fingers at those dirty Sigma

Nus, who deplorably broke ‘‘no con-
tact’’ by helping the freshmen move
into the dorms.

To solve such dilemmas, we could
computerize Rush in either of two
ways. One is to have self-reported in-
formation, similar to the college
search. The questions weuld be much
more fraternity-oriented, however,
such as ‘‘How would you rate your-
self as a partier?”’

Because of W&L’s honor code, we
would not have to worry about any ly-
ing, but due to the subjective nature
of the questions, there could be some
discrepancies.

I might describe myself as ‘‘an
animal,’’ but you may have seen me
party and consider me ‘a super
animal,” or on the other end of the
spectrum, ‘‘a big goob.”’

So the second (and more effective)

method of computerized Rush wotfld ”

be to form a judging committee,
similar to those found in Oly
synchronized swimming.

Perhaps this austere body could be
made up of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil members, who I am sure would
cherish the opportunity to do some-
thing this constructive during the
opening week of school.

Alcohol could be served to loosen

OUR VIEW
by Mike McAlevey
and Mike Henderson

 

I'll get tons anyway!

O do not ask what is it

I go to all my classes.
I haven't missed a day.

I’m bound to get an F.

 

Let us go to the keg spigot!

The written image on the wall,

As is the shadow of the form.

Futile, he just can’t halt the fall

He’s far below the humdrum norm.
O, O, O, what does the professor say?

So much for being a doctor
I'll just be a Micki D’s chef,

 

 

O, Athena thou still unravished bride of academic quietness
Shed your grace and illuminate these our views.

Descend from the lofty heights of Parnassus

And wield your staff of enlightenment against the evils of Bacchus.

O, Gray, distantly addressing our college while eatin’
Did you ask that overwhelming question?

Is the ignorance as that of a cretin,

Better than wisdom and its digestion?

Why should we work, and get good grades?

This is the drudgery of squares and tools.

Give me my D’s and Ray Ban shades!

Who gives a hoot if I’m an unlearned fool.

All too much this permanence and change.

Give me my gun, shells, and skeet range.

Who cares if I’m chairman of AT&T or the Grange,

O, Socrates, bring this Meno to his senses
Or from them, him deliver.

He knows not of his lies or pretenses,

But surely does and dooms his liver.

Let us go then me and you

When the evening is still young,

Study diligently then go spew

Whether in alabaster, porcelain or on paper our heralds sung
I do all right, I’m no idiot or fool

Next term I'll do better, you wait and see.
But for now, I just want to be cool.

Why do you care? My future is me.

But his diction, my mind harasses.

So we have this boy in cooking
Since he was so weak at booking.

. uc us us Of the oracle, the Crysta:
It’s not how much you know, but the way you look
So it goes with the pseudo-intellectual pistol.
He’s picked up the text and from it a few phrases shook,

up the freshmen and to prevent those
nerve-racking and sometimes fatal
caffeine overdoses caused by ‘‘dry
Rush.” After obtaining the students’
personal information (name, age,
hometown), the committee would
have them perform various skills
tests, such as the timed imbibing of
beer from a funnel-and-hose appara-
tus, joke-telling, name-passing,
class-oversleeping and mantle-div-
ing. Scores would range from one
(goob) to 10 (animal — will probably
be thrown out after one semester),
with the highs and lows being drop-

Candidates’ scores would be scaled
for each fraternity, depending on the
houses’ needs, characteristics and
desires.

Freshmen would be expected to
pledge at the houses where they have
the highest scores. Those who de-
pledge for whatever reason could go
through a deferred Rush during the
winter after they have seen the
houses for a semester.

Such a system would match the
freshmen’s strengths with the frater-
nities’ needs and characteristics. It
would also divide the freshmen fairly
among houses, so that the rich do not
necessarily become richer while the

poor become poorer. With some crea-
tive mathematics, each house would
have about the same number.
Perhaps computerized Rush is not
as personal as not allowing contact
with the freshmen for five days, par-
tying with them for two, giving them
those well-edited, once hard-covered

the same photos as when I rushed in
1983) after they register for Rush and
then cramming eight open houses in-
to a 33-hour period that sandwiches
the first day of classes.

When Robert E. Lee was president
of this university, it was the most
progressive in the country. Compu-
terized Rush would be a step in that
direction.

Considering the exemplary job
done by many universities in match-
ing roommates by computer and our
new computer mainframe, we have
the technology.

W&L does an excellent job of room-
ing jocks with people who are not
even athletic supporters, steak
lovers and vegetarians, big goobs
with party animals and alcoholics
with workaholics, so at least com-
puterized Rush will shield our frats
from that one horrible fate — a lack
of diversity.

0 ee ee en
A Valediction: Forbidding learning

He can recite from memory many fools baffle

He speaks of distant prospects, urns, love songs, and waste lands
Employing quotes like prizes won in a raffle

He loses his audience with his cuntident stanus

I’ve paid close attention
To each and every tuition.

Of all the greats, I’ll in passing mention
I’ll make sure all my learning comes to pointless fruition.

To the Cocktail party, he loves to go
Often making casual reference to Michelangelo.

Eight o’clock, time to get up now, eight o’clock...

And it’s off to another day of informational packing.

This student of disinterested self-sacrifice makes no idle talk
His life in all respects, but academia is lacking

Spirit, there’s none we’re a tabula rasa

Fill it with gobs of facts, figures and dates,

The mere thoughts of fun evokes fear and nausea

To nothing else but his books he relates.

Look, I’ve got a future, med school or the like

Literature, art, music — It’s bunk

You and your culture can go take a hike
This humanities stuff is non-empirical junk.

And witha cynical laugh he shuffles to lab
Flunks out on life and ends up driving a cab.

Behold, Philistine, From Colonnade to Lee Chapel,
It’s a pilgrimage to knowledge then heaven

Shoddy parchments, tests, papers — Mink can’t spell.
Sure, drink and be merry, You're on Year Plan Seven.
That Danish egghead Soren sure knows

Introspect buzzhead, ‘‘You’re in despair!”’

Papers tutured by Crickels are sactimonious shows
Hark, Let’s admit there are a few in disrepair.
Tomorrow his belly hanging, sipping tonic and gin,
Poor ex-mink has nothing, nothing within.

A splendid opportunity lost — damn what a sin

Pick up a book, too late, Can’t see over his/her double chin.

So, it is what is sown is what you reap
Too bad you're just macho instead of deep.

Alas, out of the ashes of Phoenixian consummation

Rises the erect figure of our quintessential man.

He has voraciously seized without hesitation

The bodies of knowledge; the grand master plan

C-school is a breeze to this master of wit

As are the sciences and humantties endeavors of joy

He has time on the weekend to party a bit

Never does he allow admission to Sans foy or Sans Loy.

Like Apollo he roams east to find his patron

He casts the spear of curiosity to the clouds of Olympian glory.
A true mixture of Dionysius & Athena has matron

Our Ubermensch in his highest form and thus ends our story.

And so are the poets the unacknowledged

legislators of W&L.

 

 

‘

‘

4

4

.¢€

*

Rush Books (complete with many of

:

‘

‘

+

(o— =!

 

ee

 

 

—
a ia « «

9
-

aa
- «

a —
. ° -

-
°

 

_ a et
a a
» *
 

Article in Washington Post
appalls former W&L student

To the Editors:

Forgive me, but my mind is still
reeling from the latest assault
wrought upon our beloved alma
mater by way of “‘the only newspaper
in Washington,”’ and, though I had
previously contracted this time to
Corporate America, I am nonethe-
less compelled to air my views most
vociferously and with all due haste.

First of all, the very implication
that Dr. Coulling empathizes with
those who would use the surrounding
lady’s colleges as receptacles for
their shameless improprieties leaves
me aghast. There is no doubt in my
mind that the referenced quote was
but a fragment of a lengthier reflec-
tion wrested from context to suit the
vulgar designs of The Washington
Boast — its head still swollen from
the Watergate witch-hunt.

Though this barb was undoubtedly
meant as an assassination on Pro-
fessor Coulling’s singular character,
nonetheless the wound is borne by all
those who have through the years en-
gaged in the pleasantries of conver-
sation and wholesome social inter-
course at our sister institutions. O
sweet civilization, your inbred re-
straint leaves you all too vulnerable a
target for the encroachment of vul-
garity!

And so my plea is carried to those
who, with horror and disdain, have
witnessed the deep inroads carved in
recent years by the purveyors of il-
liberality. Hold fast, dear W&L!
Though your modesty precludes you
from grasping the sheer enormity of
your role, be assured that you are in-
deed one of the last great institutions
whose worth exceeds the purview of
the net income statement.

Remember also in these darkened
days that, above all else, yours is a
task of vigilance. As the Great Philo-
sopher himself so sage counseled,
democracy excels only at fostering
mediocrity, and the war against the
platitudinous hordes is most effec-
tively waged through demonstrations
of excellence and achievement.

Finally, it is to your credit, dear
school, that the wisdom of age did in-
deed triumph over the natural rigidi-
ty that invariably shadows an institu-
tion of extended years. By this, I am
referring to your concession, nobly
rendered, that the pursuit of excel-
lence observes no gender, (nor, will I
believe, was this latter-day admis-
sion driven solely by economies of
scale! )

There can be no shame in a deci-
sion enfranchising half the popula-
tion with the opportunity to pursue a
superior education, although certain-
ly the inclusion of a few home econo-
mics courses can’t hurt at this point
and can only broaden the vistas and
career - aspirations of future grad-
uates. But frankly I fail to see the
point in dwelling on minor cur-
riculum changes when the very
fabric of Washington and Lee has
been challenged by outsiders!

Nor will I condescend by proffering
a response to the preposterous obser-
vation that W&L students of previous
years have been found lacking in
either intellect or ambition. Who
dares to make such a claim! OK,
maybe the class of 1959 or even 1981
(that was a dull one!), but as any
wine connoisseur is quick to assert,
even the more legendary vineyards
are unable to boast a consistently
superior product year after year.

Moreover, the price of a good meal

today is such that no one wouia stoop
to deny a gentleman the small plea-
sure gained from exhorting ‘‘Ah yes,
1946, that was a good year,”’ that is to
Say in 1945 the ravages of war were
still being felt in sourthern Europe,
and 1947 saw witness to a terrible
drought. Gentlemen, while such se-
lective condescension is the spice of
life, wholsesale disparagement is
positively unseemly!

As for the generally perceived
statures of The Washington Post
among gentlemen of distinction, let
me just say that I beg to differ with
said gentlemen in that I’m an avid
reader of the Post. Certainly their
fictions rival those of The New
Yorker, and in fact, it wasn’t long
ago that one of their staff writers
temporarily won a Pulitzer Prize for
her work.

All mud-slinging aside, there can
be no doubt that Washington and Lee
has more than its pretty facade to
thank for the longevity and ongonig
success it has enjoyed. A study in
tenacity, the school, in one form or
another, ahs survived the Revolu-
tionary War, the Civil War, and two
world wars, not to mention that ulti-
mate, and far more recent, test of in-
stitutional mettle euphemistically re-
ferred to as ‘‘the sixties.”’

In the context of such an illustrious
past, then, let us relegate this latest
media assault to an analogous histor-
ical parable — perhaps the detection,
by General Robert E. Lee, of lint on
the sleeve of his battle greys as he
mounted the charge at Antietam — a
rmaild annoyance for such a perfidious
gentleman, to be sure, but infinitely
perpheral to the task at hand.

Norman Ball
Class of ’83

Pyle’s sludge bores reader

To the Editors:

I thought something of a blight had
been lifted from Washington and Lee
with the graduation of the class of

’ 1984 and the departure of one Mark-

_ ham Shaw Pyle. No longer, I thought,
would his odious commentaries lurk

‘ on the pages of The Phi, waiting to
bore and offend any who might come
near.

Evidently I was wrong, for the

_ portly, pompous, pipe-smoking,
pear-shaped. Pyle has joined the
' ranks of the Law School, despite

 

Thanks
to you,
it works

An appeal to all members of the
Washington and Lee community:

The United Way campaign for
the current year is now beginning
and I write to ask you to contri-
bute as generously as you possibly
can. Our last year’s effort was tru-
ly remarkable, for the goal was
exceeded by some 25 percent. In
fact, special efforts by two of our
fraternities (Delta Tau Delta and
Sigma Nu) played key roles in
boosting us so consipicuously over
our budgeted target.

This year ie :aculty and staff
volunteers are being led by Mr.
Darrell and they have been given,
on behalf of us all, yet another
target to aim for. It is $22,500, a
seven percent increase over last
year’s record-breaking effort. I
know we can achieve this if we all
take thought about the increase
each of us must commit — and if
others who were not able to join in
last year’s effort are able and will-
ing to do so this time.

I have special enthusiasm for
this annual campaign, not only
because it gives each of us a
chance to help others in the com-
munity who need our help, but
also because it represents a col-
lective effort of the Univesity
family. There are too few occa-
sions when students, faculty and
staff are brought together in a
worthwhile enterprise. The
United Way is one such, and I
hope we can joyfully come togeth-
er to make a major gift to our own
community. Your generous sup-
port, I know, will be deeply ap-
preciated.

Sincerely,

John D. Wilson
University President

 

 

 

 

avowals never to go to law school ac-
companied by disparaging com-
ments about the folks in Lewis Hall.
Amazingly, the would-be seminarian
(God wasn’t hiring) took until the
third issue of The Phi to grace us with
one of his sermons. But when he did,
it was a legendary ‘“‘pile.”’

Apparently Markham didn’t like
the opinions of Mr. Patterson and Mr.
Carter in an earlier Phi, and Pyle felt
a need to vent his polysyllabic fury.
This is fine and well, and I guess part
of The Phi’s purpose, but, Markham,

your “‘carping”’ ad hominen attacks
in your “‘little scribble’ are definite-
ly in your “‘usual reptilian fashion,”
and totally unwarranted.

Whether or not the Texan bard ac-
tually had anything to say, I don’t
know, because I didn’t want to dig
through the sludge. I merely hope
Pyle will spare us his tirades, per-
haps sending his views to the Law
News, where he can expose a totally
new audience tohis oratory.

I pity them.

David W. Johnston
Class of '86

Mechanical villains
exacting high toll

To the Editors:

While I am ecstatic over the inclu-
sion of Washington and Lee in Ed-
ward Fiske’s book ‘‘221 Best Buys in
College Education,” I believe Mr.
Fiske has overlooked one minor
detail that has borne heavily on the
pockets and pocketbooks of many a
student at W&L, one whose impor-
tance cannot be overlooked. I speak,
of course, of the ravenous vending
and drying machines on campus.

I realize that I speak only from per-
sonal experience, but I find that fi-
nancial outlay on machines (working
or otherwise) that won’t return my
money is far outpacing my tuition
costs. It will be hard to explain to Mr.
DeCourcy of Financial Aid that I
need another job because the Coke
machine in the Commerce School

lounge is employing extortion. I’ve
cajoled the ‘Lance’s’ machine in the

Commerce School, I’ve pleaded with ”

the dryers in Graham-Lees dormi-
tory, and I’ve about torn out my hair
over the aforementioned Coke
machine in an effort to get them to
listen to reason. I find that they are
closed to all further discussion.
Either they are out-of-order, or they
are Republican. I like Republicans; I
do not like these machines.

Please remove them, or fix them
as soon as possible. I cannot over-
state this enough. If this can be
achieved, we can spend our time
tackling the easier problems, such as
coeducation.

Thomas Brickel
Class of ’89

Name change aids
student body unity

 

By DANA BOLDEN

 

As the students of Washington and
Lee get settled, the changes around
campus have become more and more
obvious. There is one change that has
occurred that may not be noticed as
rapidly as the fact that we are now
coeducational. The Student associa-
tion for Black Unity has changed its
name. Before revealing the name, I
would like to say this is a move that
should be heartily applauded. The
name SABU really discouraged peo-
ple from participating in activities
that the house sponsored. The deci-
sion to rename SABU proved to be
quite serendipitous; students of all
races expressed a sincere interest in
helping the brothers of SABU. There
were many reasons for the change,
the main one being the words ‘‘black
unity.” Those two words made it
seem as if the blacks in the W&L
family were uniting against someone
or something. In speaking with Der-
rick freeman, president of SABU, I
found that not only does this organi-
zation want to attract blacks, but all

minorities, including women.

In the past SABU has invited black
speakers to speak with black stu-
dents. It is now the policy of SABU to
invite any speaker who has a valid
topic of interest for all students. This
is a very smart move, because in
order to achieve racial harmony in
the W&L community, we must all
come together, not just to organize
groups to promote one thing.

One of my reasons for attending
W&L is that there is a family at-
mosphere among the students. Re-
gardless of what fraternal organiza-
tion you’re in, the bond that exists
between alumni, faculty and students
is always there and is used to correct
any existing ‘“‘wrongs.’’ The change
by SABU demonstrates this feeling.

Now that this change has come
about, maybe the Student Activities
Board will work closer, not only with
the Minority Student Association, but
with all organizations on campus. To
campus. To the newly formed gov-
the newly formed government and
members of MSA: Hats off!

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 3

 

 

 

Wk CAN BOTH USE
FoR THt DEFENSE
Of THE PLANET 9

 
 
  

 

  
 

 
  
  
   

COME ON,
MIKHAIL,
TAKE IT
FOR A

TEST
SPIN.

   
 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

wd

s_44 a

TM NOT SURE 1 FULLY EXPLAINED it fa
TWE ‘DEFENSE ONLY PROVISIONS... Lg

 

 

 

Rush slanders are not tolerable

To the Editors:

A rumor is an ugly thing. More
often than not its element of interest
exceeds that of truth. Its origin is
dark and its growth and mutation is
the result of many particulars of cir-
cumstance involving personal pre-
judices and regrettable pettiness.
Yet, certainly unfortunately, a
rumor may have some influence
(and that over mostly small minded
people, to be sure) which may have
inconvenient effects. The goal of he
who has been taught to admire honor
and truth then is, to seek to expose
rumor for the travesty it is and re-
store trust to those whose tongues
have erred and whose ears have been
tainted.

Recently, during Rush, there have
been quiet (and no doubt ill-advised)
mumblings by some which cannot
but shock one (as they did me) in
their blatant unfairness to those
properly chosen to advise and

counsel freshmen. These poisoned
utterances, in various forms, have
suggested that those very advisors
— men and women — placed to help
freshmen, have chosen favoring cer-
tain fraternities over others, in their
discussions with freshmen, in the
dorms and elsewhere.

This is, | suppose, a predictable but
disappointing accusation to come out
of Rush and I would like to see it, and
all such venom, put indisputably
down. It is understandable that dur-
ing Rush concerns of many sorts
arise, but blatant slander should not
be tolerated, and allowed to exert its
influence, if only over the gullible
and naive. A school concerned with
honor must concern itself with truth
and not protect, even by default, cer-
tain ideas which are pleasing, if they
arise from considerations outside of
truth. Mistakes must also be allowed,
and recognized as such ad provision
must be made against unwarranted

 

attack. Perhaps then, we can for-
give rumor-mongers while guarding
against their annoying folly in the
future by showing inequivocally that
those they accuse have been made
explicitly aware of the limits of what
they may say to freshmen and affirm
after all that they have not exceeded
those boundries.
Erik Curren
Class of '87

Plastic is not
good enough

To the Editors:

In response to your Sept. 19
editorial, the flowers are silk,
Nelson, not plastic. Only silk is good
enough for W&L.

Jerry Darrell
Director of Food Service

 

  

LAST EPISODE THE CAPTAIN HAD GONE TO Moscow} [ He LAS NERVOUS | f HE WAS ALSO NERVOUS ABOUT BEING
TO SHARE HIS STAR WARS TECHNOLOGY,

¥00 HOO, MR GORBACHEV.
ARE YOu FINISHED TRYING
MY STAR CRWISER YET 2

THAT THE EVIL
MR. GORBACHEV
HADNT COME
BACK YET.

   
 

  
   

 

   
        

 
   

ALONE AT THE BIG KREMLIN DESK.

  

 

 

   
   

   
  
 

    
   

fTwere was Twe-BuTTON fir ns enrRancin. HE uAD ) (Ano TucRe) (HELLO HELLO! I'M
THAT COULD DESTROY THE J | A WEAKNESS FOR BUTTONS. |] WAS THe
HOLE UNITED STATES. worune [fA US.CITIZEN, GET

 

HE WONDERED
IF THERE WAS
A SEPARATE

BUTTON Just
FOR THE US.
CONORESS

 

   
    
    
 
    
 
 
    
 

     
  

ME OUT OF HERE!

 

   
  
  
 
  
  

 

GOT SOME BAD NEWS FOR You
CAPTAIN. ANOTHER CRITICAL REPORT.
iT SAVS SHARING STAR WARS WITH
TWE RUSSIANS MIGHT NOT BE SUCH

  
  

  
  

IT ALSO SAYS THAT WHILE IT
MIGHT LOOK GOOD SUPERFICIALLY,
AFTER SPENDING BILLIONS AND
BILLIONS WE COULD WIND UP WITH
GREATER INSTABILITY THAN EVER.

THE CAPTAIN HAD)
TO THINK ABOOT
THAT

    
  

    
   
 

WAIT A MINUTE YoU SURE
THEY'RE NOT GETTING iT MixED UP
WITH MY ECONOMIC PROGRAM

   
 
   
  
 

    
  
   

 
 

THERE YOU ARE, MIKHAIL!
WOWD You LIKE TO TRY
REAGANOMICS NOW? J

 

 

110 S. Jefferson St.

 

 
 
 

Catering

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

  
 

   

 
     

 

 

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardwure
463-2242

 

 

 

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

 

 

   

HOUSE ba_

Rectaurani, ;

 

, 88

WILLSON-
WALKER]

ANNOUNCING
‘*The Thirty-Minute Lunch’”’

Featuring soup of the day, entree, and beverage.
Choose from entrees of fresh spinach salad with
bacon and walnuts, Chesapeake Bay crab cake sand-
wich, or a Six ounce rib eye steak.

Accommodating business people with business lunches.

Open For Lunch & Dinner, Tues. — Sat.,
11:30-2:30 & 5:30-10:00
30 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

 

 
  

 

|
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22?”
‘ee"ere
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special to The Phi

 

When Washington and Lee officials were studying the
costs of maintaining the school’s 24-hour library last
January, they could have gone to Luis Sa and found just-
ification for keeping the building open around-the-clock.

Perhaps few people on campus know Sa by name. But
almost everyone who has ever entered the library’s
main reading room during the past two years recognizes
him as the bespectacled, Brazilian student who is either
reclining with a book in one of the comfortable chairs or
poring over papers behind a reference-book fortress he
has erected on top of one of the round, wooden tables.

A thin student with short, wavy brown hair and a pre-
maturely receding hairline, Sa is also recognized by his
brightly colored clothes.

“‘T don’t like much of the [clothes] styles here,” Sa
said, clad in a lime-green pullover shirt, khaki-colored
pants and gray, high-topped sneakers with purple laces.
“T prefer colors, happy colors,” he said.

Since he entered W&L in the fall of 1983, the 22-year-
old exchange student from Rio de Janeiro has literally
lived almost half his life in the library. He estimates that
he spends at least 12 hours per day there.

“‘T just leave the library for my meals,”’ he said in his
soft, simple, somewhat hesitant English.

The son of a factory manager, Sa came to W&L to
study politics in a highly democratic society. While a
portion of his library time is spent on regular assign-
ments, much is spent on research papers.

“The thing I like most is to write papers,” said the
Robert E. Lee Research Scholar.

Sa said he prefers papers to tests because tests do not
allow a student enough time to think.

 

Luis Sa, a student from Brazil, Studies in the University Library

Brazilian exchange student uses
24-hour library to his advantage

 

 

By Eric 8. Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

He finds that the library is where he works best.

“‘T have very high standards to evaluate my work,”
said Sa, who will graduate in December because of cre-
dits he was able to transfer from 2!2 years of higher edu-
cation in Brazil.

He then plans to put his W&L education to good use as
a member of the Brazilian foreign service.

Sa is the only member of his family who has traveled
to the United States. During the summers, he visits his
parents, two older brothers and one younger sister in
Brazil. For his other vacations, he has visited Washing-
ton and New York, but prefers the beauty of Rio de
Janeiro.

While Lexington and Rio are very different — Rio had
a McDonald’s long before Lexington — Sa has not found
it overly difficult to adapt. He has made some friends

.here, and although he is often in the library, he always

spends his Saturday nights out at parties, movies or with
friends.

Most Brazilians Sa’s age listen to contemporary
American music, but he prefers European classical
music. Soccer is his favorite sport and he also enjoys
watching basketball. He said he cannot understand

baseball or football, two sports that seem to stop all the
time.

Sa said he has always found the W&L community
polite and friendly, and he has cherished his experience
here.

The most satisfying moment of his W&L career was
when he was named to Phi Beta Kappa. Sa said he was
proud because it reflected a confidence the University
had in him.

It also reflected his highly disciplined work in the
library, which has helped him maintain a grade point
average higher than 4.0.

4

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

Minister describes

 

cry of

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Rev. R. Neville Richardson, a
British and South African citizen who
spoke in the Law School Sunday and
Monday nights, said his greatest
sadness ‘‘is having to live where I
live.”’

“Everything you do is judged by
the fact that some will prosper while
others suffer,’’ Richardson said Sun-
day night in a speech titled ‘‘Being
the Church in South Africa.’’ His
Monday night speech, which drew
about 50 people, was ‘‘South Africa’s
Cry and the World’s Response.”’

Richardson gave a number of stati-
stics Monday night about South Afri-
can political policy.

South African whites account for 15
percent of the total population of
31,112,000. African blacks are the
huge majority of the country, com-
prising 73 percent.

People of mixed race are placed in
a category called coloured, which
makes up 9 percent of the country’s
people, Richardson said.

The remaining 3 percent are of
Asian or Indian origin.

South Africa’s present racial trou-
bles, not the first in the country’s
history, are a result of the policy of
legislated racism, or apartheid,
Richardson said

In 1936 the Land Act gave blacks 14
percent of South Africa’s territory
for homelands. This land is all that
blacks can own.

In 1961 South Africa left the British
Commonwealth and became a repub-
lic. A ‘‘resettlement’’ program began
moving blacks living in white areas
to the homelands. That program was
taken a step further in 1970 with the
Homestead Citizenship Act, which
required all blacks to live in the
homelands.

Richardson said the land set aside
for the blacks is not good for farming
and contains no gold or diamonds,
which form the basis for the South
African economy.

In the years since that act was
passed, the country has been racked
by unrest. In 1976 there was a revolt
in Soweto, in which black leader
Steve Biko died while in “police
care.”’

School boycotts in 1980 resulted in
65 deaths. South Africa declared a
state of emergency in July of this

Sout

 

 

 

 

 

R. NEVILLE RICHARDSON

year.

In 1983 the white government
began to make changes to try to calm
the unrest in the country. A new con-
stitution was passed that gave the
coloureds and Indians each a house
in the government. However, Rich-
ardson said, the government is struc-
tured so that even if the two
groups team up, they can not outvote
the whites.

Even with the concessions to those
racial groups, the vast majority of
the country — the African blacks —
are still denied a say in government.

Other ‘‘concessions’’ Richardson
described are the opening of restau-
rants and trains to blacks. But, he
said, most blacks are too poor to be
concerned with restaurants, and the
high cost of first class on trains
guarantees continued segregation.

Richardson charged the Rev. Jerry
Falwell with undermining the
church’s work in South Africa.
Falwell recently made a visit to
South Africa and caused an uproar
by calling Nobel Peace Prize winner
Bishop Desmond Tutu a “‘phony.”’

On the subject of boycotts, Rich-
ardson said, ‘‘They can be a very ef-
fective but very dangerous weapon.”’

Richardson did not support a com-
plete boycott of South Africa, saying
that people might be tempted to

Africa

leave the problem when they thought
it was solved.

Instead, Richardson gave exam-
ples of boycotts that “hurt where

hurt is needed.”’ Recently, New Zea. .

jand banned its rugby team from tra-
veling to South Africa, where rugby
is a passionate national pasttime,
Also, South Africa has not had a team
in the Olympics since 1960.

On economic sanctions, Richard-
son said, ‘‘No government can stand
by and watch its economy go down
the drain.”’

Richardson was asked if he could
have given his speech in South
Africa. He said he could have
because in his speech he did not
directly support sanctions against his
country.

Under broad South African laws,
any direct support of disinvestment
could result ina charge of treason.

Richardson remarked that many
people are surprised by South
Africa’s free press. But, he said,
while the press is free to criticize the
government politically, it can say
virtually nothing about such things
as police action and the military.

Speaking Sunday night of the chur-
ch’s role in South Africa, Richardson
gave seven virtues the church
must have in order to fight apar-
theid: truthfulness, responsiveness,
endurance, penitence, faithfulness,
unity and hopefulness.

At the end of his speech Sunday
night, Richardson said he “could
have had this address literally drip-
ping in blood.”’

Shunning that tactic, however,
Richardson said he tried to give a
truthful view of South Africa both
through the eyes of a citizen and a
minister.

Richardson said his greatest aspir-
ation is that ‘tone day we will see a
South Africa that is free and harmon-
ious.”’

Richardson said he enjoyed his
stay in the United States, adding that
he had gained about “‘about a pound a
day” and was wondering how he
would explain that to his wife.

While speaking in Alabama earlier
in his visit, Richardson was taken to
see an Alabama Crimson Tide foot-
ball game. He compared the enthu-
siasm at that game with South Afri-
cans’ passion for rugby.

Law, donation prompt access changes for handicapped

 

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

The wooden ramps that are spring-
ing up around campus are the result
of a federal law and a donation from
the father of a deceased, handicap-
ped student, according to Assistant to
the President Frank A. Parsons.

Washington and Lee has built the
ramps to comply with a federal law
that requires that institutions make
public places accessible to the handi-
capped.

Some of the funds to pay for the
ramps come from a donation from
the father of a handicapped student

who died after he graduated. Parsons
said he couldn’t reveal the donor or
the amount he gave.

A recent landscape architect’s
comprehensive study outlined where
ramps for stairs and curbs should be
placed to serve disabled people best.

Some of those places included the
Commerce School, Graham-Lees
dormitory, the Law School, the Uni-
versity Library, Howe Hall and du
Pont Hall.

Last year Anthony Cornealius, a
disabled student, took a group of
Buildings and Grounds engineers on
a walk around the campus and show-
ed them each place where he en-

countered difficulties getting in and
out of buildings, Parsons said.

Ramps have been built near Baker
dormitory and in front of the Law
School, and Parsons said ramps are
planned for the other locations.

‘Although a few places still remain
inaccessible, they will be corrected
over a short period of time,’’ Parsons
said.

Not only have ramps been installed
to accommodate the handicapped,
but a strobe light has been installed
in the room of a deaf freshman in
place of a doorbell.

The older buildings on campus, like

another problem. Since most of the
buildings on that section of the cam-
pus are historical landmarks, it
would be virtually impossible to in-
stall elevators and ramps in these
buildings.

“It’s like the case of the barn with
the leaky roof,’’ Parsons said. ‘‘When
it’s raining we do all we can to fix it,
but when it’s not it doesn’t real-
ly pose a problem.”’

The law does not state how hard or
easy it should be for a disabled stu-
dent to get to classes, but the classes
must be made accessible to the stu-
dent.

“In several cases throughout the
years we have relocated classes in
order to make these programs acces-
sible to the disabled students on cam-
pus,” Parsons said.

James L. Arthur, superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds, said the cost
for the wooden ramps that have been
built was approximately $75.

The permanent ramp to the back
door of the Commerce School cost
about $100,000, according to Parsons.

Arthur also said the wooden ramp
in front of the Law School will be
replaced with a cement one by the

Evan J. Kemp Jr., a 1959 graduate
who is executive director of the Disa-
bility Rights Center in Washington,
said building ramps for the handicap-
ped is helpful but not as important as

-overcoming the mental barriers that
exist between disabled and nondis-
abled persons.

Kemp is a staunch opponent of the
Muscular Dystrophy Association’s
telethons because they ‘‘demean the
disabled.”’

He said barriers need to be remov-
ed because they are society’s way of
saying to the disabled: ‘‘You’re not

 

 

 

 

Staff reports

 

Student Body Vice President Andrew Caruthers said
Tuesday at an Honor System symposium that use of a
false identification card by an underaged student to buy
alcohol would be a potential honor offense.

The statement came in response to a question at a
forum sponsored by Omicron Delta Kappa, the honor-
ary leadership organization. Attendance at the pro-
gram was mandatory for freshmen.

“‘] disagree with the law of 21,"’ Caruthers began after
asked the question by moderator David Lewis. “I think
it’s stupid.”

He pointed out that ‘the [Executive Committee]
doesn’t go out and look for honor violations’’ but that in
a case of use of a false identification card, ‘‘the EC will
consider it as a possible honor violation.”

“TI cannot predict the result,’ he added. “‘I would
refrain from using them because this is also a commu-
nity of trust.... I would refrain from that and I would
find upperclassmen to purchase it.”

Morgan Griffith, a lawyer from Salem who was the
EC’s senior law representative in 1981-82 and its vice
president from 1982-83, said Caruthers’ guarded re-
sponse showed the difference between different student
generations.

“If it was blatant that someone had used a false iden-
tification, I think our committee probably would have

found them guilty,”’ he said.

Another question raised at the symposium was:
“What if I tell my boyfriend I love him and I really

don’t?”’

 

 

those along the Colonnade, present

end of the year.

 

“If it’s me, you’re outta here,” said Waller T, Dudley,
an Arlington attorney who was student body president
in 1978-79.

“Where are you going to be next weekend”? is what I
want to know,”’ Caruthers added.

“Can we go now?”’ a young woman loudly asked her
companion.

Team to debate British style

Washington and Lee’s debate team will host an
audience-style debate with a touring British team
Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel

The topic for the debate will be ‘“‘This House Con-
demns U.S. Missiles in Great Britain.”’

Representing W&L will be freshman Bill Webb and
junior Rick Graves. Graves gained experience in Bri-
tish debating as a member of the team that travelled to
Great Britain last year. Webb has extensive experience
in high school topical debating.

The British team, which is touring about 20 schools in
the United States, will be represented by Michael Hall
of New College, Oxford, and David Lock of Jesus Col-
lege, Cambridge.

Professor’s article published

An article by assistant law professor Brian C
Murchison was published in the July issue of ‘‘Federal
Communications Law Journal.”

Titled ‘‘Misrepresentation and the FCC,” the article
studies the Federal Communications Commission's at-

NEWS BRIEFS
Fake identification cards called potential honor violations

titude toward individuals and companies that give it
false information in contests for lucrative broadcast
licenses. Murchison suggests the FCC has a contradic-
tory policy toward misinformation, threatening to pun-
ish it with disqualification from, *he airwarves, but at
the same time ‘bending over ba¢«wards to find that no
lies were ever told.”’

“As a result, lying to the government in order to ob-
tain a television license may be a risk some are not
afraid to take,” the article says.

Murchison received both his bachelor’s and his law
degrees from Yale University. He joined the law faculty
in 1982.

Davenport to deliver lectures

Guy Davenport, an award-winning poet, critic,
author and translator, will deliver the English Depart-
ment’s Glasgow endowment lectures, Tuesday through
Thursday afternoon.

Davenport, the Alumni Association Distinguished
Professor of English at the University of Kentucky, is
the author of two works of criticism, six books of trans-
lations, five books of poetry and seven collections of
short stories and novellas. He is also a book illustrator
anda painter.

Davenport's lectures will deal with the role of the
critic in literature. His Tuesday lecture is titled ‘‘The
Artist as Critic.” On Wednesday, he will lecture on
“The Scholar as Critic.’’ Thursday, ‘‘The Critic as Ar-
tist’’ will be the topic of his lecture

All three lectures will be at 4:30 p.m. in Rm. 327 of the

wanted here.”’

Commerce School Building.

Davenport will give a reading of his works Thursday
at 8:15 in Northen Auditorium in the University Li-
brary. All Glasgow lectures and readings are free.

The Glasgow Endowment is financed by a bequest
made in 1960 by Arthur Graham Glasgow “to promote
the art of expression by pen and tongue.” It is adminis-

tered by a faculty committee appointed by the Universi-
ty President.

Hodges named to board

Religion Professor Louis W. Hodges has been named
to the editorial board of the ‘Journal of Mass Media
Ethics.”’

A New publication sponsored by Brigham Young Uni-
versity and Utah State University, the ‘Journal of Mass
Media Ethics”’ will provide a forum for ideas on moral
developments and ethics education for both scholars
and media practitioners. The journal, which will pub-
lish its first issue next month, will attempt to bridge the
gap between academic and philosophical approaches to
ethics and the pragmatics of dealing with day-to-day
problems in the professions,

Since its inception in 1974, Hodges has directed W&L’s
distinctive program in applied ethics, “Society and the
Professions,’’ which is for pre-professional undergrad-
uate students in business, journalism, law and medi-
cine.

A native of Mississippi, Hodges received his bachelor
of arts degree from Millsaps College and both his bach-
elor of divinity degree and Ph.D. from Duke University.

 

 

Sear |

> gone

* mm

* .
eal

bs ?
+ tb
* €
©
=

e *
* ®
4
oa a4

a4 >
‘ +!
« ¢!

© ®
i
‘ ©
|

 

 

a +
¢ ‘
« ‘
1
e 5
1
© s
i
4 .
* 4
e 4
‘ s
. 4
‘ ‘
‘ a
‘ ‘
A 4
‘ i
4 1
4 i
« ‘
‘ 4
4 i
“
€
‘
*
as
‘ =

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 5

 

Jomino’s
charges 20¢
for checks

ty BERT PARKS
itaff Reporter

 

Pizza lovers can expect to pay 20
rents extra if they are writing a
theck to Domino’s.

In late June, Domino’s implement-
ed a policy of charging 20 cents for
payment by check to cover the cost of
bad checks and the cost of depositing
checks, said Domino’s manager Tim
Camden.

He added that the owners of the
Domino’s chain made the decision
and he has to enforce it.

A retailer loses between $5 and $20
when a check bounces, according to
assistant manager Lee Frazier and
Washington and Lee’s cold check
committee Chairman Peter Ben-
north. In addition, the bank levies its
own charge to Domino’s for deposit-
ing checks.

“I’ve delivered pizzas and had
three or four students chipping in on
one pizza, each writing a check,”
Camden said. ‘‘With that many
ehecks, we need the charge or we
lose money.”

Camden said he favored the 20 cent
charge over raising prices.
~ “Nobody would have said anything
‘if we had raised prices instead of ad-
ding a 20 cent charge,” he said.
“Nobody's going to go broke over 20
‘cents, but students can go to the bank
and get cashif it’s a problem.”’

Bennorth’s committee, formally
‘known as the Student Financial Rela-
tions Committee, covers students’
bounced checks for local merchants
‘and then can fine the students.

Domino’s receives about four or
five bad checks a week, Bennorth
‘said, and since most of its business is
,from college students, almost all
these checks are written by students.

Bennorth was glad to learn that the

sextra charge for a check to Domino’s
is not levied solely because of stu-
‘dents’ bad checks.

* Hestill isn’t happy about it, though

,~ he has paid the 20 cents too — but
he is ‘glad to see it wasn’t directed at
»students.”’

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Steve Losquadro takes a practice LSAT Tuesday ni ght

Former student’s larceny charge goes to grand jury

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

A grand larceny and breaking and
entering case involving former
Washington and Lee student Alex
Benedetto will go before the Rock-
bridge grand jury after witnesses at
a preliminary hearing Tuesday said
he broke into the Phi Kappa Sigma
fraternity house June 11.

In the same incident, Benedetto
pleaded guilty to charges of public
drunkenness and was fined $10.

Lexington District Judge Joseph E.
Hess dismissed arson charges filed
against Benedetto in a separate inci-
dent at the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
house because prosecutors were un-
able to present sufficient evidence.

The grand jury, which meets Nov.
4, will decide whether Benedetto will
be indicted on the charges of grand
larceny and breaking and entering.

Benedetto, a Pika, was a member
of the class of ’87 but quit school in
December of last year.

Two Virginia Military Institute
cadets said they were the only resi-

 

|| Frustration?

Would-be attorneys make
sacrifices for LSAT test

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

 

Three weeks of preparation and study will be put toa
test Saturday, when about 10 Washington and Lee
students will take the Law School Admissions Test.

Tonight some of the students will complete a course
designed to prepare them for the test. The course is
directed by the National Center for Educational Testing
and is taught by third-year law student John Cooley.

The class met Tuesday night to take a sample test,
designed to prepare the students to take the actual one.
The six sections of the test and the writing sample exer-
cise will take more than four hours to complete Satur-
day.

Is the LSAT just another admissions test? Not really.

“You reach a point of frustration where you want to
scream,”’ said dormitory counselor Ted LeClercg, a stu-
dent enrolled in the course. ‘‘It helps to scream, and I do
scream.” The course work is trying, according to senior
Dave Nave. He estimated that he spent about 12 to 14
hours a week attending the classes and studying the
LSAT material. By the time Saturday classes let out, he
said, ‘‘Everybody was so burned out that we couldn’t do
any more.”’

Bob Strickland said the class work in the LSAT course
was so demanding that he couldn’t do his regular assign-
ments even on days when the class didn’t meet.

Not only was the work difficult, but the time spent stu-
dving for the LSAT kept the students from activities like

regular course work, fraternity Rush and a social life.

In spite of the problems, students said the course was
helpful.

“It gives you organization,’’ Strickland said. ‘‘It fore-
ed me to prepare for the test. If I'd done it on my own, I’d
have blown it off until the last week.”

Specific questions and teaching techniques were also
beneficial. ‘‘The course gives you the correct approach
to each type of problem on the test,” Nave said.

“It mentally prepares you to deal with the mountain-
ous obstacle you’re up against,” LeClercq added.

One student said it was suggested to him and other stu-
dents that they find a quiet room, like in a motel, to sleep
in the night before the test. This didn’t seem like a good
idea to everybody, though.

“T don’t want to put myself in an unnatural environ-
ment like a motel room,’’ Nave said. ‘‘That would make
me uncomfortable. I'd be more at ease in my apart-
ment.”’

LeClercq agreed. ‘‘I think it’s more important to be in
familiar surroundings,” he said. ‘‘That’s more relax-
ing.”

Cooley said the test results, along with a student’s
grade point average, are the most important factors
considered in the law school admissions process.

The 32-hour course, which costs $295, runs for three
weeks before the testing date. It met Tuesday and
Thursday evenings and Saturday mornings last month.

The NCET schedules the test four times throughout
the academic year.

If you’re up for it, the next testing date is in December.

dents of the Phi Kap house June 11,
when they found Benedetto climbing
down a fire escape with a bag filled
with $348 worth of sweaters.

Before leaving Lexington for the
weekend of June 9, cadets James F.
Bean and John C. Nagle IV testified,
they locked and secured the house at
11 N. Jefferson St., where they were
living while attending summer
courses at VMI.

Their testimony listed the follow-
ing events:

When they returned about 11 p.m.
Sunday, they found several doors on

the second and third floors forced
open. A search of the rooms indicated
that no property was missing, so they
went to the first floor to study.

About 1:30 a.m. Nagle heard noises
from the third floor and saw Benedet-
to through the railing on the fire
escape. The defendant was carrying
a bag of clothing, according to Nagle.

When Officer Gordon P. Joines ar-
rived, he found Benedetto with ‘‘a big
knife strapped on the side of his right
leg and a strong odor of alcohol about
his person.”

In court Tuesday, sophomore Paul

Wiman, owner of the clothing that
was found in Benedetto’s bag, testi-
fied that the clothing was worth
about $348.

Benedetto’s lawyer, Robert N.
Joyce Jr., asked Hess to reconsider
the value of the clothing, calling
Wiman’s estimate ‘“‘shaky at best.”
He also asked that the court reduce
the charge to one of petty larceny,
which involves property valued at up
to $200.

Hess denied the requests, saying
Wiman’s judgment was ‘‘as good or
as bad as mine.”’

   
 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

._ GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main 463-7969
Open 9-5, Mon.-Fri. and 9-12 Sat.

Advertise in The Phi 463-8581

Se giee ow

 

 

 

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main Street
‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

” REDKEN

a, a a ul

 

 

 

 

 

fone om

Located at 136 Varner Lane
directly behind Leggetts
with plenty of parking

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in.

arte tga errant tne rn

Marie's Kain. Fiylers

By Appointment 463-9588 Old Main St. Mall
‘ Lexington, VA oe

¢ Cannondale accessories

¢ Camp trails packs

¢ Complete repair service

¢ Road or trail route information

¢ Motobecane
¢ Shogun

e Ross

e Eureka tents

aeeee
NS ae

Robin« Peggy Marie
LPL A A) A) A) A ) ED ()

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chinese and
American Cuisine

 

 
  
 
 
 

pence
qite Front Ma rhe;

‘ A : 0 Exotic Cocktails _ its Bee 443-2105 DI IKE
LOKA W K Conroe Saeasee 167 S. Main St., 463-3106
409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450 Available

 

   

703-463-9342

~

THE FUQUA
SCHOOL
OF BUSINESS

MBA

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke
University offers one of the finest available
opportunities for unsurpassed professional
management training. We are interested in
men and women who have proven aca-
demic, leadership, and social abilities.

Open Tuesday through Suaday
Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10
Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Stop by and open up a charge
account for all your grocery needs.
This Week’s Specials are:
¢ Kraft Mayonnaise

¢ Cheer Detergent
¢ Coor’s Beer

-

 

 

 

oe

 

  

 

 

4
Qt. Jar/ $]

79
42 Oz. Box/ $]

59
6 Pks. & 12 Oz. Bottles/ $2

15 Oz. can 3 *1

 

 

 

60606080656 £864 6%

EM ec
a

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

  

 

 

 
 
 

 

A Sunday Place -

 

 

 

 

‘ 463-3614
e / :
a And Midweek, Too: Michael Hostetler
ql 4 Director of Admissions
‘i Good Luck Generals a The Lexington Presbyterian Church
K 4 welcomes you. Our Sunday morning col- rt
a lege class meets at 9:45. Worship is at 11. or the Fuqua School
; g

4 Hewers For AU Occasions a . ill b

* 5 : Genie ss lie: will be on campus
1 “OW OW. Powers un f Join the choir. Attend fellowship din
a es or 8 ners. Use the library. A friendly congre- Thursda Ootcher 24
al : gation and two ministers (Randy Harri- Ys
a son and Sally Robinson) want to know ;
a THE FLOWER CENTER : you and serve you. Appointment information may be obtained

EXINGTON. VIRGINIA so : :

, a a” a ‘“‘Lex Pres” has been on the corner of by contacting:
pi / Main and Nelson Streets for 200 years,
‘ Surprise your Homecoming date with a corsage : aga program of outreach is always Office of Career Development
' — $1.00 off with coupon. , eoiet and Placement
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

 

Scholars
question

Gustafson

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

 

Most of the scholars who came to
Washington and Lee this weekend
were empathetic with James M. Gus-
tafson’s radical ideas about theology
and ethics, said Harlan Beckley,
associate professor of religion and
one of the organizers of the sym-
posium

But, Beckley said, ‘‘No one simply
agreed with his ideas. All raised criti-
cal questions.”

Paul Ramsey, a professor of reli-
gion at Princeton University, en-
gaged Gustafson in what Beckley
called a heated exchange at a final
question-and-answer session.

From the audience, Ramsey
questioned Gustafson’s abandon-
ment of Christian tradition. In an
emotional five-minute response,
Gustafson said many people possess
a sense of natural piety but can not be
reached through the language of the
church.

Gustafson’s theology places a
great deal of emphasis on the
sciences. His book, ‘‘Ethics from a
Theocentric Perspective,” says peo-
ple must realize that the whole of
creation is not for the benefit of man.

One scholar, Robert N. Bellah,
questioned whether Gustafson was
simply a critic of the fundamentals of

culture. Bellah is Ford Professor of:

Sociology and Comparative Studies
and vice chairman of the Center for
Japanese Studies at the University of
California at Berkley.

Discussion following the lectures of
nine scholars focused mainly on the
theoretical rather than on specific
issues, Beckley said.

President John D. Wilson welcom-
ed about 180 theologians, philoso-
phers, ministers, sociologists, law-
yers and physicians to the sympo-
sium Thursday afternoon. Dean of
the College John W. Elrod moderated
the question-and-answer session Sat-
urday.

The symposium was sponsored by
the Department of religion and by the
Institute for the Advanced Study of
Religion at the University of Chicago
Divinity School.

Beckley said video and audio tapes
of each session are available in the
University Library.

 

 

 

1

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office clean-up

A workman Cleans a side of the Lexington Post Office this week as part of
the periodic maintenance of the 72-year-old building. Postmaster Robert G.
Moore said the work will go on for another two weeks and will include spray-
ing sealant on the building to keep the dirt out,

New minority affairs dean }
looks to broaden horizons:

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

One of several new faces on the
faculty at Washington and Lee this
year is that of Anece McCloud, who
fills the slot of director of minority af-
fairs.

As McCloud points out, the title of
the office has been changed to the
more-encompassing ‘‘associate dean
of students for minority affairs.’ As
a result, McCloud will, in her own
words, ‘‘work with all students, with
an emphasis on minority students.”

McCloud replaces John White, who
was fired at the end of last year by
President John D. Wilson.

Originally from North Carolina,
McCloud comes to W&L with a great
deal of experience in her field.

During the past nine years, she
served as director of minority affairs
at the University of Nebraska after
having served as assistant registrar
there.

McCloud said that during her
tenure as director of minority af-
fairs, her department “accomplished
a great deal.’’ Minority enrollment at
Nebraska doubled over that period.
period.

McCloud’s functions at her old post
were with minority students’ matric-
ulation, advising minority students
on academic and social concerns and
generally helping minority students
adjust to a new environment.

The desire to ‘‘broaden horizons”’
led McCloud from Nebraska to W&L’

 

 

 

By Eric $8. Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi,

Anece McCloud in her Payne Hall office :

and she anticipates a much more
diversified role here.

Thus far, McCloud has termed her
job as ‘‘busy”’ though she is quick to
add, “‘I’m enjoying it very much.”

Upon arrival, McCloud was involv-
ed in training dorm counselors and
meeting minority students as well as

becoming acquainted with the newly
renamed Minority Student Associa
tion.

McCloud said she was “impressed
by the people of the community, and
especially with the students — they
seem to have a good feeling about
education.”

a
'

Candidates for governor are walking narrow political path

 

By R.D. GERSH
The Associated Press

 

RICHMOND — The race for gover-
nor in Virginia is a campaign waiting
for something to happen.

Republican Wyatt Durrette and
Democrat Gerald Baliles are gener-
ating neither heat nor emotion as
they walk a narrow aisle of mid-
stream conservatism that leaves lit-
tle room for risk.

“Our political culture restricts
their room for movement. You have
to stay pretty close to the norm in this
state,’ said Thomas Morris, a gov-
ernment professor at the University
of Richmond who keeps close tabs on
Virginia politics.

‘And both candidates are pursuing
the traditional practice of going right
down the middle. That political cul-
ture restricts the manueverability of
the candidates.”

Last week, both candidates used
surrogates, former Gov. Mills God-
win for Durrette and Richmond Del.
Frank Hall for Baliles, to argue their
man was more in step with the
majority of Virginia.

Only two of the six statewide can-
didates sought a labor endorement.
Only one, L. Douglas Wilder, the De-
mocratic nominee for lieutenant gov-
ernor and the candidate with the
least to lose, got it.

“In a sense a great deal of the poli-
tical spectrum has been closed off,”’
Morris said. ‘‘You can’t accept an en-

 

HOMECOMING
CONCERT ’$9

AT
WIASHINGTON § LEE

FRIDAY, OCT 11-8:30

PRESENTED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES

BOARD AND CELLAR DOOR CONCERTS

TICKETS: $8.00 @ DOOR: $6.00 @ BOOKSTORE*
“IN ADVANCE)

 

 

 

 

 

dorsement from labor. You can’t talk
about tax increases and you can’t
talk anything but a hard line on law
and order.”

Wilder, the senior black state legis-
lator, has mentioned his endorse-
ment from the Fraternal Order of
Police more often than the AFL-CIO
backing.

The campaign also lacks the star
quality that Democrat Charles S.
Robb brought to his successful guber-
natorial race in 1981 or the fast-
draw comments Marshall Coleman
brought to the opposition.

‘Neither one of them captures the
imagination. They just simply don’t
have that spark or pizazz that is real-
ly necessary to excite,” said’ Larry
Sabato, a University of Virginia gov-

Health center

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Coeducation has prompted many
changes in the Student Health Ser-
vice this year, including renovations
to provide privacy for women and a
name change, according to head
nurse Josephine H. McCown.

The infirmary section of the health
service was renovated this summer
to accommodate both men and
women. :

“It used to be two big wards, but it
is divided into compartments,”’ Mc-
Cown said. One room can house five
men and another has room for two
women.

The name. change from the Infir-

ernment professor who also special-
izes in Virginia elections.

“On one hand, we’ve got two very
competent candidates and either one
of them would make a good governor.
But when all is said and done, for a
campaign to be interesting, the can-
didates have to say something inter-
esting, and we’re still waiting.”’

On however many issues the can-
didates differ — and they are not all
that many — they are similar men.

“They are both white male subur-
ban lawyers and may differ from one
another on specific issues but not all
that much.” Sabato said. ‘‘My guess
is if you could set up two parallel
universes and make one governor in
one and the other governor in the
other, 95 percent of their decisions

.

would be the same.” 4
The candidates also know each
other too well. They faced each other
in the 1981 race for attorney generab.

“It’s like two fighters who have.
fought each other often. They know
so well their ability to counterpunch
they are afraid to throw a knockout
punch,” Morris said.

The race could get racier if a can
didate starts slipping and is forced tg
take risks that could push him out of
the coveted narrow center into the
wings if his party. ®

Durrette so far has resisted report-
ed efforts by more conservative
forces in his camp, led by Godwin, tq
forego generally positive media ad-
vertising for harder-hitting and moré
negative commercials. >

gets new name, services’.

mary to the Student Health Service
was made ‘‘because we would like to

promote the whole concept of health
care rather than just being a place to
go when you get sick or injured.”

As part of this idea, the health ser-
vice is distributing literature and
posters to stress the idea of ‘‘well-
ness, a positive state of health, which
involves the health of the whole per-
son, body, mind and spirit,” accord-
ing to one of the service’s handouts.

Also, the health service is making
more information available on var-
ious health topics and new services.

“The newest things in lab work are
a pregnancy test and a 10-minute
strep throat culture test’? McCown
said,

Another registered nurse, Mary
Schambach, has been added to the

 

ID

 

 

 

 

 

 

Corsages -
with care!

Florist to the Homestead
103 N. Jefferson
Lexington
463-9841

 

eS

 

 

 

 

.

staff for night duty, McCown said.

McCown believes a record number,
of students — 82 — went to the Health
Service on Monday. ’

“We're really busy for this time of

year,” she said. >

Programs on health topics, includ-
ing birth control information sessions
offered by the local health depart+
ment and an alcohol program for the
upcoming Alcohol Awareness Week,
are in the planning stages. ’

“T think alcohol’s a very bad pro+"*

blem here,’’ McCown said.

The Student Health Service, lo-
cated in the basement of Gilliam’
dormitory, is open 24 hours a day,
with a registered nurse always on du-
ty. :

    
 
 
 
 
 
  

Get your
~ message to
1,500 students
through
The
Ring-tum Phi

463-8581

gaegggggeangonnnnnnngnnNnngnne

 

 

Phase IL] Integrated 250 |
Watt Amplifier, 7 Band Con- |
trols Stereo, Graphic |
Equalizer with Frequency
Spectrum Display.

$6995 w/installation available

a use to be $219.95 i
5-day in car satisfaction or money

refunded” Eastern Distributing {*
463-9703 after 6 p.m.

 

Stockbroker
Trainee:
Opportunity in Virginia
Beach, Richmond or Wash-
ington D.C. area [please

specify] for hardworking,

enthusiastic
Send resume to:
P.O. Box 8814
Virginia Beach, VA 23450

individual.

t

Lo eee =

FOF at 9 oo Rg eR Oe ©

* *

*

*

* ~*

“mk

~
nee

Jobs

Continued from Page 1

 

seniors, he hopes to see many under
classmen present to take advantage
of the insight they might gain into
possible careers or fields of study

The 11 panels will include profes

 

Career Day schedule

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 7

Library

 

Continued from Page |

 

“unfortunate” because now ‘“‘there
won't be that interaction between
W&L students and VMI cadets.”

“I think it'll add to the misunder
standings and -misconceptions bet

work sionals from the fields of health care, Health care 3215 ween W&L students and VMI
tn : : : government, hospitality, chemistry : Gaines said that while “it’s not cadets,’ he added.
This is the second year the Univer- Government I: Senior Sandy Whann took a differ-

sity has sponsored the program. Last
year’s Symposium was geared to bus-
iness, while this year’s has been
designed to appeal to a wider range
of individuals by including such
careers as chemistry and biology.

Placement Adviser Stephen P.
Bredin has been assisted in planning
the conference by seniors John Hen-
schel and Chris Komosa, both of
whom worked on the symposium last
year.

‘“‘We were extraordinarily pleased
with last year’s results and hope that
the students this year will take ad-
vantage of this opportunity to make
contacts,’’ Henschel said.

Komosa said that although the con-
ference is designed primarily for

and biology, advertising and public
relations, computers and telecom
munications, sales and marketing,
real estate and development, com
mercial banking, investment bank
ing and financial services, and jour-
nalism and media

Corporation representatives will
discuss their companies and their
roles in industry, and what they look
for in prospective employees.

Each panel will be presented at 2
p.m. and at 7 p.m. The panels will be
approximately an hour in length and
will be followed by a question and
answer session

A W&L professor from the appro-
priate department will moderate the
discussions

 

Hospitality
Chemistry/Biology

Advertising/Public relations
Sales/Marketing
Real estate/development

Commercial banking

Journalism/Media

7 o'clock

Computer science/Telecommunications 2 0’clock and 4:30

Investment banking/Financial services 3:15 and 7 o’elock

2 o’clock

2 o’clock and 4:30

2 o’clock and 4:30

3:15 and 7 o’clock

20’clock and 4:30

3:15 and 7 o’clock

 

 

Washington and Lee’s responsibility
to provide space for cadets,”’ ‘‘at the
same time, their feelings are a bit
hurt.”’

He said the University Library’s
appeal to cadets was understand-
able

“You've got air conditioning and
good lights and comfortable seating
and it was an opportunity to be away
from it all for a while.’

He said the VMI library is avail-
able to the W&L community at any
time until “Taps” at 11:30 p.m. “We
have things you all don't have
and vice versa,”’ he said, citing the
Preston Library’s extensive engi-
neering collection

Student Body President John
Lewis said he felt the change was

ent view. “I think it’s awesome,” he
said. ‘It was literally a problem to
find a room to study.... They used to
cluster around the audio-visual
area.”

Lt. David B. Spears of Fairfax, the
president of VMI’s first class, said
the response at the Institute has been
“outrage.”

“Basically we feel it was kind of a
slap in our faces,” he said, adding
that cadets have been asking him,
“Why doesn’t W&L want us over
there?”’ and saying ‘‘We haven't
done anything wrong.”’

Spears said the Corps would re-
spect the rules. ‘It’s vour school,” he
said. ‘‘Here at VMI your student
body is welcome.”

 

fp & B Uffece Supply

RT STATIONARY GIFTS

Southern
Inn

Welcome

Students
Serving breakfast, lunch

AIDS victim
Hudson, 59,

eulogized

Valley True Value Hardware

 

23 WEST WASHINGTON STREET * LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

a
L
i
a
g TELEPHONE: (703) 463-3432
€
&
a
i

HARD

 

 

 

 

and ype for over Extra 10% Off In Stock Items Hardware, Paint & Related Items
‘ , years When You Present This Ad. ae
By The Associated Press Main Street, Lexington Sale Sl ee a St. Mon, - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00
LOS ANGELES — Actor Rock 463-3612 HO a EO Es UT ARE A RE mie cera

 

 

Hudson was a ‘‘white knight in shin-
ing armor’’ whose courage in ac-
knowledging before he died that he
had AIDS may be the catalyst that

spurs worldwide efforts to find a

cure, colleagues say.

Hudson, 59, who starred in 62 films,
including the epic ‘‘Giant,” and in
such television hits as “McMillan
and Wife” and ‘Dynasty,’ died at
home in his sleep yesterday morning
and was cremated, publicist Dale
Olson said.

“Please God, he has not died in
vain,” said Elizabeth Taylor, his co-
star in ‘“‘Giant”’ and co-host with Burt
Reynolds of a gala AIDS benefit last
month to which Hudson donated
$250,000.

Hudson’s last public statement was
read at the benefit:

“T am not happy that I am sick. I
am not happy that I have AIDS. But if

. that is helping others, I can, at least,

know that my own misfortune has

had some positive worth.”’

Taylor said yesterday: ‘I love
him, and he is tragically gone.”

Hudson’s wish was that donations
be made to the American Foundation
for AIDS research in lieu of flowers
and because he did not want a funer-
al, Olson said.

Producer-director Ross Hunter,
who worked with Hudson on such
films as ‘‘Pillow Talk’”’ and ‘‘Magnifi-
cent Obsession,’ said he spent most
of Tuesday with Hudson and that the
actor had been mostly unconscious in
his last days.

| “Stardom never changed him,”
' Hunter said, weeping throughout a
telephone interview. ‘‘He never
realized how truly great he was.

“He gave the world so much. He
was the white knight in shining ar-
mor. In all the years I have known
him, he has never said an unkind
word about anybody. I shall miss him
more than anyone will know.”’

“Life is eternal, and I know I will
see him again,” said Doris Day, who
co-starred with Hudson in romantic
comedies like ‘Pillow Talk’ and
“Send Me No Flowers.”

In July, Hudson went to Paris for
treatment and was hospitalized after
collapsing at a hotel there. He came
home July 30 for his final hospitaliza-
tion at UCLA Medical Center, where
he was released Aug. 24. He died at 9
a.m. yesterday, and his physician,
Dr. Rexford Kennamer, was sum-
~ moned, Olson said.

' Kennamer pronounced him dead,
but the cause of death was not releas-
ed, Olson said, Kennamer’s office
said he was not available for com-
ment.
r AIDS, or acquired immune defi-
ciency syndrome, attacks the body’s
immune system, making it unable to
,  Tesist disease.

Many of Hudson’s friends said it
' . was his condition that drew a na-
. tional response to AIDS. As of Mon-
©, day, the National Centers for Disease
+ ¢ Control said there have been 13,611
“ AIDS victims, 6,944 of whom died. No

one has recovered from the disease.

Hudson’s autobiography, ‘‘My
Story,” will be published by William
Morrow, spokeswoman Sherry Arden
Said yesterday in New York.

ea
ous Bud eise er f
ewer whic h costs so much to: no brang » ~~

wood Aging produces a tas),

u will find in no othe, beep ;
Qa

John D. Eiland, Your
Local Budweiser
Wholesaler Is Pleased

To Introduce

J. J. Buquet
As Its Young Adult Coordinator
For The W&L Campus.
Please Feel Free To Contact J. J.
At 463-2191 For Information

 

Co

Concerning All
Your Party Needs.

| CBN to broadcast
+ Hudson show

 

‘l By The Associated Press

 

VIRGINIA BEACH The Chris-
«# tian Broadcasting Network, channel
2on the Lexington cable system, says
it will air an episode of a new Doris
«— Day series in which the late actor
Rock Hudson appears
1 CBN officials decided to broadcast
*}. the program after Hudson, 59, died
»}. Wednesday in Los Angeles. He had
been suffering from acquired im
mune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS
Hudson, who gave his last public
performance when he taped the pro
“gram June 18, will appear on “Doris
+ Day’s Best Friends” at 7 p.m. EDT
\. Oct. 13

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. ¢ ST. LOUIS

-

 

©
ae

 
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

 

 
   

*

ww ta ee ie

ae a!

ee

YS ett

we
a

 

 

 

 

The Generals’ defense breaks through to trap Centre’s Bill Kenyon

Ruggers split first games,
face Tech squad Saturday

Staff report

The Washington and Lee rugby
club split its opening contests of the
1985 fall season, defeating the Uni-
versity of Richmond Law squad 23-15
on Sept. 21 and losing to Mary Wash-
ington 15-8 last Saturday in Lexing-
ton.

The Richmond contest was an up-
and-down affair with W&L taking an
early 12-0 lead on tries by captain
David Arthur and P.J. lerardi. The
law team came back in the latter
part of the first half to bring the score
to 16-9 by halftime.

The W&L ruggers stiffened when
they had to in the second half and a
late-game three-pointer from Bill

 

Jones sealed the victory.
Fall view
Staff report

 

Sixteen men are trying to earn a
spot on a team that last year finished
eighth in the nation, won its confer-
ence and ran up 14 wins over such
notables as Virginia Tech and
Emory.

It is a task that could be more diffi-
cult this year than it was last year.

Simply put, the 1986 Generals may
‘be a stronger squad than the 1985 ver-
sion. W&L lost only one starter from
last year’s team (all-American Andy
Haring). The five returning letter-
men are all 1985 Old Dominion Athle-
tic Conference champions and two

Arthur was pleased with the team’s
first-game play. ‘‘With just one week
of practice our team was a little out
of shape. The first game jitters seem-
ed to affect everyone. Everyone is
enthusiastic about the victory,
though.”’ he said.

That enthusiasm was not enough to
get W&L the victory in its second out-
ing. Mary Washington, clearly bene-
fiting from having a coach (W&L
does not have a coach), were too
much for W&L at the end of the
game, Arthur said.

“It was close all the way up until
the end,’’ he said. ‘‘The second part
of the second half we ran out of gas.
We weren't fit.”

Arthur and Jones again led the

W&L scoring effort. Arthur also cited
the play of Jake Squiers, Earl Gla-
zier, P.J. lerardi and Nick Berents.

The team captain and club presi-
dent stressed the team’s need to get
in shape, especially in view of its
game this Saturday at Virginia Tech,
a squad Arthur called ‘‘the best team
in the state.”

He said W&L should have a shot at
the Tech squad, but ‘‘this is probably
the toughest game on the schedule
this year and the toughest W&L has
had in at least the last four years.”’

Arthur encouraged all those inter-
ested in rugby to join the ruggers at
practice on Mondays, Wednesdays
and Thursdays on the Law School
field.

yV4enoug

WOne touchdown:
h to down

stymied Centre

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee football
team’s second game of the season
was similar in many respects to its
initial effort two weeks ago. Both
games featured outstanding efforts
by the General’s defensive squad
contrasted with solid, but turnover
marred play by the offensive team.

There was one extremely impor-
tant difference, however, between

 

the two games. This time Washington
and Lee walked off the field with a 7-3
tally over Centre College. The win
evens the W&L record at 1-1.

The Colonels opened the scoring in
the second period with a 26-yard field
goal. Neither team scored before the
end of the second quarter and Centre

took a three-point lead into the lock-
er room.

Then, in a fourth-and-five situation
late in the third period, quarterback
Jon Thornton hit Chris Bleggi for 27
yards and a touchdown, B.J. Sturgill
added the extra point and the
Generals took a 7-3 lead into the
fourth quarter. The win was sealed
when defensive back Scott Hender-
son intercepted Centre quarterback
Mike Couchot with only 30 seconds
left in the game.

W&L’s offense doubled the Col-
onels in time of possession, and gain-
ed 77 more yards than Centre, in-
cluding 100 yards on 21 carries by
recently returned tailback Kevin
Weaver. But turnovers plagued W&L
once again. They coughed up the ball
four times (two fumbles, two inter-
ceptions). It was only the impressive
play of the defense that kept the Col-
onels from capitalizing on the
miscues.

Coach Fallon sees the W&L turn-
over problem in a practical sense.
“Anytime you have to live by the
pass, there is a greater chance of
turnover. You risk the interception,
there’s the chance that your quarter-
back might be blindsided and fumble
the ball. That’s just something that
you have to accept when you pass the
ball.”’

But can the defense continue to
hold the opponent out of the end zone

 

or will they eventually “‘burn out”
from the strain of having to contin-
ually deal with the turnovers? “A
good defense will not ‘burn out,’ ”
said Fallon, ‘they will accept the
challenge and work harder at it. I
don’t see any problem with our
defense, they’re a bunch of guys who
are very hungry and who have a lot of
character, They look at it as a chal-
lenge.”’

The Generals’ next game is Satur-
day in Ashland against Old Dominion
Athletic Conference foe Randolph-
Macon. The Yellow Jackets return
one of the strongest squads to the
ODAC, led by sophomore running
back Remon Smith and wide receiver
Keith Gilliam.

Fallon has great respect for his
foes this weekend.

“Randolph-Macon has a_ good,
experienced defense and a very po-
tent offense. [Tim] Landis is a
talented passer and Gilliam is a
great receiver, who is dangerous

from any point on the field. They also |,
have a great running back in Remon |

Smith,” Fallon said.
The key for the Generals, Fallon
explained, is to ‘eliminate offensive

mistakes and give Randolph-Macon |

a good football game.”

SIDELINES: The W&L defense
allowed Centre only 8 passing
yards....R-M has a 2-1 record, includ-

ing a Sunday win over Iona....W&L |

game will be R-M’s first conference
tilt....Generals lead series with the
Yellow Jackets 17-14-2....Last year R-
M defeated W&L 49-9 as all-Ameri-
can quarterback Cody Dearing threw
three touchdowns....Game will be
broadcast by WLUR-FM (91.5) be-
ginning at 1:20 p.m.

 

¢ a ee)

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L and Mary Washington ruggers struggle for the ball Saturday

for Franke is promising

starters, sophomores David McLeod
and Chris Wiman, earned all-Ameri-
ca status at Chris Wiman, earned all-
America status at last year’s na-
tional championships.

Jack Messerly, one of the returning
starters, believes this year’s compe-
tition for the top spots on the team is
much tougher than last year’s owing
to the extra year of experience that
last year’s young group (four of the
starting six in 1985 were sophomores
or younger ) now has.

So far in the team’s fall workouts,
head coach Gary Franke said only
one freshmen should break into the
W&L starting lineup, as opposed to
the three that earned starting roles

last season. Franke said he believes
that Bobby Matthews will greatly
contribute to the W&L program dur-
ing his first season.

Last weekend, W&L traveled to
Harrisonburg for a quadrangular
meet at James Madison. The Gen-
erals won one of their three matches
on the weekend, defeating George
Washington (6-3) and losing to Guil-
ford (5-4) and the hosts (7-2).

Tuesday, W&L traveled to Lynch-
burg, traditional ODAC foe, and beat
the Hornets. The win was all them
ore impressive as the Generals ac-
complished the feat minus starters
Mize, McLeod and Adams.

Franke said the fall schedule pro-

vides intercollegiate experience for
as many players as possible (some-
thing he cannot do in the spring).
Also, he said he gets a better idea of
his players’ abilities to perform in
match conditions. He noted that not
all players who play practice match-
es well, play well in an intercolle-
giate match.

This weekend, the Generals host
the W&L Fall Classic. Teams from
Virginia Tech, Ohio University and
Atlantic Christian College will par-
ticipate in the two-day flight-format
tournament. Competition will be held
in four flights of singles and two
flights of doubles and 32 players are
expected to compete.

Polo doused by Richmond in finals again.
Southern League play this weekend

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team finished second in the Vir-
ginia State Championships, losing in
the finals to their weekly nemesis,
the University of Richmond. The
Generals’ record now stands at 6-5.

The Generals had little difficulty
reaching the finals, defeating op-
ponents Virginia Commonwealth
University 26-5 and Lynchburg Col-
lege 27-5.

The Generals’ smooth sailing ship
ran aground against the Spiders,
however, 13-4, in a match reminis-
cent of the Generals’ 16-6 loss to Rich-

mond in the W&L Fall Classic.

Though they were playing to win,
the Generals’ primary goal against
Richmond, according to head coach
Page Remillard, was not to be beaten
by as wide a margin as in the pre
vious meeting

While the margin was lessened,
once again Richmond dominated the
team from Lexington.

Remillard was objective about the
team’s position in the tournament
“We are just a better team than Com-
monwealth and Lynchburg. Similar
ly, Richmond is a better team than
we are. We are either blowing our op
ponents out or being blown out.”’

Remillard commented on the over
all weekend, ‘I was pleased with the
weekend. We are improving and
could be one of the best W&L teams
ever by the end of the year. We are
young, but we have been playing one
of the most difficult schedules in
W&L history.”

In W&L’s effort to improve upon
performances against Rich
mond, they will be altering their of
fense in an effort to force the Spiders
to change their defense, which Rem
illard hopes will, in the end, decrease

past

‘the mistakes made by W&L

Finishing behind W&L’s “A” team
with an impressive third-place finish

was W&L’s ‘‘B” team. The team saw
many shining performances includ-
ing those of Moose Herring, Chris
Westergaard, and Matthew Brady

“Those young players are our
future and the experience they
receive on the ‘‘B”’ team will pay off
later,’ Remillard said.

This weekend the Generals travel
to George Washington University for

the first round of the Southern
League Tournament

Strong competition for the
Generals will likely come from

George Washington as well as Rich-
mond, and as Remillard pointed out,

If we are only concerned with Rich
mond, we could end up third.”

 

 

enn
i b

y John V. Lowe

 

 

 

-. @®.

 

 

A At ne

pl

 

ieee

He a a i ee ee

~.

 

#
d
:
=
‘
,
;
4
4
’ i
i
J

 

 
ae

f
E

;
1

f
%

t FPO IH EOI IE III III III IK HII III II KIKI KKK KK

 

 

 

 

 

x
*

Bu

with boosterism

 

 

 

Attitude change

is real problem

...It’s so bad in college sports that
Sports Illustrated is telling the
NCAA how to run its railroad. The
NCAA took the right initial steps in
June at its special university
presidents’ convention when the pre-
sent strict guidelines were installed.
SI is saying — and we all have to
agree — that if we’re going to take a
couple of steps in the right direction,
why not go all the way?

The suggestions in SI are a start and should be genuinely considered
by the NCAA. (They include an emphasis on education, a tie between
number of scholarshins received and number of graduated scholar-
ship athletes, and an outlawing of boosters offering money to college
athletes.) But something more must be done.

It might be difficult for us Division III purists to understand how big
money from the outside has come to take such a place in the college
game, but the sad fact is that it has. Winning has surmounted any
sense of what college education, in or out of the classroom, is intened-
ed to be. Only such a frame of reference (win at any cost) can explain
these comments from Richard Lowe, one of the nabbed Texas Chris-
tian boosters:

“What we did was a stupid mistake. We shouldn’t have done it but
we did. We did it because it was obvious that everyone else was doing
it and we were getting our butts kicked....””

With the rash of accusations criss-crossing the Southwest Con-
ference in the past week, there seems to be little doubt that ‘‘everyone
else was doing it.’’ What’s critical to the NCAA’s next move (next
week in Denver) is to develop legislation that is aimed at stripping the
college game down to its roots. Ultimately, that means examining the
reason for the athletic scholarship and whether that two-edged sword
is a controllable entity.

There are, of course, those who say the athletic scholarship is the
root of all evil and that the Division III philosophy is the only one that
works. Not so fast. The financial aid boondoggles some Division III in-
stitutions are able to pull off would make the most arrogant oilman-
booster blush.

TIME
OUT...

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

» .No, the real malday is an attitude problem. It’s an attitude that you

cah see every so often here at W&L. ‘‘If they’re not winning, then ob-
viouSly they’re doing something wrong,” would be the sentiment, I
believe.

Getting rid of such an attitude is an impossibility. But in the end, the
goal of the NCAA has to be to return college athletics to a place where

to W&L assistant athletic director Chuck O'Connell. Good to see quali-
ty rewarded...

...Back on the Colonnade, we’re still looking for the W&L offense.
Believe me, it’s there. Trip to Ashland will be a stern task for the
Generals, especially defensively. A strong performance from the ex-
plosive W&L offense spells upset here...Polo players must be seeing
Spiders (Richmond) in their sleep. Spiders have been tough, but as ac-
quatics boss Page Remillard notes, it’s not who’s ahead at the beginn-
ing or middle of a race, but at the end that counts. Word to the wise: Be
watching for W&L at the end,..And before we go, a congratulatory note

' to W&L assistant athletic director Chuck O’Connell Good to see quality

rewarded...

....1 keep hoping for some sort of divine intervention on a Monday
night that will remove The New Three Stooges from the booth...I heard
the federal government has declared Knoxville, Tenn., a national
danger zone to be avoided by any college team that thinks it’s any
good. Vols are a guaranteed Top 20 team and may be even better than
that...Speaking of the college game, Big 10 fans should circle Oct. 19
and Nov. 2. Those are the scheduled showdowns (Michigan at Iowa
and Iowa at Ohio State) in one of the two best conferences in the nation
in 1985. The other? See above (SEC)...

....And finally, a note to our misguided neighbors next door: There
was no reason to feed your young men to the Tar Heels over the
weekend. Nothing like scheduling a confidence builder. Only game
report I have ever seen that included a hospital report...

 

 

 

:
m
*
*
‘
*
*
*
*

¥,

+

x
2
%
«
«
ue
*«
*
«
*
*

x
x

K
i

7
*

7

+

*

«
«

io

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 9

 

 

ae

W&L’s Ken Randby dives for the ball against Mary Washington

Kickers’ winning wave bottoms out

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

Any surfer knows that no matter
how good the waves are, they’re not
all going to be 20-footers. And on that
‘rare occasion when he does happen to
catch the good wave, he rides it out
for all it’s worth. The Generals’ win-
ning soccer wave just ran out.

Their two consecutive shutout vic-’
tories were wiped out by a pair of
losses in the last week. The W&L
booters were outscored 7-1 in two
games with Mary Washington and
Lynchburg.

For the first time all season, the
W&L detense showed signs of being
human. The tight marking style that
the Generals had used in the first two
outings was upstaged by the superior
offenses of Lynchburg and Mary
Washington.

Yesterday, the Hornets of Lynch-
burg scored twice in both the first
and second half to hand W&L its first
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
loss of the season. Peter Van Son
tallied the lone General score in the
4-1 defeat.

Last Thursday, the quick, precise
passing of Mary Washington was too
much for the W&L defense, and when

Goundry paces runners

 

By REED HOWLETT
StaffReporter

Running on the flat 5-mile course of
Washington College last Saturday the
W&L cross country team took advan-
tage of a beautiful fall day to dispose
of botli Mary Washington College and
Washington College.

The Generals’ 23 points bested the
performance of Mary Washington
(37) and the hosts Washington Col-
lege (69).

Eddie Goundry led the way, run-
ning the distance in 26:49 for a first-
place finish and a new course record.

Goundry got plenty of support from
teammates Scott Rippeon, Ash An-
drews and Michael Friedman, who
recorded the third through fifth
places, running the course in 28:11,
28:14, and 28:59, respectively

Despite the fact that the course at
Washington College was not as chal-
lenging as the one at W&L, Coach

SATURDAY

Wa&L vs. Randolph-Macon

Catch all the action beginning at 1:20 p.m.

Your station for
Generals’ sports

Dick Miller was very pleased with
the results ‘considering we were
without two of our seven top run-
ners.’’ Coach Miller indicated that,
though Washington College ran about
as he had anticipated, he was expec-
ting alittle more of a challenge from
Mary Washington.

Running against Norfolk State and
Roanoke at home on Saturday the
Generals will not have to wait long
for a challenge. Roanoke is supposed
to be very tough at this time, Miller
said, and with two of W&L’s’ top run-
ners taking the Law School Admis-
sions Test, the Generals will have to
rise to the occasion.

The W&L harriers have now re-
corded 16 straight victories dating
back to last season. Coach Miller is
very pleased with where the team is
and feels that they are running faster
than last year at this time.

Saturday’s race begins at 11:30
a.m.

| SEERA RATA ES ee IKI IKI IKK KKK KEK IK KKK KA,

WLUR-FM 91.5

goes on the road with Generals’ football

 

KK

Be TORO ROT TORT ROTI OR DOT A tA A A A A A I IK

Se

KKKK

the Generals tried to mount an offen-
sive threat, they seemed to do noth-
ing more than prompt the opponents
to counter-attack.

In the early stages on Thursday, in-
dividual heroics by the W&L defense,
despite injuries to starters Tem
Meyers, John Coll and Mike Drusa-
no, kept the Scots off the scoreboard.
However, one can only rise to so
many occasions, and at 31:26,
the W&L luck ran out. MW forward
Shawn Carson found himself all alone
ust outside the W&L goal area and
launched a rocket that raced by W&L
netminder Chris Gareis.

Santo

In the second half. the Generals’ of-

 

By David Sprunt

fense looked very much like the one
that had tallied nine goals in two
games. The 11-man attack was quick
ly installed and it created some goal-
scoring chances. Unfortunately, this
good fortune didn’t last very long. At
40:34 of the second stanza, MW’s
Chris Peck took advantage of an
overshifted W&L defense and knock-
ed home a beautiful cross for the
game’s second goal.

Trailing 2-0 and unable to assert
themselves offensively, the Generals
continued their frustrated assault on
the MW goal. But to add insult to in-
jury, MW added its third goal on a
penalty kick.

XA

W&L Bookstore

Josten’s

Ring Representative

will be on campus

October 11 - 12

The bookstore will also be open
- 4:00 p.m.
Homecoming Sat., Oct. 12.

9:00 a.m.

sm

  

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

@ Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It’s not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. FB So
come on in. Bring the whole

4

 

  
 

$9 oF

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please presen spon when ordering Not valid nmbi
cash redempt TYAD Praze Hut Ine tone

fm 6 A te
Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

en

nat “ her tte 20ve
vyithrougt

family. QP We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut"
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

/
|

a

1
fae ees nad a a Fa

$a

600 EF. Nelson St.
Lexinatan, VA
452-/000

)

10-12-85

kee cameo

EEUU

$

=

  
EBACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

 

Willson-Walker fills
needed dining niche

FOODREVIEW

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

 

For the past few years, Lexington
has had a lack of what I would call
‘fine’ restaurants. Although the
Palm’s, Spanky's and the Southern
Inn have always had good food, there
seemed to be a niche to fill. For
tunately, the Willson-Walker House
has come to fill that gap

Nattily dressed, we arrived for our
5:45 p.m. reservation, which had
been made to afford maximum chow
time. All the time management had
spent renovating the place had not
gone to waste. The interior was very
stylish and according to Chris, a vast
improvement over the old White Col
umn Inn that used to be there

We were immediately seated and
then just as quickly attended to by
one of the most polite waiters in Lex
ington. We were given menus, but at
first I was more interested in the
napkin on my plate, it was so com-
plexly arranged I thought it was one
of the senior sculpture projects.
Chris suggested they might be door
prizes, but being the savvy food
critics we are, we eventually put
them on our laps.

All the appetizers sounded good but
the most interesting of the group
were the sauteed frog legs at $3.7
We both knew our public would want
us to try them but the — was
which one of us would take the dare
The only appetizer that did not in
terest me or Chris was the soup de
jour, Pepper and corn chowder may
be wonderful, but we weren't about to
find out. If we ever get a raise, we'll
go back and try it. When the waiter
came to take our order, out of sheer
bravado | the am
phibians while Chris chose the stuff
ed mushrooms

Aside from the sauteed veal liver
(yucky), all the entrees true
blue American in origin. Therefore,
the sophisticated Washington and
Lee gentleman or lady can ‘‘chow
down” (as we sophisticates call it)
and feel patriotic all in one meal
Some of the more interesting dishes
were the roast half duckling, $10.00
pan fried chicken breast, $9.00; broil
ed boneless mountain trout,
and the pan fried crab cakes, $8.75.
Chris decided to order the Lemon
Linguini (all right, so maybe this one
wasn't quite American, but Chris
always was a little iffy), and I decid
ed on the veal chop, Virginia ham
and Gouda cheese because it sounded
so intriguing.

After we ordered we were supplied

volunteered to get

were

$11.25;

vith freshly baked cornbread sticks.
These were absolutely fabulous, but
just to make sure, we ate three
baskets of them throughout the night.
lhe appetizers arrived and were both
very good. The frog legs tasted like
very tender chicken and there was a
nice tangy taste from the sauteeing.
Chris informed me that the mush-
rooms were also excellent.

After the appetizers came our
house salad, which came with the
funky salad dressing of your choice.
Chris picked the honey and bacon
dressing while I got mine with the
cucumber and sour cream dressing.
lhe salads were fine, but I personally
didn’t think there was enough dres-
sing; when I get a funky dressing on
my salad I expect to taste it. Also, for
those of us spoiled by the all-you-can-
gorge-on salad bar at Evan's dining
hall the size of the salad was a little
disappointing. Fortunately I was
able to console myself with a fresh
basket of cornbread sticks.

When the main dish came all was
forgiven. Chris’s linguini was light
and cooked just-right with a delicious
lemon sauce. My dish was a veal
chop, excellent Virginia ham and
plenty of rich Gouda cheese all cook-
ed up inside a light pastry shell. Both
entrees had enough for the biggest of
Mank appetites. Afterwards, we en-

‘Hill Street Blues’ falls short

TVREVIEW

By BILLHANNA
Television Critic

 

 

Network premier week has come to
an end and most every television
show has had its “spectacular”
season starting episode and can now
settle down until next fall.

Most of the returning shows mea-
sured up to expectations, but there
was one that left me disappointed.

I had been waiting for the first
episode of ‘Hill Street Blues’’ to find
out if Hill and Renko would be com-
fortably be riding together again,
what becomes of Furillo’s returning
drinking problem and if Joyce can
deal with her return to the public
defender half of the court.

Instead the show opened with the
night shift roll call. None of the usual
faces were in the room. This episode
was going to show what the charac-
ters did after they got off work.

This might have had some success
except for all the surprises thrown in.

Some of the characters were hav-
ing a drink at a bar and out of no-
where an unknown man gets a knife
in his chest. No explanation is of-
fered.

LaRue and Renko plan a race to
work after they ?oth argue about
which route is faster.

While this is going on, Henry goes
out to stop someone he seemed to
know from disturbing the peace.

WLUR

Continued from Page |

 

 

Washington and Lee radio was
born.

The program was called ‘‘Home
Edition,” and it continued to ride the
WREL and WLUR airwaves for
years tocome.

Working conditions in those days
were a far cry from what the staff of
WLUR enjoys today. ‘‘To get ‘Home
Edition’ on the air,’’ explained Rie-
gel, ‘students had to prepare the
copy in Payne Hall and take it every
night, usually on foot, from Payne
Hall to the WREL studios, which in
the early years were on the second
floor of the First National Bank
building on Main Street.”

A listener survey in 1950 found that
“Home Edition” rated first in radio
listening preference among residents
of Lexington and Rockbridge County
and in 1952 a telephone loop connec-
ting Payne Hall to WREL eliminated
the need for footwork.

By 1962, Riegel reported, the pro
gramming was expanded to two
hours every night over WREL, re
mote from Payne Hall.

In 1964, the move was made into
the newly remodeled Reid Hall, and
by 1966 W&L President Fred Carring-
ton Cole gave the ‘green light’ to
build a radio station.

Riegel wrote that many months of
detailed planning followed, but the
planning came to a happy close at 7
p.m., Feb. 27, 1967, when WLUR sign
ed on the air *

In these early days, WLUR was on

After talking for a minute or so,
Henry is forced into the building and
has explosives attached to him

1 uon t know why Henry was work-
ing while everyone was at the bar,
but he should have chosen the drink
after work instead of a little over
time.

Frank and Joyce aren't left out
either, as they have a dinner engage-
ment with some friends or collea-
gues. This wouldn't have been so bad
except that a new character accuses
her husband, also a new character, of
cheating on her. Frank and Joyce are
saved from her ranting and raving by
a phone call about Henry's capture.

With the reduction of the Hill Street
cast, chances are these dinner com-
panions will not be on the show again
so why even bother with the arguing
couple. Just make it a norma! dinner

We are also introduced to some
other new characters. Belker’s
mother is shown, but dies in her first
appearance on the show.

The character Lucy, played by
Emmy Award winner Betty Thomas,
is also involved in the introduction of
a new character. She meets a man
who operates a kind of pottery studio
and becomes involved in what could
be the start of some kind of weird kiln
love affair.

All these scenes may have given
the show a little more of a nighttime
drama look which could increase rat-
ings, but there is also a lack of reality
which helped to win the show popu-
larity and many Emmy Awards, in
previous years,

among the first group to play rock
music on WLUR. ‘‘They created a
late-night time slot for rock so as to
not scare away any regular listen-
rs,’’ Hinely said.

“We named the show ‘Chunga’s
Revenge’ after a Frank Zappa al
bum,” Hinely said,” and the show
ran 10 to midnight, five nights a
week.”’

In 1975, the radio station made
some technical advances. Tom
Tinsley, director of technical servies
and a 1975 W&L graduate, said it was
during this period that the old 10-watt
transmitter was replaced with a 175
watt transmitter, and the switch was
made from mono sound to stereo
sound

Today, WLUR is designed to serve
two purposes, According to faculty
station manager Robert deMaria.
WLUR’s mission is to train students
in broadcasting and provide alter
native programming for the Lexing
ton and Rockbridge County area

To meet both the educational needs
of the students and the listening
desires of all Rockbridge County

residents, WLUR provides a wide
range of programming
Student station manager Brian

Oliger explained the different pro
grams available to WLUR listeners

The major areas are rock, jazz
classical, bluegrass. folk and blues
music, as well as news, sports and

public affairs programming
ROCK WLUR has three daily
rock shows during the week
some special programs on the week
end, Oliger said
‘Morning Magazine’ plays a wide
variety of light rock that appeals to a
wide number of folks,’ he said. “‘It’s

and

th any luck, the reality people
h come to expect from “Hill
Street Blues” will return in the next
episode

Enough whining for this week.
There are some good shows to talk
about.

A few good movies with ‘‘Deliver-
ance’ on channel 5 at 6 Sunday night.
“The Long Hot Summer’”’ also comes
to NBC Sunday night, starring Cybill
Shephard and Don Johnson.

Specials this week include a 5-
episode tribute to the 25th anniver-
sary of “The Andy Griffith Show’
featuring the favorites of Andy,
Barney, Goober, Gomer and Opie.

And now for the big news for this
week. NBC is holding another profes-
sional wrestling extravaganza Satur-
day night at 11:30.

The matches include Hulk Hogan
defending his World Wrestling Fed-
eration Heavyweight title against
Nikolai Volkoff and Rowdy Roddy
Piper trying to end Paul ‘‘Mr. Won-
derful’’ Orndorff’s wrestling career.
Also shown will be Uncle Elmer’s
wedding and tag-team match featur-
ing Andre the Giant and Tony Atlas
locking up with Big John Studd and
King Kong Bundy. This one will pro-
bably be in stereo no less.

One last thing. Anyone who saw the
first episode of Steven Spielberg’s
‘Amazing Stories” should agree that
a show featuring a train running
through a house when there have
been no rails there for 50 years is not
much fun. Get a grip on at least a
touch of reality, buddy.

“Moving to the afternoons, we
have “The Rock Show.’ During this
time we're trying to get away from
playing the same old cliched songs
over and over again,”’ he said. To
help accommodate this, Oliger said
that afternoon disc jockeys are re-
quired to play half* of their music
from the playlist, which contains
WLUR’s newest albums.

The other daily rock program is
“Third Ear.” Oliger described it as
“eclectic” and said it ‘draws from a
number of different sources’’. He ad-
ded that while ‘‘The Rock Show’’
- on a tune-by-tune basis, “Third

Ear” has more of a flow to it and the
show should be taken as a whole.

Other rock programming includes
Sunday night's “Blast From the
Past,” featuring music of the 50s and
60s

There is also Saturday night’s
‘“‘Anti-Headache Machine,”’ the only
WLUR program that is on year
round. Doug Harwood started the
show as a W&L student in the mid-
70s and has been doing the show on
Saturday nights since then. Oliger
said the show has a strong folk in-
fluence, but added that Harwood
plays everything from Bach to the
Beatles

IAZZ WLUR’s jazz program-
ming includes everything from the
oldest big band sounds like Glenn
Miller to the newest sounds of Pat
Metheny, Oliger said.

Jazz Is A Four-Letter Word’’
highlights a lot of the older music
while ‘Skyline’ features newer
material, including fusion, and on the
weekends a mixture of rock and jazz
is featured on “Horizons.”

CLASSICS “Our classics pro-

 

 

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi 4

The Willson-Walker House, located at 30 N. Main St., opened in the spring ‘

joyed our tea and waited on our bak-
ed while-u-wait fresh fruit cobblers
for desert. By this time, we were too
stuffed to take notes but I can assure
you that these too were equally
delicious.

Overall, we would recommend the
Willson-Walker House to anyone who

Room 203, Reid Hall.

ty Library.

Lewis Hall. Admission is free.

Lewis Hall.

Hall.

merce School.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 3
7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILMS: ‘‘Nanook of the North’ and ‘‘Rain.”’

8 p.m. — SHANNON-CLARK LECTURE IN ENGLISH: ‘‘Arguments
About ‘The Canon’: What Do We Mean By ‘Literature’?’’ Professor
Frank Dermode, Columbia University. Northen Auditorium, Universi-

Friday, October 4
8 p.m. — FILM: “The Night of The Shooting Stars.” In Italian with
English subtitles. Sponsored by the W&L Film Society. Classroom A,

Saturday, October 5
8 p.m. — FILM: ‘The Night of The Shooting Stars.”’ Classroom A,

Monday, October 7
9 p.m.—FOOTBALL: St. Louis Cardinals v. Washington Redskins.
Free popcorn. General Headquarters.

Tuesday, October 8
3:30 p.m. — FILM: “‘Clavigo.”’ InGerman. Room 203, Reid Hall.
7&9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “The Gold Rush.” Room 203, Reid

Wednesday, October 9
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “‘All the King’s Men.”’ Room 327, Com-

9 p.m.—WEDNESDAY in G.H.Q.: Featuring Spark Plugs. Sponsored
by the Student Activities Board. General Headquarters. Admission is

enjoys a fine meal, great service and
relaxing atmosphere all for a rela-
tively reasonable price. The Willson-
Walker would be especially good for
Parent’s Weekend or for anyone who
like to really impress their dates (I
guess that leaves me and Chris out).
With an excellent meal and equally

 

 

good dinner conversation, Chris and I
both though it worth the fifty dollars
tab. Open Tuesday through Satur-
day, and requiring a reservation, the*
Willson-Walker House is a welcomes
addition to the Lexington restaurant,
scene and we wish it a prosperous’
future. ’

1985 marks .
Film Society’s
8th season:

‘o

The Film Society opens its eighth,
season this weekend with “The Night
of the Shooting Stars,” a 1983 Italian‘
film. ‘

Directed by Paolo and Vittorio Ta-s
viani, ‘““The Night of the Shooting
Stars” is one woman’s recollections’
of the latter days of World War II in*
her village in Tuscany. The woman,
recounts the courageous escape of
the townspeople from avenging Fas-
cist sympathizers as American,
troops draw near. The film is in’
Italian with English subtitles. ’

Showings of “The Night of the«
Shooting Stars” will be Friday and |
Saturday at 8 p.m. in Classroom A of
Lewis Hall. Admission is free. ‘

Other films scheduled for this fall+
are Diane Kury’s ‘Peppermint ,
Soda” (France, 1978), to be shown’
Oct. 25-26, and Ingmar Bergman’s+
“Fanny and Alexander’’ (Sweden,
1983),
films will be announced later. ‘

At7 p.m. before each night’s show- *
ing of ‘‘The Night of the Shooting ,

Stars,”’ the Film Society will host a ©
coffee and cookie reception in the *
Lewis Hall lobby for those interested ,'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$2.50. in discussing films and making sug- «&
gestions for future film showings.
\
i
SUNDAY MONDAY-FRIDAY SATURDAY?!
.
MORNING MAGAZINE F
6:30-9 a.m. 2
A.M. A.M. OVERTURE MORNING [+
OVERTURE 9-11:30 MAGAZINE |!
9-Noon PUBLIC AFFAIRS 11:30-Noon 9-Noon .
MERIDIAN REPORT Noon-12:30 <ENE 5 |
HORIZONS GENERALS 7
Naas JAZZ IS A FOUR-LETTER WORD FOOTBALL
Noon-3 ‘
12:30-3 AND
‘
BLUEGRASS see A
THE ROCK SHOW ROCK ‘N :
AND 3-5
OLDTIME ROLL ‘
3-530 EVENING EDITION 5-5:30 .
Noon-6 i
CLASSICAL CLASSICAL SHOWCASE Pt. I ‘
SHOWCASE 5:30-8 SHADES t
5:30-9 OF BLUES |,
: CLASSICAL SHOWCASE Pt. Il 6-9
‘
SPORTSTALK 8-10 ANTI-
——— q
BLAST FROM SKYLINE HEADACHE |,
THE PAST “TAT
10-Midnight 10-Midnight MACHINE |,
THIRD EAR _ THIRD EAR $1 a.m, ’
Midnight-2 a.m. Midnight-2 a.m. ‘
r

in the mornings and ‘Classical Show-
case’ in the evenings. ‘‘These shows
are very popular with the townspeo-
ple and W&L professors as well as
students who study to classics in the
evening,” Oliger said.
BLUEGRASS/FOLK/BLUES —

style, New Urieans rhythm and
blues.

NEWS/SPORTS — ‘‘News is look-
ing the best that it has looked in
years,’’ Oliger said. ‘‘We've got a lot
of freshmen involved in news — in
fact, more than any other depart-

 

 

 

' ’
Wii ' Web

football games and also will be

presenting ‘‘Sportstalk’’ on Sunday *

night,
Besides the additions to the broad-

cast schedule, WLUR will be picking *

up some addtional power output.

to be shown Dec. 6-7. Other’.

 

 

 

 

i

|

 

four hours a day, with just classical music that’s easy to get up to and ming has been dramatically ex- “The old-time folk and bluegrass are ment.” Plans are under way now to increase
music and news. In fact, it was not — easy to deal with panded this year,’ Oliger said. very popular here and it’s a shame WLUR has two half-hour news from the 100 watts of output to about '
until the 1970-71 school year that Oliger said that these are the most ‘Classical programs are our highest- we don’t have time to schedule shows and updates at 2:55 and 7:55. 450 watts. According to Tinsley the
WLUR had its first sanctioned rock personality related shows of the en- rated shows and it’s the kind of pro- _more,’’ Oliger said. On Sunday you ‘‘We try to provide everybody in Lex- power increase won't let the atin
programming tiie day and add ne sports and gramming we get the most feedback —_can catch “Bluegrass and Oldtime”’ ington with the national headlines as reach Roanoke, but it will make the *

University Photographer Patrick features along with musical pre- on and Saturday you can tune in for  wellas the local news,” Oliger said. signal stronger in the Lexington
Hinely. a 1973 W&L graduate. was gramming WLUR features ‘A.M. Overture’ “Shades of Blues’’ featuring old- In sports, Oliger noted that WLUR Rockbridge vicinity

'

 

tn ee a + en nl NN sink nian eotintearsmintseetbt tt Oraceabete ae

'
