«

~

*

| Theater presents
‘Frankenstein’

 

 
  
   

 

Page 6

 

Movie

 

SRO crowd sees
movie on porn

Page 4"

 

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 30

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

President John D. Wilson said to-
day he will bring before the Board of
Trustees this weekend a University
Athletic Committee proposal recom-
mending the lacrosse team’s NCAA
classification be changed from Divi-
sion I to Division III.

The proposal, unanimously agreed
to by the committee in a 55-minute
meeting yesterday, states that “W&L
cannot realistically expect to be com-
petitive in lacrosse at the Division I
level.”

 

 

The committee’s proposal calts for
the lacrosse team’s National Col-
legiate Athletic Association classifi-
cation to be changed ‘‘immediately.’’
The deadline for filing a request for
reclassification with the NCAA for
next school year is June 1. The Board

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Trustees to study plans
for auditorium theater

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

The Board of Trustees this
weekend will examine architects’
drawings of a proposed auditor-
ium and theater to be built near
the dormitory now under con-
struction.

The meeting of the 25 trustees
will begin tonight with an infor-
mal dinner. Tomorrow the
board’s seven committees will
meet, and Saturday the entire
board will meet for about four

Your weekend weather oe
Fri.: 30% rain chance;
Sat., Sun.: Rain chance

 

7H ONIVERSITY LIGRAR
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, NA; 24450

MAY 301986

MAY 22, 1986

Panel recommends
lax go to Division Ill

 

year of the Student Control Com-
mittee’s new disciplinary rules
that specify ‘‘major’’ and
“‘minor’’ offenses.

eThe University operating and
capital projects budgets will be
presented by the Budget and
Audit Committee. A review of the
University’s current unrestricted
fund is also planned.

ePromotions and tenure for
eligible faculty members will be
considered, and department head
appointments and _ reappoint-
ments will be made.

 

 

Confucius?

’ The driver of this Datsun 240ZX parked on Lee Street
this week was packed and ready for the trip back to Ten-
nessee after Hollins College finished its exams on Tues-

By Reade Williams/The Ring-tum Phi

favorite for dorm room walls.

day. Visible through her hatchback is this thought for the
day for drivers along Interstate 81. The poster is a

of Trustees has the final say on
W&L’s divisional status.

The president reached his decision
to submit the proposal after a meet-
ing this morning with Athletic Com-
mittee acting-Chairman Barry
Machado, and Athletic Director
William D. McHenry and Dean of
Students Lewis G. John, both of

(See Lacrosse, Page 4

hours.

University
Wilson said Tuesday.

ness will include:

 

The project will be continued if
the trustees approve funds for it,
President John D.

Wilson said other board busi-

The Campus Life Committee
will present a report on the first

eA tentative list of degree can-
didates will be submitted, subject
to final approval by the faculty,
which will make the final decision
after the examination period.

*The board also will discuss
freshman orientation, coeduca-
tion, fraternity affairs, and inter-
collegiate athletic affairs.

 

 

New treasurer: ‘More methodical with money’ after ‘84 audit

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Incoming University Treasurer Lawrence
W. Broomall Jr. in 1983 violated state pur-
chasing rules and exceeded his financial
authority in furnishing his College of William
and Mary office but broke no laws, a school
auditor ruled in 1984. A subsequent state in-
vestigation also found that Broomall had not
acted illegally.

Two top Washington and Lee ad-
ministrators said they were unaware of the
incident until this week. A trustee who knew
about the matter before Broomall was
chosen last month said he thought the matter
was irrelevant.

The W&M and state inquiries probed
whether Broomall, the school’s vice presi-
dent for business affairs, had misdirected
funds the college received for the use of its
facilities during the 1983 Economic Summit
of Industrialized Nations in Williamsburg.

The school received about $345,000 for ser-
vices during the summit. Broomall’s inten-
tion to spend $38,000 of that on W&M office
renovations drew the attention of Virginia
Auditor of Public Accounts Charles K. Tri-

Less than $15.95

Nihilism comes cheaper, these days.

spent four weeks on the New

paperbound edition.

press run for the original edition.

almost exclusively students,
“recognize friends”’ in the book.

say

developed

said

 

 

Bret Easton Ellis’ ‘Less Than Zero,”’ which
York Times
bestseller list as a $15.95 hardback, now is
available in the University Bookstore in a $5.95

Penguin Books says it initially has printed
100,000 copies of the softback version; a Simon and
Schuster spokeswoman declined to reveal the

Susan A. LaRue, trade book manager for the
University Bookstore, said ‘“‘Less Than Zero’’ is
‘definitely the bestseller” of the year for the shop.

She said that since September, the store has sold
about 60 copies of the original edition, which is
“really unusual for a hardback book.’’ LaRue
ordered two dozen of the paperbacks, and since
they arrived last Thursday, half have been sold.

LaRue said many purchasers, who have been
that

LaRue said she read the book last fall because
she was curious about the following the book had

“I’m impressed that [the readers she’s talked
with] seem to understand it’s a tragic book,”’ she

ble. Expenditures in question included the
purchase of Broomall’s $1,254 chrome-trim
desk, a $698 chrome and leather chair and $49
in decorative pottery.

The internal audit, which Broomall re-
quested, found he had committed funds he
did not have the authority to use.

The Newport News Daily Press reported
that after the completion of the school audit
but before the exonerating state review, the
W&M board of visitors ‘‘chastised Broomall
for his handling of the matter and ap-
propriated private, non-state money to cover
the expenses he had authorized.”’

Broomall, who begins work at W&L on July
1, initially said this week that he was un-
willing to discuss the incident, but later said
that Virginia spending procedures were ‘‘not
precisely followed”’ in the matter.

“T tried to do something more expeditious-
ly than the bureaucracy would permit,’’ he
said, adding that as a result of the investiga-
tion he will be ‘more methodical with
money-spending in the future.”’

Broomall, 44, has been a higher-education
administrator for 16 years.

President John D. Wilson, who appointed
Broomall, and retiring treasurer E. Stewart

Rock, MTV and Costello mix
in Bret Ellis’ ‘Less Than Zero’

Epley, who participated in the selection pro-
cess, said on Tuesday that they had not heard
about the controversy over the summit
funds.

James M. Ballengee, rector of the W&L
Board of Trustees, said yesterday that he
was informed about the matter prior to
Broomall’s hiring, but did not find the infor-
mation important enough to pass on to
Wilson or Epley.

“It seemed so insignificant I didn’t even
bother to do anything about it,” Ballengee
said from his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Ballengee, who participated in the selec-
tion of Broomall, said he has served twice in
government service and said he ‘‘can under-
stand when one gets frustrated with the gov-
ernment procedure.”

“It didn’t reflect on his character — it was
a matter of wanting to get the job done,”
Ballengee added. ‘It’s not like buying a
$1,000 commode seat for the Air Force.”

Wilson said yesterday that he didn’t know
whether he should have been informed of the
matter during the selection process.

“T don’t know what significance has been
attached to this by others,”’ he said. ‘‘From
what I know of, this isn’t a significant item.
I’m not going to second-guess it, nor am I go-

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

discarded. Let me explain.

narrator) Clay, returns to Los

they ships.

Hit song after hit song

 

See Zero, Page 4

 

 

Now that Bret Easton Ellis’ ‘‘Less Than Zero’’ has
made it to paperback, the true impact of this modern
study in nihilism can finally be gauged. This is the book
that demands to be purchased cheaply, read quickly and

Bret Ellis, at the ripe old age of 21, has become a
literary phenomenon in an alarmingly short time. In-
deed, he is something of a Rob Lowe of the literary world.
The instant success of ‘‘Less Than Zero”’ is more than fit-
ting for a book named after a pop song — Elvis Costello's
protest about Oswald Mosely and the National Front. The
tune’s chorus: ‘‘Everything means less than zero.”’

Elvis Costello, MTV and rock music are the primary
images Ellis uses to tell his disconcerting tale of rich
Beverly Hills teenagers. The main character (also the
Angeles on Christ-
mas break from an Eastern College. The two-week
vacation turns out to be a series of endless parties, co-
caine binges, pulsating tunes and crumbling relation-

The prose style is cold, detached and streamlined. Clay
views the world as a flowing stream of sensory images
and events. Nothing is commented upon, nothing is il-
luminated. Clay’s world is a barren landscape of pro-
ducers’ mansions, seedy rock clubs and all-night diners.
blares continually

in the

ing to second-guess the character of the man
we appointed.”

Wilson said that in discussing Broomall
with numerous W&M officials and staffers at
Colonial Williamsburg, ‘‘no one thought this
was significant enough to bring to our atten-
tion.”’

In discussing the 1984 Broomall matter,
Wilson at one point called it “‘the newspaper
thing.’’ Indeed, the charges and investiga-
tion attracted considerable attention in the
Daily Press, including three front-page
stories.

Broomall said yesterday that he ‘‘didn’t
think about’ informing Wilson or Epley
about the matter and said he had ‘‘no feel-
ings one way or the other’’ about whether
they should have been told.

“It didn’t occur to me that something that
old has any bearing on anything that would
come up now,”’ Broomall said, adding that he
would be “happy to provide my personal file
to Wilson or anyone else.”

Epley said on Tuesday that he was ‘‘com-
pleteiy unaware”’ of the investigation, and he
woud be ‘‘surprised’”’ if any of the other
members of the selection committee knew
about it.

The committee, composed of the school’s

 

    

deans and about 10 other staff members who
work regularly with the treasurer, interview-
ed five candidates for the job and then sub-
mitted evaluations to Wilson.

Epley said Wilson selected Broomall and
that the committee did not participate in the
actual choice beyond the candidate evalua-
tions.

Broomall said he had an “intermittent
working relationship’ and made ‘‘policy
decisions”’ with Wilson at Virginia Polytech-
nic Institute and State University in Blacks-
burg while Wilson was provost and Broomall
was budget director.

Associate Administration Professor Roger
A. Dean, a specialist in personnel manage-
ment, said it is standard practice for a
university president to hire people with
whom he has worked, and Wilson actually
has done that to a lesser degree than might
be expected.

Dean said he is “‘a little surprised’’ that
with the number of administrative posts that
have been filled in the last few years, the
treasurer’s job is the first to go to an ac-
quaintance of the president.

“This is the first person they’ve hired that
Wilson knew, so that probably had very little
to do withit,” he said.

Dunnavan
returns for
arraignment

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

Former senior Roger L. Dunnavan
Jr. of Longwood, Fla., was arraigned
Monday morning on credit card theft
charges and released on a $2,000
bond.

Dunnavan, who was indicted May 5
by a Rockbridge County grand jury,
turned himself in to Lexington police
Monday, according to Police Chief
L.O. Sutton.

Dunnavan was sought by police for
several weeks as a suspect in an in-
vestigation they were conducting in-
volving the attempted use of a credit
card in early April to withdraw $1,800
from a local bank.

Dunnavan withdrew from Wash-
ington and Lee on April 29, according
to University Registrar D. Scott Ditt-
man.

Commonwealth's Attorney Bever-
ly C, “John” Read, who asked for the
indictments on charges of credit card
theft and attempted grand larceny,
said Tuesday that the case is ‘‘very
serious.”’

Dunnavan is scheduled to appear
in Rockbridge County Circuit Court
on June 25 to plead to the charges.

 

 

 

28 eRe ROEDER Renae emer REY BFE pn, fey aoe sor
|

OPINION
Leaky drips,

The recent uproar over the reporting by an NBC News cor-
respondent of a sensitive intelligence gathering operation in
the Soviet Union reminds us a bit of the foofaraw over report-
ing of open honor trials. In these parallel situations, both
sides need to learn certain lessons.

One would hardly expect such brazen behavior out of the
NBC studios, given their ‘“‘Home-on-the-range in South
Dakota’ anchorman, Tom Brokaw. But nearly two weeks
ago, his evening broadcast featured an exclusive interview
with the terrorist who supposedly masterminded the Achille
Lauro hijacking last summer and who is wanted by four
countries, including the United States. The NBC reporter who
conducted the interview, London correspondent Henry
Champ, refused to disclose in which city he had interviewed
Aboul Abbas and when he had done so.

Criticism was swift for NBC; were they not patriotic, or did
they just want to be pawns of a terrorist, giving him more
publicity for his war on the United States?

Just as the dust was settling over the Abbas incident, along
came Jim Polk, correspondent for Brokaw’s morning count-
erpart, the ‘‘Today”’ show. In a story dealing with the trial of
Ronald Pelton, the National Security Agency code genius
charged with espionage, Polk detailed a sensitive in-
telligence gathering operation called ‘‘Ivy Bells’’ that used
U.S. submarines and high-tech listening devices to spy on the
Soviets from their own harbors. This story, over which Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Director William Casey had
threatened The Washington Post with a court injunction and
criminal prosecution earlier in the week, was effectively
broadcast to nearly 9 million viewers. So much for the ‘‘Top
Secret” classification. .

Casey’s disenchantment with the media is understandable.
He had met with Post officials earlier in the month and
carefully outlined his objections to certain ‘“‘sen-
sitive’’ stories The Post and other publications had recently
featured. His penchant for secrecy demands careful adher-
ence to a strict set of publishing guidelines. His — and Presi-
dent Reagan’s and Secretary of State George Schultz’s —
hatred of the few disenchanted CIA or State Department or
National Security Council staffers who continually supply the
press with classified reports or information is well-
documented. Wednesday’s editions of The Post included a
watered-down version of the controversial article, along with
a story of the introspection The Post had undergone in
deciding to publish the few, scant facts.

In a way, we see the suit Casey filed Tuesday against Polk
and NBC News as a long overdue ‘‘check”’ of press abuses.
NBC seemed to tip its hat to Casey while talking out of the
other side ot its mouth. The ‘‘catch-me-if-you-dare”’ attitude
is dangerous, especially in the press, given its preeminent
role in shaping today’s policies and public opinion. Some
matters are simply not for general public consumption,
despite the belief that ‘‘the people have a right to know.”

How true. And yet, when placing the same situation within
the context of the Washington and Lee community, certain
troubling parallels can be drawn.

Consider the well-documented case of a certain open honor
trial last fall. A senior charged with stealing had his case
reported on the front page of this paper, and in this column,
we decried the jury’s verdict, telling specifically why we
would have arrived at a different verdict given the same in-
formation. Did we consider it daring at that time? Not par-
ticularly. Would we do it again? Not necessarily.

That seems like a ‘‘gray’’ answer. Yet, the knowledge at
that time was community knowledge, and to stop the spread
of rumors and half-truths that usually proliferate when the
lights in the EC room burn past midnight, we published some
of the facts of the case and even an interview with the defen-
dant.

But as with the CIA and NBC News, the EC pounced upon
the Phi reporting as contrary to the Honor System tenet that
no knowledge of such affairs go beyond the W&L community.
No hanging out the dirty laundry. Some matters people just
don’t have to know nor do they have a right to know. It is a
private matter, after all.

So, we reformed our ways. But we still hear lots of informa-
tion, rumors and half-truths about honor matters, thanks to
an abundance of loose tongues. Like disenchanted or publici-
ty-seeking government employees, some EC members and
the student witnesses or accused involved in any given honor
investigation have, in the past, talked a little too much.

So when we hear of a case, what do we do? After last fall’s
fiasco, we settled on a policy with the EC not to divulge such
information. We would try to keep the ‘‘details’’ out of the
paper, although no provision — outside of the White Book
stipulation that all matters are considered highly confiden-
tial — was made to stem the flow of EC gossip about the mat-
ters.

It all leads us to wonder who is right in the two situations.
The NBC action certainly borders on irresponsibility, but
that is only a symptom of the far greater illness called
‘“Jeaks” that has taken Washington and other political
societies in epidemic proportions in recent years.

The best way to prevent our getting the information is to
keep the flow to a minimum. At the same time, the press
needs to learn to say ‘‘no’’ every so often, especially when we
may be unable to judge the ‘‘sensitivity’’ of the piece.

 

Py =
Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

a I ions i I eect a oie Mike Allen

re re Paul Foutch
Jim Strader

WI RIND oak oe sicc chee dcesccccssecsceaden ec seenens Reade Williams

oo ee Oe Mike Stachura

RT os bas GAGS ri i ea Jason Lisi

Photography Editer.........ccccscccesccveccccseceveceecerene eeees Perry S. Hayes

MI TI oii cbse rdieseees ceeecicieeses as Marshall Boswell

Fn RR re ee David Emrich

EDITORIAL PAGE

BPOPNRT PGS OME ons i icc cc tccccsscccccecesteccsseccccss NOMEN IGLED

Assistant Editorial Page Editor....................00c0eeee00++0e++.Marie Kothman

TI PER s ice vice ssiieedsset in ccidecives nis Chris Bowring

BUSINESS STAFF

BD ANI i Wackness is Jeff Kimbell

Be ok i GIR Gs as es . Hank Greenberg

es Oe John Feyver, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley
Circulation Manager ...... beeen ee eeeececeecencecereeteseceeeerees Matt Horridge

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

 

 

 

  

OKAY, LET'S
TRY IT AGAIN.

    

 

 

     
     
 

YOU HAVEN'T SEEN MANY OF THOSE
STORIES LATELY AgouT How) STAR WARS
PESEARCH IS GOING FAR BETTER THAN
ANYONE DARED IMAGINE .

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE IMPORTANT DART, THE CONTRACT
DISTRIBUTION PART, IS PROCEEDING APACE.

 

 

 

Tired of mayonnaise
and white bread?

 

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

 

Woody Allen removed a crucifix
and a portrait of Jesus from the
brown paper bag. He reached in
again and pulled out a loaf of Wonder
Bread.

“Oh no,”’ I said. ‘‘Now he’s going to
pull out a jar of mayonnaise.”’

Right-o-stein. In ‘‘Hannah and Her
Sisters,’ Allen committed the ulti-
mate act of conversion from Judaism
to Christianity by purchasing THE
goyish (i.e., Gentile) sandwich com-
bination. New York Jews do not eat
white bread and mayonnaise, not
because it’s not kosher, but because
it’s not part of the culture.

I was the only one in the theater
that night who understood the joke,
but that’s understandable. It’s not
easy being a Jew in Lexington.

As a. Jew, you're asked to explain
Woody Allen movies and to make
crucial decisions, such as whether
day-old bagels should be toasted to
maintain their freshness. The first
day of classes falls on your holiest of
holidays. When you explain that Jews
don’t believe Jesus was the son of
God,‘ you’re asked if you’re a
heathen.

It’s almost as bad as when you’re
away from W&L and the person tak-
ing your check scrunches up his or
her eyebrows and gives you one of
those ‘‘and what white supremist
group do you belong to?” kind of
looks, It’s not easy being a Jew out-
side of Lexington with that swastika-
like W&L symbol on your checks.

Living in the United States, I’ve
been exposed to Christianity all my
life. But just as I’d gained a basic
knowledge of Christianity, I thought
that college students and facuity
would have developed a general un-
derstanding of Judaism.

Wrong-o-witz. The New York
Times recently reported that four out
of five Americans have never tried
bagels. Not to say that these hard,
doughnut-shaped breads will impart
unto you any substantive Talmudic
knowledge, but they beat the mayon-
naise off white bread, especially with
lox and cream cheese.

I can understand the ignorance,
though. I used to think bagels and
doughnuts were the same thing until
I got that ‘‘and what Jewish suprem-
ist group are you a member of”’ look
when I ordered an ‘‘onion’”’ doughnut
as a tot in Jew Joisey. It’s not always
easy being Jewish there, either.

I don’t mind answering questions
about my beliefs or about Lexing-
ton’s first Bat Mitzvah, which was
held last month in Lee Chapel. I do
worry that the small number of Jews
with a Jewish identity on this campus
reinforces the seeming belief among
some people that all the world is
Christian. I am especially troubled
Jewish identity on this campus rein-
forces the seeming belief among
some people that all the world is
Christian. I am especially troubled
because Judaism is not just a reli-
gion, but a culture and a heritage
that is on the brink of extinction due
to assimilation and intermarriage.

In this WASPy world known as
W&L, don’t we have an obligation to
help people gain an appreciation for
other religions and cultures? If so,
our administration needs to set the
tone for getting more Jews here. And
we students must make an effort to
learn more about religions other than
our own, by taking classes and by in-
teracting with people of other faiths.

You might even order your next
Co-op sandwich on rye bread with
mustard and a kosher dill on the side.
See if you don’t get one of those “‘are
you sure you don’t want white bread
and mayonnaise?”’ looks. It’s one of
the perils of being a Jew in good ‘ol
Metrolex.

2

 

Way beyond zero: _—
A senior looks back |

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

“Have a nice life,’’ the women’s-
college tease chirped as she left our
house a few Sundays ago, shoulder-
ing an over-weekend bag that looked
vaguely like something Lands’ End
would sell if it were a boutique.

Her comment was a little discon-
certing — I hadn’t heard that phrase
since ‘‘Grad Nite’’ at Disneyland four
years ago, when hugs, handshakes
and “‘good riddances”’ were dispens-
ed amid ‘The Pirates of the Carib-
bean,”’ ‘‘The Matterhorn” and ‘‘Fan-
tasyland.”’

The same painful process is com-
ing up in a few weeks, but this time it
will be different. We won’t just be
saying goodbye to friends; we’ll be
bidding farewell to what we are told
were the best years of our lives.
Grudgingly, I believe that; it can’t
get better than this.

This summer, I read a column a
guy had written after seeing “St.
Elmo’s Fire.’’ He talked about the
fact that when we’re in college, we
feel that we and our buddies will
never just be ‘normal people.”’

It’s hard to imagine, for example,
not being able to on the spur of the
moment have a midnight pizza with
Brandt, a quick beer with Rick or an
off-the-wall conversation with Matt.
It'll be weird not being able to go
downstairs and shoot the bull with
John or call and wake up Ned for
Saturday lunch.

We're rapidly careening into the
world of schedules, commitments
—and distance. ‘Reality shock,”
they call it in business-admin-
istration classes. And we’re supposed
to be celebrating.

On the front page this week, we
have a review of ‘‘Less Than Zero,”
the haunting, hip-L.A.-youth novel in
which nobody connects — they’re all
afraid to merge. Around here, just
the opposite is the case: You wind up
being extremely dependent on other
people, mainly because they’re
always there.

That’s especially true with mem-
bers of your fraternity, the people
who’ve known you at your best and
worst — and still speak to you.
They’ve seen you with bedhead and
dressed for formals, have a seeming-
ly encyclopedic recall of your suc-
cesses and failures with women, and
know all your foulups, bleeps and
blunders in excruciating detail.

In this world of appearances and
false fronts, it’s been cathartic for
me to have a group of people from
whom nothing is hidden, and who
probably know me better than I know
myself.

One of my regrets about the past
social setup around here is, along
with aesthetics, one of the primary
benefits of coeducation. At Christ-
mas, while I was watching ‘‘The Big
Chill’’ for the 50th time, it occurred to
me that when our gang gets together
in a few years, there won’t be any
Karens, Megs or Sarahs.
Something’s missing there.

As a senior, the main focus is on
where you’re going; it seems healthy
to take a momentary look back at
where you’ve been. Here’s some of
what comes to mind:

eA lingering doubt is about the
value system that’s the norm for us
around here. In my more naive days,
I used to think that “‘If it feels good,
do it” was a joke — a hyperbolic

LETTERS

Readers ask U.Va. critics to look homeward}

A letter of apology to the University of

young people. Around here, though,
it’s the 11th commandment. Tha!
bothers me.

Several of us recently havé
discussed our growing realization
that the “get laid, get wasted’ for
mula for nirvana seems to have lost 4
little something. Somehow, drinking
bourbon until you throw up just
doesn’t have the same charm it use

slogan grownups concocted to 7

experienced it, that depravity and
decadence could actually be boring
— and ultimately unsatisfying’

*I’ve learned a lot about the subtle
ways that we influence each other, {
both positively and negatively.

On the plus side, I’ve seen an Honor
System that, to the degree it fune-
tions, does so largely because of @
unique form of peer pressure. * ®
believe it was Mike McAlevey who |
first offered the thesis that people *
around here don’t cheat because it's
not cool to; I think he’s largely CF |
rect — and hope it stays that way. On
another matter, an administrator
noted the other day that the environ-
ment here promotes civility to the
point that even students who violent-
ly disagree with him are never |
theless “unfailingly polite” in doing
so

to.
But who would believe, had he no!
¢
5

On the down side, I’ve come to
realize that the elitist notions many 9
of us possess when we come here are
reinforced to an alarming degree. A
prospective student who missed §.
lacrosse practice at one of Philadel- ¥
phia’s top prep schools to toodle down
here in his 900S a few weekends ago
was aghast at how snobbish and
harsh we are. That’s a bad sign. |
Although you’d never know it from
listening to a lot of conversations
around here, there surely are worse
things in the world than blends and
fake Vuarnets. They don’t come to
mind, but I’ll take it on faith thatF
they’re out there.

When you’re little, they teach youF:
to treat others the way you want to be
treated in return. That’s probably’
good advice as far as it goes, but it’s
a bit simplistic and not very pra
tical. Around here, I’ve discoverea/
that people generally are treated the ’
way they expect to be regarded. It’sh
easy to see with women: Some ex
pect to be treated as your equal,c!
some as your superior, and others ex
pect to be abused — and are rarelyvi
disappointed. I’ve notice among bothh
men and-women I’ve met in the las
four years that winners know theyr
are and project it; the weak and
unstable telegraph their character
just as clearly.

eDespite what we’re taught in col
lege about rational-decision theory)
and so forth, I’ve discovered that the
“no guts, no glory” approach to life is
the one taken by most successful peo
ple, whether it involves choices isp’!
their career, investments or relationti:
ships. Although I admit to reserva
tions about this philosophy when ap
plied indiscriminately to foreigr
policy, as a guide for personal deci h
sions I think it’s generally sound, |

After four years, I can graph sup}
ply and demand, discuss the strucfP
ture of political systems and tell yo
a little about diplomatic history. It’{hé
for the less tangible lessons, thoughP*
that Washington and Lee has been in:
valuable. r

“Have a nice life.” ce

If the last four years are any i’
dication.... ps

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  

he

eee

 

Virginia:

In response to your letter following the Univer-
sity of Virginia-Washington and Lee lacrosse
game on March 22, we grant your demand and
send our sincerest apologies for our behavior.
We have no excuse for the ‘deplorable in-
cidents” you described. For our part, we
apologize to the university community and re-
quest your forgiveness. For your part, however,
we wish to call attention to certain phrasing in
your letter we feel is hypocritical and entirely
uncalled for. To do this, we compare ‘‘the worst
afternoon of your lives’ to a similar event, a
U.Va. football game.

As U.Va. students, you surely have attended
football games at Scott Stadium and witnessed
the behavior of the student section. Despite the
attempted regulation of alcoholic beverages
within the stadium, we recall seeing a large
number of flasks and quite a few ‘‘extremely
drunken, obnoxious young men.’’Perhaps that is
why Scott Stadium has such a section, to
separate such behavior and thereby prevent it
from creating ‘‘an unforgettable inpression of
your university.” Or does separation justify such
behavior?

Secondly, in regard to parents with children in
the crowd, they ‘‘no doubt receive a wonderful
and enlightening education” from the U.Va.
Marching Pep Band at halftime. Members of
your university will forever defend the antics of
the infamous Pep Band, but how can one defend
a group that mocks the discipline of the U.S.
Naval Academy Marching Band, taunts the lack
of birth control on the campus of West Virginia
University, or depicts the use of drug parapher-
nalia for a chemistry project on the grounds of
its own University” We cui iaiuiy do not wanl vu
children receiving such an education.

 

Finally, in regard to the verbal abuse and
“certain four-letter words,’ we ask Mr. Hogan
and Mr. Sandridge if they have ever attended a
game at Scott Stadium (or anywhere) in which
similar verbal abuse was not used? We feel that
such behavior is no way to judge ‘‘the breadth of
one’s learning.” If it is indeed a veritable com-
parison, where does your university stand?

We are not attempting to justify our behavior
on March 22; we sincerely apologize for those ac-
tions you found offensive. However, we suggest
that in the future, if you are going to speak for
the whole university, you exercise better judg-
ment in your condemnations.

E.G. Allen
Class of 1988
Don Thayer
Class of 1988

Reader decries ego
of senior columnist

To the editors:

I wish that for just one time you could stand in-
side my shoes,
You'd know what a drag it is to see you.
—Bob Dylan
I thought that by the time a person was a
senior at Washington and Lee he would under-
stand that his peers have outgrown the rather
childish habit of making rash generalizations
and inane statements concerning his fellow
students. In reading last week’s ‘‘My View,” the
humorous way the article had been written in the
past seemed to be thrown aside and in its place
were petty comments of a person seeking some

sort of vendetta. Basically, does not the autho!
frei a better to say? The man is a

nglish major, a Phi Beta Kappa, supposed!
one of the best-educated and belahieet potent
on campus but he has nothing humorous nor e
lightening to say but to be caustic. The artic!
was as obnoxious as possible; I guess he used a
his English major facilities to prove he ha
learned how to use polysyllabic dialect, I don’
want to mention the name of the author of t
May 8 “My View”’ because seeing his name iit
print seems to add to his already obese eg
enough so he feels far enough above everyong
else that he can pass judgment on his peers. |
that is all the author has gained from spendin
four years at W&L, then he has definitely waste
many professors’ time,

    
 
 
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
    
  
   

William F. Jones Jr
Class of '86

Trio regrets lax manners |”
To the editors: |

In respose to the April 24th letter written b
Mr. Hogan and Mr. Goagen and Mr. Sandridgfe
along with the wishes of the Student Contrd ~
Committee, we would like to apologize for our aq
tions during the Washington and Lee Universit
of Virginia lacrosse game on March 22. 0
behavior was not intended to insult anyone, big °
nevertheless we would like to offer our since.”
apologies to anyone who was offended. a

Michael Buttaraz4 ve

Class of 198F, &
Lester Co

Class of 198§

Don Thaye s

Class of 1 bi

 

—!"!
|

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

 

vontract
jlan to end

ANIEL BUNCH
Reporter

 

  

dhanges in the General Head-
 @rters tavern next year will in-
, We an end to the policy allowing

Bing hall contract patrons and
 Shmen to eat for free in the GHQ,
_ danend to the sale of beer in pitch-

$ during Wednesday night con-

= ervices Director Gerald J.
) iFrell said this week that the first
| ange has been caused by the limit-
) Capability of the GHQ kitchen in
> # face of the great success of the

Ba

et
we
eal

cs

We Created a monster,” Darrell

e other change will occur
eause of “‘a problem down there
N underage people drinking
- @,” Darrell said.
- I combat the problem, beer will
Z perved one glass at a time and the
ent Activities Board, which runs
0 2 ‘Wednesday Night in the GHQ”
y Ows, will be given money to hire
e pple to patrol the crowd to make
\ Fe no underage students are drink-
dg.
- Phe new Virginia drinking age of 21
n pet into effect in July, prompting
ofrell to change the focus of the
d
.

i

1
r
2

Pe

ern — then called the Cockpit

om a beer tavern toa restaurant.
n With that change came the policy
s Pwing dining hall patrons — those
e; contract and those using point
dfds — to eat their meals in the
ofQ in order to offset falling beer
tS.

he contract plan had to be stop-
u8, Darrell said, because the tavern
eb Serving “up to 150 dinners a
yuit, and we couldn't get food out of
e kitchen ‘
( } said he has asked the Universi-
money to expand the kitchen,
1 Was turned down.
‘she underage drinking problem
x4 arisen even though the SAB
cf customers’ ages at the door

   

xi bartenders check them before
lwing beer, Darrell said.

ththe GHQ hasn’t had any problems
Sh the Alcoholic Beverage Control
rd this year, Darrell said.

think they realize we made

   
  
 

 

   

Sunshine

Freshman Alexa Salzman of Atlanta takes in some sun-
shine on the Colonnade recently. Sunbathing activities

this weekend.

By Steve Sadler /The Calyx

will be coming to a halt soon, as showers are predicted

SATs rise for
Class of 1990

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

The average SAT scores of high
school seniors coming to W&L next
year are 13 points higher than this
year’s freshman class, according to
Director of Admissions William M.
Hartog.

Potential students offered admis-
sion for next year had average SAT
scores of 590 verbal and 630 math, for
a total of 1220. Freshmen this year
had SAT averages of 580 verbal and
617 math, for a total of 1197.

The University received 2,417 ap-
plications for admission to next
year’s freshman class and accepted
892, or 37 percent. So far, eight people
from the waiting list have been of-
fered admission, as opposed to 41
people from the waiting list last year.

Last year, W&L had 2,639 ap-
plicants. This year’s total is down 8
percent from last year, but Hartog
pointed out that this is not because of
declining interest in W&L, but
because the Admissions Office has
made an effort this year not to en-
courage applicants who have slim
chances of being accepted.

The number of visitors to W&L has
doubled in the last two years, and the
number of contacts from potential
applicants has increased significant-
ly, Hartog said.

Of the 892 offered admission, 650
are men and 242 are women. Six are
minorities. Of these students, 425
have confirmed their admission by

sending in their $250 deposit. May 1
was the deadline for confirming.

The University has a goal of 410
students for the class of 1990, with a
composition of 290 men and 120
women. So far, 304 men and 121
women have confirmed. Past ex-
perience has shown that enough
students will change their minds over
the summer that the numbers will be
down within the guidelines by
September, Hartog noted.

Seventy-one of the incoming
freshmen held major student offices
in high school, 103 were captains of
varsity sports teams and 43 were
editors of their school publications.

Next year’s class has an average
class rank in the 81st percentile, com-
pared with this year’s 82nd percen-
tile. Sixty percent are from public
schools and 40 percent are from
private schools.

“What we have is a class that has
demonstrated excellence in and out
of the classroom .... We had a really
outstanding year. We were totally
surprised by the yield,”’ Hartog said.

“The real determining factor will
be three or four years down the road,
when this class has had a chance to
prove itself at W&L.”’

The class of 1990 will come from 34
states and the District of Columbia.
as well as four foreign countries.
Virginia is the home of 62 of the
students.

Next year’s freshman class con-
sists of 46 sons and 18 daughters of
alumni.

Sororities won’t come to W&L until 1988-89

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s Greek com-
munity may expand next year with
the addition of sororities. Word of
their possible development has been
circulating around campus for sev-
eral months, including conflicting ac-

- counts of the actual steps being taken

to make sororities a reality at W&L.
Freshman Caroline Boone of Hous-
ton says she has worked closely with

Associate Dean of Students Anne
C.P. Schroer and the Greek Commit-
tee of the ‘Women’s Forum to exa-
mine the possibility of sororities as
an alternative for women in upcom-
ing years.

“Sororities will offer women the
opportunity to pull together and ac-
tively participate in the social life
here by sponsoring parties with the
fraternities and as separate groups,”
Boone said.

Representatives of 13 national sor-
orities have contacted the University

about the possibility of colonization
on campus. Kappa Alpha Theta, Del-
ta Delta Delta, Beta Pi Phi and Kap-
pa Kappa Sigma are some of the bet-
ter known sororities included in this
list that have shown strong interest in
establishing chapters here. Research
is being conducted to find out more
about each sorority and how they
might be beneficial to Washington:
and Lee. ;
From the original list of 13 soro®
rities, five or six chapters will be in-
vited to visit W&L to make presenta-

tions to women students next fall.
The women’s interest will play a ma-
jor role in determining whether soro-
rities will be accepted or rejected
here, as a social outlet for women,
Boone said. If the women show in-
terest in the institution of sororities,
a rush will be initiated during winter
term next year.

Actual colonization of recognized
national chapters will not take place
until the 1988-89 school year. The
establishment of sorority houses, will

not be an issue until that time.

President John D. Wilson, Dean of
Students Lewis G. John and the Inter-
fraternity Council all have ap-
proved the steps taken so far toward
sorority colonization and develop-
ment. The real test now, of the
sororities acceptance, will come
from the male majority’s reaction in
the W&L community, Boone said.

“ think that it is important that the
men realize that we are not trying to
hurt W&L’s fraternity system or take
over their houses,” Boone explained.

 

inv TEVEN POCKRASS
ntial to The Phi

 

 

en the seven-school exchange program
hich Washington and Lee participates
begun early in the 1970s, one of its key
isions was that host schools would not
Ppt exchange students as transfers.

BI
Cl

; hat rule was reaffirmed last Thursday at
exchange officers’ meeting at Hollins Col-
np, but it should in no way affect the status
ree exchange students who have recent-
considered transfering, according to

iate Dean of the College Pamela H.
pson.

e of these students, Randolph-Macon
an’s College junior Elise Gaston, has
allowed to apply to W&L because of
misinformation she received from an
C dean. Gaston, 21, completed her
fer application during spring vacation

yesterday.

A second student, Marguerite Ayers, a
Hollins College sophomore, is withdrawing
from that school and plans to attend Col-
orado University in her hometown of Boulder
this fall. By leaving Hollins, Ayers will be
allowed to apply for transfer toW&L.

“T think the cases were pretty well decid-
ed’’ before the meeting, Simpson said. ‘Elise
has been allowed to apply. Marguerite plans
to sever her connection by applying to
another school.’”’

Although she will not be a Hollins student
when she applies to W&L, Ayers has express-
ed fears that her participation in the ex-
change program still will work against her.
Simpson said it won’t.

“] think her application will be considered
totally on its own merits,” Simpson said.
“My own personal feeling is that what
Marguerite’s going through is not something
most students would normally do.”

Ayers’ case closely parallels that of
Kathleen Plante, a junior dormitory
counselor who transferred to W&L from
Hollins after participating in the exchange
program from January to December 1984.

Plante had no intention of returning to
Hollins and withdrew from that school before
applying to W&L. She was not enrolled at any
school between January and September 1985,
although she did receive some academic
credit for independent work that she did
while on a six-month trip to Japan. Both she
and Ayers said one of the major reasons they
wanted to transfer was because Hollins did
not offer majors in their fields of interest.

Plante also received permission from the
presidents of both schools to transfer.

A previous case in which presidential per-
mission came into play was mentioned in a

background discussion of the exchange pro-
gram, presented by David W. Holmes,
associate dean for student academic affairs
at Hollins.

Holmes said he remembered a woman
from R-MWC transfering to Hollins after be-
ing an exchange student. Paula J. Wallace,
associate dean of students at R-MWC, said in
an interview that she thought a second stu-
dent might have transfered to Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland.

Simpson said one of the main reasons for
the non-transfer agreement was to prevent
home institutions from losing their best
students.

W&L has similar exchange agreements
with Chung Chi College of the Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Rikkyo University
in Tokyo and the Kansai University of
Foreign Studies near Kyoto, Japan, said
Roger B. Jeans Jr., an associate professor of
history and director of East Asian Studies at
W&L.

Jeans said a student from Chung Chi had
asked about transfering to W&L earlier this
year. Jeans wrote to Chung Chi on her behalf
and said he received a ‘‘crystal clear

eaffirmation of exchange rule won’t affect applicants

but had not heard back from W&L as of

answer”’ from officials there that exchange
students had a moral obligation to return.

W&L has received one or two exchange
students from Chung Chi every year since
1973, and the transfer question arises every
few years, Jeans said.

Simpson and Holmes expressed positive
feelings about their meeting, which also was
attended by exchange officers from R-MWC,
Hampden-Sydney College, Sweet Briar Col-
lege and Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland. Mary Baldwin College, the seventh
member of the exchange group, was not
represented at the meeting.

Simpson said all the officers in attendance
affirmed their belief in the rule and agreed
on the need to counsel students to make them
better aware of the non-transfer provision
and other alternatives to transfering. She
also said that exchange applications would
be altered to make it clear that by par-
ticipating in the program, students would
forfeit the opportunity to transfer,

taff Reports

 

Sydney Lewis, founder
and president of Best Pro-
ducts Co., will deliver the
address at commencement
exercises of the Washing-
ton and Lee School of Law
on Sunday, May 25.

The ceremony will be
held at 2:30 p.m. on the
lawn in front of the Presi-
dent's House. In the event
of rain, the ceremony will
be moved to Warner Cen-
“A ter.

j W&L expects to award

juris doctor degrees to 114
third-year students.
SYDNEY LEWIS A 1940 alumnus, Lewis
iso attended W&L’s School of Law, the Harvard
raduate School of Business Administration, and the
éorge Washington School of Law. A generous benefac-
br, Lewis and his wife, Frances, donated $9 million in
72 for construction of the Lewis Hall, which houses
/&L’s law school. Lewis is a trustee emeritus.

Lewis founded Best Products, the nation’s largest dis-
punt catalog showroom merchandiser, in 1951. He also

i served as vice president of New Standard
ublishing Co,
a

    
  
  
   
 
 

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Lewis has served as a trustee of the Hirshon Museum
in Washington, the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, the
Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia, and
Virginia Union Universitv.

Washington and Lee will award its undergraduate
degrees during commencement exercises on June 5.

Photographer focuses on W&L

Students wondering about the helicopter buzzing the
Colonnade last week need not worry that the campus
was under attack. The helicopter was under the direc-
tion of William Strode, a Pulitzer Prize-winning
photographer.

Strode and his company, Harmony House Publishers
of Louisville, are preparing a large, case-bound and
dust-jacketed coffee-table book on Washington and Lee.
The book is part of Harmony House’s ‘American Col-
lege Series”’ that has already featured detailed looks at
Centre College, the University of the South, the Univer-
sity of South Carolina and Rhodes College.

Strode — a regular contributor to National Geograph-
ic, Town & Country, Time, Life, and other publications
worldwide — began his photography work at W&L last
summer and will continue through commencement ex-
ercises next month. Selected passages from W&L’s
literary ard social past and rare old photographs from
the University’s archives will accompany Strode’s
photographs.

The book, to be published in time for Christmas 1986,

will be officially announced to alumni in October and
November. Pians are underway to have the book avail-
able in bookstores throughout Virginia and the South by
early December.

Professor to be keynote speaker

Tom L. Beauchamp, professor of philosophy and
senior research scholar at Georgetown. University’s
Kennedy Institute of Ethics, will be the keynote speaker
for Washington and Lee’s annual Medical Ethics In-
stitute on Friday.

Beauchamp’s lecture is titled “Is There a Right to
Health Care?” It will be presented at 8 p.m. in
Classroom E of Lewis Hall. The lecture is free and open
to the public.

The Medical Ethics Institute is part of W&L’s pro-
gram in applied ethics, ‘‘Society and the Professions,”
The three-day institute will involve students, faculty,
physicians, and other specialists in health care areas in
a series of seminars and discussions of case studies.

Science papers read at JMU

Washington and Lee students and faculty were well
represented at the 64th annual meeting of the Virginia
Academy of Science. The meeting was held May 13-16 at
James Madison University in Harrisonburg,

Seniors Shawn Harvey, John McCaffrey, Michael
Blackwood and Joe Whelan, juniors Chris Talley, Mark
Whiteford, John Carder and Jett Mandak and sopno-

Best Products founder to address Law School graduates

more Brian Haggerty joined professors James K. Shil-
lington and Michael A. Pleva in presenting three papers
in the chemistry section.

Senior Jim Sperka teamed with Professor George S.
Whitney to present a paper in the chemistry section.
Whitney also presented a paper individually in the
same section.

Senior Barry Funkhouser and Professor David Elmes
presented a paper in the psychology section. Senior
John-Paul Bouffard and junior Andrew Tartaglione
joined Elmes and Professor Joseph B. Thompson in
presenting a psychology paper.

Senior Lester Johnson, junior John Carder, Bouffard,
Talley and Mandak joined Professor Leonard E. Jar-
rard in presenting three different papers in the
psychology division.

James Knox of the biology department made a
presentation in the biology section.

Visiting professor to give lecture

Christopher Pelling, visiting professor of English,
will deliver a public lecture Tuesday at 4 p.m. in Room
21 of Payne Hall.

The lecture is titled “Biography: Ancient and
Modern” and is open to the public. A reception will
follow.

Pelling is a fellow and praelector in classics at
University College, Oxford.

Pelling’s presentation is the sixth in a series of
seminars sponsored by the English department.

 

 

<DEL LE LEAL LLC

SR eS ae tes ad ater ere

 
é Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

=
I
t
i

s
=

a et ot

1

]
(

é

{

] :

 

Movie about
pornography

attracts 250

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

 

Students sell
pro-coed shirt

sale for $8 at the beginning of spring’
term and almost all of the 127 shirts,
made are now sold out.

 

Senior Lou Mondello, who owns 4’

» The old cliche ‘sex sells’ proved
its validity last Thursday evening,
when about 250 people packed Nor-
then Auditorium to see a documen-
tary on pornography and participate
in a two-hour post-film discussion.

“Not A Love Story’’ wasn’t the
Jatest Student Activities Board
revenue-raiser, and it wasn't produc-
ed to be viewed by a howling group of
fraternity brothers throwing beer
‘cans at the explicit scenes on the
screen.

Instead, the film portrayed por-
nography as a social problem with
pervasive influence that a faculty
panel said needs to be recognized as
something other than a source of
entertainment.

One of the panelists, W&L Law

| :Professor Andrew W. McThenia Jr.,

|

said the film relayed its message on

‘ “very disturbing and fundamental

levels.”

‘ “It was a gut-wrenching movie
‘that produced a period of audience
silence when it ended,’ McThenia
said.

Another member of the panel,
University Counseling Psychologist
James W. Worth, said pornography
tends to bring about a desensitization
toward the personal aspects of sex,
and ‘“‘sends bad messages about how
men and women are sexual with one
another.”’

McThenia said people sometimes
attempt to detach themselves from
the people on the screen in these
movies, failing to acknowledge that
the subject matter pertains to them

as well.

Psychology Professor Nancy A.
Margand, another member of the
panel, said men are the main con-
sumers of pornography. This raised
several questions from the audience
about the different perceptions men
and women have about sex, and why
a magazine such as Playgirl has a
lower circulation than many of its
“‘male magazine’’ counterparts.

The exploitation of women that
Margand said is persistent in this

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi
Left to right, Novack, McThenia, Worth, Schroer and Margand discuss the film

 

subject matter creates misconcep-
tions about gender and sexual
dominance.

The discussion, McThenia said,
showed ‘“‘an attitude change by and
large among the males in the au-
dience who came to affirm por-
nography as a degrading product.”

Other issues raised in the discus-
sion included the violence prevalent
in pornography and the debate over
censorship of films and other
materials.

Although the decision to make
Washington and Lee a co-educational
institution has been criticized on
bumperstickers, and the idea that
“the roadtrip continues”’ is announc-
ed on T-shirts, four W&L students
now are selling a T-shirt with a pro-
coed slogan.

The shirts are white with blue let-
tering and read ‘“W&L Women...
Quality Doesn’t Need to Travel.”

‘“‘We came up with the idea in fun
and thought it was time for a pro-
coed T-shirt,” said freshman Jenny
Bray, who said she has sold the shirt
to male and female members of the
student body and the faculty.

Reaction to the shirt has been very
good, according to Bray. “I think a
lot of people have enjoyed it and very
much felt that it was about time for
that shirt,’ she said. “It makes a
statement, but a fun statement.”’

She said the idea came about after
she and a group of friends were jok-
ing about the anti-coed slogans on
campus last term. The shirts went on

shirt that reads “W&L Class of ‘96 ,
The Last Class With Balls,’’ said he
likes seeing a shirt with a different*
point of view. ¥
“After all the stuff that guys have
put about the girls, I think it’s prett;‘'
good that someone had the guts to put,
something like that out,’ he said.

-
Senior Ted LeClercq, who helped _,
fund the project and sells the shirt,"
said he’s glad he is involved. j
“It’s a shirt that says something
positive about coeducation,’’ he said. *
“T think it’s long overdue.” i
“The slogan was not nearly as im-
portant as the concept of it being a*
positive message,”’ LeClercq said.,
“It could have said anything that was
just catchy, as long as it was positive *
as far as I’m concerned.”’

.

LeClereq said he has not heard any,
women’s college students’ reaction to
the shirt, but said he thinks they will®©
create a shirt in response to this one. ,

Would he buy it? “If it were good,
perhaps,” he said. &

*

 

Lacrosse

’ Continued from Page 1

 

’ whom are members of the committee.

“T think it’s important that [the proposal]

} go before the Board so as to meet the NCAA
_ deadline,” Wilson said this morning. ‘‘I see
' the merits of the recommendation and I am

impressed by the quality of the thinking of

’ the committee.”

cites the increasing

The proposal

; prevalence of athletic grants-in-aid in Divi-
» sion I lacrosse and the negative effect W&L’s
‘ lack of competitiveness in Division I has had
‘ upon athletes and coaches as reasons for
, making the move to Division Ill.

“Given the expansion of subsidized

’ lacrosse in Division I,” the proposal reads,

‘with special concessions in admissions and

> with some colleges awarding as many as
‘ fourteen athletic scholarships to their teams,
* the Committee has concluded that remaining
: at Division I would constitute an unaccep-
‘ table hardship on coaches and players.”

“To team morale it would be harmful; to

the achievement and recognition of in-
dividual and team excellence it would be in-
imical.”’

Yesterday’s meeting was the committee’s
second in the last eight days regarding the

divisional status of lacrosse. At the previous
meeting, held May 14, the committee voted
to recommend a move to Division III, accor-
ding to Machado, after which a preliminary
proposal was drawn up for yesterday’s

without the lure of athletic scholarships.
“In this day and age, with the cost of living

‘what it is, any sort of break is enticing to

parents and students,” the Generals’ third-
year coach said.

meeting. Dean John said he agreed that a move
Machado said Wilson asked the committee needs to be made. A change in divisions ‘‘is
to consider the matter. no panacea, no cure-all, but at least in Divi-

The committee’s recommendation comes
on the heels of the lacrosse team’s fourth
straight losing season, the worst slump since
W&L decided to compete in Division I (where
scholarships are allowed) in 1971, yet
operate under the financial guidelines (no
athletic grants-in-aid) of Division III.

Wilson said it was important for the Board
to consider the matter now, but the debate
should be free and open.

Head lacrosse coach Dennis A. Daly said
the committee’s recommendation is a step in
the right direction.

“It was a wise decision. It was a sensible
decision, and obviously it was well thought
out,”’ Daly said, adding, ‘‘It does not make
any sense to continue to compete with so-
meone who is using a different deck of cards
or a stacked deck.”’

Wilson said yesterday the changes in the
Division I game — with bigger universities
offering more scholarships to players — ‘‘are
not ina direction we areprepared to follow.”’

Daly said vecreitieg Yea suffered because

W&L cannot attract the top-flight player

sion III there’s a realistic chance to compete
for the national championship,’ he said.
John’s son, Chris, senior co-captain for the
lacrosse team and a student representative
on the athletic committee, agreed that W&L

would have a better chance at going to the .

national tournament in Division III. ‘““Why
not compete against them? Had we been
Division III this year, some games might
have been different,” he said.

He noted that the extra incentive of a na-
tional tournament bid may have worked to
the favor of Roanoke College in its upset win
over W&L last month. The Maroons won
17-14 and were the last team invited to the
Division III national tournament.

In addition to competing for the Division
III title, the reclassification would mean that
more than half the games W&L plays would
have to be against Division III opponents.

Wilson stressed that the University should
seek to compete with schools that have an
academic-athletic orientation similar to
W&L’s, whether that be in Division III or
Division I.

Members of the committee agreed that the
negative effect of consistent losing seasons in
Division I upon the W&L student-athletes
was a key factor in their recommendation.

“The student members of the committee
let us know that morale on the team-was very
low,” said Biology Professor John J.
Wielgus, who co-authored the proposal with
History Professor Machado. ‘‘At Washington
and Lee, the students come first, and in my
own mind we should not have a program that
is demoralizing to our students.”’

John, who as a senior has felt the brunt of
the four straight losing seasons, voiced the
despair of a player. ‘‘It has been a very, very
frustrating four years for me,” he said, in-
dicating that it was ‘‘demoralizing”’ to play
the top-rate Division I programs — those
competing for a tournament bid — and
always lose.

“We're spinning our wheels,” John said.

McHenry said this morning that it is
becoming increasingly apparent that only
teams that give athletic scholarships will be
able to compete for the Division I national
championship in lacrosse.

“T feel our student-athletes are at a severe
disadvantage at the Division I level in com-
peting for a spot in the national tournament,
in earning All-America recognition, and are
not even able to be recognized by a con-
ference,’”’ McHenry said. “This is not in line
with our total Division III philosophy.”’

Machado indicated that a concern of the ©

committee was that another season in Divi- *

sion I might risk “greater demoralization,” © ,
Ancient Languages Professor Herman
Taylor, another member of the committee, *
expressed this concern. “My impression is «
that it would be bad to let it wait another ,

year,” he said. ‘‘I really feel that you ought
to be competitive, that you feel like you have *
a good chance at making the playoffs.”’ e
With only 10 days left to file a request for. ,
divisional change with the NCAA, the
timeliness of the issue is of concern to many. “#*
“(The decision] should be — if it is at all,
possible — made for next year,’ Dean John’
said, ‘‘but it is not absolutely essential.” © _**

:

He noted, however, that since a softer Divi+',

 

sion I schedule had been tried this season’ +»

(with the removal of North Carolina se
Maryland from the schedule and the addititn,
of middle-of-the-pack Division I progrants:
like Notre Dame and Dartmouth), now may'*
be the time to make a move. a
McHenry agrees. ‘‘Any delay might put us: _
further behind in our efforts to stay com-:
petitive in Division III on the national level.” *
John said he would like to see his team-
mates play Division III next year and end the
frustration. “I don’t want the juniors to go
out without having a winning season,” he:
said. ‘I see absolutely no reason in wasting a
year in Division I. I don’t want the guys feel-
ing the way I feel right now.” 4

 

be fully subscribed.

storage at $44,000.

Tom Baker
403-2510
Evenings

 

Ni?

BORDEN
COMMONS

For

MARKETED BY

Baker Real Estate
Lexington, Virginia
703-463-7319

 

The Ideal Investment

Alumni, Parents of Students and Real Estate Investors

Baker Real Estate announces a new offering in Phase II of Borden Com-
mons near Washington and Lee Campus, offers affordable, cost-efficient
housing for students and young professionals, and like Phase I will rapidly

Scheduled for occupancy Fall Semester 1986, pre-construction reservations
are being taken now. 90% financing available to qualified purchases. On-
site management is available through Baker Real Estate.

One bedroom with fully equipped kitchens, central air and plenty of

Dick Emrey
463-4302
Evenings

 

 

 

Zero

( Continued from Page |!

 

background like a real-life “Miami Vice” episode.

Like the hit songs that serve as the book’s unifying
theme, ‘‘Less Than Zero” is a novel that purports to be a
pop artifact. It is a quick read, it presents and does not
comment, and it relies for impact on its immediacy — the
book is written in the present tense. Moreover, the rock
songs and music videos sprinkled throughout the novel
most likely will be forgotten in 10 years. Which, of course,
is the point.

Like a true piece of pop art, ‘‘Less Than Zero”’ relies
heavily on shock value. Ellis starts off innocently enough
There is nothing too entirely shocking about college kids
snorting cocaine. The streamlined and rapid nature of
Ellis’ prose, however, pulls the reader along as if he were
chasing an ambulance. As the story progresses, so does
heavily on shock value. Ellis starts off innocently enough.
There is nothing too entirely shocking about college kids
witnessed a ‘‘snuff film’ (a pornographic film that con-
cludes with the actual murder of the female), has watch-
ed a girl shoot heroin and has accompanied a friend on a

male prostitution “trick.” These events are piled on oné
after another until the novel’s message comes through,
loud and clear: When one sees too much too early, excite-
ment comes at a much higher price. &
A poster of Elvis Costello that hangs on Clay’s bedroom
wall serves as one of the novel’s most arresting visual im-
ages. The word ‘‘trust’”’ is scrawled along the bottom of
the poster, alluding to the old joke, “You know how to say
‘trust me’ in L.A.?” Two-thirds of the way through the
novel, Clay breaks down in his psychiatrist’s office and
shows emotion for the only time in the book. Hanging on
the wall behind Clay is another Costello poster, this time
with the words, “Elvis Costello Repents,”’ printed in
large, white letters. The psychiatrist observes Clay's
pea and says, ‘‘ ‘Come on, Clay... Don’t be so...mun;
ne.’ ” .

 

|

| -

|
|
|

|

on
“Less Than Zero” is not a modern “Catcher In Thé |

Rye.” Nor is Bret Ellis a “voice for a generation.” In
deed, Ellis still has to prove if his pop novel is a controlled
piece of literary craft or just a lucky first shot. Like the
pop songs after which it is modeled, the book could ver¥
well see its Warholian ‘15 minutes of fame’’ and thep
drift quietly into obscurity. The most disconcerting thing
about this idea, of course, is that that might very well bé
the whole point. é
Less than zero, indeed.

‘

 

 

 

eatin “ed Room ay ne exon a 2 Wendell’s
H] 26, at 7 p.m. ington Herd

SERVIGTAR.

 
     
     

 

 
     
  

  

   
  

Ala Carte Pricing

Reservations Suggested—

  
 

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

    

  

     
   

WC

Ge Maple Hall
New Hours Ine
apa Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00 ed ;
INNS Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00
your head

NEW EXPANDED MENU

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Lexington - Gourmet Items of All Nations
463. Cocktails® Wine® Beer
Hours:

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Restaurant and Del

 

   
  
    
 
  
  

  
    
      
  
 
 
 

PPR lege ss

 
   

for my business’

pt

=

ie

  

i wre

      
       
   
 
 

 
 

ee

Rg gm

ee ee ee eh ee ee
The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986, Page 5

Bleggi named W&L’s MVP__| What we owe
aE Wa&L lacrosse

Assistant Sports Editor
Open letter to the Board of Trustees:

....Do you remember that game
they used to play on Sesame Street?
You know, “One of these things is
not like the other, one of these things
just doesn’t belong...'’ Maybe a sam-
ple game will help. Virginia, North
Carolina, Johns Hopkins, Washing-
ton and Lee. ‘‘One of these things...”

Washington and Lee does not
belong in Division I lacrosse, for
the same reason it does not play in Division I football or Division I ten-
nis. And this is not an idle suggestion, this is a call for immediate (this
weekend) action. You can talk about the budget, the Annual Fund, and
Gaines Hall some other time. If something constructive isn’t done at
your meeting this weekend, you are damaging this school’s greatest
asset, its students.

You wouldn’t send your best friend out into the rain with only some
old newspapers to keep him from getting wet on his walk home. You
wouldn’t ask yur parents for a graduation gift you knew they couldn't
afford. You wouldn’t try to make chicken soup if you didn’t have any
chickens. Yet, that is what you are doing — more often than not — if
you ask W&L’s lacrosse players to play against Division I programs.
And that’s not fun.

If you were doing something and it really wasn’t all that much fun
anymore, common sense tells us that you'd have two options: stop do-
ing it or find some way to make what you’re doing fun. As far as I can
see, there is nothing all that much fun about Washington and Lee
lacrosse anymore, and if you care anything about the program, its
athletes, its coaches, its fans — I think you are obliged to make the

 

 

‘

 

Given the sparse crowds that
patronize most Washington and Lee
atiletic events, it’s a safe bet that a
lol of this school’s athletes could walk
down the Colonnade without fe: r of
regognition by their classmates.

laboring in this relative obscurity
can be very difficult for the athletes,
so the athletic department has devis-
eda way around this problem.

Beginning at 6:30 yesterday morn-
ing, several coaches spent most of
dhe day cooking barbequed chicken
for the evening’s event — the W&L
Sports Awards Banquet.

Some twelve hours later, Chris
Bleggi would walk off with the P.R.
Brown Most Valuable Athlete Award
as the University’s outstanding
senior athlete.

The annual picnic honoring those
so, often overlooked by the students
was held at Wilson Field last night.

‘Awards were voted upon by the
eqaches in every varsity sport, as
well as in seven ‘‘special’’
cdtegories.

These additional prizes ranged in
nature from student service awards

TIME

‘= | OUT...
% wy

By Mike

Stachura

  

 

i

 

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi
Major Departmental Award Winners at yesterday’s All-Sports Banquet (1 to r): Ted Goebel, Chris
Bleggi, Bill Holmes, Larry Anker, Tom Skeen, Elizabeth Miles, Mike Stachura along with Athletic
Director William McHenry.

Richard E. Yeakel, who died in
November, was added to the pro-

Award for student service was pre-
sented to Senior Ted Goebel, who

academic All-American. A triple ma-
jor in chemistry, physics, and

to’ the trophy for the University’s

most ‘wahle athlete, won by
Blegg

"Th as named All-ODAC in
foot? was also ODAC indoor
trac sues of-the-Year.

‘Said Bleggi, ‘This [winning the
award] is a goal you set for yourself
at the beginning of the year but don’t

gram.

The R.E. “Chub” Yeakel Award,
created to recognize outstanding con-
tributions to W&L athletics, was
awarded to Ring-tum Phi Sports
Editor Mike Stachura.

“Mr. Yeakel was a special per-
son,”’ said Stachura. ‘I am very pro-
ud to receive the award not only

served as student manager for both
the baseball and the football teams
for four years.

Tom Skeen and Elizabeth Miles
were named the outstanding fresh-
man male and female athletes of the
year.

Skeen was a second team All-ODAC
punter and linebacker for the football
team and Miles was an All-American

mathematics, Anker has a GPA over
3.8.

Said Anker, ‘‘This was very impor-
tant to me, I tried to win [a similar
award] in high school but didn’t.’’ He
continued, ‘I wanted to leave my
mark and I knew I wasn’t the best
athlete so I wanted to be the best
scholar-athlete.’’ Anker added, ‘‘This

against.

game as enjoyable an exercise as possible.

It has been an ordeal even to watch W&L lacrosse this year. It has
been an ordeal because in your heart of hearts you knew W&L was
playing for nothing all season long. There was no chance of a tourna-
ment bid — despite the delusions of grandeur expressed in this space
before the U.Va. game. There was no conference championship, no all-
conference recognition for any players. It gets tough playing for pride
when you get beat 26-2 by a team you thought you’d be competitive

Let’s look at the alternatives to the way things are done now: Divi-

has driven me for four years.”’

The Wink Glasgow Spirit and
Sportmanship Award went to senior
Bill Holmes, captain of both the soc-
cer and lacrosse teams this year.

In mettle test, Hope beats Lewis
to finish first among student ironmen

Leading from the start, Hope, the
challenger, was finally caught by
Lewis, the favorite, on the last mile
of the 13.1 mile bicycle stage. The
overall winner, 35 year-old-Robert
Wright from Lynchburg, held an in-
surmountable 30-second lead, but

sion I with scholarships? A University no-no since the disaster in 1951,
and justifiably so. The scholarship does more harm than good and
seems to smack of athletics taking precedence over academics, and
that’s not a good thing, that doesn’t work here. In essence, Division I is
not an option.

Division III? Well, that’s what we are now. Let’s explain. W&L
played two of Division III’s best teams and lost both games by close
margins. Imagine W&L as a Division III team and if you don’t get ex-
cited, you don’t like lacrosse. The Generals would compete in the
ODAC, where they would battle Roanoke for the conference title. They
would battle for a national tournament. One’s reminded of the
thoughts of an NCAA lacrosse official who remarked that the Division
III tournament would be a hell of a tournament if W&L were involved.

Beyond this, though, is the idea that governed this year's lighter
Division I schedule. The philosophy was, ‘‘Let’s play schools that
place athletics in the same light as we do.” I’ll submit, however, that
as long as you’re playing a Division I opponent, you're not going to be
playing a similar opponent. The reason is simple: W&L is not a Divi-
sion I school. Operating under the financial constraints of Division II,
yet trying to play Division I, is like trying to play goalie without a
stick. You might stop a few shots, but that’s not the way the game’s

tell anybody about.”’

*This year an award named for the
former supervisor of the university’s
non-professional

because of the honor, but also
because of the man it was named
for.”

The J.L. ‘‘Lefty’’ Newell Memorial

swimmer.
The Scholar-Athlete Award went to
senior Larry Anker. Anker was cap-

athletic _ staff, tain of the wrestling team and a

 

“He lost it on the transition,’’ said
Hope. “I just tossed my bike down
and started running while he stopped
to talk to his helper.”

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

Last Saturday’s third annual
triathlon had all the makings of a
classic one-on-one confrontation with
the outcome not to be decided until

 

“He surprised me on the run,’’ said
Lewis. ‘I was catching my breath

 

 

 

‘ By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

the finish line. But it was not to be.

Senior swimmer Chris Hope, with a
time of one hour, 30 minutes and 27
seconds, edged out fellow senior
swimmer David Lewis (1:31:24) to
become the unofficial ‘‘student’’ win-
ner of the triathlon.

Due to his age, Hope, 23 years old,
doesn’t fall into the student category
of 22 years and under. As a result,

most of the attention was focused on
Lewis and Hope.

With the 5K (3.1 miles) run remain-
ing, Lewis said he was totally confi-
dent that he was going to win.

“I was unsure at that point of the
race because I knew he had been
training for the run,”’ said Hope. “‘I
had only run one time last week [in
preparation].”

But losing time in the transitional

but I was taking too much time. He
ran really well.”’ j

Hope said that besides the ‘‘friend-
ly competition’ that he had going
with Lewis, he was also out to prove
that swimmers are more than one-di-
mensional athletes.

Freshman Stephanie Smith, with a
time of 1:58:43, was the winner of the
student category for women.

“People say that the swimmers

supposed to be played.

 

 

As a final argument, just look at the national finalist men’s tennis
team. People were interested and excited about this group’s success,
as they would be if given the chance for the lacrosse team. So, let’s put
the lacrosse team where it belongs, in Division III, where it will be
competitive, where it will have something to compete for, and where
ultimately the players will have fun. We owe our athletes that much...

 

Netmen return proud

 

Lewis catured the student title while period between the bike and the run, have an advantage, but you still have
; Hope had to settle for his own per- Lewis dug himself a hole he was 0 be able to compete in all three
CHRIS HOPE sonal satisfaction. never able to climb out of. areas in order to win,’’ said Hope. a n U n g ry Oo r m Oo re
e ° . downs of the tournament. ‘‘It felt
Lexin on Bike Sho Get the ea rly ju m p ) By LEIF UELAND great the day that we made it to the
gt P Staff Reporter finals, then the day after we were all

130 S. Main

463-7969

Mountain bike special:

Ross Mt. Hood

15 speed
1985 model

Was $339°5

Now $29995

Mon.-Fri. 9-5, Sat. 9-12

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     
 

 
    
 
 
  

on your your 1986-87
subscription

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee tennis
team returned Sunday following
their impressive second-place finish
in the national championships. How-
ever, in the individual champion-
ships, the team did not perform up to
their own expectations, failing to
have a single team member attain
All-America status.

bummed out, even though we had
gotten second. We’ve come a long
way though, last year we were
eighth, and this year we're second —
the future looks good.”’

Matthews saw the tournament in a
somewhat diferent light, this being
his first year. “It really was a lot of
fun, I had a great time. Getting sec-
ond was great. The team we lost to

_ Sophomore David McLeod won his was very good and the experience
‘ So uthern first match in singles and then lost in that we got in the finals was really

|, . a tight second match. In doubles, the valuable.”’

General’s No. 2 team of sophomore
* In n For Rent Mes sag e€ To Seniors Roby Mize and freshman Bobby Mat- _Last night at the awards banquet,
. thews were able to upset the No. 5- Matthews received both the Wash-
i Welcome Large house Cap and gown will be distributed starting Mon- seeded team but then lost to an burn Outstanding Freshman Tennis
‘ Students in Lexington day, May 26 from 10 a.m. to1 p.m. A $30.00 9 unranked team. wand sad ten Memnoriel Totals Cap
‘Serving breakfast, lunch bass deposit is refundable on the day of GRADUA- fl piayers returned from California

* and dinner for over all 463-3697 TION only. expressing a multitude of sen- “That was just the way it worked,
‘ 50 years after 5 p.m. No reservations. timents, ranging from disappoint- one of the awards was for a freshman
. Main Street, Lexington ment with losses to joy at having and I am the only freshman. ! think
463-3612 been able to participate, but all of — that it's the depth of our team which
$ their statements eventually returned js the most valuable aspect,’’ Mat-

‘ EEE to one central theme — extreme op- __thews said.

= si timism towards the team’s possibil-

EAST aL EX FOR RENT Michelin B.F. Goodrich | ties for the future. The General's prospects do indeed
* Alignment * ‘iy teats that ee Gare ta look bright. The team's second place
‘ _ “til midni ; going tO finish is a testimony to their out
Phone: 463-3614 US11 North Open ‘til midnite Secured Storage Space * Brakes * nationals from the start. Last year it standing talent. Senior Scott Adams

 

Stroh’s Long necks
Natty BO ong necks ....

ees 6060 COCR EtEES

 

starting at 15°° per mo.

Pres Brown's, Inc

 

 

* Radiator Repairs x
* Swim Tubes x

 

 

was just a nice surprise, this year it
was our whole season. It was a great
accomplishment for the team to play
for the national championship,”’ Mize
commented, “This wasn’t something

is the only player not returning next
year, which being the case, there is
little doubt that the future holds only
good things for the Generals. Adams

Bh a ee Hileman Tire & Radiator I was expecting when I came to rng gph ni Coe vie
Washington and Lee. You can’t do it : ; yer ee
bia 115 W. Nelson St 536 E. Nelson St. : Athletic Director William D.
: . all in one year. We gave Kalamazoo McHenry
463-2146 their best match of the year — -

 

  
   

Students under 21

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

Sun. 1-5

 

everyone thought that they were un-
touchable.”’

while he elaborated on the ups and

[Robin + Peggy ¢ Marie ¢ Sherry

aed HORNE SEER OSE AOE COUT) OR Ge TO RED ENRON RTE SENS See ee

“Tam sorry that we couldn't bring

NEED Liu 103-463-1670 Vv back the first place trophy,’’ Adams
alley T: I rdw ' place trophy," Adz

A CAR? LULL Emergency 7ue Value Ha are Sophomore Jack Messerly express- said, “but they are going to be work-

103-377-6331 ed similar sentiments about the trip, ing real hard, and I’m sure they'll

bring it back next year.”’

Must Have

: i ‘ HARD fon A Kn, SE 5s, SAU ONE RN EMR OO ES RE ES SR RE om re wow

a sisi ko MARIE'S HAIR STYLERS 327)
a a ry

= rar ab Rt ft ET

. i / ~*~]
. , By appointment For the next 2 k ;

RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 mee Street Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00 | 463-9588 ona eee Old Main St. Malt |

Lexington Va. 24430]

 
-BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

‘Viktor Frankenstein: takes a new twist -

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The five-day run of “Viktor
Frankenstein,”’ an original produc-
tion written and directed by Drama
Professor Joseph Martinez, begins
tomorrow night at 5 p.m. at the
Boiler Room Theatre.

Although Martinez draws heavily
on the Frankenstein legend for his
play, the story line of ‘Viktor
Frankenstein’’ is original. The
playwright poses the question, “Of
what value are man’s discoveries if
they become inhumane?”

The play opens in a Vienna univer-
sity, where young Frankenstein,
played by Mathematics Professor
Vernon Eagle, is reprimanded for his
preoccupation with his own ex-
periments. After watching one of
these heinous experiements go awry,
Frankenstein becomes insane. He
recovers, returns home and falls in
love with his future wife, Elizabeth
Lavenza (freshman Delia Ford).

Elizabeth brings up Frankenstein’s
clouded past, and he flees from her in
anger. She is found dead soon there-

his ancestral home to resume his ex
periments.

There, Frankenstein takes a wan-
dering ruffian named Igor (Drama
Professor Thomas J. Ziegler) under
his wing and begins to bring his
“creation’’ to life. After that, Mar-
tinez’s story truly begins to take on a
life of its own.

The stage design is unique and
visually arresting. Designed by
Ziegler, the play’s visual environ-
ment is enhanced by slides, clever
props and innovative lighting techni-
ques. Frankenstein’s insular, tor-
tured view of the world is frequently
projected on a screen that acts as the
stage’s primary backdrop. The au-
dience is situated above the action,
as if viewing an autopsy in an
operating theater.

Doug Harwood is the audio
designer, Drama Department Chair-
man Albert C. Gordon is the costume
adviser, and Skip Epperson is
technical director.

The play is intended for mature au-
diences. Due to limited seating,
reservations are required. Tickets
may be obtained by calling the
theater office at 463-8637 between 10
a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Fri-

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi
‘

 

 

 

after, and Frankenstein returns to day.

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

Vernon Eagle (right) as Frankenstein and Mark Daughtrey appear in ‘Viktor Frankenstein’”’ .

WANED: Rasa Pox mer ane oy LVOUrNeY releases -
‘fascinating record

 

 

June 4. Will share expenses.
Call Tal McThenia
at 463-8517 or 463-7656

MMMM MMMM HEHEHE HHH

115 S. Main Street
‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

>
truckload. The idea, I gather, is that
Journey is just like the rest of lis:
“We're all raised on the radio,” sez
the chorus to the title track. And, of
By now, it is safe to say that a course, millions of people out the: re
Journey record is best judged by how are unfortunately going to nod and
bad it is, rather than how good it say, “Yup. That’s me. Wow, man
might be. Indeed, with each new _ Brilliant.”
Journey release, one must im-
mediately ask oneself: Can they ac-
tually get any worse?
Well yes, actually.

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 
   
      
     
     
  
  
  
  
   

 

Yolo lb Florist

7

How many of these songs could be
hits? Well, all of them, I suppose. Dr
none of them. It doesn’t matter, real
ly. Nothing on the record stands out,
The first single, “Be Good To YOUke
and consequently most fascinating self,” is typical Journey: a couplesof
record to date. Fascinating, primari- standard guitar chords wrapped jn
ly because it is interesting how a — |ayers of studio gloss matched with a
record this barren and vapid can go puerile, inane ly ric The son#’ S
on to sell millions of copies (which, message, by the way, is contained en-
let’s face it, this record is bound to  tirely initstitle.

do) jo” and “Be Goc
NO gy One “Raised On Radio’ and ‘Be Good
ve ee Y To Yourself” are the only “rockers”

sells millions of records. People love
P on the album as the remainder aye

ee either sappy ballads or mid-tempo
jing all. gage hr rt Age radio-fodder. ‘Once You Love

like th b f |
Se ee eee Somebody’’ purports to be a funk

Sd
 g
bd
od
.d
bd
*
®
5 4
: 5
3 1? &
ca *
Sd
. g
 d
4
*
*
*
bg
¥
bd
Bd
3
sd
*
+d
*
5d
*
*
2 *
7 sincere guys. And people buy the
ANCY DRESS I pose Buy ie y number, but it is watered down
A “Raised On Radio” is going to sell
bd
*
od
bd
4
bg
bg
x
5
bd
*
bd
*
5
+d
*
A
bd
bd
5 a
by
*
+d
*
bd
bd
bd
bg
*
*®
sd
+d
*
es

“Raised on
Radio” is Journey’s newest, worst

Not sure what to say?

S.A.B.

Flowers say it all!

165 S. Main 463-9152

Seniors!

Congratulations

 

 

 

   

 

enough to be absolutely harmless.
for exactly this reason. Steve Perry Besides, it is full of classic ‘“‘Journey-
sings each of these 11 tracks as ifhe isms’ such as, ‘‘Iwo young
were deep in the throes of painful hearts...running wild,” and, “Onte
heartache. The photo on the inner YOu love somebody...it’ll burn
sleeve shows “the guys” looking forever.
dead serious and dressed in blue Brace yourself: this one is going to
jeans and “normal clothes.” I can haunt us for the next couple of
already see the videos: Steve Perry months or so. There is an alternative,
sitting backstage with a far-off look however. Simply turn off the radig.
in his eyes, thinking about that Not only does Journey’s message go
“streetlight” girl he had to leave out the window, but so does Steve
behind in order to “rock all night.’’ Perry’s increasingly annoying voice.
Or something like that. Perhaps if we all close our eyes and

So the pose is all over this record, wish really hard, these jerks miglit
the music is utterly banal and flac- simply go away. But don’t hold you
cid, and it is going to sell by the _ breath.

ee

ONCAMPUS d

Thursday, May 22 ‘
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘“‘Tora, Tora, Tora.” Room 327, Com-
merce School.
8 p.m. — PIANO RECITAL: Yukie Kurihara, W&L exchange student *
from Rikkyo University, Japan. Lee Chapel. Reception to follow in du-
Pont Hall.

  

Party Pics Have Arrived
and all of the

best luck in the future.
Pick yours up

May your travels be

Wk

ee at Carol Calkins’ Office
unlimited.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

University Center

SLES CTT TT TTT TT TTT TTT LLL eee eee SSS

Statin atch th otth tat tina ctnstnstth thot that ath than thant inainath tht othatnanalnal

HAVEN'T YA HEARD!

Ol

FOR YOUR USED

“10 &

’

 

«

Friday, May 23
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING. :
8 p.m. — MEDICAL ETHICS LECTURE: ‘“‘Is There a Right to Health ¢

Care?” Tom L. Beauchamp, Georgetown University. Classroom E, ,
Lewis Hall.

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Viktor Frankenstein.” Written and directed by ¢
Joseph Martinez, W&L drama professor. Boiler Room Theatre

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy’
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

 

Saturday, May 24
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING. ,
8 p.m. — PLAY: “Viktor Frankenstein.” Boiler Room Theatre.

Sunday, May 25
2 p.m, — LAW SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT. Front Lawn. Speaker: 4
Sydney Lewis, W&L Trustee Emeritus. be
8 p.m, — PLAY: ‘Viktor Frankenstein.’’ Boiler Room Theatre.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch, Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,

Monday, May 26 *
Sandwiches, Beverages.

7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS SERIES:
‘‘Women of the Night.’’ Room 327, Commerce School
8p.m.— PLAY: ‘Viktor Frankenstein.’’ Boiler Room Theatre ”

* Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

e Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for

 

CLOTH OR PAPER

1985 Pizza Hut. Inc Tuesday, May 27

10 a.m. — HISTORY SEMINAR: “‘Politics inCentral America andthe ¢
Caribbean Between Wars.”’ Classroom D, Lewis Hall

4 p.m. — ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: “Biography: Ancient and »
Modern.” Christopher Pelling, University College, Oxford. Room 21,
Payne Hall. ’

 

late hee lhe ia
OC Te URC met eG Pll

600 E. Nelson Sf.

 

 

 

 

 

Lexington 8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Viktor Frankenstein.”’ Boiler Room Theatre x
only ‘3.49. Children under 6
years-99 “Hut. = SELL THEM ALL Wednesday, May 28 :
6:30 p.m. — SENIOR NIGHT. Lee Chapel. ’
$9 OFF time $a or La 7p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘Rollerball.’’ Room 327, Commerce ‘
yew ty School.
Offer

I

|

| $2. offany large pizza |
| or $i offany medium. In

| cludes Pizza Hut’ Pan Pizza
|
|
|
|

  

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Viktor Frankenstein.” Boiler Room Theatre
600 E. Nelsonst, EXPIres

Lexington, VA
463-7000 Ma y

Pizza' Hurry: offer ex-
pires soon One coupon
per party per visitat

Thursday, May 29
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “The Farewell to Seniors Fry {

THE W&L BOOKSTORE

Hut.

’ Howe 401.
articipating Pizza Hut --6.4n.
Festaurans th anoth 7 / May 28, 29 ghly 7p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘Rollerball.’’ Room 327. Commerce }
Pi t nm when ordering. Not valid in combination with another =— Se =
[otfer.20 cent cash redemption value. 1983 Pizza Hut, Inc. Good only through 1986 May 30 8:3 School. '

 

 

 

 
