ff

 

{Booked
| Cops fight

+

o

°

drunk driving

Page 4 &

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 23

  

 

Books

 

 

Library fights
book battering

 
 

Page 4

 

 

 

Your Charlottesville weather

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Friday: sunny and cold
Through Monday: warmer

      
   

  

MARCH 20, 1986

 

76 men, 8 women
from three classes
running on Monday

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

Eighty-four candidates clogged the
Executive Committee room Monday
night as they presented petitions to
run for student body office.

Elections for EC representatives,
class presidents and vice presidents
and University Council representa-
tives will be held Monday.

Voting Regulations Board co-
chairman John Scannapieco said he
was not surprised by the number.

“T estimated there would be about
30 people per class,”’ he said.

A 20-poster-per-candidate limit and

 

 

everybody else will spread them
around,” he said.

Scannapieco says there are eight
women running for office, all of them
freshmen.

Several said they thought they
would have no problems getting
votes from the men, although EC
candidate Alston Parker said some
people had said to her: ‘‘You can’t
run —you’re a girl.”’

Amy Balfour, a candidate for class
vice president, had a more typical
view.

“T really can’t see it making much
of a difference,”’ she said.

Runoffs for the election will be
held next Thursday.

a no-bed-sheet rule are in effect.
Scannapieco said he didn’t see a
problem developing with too many
posters around campus.
“Freshmen will pretty much keep
them in the freshman area, and

inside...

The 84 candidates are listed on
page 4.

 

 

 

 

 

A candidate in Monday’s elections puts up a poster

ot
eS

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

.

 

* By DAVID EMRICH
* Assistant Sports Editor

'

 

+ Does the annual contest against the University
of Virginia mean a lot to the Washington and Lee
* lacrosse team?
y Does water meana lot toa fish? Does beer mean
, alot toa mink? ;
The Generals have not beaten the Wahoos since
* 1977, meaning that no one on the W&L squad — a
, group that includes 10 seniors — has participated
in a win over our neighbors to the northeast.
’ Despite a 43-year history of the rivalry, the
, Generals’ victory column has yet to hit double
figures — U.Va. has dominated the series, 34-9.
* Saturday’s game begins at 2 p.m. at Scott
, Stadium in Charlottesville. Admission is $3, but a
live broadcast can be heard free on Lexington’s
* WVLI (96 FM). Station announcer Doug Chase

 

will provide play-by-play and W&L senior Ken
Jacoby offers color commentary.

The teams are on equal footing in the season
record department — both go into the game with a
2-1 tally — but W&L head coach Dennis Daly said
this week that ‘‘U.Va. will be tough.”’

The Wahoos split their last two contests, down-
ing the Roanoke Maroons 20-11 yesterday, but
getting upset by the University of Maryland-
Baltimore County Retrievers on Saturday, 7-6.
They opened their season with a 10-4 win over
Brown.

W&L opened the season with a 7-6 loss to Duke,
but followed that with two wins at home — a 28-1
rout of Virginia Tech and a 17-12 win over Dart-
mouth on Saturday. (See story on Dartmouth
game, page 6.)

Daly said Virginia has ‘‘more talent and depth
than anyone we’ve played this year.”’

“‘We expect this will be a very competitive game

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Troy Andrade enjoys a little Caribbean sunshine right here in Lexington

Pay-rays

' Minks now can flash ’em that Caper’s-tone tan

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

natural sunlight.”

However, she warned that as with anything, ‘“‘recom-

 

Caper’s, Inc

’ to travel south.

+ _ Caper’s, at 25 N. Main St., currently operates the only

tanning salon in Lexington.

Owner April Watts says she decided to include a tan-
ning bed in her hair salon because she thought it would

, be something W&L students would like.

Of the 10 to 20 people who use the tanning bed at
» Caper’s daily, Watts estimates that 65 percent are W&L
, Students. For $5 a visit, a person can get a good tan in 19

trips to Caper’s over a two-week period.

» Watts said the main concern of most people is safety,

offers Washington and Lee students
the chance to get that ‘‘awesome tan’’ without having

suitable for tanning.

dealt with individually,”’ she said

weeks last term.

worth it during the winter.

a ee ee

but she maintained that ‘‘tanning beds are safer than

mended use is OK, but abuse is bad for you.”’
Watts interviews every customer before he or she
begins the process to make sure that the customer is

“The purpose is to tan, not to burn, so each person ..:

Depending on the person, the first visit will last from 10
to 20 minutes to avoid burning, but later visits are in-
creased to 30 minutes after a sufficient tan is achieved

Sophomore Darrin Denny visited Caper’s for several

He said everything was handled very carefully and pro-
fessionally and that paying to get a tan was especially

Lax attack: W&L faces U.Va. Saturday

and we will be the underdogs,’’ he added.

Senior defenseman Bill Rush said W&L has
“tried to approach every game as if [it were] the
same as all others, but without a doubt this team
takes the U.Va. game more seriously than any of
the others on the schedule.”

Senior defenseman and co-captain Chris John
added that he’d like to beat the Wahoos before he
graduates.

‘“‘We’re very much looking forward to playing
them, because obviously we haven’t beat them in
[my] three years,” he said.

But as much as the game means to the
Generals, it doesn’t seem to hold the same signi-
fieance for U.Va.

Doyle Smith, in the U.Va. Sports Information
Department, said, ‘‘It’s not quite as big a game
because of the conference affiliations and what-

“) See Lacrosse, Page 6

By BERT PARKS
Staff Reporter

 

Lee Chapel was steamy Tuesday
night because of the standing-room-
only crowd gathered to hear former
Interior Secretary James G. Watt,
but it fairly sizzled during the 75-
minute question period following his
half-hour address.

Watt, the third speaker in the
Contact '86 lecture series, spoke on
“the role of government in
establishing moral values’’ but ad-
dressed issues ranging from conser-
vation to the media to abortion.

Responding to a question about
how prayer in school can be allowed
without infringing on the religious
beliefs of others, Watt, 48, replied
that he was “sick and tired’’ of
liberals denying constitutional
rights to children in school.

“Don’t deny me my rights,” Watt
said, adding that his children should
have the right to pray in school.

When asked about the controver-
sial policies he implemented as
secretary of the interior during the
first Reagan administration, espec-
ially the selling of so much. Ameri-
can public land to private in-
dustries, Watt said his “record is
beautiful.... With few exceptions,
federal acres are better off now
than when I became secretary.”’

Watt added that “if I believed
everything I read in the news-
papers, I’d hate Jim Watt —
it’s amazing how little regard for
the truth they have.”

Watt was grilled on abortion, as
well. He was once an unborn child,
he explained, and he is ready to de-
fend the rights of unborn children
today. Watt said, ‘I want to be on
the side of life,’ and that killing an
unborn child is wrong

Before the question and answer
period, Watt drew the line between
conservatives and liberals in a half-

Saxman wins
top IFC post

 

By SEAN BUGG
and JIM STRADER
Staff Reporters

 

Junior Chris Saxman on Monday
defeated classmate Mac McGrew by
nine votes for the office of Inter-
fraternity Council president.

Saxman, a member of Phi Kappa
Psi from Staunton, received 295
votes, while McGrew, a Phi Delta
Theta member from Atlanta, gar-
nered 286 votes.

Junior Tom Peters, a Phi Kappa
Sigma member from Wilson, N.C.,
won vice president with 382 votes,
defeating three challengers from his
class.

The other candidates were Michael
Beatty of Phi Kappa Psi, who receiv-
ed 118 votes; John Cummings of
Lambda Chi Alpha, who had 75
votes; and Robert White of Kappa
Sigma, who received 74 votes.

A total of 581 votes were cast for
president and 649 for vice president.
At the end of last term, 896 students
— approximately 64 percent of the
undergraduate student body — were

affiliated with the 17 fraternities,
showing turnouts of 65 percent for
president and 72 percent for vice
president.

Saxman said yesterday that his
plans for the IFC next year center
on making improvements in the
fraternity system. These improve-
ments include aspects such as the
number of fraternity members,
house finances and building struc-
ture. He said there is room for
change in every fraternity

Sorority development at Washing-
ton and Lee, which Saxman said he
thinks will come before too long,
should not cause problems for fra-
ternities.

‘‘People talk about sororities here
in the future,’ Saxman said. “I
want to see 17 fraternities with
them. I really don’t want to see any
fraternities go under.”

Nominations were opened at Tues-
day’s IFC meeting for the offices of
secretary, treasurer, senior and
junior justices, and rush and public
relations officials. The nominations
are open through tomorrow, Sax-
man said,

 

a

on Friday.

ceedings.

complaint from a local resident.

 

Honor trial discussed on WLUR

Two freshmen were dismissed from WLUR-FM this week after they
joked on the air about a student body honor hearing held in Lee Chapel

Associate Journalism Professor Robert J. deMaria said the students
discussed specific facts of the case, including the accused student’s
name, the names of witnesses and the fact that it was an all-male jury.

“We decided we could not condone that,’’ he said, adding that the
two violated several station policies during the Friday night incident.

DeMaria said he notified the Executive Committee and Dean of
Students Lewis G. John of the students’ actions, which appeared to
violate the confidentiality requirement surrounding all honor pro-

The matter came to deMaria’s attention because a student made a
tape of the show, which included the dedication of the Thompson
Twins’ song “‘Lies”’ to the defendant. DeMaria said he also received a

A freshman was acquitted of a charge of cheating at Friday’s open
honor trial. The jury deliberated for slightly more than two hours after
approximately six hours of testimony.

 

 

Packed chapel sizzles with Watt’s
views of prayer, abortion and more

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Former Interior Secretary James Watt speaks with a student

hour lecture about the changing
values in America.

“There is a battle being wayed in
the churches, in the schools, and in
the halls of government ... not be
tween Democrats and Republicans
but between liberals and conser
vatives. And it is a battle about the
moral standards of America,”’ Watt

said
“Many people say they're mode
rates,’ Watt said, “but you are

either for us or against us,’’ He said
to be a moderate is to drift down the
middle of the political spectrum
Watt contended that the established
institutions in America today are
liberal

America must elect men and
women with morals, Watt con-
tinued, making the first of several
calls to Washington and Lee stu-
dents and young people across the
nation to ‘have the courage to stand
up and say what’s wrong.”’
 

 

OPINION
ur view

Among the swarm of next week’s candidates who are seek-
ing to serve the student body and/or enhance their resumes
are a few who actually have some experience. Five members
of the Executive Committee are running for re-election to
that body, and one candidate served on the EC last year. Bas-
ed on our observations at the committee’s weekly meetings,
here is a fast look at the aptitudes and ineptitudes of those
half-dozen candidates:

 

Vice President Andrew Caruthers is unafraid to make dif-
ficult choices. Earlier this year, he chose to de-activate from
one of the campus’s most prestigious fraternities, likely
harming his electoral base. Now he’s chosen to run for senior
class EC representative after being mangled in last week’s
presidential election. At first, this struck us as being
somewhat akin to running for dogeatcher after you’ve been
mayor, but the move would be beneficial both for the com-
mittee and Caruthers. His extensive knowledge of student
government surely would benefit next year’s EC, and Caru-
thers would be a major asset as long as he is willing to yield
the stage to others. With enough effort from the ‘‘Big Three”’
and from Caruthers, they all could have a productive year.

Freshman representative Matt Bryant is one of those rare
individuals who inspires genuine admiration among his
peers. If he manages to resist cockiness and complacency,
the downfalls of many with his potential, he will be one of the
committee’s future stars. Although in Bryant’s initial weeks
in office he had the annoying habit of giving opinions on mat-
ters about which he knew little or nothing, he has tempered
that and now commits fewer gaffes than perhaps anyone on
the committee. In fact, his caution sometimes appears to be
boredom, and the committee would be well served by having
more input from him at its open meetings. Bryant has won
the respect of his EC colleagues and is treated simply as a
member of the committee rather than as the freshman side-
kick. Bryant promises to continue to be a leader at W&L and
beyond.

The word that comes to mind for sophomore representative
Brad Root is solid. He doesn’t go for the spotlight or talk very
much, but he’s consistent in his views and plays an essential
role as one of the committee’s behind-the-scenes men, espec-
ially in honor matters. Root demonstrated his flexibility ear-
ly in the year by being the point-man on the credit-card-in-
the-bookstore issue. At first he was skeptical of the need for
presenting cards instead of just repeating your number, but
then went and talked with the bookstore manager and chang-
ed his mind when he heard the reasons, which he then con-
veyed to the committee. Root is a second-generation Wash-
ington and Lee student and takes his duty to tradition serious-
ly.

Sophomore representative Pat Schaefer is one of the com-
mittee’s most complicated members. He often rubs people
who don’t know him the wrong way, and friends who under-
stand his strengths can’t understand why. Schaefer walks the
fine line between dedication and overzealousness, usually
falling on the side of the former, but occasionally lapsing into
excess. One of Schaefer’s major weaknesses is spouting off
before he thinks during open meetings. For example, when
what turned out to be a possible honor violation involving the
Ariel came up one week, Schaefer’s instant, irrelevant
response was: ‘Freeze their funds!” Another week, when
the committee was debating newspaper coverage of an honor
hearing, some EC members kept making vague references to
a directive that had been issued to The W&L Law News and
no one else. A representative of this newspaper asked what
“rule” they were talking about. “Ignorance is no excuse,”
Schaefer spluttered, demonstrating that he himself was ig-
norant of the issue at hand and wasn’t even following the
discussion, but nevertheless wanted to get his two cents’
worth in. It would be tragically shortsighted, though, to
penalize a candidate for being candid and forthright — two
qualities in short supply in political bodies of all sorts.
Schaefer’s honesty allows you to know exactly where he
stands, which is refreshing in an elected representative. He
also has a healthy capacity for outrage that is rare in today’s

“go along, get along”’ world. Like Root, he is very commit-
ted to the traditions of W&L, his father’s alma mater.

When junior representative Baltzer LeJeune launches into
one of his rambling, unfathomable monologues (and, sure as
Sominex, you can count on one at just about every meeting),
members of both the committee and the audience roll their
eyes and tune out. While we would welcome a thoughtful and
articulate liberal voice on the committee, LeJeune’s insipid
digressions serve only to make a mockery of alternative
points of view. He is the committee’s least effective member.

Sophomore Brandt Wood was the freshman representative
last year who was defeated for re-election. He was a stable if
uninspired presence in his rookie year and handled the duties
of ‘‘EC pledge” competently and with a sense of humor.

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
Mec ihk edhe Mike Allen
a ic iueiiinc Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
I 6b vised eebssvertiscsiees te es Reade Williams
I i 5 ca ih ibesee hindi i eee Mike Stachura
PTT hbk hibie eerie aici ee ee Jason Lisi
ho ae me csp RR Steve Sadler
BT BI 64. bs Fe we vedneccccectsadesccescertssieseiis ease Matt Horridge
ood tet bh  U  ee e Marshall Boswell
POC IT TE ioe a bs vse cecisisesssi siete eisssesien David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
RIPE i ieciscccee se Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor.................cccceeeeeeeeeee eee. Marie Kothman
CRTOROIINE oc cs iciecdverccccvccetecccvcsavscesesseusesceveceesess Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ..... ligiisviti fei ae ee eee Jeff Kimbell
MM VOTTaING MORAG oo os oc cesses cccccccsecccccccessecsecnsssss Hank Greenberg
I a is ik Aa Caroline Boone, John Feyrer,
Keri Hinrichs, Jay Reville, Greg Turley,
Cipewtnthon MamO Oh oo ic.ccccciccccccccccdessccccssacessscesasscects Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

      

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

ay

aoah

Ye
Mee

cyt ay .

oe

i. Ligh

fl

er

  

on

      
   

me

During the election of '86,

everyone was a Candidate.

No one voted.

 

 

Strike those Honor System obituaries

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

“The whole thing was a farce.
There were people wearing hats in
the --damned chapel.”

That complaint at a Friday night
party, singling out just one troubl-
ing aspect of the day’s student body
honor hearing, captured the disgust
many held for the proceeding.

But was Friday’s verdict really
the death knell of the Honor
System?

see

Two friends who no longer see each
other very often had dinner on Friday
night. After spending the day in Lee
Chapel, they didn’t much feel like
toasting the Honor System, so over dai-
quiris and Blue Hawaiians, talk turned to
Sreshman year, when they were worthless
and irresponsible — and loving every
minute of it.

One of them brought up one of those
incidents you repress and eventually
forget about, but recall vividly as soon as

it’s.mentioned, ‘‘Remember when...,”’ he
began. Yes, his friend remembered.

He remembered the night in his
Sreshman fall when he was calling down
the road to get a date for homecoming.
The first person he dialed was going to
be out of town, but the second woman
he asked didn’t have much of an excuse.
He felt blown off. He had been blown
off.

A third call clinched the weekend; the
two went to homecoming, had a great
time and our hapless freshman didn't
think anything more about strikes one
and two.

Didn’t think about them, that is, until
word filtered back to his pledge class that
the first two women lived next door to
each other. Not knowing the second
woman’s number, he naively had allowed
the switchboard operator to connect him;
the unncessary, humiliating faux pas had
res'lted. No wonder that second excuse
was a little vague and unconvincing.

The ‘‘there but for the grace of God”
brand of consolation from upperclassmen
in the fraternity was little comfort amid
the glee the incident seemed to engender
in our hammerhead’s. classmates. Was

this gape the end of social life as we
know it? Had he reached his Waterloo
with women’s schools? It sure seemed
that way.

That wasn’t the case, of course. There
have been many dates — and rejections
— since then. Life, the foolish freshman
learned, is longer than one stupid phone
call.

ee

Is the Honor System dead? Some
people who count certainly think so.
This week, I had the unsettling ex-
perience of watching someone I
respect scream and throw things in
anger and frustration at what he
sees as the demise of the system so
many love and have worked to pre-
serve.

Robert E. Lee’s legacy, though, is
bigger than any of us, and it cer-
tainly can outlast one or two
wrongheaded verdicts. It would be
arrogant to presume that we can
destroy overnight what has been
built up over more than a century.

The student body and Executive
Committee now must examine

whether everything possible is being
done to ensure the system’s sur-
vival. Should the jury be weighted
toward upperclassmen? Should
potential jurors be asked not merely
whether they support the system,
but more specifically whether they
are willing to vote to expel a person
they deem guilty? Are witnesses
being adequately protected, so they
can report potential violations
without fear of ostracism? Should
there be tighter restrictions on tac-
tics available to advocates?

We need to answer those ques-
tions. When bull session comments
take the form of, ‘She did it, but
they didn’t prove it’ and “‘It’s not
worth ruining someone’s life for,”’
something is desperately —
although not fatally — amiss.

Some saw 1954’s end of athletic
scholarships as the bane of Wash-
ington and Lee. Three decades
later, others portrayed coeducation
as the ruination of the institutiun.
Both were proven wrong.

Today’s doomsayers will be as
well,

Liberal knaves crush hope of freedom

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

Should the United States support
the ‘‘Contra”’ effort to destabilize or
keep at bay the Sandinista regime
in Nicaragua?

The question is indeed whether
you are liberal or whether you are
American.

Call it McCarthyism, if that is
how you might attempt to discredit
it. Call it preaching, imperialism
— call me a radical interventionist.
The nicknames and charges that
may be thrown around are nothing
more than clever rhetorical
methods of obfuscating the real
issue.

Washington and Lee students
ought to be concerned with the vote
scheduled for today on the military
aid issue because it will affect us —
both as taxpayers and as possible
members of any armed forces that
might have to “stem the red tide’’
as it approaches ‘Harlingen, Tex-
as” or any point on our southern
border. We ought to state our opi-
nion because we will be the ones to
pay for whatever outcome evolves.

There are really two scenarios
available: either we assist the
rebels now, providing them with the
necessary weapons and humanitar-

Reader’s faith in Honor System restored

To the editors:

Recent letters to The Phi have expressed

ian aid necessary to fight the
modern Soviet military equipment
supplied the Sandinistas or we allow
the contras to fall, victims of
neglect and lack of sophistication.

I support giving military and
humanitarian aid to the contras for
several reasons. First, I don’t
believe I want to support a position
that is espoused by sniveling pro-
fessors spewing forth leftist dogma.
Somehow the thought is repulsive.
In the sixties, students were told to
suspect their elders and question
their judgments. When we entered
college, we were told to gather in-
formation and evaluate it, never ac-
cepting any opinion as untouchable.
Today, when a law professor tells
the press that visiting Nicaragua —
home to suppression of the press,
persecution of the church and
suspension of all political rights —
is a spiritual experience, I im-
mediately suspect the man and the
position. Apparently, the professor’s
position is indicative of that taken
by naive and pathetic dolts who
never heard of Neville Chamber-
lain.

Besides suspicion of the position
taken by the Chris Dodds and
Michael Barnes of this world, I have
to question those individuals who
believe that an ounce of prevention
is not worth a pound of cure. The

argument is well-defined but full of
logical loopholes: the contras have
made no progress in destabilizing
the Sandinista rule, have wreaked
havoc on the economy, have massa-
cred their fellow citizens and have
no broadbased popular support.

They have made no progress
because we have refused to aid
them militarily for the past two
years. They have diverted scarce
but valuable resources in the
economy of the Sandinistas, thus
weakening an already fragile
market system. Is it any different
from the beloved (and moral!??!)
liberal position that disinvestment
of stocks from South Africa will
destroy the economy there?
Charges of the massacre of innocent
villagers have been documented,
that is to be deplored. But we can-
not be selective in our disgust, turn-
ing a casual eye from Sandinista
atrocities either. Ever hear of the
latest ploy to pretend to be contras
and kill their fellow revolutionaries,
just to turn opinion against the
freedom fighres? Finally, to deny
the contras any level of popularity
is to ignore the fact that over ninety
percent of the fighters there today
are young Nicaraguans, men and
women who entered their teenage
years under Sandinista rule. Funny
how they view the Sandinistas as

LETTERS

System and the privilege of open exams more
than any event since I have been at W&L.

disbelief that the Honor System still works.
This year’s open trials have also questioned the
Honor System, as has the graffiti on the

elevator doors in the library.

I too have felt at times that the Honor

System is not as good as it could be, but last

week’s trial helped to restore my faith in the
Honor System and in future classes of the

University.

Obviously, the freshman class understands
what honor is. Last week an individual stood up
for what she knew was right under the honor
code; her feelings for the Honor System were
so strong that even peer pressure didn’t deter

her from what she believed.

Perhaps what she saw was not what was
really happening, but the fact that she ques-

tioned the incident is commendable.

The Honor System does work and will con-
tinue to work as long as we have students like
this, who are not afraid to support the Honor
System. This incident strengthened the Honor

 

 

To the editors:

I would like to express my discontent with last
week’s article on Fancy Dress 1986. Many
aspects of this article were placed out of context
and don’t truly reflect the actual happenings of
the night. The security problems you spoke of
were early in the evening and were corrected
promptly by Fancy Dress Director Rob Tolleson.
Security for Fancy Dress as well as all our con-
certs has been exceptional under the control of
Kevin Weaver. Tolleson’s quote concerning the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and the Stu-
dent Activities Board getting ‘‘slammed’’ was
only a problem early on in the evening and was
again corrected promptly. Fancy Dress this year
turned out to be a major success. We have

Townes G. Pressler
Class of 1986

Guerriero defends FD ’86

received numerous comments and letters prais-
ing this year’s ball. I hope everyone who attend-
ed enjoyed themselves, and I expect that next
year’s ball will be an even greater success.

Student grateful for support

To the editors:

I am writing this letter on behalf of Betsy
Parkins and myself. We would like to take this
opportunity to thank the EC, friends and people
who have supported us during this ordeal.

This has been an exceedingly difficult time
for not only us, but the entire school. We ap-
preciate your patience and understanding. |
now realize how lucky I am to attend this
university that has so many people who really
care. Although words are insufficient, your
kindness will never be forgotten.

far worse than Anastasio Somoza.

I do not urge that we ignore the
Contadora peace process that hopes
to attain an end to hostilities in the
region through diplomatic means.
While such means are always to be
preferred, they are not always the
most effective means in the short
run. We need to listen to the opi-
nions of those countries; publicly,
they espouse the diplomatic pro-
cess. But is that all that there is?
Would any rational person really ex-
pect Costa Rica — an unarmed de-
mocratic neighbor of Nicaragua’s
— to say publicly that they fear the
military buildup next door when the
best they could use to defend them-
selves would be sticks and mache-
tes?

Nicaragua under the Sandinistas
poses a threat to every country in
Latin America. Twenty years after
we raised hell over a nominal Soviet
presence in Cuba and the position-
ing of missiles there, why are we so
complacent toward Nicaragua? Its
ambitions are plain, its repressions
are documented, and its attempt at
disinformation seems to be pulling
the wool over many congressional
eyes. I fear for our country if the
sniveling knaves and henchmen of
Daniel Ortega succeed in convincing
the United States to walk away with
its tail between its legs.

Mike Guerriero
Executive Director
Student Activities Board

Breton Chase
Class of 1989

 

 

ow

 
 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Members of the East Lexington Lacrosse Club at practice last week

Lax club has players to field,
but lacks a field for playing

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

The East Lexington Lacrosse Club
has a home game Saturday against
the Mary Washington College
Lacrosse Club. Only it doesn’t ex-
actly have a home field to play on.

Organized this year, the club has
had a problem with finding playing
and practice fields, according to
club president Mike Stone, an assis-
tant lacrosse coach at Virginia
Military Institute.

Stone explained that the club,
named for its sponsor, the East Lex-
ington grocery store, had originally
obtained permission to use the up-
per practice fields at Washington
and Lee. He said the university
later withdrew its offer because the
club lacked insurance.

The club played its first game, a

_ 10-5 loss to VMI, at Lylburn Down-

ing Middle School in Lexington. By
Tuesday, it still had not determined

, asite for Saturday’s game.

“The lack of practice facilities is

hindering our development and
could hamper our enthusiasm,”
Stone said. He added that if a
suitable field is found, the club
possibly could gain admittance to
the Central Atlantic Lacrosse
League, a league composed of
teams in Richmond, Washington,
D.C. and Charlottesville.

Because most of its members are
W&L undergraduate and law
students, the club will apply to the
University athletic committee for
club status, Stone said. Once
recognized by the university as a
club, it would then have permission
to use the school’s facilities. The ap-
plication is expected to be presented
next month, according to junior Jeff
Mandak, who will represent the club
in front of the committee.

Besides the lack of fields, the club
has had minor difficulty in schedul-
ing games and getting individual
equipment, Stone said.

It shas -already played Virginia
Tech and the Roanoke College
junior varsity team, losing both
games, along with the loss to VMI.

Remaining on the schedule are
Mary Washington, Liberty Universi-
ty and another game with Roanoke.

Stone said, “It was difficult
scheduling because of our late start
and W&L’s academic schedule
doesn’t mesh with other schools.”’

He said he had little time to ar-
range a schedule becausethe club
was not organized until February
and most other schools end the year
in late April. :

Many of the club’s 37 members
had to borrow or buy their own
equipment, according to Stone. He
said the club’s $35 dues were used
directly to buy balls and a game
clock and to pay for transportation
and officials.

“It was a tough transition for a lot
of them, having had their equip-
ment furnished in high school,’

Despite the fledgling organiza-
tion’s problems, Stone said he was
pleased with the enthusiasm and
talent of the players.

“They still wanted to compete but
found no outlet for themselves,’’ he
said.

Goshen: ‘You take the high road’

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Everyone can quit holding his
breath.

Contrary to popular belief, there
can still be a spring term here at
Washington and Lee because there
still exists a way to get to Goshen.

Now, this route may not necessar-

* ily be the shortest distance between

~

two points, but it is better than

nothing. Ocassionally, one has to go

past his elbow to get to his thumb.
Get out a note pad and take this

 

Take Interstate 64 west and con-
tinue over North Mountain. You will
see a ‘‘Goshen”’ exit. Take it.

Follow this down to the bottom of
a ramp, and take the ramp at the
right and continue for about 200
yards.

Route 60 should appear on the
left. If it doesn’t then take it. Drive
for one mile until you see a turn-off
to the right. There will be a sign
reading ‘‘Goshen.” Now, go for
about 10 more miles.

This road will T-intersect with Old

Route 39. Burke Parson’s Wood Yard
should be visible by now. (You can’t

miss it. There will be a 20 foot high
stack of railroad ties in the front.)

Voila! The town of Goshen!

The whole journey takes between
30 and 40 minutes. Now whether
there will be much pretty water to
play in or parks to picnic in is
another story.

Normally, W&L students would
take State Route 39 to Goshen but
last fall’s devastating flood render-
ed the road impassable. Virginia
State Highway Department assis-
tant resident engineer John Hull
said the road probably will be clos-
ed until July.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

System may
be automated

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee may have a
new registration system by winter
term of the ’86-’87 year, if Universi-
ty Registrar D. Scott Dittman’s
ideas are approved by the faculty
and administration.

The new system would allow stu-
dents to go to their advisers, pick
their courses, then go to a computer
terminal and enter their schedule.
The student would know his
schedule immediately, or if pro-
blems existed with the schedule.

Dittman said plans are not yet
complete. One thing that might
cause problem is computer access.

“It would have to go through my
office,’ Dittman said. Students
could not just use any computer on
campus; scheduling is done on a
computer that student terminals do
not have access to.

Dittman stressed that these ideas
are just ‘“‘a possibility.” It must
first be approved by the faculty

Awareness
has reduced
DUI arrests

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Drunk driving charges in Lex-
ington dropped 30 percent last year
from 1984’s totals, according to
Police Chief L.O. Sutton.

In 1985, 160 citations for driving
under the influence of alcohol were
issued in Lexington, compared with
229 in 1984. Through the end of last
month, 26 DUI arrests were made in
the city.

Sutton said public awareness of
the dangers of driving drunk, com-
bined with the knowledge that Lex-
ington officials do not hesitate in
prosecuting those accused of driving
under the influence, account for the
decrease in the number of citations.

Sutton said Lexington Police Sgt.
Steve Crowder gives lectures
throughout the community on the
dangers of mixing drinking and
driving and these discussions have
increased ‘“‘community awareness”
of the problems of drunken driving.

And students have been getting
the message. Sophomore Charlie
Benedict agreed that his knowledge
of the damage done by drunk dri-
vers has made him more careful.

“The biggest decrease [in DUI ar-
rests] is because of the media,”
Benedict said.

Crowder has visited the Sigma Nu
house three times to discuss the use
and abuse of alcohol.

Three weeks ago, Sigma Nu spon-
sored a colloquium titled’’The Ef-
fects of Alcohol on Society.’’ Sopho-
more Baxter Sharp, coordinator of
the event, said the session was well
attended and the brothers found the

 

NEWS BRIEFS |

Committee on Registration and
Class Schedules. After that it must
be approved by various other com-
mittees.

The new system is not designed to
phase out the faculty adviser
system. “Advising will probably
become more important,” Dittman
said.

The computer used by Dittman’s
office has had the capability to do
registration the way Dittman plans
since it has been in operation at
W&L, and the Law School has
already switched to this system.

Last term Dittman made a
change in the registration process
by replacing the small brown com-
puter cards with full sheets of paper
containing all the information need-
ed for registration.

“It was so cramped,” Dittman
said of the computer cards.

One of the major reasons for the
change is to get ‘‘more information
on them regarding the student, ma-
jor and adviser,” Dittman said.

Dittman wanted to use this infor-
mation to update computer records,

 

 

D. SCOTT DITTMAN

which he said were wrong in many
cases. A large number of students
were listed with the wrong adviser,
and as of Tuesday, about 80
students had no adviser listed on the
computer.

Dittman hopes the new form will
keep the computer files from get-
ting that messed up again.

In other business, Director of
Publications Jeff Hanna said the
1986-87 catalog is ‘‘at the printers.”

“T hope that we will have them
back here shortly ,’’ Hanna said.

Contrary to campus rumors, stu-
dents will not be charged for the
new catalogs, according to Dittman.

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Sgt, Steve Crowder and Mark Fishman ata talk on DUIs

discussions very informative.

Sharp added that the upcoming
Fancy Dress weekend played a
large part in the decision to hold the
colloquium in late February.

Lexington’s reputation for being
tough on DUI offenders has also
helped curb the number of drunk
drivers, Sutton said.

Sutton added, ‘We consistently
enforce DUI.”

Lexington Police Lt. Bruce M.
Beard said DUI arrests are decreas-
ing because “people are beginning
to be more educated on the reper-
cussions of driving drunk.”’

“The word is out,” Sutton said.
“Don’t get drunk and drive in Lex-
ington.”’

Sutton said the police department
has also stressed using a “‘designa-
ted driver’’ system for those who
have to drive to parties.

Sutton said many of his officers
have encountered situations in
which “‘there may be four or five in

Committee fills two of three C-School positions for fall

the car wliw are bombed [but] the
driver is in good shape.”’

“Students are really being more
cautious,” Beard added.

Sophomore Suzanne Guarch, an
exchange student from Hollins Col-
lege, said she and her friends use
the ‘designated driver’ system
often.

“Usually the person driving took
the responsibility,’ she said. She
said she had to “sacrifice a few
drinks here and there’’ but quickly
added that not drinking was
tolerable.

Candy Lightner, founder of
Mothers Against Drunk Driving,
argued last week that the decrease
in DUI arrests is actually an indica-
tion that there are more drunken
drivers on the road who are not be-
ing caught by police.

Sutton disagrees, though.’’There
are not nearly as many [drunken
drivers] out there as there used to
be,’”’ he maintained. ‘‘And I think
that’s good.”’

 

Staff Reports

 

The Commerce School will have three new pro-
fessors next year, according to economics Professor
Bruce H. Herrick.

Herrick said a selection committee reviewed over
100 applications for the positions.

“We're very glad with the appointments we’ve
made, and the people we’ve chosen were at the very
top of the list’”’ of applicants, Herrick added.

Herrick said Michael Smitka, who is being hired
full-time, was chosen because of his specialty — East
Asian economics. A doctoral candidate at Yale Uni-
versity, Smitka has done extensive work studying
Japanese industrial organization, Herrick said.

The East Asian economic courses he will teach will
be connected with the current East Asian studies pro-
gram, Herrick added.

This will be Smitka’s first teaching experience, Her-
rick said, but in a way, his not having taught is an ad-
vantage. Top graduate students like Smitka are ‘thot
candidates ,” Herrick said because they do not have
to take teaching assistant jobs; their study is financed
often by grants and fellowships.

Carole Biewener has been hired only for next year
to stand in for Commerce School Dean Edward C. AT-
wood, who will be on sabbatical at Oxford, Herrick

said.

Biewener, who is working on her doctorate at the
University of Massachusetts at Amherst, will teach
Money and Banking, and Intermediate Macroecono-
mic Theory,-Herrick said. She has taught those two
courses as a teaching assistant at Massachusetts for
four years, Herrick said.

The search is continuing for a political science pro-
fessor to fill the vacancy left by William Buchanan,

who will only be teaching half-time next year, Herrick
said, Herrick predicted that a candidate would be cho-
sen within three to four weeks.

—Simon Perez

Sophomore’s car strikes Wahoo

Sophomore Daniel Boudreau was charged with
reckless driving and driving under the influence of
alcohol early Sunday morning when the car he was
driving struck a University of Virginia student who
was later charged with being drunk in public.

The police report said Boudreau, a 19-year-old from
Fredericksburg, was driving west on West Washing-
ton Street at approximately 25 m.p.h. while also try-
ing to clear moisture from his windshield. The stu-
dent, David L. Walker, 19, of Millerville, Md., was
walking facing traffic when he was struck.

According to the report, Walker was taken to Stone-
wall Jackson Memorial Hospital, where he received
several stitches for lacerations on his head and chin.
He was admitted to the hospital for observation.

Boudreau’s Volkswagen suffered $50 in damages.

—Matt Horridge

Fair turnout a disappointment

The Summer Opportunities Fair Tuesday attracted
about 20 students, according to Associate Dean of
Students Anne C.P. Schroer. “While it was a disap-
pointment on one hand that more students didn’t at-
tend,” she said it was ‘‘a fair start’’ and ‘“‘we know
much better about where to go for the next program.”

Schroer said at least 20 seniors and five faculty
members participated on the six panels during the se-
cond half of the workshop.

Also, Schroer outlined some changes for next year.
Resume and job-hunting skills workshops for under-
classmen will be offered in November and December.
Schroer said she plans to do the summer jobs work-
shop one evening in January or February

She commented that she liked having the first sum-
mer jobs workshop held the Wednesday before Wash-
ington Holiday because ‘‘some students really did
take advantage of job-hunting that week.”

Schroer also described the workshop Tuesday as the
“first step toward a change of philosophy in the Office
of Carrrer Development and Placement. She said the
office has “developed a very good program for
seniors,’ but would like to see it expanded to ‘‘a good
program for all four levels.”’

Other workshops for freshmen and sophomores will
be added next fall as a means ‘“‘to communicate that
career development has to start early,’”’ she said.
Topics for these seminars may include ‘choosing ma-
jors, defining career values and matching personality
patterns and interest with abilities”

—Deborah Hattes

Professor publishes book

Charles W. Turner, professor emeritus of history at
Washington and Lee, has published a collection of
essays describing the agricultural reform movement in
Virginia in the 19th century.

Titled, ‘‘Virginia’s Green Revolution,’ Turner’s book
details Virginia’s effort to improve agriculture in the
19th century through cooperation between leading
farmers and political leaders. The agricultural
societies and clubs formed by these groups later
became organizations that backed the establishment of
departments and schools for agriculture, and the
building of railroads and better overland roads.

Turner paid close attention to such leaders as
General William H. Richardson, Philip St. George
Cocke, John Lyle Campbell and others. One chapter is
devoted specifically to the agricultural reform in
Rockbridge County. The Rockbridge fair was the first
such event held in the South after the Civil War.

Turner retired from the Washington and Lee faculty
in 1982. He is a 1937 graduate of the University of Rich-
mond. He received his master’s degree from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina and a doctorate from the Uni-
versity of Minnesota.

Turner has served as historian, librarian and
genealogist ‘or the Rockbridge Historical Society and
has edited and published versions of the letters of a
large number of Civil War-era Rockbridge County
residents.

“Virginia’s Green Revolution” is published by The
Humphries Press Inc. of Waynesboro.

Final Contact lecture Tuesday

M. Pinson Neal Jr., past president of the Southern
Medical Association, will deliver the final lecture in the
Contact ’86 series at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in Lee Chapel.
The lecture is free and open to the public.

The lecture series is titled ‘‘Changing Values in
America.”’ It is sponsored by the Interfraternity Coun-
cil and the Executive Committee.

Neal received his bachelor’s degree in medicine
from the University of Missouri, and his medical
degree from the University of Tennessee.

Neal is currently director of housestaff education for
the department of radiology at the Medical College of
Virginia. He has served as provost of the health
sciences campus and director of continuing education
at MCV in Richmond.

 

 
_— OO Re rR me

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
      

 

 

 

 

We ; 4 See 2 a qd t = =
cm m Ka
EC may keep SBA oe Capitalism an eee) | |
te oe ig : rl
= Wa&L’ ics Institute :
leaders from being L’s Ethics Institute -
* : t
defense advocates might be one of a kind:
€
. professor at Loyola University of :
By PAUL FOUTCH Chicago, to campus for seminars * ,
By DANIEL BUNCH sgn epoca Editor and a public speech Friday nighton » | «
Staff Report ee ‘Individual Responsibilities in
Staff Reporter ’ i ’ ; Bai ¢
camel ae aoe eee ee Washington and Lee’s Business Business: Moral Dilemmas of Busi-

A possible White Book revision that other law representatives will return Ethics er een ane eo ee eee oo ‘ ‘
would keep Student Bar Association from their break. seminars and speecnes — : : ; 5 8 ‘
presidents and vice presidents from In other business, Contact Chair- through Sunday, may be unique, ac- ness: A Philosophical Apprese},”
acting as defense advocates inhonor man Lee Hollis said Contact may try cording to one of last year's par- a o anaauan ia ¢ £
ame was eee a — He coe. a Se and ——" 4 + is cubninstion of aor inte o-taught by ‘
Yommittee meeting Monday night. a rtson to campus next year. ; ax

Third-year law representative Joel In new business, the EC considered the interdepartmental course in ap- — eee — 2 Oe
Johnston, who made the motion, — the idea of holding special events to plied business ethics, part of W&L's saan v sha F. Severs: Tae ther * ‘
said he was concerned about preser- _ celebrate the bicentennial of the con- Society and the Professions” pro- ge “Societ a ye By onl
ue an eee of impartiality pc gs ol his committee os = = oe ee pace mi 7 aor eat :
at trials. student opinion on iss gues , an am, ¢ ‘
: The SBA president is the chairman _ before taking Be action. several faculty members will directed by Religion oe ; ;
at public honor trials and resolves —_ Senior Peter Bennorth, who is on a discuss issues ranging from 4 Louis W. eee : ca oe
conflicts between defense advocates special committee to study W&L ac- Powel ogg to involvement wit oe in law, jour- , ‘

£C advocates. iviti i ial, said an ! rica. . ;
~ oe a : prone at eee aa es By W. Patrick Hinely/Wal © Harvard University Business Pro- These three courses also have in- ‘ :

a ae acon mas this s ray and next fall He said they fessor Kenneth Goodpaster, a guest stitutes. At the end of the year, , ,
tei r eo sagen yaaa are cumlaiias having a constitu- Cranes and ravens at last year’s Institute, praised the | Hodges compiles lectures from each .
re ee : : rogram for bringing students of the four institutes into “Social ©“ | *
Th ;. who was a defense advocate tional convention that would be prog ging

ae, Se wee al of something like the Mock Convention together with real businessmen for Responsibility: Business, Jour- « | ,
earlier in the year, was chairman = : Te ae Biology Professor Peter W. Bergstrom and junior Mark Farley are in-depth studies of business ethics. nalism, Law, Medicine,”’ an ethics
the trial. Student support is crucial,” Ben-  jowered into a quarry to find a raven’s nest they are using in an experi- “Some schools have a lot going on journal that, like the “‘Scciety and “ :

“Tf you let this person or that per- north said. : = ment. Bergstrom, Farley and junior Edward Newton are planning to in- with business ethics but not neces- the Professions’ program itself, is , ‘
son do both things in the same year, In financial action, the funds for stall a radio transmitter-thermometer into a hollowed chicken egg so the — sarily on an annual basis,” Good- _ inits 12thyear.
people may start to wonder,” the literary magazine Ariel remain researchers can record raven incubation temperatures. Last year the paster said. Religion department secretary “ :
Johnston said. frozen, which means the editors can't three used the crane, owned by Charles Barger & Son construction com- “Business ethics is undoubtedly a Nancy Hanna says the journals are « ‘

He added that it would be a dif- withdraw their money from the Busi- pany of Lexington, to put bands on young ravens and follow them after growing field,” he added. sent to about 8,000 alumni, but she
ferent matter for a person to be a _ ness Office until they make a budget they left the nest. The research team discovered the nest in the abandoned The Institute this year will bring added that it’s hard to tell what ‘ :
defense advocate one year and SBA ___ report tothe EC. quarry last year. Patricia H. Werhane, a philosophy __ their impactis. e '

« a ‘ ‘
Historian |
4 .
a ' ’
discusses t
€ *
a
Hitler |
e ‘
Ae ?
By JIM STRADER :
Editor ‘ ’
_o
oyna pute, The names Phi Beta Kappa and
"ph whos ante en Adolf Hitler are not often linked. 7?
But at his Phi Beta Kappa convoca- ‘ >
tion speech last Thursday in Lee ; ;
ee Chapel, Yale University History
By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi. Professor Henry Ashby Turner wi ‘ °
: as ic ‘ ‘ ‘ : ted that world histo’ oul
A damaged book in the exhibit in the main lobby of the University Library rec rs snialiy sihanad tt Hitler a
Li b di | hi bit é b tt d b k 5 had had a better education. c x
Turner, a 1954 graduate of Wash- : _
i rary isp ay ex i i Ss a ere oO Ss ington and Lee, also wove a tale of
the way recent world history would ’ =
impression that students sometimes university and go to work as far have developed had Hitler absent- ™ ‘ ‘
By DEBORAH HATTES feel the librarians are nagging, but from all information as possible, | mindedly stepped off a curb into the ——— ee
Staff Reporter she said that “over time, food and you should consider professional path of a beer wagon in Munich in Henry Turner speaks in Lee Chapel last Thursday
drink do disastrous things’’ to treatment.” 1930. ' , ‘

To determine students’ attitudes books. Another “real problem” cited by lf this had happened, Turner theo- of uncontrolled minds can be devas- Turner disagrees and counters that , t
toward books, the University The exhibit includes an 11- Warren is “snuff and spit,” which ed, Hitler’s Nazi party, which — tating, Turner said. the factual errors make Abraham’s
Library has set up an exhibit titled question quiz reprinted from the has been found in cups in the Was ae to eine aes This problem affected Germany ™aterial “sterile” and “‘worthless.”.  * | "
Enemies of Books: Are You a University of British Columbia  jiprary. She said the liquid “attacks POWer at me, w id ve t0 : in the 1930s, Turner said later in a “Dates were altered,” Turner « | °*
me deol in the main lobby yg ee bags = — books in terms of acidity.” = Byes mage — Wer = discussion with W&L history stu- said. “The one thing you don’t do , | ,
n urred, ; : :

? The exhibit points out that rag gets fh 4: book with 4 “People have found it in books $0 woyld the development of the a ae oe = my 6 aoe Se. fen. '
“although books seem sturdy, long rusty paper clip or a wet lettuce ‘hey hardly open on that page atomic bomb, the Cold War or to- ee ou’re building whatever conclusion *
lasting objects, without the proper leaf unless I have a slice of bacon ®"Ymore,” Warrensaid. day’s problems in the Middle East. In the recent instance, Turner YOU might arrive at on sand —or « | ,
care and handling they will quickly handy.” Brown emphasized that the Turner, who called Hitler the was referring to problems in acade- detract 1
fall apart.” Other abuses shown in the exhibit library does not want to take the “greatest” figure of the 20th cen- ‘mic circles with “non-knowledge. But Abraham’s actions are not

The exhibit shows actual damag- are a broken spine caused by push- Pleasure away from reading books, tury, moral judgments aside, cited He has been involved in a dispute what disturbs Turner most in this “ | *¢
ed books from the library’s collec- ing down too hard when making ut is “trying to raise people's con- Hitler's lack of education as a ma- with David Abraham, a former controversy, which has received at- , | ,
tions. photocopies, curled pages from ex-  Sciousness so that the collection jor factor in explaining his actions. member of the history department tention in the national press. What

University Librarian Barbara posure to moisture and two books _ lastsas long asit should.” In a man such as Hitler, Turner at Princeton University, over errors troubles him is the refusal of a * | *
Brown and reference librarian chewed by dogs. Brown explained that in addition said, “‘high intelligence, without the Turner found in a book Abraham great many historians to challenge j
Yolanda Warren have seen similar Some advice is offered to those to paying twice for a book that must tempering effect of a liberal educa- ee the rise : Hitler, a topic Abraham.
exhibits. Brown said that she and book users who take the quiz. It be replaced, there are “physical tion, can give rise to ideas of great seme pirihestl imself has also “The most shocking aspect is not *“*~
Warren had discussed “ways to says “congratulations” to people processing” costs associated with peril. 1 materia: that the person would alter the +4 | ¢
educate the community about the who score zero, but advises those ordering a book. Or, an out-of-print _ Turner’s lesson for the 22 Phi Although Abraham has admitted evidence,” Turner said, ‘‘but that so a
problems associated with food and frequent book abusers who have in- book may not be replaceable. A $7 Beta Kappa initiates was that in- the errors in his book, he contends many other people would say it
drink.” dicated an “unhealthy attitude to rebinding cost might also be incur- tellectual achievement must come that they do not damage his thesis; doesn’t matter. That has shocked ¢ | *

Brown explained that she has the books and learning” to “leave red in a disciplined manner. The result instead he says they strengthen it. metomy professional foundations.” |, | ,

s e j ® a ’ 7

84 wi square off in Monday s election “ae

. . [M) * &

Senior president Tommy McBride lan Bottomley Chuck Shissias a4
Mark Oluvic Jim Ambrosini Christopher C. Brand

Greg Barrow Hunter Applewhite Mike Forrester Mark Bryant ° ‘ _

Mike ee J vp David Lawrence Greg Dale oO 7 '

Louis Cella unior E. Wright Ledbetter

—— Sophomore VP Eddie Yu e |:
Senior VE David Jordan aaa Michael Watson el
; : Charlie Benedict Alston Parker
on Don Nimey David E. Thompson Christopher S. de Movellan ‘ ‘
Rich Hobson ; 1 Holifield eH
Doug Elliott Michae Heidi Read
Andrew Reibach aon Coffland Bud Meadows te - (ALLAN HL HNN “Ee
rarsg  Devitaie Fritz Lake oi Sadiolary 4
ris erioc i Clare Ka e + jaan" APA AARAR RAS. 5 j
Rob Tolleson Junior EC Amy ale Sonhomore UC 5° (AX ARIS SOND 2 AR 2
Scott Yancey Brandt Wood Tom West p eaG
: Pat Schaefer
Senior EC Brad Root Sophomore EC Rob Guyton SHARE THE WORK ake
Tom O’Brien Melissa Thrasher wee ORKLOAD! Si

Andrew Caruthers Lester Coe Matt Bryant Carol Couch == a ee ie

aan Petes pageretnelll To those students, faculty and ‘i

Baltzer LeJeune Dan Fales staff members who would like ise

Rob Merritt Sean Campbell to he a littl : . eh

Michael “Weezy” McGarry | IBM/PC FAIR Oo have a little more free time — :

Marshall Eubank Junior UC vou now have the Opportunity i

Sen ior UC Todd S. Barton 1BM Corporation and Washington and Lee Computer Center to share vour workload Wisk J ise
— Michael Suttle are sponsoring a Personal Computer Fair: an IBM Personal Computer i

John Brownlee Charles Lyle 3 A : :

' : Buck Wiley Tuesday, March 25th PC’s are workaholies and they ‘
Junior president 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. love what they do. Check F
“Saab ns PN RO Sophomore president Room 109, Student Center tk ‘ ! * : : se t

Mike Henry IR REISER NETO lem Out. See how easy it is to

Jim Lancaster Frank ands assy gue maser Semmens et acquire one

Jim Morgan John Hamilton ee eee ee pane : enter ‘

: a 1-2-3, IBM‘s Filing Assistant, Planning Assistant and Graphing Assis- ‘“
: no event re ao tant will be available for your evaluation. oon ps Ben neem Center
John Gammage rutcher arch 25th,
Students, faculty and staff members may purchase IBM/PCs at a 30% from 10 a.m. -5 p.m, tosee :
educational discount and IBM offers special financing arrangements. how IBM/PCs can help '
VARNER & POLE Be sure to pick up a price sheet and information on financing at the you!”’
Fair.
Furniture Dealers We invite the Washington and Lee community to stop by the Student us 2 ,
115 S. Main Street 463-2742 Center to take advantage of this opportunity to view 1BM Personal Washington & Lee University”
leoeeeeaeeneiceial eornrahcenntaoeesintiaioeeeeinpmigens sel

 

 

 

 

he

“For your extra pieces of furniture’’ Computing Equipment and Software.

   

 

 

 

 

—

a arpyeee
 

W&L CR elected to

State-wide office,
sparks controversy

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

John Pensec, currently chairman
of the W&L College Republicans, has
been elected to a seat on the state-
wide board of that organization.

Pensec, a junior from Ridgewood,
N.J., was selected as the second vice
chairman of the College Republican
Federation of Virginia at a conven-
tion of Virginia College Republicans
over Washington Holiday, In his new
position, Pensec is responsible for
starting new clubs in the state and
strengthening existing organizations.

Pensec was also re-elected as
chairman of the W&L College Repub-
licans Monday night.

Pensec’s election to the state-wide
office sparked controversy among
the W&L College Republicans,
though, with the resignation of club
treasurer Reade Williams. Williams
resigned in protest of the use of funds
from the club here to finance Pen-
sec’s campaign for the state-wide of-
fice.

Williams said his resignation was
“mostly a symbolic gesture’ to pro-
test use of club funds in Pensec’s
“Jast minute’ campaign. Williams’
duties as treasurer would normally
have ended in two weeks, he said.

“T don’t have a problem with using
ae ’ ¢ . fH" veimburs-

ed,”’ said Williams, whose main ob-
jection was that the use of the club’s
money was not discussed beforehand
by the leaders of the club here. He
said that it seemed as though the
W&L members who went to the state
convention ‘noticed they had the
support to win”’ a position for Pensec
and used club money to doit.

This action was later approved by
the Executive Board of the W&L Col-
lege Republicans.

“TI don’t want to detract from
John’s election,’’ Williams said, but
“club funds should be used for the
club as a whole, not for the political
aspirations of one member.”

Pensec insisted that the use of the
money was ‘‘a legitimate expense”’
that would benefit the W&L club in
the long run. He noted that club funds
were used last year, when senior
Gerald Shepherd lost his bid for a
state position.

The W&L College Republicans
have always had a strong representa-
tion on the state board, according to
Pensec. At one time in the early ’70s,
three of the board’s six members
were from W&L.

The Virginia College Republicans
hope to have 20 new clubs at cam-
puses throughout the state by the end
of this year, so that they will be in
place for the fall congressional elec-
tions. Establishing these clubs will be
Pensec’s responsibility.

“This will involve a lot of time on

 

 

 

JOHN PENSEC

the phone with people from places
like Radford and Roanoke,” said
Pensec, who adds that his job is
mainly to “offer a contact between
the state organization and the local
level.”

In the local area, Pensec noted, two
people have shown interest in run-
ning against the incumbent congress-
man, Democrat Jim Olin. One of
these possible candidates is a W&L
alumnus from Lynchburg, who Pen-
sec hopes will spark interest on the
campus. “Olin can be beat, but it’s
going to be rough,” said Pensec.

Pensec feels that having a member
on the state board will be beneficial
for the club here because it will get
W&L Republicans involved in state-
wide political affairs rather than just
local events.

Pensec said interest in the College
Republicans has dropped off consid-
erably since the gubernatorial elec-
tion in the fall, when there were
about 200 chartered members.

The club, Pensec said, is ‘‘current-
ly in limbo,” but several events are
planned for the spring.

For instance, he said, a challenge
has been issued to the W&L Young
Democrats for a softball game, but
no response has been received.

Committee to present alcohol forum

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Carol Calkins and John Wiltse,
members of the Alcohol and Health
Awareness Committee, gave a pre-
sentation about Alcohol Awareness
Week Tuesday night at the Inter-
fraternity Council meeting.

Alcohol Awareness Week will be
next week. On Wednesday there will
be a panel discussion concerning
“Responsible Drinking: Avoiding
Abuse,” at 7 p.m. in Room 109. of
the University Center.

The panelists are Dr. James Wor-
th, W&L’s counseling psychologist;
Al Davis, a W&L alumnus and a

staff member of Alcohol and Drug
Abuse Services of Rockbridge Coun-
ty; and Chip Jones, a local resident
and an active member of alcohol
education in the Lexington-Rock-
bridge area.

“This is the first time the Alcohol
Committee has been active,’’ in do-
ing programs and offering help,
Wiltse said.

In response to rumors that the
committee had been formed to ban
alcohol on campus, Calkins said the
committee is not ‘‘out there beating
a drum, saying ‘No drinking.’ ”

“The whole theme of the commit-
tee...is working - on~ responsible
drinking,” Wiltse said.

In other IFC business, outgoing

President Jaimie Hayne proposed
“legalizing what you would call an
“Initiation Week.”

Hayne said the proposal was in
response to complaints from pro-
fessors that students were missing
classes because of weeknight pledge
activities.

“It’s kind of a farce for me to say
they’re illegal when everyone knows
they go on,” Hayne said.

Under the proposed new rule,
fraternities would indicate to the
IFC the nights they will hold initia-
tion functions.

“That way, we know what’s going
on,’’ Hayfie said. The proposal will
be discussed again at next Tues-
day’s meeting.

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Examination envelopes and in-
struction forms for winter term
exams will be available beginning
Monday in the Registrar’s Office.
The exam envelopes are to be
turned in to professors at the first
class meeting on or after Monday,
March 31. Exams begin Saturday,
April 5 and end Friday, April 11.

“Spartacus,” a 1960 Stanley
Kubrick film, will be shown in
room 327 of the Commerce
School tonight at 7 as part of the
Politics FilmFest. The film, star-
ring Kirk Douglas, Laurence Oli-
vier, Tony Curtis and

reler Usunov, reenacts the tac-

 

CLASSIFIEDS

tual slave revolt against imperial
Rome to dramatize change in
politics: What ultimately justi-
fies change versus order in any
form of polity?

Contributions for the spring
issue of the Ariel, the Washing-
ton and Lee literary magazine,
will be accepted until tomorrow.
Stories, poems or photographs
may be submitted to Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. The magazine will be
published in early May.

The United States Information
Agency (USIA) and the Institute
of International Education (ITE)
announces that the official open-
ing of the 1987-88 competition for
grants for graduate study or

. the language of the host country.

research abroad in academic
fields and for professional train-
ing in the creative and performing
arts is scheduled for May 1. It is
expected that approximately 700
awards to over 70 countries will be
available for the 1987-88 academic
year.

Applicants must be U.S. citizens
at the time of application, who will
generally hold a_ bachelor’s
degree or its equivalent before the
beginning date of the grant and, in
most cases, will be proficient in

Application forms and further
information for students currently
enrolled at W&L may be obtained
from the Fulbright Program Ad-
viser, Professor John M. Evans,
in Payne Hall (32-C).

 

 

  
    
 

finswering” Lexing
Final Exams
Are Coming
Study hard! Study long!
Have trouble getting up?
| Don’t Sleep Through
a Your Finals
| WAKE-UP SERVICE
| 463-1777

‘| Special Rates For Students
a © Box $33 Leningion virgin ase Be

AED
Michelin B.F. Goodrich
x Alignment *

x Brakes x
x Radiator Repairs x
* Swim Tubes x

Hileman Tire & Radiator
536 E. Nelson St.

463-2146

 

 

 

165 S. Main

 

     
  

We have plants and
flowers for any and
every occasion!

 

 

 

463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

Under

_ SARE SP DA IS EE SSIES SPREE TPS
By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The spring-like weather Lexington
is experiencing may help bring
students out of the doldrums many
experience during the winter term.
With exams just around the corner,
however, there may be only a short-
lived reprieve from _high-stress
situations.

College is an especially stressful
period of life because of all the
changes that must be adapted to, ex-
plained James W. Worth, the Univer-
sity’s counseling psychologist.

’ New friends, new unfamiliar living
rangements, heavy course loads and
a budding social life can create a
stressful environment, especially for
freshmen, he said.

Worth defined stress as ‘‘changes,
internally or externally’ in [one’s]
environment.”’ He said that there are
three possible reactions to stress.
“You can get stronger personally,
you can react on the source of stress,
or] you can get the hell out.”’

There are as many causes of
stress as there are people, Worth
said. Sophomore Tim Brennan said
“homework that I can’t under-
stand’? and difficult classes
frustrate him and raise his stress
levels.

Worth described a_ curvilinear
graph in which stress and mental
alertness are compared. He said that
at the point at which there is no
stress, there is also no mental activi-
ty.

As stress rises, mental alertness
also increases to the point at which
consciousness reaches its peak. If
more stress is added to a person’s en-
vironment after that point, however,
mental awareness deteriorates,
eventually to the point of a nervous
breakdown.

Many students find themselves
past their point of controllable stress
and then make drastic cuts in their
school work and social lives, Worth
said. ‘‘There has to be the middle
ground,”’ he emphasized.

“Y chink it’s important for people to
read their own stress signs,’’ Worth
said. ‘‘If you know your stress signs,
you know when you're getting into a
stressful situation.”

Worth said that many students
create especially stressful situations
for themselves by placing demands

 

Lexington Hardware

 

463-2242

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

    

your head

for my business

The Sandwich Shop appreciates
your business!
Come by and have one of our deluxe

Italian Subs — only $2.20

To Go Orders - 463-2595
Old Main Street Mall

Hair Wates

 

|

GRAND OPENING

Stop by today and register for your student discount
card which entitles you to 10% off any service.

Hair Mates

18 Va. locations to serve you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-1605

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986, Page 5

stress

Pressures of student life
create demands, confusion

on themselves that are too great.
When their goals are not met
satisfactorily, Worth said, ‘‘they
become very angry with them-
selves.”’

Sophomore Gregg Kettles said,
“Grades give me_ stress.’ The
pressure he feels to do well in
school comes from within himself,
not his parents, he added.

Worth pointed out that many
students confuse what they think is
stress with depression. He said many
students say they are ‘‘unexcited
about life, not sad,” and they
therefore dismiss depression as the
cause of those feelings because many
think depression means feeilng down
in the dumps.

“A minimum of 50 percent of the
students....will experience depres-
sion,’’ Worth said. He said symptons
of depression include tiredness, dif-
ficulty in organizing time, lack of
self-confidence, irritability, a feeling
that one’s life is unmanageable, and
fitful sleep.

“You've probably got a depression
going in your life,” if you experience
these symptoms, Worth said.

Worth said he sees the greatest ma-
jority of his depression cases during
winter term. He said the newness of
school having worn off, the search for
a job, seeing grades from fall term,
and the dreary weather combine to
leave many students feeling blue.

Worth applauded the administra-
tion for placing breaks every six
weeks through the winter and spr-
ing terms because they help break
the monotony of school life.

Brennan also approves of W&L’s
schedule. ‘‘I think that by the time
the term is coming to a close,
you’re ready to get out of here,” he

said.

Worth offered some tips on how to
reduce the effects of stress. He said
the first step is to get three nutritious
meals a day, vigorous exercise three
times a week and — most important
— seven hours of sleep each night. “I
can’t emphasize that enough,” Worth
said.

Sometimes one’s environment
must be changed to eliminate stress,
Worth said. Adjusting course loads,
moving to a more quiet residence,
and revamping one’s study techni-
ques are among his Suggestions.

The key to dealing with stress,
Worth said, is “learning to have a
balanced life.”’

Worth urges students to seek
counseling for depression and stress
problems if they feel they cannot
handle the problems themselves.
“One-fifth of studuuis guin.g .. 1h
Washington and Lee avail them-
selves of the counseling,’’ Worth
said.

Worth said that when a student
comes to him about a stress-related
problem, he most often uses what he
calls “progressive relaxation’ to
help the student combat his problem.
Progressive relaxation is a series of
exercises designed to help people
learn to relax. Worth said he tapes
the counseling session so the student
can take the tape to his room and do
the exercises there.

Worth said there is often a stigma
attached to seeing a counselor. At
first, he said, ‘we tend to deny
there’s a problem,’’ If a person
realizes he has a problem, he may
think that going to a counselor
precludes more serious problesm.

“They see it as a sign of being
crazy,” he said.

That, Worth said, is a sad miscon-
ception. He said that in fact, counsel-
ing is mainly designed for the sane,
not the insane. By recognizing and
treating stress-related problems ear-
ly, a student’s stress levels need not
get out of hand.

Worth said two groups here may
experience some unique stress-
related problems — blacks and
women.

The fact thut there are so few
blacks at W&L here may cause stress
for them. ‘That, in and of itself, is
stress,’ Worth said. ‘‘Until we get
more blacks and more minority
students here, it will be tough.”

“T think we’re making strides’’ in
recruiting minorities, he said, but “‘I
think we havea ways to go.”

The change to coeducation caused
problems for both upperclass males
and incoming women. “These are
changes that are stressful,’’ Worth
said.

“T’m very pleased with the way
women are adapting here,’’ Worth
said.

“The great majority of the women
have had few problems, he added,
and only a few have seen him for ad-
justment problems.

“Human growth and development
and maturity come not from being
stress-free but by successfully hand-
ling stress.”’

y r Ee ee

Only Hairstylist to
accept the Colonnade
eT

ie urs
463-9588

y "Marie

=

hare nner ee

 

Movie Rentals — $2.00 per day
3 for *5.00

Player Rental — $5.00
1 Year Membership — 99°

Offer Expires March 31
Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center - 463-2177
Mon.-Sat. 11-9 p.m.

y
Rees ty

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, V1 24450

Oe ee

Join Us For Dinner At

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations

Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North
Sey) aoe + i <j aa saree Oe a 1 RC SR

2 OS Ee ee ee ae a
Easter Special

VIDEO CENTER
OF LEXINGTON

x**
* SPECIAL x

kk *
With this coupon

Pili

Sun. 12-5 p.m.
 

SPORTS bi
Dartmouth dumped, Wahoos next

Goals, goalie A Little Fable

key 17-12 win, wi i nes EM oT a
i ae Se Cs Jae (Reprinted, with a few up-to-date changes, from a 1973

record at 2-1 Ring-tum Phi.)

Once upon a time there was a sleepy little school in a sleepy
little town in a beautiful and green valley with mountains all

By DAVID EMRICH

Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

 

 

 

around. The students at the school were like those anywhere
else — some slept all the time, some played, others walked
around with their noses buried in big thick books. During the
spring there seemed to be fewer and fewer with their noses in
books: most bought inner tubes and spent their Saturday af-
ternoons floating in big pools of beer or Southern Comfort.

Alas, it seemed for a long time that none of these boys could
become interested in anything but reading or floating all day
long. Until one day one got the bright idea of tying a net on
the end of a pole and tossing a ball with it. Soon everyone in
the little town was running up and down the football field,
waving their sticks, hitting each other with them, and having
a glorious time.

Then, word of the Wahoos came to town. No one knew what
a Wahoo was or where the Wahoos came from. They carried
sticks just the same, tossed the ball quickly from one to the
other — and the people in the little town were sore afraid.

Somehow those funny looking Wahoos began beating the
people of the sleepy Itttle town at their own game.

Then the people said, ‘Why don’t we leave our books and
our inner tubes and join together to beat back these Wahoos?
And it was done. The books were tossed aside and the lovely
pools were drunk dry — and everyone gathered together and
traveled to the lair of the Wahoos to end their threat, once
and for all.

Everyone knew the Wahoos, mindless creatures though
they were, would be a mean and fierce bunch, having re-
cently been nipped by a Retriever. But the people in the
sleepy little town were not afraid, having just slain a Big
Green Monster themselves. ‘‘We will not be afraid of any-
thing, especially something as silly as a Wahoo!” they
shouted, and they stormed off to invade Wahooland.

And now the Wahoos are quaking in their collective boots,
locking their doors, and even playing their game on an un-
natural surface in hopes that the people of the sleepy little
town don’t beat them too badly.

You see, Wahoo is just another one of those ‘‘W’’ words
like wimp and whiner; General, if you haven’t noticed, is
one of those ‘‘G’’ words like gentleman and gladiator.

 

When a game plan is well ex:
ecuted, the results will generally be
extremely favorable. On Sunday,
the Washington and Lee lacrosse
game plan was executed almost
flawlessly, and the outcome was
just as * id expect

By employing what head coach
Dennis Daly described as a ‘‘team
effort’’ the Generals handily
defeated the visiting Dartmouth Big
Green by a score of 17-12.

“The defense played aggressively
and forced Dartmouth into taking
tough shots. John Church made
some key saves and started the
transition to offense with excellent
passes. Then our offense took ad-
vantage of the opportunities,’ Daly
said.

The offensive opportunities Daly
spoke of began appearing almost
immediately. The Generals grabbed
a 6-2 lead after the first quarter,
and held that four-goal lead all the
way up to the half.

When the teams returned follow-
ing the intermission, W&L put on a
brief but effective offensive show.
The Generals started the half with
five unanswered goals to take a 15-6
lead and put the game out of Dart-
mouth’s reach.

“We are very pleased that ever)
thing seemed to gel and that we
could execute our game plan,”’ said
Daly. ‘“‘We wanted to improve our
ride, play tough defense and run our
transition game. We demonstrated
we could do that against a good
team.”

“The game gave us confidence,”’
the coach commented, ‘‘confidence
that we could play at the level we
hoped we could play at. And con-

sdidind
By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Two W&L attackmen sandwich a Dartmouth defenseman

 

 

fidence does great things for a
team.”

This year’s incarnation of the
W&L lacrosse team seems to be
more offensively oriented than last
year’s version of the team. Daly
said a strategy reevaluation and a
different schedule were contributors
to the new-look Generals.

“Last year, we didn’t feel we haa
the talent to run with the teams on
the schedule,”’ said Daly. ‘‘When we
evaluated that decision to play con-
servatively, we won some games
with it, but it didn’t allow us to win
some of the games we should have
won.”

schedule,”’ continued Daly, ‘‘we felt <

that we could win by creating some
unsettled situations and pushing the
ball upfield some more.”

LAX FACTS...Church was named
defensive Player-of-the-Game by his
teammates for the second time this
season on the strength of his 24
saves, while senior attackman
Caulley Deringer was honored as of-
fensive Player-of-the-Game by the
squad for his three-goal ef-
fort...Other outstanding _ perfor-
mances on Sunday included G.T.
Corrigan with four goals and an
assist, Bill Garavente with three
goals, and Bill Holmes with five

Lacrosse

C Continued from Page 1

 

not. But it is a big game because
we're talking about what are
generally the two best Division I
teams in the state.”

Scott Stadium has an artificial
surface, something to which W&L is
not accustomed and something that
has given past W&L teams some
difficulty. The Generals’ only other
game on synthetic turf this season
was the season-opening loss to
Duke.

ference in the U.Va. game?

“It makes us faster,’’ co-captain
John said. “Of course, it makes
them faster as well. It affects both
teams the same way. It doesn’t
matter what field we play on, as
long as we go after them.”

Attackman G.T. Corrigan,
another senior, expressed a similar
sentiment. ‘It doesn’t matter to us
where we play. We’re going to give
a good effort.”

Sophomore midfielder Greg
Unger felt that playing on the syn-
thetic surface would benefit the
Generals. ‘‘We’re a faster team this
year,” he said. ‘‘And that’s been our

[playing on turf] can only help us.

“We set goals each week,’’ Unger
continued, ‘‘and on our goal sheet
for this week, there’s a statement
that says, ‘We’re playing just a
team of college players. Not a
university, not a lacrosse tradition.’
They’re just like us, they’re our
age. We’re the underdogs, but we’re
going to go out and go after them.”’

Other members of the team share
Unger’s confidence in the Generals’
abilities.

“We're coming off a good win
against Dartmouth,”’ Corrigan said.
“T think our ball club’s really play-
ing well, and I think that we're in

U.Va.’

“It goes without being said that
U.Va.’s always a talented team,”
senior attackman Caulley Deringer
said. ‘I think that this year they
have a few young players playing
some key roles and that’s going to
work to our advantage because we
do have 10 Seniors.”

Deringer continued: ‘“‘We’ve had
two big wins in the last couple of
weeks and we’re kind of on a roll,
and things are really going to be
looking up for Saturday, and we're
very optimistic about it. We’re not
going to hold back ... we’re just go-
ing to go at them and hope for the

 

 

“This year with the change in

 

assists.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Will playing on turf make any dif-

game plan,

transition, and that

the best situation this year to take

best.””

 

 

 

 

   

      
 

 

 

SF EMO N ies

Oy

   
   
 

Acceptor of the Colonnade Card

eee Te

 

 

 

for Easter.

baskets, stuffed animals,

 

 

 

Cheech & Chong’s

Next Movie
(Friday, Mar. 21)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| ’
6 J a 2 5 i 5
Let's dispense with the Cavalier attitude |;
,
...Well, the upcoming weekend Well, while the book isn’t shut on that matter just yet, we’ve got to — let’s dispense with the Cavalier attitude toward commitment and :
TIME for Washington and Lee lacrosse stop to give credit where credit is due. Campers, the W&L be committed to letting our peers (and our students) know that their :
certainly has been put in the right gentlemen can flat out play lacrosse. They’re fun to watch. There’s efforts are not going unnoticed. It often is the difference between ;
OUT perspective by the NCAA tourna- something intangible here, too, called confidence. Don’t expect these winning and losing. =
*** ment upsets last weekend. guys to back off. Just ask Steve McGrath, who made a hit Sunday The game this weekend is a chance to dispel the lack of campus te
ms It’s a good thing, too, because afternoon that left a Dartmouth player unsure of what continent he confidence in the lacrosse program. The onus is on you, the fans. |
( @ By Mike when the Generals travel to was on. But you have to watch them to get the gist of what I’m say- For W&L to have a chance against U.Va., the team must give its
Stach Charlottesville this weekend, they’ll ing. Emphasis on ‘‘have to watch.” best effort of the year. But they cannot win it alone. There’s no ’
achura be looking for their first win over Let’s get a large group of people in Charlottesville on Saturday. doubt in my mind that the team will live up to its end of the .
the Wahoos since Jimmy Carter This game is an important game for W&L lacrosse, and as such, bargain. Be just as equal to the task by living up to yours....The
was big. And that little voice that tells me I ought to be writing deserves the proper amount of support. The W&L lacrosse program game starts at 2 p.m. Saturday at Scott Stadium. Admission is a .
home is telling me this year’s game with the neanderthals from has suffered the abuse of doubting Thomases long enough. It has paltry $3..... »
over the mountain may be just a bit different from the last three proved itself ready for the task of destroying that doubt. But the
W&L-U.Va. games I’ve been privileged to live through. You see, team is going to need more than the casual interest of friends and Ss... While we're basking in the Colonnade, we ought to mention °
both me and the little voice are about as fed up with U.Va. beating family to defeat Virginia on the Astroturf of Scott Stadium. (Unfor- that this weekend in Philadelphia (two matches with two of the best ‘
W&L in jacrosse as we were with Roanoke beating W&L in basket- tunately, Astroturf may be the biggest advantage the Wahoos have. teams in the country) is rather large for W&L tennis. A win against
ball. The game is a whole ‘nother animal on the artificial surface.) The Swarthmore or Claremont or both should get the net-men into the ,
(Before I go any further, I must confess that the temptation here Generals will need some very real, very visible support. national championships...Track is still in dynasty mode: three wins .
is to write a homer column, But wait. Is that such a bad thing? It We all know that apathy is a boil on the butt of this campus. That on Saturday, including a 105-33 slashing of Davidson...
would do me and probably all of you some good for W&L to beat the has been a given from Day One. However, it need not necessarily be ... You figure out the NCAAs — nobody else can. Upset of the up- .
tar out of the Wahoos. And the possibility is quite real.) the case here. It’s easy to cheer for the home team when the na- coming week? How about Auburn over UNLV and week? Carolina- +
It has been some time since a W&L lacrosse game has held this tional championship is on the line. But that need not be a necessary Louisville and possibly Davy-Duke...P.S.: Source tells me that
much significance, and perhaps that’s even more good news than requirement for fan support. (Indeed, even when W&L has been up David Robinson holds the Naval Academy record for the ebstacle
whether the Generals win the game by six goals or two goals. The for a national championship (the tennis team last year), there was course and is something of a whiz on the pommel horse, too. File ‘
point is that with this Saturday, W&L lacrosse is ready to make a little support — despite the championships being held at W&L!) No, that.... ;
statement to all those non-believers who have been lamenting that what is necessary is some recognition, some partisan support, the ..Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Dave Parker: “I used cocaine
Lee’s little college is out of its league by trying to play Division I kind that, as I understand it, was here at one time and has not been for recreation. I never had a problem.”’ Kind of like golf, huh °
lacrosse. seen in awhile. For once — and perhaps it will become a trend Dave’....... ;
.
vorny
NEED LUboL 103-463-1670 4
on | S.A.B. FILMS |
(rit: 703-377-6331 AD. ‘aa
Students under 21 _ presents - 4
Must Have ; '
prior Insurance Lettuce A COMEDY WEEKEND! ad
Approval Brian and Doris featuring ae
Fredrick : ‘
st aaa all hop down to Monty Python's oe |
FANTASIES The Meaning of Life - |
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 (Thursday, Mar. 20) ,

i
9 sc «@
: McCRUM’S DRUG’S 1 jewelry, basket stuffers Monty Python's '
i For those y ll ab The Life of Brian :
25% off All Easter : or those you carrot all about. a
' % aster Merchandise ' ee (Sunday, Mar. 23)
é (except candy) + si acostaheaieeaiael occlusal i. ’
‘ 8:05 p.m.  o
; 17S. Main Street : ( J Aadalashonbe .
4 a
&
 

 

 

Thinclads start undefeated,
outrun six in two meets

~

™

”

~

~

*

”

~

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Talk about continuity,

The Washington and Lee track
and field team picked up right
where it left off as it moved out-
doors to start its 1986 campaign.
The thinclads began their outdoor
season with six victories in two
meets this week.

On Tuesday, the Generals played
the unfriendly host to three Old
Dominion Athletic Conference op-
ponents, downing Roanoke, Bridge-
water and Eastern Mennonite by
winning 12 of the 17 events during
the afternoon.

The Tuesday meet was a repeat
performance of Saturday’s opener
at Davidson, N.C., where W&L was
victorious in its first outdoor com-
petition, taking 15 of 17 events from
the host Wildcats and beating Bar-
ber-Scotia, 95-38, and the College of
Wooster, 71-68.

Against the ODAC foes on Tues-
day, the Generals performed well
despite a number of athletes who
saw limited action due to health

problems, Chris Bleggi, the ODAC
Indoor Runner-of-the-Year, has
been battling bronchitis, and Kevin
Weaver has a slightly pulled ham-
string.

However, both were members of
the Generals’ victorious 400-meter
relay team, and Bleggi managed to
run in the 100 meters.

Add to Bleggi and Weaver a sick
Richard Moore, who competed in
the 1500 meters despite his illness,
and you get a worried W&L head
track coach Norris Aldridge.

“IT didn’t know how well we would
do,” he said. ‘‘We’re not fully
healthy and Roanoke is an improv-
ed team.”’

The coach also commented that
due to late classes, the Generals
rarely have had a complete team at
practice.

W&L was led on the track by An-
dy White and Bill Rhinehart. White
took the 110- and 400-meter hurdles,
and co-captain Rhinehart finished
first in the 100 meters and the triple
jump.

Co-captain Chris McGowan took
first in the 400 meters and also an-

Golf fights weather;
Leslie ‘pleased’

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee golf
season has begun on a positive note
with a win in the team’s first match
of the season and a respectable finish
at a miulti-divisional tournament
over the weekend.

Yesterday, the Generals easily
defeated Shenandoah on the Lex-
ington Country Club course. The
team was led by Jeff Kimbell’s 77
and John Gammage’s 79.

»

*

v

~

The team slipped and slid into an
llth-place tie last weekend in the
James Madison Invitational.

The -22-team tournament, which
included Division I, If and II

» teams, was played despite heavy

rains during the first round on Fri-

‘day. The rain seemed to help the
» Generals as they shot a combined

, 316 on Friday, good for seventh
place.

Diamond squad plagued fia
‘by errors, feeble hitting §

 

. By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

, Plagued by feeble hitting,

Washington and Lee’s baseball squad
* dropped a pair of contests this week,
+92 to Christopher Newport last
Thursday, and 7-1 to Bridgewater
* Tuesday.
+ The two losses bring the Generals’

 

“I was pretty much pleased with
the performance for our first
outing,’ said Leslie. ‘“‘Most of the
other teams had played at least
once.”

Led by sophomores Gary Camp-
bell (74-82) and Chip Gist (79-79),
W&L had a two-day total of 639.
Also scoring for the Generals were
senior captain Greg Wheeler (80-82)
and freshman Pete Coleman (83-80).

“Pete was not much of a sur-
prise,’ stated Leslie. ‘‘He has the
potential to play well for us.”’

The Generals travel down south to
Elon, N.C. for the Max Ward Invita-
tional next Monday and Tuesday.

The team has been practicing out-
side as much as it can, even brav-
ing the cold temperatures and
some occasional snow flurries.

“Tt don’t know how much it ac-
complished physically but mentally
it may have given us some con-
fidence,”’ said-Leslie.

record to 0-3-1.

Coach Jim Murdock refused to
make excuses for the winless
Generals. ‘“‘We’re not concentrating
out there,”’ he stated. “Bridgewater
did an excellent job, and we just
didn’t play well.”’

As for the future, Murdock said,
“We're not a great hitting club. We
can’t sit back on our heels. We’ve
got to execute to win.”

Against Newport, the Generals
could only muster seven hits in the
defeat. Pitcher Bill Schoettelkotte
was charged with five earned runs in
four innings and was tagged with the
loss. Third baseman Milam Turner
was the only General to pick up two
hits in the game.

The Generals’ offense was even
weaker at home against Bridge-
water, collecting only five hits and
scratching for one run in the ninth.
W&L hurler Carter Steuart was
touched for five runs (three earned)
in seven innings and was saddled
with the loss. Bridgewater’s hurler
Alan Stadler was responsible for
stifling the Generals.

W&L also had problems on
defense, committing five errors, two
each by shortstop Harry Halpert and
first baseman Schoettelkotte.

Halpert gained partial redemption
by driving in the Generals’ lone tally
with an infield hit in the bottom of the
ninth.

Saturday’s scheduled. doublehead-
er with Shenandoah was canceled.

The Generals will face Eastern
Mennonite at home today, Randolph-
Macon in a doubleheader Saturday,
and then go on the road to Hampden-
Sydney for another doubleheader
Monday.

Members of the University Community © Guests

Beat the Winter Doldrums

 

Join Us For

A SOUP & SANDWICH BUFFET

All You Can Eat $2.00 inc
Monday, March 24, 1986
11:45 AM to 1:15 PM

tax

EVANS DINING HALL

chored the winning mile relay team.
Freshman Jamie Urso rounded out
W&L’s track winnings with a top-
notch performance in the 800.

The Generals dominated in the
field, sweeping five of seven events.
Tom Murray captured the shot put
with a toss of 45-10 and co-captain
Jim McLaughlin took first in the
discus by almost 28 feet. Joe Fisher
was tops in the pole vault, while
Mike McAlevey easily captured the
javelin competition.

On Saturday, the Generals opened
their season with many solid perfor-
mances. Bleggi won both the 100
and 200, while McGowan captured
the 400 meters. Urso also was first
in the 800 meters. White and
McLaughlin also earned victories.

Aldridge summed everything up
by saying, ‘“‘We won what I thought
we would. We were a little sore
after Saturday so we had an easy
Monday. But we ran well for our
first meet.”’

The Generals travel to Lynchburg
for the Liberty University Invita-
tional on Saturday.

4

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986, Page 7

 

 

 

 

 

Netters win,
await best

in Div. Ill

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team continued to play well
this week, and the good play was
finally rewarded with a victory.

The Generals, who had played a
couple of close matches against
Division I foes, got their first vic-
tory of the season on Saturday with
a very important 5-4 win over Divi-
sion I William and Mary. W&L
claimed its second victory of 1986 on
Tuesday, blanking Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opponent
Hampden-Sydney, 9-0.

Going into the William and Mary
match, the Generals knew they
could challenge the team that in the
past had usually had its way with
W&L squads.

Benefitting from singles wins by
freshman No. 3 Bobby Matthews,
sophomore No. 5 Jack Messerly and
senior captain No. 6 Scott Adams,

 

 

 

Andy White clears hurdle in 400 meters

= . ee
EE

Courtney Coyle hits a forehand in Tuesday’s Lynchburg match

Lady netters winless after three

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team lost to Lynchburg, 7-2,
Tuesday afternoon to drop its record
to 0-3.

The three losses have all come at
the hands of Old Dominion Athletic
Conference opponents, but Tuesday’s
effort marks the closest match of the
season for the women.

Head coach Bill Washburn said
Tuesday’s individual scores reveal
that the match itself was closer than
the final score indicates. The
Generals lost three three-set match-
es, including one in a_ third-set
tiebreaker.

Courtney Coyle posted a singles
win for W&L, while the team of
Valerie Pierson and Martha Chris-
tian scored a doubles victory.
Pierson-Christian claimed the No. 2

doubles match with a close 7-6 (7-3),
7-5 victory.

Coyle, who has the only singles
wins for the year, won the No. 5
singles flight after losing the first set
and then rallying in the second and
third sets. The freshman won 2-6, 6-2,
6-3.

“Courtney is a rather strong player
at the No. 5 position,’’ Washburn
said,

Concerning the entire team, Wash-
burn said, ‘‘I think they are learning
and are getting experience.”

Injuries pose the only major pro-
blem that Washburn has had to face.
He noted that his No. 1 player, Bitsy
Hopper, played Tuesday’s match
with a back injury, but added that
she should be healthy for the team’s
next matches, a two-day tournament
in Emory this weekend.

The young W&L team will gain
more experience at the Emory and

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

   

W&L entered the doubles matches
tied with the Tribe.

Adams teamed with Roby Mize at
No. 2 doubles and Matthews teamed
with Chris Wiman at No. 3 doubles
for the two wins that gave W&L the
match.

Head coach Gary Franke said he
was pleased with the win, but
thought the score could have been
more one-sided. ‘“‘We had oppor-
tunities to do better than we did in
the singles,” he said.

The Generals had little trouble
defeating Hampden-Sydney in a
match that gave W&L its first
reminder this season of what it’s
like to dominate a Division III oppo-
nent. Due to rain, W&L lost two
chances for similar opportunities
against Christopher Newport on Fri-
day and Emory and Henry on Wed-
nesday.

There is little chance, however,
that W&L’s weekend matches,
against Swarthmore and Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps (two of the best in the
nation in Division III), will bear any
resemblance to the Hampden-Syd-
ney match.

The weekend will undoubtedly
play a crucial role in the Generals’
hopes for a bid to the national
championships. The pre-season
rankings had Swarthmore fifth,
W&L sixth and Claremont seventh.

“They’re just real important
matches for us and they will set the
tone for the rest of the season,”
Franke said.

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Have a
message
for that
special
someone?

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Try The Phi
Classifieds.

Henry College Tournament, slated
for Friday and Saturday. In addition
to the host Wasps and W&L, the
round-robin event will also include
Randolph Macon College at. Ashland
and Bridgewater.

Next week, the Lady Generals will
play a home match against Mary
Baldwin on Tuesday

 

 

 

    
   
   
    
   
   
         
       
 
  
 
    
 
      
   
   
     

Finishing Touch

New location next to Shenandoah
Office Supplies!

All your typing and word processing needs
463-1622

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine®@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

 
 

®
Lf

bn

 

 

BACK PAGE

Paul’s break options

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

The second choice is the Florida vacation.
The types of things one sees in films such as “Spring

 

The Washington and Lee soil aeration brigade has
been out in full force this week, and in the same way
that the groundhog is a harbinger of spring, the ap-
pearance of this crew on campus hints at a long-
awaited phenomenon only weeks down the road: spring

break

The first step is deciding what to do for break. There
are, it seems, four categories of things to do:

*gohome

¢ goto Florida

¢ take an exotic vacation
¢ other.

Going home for break is always a popular choice.
The reasons for this are numerous: can’t find anyone to
go anywhere with, have to go home to get a summer
job, haven't been home since Christmas and ‘‘the
folks’ want to see you, or any of a number of other

Mid

A trip nome has its good points, though. The cooking
is better than what is generally found here, .and it is a
prime time to hit your parents up for stuff that you’ve
- staying around home instead of chas-
ing scantily clad women on dirty beaches makes your

been wanting

‘rents think highly of you.

Break”’ are not likely to happen. A more likely scenario
has one going to a beat, dirty bar and spending about
$20 an hour on watered-down drinks. And if one is
especially lucky, he will return, sunburned and alone,
to a bed that his friends have graciously peppered with
sand, so that he will be in pain all night long

The exotic vacation is the one that takes you to the

Caribbean, Mexico, Europe or some other out-of-the-
way place. These tend to have an inherent advantage

over the other categories because one is in a totally
new environment, that has not been captured in C-rate

movies

about them.

well.

The “‘other’’ category includes options available to
those students on athletic teams who have to remain in
town, those going to interviews, and others, I will not
discuss those in depth because they are not particularly
exciting, and I can’t think of anything humorous to Say

So, forget about the lack of Paulina Porizkova look-
alikes on the Lauderdale beach who were there two
weeks ago, as the bartenders invariably will tell you,
and concentrate on making the best of the situation and
think about spring term, for that will be a vacation as

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

 

~ wee =
A le

 

Here’s a Violent

The Violent Femmes, a popular new music group
from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, perform at the student ac-
tivities pavilion Saturday night. Their set featured

Femme

the Naked.”

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

songs from their three records and was highlighted by
selections from their latest effort, ‘The Blind Leading

‘Wok’ offers ‘Chinese food, not-so-exotic drinks and a lei’

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

Picture yourself seated at a table
surrounded by lush, plastic palm
trees, large air ducts overhead and
“Don Ho and Frank Sinatra Sing
Christmas Carols’ wafting about
your ears. Is this some old MGM
film, you ask? Maybe Magnum,P.I.,
in Lexington? No, it’s the Aloha Wok.

Yes, “‘The Wok,’’ as Washington
and Lee sophisticates call it, is the
only place in Lexington where you
get authentic Chinese food, not-so-

exotic drinks, and a lei to boot. We
knew that it was a must to review the
repast of this Lexington legend. Un-
fortunately, Chris saw fit to execute a
late-night refrigerator raid that left
him crying uncle on the day of our
review. The only resort was to call
in Designated Relief Chowhound
Walter Devine, and thus we pressed
on.

The Wok’s menu is quite extensive,
with 10 appetizers, four soups and
more than 30 entrees. After survey-
ing our prospects we ordered. While
we waited for our appetizers, Walter
experimented with various lei posi-
tions while W&L alumnus Sparky
Anderson terrified Jamie with

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 
     
     

  
   
  

Redken

   
  
   

Phone: 463-3614

a—" Sm
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

Walk in or phone for appointment

EAST LEX

US 11 North

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

Nexus

463-3975

Open ‘til midnite

 

oo Cte O he O EWES

   

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy®
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

 

 

¢ Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only *3.49. Children under 6
years-9%

 

 

“Hut.

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

$2. off any large pizza

or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

 

Hi

 

rpo----------

yore Fy
Da

expires
600 E. Nelson St. .
Lexinatan, VA April
453-/000 20,

 

 

disgusting stories about the real
world.

Soon, our Flaming Puu Puu Tray
arrived, and we dug in. The Puu Puu
Tray (the name is so silly, you’re
almost embarrassed to order it),
consisted of barbecued rib, shrimp
tempura, fried wonton, chicken
wings and sliced barbecued pork.
The ribs were OK, but there wasn’t
much barbecue sauce and thus not a
lot of taste. The sliced pork tasted
about the same, but at least we did
not have to nibble around the bone.

Shrimp tempura was a large

shrimp fried in a batter. Unfortu-
nately, there was a bit more batter
then there was shrimp and when the

shrimp was finally found, it wasn’t
worth the search. The fried wonton is
a large noodle also fried in batter.
Jamie did not enjoy this appetizer,
but for those who like fried batter,
this is for you.

Last, there were the fried chicken
wings, which were a good argument
for Kentucky Fried Chicken coming
back to town. As a matter of fact, the
entire appetizer should have been
named the Flaming So-So tray,
because everything was just that.

After our soups we waited for our
entrees and took in the exotic at-
mosphere of ‘‘The Wok.’ At one point
Walter insisted he saw monkey
swinging among the gaily decorated

 

air ducts, but Jamie merely brushed
it off as a hangover-induced phan-
tasm. The point became moot as our
entrees arrived.

Walter’s chicken almond consist-
ed of diced chicken — fried with
peas, mushrooms, celery and top-
ped with almonds. The chicken was
rather bland, although the vegeta-
bles and rice were well-cooked.

Jamie’s beef Szechuan style was
also rather bland. There seemed to
be too much sauce that smothered
the taste of the tender beef.

Subtle taste is what Chinese food is
all about. A good restaurant can take
the conglomeration of ingredients
that makes up an average Chinese

dish and somehow allow the full
variation of flavors to come through.
It is this lack of subtlety that makes a
meal at the Aloha Wok one that is
easily forgotten, although reasonably
enjoyable at the time.

So what is the Aloha Wok? Well, it’s
something between Chun King and
New York’s Chinatown — which (cur-
prise, surprise) puts you somewhere
in the Shenandoah Valley. On the
whole, it’s about what you would ex-
pect, but less than you would hope
for. What does it matter, though?
Just wash that monosodium gluta-
mate down with a few Flaming Vol-
canos and you'll never kyow the dif-
ference.

 

Electric Phoenix, |. tor.: Runswick, King, Rees and Edwards

Man meets machine
for Electric Phoenix

 

Staff Reports

 

Human voice and electronic in-
struments combine to form the uni-
que sounds of Electric Phoenix, a
highly acclaimed contemporary
vocal group.

The group will perform Wednes-
day at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel as the
final act of this year’s Concert Guild
series.

The group consists of four singers
and their sound technician, John

4

 

Summer or Fall 1986
Summer 1987

WASHINGTON
OR

LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

SUMMER SESSION ONLY
at Wadham College
of the University of

OXFORD

Accredited courses in government,
economics, journalism and pre-
law by an outstanding faculty.

 

 

 

Full Academic Year Programs at
the London School of Economics,
St. Andrews Universities, for
Qualified Juniors and Seniors.

All credits transferred through
Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia
(Founded in 1776)

Inquiries to:
Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D.
Admissions Director
The Washington International
Studies Center
212-724-0804 or 0136
(EO/AA)

 

 

 

Whiting. ‘I'he vocal quartet is Judith
Rees, soprano, Linda Hirst, mezzo;
Darryl! Runswick, tenor; and Terry
Edwards, bass.

The group’s performances com-
bine new vocal techniques, theater
and electronics to create a sound
and approach that have earned
them widespread acclaim. Their
first record, released in 1982 on the
Wergo label, was voted “record of
the year’’ by the Sunday Times.

Electric Phoenix performs mater-
ial from composers as diverse as
Henri Pousseur, William Brooks,
John Cage and Luciano Beiro. Whit-
ing carries a sound system compris-
ed of mixers, amplifiers, speakers,
tapes and a relay system and
microphones. Four vocal synthesiz-
ers, controlled by the singers, add a
new dimension to their sound. The
sound system was custom-made for
the group by Soundcraft.

Electric Phoenix has performed
in the Warsaw Autumn, Holland
Festival, BBC Proms, Verlin Bein-

niele, Bergen Festival and the
Stockholm Electronic Festival.
The London Times said: ‘‘Eng-

land’s answer to America’s extend-
ed vocal techniques ensemble has
the smoothness of ABBA, the preci-
sion of the King’s Singers and a vir-
tuosic style of its own which is put
to the service of new, innovative
vocal music.”

Wednesday night’s concert will
feature the following contemporary
selections: ‘“‘Wondrous World’’ by
Eric Stokes, ‘“‘A-Ronne”’ by Luciano
Berio, ‘Songs of the Duke Horse-
men’’ by William Ducksworth, ‘‘Vox
3”’ by Trevor Wishart, ‘‘Madrigals’’
by William Brooks and other short
selections.

W&L Concert Guild performances
are free to the W&L community.
Generals admission is $5 for adults
and $2 for students

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, March 20
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “Spartacus.”” Room 327, Commerce
School.
8p.m.— KOTO RECITAL: Kyoko Okamoto. Lee Chapel.
8 p.m. — TELFORD LECTURE SERIES: David P. Billington,
Princeton University. Northen Auditorium.

Friday, March 21
3:30 p.m, — MATH COLLOQUIUM: “Domain Constants of Injectivi-
ty.” David T. Calvis, University of Michigan. Room 6, Robinson
Hall.
8 p.m. — BUSINESS ETHICS INSTITUTE LECTURE: “Individual
Responsibilities in Business: Moral Dilemmas of Business Per-
sons.”’ Patricia Wehane, Associate Professor of Philosophy at
Loyola University. Room 221, Commerce School.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: W&L University Glee Club and the University
of Virginia Women’s Chorus. Lee Chapel.

Saturday, March 22
1p.m,— BASEBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon. Smith Field.
9p.m.— BAND: ‘‘Wildgrass.’’ Cover charge $2. G.H.Q.

Monday, March 24
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Lehigh.

John B. Carman, director of the Center for the Study of World
Religions at Harvard University and acting dean of Harvard’s divinity
school, will speak Monday at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of the Commerce
School. The lecture, titled ‘Karma and Grace: Two Faces of God?” is
sponsored by the religion department under the auspices of the Philip
Fullerton Howerton Fund. The public is invited.

Tuesday, March 25
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Lynchburg College.
3 p.m. — TRACK: Generals vs. Newport News Apprentice and
Roanoke. Wilson Field.
3:15 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Mary Baldwin.
4 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘Some Unsolved Problems in In-
tuitive Geometry.” Victor Klu, University of Washington. Room 6,
Robinson Hall.
7:30 p.m. — CONTACT ’86 LECTURE: Marcus P. Neal, Jr., past
president of Southern Medical Association. C-School, Room 327.
7 & 9:30 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: ‘Dersu Uzala,’’ Room 203,
Reid Hall.
8 p.m, — LECTURE: ‘The Confucian Imprint on Modern China and
Chinese Life.’’ Dr. John R. Watt, Executive Director, American
Bureau for Medical Advancement in China. duPont Auditorium.

Wednesday, March 26
3 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Notre Dame. Wilson Field.
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. University of Evansville,

4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-

SHOP. Job hunting techniques. University Center,

The Geology Department is- offering a three-day course titled
“Well Logging, Seis, and Geopolitics: Experiences of a Recent
Grad.” The course will be taught by John Dean in Howe 206 at 4:30
p.m. Wednesday and Thursday and at 2 p.m. next Friday. Any ques-
tions about the course should be directed to Dr. Spencer (463-8866).

7 p.m, — PANEL DISCUSSION: Student attitudes regarding
alcohol. Room 109, University Center.

The VMI Rod and Gun Club will be sponsoring a turkey hunting
seminar Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Mallory Hall on the VMI post. Bob
Davis, a representative of the National Rifle Association, will con-
duct the seminar. Reservations should be requested by writing:
Turkey Seminar, VMI Rod and Gun Club, VMI Box 5, Lexington,
Va, 24450.

8 p.m. — CONCERT GUILD: Electric Phoenix, Vocal Quartet. Lee
Chapel.

9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN G.H.Q.: featuring ‘The Stains,”’
Sponsored by The Student Activities Board. Cover charge $2.50.

 

 

 

 

 

 
