 

 

Costs

   
   
    

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 24

Speaker warns of
rising medical fees

 

Casts

 

Page 3

Student one-acts run
through Wednesday

pot)
1? f

Page 8

 

 

Your Easter weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Friday: mostly sunny
weekend: partly cloudy

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

MARCH 27, 1986

 

 

 

TOMMY MCBRIDE

EC rebuffs
protest of

class vote

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

~ What would you do if you ran for an
office and your name didn’t appear
on the ballot?

Sophomore Tommy McBride faced
this problem when his name didn’t
appear on the class of 1988 ballots in
Monday’s class elections.

Polls opened at 9 a.m. At 10 a.m.
the Voting Regulations Board noticed
the mistake and then handwrote
McBride’s name on the remaining
ballots. VRB co-chairman Lou
Mondello said about 30 votes had
been cast before the error was cor-
rected.

McBride wasn’t happy with the
VEB solution. ‘It looks bad with my
name just written in there,”’ he said.

At the VRB rule-setting meeting on
March 17, candidates were told they
should check the ballot posted on the
Executive Committee room door to
make sure their names were spelled
the way they wanted them. McBride
did not check the ballot.

McBride made a complaint to the
VRB and asked for a new election.
The VRB denied his appeal. He then
appealed to the EC which has the
final say in the matter.

At a special meeting Tuesday
night, the EC heard arguments from
both sides.

Mondello said that if the EC over-
turned the VRB decision, ‘‘We might
as well not even have a rule-setting
meeting!”’

McBride said he didn’t think there
was any need to check the official
ballot because his name appeared in
the list of candidates in the EC
minutes and in The Ring-tum Phi.

The EC decided to let the VRB
decision stand with a vote of 4-4.

EC President John Lewis said the
committee didn’t feel enough of the
uncorrected ballots were used to
make a difference.

McBride received 18 votes and
missed today’s run-off by 24 votes.

Freshman Michael Holifield suc-
cessfully appealed his defeat to the
VRB because of a shortage of fresh-

OSee Election, Page5

      

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

The University displays a car wrecked in an alcohol-related accident

Alcohol Awareness Week
gets a lukewarm reception

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

University Center secretary Caro] Calkins was a part-
time nurse at Washington and Lee’s Student Health Cen-
ter when she decided there was a need at W&L for more
awareness of alcohol’s effects.

She said that as a nurse for four years she saw students
who had put parts of their bodies through windows, got-
ten in fights, and become sick — all from drinking too
much alcohol.

After being hired to her present job earlier this school
year, Calkins became a member of the student-faculty
Alcohol and Health Awareness Committee and helped co-
ordinate this week’s activities for Alcohol Awareness
Week.

“Applying for the job I now have gave me the oppor-
tunity” to work on alcohol awareness, she said.

And what did it all get her?

The wrecked car she borrowed to illustrate the effects
of drunk driving was vandalized and had to be taken back
to its owner. The car, which was displayed in front of
Warner Center, still has salvage value. Its rear window
was smashed one night this week.

And the alcohol forum she organized Wednesday night

drew one student who wasn’t already a member of the
alcohol committee.

“TI just hoped that some people would be interested
enough to come and listen,”’ Calkins said.

Student attitudes. may have been to blame for the low
attendance, she added.

“T think the word ‘alcohol’ may have scared some peo-
ple off,’’ she said.

The committee’s purpose, she said, is not to fight drink-
ing but to fight irresponsible drinking. Calkins wants
drinking students to “think about the other guy”
— whether friends or fellow fraternity members have a
drinking problem and need help.

“Denial is a big part,” she said.

“W&L is not unique. College campuses have drinking
as a large part of social life. But there is a fine line be-
tween drinking and drinking problems.”’

Calkins said the alcohol problem was brought home to
W&L last year, when junior Chris Hunter was killed in an
alcohol-related car accident on the way home from a
fraternity gathering.

Calkins said the planned forum became a discussion on
how best to reach students with their message. She said
the alcohol committee, which is chaired by Associate
Dean of Students Michael A. Cappeto, may try to orga-
nize more meetings among a smaller number of students.

Omaha prof
named dean
of C-School

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY
and JASON LISI
Staff Reporters

 

A five-month search for a new dean
of Washington and Lee’s School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics
has ended with the selection of Larry
C. Peppers, chairman of the econo-
mics and finance department at
Creighton University in Omaha, Neb.

Peppers, 41, will succeed Edward
C. Atwood Jr., who is stepping down
after 16 years in the deanship. At-
wood will take a year-long sabbatical
before returning as a full-time pro-
fessor.

Peppers said in a telephone inter-
view that he was offered the position
last week, and on Monday the
University announced the appoint-
ment, which is effective July 1.

A book about business forecasting
that Peppers co-authored was
published in 1982 by Prentice-Hall. A
new book on managerial finance that
he co-wrote is scheduled for release
this spring and may be used in some
of his upper-level economics courses.

Peppers received a_ bachelor’s
degree in economics and mathe-
matics from lowa’s Grinnell College
in 1966 and a Ph.D. in economics
from Tennessee’s Vanderbilt Univer-
sity in 1970.

He taught at Knox College in Il-
linois and at Eastern Michigan
University before joining Creighton
in 1976. He was promoted to depart-
ment chair in 1981.

President John D. Wilson, who said
he chaired the search committee for
Peppers because it is ‘‘as crucial an
appointment as we will make,’’ said
in an interview that Peppers was
chosen from a field of approximately
125 applicants, including some
members of the W&L faculty.

That field was narrowed to the
seven who were interviewed, and
Peppers was “everybody’s first
choice,”’ Wilson said.

The 10-member search committee,
which consisted of professors from
all three of W&L’s colleges, was

formed in October, when Atwood an-
nounced his retirement.

The position was advertised for two
weeks in The Chronicle of Higher
Education, a professional journal.
Also, some candidates were nomi-
nated by members of the search com-
mittee.

Peppers, his wife and his two
children arrived in Lexington for a
visit last night. His 18-year-old son,
Todd, will interview this week for fall
admission to W&L. His daughter,
Susan, will be a junior at Lexington
High School next year and his wife,
Fran, teaches at the College of St.
Mary’s in Nebraska.

Peppers said that during his visit to
Lexington last month, he was pleased
by the ‘hospitality, warmth and
sincerity’’ of the people he met, in-
cluding Atwood.

“TI was impressed with him,’’ Pep-
pers said, adding that Atwood’s
reputation and role on campus are ‘“‘a
reflection of sound academic leader-
ship.’’ Peppers said he was chosen
because of his experience with other
small institutions and his _back-
ground in economics.

At Creighton, he said, the introduc-
tory economics courses are compos-
ed of about 35 students, a class size
similar to that at W&L. He noted that
as an undergraduate at Grinnell, he
also was involved in a low teacher-to-
student ratio.

“T had a lot of diverse experience
inside universities,’ he said. ‘‘I felt I
fit the job pretty well.”

He said he is leaving Creighton
because he saw the W&L post as an
advancement — ‘‘upward mobility,”’
he called it.

Peppers explained that he started
looking for another position last year
and applied only to W&L. He said he
was happy with his position at
Creighton and was not in a rush to
find a new job.

But when he came to W&L for an
interview last month, he knew of the
size and ‘excellent’ reputation of the
school. “I did my homework,”’ he

(See Dean, Page 5

Trustees discuss school policy on student felons

 

felons.

voted to award Dederick his diploma,

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

In an effort to define a University
policy regarding the academic status
of convicted felons, the executive
committee of the Board of Trustees
met Sunday with representatives of
the Drug Policy Review Committee.

Psychology Professor Leonard E.
Jarrard, chairman of the drug com-
mittee, said he asked for further
response from the trustee committee
but that as of yesterday had heard
nothing. The drug committee oppos-
ed a blanket rule expelling convicted

No action was taken this weekend,
but the trustee committee is schedul-
ed to make recommendations to the
full Board of Trustees at their May
meeting.

The recent University concern with
drug use began several years ago,
Jarrard said, with the case of
William L. Dederick, a student ar-
rested on drug charges just prior to
commencement exercises in 1983. In
that case, Dederick had fulfilled his
graduation requirements, but ques-
tions arose over whether he should
receive a degree.

a decision that was overturned by the
trustees. The board suspended
Dederick’s degree until his probation
expires in eight years, at which time
they will reconsider whether to give
him a degree.

More recently, the drug conviction
of another student, Gene Girard, pro-
mpted the trustees to consider
whether Washington and Lee should
have a policy for dealing with con-
victed felons.

Girard was convicted of cocaine
possession in August and served six
months in jail. After completing his
sentence he was readmitted to W&L

 

After some debate, the faculty

Aitared states: Your Easter Sunday lineup

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Listen up, ‘““C&E’’ folks: Christmas is, oh,
years away, but Sunday is Easter, and time to
find that house o’ worship that’s been so elusive
since Parents’ Weekend.

You know it’s Easter when for 57 cents at Max-
way you can buy a two-ounce bag of grass — that
nasty synthetic green kind. And even if you’ve
never actually seen a yellow rabbit, for a few
more days you can get a glob of marshmallow
ones at Kroger’s.

But besides the goodies, Lexingtonians in
search of a more serious celebration of Easter
have a whole basket of choices.

Lexington Presbyterian Church is sponsoring
a 6:30 a.m. Sunrise service for students at the
Liberty Hall Ruins. Students are invited to
return to the church for breakfast before the 11
a.m. worship service.

The church, located at Main and Nelson
streets, generally draws 25 to 30 Washington and
Lee students each Sunday, according to its

pastor of 11 years, Dr. L. Randolph Harrison,
who will preach Sunday on ‘“‘Back Home Amaz-
ed.’’

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, which
adjoins the W&L campus at Lee and Washington
streets, will celebrate the Holy Eucharist on Sun-
day at 8:15 and 10:30 a.m. Rector Arthur Lee
Dasher will speak on ‘Where Is the Risen
Christ?”

Se. 4 auick’s Catholic Church at 221 W. Nelson
St. each weekend draws about 150 W&L students
and a similar number of Virginia Military In-
stitute cadets, according to the priest, Father
James M. Noto, who will speak about “The
Resurrected Christ’’ at the 8 and 10:30 a.m.
masses.

A student ‘‘Easter eve Fellowship”’ organized
by four students will be held on Saturday at 7:30
p.m. in Fairfax Lounge. Associate Law Pro-
fessor Samuel W. Calhoun and the Reverend
Paul R. Carter of Grace Presbyterian Church
will speak.

For after church on Sunday, Evans Dining

Hall is offering its usual brunch from 11:30 a.m.
to 12:45 p.m. for $4 or four slashes on that
charge-it-home point card.

But the main event, Evanswise, is Easter din-
ner, available from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. for $4.50 or
442 points. University Food Service Director
Gerald J. Darrell said he’s temporarily depart-
ing from his usual focus on nutrition to fill the
six-foot salad table with $600 in candy for Easter
patrons.

Linda A. Russ, assistant manager of Evans
Dining Hall, chuckled at Darrell’s characteriza-
tion of the display as ‘‘the world’s largest Easter
basket.”’

“You can’t say it’s the world’s largest,
because I’ve seen bigger,’ she said. ‘‘Rock-
bridge County’s largest, maybe.”

The spread features stuffed cornish game hens
and will be set up as a buffet, giving the familiar
food-service lines the night off. The tables will be
set in advance and as a bonus will sport table
cloths

Beginning half an hour before mealtime, a per-
son dressed as an Easter rabbit will have treats
for waiting students

for the winter term, but several days
into classes the Student Control Com-
mittee suspended him for the re-
mainder of this year after a determi-
nation that he was guilty of posses-
sion of cocaine with the intent to
distribute it.

Jarrard said alumni displeasure
with Girard’s readmittance was an
important factor in raising the issue
before the trustees.

Because a blanket rule dealing
with felonies would not make room
for cases that involved special cir-
cumstances, Jarrard said his com-
mittee thought ‘‘it would be a tragic
mistake that any felony conviction

 

 

Daffodils bloom this week on Lee Avenue

would be grounds for expulsion.”’

To demonstrate his committee’s
position, Jarrard used the example of
two students convicted of drug
charges recently. In both cases, Jar-
rard said, the students received the
same jail sentence for possession of
cocaine. But, he continued, the SCC
imposed different sanctions on the
students, suspending one from school
for a term, and giving the other con-
duct and social probation.

What was most important to the
drug committee, Jarrard said, was
the nature of the crimes. In one case,

See Drugs, Page 5

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
   
 

 

OPINION
The rest

Concluding our three-part assessment of this year’s Ex-
ecutive Committee members, here’s a look at the seniors and
law students behind the horseshoe.

President John Lewis, who has brought as many ulcers to
the faculty as he has smiles to his fellow students, is a
remarkably multifaceted individual. When he was elected,
some students wondered how Lewis would do when con-
fronted with a copy of ‘“‘Robert’s Rules of Order.”’ He looked
very at home in the weight room or down the road, but how
would he do with the Board of Trustees or at an honor trial?
Those doubts were allayed quickly: Although not often
mistaken for an intellectual heavyweight, Lewis has
discharged his duties skillfully and with panache, proving
that he has character and is one. Lewis permits committee
and audience members to express their views on issues
under consideration and is careful not to temper the discus-
sion by injecting his own opinion too early. In fact, it was that
«onscientiousness about promoting debate that was his undo-

ing at his least successful meeting of the year. In an effort to
give a group of minority students and an accompanying ad-
ministrator the opportunity to air their views, Lewis at one
point seemed actually to have lost control of the proceedings.
Several members of the audience called on people, accusing-
ly interrogated committee members and even demanded
that Lewis put certain motions to a vote. Although perhaps
the chair should have put his boot down, no one could accuse
him of having stifled their views. Lewis’ greatest shortcom-
ing is his ineffectiveness with the faculty, whose initial skep-
ticism of him has changed to disdain as the year progressed.
Members of the faculty are offended by his views and in-
furiated by his candor, but Lewis has continued telling them
things they don’t want to hear and has managed to take the
resulting flak in stride. Although his frankness and conser-
wvatism have hobbled him with the faculty, those
characteristics have won him the respect of his peers. The
student body president has the uncomfortable role of being a
walking billboard for the Honor System, and Lewis’ nearly
fanatical devotion to the school’s traditions draws the ad-
miration even of those who disagree with him on other issues.
Lewis’ commitment to the school combined with his dazzling
personality have resulted in a student leader of extraor-
dinary appeal and effectiveness.
_ Many of his colleagues and classmates will tell you quite
candidly that they underestimated Secretary Pat Hayden
— he doesn’t strike you as a leader to whom students would
flock tor sage advice. It turns out, though, that Hayden has
been a real powerhouse on the committee, playing the role of
Mr. Levelheaded and Logical as a counterweight to Lewis’
Mr. Glib and Outspoken. During debates, Hayden’s calm,
precisely worded questions slice to the core of issues and
reveal the sort of mastery of detail that would make him a
brutal adversary in a real-world political negotiation. His
dedication to student government is evidenced by his perfect
attendance at all public meetings for the last two years and
by his near-memorization of the Student Body Constitution
and White Book. Hayden also has patiently assumed the
duties of secretary since January, proving to be a good sport
about a job that can be a real headache.

In the ‘‘great guy at a party’ department, just about
everybody would give senior representative Michael Black a
bid. But when it comes to being an effective leader on the EC,
he leaves something to be desired. He did the University a
real service with his diligent work on the Coeducation Steer-
ing Committee, but unfortunately that identification seems to
have undermined his credibility on the EC. He became such a
‘knee-jerk apologist for coeducation and his opinions were so
predictable that even when they were valid, they weren’t
given the weight they deserved. It’s refreshing, though, to
have a successful challenge of any sort to the conventional

~-wisdom mouthed and accepted by the committee’s majority.

Senior representative Tony McCann stepped into his posi-
tion gracefully this January after what we’re told was a
distinguished stint on the Student Control Committee. He
hasn’t said a lot at meetings — a shame considering he likely
would bring a new perspective to the committee — but seems
to take a sensible, no-nonsense approach to issues.

Most of the undergraduates display a keen sense of the fact
that they are representing their classes. No such awareness
appears to afflict first-year law representative Bill Senft,
who always seems to have an opinion, but never any logic or
input from his class to back it up. He always tells us how he
feels, but never gives us any idea of why or how his class-
mates feel. Also, he spends a lot of time accusing other mem-
bers of the committee of not making sense. Maybe he knows
what he’s talking about, but we sure don’t.

Despite a difference in age, third-year law representative
Joel Johnston seems willing and eager to work with the com-
mittee’s undergraduate members. You have to admire some-
one who’s well beyond the age that most people lose interest
in campus politics, but is still willing to serve the school.
Sometimes his points seem a bit whiney, but that’s
forgiveable when you think of how patient he is with his col-
leagues on the committee.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

NEWS STAFF

BING NUE fo boos c's vam eceseUenpereeedsccecnerelsveces obMNNeLENVED Mike Allen
PN ars chances 00 ce REN Ceedarils COs boceessasagees teen Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
i RIE OE 65 cai eek eRe N Nee sete eee reedsecsecceseeeunubes Reade Williams
ME cheesy ere ccen seb cheb ede thkessccnccseeresecesertes Mike Stachura
PUES Tice Rao beh beac e ce noes reese eres cecvinedectechoncsseseue Jason Lisi
PRN NS IN iik sib hee 66 cere eesecdesesecctcneesceccnncect +0) (uetn Glee
WT CUNY ET hit ecceeccscaeccccccetcncoeecovcetbabey Matt Horridge
pe EE nee nr PRR Marshall Boswell
Assistant Sports Editer ..... Pesea Chass Loe KUAb err iedvcueevestheccas David Emrich

EDITORIAL PAGE
aR Ne 6 ik bk keke eVect ce ke lecdececcticedsssacdeae Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor.............ccceecceceeceeceseeeses+ Marie Kothman
CN a i ak C40 Vi AAPG ON U RTC C OMEN OT ERM bbOL EL OObRaeR EA Chris Bowring

BUSINESS STAFF
Belnees MARRAGOT vcs ssa cence ssevecosccccepesccceecveserpopeeserese Jeff Kimbell
ARVETUAIARTRRRROIE sailies bs Nd ec ed ove escedecdeerevonncccercebiars Hank Greenberg
RE I ibid ods ci teocicecanciebeatenees Caroline Boone, John Feyrer,
Keri Hinrichs, Jay Reville, Greg Turley,
Ce iis ierciiccccecrcei¥iewberieerseediiin Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The

i afions the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

 

“Dear Mom and Dad,

Graduate school might not be such a bad idea....””

 

 

Contra aid: right idea, wrong reasons

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

 

Dear Nelson,

Well (as our beloved and
bewildered president might say),
here we go again. Once more we find
ourselves on opposite sides of an
issue. This cannot surprise either of
us, as over the past four years we
have agreed less frequently than Pat

Buchanan has voted a_ straight.

Democratic ticket. On this particular
occasion, though, your reactionary
rhetoric has gone too far. Your col-
umn last week (on aid to the Nicara-
guan contras) was filled with more
errors than the typical Reagan news
conference, and more ridiculous
statements than a meeting of the Col-
lege Republicans.

Before I turn to excoriating your
column further, I suppose I should
say that I agree with you (sur-
prise!!) about contra aid. We should
be sending aid to the contras.

However, I think you have missed the
main reason for doing so. You cor-
rectly point out that by helping the
contras we force the Sandinistas to
spend valuable manpower and
money on combating the contra
threat. This keeps the Nicaraguan
economy destabilized, and prohibits
them from exporting their Marxist
ideology to other Central American
nations. What you failed to mention
was that by preventing the stabiliza-
tion of Nicaragua’s economy we
force the Cubans to spend more of
their scant resources shoring up the
Nicaraguans. Now, Nelson, do you
know what nation pumps billions into
the Cuban economy? Why, it is our
good friends the Soviet Union, of
course. Thus, by keeping the contras
in the field, we keep the Soviet
economy, already overextended by
their never-ending campaign in
Afghanistan, stretched very thin in-
deed.

I have said that I support the idea
of contra aid, yet you know that I was
happy to see President Reagan’s con-

tra aid bill defeated. Also, it is ob-
vious that I take strong exception to
your pro- aid column. The reason for
this seeming contradiction on my
part is my resentment at the tactics
employed by you and some other sup-
porters of the Reagan plan.

Efforts to paint all opponents of
contra aid with the brush of com-
munism are ludicrous, and represent
a dangerous throwback to the days
when Americans were afraid to
speak freely on political issues lest
some slogan-happy conservatives
label them ‘‘fellow-travelers’’ or
“com -symps.”’

There are any number of ethical
and legal reasons why the United
States should not attempt to over-
throw the Sandinistas. Those who op-
pose contra aid are not “‘sniveling
professors spewing forth leftist
dogma’ or “‘sniveling knaves and
henchmen of Daniel Ortega’ (Nel-
son: Have you been studying at the
Markham Shaw Pyle School of Ir-
ritating Insults?) They are mostly
conscientious Americans who care

deeply about the moral direction of
our country.

I find poetic justice in the Reagan
administration’s defeat last week on
the contra issue. I think there can be
no doubt that, without the inflam-
matory rhetoric of Pat Buchanan and
other right-wingers (such as your-
self, Nelson), the contra aid bill
would have passed the House. By at-
tempting to bully Congress with their
arm-twisting, the bill’s supporters
sealed its doom.

I was glad to see the bill fail, at
least for the present, as its rejection
represented a repudiation of the kind
of rhetoric employed in your column,
Nelson.

I realize that my arguments pro-
bably have not swayed you. After all,
they never have worked before. I am
also sure that your column was writ-
ten in such a manner as to elicit the
most righteously indignant reply pos-
sible. I trust that this letter fits the
bill.

Your friend,
Tom

 

LETTERS

Voting Board, ballot mishap anger student

To the editors:

Tell me this! One, if a candidate for a class of-
fice turns his name in with his petition at the re-
quired meeting, then why should he be punished
because of the mistake of the Voting Regulations
Board? It is stated in the Student Body Constitu-
tion in Article XI, Section D. Paragraph 1, “Ina
general election, all persons properly filing peti-
tions for a particular position shall be placed on
the ballot for that position.’ Two, if the can-
didate’s name is printed in The Ring-tum Phi
and the Executive Committee minutes as run-
ning for an office, then why should he not assume
that his name is on the ballot? Three, if the VRB
makes and hands out rules at a “rule-setting”’
meeting, then why do they tell me that those
rules are not the right rules (just after I used the
rules as part of my defense in front of the EC)?
What kind of justice is this? Why can’t I have the
same chance of having my name printed fairly
and properly as all the other candidates? All I
asked for and still ask for is a fair election for the
office of junior class president.

Tommy McBride
Class of 1988

Reader defends EC member

To the editors:

By the time this letter reaches print, the
members of next year’s Executive Committee
will already have been elected, but I wish to
voice my shock and anger with The Phi’s
“analysis” of the performance of junior

representative Baltzer LeJeune. The conclusion
The Phi drew does not at all follow from the
“facts” that were presented. By now I ought not
to be surprised by The Phi’s enormous non se-
quiturs, but I think this time it has plunged to
new depths in illogic.

To wit: Why does the fact that one has ‘‘ram-
bling ... monologues”’ (the term ‘‘unfathomable”’
was also used, but I tend to think that this
reflects the intelligence of the listener as much
as it does the speaker) automatically indicate
that one is ineffective? Even if Mr. LeJeune does
have a tendency to ramble and thus seem inef-
fective at public EC meetings, surely we all
know that public meetings are only one part (and
to my mind the least important part) of the
duties of the EC. Since we can never know what

happens behind the EC’s closed doors, I think it
“tragically shortsighted” to call Mr. LeJeune
“the committee’s least effective member,” just
because The Ring-tum Phi doesn’t give him an
A-plus in public speaking.

The ability to listen well and analyze the facts
before making a decision, while still keeping the
entire student body in mind, characterizes Mr.
LeJeune’s past voting record. This is far more
important in an EC representative than the glib
tongue of a rhetorician.

Because there was _ no objective news article
on the candidates discussed in The Phi’s editor-
ial, it undoubtedly had a great impact in the elec-
tions. I wish that in the future The Phi would
refrain from expressing its unbalanced and in-

opinions when they have such import, unless it
also presents an objective account of past voting
records and philosophies of the candidates. Not
only is it unfair to Mr. LeJeune that he was thus
maligned, it is unfair to all students who had to
decide whether they wished to re-elect him and,
thus, to the entire Washington and Lee student
body.
Christopher R. Carter
Class of 1987

Patterson called a hypocrite

To the editors:

I read Mr. Patterson’s recent editorial,
“Liberal knaves crush hope of freedom,” with
much amusement, and would like to address this
letter to him specifically. Mr. Patterson, you,
sir, area hypocrite. You state correctly that ‘‘the
nicknames and charges that may be thrown
around are nothing more than clever rhetorical
methods of obfuscating the real issue.” And yet
you then proceed to refer to those who disagree
with you as “‘sniveling professors spewing forth
leftist dogma,” as well as “naive and pathetic
dolts.”’ If sarcasm or irony was your goal, your
writing has been found desperately wanting. If,
on the other hand, you are serious, I believe that
your journalistic style and wit would be more ac-
cepted in the rag-like tabloids that people peruse
mindlessly in the grocery store as they wait in
the checkout line.

Mark L. Farley
Class of 1988

 

 

 

A review of the Aloha Wok
restaurant in last week’s Ring-
tum Phi contained three errors of
fact and one judgment whose
source was unclear. A_ dish
described on the menu and in the
review as ‘‘sliced barbecued
pork” actually was Cho-cho,
which is sliced beef served on a
stick. Also, wonton is fried in deep
fat, not batter. In addition, a palm
tree described as plastic actually
is a preserved palm. A comment
@UUUL Ul LK at Lue restaurant Was

program.

Last week’s issue misidentified
the position held by Nancy W.
Hanna, who is the administrative
assistant for Society and the Pro-
fessions, the University’s ethics

The Phi of March 13 misidentif-

 

ed the length of time the Board of
Trustees has been considering
changing the name of the Student
Control Committee to the Student
Conduct Committee.
change has been discussed for
several — not seven — years.
Also, SCC Chairman Townes
Pressler now says his announce-
ment of the change was pre-
mature. Pending approval of the
change by the trustees, the body
will remain the Student Control
Committee and The Phi will iden-

CORRECTIONS

based on previous visits by the
reviewers, who did not order
alcoholic beverages during the
visit described in the review.

tify it as such.

The description in last week's
issue of a new system of register-
ing for classes that is under con-
sideration by the University may
have been unclear at one point,
according to Registrar D. Scott
Dittman. Under the plan, an
member of the registrar’s staff
would enter course schedules in
the school’s computer while con-
sulting the student. Students
would not use the computers.

Such a

 

 

 

 

 
NEWS

._Medium
. rare?

Students were out in force this
* week, sunning themselves to the first
strong tanning rays of the season.
Sophomore Hollins exchange student
* Suzanne Guarch, right, gets a tan
, with her homework on the back cam-
pus. Other students, below, found the
slope behind Warner Center to be
, very conducive to catching rays.

Photos by Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

 

‘Ethics, costs to be

 

By BERT PARKS
’ Staff Reporter

 

The past president of the Southern
Medical Association warned Tuesday
that the time is fast arriving when
important ethical questions about
America’s medical profession will
have to be decided.

The public and the medical profes-
sion must learn to communicate bet-
» ter, Dr. M. Pinson Neal said, because
questions such as the right to die and
who will pay for the rising cost of
medicine for the elderly, will have to
be made by patients and their loved
ones and doctors.

Neal was the fourth and final
_ speaker in the Contact ’86 lecture

series on ‘‘Changing Values in
* America.’”’ He spoke in Room 327 of
the Commerce School to a crowd
which included Washington and Lee
’ pre-med students and senior citizens
, from the Lexington area.

“Do people have a right to die?”’
* Neal asked rhetorically. He said in
. response that many doctors feel the

Hippocratic oath taken by physicians

* prevents them from letting any pa-

’

*

>

~

s

,

big medical topics

tient die even though that patient
may be terminally ill and wants to
die.

Neal said 30 states presently have
laws allowing people to decide for
themselves whether to ‘“‘pull the
plug.”’

Neal characterized this situation
as a conflict that will have to be
resolved by the voting public and by
the medical profession. He added
that many of the final judgments will
probably be decided in the near
future by doctors who are now stu-
dents in medical school.

The people, the government and
business are all concerned about the
rising costs of medical care, Neal
said. But, he asked, how can these
costs be cut?

One solution would be to increase
competition. This would drive costs
down, Neal said, but too much com-
petition will force physicians into a
“‘fast-food”’ orientation in their care,
with patients being released ‘‘quick-
er and sicker.”

Neal said people need to realize
that quality care and research cost
money. One of the fundamental ques-
tions facing us today, Neal said, is

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

Visit to Nicaragua
points out problems

 

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

Law Professor William S. Geimer
spent two weeks in Nicaragua in
December with a delegation from a
group called Witness for Peace.

This organization was formed by a
group of American Quakers and
Presbyterians in 1983, after a young
girl who left her family’s shelter was
killed during a contra mortar attack
on her village.

The organization sends Americans
into areas contested by the contra
rebels and Sandinista forces to try to
protect the people caught in the
crossfire by their presence.

The group has sent a total of 1,500
people to Nicaragua. Geimer was a
member of the 66th delegation to go.
He spent nine days in a town close to
the Honduran border, living with a
local family during his stay. The
town is located in a mountainous
region where the contras have been
active recently.

Geimer graduated from East Ten-
nessee State University in 1962 and
served for 742 years in the Army’s
82nd Airborne Division. He rose to
the rank of major before resigning
from the Army in protest of the Viet-
nam War in 1969. Geimer joined the
Washington and Lee Law School
faculty in 1980.

Geimer hopes to visit Nicaragua
again by the end of the year. He says
he has talked to different groups,
spoken at the R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church, and met with his
congressman to express his concern
about the situation.

© Did you find open criticism of the
Sandinista government? ‘“‘I en-
countered a lot of criticism of the
government. You can talk to anyone
you want to. It is not like a police

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Dr. M. Pinson Neal speaks in the C-School Tuesday night

who — the young or the old — this
money will be spent on, and who will
pay for it.

“For just about everybody, the
most money spent on you will be
spent during your last week in the
hospital,’’ Neal said, implying that
this week would also be the last week
of life.

Another one of the questions, he
pointed out, is how much is to be
spent on the terminally ill. He asked

whether it is better to spend avail-
able money on improving life or pro-
longing it.

“‘T hope I’ve raised more questions
than I’ve answered, because that was
my purpose,’’ Neal said as he ended
his lecture. He reiterated that the
public, as well as doctors, must help
answer these questions of ethics.
Following his lecture, Neal fielded
questions from the audience.

A reception was held in the Fairfax
Lounge afterward. -

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

 

 

WILLIAM S. GEIMER

state. We weren’t assigned an inter-
preter, and no one told us where to
go. We also spoke to some members
of the opposition groups to the
government, who were very critical
of the Sandinistas. But they didn’t
support the contras.”’

¢ What do most people do for a living
in Nicaragua? ‘Most people farm or
are in trades, coffee and subsistence
farming, with a few scrawny cows
and ducks. I ate beans, rice and
bananas for 13 days — what the peo-
ple eat. Coffee is the most important
crop in the mountains.”

© What did you talk about with the
people you lived with in the town? ““‘We
talked about things like how hard it
was to get flour for bread. We talked
about school. In that country, disease
is rampant, life is tough, and the
church is very important. They want-
ed to know about Ronald Reagan —
they don’t understand him. They are

 

able to separate Americans from
Ronald Reagan and be friendly. They
made a lot of jokes at my expense
about my use of the language.
They're proud of what they've done
to help themselves.”’

¢ What sort of press exists in
Nicaragua? ‘There is an opposition
newspaper, La Prensa. The govern-
ment is trying to make itself the sole
source of information by censoring
La Prensa, which is very stupid.”’

¢ What is the position of the Catholic
Church in Nicaragua with regard to the
government? “‘The church hierarchy
is very hostile to the Sandinistas, but
the local people from the church |
met wanted things to concentrate on
the local people and not politics.”’

© How did the Sandinista soldiers you
saw treat the local people? ‘I’ve seen
American soldiers behave much
worse in the bars of Fayetteville,
N.C., where I was stationed. The
government soldiers behaved very
well. The people in the town where I
stayed were not afraid of the
soldiers.”’

¢ What were the Sandinistas armed
with? “I saw mostly small arms, AK-
47’s. I’m sure they had mortars and
machine guns back at their posts. I
also saw tanks, although they seem-
ed to be using them as artillery.”

¢ What are the Sandinistas doing to
fight the contras? “They have an
agressive strategy, with a small
presence in most villages. I would
see patrols going out quite often.
None of the towns and villages I saw
had barbed wire. They didn’t seem to
be on the defensive, nothing like the
‘strategic hamlets’ you saw in Viet-
nam.”

¢ What evidence did you see of
fighting? ‘‘We saw a bus that the con-
tras had overturned and burned, and
a place on the road where some
mines had been laid.”’

Double duty barred
by EC rule change

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

Future top officers of the Student
Bar Association will be prevented
from advocating an honor case and
chairing an honor trial in the same
year.

If it receives final approval on
Monday, that will be the effect of a
White Book revision that the Exe-
cutive Committee tentatively passed
by a vote of 10-3 Monday night,

The motion, proposed by third-year
law representative Joel Johnston re-
quires the president and vice presi-
dent of the student bar association,
who chair ‘‘open’” or student body
honor hearings, must choose between
acting as advocates for defendants
and chairing the hearings.

This year the vice-president of the
SBA, Steuart Thomas, acted as both
chairman and advocate in separate
trials.

EC Vice President Andrew Caru-

| University advertises for new fraternity affairs dean

thers led opposition to the proposal,
calling it ‘‘hypocritical’’ because the
EC currently both investigates and
renders decisions on possible honor
violations.

Caruthers added that the proposal
was “the result of personality dif-
ferences.”’

The proposed amendment states:
“At the outset of their term in office,
both the president and the vice presi-
dent must each publicly declare
either that: 1) they will refrain as ac-
ting as advocates in honor proceed-
ings and, thus, retain the right to act
as Chair of a Student Body Hearing,
or 2) they intend to be available as
advocates in honor proceedings and,
thus, relinquish the right to act as
Chair of a Student Body Hearing.”

In other business the EC decided
against a proposal to add a provision
to the White Book concerning the har-
assment of participants in honor
trials. The EC said the Student Con:
duct Committee could take care of
such problems if they arose.

 

Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee has placed advertisements in the
Chronicle of Higher Education seeking a new dean for
fraternity affairs to replace Dan N. Murphy, who cur-
rently holds that position. Murphy will join the staff of
the admissions office full-time during the summer.

Murphy, a 1973 W&L graduate, has held the job since
the 1977-78 academic year, he said. Since that time he
has divided his duties between the dean’s job and the
admissions office.

Two hearings rescheduled

The preliminary hearing for nine Washington and Lee
students arrested Jan. 12 on marijuana possession
charges has been rescheduled for April 22 at 2 p.m. in
Lexington General District Court. The proceeding was
to have been held last week.

Also rescheduled was the preliminary hearing for
freshman Burgess A. ‘‘Tommy” Thomasson on a rape
charge. Thomasson was to have been in court yester-
day, but instead will go April 23 at 10:30 a.m. He was ar-
rested Dec. 8 following an incident involving an 18-year-
old woman who was then a student at Hollins College.

Fruit flung in frat fracas

Zeta Beta Tau fraternity president Todd Harvey
reported that last Sunday, several Pi Kappa Phi frater
nity members fired oranges and grapefruits toward

the ZBT house with a “‘funnelator.’’ The police report
stated one window in the ZBT house and two windows in
the Kappa Alpha house were broken. Police estimated
each window’s value at $10.

eJunior Chris Lederer reported his car's license plate
was stolen sometime late Saturday night while the car
was parked in the lot next to Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
house. The police have no witnesses or suspects in the
case.

eFreshman M. Warren Butler reported his gold
Bulova watch was taken from his unlocked dormitory
room sometime between March 13 and 16. The police
have no witnesses or suspects in the case.

—Matt Horridge

Senior awarded Fulbright grant

Senior Lawrence S. Anker of East Windsor, N.J., has
received a Fulbright grant to study for a year in West
Germany. Anker’s grant includes a two-month lan-
guage course at the Goethe Institute, and a year’s study
in analytical chemistry at the Universitaet Wuerzburg .

A triple major in chemistry, math and physics, Anker
was elected to Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman honor

society, and is the recipient of the Taylor Scholarship in
mathematics, the undergraduate award in analytical
chemistry, and the James Lewis Howe chemistry

award. He has been on the dean’s list every term at
Washington and Lee
Anker was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, a na-

tional honorary fraternity, this year, and is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa. He was named to the 1986 Academic
All-America team and served as captain of the W&L
wrestling team.

Alcohol committee in motion

Members of the Washington and Lee Alcohol Policy
Committee met last week with a representative from
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.

Chairman Paul Youngman said his committee want-
ed information on ABC rules to help formulate the
University policy for drinking on campus next year.

The committee will meet again this spring to present
a plan to the faculty, which has to approve any such
plan before it can be put into effect.

—Simon Perez

Caps for nothing, gowns for free

Seniors will not have to purchase their caps and
gowns for commencement exercises this year. Instead
the W&L Bookstore will provide the garments free of
charge.

Helena W. Roller, bookstore manager, said a $30
deposit will be required before a student is issued his
cap and gown. The items may be picked up between
May 26 and graduation day, June 5. Roller stressed that
the deposit must be in cash. The deposit is refundable

only on June 5, Roller added, although seniors will still
be responsible for returning the cap and gown. Deposits
will be refunded only until 4 p.m. that day,

Graduation announcements will be for sale in the
bookstore starting April 1. Roller said Debbie Conner in
the bookstore will be able to provide details to seniors
interested in the announcements.

IFC elects new officers

Seven people were elected to Interfraternity Council
offices for next year at the IFC’s Tuesday night
meeting.

The results were: secretary, Walker McKay, a Pi
Kappa Alpha junior; treasurer, Will Esham, a Sigma
Chi junior; senior justice, Chris Lynch, a Beta Theta Pi
junior; two junior justices, George Early of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon and Jay Markley of Kappa Alpha, both
sophomores; Rush chairman, Jon Missert, a Chi Psi
sophomore; and public relations, Hugh Steuart, a Delta
Tau Delta sophomore.

In other IFC business, the council discussed “getting
a uniform time during Alumni Weekend for fraternities
to have open houses in order to improve relations with
alumni,” according to IFC President Jaimie Hayne.

It is hoped that a uniform, University-recognized
time for all fraternities would keep the fraternity open
houses from conflicting with other functions

—Sean Bugg

 

 

 
=

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

Graffiti

Library elevator doors covered
with oil to reduce vandalism

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

In what appears to be a successful effort at combat-
ting graffiti in the University Library, custodians last
week coated the insides of the library elevator doors
with oil

“The reason it’s on there is to prevent ball-point pen
or pencil mark from writing on the door,’’ said Jesse
Carter, foreman of library custodians. He added that
most writing instruments will slide on the oil and not
write on the doors.

Carter said he took this action to protect the women in
the student body and faculty from seeing the graffiti,
which he said was more evident than in anytime in his
seven years at the library. He said he belives that the
men in the student body were the cause of the graffiti.

“It looks so bad for the girls here,”’ Carter said. ‘I
don’t think it’s really becoming for a gentleman.”’

He said he heard several complaints about the graffiti
from students and faculty and compliments in response
to the doors’ cleaning.

Carter said he rubbed the oil on the doors Monday of
last week and has seen little graffiti since.

University Librarian Barbara Brown said she has
received complaints about the writing on the doors and
said it has appeared in “great quantities” lately.

‘I know a lot of it is comments on individuals that
have been involved in honor cases,” she said. “I don’t
think it’s limited to that, necessarily.”

Fire on the mountain

A forest fire burns trees on a mountain near Buena
Vista this week. The crew fighting the fire numbered up
to 140 for the first two days of the fire, Monday and Tues-
day. A fire service information officer said he expected

“IT know what kind of steam is being let off through
these means,”’ Brown said, ‘‘but I still don’t like to see it
there.”

“Sometimes it is fairly clever,’’ Brown conceded.

Brown added that she still considers the graffiti van-
dalism. If a person is caught defacing the elevator
doors, he will be forced to pay for the repair of the
damage and be reported to the Student Control Commit-
tee, she said.

Past efforts to combat the elevator door graffiti have
been cleaning and even repainting the doors, Brown
said.

“I think that the most successful would be for the
students not to write on the doors,”’ she said.

“It’s hard not to notice it,’’ she said. ‘It seems like
there are other ways for people to express their views
about things other than defacing University property.”

Reference librarian Peggy W. Hays said the oil has
stopped the graffiti on the doors.

“It makes it much more difficult to write on,’’ she
said. ‘‘It’s too bad you have to resort to that to cut down
on graffiti.”

Carter said someone with a sharp object scratched an
obscene message on one door, despite the oil.

He said that if the grafitti continues, he is at a loss for
a new solution. A possible remedy, he said, would be
covering the doors with large sheets of cardboard that
could be removed if they are torn or filled with writing.

Carter said there could be problems if people get the
oil on their hands or clothes. Soap and water can be us-
ed to clean hands, but clothes will probably have to be
taken to a dry cleaners, he said.

  
 

Fe
ms " r,

AL

By Cotton Puryear

the crew to be down to about 16 today as part of the ‘‘mop-
up” operation. The Virginia Division of Forestry report-
ed 33 fires Wednesday on Virginia-owned woodland. The
Buena Vista fire burned about 200 acres.

Journalists to assemble, discuss
media issues in Ethics Institute

 

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

 

Tonight through Saturday, Washington and Lee is
hosting its 12th annual Journalism Ethics Institute, a
seminar that will give journalism students the opportuni-
ty to meet professional journalists and talk with them
about current issues before the media.

Everette E. Dennis, executive director of the Gannett
Center for Media Studies at New York’s Columbia Uni-
versity, will give the keynote lecture on ‘‘The Politics of
Media Credibility’ tonight at 8 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium in the University Library.

Journalism Professor Ronald H. MacDonald, assistant
director of the Institute, said the lecture would be the
highlight of the weekend.

Throughout the weekend, students and journalists will
discuss topics such as invasion of privacy, surreptitious
recordings and the role of press ombudsmen. Journalists
participating in the program are from major newspapers

and broadcast stations in Roanoke; Richmond: Philadel-
phia; Salt Lake City; Charlotte, N.C.; Nashville, Tenn.:
and Augusta, Ga.

The Institute is part of W&L’s program in applied
ethics, ‘‘Society and the Professions,’ directed by
Religion Professor Louis W. Hodges. The students who
will be taking part in the Institute are taking the jour-
nalism ethics course, Interdepartmental 344.

Other classes in the program include applied ethics
courses in law, medicine and business, each of which has
an annual institute.

Dennis’ speech tonight is the only part of this week-
end’s Institute open to the public. Dennis is the author,
co-author, or editor of 11 books, including ‘“‘The Media
Society,’’ ‘Justice Hugo Black and the First Amend-
ment,”’ and ‘‘Understanding Mass Communication.”’

Dennis received his bachelor’s degree from the Univer-
sity of Oregon, his master’s from Syracuse University,
and his doctorate in mass communication from the Uni-
versity of Minnesota. He has served as dean of the jour-
nalism school at the University of Oregon.

Lani SEABULL
TCAMP SEAPARER

CAMP COUNSELING — for those who love children. Sea
Gull and Seafarer are character and health development

camps on the coast of North Carolina serving children ages
7-16. Recruiting staff for sailing, motorboating, aquatics,
golf, tennis, riflery, archery, canoeing, basketball, lacrosse,
soccer, nature studies, arts and crafts, nursing, office, food
services and horseback riding (Seafarer only). Qualifica-
tions: interest in children, ability to instruct one phase of the
camps’ programs and excellent references. For further in-
formation write to Don Check, Director, Camp Sea Gull
(Boys) or to Judy Bright, Director, Camp Seafarer (Girls),
P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

 

a

Koto photo

      

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Kyoko Okamoto, a founder of the Washington Toho Koto Society, presents
part of her concert of traditional Japanese music last)week in Lee Chapel.
Okamoto’s visit was sponsored by the East Asian Studies Program.

Judge finds evidence
to send BB gun case

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

A case involving Washington and
Lee student J.P. Baehr will go to a
grand jury for a possible indictment,
District Judge Joseph E. Hess decid-
ed ina preliminary hearing Tuesday.

Baehr, a sophomore from Spartan-
burg, S.C., was charged with the
unlawful wounding: of John Ree, a
junior from Berlin, Md.,.after Roe
suffered an eye injury during a
snowball fight between members of
the Phi Kappa Psi and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternities on Feb. 27.

Assistant Commonwealth’s At-
torney Richard J. Cabaniss called
several Phi Psi members to the stand
Tuesday, including Roe.

Senior Bill Bloom and Phi Psi
president Robert Calabretta both
testified they had been hit that night
by what they thought were BBs.
Calabretta said he went into the SAE
house to try to find who shot Roe and
saw ‘‘a pile of copper BBs outside the
door’ of the room from which he

Terminal case

4 for possible indictment

thought the shots came.

Roe said he was struck in the eye
when he turned to see who had called
out his name. Roe indicated the peri-
pheral vision in his right eye was im-
paired by the injury.

Eric L. Sisler, Baehr’s attorney,
argued there was insufficient evi--
dence to suggest Roe was struck by a
BB fired by Baehr or if Roe was, in

fact, struck by a BB at all. Sisler
pointed out that Roe:was standing in

a row of trees between the two frater-
nity houses and may have been hit by
a twig or snowball.

Cabaniss said there was irrefut-
able evidence that Baehr had been
firing a BB gun that night, including
Baehr’s admission he had fired a BB
pistol several times, and should be
held accountable for his actions.
Cabaniss pointed out that Baehr was
charged with unlawful wounding and
not malicious wounding because the
Commonwealth felt Baehr did not
purposefully shoot Roe but did, in
fact, hit him.

The next grand jury is scheduled
for May.

Students
go to ODK

convention

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

 

Three students representing
Washington and Lee at the 34th bien-
nial Omicron Delta Kappa national
convention at Louisiana State Uni-
versity two weeks ago came back to
Lexington with a wider understand-
ing of the functions of the leadership
fraternity.

Seniors David Lewis and Nelson
Patterson and junior Joe Krastel
were W&L’s delegates to the March
13-15 convention held in Baton Rouge,
La., which was attended by about 350
people representing approxi:nately
125 schools.

Meetings at the convention gave
the students the opportunity to meet
ODK members from across the coun-
try and to bring new ideas back to the
ODK circle at W&L.

Krastel said he would like to see
ODK involved in more activities at
W&L, but conceded that will be dif-
ficult since there will be only six
members on campus until next Jan-
uary’s initiation.

A highlight of the convention was a
seafood extravaganza the opening
night of the meeting that included
crawfish and shrimp cooked cajun-
style.

ODK is divided into 12 provinces
nationwide, and W&L’s circle
— Alpha Circle — is in the second
province, which includes 23 circles at
schools in Virginia, West Virginia
and North Carolina.

Lewis, who is president of the ODK
circle at W&L, where the organiza-
tion was founded in 1914, attended the
convention in the capacity of student
director of the second ODK province.

Student and faculty directors and
executive officers served on ODK’s
general council at the convention,
which met to discuss the budget and
to elect a new national president,
Ronald Roskins, president of the Uni-
versity of Nebraska school system.

Student directors also accompany
faculty directors on inspection tours
to various circles, and are responsi-
ble for starting new circles. Two new
circles have been started in the local
province during Lewis’ term: one at
Virginia Commonwealth University
and one at Bridgewater College.

On the last day of the conference,
Lewis and Patterson spoke before the
convention, summarizing their phone
conversation with W&L Emeritus
Politics Professor Rupert N. Latture,
the last surviving founder of ODK.

W&L’s representatives said the
convention was successful and en-
joyable. Krastel said he realized the
enormous nationwide prestige assoc-
iated with ODK, which he said had
not occurred to him until he was
‘‘around the people behind the scenes
who make it what it is.”

 

Junior Keith Pillow tries out one of IBM’s personal
computers at a fair co-sponsored by IBM and the Wash-
ington and Lee computer center. The purpose of the fair,

 

organized by microcomputer coordinator, Sue Ruley, ,

was to introduce students to IBM’s line of personal com- ;
puters and discount prices for W&L students and faculty. °

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Would Like To Wish
Everyone A Happy
Easter

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

Bring in the

springtime

with flowers!

165 S. Main

 

 

 

‘ ‘

é .
e ‘
« ’
A
« ] ‘
4 | ’
e | +
|
t | ‘
€ '
¢ ‘
t ,
€ '
« ’
4 '
‘ ’
€ ,
t +
‘ ‘
t ‘
t +
‘ '
4
nae

 
 

 

Night, weekend phone rates to rise

 

By DEBORAH HATTEs
Staff Reporter

 

Long-distance phone rates w
ing on in-state calls dy
weekends.

_ American Telephone and Telegraph is reducing
its night/weekend and evening discounts on Vir-
ginia in-state long-distance calls, effective April 8.

The current 40 percent discount for calls made
between 5 and 11 p.m. will drop to 20 percent, ac-
cording to Bill Jones, public relations administra-

 

 

 

JOHN M. GUNN JR.

 

Election

: ill increase this spr-
ring evening hours and on

 

0 Continued from Page 1

men ballots. Holifield, who originally
missed making the run-off by one
vote, said that at about 3 p.m., two
people who were planning to vote for
him stopped at the poll outside of the
Commerce School, which was then
out of ballots for about 15 minutes.
They went on to a 3 p.m. class, and
when their classes ended 4 p.m., the
polls were closed.

“I think the VRB made a very
judicious decision,” Lewis said

Of the eight freshman women run-
ning for office, only University Coun-
cil candidates Melissa Thrasher and
Carol Couch made it to the run-offs.

Of the eight original UC candidates
from the three classes, all made it to
the run-offs, as did six write-in can-
didates.

The senior EC run-off was between
Andrew Caruthers, Marshall
Eubank, Baltzer LeJeune and Rob
Merritt.

The results of the run-offs will be
posted on the door of the EC office in
the Student Center this evening.

Dean

O Continued from Page |

noted.

Peppers said the difference in size
between W&L, with 1,750 students,
and Creighton, with a student body
three times that size, will not make
the transition difficult because he
likes small schools.

Creighton, a 6,000-student Roman
Catholic university, has schools of
law, medicine, dentistry, nursing,
business, and arts and sciences. Pep-
pers compared it to Georgetown Uni-
versity, which he described as also
Catholic and small.

“I’m looking forward to the chal-
lenge,’’ he said.

 

 

tor at Centel in Charlottesville. The 60 percent
night/weekend discount, which applies to calls
made after 11 p.m. weekdays, all-day Saturday,
and until 5 p.m. on Sunday, will decrease to 40 per-

cent.

At the same time, though, the daytime (7 a.m. -5
p.m.) rates for in-state long distance calls will be
reduced by 7 percent. This is in addition to the
previous rate drop of 15 percent on Jan. 1, 1984,
when the AT&T monopoly was broken up by a fed-

eral court order, according to Marty Szostek,
AT&T spokesman for Washington, D.C.
The daytime rate decrease will apply to calls

that travel more than 23 miles, but Jones said the

rates for calls less than 23 miles will increase.
Szostek, who said that AT&T has “‘been losing

money in Virginia’ and is ‘just breaking even

now,”’ explained that AT&T has to pay local tele-

phone companies a fixed rate that does not vary
with the time of day, even though customers pay
reduced rates at low-demand times.

Szostek added that the ‘‘new adjustments” in
rates will “more accurately reflect the true cost of
providing that service.”’

Szostek said AT&T’s in-state long-distance rates
are among the lowest in Virginia.

Gunn to speak on trade imbalance

 

Staff Report

 

The effects of the burgeoning
deficit in the United States balance of
payments will be assessed by
Associate Economics Professor John
M. Gunn Jr. on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in
room 327 of the Commerce School.

“The United States, in just three
years’ time, of which we are now
nearing the end, has gone from being
the largest international creditor in
the world to being the largest inter-
national debtor in the world,’ Gunn
said yesterday. “We're not quite
there yet, but we will be in a few
weeks.”’

Gunn said the one-hour lecture,

In search of...

A replacement for Politics
Professor William Buchanan is
expected to be named shortly.

Politics Professor Delos D.
Hughes, chair of the department
and head of the search committee,
said the search is ‘‘early in the
final stage.”’ He said the commit-
tee is not highly structured and
will reach a consensus decision.

Buchanan is entering the Uni-
versity’s new Phased Retirement
Program, which calls for him to
carry half a class load next year
and -eventually retire. The full-
time position the Hughes commit-
tee is seeking to fill thus will pro-
vide the department with some
extra manpower.

 

 

 

 

 

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

   

 

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails

Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10

Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

$.A.B. Fancy Dress
Memorabilia Sale

T-Shirts ¢ Cups ¢ Posters

Tuesday, April 1
2:00 - 5:00

Student Center
Room 109

 

after which he will stay to take ques-
tions, will be ‘fairly technical’’ but
may still be ui interest to non-econo-
mics students.

That’s because the balance of
payments — a summary statistic of
United States transactions with other
countries — affects currency ex-
change rates, which in turn influence
the price of imported consumer
goods.

As the yen has risen against the
dollar in the last two months, for ex-
ample, Gunn said there has been a
“perceptible” increase in the price of
Japanese automobiles and ap-
pliances. Also, for people going
abroad, Gunn said the value of the
dollar ‘‘very much affects” the price

of their trip.

In announcing the talk, Economics
Professor Bruce H. Herrick, the
department chair, said Gunn’s an-
nual lecture ‘“‘has grown in populari-
ty among students owing to the ex-
pertise of the lecturer and the cen-
trality of his topic’’ to introductory
economics courses.

The announcement said the speech
title, “The Surplus in the US.
Balance of Payments,” was borrow-
ed from monetarist economist Milton
Friedman.

Gunn, who said he’s given the lec-
ture for about the last 10 years, said
he thinks the only Economics 102
class not required to attend is his
own.

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Andrew Caruthers, a candidate for EC representative, casts his ballot Monday

 

Drugs

0 Continued from Page 1

 

he said, the student was found guilty
by the SCC of possession with the in-
tent to distribute — what Jarrard
called a crime against the communi-
ty; in the other case, a possession
conviction, the student harmed only
himself. The difference in penalties
shows that the first student deserves
punishment while the other needs
help, Jarrard said.

Although the impetus for Sunday’s
meeting was concern over campus
drug use, Jarrard said the groups
discussed issues which went beyond
that topic, such as the role of the
University in student discipline.

Before this year there was a cer-
tain amount of frustration within the
SCC, Jarrard said, because members
felt they had no important powers;
all the “‘big”’ cases they handled were
ultimately decided by the Student Af-
fairs Committee. They were ques-
tioning the role of the SCC, Jarrard
said.

The solution to the problem was to
make a distinction between major
and minor conduct offenses, which
were instituted this year. The Girard
case was the first major offense the
SCC considered, Jarrard said, and
the fact that it was handled as a
crime against the community made
the drug committee members ‘‘jubi-
lant.”

“It suggested that the system was
working,” he said.

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

Open ‘til midnite

 

Cigarettes
Natty BOcong necks

     
   
     

   

 

Fancy Dress
Party Pix
Are In!

Proofs will be in front of the
G.H.Q. Friday, March 28 thru
Friday, April 4.

 

4:00

 

  

9:00 -

 

 

- Cases Negres,”’

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986, Page 5

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

“Hands Across Rockbridge,’’ a
county-wide event to raise money
for the needy.in Rockbridge Coun-
ty, is planned for May 4. Organi-
zers hope to recruit enough volun-
teers to form a hyman chain from
Lexington to Buena Vista. For fur-
ther information, contact Martha
Doss at the Visitor Center of Lex-
ington on Washington Street or
call 463-3777.

University Library hours dur-
ing break will be:

Friday, April 11: Close at 6 p.m.

Saturday and Sunday, April 12
and 13: Closed.

Monday through Friday, April
14-18: Open 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

Saturday and Sunday, April 19
and 20: Closed.

Monday, April 21: Open at 8
a.m. and resume 24-hour
schedule.

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of ‘Sugar Cane Al-
ley” (Martinique, 1983), directed
by Euzhan Palcy.

Showings will be at 8 p.m.
tomorrow and Saturday in Class-
room ‘‘A’’ in Lewis Hall. There is
no charge for admission. The film
is in French, with English sub-
titles.

A stunning debut film directed
by a 28-year-old woman from
Martinique, Euzhan Palcy, ‘‘Su-
gar Cane Alley’”’ is a powerful, yet
endearing, look at life among
sugar-plantation workers in color-
ful Martinique under French col-
onial rule in the 1930s. The film
focuses on one young boy who,
with his grandmother’s guidance,
attempts to use his educational
opportunities to rise above his
shanty-town existence.

Based on Joseph Zobel’s auto-
biographical novel, “La Rue
“Sugar Cane
Alley” has been highly acclaimed
by critics and audiences around
the world. The film won the
French Cesar award for Best
First Film and the Silver Lion
Award at the Venice Film
Festival.

The W&L Film Society invites
you to attend one of the screenings
of this truly wonderful film, and
we hopé you will pass along our in-
vitation to your students and
friends.

“Fahrenheit 451,” a 1966 film
directed by Francois Truffaut and
adapted from Ray Bradbury’s
novel of the same name, will be
shown in Room 327 of the Com-

merce School next Wednesday
and Thursday at 7 p.m. The public
is invited and admission is free to
the term's last installment in-the
Politics FilmFest. The movie,
which stars Oskar Werner, Julie
Christie and Cyril Cusack, sketch-
es everyday ‘‘life’’ in a future
Orwellian superstate to broach
the limits of politics as we know
them, asking: What are the car-
dinal grounds for limited versus
unlimited politicization of all
social life?

A watch has been found behind
Tucker Hall. If you can identify it,
call 463-9667.

A Washington and Lee alumnus
will lecture on the humanitarian
law of war Monday at 4:15 p.m. in
Classroom E in Lewis Hall.

The Virginia district of the
Virginia-D.C.-Maryland chapter
of the American Public Works
Association (APWA) sponsors
three scholarship grants per
academic year; two $500 grants
for undergraduate students and
one $300 grant for part-time or
full-time graduate students. Ap-
plications and further information
are available in the Financial Aid
office in Washington Hall.

The United States Information
Agency (USIA) and the Institute
of International Education (IIE)
announces that the official open-
ing of the 1987-88 competition for
grants for graduate study or
research abroad in academic
fields and for professional train-
ing in the creative and performing
arts is scheduled for May 1. It is
expected that approximately 700
awards to over 70 countries will be
available for the 1987-88 academic
year.

Applicants must be U.S. citizens
at the time of application, who will
generally hold a_ bachelor’s
degree or its equivalent before the

‘ beginning date of the grant and, in

most cases, will be proficient in
the language of the host country.

Application forms and further
information for students currently
enrolled at W&L may be obtained
from the Fulbright Program Ad-
viser, Professor John M. Evans,
in Payne Hall (32-C).

Examination envelopes and in-
struction forms for winter term
exams are available in the
Registrar’s Office. The exam en-
velopes are to be turned in to pro-
fessors at the first class meeting
on or after Monday. Exams begin
Saturday, April 5, and end Friday,
April 11.

 

 

eee uiie

lee

   

'

4

 
     
  
   
    

Redken

Mon.-Fri.

   
 

a—" Sa
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

Walk in or phone for appointment

| ERE EE ERA > RNR! Ca AD (ASR) IR > RNR ENA (aD

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Kall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North
ER RE OER RR OSI CSR ARR: NR: et «RE SE

     

Nexus

463-3975

eee

NOTICE

Having a party? Why nota car bash?
Great fun and enjoyment for everyone

See Charlie or Ed at Nelson Street Gulf

463-3922
348-5748

Private

(2 blocks from campus)
Stress management depression
relationships anxiety
work overload loneliness

Call for information

Lorae L. McDonald, L.C.S.W.

463-4927 or
348-5020

BE ONE DINK AWE HAKONE HOEK, AO NOCHE NEC DONEC

 

Counseling

i
4
sal
 

 

 

 

SPORTS

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

On their way to L.A.?

Netmen have big weekend;
key match set for Friday

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team continued on a busy
schedule this past week, going up
against some powerful teams and ris-
ing to the occasion more often than
not with play that showed that its No.
6 pre-season ranking is well-deserved
and that plane reservations for Los
Angeles for the national champion-
ships might be in order.

The Generals traveled to Swarth-
more over the weekend to compete
with both the host Little Quakers and
California tennis power Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps. With Swarthmore
ranked No. 1 and Claremont No. 7,
W&L head coach Gary Franke had
commented that the weekend would
be crucial in terms of a bid to na-
tionals.

W&L met the challenge by defeat-
ing Claremont, 8-1, and giving Swar-
thmore all it could handle, before los-
ing 6-3.

The Generals, who were defeated
by Claremont at last year’s national
championships, won all six of the
singles matches. The only loss came
at No. 1 doubles, where the team of
David McLeod and Jack Messerly
was downed, 6-7, 7-6, 6-2.

Having soundly defeated Clare-
mont on Saturday, the Generals went
to battle Division III’s No. 1 team ina
match where six individual matches
went to the ultimate set.

Singles wins for W&L came from
Bebby Matthews at the No. 3 spot,
6-8, 6-3, and Messerly at the No. 5
spot, 7-5, 4-6, 6-3. The third team point
came from the No. 2 doubles team of
Matthews and Roby Mize.

Senior captain Scott Aaams cori
mented on the team’s emotional level
after the weekend: “It was a big
emotional high. Swarthmore was a
great match. Swarthmore knows that

thev wer , ot
the coaches of the two teams told us
that we were a team to be contended
with. In general, everyone came off
the weekend very pleased.”

Monday, the Generals continued
playing well, dominating Lehigh, 7-2.
The Generals won all six of their
singles matches. The only losses for
W&L came at first and third doubles.

On Tuesday, the Generals met lit-
tle resistance from Division III Old
Dominion Athletic Conference foe
Lynchburg, winning the match, 9-0.

Yesterday’s match against Divi-
sion I Evansville (Ind.) was a
familiar story for the Generals as
they lost another tight match to Divi-
sion I team. The Generals fell behind
3-2 after the first five singles matches
were completed. Adams, W&L’s No.
6 man, remained on the court for the
day’s longest match, falling in a
third-set tiebreaker. Evansville went
on to win the match, 5-4.

W&L got wins from Mize and
Messerly in singles and from Mize-
Matthews and Adams-Chris Wiman
in doubles.

Franke commented on the match:
“It was a disappointing loss for us.
We didn’t pull it out in a couple of
matches where I thought we could
have. That was really a heartbreak-
ing loss for Scott Adams.”’

Tomorrow, the focus returns to get-
ting that bid to the nationals when the
Generals face Washington College in
a match that greatly will effect the
rankings. The importance of the

 

ieee

isms shins

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

David McLeod returns a backhand during Evansville match

match is made clear by the
Showmen’s recent victories over
Emory, a squad that has defeated
both Claremont and Redlands, last
year’s third-place finisher at na-
tionals.

“Right now, we are just trying to
get a good ranking,”’ Franke said. He
said a supportive crowd would be im-
portant to the team.

Friday’s match is set to begin at 3
p.m.

Lax splits fourth quarters, now at 3-2

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

The fourth quarter decided
everything this week for the
Washington and Lee lacrosse team,
once against the Generals and once
in favor of the Generals.

W&L split games — and fourth
quarters — with Virginia and Notre
Dame, getting outscored 8-0 in the
final period against the Cavaliers
and shutting out a feisty Fighting
Irish bunch in the fourth quarter, 4-0.

Yesterday, the fourth quarter
surge and the outstanding play of
W&L netminder John Church proved
the difference in the Notre Dame
game. Church stopped 18 Irish shots,
“key, key saves,”’ according to W&L
head coach Dennis Daly.

“If John Church wasn’t ready to
play, we lose,”’ Daly stated.

Going into the game, Notre Dame
was an almost unknown quantity,
having defeated Virginia Military In-
stitute in its first game of the year.
By the end of the third quarter, they
had almost stolen the show. Almost.

The Irish, showing that spirit fam-
ed in song and legend, rallied from an
8-5 deficit and tied the game at 9 with
two goals in the final 1:03 of the third
quarter.

But the fourth quarter was all
W&L.

‘We proved we had the poise to win
the fourth quarter,’’ Daly said, refer-
ring to a similar situation the
Generals faced two years ago against
Denison when they could not stave off
the upset.

The Generals did not see their first
lead of the game until just 3:29 was
left in the first half. The W&L lead at
the half was 6-4.

The Irish fell silent after tying
things up at the end of the third
quarter, and after, 1:30 of the fourth,
W&L co-captain Bill Holmes scored
his third of four goals to give the
Generals the lead for good.

As for Saturday’s contest with the
Wahoos, although it may be a little
difficult, give this a try: Ignore the
first and fourth quarters of W&L’s

 

 

se a

gm

 

ho "a rT =
Ae) Perey:

ss TS ie . ‘
S  .s "et (aw
Tee aw
2 eo.

 

 

TS be

aa ene

Se Wa Sa he

 

 

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L goalie John Church makes a save of a Roddy Marino shot in U.Va. game

16-6 defeat at the hands of U.Va. If
you do that, you'll see an excellent
lacrosse game with an excellent out-
come, rather than a_ excellent
lacrosse game with a dissappointing
outcome.

U.Va. Coach Jim Adams said of the
Generals, “They actually stayed
with us for three quarters.”

He was right. W&L did stay close
for three quarters. Unfortunately for
the Generals, the game lasts four
quarters. It was in the fourth quarter
that the Wahoos began to run away
from the Generals. They scored eight
unanswered goals, including two in
six seconds, to make the final score
16-6 in their favor.

Adams again complimented his op-
ponents’ efforts. ‘They fought like
the devil,” he said.

So, what exactly happened to the
Generals in that fourth quarter?

Daly had this to say on the fourth

GRAND OPENING

Stop by today and register for your student discount
card which entitles you to 10% off any service.

Hair Wates

18 Va. locations to serve you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-1605

 

quarter breakdown, “I think what
happened was that we made one or
two mental mistakes that allowed
them to get a goal.

“They happened to get a fast-break
goal off of our faceoff, which was the
first time they got that all game
long,’’ he added.

Daly continued, ‘So now, rather
than feeling good, that we’re just two
goals down and maybe we're in con-
trol of the momentum, we see the
game leaving us at 10-6 and we
decide that we’ve got to try to get the
goals back,”’ Daly continued.

“Rather than just trying to keep
the game close, we went for the win,”
said Daly. ‘‘By going for the win, it

{U.Va.’s tally] built up to 13 and 14,

we missed some opportunities, but

that happens.”

While Daly termed the U.Va. game
more of a ‘‘dream”’ situation, he in-
dicated that Saturday’s contest with
Towson State is much more crucial to

the Generals’ season.

“T think the tournament comes in
at Towson,” he said. The Tigers
come into Wilson Field ranked 11th
and with 10 teams receiving bids to
the national tournament, a win here
would serve W&L well.

Daly said the Generals will not be
able to get away with the mistakes
they made against Notre Dame, a
game Daly called somewhat of a
“disappointment.”

“We try to play better in each
game than we have, and obviously,
we didn’t do that [against Notre
Dame],”’ he said.

Towson State and W&L have
played close games the last two
years and Daly said he expects
another close one this year.

‘We have to be sharp, ”’ he said.

Game time is 2 p.m. at Wilson
Field. Doug Chase and Ken Jacoby
will broadcast the game on WVLI (96
FM).

 

 

______

Lettuce
all hop down to

FANTASIES
for Easter.

baskets, stuffed animals,
jewelry, basket stuffers
For those you carrot all about.

One W. Washington Street

 

 

anol

 
   

 

i

S

ao

imilar, not

Consider Dale Brown, head
coach at Louisiana State, the how d-
they-do-that team of this years

 

TIME

 

“
* «| J NCAA hoops tourney. Bit of a Jekyll-
v<a Ol Tr; *** and-Hyde type of situation, don’t you
Pe think?
» Mik Months ago, before Dallas was
y oi on thought of as something more than a

¥Y city and the home of the Ewings,

Brown was doing his Savior of the
NCAA bit, ranting and raving about how college athletes were getting
some sort of raw deal and that we ought not look so negatively on the
young men who play the game of college basketball for the love of it,
as well as the free cars. Right annoying, that.

Heck, Brown even got himself on the cover of the nation’s sports
magazine in December and we all got to find out what sort of psycho he
was. You see, Brown’s philosophy is, ‘‘Do it my way, and if there are
any questions, I have all the answers.” =

Brown may have an abrasive manner, but he and his group of misf it
toys that try to play basketball are doing one thing right now that will
let you forget the fact that he thinks scholarship athletes ought to
receive a stipend for the hard work and good they do their respective
universities. He’s winning. And he’s winning where he and his team
have no business playing.

Funny thing is, Dale Brown and LSU are the underdogs now. You
know what that means. Ordinary people are going to start rooting for
the Bayou Bengals.

Now, Brown hasn’t been living the best of times all season long.
Here’s a basketball program that, if it were a city, it would make
Beirut look like Paris. We’re talking academic ineligibility (and that’s
always nice to hear), problems with would-be recruit Tito Horford
(the man without a team snubbed Brown first), an NCAA investigation
(which made me think of back stabbing, seeing as Brown’s self-
professed bedside bible is The NCAA Manual) and, on top of that, a
mid-season chicken pox epidemic that besieged Brown’s troops.

Which all makes us like him even more. But aside from the hurdles
LSU and Brown have overcome, they’ve been playing great basket-
ball. Like another team, I remember, that had no business advancing
to the Final Four a year ago, let alone winning the whole deal. LSU
needed two overtimes to get by Purdue in the first round. And that was
in Baton Rouge. But then the Tigers went out of their collective minds
and beat the third, second and first seeds in the Southeast Regional to
place them in Dallas for Easter. Again, sounds a little bit like last
year’s amazing Wildcats. But that stuff happens only once in a
lifetime.

Louisville by 14. Duke to winit all...

....Back home on the Colonnade, many compliments were turned my
way on the excellent turnout in Charlottesville. You, as the Generals,
are to be congratulated on the effort...Now, here is your next assign-

ment: This weekend is sort of a ‘‘go for the championship bid’’
weekend. Both Friday’s tennis match and Saturday’s lacrosse game
are crucial in that respect. Friday afternoon, make it a point to be
there en masse for the Generals’ men’s tennis match against
Washington College. After the netmen’s super weekend (an 8-1
shellacking of No. 7 Claremont and a tough-as-nails 6-3 loss to No.-1-in-
the-nation Swarthmore), a win on Friday over a ranked Washington
squad, of which you can be a part, would book these gentlemen on a
flight to southern California come the second week in May. Same deal
with lax and Towson, (see poll below for details). Again: Be
there...Tip of the cap to the W&L aquatics program, All-Americans
Jay ReVille and Elizabeth Miles.

....Well, Jimmy Connors certainly found a way to leave tennis with
all the class he brought to the game. (See recent $20,000 fine and
suspension. His career is done.) Get your CBS Sports jacket cleaned
and pressed, loudmouth...Joe Theismann is confused. Sure, he might
be able to recover from the injury. But he’s saying, ‘‘I want to finish
my career with an organization that says, ‘We want you on our team
because we think you’re someone special and that you can help us.’ ”
Unfortunately, Joe, that’s not the same thing as their wanting you on
their team because YOU think you're someone special....Guess what?
They did some booth-cleaningon Monday Night Football. Al Michaels
now will do play-by-play and the Giffer will be an analyst. O.J. and
Broadway Joe have been deep-sixed. I may start watching again.....

....Finally, Northwestern head football coach Dennis Green has
thrown in the towel and will escape to the pro ranks. After having his
Mildcats win 10 games in five years, Green, 37, must have decided he
was too young for gray hair, high blood pressure and terminal depres-

 

 

 

 

 

Ce > Se <a

eS <2 A Se ES ee a <a ee ee

DIVISION I LACROSSE POLL

CHARLOTTESVILLE (AP) — The United States Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association’s first Division I poll of the season,
with first-place votes in parentheses and records through March 23
and total points.

Record Points
1. North Carolina (10) 4-0 150
2. Syracuse 4-1 139
3. Johns Hopkins 3-1 127
4. Navy 5-0 120
5. Maryland 5-0 104
6. Rutgers 2-1 94
7. Virginia 3-1 88
8. Army 2+1 72
9. Adelphi 2-0 65
10. Md.-Baltmore County 2-2 53
11. Towson State 2-1 50
12. Loyola (Md.) 3-0 27
13. Brown 2-2 24
14. C.W. Post 2-1 19
15. Massachusetts 1-0 13

SUNGLASSES

B&L - Vuarnet - Prescription - Plain

THE NEW OPTICIANS INC.

Lexington’s ONLY Licensed Optician

; Mon. Eve. By Appointment
203 N. Main arar Lowry, Optn. 463-7440

Se a | | 0 ee eee

 

len

 

 

    
   

The
Hi

WILLSON-.
WALKER) ¢
HOUSE ait ie

Restaurant #4 i 4

 

 

 

. 4
Celebrate Easter
at the
Willson-Walker House
with our
Special Sunday Champagne Brunch
12:00-2:30
Open Tuesday through Saturday
Punch 1:30-2:30, Dinner §:30-9:00
Resers ations requested for dinner
30 N. Main St. Closed Monday
Lexington, Virginia 24450 703-463-3020)
i OS a iin oR CREE

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986, Page 7

 

 

 

TIM STANFORD

 

 

JAY REVILLE

 

 

 

_

 

ELIZABETH MILES

Stanford, ReVille, Miles
capture laurels at nationals

 

By MIKE STACHURA
and LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporters

Page Remillard and his swimmers
concluded their season in the same
fashion that characterized the
previous four months in the pool: get-
ting all — and sometimes more
— than they expected from them-
selves.

Washington and Lee’s aquatics
director described the past two
weeks’ results first at the Women’s
and then the Men’s Division III
Swimming and Diving Champion-
ships as ‘‘a reward’ for a ‘very
pleasing’’ season.

“Nationals were great,’’ Remillard
said. ‘““Everything went well.”’

Leading the way for the men’s
team (who finished 22nd in the 73-
team field), was senior co-captain
Tim Stanford. Stanford finished sec-
ond in the nation in the 200-yard but-
terfly and third in the 100 fly. Stan-

ford garnered All-America honors
for his performances last weekend.

“Stanford’s being No. 2, that is
really impressive,’ Remillard said.
“That says that in head-to-head com-
petition, there is only one man faster
in the nation.”

Stanford set school records in both
events, clocking a 1:52.13 in the 200
and a 50.62 in the 100.

Two other W&L swimmers earned
national recognition for their efforts.
Jay ReVille’s 4:11.10 in the 400-yard
individual medley was good for 10th
place and honorable mention All-
America standing, while W&L’s first
woman swimmer, Elizabeth Miles,
also was named honorable mention

A-A for her 14th place in the 500- and °

15th place in the 1650-yard freestyle
at the women’s meet held March
13-15.

ReVille also swam in the 200 IM
and the 200-yard backstroke.

Remillard described the national
championships as a “‘learning ex-
perience”’ for Miles. Noting that the

freshman’s time in the 500 was three '
seconds faster than her best time, the
coach explained that “‘she’s a team
player. The more faster swimmers
we get, the faster she will get.

“She set some standards, which
was exactly what we wanted.”

The Generals turned in their best
performance of the season in the 400-
yard medley relay, setting a new
school record, but still were unable to
make the finals in the event. Swim-
ming for the Generals were Stanford,
Moose Herring, Marty Radvany and
Matt Brady.

But when it was all said and done,
Remillard — who handled the public
address chores during the women’s
meet two weeks ago — stressed that
his successful athletes were also suc-
cessful students.

“Of our swimmers at nationals,
they had a cumulative G.P.A. of 3.3
versus a 2.7 for the rest of the team,”
Remillard said. ‘I think that is very
impressive.”

Track runs over two more foes;
McLaughlin sets school record

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Another week, another win. So goes
the season for the Washington and
Lee track and field team.

This week, the victims were New-
port News Apprentice and Eastern
Mennonite, who fell in a tri-meet at
Wilson Field on Tuesday.

Over the weekend, the Generals
competed at the Liberty University
Invitational, where the bright spot
for W&L was Jim McLaughlin’s
school record-setting throw in the
discus.

The Generals soundly defeated the
Apprentice School and Eastern Men-
nonite by amassing a total of 118
points to Apprentice’s 50 and EMC’s
7. The two wins raise the W&L mark
to a spotless 8-0.

Of the 17 events at Tuesday’s meet,
the Generals captured first place in
13 of them and took a first, second or

third in every event.

Tri-captain Chris Bleggi, returning
to full form after a bout with bron-
chitis last week, finished first in both
the 100 meters (11.42) and the 200
meters (23.15). In the 400-meter
relay, Bleggi teamed with Bill Rhine-
hart, John White and Kevin Weaver
to take first with a time of 44.72.

Andy White again turned in top
performances in the hurdles, winning
both the 110 meters and the 400
meters. Consistent Jamie Urso re-
peated last week’s performance by
capturing the 800 meters, and
Richard Moore’s 4:16.75 in the 1500
meters was good enough for first.

Ash Andrews gave the Generals
the first-place points in the 5000
meters, and the mile relay team
rounded out W&L’s successful after-
noon on what head coach Norris
Aldridge called a ‘‘slow”’ track.

In the field, John Carder was tops
in the pole vault with a 12-6 effort and
Townes Pressler and teammate Fray

McCormack shared first place in the
high jump with a 6-0 jump. Rhinehart
won the triple jump and McLaughlin
routinely won another discus event.
John Burlingame was first inthe long
jump.

‘Newport News Apprentice usual-
ly has good athletes,”’ Aldridge said.
“They usually give us a good meet.’
It’s been close the last two or three
years.”

He added that as a whole, the
team’s times weren’t as good as
previous meets, something he at-
tributed to Saturday’s Invitational at
Liberty University.

In the Lynchburg event, McLaugh-
lin threw the discus 148-6 to establish
anew W&L record. The senior placed
third in the event.

Burlingame and Carder garnered
thirds, in the long jump and pole
vault respectively.

No team points were awarded in
the meet, and no General athletes
came away with first-places.

 

 

v7

4 rN ae
t 8 - i

 

an!

-

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Townes Pressler clears the bar in Tuesday’s high jump competition

Lady tennis wins first

Bats come alive as W&L wins two of five ODAC games

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
team finally broke into the win col-
umn last week, recording victories
over Eastern Mennonite and Hamp-
den-Sydney, despite dropping three
other games over the week, a pair to
Randolph-Macon and the second half
of the Hampden-Sydney double-
header.

The week’s action sets the
Generals’ record at 2-6-1.

Head coach Jim Murdock largely
credits the Generals’ relaxed,
ipositive attitude for the break-
through.

“Our tough schedule — early con-
ference games and academics — put
more pressure on us,” he said, “but

our guys are prepared and keeping
relaxed. They’re not down.”

The Generals’ bats came alive
against Eastern Mennonite. W&L
triumphed 10-4. Third-baseman
Milam Turner went three-for-four
with three runs batted in, and
outfielder-pitcher Carter Steuart
homered to fuel the W&L attack.
Hurler Bill Schoettelkotte picked up
the win.

W&L’s hitting attack fell silent
against Randolph Macon, however,
as the Generals were soundly defeat-
ed twice, 7-0 and 9-1.

The Generals managed to get only
seven hits in the two games. Murdock
admitted, ‘“‘We’re still fighting
ourselves at the plate.”’

Freshman Mike Temple and
Steuart absorbed the losses on the
mound for W&L.

Correction

The baseball player pictured in The Phi last week was incorrectly
identified. The player in the photograph was pitcher Carter Steuart.

 

 

The Generals erupted again on
Monday against Hampden-Sydney,
winning 9-1. Steuart went four-for-
five and scored four times. Catcher
Bill Curtiss hit a two-run homer and
drove in a total of four runs to lead
W&L to its second victory. Turner ad-
ded three RBI.

Pitcher Eric Acra went five in-
nings, allowing just three hits and no
earned runs in notching the victory.

The Generals dropped the second
game.

Murdock said the future is in the
batting rack. ‘“‘Hitting is our big ques-

tion mark; everything else looks
good,’’ he said.

“We've improved, more competi-
itive than last year. We’re just
waiting for that spark,’’ Murdock
said.

W&L’s next test is at home today
against Lynchburg, whom the
Generals upset in last year’s Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tour-
nament. The Generals face Emory
and Henry at home for two on Satur-
day, and play another twinbill at VMI
on Monday.

Golfers struggle with strange course at Elon tourney

 

_ By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

_ It was a tough two rounds of golf
Monday and Tuesday for the Wash-

‘ ington and Lee men’s golf team at the

. Max Ward Invitational in Burlington,
N.C,

' Finishing 22nd out of 24 teams,

, W&L was hampered by their unfami-
liarity with the course and the lack of

‘ a practice round. Add to that the fact

that a majority of the teams com-
peting had already played on the
tournament’s course, and it was ob-
vious the Generals were in for a long
tournament.

“It was a new course, and without
the practice round, we had a tough
time of it,” senior captain Greg
Wheeler said. ‘‘It was especially dif-
ficult not knowing the distances on
each hole.”’

Wheeler, who carded a two-day
total of 162 (83-79), and sophomore

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD’

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

John Gammage 168 (86-82) were the
only bright spots for the Generals as
the team was 21st after the first day
of competition on Monday. The squad
did bounce back with some more
solid play in the second round.

“Greg played well and John really
played well, too,” W&L head coach
Buck Leslie said. ‘‘I think our pride
was a little hurt after that first
round.”

The Generals also faced a course
that was not conducive to the chip-

and-putt style of play that character-
izes the W&L team.

According to Leslie, the team
hasn’t “had enough work with the
long clubs, such as fairway woods
and three irons”’ that the long-driving
course demanded.

The Generals next take on Bridge-
water and Longwood Monday after-
noon at the Lexington Country Club.
The match will be the team’s final
contest before exams begin.

Finishing Touch

New location next to Shenandoah
Office Supplies!

All your typing and word processing needs
463-1622

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@® Wine@ Beer

Catering

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

 

matches of season;

Coyle still

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team broke into the ‘‘W’’ col-
umn twice this week, getting the
monkey off its back and also becom-
ing the first W&L women’s team to
have more than one victory in a
season.

The Lady Generals downed Ran-
dolph Macon (Ashland) and Southern
Seminary for their first wins. Losses
during the week came at the hands of
Emory and Henry, Bridgewater and
Mary Baldwin. The record stands at
2-5.

The first win ever for a W&L
women’s tennis team came Friday at
the Emory and Henry College tour-
nament, when a doubles victory gave
the team the win, 5-4.

Martha Christian, who won her
singles match 6-4, 2-6, 7-5, helped
lead the Lady Generals to victory
when she and her doubles partner
Valerie Pierson clinched the match
by winning the No. 2 doubles, 6-3, 7-5.

Dana Anstine, Courtney Coyle and
Benny Savage also won their singles
matches.

Referring to his team’s first vic-
tory, head coach Bill Washburn said,
“It was very nice, indeed. We are
very proud of the team for that win.”’

unbeaten

Pierson said, “It was really en-
couraging.’’ She added that the win
has allowed the players to relax,
knowing that they can win a match.

The Generals returned home on
Monday and picked up their second
win of the season against Southern
Seminary. W&L dominated the mat-
ch, winning 8-1.

The team did not enjoy the same
home-court success on Tuesday when
it lost to Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference opponent Mary Baldwin, 8-1.
Coyle again scored the only win for
the Lady Generals.

“Courtney seems to be our leading
scorer at the moment,’’ Washburn
said. Coyle, the No. 5, player has not
lost yet this season and has establish-
ed a 6-0 record.

Coyle attributed much of her suc-
cess to ‘‘the luck of the draw.” She
explained that among her well-
balanced teammates she has had the
advantage of playing No. 5 where the
competition is not as strong as it is at
the higher flights.

“T am also quite determined to
win,” she added.

The Lady Generals face Randolph
Macon Woman’s College today at 3
p.m. and Hollins College on Wegines-
day at 3:15. The matches will be
played on the W&L Footbridge
courts.

 

   

 

    

NEED LUbkul 103-463-1670
A CAR? WELLL Emergency
(iL: 103-377-6331
Students under 21
Must Have 2 5
prior Insurance Oo y
Approval \ Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

CHRIST IS RISEN!
HE IS RISEN INDEED!

Lexington Presbyterian Church
Holy Week and Easter Services

Maundy Thursday, March 27 -..-.-..-

Holy Communion
Good Friday, March 28 --

seeeeeeeeerseeereeereeeseewesseeneeaeeeeeees 7:30 p.m.

 

Community Service

EASTER SUNDAY, March 30

12 noon

Student Sunrise Service - Liberty Halll] oe-seeesseesseeceeeenneeereecssesenes 6:30a.m.

Regular Sunday Service
Special Music and Message

11:00a.m.

 

‘—sadae
 

 

-BACK PAGE

The Stains aren’t ‘embarrassed’ anymore

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

 

What's ina name?
Well, for the Stains, Lexington’s premier blues-
rockers, there isn’t much

Senior Will Pearsall, the group's guitarist, singer and
spokesman, said he came up with the name completely
by accident

“I was out on the 45th St. Pier in New York one night
and spilled my cigarette ashes in my beer. That’s where
we came up with the name,”’ he said.

The Stains, a four-piece outfit of Washington and Lee
students and alumni, have been playing Lexington and
the surrounding women’s colleges for about two years.
The Stains one sees these days are quite different from
the outfit one might have chanced upon last year.

Pearsall and fraternity brother Bob Clark started out
three years ago as No Problem and the Purple Blues
Band. The name might have caused some confusion as
there was no one named No Problem, nor was there
even a band. But hey! No problem! Pearsall and Clark
played acoustic versions of songs that would later
evolve into Stains standards.

The two built a following out at Mary’s Restaurant in
Natural Bridge. They already had a drummer in senior
Stains these days, Pearsall jokes that they are ‘‘still
embarrassing.”

While Clark mastered his new instrument, another

thing happened.

“We were sitting at a Stevie Ray Vaughan and
Allman Brothers concert when it hit us: we would be the
Embarrassing Stains,” Pearsall said.

The trio honed their chops and began forming their
own sound. Although the group goes primarily as the
Stains these days, Pearsall jokes that they are ‘Still
embarrassing.”

When asked about the band members, Pearsall had

these observations.

‘Bob has gone from being an adolescent delinquent
rebel from Jersey to a fine, respected member of the
Lexington business community with the help of his new
answering machine,”’ he said.

As for drummer Nat May, Pearsall said:

“T think Nat May has a drinking problem.”’

This year, the Stains added W&L alumnus Tim Eddy
on saxophone und expanded their sound drastically.
Originally, Eddy was simply invited to play with the
band at Delta Tau Delta’s United Way benefit at the
General Headquarters. earlier this fall. But, Pearsall
said, Eddy saw the light that evening.

“Tim decided that attention from the girls was more
important than playing pentatonic scales,’ Pearsall
said.

When asked how Eddy expanded the group’s sound,
Pearsall replied, ‘‘He forced us to get a bigger stage
and to tape down all our cords. Give Tim Eddy a floor of
solid concrete and he’ll find a hole to trip over.”’

So what do the Stains sound like? Well, on a bad night,
they are very good. On a good night, they are terrific.
Pearsall was squeamish about pigeonholing the group’s
sound, merely saying it is “heavily blues influenced
with Zappa overtones.”’

Their repertoire mixes B.B. King with ZZ Top, Stevie
Ray Vaughan with the Ventures, Steely Dan with Al
Green. But all of its has the band’s own distinctive
stamp.

Pearsall has begun working on original material. He
said he writes in two ways: either the words come first,
then the music, or vice versa.

‘Neither has worked so far,” he joked.

What's next for the Stains? Well, they are looking for
anew drummer (Nat May is leaving the band at the end
of this year) and they hope to keep playing.

‘‘We just want to remind our fans: if you are drinking
and driving tonight, please don’t smoke,”’ said Pearsall.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

wr

4

’

’

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi #

The Stains, left to right: Will Pearsall, Tim Eddy, Nat May and Bob Clark ‘

 

Left to right: Ned Richardson, Greg Stites and Delia Ford in ‘‘Fool for Love”

 

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main Street 463-2742

 

 

 

“For your extra pieces of furniture’’

 

 

 

 

isa
accept the Colonnade
Tes ee ok

eee
PUKE h

te Tees

463-9588
Old Main St. Mall
Pati ati) mn an We es)

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

e Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

e Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

* Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

 

OR OY HF EH BOO w HY

 

e Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and

garlic bread you can eat for 600 E. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

posters

 

only *3.49. Children under 6 Lexington
years-9% 463-7000
$9 oFF OFF
2 $por Offer

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*

restaurants
eer es essai intend aptencae a 1986

SS ee ee ee eee ee oe eee ee oe

I
|
Coed
expires!

600 E. Nelson St. :
ciation. Gh ' April
i
|
i

453-/000

 

Staff Report

 

 

The Boiler Room Theatre will be
the setting for four one-act plays
directed by Washington and Lee
students. The plays will begin Fri-
day. Two plays will be performed
each night through Wednesday.

“Fool for Love’’ and ‘‘God”’ will be
presented at 8 p.m. on Friday, Sun-
day and Tuesday. The other two
plays, ‘‘Master Harold and the Boys’”’
and “Sister Mary Ignatius Explains
It All For You,”’ will be presented on
Saturday, Monday and Wednesday at
8 p.m.

Sam Shepherd’s critically acclaim-
ed 1983 play ‘‘Fool for Love’’ will be
directed by junior Steven Sandler.
Set in a motel room in the Mojave

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

   
  

A ae Southern
on’t Sleep Through
Your Finals | nn
Study Hard! Study Late! bigs
; uden
| Have trouble getting up? Serving breakfast, lunch
| WAKE-UP SERVICE and dinner for over
| 463-1777 | 50 years
| Special Rates For Students » | Main Street, Lexington
P.O. Box $33 Lexington Virgin a 463-3612

 

 

 

"2000400886430 43 1

APRIL FOOL SALE
At The Bookstore

Books, Shirts, Posters
and more!

April 1, 2, 3

P.S. Open 8-2 on Saturday for exam books, etc.
Sees eetet ee tenn ft 8

WEST VIRGINIA
WHITEWATER
RIVER RAFTING

Sunday, May 4
on W.Va.’s lower New River

Day-long trip includes:
lunch, wetsuit and kegs.

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

Sponsored by the
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD

Organizational Meeting - 6:30 p.m.,
Tuesday, April 1
Rm. 109, Student Center.

Fraternity and individual groups welcome.

Drama students direct plays by
Woody Allen and Sam Shepherd

Desert, the play stars seniors Ned
Richardson, Eric Hager, and Greg
Stites and freshman Delia Ford.

“God,” written by Woody Allen
and directed by Greg Lunsford, is set
in Athens around 500 B.C. Cast
members are freshmen Dean Red-
ding, Elizabeth Fowler, Kevin
Struthers, John Boller and Susan
Crouse; Mathematics Professor Ver-
non Eagle; Natural Bridge teacher
Karin Price; senior Andy Shaffer;
sophomore Craig Smith; and junior
exchange student Jennifer Wise. Also
performing will be the Zeta Beta Tau
Chorus.

McDonough, the three characters
will be portrayed by senior Derrick
Freeman, junior Ronald Wilhelmsen,
and Lexington high school student
T.J. Ziegler.

Directed by junior Frank King,
“Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All
For You,” by Christopher Durang,

Lady of Perpetual Sorrow, a Catholic
school somewhere in the U.S. Cast
members are exchange student Jen-
nifer Wise, junior Louis Cella,
freshmen Ellen Sigler, Monica

ington student Doug Johnson.

“Master Harold and the Boys,”
written by Athol Fugard, takes place
in Port Elizabeth, South Africa,

The Boiler Room Theatre is
located on Henry Street under the
Old Main Street Mall. For further in-
around 1950, in the St. George’s Park formation, call the theatre office at
Tea Room. Directed by senior Mark 463-8637.

ee

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, March 27
4:30 p.m. — GEOLOGY LECTURE (Part 2): ‘“‘Well Logging, Seis, and
Geopolitics: Experiences of a Recent Grad.” John Dean, Consultant,
Room 206, Howe Hall.
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘Chemical and Physical Conse-
quences of Radioactive Decay in Transcurium Halides.”’ Dr. Josph
Peterson, University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Room 401, Howe Hall.
7-11 p.m. —- CHESS CLUB MEETING: Room 113, University Library.

Friday, March 28
2 p.m. — GEOLOGY LECTURE (Part 3): ‘Well Logging, Seis, and
Geopolitics: Experiences of a Recent Grad.” John Dean, consultant,
Room 206, Howe Hall.
3p.m.— MEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Washington College.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Sugar Cane Alley.” Classroom A,
Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — JOURNALISM ETHICS INSTITUTE LECTURE: Everett
Dennis, Executive Director of Gannett Center for Media Studies at
Columbia University, Northen Auditorium, University Library.
8 p.m. —ONE-ACT PLAYS: ‘‘Fool for Love” and ‘‘God.”’ Boiler Room
Theatre. For reservations, call 463-8637.

Saturday, March 29
1 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. Emory and Henry. Smith Field.
2 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Towson State. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “‘Sugar Cane Alley.” Classroom A.
Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — ONE-ACT PLAYS: “Master Harold and The Boys.” and
“Sister Mary Ignatius.” Boiler Room Theatre.

Sunday, March 30
8 p.m. — ONE-ACT PLAYS: ‘‘Fool for Love” and ‘‘God.”’ Boiler Room
Theatre.

Monday, March 31
4:15 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘Humanitarian Law of War, Past and Pre-
sent.”’ William T. Anderson, W&L ’72, civilian lawyer, USMC,
Washington. Classroom E of Lewis Hall.
8p.m.—ONE-ACT PLAYS: ‘‘Master Harold and the Boys” and
“Sister Mary Ignatuis.”’ Boiler Room Theatre.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Glee Club, University Chorus and Southern Com-
fort. Lee Chapel.

Tuesday, April 1
7 p.m. — ECONOMICS LECTURE: ‘The Surplus in the United States
Balance of Payments.’ John M. Gunn, associate professor of
economics at W&L, Room 327, Commerce School.
7&9p.m.— JOURNALISM FILM: ‘Gallipoli.’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
8 p.m. —ONE-ACT PLAYS: “‘Fool for Love” and ‘‘God.”’ Boiler Room
Theatre.

Wednesday, April 2
3 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. VMI.
3p.m.— TENNIS (M): Generals vs. VMI.
3:15 p.m. — TENNIS (W): Generals vs. Hollins.
3:15 p.m, — PRESIDENT’S DAY ROTC AWARDS CEREMONY. Lee
Chapel.

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘

;

4

takes place in the auditorium of Our |

~

Burke, and John Boller, and Lex- .
