 

Rats

 

Beating hearts
in Tucker Hall

 

 

Mats

    
  

  

 

Page 5

  

Grapplers rebound
with two wins

   

Page 7

 

Your Superdance weather

 

Temperatures in the 40s;
chance of rain Sunday

 

   

 

Che King-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

JANUARY 23, 1986

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 16 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Wilson: W&L is sound

 

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Flanked by portraits of George
Washington and Robert E. Lee,
President John D. Wilson on Monday

' painted a picture of a Washington

, and Lee in transition — a University
on the Appomatox Courthouse side of
_its own civil war.

, The message: Coeducation’s
wounds, more scrapes than scars,
have healed or are well on their way,

. although no one can be certain exact-
ly what direction reconstruction will

’ take.

“I believe, ladies and gentlemen,
that the state of the University is
sound,” Wilson told a Lee Chapel au-

dience gathered to commemorate
Founders’ Day and to honor initiates

into Omicron Delta Kappa, the
honorary leadership society.

Topic A at W&L remains, of
course, coeducation. Wilson’s ver-
dict: success so far.

“T think we can say that we are off

to a good start,” he said, adding that
he is ‘under no illusion that the tran-
sition is completed.”

As evidence of that success, he
pointed to the increase in applica-
tions for both the undergraduate and
law schools, even as the pool of high
school graduates is shrinking and the
number of law school applicants is
dropping sharply.

In the area of alumni giving, Wil-
son also had what he called ‘‘reassur-
ing news’: Commitments to the An-
nual Fund last year were up by 616
donors and $156,000 from the pre-
vious drive.

Wilson said that based on the ex-
perience of other schools, ‘‘we will be
several years in making the large
and small adjustments that will en-
sure that Washington and Lee suc-
ceeds in meeting the educational
needs of women as fully as it meets
the needs of men.”’

The president offered a bold vision
for the future of the University,
declaring that ‘I don’t know why we
can't stake out a place in the top 12 in

this nation and get there in a dozen
years.”

In a 40-minute speech punctuated
by quips and lighthearted observa-
tions, Wilson assumed a serious tone
in discussing some findings about
W&L’s science ‘curriculum that he
said are not ‘‘alarming at this point”’
but are ‘‘cause for concern.”

In contrast with the trend in a
study group of 48 other “‘leading
liberal arts colleges,’’ the number of
biology and geology degrees award-
ed and W&L student applications to
medical school all have fallen off in
the last five years.

Another focus of University atten-
tion will be what Wilson called ‘‘a
serious problem of faculty-wide
renewal over the next 10 to 12 years’”’
as more than 40 professors reach
retirement age

He said a faculty committee
chaired by English Professor Sidney
M.B. Coulling has been formed to
study ‘‘the delicate task.”

Omicron Delta Kappa initiates 30,
page 4.

Bag it
The Unknown Fans “bleacher dive” at last Thursday's
basketball game against Roanoke, which the Generals

won, 44-42. The team’s record stands at 8-5 after a 51-50
squeaker loss to Eastern Mennonite Tuesday night.

 
 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Unknown Fan Jamie Auch said the group will reappear
at the Emory & Henry game tonight at 7:30. Basketball
coverage begins on Page 6, and a letter about the
Unknown Fans appears on Page 2.

job market is looking up for ’86 graduates

Surveys

Say

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

 

Increased projected hiring by a wide variety of
employers means Washington and Lee seniors will
benefit from the best job market in more than a

+ decade, a University official says.

A similarly favorable forecast comes from two
new market surveys, which show the job market
indeed will be better for this year’s graduates than
it was for last year’s.

Employers are predicting they will take on
about 2 percent more college graduates this year
than they did in 1985, according to a survey of
more than 400 employers by the College Place-
ment Council Inc. for its ‘Recruiting '86”’ report.

A similar survey by Michigan State University
for its ‘15th Annual Trends Survey” showed an ex-
pected hiring increase of 0.4 percent among the
more than 700 employers surveyed.

The ioh market is “slightly better for '86 grad-

uates than ’85,”’ said Judith O’Flynn Kayser, the
Placement Council’s manager of statistical ser-
vice. That is due to a continued expansion in
economic recovery from the recent recession,
Kayser said in a telephone interview.

“The economy is so much stronger — there still
is growing room,” she said. It appears that the
growth will continue for at least the first half of
1986, she added, but cautioned that projection is
“still tentative.’’

Kayser said the companies that will step up
their hiring depends on “which ones have recover-
ed better.”

“The service industries are expanding contin-
uously,” she said, citing fields such as banking
and finance and merchandising. Ones that will not

‘do as well will be the aerospace and automotive in-

dustries, according to Kayser.

Employers expect to hire 7 percent more busi-
ness graduates at the bachelor’s degree level, the
placement council’s survey found. Liberal arts

graduates also will be in greater demand, accord-
ing to Kayser.

“It appears to be better days ahead for liberal
arts graduates,’ Kayser said. ‘‘For them, it some-
times looks like doom and gloom time.”

Kayser said the survey showed accounting
would be popular with employers. ‘Accounting
came up again and again in the business cate-
gory,’’ she said,

The suryey. also showed an increased demand _

-for-grirdwates-with degrees in science” mali, and

technical disciplines, excluding engineering.
Employers expect to hire 3 percent more grad
uates in these areas, the survey said

W&L Associate Dean of Students and Director of
Placement Michael A. Cappeto said he agrees
with the surveys. “From everything I can tell, this
will be the best job market I've seen in the 11 years
I've been at W&L,” he said.

Cappeto said the increase in hiring is probably

See Jobs, Page 4

 

...but search is still difficult

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

Several Washington and Lee students say that despite all the good
news about the-jobamnasket, offers. still aren't exactly falling into their
laps.

“Tve heard that this year is better but I’m still early in the game,”’
said senior Matt Coudert, an economics major from Greenwich, Conn.
‘No one’s knocking down my door. ”’

Peter Hunt, an interdepartmental science major from Huntington,
W.Va., agreed. ‘‘I’m pretty much worried.” he said. ‘‘Where I want to
go and where I'll end up will probably be two different places.’’

Hunt added that although he had little trouble getting interviews, he
thinks getting hired won't be easy because once the interview starts,
‘‘you realize you have really stiff competition.”’

 

‘Hearing
postponed

By JIM STRADER
_ , News Editor

 

 

The woman who last month
brought rape charges against a
Washington and Lee freshman has
left Hollins College, according to a
secretary in the dean of students’ of-
fice there.

“As far as we're concerned, she
has left school,’ said Kay Johnson,
secretary to Dean of Students

’, Margaret Evans.

The preliminary hearing scheduled

_ for freshman Burgess A. ‘‘Tommy”’

Thomasson was to have been held

Tuesday, but has been postponed

_ because the Lexington police in-

vestigation and certain laboratory

reports are incomplete, according to

| the prosecutor, Commonwealth's At-
, torney Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read.

Read said that, depending on the
availability of the defense attorneys,
he hopes to reschedule the prelimi-
nary hearing for ‘‘sometime within a

* month.”

Thomasson was arrested Dec. 8 in
Graham-Lees Dormitory in connec-
tion with a 2 a.m. incident involving

’ an 18-year-old woman who was then a
freshman at Hollins.

*Boots and bandanas make up
the new ‘‘barbarian wear" in the
weight room, page 2

eThe whole story’’ has chang-
d ed on a_ non-voting woman
member of the Student Control
Committee, the Executive Com-
mittee contends, page 3

*A look at a University retreat,
page 3.

Everybody eats at Lloyd's, but
have you ever eaten everything at
Lloyd's? Our boys did, page 8

 

SUPERDANCE

 

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

This weekend’s Muscular Dystrophy Association
Superdance may be the last one at which the beer flows
as freely as do the donations, planners of the dance-a
thon warn.

Tougher Virginia alcohol laws may mean dry Super-
dances. in the future, possibly jeopardizing the amount
Washington and Lee historically has raised through the
charitable event, according to the students

A grandfather clause in the new law raising the drink
ing age allows most upperclassmen to continue to pur
chase beer, but next year more than half the student
body will be ineligible to drink, jeopardizing the
school’s ability to obtain a liquor license for a bash such
as the Superdance.

This weekend's festivities get underway tomorrow at
8 p.m. in the Student Activities pavilion. The 30-hour
marathon, which includes dancing, pie throws and
music, continues until 1 a.m. Sunday

The benefit will feature four bands: The Maxx
Xenon, the White Animals, and the Sparkplugs. Taped
music will be played during the breaks.

Superdance co-chairmen Sandy Whann and Paul

 

 

 

& iad =

 

Superdance Special Events Chairman Sam Svalina conducts a slave auction

‘87 dance-a-thon may be dry

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

James, both seniors, hope to raise $30,000 through the
dance and other related activities. Last year’s event
raised $33,213.

As was the case with previous Superdances, the beer
will be furnished for pledged dancers. Spectators ean
attend the dance for $7, and beer will be sold.

“The beer is a big contributor,’’ James said

Virginia’s new drinking law, which requires a person
to be 21 years of age in order to purchase beer, could af
fect future dances significantly, said James

“If the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board doesn’t
grant us a license, I see the chance that they won't be
able to raise as much,”’ he added

The Superdance Steering Committee plans to hold
several meetings after the dance in order to study how
much beer sales contribute to the final donation figure,
according to James.

“We might have to live with the fact that the W&L
Superdance can’t make as sizable a donation as in the
past,’ James said. ‘‘Maybe we could find other ways to
get around it

Associate Dean of Students Michael Cappeto said that
the ABC probably will issue a state-wide policy some
time this summer. He said he hopes that any change in

See Dance, Page 5

 

 

ee erin

SUPER BOWL
Bears, Pats boring?

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Though it has become
something closer to the
Hype Bow! than the Super
Bowl, Sunday’s match-up
between the Chicago Bears
and New England Patriots
has aroused the interest of
much of the nation, in-
cluding the campus of
Washington and Lee.

Everyone from Pete Ax-
thelm to Jimmy ‘The
Greek”’ has got an opinion
about the outcome of Super Bow! XX, and W&L will be chock full of
armchair quarterbacks Sunday afternoon. There are some who claim
they knew the opponents for the championship game months ago.

‘Nobody remembers now, but I did say it,”’ said Nick Berents, a
senior from Cohasset, Mass., who explained that he predicted a Bears-
Patriots Super Bowl after New England’s six-game winning streak in
October and November.

Mike Stachura, sports editor of The Ring-tum Phi and sports
commentator for WLUR-FM, said he made a similar prediction about
the Patriots’ fortunes on the weekly radio show, “SportsTalk.”

Conjecture faces reality Sunday at 5 p.m., when the Bears and

 

 

 

 

Patriots tee it up in the New Orleans Super Bow!

Oddsmakers have placed the Bears as 11-point favorites, but Spirits
have not dimmed in anticipation of this year’s world championship.

The General Headquarters will have three wide-screen televisions
for those viewing Sunday’s game. Numerous Super Bowl parties
~some planned, some not — will ocur on Sunday, too

But not everyone enjoys watching the Super Bow! with a crowd
WA&L standout tailback Kevin Weaver said that he intends to watch the
game at his apartment and ‘‘iust relax.’

University Publications Director Jeff Hanna, who covered three
Super Bowls during his 10-year career as a sportswriter for the
Nashville Tennessee and the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, said that he en
joyed watching the game live until he realized he had a deadline to
meet, Otherwise, Hanna prefers Weaver's idea and plans to watch
Super Bowl XX at home

Strange as it may sound, some students do not have plans to watch
the game at all. W&L wide receiver Hugh Finkelstein said that if there
are no good movies on TV, he might watch the game

“It's a boring game on TV,” Finkelstein said “The playoff games
are good, but the Super Bowl is too commercialized ”

Hanna agreed and said that the game sometimes bores him, too. He
said that when the Super Bow] is exciting
do not play well

‘How can they raise their level of play
should this game be any better than the on

itis because the two teams

Hanna asked
played earlier

‘Why
this

See Bowl, Page7

 

 
OPINION
Dreaming

While the rest of the country commemorated Martin
Luther King on Monday and tried to remember his dream for
this country, the crowd in Lee Chapel for the Founders’ Day
convocation was treated to the dream of a different in-
dividual, University President John D. Wilson. For nearly 45
minutes, Wilson painted a rosy picture of the future of the
school; his vision seemed clear, the means appeared present
and the end was altogether too perfect. The megatrendy John
Naisbitt would have been proud of the budding futurist.

Wilson’s dream for the future of the school painted several
distinct pictures, Wilson boasted most about the academic
health of the University. The statistics, while in themselves
not evidence of the academic improvement in entering
students, were flowing freely: higher Scholastic Aptitude
Test scores, more valedictorians, and increased numbers of
applications for both the College and the Law School in an
age when the applicant pool is declining at most schools.

Included in the well-being of the W&L academic at-
mosphere are the special academic studies programs
created in recent years. The University Scholars program,
the expansion of the East Asian Studies program, the
establishment of the computer science major and the new
core curriculum all stand as evidence of the emphasis the
University places on refinement and perfection. Few other
schools of similar size can boast of such innovation or results.

Wilson also was optimistic about the future of the faculty,
especially in view of the recent influx of ‘“‘new blood”’ into the
administration and certain prominent faculty posts. While
his listing of the many new faces on campus may have been a
‘‘dizzying litany,”’ it nonetheless served to remind us all that
the University is indeed experiencing great change.

The challenges, though, are not all behind us. In the next 12
years, Wilson noted, 40 professors will reach retirement age.
Seeking new and talented faculty will be a formidable task,
and on it depends our academic excellence and reputation.
That a faculty committee is already studying the dilemma
and considering ways to meet the challenge speaks highly of
the foresight of administration officials.

Finally, Wilson’s description of the Washington and Lee
campus of the 21st century makes Donald Trump’s ambition
seem modest. Whether the president was talking about the
new dormitory (or is it a residence hall?) or 6 University
Place (the Morris House) or 32 University Place (the new ad-
missions office, upon completion in several years), he seem-
ed to be focusing on a grand master plan in which each of the
undertakings is but a small component.

In a nostalgic aside, Wilson also commented on the beauty
of the campus he has presided over for the past three years.
At least we know someone is walking the campus at dawn and
admiring the “‘Woods Creek ravine”’ or the back of the Colon-
nade.

Wilson’s closing hinted at a metropolitan and cultural mec-
ca developing in Lexington, all centered around the school in-
fluenced — founded, if you will — by Generals Washington
and Lee. We do not see ‘Aida’ or ‘‘The Barber of Seville”
playing Lexington anytime in the near future, although stu-
dent and faculty attempts at such a production might stretch
the imagination as much as the vocal chords.

One part of Wilson’s speech we wish he had developed fur-
ther was the involvement and cooperation that might be
strengthened between the University and the community. In
any other town, a firm employing as substantial a percentage
of the community that contributed so little to the town would
be an object of great scorn. We have been spared that
criticism, the community does not have unlimited patience,
especially when it comes to rude students and impolite
customers.

Finally, we’d like to note the ease and sincerity with which
Wilson spoke. When he talked of walking along the back cam-
pus with the sun rising over the Blue Ridge, you see the light
in his eyes as clearly as he sees the light in the Eastern sky,
and you could sense the humanity of John Wilson that so
many forget — or intentionally overlook. How sad that he
cares so deeply and genuinely for a campus that seems to
love him only part of the time.

His dream for the University is one we share. We hope the
time comes when it’s no longer just a vision, but a reality.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi last week in-
correctly reported the disposition
of a misdemeanor charge against
sophomore Calvin Rankin. The
charge was dismissed

* * *

ties would be able to find locations
“when the fraternities go down”
was meant to refer to a few frater-
nities that may face closure and
not to fraternities in general.

2 3

A quotation from freshman
Melissa Thrasher in last week's
issue was accurate but lacked
context. Her comment that sorori-

Pamela H. Simpson was incor-
rectly identified in the ‘‘Inside”’
box of last week’s Phi. She is the
Associate Dean of the College.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

 

 

 

Weight room: An exegesis on exercise

 

MY VIEW

By Mike McAlevey

 

The way I see it, God created
everything, everyplace and everyone
with a purpose — from the White
House to the outhouse, and from the
president to bovine scum. For exam-
ple, a prostitute’s existence seems to
be based on saying: ‘Hey, sailor!
How about a little bouncy-bouncy?”’
Or, and to address my issue for this
week, weight rooms were created
with the specific intent of ‘getting
big for the chicks,’’ or maybe for the
less serious, a place to lay the foun-
dation for athletic greatness. Why, to
mistake anything’s natural purpose
is as bad as mistaking the leader of
the greatest Western power as a
cheesy B-movie actor.

Weight rooms were once consider-

Founders’

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

Ask any alumnus what he
remembers most about Founders’
Day at Washington and Lee, and cer-
tain aspects of that venerable tradi-
tion will always be mentioned. There
is the usual cutely spun tale about
General Lee that always appears in
the keynote address. Some might
even note that Washington was occa-
sionally mentioned. Or there might
be someone’s memory of how the
faculty always looked so stately in
their academic dress.

But students and faculty who have
participated in the last 70 or so

ed sacred; memories of smashed
toes and detached fingers were as
thick as the smell of unwashed gym
shorts. But now the sanctity of our
weightroom is gone. Like bingo in
church, our muscle factory has
become a monument to bad taste.
With the advent of coeducation at
Washington and Lee, certain struc-
tural alterations have afflicted our
weight room and its patrons. Honest-
ly, when God was giving out brains,
whoever mandated the positioning of
the locker rooms was in the hemor-
rhoids line getting seconds. Now, the
zealous men who swarm for exercise
like drones to the honey nest on Mon-
days and Fridays must endure an ar-
duous trek. All that these guys
wanted in the first place was a pump
for the weekend or to sweat out the
toxins of a typical spree of orgiastic
excess. Now they must march with
tightened hamstrings and parched
lips, indicative of Sahara exposure,

just to get a damn drink of water, or
even more pressing, to pass water. I
don’t think it would be a bad idea to
distribute rubber bands at the door to
aid those of weaker bladder.

Architecture, however, is the least
of our worries. What has developed
now in not too far from our own little
version of an isometric singles club.
The effervescent vapors of a well-
worked underarm have been sup-
planted by the stench of Chanel No. 5.
Wouldn’t you rather smell Ben-Gay
than a yoking by violence of forty dif-
ferent perfumes and colognes? One
could easily mistake a trip to the
weight room for a visit to the Macy’s
fragrance counter.

Fashion has also become an un-
sightly issue, and men and women
are equally guilty. Do work boots and
bandanas really enhance one’s lifting
prowess? Come on, guys, how about
moving a little iron instead of being a
slave to the new trend in barbarian

wear? And, ladies, slick Adidas
leotards do little in the way of
enhancing aerodynamics when rid-
ing a stationary bike. Remember,
under physical stress, rouge and
mascara will only smear, rendering
one’s face a close facsimile to an im-
pressionist canvas.

To be fair, which is difficult, I
clearly regard all the preceding pro-
blems as ones to be confronted in the
short run. In the long run, however, I
foresee a bold new frontier of car-
diovascular felicity. Bag the Bruce
tape and jam a little Donna Summer;
this way the more creative couples
can do tandem jump rope acts. And
don’t we all anticipate that day when
a simple spot becomes an opportuni-
ty to meet your Jane or Arnold, a
romantic rendezvous at the military
press, a peck on the cheek at the
chinup bar, but please, no heavy pet-
ting on the situp mat. Let me not
stand in the way of progress!

Day not same without Latture

Founders’ Days will remember one
man who always was present — with
the only exceptions begin this year
and a couple of years during WWI
when he was stationed in Europe.
Even students today see him around
the campus, usually walking toward
the Alumni House or along the Colon-
nade.

Rupert Nelson Latture is certainly
no ordinary member of the W&L
community. Nearly a tradition in
himself, Latture has become as great
a part of the campus in his own 94
years as did Lee or Washington in
their lifetimes. It would seem that
were Professor Latture’s birthday
not so close to the celebration itself,
he might himself command center
stage at every Founders’ Day cele-

bration.

But Professor Latture was unable
to attend Monday’s celebration. He
was likewise unable to attend the
President’s reception beforehand for
Omicron Delta Kappa initiates or the
luncheon that followed the public
“tapping,’’ in which initiates formal-
ly professed faith in the qualities of
leadership upon which ODK was
founded. Latture, some might say,
was unable to revel in his own crea-
tion, since he was one of the original
founders of the honorary fraternity in
1914.

Latture has been resting and re-
cuperating at home recently, await-
ing the day when he will occupy
again his desk in the alumni house
and when he can catch up on the cor-

LETTERS

Origin of Unknown Fans said to be racist

respondence. I believe that the Uni-
versity, as President John D. Wilson
noted in his address Monday, is also
awaiting his return to campus. The
contributions he has made to the
welfare of the school and the prin-
ciples he has espoused and nurtured
at W&L have become such ap inte-
gral part of the school that one might
think without Latture, things will
proceed in a state of normalcy. We
couldn’t be further from the truth. He
may not be present, but he cannot be
forgotten.

The scholar-gentleman ideal he
has embodied before countless stu-
dents is an ideal that we as a univer-
sity honor on Founders’ Day. It is our
loss that we could not share in his
presence Monday.

 

EE ee

To the editors:

For the three years I’ve been enrolled in the
Law School, I’ve annually attended the W&L vs.
Roanoke College basketball game. W&L’s Coach
Canfield, one of the most skillful teachers and
tacticians of the game of basketball in the coun-
try, always has his team extraordinarily pre-
pared. His kids play with confidence, courage,
and unrelenting determination.

However, some of the most exciting and well-
played games I’ve ever witnessed have been de-
tracted from by the so-called entertainment of
the “unknown fans.’’ Having coached at
Roanoke College for three years and worked in
other capacities for an additional three years, I
am well aware of the history of the ‘unknown
fan’ and the derisive implication of the brown

Catholics, Hispanics and other racial and
religious minorities as well.

I told Coach McHenry that I was offended by
the “Grand Dragon” apron and that I thought it
was in poor taste. Coach McHenry expeditiously
but quietly and professionally called the young
man aside and apparently asked him to remove

* the apron. The student did in fact turn the apron

inside out. I thank Coach McHenry for his posi-
tive and professional response.

I know each person is guaranteed the right of
freedom of expression. However, I am sure there
are many ways to support the W&L team and
poke fun at the opposing team and fans without
injecting subtle racial overtones and certainly
without making overt reference to an idiotic and
fanatical group which is offensive to many in the

ment, nol LO Menuun al extucmiely UeiuUcU ual -
cissistic attitude that lacks any substance, and
actually reveals great insecurity. Simply attend-
ing classes at a university of great stature is not
the basis for judgment of others. Success comes
from within, and it seems to me that unless many
of our students look within themselves to dis-
cover that they also are deeply flawed human be-
ings like those they condemn or step on, they will
be failures as human beings no matter how high
their careers soar or how much money they
make.

In conclusion, the public displays of this worst
type of student apathy, moral apathy, I find to be
the single greatest problem within this universi-
ty. The barbaric behavior at the R.E.M. concert

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
BEROUU VG ID es ch sins a eas Mike Allen
ee ae ee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
PURSE 8a hie nc Reade Williams
Epes dei eee
bg ee cae Jim Strader
Peetepaply GO 8. hii i eee
ge eee ee Matt Horridge
EOISIAMIET II . wii iae Marshall Boswell
PURPURA RI 6 oie ek ccna ba rea cee cee ee Jason Lisi
AEG EE CARA ss i iis David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
Beihai! ae TN coos ob bas coi ce io sn oes tas a steaks Nelson Patterson
Amit TA I ins 6 ccc ei tse tinienent Marie Kothman
COPECO eho bes 65 os a is Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
ee |. eee eben ray) oper ew ‘ ‘ Lace pee ee Jeff Kimbell
er eerrr ere rrr rey

Advertising Salesmen,........... John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,
Jay Reville, Greg Turley

eo eee eee

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The

Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.
Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of

the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

bags worn over each ‘‘fan’s”’ head.

The “unknowns” began to appear several
years ago when Roanoke, over a period of three
to five years, started at least three black players
and would often play a major portion of the
games with five black players on the floor. The
“unknown fan’’ to my knowledge only appeared

W&L community.

Students resent judgment

and the Roanoke game should speak for them-
selves. I resent the assertion that these displays
are the core of the University, and I resent the in-
timation that my time can be better spent in a
gym screaming like a madman at a group of Di-
vision III student-athletes. Finally, I find Mr.
Patterson's moral judgment on the private, peri-
pheral and superficial matters of individual stu-

Michael Parrish
Law Class of 1986

 

 

during the Roanoke game. On each bag was
drawn identifiable black features: thick lips,
broad noses, mustaches and goatees. Often in-
scribed on the bags were such statements as:
“Ed Green [the coach of the Roanoke team] is
really black.’’ W&L at that time, as now, had no
black players. The reasonable inference from all
of this along with chants of ‘food stamps’’ and
“welfare’’ was that it was somehow bad to have
too many black players.

During last week’s game with Roanoke one of
the ‘‘unknowns’’ wore a white chef’s apron that
had ‘‘The Grand Dragon”’ written on it. I don’t
have to infer what was meant by that inscription.
The term on its face is despicable.

A reference made to a leader of the Ku Klux
Klan in conjunction with the implications of the
brown-bag-wearing ‘‘unknowns”’ is offensive to
me and in bad taste. There is nothing funny
about perhaps the only, and certainly the oldest,
recognized terrorist group in the United States.
It is not unknown and certainly not funny that
this group has lynched, shot and burned black
people (often perpetrated in a single murderous
outpouring of hatred and bigotry). It is not
unknown that this ultra-radical group of terrorist
lunatics hates not only blacks, but Jews,

To the editors.

I was very disturbed when I read Mr. Patter-
son’s moral dictum on the editorial page last
week, finding the public judgment on the private
affairs of students off campus trifling and inap-
propriate for an editorial, and taking exception
to the assumption that ‘‘when we see a full house
at a Warner Center match-up, we know why this
school exists and why we take pride in it.’’ While
I believe in supporting our athletic programs and
share the enthusiasm in the increasing support, I
am sure I speak for many others when I say that
I do not find this to be the heart of W&L. The
benefits of W&L are most visible in the faculty,
honor system and campus. That is what college
is about.

But it was not until after the game against
Roanoke that this editorial began to appear
ludicrous to the point of infuriating. For it is in
that public display of self-righteous egomania in
the student body that is the core of most of the
difficulties at this otherwise excellent institution.
Chants of ‘That's alright, that’s okay, you're
gonna work for me someday,”’ ‘‘Food stamps,”’
and “If you can’t go to school, go to Roanoke,”’
besides many audible racial slurs, characterize
the student body's immaturity and poor judg-

dents inappropriate, irresponsible and incorrect.

Librarian cautions pyros

editorial on playing with fire in the library.
There is no faster way to threaten the free and
open atmosphere that all students now enjoy

we must monitor the stacks to prevent ‘“‘pyro-
serious work, we will have to take staff resources

now being used for other services, such as keep-

the library’s liberal hours lost to all because of

ae childish and thoughtless behavior of only a
ew.

Christopher Leva
Winthrop T. Phillips
Class of 1986

To the editors:
I was appalled by the actions reported in your

than to behave in ways that demand the attention
of additional library staff or security people. If

technic fantasies,” pizza parties and other juve-
nile antics harmful to library materials and to

ing the building open 24 hours, I would hate to see

Barbara J. Brown
University Librarian

 

 

?

 

 

 
> *

~

 

~

 

s

 

' winter term. Non-fraternity mem-
, bers posted a 2.766 compared with

' 2.785, compared with the men’s 2.625.

tically in many cases. Chi Psi came
in first with 2.781. The remaining
members of the top five are: Kappa
Sigma, 2.738; Phi Delta Theta, 2.698;
Sigma Phi Epsilon, 2.618; and Pi
Kappa Alpha, 2.6.

Psi, 2.566; Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
2.565; Sigma Nu, 2.554; and Sigma
Chi, 2.545 fill out the top ten.

Lambda Chi Alpha at 2.535, Phi Kap-
pa Sigma at 2.524, Zeta Beta Tau at
2.514, Phi Gamma Delta with 2.442,
Delta Tau Delta with 2.382 and Beta
Theta Pi with 2.340.

gain, rising from 15th to second, and
Zeta Beta Tau fell the farthest from
second to 14th.

Skylark offers W&L organizations a place to ‘get away’

NEWS

 

Fraternity
grades
decline

 

Pe

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

 

Fall term’s grade point average for
all students remained at 2.64 from
winter term last year, marked by a
slight decline by fraternities and a
slight increase by independents.

‘The average GPA of fraternity
members stands at 2.572 for the fall
term compared with the 2.607 of last

 

 

 

 

 

271. :
Women had an average GPA of

This year’s freshman class posted
a 2.562 GPA, while last year’s fresh-
men had a 2.253.

Sophomores scored 2.532 last term,
juniors 2.61 and seniors 2.913.

Fraternity rankings changed dras-

Kappa Alpha, 2.598; Phi Kappa

Next are Pi Kappa Phi with 2.542,

 

King remembered

Junior Michael Webb (center) and Associate Dean of Students for Minori-
ty Affairs Anece McCloud (far right) listen to the Gospel Way Choir at the

 

 

By Scott J. Ferrell/W&L

United Methodist Church on Randolph Street as part of a Martin Luther King

Kappa Sigma posted the biggest

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

and Lee —
by school officals and student leaders.

 

tied ye

Nestled at milepost 26 on the Blue Ridge Parkway,
about 45 minutes from campus, is a 365-acre compound
that includes three houses, a Christmas tree farm, a lake

and a croquet course.

Does Robin Leach know about this?

Whatis it, a tourist trap? A millionaire’s hideaway?
No, it’s Skylark, a retreat that belongs to Washington
an elegant, peaceful off-campus retreat used

Built by Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Cheek, it was originally in-

Jr. program. Sponsored by the Washington and Lee Minority Student
Association and the Black Law Student Association. Auther Darnell Stamps
gave a talk on the life and influence of the slain minority rights leader, who
was honored Monday witha federal holiday.

tended as a family retreat. For health reasons, though,
they were forced to relinquish it. In 1977, the couple
donated the land and buildings to W&L in hopes that the
‘schoot could use the facilities. The 365-acre grounds in-
clude a main house, manager's house.and a guest house,
along with a number of other smal] buildings.

Also located on the grounds is a 15-aere Christmas tree
farm that came with the property. According to W. Scott
Beebe, Skylark’s manager and W&L’s assistant superin-
tendent of buildings and grounds, approximately 25,000
trees fill the farm and bring in between $6,000 to $20,000 a
year.

Although the revenue varies from year to year, the
farm generally breaks even, Beebe said. Maintenance

 

NEWS BRIEFS
sexuality forum attendance low

 

Staff Report

 

The first meeting of an experimental, voluntary pro-
gram for freshman males on gender roles and sexuality
issues attracted only two freshmen Monday night.
University Psychologist James Worth said a scheduling
conflict with intramural basketball was a major reason
for the low turnout.

The program, which is only for freshman men, has
been rescheduled for Jan. 30 from 7 to 8 p.m. in Room
301 of the Commerce School.

Worth explained that last term freshman women at-
tended a program about birth control and problem
pregnancies. Worth and Associate Dean of Students
Anne C.P. Schroer wanted to offer a program for which
the subject matter could be modified to something more
meaningful to Washington and Lee freshman males.

“We are not going to be preaching,’’ Worth emphasiz-
ed.

A panel of four students, including seniors Michael
Black and Lee Hollis, dormitory counselor Jodi Ring-
land, and freshman Julie Sheppard will ‘‘talk about
some issues and problems that W&L freshman males
encounter here,’’ he said. Students will have the oppor-
tunity to submit written questions to the panelists.

Expected topics of discussion include “peer pressure
relating to sexual matters, confusion and ignorance be-
tween freshman men and women about what they need
and value in terms of sex and intimacy, and the issue of
being committed in relationships,’ Worth said. Other
related issues will include sexually transmitted
diseases, date rape, homosexuality and birth control.

“It is not meant to be confrontational between men
and women at W&L,”’ Worth explained. ‘‘We hope that
after going to this, W&L freshman males will feel they
understand women just a little better,”’

—Deborah Hattes

Sophomore reports crank calls

Sophomore Steve Roth has reported to Lexington
Police that he has been receiving prank phone calls
from children whose ages he estimates range from four
to 10,

According to police reports, the children call at least
three afternoons per week, swearing and laughing and
use all the tape on Roth’s answering machine. When he
answers the phone, they don’t say anything. He has re-
quested a tap for his phone so the children can be iden-
tified and their parents notified. He does not plan to pro-
secute, according to the report.

In other police action:

eJunior Robert Lutz reported that a radio-cassette
player had been taken from his BMW between 9 p.m

Wednesday and 2 a.m. ihursday. The thief entered the
car through the sun roof, which was open about three
inches. There were no witnesses and police have no sus-
pects.
eCol. Beverly Read of 305 S. Jefferson St. reported
that someone broke into his Ford Fairmont between
5:30 p.m. Monday and 7:45 Tuesday, and stole a first aid
kit and a pair of prescription glasses from the glove
compartment. There were no signs of forced entry on
the car door, which had been locked. There were no
witnesses. Read is the father of the commonwealth’s at-
torney, Beverly C. ‘“‘John’’ Read
—Sean Bugg

Prominent psychologist to speak

Howard R, Pollio, a professor of psychology at the
University of Tennessee, will conduct seminars and
present a lecture later next week in Lewis Hall

Pollio’s visit Jan. 30 and 31 is sponsored jointly by the
Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program and the
Washington and Lee Cognitive Studies Program.

‘Taking Humor Seriously” is the title of Pollio’s lec-
ture Thursday, Jan. 30 at 4 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom.
The lecture is free and open to the public.

"85 Calyx due in 2 weeks

The final proofs of the 1984-85 Calyx are on their way
to the publisher and the book should be out in about two
to three weeks, according to editor David Sprunt

The yearbook was scheduled to be distributed at
matriculation in September

In other Calyx action, '85-86 editors Charles Nusbaum
and Dennis Francis warn that deadlines are approach
ing for student pictures

eSeniors that still want to order prints can do so dur-
ing the same hours. Prices range from $10 to $14, and all
orders must be prepaid

eFor the 65 seniors who have not their picture
taken for the yearbook, or have not handed one in, this
is the last chance. Appointments can be made by « alling
463-8583 before Jan. 31. No personally submitted black

}
had

and white glossy prints will be accepted after Feb. 7
eFor underclassmen who failed t ve their pictures

taken before Christmas, Andre Studios, located at 221 S

Main St., will conduct a makeup session next Thursday

from 1-5 p.m
eSenior Index Forms must be turned in to the
office by Jan. 31

Calyx

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

SCC says it doesn’t
want ad hoc woman

 

aon
By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

The Student Control Committee
might not get the non-voting woman
member it has been expecting

SCC Chairman Townes Pressler
told the Executive Committee Mon-
day night that he had ‘‘misrepresent-
ed the views” of the other members
of his committee when he said they
were in favor of appointing a woman
ad hoc non-voting member to the
SCC.

The EC last month narrowly ap-
proved a motion to appoint a female
SCC member to give advice on con-
duct matters involving women.

SCC Vice President Tony McCann
said that the committee members
were against the proposal. McCann

 

said that the SCC reached a 10-1-1
vote against the

woman on the committee

addition of the

“They agreed that we can handle
the cases in an unbiased manner
without the woman ad hoc member,”’
Pressler said

McCann suggested having the
female student's dormitory coun
selor speak as an advocate if
dent felt uncomfortable about ap-
pearing in front of the board

“If a girl has a problem and she
cant come to the committee
don’t see that a girl on the committee
is going to change that,’’ said Mc
Cann

Lewis said, ‘‘What you're basically
telling me is... we’re having the exact
opposite that we had a month ago.’

“No,” Pressler said. “I
month ago.

the stu

we

said a
I didn’t think there was

any problem with us handling a case
with a woman.”

Lewis concluded the matter by say-
ing, “We made a vote last time that
was probably wrong for several rea-
sons: one, because I allowed in a pro-
xy vote; and two, it seems to me that
the whele story seems to have chang-
ed now.”’

After voting to appoint a woman to
the SCC, EC's authority to do so was
questioned. EC member Pat Hayden
Said Monday night that the faculty
Executive Committee voted unani-
mously to recommend to the faculty
that the EC be given the power to put
a woman member on the SCC.

The faculty will vote Feb. 3
whether to give the EC power to ap-
point such members. The EC will
wait for the faculty decision before
closing the question.

Contact plans big for spring

 

 

ES iE IEEE: CEO AES
By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Contact 85, the student group responsible for bringing
speakers to campus, has yet to do so this year, because
the group has planned a four-week concentrated sym-
posium to allow more ‘‘focus”’ in the program, according
to chairmen Lee Hollis and Jim Kerr.

Kerr said the committee is ‘shooting for March’’ to
begin a series of four to six speakers to address ‘‘issues
facing our student generation.’’ He added that, by direc
ting the symposium toward specific issues, it will be ‘‘a
lot bigger deal,’’ and provide continuity and intellectual
credibility to Contact. This plan would also allow better
publicity, Kerr said.

Both Hollis and Kerr declined to name the speakers
they had contacted, because none has made a commit-
ment. According to Hollis, their aim in choosing the lec
turers is to find ‘‘someone who will be of interest to the
majority of the students and to the community as a
whole.”’

Working with a 10-member committee, Hollis and Kerr

for the rest of the retreat is financed through the general
budget.

Beebe surpervises a full-time Skylark staff of three: a
general manager, his wife, who live there, and one addi-
tional full-time employee. The men divide their time be-
tween the Christmas tree operation and daily Skylark up
keep such as planting, cutting and mowing.

The trees are organized into plantations, and the farm
is run according to recommendations from the Forestry
Department at Virginia Polytechnical Institute.

The plantation is used by the administration for ac.
tivities such as academic retreats, trustee meetings and
dinners, and alumni board meetings.

At times, University President John D. Wilson and the

have been relving on alumni, business and family con-
nections to find speakers for the upcoming event.

Hollis pointed out that the committee hoped to sponsor
a woman speaker, since one has never spoken at a Con-
tact function. ‘We'd like to have at least one,” he said.

Hollis and Kerr have also been working with jour-
nalism Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff on developing a
forum dealing with military procurement practices.

some speakers Contact has presented in the years
since the group’s inception in 1965 are convicted
Watergate criminal G. Gordon Liddy, pollster George
Gallup, 1960s activist and former Harvard professor
Timothy Leary and nationally renowned trial lawyer F.
Lee Bailey

Contact, which is supported equally by the Executive
Committee and the Interfraternity Council, has a budget
this year of about $16,000. Hollis described the IFC’s in-
volvement as an attempt “to get the fraternities involv-
ed in doing something for the good of the school.”’

Kerr added that Contact is ‘‘a public relations thing for
the fraternities. It should reflect the monetary commit-
ment that’s been made to it in the past couple of years,
and that’s what we’retryingtodo.’ .

deans head up to Skylark to “get away’’ from the school
and discuss affairs ina detached environment, according
to the president’s executive assistant, Frank A. Parsons.

Parsons said students may not use the facilities without
an organization because it is “not a recreational outlet.”’
Under certain circumstances, student groups may be
able to use Skylark, In the past, for instance, University
picnics have been held there

Parsons said there may be ways to put the facilities to
better use. It presently can accomodate 17 people, but,
Parsons said, five or six of these must be good friends,
since the rooms are small

Parsons said there’s even been talk of expansion.

Hello, Robin?

 

 

Whom would
you like to have

speak at W&L?

SSS 5 RL eon Sy aA ee eae
Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON Julian
Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

 

 

Emily
ien, Conn
who wrote
joyed his book

Michael

Cappeto, Assistant
Dean of Students: ‘Well, Arch
bishop Desmond Tutu, if I had my
choice of anybody. I think, by and
large, those of us in America are
playing ostrich to racial situations
around the world and the whole
area of human rights. I would like
to see a higher level of con-
sclousness in our community.”’

 

 

TALKBACK

 

Phillips,
Atlanta: “Lee lacocca, because
he represents America and Amer
ican business. He's probably the
best businessman in America.”’

 

Bevill

rom Wolfe, the guy

freshman,

The Right Stuff

 

freshman, Mary Anne Loftin, freshman,
Winston-Salem, N.C.: ‘Alan Alda

I think he’s hysterical.”’

 

Rudy
Grange, Ga.:

Celis, sophomore, La-
“Hunter S. Thomp-
He's a writer. Tom Wolfe's

counterpart, basically, They’re

Dat
30

en

very similar people.”’

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

Latture misses first ODK tapping since W.W. |

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee leaders of past
and present were honored in Lee
Chapel at Monday’s Founders’ Day
Convocation and Omicron Delta Kap-
pa initiation, but one of the school’s
most prominent figures was missing.

Due to illness, Emeritus Politics
Professor Rupert N. Latture, a 1915
graduate and one of ODK’s founders,
missed his first convocation in over
70 years. The last time he was absent
was during his military service in
France during World War I.

Latture said by telephone this week
that he feels ODK ‘“‘has done very
well” and serves a ‘‘useful function”
on the campus.

ODK, founded in 1914 by three W&L
students, is a national honor society
that recognizes student leaders for
contributions to the academic, athle-
tic, social, religious and literary
areas of campus life. More than
102,000 people have been inducted in-

Jobs

Continued from Page |

 

 

due to the recovery of the economy.
“Hiring trends are very key to the
economy,” he said. And, according to
Cappeto, ‘across the board, jobs
seem to be available everywhere.”

Stephen P. Bredin, W&L’s place-
ment consultant, said the school’s
graduates have good prospects. ‘I
think we're in good shape,”’ he said.
“The product here is good.”

Bredin also said he agrees with the
surveys’ findings. ‘Basically the job
market in some areas is going to be
better,’ he said. ‘You have to know

’ what companies to look for,” he ad-

ded. ‘You've got to use a little imagi-
nation.”

He mentioned the James River and
Mead corporations as expanding
companies, and added that Procter &
Gamble has ‘the best, or one of the
best, market training programs.”

Bredin said his task is to show W&L

as a “class place” in order to lure
recruiters to Lexington. Many of the

to the nation’s ODK circles.

President John D. Wilson noted in
his keynote address that this week is
Latture’s 94th birthday.

“Rupert, we salute you on this day,
a day marked for tributes and notes
of special gratitude,”’ he said. “The
debt your university owes to you can
never be fully repaid, but we thank
you sincerely for the grace and devo-
tion of your decades of service to
Washington and Lee and we wish you
the happiest of all the birthdays you
have been given to enjoy on the ear-
th.”

Wilson salso recognized Emily
Pearse, who recently retired as Lee
Chapel’s principal docent. He said
that Pearse, who also was absent due
to illness, “has contributed as much
as anyone I know to the creation of a
living legacy from the life, the
character and the values of Robert

Founders’ Day was established by
the Board of Trustees in 1870 to
celebrate the contributions of Lee
and George Washington to the Uni-

companies, he added, find éxactly
the type of graduates they’re looking
for.

“Alcoa will be coming here,’’ he
said. ‘‘They require a steady flow of
young technical and non-technical
types — that’s what we offer.”

Bredin and Kayser said the loca-
tion of the company will determine
the availability and salaries of jobs
for college graduates. Kayser said
growth areas include the Boston
region and states such as California,
Texas and Florida.

The Michigan State report predict-
ed average starting salaries would
rise 2 percent, to $21,601, for
graduates with bachelor’s degrees.

Cappeto said that not all the
recruiters who visit W&L are from
businesses, as is popularly believed.
Some are from organizations such as
the Central Intelligence Agency and
the Peace Corps.

“We are not a placement office for
the ‘C-School,’ ’’ he emphasized.

Cappeto said the personal inter-
view is crucial. The student should
learn as much about the company
before the interview to be able to talk
intelligently with the interviewers,
Cappeto said.

versity. Monday’s ceremony fell
coincidentally on the new national
holiday honoring the Rev. Martin
Luther King. The day is a state holi-
day in Virginia in honor of Lee, King
and Stonewall Jackson.

Religion Professor David W.
Sprunt received ODK’s first faculty
award for his three decades of ser-
vice as secretary of the organization.

Senior David Lewis of Richmond,
president of the W&L ODK circle,
conducted the ‘tapping’? ceremony
for the 30 initiates. Inducted were
five juniors, 14 seniors, seven third-
year law students and four honorary
initiates:

Juniors; Joe Krastel, Phi Kappa
Psi vice president and dormitory
counselor; Shayam Menon, Ex-
ecutive Committee representative,
Kathekon, Student Recruitment
Committee and dorm counselor;
Corky Parkinson, Kathekon, Student
Activities Board, soccer and lacrosse
teams and dorm counselor ;

Steven Pockrass, cross country,
track and wrestling teams and Su-

perdance Steering Committee; and
Jon Thornton, football team quarter-
back, Ring-tum Phi reporter, Acade-
mic All-American and Glee Club.

Seniors: Larry Anker, wrestling
captain; John-Paul Bouffard,
Rhodes Scholar finalist and Glee
Club president; Alex Castelli, Phi
Gamma Delta president and football
captain; Tim Janyska, football team
and dorm counselor; Chris John;
lacrosse captain and former Sigma
Nu president.

Ken Lindeman, Southern Comfort,
ROTC and dorm counselor; Tom
Mack, head dorm counselor, baseball
captain and Student Affairs Commit-
tee chairman; Cerky Mauzy, ski
team founder, Fellowship of Chris-
tian Athletes vice president and
dorm counselor;

Townes Pressler, class president
for four years, Student Control Com-
mittee chairman and Kathekon;
Mike Stachura, sports editor of The
Ring-tum Phi and the Calyx; Sam
Svalina, Interfraternity Council rush
chairman;

Sandy Whann, Student Recruit-

ment Committee chairman, Kathe-
kon and Superdance co-chairman,
Greg Wheeler, Pi Kappa Alpha presi-
dent, Interfraternity Council vice
president and golf captain; and
Reade Williams, managing editor of
The Ring-tum Phi and The Washing-
ton and Lee Political Review and Col-
lege Republican treasurer.

Third-year law students: Lee
Doane, Notes and Comments editor
of the Washington and Lee Law Re-
view; Stokely Caldwell, Washington
and Lee Law News and Law Review;
Michael McLauglin, Burks Scholar
and American Jurisprudence
Award;

Daniel Shaver, Law Review editor-
in-chief and U.S. Army Captain;
Lynn Suter, Law Review; Barbara
Taylor, Law Review. lead articles
editor; and Donald Williams, Law
News and Law Review research
editor.

Honorary initiates: Mabel S. Bar-
ritt, a Lexington church and com-
munity volunteer; Richard A.
Denny, a 1952 W&L graduate and

 

 

 

JOHN D. WILSON

Atlanta attorney; James Louis Rowe
Jr., a 1918 graduate and retired
chemist who served as a missionary
in China; and Richard W. Smith, a
1941 graduate and retired Staunton
attorney.

Interviewing season begins for W&L’s placement office

seniors.

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Several upcoming programs are being offered
by the Office of Career Developinent and Place-
ment to help seniors in their job searches, place-
ment consultant Stephen P. Bredin said.

Presently, the office is involved in coordinating
company recruiting of seniors. Bredin said that
about 50 to 55 companies are coming to interview

 

Two new companies will be coming in March, he
said. They are Manor Care, the fourth-largest
health care provider in the United States, and
Alcoa Aluminum Company of America.

He added that Washington and Lee has ‘‘concen-
trated much more on companies with ties to
Europe,” than Asia or Africa.

Recruiting of seniors also occurs outside the
placement office. “There are a number of faculty

This represents an early listing of recruiters. Please Dean Witter Feb. 13
check the office for additions to the schedule: Navy Supply Corps Feb. 13
Bell Atlantic Feb. 13
Trust Company of Georgia Jan, 28 Guest Quarters Feb. 26
NeNeil Consumer Products Jan, 28 Central Intelligence Agency Feb. 27
Sovran Bank Jan. 30 The Peace Corps Feb. 27
Aetna Group Division Jan. 31
Westvaco Group Session March3
Westvaco March 4
Kayser-Roth Feb. 4 NCR March 4
Barnett Bank Feb. 6 K-Mart March6
Lord & Taylor Feb. 6 Milliken March 20
Wachovia Bank Feb. 7 Northwest Mutual Life March 21
First Union Bank Feb. 10
North Carolina National Bank Feb. 11 Hertz April 2
Newport News Shipbuilding Feb. 11 Merck, Sharpe & Dothne TBA
Stouffer’s Feb. 11 FDIC TBA
First Jersey Securities Feb. 12 Alcoa TBA

beginning to call on contacts within other com.
panies to recommend that some of their students
be interviewed,” Bredin said.

Also, the placement office will offer a workshop
on summer job-hunting techniques Feb. 12 at 3
p.m. It will include the preparation of resumes
and cover letters and summer job opportunities in
the federal government. Lists of companies in-
terested in employing people for the summer will
be provided.

Dae eee

 

 

 

 

 

UR URBE RO O O R E  H

Glasses - Contacts - Repairs
We Fill All Prescriptions: ~~~

THE NEW OPTICIANS INC.

Lexington'’s ONLY Licensed Optician

- ea et A

j Manic: Hain Siylers

By Appointment 463-9588 Old Main St. Mall
: Robin« Peggy «Marie Lexington, VA 24450 i
<a OGRE OO -REP GENS 0 SE) CM AED) EDO ce a a

Friday, 4-7 P.M.

LIVE-ON STAGE
THE WLUR

—_The rey | DISC JOCKEYS

A “Spring Break’’ Welcome To
Washington and Lee
University Students

<ai> (>
>.) a

at
Venetian Court Apartments
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301
Heated Pool * Lawns * Cable TV * BBQ * Parking
Good Rates for Apts., Efficiencies,
Hotel Rooms

 

203 N. Main College Square
463-7440 In March

BEER R ERR E EERE ER BENE R ERE E RAE R AEE BEER RRR R RRR E ERE

tote tote tote te te te tet te tek te te te hk
SOO iO OOOO toto tet tot toto t te

 

Piedmont’s having a_ winter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sale to fit in with your Fancy || WILLSON-
SS cheats BROADCASTING
Fly a friend to Roanoke for in- sa OL FROM
credibly low rates. HOUSE mi GENERAL

Reservations needed at least — as
30 days in advance : (83 HO

See us now for details. nee “ee |

$ $ $ $ 12:00-2:30 Vig DoU a

 

 

 

Don't forget...Spring Break
just around the corner.

463-2197 41S. Main

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday.

ST. THOMAS
UNIVERSITY

RE
St Thomas of Villanova, 1487-1555
_—_——

SCHOOL OF LAW

on

 

30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

A Year of Comparative Study
and World Travel

 

 

 

 

St. Thomas University School of Law is a newly estab-
lished Catholic law school, and is accepting applica-
tions for admission for academic year 1986/1987,

Tne only Catholic law school in the Southeast, St.
Thomas is ideally located in suburban Miami on a 140-
acre campus. The Schoo! of Law offers a three-year, full-
time program, with one of the most highly computerized
and technologically sophisticated law libraries in
American legal education. St. Thomas also offers an
experienced faculty, and a student/ faculty ratio of 20 to
1, for a most favorable learning environment.

Presently, St. Thomas University School of Law is not
accredited by the American Bar Association: however
St. Thomas University School of Law intends to seek ABA

provisional approval as quickly as possible, which will be
after the first year of teaching. The Dean has informed
himseif fully as fo the Standards and Rules of Procedure
for the Approval of Law Schools by the ABA. The
University Administration and the Dean are determined
to devote all necessary resources and in other respects
to take all necessary steps fo present a program of legal
education that will qualify for approval by the ABA The
Schoo! of Law makes no representation to any applicant
that it will be approved by the ABA prior to the
graduation of any matriculating student
For more information write of call: Offic issi
St. Thomas University Schoo! of Law, T6400 NW Sone '
Avenue, Miami, FL 33054. (305) 623-2310.

Film, Television and Social Change:
Cambridge, London, Rome, New Delhi, Poona, Bombay,
Chiangmai, Tokyo, Beijing, Shanghai, Hongkong, Les Angeles
Film and Politics:

London, Berlin, Paris, Rome, Rio, Buenos Aires,
Lima, Mexico City.

 

Super Bowl...
Super Dance...
Come to Caper’s
for Super Style!

September 1986 — May 1987

Faculty from Harvard, Columbia, New York University,
University of California and Indiana University

Stanley Cavell, Robert Gardner, Wm. Rothman,
Charles Warren, Cristina Szanton, Katherine Morgan,
Victor Wallis, Robert Stamm, Eric Rentschler

Perm Specials continue - $25.00
10% Off Haircuts, W&L
15% Discount
10 Session Tanning Program

/

Two academic programs limited to thirty students each

  
 
 
 

For further information
call Joan Tiffany collect: 617-267-8612
The International Honors Program
19 Braddock Park
Boston, MA 02116

FINANCIAL AID AND SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE TO

When only the best will do ALL QUALIFIED APPLICANTS.

25 N. Main
463-2566

St. Thomas University is an equal Opportunity institution

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

John-Paul Bouffard uses a laboratory animal in an experiment

W&L tests use animals

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Just taken some great medicine to
get over that nagging cold? Well, you
should probably give thanks to a

~ laboratory animal. The cure for your

illness was probably discovered with

. the help of one.

Psychology Professor Edward Jar-
rard says that ‘‘medicine wouldn’t be

* where it is today without the use of

laboratory animals in experiments.
Discoveries are continually being
made that have a direct effect on our
lives,’’ he added. The use of labora-

* tory animals help scientists under-

stand diseases, injuries and their
treatments and birth defects, and
allows people to live happier, longer
lives.

Public concern has been voiced
about the inhumane treatment of ex-
perimental animals in the lab, Jar-
rard said. He added that people
should not be concerned about this
problem at Washington and Lee

Jarrard said “‘a veterinarian each
year inspects the lab facilities, and

 

.cports his finding to the U.S. Public
Health Service in Washington, D.C.”

Careful watch is kept over such
things as the temperature and humi-
dity in the lab. “So much care is
taken to ensure that the animals are
not treated poorly, that they pro-
bably live a more comfortable life
than we do,” Jarrard said.

Rob Williamson, a sophomore bio-
logy major, is doing an experiment
that requires the use of beating frog
hearts.

Williamson said that although he
had no problem using the heart of a

living animal, ‘experiments
shouldn’t destroy any animals with-
out necessity.”’

“You can’t get around the use of
animals in experiments,” he said.
“It’s necessary to have something to
perform the experiment on, and
since we obviously can’t use humans,
we have to use animals”

Citing ‘public ethics’’ as the ra-
tionale when deciding which animals
were used in experiments, William-
son said ‘experiments with animals
should only be done for a construc-
tive use.”

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986, Page 5

Non-stop rock for MDA weekend

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

“Cotton and I aren’t very good at dancing.”

That is the reason senior Mike Stachura jokingly
gives for why he and senior Cotton Puryear are
staging a 30-hour radio rock-a-thon this weekend
in conjuction with the MDA Superdance.

The idea was conceived by Bob Halloran and
Taylor Hathaway three years ago. Stachura and
Puryear decided to do the radiothon last year,
after staying up all weekend playing music during
WLUR-FM’s ‘“‘gavel-to-gavel”’ broadcast of the
1984 Mock Convention, according to Stachura.

The two seniors offered several reasons for the
30-hour broadcast, in which dedications and re-
quests will be played for a donation to the
Muscular Dystrophy Association. “First and
foremost, it is to raise money for muscular
dystrophy,” Puryear said.

Stachura added, ‘“‘Rarely do you get something
tangible for your donation.”

Last year, the radiothon raised around $250 for
MDA, according to Stachura. The two disc
jockeys, who host Friday Morning Magazine on

 

WLUR, want to bring in even more money this
Gear ‘‘We want to raise a lot of money, I mean a
lot of money,’’ said Stachura

Money is raised by making a $1 donation for a
song request and $2 for a song dedication. But,
Puryear warned, people can ‘‘donate as much as
they like.’’

He recalled that in last year’s radiothon, ‘“‘We
had people calling us up at 5:30 in the morning
making requests.”’

The WLUR rule that keeps DJs from bringing in
their own records has been lifted for this weekend
sO more requests can be filled, according to
Stachura.

Puryear said that the two will play any style of
music requested and added, ‘‘Money talks, we
listen.”’

Stachura said that he and Puryear plan to
broadcast live at the student activities pavilion
during the Superdance. The radio show will be
simulcast on Washington and Lee’s Cable Channel
9. Between 1:30 and 5:30 Saturday afternoon, the
radiothon will be heard only on Channel 9 because
of a contract requiring the station to carry the
opera on ‘Live from the Met”’ weekly.

Stachura and Puryear will start the Superdance

 

HIGHLIGHTS

Friday, January 24

4 to 7:30 p.m. - Dancer Registration
7:30 to8 p.m. - Dancer Orientation

8 to 8:15 p.m. - Opening Ceremonies
8:15 to 10 p.m. - BAND: The Sparkplugs
10:30 to 1 a.m. - BAND: The Maxx

Saturday, January 25

11:30a.m. to 1:45 p.m. - BAND; Wildgrass
3 to 4:45 p.m. - BAND: Heinsohn and Day

8 to 9:45 p.m.- BAND; Xenon

10:15 to 1a.m, - BAND: The White Animals
1 to 1:15a.m. - Closing Ceremonies

 

 

radio marathon at 5 p.m. Friday and will continue
until 2 a.m. Sunday. WLUR broadcasts at 91.5 on
the FM dial.

People wishing to make requests can call the
Station at 463-8444 and those wishing to make
dedications can call 463-8442.

“It’s a good time for a good cause, ’ Stachura
said,

 

 

Dance

0 Continued from Page 1

drinking age will have “‘little effect’
on the intent and result of the Super-
dance program.

“People who are going to the dance
as a charitable activity will continue
to come. Those who go for a beer par-
ty will go somewhere else,’’ Cappeto
said.

Whann said he felt the new ABC
regulation will have an effect on all
pavilion events.

As in past Superdances, dancers
are soliciting pledges from individ-
uals and organizations for contribu-
tions based on the number of hours
danced. A number of prizes will be
awarded to the dancers who receive
the most pledges. First prize is a
seven-day all-expense-paid trip to St.
Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. Other
prizes include trips to New York,
Washington, D.C., and Williamsburg.

For the first time, a 1986 Honda

 

 

 

 

10% Discount

NELSON STREET SERVICENTER

FPA EAST NELSON
LE XINGGTON

STREET
VIRGINIA 24450

O34 463-3922

ns

Ir

OVERNAULING

On All Service Work

(Gas Not Included)

 

 

.

 

THE Pats

~\

7,"

101 W. Nelson St.

Lexington, Va.

=

After Friday and Saturday dancing

recover with us for Sunday Brunch

12-3:00

Brunch Guests ordering an Entree receivea
complimentary glass of Champagne,

a Bloody Mary, Screwdriver,
Mimosa, or Palms Fruit Punch
with their order.

Eggs Benedict

The Classic, served with Hollandaise sauce.

Omelette Du Jour

A preparation of three fresh eggs & our chef’s own ingredients,
served with a toasted english muffin.

Quiche Du Jour

A delicious blend of cheese, eggs & fresh cream, blended with the
chef’s own additives.

Steak and Eggs

Our house steak, grilled to order and served with two eggs (any
style) and a toasted english muffin.

Palms’ Rarebit

Toasted english muffin, topped with sliced turkey, bacon, scram-
bled eggs & a tangy cheddar cheese.

 

Civic will be raffled off.

The traditional pie-throwing event,
featuring members of the W&L facul-
ty and student body, will be featured
as well.

Whann said the money for the pie-
throwing privilege will be pooled
beforehand this year.

“That way it isn’t necessary for the
person to be there. It’s easier this
way. A person might not be able to
come, but he can still contribute,’’
said Whann.

Special Events Chairman Sam
Svalina said the pie throw this year
will include Associate Dean of the
College Pamela Simpson, Major
John D. Smith of the Military Science
department, football coach Gary Fal-
lon, Mike Allen, Executive Editor of
The Ring-tum Phi, and Student Body
President John Lewis.

Also returning this year are the
slave auctions, which raised about
$1,500 at Hollins, Sweet Briar, Mary
Baldwin and Washington and Lee
last year.

Staff Reporter Daniel Bunch con-
tributed to this story.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

A print show and sale featuring
the Frank Lyons Collection of 19th
and 20th century original prints
and photographs from America,
Japan and Europe will be held in
the W&L bookstore Feb. 5.

A panel discussion for freshman
men concerning sexuality, rela-
tionships and attitudes will be
held next Thursday at 7 p.m. in
Room 327 of the Commerce
School.

Gounod’s opera ‘‘Romeo et
Julliette” will be broadcast live
from the stage of the Metropolitan
Opera on Saturday at 1:30 p.m.
over WLUR-FM, 91.5.

The Rockbridge/Lexington
Chapter of the Archaeological
Society of Virginia will host a
speech by Dr. Michael Malpass,
visiting assistant professor of an-
thropology, on ‘‘Prehistoric
Agricultural Terraces of the Colca
Valley, Peru,”’ in Northen Audi-
torium, Jan. 29at7:30p.m.

 

FOR SALE

 

Baby ferrets for, sale. 6 weeks
old, male and female. Healthy. $50
each. Call 261-2445.

Wide Screen T.V., 54’’x40”,
$400.00 or best offer. Contact: Bill
Torrence, General Headqu?
Tavern, Ext. 463-8577.

 

Limited Offer

JFREE VACATION|

OF YOUR CHOICE

4 Days
Florida onus!

The Great North American Vacation Giveaway’
includes Four Days and Three of...

® Deluxe Oceanfront View Accommodations at Ramada’ inn Surfside or

Pirates s Cove for two Adults and two Children under 18 * Split of Cham
jai = Weicome Continental Breakfast for two * Discount

sney World

Coupons for Shows. Restaurants and Attractions # 2 Walt Di

¢ Daytona SOO, Jay Ala

 

Days in
brent. Smokies On Us!

The Great North American Vacation Giveaway
includes Three Days and Two Nights of...

* Deluxe accommodations at the Great Smokies Hitton # Split of cham

arrival # Complimentary Greens Fees « Complimentary pass

pegne wen
to The Biltmore House and Gardens ® Children occupying same room as
parents stay free
ie Nestieg high in the Appian on 120 landicaped acres. the Great Smo
I

 

 

Transportation Not included

Limited Offer

Transportation Not Included :

When you purchase any new car, truck or |
any used vehicle retailing for $2,000 or more.

 

: %
“AD
@ neue

Rate

GMAC

financing
on

Pontiac: Fieros, Sunbirds, Grand Prixs, Bonnevilles,
ana tour cylinder Pontiac 6000s.

Buick: Somersets, Skylarks, four cylinder Centurys and Regals.

Cadillac: pevities and FWD Fleetwoods.
GMC * 20r 4 wheel drive 1500 series pickups and 2 wheel

drive S15 pickups.
Renault: Alliance and Encore.

Great Vacations — Great Savings now
at Lexington Motor Sales, Inc.

 

LEXINGTON MoToR SALES

Dealer License No. 562 Franchised New Car Dealer

512 East Nelson

Phone 463-2116

 

 
SPORTS
Miles, men triumph

 

By LEIF CUELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee swim
ming Generals ended their month-
anda-half lapse in competition this
past weekend, The men’s team went
two and three for the weekend, losing
to James Madison (63-34) on Friday,
iud beating both Georgetown (62-51)
and Frostburg (70-41) on Saturday,
bringing their season record to 4-2

The women lost to both George-
town (52-23) and Frostburg (92-16) on
Saturday, bringing their team’s
record to 0-4. With only three swim-
mers on the women’s team, a win is
not within its reach, but the team
pi¢ked up two individual victories
Freshman Elizabeth Miles continued
to excel, winning both the 200- and
00-yard freestyle events

“Elizabeth had another fine perfor-
mance and seems to be right on
schedule. She swam three events
(she finished second in the 100-yard
frée) and showed she can handle all
of them,’ commented coach Page
Remillard. Miles currently leads the
nation in the 500-yard freestyle.

Though it is true that the sport of

 

Coeducation becoming a trend;
woman skates with Hockey Club

swimming has become amazingly
technical over the past 10 years, it
was a more old-fashioneed, less con
crete aspect of competition that earn
ed the Generals wins over George
town and Frostburg on Saturday; it
was mental toughness

Going in to Saturday's meet, the
men's team's health was faltering
Neither freshman Mathew Brady nor
freshman Jeff Berkaw were able to
compete. Senior co-captain Tim
Stanford, freshman Dave Reavy, and
freshman David Dietz were also sick,
though they did compete

As a result of the team’s illnesses,
they knew that they would be weak in
the sprints. Not wanting their op
ponents to know of their ailing health,
the team decided to go after an early
lead to make their opponents think
they had no chance.

Freshman Tom Rawls commented
on the team's strategy: **We went out
with the attitude that we were going
to win and that the other teams
(Georgetown and Frostburg) would
compete for second.”’

The strategy apparently worked
for the Generals because by the div-
ing competition, W&L led both op-
ponents by more than 20 points

Though Georgetown eventually saw
through the Generals’ move, it was
too late for the Hoyas to change gears
and too late for their best swimmers
to get pumped up for the last-minute
all-out attack

Crucial performances in W&L’'s
wounded victory include Rawls’ two
second-place finished in the 500- and
1000-yard freestyle. Chris Hope also
had strong swims, Remillard said

“Tom Rawls and Chris Hope did
real well. They came through with
performances when we could not af-
ford for them to have an off day, and
they were right there,’ Remillard
said

Next week, W&L will host powerful
Towson State on Saturday in Twom-
bly Pool at 1 p.m. With some of the
men recovering from illness and
others now getting sick, the Generals
are in a tough position at this crucial
juncture in the season. Remillard
points out that, while the team may
get lucky in that their sprinters are
just recovering as they go up against
Towson, whose strength is not in the
sprint, they will, nonetheless, have a
very tough meet.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

 

 

asad

   

By Steve Sadler/Tl.« Ring-tum Phi

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

For those of you who appreciate a little cold weather
and a lot of fun, I'd like to let you in on a little secret:
Washington and Lee has an ice hockey team.

For those of you who think a woman’s place is at most
on the sidelines, if not in the kitchen, here’s another lit-
tle secret for you: Washington and Lee has an ice
hockey team that includes a woman participaht.

Huh”

Yes, you heard right.

Monica Burke, a freshman from Yardley, Pa., is the
first female member of the W&L Hockey Club, an or-
ganization now in its fifth season. Burke, whose prior
ice hockey experience consists of two seasons on an all-
female team in high school, has nothing but good things
to say about her association with the club.

‘I wish 1 could say that there hasn't been a warm
response, but that's just not true,”’ Burke said. ‘‘We've
had one game (a win over Virginia Tech) so far and I
played just as muchas everyone else.”’

Burke added that at first she thought her role with the
club would be limited to that of a mascot, rather than as
a teammate. But she has encountered total acceptance,
which includes, interestingly enough, where she puts on
and takes off her uniform.

‘| wasn’t going to be a prima donna and ask for my
own locker room,” she said. ‘‘{Dressing with the men!
doesn’t bother me, and it doesn’t seem to bother any of
the guys.

When asked about the differences between men and
women on the ice, she said, “Girls are dirtier. They
don’t have the power and the finesse of the guys, so they
have to bea little trickier.”

Burke admits to not having quite the skills of her
teammates, a group that has toiled in relative obscurity
from its inception.

‘A lot of the University doesn't even know we exist,”
said Vin LaManna, club president.

With that lack of recognition has also come some eco-
nomic constraints. LaManna explained that a small
portion of the club's funding comes from the Executive
Committee, but that most of the expenses (transporta-
tion, equipment, ice time, etc.) come right out of the
members’ own pockets.

Things are progressing, according to LaManna, and
with the addition of Burke to the team, at least some
recognition should come the club’s way. The first game
has also helped the club’s image. W&L beat Virginia
Tech 7-6 in December to open its 1985-86 season. With _
four games slated for the rest of the year, including the
next contest Feb. 9 against Liberty University, the club
has its biggest schedule ever.

Buoyed by the bright prospects for the rest of the sea-
son, LaManna said he would like to see even more peo-
ple join the club, emphasizing its relaxed attitude.

“There is less structure and more fun,’ LaManna
said. ‘‘If we win, it’s great. If we lose, we still have a
good time.”

Such a relaxed attitude frames W&L’s only truly co-
educational team.

Jefferson Harralson (hidden) throws one up in traffic against Roanoke

Cagers top ODAC, briefly

aS
By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

 

=encers slash Keydets, raise record to 2-1

 

taff Report

 

Despite having its hopes of varsity
atus dashed again earlier this mon-
1, the Washington and Lee fencing
ub regrouped and defeated the
ncers from Virginia Military, 14-13,

 

US Arn,

EAST LEX

463-3614

to raise its record to 2-1.

“We'd like to emphasize that we're
still together and still working very
hard,”’ said Mike Berg, club presi-
dent.

The close win .was largely the
result of a 9-0 performance by the
sabre squad. Berg, Andy Tartaglione

  

Open Until Midnight

 

    

  

$712

 

Frank’s Pizza

Luncheon Special 11-3

10’ Minipizza w/1 topping........... $2.00

10’ Minipizza w/3 toppings ......... $2.50

plus
Free Drink

463-7575 or 463-3133

$1] OFF

¥

ai

, :

Large Pizza !

and Jeff Blomster paced the sabre ef-
fort by winning three bouts apiece

The fencers go on the road this
weekend for a meet in Charlottesville
with Virginia. The next home fencing
action will be Feb. 15, when W&L
hosts the state championship meet,
the Virginia Cup.

Whoever first said, ‘Fame is
fleeting,’’ must have had the ‘85-'86
W&L basketball team in mind at the
time.

The Generals, in first place since
Saturday night and flying high after
conference wins last week over
Roanoke (44-42) and Bridgewater
(58-49), were brought back down to
earth on Tuesday with a 51-50 loss at
the hands of Eastern Mennonite Col-
lege,

The Generals had a chance to win
when, down by one with 19 seconds on
the clock, Jeff Harralson took a shot
that went in and out. EMC got the re-
bound and headed down court, fore-
ing W&L to foul in order to regain
possession.

Phil Landis of EMC missed the
front end of the one-and-one, but
EMC's Leonard Dow grabbed the re-
bound. The Generals then fouled him
with only 3 seconds remaining in
another attempt to regain posses-
sion.

Dow missed the front end of his
one-and-one, and W&L grabbed the
rebound, but there wasn't enough
time to get a shot off and the
Generals tumbled from first place in
the conference.

The Generals fared a little better
last Thursday in Warner Center,
when they beat archrival Roanoke
for the first time in four years. On

E>) ED DD) SE DEED DE | EEE | GE

DD ) (DD () SD) SD () SD () SD (SD () ED ( ) ED () <()

Superdance?
Super Rock!

The MDA Superdance and
WLUR-FM combine to bring you
W&L’s Biggest Party Jan. 24-26.

While the dancers are dancing,
listen to WLUR-FM for a 30-hour
All Rock-quest Weekend. Help
MD out by making a donation
every time you make a song re-
quest. 91.5 FM, Lexington’s
Listening Alternative.

esteem Ni N-NMR! A NN AER RS

——_ <2 <-> <- «ae <a <i (<cat 6 6 GRU 6 cine 6 SEU | SEEK

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

Vion,-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

hand to witness the feat were 600-700
more or less rabid W&L fans who
were spurred on by the antics of the
infamous ‘Unknown Fans.”

“] just can't say enough about the
fans,’ commented W&L Coach
Verne Canfield. “I’ve been here 22
years and we're finally getting sup-
port.”

And, despite all this pandemonium,
W&L managed to keep its concentra-
tion and play the type of defensive
basketball that has become its
trademark.

In the opening 10 minutes of the
first half, the Generals did not allow
Roanoke a field goal, and gave up on-
ly two points from the free throw line
During the same span, the Generals
poured in 11 points, including nine by
Steve Hancock, to lead 11-2.

The Generals allowed the Maroons
to chip away slightly at the lead, but
W&L still led by 19-14 at the half.
4Yancock was the Generals’ major
c-ntributor, chipping in 13 of W&L’s
19 points.

Yet, before the second half was
four minutes old, the Generals’ five-
point advantage had turned into a
two-point deficit. Roanoke eventually
led by six with 12:30 remaining
before W&L began to come back

The defense tightened, and the
Roanoke lead began to shrink. ‘‘The
kids played great defense tonight
I'm very pleased with them,” said
Canfield. ‘‘We shook the ball loose
and only allowed one shot.”’

The Generals re-took the lead at

    

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns

the 8:50 mark and the teams traded
leads until the one-minute mark. At
that point, with the scored tied at 42,
Roanoke’s leading scorer committed
a turnover, and W&L went on ol
fense

The Generals passed the ball
around and made perfect use of the
clock, running 42 seconds off the 45
second shot clock before taking a
shot. When they did, it was a strong
move inside by Jeff Harralson that
put the Generals up by two.

Roanoke missed two shots in the
last 18 seconds, and Lee Brading
grabbed the second rebound and held
on until time ran out to seal the
Generals’ first defeat of the Maroons
in four years

Saturday night, visiting W&L beat
ODAC foe Bridgewater, 58-49. The
win put the Generals atop the con
ference until Eastern Mennonite beat
them on Tuesday. Hancock was
W&L's leading scorer in the
Bridgewater contest with 17. Har-
ralson contributed 11 points while
pulling down seven rebounds

Around the Rim... The Generals
lead the ODAC in defense. allowing
only 64.2 points per game, and tree
throw shooting, making 75.8 percent
.. in the last three games they have
limited opponents to 51.0 points per
game... Harralson leads the ODAC in
field goal percentage with 60.3 per-
cent... W&L takes on Emory & Henry
tonight in the Warner Center at 7:30
Both teams are among the leaders in
the ODAC

of Lexington
4163-1666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North_

RAAB HARBBWK

 

 

Gillie’s Ski Service
Experienceu Professional Ski Tuning
Sharpening - P-Texing - Hot Waxing
Rush Service Available - Satisfaction guaranteed

a . asp « 2

call Chris at 463-3806
Skis For Sale

180 cm. Dynastar Skis
with Step-in Salomon Bindings

good condition - must sell - best offer
163-3806

 

 

W&L Bookstore

presents the

Winter Doldrum’s Sale

Calendars
Selected Books

40% Off
1/3 to 1/2 Off

Jan. 20 to Jan, 31

 

The Josten’s Representative will be here
for Ring orders Jan. 27-28, 10-3.

 
i

)
;
y

x

 

Slim-fast?

Wrestlers say making weight is no piece of cake

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

Losing 14 pounds in seven hours sounds nearly as
dangerous as it is dramatic, but while such an oe-
currence is extreme, Washington and Lee wrestling
coach Gary Franke has seen it done.

“It” is cutting weight, or dropping so many
pounds prior to a wrestling match to be able to com-
pete at a weight division. It’s as much a part of the
sport as any move made on the mat.

“The objective i is to equal your opponent’s weight
and strength,” said Franke. Ideally, a wrestler who
wants to participate in the 142 pound division will
weigh 142 pounds. If he does not weigh 142, but his
opponent does, then he has a disadvantage going in-
to the match.

A wrestler can participate in 10 different weight
divisions ranging from the 118-pound category to
the heavyweight class. Franke said that most of his
wrestlers have to lose weight to compete in the divi-
sion they want. Depending on the match, a wrestler
has a certain amount of time to weigh in before he
competes.

For example, wrestlers could ‘weigh-in’ five
hours before their 7 p.m. match against Virginia

State yesterday. If a wrestler weighs equal to or less
than the division’s limit, then he is eligible to par-
ticipate. But if he weighs more than the division re-
quires, he can try to lose the extra weight and
weigh-in at or below the division’s requirements at
least one hour before the match

Franke said that his wrestlers have a responsibili-
ty to watch their weight. If a wrestler thinks that he
might have difficulty losing enough weight to par-
ticipate in a specific division then he should inform
Franke so he can '\se another wrestler. Only one
General has failed to weigh-in at or below his divi-
sion’s requirements this season.

“There are a lot of complications,’’ head trainer
Tom Jonés said about the proper way to lose weight.

“The big problem is dehydration.”

The Generals and Jones began weight training
last fall to avoid dehydration and other complica-
tions. Using a pinching instrument called a caliper,
Jones determined each wrestler’s body fat percen-
tage. He used the caliper to measure the fat im-
mediately under the skin at the chest, abdomen, and
thigh. The percentage of body fat is then calculated
from these measurements.

According to Jones, a person should maintain no
less than five percent of his body as fat. The body
uses this fat to supply an energy reserve, provide in-

sulation, and protect interior organs. But once a
wrestler knows his percentage of body fat, he knows
how much weight he can lose safely. For example, if
a wrestler weighs 900 pounds and has 15 percent
body fat, then he can safely lose 10 percent of his
weight or 20 pounds

Many team members use two methods to cut
weight: running and reducing calorie intake. Many
other W&L students have probably tried the same
methods, but have not achieved the same results.

Sophomore Steve Castle, who wrestled at 118
pounds last year, weighed 136 this fall. He lost 10
pounds and began this season wrestling in the 126-
pound division. Castle did not think that he was
strong enough to compete at 126 so he lost more
weight so that he could compete at 118.

Last week, Castle weighed 124 on Tuesday after-
noon and guessed that he would probably lose slight-
ly more than five pounds before the 1 p.m. weigh-in

for Wednesday's match against Duke. He said hd

would probably lose two and a half pounds at Tues
day’s practice and then lose the rest by running on
the indoor track in his sweats and reducing his
calorie intake.

“It’s difficult,” he said.

Castle made the weight and won by technical fall.

‘Grapplers bounce back with two victories

>

'

{

{

}

,

\

‘

i

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Bouncing back from their tough
loss at the hands of Duke last
Wednesday, the Washington and Lee
grapplers registered back-to-back
triumphs this week, defeating David-
son on Saturday and Virginia State
last night.

The Generals’ typically balanced
attack led them to a 42-9 victory
Saturday afternoon in the Warner
Center. Sophomore Steve Castle
(118), senior -captain Brian Lifsted
(126), senior Win Phillips (167) and

freshman Mark Robertson (158)
registered falls, while senior co-
captain Larry Anker (142) and

freshman Rich Redfoot (177) added
their decisions to the W&L tally.

The Generals likewise experienced
little difficulty in whipping Virginia
State at home, 44-12. W&L won the
first eight bouts, including match
wins by Lifsted, Anker, Phillips and
Redfoot, to secure their sixth victory
in seven outings.

The Generals will compete in the
W&L Invitational on Saturday, host-
Davidson,
Hampden-Sydney, Elon and the Uni-

ing Pfeiffer, Furman,

versity of the South.

 

‘Bowl

a

Y

 

O) Continued from Page 1

season?”’ He added that the game
might appear to be more exciting if
there were not so much pre-game

hype.

But hype is as much a part of any
Super Bow! as the football itself, and
this year’s showdown is especially in-

* teresting because of the unique

characters of the two teams. The
Bears, who are making their first ap-
pearance in the Super Bowl, have

# made as many commercials and

rock videos as they havetouchdowns.
Their lineup includes a 300-pound

« lineman/running back/receiver, a

quarterback who defies his coach,
the league’s commissioner and logic,
and what most in the know have cail-
ed Prior to this weekend — the best
running back never to make it to the
+ Super Bowl, Walter Payton

» “Treally respect that Payton guy,’
, said W&L head football coach Gary
Fallon. ‘I'd really like to see him win
‘ that Super Bowl.”
, Fallon’s running back agreed.
“T’ve been pulling for Walter Payton
‘He is a great runner and a great
« athlete,’ Weaver said.
The Patriots have garnered their
* share of a following over the last few
2 weeks, too. They are the first team
ever to win three consecutive road

nite , Front Ma) i

167. Main St St
———

 

 

 

Kevin McNamara works down his Davidson opponent on Saturday

games in the playoffs on their way to
the Super Bowl. In fact, before thia
year they had never won a playoff
game. It is that underdog status that
has attracted many fans.

“It’s exciting to watch a team that
is supposed to lose but wins,”’ said
Sydney Marthinson, a junior dorm
counselor. Marthinson cheered for
the Washington Redskins during the
regular season, but has supported the
Patriots during the playoffs.

The Bears’ favored status seems to
be holding form at W&L, however.
The Ninth Annual Evans Dining Hall
Super Bow] Contest bears this trend
out. Only eight of 37 entrants have
sided with the Patriots.

Fallon said that if he were a betting
man, then he would put his money on
the Patriots. He said he believes the
Patriots can beat the spread and that
the injury-riddled McMahon might
suffer an injury that will take him out
of the game

The coach jokingly added how-
ever,’ ‘“‘He will probably have the
greatest game of his life.’

But even some Patriot fans are
picking the Bears. Berents, who ex-
pects the Bears to win on Sunday, ex-
plains the New England fna’s at-
titude: ‘‘The Patriots and the Red
Sox are the same. We don’t think that
they are going to win but we hope
that they do.”’

He added that with the Patriots,
however, ‘ he had been “proven
wrong to my satisfaction.”’

er eo
167 S. Main St., 463-3106
Stop by and open up a
charge account for all
your grocery needs. We

#63.3105

even send bills home,
if you like!
We are a supporter of the MD
Superdance. Come out and help
those who need your help.

 

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

 

 

 

Watching the game, W&L style

Super Bow! fans who have not already made plans to watch the
game will not have to search very long to find the party atmosphere.
The General Headquarters will have three wide screen TVs set up.
Many specials are slated on the menu before and during the champion-
ship game.

Complementing a Happy Hour that begins at 5 p.m. and continues
until the game’s end, the tavern will have specials on cheeseburgers
and on the veal cutlet dinner. Fans will also find free popcorn.

Other people have made plans around the Super Bowl. Evans Dining
Hall will serve Sunday dinner form 4:45 to 5:15 sharp so that its
employees will be able to watch most of the game. Students on the
meal plan who prefer to have a box dinner instead of eating in Evans
may sign up to have a box dinner by Friday at 1 p.m.

And for those looking for pre-game analysis of the Super Bowl,
WLUR-FM (91.5) will present a special edition of the weekly radio
show, “SportsTalk,’’ on Sunday at 4 p.m.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986, Page 7

ee ey

Back to fun

..There was something special
about what happened in the Warner
Center Thursday evening, some-
thing that went beyond — but per-
haps occurred because of — the ath-
letic heroics that took place on the

 

TIME
OUT....

 

 

 

‘3 ; gym floor.
; a — I’m talking about a return to the
ee days when a rivalry was, above

 

everything else, fun.

The Ronaoke-W&L game has been, for most of my years at W&L, a
very ugly sort of thing. Ugly, because supporters of either side were as
quick to use a four-letter word to attack an opposing player as they
were to cheer for one of their own. Indeed, it was my freshman year
when the headline in The Phi after the Roanoke-W&L lacrosse game
went like this: ‘Management downs employees, 10-9,’’ And it was lac-
ed with a little less humor and a little more spite.

Walking into the Warner Center on Thursday night, I expected to see
more of the same. More expletive deleted’s directed at Roanoke head
coach Ed Green. More unmentionable references to the social prac-
tices of the Ronaoke cheering squad. More unmentionable references
by the Roanoke fans regarding the sexual preferences of W&L
gentlemen. In essence, commentary that had little connection with
supporting the efforts of either squad.

Thursday night, there was no bad taste in my mouth. No temptation
to shout, ‘‘Stop acting like children.’’ Now, while the behavior was not
exemplary, it was fun. The taunts that went back and forth did not
result in violence as it occasionally had in the past. Quite the contrary.
What resulted was laughter, an admission from the subjects of the jeer
that, ‘‘Hey, that was a good one.”’

This all may seem quite hokey to some of you, but the truth of the
matter is that when people cheered Thursday night it usually was for
somebody rather than against somebody. And that is a good thing.

In the end, it was a mutual appreciation of a good game. And that’s
what fan support is all about. It is good again to be as proud of W&L
fans as I am of W&L athletes...

...Back at the Colonnade, the Generals’ hoopsters are on a tear.
Seems to me I recall a certain ODAC preseason poll that put the
Generals seventh. Apparently, the Generals don’t remember the poll
in ro.

An update on the NCAA’s new 700 rule,courtesy the Dallas
Herald- Examiner: 48 of 114 Southern Methodist football players
scored less than 700 on the SAT. So much for being the Harvard of the
South...

...And finally the moment has come for me to put the kiss of death
on either the Patriots or Bears. Who will it be? Everybody and his
sister knows the Bears have every advantage imagineable coming in-
to this weekend’s contest. But I’m wondering about Bears’ quarter-
back Jim McMahon and his acupuncturist, though. But to tell the
truth, I think I’m just looking for an excuse not to pick Chicago. Can’t
find a valid one, however; Chicago 17, New England 3. I hope I’m
wrong....

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

John V. = a

 
  
   

j.v. °Y:
Victory was
in the ‘bag

Ay

 

 

 

 

Campus Music

formerly Campus Shop

117 W. Nelson St.
463-4544

TDK SA90 reg. 33.10 now $2.05

Maxell XLII 90 Reg. $3.78
now $2.39

 

   

Chinese and
American Cuisine

 
 

- Exotic Cocktails
ALOKA WOK Carry-out Service
409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24480 Available
Leas 1 Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

 

 

FOR ALL YOUR PRINTING NEEDS

Oualite Quick Print, Ink.

107 NORTH MAIN STREET LEXINGTON. VA 24450

TOM RAISBECK, PROPRIETOR

January White Sale

Copies 6°

 

 

 

 

 

jek, Yi hiee~F iiss

Good Luck

Superdance
Participants!

Hope you make it!

165 South Main St. 463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

Travel Unlimited

Don’t Delay

Make Plans
For Winter Break

This Week!

21 W. Washington St.
463-7174

Services are Free

 

Sea Sa EAE a SE aid

 

 
 

“BACK PAGE

 

 

 

For my next selection...

Junior Robert Allen Vienneau performs a solo piano
recital for a packed Lee Chapel crowd Tuesday night.
who performed works by Bach and Chopin,

Vienneau

 
 

continuing — his

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

has studied with Canadian pianist Irving Heller and is
studies in
Gaylard. The recital was Vienneau’s third in three years.

Lexington with Timothy

‘Lysistrata’ cast selected for stage

 

Staff Report

 

The Washington and Lee drama
department has announced the full
cast for its fifth production of the
year, “Lysistrata.” The play is set in
Athens in 411 B.C. and concerns the
women of Greece who have barricad-
ed themselves from their husbands
(and their beds) to try to put a stop to
the Peluponnesian War.

Heading the cast as Lysistrata, the
leader of the anti-war movement, is
Associate Dean of the College Pame-
la Simpson. Her next-door neighbor
and cohort in the movement, Kleo-

nike, is played by freshman Jennifer
Wise.

In other roles are freshman Susan
Crouse as Myrrhine: senior Mark
McConough as her husband, Kines-
ias; and freshman Lisabeth Fowler
as Limpito, the leader of the Spartan
delegation.

Taking the stage as leader of the
men’s chorus is senior Dave Marsh
and the men’s chorus is composed of
senior Chris Gorman, James Lea-
sure and freshman John Boller. The
leader of the women’s chorus is
played by junior Valerie Kochey with
Rita Leasure, freshman Sandra
Boozer and freshman Delia Ford
playing the parts of the women’s
chorus. Senior Chris Carmouche, a
familiar face to theater goers, por
trays the Commissioner

   

  
 

Redken

  

Mon.-Fri.

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Shopping Mall

Featuring Homemade Soups
DAILY
Homemade Tuna, Chicken & Egg Salad Too!
Please Call 463-2595
for your TOGO ORDER

—_——""s™
eorge’s Hairstylist

since 1963

 

Walk in or phone for appointment

      
       
 
     
  
 

   

Nexus

  
   

463-3975

  

 

(Pre-ott-so)

ticipating Pizza Hut®

 

 

Wednesday night buffet
5:30-8:30 p.m.
$3.49

Pri-4z-zO

youll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzorw Italian pie in
one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

Other cast members are freshman
Joe Caccamo, freshman Tony De-
Martino, junior Tyler Carr and soph-
omore Stu Geisel as the four police-
men, freshman Ellen Sigler as the
Korinthian woman; freshman Mar-
tha Christian as the Boiotian woman,
and freshman Katherine Nelligan as
a Peloponnesian woman. John Boller
again is seen as a Spartan Herald and
Junior Greg Lunsford as the Spartan
Ambassador.

“Lysistrata” will be playing Feb.
7-12 at the University Theatre, with
shows at 8 each evening except for a
Sunday matinee at 3 p.m. The box of-
fice will open Feb. 3 and close Feb.
12. For more information, call the
Theatre Office at 463-8637.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

Lloyd’s gets thumbs up
after beers go bottoms up

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

Deep within the heart of the
Washington and Lee savant, the
name invokes a love/hate relation-
ship that even Freud wouldn’t like to
tackle. Since its inception in 1982,
Lloyd's has become a required stop
for the late-night partygoer or study-
monger. The W&L sophisticate, wise
in the ways of chow, will denounce
Lloyd’s in the morning and blissfully
gorge there 12 hours later. Wishing to
unlock the mysteries of this bizarre
chow phenomenon, we _ entered
Lloyd’s with stomachs empty and
wallets full.

Not wanting to leave any stone un-
turned, we decided to test the entire
lunch and dinner menu. While Walt
Devine, our Quality Control Officer,
gave our order to an amazed cashier,
we surveyed our surroundings.

The first wave of our food arrived
and we eagerly dug in. Jamie had
mixed feelings about his Big Quarter
hamburger. The meat tasted good,
but it was not very hot and the beef
was of questionable origin. Lloyd is
not skimpy on his condiments,
though, so the hamburger was quite
filling and a reasonable substitute for
anything McDonald’s might have.
(Let’s hope William Perry doesn’t
read this. )

Chris had some complaints about
his Bacon Cheeseburger. Firstly, the
bacon proved a bit too crisp. Normal-
ly this would not be a big problem;
however, we had a sneaky suspicion
that it had been that crisp for the past
10 hours. Chris also noted that Lloyd
had not yet perfected the art of melt-
ed cheese. In other words, it was
cold. We would soon find that this
trend toward lukewarm food would
continue throughout the review.

Two darkhorses on the menu were
the soup and the chili. The soup was a
mish-mash of vegetables and meats.
The customer gets lots of soup for the
money — probably more than he will

 

 

115 S$. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

’% Off

Winter
Clearance Sale

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

ARR I ORR ROR
Campus Rep

National College Marketing
Company seeks individual
or campus group to work
part-time assisting students
in applying for credit cards.
Flexible hours. Excellent
pay, full training, meet
students and have fun.

Call Sharon Grand
1-800-592-2121

 

 

Thank you
Mr. Zola,

for justifying our

confidence.
FF'V, A Partnership,
Brownsburg, Virginia

William Miller Cooper, IV

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your

head for

my business.

Markham S. Pyle

C. Bradford Stengel

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

be willing to eat. Unfortunately a
large percentage of the soup is
grease, so much so that our handy
Ring-tum Phi Greasometer overload-
ed and blew up. Jamie suggested that
a match be applied and we would
have an interesting flambe. This
soup may also be helpful if you run
out of Crisco. We suggest, though,
that the faint of heart not attempt
this. Like Chunky soup, we weren't
sure whether to eat it with a spoon,
fork or nuclear disposal unit

The chili, on the other hand, was
pretty good. It was thick, with a
healthy helping of meat. (Note: The
helping was healthy. We're still not
sure about the meat itself.)

Probably the biggest surprise of
the evening was the fries. They were
big and with just the right amount of
salt, but they weren’t very warm,
which is a must for good fries. We
weren't sure if this batch was a fluke
or not. The onion rings caused some
controversy. Jamie thought they
were delicious, but Chris thought
they were practically inedible.

If you plan on ordering the taco,
you better tell them to hold every-
thing except the lettuce. It was
soggy, cold and generally uninspir-
ing. Save your money.

And last we came to the chili dog.
We drew straws and it was decided
that Walter, our hapless Q.C.O.,
would try it. With a look of terror in
his eyes, Walt opened the styrofoam
box and brought forth the chili dog.
Hand trembling, he brought it
towards his mouth. ‘‘No, Walt, don’t
do it!’’ Chris yelled. Jamie bravely
volunteered to do the dirty deed.

Jamie stared at the hot dog. He
turned it around, but the other side
was no better. Taking off his glasses
so as to blur his vision, he opened his
mouth and bit into the mystery meat.
Ceremoniously, he proceeded to open
the coffin-like box and wrote
“R.L.P.” on top. It wasn’t until days
later that Jamie could recount his ex-
perience. Mathematically, it was the
equivalent of eating a null set.

After this meal we sat and thought

about our predicament. We still could
not explain the mysterious allure of
Lloyd’s food. But then it came to us.
There are two kinds of people who eat
at Lloyds: the sober and the not-so-
sober. Our mission was clear. Dis-
tasteful as it appeared, we would
have to come back later that night as
some of the not-so-sober, in order to
get a full understanding.

Although it was Sunday evening,
duty called, and we rushed to Kroger
to purchase enough beer and malt li-
quor to ensure that our buzz would
carefully re-create the state of mind
of the average W&L partier.

Sometime between 4 and 5 a.m. we
strolled into Lloyd’s with a buzz
beyond our wildest expectations.. We
ordered our food and were hypnoti-
cally drawn into the flashing, buzzing
game room. A word to the wise: be-
ware of the ‘‘Gauntlet’’ game. You
will find yourself pouring your entire
life savings into it, one quarter at a
time. Only the arrival of our food sav-
ed us from this fate.

As we began to eat, it all became
clear to us. The food was five star!
The best we had ever eaten. Walter’s
bacon cheeseburger was divine.
Jamie discovered that the Chicken
Filet ‘‘fulfilled my life.’’ The Fish-
burger tasted like it had jumped out
of the ocean and onto Lloyd’s grill
and the cheeseburger was like a filet
mignon. Most satisfying were the
fries, which were inhaled in a man-
ner that might be deemed unnatural.

Somehow, Lloyd's has perfected
the art of making food that tastes ex-
quisite after a few beers. This, com-
bined with its being open 24 hours,
makes for big late-night business.
Does this mean that you should avoid
Lloyd’s without a buzz? No. You sim-
ply need to avoid some of the less-
desirable items. Even with stomachs
and brains paying the price the day
after, we can still recommend
Lloyd’s to the W&L gentleman or
lady who has a little money to blow.

Why?

Well,
say....

sometimes you just gotta

HO-FICE

CONNECTIONS UNLIMITED

is under new Ownership

CA LE

DEAVERS ALLEY BUSINESS SERVICES

463-9455 OR 463-5119

Our typing is WORDPERFECT”

 

University Florist
Wishes The MDA

Superdance

The Best of Luck

15 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Va.

463-6080

Mon.-Sat.7
8:30-5:00

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@® Wine®@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

 

4

en Oe ae em

a” Yee

ce «2 @ Pe 8 @>.24

*

.™ 4

cl

-— - Mh
